# PROCESS FOR COATING INORGANIC PARTICLES WITH CONDENSATION POLYMERS

## Claims
Verfahren zum Anbringen von Umhüllungen aus Polykondensaten auf anorganischen Teilchen durch Polymerisation eines Monomeren, das im Beisein der genannten anorganischen Teilchen zu einem Polykondensat polymerisiert werden kann, wobei dieses Verfahren die nachfolgenden Verfahrensschritte aufweist

## Description
This invention relates to a process for the production of coatings of condensation polymers on inorganic particles. Bentley et al, United States Patent US A 4,102,846, teaches a process for providing coatings of polymeric materials on inorganic particles, for example titanium dioxide, in which a stable dispersion is prepared by mixing together with the inorganic particles, in an inert organic liquid, particles consisting of a monomer which is insoluble in the organic liquid. Included in this dispersion is a dispersing agent that is soluble in the organic liquid and in which dispersing agent both the soluble part and the part that attaches to the particles are polymeric in character. This patent also teaches that the dispersion containing the ingredients is heated at the polymerization temperature to form thereby coatings of the polymer on the inorganic particles. This patent further shows that the process as disclosed may be employed for the polymerization of various condensation and addition polymers such as polyesters, polycarbonates, polyamides and polyureas. In Example 1, column 12 of this patent, a specific example illustrating the process of this patent, a mixture of an aliphatic hydrocarbon of a boiling range of 170 to 210 C, 11 aminoundecanoic acid and titanium dioxide of a particle size of 0.2µm is ground together with a graft copolymer dispersant solution. According to this example, after the charge is ground together in a ball mill to produce a dispersion having a mean particle size of about 1µm, the resultant dispersion is heated under reflux to 170 C 183 C. As a result a dispersion is obtained containing particles of titanium dioxide encapsulated with Nylon 11 polymer with some of the Nylon 11 polymer being unassociated with the titanium dioxide particles. It has been found that the process of this patent has the following defects A principal object of this invention is to provide an improved process for the coating of inorganic particles with condensation polymers, in which the product consists mainly of polymer particles which particles contain one or a few pigment particles, and essentially no large aggregates and pigment free particles. Another principal object of this invention is to provide a method of coating inorganic particles with condensation polymers in which the thickness of the coating can be adjusted through the quantity of monomer added. According to the invention, applicants have found that these objects may be achieved by use of a novel process in which two separate stable suspensions are formed, one of these suspensions being that of a solid monomer, capable of being polymerized to a condensation polymer when heated, in an organic liquid, provided with a dispersing agent that is stable at the polymerization temperature in the presence of the monomer and of the by product s of the polymerization, the other suspension being of finely divided inorganic particles in an organic liquid, this suspension also being provided with a dispersing agent that is stable under the conditions of the polymerization of the monomer. Further, according to this novel process the suspension of the solid monomer is added to the suspension of the inorganic particles, while the latter suspension is heated to the polymerization temperature of the monomer, this addition being carried out at a rate such that the solubility limit of the monomer in the heated suspension of the inorganic particles is never exceeded. Quite unexpectedly, it has been found that by employing the process of the invention it is possible to obtain a product that consists mainly of separately encapsulated inorganic particles and only minor quantitites of pigment free particles and aggregated material. Additionally, with this process it was found possible to control the thickness of the polymeric coating on the inorganic particles. While satisfactory results are obtained with the use of various dispersing agents, it has been found that particularly good results are achieved when the dispersing agent consists of a long chain polybutene or polyisobutylene to which anchor and linking groups have been attached The process of the invention is useful for providing polymeric coatings on various inorganic particles such as filler materials, conductive materials and pigments including those particularly adapted for modifying the electrical or magnetic properties of the final products such as polymer coated metal particles, barium titanates and similar materials. The process is particularly adapted for the preparation of polymer coated inorganic pigments. Such pigments are particularly useful in the paint, textile and paper industries. Another important use for such coated pigments is as the pigments in electrophoretic display devices, as they provide the possibility to match the density of the pigment to the density of the dispersing medium. An example of coated pigments particularly adapted for such use are the Nylon 11 encapsulated titanium dioxide particles. While it has been found that long chain polybutenes or polyisobutylenes to which anchor groups and linking groups are attached and in which carbon to carbon double bonds are halogenated are highly useful dispersing agents in the instant process, it has been found that particularly good results are achieved when the dispersing agent is the reaction product of a polybutene of a molecular weight of 1000 10 000 and malaic anhydride imidized at least in part by an aliphatic amine. This bromination of the double bonds tends to prevent high temperature degradation of the dispersing agent. Examples of suitable amines are ethylenediamine, diethylene triamine and tetraethylene pentamine. It has been found that a particularly use ful example of the preferred class of dispersing agents is the crankcase oil dispersant Amoco 9250 sold by Amoco, Inc. This latter dispersing agent has been found to be particularly useful when the solid monomer is 11 aminoundecanoic acid. While, as the liquid solvent, any organic liquid with sufficiently high voiling point that is inert to the monomer at the reaction conditions may be used, it has been found that best results are achieved with high boiling liquid aliphatic or aromatic hydrocarbons having a boiling point of at least 165 C, specific examples of which are Decalin , odorless kerosene with boiling point 175 200 C such as Shellsol T sold by the Shell Oil Co. and Isopar H sold by Exxon. Preferably, the liquid solvent is a mixture of a liquid aliphatic hydrocarbon and 4 10 by volume of a liquid aromatic hydrocarbon. While the process of the invention may be used for the production of any polymer coated pigment particles such as that of the condensation and addition polymers such as polyesters, polyamides, polyurethanes, and polyureas it is particularly useful in the production of polyamide coated pigment particles. For a more complete understanding the invention will now be described with reference to the following specific example. The following suspensions were prepared by ball milling As the suspensing medium liquid odorless mineral spirits with a boiling range of 175 200 C was employed in each case. A 250 milliliter flask equipped with a Dean and Stark head plus a cooler, a stirrer and a nitrogen inlet was charged with The contents of the flask were then heated to 195 C and to this boiling and refluxing suspension, 25 mls of Suspension B were added in the course of 40 minutes while the contents of the flask were continously stirred. After the last addition, the flask was rapidly cooled. It was found that the flask contained a stable suspension of Nylon 11 encapsulated titanium dioxide particles with a narrow size range.