# Method and apparatus for implementing a thermodynamic cycle using a fluid of changing concentration.

## Abstract
A method and apparatus 10 for implementing a ther modynamic cycle involves utilizing partial distillation of a multi component working fluid stream. At least one main enriched solution is produced which is relatively enriched with respect to the lower boiling temperature component, together with at least one lean solution which is relatively impoverished with the respect of lower boiling temperature component. The main working fluid is expanded 104 to a low pressure level to con vert energy to a usable form. This spent low pressure level working fluid is condensed 126 by dissolving with cooling 106 in the lean solution to regenerate an initial working fluid 1 to reuse. A portion of the impoverished fraction may be in jected 139 into the charged gaseous main working fluid in or der to obtain added work and to increase system efficiency by decreasing the temperature of the output fluid flow when the fluid flow would otherwise have been superheated. A low pres sure, low temperature expanded spent fluid may be distilled using low quality heat to create an enriched solution which has a significantly higher concentration of the lower boiling compo nent. For this enriched solution, a reduced temperature and pressure is sufficient to enable distillation. The efficiency of the cycle may be enhanced by charging 120 the spent fluid with the lower boiling temperature component prior to distillation. This may be accomplished by lowering the pressure of the im poverished fraction to separate 118 an additional lower boil ing temperature fraction.