# Closure device particularly for rear entrance ski boots.

## Abstract
The closure device comprises a lever 1 having a recessed area 10 , being articulated on the rear portion of a ski boot rear quarter 2 and oscillable about a substantially perpendicular axis with respect to the longitudinal extension of the rear quarter 2 and the shell. To said lever 1 there being slidably connected a block 11 releasably securable on preset points of said lever 1 and being associated with at least one cable 12 having a fixed point on the boot s front quarter 2 , and at least partially accommodated in the recessed area 10 .

## Claims
1. A closure device particularly for rear entrance ski boots, characterized in that it comprises a lever articulated to the rear portion of a ski boot rear quarter and being oscillable about a substantially perpendicular axis to the longitudinal direction of said rear quarter and the shell, to said lever there being slidably connected a block, releasably securable on preset points of said lever and being associated with at least one cable having at least one fixed point on the front quarter of said boot.

## Description
This invention relates to a closure device particularly for rear entrance ski boots. As is known, to close or fasten on ski boots, and especially rear entrance ski boots, i.e. to tighten the boot front quarter and rear quarter together, levers have been used which are arranged transversely to the longitudinal direction of the quarters and comprise a body associated with either the interior or the exterior of the front quarter which a small cable or link is hooked which is attached to the lever. The bodies currently employed are generally a design which protrudes outwardly and may be caught or hit when skiing, to result in the lever being accidentally released. Furthermore, rear entrance ski boots generally utilize two such closure levers, located at different elevations, which must be operated separately and progressively if a proper closure is to be attained. It thus occurs, with the prior art approach, that the boot may be occasionally difficult and slow to close, and that the user is to lean down to operate the levers, thus assuming a position which is very inconvenient. It is the aim of this invention to overcome such prior shortcomings by providing a closure device, specially designed for use with rear entrance ski boots, which allows the quarters to be closed together in a very quick manner and without having the elements which make up the boot closure means separated from one another. Within the above aim, it is a particular object of the invention to provide a closure device which affords quick and effective operation with a single lever to close the quarters together. Another object of the present invention is to provide a closure device which can be operated by the user without undue leaning, but using, for example, the tip of a ski pole or even the toe of the other ski boot. A not least object of the present invention is to provide a closure device which is simplified in construction, to contribute toward a reduction of manufacturing costs. Within the above aim, it is a particular object of the invention to provide a closure device particularly for rear entrance ski boots, according to the invention, characterized in that it comprises a lever articulated to the rear portion of a ski boot rear quarter and being oscillable about a substantially perpendicular axis to the longitudinal direction of said rear quarter and the shell, to said lever there being slidably connected a block, releasably securable on preset points of said lever and being associated with at least one cable having at least one fixed point on the front quarter of said boot. Further features and advantages will become apparent from the following detailed description of a closure device particularly for rear entrance ski boots, as shown by way of illustration and not of limitation in the accompanying drawing, where With reference to the drawing figures, a closure device particularly for rear entrance ski boots, according to the invention, comprises a lever,generally designated with the reference numeral 1, which is articulated to the rear portion of a ski boot rear quarter 2, generally indicated at 4. The cited lever 1 is articulated to the rear quarter 2 for oscillation about a substantially perpendicular axis with respect to the longitudinal direction of the quarter and the longitudinal direction of the boot shell 3. The cited lever 1 has on one face thereof a recessed area 10 wherein is accommodated a block 11 releasably securable at different points of the lever by locking means, to be explained hereinafter. With the block 11 there engages a cable 12 which has at least one of its ends connected to a fixed point on the front quarter 5 and the other end either connected to a fixed point directly on the quarter 5 or possibly associated, with the interposition of a length adjuster assembly 15, to an extension cable 16 which is routed inside the shell 3 and extends crosswise of a foot instep presser 17, thereby in addition to attaining the boot closure, the foot instep can be locked securely as explained hereinafter. Where the extension cable 16 is provided to close the foot instep presser onto the front quarter 5 there is provided a locking detent 18 which acts as a retainer for the cable 15 length variator element, thereby on operating the lever, the foot instep is preliminarly locked and successively the quarters are closed together during the lever operation. The length of the cable 12 can be varied through an adjustment of the disclosed or the like type, to be obtained with conventional means on both fastening points to the front quarter 5, thus meeting the requirements of those having a large calf and a thin calf. The block 11, as described above, is partly accommodated within the recess 10 and is positionable at various points of the lever itself, so as to vary the clamping action applicable through the cable 12. In order to obtain closure of the ski boot, the block 11 is provided on the face confronting the bottom of the recess 10, with a serration 20 coupleable with a mating serration 21 defined on the bottom of the recess 10. On the bottom of the recess 10 there is provided a longitudinal slot 22 wherein a tang 23 is slidably accommodated which extends from the block 11 and is articulated, at its free end, to a camming lever 24 which has a first section 25 at a reduced distance from the articulation point, thereby the distance from the surface of the first section 25 to the serration 20 is greater than the thickness of the lever 1, at the bottom of the recess 10, thereby the serration 20 can be disengaged from the mating serration 21. The camming lever 24 has a second surface 26 further from the articulation point of the lever 24 to the tang 23, such that, on rotating the lever to bring the surface 26 to contact the lever 1, one attains the locking coupling of the serration 20 with the mating serration 21, which results in the lock 11 being locked in place. Thus the block 11 can be positioned quickly and easily at a selected point on the lever 1 and then its position made stable by turning the camming lever 24 to be close against the surface 1, with consequent coupling of the serrations. It should be added to the foregoing that the cable 12 is preferably passed through a guide channel 30 provided in the top portion of the rear quarter 2, so that closure is accomplished by pushing the lever 1 down this provides for an easier closure in that, in a known manner closure is easier to execute when effected in a downward direction by means of an operation which may be performed by means of the other boot. With the lever in its closed position, on the exposed face of the lever there is provided the camming lever 24, so that the user, when he she wishes to open, he she can do so without having to bend down, by acting with the tip of the ski pole on the camming lever and move it into the unlocked position, thus allowing the cable to relax and effecting subsequent opening. As previously described, the closure device may be set, additionally to clamping the quarters together, also to actuate the foot instep presser, for this purpose it is sufficient that an extension 16 of the cable be provided with adjusters known per se and routed to pass over the foot instep presser. By providing a detent 18 on the front quarter, during the initial phase the locking of the foot instep presser is carried out and the closure of the quarters occurs successively. It may be seen from the above description that the invention achieves its objects and in particular the fact should be emphasized that an extremely quick closure is provided in that it can be effected with a single lever. Furthermore, the cable is caused to remain always fast with the quarter and therefore it is not necessary to hook back the cable after each opening to permit closure. Another relevant aspect is that the adjustment is extremely simple in that it is effectuable by utilizing the sliding of the block 11 to which the camming lever is connected. In practicing the invention, the materials used, so long as compatible with the specific use, and the dimensions and contingent shapes may be any ones meeting individual requirements.