# Process for copolymerization of ethylene.

## Abstract
An improved process for copolymerizing ethylene with an alpha olefin in the presence of a polymerization catalyst com posed of a a catalyst component containing titanium and ha logen and b an organometallic compound, wherein the im provement comprises bringing said catalyst component into contact with an activity inhibitor either prior to activation or af ter said catalyst component has been activated with said orga nometallic compound, and subsequently copolymerizing ethyl ene with an alpha olefin.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. In a process for copolymerizing ethylene with an alpha olefin to produce LLDPE in the presence of a catalyst system comprising 1 a titanium halide containing catalyst component and 2 an organometallic cocatalyst, the improvement comprising bringing said catalyst component into contact with an activity inhibitor either i prior to contact with the organometallic cocatalyst, or ii after said catalyst component and organometallic cocatalyst have been mixed, and thereafter copolymerizing ethylene with an alpha olefin, said activity inhibitor selected from one of C02, CO, SO2, allene compounds, conjugated dienes and alicyclic conjugated dienes. 2. A process as in claim 1 wherein the titanium halide containing catalyst component is obtained by reducing titanium tetrachloride with one of hydrogen, aluminum, or an organometallic compound selected from organo compounds of Groups I III of thePeriodic Table to yield titanium trichloride or a complex thereof, treating the titanium trichloride or its complex with an activating agent selected from one of an electron donor, halogen element or halogen containing compound or mixtures thereof, and wherein the activity inhibitor being employed at a concentration in the range of about 0.0001 to 0.01 gram mol for 1 gram atom of titanium in the catalyst component. 3. A process as in claim 1 wherein the titanium halide containing component is obtained by contacting 1 metallic magnesium or a magnesium compound represented by the formula MSRR ,, ns wherein R1 and R2 are the same or different 3 hydrocarbon groups, OR groups, OH groups, or halogen atoms, and wherein R3 is a hydrocarbon group which is the same or different from R1 and R2, and 0 n 2 and 2 a titanium halide compound, 3 an activating agent selected from electron donor compounds, halogen elements, halogen containing compounds, or an organoaluminum compound and the activity inhibitor concentration is in the range of 0.001 to 1 gram mol per 1 gram atom of titanium in the catalyst component. 4. A process as in claim 3 wherein the titanium containing catalyst component is prepared in the presence of a metal oxide selected from B203, MgO, Awl203, SiO2, CaO, TiO2, ZnO,ZrO2, SnO2, BaO, ThO2, SiO2 MgO, SiO2 A1203, andSiO2 TiO2. 5. A process as in claim 1 wherein said activity inhibitor is CO. 6. A process as in claim 1 wherein the activity inhibitor is propadiene. 7. A catalyst system for copolymerizing ethylene with an alpha olefin to produce LLDPE, said catalyst system comprising 1 a titanium halide containing catalyst component and 2 an organometallic cocatalyst, said catalyst component being treated with an activity inhibitor either i prior to contact with the organometallic cocatalyst or ii after said catalyst component and organometallic cocatalyst have been mixed, said activity inhibitor selected from one of C02, CO, S02, Allen compounds, conjugated dienes, and alicyclic conjugated dienes. 8. A catalyst as in claim 7 wherein the activity inhibitor is CO. 9. A catalyst as in claim 7 wherein the activity inhibitor is propadiene.

## Description
PROCESS FOR COPOLYMERIZATION OF ETHYLENE The present invention relates to a process for the copolymerization of ethylene and, more particularly, to a process for copolymerizing ethylene with an alpha olefin.Prior art There are several commercial processes for producing so called linear low density polyethylene LLDPE by copolymerizing ethylene with an alpha olefin such as l butene in the presence of a ZieglerNatta catalyst. Many of them are designed for gas phase polymerization or slurry polymerization. A variety of catalysts have been proposed for the individual processes, and they exhibit their own performance. The polymerization catalyst needs to meet many requirements. Particularly it should have a high catalytic activity and provide polymer particles having a high bulk density. These requirements, however, are generally contradictory to each other, and it is difficult to provide a polymerization catalyst that meets the two requirements at the same time.Problems to be solved by the invention It is an object of the present invention to provide a process for the copolymerization of ethylene which is capable of producing ethylene copolymers with a high bulk density in high yields.Means to solve the problems Summary of the invention The present inventors carried out a series of researches based on the assumption that a polymerization catalyst with a high catalytic activity suddenly generates reaction heat because of its high initial activity, and this reaction heat melts the particles of copolymer which have just been formed resulting in copolymer particles of poor properties. As a result, it was found that if copolymerization of ethylene is performed using a polymerization catalyst, with its catalytic activity temporarily inhibited, an ethylene copolymer having a high bulk density is obtained in high yields, even though the polymerization catalyst is of high activity type. The present invention was completed based on this finding. Accordingly, the gist of the invention resides in an improved process for copolymerizing ethylene with an alpha olefin in the presence of a polymerization catalyst composed of a a catalyst component containing titanium and halogen as essential constituents and b an organometallic compound, wherein the improvement comprises bringing said catalyst component into contact with an activity inhibitor when said catalyst component is activated or after said catalyst component has been activated with said organometallic compound, and subsequently copolymerizing ethylene with an alpha olefin. Polymerization catalyst The polymerization catalyst used in this invention is composed of a a catalyst component containing titanium and halogen as essential constituents and b an organometallic compound. a Catalyst component The catalyst component contains titanium and halogen as essential constituents, and there are many known such catalyst components.Typical ones are titanium trihalide e.g., titanium trichloride and titanium tetrahalide e.g., titanium tetrachloride . These titanium halides may be used as such for polymerization but in this invention where high catalytic activity is required, the catalyst component of high activity is produced by the following processes. i By reducing titanium tetrachloride with hydrogen, aluminum, or an organometallic compound selected from organic compounds ofGroups I III of the Periodic Table. It includes, for example organic compounds of lithium, magnesium, calcium, zinc, and aluminum.Organoaluminum compounds are preferred among them. The organoaluminum compound that can be used is one which is represented by he formula R n where R is a C1 C18 alkyl group or C1 C12 aryl group X is a halogen atom, a Cl Cl8 alkoxy group, or hydrogen atom and n is a number in the range of 1 n 3 to give titanium trichloride or a complex compound thereof, and treating it with an activating agent such as electron donor, halogen element, or halogen containing compound. The electron donor compound includes, for example, alcohols, ethers, carboxylic esters, lactones, amines, carboxylic acid halides, carboxylic acid anhydrides, carboxylic amides, nitriles, ketones, aldehydes, thioethers, and organic phosphorus containing compounds. Examples of the alcohols include methanol, ethanol, propanol, butanol, hexanol, octanol, cyclohexanol, phenol, cresol, catechol, ethylene glycol, 2,2,2 trichloroethanol, 3 chloro l propanol, and p chlorophenol. Examples of the ethers include diethyl ether, dipropyl ether, diisopropyl ether, dibutyl ether, diisobutyl ether, diisoamyl ether, dihexyl ether, di 2 ethylhexyl ether, anisole, and tetrahydrofuran. Examples of the carboxylic esters include ethyl acetate, butyl butyrate, propyl pivalate, ethyl acrylate, ethyl methacrylate, diethyl succinate, butyl adipate, diethyl maleate, ethyl benzoate, methyl p toluylate, ethyl p anisate, monobutyl phthalate, dibutyl phthalate, and triethyl trimellitate. Examples of the lactones include gamma butyrolactone and delta valerolactone.Examples of the amines include methyl amine, ethyl amine, diethylamine, tributylamine, aniline, and tetramethylenediamine. Examples of the carboxylic acid halides include acetic acid chloride, butyric acid bromide, acrylic acid bromide, methacrylic acid chloride, sebacic acid bromide, maleic acid chloride, benzoyl chloride, p toluic acid chloride, p anisic acid chloride, phthalic acid dichloride, maleic acid methyl chloride, and phthalic acid butyl chloride. Examples of the carboxylic acid anhydrides include acetic anhydride, maleic anhydride, benzoic anhydride, and phthalic anhydride. Examples of the carboxylic acid amides include acetamide, benzamide, and toluamide. Examples of the nitriles include acetonitrile, benzonitrile, and tolunitrile.Examples of the ketones include acetone, methyl ethyl ketone, methyl isobutyl ketone, benzophenone, and acetophenone. Examples of the aldehydes include acetaldehyde, propionaldehyde, hexylaldehyde, benzaldehyde, and naphthoaldehyde. Examples of the organic phosphorus containing compounds include trimethyl phosphite, triphenyl phosphite, diphenylethyl phosphonate, diethylbenzyl phosphonate, tributyl phosphine, and triphenyl phosphine.Examples of the thioethers include diethyl thioether, dibutyl thioether, diphenyl thioether, and ethyl phenyl thioether. The halogen element includes, for example, chlorine, iodine, and bromine. The halogen containing compound includes, for example, hydrogen halide such as hydrogen chloride and hydrogen bromide halogenated hydrocarbon such as monochloroethane, dichloroethane, trichloroethane, tetrachloroethane, hexachloroethane, dichloropropane, tetra chloropropane, hexachloropropane, dichl orobutane, trichloropentane, and dichlorobenzene halides of metallic or non metallic elements such as TiCl4, SiCl4, SnCl4, BCl3, AlCl3, SbCl3, BI3, PCl3, PCl5, and HSiCl3 and oxyhalides of non metallic elements such as SO2Cl2, SOCl2, NOCl, and POCl3. These activating agents may be used alone or in combination with one another. Where two or more kinds of activating agents are used, they may be used simultaneously or consecutively. The treatment with the activating agent may be accomplished in the presence of an inert solvent such as hexane, heptane, octane, cyclohexane, benzene, toluene, and xylene. The activation by the activating agent is accomplished by treating titanium trichloride or a complex compound thereof 1 with an electron donor compound in the presence or absence of a halogen element and then with a halogen compound of metallic or non metallic element. 2 with a halogen compound of metallic or non metallic element in the presence of a halogen element. 3 with an electron donor compound and then with a halogen compound of metallic or non metallic element and a complex compound of an electron donor compound. 4 with an electron donor compound and then with a halogenated hydrocarbon. 5 with a halogenated hydrocarbon in the presence of an electron donor compound. 6 or by treating the treated product in 4 or 5 with a halogen compound of metallic or non metallic element. ii By contacting metallic magnesium or a magnesium compound and a titanium halide compound with an activating agent such as electron donor compound, halogen element, halogen containing compound, or organoaluminum compound. The magnesium compound is represented by the formulaMgRnÚRê 2 n, wherein RÚ and Rê are the same or different C1 C18 hydrocarbon groups, OR3 groups where R3 is a C C18 hydrocarbon group which is the same as or different fromR and R , OH groups, or halogen atoms and 0 n 2. Examples of the magnesium compound include magnesium halides such as MgC12, MgBr2, and MgI2 dihydrocarbyl magnesium such as Mg CH3 2, Mg C2H5 2 Mg C3H7 2, M9 C4Hg 2, Mg C2H5 C4Hg Mg C6H13 2, g C8H17 2, and Mg C6H5 2 dialkoxy magnesium such as Mg OCH3 2, Mg OC2H5 2, Mg OC3H7 2, Mg OC4Hg 2s Mg 0C6H13 2, Mg OC8H17 2, and Mg 0C6H5 2 and Mg OH Cl.The magnesium compound may be used in the form of a mixture with an organic compound of aluminum, boron, beryllium, or zinc, or in the form of a complex with a metal or compound of aluminum, boron, beryllium, or zinc. Examples of the titanium halide compound include TiC14, TiC13, Ti OC2H5 C13, Ti OC4H9 Cl3, Ti OC2H5 2Cl2, and Ti 0C6H5 2C12. The electron donor compound, halogen element, and halogencontaining compound are the same as those used in process i mentioned above. Examples of the organoaluminum compound include dihydrocarbyl aluminum halide such as diethyl aluminum chloride, dibutyl aluminum chloride, diethyl aluminum bromide, dibutyl aluminum bromide, dihexyl aluminum chloride, diphenyl aluminum chloride and hydrocarbyl aluminum dihalide such as methyl aluminum dichloride, ethyl aluminum dichloride, propyl aluminum dichloride, butyl aluminum dichloride, phenyl aluminum dichloride, ethyl aluminum dibromide, and butyl aluminum dibromide. These activating agents may be used alone or in combination with one another. Where two or more kinds of activating agents are used, they may be used simultaneously or consecutively. The contacting of metallic magnesium or a magnesium compound and a titanium halide compound with the activating agent may be accomplished by mechanical pulverizing or mixing in the presence or absence of an inert solvent such as hydrocarbon used in the above mentioned step i . The contacting may be accomplished in any order an in any method as described below. 1 A magnesium compound is contacted with an electron donor compound, and the resulting contact product is contacted with a titanium halide compound. 2 A magnesium compound is contacted with a halogen containing compound, and the resulting contact product is contacted with an electron donor compound this step may be omitted , and finally the resulting contact product is contacted with a titanium halide compound. 3 A magnesium compound is contacted with an electron donor compound, and the resulting contact product is contacted with an organoaluminum compound, halogen element, or halogen containing compound, and finally the resulting contact product is contacted with a titanium halide compound. 4 The catalyst component obtained in 2 or 3 is contacted with a halogen containing compound or organoaluminum compound. 5 Metallic magnesium is contacted with a halogen element, halogen containing compound and or electron donor compound, and the resulting contact product is contacted with an electron donor compound this step may be omitted , and finally the resulting contact product is contacted with a titanium halide compound. iii By contacting metallic magnesium or a magnesium compound and a titanium halide compound with an activating agent such as electron donor compound, halogen element, halogen containing compound, or organoaluminum compound in the presence of a metal oxide. The metal oxide includes, for example, B203, MgO, A1203, SiO2, CaO, TiO2, ZnO, ZrO2, SnO2, BaO, and ThO2. A complex metal oxide such as Si02 Mg0, SiO2 A1203, and SiO2 TiO2 can also be used. The contacting of a metal oxide, metallic magnesium or a magnesium compound, a titanium halide compound, and an activating agent may be accomplished by mechanical pulverizing or mixing in the presence or absence of an inert solvent such as the above mentioned hydrocarbon. The contacting may be accomplished in any order but the above mentioned method ii is preferable in which a desired magnesium compound is previously contacted with a metal oxide before the contacting procedure of ii is performed. b Organometallic compound The organometallic compound that can be used in this invention is an organic compound of a metal belonging to Groups I to III of thePeriodic Table. It includes, for example, organic compounds of lithium, magnesium, calcium, zinc, and aluminum. Organoaluminum compounds are preferred among them. The organoaluminum compound that can be used is one which is represented by he formula RnAlX3 n where R is a C1 C18 alkyl group or C1 C12 aryl group X is a halogen atom, a C1 C18 alkoxy group, or hydrogen atom and n is a number in the range of 1 n 3 . Examples of this compound include trimethyl aluminum, triethyl aluminum, tripropyl aluminum, triisobutyl aluminum, trihexyl aluminum, dimethyl aluminum chloride, diethyl aluminum chloride, diethyl aluminum bromide, diisobutyl aluminum chloride, methyl aluminum dichloride, ethyl aluminum dichloride, ethyl aluminum dibromide, isobutyl aluminum dichloride, ethyl aluminum sesquichloride, dimethyl aluminum methoxide, diethyl aluminum phenoxide, diethyl aluminum hydride, and diisobutyl aluminum hydride. More than two kinds of organometallic compounds can be used, and they can be used in combination with the electron donor compound that is used in the preparation of the catalyst component. Activity inhibitor The activity inhibitor includes, for example, inorganic gases such as carbon monoxide, carbon dioxide, and sulfur dioxide allene compounds such as propadiene, 1,2 butadiene, and 1,2 pentadiene conjugated diene compounds such as 1,3 butadiene and isoprene and alicyclic conjugated diene compounds such as norbonadiene and 1 ,5 cyclooctadiene. Process for copolymerization The present invention is intended to perform the copolymerization of ethylene with an alpha olefin. Examples of the alpha olefin include propylene, l butene, 4 methyl l pentene, l hexene, and l octene. The copolymerization may be performed in either gas phase or liquid phase. The liquid phase polymerization may be accomplished in an inert hydrocarbon such as butane, pentane, hexane, heptane, octane, cyclohexane, benzene, toluene, and xylene. The polymerization temperature is usually 800C to 15O0C, preferably 0 to 1200C. The polymerization pressure is 1 to 60 atm. The molecular weight modification of the resulting polymer is accomplished by the aid of hydrogen or any known molecular weight modifier present in the system. The quantity of the alpha olefin to be copolymerized is usually less than 20 wtX, particularly 5 to 15 wtX, based on the quantity of ethylene. The copolymerization may be performed continuously or batchwise, or in one step or in two or more steps. According to this invention, the catalyst component is activated with an organometallic compound. Usually this is accomplished by mixing the catalyst component with an organometallic compound and permitting the mixture to stand for a certain period of time. The period can be reduced when the temperature is high. The activated polymerization catalyst is then contacted with the activity inhibitor, whereby the active sites on the polymerization catalyst are partly or entirely modified by the activity inhibitor.Thus the catalyst becomes inactivated temporarily. The inactivated state disappears in the presence of an organometallic compound, ethylene or alpha olefin monomer , and or hydrogen. Therefore, the contacting with the activity inhibitor should be performed immediately before the polymerization catalyst is used, or the polymerization catalyst which has been contacted with the activity inhibitor should be stored at low temperatures or in the absence of an organometallic compound, olefin monomer, or hydrogen. Alternatively, the activity inhibitor may be added when the catalyst component is activated with an organometallic compound. According to this invention, it is important to control the amount of the activity inhibitor. Usually it is 0.0001 to 0.01 gram mol, preferably 0.0002 to 0.001 gram mol, for 1 gram atom of titanium in the catalyst component, in the case where the catalyst component is prepared by the above mentioned method i . Or, it is 0.001 to 1 gram mol, preferably 0.005 to 0.5 gram mol, in the case where the catalyst component is prepared by the above mentioned method ii or iii . The amount varies depending on the kind and amount of the organometallic compound as constituent of the polymerization catalyst, and on the amount of hydrogen. The polymerization catalyst is prepared from the catalyst component and organometallic compound so that the organometallic compound amounts to 1 to 2000 gram mol, preferably 20 to 500 gram mol, for 1 gram atom of titanium in the catalyst component. According to this invention, the polymerization catalyst is inactivated temporarily in the initial stage of polymerization but the catalytic activity is restored as the copolymerization reaction proceeds. The restoration of activity may be accelerated by supplying an additional organometallic compound. Effect of the invention The process of this invention makes it possible to produce ethylene copolymers having a high bulk density with a minimum loss of productivity per unit weight of the polymerization catalyst.Examples The invention is illustrated with the following examples, in which percent is by weight. The bulk density of the resulting copolymer was measured according to ASTM 01895 69, method A. The melt index MI was measured according to ASTM Dl 238. The true density was measured according to JIS K7112 D that employs specimens prepared according toJIS K6760 and water isopropanol mixture.Example 1 Preparation of catalyst component In a 200 ml flask, with the atmosphere therein replaced with nitrogen, was placed 6.0 g of powder silica prepared by calciningG 952, a product of Davison Co., in a nitrogen stream at 2000C for 2 hours and further at 7000C for 5 hours and 30 ml of 30 solution of n butylethyl magnesium in n heptane. The reactants were stirred at 900C for 45 minutes. The solids were washed with n hexane, 50 ml of n heptane was added, and 10 ml of ethanol was added dropwise with stirring. The reactants were heated at 900C for 1 hour. The solids were washed with n hexane and dried. 30 ml of n heptane and 3.5 ml of trichlorosilane were added, followed by stirring at 700C for 6 hours.The solids were washed with n hexane and dried. 90 ml of toluene and 1.5 ml of titanium tetrachloride were added, followed by stirring at 900C for 2 hours. The solids were washed with n hexane and dried. Thus there was obtained a catalyst component containingMg 4.6 , Ti l.lX, and C1 17.1 . Copolymerization of ethylene with l butene In a 1.5 liter autoclave SUS 316 equipped with a stirrer were placed under the atmosphere of nitrogen 700 ml of isobutane, 0.7 mmol of triisobutyl aluminum, and a glass ampoule sealed under the atmosphere of nitrogen containing 60.3 mg of the catalyst component prepared as mentioned above. The polymerization system was heated to 80 C. Hydrogen was introduced until the partial pressure of hydrogen reached 1.5 kg cmê. The ampoule was broken by rotating the stirrer, and the catalyst component was contacted with triisobutyl aluminum for 2 minutes while stirring. Carbon monoxide 4 x 10 3 mmol diluted with nitrogen was added. Ethylene was introduced until the pressure reached 5 atm. One minute later, 30 g of l butene was added to start polymerization.Polymerization was performed for 2 hours while supplying ethylene so that the total pressure of the polymerization system was kept constant. After the polymerization was complete, unreacted monomers and isobutane were purged. The resulting white polymer powder was dried in vacuo at 700C for 10 hours. There was obtained 253 g of ethylenel butene copolymer having an MI of 1.1 g 10 min, a bulk density of 0.41 g cc, and a true density of 0.9255 g cc. The specific catalytic activity was as follows Ec 420 g polymer g catalyst component hr ethylene partial pressureEt 37.5 kg polymer g titanium hr ethylene partial pressure.Comparative Example 1 Copolymerization of ethylene with l butene was performed in the same manner as in Example 1 except that carbon monoxide was not added. There was obtained a copolymer having an MI of 1.5 g 10 min, a bulk density of 0.29 g cc, and a true density of 0.9267 g cc.Ec 494 and Et 44.2.Example 2 Preparation of catalyst component 4.5 g of silica was contacted with n butylethyl magnesium in the same manner as in Example 1. After washing, the solids were contacted with 50 ml of n heptane and 20 ml of ethyl orthoformate at 900C for 1 hour, followed by washing with n hexane. The solids were contacted with a mixture of 20 ml of trichlorosilane and 50 ml of n heptane at 700C for 1 hour, followed by washing with n hexane. The solids were finally contacted with 50 ml of toluene and 0.5 ml of titanium tetrachloride at 900C for 0.5 hours, followed by washing with n hexane and drying. Thus there was obtained a catalyst component containing Mg 3.8 , Ti 0.48 , and C1 14.0 . Copolymerization of ethylene with l butene Copolymerization of ethylene with l butene was performed in the same manner as in Example 1 except that the catalyst component obtained as mentioned above was used. The results are shown in Table 1. Example 3 Preparation of catalyst component In a 200 liter flask, with the atmosphere therein replaced with nitrogen, were placed 4.7 g of silica and 7.5 ml of a saturated solution of Mg OCH3 2 in methanol, followed by stirring for 10 minutes. Methanol was removed by vaporization under nitrogen stream and vacuum. 7.5 ml of the same saturated solution was added again and methanol was removed by vaporization in the same manner as mentioned above. The reaction product was dried in vacuo at about 900C for 2 hours. Then, 30 ml of n heptane and 40 ml of trichlorosilane were added, followed by stirring at 700C for 5 hours. The resulting solids were washed with n hexane and then dried. 50 ml of toluene and 20 ml of titanium tetrachloride were added, followed by stirring at 9O0C for 1 hour. The solids were washed with n hexane and dried.Thus there was obtained a catalyst component containingMg 1.8 , Ti 0.63 , and C1 8.3X. Copolymerization of ethylene with l butene Copolymerization of ethylene with l butene was performed in the same manner as in Example 1 except that the catalyst component obtained as mentioned above was used. The results are shown in Table 1.Example 4 Preparation of catalyst component In a 200 liter flask, with the atmosphere therein replaced with nitrogen, were placed 2.2 g of Mg 0C2H5 2 and 40 ml of n octane. A solution containing 5 g of titanium tetrachloride in 25 ml of toluene was added with stirring, and the reactants were heated and stirred under reflux. The resulting solids were washed with n hexane and dried in a nitrogen stream and then in vacuum. Thus there was obtained a catalyst component containing Mg 13.5 , Ti 11.4X, and C1 72.4 . Copolymerization of ethylene with l butene Copolymerization of ethylene with l butene was performed in the same manner as in Example 1 except that 61.1 mg of the catalyst component obtained as mentioned above was used and 1.8 x 10 3 mmol of carbon monoxide was added. The results are shown in Table 1. Comparative Examples 2 to 4 Copolymerization of ethylene with l butene was performed in the same manner as in Comparative Example 1 except that the catalyst components obtained in Examples 2 to 4 were used. The results are shown in Table 1.Example 5 Copolymerization of ethylene with l butene was performed in the same manner as in Example 1 except that 55.2 mg of the catalyst component obtained in Example 1 was used and carbon monoxide was replaced by 0.9 x 10 3 mmol of allene. The results are shown inTable 1.Example 6 Copolymerization of ethylene with l hexene was performed in the same manner as in Example 1 except that the amount of the catalyst component was changed to 70.6 mg, the amount of carbon monoxide was changed to 4.7 x 10 3 mmol, and l butene was replaced by 60 g of 1 hexene. The results are shown in Table 1. Table 1Example Activity MI Bulk density True density Ec Et inhibitor g 10 min g cc g cc 1 CO 1.1 0.41 0.9255 420 37.5 2 CO 0.81 0.40 0.9269 233 48.5 3 CO 0.52 0.39 0.9279 285 45.5 4 CO 1.1 0.39 0.9300 278 2.4 5 Allene 0.84 0.41 0.9283 395 35.3 6 CO 0.46 0.42 0.9275 337 30.1Comparative none 1.5 0.29 0.9267 494 44.2Example 1Comparative none 0.85 0.35 0.9266 256 53.3Example 2Comparative none 0.48 0.34 0.9276 324 51.6Example 3Comparative none 1.1 0.28 0.9310 331 2.9Example 4 g g cat.hr.atm kg g Ti.hr.atm