# Arylalkoxyphenyl allylic alcohols as agents for the treatment of hypersensitive ailments.

## Abstract
The present invention is concerned with the therapeutic composition comprising as an active ingredient a compound of the formula CHEM and salts thereof, wherein a 1, 2 or 3 each b 1 or 2 and is the same value as the other Ar is phenyl or naphthyl containing one or two substituents selected from the group consisting of hydrogen, alkoxy, aryloxy, hydroxy, hydroxyalkyl, alkyl, aryl, halo, CF3, carboxy, carbalkoxy, carboxyalkoxy, carbalkoxyalkoxy, lower acyl, nitrilo, amino, nitro, mercapto or alkylthio Ar1 is phenyl, naphthyl, or a nitrogen, oxygen or sulfur heterocyclic ring each R1 is independently hydrogen, alkyl, carboxy, carbalkoxy, alkylenecarboxy, arylenecarboxy, alkylenecarbalkoxy, alkanoyl, formyl, nitrilo, amino, aminoalkylene, alkylamino, carboxamide, halo, trihalomethyl, hydroxy, alkoxy, aralkyloxy, aryloxy, nitro, sulfamyl, mercapto or alkylthio each R is H or alkyl Z is an alkylene chain containing up to 10 carbon atoms in the principal chain and up to a total of 12 carbon atoms and from 0 to 2 double bonds and Z when taken together with the carbon atom of CR CR to which it is attached forms a cycloalkylidene ring each R2 is a substituent attached to one of the carbon atoms of Z selected from the group consisting of OR4, SR4, N R4 2, CHO and COR5 each R3 is H, cycloalkyl, aralkyl, aryl, lower dialkylamino, morpholino, piperazino, piperidino or CF3 each R4 is H, alkyl, benzoyl, lower alkanoyl, aryl or aralkyl R5 is OR6 or N R4 2 R6 is H, alkyl, aryl, or aralkyl n 1 or 2 n min 1 or 2 n sec 1 or 2 n 1 or 2 X O CHR7 m , CHEM NR4 CHR7 m , alkylene of up to 2 carbon atoms in the principal chain and up to a total of 4 carbon atoms, C R7 C R7 , C IDENTICAL C , CHEM m 0 or 1 m min 0, 1, or 2 and R7 is H, CH3 or phenyl wherein the group s designated R1 n Ar1 X b a is are attached directly to Ar. In addition, the present invention relates to the method of using these compounds as lipoxygenase inhibitors possessing anti inflammatory and anti allergic responses.

## Claims
WHAT IS CLAIMED IS 1. A therapeutic composition co trising as an active ingredient a compound of the formula R1 n,Ar1 X b a Ar CR CR n Z R2 n R3 n b and salts thereof, wherein a 1, 2 or 3 each b 1 or 2 and is the same value as the other Ar is phenyl or naphthyl containing one or two substituents selected from the group consisting of hydrogen, alkoxy, aryloxy, hydroxy, hydroxyalkyl, alkyl, aryl, halo,CF3, carboxy, carbalkoxy, carboxyalkoxy, carbalkoxyalkoxy, lower acyl, nitrilo, amino, nitro1 mercapto, or alky.lthio Ar1 is phenyl, naphthyl, or a nitrogen, oxygen or sulfur heterocyclic ring each R1 is independently hydrogen, alkyl, carboxy, carbalkoxy, alkylenecarboxy, arylenecarboxy, alkylenecarbalkoxy, alkanoyl, formyl, nitrilo, amino, aminoalkylene, alkylamino, carboxamide, halo, trihalomethyl, hydroxy, alkoxy, aralkyloxy, aryloxy, nitro, sulfamyl, mercapto or alkylthio each R is H or alkyl Z is an alkylene chain containing up to 10 carbon atoms in the principal chain and up to a total of 12 carbon atoms and from 0 to 2 double bonds and Z when taken together with the carbon atom of CR CR to which it is attached forms a cycloalkylidene ring each R2 is OR4 attached to one of the carbon atoms of Z each R3 is H, cycloalkyl, aralkyl or aryl, dialkylamino, morpholino, piperazino, piperidino, or CF each R4 is H, alkyl, benzoyl, lower alkanoyl, aryl or aralkyl n 1 or 2 n 1 or 2 n 1 or 2 n 1 or 2 X O CHR7 m ,EMI33.1 NR4 CHR7 m , alkylene of up to 2 carbon atoms in the principal chain and up to a total of 4 carbon atoms, ClR7 ClR7 , C C , EMI33.2 EMI33.3 m O or 1 m 0, 1 or 2 and R7 is H, CH3 or phenyl wherein the group s designated R1 n, Ar X b a is are attached directly to Ar. 2. The therapeutic composition according toClaim 1 wherein Ar is phenyl and Arl is phenyl, quinolyl or indolyl. 3, The therapeutic composition according toClaims 1 2, wherein X is O CHR7 . 4. The therapeutic composition according toClaims 1 3 wherein n is 1. 5p The therapeutic composition according toClaims 1 4 wherein b is 1, 6. The therapeutic composition according toClaims 1 5 wherein a is 1, 7. A method for the treatment of hypersensitive, inflammatory or allergic conditions comprising the administration of a therapeutically effective amount of a compound according to Claims 1 6. 8. 4 p Benzyloxyphenyl 3 buten 2 ol 4 2,4 Dibenzyloxyphenyl 3 buten 2 ol 1 2 ,4 Dibenzyloxyphenyl 1 octen 3 ol 1 t2,4 Dibenzyloxyphenyl 4,4 dimethyl 1 penten 3 ol l p BenzylOxyphenyl 5 N,N dimethylamino l penten 3 one 21,4 Dibenzyloxycinnamyl alcohol 4 3,4 Dibenzyloxyphenyl 3 but en 2 ol 4 Dipheny methoxyphenyl 3 buten 2 ol or 4 2,5 Dibenzyloxyphenyl 3 buten 2 ol.

## Description
ARYLALSOXYPHERYL ALLYLIC ALCOHOLS AS AGENTS FOR THE TREATMENT OF HYPERSENSITIVE ALIMENTS This invention relates to the use of certain chemical compounds possessing valuable pharmaceutical activity, particularly as lipoxygenase inhibitors possessing anti inflammatory and antiallergic properties. Novel intermediates, used for preparing the active therapeutic agents, also possess valuable therapeutic properties, and are also within the scope of this invention. Unsaturated carbonyl compounds are known in the prior art. EPO Appro, No. 71,399 describes the synthesis of compounds of the formulaEMI1.1 wherein X and Y are independently selected from F, OR, S O dRi, CONHR, NHR, CH2OR, CN, NHCONHR, NHCSNHR, NHCOR , SO2NHR, NHSO2RÚ, and NHCO2R, wherein R is either hydrogen or lower alkyl moiety which is either a straight or branched hydrocarbon chain of 1 4 carbon atoms,R1 is lower alkyl as defined above, or two Xs or two Ys taken together are OCH2O a, b, d is 0, 1 or 2 c is 0, 1, 2 or 3 These compounds are used as intermediates in the formation of pyrrolidines which are useful as regulators of the cardiovascular system and are also bronchodilators.No therapeutic properties of the carbonyl compounds are suggested or disclosed in this reference. Various enones having the following formulaEMI2.1 wherein Rl, R2 Me,Ph Y OMe, O tol p, SEt, SPh, NHPr,EMI2.2 NHPh. were prepared by Kashima et al. as described in J. Heterocyclic Chem, 19, 1325 1328 19821. Ger. Offen. 3,011,258 describes the preparation of alpha , ss unsaturated ketones of the fomulaEMI2.3 in which R1 and R2 are C1 C6 alkyl, napthyl or phenyl, with the phenyl moiety being substituted with F, Cl, Br, C1 C4 alkyl, and C1 C4 lower alkoxy, and R3 is C1 C4 lower alkyl, benzyl or phenyl, with the benzyl and phenyl moieties being substituted with F, Cl, Br, or C1 C4 alkyl. These compounds are used qs intermediates in the formation of triazolyl derivatives having fungicidal properties. The preparation of 2,6 dibenzyloxybenzalacetone EMI3.1 is described in Nippon Noerkagaku Kashi, 34, 678 831 1960 C.A. 59, 13929c 1963 . The preparation of 1 3,4 dibenzyloxyphenyl 4,4 dimethylpenten 3 oneEMI3.2 and its use as an antiviral agent is described in U.S. PatentNo. 4,372,976. Allylic alcohols are also known in the art. A compound having the formulaEMI3.3 is described in EPO Application 71,399 1983 . This compound is used as an intermediate in the formation of pyrrolidones which are useful as regulators of the cardiovascular system and are bronchodilators. No therapeutic activity of the alcohol was suggested or disclosed in this reference. But, the therapeutic activity of these compounds as an antihypersensitive, an anti inflammatory or as an anti allergic agent was not recognized or suggested by these researchers. In addition, the conjugated diene analogs of the above compounds were not suggested or contemplated by these researchers.Summary of the Invention The present invention is concerned with the therapeutic composition comprising as an active ingredient a compound of the formula R1 n, Ar, X b a Ar CR CR n Z R2 n R3 nm b and salts thereof, wherein a 1, 2 or 3 each b 1 or 2 and is the same value as the other Ar is phenyl or naphthyl containing one or two substituents selected from the group consisting of hydrogen, alkoxy, aryloxy, hydroxy, hydroxyalkyl, alkyl, aryl, halo,CF3, carboxy, carbalkoxy, carboxyalkoxy, carbalkoxyalkoxy, lower acyl, nitrilo, amino, nitro, mercapto or alkylthio Arl is phenyl, naphthyl, or a nitrogen, oxygen or sulfur heterocyclic ring each R1 is independently hydrogen, alkyl, carboxy, carbalkoxy, alkylenecarboxy, arylenecarboxy, alkylenecarbalkoxy, alkanoyl, formyl, nitrilo, amino, aminoalkylene, alkylamino, carboxamide, halo, trihalomethyl, hydroxy, alkoxy, aralkyloxy, aryloxy, nitro, sulfamyl, mercapto or alkylthio each R is H or alkyl Z is an alkylene chain containing up to 10 carbon atoms in the principal chain and up to a total of 12 carbon atoms and from 0 to 2 double bonds and Z when taken together with the carbon atom of CR CR to which it is attached forms a cycloalkylidene ring each R2 is a substituent attached to one of the carbon atoms of Z selected from the group consisting ofOR4, SR4, N R4 2, CHO and COR5 each R3 is H, cycloalkyl, aralkyl, aryl, lower dialkylamino, morpholino, piperazino, piperidino or CF3 each R4 is H, alkyl, benzoyl, lower alkanoyl, aryl or aralkyl R5 is OR6 or N R4 2 R6 is H, alkyl, aryl, or aralkyl n 1 or 2 n 1 or 2 nn 1 or 2 1 or 2 X O CHR7 m ,EMI5.1 NR4 CHR7 m , alkylene of up to 2 carbon atoms in the principal chain and up to a total of 4 carbon atoms, C R7 C R7 , C C , EMI5.2 EMI5.3 m O or 1 m 0, 1, or 2 and R7 is H, CH3 or phenyl wherein the group s designated R1 n, Ar1 X b a is are attached directly to Ar. In addition, te present invention relates to the method of using these compounds as lipoxygenase inhibitors possessing anti inflammatory and a ti allergic responses.Also encompassed within the invention are particularly useful intermediates in the preparation of compounds of Formula , wherein R2 is OH. These intermediates are composed ofFormula II EMI6.1 wherein Ar, Arl, X, R, R1, n, n , a and b are as cefined above Z1 is an alkylene chain containing from 0 10 carbon atoms in the principal chain and up to a total of 12 carbon atoms and from 0 to 2 double bonds R1 is H, alkyl, cycloalkyl, aralkyl, aryl, or dimethylaminoalkyl wherein the group s designated R1 ni Arl X b a is are attached directly to Ar. The heterocyclic rings exemplary of Ar and Arl contain at least one oxygen, sulfur or nitrogen and include the so called benzoheterocyclic rings. Exemplary heterocyclics include furan, thiophene, pyrrole, pyridine, thiazole, piperazine, oxazole, benzofuran, quinoline, indole, benzothiophene, benzoxazole and similar heterocyclic rings as well as the N oxides of the nitrogen heterocyclics. The preferred heterocyclics are quinoline and indole. Compounds which are particularly preferred are those in which Ar is phenyl or naphthyl, and most preferred are those in which Ar and Ar1 are each phenyl. The alkyl groups, ether alone or within the various substituents defined hereinbefore are preferably lower alkyl which may be straight or branched chain, and include methyl, ethyl, propyl, isopropyl, butyl, isobutyl, tert butyl, amyl, hexyl and the like. The halo atoms in halo and trihalomethyl are C1, Br, I and preferably F. The aryl groups are preferably phenyl or naphthyl. The preferred compounds of Formula I are those in which R2 is OR4, n is 1 or 2, nt is 1 or 2 and Z contains up to five carbon atoms in the principal chain and is attached directly to CR CR by a covalent bond. The preferred compounds of Formula II are those in which n is 1 or 2, nfl is 1 and Z contains 0 to 6 carbon atoms. The aryl groups, i.e., phenyl, the aryl group of arylalkyl, and benzoyl, may be unsubstituted or substituted with one or two substituents such as OH, alkoxy, aryloxy, arylalkyloxy, halogen, alkyl, carboxy, carbalkoxy, carboxamide and similar such groups. The present compounds can be prepared by art recognized procedures from known compounds or readily preparable intermediates. An exemplary general procedure is as follows EMI7.1 Alternatively, the compounds of Formula III may include one CR CR group between Ar and the aldehyde group and the CR CR group eliminated from compounds of formulaeIV and V In this alternate procedure, there are produced compounds in which n 2. Compounds in which R2 is OH can be directly prepared by reduction of the ketones of Formula II formed from the following reaction EMI8.1 Alternatively, the reaction of a Grignard reagent with an aldehyde intermediate of suitable carbon content can directly form the corresponding secondary alcohol R1 n Ar1 X b1 aAr CR CR nCHO VIMgX 22 R2 ng R3 no VIIEMI8.2 the corresponding 20 alcohol.In this reaction, Z2 is one carbon less than Z. Of course, the aldehyde group in structure VI may be separated by an alkylene chain from the CR CR group so that the secondary alcohol can be placed as desired in the alkylene chain representative of Z. Various preparative procedures are illustrated in the specific examples which are included herein. The present compounds form salts with acids when a basic amino function is present and salts with bases when an acid function, i.e., carboxyl, is present. All such salts are useful in the isolation and or purification of the new products. Of particular value are the pharmaceutically acceptable salts with both acids and bases. Suitable acids include, for example, hydrochloric, sulfuric, nitric, benzenesulfonic, toluenesulfonic, acetic, malic, tartaric and the like which are pharmaceutically acceptable. Basic salts for pharmaceutical use are the Na, X, Ca and Mg salts. The compounds of the present invention can be administered to the host in a variety of forms adapted to the chosen route of administration, i.e., crally, intravenously, intramuscularly or subcutaneous, topically or inhalation routes. The active compound may be orally administered, for example, with an inert diluent or with an assimilable edible carrier, or it may be enclosed in hard or soft shell gelatin capsule, or it may be compressed into tablets, or it may be incorporated directly with the food of the diet. For oral therapeutic administration, the active compound may be incorporated with excipients and used in the form of ingestible tablets, buccal tablets, troches, capsules, elixirs, suspensions, syrups, wafers, and the like. Such compositions and preparations should contain at least 0.1 of active compound. The percentage of the compositions and preparations may, of course, be varied and may conveniently be between about 2 to about 60 of the weight of the unit.The amount of active compound in such therapeutically useful compositions is such that a suitable dosage will be obtained.Preferred compositions or preparations according to the present invention are prepared so that an oral dosage unit form contains between about 50 and 300 mg of active compound. The tablets, troches, pills, capsules and the like may also contain the following A binder such as gum tragacanth, acacia, corn starch or gelatin excipients such as dicalcium phosphate a disintegrating agent such as corn starch, potato starch, alginic acid and the like a lubricant such as magnesium stearate and a sweetening agent such as sucrose, lactose or saccharin may be added or a flavoring agent such as peppermint, oil of wintergreen, or cherry flavoring. When the dosage unit form is a capsule, it may contain, in addition to materials of the above type, a liquid carrier. Various other materials may be present as coatings or to otherwise modify the physical form of the dosage unitFor instance, tablets, pills, or capsules may be coated with shellac, sugar or both.A syrup or elixir may contain the active compound, sucrose as a sweetening agent, methyl and propylparabens as preservatives, a dye and flavoring such as cherry or orange flavor. Of course, any material used in preparing any dosage unit form should be pharmaceutically pure and substantially non toxic in the amounts employed. In addition, the active compound may be incorporated into sustained release preparations and formulations. The active compound may also be administered parenterally or intraperitoneally. Solutions of the active compound as a free base or pharmacologically acceptable salt can be prepared in water suitably mixed with a surfactant such as hydroxypropylcellulose. Dispersions can also be prepared in glycerol, liquid polyethylene glycols, and mixtures thereof and in oils. Under ordinary conditions of storage and use, these preparations contain a preservative to prevent the growth of microorganisms. The pharmaceutical forms suitable for injectable use include sterile aqueous solutions or dispersions and sterile powders for the extemporaneous preparation of sterile injectable solutions or dispersions. In all cases the form must be sterile and must be fluid to the extent that easy syringability exists. It must be stable under the conditions of manufacture and storage and must be preserved against the contaminating action of microorga..isms such as bacteria and fungi. The carrier can be a solvent or dispersion medium containing, for example, water, ethanol, polyol for example, glycerol, propylene glycol, and liquid polyethylene glycol, and the like , suitable mixtures thereof, and vegetable oils.The proper fluidity can be maintained, for example, by the use of a coating such as lecithin, by the maintenance of the required particle size in the case of dispersion and by the use of surfactants. The prevention of the action of microorganisms can be brought about by various antibacterial and antifungal agents, for example, parabens, chlorobutanol, phenol, sorbic acid, thimerosal, and the like. In many cases, it will be preferable to include isotonic agents, for exarriple, sugars or sodium chloride. Prolonged absorption of the injectable compositions can be brought about by the use in the compositions of agents delaying absorption, for example, aluminum monostearate and gelatin. Sterile injectable solutions are prepared by incorporating the active compound in the required amount in the appropriate solvent with various of the other ingredients enumerated above, as required, followed by filtered sterilization. Generally, dispersions are prepared by incorporating the various sterilized active ingredients into a sterile vehicle which contains the basic dispersion medium and the required other ingredients from those enumerated above. In the case of sterile powders for the preparation of sterile injectable solutions, the preferred methods of preparation are vacuum drying and the freeze drying technique which yield a powder o. the active ingredient plus any additional desired ingredient from previously sterile filtered solution thereof. The following examples further illustrate the invention. EXAMPLE 1 4 p Benzyloxyphenyl 3 buten 2 one 1 A mixture of p benzyloxybenzaldehyde 40g , acetone 100 ml , ethanol 300 ml and 2N aqueous NaOH solution 1 ml was stirred at room temperature overnight.The precipitate was collected and recrystallized with acetone to give a crystalline product in quantitative yield, m.p.58 101 C. lit. m.p. 106 107 C. . Similarly prepared, using appropriate substituted benzaldehyde and ketone as starting material, were compounds 2, 4 11, 20, and 43. EXAi LE 2 8 p Benzyloxyphenyl 2,2 dimethyl 5,7 octadien 4 one 13 A mixture of p benzyloxycinnamaldehyde 3 g , 4,4 dimethyl pentan 2 one 0.85 g , ethanol 15 ml and 60 aqueous KOH solution 24 ml was stirred at room temperature overnight. After dilution with water followed by neutralization with hydrochloric acid, a solid precipitated out which was collected, washed with water and recrystallized with ethanol to yield a crystalline product 1.9 g , m.p. 88 890C. Similarly prepared were compounds 14 16. EXAMPLE 3EMI15.1 This Bis ketone 18 A mixture of 2,4 dihydroxybenzaldehyde 13.6 g , ortho 2,2 dibromoxylene 16 g , anhydrous potassium carbonate 40 g in DMF 200 ml was stirred in an oil bath at 1400C for one hour. After removal of solvent in reduced pressure, the organic layer was dried by anhydrous magnesium sulfate and evaporated to give an oil residue. Purification with a silica gel dry column chloroform as the eluant afforded the bis hydroxybenzaldehyde intermediate as a white solid 3.8 g . A mixture of the above solid 3.8 g , benzyl chloride 15 ml , anhydrous potassium carbonate 23 g in DlT 100 ml was stirred in an oil bath at 1400C for one hour.It was then worked up in a manner similar to above and the bis benzyloxybenzalaldehyde precursor was obtained as a white solid 2.7 g , m.p. 102 1040C. A mixture of this precursor 2.7 g in acetone 30 ml , ethanol 30 ml and 2N NaOH solution 1 ml was refluxed for one hour. After cooling, the precipitate was collected and recrystallized with chloroform ether to yield a crystalline product 1.6 g , m.p. 157 159 C. EXAMPLE 4 4 p Diphenylmethoxyphenyl 3 buten 2 one 19 A mixture of chlorodiphenylmethane 10.0 g , 4 hydroxybenzaldehyde 6.1 g , anhydrous potassium carbonate 6.9 g in Dtf 50 ml was stirred in an oil bath at 1400C for one hour. The mixture was filtered, then evaporated to a residue which was partitioned between dichloromethane and water. The organic layer was dired with anhydrous magnesium sulfate then evaporated to give the crude p diphenylmethoxy benzaldehyde as a white solid 3.2 g . A mixture of p diphenylmethoxybenzaldehyde 3.2 g , acetone 5.5 ml , ethanol 5.5 ml and 2N NaOH solution 0.66 ml was stirred at room temperature for one hour. The mixture was then evaporated to give an oily residue which was put through a silica gel dry column ethyl acetate hexane 2 1 as the eluant . The pure product was obtained first as an oil but solidified after standing at room temperature overnight. Filtration with hexane yielded a yellowish solid product 1.5 g , m.p. 97 C. EXPLE 5 1 2 ,4 Dibezyloxyphenyl 1 octen 3 one 3 A mixture of 2,4 dibenzyloxybenzaldehyde 5.7 g , 2 oxo heptyltriphenylphosphorane 14 g in toluene 50 ml was stirred and heated around 110 C for three hours. After cooling to room temperature, ethyl acetate 200 ml was added. The organic layer was washed in turn with 1N HCL solution, water, and aqueous sodium bicarbonate solution, dried by anhydrous magnesium sulfate and evaporated. The residue was purified via a silica gel dry column 10 ethyl acetate in hexane as the eluant followed by trituration with ether hexane to afford the product as a slightly sticky solid 4.5 g , m.p. 60 70 C. Similarly prepared, using 4 benzyloxycinnamaldehyde as the starting material, compound 8 was obtained, m.p.117 1180C. EXAMPLE 6 1 p Benzyloxyphenyl 5 N,N dimethylamino 1 penten 3 one 17 A mixture of 4 p benzyloxyphnely 3 buten 2 one 1, 100 g , paraformaldehyde 72.8 g , dimethylamine hydrochloride 36.4 g in ethanol 300 ml and 2N HCL solution 2 ml was stirred and refluxed for one hour. The reaction mixture was concentrated at reduced pressure to a small volume and then partitioned between 2N HCL solution and ethyl acetate. The acidic solution was basified with 50 NaOH solution to give out a red colored oil which upon trituration with ether became a wet solid.Recrystallization with chloroform hexane afforded the product as a crystalline solid 42 g , m.p. 73 800C EXAMPLE 7 4 p Benzyloxyphenyl 3 buten 2 ol 2 To a solution of 4 p benzyloxyphenyl 3 buten 2 one 1, 4.5 g in a mixture of tetrahydrofuran, 50 ml and ethanol 250 ml was added sodium borohydride 5.3 g with stirring at cold temperature. The reaction mixture was stirred for one hour, then quenched with 10 aqueous solution of ammonium chloride. After concentration at reduced pressure, it was extracted with chloroform.The organic layer was dried by anhydrous magnesium sulfate followed by evaporation to give a solid residue 4 g which was recrystallized from ethyl acetate ethyl ether hexane to afford the product as a white crystalline solid, m.p. l11 1120C. Similarly prepared were alcohols 22 40, 42, and 43. In the following tables, the compounds are denoted by nu rers. These numbers correspond to the compound identification number, which are located in parentheses after the name in the heading in the preceding examples. TABLE I EMI21.1 EMI21.2 R1 n,Ar1 SEP X SEP b SEP a SEP Ar SEP R SEP H SEP Z1C R SEP M.Pt. tb SEP tb SEP O SEP 0 C tb 1. SEP phenyl SEP CH2O SEP 1 SEP 1 4 SEP phenyl SEP H SEP 1 SEP COCH3 SEP 98 101 tb 2. SEP phenyl SEP CH2O SEP 1 SEP 2 2,4 SEP phenyl SEP H SEP 1 SEP COCH3 SEP 86 92 tb 3. SEP phenyl SEP CH2O SEP 1 SEP 2 2,4 SEP phenyl SEP H SEP 1 SEP CO n C5H11 SEP 60 70 tb 4. SEP phenyl SEP CH2O SEP 1 SEP 2 2,4 SEP phenyl SEP H SEP 1 SEP COCH2 3 butyl SEP 92 94 tb 5. SEP phenyl SEP CH2O SEP 1 SEP 2 2,4 SEP phenyl SEP H SEP 1 SEP CO 3 butyl SEP 84 86 tb 6. SEP 4 F phenyl SEP CH2O SEP 1 SEP 2 2,4 SEP phenyl SEP H SEP 1 SEP COCH3 SEP 137 140 tb 7. SEP phenyl SEP CH2O SEP 1 SEP 2 2,5 SEP phenyl SEP H SEP 1 SEP COCH3 SEP 118 171 tb 8. SEP phenyl SEP CH2O SEP 1 SEP 2 3,4 SEP phenyl SEP H SEP 1 SEP COCH3 SEP 101 103 tb 9. SEP phenyl SEP CH2O SEP 1 SEP 2 3,4 SEP phenyl SEP H SEP 1 SEP CO 3 butyl SEP 78 80 tb 10.phenyl SEP CH2O SEP 1 SEP 2 2,3,4 SEP phenyl SEP H SEP 1 SEP COCH3 SEP 89 91 tb 11.phenyl SEP CH2O SEP 1 SEP 2 2,4,6 SEP phenyl SEP H SEP 1 SEP COCH3 SEP 94 96 tb 12.phenyl SEP CH2O SEP 1 SEP 1 4 SEP phenyl SEP H SEP 2 SEP CO n C5H11 SEP 117 118 tb 13.phenyl SEP CH2O SEP 1 SEP 1 4 SEP phenyl SEP H SEP 2 SEP COCH2 3 butyl SEP 88 89 tb 14.phenyl SEP CH2O SEP 1 SEP 1 4 SEP phenyl SEP H SEP 2 SEP CO 3 butyl SEP oil tb lit mp is 106 107 C TABLE 1 cont. EMI22.1 15. SEP phenyl SEP CH2O SEP 1 SEP 2 2,4 SEP phenyl SEP H SEP 2 SEP COCH2 3 butyl SEP oil tb 16. SEP phenyl SEP CH2O SEP 1 SEP 2 2,4 SEP phenyl SEP H SEP 2 SEP CO 3 butyl SEP oil tb 17. SEP phenyl SEP CH2O SEP 1 SEP 1 4 SEP phenyl SEP H SEP 1 SEP CO CH2 2N CH3 2 SEP 73 80 tb 18. SEP phenyl SEP CH2O SEP 2 SEP 1 4 SEP phenyl SEP H SEP 1 SEP COCH3 SEP 157 5 tb 19. SEP phenyl SEP CHO SEP 1 SEP 1 4 SEP phenyl SEP H SEP 1 SEP COCH3 SEP 97 tb SEP O tb 20. SEP CH2O SEP CH SEP CH3 SEP 80 85 tb 41. SEP phenyl SEP CH2O SEP 1 SEP 2 2,4 SEP phenyl SEP H SEP 1 SEP CHO SEP 79 84 tb 43. SEP phenyl SEP CH2O SEP 1 SEP 1 2 SEP naphthalyl SEP H SEP 1 SEP COCH3 SEP 66 69 tb ortho positioned on Ar1. The allylic alcohols 21 40, and 42 and 44 were prepared by mild reduction ot te corresponding keto groups in compounds 1 20, 41, and 43 respectively, by the reaction of sodium borohydride as described. The melting points are given in tabular form as folios Compounds M.Pt. C. 21 111 112 22 68 70 23 70 73 24 79 80 25 76 78 26 71 72 27 93 96 28 68 71 29 38 43 30 oil 31 111 113 32 83 84 33 51 52 34 83 84 35 oil 36 50 37 202 204 38 110 113 39 46 47 40 96 98 42 101 102 44 oil HCL salt Using the foregoing procedures, compounds of formula I and II can be prepared in which Ar1 is quinolyl, indoll, benzothienyl, benzofuranyl and ben oxazolyl Crom corresponding starting compounds. The compounds of the present invention have potent activity in regulating the formation of lipoxygenease and as such possess therapeutic value in the treatment of inflammatory conditions and allergic responses such as anaphlaxis and asthma. Lipoxygenases ir....a. . .als have seen found in the lung, platelets, and white cells. They are enzymes capable of oxidizing arachidonic acid into hydroperoxyeicosatetraenoic acids HPETSs and their stable products hydroxyeicosatetraenoic acids HETEs . i oxygeneases are classified according to the position in the arachidonic acid which is oxygenated. Platelets metabolize arachidonic acid to 12 HETE, while polymorphonuclear leukocytes contain 5 and 15 lipoxygenases. It is known that 12 HETE and 5, 12 diHETE are chemotactic for human neutrophils and eosinophils, and rray augment the inflammation process. 5 H.PETE is known to be a precursor of slow reacting substance of anaphylaxis SRS A . The SRS family of molecules, such as leukotrienes B, C, and D, have been shown to be potent bronchoconstrictors see, NATURE 288, 484 486 1980 . The following protocol describes an assay to detect inhibitors of the lipoxygenase pathway. Such inhibitors are believed to be capable of modulating the biosynthesis of the leukotrienes, a property believed to be useful in treating asthma and inflammatory disease states. Protocol for Detecting Inhibitors of the LiDoxvaenase Pathway A suspension of rat neutrophils in bluffer is incubated for 3 minutes at 30 C with 14C arachidonic acid AA and Calcium lonophore A23187. Citric acid 2M is used to quench the reaction. Following the addition of a trace amount of H 5 HETE together with an excess of unlabeled 5 HETE to each tube, the mixture is extracted with chloroform methanol. The organic layer is washed with dilute acid and an aliquot is transferred to glass tubes and dried.The residue is dissolved in a small volume o chloroform and an aliquot is spotted on silica gel TLC sheets, which are developed with an ethyl acetate isooctane water acetic acid solvent system. The 5 HETE spots are visualized with iodine, cut out and placed in scintillation vials for counting.After adjusting for the extraction efficiency, the amount pmole of 14Ci 5 HETE in each of the tubes is cuantitated by substracting the net pmoles of 5 HETE in the tubes containing buffer alone blank from the moles of 5 HETE in the tubes containing buffer and cells control . The ability of the test compounds to modulate the activity of this enzyme is determined by a decrease or increase in the net amount of 5 HETE produced. Some compounds in this invention also display potent activities in regulating phospholipases and as such possess therapeutic value in the treatment of inflammatory conditions. Inflammatory responses to a variety of offending stimuli are promoted by products of arachidonic acid metabolism. These products include leukotrienes SRS AI, prostaglandins, prostacyclin and its metabolites, and thromboxanes. No matter what combination of products results from passage of substrate down the branches of this complex cascade, the initial step involves the release o arachidonic acid from phospholipids or rom triglycerides containing this long chain fattv acid 1 The enzymes catalyzing such release o arachidonic acid are a phospholipase C followed by diglyceride lipase 2, b phospholipase A2, either soluble or membrane bound3,4 and c a lipase able to degrade triglycerides that contain arachidonic acidl. Borgeat, P., M. Hamberg, znd B. Samuelson. Trans ormation of arachidonic acid and homo linolenic acid by rabbit polymorphonuclear leukocytes. J. Biol. Chem., 251 7816 7810 1976 . ê Bell, R.L., D.A. Kennerly, N. Stanford, and P.W.Majerus. Diglyceridelipase a pathway for arachidonate release from human platelets. Proc. at. Acad. Sci., U.S. 76 3238 3241 1979 . 3 Vadas, P., and J.B. Hay. The release of phospholipase A2 from aggregated platelets and stimulated macrophages of sheep. Life Sciences, 26 1721 1729 1980 . Two assays have been developed to test the ability of the invented compounds on the activity of the phospholipases. In one protocol, a procedure is described for testing the inhibitory effects of these compounds onPhospholipase C PLC , while the other protocol describes a means for testing the inhibitory effect of these compounds onPhospholipase A2 PtA2 . Protocol for In Vitro Assay for Inhlbitors of Phospholipase The PLC employed in this screen is obtained by aggregation of purified rat platelets in the presence ofCaCl2 and ADP. In the enzyme assay, phosphatidylinositol having H labeled arachidonate resides at R2 is employed as substrate. PLC acts by cleaving the phosphate ester bond yielding diglyceride as follows EMI27.1 E Phosphatidylinositol H diglyceride Inositol cont. 4 Franson, R.C., D. Eisen, R. Jesse, and C. Lanni.Inhibition of highly purified mammalian phospholipases A2 by non steroidal anti inflammatory agents, modulation by calcium ions. Biochemical J., 186 633 636 1980 . Following completion of the reaction, the assay medium is acidified and extracted with hexane which takes up unreacted substrate and diglyceride. The hexane extract is passed over a short silica gel column which retains 99 of the phosphatidylinositol. The H labeled diglyceride is not retained 95 recovery in eluate and is collected directly in scintillation counting vials. The diglyceride is conveniently quantitated by liquid scintillation spectrometry. The compounds were tested at 300 uM in a buffer containing 0.06 m4 unlabeled phosphatidylcholine PC , 20 30,000 cpm of 14C PC , 150 mbI NaCl, 5 rnD1 CaCl2 and, 50 mSl Tris hydroxymethyl methylaminopropanesulfonic acid buffer, adjusted to pH 9.0 with 1N DJaOH. The temperature of the buffer is maintained at a temperature of 37 C. The reaction was initiated by addition of the enzyme and it was terminated 10 minutes later by addition of 1 ml of 1 N HC1. Following acidification, the samples were extracted with 2 ml of isopropyl alcohol and 2 ml of hexane, vortexed and allowed to stand until the phrases separate. Free inositol and some unreacted substrate were taken up in the isopropanol saturated hexane. The hexane phase of the extraction mixture was transferred to a short silica gel column which retained unreacted phosphatidylinositol, but not 3 the H diglyceride. The column effluent was collected directly in scintillation vials. The columns were washed once with additional 2 ml of hexane. The radiolabeled diglycerides were quantitated by liquid scintillation spectrometry. Protocol for In Vitro Assay for Inhibitors of PhosDholipase An Assayed at pH 7.0 PLA The PLA2 employed in this screen is obtained by aggregation of purified rat platelets. In the enzyme assay phosphatidylcholine having 14C labeled palmitate residues at R1 and R2 is employed as substrate. PLA2 acts by cleaving the R2 fatty acid ester bond yielding free fatty acid and lysophosphatidyl choline as follows EMI29.1 14C Phosphatidyl 14C Lysophosphatidyl 14C Palmitic choline choline acid Following completion of the reaction, the assay medium is acidified and extracted with hexane, which takes up unreacted substrate and free fatty acid product. The hexane extract is passed over a short silica gel column which retains 99 of the phosphatidyl choline.The 14C labeled palmitic acid is not retained 90 recovery in eluate and is collected directly in scintillation counting vials. The released palmitic acid is conveniently quantitated by liquid scintillation spectrometry. The compounds were tested at 100 uM in a buffer containing 0.3 mM unlabeled phosphatidylcholine PC , 20 30,000 cpm of C PC0, 100 mM NaCl, 1 mM CaC12 and 50 mM Tris HCL adjusted to pH 7.2 with 1 N aOH. This resulted in a buffer at pH 7.2 The temperature of the buffer is maintained at a temperature of 37 C. The reaction was initiated by addition of te enzyme and it was terminated 30 minutes later by the additIon of 100 1 of 1 N HCL. Following acidification, the complex was extracted with 2 ml of 2 propanol and 2 ml of hexane, vortexed, and allowed to stand until the phases separated. Free fatty acids FFA and some unreacted substrate were taken up in the isopropanol saturated hexane. The hexane phase of the extraction mixture was transferred to a short silica gel column which retained unreacted PC but not the FFA. The column effluent was collected directly in scintillation vials. The columns were washed once with an additional 2 ml of hexane. The radiolabeled FFA were quantitated by liquid scintillation spectrometry. Table 3 Activities of Allvlic Alcohols PLA2 PLC Rat PMN 5 lipoxygenase Phospholipase A2 Phospholipase C compound inhibition I50 inhibition I50 inhibition I50 21 1.5 uM 120 uM 22 1 uM 90 uM 23 10 uM 24 0.3 M 100 uM 25 1.1 uM 80 uM 28 2 uM 2.3 M 32 7 uM 34 4.5 uM 37 24 uM 39 3.5 uM 31 uM 40 170 M 42 1.4 uM The results of these tests on allylic alcohols are oanulated in the above Table 3. In Table 3, the compounds are denoted by the numbers in parentheses after the name in the heading in the examples. As the data indicate, the allytic alcohols are good inhibitors of leukotrienes and phospholipases. As a result, these allylic alcohols have therapeutic value in the treatment of inflammatory conditions and allergic responses.