# Compounds having mucolytic and bronchodilating activity, a process for their preparation and pharmaceutical composition containing them as active principle.

## Abstract
Novel compounds having mucolytic and bronchodilating activity, a process for their preparation consisting in the treatment of 7 hydroxymethyl theophylline with succinis anhydride to give 7 succinoyloxymethyl theophylline, which in turn is converted in an activated derivative to carry out the condensation reaction with the corresponding thiol pharmaceutical formulations containing said compounds as active ingredients.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A compound of formula EMI9.1 wherein R is a group EMI9.2 or pharmaceutically acceptable salts of this compound. 2. A compound according to claim 1 having the formula I, wherein R is a group EMI9.3 or pharmaceuticaliy acceptable salts thereof. compound according to claim 1 having the formula I, wherein R is a group EMI9.4 or pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof. 4. A compound according to claim 1 having the formula I, wherein R is a group S CH CH SO H or pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof. 22 3 5. A compound according to claim 1 having the formula I, wherein R is a group EMI9.5 or pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof. 6. 2 theophyllin 7 yl methyloxisuccinoylthio propionamido acetic acid cr a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof. 7. Sodium 2 theophyll in 7 yl methyloxysuccinoylthio7 propionamido acetate. S. A process for the preparation of a compound according to claim 1, characterized in that an activated derivative of 7 succinoylox methyl theophilline of formula II is reacted with a thiol. 9. A process for the preparation of a compound according to claim 8, wherein the activated compound of 7 succinoiloxymethyl theophylline is mixed anhydride. 10. Dharmaceutical composition containing, as the active ingredient, a cc r.tound according to one of the claims 1 5. 11. Pharmaceutical composition according to claim 10, characterized in that it is formulated in dosing units. 12. pharmaceutical composition according to claim 11, containing 50 600 mg of active ingredient per dosing unit. 13. Pharmaceutical composition according to claim 12, containing 50 600 mg of active ingredient per dosing unit, in admixture with a pharmaceutically excipient.

## Description
Specification of the industrial patent application having the title Compounds having mucolytic and bronchodilating activity, a process for their preparation and pharmaceutical compositions containing them as active principle in the name of Proter Spa, having head office at Opera Mi Inventors Leone Dall Asta, Germano Coppi, Vanna Springolo and MarioErcole Scevola filed on 23.01.1985 to the No. 19204 A 85ABSTRACTNovel compounds having mucolytic and bronchodilating activity a process for their preparation consisting in the treatment of 7 hydroxymethyl theophylline with succinic anhydride to give 7 succinoyloxymethyl theophylline, which in turn is converted in an activated derivative to carry out the condensation reaction with the corresponding thiol pharmaceutical formulations containing said compounds as active ingredient.SPECIFICATIONThe present invention relates, according to one feature, to compounds having the formula I EMI1.1 wherein R represents the radicals EMI1.2 EMI1.3 s CH2CH2 So3H orEMI1.4 According to a further feature, the present invention relates to a process for the preparation of the compounds of formula I and possibly of the salts with inorganic or organic bases, characterized in that 7 hydroxymethyl theophylline of formula II EMI2.1 is treated with succinic anhydride to give the compound III EMI2.2 Subsequently the compound of formula III, in activated form, is reacted with the thiol derivative to give the compound of formula I.The thiol compounds used are known in the literature, particularly the 3 mercapto 2 oxo pyrrolidinacetic acid was claimed by the applicant in the Italian Patent Application No. 20315 A 84.The compound of formula II is prepared as described by K.B. Sloan andN.Bodor, Int. J.Pharm. 12, 299 1982 .The preferred way for the preparation of compound of formula I may be exemplified as follows In the first phase the 7 hydroxymethyl theophylline II is reacted with succinic anhydride the reaction takes place in a suitable solvent, such as methylene chloride, in the presence of an organic base, for instance triethylamine. The amount of succinic anhydride is in excess with respect to the calculated one such an excess may vary between 50 and 200 , the stoichiometrical amount being preferably doubled. Thus the amount of organic base used is preferably two times with respect to the moles of compound II. The reaction mixture is stirred for a time period variable between 10 minutes and 3 hours, preferably for 30 minutes at a temperature of between 0 and 50 C, preferably at 20 250C. The isolation of the compound of formula III takes place by dilution of the reaction mixture with an aqueous solution of sodium bicarbonate,so as to solubilize the compound III in form of sodium salt, and by subsequent acidification of the aqueous solution through the addition of diluted mineral acid, preferably 6N hydrochloric acid.In the subsequent phase the compound III is dissolved in a suitable solvent, such as dioxane, by adding an organic base, preferably tributylamine the salification reaction takes place at temperatures of between 200 and 1000C, preferably at 45 500C for times between of 10 minutes and 3 hours, preferably 30 minutes.The subsequent forming of the mixed anhydride takes place through the addition to the reaction mixture of an alkyl chlorocarbonate, preferably ethylchlorocarbonate, at temperatures between 100C and 300C, preferably at 5 100C, for reaction times of between 10 minutes and 3 hours, preferably 40 minutes.The condensation reaction to give the compound of formula I, wherein for example R isEMI3.1 is carried out by adding to the solution of the mixed anhyride a solution of 2 mercapto propionylglycine in form of the sodium salt in an aqueous solvent, preferably 30 dioxane. The reaction time is of between 1 hour and 12 hours, preferably 6 hours, at temperatures of between OOC and 500C, preferably at 20 250C. The isolation of the final product takes place by evaporation of the resulting solution under reduced pressure, by subsequent solubilization of the residue oil through the addition of an aqueous solution of sodium bicarbonate, by colouring and precipitating again the compound I by acidification at pH 2 through the addition of mineral acid, preferably 6N hydrochloric acid.The operations of solubilizing and then again precipitating the compound I are carried out at temperatures of between 0 and 250C, preferably at 10 150C.The compounds of formula I possess interesting pharmacological proper ties particularly they are endowed with a remarkable mucolytic, expectorant anticough, antibronchospastic, bronchodilating activity and moreover show low toxicity. More specifically in the test of in vitro mucolytic activity with a suspension of 4 mucine II Farmaco, ed.prat.33 379, 1978 , and the molar concentration being the same 0,00625 M , after hydrolysis with rat serum, the 2 E theophyllin 7 yl methyloxysuccinoylthioXpropionamido emetic acid caused a reduction of viscosity by 11,2 to take place, which is like that of tiopronin 11,5 and higher than that of N acetylcysteine 7,6 .Moreover the compounds of the present invention possess a remarkable mucolytic expectorant activity, shown in the test of fluorescein elimination in the fluid of the respiratory tract II Farmaco, ed. prat. 36, 167, 1981 , in which test, a representative compound, 2 Z7theophyllin 7 yl methyloxisuccinoylthiE7 propionamido acetic acid, demonstrated in comparison with the controls, an increase of the escretion of the colouring compound by 86 , which is not significatively different from that of tiopronin 94 , but significatively higher than that of N acetylcysteine at the same dosages 1 mM kg os and under the same experimental conditions.The anticough activity of the compounds of the present invention has been evaluated in the test of the cough induced by citric acid in the guinea pig Screening Methods in Pharmacology, R.A. Turner, Acad. Press 1965, 219 wherein a representative compound, 2 Litheophyllin 7 yl methyloxy succinoylthio7 propionamido acetic acid, demonstrated in comparison with the controls a reduction of the cough by 79 at the dose of 100 mg kg i.p. which is not significatively different from that obtained with codeine phosphate at the dose of 5 mg kg i.p. 87 . The antibronchospastic activity of the compounds of the present invention has been evaluated in the test of the shock induced by histamine in the guinea pig Screening Methods in Pharmacology, R.A. Turner, Acad. Press 1965, 214 wherein a representative compound, 2 theophyllin 7 yl methoxysuc inoylthit7 propionamido acetic acid, demonstrated an increase of the shock resistance from 99.8 9.6 seconds to 291.7 43.2 seconds likewise theophylline from 133.5 24.9 seconds to 316.8 27.3 seconds at the same dose 0.25 mM kg i.p. . The bronchodilating antibronchospastic activity of the compounds of the present invention has been evaluated by means of the Konzett Rbssler test Arch. exp. Path. Pharmakol. 195, 171, 1940 in the guinea pig. A representative compound of formula I, the 2 theophyllin 7 yl methoxy succinoylthio7 propionamido acetic acid, demonstrated that it possesses against the spasm induced by acetylcholine 10 mcg kg e.v. an ED50 of 0.0623 mM kg e.v. 0.0276 0.1406 , like that of theophylline of 0.0395 mM kg e.v. 0.0149 0.01041 and on the contrary, surprisingly, against the spasm induced by histamine 2 mcg kg e.v. , an ED of 0.0345 50 mM kg e.v. 0.0133 0,893 which is definitely and significatively lower than that of theophylline 0.1026 0.0508 0.2072 .The bronchodilating activity of the compounds of formula I is consequently definitely higher than that of theophylline.The compounds of the present invention show a low acute toxicity the representative compound, 2 theophyllin 7 yl methyloxysuccinoylthi propionamido acetic acid, shows in female mouse a LD50 value by i.p.route of 481 mg kg.Thanks to their pharmacological properties and to the low toxicity, the compounds of formula I and their possible pharmaceutically acceptable salt may be used as drugs in the treatment of diseases of the respiratory tract.Thus the present invention relates, according to a further feature, to pharmaceutical compositions containing, as the active ingredients, the compounds of formula I or their pharmaceutical acceptable salts for the administration by aerosol, parenteral, oral and rectal route in form of vials, oral suspensions, capsules, tablets, envelopes or suppositories.Examples of pharmaceutical formulations according to the invention comprise vials containing 50 to 400 mg of active ingredient syrup containing 100 to 500 mg of active principles per dose capsules of hard gelatin or Scherer type containing 100 to 500 mg of active ingredient small envelopes containing 100 to 500 mg of active ingredient in a suitable excipient suppositories containing 50 to 600 mg of active ingredient in suitable vehicles for nepiological , pediatric and for adult use.The daily dosage does vary between 100 and 2000 mg of active ingredient in the treatment of diseases of the respiratory tract, particularly asthma, bronchitis, tracheobronchitis, pharyngitis , etc.The following examples, having non limiting purposes, illustrate the invention. EXAMPLE 1 140 g 0.66 moles of 7 hydroxymethyl theophylline are suspended in 1400 ml of methylene chloride and under stirring 185.3 ml 1.33 moles of triethylamine are added. Subsequently 133 g 1.33 moles of succinic anhydride suspended in 140C ml of methylene chloride are added after 10 minutes of stirring a clear solution is obtained, which, after TLC monitoring eluant ethylacetate methano5 acetic acid 80 10 10 v v v , is evaporated under reduced pressure at 3C 35 C. The residue is taken with a 2.5 ,z v sodium bicarbonate aqueous solution until a complete solubilization is obtained about 5 litres of solution .After decolouration and filtration, the solution is slowly added with 6N hydrochloric acid up to pH 4.7 the solid product is filtered, washed with water, dried in air and lastly under vacuum at 400C. There are obtained 16 6 g 81 of 7 succinoyloxymethyl theophylline, in form of a white product having p.f. 101 102 C dec. .Analytical data for C12H14N4O6 M.W. 310.272 Calculated C 46.45 H 4.55 N 18.06Found 9 C 46.7 H 4.48 N 1S.1 The IR KBr and H Nx R DMSO d spectra are into agreement with the 6 propose structure. EXAMPLE 2 2500 ml of dioxane are added with 125 g 0.403 moles of 7 succinoyloxymethyl theophylline and then under stirring 95.75 ml 0.401 moles of tributylamine are added.The reaction mixture is heated to 45 50 C for 30 minutes and a clear solution is obtained after cooling to 100C, 38.25 ml 0.401 moles of ethylchlorocarbonate, are added keeping the temperature at 5 100C.The mixture is maintained under stirring at 5 100C for 40 minutes, then at the same temperature a solution of 74.5 g 0.402 moles of scdium salt of 2 mercapto propionylglicine in 400 ral of water and 185 ml of dioxane is added.Upon the addition is completed, the temperature increases over 6 hours to 20 250C, then the mixture is maintained at rest for 15 hours at 50C the solution is evaporated under reduced pressure until an oil is obtained, which is taken with 200 ml of water and brought to pH 7.5 8 through the addition of a 5 w v aqueous solution of sodium bicarbonate.The opalescent solution is added with decolouring carbon, filtered and made acidic at pH 2 through the addition of 6N hydrochloric acid, the temperature teing maintained at 10 150C. The mixture is cooled to 50C and stirred for 15 minutes, then maintained at 50C for 18 hours.The white solid product is filtered and washed with cold water until the chlorides disappear. It is dried in air, then under vacuum at 300C in the presence of phosphoric anhydride. 111 g 61 of 2 f theophyllin 7 yl methyloxysuccinoylthi 7 propionamido acetic acid are obtained, in form of a crystalline product having p.f. 115 1230C dec. . Analytical data for C H N 0 S MW. 455.454 . 17 21 5 8Calculated C 44.83 H 4.65 N 15.38 S 7.04Found C 44.47 H 4.72 N 15.41 S 7.11The IR KBr and H NeR DMSO d6 spectra are into agreement with foreseen structure.o a solution of 9.1 g 0.02 moles of the thus obtained product in 45 ml of ethyl acetate 20 ml of a 1 m solution of ethyl hexanoate in ethyl ace tate are added. After 30 minutes stirring, the mixture is cooled to 50C, filtered, washed with ethyl acetate and dried under vacuum at 35 C.There are obtained 8.95 g 938 of sodium 2 theophyllin 7 yl methyloxy succinoylthio propionamido acetate in white crystalline form.