# Peptidylaminodiols.

## Abstract
The invention relates to the renin inhibiting compounds of the formula CHEM wherein R10 is CHEM A is hydrogen or an N protecting group w is 0 or 1 B is hydrogen, hydroxy, NH, N alkyl, loweralkyl or arylalkyl with the proviso that when w is 1, B is NH and when w is 0, B is hydrogen, hydroxy, loweralkyl or arylalkyl R1 is loweralkyl or lipophilic or aromatic or hydrophilic amino acid side chains m is 1 3 n is 1 3 p is 1 3 q is 1 3 s is 1 3 t is 0 2 R2 is hydrogen or loweralkyl R3 and R4 are independently selected from loweralkyl, lipophilic or aromatic amino acid side chains R5 and R7 are independently selected from hydrogen or loweralkyl and R6 is hydrogen, loweralkyl, vinyl, arylalkyl or wherein R8 is hydrogen or loweralkyl, X is O, NH or S and R9 is hydrogen, loweralkyl or alkanoyl or XR9 together can be loweralkylsulfonyl, N3 or Cl.

## Claims
CLAMS 1. n renin inhibiting compound of the formulaEMI54.1 wherein Rlo isEMI54.2 n is hydrogen or an N protecting group w is O or 1 B is hydrogen, hydroxy, NH, N alkyl, loweralkyl or arylalky with the proviso that when w is 1, B is NH and when w is 0, B is hydrogen, hydroxy, loweralkyl or arylalkyl R1 is loweralkyl or lipophilic or aromatic or hydrophilic amino acid side chains m is 1 3 n is 1 3 p is 1 3 q is 1 3 s is 1 3 t is 0 2 R2 is hydrogen or loweralkyl R3 and R4 are independently selected from loweralkyl, lipophilic or aromatic amino acid side chains R5 and R7 are independently selected from hydrogen or loweralkyl and R is hydrogen, loweralkyl, vinyl, arylalkyl orEMI54.3 wherein R8 is hydrogen or loweralkyl, X is 0, NH or S and Rg is hydrogen, loweralkyl or alkanoyl or XR9 together can be loweralkylsulfonyl, N3 or Cl and pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof. 2. The renin inhibiting compounds of Claim 1 wherein R10 isEMI55.1 7 is hydrogen and R6 isEMI55.2 3. The renin inhibiting v Found of Claim 2 wherein w is 1 B is NH, R1 is benzyl, 4 methoxybenzyl or isobutyl R2 is hydrogen R3 is loweralkyl, 4 imidazoyl methyl or 3 pyrazoyl methyl R4 is loweralkyl or cycloalkylmethyl and R5 is hydrogen. 4. The renin inhibiting compounds of Claim 1 wherein R10 isEMI55.3 and R6 is hydrogen, loweralkyl, uinyl or arylalkyl. 5. The renin inhibiting compounds of Claim 4 wherein n is t butyloxycarbonyl, t butylacetyl or ethoxycarbonyl w is 1 B is NH R1 is benzyl, cyclohexylmethyl, 4 methox ybenzyl, 1 naphthyl methyl or isobutyl R2 is hydrogen or methyl R3 is methyl, 4 imidazoyl methyl, benzyl, 3 pyrazoyl methyl, methylmercapto methyl or isobutyl R4 is isobutyl or cyclohexylmethyl R5 is hydrogen or isopentyl R6 is hydrogen, loweralkyl, uinyl or benzyl and R7 is hydrogen or ethyl. 6. The renin inhibiting compounds of Claim 5 wherein n is ethoxycarbonyl R1 is 4 methoxy benzyl R2 is hydrogen R3 is 4 imidazoyl methyl R4 is cyclohexylmethyl R5 and R7 are hydrogen and R6 is isobutyl. 7. The renin inhibiting compounds of Claim 5 wherein Q is ethoxycarbonyl R1 is benzyl R2, R5 and R7 are hydrogen R3 is 4 imidazoyl methyl R4 is cyclohexylmethyl and R6 is isobutyl. 8. The renin inhibiting compounds of Claim 5 wherein n is ethoxycarbonyl R1 is benzyl R2, R5 and R7 are hydrogen R3 and R6 are isobutyl andR4 is cyclohexylmethyl. 9. The renin inhibiting compounds of Claim 1 wherein R1O isEMI56.1 R4 is cjzlohexylmethyl R5 and R7 are hydrogen and R6 is loweralkyl. 10. The renin inhibiting compound of Claim 9 wherein R10 isEMI56.2 Q is ethoxycarbonyl n is 1 and m is 2. 11. The renin inhibiting compound of Claim 9 wherein R10 isEMI56.3 n is hydrogen and R1 is methyl. 12. n pharmaceutical composition for treating renin associated hypertension, comprising a pharmaceutical carrier and a therapeutically effective amount of the compound of Claim 1. 13. n method of treating hypertension comprising administering to a host in need of such treatment a therapeutically effective amount of a compound of Claim 1.

## Description
PEPTIDYLAMINODIOLSTechnical Field This is a continuation in part of U.S. patent application, Serial No. 693,951, filed January 23, 1965. The present invention relates to novel organic compounds which inhibit renin, processes for making such compound, synthetic intermediates employed in these processes and method of treating hypertension with such compounds.Background Art Renin is a proteolytic enzyme synthesized and stored principally in a specific part of the kidney called the juxtaglomerular apparatus. Any of three different physiologic circumstances may cause the release of renin into the circulation a a decrease in the blood pressure entering or within the kidney itself b a decrease in the blood volume in the body or c a fall in the concentration of sodium in the distal tubules of the kidney. When renin is released into the blood from the kidney, the renin angiotensin system is activated, leading to vasoconstriction and conseruation of sodium, both of which result in increased blood pressure. The renin acts on a circulating protein, angiotensinogen, to cleave out a fragment called angiotensin I tRI . . itself has only slight pharmacolog.ic activity but, after additional cleavage by a second enzyme, angiotensin converting enzyme ACE , forms the potent molecule angiotensin II RII . The major pharmacological effects of RII are vasoconstriction and stimulation of the adrenal cortex to release aldosterone, a hormone which causes sodium retention. RII is cleaued by an aminopeptidase to form angiotensin III AIII , which, compared to flil, is a less potent vasoconstrictor but a more potent inducer of aldosterone release. Inhibitors of renin have been sought as agents for control of hypertension and as diagnostic agents for identification of cases of hypertension due to renin excess. With these objectives in mind, the renin angiotension system has been modulated or manipulated, in the past, with nCE inhibitors. However, SCE acts on several substrates other than angiotensin I ni most notably the kinins which cause such undesirable side effec ts as pain, leaky capillaries, prostaglandin release and a variety of behavioral and neurologic effects. Further, ACE inhibition leads to the accumulation of ni. Although ni has much less vasoconstrictor activity than NISI, its presence may negate some of the hypotensiue effects of the blockade of AII synthesis. Inhibition of other targets in the renin angiotensin system such as AII with compounds such as saralasin can block nil activity, but would leaue unimpaired and perhaps enhance the hypertensive effects of NISI. On the other wand, there are no known side effects which result when renin is inhibited from acting on its substrate. Considerable research efforts have thus been carried out to develop useful inhibitors of renin. Past research efforts have been directed to renin antibodies, pepstatin, phospholipids and substrate analogs such as tetrapeptides and octapeptides to tridecapeptides. These inhibitors either demonstrate poor activity in inhibiting renin production or poor specificity for inhibiting renin only. However, Boger et al. have reported that statine containing peptides possess potent and specific renin inhibiting activity Nature, Vol. 303, p. 81, 1983 .In addition, Szelke and co workers have described polypeptide analogs containing a non peptide link Nature, Vol. 299, p. 555, 1982 which also cause potent renin inhibition and show a high specificity for this enzyme.Disclosure of the Invention In accordance with the present invention, there are renin inhibiting compounds of the formula EMI3.1 wherein R 10 isEMI3.2 fl is hydrogen or an N protecting group w is O or 1 B is hydrogen, hydroxy, NH, N alkyl, loweralkyl or arylalkyl with the proviso that when w is 1, B is NH and when w is 0, B is hydrogen, hydroxy, loweralkyl or arylalkyl R1 is loweralkyl or lipophilic or aromatic or hydrophilic amino acid side chains m is 1 3 n is 1 3 p is 1 3 q is 1 3 s is 1 3 t is 0 2 R2 is hydrogen or loweralkyl R3 and R4 are independently selected from loweralkyl, lipophilic or aromatic amino acid side chains R 5 and R7 are indepndently selected from hydrogen or loweralkyl and R6 is hydrogen, loweralkyl, uinyl, arylalkyl orEMI3.3 wherein R8 is hydrogen or loweralkyl, X i u, NH or S and Rg is hydrogen, loweralkyl or alkanoyl or XR9 together can be loweralkylsulfonyl, N3 or Cl. The chiral centers of the compounds of the invention may have either the R or S configuration but preferably have an S configuration except where noted. The term N protecting group as used herein refers to those groups intended to protect theN terminus against undesirable reactions during synthetic procedures or to prevent the attack oF exopeptidases on the final compounds or to increase the solubility of the final compounds and includes but is not limited to acyl, acetyl, piualoyl, t butylacetyl, t butyloxycarbonyl Boc , carbobenzyloxycarbonyl or benzoyl groups or an L or D aminoacyl residue, which may itself be N protected similarly. The term loweralkyl as used herein refers to straight or branched chain alkyl radicals containing from 1 to 6 carbon atoms including but not limited to methyl, ethyl, n propyl, iso propyl, n butyl, iso butyl, sec butyl, 2 methylhexyl, n pentyl, 1 methylbutyl, 2,2 dimethylbutyl, 2 methylpentyl, 2,2 dimethylpropyl, n hexyl and the like. The term arylalkyl as used herein refers to an unsubstituted or substituted aromatic ring appended to an alkyl radical including but not limited to benzyl, 1 and 2 naphthylmethyl, halobenzyl and alkoxybenzyl. The term alkanoyl as used herein refers to an acyl radical which has appended to it an alkyl radical. The term cycloalkylalkyl as used herein refers to an alicyclic residue appended to an alkyl radical and includes but is not limited to cyclohexylmethyl and cyclopentylmethyl. The term lipophilic or aromatic amino acid side chains as used herein refers to those amino acid side chains which have an affinity for lipids or have an aromatic ring and include but are not limited to isobutyl, isopropyl, sec butyl, benzyl, imidazole 4 yl methyl, p hydroxybenzyl, 1 and 2 naphthylmethyl, and cyclohexylmethyl. The term hydrophilic amino acid side chains as used herein refers to those amino acid side chains which have an affinity for water and include but are not limited to hydroxymethyl, hydroxyethyl, hydroxypropyl, hydroxybutyl, aminomethyl, aminoethyl, aminopropyl, and aminobutyl. General reference to amino acid side chains in both the description and claims herein is to be taken as reference to such, whether naturally occurring in proteins or not, and to both D and L forms. The terms Ala , His , Leu , Phe Tyr , and Cys as used herein refer to alamine, histidine, leucine, phenylalanine, tyrosine and cysteine, respectively. The following Examples will serve to further illustrate preparation of the novel compounds of the invention. Example 1 4 5 t Butyloxycarbonylamino 5 cyclohexyl 3 R , S hydroxy I pentene To a stirred 780C solution ofBoc cyclohexylalanine methyl ester 10.2 g, 35.8 mmol in dry toluene 60 ml was added,diisobutylaluminum hydride 34 ml of a 1.5 M solution in toluene . after 30 min., uinyl magnesium bromide 108 ml of 1 M solution in tetrahydrofuran THF was added. Rafter stirring for 15 hours at OOC, the mixture was carefully quenched with methanol, treated with Rochelle salts .22 ml of saturated aqueous solution in 140 ml H20 , and filtered.After extracting the solids 5 times with ethyl acetate, the extracts and filtrate were combined and the organic phase was washed with brine, dried, filtered and evaporated to an oil 10.2 g .Chromatography on silica gel eluting with hexane ethyl acetate mixtures provided 6.1 g 60 of the desired product. Final. calcd. for 29N 3 1 4HO C, 66.8 H, 10.3 N, 4.9. Found C,66.9 H, 10.2 N, 4.7. Example 2 4 S Cvclohexvimethyl 5 R,S uinyl 2 oxazolidinone The resultant product of Example 1 2.80 g, 9.88 mmol in dry dimethylformamide DMF 50 ml was added to a stirred suspension of NaH 593 mg of a 60 dispersion in oil, 14.8 mmol, hexane washed in dry DMF 50 ml . After 3 hours, the mixture was quenched 750 ml water 100 ml brine and extracted with ether 5 x 100 ml . The combined organic phase was washed with brine 3 x 50 ml , drie.d MgSO4 , filtered and evaporated to an oil 2.23 g . The NMR spectrum of the crude product revealed an 82 18 mixture of 5 S 5 R diastereomers. Silica gel chromatography gave 80 recouery of pure diastereomers. 5 S Anal. calcd. for C12HlgNO2 C, 68.9 H, 9.1 N, 6.7. Found C, 68.4 H, 9.2 N, 6.5.Mass spectrum M 1 210. 5 R Mass spectrum M 1 210. Example 3 3S,4S 3 vdroxy 4 amino 5 cvclohexyl 1 pentene To the resultant 5S diasteriomer from Example 2 2.06 g, 9.84 mmol in dioxane 180 mL and water 120 mL was added barium hydroxide octahydrate 6.24 9, 19.8 mmol . The mixture was refluxed for 18 hours, cooled, filtered, concentrated, taken up in water and extracted with ethyl acetate which was dried over Na 2S04 and evaporated to afford 1.64 g 91 of the desired product, m.p. 59 610C. Final. calcd. for C 11H21NO C, 72.08 H, 11.55 N, 7.64. Found C, 71.67 H, 11.68 N, 7.36. Example 4 L3S,4C 3Fydr.oxv4tertbutoxycarbonylamino S cyclohexyl 1 e To the resultant compound from Example 3 1.62 g, 8.84 mmol in methylene chloride 20 mL was added di tert butyldicarbonate 1.93 g, 8.84 mmol . The mixture was stirred for 14 hours, diluted with ethyl acetate, washed sequentially with 0.5 M H3 PO4, saturated NaHCO3 solution and brine, then dried over Na2SO4 and evaporated to afford 2.51 g 100 of the desired compound. Example 5 3S,4S 3 tert Butyldimethylsilyloxy 4 tert butoxycarbonylamino 5 cyclohexyl 1 pentene To the resultant compound from Example 4 0.264 g, 0.932 rnmol in DMF 4 mL was added tert butyidilnethylsilyl chloride 0.300 g, 1.99 nmol and imidazole 0.269 g, 3.95 rnmol . The mixture was stirred at room temperature for 12 hours, poured into ethyl acetate and washed sequentially with 0.5 M H3P04, saturated NaHC03 solution and brine, then dried over Na2SO4 and evaporated to afford 0.355 g 96 of the desired compound. Mass spectrum M H 398. Example 6 2RS,3R,4S 3 tert Butyldimethylsilyloxy 4 tert butoxycarbonylamino 5 cyclohexyl 1, 2 oxopentane The resultant compound from Example 5 0.355 g, 0.893 mrnol in methylene chloride 8 mL was treated with m chloroperbenzoic acid 0.758 g, 3.51 rnmol and stirred at ambient temperature for 14 hours. The mixture was concentrated, dissolved in ethyl acetate, washed sequentially with cold 10 aqueous Na2S03 solution, saturated NaHC03 solution and brine, and then dried over Na2 SO4 and evaporated to afford 0.374 g 100 of the desired compound. Mass spectrum M H 404. Example 7 2RS,3R,4S 3 Hydroxv 4 tert butoxvcarbonYlamino 5 cyclohexyl 1 , 2 oxopentane The resultant compound from Example 6 2.10 g, 5.07 mmol was treated with 1 M tetrabutylammonium fluoride in tetrahydrofuran 10 mL . The mixture was stirred at O C for 1 hour, poured into ethyl acetate, washed with water and brine, then dried over Na 2S04 and evaporated. Chromatography on silica gel 0.5 methanol in chloroform afforded 1.13 g 74 of the desired compound. Mass spectrum M H 300. Example 8 2S,3R,4S 1 Azido 2,3 dihydroy 4 tert butoxycarbonylamino 5 cyclohexylentane The resultant compound from Example 7 1.12 g, 3.74 mmol , ammonium chloride 0.374 g, 6.98 mmol and sodium azide 0.580 g, 8.92 mmol were refluxed in methanol 25 mL for 12 hours. The mixture was concentrated, then taken up in ethyl acetate, washed with water and brine, dried over Na2S04 and evaporated. Chromatography on silica gel 20 ether in hexane afforded 0.461 g 36 of the desired compound followed by 0.323 g 25 of the 4 R isomer. 4S Diasteriomer m.p. 93 940C. 4R Diasteriorner mass spectrum M H 343. Example .9 12S,3R,4S 1 Amino 2,3 dihydroxy 4 tert butoxycarbonylamino 5 cyclohexylpentane The resultant compound from Example 8 107 mg, 0.313 mmol and 10 palladium on carbon 110 mg in methanol 10 mL were stirred under a hydrogen atmosphere for 18 hours. The mixture was filtered and evaporated to afford 94.6 mg 96 of the desired compound. Mass spectrum M H 317. Example 10 2S,3R,4S 1 3 Methylbutylcarbonylamino 2, 3 d1.hydroxy 4 tert butyloxycarbonylamino 5 c yclohexylpentane To the resultant compound from Example 9 94.6 mg, 0.299 mol in methylene chloride 5 mL at O C was added 4 methylpentanoyl chloride 52 l, 0.37 mmol and triethylarnine 71 l, 0.51 mmol . The mixture was stirred at OoC for 90 min, diluted with ethyl acetate, washed sequentially with 0.5 M H3PO4 solution, 2 MNaOH solution and brine, and then dried over Na2S04 and evaporated to afford 0.118 g 95 of the desired compound, m.p. 179 1830C. Exact mass calcd. for C22H43N205 415.3172. Found 415.3166. Example 11 2S,3R,4S 1 IsobutylsulfonYlamino 2,3 dihydroXv 4 tert butoxycarbonylamino 5 cyclohexylpentane Using the procedure of Example 10 and isobutylsulfonyl chloride rather than 4 methylpentanoyl chloride gave the desired compound. Mass spectrum M H 437. Example 12 Boc Phe d,l 3 pyrazolylalanine Methyl Ester To dl 3 pyrazolylalanine methyl ester dihydrochloride 2.05 g, 8.5 mmol in DMF 10 mL at 100C was added Boc Phe N hydroxysuccinimide ester 2.50 g, 6.90 mmol and N methylmorpholine 2.8 mL, 25 mmol .The mixture was stirred at 100C for 1 hour and then at 250C for 12 hours. The mixture was partitioned between ethyl acetate and saturated NaHC03 solution, and extracted with ethyl acetate which was washed with water, dried over Na2S04 and evaporated to afford 2.75 g 95 of the desired product. Canal calcd for C21 H28N405 0 2H2O C, 59.92 H, 6.82 N, 13.31. Found C, 59.82 H, 6.75 N, 13.13. Example 13 Boc Phe d, 1 3 pyrazolylalanine Boc Phe dl 3 pyrazolylalanine methyl ester 0.210 g, 0.505 mmol in dioxane 1.5 mL and water 1.0 mL was treated with lithium hydroxide monohydrate 0.0272 g, 0.648 mmol , stirred at 250C for 30 minutes and quenched with 0.32 mL 2 M HCl. The mixture was poured into chloroform, washed with water, dried overNa2S04 and evaporated to afford 0.184 g 91 of the desired compound. Anal. calcd. for C20H26N405O. 25H2OC, 59.03 H, 6.56 N, 13.77. Found C, 58.66 H, 6.70 N, 13.65. Example 14 Boc Phe His side of 2S,3R,4S 1 3 Methylbutylcarbonylamino 2,3 dihydro 4 amino 5 cclohexylpentane The resultant compound from Example 10 57.0 mg, 0.138 mmol was stirred in 4 M HCl dioxane 1.5 mL for 1 hour and evaporated. The residue was dissolved in dimethylformamide 0.9 mL and treated withN methylmorpholine 33 4, 0.30 mmol . To Boc Phe His OH 59.1 mg, 0.147 mmol and 1 hydroxybenzotriazole 58.0 mg, 0.429 mmol in dimethylformarnide O. 8 mL at 230C was added 1 3dimethylaminopropyl 3 ethylcarbodiimide hydrochloride EDUC, 28.7 mg, 0.10 mmol . After stirring at 230C for 1 hour, the amine solution was added and the reaction was stirred at 230C for 2 hours then at room temperature for 12 hours. The mixture was poured into saturated NaHC03 solution and extracted with ethyl acetate which was washed with water and brine, then dried over Na2 SO4 and evaporated. Chromatography of the residue on silica gel 3 methanol in chloroform afforded 21.5 mg 22 of the desired compound, m.p.194 1960C. Example 15 Boc Phe d l 3rpyrazolylalanine nmide of 2S,3R,4S 1 3 Met hy Ibutylcarbonylamino 2,3 dthydroxy 4 amino 5 cyclohexylpentane Using the procedure of Example 14 and Boc Phe d,l 3 pyrazolylalanine OH rather thanBoc Phe His OH afforded the desired compound. Canal calcd for C37 H58N607 0. 5H20 C, 62.78 H, 8.40 N, 11.87. Found C, 62.51 H, 8.17 N, 11.52. Example 16 Boc Phe His Amide of 2S,3R,4S 1 Isobutylsulfonylamino 2,3 dihydroxy 4 amino 5 cyclohexylpentane Using the procedure of Example 14 with the resultant compound from Example 11 afforded the desired compound, m.p. 94 970C. Mass spectrum M H 721. Example 17 Boc Phe His Amide of 2S,3R,4S 1 Azido 2,3 dihydroxy 4 amino 5 cyclohexlpentane Using the procedure of Example 14 with the resultant compound from Example 8 afforded the desired compound, m. p . 158 1630C. Mass spectrum M H 480. Example 18 Boc His flmide of 2S,3R,4S 1 nzido 2,3 dihydroxy 4 amino 5 cyclohexylpentane Using the procedure of Example 14 with the resultant compound from Example 8 and using Boc His OH rather than Boc Phe His OH afforded the desired compound. Mass spectrum M H 657. Example 19 Boc O methyl Tyr His Amide of 2S,3R,4S 1 nzido 2, 3 dihydroxy 4 amino 5 cyclohexylpentane Using the procedure of Example 14 with the resultant compound from Example 18 and using Boc O methyl Tyr OH rather than Boc Phe His OH afforded the desired compound, m.p. 171 1730C. Mass spectrum M H 561. Example 20 Boc Phe Ala OH flmide of 2S,3R,4S 1 Azido 2,3 dihydroxy 4 amino 5 cyclohexylpentane The resultant compound from Example 8 53.0 mg, 0.155 mmol was stirred in 4 M HCl dioxane for 1 hour and evaporated. The residue was taken up in tetra hydrofuran 3 mL , treated with N methylmorpholine 18 1, 0.16 mmol and cooled to OOC. To Boc Phe flla OH 58.0 mg, 0.172 mmol in tetrahydrofuran 2 mL at 120C was added N methylmorpholine 19 pl, 0.17 mmol followed by isobutylchloroformate 22 p1, 0.17 mmol . After 3 minutes the amine solution was added and the mixture was stirred for 15 minutes at 120C and 2 hours at room temperature. The mixture was diluted with ethyl acetate and washed sequentially with 0.5 M H3 P04, saturated NaHC03 solution and brine, then dried over Na2 SO4 and evaporated. Chromatography of the residue on silica gel 3 methanol in chloroform afforded 86.8 mg 100 of the desired compound. Mass spectrum M H 561. Example 21 4 S Cvclohexvim hyl 5iR2 C1 R,S t 2 oxoethyl 2 oxazolidinone To a stirred solution of the 5 R diastereomer of Example 2 0.40 g, 1.9 mmol in dichloromethane 13 ml was added 3 chloroperoxybenzoic acid 500 MX . Rfter 5 days, the mixture was diluted with ether and washed with 1 M Na2S03, saturated K2C03 and brine. Drying and evaporation provided the desired product 0.34 g, 80 . Mass spectrum M 225. Example 22 4 S Cyclohexylmethvl 5 R 1 R,S hydroxy 2 isoprylmercapto ethyl 2 oxazolidinone To a stirred solution of the resultant product of Example 21 0.31 g, 1.38 mmol in methanol were added triethylamine 0.19 ml and isopropyl mercaptan 105 mg . The mixture was heated at 50 600C overnight, evaporated and chromatographed on silica gel eluting with ethyl acetate hexane mixtures to give the 1 R isomer 110 mg, 27 , the 1 S isomer 70 mg, 17 and mixed fractions 110 mg, 27 . Mass spectrum of 1 R isomer M 301. Mass spectrum of 1 S isomer M 301. Example 23 4 S amino 5 cvelohexylmethvl 2 R,S ,3 R dihVdroxy l isopropylmercaptopentane The 1 R,S mixture of Example 22 100 mg, 0.33 mmol and Ba OH 8 H20 209 mg, 0.66 mmol were refluxed in 1 1, dioxane water 8 ml, degassed for 7 hours. The mixture was then diluted with dioxane, filtered, evaporated, dissolved in dichloromethane, filtered and evaporated. Silica gel chromatography provided 86 mg 96 of the desired product. Example 2 Boc Phe His flmide of 4 S oamino 5 cyclohexylmethyl 2 R ,3 R dihydroxy 1 isopropylmercapentane and Boc Phe His flmide of 4 S amino 5 cyclohexylmethyl 2 S ,3 R dihydroxy 1 isopropvlmercaptopentane The Boc Phe His coupling procedure of Example 14 was used, except the amine hydrochloride andN methylmorpholine were replaced with the resultant product of Example 23, and EDNC was replaced with 1,3 dicyclohexylcarbodiimide DDC . Separation was achieved on silica gel 9 1, CH2Cl2 CH30H to give 20 yield of the desired compounds. Final. calcd. for 2 R isomer C34H53N506S 3 4H20 C, 60.7 H, 8.2 N, 10.4. Found C, 60.8 H, 8.2 N, 9.8. FNB mass spectrum M 1 660. Anal. calcd. for 2 S isomer C34H53N506S 1 2H20 C, 61.0 H, 8.1 N, 10.4. Found C, 60.9 H, 8.3 N, 10.0 FNB mass spectrum M 1 660. Example 25 Boc Phe His Amide of 4 S amino 5 cvclohexylmethyl 2 R ,3 R dihydroxy 1 tisopropvlsulfonyl pentane fl solution of the 2 R isomer from Example 24 10 mg, 0.015 mmol in dichloromethane was treated with 3 chloroperoxybenzoic acid 5.2 mg, 200 M for 3 hours. The desired compound was isolated in 92 yield after silica gel chromatography 9 1, dichloroethane methanol . FNB mass spectrum M l 692. Example 26 4 S Cyclohexylmethyl 5 R 1R,S hydroxy 2 isopropyloxv ethyll 2 oxazolidinone A solution of the resultant product of Example 21 0.22 g, 1.0 mmol in dimethylformamide DMF, 1.0 mL was added to a stirred solution of sodium isopropoxide 2.0 mmol in DMF 9.0 mL . AFter warming for 24 hours, the mixture was evaporated and then partitioned between 1 M HCl and ethyl acetate. The organic phase was washed aq. NaHCV3 and brine. Drying and evaporating gave the desired alcohols in 62 yield. Example 27 Boc Phe His flmide of 4 S Amino 5 cyclohexylmethyl 2 R ,3 R dihydroxy 1 isopropyloxypentane and Boc Phe His nide of 4 S Rmino 5 cvclohexylmethyl S ,3 R dihydroxy l isqpropyloxpentan The 1 R,S mixture of Example 26 was hydrolyzed according to the procedure of Example 23 to give the desired arnines which were coupled to Boc Phe His according to the procedure of Example 24. Separation was achieved on silica gel 9 1, CH2Cl2 CH30H to give 22 yield of the desired compounds. Example 28 Ethoxycarbonyl Leu Leu Rmide of 4 S Amino 5 cyclohexyl 3 R,S hydroxy 1 pentene The resultant product of Example 1 1.05 g, 3.70 mmol was dissolved in anhydrous 2.2 M HCl CH30H 70 ml . Evaporation after 16 hours gave the corresponding amine hydrochloride. To a stirred 13QC solution of ethoxycarbonyl Leu Leu OH 1.17 g, 3.70 mmol in anhydrous tetrahydrofuran 37 mL were addedN methylmorpholine NMM, 0.41 mL and isobutyl chloroformate 0.50 g . AFter 3 minutes, a 130C TIF solution of NMM 0.41 mL and the aboue amine hydrochloride were added. The mixture was warmed to room temperature for 6 hours and then partitioned between ethyl acetate 60 mL and 1 M H3P04 15 mL . The organic phase was washed with water, aq.NaHC03 and brine. Drying and evaporating provided 1.76 g 99 of the desired product. Mass spectrum M 481. Final. calcd. for C26H47N305 C, 64.8 H, 9.8 N, 8.7. Found C, 64.6 H, 10.1 N, 8.5 Example 29 Ethoxycarbonyl Leu Leu flmide of 4 S amino 5 cvclohexyl 3 R,S hydroxv 1,2 R,S oxopentane To a stirred solution of the product of Example 28 350 mg, 0.727 mmol in dichloromethane 12 mL was added 3 chloroperoxybenzoic acid. Rfter 48 hours, the solution was partitioned between ether 28 mL and 1 MNa2S03 3 mL . The layers were separated, and the organic phase was washed with 1 M Na2S03, water, saturated NaHC03 and brine. Drying Na2S04 and evaporating provided 0.341 g of the hydroxy epoxide mixture which was used without further purification. Example 30 Ethoxycarbonyl Leu Leu flmide of 4 S mino l chloro 5 cvclohexvl 2 R,S ,3 R,S dihvdroxypentane To 200 mg 0.402 mmol of the resultant product of Example 29 was added 4 M HCl in anhydrous dioxane 5 ml . After 1 hour, the homogeneous solution was evaporated in vacuo. Chromatography provided the diols in a combined 60 yield. Example 31 Boc Phe Ala Amide 4 amino of 2S,3R,4S 1,4 Diamino 2, 3 dihydroxy 5 cyclohexylentane n solution of the resultant compound of Example 20 59.3 mg, 0.106 mmol in methanol 4 ml was hydrogenated at atmospheric pressure 10 Pd C for 16 hours. Filtration and evaporation provided 49 mg 87 of the desired coinpound. Mass spectrum M H , 535. Example 32 Ethoxyarbonyl Leu Leu Aside of 2RS,3RS,4S mino 5 clohexyl 1 2,3 trihydroxypentane To a stirred solution of the resultant compound of Example 28 200 mg, 0.415 mmol , N methylmorpholineN oxide 112 mg , and Os04 0.13 ml of a 2.5 w v solution in t butanol in THF 10 ml was added water 1 ml . Rafter 16 hours, brine was added, and the mixture was extracted exhaustively with ether. The cornbined organic phase was washed sequentially with 10 aq. Na2SO3, 1 M H3 PO4, and brine. The solution was dried Na2S04 , filtered, and evaporated to give 205 mg 96 of the desired product as a glassy solid. Mass spectrum M H 516. Example 33 2 S t Butyloxycarbonylamino l cclohxy 3 R,S hydroxy 6 methyl 4 heptyne to a 780C solution of n butyl lithium 51.2 ml of a 0.91 M solution in hexane was added 3 methylbutyne 3.52 g, 51.8 mmol over the course of 30 seconds. nnhydrous THF 10 ml was added, and the cold bath was removed for 30 minutes. After cooling the reaction mixture back to 780C, Boc cyclohexylalaninal Prepared by Swern oxidation Mancuso, A.J. Huang, S. L. andSwern, D. J. Org Chem. 1978, 43, 2480 of 5.3 g, 20.7 mmol of Boc cyclohexylalaninol in dry tHF 5 ml was added over 5 minutes. After 1 hour the reaction was quenched by addition of NH4Cl 4.01 g, 75 mmol in water 30 ml . The resulting mixture was partitioned between ether 50 ml and water 30 ml . The organic phase was washed with water 15 ml , saturated NaHC03, and brine.Drying and evaporating provided an oil which was chromatographed on SiO2 ethyl acetate hexane, 15 85 to give 4.52 g 68 of the desired product as a 2 1 mixture of hydroxy diastereomers. Mass spectrum M H 323. Nnal. calcd. for C 19H33NO3 C, 70.5 H, 10,3 N, 4.3. Found C, 70.1 H, 10.6 N, 4.3. Example 34 2 S t Butvloxycarbonvlamino 1 cvclohexyl 3 R,S hydroxy 6 methyl 3 Z heptene The resultant product of Example 4 0.510 g, 1.70 mmol and quinoline 0.425 ml in ethyl acetate 20 ml were hydrogenated over 10 Pd BaSO4 31.8 mg for 5 hours. The mixture was filtered, the catalyst was washed with ethyl acetate, and the combined organic phase was washed sequentially with 1 M HCl 10 ml, OOC , water 10 ml , saturated NaHC03, and brine 10 ml .Drying Na2 SO4 and evaporating in vacuo provided 0.510 g 99 of the desired product. Mass spectrum M H 325. Final. calcd. for C 19H35N03 C, 70.1 H, 10.8 N, 4.3. Found C, 70.3 H, 11.2 N, 4.3. Example 35 2 S t Butyloxycarbonylamino 1 cyclohexyl 6 methyl 3,4,5 trihydroxyheptane Following the procedure of Example 32, but replacing the resultant product of Example 28 with the resultant compound of Example 34 and increasing the temperature to reflux and the time to 10 days, gave the desired product as a mixture of 4 diastereomers.Chromatography on silica gel provided 3 oF them pure eluting in the order shown. Isomer A mp 178 1790C Mass spectrum Mf 359. Anal. calcd. for C19H37N 5 C, 63.5 H, 10.4 N, 3.9. Found C, 63.4 H, 10.1 N, 3.8. IsomerB mp 148 1490C Mass spectrum M a 359 Found C, 63.3 10.2 N, 3.8. Isomer C mp 151 1520C Mass spectrum M 359 Found 63.5 10.1 N, 3.8. Example 36 Ethox jcarbonyl Phe Leu flmide of 2 S Qmino 1 cclohexyl 6 methyl 3,4, 5 tri hydroxyheptane Isomers A, B, and C Following the procedure of Example 20, but replacing Boc Phe Rla with ethoxycarbonyl Phe Leu and systematically replacing the resultant compound ofExample 8 with isomers , B, and C from Example 35, gave the desired products. Isomer R Mass spectrum M H 592. Anal, calcd. for C32H53N307 C, 65.0 H, 9.0 N, 7.1. Found C, 65.0 H, 8.9 N, 6.9. Isomer B Mass spectrum M H 592. Isomer C Mass spectrum M H 592. Found C, 65.2 H, 9.1 N, 7.0. Example 37 4S 2,8 Dimethyl 4 toluenesulfonyl aminoj 5 nonanone To a stirred 780C solution of Ts Leu 15 g, 53 mmol in dry THF 240 ml was added n butyl lithium 57.8 ml of a 0.91 M solution in hexane followed 15 minutes later by isopentyl magnesium bromide 185 ml of a 0.8 M solution in THF . The mixture was heated at reflux for 3 days, then cooled and poured into 0 C 1 MHCl 500 ml . The layers were separated and the aqueous phase was extracted with ether 3 x 150 ml . The combined organic layers were washed with saturated NaHC03 2 x 150 ml and brine 150 ml . Drying and evaporating provided a residue which was chromatographed on silica gel to give 7.43 g 41 of the desired product. Mass spectrum M H 340. Nnal. calcd. for C18H29NO3S C, 63.7 H, 8.6, N, 4.1. Found C, 64.0 H, 8.6 N, 4.1. Example 38 4S 2,8 Dimethyl 5 hydroxy 4 E toluenesulfonVl amino 5 vinylnonane To a stirred 0 C solution of the resultant compound of Example 37 79 mg, 0.23 mmol in dry THF 8 ml was added vinyl magnesium bromide 1.5 ml of a 1.0 M solution in THF dropwise. The mixture was warmed room temperature, 10 hours , quenched 8 ml H20 2 ml brine , acidified with 0.1 M H3PO4 pH 7 , and extracted with ether 3 x 4 ml . The combined ether phase was washed 4 ml brine , dried Na2SO4 , fi.ltered, and evaporated to give 81 mg 95 of the desired product as a 4 1 mixture of diastereomers. Example 39 Boc Phe Ala flmide of 4S Amino 2,8 dimethvl 5 hvdrox 5 uinsinonane Isomer n To a solution of the resultant compound ofExample 38 400 mg, 1.09 mmol in liquid ammonia 80 ml was added sodium 150 mg, 6.5 mmol . Rafter 6 hours the ammonia was allowed to slowly evaporate under a stream of nitrogen. Benzene 50 ml and 1 1, ethanol water 20 ml were added with stirring. The layers were separated, and the aqueous phase was extracted with ether. The combined organic phase was dried Na2SO4 , filtered, and evaporated to give 85 mg 37 of the desired product. Following the procedure of Example 20, but replacing the amine hydrochloride and N methylmorpholine with the above resultant product, gave the desired major diastereomer in 35 yield after chromatography. FNB mass spectrum M K 570. Anal. calcd. for C30H49N305 C, 67.8 H, 9.3 N, 7.9. Found C, 67.7 H, 9.6 N, 7.3. Example 40 Boc Phe Ala Rmide of 4S Amino 2,8 dimethyl 5 hydroxy 5 uinylnonane, Isomer B Scale up of the procedure of Example 38 led to the isolation of the minor diastereomer pure after chromatography. Treatment as in Example 39 provided the desired isomer of the resultant product of Example 39. Example 41 Boc Phe flla aside of 4 S flmino 3 isopentyl 6 methyl 1,2,3 trthvdroxvheptane, Isomer A Following the procedure of Example 32, but replacing the resultant compound of Example 28 with the resultant compound of Example 39 gave the desired product. Example 42 Boc Phe flla Amid of 4cS Rmino 3 isopentyl 6 methyl 1,2,3 trihydroxyheptane, Isomer B Following the procedure of Example 32, but replacing the resultant compound of Example 28 with the resultant compound of Example 40, gave the desired diastereomer of the resultant product of Example 41. Example 43 Ethoxycarbonvl Phe Leu Nmide of 2 S Rmino 1 cyclohexyl 6 methyl 3 4,5 trihydroxyheptane, Isomers D, E, F, and G Following the Na NH3 reduction procedure ofExample 39, but replacing the resultant compound ofExample 38 with the resultant product of Example 33 gave the corresponding 3 E heptene isomer of the resultant compound of Example 34 which was oxidized according to the procedure of Example 35. In this way the four iomeric 2 S t butyloxycarbonyl amino 1 cyclohexyl6 methyl 3,4,5 trihydroxyheptanes were isolated, separated, and converted to the desired products according to the procedure of Example 36. Example 44 2 S t Butyloxycarbonylamino 1 cyclohexylbut 3 ene n 0 C solution of potassium hexamethyldisilazide 22.9 ol in 115 ml of 5 1, tetrahydrofuran THF dimethyl sulfoxide DMSO was added dropwise to triphenylmethylphosphonium iodide 24.81 mmol . Rafter stirring at 00C for I hour, the solution was cooled to 780C and a solution of Boc cyclohexylalaninal t4.90 g, 19.08 mmol, prepared by Swern oxidation Mancuso, R.J. Huang,, S. L. and Swern, D., J.Org Chem. 1978, 43, 2480 of 80c cyclohexylalaninol3 in dry THF 95 ml was added. rafter stirring at 780C for 1 hour, the mixture was allowed to warm to room temperature. The reaction mixture was quenched with aqueous ammonium chloride and extracted with ether 2x300 ml . The combined organic phase was washed with 10 HCl 200 ml , saturated NaHS03 2x200 ml , H20 2x200 ml , saturated NaHC03 2x200 ml , and brine 200 ml , dried MgSO4 , filtered, and evaporated. The residue was purified by chromatography 40 vm SiO2 ether hexane, 15 85 to give the desired compound in 60 yield. Mass spectrum M H 254. Example 45 Boc Phe flla Amide of 2S Amino l cyclohexylbut 3 ene The resultant compound of Example 44 310 mg, 1.22 mmol was dissolved in 1 M anhydrous HCl in anhydrous methanol 35 ml . After 22 hours, the solvent was evaporated to give 230 mg 99 of the corresponding amine hydrochloride which was used without further purification. To a stirred 130C solution of Boc Phe Qla 408 mg, 1.21 mmol in dry THF 8 ml containing N methylmorpholine 122 mg, 1.21 mmol was added isobutyl chloroformate 165 mg, 1.21 mmol dropwise.After 3 minutes, a 130C solution oF the above amine hydrochloride 230 mg, 1.21 mmol in 1 1, THF DMF 4 ml containing N methylmorpholine 122 mg was added dropwise. The mixture was warmed to room temperature for 2 hours. Evaporation provided a residue which was partitioned between ethyl acetate 30 ml and 0.1 MH3P04 10 ml . The organic phase was washed with brine 10 ml , saturated NaHC03 10 ml , and brine 10 ml . Drying, filtering, evaporating, and chromatographing 55 g Si02 95 5, CH2C 12 CH3OH gave the desired compound 462 rung, 81 . Example 46 Boc Phe Ala side of 3 S Rmino 4 cyclohexyl 1,2 R,S dihydroxvbutane Yo a stirred solution of the resultant compound of Example 45 100 mg, 0.212 mmol in THF 5 ml were added OSO4 solution 0.065 ml of a 2.5 W U solution in t butanol and N methylmorpholine N oxide 57 mg, 0.424 mmol sequentially. After 4.5 hours, brine 10 ml was added, and the mixture was extracted with ether 4x8 ml . The combined organic phase was washed with 10 Na2S03 3 x 6 ml , 0.1 M H3P04 5 ml , and brine 5 ml . Drying, filtering, and evaporating provided the desired product 97 mg, 91 . Mass spectrum M . 505. Example 47 3 S t Butyloxycarbonylamino 4 cyclohexyl 1,2 R,S dihydroxybutane To a stirred solution of 2 S t butyloxycarbonylamino 1 cyclohexylbut 3 ene 1.00 g, 3.95 mmol in THF 20 ml were added OsO4 solution 1.2 ml of a 2.5 W V solution in t butanol and N methylmorpholine N oxide 1.07 g, 7.90 mmol . Nfter 24 hours, the mixture was partitioned between ether 50 ml and brine 25 ml . The layers were separated, and the organic phase was extracted with ether 3 x 25 ml . The combined organic phase was washed with 10 Na2 SO3 4x10 ml , 1.0 M H3 P04 2x8 ml , and brine 15 ml . Drying and evaporating provided the desired product as an oil 1.14 g, 100 . H NMR shows a 1 1 mixture of diastereomers NH 4.43 and 4.56 ppm . Example 48 Boc Phe His Asides of 3 S Amino 4 cyclohexyl 2 R,S hydroxy 1 t butyldimethylsilyloxybutane The resultant compound of Example 47 1.10 g, 3.82 mmol was treated with anhydrous 1M HCl CH30H 80 ml for 16 hours at which time evaporation and drying provided the corresponding amine hydrochloride 0.85 g, 100 . To a suspension of the above hydrochloride salt 344 mg, 1.54 mmol and imidazole 105 mg in dichloromethane 15 ml were added triethylamine 156 mg and t butyldimethylsilyl chloride 232 mg . The solvent was evaporated after 31 hours, and the residue was then re dissolued in anhydrous dimethylformamide DMF, 15 ml . Boc Phe His 619 mg and 1 hydroxybenzotriazole HOBT, 312 mg were then added. Rafter cooling the stirred solution to 230C, 1,3 dicyclohexyl carbodiimide DCC, 318 mg was added.The mixture was warmed to room temperature 3 hours later. After 13 hours the solvent was evaporated in vacuo, and the residue was dissolved in ethyl acetate 40 ml , filtered, washed with saturated NalQC03 2x10 ml and brine 10 ml , and dried Na2S04 .Filtration and euaporation provided a residue which was chromatographed on silica gel eluting with dichloromethane methanol mixtures to give 441 mg 42 of the desired product. Mass spectrum M H 686. Nnal. calcd. for C36H59N506Si C, 63.0 H, 8 7 N, 10.2. Found C, 62.8 H, 9.0 N, 9.9. Example 49 Boc Phe His Nmides of 3 S Rrnino 4 cvclohexYl 1,2 R dihydroxybutan To a stirred solution of the resultant product of Example 48 200 ing, 0.291 mmol in anhydrous THF 5 ml at 0 C was added tetrabutylammonium fluoride 0.58 ml of a 1 M solution in THF . The solution was warmed to room temperature for 4 hours and then evaporated.The residue was dissolved in chloroform and washed with water 3X and brine 1X . Drying and evaporating provided a gum which was treated with hot ethyl acetate 8 ml . Cooling and filtration provided 25 mg of the desired material. Mass spectrum M H 572. nnal. Calcd for C30H45N506 1 2H20 C, 62.1 H, 8.0 N, 12.1. Found C, 62.4, H, 8.2 N, 12.0. Example 50 4S 2,8 Dimethyl 4 toluenesulfonyl amino 5 nonanone To a stirred 780C solution of Ts Leu 15 g, 53 mmol in dry THF 240 ml was added butyl lithium 57.8 ml of a 0.91 M solution in hexane followed 15 minutes later by isopentyl magnesium brornide 185 ml of a 0.8 M solution in THF . The mixture was heated at reflux for 3 days, then cooled and poured into 0 C 1 M HCl 500 ml . The layers were separated and the aqueous phase was extracted with ether 3x150 ml . The combined organic layers were washed with saturated NaHC03 2x150 ml and brine 150 ml . Drying and evaporating provided a residue which was chromatographed on silica gel to give 7.43 g 41 of the desired product. Mass spectrum M H 340. Qnal. calcd. for C18H29NO3S C, 63.7 H, 8.6 N, 4.1. Found C, 64.0 H, 8.6 N, 4.1. Example 51 4S 2,8 Dimthyl 5 ydroxy 4 C toluenes mino3 5 uinyino ane To a stirred OOC solution of the resultant compound of Example 50 79 mg, 0.23 mmol in dry THF 8 ml was added vinyl magnesium bromide 1.5 ml of a 1.0 M solution in THF dropwise. The mixture was warmed room temperature, 10 hours , quenched 8 ml H20 2 ml brine , acidified with 0.1 M H3 P04 pH 7 , and extracted with ether 3 x 4 ml . The combined ether phase was washed 4 ml brine , dried Na2SO4 , filtered, and evaporated to give 81 mg 95 of the desired product as a 4 1 mixture of diastereomers. Example 52 Boc Phe Qla Rmide of 4S nmino 2,8 dimethyl 5 hydroxy 5 uinylnonane To a solution of the resultant compound ofExample 51 400 mg, 1.09 mmol in liquid ammonia 80 ml was added sodium 150 mg, 6.5 mmol . after 6 hours the ammonia was allowed to slowly evaporate under a stream of nitrogen. Benzene 50 ml and 1 1, ethanol water 20 ml were added with stirring. The layers were separated, and the aqueous phase was extracted with ether. The combined organic phase was dried Na2S04 , filtered, and evaporated to give 85 mg 37 of the desired product. Following the procedure of Example 45, but replacing the amine hydrochloride and N methylmorpholine with the above resultant product, gave the desired major diastereomer in 35 yield after chromatography. FQB mass spectrum M K 570. final. calcd. for C30H49N305 C, 67.8 H, 9.3 N, 7.9. Found C, 67.7 H, 9.6 N, 7.3. Example 53 Boc Phe Ala Nmide of 3S flmino 2 hvdroxy 2 isopentyl 5 methylhexanal Following the procedure of Example 46 with the resultant compound oF Example 52 except replacingN methylmorpholine N oxide with aqueous Nail, gave the desired compound. Example 54 Boc Phe la flmide of 3 Amino 1,2 dihydroxy 2 isopentyl 5 methylhexane Treatment of the resultant compound of Example 53 with one equivalent of NaBH4 in methanol provided the desired compound after aqueous work up. Example 55 Boc Phe flla flmide of 3 Amino 1,2 dihydroxy 2 isopentyl 5 methylhexane Scale up of the procedure of Example 51 led to the isolation of the minor diastereomer pure after chromatography. Treatment as in Examples 52, 53 and 54 provided the desired isomer of the resultant product ofExample 54. Example 56 2 S t Butyloxycarbonylamno l cyclohexy 6 methylhept 3 ene To a stirred 780C solution ofBoc cyclohexylalanine methyl ester 40 g, 140 mmol in anhydrous toluene 250 ml was added diisobutylaluminum hydride 130 M , 1.5 M solution in toluene, 121.4 ml at a rate to keep the internal temperature below 6O0C. After stirring for an additional 20 minutes at 780C, the aldehyde solution is used immediately as described below. To a potassium hydride 35 dispersion in oil, 32.09 g suspension in a 0 C mixture of anhydrous THF DMSO 1000 ml 200 ml under dry N2 was added 1,1,1,3,3,3 hexamethyldisilazane 209 M , 49.07 g dropwise. rafter stirring at 0 C for 1 hour, the resulting solution was added via cannula to a 0 C flask containing isopentyltriphenylphosphonium bromide 209M , 125.66 g . The mixture was stirred uigorously for 1 hour at which time it was cooled to 780C. The 780C aldehyde solution prepared above was then added via cannula. After stirring at 780C for 15 minutes, the mixture was allowed to slowly warm to room temperature and then heated to 400C for 12 hours.The mixture was then cooled to room temperature and quenched with methanol 7.65 ml followed by aqueous Rochelle salts 100 ml saturated solution and 500 ml H20 . The mixture was then extracted with ethyl acetate 2x . The combined extracts were washed with water and brine.Drying MgSO4 and evaporating provided crude alkene which was chromatographed on silica gel ether hexane to give 16.5 g 38 of the desired compound as an 85 15 mixture of cis trans isomers. Mp 53 550C. Mass spectrum M 309. Final. calcd. for C1gH35NO2 C, C, 73.7 H, 11.4 N, 4.5. Found C, 73.8 H, 11.4 N, 4.5. Example 57 2 S t Butvioxycarbonylamino 1 cvclohexyl 3,4 dihydroxv 6 methylheptane The 3 R 4 S , 3 S 4 S , 3 R 4 R , and 3 S 4 R Diastereomers To a solution of the r esultant compound ofExample 56 8.50, 27.5 mmol in dry THF 150 ml were added OsO4 2.8 ml of a 2.5 solution in t butanol andN methylmorpholine N oxide 9.28 g, 68.7 mmol . After 4 days the mixture was partitioned between ether 200 ml and brine 100 ml . The aqueous layer was back extracted with ether 2x100 ml , and the combined organic phase was washed with 10 Na2S03, 0.1 M H3PO4, and brine. Drying MgSO4 and evaporating provided a residue 10.81 g which was chromatographed on silica gel to elute a 60 yield of the 4 diols in the following order. 3 R ,4 S Mass spectrum M H 344. Rnal. calcd. for C 19H37NO4 C, 66.4 H, 10.9 N, 4.1. Found C, 66.4 H, 10.8 N, 3.9. 3 S ,4 S Mass spectrum M H 344. Anal.calcd. for C 19H37NO4 C, 66.4 H, 10.9 N, 5.1.Found C, 66.4 H, 11.1 N, 4.0. 3 R ,4 R Mass spectrum M H 344. 3 S ,4 R Mass spectrum M H 344. Anal. calcd. for C1gH37NO4 C, 66.4 H, 10.9 N, 4.1.Found C, 66.0 H, 10.7 N, 4.0. Example 58 Boc Phe His Amide of 2 S nmino 1 cyclohexyl 3 R1 4 S dihydroxy 6 methylheptane The 3 R ,4 S diastereomer of Example 57 was deprotected with HCl methanol, and the resulting product was coupled to Boc Phe His using 1 hydroxybenzotriazole and 1,3 dicyclohexylcarbodiimide according to the procedure of Example 48. The desired product was obtained in 40 60 yield. Mass spectrum M H 628. Final. calcd. for C34H53N506 H20 C, 63.2 H, 8.6 N, 10.8. Found C, 63.2 H, 8.4 N, 10.5. Example 59 Boc Phe His flmide of 2 S Rmino 1 cyclohexyl 3 S ,4 S dihydroxy 6 methylheptane Following the procedure of Example 58, but replacing the 3 R ,4 S diastereomer with the 3 S ,4 S diastereomer gave the desired compound. Mass spectrum M H 628. final. calcd. for C34H53N506 1 2H20 C, 64.1 H, 8.6 N, 11.0. Found C, 64.0 H. 8.6 N, 10.6. Example 60 Boc Phe His Qmide of 2 S nmino 1 cyclohexyl 3 R ,4 R dihydroxy 6 methylheptane Following the procedure of Example 58, but replacing the 3 R ,4 S diastereomer with the 3 R ,4 R diastereomer gave the desired compound. Mass spectrum M H 628. Anal. calcd. for C34H53N 506.H20 C, 63.2 H, 8.6 N, 10.8. Found C, 63.1 H, 8.5 N, 10.7. Example 61 Boc Phe His nmide of 2 S nmino 1 cyclohexyl 3 S ,4 R dihydroxy 6 methylhptane Following the procedure of Example 58, but replacing the 3 R ,4 S diastereorner with the 3 S ,4 R diastereomer gave the desired compound. Mass spectrum M H 628. Anal. calcd. for C34H53N 6 3 4H20 C, 63.7 H, 8.6 N, 10.9. Found C, 63.8 H, 8.8 N, 10.7. Example 62 n. 4 S t Butyloxycarbonylamino 5 cyclohexyl 3 R,S hydroxy 1 pentene To a stirred 780C solution ofBoc cyclohexylalanine methyl ester 10.2 g, 35.8 mmol in dry toluene 60 ml was added diisobutylaluminum hydride 34 ml of a 1.5 M solution in toluene . After 30 minutes, vinyl magnesium bromide 108 ml of 1 M solution in THF was added. After stirring for 15 hours at OOC, the mixture was carefully quenched with methanol, treated with Rochelle salts 22 ml of saturated aqueous solution in 140 ml H20 , and filtered. After extracting the solids times with ethyl acetate, the extracts and filtrate were combined and the organic phase was washed with brine, dried, filtered, and evaporated to an oil 10.2 g .Chromatography on silica gel eluting with hexane ethyl acetate mixtures provided 6.1 g 60 of the desired product. nnal. calcd. for C 16H29NO3.1 4H20 C, 66.8 H, 10.3 N, 4.9. Found C, 66.9 H, 10.2 N, 4.7. B. 4 S Cyclohexylmethyl 5 R,S uinyl 2 oxazolidinone The resultant product of Example 62R 2.80 g, 9.88 mmol in dry dimethylformamide DMF 50 ml was added to a stirred suspension of NaH 593 mg of a 60 dispersion in oil, 14.8 mmol, hexane washed in dry DMF 50 ml . Rfter 3 hours, the mixture was quenched 750 ml water 100 ml brine and extracted with ether 5x100 ml . The combined organic phase was washed with brine 3x50 ml , dried MgS04 , filtered, and evaporated to an oil 2.23 g. The NMR spectrum of the crude product revealed an 82 18 mixture of 5 S 5 R diastereomers.Silica gel chromatography gave 80 recouery of pure diastereomers. 5 S Final. calcd. for C 12H 19NO2 C, 68.9 H, 9.1 N, 6.7. Found 68.4 H, 9.2 N, 6.5. Mass spectrum M 1 210. 5 R Mass spectrum M 1 , 210. C. 5 R Carboxy 4 S cyclohexylmethyl 2 oxazolidinone To a solution of the compound from Example 62B 1 g, 4.78 mmol dissolved in 16 ml of benzene and 3 ml of acetic acid was added a solution of 3.01 g of potassium permanganate in 16 ml of water. The resultant two phase mixture was uigorously stirred and treated by portionwise addition with 153 mg of tetrabutylammonium bromide. Rfter stirring for 2 hours at room temperature, the mixture was quenched with aqueous sodium bisulfite, acidified to pH 3, and extracted with ethyl acetate. Drying and evaporating gave the desired product as an oil in 59 yield. D. 4yclohexylmethyl 5 R f3 3 hydroypentyl l 2 oxazolidinon To a solution of the compound from Example 62C dissolved in tetrahydrofuran and cooled to 780C was added 3.5 equivalents of ethyl magnesium bromide. Rafter stirring at 780C for 1. 5 hours and at room temperature for 1 hour, the reaction mixture was quenched with water and extracted with ether. The dried ethereal extract was evaporated to afford a 73 yield of product. E. 2 S nmino 1 cyclohexyl 3 R 3,4 dihydroxy 4 ethylhexane R solution of the compound from Example 62D 1.69 mmol and barium hydroxide octahydrate 3.38 mmol in dioxane 60 ml and water 40 ml was heated at reflux under N2 for 21 hours. The solid barium carbonate was filtered and the filtrate was partially evaporated. The residue was diluted with water and the resulting solution was extracted with ether. The organic extract was washed with brine solution, dried over MgSO4, and evaporated to give the desired product in 76 yield. F. Boc Phe His Nmide of 2 S nmino 1 cyclohexyl 3 R 3,4 dihydroxy 4 ethylhexane The resultant product of Example 62E was coupled to Boc Phe His using 1 hydroxybenzotriazole and 1,3 dicyclohexylcarbodiimide according to the procedure of Example 48 to give the desired product in 55 yield. Example 63 Boc His Amide of 2 S Rmino l cyclohexyl 3 R ,4 S dihydroxy 6 methylheptane The procedure of Example 58 was followed exceptBoc Phe His was replaced with Boc His. Mass spectrum M 480. Final. calcd. for C25H44N4O5.3 4H2O C, 60.8 H, 9.1 N, 11.3. Found C, 60.9 H, 9.2 N, 11.0. Example 64 TBA CHA His Nmide of 2 S Qmino l cyclohexyl 3 R 4 S dihydroxy 6 methylheptane The resultant compound of Example 63 was deprotected with HCl methanol, and the resulting product was coupled to t butylacetyl cyclohexylalanine TBA CHR using the DCC HOBT method of Example 48. Example 65 Ethoxvcarbonvl OCH3XTYr His flmide of 2 S Amino 1 cyclohexyl 3 R ,4 S dihydroxy 6 methylheptane Using the procedure of Example 64, but replacing TBR CHS with ethoxycarbonyl OCH3 Tyr His gave the desired compound. Mass spectrum M H , 630. Example 66 Acetyl N methylPhe His Nmide of 2 S Rmino 1 cvclohexyl 3 R ,4 S dihydroxy 6 methylheptane Using the procedure of Example 64, but replacing TB CHA with acetyl N methylPhe gave the desired compound. Mass spectrum M 583. Example 67 Nc Pl His Rmide of 2 S nmino 1 cvclohexvl R ,4 S dihydroxy 6 methylheptane Using the procedure of Example 64, but replacing TBn CHn with O acetyl L 3 phenyllactic acid Ac Pl OH gave the desired compound. Example 68 Pl His side of 2 S Amino 1 cyclohexyl 3 R ,4 S dihydroxy 6 methylheptane The resultant compound of Example 67 37.4 mg, 0.065 mmol in MeOH at O C was treated with K2C03 9.1 mg, 0.065 mmol for 30 minutes at OOC. Evaporation provided a residue which was partitioned between ethyl acetate and water. The organic phase was washed brine , dried MgSO4 , and evaporated to give the desired compound 32 mg, 93 . Mass spectrum M H 529. Final. calcd. for C31H46N4O6.1 2H2O C, 64.8 H, 8.4 N, 10.4. Found C, 64.6 H, 8.3 N, 10.1. Example 69 Boc alpha Nal His Amide of 2 S Amino 1 cyclohexyl 3 R ,4 S dihydroxy 6 methyl heptane Using the procedure of Example 64, but replacing TBA CHA with Boc alpha naphthylalanine Boc alpha Nal provided the desired compound. Mass spectrum M H 678. Example 70 Dba His Nmide of 2 S Amino 1 cyclohexyl 3 R ,4 S dihydroxy 6 methylheptane Using the procedure of Example 64, but replacing TBR CHQ with 2,2 dibenzylacetic acid Dba OH gave the desired compound. Example 71 Pp His Nmide of 2 S Amino 1 cyclohexyl 3 R ,4 S dihydroxy 6 methylheptane Using the procedure of Example 64, but replacing TBR CHS with 3 phenyl propionic acid Pp OH gave the desired compound. Mass spectrum M H 513. nnal. calcd for C29H44N40 1 2 H20 C, 66.8 H, 8.7., N, 10.7. Found C, 66.6 H, 8.8 N, 10.5. Example 72 Ethoxycarbonyl Phe His flmide of 2 S flmino 1 cyclohexyl 3 R ,4 S dihydroxy 6 ethylheptane Using the procedure of Example 64, but replacing TBA C SA with ethoxycarbonyl Phe gave the desired product. Mass spectrum M H 600. final. calcd. for C32H49N506 1 2H20 C, 63.1 H, 8.3 N, 11.5. Found C, 62.8 H, 8.3 N, 11.4 Example 73 Ac Phe His Amide of 2 S Rmino 1 cvclohexyl 3 R ,4 S dihydroxy 6 methylheptane Using the procedure of Example 64, but replacing TBR CHR with acetyl Phe gave the desired product. Mass spectrum M H 570. Anal. calcd. for C31H47N505 1 2H20 C, 64.3 H, 8.2 N, 12.1. Found C, 64.2 H, 8.3 N, 12.0. Example 74 Boc eu His nmide of 2 S mino 1 cyclohexyl 3 R ,4 S dihydroxy 6 methylheptane Using the procedure of Example 64, but replacing TBR CHN with Boc Leu gave the desired product. Mass spectrum M H 594. Anal. calcd. for C31H 55N5O6 1 2H20 C, 61.8 H, 9.4 N, 11.6. Found C, 61.8 H, 9.3 N, 11.6. Example 75 Tbac Phe His flmide of 2 S Amino 1 cyclohexyl 3 R .4 S dihydroxy 6 methylheptane Using the procedure of Example 64, but replacing TBA CHR with t butyl aminocarbonyl Phe Tbac Phe gave the desired product. Exact mass calcd for C34H55N6O5 627.4233. Found 627.4226. Example 76 Boc Phe Ala Amide of 2 S mino 1 cyclohexyl mj 4 S dihvdroxv 6 methylheptane Using the procedure of 45, but replacing the resultant compound of Example 44 with the 3 R ,4 S diastereomer of Example 57 gave the desired compound. Mass spectrum M H 560. nnal. calcd. for C31H51N3O6 C, 66.3 H, 9.1 N, 7.5. Found C, 66.0 H, 9.2 N, 7.3. Example 77 Boc Phe Phe flmide of 2 S mino 1 cyclohexyl 3 R ,4 S dihydroxy 6 methylheptane Using the procedure of Example 76, but replacing Boc Phe Qla with Boc Phe Phe, gave the desired product. Mass spectrum M H , 638. Anal. calcd. for C37H55N306 C, 69.7 H, 8.7 N, 6.6. Found C, 69.4 H, 8.8 N, 6.5 Example 78 Boc Phe PNla Amide of 2 S mino 1 cvclohexVl 3 R ,4 S dihydroxy 6 methylheptane Using the procedure of Example 76, but replacing Boc Phe Ala with Boc Phe 3 pyrazoyl alanine Boc Phe PAla , gave the desired compound. Mass spectrum M H 628. Nnal. calcd. for C34H53N5 6 1 2H20 C, 64.1 H, 8.5 N, 11.0. Found C, 64.1 H, 8.3 N, 11.2. Example 79 Ethoxvcarbonyl Phe Leu flmide of 2 S Xmino l cyclohexyl 3 R ,4 S dthvdroxy 6 methylheptane Using the procedure of Example 76, but replacing Boc Phe Rla with Boc Phe Leu, gave the desired compound. Mass spectrum M H 576. Final. calcd. for C32H53N306 C, 66.7 H, 9.3 N, 7.3. Found C, 66.4 H, 9.5 N, 7.2. Example 80 Boc Phe SCH3 Cys Nmide of S Qmino l cyclohexvl 3R ,4 S dihydroxy 6 methylheptane Using the procedure of Example 76, but replacing Boc Phe Ala with Boc Phe SCH3 Cys, gave the desired compound. Mass spectrum M H 608. Anal. calcd. for C32H53N306S C, 62.8 H, 8.8 N, 6.9. Found C, 62.8 H, 8.9 N, 6.6. Example 81 Ts N Me,NIMBn His flmide of 2 S Amino 1 cyclohexyl 3 R ,4 S dihydroxy 6 methylheptane Using the procedure of Example 63, but replacing Boc His with Ts N Me,NIMBn His DuUigneau, U. Bhrns, O.K. J. Biol. Chem. 1937, 117, 27 , gave the desired compound. Mass spectrum M H 639. Example 82 Ethoxycarbonyl Phe MeHis Nmide of 2 S Rmino l cvclohexyl 3 R ,4 S dihydroxy 6 methylheptane To a stirred 780C solution of the resultant compound of Example 81 100 mg, 0.156 mmol in liquidNH3 5 ml and dry tetrahydrofuran 5 ml was added sodium until a dark green brown color persisted for 5 minutes. Solid, powdered NH4Cl was then added, and the mixture was evaporated. The residue was suspended in water and extracted several times with chloroform.The combined extracts were dried Na2S04 , filtered, and evaporated to give the MeHis amide of 2 S amino 1 cyclohexyl 3 R ,4 S dihydroxy 6 methylheptane. The material was coupled to ethoxycarbonyl Phe using to DCC HOBT method described inExample 48 to give the desired product. Mass spectrum M H 614. Example 83 2 S t Butyloxycarbonylamino l cyclohexy 7 methyloct 3 ene Using the procedure of Example 56, but replacing isopentyltriphenylphosphonium bromide with isohexyltriphenylphosphonium bromide, gave the desired product. Example 84 2 5 t Butyloxycarbonylamino 1 cyclohexyl 3 R ,4 S dihydroxy 7 methyloctane Using the procedure of Example 57, but replacing the resultant compound of Example 56 with the resultant compound of Example 83, gave the desired compound. Example 85 Boc His Nmide of 2 S Aino l cyclohexyl 3 R ,4 S dihydroxy 7 methyloctane Using the procedure of Example 63, but replacing the 3 R ,4 S diastereomer of Example 57 with the resultant compound of Example 84, gave the desired product. Mass spectrum M H 495. Anal. calcd. for C26H46N405. 1 2H20 C, 62.0 H, 9.4 N, 11.1. Found C, 62.2 H, 9.4 N, 10.9. Example 86 TBn Phe His Gmide of 2 S Rmino l cvclohexyl 3 R ,4 S dihvdroxy 7 methyloctane Using the procedure of Example 58, but replacing the resultant compound of Example 57,and Boc Phe His with the resultant compound of Example 85 and t butylacetyl TBX Phe gave the desired compound.Mass spectrum M H 640. final. calcd. for C36H57N505. 3 4H20 C, 66.2 H, 9.0 N, 10.7. Found C, 66.1 H, 9.1 N, 10.6. Example 87 2 S t Butyloxycarbonvlamino 1 cyclohexyl 5 methylhex 3 ene Using the procedure of Example 56, but replacing isopentyltriphenylphosphonium bromide with isobutyltriphenylphosphonium bromide, gave the desired product. Mass spectrum M 295. Anal. calcd. for C 18H33NO2 1 4H20 C, 72.0 H, 11.3 N, 4.7. Found 71.7 H, 11.1 N, 4.5. Example 88 2 S t Butyloxvcarbonlamino 1 cvclohexvl 3 R ,4 S dihydroxw 5 methvlhexane Using the procedure of Example 57, but replacing the resultant compound of Example 56 with the resultant compound of Example 87, gave the desired compound. Example 89 Boc Phe His Amide of 2 S nmino l cvclohexvl 3 R ,4 S dihvdroxv 5 methvlhexane Using the procedure of Example 58, but replacing the resultant product of Example 57 with the resultant product of Example 88, gave the desired product. Mass spectrum M H 614. Example 90 Ethoxycarbonyl Phe Leu nmide of 2 S Rmino 1 cyclohexyl 3 R ,4 S dihydroxyhexane Following the procedures used to make the resultant compound of Example 79, but replacing isopentyltriphenylphosphonium bromide with propyltriphenylphosphonium bromide, gave the desired product.Mass spectrum M 547. Nnal. calcd. for 49 3 6 2 1 4H20 C, 65.2 H, 9.0 N, 7.6. Found C, 65.0 H, 8.9 N, 7.3 Example 91 Ethoxycarbonyl Phe Leu flmide of 2 S mino 1 cyclohexyl 3 R ,4 S dihvdroxy 5 phenylpentane Following the procedures used to make the resultant compound of Example 79, but replacing isopentyltriphenylphosphonium bromide with phenethyltriphenylphosphoniurn bromide, gave the desired product. Example 92 Boc Phe His nmide of 2 S nmino 1 cyclohexvl R ,4 S dihydroxypentane Following the procedures used to make the resultant compound of Example 58, but replacing isopentyltriphenylphosphonium bromide with ethyltriphenylphosphonium bromide, gave the desired product. Mass spectrum M H . 600. Anal. calcd. for C32H49N506 1 4H20 C, 63.6 H, 8.3 N, 11.6. Found C, 63.6 H, 8.3 N, 11.5. Example 93 2 S t Butyloxycarbonylamino 1 cyclohexyl 3 S hydroxvhex 5 ene To a stirred 780C solution ofBoc cyclohexylalanine methyl ester 35.0 g, 123 mmol in anhydrous toluene 200 ml was added diisobutylaluminum hydride 140 M , 1.5 M solution in toluene, 117 ml at a rate to keep the internal temperature below 600C. Rafter stirring for an additional 20 minutes at 780C, allyl magnesium chloride 184 ml of a 2.0 M solution inTHF was added. The mixture was allowed to stand at 0 C for 16 hours and was then quenched with methanol. The.mixture was diluted with ether and then washed sequentially with citric acid aq and brine. Drying MgS04 and evaporating provided an oil which was purified by silica gel chromatography to give the desired compound in 40 yield. Example 94 2 S t Butvloxycarbonylamino l cyclohexy 3 R ,4 S dihydroxyhex 5 ene An allylic oxidation using stoiciometric SeO2 and t butyl hydroperoxide Umbriet, M.A. and Sharpless, K.B. J. nm. Chem. Soc. 1977, 99, 5526 was performed on the resultant product of Example 93 to give the desired product after silica gel chromatography. Example 95 Ethoxycarbonyl Phe His flmide of 2 S Rmino 1 cyclohexyl 3 R ,4 S dihydroxy hex 5 ene Following the procedure of Example 58, but replacing the resultant product of Example 57 andBoc Phe His with the resultant product of Example 94 and ethoxycarbonyl Phe His, gave the desired product. Example 96 2 S Butyloxvcarbonvlamino l cyclohexyl 6 methylhept 3 ene To a stirred 780C solution ofBoc cyclohexylalanine methyl ester 40 g, 140 mmol in anhydrous toluene 250 ml was added diisobutylaluminum hydride 130 M , 1.5 M solution in toluene, 121.4 ml at a rate to keep the internal temperature below 600C. After stirring for an additional 20 minutes at 780C, the aldehyde solution is used immediately as described below. To a potassium hydride 35 dispersion in oil, 32.09 g suspension in a OOC mixture of anhydrous tetrahydrofuran dimethyl sulfoxide THF DMSO 1000 ml 200 ml under dry N2 was added 1,1,1,3,3,3 hexamethyldisilazane 209 M , 49.07 g dropwise. after stirring at OOC for 1 hour, the resulting solution was added via cannula to a OOC flask containing isopentyltriphenylphosphonium bromide 209M , 125.66 g . The mixture was stirred vigorously for 1 hour at which time it was cooled to 780C. The 780C aldehyde solution prepared above was then added va cannula. Rafter stirring at 780C for 15 minutes, the mixture was allowed to slowly warm to room temperature and then heated to 400C for 12 hours.The mixture was then cooled to room temperature and quenched with methanol 7.65 ml followed by aqueous Rochelle salts 100 ml saturated solution and 500 ml H20 . The mixture was then extracted with ethyl acetate 2x . The combined extracts were washed with water and brine.Drying MgSO4 and evaporating provided crude alkene which was chromatographed on silica gel ether hexane to give 16.5 38 of the desired compound as an 85 15 mixture of cis trans isomers. Mp 53 550C. Mass spectrum M 309. Final. calcd. for C19H35NO2 C, 73.7 H, 11.4 N, 4.5. Found C, 73.8 H, 11.4 N, 4.5. Example 97 2 S t Butyloxycarbonylamino 1 cyclohexyl 3,4 dihvdroxw 6 methylheptane The 3 R 4 S , 3 S 4 S , 3 R 4 R , and 3 S 4 R Diastereomers To a solution of the resultant compound ofExample 96 8.50, 27.5 mmol in dry THF 150 ml were added 0sO4 2.8 ml of a 2.5 solution in t butanol and N methylmorpholine N oxide 9.28 g, 68.7 mmol .After 4 days the mixture was partitioned between ether 200 ml and brine 100 ml . The aqueous layer was back extracted with ether 2 x 100 ml , and the combined organic phase was washed with 10X Na2S03, 0.1 M H3 P04, and brine. Drying MgS04 and evaporating provided a residue 10.81 g which was chronatographed on silica gel to elute a 60 yield of the 4 diols in the following order. 3 R ,4 S Mass spectrum MtH 344.Rnal. calcd. for C19H37NO4 C, 66.4 H, 10.9 N, 4.1.Found C, 66.4 H, 10.8 N, 3.9. 3 S ,4 S Mass spectrum M H 344. final. calcd. for C1gH37NO4 C, 66.4 H, 10.9 N, 4.1. Found C, 66.4 H, 11.1 N, 4.0. 3 R ,4 R Mass spectrum M H , 344. 3 S ,4 R Mass spectrum M H 344. Final. calcd. for C1gH37NO4 C, 66.4 H, 10.9 N, 4.1. Found C, 66.0 H, 10.7 N, 4.0. Example 98 Boc His flmide of 2 S flmino 1 cyclohexyl 3 R ,4 S dihvdroxy 6 methVlheptane The 3 R ,4 S diastereomer of Example 97 1.26 g, 3.67 mmol was treated with 2.3 M HCl CH30H 32 ml, anhydrous for 16 hours at which time evaporation and uacuum drying provided the corresponding amine hydrochloride 1.01 g, 98 . To a stirred 200C solution of the aboue salt 0.60 g, 2.1 mmol , Boc His 0.548 g , 1 hydroxybenzotriazole HOST, 0.43 g , andN methylmorpholine 0.239 g was added 1,3 dicyclohexylcarbodiimide DCC, 0.442 g . The mixture was warmed to room temperature over 3 hours and then stirred for an additional 18 hours. The mixture was diluted with ethyl acetate and washed with saturated aq. NaHC03 and brine. Drying and evaporating provided a solid which was recrystallized to give the desired compound 0.51 g, 50 , 2 crops . Mass spectrum M 480. Anal. calcd. for C25H44N405 .3 4H20 C, 60.8 H, 9.1, N, 11.3. Found C, 60.9 H, 9.2 N, 11.0. Example 99 2 Ethoxycarbonylamnoindan 2 carboxylic acrid EtOC RICR To a stirred refluxing mixture of 2 aminoindan 2 carboxylic acid 1.90 g, 10.7 mmol,Pinder, R.M. Butcher, B.H. Buxton, D.R. and Howells,O.J. J. Med. Chem. 1971, 14, 892 in ethyl acetate 200 ml was added ethyl chloroformate 1.16 q, 10.7 mmol . Rfter 15 hours, the mixture was cooled, filtered, evaporated, and uacuum dried to give l.i7 g 44 of a white solid. Example 100 EtOC ICR His Nmide of 2 S Amino l cyclohexyl 3 R ,4 S dihydroxy 6 methvlheptane The resultant compound of Example 98 50 mg, 0.104 mmol was deprotected with 2.2 M HCl CH30H 6 ml, anhydrous . Evaporation after 6 hours provided the corresponding amine dihydrochloride. To a stirred 120C solution of the resultant compound of Example 99 25.9 mg, 0.104 mmol, EtOC RIC OH and N methylmorpholine 10.5 mg in dryTHF was added isobutylchloroformate 14.4 mg . Rafter 3 minutes, the above salt and N methylmorpholine 21 mg in dry DMF was added. The mixture was warmed to room temperature for 3 hours, diluted with ethyl acetate and washed sequentially with brine, saturated. aq. NaHC03, and brine. Drying and evaporating provided a residue which was chromatographed on silica gel eluting with dichloromethane methanol mixtures to give 30 mg 48 of the desired compound. Mass spectrum M H 612. Example 101 N Carboxv 2 aminoindan 2 carboxylic flcid Anhydride rhe resultant compound of Example 99 500 mg, 2.00 mmol was dissolved in thionyl chloride 3 ml .Evaporation after 17 hours provided a solid which was recrystallized from ethyl acetate hexane to give 239 mg 59 of the desired product. Example 102 NIC His Nmide of 2 S Amino l cyclohexyl 3 R ,4 S dihydroxy 6 methylheptane To a stirred 0 C solution of the amine dihydrochloride prepared in Example 100 0.104 mmol and triethylamine 21.0 mg in dry DMF 5 ml was added a solution of the resultant compound of Example 101 21.1 mg, 0.104 mmol in DMF 0.5 ml . After 16 hours, the mixture was diluted with saturated. aq. NaHC03 10 ml and extracted with ethyl acetate several times. The combined organic phase was washed brine , dried Na2504 , filtered, and evaporated to a solid which was purified by silica gel chromatography dichloromethane methanol to give 28 mg 50 of the desired compound. Mass spectrum M H 540. Anal. calcd. for C30H45N504 C, 66.8 H, 8.4 N, 13.0. Found C, 67.1 H, 8.5 N, 13.0. Example 103 2 R,S Amino 1,2,3,4, tetrahydronaphtalene 2 carboxylic acid, R,S TC A stirred suspension of 7,8 benzo 1,3 diazaspirC4.5ldecane 2,4 dione 1.73 g, 8.00 mmol and Ba OH 28H H20 in water 12 ml was heated in a 2 2 sealed tube at 1900C for 2 hours. The suspension was then filtered while warm. The solids were washed with water, and the combined aqueous phase was treated with ammonium carbonate. Filtration, euaporation, re solution, and lyopholization provided 0.44 g 29 of the corresponding amino acid. Mass spectrum MtH 192. Example 104 2 R,S Ethoxycarbonylamino 1,2,3,4 tetrahydronaphthalene 2 carboxylic ncid EtOC R,S TC To a stirred 0 C solution of the resultant compound of Example 103 250 mg, 1.31 mmol in 1 MNaOH 1 M NaHC03 1.31 ml 2.62 ml was added ethoxycarbonyl O hydroxysuccinimide ester 245 mg, 1.31 mmol in dioxane 2.6 ml . After 22 hours, the mixture was acidified 2 M HCl and extracted ethyl acetate, 3 x 10 ml . The combined organic phase was washed water 3x, brine 2x , dried NaS04 , filtered, and evaporated to a residue which was chromatographed on silica gel dichloromethane, methanol to give 183 mg 53 of the desired compound. Mass spectrum M 263. Anal. calcd for C14H 17NO4 C, 63.8 H, 6.5 N, 5.3. Found C, 63.4 H, 6.4., N, 5.5. Example 105 EtOC R,S RTCR His Nmide of 2 S Amino l cyclohexyl 3 R ,4 S dihydroxy 6 methylheptane Following the procedure of Example 100, but replacing the resultant product of Example 99 with the resultant product of Example 104, gave the desired product. Mass spectrum M H 626. Example 106 R,S nTCn His flmide of 2 S mino 1 cyclohexyl 3 R ,4 S dihydroxy 6 methylheptane Using the procedure of Example 101, but replacing the resultant product of Example 99 with the resultant product of Example 104, gave the corresponding anhydride derivative. Following the procedure ofExample 102, but replacing the anhydride derivative ofExample 101 with the aboue anhydride derivative, gave the desired product. Example 107 2 Ethoxycarbonyi 1 2,3 ,4 tetrahydro 3 R,S isoquinolinecarboxylic acid EtOC TIC Following the procedure of Example 104, but replacing the resultant compound of Example 103 with 1,2,3,4 tetrahydro 3 R,S isoquinolinecarboxylic acid hydrochloride, gave the desired product. Example 108 EtOC TIC His Nmide of 2 S Rmino l cvclohexyl 3 R ,4 S dihvdroxv 6 methylheptane Following the procedure of Example 100, but replacing the resultant compound of Example 99 with the resultant compound of Example 107, gave the desired product. Mass spectrum M H 612. Example 109 l Oxo 1,2,3,4 tetrahvdro 3 R,S isoguinolinecarboxylic ncid OTIC OH To a solution of sodio diethyl acetamidomalonate 0.046 mol in ethanol 125 ml was added o cyanobenzyl bromide 9 g, 0.046 mol all at once. The reaction was stirred overnight at room temperature and then distributed between ether and aqueous NaCl. Drying and evaporating gave a solid product. R 1.5 g sample of this material was heated at reflux for 3 hours with 25 ml of 48 HBr. After cooling, the mixture was diluted with aqueous NaCl and was extracted with ethyl acetate.The organic extract was washed, dried, and evaporated to give 250 mg of product, mp 235 2380C. Nnal. calcd. for C 10H9NO3 C, 62.82 H, 4.74 N, 7.33. Found C, 61.69 H, 4.78 N, 7.11. Example 110 OTIC His Rmide of 2 S nmino 1 cyclohexyl 3 R ,4 S dihydroxy 6 methylheptane Following the procedure of Example 100, but replacing the resultant compound of Example 99 with the resultant compound of Example 109, gave the desired compound. Mass spectrum M H 554. Cnal. calcd. for C30H43N505.1 2H20 C, 64.0 H, 7.9 N, 12.4. Found C, 63.7 H, 8.4 N, 11.8. Example 111 2 5 Ethoxycarbonylamino 2 methyl 3 phenylpropionic ncid EtOC QMPR OH Following the procedure of Example 104, but replacing the resultant compound of Example 103 with 2 S amino 2 methyl 3 phenylpropionic acid, gave the desired compound. Mass spectrum M 251. Example 112 RMPR His flmide of 2 S Amino l cyclohexyl 3 R ,4 S dihydroxy 6 methylheptane Using the procedure of Example 101, but replacing the resultant product of Example 99 with the resultant product of Example 111, gave the corresponding anhydride derivative. Following the procedure ofExample 102, but replacing the anhydride derivative ofExample 101 with the above anhydride derivatiue, gave the desired product. Mass spectrum M H 541. Example 113 4 S2 Benzyl 2,4 dimethyloxazol 5 one 2 S Rcetylamino 2 methyl 3 propionic acid 0.68 g was refluxed in acetic anhydride 5 ml for 5 hours. Evaporation under high uacuum gave the desired product in quantitative yield which was used in the next step without further purification. Example 114 Ncetvl RMPR His Amide of S mino 1 cyclohexyl 3 RD,4 S dihydroxy 6 methvlheptane Following the procedure of Example 102, but replacing the resultant compound of Example 101 with the resultant compound of Example 113, gave the desired product. Mass spectrum M H 584. Example 115 N Carboxy 2 amino 2,2 dibenzylacetic Acid Anhydride Following the procedure of Example 101, but replacing the resultant compound of Example 99 with 2 benzyloxycarbonylamino 2,2 dibenzylacetic acid Cbz ADBA OH , gave the desired compound. Mass spectrum M 281. Example 116 NDBn His Rmide of 2 S Amino l cvclohexyl 3 R ,4 S dihydroxv 6 methvlheptane Using the procedure of Example 101, but replacing the resultant product of Example 99 with the resultant product of Example 115, gave the corresponding anhydride derivative. Following the procedure ofExample 102, but replacing the anhydride derivative ofExample 101 with the aboue anhydride derivative, gave the desired product. The compounds of the present invention can be used in the Form of salts derived from inorganic or organic acids. These salts include but are not limited to the following acetate, adipate, alginate, aspartate, benzoate, benzenesulfonate, bisulfate, butyrate, citrate, camphorate, camphorsulfonate, cyclopentanepropionate, digluconate, dodecylsulfate, ethanesulfonate, fumarate, glucoheptanoate, glycerophosphate, hemisulfate, heptonate, hexanoate, hydrochloride, hydrobromide, hydroiodide, 2 hydroxy ethanesulfonate, lactate, maleate, methanesulfonate, 2 naphthalenesulfonate, nicotinate, oxalate, pamoate, pectinate, persulfate, 3 phenyipropionate, picrate, pivalate, propionate, succinate, tartrate, thiocyanate, tosylate, and undecanoate. Rlso, the basic nitrogen containing groups can be quaternized with such agents as loweralkyl halides, such as methyl, ethyl, propyl, and butyl chloride, bromides, and iodides dialkyl sulfates like dimethyl, diethyl, butyl., and diamyl sulfates, long chain halides such as decyl, lauryl, myristyl and stearyl chlorides, bromides and iodides, aralkyl halides like benzyl and phenethyl bromides, and others. Water or oil soluble or dispersible products are thereby obtained. The novel compounds of the present invention possess an excellent degree of activity and specificity in treating renin associated hypertension in a host. The ability of the compounds of the invention to inhibit human renal renin can be demonstrated in vitro by reacting a selected compound at varied concentrations with human renal renin, free from acid proteolytic activity, and with human renin substrate angiotensinogen at 370C and pH 6.0. nt the end of the incubation, the amount of angiotensin I Formed is measured by radioimmunoassay and the molar concentration required to cause 50 inhibition, expressed as theIC50, is calculated.When tested in accordance with the foregoing procedure, the compounds of the invention demonstrated C50,s in the range of 10 5 to 10 10 Total daily dose administered to a host in single or divided doses may be in amounts, for example, from 0.001 to 10 sng kg body weight daily and more usually 0.01 to 1 mg. Dosage unit compositions may contain such amounts of submultiples thereof to make up the daily dose. The amount of active ingredient that may be combined with the carrier materials to produce a single dosage form will vary depending upon the host treated and the particular ode of administration. It will be understood, however, that the specific dose level for any particular patient will depend upon a variety of factors including the activity of the specific compound employed, the age, body weight, general health, sex, diet, time of administration, route of administration, rate of excretion, drug combination, and the severity of the particular disease undergoing therapy. The compounds of the present invention may be administered orally, parenterally, by inhalation spray, rectally, or topically in dosage unit formulations containing conventional nontoxic pharmaceutically acceptable carriers, adjutants, and vehicles as desired. the term parenteral as used herein includes subcutaneous injections, intravenous, intramuscular, intrasternal injection, or infusion techniques. Injectable preparation, for example, sterile injectable aqueous or oleagenous suspensions may be formulated according to the known art using suitable dispersing or wetting agents and suspending agents. The sterile injectable preparation may also be a sterile injectable solution or suspension in a nontoxic parenterally acceptable diluent or soluent, for example, as a solution in 1,3 butanediol. Among the acceptable vehicles and solvents that may be employed are water, Ringer s solution, and isotonic sodium chloride solution. In addition, sterile, fixed oils are conuentionally employed as a solvent or suspending medium. For this purpose any bland fixed oil may be employed including synthetic mono or diglycerides. In addition, fatty acids such as oleic acid find use in the preparation of injectables. Suppositories for rectal administration of the drug can be prepared by mixing the drug with a suitable nonirritating excipient such as cocoa butter and polyethylene glycols which are solid at ordinary temperatures but liquid at the rectal temperature and will therefore melt in the rectum and release the drug. Solid dosage forms for oral administration may include capsules, tablets, pills, powders, and granules. In such solid dosage forms, the active compound may be admixed with at least one inert diluent such as sucrose lactose or starch. Such dosage forms may also comprise, as is normal practice, additional substances other than inert diluents, e.g., lubricating agents such as magnesium stearate. In the case of capsules, tablets, and pills, the dosage forms may also comprise buffering agents. Tablets and pills can additionally be prepared with enteric coatings. Liquid dosage forms for oral administration may include pharmaceutically acceptable emulsions, solutions, suspensions, syrups, and elixirs containing inert diluents commonly used in the art, such as water.Such compositions may also comprise adjuvants, such as wetting agents, emulsifying and suspending agents, and sweetening, flavoring, and perfuming agents. The foregoing is merely illustrative of the invention and is not intended to limit the invention to the disclosed compounds. Variations and changes which are obvious to one skilled in the art are intended to be within the scope and nature of the invention which are defined in the appended claims.