# DESCENT FLIGHT PATH CONTROL FOR AIRCRAFT

## Claims
Sink Steuereinrichtung zur Verwendung in einem Flugzeug Flugregelsystem mit einer Servoeinrichtung zur Steuerung der Flugzeug Steiglage, wenn das Flugzeug in einem konstanten minimalen Schubmodus betrieben wird, um die nominelle Sinkgeschwindigkeit zu erhöhen oder zu vermindern und eine berechnete Flugstrecke einzuhalten, und mit einer Einrichtung zur Vorgabe von Signalen entsprechend einer gewünschten Sink Streckenhöhe h

## Description
The present invention relates generally to aircraft automatic flight control systems and more specifically to the capturing and control of a precomputed descent path. Most commercial transport aircraft, general aviation aircraft, and military aircraft are equipped with an automatic flight control system. Automatic flight control systems generally provide the human pilot with the capability of altering the flight path of the aircraft. Many of these aircraft are equipped with either Performances or Flight Management systems. These systems are generally interfaced with the automatic flight control system in such a way as to be able to control the flight path of the aircraft. This capability therefore allows the control of the aircraft either to a desired speed or altitude by adjusting its flight path to an appropriate value. The aforementioned Performance and Flight Management systems often determine a computed descent path and speed to a predetermined geographical location. The calculation of these descent paths necessarily requires assumptions about the winds that will be encountered during the descent since their exact nature is unknown. Thus, winds that differ significantly from those assumed will cause the aircraft to deviate from the optimum path and thereby either under or over fly the desired geographical location. Thus, it is desirable to devise some method of control that will capture and maintain the computed descent path. The method used in the prior art is to determine the difference between the aircraft altitude and the altitude of the descent path at the same point, thereby determining an altitude or path error. This error is then used to adjust the flight path angle of the aircraft until the error is null in the well known method of feedback control systems. This method is disclosed, for example, in US A 4 021 009. In essence, this scheme is an altitude hold control law wherein the commanded altitude is continually decreasing. As the speed of the aircraft is not controlled directly, either excessively fast or slow speeds may occur during the corrections back to the computed path. To assure the aircraft does not exceed its performance capabilities, it is necessary continuously to monitor the speed of the aircraft and abandon the path correction feature and control the speed of the aircraft within acceptable limits should the speed of the aircraft approach its performance limits. Thus, such schemes are necessarily complex and entail the incorporation of altitude error and speed error control laws and a suitable means of switching between the two. Furthermore, it is generally necessary to have a different control law for capturing the path than is used for tracking the path since the capturing of a path is usually a much more dynamic manoeuvre than tracking. The present invention is defined in the appended claims and provides means for automatic capture and tracking of a computed descent flight path for an aircraft by increasing or decreasing the nominal descent speed to cause convergence to the computed path. An incremental speed command is computed as a function of deviation from the computed path and is added algebraically to a nominal descent speed command. The incremental speed command is rate limited to minimise objectionable pitch manoeuvres of the aircraft. Thus the present invention overcomes the shortcomings of the prior art by utilising an incremental speed command to cause convergence to, and tracking of, the computed descent path. As noted, Performance and Flight Management systems generally compute both a descent path and a nominal speed for descent. The present invention increases or decreases the commanded speed as a function of descent path error. Descent control apparatus in accordance with the present invention will now be described in greater detail, by way of example, with reference to the accompanying drawings, in which The present invention is useful in any Performance or Flight Management system or other system that computes a descent path for an aircraft to follow from its cruise altitude to any desired geographical point at a lower altitude and that is fully coupled to an automatic flight control or flight director system. Referring to Figure 1, the computed descent path 3 is a line based upon the desired descent speed of the aircraft and the assumed winds. Typically, the assumed winds are based on a linear decay of the wind measured at cruise altitude. This is represented on Figure 1 by reference numeral 8 wherein the length of the arrows represent the magnitude of the wind at various altitudes. The intersection of the computed descent path 3 with the cruise altitude defines the beginning of descent point 2. At this point, the aircraft should begin its descent at the nominal speed with the throttles at idle power. If the assumed winds are very nearly equal to the actual winds encountered, the aircraft would then descend along the computed descent path 3 until it reaches the desired end of descent point 6. However, should the actual winds differ significantly from those assumed, as for example the actual winds represented by the large arrows 9 superimposed over the assumed winds given by arrows 8, the actual flight path of the aircraft will follow curve 4 and thus miss the desired end of descent point 6. At any given point during the descent, as for example point 5, a path error may be computed. The path error, defined as Δh, is derived by subtracting the actual altitude of the aircraft from the altitude of the computed descent path at the same point. Significant path errors may also develop in the absence of winds. Referring now to Figure 2, the computed flight path 13 will intersect the cruise altitude of the aircraft 10 at point 11, thus defining the computed beginning of descent point as described above. It is not uncommon for the beginning of a descent to be delayed because of Air Traffic Control restrictions. Thus, the aircraft may have to maintain its cruise altitude 10 for some distance beyond the computed descent point 11 and finally to begin its descent at point 12. Flying at the desired speed, the aircraft s actual flight path 14 will parallel the computed descent path 13 and hence the aircraft will fly beyond the desired end of descent point 16. The present invention provides means for automatically compensating for path error that may occur due to either of the previously discussed causes or for any other reason. The invention takes advantage of the fact that an aircraft in descent will descend more quickly with an increase in speed and conversely will descend less quickly with a decrease in speed. Thus, in the case where the aircraft is above the computed descent path, increasing its speed above the nominal will tend to make the aircraft descend more quickly and hence cause it to converge toward the computed flight path. Thus, an incremental speed command may be calculated that is proportional to the magnitude of the path error Δ h. This incremental speed error may be algebraically added to the nominal descent speed command to cause the aircraft to increase or decrease its speed about the nominal and thus result in the aircraft converging with the computed path and hence arriving at the desired end of descent point. A further refinement of the present invention may be obtained by rate limiting the incremental speed command. The benefits of rate limiting may be appreciated from the following discussion. Assume that the aircraft is significantly above the computed descent path and that a proportional incremental increase in speed is computed. As the aircraft begins to accelerate to the new speed, that is the nominal plus the incremental speed, it will necessarily increase its rate of descent. This will cause a decrease in the path error and thus a decrease in the proportional incremental speed command. The aircraft will then have to decelerate toward the new lesser computed speed. As it decelerates, its rate of descent will decrease and the path error will thus increase, causing an increase in the incremental speed command once more. The described action can cause an objectionable oscillatory tendency in the actual flight path of the aircraft which is eliminated by rate limiting the incremental speed command. The derivation of the rate limiter is further obtained from the steady state longitudinal equation of motion of aircraft The thrust of the engine s at idle power is very nearly zero, the drag of the aircraft for relatively small changes in airspeed is very nearly constant, and the weight of the aircraft does not change significantly in descent. Thus, the left side of the equation 1 is very nearly constant and for a typical modern commercial jet, the left side of the equation 1 may be replaced by 0.07. Using the value of 0.07, it being realised that the solution to the complete left hand expression could also be used, the above equation may be simplified to The term v g is relatively small compared to h v and may thus be ignored in this derivation. Consequently, the equation may be further simplified to The above equation describes the relationship between the descent rate and true airspeed of the aircraft. Letting the subscript 1 denote the condition of descent at nominal descent speed and on the computed descent path and the subscript 2 denote any other condition, the above equation may be solved for h and two general equations written Thus, an incremental Mach number that is proportional to a path error Δh will cause a convergence rate Δh to the computed path according to equation 9 . As previously stated, the incremental Mach number is proportional to the path error, Δh Equation 13 is the expression for determining the rate limit on the incremental Mach number. By way of example, assume the value of a equals 1016 feet per second 309m s , K It will be appreciated from the foregoing that the overall action of the rate limit on the incremental Mach results in an exponential achievement of the computed descent path by virtue of the maintenance of a convergence rate consistent with the path error Δh. Such a scheme minimises the oscillatory tendencies aforementioned by eliminating the relatively short term dynamics of accelerating or decelerating the aircraft to a new descent speed. The present invention may be implemented using conventional analogue circuitry and computational techniques, or by using conventional wholly digital techniques, or by using conventional hybrid digital analogue techniques. To simplify the understanding of the invention, it will be explained by using a generally analogue format as shown in Figure 3, it being understood that the same analogue format may also represent, in block diagram form, the program of a programmable digital computer wherein the various analogue inputs are converted to digital signals for digital processing and the various digital outputs are converted to analogue signals for driving the control surface servomotors and the like. Referring to Figure 3, assume the aircraft has begun its descending flight, either initiated by the human pilot or by automatic means. Switch blade 49 will then move from its shown position and make contact with a terminal 50. Simultaneously, a conventional air data computer 20 supplies a signal proportional to the actual altitude of the aircraft, h The gain block 41 multiplies the signal on the lead 33 by the value of K The output of the gain block 41 is coupled to a limiter 42 which limits the magnitude of the incremental Mach between positive and negative values, as for example Lead 40 supplies the incremental Mach signal to a conventional absolute value taker 53 which outputs a signal equal to the magnitude of the input with a positive sign. The output of absolute value taker 53 is impressed on a conventional gain block 54 which multiplies the impressed value by the value of K The rate limiter 45 functions in the following manner. Assume that the value of the signal on the lead 44 changes instantaneously from one value to another, as for example from 0 to 0.83 ΔM. Accordingly, the signal appearing on the lead 61 will be the solution to equation 13 or 0.07K The output of the rate limiter appearing on lead 46 is impressed on switch contact 47 and subsequently through switch blade 49, on switch contact 50 to a conventional summation device 63. The nominal descent speed command, M The conventional air data computer 20 supplies a signal proportional to the aircraft s Mach number on lead 21 and thence to a conventional summation device 28 via lead 27, and to a conventional rate taker 24, via a lead 23. The output of the rate taker 24 is a signal proportional to the time rate of change of Mach number, shown in the Figure as M . The output of the rate taker 24 is impressed on a conventional gain block 25 whose action is to multiply the impressed signal by the value of K₁, a typical value being 3.0. A signal proportional to K₁M is thence suppled to a conventional summation device 28, via a lead 26. The summation device 28 forms the algebraic sum of the terms The lead 67 couples the output of the limiter 64 to the conventional summation device 68 which takes the difference between the signals appearing on leads 67 and 29, the output appearing on a lead 69. The signal appearing on the lead 69 is thus the difference between the newly computed descent speed and the summation of the actual Mach number of the aircraft and its Mach rate. The signal on the lead 69 is impressed upon a conventional gain block 70 whose function is to multiply the impressed signal by the value of K Signals proportional to the pitch angle and pitch rate 80 of the aircraft are supplied to the summation device 74 via a lead 73 in the conventional manner. The output signal of the summation device 74 is applied to the servomotor 76 which, through a mechanical linkage 77, moves the aircraft s elevator or horizontal stabiliser 78. A mechanical linkage 79 supplies the summation device 74 with a signal proportional to elevator or horizontal stabiliser position so that the signal on the lead 75 is reduced to null in the steady state condition. The action of the present invention may be understood by referring to Figure 4 which is similar in nature to Figure 1 except that the present invention is used to control the descent flight path of the aircraft in the manner described above. The aircraft begins its descent from its cruise altitude 90 at point 91, the beginning of descent point. As the aircraft descends, it will experience actual winds 98 different from those 97 assumed in the descent path computation and will therefore deviate from the computed path 92 along the curve 93, thereby experiencing a path error. Through the action described in Figure 3, a rate limited incremental Mach number will be added to the nominal descent speed to produce a convergence back toward the computed descent path 92 until the aircraft is back upon the computed path and the path error is null. This occurs at point 94. Henceforth, small values of rate limited incremental Mach numbers will be added or subtracted from the nominal descent speed to maintain the aircraft on the computed descent path until the desired end of descent point 96 is achieved. Figure 5, which is similar in nature to Figure 2, illustrates the action of the present invention when the descent is begun at a distance significantly different from the computed beginning of descent point. The aircraft maintains a cruise altitude 100 until the descent is begun at point 102 which is significantly beyond the computed end of descent point 101. As the computed descent path is well below the actual altitude of the aircraft at point 102, a large path error occurs. The present invention computes a rate limited incremental Mach that is added to the nominal descent speed. The increased descent speed results in a higher rate of descent and thus produces a convergence rate to the computed path along the curve 104, the actual flight path of the aircraft. The aircraft continues along curve 104 until it intersects the computed flight path 103 at point 105. Since the path error has continually decreased during the convergence to the computed path, the rate limited incremental Mach has also decreased according to the action described in Figure 3 until the descent speed is equal to the nominal descent speed when the aircraft intersects the computed flight path 103. Hence, the aircraft s flight path will match the computed descent path during the line segment 106 until the desired end of descent point 107 is achieved. From the foregoing, it will be appreciated that the present invention provides improved capture and maintenance of a computed descent path in the following manner