# Built liquid detergent containing anionic, ethoxylated nonionic and amide surfactants.

## Abstract
Heavy duty liquid laundry detergent compositions containing anionic synthetic surfactant, a mixture of ethoxylated nonionic surfactant and amide surfactant in a weight ratio of from about 4 1 to about 1 4, and a calcium selective builder, preferably a fatty acid or polycarboxylate builder, are disclosed. The compositions provide superior cleaning on greasy and oily soils and overall outstanding detergency performance.

## Claims
1. A heavy duty liquid laundry detergent composition comprising, by weight

## Description
The present invention relates heavy duty liquid laundry detergent compositions containing anionic synthetic surfactant, ethoxylated nonionic surfactant, amide surfactant, and a calcium selective detergent builder. This combination of ingredients provides superior cleaning on greasy and oily soils and overall outstanding detergency performance under a wide variety of laundering conditions, including washing in cool and cold water. U.S. Patent 4,153,570, Hennemann et al, issued May 8, 1979, discloses low foaming liquid detergents containing a specific mixture of anionic surfactants, ethoxylated nonionic surfactants, amide surfactant, fatty acid soap, hydrotrope and solvent. The compositions have a low ratio of anionic to nonionic surfactant. They can contain up to 6 of the soap, and up to 2 of a heavy metal complexing agent. U.S. Patent 3,707,503, Kenny, issued December 26, 1972, discloses stable, controlled sudsing heavy duty liquid detergents containing anionic surfactants, fatty acid and alkanolamide in a weight ratio of fatty acid to amide of 1 2 to 1 11. British Patent 1,573,908, Owen, published August 28, 1980, discloses concentrated liquid detergents containing anionic, ethoxylated nonionic and amide surfactants. There is no reference to detergent builders. U.S. Patent 3,856,711, Mausner et al, issued December 24, 1974, discloses concentrated, low foaming liquid detergents containing anionic, ethoxylated nonionic and amide surfactants. Detergent builders are not mentioned. European Patent Application No. 0 095 205, Wertz et al, published November 30, 1983, discloses detergent compositions containing anionic surfactants, quaternary ammonium, amine or amine oxide surfactants, and fatty acids, and formulated to provide a near neutral wash pH. The compositions are preferably liquid detergents which additionally contain ethoxylated nonionic surfactants and polycarboxylate builders. The present invention encompasses a heavy duty liquid laundry detergent composition comprising, by weight The liquid detergents of the present invention contain anionic synthetic surfactant, ethoxylated nonionic surfactant, amide surfactant, and a calcium selective builder. As used herein, the term calcium selective builder means any detergent builder that preferentially controls calcium ion in the wash solution, rather than magnesium or other hardness ions. This includes all manner of detergent builders except for polyphosphates, such as the tripolyphosphates, pyrophosphates, orthophosphates and glassy polymeric metaphosphates. The calcium selective builder should be used at a level sufficient to sequester of at least about 2.0, preferably at least about 2.5, more preferably at least about 3.0, grains per gallon of calcium carbonate, while leaving at least about 0.5, preferably at least about 1.0, more preferably at least about 1.5, and up to a maximum of about 4, grains per gallon of unsequestered hardness, preferably in the form of magnesium. The calcium selective builder generally represents from about 5 to about 30 , preferably from about 8 to about 25 , more preferably from about 10 to about 20 , by weight of the composition. It is believed that the calcium selective builder adequately controls wash water hardness, preventing excessive interactions with anionic surfactants and with soils, while allowing sufficient free hardness to complex some of the anionic surfactant to produce a hardness surfactant such as magnesium linear alkylbenzene sulfonate that is highly effective at removing greasy and oily soils. Such hardness surfactants pack at the oil water interface where they lower interfacial tension and enhance removal of greasy oily soils. The ethoxylated nonionic surfactants herein suspend hardness surfactants in the wash water solution. They are used at a level high enough to prevent excessive precipitation of hardness surfactants at the oil water interface which makes soil removal more difficult , but low enough to allow for the desired adsorption and packing at the interface. The amide surfactants further reduce oil water interfacial tension, by hydrogen bonding with anionic surfactants, to improve greasy oily soil removal. It will be appreciated that the level and type of surfactants and builders herein can thus be selected to optimize greasy oily soil removal while providing overall outstanding detergency performance. The detergent compositions herein contain from about 10 to about 50 , preferably from about 15 to about 40 , more preferably from about 18 to about 30 , by weight, on an acid basis, of an anionic synthetic surfactant. Anionic synthetic surfactants are disclosed in U.S. Patent 4,285,841, Barrat et al, issued August 25, 1981, and in U.S. Patent 3,919,678, Laughlin et al, issued December 30, 1975, both incorporated herein by reference. Useful anionic surfactants include the water soluble salts, particularly the alkali metal, ammonium and alkylolammonium e.g., monoethanolammonium or triethanol ammonium salts, of organic sulfuric reaction products having in their molecular structure an alkyl group containing from about 8 to about 20 carbon atoms and a sulfonic acid or sulfuric acid ester group. Included in the term alkyl is the alkyl portion of aryl groups. Examples of this group of synthetic surfactants are the alkyl sulfates, especially those obtained by sulfating the higher alcohols C₈ C₁₈ carbon atoms such as those produced by reducing the glycerides of tallow or coconut oil and the alkylbenzene sulfonates in which the alkyl group contains from about 9 to about 15 carbon atoms, in straight chain or branched chain configuration, e.g., those of the type described in United States Patents 2,220,099 and 2,477,383. Other anionic surfactants herein are the water soluble salts of paraffin sulfonates containing from about 8 to about 24 preferably about 12 to 18 carbon atoms alkyl glyceryl ether sulfonates, especially those ethers of C Other useful anionic surfactants herein include the water soluble salts of esters of alpha sulfonated fatty acids containing from about 6 to about 20 carbon atoms in the fatty acid group and from about 1 to 10 carbon atoms in the ester group water soluble salts of 2 acyloxy alkane 1 sulfonic acids containing from about 2 to 9 carbon atoms in the acyl group and from about 9 to about 23 carbon atoms in the alkane moiety water soluble salts of olefin sulfonates containing from about 12 to 24 carbon atoms and beta alkyloxy alkane sulfonates containing from about 1 to 3 carbon atoms in the alkyl group and from about 8 to 20 carbon atoms in the alkane moiety. Preferred anionic surfactants herein are the alkyl sulfates of the formula RO C₂H₄O Highly preferred anionic surfactants are the linear straight chain alkylbenzene sulfonates in which the average number of carbon atoms in the alkyl group is from about 12 to about 13, and the C Compositions of the present invention also contain from about 5 to about 20 , preferably from about 6 to about 15 , more preferably from about 7 to about 12 , by weight of a mixture of an ethoxylated nonionic surfactant and an amide surfactant in a weight ratio of from about 4 1 to 1 4, preferably from about 3 1 to about 1 3, more preferably from about 2 1 to about 1 2. In addition, the weight ratio of anionic synthetic surfactant on an acid basis to the total nonionic surfactant both the ethoxylated nonionic and the amide should be from about 2 1 to about 4 1, preferably from about 2.5 1 to about 3.5 1, to ensure the formation and adsorption of sufficient hardness surfactants at the oil water interface to provide good greasy oily soil removal. The ethoxylated nonionic surfactants herein have an HLB hydrophilic lipophilic balance of from about 5 to about 17, preferably from about 6 to about 13. HLB is defined in detail in Examples of compounds of this type include nonyl phenol condensed with about 9.5 moles of ethylene oxide per mole of nonyl phenol dodecylphenol condensed with about 12 moles of ethylene oxide per mole of phenol dinonyl phenol condensed with about 15 moles of ethylene oxide per mole of phenol and diisooctyl phenol condensed with about 15 moles of ethylene oxide per mole of phenol. Commercially available nonionic surfactants of this type include Igepal CO 630, marketed by the GAF Corporation, and Triton X 45, X 114, X 100, and X 102, all marketed by the Rohm Haas Company. 2 The condensation products of aliphatic alcohols with from about 1 to about 25 moles of ethylene oxide. The alkyl chain of the aliphatic alcohol can either be straight or branched, primary or secondary, and generally contains from about 8 to about 22 carbon atoms. Examples of such ethoxylated alcohols include the condensation product of myristyl alcohol condensed with about 10 moles of ethylene oxide per mole of alcohol and the condensation product of about 9 moles of ethylene oxide with coconut alcohol a mixture of fatty alcohols with alkyl chains varying in length from 10 to 14 carbon atoms . Examples of commercially available nonionic surfactants in this type include Tergitol 15 S 9, marketed by union Carbide Corporation, Neodol 45 9, Neodol 23 6.5, Neodol 45 7, and Neodol 45 4, marketed by Shell Chemical Company, and Kyro EOB, marketed by The Procter Gamble Company. 3 The condensation products of ethylene oxide with a hydrophobic base formed by the condensation of propylene oxide with propylene glycol. The hydrophobic portion of these compounds has a molecular weight of from about 1500 to 1800 and exhibits water insolubility. The addition of polyoxyethylene moieties to this hydrophobic portion tends to increase the water solubility of the molecule as a whole, and the liquid character of the product is retained up to the point where the polyoxyethylene content is about 50 of the total weight of the condensation product, which corresponds to condensation with up to about 40 moles of ethylene oxide. Examples of compounds of this type include certain of the commercially available Pluronic surfactants, marketed by Wyandotte Chemical Corporation. 4 The condensation products of ethylene oxide with the product resulting from the reaction of propylene oxide and ethylenediamine. The hydrophobic moiety of these products consists of the reaction product of ethylenediamine and excess propylene oxide, said moiety having a molecular weight of from about 2500 to about 3000. This hydrophobic moiety is condensed with ethylene oxide to the extent that the condensation product contains form about 40 to about 80 by weight of polyoxyethylene and has a molecular weight of from about 5,000 to about 11,000. Examples of this type of nonionic surfactant include certain of the commercially available Tetronic compounds, marketed by Wyandotte Chemical Corporation. Preferred ethoxylated nonionic surfactants are of the formula R¹ OC₂H₄ Amide surfactants herein are of the formula Preferred amides are the C₈ C₂₀ fatty acid alkylol amides in which each alkylol group contains from 1 to 3 carbon atoms, and additionally can contain up to about 2 ethylene oxide units. Particularly preferred are the C₁₂ C₁₆ fatty acid monoethanol and diethanol amides. The compositions of the present invention comprise from about 5 to about 30 , preferably from about 8 to about 25 , more preferably from about 10 to about 20 , by weight of a calcium selective builder. Preferred builders herein are fatty acids containing from about 12 to about 22 carbon atoms. Preferred are saturated fatty acids containing from about 12 to about 18 carbon atoms. Suitable saturated fatty acids can be obtained from natural sources such as plant or animal esters e.g., palm kernel oil, palm oil and coconut oil or synthetically prepared e.g., via the oxidation of petroleum or by hydrogenation of carbon monoxide via the Fisher Tropsch process . Examples of suitable saturated fatty acids for use in the compositions of this invention include capric, lauric, myristic, coconut and palm kernel fatty acid. Preferred are saturated coconut fatty acids from about 5 1 to 1 1 preferably about 3 1 weight ratio mixtures of lauric and myristic acid mixtures of the above with minor amounts e.g., 1 30 of total fatty acid of oleic acid and palm kernel fatty acid. Other preferred builders herein are the water soluble polycarboxylate builders described in U.S. Patent 4,284,532, Leikhim et al, issued August 18, 1981, incorporated herein by reference. The various aminopolycarboxylates, cycloalkane polycarboxylates, ether polycarboxylates, alkyl polycarboxylates, epoxy polycarboxylates, tetrahydrofuran polycarboxylates, benzene polycarboxylates, and polyacetal polycarboxylates are suitable for use herein. Examples of such polycarboxylate builders are sodium and potassium ethylenediaminetetraacetate sodium and potassium nitrilotriacetate the water soluble salts of phytic acid, e.g., sodium and potassium phytates, disclosed in U.S. Patent 1,739,942, Eckey, issued March 27, 1956, incorporated herein by reference the polycarboxylate materials described in U.S. Patent 3,364,103, incorporated herein by reference and the water soluble salts of polycarboxylate polymers and copolymers described in U.S. Patent 3,308,067, Diehl, issued March 7, 1967, incorporated herein by reference. Useful detergent builders also include the water soluble salts of polymeric aliphatic polycarboxylic acids having the following structural and physical characteristics a a minimum molecular weight of about 350 calculated as to the acid form b an equivalent weight of about 50 to about 80 calculated as to acid form 3 at least 45 mole percent of the monomeric species having at least two carboxyl radicals separated from each other by not more than two carbon atoms d the site of attachment of the polymer chain of any carboxyl containing radical being separated by not more than three carbon atoms along the polymer chain from the site of attachment of the next carboxyl containing radical. Specific examples of such builders are the polymers and copolymers of itaconic acid, aconitic acid, maleic acid, mesaconic acid, fumaric acid, methylene malonic acid, and citraconic acid. Other suitable polycarboxylate builders include the water soluble salts, especially the sodium and potassium salts, of mellitic acid, citric acid, pyromellitic acid, benzene pentacarboxylic acid, oxydiacetic acid, carboxymethyloxysuccinic acid, carboxymethyloxymalonic acid, cis cyclohexanehexacarboxylic acid, cis cyclopentanetetracarboxylic acid and oxydisuccinic acid. Other polycarboxylates for use herein are the polyacetal carboxylates described in U.S. Patent 4,144,226, issued March 13, 1979 to Crutchfield et al, and U.S. Patent 4,146,495, issued March 27, 1979 to Crutchfield et al, both incorporated herein by reference. Other calcium selective detergent builders useful herein include the aluminosilicate ion exchange material described in U.S. Patent 4,405,483, Kuzel et al, issued September 20, 1983, incorporated herein by reference. Crystalline aluminosilicates are of the formula Na Preferred synthetic crystalline aluminosilicate ion exchange materials useful herein are available under the designations Zeolite A, Zeolite B, and Zeolite X. In an especially preferred embodiment, the crystalline aluminosilicate ion exchange material has the formula Na₁₂ AlO₂ ₁₂ SiO₂ ₁₂ The compositions also contain from about 20 to about 75 , preferably from about 25 to about 65 , more preferably from about 30 to about 55 , of water. Optional components for use in the liquid detergents herein include neutralizing agents, buffering agents. , phase regulants, solvents, hydrotropes, enzymes, enzyme stabilizing agents, polyacids, suds regulants, opacifiers, antioxidants, bacteriacides, dyes, perfumes, and brighteners described in U.S. Patent 4,285,841, Barrat et al, issued August 25, 1981, incorporated herein by reference. The compositions herein are preferably formulated to provide an initial pH of from about 7.0 to about 9.0, preferably from about 7.0 to about 8.5, more preferably from about 7.2 to about 8.0, at a concentration of from about 0.1 to about 1 by weight in water at 20 C. Such near neutral wash pH s are preferred for best overall detergency performance, including on greasy and oily soils. A preferred neutralization system contains from about 0 to about 0.04 moles, preferably from about 0.01 to about 0.035 moles, more preferably from about 0.015 to about 0.03 moles, per 100 grams of composition of an alkanolamine selected from the group consisting of monoethanolamine, diethanolamine, triethanolamine, and mixtures therof. Low levels of the alkanolamines, particularly monoethanolamine, are preferred to enhance product stability, detergency performance, and odor. However, the amount of alkanolamine should be minimized for best chlorine bleach compatibility. While the present compositions can contain mixtures of the alkanolamines, best color stability is obtained using single alkanolamines. In addition, preferred compositions herein contain potassium and sodium ions in a potassium to sodium molar ratio of from about 0.1 to about 1.3, preferably from about 0.6 to about 1, for best phase stability. A preferred solvent system is comprised of ethanol, a polyol and water. Ethanol is preferably present at a level of from about 2 to about 10 , more preferably from about 5 to about 9 , by weight of the composition. Any polyol containing 2 to 6 carbon atoms and from 2 to 6 hydroxy groups can be used in the present compositions. Examples of such polyols are ethylene glycol, propylene glycol and glycerine. Propylene glycol is particularly preferred. The polyol preferably represents from about 2 to about 15 , more preferably from about 3 to about 10 , by weight of the composition. Preferred compositions herein further contain from about 0.5 to about 5 , preferably from about 1 to about 3 , by weight of a highly ethoxylated polyethyleneamine or polyethyleneimine soil removal and antiredeposition agent, such as those described in European Patent Application No. 112,593, Vander Meer, published July 4, 1984, incorporated herein by reference. A particularly preferred material is tetraethylene pentaimine ethoxylated with about 15 18 moles of ethylene oxide at each hydrogen site. The following examples illustrate the compositions of the present invention. All parts, percentages and ratios used herein are by weight unless otherwise specified. Heavy duty liquid laundry detergents of the present invention are as follows. Composition A is preferably prepared by adding the components, with continuous mixing, in the following order paste premix of alkylbenzene sulfonic acid, sodium hydroxide, propylene glycol and ethanol paste premix of alkyl polyethoxylate sulfuric acid, sodium hydroxide and ethanol premix of water, brighteners, alkanolamine, and alcohol polyethoxylate alcohol polyethoxylate ethanol sodium and potassium hydroxide fatty acid citric acid premix of formate, amide and TEPA E Compositions B and C can be prepared in a similar manner. Composition A provided better overall cleaning, particularly on greasy oil soils at warm 95 F wash water temperatures, than similar compositions containing 8 of the alcohol polyethoxylate and none of the amide, and 8 of the amide and none of the alcohol polyethoxylate.