# MULTIPLE PIXEL MAPPED VIDEO MEMORY SYSTEM

## Claims
Halbleiter Videowiedergabespeicher zum Speichern von Bildelementinformationen für eine Wiedergabe mit einer ersten und einer zweiten Speichermatrix 10 und 12 , wobei jede Matrix mehrere in Zeilen und Spalten angeordnete Speicherelemente aufweist, die vorbestimmten Bildelementstellen in der Wiedergabe zugeordnet sind, wobei die erste und die zweite Speichermatrix identisch sind, Zeilendecodiermitteln 28 für den Empfang einer Zeilenadresse und zum Auswählen einer der Zeilen der Speicherelemente sowohl in der ersten als auch in der zweiten Speichermatrix, ersten und zweiten seriellen Zugriffsmitteln 34 und 36 zum Speichern von Daten aus den ausgewählten Speicherelementen der ersten und der zweiten Speichermatrix in einem seriellen Format, wobei die ersten und zweiten seriellen Zugriffsmittel einen eigenen seriellen Eingang und eigenen seriellen Ausgang aufweisen und aus einer externen Quelle SOE seriell zum Hindurchschieben von Daten durch diese gesteuert werden, Übertragungsmitteln 54 zum Übertragen von Daten aus den ausgewählten Speicherelementen der ersten und der zweiten Matrix zu jeweils einem der ersten und zweiten seriellen Zugriffsmittel oder aus dem jeweiligen seriellen Zugriffsmittel zu den ausgewählten Speicherelementen der ersten und der zweiten Matrix, wobei der Halbleiterspeicher gekennzeichnet ist durch Konfigurierungsmittel 56 und 60 zum Konfigurieren der ersten und zweiten Zugriffsmittel entweder jeweils für einen Umlauf von Daten von ihrem seriellen Ausgang zu ihrem seriellen Eingang oder zum Kaskadieren der ersten und zweiten seriellen Zugriffsmittel, wobei der serielle Ausgang des ersten seriellen Zugriffsmittels mit dem seriellen Eingang des zweiten seriellen Zugriffsmittels verbunden ist.

## Description
In video systems, the information displayed is segmented into discrete elements referred to as pixels , the number of pixels per unit area determining the available resolution. Each of these pixels for a simple black and write system can be defined in terms of one bit of data whereas, a more complex system utilizing pixels having differing colors and intensity levels requires significantly more bits of data. To display the pixel information stored in memory, data is read from memory and then organized in an interim storage medium in a serial format. As each horizontal line in the display is scanned, the pixel data is serially output and converted to video information. For example, the stored data for each black and white pixel correspond to a predetermined position in the scan line and determines the video output for either a white level or a black level. A video display system is described in European Application EP A 0107010 Texas Instruments . The described video display system employs a memory arrangement for the video data which is accessed for serial read out of the bit mapped video information at a high clock rate, and also accessed in parallel by a microcomputer for generating and updating the information to be displayed. Parallel access to the memory by the microcomputer can occur while the serial video data is being clocked out, so microcomputer I O and video output conflict only a very minimum amount. Dynamic MOS RAMs with a serial register added provide a dual port memory. In designing a video memory, two of the primary constraints facing the designer are the number of pixels required per scan line and the scanning rate. This determines how the pixel information is mapped into the memory and the rate at which the stored pixel information must be accessed and serially output. Typically, video memories are pixel mapped such that one row of memory elements or portion thereof directly corresponds to the pixel information of a given scan line or portion thereof. For example, in a black and white system having 256 pixels per scan line, a memory having 256 memory elements per row would be utilized. The information in the row is accessed and stored in the serial shift register for serial output therefrom during a given scan line, thereby requiring only one memory access per scan line. While data is being output from the serial shift register to the display, data is being accessed from the memory for updating of display data. This data is transferred to the shift register during the retrace period between adjacent scan lines. Therefore, the number of rows and columns of memory elements is determined by the number of pixels per scan line, the number of bits of information per pixel and the number of scan lines in the display. In applications utilizing pixel mapped video memories, a large number of individual memories are arranged in arrays such that a single access operation outputs a predetermined pixel pattern. This allows a large number of pixels and or bits per pixel to be output during a single access time, thereby reducing the time required to access a given set of information. This array configuration may require the shift registers associated with individual memories to be either cascaded or arranged in parallel. To facilitate the use of multiple pixel mapped video memories, it is desirable to incorporate more than one memory on a single semiconductor chip. To provide a viable device from both an economical and a marketing standpoint, each of the integrated memories must maintain some degree of independent operation relative to the other memories on the same chip and yet share as many control functions as possible. This is necessary to reduce the number of integrated circuit pins required to interface between the peripheral circuitry and the chip itself and also to reduce the circuit density. When multiple pixel mapped video memories are integrated onto a single semiconductor chip, it is desirable to have independent access to the serial inputs and outputs of each of the memories and also to have independent control of the random Read Write modes for the memories. This would require separate serial in and serial out interface pins for each memory, in addition to separate pins for the Read Write control functions, resulting in an impractical multi pin package. Additionally, the control circuitry required to provide the various independent functions would increase the density of the chip circuitry. In view of the above disadvantages with integrated multiple memory semiconductor chips, it is desirable to provide a multiple memory chip having shared control functions utilizing a minimum number of pins to interface with peripheral circuitry, yet retaining a high degree of independent control of each of the memories in a given chip. The present invention is a semiconductor video display memory including first and second memory arrays, each array having a plurality of memory elements arranged in rows and columns and associated with predetermined pixel locations in the display, the first and second memory arrays being identical row decode means for receiving a row address and selecting one of the rows of memory elements in both the first and second memory arrays first and second serial access means for storing data from the selected memory elements of the first and second memory arrays in a serial format, the first and second serial access means having a separate serial input and a separate serial output and being controlled from an external source to serially shift data therethrough transfer means for transferring data from the selected memory elements of the first and second arrays to the respective one of the first and second serial access means or from the respective serial access means to the selected memory elements of the first and second arrays, the semiconductor memory being characterized by configuring means 56 and 60 for configuring the first and second access means either to each circulate data from the serial output to serial input thereof or to cascade the first and second serial access means with the serial output of the first serial access means connected to the serial input of the second serial access means. In another embodiment of the present invention, the first access means is a first shift register and has the input and output thereof multiplexed to a dedicated IC pin and the second access means is a second shift register and has the serial input and output multiplexed to a second dedicated signal pin. An external signal is provided for determining whether the serial inputs or the serial outputs are interfaced with the external circuitry. The circulating shift registers allow the data to be shifted out and back to the input thereof. In yet another embodiment of the present invention, the cascaded shift registers and circulating shift registers are incorporated on the same semiconductor chip by utilizing mask programmable options wherein mask modifications are made prior to fabrication of the semiconductor device to select either the circulating shift register or the cascaded shift register arrangement. Another feature of the invention disclosed and claimed herein Each of the arrays has an equal number of memory elements arranged in rows and columns. A common row decoder and common column decoder are provided for receiving the row and column addresses. A separate input output buffer is associated with each of the arrays for transferring data to and from the associated array and interfacing with an external source. An inhibiting circuit is provided that is associated with each of the input output buffers for inhibiting data transfer to the associated array in response to receiving an inhibiting signal. Each of the arrays has a separate inhibiting signal associated therewith such that generation of the associated inhibiting signal inhibits transfer to the accessed memory element in the associated array. In another embodiment of this feature of the invention, the inhibiting signals are received on the input port to the buffers and multiplexed for storage in a latch. This allows the inhibiting signals to be present for a shift duration of time and stored until updated. In yet another embodiment of this feature, a separate terminal is provided for each of the inhibiting signals associated with each of arrays. The inhibiting signals are then allowed to be present for the duration of inhibition of data transfer. Still another feature of the invention A row decoder is provided for receiving and decoding a row address and selecting one of the rows of memory elements. A column decoder is provided for receiving and decoding a column address and selecting one of the columns of memory elements. The column and row decoders operate in conjunction to select one of the memory elements in the array in the random access mode. A serial shift register is provided having a plurality of shift bits equal in number to the columns of the array with transfer gates disposed therebetween. The transfer gates are operable to transfer data from all of the memory elements in the accessed row for storage in the shift bits of the shift register. A tap circuit is provided for selecting the shift bit from which data is to be output. The tap position is determined by an address input to the column decoder and decoded thereby. Data is then shifted out of the shift register from the tap point, the tap point being the output of any of the shift bits as determined by the tap address input to the column decoder. A control circuit controls whether the output signal from the column decoder decodes a column address or provides a tap decode signal for selecting the output of the shift register. In addition, still another feature of one embodiment A row address is received and decoded and the addressed row of memory elements is accessed in the array. A serial shift register having a plurality of shift bits in the shift register is associated with each column of the array. A transfer circuit is disposed between the shift register and the array to control the transfer of data therebetween. A clock circuit receives an external shift clock and generates an internal shift clock for shifting data in the shift register at the frequency of the external shift clock. A control circuit receives an external transfer control signal and controls the transfer of data in the transfer circuit. A shift inhibit circuit is provided for inhibiting shifting of the shift register by the internal shift clock for a predetermined duration of time after reception of the external transfer signal to ensure that the complete transfer of data has been effected. In another embodiment of this feature, an external row address strobe signal is provided to initiate access of data in the array. Access is maintained for the duration of time that the row address strobe signal is present. An inhibit circuit is provided for inhibiting transfer of data before full access is achieved. This allows the external transfer signal to occur before full access without disturbing prestored data in the shift register until a predetermined point in time. In yet another embodiment of this feature, circuitry is provided for extending the accessed time for a predetermined duration of time after reception of the external transfer signal. This time extension circuit operates independent of the row address strobe signal such that removal of the row address strobe signal prior to expiration of the predetermined duration of time maintains access to the data. For a more complete understanding of the present invention and the advantages thereof, reference is now made to the following description taken in conjunction with the accompanying Drawings in which Referring now to FIGURE 1, there is illustrated a semiconductor memory comprised of four memory arrays 10, 12, 14 and 16 referred to hereinafter as a By Four Memory Array. Each of the memory arrays 10 16 is comprised of a read write memory organized with both serial access and random access, both of which may use a cell array of the Dynamic Random Access type. All of the arrays 10 16 are included on one semiconductor chip which is usually mounted in a standard dual in line package. Memories of this type are generally described in U.S. Patent No. US A 4,081,701, issued to White, et al. and assigned to Texas Instruments Incorporated. Each of the arrays is generally split into two halves with an equal number of memory cells in each half to define distinct rows and columns of memory elements. A row of sense amplifiers, each associated with one column, is disposed between the two halves such that activation of one row provides an output on each of the sense amplifiers. Appropriate decoding circuits are then utilized to output all or select ones of the address data bits, as will be described hereinbelow. Each of the memory arrays 10 16 is arranged in a bit mapped configuration that is, the relative location of a bit of data stored in the memory corresponds to a physical location of a pixel on display. For example, the data stored in the first row and first column of one of the bit mapped arrays could correspond to the first pixel in the first scan line on the video display. If only one array were utilized, the adjacent pixel would correspond to the data stored in the first row and second column of the array. However, if multiple arrays are utilized, adjacent columns in a given array correspond to every nth pixel in the display where n is equal to the number of arrays in parallel. This type of memory is fully described in U.S. Patent Application Serial No. 567,040, filed December 30, 1983, corresponding to Patent No. US A 4 639 890, and assigned to Texas Instruments Incorporated, Inside Graphic Systems, From Top To Bottom , Electronic Design, Volume 31, No. 15 1983 , by Novak and Pinkham, Dedicated Processor Shrinks Graphic Systems To Three Chips , Electronic Design, Volume 31, No. 16 1983 , by Williamson and Rickert and Video Ram Excells At Fast Graphics , Electronic Design, Volume 31, No. 17 1983 , by Pinkham, Novak Guttag. The memory arrays 10 16 are all contained on a single semiconductor chip denoted by a dotted line. An address A0 A7 is received in an address buffer 18, the output of which is input to a row address latch 20 and a column address latch 22. The row address latch 20 is controlled by the row address strobe signal Each of the memory arrays 10 16 has a data input output I O circuit 32 associated therewith which is comprised of I O data lines. The I O data lines associated with the array 10 are denoted by I O₀ , the I O lines associated with the array 12 are denoted by I O₁ , the I O lines associated with the array 14 are denoted by I O₂ and the I O lines associated with the array 16 are denoted by I O₃. In addition, a serial shift register 34 is associated with the array 10, a serial shift register 36 is associated with the array 12, a serial shift register 38 is associated with the array 14 and a serial shift register 40 is associated with the array 16. Each of the shift registers 34 40 has associated therewith tap latches 42, 44, 46 and 48, respectively. The tap latches 42 48 are operable to select the shift bit of the associated shift registers 34 40, respectively for output therefrom. The tap latches 42 48 are interfaced with a tap latch bus 50 which is connected to the output of a tap latch decode circuit 52. The tap latch decode circuit 52 receives the latched column address from the address bus 26 for decoding thereof. In the preferred embodiment, the tap latch decode circuit 52 and the column decoder 30 are shared functions such that only one decode circuit is required. Control circuitry is provided for determining whether the decoded output is placed onto the tap latch bus 50 or the column decode bus 26, as will be described hereinbelow. Each of the shift registers 34 40 is comprised of a plurality of serially arranged shift bits, each shift bit therein associated with a separate column in the associated array. A transfer gate 54 is provided for interfacing between the individual columns of each of the arrays 10 16 and the associated shift registers 34 40. This transfer of data can either be from the output of each of the sense amps in the respective memory arrays for loading into the shift bits of the respective shift registers or it can allow transfer of data from the shift register to the associated array. The transfer gates 54 allow for transfer of all of the data in the addressed row to the shift register for serial output therefrom, as will be described hereinbelow. The operation of the transfer gates and the serial shift register is described in detail in U.S. Patent US A 4,330,852. The output of the tap latch 42 comprises the serial output of the shift register 34, and this output is input to one input of a Single Pole Double Throw switch 56, which allows for the output of tap latch 42 to switch between the serial input of the shift register 34 and the serial input of the shift register 36. In a similar manner, the output of the tap latch 46, which is the selected output of the shift register 38, is also input to a Single Pole Double Throw switch 58, which selects between the serial input of the shift register 38 and the serial input of the shift register 40 associated with the array 16. The tap latch 44, which selects the output of the shift register 36, is fed back around to the serial input of the shift register 36 through a Single Pole Single Throw switch 60, and the output of the tap latch 48 is also fed back to the serial input of the shift register 40 through a Single Pole Single Throw switch 62. Each of the switches 56 62 is a metal mask programmable option which is selected during fabrication of the semiconductor memory. Although illustrated as switches, they are in actuality a series of lines which are connected or disconnected on the mask prior to fabrication of the device. The switches 56 62 allow for two modes of operation. In the first mode, the switches 56 and 58 are connected such that the output of the tap latch 42 is connected back to the serial input of the associated shift register 34 and the output of the tap latch 46 is connected back to the serial input of the associated shift register 38. In a similar manner, the switches 60 and 62 are closed such that the outputs of the tap latches 44 and 48 are connected back to the serial inputs of the respective shift registers 36 and 40. In this manner, each of the shift registers 34 38 is configured as a circulating shift register. In the second mode of operation, the switch 56 is configured to connect the tapped output of the shift register 34 to the serial input of the shift register 36 and the switch 58 is configured to connect the tapped output of the shift register 38 to the serial input of the shift register 40. The switches 60 and 62 are configured in the open position such that circulation of data in the shift registers 36 and 40 is inhibited. This second mode of operation essentially cascades shift registers 34 and 36 and shift registers 38 and 40. To interface with the shift registers in two modes, a signal pin labeled S₁ is connected to the output of the tap latch 44, a signal pin S₀ is interfaced with the serial input of the shift register 34, a signal pin S₂ is interfaced with the serial input of the shift register 38 and a signal pin labeled S₃ is interfaced with the output of the tap latch 48. In the first mode of operation, the pin S₁ is multiplexed with both the serial input and output of shift register 36, pin S₀ is multiplexed with the serial input and output of shift register 34, pin S₂ is multiplexed with the serial input and output of shift register 38 and pin S₃ is multiplexed with the serial input and output of shift register 40. Buffers are provided such that data can be input or output to the associated shift registers on pins S₀ S₃ in response to the serial out enable signal In the second mode of operation, the pin S₁ is connected to the output of tap latch 44 and the pin S₀ is connected to the input of the shift register 34, the shift registers 34 and 36 being cascaded. Pin S₀ is connected to the input of shift register 38 and pin S₃ is connected to the output of tap latch 48, shift registers 38 and 40 being cascaded. In this mode, data can be serially input to shift register 34 and extracted from the tapped output of shift register 36. In a similar manner, data can be serially input to shift register 38 and extracted from the tapped output of shift register 40. The switches 56 62 provide the option of selectively accessing each of the shift registers associated with the memory arrays 10 16 on a single multiplexed input output or, alternatively, cascading the associated shift registers of two of the arrays with a dedicated input and a dedicated output for each cascaded pair. In this manner, only four pins on the integrated circuit package are required. Each of these configurations and the applications therefor will be described in more detail hereinbelow. Each of the memory arrays 10 16, as described hereinabove, shares a common row decoder and a common column decoder. A row address and the associated To selectively alter data in any of the arrays 10 16 or any combination thereof, an enable circuit 64 is provided for interfacing between and I O buffer 66 and the I O lines I O₀ I O₃. The enable circuit 64 is controlled by outputs from an arbiter 68 which determines whether the Write Mask feature or the Separate In the Write Mask mode, the four data pins D₀ D₃ are multiplexed such that enable signals W₀, W₁, W₂ and W₃ can be multiplexed therewith. The signals W₀ W₃ determine which of the memory arrays 10 16 are to have the associated I O ports enabled. The disadvantage to the Write Mask feature, as will be described in more detail hereinbelow, is that only one set of values for the signals W₀ W₃ can be latched for each When the metal mask is altered to select the Separate A clock and control generator 69 is also provided on the chip to generate the various clock signals and control signals such as that required to activate the transfer gate and the shift registers 34 40. Two of the signals input to the clock and control generator 69 are the signal for the shift register clock SCLK and the signal for the transfer and output enable signals Referring now to FIGURE 2, there is illustrated a timing diagram for the Write cycle for the memory of FIGURE 1 illustrating the Write Mask feature. In the conventional RAM, the row address is latched in the row address latch 20 as Referring now to FIGURE 3, there is illustrated an array configured of four memories 70, 72, 74 and 76. Each of the memories 70 76 is similar to the memory of FIGURE 1, in that four bit memory arrays are contained therein. The memories 70 76 are operated in the second mode of operation with cascaded shift registers. Each pair of cascaded shift registers therefore has a dedicated pin for the serial input to the cascaded pair and a dedicated pin for the serial output to the cascaded pair, requiring four pins on the integrated circuit package to interface with the cascaded pairs. For illustrative purposes, the two cascaded pairs in the memory 70 are cascaded with the two cascaded pairs in the memory 72. The two cascaded pairs in the memory 74 are cascaded with each other and the two cascaded pairs in the memory 76 are cascaded with each other. Regardless of the configuration, the electrical configuration is the same, with only the physical layout of the interconnects changing. A data update circuit 78 is provided that receives a signal from a microprocessor not shown on a bus 80 to generate sixteen separate signals to control either the Separate Each of the pixel mapped arrays in the memories 70 76 is labeled with a letter indicating its relative position in the array. One cascaded pair in memory 70 is labeled D and H . This cascaded pair is cascaded with arrays L and P in the memory 72. The other array pair in memory 70 is labeled C and G, which is cascaded with the other array pair in memory 72 labeled K and O . The cascaded arrays in the memory 74 are labeled B , F , J and N and the cascaded arrays in memory 76 are labeled A , E , I and M . Therefore, the array of FIGURE 3 is configured such that arrays A, B, C and D are arranged in parallel, with the serial outputs thereof connected to four parallel inputs of a four bit serial shift register 82, the serial output of which is processed for input to a display. The remaining cascaded arrays E H, I L and M P are cascaded in a parallel configuration, such that all of the elements in the cascaded arrays A D are output to the four bit shift register 82, followed by all of the shift register data from the arrays E H, etc. This is referred to as symmetrical pixel mapping. Referring now to FIGURE 4, a portion of the video display is illustrated utilizing the symmetrical pixel array of FIGURE 3. In accessing one row of data in the symmetrical array, a row address is first supplied and then a column address. The data on the bit lines of each column is then transferred with the transfer gate 54 to the respective shift registers of each of the arrays A P. Once the data is parallel loaded into the respective shift register, all of the shift registers are clocked by a common shift clock to synchronously shift the data to the four bit shift register 82. For a 256 bit wide array and a corresponding 256 bit wide shift register, each of the positions is labeled 00 through 255 corresponding to the particular column. The first shift bit output of each of the arrays A through P corresponds to the column address 00. The first data loaded into the four bit shift register 82 is the data initially stored in column 00 of arrays A D. After the data is loaded into the four bit shift register 82, it is shifted out at a data rate four times that of the shift clock. Therefore, the first piece of data output from the four bit shift register 82 is the data in column 00, row 00 of array A followed by the data in column 00, row 00 of array B. After data corresponding to column 00 of arrays A, B, C and D is output from the four bit shift register 82 to form the first scan line, the data corresponding to row 00, column 01 is then loaded into shift register 82 to form the second scan line. This continues until all of the data in the shift registers associated with registers A D is output, which requires 256 shift clocks and 1024 shifts of the four bit shift register 82. In this example, the display is 256 blocks long which, for the first scan line, is comprised of 1,024 pixels. For the next scan line, the data from the shift registers initially associated with the arrays E H has been serially loaded into the shift registers associated with the arrays A D. This data is then serially loaded into the four bit shift register 82. The next scan line associated with all of the data in the shift registers associated with arrays I L and the fourth scan line is comprised of the data in the shift registers associated with the arrays M P. This forms 256 pixel arrays each having the pixels therein labeled A through P. After all of the data associated with row address 00 is output from the shift registers, row 01 is accessed and the data transferred to the associated shift registers and scan lines five through eight are displayed to form the second row of pixel arrays. By utilizing the symmetrical array of FIGURE 3, it is possible to write over sixteen adjacent pixels in any one of the pixel arrays in one memory access time. If only one pixel mapped memory array were utilized, it would require sixteen memory accesses to change the data of the sixteen pixels. In the symmetrical pixel array, it is only necessary to make one random access of the memory arrays A P, with the data update circuit 78 activated to select the array to be written over at that row and column address and in the desired pattern. For example, if a pattern illustrated by the reference numeral 84 in FIGURE 4 were to be drawn on the display, a conventional system would access each row defining the pattern 84 and change the column address to modify the appropriate pixel memory locations. This would require operation in the page mode for the memory. The row address would then be changed and this step repeated. The pattern 84 is comprised of the pixels H, L, and P in the pixel array in row 00, column 00, pixels E, F, J and N in the pixel array in column 01, row 00, the pixels D, H and L in the pixel array in column 00, row 01 and the pixels B, F, I and J in the pixel array in column 01, row 01. A conventional system would require six row accesses with each row access requiring two column accesses to write over all of the pixel data to form the pattern 84. However, in the symmetrical pixel mapping array of FIGURE 3, only four accesses are required to form the pattern 84. The system would first access memory cells in row 00, column 00 of all of the memory arrays A P and enable only memory arrays H, L, and P for writing to. With the Write Mask option selected for the memory 70 76 in FIGURE 3, a new row access would be required prior to changing the enabled pixel arrays for row 00, column 01. However, if the Separate By utilizing cascaded shift registers internal to the semiconductor chip having four pixel mapped arrays contained therein, only four pins are required to provide the 4x4 array. This allows for any configuration requiring a symmetrical array that is two pixels wide or any multiple thereof. Therefore, a 4x4 symmetrical pixel array can be utilized, as illustrated in FIGURE 3, or even a 16x16 pixel array can be utilized. Referring now to FIGURE 5, there is illustrated a schematic block diagram of a 256 bit shift register 86 with an associated 256 bit tap latch 88 and an associated 256 element transfer gate 90. The shift register 86 is similar to the shift registers 34 40, the tap latch 88 is similar to the tap latches 42 48 and the transfer gate 90 is similar to the transfer gate 54 in FIGURE 1. The transfer gate receives the bit lines B L₀₀ B L₂₅₅ on the input and has the outputs thereof connected to the individual shift bits of the shift register 86 labeled 00 through 255, with the serial input being input to shift bit 255 and the serial output being output by shift bit 00. The tap latch 88 is operable to tap the serial output at any one of the shift bits 00 through 255. The shift output from shift bit 00 is input to a tristate buffer 92, which has the output thereof connected to a Single Pole Single Throw switch 94. The switch 94 is similar to the switches 60 and 62. As described above, the switch 94 may not be utilized if the shift register is configured similar to shift registers 34 and 38 with the Single Pole Double Throw switches 56 and 58. The output of the switch 94 is connected to the serial input of shift bit 255. The output of the tap latch is input to a tristate buffer 96, the output of which is connected to one of the pins S₁ S₃ which are referred to as S In the preferred embodiment, it is important to note that the serial output is always fed back from shift bit 00 to shift bit 255 and not from the output of the tap latch 88. However, it could be fed back from the tap point. With feedback from shift bit 00, the tap latch can be activated to select the output from any one of the shift bits in the shift register 86 without affecting the order in which the data circulates. For example, shift bit 64 could be selected as the output shift bit such that the first bit appearing on the output would be the data initially stored in shift bit 64, followed by the data Initially stored in the remaining shift bits 65 255. However, as the shift clocks continue to shift data, the data stored in shift bit 255 is followed with the data initially stored in shift bit 00. In this manner, the initial order of the data stored in the shift register 86 can be maintained independent of the tap position. A counter not shown counts the number of shift clocks to provide a count output. The external microprocessor which controls the memory provides a reset for the counter on transfer of data to the shift register 86 and then monitors the count. The microprocessor can then transfer data back to the memory at a predetermined count delayed by a predetermined number of shifts. For example, if it is desirable to shift all of the data in a given row of memory by one pixel, it would only be necessary to count 255 counts of the shift clock from the initial position and then transfer the data to the bit lines. This would effectively shift the data by one. Referring now to FIGURES 6a and 6b, a select line of the display is represented for three separate frames of the display wherein a frame is defined as the time required to scan all of the lines on the display. The frames are referred to as FRAME1, FRAME2 and FRAME3 and the line that is illustrated is referred to as line N. In the illustrated example, there are 256 pixels for each scan line of the display and a 256 bit wide memory associated shift register is utilized. After transfer of data to the shift register, the timing is such that 256 shifts are made to output all of data contained in the shift register onto the display for a given line. In FRAME1, the first pixel corresponds to shift bit 00 which also corresponds to the data stored in column 00. The last bit of data shifted out at the end of the scan line corresponds to shift bit 255, which also corresponds to column 255. In order to shift the data by one, the counter not shown counts the number of shift clock cycles and performs a transfer from shift register to memory at the row address corresponding to that line at a predetermined shift count. The example illustrated in FIGURE 6a requires the transfer of data from the shift register to memory to occur after 255 shift clocks. At this count, the data originally in shift bit 00 will now be in shift bit 01. A transfer at a count of 255 will result in the data being shifted to the right by one pixel position corresponding to data being shifted to the next higher column address. Therefore, on the next frame, transfer of data from memory to the shift register results in this shifted data being output. If a transfer from shift register to memory occurs for every count of 255, the data will appear to shift to the right one pixel for every scan. Therefore, scan three for the same line will have the pixel shifted two pixels to the right with respect to FRAME1. To shift one position to the left, the transfer of data from shift register to memory occurs after a shift count of one. This will result in the data originally in shift bit 00 being in shift bit 255 and the data initially in shift bit 01 being in shift bit 00, thus resulting in a shift to the left of one bit for each scan of the display. This is illustrated in FIGURE 6b. Referring now to FIGURE 7a, there is illustrated three sequential frames of line N, similar to the frames of FIGURES 6a and 6b. However, in this example, the number of pixels on each line of the display is a multiple of 192 whereas the shift register and memory are 256 bits wide. The tap on the tap latch 88 is set to extract bits from shift bit 64 such that the first bit in the scan line will be data in shift bit 64 and the last pixel will correspond to data in shift bit 255. In order to shift the data by one to the right, the only change that is necessary is to change the tap from shift bit 64 to shift bit 63. This is evidenced in FRAME2 wherein the first pixel corresponds to data in shift bit 63 and the last bit of data corresponds to data in shift bit 254. On the next frame, indicated by FRAME3, the tap is again incremented down such that it is positioned at shift bit 62. By shifting the tap, the display can be panned. However, the display can only be panned until the tap is positioned at shift bit 00 wherein the display will correspond to data between shift bit 00 and shift bit 191. In order to display a constant changing background with a display having less pixels than that provided in the serial shift registers 86, the circulating shift register configuration can be utilized in conjunction with the tap latch 88. This is illustrated in FIGURE 7b wherein the tap is set at shift bit 64 for the first frame, FRAME1, and then incremented to shift bit 65 and shift bit 66 in the next two successive frames, respectively. Since the shift register is a circulating shift register, 192 shifts from the shift bit 65 will cause the data stored in shift bit 00 to be output therefrom. In a similar manner, in FRAME3 tapping of the shift register 86 at shift bit 66 results in the data stored in shift bit 00 and shift bit 01 corresponding to the last two pixels in the line after shifting. Referring now to FIGURE 8, there is illustrated a schematic block diagram of a single shift bit in the shift register 86 of FIGURE 5. The serial input is referred to as IN and the serial output is referred as OUT . The serial input is connected to the gates of a P channel FET 104 and an N channel FET 106. The transistor 106 has the source thereof connected to V In operation, data is input on the capacitor 124 at the output of the shift bit which also connects it to the gates of the transistors 104 and 106. This data clocked through to node 112 when SR1 is low and SR2 is high. If the data is a logic low level, transistor 104 conducts and if the data is a logic high level, transistor 106 conducts. When SR1 returns to a high level and SR2 returns to a low level, the data is stored on the capacitor 122. To transfer data from node 112 to the serial output, SR1 is applied to the gate of transistor 118 and SR2 is supplied to the gate of transistor 116. Therefore, data is transferred when SR2 is low corresponding to SR1 being high. This is the opposite configuration than that with respect to transfer of data to node 112. Referring now to FIGURE 9, there is illustrated three shift bits 126, 128 and 130 connected in series. For each of the shift bits, transistors 104 and 106 are represented by an inverting amplifier symbol 132 and the transistors 114 and 120 are represented by an inverting amplifier symbol 134. In a transfer cycle, the bit line is connected to the serial output of each of the shift bits with SR1 being low and SR2 being high. This effectively connects the data on the bit line to the input of the amplifier 134 for the next successive shift bit. The bit line not shown is then disconnected, with the signal being stored on the capacitor 124. When the shift clock changes states, the signal on the output of the respective shift bit is transferred to the output of the next shift bit. Referring now to FIGURE 10, there is illustrated a schematic diagram of the shift bits 255, 254 and 253 in a 256 bit shift register, with the serial input being input to the shift bit 255. The outputs of each of the shift bits are input to NAND gates 133, the other input of which is connected to a tap latch signal corresponding to the output of the tap latch decode circuit 52. The output of each of the NAND gates 133 is connected to the drain of a pass transistor 135, the source of which is connected to a line 136. The gate of the each of the transistors 135 associated with each of the shift bits is connected to the tap latch signal. For example, the tap latch signal associated with the shift bit 255 is TP255, the tap latch signal associated with the shift bit 254 is TP254 and the tap latch signal associated with the shift bit 253 is TP253. The NAND gates 133 are each comprised of an N channel transistor 138 having the source thereof connected to V The latch circuit for generating the latch signals TP255 TP00 is comprised of cross coupled inverters 144 and 146, each having the output connected to the input of the other for storing a logic state thereon. The input of the inverter 144 and output of the inverter 146 are connected to a node 148. The node 148 is connected to the drains of an N channel transistor 150 and a P channel transistor 152, the sources of which are connected to a decode line Y255 corresponding to the column address 255. The node 148 is connected to the gate of the pass transistor 134 through a series resistor 154. The gate of the transistor 150 is connected to a latch signal LCH and the gate of the transistor 152 is connected to the inverted latch signal The shift bit 254 has an associated cross coupled inverter pair 156 and 158 and the shift bit 253 has an associated cross coupled inverter pair 160 and 162. The decode signal Y254 is input to a parallel pair of N and P channel transistors 164 and 166 and the decode signal Y253 is input to the cross coupled inverter pair 160 and 162 through a pair of N and P channel transistors 168 and 170. Series resistors 172 and 174 are provided for the shift bits 254 and 253, respectively. In an important aspect of the present invention, the tap point is determined by an address which is decoded by the column address decoder. Therefore, only one decoder is required to both address a column and also address the particular tap point that constitutes the serial output of the serial access shift register. This significantly reduces the amount of circuitry required to provide the decode function for the tap of the shift register. Prior systems have utilized a separate decoder to determine which of the taps is to be selected. In addition, each shift bit in the register can be selected, thus providing more versatility for various applications. Referring now to FIGURE 11, there is illustrated a schematic block diagram of the chip innerconnections and the approximate physical layout of the memory array 10 and associated transfer gate 54, shift register 34, tap latch 42 and column decoder 30. For illustrative purposes, only column 00 and column 01 are illustrated with their associated output circuits. Column 00 outputs an inverted and noninverted bit line for the column address 00 with B L 00 connected to the drain of an N channel transistor 176 and The transfer gate 54 is comprised of a pass transistor 184 having the drain thereof connected to the noninverted bit lines and the source thereof connected to the input of the respective shift bit. The gates of all the transistors 184 in the transfer gate circuit 54 are connected to the transfer control signal SCT. The tap latch 42 provides a latch for each shift bit and it is controlled by the column decode line associated therewith. For example, column decode line 00 is connected to the control input of tap latch TL00. The output of tap latch TL00 is input to the gate of a pass transistor 186, the drain of which is connected to the output of shift bit 00 and the source of which is connected to the SOUT line. A similar pass transistor 188 is connected between the output of shift bit 01 and the SOUT terminal, with the gate thereof connected to tap latch TL01. Referring now to FIGURE 12, there is illustrated the preferred embodiment of the physical layout of the memory of FIGURE 1, with each of the memory arrays 10 16 having 256 rows and each of the associated shift registers 34 40 having 256 shift bits. Like numerals refer to like parts in the various Figures. The memory arrays 10 and 12 are combined into arrays 190 and 192. The array 190 contains column 00 through column 127 and array 192 contains column 128 through column 255. Each of the arrays 190 196 contain one half of columns of memory cells corresponding to two of the I O lines I O₀ I O₃. The columns are intertwined such that columns having the same address are adjacent to each other. For example, column 00 of array 10 is the first physical column in array 190 and column 00 of array 12 is the second physical column in array 190. The I O line is indicated by the subscript 0 for array 10 and 1 for array 12 and each is associated with the appropriate column address. An array 194 and an array 196 are provided on the other side of the semiconductor chip and comprise the columns of elements in the memory arrays 14 and 16, with the array 194 containing column 0 through column 127 and array 196 containing column 128 through column 255. Although not shown, the arrays 190 and 192 and arrays 194 and 196 are separated by the row decoder. The shift registers 34 and 36 associated with the arrays 10 and 12 are disposed adjacent the arrays 190 and 192, with the shift bits associated with the respective columns and connected thereto. The transfer gate circuits 54 are not illustrated for simplicity purposes. The shift registers 38 and 40 are disposed adjacent the arrays 194 and 196 with the shift bits therein connected to the outputs of the respective columns. The shift registers 34 40 are divided into two halves, one half associated with the arrays 190 and 194 for shift bits 00 through 127 and the other half associated with arrays 192 and 196 for shift bits 128 through 255. The tap latches 42 and 44 are combined into one tap latch 198 that is disposed between the column decoder 30 and the shift registers 34 and 36. The tap latches 46 and 48 are combined into one tap latch 200 disposed between the column decoder 30 and the shift registers 38 and 40. The random access I O circuit and transfer gates are disposed between the shift registers and the respective arrays 190 196, as illustrated in FIGURE 11. Referring now to FIGURE 13, there is illustrated a timing diagram for transferring data from the memory to the associated serial shift register. To effect this transfer, it is necessary for the Referring now to FIGURE 14, there is illustrated a timing diagram for transferring data from the shift register to storage in memory. This data can either be input on the serial input, shifted in and then transferred to memory or it can be shifted from one row in the memory to the shift register and then transferred back into memory in a different row. To initiate a transfer between the shift register and memory, Referring now to FIGURE 15, there is illustrated a schematic block diagram of the enable circuit 64, I O buffer 66 and arbiter 68 of FIGURE 1 for distinguishing between the Separate The W₀ signal is input to an arbitration circuit 224 to both determine which of the Write Mask or Separate The The The high output of the NAND gate 236 is present whenever any of the The The The arbitration circuit 224 is comprised of a Single Pole Double Throw switch 246 which receives the W₀ and W₀ signals with the output thereof connected to one input of a three input AND gate 248. The switch 246 is a mask selectable option similar to the switch 216, the switches in the bank 226 and the switches 230 234 are programmed during fabrication. The switch 246 is operable to select between the W₀ and W₀ signals for input to the AND gate 248. When the Write Mask feature is selected, the W₀ signal is selected by the switch 246 and when the separate In operation, the arbitration circuit 224 provides an output from the OR gate 250 in response to one of the The output of the R gate 250 of the arbitration circuit is input to a tristate buffer 252 which is part of the enable circuit 64 and is connected to the I O buffer 208 associated with the D₀ line. The tristate buffer 252 is utilized only for incoming data with a buffer 254 providing for outgoing data. Only the incoming data is buffered with tristate buffer 252 which is controlled by the arbitration circuit 224. In a similar manner, arbitration circuits 256, 258 and 260 are associated with tristate buffers 262, 264 and 266 for selectively enabling incoming data from the buffers 210, 212 and 214, respectively. The arbitration circuits 256 260 are similar to the arbitration circuit 224 and they are controlled by the W₁ W₃ signals, the W₁ W₃ signals or the EN signal. The EN signal is present when the Write Mask feature is available but not enabled in which case all four I O buffers 208 214 are enabled. Each of the arbitration circuits 256 260 has a mask programmable switch internal thereto similar to the switch 246 in arbitration circuit 224. Referring now to FIGURE 16, there is illustrated a timing diagram for the Separate By utilizing the Separate When data is transferred from memory to the serial shift register, it is important that all of the data in the shift register first be output to the display or storage elsewhere prior to reloading the shift register. Normally, this presents no problem since the shift register is mapped to the number of pixels in a given scan line. For example, a 256 bit shift register would map directly onto a display having a line width 256Xn pixels across where n is some integer. The transfer from memory to shift register could then occur during the retrace time, thus providing sufficient time to ensure that all data is out of the shift register and to load the shift register with new data. Heretofore, the shift clock was inhibited during the retrace time and during transfer of data from the memory to the shift register and then allowed to initiate shifting upon beginning of the next scan line. However, some displays have a pixel length for each scan line that is not a multiple of the width of the shift register. For example, a pixel length of 960 would require a 960 bit wide memory. If a symmetrical array of four serial access memorys were utiltized, each having a 256 bit wide shift register associated therewith, only 240 of the shift bits in each of the shift registers would be required for a scan line. The remaining sixteen bits in each of the shift registers would either have the data therein discarded or output as the first sixty four pixels on the next scan line. However, this would require transfer of data from the memory to the associated shift register during the middle of a scan line. A conventional scan rate is approximately 12 ns per pixel. This would require the shift registers to shift data through at a 48 ns rate. The data must therefore be loaded within 48 ns. The time required for data to be transferred to the shift bits from the bits lines is approximately 5ns 10ns for a conventional memory. If a sufficient time is not allowed for the data to be transferred from the bit lines to the inputs of the respective shift bits, the data may be invalid. Therefore, the timing relationship between the initiation of the transfer cycle and the next data shift is important to effect a proper transfer of data during one shifting cycle. The clock and control generator 69 in the memory of FIGURE 1 provides the circuitry for effecting a proper transfer of data without requiring the user to place exacting requirements on his timing relationship for the Referring now to FIGURE 17, there is illustrated a schematic diagram of the circuitry for the midline load feature. The The The SRW signal is input to one input of an NAND gate 300 and one input of a NAND gate 302. The other inputs of the NAND gates 300 and 302 are connected to the TRL signal. The In operation, the presence of the SRW low signal indicates a Read Transfer and requires the Word Line to be high before the transfer signal occurs. The output of NAND gate 300 will be high, thus enabling AND gates 308 and 310. The output of NOR gate 304 will be low, disabling AND gates 312 and 314. AND gates 312 and 314 control the buffers 321 and 320 to select the XFR signal as a function of the state of AX₀ and Whenever the transfer signal occurs, it is necessary to maintain the SCT signal active for a predetermined period of time in order to allow sufficient time for the data to be transferred to or from the inputs of the respective shift bits. To provide for late occurrence relative to Referring now to FIGURE 18, there is illustrated a timing diagram for loading of data from the memory to the shift register. When the rising edge of When the When the rising edge of the In summary, there has been provided a semiconductor memory which utilizes four pixel mapped memories having the bits therein mapped to locations directly corresponding to pixels on a display. Each of the memory arrays has a serial shift register associated therewith and transfer gates for transfer of data therebetween. The serial shift register can either be connected in a circulating fashion with either serial in access or serial out access to each of the shift registers requiring only one pin per shift register. Alternately, the shift registers can be cascaded such that there are two pairs of cascaded shift register arrays each pair with one serial input and one serial output requiring only one pin per array. Each of the shift registers is operable to be tapped at any output location therein. The location is determined from a decoded address which is received from the column decode line, thus requiring no additional decoding circuit to determine the tap point. Circuitry is provided to allow separate writing to locations in the four arrays without requiring separate decoding circuits. All four arrays share the same row and column decoders. The circuitry uses either a Write Mask format or separate column address strobes. Either feature can be utilized by selecting a metal mask option for the feature prior to fabrication of the device. Circuitry is also provided for allowing transfer of data from memory to shift register during the last cycle of the shift clock such that new data can immediately follow the old data without requiring the shifting operation to be temporarily terminated.