# MONOLITHIC SERIES FEEDBACK LOW NOISE FET AMPLIFIERS

## Claims
Rauscharmer Verstärker mit einer monolithischen Struktur, enthaltend einen Feldeffekttransistor 12 mit einem Drain , Source und Gate Anschluß und einem induktiven Serienrückkopplungsmittel 32, 34 , das wirkungsmäßig zwischen den Source Anschluß des Feldeffekttransistors 12 und Masse angeschlossen ist, wobei das induktive Serienrückkopplungsmittel 32, 34 eine solche Induktivität hat, daß die optimale Impedanz Z

## Description
This invention relates to amplifiers and more particularly to a low noise amplifier for microwave receivers. In the past, front ends for conventional radar, phased array radar, uplink and downlink stages of satellite communication receivers, television receivers, intrusion alarm systems, microwave point to point relay systems, and mobile radio receivers have required both low noise signal amplification and low input voltage standing wave ratios. To meet these requirements, low noise amplifiers having a balanced configuration have been used. Both hybrid and monolithic circuits have been used to implement the balanced configuration. A schematic circuit for a balanced amplifier stage is shown in the prior art Fig. 1 each stage consists of two Field Effect Transistors FETs , two input circuits, two output circuits and two 3 dB couplers. An alternative approach of meeting the front end specifications is to use an isolator with a single ended, noise matched monolithic low noise amplifier. As the isolator cannot be implemented on the monolithic substrate and as the invention of this application utilizes the monolithic form, the latter isolator approach will not be discussed in detail. The disadvantages of balanced low noise amplifiers are their high cost and large size owing to the duplication of circuit elements and the use of 3 dB couplers. The 3 dB couplers also degrade RF performance due to the loss associated with the couplers 0.3 dB at X band . In DIGEST OF TECHNICAL PAPERS, FOURTH EUROPEAN MICROWAVE CONFERENCE, September 1974, pages 385 389 J. ENGBERG Simultaneous input power match and noise optimization using feedback , a low noise amplifier is described which is optimized for minimum noise conditions. The theory described in this document has been experimentally verified at UHF frequencies only, so that possible problems existing at considerably higher frequencies still exist. Further, the amplifier according to the before mentioned document is not described as a monolithic amplifier and makes use of field effect transistors rather than bipolar transistors. The problem to be solved by the invention is to provide a low noise amplifier capable of being reproduced consistently and reliably, which has decreased device noise figure with constant noise measure, and decreased equivalent noise resistance to reduce the sensitivity of the device noise match. According to the invention the low noise amplifier comprising a monolithic structure including a field effect transistor having a drain, source and gate terminal, and an inductive series feedback means operatively connected between the source of the field effect transistor and ground, the inductive series feedback means having an inductance such that the optimum impedance Z The low noise amplifier according to the invention is of reduced cost and size and has improved RF performance due to the elimination of 3 dB couplers or an isolator. One way of carrying out the invention is described in detail below with reference to the drawings in which The design of a monolithic inductive series feedback low noise amplifier requires measuring FET data, mapping the effect of inductive series feedback on S₁₁ and Z This data is loaded into a computer program sold under the trademark SUPER COMPACT by Compact Software Incorporated where the effect of inductive series feedback on S₁₁ and Z With respect to the effect of inductive series feedback on noise figure, the feedback element is lossless and adds no noise to the circuit. For a detailed discussion of feedback and its effect on noise figure NF see J. Engberg, SIMULTANEOUS INPUT POWER MATCH AND NOISE OPTIMIZATION USING FEEDBACK, Digest of Technical Papers, Fourth European Microwave Conference, pp. 385 389, Sept. 1974. Thus the minimum noise measure, M Referring now to Figure 2, a series feedback inductor in series with field effect transistor FET 10 includes a field effect transistor FET 12 having a gate 14 connected to a gate pad 16 through gate feeds 18, 20 and 22 and air bridges 24 and 26. A drain 28 is connected to an RF output terminal. A source 30 completes the FET. Series feedback elements 32 and 34, which are transmission lines, connect the source 30 to ground through vias 36 and 38, respectively. The width and length of the transmission lines forming the series feedback elements 32 and 34 are determined using SUPER COMPACT. Using a III V compound such as for example GaAs, a 0.2nH inductor is realized on a 150 µm thick GaAs substrate as a 25 µm wide transmission line with a length of 270 µm. As series feedback elements 32 and 34 are in parallel, their actual length is doubled to 540 µm to present an equivalent 0.2nH inductance between the source and ground. In a single stage low noise amplifier the simultaneous noise and gain match is achieved at the expense of output VSWR. For a specific amount of feedback, an output load impedance can be determined which yields S₁₁ equal to Z A three stage monolithic low noise amplifier design is shown in Figure 4. The low noise amplifier is fabricated on a semi insulating material substrate such as, for example, a 150 µm thick GaAs substrate or an AlGaAs substrate. The low noise amplifier includes three stages 40, 42 and 44 with interstages 46 and 48 interconnecting stages 40 42 and 42 44, respectively. In the first stage 40, input matching inductances are provided by transmission lines 50 and 52 connected in shunt and series to the gate of FET 12. A series feedback inductance is provided by transmission line 54 connected to the source of FET 12. As the structure of the series feedback inductance is that of Figure 2, i.e., two parallel transmission lines 32 and 34, the length of transmission lines 32 and 34 are 540 µm in length to provide the 270 µm equivalent length shown in the schematic and denoted by transmission line 54. The drain of FET 12 Fig. 4 is connected to the first interstage 46 which includes interstage matching inductances provided by transmission lines 56, 58, 60 and 62. The second stage includes a FET 12 having its gate connected to the output of interstage 46, its source connected to a series feedback inductance provided by transmission line 54 , and its drain connected to the input of the second interstage 48. It will be appreciated by those skilled in the art that the transmission line 54 can be omitted without detracting from the invention it is included to provide among other things increased device stability. The second interstage 48 employs a similar circuit topology to the first interstage 46 structure described above and therefore need not be repeated in the description. The third stage 44 includes a FET 12 having its gate connected to the output of the second interstage 48, its source connected to series connected feedback inductance provided by transmission line 54 and its drain connected to output matching inductance provided by transmission lines 64 and 66. This third stage provides additional gain and also gain flatness. It will be noted in Figure 4 that the FETs have gate widths of 300 µm, the lengths of the transmission lines are in microns, are 25 µm wide and have a characteristic impedance of 83 Ohms. Each transmission line is less than a quarter wavelength and the values of the capacitors are as stated. The low noise amplifier of Figure 4 has been fabricated and tested. The measured results were