# Method of treatment of viral diseases in plants utilizing ribavirin.

## Abstract
The compound 1 β D ribofuranosyl 1,2,4 triazole 3 carboxamide and the 2,3,5 triacetyl or 5 butyryl derivatives thereof are utilized alone or in combination with other antiviral or penetrating agents in the treatment or prevention of viral or viroid induced diseases in plants. Specific viruses against which use of the invention is efficacious include potexviruses, potyviruses, closteroviruses, tymoviruses, carlaviruses, cucumoviruses, ilarviruses, tombusviruses, tobamoviruses, bromoviruses, tomato spotted wilt viruses and alfalfa mosaic viruses.

## Claims
1. A method of treating plants to prevent or arrest viral or viroid induced diseases comprising applying an effective amount of 1 β D ribofuranosyl 1,2,4 triazole 3 carboxamide or the 2,3,5 triacetyl or the 2,3,5 triacetyl or 5 butyryl derivative thereof.

## Description
This application is related to U.S. Patent No. 4,211,771, issued July 8, 1980, U.S. Patent No. 3,984,396, issued October 5, 1976, U.S. Patent No. 3,897,415, Issued July 29, 1975 and Reissue No. 29,835, reissued November 14, 1978. All of these disclosures are incorporated herein by reference. The field of the present invention is antiviral agents for combatting viral diseases in plants. Viruses and viroids are responsible for a wide variety of plant diseases which cause significant and costly crop losses annually. In annual crops grown from seed, the losses often vary from year to year depending upon environmental conditions. Viruses in perennial tree crops often cause progressively increasing losses so called declines as the plants age. Such chronic diseases can have very serious economic consequences because of the time, labor, capital and land invested in the crop. The costs associated with viral diseases in plants include not only the expense of replacement but also the crop loss while waiting for the replaced crop to come into full production. In the case of citrus trees, for example, the growth process before trees become fully fruitful can be several years. Viruses also cause considerable losses in field crops and ornamental plants which are almost exclusively propagated vegetatively, especially potatoes, strawberries, grapes, citrus, apples, cherries, orchids, lilies, iris, roses and carnations. The virus is maintained in the vegetatively propagated stock plants and all progeny are infected in the absence of a therapy and certification program. The result is chronic crop loss. Furthermore, the costs of monitoring geographic areas for disease trends and for symptoms of disease in existing plants are associated with the eventuality of an outbreak of plant viral disease. The resulting reduction in food crops and ornamental yields poses a significant economic threat to crop growers and to the public. Presently, the most frequently applied control for virus diseases is a series of cultural methods that prevent plants from becoming infected. Certified virus free seed is planted in soil that is fumigated to destroy vectors such as nematodes. Planting locations or planting times are chosen so as to avoid natural aerial vectors, like aphids and leafhoppers. In order to minimize initial centers of infection, planting areas are chosen that are not heavily invaded by weeds or native plants which harbor the viruses in question. If such alternate host reservoirs exist it may be necessary to have a crop free period to break the natural cycles that permit viruses to continually move from crop to reservoir and back again. Another type of control is breeding plants for resistance to viruses. This is effective when there are sources of resistance that can be bred into desirable plants, so long as new strains of the virus do not emerge which can overcome the resistance. This process, however, is not effective against resistant varieties in some crops. Often breeding is not a possible control measure because of the shortage of sources of suitable resistance genes. The major problem associated with the aforementioned control methods if that neither management techniques nor breeding for resistance is effective for many viral diseases. In contrast to other pests and diseases of plants, there are no effective chemical controls in use by growers. Consequently, many diseases remain uncontrolled. Susceptible plants have no defense mechanisms to rid themselves of viruses once they are infected, unlike animals which have a well developed immune system. Once a plant is infected it is infected for life. Objects of this invention include providing an antiviral agent which is active in the treatment and prevention of a wide variety of viral or viroid induced plant diseases, which is active at low concentrations providing controllable effects, and which can be effectively delivered to the diseased plant by a variety of methods and at various stages of plant development. The present invention is directed to the use of the compound 1 β D ribofuranosyl 1,2,4 triazole 3 carboxamide and its 2,3,5 triacetyl and 5 butyryl derivatives in the treatment of diseases caused by various viruses in plants. 1 β D ribofuransyl 1,2,4 triazole 3 carboxamide and its derivatives have been shown to exhibit broad spectrum antiviral activity. The compounds may be administered to plants by soil drench, topically, by injection, or as a foliar spray. Furthermore, the compounds may be administered alone or in combination with other penetrating agents such as, for example, dimethyl sulfoxide DMSO and dimethylformamide DMF , or antiviral agents such as, for example, adenine arabinoside depending upon the environment and the particular viral entity being treated. United States Patent No. 3,798,209, which reissued November 14, 1978, as Re 29,835, disclosed the compound 1 β D ribofuranosyl 1,2,4 triazole 3 carboxamide as an antiviral agent exhibiting broad spectrum antiviral activity both Below is a detailed description of the use of the compound 1 β D ribofuranosyl 1,2,4 triazole 3 carboxamide or its derivatives alone or in combination with other antiviral agents in the treatment of various viral diseases in plants. For the purposes of further illustrating the invention, 1 β D ribofuranosyl 1,2,4 triazole 3 carboxamide and its derivatives will be referred to interchangeably as a the compound, b Ribavirin nonproprietary name adopted by the United States Adopted Names Council or c under its chemical name above. One potential use of Ribavirin is as a preventative or therapeutic treatment of virus infected plants. In field grown plants any treatment which can delay the date when most plants show the effects of virus infection can be effective as a control method. One approach is to combine a reflective mulch to repel aerial vectors with a virucide such as Ribavirin. A second approach for field diseases would be to spray target weeds better known to be reservoirs of crop viruses with Ribavirin. The advantage of utilizing Ribavirin instead of an herbicide in this respect is to prevent the killing of all weeds and wild plants sprayed and not only the target plants. Ribavirin is also useful on ornamental plants. In the case of ornamentals, perhaps more important than virus induced losses of the product, is the decreased desirability resulting from symptoms of virus infection. Plants which are free of viral entities would also be free of disease symptoms which often manifest themselves with mottling and scarring thereby reducing the marketability of ornamentals which are sold for their visual attractiveness. Ribavirin could be most useful as a tool to facilitate production of virus free plants and to increase the production and quality of the next generation of plants. This could be accomplished in the production of virus free stocks for vegetatively propagated plants such as fruit and nut trees, strawberries, or potatoes. Alternatively, Ribavirin could be incorporated into the normal tissue culture propagation procedures used routinely for the propagation of many ornamental plants. Ribavirin also has usefulness as a seed treatment to prevent seed transmission of viruses. Another potential use of Ribavirin is to eliminate viruses or maintain plant tissues in a virus free state during routine propagation techniques that are presently being developed. One example is the use of encapsulated somatic embryos to propagate somatic tissues to prevent sexual variation or the need for more extensive plant breeding. Ribavirin may be especially useful in maintaining virus free plants by its application to somatic embryos. Certain plants can be propagated asexually precluding genetic changes in progeny which might otherwise occur by sexual propagation from seed. Treatment of somatic embryos with Ribavirin prior to encapsulation will preserve plant progeny in a virus free state. The compound could also be used in combination with newly developed plant genetic engineering procedures where the Ribavirin could be incorporated into normal propagation procedures. 1 β D ribofuranosyl 1,2,4, triazole 3 carboxamide and its ester derivatives 2,3,5 triacetyl and 5 butyryl are soluble in water and can be administered to plants, seeds, stock and soil according to this invention as an aqueous solution. The compounds are also soluble in solutions of alcohol 5 15 by volume and water, dimethylformamide DMF 5 25 and water, dimethyl sulfoxide DMSO 5 25 and water and dimethyl sulfoxide alone. Procedures for Ribavirin application can be grouped into three categories The compound can be applied as a foliar spray to whole plants together with additives which would assist penetration and coverage. Ribavirin in concentrations in the range of from about 100 ppm to about 2000 ppm are effective for foliar applications and as a soil drench. In the treatment of trees, where size or environmental conditions prohibit the use of foliar application, the compound could be injected into the trunk by gravity flow or by pressure injection as is now done with systemic fungicides and antibiotics. A number of approaches by which Ribavirin could be used to produce virus free plants are possible. One such approach would be to treat whole plants as described above to obtain larger virus free zones near the growing tips. Another approach would be to regenerate large shoot tips on media containing Ribavirin to eliminate the virus. Ribavirin could also be incorporated as a component in the media used for normal plant tissue culture propagation. Treatment could be accomplished at different developmental stages of the plant protoplast, callus, embryos or plantlets. Ribavirin appears to be more effective during certain developmental stages in certain plants. Concentrations from about 10 to about 400 uM are effective. At least two methods which could be used for the treatment of virus infected seeds include treating whole plants as described above to insure that seeds produced would not be harboring virus, and treating seeds produced on virus infected plants with the potential for transmission to prevent the resulting plants from becoming infected. Ribavirin could also be coated on the seed, imbibed into seeds, or applied as a soil drench. Furthermore, Ribavirin may be used as one component of a multiple chemical treatment of virus infected tissues. It is clear from the above discussion that Ribavirin would be useful in the prevention and treatment of plant viral diseases in both hothouse and field applications. Ribavirin has been shown to be active against viruses in the following plant virus groups potexviruses, potyviruses, closteroviruses, tymoviruses, carlaviruses, cucumoviruses, ilarviruses, tombusviruses, tomato spotted wilt virus and alfalfa mosaic virus. Viruses in the tobamovirus and bromovirus groups are only slightly sensitive to Ribavirin. The following table illustrates the types of viral disease against which Ribavirin has been shown to be effective. In one study the antiviral effectiveness of Ribavirin was tested against tobacco mosaic virus TMV and Cowpea Chlorotic Mottle virus CCMV . Strain U1 of tobacco mosaic virus was maintained in tobacco plants Other experiments were performed with Another study tested the efficacy of Ribavirin in combination with Adenine Arabinoside on tobacco mosaic virus in tobacco tissue cultures. Tobacco callus cultures infected with TMV were exposed to different combinations of Ribavirin and Adenine Arabinoside in solid shoot inducing medium for one month and new shoots were assayed for virus. The presence of the chemicals in the medium reduced the frequency of shoot production. However, in several combinations, the regenerated shoots that were assayed were free of detectible TMV. When transferred to a medium without the chemicals, the remaining shoots continued to grow and did not develop TMV symptoms after plants had four five leaves longer than 1 cm. Some of the plants were grown to full size in the greenhouse and were free of TMV when assayed for infectivity. Both Ribavirin and Adenine Arabinoside effectively inhibited the multiplication of TMV when assayed for infectivity. Both Ribavirin and Adenine Arabinoside effectively inhibited the multiplication of TMV in leaf cells when treatment began soon after inoculation. When unorganized callus cells were inoculated with TMV and treated with Ribavirin or Adenine Arabinoside, neither inhibited the multiplication of TMV. However, when Ribavirin in a concentration of 0.5 to 1.0 mM was used in combination with Adenine Arabinoside in a concentration of 0.1 to 1.0 mM in tobacco tissue cultures, the presence of TMV was controlled. Other studies on ornamental plants such as orchids demonstrate that Ribavirin is effective in eliminating the usual virus pathogen of Cymbidiums, the orchid strain of tobacco mosaic virus TMV 0 . Ribavirin concentrations from 30 to 1,000 ppm have been included in tissue culture media in which orchids are being cloned, and used to drench and spray whole orchid plants in a controlled way. Virus titers were determined by transmission electron micrography and ELIZA serological tests. In order to enhance penetration of Ribavirin, 200 ppm of Dimethylsulfoxide DMSO was included in all treatments including controls. The studies demonstrate that tissue cultures of Cymbidium orchids can be freed at will of the orchid strain of tobacco mosaic virus. Cultures grown on all four Ribavirin concentrations used in the study 30, 100, 300 and 1,000 ppm developed virus free new growth. All tissues developed under these conditions are virus free shoots, roots and undifferentiated protocormlike bodies. Odontoglossum ring spot virus ORSV infected Cymbidium mother plants have been regenerated in the presence of Ribavirin. Meristems or protocorms of Cymbidium were cultured on liquid or solid 0.7 agar KNUDSON C medium, as modified for orchids by MOREL. Experiments have shown that protocorms of healthy Cymbidium originating from seeds grew well on media containing 0, 10 or 25 ppm of Ribavirin, but became necrotic after four weeks of culture on medium containing 50 ppm of Ribavirin. From the sixth subculture, virus was no longer detectible by ELISA test. Another study showed that potato cultivars infected with potato virus Y can be regenerated by meristem tip culture. Although the proportion of healthy plants obtained by this technique is usually high, it requires complex media and the rate of regrowth of meristematic explants is low. Meristems were cultured on MURASHIGE and SKOOG medium supplanted with vitamin B5, and with growth substances. Other explants shoots, fragment of shoots, stem fragments were grown on MURASHIGE and SKOOG medium without addition of growth substances. The presence of potato virus Y in plant material was controlled before and after Thus, an antiviral agent is disclosed which is effective against certain viral or viroid induced diseases in plants. While applications of this invention have been shown and described, it would be apparent to those skilled in the art that many more modifications are possible without departing from the inventive concepts herein. The invention, therefore, is not to be restricted except in the spirit of the appended claims.