# Alkylation of organic aromatic compounds.

## Abstract
Aromatic compounds are alkylated in a catalytic distilla tion, wherein the catalyst structure also serves as a distilla tion component by contacting the aromatic compound with a C₂ to C₁₀ olefin in the catalyst bed 12 under 0.25 to 50 atmospheres of pressure and at temperatures in the range of 80 C to 500 C, using as the catalyst a mole sieve characte rized as acidic or an acidic cation exchange resin. For example, ethyl benzene is produced by feeding ethylene 8 to about the mid point of the catalyst bed while benzene 14 is conveniently added through the reflux in molar excess to that required to react with ethylene, thereby reacting sub stantially all of the ethylene and recovering benzene as the principal overhead 20 and ethyl benzene in the bottoms 18 .

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A process for the alkylation of organic aromatic compounds comprising a concurrently i contacting an organic aromatic compound and a C2 to C20 olefin in a distillation column reactor containing a fixed bed acidic catalytic distillation structure in a distillation reaction zone thereby catalytically reacting said organic aromatic compound and said olefin to form an alkyl at ion product and ii fractionating the resultant alkylation product and the unreacted organic aromatic compound and olefin in said fixed bed, and b withdrawing said alkylation product from said distillation column reactor at a point below said fixed bed. 2. The process according to claim 1 wherein a molar excess of organic aromatic compound to olefin is present. 3. The process according to claim 2 wherein from 2 to 100 moles of organic aromatic compound per mole of olefin are present. 4. The process according to claim 3 wherein from 2 to 50 moles of organic aromatic compound per mole of olefin are 5. The process according to claim 4 wherein from 2 to 10 moles of organic aromatic compound per mole of olefin are present. 6. The process according to any one of the preceding claims wherein unreacted organic aromatic compound is recovered as an overhead and a portion thereof returned to said distillation column reactor. 7. The process according to any one of the preceding claims wherein said organic aromatic compound has 6 to 20 carbon atoms. 8. The process according to claim 7 wherein said organic aromatic compound is benzene, xylene, toluene, phenol or cresol. 9. The process according to claim 8 wherein said organic aromatic compound is benzene. 10. The process according to claim 8 wherein said organic aromatic compound is phenol. 11. The process according to any one of the preceding claims wherein said organic aromatic compound has a boiling point of 2500C or less sunder the pressure conditions in said distillation column reactor. 12. The process according to any one of the preceding claims wherein said pressure in said distillation column reactor is in the range of 0.25 to 40 atmospheres. 13. The process according to claim 12 wherein said pressure is in the range of 0.5 to 20 atmospheres. 14. The process according to any one of the preceding claims wherein the temperature is in the range of 800C to 5000C. 15. The process according to claim 14 wherein the temperature is in the range of 800C to 3000C. 16. The process according to any one of the preceding claims wherein said olefin is a C2 to C7 olefin. 17. The process according to claim 16 wherein said olefin is C2 to C4 olefin. 18. The process according to any one of claims 1 to 15 wherein said olefin is a C8 to C20 olefin. 19. The process according to claim 18 wherein said olefin is ethylene. 20. The process according to claim 18 wherein said olefin is propylene. 21. The process according to any one of the preceding claims wherein said acidic catalytic distillation structure is an acidic mole sieve catalytic distillation structure. 22. The process according to any one of claims 1 to 20 wherein said acidic catalytic distillation structure is an acid cation exchange resin catalytic distillation structure. 23. The process according to any one of the preceding claims wherein said olefin is fed to said distillation column reactor at a point within a fixed bed. 24. The process according to claim 23 wherein said olefin has a lower boiling point than said organic aromatic compound, there being a temperature depression in said distillation column reactor at a point above the point at which said olefin is fed thereto by the mixture of said organic aromatic compound and olefin whereby a selected mole ratio of organic aromatic compound to olefin is maintained by adjusting the moles of olefin feed to maintain the temperature of said temperature depression at a predetermined point. 25. A process for producing ethyl benzene comprising A contacting a molar excess of benzene with ethylene in a distillation column reactor containing a fixed bed molecular sieve characterized as acidic or acidic cation exchange resin catalytic distillation structure in a distillation reaction zone, at a pressure in the range of 0.25 to 50 atmospheres and temperatures in the range of 800C to 5O00C, thereby concurrently i catalytically reacting said benzene and ethylene to form ethyl benzene and diethyl benzene, ii fractionating the reaction mixture, iii withdrawing ethyl benzene and diethyl benzene at a point below said fixed bed, and iv withdrawing unreacted benzene at a point above said fixed bed B fractionating said withdrawn ethyl benzene and diethyl benzene C recovering ethyl benzene as a product and D recycling said diethyl benzene to said fixed bed. 26. The process according to claim 25 wherein said ethylene is fed to said distillation column reactor at a point within the middle one half of said fixed bed and said diethyl benzene recycle is fed at a point below said ethylene. 27. The process according to claim 26 wherein said withdrawn benzene is returned to said distillation column reactor as reflux. 28. The process according to claim 27 wherein make up ,benzene is added to said reflux.

## Description
ALKYLATION OF ORGANIC AROMATIC COMPOUNDS The present invention relates to a process for the alkylation of organic aromatic compounds. More particularly the invention relates to a process for the concurrent alkylation and distillation of reaction components reactants and products in a catalyst bed wherein the catalyst also serves as the distillation structure.Related Art Recently a new method of carrying out catalytic ,reactions has been developed,, wherein the components of the reaction system are concurrently separable by distillation, using the catalyst structures as the distillation structures. Such systems are described variously in U.S.Patents 4,215,011t 4,232,177. 4,242,530 4,250,0527 4,302,356S and 4,307,254 commonly assigned herewith. Briefly, a structure described there is a cloth belt with a plurality of pockets spaced along the belt, which is then wound in a helix about a spacing material such as stainless steel knitted mesh. These units are then disposed in the distillation column reactor. in addition, U.S. Patent No. 4443559 discloses a variety of catalyst structures for this use and is incorporated herein. Ethylbenzene and cumene are currently produced by the reaction of benzene and the respective olefin, i.e., ethylene and propylene by acid catalysis. In some known processes the catalyst is highly corrosive and has a relatively short life, e.g., All3, B3PO4 on clay, BF3 on alumina, and others require periodic regeneration, e.g., molecular sieves. The exothermicity of the reaction and the tendency to produce polysubstituted benzene require low benzene conversions per pass with large volume recycle in conventional processes. Advantages of the present invention are that the catalysts are not highly corrosive and do not require periodic regeneration, the heat of reaction is used efficiently, only low volume is required and the the feed ratios can approach unity. Briefly, the present invention is a process for the alkylation of organic aromatic compounds by contacting the organic aromatic compound and a C2 to C20 olefin in a distillation column reactor containing a fixed bed acidic catalytic distillation structure in a distillation reaction zone thereby catalytically reacting said organic aromatic compound and said olefin to produce an alkylated organic aromatic product and concurrently in said fixed bed fractionating the resultant alkylated organic product from the unreacted materials. The catalytic distillation structure provides both the catalytic sites and the distillation sites. The alkylated organic aromatic product is withdrawn from the distillation column reactor at a point below the fixed bed and unreacted organic aromatic compound may be taken off as an overhead.Suitable acidic catalysts include molecular sieves mole sieves and cation exchange resins. More specifically the mole sieve or cation exchange resin catalyst packing is of such a nature as to allow vapor flow through the bed, yet provide a sufficient surface area for catalytic contact as described in the previously notedU.S. Patent Na. 4,443,559 and U.S. Patents Suns. 4,215,011 and 4,302,356. The catalyst packing is preferably arranged in the upper portion of the distillation column reactor, more preferably occupying about one third to one half of the column and extending siibstantlally to the upper end thereof. The olefin feed to the reaction is preferably made into the catalyst bed thereby allowing immediate contact of this reactant with the organic aromatic compound in the catalyst to thereby react as much of the two as possible and reduce or eliminate the olefin leaving the reactor as overhead or bottoms. The exact location of the olefin feed will depend on the particular feeds and the desired product, but generally the feed will be between the bottom of the fixed bed and the upper one fourth section thereof preferably in the middle one half of the bed. The catalyst bed may be split at the point of olefin feed for the purpose of dispersion.For example, in the case of alkylation of benzene B.P. 800C , the olefin feed may be located at the mid point or lower portion of the bed preferably in the middle one half of the bed, whereas, alkylation of benzene with decene B.P. 1700C the decene is preferably fed into the upper half of the bed. The organic aromatic compound feed may be added at any point in the reactor, however, preferably it is added to the fixed bed or to the reflux as makeup. Also, in order to achieve high selectivity toward monosubstitution which is a preferred aspect of the present invention , there is a large excess of the organic aromatic compound to the olefin in the reactor in the range of 2 to 100 moles of organic aromatic compounds per mole of olefin, that is the net molar feed ratio of aromatic organic compound olefin may be close to 1 1, although the system is operated so as to maintain a substantial molar excess of organic aromatic compound to olefin in the reaction zone. The alkylated product is the highest boiling material and is separated in the lower portion of the column usually as bottoms. The organic aromatic compound can be the second highest boiling or third highest boiling component excluding inerts as noted above, however, by operating with a large excess of the organic aromatic compound, the major portion of the olefin is reacted, thereby reducing the separation and recovery problems. The success of catalytic distillation lies in an understanding of the principles associated with distillation. First, because the reaction is occurring concurrently with distillation, the initial reaction product is removed from the reaction sone as quickly as it is formed.The removal of the alkylation product minimies polysubstitution, decomposition of the alkylation product and or oligomerization of the olefin. Second, because the organic aromatic compound is boiling, the temperature of the reaction is controlled by the boiling point of that components at the system pressure. The heat of the reaction simply creates more boil up, but no increase in temperature.Third, the reaction has an increased driving force because the reaction products have been removed and cannot contribute to a reverse reaction Le Chatelier s Principle . As a result, a great deal of control over the rate of reaction and distribution of products can be achieved by regulating the system pressure. Also, adjusting the through put residence time liquid hourly space velocity gives further control of product distribution and degree of olefin conversion. The temperature in the reactor is determined by the boiling point of the liquid mixture present at any given pressure. The temperature in the lower portions of the column will reflect the constitution of the material in that part of the column, which will be higher than the overhead that is, at constant pressure a change in the temperature of the system indicates a change in the composition in the column. To change the temperature the pressure is changed. Temperature control in the reaction zone is thus controlled by the pressure by increasing the pressure, the temperature in the system is increased, and vice versa. It can also be appreciated that in catalytic distillation as in any distillation there is both a liquid phase internal reflux and a vapor phase. Thus, the reactants are partially in liquid phase which allows for a more dense concentration of molecules for reaction, whereas, the concurrent fractionation separates product and unreacted materials, providing the benefits of a liquid phase system and a vapor phase system while avoiding the detriment of having all of the components of the reaction system continually in contact with the catalyst which would limit the conversion to the equilibrium of the reaction system components. The drawing is a schematic representation of a preferred embodiment of one species of the present invention for producing ethyl benzene. The olefins may be C2 to C20 olefins, preferably C2 to C12 olefins, including normal and branched forms thereof. For example, suitable olefins are ethylene, propylene, butylene, isobutylene, l pentene, l hexene, 2 hexene, 2, 3 dimethyl l pentene, l octene, diisobutylene, l nonene and l decene, dodecene and the like.The olefins may contain substituents which do not interfere with the alkylation, much as halogen or hydroxyl radicals, e.g., vinyl chloride, 2 chloro l octene, 2 bromo pentene l, l pentene 3 ol, 4 methyl l heptene 4 ol and the like. In one preferred embodiment the oleo in is a C2 to C4 olefin. In some reactions according to the present invention, the olefin will be a higher boiling material than the organic aromatic compound, e.g., C8 to C20 olefins . In such instances any unreacted olefin will appear in the bottoms alkylation product, although a side draw may be used to reduce such material in the product to an insignificant level. However, operating the reaction with far less than a stoichiometric amount of olefin in the reaction zone, as described, will normally keep the olefin level in the bottoms low or entirely eliminated. In those instances wherein the olefin is lower boiling than the organic aromatic compound, e.g., C2 toC7, there may be some olefin going overhead even with the large molar excess of the organic aromatic compound present in the reaction zone. In those instances the overhead may be condensed to remove a major portion of the organic aromatic compound and the olefin and inerts removed for further separation or use. Similarly inerts such as the alkane of the particular olefin s which are often found in olefin streams will be a possible contaminant depending on its boiling point in either the bottoms or overhead. The organic aromatic compounds are preferably those having a boiling point of 2500C or less under the pressure conditions of the distillation column reactor. The organic aromatic compounds include hydrocarbons of one or more rings and 6 to 20 carbon atoms which may contain substituents which do not interfere with the alkylation including halogen C1, Br, F and I , OH and alkyl, cycloalkyl, aralkyl and alkaryl radicals of 1 to 10 carbon atoms. Suitable organic aromatic compounds include benzene, xylene, toluene, phenol, cresol, ethyl benzene, diethyl benzene, naphthalene, indene, phenyl bromide, l bromo 2 chloro benzene, l bromo 4 cyclohexyl benzene, 2 bromo 1,4 dihydroxy benzene, l bromo methyl naphthalene, 1,2 dihydronaphthalene and the like.A preferred group of compounds for use in the present process is benzene, xylene, toluene, phenol, and cresol. The mole ratio of organic aromatic compound to olefin may be in the range of 2 to 100 , I 1, preferably 2 to 50 i 1 and more desirably about 2 to 10 t 1. The greater the excess of organic aromatic compound the more the selectivity to the inonosubstituted product is improved,Alkylation is forced to completion, since the simultaneous and concurrent fractionation and removal of the alkylation product from the distillation column reactor does not allow the products to contribute to the reverse reaction LeChatelier s Principle . However, very large molar excesses of organic aromatic compounds require a very high reflux ratio, and a low unit productivity.Hence, the correct ratio of organic aromatic compound to olefin must be determined for each combination of reactants as well as the acceptable olefin content in either the overhead or alkylation product as described above . In a particular embodiment which is of current commercial importance ethylene or propylene is reacted with benzene according to the present invention to form ethyl benzene or cumene, respectively. In both of these reactions the olefin is the most volatile component and it is desirable to react it rather than have some carried off overhead. The presence of ethylene, propylene or other lower boiling olefin in the tower with benzene will result in a small but detectable temperature depression in the tower where such lower boiling olefins are present as entities and unreacted. As the ethylene, propylene or other lower boiling olefin is reacted with benzene, the depressing effect is diminished and, furthermore the reaction, which is exothermic also diminishes the effect.The magnitude of the temperature depression immediately above the olefin feed is a measure of the concentration of ethylene or other lower boiling olefin in the system, that is, the larger the concentration of the lower boiling olefin, the greater the depression of the temperature where the benzene and olefin are initially together and yet unreacted. For any particular system the concentration of the olefin to provide a given temperature depression can be determined and plotted. Thus, by maintaining a specific temperature at point of maximum temperature depression by adjusting the olefin feed, a given ratio of olefin to benzene can be maintained in a simple and expedient manner.More significantly, the maintenance Of the depression at a given temperature can assure that substantially all of the olefin will be reacted prior to the end of the catalyst bed and overhead exit, if the corresponding olefin concentration has been determined to produce that effect. This same control system can be employed in regard to any combination of lower boiling olefin and higher boiling organic aromatic compound. The length of the catalyst bed, particularly that portion wherein the reactants are in contact and the major portion of the reaction occurs, depends on the reactants, location of the olefin feed and the acceptable unreacted olef in in the streams leaving the tower. Some degree of development testing will be requiredor each set of reactants and parameters of stream purity following present disclosures. The present alkylation reaction can be carried out at sub through super atmospheric pressure, e.g., 0.20 to 40 atmospheres. The temperature will vary depending on the reactants and product. Furthermore, the temperature along the column will be as in any distillation column, the highest temperature will be in the bottom and the temperature along the column will be the boiling point of the compositions at that point in the column under the particular conditions of pressure. Moreover, the exothermic heat of reaction does not change the temperature in the column, but merely causes more boil up. However, the temperatures within the column with the above considerations in mind will generally be in the range of 700C to 5000C for the mole sieve and 700C to 2000C for the cation exchange resin, and more preferably in the range of about 800C to 3000C at pressures of 0.5 to 20 atmospheres for the mole sieve and about 800C to 1500C at .25 to 10 atmospheres for the resin catalyst. Molecular sieves are porous crystalline, three dimensional alumina silicates of the zeolite mineral group. The crystal skeleton is composed of silicon and aluminum atoms each surrounded by four oxygen atoms to form a small pyramid or tetrahedron tetrahedral coordination .The term molecular sieve can be applied to both naturally occurring zeolites and synthetic zeolites. Naturally occurring zeolites have irregular pore size and are not generally considered as equivalent to synthetic zeolites.In the present invention, however, naturally occurring zeolites are acceptable so long as they are substantially pure. The balance of the present discussion shall be directed to the synthetic zeolites with the understanding that natural zeolites are considered equivalent thereto as indicated above, i.e. in so far as the natural zeolites are the functional equivalents to the synthetic zeolites. Usually synthetic zeolites are prepared in the sodium form, that is, with a sodium cation in close proximity to each aluminum tetrahedron and balancing its charge. To date four principal types of molecular sieves have been reported, A, X, Y and L. The A type have relative small pore size. By the term pore size is meant the effective pore size diameter rather than the free pore size diameter . Types X and Y have larger pore size approximately 10 A. and differ as to the range of ratio of A1203 to S iO2 as Type x Al2O3 2.0 3.0 SiO2 Type Y y A1203 3.0 6.0 SiO2 Type L has still higher ratios of SiO2 to A1203 The mole sieve catalysts employed in the present invention are the acid form mole sieves or exhibit acidic characteristics.The acid form of the mole sieves is commercially available, but also may be prepared by treating the mole sieves with acid to exchange Na for hydrogen.Another method to produce the acid form is to treat the mole sieve with decomposable cations generally ammonium ions to replace Na with the decomposable ions and thereafter to heat the mole sieve to decompose the cation leaving the acid form. Generally the Na form mole sieve is treated with ammonium hydroxide to remove the Na and thereafter the mole sieve is heated to a temperature of about 3500C to remove the ammonia. The removal of Na ions with NH 4 is more easily carried out than with multivalent ions as described below and these catalysts are generally more active, but less stable to heat than the multivalent cation exchange forms.Mole sieves, which have had their alkali metal reduced to low levels by partial treatment with NH 4 and partial multivalent metal cation exchange, possess increased activity and increased stability. In addition to mole sieves which are acidic according to the Bronsted Theory, those mole sieves which exhibit acidic characteristics under the Lewis Theory, for example, calcium exchanged mole sieves are suitable for the present reaction. By exchanging the univalent cations e.g.Na with multivalent cation, strong ionic activity is imparted. The ratio of SiO2 A1203, valence and radius of the cation and the extent of exchange all affect the catalyst activity. In general activity increases with 1 increased SiO2 A1203 ratio, 2 decreased cation radius and an increase in cation valence.The effect of replacing univalent ions e.g. Na with bivalent e.g. Ca is much greater than replacing the bivalent ions with cations of greater valence. The various types of mole sieves having reduced alkali metal content are characterized as the acid form molecular sieve and are all contemplated as useful in the present invention. It would appear that the pore size within the crystal lattice is not important to the present reaction.According to one theory of molecular sieve catalytic activity, zeolite catalysis occurs primarily inside the uniform crystal cavities, consequently zeolitic catalyst activity depends on the number of aluminum atoms in the crystal and thus on the chemical composition of the crystal.Moreover, these catalytic sites are fixed within the rigid structure of the crystal, so that access to site can be altered by altering the structure of the crystal. The acid form mole sieves are generally produced and available as particles in the range of 10 micron powders to 0.2 inch in diameter beads . In this form the mole sieves form too compact a bed and will not function adequately in a distillation, since there is a very large pressure drop through the bed and the free flow of internal reflux and rising vapor is impeded.Mole sieves in the shape of conventional distillation structures, such as rings, saddles, and the like may be used in the present invention The particulate mole sieves may be employed by enclosing them in a porous container such as cloth, screen wire or polymeric mesh. The material used to make the container must be inert to the reactants and conditions in the reaction system. The cloth may be any material which meets this requirement such as cotton, fiber glass, polyester, nylon and the like. The screen wire may be aluminum, steel, stainless steel and the like. The polymer mesh may be nylon, teflon or the like. The mesh or threads per inch of the material used to make the container is such that the catalyst is retained therein and will not pass through the openings in the material.Particles of about 0.15 mm size or powders may be used and particles up to about 1 4 inch diameter may be employed in the containers. Suitable acid cation exchange resins include those which contain sulfonic acid groups, and which may be obtained by polymerization or copolymerization of aromatic vinyl compounds followed by sulfonation. Examples of aromatic vinyl compounds suitable for preparing polymers or copolymers are styrene, vinyl toluene, vinyl naphthalene, vinyl ethylbenzene, methyl styrene , vinyl chlorobenzene and vinyl xylene. A large variety of methods may be used for preparing these polymers for example, polymerization alone or in admixture with other monovinyl compounds, or by crosslinking with polyvinyl compounds for example, with divinyl benzene, divinyl toluene, divinylphenylether and others. The polymers may be prepared in the presence or absence of solvents or dispersing agents, and various polymerization initiators may be used, e.g., inorganic or organic peroxides, persulfates, etc. The sulfonic acid group may be introduced into these vinyl aromatic polymers by various known methods for example, by sulfating the polymers with concentrated sulfuric and chlorosulfonic acid, or by copolymerizing aromatic compounds which contain sulfonic acid groups see e.g., US Pat. No. 2,366,007 . Further sulfonic acid groups may be introduced into the polymers which already contain sulfonic acid groups for example, by treatment with fuming sulfuric acid, i.e., sulfuric acid which contains sulfur trioxide. The treatment with fuming sulfuric acid is preferably carried out at 0 to 150 degrees C. and the sulfuric acid should contain sufficient sulfur trioxide so that it still contains 10 to 50 free sulfur trioxide after the reaction. The resulting products preferably contain an average of 1.3 to 1.8 sulfonic acid groups per aromatic nucleus. Particularly, suitable polymers which contain sulfonic acid groups are copolymers of aromatic monovinyl compounds with aromatic polyvinyl compounds, particularly, divinyl compounds, in which the polyvinyl benzene content is preferably 1 to 20 by weight of the copolymer see, for example, German Patent Specification 908,247 . The ion exchange resin is generally used in a granular size of about 0.25 to 1 mm, although particles from 0.15 mm up to about 2 mm may be employed. The finer catalysts provide high surface area, but also result in high pressure drops through the reactor. The macroreticular form of these catalysts have much larger surface area exposed and limited swelling which all of these resins undergo in a non aqueous hydrocarbon medium compared to the gelular catalysts. The container employed to hold the catalyst particles may have any configuration, such as the pockets disclosed in the commonly assigned patents above or the container may be a single cylinder, sphere, doughnut, cube, tube or the like. Each container containing a solid catalytic material comprises a catalyst component. Each catalyst component is intimately associated with a spacing component which is comprised of at least 70 volume open space up to about 95 volume open space. This component may be rigid or resilient or a combination thereof. The combination of catalyst component and spacing component form the catalytic distillation structure. The total volume of open space for the catalytic distillation structure should be at least 10 volume and preferably at least 20 volume up to about 65 volume . Thus, desirably the spacing component or material should comprise about 30 volume of the catalytic distillation structure, preferably about 30 volume to 70 volume . Resilient materials are preferred.One suitable such material is open mesh knitted stainless wire, known generally as demister wire or an expanded aluminum. Other resilient components may be similar open mesh knitted polymeric filaments of nylon, teflon and the like. Other materials such as highly open structures foamed material, e.g., reticulated polyurethane foam rigid or resilient may be formed in place or applied around the catalyst component. In the case of larger catalyst components such as from about 1 4 inch to 1 2 pellets, spheres, pills and the like, each such larger component may be individually intimately associated with or surrounded by the spacing component as described above. It is not essential that the spacing component, entirely cover the catalyst component. It is only necessary that the spacing component intimately associated with the catalyst component will act to space the various catalyst components away from one another as described above. Thus, the spacing component provides in effect a matrix of substantially open space in which the catalyst components are randomly but substantially evenly distributed. A preferred catalytic distillation structure for use herein comprises placing the mole sieve or cation exchange resin particles into a plurality of pockets in a cloth belt, which is supported in the distillation column reactor by open mesh knitted stainless steel wire by twisting the two together in a helical form. This allows the requisite flows and prevents loss of catalyst. The cloth may be any material which is inert in the reaction. Cotton or linen are useful, but fiber glass cloth or wTeflonZ cloth are preferred. In the following examples the catalyst packing consisted of bags in the form of a fiber glass cloth belt approximately six inches wide with narrow pockets approximately 3 4 inch wide sewn across the belt. The pockets are spaced about 1 4 inch apart. These pockets are filled with the catalyst particles to form approximately cylindrical containers, and the open ends are then sewn closed to confine the particles. This belt is then twisted into a helical form to fit inside the column. Twisted in with the belt is also a strip of an open mesh knitted stainless steel wire, which serves to separate the mole sieve filled cloth pockets and provide a passage for vapor flow. The wire mesh provides the support for the catalyst belt and provides some degree of vapor passage through the catalyst particles, which otherwise form a very compact bed which has a high pressure drop. Thus, the down flowing liquid is in intimate contact with the rising vapors in the column. In commercial scale operations, it is contemplated, catalyst packing would be made up of alternating layers of mole sieve filled cloth belts similar to the ones described above, and a spacing material which could be of any convenient, suitable substance, such as a corrugated wire screen or wire cloth or a knitted wire mesh. The layers would be arranged vertically or horizontally. For simplicity of fabrication and for better distribution of vapor flow passages, a vertical orientation is preferred.The height of a section of this packing could be of any convenient dimension, from a few inches to several feet.For ease of assembly and installation, the packing would be made into sections of the desired shape and size, each section fastened together with circumferential bands of tie wires depending on its size and shape. A complete assembly in a column would consist of several sections, arranged in layers, with possibly the orientation of the catalyst filled belts turned at right angles in successive layers to improve liquid and vapor flow distribution. The drawing illustrates one species of the present invention, i.e., the production ethylbenzene by alkylating benzene with ethylene and a preferred embodiment of that species. Referring to the drawing distillation column reactor 10 is divided into three sections. In the middle section the catalyst packing catalytic distillation structures 12 are positioned as described. Linde molecular sieve LZ Y82 1 16 Union Carbide Corp. is deposited in the pockets of fiber glass belts and formed in to a helix with stainless steel mesh as described. The reactor 10 is a four inch diameter pilot column 70 feet tall with 35 feet of the catalyst packing in the middle portion. The lower portion of the column is a conventional distillation column configuration equivalent 25 trays . Benzene is conveniently added as makeup via 14 into reflux accumulator 16. The benzene can also be added through a separate line not shown . The ethylene is fed to the column via 8 at about the mid point of the catalyst packing 12. The ethylene may also be fed at several points to reduce the concentration at any one location in the catalyst zone, thus reducing oligomerization as a side reaction. The reaction is exothermic and initiated by contacting the two reactants in the catalyst packing. Ethyl benzene and diethyl benzene are the principal reaction products. Both of these products are higher boiling than benzene and ethylene and are recovered via 18 as a bottoms product. The feed of ethylene is adjusted such that there is a molar excess of benzene in the reactor, such that the overhead 20 is primarily benzene, the ethylene having been almost totally reacted. In addition to benzene and some ethylene other lights go off overhead. The overhead is passed to condenser 22 which is operated to condense substantially all of the benzene which passes via 24 to accumulator 16 and hence, by reflux via 26 to column 10.The benzene used in the reaction and lost with the lights which exit condenser 22 via 28 is made up by fresh benzene feed 14. The bottoms contain a mixture of ethyl benzene and diethyl benzene which pass via 18 to splitter 30, which is a conventional distillation column operated to fractionate ethyl benzene and diethyl benzene. The ethyl benzene is recovered as overhead 32 and the diethyl benzene recovered as a bottoms product. In this preferred embodiment the diethyl benzene is returned to via 34 the lower portion of the catalyst packing 12 in column 10, although it could be recovered as such. However, in this preferred embodiment it is desired to maximize ethyl benzene production. There is an equilibrium between benzene and diethyl benzene in the catalyst as Benzene Diethyl Benzene Ethyl Benzene In the lower portion of the catalyst packing there is substantially no ethylene and a large volume of benzene along with the reaction products and the recycled diethyl benzene, hence, the reversible reaction favors the production of ethyl benzene1 which is being continuously removed from the catalytic zone. Such conventional items as valves, reboilers, slip streams, etc. are not shown, but would be obvious expedients to those setting up such equipment. EXAMPLE 1 The reactor was a 1 inch, six foot stainless tube, composed of 2 foot sections bolted together. The bottom and top two feet contained conventional distillation packing, the middle two feet contained mole sieve in pockets four pockets twisted with demister wire as described above. Benzene was fed under nitrogen pressure through a rotometer to the tower about 6 above the top of the catalyst bed.The olefin, either ethylene or propylene was fed from a tank pressured with nitrogen to the bottom of the catalyst bed using a micrometering valve. The rate of feed of liquid olefin was adjusted to maintain the tower pressure with slow constant bleed of gas overhead. The rate of olefin addition was slightly larger than the rate of reaction. The benzene feed rate and bottoms withdraw rate are related. The benzene rotometer was set at a given value and the bottom withdrawal rate was adjusted to maintain a constant bottoms level. The catalyst was dried initially by taking off some benzene and water overhead and an occasional small amount of liquid material was taken off overhead during runs to maintain the dry catalyst and to remove any low boiling by products. Bottoms samples were analyzed by. gas liquid phase chromatography using a 50 meter SE 30 capillary column and FID. The conditions and results of several runs are set forth in TABLE I. EXAMPLE 2 Using the same reactor as described in EXAMPLE 1, but with Amberlyst 15 acidic cation exchange resin as the catalyst in the cloth pockets of the catalytic distillation structure several runs were carried out to produce cumene using propylene and ethyl benzene. The conditions and results are set out in TABLE II. TABLE IRUN NO. 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10Catalyst Y 82 Y 82 Y 82 SK 500 SK 500 Y 82 Y 82 Y 82 SK 500 SK 500 Olefin Feed C3 C3 C3 C3 c C3 c C2 C2 C2 C2 C2 Pressure, PSIG 70 75 123 120 120 130 170 220 220 250TEMP. F Bottoms 335 470 540 410 455 475 550 560 440 480Lower Cat.Bed 300 300 341 308 320 343 358 380 340 390 upper cat. bed 286 280 330 296 282 325 320 350 294 328Recovery RateOverhead a a a a a a a a a a Bottoms, G. Hr. 131 165 300 283 Sample 200 38.4 225 56 93 Bottoms Analysis No Take OffWt. Benzene 73.3 30.2 72.5 62.6 45.2 92.9 65.9 86.1 93.9 80.7Cumene 23.01 50.4 25.1 34.8 50.4 6.7 31.8 12.5 5.4 16.4Dipropyl Benzene 1.7 13.2 1.0 1.1 3.4 0.1 1.7 0.7 0.3 1.2 Polypropyl benzene 2.4 3.7 1.1 Trace Trace 0.2 0.5 0.6 0.3 0.6 Propylene Oligomer Trace 2.5 0.1 1.4 0.9 0.0 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.9 Production Rate G.Ethylbenzene G. Cat. Hr 0.13 0.12 0.28 0.04 0.22Cumene G. Cat. Hr 0.30 b 0.83 0.75 1.4 Length of Run, Min. 39 65 52 18 12 50 20 75 55 Sold By Union Carbide Corp. Acidic Molecular Sieve a Olefin Fed At A Rate To Maintain Pressure With A bleed Overhead. b Catalyst Not Dried Sufficiently. c Contained propylene Propane 58 42 Wt. TABLE IIRUN 11 12Catalyst Amberlyst 15 Amberlyst 15 Amberlyst 15Olefin Feed C3 C3 C Pressure, PSIG 40 20 25Temp OF Bottoms 405 335 387 Lower Cat. bed 255 215 228 Upper Cat. bed 215 215 225Recovery Rate, g hrOverhead a a a Bottoms 75 156 106Bottoms Analysis, Wt. Benzene 27.1 47.1 50.2 Cumene 64.2 46.8 45.8Dipropyl Benzene 5.0 2.1 0.1 Propylene Oligomer 2.8 3.5 3.1Production Rate g. Cumene g. cat. hr. 0.7 1.0 1.3Length of Run, Min. 60 34 52 a Oleo in fed at a rate to maintain pressure with a slow bleed overhead