# DEVICE FOR AUTOMATICALLY STRIPPING AND DELIVERING FORE END OF A PAPER ROLL

## Claims
Vorrichtung zum automatischen abstreifen und Übergeben des vorderen Endes 2a einer Papierrolle 2 , wobei die Vorrichtung folgendes umfaßt

## Description
The invention relates to a device for automatically stripping a fore end of a paper roll according to the preamble of the claim. For example, a paper roll for the production of tobacco has a pasted portion see Fig. 4 at a predetermined distance from a fore end thereof, an in setting the paper roll to a cutting and feeding device, its fore is stripped and drawn out manually. However, with the recent automation of the tobacco production line, it has become necessary to automate the delivery of a paper roll. In view of such a necessity, various means have been proposed for automatic delivery of a paper roll. For example, it has been proposed to suck and draw out a fore end of a paper roll by means of a suction head FR A 2 442 786 . In this case, a simple construction suffices in which the suction head is brought into abutment with the fore end of the paper roll and then separated therefrom. However, there has been the problem that if the pasting is not appropriate, the delivery of the paper roll cannot be done smoothly. The present invention has been accomplished in view of the above circumstances. It is the object thereof to provide a device for automatically stripping and delivering a fore end of a paper roll which device is of a simple construction and capable of stripping a fore end of a paper roll without any trouble and delivering it to the next step. In order to achieve the above mentioned object, the device of the present invention is characterized by the features of the single claim. The accompanying drawings illustrate an embodiment of the present invention, in which An embodiment of the present invention will be described hereinunder with reference to the drawings. Figs. 1 and 2 show an example of an automatic stripping and delivering device according to the present invention, in which the reference numerals 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 and 6 denote a base plate, a paper roll, a stripping lever, a pawl member, a stripping lever driving means and a sucking and delivering means, respectively. A shaft 7 is attached rotatably to the base plate 1 and a paper roll bobbin 8 which is rotated by a motor M is mounted on the shaft 7. The stripping lever 3 is attached to the base plate 1 in a position close to the paper roll 2 pivotably through a pin 9. Through its pivotal movements, the stripping lever 3 comes into contact with and moves away from the peripheral surface of the paper roll 2. At a fore end portion of the stripping lever 3 is formed an obliquely cut inclined surface 3a, and a photoswitch 10 is embedded in the inclined surface 3a. The photo switch 10 is for detecting a fore end 2a of the paper roll 2. It performs a switching operation when the fore end 2a gets on the inclined surface 3a and cuts off light incident on a light receiving surface the portion of photoswitch 10 exposed from the inclined surface 3a . The pawl member 4 is composed of a pawl piece 12 mounted on the fore end side of the stripping lever 3 through a pin 11 so that it can come into contact with and move away from the inclined surface 3a an air cylinder 13 attached to the stripping lever 3 to move the pawl piece 12 pivotally so that a fore end of the pawl piece comes into abutment with the inclined surface 3a and a coil spring 14 disposed between the pawl piece 12 and the stripping lever 3 to move the pawl piece 12 by virtue of its restoring resilience pivotally in a direction in which the fore end of the pawl piece 12 moves away from the inclined surface 3a. The stripping lever driving means 5 is composed of an cylinder 15 for pushing up the fore end portion of the stripping lever 3 and moving it pivotally toward the paper roll 2, and a coil spring disposed between the stripping lever 3 and the base plate 1 to move the stripping lever 3 by virtue of its restoring resilience pivotally in a direction in which the lever 3 is spaced from the paper roll 2. The sucking and delivering means 6 is composed of a preliminary suction roller 17 disposed in a position close to the fore end portion of the stripping lever 3 to suck the fore end 2a of the paper roll 2 which has been stripped by the stripping lever 3 and the pawl member 4, and a spring plate 19 made of a spring material and attached to the base plate 1 pivotally through a pin 18 to push the fore end 2a of the paper roll against the preliminary suction roller 17. The spring plate 19 is maintained in a state upright state of abutment with a stopper 21 by means of a coil spring 20 and it is pivotally moved toward the preliminary suction roller 17 against the resilience of the said spring when an air cylinder 22 is in operation. The numerals 23 and 24 denote stoppers for the stripping lever 3 and for the pawl piece 12, respectively. The operation of the above automatic stripping and delivering device will be explained below with reference to Figs. 3a to 3h. First, a piston 15a of the air cylinder 15 is projected from the state shown in Fig. 3a to pivot the stripping lever 3 against the resilience of the coil spring 16 until the fore end portion of the lever 3 abuts the peripheral surface of the paper roll 2 see Fig. 3b . Then, the paper roll 2 is rotated slowly in the arrowed direction in Fig. 3b by the motor M. When the fore end 2a of the paper roll gets on the inclined surface 3a and the photoswitch 10 detects it, the rotation of the paper roll 2 is stopped see Fig. 3c . Thereafter, a piston 13a of the air cylinder 13 is projected to move the pawl piece 12 pivotally against the resilience of the coil spring 14 so that the fore end 2a is held between the fore end portion of the pawl piece 12 and the inclined surface 3a see Fig. 3d . Then, the piston 15a of the air cylinder 15 is withdrawn, so that by virtue of the restoring resilience of the coil spring 16 the stripping lever pivots away from the paper roll 2 while gripping the fore end 2a conjointly with the pawl member 4 and abuts the stopper 23 see Fig. 3e , whereby a pasted portion 2b see Fig. 4 is stripped and the fore end 2a is drawn out at this time a bobbin brake not shown is released to facilitate the stripping . Thereafter, the piston 13a of the air cylinder 13 is withdrawn, so that the pawl piece 12 pivots away from the inclined surface 3a and comes into abutment with the stopper 24. At this time, the fore end 2a becomes free see Fig. 3f . Then, the preliminary suction roller 17 is operated to suck the fore end 2a which is now free see Fig. 3g . Thereafter, the piston 22a of the air cylinder 22 is projected to pivot the spring plate 19 against the resilience of the coil spring 20 and bring it into abutment with the preliminary suction roller 17, whereby the fore end 2a is sucked positively by the roller 17 see Fig. 3h . In this state the preliminary suction roller 17 is rotated slowly in the arrowed direction in Fig. 3h to send the paper to the cutting and feeding device. As set forth hereinabove, the present invention is constructed so that the fore end of a paper roll is stripped by a stripping lever and a pawl member mounted to the stripping lever and then it is sent to the next step by a sucking and delivering means. Therefore, the paper roll can be sent to the next step stably without breakage and such a simple construction assures a less expensive cost of the device.