# DIVIDING WALL, SHEALDING WALL, FENCING OR THE LIKE, INCLUDING VERTICAL POSTS AND A THEREBY SUPPORTED WEB SHAPED MATERIAL

## Claims
Zwischenwand, Schutzwand oder Zaun welche bezw. welcher mehr oder weniger senkrecht auf den Boden angeordnet und daran befestigt worden ist, umfassend eine Zahl vertikal angeordnete Pfosten 1 welche mit Abstand von einander angeordnet sind, welche Pfosten 1 von mindestens einem Rohr 3, 27, 28 mit im wesentlichen runden Querschnitt gebildet sind, wobei das Ende des genannten Rohres in den Boden gebracht wird und über welches Rohr 3, 4, 27 eine Hülse 12 verschiebbar ist, an welche Hülse 12 mindestens ein plattenförmiges Element 7 befestigt ist, welches plattenförmiges Element 7 sich senkrecht zur Achse der Hülse 12 , welche mit dem Element 7 verbunden ist, erstreckt, welches Element rechteckig ist und an zwei einander gegenüberliegenden Seiten mit weiteren, senkrecht dazu angeordneten, Platten 10 versehen ist, welche Hülse 12 nach dem Boden zu versetzt wird sodass die damit verbundene Platte 7 auf den Boden gepresst wird und die weiteren damit verbundenen Platten 10 in den Boden gepresst werden, dadurch gekennzeichnet, dass die Pfosten ein bahnförmiges Material 2 unterstützen, dass das Ende des genannten Rohres 3, 27, 28 , das in den Boden gebracht werden muss, mit einem wendelförmigen Element 5 verbunden ist, das hinsichtlich des Rohres 3, 4, 27 koaxial läuft sodass es sich, nach der Anordnung des unteren Endes des genannten Elementes auf den Boden mittels Drehung des Rohres 3, 4, 27 in den Boden schrauben wird, zu welchem Zweck das wendelförmige Element 5 aus einem, gemäss einer Schraubenlinie gebogenen, Draht besteht welcher teilweise über das genannte Rohr geschoben und daran befestigt worden ist, in solcher Weise dass ein Teil des Drahtes sich unter das Rohr erstreckt, wobei die Hülse 12 mit einer Klemmschraube 15 versehen ist um sie auf des Rohr 3, 4, 27 festzuklemmen nachdem das Rohr in den Boden geschraubt worden ist, wobei die Platten 10 , die an zwei einander gegenüberliegenden Seiten 9 des plattenförmiges Elementes 7 , das mit der genannten Hülse 12 verbunden ist, angeordnet sind beide die Form eines U haben, die Beine dieses U nach aussen gerichtet sind und sich in Flächen parallel zur Achse der Hülse 12 erstrecken.

## Description
The invention relates to a dividing wall, shealding wall or fencing which is placed more or less vertically on the ground and is secured thereto, including a number of vertically placed posts, which are located at a distance of each other, said post being formed by at least one tube with a mainly round cross section, the end of said tube being brought into the ground, a sleeve being slidable over said tube to which sleeve at least one plate shaped element is connected, said plate shaped element extending transverse to the axis of said sleeve, which is connected with said element 7 said element being rectangular and at two opposite edges being provided with further plates at right angles to it, which sleeve is moved towards the ground, such that the plate connected to it is pressed onto the ground and the further plates connected to it are pressed into the ground. A post as described above is known from LU A 84 389. In case of this known post first the sleeve is, at least partially, brought into the ground and then the tube is driven into the ground by means of a hammer while being guided by said sleeve. Now the object of the invention is to obtain an easier bringing of the tube into the ground and a better connection between the post and the ground. According to the invention this is obtained because said posts are supporting a web shaped material, the end of said tube which has to be brought into the ground being connected to a helicoidal element which runs co axial with respect to the tube such that after placing the lower end of this element onto the ground and rotating the tube it will screw itself into the ground, to which end the helicoidal element consists of a wire bent in a helicoid being slit partial over said tube and secured thereto such that part of the wire extends below the tube, said sleeve being provided with a clamping bolt for clamping it onto the tube after this is screwed into the ground, the plates being mounted to two opposite sides of the plate shaped member connected to said sleeve each having the shape of an U the legs of which are directed outwardly an are lying in planes parallel to the axis of said sleeve. Further it can be remarked that by US A 2,799,369 a post is known comprising a tube which is connected to a sleeve being proveded with a plate shaped element extending transverse to the axis of said sleeve and which plate shaped element is connected to further plates at right angles to it. In this case the sleeve has to be held into the ground by means of a shaft which is provided with arcuate plates so that the shaft can be screwed into the ground. The diameter of said shaft, however, is considerably smaller than the inner diameter of said sleeve and the arcuate plates extend only over a part of the shaft and not below the lower end of it. The invention will now be elucidated further by means of examples of embodiments depicted in the drawing, in which The dividing wall schematically shown in fig. 1 consists of posts 1, which serve to support the web shaped material 2. With the embodiment shown in fig. 2, 3 and 5 the post 1 consists of a tube 3 with a circular cross section the one end 4 of which is connected to the helicoidal wound wire 5, which can be screwed into the ground and therewith pulls the lower part 4 of the tube 3 into the ground. After this has happened, an anchoring means 6 is slided over the tube 3, which consists of a rectangular upper plate 7 with the angled side edges 8, the plate parts 10, connected to the end edges 9 of the upper plate 7, with the angled side edges 11, the sleeve 12, the supporting plates 13 connected to the sleeve 12 and the upper plate 7, the nut 14 connected to the sleeve, the clamping bolt 15 screwable in nut 14 and the hook 16. To screw the tube 3 into the ground use can be made of the anchoring means 6, which is then secured to the tube 3 on a height, that the lower edges of the plates 10 and 11 remain free from the ground. After screwing the lower end 4 of the tube 3 into the ground, the means 6, after eventually being disconnected from tube 3, is pushed into the ground until the upper plate 7 thereof rests on the ground, whereafter the clamping bolt 15 is tightened so that sleeve 12 is connected rigidly to tube 3 and the post 1 is strongly held in the ground. As is shown in fig. 3 the sleeve 12 can be placed out of the middle of the length of the plate 7, so that the posts 1 can be located nearer to the terrain boundary or to a water and less terrain is located outside the boundary and perhaps cannot be used. The hook 16 connected to the sleeve 12 can be used for the securing thereto of the lower edge of the web shaped material 2, while the upper edge thereof can be secured to the post 1 by means of hook 17, as is particularly apparent from fig. 3. At places lying in between the material 2 can be secured to the post by means of hooks 18, which are indicated in particular in fig. 7 and consists each of a U shaped part 19 enclosing the post 1, and two angled end parts 20. As depicted in fig. 6 the end part 21 of the web shaped material 2 can be secured to post 1 because this is wrapped around the tube 3 and is secured to the material 2 next to the tube 3 by means of clamping clips 22. Generally the end edge of material 2 will be stiffened by a band or strand 23 and also on the other side of the material 2 a similar band 24 will extend,whereto the clips 22 can attach. Owing to this the loads excerted by the clips 22 will be distributed over the material, which is of special interest when, as indicated above, the material 2 consists of a screen with fine mesh, which is made from synthetic material. In general with such a material longitudinal oriented reinforcement wires will be mounted during the fabrication thereof. Hooks 16, 17 and 18 can then engage to these wires 25 vide fig. 1 . The securing of the end part 21 of the material 2 can also take place, in a manner not further shown, because in the material openings are provided. By locating the openings in the end part 21 above the openings in the material next to the tube, it is possible to slide from above a strip through these openings in a direction parallel to the tube, so that the strip finds itself alternately at the one side and the other side of the material. The said synthetic screen material is in particular useful to reduce the force of the wind and can be used for instance to protect crops such as with the cultivation of flowers, vegetables, fruits and the like, but also for many other purposes, such as the enclosing of terrains on which powdered materials are dumped. As already indicated above the material made of synthetic wire can be protected against wear and becoming too hot, in that a hose 26 is shifted over the tube 31, vide fig. 6, which can consist also of meshed synthetic material. A wall according to the concerned invention can be applied selectively and removed and stocked during a part of the year for instance, whereby the wall ccupies only little space. Placing and possibly temporarely removing the wall can even be facilitated in that according to fig. 4 the tube 27 which protrudes into the ground and is connected to the sleeve 12 has only a limited length. After anchoring the tube 27 in the ground a tube 28 is shoven over it, which can rest on the sleeve 12 and if fixed on the tube 27 by means of a clamping bolt 29, which is screwed into a mutter 30 attached to the tube 28. As indicated in fig. 1 and 5 a post 1,connected to the end part 21 of the web shaped material 2, so that considerable forces can be excerted on it, can be supported with respect to the next post by means of a strut 31. If two such like posts have to be located immediately adjacent each other, as indicated in the right part of fig. 1, these posts can for instance be mounted in sleeves 12 located in the same upper plate 7. In this manner also corners can be obtained in the wall without hardly any disruptures of the web shaped material 2. As the upper ends the posts can be connected to each other by means of clips 32 not shown in detail. As particularly appears from fig. 5 a strut 31 may have a first tube member 33 connected to a plate 34 provided with a bore 35 through which passes a bolt 36 screwed into a pin part 37 abutting with an oblique surface 38, a corresponding surface 39 of pin part 40 having a bore through which passes the boult 36 with ample play. In this way with rotation of the bolt 36 the combination of the pin parts 37 and 40 will be stiffly received in the tube 3, so that the force excerted by the strut 31 on the plate 34 can be transmitted to the tube 3. The strut 31 has further a second tube part 41 connected to a bottom plate 42, which by means of bolts 43 of which only the axes have been shown, can be fixed to the upper plate 7 of the anchoring means 6. The tube part 41 is connected by means of a disc 44 to a pin 45 provided with screw thread, which is screwed into the screw bore 46 of a disc 47 located in a sleeve 48, which is shifted over the first tube part 33 and abuts a ring 49 fixed to this tube part 33. Fixation of the ring 49 can possibly occur by means of a non shown clamping bolt, so that a rough adjustment of the length of the strut can be obtained by means of adjustment of ring 49. After this correction of the length of the strut can occur by rotating sleeve 48. The above depicted construction with the pin parts 37 and 40 with a tightening bolt 36 can in a double execution also be applied to connect the upper ends of two adjacent posts 1, wherewith of course use will be made of a plate 34 provided with two bores 35. Possibly hooks 17 can be connected to this plate. For the rest it will be clear that only a few possibilities of embodiments of the invention have been shown in the drawing and are described in the above and that many modifications can be applied without leaving the scope of the claim.