# POLYIMIDE FOAM, AND POLYIMIDE LAMINATE AND PROCESS FOR THE PREPARATION OF SAME

## Claims
Laminat aus einem Polyimidschaum mit einer damit verbundenen feuerbeständigen Klebeschicht und einer feuerhemmenden Schicht, die durch die feuerbeständige Klebeschicht fest mit dem Polyimidschaum verbunden ist, dadurch gekennzeichnet, daß

## Description
This invention relates to polyimide foams, laminates formed from polyimide foam and methods for their preparation. Embodiments disclose laminates of closed cell polyimide foam having a flexible, hydrophobic non porous, vapour impermable skin on one surface thereof. U.S. Patent No. 4,488,619 describes a multilayered polyimide foam laminate that provides a foam barrier, foam facing acoustical composite with superior flammability, smoke and toxicity resistance. This laminate comprises a polyimide foam having bonded thereto a fire resistant adhesive layer and a flame retardant layer adhered to the polyimide foam by said fire resistant adhesive layer. It is known, as is described in U.S. Patent Nos. 3,966,652 and 4,315,076, that polyimides can be produced which are hydrolytically stable and which have impoved fire resistance properties, giving off essentially no smoke or toxic fumes when exposed to flame. Foams of the type there described are useful in aircraft cabins, space vehicles, land and sea transport equipment, as well as other applications where relatively non flammable and negligible smoke emitting characteristics are desirable. In the practice of the prior art as described above, such polyimide foams are prepared by reacting an alkyl diester of a tetracarboxylic acid with one or more aromatic and or heterocyclic diamines. Typically, a tetracarboxylic dianhydride is reacted with methanol or ethanol to form the corresponding diester which is then reacted with the amine or amines to form the corresponding polyamide acid ester which can then be converted to a polyimide by further heating. As a general rule, a cellular structure is developed, because both water and a lower alkyl alcohol corresponding to the alcohol portion of the ester is generated While amines of the type described above represent a significant advance in the art, their properties when used in insulation in applications involving high humidity are not as great as might be desired. Specifically, foams produced in accordance with the foregoing concepts possess an open cellular structure and therefore do not have significantly high vapor barrier qualities to facilitate their use in, for example, fire resistant, anti sweat submarine hull insulation. It is known, as described by St. Clair et al. in As described in United States Patent No. A 4,539,342 issued 3rd September 1985 significantly improved vapor barrier characteristics can be imparted to polyimide foams when the foams are prepared by reaction of a tetracarboxylic acid dianhydride dimethyl ester with a combination of an aromatic diamine and an amine terminated copolymer of butadiene and acrylonitrile. It has been found that polyimides prepared from such a reaction mixture cannot only be foamed but produce foams which can be used under conditions of high humitidy to provide vapour barrier qualities. The present invention seeks to provide a polyimide foam and a polyimide laminate which can be used under conditions of high humidity to provide high vapour characteristics. The present invention further seeks to provide a polyimide foam laminate having a tough, resilient, heat resistant surface which has even further improved vapour barrier characteristics. According to one aspect of the present invention there is provided a method of preparing a polyimide foam having a flexible, non porous skin on one surface thereof, comprising the step of heating at least one surface of a polyimide foam under conditions of heat and pressure sufficient to melt the surface of the foam and cause the cells thereof to coalesce to form a flexible, non porous, vapour impermeable skin, the polyimide foam being prepared from a an organic tetracarboxylic acid or its anhydride or ester derivative, b an aromatic diamine having the formula In a preferred embodiment the organic liquid diamine is selected from the group consisting of a polymer having the formula Advantageously, the foam is prepared in the presence of a solid blowing agent. In an embodiment, the aromatic diamine is diaminopyridine. According to yet another aspect of the invention there is provided a polyimide foam article having a flexible, hydrophobic, non porous, vapour impermeable skin on one surface thereof comprising a polyimide foam prepared by foaming a prepolymer prepared from a an organic tetracarboxylic acid or its anhydride or ester derivative, b an aromatic diamine having the formula According to a preferred aspect of the present invention there is provided a laminate comprising a polyimide foam having bonded thereto a fire resistant adhesive layer and a flame retardant layer adhered to the polyimide foam by said fire resistant adhesive layer, characterised in that In an embodiment the adhesive is a fluorocarbon film. In an embodiment the polyimide film is formed from pyromellitic dianhydride or a diester thereof and an aromatic diamine. In an embodiment the aromatic diamine of said film is oxydianiline. In an embodiment the adhesive is a fluorinated ethylene propylene copolymer. In an embodiment the organic diamine is an amine terminated polymer of at least 50 by weight of a conjugated diene alone or copolymerized with at least one vinyl monomer copolymerizable therewith which is end blocked with an aliphatic or aromatic amine. In an embodiment the vinyl monomer is selected from the group consisting of styrene, acrylonitrile, methacrylonitrile, and combinations thereof. In an embodiment the tetracarboxylic acid is a di C₁ to C₃ alkyl ester of benzophenone tetracarboxylic acid. In an embodiment the tetracarboxylic acid derivative is a compound having the formula In an embodiment the said aromatic diamine of said foam is methylene dianiline. An embodiment includes at least one aromatic and at least one heterocyclic diamine. Another embodiment includes at least one aliphatic diamine. In an embodiment the surface of the foam is contacted with a heated surface under conditions of heat and pressure sufficient to coalesce the cells of the foam to form the flexible, non porous, vapour impermeable skin. Preferably the surface is heated to a temperature within the range of 225 to 320 C. According to another aspect of the invention there is provided a method of preparing a laminate having a flexible, non porous surface comprising the steps of heating at least one surface of a polyimide foam in contact with a fire resistant, heat activated adhesive layer and a polyimide film in contact with the adhesive layer under conditions of heat and pressure sufficient to melt the surface of the foam and cause the cells thereof to coalesce to form a flexible, non pourous, vapour impermeable skin to which the polyimide is bonded by means of adhesive, said polyimide foam being prepared from a prepolymer formed from 1 an organic tetracarboxylic acid or anhydride or ester derivative, 2 an aromatic diamine having the formula It is a preferred feature that the surface of the foam is heated to a temperature within the range of 225 to 320 C for at least 0.75 minutes. It is a preferred feature that the organic diamine is an amine terminated polymer of at least 50 by weight of a conjugated diene alone or copolymerized with at least one vinyl monomer copolymerizable therewith which is end blocked with a aliphatic or aromatic amine. In a preferred embodiment the foam is prepared in the presence of a solid blowing agent. It has been found that the laminate of the present invention provides greater flexibility in the foam and added puncture resistance. In addition, the laminate has further improved vapour barrier characteristics. In an embodiment the polyimide foam is one prepared by reaction of an organic tetracarboxylic acid or its anhydride or ester derivative with an aromatic diamine and an organic diamine which is an amine terminated polymer of at least 50 by weight of a conjugated diene, either alone or copolymerized with at least one vinyl monomer copolymerized therewith. Such copolymers can be end blocked with an aliphatic or aromatic unsaturated amine to provide the desired amine termination. A number of vinyl monomers copolymerizable with a conjugated diene may be used including styrene as well as substituted styrenes, such as alphamethylstyrene and various other substitute styrenes. In addition, use can also be made of acrylonitrile, methacrylonitrile and combinations thereof. As the conjugated diene, use can be made of butadiene as well as other well known conjugated dienes such as chloroprene, isoprene. The copolymer of the conjugated diene and the vinyl monomer, when the amine terminated copolymer contains a vinyl monomer, is preferably one formed by free radical polymerization. Typically, the conjugated diene polymer or copolymer has a low molecular weight, preferably less than about 3000 to insure that it is sufficiently fluid to react in the formation of the polyimide as well as sufficiently fluid so as to be capable of foaming. The resulting polymer or copolymer can then be end capped with either aromatic or aliphatic unsaturated amines in accordance with conventional techniques. In the preferred practice of the invention, the amine terminated butadiene nitrile copolymer has the general formula In this preferred embodiment of the invention, the amine terminated butadiene nitrile copolymer is a butadiene nitrile rubber wherein butadiene constitutes at least 50 percent by weight of the total of the butadiene and nitrile. The nitrile monomer copolymerized with the butadiene can either be acrylonitrile or methacrylonitrile and the polymerization reaction can be carried out in accordance with conventional free radical polymerization techniques. The copolymer produced is a random copolymer containing both butadiene and acrylonitrile or methacrylonitrile in the polymer backbone. The amine functionality is introduced by end capping of the copolymer with, for example, paraaminostyrene or allylamine in accordance with conventional conventional techniques. In the preferred practice of she invention, the organic tetracarboxylic acid in the form of its diester from methanol or ethanol is reacted with one of the foregoing diamines, either alone or in combination with other amines to form a polyamide acid ester prepolymer which can be foamed and cured, either alone or in the presence of a blowing agent, to provide the desired polyimide foam. The tetracarboxylic acids or derivatives thereof preferably employed in the practice of the invention are those having the general formula Preferred among the tetracarboxylic acid and derivatives thereof is 3,3 ,4,4 benzophenone tetracarboxylic acid and its corresponding C₁ C₃ alkyl preferably C₁ C₃ dialkyl esters. As the organic diamine, use is preferably made of one or more aromatic and or heterocyclic diamines which are themselves known to the art. Such aromatic diamines can be represented by the structure It is also possible, and sometimes desirable in the preparation of the polyamide acid ester prepolymer, to include in the reaction mixture one or more aliphatic diamines. Such aliphatic diamines are preferably alpha omega diaminoalkanes having the general formula In place of the foregoing aliphatic amines, use can also be made of the polyamines marketed by Texaco Chemical Company under the trademark JEFFAMINE. Those amines can be described as polyoxypropylene amines, and have the formula In accordance with one preferred embodiment of the invention, the polyamide acid ester prepolymer is formed by reaction of a dialkyl ester of the organic tetracarboxylic acid with the amines described above. The relative proportions used in the preparation of the prepolymer can be varied to relatively wide limits to provide good foams. In general, it is preferred to employ between 0.5 to 1.5 total moles of amine per mole of the tetra carboxylic acid dianhydride or ester derivative thereof. The aromatic amine generally constitutes from 92.5 to 99.9999 mole based on the number of moles of the tetracarboxylic acid or derivative, while the proportion of the amine terminated diene polymer constitutes 0.0001 to 7.5 mole based on the total moles of tetracarboxylic acid or derivative thereof. It is also possible, and sometimes preferred, to employ a combination of aromatic amines, as described above, which is carbocyclic with an N heterocyclic amine of the sort described above in addition to the amine terminated butadiene nitrile copolymer. It is also possible to employ, as a fourth amine component, the aliphatic amine described above. When the aliphatic amine is employed, it is generally used in an amount ranging from 1 to 40 percent based on the total moles of the acid anhydride or ester employed. In the preparation of the prepolymer, the tetracarboxylic acid dianhydride derivative, usually in the form of the diester, is reacted with the diamine o diamines at a temperature at or below the reflux temperature of the reaction mixture. Without limiting the invention as to theory, it is believed that the prepolymer is formed of a low molecular weight polyamide acid ester which can then be heated to complete the polymerization reaction. The prepolymer can thus be in the form of a liquid or a solid having a low molecular weight, so long as it is capable of being converted by further reaction to a high molecular weight polyimide polymer. When using a lower alkyl ester of the tetracarboxylic acid, the resulting alcohol produced in the reaction as well as the water released during the reaction can be used as the blowing agent during polymerization to form the desired polyimide foams. Alternatively, use can be made of any of a variety of blowing agents, such as the solid blowing agents described in European Patent A 110723. As there described, the homogeneity of the cellular structure of the resulting polyimide foam can be more accurately controlled by controlling the particle size of the solid blowing agent, when such a blowing agent is employed. It has been found that the particle size of the solid blowing agent is preferably less than 0.02 cm in diameter, with 98 of the blowing agent particle sizes being less than 0.015 cm in diameter. In the practice of the invention, it is possible to include in the reaction mixture various filler and or reinforcing materials. For example, graphite, glass and other synthetic fibers can be added to the composition to produce a fiber reinforced product. It is frequently desirable to employ a surfactant, thereby increasing bubble stability and the uniformity of the cellular structure, to increase the fatigue resistance of the foam and to make the foam more flexible and resilient. Such surfactants are themselves conventional, and form no part of the present invention. The temperatures at which the prepolymer is converted to the polyimide polymer are generally those temperatures used in the preparation of other polyimide polymers. As a general rule, temperatures ranging from 200 to 400 C can be used, with heating times ranging from 5 to 60 minutes or longer. As those skilled in the art will appreciate, the time for carrying out the reaction is somewhat dependent on the reaction temperature, higher temperatures enabling the use of shorter reaction times. It is also possible to heat to a lower temperature in the first stage of the reaction and than higher temperatures in the later stages. Heating can be carried out in a conventional oven if desired. Alternatively, the foaming and curing of the prepolymer into a polyimide polymer can be effected by means of microwave heating. It has been found that the prepolymer can be converted to the corresponding polyimide foam by exposing the prepolymer for 1 to 120 minutes to radio frequencies within the range 915 to 2450 MHz, with the power output ranging from 1 to 100 kW. The power output to prepolymer weight ratio generally reads from 0.1 to 100 kW per kg . Once the foam has been produced, the laminate is formed by coating at least one surface of the foam with the adhesive and laying down the polyimide film on top of the adhesive layer. Thereafter, heating is applied to the polyimide film under conditions of temperature and pressure sufficient to melt the surface of the foam and cause the cells thereof to coalesce and thereby form a skin on the surface. At the same time, the heat activated adhesive is also activated under conditions of temperature to cause the polyimide film to be securely formed on the surface of the foam. In the preferred practice of the invention, the foam is contacted with a heated surface at a pressure sufficient to cause the cells of the foam to coalesce and for a time sufficient to cause complete melting and solidification of the polyimide foam thus melted into the skin. At the same time, the temperature is sufficient to activate the heat activated adhesive to insure that the polyimide foam is bonded to the skin simultaneously formed. In the preferred practice of the invention, the surface of the foam is heated to a temperature within the range of 200 to 350 C, and preferably 260 to 290 C. To effect the heating of the foam and thus cause coalescence of the cells, use is preferably made of a heated platen fabricated of either a metal or metal coated with a non stick tetrafluoroethylene material such as Teflon, marketed by DuPont. Also suitable for use in the invention are Teflon coated glass cloths which are heated to the desired temperature and contacted with foam. It is generally sufficient that the foam be contacted with the heated surface for a period of at least 0.75 minutes, and generally within the range of 1 to 5 minutes, with 3 to 4 minutes being preferred, depending in part on the thickness of the skin desired. As will be appreciated by those skilled in the art, both shorter and longer contact times can be employed. In general, a slight positive pressure of the heated surface on the surface of the foam is desirable to accelerate the melting and coalescence of the foam. In general, pressures of 1.746 to 34.475 KPa 0.25 to 5 psi can be used for that purpose. As described above, the polyimide film adhered to the skin on the foam is one film having good toughness. The preferred polyimide film employed in the practice of this invention is a polyimide film prepared by reaction of an organic tetracarboxylic acid or anhydride or ester derivative of the type described above and one of the aromatic diamines described above. For optimum results, use is preferably made of a polyimide made of a polyimide film formed substantially from pyromellitic dianhydride or its corresponding ester with oxydianiline. That polyimide is commercially available from Dupont under the trademark KAPTON . It has been found that the polyimide film, adhered to the skin of the polyimide foam by a fire resistant, heat activated adhesive provides excellent vapor barrier characteristics, good fire resistance and improved toughness. The adhesive is, as indicated, a fire resistant, heat activated adhesive, such adhesives themselves being known to those skilled in the art. One adhesive that has been found to provide particularly good results are the fluorocarbon films manufactured by Dupont, usually in the form of a fluorinated ethylene propylene copolymer. Such an adhesive is commercially available from Dupont, and has been found to be particularly well suited for use in the practice of the present invention. The thickness of the polyimide film adhered to the skin of the foam is not critical and can be varied within relatively broad ranges. Good results are usually obtained when the polyimide film ranges from 0.0000254 to 0.254 cm 0.00001 to 0.1 inches . The thickness of the adhesive can likewise be varied within relatively wide ranges, best results usually being obtained with an adhesive film thickness of 0.00000254 to 0.254 cm 0.000001 to 0.01 inches . Having described the basic concepts of the invention, reference is now made to the following examples which are provided by way of illustration, but not by way of limitation, of the practice of the invention. This example illustrates the practice of the present invention in the use of the amine terminated butadiene acrylonitrile copolymer. To 322.23 g 1 mole of benzophenontetracarboxylic acid dianhydride BTDA add 240 ml of methanol CH₃OH and 24 ml of H₂O. The reactants are slurried and then heated to reflux, 67 72 C, to form the methyl ester of benzophenonetetracarboxylic acid. After esterification is complete, 0.654g of the the amine terminated butadiene acrylonitrile copolymer is added to the refluxing solution and mixed under reflux conditions, for 30 to 180 minutes. The remaining diamines 2,6 diaminopyridine 32.70g and p,p methylenedianiline 138.45g are then added individually and allowed to mix for 15 minutes before the addition of the next diamine while maintaining the batch temperature above 50 C. Following the addition of the last diamine, the reaction mixture is heated to between 65 70 C for 5 to 200 minutes. After the reaction is complete, the mixture is cooled to 60 C, and 11.53g of a surfactant is added. Conversion to powder is accomplished by drying for 90 to 120 minutes at 65 C, then at 65 C and 170.65 mbar 128 mm Hg pressure from 45 to 75 minutes, then at 65 C and 36.66 mbar 26 mm Hg pressure from 45 to 75 minutes. The resulting friable material is then pulverised and passed through a 0.06cm 600 micron sieve. Foams are prepared by exposure to microwave energy 1.4 to 100 KW for 6 to 200 minutes and then cured for 30 to 200 minutes at 232 300 C. An electrically heated platen press is heated to between 271 to 316 C 520 to 600 F , only the bottom platen being heated. The heated platen is then covered with a sheet of Teflon coated glass fabric or Teflon coating to prevent sticking. A piece of polyimide film in the form of KAPTON polyimide film having a thickness of 0.00254 cm 0.001 inches having a coating on one surface with a thickness of 0.00127 cm 0.0005 inches of heat activated adhesive, Teflon FEP 54A fluorocabon is laid on top of the Teflon coated glass sheet with the adhesive layer facing upwardly. A 3.175 cm 1.25 inch thick sheet of the closed cell polyimide foam described above is placed on top of the film and the press is closed to a gap of 2.54cm 1.0 inch . The press is held in the closed position for 30 to 120 seconds for the adhesive to melt and flow and to form a skin on the polyimide film. The pressure is released and it is found that the polyimide film is securely adhered to the skin, resulting in a flexible composite which is resistant to abrasion, puncture, fire and the passage of water vapor. This example illustrates the relative vapor barrier characteristics of the various components employed in the manufacture of the laminate embodiments of the present invention relative to the laminate itself. The various components of the laminate of this invention are tested to determine their water vapor transmission properties, with the following results