# Method of providing total energy requirements to a human who has to be intravenously fed because of illness.

## Abstract
A preparation comprising essentially xylitol and glucose in a variable relation, each no more than 200 grams and no less than 20 grams each, as part of total intravenous nutrition support to cover the energy expenditure in humans with reduced ability to utilise amino acids.

## Claims
Claims 1. A sterile aqueous preparation as a solution for providing an energy source for intravenous feeding comprising essentially glucose and xylitol in an amount of 20 to 200 g each. 2. Use of the amount of glucose and xylitol as claimed in claim 1 per liter for the manufacture of an aqueous preparation for providing energy to human in need thereof. 3. Use according to claim 2 for a preparation for the treatment of a human suffering severe trauma, injury, burn or infection in which body nitrogen loss is greater than 4g day or blood glucose concentration is greater than 120 mg ml. 4. Use according to claim 2 for a preparation for the treatment of renal desease. 5. Use according to claim 2 for a preparation for the treatment of hepatic desease. 6. Use according to claim 2 for a preparation for the treatment of cancer cachexia.

## Description
SpecificationMethod of Providing Total Energy Requitments to a HumanWho Has to be Intravenously Fed Because of IllnessThis invention relates to a method of providing total energy requirements of a human who suffers from severe stress or injury, renal desease, liver failure, cancer cachexia or receiving ventilatory support. More specifically, it relates to a carbonhydrate mixture e.g., in the form of a solution consisting essentially of glucose and xylitol to cover the energy requirements of a human.The combination of glucose, at a rate no higher than the endogenous glucose production rate between 20 to 200g 24 hours with xylitol no higher than maximally 210g 24 hours, will unexpectedly preserve body protein in humans suffering severe illness, trauma, sepsis, organ failure or other injury, as defined herein, when given in above mentioned combination and dosage.Currently only solutions containing either glucose, fructose and xylitol, or sorbitol and xylitol are available for the treatment of a human. The major discovery of this invention is that the fructose as well as sorbitol added to xylitol in any form substantialli nltrnates its specific useful metabolic effects of xylitol during illness, such as enhancing endogenous fat mobilisation and oxidation, enhancing amino acid exchange from peripheral to visceral tissues and thereby increasing the synthesis of secretory proteins like albumin and transferrin.Fructose, like xylitol is primarily metabolized in the liver de Kalbermatten N., Ravussin E., Maeder E. et al,Metabolism 29 62 67, 1980 . In the liver cell fructose is activated to fructose i phosphate by fructokinase Zakim D.,Hermann R.H., Am.J.Clin. Nut . 21 315 319, 1968 , an insulin independent enzyme. The activity of fructokinase though is 5 times higher than all glucose phosphorylating enzymes in the liver Zakim D., Hermann R.H., Gordon W.C.,Biochem Med. 2 427 437, 1969 , and 4 times higher than the polyol dehydrogenase activity Baessler K.H., Stein G.,Belzer W., Biochem Z 346 171 185, 1966 the initial xylitol degradating enzyme. Fructse 1 phosphate is cleaved by a specific aldolase to two trioses Zakim D., Hermann R.H.,Gordon W.C., Biochem Med 2 427 437, 1969 .In contrast to the aldolase which cleaves fructose 1,6 diphosphate from glucose and xylitol metabolism, the fructose 1 phosphate specific aldolase has a very high activity and is not a rate limiting enzyme Zakim D., Hermann R.H., Gordon W.C.,Biochem Med 2 427 437, 1969 The rapid initial phosphorylation of fructose and the unlimited cleavage to trioses allows dietary fructose to be metabolized in the EmdenMeyerhof Pathway in the liver at a far greater rate than glucose and xylitol Baessler K.H., Stein G., Belzer W.,Biochem Z 346 171 185, 1966 . The high turnover rate in the glycolytic pathway during fructose administration therefore increases lactate formation, hepatic fat synthesis.Compared to other carbohydrates like glucose and xylitol, fructose underlies an enhanced conversion to fat in the liver and by increasing the amount of endogenous free fatty acid reesterified to triglycerides in the liver, fructose leads to a damage of the liver during total parenteral nutrition intravenous feeding Forster H., Internist 19 2 19, 1977 . All these metabolic effects can be observed even at low infusion rates ranging from 20 100g. Sorbitol is a polyalcohol as xylitol. Sorbitol is also primarily metabolized in the liver Baessler K.H., Pharm.Therap. Dent. 3 85 93, 1978 and there dehydrogenated by the same polyol dehydrogenase as xylitol tFroesch E.R.,Zapf J., Keller U., et al, Europ. J. Clin. Invest. 2 627633, 1978 to fructose. From that step on sorbitol is metabolized like fructose, and can cause the same metabolic side effects even at low infusion rates.Whenever either fructose or sorbitol are added to a sulution containing xylitol, the principal metabolic effects of xylitol, moderation of elevated blood glucose and insulin levels, reduction of gluconeogenesis, increase in protein synthesis and enhancement of endogenous as well as exogenous fat oxidation, are attenuated.Glucose, given above the endogenous production rate of approximately 200g 24 hours is associated with an increase of blood glucose and insulin levels Wolfe R.R., Allsop J.R.,Burke J.F., Metabolism 28 210 220, 1979 . After injury, glucose given above the endogenous production rate stimulates hepatic lipid synthesis Wolfe R.R., O Donell T.F., StoneM.D., Metabolism 29 892 900, 1980 , and reduces endogenous amino acid flux from peripheral to visceral organs MoldawerL.L., O Keefa S.J.D., Bothe A., et al, Metabolism 29 173 180 ,1980 , thus reducing overall protein synthesis due to restricted amino acid availability.The percentage of infused glucose oxidized, declines when given above the endogenous production rate Wolfe R.R., Allsop J.R.,Burke J.F., Metabolism 28 210 220, 1979 , thus contributing less effective to energy expenditure. In order not to attenuate the metabolic response to severe illness during intravenous feeding with glucose, which is primarily characterised by a mobilisation of the body s own reserves in order to optimize protein synthesis and host defense, glucose should only be given in a dosage under the endogenous production rate ranging from 20 200g 24 hours h .Accordingly it is a goal of this invention to feed the critically ill intravenously so as to moderate blood glucose and insulin elevations and to attenuate the loss of lean body mass by reducing gluconeogenesis and increasing protein synthesis. Current state of the art tries to maintain body protein by stimulating endogenous insulin secretion, or giving it exogenously Hinton P. Allison S.P., LittlejohnS., Lancet 2 767 769, 1971 , and thereby try to reduce muscle protein breakdown Woolfson A.M.J., Hertley R.V.,Allison S.P., New Engl. J. Med. 300 14 17, 1979 . During the hypoinsulinemic state of traume, xylitol is oxidized at a significantly higher rate than glucose without extensive hyperglycemia de Kalbermatten N., Ravussin E., MaederE., et al, Metabolism 29 62 67, 1980 . Xylitol enters the pentose phosphate shunt directly and does not require insulin Hollman V.S., Reinauer H., Z. Ernaehrungswiss. 11 1 7, 1971 .Depending on the severity of an injury, the maximal disposal rate of xylitol increases from 0.37g kg BWxh in normal to 0,76g kg Bwxh after injury Ackerman R.H., Infusionstherapie 7 113 115, 1980 . In contrast to xylitol, maximal glucose disposal rate after injury is reduced by approximately 36 , even supraphysiologic insulin concentrations are not capable of increasing the limit after injury Blach P.R.Brooks D.C., Bessey P.Q., et al, Ann. Surg. 196 420 433, 1982 . Therefore any glucose infusion above the endogenous production rate of 200 g during illness will be associated with an increase of blood glucose and insulin levels, causing fatty liver, reduced protein synthesis and inefficient protein preservation. Unlike glucose, intravenously administered xylitol is primarily metabolized in the liver and there converted to glucose independent of insulin, most importantly, xylitol generates the intermediates of glucose metabolism important for amino acid and fat utilisation without having to generate glucose Pellaton M., Acheson K.,Maeder E., et al, JPEN 2 627 633, 1978 .The invention described herein is a novel parenteral nutrition solution made essentially from xylitol and glucose, and a method of treatment employing it for use in a human suffering severe stress or injury or significant renal or hepatic disease to reduce nitrogen wasting and its accelerated gluconeogenesis. The novel solution of the invention is comprised of an aqueous xylitol and glucose solution, each no more than 200 g each and no less then 20 g each, suitable for either peripheral if given at low concentrations or central venous administration infu ion .Another aspect of the present invention comprises a method of treatment for a critically ill patient suitable for intravenous purposes to cover the energy expenditure, reduce gluconeognesis and protein wasting as well as promote endogenous fat oxidation, ketogenesis and amino acid availability for hepatic secretory protein synthesis, leucocytosis and for wound healing.The invention described herein is based partly upon the recognition that reducing the wasting of tissue protein and gluconeogenesis are critical to effective and successful recovery. In contrast to current state of the art of treating a patient, where protein preservation is tried to be achieved by mainly reducing protein catabolism, this new method preserves body protein by primarily increasing protein synthesis, which is a far more effective way in retaining body protein content. Accordingly, an increased fatty acid oxidation will reduce the obligatory need to catabolize tissue protein for energy and therefore provide more precursors for wound healing, leucocytosis and hepatic secretory protein synthesis, essential for recovery.Types of humans being beneficially treated herein are for example those having a body nitrogen loss greater than 4g day or blood glucose concentration greater than 120 mg ml.It should be understood that other nutritional substances may be administered so long as sorbitol or fructose are not included and so long as these substances do not interfere with the usefulness of the composition of the invention.The following examples further describe the invention.A sterile, nonpyrogenic, stable solution suitable for intravenously infusion into a peripheral or central vain of critically ill traumatized patients is prepared from pure anhydrous glucose and anhydrous xylitol, which are dissolved in distilled water in the following concentrations EXAMPLES GLUCOSE g l XYLITOL g l a 20 100 b 50 100 c 100 100 d 150 150 e 150 20 r f 200 50 g 100 20 Sterilization is carried out in a convention manner. In the foregoing formula, the ratio of glucose to xylitol is variable, but the concentration of each energy source should be no higher than maximally 200g each.As used in this application, glucose is used in its ordinary sense as the active D glucose.As supporting evidence for the uniqueness of a glucose xylitol mixture as en energy source in the preservation of body protein compared to the use of either glucose or xylitol alone in parenteral feeding serve the following clinical tests Patients with severe trauma received either 210 g day of xylitol Group I , 210 g day of glucose Group II or 210 g day of a xylitol glucose mixture 1 1 Group III as energy source. All three groups received 2 g kg BW day amino acids. The infusion rates are related to a body weight of 70 kg. Oral nutrient intake was contraindicated in all patients. NITROGEN BALANCE Day 1 Day 2 Day 3 Day 4Group I , n 3 9.1 3.1 8.7 2.4 9.5 1.9 10.7 2.9 XYLITOL Group II , n 3 12.3 2.7 10.6 2.8 13.2 3.1 15.6 3.5 GLUCOSE Group III ,n 3 5.2 2.2 5.5 2.1 6.3 2.5 5.9 3.2 GLUCOSE XThITOL XYLITOL