# Cylindrically developed pack of pressed textile material bump , with annular ties on diametral planes.

## Abstract
A substantially cylindric developed pack of pressed textile material bumps with annular ties with nylon strap or string or the like which annular ties are substantially diametral positioned on the bottoms, that is, on the pack bases, surrounding the pack itself approximately along the largest sections generally three ties are provided lying approximately on planes spaced apart of 60 from each other.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1 A pack for pressed textile material bumps having substantially cylindrical development with annular ties of nylon strap, string, or other equivalent tying material, characterized by the fact that said annular ties have substantially diametral orientation on the bottoms, that is, on the pack bases, surrounding the same pack approximately along the largest sections. 2 A pace according to the preceding claim, characterized by the fact that three ties are provided lying approximately on planes spaced apart from each other of 600. 3 A cylindrically developed pack of pressed textile material bump , with annular ties on diametral planes all as described and illustrated0

## Description
DESCRIPTION It is known that textile material coming out from the intersecting combing line end machine in the form of tape cWi be pressed in packs having a substan ial cylindrical development, geiierally indicated by the term bumps these packs are stabilized, in the pressed state and before being abmldoned by tlie active members of the press, by means of.ties performed with nylon straps or string, or other which engage azunularly the pressed mass mostly with lengths parallel to the ayis and lengths extending on the bottoms, that is, on the bases of the geometric figure of the cylindrical mass according to chords more or less remote from the geometric center of said bases. Usually six ties are provided which define on the bases a star like pattern David star , as it is shown in Fig, 1 of the accompanying drawing.The ties, in fact, are preseiitly formed mostly in pairs which define on each base two parallel and opposite chords in the central zone of each base a substantially hexagonal surface is located, being relatively large and lacking in ties, thereby the material in such zones is tending to swell by making difficult the stability of the pressed packs which are stored upright in overlapped arrangement, The pack according to the Model eliminates these storage drawbacks besides reducing the packaging costs and in particular those of the pack tying. Substantially, according to the Model, the pack of pressed textile material bump , having a substantially cylindrical development with annular ties of nylon strap, string, or of other equivalent tying material, is characterized by the fact that said annular ties have substantially diametral orientation on the bottoms, that is, on the bases of the pack, the same pack being surrounded approximately along the largest sections. In practice, three ties may be provided roughly lying on planes spaced apart from each other of 600. In the drawing Fig. 1 shows as above mentioned the tying arrangement respectively the pressing plane to carry out this tying, in the traditional packs Fig. 2 shows, similarly, the pressing plane respectively the tying arrangement on the bottoms, that is, on the bases of the pack, in a pack according to the Nodel Fig. 3 shows a demonstrative section of a pressing plane. According to what is illustrated in the accompanying drawing, it can be seen in Fig. 1 that a tie is tradition ally made up of three pairs of launches of strap or other A, A B, B C, C which define a David star like pattern on the pack bottoms and respectively, on the pressing planes being furrowed by guide channels for straps or other tying filiform elements. Substantially, there are six angular ties in planes which are parallel to and spaced apart from the axis of the cylindrical mass of the cylindrically pressed pack. In the central zone of the bases there is a shortage of ties and a tendency of the material to swell, although six ties are present. In Fig. 2 a tie is shown according to the Model, which is only threefold instead of sixfold, the three ties lying on diametral planes and the ties meeting about in the bases center. The ties lie on three diametral planes being angularly equidistant between them. By this arrangement a pack of pressed textile material is obtained which, firstly, is more economical since it is performed with only three ties on about diametral planes spaced apart of 600 and, secondarily, permits to obtain a greater regularity on the bottoms, that isr on the bases of the cylindrical masses of the pressed packs. It will be appreciated, in fact, that no bulges are formed in the pack central parts. In some casesr periferical limited bulges may occur which, anyhow, are uniformly distributed and therefore do not impair the stability of superimposed bales or packs upon stowing for storage and transfer.