# METHOD FOR OPTIMIZING OPERAND ACCESS AND PROCESSING IN A COMPUTER SYSTEM

## Claims
Verfahren zum Optimieren des Zugreifens auf einen Operanden und dessen Verarbeitens in einem Rechnersystem, welches die folgenden Schritte umfaßt

## Description
The present invention relates to a method for optimizing operand access and processing in a computer sytem and more particularly to a method operable in an optimizing compiler for code generation for subsequent machine execution which is more efficient in terms of storage references. The invention is applicable to computers that use a set of general registers, and that have a redundancy of instructions, in that the same operation exists in forms that operate between registers, between main storage locations, and between registers and main storage. The IBM System 370 and the Motorola MC68000 are examples of such machines. For the present invention to be applicable, a register operand must be preferable to a main storage operand, and a main storage operand must be preferable to an explicit load from storage, followed by that operation done with a register operand. For example, an add on the IBM System 370 can be done in any of the three ways shown below. The first uses the add register instruction AR . It adds the contents of general register r2 to the contents of general register r1, and places the result in r1. To use this instruction, the two quantities to be added must already reside in general registers. The second method adds from storage. Here d denotes a displacement, which is simply a numerical constant. Register r2 is used as a base, and the sum of d and the contents of r2 is used to address storage. The addressed word is added to the contents of r1. The third method explicitly loads one of the quantities to be added from storage addressed by d r2 into a general register r3 , and then adds r3 to r1. On the System 370, the first method is the best, the second is intermediate, and the third is the least desirable way to do the add. However, if the quantity loaded into r3 is used in other places in the program, the third method may give the most efficient overall program. For the present invention to be applicable, this hierarchy of preferences must exist. The preference may be either in object code space or in execution time. On the System 370 and MC68000, register operands are preferable to storage operands in both space and time. The quality of code produced by compilers has been an issue ever since the first compiler was produced. One of the principal objectives of IBM s FORTRAN I compiler, the first commercially available compiler, was to produce object code in the field of scientific computations which was comparable in code quality to that produced directly by assembly language programmers coding by hand. Today, higher level languages are designed to be used in every field in which computers are applicable. Even the original FORTRAN language has been bolstered to make it applicable to a wide range of programming tasks. However, it is still important that the quality of code produced by the compiler be high, especially if the resultant code is to be used in a production environment. Code produced by a skilled assembly language programmer is still the yardstick against which compiler produced code is measured. A large number of optimization techniques have been developed and refined since the 1950 s to improve the quality of compiler generated code. Indeed, many of these optimizations were known in principle, and used in some fashion by the team that produced the first FORTRAN compiler. Optimizations that are frequently employed in optimizing compilers can be divided into two classes, which are commonly known as global and peephole optimizations. Global optimizations are those that are based on an analysis of the entire program being compiled. Examples are code motion moving code out of loops and common subexpression elimination. Peephole optimizations are those that are based on an analysis of a relatively small region of the program, such as a basic block, or perhaps only two adjacent instructions. The present invention can be implemented as a global optimization including a basic block optimization. It is described here as a global optimization, in which form it is most effective. The only information it needs from global analysis is that of live dead information, in the form of a last use or not last use indication associated with each register operand of each instruction. This information tells, for each register operand of an instruction, whether or not that register can be used again before it is reloaded with a new quantity. The following references discuss live variable analysis A. V. Aho and J. D. Ullman, Principles of Compiler Design, Addison Wesley, 1977 . M. S. Hecht, Flow Analysis of Computer Programs, Elsevier North Holland, New York, 1977 . ACM Transactions on programming languages and systems, Vol.2, No.1, April 1980, pages 191 202, The design and application of a retargetable peephole optimizer by J W Davidson discloses a method of improving object code by replacing certain sequences instructions with better sequences. W M Waite et al. Compiler Construction , 1984, pages 338 342, Springer Verlag, New York, US, also describes a peephole optimizer improving selected instruction sequences. The present invention is defined in the attached claims. It is a primary object of the present invention to provide an optimizing compiler with a module that decides which operands should be referenced from the register space of the computer, and which should be referenced from main storage. The choice is made only on the basis of the instruction set available to the computer, and the pattern of operand used in the program it does not take into account the number of registers available. It is a further object of the invention to assure that load and store instructions are present in the program at appropriate Points for those operands that are best held in registers. It is a further object of the invention to provide an optimizing compiler with a module that selects the optimum form of machine instruction for each operation, where the form corresponds to which operands are referenced in a register and which are referenced from main storage. It is a further object of the invention to simplify the global optimizer, by allowing it to ignore the existence of instructions that reference main storage, other than load and store. It is a further object of the invention to make global optimization more effective, by allowing it to move storage references out of loops, and common them, even when the instructions that use the referenced quantity must remain in a loop, or cannot be commoned. It is a further object of the invention to reduce register pressure by leaving an operand in main storage when it is used in only one place. This permits the register allocator to generate better machine code. It is a further object of the invention to utilize the results of global liveness analysis of a program, an analysis which is done by most globally optimizing compilers. The objects of the present invention are accomplished in general by a method operable in an optimizing compiler for generating code for subsequent machine execution which is more efficient in terms of storage references. The method comprises first generating intermediate code that completely avoids the SR, RS and SS instructions for arithmetic like data the code referring to main memory only via load and store instructions, and wherein all computations are done in registers register ops using symbolic RR instructions. Next the program is optimized by standard techniques including commoning, code motion out of loops, strength reduction, dead code elimination, etc. Predetermined patterns are then located in the code, comprising a load op followed by a register op or a store op referring to the same objects and replacing these patterns with SR, RS or SS instructions if the predetermined patterns exist. Real registers are then assigned to each instruction by replacing each symbolic register with a real machine register, and generating spill code where necessary. This is done by any conventional register assignment module. The predetermined patterns are again searched for in the code produced by the register assignment step and these patterns are replaced with SR, RS or SS instructions when the predetermined patterns are located and, finally machine code is generated from the intermediate code produced by the previous step. It is assumed for the present description of the invention that the instruction format is two address, and the following abbreviations will be used for the relevant classes of instructions Details of the instructions for two representative machines can be found in the following references MC68000 16 bit Microprocessor User s Manual, Second edition, Motorola, Inc., Jan. 1980 . As an example of the code improvement accomplished by this invention, suppose the source program being compiled contains the assignment statement Application of the present invention will give the following machine code sequences for these four cases The requirement for an add may have arisen in other ways than simply from an assignment statement, for example in addressing arithmetic e.g., addressing an array element . Furthermore, the invention applies when there are many instructions between the add and the other uses of its operands, and when the operands may have been previously loaded into registers. As stated previously, the invention is described as it fits into an optimizing compiler, particularly adaptable to the IBM System 370 and MC68000 target machines. The assembly language used will be similar to that commonly used for the IBM System 370. In particular, the instructions are two address and the first operand is the target for all instruction types except store and the RS format instructions, for which the second operand is the target. The difficulty with the SR, RS and SS instructions is that if the compiler generates them early, they generally stay in the program, i.e., they exist in the final object code, and a program that heavily uses these instructions is often not very efficient. On the other hand one does not want to avoid their use entirely, because their use sometimes improves efficiency. The reason they tend to stay in the program if they are generated early is that they reference main storage, and main storage references are much more difficult for a compiler to analyze than are register references. This is because there are many ways to reference the same memory location, but only one way to reference a general register. FIG. 1 shows how the present invention fits into a globally optimizing compiler. The invention is shown as a module called Instruction Selection which is invoked two times during the compilation process Blocks 4 and 6 before and after register allocation. With references to FIG. 1, the method is There are three reasons for doing global optimization Block 3 before instruction selection. One is that global optimization produces the last use bit for each register operand, and this is needed by code selection. The second reason is that when global optimization is done, there are no SR, RS nor SS instructions present in the intermediate language code. This simplifies the optimizer, as it has fewer instruction types to deal with. The third reason is that optimization is more effective when the instructions are more elementary, because the more elementary operations can be commoned and moved out of loops, whereas a combination of elementary operations into one instruction may not be able to be commoned or moved out of a loop. An example of this is given below. For best results, instruction selection is done both before and after register assignment Block 5 . The reason for doing it before register assignment is that instruction selection often frees a register. For example, when it changes 1 below to 2 , register r2 is freed. This permits register assignment to generate better code fewer spill instructions . The reason for repeating code selection after registers have been assigned is that register assignment will sometimes generate spill code such as and this can profitably be changed to use an A_SR instruction. However, experience has shown that a second pass of code selection gives a smaller gain than the first pass, so the second pass could be made an optional pass that is only done when the highest degree of optimization is requested. Although the details of code selection are not the main subject of this invention, how it might be done will now be described for the purpose of illustration. Refer to FIG. 2. Scan the code from label to label between program join points , looking for the following pattern, referred to as pattern 1 in FIG. 2 Block 6 Here load denotes a load type instruction it could be load fullword or load halfword, etc. The notation d ri,rb signifies a reference to main storage using a displacement d, an index register ri, and a base register rb. The second occurrence of d ri,rb must have the same values for d, ri, and rb as the first, so that the load and store instructions reference the same main memory locations. If there are While scanning the code looking for pattern 1 described above, look also for the following, which is denoted pattern 2 in FIG. 2 Block 8 if both pattern 1 and pattern 2 occur, use the transformation of pattern 1 above If there are While scanning the code looking for patterns 1 and 2, look also for the following, which is denoted pattern 3 in FIG. 2 Block 10 The load and store may address different storage locations. If there are These pattern searches are sufficient to detect profitable places to use the SR, RS and SS instructions that exist on the System 370 and MC68000 computers. If a computer has similar but more complex instructions, such as a three address storage to storage add, then similar pattern searches could be employed. In the above searches, it is important to know if a certain use of a register is a last use. This could be determined on the fly by a forward search of the program, but it is preferable in terms of compilation time to have the global optimizer FIG. 1 Block 3 set a last use bit that is associated with each operand. As an example of the use of these patterns, suppose the source program has the statement Then the compiler would initially generate the straightforward code Assuming there are no other uses of r1, the first, third, and fourth instructions fit the first pattern. Hence the code will be replaced by Now assume the same sequence of four instructions exists, but there are other uses of r1 after the store instruction. Then the first pattern will not fit, but the second one will, giving the code If the same sequence of four instructions exists, but there are subsequent uses of both r1 and r2, then both of the first two patterns will fail to fit, and the code will be left in its original load, load, sub, store form. But this is probably the best thing to do, because the quantities are left in r1 and r2 for their subsequent uses, i.e., they don t have to be reloaded from memory. As another example, suppose the source program has the statement Next the optimizer will, by the process of code motion, move the load out of the loop, in the case where Y is loop invariant. It will leave the code unchanged in the case that Y varies in the loop. We then have the following two cases Next the pattern searches are done. The first case fits pattern 3, and the second case does not. The final code is This is the best code in both cases, in terms of execution time, assuming that store is a faster executing instruction than move. This illustrates one situation in which global optimization is most effective when it deals with elementary instructions load, store , rather than more complex instructions move , because sometimes one of the elementary instructions can be moved out of a loop, whereas a combination of the elementary instruction with another cannot be moved out of the loop. In summary, this invention causes SR, RS and SS instructions to be generated approximately when and only when they are useful. Other instructions, similar to the above, may be generated in appropriate situations by this invention. Examples are the System 370 TM test under mask and the MC68000 immediate instructions. That is, for immediate operations on the MC68000, it is often best to load the immediate quantity into a register and reference it from there if there are two or more uses of the immediate quantity, or if the use is in a loop. But it is best to compile the immediate quantity into the instruction that uses it, if there is only one use. The method described above could be incorporated into any compiler by a programmer who is skilled in compiler construction. It has been incorporated into a compiler that translates a language called PL. 8, which is similar to the well known PL I, to the IBM System 370 and the Motorola MC68000 machine languages. It has resulted in substantially improved compiler performance.