# SILICA GLASS OPTICAL CONDUCTOR

## Claims
Optischer Leiter 1 , umfassend eine Siliciumdioxid Glasfaser 2, 3 , die eine aus einem Polyimid bestehende primäre Überzugsschicht 6 aufweist, dadurch gekennzeichnet, daß der Gesamt Gehalt des Elements Natrium und des Elements Kalium innerhalb des Polyimids kleiner als 50 ppm ist.

## Description
The present invention relates to an optical conductor comprising a silica glass fiber, such as an optical fiber for telecommunication, a multiple fiber for an image scope, and a light guide for illumination. It has been proposed or tried to use an optical condutor as a means for telecommunication, measurement, and control in nuclear facilities, such as a nuclear reactor where the optical conductor is possibly exposed to nuclear radiation at a high temperature. It is well known that optical conductor comprising a silica glass fiber, which are prepared by drawing their preforms and applying a primary coating layer hereinafter the term, primary coating layer being briefly referred to as precoating layer on the surface thereof, have excellent radiation resistance as compared with multi component glass optical conductors and, therefore, is suitable to be used in nuclear facilities. According to the studies of the present inventors, however, the radiation resistance of the optical conductors comprising a silica glass fiber are various, and are varied by the material of the precoating layer. US A 4 213 672 discloses a light waveguide, i.e. an optical conductor comprising, inter alia, polyimides. An object of the present invention is to provide a radiation and heat resistant optical conductor comprising a silica glass fiber. Another object of the present invention is to provide a radiation and heat resistant optical fiber used for telecommunication. Still another object of the present invention is to provide a radiation and heat resistant multiple optical fiber used for various industrial facilities, meducal equipments and nuclear facilities. Still another object of the present invention is to provide a radiation and heat resistant light guide used for illumination. More specifically, the present invention provides an optical conductor according to claim 1. Further embodiments can be found in the dependant claims. Each of Figs. 1 and 2 is a cross sectional view of an optical fiber for telecommunication or a light guide for illumination in accordance with the present invention. Fig. 3 is a cross sectional view of a multiple optical fiber in accordance with the present invention. Fig.4 is a magnified view of Fig. 3 in a portion of the cross section. Referring now in detail to Figs. 1 to 4, each optical conductor 1 comprises a core 2 and a cladding layer 3. The optical conductor 1 shown in Fig. 2 has furthermore a supporting layer 4 formed on the cladding layer 3. The optical conductor 1 shown in Fig. 3, which is a multiple optical conductor, has such a structure that a plurality of unit optical conductors 5 each of which consists of a core 2, a cladding layer 3 and a supporting layer 4 are fused together. Each of the optical conductors of Figs. 1 to 3 has a precoating layer 6 on the cladding layer 3 or on the supporting layer 4. The core 2, the cladding layer 3 and the supporting layer 4 is composed of a natural or synthetic silica glass doped with or without a dopant, respectively. Preferably, the core 2 is composed of a pure silica glass having a purity of at least 99.99 by weight, the cladding layer 3 is composed of a pure silica glass doped with boron and or fluorine, and the supporting layer 4 is composed of a pure silica glass having a purity of at least 99.9 by weight. In the present invention a polyimide whose total content of sodium element and potassium element is less than 50 ppm, is used as the material of the precoating layer 6. An optical conductor comprising a silica glass fiber with a polyimide, as a material of the precoating layer, whose total content of sodium element and potassium element is more than 50 ppm is poor in radiation resistance, and therefore is unsuitable for use in the radioactive environments as mentioned above. Preferable polyimides to be used in the present invention are less than 10 ppm, especially less than 5 ppm in the total content of sodium element and potassium element, becauce the lower the above total content is, the more excellent in radiation resistance of the optical conductors, comprising a silica glass fiber. A great variety of organic polymer having an imide group in main chain thereof may be used as polyimide in the present invention so far as it satisfies the requirement concerning the sodium potassium content mentioned above. Among them, such a polyimide is preferably used, which is at least 30 mole , more preferably at least 50 mole in the content of the recurring imide group represented by the following formula 1 The recurring imide group is defined as the same recurring imide group of a polyimide which is prepared by reacting a diamine or a diisocyanate with a tetracarboxylic acid or a derivative thereof and thenafter by heating the polyamide acid thus obtained in order to change it to the polyimide, and the R₁,R₂ in the formula 1 are tetra valent organic group of aliphatic, alicyclic, aromatic, or heterocyclic nature having a total carbon number of from about 4 to about 50, especially from about 6 to about 20, decided by the reacting raw materials used. Examples of the diamine are meta phenylene diamine paraphenylene diamine 2,2 bis 4 aminophenyl propane 4,4 diaminodiphenyl methane 4,4 diaminodiphenyl sulfide 4,4 diaminodiphenyl sulfone 3,3 diaminodiphenyl sulfone 4,4 diaminodiphenyl ether 2,6 diaminopyridine bis 4 aminophenyl diethyl silane bis 4 aminophenyl diphenyl silane benzidine 3,3 dichlorobenzidine 3,3 dimethoxybenzidine bis 4 aminophenyl ethyl phosphine oxide 4,4 diaminobenzophenone bis 4 aminophenyl phenyl phosphine oxide bis 4 aminophenyl N butylamine bis 4 aminophenyl N methylamine 1,5 diaminonaphthalene 3,3 dimethyl 4,4 diaminobiphenyl N 3 aminophenyl 4 aminobenzamide 4 aminophenyl 3 amionobenzoate 2,4 bis beta amino t butyl toluene bis p beta amino t butylphenyl ether p bis 2 methyl 4 aminopentyl benzene p bis 1,1 dimethyl 5 aminopentyl benzene m xylylene diamine p xylylene diamine, bis 4 aminophenyl N phenylamine and mixtures thereof. Examples of the diisocyanate are ethylene diisocyanate 1,4 tetramethylene diisocyanate 1,6 hexamethylene diisocyanate 1,12 dodecane diisocyanate cyclobutene 1,3 diisocyanate cyclohexane 1,3 and 1,4 diisocyanate 1,3 and 1,4 phenylene diisocyanate 2,4 and 2,6 tolylene diisocyanate and mixtures thereof. Examples of the tetra carboxylic acid or derivatives thereof are pyromellitic dianhydride 2,3,6.7 naphthalene tetracarboxylic dianhydride 1,2,5,6 naphthalene tetracarboxylic anhydride 3,4,9,10 perylene tetracarboxylic dianhydride naphthalene 1,2,4,5 tetracarboxylic dianhydride naphthalene 1,4,5,8 tetracarboxylic dianhydride 2,6 dichloronaphthalene 1,4,5,8 tetracarboxylic dianhydride 2,7 dichloronaphghalene 1,4,5,8 tetracarboxylic dianhydride 2,3,6,7 tetrachloronaphthalene 1,4,5,8 tetracarboxylic dianhydride phenanthrene 1,8,9.10 tetracarboxylic dianhydride pyrizine 2,3,5,6 tetracarboxylic dianhydride benzerne 1,2,3,4 tetracarboxylic dianhyudride thiophene 2,3,4,5 tetracarboxylic dianhydride and mixtures thereof. Illustrative of polyamides useful in the present invention are conventional polyimides, that is those substantially 100 mol in the amount of imide group represented by the formula 1 such as those described in U.S.P. 2,710,853, U.S.P.2,712.543, U.S.P.2,731,447₁ U.S.P.2,880,230, U.S.P.2.900.369, etc, polyamideimides, such as those described in U.S.P.2,421.024, U.S.P.3,182.073,etc polyesterimides, such as those descrived in U.S.P.4,329,397, etc. In the present invention the precoating layer 6 can be formed easily by coating on the surface of a naked optical conductor comprising a silica glass fiber with, for example, a commercially available polyimide varnish which satisfies the above mentioned requirement concerning sodium potassium content, and then by baking the varnish layer. The coating of the varnish is conducted preferably as soon as the naked optical conductor comprising a silica glass fiber is just formed by heat drawing a preform thereof. The thickness of the precoating layer 6 is preferably at least 5 µm from a standpoint of obtaining an optical conductor comprising a silica glass fiber having more excellent radiation resistance , furtheremore at least 10 µm, especially in the case of obtaining a silica glass multiple optical fiber. The following examples illustrate in greater detail the optical conductor of the present invention, but they are not to be construed as limiting the scope of the present invention. About 10,000 of the optical fibers each of which has a three layer structure consisting of a pure silica glass core, a cladding layer composed of a silica glass doped with boron and fluorine, and a support layer composed of a natural silica glass, were filled compactly in a natural silica glass tube. and then the tube was drawn by heating to a temperature of 2,100 C to form a multiple optical fiber having an outer diameter of 1.0 mm. Just after drawing the multiple optical fiber was coated with a polyimide varnish hereinafter referred to as Varnish A of Du.Pont Co. U.S.A. 65 ppm in potassium content, and 19 ppm in sodium content, and baked to form a baked polyimide precoating layer 50 µm in thickness on the surface of the multiple optical fiber. A multiple optical fiber was produced in the same manner as in Comparative Example 1 except that a polyimide varnish Varnish B of Tore Co. Japan 80 ppm in potassium content and 20 ppm in sodium content was used instead of Varnish A. A multiple optical fiber was produced in the same manner as in Comparative Example 1 except that a polyimide varnish Varnish C of Ube Kosan Co. Japan 110 ppm in potassium content and 30 ppm in sodium content was used instead of Varnish A. A multiple optical fiber was produced in the same manner as in Comparative Example 1 except that a polyimide varnish Varnish D which is obtained by refining Varnish A and is 0.5 ppm in potassium content and 0.2 ppm in sodium content was used instead of Varnish A. A multiple optical fiber was produced in the same manner as in Comparative Example 1 except that a polyimide varnish Varnish E which is obtained by refining Varnish A and is 6.2 ppm in potassium content and 2.4 ppm in sodium content was used instead of Varnish A. A multiple optical fiber was produced in the same manner as in Comparative Example 1 except that a polyimide varnish Varnish F which is obtained by refining Varnish B and is 0.8 ppm in potassium content and 0.3 ppm in sodium content was used instead of Varnish A. A multiple optical fiber was produced in the same manner as in Comparative Example 1 except that a polyimide varnish Varnish G which is obtained by refining Varnish C and is 2.9 ppm in potassium content and 0.8 ppm in sodium content was used instead of Varnish A. Potassium and sodium contents in the varnish used was determined by the following method The radiation resistance of each silica glass multiple optical fiber of Comparative Examples 1 to 3 and Examples 1 to 4 was evaluated by the following manners The test results are shown in Table below. Among 10 test specimens, the number of those which cut at rotation numbers of less than 10 is shown in the column of Less than 10 rotations , while the number of those which cut at rotation numbers falling in a range of from 10 to 100 is shown in the column of 10 to 100 rotations . From the test results, it is obvious that the multiple optical fibers of Examples 1 to 4 keep excellent mechanical strength even after being irradiated.