# DISPLAY PANEL AND METHOD OF DRIVING THE SAME

## Claims
Flüssigkristallanzeige mit einem Flüssigkristall Elementabschnitt, der durch eine Blockteilungsanordnung 1 aus Schaltgliedern TFT in Blöcke gegliedert ist, um so über eine aktive Matrixschaltung 2 Videosignale D₁, ... D

## Description
The present invention relates to a liquid crystal display panel and a method of driving this panel and, more particularly, to a correction driving method of a liquid crystal display panel which uses a thin film transistor TFT as a switching element for driving block divided pixels and is time sharingly driven, whereby a high luminance line for every block which is generated when this panel is driven at an inversion period of one horizontal period is eliminated. In a conventional liquid crystal display panel i.e., LCD panel which uses a TFT as a switching element for driving block divided pixels and is time sharingly driven, an active matrix circuit substrate necessary to drive and a TFT active matrix circuit substrate of a display section are constituted on the same substrate. Fig. 3 is a schematic arrangment diagram showing an example of such a LCD panel. As two fundamental circuits to matrix drive a display section P, a gate line driver G and a source line driver D are arranged. Further, a block dividing TFT array 1 is provided for a matrix circuit 2 from the source line driver D. The TFT array 1 is driven by a TFT array driver B. The portion surrounded by a broken line in the diagram, namely, the display section P, TFT array 1, and matrix circuit 2 are constituted on the same substrate. Fig. 4 is a wiring diagram showing further in detail the portion on the same substrate mentioned above. In Fig. 4, output lines D₁, D₂, D₃, ..., D When the above mentioned LCD panel is driven at the inversion period of one horizontal period, a charge shift phenomenon called a charge sharing effect occurs in the boundary portion between the divided blocks, namely, between the video signal lines S The principle of the charge sharing effect will then be described hereinbelow with reference to Figs. 5 and 6. Fig 5 is a principle diagram of the charge sharing effect and Fig. 6 is a time chart thereof. In Fig. 5, an alternate long and short dash line at the center of the diagram indicates a boundary between the blocks and the left hand of the alternate long and short dash line assumes the first block and the right hand assumes the second block. For the last signal line S The present invention is made to solve the above mentioned problem, namely, to eliminate such a high luminance line. It is an object of the invention to provide a liquid crystal display panel which can solve the above mentioned problem. Another object of the invention is to provide a method of driving a liquid crystal display panel whereby the high luminance line which is generated due to the charge sharing effect is eliminated by an external correcting circuit without needing any modification of the panel side and the block division drive is realized when the ICD panel is driven at the inversion period of one horizontal period. According to the invention there is provided a liquid crystal display comprising a liquid crystal element section which is block divided by a block dividing array of switching elements so as to supply, via an active matrix circuit, video signals obtained from video data of an external video output circuit, by means of a source driver circuit, to video signal lines connected via said switching elements of said block dividing array to single blocks of said liquid crystal element section, wherein when video signals are outputted from said active matrix circuit to a first block of said liquid crystal element section, a video data to be outputted as a video signal to the first video signal line of a second block of said liquid crystal element section being adjacent to said first block is used to produce a gain by means of a gain control circuit which gain is subtracted from a video data to thereby obtain a video signal to he outputted to the last video signal line of said first block. Furthermore, said liquid crystal panel may include a device using a ferroelectric liquid crystal or said liquid crystal element may include a liquid crystal element using an active matrix to drive a twisted nematic liquid crystal by a switching transistor for every pixel, wherein said switching transistors may also include thin film transistors. In this invention, to solve the above mentioned problem, there is provided means for embodying a method of driving a liquid crystal display LCD panel comprising an LCD section which is constituted by a thin film transistor TFT active matrix circuit substrate an array of switching elements for sampling holding which are arranged on the side video signal lines of the LCD section by a quantity as many as the number of video signal lines an active matrix circuit which divides the switching element array into a plurality of blocks and time sharingly drives these blocks and an external video signal output circuit of output lines as many as the signal lines of one block of the switching element arrays, whereby when the LCD panel is driven in an alternating current manner at an inversion period of one horizontal period of the LCD panel, an arithmetic operating process to eliminate a high luminance line for every block which is produced in the video image is performed for the video signal by the external video signal output circuit, thereby performing the correction. The arithmetic operating process is perfomed by connecting a subtracter to the last signal line of the source driver. In the embodiment, since the source driver is constituted by a digital analog converter as shown in Fig. 2, a digital register is used. However, the register is not limited to the digital register but the correcting circuit can be realized by other register. In the case of using all analog source driver, the register may be realized by use of a sampling holding capacitor. The magnitude of ΔV due to the charge sharing effect is proportional to a voltage V of the adjacent block as mentioned above. The present invention will then be described in detail hereinbelow with reference to an embodiment and its drawings. Fig. 1 is a partial arrangement diagram showing a fundamental example of a correcting circuit suitable to embody the invention. In Fig. 1, reference numeral 1 denotes the block dividing TFT array 2 is the active matrix circuit 3 a source driver circuit and 4 an output stage thereof. Video data d₁, d₂, d₃, ..., d The charge sharing effect occurs in the video signal lines S As a practical example, a liquid crystal display panel of a scale consisting of, e.g., 240 horizontal scanning lines gate lines x 480 vertical lines source lines is used. This panel size corresponds to the size of about three inches of the television screen. Now, assuming that the number of divided blocks of the source lines is four, the number of lines in one block becomes 120 and the wiring circuit of the active matrix has 120 lines. In addition, the number of common gate lines of the block dividing TFT array consists of four bits. A color television signal is used as a video source and it is assumed that a full color television video signal is outputted to the panel. Fig. 2 is a partial circuit diagram showing an example of the correcting circuit section of the embodiment. In Fig. 2, reference numberal 12 denotes a first register 13 a digital analog converter 14 an inverter 15 a subtracter 16 an output steps 17 a second register 18 and 19 are gain controllers and 20 an adder. The first register 12, second register 17, and subtracter 15 correspond to the first register 6, second register 7, and subtracter 9 in Fig. 1. The gain control circuit 8 in Fig. 1 is constituted by two gain controllers 18 and 19 and adder 20. To execute the correction, assuming than m 120, it is necessary to know at which ratio the respective signal lines S₁, S₂, ... in Fig. 1 preliminarily exert the influence of the charge sharing effect on the respective signal lines S₁₂₀, S₁₁₉, ... in the adjacent block. The gain ratio of the gain control circuit 8 must be adjusted in dependence on the result. According to the result of experiments, it has been found that a degree of influence of V which is exerted to the video signal lines S₂₂₀, S₁₁₉, ... in a certain block by the video signal lines S₁, S₂, ... in the adjacent block is such that 80 of the degree of influence is given by S₁ and the remaining 20 is given by S₂. In addition, a range of about four lines was influenced, namely, S₁₂₀ to S₁₁₇ were influenced. Therefore, it is sufficient that the correcting circuit is connected to the video signal lines D₁₂₀ to D₁₁₇ and the gain of the subtraction amount is adjusted to a ratio of 8 2 from d₁ and d₂ and the added output is corrected by the subtracter, thereby performing the correction. Although the video signal of the digital value was fed back and used for the estimation data in the embodiment, the invention is not limited to this method. Even if a video signal of an analog value is used as well, it can be fed back by providing a sampling holding capacitor to the analog output stage. In the invention, for example, a twisted nematic liquid crystal element may be used as a liquid crystal. However, in addition to this element, it is also possible to use a ferroelectric liquid crystal element which appears as a chiral smectic phase e.g., C phase, H phase, or the like having no spiral structure which is disclosed in the Official Gazette of U.S. Patent Serial No. US A 4367924. As described above, according to the present invention, it is possible to provide a liquid crystal panel driving method whereby when the LCD panel is driven at the inversion period of one horizontal period, even if the capacitance C