# Air to fuel ratio sensor for an automobile.

## Abstract
An air to fuel ratio sensor comprising a detecting part constituted by a zirconia solid electrolyte, 20 a first electrode 22 formed on the atmosphere side of said solid electrolyte, a second electrode 23 formed on the exhaust side of said solid electrolyte and a diffusion resistant body 24 formed on said second electrode and a driving circuit 29 which drives said detecting part, wherein an electric potential of said second electrode is predetermined to be higher than a ground level 26 of said driving circuit and an exciting voltage is subjected to feed back control by said driving circuit. 29

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. An air to fuel ratio sensor, hereafter called an A F sensor for an automobile, c h a r a c t e r i z e d b y a detecting part constituted by a zirconia solid electrolyte 2,20 , a first electrode 1,22 formed on the atmosphere side of said solid electrolyte 2,20 , a second electrode 3,24 formed on the exhaust side of said solid electrolyte 2,20 and a diffusion resistant body 4,24 formed on said second electrode 3,23 and a driving circuit 25 29, 30,33,34,280,281,41 43 which drives said detecting part, wherein an electric poten tial of said second electrode 3,23 is predetermined to be higher than a ground level 26 of said driving circuit 25 29,30,33,34,280,281,41 43 and an exciting voltage is subjected to feed back control by said driving circuit 25 29,30,33,34,280,281,41 43 . 2. An A F sensor for an automobile as claimed in claim 1, characterized in that an exciting voltage between said first electrode 1,22 and said second electrode 3,23 is controlled to be constant. 3. An A F sensor for an automobile as claimed in claim 1, characterized in that an exciting voltage between said first electrode 1,22 and said second electrode 3,23 is changed by feedback control in accordance with the quantity of oxygen ions flowing through said solid electrolyte 2,20 . 4. An A F sensor for an automobile as claimed in claim 1, characterized in that an exciting voltage between said first electrode 1,22 and said second electrode 3,23 is changed in step form by feed back control in accor dance with the direction of the flow of oxygen ions through said solid electrolyte 2,20 .

## Description
Specification Title of the Invention Air to fuel ratio Sensor for an Automobile Field of the Invention The present invention relates to a sensor for an A F control apparatus of an internal combustion engine and, more particularly an A F sensor for an automobile which facilitates detecting A F in three conditicns, a rich region, theoretical A F and a lean reion, in a wide range. 3 c,kgrour.d of the Invention It is desirable that an internal combustion erc e be operated in a rich region in which an excess air rate A is A 1, at A 1 a theoretical A F and in 2 lean region in which A 1 corresponding to the conditions of the engine hence it is required that the A F be detected in a wide range from the rich region to the lean region by a single sensor. On the other hand, relations between the excess air rate X and a residual oxygen consistency and a carbon monoxide consistency in exhaust gas are. as shown in Fig. 11 and in the lean region the oxygen 02 consistency varies approximately linearly to the A F and in the rich region the carbon monoxide CO consistency varies approximately linearly to the A F. Basic principles of A F sensors of the prior art which detect the A F of each region individually by utilizing the residual oxygen consistency and the carbon monoxide consistency are shown in Fig. 12 A . The A F sensor is constituted by an electrode 1, a zirconia solid electrolyte 2, an electrode 3, a protecting film 4 and an ammeter 5. The sensor shown in Fig. 12 A detects the rich region A 1 by applying an exciting voltage E of approximately 0.5 V between the electrode 1 and the electrode 3 which are a cathode and an anode respectively as r z.own from, for instance, JapanesePatent Laid Open o, 66292 1978. The protecting film 4 functions as c gas diffusion resistant body and the oxygen gas which is subjected to burning reaction with unburnt gas which is diffused into the electrode 3 part through the protecting film 4 is transferred from the electrode 1 part contacting the atmosphere to the electrode 3 part through the zirconia solid electrolyte 2 in the form of oxygen ions.Therefore, a pumping current Ip measured by the ammeter 5 represents the quantity of the oxygen ions transferred from the electrode 1 to the electrode 3 and corresponds to the quantity of the unburnt gas diffused into the electrode 3 part through the protecting film 4 so that the analog detection of the A F in the rich region in facilitated by measurement of Ip. As shown in Fig. 12 B , when an electromotive force eA between two electrodes is detected with the potential of the electrode 3 contacting the exhaust gas through the protecting film as reference, because the value of eA changes incrementally by approximately i V at the theoretical F N, the approximate digital detection of X 1 is facilitated by measurement of e . This principle is known from, for instance, Jatar ese Patent Laid Open No. 375 1972. As shown in Fig. 13 C , when an exciting voltage of aD roximately 0.5 V is applied between two electrodes with the electrode 3 as a cathode, the oxygen lcr.s are nwmped from the electrode 3 part to She electrode 1 part and the pumping current Ip is measured by the ammeter 5. As this pumping current Ip corresponds to the quantity of the oxygen diffused into the electrode 3 part through the protecting film, the lean region A 1 can be detected from the Ip value. This principle is known from, for instance, JapanesePatent Laid Open No. 69690 1977. Examples of the characteristics of the sensors of the prior art shown in Fig. A ,, C are shown in Fig. 13. The characteristic in the lean region is shown by a one dot chain line, the characteristic in the rich region is shown by a dotted line and the characteristic at the theoretical A F is shown by a solid line. Thus the detection methods which can detect individual regions are known but the constitution with which the A F is detected smoothly inthe wide range by a single method is not proposed yet. Note that, as the principle of the sensor shown in Fig. 12 B is not based upon the speed of diffusion rule, the rate of the gas diffusion resistance of the protecting film 4 of the sensor of Fig. B is formed to ke smaller than those of the sensors of ic. A and 0 . In general, the thickness of the protecting A ri the case of Fig. 12 B is formed than those in other cases. It is also known from, for instance, JapanesePatent Laid Open No. 62349 1980 and Japanese PatentLaid Open No. 154450 1980 that analog detection ofA F can be obtained from a terminal voltage between two electrodes by applying a certain current between the electrodes and it is also shown that the A Fs in the rich region and the lean region can be detected by switching the polarities of two electrodes. However, it is not shown when and how the polarities must be switched. It is also known from Japanese Patent LaidOpen No. 48749 1983 that the theoretical A F and theA F in the lean region can be detected by switching the connection between two electrodes and an electronic circuit and changing the measurement mode of the sensor. However, detection in the rich region is not considered in this method. Object of the Invention It is an object of the present invention to provide an A F sensor for an automobile by which the in a rich region, the A at a theoretical A F in 2 lean region can be detected with a single constitution and high accuracy. Summary of the Invention In an A F sensor of the present invention, an electrical potential of an electrode provided on the exhaust side of a zirconia solid electrolyte composing a detecting part is predetermined at the level higher than the ground level of a driving circuit which drives the detecting part and an exciting voltage between an electrode on the atmosphere side and the electrode on the exhaust side constituting the detecting part is subjected to feed back control by the driving circuit. With this constitution, the A F in a rich region, at a theoretical A F and in a lean region can be detected continuously from quantity of oxygen flowing through the zirconia solid electrolyte. Brief Description of the Drzt s Fig. 1 shows a principle cc s.i n i n or an A r sensor of the present invention Fig. 2 is an electromotive force characteristic diagram describing the principle of the present invention Fig. 3 shows a circuit configuration describing one embodiment of an A F sensor of the presnet invention Fig. 4 shows examples of characteristics of an A F sensor of the present invention Fig. 5 shows examples of V I characteristics Fig. 6 shows the other embodiment of an A F sensor of the present invention Fig. 7 and Fig. 8 show still other embodiments of an A F sensor of the present invention Fig. 9 shows an example of the other characteristic of an A F sensor of the present invention Fig. 10 shows a circuit configuration describing the other embodiment of an A F sensor of the present invention Fc. 11 shows relations between A F and exhaust gas consistencies Fig. 12 describes a principle of an A F sensor of the prior art Fig. 13 describes characteristics of an A F sensor of the prior art and Fig. 14 shows mounting state of an A F sensor of the present invention. Preferred embodiments of the Invention Embodiments of an A F sensor of the present invention will be hereinunder described with reference to related drawings. Fig. 14 shows the mounting state of an A F sensor of the present invention. A tubular detecting part 10 is provided in a protecting tube 12 which has holes 11 and fixed in a peg 14 and mounted in an exhaust pite 15 through which exha ast gas is flowing. The reference numeral 16 denotes electrode terminals and the reference n zeral 17 denotes heater terminals thro g .i the detecting part 10 is connected to an electronic circuit not shown . A rod shape heater Such as a tungsten heater mounted in an alumina rod is mounted in a zirconia solid electrolyte 10 compos ing a tubular detecting part. Before describing the embodiments of the present invention, the basic principle of the present inven tion will be described hereinuder with reference to Fig. 1 and Fig. 2. A predetermined voltage VE for instance 0.45 V is applied between an electrode on the atmosphere side and an electrode on the exhaust side regardless of an excess air rate X such as shown by an exciting voltage characteristic b in Fig. 2 against a char acteristic of a curve a which changes incrementally at the theoretical A F 1 . With this applied voltage, an electromotive force of the curve a is decreased in a rich region R 1 and is increased in a lean region X 1 . The voltage VE can be ap plied with a predetermined inclination as shown by characteristic c or incrementally as shown by cha acteristic b . Fig. 1 shows a principle constItution of the present invention. The sensor of Fig. 1 is constitutec b a detecting part of oxygen consitutuency and a driving circuit which drives the detecting part. The reference numeral 20 denotes a tubular zirconia solid electrolyte and the atmospheric air is introduced into the electrolyte 20. The reference numeral 21 denotes a rod shaped heater which heats the zirconia solid electrolyte 20 to at least 600 to improve conductiveness of oxygen ions. A first electrode 22 is formed on the atmosphere side of the zirconia solid electrolyte 20 and a second electrode 23 is formed on the exhaust side of the zirconia solid electrolyte 20.These electrodes are composed of platinum with thickness of several tens of ,um and made porous. A diffusion resistant body 2t is formed on the surface of the second electrode 23 to suppress gases such as oxygen or carbon.monoxide which flow from the exhaust gas atmosphere into the electrode 23 part by diffusion. The diffusion resistant body 24 is formed by plasma spray from a spinner or the like and made porous. In order to make diffusion resistance rate large, the thickness of the diffusion resistant bodv X is several hundreds of pm and has a thickness several times that of the film in a theoretical A F sensor. The detecting part of the A F sensor is constituted as described above. The reference nrreral 25 denotes a airrerenti2i amplifier. The second electrode 23 is connected to a floating ground 27 which has a level higher by a certain voltage than a real ground 26. The first electrode 22 is connected to a side input terminal of the amplifier 25. A voltage source 28 for predetermination of an exciting voltage VR is inserted between a side input terminal of the amplifier 25 and the floating ground 27. A fixed resistor 29 of resistance R is provided for converting an oxygen pumping current Ip which represents the quantity of oxygen ions flowing through the zirconia solid electro lyte 20 into an output voltage Eo. The driving cir cuit of the A F sensor is constituted as described above. The operation of the A F sensor of the present invention is hereinunder described. As a potential of the second electrode 23 is lower than a potential of the first electrode 22 byVR in the lean region, oxygen molecules in the second electrode 23 part are converted into oxygen ions 0 in the electrode part by the exciting voltage VR and transferred to the first electrode 22 part through the zirconia solid electrolyte 20 by an operation of oxygen pu p. Then tne oxygen ions are again neu tralized in the electrode part and discharged into the atmosphere. At At that X , z positive pump current Ip reverse d ect cn 0 flow is applied in the circuit and the output voltage Eo is changed. As the pumpino current Ip, wherein Ip 0, corresponds to the quantity of oxygen flowing from the exhaust gas atmosphere into the second electrode 23 part through the diffusion resistant body 24 by diffusion, the following equation is effected Ip K R 1 ... 1 wherein X is an excess air rate and K is a proportionality constant. Therefore, if an electrical potential of the potential ground is Vo, as the output voltage Eo of the A F sensor is, Eo VR Vo IpR ... 2 then from equations 1 and 2 , Eo VR Vo K R 1 R ... 3 At the theoretical A F A 1 , the ratio of the residual oxygen and the residual unburnt gas such as carbon monoxide in the exhaust gas flowing into the second electrode 23 part rough the diffusion resistant body is the ratio of the berIcal chemical equivalents and both of tie are completely burnt by catalysis of the second electrode As the oxygen is eliminated in the second electrode 23 part, even if a voltage is applied between the first electrode 22 and the second electrode 23, no oxygen ion is transferred through the zirconia solid electrolyte 20. Therefore, the pumping current in the electronic circuit becomes zero Ip 0 . At that time, from the equation 3 , the output voltage Eo is, Eo VR Vo ... 4 which is a constant value determined only by circuit constants. As the equation 4 is independent ofIp, the output voltage Eo at X 1 is a highly reliable value. In the rich region, as the electromotive force between two electrodes is reduced to the level of the exciting voltage as described in Fig. 2, the oxygen ions flow from the first electrode 22 part into the second electrode 23 part through the zirconia solid electrolyte 20, or flow in the opposite direction to the case of the lean region. The oxygen ion flow increases oxygen consistency in the second electrode 23 part.The oxen ions are again neutralized in the second electrode 23 part to be converted into oxygen molecules and are burnt with the unburnt cas such as carbon monoxide which flows the exha st gas atmosphere into the second electrode 23 part through the diffusion resistant body 24. Therefore, the quantity of the oxygen ions transferred from the first electrode 22 part to the second electrode 23 part through the zirconia solid electrolyte 20 corresponds to the quantity of the unburnt gas flowing into the second electrode 23 part by diffusion.At that time, the pumping current in the electronic circuit is Ip 0. As there is a certain relation between the consistency of the unburnt gas such as carbon monoxide and the excess air rate X as shown in Fig. 11, equations 1 3 are effective in the rich region too, except that in the lean region, as A 1, thenIp 0 and in the rich region, as A 1, then Ip 0. Then one embodiment of a driving circuit of anA F sensor of the present invention is hereinunder described with reference to Fig. 3. The same parts as in Fig. 1 are denoted by the same reference numerals as in Fig. 1. The. second electrode 23 is connected to the potential ground 27 point Y and controlled at a costant potential Vo by an amplifier 0. The potential t tune first electrode 22 is controlled to be Vo รง , by an amplifier 25. Therefore, the potential reference between the first electrode 22 and the second electrode 23, or the exciting voltage VE is, VE Vo Y VR Vo VR ... 5 and is controlled at a constant value regardless of the excess air rate A. In the lean region, the pumping current Ip flows from a point X to the real ground 26 through the resistor 29 the zirconia solid electrolyte 20 the floating ground point Y the amplifier 30. In the rich region, the pumping current Ip flows from the floating ground point Y to the real ground 26 through the zirconia solid electrolyte 20 the resistor 29 e the point X the amplifier 25. At the theoretical A F 1 , in the sensorIp 0 as the principle, the output voltage Eo becomes Vo as given by the equation 4 . Thus, with the embodiment of an A F sensor of the present invention three conditions, i. e. A 1, A 1 and A can be detected continuously without switching the polarities between two electrodes and with a single source circuit. Examples of the results obtained by the measure ment with the constitution of the embodiment of the present invention show n Fig. 3 are shown in Fig.4. Fig. 4 sows the measured results when Vo 4.55V and VR 0.45 V. AS shown by a solid line in the diagram, the A F can be ecied in the wide range from the rich region to the lean region continuously.It was also confirmed that the output voltage Eo at the theoretical A F R 1 was Vo VR 5 V which was predicted from the principle. With this embodiment, the A F in the whole regions can be detected linearly and with high accuracy and smooth feed back control A F is facilitated in accordance with the conditions of an engine and a far more excellent control system in terms of exhaust gas countermeasure and fuel economy, compared to systems of the prior art1 can be provided. Especially, significant improvement of fuel efficiency can be expected by that engine control in the lean region is facilitated and that linear feed back control in the rich region is facilitated. V I characteristics of the sensor detecting part are shown in Fig. 5. As shown in the diagram, a pumping current Ip shows a certain saturated value at certain exciting voltage. By measuring the saturated current value, the excess air rate A can be detected. If the excit ing voltage VE CGeS higher, the pzmsi nG current Ip shows a hic e value than the saturated value. This phenomenon is caused by a shift of the conduction mechanism in the zirconia solid electrolyte 20 from ion conduction to electron conduction. The smaller the excess air rate, the lower the exciting voltage VE at which shift to the electron conduction occurs. In the region of A 1, the pumping curent Ip 0 and corresponds to the quantity of oxygen flowing into the second electrode 23 part by diffusion through the diffusion resistant body 24. In the region of A 1, the pumping current Ip 0 and corresponds to the quantity of unburnt gas such as carbon monoxide flowing into the second electrode 23 part by diffusion through the diffusion resistant body 24. Fig. 5 shows V I characteristics when the temperature Tg of the zirconia solid electrolyte is 7000C. If the saturated current Ip corresponding to each excess air rate can be detected, the A F can be detected linearly in the wide range from the rich region to the lean region. As understood from theV I characteristics.shown in Fig. 5, these saturated current values can be measured by predetermining the characteristic b , the characteristic c or the characteristic d as the exciting voltage characteristic to the excess air rat. If the exciting voltage characteristic is b , measurement of the saturated current near A 0.5 andA 1.5 is difficult. This problem is solved by con verting the exciting characteristic into c , or preferably d As internal resistance of the zirconia solid electrolyte increases when the temperature decreases, the region of the V I characteristic a becomes narrow.Therefore, measurement of the saturated current tends to be difficult at the low temperature. This tendency is the most noticeable with the characteristic b . To solve the problem, the zirconia solid electrolyte must be heated to high temperature by a heater. It is recommended to heat the zirconia solid electrolyte with the heater to a temperature not less than approximately 750 C, 7000C and 670 C when the exciting voltage characteristic is b , c and d respectively.Taking the power consumption and the durability of the heater into account, the characteristic c is preferred to b and d is preferred to c These exciting voltage characteristics b c and d correspond to the characteristics b c and d shown in Fig. 2 respectively. Fig. 6 shows one embocim,ent of the prose in venton with which the exciting voltage characteristic tz shown in Fig. 2 is obtained, wherein E rasistor 3 and resistor 34 are inserted between the source 28 and the point X of the configuratic give by Fig.3. As a result, a potential difference rIp is produced in the resistor 34 part in accordance with the output voltage Eo changed by the pumping current Ip and the potential difference between the first electrode 22 and the second electrode 23, or the exciting voltage between two electrodes, is changed by this value.If the resistance r of the resistor 34 is predetermined to be close to the internal resistance bf the zirconia solid electrolyte 20, the output voltageEo of the A F sensor is less influenced by the temperature of the exhaust gas. As the potential difference rIp is changed not only by the resistance r but also by the pumping current Ip, it is automatically changed by the excess air rate A and the potential difference between two electrodes or the exciting voltage VE shows the characteristic c shown in Fig. 2. With this constitution, temperature dependency of the oxygen ion conduction rate in the zirconia solid electrolyte is improved. An er..odiment other than shown in Fig. 6 is shoB . 1. 7. An amplifier 280 has the size unc tc as the source 28 in Fig. 3. With tis circuit configuration, even if the temperature Tg te zirconia solid electrolyte 20 is 650 C, the output characteristic is identical to that of the solid line in Fig. 4. Therefore, this configuration is also effective as a countermeasure against the influence of temperature. Fig. 8 shows one embodiment of the present invention with which the exciting voltage characteristic d shown in Fig. 2 is obtained, wherein basically an amplifier 281 for addition and subtraction, a dualoutput comparator 41 and switches 42 and 43 are added to the configuration of Fig. 7. The switches 42 and 43 are driven by output signals V and V of the dualoutput comparator 41 which are reversed at the instance of the pumping current Ip 0 and a voltage v is supplied to a side input terminal and a side input terminal of the amplifier 281 for addition and subtraction alternately. Taking Vw as a potential at the side input terminal part Z of the amplifier 25 and i 2s the current in the resistor 33 part.EMI18.1 With such circuit configuration, the exciting vc i acG cracteristic between two electrodes as given nv tr characteristic d in Fig. 2 can be obtained.Therefore, it is easily understood from the V I characteristics shown in Fig. 5 that this exciting voltage characteristic d is suitable for detecting the saturated pumping current Ip corresponding to each excess air rate A. One example of the obtained result measured by the circuit configuration of Fig. 8 is shown in Fi.g 9. This diagram shows the measured result when v 0.15 V. In this case, as shown in the diagram, the output voltage Eo changes in step by 2 V at the theoretical A F, X 1. The stepping change of 2V is not a substantial problem in this embodiment and, if 2V is added to the characteristic shown in Fig. 2 in the region ofX 51, the characteristic of the exciting voltage Eo becomes linear in all regions. With the constitution of this embodiment, an effect can be obtained which limits the decline of accuracy caused by the deterioration of the electrode Increase o interfacial resistance . It is to be noted that, although the form of the zirconia solid electrolyte of the detecting part of the A F sensor is descriec as tubular in the above aescription, it is not to be construed as limiting the scope of the invention. I. other words any structure such as a flat plate tyre shown in Fig. 10 with which the ambient atmosphere can be introduced into the first electrode part may be accepted. Fig. 10 shows a detecting part, wherein a zirconia solid electrolyte is a flat plate and a diffusion resistant body consists of, for instance, one hole. In Fig. 10, the same reference numerals as inFig. 1 denote the parts which have the same function as in Fig. 1. The atmospheric air is introduced into the first electrode 22 part through a passage 32. Residual oxygen and unburnt gas in the exhaust gas flow into the second electrode 23 part in a diffusion chamber 31 by diffusion through a tubular diffusionresistant body 24. The zirconia solid electrolyte 20 is heated and controlled to a high temperature for instance 600 C at which the oxygen ion conduc tion rate is high. Effect of the Invention With the present invention, an A F senso hich can detect A F in a wide range o three conditions, a rich region, theoretical A F and a lean region, it a simple constitution and hign accuracy can be provided.