# Chemical derivatives of GHL Cu

## Claims
Patentansprüche für folgende Vertragsstaaten BE, CH, DE, FR, GB, IT, LI, LU, NL, SE

## Description
The present invention relates to chemical derivatives of glycyl L histidyl L lysine copper II GHL Cu in general, and more specifically, to GHL Cu derivatives exhibiting biological activities similar to those of human GHL Cu. GHL Cu is a human blood factor present in trace amounts and thought to be involved in transport and cellular uptake of copper Pickart, L., The healing of many types of traumatic tissue damage and of aging associated with degenerative conditions is delayed by the excessive production of superoxide anion. After wounding or traumatic tissue injury, cells of the immune system invade the damaged area and secrete copious quantities of toxic oxygen radicals to kill invading bacteria. Often, in cases of impaired healing, the production of superoxide anion further damages tissues and brings in a new influx of immunological cells, thereby creating a vicious circle of damaging events which can greatly delay the sequence within the normal healing process. To obtain proper healing of damaged tissue, it is generally necessary to terminate the production of superoxide anion in the afflicted area. GHL Cu possesses significant superoxide dismutase activity, allowing it to detoxify the tissue damaging superoxide anion. Further, GHL Cu also inhibits platelet aggregation and the production of the vasoconstrictive and the thrombosis inducing hormone, thromboxane. GHL Cu accelerates the healing of wounds in rats, mice and pigs and possesses anti inflammatory actions in standard rat inflammation models. However, although valuable, GHL Cu is susceptible to breakdown by proteolytic enzymes called carboxypeptidases and is poorly soluble in fatty tissues. Accordingly, it is a primary object of the present invention to improve the resistance of GHL Cu to breakdown and further to increase the fatty tissue solubility of GHL Cu, resulting in a more useful form of the molecule. Briefly stated, the present invention discloses various derivatives of GHL Cu which possess greater resistance to proteolytic enzyme breakdown and which can be tailored to increase the fat solubility thereof. The derivatives have the general formula glycyl L histidyl L lysyl R copper II , wherein R is selected from the group consisting of an NH₂ moiety and an OR residue having from 1 to 12 carbon atoms. In addition the present invention discloses the use of the above derivative of GHL Cu for preparing a medicament for enhancing the wound healing process and or inhibiting the production of thromboxane by platelets. Other aspects of the present invention will become evident upon reference to the following detailed description. As noted above, GHL Cu possesses significant superoxide dismutase activity, allowing it to detoxify tissue damaging superoxide anion. However, GHL Cu is susceptible to breakdown by proteolytic enzymes and is poorly soluble in fatty tissues. However, as described herein, various derivatives of GHL Cu retain their superoxide dismutase activity while exhibiting greater resistance to proteolytic breakdown. Further, these derivatives increase the fatty tissue solubility of GHL Cu, resulting in a form of the molecule which is more useful in the formation of pharmaceutical creams and gels. The derivatives of the present invention may be prepared by esterification, by the removal of a water molecule, or the addition of a group either an alcohol such as octanol, methanol, or benzyl alcohol or NH₃ to the carboxylic acid terminus or GHL, resulting in the formation of the more lipophilic derivative. This increases the fat solubility by 1 removal of the electric charge associated with the carboxylic acid group and 2 the introduction of hydrophilic groups into the molecule. The overall chemical reaction in this transformation may be characterized as The overall reaction to form the more lipophilic derivatives of GHL Cu may be characterized Due to the complex interaction of various processes in the healing of wounds, a superior method for enhancing the wound healing process should include the proper maintenance of each of these processes without evoking an antigenic response. The present application exemplifies such a method, and further provides other related advantages. The present invention utilizes a therapeutically effective amount of a composition consisting essentially of derivatives of GHL Cu to enhance the wound healing process in animals. The derivatives of GHL Cu described herein possess significant superoxide dismutase activity at physiological pH, and like other superoxide dismutases, have anti inflammatory and wound healing properties. The derivatives of GHL Cu also inhibit the production of the vasoconstrictive and thrombosis inducing hormone, thromboxane. Moreover, the derivatives of GHL Cu described herein have advantages over GHL Cu. In particular, the derivatives are more lipophilic than GHL Cu, resulting in greater solubility in creams and gels useful in the treatment of wounds. Furthermore, the derivatives of the present invention display a greater resistance to proteolytic breakdown by the enzyme carboxypeptidase, allowing sustained activity of the derivatives for more effective wound healing. To summarize the examples which follow, Example I illustrates the synthesis of glycyl L histidyl L lysyl benzyl ester copper II . Example II describes the preparation of glycyl L histidyl L lysyl amide copper II . Example III demonstrates the synthesis of glycyl L histidyl L lysyl n octyl ester copper II . Example IV describes the preparation of glycyl L histidyl L lysyl methyl ester copper II . Example V demonstrates the superoxide dismutase activity of GHL Cu derivatives. Example VI illustrates A the wound healing activity and B the anti thromboxane activity of GHL Cu derivatives. Example VII demonstrates the resistance to proteolytic enzyme breakdown of GHL Cu derivatives. The following examples are offered by way of illustration and not by way of limitation. N The glycyl L histidyl L lysyl benzyl ester was dissolved in water with equimolar copper acetate added. The pH was raised to neutrality with sodium hydroxide. The solution was centrifuged at 20,000 g for 1 hour at 3 C to remove poorly water soluble material. The supernatant was lyophilized to obtain glycyl L histidyl L lysyl benzyl ester copper II . N The amide was dissolved in 50 trifluoroacetic acid in dichloromethane for 30 minutes to form N The final product, glycyl L histidyl L lysyl amide, was dissolved in water and an equimolar amount of copper acetate added. The pH was raised to neutrality with sodium hydroxide. The solution was centrifuged at 20,000 g for 1 hour at 3 C to remove poorly water soluble material. The supernatant was lyophilized to obtain glycyl L histidyl L lysyl amide copper II . A mixture of N The product was dissolved in 50 trifluoroacetic acid in dichloromethane for 30 minutes, then evaporated, forming n octyl N The resultant n octyl ester of glycyl L histidyl L lysine was converted to the copper complex by the addition of an equimolar quantity of copper diacetate. The pH was raised to neutrality with sodium hydroxide. The solution was centrifuged at 20,000 g for 1 hour at 3 C to remove poorly water soluble material. The supernatant was lyophilized to obtain glycyl L histidyl L lysyl n octyl ester copper II . N All of the more lipophilic derivatives of GHL Cu possessed superoxide dismutase activities similar to biological GHL Cu when assayed using the auto oxidation of 6 hydroxydopamine method of Heikkla and Cabbat In mice, incision wounds on the flanks six 1.5 cm wounds per animal were swabbed daily with either a solution containing GHL Cu 100 micrograms per mL in phosphate buffered saline PBS or PBS alone 6 animals each group . After 5 days, the wounds were scored 1.0 for complete closure, 0.5 for partial closure, and 0.0 for non closure. These results demonstrate that application of the GHL Cu derivatives of the present invention to a wound significantly enhances the wound healing process. Dog platelets in plasma were aggregated with ADP and collagen. Production of thromboxane B₂ was measured by radioimmunoassay New England Nuclear Thromboxane Assay Kit, Boston, MA . These results demonstrate that the GHL Cu derivatives of the present invention significantly inhibit the production of thromboxane by platelets, thereby allowing an optimal flow of blood to the wound area. All of the more lipophilic peptide analogs of GHL possessed more resistance to proteolytic breakdown by the enzyme carboxypeptidase when assayed using the method of Schlesinger et al., Example VII demonstrates the resistance of GHL and GHL derivatives to proteolytic breakdown, In the body, GHL is in equilibrium with GHL Cu due to dynamic copper binding and exchange reactions. In its metal free form, GHL becomes sensitive to proteolytic breakdown and inactivation by the enzyme carboxypeptidase. As GHL is degraded, the amount of GHL Cu is decreased. The derivatives of GHL also bind to copper, and in the body, the metal free forms would exist in equilibrium with the copper complexed forms. Degradation of the metal free forms would decrease the amount of complexed forms available. Example VII demonstrates that the metal free derivatives of GHL are less susceptible to proteolytic breakdown than metal free GHL. One explanation for this phenomenon is that the R group attached to the carboxy terminus of GHL alters the molecular confirmation, thus preventing proper enzymatic recognition of the GHL derivatives by proteolytic enzymes. Accordingly, the From the foregoing, it will be appreciated that, although specific embodiments of the invention have been described herein for purposes of illustration, various modifications may be made without deviating from the spirit and scope of the invention. Accordingly, the invention is not to be limited except as by the appended claims.