# Wound dressing.

## Abstract
An occlusive wound dressing comprising a flexible closed cell polyurethane foam containing from about 5 to about 50 by weight of the foam of one or more water dispersible, water swellable, and or water absorbing agents. A pressure sensitive adhesive is applied or laminated to one surface of the foam in a continuous layer or discontinuous pattern. A polymeric film or skin is laminated or formed on the opposite surface of the foam.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. An occlusive wound dressing comprising a flexible closed cell polyurethane foam having distributed therein from about 5 to about 50 by weight of said foam of one or more water dispersible, water swellable and or water absorbing agents, a thin polymeric film or a skin laminated to one surface of said foam, and a pressure sensitive adhesive laminated to the other surface of said foam. 2. A wound dressing according to Claim 1 wherein the pressure sensitive adhesive is laminated to the surface of said foam in a discontinuous pattern. 3. The dressing of Claim 2 wherein said discontinuous pattern of pressure sensitive adhesive covers from about 25 to about 75 of the surface of the foam. 4. The dressing of Claim 1 wherein said water dispersible, water swellable, and or water absorbing agents are one or more selected from the group consisting of sodium carboxymethylcellulose, calcium carboxylmethylcellulose, pectin, gelatin, guar gum, locust bean gum, collagen, karaya, water insoluble cross linked sodium carboxymethylcellulose, substantially water insoluble starch acrylonitrile graft copolymer, and substantially water insoluble cross linked dextran. 5. The dressing of Claim 4 wherein said. foam is from about 10 to about 100 mils in thickness, said polymeric film or skin is from about 0.5 to about 3 mils in thickness, and said pressure sensitive a adhesive is from about 1 to about 10 mils in thickness. 6. The dressing of Claim 5 wherein said foam has a density of from about 10 pounds cubic foot to about 50 pounds cubic foot. 7. The dressing of Claim 6 wherein said foam is from about 20 to about 30 mils thickness, said pressure sensitive adhesive is from about 2 to about 4 mils thickness, and said polymeric film or skin is about 1 mils thickness. 8. The dressing of Claim 7 wherein said pressure sensitive adhesive is applied to said foam in a strip pattern and covers about 65 of the surface area of said foam. 9. An occlusive wound dressing consisting essentially of a flexible closed cell polyurethane foam of from about 10 to about 100 mils thickness and a density of from about 10 pounds cubic foot to about 50 pounds cubic foot having distributed therein from about 10 to about 50 by weight of the foam of one or more agents selected from the group consisting of pectin, gelatin, and sodium carboxymethylcellulose, a polyurethane film or skin of from about 0.5 to about 3 mils thickness laminated to one surface of said foam, and a pressure sensitive adhesive of from about 1 to about 10 mils thickness laminated to the other surface of said foam in a discontinuous pattern covering from about 25 to about 75 of the surface of said foam. 10. The dressing of Claim 9 wherein said foam is from about 20 to about 30 mils thickness, said pressure sensitive adhesive is from about 2 to about 4 mils thickness, and said polyurethane film or skin is about 1 mils thickness. 11. The dressing of ClaimlO wherein said pectin, gelatin, and sodium carboxymethylcellulose are present in said foam at about equal amounts on a weight percent basis. 12. The dressing of Claim 11 wherein said foam contains about 30 by weight of said mixture of pectin, gelatin, and sodium carboxymethylcellulose. 13. The dressing of Claim 12 wherein said pressure sensitive adhesive is an acrylic adhesive 14. The dressing of Claim 12 wherein said pressure sensitive adhesive is a blend of low and medium molecular weight polyisobutylenes, sodium carboxymethylcellulose, gelatin, terpene resin, and mineral oil. 15. The dressing of Claim 12 wherein said pressure sensitive adhesive is applied to said foam in a strip pattern and covers about 65 of the surface area of said foam. 16. An occlusive wound dressing consisting essentially of a flexible closed cell polyurethane foam of from about 10 to about 100 mils thickness and a density of from about 10 pounds cubic foot to about 50 pounds cubic foot having distributed therein from about 5 to about 22 by weight of said foam of a water insoluble starch acrylonitrile graft copolymer, a polyurethane film or skin of from about 0.5 to about 3 mils thickness laminated to one surface of said foam, and a pressure sensitive adhesive of from about 1 to about 10 mils thickness laminated to the other surface of said foam in a discontinuous pattern covering from about 25 to about 75 of the surface of said foam. 17. The dressing of Claim 16 wherein said foam is from about 20 to about 30 mils thickness, said pressure sensitive adhesive is from about 2 to about 4 mils thickness, and said polyurethane film or skin is about 1 mils thickness. 18. The dressing of Claim 17wherein said foam contains about 12 by weight of a water insoluble starch acrylonitrile graft copolymer. 19. The dressing of Claim 18wherein said pressure sensitive adhesive is an acrylic adhesive. 20. The dressing of Claim 18 wherein said pressure sensitive adhesive is a blend of low and medium molecular weight polyisobutylenes, sodium carbosyethylcelluloset gelatin, terpene resin, and mineral oil. 21. The dressing of Claim 18 wherein said pressure sensitive adhesive is applied to said foam in a strip pattern and covers about 65 of the surface area of said foam. 22. An occlusive wound dressing consisting essentially of a flexible closed cell polyurethane foam of from about 10 to about 100 mils thickness and a density of from about 10 pounds cubic foot to about 50 pounds cubic foot and having distributed therein from about 12 to about 48 by weight of said foam of a mixture of from about 2 parts by weight of one or more of pectin, gelatin, and sodium carboxymethylcellulose and about 1 part by weight of a water insoluble starch acrylonitrile graft copolymer, a poly polyurethane film or skin of from about 0.5 to about 3 mils thickness laminated to one surface of said foam, and a pressure sensitive microporous adhesive of from about 1 to about 10 mils thickness laminated to the other surface of said foam in a discontinuous pattern covering from about 25 to about 75 the surface of said foam. 23. The dressing of. Claim 22 wherein said foam is about 20 to about 30 mils thickness, said pressure sensitive microporous adhesive is from about 2 to about 4 mils thickness, and said polyurethane film or skin is about 1 mils thickness. 24. The dressing of Claim 23 wherein said foam contains about 5 by weight of pectin, about 5 by weight of gelatin, about 5 by weight of sodium carboxymethylcellulose, and about 7.5 by weight of a water insoluble starch acrylonitrile graft copolymer. 25. The dressing of Claim 24 wherein said pressure sensitive adhesive is an acrylic adhesive. 26. The dressing of Claim 24 wherein said pressure sensitive adhesive is a blend of low and medium molecular weight polyisobutylenes, sdoium carboxymethylcellulose, gelatin, terpene resin, and mineral oil. 27. An occlusive wound dressing according toClaim 1 comprising a flexible closed cell polyurethane foam having distributed therein from about 5 to about 50 by weight of said foam of one or more water dispersible, water swellable and or water absorbing agents, a thin polymeric film or a skin laminated to one surface of said foam, and a pressure sensitive microporous adhesive laminated to the other surface of said foam as a continuous layer. 28. The dressing of Claim 27 wherein said microporous adhesive is an acrylic adhesive. 29. The dressing of Claim27 wherein said microporous adhesive comprises a mixture of a rubber elastomer, one or more water dispersible agents, a tackifier, a plasticizer, and other optional ingredients. 30. The dressing of Claim29 wherein said elastomer is present at from about 35 to about 50 by weight of said adhesive, said water dispersible agent or agents are present at from about 30 to about 60 by weight of said adhesive, and said tackifier, plasticizer, and other optional ingredients combined are present at up to 35 by weight of said adhesive. 31. The dressing of Claim 30 wherein said elastomer is a mixture of low and medium molecular weight polyisobutylenes, said water dispersible agent is a mixture of sodium carboxymethylcellulose and gelatin, the tackifier is a terpene resin, and the plasticizer is mineral oil. 32. The dressing of Claim 27 wherein said foam has a density of from about 10 pounds cubic foot to about 50 pounds cubic foot. 33. An occlusive wound dressing consisting essentially of a flexible closed cell polyurethane foam of from about 10 to about 100 mils thickness and a density of from about 10 pounds cubic foot to about 50 pounds cubic foot having distributed therein from about 10 to about 50 by weight of the foam of one or more agents selected from the group consisting of pectin, gelatin, and sodium carboxymethylcellulose, a polyurethane film or skin of from about 0.5 to about 3 mils thickness laminated to one surface of said foam, and a pressure sensitive microporous adhesive of from about 1 to about 10 mils thickness laminated to the other surface of said foam as a continuous layer. 34. The dressing of Claim 33 wherein said foam is from about 20 to about 30 mils thickness, said pressure sensitive microporous adhesive is from about 2 to about 4 mils thickness, and said polyurethane film or skin is about 1 mils thickness. 35. The dressing of Claim 34 wherein said pectin, gelatin, and sodium carboxymethylcellulose are present in said foam at about equal amounts on a weight percent basis. 36. The dressing of Claim 35 wherein said foam contains about 30 by weight of said mixture of pectin, gelatin, and sodium carboxymethylcellulose. 37. The dressing of Claim 36 wherein said pressure sensitive microporous adhesive is an acrylic adhesive. 38. The dressing of Claim 36 wherein said pressure sensitive microporous adhesive is a blend of low and medium molecular weight polyisobutylenes, sodium carboxymethylcellulose, gelatin, terpene resin, and mineral oil. 39. An occlusive wound dressing consisting essentially of a flexible closed cell polyurethane foam of from about 10 to about 100 mils thickness and a density of from about 10 pounds cubic foot to about 50 pounds cubic foot having distributed therein from about 5 to about 22 by weight of said foam of a water insoluble starch acrylonitrile graft copolymer, a polyurethane film or skin of from about 0.5 to about 3 mils thickness laminated to one surface of said foam, and a pressure sensitive microporous adhesive of from about 1 to about 10 mils thickness laminated to the other surface of said foam as a continuous layer. 40. The dressing of Claim 39 wherein said foam is from about 20 to about 30 mils thickness, said pressure sensitive microporous adhesive is from about 2 to about 4 mils thickness, and said polyurethane film or skin is about 1 mils thickness 41. The dressing of Claim 40 wherein said foam contains about 12 by weight of a water insoluble starch acrylonitrile graft copolymer. 42. The dressing of Claim 41 wherein said pressure sensitive microporous adhesive is an acrylic adhesive. 43. The dressing of Claim 41 wherein said pressure sensitive microporous adhesive is a blend of low and medium molecular weight polyisobutylenes, sodium carboxymethylcellulose, gelatin, terpene resin, and mineral oil. 44. An occlusive wound dressing consisting essentially of a flexible closed cell polyurethane foam of from about 10 to about 100 mils thickness and a density of from about 10 pounds cubic foot to about 50 pounds cubic foot and having distributed therein from about 12 to about 48 by weight of said foam of a mixture of from about 2 parts by weight of one or more of pectin, gelatin, and sodium carboxymethylcellulose and about 1 part by weight of a water insoluble starch acrylonitrile graft copolymer, a polyurethane film or skin of from about 0.5 to about 3 mils thickness laminated to one surface of said foam, and a pressure sensitive microporous adhesive of from about 1 to about 10 mils thickness laminated to the other surface of said foam as a continuous layer. 45. The dressing of Claim 44 wherein said foam is about 20 to about 30 mils thickness, said pressure sensitive microporous adhesive is from about 2 to about 4 mils thickness, and said polyurethane film or skin is about 1 mils thickness. 46. The dressing of Claim 45 wherein said foam contains about 5 by weight of pectin, about 5 by weight of gelatin, about 5 by weight of sodium carboxymethylcellulose, and about 7.5 by. weight of a water insoluble starch acrylonitrile graft copolymer. 47. The dressing of Claim 46 wherein said pressure sensitive microporous adhesive is an acrylic adhesive. 48. The dressing of Claim 46 wherein said pressure sensitive microporous adhesive is a blend of low and medium molecular weight polyisobutylenes, sodium carboxymethylcellulose, gelatin, terpene resin, and mineral oil.

## Description
WOUND DRESSING Kelly et al. in British Patent l,550,614 disclose an absorbent material suitable for incorporation in sanitary towels, tampons and napkins comprising an absorbent starch derivative, preferably a cross linked starch, distributed in a flexible resilient polyurethane foam. W. R. Grace Co. in British Patent 1,538,809 disclose a hydrophilic polyurethane foam in which a cross linked carboxymethylcellulose and other water soluble or water dispersible materials such as sodium carboxymethylcellulose are incorporated. Chen in U.S. Patent 3,972,328, Steer et al.in U.S. Patent 4,341,207, and Pawelchak et al. inU.S. Patent 4,538,603 and European PatentApplication 92,999 disclose multi layered dressings including an intermediate layer of semi open cell polyurethane foam and an adhesive layer which contacts the wound and surrounding skin. Lindquist et al. in U.S. Patent 3,665,918 disclose a surgical tape or drape consisting of compressed polyurethane foam coated with a microporous pressure sensitive adhesive. Richter et al. in U.S. Patent 3,566,871 disclose a hydrophilic polyurethane sponge for medical use in which the sponge pores contain a surfactant coating. McRae et al. in U.S. Patent 3,978,855 disclose a polyurethane foam surgical dressing in which a surface of the foam is compressed and wherein the foam also contains a wetting agent. Lock in U.S. Patent 3,975,567 discloses a polyurethane foam surgical dressing in which one surface is rendered lyophilic by applying pressure and heat. Lazlo in European PatentApplication 41,934 disclose a wound exudate absorbent product comprising a polyurethane foam having a water insoluble hydrophilic polymer such as cross linked dextran incorporated within a portion of the foam cells.Marsan in U.St Patent 3,713,445 discloses an ostomy sealing ring consisting of an open cell polyurethane or polyethylene foam containing a gelatinous material such as karaya powder and glycerine. Various polyurethane foam dressings are disclosed by Robins inU.S. Patent ,ll3,568, Bentov in U.S. Patent 3,157,178, Wheeler in U. S. Patent 3,648,692, andNowakowski in U.S. Patent 3,949,742. This invention is directed to an occlusive wound dressing which includes a flexible closed cell polyurethane foam layer containing within the foam network from about 5 to about 50 by weight of the foam of one or more water dispersible, water swellable, and or water absorbing agents. A pressure sensitive adhesive is applied or laminated onto one surface of the foam. In use, this adhesive surface contacts the wound site and the surrounding skin. A polymeric film may be laminated to or a skin may be formed on the opposite surface of the foam so as to protect the dressing. Brief Description Of The Drawings Figure 1 is an overall view of a preferred embodiment of the wound dressing of this invention greatly enlarged including a sheet of release paper shown partially peeled away from the adhesive layers. Figure 2 is a front view along line 2 2 ofFigure 1 without the release paper. Figure 3 is an overall view of another preferred embodiment of the wound dressing of this invention greatly enlarged including a sheet of release paper shown partially peeled away from the adhesive layer Figure 4 is a front view along line 4 4 ofFigure 3 without the release paper. The occlusive dressing of this invention as shown in figures 1, 2, 3 and 4 includes a layer of closed cell polyurethane foam 12 and 12 . This foam layer contains from about 5 to about 50 by weight of the foam of one or more water dispersible or water swellable agents. A pressure sensitive adhesive 14 or 14 is coated or laminated to one surface of foam layer 12 or 12 . The adhesive 14 is applied as a discontinuous pattern on the surface of the foam so that portions of the foam surface remain uncovered. Preferably, the adhesive 14 is applied in the form of strips which may extend horizontally, vertically, or diagonally across the surface of the foam. Alternatively, adhesive 14 may be applied as a pattern of dots or squares across the surface of the foam. Adhesive 14 preferably covers from about 25 to about 75 most preferably about 65 , of the surface area of foam layer 12.In use, the wound dressing is applied to the body by pressing so that adhesive layer 14 contacts the wound site and surrounding skin. The discontinuous pattern of pressure sensitive adhesive 14 permits the wound dressing to be firmly adhered to the body but enables the wound exudate to contact the foam wherein it reacts with the water dispersible, water swellable, and or water absorbing agents within the foam network. The pressure sensitive microporous adhesive layer 14 is coated or laminated to one surface of foam layer 12 as a continuous layer so that the entire surface of the foam is covered. The porosity of adhesive layer 14 enables wound exudate to migrate through this layer to contact the foam where it reacts with the water dispersible, water swellable, and or water absorbing agents within the foam network. The top surface of foam layer 12 or 12 when viewing the dressing placed on a wound is sealed so that soil and water can not penetrate into the dressing. A thin film 16 or 16 of polymeric material such as polyurethane can be laminated to the top surface of foam layer 12 or 12 or the top surface of the foam can be treated with heat and or pressure to flame laminate skin 16 or 16 on the surface of the foam. In another procedure, the skin 16 or 16 is cast and cured on a release liner and then the foam layer 12 or 12 is cast and formed directly on the skin. The foam layer 12 or 12 is a flexible closed cell polyurethane foam formed from a polyester or a polyether and having one or more water dispersible, water swellable, and or water absorbing agents distributed throughout the structure of the foam.Preferably, the foam should be of a density of from about 10 pounds cubic foot to about 50 pounds cubic foot. Suitable water dispersible, water swellable, and or water absorbing agents include one or more of sodium or calcium carboxymethylcellulose, pectin, gelatin, guar gum, locust bean gum, collagen, gum karaya, water insoluble cross linked sodium carboxymethylcellulose such as that commercially available under the trademark Aqualon or that described in U.S. Patent 3,589,364 and available commercially from the Buckeye CelluloseCorp., substantially water insoluble starch acrylonitrile graft copolymer such as that described in U.S. Patent 3,661,815 and that available commercially under the trademark WaterLock from the Grain Processing Corp., and substantially water insoluble cross linked dextran such as that commercially available under the trademark Sephadex. Preferred water dispersible, water swellable, and or water absorbing agents are as follows. One or more of pectin, gelatin, and sodium carboxylmethylcellulose together at from about 10 to about 50 by weight of the foam and particularly an equal weight equal weight blend of pectin, gelatin, and sodium carboxymethylcellulose together at about 30 by weight of the foam. A water insoluble starch acrylonitrile graft co polymer at from about 5 to about 22 by weight of the foam and most preferably at about 12 by weight of the foam. A mixture of from about 2 parts by weight of one or more of pectin, gelatin, and sodium carboxymethylcellulose, most preferably an equal weight blend of pectin, gelatin and sodium carboxymethylcellulose, and about one part by weight of a water insoluble starch acrylonitrile graft copolymer.This mixture is present at from about 12 to about 48 by weight of the foam with the most preferred mixture being about 5 pectin, about 5 gelatin, about 5 sodium carboxymethylcellulose, and about 7.5 of a water insoluble starch acrylonitrile graft copolymer by weight of the foam. In addition, small amounts, i.e., in toto less than about 5 by weight of the foam layer, of other agents may be included with the water dispersible, water swellable and or water absorbing agents. For example, a pharmaceutically active ingredient such as an antibiotic or antimicrobial agent, an antiseptic agent such as povidone iodine, or an anti inflammatory agent such as hydrocortisone or triamcinolone acetonide may be included. Other materials such as a deodorant perfume agent, or antioxidant could be included. Also, substances conventionally employed in the manufacture of polyurethane foams to increase strength or flexibility can be included as long as they are safe and non irritating to the human skin. The flexible closed cell polyurethane foam 12 or 12 containing the water dispersible, water swellable and or water absorbing agents plus any additional ingredients as described above can be prepared by either the conventional one shot process or the conventional prepolymer process. In the one shot process, a polyol, isocyanate and water are reacted substantially simultaneously with the water dispersible, water swellable and or water absorbing agents and other ingredients suspended in the mixed reactants. In the prepolymer process, the polyol is reacted with enough polyisocyanate to form a prepolymer with isocyanate end groups plus excess isocyanate. This prepolymer mixture is then reacted with a blowing agent and a slurry of the water dispersible, water swellable, and or water absorbing agents and other ingredients in a suitable solvent.After mixing, the resin can be dispersed by several methods. Typical methods are as an expandable liquid, as a spray of small droplets of mixed resin which adhere to surfaces and foam on these surfaces, or as a froth into which some gas has been mixed prior to exiting from the mixing head which causes the liquid mixture to froth as its pressure is decreased to atmospheric pressure. Additional materials may be used in order to form the polyurethane. For example, catalysts such as the tin catalysts, i.e., stannous octoate or dibutyl tin dilaurate, and an amine catalyst such as dimethylaminoethyl ether may be used to promote the reaction of the polyol and the isocyanate. A chemical blowing agent may be added which releases a gas due to the chemical decomposition of such blowing agent as a consequence of the heat of reaction or the external raising of the reaction temperature.Also, water may be used as a blowing agent since the isocyanate when reacted with water release carbon dioxide. Typical polyurethane foam processes are described in more detail in Kirk Othmer, Enc. ofChem. Tech., 3rd, 1979 , Vol. 11, p 87 89 andVol. 23, p 576 608, British Patents 1,550,614 and 1,538,809 noted above, and in U.S. Patents 3,004,934, 3,075,930, 3,441,523, 3,586,648, 3,753,933, 4,156,759, 4,197,372, 4,327,195, and 4,374,208. In the preferred process the polyurethane foam 12 or 12 containing the water dispersible, water swellable, and or water absorbing agents and any other optional agents is cast onto a polymeric film 16 or 16 which had previously been cast on silicone coated release paper. Alternatively, one surface of the foam 12 or 12 can be treated with heat and pressure to form skin 16 or 16 . Pressure sensitive adhesive 14 may be of an acrylic based type for example a copolymer of isooctyl acrylate and acrylic acid as described byUlrich in U.S. Patent RE 24,906 or a microporous acrylic adhesive as described by Copeland in U.S.Patent 3,121,021. Alternatively, pressure sensitive adhesive 14 may be a mixture of a rubbery elastomer preferably a mixture of low and medium molecular weight polyisobutylenes, one or more water dispersable agents preferably sodium carboxymethylcellulose and gelatin, a tackifier preferably a terpene resin, and a plasticizer preferably mineral oil as taught by Chen in U.S.Patent 3,972,328 or such a pressure sensitive adhesive in a microporous form as taught by Cilento et al in U.S. Patent 4,427,737. Pressure sensitive adhesive 14 may be coated directly to foam layer 12 in the desired discontinuous pattern. Preferably, adhesive 14 is cast onto a sheet of silicone coated release paper 18 in the desired pattern and this coated sheet of paper is laminated adhesive 14 contacting the foam with pressure to the surface of foam 12 opposite polymeric film or skin 16. The resulting product is cut to the desired shape and packaged preferably with the release paper covering adhesive 14. At the time of use, the release paper is peeled away as shown in figure 1 and the wound dressing is applied to skin. If desired, the edges of the dressing may be more firmly attached to the body and prevented from curling by applying strips of a microporous adhesive tape. Pressure sensitive microporous adhesive 14 may be of an acrylic type formed as taught byCopeland in U.S. Patent 3,121,021. Suitable acrylics include acrylic esters particularly those with four or more carbon atoms in the alcohol component such as n butyl acrylate and or 2 ethylhexyl acrylate. The acrylic adhesive may contain other comonomers such as vinyl acetate, acrylonitrile, styrene, ethyl acrylate, methyl methacrylate, our, Funsaturated carboxylic acids, esters, or half esters of unsaturated dicarboxylic acids. Terpolymers are also often used for this purpose. A discussion of pressure sensitive acrylic adhesives appears in Handbook of Adhesive, 2nd Edition, Skeist, pages 548 552. Pressure sensitive microporous adhesive 14 may be formed from a mixture of a rubbery elastomer, one or more water dispersible agents, a tackifier, a plasticizer, and other optional ingredients. As taught by Cilento et al., in U.S.Patent 4,427,737, this microporous adhesive preferably contains of from about 35 to about 50 by weight of rubbery elastomer, from about 30 to about 60 by weight of water dispersible agents, and up to 35 by weight of one or more tackifiers, plasticizers, antioxidants and preservatives. Preferably, the elastomer is a mixture of low and medium molecular weight polyisobutylenes, the water dispersible agent is a mixture of a sodium carboxymethylcellulose and gelatin, the tackifier is a terpene resin, and the plasticizer is mineral oil. The acrylic or rubbery elastomer adhesive can be made microporous by employing the solvent evaporation technique described by Copeland in 3,121,021 and Cilento et al. in 4,427,737. In this procedure, the solids are dispersed in a solvent such as heptane to form a slurry. The slurry is cast onto silicone coated release paper to the desired thickness and the material is then passed through a multi zone drying tunnel so as to evaporate off the solvent. Alternatively, the adhesive can be made microporous by forming an aqueous emulsion of the solids, adding a surfactant or a viscosity building agent such as sodium carboxymethylcellulose and incorporating air or other gaseous bubbles into the emulsion. This emulsion is then cast onto silicone coated release paper and dried by passing through a multi zone drying tunnel. The pressure sensitive microporous adhesive layer including the silicone coated release paper is laminated adhesive 14 contacting the foam with pressure to the surface of foam 12 opposite polymeric film or skin 16 . The resulting product is cut to the desired shape and packaged preferably with the release paper covering adhesive 14 . At the time of use, the release paper is peeled away as shown in figure 3 and tbe wound dressing is applied to skin. If desired, the edges of the dressing may be more firmly attached to the body and prevented from curling by applying stripes of a microporous adhesive tape. Preferably, foam layer 12 or 12 will be from about 10 to about 100 mils thickness, most preferably from about 20 to about 30 mils thickness, pressure sensitive adhesive 14 or 14 will be from about 1 to about 10 mils thickness, most preferably from about 2 to about 4 mils thickness, and skin or polymeric film layer 16 or 16 will be from about 0.5 to about 3 mils thickness, most preferably about 1 mils thickness. Example 1 Polyurethane is cast onto a sheet of silicone release paper to give a film of about 1 mils thickness. A flexible closed cell polyurethane foam is prepared by reacting appropriate amounts of a polyether polyol such as poly oxyethylene glycol, an isocyanate such as 4,4 methylenebis phenyl isocyanate , catalysts such as stannous octoate and dimethylaminoethyl ether and water blowing agent with sufficient starch acrylonitrile graft copolymer J 500 Water Lock . The starch acrylonitrile graft copolymer is dispersed in the polyol.The other ingredients are mixed in a suitable vessel.The two mixtures are then intermixed at high speed in an in line mixer, poured onto the polyurethane film, and allowed to cure to give a flexible closed cell polyurethane foam of about 25 mils thickness containing about 12 starch acrylonitrile graft copolymer by weight of the foam. An acrylic pressure sensitive adhesive such as a copolymer of isooctyl acrylate and acrylic acid in a 94 6 ratio is dispersed in an organic solvent.A portion of this slurry is poured onto a sheet of silicone coated release paper in horizontal strips of about 0.075 inch with about 0.05 inches between strips to leave a series of adhesive layers of about 2 mils thickness. This series of adhesive layers is laminated to the closed cell polyurethane foam by gently compressing the adhesive to the foam by passing through pressure rollers. The resulting wound dressing is cut to the desired size and packaged. Examples 2 15 Following the procedure of Example 1 but employing the following ingredients on a weight percent basis within polyurethane foam layer 12 other dressings within the scope of this invention are obtained. Example 2 34 5Guar gum 15 Locust bean gum 10Pectin 5 10 Karaya 10Gelatin 5 10 5 Sodium carboxymethylcellulose 5 10 10 CollagenCross linked sodium carboxy methylcellulose Aqualon R Starch acrylonitrile graft 7.5 copolymer J 500 Water Lock Cross linked dextran Sephadex CM C50 Example 6 7 8 9 10Guar gum 10 10 Locust bean gum Pectin 10 10 Sodium carboxymethylcellulose 10 10Collagen 10 Cross linked sodium carboxy 15 10 methylcellulose Aqualon R Starch acrylonitrile graft 15 20 copolymer J 500 Water Lock Cross linked dextran 10 Sephadex CM C50 Example 11 12 13 14 15Guar gum 7 7 Locust bean gum Pectin 7 10 10Karaya 7 Gelatin 5 7 10 Sodium carboxymethylcellulose 16 6 10CollagenCross linked sodium carboxy 10 methylcellulose Aqualon R Starch acrylonitrile graft 10 10 copolymer J 500 Water Lock Cross linked dextran 10 Sephadex CM CS0 Example 16 Following the procedure of Example 1 but substituting for the acrylic adhesive a pressure sensitive adhesive of the following composition Percent by weightPolyisobutylene Vistanex LM ME 18.0Polyisobutylene Vistanex L 100 20.0Terpene resin Piccolyte 20.0Butylated hydroxytoluene .0.5Mineral oil 8.5Sodium carboxymethylcellulose 18.0Gelatin 15.0 A mixture of 0.31 kg. of polyisobutylene Vistanex L 100 , 0.28 kg. of sodium carboxymethylcellulose, and 0.23 kg. of gelatin is kneaded.This mixture is added to a solution of heptane containing 0.28 kg. of polyisobutylene VistanexLM MH , 0.31 kg. of piccolyte resin, 8 g. of butylated hydroxytoluene, and 0.13 kg. of mineral oil to form an adhesive slurry. A portion of this slurry is poured onto a sheet of silicone release paper in horizontal strips of about 0.075 inch with about 0.05 inches between strips to leave a series of adhesive layers of about 4 mils thickness. This series of adhesive layers is laminated to the closed cell polyurethane foam by gently compressing the adhesive layer to the foam by passing through pressure rollers. The resulting wound dressing is cut to the desired size and packaged. In a similar manner, the pressure sensitive adhesive of this Example can be employed with the polyurethane foams of Examples 2 to 15. Example 17 Polyurethane is cast onto a sheet of silicone release paper to give a film of about 1 mils thickness. A flexible closed cell polyurethane foam is prepared by reacting appropriate amounts of a polyether polyol such as poly oxyethylene glycol, an isocyanate such as 4,4 methylenebis phenyl isocyanate , catalysts such as stannous octoate and dimethylaminoethyl ether and water blowing agent with sufficient starch acrylonitrile graft copolymer J 500 Water Lock . The starch acrylo nitrile graft copolymer is dispersed in the polyol.The other ingredients are mixed in a suitable vessel.The two mixtures are then intermixed at high speed in an in line mixer, poured onto the polyurethane film, and allowed to cure to give a flexible closed cell polyurethane foam of about 25 mils thickness containing about 12 starch acrylonitrile graft copolymer by weight of the foam. An acrylic pressure sensitive microporous adhesive is prepared by homogenizing an aqueous emulsion 52 by weight solids of 100 g. ofGelva RA2333 water based pressure sensitive.acrylic resin from Monsanto , adding 0.7 g. of sodium carboxymethylcellulose, and continuing the homogenation to introduce air bubbles into the emulsion. This slurry is cast onto a sheet of silicone coated release paper at a wet thickness of about 10 mils. This material is passed through a multi zone drying tunnel with a residence time of 5 to 10 minutes. The resulting dry microporous adhesive is about 4 mils thick. This microporous acrylic adhesive is laminated to the closed cell polyurethane foam by gently compressing the adhesive to the foam by passing through pressure rollers. The resulting wound dressing is cut to the desired size and packaged. Examples 18 31 Following the procedure of Example 17 but employing the following ingredients on a weight percent basis within polyurethane foam layer 12 other dressings within the scope of this invention are obtained. Example 19 19 21 Guar gum 15 Locust bean gum 10Pectin 5 10 Karaya 10Gelatin 5 10 5 Sodium carboxymethylcellulose 5 10 10 CollagenCross linked sodium carboxy methylcellulose Agualon R Starch acrylonitrile graft copolymer J 500 Water Lock Cross linked dextran 7.5 Sephadex CM C50 Example 22 23 24 25 26Guar gum 10 10 Locust bean gum Pectin 10Karaya Gelatin 10 Sodium carboxymethylcellulose 10 10Collagen 10 Cross linked sodium carboxy is 10 methylcellulose Aqualon R Starch acrylonitrile graft 15 20 copolymer J 500 Water Lock Cross linked dextran 10 Sephadex CM C50 Example 27 28 29 30 31Guar gum 7 Locust bean gum Pectin 7 10 10Karaya 7 Gelatin 5 7 10 Sodium carboxymethylcellulose 16 6 10CollagenCross linked sodium carboxy 10 methylcellulose Aqualon R Starch acrylonitrile graft 10 10 copolymer J 500 Water Lock Cross linked dextran 10 Sephadex CM CS0 Example 32 Following. the procedure of Example 17 but substituting for the microporous acrylic adhesive a pressure sensitive adhesive of the following composition Percent by weightPolyisobutylene Vistanex LM ME 18.0Polyisobutylene Vistanex L 100 20.0Terpene resin Piccolyte3 20.0Butylated hydroxytoluene 0.5Mineral oil 8.5Sodium carboxymethylcellulose 18.0Gelatin 15.0 The above solids are dispersed in sufficient heptane to make a slurry containing 40 by weight solids. The slurry is apples via a knife overroller onto silicone coated release paper to a wet thickness of 10 mils. The material is then passed through a multi zone oven with a residence time of 5 10 minutes so as to reduce the solvent content to less than 1 . The resulting dry adhesive layer is 3 mils thick and has a porosity of aboutScc sec in2. As the dry film emerges from the oven, it is laminated to the closed cell polyurethane foam prepared as described inExample 1 by gently compressing the adhesive to the foam by passing through pressure rollers. The resulting wound dressing is cut to the desired size and packaged. In a similar manner, the pressure sensitive microporous adhesive of this Example can be employed with the polyurethane foams ofExamples 18 to 31.