# Photocationically curable thiol ene compositions.

## Abstract
A composition curable to a cross linked solid polymer with UV irradiation comprising a a polythiol compound having at least 2 thiol groups per molecule b an ene compound having at least one vinyl cycloacetal group selected from the formulas CHEM and c a cationic photoinitiator. The compositions cure in seconds or minutes at ambient temperatures in conventional UV ovens to crosslinked solids with enhanced properties over comparable formulations employing radical photoinitiators.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A composition curable to a cross linked solid polymer with UV irradiation comprising a a polythiol compound having at least 2 thiol groups per molecule b an ene compound having at least one vinyl cycloacetal group selected from the formulas EMI8.1 and c a cationic photoinitiator. 2. A composition as in Claim 1 wherein the sum of thiol groups per polythiol molecule and vinyl cycloacetal groups per ene compound molecule does not exceed 4. 3. A composition as in Claim 1 wherein the cationic photoinitiator is selected from group Va aromatic onium salts, group VIa aromatic onium salts, riaryl iodonium salts, alkyl aryl iodonium salts, pyrylium salts, sulfoxonium salts, and thiopyrylium salts of weak nucleophile anions. 4. A compositions as in Claim 3 wherein the cationic photoinitiator is selected from aromatic sulfonium salts, aromatic iodonium salts and pyrylium salts. 5. The composition of Claim 1 wherein the polythiol resin is selected from pentaerythritol tetrakis ss mercaptoproprionate , pentaerythritol tetrakis Mercaptoacetate , trimethylolpropane trimercap toacetate and di 2 mercapto ethyl ether. 6. The composition of Claim 1 wherein the photoini tiator is present in the range of .1 10 by weight of the composition. 7. The composition of claim 6 wherein the photoini tiator is present in the range of 1 5 by weight of the composition. 8. The composition of Claim 1 wherein the ene compound is 3,9 divinyl 2,4,8,10 tetraoxaspiro 5,5 undecane. 9. The composition of Claim 8 wherein the polythiol resin is di 2 mercapto ethyl ether. 10. The composition of Claim 1 wherein the ratio of thiol groups to cyclic vinyl groups is in the range of 30 70 to 70 30. 11. A composition as in Claim 1 wherein said ene compound has at least 2 said vinyl cycloacetal groups per molecule. 12. In a method of curing a composition comprising a polythiol a compound having at least one vinyl cycloacetal group selected from the formulas EMI9.1 and a photoinitiator, the method comprising exposing the composition to actinic radiation, the improvement comprising that said photoinitiator is a cationic photoinitiator.

## Description
Photocationically Curable Thiol ene CompositionsBackground of The Invention In U.S. 3,661,744 there are described compositions of polythiol resins and certain polyenes which cure by radical initiated addition reactions between the two functionalities. The reaction requires that the sum of thiol functionality polythiol molecule plus ene functionality polyene molecule be in excess of 4 in order to cure to a solid cross linked resin. In U.S. Patents 4,119,617, 4,157,421 and 4,182,848 there are described radically photocurable compositions comprise polythiols and a polyene derived from a vinyl acetal. These polyenes have two or more unsaturated cycloacetal groups per molecule expressed by the formulaEMI1.1 In all of the above references the compositions cured by photochemical processes are known radical processes, either by direct radical generation with high intensity radiation or with radical photoinitiators such as benzophenone. U.S. 4,119,617 also discloses that such resin mixtures can be cured with a strong acid initiator but the exemplified cure times are slow and ipclude elevated temperatures or a post cure bake.Summary of The Invention The present inventors have discovered that composi tions of polythiols and vinyl cycloacetal polyenes of the type described in U.S. Patents 4,119,617, 4,157,421, and 4,182,848 can be readily cured withUV cationic photoinitiators. The new compositions unlike the acid cured compositions of U.S. 4,119,617 cure to solids within seconds or minutes at ambient temperatures in conventional UV ovens. Also, surprisingly, they give enhanced cured properties over compaparableformulations using radical photoinitiators.The composition readily cure even where the total functionality of ene and thiol is as low as 4 or slightly less.Detailed Description of The Invention The vinyl cycloacetal resins useful in the invention are compounds having an average of more than 1 group, preferably 2 or more groups, of the formulaEMI2.1 per molecule. Suitable examples include 3,9 divinyl 2,4,8,10 tetraoxaspiro 5.5 Undecane DTU also known as diallylidene pentaerythritol, triallylidene sorbitol, diallylidene 2,2,66 tetramethylol cyclohexanone and reaction products of polyisocyanate resins with 5ethyl 5 hydroxymethyl 2 vinyl m dioxane, 4 hydroxymethyl2 vinyl 1,3 dioxolane or 5 hydroxy 2 vinyl m dioxane.Other examples of suitable vinyl cycloacetal resins are contained in U.S. Patent ,l19,617 at columns 4 7 and U.S. 4,157,421, columns 2 4. The polythiol resins useful in the inventive compositions are also described in the aforementioned patents, specifically in column 7 of U.S. 4,119,617 and column 4 of U.S. 4,157,421. Further examples may be found in U.S. 3,661,744 at columns 8 9. Preferred polythiol resins include pentaerythritol tetrakis ss mercaptoproprionate PTM , pentaerythitrol tetrakis mercapto acetate , trimethylolpropane trimercaptoacetate and di 2 mercapto ethyl ether. Cationic photoinitiators are well known materials.Usually they are complex salts of certain specified cations and weak nucleophile anions. Examples include aryl diazonium salts, Group VIa aromatic onium salts,Group Va aromatic onium salts,diaryl iodonium salts, sulfonium salts, pyrylium salts, alkyl aryl iodonium salts and thiopyrylium salts, of such anions as tetrafluoroarsenate, hexafluorophosphate, hexafluoroantimonate, etc. Such salts are disclosed in U.S.Patents 3,708,296 4,058,401 4,069,056 4,090,936 4,383,025 4,398,014 4,405,765 and 4,450,360, respectively. Of these various cationic photoinitiators iodonium, sulfonium and pyrylium salts are generally preferred. Diazonium salts should generally be avoided because of their poor stability. The ratios of polythiol and cyclic vinyl acetal resins in the inventive composition are not critical.However, for optional properties, it will generally be preferred that the ratio of equivalent of thiol groups to cyclic vinyl acetal groups be in the range of 30 70 to 70 30, most preferably approximately 50 50.The cationic photoinitiator may be employed in the compositions at levels of between about 0.1 and 10 by weight of the total composition, preferably between 1 and 5 . The invention is illustrated by the following nonlimiting examples.Example 1 A series of formulations were prepared based on mixtures of 80 parts of 3,9 vinyl 2,4,8,10 tetra oxaspirot5.5 undecane DTU and 20 parts of dibutyl phthalate DBP added to plasticize the solid DTU.This mixture will be referred to as composition X. Formulation A was prepared by adding to 100 parts of composition X 3 parts of a commercially available cationic photoinitiator, UVE 1014 GeneralElectric Co. , and 2 parts of an amine, ethyl 4 dimethylaminobenzoate EPD . Formulation B was prepared by adding to 100 parts of composition X 3 parts ofUVE 1014 and 2 parts of tributyl amine TBA . Formulation C was prepared by adding to 100 parts of composition X 3 parts of UVE 1014. Formulation D is composition X with no additives. Formulation E was prepared by adding to 100 parts of composition X 2 parts of 2,2 dimethoxy 2 phenylacetophenone, a free radical photoinitiator DMPA . All formulations were coated onto glass slides and irradiated under a medium pressure mercury lamp with a power rating of 200 watts per linear inch at an intensity of 100 milliwatts sq. cm. at 365mm.The time taken to produce an insoluble film was measured and the results are listed in Table 1. TABLE 1Formulation A B C D EDTU 80 80 80 80 80DBP 20 20 20 20 20UVE 1014 3 3 3 EPD 2 TBA 2 A B C D EDMPA 2Time, sec. 30 30 15 30 30 30 The results show that amines retard the polymerization of DTU in the presence of a cationic photoinitiator, while in the absence of such a photoinitiator or in the presence of a free radical photoinitiator the polymerization is also retarded. Thus cationic propagation or cross linking of DTU in the presence of cationic photoinitiators is demonstrated.Example 2 A series of formulations were prepared. Formulation A consisted of 24.4 grams of pentaerythritol tetrakis ss mercaptopropionate PTM , 16.6 grams of triallyl s triazine trione TST and 1.23 grams of UVE 1014. Formulation B consisted of 24.4 grams of PTM, 16.6 grams of TST and 0.62 grams of DMPA. Formulation C consisted of 24.4 grams of PTM, 21.2 grams of DTU and 1.37 grams of UVE 1014. FormulationD consisted of 24.4 grams of PTM, 21.2 grams of DTU and 0.68 grams of DMPA. All formulations were filled into molds 8mm in diameter and 2mm in depth and irradiated under a medium pressure mercury lamp with a power rating of 200 watts per linear inch at an intensity of 80 milliwatts sq. cm. at 365mm for 30 seconds. The cured slugs of material were removed from the molds and tested for Barber Coleman hardness with the results listed in Table 2. TABLE 2Formulation A B C DPTM 24.4 24.4 24.4 24.4TST 16.6 16.6 DTU 21.2 21.2UVE 1014 1.23 1.37 DMPA 0.62 0.68Hardness 0 14 17 17 These results show that the presence of vinyl cycloacetal monomer is essential to the development of useful material properties in the presence of a cationic photoinitiator.Example 3 Two formulations were prepared. FormulationA consisted of 2.44 grams of PTM, 1.66 grams of TST, 0.03 grams of 2,4,6, triphenyl pyrylium hexafluoroantimonate TPHA , 0.02 grams of 2,6 di tert butyl 4methylphenol DTB , and 0.40 grams of propylene carbonate PC . Formulation B consisted of 2.44 grams of PTM, 2.12 grams of DTU, 0.04 grams of TPHA, 0.023 grams of DTBM and 0.40 grams of PC. Both formulations were filled into molds 8mm in diameter and 2mm in depth and irradiated under a medium pressure mercury lamp at an intensity of 100 milliwatts sq. cm. at 365mm for 300 seconds.At the end of this time the irradiated slugs of material were removed from the molds and extracted with acetone at room temperature for 30 seconds, dried and weighed.The material from Formulation A was only 14 insoluble while the material from Formulation B was 93 insoluble, again demonstrating the necessity of incorporating a vinyl cycloacetal monomer into thiol ene formulations containing a cationic photoinitiator. The 93 insoluble result for Formulation B also demonstrates that the polythiol resin is incorporated into the cured polymer.Example 4 Two formulations were prepared. FormulationA consisted of 1.38 grams of 2 mercaptoethyl ether, 2.12 grams of DTU, and 0.11 grams of UVE 1014. Formulation B consisted of 1.38 grams of 2 mercaptoethyl ether, 2.12 grams of DTU, and 0.04 grams of DMPA. Since both resins are difunctional the total functionality of the system, as described above, was only 4. Films of both compositions were placed between assemblies comprising a sheet of 3 X 3 X 3 4 safety glass and a 1 diameter hexagonal aluminium bolt head 1 2 in thickness. The films were irradiated through the safety glass under a medium pressure mercury lamp with a power rating of 200 watts per linear inch at an intensity of 80 milliwatts sq. cm. at 365mm for 120 seconds.At the end of this time a torque wrench was applied to the hexagonal bolt head and the torque required to remove the bolt head from the glass was measured.The assembly incorporating Formulation A required a torque of 100 kg cm while the assembly incorporatingFormulation B required only 30 kg cm.