# METHOD FOR PRODUCING MICROCAPSULE

## Claims
1. Verfahren zur Erzeugung von Mikrokapseln zur Injektion mit verlängerter Wirkstoffabgabe, umfassend

## Description
This invention relates to a method for producing sustained release microcapsules containing a water soluble drug. USP 3, 523, 906 discloses a process for encapsulating water or a compound in aqueous phase in a polymerized material soluble in a water immiscible solvent by evaporation of the solvent. For drugs required to be administered for a prolonged period, various dosage forms have been proposed. Among them, there is disclosed in European Patent Application Publication No. 52,510A a method of microencapsulation by phase separation using a coacervation agent such as a mineral oil or a vegetable oil. Microcapsules obtained by the above mentioned method have a drawback in that the particles are apt to adhere to one another in their production process. Under these circumstances, intensive studies were curried out in order to develop sustained release drug preparations. As a result, it was found that microcapsules having favorable properties can be obtained efficiently with a high rate of drug take up into the microcapsules when, in the process of forming a three phase emulsion for microencapsulation by an in water drying, the viscosity of the W O emulsion for preparing the three phase W O W emulsion is adjusted to 0.15 to 5 Pas 150 to 5,000 cp . Further research work based on this finding has now led to completion of the present invention. Thus this invention is directed to a method of producing sustained release microcapsules for injection containing a water soluble drug which comprises preparing a W O emulsion composed of a water soluble drug containing solution as the inner aqueous phase and a polymer containing solution as the oil phase adjusting the viscosity of the W O emulsion used in preparing the W O W emulsion to from 0.15 to 5 Pas 150 to 5,000 centipoises by the procedure of increasing the polymer concentration in the oil phase adjusting the ratio of the aqueous phase to the oil phase adjusting the temperature of said W O emulsion adjusting the temperature of the external aqueous phase adjusting the temperature of the W O emulsion with a line heater or cooler or the like in infusing the W O emulsion into the external aqueous phase or carrying out the above procedure in combination dispersing said emulsion in an aqueous phase and subjecting the resulting W O W emulsion to an in water drying. The viscosity value mentioned herein is measured with an Ubbelohde viscometer in accordance with the Japanese pharmacopeia. This is a dynamic viscosity value, and cp stands for centipoise. The water soluble drug to be used in the practice of this invention is highly hydrophilic and has a small oil water distribution coefficient which, when given in terms of octanol water distribution coefficient, for instance, is not greater than about 0.1. Said water soluble drug includes, but is not particularly limited to, physiologically active polypeptides, other antibiotics, antitumor agents, antipyretics, analgesics, antiinflammatory agents, antitussives and expectorants, sedatives, muscle relaxants, antiepileptics, antiulcer agents, antidepressants, antiallergic agents, cardiotonics, antiarrhythmic agents, vasodilators, antihypotensive diuretics, antidiabetic agents, anticoagulants, hemostatic agents, antitubercular agents, hormones and narcotic antagonists. The physiologically active polypeptides usable in the practice of this invention contain two or more amino acids and preferably have a molecular weight of about 200 to about 80,000. Examples of said polypeptides include luteinizing hormone releasing hormone LH RH , derivatives thereof having LH RH like activity, i.e. the polypeptides of the formula Pyr Glu R₁ Trp Ser R₂ R₃ R₄ Arg Pro R₅ I wherein R₁ is His, Tyr, Trp or p NH₂ Phe, R₂ is Tyr or Phe, R₃ is Gly or a D amino acid residue, R₄ is Leu, Ile or Nle and R₅ is Gly NH R₆ R₆ is H or a lower alkyl group which may optionally be substituted by hydroxy or NH R₆ R₆ is as defined above , and salts thereof see U. S. Patents Nos. 3,853,837, 4,008,209 and 3,972,859, British Patent No. 1,423,083, and Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America, volume 78, pages 6509 6512 1981 . Referring to the above formula I , the D amino acid residue represented by R₃ is, for example, an α D amino acid residue containing up to 9 carbon atoms e.g. D Leu, Ile, Nle, Val, NVal, Abu, Phe, Phg, Ser, Tyr, Met, Ala, Trp, α Aibu . It may have an appropriate protective group e.g. t butyl, t butoxy, t butoxycarbonyl, naphthyl . An acid addition salt or metal complex of the peptide I can of course be used in the same manner as the peptide I . In abbreviating the amino acids, peptides, protective groups and so on as used in specifying the polypeptides of formula I , there are used the abbreviations according to the IUPAC IUB Commission on Biological Nomenclature or the abbreviations commonly used in the relevant field of art. For those amino acids which involve optical isomerism, each abbreviation, unless otherwise indicated, refers to the L form. In this specification, the acetate of the polypeptide of the above formula I wherein R₁ His, R₂ Tyr, R₃ D Leu, R₄ Leu and R₅ NHCH₂ CH₃ is called TAP 144 . Said polypeptide in the acetate form has the generic name leuprolide . Said polypeptides further include LH RH antagonists see U. S. patents Nos. 4,086,219, 4,124,577, 4,253,997, 4,317,815, 329,526 and 368,7021. Said polypeptides also include, for example, insulin, somatostatin, somatostatin derivatives see U. S. Patents Nos. 4,087,390, 4,093,574, 4,100,117 and 4,253,9981, growth hormones, prolactin, adrenocorticotropic hormone ACTH , melanocyte stimulating hormone MSH , thyrotropin releasing hormone TRH , salts and derivatives thereof see U. S. Patents Nos. 3,957,247 and 4,100,152 , thyroid stimulating hormone TSH , luteinizing hormone LH , follicle stimulating hormone FSH , vasopressin, vasopressin derivatives desmopressin see Folia Endocrinologica Japonica, volume 54, No. 5, pages 676 691 1978 , oxytocin, calcitonin, parathyroid hormone, glucagon, gastrin, secretin, pancreozymin, cholecystokinin, angiotensin, human placental lactogen, human chorionic gonadotropin HCG , enkephalin, enkephalin derivatives see U. S. Patent No. 4,277,394 and European Patent Application Publication No. 31567A , endorphin, kyotorphin, interferons α, β and γ , interleukins I, II and III , taftsin, thymopoietin, thymosin, thymostimulin, thymic humoral factor THF , serum thymic factor STF or FTS and derivatives thereof see U. S. Patent No. 4,229,438 , and other thymic factors Igaku no Ayumi Medicine in Progress , volume 125, No. 10, pages 835 843 1983 , tumor necrosis factor TNF , colony stimulating factor CSF , motilin, dinorphin, bombesin, neurotensin, cerulein, bradykinin, urokinase, asparaginase, kallikrein, substance P, nerve growth factor, blood coagulation factors VIII and IX, lysozyme chloride, polymixin B, colistin, gramicidin, bacitracin, protein synthesis stimulating peptides British Patent No. 8,232,082 , gastric inhibitory polypeptide GIP , vasoactive intestinal polypeptide VIP , plateletderived growth factor PDGF , growth hormone releasing factor GRF, somatocrinin , bone morphagenetic protein BMP and epidermal growth factor EGF . The antitumor agents mentioned above include, among others, bleomycin hydrochloride, methotrexate, actinomycin D, mitomycin C, vinblastine sulfate, vincristine sulfate, daunorubicin hydrochloride, adriamycin, neocarcinostatin, cytosine arabinoside, fluorouracil, tetrahydrofuryl 5 fluorouracil, krestin, picibanil lentinan, levamisole, bestatin, azimexon, glycyrrhizin, poly I C, poly A U and poly ICLC. The antibiotics mentioned above include, among others, gentamicin, dibekacin, kanendomycin, lividomycin, tobramycin, amikacin, fradiomycin, sisomicin, tetracycline hydrochloride, oxytetracycline hydrochloride, rolitetracycline, doxycycine hydrochloride,ampicillin, piperacillin, ticarcillin, cephalotin, cephaloridine, cefotiam, cefsulodine, cefmenoxime, cefmetazole, cefazolin, cefotaxime, cefoperazone, ceftizoxime, moxalactam, thienamycin, sulfazecin and azthreonam. The antipyretic, analgesic and antiinflammatory agents mentioned above include, among others, sodium salicylate, sulpyrine, sodium flufenamate, sodium diclofenac, sodium indomethacin, morphine hydrochloride, pethidine hydrochloride, levorphanol tartrate and oxymorphone. The antitussives and expectorants include ephedrine hydrochloride, methylephedrine hydrochloride, noscapine hydrochloride, codeine phosphate, dihydrocodeine phosphate, alloclamide hydrochloride, chlophedianol hydrochloride, picoperidamine hydrochloride, cloperastine, protokylol hydrochloride, isoproterenol hydrochloride, salbutamol sulfate and terbutaline sulfate, among others. The sedatives include chlorpromazine hydrochloride, prochlorperazine, trifluoperazine, atropine sulfate, scopolamine methyl bromide, and so forth. The muscle relaxants include, for example, pridinol methanesulfonate, tubocurarine chloride and pancuronium bromide. The antiepileptics include sodium phenytoin, ethosuximide, sodium acetazolamide chlordiazepoxide hydrochloride, etc. The antiulcer agents iriclude, among others, metoclopramide and histidine hydrochloride. The antidepressants include imipramine, clomipramine, noxiptiline and phenelzine sulfate, amongst others. The antiallergic agents include, for instance, diphenhydramine hydrochloride, chlorpheniramine maleate, tripelenamine hydrochloride, methdilazine hydrochloride, clemizole hydrochloride, diphenylpyraline hydrochloride and methoxyphenamine hydrochloride. The cardiotonics include, among others, trans π oxocamphor, theophillol, aminophylline and etilefrine hydrochloride. The antiarrhythmic agents include propranolol hydrochloride, alprenolol hydrochloride, bufetolol hydrochloride, oxyprenolol hydrochloride, etc. The vasodilators include oxyfedrine hydrochloride, diltiazem hydrochloride, tolazoline hydrochloride, hexobendine and bamethan sulfate, among others. The hypotensive diuretics include hexamethonium bromide, pentolinium, mecamylamine hydrochloride, ecarazine hydrochloride, clonidine hydrochloride, etc. The antidiuretic agents include, among others, sodium glymidine, glypizide, phenformin hydrochloride, buformin hydrochloride and metformin. The anticoagulants include sodium heparin and sodium citrate, among others. The hemostatic agents include thromboplastin, thrombin, menadione sodium bisulfite, acetomenaphthone, ε aminocaproic acid, tranexamic acid, carbozochrome sodium sulfate, adrenochrome monoaminoguanidine methanesulfonate, and so forth. The antituberculous agents include, among others, isoniazide, ethanbutol and sodium p aminosalicylate. The hormones include, among others, prednisolone succinate, prednisolone sodium phosphate, dexamethasone sodium sulfate, betamethasone sodium phosphate, hexestrol diphosphate, hexestrol diacetate and methimazole. The narcotic antagonists include levallorphan tartrate, nalorphine hydrochloride and neloxone hydrochloride, among others. The above mentioned water soluble drugs are used in amounts selected depending on the kind of drug, desired pharmacological effects and duration of the effects, among others, and the concentration in the inner aqueous phase is selected generally within the range of about 0.001 to about 70 weight weight , preferably within the range of 0.01 to 50 weight weight . In carrying out the method according to this invention, the viscosity of the inner aqueous phase may be increased by further adding a drug retaining substance to the inner aqueous phase. The drug retaining substance mentioned above is a substance which is soluble in water but is hardly soluble in the organic solvent in the oil phase and, when dissolved in water, gives a highly viscous semisolid or, when placed in a water dissolved state under the action of some external factor, for instance temperature, pH, metal ion e.g. Cu , Al , Zn , organic acid e.g. tartaric acid, citric acid, tannic acid or salt thereof e.g. calcium citrate or chemical condensing agent e.g. glutaraldehyde, acetaldehyde , gives a semisolid or solid matrix as a result of marked increase of viscosity caused by said external factor. Examples of said drug retaining substance are natural or synthetic gums or high molecular compounds. The natural gums include gum acacia, Irish moss, karaya gum, gum tragacanth, gum guaiac, xanthan gum and locust bean gum. The natural high molecular compounds include proteins, such as casein, gelatin, collagen, albumin e.g. human serum albumin , globulin and fibrin, and carbohydrates, such as cellulose, dextrin, pectin, starch, agar and mannan. They may be used either as such or in the form of synthetic gums resulting from partial chemical modification, for example esters or ethers derived from the above mentioned natural gums e.g. methylcellulose, ethylcellulose, carboxymethylcellulose, gelatin succinate , hydrolyzates thereof e.g. sodium alginate, sodium pectinate , or salts of these. The synthetic high molecular compounds include, among others, polyvinyl compounds e.g. polyvinyl pyrrolidone, polyvinyl alcohol, polyvinyl methyl ether, polyvinyl ether , polycarboxylic acids e.g. polyacrylic acid, polymethacrylic acid, Carbopol Gooarich , polyethylene compounds e.g. polyethylene glycol , polysaccharides e.g. polysucrose, polyglucose, polylactose , and salts of these. Also included within the scope of drug retaining substances are substances capable of giving high molecular compounds as a result of condensation or cross linking which proceeds under the action of the external factor mentioned above. Among these drug retaining substances, there are particularly preferable gelatin, albumin, pectin and agar. The drug retaining substances may be used either alone or in combination. The polymer to be contained in the oil phase in carrying out the method according to this invention is a polymer which is scarcely soluble or insoluble in water and is biocompatible. Examples are such biodegradable polymers as aliphatic polymers e.g. polylactic acid, polyglycolic acid, polycitric acid, polymalic acid , poly α cyanoacrylic acid esters, poly β hydroxybutyric acid, polyalkylene oxalate e.g. polytrimethylene oxalate, polytetramethylene oxalate , polyorthoesters, polyorthocarbonates and other polycarbonates e.g. polyethylene carbonate, polyethylene propylene carbonate , and polyamino acids e.g. poly γ benzyl L glutamic acid, poly L alanine, poly γ methyl L glutamic acid . Other biocompatible high polymers are polystyrene, polyacrylic acid, polymethacrylic acid, acrylic acid methacrylic acid copolymers, polyamides nylon , polyethylene terephthalate tetron , polyamino acids, silicone polymers, dextran stearate, ethylcellulose, acetylcellulose, nitrocellulose, polyurethanes, maleic anhydride based copolymers, ethylene vinyl acetate copolymers, polyvinyl acetate, polyvinyl alcohol, polyacrylamide, etc. These polymers may be homopolymers or copolymers of two or more monomers, or mixtures of the polymers. They may also be in the salt form. Among these polymers, particularly preferred for use in injections are biodegradable polymers, most preferably polylactic acid, lactic acid glycolic acid copolymer and mixtures thereof. The ratio of lactic acid to glycolic acid in the copolymer is preferably about 100 0 to 50 50 weight preferably about 50 to 95 weight of lactic acid and about 50 to 5 weight of glycolic acid, more preferably about 60 to 95 weight of lactic acid and about 40 to 5 weight of glycolic acid, still more preferably about 60 to 85 weight of lactic acid and about 40 to 15 weight of glycolic acid. The ratio is especially preferably about 75 2 mole of lactic acid and about 25 2 mole of glycolic acid. The polymers for use in this invention preferably have an average molecular weight of about 1,000 to about 800,000, more preferably about 2,000 to about 100,000. The lactic acid glycolic acid copolymers still more preferably have an average molecular weight of about 5000 to about 30000. These polymers are used in amounts to be selected depending on the intensity of pharmacological activity of the water soluble drug, drug release rate, the duration and other factors. For instance, these are used as the microcapsule bases in an amount of about 3 to 10,000 parts by weight, preferably about 5 to about 100 parts by weight, per part by weight of the water soluble drug. The solution oil phase containing the above polymer is that of the polymer in an organic solvent. Said organic solvent may be any organic solvent which has a boiling point not higher than about 120 C and hardly miscible with water. Examples are halogenated alkanes e.g. dichloromethane, chloroform, chloroethane, trichloroethane, carbon tetrachloride , ethyl acetate, ethyl ether, cyclohexane, benzene, and toluene. These may be used in admixture of two or more. In carring out the microencapsulation method according to this invention, water is added to the water soluble drug to prepare the inner aqueous phase. Here, the above mentioned drug retaining substance may further be added. To said inner aqueous phase, there may be added a pH adjusting agent for maintaining the stability or solubility of the water soluble drug, such as carbonic acid, acetic acid, oxalic acid, citric acid, tartaric acid, succinic acid, phosphoric acid, the sodium or potassium salt of the above compound, hydrochloric acid or sodium hydroxide. There may further be added a stabilizer for the water soluble drug such as albumin, gelatin, citric acid, sodium ethylenediaminetetraacetate, dextrin or sodium hydrogen sulfite, or a preservative such as a para hydroxybenzoic acid ester e.g. methylparaben, propylparaben , benzyl alcohol, chlorobutanol or thimerosal. The thus obtained aqueous solution for use as the inner aqueous phase is added to a polymer containing solution oil phase , followed by an emulsification procedure to give a W O emulsion. For said emulsification procedure, a known method of effecting dispersion is used. Said method is, for example, the intermittent shaking method, the mixer method using a propeller shaped stirrer, a turbineshaped stirrer or the like, the colloid mill method, the homogenizer method or the ultrasonication method. The thus prepared W O emulsion is them emulsified into a W O W triplicate phase emulsion and subjected to an in water drying. Thus, said W O emulsion is further added to a third aqueous phase to give a W O W emulsion and thereafter the solvent in the oil phase is removed to give microcapsules. To the external aqueous phase, there may be added an emulsifying agent. As the emulsifying agent, there may be used any one capable of forming generally a stable O W emulsion, for example an anionic surfactant e.g. sodium oleate, sodium stearate, sodium lauryl sulfate , a nonionic surfactant e.g. polyoxyethylenesorbitan fatty acid ester Tween 80, Tween 60, products of Atlas Powder Co., U.S.A. , a polyoxyethylene castor oil derivative HCO 60, HCO 50, products of Nikko Chemicals, Japan , polyvinyl pyrrolidone, polyvinyl alcohol, carboxymethylcellulose, lecithia or gelatin. Such emulsifiers may be used either alone or in combination of some of them. The emulsifying agent concentration may suitably be selected within the range of about 0.01 to 20 , preferably within the range of about 0.05 to 10 . The viscosity of the W O emulsion for preparing the W O W emulsion is ajusted to 0.15 to 5 Pas 150 cp to 5.000 cp , preferably 0.15 to 5 Pas 150 cp to 5,000 cp . In adjusting the viscosity, there may be used the following means or a combination thereof, for instance What is important in taking such measures as mentioned above is only that the W O emulsion has a viscosity of 0.15 to 5 Pas 150 cp to 5,000 cp When it is made up into a W O W emulsion. In adjusting the viscosity of the W O emulsion by taking one or more of the above procedures, the polymer concentration in the oil phase, when adjusted, is preferably adjusted to about 10 to 80 weight by weight , although the preferable range of such concentration is not specified generally but may vary depending on the kind of polymer, kind of solvent and other factors. Adjusting the viscosity of the W O emulsion in the above manner is preferably carried out so that the W O ratio falls within the range of about 1 to 50 volume by volume , although the preferable range of such ratio is not specified generally but may depend on the kind and amount of water soluble drug and properties of the oil phase. In adjusting the viscosity of the W O emulsion in the above manner, the temperature of the W O emulsion is generally regulated to from about 20 C to the boiling point of the organic solvent used, preferably about 0 C to 30 C. In cases where the polymer concentration in the oil phase has been adjusted or in cases where the ratio between the aqueous phase and the oil phase has been adjusted, the viscosity of the W O emulsion can be also adjusted on the occasion of preparing the W O emulsion. In cases where the viscosity of the W O emulsion is adjusted by regulating the temperature of the W O emulsion, the temperature of said W O emulsion is adjusted, for example on the occasion of adding the W O emulsion to the external aqueous phase. The viscosity adjustment may also be effected by adjusting in advance the temperature of the external aqueous phase on tie occasion of adding the W O emulsion to the external aqueous phase so that the temperature of the W O emulsion can be adjusted when the W O W emulsion is prepared. For removing the solvent from the oil phase in subjecting the W O W emulsion to an in water drying, any of the common methods in general use is employed. Thus, the solvent is removed, for example by simply allowing the W O W emulsion to stand under stirring, by heating slowly said emulsion, by blowing nitrogen gas or the like onto said emulsion, by gradually reducing the pressure while stirring with a propeller shaped stirrer or a magnetic stirrer, or by using a rotary evaporator while adjusting the degree of vacuum. In the step of solvent removal, the required time can be reduced by gradually warming the W O W emulsion after the progress of solidification of the polymer to a certain extent, thereby rendering the solvent removal more complete. The thus produced microcapsules are collected by centrifugation or filtration, rinsed several times with distilled water to thereby remove the free water soluble drug portion adhering to the microcapsule surface and other substances, and, if necessary, warmed under reduced pressure to thereby remove the moisture in microcapsules and the solvent in the microcapsule wall more completely. The microcapsules obtained in the above manner are sieved as necessary to eliminate excessively large microcapsules. For use in the form of suspensions depending on the extent of the sustained release property, the microcapsules may have a grain size within the range in which the dispersibility and penetration requirements are met. Thus, for example, they may have an average grain size within the range of about 0.5 to 400 µm, desirably and preferably within the range of about 2 to 200 µm, more preferably about 2 to 100 µm. In this manner, the rate of take up of the water soluble drug, which is the active ingredient, into microcapsules can be increased by using the method according to this invention. Furthermore, the use of a smaller amount of organic solvent in the production process is sufficient as compared with the process involving drying in the oil phase. From the above and other viewpoints, the method according to this invention is advantageous in commercial microcapsule production. The microcapsules produced by the method according to this invention have many advantages. For instance, they scarcely undergo aggregation or cohesion to one another during the production step. There can be obtained microcapsules which are satisfactorily spherical in shape. The step of removing the solvent from the oil phase is easy to control, whereby the surface structure of microcapsules, which is decisive for the rate of drug release inclusive, e.g. of the number and size of pores which are to serve as main routes of drug release ,can be controlled. The microcapsules produced by the method according to this invention can be administered to the living body by implantation thereof as such. They may also be administered in various dosage forms and thus can be used as raw material in producing such dosage forms. The injection form is preferably as the dosage form mentioned above. For instance, in making up the microcapsules according to this invention for an injection, the microcapsules according to the invention are dispersed in an aqueous medium together with a dispersing agent e.g. Tween 80, HCO 60, carboxymethylcellulose, sodium alginate , a preservative e.g. methylparaben, propylparaben , an isotonizing agent e.g. sodium chloride, mannitol, sorbitol, glucose . Such a suspension can serve as a sustained release injection. Furthermore, the above microencapsulated sustained release injection can be converted to a more stable, sustained release injection by adding an additional excipient e.g. mannitol, sorbitol, lactose, glucose , redispersing the resulting mixture and effecting solidification by freeze drying or spray drying with simultaneous addition of distilled water for injection or some appropriate dispersing agent. The dose of the sustained release preparation according to this invention may vary depending on the kind and amount of the water soluble drug, which is the active ingredient, dosage form, duration of drug release, recipient animal e.g. warm blooded animals such as mouse, rat, horse, cattle, human and purpose of administration but should be within the range of the effective dose of said active ingredient. For example, the single dose per said animal of the microcapsules can adequately be selected within the range of about 0.01 to 200 mg kg body weight, preferable about 0.2 to 40 mg kg,still more preferably about 0.2 to 20 mg kg or 0.2 to 6 mg kg. The volume of the suspension for administering as the above mentioned injection can adequately be selected within the range of about 0.1 to 10 ml, preferably about 0.1 to 5 ml, more preferably about 0.5 to 3 ml. In this manner, there is obtained a pharmaceutical composition prepared in the form of microcapsules which comprises an effective but greater amount of the water soluble drug as compared with the ordinary single dose and a biocompatible high polymer and is capable of releasing the drug continuously over a prolonged period of time. The sustained release preparation according to the present invention has the following advantages, among others In accordance with the method of this invention, the rate of water soluble drug take up into microcapsules can be increased markedly by adjusting the viscosity of the W O emulsion to a value higher than that employed in the conventional processes. Accordingly, sustained release microcapsules containing a water soluble drug can be produced with advantage. The following examples illustrate the invention in further detail. In the following Examples, the weight average molecular weight is based on standard of polystyrene. Interferon α 500 mg was dissolved in 300 mg of water at 50 C. The solution was added to a solution of 3,500 mg of polylactic acid weight average molecular weight 21,000 in 4 ml of methylene chloride and the mixture was stirred in a small size homogenizer Polytron, product of Kinematica, Switzerland for 20 seconds. The thus obtained W O emulsion was cooled to 15 C in a hermetically closed vessel and deforming and liquid temperature adjustment were conducted. The emulsion cooled to 15 C had a viscosity of 4,5 Pas 4,500 cp as measured with an Ubbelohde viscometer. This emulsion was then dispersed in 500 ml of a 5 aqueous solution of polyvinyl alcohol PVA using a homogenizer to give a W O W emulsion. On that occasion, the homogenizer was operated at 4,000 rpm for 1 minute. Thereafter, the W O W emulsion was stirred gently with an ordinary stirrer for 2 hours to thereby allow the evaporation of methylene chloride, hence the solidification of microcapsules, to proceed. The microcapsules were then collected by centrifugation and rinsed with purified water on the same occasion. The microcapsules collected were lyophilized to obtain a powder. The content of interferon α taken up in the microcapsules was 11.5 , the recovery rate take up rate being 92.0 . Leuprolide 450 mg and 50 mg of sodium carboxy methylcellulose Na CMC were dissolved in 500 mg of water at 60 C. The solution was added to a solution of 4,000 mg of lactic acid glycolic acid copolymer lactic acid glycolic acid 75 mole 25 mole , weight average molecular weight 12,000 in 4.5 ml of methylene chloride and the mixture was stirred in a Polytron homogenizer for 20 seconds. The thus obtained W O emulsion had a viscosity of 3.3 Pas 3,300 cp at 15 C. The subsequent steps were operated in the manner of Example 1 to give microcapsules. The content of leuprolide in the microcapsules was 9.8 , the recovery take up being 98 . Cefotiam dihydrochloride 50 mg and 20 mg of gelatin were dissolved in 250 mg of water at 40 C. The solution was mixed with a solution of 4 g of polylactic acid weight average molecular weight 30,000 in 6.3 ml of chloroform and the mixture was stirred to give a W O emulsion. This W O emulsion was placed in a glass syringe and adjusted to 16 C. Then, the emulsion was injected into 1,000 ml of a water plase containing 0.1 weight weight of Tween 80 and having a temperature of 16 C while stirring at 7,000 rpm for 1 minute for emulsification. The chloroform was then allowed to evaporate while stirring at 2,000 rpm for 3 hours, followed by filtration, which gave microcapsules of 5 to 80 µm in size. In this example, the W O emulsion had a viscosity of about 0,18 Pas 180 cp . The take up of cefotiam into the microcapsules amounted to 85 . Leuprolide 450 mg and 90 mg of gelatin were dissolved in 1 ml of distilled water to give an aqueous phase. A solution of 4 g of lactic acid glycolic acid copolymer lactic acid glycolic acid 75 mole 25 mole , weight average molecular weight 14,000 in a mixture of 6 ml of methylene chloride and 1.5 ml of n pentane was used as the oil phase. The aqueous phase was gradually added to the oil phase while stirring at room temperature with a turbine shaped mixer. The thus produced W O emulsion showed a viscosity of 0.07 Pas 70 cp at 24 C A 0.5 aqueous solution of polyvinyl alcohol 500 ml was cooled to 15 C. Into this solution, there was injected gradually the above W O emulsion while stirring with a homogenizer. The thus produced W O W emulsion was stirred gently with a propeller shaped stirrer at room temperature for about 4 hours to thereby cause evaporation of methylene chloride and n pentane and solidification of the oil phase. The oil phase in solid form was collected by centrifugation. The leuprolidecontaining microcapsules thus obtained were rinsed with water and lyophilized into a powder. The take up of leuprolide into the microcapsules amounted to 89 . Leuprolide 495 mg and 80 mg of gelatin were dissolved in 0.5 ml of distilled water to give an aqueous phase. A solution of 3,970 mg of lactic acid glycolic acid copolymer lactic acid glycolic acid 75 mole 25 mole , weight average molecular weight 14,000 in 5.5 ml of methylene chloride was used as the oil phase. The aqueous phase was gradually added to the oil phase while stirring at room temperature with a turbine shaped mixer and the emulsion was cooled to 18 C. The thus produced W O emulsion showed a viscosity of 0.31 Pas 310 cp . A 0.1 aqueous solution of polyvinyl alcohol 1,000 ml was cooled to 18 C. Into this solution, there was injected gradually the above W O emulsion while stirring with a homogenizer. The thus produced W O W emulsion was stirred gently with a propellershaped stirrer at room temperature for about 3 hours to thereby cause evaporation of methylene chloride and solidification of the oil phase. The oil phase in solid form was collected by centrifugation. The leuprolide containing microcapsules thus obtained were rinsed with water and lyophilized into a powder. The take up of leuprolide into the microcapsules amounted to 94 .