# Device at shelter.

## Abstract
Shelter intended to be arranged in a slope with an end side 2 projecting out of the slope. At the end side 2 the shelter body is provided with a door and a V shaped protective wall 4 with the apex of the V turned away from the shelter. The V shaped protective wall is at top and bottom connected with the shelter and on both sides is an opening between the protecting wall and the shelter end side for passage to and from the shelter.

## Claims
WHAT I CLAIM IS 1. Device at shelter, c h a r a c t e r i z e d i n t h a t in front of the door of the shelter is arranged a V shapedr protecting wal with its apex turned away from the door and with exit and entrance passages between the legs of the V and the wall in which the door is arranged. 2. Shelter according to claim 1, c h a r a c t e r i z e d i n that the V shaped wall is connected with the shelter with a roof member. 3. Shelter according to claim 1 or 2, c h a r a c t e รง r i z e d i n that the protecting wall is connected with the shelter by a floor member. 4. Shelter according to any of the previous claims, c h a r a c t e r i z e d i n that the shelter has laterally directed supports to prevent the shelter from turning over sideways whenfurcefully influenced.

## Description
Device at shelter This invention is in particular concerned with shelters intended for use a short time and for. a moderate number of persons, for instance 5 30 days and fdr 24 32 persons, i.e. a near shelter intended to be located in connection with residential neighbourhoods or the like with concentrated building. The development and spreading of nuclear weapons means that to a certain extent other problems result than those previouslytakenintoaccount at the building of shelters. The fact is that previous shelters have been built with considerations to resistance against expolsive forces and against shivers. At a nuclear explosion however further phenomena occur that the shelter must be able to resist. At an occuring nuclear explosion provided that this takes place at some distance , first a combined light and heatwave reaches the shelter and and this radiation ignites everything combustable and results in a heating. Thereafter a shock wave of great dimensions come.This shock wave is dangerous in many ways, to start with it can tear along loose things and secondly it can result in pushing in or sucking out doors. Furthermore within sometime a ground wave arrive, that nearest can be compared with an earth quake and since this nearest ressembla the phenomena that can take place att powerful close hits with conventional bombs it is also against the shock wave that conventional shelters provide an acceptable protection. Concerning the light and heatradiation wave and the shock wave conventional shelters are however not sufficient. The object of the invention is to cure the above mentioned inconveniences and give a shelter that in a satisfactory way can resist shock wave as well as radiation from a nuclear explosion. This is achieved by in front of the door of the shelter is provided a V shaped protecting wall with the apex of the V directed away from the door and with exit openings between the legs of the V and the door provided wall oftheshelter. In a preferable further development of the invention the wall is on its upper side connected with the roof of the shelter and at the bottom with the floor of the shelter so that a good pressure relieving of the shock wave is obtained. In this way the V shaped protecting wall takes the forces from the shock wave simultanously.with the diminution of these due to theV shape at a shock wave direction straight against the door of the shelter.With a somewhat more oblige line of incident for the shock wave this is partly taken by the protecting wall and partly led through the double openings, which primarily diminish the risk of pressure or va c uum on the shelter door and secondly diminish the risk of items carried along by the shock wave being collected outside the door. Also if the explosion of a nuclear weapon takes place on the other side of the shelter, the shock wave is prevented from giving an excesive force on the shelter door due to the protective wall that gives a leveling between the pressure wave and the subsequent subpressure wave. Further advantages and details of the invention are apparent from the following description in connection with the drawing showing an embodiment of the invention. As is apparent from the drawing the shelter according to the invention includes an elongate shelter body 1, which preferably is arranged in a slope with one end 2 and therein arranged door 3 projecting from the slope. Outside the side end 2 a V shaped protective wall 4 is arranged with the apex 5 of the V turned away from the shelter. The V shaped protective wall is at top ana bottom connected with the shelter in order to secure a good support for the protective wall. The shelter is side ways of the end side extending out of the slope provided with lateral supports 6 and 7 respectively, with the object of preventing the shelter from rolling around sideways, on forceful outer influence. Furthermore the lateral supports serve as support for the earth masses in the slope. If so desired the angle shaped protective wall can be provided with ports for shooting without this influencing its function as a shock wave breaking member. If so desired the protective wall may on its outside also be patterned in order to brake the flow of the air over the surface so that an even better wedgeeffect is achieved than that corresponding to theV shape itself.