# THERMOPLASTIC RESIN COMPOSITION

## Claims
Thermoplastische Harzmasse, umfassend

## Description
This invention relates to a thermoplastic resin composition having excellent transparency and ultraviolet light permeability. Thermoplastic resins having good transparency such as polystyrene, polymethyl methacrylate, polycarbonate and poly 4 methyl 1 pentene , because of their lighter weight and higher impact strength than glass, have recently found extensive use as a substitute for glass in transparent containers, instruments and appliances used in chemical experiments e.g., beakers and measuring cylinders , injection syringes, optical cells, and window panes. Above all, poly 4 methyl 1 pentene has good heat resistance and permeability to ultraviolet light in addition to its good transparency, and is useful as a material for optical cells. Although poly 4 methyl 1 pentene and other thermoplastic resins having excellent transparency have almost the same ultraviolet light transmittance as ordinary glass, i.e. soda glass, they have the defect of possessing a much lower ultraviolet light transmittance than quartz glass. Furthermore, poly 4 methyl 1 pentene is obtained by polymerization in the presence of a Ziegler catalyst, and is slightly reddish although having excellent transparency. It is an object of this invention to provide a poly 4 methyl 1 pentene composition having excellent transparency and a high ultraviolet light transmittance and being free from a reddish color. Another object of this invention is to provide a poly 4 methyl 1 pentene composition having a high ultraviolet transmittance and being free from a reddish color while retaining the excellent properties inherent to poly 4 methyl 1 pentene such as heat resistance, heat aging resistance and transparency. Other objects and advantages of this invention will become apparent from the following description. According to the invention, the above objects and advantages are achieved by a thermoplastic resin composition comprising A a homopolymer of 4 methyl 1 pentene or a copolymer of 4 methyl 1 pentene with another alpha olefin B 1 to 100 ppm of a blue pigment C 0.5 to 15 ppm of a black pigment and or D 0.01 to 5 ppm of a red pigment. The 4 methyl 1 pentene polymer A used in this invention may be a crystalline homopolymer of 4 methyl 1 pentene or a crystalline copolymer of it with another alpha olefin. The other alpha olefin preferably has 2 to 20 carbon atoms and includes, for example, ethylene, propylene, 1 butene, 1 hexene, 1 octene, 1 decene, 1 tetradecene and 1 octadecene. The 4 methyl 1 pentene copolymer preferably contains at least 85 mole , especially at least 90 mole , of 4 methyl 1 pentene units. The 4 methyl 1 pentene polymer A preferably has a melt flow rate MFR , measured at a temperature of 260 C under a load of 5 kg, of 0.5 to 200 g 10 min., especially 5 to 50 g 10 min. The 4 methyl 1 pentene polymer A can be produced by polymerizing 4 methyl 1 pentene with or without the other alpha olefin in the presence of a Ziegler catalyst comprising a titanium catalyst component and an organoaluminum catalyst component. The polymers so produced are typical examples to which the present invention applies. The blue pigment B used in this invention is incorporated in an amount of 1 to 100 ppm, preferably 5 to 50 ppm, in the thermoplastic resin composition of this invention. The blue pigment may be organic or inorganic, and include, for example, ultramarine, cobalt blue, cerulean blue, phthalocyanine blue and indanthrene blue. Those having an absorption peak in a wavelength region of 400 to 600 nm, especially 450 to 650 nm, are preferred. The black pigment C is preferably used in an amount of 1 to 10 ppm, and the red pigment D in an amount of 0.05 to 1 ppm. Preferably, the resin composition of this invention contains the blue pigment B , the black pigment C and the red pigment D in the above mentioned amounts. It is preferable for the composition of this invention to contain all of the above pigments B , C and D in a total amount of 6 to 110 ppm, especially in a total amount of 10 to 50 ppm. Preferred black pigments include, for example, carbon black, graphite and black iron oxide. Preferred red pigments include, for example, red organic and inorganic pigments such as red iron oxide, red iron oxide powder, cadmium red, alizarin lake, anthraquinone red, mercury red, permanent red F5R, chromophthal red, isoindolinone red, quinacridone red and pyrazolone red. Most preferably, the resin composition of this invention contains ultramarine, black iron oxide and quinacridone red as pigments. This composition especially have excellent heat stability, light stability, bleed out resistance, chemical resistance, water resistance, boiling water resistance and hygienic property as well as excellent transparency. The use of the blue pigment B , together with the black pigment C and or the red pigment D , has the effect of emphasizing the transparency of the thermoplastic resin composition of this invention and hiding discoloration that may occur with time. The thermoplastic resin composition of this invention can be obtained by mixing the 4 methyl 1 pentene polymer A and the blue pigment B together with the black pigment C and or the red pigment D in the proportions described hereinabove by various known methods, for example in a Henschel mixer, a V blender or a tumbler blender, thereafter melt kneading the mixture by, for example, a single screw extruder, a twin screw extruder, a kneader or a Banbury mixer, and granulating or pulverizing the mixture. The addition of the pigments to the 4 methyl 1 pentene polymer A may be effected, for example, by a so called dry coloring method comprising treating the pigments with a surface treating agent and mixing them directly with the 4 methyl 1 pentene polymer, or a so called master batch method comprising dispersing the pigments in the same type of polymer in high concentrations, and adding the resulting master batch to the 4 methyl 1 pentene polymer. Since the amounts of the pigments added to the thermoplastic resin composition of this invention are very small, the master batch method is preferred. It is easy by this method to adjust the dispersion non uniformity of the pigments and the amounts of the pigments added. Known additives ordinarily used for thermoplastic resins, such as heat stabilizers, weatherability stabilisers, lubricants, antiblocking agents, and nucleating agents, may be incorporated in the thermoplastic resin composition in amounts which do not detract from the objects of this invention. The thermoplastic resin composition has improved ultraviolet permeability and an excellent color without impairing the inherent transparency of the 4 methyl 1 pentene polymer. The thermoplastic resin composition of this invention may have a Hunter s L value, a value and b value, measured by the methods to be described hereinbelow, of 50 to 95, 3 to 3, and 15 to 10, respectively, and preferably 60 to 80, 2 to 2 and 10 to 5, respectively, and a light transmittance, measured in accordance with the method described hereinbelow, of 60 to 99.5 , preferfably 80 to 99 . It gives a very beautiful transparency feeling to humans. Furthermore, since the inherent heat stability, boiling water resistance, chemical resistance and hygienic property of the polymer are not at all deteriorated, the composition of this invention is useful as a material for containers used in contact with foods such as heat resistant tableware, articles used for medical therapy, instruments used in physical and chemical experiments, electrical and electronic component parts, and optical articles such as discs and fibers. The following examples illustrate the present invention more specifically. In the following examples, the master batches and resin compositions contained about 0.25 by weight of tetrakis methylene 3 3,5 di t butyl 4 hydroxyphenyl propionate methane, about 0.3 by weight of pentaerythritol tetra lauryl thiopropionate and about 0.05 by weight of zinc stearate. A 4 methyl 1 pentene 1 decene crystalline copolymer prepared in the presence of a titanium type Ziegler catalyst and having a 4 methyl 1 pentene content of 95.8 mole and an MFR, measured in accordance with ASTM D 1238 at a temperature of 260 C and under a load of 5 Kg, of 26 g 10 min. was mixed individually with 0.5 by weight of ultramarine, 0.1 by weight of black iron oxide and 0.01 by weight of quinacridone red, and then melt kneaded in an extruder having a screw diameter of 65 mm molding temperature 260 C to produce an ultramarine master batch MB I , a black iron oxide master batch MB II and a quinacridone red master batch MB III . To the same copolymer as above were added 0.4 by weight of MB I, 0.5 by weight of MB II and 0.1 by weight of MB III, and they were mixed by a Henschel mixer. The mixture was melt kneaded and granulated in an extruder having a screw diameter of 65 mm molding temperature 260 C to give a granular poly 4 methyl 1 pentene composition PMP I . The PMP I was molded by an injection molding machine M100, Meiki Co. LTD., Japan under conditions including cylinder temperatures of C₁ 280 The following properties of the injection molded rectangular plates were evaluated. The results are shown in Table 1. Measured by a two wavelength self recording spectrophotometer. The sample was left to stand in a Geer s oven of the hot air circulating type heated at 150 C, and the time which elapsed until cracks occur was measured. The sample was immersed in boiling water. It was taken out after a predetermined period of time, and its outside appearance was visually evaluated. The sample was placed in an autoclave for pressurized steam sterilization and left to stand at 121 The copolymer used in Example 1 was injection molded without adding the pigment master batches. The properties of the rectangular plate sample were evaluated as in Example 1. The results are shown in Table 1. Ultramarine, black iron oxide and quinacridone master batches having the same pigment concentrations as in Example 1 were prepared in the same way as in Example 1 except that a 4 methyl 1 pentene hexadecene octadecene crystalline copolymer having an MFR of 26 g 10 min. 4 methyl 1 pentene content 89 mole was used instead of the copolymer used in Example 1. A thermoplastic resin composition having the same pigment concentrations as in Example 1 was prepared as in Example 1 PMP II . The properties of the PMP II were evaluated in the same way as in Example 1. The results are shown in Table 1. Comparative Example 1 was repeated except that the copolymer used in Example 2 was used instead of the copolymer used in Comparative Example 1. A resin composition PMP III was prepared in the same way as in Example 1 except that only master batch MB I was added in the same amount to the copolymer. The properties of PMP III were evaluated in the same way as in Example 1. The results are shown in Table 1.