# Purifying liquid cleanser comprising antiseptics.

## Abstract
This invention relates to a cosmetic liquid cleanser for the treatment of blemished, scarred or inflamed skin with acne comedones . In particular there is described a cosmetic liquid cleans er comprising boric acid or borax 0.1 5.5 by weight , camphora 0.02 1.2 by weight , ammonium hydroxide 0.001 1.1 by volume , a peroxide 0.05 2.0 by volume and optionally salicyclic acid 0.1 5.5 by weight , the bal ance consisting of additives commonly used in the cosmetic industry.

## Claims
CtAftS I. A cosmetic product comprising O.I 5.5 by weight of Boric Acid Ammonium Hydroxide in amount of O.OI 0,8 by volume , Camphora in amount of 0.02 1.2 by weight and Hydrogen Peroxide in amount of 0.07 I.I by volume , the balance consisting of additives commonly used in the cosmetic industry. 2. A cosmetic product as claimed in claim I wherein said additives comprise Necadas 50 and Aqua Distillata. 3. h cosmetic product substentially as herein before described and illustrated in examples.

## Description
This invention relates to a cosmetic for the treatment of blemished, scarred or inflamed skin with acne comedones . The particular effectivity of this cosmetic product consists in its independent action upon skin, irrespective of the blemishes origin hormonal condition, mood, food quality, condition of the digestive system and independent of drugs, such as antibiotics, vitamines, hormoval drugs, etc. The first cosmetic products that come into contact with our skin are of the cleansing and protecting kind. The skin of most children during the early years is healthy, soft, free from spots and blemishes and requires little care other that regular cleansing. At the onset of puberty, however, the skin becomes susceptible to a renge of problems, most of wich can be attributed to over activity of the oilproducing sebaceous glands. It has been proved that more than 50g of those. effected by excessive spots pimples, blackheads acne and related conditions ar.e adolescents between I2 and 18. The sebaceous glands together with the muscular, nervous and vascular systems are colléètively known as the pilosebaceous apparatus and are largely under the control of endogenous hormones wich are present in unusually high concentration.in the blood during adolescence and puberty. The corresponding increase in activity of the sebaceous glands themselves gives rise to the production of excessive amounts of sebum.This causes an oiliness of the skin and an increase in the rate of keretlnization of the skin s horny layer the stratum corneum . The horny cells lining the sebaceous follicles also proliferate they become tightly packed and can forum an occlusive plug or comedone. This physical barrier, coupled with the increased production of sebum, leads to a rapid accumulation of back pressure and the stagnant sebum forms an ideal medium for the proliferation of bacteria Staphylococcus albus, Staphylococcus aureus and Corynebacterium acnes .When the plugged follicle ruptures and allows the discharge of its contents, local swelling and inflamation are causes. So far no topically active substance has yet been found capably. Acne is usually treated by vitamin A, antibiotics Tetracycline , various hormonal drugs, subcutaneus hormonal injection.I Acidum Boricum has been used for many years in various substances and compositions of drugs. AcidumBoricum is an antiseptic used in vitro in appropirate dosage.2 Ammonium Hydroxide is commonly used for skin disinfection.3 Camphora is extracted from Laurus, 5. CinnamomumCamphora and is an antiseptic.4 Hydrogen Peroxide ia excellent antibacterial agent. Hydrogen Peroxide is used for skin disinfection. I have now surprisingly succeeded to prepare a highly effective cosmetic product based on the four components described above. It is the purpose of the present invention to provide for a cosmetic product consisting mainly ofAcidum Boricum, Ammonium Hydroxide, Camphora, HydrogenPeroxide as mentioned above, and to utilize to its full extent the active agents contained in the substance, particularly Acidum Boricum, Ammonium Hydroxide, Camphora,Hydrogen Peroxide. These four components form a singular compound entering the invented composition which has been used with high successes. The 4 components are the elements most effective for local external treatment of problem skin blemished with scars acne, comedoness . The compound of these four elements Acidum Boric, Ammonium Hydroxide CAmphora, Hydrogen Peroxide is the active agent of the Purifying Liquid Clenser, wich latter has been prepared according to conventional cosmetic methods. Due to its exceptional composition, the PurifyingLiquid Cleanser thoroughly clerrnses the skin and disinfects the pimpled areas to the maximal extent.This cleanser decreases the secretion of sebum, prevents accumulation of secretion products sn the pores and thus prevents the formation of comedones and pimples. Hereunder are the conclusions about the effect upon problem skin of the invention containing Acidum Boric, Ammonium Hydroxide, Camphora, Hydrogen Peroxides These conclusions are based uion results received in experimental treatment of a group of patients.I. Problem skin blemished with scars, pimples, comedones, blocked with grease ie freed from all these problem as a result of the treatment, the length of the period of treatment needed varying individually and in proportion to the degree of.gravity of the situation. The product entails no addiction after the treatment is terminated the patients continue using other cosmetic products. these results are valid for patients aged IS 22 .. 2. The skin is freed from blemishes with no traces left such as scars or creases except for cases where the skin is damaged by other treatment or product.3. Patients with skin blemished with scars or blotches previous to treatment were relieved from these.Creases disappear completely in all cases, wherreas the removal of scars or improvement of scarred skin depends on the individual case and is in inverse proportion to the scars long standing previous to treatment with thisCosmetic Liquid Censer. 4. Treatment with this product at an early stage in ages I2 I4 prevents acne completely. 5. The cleanser containing these 4 components has as its singular advantage the fact of its being the only necessary agent during the period of treatment no suplementary dietary or medical treatment need be involved. The abovementioned results are true for a. . a group of patents whose skin problems were never treated before b. a group of patients whose case history reveals that conventional medical or cosmetic treatment was of no avail. According to the invention, about O.I 5.5 by weight calculated on the total weight of the product, of Boric Acid are added to 0.01 0.8 by volume of Ammonium Hydroxide, 0.02 I.2 by weight ofCamphora, 0.07 I.I by volume of Hydrogen Peroxide. The cosmetic compositions according to the invention are prepared by methods known per se in cosmetic technology. Without limiting the scope of the invention several examples are given hereunder to illustrate the cosmetic product according to the invention EXAMPLE I PURIFYING LIQUID CLEANSER Necadas 50 35.00 parts by weight Boric Acid O.I0 n Aqua Distillata 64.00. n volume Ammonium Hydroxide O.OI 3 3 Camphora 0.02 weight Hydrogen Peroxide 0.07 volume I00.00 EXAMPLE II PURIFIYING LIQUID CLEANSER Necadas 50 35.00 parts by weight Boric acid 6.10 n n n Aqua Distillata 55.00 volume Camphora 1.2 3 weight Hydrogen Peroxide I.I0 volume Ammonium Hydroxide I.60 ii I00.00 Experiments wich have been carried out with the composition according to the invention have shorn that the products are well stabilized and effective after several years storage under normal temperature conditions. Information in this paragraph is fromP. Alexander, S. F. Bloomfield et al., ets Harry s Cosmeticplogy. George Godwin I982, 7th edition , Chapter Nine.