# Method of making imide precursor compositions for polyimide coatings and adhesives.

## Abstract
A method of making an imide resin composition comprises a mixing at least one lactam and or amino acid component A with at least one aromatic dianhydride component B in a mole ratio of A B of up to 10 1, b mixing a solvent with the mixture from step a and heating the resulting mixture, and c mixing at least one diamine component C with the product of step b to give a solution of the imide precursor which forms a polyimide upon heating.

## Claims
Claims 1. A method of making an imide precursor composition, which comprises a mixing at least one lactam and or amino acid component A with at least one aromatic dianhydride component B in a mole ratio of A B of up to 10 1, b mixing a solvent with the mixture from step a and heating the resulting mixture, and c mixing at least one diamine componentC with the product of step b to give a solution of the imide precursor which forms a polyimide upon heating. 2. A method according to claim 1, in which component A is a lactam of the formula EMI14.1 where x is an integer of from 2 to 7. 3. A method according to claim 1, in which component A is 2 pyrrolidone, 2 piperidone, caprolactam, 4 aminobutyric acid, 5 aminovaleric acid, 6 aminocaproic acid, or a mixture of two or more thereof. 4. A method according to any of claims 1 to 3, in which component B is pyromellitic dianhydride and or 3,3 ,4,4 benzophenone tetracarboxylic acid dianhydride. 5. A method according to any of claims 1 to 4, in which the solvent is an alcohol, an N,N dialkyl carboxyamide, a ketone, or a mixture of two or more thereof. 6. A method according to claim 5, in which the solvent is N,N dimethylformamide. 7. A method according to any of claims 1 to 6, in which component C is 3,3 diaminodiphenylmethane, 4,4 diaminodiphenylmethane, m phenylenediamine, phenylenediamine, 3,3 diaminodiphenyl sulphone, 4,4 diaminodiphenyl sulphone, 4,4 diaminodiphenyl ether, or a mixture of two or more thereof. 8. A method according to any of claims 1 to 6, in which component C is 1,3 diaminopropane, 1,4diaminobutane, 1,6 diaminohexane, 1,8 diaminooctane, 1,12 diaminododecane, or a mixture of two or more thereof. 9. A method according to any of claims 1 to 6, in which component C is at least 50 mol ez aromatic. 10. A method according to any of claims 1 to 9, in which the solution of imide precursor has a solids content of from 10 to 60, by weight. 11. A method according to any of claims 1 to 10, which includes the additional step of drying the solution of imide precursor to a powder. 12. A method according to claim 11, which includes the further additional step of dissolving the dry powder in a solvent. 13. A method of forming a coating on the surface of a substrate, in which the imide precursor composition made by the method according to any of claims 1 to 12 is applied to the surface of a substrate and the coated substrate is heated to form a smooth highly adherent coating. 14. A method of bonding together two surfaces, in which the imide precursor composition made by the method according to any of claims 1 to 12 is applied to at least one of the surfaces, the two surfaces are pressed together with moderate pressure, and the assembly is heated to bond together the two surfaces.

## Description
Method of making imide precursor compositions for polyimide coatings and adhesives. The present invention is concerned with polyimide coatings and adhesives and, more particularly, with methods and compositions for producing imide precursors and polyimides for use as adhesives and coatings. A number of different imide based coating and adhesive compositions have been described in prior patents, such as those described in t.S. Patents 4161477, 4183838, and 4183139. These known polyimideforming compositions and methods give polyimide coatings and adhesives suitable for some applications, but a number of problems limit the usefulness of such poly imides. The coating compositions of the prior art often do not adhere well to both metallic and nonmetallic surfaces especially when fillers are used, and the adhesive compositions often have low peel strength, especially at elevated temperatures. Furthermore, the starting materials of the knolfn compositions require high reaction temperatures and or long periods at elevated temperatures to produce the imide precursors and special vessels or reactors suitable for this purpose are very costly and the processes are time consuming. Thus there is a need for improved polyimide coatings and adhesives and for improed processes for making such compositions. We have now developed a method for the production of imide precursor compositions and polyimide coatings and adhesives which reduces or avoids the problems of the prior art mentioned above. The present invention provides a method of making imide precursors which uses relatively low temperatures and short heating periods, and gives polyimide coatings and adhesives having superior physical properties including freedom from pinholes, bubbles and similar defects, high peel resistance and resistance to abrasion and high temperatures. Furthermore, the polyimide forming compositions of the present invention have improved shelf lives, adhere well to a variety of metallic and non metallic substrates and to shape edges, and can be applied using a variety of solvents and conventional coating techniques. According to the present invention, therefore, there is provided a method of making an imide precursor composition, which comprises a mixing at least one lactam and or amino acid component A with at least one aromatic dianhydride component B in a mole ratio of A B of up to 10 1, b mixing a solvent with the mixture from step a and heating the resulting mixture, and c mixing at least one diamine componentC with the product of step b to give a solution of the imide precursor which forms a polyimide upon heating. The preferred method according to the present invention comprises mixing at least one lactam and or amino acid and a dianhydride in a suitable solvent, maintaining the mixture at a temperature of from 30 0C to 1200C and stirring until solution is complete about 30 to 120 minutes , cooling the solution to a 0 temperature of about 20 C to 600C, then adding a suitable diamine or mixture of diamines and stirring until solution is complete about 30 to 60 minutes .As already stated, the mole ratio of lactam and or amino acid to dianhydride is up to 10 1. With more than 10 moles of lactam and or amino acid per mole of dianhydride, the compositions obtained do not have good adhesion characteristics this is primarily caused by free amino acid liberated during the high temperature curing reaction. However, mole ratios of lactam and or amino acid to dianhydride of up to 10 1 produce compositions which avoid this deficiency and give superior characteristics as adhesives. The resulting imide precursors can be stored as solutions or can be dried to powders. For best results, the mixture of lactam and or amino acid and dianhydride is initially held at a temperature of from 900 to 1000C, followed by cooling to a temperature of 400 to 500C. The solution or powder or powder redissolved in any suitable solvent may be coated on to a substrate by any suitable method and is then heated to a temperature of from 1750 to 320 0C for a period of 30 minutes to 5 hours, depending upon the temperature employed, to convert the imide precursor to high molecular weight polyimide. When used as an adhesive, the precursor composition is pressed with moderate pressure between the surfaces to be bonded whilst curing is taking place. Typical curing conditions are 5 hours at 1770C, 3 hours at 30C, 2 hours at 2600C or 30 minutes at 316 C. If desired, staged curing temperatures can advantageously be employed, especially in laminating applications. A preferred curing cycle of this character is 2 hours at 1490C, 3 hours at 2040C, and 1 hour at 31600. Preferred lactams for use in the method of the invention are those of the formula EMI4.1 where x is an integer of from 2 to 7. Lactams in which x 2, 3, or 4 i.e. 2 pyrrolidone, 2 piperidone, or caprolactam respectively are particularly preferred and, of these, caprolactam is the most preferred. Preferred aminoacids are those derived from the three preferred lactams, namely 6 aminocaproic acid, 5 aminovaleric acid, and 4 aminobutyric acid. The preferred lactams and amino acids may each be used alone or two or more of them may be combined in any suitable mixture. A wide variety of dianhydrides can be used in the method of the present invention. Suitable dianhydrides include those disclosed in U.S. Patents 3282897 and 3310506. Preferred dianhydrides for use in the method of the invention are pyromellitic dianhydride and or 3,3 ,4,4 benzophenone tetracarboxylic acid dianhydride BTDA . The preference for these two dianhydrides is based principally upon their availability in commerical quantities at reasonable prices. A variety of aromatic diamines, aromatic diamines with aliphatic groups in the molecule, and aliphatic diamines may be used in preparing the imide precursors of the present invention. For high temperature applications, aliphatic diamines are avoided because the aliphatic moiety may have an adverse effect on thermal stability. Suitable diamines for use in the method of the invention include, for example, m phenylenediamine, phenylenediamine, 4,4 diaminodiphenyl ether, 4,4 diaminodiphenyl sulfone, 3 , 3 diaminodiphenyl sulfone, 4,4 diaminodiphenylmethane, and 3,3 diaminodiphenylmethane, and mixtures of two or more thereof. Other suitable diamines which may be employed alone and in various mixtures are disclosed in U.S.Patents 3282897, 3310506, and 3391120 they include 1,3 diaminopropane, 1,4 diaminobutane, 1,6 diaminohexane, 1,8 diaminooctane, 1,12 diaminododecane, and mixtures of two or more thereof. hthile all of the diamine components used may be aliphatic, it is preferred that at least 50mol z of the diamine component should be aromatic. Any suitable mixture of polar or non polar solvents may be used in the method of the invention.The solvent may be aliphatic or aromatic and may include amino or halogen substituents. Solvents which are preferred because of their relatively low cost, wide availability, low boiling points, and minimal undesirable properties include aliphatic and aromatic alcohols, N,N dialkylcarboxyamides, ketones, and mixtures of two or more thereof. Any suitable quantity of solvent may be used, but the preferred mol ratio of solvent to dianhydride is from 5 1 to 10 1. The quantity of solvent should preferably be sufficient to produce a final resin having a solids content of between 10 and 60sic by weight.Excess solvent tends to produce low viscosity resins which tend to drip when coated, while insufficient solvent results in very viscous liquids which are difficult to use. If required, additional solvent can be added after completion of the imide forming reaction to reduce the viscosity of the composition. If desired, the solvent can be evaporated from the solution of the imide precursor using spray drying or other conventional techniques to give a solid product. This is not necessary, however, as the solutions are stable at room temperature and can be stored indefinitely. The solid product can be redissolved in any suitable solvent. The solutions of the invention can be applied to a variety of suitable substrates. Typical substrates include stainless steels, aluminium, titanium, copper, steel and other metals, glasses, plastics, and substrates with complicated geometrical configurations.The solution may be applied by conventional and relatively inexpensive techniques such as dip or spray coating. The coating compositions of the invention are preferably applied at a thickness of not more than 3 mm for a single application. Thicker single applications may result in pinholes and other flaws in the final coating. Thicker coatings can, however, readily be produced by building up the coating thickness in two or more applications. A second lamina can be bonded to the coated substrate by pressing the surfaces of the two laminae together and heating the assembly at a temperature of 0 as low as 170 0 at a pressure of as low as 345kPa for approximately one second. The adhesion characteristics of the coating or adhesive can be improved by the use of selected additives and or adhesion promoters. Preferred adhesion promoters are the products obtained from the reaction between an aromatic acid dianhydride and an alkoxysilane with a terminal primary amino group.Preferred dianhydrides are 3,3 ,4,4 benzopheno netetracarboxylic acid dianhydride and pyromellitic dianhydride a preferred silane is aminopropyltri ethoxysilane. However, other dianhydrides can be employed, including those disclosed in the patents mentioned above. Similarly, other silanes having terminal primary amino groups may be used. These adhesion promoters may be used in any suitable amounts. Preferred amounts give a mol ratio of adhesion promoter to diamine component of less than or equal to 0.1 1.0 in the final composition. Higher proportions of the adhesion promoter produce greater adhesion, but may cause brittleness and are accordingly generally used only in applications where more brittle coatings can be tolerated. The coating and adhesive compositions of the present invention possess an outstanding degree of wettability. As a consequence, a virtually limitless variety of organic and inorganic fillers may be added to the composition to promote desirable characteristics in the polymer and or to provide it with additional desirable characteristics. Preferred fillers include fluorinated hydrocarbons e.g. Teflon , powdered aluminium, copper, steel, chromium oxide, aluminium phosphate, aluminium chromate, powdered glass, magnesium phosphate, and mixtures of two or more thereof. The filler may be added by any suitable conventional means. Typically it may simply be milled into the imide precursor in a ball mill at room temperature until the mixture becomes homogeneous. The amount of filler added to a particular composition will of course vary according to the application and will depend upon the nature of the filler, the purpose for which it is incorporated, and other factors. A weight ratio of filler to resin of as high as 2.5 1 can be employed without resin starvation and consequent formation of a soft and porous coating, but a 1 1 ratio tends to give the best results. Higher ratios can be employed in applications where a resin starved composition is required or acceptable, but such compositions are not employed to any great extent in the applications for which the compositions of the invention are best suited. A particularly preferred filler is a mixture of from 8 to 20 parts of aluminium hydroxide, from 15 to 50 parts of magnesium oxide, and from 150 to 300 parts of phosphoric acid, which is used in a weight ratio of filler to resin of 1 1. This filler imparts outstanding high temperature resistance to the final coating or adhesive. Any suitable flow control agents and wetting agents can also be added to the resin to improve the properties of the resulting coating or adhesive. Furthermore, the compositions of the present invention possess good solubility and can therefore be applied by a wide variety of coating techniques. Also, as mentioned above, the coatings of the invention can be applied to sharp edges and to complex shapes. This is due primarily to their good wettability and adhesion. In order that the invention may be more fully understood, the following examples are given by way of illustration only.Example 1 3,3 ,4,4 4enzophenonetetracarboxylic acid dianhydride BTDA 322 g, 1.0 mole , N,N dimethyl formamide 500 g and caprolactam 30 g, 0.265 mole were placed in a two litre flask and the mixture heated to a temperature of between 300 and 1200C and maintained at that temperature for 60 minutes. 4,4 Diaminodiphenyl ether 200 g, 1.0 mole was then added and the mixture stirred for 10 minutes at 550C to produce a viscous liquid. A mixture 800 g consisting of equal parts by weight of acetone, methylisobutyl ketone, and N,N dimethylacetamide was then added and the mixture stirred at 400C for 1 hour to give an homogenous solution. The resulting product was useful as a coating and adhesive, as exemplified below, and possessed an indefinite shelf life.Example 2 The composition of Example 1 was sprayed on to 410 stainless steel panels using a De Vilbiss spray gun with an F fluid tip at an air pressure of 50 psi. The 0 coating was dried at 120 C for 10 minutes, evaporating the carrier and producing a tough, hard, abrasion resistance coating having a thickness of about 3 mm.The coating was found to have excellent coating continuity. Thereafter, the coating was cured at a temperature of 3160C for 30 minutes to effect the imide reactions. The coating became even harder and was found to be resistant to solvents, oils, acids, and salt sprays and to elevated temperatures. Example 3 The composition of Example 1 was sprayed on to two aluminium panels. The resin was dried at 1200C for 10 minutes, evaporating the carrier and producing a hard coating. The coated surfaces of the two aluminium panels were pressed together and the assembly placed in a press preheated to 2200C 689kPa pressure was then applied. The aluminium panels were kept under these conditions for 30 minutes. After cooling, the sample was removed from the press and found to be well bonded. The bonded panel was then post cured at 2600C for one to five hours in an electrically heated oven.The shear strength of the adhesive layer was greater than 6895kPa.Example 4 To demonstrate the usefulness of fillers in the polyimide coating compositions of the invention, 13 parts by weight of aluminium hydroxide, 30 parts by weight of magnesium oxide, and 240 parts by weight of phosphoric acid were mixed at 10000. Seventy parts by weight of N,N dimethylformamide were then milled into this mixture and the resulting mixture was blended with 400 parts by weight of the resin produced according to the method of Example 1. The composition obtained was spray coated on to a stainless steel panel using the method described inExample 2. The coating was cured at 3160c for 30 minutes to effect the imide reactions and produce a polyimide of the formula EMI10.1 where n is a positive integer. The coating was found to be resistant to 0 sustained temperatures of 320 C periodically increased to temperatures as high as 5400C.Example 5 The procedure described in Example 4 was repeated using as an additive or filler a composition containing 30 parts by weight of the filler mixture described in Example 4, 70 parts by weight of N dimethylacetamide, and 30 parts by weight of finely pulverised aluminium powder. This mixture was blended with 400 parts by weight of the resin of Example 1 and the product was coated on to a stainless steel panel and cured according to the procedure described inExample 2. The cured coating was hard and resistant to 0 temperatures as high as 320 C periodically increased to 5400c. Example 6 To demonstrate how thicker coatings can be produced than that obtained from the single application described in Example 2, the procedure was repeated three times applying three 1 2 mm coatings of the Example 1 formulation and drying the coating at 9500 in an air circulating oven after each application. After the third application had dried, the coating was cured for 1 hour at 149 C, 2 hours at 2320C, 30 minutes at 2600C and 30 minutes at 316 C. A fully cured, homogenous coating was obtained.Example 7 In order to demonstrate that other aromatic diamines can be used to form the imide precursors of the invention, the method described in Example 1 was repeated using 248 g 1.0 mole of 4,4 diaminodiphenyl sulfone in place of the 4,4 diaminophenyl ether. The final resin solution or coating composition was stable at room temperature and yielded excellent light coloured coatings.Example 8 The suitability of a diamine mixture instead of a single diamine for preparing the imide precursors of the invention is demonstrated by repeating the method described in Example 1 using a mixture of 4,4 diamino diphenylmethane 99.1 S1 0.5 mole and phenylene diamine 59 g, 0.5 mole in place of the 4,4 diamino phenyl ether. The final resin or coating solution was stable at room temperature and produced coatings which possessed outstanding abrasion resistance.Example 9 To demonstrate how wetting and flow control agents may be employed and that other aromatic anhydrides than BTDA can be used in making the imide precursors of the invention, a sample was prepared as follows pyromellitic dianhydride 218.12 g, 1.0 mole ,N,N dimethylacetamide 500 g , and caprolactam 304 g, 2.7 mole were mixed in a two litre flask and 0 heated to a selected temperature of between 30 and 1200C for 60 minutes, then cooled to 500C. 4,4 Diaminodiphenylmethane 198.2 g, 1.0 mole was then added and the mixture stirred for 10 minutes at 500C.A mixture 800 g consisting of equal parts by weight of acetone, methylisobutyl ketone, ethyl alcohol, andN,N dimethylacetamide was added to the resulting viscous liquid and the mixture stirred at 300C for 1 hour.General Electric SR 82 flow control agent 1.5 g was added to the mixture and stirring continued for an additional 30 minutes to complete the process. The final coating resin was found to produce 0 a useful coating when cured at 200 C for 1 hour. Example 10 To demonstrate the use of an adhesion promoter, an imide precursor was first prepared by the following method caprolactam 45.2 g, 0.4 mole , N,N dimethyl acetamide 200 g and BTDA 161 g, 0.5 mole were mixed 0 in a two litre flask, heated to a temperature of 90 C for 60 minutes, then cooled to 500C, 4,4 Diaminodiphenyl sulfone 37.2 g, 0.15 mole , 10.8 g 0.005 mole of the adhesion promoter, and BTDA 30.6 g, 0.095 mole were then added and the mixture stirred for 1 hour at 500C. The resulting composition was a dark viscous liquid which remained stable for several months and was useful as a coating.Example 11 The method of Example 1 was repeated using 6 aminocaproic acid 34.7 g, 0.265 mole in place of caprolactam. The resulting resins were found to be very satisfactory as adhesive compositions. Example 12 The method of Example 1 was repeated using 2 pyrrolidone 0.265 mole and 2 piperidone in place of caprolactam. The coatings in each case were excellent and had excellent storage stability.Example 13 To demonstrate that aliphatic diamines may be used to prepare the imide precursor compositions of the invention, the following composition was prepared by the method of Example 9 using 3,3 ,4,4 benzophenonetetracarboxylic acid dianhydride 322.2 g, 1.0 mole , 1,6 diaminohexane 116.2 g, 1.0 mole , and N methylpyrrolindone. The resulting resin was coated on to an 0 aluminium panel and cured at 190 C to produce an homogenous coating of good flexibility.