# Benz a anthraquinone compounds, a microbial process for their preparation and their use as medicaments

## Claims
Patentansprüche für folgende Vertragsstaaten BE, CH, DE, FR, GB, IT, LI, LU, NL, SE

## Description
Conventional benz a anthraquinone compounds obtained from microbial culture solutions include Tetrangomycin Kuntsmann, M.P. et al J. Org. Chem., Many of the antibiotics listed above have been reported to have antitumor activities, but their activity levels are too low to encourage the carrying out of extensive research work with a view to developing them as cancer control agents. Anthracycline antibiotics typified by Adriamycin form a family of cancer control agents used as key drugs in combined curing regimens of human cancers. It has however been pointed out recently that the advent of multi drug resistant cells that exhibit resistance against a broad range of cancer control agents including Anthracycline lowers the therapeutical effects of anthracycline antibiotics and will eventually lead to the recurrence of the disease. Benz a antrachinone antitumor antibiotics such as p 1894 B or vineomycin A₁ and B₂ are also described in Chem. Pharm. Bull. 1984, 32 11 , 4350 9 and J.Antibiot. 1982, 35 5 , 602 8. The present inventors searched for benz a anthraquinone compounds that are effective against multi drug resistant cells by screening compounds that have a skeletal structure very close to that of anthracycline antibiotics and which may exhibit high anti tumor activities The benz a anthraquinone compounds substances MH190 of the present invention are represented by the following formula I wherein R¹ and R² each represents one of the side chains listed in the following table The present invention provides novel compounds falling within the category of benz a anthraquinone compounds, and it is quite surprising that these compound are effective against multi drug resistant tumor cells. The benz a anthraquinone compounds of the present invention have the chemical structure represented by formula I shown above. In formula I , R¹ and R² each represents one of the side chains i to vi listed in Table 1. Specific examples of the combination of these side chains are shown in Table 2 together with the symbols for the compounds having the respective combinations. The compounds of the present invention are to be collectively named Saquayamycin. The symbols for the specific compounds are keyed to their names as shown below. The chemical structure of the compounds of the present invention was determined as follows When these compounds were heated in 0.1 0.5N HCℓ for periods of 15 30 minutes, each of them produced a yellow substance that showed Rf 0.1 on silica gel TLC chloroformmethanol 10 1 . This substance was found to be Aquayamycin by comparison with an authentic sample of Aquayamycin Sezaki, M. et al Tetrahedron, Table 3 compares the ¹³C NMR spectrum of Vineomycin Al, one of the Aquayamycin derivatives Imamura, N. et al J. Antibiotics, MH190 Y1 1 provides M at m z 596 in FD MS, gives a ¹H NMR spectrum having a coupling between 3 proton and 3 OH see Table 4 , and provides a ¹³C NMR spectrum having a glycosidation shift at 4 C see Table 3 . On the basis of these data, MH190 Y1 1 has been found to be a compound having acurose bonded to the Aquayamycin skeleton at 4 position see Fig. 1 . MH190 Y2 1 can also be obtained when MH190 Y1 1 is left on a silica gel, and it provides M at m z 596 in FD MS, and gives ¹N NMR and ¹³C NMR spectra which were respectively analyzed to be as shown in Tables 4 and 3. On the basis of these data, MH190 Y2 1 has been found to be a compound having cinerulose B bonded at 2 and 1 positions 2 and 1 in Fig. 1 respectively to 3 and 4 positions on the Aquayamycin skeleton. MH190 Y3 1 forms as a result of catalytic reduction of MH190 Y1 1 catalyzed by Pd BaSO₄ and provides a ¹H NMR spectrum analyzed as shown in Table 4. On the basis of these data, MH19O Y3 1 has been found to be a compound having cinerulose A bonded to the Aquayamycin skeleton at 4 position see Fig. 1 . When MH190 Y1 was treated with a mixture of 0.05N HCℓ and methanol at room temperature for 5 minutes, a spot that could be stained with H₂SO₄ formed on silica gel TLC a 2 1 mixture of benzene and ethyl acetate as a developing solvent. This spot agreed, in terms of Rf values on silica gel TLC, specific rotation α 20 D 20 , as well as EI MS and ¹H NMR spectra, with the methyl disaccharide composed of rhodinose and acurose that was obtained by a similar treatment of Ditrisarbidin C Uchida, T. et al J. Antibiotics, MH190 Y2 can also be obtained when MH190 Y1 is left on silica gel, and it produces methyl disaccharide as in the case of MH190 Y1 by similar treatment with a mixture of 0.05N HCℓ and methanol, and provides ¹H NMR and ¹³C NMR spectra as respectively shown in Tables 4 and 3. On the basis of these data, MH190 Y2 has been found to be a compound having rhodinose and acurose bonded to MH190 Y2 1 at 3 position. When MH190 Y3 and Y4 were treated with a mixture of 0.05N HCℓ and methanol at room temperature for 5 minutes, both produced a spot on silica gel TLC at Rf 0.41 solvent system benzene ethyl acetate 2 1 that could be stained with H₂SO₄. This spot was also produced by catalytic reduction of methyl disaccharide composed of rhodinose and acurose, and analyses by ¹H NMR and ¹³C NMR spectra revealed that the spot was methyl disaccharide composed of rhodinose and cinerulose A. On the basis of these data, MH190 Y3 and Y4 have been determined to have structures wherein a disaccharide composed of rhodinose and cinerulose A are bonded at 3 position to MH190 Y3 1 and MH190 Y2 1. These structures are also supported by the ¹H NMR and ¹³C NMR spectra of MH190 Y3 and Y4 respectively shown in Tables 4 and 3. Several of the physicochemical properties of the compounds within the scope of substance MH190 in accordance with the present invention are shown in Table 5. The benz a anthraquinone compounds of the present invention have so far been obtained solely by cultivation of microorganisms. They may however be produced by chemical synthetic, microbial or enzymatic modification of analogous compounds, or by fully chemical synthetic procedures. In producing the benz a anthraquinone compounds of the present invention by cultivation of a microorganism, one that belongs to the genus It is also possible to enhance the substance MH190 producing ability of the strain MH190 16F3 and other MH190 producing microorganisms by treating them with radiation or nitrosoguanidine, or by cell fusion or DNA recombinant technology, or by subjecting them to other suitable treatments. The strain MH190 16F3 that has been identified as a microorganism of the genus The above observations can be summarized as follows The cells of this microorganism contain an LL form of 2,6 diaminopimelic acid. This fact, taken together with the above described properties, clearly shows that the strain MH190 16F3 belongs to the genus Utilizing these mycological properties as a guide, Substances analogous to the substance produced by the strain MH190 16F3 are produced by the following two microorganisms Vineomycin producing In order to confirm these assumptions, the present inventors obtained the ISP strain of the seemingly most homologous As the above table shows, the properties of strain MH190 16F3 are in complete agreement with those of With all the observations taken together, strain MH190 16F3 is believed to be most homologous to The benz a anthraquinone compounds, or substances MH190, can be produced by aerobically cultivating a MH190 producing microorganism of the genus The medium may contain any of the nutrient sources that can be utilized by the MH190 producing microorganism. Usable carbon sources include glycerin, glucose, sucrose, maltose, dextrin, starch and fats and oils. Usable nitrogen sources include organics such as soybean meal, cottonseed oil cake, meat extract, peptone, dried yeast, yeast extract and corn steep liquor, and inorganics such as ammonium salts and nitrates, for example, ammonium sulfate, sodium nitrate and ammonium chloride. If necessary, inorganic salts such as sodium chloride, potassium chloride, phosphates and heavy metal salts may be added to the medium. In order to prevent foaming during fermentation, suitable anti foaming agents such as silicone and soybean oil may be added in suitable amounts as effected in the usual practice. Aerobic liquid submerged culture in the most appropriate method as is commonly employed in the production of antibiotics. A suitable temperature for cultivation ranges from 20 to 35 C, with the 25 30 C range being preferred. The amount of substance MH190 produced by this method, whether it is a shake culture or culture under aeration and agitation, reaches a peak in 2 4 days. The above procedures yield a culture in which the substance MH190 has accumulated. Part of the substance MH190 is present in the cells of the cultured microorganism but most of the substance is present in the supernatant of the culture. Any suitable method may be used to recover the substance MH190 from the culture. One method depends on the principles of extraction. More specifically, substance MH190 in the culture supernatant may be extracted with water immiscible solvents for MH190 see above , such as ethyl acetate, butyl acetate, and chloroform. If the substance MH190 is present in the cells of the cultured microorganism, the cells are collected by filtration, centrifugation or other suitable techniques and the substance MH190 may be recovered by treatment with ethyl acetate, chloroform, methanol, ethanol, butanol, acetone or methyl ethyl ketone. The culture may be immediately subjected to the above procedures of extraction without isolating the cells. The cells may be disrupted prior to extraction. The counter current distribution method may be included within the category of extraction techniques. Another method that can be used to recover the substance MH190 from the culture depends on the principles of adsorption, wherein an already liquid material containing the substance MH190, such as a culture filtrate or an extract that has been obtained by the first method, is subjected to column chromatography or liquid chromatography using a suitable adsorbent, say, activated carbon, alumina, silica gel or Dia Ion HP20 Mitsubishi Chemical Industries Limited , and the adsorbed substance MH190 is eluted with a suitable solvent. The eluate is subsequently concentrated to dryness under vacuum to obtain a crude product of the substance MH190. The crude product of substance MH190 may be purified by performing the required number of cycles of the extraction and adsorption processes described above, which may be combined as required, optionally followed by recrystallization. Suitable purification techniques that may be used in combination include column chromatographic processes using adsorbents and gel permeation media such as silica gel, Sephadex LH 20 and Dia Ion HP 20 Mitsubishi Chemical Industries Limited , liquid chromatography using suitable solvents, the counter current distribution method and thin layer chromatography. A specific purification process may proceed as follows the crude powder of substance MH190 is dissolved in a small amount of chloroform the solution is loaded onto a silica gel column and fractions are eluted with a suitable solvent those fractions containing the desired substance are combined and concentrated under vacuum the concentrate is subjected to thin layer chromatography and the desired components are recovered to obtain a substantially homogenous product. This product may be further purified by high performance liquid chromatography or crystallization from a suitable solvent. The benz a anthraquinone compounds or substance MH190, of the present invention have cancer control activities and are therefore useful as medicaments. Some of the biological activities of this substance are described below. The crude powder 125 mg obtained in Example 1 3 was dissolved in a small amount of chloroform and the solution was spread on 15 thin layers of silica gel Kieselgel 60 F₂₅₄ of Merck, 0.25 mm x 20 cm x 20 cm , which were eluted with a 100 2 mixture of chloroform and methanol. The separate MH190 Y1 and Y2 fractions were collected, eluted from the silica gel plates with a 20 1 mixture of chloroform and methanol, and evaporated to dryness. The resulting powders were dissolved in a 1 10 mixture of chloroform and methanol and passed through a column of Sephadex LH 20 1.5 x 30 cm equilibrated with the same composition of chloroform methanol mixture. The effluents were evaporated to dryness to obtain 32 mg of a yellow orange powder of MH190 Y1 and 45 mg of a yellow orange powder of MH190 Y2. A portion of MH190 Y1 15 mg was dissolved in 5 mℓ of a mixture of 0.4 aqueous phosphoric acid and acetonitrile, and after leaving it to stand overnight at room temperature, the solution was subjected to extraction with chloroform. The chloroform layer was evaporated to dryness and a homogenous product of MH190 Y1 1 18.2 mg was obtained by subjecting the concentrate to reverse phase HPLC under the following conditions Under these conditions, MH190 Y1 1 was eluted out in 12 minutes. A portion 15 mg of MH190 Y2 was likewise dissolved in 5 mℓ of a mixture of 0.4 aqueous phosphoric acid and acetonitrile 40 60 and the solution was left to stand overnight at room temperature. After extraction with chloroform and evaporation to dryness, the solid was subjected to HPLC under the same conditions as used in the purification of MH190 Y1 1. By these procedures, 6.6 mg of MH190 Y2 1 was obtained. The product was eluted in 15 minutes. The crude powder 25 mg of the substance MH190 obtained in Example 1 4 was dissolved in a small amount of chloroform and the solution was spread on 4 thin layers of silica gel Kieselgel 60 F₂₅₄ of Merck, 0.25 mm x 20 cm x 20 cm , which were developed with a mixture of chloroform, ethyl acetate and acetic acid 100 100 2 and the separating MH190 Y3 and Y4 fractions were collected individually. Each of these silica gels were eluted with a mixture of chloroform and methanol 20 1 and washed three times with an equal amount of water. The resulting yellow solutions were evaporated to dryness under vacuum to obtain 5.9 mg of a yellow orange powder of MH190 Y3 and 6.6 mg of a yellow orange powder of MH190 Y4. A portion 5 mg of MH190 Y3 was dissolved in a mixture of 0.4 aqueous phosphoric acid and acetonitrile 40 60 and the solution was left to stand overnight at room temperature. After extraction with chloroform and evaporation to dryness, the solid was isolated and purified by HPLC under the same conditions as shown in Example 2. A homogeneous product of MH190 Y3 1 was obtained in an amount of 2.2 mg. It was eluted in 12 minutes.