# A peptide compound and antiserum produced by using this compound.

## Abstract
Peptide compounds containing amino acid residues occuring naturally in amyloid A protein and or serum amyloid A protein and specially intended for the production of specific antisera for amyloid A protein and or serum amyloid A protein. It is the characteristic feature of the peptide compounds that the sum of the hydrophilicity values of the respective amino acid residues is greater than, or equal to, 0. Specific antisera for amyloid A protein and or serum amyloid A protein and produced using a peptide compound of the type specified above.

## Claims
1. A peptide compound containing amino acid residues which occur naturally in amyloid A protein and or serum amyloid A protein, characterized in that the sum of the hydrophilicity values of the respective amino acid residues is greater than zero.

## Description
Peptide compound and antisera, produced by the use of such compound, will be described. The invention relates in particular to peptide compounds for the production of antisera which are specific for amyloid A protein and or serum amyloid A protein hereinafter called AA and SAA respectively and which consequently constitute valuable means for the detection and the determination of the concentration of the said proteins. In many chronic illnesses, such as rheumatoid arthritis, tuberculosis, hepatitis and infectious and tumerous affections there is a strong increase in the blood content of SAA. Through the splitting off of the 28 last amino acid residues from SAA in such affections AA is formed in organs of these patients to such an extent that they cease to function. The organs which are hit earliest are the kidneys and the heart. This illness manifestation is called amyloidosis and, if not treated, is lethal. To make it possible to detect amyloidosis at an early stage and thus allow treatment of this illness manifestation through increased action against the basic affection, a method is required for the detection of AA in tissue specimens and or the determinaton of the SAA content in blood samples. A known method which is based on the production of antisera which are specific for AA and or SAA is described in the British Medical Journal, vol. 288, no. 4 February 1984. As far as we know this known method has not become generally accessible since it has proved particularly difficult to produce antisera specific for AA and or SAA. Moreover, the method has been subject of certain criticism see British Medical, vol. 28, no. 17 March 1984, pp. 859 60. It is an object of the invention, therfore, to overcome the difficulty of the known technique and thereby lay the foundation of a well functioning method of the type described above. The object is achieved in accordance with the invention with the help of the peptide compounds and antisera which are defined in the following claims and which will be described in greater detail hereunder. A peptide compound of the type which is specified in the preamble to claim 1 is thus produced in accordance with the invention. The characteristic feature of the peptide compound is that the sum of the hydrophilicity values of the respective amino acid residues in the peptide compound is greater than 0. The expression hydrophilicity value is accepted in the field and is used in accordance with the invention exactly in the manner as described in Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA, vol. 78, no. 6, pp. 3824 3828, June 1981. In this literature reference is also found to a table of such values for particular amino acid residues. The number of amino acid residues in the peptide compound in accordance with the invention may vary, but for reasons which are explained more fully, for example, in Nature, vol. 299, 14th October 1982, p. 596 for synthetic peptide compounds in general, this number in accordance with the invention preferably should be greater than, or equal to, 6. Moreover, the amino acid residues in the peptide compound in accordance with the invention preferably should form a sequence occurring naturally in AA and or SAA. The peptide compound in accordance with the invention can be prepared synthetically by using in principle conventional methods in the field. Even though it does not in general involve any major difficulties to snthesize a peptide compound with a predetermined sequence of amino acids, it is none the less surprising that a synthetic peptide compound in accordance with the invention can be used for the production of a specific antiserum for AA and or SAA, bearing in mind that it is particularly difficult when the natural proteins are to serve as an antigen, on the one hand because it is difficult to isolate them wholly free from any contaminating substances, on the other hand because they are difficultly soluble or insoluble in ordinary buffers. Moreover, the peptide conceivable for immunization can be chosen in many different manners, since no completely reliable method exists for choosing the right peptide. A peptide compound prepared by synthesis which has been found to function well in accordance with the invention for precisely the preparation of specific antisera for AA and or SAA is a nanopeptide with the following amino acid sequence Ser Asp Ala Arg Glu Asn Ile Gln Arg where, in known manner, the codes used have the following meanings In accordance with the invention an antiserum is produced also for the detection of AA in a tissue specimen. The antiserum is characterized in that it is produced by using a peptide compound of the type described above, for example a nanopeptide of the following amino acid sequence Ser Asp Ala Arg Glu Asn Ile Gln Arg Furthermore, an antiserum for the determination of the concentration of SAA in blood is produced in accordance with the invention which is characterized in that it is produced by using a peptide compound of the type described below, for example a nanopeptide with the following amino acid sequence Ser Asp Ala Arg Glu Asn Ile Gln Arg The nanopeptide defined above, coupled to a high molecular carrier was injected in accordance with conventional technique into five rabbits, two times at three weeks interval. All the rabbits produced antisera which reacted specifically with AA in body tissues as well as with SAA in blood in immunohistochemical techniques and in immunoblood techniques of known type. The production of antiserum continued without loss of titre during six weeks without renewed injections of nanopeptide carrier complex and therefore can be regarded as stable. Peptide compounds in accordance with the invention are specially useful for the production of specific antisera for AA and or SAA. Antisera prepared by using peptide compounds in accordance with the invention are therefore specially useful for the detection of AA in tissue specimens and or determination of SAA concentration in blood.