# Emergency lighting system.

## Abstract
An emergency lighting supervisory system monitors utility power so as to automatically connect emergency lights to a battery source when utility power fails. The system continuously monitors selected parameters and, automatically, periodically tests the system under simulated full load emergency conditions and annunciates the results of these tests. Such periodic tests also enhance the battery capacity. The system also provides a closed loop three mode battery charging control circuit. It can optionally communicate its status as well as receive commands from an external computer or other source by means of a data communication interface.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. An emergency lighting supervisory system for entering emergency mode operation that causes at least one emergency lamp to be energisea from emergency battery power upon sensing an emergency condition such as utility power failure comprising A. a battery 46 for providing emergency power B. a battery charger 24 for maintaining the battery in a fully charged state C. at least one lamp 66 to be illuminated by the battery when emergency power is provided Do means 32, 26 , interconnected to the utility power, the battery and the lamp, for sensing the utility power voltage and for initiating the transfer from utility power to battery emergency power when utility power is not present or when self testing of the emergency lighting system is performed and E. means 32, 110 for performing periodic self testing of emergency lighting supervisory system parameters, said means including timer generating means 92 including means for generating outputs which occur on a multi day basis 2. self test control means 110 responsive to said timing outputs for initiating a self test for a period of time, said means including means for activating the transfer means 26 so as to place the system in a simulated emergency operating mode and 3. means for monitoring the status of system parameters when the self test condition is activated. 2. An emergency lighting system according to claim 1, wherein the transfer means 26 is also operative 68, 69 when the utility power falls below a threshold value. 3. An emergency lighting supervisory system according to claim 1 or claim 2, wherein the means for monitoring the status of system parameters includes means 136, 134 for determining current flow through the lamp so as to ascertain if the lamp is operating properly. 4. An emergency lighting supervisory system according to claim 1, 2 or 3, wherein the means for monitoring the status of system parameters includes means 152, 134 for determining if a battery induced voltage is applied to the lamp so as to determine if transfer of battery power has occurred. 5. An emergency lighting supervisory system according to any preceding claim, wherein the means for monitoring the status of system parameters includes means 138, 140 for determining if the battery voltage is below a predetermined level indicative of a faulty battery condition. 6. An emergency lighting supervisory system according to any preceding claim, further comprising communication means 208, 209, 210 for transfer of the status from the self test procedure to an interconnected device 212 as well as to provide for initiation of a self test procedure upon receipt of a request from an interconnected device. 7. An emergency lighting supervisory system according to claim 6, wherein the communication means 208 includes means for decoding a received message indicative of the length of time that the self test procedure is to occur, and wherein the self test control means is responsive to such a decoded message so as to set the period of time of the self test to the decoded message value. 8. An emergency lighting supervisory system according to claim 6, wherein the communication means comprises input output means 162 for receipt and transfer of information between the emergency lighting supervisory system and an external communicating device 208 , as well as code decode circuitry for translating received information into appropriate inputs to the system as well as sensed system parameters coding for transfer to the external communicating device. 9. An emergency lighting supervisory system as defined in claim 8, wherein the communicating means incorporates a read ,rite line 218 for controlling receipt and transmission of information to the external communicating device as well as five data lines representative of the on or off state of information to be received or transmitted by the communicating means. 10. An emergency lighting supervisory system according to any preceding claim, wherein the battery charger comprises means 44 for providing a constant current charging cut1, 43 of the battery upon system installation or after the battery has provided emergency power, thereafter providing an equalisation voltage t2, 45 to the battery having a value greater than the nominal charging voltage presented to the battery, wherein this equalisation voltage is provided for a set period of time, and thereafter providing a float voltage t2, 47 having a value equal to the nominal charging voltage to the battery, such charging continuing until a transfer to emergency battery power is needed. 11. An emergency lighting supervisory system according to claim 10, further comprising means Figures 4A l for adjusting the float and equalisation charging voltages inversely proportioned to the ambient temperature of the system so as to minimise the probability of overcharging or undercharging the battery. 12. An emergency lighting supervisory system according to claim 10 or claim 11, further comprising a unit ready indicator 149, 79 which generates an output indicative of proper operation of the unit when the battery charger is in a float voltage mode and no sensed parameter is outside of its acceptable value. 13. An emergency lighting supervisory system according to claim 10, 11 or 12, further comprising a status indicator 72 for annunciating the battery charging status, including whether the charger is in the constant current, equalisation, or float voltage modes, and also whether any sensed system parameter has failed during a self test procedure. 14. An emergency lighting supervisory system according to claim 12, further comprising a failure indicator 134, 142, 144 which annunciates a bad lamp 134 , bad printed circuit board 132 , or bad battery condition 140 , sensed during the self test procedure and wherein said indicator includes means for signalling the status indicator of this condition. 15. An emergency lighting supervisory system according to any preceding claim, wherein the timer generating means 92 of the periodic self testing means generates an output 99,100 on an approximately one month and sixmonth basis, wherein the one month output 99 causes the self test control means 110 to initiate a self test for a period of approximately five minutes and wherein the six month output 100 causes the self test control means 110, 104 to initiate a self test for a period of 30, 60, 90 or 120 minutes. 16. An emergency lighting supervisory system according to claim 15, further comprising circuit connectable resistors 135, 137 for selecting a 30 , 60 , 90 or 120 minute self test duration. 17. An emergency lighting supervisory system according to any preceding claim, wherein the means for performing periodic self testing of emergency lighting supervisory system parameters further includes an externally activated switch 164 for initiating the self test control means for a predetermined length of time. 18. An emergency lighting supervisory system according to claim 17, wherein the predetermined length of time for the externally activated self test is approximately five minutes. 19. An emergency lighting supervisory system according to any preceding claim, wherein the means for monitoring system parameters when the self test condition is activated includes means 134 for maintaining the status of the tested parameters even if there is a subsequent loss of utility power. 20. An emergency lighting supervisory system according to claim 19, further comprising battery reset means for resetting said maintaining means when a system is initially installed or a new battery is installed. 21. An emergency lighting supervisory system as defined in claim 20, wherein the maintaining means includes electronic latches 134 . 22. An emergency lighting supervisory system according to any preceding claim, further including means 72, 177 for disconnecting the battery from the lamp normally illuminated by the battery during loss of utility power if the battery voltage falls below a predetermined level, whereby over discharge of the battery is prevented. 23. An emergency lighting supervisory system according to any preceding claim, further comprising means 72, 177, 175 for inhibiting the operation of the battery charger if the sensed battery voltage is above or below predetermined values. 24. An emergency lighting supervisory system according to claim 23, further comprising means 74 for annunciating the condition of the battery voltage being above or below the predetermined values of the inhibiting means. 25. An emergency lighting supervisory system according to claim 24, further comprising initial battery reset means 180 for sensing the resetting of the battery such as occurs when an emergency lighting system is installed, wherein the battery reset means prevented activation of the battery inhibitor for a set predetermined length of time or until equalisation charging of the battery occurs if such equalisation charging occurs before expiration of said set predetermined length of time. 26. An emergency lighting supervisory system according to claim 23, 24 or 25, further comprising means for adjusting the predetermined values against which the sensed battery voltage is compared, wherein said adjusting is inversely proportional to the ambient temperature of the system. 27. An emergency lighting supervisory system according to any preceding claim, further including means 70, 76, 166, 168 for sensing the level of electrolyte in the battery and for annunciating a low electrolyte level if the sensed level is below a predetermined amount. 28. An emergency lighting supervisory system according to claim 27, further comprising means 112, 111 for inhibiting the battery charger if a low electrolyte level is sensed. 29. An emergency lighting supervisory system according to any preceding claim, further including an alarm driver 152 which is activated whenever a sensed parameter is outside of a normal operating value. 30. An emergency lighting supervisory system according to claim 29, further including a manually operable switch 167 for disabling the alarm driver if desired. 31. An emergency lighting supervisory system according to any preceding claim, wherein a supervisory circuit integrated circuit incorporates the means for performing periodic self testing of the emergency lighting supervisory system parameters as well as at least a portion of the means for monitoring system parameters when the selftest condition is activated.

## Description
Title Emergency Lighting System DESCRIPTION The present invention relates to emergency lighting systems, including emergency lighted exit signs. In particular, the system is directed to such emergency lighting systems which further provide self diagnostic testing and display of their operational state. Although emergency lighting systems are well thrown in the art, including those manufactured by the present assignee, few systems provide self diagnositc testing of the emergency lighting system other than with the use of a manually initiated testing procedure. Such procedures typically use a test button which momentarily test some function or functions of the system, such as lamp condition, battery charge conditon, etc. It has been found that manually tested emergency lighting systems often are not periodically tested and, therefore, a defective system may be present whose condition is unknown until an actual emergency condition arises, at which time it fails to operate.Such failure, of course. can be catastrophic and it is the intent of the present invention to provide a simple, yet effective self diagnostic emergency lighting supervisory system for periodically testing all major components and sub sections of the system to insure their proper operation and to notify responsible personnel of a faulty condition and the nature of that condition so that proper and rapid replacement or repair is achieved. The periodic testing is performed under full lamp load for set periods of time. Such full load exercising of the battery further insures optimal battery capacity. Although some prior art devices employ some form of self diagonostic procedure, they do not provide the comprehensive supervisory testing capabilities of the present invention, nor the ability to communicate such information to a remote location as is disclosed and claimed herein. More particularly, an Electronic Scanning Process emergency directional sign is manufactured by the KurtVersen Company, 10 Charles Street, P.O. Box 6778 Westuood, New Jersey 07675, USA, which includes some periodic testing and self diagnostic capabilities.According to literature distributed by the Kurt VersenCo., this system on a daily basis scans the components of the system including batteries, lamps and charger to determine their operational state and, if a failure occurs in any of these elements, an external AC powered light is energised and flashes so as to inform maintenance personnel of the problem. In addition to this AC powered lamp, a green light emitting diode LED on the charger circuitry is lit when the charger is working and is extinguished if the charger is in need of service. The daily testing of the components of the system appears to be for a relatively brief period of time which is sufficiently long to determine whether the charger, batteries and lamps are operational. The present invention provides for a monthly fiveminute test of the various components in a self test regime as well as a user programmable 30 , 60 , 90 or 120 minute self test once every six months. These longer time duration testing procedures not only determine if the battery has sufficient power to illuminate the lamps for a period of time, but also determine whether the batteries have sufficient storage capacity to maintain illumination for periods of time which are required by relevant national and state codes. These five minute and longer discharges of the battery also provide the salutory effect of maintaining charge capacity due to the inherent characteristics of the batteries used in emergency lighting equipment which require periodic discharge in order to maintain maximum charge capacity.In addition, the present invention not only determines the state of the various system parameters, but also annunciates this information visually. It can also communicate this inforamtion to an external computer or data acquisition device which can monitor many emergency lighting systems installed throughout one or more buildings.Thus, an overall self diagnostic testing capability is provided which is not disclosed or suggested by the prior art including the above mentioned Kurt Versen ModelESP Series Electronic Emergency Directional Signs. Furthermore, the present invention includes other features which distinguish it from the prior art. Such features include an enhanced charging circuit with an adjustable float voltage which is temperature compensated and includes a three step battery charger with an automatic time period for providing a battery equalisation voltage. This type of battery charging enhances battery capability and reliability. The present invention also includes full time, on line monitoring of both high and low battery voltage conditions and actual lamp current monitoring during self test operation. The latter test procedure is unlike prior art systems including the above mentioned ESP system which only tests for open condition of a lamp but cannot monitor lamp failures for a loss of as little as 20 25 of the load current. The present invention can therefore determine the failure of a single lamp out of a multi lamp system. The present system also includes circuitry for maintaining the failure condition even if AC power is removed as well as specific annunciation of the particular problem. It further provides AC brown out sensing and transfer to emergency power when such a condition is sensed. Thus, the present system not only continuously senses critical system parameters, but also performs periodic self testing of all major system components. An emergency lighting supervisory system is disclosed which provides four main functions 1 monitors utility power and automatically transfers emergency power to lamps when the utility power fails or is reduced below a brown out level 2 performs self diagnostic testing of the system parameters, including periodic full load testing of the battery, emergency lamps and electronic control circuitry so as to determine their operating status, 3 employs a three mode battery charger through use of a closed loop control circuit which provides constant current, equalisation and float voltage charging of the emergency power battery and 4 includes a communication interface so as to receive commands from an external source for self testing the system and to transfer status information to that source upon request The emergency lighting supervisory circuit includes a power supply for providing the recruired voltages for operation of other sections of the circuitry1 a battery charger for providing the three mode battery charging profile, an emergency transfer circuit for energising emergency lamps upon sensing an AC power failure, an AC brown out condition or a self test condition a status monitoring circuit for continuously monitoring the charge status of the battery, the electrolyte level within the battery and the current state of the charger self test circuitry for periodically testing the emergency lighting system while under full load, and communication interfacing circuitry for receipt of commands from an external source and for reporting the status of the various sensed conditions of the system to the external source. Therefore, it is an advantage of embodiments of the present invention to provide an emergency lighting supervisory system which periodically operates the system under full load while testing the operating conditions of the system to determine its operational state and to annunciate the sensed conditions of the system, including the specific nature of any faulty condition. It is a further advantage to be able to provide an emergency lighting supervisory circuit of the above description, further including a communication interface so as to transfer status information concerning the system to an interconnected remote device as well as to receive commands from such an interconnected remote device for commencing full load testing of the system. Another advantage attainable is to provide an emergency lighting supervisory system of the above description which includes a three stage charging circuit that provides constant current charging during initial charging of a battery, maintaining a constant voltage at an equalisation voltage for a set period of time following constant current charging, wherein the equalisation voltage is at a value greater than the normal float voltage to the battery and, at other times, maintaining a constant float voltage to the battery. A further advantage attainable is to provide an emergency lighting supervisory system incorporating a battery charger with negative temperature voltage compensation so that the optimal float voltage is applied to the battery for any given ambient temperature. A still further advantage attainable is to provide an emergency lighting supervisory system which incorporates status monitoring which constantly determines the charge status of the battery, the electrolyte level within the battery as well as the state of the battery charger, and annunciates this information as well as reports such information via the communication interface when instructed to do so by a remote source. Another advantage attainable is to provide an emergency lighting system of the above description that incorporates a low voltage disconnect module that disconnects the battery from the emergency lamp s and other selected circuitry while maintaining energisation of the portions of the circuitry necessary to maintain annunciation of the sensed system parameters while preventing deep discharge of the battery. An additional advantage attainable is to provide an emergency lighting system of the above description which maintains emergency battery power for approximately fifteen minutes after utility power is restored and thereby allows sufficient time for high intensity discharge lamps to return to full brightness before the emergency lamp s are extinguished. Other objects of the present invention will, in part, be obvious and will, in part appear hereinafter. For a full understanding of the nature and objects of the present invention, reference should be made to the following detailed description taken in conjunction with the following drawings wherein Figure 1 is an overall block diagram of the emergency lighting supervisory circuit showing its interconnection to a source of utility AC power as well as its interconnection to an associated communication circuit. This figure also shows the indicator lights used to visually annunciate the various conditions monitored by the system as well as the lamp or lamps which are energised by the system both during emergency operation and during self testing procedures. Figure 1A is a perspective view of a typical emergency lighting unit employing an emergency lighting supervisory system according to the present invention. This figure also shows a typical display panel used with the system. Figure 1B is an enlarged view of the typical display panel shown in Figure IA. Figure 2 is a waveform of the voltage applied to a battery by the battery charging circuitry plotted versus time. This figure illustrates the three charging modes of the battery charger. Figure 3A illustrates waveforms associated with the communication circuitry for both the read write line and the parallel data lines as a function of time for both receipt and transmission of messages. Figure 3B is an enlarged view of the voltage waveforms for writing and reading data over the lines. Figures 4A 4F form an overall schematic block diagram of the supervisory integrated circuit shown inFigure 1. Figure 4G is a diagram showing how Figures 4A 4F are put together. Figures 5A 5AW form a schematic diagram of the integrated circuit modules used in the supervisory circuit shown in Figures 4A 4F. Figures 5AX and 5AY as put together in Figure 5AZ form a diagram showing how Figures 5A 5AW are put together. Figure 6 is a diagrammatic representation of a plurality of emergency lighting supervisory circuits interconnected by communication circuit modules to a remote host computer or data acquisition device. As best seen in Figure 1, an emergency lighting supervisory system 20 comprises a power supply module 22, a battery charger module 24, an emergency transfer module 26, output indicator modules 28, an alarm module 30 as well as an overall supervisory integrated circuit IC 32 which interconnects with these modules to perform the overall operation of the emergency lighting supervisory circuit. This supervisory system is typically mounted within an emergency lighting or exit sign fixture, such as the emergency lighting fixture,21 shown in Figure 1A. As shown in Figures 1A and 1B, the supervisory system has a front panel 23 which typically includes a test switch 164, indicator light domes 25, printed indicia 27 and symbols 29 identifying the switch and indicator light domes.Other configurations of the front panel can, of course, be used if desired. Referring again to Figure 1, the power supply module 22 comprises a centre tap transformer 34 and diodes 35 and 36 which full wave rectify the secondary output of the transformer. Also part of the power supply module is diode 38 and filter capacitor 40 which provide a full wave rectified and filtered output 39 called Vcc3 and a reduced voltage output 41 called Vcc2 via resitor 42.These two voltages are used by supervisory integrated circuit 32 for its necessary power as well as to provide power to the output indicator modules 28. The component values and types for the components shown in Figure 1 are presented in Table 1. The typical voltage values for the identified voltages and outputs are presented in Table 2. Table IA presents detailed information with respect to the characteristics of transformer 34. TABLE 1 Typical Values of Components Shown in Figure 1 for a Nominal 6VDC Battery Circuit at 7 Reference No. Description 58, 72, 76, 139 Ql, 2, 3, 4 MPS2222 transistor 44 SCR1 Selected C106 SCR 35, 36, 37, 38 D1, 2, 3, 4 IN4002 diode 40 Cl 1000 ufd, 25V capacitor 54 C2 4.7 ufd, 25V capacitor 50 R1 75K ohm, 1 4W resistor 51 R2 10K ohm potentiometer 52 R3 12K ohm, 1 4W resistor 42 R4 1.5K ohm, 1 4W resistor 49 R5 Shunt resistor load dependent 83, 147 R6, 8 390 ohm, 1 4W resitor 84, 145 R7, 9 470 ohm, 1 4W resistor 120 R10 43.2K ohm, 1 4W resistor 121, 123 RIl, 15 10K ohm, 1 4W resistor 68 R12 24K ohm, 1 4W resistor 69 R13 20K ohm potentiometer 45 R14 5.1K ohm, 1 4W resistor 60, 61 combination K1 Relay, n o contacts, 6VDC coil typical 34 T1 Transformer, 120 277VAC to 18VAC C.T. see Table 1A 66 DS1 Emergency lamps typical 6 volt 46 Battery 6V sealed lead acid type typical, also 4VDC and 12VDC depending on application 160 Alarm Solid state audible alarm. 6VDC 135, 137 Resistors 47K ohm each TABLE IA Typical Transformer CharacteristicsWinding Order 1 2 3Volts 120 157 18.4Amps .43Wire Size 37 40 27Turns 1607 2102 245Taps At CtrResistance 240 608 3.9 TotalHi Pot Test 1500V 1500V 1500VCore Insulation Nylon Bobbin Laminatian Size El 21 x 5 8 StackLamination Thickness 24GALamination Grade M27B Max. 100,000 INê Interleave lxl, 2x2 ,3x3, 4x4 ,or,5x5 No Loads Watts commat 120 VAC, 60hz 1.25W. maximum 277 VAC primary winding if system to be used with 277 VAC utility power TABLE 2 Typical Voltaqes for Figure 1Reference DescriptionVcc2, Vcc3 10VDCBP battery 7.05VCD at float, 7.50VDC at equaliseTransformer 34 TI secondary 9 0 9VAC nominal see Table 1A BRO input 204 1.25 VDC BS input 55 1.15VDC at float Referring again to Figure 1, battery charger module 24 uses a silicon controlled rectifier SCR 44 which is controlled by output 118 called SCRD from the supervisory IC 32. Resistor 45 provides the necessary gating voltage when the level of output SCRD is at an elevated potential.Thus, when the SCRD output is high,SCR 44 is turned on, which in turn provides charging current to battery 46 from the power supply output 48.The charger also includes monitoring circuitry comprising resistors 50 and 52 in combination with potentiometer 51 and capacitor 54. The wiper contact 55 of potentiometer 51 is connected to capacitor 54 and to the battery sense BS input 57 to the supervisory IC 32. As shown in Figure 2 and as will be explained more fully with respect to the operation of the supervisoryIC, battery charging1 as directly controlled by SCR 44, has a constant current mode 43, an equalisation voltage mode 45 and a floating voltage mode 47. Thus, during time period to through tl, the current supplied to battery 46 is controlled through gating of SCR 44 so as to limit the current to the battery at a predetermined amount, typically 300 800 milliamperes. This current is limited due to the internal impedance of transformer 34 see Table 1A . Once an equalisation voltage is obtained typically 7.50 volts for a 6 volt battery , the equalisation voltage is maintained for a time period tl to t2 of 4 hours after a loss of utility power and for a period of 12 hours after a selt test operation. The equalisation voltage helps insure long battery life by causing agitation of the battery electrolyte which, in turn, helps eliminate sulfucation of the battery plates. Following this constant voltage period, the SCR is gated so as to provide a constant voltage to the battery as its float voltage typically 7.05 volts for a 6 volt battery .This is the voltage that the battery is normally maintained at once a fully charged condition has been achieved. This time period t2 to t3 is maintained until a discharge of the battery occurs due to loss of utility power, a brown out condition, or due to a self test operation0 As shown more fully in Figures 4A 4F with respect to the band gap reference voltages V1, V2, V3, V4 and V53 the actual float voltage applied to the battery by the charger is inversely proportional to the ambinet temperature of the emergency lighting supervisory system. Therefore, as the ambient temperature increases, the charging float voltage decreases by 0.t per degree Celsius and vice versa.This change in float voltage closely matches the optimal charging voltage desired for sealed lead acid batteries and thereby minimises overcharging under high ambient temperatures and undercharging under low ambient temperatures. As shown in Figure 1, the emergency transfer module 26 provides for the transfer from utility power to battery back up power when utility power fails or when utility voltage falls below a predetermined brown out 2 level.If utility power fails, voltage Vcc3 decays by discharge of capacitor 40. This, in turn, causes the supervisoryIC 32 to activate turn on its transfer enable TE output 109 which, in turn1 energises transistor 58.Transistor 58 energises relay coil 60 having contacts 62 which are closed by the energised state of coil 60. With contacts 62 closed, battery current on line 64 passes through emergency light s 66 so as to illuminate it. If emergency light energisation is desired when a brown out condition occurs, resistor 68 in combination with potentiometer 69 are used to sense any reduction in voltage at Vcc3 and if this sensed voltage falls below a pre determined level such as 20 reduction in utility voltage , supervisory circuit 32 activates its transfer enable TE output 109 so as to energise emergency light s 66. The emergency lighting supervisory circuit also can continuously monitor several parameters of the system including the charge status of battery 46 through battery sense input 41 BS , the electrolyte level of the battery via input 70 LEL IN , and the current state of the overall system. The battery charge status is annunciated by the high low battery output 72 of supervisory circuit 32. Output 72, when high, activates transistor 73 causing current flow and thus illumination of light emitting diode LED 74. Supervisory circuit 32, as explained in detail below, causes the high low output 72 to be in a pulsed high state when the battery voltage is sensed to be above or below predetermined values typically 8.4 volts and 6.35 volts .If an improper connection exists between the battery and the remainder of the supervisory system, the battery power input 64 called BP is not at the battery potential and therefore the supervisory circuit does not generate a clock pulse. Lack of a clock pulse causes high low output 72 to be in a constant high state, thereby turning LED 74 on continuously. If the electrolyte level input 70 called LEL IN indicates a low electrolyte level, supervisory circuit 32 activates the electrolyte level output 76 called LEL OUT which, in turn, energises transistor 77 causing energisation of light emitting diode 78. Thus, LED 78 is normally off unless a low electrolyte level is sensed, in which case it is constantly illuminated. The electrolyte level output signal also is connected to OR gate 112 which, in turn, deactivates charger control module 111. This deactivation prevents battery charging when its electrolyte level is low. The failure indicator output is summarised in Table 3 below TABLE 3 Failure Indicator OutputHigh Impedance no significanceHigh bad battery highest priority One Second Intermittent High bad printed circuit board next highest priority Low bad lamp lowest priority The status indicator output 80 annunciates the overall condition of the battery charger in a manner as set forth in Table 4 below TABLE 4 Status Indicator OutputHigh Impedance no significanceHigh charger is in equalise modeLow charger is in float modeOne Second Intermittent Low charger is in constant current modeOne Second Intermittent High unit failure highest priority LED s 81 and 82 are associated with resistors 83 and 84 such that the conditions set forth in Table 3 cause the associated action of these LED s. Figures 4A 4F, forming Figure 4, are a detailed schematic block diagram of supervisory circuit 32 shown in Figure 1. Figure 5 comprising Figures 5A 5W, as combined together in Figures 5AX, SAY and 5AZ, form the overall schematic diagram of supervisory integrated circuit 32. Figure 5 presents details of the IC modules shown in Figures 4A 4F. Table 4S is a directory of the various components and modules in Figures 4A 4F. The supervisory circuit, in association with the interconnected modules referred to above, allow the emergency lighting supervisory system to perform.periodic self tests of the battery control circuitry and emergency light s so as to determine their operational status. TABLE 4ACircuit Module Circuit module FIGURE 4 FIGURE 5 or Component or Component Area PrimaryName Reference Number Figure Area No s Figure No s Brown out 201 4A 5A comparatorLamp circuit 115 4A 5A, 5G sense LIS comparatorLamp voltage 113 4 5G sense LVS comparatorBad battery 138 4C 5G comparator Circuit Module Circuit Module FIGURE 4 FIGURE 5 or Component or Component Area PrimaryName Reference Number Figure Area No s Figure No s Low electrolyte 168 4C 5R, 5X comparator LEL Low battery 180 4C 5G, 5M comparatorHigh battery 174 4C 5M comparatorEqualise voltage 182 4C SM comparatorFloat voltage 185 4C 5M, 5S comparatorAlarm inhibit 169, 157 4D 5S, 5T Low voltage 193 4A SS disconnect LVD enable comparatorPower failure 202 4A 5S comparatorClock comparator 87 4E 58, 5Y Band gap voltage 129, 205 4B 5Y, 5AE 206Bias circuitry 186 4A 5AE, 5AL 5ASLow voltage 192 4A 5AS disconnect LVD comparatorInitial battery 107 4E SAS reset comparatorTransfer enable 108 4A SC, 5D TE controlLow voltage 187 4A SC, SI disconnect LVD controlFailure latches 134 4A 5H, SI, 5J, 5N 50, 5P High low battery 175 4C 5N, 50, inhibit control 5PCharger control 111 4C 5N, 50, 5P, 5T, 5U, 5V Self test control 110 4C 5T, 5U, 5z, 5AA, SAF, 5AG Circuit Module Circuit Module FIGURE 4 FIGURE 5 or Component or Component Area PrimaryName Reference Number Figure Area No s Figure No s Timing generator 92 4E 5AF, 5AG 5AH, 5AI 5AM, 5AN 5AO, 5AP Clock divider 88 4E 5AT, 5AU 5AVSelf test duration 104 4D 5AB, 5AC 5AH, 5AICommunication input 162 4B 5D, 5E, output I O port SF, 5J and code decode 5K, SL, CODEC 5P, SQ, 5RHigh low indicator 178 4B 5Q, 5R Unit ready indicator 141 4D 5Q, 5R Low electrolyte level 172 4B SQ. 5R LEL indicatorFailure indicator 142 4D 5W, 5X Status indicator 150 4D 5W 5X SAC, 5AD Alarm driver 152 4D 5AC, 5AD SCRD driver 116 4F SAC 5AD 5AI, 5AJDay month counter 98 4F 5AJ, SA1 5AP, SAQ, 5AR As seen in Figure 4E, the supervisory IC uses a zero voltage cross input 86 see also Figure 1 in combination with comparator 87 so as to generate a 120 hertz pulsed signal on clock output 85. The comparator uses an input 103 having a voltage of one half the battery power BP voltage received on line 64 see Figure 1 . The signal on clock output 85 is presented to clock divider 88 and logic elements 89, 90 and 91 which, in turn, generate a timing signal on output 105 to timing generator 92, This generator produces outputs of 2 seconds, 4 seconds, 5 minutes, 15 minutes, 30 minutes, 60 minutes, 90 minutes, 120 minutes, 4 hours and 12 hoursAs seen in Figure 4E and 4F, the 4 hour output is connected to logic elements 93, 94 and 95 which, in turn, produce an output 96 to a day month counter 98 which, in turn, produces an output at approximately one month and six month intervals on lines 99 and 100, respectively. The day month counter 98 can be reset by an initial battery reset signal 102 which is activated when comparator 107 first senses battery voltage via BS line 41. As shown in Figure 4C, the one month and six month outputs from counter 98 are transferred to self test control module 110 along with the minute and 2 second outputs from the timing generator 92. A self test duration device 104 Figure 4D receives the 30 minute, 60 minute, 90 minute and 120 minute outputs from timing generator 92, any of which can be selected by grounding or opening external resistors 135 and 137 as shown inFigure 43. Table 5 describes the specific selection of the timing intervals for all self test initiations. TABLE 5 Self Test Activation Internal TimerThe self test may be activated either automatically by an internal timer or by command via the remote communication circuit signal on line 133 see Figures 4A and 4B The internal timer initiates the following tests Time Interval Test Period Conditions 1 Every 28 days 5 minutes charger must be in float condition to initiate 2 Every 6 months selectable by charger must external control be in float at S1, S2 lines condition no connection 1 47K resistor 135 and or 137 to GRD 0 S1 S2 30 minutes 1 1 60 minutes 0 1 90 minutes 1 0 120 minutes 0 0 3 The communication circuit initiates the following tests SO S1 S2 S3 S4 X X x 0 1 30 minute self test X X X 1 1 5 minute self test Note X don t care 0 or 1 Longer self test periods can be accomplished remotely by immediately repeating the desired communication self test command. The charger does not have to be in the float mode for self test to be initiated. 4 A five minute self test is performed upon closure of switch 164 as seen in Figure 1. As shown in Figure 4C, the one month and six month signals from counter 98 are received on lines 99 and 100, respectively. Module 110 upon receipt of a one month or a six month signal, initiates a self test procedure by activating its ST output 106 which, in turn, activates the transfer enable control flipflop 108 Figure 4A . As shown in Figure 1 the activation of the transfer enable TE output 109 causes closing of contacts 62 called K1 by energising relay coil 60 which, in turn, passes battery voltage to emergency lights 66. In order to properly test the circuitry, it is necessary that the charger control module 111 effectively disconnects the power supply voltage during such testing.This result is achieved by receipt of the TE output signal 109 through OR gate 112 which, in turn, turns off the charger control SCR output 114. With output 114 off, SCRD driver module 116 is deactivated, causing the SG2D output 118 to he in the off i.e. low state, thereby effectively disconnecting battery 46 from the rectified voltage at output 48 see Figures 1 and 4F . As best seen in Figure 1, when lamp s 66 is energised, current passes through resistors 120 and 121 comprising a voltage divider with the value of this voltage at node 122 being sensed by the supervisory 1C 32 at its lams voltage sense input 122 LVS . Similarly, the current passing through resistor 124 to ground generates a voltage at node 125 which is sensed by the lamp current sensor 125 LIS of supervisory circuit 32. The LIS and LVS input voltages are respectively compared to a 30 millivolt reference 127 and a V5 output 123 from a band gap reference module 129. Comparators 113 and 115 are respectively used to determine if the proper voltages are present on lines 122 and 125. If the proper voltage is not sensed at node 122, a bad printed circuit board output 132 is set by closure of its corresponding failure latch in failure latch module 134 see Figure 4A .Such a failure mode is indicative of a faulty connection between relay contacts 62 and lamp s 66. Similarly, if the voltage sensed at the lamp current sense node 125 is not sufficiently high in comparison to the 30 millivolt signal 127, then the bad lamp output 136 is set by closure of the appropriate latch in failure latches 134. In addition to sensing lamp current and voltage to the lamp s , the self test procedure also senses battery voltage at the BS terminal 41 which is connected to the wiper of potentiometer 51 see Figure 1 . The BS voltage is compared to voltage reference 128 V5 from the band gap reference module 129 see Figures 43 and 4C . Comparator 138 changes state if the BS voltage is below the referenced voltage. This occurrence causes bad battery output 140 of failure latches 134 to be activated Figure 4A . As seen in Figures 43 and 4D, the bad printed circuit board output 132, the bad lamp output 136 and the bad battery output 140 all connect to a failure indicator module 142 which, depending upon the particular failed output, causes the indicator output 157 to have a state set forth in Table 3 above. Thus, if bad battery output 140 is high indicating a bad battery condition the failure indicator output 157 is also high which, as shown in Figure 1, causes activation of LED 144 on a continuous basis. This is due to current flow through LED 144 via resistor 145.If a bad lamp output 136 is high, the failure indicator causes output 157 to remain in a low voltage state which causes conintuous activation of LED 146 by current flow through resistor 147 from the Vcc3 source. An intermediate priority is obtained when a badPCB output 132 is in a high state which causes the failure indicator module 142 to generate a pulsed signal on output 157. The pulse timing is controlled by the two second input to the failure indicator module from timing generator 92. This intermittent high condition on output 157 causes LED 144 to be pulsated on and off at a one half hertz rate Figure 1 . Failure indicator 142 generates a signal on inter module output 148 when any failure condition is sensed. This signal is transferred to the status indicator module 150 and to logic gate 151 associated with alarm driver 152. The status indicator, upon receipt of such a failure signal, generates a pulsed high level signal on output 153 which, as seen inFigures 1 and 1B, causes LED 81 to be pulsed on and off at one second intervals due to current flow through resistor 154. This the highest priority setting of the status indicator as indicated above in Table 3. Upon receipt of a failure signal from output 148, alarm driver module 152 generates a low level signal on output 156 which, as seen in Figure 1, causes energisation of an alarm 160. This feature can be overridden by closing switch 167 and thus grounding the alarm inhibit input 169 of supervisory IC 32. As seen in Figure 4D, this input is connected to exclusiveOR gate 157 which, in turn, signals the alarm driver to remain in a deactivated state. As also shown inFigure 4D, if alarm driver module 152 is activated, it not only energises output 156, but also generates a signal on inter module output 158. This output is connected to AND gate 159 and causes the unit ready module 141 to deactivate its output 149 regardless of its previous state.The unit ready indicator module generates a high output under other circumstances when the charger control module generates a signal on its float output line 143. The unit ready LED 79 is only shown in phantom in Figure 1B since its use is optional. As described herein, various system parameters are tested by the present invention. The annunciation of any sensed failure condition is maintained even if there is a utility black out or brown out. As seen in Figures 1 and 4A 4D, the supervisory IC 32 receives battery power via line 64 BP input . This battery power is sufficient to energise supervisory IC 32 including activation of its failure latches 134 and indicator modules 141, 142, 150, 152, 172 and 178. Thus, although the indicator LENDS 74, 78, 79, 81, 82, 144 and 146 are not energised if there is a loss of utility power due to loss of Vcc3 power, they are properly energised upon return of utility power. The one month and six month testing is activated by the above described circuitry for periods of time as set forth in Table 5 above. Thus, the self testing sub system of the present invention periodically examines the critical parameters of an emergency lighting system for a period of time sufficient to simulate actual operation. Indeed, the six month test which can be programmed to initiate a test from 30, 60, 90 or 120 minutes actually tests the emergency lighting system under rated time durations required by applicable building safety codes. Not only does the self test operation insure proper functioning of the emergency lighting system, but it also causes periodic discharge of the battery with subsequent recharging by the charger circuitry. This discharge recharge cycling exercises the battery which prolongs its useful life and insures that it will have a high discharge capacity when required in an actual emergency. As seen in Figures 4C 4D in conjunction with Figures 1 and lB, a unit ready indicator module 141 receives a signal on output 143 from the charger control circuit 111 when the charger control circuit is in a float voltage mode. The float voltage mode, as seen inFigure 2, is indicative of the entire system being ready for an emergency such as loss of utility power or a brown out condition. The unit ready indicator module generates a signal during such times on its output 149 which, as seen in Figure 1, thereby turns on transistor 139 which, in turn, causes the energisation of light emitting diode 79. This result is visually observable as seen in Figure 1B and can be communicated through the communication I O module to the host computer. In addition to performing the automatic self testing functions, the emergency lighting supervisory system as explained above in the Overall Operation section, also continuously monitors the electrolyte level of the battery, the voltage on the battery and the status of the charger. As shown in Figures 4B 4C the LEL IN input 70 is compared with a 2.1 volt source 166 by comparator 168. If a low electrolyte level is sensed, the LEL output 170 changes state which causes LEL indicator module 172 to generate a two second on off pulsed signal on its output 76. This output, as shown in Figure 1, causes pulsed activation of LED 78. The LEL output signal also turns the charger control module off so as to avoid damage to the battery. Similarly, as shown in Figures 4C and 4D, the battery voltage is sensed for an over voltage condition by inter connecting the battery sense BS input 57 to comparator 174 where it is compared to a voltageV1 from band gap reference module 129. If the sensed battery voltage exceeds voltage V1, charger control module 111 turns off the SCRD driver module 116. This result is achieved by QR gate 176 in combination with AND gate 177. Output 181 of AND gate 177 is connected to OR gate 112 which, in turn, disables the charger control upon receipt of a high signal. Gates 176 and 177 also cause the high low indicator module 178 to generate a two second on off pulsed signal on output 72 which causes LED 74 see Figures 1 and 1B to be pulsed on and off. This high voltage status of the battery is also transferred to the communication 1 0 port 162 for annunicating this condition to an interconnected host see Figure 6 . The sensing of a low battery voltage is achieved in an analogous manner by comparing the battery sense voltage input 57 to voltage V4 from the band gap reference module 129. Comparator 180 performs this task. The output from gate 177 again causes the high low indicator to generate a pulsed signal on output 72 so as to annunciate this condition. Such a condition also deactivates the battery charger module. Thus, both the high or low voltage condition of the battery cause the same annunciation to occur on the high low indicator LED 74. The high low battery monitoring circuit just described is inhibited for a period of twelve hours or until an equalisation potential is reached, whenever a transfer from line power to battery power occurs during either an actual failure of utility power or due to the self test situation occurring. This condition also occurs upon initial application of utility power to the system after installation. Thus, the battery can be charged even though its initial voltage is less than the low battery value examined by comparator 180. As seen in Figures 4C and 4D, the equalisation voltage condition is sensed by comparing the battery sense input 41 with voltage V2 from the band gap reference module 129. Comparator 182 generates a signal on output 183 when voltage V2 is exceeded. This output signal is connected to OR gate 184 where it is gated with the twelve hour output from timing generator 92.Either signal resets the high low inhibitor module 175 and therefore makes it operational. If the battery is still in constant charge mode mode 43 as seen inFigure 2 when the 12for signal is received, the high low module 175 generates a low signal on output 181. This signal is inverted at the input to AND gate 177 and therefore a high signal is generated on RED output 189 if LO BATTERY output 179 is high as it would be if the battery is at a low voltage . The signal on output 181 then disables the charger control module 111. The charger control module 111, in combination with the SCRD driver module 116, monitor and control battery charging by controlling the state of the SCRD output 118. The charger control module 111 senses the float and equalisation comparator outputs 183 and 184 from comparators 182 and 185 so as to insure proper battery charging. As seen in Figures 4A, 4C and 4E, the reference voltages V3 and V2 applied to the float and equalise comparators have a negative temperature coefficient of 0.2 per degree Celsius. This temperature compensation provides close matching of the actual charging voltages to the ideal charging voltages for sealed lead acid batteries. Indeed, reference voltagesV1 through V5 produced by band gap reference module 129 all have a negative temperature coefficient.As seen inFigures 4C and 4E, voltages V1, V4 and V5 are the respective reference voltages for hi battery comparator 174, battery comparator 180, and bad battery comparator 138 V5 is also applied to the low voltage sence comparator 113 . Their negative temperature coefficients also provide more accurate determinations of faulty conditions. The charger control module, through inputs fromOR gate 112, is de activated whenever the transfer enable output 109 is activated, when the LEL electrolyte level output 76 is activated, or when the high low battery output 72 is activated. As seen in Figure 4C, comparator 107 senses the voltage at the battery sense BS input 41 and from a 0.7 voltage reference. The signal on output 102 of this comparator initialises day month counter 98 and resets failure latches 134 until utility AC power is connected to the emergency lighting system, Therefore, this circuit prevents the transfer enable module 108 from causing the system to enter emergency mode operation while the system is being installed. A low voltage disconnect control module 187 senses, through AND gate 188, outputs 190 and 191 from low voltage disconnect enable comparator 193 and low voltage disconnect comparator 192. Comparator 192 receives a voltage V7 from band gap reference 129. The LVD enable output 190 is high when loss of utility power occurs. At this time, the LVD output 191 becomes high if the battery sense voltage BS falls below reference voltage V7 established by the band gap reference. If this occurs, the battery voltage is sufficiently low that further drain on the battery due to current flow through lamp s 66 and to band gap reference module 129 should no longer occur.Such a battery disconnect is accomplished by the LVD control module 187 generating a signal on output 195 which is transferred to OR gate 196 and to the band gap reference module 129. Upon receipt of this signal, the band gap reference module becomes disabled so as to no longer place a load on the battery while receipt of the signal by OR gate 196 is logically combined with the fifteen minute time signal from timing generator 92 so as to reset the transfer enable control module 108 thereby disabling its output 109 until a set signal is received throughOR gate 198. Thus, both the emergency lights and the band gap reference module are disconnected from the battery thereby preventing damage to the battery through deep discharge. The LVD control module i87 is reset upon return of utility power which causes LVD enable output 190 to change state. The LVD control module cannot be activated during a self test since determination of the battewystate is desired. LVD enable comparator 193 achieves this result by preventing AND gate 188 from generating a high output when its output 190 is low. This output is low as long as utility power is present at normal voltages. The transfer enable control module 108 comprises set reset flipflops and random logic. It is set by receipt of a signal from the power failure or brown out output 200 BRO POF in Figure 4A which, in turn, is generated by comparators 201 and 202 in combination with OR gate 203. The brown out signal 204 as seen in Figure 1 is sensed by the wiper of potentiometer 69 while the power fail signal actually is the Vcc3 input from line 39 see Figure 1 . As seen inFigure 4A, this signal is compared to one half the battery power signal BP 2 from input 206. As mentioned above with respect to the low voltase disconnect description, the transfer enable control is disabled when a low voltage battery condition is sensed. As best seen in Figures 4A and aE, timing generator 92 produces a 15 minute signal on output 171. This output is connected to one of the inputs of OR gate 196 which, in turn, resets the transfer enable control module 108 upon receipt of a pulse signal from this output. Until this signal is received, the transfer enable control module remains activated after an emergency power condition has been sensed by the system.Thus, return of normal utility power will not remove battery power until eXpiration of approximately 15 minutes.This time lag between restoration of utility power and extinguishing the emergency lamps allows high intensity discharge HID lamps commonly used in commercial establishments to come up to full brightness before the emergency lamps are deactivated. The band gap voltage reference module 129 generates voltage outputs V1 through V7. Voltages V6 also called VF and V7 have a zero temperature co efficient for the LVD comparator 192, the LVD enable comparator 193 and the initial battery reset comparator 107, while voltages V1 through V5 for use respectively in the high battery comparator 174, the equalise comparator 182, the float comparator 185, the low battery comparator 180 and the bad battery comparator 138 have a 0.2 ,ó C temperature co efficient. This negative temperature coefficient adjustment to these reference voltages provides appropriate modification to the battery charger float voltage so as to approximate the optimal charger voltage to the battery depending upon the ambient temperature of the system. Resistive networks 205 and 206 are used to generate these voltages by voltage dividing the band gap generated reference voltages. Figures 4A and 5AE, 5AF, 5AL, 5A23, SAS and 5AT illustrate the bias circuitry module 186. This module generates the current sources necessary for driving the logic circuitry within supervisory IC 32. The communication input output I O port and CODEC module code decode 162 shown in Figure 4B monitors the six parallel input output lines R W, S0, S1, S2 and S4 from an associated communication circuit. As seen in Figure 6, a communication circuit module 208 converts the parallel data on the So through So lines and the commands and responses on the R W line into serial data on output bus comprising lines 209 and 210. As seen in Figure 6, a plurality of emergency lighting supervisory systems 20 with their associated communication circuit module 208 can be attached to the serial bus and thereby can be accessed by a host computer system 212.The communication modules can be physically separated by hundreds of feet and thus the interconnected supervisory systems can monitor all the emergency lighting and exit signs in an office building or other corrrmercial or industrial establishment. The host computer system can ascertain the results of self tests performed by the individual emergency lighting supervisory systems as well as initiate these self tests through individually accessing the supervisory systems 20. In operation, each of the six lines connected between the supervisory system 20 and the communication circuit 208 have three states that is, they may be high, low or high impedence. When the R W line is pulsed low by the communication circuit 208, the emergency lighting supervisory circuit, through the communication I O port and code decode module 162, is ready to receive data over the Sg through S4 lines.This data is decoded by module 162 into such messages as Start a minute self test Start a 30 minute self test Report status If a start self test message is sent, it is communicated to the self test control module 102 via line 133. The duration of the test is controlled by the coded information received on lines 213 to the self test duration module 204. When a self test is started by the emergency lighting supervisory circuit, a Rself test started message is transferred to the So S4 data lines which can then be interrogated by the host computer 212 Figure 5 by pulsing theR W line. Upon receipt of a report status1 message, the emergency supervisory lighting system transmits data on the S0 S lines concerning the status of the high low indicator 178, the level comparator output 170, along with the output from the self test failure latches bad lamp output 136, bad printed circuit board output 132 and bad battery output 140 .The actual encoded data on the S0 So lines as well as the command or response communication on the R W line is presented in Table 6 below Table 6 Parallel Data Bit Codes Bits Command SO S1 S2 S3 S4 Respond Meaninq X X X 0 1 C Start 30 minute self testGroup I X X X 1 1 C Start 5 minuteMessages self test 0 0 1 0 0 R Self test started 0 0 0 0 0 R Self test not started X X X 1 0 C Report status 1 X X X X R Hi Lo battery X 1 X X X R Charger in floatGroup II modeMessages X X 1 1 X R Bad battery X X 1 0 X R Bad PC board X X 0 1 X R Bad bulb X X X X 1 R Low electrolyte 0 1 0 0 0 R Unit ready x don t care condition As best seen in Figures 3A and 3B in conjunction with Figure 6, communication between emergency lighting supervisory circuit 20 and the communication circuit 208 is performed in a prescribed manner. In particular,Figure 3A shows that the serial communication by the communication module 208 onto serial lines 209 and 210, 18 bits of binary information 18 baud must be transmitted for either receiving a message from a particular communication module by the host computer or for sending a message from the host computer to a selected communication module. This serial information specifically includes 2 start bits for identifying the beginning of a message, followed by 14 bits comprising the message, and 2 stop bits indicating the end of the message. The 14 message bits are further broken down onto 8 bits which are directed to addressing one of the possible 256 communication circuit modules 208 that can be attached to the serial bus lines 209 and 210 , 5 bits for determining the status of the Sg through S4 lines and 1 bit for parity. The 8 bits of address can either be of a 1 or 0 and therefore 28 that is, 2 raised to the 8th power is equal to 256. This accounts for the maximum number of communication chips which can be connected to one serial line and still be individually addressable. The 5 data bits correspond to the on or off condition of each of the S0 through S4 lines while the parity bit is a bit which is either on or off depending upon the state of the 8 address bits and 5 So S4 data bits.Parity is used to help ensure that the data transmitted is accurately received. The actual communication between the communication circuit module 208 and the communication I O port and CODEC module 162 of the emergency lighting supervisory system 20 is best understood with reference to Figure 3B taken in conjunction with Figure 6. In Figure 6, the actual transfer of information can be to or from the supervisory system I O module 162 depending upon whether a read or write command is in effect that is, whether the particular communication circuit module 208 is to read information from the emergency lighting supervisory system 20 or is to write information to the emergency lighting supervisory circuit. The through S4 and R W lines actually can transfer information in either direction. Figure 3B shows that for each baud time there is both a write interval where data transfer is from the communication circuit module 208 to the supervisoryI O module 162, and a read interval where the data transfer is from the supervisory I O module 162 to the communication circuit module 208. Consequently, these data transfers occur during a much shorter period of time than that which accounts for one baud. Specifically, it is seen that if the R W line has a negative going pulse 216, the data lines So S4 S will transmit data from the communication circuit to the supervisory circuit during the period of time ta that this write pulse is in effect, which as seen in Figure 3B is for a period of 1 32nd of one baud time. For the transfer of data from the communication I O module 162 to the communication circuit 208, the positive going read pulse on the R W line 218 also occurs for 1 32nd of one baud time with the data to be transmitted occurring during that period of time time period tb . It should be noted that during such transfer of information by the So S4 lines, any particular line may have a high or low state representing a 1 or a 0 depending upon the message being transmitted as fully shown in Table 6. Thus, the total data transfer interval between the communication circuit and the communication I O module 162 equals one baud time although communication between the two circuits only occurs if the particular communication circuit has been selected for either receipt or transfer of information by the host computer.In actuality, each communication module receives the address information the first 8 bits of the message proper but only accepts the data bits if the address information coincides with its address. As seen in Figure 6, the determination of whether a particular communication circuit is to receive or transmit informtion is based upon its address. Its address is determined by the position of switches 220, 221, 222, 223, 224, 225, 226 and 227 which correspond to the Ao through A7 address lines of the communication circuit. Provided that each communication circuit has a unique arrangement for these switches, each communication circuit can be individually selected by the host computer. Therefore, each supervisory system can be individually selected. It is therefore possible with the communication circuitry used with the present invention that emergency lighting units and exit signs throughout an entire building may be selectively interrogated and tested by a remote host computer, thereby greatly alleviating the maintenance required for such lighting units and exit sign units while ensuring that they remain in an operational state. It is therefore seen that the emergency lighting supervisory circuit according to the present invention achieves a new level of sophistication in the emergency lighting art by performing automatic self testing under full load conditions of critical system parameters as well as continuous monitoring of other parameters that are indicative of the overall status of the emergency lighting supervisory system. In addition to performing automatic self test and continual monitoring of critical system parameters. the present invention is also able, under command from an external host, to initiate test and to report status from those tests as well as from its continuously monitored parameters.The emergency lighting supervisory system further annunciates such information on a display panel so as to provide a visual and audible indication of its status, the audible indication occurring when an alarm condition exists. The emergency lighting supervisory circuit also includes automatic battery disconnect when a lowvoltage battery condition is sensed. In addition, through periodic self testing, battery capacity is maintained at optimal levels. It is therefore seen that the objects set forth above, and those made apparent from the preceding description, are efficiently attained, and since certain changes may be made in the above system without departing from the scope of the invention, it is intended that all matter contained in the above description or shown in the accompanying drawings shall be interpreted as illustrative and not in a limiting sense. It is also to be understood that the following claims are intended to cover all of the generic and specific features of the invention described, and all statements of the scope of the invention which, as a matter of language, might be said to fall therebetween.