# A PROCESS FOR THE PREPARATION OF FOOD FLAVOURS

## Claims
Verfahren zur Herstellung eines Nahrungsmittelaromas durch Inaktivierung von Hefe und durch deren anschließenden Abbau mit Enzymen, dadurch

## Description
The invention relates to a process for the preparation of a food flavour by enzymatic treatment of yeast. Such processes are known in the art. Yeast autolysates, which are prepared by subjecting yeast to degradation by the endogeneous enzyme material of yeast, are well known as food additives. The autolysis can be induced by incubating the yeast cells at a higher temperature by addition of organic solvents, such as ethyl acetate or toluene, by using an increased salt concentration or a combination of these methods. This results in an inactivation of the yeast cells but the enzymes of the yeast material remain active and are available for the actual degradation. Also there are US A 3 443 969 Nabuo Nakajima et al. and US 3 809 780 Kengo Ishida et al. which disclose the treatment of yeast materials with certain enzyme materials resulting in the production of condiments seasoning agents. However, no suitable food flavours were thus obtained. The main conversion taking place during autolysis is the degradation of proteins to peptides and amino acids. The autolysates thus obtained usually have a typical bitter and yeast like taste. A further disadvantage of these autolysates is that they contain 3 ribonucleotides because the endogeneous ribonuclease converts RNA into 3 ribonucleotides, which make no contribution to the flavour. It is also known in the art to improve the enzymatic degradation of yeast by first degrading the cell walls with an appropriate enzyme, which results in an increase in the yield of autolysate cf. US Specification US A 3 682 778, Kyowa Hakko Kogyo . Furthermore, it is known to increase the yield in biodegradation processes by using proteolytic enzymes in conjunction with the endogeneous enzymes cf. US Specification US A 4 218 481, Standard Oil Co . Additionally, it is known from Japanese Specification JP A 73 07780 to treat defatted soybean protein with acid protease followed by fermentation with yeast. The fermentation suppresses amino acid formation, eliminates glutamic acid and reduces soybean flavour. The resulting product is a substantially tasteless acidic peptide solution. Finally, Dutch specification NL A 65 01962 BE A 659 731 GB A 1 032 687 Nestlé discloses the enzymatic degradation of inactivated yeast. According to the present invention an improved food flavour is prepared by carrying out the enzymatic degradation of inactivated yeast with at least an enzyme having proteolytic activity, in conjunction with fermentation with yeast or lactic acid producing micro organisms. The organoleptic properties ot the flavour material thus obtained are improved as there is no biter taste and no, or a less pronounced, yeast like note. Moreover, organic acids like lactic acid, succinic acid, etc. also improve the taste. Suitable yeast starting materials belong to the group consisting of Prior to the enzymatic degradation of the yeast, the yeast is inactivated, e.g. by heat treatment at a temperature between 70 and 150 C for 5 to 120 minutes. Inactivation by cooking usually requires an aqueous suspension with a dry matter content up to 30 . Inactivation is, of course, also possible by means of the addition of chemicals or e.g. by radiation. Once the yeast has been inactivated, both enzymatic degradation and fermentation are carried out in any sequence or simultaneously, provided that a carbon source is available for fermentation. The enzymatic degradation of the inactivated yeast is carried out by means of suitable enzyme preparations of bacterial, vegetable, yeast or animal origin. The enzyme preparation used, apart from proteolytic activity, preferably has also one or more than one of the other following activities Preferably one or more of the following enzymes are used Depending on the particular enzyme used, the incubation is carried out at a pH between 2 and 10 and a temperature between 20 and 80 C. Pepsin e.g. has an optimal activity at pH 2 3, protease from Streptomyces griseus an optimum at pH 9 10 and papain is still active at 70 80 C. Beta glucanase derived from The incubation is usually carried out at a temperature between 20 and 70 C and a pH between 3 and 7. e.g. alpha and beta amylase, derived from Use of e.g. phosphodiesterase, e.g. obtained from malt rootlets or fungal extracts. These are used at pH 3 9 and at a temperature of 20 80 C. Sometimes it is advantageous to add some RNA and or protein before this step is carried out. Pancreatin or pancreatic lipase which is incubated at pH 5 10 and at a temperature between 20 and 70 C. The enzymatic degradation step of the present invention usually combines several of these enzymatic activities. This can be achieved by simultaneous incubation with a number of enzymes. Also a plurality of incubations with different enzymes is possible, often under different conditions of pH and temperature. There are, of course, also a number of enzyme preparations commercially available which combine several enzymatic activities, such as pancreatin, etc. When a plurality of enzymatic actions is used, the incubation may lead to the formation of amino acids, peptides, mono and disaccharides, 5 ribonucleotides and fatty acids. It is preferred to use such a plurality of enzyme that proteolytic activity is combined with RNA degradation. More preferred is to include also cell wall degrading enzyme and or lipolytic enzyme. In accordance with the present invention the enzymatic degradation is used in conjunction with fermentation with yeast or lactic acid producing micro organisms. Preferably enzymatic degradation is followed by fermentation so that saccharides are converted inter alia into organic acids like lactic acid, succinic acid, etc. It is also advantageous to carry out enzymatic degradation simultaneously with fermentation. Fermentation by micro organisms is usually carried out at a pH from 4.5 to 7.5 and at a temperature of 20 65 C, for a period ranging between 4 hours and 14 days. In the practice of the present invention, micro organisms are applied which are generally used in the preparation of milk products, meat and meat products, fermented vegetables, fermented beverages, bread, pickles and sauces, such as The yeast extract obtained in accordance with the present invention typically comprises Once enzymatic degradation and fermentation have been carried out, further downstream processing of the resulting product is recommendable, such as removal of insoluble material filtration or centrifuging , concentration evaporation of water, spray drying, oven drying, drum drying or freeze drying, optionally in the presence of a carrier like maltodextrin or pasteurization e.g. for 5 10 minutes at 80 C. Any sequence is feasible. The food flavour thus obtained can be used as such to impart or reinforce the flavour of foodstuffs, optionally in combination with other flavouring materials. The combination can be physical mixing or chemically reacting to form reaction flavours. The invention also comprises the yeast extract prepared by the processes described above. One embodiment of the present invention is therefore a process for flavouring foodstuffs by incorporating in the foodstuff a flavour as disclosed hereinbefore. More in particular the flavour material is used to improve the flavour of soups, meat products, instant gravies, margarine, frying fat, drinks, bakery products, cheese, confectionary products and the like. The amount of flavour used in the foodstuffs varies widely but usually ranges between 0.1 and 10 calculated as dry yeast extract flavour on the foodstuff ready for consumption . Preferably these amounts range between 0.15 and 5 . 0.67 kg of 2.2 g of MKC cellulase P 4000 ex Miles Kali Chemie GmbH Co KG, Hannover Kleefeld, Germany having an activity of 4,000 CU g were added and the mixture was stirred for 16 hours at 60 C. The slurry was then heated to 100 C for 10 minutes, cooled to 50 C and the pH was adjusted to 7.0 by the addition of some aqueous sodium hydroxide. 3.0 g of Brew N zym GPGL ex Jan Dekker, Wormerveer, The Netherlands having a proteolytic activity of 100 NU ml were then added and the mixture was stirred for 3 hours at 50 C. The mixture was then heated to 100 C for 5 minutes and 0.5 kg of water were added and the slurry was cooled to 40 C, after which the pH of the slurry was adjusted to 5.8 by the addition of phosphoric acid. Now 0.5 v v of a pre culture of Subsequently the insoluble matter was removed from the slurry by filtration, the filtrate was pasteurized at 80 C for 20 minutes and concentrated and a paste with a dry matter content of 60 was obtained. This product was completely water soluble and had a low sodium chloride content. Upon organoleptic comparison with yeast autolysate, the product according to the present invention showed a better meat like taste and, moreover, the yeast like note, which so often occurs with yeast autolysates, was absent. 0.2 kg of 20 kg of MKC hemicellulase ex Miles Kali Chemie GmbH Co KG, Hannover Kleefeld, Germany, having an activity of 2,500 HCU g were then added together with 5 g of malt rootlets ex Export Mouterij Nederland , Wageningen, The Netherlands, dry matter content of 94 and the mixture was stirred for 16 hours at 60 C. The pH of the slurry was then adjusted to 5.0 by the addition of some aqueous sodium hydroxide. 0.8 g of papain ex Merck Co, Darmstadt, Germany, with an activity of 30,000 USP U mg and 0.1 g of cystein were added, after which the mixture was stirred for 3 hours at 60 C. The slurry was then heated to 100 C for 10 minutes and 0.33 kg of water were added. The slurry was cooled to 45 C and the pH was adjusted to 5.8 by the addition of some aqueous sodium hydroxide. Now 0.2 v v of a pre culture of Subsequently the solid material was separated by centrifuging and the clear solution thus obtained was pasteurized and concentrated. Spray drying on a conventional carrier yielded a yellowish powder that was microbially stable and had an excellent flavour. 0.07 kg of The mixture was then stirred for 16 hours at 60 C. Subsequently 8.8 g of papain ex Merck was added and the further procedure as described in Example 2 was followed. 0.2 kg of 2.0 g of MKC Cellulase P 4000 ex Miles Kali Chemie GmbH Co KG, Hannover Kleefeld, Germany, with an activity of 4,000 CU g were added and 1.0 g of Bromelain ex Sigma Chemie GmbH, Taufkirchen, West Germany, with an activity of 2,000 U g , after which the mixture was stirred for 8 hours at 55 C. The slurry was then cooled to 40 C and 0.25 kg of water were added and the pH was adjusted to 5.8. Now 0.8 v v of a pre culture of Subsequently 0.1 v v of a fresh densely grown pre culture of 0.2 kg of 1.0 g of pancreatin ex Merck, Darmstadt, Germany, having an activity of 30,000 FIP U g lipase were added to the slurry and this was stirred for 2 hours at 60 C. The pH of the slurry was then adjusted to 4.0 by the addition of some aqueous phosphoric acid. 10 g of Brew N enzym Filtranase L 5 ex Jan Dekker, Wormerveer, The Netherlands, having an activity of 9,500 Endo beta 1,4 glucanase U ml were added together with 0.8 g of ficin ex Sigma Chemie GmbH, Taufkirchen, West Germany, activity 1.5 U mg protein and stirred for 6 hours at 60 C. The slurry was then heated to 100 C for 10 minutes and the slurry was cooled to 40 C and the pH was adjusted to 5.8 by the addition of some aqueous sodium hydroxide. Now 0.5 v v of a pre culture of The slurry was then processed as described in Example 2 and a fine yellowish powder was obtained. A meat flavour composition was prepared by mixing of the following ingredients The mixture was heated for 90 minutes whilst refluxing. After cooling to 40 C, 200 g of maltodextrin and 200 g of water were added. The solution thus obtained was spray dried. The spray dried powder, when added to an 0.5 aqueous solution of cooking salt in an amount of 1.5 , imparted an excellent taste of boiled beef, which closely resembled the taste of authentic beef broth. 2.5 g of a spray dried yeast extract as prepared according to Example 5 were added to the following dry soup composition The total composition was taken up in 1 litre of water and boiled for 20 minutes. An expert tasting panel found the soup rounded off, savoury and sweet beef like. 2.5 g of a spray dried yeast extract obtained according to Example 3 was added to the dry soup composition described in Example 7. The total composition was taken up in 1 litre water and boiled for 20 minutes. An expert taste panel found the soup to have a more rounded off taste, spicy and resembling sweet chicken flesh. 2.0 g of a spray dried yeast extract as described in Example 4 were added to the fish sauce composition After heating the composition to 100 C, a sauce was obtained having a full flavoured fresh taste, which sauce was used successfully in the ratio of 2 parts of sauce to 1 part of boiled codfish. 0.1 part of spray dried yeast extract as prepared according to Example 2 was added to the aqueous phase of a margarine, which aqueous phase consisted for This mixture was adjusted to pH 5.6. The fat phase consisted of 10 hardstock obtained by interesterification of hydrogenated soybean oil melting point 43 C and 42 palm oil melting point 58 C and 90 liquid sunflower oil and worked into a margarine in the usual way. When used as a table margarine, a cool cream like impression was obtained. When used as a frying margarine, at 140 C a sweet flavoured taste developed reminiscent of dairy butter.