# HIGH IMPACT RESISTANT POLYAMIDE

## Claims
Thermoplastische Masse mit hoher Schlagfestigkeit, wobei die genannte Masse eine Polyamidharz Matrix enthält, das ein amorphes Polyamid enthält, wobei das genannte Polyamid eine scheinbare Schmelzviskosität von 300 Ns m² 3000 poise oder größer aufweist, wenn die Messung bei 280 C bei einer Schergeschwindigkeit von 100 sec ¹ durchgeführt wird, wobei das genannte Polyamid in der Masse in einer Menge von 75 bis 85 Gew. der Masse vorhanden ist und mindestens 15 Gew. der Masse Teilchen eines Schlagfestmachers ausmachen, die in der genannten Polyamidharz Matrix dispergiert sind, wobei die genannten Teilchen des Schlagfest machers, wie durch Kleinwinkel Rötgenstrahlstreuung bestimmt, eine Teilchengröße von weniger als etwa 360 nm aufweisen, wobei die genannten Teilchen des Schlagfestmachers, bezogen auf die thermoplastische Masse, bestehen aus 5 bis 21 Gew. a eines ionomeren Terpolymeren bestehend aus 40 bis 93 Gew. Einheiten, die sich von Ethylen ableiten, mindestens 5 Gew. Einheiten, die sich von einem Acrylat der Formel

## Description
This invention relates to polyamide resins that have high impact resistance at low temperatures. More particularly, this invention relates to amorphous polyamides that contain at least a particular amount of dispersed toughener particles of two particular groups of chemical compositions and have a particle size of less than about 360 nm as determined by the small angle X ray scattering technique disclosed. Toughened nylon compositions are commercial high volume products. Such compositions contain a continuous nylon phase and a dispersed toughener phase. Such compositions are disclosed in Epstein, U.S. Patent 4,174,358 dated November 13, 1979. The present invention is an improvement over the compositions disclosed in the Epstein patent, in that it has been found that certain amorphous nylons, when toughened with a combination of certain specific tougheners, in certain specific amounts, and the tougheners exist in the amorphous nylon as particles having a particle size of less than about 360 nm, yield fabricated parts having higher impact resistance at room temperature than those previously known. EP A3 0156523 published after the priority date of the claims of this application discloses high impact resistant polyamide resins containing an amorphous polyamide and as a toughener dispersed particles of EPDM copolymer grafted with succinic anhydride. EP A3 0072480 discloses a high impact composition comprising a polyamide, an ethylene ionomer resin and an elastomeric ethylene copolymer in specified proportions. The present invention is a thermoplastic composition comprising an amorphous polyamide matrix resin and a blend of ionomer and copolymer particles dispersed in the polyamide matrix resin. The polyamide must be of high molecular weight and have an apparent melt viscosity of 3000 poise or more, when measured on a sample that contains no more than 0.15 by weight water, the measurement being made at 280 C and at a shear rate of 100 sec ¹. The amorphous polyamide must be present in the composition in the amount of 75 to 85 by weight of the composition. The blend of ionomer and copolymer particles that are dispersed substantially uniformly throughout the amorphous polyamide have a particle size such that when the small angle X ray procedure described herein is applied to a sample of the polymer a particle diameter less than about 360 nm is obtained. The implications of the procedure are that this represents a log normal distribution where one half the mass of the particles have a diameter less than about 360 nm. The copolymer in the copolymer particles has a Mooney viscosity of between 40 to 60. The composition of the copolymer particles is either 1 63 to 73 by weight units derived from ethylene, 24 to 30 by weight units derived from propylene, 3.0 to 6.5 by weight units derived from hexadiene, and 0 to 0.536 by weight units derived from norbornadiene containing succinic anhydride groups grafted thereto in the amount of 0.25 to 2.25 by weight of the copolymer, or 2 mixtures of at least 35 weight percent 1 and up to 65 weight percent of the copolymers of 1 which do not have succinic anhydride groups grafted thereto. The copolymer is present in the composition in the amount of from 4 to 20 by weight of the composition. The ionomers useful in the present invention are terpolymers consisting of from 40 to 93 wt. units derived from ethylene, at least 5 wt. of units derived from an acrylate of the formula wherein R is an alkyl group containing 2 to 10 carbon atoms, R is H or CH₃ and from 2 to 20 wt. of units derived from acrylic acid or methacrylic acid. The preferred ionomers contain from 70 to 85 wt. ethylene units, 10 to 20 wt. of the above defined acrylate units and 5 to 15 wt. acrylic acid or methacrylic acid units. The ionomer particles are present in the amount of from 5 to 21 by weight of the composition. The copolymer and ionomer particles in some of the compositions of the invention are present in amounts such that their weight plus the weight of the amorphous polyamide polymer combine to make 100 of the thermoplastic components of the compositions of the invention. The compositions of the invention may contain various fillers, reinforcing ingredients such as glass fibers, pigments, stabilizers, mold release agents, antistatic agents and the like all of which are known to those skilled in the art. The thermoplastic amorphous polyamides may be obtained from at least one aromatic dicarboxylic acid containing 8 18 carbon atoms and at least one diamine selected from the class consisting of i 4 12 carbon normal aliphatic straight chained diamine, and ii 8 20 carbon cycloaliphatic diamines containing at least one cycloaliphatic ring. Preferred diacids are isophthalic and terephthalic acids. Especially preferred are mixtures containing 60 to 70 mole isophthalic acid and 40 to 30 mole terephthalic acid. Preferred diamines are hexamethylenediamine and bis p aminocyclohexyl methane PACM, hereinafter . PACM is available as a mixture of three stereoisomers cis, cis cis, trans and trans, trans. Any isomer mixture can be used. Especially preferred are mixtures containing up to 10 mole PACM isomers and 90 to 100 mole hexamethylenediamine, in particular mixtures containing 2 to 10 mole percent of PACM isomers and 90 to 98 mole percent of hexamethylene diamine. Amorphous polyamides prepared from the especially preferred mixtures of diacids and the especially preferred mixtures of diamines have glass transition temperatures above 120 C. Amorphous polyamides will generally have no distinct melting point and a heat of fusion of less than 1 cal gram. The heat of fusion is conveniently determined by use of a differential scanning calorimeter DSC . A suitable calorimeter is The Du Pont Company s 990 thermal analyzer, Part No. 990000 with cell base II, Part No. 990315, and DSC cell, Part No. 900600. With this instrument, heat of fusion can be measured at a heating rate of 20 C per minute. The sample is alternately heated to a temperature above the anticipated melting point and cooled rapidly by cooling the sample jacket with liquid nitrogen. The heat of fusion is determined on any heating cycle after the first and should be a constant value, within experimental error. The apparent melt viscosity of the polyamides at 280 C was determined by standard techniques with a capillary rheometer typically with 0.52 mm 0.0205 inch orifice diameter, 14.68 l L D ratio, and 9.5 mm 0.3747 inch piston diameter . The toughened products claimed in this patent may be obtained from amorphous polyamides with an apparent melt viscosity of 3000 poise 300 Ns m² or more at 280 C and a shear rate of 100 sec ¹ when the polyamides contain 0.15 or less water. The toughened products of this invention may be obtained from amorphous polyamides with quite high melt viscosity, for example, a melt viscosity of 20,000 poise 2000 Ns m² at 280 C, 100 sec ¹ shear rate, and 0.05 water. The upper limit of the polyamide melt viscosity is dictated by the ability of the final processing equipment to fabricate articles from high viscosity melts. Those skilled in the art will recognize that materials with comparatively high melt viscosity are desirable in extrusion and blow molding applications while products with lower melt viscosities might be desirable for the injection molding of complicated parts. The copolymers present in the dispersed particles in the composition of the present invention are either 1 copolymers containing 63 to 73 by weight units derived from ethylene, 24 to 30 by weight units derived from propylene, 3.0 to 6.5 by weight units derived from hexadiene, and 0 to 0.536 by weight units derived from norbornadiene having a Mooney viscosity of 40 to 60, The ionomers useful in the present invention are terpolymers containing from 40 to 93 wt. units derived from ethylene, from 5 to 60 wt. of units derived from an acrylate of the formula wherein R is an alkyl group containing 2 to 10 carbon atoms, R is H or CH₃ and from 2 to 20 wt. acrylic acid or methacrylic acid. The acid groups are from 0 to 100 neutralized with metal ions, and hence the term ionomer includes neutralised and unneutralised terpolymers. The preferred metal ions are Zn , Mg , Al , Ca , K , Na and Li . Especially preferred is Zn or Zn containing up to 50 based on Zn of Na . The base terpolymer prior to neutralization with metal ions should have a melt index of 1.0 to 100g 10 min. as determined by ASTM D 1238 52T. The ionomers are prepared as described in Rees U.S. 3,264,272. The ionomer particles generally will comprise from 5 to 21 by weight of the composition. The compositions of this invention may be prepared by mixing preweighed, blended quantities of the amorphous polyamides the ionomer and the copolymers tougheners in the molten state under high shear. Such mixing can be accomplished in commercially available equipment such as a 53 mm twin screw extruder manufactured by Werner Pfleiderer Corporation. A satisfactory screw design for an 1860 mm long screw includes mixing elements 750 mm and 1390 mm from the feed end of the screw. Barrel heaters may be set at 260 275 C. A vacuum port may be used near the die. Screw speeds of 200 250 rpm and extrusion rates of 120 230 pph afford the compositions of this invention with melt temperatures of 310 to 340 C measured on the molten strand exiting the die. The strands are quenched in water and pelletized. The pellets are dried to a moisture content of 0.15 by weight or less prior to final processing e.g., injection molding, blow molding, extrusion . The copolymer and ionomer particles in the compositions of this invention must have a particle size such that when the small angle x ray procedure described herein is applied to a sample of the polymer a particle diameter less than about 360 nm is obtained. The implications of the procedure are that this represents a log normal distribution where one half the mass of the particles have a diameter less than about 360 nm. The particle size distribution in the compositions of the invention is affected by the following factors the viscosity of the polyamide, the viscosity of the copolymer, the amount of shear applied in mixing the polyamide and the copolymer, and the mixing temperature. Thus, by using a high viscosity polyamide, low viscosity copolymer and ionomer coupled with a large amount of shear during mixing and a low mixing temperature, the desired particle size distribution can be readily achieved. The concentrations for the ingredients in toughened amorphous polyamides are from 4 20 weight copolymer 5 21 weight ionomer tougheners and 85 75 weight amorphous polyamide. Lower concentrations of the copolymer and ionomer tougheners afford products with inadequate low temperature toughness. Higher loadings of copolymer and ionomer toughener give products with inadequate tensile strength and stiffness for most uses. Especially preferred concentrations of the ingredients in the toughened products are 8 12 weight copolymer 6 12 weight ionomer tougheners and 85 78 weight amorphous polyamide. The particle size is determined by small angle x ray scattering, according to the following technique The small angle x ray scattering SAXS data should be acquired on a high resolution instrument such as the one originally designed by Bonse and Hart Scattered x ray intensity data are acquired in the range from 8 to 600 seconds of arc 2 theta . The AMR instrument is calibrated in seconds this corresponds to 0.002 to 0.16 or 4 x 10 ⁵ to 3 x 10 ³ radians. Appropriate step sizes range upwards from 2 seconds of arc as the scattering angle increases 20 points each at step sizes of 2, 4, 8, and 16 seconds will cover the angular range in 81 points. These are slit smeared results, and, after smoothing and subtraction of instrumental background, should be desmeared before interpretation. For this work, the data are desmeared by the method of Schmidt and Hight, Here, ϑ 2ϑ 2 and sinϑ ϑ in radians at these small angles and λ the wavelength of CUKα radiation. These intensity results are converted to the Invariant argument, h² I h , by multiplying each desmeared intensity by the square of the angle of observation for that point. A plot of the invariant argument will be characterized by having a maximum at an angle below 0.04 2 theta if the dispersed particles causing the scattering have diameters of the order of hundreds of nanometers. If the particle size distribution is narrow nearly monodisperse , the particle diameter is inversely proportional to the position of this maximum diameter 4.87 2ϑ In order to characterize a particle size distribution in the manner employed here, two measurements are made on the invariant argument curve. The angular position 2 theta , h A log normal distribution can be characterized by R For each distribution ratio, R The scattering curve from monodisperse spherical particles can be approximated at very low angles by See A. Guinier G. Fournet, or In the compounds of the present invention the characteristic diameter, D The composition of the invention may be fabricated into high impact parts such as automobile body parts, for example bumpers, fender extensions and the like by injection molding, blow molding, extrusion and other similar techniques. The composition of the invention include blends of two or more different amorphous polyamides or blends of crystalline polyamide and amorphous polyamide with the tougheners disclosed. In the Examples which follow yield strength and elongation at break were determined according to ASTM D 638. Flexural modulus was determined 1 4 inch .64 cm specimens according to ASTM D 790. Notched Izod impact 1 4 inch .64 cm specimens was determined according to ASTM D 256. The type of specimen break is noted in the examples and conforms to definitions in ASTM D 256, namely The amorphous nylons containing tougheners were tested dry as molded DAM in Table I . The polyamide used in the Examples 1 6 reported in Table 1, contains 66.8 by weight of polyamide units derived from hexamethylenediaminediamine isophthalamide, 28.6 by weight of polyamide units derived from hexamethylene diamine terephthalamide, 3.2 by weight polyamide units of polyamide derived from bis para aminocyclohexyl methane isophthalamide, and 1.4 by weight polyamide units derived from bis para aminocyclohexyl methane terephthalamide. The polyamide used in Examples 7 14 is a copolymer of isophthalic acid, terephthalic acid and hexamethylene diamine wherein the isophthalic acid and terephthalic acid are present in a weight weight ratio of 65 35. In addition to the polyamide and the amounts of ionomer and copolymer reported in Table I these compositions contain minor amounts of zinc stearate and Irganox 1098 a heat stabilizer. Copolymer 1 used in the examples is a copolymer of propylene 27 1.5 by weight, hexadiene 3.6 4.4 by weight, and norbornadiene 0.2 by weight and the remainder ethylene, with a Mooney viscosity of 48 by ASTM D 1646 ML 2 10 at 121 C grafted with fumaric acid to contain 1.5 to 2.0 by weight succinic anhydride. Copolymer 2 is copolymer 1 without the succinic anhydride. The ionomer used in Examples 1 9, 13 and 14 contained 80 wt. units derived from ethylene, 10 wt. units derived from isobutylacrylate and 10 wt. units derived from methacrylic acid. The ionomer s acid groups were 72 neutralized using zinc metal. The ionomer had a melt index of 35 g 10 min. before neutralization and ca. 1 after neutralization. The ionomer used in Example 12 contained 23 wt. units derived from n butyl acrylate, 8.6 wt. units derived from methacrylic acid, and 70.4 wt. units derived from ethylene. The ionomer s acid groups were 75 80 neutralized using zinc metal. The ionomer had a melt index of 2299 10 min. before neutralization and 0.8 g 10 min. after neutralization. Examples 10 and 11 are controls showing the poorer impact resistance when only the elastomer rather than a combination of elastomer and ionomer is used in the composition. All of the composition of Examples 1 14 were prepared under generally similar conditions within the scope outlined above. Table 2 sets forth the particular extrusion conditions for Examples 1, 2, 3, 7 and 8.