# TETRAHYDROCARBAZOLONE DERIVATIVES

## Claims
Verbindungen der allgemeinen Formel I

## Description
This invention relates to heterocyclic compounds, to processes for their preparation, to pharmaceutical compositions containing them and to their medical use. In particular the invention relates to compounds which act upon certain 5 hydroxytryptamine 5 HT receptors of the type located on terminals of primary afferent nerves. US A 3634420 discloses substituted amino alkylenetetrahydrocarbazoles of the following formula wherein R₁ is hydrogen or lower alkoxy The compounds are said to be physiologically active on the central nervous system and, in particular, to show activity as tranquilizers at non toxic doses. According to one aspect, the present invention provides a tetrahydrocarbazolone of the general formula I wherein R¹ represents a C₃ ₇ cycloalkyl C₁ ₄ alkyl group or a C₃ ₁₀ alkynyl group and one of the groups represented by R², R³ and R⁴ is a hydrogen atom or a C₁ ₆ alkyl, C₃ ₇ cycloalkyl, C₂ ₆ alkenyl or phenyl C₁ ₃ alkyl group and each of the other two groups, which may be the same or different, represents a hydrogen atom or a C₁ ₆ alkyl group and physiologically acceptable salts and solvates e.g. hydrates thereof. When the group R¹ in general formula I represents a C₃ ₇ cycloalkyl C₁ ₄ alkyl group, the C₃ ₇ cycloalkyl moiety may be, for example, a cyclopropyl, cyclobutyl, cyclopentyl, cyclohexyl or cycloheptyl group and the C₁ ₄ alkyl portion may be a methyl, ethyl, propyl, prop 2 yl or butyl group. The group R¹ may therefore represent, e.g. a cyclopropylmethyl, cyclopentylpropyl or a cycloheptylmethyl group. When the cycloalkyl ring contains 5,6 or 7 carbon atoms it may optionally contain one or two double bonds. Examples of such groups include cyclohexenyl and cyclohexadienyl groups. When R¹ represents a C₃ ₁₀ alkynyl group, this may be, for example, a 2 propynyl or 2 octynyl group. It will be understood that when R¹ represents a C₃ ₁₀ alkynyl group, the triple bond may not be adjacent to the nitrogen atom. Referring to the groups represented by R²,R³ and R⁴ in general formula I , an alkyl group may be a straight chain or branched chain alkyl group, for example, a methyl, ethyl, propyl, or prop 2 yl, group It will be appreciated that the carbon atom at the 3 position of the tetrahydrocarbazolone ring is asymmetric and may exist in the R or S configuration. Furthermore, it will be appreciated that depending upon the nature of the groups R¹, R², R³ and R⁴, centres of isomerism may occur elsewhere in the molecule. The present invention encompasses all the individual isomeric forms of the compounds of formula I and all mixtures thereof. Suitable physiologically acceptable salts of the indoles of general formula I include acid addition salts formed with organic or inorganic acids for example, hydrochlorides, hydrobromides, sulphates, phosphates, citrates, fumarates and maleates. The solvates may, for example, be hydrates. A preferred class of compounds represented by the general formula I is that wherein one of the groups represented by R², R³ and R⁴ represents a C₁ ₃ alkyl or C₃ ₆ alkenyl group and each of the other two groups, which may be the same or different, represents a hydrogen atom or a C₁ ₃ alkyl group. When R² represents a hydrogen atom, R³ and or R⁴ preferably represents a C₁ ₃ alkyl group. When R² represents a C₁ ₃ alkyl group R³ and R⁴ both preferably represent hydrogen atoms. Preferred compounds according to the invention include It will be appreciated that the invention extends to other physiologically acceptable equivalents of the compounds according to the invention, i.e. physiologically acceptable compounds which are converted Compounds of the invention are potent and selective antagonists of 5 HT induced responses of the rat isolated vagus nerve preparation and thus act as potent and selective antagonists of the neuronal 5 HT receptor type located on primary afferent nerves. Receptors of this type are also believed to be present in the central nervous system. 5 HT occurs widely in the neuronal pathways in the central nervous system and disturbance of these 5 HT containing pathways is known to alter behavioural syndromes such as mood, psychomotor activity, appetite and memory. It is believed that compounds which antagonise the effect of 5 HT at 5HT receptors of the type located on the terminals of primary afferent nerves will be useful in the treatment of conditions such as psychotic disorders, e.g. schizophrenia and mania anxiety pain and migraine. Unlike existing drug treatments for these conditions the compounds of the invention, because of their high selectivity for 5 HT receptors of the type located on primary afferent nerve terminals, would not be expected to produce undesirable side effects. Thus, for example, neuroleptic drugs exhibit extrapyramidal side effects and may cause tardive dyskinesia, and benzodiazapines may cause dependence. Compounds of formula I and physiologically acceptable salts and solvates thereof are useful in the treatment of a human or animal subject suffering from a condition caused by a disturbance of neuronal 5HT function. Thus, for example, in the treatment of a human subject suffering from a psychotic disorder such as schizophrenia or mania or from anxiety pain or migraine. Accordingly, the invention also provides a pharmaceutical composition which comprises a least one compound selected from 3 imidazolylmethyltetrahydrocarbazolone derivatives of the general formula I and their physiologically acceptable salts and solvates, e.g. hydrates, adapted for use in human or veterinary medicine, and formulated for administration by any convenient route. Such compositions may be formulated in conventional manner using one or more physiologically acceptable carriers or excipients. Thus the compounds of the invention may be formulated for oral, buccal, parenteral, topical or rectal administration or in a form suitable for administration by inhalation or insufflation either through the mouth or the nose . For oral administration, the pharmaceutical compositions may take the form of, for example, tablets or capsules prepared by conventional means with pharmaceutically acceptable excipients such as binding agents e.g. pregelatinised maize starch, polyvinylpyrrolidone or hydroxypropyl methylcellulose fillers e.g. lactose, microcrystalline cellulose or calcium hydrogen phosphate lubricants e.g. magnesium stearate, talc or silica disintegrants e.g. potato starch or sodium starch glycollate or wetting agents e.g. sodium lauryl sulphate . The tablets may be coated by methods well known in the art. Liquid preparations for oral administration may take the form of, for example, solutions, syrups or suspensions, or they may be presented as a dry product for constitution with water or other suitable vehicle before use. Such liquid preparations may be prepared by conventional means with pharmaceutically acceptable additives such as suspending agents e.g. sorbitol syrup, cellulose derivatives or hydrogenated edible fats emulsifying agents e.g. lecithin or acacia non aqueous vehicles e.g. almond oil, oily esters, ethyl alcohol or fractionated vegetable oils and preservatives e.g. methyl or propyl Preparations for oral administration may be suitably formulated to give controlled release of the active compound. For buccal administration the compositions may take the form of tablets or lozenges formulated in conventional manner. The compounds of the invention may be formulated for parenteral administration by injection. Formulations for injection may be presented in unit dosage form e.g. in ampoules or in multi dose containers, with an added preservative. The compositions may take such forms as suspensions, solutions or emulsions in oily or aqueous vehicles, and may contain formulatory agents such as suspending, stabilising and or dispersing agents. Alternatively, the active ingredient may be in powder form for constitution with a suitable vehicle, e.g. sterile pyrogen free water, before use. The compounds of the invention may also be formulated in rectal compositions such as suppositories or retention enemas, e.g. containing conventional suppository bases such as cocoa butter or other glycerides. In addition to the formulations described previously, the compounds of the invention may also be formulated as a depot preparation. Such long acting formulations may be administered by implantation for example subcutaneously or intramuscularly or by intramuscular injection. Thus, for example, the compounds of the invention may be formulated with suitable polymeric or hydrophobic materials for example as an emulsion in an acceptable oil or ion exchange resins, or as sparingly soluble derivatives, for example, as a sparingly soluble salt. For administration by inhalation the compounds according to the invention are conveniently delivered in the form of an aerosol spray presentation from pressurised packs or a nebuliser, with the use of a suitable propellant, e.g. dichlorodifluoromethane, trichlorofluoromethane, dichlorotetrafluoroethane, carbon dioxide or other suitable gas. In the case of a pressurized aerosol the dosage unit may be determined by providing a valve to deliver a metered amount. Capsules and cartridges of e.g. gelatin for use in an inhaler or insufflator may be formulated containing a powder mix of a compound of the invention and a suitable powder base such as lactose or starch. A proposed dose of the compounds of the invention for administration in man of approximately 70kg body weight is 0.05 to 20mg, preferably 0.1 to 10mg of the active ingredient per unit dose which could be administered, for example, 1 to 4 times per day. The dose will depend on the route of administration and the body weight of the patient. It will be appreciated that it may be necessary to make routine variations to the dosage depending on the age and weight of the patient as well as the severity of the condition to be treated. For oral administration a unit dose will preferably contain from 0.5 to 10mg of the active ingredient. A unit dose for parenteral administration will preferably contain 0.1 to 10mg of the active ingredient. Aerosol formulations are preferably arranged so that each metered dose or puff delivered from a pressurized aerosol contains 0.2mg to 2mg, of a compound of the invention, and, each dose administered via capsules and cartridges in an insufflator or an inhaler contains 0.2 to 20mg of a compound of the invention. The overall daily dose by inhalation will be within the range 0.4 to 80mg. Administration may be several times daily, for example from 2 to 8 times, giving for example 1, 2 or 3 doses each time. The compounds of the invention may, if desired, be administered in combination with one or more other therapeutic agents, such as anti nauseants. According to another aspect of the invention, compounds of general formula I and physiologically acceptable salts or solvates or physiologically acceptable equivalents thereof may be prepared by the general methods outlined hereinafter. According to a first general process A , a compound of general formula I or a physiologically acceptable salt or solvate or a physiologically acceptable equivalent thereof may be prepared by reacting a compound of general formula II wherein R¹ is as defined previously and Y represents a reactive substituent or a protected derivative thereof with an imidazole of general formula III wherein R², R³ and R⁴ are as defined previously or a salt thereof. Examples of compounds of formula II employed as starting materials in the process A include compounds wherein Y represents a group selected from an alkenyl group CH₂ or a group of formula CH₂Z where Z represents a readily displaceable atom or group such as a halogen atom, e.g. chlorine or bromine an acyloxy group such as acetoxy, trifluoromethanesulphonyloxy, When Y represents the group CH₂, the process may conveniently be carried out in a suitable solvent, examples of which include water esters, e.g. ethyl acetate ketones, e.g. acetone or methylisobutylketone amides, e.g. dimethylformamide alcohols, e.g. ethanol and ethers e.g. dioxan or tetrahydrofuran or mixtures thereof. The process may be effected at a temperature of, for example, 20 to 100 C. When Y represents the group CH₂Z, where Z is a halogen atom or an acyloxy group, the process may conveniently be carried out in a suitable solvent such as an amide, e.g. dimethylformamide an alcohol, e.g. methanol or industrial methylated spirit or a haloalkane, e.g. dichloromethane, and at a temperature of from 10 to 150 C, e.g. 20 to 100 C. The reaction of a compound of formula II where Y represents the group CH₂Z where Z is the group N R⁵R⁶R⁷X The reaction involving a compound of formula II where Y represents the group CH₂Z, where Z is the group NR⁵R⁶, may conveniently be carried out in a suitable solvent such as water or an alcohol, e.g. methanol, or mixtures thereof, and at a temperature of from 20 to 150 C. According to another general process B a compound of formula I may be prepared by oxidising a compound of formula IV The oxidation process may be effected using conventional methods and the reagents and reaction conditions should be chosen such that they do not cause oxidation of the indole group. Thus, the oxidation process is preferably effected using a mild oxidising agent. When oxidising a compound of formula IV in which A represents a hydrogen atom, suitable oxidising agents include quinones in the presence of water, e.g. 2,3 dichloro 5,6 dicyano ,1,4 benzoquinone or 2,3,5,6 tetrachloro 1,4 benzoquinone selenium dioxide a cerium IV oxidising reagent, such as ceric ammonium nitrate or a chromium VI oxidising agent, e.g. a solution of chromic acid in acetone for example Jones reagent or chromium trioxide in pyridine. When oxidising a compound of formula IV in which A represents a hydroxyl group, suitable oxidising agents include quinones in the presence of water, e.g. 2,3 dichloro 5,6 dicyano 1,4 benzoquinone or 2,3,5,6 tetrachloro 1,4 benzoquinone ketones, e.g. acetone, methylethylketone or cyclohexanone, in the presence of a base e.g. aluminium t butoxide a chromium VI oxidising agent, e.g. a solution of chromic acid in acetone for example Jones reagent or chromium trioxide in pyridine an N halosuccinimide, e.g. N chlorosuccinimide or N bromosuccinimide a dialkylsulphoxide e.g. dimethylsulphoxide, in the presence of an activating agent such as N,N dicyclohexylcarbodiimide or an acyl halide, e.g. oxalyl chloride or tosyl chloride pyridine sulphur trioxide complex or a dehydrogenation catalyst such as copper chromite, zinc oxide, copper or silver. Suitable solvents may be selected from ketones, e.g. acetone or butanone ethers e.g. tetrahydrofuran or dioxan amides, e.g. dimethylformamide alcohols, e.g. methanol hydrocarbons, e.g. benzene or toluene halogenated hydrocarbons, e.g. dichloromethane and water or mixtures thereof. The process is conveniently effected at a temperature of 70 to 50 C. It will be understood that the choice of oxidising agent will affect the preferred reaction temperature. According to another general process C a compound of general formula I , may be prepared by alkylating a compound of general formula V wherein R², R³ and R⁴ are as defined previously or a salt or protected derivative thereof. The alkylation reaction may be effected using the appropriate alkylating agent of formula R¹X The alkylation reaction is conveniently carried out in an inert organic solvent such as an amide, e.g. dimethylformamide an ether, e.g. tetrahydrofuran or an aromatic hydrocarbon, e.g. toluene, preferably in the presence of a base. Suitable bases include, for example, alkali metal hydrides such as sodium hydride, alkali metal amides such as sodium amide, alkali metal carbonates such as sodium carbonate or an alkali metal alkoxide such as sodium or potassium methoxide, ethoxide or t butoxide. The reaction may conveniently be effected at a temperature in the range 20 to 100 C, preferably 0 to 50 C. According to a further general process D , a compound of general formula I wherein R¹ represents a C₃ ₇ cycloalkyl C₁ ₄ alkyl group may be prepared by hydrogenating a compound of general formula I wherein R¹ represents a C₃ ₇ cycloalkenyl C₁ ₄ alkyl group and or one of R², R³ and R⁴ represents an alkenyl group, and each of the other groups are as defined previously, or a salt or a protected derivative thereof. The hydrogenation may be effected using conventional procedures, for example by using hydrogen in the presence of a noble metal catalyst e.g. palladium, Raney nickel, platinum, platinum oxide or rhodium. The catalyst may be supported on, for example, charcoal or a homogeneous catalyst such as tris triphenylphosphine rhodium chloride may be used. The hydrogenation will generally be effected in a solvent such as an alcohol, e.g. ethanol an amide, e.g. dimethylformamide an ether, e.g. dioxan or an ester, e.g. ethyl acetate, and at a temperature in the range 20 to 100 C, preferably 0 to 50 C. It should be appreciated that in some of the above transformations it may be necessary or desirable to protect any sensitive groups in the compound to avoid undesirable side reactions. The protecting groups used in the preparation of compounds of formula I are desirably groups which may be readily split off at a suitable stage in the reaction sequence, conveniently at the last stage. For example, during any of the reaction sequences described above, it may be necessary to protect the keto group, for example, as a ketal or a thioketal. Compounds of general formula I may thus be prepared according to another general process E , which comprises removal of any protecting groups from a protected form of a compound of formula I . Deprotection may be effected using conventional techniques such as those described in Protective Groups in Organic Chemistry Ed.J.F.W McOmie Plenum Press, 1973 . Thus, a ketal such as an alkyleneketal group may be removed by treatment with a mineral acid such as hydrochloric acid. The thioketal group may be cleaved by treatment with a mercuric salt, e.g. mercuric chloride, in a suitable solvent, such as ethanol. The compounds of formula I may be converted into their physiologically acceptable salts according to conventional methods. Thus, for example, the free base of general formula I may be treated with an appropriate acid, preferably with an equivalent amount in a suitable solvent e.g. aqueous ethanol . Physiologically acceptable equivalents of a compound of formula I may be prepared according to conventional methods. Individual enantiomers of the compounds of the invention may be obtained by resolution of a mixture of enantiomers e.g a racemic mixture using conventional means, such as an optically active resolving acid see for example Stereochemistry of Carbon Compounds by E.L.Eliel McGraw Hill 1962 and Tables of Resolving Agents by S. H. Wilen. Examples of optically active resolving acids that may be used to form salts with the racemic compounds include the R and S forms of organic carboxylic and sulphonic acids such as tartaric acid, di The methods indicated above for preparing the compounds of the invention can be used as the last main step in the preparative sequence. The same general methods can be used for the introduction of the desired groups at an intermediate stage in the stepwise formation of the required compound, and it will be appreciated that these general methods can be combined in different ways in such multi stage processes. The sequence of the reactions in multi stage processes should of course be chosen so that the reaction conditions used do not affect groups in the molecule which are desired in the final product. The starting materials of formula II wherein Y represents the group CH₂ may be prepared from compounds of formula II where Y represents the group CH₂N R⁵R⁶R⁷X by reaction with a base in a suitable solvent. Examples of bases include alkali metal hydroxides, e.g. potassium hydroxide or alkali metal carbonates or hydrogen carbonates e.g. sodium hydrogen carbonate. The quaternary salts may be formed from the corresponding tertiary amine by reaction with an alkylating agent such as methyl iodide or dimethyl sulphate, if preferred in a suitable solvent, e.g. dimethylformamide. The tertiary amine may be prepared by reaction of a tetrahydrocarbazolone of general formula VI with formaldehyde and the corresponding secondary amine, if desired in a suitable solvent such as an alcohol, e.g. ethanol. Compounds of general formula VI may be prepared for example, by the method described by H. Iida The starting materials of general formula II where Y represents CH₂Z where Z is a halogen atom or an acyloxy group may be prepared from the corresponding hydroxymethyl derivative of general formula VII which may be obtained by reacting the tetrahydrocarbazolone of general formula VI with formaldehyde, preferably in a suitable solvent such as an alcohol, e.g. ethanol, and preferably in the presence of a base. Thus, the compounds where Z is a halogen atom may be obtained by reacting a compound of formula VII with a halogenating agent such as a phosphorus trihalide, e.g. phosphorus trichloride. The compounds where Z is an acyloxy group may be prepared by reacting a compound of formula VII with an appropriate acylating agent such as an anhydride or a sulphonyl halide such as sulphonyl chloride. Compounds of formula II where Y represents CH₂Z where Z is a halogen atom may also be prepared by reacting a compound of formula II where Y represents the group CH₂ with the appropriate hydrogen halide, e.g. hydrogen chloride, conveniently in a suitable solvent such as an ether, e.g. diethyl ether. Compounds of general formula IV may be prepared by reacting a compound of formula VIII wherein R¹ and A are as defined previously and Z¹ is a readily displaceable atom or group such as a halogen atom, an acyloxy group or the group NR⁵R⁶R⁷X as previously defined for Z¹ with an imidazole of formula III according to the method of process A described herein. Compounds of formula VIII may be prepared by reducing compounds of formula II using for example lithium aluminium hydride or sodium borohydride. Compounds of formula VIII wherein A represents a hydrogen atom may also be prepared by reacting a compound of formula VIII wherein A represents a hydroxyl group with a tosyl halide e.g. tosyl chloride and then reducing the resulting tosylate with lithium aluminium hydride. Compounds of formula IV are novel compounds, and as such provide a further feature of the invention. A solution of 3 dimethylamino methyl 1,2,3,9 tetrahydro 4 A suspension of the product from Preparation 1 6.6g and 2 methyl imidazole 17.0g in dry dimethylformamide 75mℓ was stirred at 100 under nitrogen for 17.25h then cooled in ice to deposit a solid. This material was purified by washing successively with dimethylformamide 2x7mℓ and dry ether 3x15mℓ followed by column chromatography A to give the Sodium hydride 80 disp. in oil 0.075g was added to a solution of the product from Preparation 2 0.7g in dimethylformamide 10mℓ and stirred for 15 min. Bromomethyl cyclopropane 0.33g was added and the solution maintained at 40 for 4h. before partitioning between aqueous sodium carbonate 2N, 100mℓ and ethyl acetate 2x50mℓ . The combined organic extracts were washed with water 50mℓ , dried and evaporated Sodium hydride 80 disp. in oil, 0.075g was added to a solution of the product from Preparation 2 0.7g in dimethylformamide 10mℓ and stirred for 15 min. Propargyl bromide 0.44g was added and the solution maintained at 40 for 5h before partitioning between aqueous sodium carbonate 2N, 100mℓ and ethyl acetate 2 x 50mℓ . The combined organic layers were washed with water 2 x 50mℓ , dried and evaporated A solution of 1,2,3,9 tetrahydro 3 2 methyl 1 N.m.r. δ DMSO includes 1.7 2.2 8H,m,cyclobutane and H 2 ax 2.65 3H,s,Ar C The following compounds were prepared according to the method of Example 3, using the reaction conditions given in Table 1 hereinafter. m.p. 107 108 . N.m.r. δ DMSO includes 1.2 2.45 11H,m,cyclopentane and H 2 2.65 3H,s,Ar C m.p. 115 116 . m.p. 119 120.5 . N.m.r. δ CDCl₃ includes 0.95 1.85 13H, cyclopentane and N.m.r. δ CDCl₃ includes 1.15 1.75 12H,m,cycloheptane C The following examples illustrate pharmaceutical formulations according to the invention. Tablets may be prepared by the normal methods such as direct compression or wet granulation. The tablets may be film coated with suitable film forming materials, such as hydroxypropyl methylcellulose, using standard techniques. Alternatively the tablets may be sugar coated. The active ingredient is passed through a 60 mesh sieve, blended with the lactose, croscarmellose sodium and magnesium stearate. The resultant mix is compressed into tablets using 5.5mm diameter punches. Tablets of other strengths may be prepared by altering the ratio of active ingredient to lactose or the compression weight and using punches to suit. Sodium chloride may be added to adjust the tonicity of the solution and the pH may be adjusted, using acid or alkali, to that of optimum stability and or to facilitate solution of the active ingredient. Alternatively suitable buffer salts may be used. The solution is prepared, clarified and filled into appropriate size ampoules sealed by fusion of the glass. The injection is sterilised by heating in an autoclave using one of the acceptable cycles. Alternatively the solution may be sterilised by filtration and filled into sterile ampoules under aseptic conditions. The solution may be packed under an inert atmosphere of nitrogen or other suitable gas.