# Toy vehicle.

## Abstract
A toy comprises a drum 24 which is adapted to be fitted with a rubber band and the drum 24 is attached to a device which can be caused to move by winding up and releasing the rubber band.

## Claims
1. A toy comprising a drum 24 rotatably mounted on a support 18,19,20 said drum having means 25,26 to receive a rubber band whereby the band can be wound up by rotating the drum, and released to cause the drum to travel along the ground, and a cart 10 or other device attached to said support.

## Description
This invention relates to toys and its object is to provide a wind up movable toy which can be produced very cheaply. According to the invention a drum is adapted to be fitted with a rubber band and the drum is attached to a device which can be caused to move by winding up and releasing the rubber band. In a constructional form of the invention the drum is mounted on axle means and has an axial hole at one end and two holes at the other end spaced apart from each other so that a rubber band passing through all three holes can be wound up so as then to rotate the drum around its axis. The device may be a toy car, toy boat, or other movable device. The invention will be further described by way of example with reference to the accompanying diagrammatic drawings wherein A cart 10 is a plastics moulding and is provided at one end with an axle 11 and two wheels 12,13. Near to the other end of the cart and projecting downwardly from the bottom thereof is a pin 16, the top end of which is turned over so that it cannot fall out of the bottom of the cart but it can rotate therein. Fixed to the pin 16 is a cross bar 18 which carries two forwardly projecting shafts 19, 20. Near to the front ends of the shafts they carry inwardly projecting axle pins 22, 23. A drum 25 is rotatably mounted on the axle pins 22, 23. The drum 25 is provided with holes at its ends to receive the pins 22, 23 and with two other holes 25, 26 at one end that are spaced apart on a diameter of that end. A rubber band 27 passes through the holes 25, 26 and through the hole at 23 and is knotted around the shaft 20. The barrel can be rotated thereby winding up the rubber band whereupon the toy can be placed on the floor and the barrel will rotate so as to pull the cart along.