# AN APPARATUS AND A METHOD FOR CONTROLLING WIPER

## Abstract
The present invention relates to an apparatus and a meth od for controlling a wiper 85 which smoothly starts to move the wiper 85 at different wiping speeds from an initial position 88 thereof in accordance with the detected amount of rain. The apparatus for controlling wiper 85 includes the sensor 100 , a first comparator 200 , an actuator 300 , a second comparator 400 , a memory 600 and a changing device 700 . The sensor 100 detects amount of rain. The first comparator 200 compares the amount of rain detected by the sensor 100 , with a small predetermined amount of drops of water. When the first comparator 200 de termines the detected amount of rain is equal to or greater than the small predetermined amount of drops of water, the first comparator 200 outputs a first actuating signal. The actuator 300 starts to move the wiper 85 in accord ance with receipt of the first actuating signal outputted from the first comparator 200 . When the actuator 300 receives the first actuating signal the actuator 300 starts to move the wiper 85 at a low wiping speed and the actuator 300 out puts a pulse signal. The second comparator 400 compares the detected amount of rain with a large predetermined amount of drops of water. When the second comparator 400 determines the de tected amount of rain is equal to or greater than the large amount of drops of water, the second comparator 400 out puts a second actuating signal. The memory 600 memorizes the second actuating signal outputted from the second comparator 400 and the memory 600 outputs the memorized signal. The changing device 700 for changing the wiping speed of the wiper 85 at the time when the wiper 85 starts to move from the initial position 88 in accordance with the memorized second actuating signal outputted from the memory 600 at the time when the wiper 85 starts to move from the initial po sition 88 , the changing device 700 changes the low wiping speed of the wiper 85 to the high wiping speed or the high wiping speed of the wiper 85 to the low wiping speed.