# MICROTUBE STRIP MTS HEAT EXCHANGER

## Abstract
A heat exchanger module includes a plurality of rows of metallic microtubes headed together in parallel by means of a substantially rectangular microtube strip MTS header at each end, said microtubes having outside diameter less than 3mm, with a cap, containing at least one fluid manifold connection, joined to each MTS header so as to form an internal tube side region. A plurality of such modules may be manifolded together in parallel to form a heat exchanger block.

## Claims
1. A heat exchanger module which includes a plurality of rows of metallic microtubes headed together in parallel by means of a substantially rectangular microtube strip MTS header at each end, said microtubes having outside diameter less than 3mm, with a cap, containing at least one fluid manifold connection, joined to each MTS header so as to form an internal tube side region, said heat exchanger module hereinafter referred to as an MTS module.

## Description
The field of this invention is heat exchangers, and more particularly, counterflow, modular, shell and tube type exchangers for single phase fluids with no heat transfer augmentation means. The result of four decades of industrial and commercial interest in heat exchangers has been a proliferation of specialized devices and manufacturing techniques that offer some advantages in special applications. The present invention is based on a radical departure from conventional heat exchanger design guidelines in several distinct areas. As a result, the design differs in a number of ways, but the most significant innovative feature is the most subtle and is not apparent without a detailed theoretical explanation. This most important feature is its size. This change represents such radical departures from conventional practice in typical Nusselt and Reynolds numbers as to make reference to prior art of limited value. Nonetheless, for reference value and completeness, a brief synopsis of the prior art is presented by reference to various U.S. Patents. Numerous examples of modular, counter flow shell and tube exchangers can be found in the patent literature, one of the earlier examples being Rossi s bi directional flow design, 2,839,276, with its advantages of reduced thermal stresses. A more typical recent design is that of Baumgaertner et al, 4,221,262, which offers some construction advantages over earlier designs due to the reduced complexity of its basic modules. Quite atypical and impractical but of relevance on the account of general system appearance is Giardina s patent 4,253,516 with its huge box car sized modules. Jabsen et al in patent 4,289,196 and Culver in patent 4,098,329 employ unique heading and manifolding systems in attempts to achieve higher power densities in modular systems. Cunningham et al give attention to hot corrosive problems in patent 2,907,644. Lustenader recognizes the problem of axial conduction losses in patent 3,444,924, a problem obviously not understood by most heat exchanger design engineers. Corbitt et al address the problem of vortex induced resonances in cross flow exchangers, 2,655,346, and solves it via strategic positioning of baffles. Scheidl uses a tube support grid to solve these problems in patent 3,941,188. Bay, 2,537,024, and Malewicz, 3,452,814, give several examples of heat flow augmentation, which is easily shown to be of negative value in a gas gas heat exchanger optimized according to the present invention. Various well known joining techniques include Cottone and Sapersteine s use of special braze alloys, 4,274,483, Olsson and Wilson s cold pressure welding, 4,237,971, Hardwick s explosive welding, 3,717,925, Brif and Brif s expanded tubes, 4,239,713, and the related technique of Yoshitomi et al, 4,142,581. More closely related to the diffusion technique of the present invention is the press fit method of Nonnenmann et al, 4,159,741, and the compression method of Takayasu, 3,922,768. However, these techniques as described fall short of producing a high integrity metallurgical bond. Frei s patent 4,295,522, employing glass tubes and silicone casting resins, shows a striking resemblence from a non scaled perspective between his basic tube assembly modules and the present invention. Furthermore, the tube sizes employed therein also show progressive design traits, being about 6mm in diameter rather than the customary 1.5cm to 2.5cm employed in all other above referenced patents. However, Frei s design, aside from temperature and pressure limitations imposed by the choice of materials, suffers from the inefficiencies inherent in a cross flow design, as necessitated by his manifolding scheme. The use of small diameter tubes O.D. less than about 3mm has been predominately limited to two phase cross flow systems. Early examples may be found in aircraft oil coolers such as that by Anderson, patent 2,449,922, and the later art. The only apparent application involving the use of tubes under 1mm O.D. is that of Christen et al, 4,098,852, which employs osmotic or ultrafiltering polymeric tubes and vaporizing liquids. Christen s patent also utilizes the shortest tubes found in the prior art in counterflow exchangers, such length being only about 0.6m, compared to the more typical length of about 5m. Roma s patent 4,030,540 is cited as a typical example of prior art design guidelines that often resulted in such unsound objectives as attempting to maximize tube length, whereas the correct objective is always to minimize tube length while satisfying several additional criteria. Some useful related theoretical background materials may be found in two of my earlier patents, although these inventions are quite remote from the present invention patent 4,321,962 describes a solar energy heat exchanger and storage system and patent 4,456,882 describes a high speed turbine driven air bearing supported sample spinner. The present invention, the microtube strip MTS counterflow heat exchanger, in the preferred embodiment consists of a number of small modules connected in parallel. Each module typically contains seven rows of one hundred tubes, each of 0.8mm outside diameter and 0.16m length. The tubes are metallurgically bonded to rectangular header tube strips at each end. Caps suitable for manifolding are welded over the ends. Means are provided to cause the shell side fluid to flow in counterflow fashion over substantially all of the tube length, and suitable manifolds are provided to connect the modules in parallel. Power capacity per unit volume per unit temperature difference of the MTS exchanger exceeds that of prior art typical designs by a factor of ten to 1000. Power capacity per unit cost per unit temperature difference of the MTS exchanger may exceed that of prior art designs by a factor as large as 10 in some cases. Flow conditions in the microtubes are fully laminar and extremely subsonic. Consider first, for example, the tube bundle heat exchanger with highly turbulent gas flowing through the tubes, which are bathed in a constant temperature fluid. The conventional approach is to write the heat transfer coefficient in terms of the dimensionless Nusselt number, Now consider the case of a tube type counterflow laminar flow heat exchanger with center to center tube spacing equal to 1.4 times the outside diameter of the tubes and twice the inside diameter. Further assume that the thermal conductivity of the tube material is much greater than the thermal conductivity of the fluids. For this case, it can be shown that the From the above discussion it appears that there is little utility in evaluating a heat exchanger in terms of a heat exchange coefficient of dimensions For simplicity, consider the case of laminar fluid flow through long, smooth tubes. This condition exists for Reynolds numbers, In addition to the pumping power loss, there is another internal loss mechanism present in counterflow exchangers which may limit the thermodynamic efficiency the axial thermal conduction power of the tube metal, Accounting for the losses, the available heat exchange power, This equation depends only on three geometric variables, Alternatively one may choose as objective function Reducing the tubing diameter by a factor of 10 requires the length to be reduced by a factor ranging from 30 to 100 while the number of tubes is increased by a similar factor in order to maintain the same heat exchange power and pumping power loss. However, the total volume of the heat exchanger is likewise reduced. Furthermore, the maximum internal pressure rating of the heat exchanger will probably be increased due to an increase in the relative wall thickness. To facilitate rapid assembly of large numbers of small tubes, it is necessary to depart from the disc shaped tube header sheet normally used in counterflow exchangers and instead use a rectangular tube header sheet or strip. Furthermore, to minimize tube flexing and to reduce support requirements, it is also desirable to keep the tube length relatively short. This will also ensure that the buckling strength of the tubes is large enough to permit pressing them into the tube strip. Moreover, it will raise the transverse acoustic resonance modes of the tubes thereby making it more difficult to excite such resonances by turbulence. The maximum practical tube length for high modulus, high strength alloys such as strain hardened stainless steel or precipitation hardened superalloys is about 300 times the outside diameter of the tubes, while the maximum practical length for copper or aluminum tubes is about half that amount. There are several additional reasons for preferring stainless steel or superalloys over the more common heat exchanger metals 1 They have very low thermal conductivity which may make them easier to laser weld, but most importantly reduces the internal axial conduction loss mechanism, The extremely small size of the tubes makes almost all types of conventional welding methods impractical, and the extremely large number of tubes eliminates most types of individual tube welding techniques, probably including automated electron beam and laser techniques because of process control problems arising from thermal expansion during the welding operations. Two viable options for the tube to strip welds are fluxless brazing and diffusion welding. A wide variety of conventional welding techniques are suitable for the rest of the welds. In the fluxless brazing technique, the braze metal is plated onto the inside of the holes and onto the outside of the tubes prior to assembly. After assembly, the complete module is heated in vacuum or inert atmosphere to the liquidus temperature of the braze metal. This method is not suited for very high temperature exchangers. Diffusion welding can be accomplished if the tube diameter and hole size can be held to very tight tolerances. The use of hardened tubes and annealed tube strips then makes it possible to press the tubes into slightly undersized holes. With proper attention to surface quality and a minimum of 0.3 interference press fit, a strong metallurgical bond can be formed simply by heating the assembly to about 0.8 times the absolute melting temperature K . This method is suitable for the highest temperatures and all alloys. The basic unit in the MTS heat exchanger is the MTS sub assembly as illustrated in Fig.1. It consists of typically eight rows of microtubes 1 with typically 40 to 200 microtubes in each row. The microtubes are diffusion welded into precision MTS header strips 2 at each end. The diffusion welding is accomplished by using ultra precision, diamond die reduced, laser welded hard drawn tubing for the microtubes, and precisely machining the holes in the annealed header strip to a size at least 0.3 smaller but not more than 5 smaller than the tubing outside diameter. A combination of techniques may be required to produce the precision holes in the header strips, including feinblanking, electrochemical machining, and reaming. The diffusion welds are accomplished by 1 insuring that the tubes and holes have thoroughly cleaned, oxide free surfaces prior to assembly, 2 maintaining a minimum of 0.3 interference press fit, 3 heating the sub assembly in an inert atmosphere or vacuum to a temperature of approximately 80 of the absolute melting temperature of the tube or header strip alloy, whichever is lower. Fig 2 illustrates the recommended HCP hexagonal close pack hole pattern for the MTS header strip 2. The distance between rows is equal to 0.866 times the distance between tube centers, TC, which is generally about 1.3 to 2.8 times the 0.D. of the sample tubes 1. Fig 3 illustrates the basic counterflow MTS module. It includes a semi cylindrical cap 3 welded to each header strip. Care is taken to assure that the header strip 2 is no wider than is necessary to accomodate the microtubes 1 and the relatively thin walled cap 3 so that the MTS modules may be mounted closely in parallel. Tube side manifold ports 4 are provided on each cap 3. A cage 5 closely surrounds the MTS sub assembly, except near each header strip, forcing shell side fluid 6 to enter around the periphery of the MTS sub assembly near one end and to exit in like fashion at the other end. Tube side fluid 7 enters the tube side manifold ports 4 at the end at which the shell side fluid exits, and it exits in like manner at the opposite end. In certain applications, extremely high tube side pressures, perhaps combined with very high temperatures, may require additional support of the flat header strip 2, to prevent bowing of this surface. This additional support may be provided as shown in Fig 4 by diffusion welding a reinforcement plate 8 similar to the header strip 2 a short distance from it. Alternatively, the required support may be provided by the microtubes 1 if they are supported in such a way to prevent their buckling. This may be accomplished by bonding, preferably by projection welding, stiffening wires 9 crosswise between the rows of microtubes 1. By staggering or offsetting the location of adjacent stiffening wires 9, the effect on fluid flow is generally made negligible. Fig 5 illustrates the parallel manifolding of several MTS modules to form an MTS block. Individual fluid ports 4 are connected to a tube side manifold 10 at each end. The manifold cages 11 in cooperation with the MTS module cages 5 form the shell side sealed region. Tube side fluid may enter at tube side manifold port 12 while shell side fluid may exit at manifold cage port 13. The MTS modules are supported by the headers, with adequate clearance space between the adjacent caps to permit the required shell side flow 6 between caps with acceptable pressure drop. Typical MTS blocks may include four to fifteen MTS modules in parallel, and typical high power installations may include hundreds of such MTS blocks further manifolding in parallel. Fig 6 depicts an MTS block mounted inside a pressure vessel 14 forming an MTS tank for applications requiring high shell side pressures. Pressure equalizing vents 15 are required to equalize mean static pressure components on the flat surface of the MTS cages 5 and manifold cages 11. The dynamic pressure components arising from the shell side fluid pressure drop through the MTS block must be kept relatively small to prevent excessive deflection of the flat surfaces. Expansion joints 16 are required at one end to relieve axial thermal stresses. Suitable sealing flanges 17 and 18 are provided to permit convenient assembly of the containment vessel 14 and adequate sealing around the ports 12 and 13. Suitable radial support for the MTS block within the vessel is required at the end which includes the expansion joints 16. Although this invention has been described herein with reference to specific embodiments, it will be recognised that changes and modifications may be made without departing from the spirit of the present invention. All such modifications and changes are intended to be included within the scope of the following claims.