# Shelf stable multi textured cookies.

## Abstract
Cookies having a shelf stable plurality of textures are prepared from a composite dough comprising a filler cookie dough laminated to a casing cookie dough. The casing dough comprises a humectant in an amount greater than 25 by weight, based upon the sugar solids content of the casing dough. The filler dough comprises a humectant for imparting softness to the inner portion of the cookie. The water content of the filler dough is greater than the water content of the casing dough to facilitate control over the moisture content of the cookie. Cookies baked from dough pieces having a filler dough enrobed by a casing dough retain a firm and tender textured crumb structure on the outside and a soft textured crumb structure on the inside for extended times in proper packaging when the dough pieces are baked to an end point moisture content of at least about 6 by weight, based upon the weight of the cookie.

## Claims
WHAT IS CLAIMED IS 1. A baked, soft cookie comprising a a first portion having a soft and moist textured crumb structure baked from a cookie dough comprising flour, shortening or fat, . and a humectant for imparting softness to the first portion, b a second soft crumb portion having a firmer textured crumb structure than said first portion and said second portion being laminated to said first portion, wherein said second portion is baked from a cookie dough comprising sucrose, flour, shortening or fat, and a humectant selected from the group consisting of sugar and non sugar humectants and mixtures thereof, the sucrose content of the dough being less than 75 by weight based upon the total amount of sucrose plus humectant content present in said second dough portion. 2. A cookie as claimed in claim 1 wherein the humectant of said first portion and,. said second portion comprises at least one sugar. 3. A. cookie as claimed in claim 2 wherein the humectant of said first portion comprises a high fructose corn syrup, the solids content of the high fructose corn syrup being at least about 80 percent by weight fructose. 4. A cookie as claimed in claim 3 wherein the solids content of the high fructose corn Syrup is from about 68 by weight to about 82 by weight, based upon the weight of the high fructose corn syrup. 5. A cookie as claimed in claim 4 wherein the dough baked to said second portion has a total lactose and or. dextrose content, on a sugar solids basis, of about,30 to about 60 by weight. 6. A cookie as claimed in claim 4 wherein the water activity of the cookie is less than about 0.65. and the water content of the cookie is at least 6 by weight. 7. A cookie as chimed in claim 1 wherein the humectant of said first portion comprises a firm sucrose based gel formed from sucrose, water, sodium alginate, and an edible calcium ion source. 8. A cookie as claimed in claim 1 wherein the humectant of said first portion comprises a firm high fructose corn syrup based gel formed from a mixture comprising high fructose corn syrup, sodium alginate, and an edible calcium ion source. 9. A cookie as claimed in claim 2 which is a chocolate chip cookie. 10. A cookie as claimed in claim 9 wherein the moisture content of the cookie is from about 7 to about 8.5 by weight of the cookie. 11. A cookie as claimed in claim 1 wherein the humectant of said first portion comprises a high fructose corn syrup, and said second portion enrobes said first portion. 12. A cookie as claimed in claim 11 wherein the lactose content of said dough bakeable to said second portion is greater than 25 by weight, based upon the total sugar solids content of the dough bakeable to said second portion. 13. A cookie as claimed in claim 11 wherein the dextrose content of said dough bakeable to said second portion is greater than 25 by weight, based upon the total sugar solids content of the dough bakeable to said second portion. 14. A cookie as claimed in claim 11 wherein the total dextrose and lactose content of said dough bakeable to said second portion is greater than 25 by weight, based upon the total sugar solids content of the dough bakeable to said second portion. 15. A cookie dough composition for producing soft cookies having a shelfstable plurality of textures comprising a a filler cookie dough bakeable to a soft and moist cookie crumb texture comprising flour, shortening or fat, and a humectant for imparting softness to the baked dough, b a casing dough bakeable to a firmer crumb texture than said filler dough and being laminated to said filler dough, said casing dough comprising flour, shortening or fat, and a humectant selected from the group consisting of sugar and non sugar humectants, the sucrose content of the casing dough being less than 75 by weight, based upon the total sucrose plus humectant content of the casing dough. 16. A cookie dough composition as claimed in claim 15 wherein said humectant of said filler dough comprises a high fructose corn. syrup having a solids content of from about 68X by weight to about 82 by weight, based upon the weight of the high fructose corn syrup. 17. A cookie dough composition as claimed in claim 16 wherein the fructose content of the high fructose corn syrup is atleast about 80 by weight, based upon the weight of said sugar solids content. 18. A cookie dough composition as claimed in claim 16 wherein said filler dough is enrobed within said casing dough. 19. A cookie dough composition as claimed in claim 18 wherein the cookie iS a chocolate chip cookie and the moisture content of the cookie is from about 7 to about 8.5 by weight, based upon the weight of the cookie. 20. A cookie dough composition as claimed in claim 19 wherein the weight ratio of said filler dough to said casing dough ranges from about 0.80 to about 1.2, and the moisture content of the filler dough is at least about 15 percent by weight more than the moisture content of the casing dough. 21. A cookie dough composition as claimed in claim 16 wherein the lactose content of said casing dough is greater than 25 by weight, based upon the total sugar solids content of the casing dough. 22. A cookie dough composition as claimed in claim 21 wherein said filler cookie dough comprises a pregelatinized starch. 23. A cookie dough composition as claimed in claim 21 wherein the. cookie is a chocolate chip cookie. 24. A cookie dough composition as claimed in claim 16 wherein the humectant of said casing dough comprises a mixture of dextrose and lactose. 25. A cookie dough composition as claimed in claim 16 wherein the humectant of said casing dough comprises dextrose. 26. A cookie dough composition as claimed in claim 24 wherein the cookie is a chocolate chip cookie. 27. A cookie dough composition as claimed in claim 23 wherein the casing dough has, a lactose content of from about 30 to about 60i by weight, based upon the total sugar solids content of the casing dough. 28. A cookie dough composition as claimed in claim 24 wherein the total amount of the dextrose and lactose is from about 30 to about 60 by weight, based upon the total sugar solids content of the casing dough. 29. A cookie dough composition as claimed in claim 15 wherein the humectant of said casing dough comprises a firm edible sucrose based gel or high fructose corn syrup based gel. 30. A cookie having a firm and tender exterior and soft interior, the dual texture being shelf stable for at least two months in proper packaging, obtained by baking the dough composition of claim 16. 31. A cookie as claimed in claim 30 which is a chocolate chip cookie. 32. A method for producing a soft cookie comprising a coextruding a filler cookie dough bakeable to a soft cookie crumb texture and a casing cookie dough bakeable to a soft but firmer cookie crumb texture than said baked fiiler, said filler dough comprising flour, shortening or fat, and a humectant for imparting softness to the baked filler dough, said casing dough comprising flour, shortening or fat, and a humectant selected from the group consisting of sugar and non sugar humectants, the sucrose content of the casing dough being less than 75 by weight, based upon the total content of sucrose plus humectant in the casing dough, b severing the coextrudate into pieces to enrobe the filler cookie dough, and c baking the pieces to obtain cookies having a moisture content of at least about 61 by weight, based upon the weight of the cookie, and a plurality or textures which Is shelf stable for, at least two months when the cookie is packaged in a closed container. 33. A method as claimed in claim 32 wherein the humectant of said casing dough comprises lactose. 34. A method as claimed in claim 32 wherein the weight ratio of said filler dough to said casing dough ranges from about 0.80 to about 1.2, and the moisture content of the filler dough is at least about 15 percent by weight more than the moisture content of the casing dough. 35. A method as claimed in claim 34 wherein the humectant of said casing dough comprises a mixture of lactose and dextrose. 36. A method as claimed in claim 35 wherein said humectant comprises a high fructose corn syrup having a solids content of from about 68 by weight to about 82 by weight, based upon the weight of the high fructose corn syrup. 37. A method as claimed in claim. 36 wherein the fructose content of the high fructose corn syrup is at least about 80 by weight, based upon the weight of said sugar solids content. 38. A method as claimed in claim 36 wherein the casing dough has a lactose and or dextrose content, on a sugar solids basis, of about 30 to about 60 by weight. 39. A method as claimed in claim 38 wherein the cookie is a chocolate chip cookie. 40. A chocolate chip cookie having a shelf stable plurality of textures comprising a a first portion having a soft textured crumb structure baked from a filler cookie dough, said dough comprising flour, shortening or fat, a humectant comprising high fructose corn syrup for imparting sortness to the first portion, b a second portion having a firm and tender textured crumb structure enrobing said first portion, said second portion being baked from a casing cookie dough comprising flour, shortening or fat, a humectant in a total amount which is greater than 25 by weight, based upon the total sugar solids content of the casing dough, and sucrose said cookie having a water content of at least 6 by weight and a water activity of less than or equal ,to 0.7. 41. A chocolate chip cookie as claimed, in claim,, wherein the humectant of said casing dough comprises lactose, dextrose and a corn syrup. 42. A chocolate chip cookie as claimed in claim 40 wherein the cookie has a water content or from about 7 to about 8.5 . 43. A chocolate chip cookie as claimed in claim 40 wherein the plurality of textures is shelf stable for at least about 6 months in proper packaging. 44. A cookie having a shelf stable plurality of textures comprising a a first portion having a soft textured crumb structure baked from a filler cookie dough, comprising flour, shortening or fat, and a humectant for imparting softness to the first portion, b a second portion having a firm and tender textured crumb structure laminated to said first portion, said second portion being baked from a cookie dough comprising flour, shortening or fat, and dextrose and or lactose, the sucrose content of the dough being less than 75 by weight, based upon the total sugar solids content of the casing dough. 45. A cookie as claimed in claim 44 wherein the total dextrose and lactose content of said dough bakeable to said second portion is greater than 25 by weight, based upon the total sugar solids content of the dough bakeable to said second portion. 46. A cookie dough composition for producing cookies having a shelf stable plurality of textures comprising a a filler, cookie dough bakeable to a soft texture comprising flour, shortening or fat, and a humectant for imparting softness to the baked dough, b a casing dough bakeable to a firm and tender texture laminated to said filler dough, said casing dough comprising flour, shortening or fat, and lactose and or dextrose, the sucrose content of the casing dough being less than 75 by weight, based upon the total sugar solids content of the casing dough. 47..A cookie dough composition as claimed in claim 46 wherein the total amount of the dextrose and lactose is from about 30 to about 60 by weight, based upon the total sugar solids content of the casing dough. 48. A method for producing a cookie having a shelf stable plurality of textures comprising a coextruding a filler cookie dough bakeable to a soft texture and a casing cookie dough bakeable to a firm and tender texture, said filler dough comprising flour, shortening or fat, and a humectant for imparting softness to the baked filler dough, said casing dough comprising flour, shortening or fat, lactose and or dextrose, the sucrose content of the casing dough being less than 75 by weight, based upon the total sugar solids content of the casing dough, b severing the coextrudate into pieces to enrobe the filler cookie dough, and c baking the pieces to obtain cookies having a moisture content of at least about 6 by weight, based upon the weight of the cookie, and a plurality of textures which is shelf stable for at least two months when the cookie is packaged in a closed container. 49. A method as claimed in claim 48 wherein the casing dough has a total lactose and dextrose content, on a sugar solids basis, of about 30 to about 60 by weight. 50. A method as claimed in claim 49 wherein the cookie as a chocolate chip cookie. 51. A .chocolate chip cookie having a shelf stable plurality of textures comprising a a first portion having a soft textured crumb structure baked from a filler cookie dough, said dough comprising flour, shortening or fat, a humectant comprising high fructose corn syrup for imparting softness to the first portion, b a second portion having a firm and tender textured crumb structure enrobing said first portion, said second portion being baked from a casing cookie dough comprising flour, shortening or fat, dextrose and or lactose in a total amount which is greater than 25 by weight, based upon the total sugar solids content of the casing dough, and sucrose, said cookie having a water content of at least 6 by weight and a water activity of less than or equal to 0.7.

## Description
SHELF STABLE MULTI TEXTURED COOKIES This Invention relates to cookies having a shelf stable plurality of textures. It also relates to processes and dough compositions for making the multi textured cookies. Cookies with a moisture content above about 6 by weight are usually soft but cohesive. To produce cookies.which retain enough moisture to b e classified as soft cdokies, numerous humectants have been used. Exemplary thereof are fructose, dextrose, invert sugar, high fructose corn syrup, corn syrup, glycerine, raisins, raisin pastes, etcetera. Without the use of such humectants, cookie doughs which contain sufficient water to compensate for volatilization during baking o do not exhibit sufficient cohesiveness for forming into pieces on conventional commercial scale cookie forming equipment, 2 exhibit raw flavor or color qualities, and 3 most importantly, lose their soft texture within Åa week or within a few days even when properly packaged in airtight packaging. Liquid humectants such as high fructose corn syrup, corn syrup, glycerin, sorbitol, and molasses are readily dispersed through a dough to provide a homogeneously soft texture in the cookies baked from the humectant containing dough. However, these liquid humectants increase the adherent properties or stickiness of cookie doughs. Sticking or adherence of the dough to rotary cutters, reciprocating cutters, cutter aprons, oven belts, and wire cutters place an, upper limit on their use in producing soft cookies on a commercial scale which have extended shelf stability. The present invention provides a cookie dough composition for producing a shelf stable cookie baked rrom a dough laminate of at least two doughs wherein each dough layer of the laminate has a different humectancy, as described in greater detail below. The type and amount of humectant in each dough layer of, the composition is used to control dough machineability and cookie sweetness, moistness and texture. At least one dough layer is bakeable to a firm and tender textured crumb structure and is nonadherent. The remaining one or more dough layers is bakeable to a moist, soft textured crumb structure.The use of, humectants having. different water holding capacities in each dough enables widening of the difference in water content between the different doughs at a given shelr stable water activity of the cookie. Sucrose may be used in an amount less than 75 by weight, based upon the total sugar solids content of the dough bakeable to the firm and tender texture. Other sugars, such as lactose and or dextrose may be used in a total amount greater than 25 by weight, typically from about 30 to about 40X by weight, up to about 60 by weight of the total weight of the sugars in the dough bakeable to a firm and tender texture. The dough bakeable to a moist soft texture, should have a greater water holding capacity, preferably based upon the use of fructose, or fructose and dextrose in an amount greater than 25 based on the total sugar content of that dough. Generally the amount of non sucrose sugars in the filling dough is at least as great as that in the casing dough, with a non sucrose sugar in the filling dough having a greater water binding capacity than that in the casing dough. Alternatively similar non sucrose sugars can be used in both doughs but with substantially greater amounts in the filler dough. The dough compositions of the present invention preferably comprise dough pieces having the dough bakeable to a moist, soft texture filler dough enrobed completely or partially within the dough bakeable to a firm and tender texture casing dough . The enrobing dough typically has a firm baked crumb texture than the, filler dough. While promotion of browning is generally desirable in the production of cookies, the levels of lactose and dextrose used in embodiments of the present invention to promote a firm and tender texture should not result in coloration of the cookie which is incompatible with the type of cookie. For example, a chocolate fudge cookie may undergo more browning than a sugar or butter cookie without adversely affecting its appearance. To provide the clean tasting sweetness of sucrose, to control the degree of browning upon baking, and to reduce the possibility of an allergic reaction to lactose, sucrose may be used in an amount less than 752 by weight, based upon the total sugar solids content of the casing dough. Other sugars may be employed with the sucrose to enhance or control sweetness in amounts which do not adversely affect the retention of a multiple texture over extended periods of time. Generally, the higher the relative sweetness and the higher the water holding capacity, the smaller is the amount which is used. Exemplary of sugars which may. be used in the casing in addition to, or in place of sucrose, are fructose, maltose, galactose, mixtures thereof, and the like. Suitable sources of fructose include invert syrup, honey, molasses, brown sugar, maple syrup, and the like.Typically, the amount of fructose may range from about 0 15 , based upon the total sugar solids content of the casing dough. The lactose and or dextrose or other low water holding capacity sugars may be used in a total amount greater than 25 by weight, typically from about 30 to about 40a by weight, up to about 60X by weight, based upon the total sugar solids content of the casing dough. The lactose and dextrose may be supplied in pure form or as a commercially available source of the sugar which is compatible with the desired texture, coloration, taste, and odor of the cookie. Pure forms of the sugar are preferred. Crystalline forms or aqueous solutions of the sugar may be used. Suitable sources of lactose include milk products, such as non fat dry milk which contains approximately 52 lactose, and whey which contains over 70 lactose.Lactose may be used in its alpha or beta form. The alpha isomer is commercially available as the monohydate. The beta form is anhydrous. The alpha form is produced by crystallization from solution below 93.50C. Beta lactose is crystallized from solution above 93.50C. When either form is dissolved in water, mutarotation occurs until equilibrium is established between the two isomers. Suitable commercially available sources of dextrose include the anhydrous crystalline form, the monohydrate crystalline form, and aqueous solutions of dextrose or glucose solids. Crystalline forms are preferred. The humectant used in the inner portion of the cookies should absorb and bind or hold water so as to impart a shelf stable softness to the inner portion of thecookies of the present invention. The binding should be such that the equilibrium rate of moisture loss from the baked product to the environment due to the presence of the. humectant is slowed to such a degree that a baked product containing the humectant, and having an initial moisture content of at least about 6 by weight, exclusive of inclusions 1 retains a soft and pliable texture in the portion baked from the filler dough, 2 retains a firm and tender texture in the portion baked from the casing dough, and 3 the retention of the multiple texture is for at least about two months, and preferably for at least about 6 12 months when the cookie is stored in a closed container. Humectant sugars may be employed alone or in combination with other sugars in the filler cookie dough to impart a soft texture to the center of the multi textured cookie. Suitable humectant sugars include fructose, corn syrups, invert syrups, high fructose corn syrups, honey, molasses, as well as mixtures of one or more of the foregoing humectants. For example, a suitable humectant sugar composition for use in the.filler cookie dough may comprise about 0 to 85 percent sucrose, with the balance of the sugar being comprised of fructose employed in the form of crystallized sugar.Alternatively, the balance of the sugar may be provided by the sugar solids content of a corn syrup, honey or a high fructose corn syrup, or another humectant sugar. Commercially available high fructose corn syrups are the preferred humectants. They are low in cost, are highly humectant, provide a pleasant sweet taste, and are readily commercially available. They are prepared by the enzymatic isomerization of dextrose containing corn syrups, and typically possess a sugar solids component of about 40 percent to about 100 percent by weight fructose, with the balance of the non fructose sugar solids being primarily dextrose plus minor amounts of other monosaccharides. The sugar solids content of commercially available high fructose corn syrups typically ranges from about 70 percent to about 73 percent, up to about 82 percent by weight.High fructose corn syrups having at least about 80 by weight of their solids as fructose are most preferred because of the high water holding capacity of fructose compared to the capacities of other sugars at microbially shelf stable water activities i.e. less than about 0.7 . Examples of other humectant sugars include maltose, sorbose, mannose, and galactose. When sucrose ls employed in the filler cookie dough, the humectant sugar should comprise at least about 15 percent, and preferably at least about ,20 percent, by weight of the total sugar solids content of the filler cookie dough. In addition to the humectant sugars, humectants, or aqueous solutions of humectants which are not. sugars or possess a low degree of sweetness relative to sucrose may also be employed in the filler cookie dough. For example, the use of glycerol, sugar alcohols such as mannitol, maltitol, xylitol and sorbitol, and other polyols , as humectants is well known in the art.Additional examples of humectant polyols i.e. polyhydric alcohols include humectant glycols, for example propyiene glycol and hydrogenated glucose syrups. Other humectants include sugar esters, dextrins, hydrogenated starch hydrolysates, and other starch hydrolysis products. However, the humectant sugars are preferred because of their sweetness. Edible humectant gels such as a humectant sucrose gel and or a high fructose corn syrup gel can be used in the filler cookie dough for achieving a soft texture.However, such humectant gels are preferably employed in combination with one of the other humectant materials mentioned above. Preparation of the gels and of doughs containing them for producing soft edible baked products is taught in U.S. patent number 4,444,799 and commonly assigned pending U.S. application Serial No. 712,206, filed March 15, 1985, which is a continuation of U.S.application Serial No. 580,365, filed February 16, 1984, which in turn is a continuation in part of the application which issued as U.S. patent number L,4411,799. The aforementioned patent is herein incorporated herein by reference in its entirety. The total sugar solids content of the casing dough bakeable to the firm and tender outer portion of the cookie of the present invention may range from about 25 to about 150 pounds per 100 pounds of the flour component of the dough, depending upon the degree of sweetness desired in the outer portion of the cookie, and the type of cookie. In the filler dough bakeable to a cake like moist and soft texture, on the basis of 100 pounds of the flour component of the filler dough, the humectant plus any sucrose or other sweetener employed e.g. artificial sweeteners in the formulation may be present in amounts ranging from about 25 to about 150 pounds depending on the degree of sweetness and humectant properties desired in the baked product. The total sugar solids content exclusive of inclusions of each of the filler and casing doughs may be from about 50 to about 110 pounds of sugar per 100 pounds of the flour component of the filler and casing doughs, respectively. The total sugar solids content of the filler dough may be at least 20 more than the total sugar solids content of the casing dough, based upon 100 pounds of the flour component of the filler and casing dough, respectively. The flour and shortening employed in the fi 1lerand casing cookie doughs used in the process and dough composition of the present invention are selected from conventional ingredient lines. The flour component may be any comminuted cereal grain or edible seed meal such as wheat flour, corn flour, corn starch, modified starch, rice flour, potato flour, barley flour, or the like.Wheat flour is preferred, and may be bleached or unbleached. Bleached flour tends to produce less oven spread during baking. To contribute to widening of the differential in water content of the inner and outer portions of the cookie, at the same shelf stable water activity, it is desireable to use a flour or starches having a higher water holding capacity in the filler dough. The shortening may be any edible fat or oil or mixtures thereof suitable for baking applications, and may further include conventional food grade emulsifiers.The shortening may be present in each dough in amounts ranging from about 20 percent to about 80 by weight based upon the weight of flour in the dough. Each of the doughs may contain up to about 5 percent by weight of a leavening system, based upon the weight of the flour in each dough. The leavening system employed in each dough may be the same or different. To promote a tender, non cohesive cake like soft textured crumb structure, it is desirable to include one or more emulsifiers and or pregelatinized starch in the filler cookie dough. These ingredients serve to bind water and to increase the difference in water content between the inner and outer portions at the same shelfstable water activity of the cookie. Suitable amounts are up to about 3 by weight of one or more emulsifiers and up to about 12 by weight of one or more pregelatinized starches, each percent being based upon the weight of the flour. Exemplary of pregelatinized starches are pregelatinized corn, wheat, and waxy maize starch.Typical emulsifiers which can be used include sorbitan monostearate, mono and or di glycerides, polyoxyethylene sorbitan fatty acid esters, such as polysorbates e.g., polyoxyethylene 20 sorbitan monostearate , and sodium stearoyl 2 lactate. The initial moisture content of the casing dough and of the filler dough are each adjusted to provide the desired consistency to the dough to enable proper mixing, working and shaping of each dough and of the coextrudate.The total moisture content of the filler and casing doughs will include any water included as a separately added ingredient, as well as the moisture provided by flour which usually contains about 12 to about 14 by weight moisture , the moisture provided by the optional humectant gel, and the moisture content of other dough additives included in the formulation, such as high fructose corn syrup, invert syrups, or other liquid humectants. Taking into account all sources of moisture in the dough, including separately added water, the total initial moisture content of the casing dough is generally less than about 15 by weight. of the dough formulation, exclusive of particulate inclusions such as nuts, raisins, chocolate chips, and the like.At moisture contents above about 15 by weight, the dough compositions may tend to stick excessively to processing equipment such as conveyors, dough cutters, and the like. The initial moisture content of the filler cookie dough is generally at least about 15 by weight more than the initial moisture content of the casing cookie dough.The higher moisture content of the filler dough facilitates attainment of a higher water content in the inner portion of the cookie than in the outer portion, at the same shelf stable water activity. In addition to the foregoing, the filler and casing cookie doughs used in the process and dough composition of the invention may include other additives conventionally employed in cookies. Such additives may include, for example, milk by products, egg or egg by products, cocoa, vanilla, cereal oatmeal as well as inclusions such as nuts, raisins, coconut, flavored chips such as chocolate chips, butterscotch chips and caramel chips, and the like. The filler and casing cookie doughs can each be prepared in a conventional manner using a creaming stage and a dough forming stage. The humectant is conveniently mixed in during the creaming stage of the casing dough preparation. The humectant and at least part of any sucrose which is used are conveniently mixed with the fat or shortening in the creaming stage before the flour and any remaining sucrose are added. The humectants which are in liquid form, such as molasses or high fructose corn syrup, are suitably added with water prior to addition of the flour. If flavor chips are to be added to either or both cookie doughs, they are preferably added as the last ingredient to the dough with minflmal mixing so as to avoid smearing of the flavor chips into the dough.Before being combined with the, casing dough, the filler dough is preferably cooled to about 600 to about 650F about 15.60 to about 18.3 C using carbon dioxide snow to facilitate its transfer through a coextruder or other dough forming device. The two cookie doughs may be combined by coextrusion through concentric dies to obtain a coextrudate rope with the filler cookie dough in side and the casing cookie dough outside. The coextrudate rope is cut into pieces using a reciprocating cutter or other cutter which severs the rope and stretches the casing dough to close the end portions of the rope so as to obtain an enrobed dough piece which is bakeable to the cookie of the present invention. Apparatus for forming a composite dough piece in which a center formed of the filler cookie dough is surrounded by or is enrobed by an outer layer formed of the casing cookie dough is described in detail in U.S.Patent No. 4,528,900 entitled High Production Method andApparatus for Forming Filled Edible Products , and in U.S. Patent No. 4,534,726 entitled Apparatus HavingShims Underlying Portions of a Die , both by WilliamSimelunas. These patents are herein incorporated by rererence. The composite dough pieces suitably have a weight ratio of the filler dough to the casing dough within the range from about 0.80 to 1.2, approximately equal amounts of each dough being preferred. The time and temperature of baking are adjusted in accordance with conventional techniques to provide a moisture content in the baked cookie of 6 percent or more, based upon the weight of the cookie, inclusive of inclusions such as flavor chips. A typical multltextured chocolate chip cookie produced in accordance with the present invention has a moisture content Brabender 1450C, 12 minutes of from about 7 to about 8.5 by weight, based upon the total weight of the cookie, which includes chocolate chips throughout the cookie. Moisture contents are determined by first grinding the cookies and then using conventional moisture analysis. techniques on the ground sample.Exemplary Or such techniques areBrabender set at 145 C, for 12 minutes analysis or vacuum oven set at 700C for 211 hours analysis, with appropriate correlation. The water activity of the, baked cookie should be less than about 0.7, preferably less than or equal to about 0.65, to assure microbial shelf stability. While baking times and temperatures will vary for different. dough formulations, oven types, etc., in general commercial cookie baking times may range from about 5 minutes to about 15 minutes and baking temperatures for cookies may range from about 2500F 1210C to about 5000F 2600C . The cookie dough compositions of the present invention.may be used for the production of drop type cookies, such as chocolate chip cookies, oatmeal cookies, chocolate fudge cookies, peanut butter cookies, sugar cookies, butter cookies, and the like. The present invention is further illustrated in the following examples where all parts, ratios, and percentages are by weight and all temperatures are in OF, unless otherwise stated. EXAMPLE 1 A dual textured chocolate chip cookie is prepared by coextruding an inner or filler cookie dough bakeable to a moist, cake like soft texture with an outer or casing cookie dough bakeable to a firm and tender texture through a concentric die into a coextrudate rope. The rope is severed with a reciprocating cutter having hemispherically shaped dough forming sections into enrobed dough pieces. The weight of the inner ball of dough is about equal to the weight of the outer dough. The ingredients and their relative amounts used to prepare the casing dough bakeable to a firm texture and having a calculated sugar solids content of about 15 lactose, 15 dextrose, 0.4X fructose, and the balance essentially sucrose, based upon the total sugar solids.content of the casing dough were Casing Parts Ingredient By Weight Bleached medium wheat flour about 12 H2O 100.0,, Dextrose monohydrate, powdered 11.44 Sucrose 49.0 Lactose 10.69 Molasses, sugar cane 2.5 Vegetable shortening 60.0 Sodium bicarbonate 2.63 Sodium acid pyrophosphate 0.75 Salt 1.5 Spray dried whole eggs 1.0 Flavoring 0.111 Coloring 0.21 Chocolate drops 4800 count 50.0 Water 18.5 The sugars were all used in their commercially available forms. The sucrose was fine granulated 1 sugar consisting of essentially 100 sucrose. The dextrose contained 92 sollds, essentially 100 2 of was dextrose.The lactose contained 98 solids, essentially 100 of which was lactose. The spray dried egg used contained 97 solids, of which 29 was sugar, essentially all sucrose. The molasses contained about 80 solids, of which about 30 was sucrose and about 32 was invert sugar about 50 dextrose and 50 fructose . This casing dough was prepared using an upright mixer running at low speed. One third of the sucrose, together with the shortening, spray, oil, dextrose, lactose, salt, dried eggs, and flavoring was placed in the mixing, bowl and mixed for 3 minutes to obtain a smooth consistency. The molasses, coloring and water were then added and the mixing continued for 1 minute.The flour, sodium bicarbonate and sodium acid pyrophosphate were added and the mixing continued for a further 2 minutes. The remaining sucrose was then added and the mixing continued for a further 2 minutes.Finally, the chocolate chips were added at 60 F 15.60C and the mixing was continued for a further 1 minute to prepare the finished casing dough. The ingredients and their relative amounts used to prepare the filler dough bakeable to a soft texture were Filler Parts Ingredients By Weight Bleached medium wheat flour about 12 H20 by weight 100.0 Chocolate drops 4200 count 75.0 Sucrose 25.0 Vegetable shortening 38.0 High fructose corn syrup about 72 solids 42X fructose, 50 dextrose 88.5 Sodium bicarbonate 1.25 Ammonium bicarbonate 0.25 Sodium acid pyrbphosphate, anhydrous 0.31 Modified corn starch 8.5 Non fat dry milk about 52 lactose 4.0 Spray dried whole eggs 29 sucrose, 97 solids 1.5 Salt 1.5 Coloring 0.19 Flavoring 0.15 Water 11.0 The filler dough was prepared using the same upright mixer and low mixing speed as used in preparing the casing dough.The sucrose, vegetable shortening, starch, dried milk, dried eggs, salt, flavoring and 15 by weight of the flour were placed in the mixing bowl and mixed for 3 minutes. The ammonium bicarbonate was then dissolved in part of the water and added to the mixing bowl , together with the coloring and the remaining water. The mixing was continued for 2 minutes. The high fructose corn syrup was then added, the mixture cooled with carbon dioxide snow, and then the mixing was continued for a further 1 minute. The remaining flour, the sodium bicarbonate, and sodium acid pyrophosphÅate, were added and the mlxlng continued for a further 3 minutes.The chocolate drops were added, and the mixing continued for a further 1 minute to produce the finished filler dough with a temperature of about 600F to 620F. The enrobed cookie preform, or composite dough, prepared from the casing dough and filler dough was baked to an end point moisture content of about 7.3 by weight, based upon the weight of the cookie, and cooled at room temperature. The moisture content was determined by grinding a sample of about 12 ounces of cookies into a homogeneous mixture and measuring the moisture content of the mixture on a Brabender moisture analyzer set at 1.45DC for 12 mintues. The cookies had a pH of about 7.5. The cookies were stored in a closed container at room temperature until the moisture in the.cookies equilibrated between the firm and soft regions of the cookie. The outer dough portion had a firm and tender textured crumb structure and the inner dough portion possessed a cake like soft and plastic crumb matrix having a distinctly leavened appearance. EXAMPLE 2 A dual textured chocolate chip cookie can be prepared as in Example 1 except 1 the dried eggs can be eliminated in the casing and 2 the relative amounts of the following casing ingredients can be altered to Casing Parts Ingredient By Weight Sucrose. 52.5 Dextrose monohydrate 13.69 Lactose 8.0 Water 17.0 On a calculated basis the casing dough would have about 10 lactose, 17 dextrose, 0.4 fructose, and the balance essentially sucrose, based upon the total sugar solids content of the casing dough. EXAMPLE 3 A dual textured chocolate chip cookie was prepared as in Example 1 except the relative amounts of the following casing ingredients were altered to Casing. Parts Ingredient by Weight Sucrose 42.0 Dextrose monohydrate 15.25 Lactose 14.25 Water 21.0 On a calculated basis, the casing dough has about 20 lactose, 20X dextrose, 0. fructose, and the balance essentially sucrose, based upon the total sugar solids content of the casing, dough. The composite dough was baked to an end point moisture content of 7.5 Brabender set at 1450C for 12 minutes and the pH of the cookies was about 7.5. EXAMPLE 4 A dual textured chocolate chip cookie was prepared as in Example 1 except 1 the molasses and dextrose monohydrate were eliminated in the casing, 2 the relative amount of lactose in the casing was altered to 21.2 parts instead of 10.69 parts by weight, and 3 the dough pieces were baked to an end point moisture content of 7 Brabender set at 145 C for 12 minutes . On a calculated basis, the casing dough has about 30 lactose and about 70 sucrose, based upon the total sugar solids content of the casing dough. EXAMPLE 5 Dual textured chocolate chip cookies can be produced as in Examples 1 through 4 except in the filler dough 1 the high fructose corn syrup can be replaced by 88.5 parts by weight of a high fructose corn syrup having about 77 solids, of which about 90 is fructose, 7 is dextrose and 3 is other sugars, and the water can be increased to 15 parts by weight. EXAMPLE 6 Dual textured chocolate chip cookies can be produced as in Example 1 except 1 the 49 parts by weight of sucrose and the 10.69 parts by weight lactose can be replaced by 60 parts by weight lactose. On a calculated basis, the casing dough would have about 16.1S dextrose, 82.2S lactose, 0.4X fructose and the balance essentially sucrose, based upon the total sugar solids content of the casing dough.