# Concentrating immunochemical test strip.

## Abstract
A method and device for determining the presence of an analyte in a sample suspected of containing the analyte is dis closed. The method involves contacting a test solution con taining the sample and a first member of a specific binding pair with an end portion of a strip of bibulous material capable of be ing traversed by the test solution through capillary action. The first member of a specific binding pair is capable of binding the analyte. The strip contains a second member of a specific bind ing pair integral therewith for concentrating and non diffusive ly binding the first sbp member at a small situs on the strip sepa rated from the end portion of the strip. The detectible signal is produced in relation to the presence of the analyte in the test solution. The test solution passes through the situs as the test solution traverses the bibulous material. After the test solution has been allowed to traverse at least a portion of the strip, the strip is contacted with a developer solution containing mem bers of a signal producing system in a manner that provides contact of the developer solution with the small situs following its contact with the test solution. The strip is then contacted with any remaining members of the signal producing system. The detectible signal produced at the situs is then compared with the signal detectible at a portion of the strip other than the situs to determine the analyte in the sample. In one embodi ment of the invention the signal produced at the small situs has a sharp edged distinctive pattern that provides a sharp con trast to the signal produced at adjacent sites on the strip when analyte is present in the test solution.