# ANTIBIOTIC ISOXAZOLE DERIVATIVES, THEIR PRODUCTION AND USE

## Claims
Patentansprüche für folgende Vertragsstaaten BE, CH, DE, FR, GB, IT, LU, NL, SE

## Description
This invention relates to novel 2 4 substituted amino 3 oxo 2 isoxazolidinyl 5 oxo 2 tetrahydrofurancarboxylic acid derivatives exhibiting excellent antimicrobial and β lactamase inhibitory activities, to processes for production thereof and to uses thereof. Recently, a novel antibiotic TAN 588 hereinafter referred to in some instances briefly as TAN 588 exhibiting antimicrobial activity against gram positive and gram negative bacteria has been harvested from new species of microorganisms belonging to the genera Heretofore, there has been reported a synthesis of a compound consisting of a 3 oxoisoxazolidine ring having a 1 methylacetic acid group introduced at its nitrogen atom Tsuji and Yamana Heterocycles, The present inventors synthesized derivatives of the antibiotic TAN 588 exhibiting antimicrobial activity, and as a result, it was found that the said derivatives possess excellent antimicrobial activity. The finding was followed by further research leading to this invention. The invention is concerned with In preparing the compounds of the present invention, the antibiotic TAN 588, i.e. 2 4S 4 acetamido 3 oxo 2 isoxazolidinyl 5 oxo 2 tetrahydrofurancarboxylic acid, its salts, its p nitrobenzyl ester, its benzhydryl ester, or their N deacetyl derivative can be employed as starting materials. The antibiotic TAN 588, which is useful as a starting compound in the processes of this invention, can be produced by cultivating an antibiotic TAN 588 producing microorganism belonging to the genus Also the said microorganisms have been deposited at the Fermentation Reseach Institute, Agency of Industrial Science and Technology, Ministry of International Trade and Industry, Japan, FRI, 1 3, Yatabe cho higashi 1 chome, Tsukuba gun, Ibaragi Prefecture, Japan under the accession number of FERM P number as described below, and the deposits were converted to deposits under the Budapest Treaty and have been stored at FRI under the accession numbers of FERM BP given. As concretly shown in the below mentioned Reference Examples, N deacetyl derivatives of TAN 588 can be produced by introducing a p nitrobenzyl or benzhydryl group into TAN 588 or its salt to prepare the p nitrobenzyl ester or benzhydryl ester derivative, deacetylating the said ester derivative to prepare the p nitrobenzyl ester or benzhydryl ester derivative of N deacetyl TAN 588, and eliminating such ester groups. The objective compound I thus obtained can be isolated and purified by the The presence of two asymmetric carbons in the basic skeleton allows theoretically the objective compound I to exist in four kinds of stereoisomers, and their individual stereoisomers and mixtures thereof fall into the scope of this invention. Similarly, the occurence of any asymmetric carbon in the groups represented by R¹ and R² results in existence of stereoisomers, and their individual stereoisomers and mixtures thereof are also included in the scope of this invention. In cases in which the above described reaction produces these stereoisomers as a mixture, their individual stereoisomers can be isolated by the conventional methods, such as various chromatographic procedures and recrystallization, if necessary. The compound I of this invention can in some instances act on bases to form salts. The said base includes, for example, inorganic bases, such as sodium, potassium, lithium, calcium, magnesium and ammonia, and organic bases, such as pyridine, collidine, triethylamine and triethanolamine. The compound I , when produced in the free form, may beallowed to form salts by use of the conventional means, and the compound I obtained in the form of a salt may be converted into the free form by use of the conventional means. Also, the compound I in some instances forms the intramolecular salt and such a salt falls within the scope of this invention, as well. The stereoisomers of the compound I , either alone or as a mixture, can be used as a drug. The compound I thus obtained is useful as a drug, having antimicrobial activity against some species of gram positive and gram negative bacteria. Biological properties of the compound I are described in the following. Typical compounds of the compound I demonstrate antimicrobial spectra against different microorganisms as shown in Table 1. The compound of the compound I of this invention wherein R¹ NHCOH, R² COONa and X H, as obtained in Example 21 b , when administered subcutaneously to mice in the amount of 400 mg kg, was observed to cause no lethal case. Therefore, the compound I or its salts are considered to be of low toxicity. As described above, the compound I of this invention and its salts have antimicrobial activity against some species of gram positive and gram negative bacteria, and in addition, are of low toxicity. Consequently, they can be used, as an antimicrobial agent or as a therapeutic agent for bacterial infections, for the treatment of bacterial infections e.g., respiratory tract infections, urinary tract infections, suppurative diseases, bile duct infections, intratestinal infections, gynecological infections, surgical infections, etc. in mammals e.g., mouse, rat, dog, cattle, pig, human being caused by infections with bacteria. The daily dosage of the compound I or its salt is in an amount of about 2 to 100 mg kg as the compound I , more preferably about 5 to 40 mg kg. For administration of the compound I , the compound I or its pharmacologically acceptable salt can be formulated by the conventional means with a suitable, pharmacologically acceptable carrier, excipient and diluent into such dosage form as a tablet, granule, capsule or elixir to administer orally, and also can be processed into an injectable solution by the conventional means, followed by incorporation into a sterile carrier prepared by the conventional means to administer parenterally. In producing the above described oral pharmaceutical preparations, such as tablets, there can suitably be formulated binding agents e.g., hydroxylpropylcellulose, hydroxypropylmethyl cellulose, macrogol, etc. , disintegrating agents e.g., starch, carboxymethylcellulose calcium, etc. , excipients e.g., lactose, starch, etc. , lubricants e.g., magnesium stearate, talc, etc. and the like. In manufacturing non oral or parenteral pharmaceutical preparations, such as injectable solutions, there can suitably be formulated isotonizing agents e.g., glucose, D sorbitol, D mannitol, sodium chloride, etc. , preservatives e.g., benzyl alcohol, chlorobutanol, methyl p oxybenzoate, propyl p oxybenzoate, etc. , buffering agents e.g., phosphate buffers, sodium acetate buffer, etc. and the like. The Reference Example and Examples are described in the following to illustrate this invention in more detail,. The term percent means weight volume , unless specified otherwise. In the resins to be used, the ones designated by the abbreviations are defined as follows. The abbreviations used in the examples are as defined as follows. In the examples to be described in the following, the TAN 588 sodium salt a mixture of two isomers A and B as obtained in the above is in some instances referred to as Compound R 1 . In 500 ml of dichloromethane were dissolved 58.8 g of benzophenone hydrazone, 42 ml of 1,1,3,3 tetramethylguanidine and 150 mg of iodine, and after the mixed solution was cooled to 0 C to 5 C, 74 g of m chloroperbenzoic acid with a purity of 70 was added, followed by stirring at 0 C for 40 minutes. The reaction solution was washed with water and dried over sodium sulfate, and the solvent was distilled off to give diphenyldiazomethane. 31 g of TAN 588 sodium salt a mixture of two isomers A and B was suspended in tetrahydrofurane, and the whole amount of diphenyldiazomethane as obtained in the above was dissolved in 150 ml of tetrahydrofurane and added to the suspension. The mixed solution was cooled at 0 C, and 60 ml of 2N HCl was added dropwise, followed by stirring at room temperature for 1 hour. 10 ml of 2N HCl was added, followed by stirring for another 1 hour, and 3 ℓ of dichloromethane was added. The resulting solution was washed with water and concentrated, and ether was added to the residue to give 28 g of a white crystalline powder of TAN 588 benzhydryl ester a mixture of isomers A and B . The above mixture 1.8 g was chromatographed on a column of silica gel 180 ml , and elution was performed with the solvent system of chloroform methanol 97 3 , whereby the compound isomer B eluted firstly and then the compound of isomer A eluted. Each of the fractions was concentrated to give the isomer A 433 mg , isomer B 400 mg and a mixture of the isomer A and B 476 mg of TAN 588 benzhydryl ester in the form of colorless crystals. In the examples to be described in the following, the TAN 588 benzhydryl ester a mixture of isomers A and B as obtained in the above is in some instances referred to as Compound R 2 . The TAN 588 benzhydryl ester a mixture of isomers A and B as obtained in the above shows physico chemical properties as illustrated in the following. The TAN 588 benzhydryl ester isomer A and TAN 588 benzhydryl ester isomer B as obtained in the above show the properties as illustrated in the following. In 1.2 ℓ of dichloromethane was suspended 26 g 59 mmole of TAN 588 benzhydryl ester a mixture of isomers A and B , and the suspension was cooled to 20 C. 49 ml of pyridine and 37.6 g of phosphorus chloride were added to it, followed by stirring at 10 to 15 C for 50 minutes. The mixed solution was cooled to 30 C, and 180 ml of methanol was added, followed by stirring at 5 to 15 C for 30 minutes and then at room temperature for 1 hour. 100 ml of 1N HCl was added to the mixture, followed by stirring at room temperature for 45 minutes, and 100 ml of 50 aqueous sodium phosphate and 2N sodium hydroxide ca. 500 ml were added to the reaction solution to adjust the pH of the aqueous layer to 8.0. The aqueous layer was separated from the dichloromethane layer and extracted with dichloroemthane 600 ml , and the organic layers were combined and concentrated, followed by addition of ether to the residue to give 17.9 g of a white powder of a benzhydryl ester of the N deacetyl TAN 588 a mixture of isomers A and B . In the examples to be described below, the benzhydryl ester of the N deacetyl TAN 588 a mixture of isomers A and B as obtained in the above is in some instances referred to as Compound R 3 . The benzhydryl ester a mixture of isomers A and B of the N deacetyl TAN 588 as obtained in the above shows physico chemical properties as illustrated below. In 10 ml of dichloromethane was suspended 396 mg of benzhydryl ester a mixture of isomers A and B of the N deacetyl TAN 588, and the suspension was cooled to 20 C. 434 µl of anisole and 924 µl of trifluoroacetic acid were added to the suspension , followed by stirring at 20 to 10 C for 40 minutes. 280 ml of dichloromethane was added to the reaction solution, followed by extraction with 0.1M H₃PO₄ Na₂HPO₄ solution pH 7.3 420 ml . The extract was adjusted to pH 5.5 and concentrated, and the concentrate was passed through a column packed with Diaion HP 20 50 to 100 mesh, 100 ml . The column was washed with water, and elution was effected with 40 aqueous methanol. The fractions exhibiting antimicrobial activity were collected, concentrated and lyophilized to give 143 mg of a white powder of the N deacetyl TAN 588 a mixture of isomers A and B . The N deacetyl TAN 588 a mixture of isomers A and B as obtained in the above shows physico chemical properties as illustrated in the following. In the examples to be described below, the N deacetyl TAN 588 a mixture of isomers A and B is in some instances referred to as Compound R 4 . In water was dissolved 100 mg of a white powder of the N deacetyl TAN 588 a 1 1 mixture of isomers A and B , and the solution was allowed to stand overnight at 7 C, whereby colorless crystals separated out. The crystals which separated out were recovered by filtration to give 40 mg of the N deacetyl TAN 588 isomer A in the form of crystals. The crystals of the N deacetyl TAN 588 as obtained in the above show physico chemical properties as illustrated in the following. By following the procedure of Reference Example 3, 657 mg of TAN 588 benzhydryl ester isomer B was reacted and treated to give 200 mg of a benzhydryl ester isomer B of the N deacetyl TAN 588. 180 mg of the said compound was dissolved in 18 ml of aqueous tetrahydrofurane 1 1 , and 90 mg of 10 palladium carbon was added to the solution, followed by stirring under a stream of hydrogen. After the catalyst was filtered out, the filtrate was concentrated, and the aqueous layer was washed with diethyl ether, concentrated and lyophilized to give 77 mg of a powder of the N deacetyl TAN 588 isomer B . The powder of the N deacetyl TAN 588 as obtained in the above shows physico chemical properties as illustrated in the following. In DMF 4 ml was dissolved TAN 588 sodium salt 400 mg , and triethylamine 10 µl and p nitrobenzyl bromide 800 mg were added to the solution, followed by stirring at room temperature for 3 hours. 0.1M phosphate buffer pH 6.3, 50 ml was added to the reaction solution, and extraction was effected twice with ethyl acetate 50 ml . The extract was washed with water, and concentrated, and the resultant oily material was treated with ethyl acetate petroleum benzin to convert into powder 507 mg , thereby giving a mixture of TAN 588 p nitrobenzyl ester isomer A and TAN 588 p nitrobenzyl ester isomer B . The resultant powder was chromatographed on a column of Sephadex LH 20 using ethyl acetate methanol 19 1 as a mobile phase to give TAN 588 p nitrobenzyl ester isomer A 105 mg , TAN 588 p nitrobenzyl ester isomer B 67 mg and a mixture thereof 280 mg . The p nitrobenzyl ester of TAN 588 as obtained in the above a mixture of isomers A and B shows physico chemical properties as illustrated in the following. The TAN 588 p nitrobenzyl ester isomer A as obtained in the above shows physico chemical properties as illustrated in the following. The TAN 588 p nitrobenzyl ester isomer B as obtained in the above shows physico chemical properties as illustrated in the following. Diphenylmethyl 2 4S 4 amino 3 oxo 2 isoxazolidinyl 5 oxo 2 tetrahydro furancarboxylate Compound 1a as obtained in the above was dissolved in a mixed solution of tetrahydrofuran and water, and sodium N methyldithiocarbamate was added little by little to the solution, followed by stirring at room temperature for 1 hour. THF was distilled off, and the residue was extracted with ethyl acetate. The extract was washed with saturated aqueous sodium chloride solution and dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate. The extract was freed of solvent, and the residue was chromatographed on silica gel, followed by elution with ethyl acetate to give Compound 1b in the form of a colorless foamed substance. Anisole and trifluoroacetic acid were added to a dichloromethane solution of the Compound 1b under an atmosphere of nitrogen at 10 C to 15 C, followed by stirring for 5.5 hours. The reaction solution was poured into a phosphate buffer of pH 7.0 8 mℓ containing sodium hydrogencarbonate 220 mg under cooling, and the aqueous layer was separated, while the organic layer was extracted with a phosphate buffer of pH 7.0 4 mℓ . The aqueous layers were combined, washed with dichloromethane and concentrated under reduced pressure. The concentrate was chromatographed on HP 20, and elution was performed with water, followed by lyophilization of the eluate to give the subject Compound 1c in the form of a colorless powder. From Compound R 3 and N 4 ethyl 2,3 dioxo 1 piperizinylcarbonyl D phenylglycine, there was obtained Compound 2a , a diphenylmethyl ester of the subject Compound 2b , by the procedure of Example 1 a . Compound 2a as obtained above was dissolved in THF 10 ml and a buffer of pH 6.86 5 ml , and 5 palladium carbon 141 mg was added to the solution followed by stirring under a hydrogen atmosphere and under ice cooling for 20 minutes. The catalyst was filtered off, and the filtrate was freed of THF under reduced pressure. The residual solution was washed with ethyl acetate, and the aqueous layer was concentrated under reduced pressure and chromatographed on a column of XAD 2, followed by elution with 20 aqueous ethanol. The eluate was concentrated under reduced pressure, and the concentrate was lyophilized to give the subject Compound 2b in the form of a colorless powder. From Compound R 3 and N 3 methylsulfonyl 2 oxoisoxazolidinyl 1 carbonyl D phenylglycine, there was obtained Compound 3a ,a diphenylmethyl ester of the subject Compound 3b by the procedure of Example 1 a , and by following the procedure of Example 2, there was obtained the subject Compound 3b . By the procedure of Example 1 a , Compound R 3 was acylated to give Compound 4a , a diphenylmethyl ester of the subject Compound 4b , and by the procedure of Example 2, there was obtained the subject Compound 4b . Dimethylformamide and 2 thiopheneacetyl chloride were added to a dichloromethane solution of Compound R 3 under ice cooling, followed by stirring for 10 minutes and then at room temperature for 20 minutes. Ethyl acetate was added to the reaction solution, and the organic layer was washed with aqueous sodium hydrogencarbonate solution and water, successively, and dried over anhydrous magnesium sulfate. The solvent was distilled off under reduced pressure, and ether was added to the residue to give Compound 5a , a diphenylmethyl ester of the subject Compound 5a in the form of a colorless powder. Then, the Compound 5a was treated by the procedure of Example 1 c to give the subject Compound 5b . Using Compound R 3 and cyanoacetic acid, there was obtained Compound 6a , a diphenylmethyl ester of the subject Compound 6b , by the procedure of Example 1 a , and then, the procedure of Example 2 b was carried out to give the subject Compound 6b . Using Compound R 3 and 1H tetrazolylacetic acid, there was obtained Compound 7a , a diphenylmethyl ester of the subject Compound 7b , by the procedure of Example 1 a , and then the procedure of Example 2 b was carried out to give the subject Compound 7b . Using Compound R 3 and 2,6 dimethoxybenzoyl chloride, there was obtained Compound 8a , a diphenylmethyl ester of the subject Compound 8b , by the procedure of Example 5 and 2 b , and then, the subject Compound 8b was produced. Using Compound R 3 and 5 methyl 3 phenyl 2 isoxazolyl 4 carbonyl chloride, there was obtained Compound 9a , a diphenylmethyl ester of the subject Compound 9b , by the procedure of Example 5, and then, the procedure of Example 2 b was conducted to give the subject Compound 9b . Using Compound R 3 and 2 ethoxynaphthalenyl 1 carbonyl chloride, there was obtained Compounds 10a , a diphenylmethyl ester of the subject Compound 10b , by the procedure of Example 5, and then, the procedure of Example 2 b was carried out to give the subject Compound 10b . Below are given the reaction conditions of Examples 1 to 10 as well as the yields and typical physico chemical properties of the compounds obtained. Using Compound R 3 and cyanomethylthioacetyl chloride, there was obtained Compound 11a , a diphenylmethyl ester of the subject Compound 11b , by the procedure of Example 5, and then the procedure of Example 1 c was carried out to give the subject Compound 11b . Using Compound R 3 and difluoromethylthioacetyl chloride, there was ontained Compound 12a , a diphenylmethyl ester of the subject Compound 12b , by the procedure of Example 5, and then, the procedure of Example 1 c was carried out to give the subject Compound 12b . Using Compound R 3 and N 4 cyclohexyl 2,3 dioxo 1 piperazinylcarbonyl D phenylglycine, there was obtained Compound 13a chromatography on silica gel permitted isolation of the stereoisomers in relation to the 2 position, A and B , a diphenylmethyl ester of the subject Compound 13b , by the procedure of Example 2 a . Then, using the isomers, A and B, of Compound 13a , there was obtained the subject Compound 13b by the procedure of Example 2 b . Propylene oxide was added to a dichloromethane solution of Compound R 3 under cooling at 10 C to 20 C, and then, chloroacetyl chloride was added dropwise to the mixture, followed by stirring at the same temperature for 1 hour. The reaction solution was poured into aqueous sodium hydrogencarbonate solution 10 ml , and the organic layer was separated, washed with saturated aqueous sodium chloride solution and dried over anhydrous magnesium sulfate. The solvent was distilled off, and the residue was chromatographed on a column of silica gel, followed by elution with dichloromethane ethyl acetate hexane 1 1 1 to give Compound 14a , a diphenylmethyl ester of the subject Compound 14b , in the form of crystals. Then, a deprotection reaction was carried out by the procedure of Example 1 c with Compound 14a to give the subject Compound 14b . Using Compound 14a as obtained in Example 14, a reaction was carried out with 4 pyridinethiol to give Compound 15a , a diphenylmethyl ester of the subject Compound 15b , and the procedure of Example 1 c was carried out to give the subject Compound 15b . Sodium 2 4S 4 acetamido 3 oxo 2 isoxazolidinyl 5 oxo 2 tetrahydrofurancarboxylate Compound R 1 was dissolved in DMF, and chloromethyl pivalate was added to the solution, followed by stirring . Water was added to the reaction solution, and the mixture was extracted with 150 ml of ethyl acetate. The extract was concentrated, and the resultant residue was powdered from petroleum ether. 140 mg of the resulting powder was chromatographed on Sephadex LH 20 500 ml , and elution was performed with ethyl acetate methanol 19 1 . The corresponding fractions afforded the subject Compound isomer B of 17 and Compound isomer A of 17 in the form of crystals, respectively. Compound R 1 was dissolved in DMF, and 3,5 dinitrobenzyl chloride was added to the solution, followed by stirring. Water was added to the reaction system, and the mixture was extracted with ethyl acetate. The extract was concentrated, and the residue was powdered from petroleum ether. 624 mg of the resultant powder crystallized from acetone hexane to give crystals of Compound isomer A of 18 . The mother liquor was also crystallized from the same solvent to give crystals of the subject Compound isomer B of 18 . Compound R 1 was dissolved in DMF, and p bromophenacyl bromide was added to the solution, followed by stirring. Water was added to the reaction solution, and the mixture was extracted with ethyl acetate. The extract was concentrated, and petroleum benzine was added to the residue to give 410 mg of a powder. The powder was chromatographed on Sephadex LH 20 500 ml , and elution for fractionation was performed with a solvent system of ethyl acetate methanol 19 1 . The fraction which flowed out of the column first produced a powder of the subject Compound isomer B of 19 and the fraction which flowed out of the column last afforded a powder of Compound isomer A of 19 , while the fraction which flowed out intermediate yielded a powder of Compound a mixture of isomers A and B of 19 . Compound R 1 was dissolved in DMF, and triethylamine and p bromobenzyl bromide were added to the solution, followed by stirring. 100 ml of 0.1M phosphate buffer pH 6.3 was added to the reaction solution, and the mixture was extracted with ethyl acetate. The extract was concentrated, and chloroform and petroleum benzine were added to the residue to convert it into powder, thereby giving 562 mg of a powder. The powder was chromatographed on a column of Sephadex LH 20, and elution was performed with ethyl acetate methanol 19 1 . The fraction which flowed out of the column first yielded crystals of the subject Compound isomer B of 20 , and the fraction which flowed out last afforded crystals of Compound isomer A of 20 , while the fraction which flowed out intermediate gave a powder of Compound a mixture of isomers A and B of 20 . Below given are the reaction conditions of Examples 16 to 20 as well as the yields and typical physico chemical properties of the compounds obtained. Compound R 3 was dissolved in dichloromethane, and pyridine and a mixed solution of acetic anhydride and formic acid were added to the solution, followed by stirring. The reaction solution was washed with N hydrochloric acid and 2 aqueous sodium hydrogencarbonate solution, successively, and the organic layer was dried and concentrated, followed by adding ether to the residue to give a powder of Compound 21a . 10 palladium carbon was suspended in THF, and Compound 21a was added to the suspension, followed by stirring under a stream of hydrogen. After the catalyst was filtered off, the filtrate was concentrated, and water was added to the concentrated residue, followed by adjustment to pH 6. The aqueous layer was washed with ether, and chromatographed on activated carbon. Elution for fractionation was performed with a solvent system of 8 isobutanol 0.02N aqueous ammonia, and the eluate fraction was concentrated. The residue was treated with acetone and converted into powder to give a powder of the subject Compound 21b . Compound R 3 was dissolved in dichloromethane, and N,N dimethylacetamide DMA and n butyryl chloride were added to the solution, followed by stirring. The reaction solution was treated by the procedure of Example 21 a to give a powder of Compound 22a . 10 Palladium carbon was suspended in THF and 0.1M phosphate buffer pH 7.0 , and Compound 22a was added to the suspension, followed by stirring under a stream of hydrogen. After the catalyst was filtered off, the THF was distilled off, and the aqueous layer was washed with ether and chromatographed on a column of Diaion HP 20. Elution was performed with water, and the effective fraction was concentrated and lyophilized to give a powder of the subject Compound 22b . Compound R 3 was dissolved in THF, and triethylamine and methyl chlorocarbonate were added to the solution, followed by stirring. The reaction solution was treated by the procedure of Example 21 a to give a powder of Compound 23a . Compound 23a was subjected to a reaction analogous to Example 22 b , and the reaction solution was treated by the procedure of Example 21 b to give a powder of the subject Compound 23b . Methyl chlorocarbonate, N benzyloxycarbonylglycine Z glycine and triethylamine were added to THF, and a suspension of Compound R 3 in THF was added to the said solution, followed by stirring. The reaction solution was treated by the procedure of Example 21 a to give crystals of Compound 24a . Compound 24a was subjected to a reaction analogous to Example 22 b , followed by treatment to give a powder of the subject Compound 24b . Compound R 3 was dissolved in dichloromethane, and DMA and benzoyl chloride were added to the solution, followed by stirring. The reaction solution was treated by the procedure of Example 21 a to give crystals of Compound 25a . Compound 25a was subjected to a reaction analogous to Example 22 b , and after treatment was conducted, the residue was chromatographed on a column of Diaion HP 20, followed by elution with 40 aqueous methanol to give a powder of the subject Compound 25b . Compound R 3 was dissolved in dichloromethane, and DMA and phenylacetyl chloride were added to the solution, followed by stirring. The reaction solution was treated by the procedure of Example 21 a to give crystals of Compound 26a . Compound 26a was subjected to a reaction analogous to Example 25 b , followed by treatment to give a powder of the subject Compound 26b . Production of sodium 2 4S 4 nicotinylamino 3 oxo 2 isoxazolidinyl 5 oxo 2 tetrahydrofurancarboxylate Compound 27b Compound R 3 was dissolved in dichloromethane, and DMA and nicotinyl chloride hydrochloride were added to the solution, followed by stirring. The reaction solution was treated by the procedure of Example 21 a to give crystals of Compound 27a . Compound 27a was subjected to a reaction analogous to Example 22, followed by treatment to give the subject Compound 27b in the form of powder. Compound R 3 was dissolved in dichloromethane, and DMA and phenoxyacetyl chloride were added to the solution, followed by stirring. The reaction solution was treated by the procedure of Example 21 a to give crystals of Compound 28a . Compound 28a was subjected to a reaction analogous to Example 25 b , followed by a work up to give a powder of the subject Compound 28b . Compound 28b was dissolved in DMF, and chloromethyl pivalate was added to the solution, followed by stirring. Water was added to the reaction solution, and the mixture was extracted with ethyl acetate. The extract was concentrated, and hexane was added to the residue. The mixture was subjected to decantation twice and to further decantation twice with petroleum benzine. The residue was dried through a vacuum pump to give the subject Compound 28c . Compound R 3 was dissolved in pyridine, and p toluenesulfonyl chloride was added to the solution, followed by stirring. Dichloromethane and water were added to the reaction solution, and the organic layer was washed with dilute hydrochloric acid and dilute aqueous sodium hydrogencarbonate solution, successively, and concentrated. Ether was added to the concentrate to give a powder of Compound 29a . Compound 29a was subjected to the reaction similar to Example 25 b , followed by work up to give a powder of the subject Compound 29b . Compound R 3 was dissolved in dichloromethane, and DMA and p bromobenzoyl chloride were added to the solution, followed by stirring. The reaction solution was subjected to a work up analogous to Example 25 b to give 528 mg of a crude substance of Compound 30a . This product was chromatographed on silica gel 50 g , and elution was performed with a solvent system of ethyl acetate hexane 2 3 . The eluate was concentrated to give crystals of the subject Compound 30a . N Benzyloxycarbonyl D alanine and triethylamine were added to a THF solution of methyl chlorocarbonate, and a solution of Compound R 3 in THF was added gradually to the solution, followed by stirring. The work up was carried out according to the procedure of Example 21 a to give a powder of the subject Compound 31a . Below are given the reaction conditions of Examples 21 to 31 as well as the yields and typical physico chemical properties of the compounds obtained. Compound R 3 was dissolved in acetonitrile, and formaldehyde, sodium cyanoborohydride and acetic acid were added to the solution, followed by stirring. Water was added to the reaction solution, and the acetonitrile was distilled off, followed by extraction of the aqueous layer with ethyl acetate. The extract was washed with 2 aqueous sodium hydogencarbonate solution and concentrated, and the concentrate was admixed with THF and then 2N hydrochloric acid, followed by stirring at room temperature overnight. The organic layer was concentrated, and water was added to the concentrate, followed by adjustment with aqueous dilute sodium hydroxide solution to pH 10. The water layer was extracted with ethyl acetate, and the extract was concentrated to give a powder of Compound 32a . Compound 32a was subjected to a reaction analogous to Example 25 b , followed by a work up to give a powder of the subject Compound 32b . Below are given the reaction conditions of Example 32 as well as the yield and typical physico chemical properties of the compound obtained. Production of sodium 2 4S 4 2 2 amino 4 thiazolyl acetamido 3 oxo 2 isoxazolidinyl 5 oxo 2 tetrahydrofurancarboxylate Compound 33c Using Compound R 3 and 2 2 chloroacetamido 4 thiazolyl acetyl chloride, there was obtained Compound 33a by the procedure of Example 5. The Compound 33a as obtained above was subjected to a reaction analogous to Example 1 b to give Compound 33b . The Compound 33b as obtained above was subjected to a reaction analogous to Example 1 c to give the subject Compound 33c . Below are given the reaction conditions of Example 33 as well as the yield and physico chemical properties of the compound obtained. The Compound 5a as obtained in Example 5 was dissolved in THF, and a methanol solution of t butyl hypochloride and lithium methoxide was added to the solution under cooling with dry ice acetone, followed by stirring for 5 minutes. Then, after one drop of acetic acid was added, the reaction solution was diluted with ethyl acetate, and the organic layer was washed with aqueous sodium thiosulfate solution and saturated aqueous sodium chloride solution, successively, and dried over anhydrous magnesium sulfate. The solvent was distilled off, and the residue was chromatographed on a column of silica gel to give Compound 34a , a diphenylmethyl ester of the subject Compound 349 . Subsequently, the Compound 34a was dissolved in THF, and a buffer of pH 7.0, palladium black and palladium oxide were added to the solution, followed by stirring under a stream of hydrogen. After the catalyst was filtered off, the filtrate was concentrated under reduced pressure, and the aqueous layer was washed with ether and concentrated. The concentrate was chromatographed on a column of XAD 2, and elution was performed with 10 ethanol. The eluate was concentrated under reduced pressure, and lyophilized to give the subject Compound 34b in the form of a grey white powder. Compound R 3 was suspended in dichloromethane, and butylene oxide and 2 2 chloroacetamido 4 thiazolyl Z 2 4 nitrobenzyloxycarbonylmethoxyimino acetyl chloride hydrochloride were added to the suspension under ice cooling to allow the reaction to proceed for 1 hour. Ethyl acetate was added, and the organic layer was washed with aqueous sodium hydrogencarbonate solution and aqueous sodium chloride solution, successively, and dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate. The solvent was distilled off under reduced pressure to give Compound 35a in the form of a foamed substance. The Compound 35a as obtained above was subjected to a reaction and treatment similar to those of Example 1 b to give Compound 35b . The Compound 35b as obtained above was subjected to a reaction and treatment analogous to Example 1 c to give Compound 35c . The Compound 35c as obtained above was subjected to a reaction and treatment analogous to Example 2 b to give the subject Compound 35d . Below are given the reaction conditions of Example 34 and 35 as well as the yields and typical physico chemical properties of the compounds obtained. Using the following ingredients, tablets are produced by the conventional means 4 to 8 tablets are to be administered to an adult daily after each meal three times per day . Using the following ingredients, tablets are produced by the conventional means 4 to 8 tablets are to be administered to an adult daily after each meal three times per day . Using Compound R 3 and 2 benzyloxycarbonylaminomethylphenylacetic acid, there was obtained Compound 38a by the procedure of Example 1 a . Compound 38a was subjected to a reaction and treatment analogous to Example 2 b to give the subject Compound 38b . Compound R 3 , 4 fluorobenzenesulfonyl chloride and propylene oxide were stirred in DMA under ice cooling for 1 hour, followed by a treatment analogous to Example 1 a to give Compound 39a . Compound 39a was catalytically reduced with use of palladium black, followed by treatment by the procedure of Example 2 b to give the subject compound. Using Compound 14a and 1 2 dimethylaminoethyl 5 mercapto 1H tetrazole, there was obtained Compound 40a , a diphenylmethyl ester of the subject Compound 40b , by the procedure of Example 15, and then, the subject Compound 40b was formed. Using Compound 14a and 3 mercapto 4 methyl 4H 1,2,4 triazole, there was obtained Compound 41a , a diphenylmethyl ester of the subject Compound 41b , by the procedure of Example 15, and then, the subject Compound 41b was formed. Using Compound R 3 and 2R,3S 2 4 ethyl 2,3 dioxo 1 piperazinecarboxamido 3 formyloxybutyric acid, there was obtained Compound 42a , a diphenylmethyl ester of the subject compound, by the procedure of Example 5, and then by following the procedure of Example 2 b , there was formed the subject Compound 42b . Compound R 4 as obtained in Reference Example 4 was dissolved in water, and sodium hydrogencarbonate and an ether solution of phenylsulfoacetyl chloride were added to the solution under ice cooling with stirring. After the reaction was allowed to proceed for 1 hour, the aqueous layer was separated, washed with ethyl acetate and concentrated, and the concentrate was chromatographed on a column of XAD 2. The fraction eluted with water was lyophilized to give the subject Compound 43 in the form of a colorless powder. Compound R 3 and 2 2 chloroacetamido 4 thiazolyl E 2 methoxyiminoacetic acid, there was obtained Compound 44a by conducting a reaction and treatment analogous to Example 1 a . Using Compound 44a , there was obtained Compound 44b by conducting a treatment by the procedure of Example 1 b . Using Compound 44b , there was obtained the subject Compound 44c by conducting a treatment by the procedure of Example 1 c . Butylene oxide and trimethylsilylethoxycarbonyl chloride were added to a dichloromethane suspension of Compound R 3 , followed by stirring for 2 hours. The solvent was distilled off, and a powder which separated out upon addition of hexane was collected by filtration to give Compound 45a , a diphenylmethyl ester of the subject compound. This product was treated by the procedure of Example 2 b to give the subject Compound 45b . Using Compound R 3 and 1 benzyloxycarbonylaminocyclohexanecarboxylic acid, a treatment was carried out by the procedure of Example 1 a to give diphenylmethyl 2 4S 4 1 benzyloxycarbonylaminocyclohexylcarbonylamino 3 oxo 2 isoxazolidinyl 5 oxo 2 tetrahydrofurancarboxylate Compound 46a . This product was treated by the procedure of Example 2 b to give the subject Compound 46b . Using Compound R 3 and 3 2,6 dichlorophenyl 5 methyl 4 isoxazolylcarbonyl chloride, there was obtained Compound 47a , a diphenylmethyl ester of the subject Compound 47b , by the procedure of Example 5. This product was treated by the procedure of Example 1 c to give the subject Compound 47b . Using Compound 14a and 2 pyridinethiol , there was obtained Compound 48a , a diphenylmethyl ester of the subject Compound 48b , by the procedure of Example 15, and then, there was formed the subject Compound 48b . Using Compound 14a and 4 pyridylmethanethiol, there was obtained Compound 49a , a diphenylmethyl ester of the subject Compound 49b , by the procedure of Example 15, and then, there was formed the subject Compound 49b . Using Compound 14a and 2 pyrimidinethiol, there was obtained Compound 50a , a diphenylmethyl ester of the subject Compound 50b , by the procedure of Example 15, and then, there was formed the subject Compound 50b . Using Compound 14a and E 2 acetamidovinylthiol silver salt, there was obtained Compound 51a , a diphenylmethyl ester of the subject Compound 51b , by the procedure of Example 15, and then, there was formed the subject Compound 51b Using Compound R 3 and cyclopropanecarboxylic acid, there was obtained Compound 52a , a diphenylmethyl ester of the subject Compound 52b , by the procedure of Example 1 a , and then, there was formed the subject Compound 52b by the procedure of Example 2 b . Using Compound R 3 and methyl oxalyl chloride, there was obtained Compound 53a , a dimethyl ester of the subject Compound 53b , by the procedure of Example 2 b , and then, there was formed the subject Compound 53b by the procedure of Example 2 b . Compound R 3 was suspended in tetrahydrofuran, and water and 5 palladium carbon were added to the suspension, followed by stirring under ice cooling and under a stream of hydrogen. After the catalyst was filtered off, the filtrate was washed with water, and the filtrate and washings were combined and concentrated under reduced pressure. The concentrate was washed with ethyl acetate, and the aqueous layer was separated out and admixed, under ice cooling with stirring, with sodium hydrogencarbonate and a tetrahydrofuran solution of acryloyl chloride. The reaction solution was washed with ethyl acetate, and the aqueous layer was concentrated. The concentrate was chromatographed on a column of HP 20, and the fraction eluted with water was lyophilized to give the subject Compound 54 . Using Compound 14a and 2 chloro 4 pyridinethiol, there was obtained Compound 55a , a diphenylmethyl ester of the subject Compound 55b , by the procedure of Example 15, and then, there was formed the subject Compound 55b . Using Compound R 3 and 2 acetamido 5 oxo 2 tetrahydrofurancarboxylate, there was obtained Compound 56a , a diphenylmethyl ester of the subject Compound 56b , by the procedure of Example 1 a , and then, there was formed the subject Compound 56b by the procedure of Example 2 b . Using Compound R 3 and 1 pyrazolylacetic acid, there was obtained Compound 57a , a diphenylmethyl ester of the subject Compound 57b , by the procedure of Example 1 a , and then, there was formed the subject Compound 57b by the procedure of Example 2 b . Using Compound R 3 and 2 5 amino 1,2,4 thidiazole 3 yl Z 2 ethoxyiminoacetic acid, there was obtained Compound 58a , a diphenylmethyl ester of the subject Compound 58b , by the procedure of Example 1 a , and then, there was formed the subject Compound 58b by the procedure of Example 1 c . Using Compound 14a and 3 pyridazinethiol lithium salt, there was obtained Compound 59a , a diphenylmethyl ester of the subject Compound 59b , by the procedure of Example 15, and then, there was formed the subject Compound 59b . Using Compound R 3 and dichloroacetyl chloride, there was obtained Compound 60a , a diphenylmethyl ester of the subject Compound 60b , by the procedure of Example 14, and then, there was formed the subject Compound 60b . Using Compound R 3 and 2R,3S 2 4 ethyl 2,3 dioxo 1 piperazinecarboxamido 3 hydroxybutyric acid, there was obtained Compound 61a , a diphenylmethyl ester of the subject Compound 61b , through a reaction analogous to Example 1 a , and there was formed the subject Compound 61b through catalytic reduction with use of palladium black. Using Compound 14 a and 5 trifluoromethyl 1,3,4 thiadiazole 2 thiol, there was obtained Compound 62a , a diphenylmethyl ester of the subject Compound 62b , by the procedure of Example 15, and then, there was formed the subject Compound 62b . Using Compound 14a and 1 ethoxy hydroxy phosphinylmethyl 1H tetrazole 5 thiol O,S disodium salt, there was obtained Compound 63a , a diphenylmethyl ester of the subject Compound 63b , by the procedure of Example 15, and then, there was formed the subject Compound 63b . Using Compound 14a and 5 2 diethoxyphosphinylethylthio 1,3,4 thiadiazole 2 thiol, there was obtained Compound 64a , a diphenylmethyl ester of the subject Compound 64b , by the procedure of Example 15, and then, there was formed the subject Compound 64b . Using Compound 14a and 1 dimethylamino 1H tetrazole 5 thiol, there was obtained Compound 65a , a diphenylmethyl ester of the subject Compound 65b , by the procedure of Example 15, and then, there was formed the subject Compound 65b . Using Compound 14 a and 4,5 dimethyl 2 thiazolethiol, there was obtained Compound 66a , a diphenylmethyl ester of the subject Compound 66b , by the procedure of Example 15, and then, there was formed the subject Compound 66b . Using Compound 14a and 4,5 dimethyl 2 oxazolethiol, there was obtained Compound 67a , a diphenylmethyl ester of the subject Compound 67b , by the procedure of Example 15, and then, there was formed the subject Compound 67b . Using Compound 14a and 5 methoxymethyl 1,3,4 thiadiazole 2 thiol, there was obtained Compound 68a , a diphenylmethyl ester of the subject Compound 68b , by the procedure of Example 15, and then, there was formed the subject Compound 68b . Using Compound 14a and 5 methylsulfonylmethyl 1,3,4 thiadiazole 2 thiol, there was obtained Compound 69a , a diphenylmethyl ester of the subject Compound 69a , by the procedure of Example 15, and then, there was formed the subject Compound 69b . Using Compound 14a and 4 ethyl 4H 1,2,4 triazole 3 thiol, there was obtained Compound 70a , a diphenylmethyl ester of the subject Compound 70b , by the procedure of Example 15, and then, there was formed the subject Compound 70b . Using Compound 14a and sodium 2 mercapto 1,3,4 thiadiazol 5 ylacetate, there was obtained Compound 71a , a diphenylmethyl ester of the subject Compound 71b , by the procedure of Example 15, and then, there was formed the subject Compound 71b . Using Compound 14a and 1 2 hydroxyethyl 1H tetrazole 5 thiol, there was obtained Compound 72a , a diphenylmethyl ester of the subject Compound 72b , by a the procedure of Example 15, and then, there was formed the subject Compound 72b . Using Compound 14a and 1 3 dimethylaminopropyl 1H tetrazole 5 thiol, there was obtained Compound 73a , a diphenylmethyl ester of the subject Compound 73b , by the procedure of Example 15, and then, there was formed the subject Compound 73b . Using Compound R 3 and 2 benzyloxycarbonylamino 3 sulfamoylpropionic acid, there was obtained Compound 74a , a diphenylmethyl ester of the subject Compound 74b , through a reaction analogous to Example 1 a , and then, there was formed the subject Compound 74b through catalytic reduction with use of palladium balck as a catalyst. Using Compound R 3 and 4 cyano 3 hydroxy 5 isothiazolylacetic acid, there was obtained Compound 75a , a diphenylmethyl ester of the subject Compound 75b , through a reaction analogous to Example 1 a , and then there was obtained the subject Compound 75b . Using Compound R 3 and 2 2 chloroacetamido 4 thiazolyl 2 oxoacetic acid, there was obtained diphenylmethyl 4S 2 4 2 2 chloroacetamido 4 thiazolyl 2 oxoacetamido 3 oxo 2 isoxazolidinyl 5 oxo 2 tetrahydrofurancarboxylate Compound 76a through a reaction analogous to Example 1, and after this product was converted into Compound 76b , a diphenylmethyl ester of the subject Compound 76c , there was formed the subject Compound 76c . Using Compound R 3 and 2 2 chloroacetamido 4 thiazolyl Z 2 isopropoxyiminoacetic acid, there was obtained diphenylmethyl 2 4S 4 2 2 chloroacetamido 4 thiazolyl Z 2 isopropoxyiminoacetamido 3 oxo 2 isoxazolidinyl 5 oxo 2 tetrahydrofurancarboxylate Compound 77a through a reaction analogous to Example 1, and after this product was converted into Compound 77b , a diphenylmethyl ester of the subject Compound 77c , there was obtained the subject Compound 77c . Compound R 3 and trifluoroacetic anhydride were stirred in dichloromethane under ice cooling, and the reaction solution was poured into water, followed by extraction with ethyl acetate. The organic layer was washed with aqueous sodium hydrogencarbonate solution, water and saturated aqueous sodium chloride solution, successively, and dried MgSO₄ . The solvent was distilled off, and the residue was chromatographed on a column of silica gel to give Compound 78a , a diphenylmethyl ester of the subject Compound 78b and then, a reaction and treatment analogous to Example 2 b yielded the subject Compound 78b . Using Compound R 3 and 2 2 chloroacetamido 4 thiazolyl Z 2 1 methyl 1 4 nitrobenzyloxycarbonyl ethoxyimino acetic acid, there was obtained Compound 79a by the procedure of Example 1 a . Compound 79a was treated by the procedure of Example 1 b , there was obtained Compound 79b . Compound 79b was treated in accordance with Example 1 c to give Compound 79c . Compound 79c was treated the procedure of Example 2 b to give the subject compound 79d . A solution of Compound R 3 in N,N dimethylformamide was added to a solution of 2 2 tritylamino 4 thiazolyl Z 2 trityloxyimino acetic acid 2 benzothiazolylthio ester in tetrahydrofuran, followed by stirring at room temperature for 16 hours. The reaction solution was diluted with ethyl acetate, washed with aqueous sodium hydrogencarbonate solution and water, successively, and dried Na₂SO₄ . Then, the solvent was distilled off, and the residue was chromatographed on a column of silica gel to give Compound 80a . Formic acid 98 was added to a dichloromethane solution of Compound 80a , followed by stirring at room temperature for 1 hour. After the solvent was distilled off under reduced pressure, the residue was dissolved in dichloromethane, and the solution was shaken after the addition of phosphate buffer of pH 7.0 10 mℓ containing sodium hydrogencarbonate 400 mg , followed by separating the aqueous layer. The organic layer was further extracted with a phosphate buffer of pH 7.0 5 mℓ , and the aqueous layers were combined and concentrated under reduced pressure. The concentrate was chromatographed on a column of HP 20, followed by lyophilization to give the subject Compound 80b . Using Compound R 3 and isobutyl chlorocarbonate, there was obtained Compound 81a by the procedure of Example 23 a . Compound 81a was treated by the procedure of Example 23 b to give the subject Compound 81b . Using Compound R 3 , methyl chlorocarbonate and N 4 nitrobenzyloxycarbonyl glycine, there was obtained the subject Compound 82 by the procedure of Example 24 a . Using Compound R 3 , methyl chlorocarbonate and N 2,2,2 trichloroethoxycarbonyl phenylglycine, there was obtained the subject Compound 83 by the procedure of Example 24 a . Using Compound R 3 and N benzyloxycarbonyl D phenylglycine, there was obtained Compound 84a by the procedure of Example 1 a . Compound 84a was treated by the procedure of Example 2 b to give the subject Compound 84b . Using Compound R 3 and N 4 methoxybenzyloxycarbonyl L phenylglycine, there was obtained Compound 85a by the procedure of Example 1 a . Compound 85a was treated by the procedure of Example 1 c to give the subject Compound 85b . Using Compound R 3 and N 4 methoxybenzyloxycarbonyl D phenylglycine, there was obtained Compound 86a by the procedure of Example 1 a . Compound 86a was treated by the procedure of Example 1 c to give the subject Compound 86b . Using Compound R 3 and S mandelic acid, there was obtained Compound 87a by the procedure of Example 1 a . Compound 87a was treated by the procedure of Example 2 b to give the subject Compound 87b . Using Compound R 3 and R mandelic acid, there was obtained Compound 88a , a diphenylmethyl ester of the subject Compound 88b , by the procedure of Example 87, and then, there was formed the subject Compound 88b . Using Compound R 3 and 4 chloro DL mandelic acid, there was obtained Compound 89a , a diphenylmethyl ester of the subject Compound 89b , by the procedure of Example 87, and then, there was formed the subject Compound 89b . Using Compound R 3 and 4 hydroxy DL mandelic acid, there was obtained Compound 90a , a diphenylmethyl ester of the subject Compound 90b , by the procedure of Example 87, and then, there was formed the subject Compound 90b . Using Compound R 3 and DL lactic acid, there was obtained Compound 91a , a diphenylmethyl ester of the subject Compound 91b , by the procedure of Example 87, and then, there was formed the subject Compound 91b . Using Compound R 3 and monodiphenylmethyl DL phenylmalonate, there was obtained Compound 92a , a bis diphenylmethyl ester of the subject Compound 92b , by the procedure of Example 87, and then, there was formed the subject Compound 92b . Using Compound R 3 and benzyloxycarbonyl chloride, there was obtained Compound 93a , a diphenylmethyl ester of the subject Compound 93b , by the procedure of Example 5, and then, there was formed the subject Compound 93b . Using Compound R 3 and pyruvic acid, there was obtained Compound 94a , a diphenylmethyl ester of the subject Compound 94b , by the procedure of Example 87, and then, there was formed the subject Compound 94b . Using Compound 88b and chloromethyl pivalate, there was obtained the subject Compound 95 by the procedure of Example 28 c . Molecular sieves 4A was added to a dichloromethane solution of Compound R 3 and 4 nitrobenzaldehyde, followed by stirring at room temperature for 8 hours. Molecular sieves was filtered off, and the filtrate was concentrated to dryness under reduced pressure. Ether was added to the residue, which was converted into powder to give the subject Compound 96 . Using Compound 14a and 3 chloro 6 pyridazinethiol sodium salt, there was obtained Compound 97a , a diphenylmethyl ester of the subject Compound 97b , by the procedure of Example 15, and then, there was formed the subject Compound 97b . Using Compound R 3 and phenylthioacetic acid, there was obtained Compound 98a , a diphenylmethyl ester of the subject Compound 98b , by the procedure of Example 1 a , and then, there was formed the subject Compound 98b by the procedure of Example 1 c . Using Compound 14a and potassium ethylxanthate, there was obtained Compound 99a , a diphenylmethyl ester of the subject Compound 99b , by the procedure of Example 15, and then, there was formed the subject Compound 99b . Below are given the reaction conditions of Examples 38 to 99 as well as the yields and typical physico chemical properties of the compounds obtained. a Compound R 3 was dissolved in a solvent mix of ethyl acetate anaphosphate buffer pH 7.0 , with 10 palladium carbon added. The resulting solution was stirred in hydrogen stream under ice cooling for 1.5 hours. After catalyst removal by filtration and water rinsing, the filtrate and the rinsing liquid were combined and the aqueous layer separated. Tetrahydrofuran was added to the aqueous layer, with sodium bicarbonate and 2 2 chloroacetamido 4 thiazolyl Z 2 ethoxyiminoacetyl chloride hydrochloride added the resulting solution was stirred under ice cooling for 30 minutes. Tetrahydrofuran was vaporized under reduced pressure and the resulting aqueous layer rinsed with ethyl acetate. b Tetrahydrofuran and sodium N methyldithiocarbamate were next added to the aqueous layer the resulting solution was stirred at room temperature for 30 minutes. Tetrahydrofuran was vaporized under reduced pressure. After rinsing with ethyl acetate, the resulting concentrate was subjected to column chromatography using HP 20. The fraction eluted with 10 ethanol, after concentration, was subjected to freeze drying, yielding Compound 100 . Compound 101 was obtained via reaction by a method analogous to Example 100, using Compound R 3 and 2 5 chloro 2 chloroacetamido 4 thiazolyl Z 2 methoxyiminoacetyl chloride hydrochloride. Compound 102a was obtained via reaction by a method analogous to Example 1 a , using Compound R 3 and 2 4 ethyl 2,3 dioxo 1 piperazinylcarboxamido 2 thienylacetic acid. Compound 102b was obtained via reaction on Compound 102a by a method analogous to Example 1 c . An aqueous solution of potassium isocyanate was added to an acetic solution of Compound R 3 , the obtained solution being stirred at room temperature for 2 hours. The reaction solution obtained was added to water and eluted with ethyl acetate. The organic layer, after rinsing with water, an aqueous solution of sodium bicarbonate and saturated saline solution, was in turn dried Na₂SO₄ . After the solvent was vaporized off, the residue was refined by column chromatography using silica gel, yielding Compound 103a . Compound 103b was obtained via reaction with Compound 103a by a method analogous to Example 2 b . Phenylisocyanate was added to a dichloromethane solution of Compound R 3 , and stirred at room temperature for 10 minutes. The solvent was then vaporized off. The residue was refined by column chromatography using silica gel, yielding Compound 104a . Compound 104b was obtained via reaction with Compound 104a by a method analogous to Example 2 b . Compound 105 was obtained by a method analogous to Example 100 a , using Compound R 3 and 2 pyridylacetyl chloride hydrochloride. Compound 106 was obtained by a method analogous to Example 100 a , using Compound R 3 and 4 chlorophenyl acetyl chloride. Compound 107 was obtained by a method analogous to Example 100 a , using Compound R 3 and 2 chloro 2 phenylacetyl chloride. A diphenylmethyl ester of Compound 108b Compound 108a was first obtained by a method analogous to Example 15, using Compound 14a and sodium 3 pyridinethiol, and then by a method analogous to Example 1 c . Diphenylmethyl ester of Compound 109b Compound 109a was obtained by a method analogous to Example 15, using Compound 14a and sodium 4 chlorophenylthiol, Compound 109b was then obtained. Compound 110a , a diphenylmethyl ester of Compound 110b , was obtained by a method analogous to Example 5, using Compound R 3 and 2 isopropylphenoxycarbonyl chloride, Compound 110b was then obtained by a method analogous to Example 2 b . A diphenylmethyl ester of Compound 111b Compound 111a was obtained by a method analogous to Example 1 a ,using Compound R 3 and difluoroacetic acid Compound 111b was then obtained by a method analogous to Example 2 b . Compound 112 was obtained by a method analogous to Example 100 a , using Compound R 3 and 3 chloropropionyl chloride. Compound 113 was obtained by a method analogous to Example 17, using Compound 14b and chloromethyl pivalate. Compound 114 was obtained by a method analogous to Example 17, using Compound 98b and chloromethyl pivalate. A diphenylmethyl ester of Compound 115b Compound 115a was obtained by a method similar to that shown in Example 5, using Compound R 3 and propyonyl chloride Compound 115b was then obtained by a method analogous to Example 2 b . Compound 116 was obtained by a method analogous to Example 17, using Compound 93b and chloromethyl pivalate. Compound 116 was dissolved in ethyl acetate with 5 palladium carbon added. The solution obtained was stirred in hydrogen stream under ice cooling for 1 hour. After the catalyst was removed by filtration, DMA and bromoacetyl bromide were added and the solution stirred under ice cooling for 0.5 hour. The organic layer, after rinsing with water, was dried Na₂SO₄ to vaporize off the solvent. The residue was refined by column chromatography using silica gel, yielding Compound 117 . Compound 116 was subjected to catalytic reduction by a method analogous to Example 117. After the catalyst was removed by filtration, the filtrate was concentrated to dryness. The residue obtained was dissolved in DMF sorbic acid, DCC and HOBT were then added and the solution stirred at room temperature for 1 hour. Ethyl acetate was added to the reaction mixture obtained, the crystals separated being removed by filtration. The organic layer, after rinsing with water, was dried Na₂SO₄ . The solvent was vaporized off. The residue was refined by column chromatography using silica gel, yielding Compound 118 . Compound 119 was obtained by a method analogous to of Example 117, using Compound 116 and thienylacetyl chloride. Hereinafter are listed the reaction conditions, yields and physico chemical properties of the compounds produced in Examples 100 to 119. Compound 116 was subjected to catalytic reduction by a method analogous to Example 117. After removing the catalyst by filtration, to the filtrate were added 1 hexamethyleneiminecarboxyaldehyde dimethylacetal and a catalytic amount of boron trifluoride under ice cooling and the mixture was stirred at room temperature for 20 hours. The solvent was removed by evaporation under reduced pressure, and then the residue was subjected to purification by column chromatography using Florisil to give the subject Compound 120 . To a dimethylformamide solution of Compound R 3 was added tert butyldimethylsilyl chloride and triethylamine, and then the mixture was stirred at room temperature for one hour. The reaction solution was added to water ethyl acetate and the mixture was shaken. The organic layer was recovered, washed with water and dried Na₂SO₄ . The solvent was removed by evaporation under reduced pressure to give the subject Compound 121 . Using Compound R 3 and tert butyl diphenylsilyl chloride, there was obtained the subject Compound 122 by the procedure of Example 121. To a dimethylformamide solution of Compound R 3 was added diphenyl phosphorochloridate under ice cooling, and the mixture was stirred for one hour. The reaction solution was added to water, and the mixture was subjected to extraction with ethyl acetate. The ethyl acetate layer was washed with water and then dried Na₂SO₄ . The solvent was removed by evaporation under reduced pressure, and then the residue was subjected to purification by silica gel column chromatography to give Compound 123a , a diphenylmethyl ester of the subject Compound 123b . Then, the thus obtained Compound 123a was treated by the procedure of Example 2 b to give the subject Compound 123b . Using Compound R 3 and dimethyl phosphorochloridate, there was obtained the subject Compound 124 by the procedure of Example 123. To a dichloromethane solution of Compound R 3 were added ethanesulfonylchloride and triethylamine under ice cooling. The mixture was stirred at 0 C for 30 minutes, and then at room temperature for 90 minutes. The reaction mixture was washed with water and then dried Na₂SO₄ . The solvent was removed by evaporation under reduced pressure, and then the residue was subjected to purification by silica gel chromatography to give Compound 125a , a diphenyl ester of the subject Compound 125b . Then, the thus obtained Compound 125a was treated by the procedure of Example 2 b to give the subject Compound 125b . Using Compound R 3 and 2 chloroethanesulfonyl chloride, there was obtained the subject Compound 126 by the procedure of Example 125 and then by the procedure of Example 1 c . To the suspension of Compound 5b in dichloromethane was added trimethylacetyl chloride at 0 C, and then the mixture was stirred at 0 C for one hour. To the resultant was added aniline, and then the mixture was stirred at room temperature for one hour. The reaction mixture was washed with water and dried Na₂SO₄ . The solvent was removed by evaporation under reduced pressure, and the residue was subjected to purification by column chromatography using Florisil to give Compound 127 as a colourless oily product. Using Compound 93b and aniline, there was obtained the subject Compound 128 as colorless crystals by the procedure of Example 127. Using Compound 93b and pyrrolidine, thus was obtained the subject Compound 129 as a colorless oily product by the procedure of Example 127. Using Compound 5b and pyrrolidine, there was obtained the subject Compound 130 as acolorless oily product by the procedure of Example 127. Using Compound 5b and propylamine, there was obtained the subject Compound 130 as a colorless oily product by the procedure of Example 127. Using Compound R 3 and α benzyl N carbobenzoxy D glutamate, there was obtained the subject Compound 132 by the procedure of Example 1 a and then by the procedure of Example 2 b . Using Compound R 3 and 2 hydroxyisobutyric acid, there was obtained the subject Compound 133 by the procedure of Example 1 a and then by the procedure of Example 2 b . Below are given the reaction conditions of Examples 120 to 133 as well as the yields and typical physico chemical properties of the compounds obtained.