# Identification of materials using their complex dielectric response.

## Abstract
The invention relates to a method and apparatus for evaluating non homogenous material having a high dielectric element by sensing the conductance and or capacitance properties of a material 60,S by passing it between a pair of plates 74, 76 102, 104 which form part of a capacitance responsive electrical network. An A.C. voltage is applied across the plates 74, 76 102, 104 at a frequency which prior tests have indicated will produce a given conductance or capacitance reading for a material of interest.

## Claims
C L A I M S 1. A method of evaluating non homogenous materials having a high dielectric element, including the steps of a sensing the conductance property of the material 60 S by passing it between two plates 74, 76 102, iso4 which form part of a capacitive responsive electrical network, and b applying an A.C.voltage across the two plates 74, 76 102, 104 at a frequency which prior tests indicate will produce a relatively high conductance reading for the material of interest. 2. A method according to Claim 1, wherein the frequency has a value between 10 hertz and 150 kilohertz. 3. A method according to claim 1 or claim 2, including the step of determining whether the conductance reading caused by the material 60,S under test is above I x 10 2 nanomhos. 4. A method according to any of claims 1 to 3, including the steps of applying the AeC.voltage at plural sequential frequencies of different value to develop a signature, and comparing such signature to that obtained from subsequent samples introduced between the two plates 74, 76 102,104 . 5. A method according to any of claims 1 to 4, including the step of obtaining the true resistive and capacitive components of the loss caused by introdúcing the material 60,S between the two plates 74, 76 102,104 . 6. A method according to any of claims 1 to 5, including the step of obtaining data on the rate of change in conductance and the magnitude of the conductance when she rate of change drops to zero to obtain information on volume concentration of the high dielectric element and the amount within the sample 60,s . 7. A method according to any of claims 1 to 6, wherein the frequency has a value between 20 to 150 kilohertz, to detect concealed explosives. 8. Apparatus for identifying non homogenous materials having a high dielectric element, the apparatus comprising capacitive means 58 74,76 102,104 for producing a capacitive output and for producing a change in capacitance when a high dielectric is placed in physical association therewith, capacitive responsive means 54, 82, 96, 118 associated with the capacitive means 58 74, 76 102, 104 112 for evaluating the change of capacitance therin, and frequency generating means 52, 72, 90, 110 connected across the capacitive means 58 74, 76 102, 104 112 for producing an electrical output signal reflecting capacitive value of the capacitive means 58 74, 76 102, 104 112 . 9. Apparatus as set forth in claim 8, wherein the capacitive means 58 74, 76 102, 104 112 includes two spaced plates 74,76 102,104 which have a capacitance value and which are spaced sufficiently apart to permit a sample 60,S to be identified to be passed therebetween. 10. Apparatus according to claim 8 or claim 9, wherein the capacitance responsive means 54 includes a timing circuit 54 to which the capacitive means 58 is connected. 11. Apparatus according to any of claims 8 to 10, wherein an alarm means 70,80 is connected in circuit with the capacitive response means 54, 82 and is ac iw ted when conductance change value from the capacitive means 58 74, 76 exceeds a predetermined value. 12. Apparatus according to any of claims 8 to 11, wherein, the capacitive response means includes a tone decoder 68 . 13. Apparatus according to any of claims 8 to 11, wherein, the capacitive response means includes detector and counter means t82 and 84 . 14. Apparatus according to any of claims 8 to 11, wherein, the capacitive response means includes a balanced bridge circuit hazing a detector 96 in the neutral arm and the spaced plates 102,104 are contained in one of the bridge arms and variable resistance 98 and capacitive 100 elements are contained in the adjacent bridge arm. 15. Apparatus for identifying non homogenous materials having a high dielectric element, the apparatus comprising a capacitive means 58 74,76 102,104 112 for producing a conductive output and for producing a change in conductance when a high dielectric is placed in physical association therewith b capacitive responsive mean. 54, 82 96, 118 associated with the capacitive elements for evaluating the change of conductance from the capacitive means 58 74, 76 102, 104 112 and c c frequency generating means 52, 72, 90, 110 connected across the capacitor means 58 74, 76 102, 104 112 for producing an electrical output signal reflecting conductive value of the capacitive means. 16. Apparatus as set forth in claim 15, wherein a capacitive responsive means 54, 82, 96 116 is associated with the capacitive elements for evaluating the change of capacitance from the capacitor means 58 74,76 102,104 112 , and b the frequency generating means 52,72, 93, 110 also produces an electrical output signal reflecting the capacitive value of the capacitive means. 17. Apparatus as set forth in cla.tm 15, wherein a the capacitive means 102, 104 112 is connected in a balanced bridge circuit b detector means 96 is connected in parallel therewith, and c the detector means includes computation means for obtaining sequential data and analyzing it with respect to previously stored data. 18. Apparatus for identifying nor homogenous materials having a high dielectric element, the apparatus comprising a capacitive means for producing a capacitive output and for producing a change in capacitance when a high dielectric is placed in physical associatinn therewith, said capacitive means including at least two capacitive elements 122,114 connected in series b capacitive response means associated with said capacitive elements 112,114 for evaluating the change of capacitance from the capacitive means, said capacitive response means including a detector 118 means and voltage means 116 for converting current generated by said capacitive means 112,114 into an output voltage connected between said capacitive elements 112,114 and c frequency generating means 110 connected across said capacitive means for producing a balanced electrical output signal reflecting capacitive value of said capacitive means. 19. Apparatus as set forth in claim 18, where. sand capacitive means includes three spaced plates having a guard ring circumferentially positioned on the rnidplate, said midplate being connected to said v ltage means for converting current generated by said capacitive means into an output voltage. 20. Apparatus according to claim 19 or claim 19, wherein said capacitive means is connected in a balanced bridge circuit, said voltage means 116 for coverting current generated by said capacitive means into an output voltage is connected between said capacitive elements 112,114 and said detector 118 means is connected to said voltage 116 means,said detector means 118 including Fourier transform analysis means for analyzing phase and magnitude data generated by said capacitive means.

## Description
IDENTIFICATION OF MATERIALS USING THEIR COMPLEX DIELECTRIC RESPONSE. This invention relates to testing of materials, particularly materials which are non homogenous. These materials are mixtures of two or more component materials, each of which has a very different electrical conductivity and dielectric constant.Materials so composed, because of their electrical properties, are often termed non homogenous. Some examples of these kinds of materials are explosives, which are composed of the explosive molecule with high dielectric constant and an inert filler such as sawdust which has a comparatively low dielectric constant another example is the mixture of water and soil, which may appear uniform in consistency, yet water and soil have clearly different electrical characteristics. Further examples are water and suspended solids or even marbleized meat where the component elements in this case are lean muscle tissue and fatty tissue, There has been a long standing need for a rapid non destructive test of non homogenous materials that will readily identify them of give their properties.Two immediate applications for such tests are in the field of letter bomb detection and in soil analysis. With respect to security detection, the ability to package explosives in small envelopes, and s nd them though the mail has presented a long standing security problem. With respect to soil analysis, there is a need for a raid so 1 test in the field, which will give information regarding moisture content or mechanical properties. It has been fox nod that both of these materials have distinct conductive ch2racteristics which are nonlinear over given frequency ranges. This information can be used to identify and analyze such materials. Accordingly, this invention is directed to providing a non destructive test for non homogenous materials, a constituent of which has a high dielectric property, the method comprising the steps of a sensing the conductance property of the material by passing it between two plates which form part of a capacitive responsive electrical network, and b applying an A.C.voltage across the two plates at a frequency which prior tests indicate will produce a relatively high conductance reading for the material of interest. It further provides an electronic test apparatus wherein the electrical properties of the material are used to give information with regard to its type and composition. 2 A feature of this invention is the use of the conductive properties of ron homtgenous materials to provide a means for testing. A still further feature of thfs invention is the ability to test materials ia a closed container. Another feature of this invention is the provision of a testing capability which will identify explosives in packages such a letters. A still further I A still further feaire of this invention is to provide a testing technique which gives almost instantaneous readings and permits scanning of many objects at a very high rat Another feature of this device is the use of conductive curve data based on frequency response to d stinguish non homogenous types of material having high dielectric elements from other types of material. Another feature ol this invention is the use o conductive level response and slope of the conductive cr l e tv distinguish various types of material, and to g re information on concentration of the high dielectric element within the composition. A still further feature of this invention is to provide apparatus Which will permit determination of the moisture content in non homogenous materials, such soils. Figure 1 shows conductive versus frequency crave and illustrates the conductance response of several explosives as compared to other materials. Figure 2 is a plot of conductance versus frequency for several explosives and ron explosive ncserial which illustrates the higher conductance level i explosives. Figure 3 is a capacitance versus frequency diagram showing curves for several explosives and non e losives. Figure 4 is a vector diagram for a typical ccllcitive component which shows both the capacitive and resistive components, both of which are of interest. Figure 5 is a graph of a typical curve for e osives showing the rate of change in the conductance clone with respect to concentration of explosives. Figure 6 illustrates a circuit for detecting change in conductance which uses a timing circuit and a bne decoder0 Figure 7 illustrates another type of circuit th can determine change in conductance and which uses a lector and a counter circuit. Figure 8 is a block diagram of a bridge circuit which can be used to determine conductance change. Figure 9 is a block diagram of a further bridge circuit wnic1l can be used to determine conductance chare. Figures 1 and 2 show co.nductance versus free curves for envelopes containing explosives and non explosive materials. The curves were obtained by placing an envelope between two flat spaced plates which form a capacitive elemetit and are part of a conductallce sensitive electronic circuit. In Figure 1, the curve 1t is for the explosive compound PETN and shows a capacitive value for frequencies to fifty kilohertz. Note that the conductance rises sharply for PETN to a value of .3 nanomhos at which point it levels out. The solid line 12 is for an envelope containing the explosive Compound C which has a higher conductance level than the two dashed lines 14, 16 which are respectively the curves for envelopes containing plexiglass and paper. Figure 2 also shows conductance vs. frequency curves for explosive substances as a solid curve and non explosive substances as dashed curves. It will be noted that the scale of the conductance values on this graph is greater than that of the graph of Figure 1.This scale more clearly shows the higher conductive level for the explosive Compound C shown in line 18, and for dynamite 19. Curve 20 is for plexiglass within envelope and is lower than curves 18 and 19. Curve 22 has a lower conductance yet, and it obtained for an envelope which contains both paper and coins. Curve 24 is the curve for a plain envelope with paper, and curve 26 is obtained for an envelope which contains paper and two credit cards. These figures show the large conductance change of explosive materials as a function of frequency, particularly with respect to PETN and dynami4ve. With respect to Compound C, it will also be noted that there is large conductance change with frequency for this n ate ial in the lower frequency range as illustrated in Figure 0 te the contrary, non explosive substances show a much lower change in conductance for change in frequency Tile explosive materials are a nixtwre of a binder with an explosive. The explosive has very high dielectric properties and has a large non linear loss component over a frequency range up to approximately fifteen kilohertz. The capacitive values are proportional to the permitivity of the sample inserted between the plates.As seen in Figure 3, the plots of capacitance versus frequency from approximately one hundred hertz to fifty kilohertz show that the explosives shown in solid line have a permitivity which has some frequency dependence, and that the capacitance is much larger in value than that for non explosive samples shown in dotted outline.The curve for the explosive PETN is shown at 28, and the curve for Compound C is shown at 30. Curves 32 and 34 respectively show the results obtained for envelopes containing plexiglass alone and for an envelope containing two credit cards. The significance of this property of nonhomogenous materials having a high dielectric element is illustrated in igure 4. The electrical vector 36 representing the argue loss across the plates of the capacitor has a capacitive component 40 and a resistive component 38. The capacitive component contains information with respect to the dielectric constant. The resistive component 38 provides basic information with respect to the resistive value of the loss. D everent me2suremen s are obtained for each frequency applied in a range from up to fifty kilohertz for a given sample which is placed between the plates of the c ctve clerent. lfi4t the resistive component a value cari be found for the resistance at each frequency.The conductance is merely a reciprocal of this value. Explosive materials have been found to have a non Dinear conductance curve. They are a mixture of the unstable explosive compound having a high dielectric constant, and an inert filler such as sawdust which does not have such property. The conductance curve for each type of explosive is distinctive. In Figure 5, the variation in conductance as plotted against the log value of frequency produces a somewhat S shaped curve. Factors which are of interest are the rate at which the conductance increases with frequency, and the point at which the conductance reaches a maximum. The rate of change of these curves is a function of the volume concentration of the high dielectric material explosive in the filler. The magnitude of the curve where the rate of change becomes zero is related to the amount of high dielectric.property material, as weli as its volume concentration. The lower section 42 of the curve shown inFigure 5 has a gradual rise to the middle portion 44 and a leveling out of the curve at 46. Midportion 44 of the curve between the dashed lines 48 and 50 shows the rate of change of conductance with frequency.This portion of the curve is related to the concentration of the dielectric element in the composition. The leveling out point of the curve at the upper portion of 46 is related to both the volume concentration and the amount of material. It has been found that each type of material has its own distinctive conductance curve, nc therefore different types of material can be distinguished one from aiiothr after various sets of reference curves have been Obt,ffifld These distinctive conductance curves or signatures make it possible to scan a package such as an envelope without opening it, and to specifically identify both the amount and type of material within the envelope or package. There are a number of different electrical circuits that can be used to take advantage of the conductive characteristics of the non homogenous dielectric containing materials. One such circuit is shown in Figure 6. This circuit is expressly directed toward examining letters for those that might contain explosives. An input line 52 is connected in parallel to a timing circuit 54 and with a line containing a resistance 56 and a capacitive element 58. The capacitive element 58 consists of two parallel spaced plates between which a closed letter 60 is passed. The R C circuit formed by the resistance 56 and the capacitive element 58 affect the timing circuit 54 when there is a change in value of the capacitive element 58. The introduction of a letter 60 containing a high dielectric material does this. Inasmuch as the capacitive element dots not represent a pure conductance, the equivalent circuit of this element is a capacitance in parallel with a resistor. The voltage component would be essentially as shown in Figure 4, in which the dominant term for the vector is the capacitive component. The explosive causes a large change in the conductive value and therefore changes the frequency output of the timing circuit 54. When the plates of capacitive element 58 do not have an object between them th timer frequency is a certain given value. This output is fed through the resistive network 62 and C4 ad is coupled through capacitor 66 to the tone decoder. The tone decoder is tuned to this frequency which is represented asfO. When the two frequencies are ie tune the tone decoder output is high. However, when a material containing a high dielectric type substance explosive is inserted between the plates, the capacitance of the element 58 changes. This is because of the change in permitivity caused by the high dielectric material. Therefore, since the equivalent circuit represents a capacitance and resistance in parallel, vector measurements to determine both the capacitive and resistive components Figure4 are of interest. The accurate measurement of the resistive component, which is the reciprocal Or conductance will give a conductance value. Since the charging time for the capacitive 58 of the R C network of the timing circuit changes, the output of the timing circuit changes also. The magnitude of this difference is large enough to exceed the band width of the tone decoder. The tone decoder output consequently is lowered, and the alarm circuit 70 which is made to sense such changes is activated. The values can be selected so that the sensitivity of the circuit can be changed to suit the items being scanned. The given circuit can readily be varied if desired by varying the band width of the decoder 68 The frequency applied to the circuit through line 52 will be between thirty to fifty kilohertz for explosives. This can be seen by referring to Figures 1 to 3, the higher conductive and capacitive reaction of explosives is readily distinguishable. The circuit is also fast acting. For example, when it is used as a letter bomb detector on the order of from 700 to 1000 pieces can be scanned per minute. If identification of the explosive were required, a signature curve would have to be generated by applying a plural number of frequencies. The simple letter bomb detector operates on a single frequency in which the conductance level or capacitance change loss is used to determine presence of any explosive since all conductance readings will be high. Construction of the plates of the capacitive element 58 when used as a letter bomb detector can be almost envelope size. The plates used were thin metal three inches wide and eleven inches long and were parallel, spaced about half an inch apart. The phase angle of the frequency applied to the circuit with reference to the frequency applied across the capacitive element 58 is also Oj importance. They should be within one half a degree of being in phase or be corrected for such situation in order to get good accurate readings. It is further essential that a very stable fixed oscillator signal be used to get clear accurate readings. Another circuit arrangement is shown in Figure 7 for detecting high dielectric bearing substances.The periodic frequency generating source 72 is connected across a capacitive element having spaced plates 74, 76 which have an air gap 78 between them. The sample 80 generally indicated at S is moved between the plates and the change in capacitance will be picked up in the detector 82. Ordinarily, the current is allowed to charge te capacitive plates 74, 76 until the voltage drop across them exceeds a preselected amount. At that time the detector cuts off the current such that the charge between the plates decays to a given level which then causes the detector to connect the current source back into the line to recharge the capacitor. With this arrangement the detector acts as a periodic voltage generator giving a signal the period of which is dependent 1lpon the charging and discharging of the capacitive element. When the sample is inserted between the plates 74 and rjO the capacitance of the element is charted, and this in turn changes the output signal from the detector ciruit 82 to the counter 84. The counter 84 supplies a signal to the comparator 86, and if this difference is sufficiently large the comparator will pass a signal to the alarm circuit 88 which will be activated. The circuit is a fast acting circuit which is simple to construct. The drawback is that since the time constant of the capacitor is the product of both the resistance and capacitive elements, these component values cannot be readily determined. Figure 8 shows a bridge circuit which is driven by a sine wave generator 90. Bridge elements 92 and 94 are balanced impedances which are connected by a detector 96. The detector will be nulled when the bridge is balanced. Variable resistance 98 and variable capacitor 100 match impedances Z1 shown as element 92. They also represent the equivalent circuit of the capacitive element in the remaining arm of the bridge formed by the parallel spaced plates 102 and 104. The variable elements 98 and 100 effectively control the null position of the detector 96. A sample placed between the plates 102 and 104 can unbalance the bridge and rebalance is then obtained by adjusting elements 98 and 100. The adjustment gives the resistive and capacitive values introduced by the sample. Again, it should be noted that some attention must be paid to the in phase relationship of the applied periodic voltage. This circuit will be effective in obtaining signatures at various frequencies for the different types of explosive materials when identification is required. However, it should be noted that where frequencies are applied sequentially so as to obtain signature data, time must be allowed for manual or other manner of adjustment of the variable resistor and capacitor to rebalance the bridge. The circuit of Figure 8 can also be used as avealibrated bridge detector circuit. A known sample is placed between the plates 102 and 104 and will unbalance the bridge voltage. The quadrature components of the voltage unbalance are recorded and these are compared to known capacitive and resistance changes due to the sample. If these values do not agree with knawn values then the known values along with recorded values are used as a set of calibratinn numbers to correct further voltage readings to reflect true resistance and capacitive component data. The data obtained on donductance for the various frequencies for a given sample will provide a conductance signature which can b stored and then subsequently compared with an unknown sample which is placed between the capacitor plates 102 and 104. The detector circuit may include either a vector voltmeter, an AC voltmeter, a phase sensitive detector, or a digital computer. With respect to identifying the type of dielectric material or the explosive, it should be noted that a number of frequencies must be applied to the bridge to obtain active data and this can be compared with the stored signatures for the various types of materials previously obtained. A computer is used to perform, this function, inasmuch as there is a requirement for storage of the sequertially obtained data numbers at each frequency and comparing them with the previously stored data.The technique can either use a comparative approach, or could very readily be adapted to a signal level or sigaTh characteristic approach. With respect to the system, it has also been found that data can be obtained which will give the location of an explosive in a package merely by observing and changing capacitance and conductance of the package as it passes between the plates. A reference point such as velocity of the envelope in its lateral passage or a time base can be used to sense the point at which the capacitive or conductance values change.With correlation of this data, the position of the explosive in the envelope or package can readily be determined. As indicated above, the detector circuit may include phase sensitive detector or a digital computer,It is possible to achieve the same results, however, with the use of Fourier transform techniques, for example by implementing digital Fourier transform systems such as a digital computer,or by using analog Foiirier transform techniques, such as adoptive filters. Theirfii Eclual analog phase sensitive detectors for each frequency may be replaced by a broad band amplifier which, together with an accurate time base generator serving as a clock, make it possible to use theFourier transform technique. The data may then be studied at fixed time intervals and analyzed by standardFourier transform techniques in a computer, such as a mini computer. Advantageously, it is possible to employ, for this purpose, the same computer referred to above in connection with the identification of the type of dielectric material or explosive substance involved. Figure 9 shows a bridge circuit in which signal generator 110 is a multi frequency signal generator having a balanced output. The generator typically has a frequency range of about 100 hertz to 100 kilohertz. The signal generator is itself grounded and is connected across capacitive elements 112, 114.In the circuit illustrated in Figure 9, each capacitive element 112, 114 consists of two parallel spaced plates.In practicc, it is preferred to employ three parallel spaced plates, usually fabricated from the same material such as aluminum , or other suitable conductive material, with a guard ring cirumferen tially positioned on the midplate. This latter arrangement beiiaves as two capacitive elements arranged in series. Bridge elements 120, 122 are impedances which are connected in parallel to the capacitive elements 112, 1 1 4. The impedances 120, 122 may advantageously be precision metal film resistors and are matched as closely as possible to each other. The impedances 120, 122 are initially adjusted such that the potential value at points E and F sum to zero at all times. That is, if the potential at E is Ve and the potential at F is Vf, then the desired condition is achieved when Ve is equal to Vf. Amplifier 116 is connected between the capacitive elements 112, 114 and is capable of converting current from the bridge circuit into a voltage output which can be detected by detector 118. This may involve a phase detector system or a Fourier transform system as discussed above. Although it may be possible to employ a resistor in place of amplifier 116 to convert the circuit current into a voltage output, the use of the amplifier is preferred as it is very sensitive to current and does not apply a load to the circuit. In addition, the amplifier 116 aids in maintaining a h1nntlced potential at points H and G of the circuit.The capacitive elements 112, 114 are adjusted prior to placing any sample between the plates to give zero N e output. This may be achieved by movement o2 ce of the plates of the capacitive elements relative to a selected spacing of the plate or plates of the other capacitive element. The other capacitive olen ent is then used as the detecting element. Thus, it is possible to balance the bridge circuit initially in a single operation, and no further balancing is required after each test sample has been placed in the detecting capacitive element. Occasionally, the test sample may generate a large response when placed in the capacitive element such that the voltage output of the amplifier 116 exceeds its dynamic range. When this occurs, it is possible to employ the other capacitive element to bring the voltage output doen by nullifying at least a portion of the response so that the amplifier is again operating within its dynamic range. Preferably, this may be achieved by placing a substantially identical sample into the other capacitive element. Thus, for example, if one sample contains metal and the resulting voltage output exceeds the dynamic range of the amplifier, then insertion in the other capacitive element of a sample substantially identical to the first sample except for the metal will partially nullify the response output with respect to the common material and provide information in regard to the metal. This information can then be processed and compared with standard signatures using a computer as discussed above. The circuit illustrated in Figure 9 thus has the advantages that first it is necessary to balance the system only once for each test lun. Second, faster response times can be achieved due, in part, to the use of an amplifier which converts circuit current into an output voltage. Third, it is possible to employ greater plate spacing due to the complementary nature of the physical arrangement of the capacitive system together with theUse of a guard rings This allows for testing of samples of widely varying dimensions. When it is desired to rest la er samples, it may be possible to arrange two or three stets of capacitive elements similar to the set 112, l14 in parallel with each other and to connect each set to its own amplifier and detector means. Alternatiaely, the amplifiers may be connected to a single detector. In this way, increased sensitivity can be achieved over a system which simply employs one set of plates of larger surface area. A number of applications of this technique and circuitry include quality control in manufacturing preocesses, soil analysis for water concentration, analysis of tissue for flat concentration, and amount of contaminants in a fluid. In tho iatter instance, there is a possibility of determining the amount of oil sludge, or foreign materials in a water sample. It is also possible to monitor and check for drugs, such as heroin and cocaine in a package.