# Hydrogenation catalysts and their use.

## Abstract
A process for the hydrogenation of carboxylic acids and esters to form the corresponding aldehydes involves reac tion with a reducing gas at a temperature from 300 to 500 and a pressure from 200 mm Hg to 100 atm. in the presence of a manganese dioxide catalyst supported on an activated alumina or an yttrium oxide catalyst which has been treated with copper, the catalyst comprising from 1 to 15 wt. of copper and from 99 to 85 wt. of yttrium, on an elemental basis. The catalyst is also claimed.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A process for the hydrogenation of a feedstock containing an aromatic or aliphatic carboxylic acid or an ester thereof to the corresponding aldehyde, characterised in that the process comprises reacting said carboxylic acid with a reducing gas at a temperature in the range of from 3000 to 5000C and at a pressure of from 200 mm Hg to 100 atm. in the presence of a manganese dioxide catalyst supported on an activated alumina or an yttrium oxide catalyst which has been treated with copper, said latter catalyst comprising from 1 to 15 wt. of copper and from 99 to 85 wt. of yttrium, on an elemental basis. 2. A process according to claim 1 characterised in that the catalyst is manganese dioxide supported on gammaalumina. 3. A process according to claim 1 or claim 2 characterised in that the catalyst comprises from 2 to 20 wt. based on the weight of the support. 4. A process according to claim 1 characterised in that the catalyst is copper treated yttrium oxide supported on alpha alumina. 5. A process according to any of the preceding claims characterised in that the reactant and aldehyde produced therefrom are as follows benzoic acid or methyl benzoate benzaldehyde p methylbenzoic acid or p methylbenzoate p methylbenzaldehyde p tert butylbenzoic acid p tert butylbenzaldehyde 3 ,5 dimethylbenzoic acid 3 ,5 dimethylbenzaldehyde methyl p methoxybenzoate p methoxybenzaldehyde and anisole p fluorobenzoic acid p fluorobenzaldehyde 4 phenylbenzoic acid p phenylbenzaldehyde trimethylacetate trimethylacetaldehyde dimethylterephthalate terephthalaldehyde 6. A hydrogenation catalyst characterised in that it comprises from 2 to 20 wt. 96 of manganese dioxide, based on weight of support, supported on an activated alumina or from 1 to 15 wt. of copper and from 99 to 85 wt. of yttrium, on an elemental basis. 7. A catalyst according to claim 6 characterised in that the catalyst is manganese dioxide supported on gammaalumina. 8. A catalyst according to claim 6 characterised in that the catalyst is from 5 to 8 wt. 96 of copper and from 95 to 92 wt. of yttrium. 9. A catalyst according to claim 6 characterised in that the catalyst is copper treated yttrium oxide supported on alpha alumina.

## Description
HYDROGENATION CATALYSTS AND THEIR USE Background of the Invention The catalytic vapor phase hydrogenation of carboxylic acids and ester to Orn the corresponding aldehydes is ell know. Hydrogenation processes wherein the carboxylic acids and esters are frec of hydrogen on the alpha carbon, such as benzoic acid and methy3 benzoate, are taught in U.S. Patent 4,328,373, issued on May 4, 1982 to Dow Chemical Company.The reaction is performed in the presence of metal oxide catalysts such as oxides of yttrium, zirconium, cerium, praseodymium, thorium and uranium supported on alpha alumina.The first two oxides are most preferred. This work is also described in King et al., An In Situ Study of Methyl Benioate and Benzoic Acid Reduction on Yttrium Oxide byInfrared Spectroscopic Flow Reactor, Journal of Catalysis 76, 274 284 1982 . U.S. Patent 4,093,661, issued June 6, 1978 to UnionCarbide Corporation, shows the vapor phase disproportionation of lower alkanoate esters of alcohols in the vapor phase to produce aldehydes and ketones over metal oxide catalysts.The preferred catalysts include nickel oxide, zinc oxide, and chromium oxide. The use of other metal oxides, namely, oxides of copper, titanium, vanadium, manganese, iron and cobalt, are also disclosed. It is further taught that the catalyst can be supported on an inert catalyst support such as alumina, silica and carbon. In U.S. Patent 2,018,350, issued on October 22, 1935 to General Aniline Works, Inc., aldehydes are formed from dicarboylic acids or their anhydrides with reducing gas in the presence of catalysts such as chromium, iron, copper, manganese, cobalt or their oxides, either alone or mixed with each other. Mixtures of such catalysts with other elements such 3S lead, cerium, uranium or zinc o oxides of these elements are also generally disclosed. The catalysts include granules of pumice impregnated with iron salts and reduced with hydrogen to prepare benzaldehyde from phthalic anhydride.In addition, a catalyst prepared by reducing fragments of ferric oxide activated with chromium compounds is also described. Other catalysts include copper and iron deposited on granular pumice, a reduced mixture of lead oxide, chromium oxide, and iron oxide, and reduced zinc chromate. Summary of the Invention The first embodiment of this invention relates to the catalytic vapor phase hydrogenation of carboxylic acids and esters to form corresponding aldehydes with a manganese cata iyst supported on activated alumina. Such alumina include gamma, beta, and eta alumina. The use of the activated alumina support substantially enhances the catalytic activity.These supports are characterized by high surface area, i.e., 2 to 1000 m2 q., preferably from 100 to 500 m2 g., and high pore volume, i.e., 0.3 to 1.0 cc g. The second embodiment of this invention relates to the aforesaid reactions with an yttrium oxide catalyst treated with copper. The copper treatment of the catalyst has been found to substantially enhance its activity. The above catalysts are particularly useful for convertiny carboxylic acids and their eskers fres of hydrogen on their alpha carbon to aldehydes. They exhibit substantially enhanced activity and selectivity over thz prior art. An example of the reaction for which the catalysts of the inven tion may be used is the conversion of benwic acid and methyl benzoate to betlzaldehyde. Acids having hydrogen on alpha carbons such as acetic acid and butyric acid are not selectively converted with the activated alumina supported manganese catalyst of the invention. Detailed Description of the Invention Carboxylic acids and esters thereof which can be converted to aldehydes in accordance with the instant invention may be either mono or dicarboxylic. The esters include aryl and lower alkyl esters of such carboxylic acids. Both aliphatic carboxylic acids and aromatic carboxylic acids may be reacted. Aromatic carboxylic acids and esters include benzoic, phthalic, isophthalic and terephthalic, as well as alkyl, alkoxy and halo substituted benzoic acids and esters such as toluic, ethylbenzoic, fluorobenzoic, chlorobenzoic, bromobenzoic and methoxybenzoic. Preferably, the alkyl substitution would contain from 1 to 6 carbon atoms. Generally, from 1 to 5 alkyl substitutions may be present. Other materials which may be converted include naphthoic, biphenylcarboxylic, anthranoic, trimethylacetic and trifluoroacetic acids and esters. The supported manganese catalyst may be readily prepared hy irnmersing the support in an aqueous solution of a manganese salt. The manganese salt solution loaded support is then heated at a temporature of from 200 to 5000C under oxidizing conditions to form supported manganese dioxide.Generally, from 2 to 20 wt. of the catalyst is added to the support. The yttrium ode catalyst relay be readily prepared as described in the aforementioned U.S. Patent 4,328,373.Generally, a salt of the yttrium compound is heated at a temperature of from 200 to 5000C under oxidizing conditions to form the corresponding metal oxide. The catalyst may be in the form of pellets or deposited on an inert support material, as for example alumina, silicon carbide, silica, and silica alumina. Alpha alumina is preferred. Generally, frorfi2 to 20 wt. of the catalyst is added to the support. The copper activator, which forms the essence of the catalyst of the invention, may be formed at the same time as the yttrium oxide by means of the reduction of the yttrium and the copper salt simultaneously or the copper oxide may be intimately mixed with the yttrium oxide catalyst. The catalyst comprises from 1 to 15 wt. copper and from 99 to 85 wt. yttrium on an elemental basis, preferably from 5 to 8 wt. of the copper and from 95 to 92 wt. of the yttrium. Prior to the reduction of the carboxylic acid or carboxylic acid ester, it is preferable to reduce the catalyst to its metallic form in situ under the reaction conditions. The hydrogenation reaction may be carried out in a batch or a continuous flow system, as will be readily understood by those skilled in the art. The temperature of the reaction may range from 3500 to 5000C, preferably from 400 to 4500C. Pressures of from 200 mm Hg up to a high as 100 atm. may be used, though 1 to 5 atm. is preferred. The molar ratio of the hydrogen to the carboxylic acid or the carboxylic acid ester may range broadly from 1 1 to 1,000 1, preferably from 20 1 to 200 1. The optimum conditions of temperature, pressure and hydrogen concentration may be readily determined by those skilled in the art, depending on the particular reactant being employed. The rate of flow of the reactants over the catalyst may range from 0.05 to 2.0 kg acid per kg catalyst hr., preferably from 0.1 to 1.0 kg acid per kg catalyst hr. The following examples further illustrate the instant invention Example 1 Catalysts were prepared by immersing various supports in an aqueous solution of manganese nitrate. The solution and support were heated so as to reflux the solution at about 1000C for two hours. After cooling to room temperature, the excess solution was decanted and the impregnated support was dried at about 1200C and calcined at 4500C to produce the manganese dioxide. A catalyst loading of from about 10 to 20 wt. of the oxide is easily achieved by this procedure.The catalysts in oxide form were reduced in the reactor at reaction conditions prior to the addition of the feed. In the reactor system, the organic reactant was first placed in a constant tulperature vaporizer. The hydrogen reducing gas was preheated and sparged into a reservoir of the heated reactants. From vapor pressure data, the desired concentration of organic reactant in hydrogen was determined. The hydrogen stream, saturated with organic reactant was immediately heated to the reaction temperature and passed over the catalysts. The products exiting from the reactor were condensed and collected for analysis. The following table shows the comparative results obtained. Run No. 1 demonstrates the use of the manganese dioxide catalyst supported on 1 8 gamma alumina in accordance with the invention. Run Nos. 2 and 3 show comparative runs using the same catalyst supported on 8 12 mesh silica gel and 1 8 alpha alumina spheres, respectively. The residence times were measured at reaction conditions on an empty tube basis. Table iRun f 3 2 3 Reactor Volume cc 8.2 8.0 9.0Catalyst Charge gram 5.00 3.55 7.35Catalyst, 8 MnO2 15.9 18.6 14Support Pore Volume, cc g. 0.9 1.0Support Surface Area, m2 g. 194 300 1Residence Time seconds 0.62 0.79 0.60F W Kg Feed Kg Catalyst Hr. 0.426 0.47 0.334Reactor Temp. CC 433 435 434Feed Mole Benzoic Acid in H2 2.1 1.80 1.8 Conversion of Benzoic Acid 91 63 72.1 Molar Selectivity to Benzaldehyde 94.8 55 72.5 Benzene 3.6 44 27 Toluene 0.9 0.5 0.3 Benzyl Alcohol 0.7 0.5 0.2 It will be noted in Run No. 1 that the conversion of benzoic acid was considerably higher than in Run Nos. 2 and 3. That the support would have this marked effect is quite unexpected.Even more surprisingly, by using the gamma alumina supported manganese catalyst of the invention a substantially higher molar selectivity to benzaldehyde was obtained. By product formation in Run No. 1 is manyfold less than in Run Nos. 2 and 3. Ey.antple 2 A procedure described in Run No. 1 is followed, except that the feed is methyl benzoat e. In a 2 hour run at 4300C, and with a feed stream containing 2.0to methyl benzoate, a conversion of 92 of the methyl benzoate is noted. The selectivity to benzaldehyde is 83 . Example 3 The catalyst described in Run No. 1 is employed in a 5 hour run with p methylbenzoic acid at 4250C. The conversion is 91 and the selectivity to p methylbenzaldehyde is 86 .Example 4 The catalyst described in Run No. 1 is employed in a 10 hour run with p tert butylbenzoic acid at 4300C. The conversion is 95 with a selectivity to p tert butylbenzaldehyde of 86 .Example 5 The catalyst described in Run No. 1 is employed in a 4 hour run with 3,5 dimethylbenzoic acid at 4350C. The conversion is 878 at a feed, with a selectivity to 3,5 dimethylbenzaldehyde of 83 .Example 6 The catalyst described in Run No. 1 is employed in a 5 hour run with methyl p methylbenzoate at 4300C. The conversion is 85 , and the selectivity to p methylbenzal dehyde 85 . Example 7 The catalyst described in Run No. 1 is employed in a 5 hour run with methyl p methoxybenzoate at 4200C. The conversion is 87 . The selectivity to p methoxybenzaldehydc and to anisole is 12 and 75to, respctively. Example 8 The catalyst described in Run No. 1 is used in a 2.hour test with p fluorobenzoic acid at 4300C. The conversion is 75 , and the selectivity to p fluorobenzaldehyde 89 .Example 9 The catalyst described in Run No. 1 is used in a 4 hour test with 4 phenylbenzoic acid at 4330C. The conversion is 92 , and the selectivity to p phenylbenzaldehyde 84 . Example 10 The catalyst described in Run No. 1 is used in a 4 hour test of trimethylacetic acid at 4230C. The conversion is 78 , and the selectivity to trimethylacetaldehyde 72 .Example 11 The catalyst described in Run No. 1 is used in a 10 hour test with dimethylterephthalate at 4350C. The conversion is 89 , and the selectivity to terephthalaldehyde 79 . Example 12 Catalysts were prepared by iml,lersing an alpha alumina support in an aqueous solution of the catalyst components in the form of nitrates. The solution and support were heated so as to reflux the solution at about 100or for two hours.After cooling to room temperaturer the excess solution was decanted and the impregnated support was dried t about 1200C and calcined at 400C to produce the metal oxide. A catalyst loading of from about 10 to 20 wt. of the metal oxide is easily achieved by this procedure. The catalysts in oxide form were reduced in the reactor at reaction conditions prior to the addition of the feed. In the reactor system, the organic reactant was first placed in a constant temperature vaporizer. The hydrogen reducinq gas was preheated and sparged into a reservoir of the heated reactants. From vapor pressure data, the desired concentration of organic reactant in hydrogen was determined. The hydrogen stream, saturated with organic reactant, was immediately heated to the reaction temperature and passed over the catalysts. The products exiting from the reactor were condensed and collected for analysis. The following table shows the comparative results obtained. Run No. l demonstrates the use of an yttrium oxide catalyst in accordance with the prior art. Run No. 2 shows the copper activated catalyst of the instant invention. In both cases, the catalysts were supported on an alpha alumina support in the form of 1 8 spheres.In Run No. 2, the percents copper and yttrium were 9 and 91 , respectively, on an elemental basis Table 2 lxun R 1 2Reactor Volume cc 17.0 17.0Catalyst Charge gram 14.72 14.58Catalyst 12.92 Y2O3 13.3 Y203 CuO Rcsidence Time seconds 1.9 1.3F W Kg Feed Kg Catalyst Hr. 0.fez3 0.1E6Reactor Temp. C 430 428Feed Mole Benzoic Acid in H2 1.8 2.3 Conversion of Benzoic Acid 87.5 88 Molar Selectivity to Benzaldehyde 92.9 94.2 Benzene 7.1 5.8 Toluene Benzyl Alcohol It will be noted in the above runs that the flow rate in Run No. 2 using the copper activated catalyst of the invention is over twice that of Run No. 1.Despite this, the conversion to benzoic acid in Run No. 2 is comparable and a somewhat higher molar selectivity to benzaldehyde was obtained. This is particularly surprising and clearly shows that the copper activated catalyst of the invention is far more active than the yttrium catalyst per se. Example 13 A procedure described in Run No. 2 of Example 12 is followed, except that the feed is methyl benzoate. In a 2 hour run at 4300C, and with a feed stream containing 2.09s methyl benzoate, a conversion of 92sus of the methyl benzoate is noted. The selectivity to benzaldehy6 e is 93 . Example 14 The catalyst described in Run No. 2 of Example 12 is employed in a 5 hour run with p methylbenzoic acid at 4250C.The conversion is 91 and the selectivity to p methylbenzaldehyde is 94 .Example 15 The catalyst described in Run No. 2 of Example 12 is employed in a 10 hour run with p tert butylbenzoic acid at 4300C. The conversion is 95 with a selectivity to p tertbutylbenzaldehyde of 94 .Example 16 The catalyst described in Run No. 2 of Example 12 is employed in a 4 hour run with 3,5 dimethylbenzoic acid at 4350C. The conversion is 87 at a 2.796 feed, with a selec ivity to 3,5 dimethylbenzaldehyde of 938. Example 17 The catalyst described in Run No. 2 of Example 12 is employed in a 5 hour run with methyl p methylbenzoate at 4300C. The conversion is 85 , and the selectivity to p methylbenzaldehyde 95 . Example 18 The catalyst described in Run No. 2 of Example 12 is employed in a 5 hour run with methyl p mel hoxybenzoate at 420 C The conversion is 87. The selectivity to p methoxybenzaldehyde and to anisole is 12t and 75 , respectively.Example 19 The catalyst described in Run No. 2 of Example 12 is tuned in a 2 hour test with p fluorobenzoic acid at 430 C. The conversion is 75 , and the selectivity to p fluorobenzaldehyde 89 . Example 20 The catalyst described in Run No. 2 of Example 12 is used in a 4 hour test with 4 phenylbenzoic acid at 433,,0C. The conversion is 92 , and the selectivity to p phenylbenzaldehyde 94 .Example 21 The catalyst described in Run No. 2 of Example 12 ia used in a 4 hour test of trimethylacetic acid at 4230C.The conversion is 78 , and the selectivity to trimethylacetaldehyde 72 .Example 22 The catalyst described in Run No. 2 of Example 12 is used in a 10 hour test with dimethylterephthalate at 4350C.The conversion is 89 , and the selectivity to terephthalaldehyde 79 .