# Corrosion inhibitor composition.

## Abstract
A corrosion inhibiting composition of a nitrogen contain ing compound and acetylenic alcohol wherein the acetylenic alcohol is a mixture of 2 methyl 3 butyne 2 ol and 2,5 dimethyl 3 hexyne 2,5 diol. Other acetylenic or non acetylenic alcohols may be additionally employed.

## Claims
IT IS CLAIMED 1. In a corrosion inhibiting composition comprising a nitrogen con taining compound and an acetylenic alcohol in a corrosion inhib iting amount, the improvement wherein a mixture of a 2 methyl 3 butyne 2 ol and b 2,5 dimethyl 3 hexyne 2,5 diol is employed as said acytelenic alcohol. 2. A composition as defined in claim 1 wherein the methyl butynol comprises from about 25 to about 95 by weight of the mixture. 3. A composition as defined in claim 1 in which said composition contains an acetylenic alcohol other than the alcohols a and b and in which the ratio by weight of the mixture of a and b to said additional alcohol in between about 1 10 to 10 1. 4. A composition as defined in claim 1 in which to weight ratio of combined acetylenic alcohols to nitrogen containing compound is in the range of about 1 10 to about 10 1. 5. A composition as defined in claim 3 in which the additional acetylenic alcohols are selected from compounds of the formula EMI16.1 wherein R4, R5, and R6 may be the same or different and are in dependently selected from the group consisting of hydrogen, alkyl, of up to 7 carbon atoms, phenyl, alkyl substituted phenyl, having up to 10 carbon atoms in the alkyl portion thereof, hydroxy alkyl of up to 7 carbon atoms, or the alpha R s may be joined together to form a 5 or 6 membered alicyclic ring. 6. A metal corrosion inhibiting composition according to claim 5, in which the additional acetylenic alcohol s are selected from hexynol, dimethyl hexynol, dimethyl hexynediol, dimethyl octyne diol, methyl butynol, methyl pentynol, ethynyl cyclohexanol, phenyl butynol, ditertiary acetylenic glycol, ethyl octynol, 3,4 dihydroxy l butyne, l ethynylcyclohexano1, 2 methyl 3 butyn 2 ol l propyn 3 ol, l butyn 3 ol , l pentyn 3 ol , 1 heptyn 3 ol , 1 octyn 3 ol , 1 nonyn 3 ol, 1 decyn 3 ol, 3 2,4,5 trimethyl 3 cyclohexenyl l propyne 3 ol, propargyl alcohol, 1,4 butynediol, 3 methyl 1 nonyn 3 ol, alpha ethynyl 2,4,6 trimethylbenzyl alco hol, 2 methyl 1 pentyn 3 ol , alpha ethynyl benzyl alcohol, 1 2,4,6 trimethyl 3 cyclohexenyl 3 propyn 1 ol, benzyl butynol, naphthyl butyno, 3 methyl 1 butyn 3 ol, 3 methyl 1 pentyn 3 ol, l hexyn 3 ol, 3 methyl l hexyn 3 ol 7. A corrosion inhibiting composition according to claim 6, in which the additional acetylenic alcohols are ethyl octynol or hexynol. 8. A corrosion inhibiting composition as defined in claim 1 wherein said nitrogen containing compound is a quaternary ammonium com pound selected from compounds according to the structural formu lae a R1 Z b R1 P q qX EMI17.1 d R10 3 N CH2 3 N R10 3 qe qX e R12 CH2CH2 N R10 3 q f R10 4 N q qX wherein R1 and R2 are the same or different aromatic or non aromatic heterocyclic tertiary amine,R7 and R8 are the same or different lower alkyl, Rg is hydroxy substituted lower alkynyl,R10 substituents are chosen such that no more than one is a saturated or unsaturated fatty aliphatic radical of 7 24 carbon atoms and the other R10 substituents are lower alkynyl of benzyl,R12 is a non aromatic heterocyclic tertiary amine,Z is CH2,, CH2 2 , CH2 C C CH2 CH CH CH2 , q is a number equal to the total number of quaternary nitrogen atoms in the cationic portion of the quaternary. 9. A composition as defined in claim 1 wherein the said nitrogen containing compound is benzylquinolinium chloride. 10. A composition as defined in claim 1 wherein said nitrogen con taining compound is a Mannich base of rosin amine. 11. A composition as defined in claim 1 wherein said nitrogen con taining compound is a benzyl chloride quaternary of an alkyl pyridine in which the alkyl group contains from 1 12 carbon atoms. 12. A corrosion inhibiting composition according to claim 1, in which the acetylenic alcohol mixture containing product consists essen tially of 2 methyl 3 butyne 2 ol 12 19 w w 2,5 dimethyl 3 hexyne 2,5 diol 30 34 w w acetic acid 2 4 w w potassium acetate 3 5 w w water 19 24 w w and the balance is composed of acetone aldolization products, diacetone alcohol, mesityl oxide and phorone. 13. A corrosion inhibiting composition according to claim 1, in which the acetylenic alcohol containing product is selected from ace tylenic alcohol containing products consisting essentially of a 4 parts methyl butynol and 1 part acetylenic alcohol con taining product as defined in claim 3, b 6 parts methyl butynol and 1 part acetylenic alcohol con taining product as defined in claim 3, and c 8 parts methyl butynol and 1 part acetylenic alcohol con taining product as defined in claim 3. 14. A corrosion inhibiting composition according to claim 1, consist ing essentially of a benzyl quinolinium chloride b an acetylenic alcohol containing product consisting essen tially of 2 methyl 3 butyne 2 ol 12 19 w w 2,5 dimethyl 3 hexyne 2,5 diol 30 34 w w acetic acid 2 4 w w potassium acetate 3 5 w w water 19 24 w w and the balance composed of acetone aldolization products, diacetone alcohol, mesityl oxide and phorone, c hexynol, and d water. 15. A metal corrosion inhibiting composition according to claim 1, consisting essentially of a the benzyl chloride quaternary of an alkyl pyridine in which the alkyl groups contain from 1 12 carbon atoms, b an acetylenic alcohol containing product consisting essen tially of 2 methyl 3 butyne 2 ol 12 19 w w 2,5 dimethyl 3 hexyne 2,5 diol 30 34 w w acetic acid 2 4 w w potassium acetate 3 5 w w water 19 24 w w and the balance composed of acetone aldolization products, diacetone alcohol, mesityl oxide and phorone, c hexynol, and d diacetone alcohol. 16. A corrosion inhibiting composition according to claim 1, consist ing essentially of a the benzyl chloride quaternary of an alkyl pyridine in which the alkyl groups contain from 1 12 carbon atoms, b an acetylenic alcohol containing product consisting essen tially of 2 methyl 3 butyne 2 ol 12 19 w w 2,5 dimethyl 3 hexyne 2,5 diol 30 34 w w acetic acid 2 4 w w potassium acetate 3 5 w w water 19 24 w w and the balance composed of acetone aldolization products, diacetone alcohol, mesityl oxide and phorone, c hexynol, and d soft water. 17. A metal corrosion inhibiting composition according to claim 1, consisting essentially of a the Mannich base of rosin amine, b an acetylenic alcohol containing product consisting essen tially of 2 methyl 3 butyne 2 ol 12 19 w w 2,5 dimethyl 3 hexyne 2,5 diol 30 34 w w acetic acid 2 4 w w potassium acetate 3 5 w w water 19 24 w w and the balance composed of acetone aldolization products, diacetone alcohol, mesityl oxide and phorone, c 4 parts methyl butynol for each part of a d hexynol, and e water. 18. A metal corrosion inhibiting composition according to claim 1, consisting essentially of a the Mannich base of rosin amine b an acetylenic alcohol containing product consisting essen tially of 2 methyl 3 butyne 2 ol 12 19 w w 2,5 dimethyl 3 hexyne 2,5 diol 30 34 w w acetic acid 2 4 w w potassium acetate 3 5Z w w water 19 24z w w c 6 parts methyl butynol per each part of b . d hexynol, and e water. 19. A metal corrosion inhibiting composition according to claim 1, consisting essentially of a the Mannich base of rosin amine, b an acetylenic alcohol containing product consisting essen tially of 2 methyl 3 butyne 2 ol 12 19 w w 2,5 dimethyl 3 hexyne 2,5 diol 30 34 X w w acetic acid 2 4 w w potassium acetate 3 5 X w w water 19 24 w w c 8 parts methyl butynol per part of b d hexynol, and e water. 20. A method of inhibiting the corrosivity of corrosive acids in contact with metal by incorporating into said corrosive acid a corrosion inhibiting amount of a composition according to claim 1.

## Description
CORROSION INHIBITOR COMPOSITION BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION This invention relates to a composition for the inhibition of metal corrosion in aqueous acidic solutions, and is more particularly concerned with a corrosion inhibitor composition for use in aqueous hydrochloric acid to inhibit the corrosion of iron, steel, ferrous alloys or nickel exposed to such aqueous acid. The present invention is also concerned with providing a new and improved corrosion inhibitor composition which may be employed in acidizing solutions and which will be effective in inhibiting metal corrosion in acid solutions at relatively high temperatures and for relatively long periods of time. The corrosion inhibitors as described herein are useful in inhibiting the corrosion of metals in contact with aqueous acids such as hydrochloric, phosphoric, hydrofluoric, citric, sulfuric acids and the like associated with various industrial operations. The corrosive attack of metal surfaces in contact with aqueous acids is a serious problem, experienced in such treatment procedures as chemical and electrolytic pickling operations, acid dipping processes, plant wash out procedures, high temperature cleaning of metal surfaces of industrial equipment, and oil well acidizing operations.Inhibitors are desirable to prevent or inhibit corrosion or erosion of the metal surfaces. In the field of oil well acidizing operations, it is necessary to use inhibitors to prevent corrosion of the oil well equipment by the aqueous acid solutions employed. Various other industrial operations, such as chemical and electrolytic pickling operations, acid dipping processes, high temperature cleaning of metal surfaces of industrial equipment, and plant wash out procedures, also involve contact between an aqueous acidic solution and a metal, and an inhibitor must be used in order to minimize corrosion and or consumption of the metal by such contact. In oil well acidizing, there are needs for effective corrosion inhibitors for use at temperatures of 1750F. and above, such as are encountered in various operations involving acidic solutions, particularly where increasingly elevated temperatures are encountered as the well extends further and deeper into the earth. Such deeper exploration wells have more corrosive environments and involve higher temperatures and pressures. These conditions cause problems in the areas of tubular goods, casing connections and well head equipment. While various corrosion inhibiting agents have been proposed, most have been employed with only varying degrees of success. Some inhibitors which have been proposed are reasonably effective at low and moderate temperatures, but fail when higher temperatures or longer periods of exposure are encountered. Various nitrogen containing compounds, such as amines and their quaternary ammonium derivatives, have been previously used in corrosion inhibition compositions. Thus, United States Patent Nos.2,993,864, 3,077,453, 3,107,221, 3,382,179, 3,404,094, 3,505,235, 3,632,524, 3,658,720, 3,668,137, 3,779,935, 3,802,890, 4,028,268 and 4,222,886 all show a variety of nitrogen containing compounds, as effective components in known corrosion inhibiting formulations. It is 8159 known to use one or more acetylenic alcohols as corrosion inhibitors. For example, United States Patent Nos. 2,993,862, 2,993,863, 2,993,864, 3,077,453, 3,107,221, 3,382,179, 3,404,094, 3,505,235, 3,600,321, 3,632,524, 3,658,720, 3,779,935 3,802,890, 4,028,268 and 4,444,668 all discuss the relative effectiveness of incorporating one or more acetylenic alcohols in compositions for inhibiting the corrosion of metals in aqueous acidic environments. SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION the corrosion Inhibitor of the present invention is a composition comprising corrosion inhibiting amounts of a nitrogen containing compound and an acetylenic alcohol which comprises a mixture of 2methyl 3 butyne 2 ol and 2,5 dimethyl 3 hexyne 2,5, diol available from Lonza under the trademark CORYNOL. The compositions may also include a surfactant and organic solvent and other acetylenic or non acetylenic alcohols may be employed along with the CORYNOL. The present invention accordingly is an improvement in corrosion inhibitor compositions containing a nitrogen containing compound and an acetylenic alcohol wherein a specific mixture of acetylenic alcohols is employed as at least one of the acetylenic alcohols i.e. a mixture of 2 methyl 3 butyne 2 ol, and 2,5 dimethyl 3 hexyne 2,5 diol CORYNOL . In its preferred aspects the nitrogen containing organic compounds are illustrated as certain Mannich bases and quaternary compounds more specifically described in the detailed description which follows. Optionally, the composition of this invention may also contain a surfactant and a solvent. The surfactant may be any surfactant which is stable in aqueous acid. Appropriate solvents may be any organic solvent, which is acid soluble and acid stable, or water. The invention may also be summarized as a method of inhibiting the corrosivity of corrosive acids in contact with nickel and ferrous metals, such as iron, steel and ferrous alloys, by adding to the corrosive acid an effective amount of the aformentioned composition according to this invention. DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION As indicated the present invention is an improved corrosion inhibitor composition which is comprised of a nitrogen containing compound and an acetylenic alcohol in which the acetylenic alcohol is a mixture of 2 methyl 3 butyne 2 ol and 2,5 dimethyl 3 hexyne 2,5diol. Alcohols other than this mixture may also additionally be employed. These alcohols may be other acetylenic or non acetylenic alcohols. Further, surfactants and organic solvents may be present. Among the nitrogen containing compounds are the organic amines and quaternary ammonium derivatives thereof, a wide variety of which are available as noted in the patents discussed earlier in the background of the invention. The preferred nitrogen compounds for use in the present invention are Mannich bases of amines such as disclosed in U.S. Patent 3,668,137, i.e. Mannich base of rosin amine and certain quaternary compounds. The heterocyclic amines and quaternary derivations are particularly preferred. a R1 CH2 C C CH2 R2 2 x where R1 and R2 is aromatic heterocyclic tertiary amine or non aromatic heterocyclic tertiary amine, and x is an anion, preferably halogen b R1 CH2 C C R 1 x where R1 is aromatic heterocyclic tertiary amine or non aromatic heterocyclic tertiary amine, R is a member of the group consisting of H and lower alkyl 1 6 carbon radical, and x is an anion, preferably halogen c R1 CH2 CH CH CH2 R2 2 x where R1 and R2 is aromatic heterocyclic tertiary amine, or non aromatic heterocyclic tertiary amine, and x is an anion, preferably halogen d R CH2CH CH CH3 1 x where R is aromatic heterocyclic tertiary amine or non aromatic heterocyclic tertiary amine, and x is an anion, preferably halogen e R CH2 C6H5 1 x where R is aromatic heterocyclic tertiary amine,and x is an anion, preferably halogen. The preferred quaternary ammonium compounds employed in the present invention may also be generally exemplified by the formulae a R5 Z R6 . qX b CR P q qX EMI4.1 d E R10 3 N CH2 3 N R10 3 q qX e ER12 CH2CH2 N R10 3 q qX f R10 4 N q qXwherein R5 and R6 are the same or different aromatic or non aromatic heterocyclic tertiary amine, R7 and R8 are the same or different Tower alkyl Rg is hydroxy substituted lower alkynyl, R10 substituents arechosen such that no more than one is a satu rated or unsaturated fatty aliphatic radical of 7 24 carbon atoms and the other R10 substituents are lower alkynyl or benzyl, R12 is a non aromatic heterocyclic tertiary amine, Z is CH2 , CH2 2 , CH2 C C CH2 CH CH CH2 , q is a number equal to the total number of quaternary nitrogen atoms in the cationic portion of the quaternary ammonium com pound, X is an anion, usually 1, 2 or 3, more generally 1 or 2, suitably halogen such as chorine, bromine and iodine, preferably chlorine and P is an alpha alkenyl or alpha alkynyl radical of 3 10 carbon atoms, or benzyl and Non limiting examples of suitable aromatic and non aromatic heterocyclic tertiary amines satisfying R5 R6 and R12 may be quinoline, pyridine, morpholine, pyrrolidine, piperazine, isoquinoline, benzoquinoline, imidazole, pyrimidine, carbazole and the like, which may optionally be further substituted by 1 to 5 nuclear alkyl, phenyl or benzyl substituents, said alkyl substituents having 1 to 12 carbon atoms per heterocyclic moiety.Preferred examples of aromatic heterocyclic tertiary amines are alkyl pyridines having 1 to 5 nuclear alkyl substituents per pyridine moiety, said alkyl substituents having 1 to 12 carbon atoms and preferably having an average of about 6 carbon atoms per pyridine moiety, a mixture of high boiling and low boiling tertiary amine heterocyclic compounds, such as Alkolidine 10, Alkolidine 11, Alkolidine 12, Alkolidine 13 and Alkolidine 00, available from Lonza a high boiling Alkyl Pyridine HAP and polyalkylated Pyridine PAP 200 and PAP 220, available from Reilly Tar andChemical Corp. Pyridine Bases 150 and 400 and mixed Alkyl Pyridines such as Pyridine Residue Whole, available from Nepera and or AlkylPyridine Residue BHR, AHM and AHR, available from E. T. Horn. Specific examples of preferred quaternary ammonium compounds which may be used in formulating the corrosion inhibitor of the present invention include A Quinoline N benzyl ammonium chlorideEMI6.1 B Bis butyne 2 yl 1,4 quinolinium dichlorideEMI6.2 C Bis butyne 2 yl 1 ,4 al kylpyridinium dichlorideEMI6.3 D 1 benzyl 2,3 diphenyl 5 morpholinoethyl pyrrolidine N,N dibenzyldiammonium chlorideEMI6.4 E Bis butyne 2 yl 1 diethylamino 4 oxy 2 heptyn ammonium chlorideEMI7.1 F l benzyl 2,3 diphenyl 5 dibenzylpiperazinomethylpyrrolidine N,N dibenzyltriammonium chlorideEMI7.2 G N tallow N dipropargyl N tripropargyl propyl adiammoni umchl oride EMI7.3 H l benzyl 2,3 diphenyl 5 benzyl tallow aminoethylpyrrolidine N,N dibenzyldiammonium chlorideEMI7.4 I N dibenzyl N tribenzylethyl pi perazi nium chloride EMI8.1 J N tallow N dibenzyl N tribenzylpropyidiammonium chlorideEMI8.2 K Tri propargylbenzylammonium chlorideEMI8.3 L N,N,N benzylpropargyltallow N,N dipropargylbenzyl propyldiam EMI8.4 tb monium SEP chloride tb SEP F SEP C6H5 CH2 SEP CH2 C6H5 SEP SEP 2 SEP C l tb SEP Tallow N CH2 3 N SEP 2 SEP C1 tb SEP HC C CH2 SEP CH2 C CH 2 SEP j tb isoquinoline N benzyl chloride quanternary, thi oal kyl pyro dine quaternaries, RTI ID 8.8 thioquinoline quaternaries, thiobenzoquinoline quater aries, imidazole quaternaries, pyrimidine quaternaries, carbazol e quaternaries, alkyl pyridine N methyl chloride quaternary and alkyl pyridine N benzyl chloride quaternaries of the pyridine materials ofLonza, E.T. Horn, Nepera and Reilly Tar and Chemical described earlier. The acetylenic alcohol employed in the corrosion inhibitor of this invention, at least one must be acetylenic alcohol containing, consists essentially of a mixture of 2 methyl 3 butyne 2 ol,2 5 di methyl 3 hexyne 2,5 diol acetic acid, potassium acetate, water and acetone aldolization products, such as diacetone alcohol, mesityl oxide and phorone. Such acetylenic alcohols are available fromLonza, under the trademark CORYNOL.A typical composition of CORYNOLRPA as commercially available in water consists of 2 methyl 3 butyne 2 ol 12 19 w w 2,5 dimethyl 3 hexyne 2,5 diol 30 34 w w acetic acid 2 4 wiw potassium acetate 3 5 w w water 19 24 w wThe balance of impurities is composed of acetone aldolization products such as diacetone alcohol, mesityl oxide and phorone. The composition of the other CORYNOL products is given as CORYNOL RPA 1 4 parts methyl butynol 1 part CORYNOL RPACORYNOL RPA 2 6 parts methyl butynol 1 part CORYNOL RPACORYNOL RPA 3 8 parts methyl butynol 1 part CORYNOL RPA based on the total amount of the methyl butynol and 2,5 dimethyl 3hexyne 2,5 diol, the methyl butynol will thus comprise from about 2595 of the mixture. The other acetylenic alcohols employed in the present invention suitable include compounds of the general structural formula EMI9.1 wherin R4, R5 and R6 may be the same or different and are independently selected from the group consisting of hydrogen, alkyl, preferably of up to 7 carbon atoms, phenyl, alkyl substituted phenyl, preferably having up to 10 carbon atoms in the alkyl portion thereof, hydroxy alkyl, preferably of up to 7 carbon atoms, or the alpha R s may be joined together to form a 5 or 6 membered alicyclic ring. Such acetylenic alcohols include hexynol, dimethyl hexynol, dimethyl hexynediol, dimethyl octynediol, methyl butynol, methyl pentynol, ethynyl cyclohexanol, phenyl butynol, ditertiary acetylenic glycol, ethyl octynol, 3 ,4 dihydroxy l butyne, 1 ethynylcyclohexanol, 2methyl 3 butyn 2 ol , l propyn 3 ol , l butyn 3 ol , l pentyn 3 ol , 1heptyn 3 ol, l octyn 3 ol , l nonyn 3 ol , l decyn 3 ol, 3 2,4,5 tri methyl 3 cyclohexenyl l propyne 3 ols propargyl alcohol, 1 ,4 butyne diol, 3 methyl 1 nonyl 3 ol, alpha ethynyl 2,4,6 trimethylbenzyl alcohol, 2 methyl l pentyn 3 ol, alpha ethynyl benzyl alcohol, 1 2,4,6,trimethyl 3 cyclohexenyl 3 propyne 1 ol, benzyl butynol naphthyl butynol, 3 methyl l butyn 3 ol, 3 methyl l pentyn 3 ol, 1hexyn 3 ol, 3 methyl 1 hexyn 3 ol, and the like. Especially preferred acetylenic alcohols according to the present invention are ethyl octynol and hexynol. Various types of surfactants have been found to be effective and useful in assuring the complete dispersion of the active ingredients throughout the composition and a better contact of the inhibitor with the metallic surface and may optionally be additionally contained in the present inventive corrosion inhibitor. In general, any surfactant that is stable in aqueous acid may be used.Examples of useful surfactants are oxyethylated alkyl phenol, ammonium alkylbenzenepara sulfonate, trimethyl stearylammionium chloride, alkyl sulfonate, alkyl taurate, alkyl phosphate, alkyl aryl sulfonate, ethoxylated ol eate, ethoxyl ated sorbitol hexaol eate, ethoxyl ated polyol owl eat and other ethoxylated oleates, tall oil and other fatty acids, ethylene oxide adducts of tridecyl phenol, nonyl phenol, and octyl phenol, of the type disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 3,779,935, nonionic ethylene oxide adducts of a primary amine of the type disclosed inU.S. Pat. No. 4,038,368, and lauryl alcohol derivatives of ethylene oxide with about 2 to 23 moles of ethylene oxide, also more particularly described in U.S. Pat. No. 4,028,268. Solvents, diluents and non acetylenic alcohols which may appropriately be used if desired include acid soluble organic solvents and water. Non limiting examples include such diluents as acetone alcohol, mesityl oxide, acetone, liquid members of the aliphatic alcohols, such as methanol, ethanol, propanol, isopropanol, butanol, pentanol, hexanol and the like, ethylene glycol, di ethyl ene glycol propylene glycol, dipropylene glycol, hexylene glycol, 1,5 pentanediol, and aromatic solvents. PREPARATION DETAILS The improved inhibitor compositions of this invention are prepared by blending the constitutents in appropriate ratios in a vat or other vessel provided with a suitable agitator. The ratio of components in the corrosion inhibiting system can be varied, but the best results are obtained when formulated with a weight ratio of theCORYNOL product, consisting essentially of 2 methyl 3 butyne 2 ol, 2,5 dimethyl 3 hexyne 2,5 diol, to the additional acetylenic alcohol or alcohols between 1 10 and 10 1, preferably 1 5 and 5 1, and most ideally between 1 2 and 2 1. The weight ratio of combined acetylenic alcohols to the nitrogen containing compound, preferably the heterocyclic quaternary ammonium compound, can be formulated between 1 10 and 10 1, preferable between 1 5 and 5 1, but between 1 2 and 2 1 is most preferred. If it is desired to incorporate a surfactant and or a solvent in the present inhibitor compositions, the amounts of such constituents may be varied over a wide range. Desirable results are obtained when the amount of surfactant is present in an amount up to about 15 by weight, preferably between l and 5 . Similarly, the amount of solvents, if present, may range up to about 40Z of the total composition preferably below 35X and generally in between about 15 35X by weight. The inhibitor compositions of the invention formulated as described herein can be used in any of a variety of applications requiring the protection of metals against attack by corrosive acids, but are particularly useful for inhibiting the corrosion of oil well tubular goods and similar equipment by hydrochloric acid and other acid solutions used in workover and stimulation operations for high temperature oil and gas wells. The inhibitor compositions of the invention are normally incorporated in such acid solutions in concentrations ranging from about .05 to about 5 . The concentration selected for a particular application will depend in part upon the particular acid solution then used, the susceptibility of the tubular good or other metal material to corrosion by the acid and the environment in which the acid is to be employed.Concentrations between about 0.5 and about 2 are generally preferred. The following examples will serve to more comprehensively illus trate the principles of the invention but in being directed to certain specific compounds, process steps and conditions are not intended to limit the bounds of the invention. In all instances parts and percentages herein are by weight unless otherwise indicated. SPECIFIC INHIBITOR COMPOSITIONS The following specific inhibitor compositions of this invention are prepared by blending the named constituents in the amounts given in a suitable vessel appropriately provided with a means to ensure adequate and uniform blending.In composition 1 the nitrogen compound was benzyl quinolinium chloride. In compositions 2 and 3 the nitrogen compound was the benzyl chloride quaternary of the alkylpyridine Alkolidine 11 supplied byLonza. In compositions 4 6 the nitrogen compounds was RODINE 203 base supplied by Amchem Products Inc. a Mannich base of rosin amine with acetophenone and formaldehyde disclosed in U.S. Patent 3,668,137 . Inhibitor Composition 1 Constituents Nitrogen Compound 30.8 grams CORYNOL RPA 50.0 grams Hexynol 5.0 grams Water 14.2 grams Total 100.0 grams Appearance Clear Inhibitor Composition 2 Constituents Nitrogen Compound 25.0 grams CORYNOL RPA 50.0 grams Hexynol 15.0 grams Acetone alcohol 15.0 grams Total 100.0 grams Appearance Clear with some precipitation Inhibitor Composition 3 Constituents Nitrogen Compound 25.0 grams CORYNOL RPA 37.5 grams Hexynol 5.0 grams Soft Water 32.5 grams Total 100.0 grams Appearance Clear Inhibitor Composition 4 Constituents Nitrogen Compound 30.8 grams CORYNOL RPA 1 33.3 grams Hexynol 5.0 grams Water 30.9 grams Total 100.0 grams Inhibitor Composition 5 Constituents Nitrogen Compound 30.8 grams CORYNOL RPA 2 33.3 grams Hexynol 5.0 grams Water 30.9 grams Total 100.0 grams Inhibitor Composition 6 Constituents Nitrogen Compound 30.8 grams CORYNOL RPA 3 33.3 grams Hexynol 5.0 grams Water 30.9 grams Total 100.0 grams CORROSION INHIBITION TESTS In these tests, generally following the procedures in this field such as described in U.S. Patent No. 3,802,890, the acid solutions were mixed by diluting hydrochloric acid with water to the desired concentration. The acid solutions were prepared in advance in sufficient quantities to complete an entire series of tests with the same batch of acid. Corrosion coupons of 1 inch x 3 inch mild steel M1018 were ordered in sufficient quantities to complete a series of tests on the same batch of coupons. The coupons were weighed to the nearest milligram. Tests were conducted at 1950 F., unless otherwise noted. The acid solution was poured into an appropriate vessel in a sufficient quantity relative to the size of the test coupon. After the desired amount of acid was poured into the vessel, the inhibitor composition was added and stirred. The inhibited acid solution was then allowed to pre heat to the desired test temperature. The coupons were then placed in the preheated inhibited acid solutions.The coupons were left in the acid solutions for the specified test time of 24 hours, then removed, cleaned, allowed to dry and then reweighed. The loss in weight of the coupons was multiplied by a calculated factor to convert the loss in weight to lbs. ft.2 24 hours. The factor was calculated as follows 144 in2 ft2 Factor 454 9 x Surface Area of Coupon in2 x 1 day lb 24 hrThe results of these test are given below CORROSION INHIBITION TESTSTest Conditions Test Duration 24 hours Metal Coupon Type 1 inch x 3 inch mild steel M1018 Corrodent Concentration 15 w w HC1 Inhibitor Concentration 0.4 Test Results Inhibitor Composition Temp. Corrosion Rate Protection Ib ft2 day 1 195 F 0.00714 99.38 2 1960F 0.01102 99.05 3 196 F 0.00484 99.58 4 195 F 0.00643 99.44 5 1950F 0.00657 99.43 6 1950F 0.0077 99.38 The results reported illustrate that the compositions of this invention effectively reduce metal corrosion in aqueous acidic environments. While certain embodiments of the invention have been described for illustrative purposes, the invention is not limited thereto.Various other modifications or embodiments of the invention will be apparent to those skilled in the art in view of this disclosure.Such modifications or embodiments are within the spirit and scope of the disclosure, which is intended to be limited only by the scope of the appended claims.