# Method of producing herbicide resistant plant varieties and plants produced thereby.

## Abstract
A method of introducing cytoplasmically inherited traits from a donor plant into a receptor plant of the Solanaceae family has been invented. A method is provided for producing

## Claims
1. A method of introducing cytoplasmically inherited traits from a donor plant into a receptor plant of the Solanaceae family which comprises

## Description
Throughout this application various publications are referenced by the names of the authors and the year of publication within parentheses. Full citations for these publications may be found at the end of the specification immediately preceding the claims. The disclosures of these publications in their entireties are hereby incorporated by reference into this application in order to more fully describe the state of the art to which this invention pertains. This invention relates to the rapid development of plant varieties resistant to certain types of cost effective herbicides. It includes the production of new crop varieties resistant to such herbicides including potatoes and certain Solanaceous crops, as well as other crops produced asexually or through seeds. The invention is limited only by the compatibility of the cytoplasms from a resistant species with the nucleus and other cellular components of the crop in question. Certain weed species that were under intensive selection pressure in the field, have evolved resistance to the chloro The methods of this invention can also be used to transfer maternally inherited resistance to other herbicides. cf. Gressel, 1985 . Such resistance would be easier to transfer from variety to variety by means of directed protoplast fusion of this invention. Other cytoplasmically inherited traits can be transferred using the same methodologies. A method of introducing cytoplasmically inherited traits from a donor plant, e.g. herbicide resistance, into a receptor plant of the Solanacae family such as a potato or tomato has been invented. According to the invention protoplasts from the donor and receptor plant are prepared. The donor protoplasts are then treated under suitable conditions to prevent extensive nuclear divisions. This treatment may be a chemical treatment, but it is preferably a treatment with X ray irradiation. The treated donor protoplasts and receptor protoplasts are then contacted under suitable conditions permitting fusion of the protoplasts. Plantlets are then regenerated from the fused protoplasts. The plantlets which contain donor cytoplasmic traits are selected and rooted. Plantlets which contain receptor cytoplasmic traits are discarded. One embodiment of the invention concerns the transfer of cytoplasmically inherited resistance to the herbicide atrazine from The invention also concerns protoplasts, plants and stem explants derived from these plantlets such as the atrazine resistant stem explant of A method of introducing the cytoplasmically inherited trait of triazine resistance from A method of producing A method of producing The present invention concerns a method of introducing cytoplasmically inherited traits from a donor plant into a receptor plant of the Solanacea family, such as a potato, tomato, eggplant or pepper. The cytoplasmically inherited trait can be any useful trait such as a resistance to a specific herbicide, e.g. a triazine herbicide. The donor and receptor plants can be plants of different species or different varieties of plants within a species. In a specific embodiment of the invention the cytoplasmically inherited trait of triazine resistance of the black nightshade According to the methods of the invention protoplasts are prepared from the donor and receptor plants. The donor protoplasts are then treated under suitable conditions so as to prevent extensive nuclear divisions of the donor protoplasts. This treatment can be by chemical means or any other means. The treatment is preferably a treatment with a dose of X ray radiation. A suitable dose of X ray radiation is a dose which is greater than the dose needed to prevent a donor protoplast from regenerating by itself. The treated donor protoplasts and the receptor protoplasts are contacted under suitable conditions permitting the fusion of the protoplasts. The fused protoplasts are then regenerated to form plantlets. The plantlets which exhibit and contain donor cytoplasmic traits, e.g. herbicide resistance, are selected and rooted. Those plantlets which contain receptor cytoplasmic traits are discarded. Stem explants of these plantlets may also be prepared. The invention also concerns the fused protoplasts, plantlets and stem explants prepared by the methods of this invention. A specific embodiment of the invention involves introducing a cytoplasmically inherited resistance to a triazine herbicide, e.g. atrazine from Another specific embodiment of the invention involves introducing a cytoplasmically inherited resistance to a triazine herbicide, e.g. atrazine from Protoplasts from the The treated A stem explant of the atrazine resistant derivative of A method of introducing the cytoplasmically inherited trait of triazine resistance from A method of producing The conditions for generating roots may comprise transferring the shoots to a suitable medium which induces rooting. The first growth medium may be an agar or agarose nutrient medium, which may also contain a plant growth hormone. The first growth medium may be the modified Murashige and Skoog basal medium of Table 1 to which has been added gibberellic acid, abscissic acid, zeatin trans isomer and kinetin. The conditions for generating shoots may comprise light and a temperature of about 24 C. The second growth medium may be soil. A method of producing The conditions for generating roots may comprise transferring the shoots to a suitable medium which induces rooting. The first growth medium may be an agar or agarose nutrient medium, which may also contain a plant growth hormone. The first growth medium may be the modified Murashige and Skoog basal medium of Table 1 to which has been added gibberellic acid, naphthalene acetic acid, zeatin trans isomer and zeatin riboside. The conditions for generating shoots may comprise light and a temperature of about 24 C. The second growth medium may be soil. As an initial step in the development and production of new varieties to carry exogenous cytoplasmic genes, a strategy is formulated. Broadly stated, donor plants are chosen with an appropriate and desirable genetic trait needed in a recipient species. The particular desirable traits are defined by the commercial requirements of the market e.g. cytoplasmically inherited herbicide, disease toxin, or antibiotic resistances, cytoplasmic male sterility or other cytoplasmically inherited traits , and the farming practice to be used. A specific embodiment of the invention concerns the transfer of triazine resistance by cybridization. Heretofore, many of these traits could not be transferred by normal genetic means, e.g. pollination because the desirable donor and the recipient were not sufficiently related. Even when they are related, the number of crosses and back crosses requires years of work. According to this invention, the breeder can now quickly transfer genetic information between donor and recipient without the need of multiple backcrosses. The procedure is limited only by the cytoplasmic nuclear compatibilities between donor and recipient. Accordingly, the strategy may take advantage of any desirable trait found in any single plant as long as it is cytoplasmically inherited and there is compatibility between the donor and the recipient. Once triazine resistance is transferred from a weed to a crop variety, it may be easier to transfer this trait by specific fusion procedures from one variety to the next than by transfer from the weed itself to the second variety. Stated differently, the breeder is no longer limited to crosses within a species. There is the possibility of utilizing cytoplasmically inherited traits in related species, although how closely related they must be is not clear. The system precludes the need of backcrossing. Moreover, the large number of cybrid fusants that can be regenerated into plants in a single experiment permits optimum selection of true to type varietal derivatives new varieties differing from the parent variety only in the new trait , from among possible somaclonal variants. Conversely, it allows screening for superior somaclonal variants bearing the transferred cytoplasmic trait. It must be ascertained that the trait in question is cytoplasmically inherited. Triazine resistance in maize and in some of the algae is inherited on the nuclear genome. In most weeds and other algae this trait is maternally inherited. The donor plants should be checked for freedom of disease infestation. In a preferred embodiment, a population of 3 10 plants of each of the 3 5 better biotypes are chosen as donor plants. The material should usually be disease and virus free, unless some viral or viral like inherited trait is desirable. Disease and pest free protoplasts can be best obtained from explant material growing under controlled environmental conditions. After designation of the individual parent plants, suitable primary explant tissue must be obtained. The explant is basically a vegetatively propagated cloned material of the parents, grown axenically utilizing tissue culture techniques. Obtaining the primary explant tissue depends largely upon the particular species in question. In highly homozygous, normally self pollinated species such as many of the Solanaceae, it is simplest to surface sterilize seeds and germinate them on a sterile, agar gel mineral medium. In the case of more heterozygous material one must surface sterilize plumules or axillary buds with pieces of stem tissue. In the case of potatos, surface sterilized buds are excised from scrubbed tubers or stem pieces growing out of a germinated sprouted tuber. All treatments following the initial surface washing in detergent, surface sterilization with either hypochlorite, 70 ethanol in water, or mercuric chloride, singly or in sequence, are performed under axenic conditions. Sterile scalpels, forceps and other equipment are used for the actual excision and for transfer of explant tissue. It is desirable that several explants are taken from each plant to ensure the availability of sufficient material and to balance the small amount of microbial contamination and mortality which occur in tissue culture procedures. Aseptic laboratory conditions are maintained for further cloning the explants on sterile mineral medium, with or without addition of various organic nutrients or growth factors. The parental seedlings of explants are further vegetatively propagated to obtain sufficient amounts of genetically similar leaf tissue for obtaining protoplasts. The primary explants or seedlings are allowed to grow until they develop a few internodes on a mineral water, agar gelled medium as above. The media compositions contain a balance of inorganic ions needed for plant growth. Often sucrose or other sugars are added as a carbon source, although in some cases it is desirable to use lights as the sole energy source, via photosynthetic carbon fixation. Explant material usually does not require any nitrogen source more complex than ammonium or nitrate ions, but aminoacids can be added. Vitamins and hormones need not necessarily be supplied, unless a rooting hormone, e.g. auxin, is desired. Such nutrient media are described in many standard references and are known to those of ordinary skill in the art. The nutrient, light and gas balance optimal for growing explants to obtain regenerable protoplasts from the leaves can vary from species to species. The stem explant pieces should be perpendicular to the medium and supported by the medium. Agar or agarose are the most common gelling agents. Such explants are usually grown in sterilized plastic or glass vessels, 3 15 cm deep and with a lid like a petri plate which allows the free diffusion of air but prevents contamination by microorganisms. Usually the apical 1 2 cm pieces are sterily excised from the primary explants, just above a bud, and planted in the same mineral medium at fortnightly to monthly intervals. Regrowth on the primary and secondary explants is similarly excised until sufficient plantlets with leaves are available for producing protoplasts. Depending on the particular species and often on the particular variety, different Protoplasts are usually and preferably prepared from axenically grown, uniform leaf tissue, which is infiltrated with a sterile mixture of cellulases and pectinases in a high osmoticum medium. The infiltration can be performed by cutting the leaves into thin strips which are floated on this medium, by peeling off the epidermis with its hydrophobic cuticle or piercing the tissue with pin size holes. The high osmoticum is usually obtained by using non metabolized or poorly metabolized sugars or sugar alcohols such as mannitol or sorbitol. The effect of the osmoticum is to partially plasmolyze and thus separate the protoplast from the cell wall, and to prevent the protoplast from bursting when the cell wall is removed. The cellulases and pectinases remove the cell wall material, releasing protoplasts into the medium. Because of the high organic content of the media, the multiple manipulations, and the possibility of a minor contamination of explant leaves, it is common to add various antibiotics to the media. These will control minor infestations but can not control massive ones. The elucidation of the optimal mixture of enzymes, the best conditions of infiltration, the concentration of the osmoticum and the mineral medium, the temperature and duration of incubation, the light regime, whether shaking is used, etc. vary from species to species and to some extent, between varieties. The best conditions for obtaining viable and regenerable protoplasts must be determined, mainly empirically, for each case. Many procedures have been published which do work in the laboratory from which they emanated, but are not as good, for unknown reasons, in other laboratories. Various techniques can be used to prevent the nuclei of donor protoplasts from contributing to the fusant plants. We prefer a highly controllable technique involving X rays. Unlike chemical treatments, the dose is given while the machine is on, and stopped once it is turned off. Another disadvantage in using chemicals is that some chemicals do not freely diffuse out of protoplasts. The X ray treatment, can be given to protoplasts themselves or directly to the leaf tissue while it is being incubated with the enzymes, near the end of the incubation period. The donor protoplasts must be washed free of possible toxic products produced by ionization of the medium during X ray irradiation. It had previously been found with Other methods of donor nucleus inactivation may also be used, e.g. chemical inactivation with aphidicolin or hydroxyurea. The protoplasts from the donor with nuclei treated to prevent long term nuclear viability , and the protoplasts from the recipient are separately washed and then mixed together at critical cell densities. Fusion of the protoplasts can be induced by transiently increasing the pH, the divalent cation concentrations particularly calcium or by adding polyethylene glycol either separately or as a mixtures of two or three of the above methods. The critical cell densities, the optimal concentrations of divalent cations, the optimal pH, the optimum polyethylene glycol concentration and average molecular mass, the optimal temperature, the optimal duration of incubation, and the optimal osmoticum are all factors which vary from species to species and variety to variety. These optima are determined for each pair of donor and recipient. To preclude too much self fusion of the recipient and to preclude non fused recipient protoplasts from becoming the predominant product regenerating following the treatment to induce fusion, a few strategies are employed. Conditions can be used whereby a metabolic product under the control of the treated donor nucleus is needed for the first division of the fusant. This strategy was successfully followed for Following the incubation period with the factor or factors promoting fusion, the fusion promoting factors are quickly washed out, to prevent permanent membrane damage, with a series of high osmoticum buffers. Sometimes the fusants are hardened by culturing for a period in a medium which allows better regeneration of a cell wall but precludes division. The mineral, metabolizable sugar, and the inorganic and organic forms of nitrogen and growth factor compositions in the division medium are rather critical and species and variety specific, as are light and temperature conditions. As cells begin division into microcolonies, the osmoticum is lowered by changing the media at intervals. Eventually, healthy micro colonies are picked and transferred to an agar gelled medium with a specific mineral nutrient organic and hormone composition for each situation and calli are allowed to develop. The state of the art of protoplast fusion and regeneration to calli and plants is intensively reviewed in Galun, E. and Aviv, D. 1983 Cytoplasmic Hybridization, Genetic and Breeding Applications, Handbook of Plant Cell Culture, Vol. 1, Editors, Evans, D.A., Sharp W.A. Amirato, P.V. Yamada, Y. Shoots can be regenerated in a single or multistep process. The micro calli can be transferred to a medium which will induce them to commence shoot formation as well as continue to produce certain amounts of undifferentiated callus. Conversely, the micro calli can be transferred to a medium which will support and induce only undifferentitated growth. Such calli grow rapidly and can be continually transferred to the same medium, or pieces can be transferred to a medium with a hormone balance that will induce shoot formation. There should be far less somaclonal variation with the first method. The first method usually yields shoots for testing faster than the second method. Protoplasts which regenerate back to dividing cells can, in some cases, be placed on media which will induce them to develop into embryoids which can then be pseudo germinated to provide seedlings. These seedlings can be cultured as clones by cutting them as outlined in the section on propagating the primary explants. Regenerated plantlets are also carefully observed for marker morphological characteristics so that plantlets with donor nuclear traits can be rogued. After fusion and cell division of the fusants, the plants derived from any given regenerated micro callus usually bear the plastids or mitochondria of either the donor or the recipient. Sometimes this segregation of cytoplasmic genomes to one type or the other occurs only at the level of the individual shoot, and different shoots arising from a given callus can have either parental type. It is thus necessary to screen the shoots that derive directly from the callus. The preferred embodiment is to establish a shoot culture of each shoot separately, and when explants can be removed from that shoot, screening is performed on that explant. The explant medium is prepared with the selector incorporated into it at a concentration which is non lethal to the donor plant and lethal to the recipient prior to introduction of donor cytoplasmic genomes . In the example cited below, atrazine was added to the medium as a selector. Those plants still bearing the recipient traits will become severely inhibited or die, and those with the donor traits remain viable. There may be cases where the selector does not act through a cut stem i.e. where it must be applied to roots or conversely where it must be applied directly to leaf tissue. There are also possibilities that medium components such as sugars, organic or inorganic nitrogen sources, or growth regulators could counteract the effect of the selector. Such possibilities must be taken into consideration and protocols under all the above circumstances must be modified accordingly. Shoots screened and found to have the desired traits are transferred to a mineral medium with a different hormone composition to induce rooting. Following rooting, plants can be transferred to pots, sometimes with steps designed to harden them to the environmental impact of leaving highly controlled sterile conditions, with high humidity and optimal mineral nutrition. Such potted plants can be greenhouse or field grown. Plants derived from a fusant must have an acceptably uniform phenotype and similarity to the parent variety or inbred to be of significant commercial interest. It also must have a yield, at least close to the yield potential and quality of the parent, for the new trait to be cost beneficial. The trait in question must be stable through meiosis in the case of seed propagated crops, or through long term vegetative propagation. When the procedure of the present invention is followed, most of the plants that have passed the initial screen should stably bear the cytoplasmically inherited trait. A small proportion may still have the mixed cytoplasm of the fusant, and segregation will occur in plants regenerated from fusant calli. In our experience, stability is soon obtained, even in such mosaics. The easiest procedure is to grow up sufficient numbers of plants from each screened calli clone 4 10 so that semiclonal variants, i.e. variants containing nuclear traits and any other variants not true to the derived form, can often be discarded. Regenerated plants can be kept under constant selection by the selector so that segregants or mosaics containing the undesirable recipient cytoplasmic traits can also be removed. In practice, after uniformity, and stability through propagation have been established, it is desirable to verify them by field trials, which are also necessary to determine yield and to determine if the donor cytoplasm has conferred undesirable as well as the desirable trait characteristics on the fusants. Field trials pilot production are conducted on a semi commercial scale to verify that the desired trait was conferred, that the variety or line is true to form, and that yields are normal. The advantage of the culture techniques is that a large number of clonal plants can quickly be produced for such trials. At the field trial level, performance of selected fusion calli clones, derived from experiments using different donor strains and different recipient lines of the same variety or inbred, can be monitored, and any problems can be detected before full scale commercial production and testing begins. If problems are sufficiently serious with any lines used, the calli clones can be discarded, possibly the parent clones as well, if they are defective when fused to various lines. Once fusant derived new varieties have been grown to maturity and harvested to provide pre commercial verification in the field trials, full scale commercial production of propagules, e.g. seeds, tubers, etc., can begin. Both the material from the field tests and the calli clones in the laboratory can be used to rapidly obtain sufficient plant material for such a scale up. The technique of the present invention is applicable to transferring a wide variety of desirable cytoplasmically inherited traits. The only limitation seems to be interspecific compatibilities, between cytoplasm and nuclear genomes in such cases. The extent of such compatabilities and incompatabilities is presently being studied in many laboratories. Such known characteristics worthy of transfer are resistance to certain herbicides which inhibit photosynthesis, e.g. the triazine, phenylurea and uracil groupings and possibly many others as well. Other characteristics include resistance to the toxic principles of some phytopathogenic fungi and traits such as cytoplasmic male sterility. In the case of herbicide resistance vegetable crops and many field crops are particularly valuable candidates for use in this invention. Triazine herbicides such as atrazine are among the least expensive on the market, provide a broad spectrum of weed control, and have sufficient residual activity to provide control throughout the season with a single preemergence application. Potatos and Solanaceous crops are especially good candidates as they need cheaper cost effective weed control. Herbicides are not developed by the chemical industry especially for the small market of such crops. The legal licensing for the new use of a well established herbicide such as atrazine is also simple mainly residue studies are needed. As triazine resistance in weeds becomes a greater problem, maternally inherited resistance to other herbicides which kill the newly evolved triazine resistant weeds can be transferred in an intervarietal manner. It is sufficient to obtain such resistance in one variety and it can be transferred to others by the methods of this invention. In substance, therefore, the methods of the invention provide methods of rapidly developing and commercially producing new, commercially useful plant varieties and inbreds containing important desirable cytoplasmically inherited traits. The methods comprise steps of a obtaining clones of donors with the trait and recipients needful of said trait b obtaining protoplasts from donor and recipient c causing the nuclear genome of the donor to not be inherited in the final product d fusing the donor and recipient protoplasts, regenerating them to calli and plantlets or other types of propagules e screening the resulting plantlets for trueness to form of the recipient and for the presence and genetic stability of the desired trait which was transferred, and propagating and testing the resultant material. In this example, the maternally inherited triazine resistance trait which evolved in the weed The seeds were planted in polycarbonate sterile culture containers of a diameter of 8.5 cm and a height of 11 cm, containing 50 ml Murashige and Skoog Basal Medium Table I . The medium was gelled with 1 Bacto Agar Difco . Germination and growth were at 25 C under cool white fluorescent lighting giving 6000 7000 lux. Twenty to twenty five seeds were planted in each dish. More than 90 germination occurred within 5 days. Dishes were thinned so as to contain 5 healthy, rapidly growing seedlings each. The leaves were used directly for obtaining protoplasts. Every 3 4 weeks, the upper half of each plant was excised with or without the leaves and transplanted to fresh medium. The leaves are used for protoplast preparation. Healthy tubers of Explants were grown on the same M S basal medium as the donor Table 1 but with only 1 sucrose and 0.8 agar. Explants were transferred in the same manner as for the donor every 3 4 weeks. a Two grams of 4 week old leaves of triazine resistant The medium also contains final concentrations of the following enzymes 0.25 Cellulase Onozuka R 10 and 0.05 Macerozyme R 10 both from Kinki Yakult, Nishinomiya Japan and 0.125 Driselase Kyowa Hakko Kogyo Co, Ltd, Tokyo, Japan . The enzymes were presterilized by vacuum filtration, one time, through a 0.22 micrometer pore Nalgene sterile filtration apparatus. Similarly filter sterilized ampicillin sodium salt and Kasugamycin hemi sulfate were added to give final concentrations of 1 mg l each. Leaf tissue and enzymes were incubated in 9 cm diameter sterile plastic petri dishes specially coated for tissue culture Mediplast Ein Shemer, Israel, type TC for 16h in the dark at 24 C. One group of 3 week old leaves from axenically cultivated explants was pricked as in section a, and incubated on 10 ml of a modified N M medium Table 2 to which were added the following enzymes final concentrations 0.05 Pectolyase Y 23 Seishin Pharmaceutical Co, Tokyo, Japan 0.1 Driselase Kyowa Hakko Hogyo Co. Ltd. Tokyo, Japan 1 Meicellase Meiji Seika Kaisha Ltd. Tokyo, Japan . These enzymes were filter sterilized as above. The same antibiotic mixture was used as in Section a. Incubation was for 16 hours, at 24 C in the dark. NOTE Other varieties of potatos, and other species have other optimal enzyme mixes, incubation times etc . In preliminary experiments we had found that doses up to a rate of 5000 rad of x rays were sufficient to keep protoplasts of The ionizing radiation of the donor can cause the formation of potentially toxic free radicals and their products. It is thus necessary to immediately wash the protoplasts as follows using medium Table 3 . The donor, protoplasts were rinsed 2 more times at 500 x adjusted to pH 5.8 with NaOH and autoclaved. Donor and recipient protoplasts were mixed after removing an aliquot for non fused controls in a ratio of two donor to one recipient and a final protoplast density of The pH was adjusted to 5.6 with NaOH and the material was filter sterilized through a 0.22 micrometer Nalgene filter. This medium is a modification of Adams and Townsend 1983 and Michayluk 1975 Bokelmann 1983 . Note Ammonium ions in such medium were found to be toxic to the fusion products. Protoplasts were kept in the growth room under 150 lux for one week until after the first division and then maintained at 1500 lux for an additional month. 10 days after the fusion, the osmoticum was lowered by adding to each dish, 1 ml of protoplast regeneration medium also containing 36 g l mannitol. The osmoticum was again lowered 5 days later, by adding to each dish an additional 1 ml. of protoplast regeneration medium which also containing 36g l mannitol. A third and fourth lowering of osmiticum were done 5 and 7 days later respectively using 1 ml protoplast regeneration medium Table 4 each time except with no mannitol in the regeneration medium. By this time microcalli of about 3 mm in diameter were obtained. The microcalli were transferred to a 1 agar gelled medium for callus growth. This medium was M S medium Table 1 to which were added 1 mg l naphthalene acetic acid and 0.1 mg l zeatin trans isomer . The micro calli were incubated on this medium for about 6 weeks at 24 C, 1500 lux until the calli reached about 7 mm diameter. The calli were transferred in the following medium which was found to be excellent for the regeneration of shoots from protoplast derived calli of potatos cv. Mirka. M S medium Table 1 to which 0.1 mg l gibberellic acid, 0.2 mg l abscissic acid, 10 mg l zeatin trans isomer and 10 mg l kinetin. Of all potato varieties used so far, only cv Mirka requires such a high level of cytokinins for shoot regeneration. These levels prevent shoot regeneration in all other varieties tested. These were incubated at 1500 lux at 24 C. Shoots began appearing two weeks later. When the shoots were 5 to 6 mm long, the small leaves were examined for signs of The chloroplast genomes of potatoes and About two thirds of the fusant explants and all of the controls became severely chlorotic within 7 10 days. Both the chlorotic offspring and these primary fusant explant lines were discarded. If all explants from a given calli clone were chlorotic, the callus too was discarded. The deep green explants not affected by atrazine were returned to fresh explant medium and allowed to continue growing for further propagation and rechecking on atrazine medium. As atrazine is slowly photodegraded to metabolites that are potentially toxic at the concentration used, the test cannot be continued indefinitely. In soil culture, photodegradation of atrazine is not a problem. Stem explants of calli clonal lines of Potato explants growing in the M S medium Table 1 but with 0.8 agar and 1 sucrose normally form roots within a week, and after a few weeks have a sufficient root system for transferring to a growth medium for ultimate potting. Rooted explants were removed from the agar, excess agar washed off with sterile distilled water and transferred to pre autoclaved Jiffy Pots Jiffy Products Ltd. Norway which were saturated with water, inside a sterile container. After a few weeks growth in the growth room at 6000 lux, the covers were removed and the plants first placed in a high humidity chamber, for two days. The plants were then transferred to a standard greenhouse, with the Jiffy pots placed whole into a standard potting soil. In this example, the maternally inherited triazine resistance trait which evolved in the After protoplast isolation and washing, but before fusion, the protoplasts were treated with 0.25mM iodoacetate Aldrich in CPW medium Table 3 for 30 minutes. This treatment inactivates the organelles of the recipient, giving a higher percentage of triazine resistant fusion regenerants. MS medium Table 1 was modified by adding 0.1 mg l gibberellic acid, 0.01 mg l Naphthalene acetic acid, 2mg l zeatin trans isomer and 1mg l zeatin riboside. This regeneration medium does not work for cv. Mirka, but is excellent for Desiree and many other cultivars. Stems from Rooted explants were removed from the agar and transferred to Jiffy Pot s and grown in the growth room at 6000 lux for two days. The plants were then transferred to a standard greenhouse and were tested for field resistance using commercial grade atrazine at a 1kg ha rate equivalent to applied to the soil. Stem explants of calli clonal lines of Adams, T.L. and Townsend, S.A. 1983 A new procedure for increasing efficiency of protoplast relating and clone selection. Binding, H., Jain, S. M., Finger, J., Mordhorst, G., Nehls, R., and Gressel, J., 1982 Somatic hybridization of an atrazine resistant biotype of Bokelmann, G.S. and Roset, S. 1983 Plant regeneration from protoplast of potato Frearson, E.N., Power, J.B. and Cooking, E.C. 1973 The isolation, culture and regeneration of Petunia leaf protoplasts. Gressel, J. 1985 Biotechnologically conferring herbicide resistance in crops The present realities. in Gressel, J., Ezra, G. and Jain, S.M. 1982 Genetic and chemical manipulation of crops to confer tolerance to chemicals. In J.S. McLaren, ed., Gressel, J., Cohen, N. and Binding, H. 1984 Somatic hybridization of an atrazine resistant biotype of Gressel, J., Zilkah, S. and Esra, G. 1978 Herbicide action, resistance and screening in cultures vs. plants. In Kao, K.M. and Michayluk, M.R. 1975 Nutritional requirements for growth of Murashige, T. and Skoog, F. 1962 A revised medium for rapid growth and bio assays with tobacco time cultures, Nagy, J.I. and Maliga, P. 1976 Callus induction and plant regeneration from mesophyll protoplasts of Souza Machado, V. Inheritance and breeding potential of triazine tolerance and resistance in plants. In Zelcer, A., Aviv, D. and Galun, E. 1978 Interspecific transfer of cytoplasmic male sterility by fusion between protoplasts of normal