# A roller guide device for a rolling mill.

## Abstract
There is disclosed a roller guide device for guiding elongate rolling material 3 to a pair of rolls 9a, 9b of a rolling mill and comprising a first pair of lateral guide rollers 10a, 10b which are arranged adjacent to the entry to the rolls 9a, 9b and which rotate about substantially vertical axes, and a second pair of longitudinal rollers 14a, 14b which are arranged upstream of, but close to the first pair of rollers 10a, 10b and which rotate about substantially horizontal axes. The two pairs of guide rollers define a guide path 23 to the rolling mill, and are mounted on a housing 7 which is carried in cantilever manner by a base 32 of the guide device which is mounted on a rest bar 37 of the rolling mill. The first pair of lateral rollers 10a, 10b are mounted on the ends of spring loaded levers which resilient ly resist movement of the rollers in a direction away from the guide path 23 , whereas the second pair of longitudinal rollers 14a, 14b are mounted on fixed portions 15, 16 of the housing 7 via eccentric roller pins 17a, 17b which are angularly adjustable in order to vary the clearance between the longitudinal rollers 14a, 14b .

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A roller guide device for guiding elongate rolling material 3 to a rolling mill 9a,9b and comprising guide rollers 10a,10b,4a,14b mounted rotatably on a housing 7 so as to define a guide path 23 to the rolling mill, characterised in that the guide rollers comprise a first pair of lateral rollers 10a,10b rotatable about a first pair of substantially parallel axes and a second pair of longitudinal rollers 14a, 14b rotatable about a second pair of substantially parallel axes which extend perpendicular to the first pair of axes. 2. A roller guide device according to claim 1, characterised in that the first pair of lateral rollers 10a,10b are arranged adjacent to the entrance to a pair of rolls 9a,9b of the rolling mill and said first pair of axes extend substantially vertically. 3. A roller guide device according to claim 1 or 2, characterised in that the first pair of lateral rollers 10a,10b are each mounted on one end of a respective spring biased lever 8a,8b which is pivotally mounted on the housing 7 via a pivot 11a,11b and which resiliently resists movement of the roller in a direction away from the guide path 23 . 4. A roller guide device according to claim 3, characterised in that a ratchet mechanism 12 is coupled with the opposed ends of the levers 8a,8b and is operable to adjust the clearance between the lateral rollers 10a,10b . 5. A roller guide device according to any one of claims 1 to 4, characterised in that the longitudinal rollers 14a,14b are each rotatably mounted on a respective fixed portion 14,16 of the housing 7 via eccentric pins 17a,17b which are angularly adjustable in order to vary the clearance between the longitudinal rollers 14a,14b . 6. A roller guide device according to claim 5, characterised in that a worm and worm gear drive 25a,26a 25b,26b is coupled with each eccentric pin 17a,17b for angularly adjusting the latter. 7. A roller guide device according to claim 6, characterised in that a respective shaft drive 27a, 27b is coupled with each worm gear drive. 8. A roller guide device according to claim 7, characterised in that the shaft drives 27a,27b are mounted on a common pedestal 28 . 9. A roller guide device according to any one of claims 1 to 8, characterised in that the housing 7 is mounted in cantilever manner on a base 32 of the guide device which is mounted on a rest bar 37 of a rolling mill. 10. A roller guide device according to any one of claims 1 to 9, characterised in that a two part entry guide 29a,29b is mounted on the housing 7 so as to guide the entry of elongate rolling material 3 into the guide device.

## Description
A ROLLER GUIDE DEVICE FOR A ROLLING MILL This invention relates to a roller guide device for guiding elongate rolling material to a rolling mill. There are two main types of roller guide device which are usually used to guide elongate rolling material e.g. bar or rod, to a rolling mill. There is the single roller type which comprises a pair of guide rollers built into a roller holder, and the double roller type in which two pair sets of guide rollers are built into the roller holder, for example as shown inJapanese Patent Laid Open Publication No.54 25,254. Reference should now be made to Figures 8 to 11 of the accompanying drawings, which illustrate the construction of the known types of roller guide referred to above, so that the drawbacks thereof can be described. Either type of roller guide is constructed in such a way as to carry out its embracing function with respect to the rolling material only in a direction along the axis of the roll. Thus, as shown inFigures 8 to 10, the shaft 1A of guide roller 1 directly crosses the vertical shaft 2A of roll 2.For this reason, the roller guide usually used has the inconvenience that the pass line 6 see Figure 9 of rolling material 3 deviates towards the side of the shaft of the roll 2, the material then deviates from the calibre centre of the guide roller, as shown inFigure 11, and is caused to cling or adhere to the flange 1B of the roller calibre, thereby damaging the material. In addition, this is often a factor in giving unbalanced abrasion to the rollers, because of the one sided load exerted on the roller calibre.Especially in the case of rolling stands of rod and wire materials, as shown in Figure 9, if the calibre 5B, being at a correct position of the horizontal stand, is slightly deflected to one side of the pass line, as shown by deviated calibre 5A, the material 3, when entering through the horizontal stands into the vertical stand, will obliquely enter the guide roller and cling to the roller flange ib, as shown in Figure 11. To ensure the dimensional accuracy of the material 3, moreover, the material is normally controlled at a rolling speed to such an extent as to form a curved path 3A see Figure 9 between respective stands. The guide rollers normally used fail to control this curved path, which leads to a clinging to the roller flange or mis rolling. In Figure 9, 4 is a horizontal roll. In order to obviate the above problem, the following customary example is proposed As shown in theJapanese utility model laid open publication No.5877709, there is a device that keeps on pressing the guide roller against the material by use of an oil hydraulic cylinder until the material passes beyond the guide roller. There is another example, as shown in the Japanese utility model laid open publicationNo.57 56506, in which a horizontal twist roller which gives a twist to the material and a longitudinal type fixed roller which guides the material into the roll calibre are disposed at given intervals respectively at the rear side and at the front side, and a tip inductive guide is provided between the rollers located at the front and rear sides, the guide being united inside a guide box or housing.In this example, the horizontal twist roller gives a twist to the material, and the material is guided into the longitudinal type fixed roller through the tip inductive guide. However, the example in the former case has the disadvantage that the material can positively be prevented from being vibrated in a horizontal direction by hydraulic means, but can not be prevented from being vibrated in a longitudinal direction. The example in the latter case has also the disadvantage that the tip inductive guide provided between the rollers located at the rear and front sides undergoes abrasion because the material comes in touch with the tip inductive guide and this enhances frictional mars on the material, thus resulting in abrasion of the roller.This inconvenience is presumed to be more accelerated when the device is provided after an intermediate looper and repeater mechanism which are provided in a rolling mill. If, considering such inconvenience, the tip inductive guide is not provided in this example, the material will define a secondary loop between the rollers located far apart from each other and can not be fed stably in a right posture into the rolling mill. The invention therefore has been developed primarily with a view to prevent, or at least minimise the rolling material from being vibrated mis rolling, the growth of clinging mar to the material and roller abrasion and to provide stable feeding in a correct posture into the roll calibre, and to simplify the construction without requiring a tip inductive guide. According to the invention there is provided a roller guide device for guiding elongate rolling material to a rolling mill and comprising guide rollers mounted rotatably on a housing so as to define a guide path to the rolling mill, characterised in that the guide rollers comprise a first pair of lateral rollers rotatable about a first pair of substantially parallel axes and a second pair of longitudinal rollers rotatable about a second pair of substantially parallel axes which extend perpendicular to the first pair of axes. One embodiment of roller guide device according to the invention, for guiding elongate rolling material to a rolling mill, will now be described in detail, by way of example only, with reference to the accompanying drawings, in which Figure 1 is a front view of the roller guide device Figure 2 is a plan view of the roller guide device Figure 3 is a side view of the roller guide device Figure 4 is a partly sectional side view of a longitudinal guide roller of the guide device Figure 5 is a schematic illustration of the dimensions of lateral and longitudinal guide rollers of the device, and the embracing state of rolling material between the rollers Figure 6 is a graph illustrating the relationship between the distance between the lateral and longitudinal guide rollers, and a mis rolling rate Figure 7 is a graph illustrating the relationship between the distance between the rollers and the growth rate of clinging mar and the abrasion imparted to the roller in a case in which a tip inductive guide is provided Figure 8 illustrates the normal embracing state of guide rollers Figure 9 illustrates the mode of use of guide rollers in a customary example Figure 10 is a view illustrating a roll of a rolling mill, and the guide roller in a customary example and Figure 11 illustrates deformation of the rolling material so as to cling onto the guide rollers during mis rolling. The preferred embodiment of roller guide device according to the invention will now be described in detail, with reference to Figures 1 to 4. The roller guide device serves to guide elongate rolling material 3 to a pair of entry rolls 9a,9b of a rolling mill not shown in detail and comprises a housing in the form of a guide box 7 on which is mounted a pair of roller holders 8a,8b symmetrically arranged with the guide box 7 located therebetween. Both the roller holders 8a,8b are made of flexible members and are pivotally mounted on fulcrum pins 11a,11b in the guide box. The ends of the roller holders 8a,8b are close to the entrance to the rolls 9a,9b, and are provided with a first pair of lateral guide rollers 10a,10b pivoted on the free ends of the holders 8a,8b via pins, for guiding the material 3 into the entrance to the rollers 9a,9b.The roller holders 8a,8b are provided at the rear ends with a ratchet 12 and a tension spring 18. The ratchet 12 serves to adjust the open angle of the ends of roller holders 8a,8b, and the spring 13 functions to return the ends of roller holders 8a,8b by its tensile force to their original positions. The rollers 10a, 1Ob are rotatable about parallel vertical axes. On one side of lateral rollers 10alb righthand in Figure 1 and Figure 2 is disposed a second pair of longitudinal guide rollers 14a,14b closely on the upper and lower sides, and the longitudinal rollers are of the same dimensions as the lateral rollers, but rotate about parallel horizontal axes. As shown in Figure 2 and Figure 4, the longitudinal rollers 14a,14b are respectively fitted on eccentric roller pins 17a,17b pivoted to fixed projecting pieces 15,16 integrally formed with the guide box 7. The longitudinal rollers 14a,14b are fitted pivotally on the pins 17a,17b by taper roller bearings disposed at the axial part InFigure 4 is shown only a taper roller bearing 18a .19 is a thrust washer and 20 is a thrust ring. The embracing amount i.e. clearance in which rolling material can be accommodated, of longitudinal rollers 14a,14b can be adjusted by an adjusting means. A description will now be made with regard to the adjusting mechanism at the longitudinal roller 14a located on the upper side. The eccentric roller pin 17a is provided at one end lefthand in Figure 4 with an eccentric piece 21a. The eccentric piece is fixed by a key 22a. It is provided at another end with a worm gear 25a which is situated outside the projecting piece 16. The gear 25a is in meshing relation with a worm gear 26a, which is fitted on a centering shaft 27a. The adjusting mechanism for the lower longitudinal roller 14b is substantially identical to that of the upper longitudinal roller 14a a gear 25b on the side of the roller 14b is in meshing relation with a worm gear 26b fitted on a centering shaft 27b. Turning the centering shafts 27a, 27b allows the longitudinal rollers 14a,114b to draw near to or to separate from the pass line side 24 in a horizontal direction as shown in Figure 4 depending upon the displacement amount of the eccentric roller pins 17a,17b. Centering shafts 27a, 27b are supported on a pedestal 28. In Figure 4, 23 is a pass line in a longitudinal direction. As can be seen from Figure 1 to Figure 3, two part split entry guides 29a,29b are put together at the upper and lower ends by a guide bar 30 and are fixed to the internal centre of guide box 7 by a tap bolt 31. The guide box 7 is supported in a cantilever manner on a cassette base 32 and is fixed by clamps 33a, 33b and clamping bolts 34a,34b. In Figure 2, 35 is an acute angled piece. As shown in Figure 3, moreover, the cassette base 32 is fixed on a rest bar 37 of a rolling mill by tightening a cotter 36 with a cotter bolt 38. 39 is a locking piece for the rest bar 37, and 40 denotes clamping slope. Next, an explanation will be given with regard to the operation. By operation of the ratchet 12 in advance, opening and closing of the pair of roller holders 8a,8b in the form of with fulcrum pins 11a,11b placed as fulcrums , adjusts the embracing force of the lateral rollers 10a,10b at the ends of the roller holder for its strength in the longitudinal direction of the material 3. In this case, the distance set between the surfaces of lateral rollers 10a,10b is almost identical to the dimension of the material 3. The distance between the longitudinal rollers 14a,14b is set to be wider by a small amount than the dimension of the material 3, by operating the adjusting means 25a,25b, 26a,26b by means of the centering shafts 27a,27b.The material 3 is embraced horizontally by longitudinal rollers 14a,14b and then embraced in a longitudinal direction by lateral rollers 10a,10b and is guided inductively into the entrance of the rolls 9a,9b. The distance between the lateral rollers 10a and lOb is adjusted, and the holders 8a,8b become flexible because of their resilient properties, and accordingly, the rollers can embrace the material strongly and always adhere closely to the material with its embracing force maintained strongly while pliably corresponding with a little dimensional change that may arise from a tip crack or bend, etc. of the material 3. The longitudinal rollers 14a,14b are supported by the projecting pieces 15,16 made of rigid construction, and they can embrace the material 3 strongly, as shown inFigure 4, and can sufficiently correspond with the material that swings in a horizontal direction. In addition, the short distance between the lateral and longitudinal rollers can control any vibration of the material 3, and the material will not describe a secondary loop between the rollers. The roller guides described above were arranged after an intermediate looper and repeater for rolling wire materials, and tests were conducted under premise as given below. Simultaneously, for the said roller guides having a tip inductive guide provided between lateral and longitudinal roller, tests were conducted under the same conditions. Premise 1 Rolling Speed Max 5 m sec 2 Type of Rolled Steel SWRH 62A 3 Size of Material 21.0 31.Oomm 4 Rolling Temperature Approx. 920or 5 The dimensions of respective lateral and longitudinal rollers and the embracing amount between respective rollers are shown in Figure 5 and Table 1. 6 The distance 1 between lateral and longitudinal rollers is given its level 1,1D, 2D, 3D, 4D, 5D based upon the diameter of Roller D . 7 Material of Roller Holder JIS SUP9 Considering the above conditions, investigations were made into the rate of miss rolling, growth rate of clinging mar and amount of abrasion of the roller. As a result, in the double roller guide device of the embodiment of the present invention, having no tip inductive guide between lateral and longitudinal rollers, as shown in the full line in Fig. 6, the rate of missrolling between the lateral roller and the longitudinal roller tends to increase as the distance 1 between rollers is made wider. The tip portion of the material 3 is not restrained by the tip inductive guide, and is thus caused to cling to the flange of lateral rollers 10a, 1Ob, resulting in missrolling. When the tip inductive guide is provided between rollers, on the contrary, the rate of missrolling, as shown by a dotted line in Fig. 6, comes to be the same level as the rate of missrolling for single roller dot and chain line in Fig. 6 . Although the rate of missrolling can be reduced by providing the tip inductive guide, there is a defect that, as shown in Fig. 7, the growth rate of clinging mar is increased because of the material coming in touch with the tip inductive guide and of the unbalanced abrasion of the guide.Furthermore, the amount of abrasion of the roller is encouraged in proportion to increase of clinging mar.This revealed that there is little advantage for providing the tip inductive guide between lateral roller and longitudinal roler. In the embodiment of the present invention, it is desirable to determine the distance 1 between lateral and longitudinal rollers to be les than 3D when considering decrease in the growth rate of clinging mar and the unbalanced amount of abrasion of the roller in terms of restrained missroling rate. Especially, if the distance 1 between the rollers is supposed approx. 1. 1D, the rate of missrolling will be lower as compared with that for single roller as shown inFig. 6, and even without having the tip inductive guide, there is no growth of clinging mar of material, and the amount of roller abrasion will never be encouraged by clinging mar. The roller guide can be applied to both an intermediate rolling line and a finish rolling line. Desirably, it is applied to the intermediate rolling line, particularly where wire rods in the line after the looper and repeater are caused to shake violently up and down or to and fro. As in the above example, moreover, if the lateral and longitudinal rollers are made of one identical dimension, manufacture of the rollers can be controlled with ease, thereby enabling to minimize the production cost. However, of course, both the rollers may be of different dimensions.