# Biosynthetic polysaccharide and process.

## Abstract
A novel biosynthetic polysaccharide has a Brookfield viscosity, in 0.25 aqueous solution, of at least about 2000 mPa.s. It is prepared by aerobic fermentation of the ATCC 31961 organism in a medium containing a carbon source, deionized water and hydrolysed soy protein.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A process for preparing a biosynthetic polysaccharide having a Brookiield viscosity, in 0.25 aqueous solution, of at least about 2000 mPas. that comprises aerobic fermentation of the Alcaligenes organism ATCC 31961, characterized in that the fermentation is carried out in a deionized aqueous nutrient medium containing a carbon source and hydrolysed soy protein. 2. A process as claimed in Claim 1 In which the medium additionally contains K2HPO4, NH4 NO3, M gSO4.7H20, MnC12 and an antifoam agent. 3. A process as claimed in Claim 1 or 2 in which the protein is a papain hydrolysed soybean meal extract. 4. A process as claimed in Claim 1 in which the medium contains up to 3 corn syrup, 0.05 to 0.5 K2HPO4, up to 0.09 NH4NO3, up to 1 ppm MgS04.7H20, up to 0.2 HY SOY and up to 0.04 Mazu. 5. A process as claimed in Claim 4 in which the medium also contains a trace of added MnCl2. 6. A biosynthetic polysaccharide obtainable by a process as claimed in any one of Claims 1 to 5. 7. A biosynthetic polysaccharide having a Brookfield viscosity, in 0.25 aqueous solution, of about 2000 mPa.s and higher. 8. A process for preparing an S 194 dialdehyde complex that comprises mixing 0.02 5 by weight of a dialdehyde with S 194 at 50 150 C at a mildly acidic pH. 9. A process as claimed in Claim 8 in which the dialdehyde is glyoxal. 10. A process as claimed in Claim 8 or 9 in which the dialdehyde is mixed with the S 194 in solution. 11. A process as claimed in Claim 10 in which the solution is of S 194 fermentate. 12. A process as claimed in Claim 8 or 9 in which the dialdehyde is dry mixed with the S 194. 13. A process as claimed in Claim 8 or 9 in which the dialdehyde is mixed with the S 194 in an alcohol water mixture.

## Description
BIOSYNTHETIC POLYSACCHARIDE AND PROCESS The invention is concerned with a high viscosity biosynthetic polysaccharide and its preparation by aerobic fermentation. U.S. Patent Specification US A 4,401,760 describes the general preparation of a polysaccharide by aerobic fermentation of the Alcaligenes microorganism ATCC 31961. A specific process has been developed by which the polysaccharide prepared by aerobic fermentation of the said microorganism has a viscosity, in 0.25 aqueous solution, of over about 2000 mPas Brookfield 3 rpm,No. 2 spindle . In accordance with one embodiment of the invention, a biosynthetic polysaccharide having a Brookfield Model LVT or LVF viscosity, in 0.25 weight aqueous solution, of at least about 2000 mPas is prepared by aerobic fermentation of the Alcaligenes organism ATCC 31961 in a deionized aqueous nutrient medium containing a carbon source and a hydrolysed soy protein. Preparation of the culture seed and general fermentation conditions, except the nutrient medium, are substantially the same as those disclosed in the said US A 4,401,760. A characterizing feature of the present invention is the nutrient medium composition. The composition contains the following major essential ingredients a carbon source, a hydrolysed soy protein and deionized water. Useful carbon sources are water soluble materials such as corn syrup and glucose. Useful hydrolysed soy protein includes enzyme hydrolysed soybean meal and preferably a papain hydrolysed soybean meal extract. Viscosity as used herein is that measured using a Brookfield ModelLVT or LVF viscometer, No. 2 spindle at 3 rpm. Another embodiment of the invention is the polysaccharide having the high viscosity over about 2000 and obtainable by the process described herein. Other identifying characteristics of the polysaccharide will be provided below. A further embodiment is the treatment of high viscosity S 194 of this invention with dialdehyde of from 2 to 8 carbon atoms, preferably glyoxal, to form a complex which is readily dispersible in water. The complex is formed by reacting 0.02 to 5 by weight dialdehyde based on dry weight of S 194. The reaction takes place at about 500 1500C, preferably 600 1200C, in mildly acidic pH, about 5.2 6.0. Any of various means can be used to effect the reaction. For example, dialdehyde may be added to S 194 fermentate prior to or during precipitation. Alternatively, dry S 194 powder may be reconstituted with water or in a water alcohol mixture and then reacted with dialdehyde. Instead of fully hydrating the S 194, a lesser amount of water can be used to produce a slurry wherein the reaction occurs. The reaction also can be effected by dry mixing, i.e., using dry ingredients. Using this method S 194 and dialdehyde are intimately intermixed as in a tumbler or by using a mortar and pestle.While tumbling the S 194, dialdehyde can also be sprayed thereon. These and similar processes are within the scope of this embodiment. A further embodiment is the dialdehyde S 194 complex, comprising 0.02 to 58 dialdehyde and high viscosity 5 194. The uses of this polysaccharide include those described in U.S. 4,401,760 as well as use in preparing coal in water slurries containing 60 or more ground coal. Following are examples illustrating preparation of polysaccharides, including those of the present invention. Mesh sizes are U.S. standards, unless otherwise indicated. EXAMPLE 1 The fermentation procedure described in U.S.4,401,760 was used to prepare the polysaccharides.The fermentor medium used was that, substantially as set out below, and disclosed in U.S. 4,401,760,Column 5 lines 10 17. Fermentor Medium A Tap Water 3.0 Glucose 0.05 R2HPO4 0.20 PROMOSOY 100 0.018 MgS04.7H2O 0.09 NH4NO3 0.01 0.05 Antifoam Soy protein concentrate obtained fromCentral Soya All fermentations reported herein were run to substantially complete depletion of the carbon source. The fermentation was carried out in commercial fermentors. Following is a tabulation of a number of fermentation batches and viscosity of the polysaccharide products in 0.25 aqueous solution, using a Brookfield viscometer Model LVT or LVF , No.2 spindle, at 3 rpm. 0.25 Batch Viscosity 1 2000 2 1600 3 1900 4 1250 5 1950 6 340 7 1050 8 1300 9 1450 10 1500 11 1550 Avg. 1444 Corn syrup was substituted for glucose in the fermentation medium. EXAMPLE 2 S 194 type polysaccharides were prepared using substantially the same fermentation procedure as in Example 1 but substituting corn syrup for glucose, deionized D.I. water for tap water and HYSOY T for PROMOSOY in the fermentor medium A formula. HY SOY T is a papain digested soybean meal extract obtained from Sheffield Products, a Division of Kraft, Inc. Following is a tabulation of data for S 194 batches so prepared. 0.25 Batch Viscosity A 2310 B 2210 C 2240 D 2770 E 3160 F 2600 G 2470 H 2780 I 2620 J 2150 K 1380 L 2560 M 2490 N 2790 0 2770 P 2100 Avg. 2462 Suspected contamination with tap water or culture was weak. The data in the tables above clearly demonstrate that the use of a HY SOY and D.I. water in the fermentor medium Example 2 allows preparation of a S 194 type polysaccharide having a 0.25 aqueous solution Brookfield viscosity of consistently over about 2000. One advantage of the present high viscosity 2000 cP polysaccharide over the lower viscosity polysaccharide, e.g. of Example 1, is that it is a more efficient suspending or stabilizing agent in aqueous systems e.g. in coal in water suspensions and the like. Thus, less of the high viscosity polysaccharide is required to prepare a suspension, resulting in a cost saving. EXAMPLE 3 Dialdehyde Treated S 194 Two S 194 fermentation beers using D.I.water and 6 corn syrup were prepared. containing 2.3 and 1.35S gum. Samples were treated with various amounts of glyoxal 40 solution and the products tested for dispersibility according to the test method. The data are shown in Table 3 1. The following procedures were used. The pH was adjusted to 5.2 or 6.0. Following glyoxal addition. the beer was pasteurized to 700C for 4 5 minutes and then cooled to 40 C. The S 194 was then precipitated with 3 volumes of isopropanol azeotrope 87.7S IPA in water . The precipitated gum was dried, milled through a 40 mesh screen. and tested for dispersibility. TABLE 3 1 2.3X FERHENTATE 1.35X FERMENTATE pH 6.1 5.2 5.2 5.2 6.0 6.0 6.0 6.0 6.0 wt of 40X 0 0 0.75 1.13 0 0 0.21 0.34 0.41 gly 500g beerDispers Poor Poor Good Good Poor Poor Poor Fair Good ibility DISPERSIBILITY TEST METHOD 1. 2 g of 40 mesh product is rapidly added to the side of the vortex caused by stirring at 800 rpm with a standard laboratory flat bladed propeller 198 ml of STW in a 400 ml beaker.2. After 30 seconds of stirring, the beaker is removed and the contents poured through a 20 mesh Tyler screen or equivalent.3. The product is Judged dispersible if there are no product lumps on the screen. D.I. water containing 1000 ppm NaCl and 147 ppm CaC12.2H2O.