# Metal working fluid composition.

## Abstract
A water soluble metal working composition is provided which comprises a relatively large alkoxylated amine, an alkanolamine and an acid derived compound selected from organic acids, inorganic acids, and salts thereof.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A water soluble metal working compositior comprising a an alkoxylated amine of the formula EMI19.1 wherein R1 is hydrogen, hydrocarbyl, alkoxy or polyalkoxy, R2 is hydrocarbyl of at least 7 carbon atoms and R3 is alkoxy or polyalkoxy b an alkanolamine of the formula EMI19.2 wherein R4 is i hydrogen, ii Cl C6 hydrocarbyl or iii a monomeric or polymeric alkoxy moiety consisting essentially of alkoxy units selected from ethoxy, 2 propoxy and 2 butoxy, R5 is i C1 C6 hydrocarbyl or ii a monomeric or polymeric alkoxy moiety consisting essentially of alkoxy units selected from ethoxy, 2 propoxy and 2 butoxy and R6 is i a monomeric or polymeric alkoxy moiety consisting essentially of alkoxy units selected from ethoxy, 2 propoxy and 2 butoxy such that said alkanolamine contains 6 or fewer alkoxy units and c an acid derived compound selected from organic acids, inorganic acids, and salts thereof. 2. A composition according to claim 1 wherein Rl and R3 independently represent a monomeric or polymeric alkoxy moiety consisting essentially of alkoxy units or mixtures of alkoxy units of the formula EMI20.1 wherein R7 is hydrogen or Cì C28 hydrocarbyl R1 and R3 are being selected such that the total number of alkoxy units in said alkoylated amine is from 2 to 35. 3. A composition according to claim 2 wherein R7 is hydrogen or methyl. 4. A composition according to claim 2 or 3 wherein the total number of alkoxy units in said alkoxylated amine is from 5 to 15 or 20. 5. A composition according to any one of the preceding claims wherein R2 is C12 to C20 hydrocarbyl. 6. A composition according to claim 5 wherein R2 is stearyl, oleyl, coco, soya or tallow. 7. A composition wherein R5 is methyl, hydroxyethyl or hydroxypropyl and R4 is independently selected from the same possibilities as R5 and also hydrogen. 8. A composition wherein said acid derived compound c is i an inorganic acid selected from H3PO4, H2SO4 and HNO3, ii an organic acid selected from acetic, formic, propionic, oxalic, succinic, glutaric, adipic, pimelic, benzoic, suberic, azelaic,paratoluenesulfonic, sebacic and amino acids or iii a salt selected fromGroup VIII metal, alkali metal, alkaline earth metal, nitrate, sulfate, phosphate and amine salts. 9. A composition according to any one of the preceding claims wherein the weight ratio of the alkanolamine b to the alkoxylated amine a is from 20 1 to 0.05 1. 10. A composition according to claim 9 wherein the weight ratio is from 10 1 to 0.1 1. 11. A composition according to claim 9 wherein the weight ratio is from 7 1 to 0.5 1. 12. A composition according to any one of the preceding claims wherein the weight ratio of said acid derived compound c to said alkoxylated amine a is from 3 1 to 0.01 1. 13. A composition according to claim lt wherein the weight ratio is from 1.5 1 to 0.1 1. 14. A composition according to any one of the preceding claims which is in the form of an aqueous solution. 15. A composition according to claim 14 wherein the alkoxylated amine a , alkanolamine b and acid derived compound c together constitute 0.1 to 15 by weight of said solution. 16. A composition according to claim 15 wherein a , b and c together constitute 0.5 to 10 by weight of said solution. 17. A composition according to claim 14,15 or 16 wherein said solution has a pH of 7.5 to 10.5. 18. A composition according to claim 17 wherein said solution has a pH equal of 8 to 9.5. 19. A composition according to any one of the preceding claims wherein the alkanolamine b is triethanolamine, diethanolamine or N methyl ethanolamine.

## Description
METAL WORKING FLUID COMPOSITION Description The present invention relates to water soluble metal working compositions in general, and to water soluble lubricants and coolants in particular. Metalworking compositions of the present invention may be used in commercial applications, such as steel drilling, milling, tapping, grinding, boring, turning and cutting. Several water based metal working fluid compositions are known in the art. U.S. Patent No. 2,917,160 to Turinsky relates to a water soluble lubricating composition of an ethoxylated amine and a salt forming acid, such as phosphoric acid or lactic acid. According to Turinsky, this lubricant composition should have a pH below 8, and is useful in water emulsions in a ratio of 1 part amine to 3 parts water. A similar aqueous cutting fluid is disclosed by U.S. Patent No. 3,186,946 to Sluhan. This cutting fluid consists of a tertiary ethoxylated amine in aqueous solution with boric acid to form an amine salt. Other water based metal working compositions are known in the art. U.S. Patent No. 3,195,332 to Ranauto discloses an aqueous lubricant composition which includes a polyoxyethylene imidazoline. A corrosion inhibitor, such as sodium nitrite, triethanol amine or morpholine may also be included. U.S. Patent No.2,990,369 to Shapiro discloses a metal working lubricant specifically adapted for the cutting and grinding of titanium. This water based lubricant composition comprises sodium fluoride, a high molecular weight imidazoline, a silicofluoride and a rosin amine ethylene oxide adduct. U.S. Patent No. 3,265,620 to Heiman discloses an aqueous metal working coolant comprising an ethanol amine, an alkali metal nitrite, and an aryl triazole which is at least one of benzotriazole and 4 nitrobenzotriazole. Heiman discloses that such compositions preferably should include a chelating agent, such as an amino polycarboxylic acid. Another metal working composition, which may be emulsified in water, is disclosed by U.S. Patent No.4,185,485 to Schick et al. This composition includes an ester formed by reacting an alkenylsuccinic anhydride or acid with a hydroxy containing tertiary alkylamine, such as triethanol amine, or a hydroxy polyether amine. This composition may also contain a C2 C10 monocarboxylic acid. When the reaction product is formed from an alkenylsuccinic anhydride or acid reacted with a hydroxy polyether amine, the composition may contain a rosin soap in addition to or instead of the monocarboxylic acid. U.S. Patent No. 3,280,029 to Waldmann relates to a composition for improved lubricating oils and water inoil emulsions comprising alkyl amino monoalkanols, such as monoethyl aminoethanol, diethyl amino ethanol and diethyl amino ethoxy ethanol. U.S. Patent No. 4,043,925 to Felton relates to a water based metal forming composition comprising a block copolymer with a central portion of polypropylene oxide with polyethyleie oxide at each end, a sulfochlorinated fatty acid, an alkoxylated 1,5 aza pentane, and potassium hydroxide. U.S.Patent No. 4,329,249 to Forsberg relates to the formation of nitrogen containing phosphorous free carboxylic acid derivatives. These derivatives may be formed by reacting a carboxylic acid acylating agent with an alkylmonoalkoxy tertiary amine, and are useful for the incorporation of oil soluble, water insoluble functional additives into water based functional fluids, such as water based hydraulic fluids. Other metal working fluids, related in certain aspects to the metal working fluid of the present invention, are disclosed by U.S. Patent Nos. 4,172,802 to Rieder, 4,177,154 to Chakrabarti, and 3,933,658 toBeiswanger et al. Further, a phosphoral tris diethanolamide additive is disclosed for water based and ethylene glycol based hydraulic fluids and lubricants inWear, 50 1978 365 369, Ludomir, Tokarzewski, Zakrzewski, Wachowicz and Szczepaniak. Another phosphorus based metal working composition is disclosed in PolishPatent Document No. 116,962 to Szczepaniak et al. However, these metal working fluids may have some disadvantages which are obviated or minimized by the metal working fluid of the present invention. Unlike some metal working fluids which require that components react with each other to form the metal working fluid, the metal working composition of the present invention may be synthesized by merely mixing the components together. Although many metal working fluids do not require that the components chemically react with each other, many compositions require a high proportion of relatively more expensive active ingredients to relatively less expensive ingredients, thereby increasing the cost of the metal working composition. Some metal working compositions may have the further disadvantage of requiring components which pose a potential health hazard to persons using them. For example, many metal working fluids used in the past contained nitrites, which have recently been recognized as participating in the conversion of certain chemical substances into carcinogens. For example, The UnitedStates Environmental Protection Agency recently promulgated a rule prohibiting the addition of nitrosating agents, such as nitrites, to triethanolamine salts of substituted organic acids when the mixture is to be used in metal working fluids due to the carcenogenic propensity of such materials demonstrated in animal studies Federal Register, Vol. 49 No. 116, June 14, 1984, Rules and Regulations .This difficulty is avoided by the present invention, which exhibits good metal working properties without containing nitrosating agents. In general, the present invention is a watersoluble, metal working composition which includes a relatively large alkoxylated amine, an alkanol amine and an acid derived compound, wherein the large alkoxylated amine is generally described by the formula EMI4.1 Consistent with this formula, R1 is selected from the group consisting of hydrogen, hydrocarbyl moieties, alkoxy moieties and polyalkoxy moieties, R2 is selected from the group consisting of C7 and larger hydrocarbyl moieties, and R3 is selected from the group consisting of alkoxy moieties and polyalkoxy moieties. The alkanol amine may generally be described by the formula EMI5.1 R4 is selected from the group consistent of hydrogen,C1 C6 hydrocarbyl moieties, and monomeric and polymeric alkoxy moieties consisting essentially of alkoxy units selected from the group consisting of ethoxy, 2 propoxy, 2 butoxy and mixtures thereof. R5 is selected from the group consisting of C1 C6 hydrocarbyl moieties, and monomeric and polymeric alkoxy moieties consisting essentially of alkoxy units selected from the group consisting of ethoxy, 2 propoxy, 2 butoxy and mixtures thereof. R6 is selected from the group consisting of monomeric and polymeric alkoxy moieties consisting essentially of alkoxy units selected from the group consisting of ethoxy, 2 propoxy, 2 butoxy and mixtures thereof. R4, R5 and R6 are additionally selected so that the alkanol amine contains a total of 6 or fewer alkoxy units. The acid derived compound included in the present invention is selected from the group consisting of inorganic acids, organic acids, and salts thereof. The present invention is a water soluble, metalworking composition comprising a relatively large alkoxylated amine, an alkanol amine and an acid derived compound. According to the invention, the large alkoxylated amine is a relatively large amine which may be generally described by the formula EMI6.1 R2 is a relatively large hydrocarbon group selected from the group consisting C7 and larger hydrocarbyl moieties. These hydrocarbyl moieties are generally alkyl or alkenyl in character, but may be an aryl moiety such as benzyl, methyl benzyl or dimethoxy benzyl, and alkyl phenyls such as nonyl phenyl. However, alkyl and alkenyl moieties are preferred. Polyalkoxy groups are not included. About C12 to about C20 hydrocarbyl moieties, such as stearyl, oleyl, palmyl, linoleyl, soya, lauryl, myristyl and tallow, are more preferred.Stearyl, oleyl, soya, coco and tallow moieties are most preferred. R1 is selected from the group consisting of hydrogen, hydrocarbyl moieties, alkoxy moieties and polyalkoxy moieties. The hydrocarbyl moieties may be aryl, alkyl or alkenyl in character, such as phenyl, stearyl, oleyl, soya, coco and tallow. Alkyl or alkenyl groups are preferred. Although R1 may be selected independent of R2, when R1 is hydrocarbyl it is preferred that R1 be the same as R2 due to the relative cost efficiency of preparing the alkoxylated amine when, instead of being different hydrocarbyl moieties, bothR1 and R2 are the same. Preferably, however, R1 is an alkoxy or a polyalkoxy moiety, consistent with those defined for R3. R3 may only be selected from the group consisting of alkoxy and polyalkoxy moieties. Preferably, these alkoxy and polyalkoxy moieties consist essentially of alkoxy units generally described by the following formula. As will be understood by those skilled in the art, the oxygen of alkoxy moieties and the terminal oxygen of polyalkoxy moieties is bonded to hydrogen, not shown in the above formula, to form a terminal hydroxy group.EMI7.1 R7 is selected from the group consisting of hydrogen and C1 C28 hydrocarbyl moieties, such as alkyl groups like methyl, ethyl and propyl. More preferably, R7 is hydrogen, methyl or ethyl, so that the alkoxy unit is an ethoxy, 2 propoxy or 2 butoxy unit, respectively. Ethoxy and propoxy units, whereinR7 is hydrogen or methyl, respectively, are even more preferred. Although R3 may be a polyalkoxy moiety consisting of a mixture of different alkoxy units, such as a mixture of ethoxy units and propoxy units, it is more preferred that R3 be homogenous. Hydroxy ethyl and homogenous polyethoxy moieties are most preferred. Although R1 may be selected independently fromR3, when R1 is an alkoxy or polyalkoxy moiety, it is preferred that R1 consist essentially of at least some of the same alkoxy units as R3 in order to simplify preparation of the tertiary alkoxylated amine. For example, when R3 is a polyalkoxy moiety of mixed ethoxy and propoxy units, it is preferred that R1 be hydroxy ethyl, hydroxy propyl, polyethoxy, polypropoxy or a polyalkoxy moiety of mixed ethoxy and propoxy units. Similarly, when R3 is a polyethoxy moiety, it is preferred that R1 be hydroxy ethyl, polyethoxy or a mixed polyalkoxy moiety of ethoxy units R1 and other alkoxy units. Most preferably, however,both R1 and R3 consist essentially of the same kind of alkoxy units. In the preferred embodiment R1 and R3 are chosen such that the total number of alkoxy units on the large alkoxylated amine is equal to 2 to about 35.For example, the total number of alkoxy groups may be equal to 2 when each of R1 and R3 is hydroxy ethyl, or when R3 is a polyethoxy moiety consisting of 2 ethoxy units and R1 is hydrogen or a hydrocarbyl moiety such as tallow. More preferably, the total number of alkoxy units in said large alkoxylated amine is equal to about 5 to about 20, such as whereR3 is a polyethoxy moiety consisting of three ethoxy units, and R1 is a polyethoxy moiety consisting of two ethoxy units. Relatively large alkoxylated amines consistent with the preferred embodiment of the invention are commercially available from the Borg WarnerCorporation under the trademark wPEGAMEEN . The alkanol amine of the present invention is a relatively small amine, and may be generally described by the formula EMI8.1 R4 is selected from the group consisting of hydrogen, C1 C6 hydrocarbyl moieties such as methyl, phenyl, ethyl, propyl and butyl, and monomeric and polymeric alkoxy moieties. When R4 is a monomeric or polymeric alkoxy moiety, the alkoxy moiety consists essentially of alkoxy units selected from the group consisting of ethoxy, 2 propoxy, 2 butoxy and mixtures thereof. For example, when R4 is a monomeric alkoxy moiety, R4 is selected from the group consisting of hydroxy ethyl HO CH2CH2 , 2 hydroxy propyl CH3CH OH CH2 , and 2 hydroxy butyl C83CH2CH OH CH2 moieties. Although R4 may be a polymeric alkoxy moiety, such as polyethoxy HOCH2CH 2OCH2 CH2 or polypropoxy CH3CH OH CH2OCH CH3 CH2 , R4 preferably is a simple alkoxy moiety, such as hydroxy ethyl or 2 hydroxy propyl, a simple hydrocarbyl such as methyl, ethyl, or hydrogen, such as in dimethyl ethanol amine, N phenyl ethanol amine, and N,N diethyl ethanol amine. Hydroxy ethyl and hydrogen are most preferred, such as when the alkanol amine is triethanol amine, diethanol amine or N methyl ethanol amine. R5 may be selected from the group consisting ofC1 C6 hydrocarbyl moieties, as discussed above forR4, and monomeric and polymeric alkoxy moieties which consist essentially of alkoxy units selected from the group consisting of ethoxy, 2 propoxy, 2 butoxy and mixtures thereof, as discussed above for R4. However, unlike R4, R5 may not be hydrogen. Consequently, although the alkanol amine may be a secondary or tertiary amine, the alkanol amine may not be a primary amine. In the embodiment of the invention which is most preferred, R5 is methyl, as in N methyl ethanol amine or dimethyl ethanol amine, or hydroxy ethyl, as in diethanol amine or triethanol amine. R6 may be a monomeric or polymeric alkoxy moiety consisting essentially of alkoxy units selected from the group consisting of ethoxy, 2 propoxy, 2 butoxy, and mixtures thereof, as discussed above for R4. Preferably, R6 is hydroxy ethyl or 2 hydroxy propyl. Hydroxy ethyl is more preferred. Triethanol amine, N methyl ethanol amine and mixtures thereof are most preferred. It should further be noted that although each ofR4, R5 and R6 may be a polymeric alkoxy group, the alkanol amine may contain no more than a total of 6 alkoxy units. However, fewer than 6 alkoxy units are preferred, such as in triethanol amine, diethanol amine and N methyl ethanol amine, wherein the total number of alkoxy units is equal to or less than 3. The composition of the present invention also contains an acid derived compound. This acid derived compound may be an organic acid, an inorganic acid or a salt derived from an organic or inorganic acid by the replacement of an acidic hydrogen by another appropriate cation. Preferred organic acid derived compounds include acetic acid, propionic acid, butyric acid, formic acid, oxalic acid, succinic acid, glutaric acid, adipic acid, pimelic acid, benzoic acid, suberic acid, azelaic acid, para toluene sulfonic acid, sebacic acid, and amino acids such as alanine, leucine, phenylalanine, glycine, tyrosine, serine, aspartic acid and glutamic acid. In the embodiment of the invention which is most preferred, the acid derived compound is an inorganic acid, with phosphoric acid, nitric acid and sulfuric acid being preferred. Boric acid is not preferred.Phosphoric acid is most preferred. In an alternative embodiment which is less preferred than those discussed above, the acid derived compound may be a salt of an organic or inorganic acid, and preferably is a salt of the preferred acids discussed above. When the acid derived compound is a salt, it is preferred that the acid derived compound be aGroup VIII metal, alkaline metal, alkaline earth metal or amine salt. Examples of salts consistent with this embodiment include iron phosphates, ammonium sulfates and sodium nitrates. It has been found that the composition of the present invention, as described, provides a metalworking composition in which time consuming and costly component preparation may be avoided, and yet achieve excellent cooling, high lubricity, and extreme pressure properties. Further, the composition of the present invention may exhibit high thermal and hydrolytic stability, while inhibiting the development of rust on the workpiece and equipment. Some formulations, such as those containing N methyl ethanol amine as some or all of the alkanol amine component, may also exhibit a lowered susceptibility to the growth of mold and bacteria. The ratio of the ingredients for optimum performance in a particular application, such as extremepressure properties, can be adjusted as needed. It is preferred, however, that the ratio by weight of the alkanol amine to the relatively large alkoxylated amine be about 20 1 to about 0.05 1. More preferably, however, the ratio by weight of the alkanol amine to the large alkoxylated amine is about 10 1 to about 0.1 1, with a ratio of about 7 1 to about 0.5 1 being most preferred. When the ratio of the alkanol amine to the relatively large alkoxylated amine is about 20 1 to about 0.05 1, it is preferred that the ratio by weight of the acid derived compound to the large alkoxylated amine be about 3 1 to about 0.01 1. Ratios of acidderived compound to large alkoxylated amine of about 1.5 1 to about 0.1 1, however, are more preferred. Due to space and weight considerations, the composition of the present invention usually will be stored and shipped in a relatively concentrated form. Although this concentrate may contain no significant quantities of water, the composition usually will be shipped and stored as an aqueous solution which contains 10 60 by weight, and preferably 20 50 by weight, of the rela tively large alkoxylated amine, the alkanol amine and the acid derived compound combined. Although the composition of the present invention may be used in a concentrated form, due to the fact that a significant portion of the cost of a lubricating composition generally is for the active components rather than the carrier medium, e.g. water or oil, it is generally preferred that the amount of metal working composition in a lubricant or coolant be as low as practically possible.As suggested by the examples discussed below, the composition of the present invention may be used in the form of highly dilute aqueous solutions without adversely affecting the lubricity, extreme pressure or anti wear properties of the invention, In the preferred embodiment, the composition is an aqueous solution which includes at least 85 by weight water, based on the total weight of the solution, and about 0.1 to 15 by weight of the combined large alkoxylated amine, alkanol amine and the acid derived compound, although, as is known to those skilled in the art, the appropriate concentration will vary depending on the application. More preferably, however, the large alkoxylated amine, the alkanol amine and the acid derived compound together constitute about 0.5 to about 10 by weight of the solution, with about 0.5 to 5 being most preferred. It is further preferred that the pH of the composition be equal to about 7.5 to about 10.5 in order to minimize the corrosive effects of the composition on the workpiece pH s in the range of about 8 to about 9.5 are more preferred. Consistent with the invention, pH1s in the preferred ranges may be attained by adjusting the proportions of the various components to each other, and or by adding other components, such as acids or bases, to maintain the proper pH balance. Other components may also be added to assist in solubilizing the composition in water, although these are not usually necessary. Other known additives, such as biocides, dyes, perfumes, antifoam compounds, crystal growth modifiers, scale inhibitors and chelating agents for hard water use may also be included. SPECIFIC EMBODIMENTS Reference is made to the following examples, which are provided to illustrate various aspects of the invention by embodifying certain aspects of the invention or by providing a basis for comparison. Examples 1 28 illustrate the testing of various fluids to determine their load carrying properties by determining their maximum load to failure. Testing reported in Tables I and II was performed according toASTM No. D 3233 73, Standard Methods for Measurement ofExtreme Pressure Properties of Fluid Lubricants FalexMethods . Unless otherwise indicated, the lubricating fluids in these examples are fluids formed by placing the components indicated in deionized water. Amounts indicated are weight percent, based upon the total weight of the fluid. The term DEA indicates diethanol amine and TEA indicates triethanol amine. Examples 1 7 represent various formulations of the preferred embodiment of the invention, wherein the solubilizing component is the inorganic acid, B3PO4. However, that the composition of the present invention is not limited to inorganic acids or H3PO4 in particular may be seen from Examples 21 28. Comparative Examples C8 C12 represent testing of various commercially available metal working compositions as a basis for comparing the composition of the present invention. In these and subsequent examples,Cim Cool 400 is a proprietary metal working concentrate, for heavy machinery and grinding, of Cincinnati Milacron Do All is t470 soluble oil of Do All Finishing Company Antara HR 719 is a proprietary metal working lubricant of GAF Corp. E Cool is a proprietary fluid from HenryE. Sanson Sons, Inc., and Clear Mint is a concentrated, synthetic cutting lubricant, coolant and rust inhibitor from Amitron Products, Inc. Comparative Examples C13 C20 represent testing of various components useful in making the composition of the present invention. In these and the following examples, H3P04 is 85 wt phosphoric acid aqueous solution. IPEGAMEEN is a Trademark of Borg WarnerChemicals, Inc. used in conjunction with amine compounds corresponding to relatively large alkoxylated amines useful in the present invention, according to the general formula discussed above, wherein R1 is an alkoxy or polyalkoxy moiety. The numerical portion of the PEGAMEEN designation, such as T 7, T 15 and T 25, indicates the average value of the total number of alkoxy units in the large amine compound. Consequently,T 7 indicates an average value of 7, T 15 indicates an average value of 15, and T 25 indicates an average value of 25. In the examples presented herein, R2 of the alkoxylated amine is a tallow moiety. The results ofExamples 1 C20 are reported in Table I. Table I Extreme Pressure Performance Example Composition wt in H2O Maximum Load to Failure lb. 1 Pegaeeen T 7 0.4 TEA 2 H3PO4 0.17 2500 2 Pegameen T 7 0.4 TEA 2 H3PO4 0.085 2250 3 Pegameen T 7 0.4 TEA 2 H3PO4 0.34 2000 4 Pegameen T 7 0.4 DEA 1.4 H3PO4 0.34 1750 5 Pegameen T 25 0.4 TEA 2 H3PO4 0.17 2250 6 Pegameen T 5 0.1 Pegameen T 7 0.1 2250 Pegameen T 15 0.1 Pegameen T 25 0.1 TEA 2 H3PO4 0.17 7 Pegameen T 15 0.4 TEA 2 H3PO4 0.34 2000 C8 Cim Cool 400 5 2250 C9 Do All 2.8 2250 C10 Antara HR 719 0.5 TEA 2 2250 C11 E Cool 5 1750 C12 Clear Mint 5 2000 C13 Deionized H20 100 300 C14 TEA 2 750 C15 Pegameen T 7 0.4 300 C16 Pegameen T 7 0.4 TEA 2 2750 C17 TEA 2 H3PO4 0.17 1500 C18 Pegameen T 7 7.5 H3PO4 0.17 2250 C19 Polyethylene Glycol 0.4 300 C20 Polyethylene Glycol 0.4 TEA 2 H3 PO4 0.17 1500 Examples 21 28 illustrate the effect of various inorganic acids, such as H2SO4 and boric oxide, which hydrolyzes to boric acid in the presence of water, carboxylic acids, and salts on the extreme pressure test results conducted as described above. A series of compositions were prepared containing 0.4 by weight ofPegameen T 7, 2.0 by weight triethanol amine and various concentrations of different acids or salts.The acids or salts, their concentration and the extremepressure test results are indicated in Table II. Table II Extreme Pressure Performance Maximum Load toExample Acid Salt Wt Failure Ib. 21 sulfuric acid 0.3 2250 22 iron ortho phosphate 0.04 2500 23 boric oxide 0.05 2500 24 acetic acid 0.176 2250 25 succinic acid 0.347 2500 26 adipic acid 0.24 2700 27 pimelic acid 0.23 2500 28 azelaic acid 0.28 2250 Performance of known metal working fluids, as well as metal working fluids consistent with the present invention, under drilling conditions, was assessed.Drilling was conducted using a steel workpiece of hardness index RC 29 according to The Rockwell C hardness scale, and a 1 4 in. black oxide coated drill at 1000 5 rpm with an 0.0052 in. revolution feed rate.Metal working fluid was flooded onto the drill from two sides. Triadine 10, used in Example 40, is a biocide from Olin Corp. and Amine CS 1135, used in Example 41, is a corrosion inhibitor from the Angus ChemicalCo. The results of drill testing of fluids consistent with the composition of the present invention Examples 35 41 , and with other fluids tested to provide a basis for comparison Comparative Examples C29 C34 are reported below in Table III. Although the workpieces for Comparative Examples C31 C33 exhibited extensive rusting after testing, significant corrosion was not evident on the workpieces for Examples 35 41, wherein water soluble metal working compositions of the present invention were used. In addition to the examples described above, further testing indicates that part or all of the alkanol amine may be N methyl ethanol amine without degrading the metal working properties of the composition of the present invention. Table III Drill Performance No. of Holes to FailureExample Composition wt in H2O Test 1 Test 2 Avg.C29 5 Cim Cool 400 117 112 115 C30 2.0 TEA 0.34 H3Po4 14 30 22 C31 0.4 Pegameen T 7 .04 H3PO4 12 .15 14 C32 0.59 Pegameen T 7 .05 H3PO4 18 17 18 C33 2.47 Pegameen T 7 .27 H3PO4 58 78 68 C34 24.4 Pegaiteen T 7 2.2 H3PO4 142 130 136 35 0.4 Pegameen 7 2 TEA 0.34 H3PO4 114 144 129 36 0.4 Pegameen T 7 2 TEA 0.34 H3PO4 111 130 121 in tap water 37 0.4 Pegameen T 8 2 TEA 0.34 H3PO4 134 117 126 38 0.4 Pegameen T 9 2 TEA 0.34 H3PO4 128 120 124 39 0.4 Pegameen T 7 1 N methyl ethanol amine 0.34 H3PO4 135 40 0.48 Pegameen T 7 2.0 TEA 0.34 H3PO4 196 150 173 0.1 Triadine 10 41 0.4 Pegameen T 7 1.9 TEA 0.34 H3PO4 194 121 157 0.1 Amine CS 1135