# Cubic boron nitride abrasive body.

## Abstract
A sintered cubic boron nitride body is produced by mixing a mass of cubic boron nitride particles with a salt like nitride or a mixture of such nitrides and subjecting the mixture to elevated temperature and pressure conditions at which the cubic boron nitride is crystallographically stable. The nitride or nitrides in the mixture are present in an amount of no more than 2 mole percent of the mixture. The sintered body thus produced may be crushed to a mass of smaller bodies or particles. The strength of these bodies or particles may be increased by subjecting them, or the sintered body before crushing, to a heat treatment at a temperature of 1000 C to 1300 C for 5 to 60 minutes.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A method of producing a sintered body of cubic boron nitride comprising the steps of a mixing a mass of cubic boron nitride particles with a salt like nitride or a mixture of such nitrides, the nitride or nitrides being present in an amount of no more than 2 mole percent of the mixture and b subjecting the mixture to elevated temperature and pressure conditions at which the cubic boron nitride is crystallographically stable. 2. A method according to claim 1 wherein the nitride or nitrides are the alkaline earth metal nitrides. 3. A method according to claim 1 wherein there is used a mixture of nitrides, the components of the mixture being calcium nitride and magnesium nitride. 4. A method according to any one of the preceding claims wherein the nitride nr nitrides are present in an amount of no more than 0,5 mole percent of the mixture. S. A method according to any one of the preceding claims wherein the cubic boron nitride particles have a particle size of less than 40 microns. 6. A method according to any one of the preceding claims wherein the sintered body is crushed to a mass of smaller bodies or particles. 7. A method according to claim 6 wherein the smaller bodies or particles have a size of 70 to 1000 microns. 8. A method according to claim 6 or claim 7 wherein the body, before crushing, is heat treated at a temperature of 10000C to 1300do for 5 to 60 minutes. 9. A method according to claim 6 or claim 7 wherein the smaller bodies or particles are heat treated at a temperature of 10000C to 13000C for 5 to 60 minutes. 10. A method according to claim 8 or claim 9 wherein the heat treatment is at 11000C for 5 to 60 minutes. 11. A method according to any one of claims 8 to 10 wherein the heat treatment is carried out in a non oxidising atmosphere.

## Description
CUBIC BORON NITRIDE M ABRASIVE BODY BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTIONThis invention relates to cubic boron nitride abrasive bodies.Cubic boron nitride is a hard substance second only to diamond in hardness which has a wide variety of abrasive applications in industry. Cubic boron nitride particles may be incorporated into grinding wheels which may be used for grinding a variety of hardened ferrous materials. Cubic boron nitride may also be compounded into the form of an abrasive compact. Cubic boron nitride abrasive compacts are widely used in industry and described in many published patent specifications.United States Patent Specification No. 4,469,802 describes the manufacture of a sintered body of cubic boron nitride which comprises the steps of a mixing raw material boron nitride selected from the group consisting of hexagonal system boron nitride, cubic system boron nitride, and a mixture thereof with He B N where Me represents an alkaline earth metal in an amount of from 0,15 to 3,0 mole percent and b treating the mixed material at a temperature of 1350 C and above under a thermodynamically stabilised pressure condition with a cubic system boron nitride.It is to be noted that essential to this process is the use of the specified alkaline earth metal boronitride compound in the mixture which is sintered.SUMMARY OF THE INVENTIONAccording to the present invention, there is provided a method of producing a sintered body of cubic boron nitride comprising the steps of a mixing a mass of cubic boron nitride particles with a salt like nitride or a mixture of such nitrides, the nitride or nitrides being present in an amount of no more than 2 mole percent of the mixture and b subjecting the mixture to elevated temperature and pressure conditions at which the cubic boron nitride is crystallographically stable.DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTIONThe salt like nitrides are nitrides of the alkali and alkaline earth metals and the nitrides of the metals of Groups IB, IIB and some GroupIV metals. The preferred nitrides are the alkaline earth metal nitrides. The salt like nitride, which is a sintering aid material for the cubic boron nitride, is preferably used as a mixture of nitrides. An example of a suitable mixture is calcium nitride and magnesium nitride.It is.essential to the practice of the invention that the salt like nitride is used in a very small quantity. Preferably, the mole percent of the nitride or nitrides in the mixture will be no more than 0,5 mole percent. The minimum amount of the nitride or nitrides in the mixture will typically be 0,007 mole percent.It is preferred that the cubic boron nitride particles are fine, e.g.having a particle size of less than 40 microns. The particles may be produced in the conventional manner. Alternatively, the cubic boron nitride particles may be produced by synthesis from hexagonal boron nitride using a salt like nitride as the catalyst.The temperature and pressure conditions used in producing the sintered body are such that the cubic boron nitride is crystallographically stable. The applied pressure will typically be in the range 40 to 80 kilobars while the applied temperature will typically be in the range 1300 to 23000C. The sintered cubic boron nitride body produced by the method of the invention contains a certain amount of direct cubic boron nitride to cubic boron nitride particle bonding or intergrowth and this contributes to the strength of the body. The sintered body will generally be produced in the form of a disc having a diameter of at least 2mm. The sintered body may thus be used for abrading, e.g. by turning, a variety of materials, particularly ferrous materials. The sintered body is preferably crushed to produce a mass of smaller cubic boron nitride bodies or particles. Such crushing will generally produce particles of 70 1000 microns. These particles may be incorporated in conventional abrasive tools such as grinding wheels.It has surprisingly been found that the strength of the particles is increased if the sintered body, before crushing, or the particles themselves are heat treated at a temperature of 10000C to 13000C for 5 to 60 minutes. The preferred heat treatment is at 11000C for 5 to 60 minutes. The heat treatment is preferably carried out in a nonoxidising atmosphere such as an inert gas.The invention will now be illustrated by the following examples.EXAMPLE 1A mass of cubic boron nitride particles of particle size less than 40 microns was mixed with a nitride sintering aid material. The nitride sintering aid material consisted of a mixture of calcium nitride and magnesium nitride 50 50 mole mixture . The nitride sintering aid material was provided in an amount of 0,075 mole percent of the mixture. The mixture was loaded into a standard high pressure high temperature capsule and subjected to a temperature in the range of 1650 to 17000C and a pressure of 55 to 60 kilobars. The elevated temperature and pressure conditions were maintained for a period of 10 minutes. Recovered from the capsule was a disc shaped body consisting of sintered, intergrown mass of cubic boron nitride particles which was extremely hard and suitable for turning a variety of hardened steels. EXAMPLES 2 to 6Using the same method as described in Example 1, sintered intergrown cubic boron nitride bodies were produced using the following sintering aid materials and amounts Example Sintering Aid Material Mole of Mixture 2. magnesium nitride 0,1 3. calcium nitride 0,7 4. strontium nitride 0,085 5. barium nitride 0,056 6. copper nitride 0,12In eacfi case an extremely hard sintered cubic boron nitride body suitable for turning a variety of hardened steels was produced.EXAMPLE 7A sintered cubic boron nitride body was produced following the teachings of Example 1 save that the mixture of nitrides constituted 0,1 mele percent of the mixture. This body was placed in a conventional ring crusher and crushed to a mass of smaller bodies or particles of various sizes. Particles in three ranges were selected.The strengths of the particles were measured using the well knownFriatest Index method described in the article of The Friatester 10Years Later by N.G. Belling and L. Bialy, Industrial Diamond Review, August 1974, pages 285 to 291. The strengths of the particles in each range were measured, first, in their as produced state and, econd, after having been subjected to heat treatment for five minutes at 11000C in an argon atmosphere. The results obtained are set out below Size microns F.I. Before F.I. After 177 149 51,0 82,3 149 125 62,0 86,0 105 88 65,0 101,1The F.I. or Friatest Index is a measure of the impact strength of the particle the higher the F.I. value the stronger the particle. It can therefore be seen that the heat treatment described above significantly improved the strength of the particles in each size range. Particles produced in this manner are suitable for incorporation in grinding wheels such as resin bond grinding wheels for the grinding of a variety of hardened and like steels.