# A method of placing a platform on a support structure surrounded by water, in particular in high seas, and a vessel for carrying out said method.

## Abstract
This invention relates to a method of, and apparatus for, placing a platform on a support structure which, on the one hand, is anchored in the bottom under a body of water surrounding the support structure, in particular in high seas, and, on the other hand, extends to above the water surface. Use is made of a semi submersible vessel capable of being moved between and or around the support structure and moored in a position in which the platform is roughly in proper position relative to the support structure. The plat form is then arranged to be movable relatively to the vessel in a horizontal plane with relatively light forces by releasing locking means and activating means suitable for the pur pose, and accurately positioned relatively to the support structure by automatic steering and correcting means. Thereafter the vessel is submerged until the platform is placed on the support structure.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A method of placing a platform on a support structure which, on the one hand, is anchored in the bottom under a body of water surrounding the support structure, in particular in high seas, and, on the other hand, extends to above the water surface, characterized by placing the platform in its totallity on a semisubmersible vessel adapted to carry the platform in such a manner that the place or places where the support structure is to engage it is, or are, situated on a part of the platform that is not supported by said vessel, moving the vessel into such a position that the bottom of the platform is generally above the level of the top of the support structure, moving the vessel between and or around the support structure and mooring it in a position in which the platform is roughly in proper position relative to the support structure, arranging for the platform to be movable relatively to the vessel in a horizontal plane with relatively light forces by releasing locking means and activating means suitable for the purpose, accurately positioning the platform relatively to the support structure by automatic steering and correcting means, and, while keeping the platform accurately in position, submerging the vessel at least until the platform is placed on the support structure. 2. A method according to claim 1, characterized in that, prior to submerging the vessel, spring means or damping means are arranged between the platform and the support structure. 3. A method according to claim 1 or 2, characterized in that, as the platform is being supported by the support structure during the descent of the vessel, spring means and or damping means become active between the platform and the vessel. 4. A method according to any of the preceding claims, characterized in that, after accurately positioning the platform relatively to the support structure vertical guide means, for example, in the form of pins, are disposed between the platform and the support. 5. A vessel for performing the method as claimed in any of the preceding claims, said vessel being semisubmersible and comprising an upper pontoon, at least one lower pontoon, and members, such as columns and struts or other cross connection pieces, interconnecting said upper and lower pontoons, characterized in that the vessel has a recess open to one side, with box shaped sidewalls meeting said side and capable of supporting the platform at least for the greater part. 6. A vessel according to claim 5, characterized by the provision of at least two, substantially vertically extending rods in each sidewall, said rods being pivoted at their lower end to a support and pivoted at their upper end to a platform carrying structure interconnecting the rods. 7. A vessel according to claim 5 or 6, characterized in that, in addition to being pivotable, the rods are, to a certain extent, capable of twisting about their longitudinal axis at their ends. 8. A vessel according to any of claims 5 7, characterized in that the supports connected to the lower ends of the rods are suspended by means permitting twisting and or pivoting movement, such as cables secured adjacent the top of the sidewalls. 9. A vessel according to any of claims 5 8, characterized in that the platform carrying structure is movable in a horizontal plane in two perpendicular directions and about a vertical axis by controlled hydraulic means.

## Description
Title A method of placing a platform on a support structure surrounded by water, in particular in high seas, and a vessel for carrying out said method. This invention relates to a method of placing a platform on a support structure which, on the one hand, is anchored in toe bottom under a body of water surrounding the support structure and, in particular in high seas, and, on the other hand, extends to above the water surface. In case a working platform or drilling rig must be positioned in relatively shallow water, use is often made of legs or poles longitudinally movable relatively to the platform. The platform is towed to its destination in floating condition, either independently or otherwise, with the legs in a retracted position, whereafter the legs are lowered until they are supported on the submerged bottom. Continued operation of the displacement mechanisms subsequently provides for the platform being jacked up to the desired distance above the water level relatively to the legs, which are then stationary. If, however, a platform must be positioned in a relatively deep body of water, such a method of installation is no longer feasible on account of the required length of the legs. In such cases, a leg is built up from segments, which are separately and successive ly lowered and mounted one on top of the other. The working platform, which may weigh as much as 20,000 60,000 tonnes, is also supplied in segments, which by means of a derrick are placed in position and interconnected to form a platform. Placing a platform on a support structure in this manner is labour intensive, resulting in a long construction period, which is further adversely affected by the difficult and spatially restricted conditions under which the work must be carried out. Indeed, such a method involves very high cost.This cost could be reduced considerably if the entire platform could be placed as a prefabricated unit on the support structure, which often consists of one or more legs. This, however, can hardly, if at all, be realized by means of derricks, for one thing on account of the weight of the platform and the required accuracy in manoeuvring, in particular if the work must be carried out on open sea, i.e. in rough water. It is an object of the present invention to provide a method which makes it possible for a platform to be accurately positioned as one unit on a support structure. According to the present invention this is achieved in a method of the kind defined in the opening paragraph by placing the platform in its totallity on a semi submersible vessel adapted to carry the platform in such a manner that the place or places where the support structure is to engage it is or are situated on a part of the platform that is not supported by said vessel, moving the vessel into such a position that the bottom of the platform is generally above the level of the top of the support structure, moving the vessel between and or around the support structure and mooring it in a position in which the platform is roughly in proper position relative to the support structure, arranging for the platform to be movable relatively to the vessel in a horizontal plane with relatively light forces by releasing locking means and activating means suitable for the purpose, accurately positioning the platform relatively to the support structure by automatic steering and correcting means, and, while keeping the platform accurately in position, submerging the vessel at least until the platform is placed on the support structure.By using apparatus for lowering the platform the semisubmersible transport vehicle rather than apparatus for hoisting it the derrick or derricks used in the prior methods it becomes possible for the platform to be bodily handled in placing it on the support structure.A load supported on a vessel cannot be manoeuvred in the same way as can a load hanging from a hoisting device, which can be moved by relatively simple means. Accurately positioning the load by manoeuvring the vessel is hardly, if at all possible, in particular on high seas. In accordance with the method proposed by the present invention, this problem is solved by displacing the load relatively to the vessel, which is moored when roughly in position.For this purpose the load is arranged to be relatively easily movable relatively to the vessel, by suitable means, and accurately positioned relatively to the fixed support structure by the steering and correcting means.This position is continuously maintained by the means referred to during the submerging of the vessel, so that any movements of the vessel which may occur during the submersion operation, other than the submerging movements themselves, for example, as a result of rough water, are continuously corrected. In this way the method according to the invention makes it possible for the platform to be bodily placed on the support structure in accurately positioned interrelationship, and to be subsequently connected to it. Wave movements occurring during the submerging of the vessel may cause the platform to bump against the support structure, in which connection it should be borne in mind that the submerging operation is a process that is relatively slow, at any rate as compared with the movements of the water, so that the actual deposition will take some time, and, after a first contact has been made between platform and support structure, wave movements may cause these two parts to come apart again.In order to avoid such problems, it is preferable, according to a further embodiment of the invention, that. prior to submerging the vessel, spring means or damping means are arranged between the platform and the support structure, while further, the arrangement may be such that, as the platform is being supported by the support structure during the descent of the vessel, spring means and or damping means become active between the platform and the vessel. Under certain conditions, for example, when the platform is placed on a single leg and or the procedure is carried out in relatively calm water, in accordance with a further embodiment of the invention, the desired accurate interrelationship between platform and support structure can advantageously be maintained by means of, or with the help of vertical guide means, for example, in the form of pins, disposed between the platform and the support structure after the platform has been accurately positioned relatively to the support structure. The invention also relates to a vessel for performing the method according to the invention, said vessel being semi submersible and comprising an upper pontoon, at least one lower pontoon, and members, such as columns and struts or other cross connection pieces interconnecting the upper and lower pontoons. In order that the method according to the invention may be carried out in an efficient manner, the vessel acording to the invention has a recess open to one side, with box shaped sidewalls meeting said side and capable of supporting zthe t atform at least for the greater part. The open ended recess makes it possible for the vessel to manoeuvre its box shaped sidewalls around the support structure, so that the latter comes to lie within the outer circumference of the vessel and under the platform.The box shaped construction of the sidewalls meeting the sidewall with the recess therein has the further dvantage that the centre of buoyancy can be situated substantially in the centre of the recess and or centrally under the platform, which has advantages in submerging the vessel and depositing the platform on the support structure. For the platform to be arranged to be movable relatively to the vessel with relatively light forces, so that it may be accurately positioned relatively to the support structure, a great variety of means may be used. Thus slides may be interposed between the vessel and the platform, or a rolling ball support for the platform may be provided on the vessel. In accordance with a further preferred embodiment of the invention, however, the vessel is characterized by the provision of at least two, substantially vertically extending rods in each sidewall, said rods being pivoted at their lower end to a support and pivoted at their upper end to a platform supporting structure interconnecting the rods. Owing to these features, the platform is supported on the vessel in a manner comparable to the situation described above, in which a load hangs from a derrick. For the sake of simplicity, the substantially vertically extending rods can be regarded as inverse derrick cables, by virtue of which the platform to be deposited can be accurately positioned in the same, relatively simple manner as is the case with a load hanging from a derrick. In this connection it should be borne in mind that the height of the sidewalls of the semi submersible vessel may be in the order of 30 meters, so that, as a result of the long lever arm, a relatively light force is required for displacing the platform. In order to provide a simple way of permitting a certain degree of rotation of the platform relative to the vessel and the support structure during the positioning of the platform, it is preferable, and in accordance with a further embodiment of the present invention, that, in addition to being pivotable, the rods are, to a certain extent, capable of twisting about their longitudinal axis at their ends. The available lever arm length can be increased still further if, in accordance with a further embodiment of the invention, the supports connected to the lower ends of the rods are suspended by means permitting twisting and or pivoting movement, such as cables secured adjacent the top of the sidewalls. As compared with a load hanging from a crane, a further advantage can be realized by the present invention because the platform can now be accurately positioned by using means disposed on the vessel in a stationary position relative to the platform, there being a preference for a construction in which the platform carrying structure is movable in a horizontal plane in two perpendicular directions and about a vertical axis by controlled hydraulic means. The method and the vessel for placing a platform on a support structure in accordance with the present invention will now be described and elucidated in more detail with reference to some embodiments illustrated in the accompanying drawings. In said drawings Fig. 1 shows a side elevational view of a semi submersible transport vessel carrying a platform to be placed on a stationary support structure Fig. 2 shows a plan view of the showing ofFig. 1 Fig. 3 shows, in side elevational view, a situation following that illustrated in Fig. 1 Fig. 4 shows, in side elevational view, a situation following that illustrated in Fig. 3 Fig. 5 shows an optional springing support between the platform and the support structure to aid in positioning the platform Fig. 6 shows a possible platform carrying structure on board the vessel and Fig. 7 shows a possible steering and correcting device. Fig. 1 diagrammatically shows a semi submersible vessel 1. The vessel comprises an upper pontoon la, which also forms a deck, two elongaged lower pontoons ib, columns lc connecting upper and lower pontoons, two of which are extended to form box shaped outer walls id. A platform 2 is placed substantially on the tops of the box shaped sidewalls id. Platform 2 is to be placed on a support structure 3, which in the embodiment shown is constituted by a single leg anchored in the bottom. Naturally, other constructions are possible, such as four legs. Fig. 3 shows the situation in which vessel 1 is positioned so that the support structure 3 is substantially centrally under platform 2, which, roughly, is in a correct position relative to support structure 3. Thus support structure 3 is within a U shaped recess of vessel 1, defined by the box shaped sidewalls 1d and the meeting edge of the upper pontoon la. After reaching the situation shown in Fig.3, the submersible vessel 1 ismooredand the platform 2 is arranged, by means to be described hereinafter, so that it can be moved relatively to the platform in a horizontal plane with light forces. By means of a steering and correcting device, also to be described hereinafter, the platform 2 is accurately positioned relatively to support structure 3, and spring means, to be described hereinafter, are interposed between platform 2 and support structure 3. After platform 2 has been accurately positioned relatively to support structure 3, this position is continuously maintained by means of the steering and correcting device. By partially submerging vessel 1, platform 2 is now placed on support structure 3, whereby platform 2 is released from vessel 1, as shown in Fig.4. After weighing anchors, vessel 1 can move off. Fig. 5 shows the top end of support structure 3, and illustrates lugs 4 provided at the top end of the support structure, on which spring and or damping means 5 can bear which on the other hand form a support for platform 2. By means of the spring and or damping means 5, platform 2 can be placed on the support structure 3 without major shocks or bumps by submerging vessel 1. When the deposited platform 2 has been connected with the support structure 3, the spring and or damping means and possibly lugs 4 can be removed. Fig. 6 shows platform 2 supported on a platform carrying construction 6 supported by at least four rods 7 extending substantially vertically within the box shaped sidewalls id. The connection between the platform carrying construction 6 and the ends of rods 7 can be effected by means of hinges, but we preferably use a resilient joint which, in addition to pivoting, also permits a certain amount of twisting.Similarly, rods 7 are each connected at their lower ends to a support 8 which in turn is suspended by means of cables 9, the upper ends of which are fixedly connected to, or in the vicinity of the upper ends of the box shaped sidewalls id. During the transport of the platform from the place where it has been made or the place where platform 2 has been placed on vessel 1, the platform carrying construction 6 is fixed by locking means, not shown, so that platform 2 is restrained from moving relatively to vessel 1. Fig. 1 shows the platform carrying construction 6 in plan view. Four hydraulic cylinders 10 13 may be in operative association with the platform carrying construction and or rods 7 so that the platform 2, not shown, is movable relatively to vessel 1 in a horizontal plane in any desired direction. By simultaneously operating cylinders 10 and 11, it is possible to effect a movement in a first direction, while, by simultaneously operating cylinders 12 and 13, a movement in a direction perpendicular to the first direction can be accomplished. By causing cylinders 10 and 11 and 12 and 13 to move in a controlled, irregular manner, Åa rotation around an axis perpendicular to the plane of the page is possible. Naturally, many modifications and variants are possible without departing from the scope of the invention, among other things as regards the construction of the semi submersible, the means for arranging the platform for it to be movable relatively to the vessel with light forces, the means for accurately positioning the platform relatively to the vessel and the support structure, the means for placing the platform on the support structure in a resilient and or damping manner, etc.