# Bis 3 aminophenoxy aromatics and method of preparing the same

## Claims
Ein Verfahren zur Herstellung eines Bis 3 Aminophenoxy Derivates eines aromatischen oder eines aromatischen Brücken Kohlenwasserstoffs, welcher durch die folgende Formel beschrieben wird

## Description
The present invention relates to bis 3 aminophenoxy derivatives of aromatic or bridged aromatic hydrocarbons hereinafter abbreviated as bis 3 aminophenoxy derivatives and the method for preparing the same which comprises conducting a condensation reaction of m dinitrobenzene with dihydroxy derivatives of aromatic or bridged aromatic hydrocarbons hereinafter abbreviated as dihydroxy derivatives in dipolar aprotic solvents in the presence of bases, and successively reducing the bis 3 nitrophenoxy derivatives of aromatic or bridged aromatic hydrocarbons hereinafter abbreviated as bis 3 nitrophenoxy derivatives obtained thereby. Regarding bis 3 aminophenoxy derivatives represented by the following general formula where Y is a C₁ C₁₀ hydrocarbon, C CF₃ ₂ , CO , S , SO , SO₂ , or O , An object of the present invention is to provide a novel method for cheaply and industrially preparing bis 3 aminophenoxy derivatives and to provide useful and novel bis 3 aminophenoxy derivatives as starting materials for the production of high temperature stable polymers. An intensive investigation was conducted by the inventors of this invention to achieve the above object. Unexpectedly, a new fact was found that bis 3 nitrophenoxy derivatives can easily be derived from m dinitrobenzene by condensation with dihydroxy derivatives. The bis 3 aminophenoxy derivatives desired can then been achieved by reducing the bis 3 nitrophenoxy derivative Novel bis 3 aminophenoxy derivatives which have never before been prepared can be provided by the new method. Accordingly, the present invention provides a method for preparing a bis 3 aminophenoxy derivative of an aromatic or bridged aromatic hydrocarbon represented by the following general formula where X is where Y is a C₁ C₁₀ hydrocarbon, C CF₃ ₂ , CO , S , SO , SO₂ , or O , where X is the same as above. Many examples are known of the substitution reaction of aromatic nitro compounds, activated by o or p located electron withdrawing groups, with alcohols and phenols. H. M. Relles et al., J. Polym. Sci., Polym. Chem. Ed., Only a few examples, however, are known of the substitution reaction of inactive nitro compounds, such as in m dinitrobenzene, with alcohols, and only one example is found of the reaction with phenols. Thus According to the method of this invention, a variety of bis 3 aminophenoxy derivatives are prepared by performing the condensation reaction of m dinitrobenzene with dihydroxy derivatives, which has so far been supposed to be difficult. Therefore, the method of the present invention is very suitable for industrial application. The dihydroxy derivatives used in the present invention are represented by the following general formula where Y is a C₁ C₁₀ hydrocarbon, C CF₃ ₂ , CO , S , SO , SO₂ , or O , Specifically, the dihydroxy derivatives represented by the follwing general formula where Y is a C₁ C₁₀ hydrocarbon, C CF₃ ₂ , CO , S , SO , SO₂ , or O , The examples of dihydroxy derivatives also include hydroquinone, 4,4 dihydroxybiphenyl, 1 4 hydroxyphenyl 1,3,3 trimethyl 6 hydroxyindan, 6,6 dihydroxy 3,3,3 ,3 tetramethyl 1,1 spirobiindan and further include 2,2 bis 4 hydroxyphenyl propane derivatives represented by the following general formula where R₁, R₂ and R₃ are H, or CH₃, Bis 3 aminophenoxy derivatives obtained by the method of this invention and represented by the following general formula where X is the same as above, Further bis 3 aminophenoxy derivatives include, for example, 1,4 bis 3 aminophenoxy benzene, 4,4 bis 3 aminophenoxy biphenyl, 1 4 3 aminophenoxy phenyl 1,3,3 trimethyl 6 3 aminophenoxy indan and 6,6 bis 3 aminophenoxy 3,3,3 ,3 tetramethyl 1,1 spirobiindan. Still further bis 3 aminophenoxy derivatives are methyl substituted derivatives of 2,2 bis 4 3 aminophenoxy phenyl propane represented by the following general formula where R₁, R₂ and R₃ are H, or CH₃, The above stated derivatives are new compounds except for 1,4 bis 3 aminophenoxy benzene. In the method of this invention, the quantities used of the starting materials, such as the dihydroxy derivatives and m dinitrobenzene, are not limited, but normally m dinitrobenzene is employed in the range of 1.5 4.0 times by mol of the dihydroxy derivative. The bases used in the method of this invention may be alkali metal oxides, hydroxides, carbonates, hydrogen carbonates, hydrides or alkoxides, and include, for example, sodium oxide, lithium oxide potassium hydroxie, sodium hydroxide, lithium hydroxide, potassium carbonate, sodium carbonate, potassium hydrogen carbonate, sodium hydrogen carbonate, sodium hydride, sodium methoxide, sodium ethoxide, potassium tert butoxide and potassium propoxide. Among these bases, alkali metal carbonates and hydrogen carbonates are preferably used. These bases may be used singly or in combinations of two or more. The quantity used of these bases is normally in the range of 1 5 times by mol 1 10 equivalents , and preferably 1.5 3 times by mol of the dihydroxy derivative. Reaction accelerators which may be used when needed in the method of this invention, include quaternary ammonium salts, quaternary phosphonium salts, nitrogen containing aliphatic polyethers, macro cyclic polyethers such as crown ether, nitrogen containing macro cyclic polyethers such as cryptate, phase transfer catalysts such as polyethyleneglycol and its alkyl ethers, copper powder and copper salts. Among the reaction accelerators, nitrogen containing aliphatic polyethers represented by the following general formula The nitrogen containing aliphatic polyethers can be easily available TOKKOSHO 57 37580, 58 34464 . The polyethers of above general formula include, for example, tris 3,6 dioxaheptyl amine, tris 3,6,9 trioxadecyl amine, tris 3,6 dioxaoctyl amine, tris 3,6,9 trioxaundecyl amine, tris 3,6 dioxanonyl amine, tris 3,6,9 trioxadodecyl amine, tris 3,6 dioxadecyl amine, and tris 3,6,9 trioxatridecyl amine. Tris 3,6 dioxaheptyl amine is most frequently used for industrial application. The quantity in use of these nitrogen containing aliphatic polyethers is unlimited. The catalytic amounts are normally sufficient and in the range of 0.1 10 , preferably 0.2 5 by mol of dihydroxy derivatives The effect on accelerating the reaction depends upon the quantity and performance of applied catalysts. When the catalysts are 1 by mol of dihydroxy derivatives, reaction time can be reduced to a half to one tenth. The solvents used in the process of this invention are the dipolar aprotic solvents and include, for example, N,N dimethylformamide, N,N dimethylacetamide, dimethylsulfoxide, dimethylsulfone, sulfolane, 1 methyl 2 pyrrolidinon, 1,3 dimethyl 2 imidazolidinon, N,N,N ,N tetramethylurea, hexamethylphosphotriamide, and 1,3 dimethyl 3,4,5,6 tetrahydro 2 H pyrimidine The quantity of solvents is not limited in particular and normally 1 15 times, preferably 3 10 times by weight of the raw materials. On performing the reaction, procedures such as charging of the raw materials are not restricted. There are some procedures such as, for example When an alkali metal oxide or hydroxide is used as the base, water generated in the reaction system can be removed, for example, gradually by introducing a nitrogen stream, or by azeotropic distillation with a small quantity of benzene, toluene, xylene, chlorobenzene or the like. When carbonate or hydrogen carbonate is used, no particular dehydration procedure is required. Reaction temperatures are normally in the range of 100 240 C and preferably 120 180 C. Reaction time is normally 5 30 hours. At the end of the reaction, the reaction mixture is heated to distill off the solvents, or used as it is, and poured into water. The crude product thus obtained is used for the following reduction step as it is, or after purification when needed. The reduction process employed for the reducing reaction is not restricted in particular, conventional methods for reducing nitro groups to amino groups being applicable for example, as in A New Experimental Chemistry Course, vol 15, Oxidation and Reduction II , from Maruzen 1977 . Catalytic reduction or hydrazine reduction is preferred for industrial application. As to the catalyst used for catalytic reduction, conventional metal reducing catalysts can be employed which include, for example, nickel, palladium, platinum, rhodium, ruthenium, cobalt and copper. Palladium catalyst is the most preferred for industrial application. The catalyst can be used in a metallic state and is normally employed supported on a carrier medium such as carbon, barium sulfate, silica gel, alumina and zeolite. Nickel, cobalt and copper can also be used in the form of Raney catalysts. The quantity of catalyst used is not limited in particular and may be in the range of 0.01 10 by weight as metal on the dihydroxy derivative. Normally, the range is 2 8 by weight when the catalyst used is the metal alone, and 0.1 5 by weight when the catalyst is on a carrier. The solvents used for the reducing reaction are not limited in particular, unless they are active in the reaction, and include, for example, alcohols such as methanol, ethanol and isopropylalcohol glycols such as ethyleneglycol and propyleneglycol ethers such as diethylether, dioxane, tetrahydrofuran and ethyleneglycol monomethylether aliphatic hydrocarbons such as hexane and cyclohexane aromatic hydrocarbons such as benzene, toluene and xylene esters such as ethyl acetate and butyl acetate halogenated hydrocarbons such as dichloromethane, chloroform, tetrachloromethane, 1,2 dichloroethane, 1,1,2 trichloroethane and tetrachloroethane N,N dimethyl formamide and dimethylsulfoxide. When water immiscible solvents are used and the reaction speed is slow, the reaction can be accelerated by adding conventional phase transfer catalysts such as quaternary ammonium salts or quaternary phosphonium salts. The quantity of solvent is not critical and should be sufficient to suspend or dissolve the reaction material. A sufficient quantity of solvent is normally 0.5 10 times by weight of the reaction material. The reducing reaction temperatures are not limited in particular. The preferable range is generally 20 200 C and particularly 20 100 C. The reaction pressure is normally about ambient to 50 kg cm². The reaction is normally conducted by dissolving or suspending the reaction material in the solvent before adding the catalyst, followed by introducing hydrogen to perform reduction at the specified temperature under stirring. The end point of the reaction can be determined by the volume of hydrogen absorbed as well as by thin layer chromatography or high speed liquid chromatography. On the other hand, in reduction with hydrazine, it is sufficient to use a small excess of hydrazine above the theoretical quantity. Preferably, 1.2 2 times are used to perform the reduction. The same metal catalysts as those generally in use for catalytic reduction can again be used. Industrially preferred are palladium carbon, platinum carbon and ferric chloride absorbed on active carbon. The quantity of such catalyst used may be in the range of 0.05 30 by weight as metal on the bis 3 nitrophenoxy derivative. The solvents used in reduction with hydrazine are the same as for catalytic reduction. The reaction temperatures are not limited in particular and the preferred range is 20 150 C and move particularly 40 100 C. The reaction is normally conducted by dissolving or suspending the reaction material in the solvent before adding the catalyst, followed by dropping hydrazine to perform the reduction at the specified temperature under stirring. The end point of the reaction can be determined by thin layer chromatography or high speed liquid chromatography. At the end of the reaction, the resulting mixture is hot filtered to remove the catalyst, and the solvents are distilled off when necessary. The desired bis 3 aminophenoxy derivatives are obtained as crude products which can be purified by recrystallization or by isolating in the form of hydrochloride. The techniques of the invention will be illustrated further by means of the following Examples. A 3 l glass reaction vessel was charged with 186 grams 1.0 mol of 4,4 dihydroxybiphenyl, 438 grams 2.6 mols of m dinitrobenzene, 363 grams of potassium carbonate and 2,000 ml of N,N dimethylformamide. The mixture was reacted at 145 150 C for 16 hours. After the end of the reaction, the resultant mixture was cooled and filtered to remove KNO₂. The filtrate was heated in a vacuum to distill off the solvent, and cooled to 65 C, this being followed by adding 2,000 ml of methanol, and stirring for an hour. The separated crystals were filtered, washed with water and methanol successively, and dried to obtain 426 grams 99.5 yield of 4,4 bis 3 nitrophenoxy biphenyl as brown crystals. The purity was 91.0 based on liquid chromatography. A portion of the crude crystals was recrystallized from dimethylsulfoxide to give the pure compound as light yellow crystals having a melting point of 134 136 C. Analytical results were as follows. In the next step, a 1 l glass reaction vessel was charged with 100 grams 0.23 mol of crude 4,4 bis 3 nitrophenoxy biphenyl, 10 grams of active carbon, 1 gram of ferric chloride hexahydrate and 500 ml of ethyleneglycol monomethylether. The mixture was refluxed with stirring for 30 minutes, followed by dropwise addition of 46 grams 0.92 mol of hydrazine hydrate at 70 80 C during 3 hours. At the end of the addition, the resulting mixture was stirred at 70 80 C for 5 hours to complete the reaction. The reaction product was cooled, filtered to remove the catalyst, and poured into 500 ml of water. The separated crystals were filtered, dissolved into a hot mixture of 48 grams of 35 hydrochloric acid and 540 ml of 50 aqueous iso propylalcohol IPA solution, and allowed to cool. The separated 4,4 bis 3 aminophenoxy biphenyl hydrochloride was filtered, dissolved by warming in 540 ml of 50 aqueous IPA solution, and filtered again after adding 5 grams of active carbon. The filtrate was neutralized with aqueous ammonia and the separated crystals were filtered, washed with water and dried to obtain 72.0 grams 85 yield of 4,4 bis 3 aminophenoxy biphenyl as colorless crystals having a melting point of 144 146 C. The analytical results were as follows. A 1 l sealed glass vessel was charged with 100 g 0.23 mol of the crude 4,4 bis 3 nitrophenoxy biphenyl obtained in Example 1, 1 g of 5 Pd C made by Japan Engelhardt Co. and 350 ml of ethyleneglycol monomethylether. Hydrogen was introduced at 60 65 C with vigorous stirring. Absorption of hydrogen was stopped after 8 hours at the end of any reaction. The same after treatment and purification as in Example 1 were conducted to obtain 70.3 grams 83 yield of 4,4 bis 3 aminophenoxy biphenyl as colorless crystals having a melting point of 144 146 C and a purity of 99.3 based on high speed liquid chromatography. The reaction procedure of Example 1 was repeated except 3.2 grams 0.01 mol of tris 3,6 dioxaheptyl amine was added and reacted for 2 hours at 145 150 C. The same after treatment as Example 1 was conducted to obtain 426 grams 99.5 yield of 4,4 bis 3 nitrophenoxy biphenyl as yellow brown crystals having a purity of 97.5 based on liquid chromatography. A 5 l glass reaction vessel was charged with 343 grams 1.5 mols of 2,2 bis 4 hydroxyphenyl propane, 605 grams 3.6 mols of m dinitrobenzene, 498 grams 3.6 mols of potassium carbonate and 3.4 l of N,N dimethylformamide. The mixture was reacted at 145 150 C for 10 hours, cooled after the end of the reaction, and filtered to remove KNO₂. The filtrate was distilled in a vacuum to remove the solvent, cooled to 65 C, mixed with 1.8 l of methanol and stirred for an hour. The separated crystals were filtered, washed with water and methanol successively, and dried to obtain 660 grams 93.5 yield of 2,2 bis 4 3 nitrophenoxy phenyl propane as yellow brown crystals, having a purity of 93 based on liquid chromatography. A portion of the crude crystals was recrystallized from ethyleneglycol monomethylether. Pure crystals were obtained as light yellow prisms having a melting point of 111 113 C and their analysis was as follows. In the second step, a 500 ml glass reaction vessel was charged with 100 grams 0.21 mol of 2,2 bis 4 3 nitrophenoxy phenyl propane, 10 grams of active carbon, 1 gram of ferric chloride hexa hydrate and 300 ml of ethyleneglycol monomethylether. The mixture was refluxed with stirring for 30 minutes, followed by addition by dropping of 42 grams 0.84 mol of hydrazine hydrate at 70 80 C during 2 hours, and the mixture was stirred for a further 5 hours at 70 80 C. The resultant reaction mixture was cooled, and filtered to remove the catalyst and 150 ml of ethyleneglycol monomethylether was distilled off. To the residual matter, 270 grams of 20 aqueous hydrogen chloride solution and 30 grams of sodium chloride were added, and the mixture cooled to 20 25 C with stirring. The separated crystals were filtered, dissolved into 30 aqueous IPA solution and neutralized with aqueous ammonia to re separate the crystals. The crystals were filtered, washed with water, dried and recrystallized from a mixture of benzene and n hexane. Colorless crystals of 2,2 bis 4 3 aminophenoxy phenyl propane thus obtained were 69.2 grams 75 yield and had a melting point of 106 108 C and their analysis was as follows. A 300 ml sealed glass vessel was charged with 50 grams 0.11 mol of crude 2,2 bis 4 3 nitrophenoxy phenyl propane prepared by the same method as in Example 4, 2.5 grams of 5 Pd C and 150 ml of ethyleneglycol monomethylether. Hydrogen was introduced at 60 65 C with vigorous stirring. The absorption of hydrogen was stopped after 8 hours at the end of any reaction. The after treatment and purification of Example 4 were repeated to afford 36.6 grams 79 yield of 2,2 bis 4 3 aminophenoxy phenyl propane as colorless crystals having a melting point of 106 108 C and a purity of 99.6 based on high speed liquid chromatography. The reaction procedure of Example 4 was repeated except 4.85 grams 0.015 mol of tris 3,6 dioxaheptyl amine was added and reacted at 150 C for 4 hours. The same after treatments as in Example 4 were conducted to afford 705.4 grams 99.8 yield of 2,2 bis 4 3 nitrophenoxy phenyl propane as yellow brown crystals having a purity of 98 based on liquid chromatography. A 200 ml glass reaction vessel was charged with 20 grams 0.059 mol of 2,2 bis 4 hydroxyphenyl 1,1,1,3,3,3 hexafluoropropane, 24 grams 0.14 mol of m dinitrobenzene, 19.4 grams of potassium carbonate and 100 ml of N,N dimethylformamide. The mixture was reacted for 7 hours at 140 150 C. At the end of the reaction, the resultant mixture was cooled and poured into 1,000 ml of water to separate crude 2,2 bis 4 3 nitrophenoxy phenyl 1,1,1,3,3,3 hexafluoropropane as tarry matter. The tarry matter was dissolved into benzene and washed with water. The benzene layer was dehydrated with magnesium sulfate and subjected to column chromatography to obtain 28.3 grams 83 yield of pure 2,2 bis 4 3 nitrophenoxy phenyl 1,1,1,3,3,3 hexafluoropropane as a yellow oil. The IR spectrum of this compound identified the desired product by the absence of hydroxyl absorption and by the presence of ether absorption. A 500 ml glass reaction vessel was charged with 20 grams 0.093 mol of 4,4 dihydroxybenzophenone, 37.5 grams 0.22 mol of m dinitrobenzene, 30 grams of potassium carbonate and 350 ml of sulfolane. The mixture was reacted at 160 170 C for 10 hours. At the end of the reaction, the resultant mixture was poured into 2,000 ml of water and stirred for 30 minutes. The separated crystals were filtered, washed with water and dried to obtain 39 grams 92 yield of 4,4 bis 3 nitrophenoxy benzophenone as brown crystals. A portion of the crude crystals was recrystallized from ethyleneglycol monomethylether to obtain the pure compound as light yellow crystals having a melting point of 189 191 C. The analytical results were as follows In the next step, a 300 ml glass reaction vessel was charged with 25 grams 0.06 mol of crude 4,4 bis 3 nitrophenoxy benzophenone, 2.5 grams of active carbon, 0.25 gram of ferric chloride hexahydrate and 130 ml of ethyleneglycol monomethylether. The mixture was stirred for 30 minutes at 70 80 C and then 12 grams 0.24 mol of hydrazine hydrate were added dropwise at 70 80 C during 2 hours and stirred for further 6 hours at 70 80 C. The resultant reaction mixture was cooled, filtered to remove the catalyst, and the solvent was distilled off. The residue was dissolved by warming into the mixture of 13 grams of 35 hydrochloric acid and 60 ml of water, and 6 grams of sodium chloride were added, and cooled to separate the hydrochloride of the product. The hydrochloride was filtered, recrystallized again from 10 aqueous sodium chloride solution and dissolved by warming into 90 grams of 50 aqueous IPA solution. Then 1 gram of active carbon was added to the resulting hydrochloride solution which was filtered and neutralized with aqueous ammonia to separate crystals. The crystals were filtered, washed with water, dried to obtain 19.0 grams 80 yield of 4,4 bis 3 aminophenoxy benzophenone as colorless crystals having a melting point of 142 144 C. The analytical results were as follows. A reaction vessel was charged with 20 grams 0.08 mol of 4,4 dihydroxydiphenylsulfone, 32.3 grams 0.19 mol of m dinitrobenzene, 26.1 grams of potassium carbonate and 150 ml of N,N dimethylformamide. The mixture was reacted for 15 hours at 145 150 C. At the end of the reaction, the resultant mixture was poured into 2,000 ml of water and stirred for 30 minutes. The separated crystals were filtered, washed with water, and dried to obtain 35.4 grams 90 yield of 4,4 bis 3 nitrophenoxy diphenylsulfone as brown crystals. A portion of the crude crystals was recrystallized from benzene to obtain the pure compound as light yellow crystals having a melting point of 148 150 C. The analytical results were as follows. In the next step, a 300 ml glass reaction vessel was charged with 25 grams 0.055 mol of crude 4,4 bis 3 nitrophenoxy diphenylsulfone, 2.5 grams of active carbon, 0.25 gram of ferric chloride hexahydrate and 130 ml of ethyleneglycol monomethylether, and the mixture refluxed for 30 minutes with stirring. After adding by dropping 11 grams 0.22 mol of hydrazine hydrate at 70 80 C during 2 hours, the mixture was stirred for a further 6 hours at 70 80 C, followed by cooling and filtering to remove the catalyst. The solvent was distilled off in a vacuum and then 12 grams of 35 hydrochloric acid and 73 ml of water were added to the residue which was dissolved by warming. Hydrochloride was separated by cooling after the addition of 7 grams of sodium chloride. The hydrochloride was filtered and recrystallized from 10 aqueous sodium chloride solution and then dissolved into 100 ml of 50 squeous IPA solution and filtered after adding 1 gram of active carbon. The filtrate was neutralized with aqueous ammonia to separate crystals which were filtered, washed with water and dried. By recrystallizing from ethanol, 18.8 grams 79 yield of 4,4 bis 3 aminophenoxy diphenylsulfone was obtained as colorless crystals having a melting point of 134 136 C. The analytical results were as follows. A reaction vessel was charged with 218 grams 1 mol of 4,4 dihydroxydiphenylsulfide, 403 grams 2.4 mols of m dinitrobenzene, 331 grams 2.4 mols of potassium carbonate and 2.5 l of N,N dimethylformamide. The mixture was reacted at 145 150 C for 20 hours. At the end of the reaction, the resultant mixture was cooled, filtered and distilled in a vacuum to remove the solvents. The residue was cooled to 65 C, charged with 800 ml of methanol and stirred for an hour. The separated crystals were filtered, washed with methanol and dried to obtain 429 grams 92.3 yield of 4,4 bis 3 nitrophenoxy diphenylsulfide. The crude crystals had a purity of 85 based on liquid chromatography, and were recrystallized from ethyleneglycol monomethylether to obtain the pure compound as light yellow crystals having a melting point of 97 99 C corr. . In the next step, a reaction vessel was charged with 428 grams 0.93 mol of the crude product thus obtained, 22.6 grams of active carbon, 0.9 gram of ferric chloride hexahydrate and 1.5 l of ethyleneglycol monomethylether and the mixture stirred under reflux for 30 minutes, followed by the addition by dropping of 155.2 grams 3.1 mols of hydrazine monohydrate during 2 hours and further stirring for 3.5 hours under reflux. The resultant mixture was cooled, filtered to remove the catalyst and concentrated in a vacuum. The residue had added to it 205 ml of 35 hydrochloric acid, 1,120 ml of water and 480 ml of IPA and was dissolved by warming, after which 20 grams of active carbon were added, and the mixture hot filtered. After adding 112 grams of sodium chloride, the filtrate was cooled to separate hydrochloride crystals. The crystals were filtered and neutralized with aqueous ammonia, and 265 grams 66 yield of 4,4 bis 3 aminophenoxy diphenylsulfide was obtained as colorless crystals having a melting point of 112.4 113.4 C corr. . The analytical results were as follows. The procedure of Example 10 was repeated except 3.23 grams 0.01 mol of tris 3,6 dioxaheptyl amine was added and reacted for 5 hours at 145 150 C. The same after treatment as in Example 10 was performed and 453 grams 98.5 yield of 4,4 bis 3 nitrophenoxy diphenylsulfide were obtained as yellow brown crystals. The purity was 95 based on liquid chromatography. A reaction vessel was charged with 21 grams 0.125 mol of m dinitrobenzene, 5.5 grams 0.05 mol of hydroquinone, 13.8 grams 0.1 mol of anhydrous potassium carbonate and 100 ml of dimethylsulfoxide. The reaction was conducted at 130 135 C for 7 hours with stirring under nitrogen. At the end of the reaction, the resultant mixture was poured into 300 ml of water to separate brown crystals. The crystals were filtered, dried, dissolved by warming in 100 ml of benzene, and hot filtered to remove insoluble matter. The filtrate was concentrated to separate light brown crystals. The crystals were filtered, washed with hot methanol, and dried to obtain 10.3 grams 58.5 yield of 1,4 bis 3 nitrophenoxy benzene, which was recrystallized from benzene to obtain the pure product as light brown prisms having a melting point of 158 160 C. In the next step, a reaction vessel was charged with 7 grams 0.02 mol of the 1,4 bis 3 nitrophenoxy benzene obtained above, 0.1 gram of 5 Pd C catalyst and 25 ml of IPA and hydrogen gas was introduced with vigorous stirring. The reaction was carried out at 60 70 C for 4 hours and hydrogen absorption stopped at 2,700 ml. After the end of the reaction, the resultant mixture was immediately hot filtered at the same temperature and allowed to cool. 1,4 Bis 3 aminophenoxy benzene separated as white needles which were filtered, washed and dried to obtain 5.35 grams 91.5 yield of pure product having a melting point of 126 127 C. A reaction vessel with a stirrer, thermometer, and reflux condenser was charged with 67.1 grams 0.25 mol of 1 4 hydroxyphenyl 1,3,3 trimethyl 6 hydroxyindan, 100.9 grams 0.6 mol of m dinitrobenzene, 69.1 grams 0.5 mol of anhydrous potassium carbonate and 650 ml of N,N dimethylformamide. The reaction was carried out at 150 153 C for 7 hours with stirring under nitrogen. After the end of the reaction, the resultant mixture was filtered to remove inorganic salt and concentrated in a vacuum using an evaporator. The brown oily residue thus obtained was mixed with 280 ml of ethyleneglycol monomethylether and 20 ml of water, dissolved by warming, and allowed to cool. The separated crystals were filtered, washed and dried to obtain 112.5 grams 88.1 yield of 1 4 3 nitrophenoxy phenyl 1,3,3 trimethyl 6 3 nitrophenoxy indan. By recrystallizing from ethanol, the pure product was obtained as light yellow needles having a melting point of 90 92 C. In the next step, a sealed reduction vessel with a stirrer and thermometer was charged with 10.21 grams 0.02 mol of 1 4 3 nitrophenoxy phenyl 1,3,3 trimethyl 6 3 nitrophenoxy indan obtained as above, 0.3 gram of 5 Pd C catalyst and 30 ml of ethanol, and hydrogen gas was introduced with vigorous stirring. The reaction was carried out at 62 68 C for 4 hours and hydrogen absorption stopped at 2,760 ml. After the end of the reaction, the resulting mixture was filtered to remove the catalyst and concentrated in an evaporator to recover the solvent. The concentrated residue was mixed with 6.5 grams of concentrated hydrochloric acid and 50 ml of 20 aqueous IPA solution, and dissolved by warming, active carbon was added and the mixture hot filtered. The filtrate was dropped into dilute aqueous ammonia to separate precipitate which was filtered, washed and dried. 1 4 3 aminophenoxy phenyl 1,3,3 trimethyl 6 3 aminophenoxy indan was obtained in an amount of 8.5 grams 94.3 yield and had a melting point of 70 72 C. The analytical results were as follows. An autoclave was charged with 12.8 grams of 1 4 3 nitrophenoxy phenyl 1,3,3 trimethyl 6 3 nitrophenoxy indan as obtained in Example 13, 1 gram of Raney nickel catalyst and 50 ml of diethyleneglycol dimethylether. Reduction was carried out at 80 90 C for an hour under a hydrogen pressure of 30 kg cm². The after treatment of Example 13 was repeated to obtain 9.3 grams 82.5 yield of the desired product having a melting point of 70 72 C. A reaction vessel with a stirrer, thermometer, and reflux condenser was charged with 77.1 grams 0.25 mol of 6,6 dihydroxy 3,3,3 ,3 tetramethyl 1,1 spirobiindan, 100.9 grams 0.6 mol of m dinitrobenzene, 69.1 grams 0.5 mol of anhydrous potassium carbonate and 650 ml of N,N dimethylformamide. The reaction was conducted at 150 153 C for 12 hours with stirring under nitrogen. After the end of the reaction, the resultant mixture was poured into 650 ml of water. The separated light brown precipitate was filtered, washed with IPA and dried. 6,6 Bis 3 nitrophenoxy 3,3,3 ,3 tetramethyl 1,1 spirobiindan was obtained in an amount of 116.5 grams 84.6 yield The pure product was prepared by recrystallizing from ethylalcohol as light brown needles having a melting point of 173.5 175 C. In the next step, a sealed reduction vessel with a stirrer and thermometer was charged with 11 grams 0.02 mol of 6,6 bis 3 nitrophenoxy 3,3,3 ,3 tetramethyl 1,1 spirobiindan, 0.3 g of 5 Pd C catalyst and 40 ml of ethyleneglycol monomethylether, and hydrogen gas was introduced with vigorous stirring. The mixture was reacted at 70 80 C for 8 hours and hydrogen absorption stopped at 2,650 ml. At the end of the reaction, the resultant mixture was hot filtered to remove the catalyst and diluted with 50 ml IPA. The separated crystals were filtered, washed with IPA and dried. 6,6 Bis 3 aminophenoxy 3,3,3 ,3 tetramethyl 1,1 spirobiindan was obtained as white needles in an amount of 7.5 grams 76.4 yield and had a melting point of 205 206 C. The analytical results were as follows. The procedure of Example 15 was repeated using 80 grams 0.8 mol of anhydrous potassium hydrogen carbonate in place of anhydrous potassium carbonate and 800 ml of 1,3 dimethyl 2 imidazolidinon in place of N, N dimethylformamide. The reaction was conducted at 170 175 C for 10 hours. The intermediate thus obtained, 6,6 bis 3 nitrophenoxy 3,3,3 ,3 tetramethyl 1,1 spirobiindan, was 112 grams in amount 81.4 yield . A reduction vessel was charged with 11 grams of the intermediate compound thus obtained, 0.2 gram of 5 Pt C catalyst and 100 ml of ethanol, and reduction was conducted by introducing hydrogen under vigorous stirring. After the end of the reaction, the resultant mixture was filtered to remove the catalyst, and concentrated, followed by addition by dropping of 75 grams of 15 aqueous hydrochloric acid. The separated hydrochloride of the desired product was filtered, washed with water and neutralized with stirring in dilute aqueous ammonia. The separated crystals were filtered, washed with water and dried to obtain 8.75 grams 89.2 yield of the desired product having a melting point of 205 206 C. A 1 l glass reaction vessel was charged with 71 grams 0.25 mol of 2,2 bis 4 hydroxy 3,5 dimethylphenyl propane, 100.9 grams 0.6mol of m dinitrobenzene, 82.8 grms of potassium carbonate and 660 ml of N,N dimethylformamide. The mixture was reacted at 140 150 C for 15 hours. After the end of the reaction, the resultant mixture was cooled, and filtered to remove potassim nitrite and the solvent was distilled from the filtrate. The residue was cooled to 90 C, 700 ml of water was added and the mixture stirred for an hour. The separated crystals were filtered, and washed with water to obtain crude 2,2 bis 3,5 dimethyle 4 3 nitrophenoxy phenyl propane as brown crystals. In the next step, a 1 l glass reaction vessel was charged with the brown crystals above obtained, 13 grams of active carbon, 1.3 grams of ferric chloride hexahydrate and 550 ml of ethyleneglycol monomethylether, and the mixture refluxed for 30 minutes with stirring. Then 50 grams 1.0 mol of hydrazine hydrate was added by dropping at 70 80 C during 2 hours and stirring was continued for a further 7 hours at 70 80 C. The reaction mixture was cooled, filtered to remove the catalyst and ethyleneglycol monomethylether was distilled off. The residue had added to it successively 250 grams of 30 aqueous hydrochloric acid, 120 ml of methanol and 30 grams of sodium chloride and the mixture was cooled to 20 25 C with stirring. The separated cystals were filtered, and dissolved into 560 ml of 50 aqueous methanol solution, 50 grams of sodium chloride were added and the mixture was cooled with stirring to 20 25 C. The separated crystals were filtered, neutralized in water with ammonia, and filtered, washed with water and dried. By recrystallizing from a solvent mixture of toluene and n heptane, 88.5 grams 76 yield of 2,2 bis 3,5 dimethyl 4 3 aminophenoxy phenyl propane were obtained as pale brown crystals having a melting point of 112 114 C. The analytical results were as follows. A 1 l glass reaction vessel was charged with 64 grams 0.25 mol of 2,2 bis 4 hydroxy 3 methylphenyl propane, 100.9 grams 0.6 mol of m dinitrobenzene, 82.8 grams of potassium carbonate and 650 ml of N,N dimethylformamide. The mixture was reacted at 145 150 C for 8 hours, cooled at the end of the reaction and poured into 3 l of water. 2,2 Bis 3 methyl 4 3 nitrophenoxy phenyl propane separated as tarry matter. The tarry matter was washed with water. In the next step, a 1 l glass reaction vessel was charged with the above obtained tarry matter, 12 grams of active carbon, 1.2 grams of ferric chloride hexahydrate and 630 ml of ethyleneglycol monomethylether and the mixture was refluxed for 30 minutes with stirring. The mixture had added to it by dropping 50 grams 1.0 mol of hydrazine hydrate at 70 80 C during 2 hours and was then stirred for 6 hours under reflux. After the end of the reaction, the resulting mixture was cooled, filtered to remove the catalyst and ethyleneglycol monomethylether was distilled off. The residue was mixed with 500 ml of 20 aqueous methanol solution and 62.5 grams of concentrated hydrochloric acid, and dissolved by warming, after which 60 grams of sodium chloride was added and the mixture cooled to 20 25 C. The separated crystals were filtered and dissolved again by warming in 450 ml of 20 aqueous methanol solution, 45 grams of sodium chloride were added and the mixture cooled with stirring to 20 25 C. The separated crystals were filtered, neutralized in water with aqueous ammonia, filtered again and washed with water. The crystals thus obtained were dissolved by warming in toluene and the separated water layer was removed. Crystals were separated by adding n heptane to the solution, and were filtered and dried to obtain 79.5 grams 72.6 yield of 2.2 bis 3 methyl 4 3 aminophenoxy phenyl propane as pale brown crystals having a melting point of 146 148 C. The analytical results were as follows. A 1 l glass reaction vessel was charged with 60.5 grams 0.25 mol of 2 4 hydroxy 3 methylphenyl 2 4 hydroxyphenyl propane, 100.9 grams 0.6 mol of m dinitrobenzene, 82.8 grams of potassium carbonate and 650 ml of N,N dimethylformamide. The mixture was reacted at 140 150 C for 12 hours, cooled after the end of the reaction, and poured into 3 l of water. Pale brown crystals were obtained in an amount of 109 grams 90.0 yield of crude 2 3 methyl 4 3 nitrophenoxy phenyl 2 4 3 nitrophenoxy phenyl propane having a melting point of 114 116 C. In the second step, a 1 l glass reaction vessel was charged with the above obtained pale brown crystals, 12 grams of active carbon, 1.2 grams of ferric chloride hexahydrate and 600 ml of IPA and the mixture stirred for 30 minutes under reflux. Then 50 grams 1.0 mol of hydrazine hydrate was dropped into the mixture at 70 80 C during 2 hours, and the mixture refluxed for a further 6 hours with stirring. The resultant mixture was cooled, filtered to remove the catalyst, and ethyleneglycol monomethylether was distilled off. The residue was mixed with 500 ml of 10 aqueous methanol solution and 62.6 grams of concentrated hydrochloric acid, and dissolved by warming, after which 50 grams of sodium chloride was added and the mixture cooled to 20 25 C with stirring. The separated crystals were filtered, mixed with 450 ml of 10 aqueous methanol solution and dissolved by warming, 45 grams of sodium chloride were added and the mixture cooled to 20 25 C with stirring. The separated crystals were filtered, neutralized with aqueous ammonia in toluene with stirring, and dissolved by warming, with removal of the separated water layer. n Heptane was added to the solution. The separated crystals were filtered and dried to obtain 74.8 grams 70.5 yield of 2 3 methyl 4 3 aminophenoxy phenyl 2 4 3 aminophenoxy phenyl propane as pale brown crystals having a melting point of 114 116 C. The analytical results were as follows. A 1 l glass reaction vessel was charged with 64 grams 0.25 mol of 2 4 hydroxy 3,5 dimethylphenyl 2 4 hydroxyphenyl propane, 100.9 grams 0.6 mol of m dinitrobenzene, 82.8 grams of potassium carbonate and 630 ml of N,N dimethylformamide. The mixture was reacted at 140 150 C for 14 hours, cooled after the end of the reaction, and poured into 3,000 ml of water. The pale brown crystals obtained were 106 grams 85.0 yield of crude 2 3,5 dimethyle 4 3 nitrophenoxy phenyl 2 4 3 nitrophenoxy phenyl propane having a melting point of 137 139 C. In the next step, a 1 l glass vessel was charged with the above obtained pale brown crystals, 12 grams of active carbon, 1.2 grams of ferric chloride hexahydrate and 630 ml of ethyleneglycol monomethylether, and the mixture refluxed for 30 minutes with stirring. Then 50 grams 1.0 mol of hydrazine hydrate was added by dropping during 2 hours, and the mixture stirred for a further 8 hours under reflux, cooled, and filtered to remove the catalyst, and ethyleneglycol monomethylether was distilled off. The residue was mixed with 500 ml of 25 aqueous methanol solution and 62.5 grams of concentrated hydrochloric acid, and dissolved by warming, and 50 grams of sodium chloride were added and the mixture cooled to 20 25 C with stirring. The separated crystals, were filtered, mixed with 400 ml of 25 aqueous methanol solution, and dissolved by warming, and 40 grams of sodium chloride were added and the mixture cooled to 20 25 C with stirring. The separated crystals were filtered, neutralized in water with aqueous ammonia, filtered again, and washed with water. The crystals thus obtained were dissolved in toluene by warming and the separated water layer was removed. n Heptane was added to the solution. The separated crystals were filtered and dried. The pale brown crystals obtained were 82.1 grams 75 yield of 2 3,5 dimethyl 4 3 aminophenoxy phenyl 2 4 3 aminophenoxy phenyl propane having a melting point of 137 139 C. Results of analysis were as follows.