# RECORDING METHODS AND RECORDING AND OR REPRODUCING APPARATUS

## Claims
Verfahren zum Aufzeichnen mehrerer Audiosignale und Dateneinheitsignale bezüglich der Audiosignale auf einem Magnetband, wobei

## Description
This invention relates to recording methods and recording and or reproducing apparatus. In a previously proposed dictating and recording system using a plurality of remote controllers connected to a tape recorder to record an audio signal at a distant place, information data, such as a recording time, an identifying number, and the like, corresponding to an information unit signal relating to each audio signal are simultaneously recorded with the audio signal. In that case, the audio signal and the data are respectively recorded adjacent to each other but on different tracks. Upon reproducing, the data are first extracted and read out from the track, and then the corresponding audio signal indicated by such data is reproduced and heard. In this case, the audio signal and the data are recorded on a magnetic tape with a recording format as, for example, shown in Figure 1 of the accompanying drawings. That is, this recording system is such one in which audio signals messages MSG1, MSG2, MSG3, MSG4, ... are respectively recorded on an audio track AT and respective data are recorded on a data track DT at the positions which correspond to the end portion of each audio signal. When it is intended to read out the data, it is necessary to read all of the data recorded on the tape. As a result, the whole of the tape must be rewound, fast forwarded, and so on, thereby to search for the recorded position of each data and then to read out the data. Thus, substantial time is required for extracting and reading out the data. Moreover, upon recording of an information unit signal which needs emergency attention, its identifying number is assigned and the information unit signal with the identifying number superimposed is inputted thereto, while at the recorder side, the identifying number is evaluated, and hence the emergency indication that the recorded data or content should be processed is apparent. In this case, however, since the position on the tape at which the content needing the emergency attention is stored is indicated by the identifying number data, which are printed on an index slip delivered when the corresponding tape is ejected, the necessary checking operation requires substantial time, so the handling becomes troublesome. US patent specification US A 4 357 638 discloses a picture information filing system using an endless magnetic tape with a plurality of picture information recording tracks for storing picture information in predetermined blocks, and an index information recording track. The index information is reproduced, temporarily stored in a random access memory, updated, and recorded in predetermined blocks of the index information recording track. According to the present invention there is provided a method of recording on a magnetic tape a plurality of audio signals and data unit signals relating to said audio signals, the method comprising According to the present invention there is also provided a recording and reproducing apparatus for recording and reproducing a plurality of audio signals and a data unit signal relating to each of said audio signals on and or from a magnetic tape, the apparatus comprising Thus, an embodiment of the invention may provide a recording system suitable for a recording format in which respective audio signals are consecutively recorded on a first recording track on a recording medium and respective information data corresponding to the respective audio signals are recorded together on a second recording track of the recording medium, while when the recorded information is read out, it is not necessary to search almost all of the recording medium, but regardless of the reproducing position for the recording medium, the audio signals can be rapidly and easily extracted and read out. The invention will now be described by way of example with reference to the accompanying drawings, throughout which like parts are referred to by like references, and in which Referring to Figure 2, the embodiment of recording and or reproducing apparatus comprises a recording head 1, a reproducing head 2 and an erase head 3 for an audio track, while there are also provided a recording head 4, a reproducing head 5 and an erase head 6 for a data track. A system control circuit 7 is provided which is arranged to control respective elements in order to carry out a series of operations relating to the tape transportation and various operations done by function key input. The erase heads 3 and 6 are connected to terminals T2 and T4 respectively of the system control circuit 7. A remote station or user terminal apparatus 8 is located at a remote place. This user terminal apparatus 8 incorporates therein a microphone 8a and includes ten keys and a tone encoder not shown , so that a recording signal can be supplied to the main body of a tape recorder located at the remote place by using the microphone 8a, and so that a tone encode signal corresponding to each of the ten keys is generated and transmitted to the main body of the tape recorder as a command. The audio signal from the microphone 8a is supplied through an amplifier 9 to one of the input sides of an adder 10. A low frequency oscillator 11 is controlled by the control signal derived from a terminal T1 of the system control circuit 7. Upon recording, the low frequency oscillator 11 generates a particular low frequency signal, for example, a signal with the frequency of 20 Hz, which is fed to the other input side of the adder 10, in which it is superimposed upon the audio signal from the microphone 8a. An amplifier 12 is connected between the adder 10 and the audio recording head 1. An amplifier 13 is provided at the output side of the audio reproducing head 2 and a high pass filter 14 is provided at the output side of the amplifier 13. Low pass filters 15 and 16 are also provided at the output side of the amplifier 13. The high pass filter 14 removes the low frequency signal generated by the low frequency oscillator 11. The low pass filter 15 detects the low frequency signal generated by the low frequency oscillator 11, while the low pass filter 16 detects a low frequency signal of an original audio signal. At the output side of the high pass filter 14, there are provided an amplifier 17 and a loudspeaker 18, while at the output sides of the low pass filters 15 and 16, there is provided a comparator 19. The comparator 19 has a predetermined reference value Vref, and when the output levels of the low pass filter 15 and 16 exceed this reference value Vref, the comparator 19 produces an output signal which will be fed to a terminal T3 of the system control circuit 7, whereby it is confirmed whether or not an information is recorded on the recording medium magnetic tape , or whether or not at least the low frequency signal 20 Hz exists thereon. A memory 20 is provided which stores therein data information corresponding to each of the audio signals, and a display apparatus 21 is provided which displays thereon the data information, and so on, corresponding to the audio signal that is recorded on the tape. The display apparatus 21 includes a first display section 21a, a second display section 21b, and a third display section 21c. As will be described later, the first display section 21a is used to display thereon all the data information corresponding to the respective audio signals information unit signals that will be recorded on the tape the second display section 21b is used to display thereon the data information of each information unit and the third display section 21c is used to display thereon a priority, and so on, by lighting an indicator lamp thereof. A data generator 22 is provided which, under the control of the system control circuit 7, converts the data information read out from the memory 20 to a recording format that can be recorded on the tape. A data recording driver 23 is provided between the data recording head 4 and the data generator 22. At the output side of the data reproducing head 5, there are provided an amplifier 24 and a waveform reshaper 25. The data information played back from the tape by the data reproducing head 5 is supplied through the amplifier 24 and the waveform reshaper 25 to a terminal T6 of the system control circuit 7. The data information supplied thereto is stored in the memory 20 and then displayed on the display apparatus 21. A timer 26 is provided so as to measure a recording time of the audio signal and a counter 27 is provided which counts the rotations of a reel so as to detect a tape position. The outputs from the timer 26 and the counter 27 are both fed to a terminal T7 of the system control circuit 7. An operation section 28 of the tape recorder proper includes a playback button PLAY , a fast forward button FF , a rewind button REW , a stop button STOP , an eject button EJECT , and so on. In this case, the recording of the audio signal on the tape is carried out by operating a recording button not shown provided on the user terminal apparatus 8 and the system control circuit 7. The operation section 28 and a terminal T8 of the system control circuit 7 are connected to each other. For the operation section 28, there are provided a mechanical deck section 29 and a motor 30 of the tape recorder, respectively. Terminals T9 and T10 of the system control circuit 7 are connected to a search switch SEARCH 31 and a scroll switch SCROLL 32, respectively. The scroll switch 32 is used when each information data stored in the memory 20 is displayed on the display apparatus 21, while the search switch 31 is used when the position or the beginning of the audio signal the information unit is detected on the basis of the information data displayed on the display apparatus 21. A tone detecter 33 is provided, which detects and identifies the tone signals corresponding to the ten keys which are sent from the user terminal apparatus 8. An identifying apparatus 34 is formed of, for example, an AND gate to identify the priority number and checks whether the signal from the tone decoder 33 coincides with the priority number or not. The output signal from the identifying apparatus 34 is supplied to a terminal T11 of the system control circuit 7, instructing that the information to be recorded must be processed immediately. Also, the output signal from the tone decoder 33 is supplied to a terminal T12 of the system control circuit 7. In this case, if such output signal is not coincident with the tone signal of the priority number, the system control circuit 7 indicates that the information to be recorded is the information of the normal recording mode which does not need the emergency processing. A tape detecting switch 35 is provided which detects whether or not a tape cassette is mounted on a cassette compartment portion. The operation of this circuit shown in Figure 2 will be described next with reference to Figures 3A to 3C and Figure 4. At first, upon normal recording, before recording, the ten keys of the user terminal apparatus 8 are operated to input a predetermined identifying code ID indicative of what style the recording information will be dictated in, how the recording information will be processed or who is the applicant for the information to be recorded, etc. Then, the tone encoder not shown within the user terminal apparatus 8 generates the tone signal corresponding to the key input and the resultant tone signal is transferred to the tone decoder 33 at the tape recorder deck side. The tone decoder 33 interprets the tone signal transmitted, and supplies the decoded output to the identifying apparatus 34. In this case, since the mode is the normal recording mode that does not need emergency processing, based upon the signal supplied from the tone decoder 33 to the terminal T12 of the system control circuit 7, the system control circuit 7 allows the output signal from the terminal T1 to operate the low frequency amplifier 11 and also allows through the operation section 28 to place the mechanical deck section 29 and the motor 30 in the recording mode. Consequently, the audio signal from the microphone 8a of the user terminal apparatus 8 as the information unit is amplified by the amplifier 9 and then fed to one input side of the adder 10, in which it is added to a low frequency signal having the frequency of 20 Hz supplied to the other input side of the adder 10 from the low frequency oscillator 11. The audio signal superimposed with the low frequency signal is amplified by the amplifier 12 and then fed to the audio recording head 1, and thereby recorded on the tape. During a period in which this audio signal is recorded on the tape, the system control circuit 7 permits the memory 20 to store therein various information relating to the audio signal, such as the recording time, the recording position tape position , the degree of emergency, the identification code ID , etc., as information data. When the recording of the audio signal is ended, or when a recording stop information, such as a stop information STOP and so on is supplied to the system control circuit 7 by operating the ten keys on the user terminal apparatus 8, the various information relating to the audio signal and so far accumulated in the memory 20 are read out from the memory 20 and supplied to the data generator 22 in which they are converted to be the information data conforming to the recording format of the tape. The information data from the data generator 22 are supplied through the driver 23 to the data recording head 4, whereby the information data are recorded on the data track of the tape. When the aforesaid recording of the audio signal is ended, the operation of the low frequency generator 11 is stoped by the control of the system control circuit 7. Then, after the information data have been recorded on the tape, the tape is rewound up to the beginning of the information data, that is, the point at which the recording of the audio signal is ended, and is then stopped. In other words, the recording or reproducing heads are all placed at the boundary between the audio signal and the information data. Accordingly, at that time, the recorded state of the tape becomes as shown in Figure 3A. In Figure 3A, reference AT designates the audio track and DT designates the data track, respectively. Figure 3A illustrates that an audio signal MSG1 superimposed with the low frequency signal is recorded on the audio track AT and for this audio signal MSG1, the information data are recorded on the data track DT as data 1. When the mode is changed from the illustrated state of Figure 3A to the next recording mode, and an audio signal MSG2 is supplied from the side of the user terminal apparatus 8 as the next information unit signal, the system control circuit 7 permits the low frequency oscillator 11 to operate, and the low frequency signal from the low frequency oscillator 11 is supplied to the adder 10 and therein superimposed upon the audio signal so that it is recorded on the audio track AT by the audio recording head 1 as the audio signal MSG2. At the same time, the data 1 recorded on the data track DT are once erased by the erase head 6. Moreover, during a period when the audio signal MSG2 is recorded on the audio track AT, similarly as earlier noted, the system control circuit 7 permits the memory 20 to store therein the information data relating to the audio signal MSG2 as data 2. When the recording of the audio signal MSG2 has ended, at this time, all the data so far stored in the memory 20, that is, the data data 1 data 2 formed of the data 1 relating to the audio signal MSG1 and the data 2 relating to the audio signal MSG2 are read out from the memory 20 and converted to be information data conforming to the recording format by the data generator 22, which is then supplied through the driver 23 to the data recording head 4 and thereby recorded on the data track DT of the tape. Also at that time, after the recording of the information data data 1 data 2 has ended, the tape is rewound up to the start or beginning of the information data end point of the audio signal MSG2 , and the tape recorder is put into a stand by mode to await the recording of a next audio signal MSG3. Figure 3B illustrates the state of the recording format on the tape at this time. From Figure 3B it will be apparent that the information data relating to the audio signal MSG1 and the information data relating to the audio signal MSG2 are recorded on the side of the data track DT corresponding to the end portion of the next audio signal MSG2 as the added data of data 1 data 2 . As described above, the audio signals are sequentially recorded on the audio track AT of the tape as the information unit signals and the information data corresponding to the audio signals are gathered and then recorded on the data track DT at the position corresponding to the end portion of the latest recorded audio signal. Figure 3C illustrates the state of the recording format of the tape at that time. When the recording needs the emergency processing, such recording is carried out as follows. That is, the identification code ID as the priority number that is predetermined by the user terminal apparatus 8 is supplied by operating the ten keys. Then, the tone signal corresponding to the operated key is generated by the tone encoder and then transferred to the tone decoder 33 at the tape recorder deck side. The tone decoder 33 interprets the tone signal transferred thereto and sends the decoded signal to the identifying apparatus 34. The identifying apparatus 34 identifies it as the recording which needs the emergency processing and supplies the output therefrom to the terminal T11 of the system control circuit 7. The system control circuit 7 adds to information data, data indicative that the signal to be recorded at present needs the emergency processing, via the memory 20 and allows a priority indicator lamp corresponding to an indicator lamp 63 of Figure 6, which will be described later included in the display section 21c of the display apparatus 21 to be tuned on and off to display such fact. At the same time, the system control circuit 7 drives the mechanical deck section 29 and the motor 30 through the operation section 28 and thereby the recording is started similarly as described above. When the signal indicative of the end of the recording is detected by the tone decoder 33, in order to stop the recording, the system control circuit 7 supplies the signal through the operation section 28 to the mechanical deck section 29 and the motor 30. Simultaneously, the priority indicator lamp in the display apparatus 21 changes its state from blinking to flashing. In this way, the signals of various contents are recorded on the tape. Also, in the course of the recording, the fact that the data needing the emergency processing are recorded on the tape can be detected by the priority indicator lamp of the display apparatus 21 and through the information data and the memory 20, the place in which the data needing the emergency processing are recorded can be searched for by the display sections 21a and 21b of the display apparatus 21, and thus the beginning of the data on the tape can be found, as will be mentioned later. When a magnetic tape cassette housing therein a tape on which an audio signal and information data have previously been recorded with a predetermined recording format is mounted on the cassette compartment section only in a transcribe mode in which only the playback is possible, as described later and the information data recorded are read out from the tape, if a data reading button corresponding to a button 62 in Figure 6 included in the operation section 28 is depressed and the system control circuit 7 is commanded to read out the data, the system control circuit 7 drives through the operation section 28, the mechanical deck section 29 and the motor 30 so as to fast forward or rewind the tape. Then, the audio track is traced by the audio reproducing head 2, the particular low frequency signal 20 Hz superimposed on the audio signal, which is supplied through the amplifier 13, is detected by the low pass filter 15, and the tape is forwarded to the position at which this particular low frequency signal is not recorded. At that time, the audio and data recording heads 2 and 5 are positioned at the boundary between the audio signal and the information data. Then, when the data track is traced by the data reproducing head 5, the signal reproduced by the reproducing head 5 is derived through the amplifier 24 and the wave reshaper 25. Based on this reproducing signal, the information data are read out and stored in the memory 20 via the system control circuit 7. As shown in Figure 4, in the memory 20, there are stored all the information data relating to the respective audio signals and the information unit signal of every audio signal. Specifically, as all the information data, there are stored a call number indicative of how many times the audio signal as the information unit is recorded and the whole recording time thereof. Whereas, as the data information unit, there are stored the recording time of the corresponding audio signal, the identifying code ID indicative of the kinds of the processing thereof, the CALL No. indicative of the sequential order of the recording, presence or absence of the priority code indicative of the priority degree degree of emergency , the count number of the reel table indicative of the count number and which is used to detect the tape position, etc. Once all the information data are stored in the memory 20, the contents thereof are displayed by the display apparatus 21. Since the information data stored in the memory 20 cannot all be displayed on the display apparatus 21 at the same time, after the storing in the memory 20 has ended, all the information, that is only the whole CALL No., the recording time and the information data except the counted value corresponding to the latest recorded audio signal are displayed by the display apparatus 21. In the display apparatus 21, only the information data corresponding to the latest recorded audio signal can be displayed on the display section 21b as mentioned above. Therefore, when the scroll switch 32 speaking precisely having both and switches is depressed, by the control of the system control circuit 7, the displayed content on the display section 21b of the display apparatus 21 is changed so that other information data stored within the memory 20, namely, the information data corresponding to the preceding audio signal and the information data corresponding to the succeeding audio signal can be seen. Thus, only desired information data corresponding to each audio signal can be known. In the scroll mode, the display section 21b of the display apparatus 21 is made to blink. When the position or beginning of the audio signal corresponding to the information data selectively displayed by the above mentioned scroll mode is desired to be found, the search switch 31 is depressed. Then, the system control circuit 7 compares the information data displayed with the current tape position, or compares the counted value of the rotational number of the reel table as the information data relating to the selected audio signal on the memory 20 with the counted value of the rotational number of the reel table at the current position by the counter 27. When the former is positioned after the latter, in other words when the counted value stored on the memory 20 is larger than the counted value of the counter 27, the system control circuit 7 controls through the operation section 28 the mechanical deck section 29 and the motor 30 so as to fast forward the tape, while when the former is positioned prior to the latter, or when the counted value stored on the memory 20 is smaller than the counted value by the counter 27, the system control circuit 7 permits the operation section 28 to control the mechanical deck section 29 and the motor 30 so as to rewind the tape. Thus, the head is positioned at the beginning of the audio signal corresponding to the displayed information data. At that time, the display on the display section 21b of the display apparatus 21 is changed from the blinking state to the steady state, indicating that the beginning of the audio signal has finished. Thus, the beginning of the desired audio signal can be detected in a short time. Thereafter, by depressing the playback PLAY button on the operation section 28, the system control circuit 7 operates the mechanical deck section 29, the motor 30, and so on, so that the portion of the audio signal, the beginning of which is detected, can be heard. When in the dictating mode, the tape cassette is mounted on the cassette compartment portion not shown , the tape detecting switch 35 is operated and thence the signal from the switch 35 is supplied to the system control circuit 7. Then, the system control circuit 7 permits the operation section 28 to operate the mechanical deck section 29 and the motor 30 so as to rewind the tape of the tape cassette for a predetermined period of time. During this period, the audio signal is read out from the tape by the audio reproducing head 2. When the audio signal is recorded on the tape, the repoduced signal is amplified by the amplifier 13 and then fed through the low pass filters 15 and 16 to the comparator 19 in which it is compared with the reference value Vref, thus to detect whether the signal is recorded on the tape or not. If the signals supplied from the low pass filters 15 and 16 are larger than the reference value Vref, it is judged that the signal was already recorded on the tape, and the output from the comparator 19 is supplied to the system control circuit 7. Then, the system control circuit 7 permits the operation section 28 to control the mechanical deck section 29 and the motor 30 so as to stop the tape driving operation. At the same time, an eject drive section included in the operation section 28 is operated, ejecting the tape cassette from the tape cassette compartment portion. When the head reaches the beginning or start end of the tape after less than a predetermined time from beginning to rewind, the tape is fast forwarded from the start end of the tape for a predetermined time and then the tape is rewound, thereby to detect the signal. Figure 5 is a circuit diagram showing an example in which the present invention is applied to a double deck type magnetic recording and or reproducing apparatus. In this case, the system control circuit 7, the memory 20, the display apparatus 21, the operation section 28 and the reproducing system, etc., used in the circuit of Figure 2 are used commonly so that the reproducing systems not shown of a deck 41 as a first deck and a deck 42 as a second deck are used in common, and only the recording systems thereof are independent. Referring to Figure 5, there are provided a plurality of user terminal apparatuses 8A, 8B, 8C, ... From Figure 5, it will be seen that the audio signals from the microphones of these user terminal apparatuses 8A, 8B, 8C, ... are supplied to the first and second decks 41 and 42 and the signals corresponding to the ten keys of the respective user terminal apparatuses 8A, 8B, 8C, ... are all fed to the system control circuit 7. The memory 20 has a capacity capable of storing the data contents corresponding to the first and second decks 41 and 42. Since the display apparatus 21 cannot display these data thereon simultaneously, a switch 43 is provided between the memory 20 and the display apparatus 21. When the movable contact of the switch 43 is connected to a fixed contact a, the content or data except the counted value corresponding to the first deck 41 and shown in Figure 45 is displayed by the display apparatus 21, while when the movable contact of the switch 43 is connected to a fixed contact b, the content or data except the counted value corresponding to the second deck 42 and shown in Figure 4 is displayed by the display apparatus 21. Referring to Figure 5, there is further provided a switch 44 between the system control circuit 7 and the operation section 28. When the movable contact of the switch 44 is connected to a fixed contact a, the operation section 28 serves the first deck 41, while the movable contact of the switch 44 is connected to a fixed contact b, the operation section 28 serves the second deck 42. The first and second decks 41 and 42 can be placed both in the recording mode and, also, one can be placed in the recording mode, while the other can be placed in the reproducing mode Figure 6 schematically illustrates an outline of the double deck type magnetic recording and or reproducing apparatus comprising a body 50, a tape cassette compartment portion 51 for the first deck 41 or deck 1, and a tape cassette compartment portion 52 for the second deck 42 or deck 2. When a transcribe mode button 53 is depressed, the deck 1 only is placed into the playback possible state, while when a transcribe mode button 54 is depressed, the second deck 2 only is placed into the playback possible state. When the transcribe mode button 53 is depressed, an indicator lamp 55 is lit, while when the transcribe mode button 54 is depressed, an indicator lamp 56 is lit. If neither of the transcribe mode buttons 53 and 54 are depressed, both of the deck 1 and deck 2 are placed in the recording dictating possible state. A display section 57 corresponds to the display section 21a of the display apparatus 21, while reference numeral 58 designates a display section 21b, which corresponds to the display section 21b of the display apparatus 21. When the display sections 57 and 58 are both in the display state corresponding to the deck 1, an indicator lamp 59 is lit, while when the display sections 57 and 58 are both in the display state corresponding to the deck 2, an indicator lamp 60 is lit. A button 61 changes the display of the content on the display sections 57 and 58 between the deck 1 and the deck 2. Further, a button 62 is used to read out the data when the information data is written in the memory 20. A priority indicator lamp 63 is made to blink while the content or data needing emergency processing is being recorded, while it is merely lit when the information data or the memory 20 contains the content or data which needs the emergency processing. An indicator lamp 64 is lit when no tape cassette is mounted on either of the cassette compartment sections 51 and 52 is turned off when a cassette is mounted on either of the cassette compartment sections 51 and 52 is made to blink when the tape approaches the end thereof and is turned on when the tape reaches its end. An indicator lamp 65 is lit when the deck 1 or the deck 2 is placed in the recording mode. An indicator lamp 66 is lit when at least one call message is contained in the tape housed in the tape cassette. A switch 67 corresponds to the scroll switch 32 of Figure 2, and has and buttons in order that the contents before and after the display content can be read out. A switch 68 corresponds to the search button 31 shown in Figure 2. Reference numeral 69 denotes a button used for calling up user terminal apparatuses. In this case, there are eight user terminal apparatuses. In this case, eight indicator lamps 70 are provided, which are respectively lit when a call is made from the corresponding user terminal apparatus. Reference numeral 71 designates buttons which are used to turn the lit indicator lamp 70 off. A fast forward button 76, a playback button 73, a stop button 74, a rewind button 75, and an eject button 76 are mounted on the front panel of the double deck type magnetic recording and or reproducing apparatus. A slidable knob 77 adjusts the tape transport speed, a slidable knob 78 controls the rewinding time in relation to a foot control unit not shown , a slidable knob 79 adjusts the tone quality, and a slidable knob 80 adjusts the sound level upon playback. Further, reference numeral 81 designates a power supply cord, while reference numeral 82 designates a connection cord used to connect the main body of this magnetic recording and or reproducing apparatus to the user terminal apparatus 8. Figure 7 schematically illustrates an outline of the user terminal apparatus comprising a base table 83, a handset 84, a jack 85 to which a telephone coupler not shown is to be connected, an indicator lamp 86 which is lit when the telephone coupler is connected to the jack 85, an indicator lamp 87 which is turned on and off when a message is sent to the user terminal apparatus from the main body of the magnetic recording and or reproducing apparatus, and a button 88 which is used to instruct the main body to select which of the deck 1 and deck 2 should be used. For example, when the button 88 is depressed, the display indicates that the deck 1 of the main body is used, whereas if the button 88 is released from being depressed, the deck 2 of the main body is selected and an indicator lamp 90 is lit to indicate that the deck 2 is now being used. Reference numeral 91 generally designates ten keys. In the ten keys 91, a button 1 STOP stops the recording, a button 2 DICT starts the recording, a button 3 LSNT plays back the recorded data or content, a button 4 SEC records a particular low frequency signal, for example, a signal having the frequency of 750 Hz to indicate the fact that a document is changed, a fast forward button 5 FF fast forwards the tape up to the end of the recorded content, a button 6 LTR records the low frequency signal 20 Hz on the data track to insert the identification code ID and again to record the same, a button 7 VOR is a voice operated recording button which is used in such a case that the magnetic recording and or reproducing apparatus is automatically stopped if there exists no audio signal for a predetermined period of time, for example, three seconds, and that if the audio signal is supplied thereto, the apparatus is automatically set in the recording mode, a button 8 is a vacant button, a button 9 REW is used to rewind the recorded content to the beginning thereof, buttons and 0 are depressed to make an outgoing message call towards the main body from the user terminal apparatus, and a button µ is used to clear the incoming message call from the main body. Reference numeral 92 designates a connection cord.