# FLUX CONTROL FOR INDUCTION MOTOR DRIVE USING LOAD COMMUTATED INVERTER CIRCUIT

## Claims
Einrichtung zum Steuern des Betriebs eines Wechselstrom Induktionsmotors 24 , der Wicklungen hat, die mit elektrischer Erregung von einer mehrphasigen Wechselstrom Leistungsquelle versorgt werden, mit

## Description
The present invention is related to that described in copending European patent application 86100801.9 which was filed on even date herewith, is assigned to the assignee of the present invention and is specifically incorporated hereinto by reference. The present invention relates generally to the control of electric motors and, more particularly, to a scheme for controlling an alternating current AC induction motor using a load commutated inverter circuit LCI for supplying electrical power to the motor. It is common, in the discipline of motor drives, to employ power converter systems to furnish electrical power from a source to the motor, see e.g. 8078 Proceedings of the I.E.E.E. Vol. 70 1982 Febr., No 2, pp. 116 135. These power converters are of various types but, in the higher voltage and power ranges, are often comprised of thyristors in a bridge arrangement. The thyristors of the bridge are selectively gated in what is commonly known as phase control to vary or control the electrical power supplied to the motor. In adjustable speed AC motor drives, it is common . to to use two such converters, the first of which serves to convert AC power from a source e.g., power lines to direct current DC power. The second converter which is connected to the first by way of a DC link circuit serves to convert the DC power supplied thereto into variable frequency AC power which is supplied to the motor. The first source side converter is controlled to Vary the amount of current which is furnished to the motor while the second load side converter commonly called an inverter is used to vary the frequency of the power that is supplied to the motor. The source side converter for a typical three phase system is a six thyristor bridge which is phase controlled to vary the output current or voltage. The load side converter, or inverter, is usually one of two general types, a load commutated inverter or a forced commutated inverter. By commutated, it is meant rendering the thyristors of the bridge non conductive. A forced commutated inverter, the so called McMurray inverter, is disclosed in US A 4,449,087 Lippitt et al. . A terminal voltage limit regulator for a load commutated inverter which provides a function useful for the present system is disclosed in US A 4,446,414 Tupper . Frequency converter circuits useful for the present system are disclosed in US A 4,454,470 Boettner et al. and US A 4,609,990 Sember et al. As is generally known in the art, to render a thyristor non conductive, the current within the thyristor must be reduced to essentially zero value as by placing a reverse voltage across the thyristor. In a source side converter, this is normally not a problem since the converter acts basically as a rectifier and the gating on of one thyristor will effect a commutation of the then conducting thyristor since the AC source e.g., power lines to which the converter is connected will inherently develop the reverse voltage. In the load side converter which is supplied with DC power, however, it is commonly known that some form of reactive volt amperes VARs must be present in order to effect commutation. In the load commutated inverter, these VARs are derived from the load. In the force commutated inverter there is some means such as a capacitor which is appropriately charged and at the proper time the charge on that capacitor is used to commutate the inverter. In the discipline of variable speed AC motor drives, at lower voltages e.g., below 1000 volts the preferred drive has used a cage type induction motor which is supplied by a forced commutated inverter such as a square wave inverter, a pulse width modulated inverter or a current source inverter. The induction motor is preferred because of its simplicity and its more rugged nature. These advantages of the induction motor have overcome the disadvantages of the necessary commutation circuitry of a forced commutated inverter. This technology, however, has been generally limited to inverters in which a single main or power thyristor switching device is provided in each inverter leg because of the technical difficulties associated with parallel or series connected thyristors required for higher powered ratings. For example, it is extremely difficult to get precise simultaneous forced commutation of multiple thyristors included in series in one leg of a bridge where the voltage requirements exceed those of a single thyristor. At higher voltages e.g. above 1000 volts , therefore, it has been the practice to use a load commutated inverter to supply a synchronous motor. A load commutated inverter system having both source side and load side converters of the type mentioned above is normally regarded as suited to pass real current from one AC source to another or a load while drawing a lagging reactive current from both its source and load sides. Thus, as a motor drive, it is usually used to drive a synchronous motor and not an induction motor. This is because a synchronous motor, which has its rotor excited by a DC current, is able to serve as a source of lagging reactive current to the load side of the LCI and thus effect commutation. The LCI is not usually regarded as a suitable source for driving an induction motor because the motor, like the LCI, requires a source of lagging reactive current at its terminals. Thus, while the load commutated inverter or LCI is less expensive and capable of handling higher voltages, it has not been deemed suitable for use with the simpler and less expensive induction motor. It is, therefore, an object of the present invention to provide an AC induction motor drive using a load commutated inverter circuit The foregoing and other objects are achieved in accordance with the present invention by providing a system for controlling the operation of an alternating current induction motor having windings furnished with electrical excitation from a polyphase alternating current power source comprising a controllable load commutated inverter circuit connected between the power source and said induction motor, said load commutated inverter circuit having an output furnishing electrical power and exciting current in a demagnetizing polarity to said motor a capacitor circuit connected to the motor windings and to the output of said load commutated invert circuit for furnishing leading exciting current to said motor and said load commutated inverter circuit means to generate a motor operation command signal. The system further comprises means to develop an exciting current correction signal representing a change in motor exciting current required for a desired level of motor operation means responsive to said exciting current correction signal to generate a spillover signal when said exciting current correction signal exceeds a predetermined boundary and control means responsive to said spillover signal and at least one of said motor operation command signal and said exciting current correction signal for controlling the output of said load commutated inverter circuit. While the present invention is described in particularity in the claims annexed to and forming a part of this specification, a better understanding of the invention can be had by reference to the following description taken into conjunction with the accompanying drawing in which Fig. 1 is a schematic diagram depicting a preferred embodiment of the power circuitry for supplying electrical power to an induction motor in accordance with the present invention Fig. 2 is a graphical representation of a typical LCI system requirement for VARs as can be furnished by the system of the present invention Figs. 3, 4 and 5 are vector diagrams helpful to the understanding of the present invention Figs. 6 through 10 are schematic diagrams of exemplary variable or controllable VAR generators which can find application in the system of the present invention Fig. ll is a schematic diagram illustrating the present invention in its total basic control aspects Fig. l2 is a schematic diagram illustrating a preferred embodiment of the control of the variable VAR generator of a system of the present invention Figs. 13 and 14 are detailed schematic diagrams illustrating possible implementations of a portion of the system of Fig. 12 shown therein in block form Figs. l5A, l5B, l5C, l6A, l6B, l8 and l9 are vector diagrams helpful in the understanding to the showings of Fig. 17 Fig. 17 is a major block diagram illustrating a further preferred embodiment of the present invention Fig. 20 is a major block diagram illustrating a further preferred embodiment of the present invention and Fig. 21 is a major block diagram illustrating a digital implementation of the present invention. In the ensuing description and on the several figures, insofar as is practical, like characters will be used to designate like components throughout. Reference is now made to Fig. 1 which shows the power circuitry of the induction motor drive of the present invention in accordance with a preferred general embodiment. A power source three phase indicated by terminals L₁, L₂ and L₃ is connected to a load commutated inverter circuit shown generally at 10. The load commutated inverter circuit LCI includes a source side converter 11 which is connected by way of a DC link 14 including inductor 16 to supply direct current I Connected to lines 18, 20 and 22 is a capacitor circuit 32 Comprised of three capacitors 34, 36 and 38 connected in a wye configuration. These capacitors could also be connected in delta configuration in accordance with good engineering practices. Although the capacitors are shown to be of a fixed value, it is contemplated that switched capacitor circuits could be employed with various capacitors being switched into and out of the circuit as a function of a motor operating parameter e.g., speed. The primary function of the capacitor circuit is to provide a leading reactive current to excite the induction motor and to provide a portion of the necessary VARs and for effecting commutation of the LCI 10. Also connected across the windings of the motor is a VAR generator 40. The primary function of the VAR, generator is to maintain the flux level of the motor by providing additional reactive current which either adds to or subtracts from that supplied to the capacitor circuit and the LCI 10. As, illustrated in Fig. 1, VAR generator 40 includes a circuits 39 which has the actual connections to lines 18, 20 and 22. Possible implementation of circuit 39 will be discussed with respect to Figs. 6 through 10. Also shown in dash line depiction is an AC to DC power source 42 which is connected to terminals L Reference is now made to Fig. 2 which depicts in graphical form the excitation system control range for proper motor excitation and commutation VARs for a typical load in which the motor torque requirement varies approximately as the square of motor speed e.g., a fan. The showings of Fig. 2 are on a per unit basis with per unit speed as the abscissa and per unit VARs as the ordinate. The particular depiction here, which is considered as typical and illustrative, is for a one per unit capacitor circuit and a 0.25 per unit lead lag VAR controller that is, the VAR generator 40 in Fig. 1 is capable of providing 0.25 per unit VARs at rated voltage and frequency either in a leading or lagging fashion. The dashed line 50 of Fig. 2 illustrates the total VAR demand of the system in the speed range from 0.2 per unit to 1 per unit. The dot dash line 52 illustrates the VARs which can be supplied to the system by the capacitor circuit 32 of Fig. 1. It is seen that with the capacitors alone, the only time that the system has the correct VARs is at approximately 0.7 per unit speed. The solid lines represent the limits of available VARs of the capacitor and VAR generator combined. It is further seen from Fig. 2 that if the VAR generator is capable of providing only leading VARs, the system including capacitor circuit as illustrated is capable of operating in the range of 0.2 to 0.7 per unit speed. Conversely, if only lagging VARs were available, to complement the capacitor circuit 32, then operation in the per unit speed range of 0.7 to 1.0 is permitted. In the most preferred embodiment, therefore, the VAR generator is capable of providing both leading and lagging VARs so that the system demand line is inside the two solid lines from 0.33 to 1.0 speed. Thus, operation of the motor over this wider speed range is possible. The vector diagrams of Figs. 3, 4 and 5 taken in conjunction with Fig. 2 provide a better understanding of the operational requirements of the system of the present invention. As earlier stated, load commutated inverters or LCIs principally pass real current from the AC source to the load. Since the induction motor and the load commutated inverter circuit both require a source of lagging reactive current at their terminals, the LCI is not normally considered as a suitable drive for an induction motor. To better understand the relationship of the various currents at the motor terminals of the basic power circuit as illustrated in Fig. 1, reference is made to Fig. 3. In this diagram, the reference vector is motor air gap voltage which is represented as the vertical vector V A synchronous motor can operate with current at any vector position on this diagram. The induction motor, however, gets its excitation solely from the stator terminals and it must, therefore, be excited by a current which has a component horizontally to the left the direction which makes flux . Thus, the allowed sector for an induction motor operating in motoring and generating is most of the left half of the vector diagram as noted and labeled Range of Induction Motor Operation . A load commutated inverter circuit operates by gating thyristors or other controlled switching devices at a time which is delayed a controllable amount with respect to the gating time which causes full rectifying operation the gating time that causes the thyristors to conduct as diodes . That gating time is normally defined as the zero delay reference time and the delay from that time expressed in electrical degrees is the angle called alpha α . The current provided by the LCI to the motor is at a phase position determined by the gating delay α on the load side of the LCI. This angle α in the vector diagram of Fig. 2 is measured clockwise from the vertical reference V As was earlier indicated and as will become more apparent as this description proceeds, the total system of the present invention is regarded as having three sources of current. The first of these sources I The current I Fig. 4 shows how the currents of three sources can be combined to satisfy the requirements of an induction motor. The motor current ¹ is shown at the vector position representing motoring operation. The LCI current IL is shown as having a real component vertical equal to that of In and at a vector position as close to that of the motor current as it can get within the allowed region of LCI current . Capacitor circuit current IC is in its allowed vector position and has magnitude determined by the voltage and frequency of the motor and determined by the relationship Fig. 5 shows the vector position for the various currents for the situation in which the capacitor circuit is too large. In this situation, the control for the VAR generator 40 has caused it to reverse its phase position and adjust its amplitude so that the sum of the three currents just provides the required reactive current as before. Since the magnitude of the capacitor current is determined by expression 1 above, a function of the motor voltage and the motor speed, there is no way to directly control the magnitude of capacitor current. Thus the variable voltage VAR generator current will have to be adjusted at each operating point to make up the error in reactive current. The optimum selection for the capacitor circuit will, therefore, be that which minimizes the total requirements of the VAR controller. Reference is now made to Figs. 6 through 10 which show several possible schemes for providing circuit 39 the variable VAR controller 40. In each case, the VAR controller illustrated is shown connected to lines 18, 20 and 22 for orientation purposes. It is to be understood that in each case the various switching or gating elements of the various controllers will be under the control of suitable control means, as will be explained, so that the amount of VARs provided in accordance with the capabilities of the several circuits may be varied. Fig. 6 illustrates a first possibility for the VAR generator circuit 39. That shown is what is commonly known as a line commutated converter comprised of six thyristors 60 thru 65 in a three phase, three leg arrangement. The connection to the motor by lines 18, 20 and 22 is made to the thyristor s junction within each of the three legs i.e., between thyristors 60 61, 62 63 and 64 65. What is normally referred to as the DC conductors of the converter bridge are connected to a terminating impedance, inductor 66. The configuration of Fig. 6 can supply only lagging VARs and the amount of VARs it will supply is a function of the gating of the thyristors. Fig. 7 shows as a possible VAR generator a switched capacitor circuit. It will be recognized that this generator can provide only leading VARs. As shown, the three lines 18, 20 and 22 are connected to a delta circuit arrangement, each leg of which includes, for example, a capacitor 70 connected in series arrangement with an anti parallel scheme of gating elements such as thyristors 72 and 73. By the selective gating or rendering conductive of the various thyristors of legs of the delta arrangement, the bridge or the generator of Fig. 7 is capable of supplying variable leading VARs to the system. Figs. 8, 9 and 10 depict various types of forced commutation converters which are capable of supplying both leading and lagging VARs. Such converters are normally considered more desirable for use in the present invention where motor operation over an extended range is desired. Fig. 8 illustrates what is commonly referred to as a controlled current or autosequentially commutated inverter. Each of the three legs of this three phase version is comprised of a series arrangement of, for example, a first thyristor 74, a first diode 75, a second diode 76 and a second thyristor 77, all poled to conduct in the same direction. Connected between the thyristors of adjacent legs are commutating capacitors, for example, capacitors 78 and 79. This bridge arrangement, similarly to that shown in Fig. 3, is terminated in an inductive reactance 80. Fig. 8 illustrates a further feature which is included only for purposes of completeness. The VAR generator of this configuration is shown connnected to the lines 18, 20 and 22 by means of a suitable isolation transformer 82 which has a wye connected primary 84 and delta connected secondary 86. This is included merely to recognize that in certain instances, isolation and or voltage level adjustment may be required in accordance with good design practices and it is intended to represent one alternative form of connection which is applicable to all of the various embodiments. Fig. 9 illustrates a second type of forced commutation inverter sometimes called the McMurray inverter. This inverter, also shown in its three phase version is comprised of three identical sections and only that directly associated with line 18 will be described. It is seen that the inverter leg includes, between the DC buses, a first thyristor 86 in series connection with a second thyristor 88. These two thyristors are normally called the power thyristors. Connected, respectively, in parallel with the thyristors 86 and 88 and poled oppositely thereto, are a pair of diodes 90 and 92. Two additional thyristors, 94 and 96, normally referred to as the commutating thyristors, are connected between the DC buses while a capacitor 98 and inductor 100 are series connected between the cathode of thyristor 94 and the anode and cathode, respectively, of the diode 90 and the thyristor 86. By the proper gating of the several thyristors, capacitor 98 is appropriately charged and discharged to provide commutation of the leg thyristors in a manner well known and explained in the aforementioned patent. This forced commutation inverter is terminated on its DC terminals in a capacitor 102. Fig. 10 shows still another version of forced commutation type inverter. This inverter is commonly referred to as a gate turnoff inverter and may be operated, for example, in a pulse width modulated or square wave mode. A symmetrical three phase version is again depicted which includes in one leg a first gate turnoff switch 110 which has connected in an anti parallel fashion therewith a diode 112. In a similar fashion, the negative portion of the leg includes a gate turnoff switch 114 having connected in anti parallel therewith a diode 116. This inverter is shown terminated on its DC terminals in a capacitor 120. In the description which follows, signal designations followed by an denote command signals specifying a desired or commanded value to be achieved while a designation without the denotes a measured or calculated value. For example, the designation I Reference is now made to Fig. 11 which shows the system of the present invention in a fundamental form. Included is the power portion as illustrated in Fig. 1 along with an associated control. As such, the source side converter 11 is connected to a source of three phase AC electrical power represented by the terminals L₁, L₂, and L₃. Further, the source side converter 11 is connected to the load side converter 12 by means of a DC link 14 including an inductor 16. Induction motor 24 is connected to the load side converter 12 by means of the conductors 18, 20 and 22. Capacitor circuit 32 comprised of capacitors 34, 36 and 38 is connected across the windings of the motor 24 through lines 18, 20 and 22. VAR generator 40 is again shown connected in parallel with the capacitor circuit 32 across the motor windings. Three feedback control paths, responsive to a motor operation command signal, are associated with the power circuitry illustrated and serve to control, respectively, the source side converter 11, the load side inverter 12 and the VAR generator 40. In this regard, there is first provided a feedback signal which, in accordance with a preferred embodiment in the present invention, is proportional to the actual speed of the motor. This signal could be representative of the stator frequency, ω, as will be hereinafter described, but as here illustrated is a signal N derived from a tachometer 130, shown as being connected to the motor 24 by dashed line 132. Tachometer 130 provides an output signal N on line 134 proportional to the actual speed of the motor. This speed signal N is summed in a summing junction 136 with a signal N The output of circuit 139 is the motor operation command signal which is here designated T The third feedback path is the one with which the present invention is primarily concerned. This path controls the operation of the VAR generator 40 in response to a flux command signal Ψ representative of the desired level of motor flux. In Fig. 11, two methods Of producing the Ψ signal, at circuit node 157 associated with a switch 158, are shown. The first of these is to supply a reference signal, Ψ reference, of predetermined value to an input terminal 159 such that, when the switch 158 is in its lower position, this signal appears at node 157 and serves as the Ψ signal. The second method takes as an input the T The difference between the Ψ and Ψ signals, taken from junction 160, is applied to a block 164 which which may have essentially the same type transfer function as speed regulator 139. This function may be expressed as The output of junction 166 is I It should be noted at this point that a consistent inclusion for the present invention is the control of the VAR generation as a function of the motor flux. As such, although not shown specifically in the drawing, an operational control can be made by connecting the output of the flux regulator directly to the regulator and firing control 180 with the omission of the feedback signals I From the foregoing expression, it is seen that the positive feedback is proportional to the speed squared. As such, at low speeds the effect of this loop will not be important and in the absence of control, the motor will have no excitation. At a specific speed, typically in the range of 0.5 per unit, the overall loop gain will reach unity. This is the speed for self excitation of the motor by the capacitor circuit. At higher speeds, the positive feedback will cause the motor to be excited to saturation level. At lower speeds the flux would collapse in the absence of the VAR generator. The I Reference is now made to Fig. 12 which illustrates a further embodiment of the present invention in an alternative form. Fig. 12 is a system of the same general type as depicted in Fig. 11. As such Fig. 12 duplicates those parts of Fig. 11 which are common only to the extent of providing proper orientation. It is to be expressly understood that the control of the load commutated inverter, that is, the converters 11 and 12 may be in the same manner as was earlier described. The difference in Fig. 12 over Fig. 11 lies in the control of the VAR generator 40. Referencing specifically now Fig. 12, shown are the load side converter 12, the DC link inductor 16, lines 18, 20, and 22, the induction motor 24, and capacitor circuit 32. VAR generator, 40 preferably of the forced commutation type, again supplies a variable exciting current I The output of summing junction 200 which represents the difference between the desired level of motor excitation and the actual level of motor excitation is applied to a simple integrating function block 212 the output of which is a signal I Since the I In an embodiment previously noted but not shown, the output of the flux loop was regarded as the current command for the VAR generator. Flux, however, is not directly proportional to the exciting current of the VAR generator but is proportional to the total exciting current of the motor with the proportionality determined by magnetic saturation . Thus, when the output of the flux regulator is regarded as a command I Reference is now made to Fig. 13 which shows one possible implementation of the I Referencing now the phase component 220, it is seen that a signal proportional to the current in the first phase, phase 1, is provided from a sensor 206 to a suitable vector multiplier 226. Voltage signals, via lines 204 from phase 2 and phase 3 of the motor 24, are furnished to a differential amplifier 228. The output of amplifier 228 is equal to the phase to phase voltage V Fig. 14 illustrates an I With reference now to Fig. 14, it is seen that a signal, I The two multipliers 260 and 262 have as their second input flux signals designated respectively Ψ The outputs of three summing junctions 300, 302 and 304 are representative of the reconstructed air gap voltages of the motor and are designated respectively V The second input to the divider 316 is a signal proportional to the absolute magnitude of the motor flux, Ψ . This signal is derived, in Fig. 14, by first supplying the Ψ The description thus far is to a motor drive and control in which the motor flux level is described as beings inherently unstable such that, in the absence of an active control, the flux will go either to saturation or to zero. Control of that flux has been by controlling the current output of the VAR generator and thus it is apparent that if the current command by the system ever exceeded the capability of that generator in either direction, the flux would go to its limit value and the drive would have to be shut down. For example, if the VAR generator is aiding the capacitor to support the flux and the motor requires more excitation than is available from the sum of the capacitor and the VAR generator currents, then the flux will begin to decrease. This decrease will reduce the available capacitor current due to the motor voltage decrease and will further cause an increase in the current from the load commutated inverter circuit to maintain torque which will further reduce the available excitation current. This assures the total collapse of the flux. A further runaway condition occurs if the VAR generator reaches its current limit capability when it is operating in the mode of an inductor and hence cancelling available capacitor current which is in excess of the extant needs for exciting current. In this situation when the VAR generator can no longer increase its current, a slight increase in flux will cause an increase in the capacitor current, thus, increasing excitation. The higher flux will also cause the load commutated inverter circuit current to decrease to provide the same torque further increasing the available exciting current. The flux will thus increase regeneratively until motor saturation can consume all of the exciting current. If the motor speed is near rated, the saturation level of the flux is likely to produce a motor voltage higher than the inverters can withstand and it will be necessary to shut the drive down in order to avoid damage. One way of alleviating the above problems is to make the VAR generator of sufficient capacity so that under no circumstance can the current limit be reached, even on transients. While possible, this is an obviously uneconomical solution. The approach which will now be described is to pass the control of the motor excitation to the load commutated inverter circuit when the VAR generator runs out of range. In this regard, in the ensuing discussion, it will be assumed that the VAR generator used is of any type which can make both leading and lagging VARs. In this implementation, if the VAR generator is at its limit in the inductive mode of operation, the LCI is caused to move its load side angle toward α 90 and to increase its current level in a coordinated manner which produces a controlled increase of the demagnetizing reactive current and no change in the torque. This system is illustrated in Figs. 15A, 15B and 15C. These figures show vector diagrams of motor currents using conventions and terminology similar to those used with respect to Figs. 3, 4 and 5. Fig. 15A illustrates the case where the VAR generator output current, I Fig. 15B illustrates the effect of a small increase in speed with no change in torque. The capacitor current I Fig. 15C shows the improvement of the presently being described embodiment, the implementation of which will be described with respect to Fig. 17. In Fig. 15C it is seen that the LCI load side converter angle is changed by a value α and the LCI current I The operation of the system in this instance, that is in the inductive limit case, is so satisfactory that it is possible and sometimes desirable to use this as a normal mode of motor system operation. That is, if the capacitor current is even slightly in excess of the net amount of excitation current needed, the VAR generator can be turned off or omitted and the drive operated on the load commutated inverter circuit alone. The situation in which the VAR generator is operating in capacitive current limit is illustrated by Figs. 16A, 16B and 16C. In Fig. 16A, the available capacitor current is small and the VAR generator has increased its current in the capacitance sense until its current limit is reached. Once again in this situation the system is stable since the exciting current demands of the system are met. Fig. 16B shows the effect of a slight decrease in the speed with no change in desired motor torque. Here the capacitor current I Fig. 16C shows the effect of the present improvement. In this situation, the LCI current is decreased until the sum of the available capacitor current and the VAR generator current satisfies the motor excitation needs. No change is commanded in the LCI angle because the angle is normally already commanded to be of value which produces the least possible reactive current in the demagnetizing direction. The torque provided is decreased by the amount shown Figs. 15A 15C and 16A 16C are believed to clearly demonstrate the desired mode of operation of this embodiment of the invention. An implementation to achieve these desired results is shown in Fig. 17. Fig. 17 is in the nature of the system as shown in Fig. 12 which modifies Fig. 11 with certain exceptions. In Fig. 17, the output of the I Function block 400 provides a linear amplification function, limited in both directions, and the output of that block is the I Limit circuit 408 has a feature which makes it immediately responsive to small signals from gain block 406. When the least signal appears at the output of the gain block 406, the clamp or limit of block 408 is instantaneously lowered to the existing torque command signal T . Thus, any further output from the block 406 will reduce signal I It should be noted at this point that the current reference block 140 and the angle reference block 146 as shown in Fig. 17 differ slightly from similar function blocks 140 and 46 shown in Fig. 11. In Fig. 11, the current reference, for example, had only one lower limit level whereas current reference 140 of Fig. 17 is seen to have a variable lower limit level. In a similar manner, the angle reference 146 as shown in Fig. 11 included only a single slope with limits while the angle reference 146 of Fig. 17 has multiple slopes. These changes are necessary to effect the appropriate action in accordance with the inductive limit. This is a function similar to that described in the above mentioned Tupper patent. With respect now to the inductive limit feature, if the I To properly understand the effect of the output of block 410 on blocks 140 and 146 , it is necessary to first explain the normal operation of these latter two blocks. In normal operation, there is no spillover signal from function block 404 and hence no output from gain block 410. This causes the lower limit in the current reference 140 to be at its lowest level and the corresponding angle control of block 146 to have the steepest slope. In this situation the operation is identical to that explained with respect to Figs. 11 and 12 that is, the current reference from 140 provides a current command to the load commutated inverter circuit which is linearly proportioned to the magnitude of the I The reason for this mode of operation is to provide the required torque from the LCI while observing the current lower limit and causing the minimum demagnetizing current. The component of LCI current which is reactive and is in the demagnetizing direction has an amplitude given by the expression When the system reaches the inductive limit as is pictorially described with respect to Figs 15A 15C, and there is an output from the function block 404, it is the function of the gain block 410 to cause the load commutated inverter circuit, the LCI, to draw an increased value of demagnetizing current I The dotted lines which interconnect blocks 140 and 146 illustrate the coordinated action. As indicated the same signal from gain 410 which results in an increase in the minimum current commanded by block 140 will cause the angle commanded by block 146 to be moved towards α 90 . The actions of blocks 140 and 146 is coordinated such that changes in the LCI current magnitude and angle cause the reactive component of the output of the LCI I The gains of blocks 140 and 146 and the nonlinearity of the gain block 410 are selected to give a gain in amperes of magnetizing current I Thus, the embodiment of the invention shown in Fig. 17 is to a method of maintaining control of the induction motor exciting current I It was earlier mentioned, with respect to Figs. 15A C and 16A C, that operation without a VAR controller is possible. Thus, if Fig. 17 were modified by eliminating the VAR controller and its control circuitry i.e., that shown within the dashed line block 215, and the limits on the spillover signals block 400 were set to zero, corresponding to zero capability of a VAR controller, the system would operate in the manner described with respect to Figs. 15C and 16C. Fig. 20 shows another embodiment of the present invention. In the embodiment of Fig. 17, the output of summing junction 200 was the difference between the I The I Referencing now in particular Fig. 20, it is seen that this figure is of the same type as was described with respect to Fig. 17 with the exception of the derivation of the inputs to the summing junction at the output of the flux regulator, 200 in Fig. 20 and the omission of the I From the preceding description it will be recognized that the motor exciting current I The mathematical expression of equation 9 above is correct for the case where the spillover features as shown in the broken line enclosure of Fig. 20 are not active. In this case the exciting current correction is entirely by the action of the VAR generator and thus I In Fig. 20 the I The other input to the summing junction 200 is the I The second input to multiplier 448 is the signal ω which is proportional to the motor stator frequency. This ω signal could be derived from any suitable manner but in the embodiment illustrated, it is shown as being the output of a frequency converter 452 which has as its input one of the motor terminal voltage signals e.g., the voltage on lines 18. This frequency converter could, for example, be that described in the above mentioned Boettner etal and Sember et al patents. The output of the multiplier 448, the product V While the description thus far has all been in the nature of circuitry in analog form, which is the form best able to be understood, it is readily apparent to those skilled in the art that an actual control function of the present invention could also be performed by appropriately programmed computer equipment. This is in keeping with the description in the previously referenced patent 4,449,087 which has been incorporated by reference. In that patent, control of the LCI was indicated as being by computer and, in a similar vein, the several control functions of the various embodiments described can also be performed by computer software. One possible form of such a control is illustrated in Fig. 21 and can be attached and previously referenced appendix which is a implemented by Intel 80286 computers. In Fig. 21 the power circuit is identical to that shown in the several complete illustrations, e.g., Figs. 1, 11, 17 and 20. Firing of the rectifiers of the LCI source side converter is by way of appropriate firing signals which are delivered to that converter on lines 500 from firing circuits 502. Firing circuits 502 are controlled by signals on lines 504 from a suitable data processor 506 for example, an Intel 80286 computer system . Processor 506 receives an input from operator control 138 as well as voltage and current feedback signals V Variable VAR generator 40 is furnished with electrical power, by way of a DC link circuit 41, from an AC to DC converter 42 connected to terminals L₁, L₂ and L₃ by lines 44, 46 and 48. In the present embodiment as presented by the program of the attached appendix, the VAR generator 40 is of the autosequentially commutated inverter type e.g., see Fig. 8. In a manner similar to that described with respect to the LCI, the thyristors of generator 40 are fired by signals delivered over lines 516 from firing circuits 518 controlled via lines 520 by a data processor 522. Processor 524, lines 526, firing circuits 528 and lines 530 comprise a like control for converter 42. Bus 532 provides a communication link between processors 522 and 524 while bus 534 provides a communication link between processors 506, 514 and 524. Processor 522 further receives voltage feedback signals over lines 540 and current feedback signals over lines 542 from the lines 18, 20 and 22 connecting the LCI circuit with the motor 24. The digital implementation depicted by Fig. 21 and defined by the program appendix provides substantially the identical operation as was described earlier with respect to the analog embodiments, particularly that represented by Fig. 20. Thus, it is seen that by the present invention a simple load commutated inverter circuit is capable of supplying power to an induction motor to provide the advantages and ruggedness of an induction motor along with the relative inexpensiveness associated with an LCI type drive.