# REMOVABLE KEY AND METHODS FOR ITS USE

## Claims
Ein langestreckter Schlüssel 36 , der zum entfernbaren Eingriff in einer Aufnahmebohrung 60 eines Schlüsselhalters vorgesehen ist, der gleitend in einem drehbaren Element eines Werkzeugs aufgenommen ist, und zwar mit einer Kugelrastung 64 zur Zurückhaltung des Schlüssels innerhalb des Schlüsselhalters, und der eine Quernut 58 aufweist zur Aufnahme der Kugelrastung des Schlüsselhalters an einer entlang seiner Länge dazwischen liegenden Stelle ein Hauptschaftteil 47 mit einem nicht kreisförmigen Querschnitt, um in der Aufnahmebohrung des Schlüsselhalters eine Indexbewegung zu bewirken, und schließlich mit einem Drehmomentübertragungskopf an einem ersten Ende desselben, dadurch gekennzeichnet, daß das zweite Ende 58, 56 des Schlüssels, welches entgegengesetzt zum ersten Ende liegt, eine Dicke aufweist, die kleiner ist als die Dicke des Hauptschaftteils und eine sich verjüngende Kante, und daß das zweite Ende die erwähnte Quernut aufweist, wodurch der Schlüssel nach Einsetzen in die Aufnahmebohrung operativ ist, um den Schlüsselhalter in eine Position zu gleiten, welche gestattet, daß die Kugel aus der Aufnahmebohrung rastet und den Durchgang des entgegengesetzten Endes an der Kugel vorbei gestattet, und zwar durch Anliegen einer Axialkraft an den Schlüssel.

## Description
This invention relates to a removable key for a wrenching tool, and in particular, to a key and methods for its use in a wrenching tool for attachment of frangible fasteners. Frangible fasteners are used extensively in the aerospace industry. These fasteners employ a threaded nut member which has a threaded collar and a distal wrenching ring separated by a notched section that shears from the collar when the applied torque exceeds a predetermined torsional loading. Often the threaded collar has an upset portion, usually a slightly elliptical shape, to provide a frictional spring lock to prevent the fastener from spinning off in the event that the residual tension on the fastener is lost. These fasteners are applied with wrenching tools which have a center key that is inserted into a broached keyway of the fastener bolt to immobilize the bolt onto which the collar is applied. Typically the key is slidably mounted in the wrenching tool concentric with the driven, outer, socket member. Usually the key is fixed in the tool with a set screw, however, some tools, such as shown in U.S. Patent 3,584,527, permit the key to be inserted from the rear of the tool through a port closed with a removable retainer plate. In U.S. Patent 2,239,072, a tool is illustrated in which the key is retained with a ball detent which has a clamp ring that secures the detenting ball in a groove about the shaft of the key. All of these prior devices have required a disassembly of the tool to remove or change keys. The attachment of keys in the prior tools is cumbersome and causes delays and difficulties in changing the tools between applications of fasteners in interference fits and loose fits, since only in the latter instances is a key necessary. It is often necessary to replace broke and worn keys, and this is a time consuming operation in the prior tools which must be partially disassembled to release the key. A key occasionally jams in a bolt, which immobilizes the tool, and difficulties are usually experienced in attempting to release the key from the tool. Other designs of keys are known from DE B 1161817 and DE A 1628079. The latter document discloses a key having an indexing portion of an end opposite to its torque transmitting head. In accordance with this invention an elongated key, is provided as described in claim 1. Preferred embodiments of the invention are disclosed in the dependent claims. The key has a main shaft portion with a distal, torque transmitting head and, at its opposite end, has a reduced thickness and a non circular cross section which indexes in the receiving keyway of the holder. A transverse groove is provided in the key to seat the detent ball between its reduced thickness end and the main shaft portion. Preferably, the key has stop means such as a shoulder which limits its axial displacement in said receiving keyway when the detent ball is seated in the transverse groove of the key. The reduced thickness end of the key can be placed in the holder and an axial force applied to insert the key fully and seat the ball in its transverse groove. Alternatively, the holder can be aligned with its cross bore opposite the ball recess in the outer socket member, the spring resistance disengaged, and the key can then be slipped into the holder, and the spring resistance released to lock the key in the holder. Once the key has been inserted in the holder, and the detent ball seated in its transverse groove, it can be extracted only by releasing the detent ball, a procedure which requires that the holder be aligned with the ball opposite the ball recess in the outer socket member and immobilized against the spring bias in this position, preferably with a spacer block which can be a attached to the tool. The invention will be described with reference to the Referring now to The torque control assembly is attached to the tool head assembly 23. This head assembly has a housing 24 which contains a plurality of gears that provide a gear train with the appropriate speed reduction characteristic for the particular tool. At its upper end, the head assembly 23 supports a socket assembly 24. A number of interchangeable socket assemblies can be used to provide a variable extension from the face 28 of the head assembly housing 24. The particular socket assembly illustrated is flush with this plate and receives in its socket 30, the wrenching ring 32 of a frangible fastener 34. The socket assembly is also illustrated with the key 36 of the invention restrained in the receiving keyway of the holder member 38. The workpiece is generally indicated at 40 and comprises two members to be retained by a bolt fastener 42 and a threaded collar fastener 44 of the frangible fastener unit. Referring now to Referring now to Referring now to As the holder member 38 moves to advance the ball 64 past the alignment with the annular groove 74 in the driven member 50, the ball 64 remains in its detenting position, securing the key 36 as this alignment is only a transient condition and spring 66 prevents sufficient time for the detent ball 64 to retract from its illustrated position engaging the groove 58 of key 36. Also, with most uses, there is no retraction force applied to key 36, and no lateral force is transmitted to the ball 64 to cause it to move into the lateral recess, annular groove 74, during its transient condition when it is aligned with the lateral recess. The key 36 can be readily extracted from the socket assembly 26 in the manner shown in One feature of the invention is that the key 36 can be set in the socket assembly in its restrained position within holder 38 by forcefully advancing the key 36 in the manner illustrated in Another preferred structure of the key and the manner of seating the key in the tool of the invention is shown in As the axial force is applied to the tool as shown in As shown in The key has also been illustrated throughout this description as having a hexagonal cross section which indexes with the receiving keyway of the holder. Any non circular cross section can be used for this purpose, and a particular useful cross section to index with a mating keyway in the holder is shown in