# Flame retarded polyester molding composition with improved electrical performance.

## Abstract
Titanium dioxide is disclosed to improve the compara tive tracking index of flame retarded poly 1,4 butylene terephthalate resin molding compositions.

## Claims
EMI13.1 1. A flame retarded poly 1,4 butylene terephthalate resin molding composition having an improved comparative tracking index comprising a poly 1,4 butylene terephthalate resin b a flame retarding amount of halogenated aromatic flame retardant c an effective amount of antimony compound synergist and d an effective amount of titanium dioxide powder to raise the comparative tracking index of said molding composition. 2. The molding composition of Claim 1 wherein said aromatic polyester resin is derived from tetramethylene glycol and terephthalic acid. 3. The molding composition of Claim 1 wherein said halogenated aromatic flame retardant is an aromatic carbonate homopolymer. 4. The molding composition of Claim 1 wherein from about 1.0 to about 10 parts by weight said titanium dioxide powder is added to said molding composition for each 85 parts by weight resin and halogenated aromatic flame retardant. 5. The molding composition of Claim 1 wherein from about 3.5 to about 6.5 parts by weight said titanium dioxide powder is added to said molding composition for each 85 parts by weight resin and halogenated aromatic flame retardant. 6. The molding composition of Claim 1 which additionally comprises a reinforcing amount of glass fiber. 7. The molding composition of Claim 1 which additionally comprises an impact modifying amount of impact modifier. 8. The molding composition of Claim 1 which additionally comprises up to 80 weight parts of another thermoplastic resin per 20 weight parts poly 1, 4 butylene terephthalate resin. 9. A flame retarded poly l,4 butylene terephthalatet resin molding composition having an improved comparative tracking index comprising a poly 1, 4 butylene terephthalate resin b a flame retarding amount of halogenated aromatic flame retardant c an effective amount of antimony compound synergist, d from about 1.0 to about 10 parts by weight titanium dioxide for each 85 parts by weight resin and halogenated aromatic flame retardant and e a reinforcing amount of glass fiber.

## Description
FLAME RETARDED POLYESTER MOLDINGCOMPOSITION WITH IMPROVED ELECTRICAL PERFORMANCEEMI1.1 This invention relates to flame retarded polyester molding compositions having an improvedComparative Tracking Index CTI . More particularly, this invention relates to poly l,4 butylene terephthalate resin molding compositions flame retarded with halogenated compounds and an antimony oxide synergist which additionally contain titanium dioxide to improve, track resistance.EMI1.2 Poly l,4 butylene terephthalate resin is widely used in molding compositions due to its many excellent properties, i.é. strength, solvent resistance, etc.Of growing importance, are applications which require that this resin also have good electrical properties.In such applications, the molded parts may be exposed to severe conditions, such as exposure to electrical discharge or to excessi ve leakage current across its surface. These conditions require not only that the molded pat have flame resistance, but also that the molded part have a high degree of resistance to carbonization i.e. good track resistance and a high degree of resistance to electrical discharge, i.e.good arc resistance. However, it has been a problem that flame retarded poly 1,4 butylene terephthalate resin has very poor track resistance compared to the non flame retarded resin. U.S. Pat. No. 4,000,109, Smith, et al, use a metal borate to improve track resistance in flame retarded poly 1,4 butylene terephthalate resin.U.S. Pat No. 4,421,888, Okada, disclose a flame retarded, tale and glass fiber reinforced, polyester blend having a sustained high track resistance.Obviously, it is desirable to have flame retarded polyester blends having a greater degree of track resistance Therefore, it is an object of the present invention to provide flame retarded thermoplastic poly l,4 butylene terephthalate resin molding compositions, articles molded from which have good track resistance. It is a further object of the present invention to provide flame retarded, glass fiber reinforced, poly l,4 butylene terephthalate resin molding compositions, likewise, articles molded from which have good track resistance.EMI2.1 According to the present invention, there are provided flame retarded poly l,4 butylene terephthalate resin molding compositions with enhanced track resistance comprising a thermoplastic poly l,4 butylene terephthalate resin b a flame retarding amount of halogenated aromatic flame retardant c an effective amount of antimony compound synergist and d a Comparative Track Index improving amount of titanium dioxide powder and optionally, comprising. e up to 80 weight parts of another thermoplastic resin per 20 weight parts poh l,4 butylene terephthalate resin f a reinforcing amount of glass fiber g an impact modifying amount of impact modifier and h stabilizers. The poly 1r4 butylene terephthalate resin used in this invention is one obtained by polymerizing a glycol component at least 70 mol , preferably at least 80 mol , of which consists of tetramethylene glycol and an acid component at least 70 mol , preferably at least 80 mol , of which consists of terephthalic acid, and polyester forming derivatives therefore. The glycol component can contain not more than 30 mol , preferably not more than 20 mol , of another glycol, such as ethylene glycol, trimethylene glycol, 2 methyl 1,3 propane glycol, hexamethylene glycol, decamethylene glycol, cyclohexane dimethanol, or neopentylene glycol. The acid component can contain not more than 30 mol , preferably not more than 20 mol , of another acid such as isophthalic acid, .2,6 naphthalenedicarboxylic acid, 2,7 ,naphthalenedicarboxylic acid, 1,5 naphthalenedicarboxyiic, acid, 4,4 diphenyldicar boxylic acid, 4,4 diphenoxyethandicarboxylic acid, p hydroxy benzoic acid, sebacic acid, adipic acid and polyester forming derivatives thereof. The aromatic polyester resin used in this invention preferably has an intrisic viscosity tn measured in 60 40 by weight phenol tetrachloroethane at 300C. of 0.3 to 1.5 dl g. The amount of flame retardant additive used is not critical to the invention, so long as it is present in a proportion at least sufficient to reduce the flammabilitir of the polyester resin. Those skilled in the art are well aware that the amount will vary with the nature of the resin and with the efficiency of the additive. In general, however, the amount of additive will be from 0.5 to 50 parts by weight per 100 parts of resin. A preferred range will be from about 3 to 50 parts and an especially preferred range will be from about 8 to 45 parts of additive per 100 parts of resin. Synergists, e.g., antimony oxide, will be used at about 2 to lS parts by weight per 100 parts of resin. Any of the conventional halogenated aromatic flame retardants, such as decabromodiphenyl ether can be employed in the composition of the present invention. Preferred flame retardants are aromatic carbonate homopolymers having repeating units of the formula EMI4.1 Wherein R1 and P2 are hydrogen, lower alkyl or phenyl, X1 and X2 are bromo or chloro or mixtures thereof and m and r are from 1 to 4. It is especially preferred that R1 and R2 be methyl and that X1 and X2 be bromo. These materials may be prepared by techniques well known to those skilled in the art.Also preferred are aromatic carbonate copolymers in which from 25 to 75 weight percent of the repeating units comprise chloro or bromo substituted dihydric phenol, glycol or dicarboxylic acid units, e.g., A. D.Wambach, U.S. Pat. No. 3,915,926, A particulary preferred flame retardant herein is an aromatic copolycarbonate of 50 50 mole ratio of bisphenol A and tetrabromobisphenol A prepared like Procedure A of U.S. Pat. No. 3,915,926. Moreover, the flame retardants used herein, such as the aromatic polycarbonate flame retardants, are used with a synergist, particularly inorganic or organic antimony compounds. Such compounds are widely available or can be made in known ways. In preferred embodiments, the type of antimony compound used is not critical, being a choice primarily based on economics.For example, ds inorganic compounds there can be used antimony oxide Sb2O3 antimony phosphate KSb OH 6 NH4SbF6 SbS3 and the like. A wide variety of organic antimony compounds can also be used, such as antimony esters with organic acids cyclic alkyl antimonites aryl antimonic acids and the like. Illustrative of the organic antimony compounds, including inorganic salts of such compounds, are KSb tartratet Sb. caproate Sb OCH2CH3 3 Sb OCH CH CH CH 3t Sb polymethylene glycolate triphenyf antimcinv and the like especially preferred is antimony. oxide. Titanium dioxide suitable for use herein may be obtained in powdered form from a large number of commercial manufacturers. Such powders may be added to the flame retarded molding compositions in an amount effect ive to increase track resistance but not in such amount that other essential propeties of the molding composition are substantially degraded. Preferably, from about 1.0 to about 10 and more preferably from about 3.5 to about 6.5 parts by weight titanium dioxide is present for each 85 parts by weight resin and halogenated aromatic flame retardant.Suitable titanium dioxide powders are known for use in plastics for coloration, conductivity, and resistivity. One skilled in the art can readily recommend suitable powders and size ranges for use herein. Particularly, titanium dioxide powder sold byDupont Company under the trade name TIPURE R101 has been found suitable. Optionally, the compositions of this invention may further contain one or more reinforcing agent in addition to glass fiber. Typical reinforcing agents useful for the invention include but are not limited to, glass fiber, talc, mica or combinations thereof. The filamentous glass to be employed as reinforcement in the present compositions is well known to those skilled in the art and is widely available from a number of manufacturers. For compositions ultimately to be employed for electrical uses, it is preferred to use fibrous glass filaments comprised of lime aluminum borosilicate glass that is relatively soda free. This is known ds E glass. Fowever, other glasses are useful where electrical properties are not so important, e.g., the low soda glass known as C glass. The filaments are made by standard processes, e.g., by steam or air blowing, flame blowing and mechanical pulling. The preferred filaments for plastic reinforcement are made by mechanical pulling. The filament diameters range from about 0.00012 to 0.00075 inch but this is not critical to the present invention. The length of the glass filaments and whether or not they are bundled into fibers and the fibers bundled in turn to yarns, ropes or rovings, or woven into mats and the like are also not critical to the invention. However, in preparing the molding compositions it is convenient to use the filamentous glass in the form of chopped strands of from about 1 8 to about 2 long. In articles molded from the compositions on the other hand, even shorter lengths will be encountered because, during compounding considerable fraqmentation will occur. This is desirable, however, because the best properties are exhibited by thermoplastic injection molded articles in which the filament lengths lie between about 0.000005 and 0.125 1 8 . In general, best properties will be obtained if the filamentous glass reinforcement comprises from about 2.5 to about 90 by weight based on the combined weight of glass and resin, and preferably from about 5 to about 55 by weight. It is especially preferred that the glass comprise from about 20 to about 40 by weight based on the combined weight of glass and resin. Generally, for direct molding use, up to about 60 of glass can be present without causing flow problems. HoWever, it is useful also to prepare the compositions containing substantially greater quantities, e.g., up to 80 90 by weight of glass.These concentrates can be custom blended with resins that are not gaass reinforced to provide any desired glass content of a lower value. The resin component in the molding compositions of the present invention may include in addition to the poly l,4 butylene terephthalate resin up to 80 weight parts of other thermoplastic resins per 20 weight parts of poly 1,4 butylene terephthalate resin. Other suitable thermoplastic resins which may be used include acrylic and methacrylic polymers or copolymers poly ethylene terephthalate epoxy resins polycarbonates polyetherimide phenylene oxide based resins such as polyphenylene oxide and blends of polyphenylene oxide and styrene resins polyaryl ethers polyesters polyethylene polyphenylene sulfides polypropylene polysulfones ethylene polymers such as ethyl vinyl acetates and ordered aromatic copolymers, etc. Furthermore, the composition of the present invention may further comprise an effective amount of any of the known impact modifiers useful for polyesters and polyester blends. ,These may be added to the compositions by themselves or in combination with the aforementioned aromatic polycarbonates. The preferred impact modifiers generally comprise an acrylic or methacrylic grafted polymer of a conjugated diene or an acrylate elastomer, alone or co polymerized with a vinyl aromatic compound.Especially preferred grafted polymers are the core shell polymers of the type available from Rohm BR Haas, for example Acryloid KM653, Acryloid KM330 andAcryloid Rum611. In general these impact modifiers contain units derived from butadiene or isoprene, alone or in combination with a vinyl aromatic compound, or n butyl acrylate, alone or in combination with a vinyl aromatic compound. The aforementioned impact modifiers are believed to be disclosed inFromuth, et al., U.S Pat. No. 4,180,494 Owens, U.S. Pat. No. 3,808,180 Farnham, et al., U.S. Pat. No.4,096,202 and Cohen, et al., U.S. Pat. No. 4,260,693,EMI8.1 Most preferably, the impact modifier will comprise a two stage polymer having either a butadiene or n butyl acrylate based rubbery core and a second stage polymerized from methylmethacrylate alone or in combination with styrene. Also present in the first stage are cross linking monomers and graft linking monomers. Examples of the cross linking monomers include 1,3 butylene diacrylate, divinyl benzene and butylene dimethacrylate. Examples of graft linking monomers are allyl acrylate, allyl methacrylate and diallyl maleate. Additional preferred impact modifiers are of the type disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 4,292,233,EMI8.2 These impact modifiers comprise, generally, a relatively high content of a cross linked butadienepolymer grafted base having grafted thereon acrylonitrile and styrene. Other suitable impact modifiers include, but are not limited to ethylene vinyl acetate, ethylene ethylacrylate copolymers, etc. The method of blending the compositions of this invention is not critical and can be carried out by conventional techniques. One convenient method comprises blending the polyester and other ingredients in powder or granular form, extruding the blend and comminuting into pellets or other suitable shapes. The ingredients are combined in any usual manner, e.g., by dry mixing or by mixing in the melted state in an extruder, on a heated mill or in other mixers. By way of illustration, chopped glass glass rovings which have been chopped into small pieces, e.g. 1 8 to 1 inch in length, and preferably less than 1 4 inch in length is put into an extrusion compounder with the polkyester resin, other ingredients, and optionally, other additive s to produce molding pellets. The fibers are shortened and predispersed in the process, coming out at less than 1 16 inch long. In another procedure, glass filaments are ground or milled to short lengths, and are mixed with the polyester resin and stabilizers, and, optionally other additive s , by dry blending then either fluxed or a mill and ground, or they are extruded and chopped.The glass fibers can also be mixed with resin and additives and directly molded, e.g. by injection or transfer molding techniques. It is always important to thoroughly free all of the ingredients, the polyester resin and other ingredients from as much water as possible. Although it is not essential, best results are obtained if the ingredients are precompounded, pelletized and then molded. Precompounding can be carried out in conventional equipment. For example, after carefully predrying the polyester resin, other ingredients, and, optionally, other additives and or reinforcements, a single screw extruder is fed with a dry blend of the composition, the screw employed having a long transition section to insure proper melting. On the other hand, a twin screw extrusion machine e.g., a Werner Pfleiderer machine can be fed with resins and additives at the feed port and reinforcement down stream. In either case, a generally suitable machine temperature will be about 4500 to 5750F. The precompounded composition can be extruded and cut or chopped into molding compounds, such as conventional granules, pellets, etc. by standard techniques. The compositions can be molded in any equipment conventionally used for thermoplastic compositions.For example, good results will be obtained in an injection molding machine, e.g. of the Van Dorn type, with conventional cylinder temperatures, e.g., 5000F and conventional mold temperatures e.g., 150 F. If necessary, depending on the molding properties of the polyester, the amount.of additives and or reinforcing filler and the rate of.crystallization of the polyester component, those skilled in the art will be able to make the conventional adjustments in molding cycles to accommodate the composition. The compositions of this invention may be used alone as molding pellets or mixed with other polymers and may contain additional, non reinforcing fillers, such as wood flour, cloth fibers, and the like, as well as pigments, dyes, stabilizers, plasticizers, and the like. Description of the Preferred Embodiments The following examples illustrate the preparation of certain compositions within the scope of this invention. They are not to be construed to limit the invention in any manner whatsoever. All parts, except as otherwise indicated, are by weight. Examples 1 5 The formulations shown below were preblended and extruded on a 1 3 4 Sterling Extruder having a barrel temperature profile of 540 F 560 F 580 F and a die head temperature of 5200F. The extrudate was cooled through a water bath prior to pelletiz ing.Test parts were injection molded on a 3 oz. Van Dorn molding press with a set temperature of approximately 480 F. The resin was dried for 3 4 hours at 250 F in a forced air circulating oven prior to injection molding. 1 2 3 4 5PBT 100 65.352 98.35 69.55 39.05Stabilizer 0.15 0.15 0.45 0.25Flame Retardant3 26.0 29.0Sb203 Concentrate4 6.5 6.7Polycarbonate5 2.0 15.0 15.0Polyethylene 1.5 Impact Modifier6 15.0 10.0Comparative TrackingIndex, Volts 600 185 600 600 275ASTM D495 1poly l,4 butylene terephthalate resin, VALOX resin grade 310, m.v. 5,000 7,000 poise, GeneralElectric Company 2poly 1, 4 butylene terephthalate resin VALORS resin grade 315, m.v. 7,500 poise, General ElectricCompany 3brominated bisphenol A polycarbonate oligomer 480 20 by weight Sb203 polyethylene 5bisphenol A polycarbonate, General ElectricCompany 6ACRYLOID KM 330 core shell impact modifier Examples 6 9 The method of Examples 1 5 was used to produce test pieces of the following formulations. 6 7 8 9PBT2 74.35 72.75 58.55 76.25Flame Retardant9 68 BR 10.0 Flame Retardant3 58 Br 11.6 Flame Retardant10 26 Br 25.8 Decabromodiphenyl Ether 8.1Sb2O3 Concentrate4 4.0 4.0 4.0 4.0Teflon Concentrate7 0.5 0.5 0.5 0.5Impact Modifier6 6.0 6.0 6.0 6.0Stabilizer8 0.15 0.15 0.15 0.15 TiO2 5.0 5.0 5.0 5.0Comparative TrackingIndex, Volts 600 600 600 575ASTM D495 2poly 1,4 butylene terephthalate resin, VALORS resin grade 315, m.v. 7,500 poise, General ElectricCompany 3brominated bisphenol A polycarbonate oligomer 4 80 20 by weight Sb203 polyethylene 6ACRYLOID XM 330 core shell impact modifier 7 8drip suppressant hindered phenol anti oxidant 9brominated polystyrene based flame retardant 10brominated bisphenol A polycarbonate resin