# Resin composition.

## Abstract
A resin composition comprising 40 to 97 by weight of polycyanoaryl ether principally comprised of a repetitive unit represented by Formula I below

## Claims
Claims 1. A resin composition comprising 40 to 97 by weight of polycyanoaryl ether principally comprised of a repetitive unit represented by Formula I below EMI16.1 wherein Ar represents anv one ofEMI16.2 EMI16.3 and 3 to 60 by weight of an additive comprising a reinforcing agent or an inorganic filler. 2. The resin composition according to Claim 1, wherein said polycyanoaryl ether has a reduced viscosity of 0.5 dl g or more at 600C in a solution prepared by dissolving polycyano ether in a solvent of p chlorophenol to have the concentration of 0.2 g dl. 3. The resin composition according to Claim 1, wherein Ar represents a group ofEMI16.4 4. The resin composition according to Claim 1, wherein Ar represents a group ofEMI16.5 5. The resin composition according to Claim 1, wherein Ar represents a group ofEMI16.6 6 t The resin composition according to Claim 1, wherein said reinforcing agent is selected from the group consisting of carbon fiber, glass fiber, alumina fiber and aromatic polyamide fiber, and contained in an amount of from 10 to 40 by weight based on the total amount of the composition. 7. The resin composition according to Claim 1, wherein said inorganic filler is a powder of substance selected from the group consisting of mica, tulc, calcium carbonate, calcium sulfite, calcium sulfate, calcium silicate, silica, alumina, diatomaceus earth, asbestos and titania, and contained in an amount of from 20 to 50 by weight based on the total amount of the composition.

## Description
Resin compositionBACKGROUNG OF THE INVENTIONThis invention relates to a resin composition. More particularly, it relates to a resin composition having excellent mechanical properties at high temperature.Heretofore, for the purpose of improving the thermal resistance of thermoplastic resins, it has been carried out to incorporate an inorganic filler into a resin.However, in the thermoplastic resins such as polysulfone, polyethersulfone, etc. which are usually used, there is a problem that many of them have insufficiency in the thermal resistance of the resins per se, whereby the thermal resistance may not be enhanced so much even when the inorganic filler is mixed. In particular, it often occur that the mechanical strength at high temperature is insufficient.SUMMARY OF THE INVENTIONTo eliminate the problems conventionally involved in the art, it is an object of this invention to provide a resin composition which has excellent thermal r8itance and mechanical strength, or is capable of retaining sufficient mechanical strength particularly at high temperature.The present inventors have made a variety of studies to find useful combination of thermoplastic resins with certain additives. As a result, it was found that the above object can be achieved by combining a polycyanoaryl ether having a particular repetitive unit with an additive comprising a reinforcing agent or an inorganic filler which are described in detail hereinbelow, and thus this invention has been accomplished.Namely, according to this invention, there is provided a resin composition comprising 40 to 97 by weight of polycyanoaryl ether principally comprised of a repetitive unit represented by Formula I below EMI2.1 whcspain ar represents anv one ofEMI2.2 andEMI2.3 and 3 tp 60 e by weight of an additive comprising a reinforcing agent or an inorganic filler. DE CRiPTION QF THE PREFERRED EMBODIMENTSThe polycyanoaryl ether used in this invention is a polymer principally comprised of a repetitive unit represented by Formula I shown above, and preferably contains 50 mole or more of the repetitive unit ofFormula I .In addition to the above repetitive unit of Formula I , the polymer may further contain a repetitive unit represented by Formula II below as a component to form a copolymer.EMI3.1 In the repetitive unit of Formula II , Ar may include the following groups EMI3.2 In particular, the groups ofEMI3.3 are preèrrea. This repetitive unit or armuX 11 , 15 contained preferably in amount of 50 mole X or less.The polycyanoaryl ether may be readily prepared by reacting dihalogenobenzonitrile with an alkali metal salt of bihydric phenol in an aprotic polar solvent. In this reaction, monohydric phenol or monohalogenobenzonitrile may be used as a molecular weight regulator. The polycyanoaryl ether thus obtained has preferably the poylmerization degree such that its reduced viscosity n sp c is 0.5 dl g or more at 600C in a solution prepared by dissolving polycyano ether in a solvent of p chlorophenol to have the concentration of 0.2 g dl.The reinforcing agent which may be mixed into the polycyanoaryl ether may include carbon fiber, glass fiber, alumina fiber, aromatic polyamide fiber, etc. Of these, carbon fiber and glass fiber are particularly preferred. These fibrous reinforcing agents may be either continuous fiber or non continuous fiber. For instance, roving, chopped fiber, milled fiber, etc. may be used preferably.The inorganic filler which may be alternatively mixed into the polycyanoaryl ether may include powder of mica, tulc, calcium carbonate, calcium sulfite, calcium sulfate, calcium silicate, silica, alumina, diatomaceus earth, asbestosi titania, etc. Of these, mica and calcium carbonate are preferred. It is also preferred that the powder has a particle diameter ranging between 100 to 500 pm.The resin composition according to this invention is obtained by mixing the additive comprising the above reinforcing agent or inorganic filler into the above polycyanoaryl ether. The additive may be mixed in an amount of 3 to 60 by weight based on the total amount of the resin composition. Accordingly, the balance comprises 97 to 40 by volume of polycyanoaryl ether, as a matter of course. If the additive is mixed in an amount less than 3 by weight, no sufficient effect to improve the thermal resistance and the mechanical strength will be obtained. On the other hand, if the additive is mixed in an amount exceeding 60 by weight, the resin composition will be hard to melt flow, or the inorganic filler will not be uniformly dispersed in polycyanoaryl ether, diadvantageously.The additive may be mixed preferably in an amount of 10 to 40 by weight when the reinforcing agent is used, or 20 to 50 by weight when the inorganic filler is used.In preparing the resin composition, the additive comprising the reinforcing agent or the inorganic filler may be mixed into the polycyanoaryl ether in the amount prescribed above, followed by melt kneading according to a conventional method. The melt kneading may be carried out at 350 to 4100C, preferably 370 to 4000C, when the reinforcing agent is used as the additive, or at 360 to 4000c, preferably 370 to 3900C, when the inorganic filler is used as the additive. Kneading time may range between 1 and 10 minutes, preferably 2 to 5 minutes.This invention will be described in greater detail but by no means limited by the following Examples.Example 1 1 Preparation of polycyanoaryl ether Into a separable flask having internal volume of 5 lit. and equipped with a stirring device, a rectifying device and an argon gas blowing pipe, charged were 344.02 g 2.0 moles of 2,6 dichlorobenzonitrile, 317.2 g 1.98 moles of 2,7 dihydroxynaphthalene and 330 g 2.4 moles of potassium carbonate, and further charged were 2.5 lit. of sulfolan and 1 lit. of toluene as solvents, to carry out a reaction at 1600C for 2 hours while blowing argon gas through the pipe and at 2000C for two hours with stirring. Water produced during the reaction waE continuously evaporated together with toluene.After completion of the reaction, the reaction product was cooled to room temperature, and then put into m.et hanol to recover a polymer precipitated, which was then ground with use of a blender manufactured by Warning Ço5 followed by washing with 2 lit. of hot water and 2 lit.of water, respectively, to obtain 515 g of polycyanoaryl ether represented by the following formula 100 yield EMI6.1 The polymer obtained had the reduced viscosity nsp c of 0.95 dl g at 600C in a solution prepared by dissolving it in a solvent of p chlorophenol to have the concentration of 0.2 g dl. Also, thermal properties of this polymer were measured to find that it had a glass transition point of 2140C and a thermal decomposition initiating temperature of 4990C Further, this polymer had excellent flame retardancy. 2 Preparation of a resin composition Into a powder of polycyanoaryl ether obtained in the above 1 , carbon fiber produced by Toray K.K. trademark TORECA having a thread diameter of 9 pm, a, mean fiber length of 3 mm and an aspect ratio of 250 was incorporated as a reinforcing agent so as to be contained in an amount of 10 by weight based on the total amount of the composition, followed by mixing with use of aHenschel mixer. Thereafter, the mixture was kneaded and extruded at a cylinder temperature of 370 to 4000C with use of a biaxial extruder having a cylinder of 30 mm in diameter to form pellets. Subsequently, with use of an injection molding machine, a test piece was formed from this pellets at a cylinder temperature of 370 to 4000C and a mold temperature of 1400C.The test piece obtained was annealed at 2000C for 2 hours, and then subjected to tensile testing and measurements of heat distortion temperature The heat distortion temperature was measured with use of a thermal deformation measuring device manufactured by Toyo Seiki K.K., while the tensile testing was carried out with use of an autograph IS 5000 manufactured by Shimazu Seisakusho K. K. to measure the breaking strength, the breaking extensions and the elasticity modulas, respectively, under the stress rate of 1 mm min. Measurement results of the foregoing are shown in Table 1.Examples 2 3Test pieces were produced and tested in the same manner as in Example 1, except that the reinforcing agents were mixed in amounts of 20 by weight and 30 by weight, respectively. Results are shown in Table 1.Examples 4 to 6Test pieces were produced and tested in the same manner as in Example 1, except that glass fiber produced byAsahi Fiber Glass K.K. having a mS fiber length of 3 mm was used as the reinforcing agent in place of the carbon fiber. The glass fibers were mixed in amounts of 10, 20 and 30 by weight, respectively. Resits are shown in Table 1.Comparative Example 1 A test piece was produced and tested in the same manner as in Example 1, except that the reinforce agent was not mixed at all. Results obtained are shown in Table 1. Table 1 Content Tensile characteristics Heat of rein Breaking Breaking Elastic distortionExam forcing strength exten ity temperaple agent kg cm sion modula turg xt. kq cm C 1 10 1750 7 47,500 248 2 20 1900 5 95,000 290 3 30 2100 3 140,000 300 4 10 1750 5 39,000 232 5 20 1800 5 83,000 295 6 30 2050 4 120,000 300Comparative Example 1 1500 20 20,000 196Examples 7 to 12Following the procedures in Example 1, 2,6 dichlorobenzonitrile was reacted with potassium salt of hydroquinone in place of 2,7 dihydroxynaphthalene used in Example 1 to obtain polycyanoaryl ether comprising a repetitive unit represented by t he formula EMI8.1 The polycyanoaryl ether obtained had the reduced viscosity nsp c of 1.4 dl g at 600C in a solution prepared by dissolving it in a solvent of p chlorophenol to have the concentration of 0.2 g dl.Into this polycyanoaryl ether, carbon fiber same as used in Example 1 was incorporated so as to be contained in an amount of 10 Example 7 , 20 Example 3 or 30 Example 9 by weight, or, in place of the carbon fiber, glass fiber same as used in Examples 4 to 6 was incorporated in an amount of 10 Example 10 , 20 Example 11 or 30 Example 12 by weight, respectively, based on the total amount of a resulting mixture. With use of the mixture, a test piece was produced for each of theseExamples in the same manner as in Example 1, and the similar measurements were carried out. Results are shown in Table 2.Comparative Example 2A test piece was produced and tested in the same manner as in Examples 7 to 12 except that the reinforcing agent was not mixed at all. Results obtained are shown inTable 2. Table 2 Content Tensile characteristics Heat of rein Breaking Breaking Elastic tortion Exam forcing strength exten ity temperaple agent kg cm sion modulas ture wt. kg cmê 6C Carbon fiber 7 10 1500 5 48,00Q 232 8 20 1630 4 90,000 9 30 1850 4 130,000 315 Glass fiber 10 10 1620 3 36,000 210 11 20 1700 3 85,000 29 12 30 1950 3 110,00Q Comparative Example 2 1300 20 18,100 Examples 13 to 18Following the procedures in Example 1, 2,6 dichlorobenzonitrile was reacted with potassium salt of 4,4 t biphenol in place of 2,7 dihydroxynaphthalene used in Example 1 to obtain polycyanoaryl ether comprising a repetitive unit represented by the formula EMI10.1 The polycyanoaryl ether obtained had the reduced viscosity nsp c of 1.16 dl g at 600C in a solution prepared by dissolving it in a solvent of p chlorophenol to have the concentration of 0.2 g dl.Into this polycyanoaryl ether, carbon fiber same as used in Example 1 was incorporated so as to be contained in an amount of 10 Example 13 , 20 Example 14 or 30 Example 15 by weight, or, in place of the carbon fiber, glass fiber same as used in Examples 4 to 6 was incoxpow rated in an amount of 10 Example 16 , 20 Example 17 or 30 Example 18 by weight, respectively, based on the total amount of a resulting mixture With use of the mixture, a test piece was produced for each of theseExamples in the same manner as in Example 1, and the similar measurements were carried out. Results are shown in Table 3. Comparative Example 2A test piece was produced and tested in the same manner as in Examples 13 to 18 except that the reinforcing agent was not mixed at all. Results obtained are shown inTable 3. Table 3 Content Tensile characteristics Heat of rein Breaking Breaking Elastic distortionExam forcing strength exten ity temperaple agent kg cm2 sion modula ture wt. 8 kg cm c OC Carbon fiber 13 10 1250 4 40,000 260 14 20 1500 6 70,000 304 15 30 1700 6 120,000 326 Glass fiber 16 10 1300 4 38,000 255 17 20 1500 4 64,000 297 18 30 1600 3 100,000 318Comparative Example 3 1100 43 17,000 210Example 19 2,6 Dichlorobenzonitrile was reacted with potassium salt of hydroquinone to obtain polycyanoaryl ether comprising a repetitive unit represented by the formula EMI11.1 The polycyanoaryl ether obtained had the reduced viscosity sp c of 1.4 dl g at 600C in a solution prepared by dissolving it in a solvent of p chlorophenol to have the concentration of 0.2 g dl.Into this polycyanoaryl ether, mica powder of 60 mesh or less was incorporated as an inorganic filler so as to be contained in an amount of 50 by weight based on the total amount of a resulting mixture. The mixture was blended with Ee of a Henschel mixer, and thereafter, with use of a biaxial extruder, kneaded and extruded at a cylinder temperature of 360 to 4000C to form pellets.The pellets obtained were subjected to injection molding to produce a test piece, on which measurements of flexural strength and flexural elasticity modulas and a measurement of heat distortion temperature were carried out. Results are shown in Table 4.Comparative Example 4A test piece was produced in the same manner as inExample 19, except that mica was not mixed into polycyanoaryl ether, and similar measurements were carried out. Results are shown in Table 4.Example 20 2,6 DichlorobenzBonitrile was reacted with potassium salt of 4,4 biphenol to obtain polycyanoaryl ether comprising a repetitive unit represented by the formula EMI12.1 Tha polycyanoaryl ether obtained had the reduced visco Cr sp c of 1.3 dl g at 600C in a solution prepared by dissolving it in a solvent of p chlorophenol to have the concentration of 0.2 g dl. this polycyanoaryl ether, mica powder of 60 mesh or le s was incorporatea as an inorganic filler so as to be contained in an amount of 50 by weight based on the total amount of a resulting mixture. With use of this mixture, a test piece was produced in the same manner as in Example 7, and the similar measurements were carried out. Results are shown in Table 4.Comparative Example 5A test piece was produced in the same manner as inExample 20, except that mica was not mixed into polycyanoaryl ether, and similar measurements were carried out. Results are shown in Table 4. Example 21 2,6 Dichlorobenzonitrile was reacted with potassium salt of 2,7 dihydroxynaphthalene to obtain polycyanoaryl ether represented by the formula EMI13.1 The polycyanoaryl ether obtained had the reduced viscosity psp c of 0.82 dl g at 600C in a solution prepared by dissolving it in a solvent of p chlorophenol to have the concentration of 0.2 g dl.Into this polycyanoaryl ether, mica powder of 60 mesh or less was incorporated as an inorganic filler so as to be contained in an amount of 50 z by weight based on the total amount of a resulting mixture. With use of this mixture, a test piece was produced in the same manner as in Example 7, and the similar measurements were carried out. Results are shown in Table 4. Comparative Example 6 A test piece was produced in the same manner as in Example 21, except that mica was not mixed into polycyanoaryl ether, and similar measurements were carried out. Results are shown in Table 4. Table 4 Flexural Strength Flexural elasticity Heat kgZcm modulas kg cm distor Room 1000C 2000C Room 0 tion temOp.o temp. 100 C 200 C temp. 100 C Example 19 2,400 1,500 800 134,000 119,000 28,000 310Comparative Example 4 2,400 1,350 130 35,700 26,900 630 165Example 20 1,800 1,200 750 125,000 108,000 26,000 315Comparative Example 5 1,800 950 200 29,000 22,500 450 180Example 21 3,000 1 85q 960 155,000 126,000 31,000 320Comparative Example 6 2,900 ,60 150 41,000 29,500 750 180 As will be seen from the foregoing descriptions, the resin composition according to this invention, which is obtained by mixing an appropreate amount of an additive comprising a reinforcing agent or an inorganic filler into polycyanoaryl eth having particular structure, can attain remarkable increase in the mechanical strength at high temperature, in particular, the flexural elasticity modulas, as compared with conventional compositions.Accordingly, it is useful as a material for electronic or electric equipments and various kind of machines, and has great industrial values.