# Phosphoric ester compound

## Claims
Patentansprüche für folgende Vertragsstaaten BE, CH, DE, FR, GB, NL, SE, IT

## Description
The present invention relates to a new phosphoric ester compound and,more particularly to a phosphoric ester compound containing a polyester chainuseful as a pigment dispersant or flushing agent in the production of a pigmentcomposition useful as a coloring material such as paint, printing ink or a syntheticresin colorant. EP A 0 164 817 discloses surfactants for enhancing the dispersibility ofsolids, such as e.g. compounds obtained by reacting a hydroxy terminatedpolyester with a phosphorylating agent. In the conventional process for producing paints and printing inks, lecithin,which is one of phospholipids has been used both as a dispersant for dispersing apigment into a paint vehicle or printing ink varnish, and as a flushing agent forflushing the aqueous filter cake into an oil vehicle or oil varnish. Being a natural phospholipid, lecithin is liable to oxidation and ranciditywhich lead to deterioration and putrefaction. Thus there has been a demand for adispersant or flushing agent which is stabler and better than lecithin. In view of the above mentioned drawbacks of the conventional dispersantor flushing agent and in order to develop a new compound which is compatiblewith vehicles and varnishes and also with pigments and is useful as a pigmentdispersant, the present inventors carried out a series of researches which led to the finding that a phosphoric ester obtained by reacting a polyester having ahydroxyl group with phosphoric acid exhibits outstanding properties and effectsrequired for pigment dispersants. The present invention was completed based onthis finding. Accordingly, it is an object of the present invention to provide a newphosphoric ester compound wherein the phosphoric ester compound isrepresented by the formula below and useful for a pigment dispersant or flushingagent. The phosphoric ester compound which characterizes this invention is aspecific phosphoric ester compound as defined above. The phosphoric ester compound of this invention can be obtained byvarious methods. According to a preferred method, it is obtained by reacting 1mole of an ester forming phosphorus compound with 3 moles, 2 moles. or 1 mole of a hydroxyl terminated polyester obtained by self polycondensation ofhydroxy carboxylic acid. It is also possible to produce the phosphoric ester compound of thisinvention by the process in which 1 mole of an ester forming phosphoruscompound is reacted with 3 to 1 mole of hydroxy carboxylic acid or lower alcoholester thereof as a monomer and the resulting ester of phosphoric acid andhydroxy carboxylic acid undergoes chain growth with the same or differenthydroxy carboxylic acid monomer and or hydroxyl terminated polyester. When 1 mole of an ester forming phosphorus compound is reacted with 3moles of a hydroxyl terminated polyester, there is obtained a phosphoric estercompound in which all of the three R s in the above formula are hydroxyl terminatedpolyester residues. Also, when 1 mole of an ester forming phosphoruscompound is reacted with 2 moles or 1 mole of hydroxyl terminated polyester,there is obtained a phosphoric ester compound in which two or one of the threeR s in the above formula are hydroxyl terminated polyester residues. Among the ester forming phosphorus compounds that can be used in thisinvention are phosphorus oxychloride, phosphorus pentoxide, phosphorustrichloride, phosphoric anhydride, and acetyl phosphate. Preferable among them isphosphorus oxychloride. The reaction of the above mentioned ester forming phosphorus compoundwith a hydroxyl terminated polyester should preferably be carried out in an organicsolvent which is both inert to the reactants and reaction products and solubilizesthem. Examples of such organic solvents include aliphatic saturated hydrocarbonssuch as octane, petroleum ether, ligroin, mineral spirit, and kerosene aromatichydrocarbons such as benzene, toluene and xylene halogenated aliphatic hydrocarbons such as trichloroethane and tetrachloroethane and chlorinatedaromatic hydrocarbons such as dichlorobenzene and trichlorobenzene. They havebeen used for the production of polyesters. In the case where a halogenated phosphorus compound such asphosphorus oxychloride is used as the ester forming phosphorus compound, it isdesirable to use as a catalyst a tertiary amine such as triethylamine an organicbase such as pyridine, 2 6 lutidine, and 1,8 diaza bicyclo 5.4.0 undecene 7 or aninorganic base such as oxides, hydroxides, carbonates and organic acid salts ofalkali metals or alkaline earth metals. The hydroxy terminated polyester used is an already known aliphatic,alicyclic or aromatic hydroxy terminated polyester. The molecular weight of thehydroxyl terminated polyester used in the above mentioned reaction is not critical.A dimer or a polymer having an average molecular weight lower than 10,000,preferably about 500 to 5,000, can be used. The hydroxyl terminated polyester as mentioned above is obtained byself polycondensation of a hydroxy carboxylic acid which has both a hydroxylgroup and a carboxyl group on the molecule. The preferred hydroxy carboxylicacid is one which has 4 to 30 carbon atoms. Examples of such hydroxy carboxylicacids include ricinoleic acid, 12 hydroxy stearic acid, castor oil fatty acid,hydrogenated castor oil fatty acid, δ hydroxy valeric acid, ε hydroxy caproic acid,p hydroxyethyloxybenzoic acid, and hydroxynaphthalene carboxylic acid. Theymay be used individually or in combination with one another. It is also possible to use, n the same manner, a hydroxyl terminatedpolyester obtained by esterifying an alcohol with the terminal carboxyl group of apolyester obtained from the above mentioned hydroxy carboxylic acid. Examples of the alcohol used for the terminal esterification are alcohols having 1 to 30carbon atoms, such as methyl alcohol, ethyl alcohol, propyl alcohol, butyl alcohol,hexyl alcohol, octyl alcohol, decyl alcohol, dodecyl alcohol, tridecyl alcohol,hexadecyl alcohol, octadecyl alcohol, tetracosyl alcohol, hexacosyl alcohol,octadecenyl alcohol, cyclohexyl alcohol, and benzyl alcohol. The phosphoric ester compound of this invention is obtained by reacting 3moles, 2 moles, or 1 mole of the above mentioned hydroxyl terminated polyesterwith 1 mole of the above mentioned ester forming phosphorus compound. Where2 moles or 1 more of the above mentioned polyester is reacted with 1 mole of thephosphorus compound, one or two R s other than polyester residues in theabove mentioned formula may be groups other than the above mentionedpolyester, such as residues of alcohol compounds. Examples of the alcoholresidues are the residues of the above mentioned ordinary monohydric alcohols,the hydroxy carboxylic acid above mentioned as the monomer and hydroxyl esterof the above mentioned hydroxyl carboxylic acid with the above mentionedalcohol. The above mentioned phosphoric ester compound of this invention comesin different forms according to the substituent group R. The ones defined beloware comparatively hydrophobic dispersants adequately soluble in an organicsolvent, and are used directly or in solvent solution to make the surface of amaterial such as pigment hydrophobic or oily. 1 All of the three R s are residuesof hydroxyl terminated polyester. 2 The three R s are residues of hydroxyl terminatedpolyester and residues of other alcohols. The phosphoric ester compound containing a polyester chain of the presentinventlon is not in danger of deterioration and putrefaction due to oxidation andrancidity, unlike lecithin as a natural phospholipid, which has been conventionally used as a pigment dispersant for paints, printing inks and plastics colorants. Ithas good stability and produces an outstanding effect in the surface modificationof pigments and the dispersion of pigments in a medium. The phosphoric ester compound of this invention is readily adsorbed on thepigment surface due to the electronic attraction produced by the phosphoric esterlinkage and the ester linkage contained therein and the affinity for mediumsproduced by the hydrocarbon chain contained therein. This adsorption improvesthe wettability, dispersibility and flowability of pigments. Therefore the phosphoricester compound is useful as a dispersant in dispersing using a dispersing machineor a mixing machine. In addition the phosphoric ester compound is useful as aflushing agent for the aqueous filter cake of pigment. It makes the pigment surfacelipophilic or hydrophobic, permitting effective flushing of pigments In addition, the phosphoric ester compound of this invention is also usefulfor such additive as a dispersant in a medium a fine solid particle such asmagnetic recording material an electroconductive substance such as metallicfiber, high structure carbon black, carbon fiber material for electro magneticinterference ceramic raw material and so on. The invention is now described in more detail with reference to examples. In examples, quantities are expressed as parts by weight or percent by weight. Into a four mouth glass reactor equipped with a stirrer, thermometer, reflux condenser with a moisture distilling tube, and inlet and placed in an oil bath werecharged 100 parts of 12 hydroxystearic acid and 100 parts of toluene, followed bystirring for dissolution. After heating, there was added 1.0 part of p toluenesulfonicacid as a polycondensation catalyst. The reaction liquid was heated to 120 C topromote the polycondensation of 12 hydroxystearic acid. The progress of thereaction was measured by means of the volume of distilled water and the infraredabsorption spectrum of the reaction product after the lapse of 60 minutes, 120minutes, and 180 minutes. After 200 minutes, the polycondensation reaction wasterminated by cooling. When the reactants were cooled to 63 C, there were added 50 parts ofmethanol, 100 parts of methyl acetate, and 0.5 parts of p toluene sulfonic acid.The reactants were heated to 110 C, with distillation of the solvent, to perform themethylesterification of the terminal carboxyl group of the polyester. When 150 partsof solvent had been distilled away, the reactants were cooled to 63 C. Then 200parts of methanol were added and the solvent was distilled away by heating to110 C. The total amount distilled away was 245 parts. The methylesterification took about 5 hours. After the reaction, 300 parts ofwater were added to the reaction mixture to extract water soluble componentsfrom the reaction mixture. The oil layer was collected from the separating twolayers. For dehydration of the oil phase, 150 parts of toluene and 200 parts ofmethanol were added, followed by heating to 130 C with blowing of nitrogen gas.Thus, water and solvents, 345 parts in total, were distilled away. The reaction product thus obtained was an amber liquid. It was identifed asa methyl ester of a self polycondensation polyester of 12 hydroxystearic acid bythe infrared absorption spectrum and gel permeation chromatograph. It was confirmed by the acid value of the reaction product that themethylesterifiaction of the terminal carboxyl group of the polyester was almostcomplete. The hydroxyl value of the reaction product was 40 8. This indicates that1 gram equivalent of the methyl ester of the self polycondensation polyester of 12 hydroxystearicacid is 1,375 and the average degree of polycondensation is about5. Into a four mouth glass reactor equipped with a stirrer, thermometer,dropping funnel, and reflux condenser and placed in a water bath were charged188.2 parts of the methyl ester of the polyester obtained in the above mentionedstep 1 1 gram equivalent was 1,375 , 188.2 parts of benzene, and 16.6 parts oftriethylamine followed by stirring and dissolution. The dropping funnel was filledwith 7.0 parts of phosphorus oxychloride. The equivalent ratio of the hydroxyl terminated polyester, phosphorusoxychloride and triothylamine was 3 3 3.6. While stirring and cooling the reaction mixture below 10 C , phosphorusoxychloride was added dropwise from the dropping funnel over 30 minutes. Afteraddition, the reaction was continued for 2 hours with stirring, followed by cooling. For the removal of triethylamine as a dehydrochlorination catalyst andtriethylamine hydrochloride, the reaction mixture was washed with an equalamount of deionized water, half an amount of water acidified with hydrochloric acidand three times with half an amount of deionized water using a separatory funnel.The washed benzene layer was dried with sodium sulfate and benzene wasdistilled away under vacuum. Thus there was obtained a brown liquid reaction product. The reaction product was identified as a phosphoric triester compound ofthe methyl ester of the self polycondensation polyester of 12 hydroxy stearic acidby the infrared absorption spectrum and gel permeation chromatograph. Theaverage molecular weight of the principal component of this compound was 4,200. The above mentioned phosphoric triester compound of the methyl ester ofthe poly 12 hydroxystearic acid is effective on the high concentrated charging ofpigment, on the reduction of dispersing time and on dispersibility in the dispersionof a pigment such as copper phthalocyanine blue pigment, copper phthalocyaninegreen pigment, azo lake pigment insoluble azopigment, carbon black pigment andso on. It is also effective as a flushing agent in the flushing of an aqueous presscake of pigment. Various phosphoric triester compounds were prepared in the same manneras step 2 in Example 1 except that the reactant were replaced by those whichare shown in Table 1 below. Into a four mouth glass reactor the same one as used in step 2 inExample 1 equipped with a stirrer, thermometer, dropping funnel, and refluxcondenser were charged 23.6 parts of phosphorus oxychloride. 147.7 parts ofmethyl ester of poly 12 hydroxystearic acid having an average molecular weight of1440 separately prepared in the same manner as in step 1 in Example 1 whichhad been mixed with and dissolved in 147.7 parts of benzene and 12.5 parts of triethylamine, were slowly added dropwise at 5 to 10 C over 2 hours. The reactionwas carried out at 10 C for 1 hour. Further 30.8 parts of the methyl ester of thepoly 12 hydroxystearic acid having an average molecular weight of 600 preparedin the same manner as above , which had been mixed with and dissolved in 30.8parts of benzene and 6.2 parts of triethylamine, was slowly added dropwise at 10to 20 C over 1 hour. The reaction was carried out for 1 hour each at 20 C, 40 C,and 60 C and for 2 hours at 80 C with stirring. Finally the reactlon product wascooled. The molar ratio of polyester average molecular weight 1440 , polyester average molecular weight 600 , phosphorus oxychloride, and triethylamine was2 1 3 3.6. The cooled reaction product was washed, purified, dried concentrated anddesolvated in the same manner as in step 2 of Example 1. Thus there wasobtained a brown liquid. The reaction product was identified as a phosphoric triester of the methylester of the poly 12 hydroxystearic acid in the same way as in step 2 of Example1. The average molecular weight of the principal component of this compound wasabout 3,500. Thus the obtained compound is effectively used as a dispersant,flushing agent of pigment, same as the phosphoric triester compound of Example1. Various phosphoric triester compounds were prepared in the same manneras in Example 13 except that the reactants were replaced by those which areshown in Table 2 below. These phosphoric triester compounds are effectively used as a dispersant, flushing agent of pigment, and so on, same as the phosphorictriester compound of Example 1.