# Magnetic recording medium.

## Abstract
A magnetic recording medium improved in durability at an elevated temperature which comprises a substrate and a magnetic layer comprising magnetic powder and a resinous binder formed on the substrate, characterized in that the magnetic layer further comprises an ester of a polyvalent alcohol with a fatty acid in an amount of 0.01 to 40 parts by weight to one part by weight of the magnetic powder.

## Claims
1. A magnetic recording medium which comprises a substrate and a magnetic layer comprising magnetic powder and a resinous binder formed on the substrate, characterized in that the magnetic layer further comprises an ester of a polyvalent alcohol with a fatty acid.

## Description
This invention relates to a magnetic recording medium improved in durability at an elevated temperature. In magnetic recording media such as magnetic disks, magnetic tapes and magnetic sheets prepared by applying a magnetic coating composition comprising magnetic powder, a resinous binder and an organic solvent onto a substrate such as a polyester film to make a magnetic layer, the magnetic layer is apt to be worn away due to its contact with a magnetic head as well as a pad under a large velocity at recording and reproducing. Thus, development of a magnetic recording medium excellent in wear resistance and durability has been highly desired. For this purpose, it has already been proposed to incorporate a variety of lubricants into the magnetic layer. A typical example of such lubricants is an ester of a monovalent alcohol with a fatty acid. In fact, the incorporation of said ester can surely improve the wear resistance to a certain extent at low temperatures but does not improve the wear resistance at high temperatures. As a result of extensive study for overcoming said drawback, it has now been found that the incorporation of an ester of a polyvalent alcohol with a fatty acid into the magnetic layer is highly effective in improvement of the wear resistance, particularly at an elevated temperature. Thus, the incorporation of said polyvalent alcohol fatty acid ester can provide a magnetic recording medium excellent in durability even when used at such a high temperature as about 40 C. This invention is based on the above finding. Accordingly, a main object of the present invention is to provide a magnetic recording medium comprising a substrate and a magnetic layer comprising magnetic powder and a resinous binder formed thereon, characterized in that the magnetic layer further comprises an ester of a polyvalent alcohol with a fatty acid as a lubricant. As the polyvalent alcohol fatty acid ester, there may be employed any ester between a polyvalent alcohol and a fatty acid. The polyvalent alcohol portion is preferred to have carbon atoms of 2 to 30 carbon atoms, while the fatty acid portion is favored to have carbon atoms of 8 to 30 carbon atoms. In general, the polyvalent alcohol fatty acid ester in which the fatty acid portion is saturated has a high melting point and is in a solid state at room temperature. Its use in a relatively large amount results in bleeding out onto the surface of the magnetic layer to produce whitening, which will cause drop out. Thus, its use is to be limited to a relatively small amount. On the other hand, the polyvalent alcohol fatty acid ester in which the fatty acid portion is unsaturated is usually in a liquid state at room temperature. It may be employed in a relatively large amount since no whitening is casued thereby. While the polyvalent alcohol portion may be chosen from glycerol, erythritol, pentaerythritol, arabitol, sorbitol, sorbitan, mannitol, mannitan, trimethylolethane, trimethylolpropane, trimethylolbutane, trimethylolpentane, trimethylolhexane, etc, the fatty acid portion may be chosen from butyric acid, caproic acid, caprylic acid, capric acid, lauric acid, myristic acid, palmitic acid, palmitoleic acid, stearic acid, oleic acid, linoleic acid, linolenic acid, alpha eleostearic acid, ricinoleic acid, gadoleic acid, arachidonic acid, behenic acid, etc. Specific examples of the polyvalent alcohol fatty acid ester are glycerol tristearate, glycerol trioleate, trimethylolpropane tristearate, trimethylolpropane trioleate, pentaerythritol tetrastearate, pentaerythritol tetraoleate, etc. The amount of the polyvalent alcohol fatty acid ester to be incorporated into the magnetic layer is usually from 0.01 to 40 by weight based on the weight of the magnetic powder. When the amount is less than 0.01 by weight, the wear resistance at an elevated temperature is not sufficiently improved. When more than 40 by weight, bleeding out occurs at the surface of the magnetic layer so that the spacing between the magnetic head and the surface of the magnetic layer is increased and the output is lowered. Since the polyvalent alcohol fatty acid ester is, in general, well compatible with other lubricants, it may be used with any other lubricant in combination. When, for instance, it is used together with an ester of a monovalent alcohol with a fatty acid, the wear resistance is improved not only at a high temperature but also at a low temperature. The monovalent alcohol fatty acid ester may comprise usually from 10 to 50 carbon atoms in total, and its specific examples are oleyl oleate, octyl oleate, n butyl oleate, etc. In general, the use of the monovalent alcohol fatty acid ester in which the fatty acid portion is unsaturated is favorable. In case of the other lubricant such as the monovalent alcohol fatty acid ester being used, the amount of such other lubricant may be 99 parts by weight or less to one part by weight of the polyvalent alcohol fatty acid ester. The use of the other lubricant in a higher amount is not favorable, because the technical effect, i.e. the improvement of the wear resistance at an elevated temperature, due to the polyvalent alcohol fatty acid ester is lost. When the other lubricant is used in addition to the polyvalent alcohol fatty acid ester, the total amount of them may be usually from 1 to 40 by weight based on the weight of the magnetic powder. Still, various kinds of the polyvalent alcohol fatty acid esters and, if used, of the other lubricant may be respectively employed alone or in combination. For formation of a magnetic layer comprising the polyvalent alcohol fatty acid ester as the lubricant, there may be adopted any per se conventional procedure. For instance, the polyvalent alcohol fatty acid ester and, if used, any other lubricant are dissolved in an appropriate solvent or solvent mixture e.g. n hexane, methanol, ethanol, isopropanol, freon to make a lubricant solution, and this lubricant solution may be coated or sprayed onto a magnetic layer comprising magnetic powder as previously prepared. Alternatively, the magnetic layer may be dipped in said lubricant solution. Further, magnetic powder and a resinous binder may be incorporated into said lubricant solution to make a magnetic coating composition, which is applied onto a substrate to form a magnetic layer. When desired, the thus formed magnetic layer may be subjected to super calendering or polishing at the surface. As the magnetic powder, there may be used metallic iron, metallic cobalt, iron or cobalt alloy, gamma Fe₂O₃, Fe₃O₄, intermediary oxide of iron or cobalt or its cobalt modified product, barium ferrite or the like. Examples of the resinous binder are vinyl chloride resin, vinyl acetate resin, vinyl chloride vinyl acetate copolymer, vinyl chloride vinyl acetate vinyl alcohol copolymer, polyurethane resin, cellulose resin, polyester resin or its sulfonated product, vinylidene chloride acrylonitrile copolymer, acrylonitrile butadiene copolymer, isoprene rubber, butadiene rubber, etc. In addition, the magnetic coating composition or the magnetic layer may comprise any other additive such as a hardner e.g. low molecular weight isocyanate compound . Practical and presently preferred embodiments of the invention are illustratively shown in the following Examples wherein part s are by weight unless otherwise indicated. For preparation of a magnetic coating composition, the following materials were used The above materials were well mixed in a ball mill to prepare a magnetic coating composition. The coating composition was applied to both surfaces of a polyester base film of 75µ in thickness to form a magnetic layer having a thickness of about 1.1 µ after drying on each surface and dried, followed by punching into a round disk form to obtain a magnetic recording disc. Preparation of a magnetic recording disc was carried out in the same manner as in Example 1 but using glycerol tristearate 10 parts instead of pentaerythritol tetrastearate. Preparation of a magnetic recording disc was carried out in the same manner as in Example 1 but using trimethylolpropane trioleate 10 parts instead of pentaerythritol tetrastearate. Preparation of a magnetic recording disc was carried out in the same manner as in Example 1 but using trimethylolpropane tristearate 10 parts instead of pentaerythrytol tetrastearate. Preparation of a magnetic recording disc was carried out in the same manner as in Example 1 but using pentaerythritol tetraoleate 10 parts instead of pentaerythritol tetrastearate. Preparation of a magnetic recording disc was carried out in the same manner as in Example 1 but additionally incorporating oleyl oleate 100 parts into the magnetic coating composition. Preparation of a magnetic recording disc was carried out in the same manner as in Example 1 but additionally incorporating octyl oleate 100 parts into the magnetic coating composition. Preparation of a magnetic recording disc was carried out in the same manner as in Example 1 but additionally incorporating stearic acid 10 parts into the magnetic coating composition. Preparation of a magnetic recording disc was carried out in the same manner as in Example 1 but additionally incorporating oleic acid 10 parts into the magnetic coating composition. Preparation of a magnetic recording disc was carried out in the same manner as in Example 1 but additionally incorporating liquid paraffin 100 parts into the magnetic coating composition. Preparation of a magnetic recording disc was carried out in the same manner as in Example 1 but using trimethylolpropane tristearate 10 parts instead of pentaerythritol tetrastearate and additionally incorporating octyl oleate 100 parts into the magnetic coating composition. Preparation of a magnetic recording disc was carried out in the same manner as in Example 1 but using trimethylolpropane tristearate 10 parts instead of pentaerythritol tetrastearate and additionally incorporating oleyl oleate 100 parts into the magnetic coating composition. Preparation of a magnetic recording disc was carried out in the same manner as in Example 1 but using glycerol trioleate 10 parts instead of pentaerythritol tetrastearate and additionally incorporating oleyl oleate 100 parts into the magnetic coating composition. Preparation of a magnetic recording disc was carried out in the same manner as in Example 1 but using n butyl stearate 10 parts instead of pentaerythritol tetrastearate. Every fourteen samples of the magnetic recording disc obtained in each of Examples 1 to 13 and Comparative Example 1 were each placed into a jacket for dust prevention and then set in a recording reproducing apparatus for testing the durability. Each magnetic recording disc was subjected to recording at 5 or 40 C while contacting with the magnetic head under the following conditions head pressure, 40 g running speed, 300 rpm circumferential speed, 1 m sec write frequency, 125 KHz. The running rotation times until the reproducing output decreased to 70 of the initial output were counted. The results are shown in Table 1. As can be seen in Table 1, the magnetic recording discs of the invention Examples 1 to 13 are greater in running times than conventional magnetic recording discs Comparative Example 1 , particularly at 40 C. Accordingly, it may be said that the magnetic recording discs of the invention are excellent in wear resistance and durability at an elevated temperature.