# Method of and apparatus for use in synchronizing devices.

## Abstract
An apparatus 10 for use in synchronizing the line ad aptation between devices includes a quad flip flop 34 a state machine 39 , and a delay generator 40 having selectable delays which delays are preferably sequentially decreasing as the apparatus 10 moves from state to state.

## Claims
Claims 1. Method of synchronizing a peripheral interface device 22 and a peripheral data communication device 26 characterized in that it comprises the steps of indicating a change of activity on a communication line 32 connecting said peripheral interface device 22 and said peripheral data communication device 26 acquiring control over said peripheral interface device 22 disabling said peripheral interface device 22 whereby said peripheral data communication device 26 receives error messages caused by said disabling of said peri pheral interface device 22 disabling said peripheral data communication device 26 in response to said error messages and executing a synchronization process. 2. Method according tovolaim 1, characterized in that said synchronization process comprising the steps of introducing a first time delay when said peripheral interface device 22 is disabled monitoring said line subsequent to said first time de lay to detect activity thereon either reintroducing, after said monitoring steps, said first time delay if said monitoring step detects acitivity on said line or enabling a line ádÅaptation procedure, via said peripheral interface device 22 , if said monitoring step detects a dean line. 3. Method according to claim 2, characterized in that said synchronization process further comprising the step of enabling, after a second time delay, a line adaptation procedure via said peripheral data communication device 26 , said second time delay being less than said first time delay. 4. Method according to claim 3, characterized in that said synchronization process further comprises the step of reenabling said line adaptation procedure via said peripheral interface device 22 if said line activity from said line adaptation procedure via said peripheral data communication device 26 is undetected after a time greater than said second time delay but less than said first time delay. 5. Method according to claim 4, characterized in that said synchronization process further comrpises the steps of introducing a third time delay, said time delay being less than said second time delay reenabling, after said third time delay, said peripheral data communication device 26 reenabling, in response to said reenabling of said peri pheral data communication device 26 , said peripheral interface device 22 after completion of said line adap tation procedure from said peripheral data communication device 26 and expiration of said third time delay. 6. Method according to claim 5, characterized in that said synchronization process further comprises the step of reenabling said line adaptation procedure via said peripheral interface device 22 if enabling said peripheral data communication device 26 is undetected after a time greater than said third time delay but less than said second time delay. 7. Apparatus for use in synchronizing line adaptation between a peripheral interface device 22 and a peripheral data communication device 26 which are interconnected via a communication line 32 , characterized in that it comprises a first apparatus lOA associated with said peripheral interface device 22 , said first apparatus 10A having means for indicating a change of activity on said communication line 32 , means,responsive to said change of acitivity indication, for acquiring control of said first apparatus 10A and a state machine 39 for executing a synchronization process having a plurality of steps, said synchronization process including transition states dependent upon different time delays a second apparatus lOB associated with said peripheral data communication device 26 , said second apparatus 10B being substantially identical with said first apparatus 10A and a different binary input to each said state machine 39 for coordinating said synchronization process of said first apparatus lOA with that of said second apparatus lOB whereby said device initiating a reference message first is selected. 8. Apparatus according to claim 7, characterized in that each said state machine 39 having a quad flip flop 34 for receiving an input EOA indicative of the completion of a line adaptation procedure whereby one state transition of each. said state machine 39 dependents upon the reception of said input. 9. Apparatus according to claim 8, characterized in that it comprises means, associated with each said apparatus 10A, 10B , for disabling said device 22, 26 associated therewith thereby causing a change in acitivty on said communication line 32 . 10. Apparatus according to claim 7, characterized in that it comprises a delay generator 40 being adapted to generate a signal indicative of the end of each said time delay. 11. Apparatus according to claim 10, characterized in that each delay generator 40 includes a plurality of serially connected counters 60 and a demultiplexer 58 , the ouptut from said demultiplexer 58 and said counters 60 being adapted to provide a delay completion signal to said state machine 39 . 12. Apparatus according to claim ii, characterized in that said delay generator 40 includes means 62 for priding a selected one of a plurality of time delays. 13. Apparatus according to claim 12, characterized in that said time delay provided is selected by the state of said state machine 39 . 14. Apparatus according to claim 12, characterized in that said state machine 39 selects progressively decreasing time delays.

## Description
METHOD OF AND APPARATUS FOR USE IN SYNCHRONSZLWG DEVICES The present invention relates to a method of synchronizing a peripheral interface device and a peripheral data commuxlicazion device and to an apparatus for carrying out such a method. In order to establish electronic communication between any two data transceivers across a single medium it is necessary to ensure that simultaneous transmissions thereof do not interfere with each other. The most obvious solution is to establish a communication link that allows oaly one party to transmit at any given time. This is generally known as the ping pong technique. That is, a single wire, or communication link, is time shared. In a ping pong communication system, one party is generally designated the master, and the other the slave. The master transmits periodic bursts of data, after which it leaves a non transmitting gap long enough for the slave to respond.The slave is constrained to transmit only after the master has completed a transmission. Since neither party has full time access to the communication medium, data rates are necessarily lower than the full data capacity of the medium. If both parties are transmitting the same amount of information to each other at the same speed then each party has access to the medium for less than one half of the total time, since some time is lost when the medium is turned over from master to slave, and vice verso As a result, each party must transmit at a rate greater than twice that which would otherwise be necessary.The conventional resolution to the difficulties of the ping pong technique is to provide each party with equipment enabling it to remove the results of its own transmission from the signals it receives over the medium. Thus, both parties can transmit simultaneously, since the signal remaining after removing the results of their own transmission is the signal transmitted by the other party. In practice, this is most frequently implemented in a telephone subset by a circuit known as a hybrid, where the medium used is a twisted pair of wires. Although the telephonic hybrid is primarily for voice communications, the same and similar techniques have been used for digital communications. This solution, however, is not without problems.When the frequencies transmitted and received rise above the low audio range and as distances increase especially for transmission across a twisted pair of wires, it becomes increasingly difficult to design a circuit that will remove enough of ones own transmitted signal to leave an intelligible received signal. This is due to several factors, for example echos due to reflections on the line, echos are more significant at higher frequencies where the nominal wavelength of the signals is less than one fourth of the length of the transmission line impedance mismatch due to secondary effects are more prevalent at higher frequencies and long line lengths and time variation of both of the aforementioned factors. For these reasons, it becomes necessary to provide some form of line adaptation mechanism.However, current line adaption mechanisms require that the data transmitted by both parties be statistically uncorrelated. It is not presently possible to guarantee statistically flncorrelated data between parties which transmit similarly formatted data at identical signalling rates. It is,an object o.f,the present invention to provide a method and an apparatus adapted to synchronize the line adaptation of devices to ensure the accurate exchange of digitally encoded information. According to the invention, this object is attained by the method claimed in claim 1 and by the apparatus claimed in claim 7. Developments of the invention are characterized in the subclaims. An embodiment of the invention will ow be explained in detail with reference to the accorapanying drawings, in which Figure 1 is a block diagram of an apparatus embodying the principles of the present invention in one intended functional environment . Figure 2 is a block diagram of the apparatus shown inFigure 1 Figure 3 is a state transition table for the state machine shown in Figure 2 Figure 4 is a block diagram of a latch useful as shown inFigure 2 Figure 5 is a block diagram of a delay generator useful as shown in Figure 2 and Figures 6A and 6B are state diagrams of the method of adapatation between two data devices. An apparatus, generally indicated at 10 in Figure 1 and embodying the principles of the present invention, is shown, in an exemplary operating environment therefor. As shown, the exemplary environment is a data communication system 12, only a portion of which is acutally depicted in detail. The system 2 includes a digital switching network 14 having a plurality of subsystems 16 interconnected thereto via a plurality of communication links 18. Thus, the subsystems 16 are fully intercommunicative between and among each other. The plurality of subsystems 16 are, preferably, substantially identical and each is adapted to interface with a plurality of peripherals. The exchange of data with each one of those peripherals being subject to the synchronization of that perpheral and the subsystem 16. As shown in Figure 1, each subsystem 16 includes at least one network interface device 20 and at least one peripheral interface device 22. The peripheral interface devices 22 and the network interface device 20 are interconnected via an intrasubsystem bus 24. Each peripheral interface device 22 is capable of servic being a plurality of peripherals 26. In one preferred arrangement, each peripheral interface devices 22 of each subsystem 16 is provided with a data transport controller 28 including therein a device interface controller 30 capable of supporting a plurality of peripherals 26, for example, each peripheral interface device 22 can be adapted to service eight twisted pairs of wires. As shown in Figure 1, each peripheral interface device 22 has one apparatus 10 associated therewith for each peripheral 26 interconnected thereto. In addition, each peripheral 26 has a substantially identical apparatus 10 associated therewith. Each apparatus lJ associated with the peripheral interface device 22 is, in the preferred embodiment, preferably, interconnected to the corresponding apparatus 10 of the peripheral 26 by means of a twisted pair of wires 32. In the preferred embodiment, the apparatus 10 includes, as shown in the block diagram of Figure 2, a quad flip flop 34, a logic matrix 36, a latch 38 and a delay generator 40.The logic matrix 36 and the. latch 38 effectively form a state machine 39. In addition, logic gates 41 are provided to implement the desired communication line conditions. In this embodiment, the quad flip flop 34 synchronizes the current inputs to the clock of the state machine 39. As known in the art, the phrase statemachine is generally taken to mean any device having the output thereof dependent only upon the current state thereof and the current inputs thereto. In general, the latch 38, in this embodiment, is a nine bit latch and receives inputs from the logic matrix 36 and, on a clock pulse, transfers those inputs to the output thereof and retains that output state until the following clock pulse. The delay generator 40, as more fully discussed below, introduces prespecified delays between the various states of the state machine 39 during the synchronization, or handshake, procedure. As shown, a clock signal CLK is provided by an external system clock, not shown in the drawings, to the quad flip flop 34, the latch 38 and the delay generator 40 via a clock line 42. This common clocking signal ensures the synchronization of the elements of the apparatus 10. In addition, a master reset signal CMRST is provided by an external controller, not shown in the drawings, to allow the apparatus 10 to be initialized to a predetermined state. A non adaption signal is provided to the latch 38 from an external controller, not shown in the drawings, to force a preselected output therefrom. The non adaption signal is used, for example, when the communication line is, for example, sufficiently short that adaptation is unnecessary. The apparatus 10 has, inter alia, three output status lines, 44, 46, and 48 designated as NORMAL, ADAPT, and THEN i.e. transmit enable, respectively. Functionally, so long as the line 44 i.e. the normal status line, has a preselected binary value, normal data exchange can be attempted subject to prevailing system conditions. When the ADAPT line 46 changes state the circuitry associated with normal operation is shut down, or disabled to allow the line adaptation mechanism to operate. The state of the TXEN line 48 determines whether or not data can be transmitted over the twisted pair 32. This control of the transmission path is necessary since, during the line adaptation procedure, the normal data path is used for exchanging reference messages.Hence, normal data exchange cannot be permitted during the synchronization procedure. Preferably, the state machine 39 operates according to the state transition matrix shown in Figure 3. The O s and l s represent binary states whereas the Xts indicate that the binary state at that particular port, under the prevailing condition, is irrelevant to the operation of the apparatus 10. As known, a binary 1, or high, state and a binary 0, or low, state represent relative voltages and not any particular voltage level. In fact, the designation of a high or low state is immaterial so long as it is consistent since all functional results depend only upon a change of binary value and not the actual voltage levels associated therewith. As well known in the art, a state machine 39 can be fabricated from the matrix shown in Figure 3 using presently available devices, such as, programmable array logic PAL devices or programmable read only memory PROM devices. In the preferred embodiment, with reference to Figure 4, the latch 38 includes a six bit latch 50 and first, second and third single bit latches, 52, 54, and 56, respectively.In addition, logic gates 57 are provided to control the inputs to the single bit latches, 52, 54 and 56 The first, second and third single bit latches, 52, 54 and 56 are arranged to control access to the transmission path when synchronization is implemented. The block diagram of Figure 5 depicts one implementation of the delay generator 40 including therein a demultiplexer 58, a plurality of counters 60 and means 62 for providing a binary signal change to one input part of the state machine 39 after a preselected delay. Preferably, the demultiplexer 58 is a three line to eight line demultiplexer,The counters 60 and logic gates 62 are arranged to provide preselected time delays such as shown in the table accompanying Figure 5. The demultiplexer 58 is, effectively, a delay selection means whereby, as shown according to the table in Figure 5, the state machine 39, depending upon the states thereof introduces certain time delays between specific states. The use of the time delays to ensure synchronization is more fully discussed hereafter with respect to Figures 6A and B. The preferred method of operation is discussed hereinafter with reference to Figures 6A and 6B. This method is implemented in conjunction with the above mentioned state transition table set forth in the matrix shown in Figure 3 with the appropriate delays according to the table in Figure 5. For the following discussions the initial operating conditions assumed are the sequence shown in Figure 6A is for an apparatus lOA associated with the peripheral interface device 22 and is initially in State O i.e. a normal operating condition the sequence shown in Figure 6B is for an apparatus lOB associated with a peripheral 26 interfacing with the peripheral interface device 22 and is also initially in State 0. In addition, it will be understood that each apparatus, lOA and lOB, has a conventional line adaptation circuitry associated therewith.As more fully discussed below this circuitry is arranged to generate a reference message upon receipt of an enabling signal from the associated apparatus, 10A or lOB. Further, such devices or circuitry is well known in the art and, after performing its adaptation procedure, provides an End of Adaptation signal to the respective apparatus 10A or lOB. Such mechanisms are, in fact, well known in the art. When either apparatus, l0A or lOB, detects errors it shifts, due to a change in the binary value at, for example the EXT TRIG port of the. state machine 39, from state 0 to state 1. As indicated by the closed loop adjacent State 1, the apparatus, lOA or lOB, remains in State 1 so long as the line is not dead i.e. DEAD indicating that the line is still being transmitted on by the other party. The first apparatus, lOA or lOB, detecting the need to adapt and moving to State 1, for example State lA causes the transmitter associated with the apparatus, lOA or lOB, to be shut off via the control lines 44, 46, and 48.The fact that one of the transmitters is shut off causes errors to. be received by the other party whereupon it too recognizes the need to adapt. When both apparatus, lOA and lOB, have made the transition to States lA and lB respectively, i.e. the twisted pair or line is dead, both then shift into State 2. To prevent both apparatus lOA and lOB from entering the synchronization procedure at the identical step the input CO DS to the state machine 39 is preset, although it can be dynamically changed to indicate which apparatus, lOA or lOB, will transmit the first reference message as discussed below. The peripheral apparatus lOB associated with the peripheral 26, shown in Figure 6B, remains in State 2A so long as the line is dead i.e. the transition from State 2B to 3B can occur only if the line condition is active, or DEAD. The apparatus lOA preselected to transmit the reference message first, remains, however, in State 2A for a fixed delay Dl. At the end of that delay and if the line is dead, i.e. under the condition Cud1 , and DEAD, the apparatus lOA, as shown inFigure 6A, shifts to State 3A. However, if, while in State 2A, the line remains active, i.e.DEAD after Dl the apparatus 10A preceives this as apparatus lOB not being disabled, a transition back to State lA occurs and is maintained until the line becomes dead In this fashion, the absence of a signal, i.e. a dead line, is effectively utilized to signal the need to synchronize operation between two data transceiver devices. In State 3A the apparatus l0A enables the transmission of reference message, i.e. a predetermined data pattern and signals to the external adaptation circuitry that adaptation can be initiated As aforementioned, uppn completion of the adaptation procedure an End of Adaptation EOA message is indicated and transition from State 3A to State 4A occurs. During the same period of time the apparatus 10B remains inState 3B so long as the line is active i.e. DEAD, specifically when it is being used for synchronization purposes by the other party, i.e. lOA. During this time period the reference message enabled by lOA is received by lOB and, since the reference message is known, the reception at lOB is checked.When the line goes dead the apparatus lOB moves from State 3B to State 43. In State 4B a second time period D2 is allowed to elapse and, simultaneously, if the line is dead D2 DEAD thereafter the apparatus lOB moves to State SB. The apparatus lOA, after the End of Adaptation is indicated at State 4A, remains in state 4 so long as the line is not dead, i.e. DEAD when apparatus lOB is transmitting its reference message.After completing the reference message the apparatus lOB shifts from State 5B to State 6B where it remains until the line is deadq When the line is dead the apparatus lOB shifts to State 7B and. remains. there for a third delay time D3 after which apparatus lOB enables the associated NORMAL line 44 and normal operations are resumed. The apparatus lOA,.rema ins in State 5A for a time period slightly greater than D2, i.e. D2 , and a transition to state 6A and.is conditional upon the line being dead. If, however, after that time period the line remains dead, i.e.the condition D2 DEAD, the apparatus lOA, expecting to see the adaptation message from the apparatus lOB, shifts toState 3A where upon it begins its own synchronization sequence again. That is, if, for any reason, the apparatus lOB does not begin the reference message, apparatus 10A recognizes this as a mode to restart the synchronization procedure. Such a time delay method eliminates the possibility of the two apparatus, lOA and lOB, being out of synchronization while nevertheless appearing to be synchronized. However, upon detecting line activity, i.e. DEAD the apparatus lOA shifts toState 6A and remains thereat until a dead line is detected again. Thereafter, the apparatus lOA shifts to State 7A remaining whereat for a short time period D3 and shifts to either State 3 or State 0, depending upon whether or not a dead or active, line, is detected.If an active line is detected, i.e. DEAD, indicative that apparatus lOB is in,State 0, i.e. normal operation, the apparatus lOA also shifts to State 0 and resumes normal bidirectional operation.Alternatively, if no line activity is detected, i.e. DEAD, then the apparatus lOA returns to State 3A whereupon the adaptation, or synchronization, sequence begins again. As indicated in the key, shown in Figures 6A and 6B, the delay times are sequentially decreasing, i.e. delay time Dl is very much greater than delay time D2 which is very much greater than delay time D3 . These sequentially decreasing time delays avoid the possibility of a continuous misinterpretation of the state of the other party during the synchronization sequence. The transition delays at States 4A and 6B, are provided to allow the respective apparatus, 10A or lOB, to fully shut off, i.e to allow a settling time for the detecting or receiving, devices associated therewith. As fully discussed above, the present apparatus 10 and the associated method are advantageous because the synchronization of the line adaptation between any two devices exchanging data is performed by out of band signalling, thereby making any external synchronization line unnecessary.In addition, the synchronization occurs by the positive use of, and significance given to, a dead line in conjunction with a sequentially decreasing set of time delays transition states of the state machine 39. Although the present invention has been described herein with respect to an exemplary embodiment it will be understood that other arrangements may also be developed which are within the scope of the present invention. Consequently, the present invention is considered limited only by the attached claims and the reasonable interpretation thereof.