# PROCESS FOR OPTICALLY ISOMERIZING OPTICALLY ACTIVE ALPHA AMINO ACID AMIDES AND PROCESS FOR PRODUCING OPTICALLY ACTIVE ALPHA AMINO ACIDS

## Claims
Verfahren zur optischen Isomerisierung eines optisch aktiven α Aminosäureamids,

## Description
This invention relates to a process for optically isomerizing an optically active alpha amino acid amide and a process for producing an optically active alpha amino acid. More specifically, this invention relates to a process for optically isomerizing an optically active alpha amino acid amide, and a process for producing an L alpha amino acid including a step of optically isomerizing a D alpha amino acid amide to an L alpha amino acid amide. Hydrolysis of an alpha aminonitrile is known as a method for producing D,L alpha amino acid amides. Japanese Laid Open Patent Publication No. 17741 1983 discloses a process for producing an alpha amino acid amide which comprises hydrolyzing an alpha aminonitrile in the presence of not more than 0.01 mole, per mole of alpha aminonitrile, of a basic substance at a reaction temperature of not more than 40 US A 3 842 073 describes a method of razemizing optically active amides of aminoacids and aminolactams in the presence of a strongly anhydrous base in an anhydrous ammonia solvent. Chemical Abstracts, 102, 1985 discloses a process to synthesize L valin from D1 alpha isopropylaminoacetamide via the action of a microorganism. Physicochemical and biochemical methods have been known for the optical resolution of D,L alpha amino acids. The latter advantageously has high selectivity, and for example, the following two methods have been commercially accepted. The method 1 , however, requires the use of an expensive acylating agent, and has the defect that the step of racemizing the D N acyl alpha amino acid after separation of the L alpha amino acid is complex. The method 2 has the defect that since the hydantoin ring of the starting material is relatively stable, it is difficult to decompose with the hydrolase. On the other hand, methods have been known to produce L alpha amino acids which comprise subjecting a D,L alpha amino acid amide represented by the following formula wherein R₁ and R₂ are identical or different and each represents a hydrogen atom, a lower alkyl group, a substituted lower alkyl group, a phenyl group, a substituted phenyl group, a hydroxyl group, a carboxyl group, a carboxamide group or a mercapto group, There was also suggested a method of separating an L alpha amino acid selectively from a liquid obtained by the biochemical hydrolysis of a D,L alpha amino acid amide as above and containing the L alpha amino acid and a D alpha amino acid amide, which comprises subjecting the above liquid to ion exchange electrodialysis in the presence of ammonia see Japanese Laid Open Patent Publication No. 184053 1985 . For racemization of the D alpha amino acid amide obtained after selective separation and recovery of the L alpha amino acid, a method is known which comprises heating an optically active phenyl or substituted phenylglycine amide in a solvent in the presence of a ketone and an acid having a dissociation constant of not more than 1.3 x 10 ⁴ see Japanese Laid Open Patent Publication No. 71442 1977 . This method, however, has the defect that it requires the use of the expensive ketone and acid, the reaction time is long and by products are formed, and moreover the recovery of the alpha amino acid amide from the reaction system is complex. It is an object of this invention to provide an industrially advantageous novel process for optically isomerizing an optically active alpha amino acid amide. It is another object of this invention to provide a process for optically isomerizing an optically active alpha amino acid amide by heating it in the presence of a strongly basic compound. Still another object of this invention is to provide an industrially advantageous process for producing an L alpha amino acid, which comprises selectively hydrolyzing a D,L alpha amino acid amide by a biochemical technique to obtain an L alpha amino acid, recovering the remaining D alpha amino acid amide, heating the D alpha amino acid amide in the presence of a strongly basic compound to isomerize it optically, and recycling the optically isomerized mixture as the starting material in the hydrolyzation. Further objects and advantages of this invention will become apparent from the following description. According to this invention, these objects and advantages of the invention are achieved by a process for optically isomerizing an optically active alpha amino acid amide, which comprises heating a D alpha amino acid amide represented by the following formula 1 a wherein R represents a lower alkyl group having 1 to 4 carbon atoms which may be substituted by substituent s , a phenyl group which may be substituted by substituent s , a furyl group, a pyridyl group, a thiazolyl group, an imidazolyl group or an indolyl group, each of said substituent s being selected from the class consisting of hydroxyl, methoxy, mercapto, methyl mercapto, amino, guanyl, carboxamide, halogens, phenyl, hydroxyphenyl, imidazolyl and indolyl groups or an L alpha amino acid amide represented by the following formula 1 b wherein R is as defined for 1 a The optically active alpha amino acid amide used in the optical isomerization process or the racemization process to be referred to as the optical isomerization process of this invention is the D alpha amino acid amide of formula 1 a or the L alpha amino acid amide of formula 1 b. For practical purposes, the D alpha amino acid is preferred. In formulae 1 a and 1 b, R represents a substituted or unsubstituted lower alkyl group, a substituted or unsubstituted phenyl group, a furyl group, a pyridyl group, a thiazolyl group, an imidazolyl group or an indolyl group. The lower alkyl group may be linear or branched, and preferably has 1 to 4 carbon atoms. Examples of the unsubstituted lower alkyl group are methyl, ethyl, n propyl, isopropyl, n butyl, isobutyl, sec butyl and tert butyl. The substituent on the substituted lower alkyl group may include those known in the chemistry of amino acids, such as hydroxy, methoxy, mercapto, methylmercapto, amino, guanyl, carbaxamide, halogens e.g, chloro , phenyl, hydroxyphenyl, imidazolyl or indolyl. Examples of the substituent on the substituted phenyl group may be those given above for the substituted lower alkyl group. Examples of the amino acid amide of formulae 1 a and 1 b include alaninamide, valinamide, leucinamide, isoleucinamide, serinamide, threoninamide, cysteinamide, cystinamide, methioninamide, lysinamide, argininamide, aspartic amide, glutaminamide, phenylglycinamide, phenylalaninamide, tyrosinamide, tryptophanamide and histidinamides in D and L forms. The optical isomerizing process of this invention is carried out by heating the optically active alpha amino acid amide in the presence of a strongly basic compound. The strongly basic compound may be organic or inorganic. Organic quaternary ammonium compounds are preferably used as the organic strongly basic compound. For example, tetramethyl ammonium hydroxide, tetraethyl ammonium hydroxide and tetra n propyl ammonium hydroxide are used especially preferably. Alkali metal compound and alkaline earth metal compounds are preferably used as the inorganic strongly basic compound. Examples of particularly preferred inorganic basic compounds include hydroxides such as sodium hydroxide, potassium hydroxide, lithium hydroxide, cesium hydroxide, rubidium hydroxide and barium hydroxide, and other various basic compounds such as sodium methylate, sodium ethylate, sodium amide, sodium hydride, sodium cyanide and potassium cyanide. It is also possible to add a metal element such as lithium, sodium, potassium or barium to the reaction system, and form a strongly basic metal compound The strongly basic compound is used in an amount of preferably 0.001 to 0.5 mole, especially preferably 0.01 to 0.1 mole, per mole of the optically active alpha amino acid amide. The optical isomerization in accordance with this invention can be carried out in the presence or absence of a solvent. The use of solvent generally enables the isomerization reaction temperature to be lowered, and thus brings about the advantage that side reactions which may occur owing to high isomerization reaction temperatures can be inhibited or prevented. The reaction solvent is non reactive with the alpha amino acid amide, alpha amino acid and strongly basic compound. Examples include hydrocarbons such as gasoline, kerosene, hexane, heptane, cyclohexane, ligroin, benzene, toluene, xylene, mesitylene, cumene and cymene alcohols such as n butanol, isobutanol, n amyl alcohol and isoamyl alcohol and isobutyronitrile. The solvent is used in an amount of preferably not more than 100 parts by weight, especially preferably 1 to 20 parts by weight, per part by weight of the optically active alpha amino acid amide. The optical isomerization reaction can be carried out at a temperature of, for example, 20 to 200 Desirably, the water content of the reaction mixture is as small as possible. The advantageous water content is not more than 1 by weight, especially not more than 0.1 by weight. The reaction time varies depending mainly upon the type of the alpha amino acid amide, the type and amount of the strongly basic compound, the type and amount of the solvent, and the reaction temperature. Sometimes, a period of 1 minute suffices, and at other times a period of as long as 3 hours may be required. The D,L alpha amino acid amide or a mixture of the D alpha amino acid amide and L alpha amino acid amide one of which is present in a larger proportion than the other, which is present in the reaction mixture as obtained after the optical isomerization reaction may be separated and recovered by ordinary solid liquid separating procedures, for example by removing the solvent under reduced pressure and collecting the precipitated crystals. The optically isomerized alpha amino acid amide so obtained sometimes contains a trace of the strongly basic compound, but may be used directly as a material to be optically resolved. When it is desired to remove the trace of the strongly basic compound, an acid is added to the reaction mixture as obtained by the optical isomerization reaction to precipitate the strongly acidic compound as a salt, and then remove the salt. According to the present invention, there is also provided a process for producing an L alpha amino acid industrially advantageously by a series of steps in which the above process of this invention using the strongly basic compound for optical isomerization is applied to the optical isomerization of a D alpha amino acid amide. Specifically, the process for producing an L alpha amino acid in accordance with this invention comprises These process steps will be described below in detail. The first step is for hydrolyzing the L alpha amino acid amide by subjecting an alpha amino acid amide which is a mixture of a D isomer and an L isomer to the action of a microorganism having the ability to hydrolyze the L isomer. The starting material used in the first step is a D,L alpha amino acid amide racemic mixture or a mixture of a D alpha amino acid amide and an L alpha amino acid amide in which the D alpha amino acid amide is larger in amount than the L alpha amino acid amide. There is no particular restriction on the manufacturing method and the quality of the starting mixture. For example, the D,L alpha amino acid amide may be produced by a method which comprises esterifying a synthesized D,L alpha amino acid, and amidating the resulting D,L alpha amino acid ester with liquid ammonia, or a method comprising hydrolyzing an L alpha aminonitrile. The former is unsatisfactory in that a D,L alpha amino acid containing an L alpha amino acid, the final product of the present invention, is used as a starting material. The latter method has a noteworthy advantage in that it uses the D,L alpha aminonitrile which can be easily produced from an aldehyde, hydrocyanic acid and ammonia which are widely used as industrial materials. Hence, the latter method is preferred. A particularly recommended process falling within the category of the latter method comprises hydrolyzing a D,L alpha aminonitrile in an aqueous medium in the presence of a basic substance and a ketone, as described in JP A 17741. This process is characterized in that the amount of the basic substance, for example inorganic bases such as sodium hydroxide and potassium hydroxide and organic bases such as organic quaternary ammonium compounds, e.g., tetramethyl ammonium hydroxide is adjusted to not more than 0.01 mole per mole of D,L alpha aminonitrile a ketone such as acetone, methyl ethyl ketone, diethyl ketone, methyl isopropyl ketone or cyclohexanone is added to the reaction system so that the pH of the reaction mixture exceeds 14 and the hydrolysis reaction for producing a D,L alpha amino acid amide is carried out while maintaining the reaction temperature at not more than 40 Usually, a pH meter including a glass electrode is used for the measurement of the pH of the reaction mixture in the production of the D,L alpha amino acid amide. The pH of the reaction mixture exceeding 14 can be indirectly determined by diluting the reaction mixture with a mixture of water and ketone having the same composition ratio as the water ketone ratio in the reaction mixture, measuring the pH of the dilution by a pH meter, and adding log₁₀ dilution ratio to the measured pH value. For example, when the reaction solution is diluted to 10 times and 100 times, respectively, the pH can be obtained by adding 1 and 2 respectively to the measured values direrctly read by the pH meter. The D,L alpha aminonitrile hydrolysis reaction mixture is concentrated to remove acetone, and the resulting crude D,L alpha amino acid amide containing residue may be used as the starting D,L alpha amino acid amide in step 1 either directly or after optionally purifying it by such a means as distillation or recrystallization. The mixture containing a major amount of the D alpha amino acid amide and a minor amount of the L alpha amino acid amide which is used likewise as the starting material of step 1 will become apparent from the following description of step 3 . Preferred starting alpha amino acid amides are, for example, compounds represented by the following formula 1 wherein R represents a lower alkyl group having 1 to 4 carbon atoms which may be substituted by substituent s , a phenyl group which may be substituted by substituent s , a furyl group, a pyridyl group, a thiazolyl group, an imidazolyl group or an indolyl group, each of said substituent s being selected from the class consisting of hydroxyl, methoxy, mercapto, methyl mercapto, amino, guanyl, carboxamide, halogens, phenyl, hydroxyphenyl, imidazolyl and indolyl groups. It should be understood that the alpha amino acid amide of formula 1 is a racemic mixture of the D alpha amino acid amide of formula 1 a and the L alpha amino acid amide of formula 1 b or a mixture of these compounds in which the D isomer exists in a larger amount than the L isomer. The details of the alpha amino acid amide of formula 1 will become apparent from the description of the optically active compounds of formulae 1 a and 1 b. Microorganisms used in the biochemical hydrolysis of the D,L alpha amino acid amide or the mixture of a major amount of the D alpha amino acid amide and a minor amount of the L alpha amino acid amide are, for example, those belonging to the following genera. Typical species of these genera are given below, and it should be understood that the invention is not limited to the use of these typical examples of microorganisms. The microorganisms listed above as typical examples are known, and can be easily obtained from depositories such as Institution for Fermentation OSAKA JAPAN IFO, Japan , Institute of Applied Microbiology, University of Tokyo, Japan IAM, Japan , The American Type Culture Collection ATCC, U. S. A. , The National Collection of Industrial Bacteria NCIB, Britain , and the Northern Regional Research and Laboratory NRRL, U. S. A. . Among the above microorganisms, those of the genera Pseudomonas, Cryptococus, Lodderomyces, Rhodosporidium and Pachysolen are preferred. These microorganisms may be cultivated on media containing carbon sources and nitrogen sources which the microorganisms can assimilate and inorganic salts and nutrients which are essential to the individual microorganisms. To obtain high enzyme activity, it is effective to add a D,L alpha amino acid amide to the media in advance of cultivation. Preferably, this D,L alpha amino acid amide is one corresponding to the desired L alpha amino acid to be finally obtained. The pH of the culture during cultivation is in the range of 4 to 10, and the cultivation temperature is 20 to 50 The cultivated microorganisms are used in the reaction as the culture broth , cells such as separated cells or dried cells , or a cell treated product such as the cell debris or a purified enzyme . The cells or enzyme may be immobilized in a customary manner and then used in the reaction. Preferably, the biochemical hydrolysis reaction of step 1 using the microbial cells, the culture broth or the cell treated product is carried out while adjusting the concentration of the D,L alpha amino acid amide or the mixture of a major amount of the D alpha amino acid amide and a minor amount of the L alpha amino acid amide in the reaction mixture to 1 to 40 by weight, particularly 2 to 20 by weight, using the microorganism in an amount of 0.005 to 10 parts by weight, especially 0.01 to 1 part by weight, on a dry substrate basis, per part by weight of the starting material, and maintaining the pH at 5 to 13, particularly 7 to 11, and the reaction temperature at 20 to 70 By step 1 , the L alpha amino acid amide in the starting material is hydrolyzed to an L alpha amino acid. Hence, the reaction product of step 1 at least contains the L alpha amino acid and the D alpha amino acid amide. Thereafter, in step 2 , the L alpha amino acid is separated from the hydrolysis reaction product, and the D alpha amino acid amide is recovered. For example, the microbial cells are optionally removed from the hydrolysis reaction product by a conventional solid liquid separating means such as centrifugal separation or filtration, and the residues subjected to ion exchange electrodialysis to separate the L alpha amino acid. Furthermore, the L alpha amino acid is crystallized from the dialyzate, or the dialyzate is concentrated under reduced pressure. Then, ethanol is added to the concentrated dialyzate to precipitate the L alpha amino acid. The precipitated L alpha amino acid is collected by filtration, or can be easily separated, for example, by crystallization from the residue left after solvent extraction of the D alpha anmino acid amide to be described. The D alpha amino acid amide can be easily recovered by concentrating the residue left after separation of the L alpha amino acid from the biochemical hydrolysis reaction mixture, or by solvent extraction from the hydrolysis reaction mixture from which the microbial cells have been separated. According to the process of this invention, the whole or part of the D alpha amino acid amide recovered in step 2 is then optically isomerized in step 3 . This optical isomerization is carried out in the presence of a strongly basic compound under the same conditions as in the optical isomerization reaction of this invention described hereinabove. Step 3 thus can give a D,L alpha amino acid amide racemic mixture or a mixture of a major amount of the D alpha amino acid amide and a minor amount of the L alpha amino acid amide by the optical isomerization reaction of the D alpha amino acid amide. In step 4 of the process of this invention, the optical isomerization reaction product obtained in step 3 is recycled to step 1 , and used as part or the whole of the starting material in step 1 . The following examples illustrate the present invention more specifically. It should be understood however that the invention is in no way limited to these examples alone. A 25 ml three necked flask equipped with a stirrer, a thermometer and a reflux condenser was charged with 2 g of D phenylalaninamide, 8 g of toluene and 0.02 g of sodium hydroxide, and the mixture was stirred at 110 After the reaction, the reaction mixture was analyzed by liquid chromatography. The ratio of the remaining phenylalaninamide was 97 , and the ratio of racemization of the D phenyalaninamide was 95 . The ratio of the remaining phenylalaninamide and the ratio of racemization of the D phenylalaninamide were calculated in accordance with the following equation. Ratio of racemization of D phenylalaninamide A racemization ratio of 100 means that the amount of the L alpha amino acid amide in the racemization reaction mixture is equal to that of the D alpha amino acid amide. The above percentages are either by mole or by weight. In the following examples, the ratio of the remaining alpha amino acid amide and the ratio of racemization of the alpha amino acid amide were calculated in the same way as above. In each run, Example 1 was repeated except that each of the strongly basic substance indicated in Table 1 was used. The results are also shown in Table 1. In each run, Example 1 was repeated except that each of the solvents indicated in Table 2 was used in the amounts indicated, and the reaction temperature and time were varied as indicated in Table 2. The results are shown in Table 2. In each run, Example 1 was repeated except that 1 g of each of the D alpha amino acid amides indicated in Table 3 was used, the amounts of sodium hydroxide and toluene were changed to 0.1 g and 9 g, respectively, and the reaction time was changed to 1 hour. The results are shown in Table 3. A 500 ml three necked flask equipped with a stirrer, a thermometer and a reflux condenser was charged with 50 g of D phenylalaninamide, 200 g of toluene and 0.36 g of sodium hydroxide, and the mixture was stirred at 110 The elemental analysis values of the crystals were C65.86 by weight, H7.30 by weight, and N16.98 by weight. The crystals had a specific rotation, α 20 D, of 0 c 2, H₂O . The calculated elemental analysis values of the starting D phenylalaninamide were C65.83 by weight, H7.37 by weight, and N17.05 by weight. It had a specific rotation, α 20 D, of 18.0 c 2, H₂O . Example 24 was repeated except that L valinamide was used as the starting material. Analysis of the reaction product mixture by liquid chromatography showed that the ratio of remaining valinamide was 96 , and the ratio of racemization of L valinamide was 97 . The foregoing examples demonstrate that according to the process of this invention, optically active alpha amino acid amides can be racemized industrially advantageously, and therefore the optically active amino acid amides can be used efficiently as a material for optically active alpha amino acids. The operations of C and D were repeated three times using the D valinamide containing toluene solution recovered as above. The yield of L valine, based on the starting 1 isopropylaminoacetonitile corresponding to the newly added D,L valinamide was 95.2 to 94.8 mole , and L valine had a specific rotation, α 20 D, of 28.2 to 28.1. The operations of C and D were repeated twice using the D alaninamide containing benzene solution recovered as above. The yield of L alanine crystals based on the starting 1 methylaminoacetonitrile corresponding to the freshly added D,L alaninamide was 92.1 to 91.7 mole , and the L alanine crystals had a specific rotation, α 20 D, of 14.5 to 14.3. When the operations of C and D were repeated twice using the D phenylalaninamide containing i butanol solution recovered as above, the yield of L phenylalanine based on the starting 1 benzylaminoacetonitrile corresponding to freshly added D,L alaninamide was 94.3 to 93.7 mole , and L phenylalanine had a specific rotation, α 20 D, of 34.2 to 34.1. In each run, an L alpha amino acid was produced by repeating Example 33 except that each of the starting alpha aminoacetonitrile indicated in Table 4 was used, and Measuring conditions for α 20 D Example 35 was repeated except that 1 indolylmethylaminoacetonitrile was used as the starting alpha aminoacetonitrile, The yield of L tryptophan based on the starting material 1 indolylmethylaminoacetonitrile corresponding to D,L tryptophanamide was 93.8 to 92.7 mole , and the L tryptophan had a specific rotation, α 20 D, of 31.3 to 30.9 H₂O, c 1 . As specifically shown above, the process of this invention makes it possible to produce important L alpha amino acids such as L alanine, L valine, L leucine, L isoleucine, L serine, L threonine, L cysteine, L cystine, L methionine, L lysine, L arginine, L asparagine, L glutamine, L phenylglycine, L phenylalanine, L tyrosine, L tryptophan and L histidine easily in high yields from D,L alpha amino acid amides which can be industrially obtained easily at low cost.