# Procedure for the preparation and packaging of a long preservation baked food product.

## Abstract
A baked food product such as buns, pizzas and the like is partially precooked, sterilized and then wrapped aseptically in a sealed wrapper 2 . In this manner is obtained a long preservation product which at the time of consumption is placed in an oven for a brief completion of cooking which frees the flavourings and ensures taste and quality.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. Process for the preparation and packaging of a long preservation baked food product characterized in that it comprises partial precooking of the mixed, risen and flavoured product to obtain a precooked product 1 with a desired moisture content, sterilization of the precooked product 1 and of the wrapping 2 designed to contain it, packaging of said product 1 in said wrapping 2 under aseptic conditions such as to preserve the product 1 at said moisture content, and hermetic sealing of said wrapping 2 . 2. Process in accordance with claim 1 characterized in tat said precooking is performed for a period sufficiently long to allow completion of cooking in a brief period at the time of consumption. 3. Process in accordance with claim 2 characterized in that said brief period of cooking completion is designed to be 6 10 minutes. 4. Process in accordance with claim 1 characterized in that said precooking is performed in such a manner as to dry the precooked product to a humidity content of from 25 to 30 and said packaging is performed in such a manner as to maintain said moisture content. 5. Package with a long preservation baked food product obtained by the process in accordance with the above claims characterized in that it comprises a partially precooked and sterilized food product j and a containmenturapping 1 sterilized and sealed hermetically around said product. 6. Package in accordance with claim 5 characterized iri that said wrapping 2 consists of sheets of flexible material 3,4 impervious to gas and liquids welded together along their periphery. 7. Package in accordance with claim 6 characterized in that said wrapping 2 is filled with a gas mixture for protection of the product 1 .

## Description
Process for the preparation and packaging of a long preservation baked food product and the package thus obtained Tt present invention relates to a process for the preparation and packaging of a long preservation baked food product as well as the package obtained with said process. The daily demand for food products with a flour based dough favoured and baked in an oven such as buns, pizzas, bread and tte like is know. Said products are typical small industry products which, in particular due to problems linked with their preservation, have only approached mass industrial production and without fully satisfactory results, especially from tte quality point of vie. The products concerned are fresh, not the quick frozen foods available in trade but which have completely different costs, problems and manner of use. The object of the present invention is to realize a production process which would make it possible to prepare and pack oven baked foodstuffs having characteristics of long preservation at room temperature well suited to industrial scale production and large scale marketing as a valid alternative, even qualitatively, to corresponding smdll industry products. In accordance with the present invention said object is achieved by a process characterized in that it comprises the partial precooking of the risen and flavoured dough to obtain a precooked product with the desired degree of moisture, sterilization of the precooked product and of the rappintj designed to contain it, packing of said product in sdid wrapping under aseptic conditiorts such as to preserve said degree of moisture, and hermetic sealiny of said rapping of said product. fhe principal merit of the process in accordance with the invention lies In the fact that the food product precooked and sterilized before packing retains esentially all the original structural and organoleptic qualities, which are enhanced and offered for the consumer s enjoyment after a brief treatment in a household oven to complete cooking. Witty tfie latter operation the precooked food product is heated and diffuses the flavourings contained and duly preserved, assuring the same taste and quality as the fresh product.Selection and retention of the correct degree of moisture also make it possible for the product to be presented in the best state of softness and fragrance typical of the homemade product. Dtle to the effect of sterilization and aseptic packaging to which it is subjected the food product, buns, pizzas, etc. lends itself well to industrial scale production thereof and subsequent large scale marketing without problems of organoleptic decay of the product. The period of preservation at room temperature is believed to be two months as compared with a very few days for ordinal small industry products. To provide an example a detailed description will now be yiven of the various steps of the process in accordance with the invention for preparation and packaging of a baked product such as buns, in particular a Cenoa stflc focaccia fillictl, at title end of the process, appears for marketing in the condition illustrated in the annexed drawings wherein fig. 1 shows a top view of the packaged food product, and Fig. 2 shows a sectional view of the packaged product along plane of cut Il Il of fig. 1. following thc above process, first are prepared the ingredients which, in the case of the Cenoese bun, are flour, potato flakes, beer yeast, salt, olive oil, lard and rosemary. The flour, potato flakes and beer yeast are kneaded witti water to provide a thick but elastic mass which is divided in individual spherical portions. After the necessary rising period e.g. 30 60 minutes each portion is flattened and widened to assume the desired final shape, which is substantially that of a disk of appropriate size. The raw product thus obtained is then flavoured with oil, salt and other flavourings even garnished for other kinds of buns or pizzas and placed in an oven for precooking. Said precooking will last long enough to predetermine an optimal time for completion of cooking by the consumer. Said optimal time being 6 10 minutes in a normal domestic oven at 2500C, the period of precooking for a Cenoese bun may be for example 10 20 minutes in an oven the temperature of which is 200 250 C. The product is designed in such a manner that after precooking its desired moisture content is for example from 24 to 30 . lhe precooked product removed from te oven is subsequently heat sterilized in such a manner as to give it good preservability characteristics at room temperature.Essentially, the product is made in such a manner as not to contain mould or other microorganisms capable of developing in that particular product. Retention of the aforesaid moisture content is also assured. The product is now ready for aseptic packaging in a bag type wrapping welch is then subjected to vacuum treat merit, filled with a protective gas mixture, and finally sealed along its edyes. Tie appearance of the finished and packaged product ready for distribution and sale is as illustrated in Figs. 1 and 2, i.e. a partially precooked and sterilized food product 1 a Genoese bun in the example considered is placed inside a bag type wrapping 2 formed of two mated flexible impermeable polyethylene sheets 3 internal and aluminium sheets external united with each other by a pair of peripheral weld lines 5 and 6. Each of said mated pairs of sheets may also include another sheet of flexible plastic material 7 e.g. polyester designed to support informative and advertising inscriptions and illustrations.