# Method of preparing 3,3 dinitrodiphenyl ether.

## Abstract
This invention is a method for preparing 3,3 dinitro diphenylether by use of m dinitrobenzene as a raw material. Namely, 3,3 dinitrodiphenylether is prepared by a conden sation reaction of m dinitrobenzene with m nitrophenol in dipolar aprotic solvents in the presence of a base, or a self condensation reaction of m dinitrobenzene in the dipo lar aprotic solvents in the presence of nitrite or in the presence of m nitrophenol and the base.

## Claims
CLAIMS What we claim is 1 A method for preparing 3,3 dinitrodiphenylether which comprises conducting a condensation reaction of m dinitrobenzene in a dipolar aprotic solvent. 2 The method of claim 1 wherein m dinitrobenzene conducts a selfcondensation reaction in said dipolar aprotic solvent in the presence of a catalytic amount of nitrite. 3 The method of claim 1 wherein m dinitrobenzene conducts a selfcondensation reaction in said dipolar aprotic solvent in the presence of a catalytic amount of m nitrophenol and a base. 4 The method of claim 1 wherein m dinitrobenzene conducts said condensation reaction in said dipolar aprotic solvent in the presence of m nitrophenol and a base. 5 The method of claim l, claim 2, claim 3 or claim 4 wherein said dipolar aprotic soivent is N,N dimethylformamide, 1, 3 dimethyl 2imidazolidinone or hexamethylphosphoramide. 6 The method of claim 1, claim 2, claim 3 or claim 4 wherein the temperature of said reaction is 130 200 C. 7 The method of claim 2 wherein said catalytic amount of nitrite is 0.1 2 times by mol of m dinitrobenzene.

## Description
METHOD OF PREPARING 3,3 DINITRODIPHENyLETHER The present invention relates to a method for preparing 3,3 dinitrodiphenylether which comprises a condensation reaction of mdinitrobenzene in dipolar aprotic solvents. More particularly, this invention relates to a method for preparing 3,3 dinitrodiphenylether by the condensation reaction of m dinitrobenzene with m nitrophenol in the dipolar aprotic solvents in the presence of the base, or by the self condensation reaction of m dinitrobenzene in the dipolar aprotic solvents in the presence of catalytic amounts of nitrite or catalytic amounts of m nitrophenol and the base. Description of the Prior Art 3,3 Dinitrodiphenylether is a raw material for agricultural chemicals and medicines as well as an intermediate for 3,3 diaminodiphenylether which is a raw material of polyamide, polyamide imide and polyimide. 3,3 Dinitrodiphenylether is so far known to be prepared by the Ullmann e reaction of m nitrophenol and m bromonitrobenzene Tomita et al., J. of the Pharmaceutical Soc. Japan, 75, 1080 1955 Ikawa et al., ibid 79, 273 1959 J.P. Critchley et al., J. PolymerSci., Part A l, 10, 1793 1972 . These methods, however, have drawbacks such as low yields or accompanied danger of explosion. In addition, the largest disadvantage is the high price and uneasy availability of raw materials for industrial application. The object of this invention is to provide a cheap and industrially applicable method of preparing 3,3 dinitrodiphenylether. A hard research effort was conducted by the inventors of this invention to achieve above object. Unexpectedly, a new fact was found that 3,31 dinitrodiphenylether could be derived from cheaply producible m dinitrobenzene as the raw material. Benzene derivatives having a pair of meta located electronwithdrawing groups are generally known to have a low activity for nucleophilic displacement reaction. As to the reactions of dinitrobenzene, examples are known only on their reaction with following alcohols, These examples are 1 m Nitroanisole was obtained by reacting m dinitrobenzene with sodium methoxide in hexamethylphosphoramide N, Kornblum et al., J.Org. Chem., 41, 1560 64 1976 . 2 m Nitroanisole was obtained by reacting m dinitrobenzene with sodium methoxide in chlorobenzene in the presence of phase transfer catalysts F. Montana et al., Chem. Ind. 19, 412 1982 . 3 m Nitrophenyl alkyl ethers were obtained by reacting mdinitrobenzene with alcohols in the dipolar aprotic solvents in the presence of carbonate or hydrogen carbonate of alkali metal or trialkali metal phosphate Kuroda et al., TOKKAISHO 58 180461, 59 25353 . In the present invention m dinitrobenzene was studied to apply for the raw material of reacting with phenols which had, in the past, been assumed unreactive and rarely been examined, On reacting with m nitrophenol, it has been found that condensation of alkali metal m nitrophenolate with m dinitrobenzene proceeds in the dipolar aprotic solvents in the presence of the base and then generated nitrite leads in turn to a self condensation reaction of m dinitrobenzene. It has also been found in accordance with this reaction that 3,3 dinitrodiphenylether can be prepared by the self condensation reaction of m dinitrobenzene in the dipolar aprotic solvents in the presence of the catalytic amounts of nitrite or the catalytic amounts of m nitrophenol and the base. It is quite unknown that m dinitrobenzene can perform above self condensation reaction in the presence of nitrite. In addition, the examples are known on the self condensation method of aromatic nitro compounds. These examples are 1 4,4 Oxybis N methylphthalimide is prepared from 4 nitro Nmethylphthalimide R. J. Markezich et al., J. Org. Chem., 42, 3431 34 1977 . 2 4,4W I icyanodiphenylether is prepared from 4 nitrobenzonitrile E. Heinz et al., Ger. Offen., 2,037,781 . These examples, however, are related to those compounds having electron withdrawing groups at p position. And as to those compounds substituted at m position as the method of this invention, examples are not hnown. Accordingly, methods are quite unknown which can advantageously prepare diphenylether derivatives by the self condensation reaction of m dinitrobenzene or the condensation reaction of m dinitrobenzene with phenols. I A method for preparing 4,4 dinitrodiphenylether by reacting p chloronitrobenzene with sodium nitrite in N methylpyrrolidone and preparing 4,4 dicyanodiphenylether from p nitrobenzonitrile and pchlorobenzonitrile under the same conditions Ger. Of fen., 2, 037, 781 . 2 A method for preparing 2,2 dinitrodiphenylether by reacting o nitrofluorobenzene with potassium hydrogen carbonate in N,N dimethylacetamide in the presence of the phase transfer catalysts J. Org. Chem., 49t 1125 1984 . 3 A method for preparing 4,4 oxybis N methylphthalimide by reacting 4 nitro N methylphthalimide or 4 fluoro N methylphthalimide with potassium nitrite in the dipolar aprotic solvents J. Org. Chem., 42, 3431 1977 . The present invention is the method for preparing 3,3 dinitrodiphenylether by the condensation reaction of m dinitrobenzene in the dipolar aprotic solvents in the presence of nitrite or in the presence of m nitrophenol and the base. In the reaction by the method of this invention, m dinitrobenzene is considered to conduct the condensation reaction with mnitrophenol anion which is intermediately formed in the reaction of m dinitrobenzene with nitrite or from m nitrophenol and the base. According to the method of this invention, a valuable compound, 3,3 dinitrodiphenylether, can be prepared from the very cheap raw materials, m dinitrobenzene and nitrite or m nitrophenol. Nitrite is sufficient in the catalytic amounts. m Nitrophenol may be used in the catalytic amounts to carry out self condensation of m dinitrobenzene with nitrite formed, or in about the equivalent quantity of m dinitrobenzene to conduct the condensation reaction. The method of this invention is prominent in the conversion ratio and selectivity to the desired products, easy to purify, and capable of providing high purity products in good yields. Therefore, the method of this invention is very excellent in the industrial production of 3,3 dinitrodiphenylether. m Dinitrobenzene, the raw material for use in the present invention, can be commercially and inexpensively prepared by the dinitration of benzene. In one embodiment of the method of this invention, preferable nitrite in use for the condensation reaction of m dinitrobenzene with the catalytic amounts of nitrite includes potassium nitrite, sodium nitrite, calcium nitrite, magnesium nitrite, lithium nitrite, barium nitrite, and ammonium nitrite. Nitrite of other metals can also be applied. The quantity in use of the nitrite is 0.01 5 times by mol, preferably 0.1 2 times by mol of m dinitrobenzene. In another embodiment of the method of this invention, m nitrophenol may be used in the catalytic amounts to more than equivalent quantity in order to carry out the condensation reaction of m nitrophenol with the base. The preferred quantity of m nitrophenol applied is in the range of 0.05 1.2 times by mol of mdinitrobenzene, and a half mol or less is enough when the catalytic amounts are used. The base simultaneously used in the latter embodiment includes alkali metal carbonate, hydrogen carbonate, hydroxide and alkoxide, and includes, for example, potassium carbonate, sodium carbonate, potassium hydrogen carbonate, potassium hydroxide, sodium hydroxide, lithium hydroxide, sodium methoxide, and potassium isopropoxide. The quantity of the base used is satisfactorily one equivalent or more of m nitrophenol, normally in the range of 1 10 equivalents, and preferably 1 2 equivalents. The solvents in use for the method of this invention are dipolar aprotic solvents, which include for example, 1,3 dimethyl 2imidazolidinone, hexamethylphosphoramide, N,N dimethylacetamide, N, N dimethylformamide, N methylpyrrolidone, dimethylsulfoxide and sulfolane. Preferably used are 1,3 dimethyl 2 imidazolldinone, hexamethylphosphoramide and N,N dimethylformamide. The quantity of these solvents applied is not limited in particular, and normally 1 15 times, preferably 3 10 times by weight of the raw materials. Besides in the method of this invention, the catalysts which may be used to accerelate the reaction include copper compounds and the phase transfer catalysts such as crown ether, polyethylene glycol, quaternary ammonium salts or quaternary phosphonium salts. In the method of this invention, reaction temperatures are normally in the range of 100 2400C, and preferably in the range of 130 200 C, In the normal embodiment of the method of this invention, the self condensation reaction by use of nitrite is carried out at the specified temperatures after raising the temperatures of all materials containing nitrite. The condensation reaction by use of m nitrophenol and the base is conducted by charging the specified quantity of m nitrophenol, the base and the solvents to form alkali metal salt of m nitrophenol before adding m dinitrobenzene. This reaction may also be performed by simultaneously charging all the materials which have previously contained m dinitrobenzene and raising the temperature. The method is of course not limited in these procedures and other embodiments may suitably be applied. Regarding the procedures for removing water generated in the reaction system, there is a process for gradually discharging water out of the system during reaction by introducing a stream of nitrogen gas. But generally, very often employed is the process for azeotropically removing water from the reaction system with a small quantity of solvents such as, for example1 benzene, toluene, xylene and chlordbenzene. The end point of reaction can be determined by observing the decrease of raw materials with thin layer chromatography, high performance chromatography or gas chromatography. After ending the reaction, the resulting mixture is concentrated or as it is, and poured into water to separate crude 3,3 dinitrodiphenylether. The crude product can easily be purified by recrystallizing from the solvents. EXAMPLES The invention will be illustrated further with respect to the following Examples.Example 1 A reaction vessel with a stirrer, thermometer, and reflux condenser was charged with 84 grams 0.5 mol of m dinitrobenzene, 55.2 grams 0.8 mol of sodium nitrite and 450 ml of 1,3 dimethyl 2 imidazolidinone. The mixture was heated with stirring in a nitrogen atmosphere. The temperature was raised to 170 1800C and then kept constant for 18 hours to complete the reaction. The resultant reaction mixture was then poured in 2 1 of water to separate brown solids. The precipitate was filtered, dried and recrystallized from benzene to obtain 36.6 gram6 of 3,3 dinitrodiphenylether 56.3 yield . Further recrystallization from cyclohexane gave pale brown prisms of pure product having a melting point of 126 1280C. Results of elementary analysis were as follows. Elementary analysis C12H8O5N2 C H N Calculated z 55.39 3.10 10.77 Found 55.11 2.96 10.62Example 2 The same reaction vessel as Example 1 was equipped with a water separator and charged with 84 grams 0.5 mol of m dinitrobenzene, 30 grams 0.2 mol of calcium nitrite monohydrate, 50 ml of benzene and 300 ml of hexamethylphosphoramide. The temperature of the mixture was raised with stirring in a nitrogen atmosphere.Azeotropically distilled water in the refluxing conditions of benezene was removed from the reaction system by the water separator. After completing the.azeotropic dehydration, the temperature of the resultant mixture. was gradually raised to 175 1800C while distilling off benzene, and kept constant for 8 hours to complete the reaction.After ending the reaction, the reaction mixture was filtered to remove inorganic salts and the like, followed by concentrating in a vacuum to recover solvents. Residual tarry material was poured into 500 ml of water and stayed under continuous stirring to change into small agglomerates of brown crystals. The agglomerates were filtered, dried and recrystallized from benzene to obtain 40.5 grams 62.3 yield of 3,3 dinitrodiphenylether.Example 3 The procedure of Example 1 was repeated except 9 grams of potassium nitrite and 0.9 gram of 18 crown 6 ether catalyst were used in place of sodium nitrite. 37.5 Grams of 3,3 dinitrodiphenylether were obtained 57.7Z yield .Example 4 The procedure of Example 1 was repeated except 63.7 grams of barium nitrite were used in place of sodium nitrite to obtain 36.7 grams 61 yield of 3,3 dinitrodiphenylether.Example 5 A reaction vessel with a stirrer, thermometer, reflux condenser and water separator was charged with 7.0 grams 0.05 mol of m nitrophenol, 2.92 grams 0.05 mol of 96 potassium hydroxide, 30 ml of benzene and 500 ml of 1,3 dimethyl 2 imidazotidinone. The mixture was warmed with stirring to remove azeotropically distilled water from the reaction system under the ref fluxing conditions of benzene. After completing the azeotropic dehydration, the temperature was reduced to 600C and 84 grams 0.5 mol of m dinitrobenzene were added. The temperature was then raised in a nitrogen atmosphere and the reaction was carried out at 170 1800C for 18 hours. After ending the reaction, the resultant mixture was concentrated in a vacuum to recover solvents. Residual tarry material was poured into 500 ml of water and stayed under continuous stirring to change into small agglomerates of brown crystals. The agglomerates were filtered, dried and recrystallized from benzene to obtain 39.2 grams 54.8 yield of 3,3 dinitrodiphenylether. Pale brown prisms of pure product were obtained by recrystallizing from ethylacetate. The prisms had a melting point of 127 1280C and results of elementary analysis were as follows. Elementary analysis C12H805N2 C H N Calculated 55.39 3.10 10.77 Found 55.12 3.31 10.71Example 6 A reaction vessel with a stirrer and thermometer was charged with 20.9 grams 0.15 mol of m nitrophenol, 84 grams 0.5 mol of mdinitrobenzene, 13.8 grams 0.1 mol of anhydrous potassium carbonate 0.3 gram of copper powder and 350 ml of hexamethylphosphramide. The mixture was heated with stirring in 8 nitrogen atmosphere and reacted at 180. 190 C for 8 hours to complete the reaction. After ending the reaction, the resultant reaction mixture was treated as Example 5 and 57.6 grams 63.6 yield of 3,3 dinitrodiphenylether were obtained.Example 7 The procedure of Example 5 was repeated except 2.7 grams 0.05 mol of sodium methoxide were used in place of potassium hydroxide and generated methanol was azeotropically distilled off with benzene. 39.7Grams 55.5 yield of 3.3 dinitrodiphenylether were obtained.Example 8 The procedure of Example 6 was repeated except 10.6 grams 0.1 mol of sodium carbonate were used in place of anhydrous potassium carbonate, and 50.3 grams 59.5 yield of 3,3 dinitrodiphenylether were obtained.Example 9 The same vessel as Example 5 was charged with 20.9 grams 0.15 mol of m nitrophenol, 6 grams 0.15 mol of sodium hydroxide, 30 ml of benzene and 500 ml of N, ,N dimethylformamide. The mixture was warmed with stirring to remove azeotropically distilled water from the reaction system under the refluxing conditions of benzene. After completing the azeotropic dehydration, the temperature was reduced to 60 C and 84 grams 0.5 mol of m dinitrobenzene were added. The same procedure was thereafter repeated as Example 5 and 34.8 grams 41.2Z yield of 3,31 dinitrodiphenylether were obtained. Example 10 A 2 1 separable flask with a stirrer, thermometer, reflux condenser and water separator was charged with 139.1 grams 1 mol of m nitrophenol, 58,4grams 1 mol of 96 potassium hydroxide, 100 ml of benzene and 1,000 ml of N,N dimethylfQrmamide. The mixture was warmed with stirring to remove azeotropically distilled water from the reaction system under the refluxing conditions of benzene. After completing the azeotropic dehydration, the temperture was reduced to 60 C, and 168.1 grams 1 mol of m dinitrobenzene and 3.2 grams of copper powder were added. The temperature in the flask was then raised in a nitrogen atmosphere and the reaction was carried out for 10 hours at 150 153 C. After ending the reaction, the resultant mixture was filtered to remove inorganic salts and the like and concentrated in a vacuum to recover solvents. The residual tarry material was poured into 2,000 ml of water and stayed under continuous stirring to obtain small agglomerates of brown crystals. The agglomerates were filtered, dried and recrystallized from benzene to obtain 183.5 grams 70.6 yield of 3,3 dinitrodiphenylether. The purity of the product was 97 based on gas chromatography. The product was further recrystallized from a solvent mixture of benzene and alcohol, and purified product was obtained as pale brown prisms having a melting point of 127 1280C.Results of elementary analysis were as follows. Elementary analysis C12H8O5N2 C H H Calculated X 55.39 3.10 10.77 Found . 55.6 3.02 10.44Example 11 A 2 1 separable flask with a stirrer, thermometer, reflux condenser and water separator was charged with 146 grams 1.05 mol of m nitrophenol, 83 grams 0.6 mol of anhydrous potassium carbonate, 168.1 grams 1.0 mol of m dinitrobenzene and 1,500 ml of 1,3 dimethyl2 imidazolidinone. The reaction was carried out at 170 1750C for 5 hours. After ending the reaction, the resultant mixture was poured into 5 1 of water. Crude 3,3 dinitrodiphenylether was obtained by filtering separated small brown agglomerates. The yield was 231 grams and the purity was 89 based on gas chromatography.Example 12 The procedure of Example 10 was repeated except hexamethylphosphoramide was used in place of N,N dimethylformamide, and gave 210.9 grams 81.1 yield of 3,3 dinitrodiphenylether having the purity of 98.2 Example 13 The same equipment as Example 10 was charged with 139.1 grams 1 mol of m nitrophenol, 54 grams 1 mol of sodium methoxide and 1,000 ml of N,N dimethylacetamide. The mixture was heated under a stream of nitrogen gas and generated methanol was distilled off. The resultant reaction mixture was then cooled, and 168.1 grams 1 mol of m dinitrobenzene and 3.2 grams of copper powder were added, followed by reacting at 155 1600C for 14 hours. After ending the reaction, the aftertreatement of Example 10 was repeated to obtain 146 grams 56.1 yield of 3,3 dinitrodiphenylether.Example 14 The same procedure as Example 10 was repeated except 40 grams 1 mol . of sodium hydroxide and 1,200 ml of N methylpyrrolidone were used in place of potassium hydroxide and N,N dimethylformamide respectively and the reaction was carried out at 160 1700C for 18 hours. 131.5 Grams 50.5 yield of 3,3 dinitrodiphenylether were obtained.