# Process and device for knitting proteinaceous patties.

## Abstract
A first proteinaceous patty 12 is contacted with a second proteinaceous patty 14 and in the area of contact projections 32 are inserted through the first patty 12 and at least halfway into the second patty 14 . The apparatus comprises a holding means 18 for maintaining the shape of the patties 12,14 during knitting and a knitting plate 26 containing a plurality of projections 32 . The plate 26 is movably connected to the holding means 12 permitting movement of the projections 12,14 through a first patty 12 and at least halfway through a second patty 14 . An ejection means 44 is also provided which is movably attached to the knitting plate 26 permit ting removal of the knitting meat patties 12,14 .

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A process for knitting proteinaceous patties together which comprises placing a first proteinaceous patty in contact with a second proteinaceous patty and inserting at the contact area projections through the first patty and at least halfway into the second patty. 2. A process according to claim 1 wherein the proteinaceous material is selected from the group consisting of ground beef, pork, turkey, chicken and texturized vegetable protein. 3. A process according to claim lor 2 further comprising a condiment between the patties. 4. A process according to claim 3 wherein the condiment is selected from the group consisting of sauces, spices, cheeses, and vegetables. 5. A process according to any preceding claim wherein the patties are round or square shape. 6. A process according to any preceding claim wherein the projections are round, rectangular, rectangular with rounded edges or oval shaped. 7. A process according to any preceding claim wherein the projections are 1 16 of an inch 1.59mum to 3 8 of an inch 9.5mm in diameter. 8. A process according to any preceding claim wherein the projections are tapered from two to ten degrees from their center line. 9. A process according to any preceding claim wherein the projections are inserted around the periphery of the patties. 10. A process according to any preceding claim wherein the projections are not greater than 3 8 of an inch 9.5ruin apart. 11. A process according to claim 10 wherein the projections are not greater than of an inch 6.35mn apart. 12. An apparatus for knitting layers of proteinaceous patties together which comprises a holding means for maintaining the shape of the patties during knitting a projection plate containing a piurity of projections, said plate movably connected to the holding. means permitting movement of the p rojeCtions through a first patty and at least hÅaISway through a second patty and an ejection means for removing the knitted patties from the projections. 13. An apparatus according to claim 12 wherein the holding means is a circular tube. 14. An apparatus according to claim 12 further comprising handles to be grasped by an operator. 15. An apparatus according to any preceding claim wherein the projection plate comprises a plurality of periphery projections and a cavity section. 16. An apparatus according to claim 15 wherein the cavity section further comprises center projections. 17. An apparatus according to claim 14 wherein the ejection means further comprises an ejection handle, ejection bars and a connection bar in contact with the ejection handle and connected to the ejection bars. 18. An apparatus according to claim 17 wherein the ejection handle is pivotally mounted to the manual holding means. 19. An apparatus according to claim 18 wherein the ejection means further comprises a spring in contact with the connection bar, said spring urging the connection bar in an upward direction.

## Description
PROCESS AND DEVICE FOR KNITTING PROTEINACEOUS PATTIESFIELD OF THE INVENTION This invention relates to a device and a process for knitting proteinaceous patties together wherein a first meat patty is contacted with a second meat patty and condiments are placed between the patties.Projections are inserted through one patty and at least halfway through the second patty to knit the patties together.DESCRIPTION OF THE PRIOR ART There have been attempts at preparing hamburgers wherein condiments are inserted inside the hamburger cavities. For example, U.S. Patent 3,909,881 toAnderson pertains to a hamburger having a hollow cavity extending through the side of the hamburger and is adapted to receiving condiments after cooking.The method of preparing the hamburger comprises stuffing hamburger meat into a mold, inserting a tin foil type packet into the hamburger meat through a side and packaging the formed hamburger for storage and sale. The hamburger is cooked in the normal manner after which the tin foil is removed from the packet of the cooked hamburger and condiments are inserted into the cavity. This reference makes no attempt to knit hamburger patties together. U.S. Patent 2,937,092 to Zitin pertains to a method and apparatus for making a combined meat and cheese product in which the cheese portion is completely surrounded by the meat. This is accomplished by molding meat with a hole in the center and then pouring the cheese into the molded hole.This invention does not relate to knitting meat patties together. U.S. Patent 3,999,248 to Mauer et al. is directed to an apparatus and method for knitting proteinaceous fragments into a unified mass. The method includes the steps of accumulating the meat fragments into a wad and then knitting the wad to form a unified proteinaceous patty. There is no attempt, however, to put a condiment inside of these patties. In non meat areas U.S. Patent 2744,476 toSuzuki pertains to a device for pie edge crimping and trimming. In this patent a means for crimping the edges of pie dough together is described, but this patent does not pertain to knitting the pieces together. U.S. Patent 4,430,053 to Launay is another device for crimping pies or tarts but a knitting device is not disclosed. In a non food area U.S.Patent 3,552,711 to DeLaney et al. describes the use of intermittent teeth to cut and seal laminations.Again, a knitting device is not described.BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS Figure 1 is a perspective view of a knitting apparatus. Figure 2 is a cross sectional view along 2 2 of figure 1. Figure 3 is a cross sectional view showing the first stage of the knitting action. Figure 4 is a cross sectional view showing the completion of the knitting action. Figure 5 is a perspective view of the knitting apparatus. Figure 6 is a cross sectional view showing the first stage of the ejection action. Figure 7 is a cross sectional view of figure 5 showing the completed ejection action. Figure 8 is a bottom plane view of the projection plate. Figure 9 is a partial cross sectional view from figure 6. SUMMRY OF THE INVENTION This invention pertains to a device for knitting proteinaceous patties together which comprises placing a first proteinaceous patty in contact with a second proteinaceous patty and inserting in the area of contact projections through one patty and at least halfway through into the second patty. An apparatus is also described for knitting layers of proteinaceous patties together which comprises a holding means for maintaining the shape of the proteinaceous patties together during knitting and a knitting plate containing a plurality of projections. The knitting plate is movably connected to the holding means permitting movement of projections through the first patty and at least halfway through a second patty. An ejection means for removing the knitted patties from the apparatus is also provided. When this invention is employed, two proteinaceous patties with a condiment inserted between them are knitted together so that the patties hold together during cooking. Gases or juices from the condiment do not escape through the patties. DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION According to the present invention proteinaceous patties are first prepared which may be of any suitable proteinaceous material such as meats or vegetables. Suitable meats are ground beef, pork, turkey and chicken. A suitable vegetable is texturized vegetable protein. The patties are generally about three to four inches 76.2mm to 101.6mn in diameter and approximately a inch 6.35mn thick. However, other diameters and thicesses may be employed. The patties may be of any shape such as round, square or fanciful shapes. A first patty is placed on a level surface and a condiment is then added to the center of the patty. The condiment may be of a variety of materials such as sauces, spices, cheeses, vegetables, etc.Next, a second patty is positioned over the condiment and above the first patty. The periphery of each patty are permitted to contact. In order to knit the patties together projections are inserted into the periphery of the patties. The projections must protrude through the first patty and at least half way Into the second patty. Preferably the projections do not go all the way through the second patty. The projections may be of any shape such as round, rectangular, oval or rectangular with rounded edges.It is preferred that the projections be of a rectangular shape or rectangular shape with rounded edges so that the indentations will approximate the look of a cube steak. For cosmetic reasons slight indentations may be placed into the surface of the center of the second patty to give a uniform cubed steak look to the patty. The projections should be approximately a sixteenth to thee eighths of an inch 1.59mn to 9 5mm in diartter along the widest portion that will be insert into the proteinaceous material. Preferably the projections will have a side wall taper resulting in the thinnest cross sectional area at the point which first is inserted into the meat. The taper angle suitably is from about two to ten degrees based on the center line of the projection. It has been found that the distance between the projections should not be greater than three eighths of an inch 9.5mn and preferably are not greater than one quarter inch 6.35mn to prevent condiment juices from extruding through the knitted patty during cooking. Now referring to the figures, device 10 is shown which is suitable for performing a knitting operation. As can be seen in figure 2 first patty 12 is placed under second patty 14 with a condiment 16 inserted between the patties generally shown as 24. The knitting operation commences with an operator manually holding handles 20 and 22 and placing device 10 over the condiment filled patties 24. Handles 20 and 22 are connected to projection plate 26 by means of first connection bar 23. As the operator places device 10 over patties 24, skirt 18 which is comprised of a circular tube, surrounds patties 24.Skirt 18 is connected to cross beam 25 which is connected to upright beam 27. Upright beam 27 slidably contacts first connecting bar 23 at point 29 and slidably contacts second connection bar 40 at point 31. Skirt 18 is also slidably connected to projection plate 26 at points 28 and 30. As the operator continues to press down on handles 20 and 22, periphery projections 32 of project plate 26 move downward and through patty 14 and at least halfway through patty 12. Skirt 18 maintains the shape. of the patty during the penetration. The downward travel of projection plate 26 is limited by stop 34 in skirt 18. Protection plate 26 also has cavity section 19 containing center projections 36 which partially penetrate the center of patty 14 for cosmetic affects. Figure 8 illustrates a pattern of periphery projections 32 and center projection 36. After the penetration action has been completed as. sh.own in figure 4, the patties have been knitted together and must be ejected from device 10. To accomplish this the operator lifts handles 20 and 22 and simultaneously squeezes on ejection handle 38 as shown in figure 6. As ejection handle 38 moves up, second connection bar 40 which is urged against spring 42 moves downward. The downward movement of second connection bar 40 also causes the downward movement of ejection bars 44 which effects the seuwation of patties 24 from projection plate 26 and thus removes the patties from device 10. Ejection bars 44 passes through projection plate 26 by means of slots 46 in the projection plate. Slots 46 must be sufficiently wider than ejection bars 44 to allow air to pass through the slots while the patties are being ejected or a vacuum will be created. As the operator releases. ejection handle 38, spring 42 urges. connection bar 40 and ejection bars 44 upward thus readying the device for knitting another pair of patties. While the above describes embodiments of the present invention it is to be understood the invention is not to be limited to these embodiments.