# Sterilising solutions.

## Abstract
The invention provides a sterilising composition con taining a dialdehyde, particularly glutaraldehyde, as a spor icidal and bactericidal agent. The composition has an acidic pH to maximise shelf life and contains potentiating com pounds, particularly magnesium ions, to render the di aldehyde sporicidal at acidic pH.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A sterilising composition comprising an n alkanecc, Q dicarboxyaldehyde containing from 3 to 6 carbon atoms or an adduct of such a compound and a lower alkanol containing from one to three carbon atoms characterised in that the pH of the composition is less than 7 thereby enhancing the shelf life of the composition potentiating compounds are included to potentiate the sterilising activity of the n alkaneo, Q dicarboxyaldehyde at acidic pH and that a pH indicator is included to show by colour change when the pH of the composition has risen sufficiently to affect its shelf life and potency. 2. A sterilising composition as claimed in claim 1 in which the dicarboxyaldehyde is glutaraldehyde. 3. A sterilising composition as claimed in claim 1 or claim 2 in which the lower alkanol is isopropanol. 4. A sterilising composition as claimed in any preceding claim in which the potentiating compound comprises a source of magnesium ions. 5. A sterilising composition as claimed in any preceding claim in which the potentiating compound includes a non ionic surfactant of the polyethoxyethanol group. 6. A sterilising composition as claimed in any preceding claim supplied as a one part sterilising solution, not requiring dilution or potentiation before use.

## Description
STERILISING SOLUTIQNS This invention relates to improved chemical sterilising compositions, and is particularly related to sterilising compositions containing a dialdehyde as a sporicidal and bactericidal agent. United Kingdom Patent Specifications Nos. 992813 and 992814 disclose sterilising solutions comprising an n alkane cs Q dicarboxyaldehyde containing from 3 to 6 carbon atoms a lower alkanol containing from 1 to 3 carbon atoms and an alkalinating agent to ensure that the pH of the solution is above 7.4. It is stated in these Patent Specifications that the pH has to be above 7.4 to obtain effective sterilising action. However at alkaline pH polymerisation of the dicarboxyaldehydes occurs leading to a deterioration of the solutions and loss of sterilising activity. A widely used chemical sterilising agent is an alkaline buffered 2 glutaraldehyde solution. Such alkaline glutaraldehyde solutions have very effective sporicidal activity at room temperature, however they are not stable and have a short effective life. Acidic glutaraldehyde solutions have better stability but are not ordinarily sporicidal at room temperature. A compromise between stability and sporicidal activity is given by the currently known commercial compositions which are sold as two part products, one part being a slightly acidic composition of glutaraldehyde and an alkanol the other part being an alkalinating agent such as sodium bicarbonate.For use these parts are mixed and diluted in water to give a 2 glutaraldehyde solution on a weight to volume basis . This resulting solution has a limited working life, generally of 2 3 weeks, before polymerisation of the glutaraldehyde makes the solution ineffective. In some commercial compositions phenol is added to increase low pH sporicidal effectiveness at pH between 7.0 and 7.4 and yet have extra stability. However use of phenol is undesirable on safety grounds, phenol being toxic by skin absorbance, ingestion or inhalationt not entirely effective against bacterial spores or viruses and being inactivated by proteinaceous matter. The applicants have aimed to overcome the above mentioned disadvantages of the prior art. Accordingly the present invention provides a sterilising composition comprising an n alkaneg, n dicarboxyaldehyde containing from 3 to 6 carbon atoms or an adduct of such a compound and a lower alkanol containing from one to three carbon atoms characterised in that the pH of the composition is less than 7 thereby enhancing the shelf life of the composition potentiating compounds are included to potentiate the sterilising activity of the n alkaneo , fl dicarboxyaldehyde at acidic pH and that a pH indicator is included to show by colour change when the pH of the composition has risen sufficiently to affect its shelf life and potency. Advantageously thepH of the solution is buffered and the potentiating compounds comprise a non ionic surfactant of the polyethoxyethanol group and a source of magnesium ions to act on the cell wall of microorganisms thereby facilitating penetration by the dicarboxyaldehyde. An advantage of such sterilising compositions is that they can be produced as a one part sterilising solution having a shelf life of the order of two years and not requiring preparation for use. The sterilising solution is capable of dilution to a disinfecting concentration to give a disinfectant having a working life time of up to 4 weeks. The working life time of the disinfectant depends critically on both whether the water added is hard or soft, and on the nature of the container the disinfectant is mixed and kept in. Since the primary cause of deterioration of the sterilising solution or of the made up disinfectant seems to be base catalysed polymerisation of the dicarboxyaldehyde, the pH indicator shows when deterioration has probably taken place. The invention is illustrated by way of example in the following description. In the following all terms expressed as a percentage are on a weight per volume basis, i.e. grams of substance in a hundred millilitres of solution. A suitable formulation comprises the following constituents Gl utaraldehyde 2.0000 Isopropanol 2.0000 Magnesium Chloride .6H20 4.0600 Surfactant Triton X 100 2.0000 Trade Mark Tetrasodium EDTA 0.2500 Sodium Borate 0.0300 Boric Acid 0.40008 Phenol Red 0.00058 Water 89.2595 100.0000 The reasons for inclusion of these constituents are as follows i The glutaraldehyde is the main bactericidal agent, the isopropanol having bactericidal properties to augment glutaraldehyde. ii The bactericidal activity of the glutaraldehyde is enhanced by magnesium ions, here provided in the form of magnesium chloride, which break down bacterial cell walls allowing ingress of glutaraldehyde. This process is augmented by the surface wetting effect of TritonX 100, a surfactant of the polyethoxyethanol group.Together the magnesium ions and surfactant potentiate the activity of glutaraldehyde at an otherwise unfavourably acidic pH. iii pH controllers. The boric acid and sodium borate form a buffer at a pH of around 6. iv The tetrosodium EDTA prevents precipitation of calcium borate from the solution in the event of hard water being added to the solution. v The phenol red acts as an indicator to give a distinctive colour change in the range pH 6 to pH 8.5.Any other suitable indicator for.the required pH range may be used e.g. litmus, bromothymol blue, naphtholphthalein, cresol red, m nitrophenol. Phenol red changes colour from yellow to carmine purple red between pH 6.8 to 8.4. The solution would remain potent throughout the orange and red phases. vi The boric acid and sodium borate also act as corrosion inhibitors for metals, thereby allowing the sanitising solution to be used freely for surgical or dental instruments. vii Finally the Triton X 100 acts as a detergent, the EDTA enhancing the detergency by chelating calcium. The concentrations quoted above are for example only. In particular the glutaraldehyde concentration of 2 is given since this is the generally accepted level in the known sterilising formulations. Further dilution by 1 2 to 1 10 is possible to give disinfecting solutions, or even by 1 20 to give a weakly disinfecting solution for, e.g. sanitising worktops. Exemplary, though non restrictive, ranges of composition for the main components are Glutaraldehyde 0.5 to 5.0t Isopropanol 0.5 to 5.08 Magnesium ions 0.1 to 2.0t Surfactant 0.5 to 5.0 Indicator 0.0001 to 0.01 Although the above example only uses glutaraldehyde it will be clear that similar considerations apply to other dialdehydes, or their adducts, such as succinaldehyde. The effectiveness of the compositions of the invention are shown by the following table of microbial challenge results of full strength, and 1 4 diluted sterilising solutions according to the invention. Organism Time for total kill Challenge per ml Full strength 1 to 4B. StearothermophilusSpores 3 x 10 8 hr 24 hr B. Licheniformis Spores 1.5 x 10 8 hr 24 hrB. StearothermophilusVegetative 3 x 106 8 hr 24 hrB. Licheneformis Vegetative 1.5 x 10 8 hr 24 hrPS. Aeruginosa 1 x 106 30 min 30 minM. Forteitum Tuberculosis 1 x 10 30 min 90 minE. Coli 5 x 106 10 min 30 minP. Vulgaris 3 x 106 10 min 30 minS. Aureus 1 x 10 2 min 10 minC. Albicans 8 x 105 2 min 90 min In manufacture of the above sterilising solutions the solution is filtered through a microbially retentive filter to eliminate micro organisms inherent in the non bactericidal ingredients. This filtration takes place before addition of the glutaraldehyde. It should not be taken from the above that use of an acidic solution prevents all polymerisation some has been observed on all the samples made by the applicants.However, it is suspected that what little precipitation is observed is due to the presence of seeding impurities in the reagents, or to reaction with the soda glass vessels used in preparation of some of the solutions.It was found that use of borosilicate glass vessels prevented too much formation of precipitate.