# ISOLATION, PURIFICATION AND SEQUENCE DETERMINATION OF CARDIONATRINS III AND IV

## Claims
Verfahren zur Herstellung eines gereinigten bioaktiven Peptids mit der folgenden Aminosäuresequenz bei dem man

## Description
This invention relates to peptides which may be isolated from mammalian heart atria and which exhibit potent diuretic, natriuretic, vasodilatory and cardioinhibitory properties. They are also inhibitors of production and or release of aldosterone and arginine vasopressin. It has been known for several years that the muscle cells of the atrial myocardium in mammals contain, in addition to contractile elements similar to those found in ventricular fibers, a highly developed Golgi complex, a relatively high proportion of rough endoplasmic reticulum, and numerous membrane bound storage granules, referred to as specific atrial granules. No such granules appear to exist in ventricular muscle cells. Peptide isolates from the atrial granules have been shown to exhibit potent diuretic, natriuretic and vasodilatory properties. In our earlier application 83307877.7 EP A 0116784 filed December 22nd 1983 a peptide defined by 28 amino acid residues was described and that peptide was defined as a 28 residue disulfide looped structure and named Cardionatrin I. In applicatation 85107916.0 EP A 0172361 filed June 26th 1985, the sequence of a cloned cDNA for rat cardionatrin precursor has been established. The precursor, preprocardionatrin, has been shown to contain 152 amino acids and cardionatrin I containing a 28 amino acid sequence beginning at residue 123 thereof may be cleaved therefrom. Other have verified the preprocardionatrin sequence and have reported a multitude of different peptides which differ from Cardionatrin I by a few amino acids more or less. In contrast, I have consistently observed only three other bio active peptides, cardionatrins II, III and IV as hereinafter defined which have significantly large molecular weights than Cardionatrin I, and which can be derived, from a common precursor. EP A 0166585 falling within the state of the art according to article 54 3 EPC discloses a DNA fragment comprising a base sequence coding for a peptide occuring in rat atrium cordis and having diuretic action, or for a precursor of the peptide. It also discloses a peptide having an amino acid composition optionally terminated by up to two arginine residues. The peptide without the terminal arginine residues appears to be identical with the material hereinafter identified as cardionatrin IV. In satisfaction of the objects of this invention there is provided a process for the preparation of a purified bioactive peptide Cardionatrin III having an amino acid sequence which comprises In still further satisfaction there is provided a purified bioactive composition containing a peptide having a molecular weight of about 8,000 and having an amino acid sequence For the purposes of this application it has been established previously that all mammalian heart atria tested contain the specific granules referred to above and that neither the diet of the mammal nor the physical condition i.e. fresh, fresh frozen or frozen, of the atria has any significant effect upon the extracted product. The peptide extract yield from different species may vary considerably but the composition of the extract for each species is remarkably consistent. There may be minor differences in amino acid composition between extracts from different species. Thus, as rat atria have been shown to contain a relatively high concentration of the cardionatric peptides relative to beef, human and other mammalian atria , one thousand frozen rat atria from non specific commercial sources were employed. The atria were ground together with solid carbon dioxide chips and homogenized in 10 volumes of a strongly acidic medium comprising w v 1.0 M acetic acid l.0N HCl 1 NaCl using a Polytron . After centrifugation of the extracts, 20 ml aliquots of supernatants were passed through pre wetted C Poly A RNA was isolated from rat atria as previously described in co pending U.S. Patent application 626,219 and used to prepare cDNA clones. In this instance the double stranded cDNAs were G tailed and annealed into the C tailed Pst I site of pUC 9 which was then used to transfrom Cardionatrin I was indentical to that isolated and sequenced previously as described in EP A 116784. Cardionatrin IV had a molecular weight of between 13,600 and 13,700 and more accurately 13,663 according to urea SDS polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis Fig. 2 . The primary structure of the first 30 residues of this peptide was determined by stepwise Edman degradation of the unmodified protein using a gas phase sequencer Applied Biosystems, model 470A . The sequence was identical with residues 25 54 of the anticipated preproprotein sequence derived from a cloned cDNA sequence Both the molecular weight and NH The amino terminal sequence of cardionatrin IV beginning with asparagine is the predicted cleavage point for the removal of the signal sequence. The analogous position in the human natriuretic factor precursor was shown to be a cleavage point by the isolation and characterization of ANP, which is the human analog of cardionatrin IV. A further point of interest is that NH terminus of cardionatrin IV is in register with, and matches almost exactly, the NH terminal sequence of cardiodilatin, a peptide with smooth muscle relaxant activity isolated from porcine atria. The two differences in sequence Gly Ser in positions 5 and 6 of cardiodilatin compared to Ser Ala at the same positions in rat procardionatrin reflect the conserved nature of this peptide in different species. Both cardionatrin II and III are present in such small amounts in acid extracts of rat atria that is has not been possible to characterize them extensively. However, amino acid sequence determination of the first seventeen residues of cardionatrin III located the amino terminus of this molecule at residue 73 of the preproprotein. Cardionatrin III has a calculated molecular weight between 8,000 and 8,500 or more accurately about 8,325. The small amounts of purified cardionatrin II thus far recovered from atrial extracts approx. 100pmol per 1000 atria has precluded accurate sequencing of this peptide. Since all four cardionatrins are natriuretic it is expected that they contain most of the sequence of cardionatrin I. Compositional analysis of cardionatrins III and IV Table I above indicated that these proteins extend up to and include tyrosine 150. Identification of the start points for cardionatrin I and III in procardionatrin confirms that these products are derived from a common precursor, cardionatrin IV. In independently establishing the nucleotide sequence of a cardionatrin complementary DNA clone 650 atrial cDNA clones were screened with a 250 bp cardionatrin cDNA probe. Eleven clones hybridized to the probe. Their cDNA inserts were released by digestion with Bam HI and Eco RI and compared for size. Three inserts were close to full length, based on previous estimates for the size of cardionatrin mRNA and, one of these, car 60, was sequenced. the cDNA sequence, excluding the poly a tract and homopolymeric tracts, is 787 bp long, including 456 bp coding for the 152 residue cardionatrin preproprotein, and 64 bp and 267 bp for the 5 and 3 untranslated regions, respectively.