# ANTIGENS OF i PLASMODIUM FALCIPARUM

## Claims
DNA Molekül, umfassend eine für ein immunogenes Polypeptid von P.falciparum codierende Nukleotidsequenz, dadurch gekennzeichnet, daß diese Nukleotidsequenz im wesentlichen der gesamten in Figur 7 dargestellten, für das Falciparum Interspersed Repeat Antigen FIRA codierenden Basensequenz oder einem Teil davon entspricht, oder daß sie im wesentlichen der gesamten in Figur 1 dargestellten, für das Ring Infected Erythrocyte Surface Antigen RESA codierenden Basensequenz oder einem Teil davon mit Ausnahme eines solchen Teiles, der ausschließlich aus der Sequenz 3619 3996 der Figur 1 oder Teilen davon besteht, oder einem funktionellen Äquivalent einer der voranstehenden Nukleotidsequenzen entspricht.

## Description
This invention relates to synthetic peptides and polypeptides which have antigenicity suitable for providing protective immunity against Immunity to Recently, molecular cloning techniques have facilitated the analysis of individual polypeptide antigens of One such antigen has been located at the surface of erythrocytes infected with the immature ring stage of Studies by hybridization and by immunofluorescence suggest that RESA from the Papua New Guinea isolate FC27, may be conserved in a wide range of Immunoblots on the antigens of synchronously growing parasites separated on SDS PAGE suggested that RESA is synthesized in the mature trophozoite as a Mr 210,000 protein which is processed to the Mr 155,000 form found bound to the membrane of erythrocytes infected with ring stage parasites. The more recent finding that the Mr 210,000 protein does not react with several anti RESA monoclonal antibodies and anti RESA peptide antibodies suggests that the Mr 210,000 protein is a cross reacting antigen and not a precursor of the Mr 155,000 RESA molecule. The Mr 155,000 polypeptide in merozoites is soluble in the non ionic detergent Triton X 100 but after transfer to the membrane of the ring infected erythrocyte it is largely Triton insoluble. Thus, it seems likely that RESA interacts with the erythrocyte cytoskeleton. Whether RESA penetrates the membrane lipid bilayer is not yet clear, but an important clue may come from the complete sequence of the RESA gene which has now been determined. From this, it is deduced that RESA contains two exons separated by a short intervening sequence Figure 2 . Exon 1 commences with a hydrophobic sequence typical of signal peptides on secreted polypeptides in many organisms. Following this, there is a hydrophilic sequence of approximately 36 amino acid residues and then a second hydrophobic stretch, of 14 residues. 202 bases further downstream exon 2 commences with a 16 amino acid non charged sequence and then continues with a highly charged region. The hydrophobic sequence generated by excision of the intron is typical of membrane anchor segments in a number of eukaryotic genes. As a result of work leading to the present invention, described in detail below, it has been shown on the basis of sequence, hybridization and immunological data that it is likely that RESA is highly conserved in most or all strains of Another antigen detected as a result of its cloning and expression in The corresponding cDNA clone expressing FIRA in The sequence of a chromosomal FIRA clone demonstrates that the FIRA gene is organised in a manner analogous to that of RESA Figure 8 . It contains a short 5 exon, a much longer 3 exon and a hydrophobic segment at the boundary of the two exons. As with RESA, the repeats in FIRA are restricted to the 3 exon only. According to the present invention, there is provided a DNA molecule comprising a nucleotide sequence coding for an immunogenic polypeptide of As noted above, and set out in greater detail in Figure 1 and 7, the amino acid sequences of RESA and FIRA consist of repeat units and flanking non repeat peptide units. Accordingly, the base sequences referred to above may code for polypeptides corresponding to one or more of these repeat and or flanking units, or to polypeptides corresponding to combinations of these repeat and or flanking units. The present invention also extends to synthetic peptides or polypeptides comprising an amino acid sequence displaying the antigenicity of all or a portion of an immunogenic polypeptide of Further details of the present invention will be apparent from the detailed description hereunder, and from the accompanying Figures. In the Figures Isolates FCQ27 PNG FC27 , IMR143 PNG IMR143 , IMR144 PNG IMR144 and MAD71 PNG MAD71 were obtained through collaboration with the Papua New Guinea Institute of Medical Research. NF7, originating from Ghana, and K1 originating from Thailand were obtained from D.Walliker, Edinburgh University. Replicas of arrays of antigen positive clones were grown overnight at 30 C, induced at 38 C, and lysed 7 . Sera were absorbed to remove anti Sera were obtained with informed consent from individuals from Madang, Papua New Guinea. Some patients presented with acute malaria while in others, asymptomatic parasitemia was detected in the course of routine surveys. Parasitemic individuals were treated with chloroquine. Parental consent was obtained before taking samples from children. The phage DNA was purified by CsCl equillbrium density centrifugation, digested with EcoRI, and size fractionated on a 1 low melting agarose gel, recovered by phenol extraction and labelled by nick translation. 3ml of labelled insert 3 x 10⁵cpm in 1ml 0.75 M NaCl 0.75 M Na citrate 50 formamide 50µg ml ¹ salmon sperm DNA 10µg ml ¹ poly C 0.02 Ficoll 0.02 polyvinylpyrollidone 0.02 BSA was hybridized to the array of antigen positive clones. The inserts were subcloned in pUC 9 9 , purified and then nick translated as described above and used in Southern blot experiments. The chromosomal RESA clones were isolated from a λgt10 library, and the EcoR1 inserts subcloned into pUC8. Rsa I, Aha III and Ssp I fragments of the EcoR1 inserts were subcloned into M13mp18 and mp19 vectors, and sequenced by the dideoxy technique 8 . Synthetic primers were also used. The results were processed by the program of Staden 10 . The sequence shown consists of the 3.5 Kb chromosomal EcoR1 fragment, joined at the EcoR1 site to that of the cDNA clone Ag 46. The chromosomal FIRA clone was initially identified as a 6 Kb Aha III fragment in λgt10. This Aha III fragment was subcloned into pUC8. Pvu II and Rsa I fragments were then subcloned into M13mp8 and 9 vectors and sequenced by the dideoxy technique. Induced cultures 50ml of clones Ag28, Ag231 and λamp3 were prepared as described previously 5 and 6 . The pelleted bacteria were sonicated in 100mM Na phosphate buffer, pH 6.8 10mM dithiothreitol followed by mixing at room temperature with the addition of 1 NaDodSO₄. The soluble bacterial proteins were equilibrated with 100mM Na phosphate, pH 6.8 1mM dithiothreitol 0.1 NaDodSO₄ by passage through Sephadex G 10 and conjugated to CNBr activated Sepharose Pharmacia, Sweden at room temperature according to the manufacturers instructions. A pool of human sera collected from individuals living in Papua New Guinea was clarified by centrifugation, diluted with an equal volume of phosphate buffered saline Pi NaCl and preabsorbed on a λamp3 Sepharose absorbent before passage over the Ag28 or Ag231 absorbent. Non specifically bound proteins were removed by repeated wash cycles of 100mM Na borate 500mM NaCl 0.05 Tween 20, pH 8.5 followed by Pi NaCl. Bound antibodies were eluted with 100mM glycine 150mM NaCl, pH 2.6 and immediately adjusted to pH 7.0 with 2M Tris HCl, pH 8.0. Protein extracts of cultures of Human antibodies affinity purified on Ag28 and Ag231 immunosorbents, or rabbit antisera raised against the fused polypeptide produced by Ag28 were used in immunoelectronmicroscopy employing the protein A gold procedure. Samples for immunoelectronmicroscopy were fixed with 0.25 glutaraldehyde 10 min at 25 C , diluted in 50mM NH₄Cl in 0.1M phosphate buffer, pH7.4, and then left in fresh 50mM NH₄Cl in phosphate buffer for 30 min. Cells were then washed twice in phosphate buffer and dehydrated in 70 ethanol before being embedded in L.R. White resin, hard grade London Resin Co. Ltd., Basingstoke, England . Sections were incubated in 1 bovine serum albumin or ovalbumin in 0.05M phosphate, pH7.4, containing 0.25 Tween 20 PO₄ Tween for 5 min. before transfer to a drop of rabbit anti RESA antiserum diluted 1 100 or affinity purified human anti RESA antibodies in PO₄ Tween for 30 60 min. at room temperature. After being washed in PO₄ Tween the sections were transferred to protein A gold E Y Laboratories, Inc. diluted 1 10 in PO₄ Tween for 30 60 min. After further washing, the sections were stained with aqueous uranyl acetate. Isolated merozoites were fixed at 4 C in 0.25 glutaraldehyde for 10 min. and then processed in the same manner as infected cells. The preparation of the RESA cDNA clones is described in detail in the Examples of International Patent Specification No. PCT AU84 00016, and incorporated herein by reference. Human antibodies specific for the RESA polypeptides were purified by affinity chromatography. In Western blots the antibodies reacted with a prominent band at Mr 155,000 which, in some experiments, resolved into a closely migrating doublet. A higher molecular weight polypeptide reacting with the anti RESA antibodies varied in size in different isolates Figure 3A it was at Mr 210,000 in isolate FC27. In addition, a smaller molecular weight polypeptide Mr 80,000 was detected in some antigen preparations Figure 3A . The abundance of the Mr 210,000 polypeptide was greatest in schizonts Figure 3B . In contrast, the Mr 155,000 antigen was abundant in the merozoites, rings and trophozoites with small amounts of schizonts Figure 3, B and C. The solubility of RESA in detergents was determined to examine the nature of the interaction between RESA and the erythrocyte membrane. The Mr 210,000 polypeptide was soluble in solutions of the nonionic detergent Triton X 100, as was the most of the Mr 155,000 polypeptide present in merozoites Figure 3B . In contrast, the bulk of the Mr 155,000 antigen in rings and other life cycle stages was insoluble in Triton X 100 but could be solubilised in electrophoresis sample buffer containing SDS and 2 mercaptoethanol Figure 3, B and C . When identical immunoblots were probed with monoclonal antibodies raised against the Ag28 fused polypeptide, or antisera raised in mice against RESA synthetic peptides, the Mr 210,000 polypeptide was not detected although the Mr 155,000 polypeptide gave a strong signal. Thus, it appears that the Mr 210,000 polypeptide is another gene product that cross reacts with RESA and not the initial RESA translation product. Previous studies with mouse antibodies against RESA fused polypeptides expressed in All RESA cDNA expression clones previously studied immunologically were bounded at the 5 terminus by the internal EcoR1 site. To examine whether any antigenic determinants were located 5 to this site, the large EcoR1 fragment from NF7 AG13 was subcloned into pUC9, randomly fragmented by sonication and the fragments were recloned in λAmp3. To identify clones expressing defined regions of this fragment, the resulting clones were screened by hybridization with 3 different restriction fragments, located 5 to the repeats, spanning the repeats and 3 to the repeats, respectively. Selected clones were then examined for expression of large fused polypeptides, detectable by Coomassie blue staining after polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis of total protein extracts from the cells. Because there are multiple stop codons in all but the correct frame of the sequence, it could be concluded that such clones expressed defined fragments of RESA, 5 to any fragments that had previously been analysed for antibody binding. Clones expressing 5 repeats were then examined by A 36 amino acid peptide corresponding to the sequence from residue 17 to residue 52 in exon 1 of RESA Figure 1 was synthesised and used to test sera from individuals exposed to malaria for antibodies to this region of RESA. Some individuals had significant levels of antibodies reactive with this peptide as measured in a solid phase radio immunoassay. Thus there are naturally immunogenic epitopes in exon 1 of RESA which must be encoded by non repeat sequences. RESA β galactosidase fused polypeptides were isolated from clones expressing the 3 and 5 repeats of RESA. These proteins were tested for immunogenicity by immunising rabbits with 0.25 0.5mg amounts of antigen together with complete Freund s adjuvant. The rabbits were boosted with similar amounts of antigen in incomplete adjuvant 4 6 weeks later. In each case, antibodies were elicited which reacted with the RESA molecule expressed in Three RESA synthetic peptides Table 1 conjugated to Keyhole Limpet Haemocyanin, were used to immunise mice and the resulting antisera were assayed against each of the three peptides conjugated to bovine serum albumin, and against fused polypeptides corresponding to the 3 and 5 repeats of RESA and sonicates of infected erythrocytes. All mice immunised with these peptides produced antibodies that were reactive with the homologous peptide and the fused polypeptide containing that sequence. In addition, peptide RESA 3 2 EENV x4 , induced antibodies that also reacted with the other 3 repeat peptide, RESA 3 1 EENVEHDA which has a 5 amino acid sequence in common. The reverse, however, was not true anti RESA 3 1 antibodies did not react with RESA 3 2. When these anti peptide antisera were assayed on peptide BSA conjugates there was no apparent cross reactivity between the 5 and 3 repeats of RESA. However, assaying the same sera on fused polypeptides revealed that the peptides had induced antibodies that reacted with both repeat structures, although the reaction with the heterologous repeat was very weak in comparison to that with the homologous repeat. The anti peptide antisera were used to probe Western blots of infected erythrocytes. All of the antisera reacted specifically with the Mr 155,000 RESA polypeptide. RESA was detected by immunoelectronmicroscopy at the membrane of erythrocytes infected with ring stage parasites but not in association with immature parasites within the erythrocyte Figure 5 . In contrast, the membranes of erythrocytes containing mature parasites were not labelled, but gold particles were associated with electron dense organelles presumed to be micronemes within the parasite cytoplasm Figure 4 . Control antibodies to S antigens did not react with merozoites or the erythrocyte membrane. The labelling of merozoites was clearly internal, with no indication of specific labelling of the merozoite surface. Labelling occurred in clusters away from the nucleus and occasionally over a rhoptry. In other merozoites, gold particles were more dispersed but were located near the rhoptries, which were particle free. Similar distributions of gold were observed with both affinity purified human antibodies and rabbit antibodies raised against the cloned antigen, although higher background labelling was evident with the affinity purified human antibodies. The specificity of the observed patterns of labelling was demonstrated by the different patterns, or by the lack of labelling when the same procedures were used with affinity purified human antibodies or rabbit antisera to other cloned The location of RESA was further examined by studying its accessability to attack by proteolytic enzymes. When intact erythrocytes infected with ring stage parasites approximately 5 parasitaemia were treated with chymotrypsin or trypsin, the Mr 155,000 polypeptide was partially cleaved at a limited number of sites generating two main fragments which like the intact molecule reacted with anti RESA antibodies Figure 6 . This result indicates that at least part of the RESA molecule is exposed on the external surface of the ring infected erythrocyte. Asynchronous cultures of FIRA cDNA clones reacted with up to 93 of a set of more than 100 PNG sera from 65 individuals, varying in clinical status. Further, they gave the most intense signals with a majority of the sera, although many sera reacted strongly with additional clones. Chromosomal DNA from 5 Human antibodies specific for the FIRA polypeptide Fig. 9 were purified by affinity chromatography. In Western blots the antibodies reacted strongly with a It is concluded that FIRA is a very large polypeptide that is expressed in each isolate of The affinity purified human antibodies and serum from mice immunized with clone Ag231 or members of the Ag231 family reacted with mature parasites containing pigment and also with cells containing immature ring form parasites. The fluorescence over ring infected cells was uneven and apparently distributed beyond the limits of the parasite. Hence it is likely that FIRA is external to the parasite, although no staining of the erythrocyte surface was detected when the antibodies were reacted in suspension with non fixed parasitized cells or with lightly glutaraldehyde fixed and air dried monolayers of parasitized erythrocytes 12 . The stage specificity of FIRA is therefore in some ways analogous to RESA 2 . Hybridization of cDNA prepared from mRNA of highly purified merozoites to the array of 133 colonies revealed another parallel with RESA. All members of the Ag231 family hybridized to merozoite cDNA. Remarkably, the only other clones in this array or in a separate array of 78 antigen positive clones, that hybridize to merozoite cDNA encode RESA 2,13 . Hence FIRA and RESA mRNAs are unusual among mRNAs for The chromosomal clone encompassing the AhaIII fragment, cloned in λgt10 and designated Ag231.5 has been fully sequenced. The gene contains an intervening sequence and is remarkably like RESA in overall structure. Exon 1 consists of a segment that may be a signal peptide although it is very short , then a region of hydrophilic amino acid followed by a stretch of 32 uncharged amino acids. The intervening sequence is located immediately adjacent to this relatively hydrophobic segment. The remaining sequence is composed of blocks of repetitive and interspersed non repetitive sequences. In all cases, the repetitive sequences occur as groups of 13 hexamers, but the most 5 group of these lack interspersed non repetitive sequences i.e. there is a block of 39 hexamers. It appears that a deletion at the 3 end has altered the linker Aha join, so the structure at the 3 end is uncertain. Human antibodies affinity purified on Ag231.6 FIRA when tested in an ELISA gave a very strong signal on Ag231.6, a weaker but very definite signal on Ag13.1.7.5 RESA 5 repeat , and no signal on Ag13 RESA 3 repeat Figure 10 . This cross reaction is consistent with the sequence homology between the repeats in these otherwise distinct antigens. A full description of the preparation of recombinant DNA molecules, and of recombinant DNA cloning vehicles and vectors, of host cell cloning vehicle combinations, and of the expression of polypeptides by host cells is contained in International Patent Specification No. PCT AU84 00016. This specification also describes in detail the use of DNA molecules and polypeptides expressed thereby in serological diagnosis, and in the preparation of single and multivalent vaccines for stimulating protective antibodies against