# A vehicle carried system for camouflage with foam.

## Abstract
A vehicle carried system for camouflage with foam includes a plant for generating water based foam. The foam generating plant includes a reservoir for foaming liquid or a water tank 2 with a reservor 6 for a foaming agent, which are connected to produce foaming liquid. The foaming liquid is pumped at 36 or is delivered in another way under pressure to the foam generator 42,46 for generating camouflage to be applied to the ground or to be filled into containers. Containers and free foam are preferably coloured to give the protected object also a good visual camouflage. Addition of colouring agents is controlled using a computer and photometers which sense light and colour of the surroundings and the foam. Flexible bags are used as containers which are placed on the vehicle for camouflage.

## Claims
1. A vehicle carried system for camouflage with foam including a plant for generating water based foam, characterized in that said foam generating plant includes a foaming liquid reservoir containing foaming agent and water, which under pressure are delivered to at least one foam generator for generating camouflage foam to be applied to the ground or to be filled into containers.

## Description
The present invention relates to a vehicle carried system for camouflage with foam including a plant for generating water based foam. The use of foam as a camouflage within the visible range of wavelengths as well as within the infrared range and the microwave range is previously known from the European Patent application No. 80 850057.3. The object of the present invention is to provide a system for camouflage with foam including a plant for generating water based foam in large volumes to be applied directly to the ground or for filling containers, such as bags, which are intended to be placed on e.g. a vehicle for camouflage of it. The system is intended to be transported by a vehicle, the system being e.g. installed in a container like unit for transport on heavy vehicles when adapted for generating large volumes of foam, which should be applied to the ground, or it can be a fixed or detachable installation, e.g. on a tank for the filling of camouflage bags. This object is achieved with a system according to Claim No. 1 or 2. According to a preferred development of the invention colour reservoirs are connected in order to deliver colouring agents to the foaming liquid, so that a foam is obtained that is coloured in the desired way. The system according to the invention could also advantageously include reservoirs for further additives such as anti corrosion agents, stabilizing agents for prolonging the time of duration of the foam, and anti freezing agents. In a system for generating large volumes of foam the foam generator is formed with a housing, a nozzle in the shape of an essentially rectangular frame being arranged at one end of the housing. Through this nozzle the liquid is ejected through the housing, a fan being arranged at this same end of the housing for blowing air through the housing, so that air passes through the housing together with the foaming liquid, and further through a net arranged at the other end of the housing to form av light foam. According to a further developped embodiment of the system according to the invention the fan and the water pump are hydraulically driven, and the pumps for the other additives, which are added to the foaming liquid, are powered by electricity, the rotation speed of all pumps being contrallable, so that the composition of the foaming liquid and the so called foaming coefficient, i.e. the ratio between foaming liquid and air per volume unit, can be controlled. In the present invention the foaming coefficient is below 1000 and normally in the range of 100 150. The water pump can preferably be arranged to fill also the water tank. The system according to the invention further preferably includes an internal combustion engine serving as a power source for the hydraulic pump and the electric generator to make the system form a self supporting unit. The system according to the invention could preferably comprise camouflage bags, which after filling with foam are placed on a vehicle for camouflage thereof. In this case, the bags are adapted to their position on the vehicle, so that this method can be used in the intended way without the camouflage interfering with or destroying the vehicle. According to another embodiment of the invention the system is installed on the vehicle to be camouflaged, and the bags are attached to and carried by the foam generators. In this case the bags are placed on the foam generators before their filling with foam. This filling with foam could then be executed automatically from inside the vehicle with no soldier staying outside the vehicle. The foam bags are then preferably coloured to form a visual camouflage. The thickness of the bags is adapted to attenuate infrared radiation and microwave radiation to a desired degree. For applying foam to the ground the system is preferably constructed with automatic colouring control means enabling a continous adjustment of the colour of the foam to that of the surroundings. Such colour control means includes photometers, preferably sensitive to white, red and blue colours, which by a moving mirror sense the colour of the foam placed on the ground and the colour of the surroundings, the signals from the photometers being fed to a computer, which in response, to the comparison of these colours, controls the supply of different colouring agents, conveniently of yellow, red, blue and black colour, foaming agents and the supply of water, so that the colour of the foam is adjusted to coincide with that of the surroundings in the best possible way. With a system according to the invention large volumes of foam can be generated in a simple way and applied to the ground. The foam applicator can be provided with heat insulation and heating devices. There can also be provided a spraying gun for heavy foam intended for fire fighting purposes. The control panel for the foam applicator can be placed in the foam applicator or in the transport vehicle. An embodiment of the system according to invention, chosen as an example, will now be described more in detail in relation to the accompanying drawings, in which In Fig. 1 a system according to the invention is illustrated, intended for generating and applying large volumes of foam. The system includes a water tank 2 as well as five additional reservoirs 4,6,8,10,12, which respectively contain a stabilizer for prolonging the time of duration of the foam, a foaming agent, e.g. in the form of tensides, a first colouring agent, a second colouring agent and a third colouring agent. The colouring agents are conveniently constituted of water soluble paper colours which relatively soon will disappear in the landscape, when the foam is dissolved. Each of the reservoirs 4,6,8,10, and 12 is connected via a pump 14,16,18,20, and 22 respectively to an output conduit 24 from the water tank 2. Each of the pumps 14,16,18,20,22 is driven by an electric motor 26,28,30,32 and 34 respectively, whereby in a simple way an individual control of the rotation speed of the pumps is made possible. By variation of the rotation speed of the electric motors 26,28,30,32,34 and with that the speed of the pumps 14,16,18,20,22 the amount of the different additives consisting of stabilizer, foaming agent and various colouring additives could be controlled. On the conduit 24 a water pump 36 is arranged. The water pump 36 is driven by a hydraulic motor 38 and its rotation speed can be controlled in order to adjust the delivered volume. By the pump 36 the foaming liquid can be pumped either through a conduit 40 to a foam generator 42 for generating an intermediate foam having a foaming coefficient in the range of 30 200 and at a pressure of typically 5 bars. The foam generator is of a type to be described in detail in relation to Fig. 2 and can be used for filling foam bags in the system described more in detail in connection with Figs. 3 5. Alternatively, the cut off cock 44 can be closed and the foaming liquid pumped to the foam generator 46. This foam generator 46 is constructed to produce large volumes of light foam with a foaming coefficient exceeding 200 and a liquid pressure of typically 1.5 bars, this foam being intended to be applied to the ground. The foam generator 46 includes a rectangular housing 48, at the input end of which a nozzle 50 in the shape of an essentially rectangular frame is arranged, this nozzle 50 being fed with foaming liquid by the conduit 52. From the nozzle 50 the foaming liquid is sprayed through the space inside the housing 48 and out through a net 54, arranged at the opposite side of the housing 48, together with air, which a fan 56, arranged at the input side of the housing 48, is blowing through the output net 54 to obtain a light foam. As is shown in Fig. 1 the net is pleated to increase the output area. The water pump 36 and the fan 56 are each driven by a hydraulic motor 38 and 58 respectively, while the pumps 14,16,18,20,22 for the different additives are each driven by an electric motor 26,28,30,32, and 34 respectively. A hydraulic pump 60 for the hydraulic motors and an electric generator 62 for the electric motors, are driven by an internal combustion engine 64, whereby the foam applying system forms a self supporting unit as far as power is concerned. The whole system is preferably built into a container like modular unit, which can easily be loaded on a suitable transport vehicle, e.g. a heavy truck. The water tank 2 is also provided with a connection 66 for filling water, e.g. from a vehicle for transport of liquid goods or by means of a pump from another water source. The water pump 36 itself could be used for filling of water. By the fact that the hydraulic and electric motors are speed controlled the amount of the different additives to the foam liquid can be controlled, whereby the foaming coefficient, the foam capacity and the colour of the foam can be regulated within wide limits. The control panel for the foam applying system can either be placed in the modular container unit itself or in the transport vehicle. The system could also be provided with a spraying gun for heavy foam intended for fire fighting purposes. In Fig. 2 is illustrated, in a longitudinal sectional view and in an end view from the input side, a foam generator of the type used at 42 in the system according to Fig. 1. At the input end the foam generator 42 is provided with a nipple 68 for the hose 40. Thus, foaming liquid is injected through the nipple 68 into the space inside the conical pipe 70, air being sucked together with the liquid through the space around the mouth of the nipple 68 and the pipe flange 72, as is schematically illustrated in Fig. 2. At the end of the conical pipe 70 there is a conically shaped net 74, through which foaming liquid and air thus are exhausted for the formation of foam. The net 74 is surrounded by a protective cylindrical pipe 76. The nipple 68 is attached to the pipe flange 72 by means of a suitable number of arms 78, arranged circumferentially. Suitably three arms 78 are evenly distributed circumferentially at a mutual distance of 120 . The foam generator 42 in the system according to Fig. 1 can be used for filling camouflage bags which are then placed on a combat vehicle to be camouflaged. In Fig. 3 is illustrated a second embodiment of the system according to the invention, which is fixedly or detachably mounted on a tank. This embodiment includes a foaming liquid reservoir 80 containing a mixture of foaming agent and water. The reservoir 80 is pressurized from a compressed air bottle 82. From the foaming liquid reservoir a conduit 84 passes to distributing pipes 86 with cut off valves and conduits pass from this distributor pipes 86 to twenty seven foam generators 88 located in the desired way on the tank. These foam generators can be of the type shown in Fig. 2. To these foam generators 88 fifteen foam bags 90 are connected. When the valves belonging to the respective foam generators 88 are opened the pressurized foaming liquid is pressed together with co ejected air through the foam generator to obtain foam, which is used for filling the bags 90 under pressure. In this way the camouflage can be rapidly applied to the vehicle and it can be driven and used in other ways with the camouflage applied to it. The foaming liquid container 80, the compressed air bottle 82 and the associated valves and filters are suitably placed within the tank, and the system is controlled from inside the vehicle. The camouflage bags 90 are preferably of such a colour that a good visible camouflage is obtained also when they are moist, and their form and position are chosen to obtain good camouflage for microwaves as well as infrared and visual radiation. For this the shape of the bags is adapted to the actual position, cf. also Fig. 4 showing a tank from behind, provided with foam bags 90. To obtain a saticfactory attenuation of infrared waves and microwaves the bags 90 have to be of sufficient thickness. The camouflage bags 90 are conveniently manufactured from cotton. The outer cloth therein will be moistened by the foam in the bags and this cloth is permeable to air but not to foam. In Fig. 5 is shown a foam bag 90. The bag contains partitions 92 in order to give the filled bag the desired shape, e.g. a relatively flat shape, cf. Figs. 3 and 4. Instead of partitions, threads arranged appropriately and connecting the walls of the bag in the interior, could be used for this purpose. At the upper end of the bag a guiding bar 94 is arranged, and the bag is mounted with its mouth 96 on a foam generator 42. The bags 90 have small weight in comparison with their area. The area can typically by about 1.5 m² and the thickness of the bag could be about 0.15 m In Fig. 6 is shown a diagram of an automatic colour control device in the system according to Fig. 1 for automatic adjustment of the colour of the foam to that of the surroundings when applying foam to the ground. The foam should be coloured to resemble the surroundings, as this will give the best camouflage effect to the covered ground area. The colour control device according to Fig. 6 consists of a colour measuring unit, a control unit and a foam colouring unit. The colour measuring unit includes three photometers 98,100,102, suitably sensitive to white, blue and red colours respectively, which by a moving mirror 104 measure colour and light alternatively of applied foam and of the surroundings. Instead of the moving mirror 104 a moving prism could be used. The measured values from the photometers 98,100,102 are fed to the control unit of the device, this having the form of a computer 106, which by a digital to analog converter 108 controls the electric motors 109,110,112,114,116 driving the pumps 117,118,120,122,124 for the delivery of colouring agents, suitably yellow, blue, red and black colours, and foaming agent. The electric motors 109,110,112,114,116 and the pumps 117,118,120,122,124 correspond to the motors 28,30,32,34 and the pumps 16,18,20,22 of the embodiment illustrated in Fig. 1, however, the embodiment according to Fig. 6 is constructed for four colouring agents besides the foaming agent while the system according to fig. 1 is constructed for three colouring agents. In response to the measured values from the photometers 98,100,102 the computer 106, by a hydraulic valve 126, also controls the hydraulic motor 38 driving the water pump 36, so that the foam generator 46 via the conduit 52 is fed with a foaming agent which produces a foam, the colour of which, as well as possible, coincides with that of the surroundings. The rotation speed of the driving motors are thus controlled by the computer unit in response to comparative colour measurements on the foam and on the surroundings. The computer 106 can also be constructed for manual control by the unit 128, so that the colour of the foam is adjusted to that of the surroundings manually by an operator observing the foam and the colour of the surroundings. The colour control device described above can also be used for other purposes and can be constructed as a control system for the continuos adjustment of paints of predetermined colour, e.g. when dyeing fabric material.