# Isothioureido isoindolediones, process for their preparation and use as plant regulators.

## Abstract
A novel class of compounds which are useful as plant growth regulators is disclosed, having the general structural formula

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. Compounds which have the structural formula EMI57.1 In which R is C1 to C4 alkyl. alkenyl or alkynyl to which may be attached phenyl, pyridyl, benzoyl, thenoxy, halophenoxy, halobenzoyl, N phenylcarbamyl, N alkylcarbamyl,N trifluoromethylthiadiazolylcarbamyl, carboxy, carbalkoxy or halo substituents, R1 is H, C1 to C3 alkyl, alkenyl or alkynyl to which may be attached phenyl, halophenyl or phenoxy groups, acetyl, or R and R1 together may be C2 to C4 alkylene, Ar is phenyl or benzoyl, R2 is C1 to C4 alkyl, alkoxy, alkylene, alkylamino or alkylthio, phenoxy, benzyloxy, carbalkoxy, acetyl, methylenedioxy, trifluoromethyl, nitro, halo or cyano and n may be zero or an integer from 1 to 4, with the provision that at least one position ortho to the point of attachment of a phenyl ring of the Ar structure must be unsubstituted, 3 R is lower alkyl or halo and n may be zero or an integer from 1 to 4. 2. The method of regulating the growth of plants comprising applying to the plants, the seed or the soil an effective amount of a compound as specified in Claim 1. 3. The method of regulating the growth of plants which comprises applying to the plants pre or postemergently an effective amount of a composition comprising from 0.1 percent to 95 weight percent of a compound of claim 1 in combination with from 0.1 to 75 weight percent of a carrier or surfactant. 4. The method of increasing fruit set of crop plants which comprises applying to the plant foliage an effective amount of a compound of claim 1 in combination with an inert carrier and a surfactant. 5. The method of claim 4 in which the crop plants are of the species Lycopersicun escuZentum. 6. The method of claim 4 in which the crop plants are of the species Soa mar. 7. 2 Il Methyl 2 allyL 3 3 fluorophenyl is ureido 1H isoindole 1,3 2H dione. 8. 2 1 Methyl 2 propyl 3 phenylisothioureido lH isoindole 1,3 2H dione. 9. 2 1 Methyl 2 4 bromobenzyl 3 phenylisothioureido lH isoindole 1,3 2H dione. 10. 2 1 Methyl 2 pivalylmethyl 3 phenylisothioureido 1H isoindole 1,3 2H dione. 11. 2 1, 2 Dimethyl 3 phenylisothioureido 1H isoindole 1,3 2H dione hydroiodide. 12. 2 1 Methyl 2 allyl 3 phenylisothioureido lH isoindole 1,3 2H dione hydrobromide. 13. 2 1 Methyl 2 benzyl 3 phenylisothioureido lH isoindol e 1,3 2H dione hydrobromide. 14. 2 1 Allyl 2 methyl 3 phenylisothioureido 1Hisoindole 1,3 2H dione. 15. 2 1,2 Diallyl 3 phenylisothioureido 1Hisoindole 1,3 2H dione. 16. 2 1,2 Dimethyl 3 3 methylphenyl isothioureido 1H isoindole 1,3 2H dione. 17. 2 1 Methyl 2 2 propynyl 3 3 fluorophenyl isothioureidol 1H isoindole 1,3 2H dione hydrobromide. 18. 2 1,2 Dimethyl 3 3 chlorophenyl isothioureido lH isoindole 1,3 2H dione. 19. 2 1,2 Dimethyl 3 3,4 dichlorophenyl isothioureido 1H isoindole 1,3 2H dione. 20. 2 1 Methyl 2 allyl 3 phenylisothioureido 1H isoindole 1,3 2H dione. 21. 2 1,2 Dimethyl 3 phenylisothioureido 1Hisoindole 1,3 2H dione, 22. 2 1 Methyl 2 benzyl 3 phenylisothioureido 1H isoindole 1,3 2H dione. 23. 2 1,2 Dimethyl 3 3 fluorophenyl isothioureido 1H isoindole 1,3 2H dione. 24. 2 l Methyl 2 ethyl 3 phenylisothioureid 1H isoindole 1,3 2H dione. 25. 2 l Methyl 2 butyl 3 3,4 dic hlorophenyl isothioureido 1H isoindole 1,3 2H dionee. 26. 2 1 Methyl 2 methylthiomethyl 3 3 chloro phenyl isothioureido lH isoindole 1,3 2H dione. 27. 2 1,2 Dimethyl 3 phenylisothioureido 4 methyl 1H isoindole 1,3 2H dione. 28. 2 1,2 Dimethyl 3 phenylisothioureido 4 methyl 1H isoindole 1,3 2H dione hydriodide. 29. 2 1 Methyl 2 carbethoxymethyl 3 4 fluorophenyl isothioureido 1H isoindole 1,3 2H dione hydrobromide. 30. 2 1 Methyl 2 carbethoxymethyl 3 4 fluoro phenyl isothioureido lH isoindole 1,3 2H dione. 31. 2 1 Methyl 2 carbethoxymethyl 3 3 fluoro phenyl isothioureido lH isoindole 1,3 2H dione hydrobromide. 32. 2 2 Ethyl 3 phenylisothioueido 1H isoindole 1,3 2H dione. 33. 2 1 Allyl 2 ethyl 3 phenylisothioureido 1H isoindole 1,3 2H dione. 34. 2 1,2 Dimethyl 3 3 trifluoromethylphenyl isothioureido 1H isoindole 1,3 2H dione. 35. 2 1,2 Dimethyl 3 4 chlorophenyl isothioureido 1H isoindole 1,3 2H dion 36. 2 l Methyl 2 benzyl 3 4 chlorophenyl isothioureido 1H isoindole 1,3 2H dione. 37. 2 1 2 Propynyl 2 benzyl 3 4 chlorophenyl isothioureido 1H isoindole 1,3 2H dione. 38. 2 1 Methyl 2 2,6 dichlorobenzyl 3 phenylisothioureido lH isoindole 1,3 2H dione. 39. 2 1 Methyl 2 4 methylbenzyl 3 phenylisothioureido lH isoindole 1,3 2H dione. 40. 2 l Allyl 2 propyl 3 phenyl isothioureido 1H isoindole 1,3 2H dione. 41. 2 1 Methyl 2 isopropyl 3 phenyl isothioureido 1H isoindole 1,3 2H dione. 42. 2 1,2 Dimethyl 3 4 methoxyphenyl isothioureido 1H isoindole 1,3 2H dione. 43. 2 2 Ethyl 1 methyl 3 4 methoxyphenyl isothioureido 1H isoindole 1,3 2H dione. 44. 2 1,2 Dimethyl 3 2 methylphenyl isothioureido 1H isoindole 1,3 2H dione. 45. 2 2 Ethyl 1 methyl 3 2 methylphenyl isothioureido 1H isoindole 1,3 2H dione. 46. 2 1,2 Dimethyl 3 2 chlorophenyl isothioureido 1H isoindole 1,3 2H dione. 47. 2 1,2 Dimethyl 3 4 fluorophenyl isothioureido 1H isoindole 1,3 2H dione. 48. 2 2 Ethyl 1 methyl 3 2 chlorophenyl isothioureido 1H isoindole 1,3 2H dione. 49. 2 2 Ethyl l methyl 3 4 fluorophenyl isothioureido 1H isoindole 1,3 2H dione. 50. 2 1 Allyl 2 isopropyl 3 phenylisothioureido lH isoindole 1,3 2H dione. 51. 2 2 Butyl l methyl 3 phenylisothioureido 1H isoindole 1,3 2H dione. 52. 2 1 Allyl 2 butyl 3 phenylisothioureido lH isoindole 1,3 2H dione. 53. 2 2 Isobutyl l methyl 3 phenylisothioureido lH isoindole 1,3 2H dione. 54. 2 r1,2 Dimethyl 3 14 chloro 3 trifluoro methylphenyl isothioureido lH isoindole 1,3 2H dione. 55. 2 1,2 Dimethyl 3 2 trifluoromethyl isothioureido lH isoindole 1,3 2H dione. 56. 2 2 2 2,4 Dichlorophenoxy ethyl 1methyl 3 phenylisothioureido 1H isoindole 1,3 2H dione. 57. 2 1,2 Dimethyl 3 3 methoxyphenyl isothioureido 1H isoindole 1,3 2H dione. 58. 2 1,2 Dimethyl 3 3 methylthiophenyl isothioureido lH isoindole 1,3 2H dione. 59. 2 1,2 Dimethyl 3 4 chloro 2 methylphenyl isothioureido 1H isoindole 1,3 2H dione. 60. 2 1,2 Dimethyl 3 2,4 dichlorophenyl isothioureido 1H isoindole 1,3 2H dione. 61. 2 1,2 Dimethyl 3 4 ethoxyphenyl isothioureido lH isoindole 1,3 2H dione. 62. 2 1,2 Dimethyl 3 2 fluorophenyl isothioureido 1H isoindole 1,3 2H dione. 63. 2 2 Ethyl 1 methyl 3 2,4 dichlorophenyl isothioureido 1H isoindole 1,3 2H dione. 64. 2 2 Ethyl l methyl 3 4 ethoxyphenyl isothioureido 1H isoindole 1,3 2H dione. 65. 2 2 Allyl l methyl 3 4 trifluoromethyl phenyl isothioureido lH isoindole 1,3 2H dione. 66. 2 2 2 2,4 Dichlorophenoxy ethyl 1 methyl3 2 fluorophenyl isothioureido 1H isoindole 1,3 2H diione. 67. 2 2 1 Benzoyl ethyl 1 methyl 3 4methoxyphenyl isothioureido 1H isoindole 1,3 2H dione. 68. 2 12 4 FluorobenzoyImethyl l methyl 3 2 methylphenyl isothiourido 1H isoindole 1,3 2H dione. 69. 2 I2 4 FluorobenzoyImethyl l methyl 3 2 fluorophenyl isothioureido 1H isoindole 1,3 2H dione. 70. 2 2 Carboxymethyl l methyl 3 phenyl isothioureido lH isoindole 1,3 2H dione hydrobromide. 71. 2 1 3 Chlorobenzyl 2 methyl 3 phenylisothioureido 1H isoindole 1,3 2H dione. 72. 2 2 3 Phenyl 2 propenyl 3 3 fluorophenyl isothioureido 1H isoindole 1,3 2H dione. 73. 2 2 2 N Ethyl N phenylcarbamyl ethyl 1methyl 3 3 fluorophenyl isothioureido 1H isoindole 1,3 2H dione. 74. 2 1 Methyl 2 3,4,4 trifluoro 3 butenyl 3 3 fluorophenyl isothioureido 1H isoindole 1,3 2H dione. 75. 2 1 Metbyl 2 3,4,4 trifluoro 3 butenyl 3 phenylisothioureido3 lH isoindole 1,3 2H dione. 76. 2 1 Methyl 2 4 pyridylmethyl 3 phenylisothioureido 1H iscindole 1,3 2H dione. 77. 2 1 Methyl 2 3 pyridylmethyl 3 phenylisothioureido 1H isoindole 1,3 2H dionel. 78. 2 1 Methyl 2 2 pyridylmethyl 3 3 fluorophenyl isothioureido3 lH isoindole 1,3 2H dione. 79. 2 1 Methyl 2 3 pyridylmethyl 3 3 fluoro phenyl isothioureido lH isoindole 1,3 2H dione. 80. 2 1,2 Dimethyl 3 3 methylbenzoyl isothioureido 1H isoindole 1,3 2H dione. 81. The method of manufacturing compounds which have the strucEMI63.1 in which R is C1 to C4 alkyl, alkenyl or alkynyl to which may be attached phenyl, pyridyl, benzoyl, phenoxy, halophenoxy, halobenzoyl, N phenylcarbamyl, N alkylcarbamyl,N trifluoromethylthiadiazolylcarbamyl, carboxy, carbalkoxy or halo substituents, R1 is H, C1 to C3 alkyl, alkenyl or alkynyl to which may be attached phenyl, halophenyl or phenoxy groupS, acetyl, or R and R1 together may be C2 to C4 alkylene, Ar is phenyl or benzoyl, R2 is C1 to C4 alkyl, alkoxy, alkylene, alkylamino or alkylthio, phenoxy, benzyloxy, carbalkoxy, acetyl, methylenedioxy, trifluoromethyl, nitro, halo or cyano and n may be zero or an integer from 1 to 4, with the provision that at least one position ortho to the point of attachment of a phenyl ring of the Ar structure must be unsubstituted, R is lower alkyl or halo and n may be zero or an integer from 1 to 4, comprising reacting a compound of the formula EMI63.2 in a non reactive polar organic solvent with a compound of the formula R X in which X is a leaving group, in particular a chlorine, bromine, iodine or sulfate substituent. 82. The method of claim 81 in which the compounds are reacted at room temperature in the presence of a strongly basic compound which acts as an acid acceptor.

## Description
ISOTHIOUREIDO ISOINDOLEDIONES AND USE AS PLANT GROWTH REGULATORSDescription of the Invention Growth regulating effects have been observed upon application of many chemical substances to plants.In general, very few of these substances can be used with benefit to the plants which are affected. In most instances the beneficial effects, if any, are minor and the major effects are so drastic that the compounds can only be used for the destruction of the plants. Examples of compounds with drastic effects which have become useful as herbicides are 2,4 D, EPTC and alachlor. Although a relatively small number of growth regulants has proved to be commercially useful, there are many uses for active compounds, among which are the following Increase or induce flowering pineapple . Increase blossom set, pod set, seed set, and or fruit set prevent abortion of flowers or withered blossoms . Increase size of fruits, vegetables, seed, and or tubers grapes, soybeans, sugar beets, etc. Decrease size of fruits, vegetables, seed, and or tubers potatoes, and grapefruits . Increase number of tillers cereals . Increase number of shoots from crown alfalfa . Increase branching soybeans or widen branches apples . We have now discovered a group of novel compounds which display a great variety of growth regulating effects, indicating utility for many purposes, including uses mentioned above. Briefly, the novel class of growth regulant compounds has the general structural formula EMI2.1 In which R is C1 to Cj alkvl, alkenyl or alkynyl to which may be attached phenyl, pyridyl, benzoyl, phenoxy, halophenoxy, halobenzoyl, N phenylcarbamyl, N alkylcarbamyl,N trifluoromethylthiadiazolylcarbamyl, carboxy, carbalkoxy or halo substituents, R1 is H, C1 to C3 alkyl, alkenyl or alkynyl to which may be attached phenyl, halophenyl or phenoxy groups, acetyl, or R and R1 together may be C2 to C4 alkylene, Ar is phenyl or benzoyl, R2 is C1 to C4 alkyl, alkoxy, alkylene, alkylamino or alkylthio, phenoxy, benzyloxy, carbalkoxy, acetyl, methylenedioxy, trifluoromethyl, nitro, halo or cyano and n may be zero or an integer from 1 to 4, with the provision that at least one position ortho to the point of attachment of a phenyl ring of the Ar structure must be unsubstituted, R is lower alkyl or halo and n may be zero or an integer from 1 to 4. By virtue of their basic chemical characteristics, the novel compounds may also exist in the form of salts, by addition of a strong acid, such as HBr or HC1. In the salt form the compounds are more easily formulated in watersoluble and water dispersible formulations. By selection of the substituent R, the lipophilic properties of the novel compounds may be modified to obtain desirable improvements in ease of formulation, particularly as emulsifiable concentrates, and also improvements in activity on many plant species. The nature of the substituent group R1 is important to the intensity of the growth regulator effect.For highest activity, small alkyl or alkenyl groups having one to three carbon atoms are preferred. The nature of the Rê substituents is not as critical as the aforementioned groups. However, both activity and selectivity of action may be adjusted to some degree by selection of these groups. In general, C1 toC4 alkyl or alkoxy, halo or cyano substituents are preferred and Ar is preferably phenyl. In general the substituents designated R3 do not enhance appreciably the activity of the growth regulators.However, by choice of type and position of the R3 substituents, chemical stability may be improved and the growth regulator effect may be prolonged. Prolonging the effect may in some instances eliminate the need for a second application, so that the compounds may be utilized more efficiently. Unless this is economically advantageous, however, compounds in which n O are preferred.Synthesis of the Growth Regulants The novel compounds of this invention may be manufactured by means of the general method comprising reacting a compound of the formula EMI3.1 in a non reactive polar organic solvent with a compound of the formula R X in which X is a leaving group exemplified by a chlorine, bromine, iodine or sulfate substituent.Specific procedures which are suitable for synthesis of representative compounds are outlined in the following chart and exemplified below. EMI5.1 It will be understood that when it is desired that R and R1 shall be different, the alkylation at the sulfur and amino locations is conveniently done in separate reaction steps. The following specific procedures illustrate the general methods of synthesis. Synthesis of methyl hydrogen phthalate Methanol 300 ml was added in a single portion to 148 g 1.00 mole of phthalic anhydride and the resulting suspension was stirred and heated at reflux for 36 hours solution occurred during heating. The solvent was removed and the product was recrystallized from a mixture of ethyl acetate and hexane to afford 114.6 g of the title compound Lit. Beilstein, 9,797 mp 82.5 , 840 . Synthesis of methyl phthaloyl chloride Methyl hydrogen phthalate 110.0 g., 0.611 mole and thionyl chloride 77.4 g ., 0.650 mole were mixed in 200 ml of chloroform, keeping the temperature below 300.After stirring for two hours at room temperature, the system was heated at reflux for five hours. The solvent was evaporated at reduced pressure and the crude product 120.9 g was used without further purification Lit. Beilstein, 9, 797 no constants . Synthesis of 2 2 carboxybenzoyl 1 methyl Nphenylhydrazine thiocarboxamide I This compound was made by reacting phthalic anhydride with l methyl N phenylhydrazinethiocarboxamide according to conventional procedures, as follows The hydrazinethiocarboxamide was dissolved in about 75 ml of dimethylformamide and placed in a 3 necked round bottomed flask equipped with magnetic stirrer, condenser, additional powder funnel and thermometer. The anhydride was added in portions at 200. The contents were stirred overnight at room temperature, then poured into ice water the following morning.The resulting solid was recrystallized in hexane and ethanol m.p. 155 156 C. Optionally ring substituted pmthalic anhydrides and substituted 2 carbomethoxybenzoyl chlorides may be condensed with substituted l methylhydrazinethiocarboxamides to give desired intermediate compounds as in the following scheme EMI7.1 These methods are illustrated in the following specific procedures. The identity of the product was confirmed in each instance by means of infrared and nuclear magnetic resonance spectra. All melting points are as determined, uncorrected Degrees C. . N Methyl N phenylthiocarbamoyl 2 amino 1Hisoindole 1,3 2H dione II To an ice cold solution of 8.25g 0.025 mole of 2 2 carboxybenzoyl l methyl N phenylhydrazinethio carboxamide in 225 ml of 1,2 dimethoxyethane at 2 C, a solution of 5.5g 0.027 mole of N,N dicyclohexylcarbodiimide was added dropwise below 50C with stirring. The mixture was stirred in the ice bath and then left at room temperature overnight. The mixture was filtered to remove N,N dicyclohexylurea and the filtrate was evaporated below 400C, under vacuum, to give a yellow amorphous solid which was stirred in 100 ml of dry ether and warmed gently. The ether solution was allowed to stand for a few hours and filtered to give 4.6g 59 of whitish yellow crystals, m.p. 142 1440, Recrystallization from ethyl acetate hexane gave whitish crystals, m.p. 151 153 . Mass spectrum M 311 N Methyl N phenylthiocarbamoyl 2 amino 4 methyl lH isoindole 1,3 2H dione To a solution of 6.8g 0.037 mole of l methyl i phenylhydrazinethiocarboxamide and 3.0g of pyridine in 100 ml dry dimethoxyethane, 2 carbomethoxy 6 methylbenzoyl chloride 8.0g, 0.037 mole was added and the resulting mixture was stirred at room temperature for 60 hours. The solvent was distilled and the residue was taken up in ethyl acetate, filtered and dried on anhydrous magnesium sulfate.Removal of the solvent gave 10g 83 of the desired product, m.p. 110 1150 dec. . 2 Amino 1H isoindole 1,3 2H dione To an ice cold suspension of 14.7g 0.1 mole of phthalimide in 100 ml of 95 ethyl alcohol at 5 C, with stirring, 3.6 ml 0.11 mole of 96.8 hydrazine was added dropwise. A slight exothermic reaction was observed and the mixture was allowed to stir at 5 C for two hours. The mixture was diluted with 200 ml of ice water, stirred, filtered, washed with water and dried to give l2.2g 75 of white powder, m.p. 199 2020. Recrystallization from methanol water gave white needles, m.p. 201 2030. N Phenylthiocarbamoyl 2 amino lH isoindole 1,3 2H dione IV To a suspension of 8.2g 0.05 mole of 2 amino lHisoindole 1,3 2H dione in 50 ml of dry 2 propanol, 6 ml 0.05 mole of phenyl isothiocyanate was added. The mixture was stirred and refluxed for 3 hours, allowed to cool to room temperature and poured into 300 ml of 50 ethyl alcohol. After stirring for one hour, the solid which formed was filtered, washed with water and dried to give 12.lg 81 of the desired product as a white powder, m.p. 180 1810. To make compounds in which Ar is benzoyl, benzoyl isothiocyanates may be employed in procedures of the type described above. Example 1 Preparation of 2 1,2 Dimethyl 3 phenylisothio ureido lH isoindole 1,3 2H dione III Method A To a slurry of 3.3g 0.01m of 2 2 carboxybenzoyl 1 methyl N phenylhydrazinethiocarboxamide and 4. 1g 0.03m of potassium carbonate in 100 ml of acetone, was added 4.3g 0.03m of methyl iodide. After stirring at room temperature for 16 hrs, 500 ml of ice water was added and the p H adjusted to 3 with dil HC1. An oil separated which crystallized with continued stirring, was collected and washed with water to give 1.2g 37 yield of product, m.p. 88 900. Method B Six grams 0.019m of N Methyl N phenylthiocarbamoyl 2 amino 1H isoindole 1,3 2H dione was dissolved in 2 ml of DMF and 5 ml of methyl iodide, then stirred at room temperature for 16 hours. To the solid mass was added ethyl acetate and the crystals collected, washed with ethyl acetate and dried to give 7.3g of hydroiodide salt, m.p.145 1480 dec . The free base was obtained by suspending the salt in dilute NH4OH and extracting with CHCl3 which was washed with water, then with saturated aqueous NaCl and dried over anhydrous Na2SO4. Removal of the CHCl3 at re duced pressure in a rotary evaporator gave a residual oil which was crystallized from ether petroleum ether, wt. 4.6g, m.p. 90 91 75 . Example 2 Preparation of 2 2 Methyl 3 phenylisothio ureido lH isoindole 1, 3 2H dione V To 100 ml of dry acetone, 5.0g 0.018m of N phenylthiocarbamoyl 2 amino 1 H isoindole 1,3 2H dione and 2.5g 0.018m powdered anhydrous potassium carbonate was added. To this suspension 1.1 ml 0.018m of methyl iodide was added and the mixture was stirred overnight at room temperature. The mixture was poured into i300 ml of water, stirred, filtered, washed with water and dried to give 4.4g 78 of a yellow powder, m.p. 161 1640. Mass spectrum M 311. Example 3 Preparation of 2 1 Allyl 2 methyl 3 phenyl isothioureido 1 H isoindole 1,3 2H dione To 50 ml of dry acetone, 4.0g 0 013m of the product of Example 2, 2.2g 0.016m of powdered anhydrous potassium carbonate, and 1.4 ml 0.016m of allyl bromide was added in succession and the mixture stirred overnight at room temperature. The mixture was poured into 300 ml of ice water with stirring. The aqueous layer was de canted and the residue suspended in fresh ice cold water, stirred and filtered to give a yellow semisolid product. This was purified by stirring in hexane to give, a yellow powder 1.8g 39 , m.p. 78 810. Example 4 Preparation of 2 1,2 Diallyl 3 phenylisothio ureido l K isoindole 1,3 2H dione A mixture of 100 ml dry acetone, 5.0g 0.018m N phenylthiocarbamoyl 2 amino 1 H isoindole 1,3 2H dione, 6.9g 0.05m powdered anhydrous potassium carbonate, and 4.3 ml 0.05m allyl bromide was stirred overnight at room temperature and evaporated to dryness. The residue was suspended in 50 ml of cold water and the product was extracted with ether. The ether extract, on work up, gave 4.7 g 69 of thick yellow liquid.Use of the Growth Regulators The growth of plants may be regulated by applying the growth regulator compounds to the plants, either on seed, the soil or directly on the plants in an effective amount.If the objective is to combat unwanted vegetation, an amount sufficient to produce severe injury or abnormality of form of growth is usually sufficient. Sometimes the unwanted vegetation continues to live for a time but is stunted or distorted so that it cannot compete with crop plants and eventually succumbs to shading by the crop, or failure to obtain or to assimilate nutrients in the manner of a normal plant. An effect which is occasionally observed upon preemergent application is a loss of geotropic orientation upon germination of seed. In extreme cases roots may grow upward out of the soil, while leaves remain beneath the surface. Naturally the plants do not survive for long in this upsidedown orientation. However, they can be transplanted and made to survive, which indicates that the growth regulant in one sense is not very phytotoxic. The survival rate of affected plants is much greater when the growth regulants are applied p6st emergently, because the plants are already past the critical stages of emergence and growth of foliage and a root system. Retarded growth, with some abnormalities of form, accompanied by an increase in chlorophyl concentration in foliage is sometimes observed after post emergent application. This combination of properties is particularly desirable for use on turf, to obtain a good color and reduce the frequency of cutting. In highly active compounds, phytotoxic effects of pre emergent and post emergent application are often readily apparent. These effects may be demonstrated by means of the following illustrative procedures.Pre emergent Application Disposable paper trays about 2 1 2 inches deep were filled with soil and sprayed with aqueous spray mixtures at a rate of 5 lb. of active chemical per acre of sprayed area, were seeded with 6 species of plant seeds and were then covered with about 1 4 inch of soil. The spray mixtures were prepared by dissolving the proper amount of growth regulant compound in 15 ml of acetone, adding 4 ml of a solvent emulsifer mixture consisting of 60 wt. percent of a commercial polyoxyethylated vegetable oil emulsifier 96 wt. percent active ingredient, EmulphorEL 719 , 20 wt. percent xylene and 20 wt. percent deodorized kerosene, then bringing total volume up to 60 ml by addition of warm water. Twenty one days after seeding and treatment the plantings were examined and plant injury was rated according to the following schedule. DEGREE OF EFFECT 0 no effect 1 slight effect, plants recovered 2 moderate effect, injury to 26 to 75 percent 3 severe effect, injury to 76 to 99 percent of foliage 4 maximum effect all plants died Post emergent Application Several species of plants were grown in potting soil in disposable styrofoam trays and tomatoes were grown in four inch pots in the greenhouse. Aqueous spray formulations were prepared and the growing plants were sprayed at a spray volume of 60 gallons per acre and an application rate of 5 lb. per acre. Spray mixtures were prepared in the manner described above. For comparative purposes, plants were also sprayed at 60 gal. acre with a spray mixture containing no growth regulator.Plant injury was again rated according to the schedule disclosed above and observations of growth regulant effects in both pre and post emergent tests were observed and recorded as follows Effect Abbreviation in TablesFormative effect on new growth FEpinasty EGrowth reduction GNecrosis NNon emergence K In the table below there are tabulated various compounds which have been made according to the above illustrative procedures, as well as observations of preand post emergent herbicidal and growth regulant effects.Some of the compounds were tested in the form of the hydrohalide salts, resulting from alkylation with alkyl halides.These compounds are identified under the column titled salt type . TABLE I PART ACompounds of the formulaEMI14.1 Comments onCompnd. S lt No 1 2 3 Type M.P. C utility 2878 CH3 CH3 n O n 0 BB 900 Increases chlorophyl 2960 allyl CH3 n 0 n 0 oil I reases chlorophyl in foliage. E inestv on alfalfa 2961 benzyl CH3 n 0 n 0 oil Increases pod set of soybeans. 3062 CH3 H n 0 n 0 161 4 3099 CH3 CH3 3 f n 0 62 5 Defoliates cotton. Kills pigweed. 3100 CH2CH3 CH3 n 0 n 0 80 2 Defoliates cotton. Kills pigweed. 3101 allyl CH3 3 F n 0 oil Defoliates cotton. Kills pigweed. 3102 benzyl CH3 3 F n 0 oil 3104 CH3 CH3 2,4 CH3 2 n n 107 9 3105 n propyl CH3 n 0 n 0 oil Defoli tes cotton. kills pigweed. 4 Br 3110 CH3 n 0 n 0 oil Controls pigweed. Benzyl 3111 CH2Co C CH3 3 CH3 n 0 n 0 HBr 135 8 Promotes tillering of oats. 3129 CH3 CH3 2.6 CH3 2 n 0 137 40 3,4 Xills lambsquarter 3130 CH3 CH3 CH CH CH CH n 0 Was post emerg. 3134 CH3 CH3 2,4,4 CH3 3 n 0 oil 3135 CH3 CH3 2,5 CH3 2 n 0 122 4 TABLE I PART ACompounds of the formulaEMI15.1 EMI15.2 tb SEP Corrents SEP on tb Compnd. SEP Salt SEP Utility tb SEP No, SEP R SEP R1 SEP R2 n SEP R3 n SEP Type SEP M.P. SEP oC. SEP M.p.CC. tb SEP Defoliates SEP cotton. tb SEP 3141 SEP CH3 SEP CH3 SEP n 0 SEP n O SEP HI SEP 145 8 SEP Kills SEP pigweed. tb SEP dec. tb SEP 3143 SEP Allyl SEP CH3 SEP n O SEP n O SEP HBr SEP 117 8 SEP . SEP Controls SEP pigweed. tb SEP Defoliates SEP cotton. tb SEP 3144 SEP benzyl SEP CH3 SEP n 0 SEP n 0 SEP HBr SEP 147 8 SEP Kills SEP pigweed. tb SEP 3171 SEP CH SEP CH SEP SEP n 0 SEP n O SEP 75 80 tb SEP Promotes SEP tillering tb SEP 3176 SEP CH3 SEP Allyl SEP n O SEP n O SEP 78 810 SEP of SEP oats tb SEP 3191 SEP CH3 SEP CH3 SEP 2t3 CH3 2n 0 SEP 95 70 tb SEP 3192 SEP CH3 SEP CH3 SEP 4 phenoxy SEP n O SEP 159 62 tb SEP 3193 SEP CH3 SEP CH3 SEP 4 n butyl SEP n O SEP oil tb SEP 0 tb SEP 1 tb SEP 3205 SEP CH2 C O SEP CH3 SEP n O SEP n 0 SEP HBr SEP 166 8 tb SEP 3206 SEP SEP CH3 SEP n O SEP nl n SEP n O tb SEP 3215 SEP CH3 SEP CH2C CH SEP n 0 SEP n 0 SEP oil tb SEP Increases SEP tomato tb SEP 3216 SEP allyl SEP allyl SEP n 0 SEP n O SEP oil SEP fruit SEP set. Heart tb SEP shaped SEP fruit tb SEP 3218 SEP CH3 SEP H SEP 4 CH3 SEP n 0 SEP 151 30 tb SEP 3219 SEP allyl SEP H SEP 4 CH3 SEP n C SEP 128 30 tb SEP 3220 SEP CH3 SEP CH3 SEP 4 CH3 SEP n 0 SEP 111 1140 tb TABLE I PART ACompounds of the formulaEMI16.1 EMI16.2 tb Comments SEP Salt SEP Corrinents SEP on tb Compnd. SEP Salt tb SEP No. SEP R SEP R1 SEP R2 n SEP R3 n SEP Type SEP M.P. C. SEP Utility tb SEP 3221 SEP CH3 SEP allyl SEP 4 CH3 SEP n O SEP oil tb SEP 3222 SEP allyl SEP H SEP n D SEP n O SEP 60 61 SEP increases SEP tomato tb SEP fruit SEP set. tb SEP fruit SEP 3,3 dirnethyl SEP H SEP n O SEP set. SEP ll570 tb 325l SEP 3,3 dimethyl SEP H SEP n 0 SEP n 0 SEP 115 7 tb SEP allyl tb SEP 0 tb SEP I, tb SEP 3274 SEP CH3 SEP CHZ C P SEP n O SEP n O SEP oil tb SEP Et tb SEP 3276 SEP CH3 SEP H SEP 3 CH3 SEP n 0 SEP 158 9 tb SEP 3277 SEP CH3 SEP CH3 SEP 3 cR3 SEP n O SEP oil SEP Increases SEP tomato tb SEP fruit SEP allyl SEP allyl SEP 3 cR SEP fruit SEP set, SEP tiller tb SEP 3278 SEP allyl SEP allyl SEP 3 CH3 SEP n 0 SEP oil SEP ing SEP of SEP oats. tb SEP 3292 SEP CR2C CH SEP CH3 SEP 3 F SEP n O SEP HBr SEP 140 1 SEP Increases SEP fruit tb SEP set SEP CR SEP C CH SEP CR SEP set SEP on SEP tomatoes, tb 3293 SEP CH SEP C CH SEP CH3 SEP 3 F SEP n O SEP 90 2 SEP tillering SEP of SEP oats, tb SEP controls SEP crabsrass tb SEP 3294 SEP CH3 SEP CH3 SEP 3 Cl SEP n O SEP oil SEP Increases SEP tomate tb SEP fruit SEP set, SEP tiller tb SEP ing SEP of SEP oats, SEP con tb SEP trols SEP crabgrass. tb SEP 3295 SEP CH SEP CR3 SEP 3,4 C1 SEP n 0 SEP 124 7 SEP Increases SEP tiller tb SEP ing SEP of SEP oats. tb SEP 3296 SEP CH3 SEP H SEP 3 C1 SEP n O SEP 198 200 tb SEP 3297 SEP CH3 SEP H SEP 3,4 C12 SEP n 0 SEP 182 3 tb SEP 3298 SEP CH3 SEP allyl SEP 3 Cl SEP n O SEP 102 4 tb TABLE I PART ACompounds of the formulaEMI17.1 Comments onCompnd. 2 Salt R RÚ Rê n Type M.P. C. 3283 allyl CH3 2,5 CH3 2 HBr 129 130 3287 allyl CH3 2,5 CH3 2 Syrup 3409 CH2COOC2H5 4 F HBr 169 171 3410 CH2COOC2H5 4 F 83 85 3411 CH2COOC2H5 3 F HBr 138 140 3497 C2H5 H n 0 130 138 3500 C2H5 allyl n 0 Syrup 3627 CH3 CH3 3 CF3 Oil Increases fruit 3 set 3628 CH3 CH3 4 Cl 123 125 Increases truit set 3629 CH2CH2CH2 4 C1 100 130 3631 benzyl H 4 Cl 168 170 3632 benzyl CH3 4 Cl 113 115 Increases fruit set 3633 benzyl 2 ropynyl 4 C1 Oil Increases fruit set 3635 benzyl benzyl 4 C1 103 105 Increases fruit set 3637 CH acetyl 3,4 Cl2 143 145 TABLE I PART ACompounds of the formulaEMI18.1 Coirsr.ents onCompnd. Salt No. R RÚ R2 n R3 n Type M.P. C.Utility 3299 CH3 CH2C CH 3 C1 nxzO oil 3300 CH3 3 Cl n 0 oil Et 3302 CH3 allyl 3,4 Cl2 n O 90 2 3303 CH3 CH2C CH 3,4 Cl2 n O oil 3339 CH3 benzyl 3,4 Cl2 n 0 oil 3348 CH2CH2CH2 n 0 n 0 193 5 3340 n butyl H 3,4 C12 n O 165 7 3342 CH2 S CH3 H 3 C1 n O crude oil 3344 n butyl CH3 3,4 Cl2 n O 98 101 Increased fruit set 3346 CH2 S CH3 CH3 3 C1 n 0 77 80 Increased fruit set 3328 CH3 H n 0 3 CH3 180 4 3329 CH3 CH3 n O 3 CH3 oil 3331 CH3 CH3 n 0 3 CH3 135 136 3332 CH3 H n 0 4,5,6,7 265 70 tetrachloro TABLE I PART ACompounds of the formulaEMI19.1 Compnd. Salt Comments on No. R RÚ Rê n Type M.P. C.Utility 3700 CH3 CH3 4 NO2 152 155 Oat tillered in creased fruit set 3701 benzyl H 4 NO2 182 184 3 02 CH2COC 6R5 H 149 152 3703 4 pentenyl H 79 81 3704 2,6 dichloro benzyl H H 176 178 All plants taller except tomato 3705 4 methy1 H H 163 165 benzyl 3706 3 phenoxy H H 100 103 Alfalfa very tall propyl 3707 benzyl CH3 4 NO2 122 125 Increased fruit set 3708 benzyl 2 propynyl 4 NO2 94 97 3709 2,6 dichloro benzyl CH3 H 165 167 Increased truit set 3710 4 methyl CH N Oil Increased fruit benzyl set and oat tillers 3731 CH3 H 4 OCH3 197 199 Increased fruit set TABLE I PART ACompounds of the formulaEMI20.1 EMI20.2 tb SEP Corrmcnts SEP on tb Compnd. SEP Salt SEP Corrments SEP on tb SEP No. SEP R SEP R tb SEP C2Hg SEP H SEP 4 DCH3 SEP 195 197 tb 3732 SEP C SEP 2R5 SEP R SEP 4 OCR3 SEP 195 19 tb 3733 SEP CH3 SEP CH3 SEP 3 Cl SEP 126 129 SEP Increases SEP fruit tb SEP 4 CR1 tb SEP 3 SEP set tb 3734 SEP C2H5 SEP H SEP 3 Cl tb SEP 4 CH3 SEP 166 168 tb SEP 3 tb 3749 SEP propyl SEP H SEP H SEP 104 106 tb 3750 SEP propyl SEP allyl SEP H SEP 80 82 SEP Increased SEP oat tb SEP tillered SEP fruit tb SEP set tb 3751 SEP isopropyl SEP H SEP H SEP 132 I SEP 34 tb 3752 SEP isopropyl SEP CH3 SEP H SEP dec. SEP 85 SEP Increased SEP fruit tb SEP set tb 3780 SEP CH3 SEP CH3 SEP 4 OCH3 SEP 105 108 tb 3781 SEP C2 SEP 5 SEP CH3 SEP 4 OCH3 SEP 85 88 tb SEP 3C1 tb 3782 SEP C2 SEP 5 SEP CH3 SEP 4 CH3 tb SEP 4 CR3 SEP 1C4 1C6 SEP Increased SEP frut tb SEP Set tb 3783 SEP CH3 SEP CH3 SEP 2 CH3 SEP Oil SEP Increased SEP fruit tb SEP set tb 3784 SEP C2H5 SEP H SEP 2 CH3 SEP 135 137 tb TABLE I PART ACompounds of the formulaEMI21.1 Comments onCompnd. Salt Utility NO. R RÚ Rê n Type M.P. C. 3785 C2H5 CH3 2 CH3 oil Increases fruit set 3786 Ch3 CH3 2 C1 Oil Increases fruit set 3787 C2H5 H 2 C1 116 118 Increases fruit 3788 CH3 CH3 4 F 82 85 set 3789 C2H5 H 4 F 183 185 3790 CH3 H 3 F 204 206 Increases fruit set 3791 C2H5 CH3 2 Cl oil Increases fruit set 3792 C2H5 CH3 4 F oil Increases fruit set 3793 CH H 2 CH3 165 168 3 C1 3794 CH3 H 4 b tyl 127 130 3795 C2H5 H 4 butyl 107 109 3796 CH3 CH3 4 isopropyl 111 114 Increases fruit set TABLE I PART ACompounds of the formulaEMI22.1 EMI22.2 tb SEP Comments SEP on tb Compnd. SEP Salt tb SEP No. SEP R SEP R SEP R2 SEP n SEP Type SEP M.P.OC. SEP Utility tb SEP 3797 SEP C2R5 SEP H SEP 4 C3H7 SEP 142 144 tb SEP 3798 SEP CH3 SEP CH SEP 2 Cll SEP 106 108 tb SEP 3 SEP 1 tb SEP 6 CH3 tb SEP 3799 SEP C SEP R SEP H tb SEP 25 SEP 2 Cl1 SEP 172 174 tb SEP 6 CH3 tb SEP 3800 SEP benzyl SEP H SEP H SEP 115 116 tb SEP 3812 SEP isopropyl SEP allyl SEP H SEP 87 90 SEP Increased SEP tillers, tb SEP fruit SEP set tb SEP 3813 SEP butyl SEP H SEP H SEP 119 121 tb SEP 3814 SEP butyl SEP CH SEP H SEP dec.65 SEP Increased SEP tillers, tb SEP fruit SEP set tb SEP 3815 SEP butyl SEP allyl SEP H SEP Syrup SEP Increased SEP fruit tb SEP set tb SEP 3816 SEP isobutyl SEP H SEP H SEP 137 139 tb SEP 3849 SEP isobutyl SEP CH3 SEP H SEP dec.65 SEP Increased SEP fruit tb SEP set, SEP tillers tb SEP 3850 SEP isobutyl SEP allyl SEP H SEP 62 65 SEP Increased SEP fruit tb SEP set tb SEP O SEP set tb SEP 3851 SEP CH2COC2H5 SEP H SEP H SEP semi tb SEP solid tb TABLE I PART ACompounds of the formulaEMI23.1 Comments on Coepnd. Salt Utility Type M.P. C. 3977 CN CH3 n O dec.145 4017 CH3 H 3 benzyloxy 106 108 4019 CH3 H 3 NO2 192 193 Increases fruit set 4020 C2H5 H 3 NO2 192 195 Increases furit set 4021 CH3 H 4 benzyloxy 130 133 4023 CH3 CH3 3CF3 95 97 Increases fruit 4 Cl set, tillers 4025 CH3 H 2 CF3 156 159 Increases fruit set, tillers 4026 CH3 CH3 3 benzyloxy 83 85 4027 CH3 CH3 3 NO2 105 108 Increased fruit set, elongated growth 4028 CH3 CH3 4 benzyloxy 87 90 4029 CH3 CH3 2.6 Cl2 Oil TABLE I PART ACompounds of the formulaEMI24.1 Comments on Compnd. Salt NO. R RÚ R Type M.P. C. 4030 CH3 CH3 2 CF3 oil Increased fruit set, tillers set, fruit 4033 CH3 H 3 OCH3 158 160 Increased fruit set 4034 C2 5 H 3 OCH3 103 105 4035 CH3 H 3,5 CH3 2 200 202 Increased fruit set 4036 C2H5 H 3,5 CH3 2 129 131 4062 2 2,4 CH3 n 0 108 110 Increased fruit set elongated dichloro phenoxy ethyl 4063 CH3 CH3 3 OCH3 85 88 Increased fruit set and tillers 4064 CH3 CH3 3 SCH3 91 94 Fruit set. tillers 4065 C2H5 H 3 SCH3 127 129 4066 CH3 CH3 2 Cl1 90 92 More fruit set 4 CH3 TABLE I PART ACompounds of the formulaEMI25.1 EMI25.2 tb SEP Comments SEP on tb compne. SEP Salt tb SEP No. SEP , SEP R SEP R SEP R1 SEP R2 n SEP Type SEP M.p.0C. SEP Utility tb SEP 4068 SEP CH3 SEP CH3 SEP 3 CCR3 SEP 109 111 SEP Fruit SEP set tb SEP tillers tb SEP 0 tb SEP 4070 SEP CH3 SEP CH3 SEP 4 COCH3 SEP 144 145 SEP Fruit SEP set tb SEP 4115 SEP CH3 SEP CH3 SEP 4 CN SEP 175 178 SEP Fruit SEP set tb SEP 4116 SEP CH3 SEP H SEP 4 N C2H5 2 SEP 187 188 SEP Fruit SEP set tb SEP 4117 SEP CH3 SEP CH3 SEP 4 CF3 SEP 131 133 tb SEP 4118 SEP CH3 SEP CH3 SEP 2 CR3 SEP 86 88 SEP Fruit SEP set, tb SEP tillers tb SEP 4 Cl tb SEP 4119 SEP CH3 SEP CH3 SEP 3,4 OCR2O SEP 114 117 SEP Fruit SEP set, SEP tillers tb SEP 4120 SEP CH3 SEP CH3 SEP 2,4 Cl2 SEP 84 86 SEP Fruit SEP set, SEP tillers tb SEP 4121 SEP C2R5 SEP H SEP 2,4 C12 SEP 128 130 SEP Inc. SEP fruit SEP set, tb SEP tillers tb SEP 4122 SEP CH3 SEP H SEP 4 OEt SEP 162 165 SEP Tillers tb SEP 4123 SEP C2N5 SEP H SEP 4 OEt SEP 142 144 tb SEP 4124 SEP CH3 SEP H SEP 2 F SEP 139 141 SEP Good SEP fruit SEP set tb SEP 4125 SEP C2R5 SEP H SEP 2 F SEP 110 112 SEP Fruit SEP set tb SEP 4126 SEP CH3 SEP CH3 SEP 4 OEt SEP 114 116 SEP Dark SEP green, tb SEP tillers tb TABLE I PART ACompounds of the formulaEMI26.1 Comments onCompnd. Salt U No. R RÚ Rê n Type M.P. C. 4127 CH3 CH3 2 F 87 89 Fruit set, tillers 4128 C2H5 CH3 2,4 C12 86 88 Fruit set 4129 C 2R5 CH3 4 OEt 102 1Q6 Fruit set 4130 C2H5 CH3 2 F 79 81 Fruit set 4259 CH3 CH3 3,4 CH2CH2CH2 Semi Fruit set solid solid 4261 CH3 CH3 3 COOEt 143 146 4262 C2H5 CH3 3,4 CH2CH2CH2 Oil Fruit set 4263 C2H5 CH3 3 COOEt 98 101 4264 propyl CH3 2,4 C12 85 87 Fruit set 4290 cH2CH CH2 CHE 4 CF3 Oil Fruit set 4291 2 2,4 CH3 2 F Oil dichloro phenoxy ethyl 4292 CH2CH CH2 CH3 3,4 OCH2O Oil 4293 4 fluoro H 4 F 98 101 benzoyl methyl TABLE I PART ACompounds of the formulaEMI27.1 Comments onCompnd. Salt No. R R R2 n Type M.P. C.Utility 4329 1 benzoyl CH3 4 OCH3 80 83 ethyl 4330 4 fluoro CH3 2 CH3 benzoyl 3 3 78 81 Fruit set methyl 4331 4 fluoro CH3 2 C1 75 78 Fruit set benzoyl methyl 4332 4 fluoro CH3 2 F 60 63 Fruit set oat benzoyl tillers methyl 4333 2 N ethyl H n 0 184 186 tillers N phenyl carbamyl ethyl 4355 CH2COOH CH3 n C CH2CH2OCH CH2 n 0 115 120 Tillers 4373 CH3 2 phenoxy ethyl n O Glass Fruit set tillers 4374 CH3 n 0 147 149 Fruit set dec. 4375 CH3 3 chlorobenzyl HBr Glass Fruit set TABLE I PART ACompounds of the formulaEMI28.1 Comments onCompnd. Salt NO R R R n Type M.P. C. 4429 CH3 isopropyl n 0 116 118 4230 C2H5 isopropyl n 0 170 172 4496 4 pyridyl H n 0 183 185 methyl 4497 2 H n 0 168 171 4498 3 N H n 0 2Q2 205 4499 4 H 3 F 75 80 4500 2 H 3 F 195 197 4501 3 H H 3 F 183 186 Increased fruit set 4502 4 CH3 n 0 llQ 115 4503 3 CH3 n 0 79 81 4504 2 CH3 3 F 109 112 4505 3 CH3 3 F 170 175 TABLE I PART ACompounds of the formulaEMI29.1 EMI29.2 tb SEP Comments SEP on tb Compnd. SEP Salt SEP Type SEP M.P. C SEP Utility tb SEP No. tb SEP 4455 SEP N N tb SEP CI1ZF HIIYjlCF3 SEP R SEP n O SEP 213 215 tb SEP o tb SEP 4456 SEP C SEP CR3 2 SEP H SEP n 0 SEP 193 196 tb SEP benzoyl tb SEP 4457 SEP 3 phenyl SEP CH SEP n 0 SEP Oil SEP Tillers tb SEP allyl SEP 3 tb SEP 4458 SEP 3 phenyl SEP H SEP 3F SEP Oil SEP Tillers tb SEP allyl tb SEP 44S9 SEP C SEP CR3 2 SEP H SEP 3F SEP 150 153 tb SEP berizoyl tb SEP 4460 SEP CH2CH2CF CF2 SEP H SEP n C SEP 110 112 tb SEP 4461 SEP 2 SEP N ethyl SEP CH3 SEP 3 F SEP Oil SEP Fruit SEP set SEP tillers tb SEP N phenyl tb SEP carbemyl tb SEP ethyl tb SEP 4462 SEP CH2CH2CP CF2 SEP CH3 SEP 3 F SEP 60 62 SEP Fruit SEP set SEP tillers tb SEP 4463 SEP CH2CH2CF CF2 SEP CH3 SEP n C SEP Oil SEP Fruit SEP set SEP tillers tb SEP 4313 SEP CH3 SEP 3 SEP n C SEP 134 138 tb SEP 4359 SEP CH3 SEP C2H5 SEP n 0 SEP 114 116 SEP Fruit SEP set tb SEP 4 6C SEP c2H SEP C2H5 SEP n 0 SEP 1C7 1C8 SEP Fruit SEP set tb TABLE I PART ACompounds of the formulaEMI30.1 Comments onCompnd.No. R Rê Ar Rê n M.P. C. Utility 4258 CH3 CH3 3 methyl 169 172 Increased fruit benzoyl set TABLE Ia PART BEFFECTS ON PLANT SPECIESEMI31.1 tb SEP Preemergent SEP Effects SEP Postcmergent SEP Effects tb SEP v SEP .c SEP v SEP 4 SEP c SEP o tb SEP k SEP ç SEP v tb Compnd. SEP X SEP X SEP SEP .Ln SEP v, SEP v SEP z SEP W SEP v SEP SEP v SEP E SEP u tb SEP S tb SEP No. SEP o SEP SEP V SEP V SEP 5t SEP E tb SEP No. SEP h SEP h SEP , SEP a SEP O SEP SEP ,4 SEP O tb SEP 0 SEP O SEP Le SEP tntn SEP x SEP m SEP o, SEP 0 tb SEP 2878 SEP U SEP F3G3 SEP F3G3 SEP F3G3 SEP F3G2 SEP SEP N2G3 SEP F3G2 SEP o SEP N2Gl SEP F2G2 SEP F3 tb SEP 2878 SEP K4 SEP F3G3 SEP F3G3 SEP F3G3 SEP F3G2 SEP K4 SEP N2G3 SEP F3G2 SEP 0 SEP N2G1 SEP F2G2 SEP F3 tb SEP 2960 SEP F3G3 SEP F3G3 SEP F3G3 SEP F3G3 SEP F3G2 SEP K4 SEP F1 SEP F2G2 SEP F1 SEP F1GZ SEP F2 tb SEP 2961 SEP K4 SEP F3G3 SEP F3G3 SEP F3G3 SEP F2G2 SEP K4 SEP N2G2 SEP F2G2 SEP F2G2 SEP F2G3 SEP F1G2 SEP F3G2 tb SEP 3062 SEP C SEP C SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP F2G2 SEP 0 tb SEP 3099 SEP F3G3 SEP F2G2 SEP F3G3 SEP F3G3 SEP F3G2 SEP K4 SEP F1G2 SEP F3G2 SEP FlGl SEP F3G2 SEP F1G3 SEP NlF2 tb SEP 3100 SEP K4 SEP F2G2 SEP F3G3 SEP P3G3 SEP F262 SEP K4 SEP F SEP 2 SEP F3G2 SEP N1 SEP F2 SEP F2G2 SEP F3 tb SEP NlG1 SEP FG2 SEP f 4 SEP NlG2 tb SEP 3101 SEP F3G2 SEP F2G1 SEP F3G3 SEP F2G3 SEP F2G1 SEP F2G2 SEP all SEP F2 SEP F2 SEP N1F2 SEP N1FG2 SEP F1 tb SEP NlG1 SEP N2C2 SEP NlG2 SEP F2G2 SEP F2Gl tb SEP 3102 SEP F2G1 SEP FlG1 SEP F2 SEP F3G2 SEP FlGl SEP F1 SEP Fl SEP F2G1 SEP NlFl SEP F2G2 SEP F2G2 SEP F3G1 tb SEP NlGl tb SEP 3104 SEP FlGl SEP 0 SEP F2 SEP F2 SEP F1 SEP F1 SEP N1 SEP F1 SEP NlGl SEP F1 SEP F2G1 SEP F2 tb SEP F3 tb SEP 3105 SEP F3G3 SEP F2G1 SEP F3G3 SEP F3G3 SEP F3G2 SEP F4 SEP N1G3 SEP F3G2 SEP NlFl SEP Fly2 SEP F2G2 SEP F2 tb SEP 3110 SEP K4 SEP F2G1 SEP F3G2 SEP F3G3 SEP F2G2 SEP K4 SEP F1 SEP F2G2 SEP NlGl SEP FlG1 SEP F2G2 SEP F2 tb SEP NlG tb SEP 3111 tb SEP F3G3 SEP F2G1 SEP F3G3 SEP F3G3 SEP F2G1 SEP K4 SEP F2 SEP F3G2 SEP F2 SEP F2G2 SEP F2G2 SEP F3G2 tb SEP NlG2 tb SEP 3129 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP C SEP NlFl SEP C tb SEP 3130 SEP F2 SEP C SEP F2 SEP F3 tb SEP 3134 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP C SEP SEP SEP o SEP o SEP F1 SEP N1 SEP o SEP F2G1 SEP F2 tb SEP 3135 SEP FlGl SEP C SEP F1 SEP F2G2 SEP G2 SEP C SEP F2G1 SEP F2 SEP F1 SEP F1 SEP F2G2 SEP F3 tb TABLE Ia PART BEFFECTS ON PLANT SPECIESEMI32.1 tb SEP Preemeraent SEP Effects SEP Post SEP emergent SEP Effects tb SEP 0 tb SEP I SEP VI SEP a SEP v SEP v, SEP I SEP W SEP S SEP O SEP e SEP a tb SEP Ln SEP I SEP S SEP a SEP a tb Compnd. SEP SEP 0 SEP V SEP i SEP ti SEP , SEP E tb SEP No. SEP ú SEP u SEP U SEP SEP 2 SEP a SEP , SEP a SEP a SEP a SEP a SEP 0 tb SEP SEP tb SEP F2 SEP F3 tb SEP 3141 SEP K4 SEP F3G3 SEP K4 SEP K4 SEP F3G3 SEP K4 SEP N3G3 SEP N2G3 SEP FlG2 SEP F2 SEP F2 tb SEP N2G3 SEP 2G3 SEP 2G3 SEP N2G3 SEP F3 tb SEP 3143 SEP F3G3 SEP F2G2 SEP F3G3 SEP F3G3 SEP F2G2 SEP K4 SEP N2G3 SEP F3G2 SEP Fl SEP F2G2 SEP F2G1 SEP F3G1 tb SEP N2G3 tb SEP 3144 SEP X4 SEP N4 SEP F3G3 SEP F3G3 SEP F2G2 SEP F2Gl SEP Fl SEP F3G2 SEP NlFl SEP F2 SEP F2G2 SEP F3 tb SEP N2Gl SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP O SEP NlG2 tb SEP 3171 SEP C SEP C SEP C SEP C SEP C SEP C SEP C SEP Fl SEP Nl SEP Fl SEP F1 SEP F2 tb SEP NlGl tb SEP 3176 SEP F3G3 SEP F3G3 SEP F3G3 SEP F3G3 SEP F2G2 SEP F3G3 SEP F2 SEP F3G2 SEP NlF2 SEP F1 SEP F2G3 SEP F3 tb SEP 3191 SEP FlGl SEP F1 SEP F3G1 SEP F3G3 SEP F3G2 SEP F3G2 SEP NlFl SEP F2 SEP F1 SEP F2 SEP F2G2 SEP F2 tb SEP 3192 SEP 0 SEP C SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP C SEP F1 SEP C tb SEP 3193 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP F2 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP C SEP O SEP F1 SEP Fl SEP F1 SEP F1G3 SEP 0 tb SEP F3 SEP F3 tb SEP 3205 SEP K4 SEP K4 SEP F3G3 SEP F3G3 SEP F3G2 SEP F3G3 SEP N3G3 SEP G3 SEP F1G2 SEP F2G2 SEP F2G3 SEP F3 tb SEP 3206 SEP F3G3 SEP F3G3 SEP F3G3 SEP F3G3 SEP F3G2 SEP K4 SEP F2 SEP F2G3 SEP 0 SEP F2G2 SEP F2G3 SEP F3 tb SEP NlG2 tb SEP 3215 SEP F3G2 SEP F2G1 SEP F3G3 SEP F3G2 SEP F2G2 SEP F3G3 SEP 0 SEP G2F3 SEP F1 SEP F2 SEP F2G2 SEP F3G1 tb SEP 3216 SEP F3G3 SEP F3G3 SEP K4 SEP F3G3 SEP F3G2 SEP F3G3 SEP F1 SEP F3 SEP F2 SEP F2 SEP F2G3 SEP F2 tb SEP F2 tb SEP 3218 SEP 0 SEP C SEP F1 SEP C SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP SEP Nag2 SEP SEP Nl SEP F3G2 SEP 0 tb SEP 3219 SEP FlGl SEP C SEP F2 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP C SEP N1 SEP F3G2 SEP F1 SEP F1 SEP F2G2 SEP F1 tb SEP F3 tb SEP 3220 SEP F3G3 SEP F2G2 SEP X4 SEP F3G3 SEP F3G3 SEP F2G2 SEP NlG2 SEP F3G2 SEP F1 SEP FlGl SEP F3G3 SEP F3G1 tb TABLE Ia PART BEFFECTS ON PLANT SPECIESEMI33.1 tb SEP Preemergent SEP Effects SEP Postemergent SEP Effects tb SEP 0 tb SEP I SEP tn SEP e SEP II tb SEP n SEP I SEP E SEP e SEP tb Compnd. SEP ú SEP O SEP x SEP 0 SEP H SEP IG SEP V SEP SEP O SEP L SEP m SEP Es tb SEP No SEP m SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 0 tb 4 SEP 0 SEP .a SEP E tb SEP 3221 SEP F3G3 SEP F3G3 SEP F3G2 SEP F3G3 SEP F3G2 SEP F2G2 SEP F1 SEP FlGl SEP F1 SEP F2 SEP F2G2 SEP FlGl tb SEP 3222 SEP F1 SEP C SEP F1 SEP C SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP F2G1 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP F1G2 SEP 0 tb SEP 3251 SEP 0 SEP C SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP G SEP 0 SEP C SEP F1 SEP C SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 tb SEP 3274 SEP F1 SEP Q SEP F2 SEP F2 SEP F1 SEP SEP N1 SEP NlFl SEP C SEP NlCl SEP F2G3 SEP NlFl tb SEP 3276 SEP C SEP C SEP F2 SEP F2 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP C SEP F2 SEP C SEP F1 SEP F2G2 SEP 0 tb SEP 3277 SEP F3G3 SEP F2G2 SEP F3G3 SEP F3G3 SEP F3G2 SEP F3G2 SEP FlGl SEP F3G3 SEP FlGl SEP F2G1 SEP F2 SEP 3 SEP F2 tb SEP N2G3 tb SEP 3278 SEP F2G1 SEP F2 SEP F2 SEP F2G1 SEP FlGl SEP FlGl SEP C SEP F2G1 SEP F1 SEP C SEP F3G2 SEP Q tb SEP 3292 SEP F3G3 SEP F3G2 SEP F3G3 SEP F3G3 SEP F3G3 SEP F3G3 SEP N1G2 SEP F3G2 SEP F2 SEP F3G2 SEP F2G3 SEP F2 tb SEP 3293 tb SEP 3294 SEP F2G2 SEP F2G2 SEP F3G3 SEP F3G2 SEP F2G2 SEP X4 SEP FlGl SEP F3G2 SEP F2 SEP F3G2 SEP F3G2 SEP F1 tb SEP 3295 SEP F2 SEP F1 SEP F2 SEP F1 SEP F1 SEP F1 SEP Q SEP F3G2 SEP F1 SEP F2G2 SEP F3G3 SEP F2 tb SEP 3296 SEP o SEP C SEP F1 SEP F1 SEP C SEP SEP C SEP F1 SEP C SEP C SEP F2G2 SEP tb SEP 3297 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP C SEP 0 SEP C SEP Fl SEP C SEP C SEP FlGl SEP F1 tb SEP 3298 tb TABLE Ia PART BEFFECTS ON PLANT SPECIESEMI34.1 tb SEP Preemerdent SEP Effects SEP Postcmergent SEP Effects tb SEP fi SEP z SEP W SEP u SEP P SEP o tb SEP I SEP DA SEP S SEP k SEP S SEP H tb nd SEP SEP E SEP H SEP alp SEP S tb SEP 55 SEP . SEP zQ SEP X SEP X SEP i SEP E SEP SEP SEP V SEP .9 SEP SEP SEP U SEP V SEP ç SEP E tb SEP No. SEP o SEP 0 SEP H SEP S SEP H SEP H SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP SEP S SEP 0 tb SEP D SEP uo SEP m SEP U SEP t SEP tncL SEP r SEP o tb SEP 3283 SEP F1 SEP F1 SEP F2 SEP F2c 2 SEP F1 SEP F1 SEP C SEP 0 SEP C SEP FlC l SEP F2G3 SEP N1 tb SEP 3287 SEP 0 SEP F1 SEP F1 SEP F2G1 SEP FlGl SEP FlGl SEP C SEP C SEP F1 SEP C SEP F1G2 SEP Nl tb SEP 3409 SEP F3G3 SEP K4 SEP K4 SEP F3G3 SEP F3G3 SEP X4 SEP N SEP F2 SEP F3G3 SEP Fl SEP F3G3 SEP F3G2 SEP F3 tb SEP Nl C2 SEP NlGl tb SEP 3410 SEP F3G3 SEP K4 SEP X4 SEP F3G3 SEP F3G3 SEP K4 SEP F2 SEP PZ SEP F3G3 SEP G2 SEP F2G2 SEP F3G3 SEP F3 tb SEP NlG2 tb SEP 3411 SEP F3G3 SEP R4 SEP K4 SEP F3G3 SEP K4 SEP K4 SEP N2t3 SEP F3G2 SEP G2F1 SEP Fl SEP F2G3 SEP F2G3 tb SEP N2G3 tb SEP 3497 SEP F2G2 SEP F1 SEP F3G1 SEP F3Gl SEP FlGl SEP F2G1 SEP O SEP F2G1 SEP C SEP Nl SEP F3G1 SEP F3 tb SEP 3500 SEP FlGl SEP F2G1 SEP F3G2 SEP F2G2 SEP FZG2 SEP F2G2 SEP FlGl SEP F2G1 SEP FlGl SEP F1 SEP F3G1 SEP F2 tb SEP 3627 SEP FlGl SEP K4 SEP F3G3 SEP FlGl SEP F2 2 SEP F3G2 SEP C SEP F2G1 SEP FlGl SEP F2G1 SEP F3G2 SEP F2 tb SEP 3628 SEP F3G3 SEP F3G3 SEP K4 SEP F3G3 SEP F3G2 SEP F3G3 SEP G2F1 SEP F3G3 SEP G2Fl SEP F2G1 SEP F3C2 SEP F3 tb SEP 3629 SEP o SEP 0 SEP F2 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP C SEP F1 SEP C SEP F1 SEP F2 SEP F1 tb SEP 3631 SEP o SEP Q SEP F2 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP C SEP F1 SEP SEP 0 SEP F2 SEP D tb SEP 3632 SEP F3G3 SEP F2G2 SEP X4 SEP F3G2 SEP F3G2 SEP F3C2 SEP Gl SEP F3 SEP G1 SEP FlGl SEP F3C1 SEP F3G2 tb SEP 3633 SEP F3G2 SEP F2G1 SEP F3G3 SEP F2G1 SEP F3G2 SEP F2G1 SEP C SEP F2 SEP Q SEP F1 SEP F3C.l SEP F3C1 tb SEP 3635 SEP 0 SEP F1 SEP F2 SEP C SEP F1 SEP F1 SEP C SEP F2 SEP C SEP Fl SEP F2G2 SEP F2 tb SEP 3637 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP F2 SEP C SEP F1 SEP F2 SEP o tb TABLE Ia PART BEFFECTS ON PLANT SPECIESEMI35.1 tb SEP Preemergent SEP Effects SEP Postemerqent SEP Effects tb SEP TJ tb SEP t SEP um SEP tu SEP c SEP u SEP L SEP V SEP 4 tb Cotnpnd. SEP I SEP SEP u SEP SEP W SEP W SEP ro SEP t SEP E tb SEP foe SEP x SEP 0 SEP V SEP V SEP V tb SEP No. SEP o SEP ts SEP h SEP o SEP O SEP V SEP fo SEP fo SEP 1 SEP c SEP 0 tb SEP ffi SEP s SEP tr SEP uu SEP m SEP S SEP SEP a tb SEP 3299 SEP F1 SEP F1 SEP F2 SEP F1 SEP F1 SEP F1 SEP C SEP F2G1 SEP C SEP F1 SEP F2G3 SEP 0 tb SEP Nl SEP Fl SEP C SEP C SEP F2G3 SEP C tb SEP 3300 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP C tb SEP 3302 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP F2 SEP 0 SEP C SEP FlGl SEP C tb SEP 3303 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP F2 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP Flcl SEP C tb SEP 3339 SEP SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP F1 SEP F1 tb SEP 3348 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP C SEP F1 SEP F1 tb SEP 3340 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP C SEP F1 SEP F1 tb SEP 3342 SEP 0 SEP F1 SEP F2 SEP C SEP F1 SEP FlGl SEP C SEP F2G1 SEP C SEP F1 SEP F3G3 SEP 0 tb SEP 3344 SEP FlCl SEP F2Gl SEP F3r 3 SEP F1 SEP FlGl SEP F3G3 SEP C SEP F2 SEP C SEP F2 SEP F3G3 SEP F1 tb SEP 3346 SEP F3G3 SEP K4 SEP F3G3 SEP F3G2 SEP F22 SEP K4 SEP F2 SEP F3G2 SEP F2G1 SEP F2G1 SEP F2G3 SEP F2 tb SEP 3328 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP C SEP N1 SEP C SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP C SEP F1 SEP C tb SEP 3329 SEP F2G2 SEP F3G3 SEP F3G3 SEP F3G3 SEP F3G2 SEP F2G2 SEP F1G2 SEP F3G2 SEP F1 SEP N1F2F3G2 SEP NlFl tb SEP 3331 SEP K4 SEP F3G3 SEP F3G3 SEP K4 SEP F3G3 SEP F3G3 SEP N2G3 SEP F3G3 SEP F1 SEP F2G2 SEP F3G2 SEP F1 tb SEP 3332 SEP C SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP SEP SEP 0 SEP C SEP F1 SEP C tb TABLE Ia PART BEFFECTS ON PLANT SPECIESEMI36.1 tb SEP Preemerqent SEP Effects SEP Postzmergent SEP Effects tb SEP v SEP z SEP W SEP W SEP , SEP o tb SEP w SEP k SEP a SEP w SEP a tb Compnd. SEP R SEP xI SEP i SEP E SEP SEP e tb SEP No SEP v SEP Ou SEP o SEP o SEP v SEP , SEP , SEP u SEP o tb SEP SEP Ws SEP z SEP SEP O SEP X SEP m SEP m SEP P tb SEP 3700 SEP 0 SEP C SEP F SEP o SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP C SEP F1 SEP F2 SEP F2G2 SEP F3G2 SEP F2 tb SEP 3701 SEP Q SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP C SEP G2F1 SEP C SEP F1 SEP F2 SEP Nl tb SEP 3702 SEP o SEP C SEP F1 SEP C SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP C SEP F1 SEP F1 SEP F1 SEP F3 SEP Ni tb SEP 3703 SEP C SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP C SEP F2G2 SEP F1 SEP O SEP F3 SEP 0 tb SEP 3704 tb SEP F2 tb SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP SEP D SEP 0 SEP 2 tb SEP 3705 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP D SEP N1 SEP F2 SEP C SEP F1 SEP NlFl SEP F1 tb SEP 3706 SEP 0 SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP F2 SEP C SEP F1 SEP F3G1 SEP F1 tb SEP 3707 SEP C SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP C SEP 0 SEP F1 SEP C SEP F1 SEP F2G2 SEP F2 tb SEP 3708 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP C SEP Fl SEP F2 SEP C tb SEP 3709 tb SEP F2G1 SEP F2G1 SEP F2 SEP FlGl SEP F3G3 SEP F2G1 SEP 0 SEP F2G1 SEP C SEP F1 SEP F3G2 SEP F2 tb SEP 3710 SEP F3G3 SEP F3G2 SEP F3G3 SEP F3G2 SEP F3G3 SEP F3G3 SEP F2G1 SEP F3G1 SEP F2 SEP F2G2 SEP F3G2 SEP F2G1 tb SEP 3731 SEP 0 SEP F1 SEP F2 SEP C SEP G1 SEP t2 SEP 0 SEP F2 SEP F1 SEP F1 SEP F3 SEP NlF2 tb TABLE Ia PART BEFFECTS ON PLANT SPECIESEMI37.1 tb SEP Preemergent SEP Effects SEP Postemergent SEP Effects tb SEP 4J SEP s SEP 4J SEP u SEP SEP o tb SEP 0, tb SEP E SEP m SEP E SEP SEP . SEP SEP S SEP E tb Compnd. SEP E SEP SEP do 4 SEP 4J0, SEP tb SEP No. SEP ú SEP u SEP SEP v SEP SEP a SEP S SEP g SEP SEP t SEP C SEP 0 tb SEP 4 SEP tb 3732 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP C SEP C SEP C SEP C SEP C SEP F2 SEP 0 tb 3733 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP C SEP F1 SEP C SEP F2 SEP F3G1 SEP F2 tb 3734 tb SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP C SEP F1 SEP 0 tb 3749 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP F3Gl SEP 0 tb SEP 3750 SEP F1 SEP F1 SEP F3G3 SEP F2G2 SEP F1 SEP F1 SEP C SEP F2G2 SEP FlNl SEP F2G1 SEP F3G1 SEP F2G2 tb SEP 3751 SEP 0 SEP C SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP C SEP F1 SEP C SEP C SEP F1 SEP N1 tb SEP 3752 SEP K4 SEP FlGl SEP K4 SEP F2G2 SEP F2G2 SEP K4 SEP F1G3 SEP F2G3 SEP G1 SEP F2 SEP F2G1 SEP F3 tb SEP 3780 SEP F1 SEP F2G1 SEP F3G3 SEP F2G1 SEP F2G2 SEP F2G1 SEP N1 SEP F2G2 SEP N1 SEP N1F2 SEP T3G1 SEP F1 tb SEP NlC2 tb SEP 3781 SEP F2G1 SEP SEP K4 SEP F2G2 SEP F3G2 SEP F2G2 SEP 0 SEP F3G2 SEP F2 SEP F2 SEP F3 SEP NlF2 tb SEP N2G2 tb SEP 3782 SEP 0 SEP F1 SEP F2 SEP 0 SEP C SEP F1 SEP C SEP F2 SEP C SEP F2 SEP F3 SEP NlFl tb SEP 3783 SEP F1 SEP F1 SEP F3G2 SEP F2G2 SEP F2G1 SEP F2 SEP NlGl SEP N1 SEP G1 SEP FlGl SEP F2G2 SEP F2 tb SEP 3784 SEP 0 SEP C SEP F1 SEP C SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP F2G1 SEP F1 tb TABLE Ia PART BEFFECTS ON PLANT SPECIESEMI38.1 tb SEP Preemergent SEP Effects SEP Postrmergent SEP Effects tb SEP 4J SEP s SEP 4 SEP u SEP s SEP o tb SEP I SEP u SEP c SEP Le SEP a tb compnd SEP . SEP e SEP e SEP x SEP E SEP o SEP SEP c SEP SEP t SEP ns SEP U tb SEP e SEP x SEP 0 SEP 1 SEP tI SEP I SEP LH SEP E tb SEP No. SEP U SEP SEP U SEP g SEP a SEP SEP S SEP S SEP S SEP a SEP 0 tb SEP tb SEP 3785 SEP F2G1 SEP F2G2 SEP F3G3 SEP F3G2 SEP F3G3 SEP F3G2 SEP N1G2 SEP F2G2 SEP G1 SEP F2G2 SEP F3G2 SEP F2G1 tb SEP 3786 SEP FlGl SEP F3G3 SEP F3G3 SEP F2C2 SEP F3G3 SEP F3G2 SEP FlGl SEP F1 SEP SEP F2 SEP F3G1 SEP F2 tb SEP 3787 SEP 0 SEP C SEP F1 SEP C SEP 0 SEP C SEP N1 SEP C SEP C SEP F1 SEP F2Gl SEP Nl tb SEP F2 SEP F3G3 SEP K4 SEP K4 SEP f3G2 SEP K4 SEP K4 SEP F3G2 SEP F2G3 SEP N1G2 SEP Fl tb SEP 3788 SEP F3G3 SEP K4 SEP K4 SEP F3G2 SEP K4 SEP R4 SEP F3G2 SEP F2G3 SEP NlG2 SEP NlG3 SEP NlG2 SEP F2 tb SEP 3789 SEP 0 SEP F1 SEP F1 SEP C SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP C SEP F1 SEP C SEP C SEP F2G1 SEP C tb SEP 3790 SEP 0 SEP C SEP F2 SEP C SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP F3 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP FlG2 SEP NlFi tb SEP 3791 SEP F2G1 SEP F2G2 SEP F3G2 SEP F2G2 SEP F2G2 SEP F3G2 SEP C SEP F1 SEP G1 SEP NlGl SEP F2G2 SEP F2G1 tb SEP 3792 SEP FlGl SEP F2G1 SEP F3G3 SEP F3G3 SEP F3G3 SEP K4 SEP F2G2 SEP F2G3 SEP GlFl SEP F3G3 SEP F2G2 SEP F2C.2 tb SEP 3793 SEP 0 SEP C SEP F1 SEP C SEP C SEP F1 SEP C SEP 0 SEP C SEP FlGl SEP F2G1 SEP C tb SEP 3794 SEP 0 SEP C SEP F2 SEP C SEP 0 SEP F1 SEP C SEP F1 SEP C SEP F1 SEP FlGl SEP Q tb SEP 3795 SEP 0 SEP C SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP C SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP C SEP Fl SEP F1 tb SEP 3796 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP K3G3 SEP 0 SEP C SEP F1 SEP C SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP F2 SEP F2G2 SEP F2 tb TABLE Ia PART BEFFECTS ON PLANT SPECIESEMI39.1 tb SEP Preemergent SEP Effects SEP Postmergent SEP Effects tb SEP 4 SEP zc SEP 4 SEP W SEP v SEP o tb SEP I SEP C SEP O SEP Ç SEP m SEP k SEP ç SEP H SEP V SEP J4 tb SEP I SEP E tb Compnd. SEP I SEP x SEP E SEP o SEP 0 SEP m SEP e SEP e SEP q tb SEP X SEP X SEP x SEP E SEP o SEP SEP E tb SEP No. SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP , SEP S SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP m SEP S SEP 0 tb SEP No. SEP t SEP m SEP x SEP cur SEP S SEP r SEP O SEP n SEP 0 tb SEP 3797 SEP 0 SEP C SEP F1 SEP C SEP 0 SEP R3G3 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP C SEP F1 SEP C tb SEP 3798 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP C SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP C SEP F1 SEP C tb SEP 3799 SEP G1 SEP C SEP N3G1 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP C SEP F1 SEP F1 SEP C tb SEP 3800 SEP 0 SEP C SEP F2 SEP C SEP C SEP F1 SEP C SEP C SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP SEP Nl tb SEP 3812 SEP F2G2 SEP F3G3 SEP K4 SEP F22 SEP F2G2 SEP F3G3 SEP FlGl SEP F3G1 SEP FlGl SEP F1 SEP F3G2 SEP F2 tb SEP 3813 SEP 0 SEP Fl SEP F2 SEP 0 SEP C SEP F1 SEP C SEP F2 SEP C SEP F1 SEP F2 SEP 0 tb SEP 3814 SEP F3G3 SEP K4 SEP K4 SEP F3G2 SEP F3G3 SEP F3G3 SEP F2G2 SEP F3G3 SEP F2G2 SEP F3G2 SEP F3G3 SEP F3G1 tb SEP 3815 SEP K4 SEP K4 SEP K4 SEP F3G3 SEP F3G3 SEP K4 SEP G1 SEP F3G2 SEP FlGl SEP F1 SEP F3G1 SEP F2 tb SEP 3816 SEP 0 SEP SEP F2G1 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP C SEP F1 SEP C SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 tb SEP 3849 SEP F2G2 SEP F3G2 SEP F3G3 SEP F1G2 SEP F2C2 SEP F2G2 SEP F3G2 SEP F3G3 SEP F2G2 SEP F2G2 SEP F3G3 SEP F3G1 tb SEP 3850 SEP 0 SEP FlGl SEP F3G1 SEP G1 SEP C SEP F1 SEP F1 SEP F3 SEP F1 SEP F1 SEP F2G1 SEP F3 tb SEP 3851 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP F1 SEP C SEP C SEP F1 SEP F1 tb TABLE Ia PART BEFFECTS ON PLANT SPECIESEMI40.1 tb SEP Preemeroent SEP Effects SEP Postemergent SEP Effects tb SEP .u SEP 0 tb W SEP u SEP SEP k SEP V SEP I SEP I SEP r SEP v SEP i SEP o tb SEP I SEP E SEP c SEP d SEP S SEP r SEP IILr SEP tb Coepnd. SEP n SEP o SEP x SEP E SEP SEP SEP a SEP . SEP SEP e tb SEP No. SEP o SEP o SEP SEP Ç SEP 2 SEP SEP Ï SEP SEP SEP tb SEP Fl SEP C SEP Fl SEP 2 SEP 0 tb SEP 3977 SEP 0 SEP F1 SEP F2G1 SEP C SEP F1 SEP F2 SEP 0 SEP F2 SEP N2G2 SEP F1 SEP F3 SEP F3 tb SEP 4017 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP F2 SEP 0 SEP C SEP F1 SEP F1 tb SEP 4019 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP C SEP F1 SEP C SEP F1 SEP C SEP C SEP F1 SEP F1 tb SEP 4020 SEP 0 SEP F1 SEP C SEP 0 SEP Q SEP F1 SEP C SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP C SEP F1 SEP F1 tb SEP 4021 SEP 0 SEP SEP SEP N1 SEP C SEP N1 SEP C SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 tb SEP 4023 SEP F1 SEP F2G2 SEP F2G1 SEP FlGl SEP F2G1 SEP F3G2 SEP F1 SEP F2G1 SEP F2G1 SEP F3G1 SEP F3G1 SEP F2 tb SEP 4025 SEP 0 SEP F1 SEP F2 SEP 0 SEP C SEP FI SEP FlGl SEP F2G1 SEP F1 SEP F1 SEP F2G2 SEP F1 tb SEP 4026 SEP 0 SEP F1 SEP F2 SEP C SEP 0 SEP G2F2 SEP F1 SEP F2 SEP F1 SEP F2 SEP F1 SEP F2 tb SEP 4027 SEP F2G2 SEP N4 SEP N4 SEP F2G2 SEP F2G1 SEP F3G1 SEP F2G1 SEP F3G1 SEP FlGl SEP F2G1 SEP F3G2 SEP F3E1 tb SEP 4028 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP F2 SEP C SEP F1 SEP F2 SEP F1 SEP F3G1 SEP F1 SEP F2 SEP F2G1 SEP F1 tb SEP 4029 SEP o SEP Q SEP F1 SEP C SEP Q SEP F1 SEP C SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 tb TABLE Ia PART BEFFECTS ON PLANT SPECIESEMI41.1 tb SEP Preemergent SEP Effects SEP Postfmergent SEP Effects tb SEP v SEP , SEP v SEP u SEP Z SEP o tb SEP k SEP Q SEP v tb Compnd. SEP o SEP E0 SEP H SEP v SEP W SEP W SEP r SEP SEP b SEP É tb SEP H SEP 0 SEP H SEP 0 SEP S tb SEP No. SEP . SEP h SEP O SEP O SEP h SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP a tb SEP SEP tJU SEP m SEP ntL SEP SEP 0 tb SEP 4030 SEP FlGl SEP F2G2 SEP F3G3 SEP FlGl SEP F3G3 SEP F3G3 SEP F2G1 SEP F3G1 SEP F2G2 SEP F3G2 SEP F3G2 SEP F3G1 tb SEP 4033 SEP o SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP C SEP F1 SEP C SEP C SEP F1 SEP F1 tb SEP 4034 SEP Q SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP C SEP F1 SEP F1 tb SEP 4035 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP C SEP F1 SEP C SEP F1 SEP C SEP 0 SEP F1 SEP F1 tb SEP 4036 SEP o SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP N2F1 SEP F1 tb SEP 4062 SEP F2G2 SEP F3G2 SEP F3G3 SEP F3G2 SEP F3G2 SEP F3G3 SEP F1 SEP F3G2 SEP F1 SEP F3G2 SEP F2G1 SEP F3E1 tb SEP 4063 SEP F3G3 SEP F3G2 SEP K4 SEP F3G3 SEP F3G3 SEP F3G2 SEP F2G2 SEP F3G2 SEP F2G1 SEP F2G2 SEP F3G3 SEP F3Gl tb SEP 4064 SEP F3G3 SEP N4 SEP F3G2 SEP F2Gl SEP F2G1 SEP F2G1 SEP FlGl SEP F3G2 SEP FlGl SEP F2G2 SEP F3G2 SEP F3G1 tb SEP 4065 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP C SEP 0 SEP C SEP F1 SEP C SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 tb SEP 4066 SEP o SEP F1 SEP F2 SEP F1 SEP F1 SEP F2G1 SEP C SEP F1 SEP C SEP C SEP F1 SEP O tb TABLE Ia PART BEFFECTS ON PLANT SPECIESEMI42.1 tb SEP Preemeraent SEP Effects SEP Postmergent SEP Effects tb SEP v SEP SEP 4 SEP W SEP SEP O tb SEP I SEP m SEP e SEP v SEP SEP a SEP e SEP v SEP U tb Compnd. SEP v SEP SEP xOiO SEP SEP nr SEP d SEP Q SEP 13 SEP W SEP W SEP X tb SEP No. SEP U SEP SEP U SEP U SEP m SEP SEP a SEP e SEP SEP t SEP a SEP E tb SEP U SEP U SEP a SEP SEP 0 tb SEP 4068 SEP F2G2 SEP FlGl SEP F2 SEP FlGl SEP G1 SEP FlGl SEP C SEP F2 SEP F1 SEP Fl SEP F1 SEP F3 tb SEP 4070 SEP FlGl SEP C SEP F1 SEP 0 SEP C SEP F1 SEP SEP F1 SEP C SEP C SEP F1 SEP Fl tb SEP 4115 SEP FlGl SEP F1 SEP F2 SEP F2G1 SEP F2G2 SEP F3G1 SEP F1 SEP F1 SEP F1 SEP F1 SEP Fl SEP F2 tb SEP 4116 SEP SEP 0 SEP SEP 0 SEP C SEP F1 SEP C SEP Q SEP C SEP F1 SEP Fl SEP F1 tb SEP 4117 SEP F2G1 SEP F2 SEP F2G1 SEP F2G2 SEP F2G2 SEP F2G1 SEP FlGl SEP F2G2 SEP F1 SEP F2G1 SEP N4 SEP F3 tb SEP 4118 SEP F2G2 SEP F2G1 SEP F3G2 SEP F3G2 SEP F2G2 SEP F2G2 SEP F2G2 SEP F2GI SEP F2G1 SEP F2 SEP F2G1 SEP F3 tb SEP 4119 SEP G1 SEP F1 SEP F1 SEP C SEP F1 SEP F1 SEP FIGl SEP F3G2 SEP F2G1 SEP F2 SEP F3G2 SEP F3G1 tb SEP 4120 SEP FlGl SEP F1 SEP F3G1 SEP F2G1 SEP F2G1 SEP F3G2 SEP F2G1 SEP F3G2 SEP F2G1 SEP F2G2 SEP F3G2 SEP F3 tb SEP 4121 SEP 0 SEP F1 SEP FlGl SEP C SEP F1 SEP F2G1 SEP F1 SEP F2 SEP FlGl SEP F1 SEP F2 SEP F2 tb SEP 4122 SEP G1 SEP F1 SEP F2G1 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP F2G1 SEP FlGl SEP F3G2 SEP FlGl SEP F1 SEP F2 SEP F3G1 tb SEP 4123 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP C SEP .0 SEP 0 SEP C SEP F1 SEP C tb SEP 4124 SEP 0 SEP C SEP F1 SEP C SEP C SEP F1 SEP 0 SEP F1 SEP Fl SEP F1 SEP F1 SEP F1 tb SEP 4125 SEP 0 SEP Q SEP .C SEP C SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP C SEP F1 SEP F1 SEP C SEP F1 SEP F1 tb SEP 4126 SEP F1 SEP F2 SEP F3G1 SEP F2G1 SEP F2G1 SEP F3G1 SEP FlGl SEP F3G1 SEP F2Gl SEP F2G2 SEP FlGl SEP F3G3 tb TABLE Ia PART BEFFECTS ON PLANT SPECIESEMI43.1 tb SEP Preemergent SEP Effects SEP Postemergent SEP Effects tb SEP W SEP .c SEP 4J SEP u tb SEP V SEP V SEP V SEP oi tb Compnd. SEP R SEP m SEP SEP i SEP Eo SEP SEP zit SEP e SEP SEP 4, SEP 5 tb SEP 4, SEP e SEP E tb SEP No. SEP o SEP z SEP 5 SEP V SEP 2 SEP t SEP o tb SEP x SEP t SEP m SEP U SEP O SEP n tb SEP 4127 SEP F2G2 SEP F3G2 SEP F3G3 SEP F3G2 SEP F3G3 SEP F2G1 SEP F2G2 SEP F3G2 SEP F2G1 SEP FlGl SEP F2G1 SEP F31 tb SEP 4128 SEP FlGl SEP F2G1 SEP F3G2 SEP F3G2 SEP F2G2 SEP F2G1 SEP FiGl SEP F2G1 SEP F1 SEP F2G2 SEP F2G1 SEP F3 tb SEP 4129 SEP F2G1 SEP F3G3 SEP F3G3 SEP F2G1 SEP F2G2 SEP F2G2 SEP F1 SEP F2 SEP C SEP F1 SEP F2 SEP F3 tb SEP 4130 SEP F2G2 SEP F3G2 SEP F3G3 SEP F3G2 SEP F3G3 SEP F3G3 SEP F2G2 SEP F2G1 SEP F1 SEP F2G1 SEP F2G2 SEP F3 tb SEP 4259 SEP 0 SEP C SEP F1 SEP C SEP 0 SEP C SEP FlGl F2Gl SEP F1 SEP FlGl SEP F2 SEP F3G1 tb SEP 4261 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP C SEP F1 SEP 0 tb SEP 4262 SEP o SEP F1 SEP F2 SEP FlGl SEP F2 SEP F2 SEP C SEP F1 SEP C SEP FlGl SEP F2G1 SEP F3 tb SEP 4263 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP SEP C SEP F1 SEP C tb SEP 4264 SEP 0 SEP F1 SEP F3 SEP F1 SEP F1 SEP F2 SEP FlG1 SEP F2G1 SEP F1 SEP FlGl SEP F3G1 SEP F3G1 tb SEP 4290 SEP F3G2 SEP F2G2 SEP F3G3 SEP F3G2 SEP F2G2 SEP F3G2 SEP F2G1 SEP F3G2 SEP SEP F2G2 SEP F3G3 SEP F3G3 tb SEP 4291 tb SEP 4291 SEP F3G3 SEP F3G3 SEP F3G2 SEP F3G3 SEP X4 SEP X4 SEP F3c3 SEP F3G3 SEP SEP 6i2 SEP F3G3 SEP F3E3 tb SEP 4292 SEP o SEP Fl SEP F1 SEP F1 SEP C SEP C SEP F1 SEP F3G2 SEP F1 SEP F1 SEP F2G2 SEP F3 tb SEP 4293 SEP 0 SEP C SEP F1 SEP C SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP C SEP F1 SEP C SEP C SEP F1 SEP C tb TABLE Ia PART BEFFECTS ON PLANT SPECIESEMI44.1 tb SEP Preemergent SEP Effects SEP Postemergent SEP Effects tb SEP W SEP SEP 4 SEP u SEP SEP o tb SEP I SEP en SEP 01 SEP P1 SEP Ln SEP ç SEP tb Compnd. SEP E SEP x SEP i SEP E SEP SEP X SEP Z SEP e tb SEP E tb SEP No. SEP tj SEP Xoo SEP 5 SEP zero Q SEP m SEP E SEP SEP e SEP V SEP OI SEP 0 tb SEP SEP U SEP m SEP r tb SEP 4329 SEP F2G1 SEP X4 SEP F2G1 SEP FlGl SEP F1 SEP F3G1 SEP N2G1 SEP F3G2 SEP F1 SEP F1 SEP F2 SEP F3 tb SEP 4330 SEP F3G2 SEP F2 SEP F3G1 SEP F3G2 SEP F2G1 SEP F3G1 SEP FIGI SEP F2 SEP F1 SEP F1 SEP F2 SEP F3 tb SEP 4331 SEP F2G2 SEP F1 SEP F3G1 SEP F2G1 SEP F1 SEP F2G1 SEP NlGl SEP F1 SEP F1 SEP F1 SEP F2 SEP F2 tb SEP 4 332 SEP F3G2 SEP F2G1 SEP F3G2 SEP F3G2 SEP F3G3 SEP F3G3 SEP F2G2 SEP F3G3 SEP F2G1 SEP F2 SEP F3G2 SEP F3 tb SEP 4333 SEP F2G1 SEP F2 SEP F3G1 SEP F2G1 SEP F1 SEP F2G1 SEP FlGl SEP F3G2 SEP F1 SEP F2 SEP F2G1 SEP F1 tb SEP 4355 SEP F3G3 SEP F3G3 SEP F3G3 SEP F3G2 SEP F3G2 SEP F3G3 SEP N2G2 SEP F3C 3 SEP F1 SEP N1G1 SEP N4 SEP F2Nl tb SEP 4373 tb SEP F1 SEP F2G2 SEP F2 SEP F2G1 SEP C SEP F2G1 SEP C SEP Fl SEP F1 SEP F1 SEP FlGl SEP F2 tb SEP 4374 SEP G1 SEP G1 SEP C SEP SEP n SEP F2 SEP o SEP F1 SEP o SEP o SEP F1 SEP Fl tb SEP Gl tb SEP 4375 SEP 0 SEP F2 SEP F1 SEP Fl SEP FlGl SEP F2G1 SEP Nl SEP F2 SEP C SEP N2Fl SEP F3G2 SEP F2 tb TABLE Ia PART BEFFECTS ON PLANT SPECIESEMI45.1 tb SEP Preemersent SEP Effects SEP Postrmergent SEP Effects tb SEP U tb SEP SEP z SEP 4 SEP 44 SEP s SEP o tb SEP V SEP V SEP tn SEP V SEP rn SEP H SEP LO SEP tb compna. SEP Q SEP X SEP 0 SEP E SEP H SEP SEP ss SEP SEP e tb SEP I SEP X SEP X SEP x SEP g SEP o SEP tb SEP No. SEP size SEP o SEP O SEP R SEP SEP d SEP SEP SEP SEP 5 SEP Ç SEP o tb SEP SEP , SEP e SEP 0 SEP tb SEP 4429 SEP 0 SEP F1 SEP C SEP F1 SEP F2 SEP F2 tb SEP 4230 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP C SEP F1 tb SEP 4496 SEP 0 SEP F1 SEP F1 SEP C SEP C SEP F1 SEP N1 SEP F1 SEP C SEP N1 SEP F1 SEP F1 tb SEP 4497 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP F3G2 SEP F1 SEP F1 SEP F2G1 SEP F1 tb SEP 4498 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP C SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP C SEP F1 SEP F1 SEP Fl tb SEP 4499 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP NlFl SEP F3G3 SEP F1 SEP F1 SEP F1 SEP F1 tb SEP 4500 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP F1 SEP F2 tb SEP 4501 SEP 0 SEP C SEP F1 SEP C SEP 0 SEP C SEP F1 SEP F3G2 SEP Fl SEP F1 SEP F2G1 SEP F2 tb SEP 4502 SEP F2G2 SEP F2G2 SEP F3G2 SEP F3G2 SEP F2G2 SEP FlGl SEP F2G1 SEP F3G3 SEP F2 SEP F2 SEP F2G1 SEP F3 tb SEP 4503 SEP K4 SEP F3 3 SEP K4 SEP F3G3 SEP F3G3 SEP K4 SEP F3G2 SEP F3G3 SEP F2G1 SEP F3G3 SEP F3G2 SEP F3 tb SEP 4504 SEP K4 SEP K4 SEP F3G3 SEP F3G3 SEP F3G3 SEP F3G3 SEP F2G2 SEP F3G3 SEP F2G1 SEP F2G2 SEP F2G1 SEP F3 tb SEP 4505 SEP F3G3 SEP K4 SEP F3G3 SEP F3G2 SEP F3 2 SEP F3G2 SEP F2G2 SEP F3C3 SEP F2G1 SEP F2G1 SEP F3G1 SEP F3 tb TABLE Ia PART BEFFECTS ON PLANT SPECIESEMI46.1 tb SEP Preemergent SEP Effects SEP Po5 SEP Postcmergent SEP Effects tb SEP F SEP c, SEP cr SEP e SEP o tb SEP v SEP ssc SEP 4 SEP W SEP SEP o tb Compnd. SEP V SEP t SEP L4 , SEP X tb compnd. SEP , SEP ., tb SEP E tb SEP No. SEP k SEP use SEP e SEP o SEP m SEP 7 SEP o SEP O tb SEP m SEP Z SEP SEP m SEP a tb SEP 4455 SEP 0 SEP F1 SEP C SEP F1 SEP F1 SEP 0 tb SEP 4456 SEP 0 SEP F2G2 SEP C SEP Fl SEP F1 SEP F1 tb SEP 4457 SEP F2G1 SEP F3G2 SEP F2 SEP F2 SEP F2G1 SEP F3 tb SEP 4458 SEP F2G1 SEP F3G3 SEP F2 SEP F1 SEP F2 SEP F3 tb SEP 4459 SEP 0 SEP F1 SEP C SEP Fl SEP F2 SEP F1 tb SEP 4460 SEP NlGl SEP F2G1 SEP C SEP F1 SEP F1 SEP C tb SEP 4461 SEP N2G2 SEP F3G3 SEP F2 SEP F3G2 SEP F3G2 SEP F3G1 tb SEP 4462 SEP NlGl SEP F3G3 SEP F2 SEP F2 SEP F3G2 SEP F2 tb SEP 4463 SEP NiGl SEP F3G3 SEP F2G1 SEP F2G1 SEP F3G2 SEP F3G1 tb SEP 4313 SEP FlGl SEP G1 SEP C SEP FlGl SEP C SEP F2G1 SEP C SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP C SEP F1 SEP C tb SEP 4359 SEP F1 SEP SEP F2 SEP F2G2 SEP F1 SEP F3G1 SEP C SEP FlGl SEP C SEP FlGl SEP FlGl SEP F1 tb SEP 4160 SEP 0 SEP F1 SEP F1 SEP F2G1 SEP C SEP F1 SEP C SEP F1 SEP C SEP F1 SEP F1 SEP F1 tb TABLE Ia PART BEFFECTS ON PLANT SPECIESEMI47.1 tb SEP Preemergent SEP Effects SEP Pos SEP temergent SEP Effects tb SEP Iru SEP o tb SEP I SEP Ul SEP e SEP or SEP ux SEP h SEP Cl SEP t SEP Ul SEP h tb ompnd. SEP f SEP SEP 8 SEP 4 SEP SEP SEP S tb SEP . SEP X SEP E SEP SEP SEP r SEP SEP u SEP 44 SEP 0 SEP E tb SEP No. SEP k SEP k SEP O SEP O SEP k SEP vrl SEP r SEP SEP . SEP úi SEP o tb SEP uu SEP 2 SEP z SEP U SEP m SEP m SEP . SEP z SEP SEP o SEP X SEP m SEP m SEP tb SEP . SEP tb SEP 4258 SEP 0 SEP C SEP F1 SEP C SEP 0 SEP C SEP FiGI SEP F2G1 SEP F1 SEP FlGl SEP F2 SEP F3G1 tb The use of many of the growth regulator compounds may be demonstrated by treatment of soybeans Soja max to increase the number of seed pods and by treating tomato plants Lycopersicum escuZentum to increase fruit set.In an illustrative experiment, Soja max Evans variety andLycopersicum escuientum Tiny Tim variety were grown in 4inch pots one plant per pot filled with greenhouse potting soil 2 parts good top soil, 1 1 2 parts builder s sand, 1 1 2 parts peat, fertilized with 5 Ib. of 12 12 6 fertilizer and 5 lb. of finely ground limestone per cu. yd. .Aqueous spray formulations were prepared and the potted plants were sprayed at a spray volume of 40 gal. per acre and at application rates of 16, 4, 1 and 1 4 oz. per acre.The spray mixtures were prepared by dissolving the proper amount of growth regulator compound in 15 ml. of acetone, adding 2 ml. of a solvent emulsifier mixture consisting of 60 wt. percent of a commercial polyoxyethylated vegetable oil emulsifier 96 wt. percent active ingredient,Emulphor EL 719 , 20 wt. percent xylene and 20 wt. percent deodorized kerosene, then bringing total volume up to 80 ml by addition of a 0.156 wt. percent aqueous solution of liquid non ionic dispersant 90 wt. percent active trimethylnonyl polyethylene glycol ether, Tergitol TMN 10 . Two replicates were sprayed at all application rates. For comparative purposes, plants were also sprayed at 40 gal. acre with water. The number of seed pods and of fruit as percentage of arithmetic mean of the numbers on untreated plants was observed within approximately three weeks after spray treatment and the results are tabulated below.The extent of growth regulatory effect on the plants ways estimated on a scale of 0 to 10 and is also recorded in the following table GROWTH REGULATING EFFECTS ON TWO SPECIES Soja max Lycopersicum escuzentum 0 Comptd Rate Pod Count Severity of Fruit Count Severity of No. oz A Percent in Growth Percent in Growth Comparison Regulating Comparison Regul ing to Untreated Effect to Untreated Effect Plants Plants 2878 16 163 a,c 9 73 a,b 9 4 183 a,c 6.5 364 a,b 9 1 177 3 327 4 2960 16 160 a,c 9 218 a 9 4 138 6.5 218 e 7 1 135 6.5 327 2 3099 16 183 a,c 9 182 b 9 4 177 a,c 6,5 400 b 8 1 186 2.5 436 b 4.5 3100 16 166 a,c 9 82 a 9 4 166 6.5 382 e 6.5 1 146 4 355 4 3105 16 185 a,c 9 136 9 4 171 7 382 6.5 1 143 4 355 3 3143 16 166 a,c 9 245 a 9 4 169 6 191 d 7.5 1 157 2 191 e 3.5 3144 16 199 a,c 9 55 a 9 4 157 5.5 382 d 7 1 157 2.5 245 e 5 3176 16 111 2 178 b 7.5 4 104 0 141 3 1 93 0 131 1 3251 16 86 0 129 0.5 4 95 0 64 0 1 91 0 64 0 GROWTH REGULATING EFFECTS ON TWO SPECIES Soja max Lycopersicum escuZentzarz Comptdt Rate Pod Count Severity of Fruit Count Severity of No. RTI ID 50.5 oz A Percent in Growth Percent in Growth Comparison Regulating Comparison Regulating to Untreated Effect to Untreated Effect Plants Plants 3274 16 114 0.5 107 0 4 105 1 150 0 1 86 0 86 0 3277 16 146 6,5 197 b 8.5 4 143 4.5 169 5.5 1 154 2 122 1.5 3278 16 95 0 150 0.5 4 91 0 107 0 1 100 0 64 0 3293 16 154 7.5 141 b 8 4 150 3.5 178 4.5 1 121 1 113 2.5 3294 16 154 a 7.5 197 d 7.5 4 121 c 4.5 169 b 3.5 1 154 1.5 122 2.5 3295 16 136 8 216 8 4 175 4 188 3 1 145 2 169 1.5 3297 16 139 1 113 0.5 4 132 0 122 0 1 114 0 84 0 3298 16 107 0.5 113 2 4 118 0 141 0.5 1 107 0 103 0 3299 16 118 1 279 2 4 109 0.5 64 0 1 86 0 21 0 GROWTH REGULATING EFFECTS ON TWO SPECIES Soja max Lycopersicum esculentumComp d. Rate Pod Count D Severity of Fruit Count Severity of No oz A Percent in Growth Percent in Growth Comparison RTI ID 51.2 Regu1ing Comparison Regulating to Untreated Effect to Untreated Effect Plants Plants 3300 16 109 1 86 0 4 114 0 129 0 1 86 0 . 107 0 3302 16 86 1.5 107 1.5 4 4 127 0.5 107 0 1 118 0 86 0 3303 16 118 1.5 193 0.5 4 123 1 43 0 1 123 0 107 0 3339 16 107 0 94 0 4 111 0 131 0 1 114 0 103 0 3340 16 105 0 150 0 4 105 0 171 0 1 114 0 193 0 3342 16 140 3 400 0 4 105 0.5 200 0 1 94 0 0 0 3344 16 136 c 6 364 4 4 145 3 321 2.5 1 114 1.5 300 2 3345 16 143 5 169 b 4.5 4 164 3.5 188 2.5 1 1 159 1 3346 16 159 a 7 300 a 8.5 4 141 c 5 279 b 8 1 123 2.5 354 4.5 3410 16 114 a 7.5 407 a,d 8 4 141 c 5.5 343 b,d 7.5 1 105 3 321 5 GROWTH REGULATING EFFECTS ON TWO SPECIES Soja max Lycopersicum RTI ID 52.1 escuZentwn Comptd Rate Pod Count Severity of Fruit Count Severity of No. oz A Percent in Growth Percent in Growth Comparison Regulating Comparison REgulating to Untreated Effect to Untreated Effect Plants Plants 3497 16 121 0.5 141 1 4 111 0 103 0 1 111 0 122 0 3627 16 121 4.5 159 2 4 104 2.5 5 141 2.5 1 100 1 141 1.5 3628 16 125 a 6.5 159 b 8 4 150 c 6 188 d 7.5 1 136 2.5 169 3.5 3631 16 129 1.5 122 0.5 4 104 0 84 0 1 107 0 103 0 3632 16 132 a 7.5 178 b 7.5 4 146 4.5 216 d 6 1 143 2.5 169 4.5 3633 16 143 2.5 700 3 4 129 0.5 400 0.5 112 0 0 0 3637 16 127 1.5 107 0 4 136 0 129 0 1 95 0 86 0 3700 16 143 4 159 4.5 4 121 2.5 150 3.5 1 104 0 141 1 3706 16 105 0.5 21 0 4 109 0 64 0 1 82 0 86 0 3707 16 123 2 300 3 4 150 1 150 1 1 136 0 129 0 GROWTH REGULATING EFFECTS ON TWO SPECIES Soja max Lycopersicum esculentumComp d. Rate Pod Count Severity of Fruit Count Severity of No. oz A Percent in Growth Percent in Growth Comparison Regulating Comparison Regulating to Untreated Effect to Untreated Effect Plants Plants 3709 16 109 c 5.5 300 2.5 4 145 4 364 1 1 114 0.5 321 0.5 3710 16 167 a 8.5 900 a 8 4 136 c 5 700 b 5.5 1 143 3.5 700 4.5 3751 16 90 0 75 0 4 93 0 300 0 1 93 0 75 0 3752 16 183 8 225 9 4 153 4.5 600 8.5 1 161 2.5 975 5 3789 16 93 0.5 75 0.5 4 117 0 75 0 1 93 0 150 0 3792 16 145 8 525 9 4 123 4 1050 7 1 117 2 675 4.5 3812 16 106 3 39221,2 1.5 4 95 1 4852 1.5 1 106 0 369 1 3849 16 166 a 7.5 254 d 8.5 4 166 c 5 692 b 6 1 127 3 438 4.5 3850 16 113 2 277 3 4 113 0 485 2.5 1 120 0 369 1 3952 16 82 2 129 0 4 105 0.5 129 0 1 105 RTI ID 53.5 0 64 0 GROWTH REGULATING EFFECTS ON TWO SPECIES Soja max Lycopersicum esculentumComp d. Rate Pod Count Severity of Fruit Count Severity of No. oz A Percent in Growth Percent in Growth Comparison Regulating Comparison Regulating to Untreated Effect to Untreated Effect Plants Plants 3977 16 137 5 1000 7 4 119 1.5 550 2.5 1 112 0 250 1 4062 16 133 a 7 236 b 4 4 142 c 5 139 1.5 1 146 2.5 161 1.5 4120 16 100 a 4.5 214 4.5 4 142 c 2.5 139 4 1 117 1 129 2 4121 16 158 3 129 1 4 142 0.5 107 0.5 1 121 0 86 0 4122 16 125 5 96 1.5 4 117 2.5 96 1 1 96 0.5 139 0 4123 16 104 0 139 0.5 4 100 0 118 0 1 113 0 150 0 4124 16 121 4.5 139 1 4 113 0.5 129 0 1 104 0 139 0 4125 16 113 1.5 129 0.5 4 113 0 161 0.5 1 88 0 107 0 1Check 100 2Greenhouse rating on scale of 0, no effect to 10, total kill. a injury fruit c. smaller pods b malformed fruit d increased growth e pear shaped fruit The information presented in tabular form herein will enable a worker in the art to make a selection from among the growth regulant compounds of the invention and to make some judgment with regard to application rates, depending upon the effect which is desired. It may be seen, for example, that total kills of some species of vegetation may occur at application rates as high as 5 to 10 lb. per acre, whereas beneficial effects may be observed on living plants at application rates of 1 lb. per acre or less. The growth regulant compounds are usually applied in combination with inert carriers or diluents, as in aqueous sprays, granules and dust formulations in accordance with established practice in the art. An aqueous spray is usually prepared by mixing a wettable powder or emulsifiable concentrate formulation of a growth regulant with a relatively large amount of water to form a dispersion. Wettable powders comprise intimate, finely divided mixtures of growth regulant compounds, inert solid carriers and surface active agents. The inert solid carrier is usually chosen from among the attapulgite clays, the kaolin clays, the montmorillonite clays, the diatomaceous earths, finely divided silica and purified silicates. Effective surfactants, which have wetting, penetrating and dispersing ability are usually present in a wettable powder formulation in proportions of from 0.5 to about 10 percent by weight. Among the surface active agents commonly used for this purpose are the sulfonated lignins, naphthalenesulfonates and condensed naphthalenesulfonates, alkylbenzenesulfonates, alkyl sulfates and non ionic surfactants such as products of condensation of ethylene oxide with alkyl phenols. Emulsifiable concentrates of the growth regulant compounds comprise in each instance, a solution of growth regulant compound in a liquid carrier which is a mixture of water immscible solvent and surfactants, including emulsifiers. Useful solvents include aromatic hydrocarbon solvents such as the xylenes, alkylnaphthalenes, petroleum distillates, terpene solvents, ether alcohols and organic ester solvents. Suitable emulsifiers, dispersing and wetting agents may be selected from the same classes of products which are employed in formulating wettable powders. Usually, the growth regulators are applied by diluting with water agricultural compositions which desirably contain from 0.1 percent to 95 percent by weight of active compound and from 0.1 to 75 percent of a carrier or surfactant. However, direct application to plant seeds prior to planting may be accomplished in some instances by mixing powdered solid growth regulator with seed to obtain a substantially uniform coating which is very thin and comprises only one or two percent by weight or less, based on the weight of the seed. In most instances, however, a nonphytotoxic solvent, such as methanol is employed as a carrier to facilitate the uniform distribution of growth regulator on the surface of the seed. When a compound is to bye applied to the soil, as for a pre emergence application, granular formulations are sometimes more convenient than sprays. A typical granular formation comprises the growth regulator compound dispersed on an inert carrier such as coarsely ground clay, or clay which has been converted to granules by treatment of a rolling bed of the powdered material with a small amount of liquid in a granulating drum. In the usual process for preparing granular formulations, a solution of the active compound is sprayed on the granules while they arse being agitated in a suitable mixing apparatus, after which the granules are dried with a current of air during continued agitation.