# IMPROVEMENTS IN VIDEO MODE PLASMA PANEL DISPLAYS

## Claims
Plasmaanzeigeeinrichtung, die im Video Modus betrieben wird und einen Plasmaanzeige Videomonitor mit einer Mehrzahl 25 in einer Matrixkonfiguration angeordneter Anzeigezellen und Mittel 24 zum Erzeugen einer visuellen Darstellung eines Datenstroms von Videosignalen während einer Folge von Abtastvorgängen für eine horizontale Zeile aufweist, wobei die Mittel aufweisen

## Description
The present invention relates to improvements in video mode plasma panel displays and provides a speed improvement over the arrangement disclosed in the article An AC Plasma Panel Operating with the IBM Personal Computer published in the SID International Symposium Digest of Technical Papers, June 1984, and in EP A 0 155 488 published after the priority date of the present invention on 25 september 1985, while retaining the other advantages and basic approach set forth therein. To avoid complicating description and claiming, it is pointed out at this point that the term horizontal which is used to describe the direction of a picture line, is used conventionally and is only significant in so far as it distinguishes with respect to its companion vertical direction. Further, and this is emphasised later herein, the natural sequence of picture generation in the kind of display to which this invention relates is to write two horizontal lines and selectively erase one of them, and the claims are drafted in these terms, but it is equally possible to write one line, erase the second line and, subsequently, selectively write the same. In an AC all points addressable plasma display panel ACPDP , parallel conductor arrays disposed on glass plates with the conductor arrays disposed in a substantially orthogonal relationship are overcoated with a dielectric and refractory layer, and the glass plates edge sealed to form a panel, the panel containing an ionisable gas, the intersections of the conductor arrays defining display cells. The plasma display operates in three modes write, sustain and erase. Writing is accomplished by applying appropriate amplitude drive signals to the conductor arrays whereby the display cells are selectively discharged not to be confused with erased, discharging of a cell being the way to render the corresponding picture element or pel visible to provide a visible display. The plasma discharge also forms a wall charge potential on selected cells which constitutes a memory. The display is maintained by a lower amplitude sustain signal which combines with the wall charge potential to continuously discharge selected display cells at a nominal 40 kHz rate. Erasing is performed by effectively neutralising the wall charge at the selected cells, such that the combined wall charge potential and the sustain signal is insufficient to discharge the cell. The waveforms for sustain, write and erase operations serve separate functions as described above, and each function heretofore occupied separate time periods. The selection system full selects part of the pels in the panel, half selects others and on selects the remaining pels. The signal summation is sustain plus write voltages for a full select, sustain voltage only for a half select and sustain voltage minus write voltage for a non select. The non select case requires an adequate sustain voltage duration before the beginning of the write pulse to provide the non sustain function. In EP A 0 155 488, a 720 x 350 pel section of a 960 x 768 pel ac plasma panel operating from an IBM Personal Computer s CRT video adapter card is described. The video data rate is approximately 16 MHz, and the refresh rate, a non interlaced 50 frames per second. Plasma panel technology is designed to operate at a nominal 10 video cycle rate of 40 KHz to provide normal display intensity. As described, the system video updating is provided on a line by line basis by a full line write followed by a selective erase of the video data. To provide a nominal 40 KHz data rate needed for the 40 KHz cycle rate, it is apparent that modifications must be made thereto, to adjust the described inherent 16 MHz video data rate to approximate to the update rate needed for satisfactory plasma display operation. Accordingly, the present invention provides a plasma display device operated in video mode and including a plasma display video monitor having a plurality 25 of display cells arranged in a matrix configuration, means 24 for generating a visual representation of a data stream of video signals during a sequence of horizontal line scanning operations, said means including addressing means for updating said plasma display video monitor on a scan line basis, said addressing means applying a write sequence to a priming scan line and to a data scan line proximate said priming scan line whereby all display cells in the priming and data scan lines are written, said write sequence comprising a full write signal applied in coincidence with a sustain signal during sustain alternation, said addressing means applying to said data scan line a selective erase sequence to selectively erase the cells in said data scan line in accordance with contents of said data stream. By applying the write sequence to all cells in both the priming scan line and the data scan line combined with the selective erase operation in the data scan line in video mode, the conventional plasma display non select state is eliminated in this mode, whereby the combined time for write, erase and sustain operations is substantially reduced to correspond to the data rate of the data stream of video signals. Put another way, there is provided a method for increasing the operating speed of a plasma display device to permit operation in a line scanning video mode comprising in combination, applying a sustain signal to all cells in the display, applying a full select signal to a first and second data line in the plasma display whereby all cells in the first and second data line are written, and selectively erasing the first data line in accordance with the data stream to be displayed, the combined time for the full select, selective erase and sustain operations being short enough to permit operation of the plasma display device at a video data rate. In other words, the perceived requirement is for a system for updating a plasma panel at a rate compatible with plasma display operation. An ac plasma display system is designed to operate in video mode using a full line write followed by a selective erase technique. Conventionally, during a write operation, the write system requires a full length sustain signal to which a write pulse is selectively added. Further, the period of the sustain signal is increased during a write operation, frequently by a factor of two, since a full width sustain signal is required before the write pulse begins. In the preferred embodiment of the invention described hereinafter, using a full line write, both the write and sustain functions are such that there are only fully selected pels on the selected line and half selected pels in all other positions. There are no non selected pels, so the requirement for longer duration sustain signals for the non selected case is eliminated. The sustain and write signals are, in fact, coincident. The resultant time saving permits faster operation of the system to correspond to the data register loading speed and to the speed required for normal intensity. This is believed to provide reliable write, sustain and erase operations, while reducing the combined time to accomplish the functions of sustain, write and erase. The present invention will be described further, by way of example, with reference to a preferred embodiment thereof, as illustrated, together with other illustrative material, in the accompanying drawings, in which Referring now to the drawings and more particularly to Figure 1 thereof, the operation of the preferred embodiment of the invention will be described from the interface and control logic block 24, which has four inputs, a 40 MHz clock, a 40 MHz video source and vertical and horizontal synchronisation signals. In the preferred embodiment, the 40 MHz video data is applied only to the vertical lines, while the horizontal registers function for line selection under control of a logic block 21. The 40 MHz video data stream is applied to a frequency reducing logic block 23, where it is reduced to ten 4 MHz data streams. Although not shown at this level of detail and unnecessary to an understanding of the subject invention, this logic splits the 40 MHz video streams into 10 parallel, 4 MHz video streams having pulse widths to match their lower frequencies. Five of these data streams are applied to each of the driver modules 41, 43 which generate alternate drive signals from opposite sides of the panel. The cell configuration for plasma display panel 25 is 960 vertical lines x 768 horizontal lines for a total pel content of approximately three quarter million. While operated in video rather than XY selection mode, panel 25 is a commercially available ac plasma panel, commercially available as the IBM 3295 Plasma Monitor. The interface control logic 24 applies address data through data line 27 and shift line 29 to horizontal driver modules 31 and 33, each of which handles half of the horizontal lines, or 384 lines in alternate sequences. Since the driver modules 31 and 33 are identical, only one will be described in detail. Driver module 31 has a buffer latch register 35 between the input shift register 37 and the output drivers 39. Interface an control logic 24 uses the vertical Interface and control logic 21 uses the vertical synchronisation signal to prepare the control logic for the beginning of a frame by priming each of horizontal shift registers 37, 38 with a single shift bit to select the upper two panel lines, and then by using the output enable line 45, selects the first horizontal line to start the frame. The horizontal synchronisation pulse applied to interface and control logic 24 signals the impending arrival of video data and assists frequency reducing logic 23 to handle the video data as it arrives. The vertical driver modules 41 and 43, identical, are not conventional plasma panel panel driver modules. Conventional plasma panel driver modules cannot be used for the vertical line function because the panel line updating is overlapped with the loading of video data for the next panel line. The video data stream and associated clock pulses, as heretofore described, are applied from frequency reducing logic 23 to the shift registers of vertical driver modules 41 and 43. Once the video data is loaded into the vertical shift registers 51, 53 of driver modules 41 and 43, it is buffered in latch registers 55, 57 and the panel line is updated through line drivers 59, 61, while the video data for the next panel line is updated, the single floating shift bit in horizontal shift registers 37, 38 is advanced one position to select the next panel line, and the process repeats itself until the entire panel has been updated. As described above, 2 horizontal lines of 960 pels each are completely selected. The lower of the lines provides pilotting action for the adjacent upper line, which is selectively erased to generate a line of video data. Every panel line, from top to bottom, is updated using a complement convention. During vertical synchronisation time, all the cells of panel line 1 are turned on. This initial step prepares the way for the line updating sequence that follows. During each sweep time, the line ahead of the current line has all its cells turned ON, and then the current line is selectively erased in accordance with the shift register data to produce the desired line image patterns. In this way, the cells erased always have an adjacent cell in the ON state, and a good erase is therefore guaranteed, eliminating Pattern and Sequence Sensitivity, a plasma display problem described in EP A 0 155 488. In order to refresh the panel at approximately 50 frames per second, 768 panel lines have to be updated in about 20 milliseconds, which allows 27 microseconds for the updating of each panel line. As herein employed, the term updating designates one erase and one write operation, in either order, the second performed operation being selective in response to the data input. For plasma panel operation, the sustain function must also be provided during these continual write and erase operations. The problem solved by the invention is how to reliably write and erase in a sustain cycle that is substantially shorter than the conventional plasma write and erase cycle, i.e about 27 microseconds. Referring now to Figures 2 and 3, the operation of the preferred embodiment will be described in terms of the waveforms utilised in providing the sustain, write and erase functions. As described in EP A 0 155 488, slope waveforms, in which the write or erase pulse has a slope on its leading edge, are preferred over conventional rectangular pulses, since they produce less cross talk or noise in operation. Also, in the preferred embodiment of the invention, as previously described, video data is updated by writing all ones followed by selective erase. Referring now to Figure 2 a , reliable write and erase operations employ slope waveforms about 8 microseconds in duration. Each sustain iteration between 0 and v Figure 2 b illustrates the results of reducing the write and erase pulses to their absolute minimums, where the combined cycle is reduced to 27 microseconds. While the result is within the nominal 40 kHz cycle rate, the erase pulse is reduced to 5 microseconds and the write pulse to 6 microseconds for a total time saving of 5 microseconds. However, higher amplitude write and erase signals are required, while the write and erase margins are reduced. Further, these write and erase pulses are on the edge of satisfactory operation, and pulse durations below these values cannot be tolerated, producing a critical tolerance problems. If conventional full pulse widths are required, the only remaining way to reduce the combined cycle to 27 microseconds would be to reduce the two 8 microsecond sustain alternation widths. While the sustain alterations could be reduced to 7 microseconds, this would only provide a two microsecond saving, while producing a marginal operation. The ultimate solution will be described relative to Figure 2 c after reference has been made to matters illustrated in Figure 3. Figures 3 a to 3 d illustrate the waveforms for the horizontal and vertical sustain at write time, and the write pulse for both selection states selected and unselected on the same axes. In the preferred embodiment described, a full amplitude sustain signal from 0 to v In the non select state in Figure 3 g , the rear or trailing edge portion of the extra wide sustain is cancelled by the vertical unselected cell waveform, leaving only an 8 microsecond interval at the v This restriction does not apply in the video mode as implemented. Because of the method used to update each panel line, all three selection states do not exist independently at write time because the entire panel line all cells is written or selected. Thus, there are only fully selected pels on the selected lines, and half selected pels in all other positions. There are no non selected pels At write time, every vertical line is selected, guaranteeing that at least a half select condition occurs on every panel cell. In the video mode, at write time, only two selection states exist the full select state and the half select state. The full select state appears on the panel line being written. The half select state appears on all the remaining cells of the panel, providing them with a full 8 microseconds sustain level applied voltage. Returning now to Figure 2 c , which illustrates a composite write, buried sustain and erase waveform utilised in the embodiment and typical of the invention, the 8 microseconds sustain alternation before the non selected write pulse, as previously described, is no longer required. This allows the combined cycle to be realised using the optimum sustain, write and erase widths, of 8 microseconds each, to form a composited signal of 27 µs to spare, and a corresponding sustain frequency of 37 kHz. If only the minimum required 24 microseconds were utilised, the arrangement could operate at a data rate above 40 MHz. While the preferred embodiment of the invention has been described in terms of a full write followed by selective erase sequence, the invention could also operate with a full write on the leading line and, and therefor followed by, full erase followed in turn, by a selective write sequence.