# Use for the improvement or treatment of various diseases associated with cerebrovascular damages.

## Abstract
A use of 2 2 2 thienylmethyl phenoxymethyl mor pholine or a pharmaceutically acceptable acid addition salt thereof for the manufacture of a medicament for the im provement or treatment of various diseases associated with cerebrovascular damages or aging, is disclosed.

## Claims
What is claimed is 1. A use of 2 2 2 thienylmethyl phenoxymethyl morpholine or a pharmaceutically acceptable acid addition salt thereof for the manufacture of a medicament for the improvement or treatment of various diseases associated with cerebrovascular damages or aging. 2. The use of 2 2 2 thienylmethyl phenoxymethyl morpholine male ate for the manufacture of a medicament for the improvement or treatment of various disease associated with cerebrovascular damages or aging.

## Description
SPECIFICATION Field of the Invention The present invention relates to a new use of 2 2 2 thienylmethyl phenoxymethyl morpholine or a pharmaceutically acceptable acid addition salt thereof. Background of the Invention 1 U. S. Patent No. 4005084 or G. B. Patent No. 1466820 discloses 2 2 2 thienylmethyl phenoxymethyl morpholine or a pharmaceutically acceptable acid addition salt thereof having an anti ulcer activity. 2 Severe diseases caused by various cerebrovascular damages or aging have been increasing as the social tentions become higher. Furthermore, the increase of aged population accelerates such kind of diseases. Therefore, there have been strong demands for the development of the drugs or methods to improve or treat such diseases. Under these circumstances, many efforts have been performed to obtain effective drugs or establish therapeutical methods for various diseases associated with cerebrovascular damages or aging. Disclosure of the Invention The present inventors have also made intensive investigations, and now have found that 2 2 2 thienylmethyl phenoxymethyl morpholine or a pharmaceutically acceptable acid addition salt thereof is remarkably effective compound for the improvement or treatment of such diseases. The present invention relates to a use of 2 2 2 thienyl methyl phenoxymethyl morpholine or a pharmaceutically acceptable acid addition salt thereof for the manufacture of a medicament for the improvement of treatment of various diseases associated with cerebrovascular damages or aging. The pharmaceutically acceptable acid addition salt includes, for example7 maleate, fumarate, succinate, citrate7 acetate, malate, benzoate, hydrochloride, hydrobromide, phosphate and sulfate. Since the 2 2 2 thienylmethyl phenoxymethyl morpholine compound has an asymmetric carbon on the morpholine nucleus, there exist racemate and individual optical isomers.The present invention embrances them As a result of a series of pharmacological experiments by the present inventors, it is established that 2 2 2thienylmethyl phenoxymethyl morpholine or the pharmaceutically acceptable acid addition salt thereof exhibits anti amnesic activity, anti hypoxic activity, anti anoxic activity, reparative activity on cerebral energy state and increasing activity on glucose uptake into brain, and that the compounds are useful as an active ingredient of the drugs for the improvement or treatment of various diseases associated with cerebrovascular damages or aging Various diseases to be improved or treated by means of the present invention include, for example, senile dimentia, Alzheimer disease, and such symptoms as amnesia, disorientation, reduced initiation, reduced motivation, emotional disturbance and depressive state and so on caused by aging, head injury, brain operation, cerebral apoplexy, cerebral infarction, cerebral hemorrhage, cerebral athrosclerosis or cerebral tumor. The following pharmacological experiments illustrate the present invention in more detail. The compound employed in the experiments is as below. Compound A 2 2 2 thienylmethyl phenoxymetyl morpholine maleate. Experiment 1 Effects on experimentally induced amnesia for one trial passive avoidance response in mice Male ddy mice, weighing 19 25 g were used. The test apparatus consisted of a two compartment avoidance box with a large 10x23x20 cm compartment illuminated by a 40W bulb, and a small 14x14x20 cm shock compartment, painted black, with a floor made of metal rods 6 mm apart through which a foot shock FS, 0.25 mA, 2 seconds could be delivered. The two compartments were separated by a guillotine door. The training procedure consisted of placing the mouse in the center of the large compartment. Within 20 to 50 seconds the animal entered the small compartment and was immediately given FS, and removed from the compartment. The animals were exposed to CO2 for 8 seconds or given an electroconvulsive shock ECS, 30 mA, 0.5 seconds immediately after FS, or were injected with an amnestic agent scopolamine SCO, 3 mg kg i.p. 20 minutes before FS. The testing procedure consisted of placing the animal in the large compartment as above and noting the latency to enter the dark compartment up to 600 seconds. The training to test interval was 24 hours. Compound A or vehicle 0.5 methylcellulose was injected intraperitoneally immediately after exposure to CO2 or ECS. For the scopolamine induced amnesia model, they were injected intraperitoneally immediately after FS. Thirty mice were used per test group. The results in latency second observed are summerized in the following Tables 1 to 3. Table 1 Effect of Compound A on CO2 induced amnesia for step through passive avoidance response in mice.EMI4.1 tb SEP Dose tb SEP mg kg, SEP i. SEP p. SEP Latency1 SEP sec. tb Control SEP SEP 509.5 SEP SEP SEP 29.8 tb CO2 vehicle SEP control SEP SEP 201 SEP SEP 30.9 tb CO2 Compound SEP A SEP 5 SEP 324.5 SEP SEP SEP 37.1 tb p O.Ol significant difference vs. CO2 vehicle control 1 mean standard errorTable 2 Effect of Compound A on electroconvulsive shock ECS induced amnesia for step through passive avoidance response in mice. EMI5.1 tb SEP Dose tb SEP mg kg, SEP i. SEP p. SEP Latency1 SEP sec. tb Control SEP SEP 489.8 SEP SEP SEP 48.7 SEP tb ECS vehicle SEP control SEP SEP 220.8 SEP SEP SEP 40.7 tb RCS Compound SEP A SEP 5 SEP 357,5 SEP SEP 46.5 SEP tb ECS Compound SEP A SEP 5 SEP 357.5 SEP SEP 46.5 tb p 0.05, p 0.01 significant difference vs. ECS vehicle control 1 mean standard errorTable 3 Effect of Compound A on scopolamine induced amnesia for step through passive avoidance response in miceEMI5.2 tb SEP Dose SEP Latency1 SEP sec. tb SEP mg kg, SEP i. SEP p. tb Control SEP SEP 486.8 SEP SEP 34.9 SEP tb SEP SCO vehicle SEP control SEP SEP 78.6 SEP SEP 10.9 tb SCO Compound SEP A SEP 5 SEP 169.6 SEP SEP SEP 26.7 SEP tb p 0.05, p 0.01 significant difference vs. SCO vehicle control 1 mean standard error Experiment 2 Effects on hypoxia 1 Effect on normabaric hypoxia The experiment was performed according to the method by Yasuda et al described in Arch. Int. Pharmacolodyn., vol.233, p. 136 144 1978 . Three male ddY mice were introduced into a 300 ml glass container in which circulated a current of a gas mixture of nitrogen and oxygen 96 4 at the rate of about 51 minutes. The time to respiratory failure was recorded. Table 4 Effect on normabaric hypoxiaEMI6.1 tb SEP 1 SEP tb SEP Dose SEP Survival SEP time tb SEP mg kg, SEP i.p. SEP min. tb Control SEP SEP 2.68 SEP SEP 0.17 tb Compound SEP A SEP 30 SEP 3.87 SEP i SEP 0.32 SEP tb p 0.01 significant difference vs. control 1 mean standard error 2 Effect on hypobaric hypoxia According to the method of Nakanishi et al described inLife Sci., vol. 13, p. 467 474 1973 , female ddy mice were intraperitoneally injected with Compound A and 30 minutes later placed in a sealed chamber then the pressure was decreased to 210 mmHg.The survival time, from induction of hypoxia to respiratory failure, of the animals was determined up to 15 minutes and compared with that obtained in the control group. Table 5 Effect on hypobaric hypoxiaEMI6.2 SEP Dose SEP Survival SEP time SEP sec. tb SEP mg kg, SEP i. SEP p. SEP log SEP t SEP SEP SEP S. SEP E. tb Control SEP SEP 2.43 SEP SEP SEP 0.04 tb Compound SEP A SEP 30 SEP 2.74 SEP SEP SEP 0.06 SEP tb p 0.OI significant difference vs. controlS.E. means standard error Experiment 3 Effect on KCN induced anoxia 1 Effect on recovery of righting reflex Male dd mice were intraperitoneally injected with CompoundA 30 minutes prior to the intravenous injection of 1.8 mg kg of KCN saline solution. The time to recovery of righting reflex, coma time, was determined. Table 6 Effect on KCN induced comaEMI7.1 tb SEP Dose SEP Coma SEP time SEP sec. tb SEP mg kg, SEP i. SEP p. SEP log SEP t SEP SEP S.E. tb Control SEP SEP 2.16 SEP SEP 0.040 tb Compound SEP A SEP 10 SEP 1.95 SEP SEP 0.039 SEP tb p 0.01 significant difference vs. control S.E. means standard error 2 Effect on KCN induced mortality Male dd mice were intraperitoneally given Compound A 30 minutes before the intravenous injection of a lethal dose 2.5 mg kg of KCN saline solution. Inhibitory effect on the mortality by KCN was tested. Table 7 Inhibitory effect on XCN induced mortalityEMI7.2 tb SEP Dose SEP Survival SEP animals SEP Lethality tb SEP mg kg,i.p. SEP animals SEP used tb Control SEP SEP SEP 2 10 SEP 80 tb Compound SEP A SEP 30 SEP 10 10 SEP 0 tb p 0.01 significant difference vs. control Experiment 4 Effect on cerebral energy state in KCN induced anoxia mice Male ddy mice weighing 22 26 g were used. Compound A was dissolved in 0.5 methylcellulose solution and injected intraperitoneally. After administration, 2.5 mg kg of KCN in saline was injected intravenously.The animals were frozen in liquid nitrogen at 30 or 120 seconds laterm After removing and weighing the frozen cerebrums were powdered.According to the procedure by Lowry, O. H. et al described in A flexible system of enzymatic analysis Academic press 1978 or by Yasuda et al described in Arch. Int. Pharmacodyn., vol.242, p 77 85 1979 , contents of Phosphocreatine P creatine ,ATP, ADP, AMP, glucose and lactate in brain were determined.Concentrations Cu moles g of brain were calculated.Students t test was used in the statical analysis of the results. The results are summerized in Table 8. Table 8 Effect on cerebral energy state in KCN induced anoxia mice EMI9.1 SEP Time SEP after SEP KCN SEP 2.5 SEP mg kg SEP i.v. tb SEP 30 SEP sec. SEP 120 SEP sec. tb SEP Intact SEP Control SEP Compound SEP A SEP Control SEP Compound SEP A tb P creatine SEP 3.27 SEP SEP 0.16 SEP 1.80 SEP SEP 0.10 SEP 2.52 SEP SEP 0.13 SEP 0.07 SEP SEP 0.03 SEP 2.40 SEP SEP 0.09 tb ATP SEP 2.74 SEP SEP 0.12 SEP 2.33 SEP SEP 0.05 SEP 2.62 SEP SEP 0.07 SEP 0.28 SEP SEP 0.02 SEP 2.60 SEP SEP 0.02 tb ADF SEP 0.496 SEP SEP 0.026 SEP 0.730 SEP SEP 0.011 SEP 0.599 SEP SEP 0.020 SEP 0.651 SEP SEP 0.024 SEP 0.509 SEP SEP 0.023 tb AMP SEP 0.066 SEP SEP 0.008 SEP 0.219 SEP SEP 0.018 SEP 0.107 SEP SEP 0.009 SEP 2.159 SEP SEP 0.051 SEP 0.044 SEP SEP 0.005 tb ECPa SEP 0.904 SEP SEP 0.003 SEP 0.820 SEP SEP 0.017 SEP 0.880 SEP SEP 0.004 SEP 0.197 SEP SEP 0.007 SEP 0.905 SEP SEP 0.004 tb Glucose SEP 1.67 SEP SEP 0.16 SEP 0.56 SEP SEP 0.05 SEP 1.25 SEP SEP 0.11 SEP 0.14 SEP SEP 0.02 SEP 0.64 SEP SEP 0.04 tb Lactate SEP 1.69 SEP SEP 0.19 SEP 5.65 SEP SEP 0.20 SEP 4.92 SEP SEP 0.17 SEP 9.90 SEP SEP 0.37 SEP 7.42 SEP SEP 0.42 tb Concentrations are in mol g of wet tissue. p 0.01 significant difference vs. control a Energy charge potential ECP Experiment 5 Effect of chronic administration on the 2 deoxy D glucose uptake into rat brain Compound A was administered intraperitoneallyto male Wistar rat once daily for 14 days. 3H 2 deoxy D glucose 40 uCi kg, i.p. was injected to rats 27 hours after the last administration of Compound A. Fifteen minuts after the injection of 3H 2deoxy D glucose, the animals were decapitated and blood from trunk was collected simultaneously. The brains were dissected into five regions. Radioactivity in the brain sample and serum was counted using Soluene 350 and toluene scintillator.The results are summerized in Table 9. Each value represents the mean standard error. Table 9 Effect of chronic administration on the 2 deoxy D glucose uptake into various regions of rat brain.EMI10.1 tb SEP Region SEP Dose SEP dpm mg SEP tissue SEP tb SEP mg kg SEP n SEP dpm l SEP serum tb Parietal tb SEP cortex SEP 10 SEP 5 SEP 1.27 SEP 0.11 SEP 21 tb Hippocampus SEP 10 SEP 5 SEP 0.90 SEP 0.07 SEP 20 tb p 0.05 significant difference vs. control Experiment 6 Acute Toxicity Compound A was orally administered to male Wistar rats weighing about 200 g and male ddY mice weighing 20 25 g.After one week observation, the LD50 value mg kg was measured.The results are shown in Table 10. Table 10 Acute toxicity in rats and mice.EMI11.1 tb Animals SEP SEP LD50 SEP mg kg, SEP p.o. tb SEP Rats SEP SEP 1,712 tb SEP Mice SEP 716 tb The results of above experiments show that the compound of the present invention exhibits really remarkable activity, and is useful as an active ingredient of the drug for improvement and treatment of various diseases associated with cerebrovascular damages or aging. The compound of the present invention can be administered orally or parenterally, i,e, intraperitoneally, intraveneously or subcutaneously, in human beings in the form of a pharmaceutical composition such as tablets, sugar coated tablets, powder, granules, pills, syrup, injectable solution or suppositories. The pharmaceutical composition can prepared by, for example, mixing a therapeutically effective amount of the compound of the present invention with a conventional and pharmaceutically acceptable additives such as an excipient, an extender on a diluent. The choice of such additive is determined by the preferred form of administration, the solubility of the compound and standard pharmaceutical practice. The dose may vary depending upon the disease to be treated or the conditions of the patients to be treated, but the daily dose for human adults preferably ranges from 10 to 300 mg, in one to several times divided doses. Formulation Example 20.0 mg tablets can be prepared according to the following composition Compound A 20.0 mg Crystalline cellulose lQ.0 Lactose 44.5 Corn starch 15.0 Magnesium stearate 0.5 90.0 mg Compound A 20.0 mg , crystalline cellulose 19.0 mg and lactose 44.5 mg are mixed well and kneaded with a binder prepared by corn starch 1.0 mg , and then the reminder of corn starch and magnesium stearete 0.5 mg are admixed and compressed into tablets weighting 90.0 mg.