# CONTROLLED RADIAL MAGNETIC BEARING DEVICE.

## Abstract
A controlled radial magnetic bearing device has control circuits 7X, 7Y which control the magnetic force of electro magnets 2 that magnetically support a rotary shaft 1 , responsive to outputs of position sensors 5X, 5Y that detect the position of the rotary shaft 1 in a radial direction. Into the control circuits 7X, 7Y is inserted a band elimination filter 10 of which the central frequency is twice, or two and four times as much as the number of revolutions detected by a revolving speed detector 12 . The filter 10 removes frequency components that stem from vibration, and prevents the voltage applied by a control power output unit to the electromagnets 2 from saturating.

## Claims
Claim 1. A controlled radial magnetic bearing device having electromagnets arranged around a rotary shaft at a suitable distance therebetween for bearing the rotary shaft in a radial direction by magnetic force, position sensors for detecting the radial position of the rotary shaft, and control circuits for controlling said electromagnets in response to the output of said position sensors to keep the rotary shaft at a predetermined radial position, characterised in that said control curcuits include a speed detecting means for detecting the number of revolutions of the rotary shaft and a band rejection filter, the center frequency of which is a frequency equal to the double of the number of revolutions of rotary shaft or frequencies equal to the double and quadruple of the number of revolutions of the rotary shaft detected by said speed detecting means. 2. The magnetic bearing device as claimed in claim 1, wherein said control circuits comprise a difference signal amplifier for amplifying the difference signal AV indicative of the difference between a reference voltage Vox indicative of the reference position of the rotary shaft in the X axis direction and the output of the position sensor for X axis, a phase compensating circuit for receiving the output of said difference signal amplifier and compensating the lead or delay in phase of the control system, a band rejection filter having a center frequency which is a frequency equal to the double, or the double and quadruple of the number of revolutions of the rotary shaft detected by said speed detecting means, and a power amplifier for amplifying the output of said band rejection filter. 3. The magnetic bearing device as claimed in claim 1 or 2, wherein said band rejection filter is a variable bandrejection filter which has a center frequency varying in response to the output of said speed detecting means. 4. The magnetic bearing device as claimed in any of claims 1 3, wherein said band rejection filter starts to operate from the rotating speed nO in revolutions per second which is about 0.7 time the maximum speed of the rotary shaft for a predetermined load, the center frequency of said band rejection filter being fixed to 2n0 at any lower rotating speed.

## Description
SPECIFICATION Controlled Radial Magnetic Bearing Device Technical Field The present invention relates to a magnetic bearing device, and particularly to a controlled radial magnetic bearing device. Background of Technology Controlled radial magnetic bearing devices are known.Such magnetic bearing devices are widely used as bearings for light load, high speed machine tools such as a milling spindle in view of advantages that there is no mechanical contact and friction. It can keep a rotary shaft at a predetermined radial position by its controlled magnetic force. A magnetic bearing device of this type includes electromagnets arranged at a suitable distance therebetween around the rotary shaft to bear the rotary shaft in a radial direction by magnetic force, position sensors for detecting the radial position of the rotary shaft, and control circuits for controlling the electromagnets to maintain the rotary shaft at a predetermined radial position according to the output of the position sensor. The electromagnet includes a bias coil for generating the main magnetic flux for the magnetic bearing by supplying a predetermined current, and a control coil. Between the position sensor and the control coil, a servo circuit is provided. When the position sensor detects any displacement of the rotary shaft from the predetermined position, the servo circuit supplies to the control coil such a deviation signal as to bring the rotary shaft back to its predetermined position, thereby maintaining the rotary shaft at its predetermined radial position. One problem is that if such a radial magnetic bearing is used as the bearing for the spindle of a machine tool, disturbance produced by the cutter during cutting causes the spindle to vibrate at a frequency number of revolutions per second near its natural frequency, thus making it impossible to obtain a sufficient cutting force. In order to solve this problem, Japanese patent application 58 122753 proposed to give a gain increase and phase advance to the control circuit in a frequency band corresponding to the natural frequency of the spindle, thereby damping the undue effect of disturbance in the frequency band. This solution achieved a drastic increase in the cutting capacity over the conventional machine. However, with such a controlled radial magnetic bearing, disturbance in rotation at a frequency band corresponding to the natural frequency of the rotary shaft can be effectively damped, but, in cutting under heavy load with a large cutting depth, the spindle vibrates at frequencies equal to integral numbers of times the number of revolutions of the spindle. If such a disturbance is suppressed by magnetic force, voltage saturation will occur at the control power output section, thus disabling control. An object of the present invention is to provide a controlled radial magnetic bearing device which has a stable control characteristics, not forcibly controlling the vibration of withe spindle under heavy load. Another object of the present invention is to provide a controlled radial magnetic bearing device which removes the control outputs of the frequency components which are double and quadruple the number of revolutions at heavy load, providing only the rigidity obtained by inertia force acting on the shaft to such frequencies, thereby avoiding voltage saturation of the control system by such frequencies and retaining the control function mainly to other lower frequencies. Disclosure of the Invention In accordance with the present invention, there is provided a controlled radial magnetic bearing device having electromagnets arranged around a rotary shaft at a suitable distance therebetween for bearing a rotary shaft in a radial direction by magnetic force, position sensors for detecting the radial position of the rotary shaft, and control circuits for controlling the electromagnets in response to the output of the position sensors to keep the rotary shaft at a predetermined radial position, characterised in that a bandrejection filter is provided in each of the control circuits, the center frequency of the band rejection filter being a frequency equal to the double, or the double and quadruple of the number of revolutions of the rotary shaft. With the magnetic bearing device according to the present invention, if the rotary shaft used as the spindle of a machine tool vibrates at heavy load at frequencies double and quadruple the number of revolutions of the rotary shaft and the vibration is detected by the position sensors, the band rejection filter in the control circuit removes the frequency components of the control output resulting from the vibration, thereby preventing the voltage saturation at the section which outputs a control power to the electromagnets The spindle of a machine tool using a conventional magnetic bearing device controlled by control circuits not having such a band rejection filter, vibrates at a frequency fn equal to the number of revolutions as shown in Fig. 2a when turning under no load, and shows vibrations including vibration components at frequency 2n equal to the double of the number of revolutions and at frequency 4n equal to the quadruple of the number of revolutions, as shown in Fig. 2b, when turning for cutting under heavy load. This is known by performing the frequency analysis of the outputs of the position sensors. In such a case, voltage saturation sometimes occurs at these particular frequencies at the output section of the control system. With the present invention, because the control circuits are provided with a band rejection filter, the center frequency of which is the frequency 2n or, 2n and 4nut such a voltage saturation at the control power output section is prevented. In this case, although the frequency component at frequency fn is naturally present, voltage saturation is not caused by the frequency component because the variation in the peak value is small in comparison with the vibrations at other frequencies and the gain of voltage at the control power output section in the control circuit is low. Other features, objects and advantages of the present invention will become apparent from the following descripton about the embodiment taken with reference to the accompanying drawings. Simplified Explanation of the Drawings Fig 1 is a block diagram of an embodiment of controlled radial magnetic bearing device according to the present invention Figs. 2a and 2b are waveforms showing the results of frequency analysis of periodical radial displacement of a conventional magnetic bearing. Best Form for Embodying Invention Referring to Fig. 1, a rotary shaft I used e.g. as the spindle of a machine tool is rotated by a motor 3 in the direction of arrow B, magnetically supported in a radial direction by a radial magnetic bearing 2 having electromagnets 2X for X axis and electromagnets 2Y for Y axis disposed on an X axis and a Y axis, respectively, perpendicular to each other in a plane at right angles to the axis of the rotary shaft 1. Numeral 4 designates a thrust magnetic bearing for suppressing any displacement of the rotary shaft 1 in an axial direction Z. Two or more radial magnetic bearings 2 are usually provided at suitable axial positions e.g. near the ends of the rotary shaft. On the X axis and Y axis, a position sensor 5X for Xaxis and a position sensor 5Y for Y axis are arranged, respectively. They detect any displacement of the rotary shaft with respect to its reference position in the X axis and Y axis directions, respectively, and generate outputs proportional to the amounts of displacement. The electro magnets 2X and 2Y have control windings 6X, 6Y, respectively, for adjusting their magnetic forces. The exciting currents for these control windings are controlled by a control circuit 7X for X axis and a control circuit 7Y forY axis, respectively, which will be described later.Similarly, the radial magnetic bearing provided at the bottom of the rotary shaft 1 is provided with a control circuit 7X for X axis and a control circuit 7Y for Y axis. The control circuit 7X for X axis comprises a difference signal amplifier 8 for amplifying any difference signal DV between a reference voltage Vox indicative of a reference position of the rotary shaft in the X axis direction and the output of the position sensor 5X for Xaxis, a phase compensating circuit 9 for receiving the output of the difference signal amplifier 8 and compensating the lead or delay in phase of the control system, a variable band rejection filter 10 for removing the frequency compo nents double and quadruple the number of revolutions from the output of the phase compensating circuit 9 according to the output of a speed detecting means 12 which will be described later, and a power amplifier 11 for amplifying the output of the filter 10. The abovesaid frequency components are eliminated by the filter 101 so that the power amplifier ll will be prevented from voltage saturation. The speed detecting means 12 generates an output proportional to the number of revolutions of the rotary shaft 1 According to its output, the band rejection filter 10 removes the particular frequency components. The filter 10 should be so set as to start operation from a speed nO in revolutions per second which is about 0.7 time the maximum speed of the rotary shaft 1 for a specified load, with the central frequency fixed at 2n0 for any speed below the speed nOO This is because if the filter 10 are operated at speed below nO, the effect of damping any natural vibration component will be decreased. Industrial Availability With the controlled radial magnetic bearing device according to the present invention, voltage saturation at the control power output section will not occur even when the spindle of a machine tool is rotating under high load. A stable control characteristic can be obtained with a relatively low line voltage. Therefore, the controlled radial magnetic bearing device can be widely used with the spindle of various industrial machines.