# 1 Hydroxyphenyl 3 methyl 4 difluoromethyl delta 2 1,2,4 triazolin 5 one derivatives.

## Abstract
Novel triazolinone derivatives represented by the gen eral formula I The triazolinone derivatives are useful as inter mediates for preparing agricultural chemicals, particularly for preparing useful herbicides.

## Claims
WHAT IS CLAIMED IS 1. 1 Hydroxyphenyl 3 methyl 4 difluoromethyl A2 l,2,4 triazolin 5 one derivatives represented by the general formula I ,EMI8.1 therein R is a hydrogen atom or a fluorine atom . 2. 1 3 Hydroxyphenyl 3 methyl 4 difluoromethyl A2 l, 2, 4 triazolin 5 one. 3. 1 2 Fluoro 5 hydroxyphenyl 3 methyl 4 difluoromethyl 2 1,2,4 triazolin 5 one. 4. A method of preparing compounds of the general formula I , as defined in Claim 1, which comprises diazotizing a compound of the general formula II , EMI8.2 wherein R is as defined in Claim 1, and thermally decomposing the diazotized product. 5. Use of compounds of the general formula I , as defined in Claim 1, in the preparation of agricultural chemicals. 6. Use of compounds of the general formula I , as defined in Claim 1, in the preparation of herbicides.

## Description
NOVEL 1 HYDROXYPHENYL 3 METHYL 4 DIFLUOROMETHYL 2 1 ,2,4 TRIAZOLIN 5 ONE DERIVATIVESFIELD OF THE INVENTION The present invention relates to novel triazolinone derivatives and process for preparing the same. The triazolinone derivatives of the present invention are represented by the general formula I ,EMI1.1 wherein R is a hydrogen atom or a fluorine atom . The triazolinone derivatives of the present invention have not been known yet from any of literature, and thus they are novel compounds. They are useful as intermediates for preparing agricultural chemicals, particularly for preparing useful herbicides.DESCRIPTION OF THE PRIOR ART Some of herbicides described in U. S. Patent No. ,398,943imay may be derived from triazolinone derivatives of of the present invention as the intermediates. SUIYiYARY OF THE INVENTION An object of the present invention is to provide novel triazolinone derivatives. Another object of the present invention is to provide process for preparing the triazolinone derivatives.DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF PREFERRED EMBODIMENTS The triazolinone derivatives of the present invention represented by the general formula I ,EMI2.1 wherein R is the same as defined above , may be prepared by diazotizing l aminophenyl 3 methyl 4 difluoromethyl A2 1,2,4 triazolin 5 one represented by the general formula II , EMI2.2 wherein R is the same as defined abovel, with sodium nitrite in an aqueous sulfuric acid by a method commonly used in diazotization, to obtain the corresponding diazotized.product represented by the general formula II , EMI3.1 wherein R is the same as defined above , then the resulting diazotized product, without being separated from the reaction mixture is thermally decomposed to yield the desired l hydroxyphenyl 3 methyl 4 difluoromethyl A2 l, 2, 4 triazolin 5 one represented by the general formula I . These reaction are shown in the following reaction scheme.EMI3.2 wherein R is the same as defined above . In the above mentioned diazotization, the reaction may preferably be carried out at a temperature below Soc under a cooling condition. The thermal decomposition may be carried out at a temperature preferably be selected from in the range from a room temperature to 2500C. The reaction may be carried out within from 0.5 to 6 hours. In the diazotization, the amount of sodium nitrite may be selected from in the range from 1.0 to 2.0 moles, and the amount of sulfuric acid may be selected from in the range from 1.5 to 15 moles per one mole of 1 aminophenyl 3 methyl 4 difluoromethyl A2 1, 2,4 triazolin 5 one represented by the general formula II . After the completion of the decomposition, the crystals formed in the reaction mixture are collected by filtration, and recrystallized or extracted with a solvent, then the extract is dried and the solvent is removed by evaporation to obtain the desired product of l hydroY.yphenyl 3 methyl 4 diEluoromethyl A2 1,2,4 triazolin 5 one represented by the general formula I . In the above mentioned reaction, l aminophenyl 3 methyl 4 difluoromethyl A2 1,2,4 triazolin 5one represented by the general formula II used as the starting material may be synthesized, for example by the following method. EMI5.1 wherein R is the same as defined above R and R are each a lower alkyl group X is an oxygen atom or sulfur atom and Z is a halogen atom . In the above mentioned reactions, the ringclosing reaction is carried out by reacting a hydrazine represented by the general formula VII with a compound represented by the general formula VI in an inert solvent under heating condition to obtain l nitrophenyl 3 methyl ê 1,2,4 triazolin 5 one represented by the general formula V , this product V is reacted with a compound represented by the general formula IV in an inert solvent to prepare l nitrophenyl 3 methyl 4 difluoromethyl A21,2,4 triazolin 5 one represented by the general formula III , next this compound III is reduced in the presence of a reducing agent to prepare l amino 2 phenyl 3 methyl 4 difluoromethyl 2 1,2,4 triazolin 5one. The present invention will be explained in detail by showing the following Examples, however, the present invention will not be restricted only to theseExamples.Example 1 38 Grams 0.16 mole of l 3 aminophenyl 3 methyl 4 difluoromethyl A2 l, 2, 4 triazolin 5 one was dissolved in 134 ml of 508 by volume sulfuric acid, and the solution was cooled to below OOC, Then to this solution was added dropwise 63 ml of an aqueous solution prepared by dissolving 10.9 g 0.16 mole of sodium nitrite under keeping the reaction temperature at below OC. After the dropwise addition of sodium nitrite solution was completed, the reaction mixture was further stirred for 30 minutes, then 350 ml of water was added to the reaction mixture, and further reaction was carried out for 2 hours at 700C. After the reaction was completed, the reaction mixture was cooled, and the crystals formed in the reaction mixture were collected by filtration, and recrystallized from isopropanol to yield 33.9 g of 1 3 hydroxyphenyl 3 methyl 4 difluoromethyl A2 1,2,4 triazolin 5 one. Melting point 129 1320C. Yield 89.3 . Example 2 0.77 Gram 0.003 mole of l 2 fluoro 5 aminophenyl 3 methyl 4 difluoromethyl A2 1,2,4 triazolin 5 one was dissolved in 2.4 ml of 50 by volume sulfuric acid, and the solution was cooled at below OOC. Then to this solution was added dropwise 0.7 g of an aqueous solution prepared by dissolving 0.21 g 0.003 mole of sodium nitrite by keeping the reaction temperature at below 0 C. After the addition of the sodium nitrite solution was finished, then the reaction mixture was stirred for 30 minutes. The reaction mixture was added dropwise to 4 ml of a 50 sulfuric acid being heated at 1600C. The whole reaction mixture was allowed to stand to cool at a room temperature, and water was added to the reaction mixture. Then the reaction mixture was extracted with ethyl acetate, and dried, then the solvent was removed by evaporation to yield 0.37 g of l 2 fluoro 5 hydroxyphenyl 3 methyl 4 difluoromethyl A2 1,2, 4 triazolin 5 one. Melting point 115.50C. Yield 47.4 .