# ROTARY DRUM SHEAR

## Claims
Drehtrommelschere mit zwei zueinander gegensinnig rotierenden Trommeln, die jeweils auf ihrem Umfang ein Spiralmesser 3,4 tragen, so daß zwischen den Trommeln 1,2 zugeführtes Material durch das Eingreifen der kraft der Drehbewegung der Trommeln 1,2 bewegten Messer 3,4 zugeschnitten wird, dadurch gekennzeichnet, daß die Messer 3,4 so ausgebildet sind, daß der Überstand des Messereingriffspunktes auf der Ebene einschließlich der Trommelachsen sich linear mit der Drehung der Trommel 1,2 bewegt und der Bahnverlauf des Überstandes mit den Trommelachsen parallel liegt und daß sich der Abstand zwischen diesem Punkt und der Ebene auch linear mit der Trommeldrehung verändert, wobei die Formen der Messer 3,4 wie folgt dargestellt sind wenn eine Drehachse einer der Trommeln eine Z Achse ist, ist eine Achse, die senkrecht zu einer Ebene einschließlich der Drehachsen beider Trommeln und senkrecht zur Achse Z liegt, eine Y Achse, eine Richtung, die senkrecht zu den Achsen Z und Y liegt, eine X Achse, eine Zuführgeschwindigkeit des zu schneidenden Materials ist V, eine Länge zwischen einem Startpunkt S des Eingreifens und der Endigungspunkten EA und EB längs der Achse Z ist L, die Winkel zwischen dem Startpunkt S und den auf eine Ebene XY projektierten Endigungspunkten EA und EB sind βEA bzw. βEB, die Phasen des Startpunkts S in der Ebene XY sind ϑA und ϑB, die Phasen der Punkte der Schneiden auf den Trommeln für den Punkt S in der Ebene XY sind βA und βB, die Phasen eines Punktes G, in dem die Schneide der Trommeln 1,2 das Material in Bezug auf den Punkt S schneidet, sind βAO und βBO, die Entfernungen zwischen dem Startpunkt S und den Mittelpunkten der Trommeln sind RSA bzw. RSB, und die Positionen XA, YA, ZA und XB, YB, ZB der Schneiden auf den Trommeln genügen den nachstehenden Gleichungen XA rAcos βA ϑA YA rAsin βA ϑA XB rB rA rBcos βB ϑB YB rBsin βB ϑB

## Description
The present invention relates to a rotary drum shear including two drums rotating in the opposite direction to each other and each having a spiral knife on the periphery thereof so that material fed between the drums is cut by engagement of the knives brought by the rotation of the drums. A prior art rotary drum shear includes drums which are rotatably disposed at the upper and lower sides and carry straight knives fixedly mounted substantially parallelly along an axis of the drums, respectively. The drums are rotated in the opposite direction to each other so that the knives mounted on the drums are engaged with each other once per rotation to cut a long material fed between the drums by the engagement of the knives. With such a device, when the feeding speed of the material to be always cut changes, it is necessary to increase or decrease the rotational speed of the drums in response to the feeding speed of the material in order to cut the material at a predetermined length exactly. Accordingly, large load is applied to a motor for driving the upper and lower drums and a high powered motor is required. As a countermeasure, if load in other portions is lightened, it is possible to use a low powered motor with low consumption energy. For this purpose, it is considered that a value GD² where G is weight and D is a diameter of the drum of the drum and a rotating system in the rotary drum shear is reduced. However, since there is a close relation between the GD² and a rigidity, if the GD² is reduced, a flexural rigidity or torsional rigidity of the drum is deceased and the following deficiency are caused. While it is required not to enlarge a gap between both the knives in order to cut the material sharply and smoothly, if the rigidity of the drums for supporting the knives is small, the drums are largely bent due to large cutting load generated when cutting and the gap between the knives is enlarged, thereby damaging the cutting quality and the cutting ability greatly. In order to solve the above problem, there has been recently proposed a method in which curved or spiral knives on the drums are used. According to a theoretical and experimental study of the inventor when the curved knives are used, cutting load can be greatly reduced. In other words, assuming that the cutting load is 1 when a lead angle of the knives that is an angle of the knives with regard to an axial line of the drums is 0.5 , the cutting load is about 0.5 when the lead angle is 1 , the load is about 0.25 when the angle is 2 , the load is about 0.17 when the angle is 3 , the load is about 0.13 when the angle is 4 , and the load is about 0.1 when the angle is 5 . Thus, the cutting load can be reduced as the lead angle is increased. Accordingly, the rigidity and the GD² of the rotating drums can be reduced, so that the power of the motor can be reduced and energy can be saved. As described above, by using the spiral knives in the rotary drum shear, there can be expected large merits. However, there is a disadvantage that the material is obliquely cut. A web cutoff device with a knife extending obliquely to the roll axis and its edge is inclined with respect to the roll surface is disclosed in US A 2,478,240, however, the other knife of this device extends straight and axially of the roll. The trajectory of engaging point of the knives of this device is not perpendicular to the direction of the web feeding. Accordingly the cutoff line on the web is oblique. FIG. 1 a is a perspective view showing a rotary drum shear including spiral knives and the cutting operation thereof. FIG. 1 b shows a sectional view of the knives in the engagement condition taken along line I I of FIG. 1 a . In FIG. 1 a , numerals 1 and 2 denote upper and lower drums, respectively, which is rotated at an equal speed and in the opposite direction to each other, numerals 3 and 4 denote knives mounted spirally on the external peripheries of the drums 1 and 2, respectively, and numerals 5 denotes a long material to be cut which is fed between the drums 1 and 2. The material 5 is fed between the drums in a perpendicular direction to rotational axes of the drums 1 and 2. However, the cutting line for the material is inclined by an angle of 90 α with regard to the feeding direction as shown in FIG. 1 a . The reason why the cutting line is inclined is because engagement angles ϑ It is an object of the present invention to provide a rotary drum shear including spiral knives and preventing tie inclination of the cutting line due to cutting lag, thereby saving energy by reducing the load applied to the drum shear. In order to achieve the above object, the gist of the present invention resides these features mentioned in claim 1. A further preferable development is mentioned in claim 2. The rotary drum shear according to the present invention will now be described in detail with reference to an embodiment shown in drawings, in which In FIGS. 2 and 3, numerals 1 and 2 denote upper and lower drums, respectively, each having shafts 6 and 7 of which ends are rotatably mounted on a frame 10 through bearings 8 and 9, respectively. Gears 11 and 12 which are fixedly mounted on the shafts 6 and 7 at both sides of the drums 1 and 2, respectively, are meshed with each other. A further gear 13 is fixedly mounted on the shaft 7 of the drum 7 at the outside of the frame 10. The gear 13 is meshed with a gear 16 mounted on a drive shaft 15 of a motor 14. Thus, the motor 14 rotates the upper and lower drums 1 and 2 in the opposite direction to each other and at the equal rotational speed equal angular velocity . Knives 3 and 4 are spirally mounted on the peripheries of the drums 1 and 2, respectively. More particularly, as shown in FIG. 3, fitting planes 17 and 18 are spirally formed on the upper and lower drums 1 and 2 and the knives 3 and 4 are fixedly mounted on the planes 17 and 18 by means of bolts 19 and 20. Adjusting bolts 21 and 22 and adjusting nuts 23 and 24 are provided on back sides of the knives 3 and 4 so that positions of the knives 3 and 4 can be adjusted finely. Thus, the upper and lower knives 3 and 4 are formed so that distances R A shape and a fitting state of the knives in which the inclined angle α shown in FIG. 1 a is reduced to zero will be described. FIG. 5 illustrates a projected state of FIG. 4 in the direction Z as an example of a shape of the knives. Referring to FIG. 5, the upper knife 3 is shown by a line In order to attain the engagement of the knives 3 and 4 in which the material is not cut obliquely, the engagement point of the knives 3 and 4 is moved from the start point S through a point G on the line V where r On the other hand, in order to engage both the knives indicated by lines In the above equations, when r FIG. 5 shows a shape of the knife when β When the length between the start point S and the termination points Ea and Eb along the axis Z is L and the angles between the start point S and the termination points Ea and Eb projected on the plane XY are β When the upper and lower knives 3 and 4 are set in the manner shown in the above equations, it can be attained to cut the material without inclination. This condition can be formularized as follows. When the rotating axis of one drum is the axis Z, the axis perpendicular to a plane including the rotating axes of both the drums and perpendicular to the axis Z is the axis Y, the direction perpendicular to the axes Z and Y is the axis X, a running or feeding speed of the material to be cut is V, the length between the start point S of the engagement and the termination points E Further, the running speed V of the material to be cut and the angular velocities ω In the rotary drum shear according to the present invention, the upper and lower drums 1 and 2 are rotated in the opposite direction to each other and at the same angular speed by the motor 14 and the upper and lower knives 3 and 4 fixedly mounted on the drums 3 and 4, respectively, are approached and engaged with each other once per rotation of the drums 1 and 2 and then separated from each other, such an operational cycle being repeated. Since the knives 3 and 4 are formed so that the distance from the rotational centers of the drums 1 and 2 to the engagement position of the knives is gradually reduced along the axis thereof from the start position of the engagement of the knives 3 and 4, the time lag of cutting operation is restored and the material can be cut substantially perpendicular to the feeding direction of the material. As actual shapes of the knives 3 and 4 and the drums 1 and 2, there is considered a manner in which the drums 1 and 2 are conical and the width of the knives 3 and 4 is constant, or a manner in which the drums 1 and 2 are cylindrical and the width of the knives 3 and 4 is gradually reduced. As described above in detail with reference to the embodiment, according to the present invention, the rotary drum shear includes two drums rotating in the opposite direction to each other and each having a spiral knife on the periphery thereof so that material fed between the drums is cut by engagement of the knives brought by the rotation of the drums and the knives are formed so that a distance from a rotational center of the drums to the engagement position of the knives is gradually reduced along the axis of the drums from a start point of the engagement of the knives and the engagement position of the knives is moved in response to the movement of the material to be cut. Accordingly, the material can be cut at the substantially right angle to the feeding direction thereof, resulting in the improvement of the cutting quality, the reduction of the load and saving energy.