# Derivatives of 5 fluorouracil.

## Abstract
This invention relates an antitumor active 5 fluorouracil derivative represented by the general formula

## Claims
Claims 1. A 5 fluoroaracil derivative represented by the general formulaEMI13.1 wherein R1 and R2 represent hydrogen atom or lower alkyl group, and n is zero or an integer of 1. 2. The 5 fluorouracil derivative according to Claim 1, wherein R1 and R2 represent hydrogen or methyl group 3. l 4,4 dimethyl 6 oxo l cyclohexenyl methylcarbamoyl 5 fluorouracil and salt thereof. 4. 1 6 oxo 1 cyclohexenyl methylcarbamoyl 5 fluorouracil, 5. 1 5 oxo 1 cyclopentenyl methylcarbamoyl 5 fluorouracil,

## Description
Derivatives of 5 FluorouracilBackground of the Invention 5 Fluorouracil hereinafter referred to as 5 FU see USP 2,885,396 has been widely used as a potent antitumor in the clinical field. It has, however, a defect of difficulty of oral administration because of its toxicity to digestive organs. Therefore, those compounds which are chemically modified 5 FU have been vigorously studied to reduce toxicity along with maintained favorable activity so as to enable oral administration. For example, l 2 tetrahydrofuryl 5 fluorouracil trade name Futraful Taiho Yakuhin seeJapanese Patent Publication No. 10510 74 etc. are their representatives. Since malignant tumor shows various properties and resistant cell against antitumor may also come into existence, a novel antitumor active substance is continually demanded to make possible oral administration. The compounds according to the present invention are so different from FutrafulC in chemical structure. Therefore that are expected as novel successful antitumor.Summary of the Invention As a result of various studies by the inventors about antitumor active substances, it was found that the 5 FU derivative represented by the following general formula I EMI2.1 wherein, R1 and R2 represent hydrogen atom or lower alkyl group respectively, and n is zero or integer of 1, exhibit a excellent antitumor activity even by oral administration also. The present invention has been accomplished based on the above finding. The above mentioned lower alkyl groups are, for example, alkyl C1 3 groups such as methyl, ethyl, propyl, isopropyl, etc.Detailed Description of the Invention The representative compounds of the present invention are shown as follows 1. 1 4,4 dimethyl 6 oxo 1 cyclohexenylmethylcarbamoyl 5 fluorouracil 2. 1 6 oxo 1 cyclohexenylmethylcarbamyl 5 fluorouracil 3. 1 5 oxo 1 cyclopentenyl methylcarbamoyl 5 fluorouracil A method for producing the compounds according to the present invention represented by the general formula I is described below. A compound of the formula I of the present invention can be easily produced from 5 FU represented by the following general formula II and the compound represented by the general formula III EMI3.1 wherein R1, R2 and n represent the same as the above mentioned, Namely, the compound I according to the present invention can be obtained by reacting 5 FU II with an equivalent mol of the compound III . In practice, 5 FU II may be used in excess compared to the amount of the compound III , in more detail, preferably in 2 to 4 equivalents for reaction.This reaction is carried out in a polar solvent such as acetone, dimethylformamide, dimethylacetamide, dimethylsulfoxide, etc., particularly in a solvent sufficiently dehydrated by a conventional dehydrating agents, and can be completed about from room temperature to 1000C for several hours or days. Moreover, this process is an addition reaction, so may be carried usually under neutral conditions, but yield of the reaction may be sometimes increased by adding a catalytic quantity of a base, in particular, organic bases such as triethylamine, pyridine, etc. The said compound may be purified by conventional method, for example, silica gel column chromatography, and when the target substance crystallizes, it may be recrystalized by a suitable solvent. The compounds of the present invention have very potent antitumor activity. The anti tumor activity of the compound of the present invention was investigated in the following way Experimental Example Antitumor effect to murine leukemia P388 Test compounds 5 FU and compound No.l l 4,4 dimethyl 6 oxo l cyclohexenyl methylcarbamoyl 5 flourouracil Method 1 x 106 leukemia P388 cells per mouse were implanted subcutaneously to female mice CDF1 SLC strain, 18 21 g of weight . The control and test group consisted of 3 and 1 mice respectively. The compound No.l and 5 FU were dissolved in 100 dimethyl sulfoxide respectively to be adjusted to various concentrations. The solution was administered orally to each mouse once daily for 5 consecutive days, starting 24 hours after the implantation.Method of evaluation and its results Average period in days of survival in the group receiving the compound of this invention T and average period in days of survival in the control group C were determined to calculate survival rates T C x 100 . The results are shown inTable below. EMI6.1 tb SEP Dose SEP Survival SEP Rate tb SEP Compound SEP mg kg inj SEP T C SEP x SEP 100 SEP tb SEP 84 SEP 52.5 tb SEP 42 SEP 64.7 tb SEP 21 SEP 115 tb SEP 10.5 SEP 103 tb SEP 5.3 SEP 103 tb SEP 2.7 SEP 101 tb SEP 400 SEP 71.9 tb SEP 200 SEP 122 tb Compound SEP No.1 SEP 100 SEP 151 tb SEP 50 SEP 129 tb SEP 25 SEP 115 tb As is evident from the results, the survival rate of the compound of the present invention is as dominant so that the compound of this invention is expected to be an antitumor. In addition, as compared with 5 FU concerning the effective dose, 5 PU shows 10 to 20 mg kg inj optimum dose, and in intrast, the compound according to the present invention compound No.l does not only permit up to 50 to 200 mg kg of dose, but extends also the range of dose.These facts indicate that the compound of the present invention is less toxic than 5 FU and is, moreover, adjustable of dose, so that it is very safe pharmaceutical. The present invention will be described in detail with reference to the following Examples Example 1. Preparation of 1 4, 4 dimethyl 6 oxo l cyclohexenyl methylcarbamoyl 5 fluorouracil.EMI7.1 160 mg of 5 FU was heated with 330 mg of 4,4dimethyl 6 oxo 1 cyclohexenyl methylisocyanate in 20 ml of anhydrous acetone for 6 days under reflux to cause reaction.The reaction mixture was cooled to room temperature, and then concentrated under reduced pressure. The obtained residue was washed with a small amount of petroleum ether, and the retained raw powder was suspended in 50 ml of chloroform, followed by heating for about 10 minutes under reflux. Soon after that, the hot chloroform solution was filtered through a glass filter, and the obtained filtrate was concentrated under reduced pressure The white powder thus obtained was subjected to silica gel column chromatography with the solution mixture of chloroform methanol 10 1 as eluent, to obtain 249 mg of the target compound in 65 yield. m. p. 191 to 197 C sublimed IR spectrum maxKBR cm 1 330, 3196, 1080, 1756, 1722, 1698, 1673 NMR spectrum CDCl3 1.04 6H,S, EMI8.1 2.31 2H, d, J 4.4Hz,EMI8.2 2.32 2H, S,EMI8.3 4.14 2H, dd, J 5.9, 1.1Hz,EMI8.4 6.87 1H, d.d, J 4.4, 1,1Hz,EMI8.5 8.43 1H, 8.53 lH, 9 .30 1H,EMI8.6 Mass spectrum M Z 309 8C14H16N304F Example 2. Preparation of 1 6 oxo 1 cyclohexenyl methylcarbamoyl 5 fluorouracil.EMI9.1 1.5 equivalents of 5FU were reacted with 350 mg of 6 oxo 1 cyclophenexyl methylisocyanate in a manner similar to Example 1. The resulting reaction mixture was treated with hot chloroform, and then was subjected to silica gel column chromatography with a solution mixture of chloroform methanol 10 1 as an eluent to obtain 404 mg of the target compound in 62 yield.m.p. 180 2000C wet 2800C above decomposed IR spectrum maxKBR cm 1 3330, 3090, 1764, 1720, 1705, 1676, 1664.NMR spectrum i CDC13 2.02 2H, t.t, J 6.0, 6.7Hz,EMI9.2 2.42 2H, d.t, J 4.3, 60Hz,EMI10.1 2,47 2H, t, J 6,7Hz,EMI10.2 4.12 2H, d, d, J l.l, 63Hz,EMI10.3 7,01 1H, t, t, J 1.1, 4.3Hz,EMI10.4 8.29 1H, bs,EMI10.5 8.43 1H, d, J 6,7Hz,EMI10.6 9.31 1H, d, J 6.3Hz,EMI10.7 Mass spectrum M Z 281 C12H12N3O4F Example 3. Prepration of 1 5 oxo 1 cyclopentyl methylcarbamoyl 5 fluorouracil. EMI11.1 1.5 equivalents of 5FU were reacted with 430 mg of 5 oxo l cyclopentenyl methylisocyanate in a manner and procedure described in Examples 1 and 2, and isolation and purification of reaction product were followed by a similar manner to the preceding Examples to obtain 47.7 mg of the target compound in 57 yield. m.p. 175 1850C wet 2400 above decomposed IR spectrum maxKBR cm 1 3290, 3092, 1748, 1730, 1706, 1682 NMR spectrum CDC13 2.47 2H, m, 2.56 2H, m,EMI11.2 4.20 2H, m,EMI11.3 7.52 1H,mEMI11.4 8.44 1H, d, 8.45 1H, bs, 9.36 1H, m,EMI12.1 Mass apectrum M Z 267 C11H10N3O4F