# Pulsed neutron measurements in boreholes.

## Abstract
The thermal neutron decay times of earth formations traversed by a well borehole are measured by

## Claims
1. A method for measuring the thermal neutron decay time of materials in and about a well borehole, comprising

## Description
The present invention relates to in situ measurements of earth formations traversed by a well borehole. More particularly, the invention relates to pulsed neutron irradiation measurement techniques for in situ determination of the thermal neutron capture cross sections of earth formations in the vicinity of a borehole passing therethrough. Pulsed d,t sources used in borehole logging produce neutrons which have energies of 14 Mev. These neutrons, when emitted into the borehole, are then moderated by interaction with the nuclei of the materials in the borehole and the surrounding earth formations as they diffuse therethrough. When the neutron energies have moderated to below about 0.05 electron volts, they come into thermal equilibrium with their environment. After reaching this thermal energy range, the neutrons continue diffusing through the formation and borehole until they are captured by nuclei in the constituent materials. The rate at which a zone of material formation or borehole captures these thermal neutrons or more precisely, the probability of capture is referred to as the macroscopic capture cross section of the zone. The macroscopic capture cross section is, in turn, a result of the combined microscopic capture cross sections of the various constituent elements and materials constituting the zone. The capture cross section of chlorine for thermal neutrons is considerably higher than that of most other elements commonly encountered in earth formations of interest. Accordingly, thermal neutron macroscopic capture cross section measurements can give a good indication of the saline content of the fluids in the zone in question. By combining such information about the saline content of the fluids in the pore spaces of an adjacent earth formation with information about the formation water salinity, porosity measurements, and measurements of formation shaliness, information can be derived which can discriminate oil from salt water filled pore spaces in the vicinity of a well borehole. Since thermal neutrons are absorbed by other materials as well as chlorine, the macroscopic capture cross section is also responsive to borehole conditions and to the lithology of the formation materials. Prior art thermal neutron cross section methods have therefore typically been structured to try to minimize the borehole effects, for example by delaying the measurements after each neutron pulse so that these effects could then be ignored. That is, since borehole moderation and die away is usually faster than formation moderation and die away, the several measurements which are made are usually delyed until most of the borehole component has had sufficient time to decay. However, some residual borehole component relative to the formation component will usually be present, especially if the borehole contains materials which decay slowly and the formation contains material with a high cross section. Another disadvantage of delaying the measurement gates to allow the borehole component to dissipate is the loss of important formation and borehole information during this long waiting period. Count rates are high and statistically important during early portions of the thermal neutron cycle, and such prior art delayed measurement methods fail to utilize this information. Several important improvements in thermal neutron measurements are disclosed in U.S. patent specifications nos. 4,409,481 and 4,424,444, to which reference should be made for further details. In these inventions, at least four, and preferably six, capture gamma ray count rate measurements are made starting immediately after thermalization of the fast neutrons. From these measurements both the borehole thermal neutron lifetime component and the earth formation thermal neutron lifetime component are individually calculated using iterative least squares fitting of the count rate data. Rather than ignoring the borehole component, therefore, it is specifically identified, calculated, and separated from the formation component, substantially improving the accuracy of the formation thermal neutron lifetime measurement. Reference should also be made to the following publications wherein additional aspects of these inventions are discussed Smith, H.D., Jr., Arnold, D.M., and Peelman, H.E., Applications of a New Borehole Corrected Pulsed Neutron Capture Logging System TMD , Paper DD, SPWLA Twenty Fourth Logging Symposium Transactions, June 1983 and Buchanan, J.C., Clearman, D.K., Heidbrink, L.J., and Smith, H.D., Jr., Applications of TMD Pulsed Neutron Logs in Unusual Downhole Logging Environments , Paper KKK, SPWLA Twenty Fifth Logging Symposium Transactions, June 1984. The logging systems disclosed in the above noted 481 and 444 patents are designed to measure Σ As indicated above, the tool measures count rates in each detector in six different time gates after each neutron burst. These gates, which are dead time and background count corrected, span the decay from very near the end of one neutron burst until almost the beginning of the next neutron burst. The first two gates are positioned shortly after the end of the burst and detect both formation and borehole count rates. The last four gates are each progressively wider at longer delay times from the neutron burst, and detect primarily formation events. The last gate Gate 6 is sufficiently delayed from the burst so that a negligible number of counts generally 3 in the gate are generated from captures in the borehole fluid. The six resulting dead time and background corrected count rates in each detector represent points on the composite formation plus borehole decay curve. These count rates are then adaptively filtered over a short vertical interval in the borehole one to several feet, depending upon filtering parameters . The main field computer program then uses these six points along the composite formation borehole decay curve in an iterative least squares technique to separate the composite curve into the borehole and formation decay components. The computer calculates the formation capture cross section from the slope of the formation decay component. In addition, the computer calculates the borehole capture cross section Σ The field computer program also calculates two data quality parameters, Σ In the field, however, there can be large washed out and perhaps cement filled intervals outside the casing. In this environment, there are actually three significant components borehole fluid, cement, and formation in the decay curve. In general, the borehole decay in this case will still be very rapid. However, the borehole decay signal will contain count rate decay information from the borehole fluid, and also from the near borehole just outside the casing. This composite borehole signal will in general be separable from the formation component and from whatever residual cement component is not incorporated in the borehole signal. The remaining formation and residual cement decay rates will usually also be different from one another. However, since the computer program is looking for only one other exponential curve, and not two curves, the program will try to fit just one exponential curve to the composite formation exponential and residual cement components in Gates 3 through 6. Graphically, these formation and cement components usually combine in a concave upwardly shaped curve on a log scale , while the computer estimated single least squares fitted exponential line through the data points will be a straight line. In such cases, the computer usually underestimates the counts in the last gate Gate 6 . This results in a Σ The other data quality parameter, R As will be appreciated from the above, necessarily abbreviated discussions of several of the features of the 481 and 444 neutron logging methods and apparatus, these represent substantial advances over the prior art. Nevertheless, further improvements could be provided. For example, it would be useful to know which of the two data quality parameters, Σ Briefly, the present invention meets the above needs and purposes with a new and improved method and apparatus for pulsed neutron capture measurement of borehole conditions and formation neutron lifetimes. In simultaneously measuring the thermal neutron decay time of materials in and about the well borehole, as in the logging tools and methods described above, the present invention begins by generating, in the well borehole, a relatively short duration discrete burst of fast neutrons, which are then rapidly moderated by interaction with nuclei of the materials in the borehole and surrounding earth formations and slowed down to thermal energy. This creates a thermal neutron population in the borehole and the surrounding earth formations. Next the radiations representative of the thermal neutron population in the borehole and surrounding earth formations are detected in the borehole. These are detected in at least four, and preferably six or more time intervals subsequent to the burst of fast neutrons. Corresponding count signals are then generated which are representative of the thermal neutron population during each of the time intervals. In the preferred embodiment the first two time intervals are chosen to maximize the borehole component radiations. Next, in the preferred embodiment, the count signals are combined by an iterative least squares fitting technique to exponential relationships assumed to exist for the borehole and earth formation components of the thermal neutron decay time. The borehole and formation decay components are thereby simultaneously separated to derive corresponding measurement signals representative of the thermal neutron decay times of the borehole medium and the earth formation medium in the vicinity of the borehole. In any pulsed neutron analysis technique, it can be very useful to determine a relatively simple parameter which is indicative of the neutron decay in the borehole. Therefore, in one embodiment, a measurement indicator representative of the thermal neutron decay time of the borehole medium is also developed by taking the ratio of the counts from the first two time intervals. The decay rate of the shallow thermal neutron population is in general more rapid than the deeper, especially in prospective oil or gas bearing formations of interest. Hence, during such time gates within the first 200µs following the neutron burst, it is possible to observe the count rates capture gamma or thermal neutron when shallow, or borehole region, counts are significant and in many situations dominate the formation counts . These count rates are then used to independently determine a parameter indicative of decay in the near borehole region. More specifically, in this embodiment of the invention the first two time gate measurements are made during the first 200µs after the neutron burst. The ratio of the counts in the first two time gates alone is then taken as an initial borehole Σ Since more time intervals are utilized in the methods of the above noted prior art 481 and 444 patents than necessary to specify the two exponential relationships, and since the borehole earth formation system includes other sub systems such as cement, the least squares fitting will be expected to have residuals from the various count signals. These residuals are therefore utilized to develop quality indicating signals for the corresponding measurement signals. A total residual can be developed for the borehole measurement signal if more than two gates are used to calculate the borehole decay, and another for the earth formation measurement signal calculated from three or more gates . They each provide a measure of how much extraneous signal has gotten into the measurement. This extraneous signal could be the other measurement signal formation in the borehole measurement, or vice versa , or a third signal e.g., cement , or a combination of the interfering signals. The invention also provides for selecting between quality parameters depending upon the salinity of the borehole region materials. A first quality parameter Σ In order that the invention may be more fully understood, reference is made to the accompanying drawings wherein With reference to the drawings, the new and improved apparatus for pulsed neutron capture measurement of borehole conditions and formation neutron lifetimes, and the method therefor according to the present invention, will be described. Referring to Fig. 1, a well logging system in accordance with the concepts of the present invention is illustrated schematically. A well borehole 10, which is filled with a borehole fluid 11, penetrates the earth formations 20 under investigation. A downhole well logging sonde 12 is suspended in the borehole 10 via a conventional armored logging cable 13, in a manner known in the art, such that the sonde 12 may be raised and lowered through the borehole as desired. The well logging cable 13 passes over a sheave wheel 14 at the surface. The sheave wheel is electrically or mechanically coupled, as indicated by dotted line 15, to a well logging recorder 18 which may comprise an optical recorder, or magnetic tape, or both, as known in the art. Recorder 18 is shown making a record on a conventional paper chart 19 having curves 19a, 19b, and 19c, for example, recorded thereon. The record of measurements made by the downhole sonde 12 may thus be recorded as a function of the depth in the borehole of the sonde 12. In the downhole sonde 12, a neutron generator 21 is supplied with high voltage approximately 100 kilovolts by a high voltage power supply 22. Control and telemetry electronics 25 are utilized to supply control signals to the high voltage supply and the neutron generator 21 and to telemeter information measured by the downhole instrument to the surface via the logging cable 13. Longitudinally spaced from the neutron generator 21 are two radiation detectors 23 and 24. Radiation detectors 23 and 24 may comprise, for example, thallium activated sodium iodide crystals which are optically coupled to photomultiplier tubes. The detectors 23 and 24 serve to detect gamma radiation produced in the surrounding formations 20 resulting from the action of the neutron generator 21 in emitting neutrons. A neutron shielding material 28 having a high density matter content or large scattering cross section is interposed between the neutron generator 21 and the dual spaced detectors 23 and 24, in order to prevent direct irradiation of the detectors by neutrons emitted by the neutron generator 21. Shielding 29 may also be interposed between the detectors 23 and 24 if desired. Upon activation of the neutron generator 21, a burst, or pulse, of neutrons of approximately 60 microseconds duration is initiated and emitted into the well borehole 10, borehole fluid 11, and through the steel casing 26 and cement layer 27 surrounding the steel casing, into the earth formations 20 being investigated. The neutron burst is moderated or slowed down by scattering interactions such that the neutrons are all essentially at thermal energy. The thermalized or thermal neutrons then begin capture interactions with the elemental nuclei of constituents of the borehole and of the adjacent cement and earth formations and the pore spaces contained therein. The capture of neutrons by nuclei of the borehole and formation elements and pore spaces produces capture gamma rays which are emitted and impinge upon detectors 23 and 24. A voltage pulse is produced from the respective photomultipliers of detectors 23 and 24 for each gamma ray so detected. These voltage pulses are supplied to the electronics section 25, counted in a digital counter, and are telemetered to the surface via a conductor 16 of the well logging cable 13. At the surface, a surface electronics package 17 detects the telemetered information from the downhole sonde 12 and performs suitable processing, by methods known in the prior art and discussed below, to determine the measured quantities, which are then supplied to the recorder 18 where they are recorded as a function of borehole depth. The thermal neutron capture cross section measurements provided by such pulsed neutron tools are then used in calculating formation water saturation. However, if the formation cross sections which are measured are affected by changes in borehole conditions, then all subsequent calculations will be in error. For example, in fitting a two exponential analytical model to the actual observed six points along the decay curve 50 Fig. 2 , if there are significant non exponential or additional exponential components, such as the residual cement component 55, the two exponential fit to the data cf. the borehole component 58 and earth formation component 60 in Fig. 2 will be perturbed. Since the depth of investigation of pulsed neutron logs is limited to the first foot of the formation and the borehole adjacent to the logging tool, borehole caliper can therefore be important. In badly washed out intervals this first foot may be to a large degree filled with cement, and hence pulsed neutron Σ values can be severely affected by the borehole region. This is especially true, incidentally, with older prior art single exponential pulsed neutron logging systems which are unable to actively remove the effects of the borehole. In general, the borehole fluid component decay is very rapid and will contain count rate decay information from the borehole fluid, and also from the near borehole just outside the casing. This composite borehole signal will in general be separable from the formation component and from whatever residual cement component is not incorporated in the borehole signal, since the relative decay rates in formations and residual cement is much slower. If the cement region is relatively small, then virtually all the cement counts will be combined into the borehole component, and hence a two exponential model will in general be able to isolate effectively the borehole decay from the decay in the formation. If the cement region is large, however, a portion of the cement count rate will not be absorbed into the borehole signal. This residual cement signal will be combined instead with the formation component. If the borehole exponential component is stripped from the remaining formation and residual cement decay components in the two exponential program, as illustrated in Fig. 3, then the remaining count rate decay from the formation and cement will necessarily have to be approximated by the remaining single exponential. In other words, the third component, residual cement, will be lumped in large or washed out borehole intervals with the formation component. The residual cement component will be especially significant if the cement decay is relatively slow, i.e., if low salinity materials are present in the cement and borehole fluid. With the system described in the above noted 481 and 444 patents, there are four points along this composite formation cement decay more than enough to define an exponential curve. Two parameters are required to define an exponential curve initial value and slope . Thus the system is overdefined and can be least squares fitted. In general the four points along the composite formation cement decay in large boreholes will not be on a single exponential decay curve since decay in the residual cement which may or may not be exponential will usually be different from the exponential formation decay. This is illustrated in Figs. 2 4, showing the graphical decay points six points on total decay curve, and four points along the curve with the borehole component removed . The four points in Fig. 4 are not in a straight line log scale hence a least squares fit will not pass through all the points. In general the curve defined by the four points will have a concave upward shape if the residual cement component is exponential or pseudo exponential , and hence a least squares fit line 70 through the data will appear as shown in Fig. 4. The total residual of these data points from the least squares calculation will indicate the amount the points differ or deviate from a perfect fit to a single exponential curve ignoring statistical measurement factors , and hence the residual will indicate the degree of cement interference in the formation decay. The larger the residual, the more the cement effect. Of course it should be noted that any number of points greater than two which are used to define the formation exponential will result in a residual with a similar interpretation. Therefore, in both cases these residuals are an excellent inverse indication of the quality of the corresponding cross section measurement. The Σ In salty boreholes, on the other hand, where the fluid in the borehole has a high salt content and there is perhaps a high salt content in the cement as well , R R In any pulsed neutron analysis technique, it can be very useful to determine a relatively simple parameter which is indicative of the neutron decay in the borehole region. As discussed earlier, following a burst of high energy neutrons from a pulsed neutron source, a thermal neutron population is generated both in the vicinity of the borehole and out in the formation. The decay rate of shallow events is in general more rapid than of the deeper events, especially in prospective oil or gas bearing formations of interest. Hence it should be possible, especially at relatively short spaced detector positions where the borehole relative to the formation signal is maximized though possible at all spacings , to observe the count rates capture gamma or thermal neutron in time gates within the expected time interval 0 200µs following the burst when shallow, or borehole region, counts are significant, and in fact in many situations may dominate the formation counts. These count rates can then be independently used to determine a parameter indicative of decay in the near borehole region. The prior art technique for doing this, discussed above, is to unfold the shallow borehole and deep formation count rate signals using the technique described in the above noted 444 patent. This technique assumes that both components decay exponentially, and that the borehole region component has the more rapid decay constant. However, as taught by the present invention, another technique to measure the shallow, near borehole signal is to derive it directly from the count rate decay during an early first 200µs or less time interval after the neutron bursts, when the borehole region count rates are appreciable relative to formation counts. This early time shape distribution could assume pure exponential decay in the borehole region, or it could be assumed that the decay is composed of an exponential plus one or more terms experimentally or theoretical derived to account for neutron diffusion in the borehole region and or net neutron migration into and out of the borehole region. In this embodiment of the invention, the first two time gate measurements are made during the first 200µs after the neutron burst. The ratio of the counts in the first two time gates alone is then taken as an initial borehole Σ As may be seen, therefore, the present invention has numerous advantages. It furnishes any of several very useful quality indicators, along with appropriate criteria for selecting which to use. It furnishes a particularly useful indicator for the borehole capture cross section Σ While the methods and forms of apparatus herein described constitute preferred embodiments of this invention, it is to be understood that the invention is not limited to these precise methods and forms of apparatus.