# Polymer life enhancement in oxyanion catalyzed polymerization.

## Abstract
The duration of livingness in group transfer polymerization with oxyanion catalysts is enhanced by the presence of agents such as acetonitrile or silylated acetonitrile, resulting in higher molecular weight and or lower polydispersity in the resulting polymers.

## Claims
1. Process of preparing a living polymer comprising contacting under polymerization conditions at least one polar acrylic type alpha olefinic monomer with i a tetracoordinate organosilicon, organotin, or organogermanium polymerization initiator having at least one initiating site, ii a catalyst which is a salt comprising an oxyanion whose conjugate acid has a pKa DMSO of about 5 to about 24, and a suitable cation, characterized by also contacting with iii a polymerization life enhancement agent which enhances the duration of livingness of the polymerization by increasing the proportion of polymerization events to termination events.

## Description
This invention relates to a process for polymerizing polar o olefinic monomers to living polymers and to the living polymers produced by such a process. The technology known as group transfer polymerization is described in U.S. Patents 4,417,034 Webster and 4,414,372 Farnham and Sogah, both granted in 1983 and European Patent Application No. 82303405.3. The former claims living polymers and their preparation from acrylic type or maleimide monomers using defined organosilicon, tin, or germanium initiators and a catalyst which is a source of fluoride, cyanide or azide ions or a suitable Lewis acid. The latter is similar but uses as a co catalyst a source of bifluoride ions. Both disclose various suitable solvents for the catalyst including acetonitrile used in amounts including 19 moles per mole of catalyst and more, and acetonitrile is used in larger quantities as a general solvent for the polymerization. By living polymer is meant a polymer of the invention which contains at least one active terminal group and is capable of polymerizing further in the presence of monomer s and co catalyst. The words living and livingness are used herein in quotation marks to distinguish from any biological conotations. In attempts to use group transfer polymerization to better advantage, it would be desirable to find ways to increase or enhance the duration of the livingness of the polymerization. This would involve somehow decreasing the proportion of termination to further polymerization events. This could lead to higher molecular weight, lower polydispersity, and better control and predictability of molecular weight. Related applications include Nos. 82303405.3, 84302261.7, 84307669.6, 85201447.1, and 85308668.4. Also, the European Application filed herewith corresponding to U.S. application Ser. No. 707,193, filed March 1, 1985, discloses and claims the use of certain types of oxyanion catalyst in group transfer polymerization. The disclosures of the above mentioned patents and applications are hereby incorporated by reference. The present invention provides a process of preparing a living polymer comprising contacting under polymerization conditions at least one polar monomer with i a polymerization initiator compound comprising a tetracoordinate metal selected from Si, Ge and Sn having at least one activating substituent or activating diradical attached thereto and optionally having one or more substituents that are inert under polymerizing conditions, ii a catalyst which is a salt comprising an oxyanion including monooxyanion and or bioxyanion whose conjugate acid has a pKa DMSO of about 5 to about 24, and a suitable cation, and iii a polymerization life enhancement agent which moderates or retards the availability of said catalyst during polymerization so as to enhance the duration of livingness of the polymerization by increasing the proportion of polymerization events to termination events. Preferably, the enhancement agent is selected from the group consisting of acetonitrile and silylated acetonitriles containing 1 3 equivalents of R₃Si groups, per mole of acetonitrile, wherein R is hydrocarbyl of up to 20 carbon atoms, optionally containing one or more ether oxygen atoms within aliphatic segments thereof, and optionally containing one or more functional substituents that are unreactive under polymerizing conditions. The preferred concentration of the enhancement agent is in the range of about 0.1 1000 moles per mole of catalyst, more preferably 1 200, sometimes optionally 5 25. The preferred congugate acid of the oxyanion catalyst has a pKa DMSO of about 6 21, more preferably 8 18. While the mechanism or mechanisms operating in enhancing the duration of livingness in group transfer polymerization by means of the present invention are not completely known or fully understood, and applicants do not wish to be bound by any theory, it can be hypothesized that the enhancement agent in some way complexes, associates with, or otherwise lowers the availability of the catalyst, perhaps gradually releasing it to keep the polymerization alive longer. The fact that silylated acetonitrile has a similar effect is interesting, especially when the initiator itself is an organic silylated compound. Either acetonitrile itself of silylated aceto nitrile can promote longevity in these polymerizations. Possibly the effect is to lower the activity of the catalyst, thereby reducing the proportion of catalyst activated living ends resulting in a shift towards and increased ratio of polymerization to termination rates. In the process of the invention, the polymer produced is living in that the polymerization is characterized by the presence, in the growing and in the grown polymer, of a moiety containing the aforesaid metal at living ends and the activating substituent or diradical, or a tautomer thereof, at nonliving ends of the polymer. Monomers which are useful herein are of the formula CH₂ C Y X wherein X is CN, CH CHC O X or C O X Y is H, CH₃, CN or CO₂R, provided, however, when X is CH CHC O X , Y is H or CH₃ X is OSi R¹ ₃, R, OR or NR R each R¹, independently, is H or a hydrocarbyl radical which is an aliphatic, alicyclic, aromatic or mixed aliphatic aromatic radical containing up to 20 carbon atoms, provided that at least one R¹ group is not H R is a hydrocarbyl radical which is an aliphatic, alicyclic, aromatic or mixed aliphatic aromatic radical containing up to 20 carbon atoms, or a polymeric radical containing at least 20 carbon atoms, any of said radicals optionally containing one or more ether oxygen atoms within aliphatic segments thereof, optionally containing one or more functional substituents that are unreactive under polymerizing conditions, and optionally containing one or more reactive substituents of the formula Z O C C Y¹ CH₂ wherein Y¹ is H or CH₃ and Z is O or NR and each of R and R is independently selected from C₁₄ alkyl. The initiator used in the polymerization of this invention is a silicon containing initiator of U.S. Patents 4,414,372, 4,524,196, 4,417,034 and 4,508,880 supra, and copending applications Nos. 82303405.3, 84302261.7, 84307669.6, 85201447.1, and 85308668.4. Initiators which are preferred for use herein are of the formula selected from R¹ ₃MZ, R¹ ₂M Z¹ ₂ and O M R¹ ₂X¹ ₂ wherein R¹ is as defined above Z is an activating substituent selected from the group consisting of By conjugate acid is meant the acid formed by protonating the catalytic oxyanion for example, the conjugate acid of acetate anion is acetic acid, and the biacetate anion is acetic acid dimer. By pKa DMSO of the conjugate acid is meant the negative logarithm of the acidity constant of the conjugate acid, measured in dimethylsulfoxide DMSO at 25 C. Methods for measuring pKa values of various acidic compounds, including oxyacids, are abundantly described in the literature, for example, by F. G. Bordwell et al., J. Org. Chem., Preferably the silylated acetonitriles used in the invention are made by reacting acetonitrile with an organosilicon compound of the formula R₃Si X wherein X is an appropriate leaving group such as halogen. R can be hydrocarbyl of up to 20 carbon atoms, optionally containing one or more ether oxygen atoms within aliphatic segments thereof, and optionally containing one or more functional substituents that are unreactive under polymerizing conditions preferably it is a C1 4 alkyl group, most preferably methyl. In the following examples, the molecular weights of the polymer products A reaction vessel at room temperature was charged with 90 93 g of glyme and approximately 1 g of 1 methoxy 2 methyl 1 propenyl oxy trimethylsilane MTS initiator. Fifty µL of catalyst solution 1M was then injected into the reactor. Additional glyme and catalyst feed 1 , and MMA feed 2 , were fed into the reactor over 80 min and 60 min periods, respectively, starting concurrently. Temperature, which was monitored at 5 min intervals, indicated exothermic reaction in all cases. After 90 min, 2 mL of methanol was added to quench living polymer. Product polymer, after conventional work up, was analyzed by GPC to determine molecular weight. Conversion to polymer was calculated based on the solids content of the final polymerization mixture after quenching. Data and results are given in Table 1. To a 100 mL round bottom flask containing a stirred solution of 30 mL of tetrahydrofuran and 0.20 mL 1.0 mmol of 1 methoxy 2 methyl 1 propenyl oxy trimethylsilane MTS was added various amounts of agent see Table 1 , followed by 0.02 mmol of tetrabutylammonium oxyanion catalyst dissolved in a solvent in a concentration ranging from 0.28 to 0.55 molar . After 5 min, 5.0 mL 46.7 mmol of methyl methacrylate was added dropwise at a rate of 1.0 mL min. The reaction mixture exothermed. Exactly one h from the time at which the peak temperature was observed, a 0.5 mL sample of polymer solution A was withdrawn, after which 5.0 mL 46.7 mmol of methyl methacrylate was added at a rate of 1.0 mL min. A similar, but usually slightly lower, maximum temperature accompanied the resulting exotherm. One h. from the maximum exotherm temperature, a second 0.5 mL sample of polymer B was withdrawn and a third 5.0 mL 46.7 mmol of methyl methacrylate was added at 1.0 mL min. The third 0.5 mL sample of polymer C was withdrawn either one h from the peak exotherm temperature or 16 h later the next morning . A fourth 5.0 mL 46.7 mmol of methyl methacrylate was added all at once after the 16 h wait. If no exotherm followed this addition, an acetonitrile solution of 0.01 mmol of the oxyanion catalyst was added and the total polymer solution was quenched with methanol after an addition two h. The polymer was precipitated from hexane, dried at 80 20 mm and a final polymer sample F was taken. The four polymer samples were then analyzed by GPC. Catalysts and agents employed and the results obtained are given in Table 2. The The examples and comparative tests demonstrate improvements in terms of increased molecular weight and lower polydispersity from use of the invention, particularly acetonitrile and silylated acetonitrile used as polymerization life enhancers. These processes can be used to produce superior polymers by group transfer polymerization for the uses disclosed in the patents and applications incorporated herein by reference.