# AVERMECTIN BIOCONVERSION PRODUCTS

## Claims
Verbindung der Formel

## Description
Avermectin compounds are known antiparasitic agents of considerable activity. The basic material products are described in U.S. Patent US A 4,310,519. The 22,23 dihydro derivatives are disclosed in U.S. Patent US A 4,199,569. The monosaccharide and aglycone derivatives are disclosed in U.S. Patent US A 4,206,205. The 13 deoxy avermectin compounds are disclosed in Re 32034 and Re 32006. The following European patent specifications also disclose various avermectin compounds EP A 0 001 689, EP A 0 002 615, EP A 0 074 758 and EP A 0 115 930. These compounds are represented by the following formula in which the variables are as defined below In EP A 0 001 689, R₂₅ is isopropyl or sec butyl, the 22 23 linkage is saturated, R₂₃ is hydrogen, R₄ is methyl, R₅ is methoxy, hydroxy or alkanoylxy and R₁₃ is R₃O where R₃ is hydrogen lower alkanoyl α L oleandrosyl 4 Lower alkanoyl α L oleandrosyl 4 α L oleandrosyl α L oelandrosyl or 4 lower alkanoyl 4 α L oleandrosyl α L oleandrosyl. In EP A 0 002 615, R₂₅ is In EP A 0 074 758, R₂₅ is methyl, ethyl, isopropyl or sec butyl the 22 23 linkage is a saturated or ethylenically unsaturated linkage, R₂₃ is present only when the 22 23 linkage is saturated and is hydroxy, oxo, or a second hydrogen atom on the 23 carbon, R₄ is CH₂OR where R is hydrogen, acetyl, benzoyl, pyridinylcarbonyl, pyrrolylcarbonyl, CO CH₂ In EP A 0 115 930, R₂₅ is as in EP A 0 074 758 the 22 23 linkage is a saturated or ethylenically unsaturated linkage, R₂₃ is present only when the 22 23 linkage is saturated and is hydrogen, hydroxy, oxo, lower alkanoyloxy or OR R⁴ is methyl or CH₂ OR R⁵ is hydroxy, methoxy, lower alkanoyloxy or OR and R₁₃ is a group as defined for R₁₃ in EP A 0 001 689 or is a hydrogen atom, OR, 4 OR α L oleandrosyloxy or 4 OR 4 α L oleandrosyl α L oleandrosyloxy, and R is one of certain phosphate ester residues, at least one such residue being present in the molecule. The invention is concerned with the bioconversion of avermectin compounds into antiparasitic hydroxy adducts. In accordance with this invention, novel substances are prepared by growing under controlled conditions a strain of microorganism identified as The compounds of the present invention are produced during the aerobic fermentation of suitable aqueous nutrient media under conditions described hereinafter, with a producing strain of Such nutrient media contain sources of carbon and nitrogen assimilable by the microorganism and generally low levels of inorganic salts. In addition, the fermentation media may contain traces of metals necessary for the growth of the microorganisms, and production of the desired compound. These are usually present in sufficient concentrations in the complex sources of carbon and nitrogen, which may be used as nutrient sources, but can, of course, be added separately to the medium if desired. In general, carbohydrates such as sugars, for example dextrose, sucrose, maltose, lactose, dextran and cerelose, corn meal, oat flour and starches are suitable sources of assimilable carbon in the nutrient media. The exact quantity of the carbon source utilized in the medium will depend, in part, upon the other ingredients in the medium, but it is usually found that an amount of carbohydrate from 1 to 10 g l in the medium is satisfactory. These carbon sources can be used individually or several such carbon sources may be combined in the same medium. Various nitrogen sources such as yeast hydrolysates, yeast autolysates, yeast cells, tomato paste, corn meal, oat flour, soybean meal, casein hydrolysates, yeast extracts, corn steep liquors, distillers solubles, cottonseed meal and meat extract are readily assimilable by Among the nutrient inorganic salts that can be incorporated in the culture media are the customary salts capable of yielding ions such as sodium, potassium, magnesium, ammonium, calcium, phosphate, sulfate, chloride and carbonate. Also included are trace metals such as cobalt and manganese. It should be noted that the media described below and in the Examples are merely illustrative and not intended to be limiting. The following are Examples of media suitable for growing strains of The fermentation using Small scale fermentations are conveniently carried out by placing suitable quantities of nutrient medium in a flask by known sterile techniques, inoculating the flask with either spores of vegetative cellular growth of The separation from the whole fermentation broth of the novel compounds and their recovery is carried out by solvent extraction and application of chromatographic fractionations with various chromatographic techniques and solvent systems. The compounds of the invention are only slightly soluble in water, but are soluble in organic solvents. This property may be conveniently used to recover the compounds from the fermentation broth. Thus, in one recovery method, the whole fermentation broth is combined with an approximately equal volume of an organic solvent. While any organic solvent may be used, it is preferable to use a water immiscible solvent such as ethyl acetate, methylene chloride or chloroform. Generally several extractions are desirable to achieve maximum recovery. The solvent removes the desired compound as well as other substances lacking the antiparasitic activity of the compound of the invention. If the solvent is water immiscible, the layers are separated and the organic solvent is evaporated under reduced pressure. The residue is placed onto a chromatography column preferably containing silica gel. The column retains the desired products and some impurities, but lets many of the impurities, particularly the nonpolar impurities, pass through. The column is washed with a moderately polar organic solvent such as methylene chloride or chloroform to remove further impurities, and is then washed with a mixture of methylene chloride or chloroform and an organic solvent of which acetone, methanol, and ethanol are preferred. The solvent is evaporated and the residue further chromatographed, e.g. by column chromatography, thin layer chromatography, preparative thin layer chromatography or high pressure liquid chromatography, with a chromatographic medium such as silica gel, aluminium oxide, an ion exchange resin, or a dextran gel with various solvents and combinations of solvents as the eluent. Thin layer, high pressure liquid, and preparative thin layer chromatography may be used to detect and isolate the desired compound. The use of the foregoing and other known techniques will afford purified compositions containing the compound of the invention. The presence of the desired compound is determined by analysing the various chromatographic fractions for biological activity or physico chemical characteristics. The formulae of the compound have been determined by detailed analysis of the various spectral characteristics of the compounds, in particular their nuclear magnetic resonance, mass, ultraviolet and infrared spectra. The following data characterize six bioconversion products from 22,23 dihydro avermectin B1a aglycone which were isolated from Low resolution mass spectra were recorded on a Finnigan MAT212 mass spectrometer in the electron impact mode EI, 90eV . Exact mass measurements were made on the same instrument at high resolution by the peak matching method using perfluorokerosene PFK as internal standard. In each case, the molecular ion was clearly observed and the following HR MS values were obtained A true copy of the spectrum of each compound is attached hereto as Figures 1 6. The spectra were recorded in CDCl₃ at ambient temperature on Varian SC 300 and XL 400 NMR spectrometers. Chemical shifts are shown in ppm relative to internal tetramethylsilane at zero ppm. On the basis of the above and other evidence the assigned structures are shown below structures wherein R₁, R₂, R₃, R₄, R₅ and R₆ each may be hydrogen or hydroxy such that only one of such groups is hydroxy at any one time, as is shown in the following table. It is also recognized that additional substrates may be employed in the fermentation of In one such example 13 deoxy 22,23 dihydro avermectin B1a aglycone was used as the substrate and twelve products were recovered. Four of the products were of the same structure as compounds 1, 4, 5, and 6 above, however, the 13 position hydroxy is inverted from the original avermectin substrate. This inversion is identified as epi hydroxy . These hydroxy and dihydroxy compounds are identified in the following structural formula and table wherein R₁, R₂, R₃, R₄, R₅, R₆, R₇ and R₈ are as identified in the following table High resolution mass spectrometry data for the foregoing twelve compounds are as follows Figures 7 to 18 represent the nuclear magnetic resonance spectra for Structures 7 to 18 respectively. Using 13 deoxy 22,23 dihydro avermectin B1b aglycone as the substrate produced nine hydroxylated products of the following structure wherein R₁, R₂, R₃, R₄, R₅, R₆, R₇ and R₈ have the following meanings High resolution mass spectrometry data for the foregoing nine compounds are as follows Figures 19 to 27 represent the nuclear magnetic resonance spectra for Structures 19 to 27 respectively. The novel compounds of this invention have significant parasiticidal activity as anthelmintics, insecticides and acaricides, in human and animal health and in agriculture. The disease or group of diseases described generally as helminthiasis is due to infection of an animal host with parasitic worms known as helminths. Helminthiasis is a prevalent and serious economic problem in domesticated animals such as swine, sheep, horses, cattle, goats, dogs, cats and poultry. Among the helminths, the group of worms described as nematodes causes widespread and often times serious infection in various species of animals. The most common genera of nematodes infecting the animals referred to above are Haemonchus, Trichostrongylus, Ostertagia, Nematodirus, Cooperia, Ascaris, Bunostomum, Oesophagostomum, Chabertia, Trichuris, Strongylus, Trichonema, Dictyocaulus, Capillaria, Heterakis, Toxocara, Ascaridia, Oxyuris, Ancylostoma, Uncinaria, Toxascaris and Parascaris. Certain of these, such as Nematodirus, Cooperia, and Oesophagostomum attack primarily the intestinal tract while others, such as Haemonchus and Ostertagia, are more prevalent in the stomach while others such as Dictyocaulus are found in the lungs. Still other parasites may be located in other tissues and organs of the body such as the heart and blood vessels and subcutaneous and lymphatic tissue. The parasitic infections known as helminthiases lead to anemia, malnutrition, weakness, weight loss, severe damage to the walls of the intestinal tract and other tissues and organs and, if left untreated, may result in death of the infected host. The compounds of this invention have unexpectedly high activity against these parasites, and in addition are also active against Dirofilaria in dogs, Nematospiroides, Syphacia, Aspiculuris in rodents, arthropod ectoparasites of animals and birds such as ticks, mites, lice, fleas, blowfly, in sheep Lucilia sp., biting insects and such migrating dipterous larvae as Hypoderma sp. in cattle, Gastrophilus in horses, and Cuterebra sp. in rodents. The compounds are also useful against parasites which infect humans. The most common genera of parasites of the gastro intestinal tract of parasites of man are Ancylostoma, Necator, Ascaris, Strongyloides, Trichinella, Capillaria, Trichuris, and Enterobius. Other medically important genera of parasites which are found in the blood or other tissues and organs outside the gastro intestinal tract are the filarial worms such as Wuchereria, Brugia, Onchocerca and Loa, Dracunculus and extra intestinal stages of the intestinal worms Strongyloides and Trichinella. The compounds are also of value against arthropods parasitizing man, biting insects and other dipterous pests causing annoyance to man. The compounds are also active against household pests such as the cockroach, Blatella sp., clothes moth, Tineola sp., carpet beetle, Attagenus sp. and the housefly The compounds are also useful against insect pests of stored grains such as Tribolium sp., Tenebrio sp. and of agricultural plants such as spider mites, Tetranychus sp. , aphids, Acyrthiosiphon migratory orthopterans such as locusts and immature stages of insects living on plant tissue. The compounds are useful as a nematocide for the control of soil nematodes and plant parasites such as Meloidogyne spp. which may be of importance in agriculture. These compounds may be administered orally in a unit dosage form such as a capsule, bolus or tablet, or as a liquid drench where used as an anthelmintic in mammals. The drench is normally a solution, suspension or dispersion of the active ingredient usually in water together with a suspending agent such as bentonite and a wetting agent or like excipient. Generally, the drenches also contain an antifoaming agent. Drench formulations generally contain from about 0.001 to 0.5 by weight of the active compound. Preferred drench formulations may contain from 0.01 to 0.1 by weight. The capsules and boluses comprise the active ingredient admixed with a carrier vehicle such as starch, talc, magnesium stearate, or dicalcium phosphate. Where it is desired to administer the instant compounds in a dry, solid unit dosage form, capsules, boluses or tablets containing the desired amount of active compound are usual. These dosage forms are prepared by intimately and uniformly mixing the active ingredient with suitable finely divided diluents, fillers, disintegrating agents and or binders such as starch, lactose, talc, magnesium stearate or vegetable gums. Such unit dosage formulations may be varied widely with respect to their total weight and constant of the antiparasitic agent depending upon factors such as the type of host animal to be treated, the severity and type of infection and the weight of the host. When the active compound is to be administered via an animal feedstuff, it is intimately dispersed in the feed or used as a top dressing or in the form of pellets which may then be added to the finished feed or optionally fed separately. Alternatively, the antiparasitic compounds of our invention may be administered to animals parenterally, for example, by intraruminal, intramuscular, intratracheal, or subcutaneous injection in which event the active ingredient is dissolved or dispersed in a liquid carrier vehicle. For parenteral administration, the active material is suitably admixed with an acceptable vehicle, preferably of the vegetable oil variety such as peanut oil or cotton seed oil. Other parenteral vehicles such as organic preparation using solketal, glycerol, formal and aqueous parenteral formulations are also used. The active compound or compounds are dissolved or suspended in the parenteral formulation for administration such formulations generally contain from 0.005 to 5 by weight of the active compound. Although the antiparasitic agents of this invention find their primary use in the treatment and or prevention and treatment of diseases caused by other parasites, for example, arthropod parasites such as ticks, lice, fleas, mites and other biting insects in domesticated animals and poultry. They are also effective in treatment of parasitic diseases that occur in other animals including humans. The optimum amount to be employed for best results will, of course, depend upon the particular compound, the species of animal to be treated and the type and severity of parasitic infection or infestation. Generally, good results are obtained with our novel compounds by the oral administration of from about 0.001 to 10 mg per kg of animal body weight, such total dose being given at one time or in divided doses over a relatively short period of time such as 1 5 days. With the preferred compounds of the invention, excellent control of such parasites is obtained in animals by administering from about 0.025 to 0.5 mg per kg of body weight in a single dose. Repeat treatments are given as required to combat re infections and are dependent upon the species of parasite and the husbandry techniques being employed. The techniques for administering these materials to animals are known to those skilled in the veterinary field. When the compounds described herein are administered as a component of the feed of the animals, or dissolved or suspended in the drinking water, compositions are provided in which the active compound or compounds are intimately dispersed in an inert carrier or diluent. By inert carrier is meant one that will not react with the antiparasitic agent and one that may be administered safely to animals. Preferably, a carrier for feed administration is one that is, or may be, an ingredient of the animal ration. Suitable compositions include feed premixes or supplements in which the active ingredient is present in relatively large amounts and which are suitable for direct feeding to the animal or for addition to the feed either directly or after an intermediate dilution or blending step. Typical carriers or diluents suitable for such compositions include, for example, distillers dried grains, corn meal, citrus meal, fermentation residues, ground oyster shells, wheat shorts, molasses solubles, corn cob meal, edible bean mill feed, soya grits and crushed limestone. The active compounds are intimately dispersed throughout the carrier by methods such as grinding, stirring, milling or tumbling. Compositions containing from about 0.005 to 2.0 by weight of the active compound are particularly suitable as feed premixes. Feed supplements, which are fed directly to the animal, contain from about 0.0002 to 0.3 by weight of the active compounds. Such supplements are added to the animal feed in an amount to give the finished feed the concentration of active compound desired for the treatment and control of parasitic diseases. Although the desired concentration of active compound will vary depending upon the factors previously mentioned as well as upon the particular compound employed, the compounds of this invention are usually fed at concentrations of between 0.00001 to 0.002 in the feed in order to achieve the desired antiparasitic result. In using the compounds of this invention, the individual components may be isolated and purified and used in that form. Alternatively, mixtures more of the individual components may be used. It is not necessary to completely separate the various compounds obtained from the purification of the fermentation broth. Generally, there is obtained a mixture containing two or more of the compounds, but having other unrelated compounds excluded therefrom, and such mixture may be used for the prevention and treatment of parasitic diseases as described herein. Such a mixture generally will contain unequal proportions of the compounds however, all of the compounds have substantial activity and the antiparasitic activity of the mixture can be accurately determined. In addition, where the compounds are to be added to an animal s feed, it is possible to utilize the dried mycelial cake from the fermentation broth. The mycelia contain a preponderance of the activity and since the level of the activity of the mycelia can be determined, it can be added directly to the animal s feed. The compounds of this invention are also useful in combating agricultural pests that inflict damage upon crops while they are growing or while in storage. The compounds are applied using known techniques as sprays, dusts, and emulsions, to the growing or stored crops to effect protection from such agricultural pests. The anthelmintic activity of the instant compounds may be determined by orally administering via the feed, a sample of the individual compound, a mixture of such compounds, a concentrated extract, and the like to a mouse which had been infected 3 days earlier with a gastrointestinal parasite. At 11, 12 and 13 days after the initiation of the medication, the feces of the mouse are examined for eggs, and one the next day the mouse is sacrificed and the number of worms present in the proximal portion of the small intestine are determined. An active compound is observed when there is a significant reduction of egg and worm counts when compared to infected, unmedicated controls. The following examples are being provided in order that the instant invention may be more fully understood. The following illustrative examples are provided in order that the invention may be more fully understood. A lypophile tube of This seed was then used to inoculate slants medium B and transformation flasks medium C . The substrate was added post sterilization and prior to inoculation. Methanol was used to solubilize the substrate for filter sterilization and addition. The transformation flasks 40 ml medium C in 250 ml 3 baffle Erlenmeyer flask were incubated for 7 days with agitation 220 rpm at 27 C. Following incubation, the whole broths were extracted as follows Sample 4 of Example 1B, the methylene chloride fraction, was taken up in 700 mcl of 75 25 methanol water and subjected to preparative chromatography on a DuPont Zorbax ODS reverse phase C₁₈ column 2.1 x 25 cm at room temperature using a solvent system of 75 25 methanol water at a flow rate of 10 ml minutes. The effluent stream was monitored at 243 nm using an LDC Spectro Monitor II with a 1 mm path length cell at a setting of 0.64 AUFS. Twenty one fractions were collected. Selected fractions were concentrated to dryness. These fractions were quantitated by their ultra violet absorption at 243 nm using the following method. The total amount per sample was calculated to be as follows Sample 6 of Example 1C was taken up in 1 ml of 75 25 methanol water. The solution was filtered to remove insolubles. The clear filtrate was labeled Sample 1. The insolubles were taken up in 1 ml of methanol and labelled Sample 2. HPLC assay of Sample 2 indicated a loss of approximately six percent of each of the desired compounds. Sample 1 was subjected to preparative chromatography on a DuPont Zorbax ODS reverse phase C₁₈ column 2.1 x 25 cm at room temperature using a solvent system of 75 25 methanol water at a flow rate of 10 ml minute. The effluent stream was monitored at 243 nm using an LDC Spectro Monitor II with a 1 mm path length cell at a setting of 1.28 AUFS. Fifty two fractions were collected. Selected fractions were concentrated to dryness. Fraction number 13 was labelled Sample 3 and used in Example 4. Fraction numbers 45 to 47 were combined affording Compound 1. The fractions were quantitated by their ultra violet absorption at 243 nm using the following method. The total amount of compound in the sample was calculated to be 0.415 mg of Compound 1 12a hydroxy 22,23 dihydro avermectin B1a aglycone . Sample 3 of Example 3 was concentrated to dryness and taken up in 200 mcl of 70 30 methanol water and subjected to preparative HPLC chromatography on a DuPont Zorbax ODS reverse phase C₁₈ column 0.94 x 25 cm at room temperature using a solvent system of 70 30 methanol water at a flow rate of 2 ml minute. The effluent stream was monitored at 243 nm using an LDC Spectro Monitor II with a 1 mm path length cell at a setting of 0.64 AUFS. Eleven fractions were collected. Fraction number 10 was concentrated to dryness. The fraction was quantitated by the ultra violet absorption specified in Example 3 and contained 0.244 mg of Compound 2 24 hydroxy 22,23 dihydro avermectin B1a aglycone . The cyclohexane extract, Specific Example 5B, sample 9, was concentrated to dryness and the residue taken up in 1 ml of methylene chloride and chromatographed on a dry packed E. Merck silica gel 60 0.04 to 0.063 mm particle size column of approximately 1 ml in volume. The chromatography was carried out using a stepwise gradient as follows 1 3 ml methylene chloride, 2 5 ml 90 10 v v methylene chloride ethyl acetate, 3 5 ml 50 50 v v methylene chloride ethyl acetate, and 4 5 ml 50 50 v v methylene chloride methanol. Twenty fractions of approximately 1 ml each were collected. Aliquot portions of the fractions were analysed by reverse phase C₁₈ HPLC chromatography on a DuPont Zorbax ODS column 4.6 mm X 25 cm at room temperature. A solvent system of 85 15 v v methanol water at a flow rate of 1 ml minute was used and the effluent monitored at 243 nm 0.1 AUFS using an L.D.C. Spectro Monitor III. Fractions 10 thru 17 contained the compounds of interest with HPLC retention times of 12.6 to 18.2 minutes. Fractions 10 to 17 were combined and concentrated to dryness. The residue was labelled A. The residue A from Example 6 was taken up in 500 mcl of 75 25 v v methanol water and filtered. The filtrate was subjected to preparative HPLC chromatography on a DuPont Zorbax ODS C₁₈ column 0.94 X 25 cm at room temperature. The chromatography was carried out using the following gradient generated by a DuPont 8800 Gradient Controller, at a flow rate of 4 ml minute. Gradient 75 25 methanol water for 75 minutes then a linear gradient to 85 15 methanol water over five minutes, hold at 85 15 for 20 minutes then a linear gradient to 100 methanol over five minutes, hold at 100 methanol for 15 minutes. The effluent stream was monitored at 243 nm, 0.32 AUFS using an L.D.C. Spectro Monitor II with a 1 mm path length cell. Eleven fractions were collected based on the ultra violet trace. Fractions 7 and 10 were each concentrated to dryness. The residue from fraction No. 7 was taken up in 5 ml of methanol and labelled B. The residue from fraction No. 10 was also taken up in 5 ml of methanol and labelled C. An ultra violet absorbance assay was performed on each sample and the following calculation used to determine total concentration of sample. The methylene chloride extract, Specific Example 5B, sample 10, was concentrated to dryness and the residue taken up in 1 ml of 75 25 v v methanol water and subjected to preparative HPLC chromatography on a DuPont Zorbax ODS C₁₈ column 2.1 X 25 cm at room temperature. The chromatography was carried out using the following gradient generated by a DuPont 8800 Gradient Controller at a flow rate of 10 ml minute. Gradient 75 25 methanol water for 69 minutes, then a linear gradient to 85 15 methanol water over 5 minutes, hold at 85 15 for 20 minutes, then a linear gradient to 100 methanol over 5 minutes, hold at 100 methanol for 21 minutes. The effluent stream was monitored at 243 nm 0.32 AUFS using an L.D.C. Spectro Monitor II with a 1 mm path length cell. Sixty five fractions were collected based on the ultra violet trace. The following fractions were selected Total concentration of samples I, J and K were calculated as in Example 7. Sample D from Example 8 was concentrated to dryness. The residue was taken up in 200 mcl of methanol and subjected to preparative HPLC chromatography on a DuPont Zorbax ODS C₁₈ 0.94 X 25 cm column at room temperature. The chromatography was carried out using an isocratic solvent system of 65 35 v v methanol water at a flow rate of 2 ml minute. The effluent stream was monitored at 243 nm 0.64 AUFS using an L.D.C. Spectro Monitor II with a 1 mm path length cell. Eighteen fractions were collected based on the ultra violet trace. The following fractions were selected. Fractions 9 and 10 were combined and labelled sample L. Fractions 15 and 16 were combined and labelled M. The total concentrations of samples L and M were calculated as in Example 7. Sample E from Example 8 was concentrated to dryness. The residue was taken up in 200 mcl of methanol and subjected to preparative HPLC chromatography on a DuPont Zorbax ODS C₁₈ column 0.94 X 25 cm at room temperature. The chromatography was carried out using an isocratic solvent system of 75 25 v v methanol water at a flow rate of 4 ml minute. The effluent stream was monitored at 243 nm 0.64 AUFS using an L.D.C. Spectro Monitor II with a 1 mm path length cell. Fourteen fractions were collected based on the ultra violet trace. Fraction 6 was selected and labelled N. The total concentration of this sample was calculated as in Example 7. Sample F from Example 8 was concentrated to dryness. The residue was taken up in 200 mcl of methanol and subjected to preparative HPLC chromatography on a DuPont Zorbax ODS C₁₈ column 0.94 X 25 cm at room temperature. The chromatography was carried out using an isocratic solvent system of 75 25 v v methanol water at a flow rate of 4 ml minute. The effluent stream was monitored at 243 nm 0.64 AUFS using an L.D.C. Spectro Monitor II with a 1 mm path length cell. Eleven fractions were collected based on the ultra violet trace. Fraction No. 6 was selected and labeled sample O. The total concentration of this sample was calculated as in Example 7. Sample G from Example 3 was concentrated to dryness. The residue was taken up in 200 mcl of methanol and subjected to preparative HPLC chromatography on a DuPont Zorbax ODS C₁₈ column 0.94 X 25 cm at room temperature. The chromatography was carried out using an isocratic solvent system of 20 45 35 v v v acetonitrile methanol water at a flow rate of 4 ml minute. The effluent stream was monitored at 243 nm 0.64 AUFS using an L.D.C. Spectro Monitor II with a 1 mm path length cell. Fourteen fractions were collected based on the ultra violet trace. Fraction 7 was labelled sample P. Fractions 9 and 10 were combined and labelled sample Q. The total concentration of sample P was calculated as in Example 7. Sample H from Example 8 was concentrated to dryness. The residue was taken up in 100 mcl of methanol and subjected to preparative HPLC on a DuPont Zorbax ODS C₁₈ column 0.94 X 25 cm at room temperature. The chromatography was carried out using an isocratic solvent system of 20 45 35 v v v acetonitrile methanol water at a flow rate of 4 ml minute. The effluent stream was monitored at 243 nm 0.32 AUFS using an L.D.C. Spectro Monitor II with a 1 mm path length cell. Nine fractions were collected based on the ultra violet trace. Fraction 9 was combined with sample Q from Example 12 and labelled sample R. Fraction 10 was labelled sample S. The total concentrations of samples R and S were calculated as in Example 7. The methylene chloride extract, Specific Example 14B, sample 14, was concentrated to dryness and the residue taken up in 600 mcl of 70 30 v v methanol water and filtered. The filtrate was then subjected to preparative HPLC chromatography on a DuPont Zorbax ODS C₁₈ column 0.94 X 25 cm at room temperature. The chromatography was carried out using the following gradient generated by a DuPont 8800 Gradient Controller, at a flow rate of 4 ml minute. Gradient 70 30 methanol water for 30 minutes then a linear gradient to 85 15 methanol water over five minutes, hold at 85 15 for 30 minutes, then linear gradient to 100 methanol over five minutes, hold at 100 methanol for 22 minutes. The effluent was monitored at 243 nm 0.64 AUFS using an L.D.C. Spectro Monitor II equipped with a 1 mm path length cell. Forty four samples were collected based on the ultra violet trace. The concentrations of compounds were determined by analytical HPLC comparing area counts of unknown to the area counts mcg of avermectin B2a aglycone as follows The following fractions were selected The cyclohexane extract, Specific Example 14B, sample 13, was concentrated to dryness. One ml of 70 30 v v methanol water was added to the residue and sonicated for 10 minutes, then filtered. The filtrate was labeled H. The insoluble material was taken up in a 1 ml methylene chloride filter wash and concentrated to dryness. One ml of 70 30 v v methanol water was added to the residue and sonicated for 10 minutes, then filtered. The filtrate was labeled I. Samples H and I were combined, concentrated to dryness. The residue was taken up in 600 mcl of 85 15 v v methanol water and subjected to preparative HPLC chromatography on a DuPont Zorbax ODS C₁₈ 0.94 X 25 cm column at room temperature. The chromatography was carried out using the following gradient generated by a DuPont 8800 Gradient controller, at a flow rate of 4 ml minute. Gradient 70 30 methanol water for 30 minutes then a linear gradient to 85 15 methanol water over 5 minutes, hold at 85 15 for 30 minutes then linear gradient over 5 minutes to 100 methanol, hold at 100 methanol for 30 minutes. The effluent stream was monitored at 243 nm 0.32 AUFS using an L.D.C. Spectro Monitor II equipped with a 1 mm path length cell. Thirty eight fractions were collected based on the ultra violet trace. The sample concentrations were calculated as in Example 15. The following fractions were selected