# Stable dispersions of inorganic particles.

## Abstract
A redispersible silica dispersion is provided containing selected water soluble cationic surfactants, the dispersion be ing characterised in that the particle size range concentration and pH are selected to allow minimal amounts of surfactant to stabilise the dispersion and, optionally, a preservative may be added to maintain the dispersion free from microbial con tamination.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A redispersible silica dispersion comprising an aqueous dispersion of silica and water soluble cationic surfactant characterised in that the silica has an average particle size in the range 1 to 20 ssm, in that the silica content of the dispersion is from 5 to 50 by weight of the dispersion and in that the pH of the dispersion is in the range 3 to 5, the cationic surfactant being selected from mono and di alkyl quaternary ammonium bromides and chlorides, sulphonium and phosphonium salts and amines and in an amount from 0.005 to 2.0 by weight of the dispersion, the amount of surfactant being directly related to the silica content of the dispersion. 2. A redispersible silica dispersion as claimed in claim 1 characterised in that the pH is in the range 3.4 to 4.8. 3. A redispersible silica dispersion as claimed in claim 1 or 2 in which the weight of cationic surfactant is in the range 0.005 to 0.5 by weight of the dispersion. 4. A redispersible silica dispersion as claimed in any one of the preceding claims containing an amount of a preservative effective to maintain the dispersion in a condition free from microbial contamination. 5. A dispersion as claimed in claim 4 in which the preservative is formalin. 6. A process for the preparation of a redispersible silica dispersion comprising treating an aqueous dispersion of a silica having an average particle size in the range 1 20 ssm at a pH in the range 3 to 5 with a cationic surfactant in an amount from 0.005 to 0.5 by weight of the dispersion and optionally adding to the dispersion an amount of preservative effective to maintain the redispersible dispersion free from microbial contamination.

## Description
STABLE DISPERSIONS OF INORGANIC PARTICLES This invention relates to the prevention of compact sediment formation in dispersions of inorganic particles. Various proposals have hitherto been made for the prevention of compact sediment formation in dispersions of inorganic particles such as aluminosilicates. In UnitedStates Specification No 2 888 354 it has been proposed to stabilise a slurry of a silica sol and a powdered refractory material using nonionic or cationic surface active agents. This invention is concerned more particularly with the prevention of compact sediment formation in a dispersion of a silica in an essentially aqueous medium having a particle size in the range 1 20 am. Silica gels and precipitates having an average particle size Coulter Counter in the range from about 1 to 20 am are commercially available and are generally sold as powders in bags or in baulk containers. For certain applications of these silicas it is desirable to have an aqueous dispersion of the material, but it has been found that such dispersions frequently settle out to form a hard, non redispersible sediment at the bottom of a container. It has now been found that by selecting particular surfactants and controlling the pH of the system, a small proportion of cationic surfactant can be used to give a dispersion of silica which forms no hard sediment and is readily redispersible. For some applications of the dispersions it is desirable to have minimal contamination of the aqueous dispersion by other materials which may react with other components with which the dispersion may ultimately be combined. Accordingly, the present invention provides a redispersible silica dispersion comprising an aqueous dispersion of silica and a water soluble cationic surfactant characterised in that the silica has an average particle size in the range 1 to 20 m, in that the silica content of the dispersion is from 5 to 50 by weight of the dispersion and in that the pH of the dispersion is in the range 3 to 5 and preferably 3.4 to 4.8, the cati6nic surfactant being selected from mono and di alkyl quaternary ammonium bromides and chlorides, sulphonium and phosphonium salts and amines and in an amount from 0.005 to 2.0 and preferably 0.005 to 0.5 by weight of the dispersion, the amount of surfactant being directly related to the silica content of the dispersion. Preferably the dispersion also contains an effective amount of a preservative to prevent microbial contamination. Suitable preservatives include formalin 36.6 aqueous formaldehyde solution , 2 bromo 2 nitropropene 1,3 diol eg Bronopol , sulphur dioxide and combinations of the above or other appropriate preservatives. The level of preservative in the suspension should be maintained at the minimum level necessary to prevent microbial contamination and this will be related to the purity of the components of the dispersion and to its storage conditions. Although higher levels could be added this would normally be superfluous. Such a minimum level for formalin is 0.2 based on the total slurry. The silica may be a micronised silica gel or a precipitated silica and may contain some residual electrolyte. Suitable micronsed silica gels for use in the preparation of compositions according to this invention are sold under the, trade mark Gasils by Joseph Crosfield Sons Limited of Warrington, England, although other silica gels and prsecipitates in a suitably small particulate form may be employed. The cationic surfactants are preferably C12 18 mono alkyl quaternary ammonium bromides and chlorides, such as cetyl trimethyl ammonium bromide, dodecyl trimethyl ammonium bromide, cetyl pyridinium chloride,Arquad 16 hexadecyl trimethyl ammonium chloride . The amount of cationic surfactant employed should be directly related to the silica content of the dispersion.That is to say, the higher the silica concentration the higher the percentage of surfactant to be added.However, the benefit obtained in accordance with the present invention is that by adjusting the pH of the suspension the amount of surfactant required to stabilise the dispersion is reduced by a significant amount compared with dispersions at a higher pH. In addition the present invention provides a process for the preparation of a redispersible silica dispersion comprising treating an aqueous dispersion of a silica having an average particle size in the range 1 20 ssm at a pH in the range 3 to 5 with a cationic surfactant in an amount from 0.005 to 0.5 by weight of the dispersion. The following Experiments illustrate the invention.Experiment 1 A 10 w w dispersion of silica gel Gasil 35 APS 3.2 ssm at pH 6.8 was divided into separate 10 cm9 measuring cylinders and diluted to 5 w w with cationic surfactant cetyl trimethyl ammonium bromide of varying concentrations. The samples were allowed to stand for 23 hours after which time the ease of redispersion, reflected in the sediment volume, was assessed. Concentration Ease of of Surfactant S Sm Redispersion 0 0.25 0.02 0.32 difficult 0.03 0.59 0.04 0.84 0.05 0.89 0.1 0.96 0.2 0.96 easy 0.25 1.00 0.3 0.96 0.4 0.82 Example 1 The above was repeated after first adjusting the pH of the 10 wlw silica dispersion to pH 4.5 with concentrated hydrochloric acid. It was observed, surprisingly, that the level of cationic surfactant necessary to prevent hard sediment was reduced by an order of magnitude. Concentration Ease of of Surfactant S Sm Redispersion 0 0.33 0.001 0.36 difficult 0.002 0.40 0.005 0.81 0.01 0.88 0.02 0.95 easy 0.03 0.98 0.05 1.00 0.1 1.00 In the above tables S sediment volume at the surfactant concentration stated, and Sm maximum observed sediment volume. Gasil is a Trade Mark and Gasil 35 is a silica gel having a pore volume of 1.2 ml g and a BET surface area of 320 ma g and an average particle size by Coulter Counter of 3.2 Fm. Example 2 A series of samples were prepared containing 20 w w silica Gasil 200 TP APS 4.5 ssm and varying concentrations of cationic surfactant Arquad 16 . The pH of these dispersions was 4.3. The samples were allowed to stand for 7 days after which time the ease of redispersion of the sediments was assessed by end over end rotation of the samples until complete redispersion of the sediment occurred or up to a maximum of 50 rotations. The ease of redispersion was recorded as InitialSediment Volume Residual Sediment Volume Number ofRotations . A value greater than about three indicates easy redispersion. Concentration of Surfactant Ease of Redispersion 0 0.0 Difficult 0.01 10.0 0.02 13.4 Easy 0.1 13.6 0.2 14.2 Gasil 200 TP is a silica gel having a pore volume of 0.4 ml g a BET surface area of 750 m2 g and an average particle size by Coulter Counter of 4.5 ssm. Example 3 A 10 w w dispersion of precipitated silica Microsil GP was diluted with cationic surfactant cetyl trimethyl ammonium bromide and hydrochloric acid to give 10 cm3 dispersions of 5 w w silica at pH 6.8, 4.8 and 3.2 of varying cationic surfactant concentration. The samples were allowed to stand in 10 cm3 measuring cylinders for 3 days then the ease of redispersion of the sediments assessed by end over end rotating as described in Example 2. Concentration Ease of Redispersion of Surfactant pH 6.8 pH 4.8 pH 3.2 0 0 0 0 0.01 0 7.8 12.0 0.02 10.0 7.0 12.7 0.05 6.1 12.0 14.3Example 4 1 Kg samples of 21 w w Gasil 200TP in deionised water were prepared at cetyl trimethyl ammonium bromide concentrations of 0, 0.1 and 1.2 w w, based on silica ie 0, 0.02 and 0.25 based on the total slurry . The pH of the slurries were 3.5 0.1. The suspensions were allowed to stand, undisturbed, in I litre measuring cylinders, at room temperature for successive periods of 3, 52 and 206 days. After each period, the sediment volume and ease of redispersion of the total sediment, by end over end rotation, were measured. The air space above the slurry, necessary for assisting redispersion, was 275 25 cm3. The results below show there to be no deterioration in performance over the period of storage. While compact sediment formation, on a 1 kg scale, was prevented at a cationic level of 0.1 based on silica, a further improvement in ease of redispersion can be achieved at higher, 1.2 , cationic levels. 3 Days 52 Days 206 DaysCTAB 0 0.1 1.2 0 0.1 1.2 0 0.1 1.2 Sediment volume cm3 510 550 570 460 540 563 425 524 565Turns to redisperse 118 49 14 125 18 11Example 5 Several one tonne batches of Gasil 200 TP slurry containing 25 w w 200 TP silica, 0.025 w w Arquad 16, 0.2 w w formalin, and having a final pH in the range 3 to 4.5 were prepared by direct addition to one tonne tote bins with continuous stirring during mixing. While the slurries rapidly separated to an approximate 60 sediment 40 water the sediment was soft, that is no hard compact sediment, permitting ready redispersion on subsequent stirring after standing for periods of up to one month. The slurries were in addition free from microbial contamination.Example 6 Slurries containing 258 w w Gasil 200TP in water at 0 and 0.02 cetyl trimethyl ammonium bromide CTAB , based on the total weight of slurry were prepared in 100 cm3 measuring cylinders, in the absence and presence of preservatives as shown below. The pH of the slurries was 3.6, except in the presence of salicylic acid where a drop in pH to 2.6 necessitated the addition of sodium hydroxide to readjust to pH 3.6. The samples were allowed to stand for 4 days, recording the percentage sediment volume and ease of redispersion by end over end rotation. The results shown in Table 1 show there to be no modification to sediment behaviour in the presence of 0.2 formalin and 0.01 Bronopol. In the presence of salicylic acid, however, compact sedimentation in the absence of CTAB is much more severe, the addition of CTAB therefore giving a greater comparative improvement in redispersibility of the sediment. Table 1 Sediment Volume After 4 Days turns to redisperse w w No 0.2 0.01 0.2 CTAB Preservative Formalin Bronopol Salicylic Acid 0 60 60 57 90 59 73 47 100 0.02 69 14 70 4 70 35 73 33