# SENSOR AND CONTROL SYSTEM FOR A ROBOTIC GRIPPER

## Claims
Fühler zur Verwendung in einem Steuerungssystem für einen Robotergreifer, wobei das Steuerungssystem einen Steuerungsschaltkreis 10 zur Steuerung der Bewegung des Greifers 20 auf einer vorbestimmten Bahn umfaßt, um so in einer zwischen den Enden der genannten Bahn vorgesehenen Position einen Kontakt zwischen dem Fühler 30 und einem Gegenstand A herzustellen, wobei entweder der Fühler am Greifer montiert ist und der Gegenstand sich an einem Arbeitsplatz befindet oder der Fühler sich in einer Bezugsposition befindet und der Gegenstand vom Greifer erfaßt ist, wobei der Fühler umfaßt

## Description
This invention relates to a control system for a robotic gripper and it relates also to a sensing device for use in such a system. In an automatic assembly and or processing system a robotic gripper is often employed to convey an article, e.g. a workpiece or tool, from one prearranged work station to another. The article should be presented at the intended station with a required degree of precision and, to this and, it is usually desirable to assess if the article is being held in the gripper correctly. A known system includes a processor conditioned to control movement of the gripper on a desired, preplanned path. To assess if an article is being held correctly, the path is so designed that the article contacts a sensor fixed at a known position. Conventionally the sensor output is monitored continually and the gripper halted when contact is detected. The position of the gripper is then evaluated and, if necessary, a suitable correction applied to the path to take account of any discrepancy between the actual and expected positions of the gripper. This technique tends to be rather unsatisfactory in that the gripper is subject to delay, reducing the efficiency of associated processing and or assembly operations. Delay may also be encountered If the sensor is mounted on the gripper itself and used to evaluate the position of an article which is fixed in relation to a work surface and relative to which the gripper, and so the sensor, can move. It is an object of the present invention to provide a control system in which the above described problems are at least alleviated. AT A 351 779 discloses a probe arrangement for use in a control system for controlling movement of an article. The arrangement includes an elongate probe body for sensing the profile of the article by detecting movement of the probe body along its own axis as the article moves in a direction transverse to that axis. GB A 1,589,297 discloses a sensor including a probe which is mounted coaxially in a base member, and generates an electrical signal when its movement along its own axis brings it into contact with an article. GB A 1,586,052 discloses a sensor having a probe resiliently mounted coaxially in a base member, and generating an electrical signal when its movement transverse to its own axis brings it into contact with an article. Contact is detected by movement between the probe and the base member. According to the invention there is provided a sensor, for use in a control system for a robotic gripper, the control system including a processing circuit for controlling movement of the gripper on a prearranged path so as to establish, at a position intermediate the ends of said path, contact between the sensor and an article either with the sensor mounted on the gripper and the article located at a workstation, or with the sensor at a reference position and the article carried by the gripper, the sensor comprising With a sensor in accordance with the present invention data may be evaluated while the gripper is in motion. On the fly measurement of this kind leads to faster accumulation of data and more efficient planning of gripper movement than would otherwise be the case. In order that the invention may be carried readily into effect an embodiment thereof is now described, by way of example only, by reference to, and as illustrated in, the accompanying drawings of which, The control system of Figure 1 includes a processing circuit, shown generally at 10, conditioned to control movement of a robotic gripper 20 on a prearranged path. To assess if an article, respresented at A, is being gripped correctly a sensing device 30 is provided to contact the article at a known position on the path. When contact is established, the sensing device generates a electrical pulse which is routed to the processing circuit. In general, the processing circuit will have been supplied with data relating to the size and or shape of the article to be gripped and to its intended position and or orientation in the gripper, and with this data the processing circuit can evaluate the expected position of the gripper at the instant of contact. This evaluation is, of course, based on the assumption that the article is being gripped correctly. The extent of any discrepancy between the actual and expected positions can be evaluated by the processor which may then effect a suitable modification in the path to compensate for misalignment and or mis orientation of the article in the gripper. Figure 2 illustrates, schematically a simplified example, in which a gripper 20 moves in one direction only in the x axis direction and the article A, which is rectangular in cross section, is intended to be gripped centrally, as shown in Figure 2a. In these circumstances, the gripper assumes an expected position x As shown in Figures 3 and 4, the sensing device is so contructed as to allow substantially uninterrupted movement of the gripper, even when contact with an article, held by the gripper, has been established. The device has three main parts, namely a base 31, a rod like probe 32 and a support assembly 33 on which the probe is mounted. These parts assume a normally stable configuration, each centred on, and having cylindrical symmetry about, a common, longitudinal axis XX of the device. However, to accommodate movement of the gripper both the probe and its support are individually displaceable with respect to the axis. On first contact with an object, the situation illustrated in Figure 3b, the probe is displaced in relation to the support assembly and a displacement sensor, described in greater detail hereinafter, responds instantaneously to indicate that contact has been detected. The probe is capable of undergoing only limited displacement with respect to the support assembly and eventually comes hard up against a stop, as shown in Figure 3c. Thereafter, the support assembly itself is displaced with respect to the base, as demonstrated in Figure 3d. Thus the device has, in effect, a knock down construction. Referring to Figure 4, the probe is anchored securely to a lower part 34 of a bush 34. An upper part 34 of the bush is fixed to the body of the support assembly and has a rim R defining, in effect, a pivot on which the lower part of the bush can rock thereby to accommodate angular displacement of the probe with respect to the support assembly. A compression spring 35 is arranged to act on the lower part of the bush and tends to maintain the probe in its stable position, as shown, and to restore the probe to that position, with precision, after it has been displaced. In this example, the bush also houses a displacement sensor 36 comprising a pair of windings W , W formed on respective ferrite cores C , C mounted in the upper and lower parts of the bush. A slight displacement of the probe, occasioned by contact with an article, introduces an air gap between the cores sufficient to produce a detectable change in the mutual inductance of the coils. Typically, one of the coils is fed with a suitable a.c. signal and a response signal is detected across the leads of the other. It will be appreciated that an alternative form of sensor suitable for detecting contact with an article could be employed e.g. a sensor utilising an optical, capacitive, magnetic or piezo electric technique. A flange 37 on the upper part of the bush defines a stop which limits displacement of the probe, with respect to the support assembly. Continued displacement of the probe with respect to the longitudinal axis XX of the device can still be achieved, however, by displacement of the support assembly itself with respect to the base. To this end a groove G formed in the lower edge of the support assembly locates in an upstanding rim R of the base which acts as a pivot. The base and support assembly are coupled together resiliently by means of a coil spring 38, and suitably shaped formations on the lower edge ensure that the support assembly is held in contact with the base during displacement. As in the case of spring 35, spring 38 tends to hold the support assembly in the stable position, as shown in Figure 4, and to restore the assembly to that positon, with precision, after it has been displaced. It will be appreciated that a sensing device of the kind described herein by reference to Figures 3 and 4 is particularly beneficial when used in a system of the kind described by reference to Figure 1. A sensing device having a knock down construction of the described kind permits uninhibited movement of the gripper thus on the fly measurements can be made resulting in a faster accumulation of data and faster manipulator speeds than would otherwise be possible. The sensing device is especially advantageous in an application wherein a robotic gripper must approach the sensor in a number of different directions thereby to accumulate sufficient data to assess the position and or orientation of a complex object in relation to the gripper in these circumstances more efficient planning of the gripper movement can be achieved. In another example of the invention, a knock down sensor of the kind described hereinbefore is mounted on the gripper itself and used to evaluate the position and or orientation of an article relative to which the gripper, and so the sensor, can move. The article may, for example, be held in a vice mounted on a work surface. The gripper may be caused to move on a path so as to contact the article to evaluate, without ambiguity its position and or orientation in relation to the gripper. The sensor may be used, for example, to contact a distinctive feature of the article.