# Curing agents for water glass.

## Abstract
Phosphate glass powder is a curing agent for alkaline binders such as water glass or silica sol. The phosphate glass powder may be pre treated with a substance such as calcium hydroxide that is capable of reacting in solution with a phosphoric acid ion to form an insoluble or scarcely soluble salt, to decrease the reactivity of the powder with the water glass and permit improved control of the pot life of the mixture. The cured compositions have good bonding strength and water resistance.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A curing agent for water glass or silica sol comprising phosphate glass powder that has been treated by reaction with a solution of a substance capable of reacting with a phosphoric acid ion to form an insoluble or scarcely soluble salt. 2. A curing agent according to claim l, wherein the said substance is calcium hydroxide, magnesium hydroxide or barium hydroxide. 3. A curing agent according to claim 1 or claim 2, wherein the phosphate glass powder is a two component system comprisingA1203 P205. 4. A curing agent according to claim 1 or claim 2, wherein the phosphate glass powder is a three component system comprising CaO A1203 P205 or ZnO A1203 P205. 5. A curing agent according to any preceding claim wherein the phosphate glass powder has a particle size nogreater than about 88 microns. 6. A curing agent according to any preceding claim, wherein the phosphate glass powder contains no less than about 50 by weight of P205. 7. A composition comprising a water glass or silica sol and b an effective curing amount of a phosphate glass powder. 8. A composition according to claim 7, wherein component a is water glass and comprises sodium silicate , potassium silicate or lithium silicate. 9. A composition according to claim 7 or claim 8, wherein the phosphate glass powder is a two component system comprising A1203 P205. 10. A composition according to claim 7 or claim 8, wherein the phosphate glass powder is a three component system comprising CaO A1203 P205 or ZnO A1203 P205. 11. A composition according to any one of claims 7 to 10, wherein the phosphate glass powder has a particle size no greater than about 88 microns. 12. A composition according to any one of claims 7 to 11, wherein the phosphate glass powder contains no less than about 50 by weight of P205. 13. A composition according to any one of claims 7 to 12, wherein the amount of phosphate glass powder is about 10 to 200 parts by weight per 100 parts by weight of water glass. 14. A composition according to any one of claims 7 to 13, wherein the phosphate glass powder is a curing agent according to claim 1 or claim 2. 15. A cured mass of the composition of any one of claims 7 to 14. 16. The use of a phosphate glass powder as a curing agent for silicate binders of the water glass or silica sol kind.

## Description
CURING AGENTS FOR WATER GLASS Field of the Invention The present invention relates to a curing agent for solutions of sodium silicate, potassium silicate, etc. or so called water glass. Background of the Invention Water glass can be produced with relative ease, is inexpensive and free from any toxicity, and has been widely used as a binder for adhesives, paints, and the like. However, water glass has the disadvantage that, when it is cured as such by air drying the cured mass is poor in water resistance, since the constituent alkali silicate, per se, is a water soluble material. For that reason, various curing agents such as silicofluorides, condensed aluminum phosphate, acetates and the like are usually employed to improve the water resistance ot cured masses. However, none of these agents gives satisfactory results. For instance, when the well known silicofluorides are used as curing agents, it is possible to introduce certain improvements in water resistance, but difficulty is involved in the regulation of the period of time from mixing with water glass to curing, that is, the pot life. There is also another disadvantage that harmful substances such as sodium fluoride are formed in the cured wasses. with respect to condensed aluminum phosphate, which is knows to show relatively favorable physical properties such as water resistance, pot life, etc., this substance also has the disadvantage that its production requires special procedures which are troublesome and do not easily give any inexpensive products.Thus, the prior art curing agents have both merits and demerits, and there is still a need for an effective and advantageous curing agent for water glass materials. Summary of the Invention As a result of studies made to solve the foregoing problems, it has been found that phosphate glass powder shows favorable physical properties as a curing agent for water glass. It has also been found that a curing agent for water glass capable of easily regulating the curing time, viz., the pot life of water glass, is obtained by treating such phosphate glass powder with a solution of a substance capable of reacting with a phosphoric acid ion to form an insoluble or scarcely soluble salt, for instance, an aqueous solution of calcium hydroxide. Preffered embodiment of the Invention The term phosphate glass used herein refers to glasses containing P205 as the glass forming oxide. In phosphate glass, phosphoric acid actually constitutes network units in the form of a P04 3 ion tetrahedron wherein, out of four oxygen atoms surrounding a P atom, only one oxygen atom is generally taken as being present as a non crossltnked oxygen atom. For that reason, phosphate glass is generally of a network structure that is more open than silicate glass. This is the reason why only a certain type of phosphate glass is known to be used in a special field.In accordance with the present invention, however, it has been found as a result of various investigations that the phosphate glass can provide a favorable curing agent for water glass, that is an alkaline solution, by making use of the properties that it is poor in chemical durability, and more easily suffers erosion in an alkaline solution. As the phosphate glasses capable of being used as the curing agents for water glass in the present invention, use is effectively made of those having various composition . Although no special limitation is imposed upon these compositions, it is generally preferred that the curing agent of the cold curing type contain no less than about 50 by weight of P208e When the content of P2O5 is lower, the resulting composition generally needs a prolonged period of time for curing, depending upon the amount of the curing agent used. In some cases, it is thus required to heat such curing agents to some extent to achieve curing within a short time. Zn any case, the phosphate glasses yield curing agents having a variety of curing ability, which may be used according to the desired purpose.While phosphate glaes powder can provide a curing agent for water glass, it is more preferable that, in order to obtain cured masses having improved physical properties, in particular more improved water resistance that has been desired in the prior art, the phosphate glasses contain substances for decreasing the solubility of silica gel resulting therefrom, for instance, Al203, CaO, etc. The phosphate glass compositions which can be produced with relative ease from such a point of view embrace a great number of systems including, for instance. two component systems represented in terms of Al2O3 P205 and three component systems represented in terms of CaO A1203 P205 and ZnO A1203 P205. In the following, the curing agents of the present invention will be mainly explained with reference to the A1203 P205 and CaO A1zO3 PzOs systems. These phosphate glass systems are essentially comprised ofA1203 and P2Os, and are of the network structure of an oxygen tetrahedron including a O P O Al O bond. Referring to, e.g., the CaO Al2O3 P2O5 system, a part of such a network structure is considered to be cut off by a modification oxide such as CaO.The P205 source of such phosphate glasses includes, for instance, phosphoric acid, ammonium phosphate, etc., the A1203 source includes alumina, aluminum hydroxide, etc., and the cao source includes calcium hydroxide, calcium carbonate, etc.Alternatively, such glasses may be obtained by suitable mixing of aluminum phosphate. a compound of P2O5 with A1203, calcium phosphate, a compound of P2O5 with CaO, and the like, followed by melting at high temperatures and quenching. For instance, it has been found that the CaO A1203 P205 system has a variety of compositions requiring a temperature of as low as 10000C to a temperature of as high as S00 C for vitrification. The resulting glasses can be used as the curing agents for water glass according to the present invention.When such phosphate glasses are used as thescuring agents for water glass, they are pulverized to a suitable particle size of generally no higher than about 88 microns. with the same sample, the finer the particle size, the higher the reactivity with respect to water glass, resulting in Curtailment of pot life after mixing with water glass. according to one aspect of the present invention, the thus prepared phosphate glass powder yields a satisfactosy curing agent for water glass, and the resulting cured mazes shows satisfactory physical properties represented in n terns af water resistance, etc. On the other hand, when the phosphate glass powder according to the present invention is used as a curing agent for water glass without making any modification thereto, there arises no substantial problem in connection with the water resistance, etc. of the resultant cured mass. However, it is true that considerable difficulty is frequently encountered in the regulation of pot liver since it becomes too short or long, depending upon the difference in the composition of the glass. According to another aspect of the present invention, it has been found that the pot life can be relatively easily controlled between several minutes and several hours or longer by allowing the phosophate glass powder having a short pot life to mix and react with a solution ofa substance capable of reacting with a phosphoric acid ion to form an insoluble or scarcely soluble salt, such as a solution of calcium hydroxide in varied concentrations. Substances forming such an insoluble or scarcely soluble salt include magnesium hydroxide, barium hydroxide, etc. in addition to calcium hydroxide. Usually, satisfactory results are obtained with calcium hydroxide, which is inexpensive. Although not clarified, the cause for extension of the pot life due to such treatment may be considered to result from the fact that, for example, P2O5 in the vicinity of the surfaces of the phosphate particles reacts with calcium hydroxide to form an insoluble or scarcely soluble calcium phosphate on those surfaces which, in turn, hinders the reactivity with water glass. In any case, that treatment makes it possible to control the pot life between several minutes and several hours or longer without having any substantially adverse influence upon the physical properties, etc. of the cured mass, thus providing a favorable curing agent for water glass. Varying with the composition of the curing agent and the type of water glass, the amount of the curing agent used in the present invention is usually in a range of about 10 to 200 parts by weight per 100 parts by weight of water glass. For instance, in the case of No. JIS3 water glass, a cured mass having improved water resistance is obtained with the use of an amount of about 20 to 120 parts by weight. When mixing with water glass, the curing agent of the invention consisting of the phosphate glass powder is generally cured at normal room temperature. that is, it shows a self curing property , depending upon its composition. If the mixing tatio of the curing agent and water glass is appropriate, then the resulting cured mass shows improved water resistance without the application of any particular high temperature treatment. However, the application of a high temperature treatment may be desired when the amount of the curing agent used is small with the result that the content or P2o5 is so small that the reaction of the curing agent with water glass is considerably delayed at normal temperature, or a further increase in water resistance, etc. is required. No particular limitation is imposed upon the water glass used in the present invention, and any commercially available products such as soda silicate, potassium silicate or lithium silicate can be used. The curing agent of the present invention is effectively applicable to not only water glass but also alkaline binders similar thereto, for instance, silica 101. In the following, the curing agents according to the present invention will be explained in further detail with reference to the following examples, which are given for the purpose of illustration only. EXAMPLESA Preparation of Curing Agents 1. After 6 parts by weight of aluminum hydroxide are mixed with 100 parts by weight of aluminum primary phosphate Al H2po4 3 , the mixture is filled in an alumina crucible, followed by closing of a lid of alumina. The crucible is then heated to 14500C over about 1.5 hours, and is maintained at that temperature for 30 minutes. Thereafter, the contents are poured into water for quenching to obtain phosphate glass consisting of about 24 by weight of A1203 and about 76 e by weight of P205. A ter drying, the thus obtained glass is pulverized to no more than 88 microns to obtain a phosphate glass curing agent SampleNo. 1 .2. After 0.25 gram of calcium hydroxide has been mixed with 100 grams of the curing agent powder obtained in 1 , the mixture is charged into a beaker with the addition of about 1 liter or water. While heating and maintaining the beaker at a temperature of about 900C, mixing and stirring are effected until the ps of the liquid decreases to no higher than about 8. thereafter, filtration and drying yield a surface treated phospnate glass curing agent Sample No. 2 . 3. After 0.5 gram of calcium hydroxide has been mixed with 100 grams of the powder obtained in 1 , the mixture is charged into a beaker with the addition of about 1 liter of water. The procedures of 2 are repeated to obtain a surface treated phosphate glass touring agent Sample No. 3 . 4. After 1 gram of calcium hydroxide has been mixed with 100 grams of the powder obtained in 1 , the mixture is charged into a beaker with. the addition of about 1 liter of water. The procedures of 2 are then repeated to obtain a surface treated phosphate glass curing agent Sample No. 4 .5. After 5 grams of calcium hydroxide have been mixed with 100 grams of the powder obtained in 11 , the mixture is charged into a beaker with the addition of about 1 liter of water. The procedures of 2 are then repeated to obtain a surface treated phosphate glass curing agent Sample No. 5 . 6. After 31 parts by weight of aluminum phosphate AlPO4 and 13 parts by weight. of calcium hydroxide Ca OH 2 have been mixed with 100 parts by weight of ammonium primary phosphate NH4R2PO4 , the mixture is placed into an alumina crucible, followed by closing of a lid of alumina. The crucible is then heated to 1250 C over about 1 hour, and is maintained at that temperature for 1 hour. Thereafter, the contents are poured into water for quenching.The product is dried and is then pulverized to no higher than about 88 microns to obtain a phosphate glass curing agent Sample No. 6 comprising about 9.5 z by weight of CaO, about 13 by weight of A1203 and about 77 z by weight of P2050 7. After 19.5 parts by weight of aluminum phosphate and 41 parts by weight of calcium hydroxide have been mixed with 100 parts by weight of ammonium primary phosphate, the mixture is charged into an alumina crucible, followed by closing a lid of alumina. The crucible is then heated to 14000C over about 1.5 hours and is maintained at that temperature for 1 hour.The procedures of 6 are then repeated to obtain a phosphate glass curing agent Sample No. 7 comprising about 28 t by weight ofCaO, about 7 by weight of A12O3 and about 64 z by weight of P205 . 8. A mixture of 100 grams of Sample No. 6 with I gram of calcium hydroxide is charged into a beaker with the addition of about 1 liter of water. While heating and maintaining the beaker up to about 90 C, mixing and stirring are effected until the pH of the liquid. decreases to no higher than about 8.Subsequently, filtration and drying yield a surface treated phosphate glass curing agent Sample No. 8 .9. A mixture of 100 grams or Sample No. 6 with 2.5 grams of calcium hydroxide is subjected to the procedures of 6 to obtain a surface treated phosphate glass curing agent SampleNo. 9 . 10. A mixture of 100 grams of Sample No. 6 with 5 grams of calcium hydroxide is subjected to the procedures of 6 to obtain a surface treated phosphate glass curing agent SampleNo. 10 .B Pot Life Testing is carried out to examine the pot life of the mixture of water glass with each of the curing agents mentioned above. A mixture of 40 parts by weigth of each curing agent with 100 parts by weight of commercially available No. 3 water glass 8.7 by weight Na2O, 27.3 by weight SiO2 is further mixed for bout 1 minute. hereafter, 30 grams of the resulting mixture are charged into a polystyrene container of 37mm dia. x 50 which is then closed and sometimes turned upside down. The pot life is then defined in terms of a period or time during ta e mixture loses its flowability. This testing is carried out indoors at about 21 C. The results are set forth inTable 1. Table l EMI13.1 tb SEP Mixing SEP Proportion SEP of tb SEP Curing SEP Agents SEP per SEP 100 tb Curing SEP Agent SEP parts SEP by SEP weight SEP Pot SEP Life tb SEP of SEP No. SEP 3 SEP Water SEP Glass tb SEP parts SEP by SEP weight tb Sample SEP No. SEP 1 SEP 40 SEP 15 SEP min tb Sample SEP No. SEP 2 SEP 40 SEP 50 SEP min tb Sample SEP No. SEP 3 SEP 40 SEP 1 SEP hr SEP 40 SEP min tb Sample SEP No. SEP 4 SEP 40 SEP 5 SEP hr SEP 30 SEP min tb Sample SEP No. SEP 5 SEP 40 SEP 36 SEP hr tb Sample SEP No. SEP 6 SEP 40 SEP within SEP 5 SEP min tb Sample SEP No. SEP 7 SEP 40 SEP within SEP 5 SEP min tb Sample SEP No. SEP 8 SEP 40 SEP 25 SEP min tb Sample SEP No. SEP 9 SEP 40 SEP 1 SEP hr SEP 15 SEP min tb Sample SEP No. SEP 10 SEP 40 SEP 3 SEP hr SEP 30 SEP min tb Soda SEP Silicofluoride SEP 26.4 SEP 30 SEP min tb SEP for SEP control SEP 13.2 SEP 40 SEP min tb SEP 6.6 SEP 50 SEP min tb Note Soda silicofluoride is used for control. Assuming that soda silicofluoride and Na2O in water glass are cured according to the following reaction formulas 2Na20 Na2Siv6 6NaF SiO2, the mixing ratio with water glass is fixed at 200 l, 100 and 50 of tbeoretical. Soda silicofluoride is adjusted to a particle size of no greater than 88 microns. As will easily be understood from the results as set forth above, the curing agents according to the present invention are characterized in that it is significantly easy to control the pot life thereof, compared with the conventional curing agents which have encountered considerable difficulty in the regulation of the pot life. It is to be noted that the pot life testing is carried out using only mixtures of the curing agents with water glass so as to examine a difference in the performance of the curing agents per se as completely as possible. However, it should be understood that the present invention is not only applicable to curing agents for water glass, but also that the curing agents of the present invention may be mixed with fillers, etc. to prepare adhesives, cured masses, etc. without incurring any problem.C Adhesive Property and water Resistance To confirm further the performance of the curing agents of the present invention, such curing agents, No. 3 water glass and fillers are used to prepare inorganic bonding agents with a uiew to testing the adhesive property and water resistance thereof.The curing agents for testing are Sample Nos. 5 and 10 given inTable 1 and soda silicofluoride for the control. The compositions of the bonding agents under test are shown in Table 2, and powdery silica and wollastonite used as fillers are adusted to a particle size of no more than 88 microns and 44 microns, respectively. Table 2EMI15.1 tb Sample SEP Curing SEP Agent SEP Silica SEP Wollastonite SEP No. SEP 3 tb SEP Powder SEP Powder SEP Water SEP Glass tb SEP A SEP Sample SEP No. SEP 5 tb SEP 33 SEP parts SEP 10 SEP parts SEP 57 SEP parts SEP 80 SEP parts tb SEP B SEP Sample SEP No. SEP 10 tb SEP 33 SEP parts SEP 10 SEP parts SEP 57 SEP parts SEP 80 SEP parts tb SEP C tb for SEP 13.2 SEP parts SEP 29.8 SEP parts SEP 57 SEP parts SEP 80 SEP parts tb control tb Note The curing agents of the present invention and soda silicofluoride are different from each other with respect to the proper amount to be used. Thus, in the case of soda silicofluoride, powdery silica having a similar particle size is supplemented to obtain the same amount of powder for testing. Por bonding testing, alumina square cylinders of 10 mm x 10 mm x 20 mm are used as the test pieces. The bonding agents are applied to the 10 mm x 10 mm faces to a thickness of about 0.5 mm, and such faces are bonded together. The bonding strength is then measured according to the three point bonding test method.Referring to the bonding conditions, the test pieces applied with the bonding agents are allowed to stand for 1 day in a wet atmosphere, or alternatively are cured at 80 C by one hour treatment to measure the bonding strength. In addition, the test pieces axe immersed in water of 200C and 450C for a given period of time to measure the bonding strength for water resistance testing. The results of testing are set forth inTable 3. Table 3EMI17.1 SEP r SEP tb SEP Bonding SEP Strength SEP of SEP Products tb Sample SEP Bonding SEP Bonding SEP in wSe.r SEP 2 tb SEP Condition SEP Strength SEP Water SEP of SEP 450C SEP Water SEP of tb SEP Before tb SEP Testina SEP 5 hlP tb SEP kAf Cm SEP 24 SEP hr SEP 48 SEP hr SEP 2 SEP ,l daY tb SEP Ca tb SEP Placed SEP in SEP wet tb SEP Placed SEP in SEP wet SEP tb SEP C SEP stmosphere SEP ot SEP Zd SEP 40 tb control SEP 1 SEP day tb . SEP SEP . SEP ,, , tb SEP A tb SEP B SEP Heat treated SEP 120 SEP 80 SEP 80 SEP 80 SEP 80 tb SEP at SEP 800C SEP for tb SEP 1 SEP hr tb SEP C SEP 10d SEP 60 SEP 60 SEP 50 SEP 50 tb for tb cantrol SEP ,., SEP tb Prom the results of Table 3, it is evident that the use of the curing agents of the present invention gives bonding agents having strengths comparable to that of the bonding agent obtained using soda silicofluoride, and having more improved water resistance. In this test, Samples Nos. 5 and 10 of Table 1 are used as the curing agent However, it is understood that the use of other curing agents gives bonding agents having physical properties which are not appreciably different from those ot the foregoing bonding agents, when they are completely cured. Referring to the pot life of the bonding agents prepared using fillers in addition to water glass and the curing agents as in this example, it is close to the pot life shown in Table 1, provided that it is defined as being a period of time during which the bonding agents show flowability sufficient for workability.