# Toothpaste dispenser.

## Abstract
A dispenser for flowable materials such as toothpaste includes a hollow barrel 12 containing the material. A dispensing spout extends outwardly from the closed end of the barrel with a cap 26 removably mounted thereon. A plunger 18 is slidably mounted in the barrel in such a manner that the barrel may be pushed downwardly with respect to the plunger to cause the material to flow from the spout.

## Claims
Claims 1. A dispenser for a flowable material comprising a hollow rigid barrel containing a supply of the flowable material, said barrel having an open lower end and a closed upper end, a dispensing spout extending outwardly from said closed upper end and communicating with the interior of said barrel, a cap removably mounted on said dispensing spout for selectively opening and closing said dispensing spout a rigid plunger slidably mounted in said barrel, said plunger being longer than the length of the inside of said barrel whereby the lower end of said plunger is always extended outwardly from said barrel, the upper end of said plunger being a closed wall of a size and shape conforming to the inside peripheral surface of said barrel whereby said closed wall functions as a piston head when there is relative motion of said closed wall toward said dispensing spout to force said flowable material through said dispensing spout when said cap is removed therefrom, and stop means preventing said closed wall from being withdrawn from said barrel. 2. The dispenser of claim 1 wherein said plunger is longer than the length of the inside of said barrel whereby the lower end of said plunger is always extended outwardly from said barrel. 3. The dispenser of claim 2 wherein the lower end of said plunger is outwardly flared to facilitate said dispenser standing upright on said flared end and to permit the material to be dispensed when said barrel is moved in a downward direction. 4. The dispenser of claim 3 wherein said stop means comprises finger means extending inwardly from said open lower end of said barrel, said upper end of said plunger having an outwardly extending peripheral rim snapped over said finger means, and sealing means being provided on said peripheral rim. 5. The dispenser of claim 4 wherein said material is nonfood contents. 6. The dispenser of claim 5 wherein said material is toothpaste. 7. The dispenser of claim 6 wherein the outer surface of said closed upper end of said barrel has omamentation thereon whereby said dispenser may function as a toy after its contents have been fully dispensed. 8. The dispenser of claim 7 wherein said ornamentation is in the form of a face, and said cap comprising the nose of said face. 9. A method of dispensing a flowable material in a hollow rigid barrel having a closed upper end and an open lower end, snapping a plunger into the open lower end of the barrel, providing a dispensing spout in the closed upper end of the barrel, snapping a cap over the dispensing spout to temporarily close the dispensing spout, extending the dispenser on its end with the dispensing spout being uppermost and the lower end of the plunger resting on a support surface, removing the cap from the dispensing spout, pushing the barrel downwardly to cause a selected amount of material to be dispensed from the dispensing spout and snapping the cap back on the dispensing spout after the selected amount of material has been dispensed.

## Description
TOOTHPASTE DISPENSERBackground Of The Invention The present invention relates to a dispenser for flowable materials such as toothpaste. The conventional manner of dispensing toothpaste is to provide a tube wherein the remote end can be rolled or squeezed to force the toothpaste from the dispenser. Recently there has been a trend away from such conventional techniques such as by the utilization of rigid tubes with, for example, a pump device for effecting the dispensing operation. The invention in its broadest sense may be used for dispensing flowable materials other than toothpaste, prefer ably non food materials such as sap, creams and pharmaceuticals. Speciiic reference is made to U.S. Patent 4,356,935 Kamin which discloses a variation from conventional dispensers. The Kamin patent states that the dispenser is directed to the storing and dispensing of fluid foodstuff. In the Kamin dispenser a piston cylinder action is achieved wherein a sliding piston member is mounted within a tubular enclosure to force the contents from the tubular enclosure.The present invention is directed to variations of the Kamin teachings and is more specifically intended to be used with non food contents and preferably toothpaste.Summary Of The Invention An object of this invention is to provide a dispenser for flowable materials such as toothpaste which can be operated in a simple and convenient manner. A further object of this invention is to provide such a dispenser which can be economically mass produced due to its simple construction. A yet further object of the invention is to provide such a dispenser which effedvelAr dispenses substantially all of the contents thereof with minimum waste of the remaining contents. A still further object of this invention is to provide such a dispenser which would be particularly desirable for use by children and may function as a toy after the material has been dispensed. In accordance with this invention the dispenser includes a rigid sleeve or barrel having a dispensing spout at the closed end thereof. A cap selectively closes the spoutSlidably mounted within the dispenser is a rigid piston. In operation the cap is removed from the spout and the barrel may be pushed downwardly whereby the relative motion between the barrel and piston forces the material to flow through the spout The rigid materials used for making the dispenser reduce breakage and its attendant mess as with soft dispensers such as conventional tubes. In accordance with this invention the closed end of the barrel may have ornamentation thereon such as resembling a face to enhance its appeal to children. Such embodiment would encourage the use of the dispenser by the children and would permit the dispenser to be a toy after its contents have been fully expelled.The DrawingsFigure 1 is side elevation view of a dispenser in accordance with this invention Figure 2 is a top plan view of the dispenser of Figure 1 Figure 3 is a bottom plan view of the dispenser of Figure f, Figure 4 is a cross sectional view taken through Figure 2 along the line 44 andFigure 5 is a cross sectional view showing the dispenser during use.Detailed Description Figures 1 5 show a dispenser 10 in accordance with this invention. Dispenser 10 may be used for dispensing any flowable material and preferably non food contents such as cleaners, soaps, creams and pharmaceuticals or ointments. In the preferred embodiment, however, dispenser 10 is intended to dispense toothpaste, The dispensing of toothpaste particularly lends itself to be the contents of dispenser 10 since dispenser 10 is designed in such a manner as to particularly appeal to children. Thus parents would find that the use of dispenser 10 would particularly lend itself to a dental care program because the children would look forward to using dispenser 10. After all of the contents have been dispensed from dispenser 50, the dispenser could function as a toy. As best illustrated in Figures 4 and 5, dispenser 10 includes a rigid sleeve or barrel 12 of any suitable shape and preferably in the form of a hollow cylinder. Barrel 12 has a closed upper end 14 and is open at its lower end provided with a set of spring fingers 16. Slidably mounted within and extending from barrel 12 is a rigid piston 18 of a shape conforming to the shape of barrel 12. The upper end of piston 18 has a closed end which functions as a piston head 20. The lower end of piston 18 is outwardly flared about its periphery as indicated by the reference numeral 22. Flared end 22 provides stability whereby dispenser 10 may stand upright on the flared end 22. Piston or plunger 18 is preferably hollow to minimize manufacturing costs and complications. It is it be understood, however, that the invention may be broadly practiced with piston 18 being solid.Similarly although the flared end 22 is prefened, the flare may be omitted. Closed end 14 of barrel 12 includes a dispensing spout 24 which communicates with the interior of barrel 12. A cap 26 is removably mounted on dispensing spout 24. Piston head 20 includes a grooved peripheral wall 28 having a sealing gasket or O ring 30 snapped in the groove. The length of piston 18 along its cylindrical surface from the upper portion of flared end 22 to the lower edge of grooved rim or wall 28 is longer than the length of barrel 12 from the lower surface of upper end 14 to the upper surface of fingers 56. As a result piston head 20 would contact the lower edge of closed wall 14 before stop or finger 16 contact flared end 22 during relative movement of the piston and barrel. In the preferred embodiment of this invention, fingers 16 actually comprises four equally spaced fingers. Alternatively any number of fingers may be used. Piston 18 and barrel 12 may be made of any suitable materials such as known rigid plastic materials having sufficiently resiliency that piston head 20 may be snapped over fingers 16 and into barrel 12. Such assembly, however, would, of course, take place after the contents T Figure 5 have been placed into barrel 12. As shown in Figures 4 and 5, dispensing spout 24 is outwardly tapered and is provided with a peripheral groove 32 at any suitable location such as mid way of the length of dispensing spout 24. Cap 26 may take any suitable form such as being generally ball shaped with an intemal opening conforming to the outer surface of spout 24 as best shown in Figure 4 so that the cap 26 may be snapped off the dispenser spout As shown in Figure 2, upper wall 14 of barrel 12 is preferably provided with some ornamentation such as a happy face wherein cap 26 is the nose of the face. In the preferred operation of dispenser 10 the child would pull the nose of the happy face to remove cap 26 while dispenser 10 is in an upright position on its flared end 22. The child would then gently push downwardly either along the sides of barrel 12 as shown in Figure 5 or at the cheeks of the happy face so as to cause the toothpaste T to be dispensed from spout 24. Altematively the plunger can be pushed upwardly into the barrel 12. In such alternative piston 18 may be of shorter length than barrel 12. Because of the ornamentation of dispenser 10, the dispenser could be used as a toy after all of the contents have been dispensed. Thus the sides of dispenser may include other omamentations carrying out the theme of the ornamentation on upper face 14 and different ornamentations may be used to create a set of toys. A different ornamentation may at the same time distinguish between different types of contents such as regular, mint flavor, etc., types of toothpaste.