# Synthesis of 1 2 amino 2 phenylethyl 2 piperidinones.

## Abstract
Synthesis of 1 2 amino 2 phenylethyl 2 piperidinone and certain derivatives thereof, from 1 phenacyl 2 pyridone and certain derivatives thereof.

## Claims
What Is Claimed Is 1. A process which comprises the steps of a contacting hydroxylamine with a pyridone of the formulaEMI12.1 to form an oxime of the fomulaEMI12.2 and b reducing said oxime to form a piperidinone of the formulaEMI12.3 wherein R1 is H, lower alkyl, NO2, lower alkylamino, OH, lower alkoxy or halogen, and R2 is H, lower alkyl, NH2, lower alkylamino, OH, lower alkoxy or halogen, provided that 1 R2 is the same as R1 when R1 is not NO2, and 2 R2 is NH2 when R1 is NO2. 2. A process which comprises reducing an oxime of the formula EMI13.1 wherein R1 is defined as in Claim 1 to form a piperidinone of the formulaEMI13.2 wherein R2 is defined as in Claim 1. 3. A process as defined in Claim 1 wherein R1 and R2 are each H. 4. A process as defined in Claim 2 wherein R1 and R2 are each H. 5. A process as defined in Claim 1 wherein in step a there is an excess of hydroxylamine and the reaction is performed in an alcoholic solvent in the presence of a base at a temperature between 200C and the reflux temperature of the solvent and in step b the reaction is performed in the temperature range 200C to the boiling point of the solvent under the existing pressure conditions, at a hydrogen pressure of 1 10 atmospheres in the presence of an active noble metal catalyst.

## Description
Synthesis Of l 2 amino 2 phenylethyl 2 piperidinones Background of the Invention The present invention pertains to the synthesis of 1 2 amino 2 phenyiethyi 2 piperidinone and certain derivatives thereof, from 1 phenacyl 2 pyridone and certain derivatives thereof. In H. Mohrle et al, Arch. Pharmaz., 306 5 , 325 338 1973 a process is described for converting l phenacyl 2 pyridone to 1 2 amino 2 phenylethyl 2 piperidinone by employing three reaction steps. The present application for a patent describes a process for converting l phenacyl 2 pyridone to l 2 amino 2 phenylethyl 2 piperidinone b.y employing two reaction steps The reaction of l phenacyl 2pyridone with hydroxylamine hydrochloride to form 1 2 hydroxyimino 2 phenylethyl 2 pyridone, followed by hydrogenation of the latter compound to form l 2 amino 2 phenylethy 2 piperidinone. The first of these two reaction steps has been reported by E. S. Hand and W. W. Paudler, J. Org.Chem., volume 43, p. 658 663 1978 . To Applicants knowledge, the combination of the two reaction steps to prepare l 2 amino2 phenylethyl 2 piperidinone has not been reported. It will be evident, from the date disclosed here that the 2 step process which is the present invention results in a yield of 1 2 amino 2 phenylethyl 2 pyridone greater than that reported byH. Mohrle et al, for the 3 step process. Brief Summary of the Invention The invention is a process which comprises the steps of a contacting hydroxylamine with a pyridone of the formulaEMI2.1 to obtain an oxime of the formula, EMI3.1 and b reducing said oxime to form a piperidinone of the formulaEMI3.2 wherein R1 is H, lower alkyl, NO2, lower alkylamino, OH, lower alkoxy or halogen, and R2 is H, lower alkyl, NH2, lower alkylamino, OH, lower alkoxy, or halogen, provided that 1 R2 is the same as R1 when R1 is not NO2,and 2 R2 is NH2 when R1 is N02. The invention is also the process consisting of step b above. As used herein, the term lower alkyl refers to an alkyl group, straight or branched, containing four or less carbon atoms. A lower alkylamino group is one in which the alkyl moiety is straight or branched and contains four or less carbon atoms. A lower alkoxy group is straight or branched and contains four or less carbon atoms. Detailed Description 1 Formation of 1 2 hydroxyimino 2 phenylethyl 2 pyridone and derivatives thereof from l phenacyl 2 pyridone and derivatives thereof. The oxime, 1 2 hydroxyimino 2 phenylethyl 2 pyridone, or derivatives thereof in which a nuclear hydrogen of the phenyl moety is substituted with a lower alkyl, NH2, lower alkylamino, NO2, OH, lower alkoxy or a halogen, can be formed by reacting l phenacyl 2 pyridone or the corresponding derivative thereof, with an excess of hydroxylamine hydrochloride in an alcoholic solvent in the presence of a base at a temperature of at least 200C but preferably at the reflux temperature of the solvent. The cooled reaction is diluted with water to precipitate the oxime and the resulting solid is filtered off and dried.Suitable solvents are lower alcohols, preferably methanol, ethanol and propanol. Suitable bases are pyridine, sodium acetate and the like. When pyridine is used, a molar excess of 5 30 of pyridine and hydroxylamine hydrochloride are preferred. The oximes produced are mixtures of their syn and anti forms It is not necessary to separate the isomers since both of them afford the same product upon hydrogenation as described below. 2 Formation of 1 2 amino 2 phenylethyl 2 piperidinone and derivatives thereof rrom 1 2 hydroxyimino 2 phenylethyl 2 pyridone tand derivatives thereof. The piperidinone, I 1 2 amino 2 phenylethyl 2 piperidinone or derivatives thereof in which a nuclear hydrogen of the phenyl group is substituted with a lower alkyl, NH2, lower alkylamino,OH, lower alkoxy or a halogen, can be formed by hydrogenating 1 2 hydroxyimino 2 phenylethyl 2 pyridone or the correspondin derivative thereof over one of the more active noble metal catalysts, such as palladium or platinum, at a hydrogen pressure of 1 10 atmospheres and at ambient or higher temperatures until 4 molar equivalents of hydrogen are absorbed.Preferred reaction temperatures are in the range 200C to 800C, but higher temperatures up to the boiling point of the solvent under the existing pressure conditions can be used when that boiling point exceeds 80 C. In the range 200C to 8P C, the reaction rate has been found to increase with increasing temperature. If the hydrogenation is performed on the 1 2 hydroxyimino 2 phenylethyl 2 pyridone derivative in which a nuclear hydrogen of the phenyl group is substituted with NO2, the reaction will absorb an additional 3 molar equivalents of hydrogen and yield the l 2 amino 2phenylethyl 2 piperidinone derivative in which a nuclear hydrogen of the phenyl group is substituted with NH2. At 500C, the reaction requires 6 13 hours. The reaction may be run under neutral or acidic conditions equally well. It maybe run in protic or aprotic solvents. Protic solvents such as lower alcohols particularly methanol, ethanol or propanol are preferred and the acid is preferably hydrochloric acid although other inorganic acids can be used. On completion of hydrogen absorption, the catalyst is removed by filtration subsequent evaporation of the filtrate affords the piperidinone. Under acidic conditions, the amine salt of the piperidinone is obtained and the base may be recovered by neutralization with an aqueous organic base and subsequent extraction of the amine into an organic solvent such as chloroform, methylene chloride, toluene or diethylether. Illustrative Examples Example 1 Synthesis of 1 2 hydroxyimino 2 phenylethyli 2 pyridone First Example To a stirred mixture of 11.6 g 0.054 mol of l phenacyl 2 pyridone, 4.8 g 0.069 mol of hydroxylamine hydrochloride and 50 ml of absolute ethanol was added 5.6 ml 0.069 mol of pyridine. The mixture was refluxed about 78 C with stirring for 1.5 hrs. at which point thin layer chromatography indicated that the reaction was complete. The reaction mixture was cooled and, when crystallization began, 75 ml of H2O was added. Stirring was continued for 1 hr. The product was isolated by filtration and washed with 30 ml of 30 ethanol and then with H20. The product was air dried to yield 10.2 g 82 of the title compound, mp 162 1700C. Example 2 Synthesis of 1 2 hydroxyimino 2 phenylethyl 2 pyridone Second Example To l phenacyl 2 pyridone 634.4 g, 2.97 mol partially dissolved in 7.41 of absolute ethanol was added hydroxylamine hydrochloride 518.7 g, 7.46 mol followed by 1.5 liters of pyridine. The clear, nearly colorless solution was heated at reflux for 2 hrs., allowed to cool to room temperature and the solvents were removed under reduced pressure. The residual light brown paste was stirred with 6.25 liters of ice H2O and the resulting off white solid was filtered off, washed well with cold water and dried in vacuo the yield of off white crystals was 595.8 g 87.9 , mp 172 1740C. Example 3 Synthesis of 1 2 amino 2 phenylethyl 2 piperidinone A Paar hydrogenation apparatus was charged with 6 g 0.262 mol of l 2 hydroxyimino 2 phenylethyl 2 pyridone synthesized by the method of Example 1 , 40 ml of methanol and 0.6 g of 5 palladium on carbon catalyst. The mixture was hydrogenated under 4.45 bar of hydrogen while maintaining the reaction mixture at 500C. Hydrogen uptake was complete within 6 hrs. The catalyst was filtered off and the solvent was removed under reduced pressure. The residual oil solidified readily to give the title compound, as evidenced by thin layer chromatography, in a yield of 5.68g 100 , mp 72 73.50C n hexane . Synthesis of Substituted Compounds The synthesis of 1 2 amino 2 phenylethyl 2 piperidinone derivatives in which a nuclear hydrogen of the phenyl moiety is substituted with.a lower alkyl, NH2, lower alkylamino, OH, lower alkoxy, or halogen, can be formed by appropriate substitution of reagents in Examples 1, 2 and 3.For example, in either Example I or Example 2, following essentially the same procedure but substituting, 1 p methylphenacyl 2 pyridone, I p chlorophenacyl 2 pyridone, l p nitrophenacyl 2 pyridone, l p methoxyphenacyl 2 pyridone, I o methoxyphenacyl 2 pyridone, 1 m methoxyphenacyl 2 pyridone, l m ethylaminiphenacyl 2 pyridone, l m hydroxyphenacyl 2 pyridone and l m aminophenacyl 2 pyridone, for the l phenacyl 2 pyridone results in the formation of the following compounds respectively, 1 2 hydroxyimino 2 p methylphenyl ethyl 2 pyridone, 1 2 hydroxyimino 2 p chlorophenyl ethyl 2 pyridone, 1 2 hydroxyimino 2 p nitropheny l ethyll 2 pyrídone, 1 2 hydroxyimino 2 p methoxyphenyl ethyl3 2 pyridone, 1 2 hydroxyimino 2 o metboxyphenyl ethylj 2 pyridone, 1 2 hydroxyimino 2 m methoxyphenyl ethyl 2 pyridone, 1 2 hydroxyimino 2 m methylamino phenyllethyl 2 pyridone, 1 2 hydroxyimino 2 m hydroxyphenyl ethyll 2 pyridone, and l 2 hydroxyimino 2 m aminophenyl ethyl 2 pyridone. In Example 3, following essentially the same procedure but substituting, 1 2 hydroxyimino 2 p methylphenyl ethyl 2 pyridone, 1 12 hydroxyimino 2 p chlorophenyl ethyl 2 pyridone, 1 2 hydroxyimino 2 p nitrophenyl ethyl 2 pyridone l 2 hydroxyimino 2 p methoxyphenyl ethyl 2 pyridone, 1 2 hydroxyimino 2 o methoxypheny1 ethyl 2 pyridone, 1 2 hydroxyimino 2 m methoxyphenyl ethyl 2 pyridone, 1 2 hydroxyimino 2 m methylamino phenyl ethyl 2 pyridone, 1 2 hydroxyimino 2 m hydroxyphenyl ethyl 2 pyridone, and 1 2 hydroxyimino 2 m aminophenyl ethyl i 2 pyridone for the l 2 hydroxyimino 2 phenylethyl 2 pyridone results in the formation of the following compounds respectively, 1 2 amino 2 p methylphenyl ethyl 2 piperidinone, l 2 amino 2 p chlorophenyl ethyl 2 piperidinone, 1 2 amino 2 p aminophenyl ethyl 2 piperidinone, 1 2 amino 2 p methoxyphenyl ethyl 2 piperidinone, 1 2 amino 2 o methoxyphenyl ethyl 2 piperidinone, 1 2 amino 2 m methoxyphenyl ethyl 2 piperidinone, 1 2 amino 2 lm methylamino phenyl ethyl 2 piperidinone, 1 2 dmino 2 m hydroxyphenyl ethyl 2 piperidinone, and 1 2 amino 2 o aminophenyl ethyl 2 piperidinone. Utility The processes of this invention can be used to synthesize l 2 aniino 2 phenylethyl 2 piperidinone and derivatives thereof, which are useful as intermediates in the synthesis of 8 substituted 2,3,5,6,7,8 hexahydro 2 phenyl imidazotl,2 alpyridine hydrochloride and derivatives thereof, compounds which have been disclosed in U.S. patent application number 518,514, of T. A. Davidson et al, filed on July 29, 1983, Notice of Allowance mailed on Octover 22, 1984, Issue Fee paid on January 3, 19851 as having immunomodulatory and related activities. The synthesis of 8 substituted 2,3,5,6,7,8 hexahydro 2 phenylimidazo 1,2 a pyridine or derivatives thereof can be accomplished by converting l 2 amino 2 phenylethyl 2 piperidinone or derivatives thereof as defined in the present invention to 2,3,5,6,7,8 hexahydro 2 phenylimidazo 1,2 a pyridine or derivatives thereof and then, by the procedures of U.S. Application 518514, converting that pyridine to an 8 substituted 2,3,5,6,7,8 hexahydro 2 phenylimidazo 1,2 a pyridine or derivative thereof .The conversion of 1 2 amino 2 phenylethyl 2 piperidone to 2,3,5,6,7,8 hexahydro 2 phenylimidazofl,2 a pyridine has been accomplished by Applicant by the following procedure, similar but not identical to that of Mohrle et al To 283.8 g 1.3 mol of 1 2 amino 2 phenylethyl 2 piperidinone dissolved in 2.7 liter of xylene was added 3.26 g of p toluenesulfonic acid, and the solution was heated at reflux using a Dean Stark Trap for the removal of H2O as it was formed. After 4 hours the solution was allowed to cool and the solvent was evaporated off at reduced pressure. The residual oil was kugelrohr distilled bath temp. 135 1700C 0.1 mm to afford 223.9 g 86 of the bicyclic amidine as a nearly colorless oil which solidified on standing. In another modification of this reaction the xylene solution is washed with water to remove the p toluenesulfonic acid and then evaporated to give the product as an oil which can be used in subsequent reactions without purification.3