# Amino acid derivatives and use thereof for the preparation of an anticonvulsant.

## Abstract
The present invention relates to anticonvulsant com pounds useful in the treatment of epilepsy and other central nervous system disorders. The compounds of this invention have the following general formula The present compounds can be employed for preparing compositions to be used as anticonvulsant pharmaceuticals.

## Claims
WE CLAIM 1. A compound having the general formula EMI29.1 wherein R and Rl, independently, are lower alkyl, aryl lower alkyl or phenyl, unsubstituted or substituted with at least one electron withdrawing substituent or at least one electron donating substituent R2 and R3, independently, are hydrogen, lower alkyl, aryl lower alkyl or phenyl, unsubstituted or substituted with at least one electron withdrawing substituent or at least one electron donating substituent n is 1 to 4 and the pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof. 2. The compound of Claim 1 wherein R, R1, R2 and R3, independently, are methyl, ethyl, propyl, isopropyl, butylj irsobutyl, tertiary butyl, benzyl, phenethyl, phéngropyl, phenisopropyl, phenbutyl, diphenylmethyl, l,l diphenylethyl or 1,2 diphenylethyl. 3. The compound of Claim 1 or 2 wherein said electroh withdrawing substitúent is halo, nitro, acyl, carboxyl, carboalkoxy, carboxamide, cyano, thiol, sulfide, disulfide, heterocyclic or guanidine. 4. The compound of Claim 1 or 2 wherein said electron donating substituent is alkoxy, alkyl, amino or phénoxy. 5. The compound of Claim 1 or 2 wherein R is benzyl, R1 is methyl, R2 is hydrogen, R3 is methyl and n is 1. 6. A compound according to claim 1 or 2 which is one of the following N acetyl alanine N benzylamide N acetyl phenylglycine N benzylamide N acetyl glycine N henzylamide N acetyl valine N benzylamide N t butyl acetyl alanine N benzylamide N acetyl methionine N benzylamide N acetyl alanine N 3 fluoro ben2ylamide. N acetyl alanine N 3 methoxy benzylamide. 7. The compound of Claim 1 or 2 wherein R is benzyl, R1 is methyl, R2 is hydrogen, R3 is phenyl and n is 1. 8 The compound of Claim 1 or 2 wherein R is benzyl, R1 is methyl, R2 and R3 are hydrogen and n is 1. 9. The compound of Claim 1 or 2 wherein R is benzyl, R1 is methyl, R2 is hydrogen, R3 is isopropyl and n is 1. 10. The compound of Claim 1 or 2 wherein R is benzyl, R1 is t butyl, R2 is hydrogen, R3 is methyl and n is 1. 11. The compound of Claim 1 or 2 wherein R is benzyl, R1 is methyl, R2 is hydrogen, R3 is methionine and n is 1. 12. The compound of Claim 1 or 2 wherein R is fluoro benzyl, , R1 is methyl, R2 is hydrogen, R3 is methyl and n is 1. 13. The compound of Claim 1 or 2 wherein R is methoxy benzyl, R1 is methyl, R2 is hydrogen, R3 is methyl and n is 1. 14. The compound of claims 1 13 in the D isomerL isomer or D,L racemate form. 15. An anticonvulsant composition comprising a compound of any of claims 1 14, and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier. 16. The use of a compound having the following general formula EMI31.1 wherein R and Rl, independently, are lower alkyl, aryl lower alkyl or phenyl, unsubstituted or substituted with at least one electron withdrawing substituent qr at least one electron donating substituent R2 and R3, independently, are hydrogen, lower alkyl, aryl lower alkyl or phenyl, unsubstituted or substituted with at least one electron withdrawing substituent or at least one electron donating substituent n is 1 to 4 and the pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof, for the preparation of a composition for treating epilepsy, nervous anxiety, psychosis, insomnia and related nervous disorders. CLAIMS FOR AUSTRIA 1. A process for the preparation of a compound ofFormula I which comprises reacting an amine of Formula II with an acylating derivative of Formula III under amide forming conditions and optionally removing protecting groups when present and optionally introducing substituents into the compounds by substitution or conversion reactions and optionally forming pharmaceutically acceptable salts of said compounds. 2. The process of Claim 1 wherein the acylating derivative isEMI33.1 3. The process of Claims 1 or 2 wherein R, R1, R2 and R3 are independently methyl, ethyl, propyl, isopropyl, butyl, isobutyl, tertiary butyl, benzyl, phenethyl, phenpropyl, phenisopropyl, phenbutyl, diphenylmethyl, l,l diphenylethyl or 1, 2 diphenylethyl. 4. The process of Claims 1 3 wherein R, R1, R2 andR3 are independently substituted with an electron withdrawing substitutent. 5. The process of Claims 1 4 wherein said electron withdrawing substituent is halo, nitro, acyl, carboxy, carbalkoxy, carboxamide, cyano, thiol, sulfide, disulfide, heterocyclic or guanidine. 6. The process of Claims 1 3 wherein R, R1 R2 and are independently substitued with an electron donating substituent 7. The process of Claims 1 3 and 6 wherein said electron donating substituent is alkoxy, alkyl, amino or phenoxy. 8. The process of Claims 1 7 wherein R is benzyi,R1 is methyl, R2 is hydrogen, R3 is methyl and n is 1. 9. The process of Claims l or 2 wherein the compound formed is N acetyl alanine N benzylamide. 10. The process of Claims 1 7 wherein R is benzyl, 21 is methyl, R2 is hydrogen, R3 is phenyl and n is 1. 11. The process of Claims 1 or 2 wherein the compound formed is acetyl phenylglycine N benzylamide 12. The process of Claims 1 7 wherein R is benzyl,R1 is methyl, R2 and R3 are hydrogen and n is 1. 13. The process of Claims 1 or 2 wherein the compound formed is N acetyl glycine N1 benzylamde. 14, The process of Claims 1 7 wherein R is benzyl,R1 is methyl, R2 is hydrogen, R3 is isopropyl and n Xs 1. 15. The process of Claims I or 2 wherein the compound formed is N acetyl valine N benzylamide. 16. The process of Claims 1 7 wherein R is benzyl,R1 is t butyl, R2 is hydrogen, R3 is methyl and n is 1. 17. The process of Claims 1 or 2 wherein the compound formed is N t butyl acetyl alanine N benzylamide. 18. The process of Claims i 7 wherein R is benzyl, is is methyl, R2 is hydrogen, R3 is methicnine and n is 1. 19. The process of Claims 1 or 2 wherein the compound formed is N acetyl methionine N benzylamide 20. The process of Claims 1 7 wherein R is flucrobenzyl, R1 is methyl, R2 is hydrogen, R3 is methyl and n is 1. 21. The process of Claims I or 2 wherein the compound formed is N acetyl alanine N 3 fluoro benzylamide. 22. The process of Claims 1 7 wherein R is methoxybezyl, R1 is methyl, R2 is hydrogen, R3 is methyl and n is 1. 23. The process of Claims 1 or 2 wherein the compound formed is N acetyl alanine Nt 3 methoxy benzylamide. 24. The process of Claims 1 23 wherein the compound formed is in the D isomer, L isomer or D,L racemate form. 25. The use of a compound having the following general formula EMI35.1 wherein R and R1, independently, are lower alkyl, aryl lower alkyl or phenyl, unsubstituted or substituted with at least one electron withdrawing substituent or at least one electron donating substituent R2 and R3, independently, are hydrogen, lower alkyl, aryl lower alkyl or phenyl, unsubstituted or substituted with at least one electron withdrawing substituent or at least one electron donating substituent n is 1 to 4 and the pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof, for the preparation of a composition for treating epilepsy, nervous anxiety, psychosis, insomnia and related nervous disorders.

## Description
AMINO ACID DERIVATES AND USE THEREOF FOR THE PREPARATION OF AN ANTICONVULSANT The present invention relates to compounds useful in the treatment of epilepsy and other central nervous system disorders. More specifically, the compounds of this invention can be characterized as protected amino acid derivatives having the following general formula EMI1.1 wherein R and R1, independently, are lower alkyl., aryl lower alkyl or phenyl, unsubstituted or substituted with at least one substituent R2 and R3, independently, are hydrogen, lower alkyl, aryl lower alkyl or phenyl, unsubstituted or substituted with at least one substituent and n is 1 to 4. The predominant application of anticonvulsant drugs is the control and prevention of seizures associated with epilepsy or related central nervous system disorders.Epilepsy refers to many types of recurrent seizures produced by paroxysmal excessive neuronal discharges in the brain the two main generalized seizures are petit mal, which is associated with myoclonic jerks, akinetic seizures, transient loss of consciousness, but without convulsion and grand mal which manifests itself in a continuous series of seizures and convulsions with loss of consciousness. The mainstay of treatment for such disorders has been the long term and consistent administration of anticonvulsant drugs. Most drugs in use are weak acids that, presumably, exert their action on neurons, glial cells or both of the central nervous system. The majority of these compounds are characterized by the presence of at least one amide unit and one or more benzene rings that are present as a phenyl group or part of a cyclic system. Much attention has been focused upon the development of anticonvulsant drugs and today many such drugs are well known. For example, the hydantoins, such as phenytoin, are useful in the control of generalized seizures and all forms of partial seizures. The oxazolidinediones, such as trimethadioe and paramethadione, are used in the treatment of nonconvulsive seizures. Phenacemide, a phenyl acetylurea, is one of the most well known anticonvulsants employed today, although much attention has recently been dedicated to the investigation of the diazepines and piperazines. For example, U.S. Patent Nos. 4,002,764 and 4,178,378 to Allgeier, et al. disclose esterified diazepine derivatives useful in the treatment of epilepsy and other nervous disorders. U.S.Patent No. 3,887,543 to Nakanishi, at al. describes a thieno t2,3 eltl,4 diazepine compound also having anticonvulsant activity and other depressant activity. U.S. Patent No. 4,209,516 to Heckendorn, et al.relates to triazole derivatives which exhibit anticonvulsant activity and are useful in the treatment of epilepsy and conditions of tension and agitation. Finally, U.S. PatentNo. 4,372,974 to Fish, et al. discloses a pharmaceutical formulation containing an aliphatic amino acid compound in which the carboxylic acid and primary amino are separated by three or four units. Administration of these compounds in an acid pH range are useful in the treatment of convulsion disorders and also possess anxiolytic and sedative properties. Unfortunately, despite the many available pharmacotherapeutic agents, a significant percentage of the population with epilepsy or related disorders are poorly managed. Moreover, none of the drugs presently available are capable of achieving total seizure control and most have disturbing side effects. Clearly, current therapy has failed to seize control of these debilitating diseases. It is therefore one object of the present invention to provide novel compounds exhibiting anticonvulsant activity. Another object of this invention is to provide pharmaceutical compositions useful in the treatment of epilepsy and other central nervous system disorders. A further object of this invention is to provide a method of treating epilepsy and related convulsant disorders. These and other objects are accomplished herein by providing compounds of the following general formula EMI3.1 wherein R and R1, independently, are lower alkyl, aryl lower alkyl or phenyl, unsubstituted or substituted with at least one substituent R2 and R3, independently, are hydrogen, lower alkyl, aryl lower alkyl or phenyl, unsubstituted or substituted with at least one substituent and n is 1 to 4. The present invention contemplates employing the above compounds in compositions of pharmaceutically acceptable dosage forms. Where the appropriate substituents are employed, the present invention also includes pharmaceutically acceptable addition salts. Moreover, the administration of an effective amount of the present compounds, in their pharmaceutically acceptable forms or the addition salts thereof, can provide an excellent regime for the treament of epilepsy, nervous anxiety, psychosis, insomnia and other related central nervous system disorders. In accordance with the present invention, anticonvulsant compounds are provided having the general formulaI. These compounds can be incorporated into pharmaceutical compositions and employed for the treatment of epilepsy and related central nervous system disorders such as anxiety, psychosis and insomnia. The alkyl groups exemplary of the substituents are lower alkyl containing from 1 to 6 carbon atoms and may be straight chain or branched. These groups include methyl, ethyl, propyl, isopropyl, butyl, isobutyl, tertiary butyl, amyl, hexyl, and the like. The aryl lower alkyl groups include, for example, benzyl, phenethyl, phenpropyl, phenisopropyl, phenbutyl, and the like, diphenylmethyl, 1, 1 diphenylethyl, 1,2 diphenylethyl, and the like. The phenyl and aryl alkyl groups, such as benzyl, may carry one or more substituents which can be characterized as either electron withdrawing groups such as halo, including bromo, fluoro, chloro, iodo, and the like, nitro, acyl, carboxyl, carboalkoxy, carboxamide, cyano, thiol, sulfide including methionine, disulfide, heterocyclic, guanidine, and the like or as electron donating groups such as alkoxy including methoxy, ethoxy, and the like, alkyl, amino, substituted amino, phenoxy, substituted phenoxy, and the like. Moreover, the present invention contemplates any combination of substituents selected from the above defined groups. The preferred compounds of the present invention are those where the aryl rings contain at least one electron withdrawing group or at least one electron donating group.The most preferred compounds of the present invention have the following general formula EMI5.1 wherein A is one to three substituents selected from the above defined groups. The alkyl groups of R2 and R3, including the alkyl portion of thearyl alkyl groups, may also be unsubstituted or substituted with one or more substituents which can be characterized as either electron withdrawing groups or electron donating groups as defined above. The preferred compounds of the present invention are those where n is 1 but di , tri and tetra peptides are acceptable. The compounds of the present invention may contain one 1 or more asymmetric carbon atoms and may exist in racemic and optically active forms. Depending upon the substituents, the present compounds may form addition salts as well. All of these forms are contemplated to be within the scope of this invention. The compounds of the present invention can be prepared by art recognized procedures from known compounds or readily preparable intermediates. For instance, compounds ofFormula I can be prepared by reacting amines of Formula II with an acylating derivative of a carboxylic acid of Formula III under amide forming conditions EMI6.1 wherein R, R1, R2, R3 are as defined hereinabove. The amide forming conditions referred to herein involve the use of known derivatives of the described acids, such as the acyihalides, e.g.,EMI6.2 wherein X is C1, Br, and the like, anhydrides e.g.,EMI6.3 mixed anhydrides, lower alkyl esters, ccrbodiimides, carbonyldimidazoles, and the like. It is preferred that the acylating derivative used is the anhydride,EMI6.4 As in any organic reaction, solvents can be employed such as methanol, ethanol, propanol, acetone, tetrahydrofuran, dioxane, dimethylformamide, dichloromethane, chloroform, and the like. The reaction is normally effected at cr near room temperature, although temperatures from OOC up to the reflux temperature of the reaction mixture can be employed. As a further convenience, the amide forming reaction can be effected in the presence of a base, such as tertiary organic amine, e,g., trirnethylamine, pyridine, picolines and the like, particularly where hydrogen halide is formed by the amide forming reaction, e.g., aryl halide and the amine of Formula II. Of course, in those reactions where hydrogen halide is produced, any of the commonly used hydrogen halide acceptors can also be used. The various substituents on the present new compounds, e.g., as defined in R, Rl, R2 and R3 can be present in the starting compounds, added to any one of the intermediates or added after formation of the final products by the known methods of substitution or conversion reactions.For example, the nitro groups can be added to the aromatiC ring by nitration and the nitro group converted to other groups, such as amino by reduction, and halo by diazotization of the amino group and replacement cf the diazo group Alkanoyl groups can be substituted onto the aryl groups byFriedel Crafts acylation, The acyl groups can be then transformed to the corresponding alkyl groups by various methods, include the Wolff Kishner reduction and Clemm..enson reduction. Amino groups can be alkylated to form mono and dialkylamino groups and m.ercapto and hydroxy groups can be alkylated to form corresponding ethers.Primary alcohols can be oxidized by oxidizing agents known in the art to form carboxylic acids or aldehydes, and secondary alcohols can be oxidized to form ketones. Thus, substitution or alteration reactions can be employed to provide a variety of substituents throughout the molecule of the tarting material, intermediates, or the final product. In the above reactions, if the substituents themselves are reactive, then the substituents can themselves be protected according to the techniques known in the art. A variety of protecting groups known in the art may be employed. Examples of many of these possible groups may be found in Protective Groups in Organic Synthesis, by T.W.Green, John Wiley Sons, 1981. The present compounds obviously exist in stereoisomeric forms and the products obtained thus can be mixtures of the isomers, which can be resolved. Alternatively, by selection of specific isomers as starting compounds, the preferred stereoisomet can be produced. The active ingredients of the therapeutic compositions and the compounds of the present invention exhibit excellent anticonvulsant activity when administered in amounts ranging from about 10 mg to about 100 mg per kilogram of body weight per day. A referred dosage regimen for optimum results would be from about 20 mg tooabout 50 mg per kilogram of body weight per day, and such dosage units are employed that a total of from about 1.0 gram to about 3.0 grams of the active compound for a subject of about 70 kg of body weight are administered in a 24four period. This dosage regimen may be adjusted to provide the optimum therapeutic response and is preferably administered three times a day in dosages of about 600 mg per administration.For example, several divided doses may be administered daily or the dose may be proportionally reduced as indicated by the exigencies of the therapeutic situation. A decided practical advantage is that the active compound may be administered in an convenient manner such as by the oral, intraveneous where water soluble , intramuscular or subcutaneous routes. The active compound may be orally administered, for example, with an inert diluent or with an assimilable edible carrier, or it may be enclosed in hard or soft shell gelatin capsule, or it may be compressed into tablets, or it may be incorporated directly with the food of the diet. For oral therapeutic administration, the active compound may be incorporated with excipients and used in the form of ingestible tablets, buccal tablets, troches, capsules, elixirs, suspensions, syrups, wafers, and the like, Such compositions and preparations should contain at least 1t of active compound. The percentage of the compositions and preparations may, of course, be varied and may conveniently be between about 5 to about 80 ot the weight of the unit. The amount of active compound in such therapeutically useful compositions is such that a suitable dosage ill be obtained,Preferred compositions or preparations according to the present invention are prepared so that an oral dosage unit form contains between about 5 and 1000 mg of active compound. The tablets, troches, pills, capsules and the like may also contain the following A binder such as gum tragacanth, acacia, corn starch or gelatin excipients such as dicalcium phosphate a disintegrating agent such as corn starch, potato starch, alginic acid and the like a lubricant such as magnesium stearate and a sweetening agent such as sucrose, lactose or saccharin may be added or a flavoring agent such as peppermint, oil of wintergreen, or cherry flavoring. When the dosage unit form is a capsule, it may contain, in addition to materials of the above type, a liquid carrier. various other materials may be present as coatings or to otherwise modify the physical form of the dosage unit.For instance, tablets, pills, or capsules may be coated with shellac, sugar or both. A syrup or elixir may contain the active compound, sucrose as a sweetening agent, methyl and propylparabens as preservatives, a dye and flavoring such as cherry or orange flavor. Of course, any material used in preparing any dosage unit form should be pharmaceutically pure and substantially non toxic in the amounts employed. In addition, the active compound may be incorporated into sustained release preparations and formulations. The active compound may also be administered parenterally or intraperitoneally. Dispersions can also be prepared in glycerol, liquid polyethylene glycols, and mixtures thereof and in oils. Under ordinary conditions of storage and use, these preparations contain a preservative to prevent the growth of microorganisms. The pharmaceutical forms suitable for injectable use include sterile aqueous solutions where water soluble or dispersions and sterile powders for the extemporaneous preparation of sterile injectable solutions or dispersions. In all cases the form must be sterile and must be fluid to the extent that easy syringability exists. It must be stable under the conditions of manufacture and storage and must be preserved against the contaminating action of microorganisms such as bacteria and fungi. The carrier can be a solvent or dispersion medium containing, for example, water, ethanol, polyol for example, glycerol, propylene glycol, and liquid polyethylene glycol, and the like , suitable mixtures thereof, and vegetable oils. The proper fluidity can be maintained, for example, by the use of a coating such as lecithin, by the maintenance of the required particle size in the case of dispersion and by the use of surfactants.The prevention of the action of microorganisms can be brought about by various antibacterial and antifungal agents, for example, parabens, chlorobutanol, phenol, sorbic acid, thimerosal, and the like. In many cases, it will be preferable to include isotonic agents, for example, sugars or sodium chloride. Prolonged absorption of the injectable compositions can be brought about by the use in the compositions of agents delaying absorption, for example, aluminum monostearate and gelatin. Sterile injectable solutions are prepared by incorporating the active compound in the required amount in the appropriate solvent with various of the other ingredients enumerated above, as required, followed by filtered sterilization. Generally, dispersions are prepared by incorporating the various sterilized active ingredient into a sterile vehicle which contains the basic dispersion medium and the required other ingredients from those enumerated above. In the case of sterile powders for the preparation of sterile injectable solutions, the preferred methods of preparation are vacuum drying and the freeze drying tedhnique which yield a powder of the active ingredient plus any additional desired ingredient from previously sterilefiltered solution thereof. As used herein, pharmaceutically acceptable carrier includes any and all solvents, dispersion media, coatings, antibacterial and antifungal agents, isotonic and absorption delaying agents, and the like. The use of such media and agents for pharmaceutical active substances is well known in the art. Except insofar as any conventional media or agent is incompatible with the active ingredient, its use in the therapeutic compositions is contemplated.Supplementary active ingredients can also be incorporated into the compositions. It is especially advantageous to formulate parenteral compositions in dosage unit form for ease of administration and uniformity of dosage. Dosage unit form as used herein refers to physically discrete units suited as unitary dosages for the mammalian subjects to be treated each unit containing a predetermined quantity of active material calculated to produce the desired therapeutic effect in association with the required pharmaceutical carrier.The specification for the novel dosage unit forms of the invention are dictated by and directly dependent on a the unique characteristics of the active material and the particular therapeutic effect to be achieved, and b the limitations inherent in the art of compounding such an active material. for the treatment of disease in living subjects having a diseased condition in which bodily health is impaired as herein disclosed in detail. The principal active ingredient is compounded for convenient and effective administration in effective amounts with a suitable pharmaceutically acceptable carrier in dosage unit form as hereinbefore disclosed. A unit dosage form can, for example, contain the principal active compound in amounts ranging from about 5 to about 1000 mg, with from about 250 to about 750 mg being preferred. Expressed in proportions, the active compound is generally present in from about 10 to about 750 mg ml of carrier. In the case of compositions containing supplementary active ingredients, the dosages are determined by reference to the usual dose and manner of administration of the said ingredients. For a better understanding of the present invention together with other and further objects, reference is made to the following description and example. EXAMPLE I General Methods. Melting points were determined with a Thomas Hoover melting point apparatus and are uncorrected. Infrared spectra IR were run on a Bechman IR 4250 spectrophotometer and calibrated against the l 1601 cm 1 band of polystyrene. Absorption values are expressed in wave numbers cm . Proton nuclear magnetic resonance 1H NMR spectra were recorded on VarianAssociates Models T 60 and FT 80A NMR spectrometers. Carbon nuclear magnetic resonance C NMR spectra were run on aVarian Associates Models FT 80A instrument. Chemical shifts are in parts per million 8 values relative to Me4Si, and coupling constants J values are in hertz. Mass spectral data were obtained at an ionizing voltage of 70 eV on aHewlett Packard 5930 gas chromatograph mass spectrometer. High resolution EI mode mass spectra were performed by Dr.James Hudson at the Department of Chemistry, University ofTexas at Austin, on a CEC21 llOB double focusing magnetic sector spectrometer at 70 eV. Elemental analyses were obtained at Spang Microanalytical Laboratories, EagleHarbor, MI. The solvents and reactants were of the best commercial grade available and were used without further purification unless noted. All anhydrous reactions were run under nitrogen, and all glassware was dried before use. Preparation of N Acetyl D,L alanine N benzylamide. Acetic anhydride 2.20 g, 0.022 mol was slowly added to a methylene chloride solution 30 mL ofD,L alanine N benzylamide 3.80 g, 0.021 mol and allowed to stir at room temperature 3 h . The mixture was then successively washed with H20 15 mL , 1 aqueous NaOH 15 mL andH20 15 mL , dried Na2S04 and concentrated in vacuo.The residue was recrystallized from CH2C12.Yield 2.50 g 54 .mp 139 241 C. 1 NMR DMSO d6 9 1.22 d,J 7.1 Hz, 3H , 1.84 s, 3H , 4.04 4.50 m, 3H , 7.26 s, 5H , 8.11 br d,J 7.3 Hz, 1H , 8.42 br t,J 6 Hz, 1H .13C NMR DMSO d6 18.2, 22.4, 41.9, 48.2, 126.5, 126.9, 128.1, 139.4, 168.9, 172.4 ppm.IR CHC13 3440, 3300, 3005, 1660, 1515 cm . Mass spectrum Cl mode , m e 221 P 1 mol wt 220.1208 Calculated for C12H16N2O2, 220.1212 . Preparation of N Acetyl D ,L phenylglycine N methylamide. Acetic anhydride 2.90 g, 28 mmol was added dropwise to D,L phenylglycine N methylamide 3.4 g, 20 mmol and allowed to stir at room temperature 1.5 h . During this time, a copious white precipitate formed. This material was collected by filtration, dried in vacuo and recrystallized from absolute alcohol.Yield 2.00 g 49 . mp 232 2350C dec .1H NMR DMSO d6 1.89 s, 3H , 2.58 d,J 4.6 Hz, 3H , 5.42 d,J 8.1 Hz, 1H , 7.35 s, 5H , 8.18 br q,J 4.2 Hz, 1H , 8.47 d,J 8.1 Hz, 1H . 13C NMR DMSO d6 22.4, 25.5, 56.3, 127.1, 127.3, 128.1, 139.0, 168.9, 170.3 ppm.IR KBr 3310, 1645 cm 1 Mass spectrum CI mode , m e 207 P 1 . Anal. C11H14N202 C,H,N Preparation of N Acetylglycine N benzylamide. The D,L amino acid amide 11 mmol was dissolved in dichloromethane 15mL and then acetic anhydride 1.23 g, 1.40 mL, 12 mmol was added dropwise. The solution was stirred at room temperature 4 6 h and then concentrated to dryness. The residue was recrystallized from chloroform hexane.Yield 1.84 g 81 .mp 140 142 C. 1 NMR DMSO d6 6 1.88 s, 3H , 3.74 d,J 5.3 Hz, 2H , 4.30 d,J 5.1 Hz, 2H , 7.27 s, 5H , 8.37 s, 1H , 8.75 s, 1H .C NMR DMSO d6 22.5, 42.0, 42.5, 126.6, 127.1 2C , 128.1 2C , 139.3, 169.0, 169.6 ppm.IR KBr 3060, 1655, 1640, 1560, 1535, 1450, 1300, 740, 710 1 cm Mass spectrum, m e relative intensity 147 12 , 106 100 , 91 75 , 73 50 .Elemental analysis Calculated for C11H14N2O2 64.05 C 6.86 H 13.58 N. Found 64.03 C 6.79 H 13.61 N. Preparation of N Acetyl D,L valine N benzylamide. The D,L amino acid amide 11 mmol was dissolved in dichloromethane 15mL and then acetic anhydride 1.23 gr 1.40 mL, 12 mmol was added dropwise. The solution was stirred at room temperature 4 6 h and then concentrated to dryness. The residue was recrystallized from chloroform hexane.Yield 2.35 g 86 .mp 192 1930C. H NMR DMSO d6 SO.83 drJ 6.7 Hz, 6H , 1.87 Sr 3H , 1.73 2.09 m, 1H , 4.11 d,J 8.9 Hz, 1H , 4.27 d,J 5.9 Hz, 2H , 7.26 s, 5H , 7.89 d,J 8.8 Hz, IH , 8.84 t,J 5.8 Hz, 1H .13C NMR DMSO d6 18.1, 19.2, 22.4, 30.2, 41.9, 57.8, 126.6, 127.1 2C , 128.1 2C , 139.4, 169.2, 171.1 ppm.IR KBr 1620, 1540, 1530, 1450, 1380, 1290, 745, 690 cam 1 Mass spectrum, m e relative intensity 142 16 , 114 43 , 106 29 , 91 57 , 72 100 , 55 29 .Elemental analysis Calculated for C14H20N202 67.70 C 8.13 H 11.28 N. Found 67.58 C 8.05 H 11.10 N. Preparation of N Acetyl D,L phenylglycine N benzylamide The D,L amino acid amide 11 mmol was dissolved in dichloromethane 15mL and then acetic anhydride 1.23 g, 1.40 mL, 12 mmol was added dropwise. The solution was stirred at room temperature 4 6 h and then concentrated to dryness. The residue was recrystallized from chloroform hexane.Yield 2.05 g 66 .mp 202 203 C. H NMR DMSO d6 1.91 s, 3H , 4.27 d,J 5.6 Hz, 2H , 5.50 d,J 7.9 Hz, 1H , 7.21 s, 5H , 7.36 s, 5H , 8.38 8.86 m, 2H .13C NMR DMSO d6 22.3, 42.0, 56.3, 126.6 2C , 127.0, 127.1 2C , 127.4 2C , 128.1 2C , 138.9, 139.0, 168.9, 169.9 ppm.IR KBr 3020, 1655, 1580, 1530, 1450, 1265, 745, 690 cm 1 .Mass spectrum, m e relative intensity 283 20 , 264 21 , 149 100 , 131 20 , 118 34 , 106 92 , 91 70 , 79 56 , 77 54 , 65 45 , 51 37 .Elemental analysis Calculated for C17H13N202 72.31 C 6.44 H 9.92 N. Found 72.49 C 6.47 H 9.89 N. Preparation of N Acetyl D , L alanine N 3 methoxy benzylainide The D,L amino acid amide 11 mmol was dissolved in dichloromethane 15mL and then acetic anhydride 1.23 g, 1.40 mL, 12 mmol was added dropwise. The solution was stirred at room temperature 4 6 h and then concentrated to dryness. The residue was recrystallized from chloroform hexane. Yield 0.47 g 17 . mp 112 115 C. 1H NMR DMSO d6 1.23 d,J 7.1 Hz, 3Hl, 1.85 s, 3H , 3.73 s, 3H , 3.99 4.48 m, lH , 4.25 d,J 6.1 Hz, 2H , 6.58 7.35 m, 4H , 8.05 d,J 7.4 Hz, lH , 8.35 t,J 6.0 Hz, 1H .13C NMR DMSO d6 18.1, 22.5, 41.8, 48.3, 54.9, 112.2, 112.3, 119.0, 129.2, 141.0, 159.3, 169.0, 172.4 ppm.IR KBr 3270, 3065, 1625, 1580, 1450, 1260, 1150, 1095, 900, 775, 700, 690 cm l. Elemental analysis Calculated for C13H18N203 62.37 C 7.26 H 11.19 N. Found 62.29 C 7.13 H 11.08 N. Preparation of N Trimethylacetyl D,L alanine N benzylamide. D,L Alanine N benzylamide 2.45 g, 13.75 mmol was dissolved in dichloromethane 20 mL and isobutyric anhydride 2.17 g, 2.28 mL, 13.75 mmol was added dropwise. The solution was stirred at room temperature 1 h and then heated to reflux 18 h . After cooling to room temperature, the solution was concentrated to dryness and the solid residue was recrystallized from benzene petroleum ether 30 600C .Yield 1.37 g 40 .mp 123 1240C. H NMR DMSO d6 6 1.12 s, 9H , 1.27 d,J 7.1 Hz, 3H , 4.23 4.42 m, 1H , 4.31 d,J 5.4 Hz, 2H , 7.23 7.30 m, 5H , 7.38 d,J 7.4 Hz, 1H , 8.26 t,J 5.5 Hz, 1H . 13C NMR DMSO d6 18.1, 27.2 3C , 37.9, 42.0, 48.4, 126.6, 127.0 2C , 128.2 2C , 139.4, 172.5, 177.1 ppm.IR KBr 3300, 3035, 1645, 1530, 1455, 1250, 745, 695 cm 1. Elemental analysis Calculated for C15H22N202 68.66 C 8.47 H 10.68 N. Found 68.91 C 8.14 H 10.61 N. Preparation of N Acetyl D,L methionine N benzylamide N Acetyl D,L methionine 4.78 g, 25 mmol was combined with acetonitrile 75 mL and the mixture was placed into an ice salt water bath 5 C . Triethylamine 2.53 g, 3.48 mL, 25 mmol was added dropwise, followed by ethyl chloroformate 2.71 g, 2.39 mL, 25 mmol . All additions were done slowly so that the temperature of the mixture did not rise above OOC. The mixture was then stirred at 50C 20 min . Benzylamine 3.00 g, 3.06 mL, 28 mmol in acetonitrile 5 mL was added dropwise and the mixture was stirred at 50C 1 h and then room temperature 18 h . The mixture was filtered and a white precipitate was collected and dried in vacuo and identified as the desired product 1H NMR and 13C NMR analyses . The filtrate was concentrated in vacuo and the residue was combined with hot tetrahydrofuran 50 mL and cooled in the freezer 3 h , resulting in the formation of a white precipitate. The mixture was filtered and the precipitate was collected, dried in vacuo, and identified as triethylammonium hydrochloride lit. mp5 2540C . The latter filtrate containing tetrahydrofuran was concentrated in vacuo and the resulting residue was purified by flash column chromatography ethyl acetate . A white solid Rf 0.50, ethyl acetate was isolated and was 1 as the desired product ÚH NMR and 13 identified as the desired product 1H NMR and C NMR analyses . The two solids identified as N acetyl D,Lmethionine N benzylamide were combined and recrystallized from benzene petroleum ether 30 60 C . Yield 2.98 g 43 .mp 134 1350C. 1H NMR DMSO d6 1.69 1.94 m, 2H , 1.87 s, 3H , 2.02 s, 3H , 2.29 2.59 m, 2H , 4.10 4.53 m, 1H , 4.29 d,J 6.0 Hz, 2H , 7.26 s, SH , 8.12 d,J 8.5 Hz, 1H , 8.47 t,J 6.0 Hz, 1H .13C NMR DMSO d6 14.6, 22.5, 29.7, 31.8, 42.0, 52.0, 126.6, 127.0 2C , 128.2 2C , 139.4, 169.5, 171.4 ppm.IR KBr 3280, 1630, 1545, 1385, 1290, 750, 700 cm Elemental analysis Calculated for C14H20N2O2S 59.96 C 7.20 H 9.99 N. Found 60.02 C 7.14 H 9.918 N. Preparation of N Acetyl alanine N 3 fluoro benzylamide. N Acetyl alanine 3.28 g, 25 mmol was combined with acetonitrile 100 mL and the mixture was placed into an ice salt bath at 50C. Triethylamine 2.53 g, 3.5 mL, 25 mmol was added dropwise followed by the addition of ethyl chloroformate 2.71 g, 2.40 mL, 25 mmol . All additions were done slowly so that the temperature of the mixture did not rise above OOC. The mixture was then stirred at 50C for 20 minutes. 3 Fluoro benzylamine 3.58 g, 28 mmol, 5 mL and acetonitrile was added dropwise and was stirred at 50C for one hour and then at room temperature for 18 hours. The reaction became homogenous during this time interval. The solution was concentrated in vacuo and the residue was combined with hot tetrahydrofuran 100 mL and cooled in the freezer for 3 hours resulting in the formation of a white precipitate. The mixture was filtered and the precipitate was collected, dried in vacuo and identified as ethylammonium hydrochloride 3.51 g, mp 253 257 C . The filtrate was concentrated in vacuo and the resulting yellow solid was recrystallized from chloroform diethyl ether.Yield 3.22 g 54 . mp 120 121 C. E NMR DMSO d6 6 1.27 d,J 7.1 Hz, 3H , 1.90 s, H , 4.23 4.41 m, 1H , 4.33 d,J 6.1 Hzr 2H , 7.05 7.37 m, 4H , 8.19 d,J 7.1 Hz, 1H , 8.53 t,J 6.1 Hz, 13C NMR DMSO d6 17.9, 22.4, 41.5, 48.5, 113.3 dJ 24.4 Hz , 113.5 d,J 21.7 Hz , 122.8, 130.1 d,J 7.9 Hz , 142.4 d,J 7.4 Hz , 162.3 d,J 243.6 Hz , 169.6, 172.8.IR KBr 3280, 1645, 1545, 1450, 745, 680. Mass spectrum, m e relative intensity 238 18 , 151 22 , 124 49 , 114 47 , 109 100 , 87 76 , 72 27 Elemental analysis Calculated 68.40 C 6.30 H 11.76 N. Found 60.55 C 6.32 H 11.71 N. Pharmacology. The following compounds were tested for anticonvulsant activity using male Carworth Farms 1 mice N Acetyl D,L alanine N benzylamide N Acetyl D , L phenylglycine N methylamide N Acetylglycine N benzylamide N Acetyl D , L valine N benzy lamide N Acetyl D, L phenylglycine N benzylamide N Acetyl D,L alanine N 3 methoxy benzylamide N Trimethylacetyl D,L alanine N benzylamide N Acetyl D,L methionine N benzylamide N Acetyl alanine N 3 fluoro benzylamide The compound was given in four dose levels 30, 100, 300 and 600 mg and subsequently compared with phenytoin, mephenytoin and phenacemide see Table I . Seizures were then artificially induced by either electroshock or Pentylenetetrazole.Maximal electroshock seizures MES are elicited with a 60 cycle alternating current of 50 mA intensity 5 7 times that necessary to elicit minimal electroschock seizures delivered for 0.2 sec via corneal electrodes. A drop of 0.9 saline is instilled in the eye prior to application of the electrodes so as to prevent the death of the animal. Protection in this test is defined as the abolition of the hind limb tonic extension component of the seizure. The SubcutaneousPentylenetetrazole MetrazolR Seizure Threshold Test scMet entailed the administration of 85 mg kg of pentylenetetrazole as a 0.5 solution subcutaneously in the posterior midlife. This amount of pentylenetetrazole is expected to produce seizures in greater than 95 of mice. The animal is observed for 30 minutes. Protection is defined as the failure to observe even a threshold seizure a single episode of clonic spasms of at least 5 sec duration . The effects of the compounds on forced and spontaneous motor activity were evaluated in mice using the Rotorod Test Tox .The animal is placed own a one inch diameter knurled plastic rod rotating at 6 rpm after the administration of the drug.Normal mice can remain on a rod rotating at this speed indefinitely. Neurologic toxicity is defined as the failure of the animal to remain on the rod for one minute. The MES and sc Met Tests were conducted on single animals while four mice were utilized for the Tox Test. Table I includes an evaluation of the Median Effective Dose ED50 and the MedianToxic Dose TD50 of representative compounds. Mice were tested with varying doses of the anticonvulsant to define the limits of complete protection or toxicity and no protection or no toxicity , as well as three points in between these limits. The Median Effective Dose ED50 is defined as the dose which produced the desired endpoint in 50 of the animals. The Median Toxicity Dose TD50 is the dose which elicited evidence of minimal neurological toxicity in 50 of the animals. The animals exhibited no anticonvulsant activity at doses of 30 mg kg or less. More significantly, the dose effect behavior of N acetyl D,L alanine N benzylamide, the D and L isomers and N acetyl D,L phenylglycine N benzylamide was evaluated using the above described procedures by the administration of varying dose levels, treating normally eight mice at each dose. As indicated by Table I,N acetyl D,L alanine N benzylamide was shown to have even more potent anticonvulsant activity than phenacemide with the same approximate level of toxicity. TABLE I Comparative Median Effective Dosage Tox MES sc MetCompound TD50 mg kg ED50 mg kg ED50 mg kgN acetyl D ,L alanine N benzyl amide 454 77 unmeasurable 417 501 67 89 N acetyl D alanineN benzylamide 214 55 55 148 262 50 60 43 67 N acetyl L alanineN benzylamide 841 548 unmeasurable 691 594 463 741 N acetyl D,t phenylglycine N benzylamide 97 20 unmeasurable 80 118 17 24 phenytoin 66 10 not effective mephenytoin 154 61 31 phenacemide 421 87 116 337 549 74 100 71 150 95 confidence intervals Thus, while the invention has been described with reference to certain preferred embodiments, those skilled in the art will realize that changes and modifications may be made thereto without departing from the full and intended scope of the appended claims.