# Novel amide compound and herbicide comprising it.

## Abstract
An amide of ω 2,4 disubstituted phenoxy aliphatic carboxylic acid and ω aminoaliphatic carboxylic acid repre sented by the general formula 1 . The amide is used for controlling weeds by applying a herbicidally sufficient amount of the amide to the seeds, stalks, leaves or roots of plants to be controlled or to the locus where the plants are growing or the growth of said plants is anticipated.

## Claims
What is claimed is 1. a compound represented by the following general formula 1 EMI65.1 wherein X is C1 or CF3, Y is C1 or CH3, Z represents a divalent saturated or unsaturated aliphatic hydrocarbon group having not more than 4 carbon atoms, R1 represents a group selected from the class consisting of a hydrogen atom, saturated aliphatic hydrocarbon groups having not more than 4 carbon atoms, a phenyl group, a benzyl group, a beta methylthioethyl group, a hydroxymethyl group, an alpha hydroxyethyl group, a hydroxyphenylmethyl group, a mercapto methyl group and a benzylthiomethyl group, R2 represents the group OR3 or the group R4 N R5 R represents an aliphatic hydrocarbon group having not more than 15 carbon atoms which may be interrupted by an oxygen atom and may have a substituent, a phenyl group which may have a substituent or an ammoni um cation, R4 and R5 are identical or different and each represents a hydrogen atom, a saturated aliphatic hydrocarbon group having not more than 6 carbon atoms, or an alicyclic hydrocarbon group having 5 to 7 carbon atoms, or R4 and R5, taken together with the nitrogen atom to which they are bonded, may form a 5 to 7membered ring which may further contain a hetero atom,R6 represents a hydrogen atom or a saturated aliphatic hydrocarbon having not more than 4 carbon atoms or, taken together with R1, may form CH2CH2CH2 orEMI66.1 and n is 0, 1 or 2. 2. The compound of claim 1 wherein R2 in the formula represents the group OR and R3 represents an aliphatic hydrocarbon group having not more than 15 carbon atoms which may be interrupted by an oxygen atom and may have a substituent 3. The compound of claim 1 wherein in the formula,R2 is the group OR , and R3 is an unsubstituted aliphatic hydrocarbon group having not more than 15 carbon atoms, an aliphatic hydrocarbon group having not more than 15 carbon atoms and a phenyl or hydroxyl group as the substituent, or an unsubstituted aliphatic hydrocarbon group having not more than 10 carbon atoms and being interrupted by an oxygen atom. The compound of claim 1 wherein in the formula R2 is the group OR3, and R3 is a phenyl group, or a phenyl group substituted by a halogen or an alkyl group having 1 to 5 carbon atoms. 5, The compound of claim 1 wherein Z in the formula is CH2 , EMI66.2 CR2CH2CH2 , EMI66.3 CH CH , EMI66.4 EMI66.5 CH CH CH or CH CH CH CH . 6. The compound of claim 1 wherein Z in the formula ,is CH2 , EMI67.1 or CH2CH2CH2 . 7. The compound of claim 1 wherein R1 in the formula is selected from the class consisting of hydrogen, methyl, ethyl, n propyl, iso propyl, n butyl, iso butyl, sec butyl, tert butyl, phenyl, benzyl, beta methylthioethyl, hydroxymethyl, alpha hydroxyethyl, hydroxyphenylmethyl, mercaptomethyl and benzylthiomethyl. 8. The compound of claim 1 wherein R1 in the formula is hydrogen, methyl, ethyl, n propyl, iso propyl, n butyl, iso butyl, t butyl, phenyl, benzyl or beta methylthioethyl. 9. The e compound of claim 1 wherein in the formula, R4Rê is the group N R5 and R4 and R5 are identical or different and each represents hydrogen, methyl, ethyl. cyclopentyl, cyclohexyl or cycloheptyl. 10. The compound of claim 1 wherein R2 is the group R4 5 N R5 and R and R , taken together, form CH 4 CH2s5, EMI67.2 11. The compound of claim 1 wherein R6 represents hydrogen, methyl, ethyl, n propyl, iso propyl, n butyl, iso butyl or tert butyl, or taken together with R1, forms CH2CH2CH2 orEMI67.3 12. The compound of claim 1 wherein n is 0. 13. A herbicide comprising as an active ingredient the compound of formula 1 defined in claim 1. 14. The herbicide of claim 13 wherein the active ingredient is a compound of the following formula EMI68.1 wherein X, Y, Z, R6, R2, and n are as defined in formula 1 , and R11 represents a hydrogen atom or a saturated aliphatic hydrocarbon.group having not more than 4 carbon atoms. 15. The herbicide of claim 13 wherein the active ingredient is a compound represented by the formulaEMI68.2 wherein X, Y, Z, R6, R1 and n are defined in formula 1 , and R31 represents an aliphatic hydrocarbon group having not more than 15 carbon atoms which may be interrupted by an oxygen atom and may have a substituent. 16. The herbicide of claim 13 wherein the active ingredient is a compound represented by the following formulaEMI68.3 wherein Y and R1 are as defined in formula 1 , R31 is as defined in formula l c in claim 15, and Z1is CH2 or CH3 CH , 17. The herbicide of claim 13 wherein the active ingredient is a compound of the following formulaEMI68.4 wherein X, Y, Z, R6, R11 and R31 are as defined above. 18. The herbicide of claim 13 wherein the active ingredient is a compound of the following formulaEMI69.1 wherein X, Z1, R11 and R31 are as defined above. 19. The e herbicide of claim 13 wherein the active ingredient is a compound represented by the following formulaEMI69.2 wherein X, Y, Z, R6, R2 and n are as defined in formula 1 , and R12 is a phenyl, benzyl or hydroxyphenyl group. 20. The herbicide of claim 13 wherein the active ingredient is a compound represented by the following formulaEMI69.3 wherein X, Y, Z, R6, R1 and n are as defined above, and R32 represents an aliphatic hydrocarbon group having not more than 15 carbon atoms which may be interrupted by an oxygen atom and may have a substituent, or a phenyl group which may have a substituent. 21. The herbicide of claim 13 wherein the active ingredient is a compound represented by the following formulaEMI69.4 wherein Y, zl, R1 and R32 are as defined above. 22. The herbicide of claim 13 wherein the active ingredient is a compound represented by the following formula EMI70.1 wherein X, Y, Z, R6, R12, R32 and n are as defined in above. 23. The herbicide of claim 13 wherein the active ingredient is a compound represented by the following formulaEMI70.2 wherein Y, zl R12 and R32 are as defined above. 24. The herbicide of claim 13 which further comprises a carrier and or a surface active agent. 25. A method for controlling weeds, which comprises applying a herbicidally sufficient amount of the compound of formula 1 defined in claim 1 to the seeds, stalks, leaves or roots of plants to be controlled or to the locus where said plants are growing or the growth of said plants is anticipated. 26. The method of claim 25 wherein the amount of the compound of formula 1 applied is lOg to 20kg per hectare. 27. The method of claim 25 wherein the amount of the compound 1 is an amount sufficient to inhibit the growth of, or eradicate, the plants. 28. The method of claim 25 wherein a herbicidally sufficient amount of the compound of formula 1 is applied to the locus where plants to be controlled or their seeds and a useful plant or its seeds grow together or are likely to grow together, whereby the plants to be conrolled or their seeds are selectively inhibited in growth or eradicated. 29. The method of claim 25 wherein the compound of formula 1 is applied to the locus in which rice or corn as a useful plant is growing or which is to be used for the growth of the useful plant, in an amount sufficient to control undesired plants which are growing, or are likely to grow, in said locus.

## Description
This invention relates to a novel amide compound formed between a phenoxy aliphatic carboxylic acid and an aminocarboxylic acid and a herbicide comprising the amide as an active ingredient. It has been known that phenoxy aliphatic carboxylic acids have herbicidal activity. R. Pokorny first synthesized 2,4 dichlorophenoxyacetic acid J. Amer. Chem.Soc., Vol. 63, page 1768 1941 1. Later, its activity against plants was discovered, and its selective herbicidal activity was recognized Nature, Vol. 155, page 498 1945 3. The latter literature reference discloses that 2,4 dichlorophenoxyacetic acid sometimes referred to simply as 2,4 D hereinafter inhibits the growth of the roots of sugar beet and clover while having little effects of inhibiting the growth of wheat, and that in view of its different toxicity susceptibilities on different types of plant, 2,4 D is of practical importance. The synthesis of 2,4 D stimulated development of many phenoxy aliphatic carboxylic acids having similar skeletons and their derivatives, and some of them came into practical acceptance. The development of these phenoxy aliphatic carboxylic acids and their derivatives has been directed to the changing or modification of a the phenoxy group, b the aliphatic group, and c the carboxyl group.The changing or modification of the phenoxy group a includes, for example, the changing of the positions of bonding chlorine atoms or the number of chlorine atoms, the introduction of a methyl group or a chlorophenoxy group or a pyridyloxy group substituted by chloro or trifluoromethyl. The changing or modification of the aliphatic group b includes, for example, the conversion of the methylene group into an ethylene, ethylidene or tri methylene group. The changing or modification of the carboxyl group c includes, for example, the conversion of the carboxyl group into the group OS03Na, the group OH, the group COSC2H5 or the amide group. These prior research and delopment efforts will be specifically discussed below. Nature, 155, page 497 1954 describes that beta indoleacetic acid or alpha naphthylacetic acid in a dose of 275 g lOa does not wither oats, wheat, barley and rye, but withers charlock, yarrow and plantain. It further discloses that 2 ,4 D and 4 chloro 2 methylphenoxyacetic acid have stronger activity than alpha naphthylacetic acid, and that 4 chloro 2 methylphenoxyacetic acid inhibits the germination and growth of corn buttercup, fat hen, corn marigold and field poppy and in a dose of 110 g lOa withers charlock, corn buttercup and pennycress without harming cereals and oats. Nature, 155, page 500 1945 discloses that 4 chl or o 2 methylphenoxyacetic acid withers butter cup, horse tamil and creeping thistle, but not maize, stinging nettle and bracken. Botanical Gazette, 108, page 301 1947 describes the effects of various aryloxyacetic acids including 2,4 D by foliar treatment. Blue rose rice, barley, wheat, sugar beets, corn, buckwheat, clover, rape, radish and bean are used as crops, but the reference does not describe amides of aryloxyacetic acids. Agricultural and Food Chemistry, 4, page 690 1956 describes the physiological activities of amides of 2,4 dichlorophenoxy 2 propionic acid with alanine, aspartic acid, leucine, methionine, phenylalanine and threonine on useful crops such as corn, barley, cucumber, sunflower and soybean. Specifically, it states that while the alanine amide, leucine amide and threonine amide almost completely withered broad leaved crops such as soybean, sunflowr and cucumber and inhibited growth of narrow leaved plants such as barley and corn to some extent, the aspartic acid amide, methionine amide and phenylalanine amide showed little or no effect against broad leaved or narrow leaved crops. Agricultural and Food Chemistry, 7, page 118 1959 describes the effects of phenoxyacetic acids such as 2,4 D or phenoxypropionic acids such as 2,4 dichlorophenoxypropionic acid and the p toluenesulfonamides, p aminobenzamides and p aminosalicylamides of these parent compounds on useful crops such as corn, barley, cucumber, sunflower and soybean in foliar treatment. It specifically discloses that the activities of the p aminobenzamides and the p aminosalicylamides are equivalent to, or slightly lower than, those of the parent compounds. Journal of Organic Chemistry, 17, page 891 1952 gives a disclosure about the synthesis of amides of with L or DL alanine, L, D or DL aspartic acid, L orDL glutamic acid, glycine, DL histidine, L or DL leucine,DL iso leucine, L, D or DL methionine, L , D or DLphenylalanine, L, or DL proline, DL serine, DL threonine,DL tryptophan, DL valine, Gcystine, L, or DL lysine, andDL tyrosine methyl ester. This paper reports the results of examining the growth controlling effect of these amides on tomato, and states that the D aspartic acid amide, theD methionine amide and the D phenylalanine amide failed to induce formative changes in tomato plants, but the other amides induced formative changes in tomato plants. Weed Science, 3, page 28 1954 deals with synthetic plant growth modifiers, and discloses amides of 2 methyl 4 chloroacetic acid and L , D or DL alanine, L , D or DL leucine, L , D or DL aspartic acid, L , D orDL methionine, L , D or DL phenylalanine and L , D or DL threonine. This paper shows the growth modifying properties of these compounds on pinto bean, black valentine bean, sunflower, cucumber, barley and corn. Journal of Organic Chemistry, 25, page 143 1960 gives a disclosure about the synthesis of amides of 2,4 D with D alanine, beta alanine, D , L, or DL asparagine,D glutamic acid, glycylglycine, D leucine, D orL isoleucine, D or L serine, D or L threonine, D orL tryptophan, D or L valine and D or DL cystine. This paper discusses the possibility of using these amides as plant growth regulators or bioactive formulating agents, and shows the selective activity of the amide of 2,4 D andD asparagine whereby in a dose of 1 pound per acre, it kills pigweed and mustard but does not affect corn and gladiolus. An Evaluation of Several Chemicals for Their Herbicidal Properties 1957 Field Results by W. A. Gentner and W. C. Shaw, United States Department of Agriculture,Agricultural Research Service, Crop Research Division,Plant Industry Station, Beltsville, Maryland, January 1958 shows data on the degree of injury of H 1 2,4 dichloro phenoxy acetyl D asparagine to lima beans, cucumber, cotton, soybeans, sugar beats, snapbeans, lespedeza, ladino clover, alfalfa, red clover, corn, peanuts, buckwheat, sorghums flax, gladiolus, sudan grass, squash, oats, cowpeas and Bird foot trefoil. An Evaluation of Several Chemicals for Their Herbicidal Properties 1958 Field Results by W. A. Gentner and W C. Shaw, United States Department of Agriculture,Agricultural Research Service, Crop Research Division,Plant Industry Station, Beltsville, Maryland, January 1959 gives post emergency data showing the injury ratings of amides of 2,4 dichlorophenoxypropionic acid withL methionine, DL phenylalanine and L leucine on crops such as soybeans, cucumber, cotton, beets, corn, peanuts, barley and clover and weeds such as crabgrass, lambsquarters, ryegrass and mustard. This document discloses that the aforesaid amides do not have selectivity for lambsquarters as a broadleaf weed and crabgrass as a narrowleaf weed. This publication also describes that by preemergence spray, the above three types of amides are rela tively inactive against the aforesaid crops and weeds. French Patent Specification No. 1,544,786 discloses that amides of p halogenophenoxyacetic acids with glycine, alanine, leucine, isoleucine, aspartic acid, arginine, histidine, lysine, phenylalanine, serine and methionine have herbicidal activity. U. S. Patent No. 2,734,816 describes D amino acids acetylated with nuclearly chlorinated phenoxyacetic acids such as 2,4 dichlorophenoxyacetic acid and discloses that these compounds have a hormonal effect of increasing the size of fruits or promoting the growth of tomato. The patent shows that the D amino acid derivatives have the aforesaid effect in concentrations of 4 to 30 ppm. U. S. Patent No. 3,557,209 discloses compounds of the following formulaEMI5.1 wherein R1 is selected from the group consisting of propargyl, haloalkyl of up to 5 carbon atoms, carboxyalkyl of up to 3 carbon atoms and lower alkoxy alkyl and R2 is selected from the group consisting of hydrogen, propargyl, haloalkyl of up to 5 carbon atoms, carboxyalklyl of up to 3 carbon atoms and lower alkoxyalkyl, and states that the above compounds can be applied as herbicides. It is an object of this invention to provide a novel amide compound formed between a phonoxy aliphatic carboxylic acid and an aminocarboxylic acid derivative. Another object of this invention is to provide a novel amide compound having herbicidal activity. Another object of this invention is to provide a herbicide comprising as an active ingredient an amide of a phenoxy aliphatic carboxylic acid with an amino acid derivative. Another object of this invention is. to provide a herbicide which has a selectivity of eradicating weeds without substantially inhibiting the growth of useful cereal crops such as rice and corn. Another object of this invention is to provide a herbicide which can inhibit the growth of, or eradicate, the undesired plants in low dosages per unit area, for example, in doses of less than lkg per hectare. Another object of this invention is to provide a selective herbicide which acts on buds after germination and withers, or inhibits the growth of, not only broadleaved weeds but also some narrow leaved weeds, and therefore in an area where useful crops such as rice and corn and noxious weeds grow together, creates a condition in which the useful crops can grow more than the noxious weeds. Another object of this invention is to provide a selective herbicide which can wither, or inhibit the growth of, weeds by foliar application, and also inhibit the germination of weeds without substantially inhibiting the germination of useful crops by preemergence soil application. Another object of this invention is to provide a selective herbicide having low animal and fish toxicity. An additional object of this invention is to provide a selective herbicide which can be easily produced at relatively low costs. Other objects and advantages of this invention will become apparent from the following description. Investigations of the present inventors have shown that these objects of the invention are achieved by a compound represented by the following general formula 1 EMI7.1 wherein X is C1 or CF3, Y is C1 or CH3, Z represents a divalent saturated or unsaturated aliphatic hydrocarbon group having not more than 4 carbon atoms, RÚ represents a group selected from the class consisting of a hydrogen atom, saturated aliphatic hydrocarbon groups having not more than 4 carbon atoms, a phenyl group, a benzyl group, a beta methylthioethyl group, a hydroxymethyl group, an alpha hydroxyethyl group, a hydroxyphenylmethyl group, a mercapto methyl group and a benzylthiomethyl group, Rê represents the group OR or the groupEMI7.2 R3 represents an aliphatic hydrocarbon group having not more than 15 carbon atoms which may be interrupted by an oxygen atom and may have a substituent, a phenyl group which may have a substituent or an ammonium cation,R4 and R5 are identical or different and each represents a hydrogen atom, a saturated aliphatic hydrocarbon group having not more than 6 carbon atoms, or an alicyclic hydrocarbon group having 5 to 7 carbon atoms, or R4 and R5, taken together with the nitrogen atom to which they are bonded, may form a 5 to 7membered ring which may further contain a hetero atom, R6 represents a hydrogen atom or a saturated aliphatic hydrocarbon having not more than 4 carbon atoms or, taken together with R1, may form CH2CH2CH2 orEMI8.1 n is 0, 1 or 2. In general formula 1 , X is C1 or CF3, and Y is C1 or CH3. In order to achieve the objects of this invention, X and Y need to be the above atom or groups. If one or both of X and Y are hydrogen atoms or groups or atoms other than Cl, CF3 and CH3, the herbicide has lower herbicidal activity and selectivity. Preferably, both of X and Y are C1, or X is C1 and Y is CH3. Z is a divalent saturated or unsaturated aliphatic hydrocarbon group having not more than 4 carbon atoms, which may be linear or branched. Preferred examples areEMI8.2 CH2CH2 , EMI8.3 CH2CH2CH2 , EMI8.4 CH CH ,EMI8.5 EMI8.6 CH2 CH CH and CH CH CH CH .Of these, CH2 ,EMI8.7 and CH2CH2CH2 are especially preferred. Above all, when X and Y are both Clr Z is preferably CH2 . When X is Cl and Y is CH3, Z is preferably an alkylene group having 1 to 3 carbon atoms such as CH2 ,EMI8.8 or CH2CH2CH2 .In general formula 1 r R1 is a hydrogen atom, a saturated hydrocarbon group having not more than 4 carbon atoms, phenylEMI8.9 benzylEMI8.10 beta methylthioethyl CH2CH2SCH3 , hydroxymethyl CH20H , alpha hydroxyethylEMI9.1 hydroxyphenylmethylEMI9.2 mercaptomethyl CH2SH , or benzylthiomethylEMI9.3 The saturated aliphatic.hydrocarbon group having not more than 4 carbon atoms may be linear or branched, and specifically includes methyl, ethyl, n propyl, iso propyl, n butyl, iso butyl and tert butyl. R1 is preferably hydrogen, methyl, ethyl, n propyl, iso propyl, n butyl, iso butyl, sec butyl, t butyl, phenyl, benzyl or beta methylthioethyl.R2 is OR3 orEMI9.4 preferably the former. R3 is an aliphatic hydrocarbon group having not more than 15 carbon atoms which may be interrupted by an oxygen atom and may have a substituent, a phenyl group which may have a substituent, or an ammonium cation in which case the COO group to which the ammonium cation is bonded is naturally an anion . Examples of the aliphatic hydrocarbon group having not more than 15 carbon atoms are methyl, ethyl, n propyl, iso propyl, n butyl, iso butyl, sec butyl, tert butyl, n pentyl, iso pentyl, n hexyl, n octyl, n nonyl, n decyl, n undecyl, n dodecyl, n tridecyl, n tetradecyl, and n pentadecyl. The aliphatic hydrocarbon group having not more than 15 carbon atoms may be linear or branched as indicated above. The e aliphatic hydrocarbon group interrupted by an oxygen atom may, for example, be CH2CH20CH3, CH2CH2OCH2CH3, CH2CH2OCH2CH2OCH3, or CH2CH 2OCH2CH2OCH2CH3. The substituent on the above aliphatic hydrocarbon group may, for example, be a phenyl group, a tolyl group, a hydroxyl group, a halogen atom, etc. The substituent on the above phenyl group may, for example, be a halogen atom such as fluorine, chlorine, or an alkyl group having 1 to 5 carbon atoms. Preferably, R3 is an unsubstituted aliphatic hydrocarbon group having not more than 15 carbon atoms, an aliphatic hydrocarbon group having not more than 15 carbon atoms and a phenyl or hydroxyl group as the substituent, an unsubstituted aliphatic hydrocarbon group having not more than 10 carbon atoms and being interrupted by an oxygen atom, a phenyl group or a phenyl group substituted by an alkyl group having 1 to 5 carbon atoms. More preferably, R is an alkyl group having 1 to 6 carbon atoms. The ammonium cation is represented, for example, by the following formula wherein the three R s are identical or different and each represents a hydrogen atom, alkyl having 1 to 6 carbon atoms, cyclopentyl, cyclohexyl, or phenyl, or two R s may be bonded to each other to form tetramethylene, pentamethylene or ethyleneoxyethylene. The C1 C6 alkyl may be linear or branched, and includes, for example, methyl, ethyl, n propyl, iso propyl, n butyl, iso butyl, sec butyl, n pentyl, and n hexyl.In the groupEMI10.1 R4 and R5 are identical or different and each represents a hydrogen atom, a saturated aliphatic hydrocarbon group having not more than 6 carbon atoms, or an alicyclic hydrocarbon group having 5 to 7 carbon atoms. Examples of the saturated aliphatic hydrocarbon group having not more than 6 carbon atoms will be clear from the examples of R3 given above. The alicyclic hydrocarbon groups having 5 to 7 carbon atoms are cyclopentyl, cyclohexyl and cycloheptyl. Preferably, each of R4 and R5 is hydrogen, methyl, ethyl, cyclopentyl, cyclohexyl or cycloheptyl. AlternativelY, R4 and R5, taken together with the nitrogen atom to which they are bonded, may form a 5 to 7 membered ring which may further contain a hetero atom.R4 and 5, taken together, may formEMI11.1 EMI11.2 R6 is a hydrogen atom, or a saturated aliphatic hydrocarbon group having not more than 4 carbon atoms. OrR6 may be taken together with RÚ to form CH2CH2CH2 orEMI11.3 Examples of the saturated aliphatic hydrocarbon group having not more than 4 carbon atoms will be clear from the examples of R1. Preferably, R6 is hydrogen, methyl, ethyl, n propyl, iso propyl, n butyl, iso butyl, or tert butyl, or taken together with R1, forms CH2CH2CH2 orEMI11.4 n is 0, 1 or 2. It should be understood that when n is 0,EMI11.5 is directly bonded to COR2. Preferably, n is 0. In general formula 1 ,EMI11.6 on the left side is the skeletal portion of a phenol aliphatic carbon lic acid, and theEMI11.7 on the right side is the skeletal portion of an aminocarboxylic acid derivative.The aminocarboxylic acid of the derivative may be an alpha , beta or gamma amino acid corresponding to the value of n.Examples of such amino acids include alpha amino acids such as glycine, alanine, valine, isoleucine, leucine, cysteine, methionine, phenylalanine, phenylglycine, serine, threonine and proline and beta or gamma amino acids such as NH2CH2CH2COOH, EMI11.8 EMI11.9 EMI12.1 Among the above amino acids, glycine, alanine, beta alanine, valine, isoleucine, leucine, methionine, phenylalanine and phenylglycine are especially preferred for the amino acid derivatives of this invention. Specific examples of the compounds of general formula 1 are shown below for facilitating an understanding of this invention without any intention of limiting the invention thereby. EMI13.1 EMI14.1 EMI15.1 EMI16.1 EMI17.1 EMI18.1 EMI19.1 The compounds of general formula 1 in accordance with this invention can be produced, for example, by the following processes. Process 1EMI20.1 Process 2EMI20.2 Process 3EMI20.3 In process 1, R8 represents a lower alkyl group.A compound of geneal formula 1 in which R2 is OR3 andR3 is an ammonium cation may be obtained, for example, by reacting the compound corresponding to general formula 1 in which R2 is OH with ammonia or an amine by a method known per se to form a salt. An amide compound of general formula 1 in which R2 is EMI21.1 may be obtained by amidating the compound corresponding to formula 1 in which Rê is OH, with an amine of the formulaEMI21.2 in accordance with a general synthesizing method. The e compounds of general formula 1 affect the metabolism of plants. They inhibit the growth of certain plant species, regulate the growth of certain plant species, dwarf certain plant species, or wither certain plant species. Among the above amino acids, glycine, alanine, beta alanine, valine, isoleucine, leucine, methionine, phenylalanine and phenylglycine are especially preferred for the objects of this invention. Among the compounds of formula 1 , those of the following formula l a EMI21.3 wherein X, Y, Z, R6, R2 and n are as defined in formula 1 , and Rll is a hydrogen atom or a saturated aliphatic hydrocarbon group having not more than 4 carbon atoms, are preferred active compounds which are substantially non toxic to corn, for example, and used for eradicating weeds growing in an area where corn is cultivated. A herbicide comprising as an active ingredient a compound of the following general formula 1 c which is within general formula 1 EMI22.1 wherein X, Y, Z, R6, R1 and n are as defined in formula Cl , and R31 represents an aliphatic hydrocarbon group having not more than 15 carbon atoms which may be interrupted by an oxygen atom and may have a substituent, is preferred and a herbicide comprising as an active ingredient a compound of the following general formula 1 d which is within general formula 1 EMI22.2 wherein Y and RÚ are as defined in formula 1 r R31 is as defined in formula l c, and awl is EMI22.3 is more preferred, because they show excellent herbicidal activity. A herbicide comprising as an active ingredient a compound of the following formula l e EMI22.4 wherein X, Y, Z, R6, R11 and R31 are as defined above, particularly, a compound of the folowing formula 1 f EMI23.1 wherein X, zl, Rll and R31 are as defined above, is very advantageously used to combat weeds in corn fields. Among the compounds of formula 1 , those of the following formula bEMI23.2 wherein X, Y, Z, R6, R2 and n are as defined in formula 1 , and R12 is phenyl, benzyl or hydroxy phenyl, are preferred active compounds which are substantially non toxic to rice, for example, and are used for eradicating weeds in an area where rice is cultivated. A herbicide comprising as an active ingredient a compound of the following general formula l g which is within general formula 1 EMI23.3 wherein X, Y, Z, R6, RÚ and n are as defined above and R32 represents an aliphatic hydrocarbon group having not more than 15 carbon atoms which may be interrupted by an oxygen atom and may have a substituent, or a phenyl group which may have a substituent, is preferred, and a herbicide comprising as an active ingredient a compound of the following general formula l h EMI24.1 wherein y, zl RÚ and R32 are as defined above, is more preferred, because they shows excellent herbicidal activity. A herbicide comprising as an active ingredient a compound represented by the following formula l i EMI24.2 wherein X, Yr Z, R6, R12 R32 and n are as defined above, particularly a compound represented by the following formula 1 j EMI24.3 wherein Y, ZÚ, R12 and R32 are as defined above, is very advantageously used to combat weeds in corn fields. The compounds of formula 1 may be applied to plant seeds, or to plants in various growing stages through stalks and leaves or roots. Specifically, the compounds of this invention, either as such or in the form of a composition, can be applied in a herbicidally sufficient amount to the seeds, stalks, leaves or roots of plants to be controlled, or their habitat, or the locus where the growth of such plants is anticipated. Preferably, the herbicidally sufficient amount is, for example, an amount which is sufficient for inhibiting the growth of, or eradicating, plants to be controlled. The compounds of this invention may be applied to plants in an amount of lOg to 20kg per hectare, preferably 50g to lOkg per hectare, especially preferably lOOg to 2 kg per hectare. When it is desired to inhibit the growth of, or eradicate, noxious plants, the compounds of the invention, either as such or in the form of a composition, may be applied in herbicidally sufficient amounts to the locus where plants to be controlled or their seeds and a useful plant or its seeds are likely to grow together, whereby the plants to be controlled or their seeds can be selectively inhibited in growth or eradicated. For example, the compound of this invention represented by formula 1 can be applied to the locus in which rice or corn as the useful plant is growing or which is to be used for cultivating the above useful plant, in an amount sufficient to control undesired plants or weeds which are growing, or are liketly to grow, in the above locus. The plants to be controlled are generally noxious plants. The noxious plants may be defined as plants which come into an environment created by man, such as a lowland or upland farm, from the surrounding nature and grow there rnd which, man recognizes, are not useful, or do harm, in XZat environment. These noxious plants are generally called weeds. Tae compounds of this invention are applicable to various weeds exemplified below. Family Species Polygonaceae Polygonum hydropiper L. Chenopodiaceae Chenopodium album L. Ditto Chenopodium album L. var. centrorubrum Makino Ditto Chenopodium ficifolium Smith Portulacaceae Portulaca oleracea L. Amaranthaceae Amaranthus lividus L. Ditto Amaranthus retroflexus L. Compositae Erigeron annuus L. Plantaginaceae Plantago asiatica L. Gramineae Digitaria adscendens Benr. Ditto Echinochloa crus galli P. Beauv. Cyperaceae Cyperus rotundus L. Ditto Cyperus serotinus Rottb. Ditto Scirpus hotarui Ohwi Ditto Eleocharis acicularis Roem. et Schult. var. longiseta Sven. Alismataceae Sagittaria pygmaea Miq. Pontederiaceae Monochoria vaginal is Presl. The useful plants herein are, for example, plants which produce cereals, or lawn. Since the compounds of this invention exert little or no adverse effects on the growth of rice and corn, they are very suitable for application to farms where such plants are, cultivated. By applying the compounds of this invention to an area where lawn is growing, the germination and growth of weeds can be inhibited. In some cases, it is desirable to apply the compounds of this invention before noxious plants grow to a large height, especially before the height of the noxious plants exceeds that of a useful plant or when the noxious plants are only slightly taller than the useful plant. The herbicide of this invention exhibits a very good effect against broad leaved annual and perennial weeds. It also shows herbicidal activity on narrow leaved plants if their height is small. In some cases, it has sufficient herbicidal activity on narrow leaved perennial weeds such as Cyperus rotundus L. The herbicide of the invention shows particularly superior herbicidal activity on weeds of the families Compositae for example, Eriqeron sup. , Chenopodiaceae, Polygonaceae, and Portulacaceae for example, Portulaca oleracea L. . When it is desired to inhibit the growth of, or eradicate, only noxious plants without substantially harming rice as a useful plant in the locus where rice or its seeds and the noxious plants or their seeds grow together or are likely to grow together, the use of the compounds of formula 1 b is preferred. Especially preferred compounds of formula 1 b are those in which X C1 Y C1 or CH3Z CH2 ,EMI27.1 R1 phenyl or benzyl R6 H n O or 1 R2 OCH3, OC2H5, OC3H7 or Ophenyl. If the useful plant is corn, the use of the compounds of formula 1 a is preferred in the above weed controlling method. Especially preferred compounds of formula 1 a are those in which X C1 Y Cl or CH3Z CH2,EMI27.2 R H or CH3 R6 H n O or 1 R2 OCH3, OC2H51 OC3H7t OC4H9 The compounds in accordance with this invention may be used as ordinary formulations such as a solution, emulsifiable concentrate, suspension, dust, paste or granules by including carriers and or surfactants. Examples of such carriers and surfactants are solid carriers such as talc, bentonite, clay, kaolin, diatomaceous earth, white carbon, vermiculite, slaked lime, ammonium sulfate and urea liquid carriers such as water, alcohols, dioxane, acetone, xylene, cyclohexane, methyl naphthalene and dimethylformamide surfactants, emulsifiers, or dispersants such as alkylsulfuric acid esters, alkylsulfonic acid salts, ligninsulfonic acid salts, polyoxyethylene glycol ethers, polyoxyethylene alkyl aryl ethers, polyoxyethylene sorbitan monoalkylates and dinaphthylmethanedisulfonic acid salts various auxiliary agents such as carboxymethyl cellulose and gum arabic.Such formulations can be prepared by, for example, mixing the compounds of this invention with the above exemplified carriers and or emulsifiers, etc. The compounds of this invention may exist in a concentration of usually 0.01 to 99 by weight, preferably 0.1 to 968 by weight in the formulations. The compounds of this invention, either as such or as a mixutre with other active compounds or in the form of the above formulations, can be applied to plants by usual methods such as spraying, atomizing, scattering or dusting. The following Examples illustrate the present invention in greater detail. In these examples, all parts are by weight. The herbicidal activities of the compounds were evaluated on a scale of 6 grades unless otherwise specified. Specifical ly, a rating of 0 means that after the application of the active compound, a plant is as healthy as it was before the application, and a rating of 5 means that the entire plant withers and dies after the application of the active compound. Ratings of 1, 2, 3 and 4 are assigned to varying enfeebled conditions of the plant between the above two extremities. PRODUCTIQN EXAMPLE By using the processes shown hereinabove, compounds of formula 1 were prepared. The properties of these compounds are shown in Table 1. Table 1EMI29.1 tb Compound SEP IR SEP NMR tb SEP No. SEP cm 1 SEP SEP solvent SEP ppm tb SEP 3400 SEP CCl4 SEP 1.30 3H , tb SEP 1 SEP 1740 SEP 4.23 2H , tb SEP 1660 SEP 4.27 2H , tb SEP 1540 SEP 4.50 2H , tb SEP 6.80 1H , tb SEP 6.9 7.5 3H tb SEP 3380 SEP CDCl3 SEP 4.23 3H , tb SEP 2 SEP 1740 SEP 3.80 3H , tb SEP 1650 SEP 4.50 2H , tb SEP 1560 SEP 4.73 1H , tb SEP 6.85 1H , tb SEP 7.1 7.5 3H tb SEP 3400 SEP CDCl3 SEP 3.30 2H , tb SEP 3 SEP 1740 SEP 3.67 3H , tb SEP 1660 SEP 4.43 2H , tb SEP 4.87 1H , tb SEP 6.67 1H , tb SEP 7.0 7.4 8H tb SEP 3250 SEP CDCl3 SEP 3.73 3H , tb SEP 4 SEP 1740 SEP 4.53 2H , tb SEP 1660 SEP 5.63 1H , tb SEP 6.70 7.40 8H , tb SEP 7.67 7.92 1H tb SEP 3400 SEP CDCl3 SEP 3.80 3H , tb SEP 1740 SEP 4.12 2H , tb SEP 5 SEP 1660 SEP 4.53 2H , tb SEP 1540 SEP 6.83 1H , tb SEP 7.0 7.4 4H tb Table 1 continued EMI30.1 tb Compound SEP IR SEP NMR tb SEP No. SEP cm 1 SEP SEP solvent SEP ppm tb SEP 6 SEP 3300 SEP CCl4 SEP 0.9 3H , SEP tb SEP 1730 SEP 1.6 2.0 2H , SEP tb SEP 1660 SEP SEP 3.7 3H , SEP tb SEP 1580 SEP 4.5 2H , tb SEP 4.5 4.7 1H , tb SEP 6.65 7.4 4H tb SEP 7 SEP 3400 SEP CDCl3 SEP 0.9 1.0 6H , tb SEP 1740 SEP SEP 1.55 1.7 3H , SEP tb SEP 1670 SEP 4.5 2H , tb SEP 1520 SEP 3.8 3H , tb SEP 4.5 4.7 1H , tb SEP 6.8 7.5 4H tb SEP 8 SEP 3400 SEP CCl4 SEP 2.03 3H , tb SEP 1740 SEP 2.03 2.60 4H , tb SEP 1670 SEP 3.73 3H , tb SEP 4.47 2H , tb SEP 4.50 4.80 1H , tb SEP 6.73 7.37 4H tb SEP 9 SEP 3400 SEP CDCl3 SEP 3.77 3H , tb SEP 1740 SEP 4.50 4.57 2H , tb SEP 1680 SEP 4.67 2H , tb SEP 4.77 5.05 1H , SEP tb SEP 6.63 7.67 5H SEP tb SEP 10 SEP 3400 SEP CCl4 SEP 0.95 6H , tb SEP 1740 SEP 1.28 3H , tb SEP 1680 SEP 1.8 2.4 1H , tb SEP 4.17 2H , SEP tb SEP 4.47 2H , tb SEP 4.50 1H , SEP tb SEP 6.8 7.4 4H tb Table 1 continued EMI31.1 tb Compound SEP IR SEP NMR tb SEP No. SEP cm 1 SEP SEP solvent SEP ppm SEP tb SEP 11 SEP 3400 SEP CCl4 SEP 1.25 311 , SEP tb SEP 1740 SEP 2.83 2H , tb SEP 1680 SEP 3.67 2H , tb SEP 4.18 2H , tb SEP 4.35 2H , tb SEP 4.75 1H , tb SEP 6080 1H , SEP tb SEP 7.0 7.4 8H tb SEP 12 SEP 3300 SEP CDCl3 SEP 1.7 3H , tb SEP 1740 SEP 3.7 3H , tb SEP 1650 SEP 4.5 4.9 1H , tb SEP 1580 SEP 5.5 1H , tb SEP 6.6 7.3 8H , tb SEP 7.4 8.0 1H tb SEP 13 SEP 3300 SEP CDCl3 SEP 1.0 3H , tb SEP 1740 SEP 1.3 3H , tb SEP 1660 SEP 3.8 4.1 4H , tb SEP 1540 SEP 4.2 4.6 1H , tb SEP 6.5 7.1 4H tb SEP 14 SEP 3300 SEP CDCl3 SEP 1.3 1.7 6H , tb SEP 1740 SEP 3.7 3.75 3H , tb SEP 1650 SEP 4.45 4.85 2H , tb SEP 1560 SEP 6.7 7.5 4H tb SEP 15 SEP 3300 SEP CDCl3 SEP 1.57 3H , tb SEP 1740 SEP 3.15 2H , tb SEP 1660 SEP SEP 3.73 3H , SEP tb SEP 4.4 5.1 2H , SEP tb SEP 6.60 1H tb SEP 6.8 7.4 8H SEP tb Table 1 continued EMI32.1 tb SEP Compound SEP IR SEP NMR tb SEP No. SEP cm 1 SEP SEP solvent SEP ppm tb SEP 16 SEP 3250 SEP CDCl3 SEP 0.95 3H , SEP 4.56 2H , tb SEP 1745 SEP 1.1 2.0 4H , SEP 6.83 1H , tb SEP 1660 SEP 4.20 2H , SEP 7.1 7.5 3H tb SEP 1580 SEP 4.20 2H , SEP tb SEP 17 SEP 3230 SEP CDCl3 SEP 0.95 3H , SEP 4.53 2H , tb SEP 3080 SEP 1.1 2.0 4H , SEP 4.73 1H , tb SEP 1725 SEP 1.50 3H , SEP 6.83 1H , tb SEP 1655 SEP 4.20 2H , SEP 7.1 7.5 3H tb SEP 1560 tb SEP 18 SEP 3250 SEP CDC13 SEP 0.93t6H SEP 4.5 2H , SEP tb SEP 3100 SEP 1.4 2.0 3H , SEP 4.72 1H tb SEP 1735 SEP 1.47 3H , SEP 6.83 1H , tb SEP 1660 SEP 4.20 2H , SEP 7.1 7.5 3H tb SEP 1560 tb SEP 19 SEP 3400 SEP CDCl3 SEP 1.83 3H , SEP 4.55 2H , tb SEP 1735 SEP 1.0 1.9 8H , SEP 6.83 1H , tb SEP 1670 SEP 4.13 2H , SEP 7.1 7.5 3H tb SEP 1560 SEP 4.20 2H , tb SEP 20 SEP 3400 SEP CDC13 SEP 1,6 311 , SEP 4.5 4.9 1H , SEP tb SEP 1750 SEP 2.25 3H , SEP 5.55 1H , tb SEP 1640 SEP 3.7 3H , SEP 6.5 7.7 9H tb SEP 21 SEP 3400 SEP CDCl3 SEP 1.25 3H , SEP 4.0 4.4 4H , tb SEP 1740 SEP 1.55 2H , SEP 4.45 4.85 1H , tb 1650 SEP 2.3 3H , SEP 6.6 7.55 4H tb SEP 1550 tb Table 1 continued EMI33.1 tb Compound SEP IR SEP NMR tb SEP No. SEP 1, SEP solvent SEP ppm SEP tb SEP 22 SEP 3400 SEP CDCl3 SEP 1.3 1.6 6H , tb SEP 1740 SEP 2.3 3H , tb SEP 1660 SEP 3.7 3.75 3H , tb SEP 1560 SEP 4.45 4.85 2H , tb SEP 6.6 7.7 4H tb SEP 23 SEP 3400 SEP CCl4 SEP 1.30 3H , tb SEP 1740 SEP 2.30 3H , tb SEP 1650 SEP 4.05 2H , tb SEP 1550 SEP 4.20 2H , tb SEP 4.43 2H , tb SEP 6.63 1H , tb SEP 6.9 7.3 3H tb SEP 24 SEP 3400 SEP CDC13 SEP 1.47 3H , tb SEP 1740 SEP 2.30 3H , tb SEP 1660 SEP 3.77 3H , tb SEP 1560 SEP 4.47 2H , tb SEP 4.67 1H , tb SEP 6.67 1H , SEP tb SEP 7.0 7.3 3H tb SEP 25 SEP 3300 SEP CDCl3 SEP 2.10 3H , tb SEP 1730 SEP SEP D.15 2H , SEP tb SEP 1660 SEP 3.70 3H , tb SEP 4.40 2H , tb SEP 4.93 1H , tb SEP 6.57 1H , tb SEP 6.9 7.3 8H tb Table 1 continued EMI34.1 tb Compound SEP IR SEP NMR tb SEP No. SEP cm 1 SEP SEP solvent SEP ppm tb SEP 26 SEP 3350 SEP CDCl3 SEP 2.30 3H , SEP 5.63 1H , tb SEP 1730 SEP 3.73 3H , SEP 6.53 7.82 8H , tb SEP 1660 SEP 4.47 211 , SEP tb SEP 1530 tb SEP 27 SEP 3400 SEP CCl4 SEP 2.00 3H , SEP 4.40 2H , tb SEP 1740 SEP 2.30 3H , SEP 4.57 4.80 1H , tb SEP 1670 SEP 2.032.57 4H , SEP 6.60 7.40 4H tb SEP 3.73 3H , tb SEP 28 SEP 3300 SEP CDCl3 SEP 1.57 3H , SEP 4.60 1H , tb SEP 1730 SEP 2.17 SEP 3H , SEP 4.90 SEP 1H , SEP tb SEP 1660 SEP 3.18 2H , SEP 6.4 7.4 8H tb SEP 3.73 3H , tb SEP 29 SEP 3350 SEP CDCl3 SEP 0.95 3H , SEP 4.50 2H , tb SEP 1735 SEP 1.1 2.0 4H , SEP 4.75 1H , tb SEP 1655 SEP 1.50 3H , SEP 6.70 1H , tb SEP 1560 SEP 2.33 3H , SEP 7.0 7.4 3H tb SEP 4.20 2H tb SEP 30 SEP 3380 SEP CDCl3 SEP 2.30 3H , SEP 4.5 2H , tb SEP 1740 SEP 3.80 3H , SEP 6.8 7.4 4H tb SEP 1650 tb SEP 1550 tb Table 1 continued EMI35.1 tb Compound SEP IR SEP NMR tb SEP No. SEP v cm SEP 1 SEP solvent SEP b ppm SEP j SEP tb SEP 31 SEP 3400 SEP CCl4 SEP 1.43 3H , SEP 4.45 2H , tb SEP 1735 SEP 4.56 1H , SEP 4.63 2H , tb SEP 1680 SEP 5.06 5.23 1H , tb SEP 1620 SEP 5.23 5.50 1H , tb SEP 5.60 6.20 1H , tb SEP 6.85 1H , SEP 7.06 7.46 tb SEP 3H tb SEP 32 SEP 3400 SEP CCl4 SEP 0.96 3H , SEP 1.45 3H , tb SEP 1740 SEP 1.60 2H , SEP 4.06 2H , tb SEP 1680 SEP 4.42 2H , SEP 4.55 1H , tb SEP 6.83 1H , tb SEP 7.0 7.4 3H tb SEP 33 SEP 3400 SEP CC 4 SEP 0.90 3H , SEP 1.43 3H , tb SEP 1740 SEP 1.0 2.0 6H , tb SEP 1680 SEP 4.10 2H , SEP 4.43 2H , tb SEP 4.5 5.0 1H , tb SEP 6.80 1H , SEP 7.0 7.4 tb SEP 3H tb SEP 34 SEP 3400 SEP CC 4 SEP 0.85 3H , SEP 1.0 1.9 SEP tb SEP 1740 SEP 16H , SEP 1.43 3H , tb SEP 1675 SEP 4.10 2H , SEP 4.43 2H , tb SEP 4.3 4.7 1H , SEP 6.80 tb SEP 1H , SEP 7.0 7.4 3H tb SEP 35 SEP 3400 SEP CCl4 SEP 1.43 3H , SEP 11. 2.1 tb SEP 1735 SEP 10H , SEP 4.43 2H , tb SEP 1675 SEP 4.3 4.6 1H , tb SEP 4.5 5.0 1H , tb SEP 6.85 1H , SEP 7.1 7.5 tb SEP 3H tb Table 1 continued EMI36.1 tb Compound SEP IR SEP NMR tb SEP No. SEP cm 1 SEP SEP solvent SEP ppm tb SEP 36 SEP 3400 SEP CCl4 SEP 1.45 3H , SEP 3.25 3H , tb SEP 1740 SEP 3.50 4H , SEP 4.45 2H , tb SEP 1680 SEP 4.3 4.8 1H , tb SEP 6.85 1H , SEP 7.1 7.5 tb SEP 1H tb SEP 37 SEP 3360 SEP CCl4 SEP 1.05 3H , SEP 1.22 3H , tb SEP 3280 SEP 1.50 3H , SEP 2.30 3H , tb SEP 1735 SEP 4.55 1H , SEP 4.95 1H , tb SEP 1660 SEP 5.36 1H , SEP 6.48 1H tb SEP 6.7 7.5 8H tb SEP 38 SEP 3360 SEP CDCl3 SEP 0.80 3H , SEP 0.9 1.6 tb SEP 3280 SEP 6H , SEP 1.60 3H , tb SEP 1735 SEP 2.30 3H , SEP 4.10 2H , tb SEP 1660 SEP 4.65 1H , SEP 5.50 1H , tb SEP 6.4 7.7 9H tb SEP 39 SEP 3360 SEP CDCl3 SEP 0.82 3H , SEP 1.0 1.5 tb SEP 3280 SEP 12H , SEP 1.60 3H , tb SEP 1780 SEP 2.30 3H , SEP 4.10 2H tb SEP 1660 SEP 4.65 1H , SEP 5.50 1H , tb SEP 6.4 7.6 9H tb SEP 40 SEP 3360 SEP CDC 3 SEP 0.95 311 , SEP 1.1 1.5 SEP tb SEP 3280 SEP 26H , SEP 1.60 3H , tb SEP 1730 SEP 2.30 3H , SEP 4.10 2H , tb SEP 1660 SEP 4.70 1H , SEP 5.60 1H tb SEP 6.5 7.7 9H tb Table 1 continued EMI37.1 tb Compound SEP IRn SEP NMR tb SEP No. SEP cm 1 SEP solvent SEP SEP ppm tb SEP 41 SEP 3270 SEP CDCl3 SEP 1.40 3H , SEP 1.1 2.1 tb SEP 1655 SEP 6H , SEP 3.3 3.9 4H , tb SEP 4.50 2H , SEP 4.97 1H , tb SEP 6.80 1H , SEP 7.0 7.5 tb SEP 2H , SEP 7.8 8.1 1H tb SEP 42 SEP 3300 SEP CDCl3 SEP 1.25 6H , tb SEP 3270 SEP 3.8 4.5 3H , tb SEP 1660 SEP 4.45 2H , SEP 6.80 1H , tb SEP 6.9 7.7 4H tb SEP 43 SEP 3250 SEP CDCl3 SEP 1.8 2.1 2H , tb SEP 1740 SEP 2.2 2.5 2H , tb SEP 1650 SEP 3.2 3.5 2H , tb SEP 1570 SEP 3.65 3H , SEP 4.5 2H , tb SEP 6.7 7.4 4H , tb SEP 44 SEP 3400 SEP CDCl3 SEP 2.5 2.7 2H , tb SEP 1720 SEP 3.5 3.75 2H , tb SEP 1680 SEP 3.7 3H , SEP 4.5 2H , tb SEP 1520 SEP 6.7 7.4 4H tb SEP 45 SEP 3250 SEP CDCl3 SEP 1.6 3H , tb SEP 1730 SEP 2.4 2.6 2H , tb SEP 1660 SEP 3.4 3.6 2H , tb SEP 1560 SEP 3.6 3H , tb SEP 4.5 4.85 1H , tb SEP 6.7 7.4 3H tb SEP 46 SEP 3250 SEP CDCl3 SEP 1.5 3H , SEP 2.2 3H , tb SEP 1730 SEP 2.3 2.5 2H , tb SEP 1660 SEP 3.3 3.4 2H , tb SEP 1560 SEP 4.3 4.7 1H , tb SEP 6.5 7.4 3H tb Table 1 continued EMI38.1 tb Compound SEP IR SEP NMR tb SEP No. SEP cm 1 SEP solvent SEP SEP ppm tb SEP 47 SEP 3400 SEP CDCl3 SEP 2.2 3H , tb SEP 1730 SEP 2.5 2.7 2H , tb SEP 1680 SEP 3.4 3.6 2H , tb SEP 1520 SEP 3.7 3H , SEP 4.45 2H , tb SEP 6.65 7.3 4H tb SEP 48 SEP 3400 SEP CDCl3 SEP 2.5 2.7 2H , tb SEP 1730 SEP 3.7 3H , tb SEP 1660 SEP 3.5 3.75 2H , tb SEP 1600 SEP 4.5 2H , tb SEP 1530 SEP 6.9 7.7 4H tb SEP 49 SEP 3250 SEP CDCl3 SEP 1.6 3H , tb SEP 1730 SEP 2.4 2.6 2H , tb SEP 1650 SEP 3.4 3.6 2H , tb SEP 1610 SEP 3.6 3H , tb SEP 1560 SEP 4.6 4.95 1H , tb SEP 6.9 7.7 4H tb SEP 50 SEP 3260 SEP CDCl3 SEP 1.7 2.0 2H , tb SEP 1720 SEP 2.2 2.5 2H , tb SEP 1660 SEP 3.2 3.5 2H , tb SEP 1560 SEP 3.7 3H , SEP 4.55 2H , tb SEP 6.8 7.7 4H tb SEP 51 SEP 3250 SEP CDCl3 SEP 1.6 3H , tb SEP 1730 SEP 1.7 2.1 2H , tb SEP 1650 SEP 2.2 2.5 2H , tb SEP 1600 SEP 3.2 3.4 2H , tb SEP 1540 SEP 3.65 3H , tb SEP 4.6 4.95 1H , tb SEP 6.9 7.7 4H tb Table 1 continued EMI39.1 tb Compound SEP IR SEP NMR tb SEP No. SEP cm 1 SEP solvent SEP SEP ppm tb SEP 52 SEP 3400 SEP CCl4 SEP 1.27 3H , SEP 2.17 3H , tb SEP 1740 SEP 1.9 2.7 4H , tb SEP 1650 SEP 3.90 2H , SEP 3.93 2H , tb SEP 1560 SEP 4.13 2H , tb SEP 6.2 6.6 1H , tb SEP 6.60 1H , tb SEP 6.8 7.1 2H tb SEP 53 SEP 3390 SEP CDCl3 SEP 1.41 3H , SEP 2.20 3H , tb SEP 1740 SEP 1.9 2.7 4H , tb SEP 1650 SEP 373 3H , SEP 3.97 2H , tb SEP 1560 SEP 4.60 1H , tb SEP 5.9 6.3 1H , tb SEP 6.70 1H , tb SEP 6.9 7.4 2H tb SEP 54 SEP 3400 SEP CDCl3 SEP 2.60 3H , tb SEP 1740 SEP 1.8 2.6 4H , tb SEP 1650 SEP 3.73 3H , SEP 3.93 2H , tb SEP 1560 SEP 5.60 1H , tb SEP 6.5 6.8 2H , tb SEP 6.9 7.3 2H , tb SEP 7.33 5H tb SEP 55 SEP 3400 SEP CDCl3 SEP 1.3 3H , tb SEP 1740 SEP 4.05 4.4 4H , tb SEP 1660 SEP 4.6 2H , tb SEP 1610 SEP 6.7 7.7 4H tb SEP 1520 tb SEP 56 SEP 3300 SEP CDCl3 SEP 1.3 3H , SEP 1.65 3H , tb SEP 1740 SEP 4.0 4.55 4H , SEP tb SEP 1660 SEP 4.7 5.0 1H , SEP tb SEP 6.9 7.7 4H tb Table 1 continued EMI40.1 tb Compound SEP IR SEP NMR tb SEP No. SEP cm 1 SEP SEP solvent SEP ppm tb SEP 57 SEP 3400 SEP CDCl3 SEP 1.5 3H , SEP 3.8 3H , tb SEP 1750 SEP 4.55 2H , tb SEP 1680 SEP 4.5 4.9 111 , SEP tb SEP 1600 SEP 6.9 7.7 4H tb SEP 1530 tb SEP 58 SEP 3250 SEP CDCl3 SEP 1.3 1.7 6H , tb SEP 1750 SEP 3.7 3.75 3H , tb SEP 1650 SEP 4.5 4.9 2H , SEP tb SEP 1550 SEP 6.9 7.7 4H tb SEP 59 SEP 3400 SEP CDCl3 SEP 3.7 3H , tb SEP 1740 SEP 4.6 2H , tb SEP 1660 tb SEP 1600 SEP 6.8 7.9 9H tb SEP 1500 tb SEP 60 SEP 3400 SEP CCl4 SEP 1.7 3H , SEP 3.7 3H , tb SEP 1740 SEP 4.6 4.9 1H , tb SEP 1640 SEP 5.4 1H , tb SEP 1600 SEP 6.7 7.7 9H tb SEP 61 SEP 3250 SEP CDcl3 SEP 3.1 2H , tb SEP 1740 SEP 3.7 3H , tb SEP 1690 SEP 4.5 2H , tb SEP 1610 SEP 4.7 5.1 1H , tb SEP 1560 SEP 6.8 7.7 9H tb SEP 62 SEP 3300 SEP CDCl3 SEP 1.6 3H , tb SEP 1750 SEP 3.2 2H , tb SEP 1660 SEP 3.7 3H , tb SEP 1600 SEP 4.5 5.0 2H , tb SEP 1550 SEP 6.7 7.6 9H tb Table 1 continued EMI41.1 tb Compound SEP IR SEP NMR tb SEP No. SEP cm 1 SEP SEP solvent SEP ppm tb SEP 63 SEP 3350 SEP CDCl3 SEP 2.05 3H , tb SEP 1740 SEP 2.1 2.7 4H , tb SEP 1680 SEP 3.8 3H , SEP 4.6 2H , tb SEP 1520 SEP 4.8 5.0 1H , tb SEP 6.9 7.7 4H tb SEP 64 SEP 3250 SEP CDCl3 SEP 1.6 1.8 3H , tb SEP 1740 SEP 2.0 2.1 3H , tb SEP 1660 SEP 1.9 2.7 4H , tb SEP 1600 SEP 3.8 3H , tb SEP 1540 SEP 4.6 5.0 2H , tb SEP 6.8 7.7 4H tb SEP 65 SEP 3400 SEP CCl4 SEP 0.9 3H , tb SEP 1740 SEP 1.6 2.1 2H , tb SEP 1680 SEP 3.7 3H , SEP 4.4 2H , tb SEP 1610 SEP 4.4 4.7 1H , tb SEP 6.8 7.7 4H tb SEP 66 SEP 3250 SEP CDCl3 SEP 0.8 3H , SEP 1.7 3H , tb SEP 1740 SEP 1.5 2.0 2H , tb SEP 1660 SEP 3.75 3H , tb SEP 1610 SEP 4.4 5.0 2H , tb SEP 1540 SEP 6.9 7.7 4H tb SEP 67 SEP 1735 SEP CDCl3 SEP 1.7 2.4 4H , tb SEP 1665 SEP 3.70 3H , tb SEP 1655 SEP 3.6 3.8 2H , tb SEP 4.65 1H , SEP 4.73 2H , tb SEP 6.87 1H , tb SEP 7.0 7.4 2H tb Table 1 continued EMI42.1 tb Compound SEP IR SEP NMR tb SEP No. SEP cm 1 SEP SEP solvent SEP ppm tb SEP 68 SEP 1740 SEP CDc 3 SEP 1.7 2.4 4H , SEP tb SEP 1640 SEP 2.25 3H , SEP 3.70 3H , tb SEP 1630 SEP 3.5 3.8 2H , tb SEP 4.55 1H , SEP 4.67 2H , tb SEP 6.70 1H , tb SEP 6.9 7.3 2H tb SEP 69 SEP 1740 SEP CDCl3 SEP 3.20 3H , SEP 3.75 3H , tb SEP 1675 SEP 4.13 2H , SEP 4.85 2H , tb SEP 1660 SEP 6.8 7.3 3H tb SEP 70 SEP 1740 SEP CDCl3 SEP 2.30 3H , SEP 3.20 3H , tb SEP 1655 SEP 3.77 3H , SEP 4.17 2H , tb SEP 4.78 2H , tb SEP 6.6 7.3 3H tb SEP 71 SEP 3300 SEP CDCl3 SEP 1.27 3H , SEP 2.57 2H , tb SEP 1740 SEP 3.70 3H , SEP 4,47 2H , tb SEP 1650 SEP 4.20 4.67 1H , tb SEP 1560 SEP 6.70 7.43 4H tb SEP 72 SEP 3300 SEP CDCl3 SEP 1.67 3H , SEP 2.23 3H , tb SEP 1740 SEP 4.10 2H , SEP 4.20 2H , tb SEP 1660 SEP 4.65 2H , SEP 6.15 1H , tb SEP 1620 SEP 6.5 7.3 5H tb SEP 73 SEP 3280 SEP CD30D SEP 1.30 6H , SEP 3.07 4H , SEP tb SEP 1670 SEP 3.83 2H , SEP 4.60 2H , tb SEP 1650 SEP 7.0 7.4 4H tb SEP 1560 tb Table 1 continued EMI43.1 tb Compound SEP IR SEP NMR tb SEP No. SEP cm 1 SEP SEP solvent SEP 6 SEP SEP ppm tb SEP 74 SEP 3250 SEP SEP CDC13 SEP 1.63 2H , SEP tb SEP 1740 SEP 2.00 2.10 3H , tb SEP 1660 SEP 2.10 2.70 4H , tb SEP 3.70 3.76 3H , tb SEP 4.50 4.86 2H , tb SEP 6.76 7.40 4H tb SEP 75 SEP 3280 SEP CDC13 SEP 0.83 1.00 SEP 6H , SEP tb SEP 1740 SEP 1.50 1.70 6H , tb SEP 1660 SEP 3.67 3.73 3H , tb SEP 4.50 4.90 2H , tb SEP 6.76 7.40 4H tb SEP 77 SEP 3400 SEP C2O DMSO d6 6 4 SEP 1.36 3H , tb SEP 2140 SEP 4.15 1H , tb SEP 1660 SEP 4.60 2H , tb SEP 1580 SEP 4.62 2H , tb SEP 6.9 7.5 3H tb SEP 78 SEP 3400 SEP D2O DMSO D6 6 4 SEP RTI ID 43.6 1.3 3H SEP tb SEP 2100 SEP 1.40 3H tb SEP 1660 SEP 3.05 2H tb SEP 1580 SEP 4.22 1H tb SEP 4.60 2H tb SEP 4.62 4H tb SEP 6.9 7.5 3H tb SEP 79 SEP 3380 SEP DMSO d6 SEP 1.25 3H tb SEP 2160 SEP 0.9 2.1 10H tb SEP 1665 SEP 2.5 3.1 1H tb SEP 1600 SEP 3.95 1H tb SEP 4.60 4H tb SEP 7.0 7.6 3H tb SEP 7.6 8.2 4H tb Table 1 continued EMI44.1 tb Compound SEP IR SEP NNR tb SEP No. SEP cm 1 SEP SEP solvent SEP SEP ppm tb SEP 80 SEP 3400 SEP DMSO d6 SEP 1.28 3H , SEP tb SEP 2100 SEP 2.85 2H , tb SEP 1660 SEP 3.60 2H , tb SEP 1580 SEP 4.00 111 . SEP tb SEP 4.60 2H , tb SEP 7.0 7.7 7H , tb SEP 7.90 111 SEP tb SEP 81 SEP 3400 SEP DMSO d6 SEP 1.05 611 , SEP tb SEP 2500 SEP 1.45 3H , tb SEP 1640 SEP 2.30 3H , tb SEP 2.80 4H , tb SEP 4.85 SEP 2H , SEP tb SEP 6.8 7.6 10H . tb SEP 8.20 111 tb SEP 82 SEP 3400 SEP DMSO d6 SEP 1.45 3H , tb SEP 2510 SEP 0.8 2.1 20H , tb SEP 1670 SEP 2.30 3H , tb SEP 1630 SEP 2.5 3.2 2H , tb SEP 4.80 2H , tb SEP 6.7 7.5 8H , tb SEP 7.6 8.5 3H tb SEP 83 SEP 3350 SEP CDC13 SEP 2.13 3H SEP tb SEP 3100 SEP 3.30 2H , tb SEP 1755 SEP 4.50 2H , tb SEP 1670 SEP 5.17 1H , tb SEP 1550 SEP 6.63 1H , tb SEP 6.9 7.5 12H tb FORMULATION EXAMPLE 1 One part of the active compound of the invention was added to 5000 parts of a mixture of acetone and water 1 1 by volume , and further 2.6 parts of a nonionic surfactant Solpor 2680, a trade name was added to prepare a solution. FORMULATION EXAMPLE 2 One part of the active compound of this invention, 8.7 parts of a mixture of equal amounts of talc and bentonite, and 0.3 part of a mixture of equal amounts ofSolpor 5060 trade name and Solpor 800A trade name were well pulverized and mixed to form a wettable powder. FORMULATION EXAMPLE 3 The active compound of this invention 0.5 part , 8.9 parts of a mixture of equal amounts of talc and bentonite, 0.4 part of Solpor 800A trade name and 0.2 part of sodium tripolyphosphate were pulverized and mixed together with a small amount of water. The mixture was granulated by a granulator, and spontaneously dried to prepare 5 granules. FORMULATION EXAMPLE 4 Thirty parts of compound 16 of the invention was dissolved in a mixed solvent composed of 55 parts of xylene and 5 parts of N,N dimethylformamide, and 10 parts of an anionic surface active agent was added to prepare an emulsifiable concentrate. FORMULATION EXAMPLE 5 Twenty parts of compound 17 of the invention was dissolved in a mixed solvent composed of 30 parts ofN,N dimethylformamide, and 40 parts of alpha methylnaphthalene, and 10 parts of an anionic surface active agent was added to prepare an emulsifiable concentrate. FORMULATION EXAMPLE 6 Twenty five parts of compound 29 of the invention was dissolved in a mixed solvent composed of 30 parts of N,N dimethylformamide, and 35 parts of alpha methylnaphthalene, and 10 parts of an anionic surfaceactive agent was added to prepare an emulsifiable concentrate. EXAMPLES 1 48 Solutions of the active compounds shown in Table 2 were prepared in accordance with Formulation Example 1. The plants shown in Table 2 and used in the present test were obtained by sowing their seeds in the soil and growing them for 2 to 3 weeks after germination. Each of the test solutions was applied to the plants in such a dose that the total amount of each active compound was 0.1 g mê. Thereafter, without applying the solution further, the plants were grown for 3 weeks. Then, the herbicidal activities of the test compounds were evaluated, and evaluated on the scale described hereinabove.The results are shown in Table 2. The numbers 1 to designating the test plants mean the following the same designations are used hereinafter . Ol Water pepper Polygonum hydropiper L Q2 Chenopodium album Linnaeus var. centrorubrum Makino 3 Lambsquarters Chenopodium album L. 4 Chenopodium serotinum L. Common purslane Portulaca oleracea L. Livid amaranth Amaranthus blitum L. 7 Redroot pigweed Amaranthus retroflexus L. Annual fleabane Erigeron annuus L. Q9 Plantain Plantaqo asiatica L. Crabgrass Digitaria sanquinalis Scopoli Purple nutgrass Cyperus rotundus L. 12 Monochoria Monochoria vaqinalis Presl. Saqittaria pygmaea Miquel Bulrush Scirpus juncoides Roxburgh var. hotarui Ohwi Cyperus serotinus Rottboell Spikerush Eleocharis acicularis Roemer et Schultes Baryardgrass Echinochloa crusqalli L. P. Beauv. Rice Corn The annual fleabane and monochoria are annual broad leaved plants. Crabgrass and Baryardgrasse are annual narrow leaved plants. Plantain, Sagittaria pvgmaea and bulrush are perennial broad leaved plants, and purple nut grass, Cyperus serotinus and spikerush are perennial narrow leaved plants. Waterpepper, Chenopodium albumLinnaeus var. centrorubrum Makino, lambsquarters,Chenopodium album L., Livid amaranth, common purslane andRedroot pigweed are annual broad leaved plants. EXAMPLES 49 91 Seeds of plants were sown in the soil, and treated in the following manner on the second day after sowing. The growth of the plants was observed for 3 weeks. A wettable powder containing each of the active compounds of this invention which was prepared in accordance with Formulation Example 2 was suspended in 150 cc m2 of water so that the total amount of the active compound became 0.1 g m2. The suspension was uniformly applied to the surface of the soil after the sowing. Thereafter, without further applying the test chemical, the plants were grown. The results are shown in Table 3. EXAMPLES 92 101 Soil was well mixed with water to create a paddy condition, and seeds of tubers of plants to be evaluated were sown or planted in the soil. Furthermore, rice plants in the 3 to 4 leaf stage were transplanted in the soil and maintained in the irrigated state. The water surface was treated in the following manner, and the growth of the plants was observed for 3 weeks. A wettable powder containing each of the active compounds of this invention which was prepared in accordance with Formulation Example 2 was suspended in 500 cc m2 of water so that the total amount of the compound applied became 0.1 g mê. The suspension was then applied uniformly to the water surface, and thereafter without further applying the test chemical, the plants were grown. The results are shown in Table 4. EXAMPLES 102 103 Soil was well mixed with water to provide a paddy condition, and seeds or tubers of plants to be evaluated were sown or planted in the soil. Furthermore, rice plants in the 3 to 4 leaf stage were transplanted in the soil and the soil was maintained in the irrigated state. THe water surface was treated in the following manner, and the growth of the plants was observed for 3 weeks. Granules containing each of the active compounds of this invention which were prepared in accordance withFormulation Example 3 were applied to the water surface so that the total amount of the active compound became 0.1 g m2. Thereafter, without further applying the test chemical, the plants were grown. The results are shown inTable 5. EXAMPLES 104 111 A solution containing each of the active compounds of this invention was prepared as in Examples 1 48, and applied to plants so that the total amount of the 2 active compound applied became 0.05 glum . The results are shown in Table 6. EXAMPLES 112 115 A solution containing each of the active compounds of this invention was prepared as in Examples 1 48, and applied to plants so that the total amount of the active compound applied became 0.025 g mê. The results are shown in Table 7. EXAMPLES 116 124 A wettable powder containing each of the active compounds of this invention was prepared as in Examples 49 91, and applied to plants so that the total amount of the active compound applied became 0.05 g mê. The results are shown in Table 8. EXAMPLES 125 126 A wettable powder containing each of the active compounds of this invention was prepared as in Examples 49 91, and applied to plants so that the total amount of the active compound applied became 0,025 g m2. The results are shown in Table 9. EXAMPLES 127 132 Granules containing each of the active compounds of this invention were prepared as in Examples 92 101 and applied to plants so that the total amount of the active compound applied became 0.05 g mê. The results are shown in Table 10. EXAMPLE 133 The emulsifiable concentrate prepared in Formulation Example 4 4.6 parts by volume was diluted with 11.4 parts by volume of water. The emulsion was applied to plants, 2 to 3 weeks after emergence, at such a rate that the amount of the active compound was 0.1 g mê. Therefore, without applying the emulsion, the plants were grown for 3 weeks. The, results are shown in Table 11. EXAMPLE 134 The emulsifiable concentrate prepared in Formulation Example 5 was diluted and applied to plants in Ehe same way as in Example 133. The results are shown in Table 11. EXAMPLE 135 The emulsifiable concentrate prepared in Formulation Example 6 was diluted and applied to plants in the same way as in Example 133. The results are shown in Table 11. COMPARATIVE EXAMPLE 1 Formulations containing N 2,4 dichlorophenoxy acetyl D asparagine, N 2,4 cichlorophenoxyacetyl D aspartic acid, N 2,4 dichlorophenoxyacetyl p aminobenzoic acid, N 2,4 dichlorophenoxyacetyl p aminosalicyclic acid, 2 ,4 dichlorophenoxyacetamide, 2,4 dichlorophenoxyacet anilidef and 2 methyl 4 chloro phenoxyacetanilide respectively were prepared in accordance with Formulation Example 1.Each of the formulations was applied to plants in the same way as in Examples, 1 48 so that the amount of each compound became 0.1 gin2. The results are shown in Table 12. COMPARATIVE EXAMPLE 2 Formulations containing N 2,4 dichlorophenoxyacetyl D asparagine, N 2,4 dichlorophenoxyacetyl D aspartic acid, N 2,4 dichlorophenoxyacetyl p aminosalicylic acid, 2,4 dichlorophenoxyacetamide, sodium N 2 2,4 dichlorophenoxy propionyl L methionins and sodiumN 2 2,4 dichlorophenoxy propionyl L leucine respectively were prepared in accordance with Formulation Example 2. Eech of the formulations was applied to plants in the same way as in Examples 49 91 so that the total amount of each of the compounds applied became 0.1 g m2. The results are shown in Table 13. COMPARATIVE EXAMPLE 3 Formulations containing N 2,4 dichlorophenoxy acetyl p aninobenzoic acid, 2 ,4 dichlorophenoxyacet anil ide, 2 methyl 4 chloro phenoxyaceranilide and sodiumN 2 2,4 dichlorophenoxy propionyl D,L phenylalanine were prepared in accordance with Formulation Example 2.Each of the formulations was applied to plants in the same way as in Examples 92 101 so that the total amount of each of the compounds became about O.1 g m2. The results are shown in Table 14. Table 2EMI51.1 tb SEP Ex. SEP z SEP nt SEP SEP Plant tb SEP No. SEP Corn tb SEP pouna SEP Q2 SEP 0 SEP Q4 SEP Gs SEP 000 SEP 010 SEP G tb SEP pound SEP 5543 SEP rjl tb SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 4 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 4 SEP 3 SEP 1 SEP 5 SEP O tb SEP 2 SEP 2 SEP 555555545140 tb SEP 3 SEP 3 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 4 SEP 5 SEP 1 SEP 4 SEP O tb SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP SEP 1 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 1 SEP 5 SEP 4 SEP 3 SEP 2 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP O tb 5 SEP 5 SEP 1 SEP 5 SEP 542 SEP 5 SEP 4 SEP 2 SEP 140 tb SEP 6 SEP 6 SEP 5 SEP 553330 tb 7 SEP 7 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 4 SEP 5 SEP 1 SEP .4 SEP 0 tb SEP 8 SEP 8 SEP 155525545130 tb SEP 9 SEP 9 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 14 SEP 4 SEP 1 SEP 2 SEP O tb 10 SEP 10 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP 1 SEP 3 SEP 0 tb 11 SEP 11 SEP 5 SEP 4 SEP 3 SEP 3 SEP 2 SEP 1 SEP O tb 12 SEP 12 SEP SEP 5 SEP 4 SEP 3 SEP 2 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP O tb 13 SEP 16 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP 1 SEP 4 SEP O tb 14 SEP 17 SEP 3 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 4 SEP 5 SEP 1 SEP 2 SEP O tb 15 SEP 29 SEP 2 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 4 SEP 3 SEP 1 SEP 2 SEP 0 tb Table 2 continued EMI52.1 tb SEP el SEP an SEP C tb SEP pound SEP pcoomua SEP Ol SEP Q3 SEP GitOs SEP I SEP D8 SEP O9 SEP Qo SEP tb SEP No. tb SEP IG SEP 18 SEP 5 SEP ç SEP 5 SEP 4 SEP 5 SEP 1 SEP 2 SEP 0 tb SEP 1 tb 17 SEP 20 SEP 5 SEP 4 SEP rC SEP 3 SEP 3 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 0 tb SEP 1 tb SEP 18 SEP 23 SEP 3 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP r SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 3 SEP 1 SEP 5 SEP o tb SEP 19 SEP 24 SEP 1 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP , SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 4 SEP 1 SEP 4 SEP 0 tb SEP I tb SEP 20 SEP 25 SEP 1 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP 1 SEP 4 SEP o tb SEP 21 SEP 26 SEP 1 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 3 SEP 5 SEP 1 SEP 5 SEP 0 tb SEP 22 SEP 27 SEP 3 tb SEP 22 SEP 27 SEP 3 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 1 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP 1 SEP 5 SEP 0 tb SEP 23 SEP 29 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP 3 SEP 2 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP o tb 5 SEP 43 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 3 SEP 1 SEP 4 SEP o tb 25 SEP roc4 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 4 SEP 3 SEP 1 SEP o tb SEP SEP SEP tb SEP 26 SEP 7 SEP 1 SEP 5 SEP 4 SEP 5 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP o tb SEP 27 SEP 52 SEP 5 SEP 4 SEP Lt SEP 2 SEP i2 SEP 1 SEP 0 tb SEP I tb SEP SEP SEP tb SEP 28 SEP 53 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 3 SEP 5 SEP 2 SEP 1 SEP 0 tb SEP 2q SEP 54 SEP 5 SEP 4 SEP 3 SEP 2 SEP 1 SEP 0 SEP 1 tb 30 SEP 56 SEP SEP SEP 5 SEP t SEP SEP 4 SEP t4 SEP 2 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP lo tb Table 2 continued EMI53.1 tb Ex. SEP I tb No. SEP p a SEP t SEP 8 SEP 0 SEP 04.0 SEP commat SEP Q7 SEP Q8 SEP 09 SEP Go SEP tb SEP poun tb SEP No. tb 31 SEP 57 SEP 5 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP 3 SEP 3 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP O tb SEP SEP t SEP SEP SEP tb SEP 32 SEP 67 SEP 2 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 1 SEP 5 SEP 3 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 3 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP O tb SEP I SEP 53110 tb 33 SEP 68 SEP 3 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP SEP 5 SEP 1 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 3 SEP 2 SEP 2 SEP 1 SEP O tb SEP 34 SEP 1 SEP 31 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 4 SEP 3 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP O tb 35 SEP 1 SEP 32 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 4 SEP 3 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP O tb SEP 3 tb 36 SEP 1 SEP 33 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 4 SEP 2 SEP 3 SEP 0 tb 1 SEP 34 SEP I SEP tb 37 SEP 34 SEP i SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP 2 SEP 1l SEP 1 tb SEP I tb 58 SEP 35 SEP 5 SEP SEP 5 SEP 4 SEP 2 SEP 1O SEP O SEP O tb 38 SEP 35 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 4 SEP 2 SEP L tb 39 SEP 36 SEP 5 SEP 553 SEP 12 SEP 2 SEP 0 tb SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 0 tb 40 SEP 42 SEP 5 SEP 4 SEP SEP SEP 2 SEP 2 SEP 1 SEP 0 SEP 0 tb 41 SEP 1l SEP 72 SEP 1 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP 3 SEP 4 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 0 tb 42 SEP 73 SEP 73 SEP 1 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP O tb 43 SEP 30 SEP 1 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 3 SEP 1 SEP 3 SEP 0 tb SEP 5 tb 44 SEP 18 SEP t SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 4 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP o tb K tb i45 SEP 77 SEP l SEP 4 SEP 5 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP O tb 45 SEP 77 tb 46 SEP 1 SEP 78 SEP 4 SEP 5 SEP 14 SEP 5 SEP 2 SEP 1 SEP 0 tb 4 6 SEP i tb 47 SEP 1 SEP 79 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP 14 SEP 13 SEP 11 SEP SEP o tb 48 SEP 1 SEP 80 SEP 1 SEP i SEP 4 SEP 5 SEP 14 SEP Is SEP 1 SEP 1l SEP 0 tb Table 3EMI54.1 tb SEP Plant tb SEP Ex. tb SEP No. SEP Com SEP 107 SEP 4 SEP 17 SEP s tb SEP pound SEP No. tb 1 SEP 1 SEP 4 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 4 SEP 5 SEP O tb SEP v SEP . SEP . tb SEP 50 SEP 2 SEP 4 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 4 SEP 5 SEP 0 tb SEP 51 SEP 4 SEP 2 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 2 SEP 5 SEP O tb SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 2 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 3 SEP 4 SEP 0 tb 53 SEP 7 SEP 2 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 2 SEP 5 SEP O tb SEP l tb 154 SEP z SEP 8 SEP 2 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 2 SEP 4 SEP 0 tb 55 SEP 10 SEP 2 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 2 SEP 4 SEP 0 tb 1 SEP 13 SEP 2 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 2 SEP 4 SEP 0 tb 1 SEP 57 SEP 14 SEP 4 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 2 SEP 5 SEP O tb 1 SEP I tb SEP 58 SEP 21 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 2 SEP 4 SEP 0 tb 59 SEP 31 SEP 4 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 2 SEP 5 SEP 0 tb SEP 60 SEP 32 SEP 4 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 4 SEP LF SEP O tb 61 SEP 33 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 1 SEP 2 SEP 5 SEP 0 tb i tb 62 SEP 34 SEP 2 SEP 1 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 2 SEP 5 SEP 0 tb SEP . SEP SEP tb 63 SEP 35 SEP 4 SEP 1 SEP 4 SEP 5 SEP 2 SEP 5 SEP 0 tb I SEP SEP SEP 1 SEP SEP SEP I tb l SEP 64 SEP 36 SEP 4 SEP SEP 5 SEP 4 SEP 3 SEP Z SEP O tb Table 3 continued EMI55.1 tb SEP Plant tb SEP EXc tb SEP No. SEP Corn SEP 10 SEP 7 SEP 4 SEP 178 SEP 19 tb SEP pound SEP No. tb SEP 65 SEP 37 SEP 2 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 2 SEP 4 SEP 0 tb SEP 66 SEP 38 SEP 2 SEP 5 SEP 4 SEP 3 SEP 4 SEP 0 tb SEP 67 SEP 39 SEP 2 SEP 4 SEP 1 SEP 5 SEP 2 SEP 1 SEP 5 SEP 0 tb SEP i SEP r tb 4M2 SEP 4 SEP 1 SEP 5 SEP 2 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 0 tb SEP 4 SEP 1 SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP tb SEP 5 SEP 0 tb 69 SEP 1 SEP 41 SEP 1 SEP 2 SEP 4 SEP 1 SEP 52 tb SEP LC2 SEP 2 SEP 4 SEP 5 SEP 2 SEP LL SEP O tb 42 SEP 2 SEP 4 SEP 5 SEP 2 SEP 4 SEP 0 tb SEP 71 SEP i SEP 22 SEP 2 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 2 SEP 0 tb SEP 5 tb SEP l tb SEP 72 SEP 23 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 1 SEP 5 SEP 2 SEP 1 SEP 4 SEP 0 tb SEP 72 SEP 23 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 2 SEP i SEP 4 SEP 0 tb 73 SEP 1 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 1 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 0 tb SEP 5, SEP 5 SEP 1 SEP 4 SEP 1 SEP 5 SEP 0 tb SEP 74 SEP 27 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 2 SEP U SEP 5 SEP 0 tb SEP i5 SEP o tb SEP 75 SEP 44 SEP 2 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 4 SEP 5 SEP 0 tb 76 SEP 45 SEP 4 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 2 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 0 tb SEP 1 tb SEP 77 SEP 46 SEP 2 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 2 SEP 1 SEP 5 SEP 0 tb SEP 78 SEP 52 SEP 2 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 2 SEP 4 SEP 0 tb SEP 4 SEP o tb SEP 79 SEP 53 SEP 1 SEP 2 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 2 SEP 4 tb SEP 80 SEP 54 SEP 1 SEP 2 SEP 4 SEP 5 SEP 2 SEP 50 tb Table 3 continued EMI56.1 tb SEP Plant tb EX. tb No. SEP Com SEP 4 SEP 17 SEP 8 SEP 19 tb SEP pound SEP SEP , tb 81 SEP 56 SEP 2 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 2 SEP 5 SEP O tb SEP t tb 82 SEP j SEP 58 SEP 2 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 2 SEP 5 SEP Q tb sg tb 83 SEP 1 SEP 72 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 3 SEP 5 SEP O tb 84 SEP 73 SEP 4 SEP 5 SEP 4 SEP 2 SEP 5 SEP 1 tb 85 SEP 74 SEP 4 SEP 5 SEP SEP 5 SEP 2 SEP 5 SEP 0 tb 86 SEP 75 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 2 SEP 4 SEP O tb 87 SEP 16 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 3 SEP 5 SEP O tb 88 SEP i SEP 17 SEP 4 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 3 SEP 5 SEP O tb 89 SEP 1 SEP 29 SEP 4 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 2 SEP 5 SEP O tb 90 SEP 1 SEP 81 SEP i SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 3 SEP 4 SEP 1 tb SEP t tb 91 SEP 1 SEP 82 SEP 3 SEP 5 SEP 3 SEP 2 SEP 5 SEP O tb Table 4EMI57.1 tb SEP Plant tb Ex. SEP 7 SEP 7 tb No. SEP Corn SEP 12 SEP 13 SEP 14 SEP 15 SEP 16 SEP 17 SEP 18 tb pound SEP No. tb 92 SEP 3 SEP 4 SEP 3 SEP 4 SEP 1 SEP 4 SEP 3 SEP 0 tb 93 SEP 4 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 1 SEP 4 SEP 3 SEP 0 tb 94 SEP 12 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 4 SEP 2 SEP 0 tb 95 SEP 15 SEP 4 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP 3 SEP O tb 96 SEP 20 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 3 SEP 0 tb 97 SEP 25 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 4 SEP 5 SEP 4 SEP 0 tb 98 SEP 52 SEP 2 SEP 4 SEP 5 SEP 0 SEP 3 SEP 3 SEP 0 tb 99 SEP 53 SEP 5 SEP 3 SEP 5 SEP 0 SEP 4 SEP 3 SEP 0 tb 100 SEP 54 SEP 5 SEP 4 SEP 5 SEP 0 SEP 4 SEP 3 SEP 0 tb 101 SEP 83 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP 3 SEP 4 SEP 3 SEP O tb Table 5EMI57.2 tb SEP Plant tb Ex. tb SEP No. SEP Corn SEP 12131415161718 tb pound SEP No. tb SEP 102 SEP 4 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 2 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP O tb SEP 103 SEP 25 SEP 5 SEP 4 SEP 5 SEP 2 SEP 5 SEP 4 SEP O tb Table 6EMI58.1 tb Plant tb No SEP razzcorn SEP 3 SEP 4 SEP Q SEP z SEP 7 SEP 9 SEP Qo SEP tb SEP pound tb SEP No. tb 1 04 SEP . SEP 1 SEP 5 SEP 15 SEP 4 SEP 2 SEP 1 SEP Li SEP O tb 105 SEP r SEP 2 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 4 SEP 1 SEP 4 SEP 0 tb 106 SEP 8 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP L SEP 3 SEP 0 tb 1 SEP 107 SEP 23 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 4 SEP 3 SEP 1 SEP 4 SEP 0 tb SEP SEP tb 108 SEP 24 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP SEP LC SEP 3 SEP 1 SEP 2 SEP 0 tb 108 SEP 24 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 4 SEP 3 SEP 1 SEP 2 SEP O tb 109 SEP 27 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 4 SEP 1 SEP 3 SEP 0 tb 110 SEP 44 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP O tb i SEP 47 SEP 5 SEP 2 SEP 3 SEP 3 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP o tb 111 SEP 47 SEP 1 SEP 5 SEP 233110 tb Table 7EMI58.2 tb SEP Ex, tb SEP No, SEP Com SEP I SEP Q3 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP O9 SEP Qo SEP C tb SEP pound tb SEP No. tb SEP I tb SEP 112 SEP 1 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 4 SEP 2 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 0 tb SEP 113 SEP 2 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 3 SEP 2 SEP 1 SEP z1 SEP 0 tb SEP 114 SEP 8 SEP SEP z SEP 5 SEP 0 SEP 4 SEP 3 SEP 2 SEP 11 SEP 1 SEP 0 tb SEP 5 SEP 44 SEP 5 SEP SEP SEP 5 SEP 3 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP z1 SEP 0 tb Table 8EMI59.1 tb SEP Plant tb Ex. tb No. SEP Com SEP X SEP Corn SEP 107417819 tb SEP pound SEP No0 tb SEP 116 SEP 1 SEP 3 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 3 SEP 4 SEP O tb SEP 116 SEP 1 tb SEP 117 SEP 2 SEP 4 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 3 SEP 5 SEP 0 tb SEP 118 SEP 8 SEP 1 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 1 SEP 4 SEP O tb 119 SEP 23 SEP 3 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 4 SEP 0 tb SEP 120 SEP 24 SEP 4 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP l SEP 4 SEP 5 SEP 0 tb SEP 120 SEP 24. SEP 4 SEP 5 SEP 5 tb SEP 121 SEP 27 SEP 1 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 1 SEP 4 SEP O tb SEP 122 SEP 44 SEP 1 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 1 SEP 5 SEP O tb SEP 123 SEP 70 SEP 3 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 1l SEP 3 SEP 4 SEP O tb SEP I tb SEP 124 SEP 30 SEP 3 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 1 SEP 3 SEP 4 SEP O tb Table 9EMI59.2 tb SEP Plant tb Ex. tb No. SEP Com SEP SEP 1074 SEP z SEP z SEP 178 SEP 19 tb SEP pound SEP No. tb 125 SEP 1 SEP 2 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 2 tb SEP l SEP 1 tb 126 SEP 2 SEP 4 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP SEP 3 SEP SEP 4 SEP 1 SEP 0 tb Table 10EMI60.1 tb SEP Plant tb SEP EX. tb SEP No. SEP Com SEP r SEP 7 tb SEP pound SEP No, SEP N tb 127 SEP 12 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP 3 SEP 0 SEP 1 SEP 3 SEP 2 SEP 0 tb SEP 128 SEP 20 SEP 5 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP 3 SEP 4 SEP 3 SEP 0 tb , tb 129 SEP 25 SEP 5 SEP 4 SEP 5 SEP 1 SEP 4 SEP L SEP 4 SEP O tb 1 SEP I tb SEP 130 SEP 26 SEP 5 SEP 4 SEP 5 SEP SEP 1 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP 0 tb SEP 51 SEP 28 SEP 1 SEP 5 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP 1 SEP 4 SEP 3 SEP 0 tb SEP 132 SEP 49 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 4 SEP 5 SEP 1 SEP 5 SEP 1 SEP 3 SEP 0 tb Table 11EMI60.2 SEP Plan tb 5 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP o tb 134 SEP 1 SEP 17 SEP 5 SEP . SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 4 SEP 5 SEP 0 tb 135 SEP 29 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 4 SEP O tb Table 12 EMI61.1 SEP Compound SEP Plant tb SEP 4 SEP 7 SEP 8 SEP 9 SEP 10 SEP 11 SEP 19 tb N 2,4 dichlorophenoxyacetyl D asparagine SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 tb N 2,4 dichlorophenoxyacetyl D aspartic SEP acid SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 tb N 2,4 dichlorophenoxyacetyl p aminobenzoic SEP acid SEP 4 SEP 3 SEP 3 SEP 2 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 1 tb N 2,4 dichlorophenoxyacetyl p aminosalicyclic SEP acid SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 4 SEP 2 SEP 2 SEP 1 SEP 2 tb 2,4 Dichlorophenoxyacetamide SEP 3 SEP 5 SEP 4 SEP 2 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 2 tb 2,4 Dichlorophenoxyacetanilide SEP 4 SEP 5 SEP 4 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 0 SEP 2 tb 2 Methyl 4 chlorophenoxyacetanilide SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP 2 SEP 1 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 2 tb Table 12 continued EMI62.1 SEP Plant tb SEP 4 SEP 7 SEP 8 SEP 9 SEP 10 SEP 11 SEP 19 tb N 2,4 dichlorophenoxy propionyl L methionone SEP 3 SEP 2 SEP 1 SEP 2 SEP 1 SEP 0 SEP 2 tb N 2,4 dichlorophenoxy propionyl L leucine SEP 3 SEP 3 SEP 1 SEP 2 SEP 1 SEP 0 SEP 2 tb N 2 2,4 dichlorophenoxy propionyl D,L phenylalanine SEP 3 SEP 2 SEP 2 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 0 SEP 2 tb Table 13 EMI63.1 SEP Compound SEP Plant tb SEP 10 SEP 7 SEP 4 SEP 17 SEP 8 SEP 19 tb N 2,4 dichlorophenoxyacetyl D asparagine SEP 0 SEP 2 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 tb N 2,4 dichlorophenoxyacetyl D aspartic SEP acid SEP 0 SEP 3 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 tb N 2,4 dichlorophenoxyacetyl p aminosalicyclic SEP acid SEP 2 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 2 SEP 4 SEP 3 tb 2,4 Dichlorophenoxyacetamide SEP 1 SEP 5 SEP 3 SEP 1 SEP 4 SEP 2 tb Table 14 EMI64.1 SEP Compound SEP Plant tb SEP 12 SEP 13 SEP 14 SEP 15 SEP 16 SEP 17 SEP 18 tb N 2,4 dichlorophenoxyacetyl D aminobenzoic SEP acid SEP 2 SEP 3 SEP 3 SEP 0 SEP 4 SEP 2 SEP 2 tb 2,4 Dichlorophenoxyacetanilide SEP 3 SEP 2 SEP 4 SEP 0 SEP 4 SEP 2 SEP 2 tb 2 Methyl 4 chlorophenoxyacetanilide SEP 4 SEP 3 SEP 4 SEP 0 SEP 3 SEP 3 SEP 2 tb