# IN SITU ANALYSIS OF A LIQUID CONDUCTIVE MATERIAL

## Abstract
A method and apparatus for measuring the constituent elements of a liquid, electrically conductive material includes a probe housing, which delimits a sampling chamber constructed to contain a non reactive gas, and includes an entry mechanism for introducing aliquot of the liquid material into the sampling chamber. An inner housing is located within the probe housing and is moveable longitu dinally relative thereto. A housing adjustment mechanism selectively positions the inner housing longitudinally relative to the probe housing. A spark electrode is disposed within the inner housing and is in communication with the sam pling chamber. This electrode is longitudinally moveable relative to the inner housing and is constructed to spark an electrical arc discharge between the spark electrode and the free surface of the liquid aliquot, thereby producing a aerosol sample composed of particles of the material in the gas. A spark electrode adjustment machanism selectively positions the spark electrode longitudindlly relative to the inner housing to selectively locate an electrical discharge portion of the spark electrode farther from the liquid free surface than from the sampling end portion of the inner housing. A gas entry mechanism provides an atmosphere of non reactive gas at a selected pressure in the sampling chamber and provides a flow of the gas through the inner housing, through the region of the electrical arc and through the sampling chabmer. An exit mechanism directs a flow of the gas and the aerosol sample out from the sampling chamber.