# Method for gas separation.

## Abstract
A process for separating a gas from a mixture of gases comprises passing the gas mixture over a membrane, selectively permeable by the gas being separated, owing to one or more reversible reactions between a continuous layer of active molten material, immobilized in a thin, rigid, porous, inert support therefor, and the gas being separated.

## Claims
Claims 1. A process for separating a gas from at least one other gas in a mixture, comprising passing the gas mixture over a membrane selectively permeable to the gas being separated, which membrane comprises a thin, porous inert support in which an active material is immobilized within the pores and the active material is a molten salt 2 The process of Claim 1 wherein the molten salt is capable of undergoing one or more reversible reactions, with the gas being separated. 3. The process of Claim 2 , wherein the reversible reaction is formation of a coordination complex. 4. The process of Claim 2, wherein the reversible reaction is an acid base reaction. 5. The process of Claim 2, wherein the reversible reaction is formation of an organic chemical compound. 6. The process of Claim 2 wherein the reversible reaction is an oxidation reduction reaction. 7. The process of Claim 1, wherein the membrane is contained within a module of hollow fibers, a spiral winding or a series of flat plates. 8. The process of Claim 1, wherein the reversible oxidation reduction reaction is nitrate nitrite interconversion, oxygen is the gas being separated and the active material in the membrane is molten alkali metal nitrate. 9. The process of Claim 1, wherein the porous membrane containing the molten salt is supported on a macroporous support composed of ceramic, glass, metallic or polymeric material. 10. The process of Claim 1, including removing gas passing through the membrane by a stream of sweep gas. 11. The process of Claim 1, including removing gas passing through the membrane using a compressor.

## Description
METHOD FOR GAS SEPARATION Technical Field This invention relates to an improved method of separation of a gas from a mixture of gases and to improved membranes for the separation process. Background Art Numerous approaches to the separation of a gas from a mixture of gases by differential permeation have been investigated. Robb et al., inU.S. Patent 3,335,545, have proposed use of a liquid, entrapped in a porous or permeable support, to separate mixtures of gases. The use of a so called quasi liquid film, for example, diethylene glycol, in a support has permitted separation of carbon dioxide from nitrogen, hydrogen or oxygen, the selectivity being somewhat higher than would be predicted on the basis of the molecular weights of the gases as the sole factor, influencing separation. Ward, III, has proposed, in U.S. Patent 3,503,186, a similar procedure for separating sulfur dioxide from other gases. The use of facilitated transport liquid membranes has been reviewed by Way et al., J. Membrane Science, vol. 12 1982 , pages 239 259.Another typical disclosure of gas separation using a facilitated transport immobilized membrane is that of Bassett et al., Biochimica etBiophysica Acta, vol. 211 1970 , pages 194 215. Facilitated transport of gases through liquid membranes is also recited, for example, in the following U.S. Patents 3,396,510 Ward,III, et al. 3,676,220 Ward,III 3,819,806 Ward,III, et al. 4,014,665 Steigelmann 4,015,955 Steigelmann et al. 4,119,408 Matson 4,147,754 Ward,III 4,174,374 Matson Ward,III, et al. t510 recite using an immobilized liquid film as a permeable membrane, wherein the liquid film contains at least one soluble, non volatile, dissolved carrier species, which is reversibly chemically reactive with a selected component of a gaseous mixture. Kimura, et al. U.S. Patent 4,318,714 have recited using an ion exchange membrane to accomplish facilitated separation of a gas from a mixture of gases. Yanamoto, et al. U.S. Patent 3,155,467 have disclosed separation and purification of hydrogen, using a palladium alloy as a permeable wall structure. Solid and molten salt electrolytes have been disclosed, in the fuel cell or electrochemical arts, in the following representative patents 3,400,054 Ruka et al. 3,432,363 Gillis 3,527,618 Bushnell 3,727w058 Schrey 4,317,865 Trocciola et al. U.K.2,082,156 Yoshisato et al. Yoshisato, et al., in U.S. Patent 4,330,633, recite using a solid electrolyte comprising a sintered body of mixed inorganic metal oxides as a membrane for the regeneration of oxygen at relatively high temperatures about 800 C . Oxygen is known to permeate selectively through metallic silver.However, oxygen fluxes at reasonable temperatures about 4000C are low, as reported by Gryaznov, et al., Russian. J Phys. Chem., vol. 47 1973 , pages 1517 1519. At higher temperatures, metallic membranes for the separation of oxygen from other gases are unstable, see Mulhaupt, U.S.Patent 3,359,705. A limiting feature in many of these disclosures is that a gas should not completely permeate the electrolyte or electrode, since complete penetration could short circuit the device. Batigne et al., U.S. Patent 4,396,572, recite using a porous ceramic barrier, having a plurality of superimposed layers of pastes of varying composition, to separate uranium hexafluoride isotopes by ultrafiltration. It is apparent that presently available membranes for separation of gases by diffusion, permeation or ultrafiltration are for the most part relatively unselective or complex in structure. It is therefore an object of this invention to provide methods and articles of the separation of gases from mixtures, which are much more highly selective and have higher fluxes of permeating gas than presently available methods and to provide membranes which are simple to construct and to use. Disclosure of Invention In one aspect, this invention relates to a process for separating at least one gas from a mixture of gases, comprising passing the gas mixture over a membrane selectively permeable to the gas being separated as a result of one or more reversible reactions, including oxidation reduction reactions, between the gas being separated and an active material in the membrane wherein the membrane comprises a thin, porous, inert support in which is immobilized the active material and the active material is a molten salt, preferably capable of one or more reversible reactions with the gas being separated. In another aspect, this invention relates to a process for separating a gas from at least one other gas in a mixture by the steps of introducing the mixture into a module having at least a feed gas inlet and a permeate gas outlet and containing a membrane selectively permeable to the gas being separated, which membrane comprises a thin, porous inert support in which an active material is immobilized within the pores, which membrane has a inlet side and a permeate side and which active material is a molten salt capable of undergoing one or more reversible reactions, with the gas being separated passing the mixture through the feed inlet and into contact with the inlet side of the membrane removing from the inlet side of the membrane a gas stream rejected by the membrane and removing from the permeate gas outlet the gas passing by reaction through the membrane. In still another aspect, this invention relates to a membrane for gas separation processes, comprising a thin, porous, inert support in which is immobilized a molten active salt, capable of undergoing one or more reversible reactions, other than oxidation reduction reactions, with the gas being separated Salt, as used in the specification and claims, means a substance which is comprised of cations and anions and which is characterized by overall electrical neutrality. The cations and anions may be inorganic, organic or a combination of both. It will be understood that salts have a wide range of melting points and that, for the purposes of this invention, the melting point of the salt used as active material is the minimum temperature, at which the membranes of this invention can be used for separation of a gas from a mixture of gases. Immobilized, as used in the specification and claims, refers to molten active material, captured within the pores or interstices of the ceramic or other support, as well as any material in the form of a thin film of salt melt on the surface of the support. Although the molten salt need not necessarily fill the entire void volume of the porous support, it is believed that a thin continuous layer of molten salt in or on the support is necessary for the successful operation of the membranes. Reversible reaction, as used in the specification and claims essentially means a chemical reaction which can go forward to the right or backwards to the left, depending upon the relative concentrations of reactants and products at any time. One type of reversible reaction within the meaning of the invention is formation of a coordination complex. A coordination complex or coordination compound consists of a central atom or ion, surrounded by a set of other atoms, ions or small molecules. The atoms, ions or molecules surrounding the central atom are conventionally called ligands. The resulting entity is generally a complex and, specifically, in the practice of this invention is a complex ion. The gas being separated from the mixture will accordingly be a ligand in this complex ion. Typical examples of coordination compounds include entities such as PF6, Cr CO6 , Cr NH3 3 CO CO MH3 6 3 CoCl and Zn NH3 The 6 NH3 6 , 4 2 complexes useful in accordance with this invention will be those formed by an ion of a salt, whether a cation or an anion. In a representative case, the separation of ammonia from nitrogen in contact with a membrane comprising molten zinc chloride, it is proposed that the zinc chloride in this ammonia rich environment reacts reversibly to form a zinc ammoniate coordination compound, Zn NH3 . The initial condition of a cross section of the membrane is thought to be that depicted below FEED SIDE NH3 N2 Zn 2C1 NH3 Zn NH3 2C1 Zn 2 C1 Zn 2 Cl PERMEATE SIDE NH3 The zinc ammoniate ions thus formed at the feed side will diffuse toward the permeate side, where there is a lower concentration of such ions. At the permeate side membrane gas interface, where there is a much lower partial pressure of ammonia, the zinc ammoniate ions will reversibly dissociate back into zinc ions and free ammonia, which is removed as the permeate stream. The steady state condition of the membrane is shown in the diagram below, wherein the zinc ions thus formed at the permeate side diffuse back to a region of lower concentration at the feed side, thus completing the overall cycle, which amounts to net transport of ammonia through the membrane. This net transport of ammonia through the membrane arises from the reversible reactivity of ammonia with zinc ions and the mobility of the zinc ions and zinc ammoniate ions in the molten salt. Chloride acts, in this example, to provide electrical neutrality.FEED SIDEPERMEATE SIDEEMI6.1 The other feed gas, nitrogen, does not react with the molten salt.Since there is no mechanism by which nitrogen can be transported actively through the membrane, it remains largely on the feed side and an excellent overall separation of ammonia nitrogen is thus achieved. Although the foregoing gives a proposed theoretical explanation of the mechanism by which the process of the present invention operates, it will be understood that the inventors do not wish to be bound by such explanation and rely on the appended claims to define the invention In practice, preferred separations employing coordination complexes are those wherein a fused molten lithium nitrate is used for the separation of ammonia from nitrogen or hydrogen or a mixture thereof, preferably from nitrogen, by the reversible formation of a lithium ammoniate in the melt b ammonia is separated from hydrogen or nitrogen using molten zinc chloride as the active material in the membrane and the complex formed in the melt is a mono or diammoniate, and c water is separated from oxygen, nitrogen or air by formation of one or more dissolved hydrate complexes in a melt of lithium and sodium nitrates Another type of reversible reaction, appropriate for the practice of this invention is an acid base reaction.This type of reaction includes those of Arrhenius acids, Lowry Bronsted acids and Lewis acids and bases A representative embodiment of a separation involving an acid base reaction is the separation of carbon dioxide from a mixture of gases, using as the active membrane ingredient a molten tetraalkylammonium carboxylate salt. Alkyl can be the same or different alkyl of 1 24 carbon atoms and is preferably of 1 10 carbon atoms. The carboxylate can have any anion radical which wil 1 give a salt of the melting point range, desired for operation of the membrane. Tetrahexylammonium benzoate THAB is particularly preferred. These tetraalkylammonium carboxylates can also be used for the separation of hydrogen sulfide from other gases. A further reversible reaction, utilized in the practice of this invention, is formation of an organic chemical compound, which is capable of spontaneous formation and dissociation at the temperature of operation of the membrane. For example, tetraalkylammonium salts of amino acids can react reversibly with carbon dioxide to form carbamates. This reaction can be used for the separation of carbon dioxide from other gases. Alkyl can be the same or different alkyl of 1 24 carbon atoms. A preferred embodiment is that in which the amino acid is glycine or sarcosine and the alkyl is of 1 10 carbon atoms.In the case of sarcosine, the relevant reaction is CO, HN CH3 CH2COO w HOOCN CH3 CH2COO It is proposed that separation of ammonia, based on formation of coordination complexes with zinc chloride, may be governed according to chemical properties set forth by Krasnov et al., Tables and Diagrams ofThermodymanic Properties of Zinc Chloride Ammoniates in Vapor and LiquidPhases, Moskov. Vsesoyuznvy Toplo Tekhnicheskiv Institute.Investiya,Moscow, no.11 1935 , pages 44 49 Starokadomskaya, Saturation Pressure of Ammonia During the Thermal Decomposition of the Diammonium Salt ofZinc Chloride, Zhurnal Prikladnoy Khimii, vol. 9 1935 or 1936 , pages 599 602 Zubakhina, Investigation of Complexing in the ZnC12 NH3System, Truly Nauchno lssiedovatek skogo Institute Osnovnoi Khimii, vol.19 1969 , pages 105 110. Solubility behavior of ammonia in melts of alkali nitrate and perchlorate is discussed by Allulli, J. Whys, Chem., vol 73 1969 , pages 1084 1087. Properties of chloroaluminates, which might be germane to the use of molten cuprous chloride coordination complexes, e.g., C2H5 3NH CuC12 or C2H5 3 NH CuCl2 as active materials for the coordination of carbon monoxide, are reported by Walker, Solid and Liquid PhasesContaining CuAlCi4, Symposium on Advances in Separation Technology, presented before the Division of Petroleum Chemistry, Inc., SeattleMeeting, March, 1983, pages 746 755 Kendall, et al., A Study of theFactors Influencing Compound Formation and Solubility in Fused SaltMixtures, J. Am. Chem.Soc., vol. 45 1923 pages 963, ff Hussey, Room Temperature Molten Salt Systems, Mamantov et al., ed., Advances inMolten Salt Chemistry 5, Elsevier, New York 1983 , pages 185 219 Hussey et al., The Electrochemistryof Copper in a Room Temperature AcidicChloro aluminate Melt, J. Electrochem. Soc. Solid State Science and Technology, vol. 126 1979 , pages 1029 1034 and Hussey, Mamantov ed.,Advances in Molten Salt Chemistry 5, pages 219 223. The reaction of silver 1 compounds having hard counterions e.g., Ages4, AgClOg, with olefins is recited by Cotton et al., AdvancedInorganic Chemistry A Comprehensive Text, John Wiley Sons, New York 1980 , pages 971 972. It is expected that the reported complex formation of monovalent silver compounds with olefins could be exploited for separating olefins from a gas mixture containing them. Another reversible reaction is a Reversible oxidation reduction reaction, which as used in the specification and claims essentially means an oxidation reduction reaction which can go forward to the right or in reverse to the left, depending upon the relative concentrations of reactants and products at any time. Representative reactions include interconversion between nitrate and nitrite ions EMI9.1 It is proposed that oxides are produced by reactions such as 4 N03 form nitrite 2 0 4 N02 02 and that the oxides in the melt, including one or more of 0 , 0 2 and 2 catalyze the reaction. Another type of oxidation reduction reaction which can be exploited in the practice of this invention includes interconversion of oxygen oxide species EMI9.2 A further exemplary oxidation reduction reaction is that involving oxidation of hydrogen by hydroxide ions EMI9.3 In a representative case, an alkali metal nitrate molten salt membrane is first activated by allowing some of the nitrate NO 3 ions to lose oxygen and to NO ions in the melt spontaneously, as result of heating.EMI9.4 The working molten salt membrane will thus contain both an alkali metal nitrate and an alkali metal nitrite. The operation of the membrane can be further visualized as follows At the feed side of the membrane, nitrogen and oxygen are in contact with the surface of the alkali metal nitrate nitrite melt. The initial condition is as depicted in the following cross sectional diagram of the membrane FEED SIDEPERMEATE SIDEEMI10.1 The excess concentration of nitrate ions at the feed side of the membrane will promote their diffusion towards the permeate side.At this interface, there is a much lower partial pressure of oxygen, than at the feed interface therefore, nitrate ions will reversibly dissociate into nitrite ions and liberate oxygen, which is removed in the permeate stream The steady state condition of the membrane is shown in the diagram below, in which nitrite ions thus formed at the permeate side diffuse back to a region of lower concentration at the feed side to complete the overall cycle, which amounts to net transport of oxygen through the membrane. The net transport of oxygen arises from reversible reactivity of oxygen with nitrite ions and mobility of the nitrite and nitrate ions in the salt.FEED SIDEPERMEATE SIDEEMI10.2 The other feed gas, nitrogen, does not react with the molten salt.Because there is no mechanism by which nitrogen can be actively transported through the melt, it will be largely rejected at the feed side of the membrane. In this way, excellent separation of nitrogen and oxygen is achieved. Although the foregoing gives an attempt to provide a theoretical explanation of the mechanism of the process of the present invention, it will be understood that the inventors do not wish to be bound by such explanation and rely on the appended claims to define the invention. It is proposed that the use of an alkali metal nitrate melt membrane for separation of oxygen from air relies on the nitrate nitrite interconversion. However, the reaction between oxygen and oxide species may also be occurring, as discussed more fully by Zambonin, et al., J.Am. Chem. Soc., vol. 91 1969 , pages 2225 2228 Zambonin,Electroanalytical Chemistry and Interfacial Electrochemistry, vol. 45 1973 , pages 451 458 and Flinn et al., J. Electroanal. Chem., vol 63 1975 , pages 39 57. It is also known that other molten salt systems react reversibly with oxygen by processes involving equilibria with reduced oxygen species, particularly oxide O , peroxide O2 and superoxide O2 . For example, it has been reported that Na2 O Na2SO4 melts take up oxygen reversibly at 9200C, presumably by the reactions EMI11.1 Stern et al., J. Pays. Chem. vol. 83 19it , pages 2848 2854. It is also thought that redox equilibria, involving the decomposition of sulfate to sulfite and gaseous sulfur dioxide, are involved. It is expected that hydrogen hydride interconversion in molten alkali metal hydroxide membranes of the invention would operate in accordance with the behavior reported by Baikov, et al., Activation ofMolecular Hydrogen by Solid and Fused Hydroxides. III. Kinetics andMechanism of Isotope Exchange Between Hydrogen and Solutions of Water inAlkali Melts and IV. The Role of Cations in the Catalysis of Homomolecular Exchange of Hydrogen on Solid Hydroxides, Kinetika X Kataliz, vol. 23 1982 , pages 573 577 and vol. 24 1983 , pages 502 505. Reversible oxygen uptake from Na2O NaCl melts is also known,Stern, et al., J. Electrochem. Soc., vol. 124 1977 , pages 641 649. Cuprous chloride alkali metal halide melts, e.g., CuCl CuC12 KCl, are also known to react reversible with oxygen, probably by the reaction EMI12.1 Fontana, et al., Ind. En. Chem., vol 44 1952 , pages 369 378. Because of the complexity of the redox processes thought to occur in salt melts, it is understood that the processes of this invention include transfer of gases, capable of undergoing an oxidation reduction reaction with a molten salt, immobilized in a support, regardless of the mechanism by which the process actually takes place. It will be understood that the reversible reactions, appropriate for use in the practice of this invention, are not limited to those set forth above. The membranes of the present invention are represented macroscopically in Fig. 1, for the separation of a permeable gas A from a mixture of gases A and B. The porous solid support is a rigid, or slightly flexible, inert material, selected from metallic, polymeric or ceramic substrates. The support material is filled or coated with at least a continuous layer of the selected molten salt, or mixture thereof. The feed gas passes over the feed side of the membrane, as shown by the mixture A B on the upper side of Fig. 1. The reactive member of the gas mixture will undergo one or more reversible reactions with ions in the molten salt, as discussed above. Eventually, at steady state conditions, the reactive gas A permeates the membrane. In an experimental context, the reactive or permeate gas A is removed from the system by an inert sweep gas and a sample of the sweep gas stream is transferred to a gas chromatograph for analysis. In a large scale utilization of the invention, it will be preferred to exhaust permeate gas from the system with a compressor and transfer relatively pure permeate gas to a process requiring it or to containers. It is proposed that the gas pressure, required to displace liquid that is immobilized by capillary forces from the pores of a porous wetted membrane, conforms to the equation Porter, Handbook of SeparationTechniques for Chemical Engineers, Schweitzer, ed., McGraw Hill 1979 ,Appendix A, page 2 89 P 4 Y cos 8 d wherein Y is the surface tension of the gas liquid interface, 0 is the contact angle between the liquid and the pore wall and d is the pore size. In qualitative terms, the salt or mixture of salts selected for the membrane will be fluid at the temperature of use, but the melt will not have an excessive rate of flow or tendency to dry out or migrate from the inert support. The salt will be essentially non volatile under conditions of use. Although membranes, comprising a monomolecular layer of active molten salt in the inert support will function in accordance with the invention, it is preferred to use membranes, having a continuous film of molten active salt immobilized in and layered on the support, or a combination thereof. Membranes meeting this criterion will have a relatively low permeability to a non reactive gas at 760 torr at the temperature of use, as measured against the background content of inert, non reactive sweep gas on the permeate side of the membrane. In a preferred case, the permeability of nitrogen as the inert gas is selected as a standard and is below 20 Barrer under these conditions. The support is selected from ceramic, glass, metallic and organic polymeric materials, stable at the temperature of use, which are either rigid or slightly flexible and which do not react with the active molten salt or with the gas mixture being treated. A practical lower limit for the thickness of self supporting membranes is below 0.01 centimeters, but some thinner materials may lack the rigidity required. However, ultrafine porous ceramic films, less than 20 micrometers in thickness are known, Leemaars et al., J. Materials Science, vol. 19 1984 , pages 1077 1088. It will be understood that the support can be coated or adhered to another material, usually of greater porosity, which will provide the structural rigidity required. For example, a composite or asymmetric membrane, as described inSchweitzer, Handbook of Separation Techniques for Chemical Engineers, McGraw HillC1979 , pages 2 19 to 2 26, contemplated for use in the practice of this invention would have a thin finely porous layer, containing the active molten salt, supported further on a macroporous support comprising polymeric, ceramic or metallic material. It is further preferred that the support have a pore size of 0.003 100 micrometers. It will be appreciated that large effective membrane areas can be attained by using a plurality of smaller membranes, connected by a manifold or other connecting means, or that a large membrane can be made mechanically strong by the use of supporting means, well known to those skilled in the art. The membrane may be contained within a module in the configuration of hollow fibers, a spiral winding or a series of flat plates. A description of hollow fiber and spirally wound membrane configurations is given in Schweitzer, ibid., pages 2 61 to 2 65 and 2 21, respectively. In any separation process, carried out under the principles of this invention where the molten salt undergoes reversible reactions with the gas being separated, the maximum achievable flux of permeate gas per cross sectional area of membrane is equal to the effective diffusion coefficient of the carrier active molten salt , multiplied by the concentration gradient of carrier driving force between the two interfaces of the membrane.Thus, Flux D x AC hQ cm3 . cm2 sec1 cm2 . sex x cm3 . cm3fcm In general, the flux through a membrane may be expressed as the product of a standard permeability times the cross sectional area of the membrane, times AP AQ , wherein EQ is the pressure difference across the membrane and AQ is the thickness of the membrane. As in any facilitated transport system, the actual flux will also depend on the kinetics of the reversible reactions of the permeating gas with the molten salt. Permeability Po is expressed in Barrer units, that is, 1 Barrer cm3 . cm x l0l0 sec. cm2 . cmHg When polymeric membranes are used to support a melt and it is desired to express the gas flux through the membrane in a manner which reflects only the separation performance of the melt, a correction will be made for the porosity and tortuosity of the membrane, so that Flux Po . A. AP AQ porosity tortuosity Selectivity S for a mixture of gases, A and B, in which A is the permeate gas, is expressed by the ratio of permeabilities A Po Po3 Very high selectivities are observed, using typical membranes of this invention. For example, selectivities of 80 145 were measured for separation of ammonia from nitrogen, using a molten salt membrane of lithium chloride.The same separation, utilizing molten zinc chloride as the active molten salt in the membrane, gave selectivities above 1000 1. Similarly, the separation of carbon dioxide from nitrogen, using molten tetraalkylammonium benzoate or sarcosinate salts in the membranes, exceeded a selectivity of 10. In the case of the tetralkylammonium benzoate membrane, it was surprisingly found that the presence of water in the gas stream improved the separation, rather than affecting it deleteriously. The selectivity for separation of water vapor from nitrogen, using a molten lithium nitrate sodium nitrate membrane, was about 200 1. It is therefore apparent that the membranes of the present invention give impressive selectivities, compared to selectivities of known membranes, typical examples of which are set forth in Table 1 below. For the regeneration of oxygen from air, preferred melts are lithium nitrate or sodium nitrate, immobilized in a porous metallic or ceramic support. Preferred operating temperatures are above 4000C, more preferably above 4500C. Mixtures of nitrates, particularly of two or more of sodium, lithium and potassium nitrates, containing a maximum of 99 by weight of any of the nitrates, are particularly preferred. Selectivities approaching 200 for oxygen in air have been achieved, using the teachings of this invention. It will be appreciated that such selectivities are much higher than those observed for separation of oxygen nitrogen mixtures using conventional polymer membranes, as shown in Table 2. Brief Description of the Drawings In Fig. 1 is shown a side view of a membrane, useful for the practice of the invention. In Figs 2, 3 and 4 are shown a test apparatus for demonstrating the principles of this invention, including a membrane, membrane holder and test cell. Table 1 Standard Permeabilities Po in Barrer Units, and Permeability Ratios Selectivity of Polymer Membranes to NH3, H2 and N2Membrane PO NH3 PO H2 PO N2 PO NH3 PO H2 T C Ultrathin polyetherimide a 48.4 25.8 0.361 1.9 23 Ethyl cellulose b 705 87 8.4 at 30 C 8.1 25 Cellulose nitrate b 57.1 2.0 at 20 C 0.12 29 25 Silicone rubber on polysulfone multi component membrane c 210 f 55 f 3.8 RTPolysulfone c 53.0 13.0 4.1 RTPolyethylene d 29 7 0.9 32 25 Plasticized poly trifluorochlorethylene d 5 4 0.3 1.3 25 Cellulose acetate e 6550 f 246 f 3.2 f 26 Poly 4,4 diphenylenesulfoneterephthalamide g 1200 180 a Browall, U.S. Patent 4,156,597. b Polymer Handbook, 2nd edition, J. Brandrup et al., Eds., John Wiley and Sons, NY, 1957 , page III 239. c Henis et al., U.S. Patent 4,230,463. d Brubaker et al., Ind. Eng. Chem., vol. 46, 1954 , page 733. e SeparexR sales literature, 1982 relative permeability data given in Table 1 was calculated from Relative permeation rates of SeparexR cellulose acetate, membranes given as, NH3 400 H2 15 N2 0.20 , scf per hour per sq. ft. at 7.03 Kg kmê, temperature not specified. Source Battelle, Business Opportunities in Membrane Technology , Final Report to Multiclient Sponsors, June 22, 1983. f Po 1 values x 106 in units of cm cmê sec cm Hg . g Semenova, U.S.S.R. Patent 1063774 A 1983 . Table 2Standard Permeabilities Po in Barrer Units, and Permeability Ratios Selectivity of Selected Polymer Membranes for Oxygen and NitrogenMembrane Po O2 Po N2 Po O2 Po N2 T C Poly dimethyl siloxane 605 281 2.1 25Poly 4 methylene 1 32.3 7.8 4.1 25Butyl Rubber 1.3 0.32 4.1 25High Density Polyethylene 0.40 0.14 2.9 25Teflon FEP 4.9 1.59 3.1Taken from Polymer Handbook, 2nd edition, J. Brandrup and E. H. Immergut, eds. John Wiley and Sons,New York, 1975, pages III, 229 280. Best Mode for Carrying Out the Invention In a most preferred aspect of this invention, the membrane comprises an inert ceramic support at least 0.02 cm in thickness, and which has a pore size of 0.003 200 micrometers, is filled with a continuous film of molten active material and has a permeability to nitrogen below 20Barrers at 760 torr at the temperature of use. Without further elaboration, it is believed that one skilled in the art can, using tie preceding description, utilize the present invention to its fullest extent. The following preferred specific embodiments are, therefore, to be construed as merely illustrative and not limitative of the remainder of the disclosure in any way whatsoever. In the followingExamples, temperatures are set forth uncorrected in degrees Celsius.Unless otherwise indicated, all parts and percentages are by weight. For experiments at high temperatures, a membrane comprising a thin film about 0.2 mm of a molten salt supported in a porous metallic or ceramic material, was used. In a typical case, the membrane support was a circular piece of num 304 stainless steel woven wire mesh about 0.02 cm in thickness, pore size from 4 13 micrometers, Pall Corp., Cortland, NY , supported rigidly between two Inconel 600 rings about 10 cm in inner diameter. The mesh was loaded with a salt by melting the dry salt into its pores, until at least enough salt was used to provide a visibly continuous molten film on one surface of the wire mesh. The thus coated mesh and support assembly was sealed into a sample cell. In Figs. 2 and 3 are shown a top view and a side view, respectively, of holder assembly 4 for a wire mesh membrane support.In Fig. 4 is shown the sample cell 5, including the gold O ring with which the support assembly is sealed into the sample cell.. The sample cell or module 5, as shown in Fig. 4, was provided with means for introducing feed gas through feed inlet 7 on the feed side of the membrane 1, and for removal of a gas stream rejected by the membrane through reject outlet 8 with permeate sweep gas inlet 10 on the opposite side of the membrane, for passing sweep gas in contact with the membrane 1 and permeate outlet means 11 for conveying permeate gases and carrier gases to an analyzer means. The apparatus was housed in a thermostatted, tubular, high temperature heating mantle and could operate at temperatures up to about 550 C. The experimental assembly also included a gas manifold and was further provided with electronic mass flow controllers to permit precise blending of feed gas mixtures. A gas chromatograph was used for analysis of the permeate gases in the sweep stream. A typical lower temperature membrane was prepared by placing several drops of a low melting salt Stetrahexylammonium benzoate, Eastman Kodak Cho. on a circular piece of 3501. Celanese Corp. porous polymer. The polymer was 27 micrometers thick and had pore dimensions of 0.4 x 0.04 micrometers. The salt was smeared over the support with a microscope slide, which was used to remove excess salt from the membrane. The filled coated membrane was loaded into a cell, otherwise as above, but thermostatted in a bath of ethylene glycol. In another embodiment of the invention aspect, the method of this invention will be separation of oxygen from other gases, using molten sodium or lithium nitrate, immobilized in a porous metal support, at a temperature above 4000C. Example 1 Separation of Ammonia from Nitrogen using a Lithium Nitrate Immobilized Molten Salt Membrane Stainless steel woven wire mesh num 304, about 0.02 cm thick, 4 13 micrometers pore size, area about 0.8 cm 3 was coated with fused lithium nitrate to provide a visibly continuous molten film on one surface of the wire mesh, which was mounted into the high temperature testing apparatus. The sample was heated to a furnace temperature of 279 C, using a feed flow of 30 cm3 min for feed gas and a sweep flow on the permeate side of the membrane of 30 cm3 min of helium, both at about 1 atmosphere pressure and 250C. The total pressure in the cell during the experiments was about 760 torr. The concentration of gases in the permeate stream was determined by gas chromatography, using a 305 cm molecular sieve column for nitrogen and a 183 cm Chromosorb column for ammonia, both operated isothermally at 600C. After the system had stabilized at the operating temperature, there was no leak of nitrogen across the membrane, as indicated by very low nitrogen permeability. The utility of the membrane in separating ammonia from nitrogen was tested in three one day runs. During each run, the concentration of ammonia in the ammonia nitrogen feed was varied from 0 100 . The concentrations of ammonia and nitrogen in the permeate were monitored by gas chromatography. Results for specific ammonia nitrogen mixtures, representing an average of the three one days runs were Gas Mix torr Permeability Po of NH3 Selectivity S for NH3 2 l0 3 2 3 2 Barrer x 10 3 2 76 684 9.9 245 190 570 7.4 129 380 380 7.1 80 760 0 6.5 These results show that good separation of ammonia and nitrogen was accomplished, using the immobilized lithium nitrate membrane. It is also apparent that permeability is a function of the partial pressures at the feed interface of the membrane. Example 2 a Separation of Ammonia from Nitrogen using a Zinc Chloride Immobilized Molten Salt Membrane The membrane was prepared by melting zinc chloride into the pores of 2 stainless steel mesh about 0.02 cm thick, area 0.8 cm . The membrane was placed in the high temperature cell and checked for continuity by measuring permeability of pure nitrogen at 3100C. The membrane was used for separation of ammonia from nitrogen over a 21 day period of continuous operation. Gas flow on both the feed and permeate side was 20 cm3 min at about 1 atm and 250C. Permeabilities were calculated as the means of 10 15 measurements of ammonia and nitrogen fluxes over a two hour period, after the system had reached equilibrium under a given set of conditions. Results were Gas Mix torr Permeability PoX, NH3 Barrer x 10 4 NH3 N2 2500C 3000C 3500C 30 720 10 13 14 160 640 6.9 7.9 15 320 480 2.8 4.4 4.6 480 320 4.3 640 160 2.1 3.3 800 0 2.1 2.9 3.2 Nitrogen flux through the zinc chloride membrane was very low, close to the background level of nitrogen in the sweep stream.Therefore, the selectivity could not be determined quantitatively, but was estimated to be at least 1000 1. b Separation of Ammonia from Hydrogen Experiments were done as in Example 2 a , using as the feed stream a mixture of ammonia and hydrogen. Argon was used as the permeate sweep gas to facilitate detection of hydrogen by the gas chromatograph. At 3110C, using feed of pure hydrogen 800 torr , the standard hydrogen permeability was calculated to be 9 Barrer. Under the same conditions, using pure ammonia as feed, the permeability of ammonia was 2.9 x 104 Barrers. Therefore, the ammonia hydrogen selectivity was about 3200 1. Example 3 Separation of Ammonia from Nitrogen using Zinc Chloride Immobilized Molten Salt Supported in a Porous Ceramic Membrane A circular sample of woven zirconium dioxide cloth about 0.038 cm in thickness, 87 cm porosity, type ZYW 15, Zircar Ceramics, Florida, N.Y. was soaked in molten zinc chloride. The thus impregnated membrane was sandwiched between two annular Inconel rings outer diameter about 1 cm, inner diameter about 0.6 cm . The resulting assembly was sealed into the high temperature test cell using gold O rings. Permeability measurements were made as in Example 2 at gas pressures of about I atm, feed rates of ammonia nitrogen or helium sweep gas of 20 cm3 min at about 1 atm and 25 C and an internal membrane temperature of 311QC. Owing to uncertainties about the thickness of the membrane, permeabilities in Barrer as indicated below, are uncertain. Membrane performance, defined as Po AQ cm cm . sec. cmHg was obtained by dividing standard permeability by the assumed thickness of the membrane ca 0.038 cm . The nitrogen flux was accordingly very low, compared to the background level of nitrogen in the helium sweep.The estimatedPoNH3 PoN2 was at least 1400 1 Gas Mix Permeability Pressure NH3 Pressure N2 PoNH3 torr torr Barrer 5 Po 80 720 7.0 x 105 1.8 107 160 640 4.7 x 105 1.2 x 107 320 480 3 2 x 105 8.4 x 106 480 320 2.8 x 105 7.4 x 106 630 170 2.4 x 105 6.3 x 106 800 0 2.2 x 105 5.7 x 106 Example 4 Separation of Carbon Dioxide from Nitrogen using a Tetrahexylammonium Benzoate Immobilized Molten Salt Membrane The membrane was prepared by placing several drops of tetrahexylammonium benzoate THAB, Eastman Kodak Corp. on a circular piece of 3501 Celgardw Celanese Corp., thickness 0.0027 cm, area 2.56 2 cm , pore dimensions 0.4 x 0.04 micrometers, tortuosity 1.25, porosity 0.5 .The salt was smeared over the polymer film and allowed to enter the porous polymer. Excess salt was removed. The membrane was loaded into the lower temperature cell, thermostatted with an ethylene glycol bath. The initial feed flow was 11.7 cm3 min of carbon dioxide and 16.9 cm3 min of nitrogen and the permeate flow was 10 cm min of helium, both at 1 atm. The permeate was analyzed for carbon dioxide and nitrogen by gas chromatography, using an 183 cm Poropak P column, run isothermally at 60 C. Carbon dioxide and nitrogen permeabilities were measured as a function of temperature, taking into account the tortuosity and porosity of the support. Results were Temperature C Permeability CO Barrer Selectivity PoC02 PoN2 2 40 240 15.0 50 312 13.6 60 404 11.9 70 498 10.6 80 588 9.6 100 821 7.8 120 1070 6.4 These results show that carbon dioxide permeability increases with increasing temperature, but selectivity decreases. Example 5 Separation of Carbon Dioxide from Nitrogen using a Tetrahexylammonium Sarcosinate THAS Immobilized Molten Salt Membrane Tetrahexylammonium hydroxide was prepared by stirring together tetrahexylammonium bromide 2.2 g, Eastman Kodak Corp. and 6.5 g. of silver I oxide in 25 ml of 80 methanol 20 water by volume. The hydroxide was titrated with aqueous sarcosine solution. Removal of solvent, using a rotary evaporator, give tetrahexylammonium sarcosinate, N nC6H11 4 NH CH3 CH C0O, in the form of a yellow liquid. The 2 sarcosinate was used to prepare a membrane, supported in a porous polymer film as in Example 4. The membrane was 0.0027 cm in thickness, 2 2.56 cm in area, and had a tortuosity of 1.25 and porosity of 0.5. The permeation experiments were done at gas pressures about 760 torr at feed flows of 11.7 cm3 min for carbon dioxide and 16.9 cm min for nitrogen and sweep gas flow helium of 10 cm min. Results were Permeability C02 Selectivity Temperature µC Barrer PoC02 PoN2 40 68 11.3 50 105 11.7 60 155 11.9 70 259 12.3 75 481 12.2 The THAS membrane was operated for about four days at or below 750C without any observed alteration in its properties. After the membrane was heated to 950.C, the carbon dioxide permeability at 600C was 218Barrers and PoCO2 PoN2 was 12.8. Although the THAS membrane had lower carbon dioxide permeability that the THAB membrane of Example 4, the THAS membrane had higher seiectivity at elevated temperatures than the THAB membrane. Example 6 Separation of Water Vapor from Nitrogen using Lithium Nitrate Sodium Nitrate Immobilized Molten Salt Membrane A molten salt membrane of a mixture of lithium nitrate sodium nitrate 0.75 0.25 mol was immobilized in a stainless steel wire mesh as in Example 1. The membrane was placed in the high temperature cell and used to separate water vapor from nitrogen. The detection system was similar to that of Example 1, except that a set of hygrometers was attached to each of the feed and permeate streams to measure dew or frost point water concentration . The nitrogen water feed mixtures were prepared by passing nitrogen through a bubbler, immersed in a water ethylene glycol constant temperature bath. Feed mixtures of 1 3 by volume of water were thus obtained. Gas flows were 20 Cm spin at about 1 atm. The membrane thickness 2 steel mesh was 0.02 cm and the membrane area 0.8 cm . When the membrane was heated to 2300C, very low nitrogen permeability was observed. This indicates that the molten salt film was continuous. The membrane was tested over four days with nitrogen water mixtures.Results were T Membrane Water Pressure torr Water Permeability COC Feed Permeate Barrer 200 15.48 0.66 4.3 x 1Q4 240 15.48 0.72 5.4 x 104 300 15.48 0.75 5.6 x 104 200 11.99 2.94 3.6 x 105 240 11.99 3.10 3.8 x 105 300 11.99 3.47 4.5 x Owing to the low level of nitrogen passing the film, of the order of the background level of nitrogen, only a lower limit for hydrogen nitrogen selectivity could be estimated. The thus estimated PoH2O PoN2 is about 200 1. It is therefore apparent that the sodium lithium nitrate immobilized salt membrane permits excellent separation of water from nitrogen at 200 300 C. Example 7 Effect of Water on Separation of Carbon Dioxide Using an Immobilized Salt Membrane of Tetrahexylammonium Benzoate A membrane of tetrahexylammonium benzoate, under conditions otherwise as in Example 4, was used to study the effect of added water on the efficiency of separating carbon dioxide from nitrogen. The wet feed was produced by bubbling feed through water at ambient temperature before passage over the membrane. The following results were obtained Temp. Feed Permeability C02 Selectivity OC Barrer PCO2 2 2 2 40 dry 194 14.2 40 wet 228 15.1 50 dry 252 12.6 50 wet 279 13.1 60 dry 311 11.1 60 wet 339 11.7 70 dry 388 10.0 70 wet 407 10.4 80 dry 468 9.0 80 wet 480 9.2 90 dry 550 8.2 90 wet 546 8.5 100 dry 696 7.3 100 wet 700 7.4 These results show that moist feed had higher carbon dioxide permeability and selectivity at lower temperatures than dry feed. As the temperature was raised, the effect of added water decreased. In experiments at 900C and above, addition of water to the feed had no measurable effect. Example 8 Separation of Oxygen from Air using a Lithium Nitrate Immobilized Molten Salt Membrane Stainless steel woven wire mesh num 304, about 0.02 cm thick, 4 13 micrometers pore size, area about 0.8 cm was coated with molten lithium nitrate by grinding dry lithium nitrate and placing it on the mesh under an atmosphere of dry argon. The cell was closed, connected to a gas manifold and heated to 2850C under a feed flow of 10 cm3 min of nitrogen and permeate flow of 10 cm3 min of helium at 1 atm pressure for about 20 hr.At the end of this time the lithium nitrate had wetted the stainless steel mesh and formed a visibly continuous molten film on one surface of the wire mesh, and thus separated the feed and permeate sides of the cell The cell was then heated to a furnace temperature of 4290C, using a 3 feed flow of 10 cm Smin of zero grade air and a sweep flow on the permeate side of the membrane of 10 cm3 min of helium, both at about 1 atmosphere pressure and 250C The total pressure in the cell during the experiments was about 760 torr. The concentration of gases in the permeate stream was determined by gas chromatography, using a 183 cm 5A molecular sieve column for nitrogen and oxygen, operated isothermally at 60 C. After the system had stabilized at the operating temperature, there was no leak of nitrogen across the membrane, as indicated by very low nitrogen permeability. It was observed that oxygen permeability increased gradually over 42 hours of heating. This was attributed to an increase in the concentration of oxides 6, g 02 in the molten salt. It is proposed that the dissolved oxides in the molten salt catalyzed the reaction EMI28.1 Nitrogen permeability was constant about 12 Barrers . The following results were obtained Hours Permeability Selectivity 4290C Oxygen Barrer S po 2 PoN2 0 243 20 5.8 356 29 10.0 496 41 20.0 990 82 30.9 1530 127 42.3 2065 172 These results show that a lithium nitrate immobilized salt membrane functioned well for a reasonable time, and had good permeability and selectivity for oxygen. Example 9 Separation of Oxygen from Air using a Sodium Nitrate Immobilized Molten Salt Membrane A molten salt membrane of a sodium nitrate was immobilized in a stainless steel wire mesh as in Example 1. The sodium nitrate was loaded onto the stainless steel mesh under an argon atmosphere and the cell was attached to the gas manifold. The cell was heated to 3230C under a feed flow of 10 cm3 min of nitrogen and a permeate flow of 10 cm3 min of helium for about 15 h at 760 Torr. The feed gas was then changed to 10 cm3 min of zero grade air at 760 Torr. The cell was heated gradually to 4500C, but no oxygen was detected in the permeate stream, using the analytical method of Example 1. At 4770C, oxygen was observed in the permeate. An essentially constant value was reached after 4 h. The cell was held at 4770C for 18 h and then the temperature was varied between 4520C and 5250C to determine the effect of temperature on oxygen permeability. Results were Temperature Permeability Selectivity C Oxygen Barrer S Po 2 PoN2 452 58 4 477 172 12 500 439 31 525 1110 79 Nitrogen permeability remained relatively constant, at 12 15Barrer. This example shows that sodium nitrate immobilized molten salt can be used for the separation of oxygen from air.