# Selective conversion of synthesis gas.

## Abstract
Process for selectively converting CO rich synthesis gas to hydrocarbons in the diesel fuel carbon number range, preferably in an otherwise conventional slurry phase reaction, by utilization of a catalyst prepared by co precipitation of cupric and ferric hydroxide, followed by alkaline salt impregnation and activation of the catalyst specie without intervening calcination. Omission of the calcination step, prior to activation, differentiates the catalyst of the present invention from the prior art, wherein all known teachings suggest that such calcination is necessary to enhance catalyst selectivity and activity.

## Claims
1. In the method of converting synthesis gas, including CO and H₂ in a mole ratio of 0.5 1 to 2 1, to C₉ C₂₅ hydrocarbons by Fischer Tropsch reac tion, the improvement consisting of conducting said reaction in the presence of a non calcined catalyst produced by co precipitation of ferric and cupric hydroxide, and then impregnating said co precipitate with a Group IA metal salt.

## Description
This invention was made under DOE contract number DE AC22 80PC30021 and is subject to government rights arising therefrom. This invention relates to a Fischer Tropsch catalyzed process for the selective conversion of synthesis gas to hydrocarbons with a dispropor tionately high concentration of products in the diesel fuel range and to catalysts therefor. Production of hydrocarbon liquid fuels from coal may be accomplished, in part, by the Fischer Tropsch catalyzed synthesis of hydrocarbons from syn thesis gas produced by coal gasification. The Fischer Tropsch synthesis or conversion , however, is un selective in nature, producing molecules with carbon numbers typically in the range 1 40 in proportions controlled by process kinetics. Process efficiency would be enhanced by selective conversion of the syn thesis gas to relatively narrow carbon number range hydrocarbons, for example, a general range of C₉ C₂₅ hydrocarbons for the selective production of diesel fuel. Fischer Tropsch conversion of synthesis gas has heretofore been conducted both in fixed bed, gas solid reactors, gas entrained fluidized bed reactors, and in slurry phase reactors. The former is described by H. H. Storch et al in The Fischer Tropsch and Related Syntheses, Wiley, The maximum fuel product fractions predic table from the Schulz Flory distribution, together with an indication of methane and C₂₆ In general, prior publications indicate that most Fischer Tropsch FT products adhere to the Schulz Flory SF distribution, regardless of catalyst type. This unselective type of polymerization process is represented by a straight line on a plot of log W Satterfield et al specifically concluded that the distribution generally held for iron based FT catalyst with values of alpha ranging from 0.55 to 0.94. Short term success in selective syngas conver sion, by utilization of a proposed metal particle size effect or by use of Co₂ CO₈ on alumina of selective pore size distribution Blanchard, One prior publication particularly pertinent to the present invention is Kolbel et al also suggested however, activ ity, selectivity, efficiency, lifetime...are increased considerably if, after drying, the ferric oxide cata lyst is subjected to annealing at 250 350 C with air or oxygen Kolbel at 245 . The Kolbel et al reference in fact neither suggests nor discloses a process which uses a non annealed or non calcined the terms are believed to be interchangeable form of that catalyst. So far as is known, all others, as well as Kolbel et al, who have utilized such a catalyst have done so with the catalyst in calcined form, in the manner described by Kolbel et al. The objective of the present invention is to improve the selectivity of a Fischer Tropsch catalyzed synthesis gas conversion reaction to hydrocarbon fuel product within relatively narrow carbon number ranges, particularly in the C₅ C₂₅ diesel fuel range. A more particular object of the present invention is to provide such a reaction, the selec tivity and stability of which is improved by the utilization of an improved catalyst. In accordance with the present invention, synthesis gas, and particularly CO rich syngas i.e. CO H₂ ratio of 0.5 1 to 2 1 and particularly 1 1 to 1.5 1 is subjected to Fischer Tropsch catalysis, preferably in a conventional slurry phase reactor with a stable enhanced selectivity catalyst formulated as follows A catalyst precursor is prepared using known technology by precipitation at controlled pH and tem perature in a stirred tubular flow through reactor. Using this technique, solutions of cupric and ferric ions, preferably a ferric nitrate and a cupric nitrate solution are continuously precipitated by reaction with alkaline solution, particularly an alkaline hy droxide such as potassium, lithium, sodium or ammonium hydroxide. The co precipitate is formed from solution at a pH of 5 9 preferably about 7, and a temperature from about 50 C up to the boiling point of the solu tion, preferably about 80 95 C. The co precipitate is filtered and washed and then impregnated with a solu tion of a Group 1A metal sodium, potassium, cesium, rubidium or lithium salt, specifically a salt of an anion which is not poisonous to the catalyst. Such anions include acetate, nitrate, carbonate and bicar bonate. The preferred salt is potassium bicarbonate. The general chemical notation for this product is Fe Cu M, in which M is a Group 1A metal. The impregnated co precipitated product is dried below 250 C, preferably 105 125 C, in air or an inert gas mixture. Calcining of this product is avoided both in the drying step and in the activation step which follows. The dried product, produced as described above, is then activated for use as a cata lyst in the Fischer Tropsch reaction. In order to activate the catalyst, it is first heated in an inert gas such as nitrogen and or helium to a temperature on the order of 100 240 C preferably 170 190 C , for a period of time of 1 24 hours. With the cata lyst at this temperature, it is then activated by exposure to a reducing atmosphere at still higher temperatures and elevated pressure. More specifically, the catalyst is heated over a period of time on the order of 14 60 hours, preferably about 8 20 hours, in stages to the operating temperature and pressure of the catalytic reaction, typically on the order of 300 psig and 240 C. The reducing gas to which the catalyst is exposed for this purpose is generally a hydrogen containing gas and may be the same synthesis gas used in a subsequent reaction, typically with a CO H₂ mole ratio on the order of 0.5 1 to 2 1, preferably on the order of about 0.9 1 to 1.6 1. In the same or a similar reducing atmos phere, the catalyst is then reacted with the CO H₂ mixture to form the hydrocarbon products. Preferably activation occurs in the same reactor as and immedi ately preceeding the catalyzed reaction process itself. The catalyzed reaction is preferably a slurry phase reaction with a synthesis gas preferably in the following parameter ranges For a more complete understanding of the present invention, reference may be made to the following detailed description thereof, taken together with the subjoined claims. Normally, a catalyst of the type used in the present invention, is calcined in air at 250 500 C, before reduction to an active species for use in the Fischer Tropsch catalyzed conversion of synthesis gas to hydrocarbon fuels. It has been discovered that product selectivity is greatly improved if the cata lyst is not calcined in air after the drying stage. Instead, the catalyst is activated without prior cal cination. Most preferably, the catalyst is trans ferred directly to the reactor, as a solid in the case of a fixed bed reactor, or as a suspension in oil for the slurry reactor. The catalyst is then activated For the preferred reaction in a mixed slurry phase, the range of reaction conditions are generally 150 500 psig, 220 270 C and a space velocity of 150 2000 hours ¹. Similarly, the process of this invention may be conducted with a fixed solid or fluidized including gas entrained bed of catalyst. For this alternative, parameter ranges are Figure 1 indicates the enhancement of pro duct selectivity that results from this type of treat ment and activation Example 8 compared with an intermediate calcination in air, of the same catalyst, at 275 C for 48 hours Example 9 between the drying and activation stages. Specifically, Figure 1 illus trates results from a fixed bed reactor, under condi tions which produced a high pressure drop and plugging within a few hours, when the catalyst of Example 8 was used. This plugging is due to the enhanced selec tivity to higher molecular weight products. In the slurry phase, however, it has been possible to operate the catalyst of the present inven tion continuously for up to about 1900 hours with minimal catalyst deactivation and no loss of product selectivity at pressures between 150 500 psig and temperatures of 235 260 C and space velocities of 150 1000 hours ¹ with CO H₂ ratio syngas in the range 0.9 1 to 1.6 1. In these tests, any higher molecular weight material that did not distill over with the product stream, but built up in the reactor, was removed via a filtered sidestream, and then included in the overall product distribution. Typical results obtained with the catalyst prepared according this invention, and certain prior art comparative catalysts, are summarized in Table 1, set forth as Examples 1 9 of which 1 3 and 9 are Comparative Examples. Some of the data for Examples 2 and 5 7 are illustrated in Figures 2 to 4. Figure 2 illustrates the product distribution of Example 7 a slurry phase reaction . Product selectivity was re produced, although centered at C₁₀ compared with C₁₅ in the fixed bed test Example 8 , possibly due to the difference between the continuous nature of the slurry test and the limiting conditions of the fixed bed run. Examples 7 and 8 utilized catalyst from a common batch. Table 2 illustrates elemental analyses of the catalysts used in Examples 4 9. Analytical data is presented for the catalyst in both its dried but unreduced form referred to as unreacted and after reaction. In general these catalysts were formulated in a procedure designed to give a metal ion ratio on the order of 100 0.5 0.2 iron copper potassium car bonate. In its dried and unreduced form, the catalyst is thought to consist primarily of ferric oxide hy drates and hydroxides with small amounts of copper hydroxide and potassium carbonate. Following similar formulation procedures, it is thought that workable catalyst can be produced within a metallic ion concen tration range as follows Iron, at least 50 by wt., preferably at least 65 by wt. Copper 0.01 5 wt. , preferably 0.1 2 and most preferably 0.3 0.7 . Group IA metal generally 0.01 5.0 , preferably 0.1 1 and most preferably 0.05 0.2 . It is important that the catalyst be formed at essentially constant pH and temperature conditions. For that purpose, a stirred flow through reactor is preferred. Using such reactor, with resistive wall heaters thermostatically controlled and reactants and reactor preheated to an essentially constant tempera ture on the order of 90 C, the catalyst referred to in the examples herein were made in general by feeding to the reactor dilute solutions of ferric nitrate and cupric nitrate at rates selected to produced a molar mixture in the reactor of cupric and ferric ions in the proportions desired in the final product, namely 100 0.5. At the same time, ammonium hydroxide was fed at a rate controlled by a pH sensor to maintain the pH essentially constant at about 7. Precipitate removed from outflowing solution mixture was immediately vacuum filtered and washed. Thereafter it was dried and activated in accordance with the process descrip tion set forth above. Typical results for Examples 5 and 6 are illustrated in Figures 3 and 4. They show low CH₄ yields and good selectivity for higher molecular weight products at high time on stream. For exam ple, the data illustrative of Example 5 in Figure 3 is taken at 660 hours 26 days after the beginning of the run. In Figure 4, deviations from a standard Schulz Flory distribution are shown by reference to data from Examples 5 and 6, as compared to results from a standard sintered Fe₂O₃ baseline catalyst Example 2 which conforms closely to a Schulz Flory distribution for comparison. These results show that while the selectivity range is subject to some varia tion, centering between C₁₀ to C₂₅, catalysts prepared in accordance with the present invention consistently show enhanced selectivity in the C₉ C₂₅ range. In the slurry tests, deactivation rates were low, and the catalyst was more active than the standard, sintered iron oxide catalyst Comparative Examples 1 and 2 . For comparison, following is a brief discussion of the prior work reported by Kolbel et al. Co precipitated Fe Cu K was used as a catalyst by Kolbel and Ralek in the 1.6 meter id x 8.6 meter high pilot plant, three phase bubble column reactor at Rheinpreussen in Germany, and possibly also in bench scale column experiments. The activation method Kolbel employed was to heat the slurry rapidly under N₂ or CO₂ at operating pressure to 15 to 30 C above operating temperature, and then switch suddenly to 1.3 1.5 CO H₂ at high space velocity. After reduction was complete, as monitored by the exit CO₂, the tem perature was lowered to the operating conditions. Published data for Kolbel s slurry operations are listed in Table 3, which also compares typical product distributions obtained from commercial FT units at SASOL in South Africa. The operation at Rheinpreussen was geared to maximize the yield of gasoline. Some doubt exists about the overall product analysis, how ever, since the data reported in Table 3 was stated to be from a sample from large storage tanks which contained the products from one of the longer opera ting periods. It may not, therefore, fully represent the percentage of light products obtained from the plant, which were removed by oil scrubbing and acti vated carbon absorption. With this in mind, a com parison of the product fractions in Table 3 indicates that previous slurry phase operations, together with the SASOL reactors, gave products which were generally unselective and tended to conform to the expected S F distribution. The diesel fuel product fractions ob tained by Kolbel are less than those expected from the S F normal distribution. Most importantly, calculations from the data in the Kolbel et al publication indicate that the calcined catalyst used by Kolbel et al deactivated and the reaction selectivity deteriorated relatively quickly. In contrast, the catalyst in the catalyzed process of the present invention is stable and main tains its selective catalytic activity over an exten ded period of time. Utilization of a co precipitated Fe Cu M M Group 1A metal catalyst as taught herein enhances the overall thermal efficiency of the indirect lique faction process for producing hydrocarbon fuels from coal. The yield of desired liquid fuel fraction in a single pass, particularly in the diesel fuel range, is enhanced and this improves the integration of the second stage Fischer Tropsch reaction with the initial gasification step. Moreover, the selective catalyst used in the process of the present invention is stable over an extended period of time, further contributing to the efficiency of the present invention.