# Ionically cross linked low molecular weight ternary copolymer.

## Abstract
An ionically cross linked low molecular weight ternary copolymer which comprises reacting at least a part or the whole of acid groups in a low molecular weight ternary copolymer with a metallic cation selected from valences of 1 to 3, a content of ethylene being 80 99.5 mol and a total content of acrylic or methacrylic acid and alkyl acrylate or methacrylate being 0.5 20 mol in the above low molecular weight ternary copolymer, a ratio of composition between the acid and the ester being 10 90 to 90 10 , and a viscosity average molecular weight of the low molecular weight ternary copolymer being within a range of 500 20,000.

## Claims
CLAIMS I. An lonically cross linked low molecular weight ternary copolymer which comprises reacting at least a part or the whole of acid groups in a low molecular weight ternary copolymer with a metallic cation selected from valences of 1 to 3, a content of ethylene being 80 99.5 molX and a total content of acrylic or methacrylic acid and alkYl acrylate or methacrYlate being 0.5 20 molX in said low molecular weight ternary copolymer, a ratio of composition between said acid and said ester being 10 90 to 90 10 . and a viscosity average molecular weight of said low molecular weight ternary copolymer being within a range of 500 20,000. 2. An ionically cross linked low molecular weight ternary copolymer as claimed in claim 1 wherein alkyl group of said alkyl acrylate or methacrylate has 1 4 carbon atoms. 3. An ionically cross linked low molecular weight ternary copolymer as claimed in claim I wherein said low molecular weight ternary copolymer is obtained by thermally degrading ethylene alkyl acrylate or methacrylate copolymer having a comparatively high molecular weight. 4. An ionically cross linked low molecular weight ternary copolymer as claimed in claim 3 wherein said alkyl acrylate or methacrylate is ethyl acrylate or methacrylate. 5. An ionically cross linked low molecular weight ternary copolymer as claimed in claim 3 wherein a melt index of said ethylene alkyl acrylate or methacrylate copolymer having a comParatively high molecular weight is 300 g 10 min. or less, and an alkyl acrylate or methacrylate content in the molecular chains is 0.5 to 25 mol . 6. A Process for Producing an ionically cross linked low molecular weight ternary copolymer which comprises reacting at least a part or the whole of acid groups in a low molecular weight ternary copolymer with a metallic cation selected from valences of 1 to 3, a content of ethylene being 80 99.5 mol and a total content of acrylic or methacrylic acid and alkyl acrylate or methacrylate being 0.5 20 mol in said low molecular weight ternary copolymer, a ratio of composition between said acid and said ester being 10 90 to 90 10 . and a viscosity average molecular weight of said low molecular weight ternary copolymer being within a range of 500 20.000. 7. A process for producing an ionically cross linked low molecular weight ternary copolymer as claimed in claim 6 wherein alkyl group of said alkyl acrylate or methacrylate has 1 4 carbon atoms. 8. A process for producing an ionically cross linked low molecular weight ternary copolymer as claimed in claim 6 wherein said low molecular weight ternary copolymer is obtained by thermally degrading ethylene alkyl acrylate or methacrylate copolymer having a comparatively high molecular weight. 9. A process for producing an ionically cross linked low molecular weight ternary copolymer as claimed in claim 8 wherein said alkyl acrylate or methacrylate is ethyl acrylate or methacrylate. 10. A process for producing an ionically cross linked low molecular weight ternary copolymer as claimed in claim 8 wherein a melt index of said ethylene alkyl acrylate or methacrylate copolymer having a comparatively high molecular weight is 300 gS10 min. or less, and an alkYl acrylate or methacrylate content in the molecular chains is 0.5 to 25 mol . 11. A composition comprising A 100 parts by weight of at least one polymer selected from the group consisting of thermoplastic resins, thermosetting resins, rubber, and the mixture thereof and B 0.1 15 parts by weight of an ionically crosslinked low molecular weight ternary copolymer prepared by reacting at least a part or the whole of acid groups in a low molecular weight ternary copolymer with a metallic cation selected from valences of 1 to 3, a content of ethylene being 80 99.5 mol and a total content of acrylic or methacrylic acid and alkyl acrylate or methacrylate being 0.5 20 mol in said low molecular weight ternary coPolymer, a ratio of composition between said acid and said ester being 10 90 to 90 10 , and a viscosity average molecular weight of said low molecular weight ternary coPolYmer being within a range of 500 20,000. 12. A composition comprising A 100 parts by weight of at least one polymer selected from the group consisting of thermoplastic resins, thermosetting resins, rubber, and the mixture thereof B 0.1 150 parts by weight of a fine inert material and C 0.1 20 parts by weight of an ionically crosslinked low molecular weight ternary copolymer prepared by reacting at least a part or the whole of acid groups in a low molecular weight ternary copolymer with a metallic cation selected from valences of 1 to 3, a content of ethylene being 80 99.5 mol and a total content of acrylic or methacrylic acid and alkyl acrylate or methacrylate being 0.5 20 molX in said low molecular weight ternary copolymer, a ratio of composition between said acid and said ester being 10 90 to 90 10, and a viscosity average molecular weight of said low molecular weight ternary copolymer being within a range of 500 20,000.

## Description
SPECIFICATION 1. Title of the Inventio IRONICALLY CROSS LINKED LOW MOLECULAR WEIGHT TERNARY COPOLYMER 2. Background of the Invention 1 Field of the Invention The present invention relates to a low molecular weight ternarY copolymer cross linked ionically with a novel metallic ion and the composition wherein such ionically cross linked low molecular weight ternary copolymer is utilized. More specifically. the present invention relates to an ionlcally cross linked low molecular weight ternary copolymer prepared by reacting at least a part or the whole of acid groups in a low molecular weight ternary copolymer of ethyleneacrylic acid alkyl acrylate or ethylene methacrylic acid alkyl methacrylate with a metallic cation selected from a valence of 1, 2 and 3 as well as a composition obtained by incorporating said copolymer with a synthetic resin such as thermoplastic resin or the like and or a fine inert material. 2 DescriPtion of the Prior Art A number of ethYlene copolymers ionically cross linked with metallic ion have heretofore been known. As an old example. Japanese Patent Publication No. 6810 1964 discloses an ionically cross linked copolymer prepared by reacting a copolymer of ethylene . B ethylenically unsaturated carboxylic acid with a water soluble ionic metal compound. Furthermore Japanese Patent Publication No. 31556 1974 is characterized by saponification reaction of a coPolyMer prepared from ethylene and a. B ethylenfcally unsaturated carboxylic ester by the use of a basic metallic compound In aliphatic alcohols or an organic solvent containing aliphatic alcohols.and acid treatment of the saponified reaction product. In both the above prior inventions. however. only ionic cross linked products of high molecular weight are obtained. With respect to ionic copolymers of low molecular weight.metallic salts of binary copolymers have been known. For example. according to Japanese Patent Laid open No. 128704 1982.low molecular weight copolymer salts obtained bY neutralizing up to 100 a low molecular copolymer of copolymer acid comprised of ethylene and an . B ethulenically unsaturated carboxylic acid and having a molecular weight of about 500 to about 15000 with cations of metals selected from Group IIA of the Periodic Table of Elements have been proposed. It may be said. however. that this prior art directs to low molecular weight copolymer salts of binary copolymer acid comprised of essentially ethylene and a. B ethylenically unsaturated carboxylic acid. The above described binary copolymer salts involve problems such as corrosion of apparatus and the like, besides it is difficult to produce copolymer acid having a desirable molecular weight and acid value. because of high temperature and hiqh pressure in the case where such copolymer acids have previously been produced. Thus. when it is intended that such copolymer acids as described above are used as lubricants and dispersion aids for various polymers. melting point and softening point of these copolymer acids cannot be freely controlled so as to be adapted for the various polymers. so that there is a tendency of lacking wide adaptability.3. Objects of the invention It Is a first object of the present invention to provide a novel ironically cross linked low molecular weight ternary copolymer having wide adaptability suitable for lubricants, dispersion aids, coupling agents, crystallization Promoters crystal nucleus agents, paints, adhesives. sealing materials, textile treatments and the like for varieties of polymer and inert material. A second object of the present invention is to provide compositions comprised of various polymers and said lonicallu cross linked low molecular weight ternary copolymer, and these compositions are those for improving workability. moldability and the like properties of varieties of polymer. A third object of the present invention is to provide compositions comprised of various polymers, various fine inert materials and said ionically cross linked low molecular weight ternary copolymer, and these compositions are applied for fine inert material as dispersion aids, coupling agents.crystallization promoters or the like and function to improve dispersibility of fillers. pigments and the like. or dimensional stabilitY mechanical strength and the like of molded articles. 4. Detailed DescriPtion of the Invention The present invention has been made as a result of concentrating Inventors energies on the above mentioned problems In this connection. the present first invention provides an ionically cross linked low molecular weight ternary copolymer characterized by reacting at least a part or the whole of acid groups in a low molecular weight ternary copolymer with a metallic cation selected from valences of 1 to 3, a content of ethylene being 80 99.5 molX and a total content of acrylic or methacrylic acid and alkyl acrylate or methacrylate being 0.5 20 mol in said low molecular weight ternary copolymer. a ratio of composition between said acid and said ester being 10 90 to 90 10 . and a viscosity average molecular weight of said low molecular weight ternary copolymer being within a range of 500 20.000. The low molecular weight ternary copolymer used in the present invention may be directly produced in accordance with a common polymerizing process. but preferably a thermally degraded product which is produced by pyrolyzing commercially available ethylene alkyl acrylate or methacrylate hereinafter referred to simply as tmeth acrylate is utilized. Namely, ethylene acrylic or methacrylic acid hereinafter referred to simply as meth acrylic acid alkyl meth acrylate copolymer can be produced from a low molecular weight ternary copolymer which Is said thermally degraded product in accordance with such a manner that. for example. ethylene alkyl meth acrylate copolymer having a comparatively high molecular weight is reacted at a temperature of 200 5000C and a pressure of 5 500 kg cm2 In the presence of water in inert atmosphere.The ethylene alkyl meth acrYlate copolymers referred in the present invention are such commercially available ethylene alkyl meth acrylate copolymers of comparatively high molecular weight within such extent where these copolymers are easily produced by. for example, highpressure copolymerizing process in which a free radical catalyst is used and which is publicly known in the art, and a melt index of said ethylene alkyl meth acrylate copolymer being about 300 g 10 min. or less, an alkyl acrylate content in the molecular chain being about 0.5 25 molX, and preferably 2 15 mol . While a manner for producing the inert atmosphere in the present invention is not specifically limited. such a manner that an inert gas such as nitrogen. carbon dioxide gas. argon. helium or the like is passed through the reaction system to completely exclude air therefrom is suitable, and among others use of nitrogen is preferable. Furthermore the reaction temperature and pressure in case of embodying the present invention depend upon factors of properties of materials to be used. i.e.. average molecular weight of ethylene alkyl tmeth acrylate copolymer, content of alkyl acrylate. degree in degrading polymer, besides amount of extent water and the like. but usually such a reaction temperature. reaction pressure. and reaction time is within each range of 200 500 0C. 5 500 kg cm2. and 1 10 hours.preferably 2 6 hours. respectively. In the case where said reaction temperature is 2000C or less. degradation of copolymer is scarcely observed, whilst when the temperature exceeds 5000C, alkyl acrylate in the copolymer volatilizes, besides decarboxylating reaction and the like occur. so that pyrolysis becomes strong and this is undesirable. Although a viscosity average molecular weight of said low molecular weight ternary copolymer is different dependent upon its various applications. it is generally within a range of about 500 20,000. and Preferably about 1,000 15,000. Viscosity average molecular weight referred in the present invention is determined by measuring intrinsic viscosity Ert at l350C in decal in and calculating in accordance with the following equation E KMa K 14,3 x 10 5 K 14.3 x 10 dQXg . a 0.82 Among the low molecular weight ternary copolymer thus produced. those having an ethylene content within a range of 80 99.5 mol . and a meth acrylic acid and alkyl meth acrylate total content within a range of 0.5 20 mol are utilized. Because of cross linking due to metal ion in the present invention, a ratio of moieties of meth acrylic acid and alkyl tmeth acrylate existing in the molecular chains of the low molecular weight copolymer produced is an important factor for deciding Physical properties of the ionically cross linked copolymers. For example. it is necessary for adjusting the meth acrylic acid moiety existing in the molecular chains of a ethylene meth acrylic acid alkyl meth acrylate ternary copolymer in order to obtain a desirable acid value, so that amount of the remaining alkyl meth acrylate moiety changes.Moreover. when content of alkyl meth acrylate in a raw material of comparatively high molecular weight ethylene alkyl meth acrylate is changed. it is possible that amount of meth acrylic acid moiety in the low molecular weight ternary copolymer produced is kept constant and amount of alkyl meth acrylate moiety is changed. In other words, when acid value is maintained at constant and amount of alkYl meth acrylate is changed, it is possible to vary melting point and softening point of low molecular weight copolymers. whereby these copolymers can be applied to varieties of use. Namely. it is important in the present invention that a ratio of the meth acrYlic acid moiety and alkyl meth acrylate moiety existing in its molecular chains is maintained within a range of 10 90 . In the case where meth acrylic acid moiety is 10 or less. ionic cross linking is insufficient in respect of metal ion, whilst when exceeded 90 or more. the resulting product becomes one being substantially binary copolymer and this is undesirable. The alkyl meth acrylate in said ethylene meth acrylic acid alkyl meth acrylate copolymers involves preferably an alkyl group having 1 4 carbon atoms such as methyl. ethyl. isopropyl. n butyl. isobutyl. tertiary butyl or the like group. Such metal ion to be added to said low molecular weight ternarY copolymer in the present invention is preferably added in the form of aqueous solution of a metallic compound having ai valence of 1 3 and which is selected from a first ion group consisting of 1 Na . , Li , 2 Mug , Ca , Ba . Zinc . Sub Cut , Fe . 3 AQ f, Fe . and the like as well as the.mixture thereof. and among others. alkaline metal ion Is particularly preferable. Furthermore such metallic compounds constituting a second ion group include. as so called basic metallic compound. sodium hydroxide. magnesium hydroxide potassium hydroxide, zinc hydroxide, calcium oxide1 sodium methoxide. sodium ethoxide, magnesium oxide. nickel acetate, sodium carbonate, magnesium acetate. zinc acetate and the like, and aqueous solution of these metallic compounds may preferably be employed. More preferable metallic cations are Na . K , Mg . Ca and Zn cations. and the low molecular weight ternary copolymers of the present invention are cross linked therewith.Cation containing materials are preferably hydroxides. oxides. oxylates. or acetate group According to the present invention, arbitrarily oligomerized cross linked ternary copolymers may be produced by reacting ethylene alkyl meth acrylate copolymer of a comparatively high molecular weight as its raw material in the presence of water and a metallic ion in inert atmosphere under conditions at a temperature of 200 5000C and a pressure of 5 500 kg cm2. and the most important factors in these reaction conditions are the presence of water and the temperature conditions. In this connection, the water In the present invention Includes one in the form of liquid, steam, and the mixture thereof. DePendent upon said temperature conditions and amount of water, It Is Possible to maintain molecular weight of said ethylene alkyl meth acrylate copolymer at any low molecular weight, and at the same time an lonically cross linked ethylenealkyl meth acrylate meth acryllc acid ternary copolymer in which arbitrary amount of alkyl meth acrylate remains can be produced. The reaction between acid groups in the low molecular weight ternary copolymer and a metallic cation in the present invention is a neutralizing reaction, and at the same time or succeedingly ionic cross linkages are produced. When this neutralized reaction product is compared with an unneutralized product, melt viscosity increases remarkably with increase in degree of neutralization. From this fact. it is found that there are ionic cross linkages so that this is clearly distinguished from a mere salt. Metallic ion may be added in accordance with either a manner wherein such a metallic ion is added at the same time in decomposition reaction of said ethylene alkyl meth acrylate copolymer, or a manner the produced low molecular weight ternary copolymer is post crosslinked with such a metallic cation. Method for postcrosslinking Is as follows. A ternary copolymer Is supplied together with a cation containing material to a reaction vessel.Oxygen content In the reaction vessel is made minimum as much as.possible, and volatile reaction products are removed during the reaction. Temperature In the reaction vessel is controlled while maintaining such temperature at melting point or more, and the reaction mixture is continuously agitated to react the same. A part or the whole of meth acrylic acid in low molecular weight ternary copolynier may be reacted wlth said metallic cation, but preferable is to react 15 through 90 of the meth acrylic acid. The copolymer thus cross linked with the metallic cation is in solid state, so that the ionically cross linked copolymer is more tough and more fragile than such copolymer which has not yet been cross linked. The cross linked product can be ground with a hardness of approximately the same with that of powder. When heated, ionic cross linkases begin to break so that the viscosity of copolymer decreases. With the progress of cutting in ionic cross linkages. characteristic features of the melt become close to those of the copolymer itself. In the present invention. the low molecular weight ternary copolymer has a low molecular weight and a low viscosity. The melt is easy to flow and does not exhibit generally fabrication quality of typical thermoplastic resin. A low molecular weight ternary copolymer ionically crosslinked with a metallic cation is useful as a lubricant or dispersion aid for polymers. Such polymer lubricant has an acid value of 10 to 160 before the cross linking of copolymer. Acid value is indicated by milligram number of potassium hydroxide required for neutralizlng 1 gram of ternary copolymer. The ionically cross linked low molecular weight ternary copolymers according to the present invention have remarkable advantages as the undermentioned lubricants and dispersion aids, besides they are also applicable as coupling agents, crystallization promotors, crystal nucleus agents, paints.adhesives. sealing materials, textile treatments, greige goods, modifiers for polymer, modifiers for printing ink, masking reagents for film and the like. The present second invention provides a composition comprising A 100 parts by weight of at least one polymer selected from the group consisting of thermoplastic resins, thermosetting resins, rubber, and the mixture thereof, and B 0.1 15 parts by weight of an ionically cross linked low molecular weight ternary copolymer prepared by reacting at least a part or the whole of acid groups in a low molecular weight ternary copolymer with a metallic cation selected from valences of 1 to 3, a content of ethylene being 80 99.5 mol and a total content of acrylic or methacrylic acid and alkyl acrylate or methacrylate being 0.5 20 molX in said low molecular weight ternary copolymer, a ratio of composition between said acid and said ester being 10 90 to 90 10, and a viscosity average molecular weight of said low molecular weight ternary copolymer being within a range of 500 20.000. and the presence of said lonically cross linked low molecular weight ternary copolymer exhibits remarkable advantages as a lubricant In the case of processing of said polymer. Lubricant is added to a polymer in order to decrease molten sticking thereof. to improve flowabilitu thereof, and to more easily process the polymer. Furthermore such lubricant is generally used for decreasing melt viscosity of a polymer at its processing temperature and or decreasing such friction between g the polymer and the metal surface of a processing machine. Typical examples of polymerizing lubricant known in the art include paraffin wax polyethylene wax calcium stearate esters. alcohols and acids of stearate esters, acids and salts of montan base stearates amide wax and the like. Moreover it is known in the art to use an ionic copolymer additive in varieties of Polymer for improving characteristic features thereof. Such ionic copolymers disclosed in the art may be prepared from copolymers of a olefin and a, B ethylenically unsaturated carboxylic acid. These copolymers. however. exhibit generally high molecular weight, and they can improve physical properties such as impact resistance, but cannot improve polymer properties relating to the processing therefor. On one hand, it is difficult to conclude that said low molecular weight binary copolymer salt Japanese Patent Laidopen No. 128704 1982 involves sufficient applicability as lubricant or dispersion aid for Polymers, because said binary coPolymer salt cannot freely control melting point and softening point of the polymers in the case where the acid concentration acid value of said copolymer salt Is constant. The ionically cross linked low molecular weight ternary copolymer according to the present invention has wider applicability than that of said binary copolymer, so that said ternary copolymer is utilized for varieties of lubricant. Examples of said polymers include homopolymers such as low , medium and high density polyethylene, polypropylene, polybutene l, poly 4 methyl pentene 1 or the like, copolymers oi ethylene or propylene, as their major component, and the other olefin such as ethylene propylene copolymer, ethylene butene 1 copolymer, ethylene hexene l copolymer, propylene ethylene copolymer or the like, besides polyolefin polymers such as ethulene vinyl acetate copolymer or the like, polystyrene polymers, ethylene vinyl acetate copolymer saponified products,Polyvinyl alcohol polymers, polyamide polymers such as nylon 6, 66, 12 or the like, polyester polymers such as polyethylene terephthalate, polybutylene terephthalate or the like, thermoplastic resins such as polyvinyl chloride polymers, ABS polymer. polycarbonate polymers. polyphenylene oxide, polyphenylene sulfide, polyether sulfone, polyarylate, polyether ketone, polyether imide, polyimide. polyamide imide, petroleum resin, fluorine polymers or the like, thermosetting resins such as phenolic resins, epoxides, urethane resins, urea resin, melamine resin, unsaturated polyester resins, guanamine resin, diallyl phthalate resin, vinyl ester resin, furan resin or the like, and synthetic or natural rubbers such as ethylenepropylene copolymer rubber, ethylene propylene diene copolymer rubber, isoprene rubber. butyl rubber, styrene butadiene copolymer rubber, polubutadiene, styrene acrylonitrile copolymer rubber, polyurethane rubber, chlorosulfonated polyethylene, fluorine rubber, silicone rubber, Thiokol or the like. The composition according to the present invention may contain 0.1 15 parts, preferably 0.5 10 parts, and more preferably 1.0 8 parts by weight of said ionically crosslinked low molecular weight ternary copolymer Per 100 parts by weight of such a polymer as described above. Lubricating action of the ionically cross linked low molecular weight ternary copolymer according to the present invention acts upon both the inner and outer surfaces of polymer to be processed. Said ionicalIy cross linked low molecular weight ternary copolymers exhibit excellent thermal stability and function on the above described varieties of polymer. For example, such a self lubricating agent for use in polyolefins represented by low density polyethylene, ethylene a olef in copolymer low density Polyethylene. high density polyethylene and polypropylene as well as styrene polymer or the like relates to compatibility of the lubricant with polymer to be lubricated.In case of selecting lubricant, physical properties to be taken into consideration are its viscosity and hardness relating to molecular weight. whilst chemical compatibility is also important. Chemical compatibility is based on mutual action between chemical structure and comPonent such as solubility or the like between molten lubricant and polymer melt. When a lubricant is suitably in conformity with a polymer to be lubricated, the lubricant acts more favourably on the interior of the polymer. In addition to solubility. melting point of lubricant, particularly internally acting lubricant Is also important.When melting point of a lubricant is substantially the same with that of a polymer to be lubricated, the molten lubricant acts upon the interior of its polymer melt thereby decreasing torque at the time of processing. On one hand, when melting point of a lubricant is considerably lower than that of a polymer to be lubricated, such lubricant melts before the polymer softens completely. This results in excessive lubrication of the polymer by means of the lubricant. in extruder, such excessive hrication occurs in feed and transfer sections thereof. On the other hand. when melting point of a lubricant is too high, a polymer melts first so that the lubricant exhibits excessive lubrication. and its torque decreases until both of them melt.In this case, although torque decreases, processing is not observed so that slipping state appears. Accordingly, the closer temperatures are the better with respect to softening points or melting points of both lubricant and polymer. In this respect, the low molecular weight ternary copolymers according to the present invention have an advantage of being capable of freely controlling their melting point and softening point. Said lubricants are useful for method of processing polymers in various processing operations such as molding, extrusion and the l4ke as well as mixing operations including roll milling, extrusion mixing. and internal mixing by means of Banburu mixer or the like. A polymer to be processed Is preferably pre blended with the lubricant according to the present invention. Such pre blending is a mere physical blending of the pellet polymer with the powdery or pellet form lubricant. This blend Is supplied to a processing equipment including molding equipment extruder. mill. mixing extruder. or internal mixer. Polymer Is separately supplied from lubricant to a processing equipment in mutual manner and dependent uPon the processing equipment used. Polymer is processed by means of assistance of lubricant.The lubricants according to the present invention may be used for processing a polymer at a temperature of from melting point of the polymer to about 400 0C. Furthermore Japanese Patent Publication Nos. 26225 1970 and 26226 1 970 disclose a composition consisting of polyester such as Polyethylene terephthalate or the like, ethylene, and an ionic copolymer of a. ss unsaturated carboxylic acid and wherein said ionic copolymer increases rate of crystallization and improves form stability of molded articles. However, the ionically cross linked low molecular weight ternary copolymers according to the present invention elevate much more the above described advantages. and they function also as crystallization promotor or nucleating agent. The present third invention provides a composition comprising A 100 parts by weight of at least one polymer selected from the group consisting of thermoplastic resins, thermosetting resins, rubber, and the mixture thereof B 0.1 150 parts b weight of a fine inert material and the ionically cross linked low molecular weight ternary copolymer according to the present invention, i.e., C 0.1 20 parts by weight of an ionically crosslinked low molecular weight ternary copolymer prepared by reacting at least a part or the whole of acid groups in a low molecular weight ternarY copolymer with a metallic cation selected from valences of 1 to 3, a content of ethylene being 80 99.5 mol and a total content of acrylic or methacrylic acid and alkyl acrylate or methacrylate being 0.5 20 mol in said low molecular weight ternary copolymer, a ratio of composition between said acid and said ester being 10 90 to 90 10 . and a viscosity average molecular weight of said low molecular weight ternary copolymer being within a range of 500 20,000, and the presence of said ionically cross linked low molecular weight ternary copolymer exhibits remarkable advantages in the case where said fine inert material is dispersed into said polymer, so that said ionically cross linked low molecular weight ternary copolymer is utilized as a dispersion aid. Moreover said ionically cross linked low molecular weight ternary copolymer may be used as a coupling agent and possesses also such function of suitably activating the surface of the fine inert material. Heretofore4 a typical example of the dispersion aid as described above includes low molecular weight polyethylene homopo I ymer. Low molecular weight polyethylene homopolymer has been partially utilized as compatible dispersion aid for polymers, but It cannot be used for nylons polystyrene. polycarbonate. and polyester as dispersion aid. because of Incompatibility thereof. In this connection, the ionically cross linked low molecular weight ternary copolymers according to the present invention involve epoch making advantage as dispersion aid. More specifically. the dispersion aids according to the present invention are useful for dispersins a fine inert material into polymer. With respect to the object of the present invention, the inert materials to be used are those which are not molten at the melting point of a polymer into which such fine inert materials are dispersed. In general. an average diameter of a material to be dispersed is 100 microns or less, and a common diameter thereof is 50 micron or less. Category of materials which may be dispersed by means of the dispersion aids according to the present invention involves inorganic, organic. natural and synthetic pigments lake dyestuffs insoluble dyestuffs fillers flame retardants antioxidants stabilizers and their simulants. These typical materials include titanium dioxide. zinc oxide. calcium carbonate, barytes. silica and china clay white lead carbon black red lead lead chrome pigment Venetian Red Persian Blue chrome oxides chrome green copper blue and cobalt blue. Typical lake dYestuffs include alumina dyed with a solution of natural organic colorants and coal tar colorants deposited from solutions of various coal tar dyestuffs by means of metal salts. tannin or other suitable reagents. Typically. fillers may be selected from varieties of mineral. metal. metal oxide, siliceous earth, and metal salt.An example of these fillers includes glass fiber, alumina, feldspar, asbestos, talc, calcium carbonate, clay, carbon black, quartz. novaculite and, as the other forms, silica, kaolinite, bentonite, garnet, mica, sapo nite, beldellite or the like. The above described fillers are for the purpose of a mere explanation. but the fillers used in the present invention are not limited thereto. In the present invention. 0.1 to 150 parts. preferably 0.1 to 70 parts by weight of fine inert material nay be dispersed into 100 parts by weight of polymer. A lower concentration 0.1 to 1 part by weight of such fine inert material per 100 parts by weight of polymer is applicable for direct blending of a low concentration material such as a colorant or the like. A higher concentration material of about 10 parts by weight or more is directly introduced into Polymer.A high concentration material of about 10 to 70 parts by weight per 100 parts by weight of polymer is utilized for masterbatch of a colorant concentrate or the like in order that such high concentration material is introduced into much more the same or different polymer. The dispersion aids according to the present invention may be used for varieties of polymer, and examples thereof include said thermoplastic resins. thermosetting resins, rubbers. and the mixtures thereof. The dispersion aid of the present invention may be 0.1 20 parts. preferably 0.1 10 parts by weight with respect to 100 parts by weight of polymer. The dispersion aids according to the present invention can be prepared by means of any publicly known process in the art for producing ionically cross linked low molecular weight ternary copolymers. The dispersion aids of the present invention exhibit excellent thermal stability. and they may be used for varieties of polymer. The dispersion aids of the invention do not volatilize or discolor during processing. In definition, comPatibiIity may be concluded as such ability to keep a situation where two or more of components are blended with each other so that a certain component is homogeneously dispersed in the other components Physical compatibility depends upon processing conditions as well as physical properties of a dispersion aid and a polymer.Compatibility of a dispersion aid with a polymer relates to physical properties of the dispersion aid by which viscosity and hardness of said ionically crosslinked low molecular weight ternary copolymer concerning the molecular weight are influenced Furthermore chemical compatibility is also important. and which is based on mutual action between components such as chemical structure, solubility between molten copolymer and polymer melt or the like. Such dispersion aid having the more favorable compatibility with a polymer exhibits the more homogeneous dlspersibi 11 ty. In addition to compatibility, melting point of the dispersion aids is also an important factor. In the maximum dispersion, melting point of such dispersion aid should be kept at low temperature as much as possible accompanied with no excessive lubrication. Generally, such dispersion aid melts before a polymer into which a fine material is dispersed melts.With flow of the material through resin, the dispersion aid wets the material and draws the same along said material. The present invention includes a method for treating polymer in order to finally maintain the maximum dispersion of inert material. At first. a polymer, a dispersion aid, and a material to be dispersed are firmly blended with each other. The dispersion aid and polymer are in powdery form, pellet or tip shape, whilst the material to be dispersed is preferably powdery. Then, the blend is fed to a means which melts the blend at a higher temperature of both the melting points of the polymer and dispersion aid and compounds the blend. Otherwise the dispersion aid may be firmly admixed with the material to be dispersed. The admixture of the dispersion aid and the material to be dispersed is then mixed with the polymer. and the final mixture is molten and blended. The dispersion aid and the material to be dispersed thus molten and blended are then formed into pellet or other suitable shape, and they are firmly either admixed or molten and blended with the polymer. Such melting and blending means may include molding equipment, extruder, mill. mixing extruder, internal mixer and the like. The dispersion aid according to the present invention may be incorporated in a polymer at a temperature of the melting point of the polymer or more through about 400 C. Then, the polymer product thus formed and blended is collected. Some examples will be described hereinbelow for the sake of explaining the true nature of the present invention as well as a method for embodying the invention, but it should not be considered that the present invention is limited to such detailed description. The present invention relates to a novel. lonically cross linked low molecular weight ternary copolymer. and which can be easily and arbitrarily oligomerized from a commercially available high molecular weight binary copolymer. Accordingly, properties required for lubricant or dispersion aid can be freely controlled in the present ionically cross linked low molecular weight ternary copolymers, so that they involve wide applicability. Furthermore the ionically cross linked low molecular weight ternary copolymers according to the present invention possess not only remarkable advantages as lubricant and dispersion aid, but also functions of crystallization promotor, nucleating agent, and coupling agent. Moreover the ionically cross linked low molecular weight ternary copolymers according to the present invention are utilized as modifiers or the like for said paints, adhesives.textile treatments. sealing materials, and polymers. The invention will be described In more detail hereinbelow in conjunction with examples.Reference ExamPles I 4 A pressure vessel of 3.8 Q internal volume and equipped with a magnetic stirrer was charged with 2 kg of ethylene ethyl acrylate copolymer ethyl acrylate content being 4.4 molt, melt index being 9 g 10 min. together with 1 kg of water. Nitrogen gas was bubbled from the bottom of said vessel for 1 hour to completely exclude oxygen dissolved in the water. Then, pressurizing 50 kg cm2 and releasing 1 kg cm2 operations of nitrogen gas were repeated five times with respect to air inside said pressure vessel, and when oxygen concentration in the system was measured Brady method , it was 1 ppm or less. The vessel was then heated. whereby thermal degradation was effected in nitrogen atr.sphere at 350 0C under 100 kg cm2 for 4 hours. It was found from infrared absorption curve that the product was ethylene acrylic acid ethyl acrylate ternary copolymer1 the composition of which involved 95.6 mol ethylene 1460 cm 1 , 3.0 mol acrylic acid 1700 cm 1 , and 1.4 mol ethyl acrylate 1730 cm 1 , and a viscosity average molecular weight of which was 5,000. Furthermore the raw material ethylene ethyl acrylate copolymer in Reference Example 1 was pyrolytically decomposed at each temperature of 3400C and 330 0C to prepare a product having a molecular weight of 7,000 Reference Example 2 and a product having a molecular weight of 10,000 Reference Example 3 , respectively. and analyzed results of the composition or the like thereof are indicated in Table 1. Moreover. as Reference Example 4, the raw material ethylene ethyl acrylate copolymer hereinafter referred to simply as EEA in Reference Example 1 was replaced by one having an ethyl acrylate content of 2.0 mol and a melt index of.5.0 g 10 min., and degraded thermally as in the case ofReference Example 1. The results thereof are indicated in Table 1.Examples I 8 A pressure vessel of 3.8 Q internal volume and equipped with a magnetic stirrer was charged with 2 kg of ethylene ethyl acrylate copolymer ethyl acrylate content being 4.4 mol , melt index being 9 g 10 min. together with 1 kg of water. Nitrogen sas was bubbled from the bottom of said vessel for 1 hour to completely exclude oxygen dissolved in the water. Then,Pressurizing 50 kg cm2 and releasing 1 kg cm2 operations of nitrogen gas were repeated five times with respect to air inside said pressure vessel, and when oxygen concentration in the system was measured Brady method , it was 1 ppm or less.The vessel was then heated, whereby the raw material was reacted under the same conditions with those of Reference Example 1, i.e., in nitrogen atmosphere at 3500C under 100 kg cm2 for 4 hours. Thereafter, the reaction product was cooled to 200 0C, and an aqueous solution prepared by dissolving 30 g of sodium hydroxide in 100 cc of water was poured into the reaction product while succeedlngly controlling the same at 2000C, the resulting mixture was reacted at 2000C under 50 kg cm2 for 1 hour while agitating it, and then cooled by standing in air.It was found from infrared absorption curve that the product was ethylene acrylic acid ethyl acrylate ternary copolymer crosslinked with Na , the composition of which involved 95.6 molX ethylene 1460 cm 1 and 1.4 mol ethyl acrylate 1730 cm 1 . and absorption displacement of carboxyl group based on acrylic acid 1700 cm 1 cross linked with Na ion and ionic crosslinkage was observed at 1570 cm 1 in 40X theoretical neutralization amount 1 mol of Na ion was equivalent to 1 mol of acrylic acid . In Example 2, amount of sodium hydroxide to be poured was increased to 70 g, and a cross linked product having 90 theoretical neutralization percentage was Produced in accordance with a similar manner to that of Example 1. in Examples 3 6, thermal degradation was effected under similar conditions to those of Reference Examples 2 3, whilst a prescribed amount of Na ion was reacted by a similar manner to that of Example 1. The results thereof are shown in Table 1. In Examples 7 8, thermal degradation was effected under similar conditions to those of Reference Example 4, whilst reaction was conducted by a similar manner to that of Example 1.The results thereof are shown in Table 1. As indicated by melt viscosity In Table 1, the higher melt viscosity is derived from the higher molecular weight.With increase in amount of a metallic cation to be added, ionic crosslinkage increases and the viscosity increases also. More specifically. with the progress of neutralization from 0 to 40Z in Reference Examples 1 4, substantial increase in viscosity is observed. and further with the progress of neutralization from 40 to 80 through 90X, much more increase in viscosity Is observed In this case, viscosity was measured by means of rotational viscometer B type viscometer . Table 1 Ternary Copolymer M.W.M.C.M. g T.N.A. Z Vls.cps Ex.l 95.6 3.0 1.4 5,000 NaOH 30 40 1.780 2 95.6 3.0 1.4 5,000 70 90 30,300 3 95.6 2.5 1.9 7,000 26 40 5,800 4 95.6 2.5 1.9 7,000 58 90 50,200 5 95.6 2.0 2.4 10,000 21 40 48,200 6 95.6 2.0 2.4 10.000 46 90 C.N.M. 7 98.0 1.5 0.5 5,000 15 40 900 8 98.0 1.5 0.5 5.000 35 90 15,000Re.Ex.l 95.6 3.0 1,4 5,000 0 510 2 95.6 2.5 1.9 7.000 0 2,100 3 95.6 2.0 2.4 10,000 0 10,200 4 98.0 1.5 0.5 5,000 0 490Abbreviation of terms in Table ET ethylene, AA acrylic acid, EA ethyl acrylate,M.W. molecular weight, M.C.M. metallic cation material,T.N.A. theoretical neutralization amount, Vis. viscosity,C.N.M could not measured. Reference ExamPles 5 6 As raw material EEA. EEA having 4.5 mol ethyl acrylate content and 3.0 g 10 min. melt index and another EEA having 12.0 molX ethyl acrylate content and 4.0 g 10 min. melt index were used, and thermallY degraded products having each molecular weight of 7 000 and 8.800 were obtained under similar condition to those of Reference Example 1 at each temperature of 3400C and 3350C. The analyzed composition is as shown in Table 2.ExamPles 9 I Examples 9 11 were conducted by cross linking the ternary copolymers in said Reference Examples 5 6 with magnesium hydroxide. More specifically, 40 to 80 of carboxYL groups in the low molecular weight ternary copolymers were neutralized with use of theoretical amount of magnesium hydroxide 1 mol of Mg ion was equivalent to 2 mol of acrylic acid to produce ternary copolymers cross linked with magnesium cation. Reaction was effected by utilizing a pressurizing type kneader in laboratory.More specifically, about 300 g of the low molecular weight ternary copolymer shown in ComparativeExample in Table 2 was placed in the pressurizing type kneader having about 3 Q internal volume, and pressurizing 5 kgZcm2 and releasing 1 kg cm2 operations of nitrogen gas were repeated ten times with respect to air inside said pressurizing type kneader to remove oxygen in the system. Then1 a temperature of the contents in the kneader was raised to the reaction temperature of 1700C by means of electrical heating.The temperature was controlled at 170 C, and the reaction was continued until either the reaction is completed, or no volatile matter is produced from reacting mass in the reaction vessel. A prescribed amount of magnesium hydroxide was gradually added to react the contents in the vessel while suppressing bubbling due to production of volatile matter. Absorption displacement of carboxyl group based on ionic crosslinkage of Mg ion was observed at 1620 cm 1. Although melt viscosity of a product cross linked neutralizlnsly was tried to measure by means of a rotational viscometer B type viscometer , there was a sample which could not be measured. Accordingly, melt index was measured at 190 0C JIS K6760 . When examined Tables 1 and 2, It is found that with increase of acrylic acid in samples, amount of metallic cation required for neutralization of the same percentage increases.When compared sodium hydroxide with magnesium hydroxide in respect of metallic cation material, magnesium hydroxide produces divalent metallic cation. This provides two positions with respect to formation of ionic crosslinkage. Accordingly, number of moles for magnesium ion was made half that of sodium ion in order to attain substantially the same degree of neutralization. It is expected that with increase in amount of metallic cation to be added, ionic crosslinkage increases and viscosity increases also, and this expectation has been just indicated inTables 1 and 2. It is observed that with progress of neutralization from 0 in Reference Examples 1 6 to 40 in Examples. substantial increase In viscosity decrease in melt index appears, and further with the progress of such increase from 40 to 80 through 90 , viscosity increases decrease in melt index further. In addition, when composition of ethyl acrylate in the low molecular weight ternary copolymer is changed as shown inExample 11 and Comparative Example 16, it is possible to changeboth melting points of said copolymer and its metallically cross linked product DSC method . In the present Examples, since such high molecular weight ethylene ethyl acrylate copolymer raw material of high content ethyl acrylate is selected, a prescribed amount of acrylic acid is produced by means of thermal degradation, so that a metallically crosslinked ternary copolymer having low melting point is obtained. This means that even in a copolymer involving composition of a given amount of acrylic acid acid value . when amount of alkyl meth acrylate is changed. it is possible to change melting point of the copolymer and that said ternary copolymer is more advantageous than binary copolymer. when used as lubricant, dispersion aid and the like. Table 2 Ternary Copolymer molX AA AQ EQ M.W. M.C.M. T.N.A. M.1.at M.P. g X 1900C C 0 C Ex.9 95.6 2.4 2.0 7,000 Mg OH 22.7 40 2,400 105 10 95.6 2.4 2.0 7,000 Mg OH 25.4 80 560 102 11 88.4 3.4 8.2 8,800 Mg OH 27.6 80 50 85Re.Ex. 5 95.6 2.4 2.0 7.000 0 10,000 107 6 88.4 3.4 8.2 8,800 0 3,100 87 Abbreviation of terms in Table M.I. melt index, M.P. melting point. Reference ExamPles 7 10 Production of Each Raw Material Alkyl Meth acrulate in the present Examples. each binary copolymer of a comparatively high molecular weight was prepared. In eachExample. contents of a metallic autoclave type reactor having 3.8 Q internal volume and equipped with a sirrer were replaced sufficiently by nitrogen and ethylene. Then, the reactor was charged with a prescribed amount of ethylene, n hexane of chain transfer agent, and a copolymer. and further di tert butyl peroxide of polymerizing initiator was Poured, thereafter the mixture was polymerized at a polymerizing temperature of 170 0C under the polymerizing conditions indicated in Table 3 for a polymerizing time of 1 hour. As the copolymers, methyl acrylate. t butyl acrylates ethyl methacrylate, and i propyl methacrylate were used, and a copolymer in the respective polymers produced was confirmed by infrared absorption analytical method and determined. The results thereof are indicated in Table 3. These polymers were thermally degraded in accordance with a similar manner to that of Reference Example 1, and the results thereof are indicated in Table 4. Table 3 Peroxide ET CP. Press. Temp. di T BP Yield M.l. CP.cot. g 4 kq cm2 C minol g q lOm. mol Re.Ex. 7 1.700 MA60 1,600 170 0.05 320 2.1 4.2 8 1,700 t BA100 1,600 170 0.05 380 9.4 5.6 9 1,700 EM90 1.600 170 0.05 340 6.7 5.3 10 1.700 i PM60 1.600 170 0.05 360 8.7 2.1 Abbreviation of terms in Table CP. copolymer. Press. pressure. Temp. temperature. di t BP di t butyl peroxide CP.cot. copolymer content. MA methyl acrylate, t BA t butyl acrylate. EM ethyl methacrylate. i PM i propyl methacrylate. ExamPles 12 19 In the present Examples 12 19, each degraded ternary copolymer obtained from the respective binary copolymers which had been prepared In Reference Examples 7 10 through thermal degradation as well as the low molecular weight ternary copolymers cross linked with metallic cation were produced.Thermal degrading method was conducted in accordance with a similar manner to that of Examples I 8. so that the resulting low molecular weight ternary copolymers were indicated asReference Examples 7 10. Examples 12 19 were conducted in order that the low molecular weight ternary copolymers shown inReference Examples 7 10 were cross linked with sodium hydroxide and magnesium hydroxide. A cross linking method was such that each copolymer was reacted by employing the pressurizing type kneader shown in Examples 9 I1, and the cross linked low molecular weight ternary copolymer was confirmed by means of infrared absorption analytical method and rotational viscometer. The results thereof are shown in Table 4. Table 4 Ternary Copolymer ET Ac. Est. M.W. M.C.M. T.N.A. Vis.at g g 2000C cps Ex.12 96.0 AA3.0 MAl1.0 3,000 NaOH3.6 30 1,200 13 96.0 AA3.0 MA1.0 3,000 NaOH7.2 60 3,900 14 94.6 AA4.0 t BAl.4 9,500 NaOH4.7 30 27,000 15 94.6 AA4.0 t BAl.4 9,500 NaOH9.4 60 50,800 16 95.0 MAc1.9 EM3.1 4,500 NaOH2.2 30 1,300 17 95.0 MAc1.1 EM3.1 4,500 NaOH4.4 60 2.700 18 98.0 MAc1.5 i PM0.5 8,000 Mg OH 22.5 30 4,700 19 98.0 Macl.5 i PM0.5 8,000 Mg OH 25.0 60 9,300Re.Ex. 7 96.0 AA3.0 Ma1.0 3,000 0 190 8 94.6 AA4.0 t BAl.4 9,500 0 9,400 9 95.0 MAcl.9 EM3.1 4,500 0 430 10 98.0 MAc1.5 i PM0.5 8.000 0 2,600 Abbreviation of terms in Table Ac. acid, Est. ester, MAc methacrylic acid. ExamPles 20 22 and Comparative ExamPles 1 2 In the following Examples 20 22 and ComparativeExamples 1 2, ionically cross linked low molecular weight ternary copolymers obtained by reaction of ethylene acrylic acid ethyl acrylate copolymer and sodium hydroxide were shown as lubricant for ethylene a olef in copolymer straight chain lowdensity polyethylene The reaction was effected in accordance with a similar manner to that of Examples I 8. Lubricant A is one prepared by neutralizing 60 a copolymer having a viscosityaverage molecular weight of 3,100 and a composition of 94.2 molX ethylene, 4.0 mol acrylic acid, and 1.8 mol of ethyl acrylate with sodium hydroxide in accordance with said manner.On one hand1 Lubricant B Is one prepared by neutralizing 60 a ternary copolymer having a viscosity average molecular weight of 11,000 and a composition of 94.2 mol ethylene, 0.6 mol acrylic acid, and 5.2 mol of ethyl acrylate with sodium hydroxide similarly to that described above. Extruded form used in Examples 10 12 has 50 m m screw diameter. and die has 1 m m slit width. Each composition was sufficiently dryblended, and then once extruded and molten to be shaped into pellet form in order to complete homogeneous blending. Thereafter properties of the lubricant were tested with the use of 50 m m extruder. As the straight chain low density polyethylene LLDPE . Nisseki Linirex AF3310 2.0 melt index, and 0.922 density manufactured by Nippon Petrochemicals Co., Ltd. was used. On one hand, Nisseki Rexlon F312 2.0 melt index, and 0.922 density manufactured by Nippon Petrochemicals Co., Ltd was used as the low density Polyethylene. In Examples 20 22. such result was observed that lower number of revolutions in screw than that of the case where no lubricant was used in ComparativeExample 1 brought in substantially the same amount of discharge. Besides, extreme end pressure of the extruder was also suppressed at low value in the present ExamPles, so that advantageous effects of the lubricant were apparent. Likewise, extreme end pressure of the extruder was also suPpressed at low value in case of 20 LDPE blend composition. and improvement of working characteristics was observed. The results thereof are shown in Table 5. Table 5 R.O.C. wt N.R. rPm E.C. A H.P. kq cm2 A.D. q m. Ex.20 LLDPE LT.A 53 45 275 334 95 5 21 LLDPE LT.B 53 45 285 331 95 5C.Ex.l LLDPE 57 46 310 333 100 Ex.22 LLDPE LDPE LT.A 53 45 260 336 75 20 5C.Ex.2 LLDPE LDPE 54 45 290 329 80 20 Abbreviation of terms in Table R.O.C. ratio of composition, N.R. number of revolutions, E.C. electric current, H.P. head pressure,A.D. amount of discharge, LT. lubricant, C. Ex. comparative example. ExamPles 23 24 and ComParative ExamPle 3 The Present Examples demonstrate specific examples of ironically cross linked ternary copolymers which were used as dispersion. aids. A copolymer used as dispersion aid was an ionically cross linked ternary copolymer having a viscosityaverage molecular weight of 5,100 and a composition of 93.0 molt ethylene. 4.2 mol acrylic acid. and 2.8 mol of ethYl acrylate, and 60X of acrylic acid of which were neutralized with magnesium hydroxide. As crystalline polypropylenes Nisseki Polupro J150G having 8 g 10 min. melt flow index and manufactured by NipponPetrochemicals Co., Ltd. was used. As mica, Suzolite mica having 90 um weight average flake diameter, 50 average asPect ratio, and 0.24 g cc bulk specific gravity was used.As modified polyprQpylene, acrylic acid graft polypropylene having 20 g 10 min. melt flow index and 6 wtX acrylic acid content was employed. Experiment was conducted by such that the crystalline polypropylene, the modified polypropylene, the mica, and said ionically cross linked low molecular weight ternary copolymer, as a dispersion aid. were introduced into a Henschel mixer, admixed at a rate of 720 rpm for 3 minutes, and the resulting admixture was formed into ASTM type dumbbell by means of an injection molding machine, thereafter tensile strength at yield point and other physical properties were measured by utilizing said dumbbell. In Comparative Example 3, materials were processed and measured in accordance with the same manner with that of Examples 23 24 without adding any lubricant, and the results thereof are indicated in Table 6. As is apparent from experimental Examples shown in Table 6, it was observed that polypropylene compositions mechanical properties of which had been improved were produced In the case where the low molecular weight ternary copolymer cross linked with magnesium ion was used as a dispersion aid. Table 6ComPosition Vex. 23 Vex. 24 Comp.Ex.3 Polypropylene wt 60 60 60 55crystalline SModified Mica CC 39.7 38 40 1.C.L.MW.T.CP CC 0.3 2PhYsical ProPertiesTensile Strength atYield Point kg cm2 360 380 260Breaking Extension 10 15 10Bending Strength kg cm 610 680 470Bending Modulus 62.000 65,000 58.000Heat Distortion Temperature 0, 150 152 137 Abbreviation of term in Table I.C.L.MW.T.CP. ionically cross linked low molecular weight ternary copolymer.