# Substituted glutaric acid lactones in the treatment of hyperlipidemia.

## Abstract
The invention relates to compounds of formula I

## Claims
1. A compound of the formula wherein R represents lower alkyl, cycloalkyl, aryl or a group of the formula wherein R¹ represents cycloalkyl or phenyl m is an integer from 8 to 15, inclusive and the pharmaceutically acceptable salts or esters thereof.

## Description
The invention relates to novel substituted glutaric acid lactone derivatives of formula I which are useful to inhibit the formation of serum lipids, and especially cholesterol. The novel compounds exhibit this utility by virtue of their ability to inhibit the activity of β hydroxy β methyl glutaryl coenzyme A HMG CoA reductase and thus inhibit the formation of serum cholesterol. HMG CoA is a substance which controls the rate at which cholesterol is synthesized in mammalian liver one of the two principal The use of agents which lower serum cholesterol is widely described in the art as described above. 3 hydroxy 3 substituted glutaric acid derivatives are described in U.S. Patent 3,818,080 as being useful for their antiulcerogenic activity. Pentanedioic acid derivatives are described as antihyperlipidemic agents in commonly assigned co pending U.S. application Ser. No. 06 577411 filed February 6, 1984. 3 Substituted pentanedioic hemiesters and anhydrides are described as elastase inhibitors in commonly assigned co pending U.S. application Ser. No. 06 579007, filed January 9, 1984. In contrast, the compounds of the present invention are glutaric acid lactone derivatives which have not been heretofore suggested for lowering serum cholesterol and which are structurally unrelated to the aforementioned prior derivatives by reason of their cyclic i.e., lactone structures. The compounds of the invention are prepared from intermediates having a hydroxy group δ to the carboxylic acid moieties which intermediates have not been described previously. The present invention particularly provides compounds of formula I As used herein, the expression lower alkyl includes straight or branched chain alkyl of 1 to 6 carbon atoms. Exemplary of suitable lower alkyl groups are methyl, ethyl, n propyl, isopropyl, n butyl, t butyl, n hexyl and the like. Examples of suitable cycloalkyl groups are groups of 3 to 7 carbon atoms, including, for instance, cyclopropyl, cyclobutyl, cyclopentyl, cyclohexyl, cycloheptyl. Especially preferred in the practice of the present invention is cyclohexyl. Suitable aryl groups are those of 6 to 10 carbon atoms, including phenyl and naphthyl with phenyl being especially preferred. Appropriate pharmaceutically acceptable salts include Na , K , Ca , NH₄ and any other cation capable of reacting with the carboxylic acid moiety provided same does not adversely affect the pharmacological properties of the resulting compounds. Likewise, appropriate lower alkyl esters are encompassed within the scope of formula I. Especially preferred compounds of formula I are those wherein R is a group selected from Particularly preferred compounds in accordance with the present invention are of the formulae It will be appreciated by those skilled in the art that the compounds of the present invention contain asymmetric carbon atoms, i.e., centers of chirality and, therefore, the compounds depicted may exist as individual diastereomers or mixtures thereof and such diastereomers and mixtures are included within the scope of the defined structural formulas herein. The utility of the instant compounds and their inhibition of the formation of serum cholesterol can be demonstrated via the following standarized test procedures The HMG derivaties are added to a preincubation mixture consisting of 0.1 M K PO₄, PH7.2, 0.02 M glucose 6 PO₄, 2.5 mM NADP, 0.7 units of glucose 6 PO₄ dehydrogenase, 5 mM dithiothreitol, 50 mM mevalonic acid and approximately 50 µg of microsomal protein. Triplicate samples are preincubated for 15 min. at 37 C in a volume of 1 ml. Incubation is started with 40 µM 14C HMGCoA 0.1 ml run for 15 min. at 37 C and stopped with 5 N HCl 0.1 ml . Assay tubes are allowed to set for at least 30 min., then approximately 50,000 dpm of ³H mevalonic acid are added to provide for extraction efficiency. Mevalonic acid is extracted with ether and the ¹⁴C HMGCoA incorporation determined for concurrent control and test reaction systems. Testing is done first with a range finding assay followed by a 4 or 5 point assay to find the IC₅₀ value. Coefficient of variation ranged from 5 to 20 with an average value of 14 . Compactin in this test had an IC₅₀ value of 1 µM under these conditions. Initial serum total cholesterol, triglycerides, and lipoprotein cholesterol values are determined 3 times for each male Rhesus monkey used before treatment with a test compound begins. The test compound is administered in an initial dose of 60 mg kg for 2 weeks and blood samples are taken to determine if rebound occurs. A dose is rated active if the 14 day mean values are significantly reduced from the pretreatment values p 0.05 . Statistical comparisons are made using the two tailed student s t test. By virtue of their activity in the foregoing tests, the compounds of formula I are useful in treating type 2 hypercholesterolemia TTH 2 in humans and animals. A physician or veterinarian of ordinary skill could readily determine a subject who has TTH 2 symptoms. Regardless of the route of administration selected, the compounds of the present invention are formulated into pharmaceutically acceptable dosage forms by conventional methods known to the pharmaceutical art. The compounds can be administered in such oral unit dosage forms as tablets, capsules, pills, powders, or granules. They also may be administered rectally, intraparenterally, subcutaneously, or intramuscularly, using forms known to the pharmaceutical art. In general, the preferred form of administration is orally. An effective but non toxic quantity of the compound is employed in treatment. The dosage regimen for preventing or treating TTH 2 or other hyperlipidemic conditions by compounds of this invention is selected in accordance with a variety of factors including the type, age, weight, sex, and medical condition of the mammal, the severity of the condition, the route of administration and the particular compound employed. An ordinarily skilled physician or veterinarian will readily determine and prescribe the effective amount of the active agent to prevent or arrest the progress of the condition. In so proceeding, the physician or veterinarian could employ relatively low dosages at first, subsequently increasing the dose until a maximum response is obtained. Initial dosages of the compounds of the invention are ordinarily in the area of 10 mg kg up to 200mg kg orally. When other forms of administration are employed equivalent or adjusted doses are administered depending on the route of administration. The general procedure for producing the compounds of the present invention is outlined in the following reaction scheme, which is similar to the general procedures used to produce the compounds of U.S. Patent 3,818,080 which is incorporated herein by reference. The hydroxyacid esters The starting esters The compounds of the present invention by reason of their serum lipid e.g. cholesterol lowering properties are useful alone or in the pharmaceutical compositions and methods of the invention as antihyperlipidemic agents. Ultimately the compounds of the invention find applications in the treatment, prevention or mitigation of atherosclerosis, arteriosclerosis, myocardial infarction, hypertension, and related conditions in which elevated serum lipid cholesterol levels are a causative component. The following non limiting examples further illustrate details for the preparation of compounds of the present invention. The invention as a whole is not to be construed or limited either in spirit or in scope by the following examples. Those skilled in the art will readily understand that variations in the conditions and processes exemplified in the following preparative procedures can be utilized to prepare these compounds. All temperatures are degrees Celcius unless otherwise specified. Chemical shifts for NMR spectra are reported in parts per million δ . Splitting patterns are designated as s, singlet d, doublet, t, triplet q, quartet, and m, multiplet. Elemental analyses were performed by microanalytical procedures. A solution of 14.0g of the trimethylsilyloxydiene The aqueous mixture was extracted into ether, which was washed with aqueous sodium bisulfite, dried over MgSO₄ and distilled to dryness under reduced pressure. Trituration of the crude product with hexane yielded a crystalline material which on crystallization from methylene chloride and hexane gave Anal. Calcd. for C₂₀H₃₆O₅ C 67.41 H 10.11 Found C 66.99 H 10.16 ¹³CMR spectrum exhibited maxima at δ 14.1 CH₃ 22.7, 24.9, 29.7, 32.0, and 39.4 CH₂ ₁₂ 39.9 and 42.2 CH₂ in lactone , 45.0 CH₂ attached to carboxylic acid , 68.4 C OH , 77.2 C O , 172.0 lactone C O , and 174.9 COOH . The following data illustrate the HMG CoA reductase activity i.e. antihypercholesterolemia or antihyperlipidemia of the compounds of the present invention as determined in the previously identified standard laboratory test compound of While the invention has been described and illustrated with reference to certain preferred embodiments thereof, those skilled in the art will appreciate that various changes, modifications, and substitutions can be made therein without departing from the spirit of the invention. For example, effective dosages other than the preferred ranges set forth hereinabove may be applicable as a consequence of variations in the responsiveness of the mammal treated, severity of condition treated, dosage related adverse effects, if any, observed and analogous considerations. Likewise, the specific pharmacological responses observed may vary depending upon the particular active compounds selected or whether different active compounds are used in combination or in the presence of suitable pharmaceutical carriers, as well as the type of formulation and mode of administration employed, and such expected variations or differences in results are contemplated in accordance with the objects and practices of the present invention. It is intended, therefore, that the invention be limited only by the scope of the claims which follow.