# 9 Acyl tylosin derivatives.

## Abstract
9 0 Acyltylosin derivatives of formula CHEM where R is a C2 7 alkanoyl or benzoyl group optionally substituted by C1 4 alkyl, C1 4 alkoxy, nitro or halo where R 1 is hydrogen or mycarosyl and R 2 is mycinosyl or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof are effective antibacterial agents.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A compound of formula I EMI43.1 where R is a C27 alkanoyl or benzoyl group optionally substituted by C14 alkyl, C1 4 alkoxy, nitro or halo where R1 is hydrogen or mycarosyl and R2 is mycinosyl or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof. 2. 9 0 Acetyl 9 dihydrotylosin. 3. 9 O Propionyl 9 dihydrotylosin. 4. 9 O Benzoyl 9 dihydrotylosin. 5. 9 O Acetyl 9 dihydrodemycarosyltylosin. 6. 9 O Propionyl 9 dihydrodemycarosyltylosin. 7. A compound of formula I , or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 6, for use in the prophylaxis or therapy of bacterial infections in warn blooded animals. 8. A pharmaceutical or veterinary formulation comprising ds an active ingredient a compound of formula I , or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 6, associated with one or more pharmaceutically or veterinarally acceptable carriers therefor. 9. A process for preparing a compound of formula I , or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 6, which comprises acylating a 9 hydroxytylosin derivative of formula EMI44.1 where R1 and R2 are as defined in claim 1, and in which the 20 aldehyde and free hydroxyl groups susceptible to acylation have been protected, followed by removal of the groups used to protect said aldehyde and hydroxy groups. CLAIMS 1. A process for preparing a compound of formula I EMI45.1 where R is a C2 7 alkanoyl or benzoyl group optionally substituted by C1 4 alkyl, C1 4 alkoxy, nitro or halo where R1 is hydrogen or mycarosyl and R2is mycinosyl or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof which comprises acylating a 9 hydroxytylosin derivative of formula EMI46.1 where R1 and R2 are as defined above, and in which the 20 aldehyde and free hydroxyl groups susceptible to acylation have been protected, followed by removal of the groups used to protect said aldehyde and hydroxyl groups 2. A process according to claim I for preparing 9 O acetyl 9 dihydrotylosin. 3. A process according to claim 1 for preparing 9 O propionyl 9 dihydrotylosin. 4. A process according to claim 1 for preparing 9 O benzoyl 9 dihydrotylosin. 5. A process according to claim 1 for preparing 9 O acetyl 9 dihydrodemycarosyltylosin. 6. A process according to claim 1 for preparing 9 O propionyl 9 dihydrodemycarosyltylosin.

## Description
9 ACYL TYLOSIN DERIVATIVES This invention relates to macrolide antibiotics, in particular to novel compounds similar to the well known therapeutic agent tylosin see, for example, Tetrahedron Letters, 2339 1970 and U.S.Patent Specification No. 3,178,341 but in which the 9 position of the macrolide system is acylated. Despite tylosin s great value, there exists a continuing need to develop new antibiotics, both in view of the possibility of providing more active derivatives, possibly having a broader spectrum of activity, and also in view of the knawn propensity of microorganisms to develop resistance. Unfortunately, chemical modification of tylosin like macrolides has proven to be extremely difficult. Indeed, in the majority of cases, research workers, intent on finding new derivatives of. this type, have been forced to search for new microorganisms, in the hope that their cultivation would fortuitously yield related compounds of interest. Surprisingly, the Applicant has now discovered that the 9 keto group in tylosin like structures can be converted, via reduction, into an acyl function, without concomitant disruption of the macrolide system, and further that such derivatives possess significant antibiotic activity. Thus, in accordance with the invention, novel macrolides of formula I EMI2.1 where R is a C2 7 alkanoyl or benzoyl group optionally substituted by C1 4 alkyl, C1 4 alkoxy, nitro or halo where RÚ is hydrogen or mycarosyl, i.e. EMI2.2 R2 is mycinosyl, i.e. EMI3.1 and pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof, are effective antibiotics. Although no stereochemical configuration is indicated in the above structural formula, it is to be understood that the stereochemistry is identical to that of tylosin. The amino sugar is mycaminose. It is further to be noted that, for the sake of brevity of description in the following specification, the moiety surrounded by the dotted lines.in formula I above is illustrated merely by the symbol TYL . It is thus to be understood that the tylosin derivatives according to the present invention represented by the general formula I also may be referred to by the following general formula EMI3.2 The tylosin derivatives of the general formula I may be produced, in general terms, by acetalizing or thioacetalizing the aldehyde group on the 20 position of tylosin or demycarosyltylosin Step I acylating the acetal or thioacetal derivative of tylosin or demycarosyltylosin to protect the hydroxyl group on the 2 position of the mycaminosyl substituent on the 5position of the tylosin nucleus Step II silylating the 2 O acyl derivative of the acetalized or thioacetalized tylosin or demycarosyltylosin to protect all the hydroxyl groups reactive to the acylation on the 9 position of the tylosin nucleus Step III reducing the ketone group on the 9 position thereof to give a secondary alcohol group Step IV acylating the resulting secondary alcohol group Step V hydrolyzing the silyl groups of the silylated 9 0acylated tylosin or demycarosyltylosin derivative Step VI deacylating the acyl group introduced by the step II above Step VII and eliminating the acetal or thioacetal group from the 20 position of the tylosin nucleus. The process for preparing the tylosin derivatives of the general formula I will now be described in more detail. Reaction Scheme AEMI5.1 EMI6.1 Reaction Scheme BEMI7.1 EMI8.1 where Y stands for a di alkoxy methyl group, a di phenoxy methyl group, a di alkylthio methyl group or a di phenylthio methyl group R3 stands for a C27 alkanoyl group R2a stands for a silylated mycinosyl group R4 stands for a silyl group R5 stands for a silyl group R6 stands for hydrogen atom or a silyl group and R7 stands for a C2 7 alkanoyl group. The alkyl group in the di alkoxy methyl group and di alkylthio methyl group referred to by the symbol Y is a C14 residue of a straight chain or branched aliphatic hydrocarbon. The phenyl group in the di phenoxy methyl group and di phenylthio methyl group referred to by the symbol Y is a phenyl group optionally substituted by a halogen atom such as chlorine atom, a C1 4 alkyl group such as methyl or ethyl or aC1 4 alkoxy group such as methoxy or ethoxy. The C2 7 alkanoyl group referred to by the symbols R3 and Rz is the residue of an aliphatic carboxylic acid to be used as an acylating agent in the IIa orIIb.The silylated mycinosyl .group of the symbql R2a is the mycinosyl group in which the hydroxyl group on the 4 position is silylated by a silylating agent to be used in the step IIIa or IIIb. The silyl group referred to by the symbols R41, R5 and R61 is the silyl residue of a silylating agent to be used in the step IIIa or IIIb. The process for preparing the tylosin derivatives of the general formula I where Rl is mycarosyl group will be first described according to the ReactionScheme A illustrated above. Tylosin of formula IIa may be acetalized with an alcohol or thioacetalized with a thiol or a disulfide to protect the aldehyde group on the 20position of the tylosin nucleus from the reactions which follow. The alcohol to be employed in the step Ia as an acetalizing agent may include, for instance, an aliphatic alcohol or a phenol. The aliphatic alcohol may be, for instance, methyl alcohol, ethyl alcohol, propyl alcohol or the like, and the phenol may include, for instance, phenol, a halogenophenol such as chlorophenol, bromophenol or the like, a lower alkyl substituted phenol such as cresol, xylenol, ethylphenol or the like, or a lower alkoxy substituted phenol such as methoxyphenol, ethoxyphenol or the like. The thiols to be used in the step Ia as one of the thioacetalizing agents may include, for instance, a mercaptan or a thiophenol.Representatives of the mercaptans are, for instance, a lower alkyl mercaptan such as methylmercaptan, propylmercaptan or the like, and representatives of the thiophenols are, for instance, thiophenol, a halothiophenol such as chlorophenylmercaptan, bromophenylmercaptan or the like, a lower alkyl substituted phenylmercaptan such as tolylmercaptan, xylylmercaptan, ethylphenylmercaptan, propylphenylmercaptan, isopropylphenylmercaptan or the like, or a lower alkoxy substituted phenylmercaptan such as methoxyphenylmercaptan, ethoxyphenylmercaptan, propoxyphenylmercaptan or the like. The disulfides employed in step Ia as another thioacetalizing agent include, for instance, an alkyl disulfide, an aryl disulfide or the like.Representatives of the alkyl disulfides are, for instance, methyl disulfide, ethyl disulfide, propyl disulfide or the like, and representatives of the aryl disulfides are, for instance, phenyl disulfide, Åa substituted phenyl disulfide such as methylphenyl disulfide, methoxyphenyl disulfide or the like. The acetalization or the thioacetalization according to the step Ia may be carried out in the presence of a solvent. As the solvents there may be employed, for instance, a chlorinated hydrocarbon such as chloroform or dichloromethane, acetonitrile, benzene, an ether or tetrahydrofuran. The acetalizing and thioacetalizing agents also may be employed as solvent. The reactions may be carried out at temperatures ranging from OOC to the reflux temperature of the solvent used, for a period of time ranging from 15 minutes to 24 hours. The thioacetalization according to the step Ia may be conducted in the presence of a tertiary phosphine such as a trialkylphosphine, for example, a trimethylphosphine, triethylphosphine or tributylphosphine or a triphenylphosphine such as triphenylphosphine. The acetalization according to the step Ia provides the tylosin acetal of the general formula IIIa in which Y is a di alkoxy methyl group or a di phenoxy methyl group, and the thioacetalization according thereto provides the tylosin thioacetal of formula IIIa in which Y is a di alkylthio methyl group or a di phenylthio methyl group. In step IIa, the tylosin acetal or thioacetal derivatives according to formula IIIa may be acylated with an acylating agent to thereby acylate the hydroxyl group on the 2 position of the 5 mycaminosyl substituent.The acylating agent may be an acid anhydride or an acyl halide. The acid anhydride may include, for example, an anhydride of an aliphatic carboxylic acid such as acetic acid, propionic acid, butyric acid, valeric acid, caproic acid, isobutyric acid, isovaleric acid, and the acyl halide may include, for instance, a halide such as a chloride of the aliphatic carboxylic acids mentioned above. The selective acylation of the 21hydroxy group is carried by conventional means in the absence of a base. As a solvent there may be employed a chlorinated hydrocarbon such as chloroform or dichloromethane. The reaction temperatures may vary from OOC to 50 C, for example, room temperature, and the reaction time may range from 1 to 24 hours. The acylation according to the step IIa provides the 2 O acylated tylosin acetal of formula IVa in which Y is a di alkoxy methyl group or a di phenyloxy methyl group and R3 iS a C27 alkanoyl group or the 2 O acylated tylosin thioacetal of formula Iva in which Y is a di alkylthio methyl group or a di phenylthio methyl group and R3 is a C2,7 alkanoyl group. The 21 O acylated tylosin acetal or thioacetal of formula IVa may then be silylated with a silylating agent in accordance with step IIIa. This silylation will protect the hydroxyl groups which will interfere with or be acylated during the introduction of the acyl group into the 9 position of the tylosin nucleus. The silylating agents to be used in the stepIIIa may include, for instance, a tri substituted halogenosilane or a hexa substituted silazane. As the trisubstituted halogenosilane there may be employed a tri lower alkyl halogenosilane such as trimethyl chlorosilane, triethyl chlorosilane or tributyl chlorosilane.As representatives of the hexasubstituted silazane, there may be employed a hexalower alkyl silazane such as hexamethyl silazane or hexaethyl silazane. As another type of silylating agent, there may be mentionedN trimethyl silylimidazole, N,O bis trimethylsilyl acetamide, N,O bis trimethylsilyl sulfamate and bistrimethylsilyl urea. It is to be noted that the use of the trisubstituted halogenosilane or the hexasubstituted silazane as silylating agent does not silylate the hydroxyl group on the 31, position of the mycarosyl substituent.Although the 3 hydroxyl group of the mycarosyl substituent is not required to be silylated, because the 3 1 hydroxyl group that is a tertiary alcohol residue is not acylated in the course of the acylation of the reduced hydroxy group on the 9 position of the tylosin nucleus, it is preferred to use Ntrimethyl silylimidazole in a system where piperidine is present. This type of the silylating agent can permit silylation of the hydroxyl groups reactive in the acylation which follows, in addition to the 4 hydroxyl group of the mycarosyl group. In instances where the trisubstituted halosilane is employed, it is preferred to use a tertiary organic amine as an acid scavenger. The tertiary organic amine may include, for instance, pyridine, guinoline, N methylmorphofine or dimethylaniline. The silylation according to the step IIIa may be carried out in conventional manner, usually at a temperature below room temperature, for a period of time ranging preferably from approximately 20 to 40 minutes. The silylation will give the silylated 2 Oacyltylosin acetal or thioacetal of formula Va in which R4 is a silyl group, R5 is a silyl group and Rs is hydrogen atom or a silyl group. In the step IVa, the silylated 2 O acyltylosin acetal or thioacetal of formula Va is then reduced to convert the ketone group in the 9 position of the tylosin nucleus into a hydroxyl group. The reducing agent to be used is one that can react exclusively with the ketone group in the 9position, without reduction of the 1 lactone group double bonds in the macrolide ring. Such reducing agents include, for example, sodium borohydride and lithium alkoxyaluminum hydride. The reduction according to step IVa may be conducted in conventional manner, usually in the presence of an inert solvent. The solvent to be used may be any aprotic solvent, for instance, an ether such as diethylene glycol, dimethylether or tetrahydrofuran. The reaction temperature is preferably below room temperature, and the reaction period is conventionally about 1 hour. The 9 hydroxyl 2 O acyl silyltylosin acetal or thioacetal of formula VIa produced in the stepIVa is then subjected to acylation with an acylating agent according to the step Va. This acylation allows the alkanoyl residue of the acylating agent to be introduced into the 9 hydroxyl group of the tylosin nucleus. The acylating agent to be used for the acylation according to the step Va may be an acid anhydride or an acyl halide. The acid anhydride may include, for i nstance, an anhydride of an aliphatic carboxylic acid such as acetic acid, propionic acid, butyric acid, valeric acid, caproic acid, isobutyric acid, isovaleric acid or the like or a benzoic acid which may optionally be substituted by a C14 alkyl group such as methyl, ethyl or propyl, a halogen atom such as chlorine, a C1 4 alkoxy group such as methoxy or ethoxy, or a nitro group, and the acyl halide may include, for instance, an acyl halide such as chloride of such an aliphatic acid or a benzoic acid as enumerated hereinabove. The acylation according to the step Va may be carried out in conventional manner, usually in the presence of a base in a solvent. The base may include, for instance, a tertiary organic amine such as tribenzylamine, dimethylaniline, pyridine, picoline, collidine, N methylpiperidine, N methylmorpholine, quinoline or isoquinoline. The solvent to be used may include, for instance, a chlorinated hydrocarbon such as chloroform or methylene chloride, an aromatic hydrocarbon such as benzene or toluene, an ester such as ethyl acetate or butyl acetate, an ether such as tetra hydrofuran or dioxane, a ketone such as methylethylketone or methylisobutylketone. The tertiary amine to be used as a base also may be employed as a solvent. The acylation according to the step Va is preferably below room temperature although temperatures from 0 to 1000C can be utilised. The reaction time may range from 1 to 24 hours. The acylation and reaction can be followed by thin layer chromatography. In the step Va, the hydroxyl group in the 9position of the 2 0 acyl silylation acetal or thioacetal of formula VIa is acylated to give the 9 0acylated 2 O acyl silyltylosin acetal or thioacetal of formula VIIa , which in turn is subjected to elimination of the silyl groups in accordance with the step VIa. The desilylation if preferably carried out in the presence of a F donating reagent such as n butyl 4NF or CsF. This reaction may also be conducted in a lower alkanol such as methanol or ethanol at elevated temperatures or in the presence of a base at room temperature. In instances where the desilylation is carried out at elevated temperatures, temperatures up to the reflux temperature of the solvent may be used.The base to be employed may be an alkali carbonate, triethylamine or the like. The use of the lower alkanol may also eliminate the alkanoyl group in the 2 position of the 5 mycaminosyl substituent of the tylosin nucleus as well as the silyl groups. In order to desilylate the silyl groups from the 9 0 acylated 2 acyl silyltylosin acetal or thioacetal of formula VIIa with certainty, the use of the F donating reagent is preferried The de silylation according to the step VIa gives the 9 0 acylated 2 O acyltylosin acetal or thioacetal of formula VIIIa in which all the silyl groups are removed. In step VIIa, the 9 0 acylated 2 O acyltylosin acetal or thioacetal of formula VIIIa may be deacylated to eliminate the acyl group on the 2 position of the 5 mycaminosyl substituent. The deacylation may be carried out by refluxing in a lower alkanol such as methanol or ethanol. The deacylation step VIla provides the 9 0acylated tylosin acetal or thioacetal of formula IXa .The resulting compounds are then subjected to deacetalization or dethioacetalization according to step VIIIa. The deacetalization or dethioacetalization of the 9 0 acylated tylosin acetal or thioacetal of formula IXa may be carried out by hydrolysis using an inert solvent such as tetrahydrofuran or acetonitrile at temperatures ranging from approximately OOC to 600C for a period of time ranging from approximately 30 minutes to 24 hours. In instances where the hydrolysis is carried out with an acid catalyst such as a mineral acid, e.g., hydrochloric acid, the mycarosyl group on the 4 position of the 5 mycaminosyl substituent will be eliminated simultaneously with the acetal or thioacetal group on the 20 position. It is thus to be noted that, in instances where the 9 0 acylated tylosin derivative according to formula Ia is desired to be obtained from the corresponding acetal or thioacetal of formula IXa , mild reaction conditions should be selected so as not to cause elimination of the mycarosyl group from the tylosin nucleus It is further to be noted that, in instances where the 9 0 acylated 2 O acyl silyltylosin acetal of formula VIIa is treated under reaction conditions capable of selectively eliminating the 2 acyl group, the silyl groups may also be eliminated and furthermore that, in instances where the acetal of formula VIIa is treated under reaction conditions capable of eliminating the acetal group, both the 2 acyl and the silyl groups may be eliminated simultaneously with the acetal group. In these instances, however, it is to be understood that the mycarosyl group may also be eliminated from the 5 mycaminosyl substituent of the nucleus, whereby the corresponding demycarosyltylosin derivative is provided. In order to have all the protective groups eliminated with certainty, it is accordingly preferred to carry out the steps for eliminating the protective groups according to the reaction scheme as illustrated above. The process for preparing the demycarosyl tylosin derivatives of general formula I where R1 is hydrogen atom will be described according to theReaction Scheme B illustrated hereinabove. In step Ib, the starting material to be used is demycarosyltylosin of formula IIb which may be produced by hydrolyzing tylosin of formula IIa with a mineral acid such as hydrochloric acid. Deraycarosyltylosin of formula IIb is acetalized or thioacetalized to have the acetal or thioacetal group introduced into the 20 aldehyde group to give the demycarosyltylosin acetal or thioacetal of formula IIIb . The acetalization or thioacetalization of demycarosyltylosin according to the step Ib may be carried out in substantially the same manner as in stepIa in which tylosin is acetalized or thioacetalized. In instances where the acetalization or thioacetalization is conducted with tylosin of formula IIa in the presence of a dilute acid such as acetic acid, the mycarosyl group may be eliminated from the tylosin to give the demycarosyltylosin acetal or thioacetal of the general formula IIIb . The demycarosyltylosin acetal or thioacetal of formula IIIb is then subjected to selective acylation on the 2 hydroxyl group of the tylosin nucleus according to the step IIb. This selective acylation will also cause the acyl group to be introduced into the hydroxyl group in the 4 position of the mycaminosyl substituent of the demycarosyltylosin compound as illustrated by the general formula IVb . This reaction may be carried out in substantially the same manner as in the stepIIa. The 2 ,4 O acyldemycarosyltylosin acetal or thioacetal of formula IVb is then subjected to silylation in accordance with the step IIIb. The silylation may be carried out in substantially the same manner as in the step IIIa, thus introducing the silyl group into the hydroxyl groups on the 3 and 4 positions of the tylosin nucleus to give the 2 ,4 O acyl silyldemycarosyltylosin acetal or thioacetal of the general formula Vb . The following step IVb involves the reduction of the ketone group on the 9 position of the tylosin nucleus. The reduction may be conducted in substantially the same manner as in step IVa to give the 9 hydroxy 2 ,4C O acyl silyldemycarosyltylosn acetal or thioacetal of the general formula VIb . In accordance with the step Vb which follows, the 9 hydroxy 2 ,4l O acylsilyldemycarosyltylosin acetal or thioacetal of formula VIb is then subjected to selective acylation in substantially the same manner as in step VIa. This reaction acylates the 9 hydroxyl group of the tylosin nucleus to provide the 9 0 acylated 2P,4 O acyl silyldemycarosyltylosin acetal or thioacetal of the general formula VIIb . In the steps which follow, the 9 0 acylated 2 , 4 O acyl silyldemycarosyltylosin acetal or thioacetal of formula VIIb is subjected to a series of reactions which allow the hydroxy protecting groups to be eliminated. A series of reactions may be carried out as illustrated in Reaction Scheme B above. Step VIb involves the desilylation which may be carried out in substantially the same manner as in step VIa described above. This reaction may eliminate the 3 0 silyl group OR4 and 4l O silyl group of the mycinosyl group R2a from the 9 0 acylated 2 ,4 o acylsilyldemycarosyltylosin acetal or thioacetal of formula VIIb . The 9 0 acylated 2 ,4 O acyldemycarosyltylosin acetal or thioacetal of formula VIIIb obtained by the step VIb may then be subjected to selective deacylation of the acyl groups from the 2 and 4 alkanoyloxy groups of the mycaminosyl substituent on the 5 position of the tylosin nucleus with the 9 0 acyl group retained without removal. The deacylation may be carried out in substantially the same manner as in the step VIIa described hereinabove. The 9 0 acylated demycarosyltylosin acetal or thioacetal of formula IXb thus obtained is then subjected to deacetalization or dethioacetalization according to step VIIIb. This reaction may be carried out in substantially the same manner as in step VIIIa described hereinabove, thereby eliminating the acetal or thioacetal group V to provide the 9 0 acylated demycarosyltylosin derivative of general formula Ib . It is further to be noted that in those instances where the acetal group is eliminated from the corresponding acetal derivatives, the reaction conditions are substantially the same as with the reaction in which the silyl groups are removed.Accordingly, in Reaction Scheme B in which acetal derivatives are employed, steps VIb and VIIIb may be combined and carried out simultaneously as one step.In this instance, the acyl groups on the 2 and 4 positions are deacylated selectively in accordance with the step VIIb. In instances where the thioacetal derivatives are employed, the thioacetal group may not be removed under those reaction conditions where the silyl groups are eliminated from the silylated demycarosyltylosin thioacetal derivatives. It is thus necessary to remove the thioacetal group selectively with the aid of a dethioacetalizing agent such as HgO. Thus1 the compounds of formula I can be prepared by acylating a 9 hydroxytylosin derivative in which the 20 aldehyde and free hydroxyl groups susceptible to acylation have been protected, followed by removal of the groups used to protect said aldehyde and hydroxyl groups. The tylosin derivatives of formula I may be used as a pharmaceutically acceptable salt such as an acid addition salt with an organic acid, e.g., tartaric acid, acetic acid, propionic acid, lactic acid, citric acid or succinic acid or an inorganic acid, e.g.hydrochloric acid, sulfuric acid or phosphoric acid.The pharmaceutically acceptable salts may be prepared in conventional manner The tylosin derivatives represented by the general formula I , and pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof are particularly effective against grampositive bacteria including some strains showing resistance to macrolide antibiotics Accordingly1 the tylosin derivatives according to the present invention can be used as human pharmaceuticals or veterinary drugs for prevention or treatment of bacterial infections. The antibacterial composition according to the present invention capable of being employed for prevention and treatment of bacterial infections as described hereinabove contains the tylosin derivative represented by the general formula I as an active ingredient. The antibacterial composition according to the present invention may be administered as solid preparations such as capsules, tablets, granules or the like c a lIquId preparations such as solutions, suspensions or the like through oral routes, rectal or parenteral routes. The preparations as described hereinabove may contain a conventional additive such as an excipient, binder, suspending agent, emulsifying agent, dissolution acid or buffer. The dosage may range from 1 mg kg to 100 mg kg per single dose when administered in humans, and from 1 mg kg to 1,000 mg kg per single dose when administered as a veterinary drug. The present invention will be described more in detail by way or working examples.Preparation Example 1 Tylosin dimethylacetal To a solution of 1 gram of tylosin in 20 ml of methanol was added 0.34 ml of difluoroacetic acid, and the mixture was allowed to stand at room temperature for 2 days. After the reaction was over, the reaction mixture was neutralized by sodium hydrogen carbonate, and methanol was then distilled off under reduced pressure. To the residue was added 50 ml of water, and the resulting solution was extracted with three 50 ml portions of ethyl acetate. The extract was dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate and concentrated under reduced pressure to leave 800 mg of a pale yellow crude powder which in turn was purified by means of silica gel column chromatography using a CHCl3 CH30H 10 1 mixture. Tylosin dimethylacetal was obtained with the yield of. about 400 mg. Mass Spectrum m z 961 N Proton NMR Spectrum 6 pom 3.25, 3.30 each 3Hs, C 20 0CH3 2 Preparation Example 2 Tylosin diphenylthioacetal To a solution of 10 grams of tylosin and 3.6 grams of phenyl disulfide in 80 ml of chloroform was added 4.5 ml of tri n butylphosphine under a nitrogen atmosphere, and the mixture was allowed to react at room temperature for 2 hours. After the reaction was over, the resulting reaction mixture was concentrated under reduced pressure, and the residue was purified by means of silica gel chromatography using a chloroform methanol concentrated ammonia 50 1 0.05 mixture to yield 7.9 grams 65 of tylosin diphenylthioacetal. Mass Spectrum m z 1117 M , 608 aglycone , 318 mycarosylmycaminose , 191 mycinose Proton NMR Spectrum 6 ppm 1.77 3Hs, N CH3 2 2.57 6Hs1 N CH3 2 3.45, 3.59 each 3Hs, 2 OCH3, 3 OCH3 4.16 lEd, J 7.5 Hz, H1 4.54 1Hd, J 8 0 Hz, H1, 5.0 b,H15 5.06 b, H1, 5.83 1Hd, J 9.5 Hz, H13 6.23 1Hd,J 13.5 Hz,H10 7.1 7.6 m,H11,aromatic ring proton Preparation Example 3 Demycarosyltylosin dimethylacetal A solution of 10 grams of tylosin in 100 ml of a 0.5 hydrogen chloride methanol mixture was allowed to react at room temperature for 1 hour.After the reaction was over, the resulting reaction mixture was poured into a saturated sodium hydrogen carbonate aqueous solution, and the mixture was extracted with chloroform. The resulting chloroform layer was dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate and concentrated to dryness under reduced pressure to give a crude powder.It was then subjected to silica gel column chromatography using a chloroform methanol concentrated ammonia 50 1 0.05 mixture to yield 8.5 grams 95 of demycarosyl tylosin dimethylacetal. Mass Spectrum m z 817 M , 468 aglycone , 190,174 mycaminose Proton NMR Spectrum 6 ppm 1.69 3Hs, H22 2.49 6Hs, N CH3 2 3.23, 3.28 each 3Hs, acetl CH3 3.45, 3.58 each 3Hs, 2 OCH3, 3 OCH3 4.30 lHd, J 7.5 Hz, H1, 4.55 1Hd, J 7.5 Hz, H1 4.96 1Hbt, J15,16 7.5 Hz, H15 5.86 lHbd, J ll.0 Hz, H13 6.25 1Hd, J 15.0 Hz, H1o 7.28 lHd, J 15.0 Hz, H11 Preparation Example 4 Demycarosyltylosin diphenylthioacetal a The procedures of Example 2 were followed with the exception that demycarosyltylosin was used instead of tylosin to give demycarosyltylosin diphenylthioacetal. b The procedures of Example 2 were followed with the exception that the reaction was carried out with the aid of acetic acid to give demycarosyltylosin diphenylthioacetal.Example 1 9 0 Ace yl 9 dihydrotylosin To a solution of 10 grams of tylosin diphenylthioacetal in 100 ml of chloroform was added 4.6 ml of acetic anhydride. The reaction mixture was poured into a cold saturated sodium hydrogen carbonate aqueous solution and then extracted with chloroform The extract was dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate and concentrated to dryness under reduced pressure to give 9.9 grams of 2 o acetyltylosin diphenylthioacetal as a colorless solid. The solid product obtained was dissolved in 7.4 ml of piperidine, and 7.4 ml of N trimethylsilyl imidazole was added to the solution. The mixture was allowed to stand at room temperature for 30 minutes, and the reaction mixture was diluted with chloroform and washed with a saturated sodium chloride solution.The resulting chloroform layer was dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate and concentrated to dryness under reduced pressure to leave a crude powder which in turn was purified by means of silica gel column chromatography using a benzene acetone 35 1 mixture. The yield of 2 O acetyl 3,3 ,4 ,4 tetra O trimethylsilyltylosin diphenylthioacetal was 4.1 grams, while 2 O acetyltylosin diphenylthioacetal was obtained as a pure product in the amount of 6.0 grams. Mass Spectrum m z 1447 M Proton NMR Spectrum 6 ppm 0.1 0.2 s, Si CH3 s 1.76 3Hs, H 22 2.03 3Hs, 2 OCOCH3 2.38 6Hs, 3 N CH3 2 3.46 3Hs, 2 1 OCH3 3.56 3Hs, 3 11 oCH3 4.56 lid, J 8.0 Hz, H 1 B 4.84 lHd, J 12.0 Hz, H 13 6.20 lEd, J 15.0 Hz, H 10 To a solution of 2.4 grams of 2 O acetyl 3,3 ,4 ,4 tetra O trimethylsilyltylosin diphenylthioacetal in 20 ml of diethyleneglycol dimethylether was added 83 mg of sodium borohydride, and the mixture was stirred at room temperature for 20 hours.The resulting reaction mixture was diluted with chloroform and washed with a saturated sodium chloride aqueous solution. The resulting chloroform layer was dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate and concentrated to dryness under reduced pressure to give a crude material which in turn was purified by means of silica gel column chromatography using a benzene acetone 30 1 mixture, thus leaving 1.1 grams of 2 O acetyl 3t3 ,4 ,4 tetra O trimethylsilyl 9 dihydrotylosin diphenylthioacetal Mass Spectrum m z 1449 M Proton NMR Spectrum ppm 0.1 s, OSi CH3 3 1.66 3Hs, H 22 2.00 3Hs, 2 OCOCH3 2.40 6Hs, 3 N CH3 2 3.46 3Hs,2 OCH3 3.56 3Hs,3 OCH3 5.46 1Hd, J 10.0 Hz, H 13 5.58 1Hdd,J0.10 4.0 Hz , J10,11 15.0 Hz,H 10 6.10 1Hd, J 15.0 Hz, H ll To a solution of 150 mg of 2 O acetyl 3,3 , 4 ,4 tetra O trimethylsilyl 9 dihydrotylosin diphenylacetal in 2 ml of pyridine was added 0.6 ml of acetic anhydride, and the mixture was allowed to stand at room temperature for 6 hours. The reaction mixture was then poured into a cold saturated sodium hydrogen carbonate aqueous solution, and the mixture was extracted with chloroform. The resulting chloroform layer was dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate and concentrated to dryness under reduced pressure. The resulting crude material was dissolved in a solution of 0.5 ml of a 1N tetrahydrofuran solution of tetrabutylammonium fluoride, and the solution was allowed to stand at room temperature for 30 minutes. The reaction mixture was diluted with chloroform, washed with a saturated sodium hydrogen carbonate aqueous solution, dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate, and concentrated to dryness under reduced pressure to give 9,2 di O acetyl 9dihydrotylosin diphenylthioacetal. The product was then dissolved in 5 ml of methanol and refluxed for 66 hours. After the methanol was distilled off under reduced pressure, the residue was diluted in chloroform, washed with a saturated sodium hydrogen carbonate aqueous solution, dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate, and concentrated to dryness under reduced pressure to give 9 O acetyl 9 dihydrotylosin diphenylthioacetal as a crude material. The crude material was then dissolved in 5 ml of a 15 aqueous tetrahydrofuran solution, and 50 mg of mercuric oxide red and 35 p1 of boron trifluoride ether complex were added. The mixture was stirred at room temperature for 1 hour, and the resulting reaction mixture was poured into a saturated sodium hydrogen carbonate aqueous solution. After extraction with diethyl ether, the extract was dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate and concentrated to dryness under reduced pressure to leave a crude powder. The crude material was then purified by means of silica gel thin layer chromatography with chloroform methanol concentrated ammonia 15 1 0.05 mixture to give 29 mg of 9 O acetyl9 dihydrotylosin. 28 a 64.5 c 1.0, CH30H D CH3OHUV A nm 235 18,500 max Mass Spectrum m z 815 M mycarose 625 M mycarosylmycaminose Proton NMR Spectrum ppm 1.70 3Hs, H 22 2.06 3Hs, COCH3 2.47 6H5, N CH3 2 3.43 3Hs,2 OCH3 3.57 3Hs,3 OCH3 4.27 lHd, J 8.0 Hz, H l 4.51 1Hd, J 8.0 Hz, H l 4.95 1Hbt,H 15 5.05 1Hd, J 3.0 Hz, H 1 5.36 1Hd,J 10.0 Hz,H 13 5.74 1Hdd, J9,10 3.0 Hz,J10,11 16.5 Hz,H 10 6.20 lHd, J 16.5 Hz, H ll 9.70 lHs, H 20 Example 2 9 O Propionyl 9 dihydrotylosin The procedures of Example 1 were followed with the exception that 0.7 ml of propionic anhydride was used instead of acetic anhydride. The resulting product was then treated to eliminate the protective groups in substantially the same manner as in Example 1 to give 30 mg of 9 O propionyl 9 dihydrotylosin. 23 a 80.30 c 1.0, CH30H D CH3OHUV A nm 235 25,700 max Mass Spectrum m z 829 M mycarose Proton NMR Spectrum 6 ppm 1.69 3Hs, H 22 2.53 6Hs, N CH3 2 3.43 3Hs,2 OCH3 3.57 3Hs,3 OCH3 4.27 1Hd,J 7.5 Hz, H 1 4.50 1Hd,J 7.5 Hz, H 1 4.95 1Hbt,J15,16 7.5 Hz,H 15 5.05 1Hd,J 3.0 Hz,H 1 5.33 1Hd, J 10.5 Hz, H 13 5.76 1Hdd,J9,10 4.0 Hz,J10,11 16.0 Hz,H 10 6.18 1Hd, J 16.0 Hz, H 11 9.68 lHs, H 20 Example 3 9 O Butyryl 9 dihydrotylosin Using 0.9 ml of butyric anhydride instead of acetic anhydride, the procedures of Example 1 were followed to give 22 mg of 9 O butyryl 9 dihydrotylosin. 23 alpha 72.5 c 1.0, CH3OH D CH3OHUV A nm 235 20,600 max Mass Spectrum m z 969 M H20 , 842 M mycarose , 812 M mycinose Proton NMR Spectrum ppm 1.69 3Hs, H 22 2.49 6Hs, N CH3 2 3.43 3Hs, 2 OCH3 3.57 3Hs, 3 OCH3 4.27 1Hd, J 7.5 Hz, H 1 4.50 lEd, J 7.5 Hz, H 1 4.95 1Hbt, H 15 5.05 1Hd, J 3.0 Hz, H 1 5.33 1Hd, J 10.5 Hz, H 13 5.76 1Hd, J9,10 4.5 Hz, J10,11 15.0 Hz, H 10 6.38 1Hd, J 15.0 Hz, H ll 9.68 lHs, H 20 Example 4 9 O Benzoyl 9 dihydrotylosin Using 0.5 ml of benzoyl chloride instead of acetic anhydride, the procedures of Example 1 were followed to give 57 mg of 9 O benzoyl 9 dihydrotylosin. 23 alpha 46.8 c 1.0, CH3CH D CH3OH W A nm 228 24,100 max Mass Spectrum m z 687 M mycarosylmycaminose Proton NMR Spectrum ppm 1.72 3Hs, H 22 2.5 6Hs, N CH3 2 3.38 3Hs, 2 OCH3 3.54 3Hs, 3 OCH3 4.35 lHd, J 8.0 Hz, H 1 4.48 lEd, J 8.0 Hz, H i 4.93 lHbt, H 15 5.08 lHbs, H l 5.35 lHb, J 10.0 Hz, H 13 5.92 lHdd, Jg,lo 4 6 Hz, J10,11 16.0 Hz,H 10 6.34 lEd, J 16.0 Hz, H ll 7.5 8.1 5Hm, aromatic proton Example 5 9 O Acetyl 9 dihydrodemycarosyltylosin To a solution of 10 grams of demycarosyltylosin dimethylacetal in 100 ml of chloroform was added 4.6 ml of acetic anhydride, and the mixture was allowed to stand at room temperature for 2 hours. The reaction mixture was poured into a cold saturated sodium hydrogen aqueous solution and the mixture was extracted with chloroform. The extract was dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate and concentrated to dryness under reduced pressure to give 2 ,4 di O acetyldemycarosyltylosin dimethylacetal as a crude material. The crude material obtained hereinabove was dissolved in 7 ml of peperidine, and 7 ml of N trimethylsilylimidazole were added to the solution. The mixture was allowed to stand at room temperature for 30 minutes, and the reaction mixture was diluted with chloroform, washed with a saturated sodium chloride solution, dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate, and concentrated to dryness under reduced pressure. The resulting crude powder was purified by means of silica gel column chromatography using a benzene acetone 20 1 mixture to give 5.3 grams of 2 ,4 di O acetyl3,4 di O trimethylsilyldemycaroxyltylosin dimethylacetal. Mass Spectrum m z 1447 M Proton NMR Spectrum 6 ppm 0.10, 0.17 each 9Hs, OSi CH3 3 1.76 3Hs, H 22 2.05 6Hs, 2 ,4 OCOCH3 2.34 6Hs,3 N CH3 2 3.20, 3.29 each 3Hs, 20 OCH3 2 3.47 3Hs, 2 OCH3 3.59 3Hs, 3 OCH3 4.38 1Hd, J 7.6 Hz, B 1 4.58 lHd, J 7.8 Hz, H l 5.87 IHd, J 10.3 Hz1 H 13 6.24 lHd, J 15.2 Hz, H 10 7.21 lHd, J 15.2 Hz, H ll To a solution of 1 gram of 2 ,4 di O acetyl 3,4 di O trimethylsilyldemycarosyltylosin dimethylacetal in 5 ml of diethyleneglycol dimethyl ether were added 30 ml of sodium borohydride and the mixture was stirred at room temperature for 20 hours. The reaction mixture was diluted with chloroform, washed with a saturated sodium chloride solution, dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate, and concentrated to dryness under reduced pressure. The residue was then purified by means of silica gel column chromatography using a benzene acetone 20 1 mixture to give 2 ,4 di 0 acetyl 3,4 di O trimethylsilyl 9 dihydrodemycarosyltylosin dimethylacetal. Mass Spectrum m z 1047 M Proton NMR Spectrum 6 ppm 0.16 18 Hs, Si CH3 3 1.70 3Hs, H 22 2.03, 2.05 each 3Hs, 2 ,4 OCOCH3 3.30, 3.44 each 3Hs, 20 OCH3 2 3.47 3Hs, 2 OCH3 3.59 3Hs, 3 OCH3 4.47 1Hd, J 8.6 Hz, H l 4.57 1Hd, J 9.1 Hz, H i 5.37 lEd, J 10.5 Hz, H 13 5.68 1Hdd, J9,10 3.2 Hz, J10,11 15.4 Hz 6.34 1Hd, J 15.4 Hz, H ll To a solution of 350 mg of 2 ,4 di O acetyl 3,4 di 0 trimethylsilyl 9 dihydrodemycarosyltylosin dimethylacetal in 2 ml of pyridine was added 1 ml of acetic anhydride, and the mixture was allowed to stand at room temperature for 6 hours.The reaction mixture was mixed with 5 ml of methanol and then refluxed for 2 hours. After concentration to dryness under reduced pressure, the residue was dissolved in 5 ml of acetonitrile and 1 ml of 1N HC1 was added. The reaction mixture was stirred for 1 hour, poured into a cold saturated sodium hydrogen carbonate aqueous solution and extracted with chloroform. The extract was dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate and concentrated to dryness under reduced pressure to leave a crude powder which in turn was purified by means of silica gel column chromatography using a chloroform methanol 20 1 mixture to give 194 mg of 9 O acetyl 9 dihydrodemycarosyltylosin. 28 ta 46,80 c 1.0, CH30H D CH3OHUV A nm 231 27,800 max Mass Spectrum m z 797 N 18 Proton NMR Spectrum ppm 1.71 3Hs, H 22 2.08 3Hs, 9 OCOCH3 2.50 6Hs, 3 N CH3 2 3.47 3Hs, 2 OCH3 3.61 3Hs, 3 OCH3 4.34 1Hd, J 7.5 Hz, H 1 4.54 1Hd, J 8.0 Hz, H 1 5.40 lEd, J 10.5 Hz, H 13 5.78 1Hdd, J9,10 4.0 Hz, J10,11 16.0 Hz,H 10 6.24 1Hd, J 16.0 Hz, H 11 9.74 lHs, H 20 Example 6 9 O Propionyl 9 dihydrodemycarosyltylosin To a solution of 350 mg of 2,4 di O acetyl 314 di O trimethylsilyl 9 dihydrodemycarosyltylosin dimethylacetal obtained in Example 5 in 2 ml of pyridine was added 1 ml of propionic anhydride, and the mixture was allowed to stand at room temperature for 6 hours to give 9 O propionyl 2 ,4 di O acetyl 3,4 di Otrimethylsilyl 9 dihydrodemycarosyltylosin dimethylacetal. The resulting acetal was then treated in substantially the same manner as in Example 5 to give 185 mg of 9 O propionyl 9 dihydrodemycarosyltylosin. 28 a 53.4 c 1., CH3OH D CH3OHUV A nm E 240 30,500 max Mass Spectrum m z 639 M mycaminose Proton NMR Spectrum 6 ppm 1.70 3Hs, H 22 2.49 6Hs, 3 N CH3 2 3.46 3Hs, 2 OCH3 3.61 3Hs, 3 OCH3 4.34 1Hd, J 7.5 Hz, H 1 4.54 lHd, J 8.0 Hz, H 1 5.37 lHd, J 10.0 Hz, H 13 5.79 lHdd, J9,10 4.0 Hz, J10,11 16.0 Hz, H 10 6.22 lHd, J 16.0 Hz 9.73 lHs, H 20 Example 7 9 O Butyryl 9 dihydrodemycarosyltylosin 2 ,4 Di O acetyl 3,4 di O trimethylsilyl9 dihydrodemycarosyltylosin dimethylacetal 350 mg was dissolved in 2 ml of pyridine, and 1 ml of butyric anhydride was added to the solution.The resulting mixture was then allowed to stand at room temperature for 6 hours to give 9 0 butyryl 2 ,4 di 0 acetyl 3,4 di O trimethylsilyl 9 dihydrodemyzarosyltylosin di methylacetal which in turn was treated in substantially the same manner in Example 5 to give 180 mg of 9 0butyryl 9 dihydrodemycarosyltylosin. 28 ta 520 c 1, CH30H D CH3OHUV A nm E 238 30,000 max Mass Spectrum m z 653 M mycaminose Proton NMR Spectrum 6 ppm 1.71 3Hs, H 22 2.50 6Hs, 3 N CH3 2 3.46 3Hs,2 OCH3 3.60 3Hs, 3 OCH3 4.34 1Hd, J 7.5 Hz, H l 4.54 1Hd, J 8.0 Hz, H 1 5.37 lEd, J 10.5 Hz, H 13 5.79 lHdd, J9,10 4.0 Hz, J10,11 16.0 Hz, H 10 6.23 1Hd, J 16.0 Hz, H ll 9.73 lHs, H 20 Example 8 9 O Benzoyl 9 dihydrodemycarosyltylosin 2 ,4 Di O acetyl O trimethylsilyl 9 dihydrodemycarosyltylosin dimethylacetal obtained in Example 5 was dissolved in 1 ml of pyridine, and 0.3 ml of benzoyl chloride was added to the solution. The resulting mixture was allowed to stand at room temperature for 6 hours to give 9 O benzoyl 2 ,4 di O acetyl 3,4 di O trimethylsilyl 9 dihydrodemycarosyltylosin dimethylacetal This acetal was then treated in substantially the same manner as in Example 5 to give 190 mg of 9 0benzoyl 9 benzoyl 9 dihydrodemycarosyltylosin. 21 a 38 c 1., CH30H D maxCH3OH nm 229 23,100 Mass Spectrum m z 756 M O or PhCO2 Proton NMR Spectrum 6 ppm 1.73 3Hs, H 22 2.55 6Hs, 3 N CH3 2 3.33 3Hs, 2 OCHs 3.54 3Hs, 3 OCH3 4.38 lHd, J 8.8 Hz, H 1 4.48 1Hd, J 7.8 Hz, H 1 5.33 1Hd, J 10.3 Hz, H 13 5.92 1Hdd, J9,10 3.9 Hz, J10,11 15.9 Hz,H 10 6.33 1Hd, J 15.9 Hz, H 11 7.3 7.7 3Hm, aromatic protons 7.9 7.2 2Hm, aromatic protons 9.67 1Hs, H 20 Example 9 Using the acetal or thioacetal obtained in each of Preparation Example 2 through 4, the procedures of each of Examples 1 through 8 were followed in substantially the same manner to give the corresponding products as given in each of Examples 1 through B. Experiment 1 Minimum Inhibitory Concentration g ml The tylosin derivatives obtained in Examples 1 through 9 were tested for their minimum inhibitory concentrations against gram positive and gram negative bacteria. The tests were conducted in conventional manner by inoculating varying concentrations of the test sample on a nutrient agar test medium and incubating at 370C for 18 20 hours. The concentrations of the test samples inhibiting the bacteria growth were measured in pg per ml as a minimum inhibitory concentration.The test results are shown below Table Minimum Inhibitory Concentrations g ml Test Organisms Ex.1 Ex.2 Ex.3 Ex.4 Ex.5 Ex.6 Ex.7 Ex.8 Tyl DetylStaphylococcus aureus 1.56 0.78 1.56 0.78 1.56 1.56 1.56 1.56 1.56 3.12 KB 210 ATC 65380 Bacillus subtilis 0.2 0.2 0.4 0.2 1.56 1.56 1.56 1.56 0.78 3.12 KB 143 IFO 3001 Micrococcus luteus 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.2 0.2 0.2 0.2 0.2 0.2 KB212 ATCC 9341 Escherichia coli 100 100 100 100 50 100 50 100 100 100 KB213 NIHJ Klebsiella pneumoniae 100 100 100 100 50 100 50 100 100 100 KB13 PCI 602 Notes Tyl TylsoinDetyl Demycarosyltylosin Experiment 2 In vivo Activity The compounds obtained in Examples 2 and 4 were separately administered subcutaneously or orally to mice infected with S. pyrogenes C203. The in vivo activity was measured as ED50 mg kg x 2 . The result are shown below TableCompounds Subcutaneous OralTylosin 1.0 50Example 2 2.5 12.5