# Plasminogen activator production.

## Abstract
Plasminogen activator, useful as a thrombus dissolving agent, is produced by culturing cells of the cell line RC K8 ECACC 86010801 and obtaining the plasminogen activator thus produced from the supernatant of the culture.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A process for producing plasminogen activator which process comprises culturing cells of the cell line RC K8 ECACC 86010801 and obtaining the plasminogen activator thus produced from the supernatant of the culture. 2. A process for producing plasminogen activator proenzyme, which process comprises culturing cells of the cell line RC K8 ECACC 86010801 in the presence of aprotinin and obtaining the proenzyme from the culture. 3. The RC K8 ECACC 86010801 cell line. 4. A culture of cells of the cell line RC K8 ECACC 86010801 in a nutrient culture medium therefor, said culture being substantially free of other microorganisms. 5. A culture according to claim 4 in which the nutrient culture medium is a synthetic culture medium containing a source of assimilable carbon, a source of assimilable nitrogen and, if desired, mineral salts. 6. A pharmaceutical composition comprising plasminogen activator produced by a process as claimed in claim 1 and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier or diluent.

## Description
PLASMINOGEN ACTIVATOR PRODUCTION This invention relates to plasminogen activator produced from a cell strain of malignant lymphoid tumor in a medical field. In recent years, as the plasminogen activator, urokinase which exists in urine, and tissue plasminogen activator produced from vascular endothelial cells or cell strains of malignant melanoma have been known.This plasminogen activator is an enzyme which acts on plasminogen to change the latter into plasmin having action of fibrinolysis. Recently, urokinase produced from urine and from cultured renal cells are widely used as a dissolving agent of thrombus. However, it becomes gradually difficult to collect fresh urine with its enlarged demand, and also production of urokinase which uses the cultured renal cells has a limit in supply of cells which produce urokinase. Therefore, these methods have many problems in the mass production of urokinase. Thrombotic deseases tend to increase in severe diseases such as myocardial infarction, cerebral apoplexy etc., so that useful development of treatments for dissolving thrombus is waited. Accordingly, it is expected that frequency in use of plasminogen activator having the action of fibrinolysis will increase in future. In order to resolve these problems, this invention provides plasminogen activator produced from a cell strain which is designated as RC K8 and established by a malignant lymphoid tumor cell. The above RC K8 is a culture cell line which increases semipermanently, and it is able to produce infinitely urokinase. Therefore, according to this invention, it is possible to produce urokinase in large quantities as well as to provide plasminogen activator given in a stable price. RC K8 is a cell strain which was established from ascites cells of a patient with malignant lymphoid tumor. This RC K8 cell strain is positive for humanB cell antigen B1 and have properties of immature B lymphocytes. As this RC K8 cell strain secretes a large quantity of plasminogen activator, plasminogen activator is obtainable from the supernatant of the culture solution by the simple technique of purification. The following examples illustrate the process for producing plasminogen activator of this invention.Preparation of RC K8 cells 30 mQ of ascites was obtained by paracentesis from a patient with malignant lymphoid tumor and the cells were collected by centrifugation. Cultures were initiated at 5xlo6 cells iti in 35 mm Petri dishes 3 mQ per dish with RPMI 1640 medium made by Flow Lab. supplemented with 15 fetal calf serum and 15 human cord serum. Cell strains obtained after 3 months were designated RC K8. RC K8 cells were adapted to grow in medium consisting of RPMI 1640 supplemented with 15 fetal calf serum. When the cells were seeded in flasks at 4x105 cells mB, the density of cells reached the saturation density of lox 106 cells m2 in 3 to 4 days with a doubling time of 48 to 60 hours. Karyotypic analysis of RC K8 revealed a modal chromosome number of 46 in 30 79 of 38 metaphases examined and several structural abnormalities including 14q . Routine histochemical stainings showed thatRC K8 cells were positive for acid phosphatase, periodic acid Schiff PAS , and a naphthyl butyrate esterase which was inhibited by NaF. Myeloid cell specific stainings such as peroxidase, Sudan black B, naphtholAS D chloroacetate esterase and alkaline phosphatase were all negative. The cells were negative for phagocytosis, lysozyme, and a1 antitrypsin. The peroxidase antiperoxidase staining method demonstrated that RC K8 was positive for a subunit of S 100 protein. Immunologic studies showed that RC K8 had receptors for complement but not for sheep erythrocytes or Fc portion of immunoglobin.By membrane immunofluorescence assay,RC K8 cells were shown to be positive for human B cell antigen B1 and Ia antigen OKIal , but negative for surface immunoglobulin and human T cell antigens Leu l,Leu 2a, and Leu 3a , common acute lymphoblastic leukemia antigen J5 , and monocyte antigen Mo2 . Neither cytoplasmic immunoglobulin nor Epstein Barr virus nuclear antigen EBNA was detected. These results showed that RC K8 possesses a unique phenotype for both monocytes macrophages a subunit of S 100 protein and B cells B1 . Lack of detectable surface and cytoplasmic immunoglobulins as markers for B cells or lysozyme and a antitrypsin as markers for histiocytes may reflect the poorly differentiated nature of the cells.Preparation of plasminogen activator 1x106 cells ni of RC K8 cells were floated onPetri dishes having a diameter of 3 cm with RPMI 1640 medium containing 10 fetal calf serum, and cultured inCO2 incubator under the atmosphere of 95 of air and 5 of CO2 at 370C for 3 days. Further, the cultured cells were gathered by centrifugation and washed with a culture solution three times and cultured in serum free solution of RPMI medium for 24 hours. Plasminogen activating activity equivalent to 15 20 IU of Urokinase was found in the supernatants of the culture solution. This plasminogen activator will be a type of urokinase because the activity was fully lost by reacting with anti urokinase anti serum. Plasminogen activator produced from RC K8 cell strain represents the activity of plasminogen activator having two kinds of molecular sizes 58,000 and 53,000 with zymography by the fibrin plate method which contains plasminogen after the gel electrophoresis of sodium dodecyl sulfate SDS polyacrylamide. The obtained molecular size partly differed from the molecular size of standard urokinase 53,000 only . Then, the obtained RC K8 cell strain was cultured in serum free medium containing aprotinine which was reversible inhibitor of plasmine. The cultured supernatant newly showed the activity of plasminogen activator having a molecular weight of 100,000. After the cultured solution containing aprotinine was reacted with diisopropyl fluorophosphate, the plasminogen activator activity was proved on zymography. This fact shows the possibility of the existence of proenzyme of plasminogen activator. Parallel to this test, T cell acute lymphocytic leukemia cell strain TALL 1 , acute promyelocytic leukemia cell strain PL 21 and chronic myelocytic leukemia line KCL 22 were tested for plasminogen activator. As it could be assumed that the inhibitor against plasminogen activator produced simultaneously in the cultured solutions, plasminogen activator activity was determined by SDS treatment 0.3 in order to eliminate the inhibitor. However, the cell strains except the RC K8 cell strain little showed the activity. Accordingly, the above fact shows that theRC K8 cell strain can also produce plasminogen activator of urokinase type having a high activity against hematopoietic cells under certain conditions in addition to renal cells or vascular endothelial cells as urokinase producing cells. The effect of this invention is as follows. 1. According to this invention, the RC K8 cell strain secretes a large amount of plasminogen activator, so that the thrombus dissolving agent which gives a stable price can be provided. 2. Retinoic acid, porbol ester, malignant virus and a certain hormone are considered as materials able to increase the production of plasminogen activator of cultured cells In future, the production of plasminogen activator can be increased by acting on these materials with the RC K8 cell strains. 3. It is known that plasminogen activator has not only fibrinolysis action but also many important actions of kinin production, reparation of tissues, wandering of cells, proliferation and transfer of tumor, transformation and enhancement of cells by virus. Therefore, this RC K8 cell strain will be effective in such researches. Samples of the RC K8 cells were deposited at theEuropean Collection of Animal Cell Cultures ECACC , PHLSCAMR, Porton Down, Salisbury, Wilts SP4 OJG, GB on 8 January 1986 under deposition no. ECACC 86010801.