# METHOD AND APPARATUS FOR ACCURATE POSITIONING OF A SOLID COMPONENT FOR A ROBOTIC PICKUP

## Claims
Verfahren zum genauen Positionieren eines festen Körpers aus einer Ladestation in eine entfernte Montagestation auf einer Montagefläche mittels eines Roboterarms,

## Description
This invention relates to an apparatus and method for aligning a solid component having rigid projections in preparation for pickup of the solid component by a robotic mechanism, see e.g. EP A 0 120 159. The accuracy of an automated robotic placement of a solid component at a required location is directly related to the accuracy of positioning the robotic head during pickup of the solid component and convenient, accurate alignment techniques, compatible with an automated pickup process, are necessary. One example of a solid component being robotically placed, is an electrical connector of the type having a dielectric body, with one or more arrays of outwardly extending metallic terminal pins mounted therein. For a totally automated placement of such connectors, an accumulation of placement inaccuracies must be considered, and the sum total of all such inaccuracies must be carefully controlled. For example, the terminals of such connectors are typically inserted in mounting holes drilled in a printed circuit board. In a fully automated process, a robotic pickup and insertion head would acquire a connector from a remote source such as a tray or the like, would move to a position on the printed circuit board, and would lower the connector a predetermined amount, thereby inserting the connector terminals in the mounting holes of the printed circuit board. However, with the increasing number of leads required in connectors, the closer spacing between leads and the closer spacing of components on the printed circuit board, it is becoming increasingly difficult to position each terminal of an array of a large number of closely spaced terminals in the array of mounting holes in the printed circuit board. In addition to inaccuracies of positioning successive printed circuit boards relative to a robotic insertion head, the inaccuracies of robotic movement from origin to destination, and the inaccuracies of the location of mounting holes relative to printed circuit board positioning holes, there is an inaccuracy in the position of connector terminals relative to the housing edge surfaces which are typically engaged by a robotic gripper head. The aggregate effect of these inaccuracies renders it difficult to insert all the leads of a connector into all of the printed circuit board mounted holes simultaneously, without causing damage to the leads or to the mounting holes. When loading connector terminals in a connector housing, it is possible to maintain their precise location with respect to each other with a fairly high degree of accuracy. Unfortunately, however, the position of the connector terminals with respect to external edge surfaces of the connector housing may vary significantly from connector to connector. In the past, attempts to automatically align the pins of the connector to the printed circuit board have used the external edges connector housing as the reference for alignment. Since the terminals have a potential error in placement with respect to the connector housing, they also have a potential error in placement with respect to the mounting holes. Hence, the common technique used in the prior art to align the terminals to the mounting holes is to place the connector on the printed circuit board so that terminals of the connector are approximately aligned with the mounting holes. Final alignment is accomplished by an additional automated process, or manually, by an operator. One example of an alignment apparatus and method for use with an automated assembly process, is described in U.S. Patent No. 4,479,298. The patent addresses the need of accurately positioning the various wafer like stages of an integrated circuit IC package assembly. The technique used requires an alignment fixture, comprising a coarse alignment pedestal mounted on a fine alignment block, for receiving the IC package and aligning the leads thereof with respect to a two dimensional reference co ordinate system. The leads of the package, however, are of a surface mount type, having solder pads extending parallel to the wafer like body. The arrangment disclosed is for fixing the location of the leads, relative to the remainder of the IC package, and does not address the need for accurately positioning a component in three dimensional space in preparation for pickup by a robot arm or the like automated assembly technique. United Kingdom Patent Application 2,131,331 describes a technique to aid in the robotic placement of a plurality of different shaped components on a printed wiring board. The technique uses a template designed for use with a particular printed wiring board, having accurately dimensioned openings for receiving the plurality of electronic components. To aid in seating the components in the template and to aid introducing the leads thereof into the mounting holes of the printed wiring board, the template and board are vibrated. This technique is not concerned with the accurate pickup of a component with a robotic arm, since it compensates for any inaccuracies by using the template to guide the components after they are robotically placed at their final destination. U.S. Patent No. 4,459,743 describes a technique for the atuomatic mounting of chip components, stored in a parts hopper, for placement on a printed circuit board. The system uses a combination of X direction and Y direction shuttle mechanisms. The components are conveyed downwardly along a sliding track, with the outermost projecting surface thereof coming to rest against a stopper member. Thereafter, the part is conveyed to the X Y conveyance apparatus. U.S. Patent No. 4,470,182 Zemek et al, discloses an arrangement for centering electrical components that are mounted on a paper tape substrate. The arrangement displaces the components along their longitudinal centerlines, in a direction perpendicular to the axis of the paper tape substrate. The arrangement uses a pair of spaced apart arms which come together, to provide an automatic centering of the components, relative to the centerline of the arm mechanism. It is therefore apparent that a need exists in the art for an apparatus and method to accurately align the terminals of an electrical connector to the mounting holes of a printed circuit board to which the connector is to be mounted. Such an apparatus and method, if compatible with automated robotic insertion techniques would not only lower the manufacturing costs but also would improve the quality of the electronic device produced. EP A 0120159 discloses a method of and apparatus for handling a component, having a body and one or more members protruding therefrom such that the protruding members are put in proper mating registration with corresponding holes in a substrate or the like, a gauge being used to effect the alignment. However, the component handling means involves moving the component to three stations prior to insertion at a fourth station and this process is time consuming. It is therefore an object of the present invention to provide a method of and an apparatus for accurately positioning a solid body from a loading station to a remote mounting station on a mounting surface by means of a robotic arm. Thus, from one aspect, the present invention provides a method of accurately positioning a solid body from a loading station to a remote mounting station on a mounting surface by means of a robotic arm in which the body has an external surface defined between a pair of opposed external edges, and at least one linear array of projections having a predetermined configuration depending from said external surface located between said external edges. The mounting surface includes a linear array of projection receiving apertures having a configuration corresponding to that of said linear array of said projections. The robotic arm has a head which engages said external edges of said solid body, to pick up and thereby withdraw said solid body from said loading station, moving said solid body to said remote mounting station so as to overlie said array of projection receiving apertures, and lowering said solid body so as to insert said solid projections in said apertures. The linear array of projections is positioned along a reference line a b having a configuration corresponding to that of said linear array of projections, where a is a position of a lead projection the robotic head is positioned to overlie said connector at a given orientation with respect to said reference line said edges of said solid body are gripped independent of the orientation of said head said arm is raised withdrawing said solid body from said loading station, and then moved so moving said solid body to said mounting station said head is orientated such that said projections overlie and are aligned with said linear array of mounting holes and said head is lowered so inserting said solid projections in said apertures. The present invention also provides apparatus for accurately positioning a solid body from a loading station to a remote mounting station on a mounting surface by means of a robotic arm, the body having an external surface defined between a pair of opposed external edges, and at least one linear array of projections having a predetermined configuration depending from said external surface located between said external edges. The mounting surface includes a linear array of projection receiving apertures having a configuration corresponding to that of said linear array of said projections. The robotic arm has a head which engages said external edges of said solid body, means to pick up and thereby withdraw said solid body from said loading station, means for moving said solid body to said remote mounting station so as to overlie said array of projection receiving apertures, and means for lowering said solid body so as to insert said solid projections in said apertures. Means is provided for positioning said linear array of projections along a reference line a b having a configuration corresponding to that of said linear array of projections, where a is a position of a lead projection together with means for positioning the head to overlie said connector at a given orientation with respect to said reference line means for gripping said edges of said solid body independent of the orientation of said head means for raising said arm and withdrawing said solid body from said loading station, and for moving said solid body to said mounting station means for orientating said head such that said projections overlie and are aligned with said linear array of mounting holes and means for lowering said head and inserting said solid projections in said apertures. Some ways of carrying out the present invention in both its method and apparatus aspects will now be described by way of example, and not by way of limitation, with reference to drawings which show specific embodiments of apparatus in accordance with the present invention. In the drawings, wherein like elements are referenced alike, Referring now to the drawings, Fig. 1 is a plan view of a component loading station 21, a component mounting station 22, and a robotic insertion mechanism 52 which transports solid components between the two stations. The solid components being moved between the stations are of a type having solid projections extending from an external surface thereof. An example of this type of component is illustrated in the figures as an electrical connector 12. Connector 12 see Figs. 1 and 3 has a solid dielectric body 14, with an upper surface 16, and a lower support surface 18, and two linear arrays of metallic terminals or solid projections 20 depending from surface 18. As is known in the art, connector 12 is conveyed along a feed track 24 comprising two spaced apart projection receiving slots 26, 28 formed between outside track walls 30, 32 and a medial track wall 34. Track walls 30, 32, 34 each have an upper surface designated by the subscript u, for contacting and slidingly supporting the support surface 18 of connector bodies 14. Referring again to Fig. 1, it can be seen that the linear arrays of projections 20 of each connector 12 are maintained in fairly close alignment with projection receiving slot 26. However, the dielectric bodies 14 of each connector are not maintained in such alignment, as is shown in Fig. 1, to a greatly exagerrated extent for the purposes of illustration. Accurate positioning of the terminals 20 with respect to the terminal receiving apertures 23 Referring to Figs. 2 and 3, locating apparatus gnerally designated at 10, comprises an extended section of track 24 having a free end 44. The upper support surfaces of apparatus 10 are accurately positioned to provide the correct placement height for connector 12. A stop wall 48 is provided in slot 26 adjacent the free end 44 of apparatus 40, being positioned to contact only a leading projection designated 20 Also located in slot 26, is a moveable alignment bar 50, generally coextensive with the linear array of projections 20. Initially, bar 50 is positioned immediately adjacent medial track wall 34 to provide clearance for the projections 20, ensuring engagement between leading projection 20 To review the alignment afforded by the present apparatus, connectors 12 have a linear array of projections 20 depending therefrom. These projections are to be received in the mounting apertures 23 Robotic mechanism 52 includes a lower floating gripper head 52 When employed with the positioning arrangement, the robotic pickup arm 52 If desired, projection receiving and straightening recesses 60 may be formed in reference surface 58 to aid in aligning and straightening the projections with respect to each other and with respect to the reference surface 58. Only a few of the recesses 60 are shown on Fig. 2, for the purpose of clarity. However, in the preferred embodiment, all of the projections have corresponding recesses 60. In the present apparatus, accurate positioning of projections 20 relative to a robotic pickup mechanism is accomplished, as opposed to prior art techniques of aligning the external connector body surfaces to the pickup mechanism. The apparatus of Figs. 4 and 5 also provides accurate positioning of an electrical connector or the like solid component 12 in three dimensional space. Connector 12 is conveyed along feed track 24 for presentation to a positioning station designated at 160. Track 24 is substantially identical to that described above with reference to Figs. 2 and 3, except medial wall 34 is terminated at a free end 34 Station 160 is defined in part by a retractable positioning finger 162 which projects into track 26 to engage the leading projection 20 Gauge block 166 is of a type having an upper wall 172 defining a plurality of accurately dimensioned, close tolerance projection receiving apertures 168 communicating with funnel shaped entrance portions 170. Apertures 168 are arranged in two linear arrays, corresponding to the desired configuration of the serial arrays of projections 20, in connector 12. As is known in the art, gauge block 166 when applied to projections 20, straightens any bends or other malformations in projections 20, providing the desired configuration for the projections, as well as the desired spacing between projections. Gauge block 166 is provided with a mounting, not shown in the figures, for accurate positioning in three dimensional space. Thus, in addition to providing the usual correction to projections 20, gauge block 166 is employed in the present apparatus to provide an extremely accurate positioning of those projections, for presentation to a robotic pickup mechanism or the like automated positioning apparatus. As gauge block 166 is upwardly advanced, projections 20 are received within apertures 168 to fix those projections accurately in the plane of Fig. 4. An upper stop wall 176 is positioned to overlie the upper surface 16 of connector 12, to balance the upward force generated by the frictional engagement between projections 20 and apertures 168 of gauge block 166. After projections 20 are fully received in apertures 168, gauge block 166 with the connector 12 engaged therewith , is advanced in a rightward direction to assume the final loading station 178 shown in the righthand portions of Figs. 4 and 5. Loading station 178, which corresponds to station 21 of Fig. 1, is defined by a block 180 which engages the leading end 166 Driving mechanisms for raising gauge block 166 can, as is known in the art, be provided with an accurately defined upper limit so as to accurately position the upper surface 172 of gauge block 166. Thus, connector 12, in its final loading station 178, is accurately positioned in three dimensional space, and is made accessible to the robotic pickup mechanism 52 not shown located above track 24. With the projections 20 of connector 12 being accurately placed, the pickup position of the robotic mechanism can be accurately and precisely aligned with the final loading station. With projections 20 being accurately fixed at loading station 178, and thereby being aligned with a robotic pickup mechanism, the floating gripper head 52 It has been assumed in the discussion above, that the solid projections 20 are rigidly fixed in connector body 14. However, other types of connectors have terminals loosely positioned in the connector body. The degree of freedom of these terminals is significantly greater than the tolerance required for robotic placement on a printed circuit board. Apparatus as described herein with reference to the drawings when employed with a robotic gripper mechanism having arms which also engage projections 20 adjacent the support surface 18 of connector body 14, can provide a close tolerance simultaneous placement of all projections 20 of a given linear array, in a linear array of printed circuit board mounting holes. In Figs. 6 to 9, the locating apparatus designated generally at 210 has track 24 substantially identical to the guide tracks described above, except that a necked down portion 234 is aligned with intermediate wall 34 to provide a smooth transition with a guide bar 260 of reduced width. As connector 12 slides along track 24, it is supported in its upstream position by track walls 30, 32, 34. Upon reaching the final loading station of Figs. 6 to 9, it is supported from below by guide bar 260 and by longitudinally extending moveable bars or follower plates 300 which prevent connector 12 from tipping sideways, becoming dislodged from guide bar 260. A groove 18 A shuttle assembly, designated generally at 310, provides the final delivery of connector 12 to the loading position shown in Fig. 8, for presentation to a floating gripper head 52 Gauge block 166 is accurately positioned by a stop wall 320 which abuts one end 266 As gauge block 166 is raised, its upper surface 167 contacts the bottom mounting surface 18 of connector 12, as well as the bottom free end of follower plates 300. Further upward movement of gauge block 166 causes connector 12, follower plates 300, and latch arms 332 to be elevated as a single unit, once projections 20 are fully received in gauge block apertures 168. As can be seen in Fig. 6, cam blocks 348 are formed as an extension of a mounting base 360. Latch arms 332 further include tab like extensions 364 which are biased in a downward direction, owing to their engagement with spring loaded pin 370 which projects beyond the lower portion of mounting base 360. A spring 372 biases pin member 370, providing the downward spring force imparted to latch arms 332, which maintains engagement between retaining fingers 330 and the top surface 16 of connector body 14. As gauge block 166 is elevated, latch arms 332 undergo two distinct motions, owing to the configuration of their camming surface 344. Initially, fulcrum points 350 of stationary cam blocks 348 engage the upper portions 344 Thereafter, gauge block 166 is lowered to its initial position, latch arms 332 are drawn together, and another connector 12 is inserted into apparatus 210. Fingers 330 prevent bowing of connector 12 as it rebounds against stop wall 320. As before, the driving mechanism which lifts the shuttle assembly holds the gauge block fixed during withdrawal of connector 12 therefrom.