# PREFORMED COATING, PARTICULARLY FOR MOTORVEHICLE GEAR SHIFT LEVERS

## Claims
Ein überzug für einen Fahrzeug Getriebeschalthebel mit einem Hüllenabschnitt 212 zum Überdecken von zumindest dem oberen Abschnitt 20 des Stabes des Schalthebels und einem balgartigen Abschnitt 213 zum Überdecken von zumindest der Zone des Gelenkes des Hebels, wobei der Hüllenabschnitt des Überzuges eine ausgehöhlte, kugelige Ausbildung an dem freien oberen Ende aufweist und damit einstückig ist, dadurch gekennzeichnet, daß

## Description
This invention relates to a coating or cover particularly intended for motorvehicle gear shift levers. Currently used gear shift levers comprise a metal rod projecting from a central cabinet on the car floor, commonly termed console , and are provided with a knob grip, as well as with a bellows saal arranged to protect the lever swivel joint at said console. The knob, which may have various configurations and sizes, is threaded onto or snap engaged with the rod end the bellows seal is fitted over the rod and generally jointed or clamped to the console base. This prior arrangement of parts is scarcely effective as regards the bellows capability to prevent dust and moisture penetration, and is inconvenient when the bellows seal itself is to be replaced. Accordingly the task of the invention is that of obviating the aforesaid deficiencies, while improving the aesthetic appearance of the gear shift lever assembly. According to the co pending parent European patent application No.82102204.3 EP A 0 061 662 this task is achieved by a preformed integral coating, particularly for motorvehicle gear shift levers, characterized in that it incorporates the lever knob grip and lever protective bellows seal for the lever articulation joint. Advantageously, the coating is of polymeric material, and comprises a central sleeve enclosing the lever rod and terminating, without continuity breaks, at one end in a knob, including a force fit check seat for the rod end, and, at the other end, in a bellows seal formed with a groove adapted to cooperate with a mating check seat provided on the console. According to this patent application the said task is achieved by the invention as defined in claim 1. The invention will be more clearly understood by making reference to the detailed description which follows, in conjunction with the accompanying illustrative, and not limitative, drawings, where Making reference initially to Figures 1 and 2, the reference numeral 10 generally designates the coating or cover according to the above identified parent application, and 20 the end of the metal rod constituting the gear shift lever of a passenger car. In accordance with the said parent application, the coating or cover 10, advantageously formed from a polymeric material such as soft PVC, comprises a central tubular sheath 11 which is terminated, as a one piece construction and without continuity breaks, at one end in a knob grip 12, and, at the other end in a bellows seal 13 for protecting the lever articulation joint or connection. The knob 12 is provided with a check seat 14 adapted to accommodate the end 20 of the rod in force fit relationship. The seat 14 is formed in an insert 15, preferably made of a rigid polymeric material embedded in the knob 12 by a co molding process, and is provided with an O ring 14a adapted to engage, by elastic deformation of its material, in a corresponding groove 20a on the rod end 20. The bellows seal 13, preferably in the shape of a truncated pyramid, is in turn provided with an end groove 13a adapted to be engaged by the edge of a corresponding opening provided in the console K, wherefrom there extends the gear shift lever. The coating or cover can be easily assembled by fitting it over the rod and pushing axially on the knob to produce the force fit engagement of the rod end in the seat 14, as specified hereinabove. Then, the groove 13a of the bellows seal is engaged with the edge of the opening provided in the console K, as clearly shown in Figure 2. The coating continuity ensures a perfectly tight seal, impervious to dust and moisture, while imparting the shift lever a pleasing aesthetic appearance. In the modified embodiment of the parent application shown in Figures 3 to 7, the insert 15 comprises a hollow element formed by two juxtaposed half shells 150 151 of a rigid polymeric material. Such half shells define a spherical profile solid with recessed radial lobes 152 in cruciform relationship, which delimit corresponding outer depressions 153 wherein the material of the coating 10 Figure 4 spreads to prevent any displacement of the insert relatively to the coating. The bottom half shell 150 carries an axial tube 154 which, at the upper portion thereof, is surrounded, for checking and stiffening purposes, by the radial lobes 152 of the top half shell 151. In the tube 154, there is force fitted the depressed end 200 of the rod 20 which is urged to abut against the end of the tube. Again for lightening reasons, as well as to facilitate the fitting of the coating or cover over the lever 20, the sheath portion 11 of the coating has a bore of significantly larger diameter than the rod 20, and is provided with axial ribs 120, separated by respective lightening voids, which ribs lay adjacent the lever with the coating fitted in place. In the embodiment of this invention, shown in Figure 8, the coating or cover is formed by two portions 212 213, advantageously but not limitatively formed both from a polymeric material, and respectively including the protective bellows seal for the swivel joint and the knob grip of the lever, which otherwise are the same as in the parent application. The two portions, which should be molded separately, are detachably interconnected at C by means of a fastener formation which ensures an apparent surface continuity to form, upon completion of the connection, an integral coating sleeve. Preferably, the detachable fastener formation is implemented by providing on either of the two portions a collar 211 having an undercut toric profile, and on the other portion a mating seat 221 the collar and seat snap engaging together by virtue of the inherent elasticity of the material. This coating or cover may be assembled either by separately fitting the two portions 212 213 over the lever and then interconnecting them, or by fitting the coating as a whole after connecting the two portions together.