# PHARMACEUTICAL COMPOSITION FOR COMBINATION THERAPY OF HORMONE DEPENDENT CANCERS

## Claims
Verwendung eines Antiandrogens bei der Herstellung einer pharmazeutischen Zusammensetzung zur Behandlung von geschlechtssteroidabhängigem Krebs in einem warmblütigen Tier, der

## Description
This invention relates to pharmaceutical compositions and kits for use in the combination therapy of sex steroid dependent cancers in susceptible warm blooded animals as defined below. While various investigators have been studying hormone dependent breast and prostate cancer, none have proposed the combination therapy of this invention. A. V. Schally et al., Cancer Treatment Reports, T. W. Redding and A. V. Schally, Pro. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA, In U.S. Patent 4,071,622, it is disclosed that use of certain LH RH agonists causes regression of DMBA induced mammary carcinoma in rats. In U.S. Patent 4,472,382, it is disclosed that prostate adenocarcinoma, benign prostate hypertrophy and hormone dependent mammary tumors may be treated with various LH RH agonists and that prostate adenocarcinoma and benign hypertrophy may be treated by use of various LH RH agonists and an antiandrogen. However, there is no suggestion or disclosure of the present invention. Some clinical improvement in premenopausal women with breast cancer by use of the two LH RH agonists, Buserelin and Leuprolide, is also reported by H.A. Harvey et al. LH RH analogs in the treatment of human breast cancer , Treatment of advanced breast cancer with aminoglutethimide after therapy with the antiestrogen, Tamoxifen is disclosed by A.V. Buzdar et al., Cancer, H. Flax et al., Lancet, 1204 1207, 1973 , suggest some women s breast cancers are androgen dependent. In U.S. Patent 4,329,364, it is disclosed that the antiandrogen, 4 nitro 3 trifourormethyl isobutyranilide may be used for treatment of prostatic cancer. Some clinical improvement in men with prostate cancer by use of the two LH RH agonists, Buserelin and Leuprolide, is also reported by N. Faure et al. at pages 337 350 and by R.J. Santen et al. at pages 351 364, respectively, R. Santen et al., The Journal of Steroid Biochemistry, Volume 20, No 6B, at page 1375 1984 , disclose that use of ketoconazole in combination with chronic administration of Leuprolide in rodents decreased basal and Leuprolide stimulated testosterone levels. D. Kerle et al., The Journal of Steroid Biochemistry, Volume 20, No 6B, at page 1395 1984 disclose that the combined use of a LH RH analogue and ketoconazole produced objective responses in some prostate cancer patients who have relapsed or failed to respond to treatment with a LH RH analogue alone. F. Labrie et al., Abstracts of 7th International Congress of Endrocrinology, Excerpta Medica 1984 at page 98 discloses that treatment of prostate cancer patients with LH RH agonists alone causes a transient increase in serum androgen levels lasting for 5 to 15 days before castration levels are reached. While F. Labrie et al. recommends that orchiectomy, estrogen and LH RH agonists alone should not be further used for treatment of prostate cancer in the absence of a pure antiandrogen, there still is a need for a method of treatment of prostate cancer that effects more complete androgen blockage at the start as well as during the full period of treatment. F. Labrie et al., The Prostate, F. Labrie et al., J. Steroid Biochem., In U.S. Patent 4,094,994, it is disclosed that the use of antiestrogens such as meso 3,4 bis 3 hydroxyphenyl hexane inhibits MCF7 human breast tumor cells. In fact, the inhibitory activity of the anti estrogen was antagonized by estradiol. H. Mouridsen et al,. Cancer Treatment Review 5, 131 141, 1978 , disclose that Tamoxifen, an antiestrogen is effective in remission of advanced breast cancer in about 30 of the patients treated. J.G.M. Klijn et al., J. Steroid Biochem, Vol. 20 No. 6B , 1381 1984 , disclosed the combined use of the antiestrogen, Tamoxifen, and the LH RH agonist, Buserelin, for treatment of breast cancer is known, but objective remission of such cancers remains low 35 . EP A 0 145 258 describes LH RH analogues useful as LH RH agonists and their so called physiological utilities low dose effects and paradoxical utilities high dose effects . The latter include blocking or abolishing gonadal steroid output and therapy of certain tumours. EP A 0 143 573 describes a class of GnRH antagonists which inhibit gonadal function and mentions their use in treatment of hormone dependent neoplasias. The present invention provides a new combination therapy of sex steroid dependent cancers which inhibits tumour growth and metastases and causes in some instances complete remission. In one aspect, the invention provides a kit comprising a combination of pharmaceutical compositions for combination therapy of sex steroid dependent cancers being The kits of the invention may comprise a kit comprising two pharmaceutical compositions selected from The invention further provides the use of an antiandrogen in the manufacture of a pharmaceutical composition for the treatment in a warm blooded animal of a sex steroid dependent cancer being Antiestrogens may be used as additional optional components of the kits according to the invention and as optional therapeutic agents in the combination therapies described herein. The kits and medicament combinations of the inventions may be used for treating sex steroid dependent cancers such as, for example, breast cancer in a warm blooded female animal in need of such treatment which comprises administering to said animal whose hormone output of the ovaries is blocked, a therapeutically effective amount of an antiandrogen or a pharmaceutical compopsition thereof. The ovarian hormonal secretions of said animal can be blocked by surgical or chemical means. In post menopausal women the attending clinician may decide that the hormone output of the ovaries need not be blocked . By completely blocking sex steroids androgens and estrogens production and or action, the present invention provides a method of inhibiting the growth of sex steroid sensitive tumors, e.g., breast tumors in warm blooded animals having such tumors. In female mammals, the ovaries may be surgically removed oophorectomy but preferably the secretion of estrogens from the ovaries is blocked by chemical castration by administering an effective amount of an LH RH agonist or antagonist. In its preferred aspect, the LH RH agonist is administered parenterally subcutaneously or intra muscularly or intranasally and, in association therewith, the antiandrogen and the inhibitor of sex steroid biosynthesis and or antiestrogen are each administered orally. Thus, kits and medicament combinations of this invention provide a novel means for effective treatment of sex steroid dependent cancers such as, for example, female breast cancer, in the absence of antiestrogen. In addition, the amounts of antiestrogen required when administered in association with this combined therapy are lower than normally used in prior art methods, e.g., J.G.M. Klijn et al., J. Steroid Biochem. In one preferred aspect, the present invention provides an effective method of treating sex steroid dependent cancers such as, for example, breast cancer in warm blooded female animals in need of such treatment by administering an LH RH agonist or antagonist, in association with an antiandrogen and an inhibitor of sex steroid biosynthesis or pharmaceutical compositions thereof in amounts sufficient to inhibit tumor growth. These active compounds can be administered together or in any order as discussed hereinafter. To assist in determining the effect of the treatment, blood plasma concentrations of the sex steroids of adrenal and ovarian origin, i.e., precursor steroids, androgens and estrogens, and tumor size are measured. Lowered concentrations of sex steroids and reduction in tumor size are indicative of successful treatment, e.g. inhibition of tumor growth using active compounds described herein in accordance with the present invention. The concentrations of adrenal androgens and estrogens such as dehydroepiandrosterone DHEA , DHEA sulfate DHEAS , androst 5 ene 3β,17β diol Δ⁵ diol and, the ovarian estrogen, 17β estradiol E₂ are measured by standard methods well known to those skilled in the art, see for example F. Labrie et al., The Prostate, The change in tumor size is measured by standard physical methods well known to those skilled in the art, e.g., bone scan, chest X ray, skeletal survey, ultrasonography of the liver and liver scan if needed , CAT scan and physical examination. While a LH RH agonist or a LH RH antagonist may be used in one preferred aspect of the present invention, the use of a LH RH agonist is more preferred. In another aspect, kits and medicament combinations of the invention provide a means of treating breast cancer in a warm blooded male animal in need of such treatment which comprises blocking the testicular hormonal secretions of said animal by surgical or chemical means and administering to said animal a therapeutically effective amount of an antiandrogen, or a pharmaceutical composition thereof. In another aspect, this involves treating breast cancer in a castrated warm blooded male animal, i.e., such a male animal whose testes are blocked by surgical or chemical means from secreting androgen, which comprises administering to an animal in need of such treatment therapeutically effective amounts of an antiandrogen in assocciation with at least one inhibitor of sex steroid biosynthesis, or a pharmaceutical composition thereof, in an amount sufficient to treat the cancer. By simultaneously blocking sex steroids androgens and estrogens of testicular and adrenal origin production and or action, the present invention provides a method of inhibiting the growth of sex steroid sensitive breast tumors in warm blooded male animals having such tumors. In male mammals, the removal of testicular androgens may be achieved by surgical castration but preferably the secretion of androgens from the testes is blocked by chemical castration by administering to the warm blooded male animal, an effective amount of an LH RH agonist or antagonist. Thus, in a preferred aspect, the kits and medicament combinations of the present invention provide a means of treating breast cancer in a warm blooded male animal, which comprises administering to an animal in need of such treatment an LH RH agonist or antagonist in association with an antiandrogen and optionally an antiestrogen and or at least one inhibitor of sex steroid biosynthesis as discussed in the preceding paragraph, preferably in association with an antiandrogen, of a pharmaceutical composition thereof, in amounts sufficient to treat the cancer. In its preferred aspect, the LH RH agonist or antagonist is administered parenterally subcutaneously or intramuscularly and the antiandrogen, the antiestrogen and the inhibitor s of sex steroid biosynthesis if used are administered orally. In one preferred aspect, the kits and medicament combinations of the present invention provide an effective means of treating breast cancer in warm blooded male animals in need of such treatment by administering a LH RH agonist or antagonist in association with an antiandrogen or pharmaceutical compositions thereof in amounts sufficient to inhibit tumor growth. The use of an LH RH agonist in association with an antiandrogen produced almost complete blockage of testicular steroid secretion while simultaneously blocking about 25 to 60 of the precursor sex steroids androgens and estrogens of adrenal origin. See Figure 3 and Example 1. In still another preferred aspect, at least one inhibitor of sex steroid biosynthesis is administered to warm blooded male animals having breast cancer in association with surgical castration or chemical castration by use of an LH RH agonist or antagonist and the antiandrogen. These active compounds can be administered together or in any order as discussed hereinafter. To assist in determining the effect of the treatment, blood plasma concentrations of the testical and adrenal androgens and estrogens and tumor size are measured. Lowered concentrations of sex steroids and precursors and reduction in tumor size are indicative of successful treatment, e.g. inhibition of tumor growth. The concentrations of adrenal androgens and estrogens such as dehydroepiandrosterone DHEA , DHEA sulfate DHEAS , androst 5 ene 3β,17β diol Δ⁵ diol and, the estrogen, 17β estradiol E₂ are measured by standard methods well known to those skilled in the art, see for example F. Labrie et al., The Prostate, The active compounds described herein and used in accordance with the present invention exhibited tumor growth inhibition and lowered concentrations of sex steroids when tested in warm blooded male animals including man. See Figures 1, 2 and 3 and the descriptions thereof in Example 1. The change in tumor size is measured by standard physical methods well known to those skilled in the art, e.g., bone scan, chest X ray, skeletal survey, ultrasonography of the liver and liver scan if needed , CAT scan and physical examination. While a LH RH agonist or a LH RH antagonist may be used in one preferred aspect of the present invention, the use of a LH RH agonist is more preferred. In another aspect, kits and medicament combinations of the invention provides a means of treating prostate cancer in a warm blooded male animal including humans in need of such treatment which comprises blocking the testicular hormonal secretions of said animal by surgical or chemical means and administering to said animal a therapeutically effective amount of an antiandrogen in association with at least one inhibitor of sex steroid biosynthesis, or pharmaceutical compositions thereof. By simultaneously blocking androgens of testicular and adrenal origin production and or action, the present invention provides a method of inhibiting the growth of sex steroid sensitive carcinomas in warm blooded male animals having such carcinomas. In male mammals, the removal of testicular androgens may be achieved by surgical castration orchiectomy but preferably the secretion of androgens from the testes is blocked by chemical castration by administering to warm blooded male animal, an effective amount of an LH RH agonist or antagonist. In a preferred aspect, kits and medicament combinations of the present invention provide a means of treating prostate cancer in a warm blooded male animal having such cancer, which comprises administering to said animal therapeutically effective amounts of an LH RH agonist or antagonist in association with an antiandrogen and at least one inhibitor of sex steroid biosynthesis, or pharmaceutical compositions thereof. In its preferred aspect, the LH RH agonist is administered parenterally subcutaneously or intra muscularly and the antiandrogen and the inhibitor s or inhibitors of sex steroid biosynthesis are each administered orally. In one preferred aspect, kits and medicament combinations of the present invention provides an effective means of treating prostate cancer in warm blooded male animals in need of such treatment by administering a LH RH agonist or antagonist in association with an antiandrogen and an inhibitor of sex steroid biosynthesis of testicular origin or pharmaceutical compositions thereof in amounts sufficient to inhibit such cancer. By use of an inhibitor of testicular sex steroid biosynthesis in association with an antiandrogen and a LH RH agonist or antagonist more complete androgen blockage is effected at an early stage in the treatment of such particularly prostate cancer than achieved by prior art methods. If an inhibitor of sex steroid biosynthesis of both testicular and adrenal origin such as, for example, aminoglutethimide is used, the administration of the inhibitor is started on the first day of treatment and continued thereafter to block adrenal steroid synthesis. In another preferred aspect, the use of an LH RH agonist or antagonist in association with an antiandrogen and two inhibitors of sex steroid biosynthesis, e.g. an inhibitor of adrenal sex steroid biosynthesis such as aminoglutethimide and an inhibitor of testicular sex steroid biosynthesis such as ketoconazole, produced almost complete blockage of testicular steroid secretion while simultaneously blocking the precursor sex steroids androgens and estrogens of adrenal origin at an early stage of the treatment. While such complete blockage of androgen secretion and or action has not been achieved by prior art methods, such complete blockage can be achieved and maintained throughout the period of treatment in accordance with the present invention. These active compounds can be administered together or in any order as discussed hereinafter. To assist in determining the effect of the treatment, blood plasma concentrations of the adrenal and testical androgens and estrogens and parameters of cancer evolution are measured according to known methods. Lowered concentrations of sex steroids and reduction in prostate or metastatic tumor size are indicative of successful treatment, e.g. inhibition of prostatic cancer cell growth. The concentrations of adrenal steroids such as dehydroepiandrosterone DHEA , DHEA sulfate DHEAS , androst 5 ene 3β,17β diol Δ⁵ diol and, the estrogen, 17β estradiol E₂ are measured by standard methods well known to those skilled in the art, see for example F. Labrie et al., The Prostate, Prostatic size is measured by rectal examination and by transrectal ultrasonography. Objective assessment of the effect of the treatment is also measured by standard physical methods well known to those skilled in the art, e.g., bone scanning, X ray, skeletal survey, intravenous pyelography, CAT scan and physical examination. The response criteria for prostate cancer developed by the U.S.A. National Prostate Cancer Project The Prostate, The use of therapeutically effective amounts of the inhibitor of testicular sex steroid biosynthesis such as ketoconazole or aminoglutethimide in association with the antiandrogen and the LH RH agonist or LH RH antagonist in accordance with the present invention effectively surpresses the serum sex steroid levels, especially serum testosterone and dihydrotestosterone concentrations stimulated by treatment with LH RH agonist at the start of the treatment even in the presence of an antiandrogen. While a LH RH agonist or a LH RH antagonist may be used in one preferred aspect of the present invention, the use of a LH RH agonist is more preferred. The components used in the above described aspects of the invention are described in more detail By the term LH RH agonist is meant synthetic analogues of the natural luteinizing hormone releasing hormone LH RH , a decapeptide of the structure Typical suitable LH RH agonists include nonapeptides and decapeptides represented by the formula wherein X is D tryptophyl, D leucyl, D alanyl, iminobenzyl D histidyl, 3 2 naphthyl D alanyl, O tert butyl D seryl, D tyrosyl, D lysyl, D phenylalanyl or N methyl D alanyl and Y is L leucyl, D leucyl, N Preferred nonapeptides wherein Y is L leucyl and X is an optically active D form of selected amino acids and Z is NHC₂H₅ are D Trp⁶, des gly NH₂¹⁰ LH RH ethylamide X D Trp⁶ D Ser t BuO ⁶, des glyNH₂¹⁰ LH RH ethylamide X D Ser t BuO⁶ D Leu⁶, des gly NH₂¹⁰ LH RH ethylamide X D Leu⁶ , D His Bzl ⁶, des gly NH₂¹⁰ LH RH ethylamide X iminobenzyl D His⁶ and D Ala⁶, des gly NH₂¹⁰ LH RH ethylamide X D Ala⁶ . Preferred decapeptides include D Trp⁶ LH RH wherein X D Trp, Y L leucyl, Z glycyl NH₂, D Phe⁶ LH RH wherein X D phenylalanyl, Y L leucyl and Z glycyl HN₂ or D Nal 2 ⁶ LH RH which is 3 2 naphthyl D Ala⁶ LH RH wherein X 3 2 naphthyl D alanyl, Y L leucyl and Z glycyl NH₂. Other LH RH agonists useful within the scope of this invention are the α aza analogues of the natural LH RH, especially, D Phe⁶,Azgly¹⁰ LH RH, D Tyr Me ⁶, Azgly¹⁰ LH RH, and D Ser t BuO ⁶, Azgly¹⁰ LH RH disclosed by A.S. Dutta et al. in J. Med. Chem., Typical suitable LH RH antagonists include N Ac D p Cl Phe Other LH RH agonist and antagonist analogs are disclosed in The LH RH agonists and antagonists useful in this invention may conveniently be prepared by the method described by Stewart et al. in Solid Phase Peptide Synthesis published in 1969 by Freeman Co., San Francisco, page 1 but solution phase synthesis may also be used. The nona and decapeptides used in this invention are conveniently assembled on a solid resin support, such as 1 cross linked Pro Merrifield resin by use of an automatic peptide synthesizer. Typically, side chain protecting groups, well known to those in the peptide arts, are used during the dicyclohexylcarbodiimide cataylzed coupling of a tert butyloxycarbonylamino acid to the growing peptide attached to a benzhydrylamine resin. The tert butyloxycarbonyl protecting groups are removed at each stage with trifluoroacetic acid. The nona or decapeptide is cleaved from the resin and deprotected by use of HF. The crude peptide is purified by the usual techniques, e.g., gel filtration, HPLC and partition chromatography and optionally lyophilization. See also D. H. Coy et al., J. Med. Chem. Typical suitable antiandrogens include non steroidal antiandrogens such as the imidazolidines, especially 1 3 trifluoromethyl 4 nitrophenyl 4,4 dimethyl imidazoline 2,5 dione also called Anandron described in U.S. Patent No. 4,097,578, or 4 nitro 3 trifluoromethylisobutyranilide also called flutamide described in U.S. Patent 4,329,364 as well as the N phenylalkanoyl aniline derivatives disclosed in U.S. Patent 4,386,080 and the 3,4 disubstituted branched chain acylanilides disclosed in U.S. Patent 4,239,776 A.T. Glen et al . Flutamide is the preferred antiandrogen. Typical suitable steroidal antiandrogens include 6 chloro 1,2 dihydro 17 acetyloxy 3 H cyclopropa 1,2 pregna 1,4,6 triene 3,20 dione, available under the tradename of Androcur from Schering A.G., W. Berlin and 17α acetyloxy 6 methylpregna 4,6 diene 3,20 diene, also called megestrol acetate and available from Mead Johnson Co., Evansille, Ind. under the tradename of Megace. Typical suitable antiestrogens include those steroidal and non steroidal antiestrogens such as 1RS,2RS 4,4 diacetoxy 5,5 difluoro 1 ethyl 2 methylene di m phenylenediacetate, which is available from Biorex under the tradename of Acefluranol, 6α chloro 16α methylpregn 4 ene 3,20 dione which is available from Eli Lilly Co., Indianapolis, Ind. under the tradename of Clometherone, 6 chloro 17 hydroxypregna 1,4,6 triene 3,20 dione which is available as the acetate salt from Syntex Labs, Palo Alto, Cal. as Delmadione Acetate, 17 hydroxy 6 methyl 19 norpregna 4,6 diene 3,20 dione which is available from Theramex under the name of Lutenyl, 1 2 4 1 4 methoxyphenyl 2 nitro 2 phenylethenyl phenoxy ethyl pyrrolidine which is available as the citrate salt from Parke Davis Div. of Warner Lambert Co., Morris Plains, N.J. under the name of Nitromifene Citrate, substituted aminoalkoxyphenylalkenes such as Z 2 4 1,2 diphenyl 1 butenyl phenoxy N,N dimethylethanamine which is available as the citrate salt from Stuart Pharmaceuticals, Wilmington, Del. as Tamoxifen Citrate see also Belgian Patent 637,389, March 1964 , 3,4 dihydro 2 p methoxyphenyl 1 naphthyl p 2 1 pyrrolidinyl ethoxy phenyl ketone which is available as the methane sulfonate salt from Eli Lilly Co. under the tradename of Trioxifene Mesylate, 1 4 2 dimethylaminoethoxy phenyl 1 3 hydroxyphenyl 2 phenyl but 1 ene, which is available from Klinge Pharma, 6 hydroxy 2 p hydroxyphenyl benzo b thien 3 yl 2 1 pyrrolidinyl ethoxyphenyl ketone which is available from Eli Lilly Co. LY 117018 , 6 hydroxy 2 4 hydroxyphenyl benzo b thien 3 yl 4 2 1 piperdinyl ethoxy phenyl methanone, which is available from Eli Lilly Co. as the hydrogen chloride salt LY 156758 and meso 3,4 bis 3 hydroxyphenyl hexane as well as the dimethyl, dipropyl and 3 acetoxyphenyl analogues which are described in U.S. Patent 4,094,994 and a series of 1 phenyl alkane and alkenes, e.g. E 3 cyclopentyl 1 4 hydroxyphenyl 1 phenyl 1 butene and 2 cyclopentyl 1 4 hydroxy or methoxyphenyl 3 phenyl 2 propen 1 ol and FC 1157 which is available as the citrate salt from Farmos Group, Ltd., Turku, Finland see also Eur. Pat. Appln. EP 78,158 . It is preferred to use an antiestrogen which shows minimal partial estrogen agonism. FC 1157, LY 117018, LY 156578 and Tamoxifen are the preferred antiestrogens. The inhibitors of sex steroid biosynthesis found useful in the present invention include those compounds which inhibit biosynthesis of sex steroids and precursor sex steroids of adrenal origin, and or ovarian or testicular respectively preferably of ovarian or testicular respectively and adrenal origin. Typical suitable inhibitors of sex steroid biosynthesis include 3 4 aminophenyl 3 ethyl 2,6 piperidinedione which is commonly called aminoglutethimide, which is an inhibitor of sex steroid biosynthesis of adrenal but also ovarian and testicular origin and which is available from Ciba Pharmaceutical Co., Summit N.J. under tradename Cytadren, or ketoconazole an effective testicular but also adrenal sex steroid biosynthesis inhibitor which is available from Janssen Pharmaceutica, Piscataway, N.J. under the tradename Nizoral. When an inhibitor of adrenal sex steroid biosynthesis, e.g., aminoglutethimide is administered, cortisol biosynthesis is blocked. Accordingly a glucocorticoid, e.g. hydrocortisone is administered in physiological amounts sufficient to maintain normal glucocorticoid levels. In this invention, the LH RH agonist or antagonist and antiandrogen and, where applicable, the inhibitor of steroid biosynthesis, hydrocortisone and antiestrogen are administered as pharmaceutical compositions via topical, parenteral or oral means. The LH RH agonist or antagonist is administered parenterally, i.e., intramuscularly, subcutaneously or intravenously by injection or infusion by nasal drops or by suppository, where applicable intra vaginally. The LH RH agonist or antagonist also may be microencapsulated in or attached to a biocompatable, biodegradable polymer, e.g., poly d,l lactide co glycolide and subcutaneously or intramuscularly injected by a technique called subcutaneous or intramuscular depot to provide continuous, slow release of the LH RH agonist or antagonist over a period of 30 days or longer. The most preferred route of administration of the LH RH agonist or antagonist is subcutaneous depot injection. Preferably the antiandrogen will be administered orally. Preferably, the inhibitors of sex steroid biosynthesis such as aminoglutethimide and ketoconazole, and anti estrogen when used, are administered orally. The amount of each component administered is determined by the attending clinicians taking into consideration the etiology and severity of the disease, the patient s condition and age, the potency of each component and other factors. In the combination therapy of sex steroid dependent cancers according to this invention, the following dosage ranges are suitable. The LH RH agonist or antagonist is generally administered at from about 10 to 5000 µg per day, with contemplated dosage ranges of about 10 to 1500 µg per day and about 250 preferably 200 µg in the therapy of female breast cancer using the combination with sex hormone biosynthesis inhibitor to 500 µg per day for the LH RH agonist and to about 50 to 5000 µg per day for the LH RH antagonist being preferred. In the most preferred embodiment of this invention, the LH RH agonist or antagonist is administered subcutaneously in a daily dose of 500 µg for the first 30 days and thereafter subcutaneously in a daily dose of 250 µg regardless of the patients body weight. When the LH RH agonist or antagonist is administered, once every 30 day period or even longer, by intramuscular or subcutaneous depot injection, a dose from about 300 to 150,000 µg per 30 day period is used, with a dose of 750 to 15,000 µg per 30 day period being preferred. The antiandrogen compositions are generally administered in a dosage range of about 0.20 to 40 mg kg body weight per day with 750 mg per day in three equally divided doses being preferred. The aminoglutethimide compositions when used are administered initially in a dosage of 250 mg given at 8 hour intervals and the dosage may be increased in increments of 250 mg daily up to a total daily dose of 2 grams. The ketoconazole compositions when used are administered orally in a dose of 250 mg given at 8 hour intervals and may be increased to a daily dose of 2 grams. Other inhibitors of sex steroid biosynthesis are preferably administered in dosages being equivalent to the dosages given for aminoglutethimide and ketoconazole. The antiestrogen compositions when used are administered in a dosage range of about 0.1 to 10 mg kg body weight per day, with 10 mg, especially 20 mg, in two equally divided doses being preferred. The glucocorticoide, especially hydrocortisone compositions when used are administered orally in a dosage range of about 0.1 to 20 mg kg body weight per day. Preferably, the hydrocortisone is administered orally at the dose of about 10 mg in the morning and about 5 mg doses in the afternoon and in the evening. The LH RH agonist or antagonist and antiandrogen and inhibitor of sex steroid bisoynthesis and antiestrogen when used each may be administered separately or when the modes of administration are the same, all or at least two of them may be administered in the same composition, but in any case the preferred ratio of LH RH agonist to antiandrogen to antiestrogen when used to inhibitor of sex steroid biosynthesis when used administered daily will be about 250 µg of LH RH agonist to about 750 mg of antiandrogen to about 15 mg, especially 20 mg, of anti estrogen to about 750 mg of inhibitor of sex steroid biosynthesis. In the therapy of female breast cancer combining the administration of an LH RH agonist or antagonist and an antiandrogen the dosages preferable are as follows The LH RH agonist or antagonist is generally administered at from about 10 to 2000 µg per day, with contemplated dosage ranges of 10 to 500 µg per day, 50 250 µg per day and 250 to 500 µg per day being preferred. In the most preferred embodiment of this aspect of the invention, the LH RH agonist or antagonist is administered subcutaneously in a daily dose of 500 µg for the first 30 days and thereafter subcutaneously in a daily dose of 250 µg regardless of the patients body weight. When the LH RH agonist or antagonist is administered, once every 30 day period, by intramuscular or subcutaneous depot injection, a dose from about 300 to 60000 occasionally 15000 µg per 30 day period is used, with a dose of 750 to 6000 µg per 30 day period being preferred. The antiandrogen compositions are generally administered in a dosage range of about 0.20 to 20 preferably 40 mg kg body weight per day with 375 especially 750 mg per day in three equally divided doses being preferred. The antiestrogen compositions are administered in a dosage range of about 0.1 to 10 mg kg body weight per day, with 15 mg in three, preferably with 20 mg in two, equally divided doses being preferred. The aminoglutethimide compositions when used are administered initially in a dosage of 250 mg given at 6 hour, preferably 8 hour, intervals and the dosage may be increased in increments of 250 mg daily up to a total daily dose of 2 grams. The ketoconazole compositions when used are administered orally in a dose of 200 mg once per day and may be increased to 800 mg once per day. The LH RH agonist or antagonist and antiandrogen and antiestrogen each may be administered separately or when the modes of administration are the same, all or two of them may be administered in the same composition, but in any case the preferred ratio of LH RH agonist to antiandrogen to antiestrogen administered daily will be about 250 µg of LH RH agonist to about 375 especially 750 mg of antiandrogen to about 15, preferably 20, mg of antiestrogen. In the therapy of sex steroid dependent cancers, especially such as prostate and breast cancer, according to this invention, it is preferred that the LH RH agonist is D Trp⁶,des Gly NH₂¹⁰ LH RH ethylamide which is administered subcutaneously in single daily dose of 500 µg for the first thirty 30 days of treatment and thereafter in a single daily dose of 250 µg the antiandrogen is 4 nitro 3 trifluoromethyl isobutyranilide, i.e. flutamide, which is administered orally in three equally divided daily doses of 250 mg each and the inhibitor of sex steroid biosynthesis is ketoconazole and or aminoglutethimide, each of which is administered orally in three equally divided doses of 250 mg every 8 hours and the hydrocortisone if used is administered orally at a dose of about 10 mg in the morning and two equally divided doses of about 5 mg, 8 and 16 hours thereafter and the antiestrogen, when used, is Z 2 p 1,2 diphenyl 1 butenyl phenoxy N,N dimethyl ethylamine Tamoxifen which is administered orally in two equally divided doses of about 10 my every 12 hours. In the therapy of, for example, female breast cancer using the combination of the LH RH agonist, the antiandrogen and antiestrogen discussed here, it is also useful to administer the antiandrogen flutamide orally in three equally divided doses of 125, preferably 250 mg. In the combination therapy of sex steroid dependent cancers according to this invention the administration of the antiandrogen, antiestrogen, inhibitor s of steroid biosynthesis, glucocorticoid and LH RH agonist or LH RH antagonist can be started in any order of sequence. Preferably the administration of the antiandrogen and or the antiestrogen is started before preferably one day before the administration of the LH RH agonist or LH RH antagonist is started. Preferably the administration of the inhibitor s of sex steroid biosynthesis is started on the same day as the administration of the LH RH agonist or LH RH antagonist. However, the attending clinician may elect to start administration of the LH RH agonist or antagonist on the first day of treatment. When patients whose testes or ovaries respectively have already been surgically removed are treated according to this invention, the administration and dosage of the antiandrogen and the other components of the therapy except the LH RH agonist or antagonist are the same as indicated for the therapy in which the LH RH agonist or antagonist is used. Normally, an inhibitor of testicular sex steroid biosynthesis such as ketoconazole may be administered to chemically but not surgically castrated patients. Generally, the inhibitor of testicular sex steroid biosynthesis when used , e.g., ketoconazole will be administered until the serum levels of T and DHT stimulated by the administration of the LH RH agonist are effectively suppressed, normally for one to three weeks. The inhibitor of adrenal sex steroid biosynthesis, e.g., aminoglutethimide may be administered at the start of treatment in the presence or absence of the inhibitor of testicular sex steroid biosynthesis and thereafter continued throughout the period of treatment. The LH RH agonists or antagonists useful in the present invention are typically amorphous solids which are freely soluble in water or dilute acids, e.g., HCl, H₂SO₄, citric, acetic, mandelic or fumaric. The LH RH agonist or antagonist for subcutaneous injection is supplied in vials containing 5 mL of sterile solution with the LH RH agonist or antagonist at a concentration of about 1.0 mg mL. A typical pharmaceutical composition of the LH RH agonist or antagonist include the LH RH agonist or antagonist or a pharmaceutically acceptable acid salt thereof, benzyl alcohol, a phosphate buffer pH 6.9 7.2 and sterile water. The LH RH agonist or antagonist for intramuscular or subcutaneous depot injection may be microencapsulated in a biocompatible, biodegradable polymer, e.g., poly d,l lactide co glycolide by a phase separation process or formed into a pellet. The microspheres may then be suspended in a carrier to provide an injectable preparation or the depot may be injected in the form of a pellet. See also European Patent Application EPA 58,481 published August 25, 1982 for solid compositions for subdermal injection or implantation or liquid formulations for intramuscular or subcutaneous injections containing biocompatible, biodegradeable polymers such as lactide glycolide copolymer and an LH RH agonist, e.g., D Ser t BuO⁶, Azgly¹⁰ LH RH. The inhibitors of sex steroid biosynthesis, e.g., aminoglutethimide and ketoconazole and the glucocorticoid, e.g., hydrocortisone when used are typically compounded in customary ways for oral administration, e.g., in tablets, capsules and the like. The antiandrogens useful in the present invention are typically formulated with conventional pharmaceutical excipients, e.g., spray dried lactose and magnesium stearate into tablets or capsules for oral administration. The antiestrogens, when used with the invention, are typically compounded in customary ways for oral administration, e.g., in capsules, tablets, as dragees or even in liquid form, e.g., suspensions or syrups. One or more of the active substances, with or without additional types of active agents, can be worked into tablets or dragee cores by being mixed with solid, pulverulent carrier substances, such as sodium citrate, calcium carbonate or dicalcium phosphate, and binders such as polyvinyl pyrrolidone, gelatin or cellulose derivatives, possibly by adding also lubricants such as magnesium stearate, sodium lauryl sulfate, Carbowax or polyethylene glycols. Of course, taste improving substances can be added in the case of oral administration forms. The therapeutically active antiestrogen compound should be present in a concentration of about 0.5 90 by weight of the total mixture, i.e., in amounts that are sufficient for maintaining the abovementioned dosage range. As further forms of administration, one can use plug capsules, e.g., of hard gelatin, as well as closed soft gelatin capsules comprising a softener or plasticizer, e.g., glycerine. The plug capsules contain the active substance preferably in the form of granulate, e.g., in mixture with fillers, such as lactose, saccharose, mannitol, starches, such as potato starch or amylopectin, cellulose derivatives or highly dispersed silicic acids. In soft gelatin capsules, the active substance is preferably dissolved or suspended in suitable liquids, such as vegetable oils or liquid polyethylene glycols. In place of oral administration, the active compounds may be administered parenterally. In such case, one can use a solution of the active substance, e.g., in sesame oil or olive oil. Following the above treatment using the described regimen, tumor growth and bone metastases of sex steroid dependent cancers is inhibited and in some instances complete remission occurs. The invention also provides kits or single packages combining the pharmaceutical compositions useful for the combination treatment of sex steroid dependent cancers discussed above. The kits or packages may also contain instructions to use the pharmaceutical compositions in accordance with the present invention. This aspect of the invention is exemplified by the following discussions For the treatment of female breast cancer a two component kit provides the antiandrogen oral pharmaceutical composition and the LH RH agonist or LH RH antagonist parenteral composition or the antiandrogen oral pharmaceutical composition and the antiestrogen oral composition or the oral compositions of the antiandrogen or antiestrogen and the inhibitor of sex steroid biosynthesis a three component kit provides the LH RH agonist or antagonist parenteral pharmaceutical composition, the antiandrogen and the antiestrogen oral pharmaceutical composition, or the oral compositions of the antiandrogen, the antiestrogen and the inhibitor of sex steroid biosynthesis a four component kit provides the LH RH agonist or LH RH antagonist parenteral pharmaceutical composition, the antiandrogen oral pharmaceutical composition, the sex steroid biosynthesis inhibitor oral pharmaceutical composition and the hydrocortisone oral pharmaceutical composition and a five component kit provides the LH RH agonist or LH RH antagonist parenteral pharmaceutical composition, the antiandrogen oral pharmaceutical composition, the antiestrogen oral pharmaceutical composition, the sex steroid biosynthesis inhibitor oral composition and the hydrocortisone oral pharmaceutical composition. Further kits are provided in accordance with the combination therapy of this invention. For the treatment of prostate cancer, a three component kit provides the antiandrogen oral pharmaceutical composition, the LH RH agonist or LH RH antagonist parenteral composition and the sex steroid biosynthesis inhibitor oral pharmaceutical composition a four component kit provides the LH RH agonist or LH RH antagonist parenteral pharmaceutical composition, the antiandrogen oral pharmaceutical composition, the adrenal sex steroid biosynthesis inhibitor oral pharmaceutical composition and the hydrocortisone oral pharmaceutical composition and a five component kit provides the LH RH agonist or LH RH antagonist parenteral pharmaceutical composition, the antiandrogen oral pharmaceutical composition and the testicular sex steroid biosynthesis inhibitor oral pharmaceutical composition, the adrenal sex steroid biosynthesis inhibitor oral pharmaceutical composition and the hydrocortisone oral pharmaceutical composition. Further kits are provided in accordance with the combination therapy of this invention. For the treatment of other sex steroid dependent cancers analogous kits are provided according to this invention. The kits may also contain pharmaceutical compositions which contain more than one component of the combination treatment. The following examples illustrate the invention. Figures 1 to 3 show the result of the combination therapy of a male patient having breast cancer according to the invention. Figure 1 is a bone scintigraph showing multiple bone metastases in a male patient having breast cancer prior to treatment in accordance with an aspect of the present invention. Figure 2 is a bone scintigraph of the same male patient after treatment for six and a half months in accordance with an aspect of the present invention. Figure 3 graphically displays serum levels of testicular and adrenal steroids in the male patient treated in accordance with an aspect of the present invention. Twelve months after modified radical mastectomy with axillary dissection 4 out of 13 positive nodes in a 66 year old man, bone scintigraphy Fig. 1 showed multiple bone metastatic lesions in the third and fourth cervical vertebrae, in the first, third and twelth thoracic vertebrae, in the third, fourth and fifth lumbar vertebrae, in both sacro iliac areas, in both shoulders and in the anterior part of the second right rib. Chest X Ray and abdominal echogram did not show evidence of additional extension of the disease. The pituitary LH, FSH and prolactin as well as steroid pregnenolone, 17 OH pregnenolone, dehydroepiandrosterone DHEA , DHEA sulfate, androst 5 ene 3β,17β diol Δ⁵ diol , progesterone, 17 OH progesterone, androstenedione Δ⁴ dione , testosterone T , dihydrotestosterone DHT , androstane 3α,17β diol, androstane 3β,17β diol, androsterone and cortisol hormones were within normal limits. Hormone measurements and calculations were performed according to known methods. The serum concentration of carcinoembryonic antigen CEA as well as a series of laboratory analyses, including complete blood count, sequential multiple analyzer SMA 12 and urinalysis were normal. Combined antihormonal treatment with the LH RH agonist D Ser tBuO ⁶, des gly NH₂¹⁰ LH RH ethylamide 500 µg daily, s.c. in combination with the pure antiandrogen Flutamide 250 mg orally every 8h was started. Six and a half months later bone scintigraphy showed a complete disappearance of increased uptake in all the areas identified 6 1 2 months earlier with no appearance of new lesion Fig. 2 . X Ray, ultrasonography and clinical examination revealed no sign of any lesion. As illustrated in Fig. 3, the combined treatment caused 95 reduction compared to control in serum testosterone T and a 25 to 60 fall in the serum levels of adrenal steroids, namely DHEA, DHEAS, Δ⁴ dione and Δ⁵ diol while not affecting cortisol significantly. Serum levels of DHT and E₂ were also decreased by 20 to 40 . During hormonal therapy, no clinical sign of the disease could be detected. The only side effects were related to hypoandrogenicity. Thus, after four months of treatment, the patient developed mild climateric like vasomotor phenomena consisting of perspiration and hot flushes, which did not require treatment. He also complained of loss of libido and sexual potency after two months of treatment. The present data show a rapid and complete regression of bone metastases in a patient having wide spread bone metastases from breast cancer. A complete response could be seen within 6 1 2 months after starting the combined treatment with an LH RH agonist and a pure antiandrogen.