# PREPARATION OF SUBSTITUTED BENZALDEHYDES

## Claims
Verfahren zur Herstellung eines 3 Brombenzaldehyds, bei dem man ein Benzaldehyd mit einer freien 3 Stellung mit Bromchlorid in Gegenwart von Aluminiumchlorid und in Gegenwart von 0,3 bis 0,9 Mol Dibrommethan pro Mol Aluminiumchlorid umsetzt.

## Description
This invention relates to 3 bromobenzaldehydes and more particularly to a process for preparing them. As disclosed in U. S. Patent 4,036,887 FR A 2313339 Sheldon et al. , 3 bromobenzaldehyde is useful as an insecticide precursor and can be prepared by reacting benzaldehyde with bromine chloride in the presence of aluminum chloride and 140 500 ml of a chloroalkane, such as dichloromethane, 1,2 dichloroethane, or chloroform, per mol of benzaldehyde. This process has advantages over other known techniques of synthesizing 3 bromobenzaldehyde, but it also has disadvantages. Specifically, the process of Sheldon et al. leads to the formation of as much as 5 of 3 chloro derivatives, thus reducing the efficiency of the process and making product isolation more difficult. Also, the use of 1,2 dichloroethane, the preferred solvent of Sheldon et al., leads to the formation of 1,2 dibromoethane, a toxic material which is undesirable even in trace quantities and the formation of which complicates product isolation and aqueous waste disposal. This invention thus provides a novel process for preparing 3 bromobenzaldehydes which can be efficient and commercially attractive. The invention further permits a process which produces no 1,2 dibromoethane and only negligible amounts of 3 chloro derivatives. The invention is based upon the discovery of the desirability of reacting a benzaldehyde with bromine chloride in the presence of aluminum chloride and a small amount of dibromomethane, e.g. less than the amount of aluminium chloride used. Benzaldehydes useful in the practice of the invention are benzaldehydes having a free 3 position, the 2 , 4 , and or 5 positions optionally bearing inert substituents, such as fluoro, chloro, t butyl, phenyl, phenoxy, etc. The preferred benzaldehydes are benzaldehyde itself and 4 fluorobenzaldehyde. Except for the nature of the reaction medium and the amount employed, the process of the invention is very similar to the process of Sheldon et al. Thus, it is preferred to The use of dibromomethane in the specified amounts makes the process an efficient, commercially attractive method of preparing 3 bromobenzaldehydes in high yield and high purity without the formation of 1,2 dibromoethane or more than a negligible amount of 3 chloro derivatives. The achievement of these desirable results is particularly surprising since 1 Sheldon et al. indicate that the reaction medium for such a process should be a solvent for the reactants but 2 dibromomethane is not a medium in which the reactants are mutually soluble. The following example is given to illustrate the invention and is not intended as a limitation thereof. Charge 0.8 molar proportion of dibromomethane and 1.3 molar proportions of anhydrous aluminum chloride to a suitable reaction vessel. Add one molar proportion of benzaldehyde to the resultant slurry with agitation over a period of one hour at 40 50 C. After completing the addition of the benzaldehyde, add one molar proportion of bromine chloride over a period of 4 5 hours while continuing agitation and maintaining the pot temperature at 50 70 C. Continue agitation for an additional hour at 60 70 C. Transfer the reaction mass to a flask containing dilute hydrochloric acid, separate the organic, and recover the solvent by distillation. The process results in the formation of 3 bromobenzaldehyde which is isolated in an 85 yield 99 purity by vacuum distillation. It is obvious that many variations can be made in the products and processes set forth above without departing from the spirit and scope of this invention.