# Calcium fortified soy milk.

## Abstract
Soy milk is calcium fortified by adding to the soy milk a polyphosphate and a human consumptible calcium source. The polyphosphate acts as a chelating agent for the calcium source while promoting microbial stability of the milk. The polyphosphate enables the calcium to be added in amounts such that the resulting product has calcium levels equal to or greater than that found in cow s milk.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A process for improving the microbiological stability and calcium fortification of a soy milk, which process comprises combining the, soy milk, in either order or contemporaneously, with a an effective amount of an alkali metal polyphosphate salt, and b an effective amount of a human consumable calcium source. 2. A process for producing fortified soy milk, which process comprises combining a soy milk, in either order or contemporaneously, with a an effective amount of an alkali metal polyphosphate salt, and b an effective amount of a human consumable calcium source to raise the calcium level of the soy milk to a level at least equal to that of cow s milk. 3. A process according to Claim 1 or 2, wherein the alkali metal polyphosphate salt is present in an amount ranging from 0.5 one half gram to 1.0 one gram thereof per 100 one hundred ml of soy milk. 4. A process according to Claim 1, 2 or 3, wherein the calcium source is present in an amount ranging from 0.2 two tenths gram to 0.75 three quarters gram thereof per 100 one hundred ml of soy milk. 5. A process according to any preceding claim, wherein the alkali metal polyphosphate salt is selected from P3 to P22 straight chain and cyclic alkali metal polyphosphates and mixtures thereof. 6. A process according to Claim 5, wherein the alkali metal polyphosphate salt is selected from sodium tripolyphosphate, sodium hexametaphosphate, potassium tripolyphosphate, potassium hexametaphosphate and mixtures thereof, and is preferably sodium tripolyphosphate. 7. A process according to any preceding claim, wherein the pH of the soy milk is maintained in the range of 6.7 to 6.85 during the combination of the calcium source and the soy milk. 8. A process according to any preceding claim, wherein the calcium source is selected from calcium carbonate, calcium gluconate, calcium lactate, calcium phosphate, calcium citrate, calcium chloride and mixtures thereof, and is preferably calcium chloride. 9. A calcium fortified soy milk with increased microbiological stability, which comprises aqueous soy milk a salt of a P3 to P22 straight chain or cyclic polyphosphate in a concentration from 0.5 one half gram to 1.0 one gram per 100 ml of aqueous soy milk and a human consumable water soluble calcium salt selected from calcium chloride, calcium carbonate, calcium gluconate, calcium lactate, calcium phosphate, calcium citrate and mixtures thereof, the calcium salt being present in an amount ranging from 0,2 two tenths gram to 0.75 three quarters gram per 700 one hundred ml. of aqueous soy milk. 10. A calcium fortified soy milk with increased microbioloical stability as claimed in Claim 9, wherein the aqueous soy milk has a pH of from 6.7 to 6.85, and wherein the alkali metal polyphosphate salt is selected from sodium tripolyphosphate, sodium hexametaphosphate, potassium tripolyphosphate, potassium hexametaphosphate and mixtures thereof.

## Description
CALCIUM FORTIFIED SOY MILK BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION This Invention relates to a method for calcium fortification of soy milk producing calcium levels equal to or greater than the calcium level found in bovine milk while preventing curdling of the milk proteins. Soy milk is a water extract of soybeans which has been found to be nutritionally comparable to cbw s milk in most respects. Since soy milk does not contain lactose and has no cholesterol, it is an ideal substitute for cow s milk for lactose lntolerant individuals and those on restricted cholesterol Intake diets. Additionally, if problems pertaining to production and storage can be solved soy milk could provide an inexpensive and readily available protein source for individuals in deve loplng nations. Methods of extracting soy milk from the soybean are well known. Widespread acceptance of soy milk as a substltute for cow1 a milk has not been forthcoming because conventionally prepared soy milk is inferior to the conventional bovine milk in taste and in some nutritonal aspects. Conventionally prepared soy milk contains approximately 12 percent of the available calcium found in bovine milk. Individuals substituting soy milk for bovine milk must supplement their calcium intake from other sources. Furthermore, conventionally prepared pasteurized soy milk is highly susceptible to bacterial growth and has an extremely short shelf life, which limits its dietary usefulness. SubJective factors have also prevented public acceptance of soy milk.Traditionally prepared soy milk may have a distinct odor and taste which differs from conventional cow s milk. The odor and taste have made soy milk less desirable than traditional bovine milk. Attempts to fortify ioy milk with additional calcium have been unsuccesful. Previous attempt to provide a stable soy milk having elevated calcium levels have resulted in coagulation and precipitation of soy protein via a protein ionic calcium interaction. Various chemicals have been employed to chelate calcium ions and prevent soy protein precipitation.Among these chemicals are citrates such as calcium citrate, ethylene diamine tetraacetic acid EDTA and alkale phosphates, U.S. Patent Nos.1,210,667 and 1,265,227 teach beverages containing calcium carbonate or calcium chloride as the calcium ion source and sodium phosphate as the chelating agent. Weingartner, et al proposes calcium citrate as a cheating agent 48 J FoodSci. 256 263 1983 . Hirotsuka, et al proposes a process which employs sonication of lecithin in a solution containing EDTA to envelope the calcium ions present in solution 49 J.Food Scl. 1111 111 , 1127 1984 .these methods either do not yield a soy milk having calcium levels equal to or greater than bovine milk or require several complex steps impractical in general application.Several of the Chelating agents previously employed reduce the bloavailability of the calcium tons in solution in the milk, Thus, while total calcium ion con centration in the milk may be increased dramatically.over unfortified soy milk, a large portlon of the added calcium remains nutritionally unavailable. Further, current methods yield z soy milk which is readily suscep tible to bacterial growth unless sterilized. Thus, it is desirable to provide a method for fortifying soy milk with calcium so that the soy milk hal a calcium level equal to or greater than that found in bovine milk without coagulation of the soy protein and calcium. It is further desirable to employ agents to prevent coagulation which will provide minimal decrease in the biovailabilty of the calcium present in the soy milk. It is also desirable to employ agents which will provide a bacteriostatic effect thereby increasing, the resistance of the soy milk to bacterial growth. It is also desirable that these additives be either tasteless or aid in imparting a pleasant taste and odor to the soy milk. SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION In accordance with the present invention soybean milk is calcium fortified by adding to the soy milk a water soluble polyphosphate having from 3 to 22 phosphorous atoms and thereafter, adding to the soy milk a consumptible calcium source. The compounds are currently classified by the U.8. Food and DrugAdministration as Generaly Recognized as Safe GRAS . Generally, the polyphosphate is employed in an amount ranging from about 0,5 to about 1.0 grams thereof per 100 mls. of soy milk. The consumptible calcium source is employed in an amount ranging from about 0.2 grams to about 0.75 grams thereof per 100 mls. of soy milk. The soy milk, per se, can be prepared by any suitable conventional method. Likewise already available, comnerctsl soy milk can be used herein. For t more complete understanding of the present invention reference is made to the following detailed description and accompanying examples. DESCRIPTION OF THE PREFERRED EMBODIMENTS The present invent ion defines a method for pre paring calcium fortified soy milk using a combination of polyphosphates and calcium salts and the soy milk produot produced thereby. It has been found that polyphosphate salts cxhibit the ability to chelate calcium ions in soy milk as well as to provide calcium in a highly bioavaible form. Furthermore, the use of polyphos phates has yielded an unexpected bacteriostatic effect when employed in the soy milk beverage. Thus, using polyphosphate to aid in calcium fortification provides increased spoilage resistance, permits increased levels of calcium to be added to the soy milk without coagu latin the soy proteins, and permits the digestion and ready utilization of the calcium in the body upon consumptlon. The soy milk used herein can be prepared from any one of several methods known to those skilled in the art. Likewise, Commercially available soy milk can be subjected to the present invention. A typical method ior preparing soy milk, generally, Comprises washing soybeans b soaking the soybeans o rinsing the beans to dehull theme d chopping the beans and adding water thereto to form a slurry thereof e cooking the beans t cooling the beans and g extracting the milk. More partlcularly, raw soybeans are, first, rinsed in water with ample stirring to remove any dirt or debris which may be associated with the beans. Once the rinse water is removed, the cleaned soybeans are soaked in about three times their volume in water at about 4 C for a period of about 12 to 18 hours to loosen the hulls. After the soaking period, the water is, decanted and dlscarded and the beans are rinsed to remove the sof tened hulls. The dehulled beans, together with copious amounts of fresh water, are then, mixed and chopped to form a slurry. The amount of water required to form the slurry is determined to approximate the composition of cow s milk. Generally, an amount of water equal to about nine times the original weight of the beans prior to rinsing and soaking is used. The slurry can be formed by mixing the soybeans and water in a blender or similar device for approximately five minutes at low speed. The slurry is, then, cooked at approximately 5 to 15 psi for between one half to 2 minutes until a temperature between 2200F and 2600F is reached. The cooked slurry is, then, imme iately cooled and transferred to a press where it ts pressed and sieved to extract the milk and to separate the solids. This yields a soy milk suitabje for further calcium fortification and treatment according to the present Invention. However, as noted, any other mode for obtaining the soy milk can be used herein. The calcium fortification is, generally, carried out at ambient temperatures while maintaining the pH of the soy milk between about 6.7 and about 6.85. The calcium fortification of the soy milk is a two step process of a adding the polyphosphate and b adding the calcium source thereto. The polyphosphates have unexpectedly been found to be superb agents for chelation of calcium ions in soy milk and, concorrrnitantly, act to retard bacterial growth,The polyphosphates used herein are either straight chain or cyclic comçounds having a chain length from about 3 to about 22 phosphates and which have good dissociation characteristics in water. For these reasons, alkali metal polyphosphates are preferred. Representative alkali metal polyphosphates useful herein include sodium tripolyphosphate, sodium hexxamethophosphate, potassium tripolyphosphate, potassium hexametapolyphosphate and the like, as well as mixtures thereof.Usually, an amount ranging from about 0.5 to about 1.0 gram of polyphosphate salt per 100 mlg. of milk is added. The polyphosphate is added to the soy milk by the direct addition thereof, such as by mixing, stirring, etc. After the polyphosphate addition, or concurrently with it, the calcium source is added to the soy milk. Any water soluble calcium salt suitable for human consumption may be used herein. The source of calcium is preferably taken from the group which includes calcium chloride, calcium carbonate, calcium gluconate, calcium lactate, calcium phosphate, calcium citrate and mixtures thereof. In the preferred embodiment calcium chloride is used. The calcium source is used in an amount ranging from about 0.2 grams to about 0.75 grams per 100 mls. of soy milk. Calcium addition is, also, achieved directly by adding the calcium source to the soy milk with mixing, stirring, etc. The fortified soy milk may be homogenized using a single stroke homogenizer or other appropriate method and may be pasteurized or sterilized according to conven tonal methods. Addition of polyphosphate and calcium salts according to the present invention permits production of a stable pasteurized soy milk product containing up to about 1.7 mg. calcium per ml. of soy milk having a retrl gerated shelf life of approximately three weeks.Alternately, a sterilized calcium fortified soy milk with an extended shelf life at room temperature may be provided. The calcium levels are approximately 50 to 70 percent greater than is found in cow s milk. A product fortified at this level would permit one to meet the recommended dietary allowances RDA for calcium by eon suming approximately one pint of fortified soy milk per day. Additional flavoring agents and sweetener can be added to the soy milk to provide a suitable tasting beverage. Usually, any amount up to about 7 grams of conventional sweeteners per 100 mis. of soy milk may be added. The sweetener can be either a mono saccharlde or di zaccharide such as glucose, fructose or sucrose, or it may be one of the commercially available artificial sweeteners such as saccharin or aspartume. Various optional flavorings can be added as desired. Such fla vorings include vanilla, chocolate, strawberry or other compatible food additives. It should, also, be noted with respect hereto that milk product derivatives such as ice cream, yogurt, etc, can be prepared from the fortified soy milk thereof. For a more complete understanding of the present invention reference is made to the following examples. The examples are to be construed as illustrative and not limitative of the present invention. STANDARD ANALYTICAL METHOD FOR DETERMINING CALCIUM ION CONCENTRATION A Perkin elmer Model 305 atomic absorption speetrophotometer is used. Calibration of the spectrophotometer is accomplished using a calcium car bonate standard solution containing 1o0 ppmMeasured amounts of the working solutlon are diluted with a 0.5 percent LaCl3 solution to 10 ml. The absorbance of the standards at 422.7 nm is recorded. The K value i.e., slope of the standard curve of each standard is determined and plotted by dividing the known calcium concentration by the absorbance. To determine calcium concentration of a sample, a measured portion of the sample usually between 0.01 and 2 ml. is pipetted into a 10 ml. volumetric flask containing 1.0 ml. of a 5.0 percent LaCl3 solution. The sample is then diluted to the 10 ml, mark. The diluted sample of the solution is then aspirated into the air scetylene flame of the spectrophotometer and the absorbance at 422.7 nm recorded. The calcium concentration of the dilute solution can then be determined by applying the regression coefficient from the standard curve to the sample bsorbance. Multiplication of this concentration value by the dilu tion faactor will give total calcium in g ml. EXAMPLE I One thousand three hundred and fifty mls. of untreated soy milk was divided into three aliquots two 600 ml. aliquots and one 150 ml. aliquot. Sucrose was then added to the two 600 ml. aliquots to ylelda sucrose concentration in the soy milk equal to 70 g. sucroselL. One of the two 600 ml. sweetened aliquots was then divided into two 300 ml. portions. Portion A which was to serve as a control in the procedure was then pasteurized according to known conventionally employed procedures. Portion B which also served as a aontrol was homogenized and then pasteurized by conventional methods. The unsweetened 150 ml. aliquot labeled PortionC was similarly pasteurized. The second 600 ml. sweetened aliquot was calcium fortified according to this invention. To the 600 ml.aliquot was added 4.5 gms. of sodium tripolyphosphate and 2.498 g. calcium chloride, with continuous stirring to ensure proper mixing. The second aliquot was then divided into two 300 ml. portions which were labeledPortion D and Portion B. Portion D was pasteurized by the same method employed in treating Portion A. PortionE was homogenized and then pasteurized by the method emplloyed with Portion B. The calcium contents of the three soy milkPortions B, D and E were analyzed according to the standard calcium concentration method. A calibration curve was prepared using a 100 ppm. standard solution diluted to various parts per million levels in z 0.5 percentLaCl3 solution. The concentration absorbance and K values are listed in Table l. The dilution factors absorbances and concentrations of soy milk Portions B,D and E are listed in Table 11. Each sample was run in multiples and the average absorbance of the runs was used to calculate the calcium concentration. TABLE I CALCULATION OF CALCIUM CALIBRATION STANDARDCalcium concentration C C ppm Absorbance ABS K Value ABS 1 0.035 28,57 2 0.073 27.40 3 0.107 28.04 4 0.146 27.40 5 0.l84 27.17 6 0.219 27.40 K 27.66 TABLE II CALCIUM CONCENTRATION OF SOY MILK SAMPLES Calcium Average Dilution ConcentrationSample Absorbance Absorbange C Value Factor g ml Portion B 0.097 Sweetened 0.095 untareated 0.095 0.957 2.65 1 50 132.32Posrtion D 0.073 Sweetened 0.085 tarented 0.089 0.093 0.100 0.088 2.43 1 500 1217.15Portion A 0.064 Unsweetened 0.061Untred 0.066 0.637 1.76 1 100 176.12 EXAMPLE II A procedure similar to that of Example 1 was performed on the following 450 ml. samples I.Soy milk with a sucrose concentration of 70 grams per liter. II. Soy milk with a sucrose concentration of 70 grams per liter to which 3.375 grams of sodium tripolyphosphate and 1.872 grams of CaC12 have been added. III. Soy milk with a sucrose concentration of 70 grams per liter to which 2.25 grams of sodium tripolyphosphate and 0.846 grams of CaCO3 and 0.936 gramsCaCl2 have been added and IV. Soy milk with z sucrose concentration of 70 grams per liter to which 3.375 grams of sodium tripo lyphosphate and 1.692 grams of CaCO3 have been added. All samples were then homogenized and pasteurized. The results are set forth in Table III. TABLE III CALCIUM CONCENTRATION OF SOY MILK SAMPLES Average K value 25.81 Dilution Calcium Average Factor ConcentrateSample Absorbance Absorbance C Value ml. mg ml I 0.112 0.110 0.112 0.110 0.112 0.1112 2.87 1 50 0.14 II 0.128 0.124 0.124 0.125 0.126 0.125 3.23 1 500 1.61 III 0.055 0.056 0.057 0.056 0.052 0.0552 1.42 1 500 0.71 IV 0.018 0.017 0.016 0.017 0.017 0.017 0.44 1 500 0.22 EXAMPLE III Aliqupts of sweetened, untreated soy milk Portion B and sweetened, ealcium tripolyphosphate treated soy milk Portion D prepared in Example I were stored in a refrigerator for eight 8 weeks and periodi cally sampled for total aerobic microbial counts. Growth was evaluatedon plate count agar after forty eight 48 hours of incubation at 37 C and is expressed as oolony forming units, of representative samples each performed in multiple as set forth in Table IV. TABLE IV BACTERIAL GROWTH IN SOY MILK Type of TreatementLength of D Calcium TripolyphosphateRefrigeration B Conventional Treated day Colony Forming Units ml Colony Forming Units ml 10 0 0 12 2 0 14 3 x 10ê 0 56 6 x 10ê 0 EXAMPLE IV When the procedure outlined in Example I is repeated, and 4.5 gms of sodium hexametaphosphate and 2.5 gms ot calcium carbonate are added to a 600 ml. allquot of sweetened soy milk, results ilmilar to those outlined in Tables I through IV are observed. EXAMPLE V When the procedure outlined in Example IV is repeated using potassium tripolyphosphate and calcium citrate, results similar to those outlined in Tables i through IV are observed.