# A PROCESS FOR THE PREPARATION OF QUINOLINE CARBOXYLIC ACID DERIVATIVES

## Claims
Verfahren zur Herstellung einer Verbindung der Formel IV ,

## Description
This invention relates to a process for the preparation of useful antimicrobial agents, 6,8 difluoro 1 2 fluoroethyl 1,4 dihydro 4 oxo 7 1 piperazinyl or 4 methyl 1 piperazinyl 3 quinoline carboxylic acid having the chemical structure IV , wherein R₁ is a hydrogen atom or a methyl group, and more particularly, it relates to a process for the industrial manufacturing of antimicrobial agents represented by the formula IV having a high purity. Such antimicrobial agents are disclosed in BE A 887,574. The preparation method disclosed therein comprises the following steps Said preparation method has several drawbacks, such as, among others, a relatively low yield less than 20 based on the weight of the ethyl 6,7,8 trifluoro 1,4 dihydro 4 oxo 3 quinoline carboxylate starting material . Example 15 of BE A 887,574 teaches a method for preparing the hydrochloride salt of 6,8 difluoro 1,4 dihydro 4 oxo 7 1 piperazinyl 1 vinyl 3 quinoline carboxylic acid, wherein the ethyl ester of 6,7,8 trifluoro 1,4 dihydro 4 oxo 3 quinoline carboxylic acid is reacted with 2 bromo ethanol to obtain the ethyl ester of 6,7,8 trifluoro 1,4 dihydro 1 2 hydroxyethyl 4 oxo 3 quinoline carboxylic acid, which is then reacted with piperazine to obtain the ethyl ester of 6,8 difluoro 1,4 dihydro 1 2 hydroxyethyl 4 oxo 7 1 piperazinyl 3 quinoline carboxylic acid. This compound is then converted into the ethyl ester of 7 4 acetyl 1 piperazinyl 6,8 difluoro 1,4 dihydro 1 2 hydroxyethyl 4 oxo 3 quinoline carboxylic acid, which in its turn is converted into the ethyl ester of 7 4 acetyl 1 piperazinyl 1 2 chloroethyl 6,8 difluoro 1,4 dihydro 4 oxo 3 quinoline carboxylic acid. Finally, this compound is subjected to a hydrolyzing treatment which removes the piperazine nitrogen protecting acetyl group, removes the carboxyl protecting ester group, and converts the 2 chloroethyl group into a vinyl group. In this process, all intermediates are ethyl esters and the free carboxylic group is only obtained in the last step. This example therefore shows that, at least with a compound having a 2 hydroxyethyl substituent at the quinoline nitrogen, reaction with piperazine may be performed before removal of the ester group. The present invention provides a process for the preparation of a compound of the formula IV , wherein R₁ is a hydrogen atom or a methyl group, which comprises saponifying a compound of the formula III , wherein R₁ is a hydrogen atom or a methyl group, which is prepared by the reaction of a compound of the formula II , wherein R₁ has the above stated meaning, with a compound of the formula I , which is prepared by the reaction of a compound of the formula V , with 2 fluoroethyl tosylate. The preparation method claimed herein comprises the following steps Surprisingly, by reacting the piperazine compound with an ethyl ester of 6,7,8 trifluoro 1 2 fluoroethyl 1,4 dihydro 4 oxo 3 quinoline carboxylic acid and hydrolyzing the reaction product to obtain the end product, the product yield is improved significantly above 60 while, simultaneously, shorter reaction times, lower reaction temperatures and smaller amounts of piperazine compound may be applied. To put it concretely, a mixture of the starting material I 1 mol and piperazine derivative II 1 to 4 mol is heated in a range from room temperature to 150 C, preferably 40 to 120 C, in the presence or absence of a solvent and or base as an acceptor for the hydracid which is formed by the condensation. A base such as, for example, pyridine, picoline, triethylamine or the like, may be used in the reaction. These organic bases may serve as the reaction solvent. Benzene, toluene, dimethyl solfoxide, dimethylformamide, acetonitrile, tert butanol or the like may be used as the reaction solvent. Alkyl 6,8 difluoro 1 2 fluoroethyl 1,4 dihydro 7 4 methyl 1 piperazinyl 4 oxo 3 quinolinecarboxylate III R₁ CH₃ can also be prepared by treating alkyl 6,8 difluoro 1 2 fluoroethyl 1,4 dihydro 4 oxo 7 1 piperazinyl 3 quinolinecarboxylate III R₁ H with formaldehyde and a reducing agent such as formic acid. Therefore, the present invention also provides a process for the preparation of a compound of the formula IV a , which comprises saponifying a compound of the formula III b , wherein R is a lower alkyl group having 1 to 3 carbon atoms, which is prepared by the reaction of a compound of the formula III a , wherein R has the above stated meanings, with formaldehyde and formic acid. In the hydrolysis reaction using an acid, it is desirable that the intermediate substance III is heated in a mixture of mineral acid such as hydrochloric acid, sulfuric acid, and an organic solvent such as acetic acid. In the hydrolysis reaction using an alkali, the intermediate substance III is heated in a diluted alkali metal hydroxide such as sodium hydroxide, potassium hydroxide in a range from 40 to 100 The following examples serve to illustrate and explain the present invention. To a mixture of ethyl 6,7,8 trifluoro 1,4 dihydro 4 oxo 3 quinolinecarboxylate 5.36 kg and sodium iodide 2.94 kg in dimethylformamide 20.5 liters , was added anhydrous potassium carbonate 2.97 kg at 100 After the addition was completed, the mixture was stirred at 95 to 100 After cooling, the mixture was added to ice water 64 liters . The resultant precipitate was filtered, washed with water and suspended in methanol 32 liters under stirring for 30 min. The crystals were collected by filtration and dried to give 5.02 kg 80.0 of the objective compound, mp 188 190 To a hot solution 50 Chloroform was added to the reaction mixture until it became homogeneous and then ice water 3.5 liters containing potassium carbonate 130 g was added. The mixture was agitated and the organic layer was separated. A water layer was extracted twice with chloroform. The combined chloroform layer was washed with water saturated with sodium chloride, dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate and concentrated under a reduced pressure until the crystals began to separate. Hot acetone 2 liters was added to the mixture. The deposited crystals were collected by filtration to give the desired compound 242 g , mp 193 195 The ester Example 2 was saponified the same way as described in a of Example 4. The reaction mixture was brought to pH 7 to 8 by adding acetic acid to deposit the objective compound as the monohydrate, mp 263