# PIEZORESISTIVE STRAIN SENSING DEVICE

## Claims
Piezoresistive Belastungsfühleranordnung mit einem Halbleitereinkristallsubstrat 21 , das eine solche Kristallebene hat, daß wenigstens einer der Kristallebenenindices

## Description
The present invention relates to a piezoresistive strain sensing device in which diffused resistors are formed in a semiconductor single crystal substrate. More particularly, it relates to a piezoresistive strain sensing device which is well suited to sensitively and precisely detect a stress field acting on an IC chip within a semiconductor package. As a device wherein a mechanical stress resulting from the application of a strain is converted into an electric signal by utilizing the piezoresistance effect of a semiconductor, there has heretofore been, for example, a semiconductor strain sensor as disclosed in the official gazette of Japanese Patent Application Laid open No. 56 140229. In this device, a bridge circuit is formed by diffused resistors on a diaphragm of silicon, and a strain is measured by detecting the fractional change in resistivity based on the deformation of the diaphragm attendant upon a surface strain. There has also been made the trial in which a diffused resistor is formed on a silicon substrate, and the substrate is buried in a resin as sensing means, thereby to detect a two dimensional stress field acting within a surface formed with the diffused resistor. In either case, however, the detection on a specified stress component is aimed at, and the use has been limited. A three dimensional stress field exists in a general structure, and mechanical strain electricity transducers including the prior art semiconductor strain sensor have had the problem that the three dimensional stress field cannot be separately detected. US A 3 277 698 describes a piezoresistive strain sensing device comprising a semiconductor single crystal substrate and a diffused resistance gauge constructed of a p type diffused resistor and a n type diffused resistor which are formed in said substrate, wherein the major axes of the crystal plane of the device are 111 and 100 , which implies that at least one of the indices of the plane is zero, and wherein two p type resistors and two n type resistors may be diffused in the single crystal substrate parallel to each other, constructing the resistance gauge. WO A 8103086 discloses, in connection with a silicon pressure sensor comprising only one diffused resistor, that variations in the orientation of the crystal plane and in the directions of the resistor of the values claimed are possible and that said resistor may be rectangular and have electrode terminals provided on the four rectangle sides. An object of the present invention is to provide a piezoresistive strain sensing device which sensitively and precisely detects a stress field acting in an observation surface. Said object is achieved according to the present invention by a piezoresistive strain sensing device comprising a semiconductor single crystal substrate which has such a crystal plane that at least one of crystal plane indices Said object is also achieved, according to the present invention, by a piezoresistive strain sensing device comprising a semiconductor single crystal substrate and p type diffused resistors and n type diffused resistors which are formed in said substrate, a diffused resistance gauge being constructed of respective resistor gauges of said p type diffused resistors and said n type diffused resistors, characterized in that the crystal plane indices of said semiconductor single crystal substrate are 111 , that three p type diffused resistors are arranged at angular intervals of 45 , whilst three n type diffused resistors are arranged at angular intervals of 45 , and that a common electrode terminal is held in communication with ends of said three p type diffused resistors on one side and independent electrode terminals are held in communication with ends thereof on the other side, whilst a common electrode terminal is held in communication with ends of said three n type diffused resistors on one side and independent electrode terminals are held in communication with ends thereof on the other side. In general, the piezoresistance effect in a semiconductor such as silicon is expressed as using a resistivity ρ and a stress tensor X each of which is denoted by a tensor of the second order, and a tensor π of the fourth order. Since, in general, the tensor of the second order such as ρ or X is given by a six component vector notation, the tensor π of the fourth order is expressed as a 6 x 6 element tensor. To the end of studying a three dimensional stress field, when the directions of three right angled axes are respectively set as x , y and z directions and xx, yy, zz, yz, zx and xy are respectively rewritten as 1 6, Eq. 1 can be expressed as Here, πµλ is called the components of the piezoresistance tensor and consists, in general, of 21 components. The number of the independent components decreases in a crystal of good symmetry, and it becomes 3 in a crystal having the cubic symmetry such as silicon or germanium. When a diffused resistor is formed on any desired single crystal substrate and the fractional change of the resistivity thereof is detected, there are, in general, 6 stress components contributive to the fractional change of the resistivity. Since, however, the fractional change of the resistivity is detected in a two dimensional plane formed with the diffused resistor, only 3 resistance components can be independently measured on the plane. Accordingly, when one diffused resistor is used, it is impossible in principle to separately detect the stress components. Therefore, a diffused strain gauge for detection needs to be constructed of a plurality of independent diffused resistors. In order to detect six independent resistance components on the same plane, at least two sorts of diffused resistors must be formed. The piezoresistance coefficients which are sensitivities to a stress differ greatly, depending upon the kinds of dopants. Accordingly, diffused resistors of the p type and n type are formed on a semiconductor substrate having a crystal plane, all of the crystal plane indices h, k, ℓ of which have values different from zero, and three independent resistance components are detected in each of the regions, whereby six independent resistance components on the same plane become detectible. Thus, the three dimensional stress field acting in the observation plane can be uniquely determined. Next, when the 100 plane is assumed the xy plane and a conventional crystal axis 001 is brought into agreement with the x axis, the piezoresistance effect which is observed within the plane is expressed as where σ Accordingly, stress components which affect the fractional changes of resistivity are four components, and the resistivity changes which are independently detectible are of three components, so that the stress field acting in the crystal plane cannot be uniquely determined. Since, however, the piezoresistance coefficients π Now, one embodiment of a piezoresistive strain sensing device according to the present invention will be described with reference to Figs. 1 and 2. In this embodiment, a strain sensor is constructed by making a p type diffused resistor 3 and an n type diffused resistor 2 on an n type silicon 100 substrate 1 by the use of the CMOS process. Fig. 1 shows a plan view, while Fig. 2 shows a sectional view taken along line II II in Fig. 1 and illustrates the formed states of the diffused resistors. The p type diffused resistor 3 and the n type diffused resistor 2, which is buried in a p type diffused resistor layer 7, are respectively made in the shape of rectangles in proximity to each other, and electrode terminals 4 are provided on the four sides of each rectangle. The electrode terminals 4 are isolated by an SiO₂ film 5, and the whole surface is covered with a passivation film 6. Regarding the directions of the sides of the rectangles, the direction along the line II II is set to be the x direction, and the direction orthogonal thereto in the same plane is set to be the y direction. A method of measuring the changes of a resistivity in each diffused resistor will be described. Current is caused to flow across the two electrodes opposing in the x direction, and the potential difference across both the electrodes is measured, whereby δρ According to the present embodiment, four independent resistivity changes can be measured within the 100 crystal plane of silicon, and this brings forth the effect that stresses σ Next, a second embodiment of the piezoresistive strain sensing device of the present invention will be described with reference to Fig. 3. This figure shows a plan view of a thin film stress strain sensor to which the present invention is applied. A single crystal thin film of silicon having the 100 plane is formed on a film substrate of, for example, PIQ 8, and p type diffused resistors 3 and n type diffused resistors 2 are formed as shown in the figure. The ends of these diffused resistors 2 and 3 on one side are connected by a common pattern 12, and are held in communication with a common electrode terminal 13. The single crystal thin film is produced by a thin film manufacturing process such as vacuum evaporation, CVD Chemical Vapored Deposition , sputtering evaporation or epitaxial growth. Here, when the p type diffused resistors 3 are arranged along the conventional crystal axis 011 and the n type diffused resistors 2 along 001 , the resistivity changes of the respective resistors are expressed as In Eq. 4 , π Next, a third embodiment of the piezoresistive strain sensing device of the present invention will be described with reference to Fig. 4. This figure is a sectional view in the case where a semiconductor pressure sensor is constructed. In the surface layer of an n type silicon 100 single crystal substrate 1 in the shape of a disc, a p type diffused resistor 3 and an n type diffused resistor 2 are formed to construct a gauge. The single crystal substrate 1 is bonded to a glass substratum 10 by a low melting glass 9. Further, an n type diffused resistor 11 is formed in a p type diffused layer 7, to construct a p n junction, whereupon the temperature of the gauge is detected. Thus, a temperature compensation circuit is formed, and measurements in a wide temperature range become possible. Moreover, since the silicon substrate may be in the shape of the disc, a high degree of etching technique as in the case of making a diaphragm is dispensed with, to bring forth the effect that the available percentage in production is enhanced. According to the embodiments thus far described, since four resistivity changes within the 100 crystal plane of a semiconductor can be measured, it is possible to realize a piezoresistive strain sensing device which can uniquely determine the four stress components acting on the 100 crystal plane stress components in the directions of right angled three axes, two of them being contained in the plane, and a shear stress acting within the plane. Next, a fourth embodiment of the piezoresistive strain sensing device of the present invention will be described with reference to Figs. 5 and 6. This embodiment is a stress sensor which is fabricated using an n type silicon 111 single crystal disc 21 as a substrate Fig. 5 is a plan view, while Fig. 6 is a schematic sectional view taken along line VI VI in Fig. 5. Six diffused resistors 22 and 23 formed on the substrate 21 consist of three p type diffused layers 22 and three n type diffused layers 23, and the ends of the respective layers 22 or 23 on one side are connected by a single aluminium pattern 24 or 32. It is assumed that the individual diffused resistors 22 or 23 be formed at angular intervals of 45 . It is also assumed that the direction of the line VI VI agree with the direction of the 112 crystal axis. The ends of the three p type diffused resistors 22 on one side are connected to a common electrode terminal 29 through the single common A1 pattern 24, whereas the ends thereof on the other side are connected to separate electrode terminals 31 through separate A1 patterns 30. Likewise, the ends of the three n type diffused resistors 23 on one side are connected to a common electrode terminal 33 through the single common A1 pattern 32, whereas the ends thereof on the other side are connected to separate electrode terminals 35 through separate A1 patterns 34. The n type diffused resistors 23 are formed in a p type diffused layer 25. In addition, the A1 patterns 24 etc. are isolated by an SiO₂ insulator film 26, and the whole surface is covered with a passivation film 27. The p type diffused layer 25 is formed with an n type diffused resistor 28, to simultaneously make a p n junction for temperature compensation. Now, the operation of this sensor will be described. Right angled 3 axes are given with the x direction being the direction of the line VI VI , the y direction being a direction orthogonal thereto within the plane and the z direction being a direction perpendicular to the plane, and stresses in the axial directions and shear stresses within respective planes are respectively denoted by σ and τ. In Fig. 5, a resistivity on the line VI VI is denoted by ρ₂, that on the left side thereof is denoted by ρ₁, and that on the right side thereof is denoted by ρ₃. Then, the corresponding resistivity changes are expressed as As the diffused resistors of the p type diffused layers 22 and those of the n type diffused layers 23, the values of the piezoresistance coefficients π The embodiment thus far described brings forth the effect that a sensor for detecting a three dimensional stress field can be realized, and the effect that measurements at temperatures in a wide range are permitted by utilizing a p n junction for temperature compensation. In the foregoing embodiment, the individual diffused resistors 22 or 23 are formed at the angular intervals of 45 . This takes it into consideration that, on the 111 crystal plane, the lengthwise directions of the resistor layers are brought into agreement with the 112 crystal axis and the 110 crystal axis, while one resistor layer is arranged in the direction of 45 between them. In principle, however, the directions of the arrangement of the resistor layers may be as desired except a case where two or more resistors become parallel among the same kind of diffused resistor layers . Although the three diffused resistors are arranged in each kind of diffused layers, the number of the arrangement in each kind of diffused layers may well be four or more. Since the number of stress components acting independently is six, the stress components are uniquely determined when there are at least three diffused resistors in each kind of layers, namely, at least six resistors in total. In the case of forming at least four diffused resistors in the same kind of diffused layers, at least three of them may extend in crystal orientations differing from one another. In an actual measurement, changes in the resistivities of the diffused resistors are respectively detected. In each of the foregoing embodiments, the semiconductor single crystal substrate may well be replaced with a single crystal thin film produced by a thin film manufacturing process such as vacuum evaporation, CVD, sputtering or epitaxial growth. According to each embodiment described above, six sorts of independent resistivity changes caused by the piezoresistance effect can be detected on an identical semiconductor single crystal substrate and hence, a stress sensor for determining a three dimensional stress field can be realized.