# Quinolonecarboxylic acid derivatives.

## Abstract
Quinolonecarboxylic acid derivative of the following formula

## Claims
What is claimed is 1. A compound of the formula I EMI40.1 the hydrates or the pharmaceutically acceptable acid addition or alkali salts thereof. 2. A process for the preparation of a compound of the formula r , EMI40.2 which comprises condensing a compound of the formula it EMI40.3 wherein R is a hydrogen atom or a lower alkyl group, X is a halogen atom , with a compound of the formula III EMI40.4 wherein R1 and R2 are each independently a hydrogen atom or a protecting group of an amino group, or are a protecting group of an amino group which work together however in which, when both or either of RÚ and Rê are a protecting group of an amino group, the condensed product is followed by removal of the protecting group to an amino derivative and when R is a lower alkyl group, the condensed product is followed by saponification to the carboxylic acid derivative. 3, An antibacterial pharmaceutical composition containing the compound according to claim 1 and an inert pharmaceutical acceptable carrier.

## Description
Title of the invention Ouinolonecarboxylic acid derivative and process for its preparationDetailed description of the invention The present invention relates to a novel quinolonecarboxylic acid derivative of the following formula I ,EMI1.1 its hydrates and salts, preparation process therefor and uses thereof as an antibacterial agent. The compound represented by the formula I , contains optical isomers, owing to an asymmetric carbon on the aminopyrrolidine ring, the 7 substituent. But all of optical isomers and their mixture are represented, for convenience, by the unitary formula.Hence, the scope of the invention is not limited to one of the optical isomers or their mixture. Quinolonecarboxylic acid antibacterial agent began with nalidixic acid and have been developed to piromidic acid, furthermore, to pipemidic acid. They are useful agents for the medical treatment against urinary tract infections with aerobic gram negative bacteria. Norfloxacin, which has been developed by us recently, exhibits potent antibacterial activity not only against gram negative bacteria but also against gram positive bacteria. Moreover, its potency is extremely stronger than the previous quinolonecarboxylic acids. Norfloxacin became an epoch making progress in this field, it has been used clinically very often at the present time. The later quinolonecarboxyle acids, such as, ofloxacin, ciprofloxacin and CI 934, which have substituents similar to norfloxacin, have been continuously developed. CI 934 possesses more potent activity against gram positive bacteria. Ciprofloxacin possesses stronger antibacterial activity than that of norfloxacin, But the antibacterial potency against grampositive bacteria is fairly inferior to that against gram negative bacteria. The antibacterial activity of CI 934 against gram positive bacteria is slightly stronger, but that against gram negative bacteria is lower. On the other hand, the increase of B lactam antibioticsresistant gram positive bacteria such as methicillin and cephalosporin resistant Staphylococcus aureus, S. epidermidis,Enterococcus faecalis, have made a trouble in clinical field. In addition, it has been evidenced that obligate anaerobes on skin or mucous membrane acted as the pathogen of opportunistic infection owing to the popularization of anaerobes inspection as a result of the development of clinical testing technology. It has been reported that anaerobes are found with or without an aerobic bacteria at the rate of 50 80 on respiratory tract infections, intraperitoneal infections, chronic otitis media, paranasal sinusitis and obstetrical and gynecological infections, and the rate of the combination of anaerobes with Escherichia coli, Enterococcus faecalis and the other Streptococci is about 95 . Gradually increasing of the resistance rate of anaerobes to B lactam antibiotics or clindamycin, which were inherently effective against anaerobes, caused serious problem for choice of chemotherapeutic agents. Mycoplasma is known as a pathogen of respiratory tract infections, meningitis, endocarditis, arthritis and so on. For infections due to Mycoplasma, tetracyclines or macrolides were usually used, but in recent years, some Mycoplasma becomes highly resistant to these drugs, especially to macrolides. Therefore, in the future, it will be a trouble in the chemotherapy. Chlamydia, Ureaplasma and Gardneralla vaginalis recently have become a subject of discussion as pathogens of sexual infections. A effective new drug for these bacteria is also required. On these background, the development of new antimicrobial agents with stronger activity and broader spectrum is required. We had found norfloxacin which touched off today s prosperity of new quinolone antibacterial agents and had also studied mode of action. As a result, it was found that the target of quinolones was the DNA gyrase which controls topology of double helix DNA strands. Moreover, it was recognized that the antibacterial activity of quinolonecarboxylic acids related significantly to the penetrability through bacterial membrane, in particular, to the penetrability through the portion called porins. Based on these knowledges, the concept on new quinolines was established to coincide with the following paragraphs.1 To act on the DNA gyrase.2 To have good permeability through the outer membranes, in particular, porins.3 To be effective surely against gram positive bacteria, in particular, Staphylococci.4 Not to lower the activity against Gram negative bacteria.5 To act strongly against Serratia sp. and Pseudomonas aeruginosa which show resistance to other antimicrobial agents. 6 To show the activity against anaerobic bacteria.7 To possess good absorption and not to be metabolized easily. To be excellent in the productivity.9 To be excellent in the selective toxicity and not to exhibit the harmful side effect for living bodies. As the compounds possible to satisfy such concept, especially paragraph 9 , approximately, we synthesized novel substances represented by the formula I , and, as a result of the various investigation including its mode of action, the present invention has been completed. The special feature of compounds of the investigation in chemical structure is that they have a fluorine atom at 6 position, a chlorine atom at 8 position and a 3 aminopyrrolidinyl group at 7 position in the skeleton of quinolonecarboxylic acid. Previously, we found norfloxacin introduced a fluorine atom to 6 position in the skeleton of quinolonecarboxylic acid. Since norfloxacin was proved to have high usefulness for the bacterial infections clinically, the antibacterial agents of this class have been studied earnestly at domestic and foreign country, and an epoch making progress was brought about being called new quinolones or fluoroquinolones. As a result of the continuation of our tireless study thereafter, it was noticed that the substituent on 8 position also played extremely important roles in the extension of antibacterial spectrum, the increase in activity and the oral absorption as a drug. Namely, various substituents were introduced to 8 position by us, and these compounds were analyzed using techniques such as quantitative structure activity relationship.We have reached to the conclusion that a chlorine atom quite unexpectedly is optimal as the substituent at 8 position. Finaly, we developed a series of compounds which had a fluorine atom at the 6 position and a chlorine atom at the 8position as applicated previously. Especially, it was considered that 8 chloro 1 cyclopropyl 6 fluoro 1,4 dihydro 7 3 methyl 1 piperazinyl 4 oxo 3 quinolinecarboxylic acid compound of ref.2 was one of the most excellent compounds among any quinolone carboxylic acid derivatives because of its broad and strong antibacterial activity. But unfortunately, it was found that this compound had some disadvantage as the drug used clinically for human. For example, strong vomiting and clonic convulsion was observed in repeated oral administration to dog, suggested that it had side effect on central nervous system. Furthermore, marked elevation of GPT and decrease of TTT at this test seemed to be closely related to hepatoxicity of this compound. The results as mentioned above indicated that it might be impossible to use it for human. Based on these study, the inventors continued to research the drugs having more potent antibacterial activity and higher safety and then accomplished this invention. Furtheremore, it was surprising that the compound of invention exhibited far stronger antibacterial activity against anaerobic bacteria, Mycoplasma, Ureaplasma, Chiamydia andGardnerella vaginalis against which all of the older quinolonecarboxylic acids were low active or inactive. And the lower mutation frequency of bacteria was an advange of this compound.It was found that, in animals, the compound showed good oral absorption, excellent tissue distribution, satisfying biological stability and acceptability. In following, explanation is made about the preparation process for the compound of the invention.EMI7.1 wherein R is a hydrogen atom or a lower alkyl group, R1 and R2 are each independently a hydrogen atom or a protecting group of an amino group, or are a protecting group of an amino group which work together and X is a halogen atom. Namely, by allowing compounds represented by the formula II to react with amines represented by the formula Ill , compound of the invention represented by the formula I is synthesized. However, in the case of compounds wherein both or either of R1 and R2 are protecting group of an amino group in the formula III , e.g., R1 is a hydrogen atom and R2is a lower acyl group, for example, an acetyl group, a propionyl group and so on, a lower alkoxycarbonyl group, e.g., a methoxycarbonyl group, an ethoxycarbonyl group, a t butoxycarbonyl group and so on, or R1 and R2 are a phthaloyl group which work together, the resultants with the compounds represented by the formula I are removed the protecting group according to the usual method to give the compounds of the invention. Moreover, in the case of compounds wherein R is a lower alkyl group in the formula 11 , the reaction resultants with the compounds represented by the formula III are hydrolyzed according to the usual method and ester is converted to carboxylic acid to offer the compound of the invention. The reaction of compounds represented by the formula 11 with compounds represented by the formula III preferably is carried out by heating the mixture in a solvent such as water, alcohols, acetonitrile, dimethylformamide DMF , dimethyl sulfoxide DMSO , hexamethylphosphoric triamide, pyridine, picoline and the like or in the absence of the solvent.The reaction temperature is selected appropriately in a range of room temperature to 200 C, preferablely room temperature to 160 C.In more details, it is preferable to allow compounds represented by the formula 11 to react with 1 to 5 times mole of compounds represented by the formula ill for 1 to several hours at room temperature to 160 C in 2 to 10 times volume of aforementioned solvents. At this time, the use of deacidifying agents such as triethylamine, diazabicyclo bases and potassium carbonate is also desirable. Moreover, compounds I wherein R is a lower alkyl group in the formula I can be hydrolyzed according to the usual method. Such hydrolysis can be carried out easily with alkalies such as potassium hydoxide or acids such as sulfuric acid at room temperature to boiling point of solvents in water, mixed liquor of water with alcohols, mixed liquor of water with acetic acid, and so on. The starting compounds of the formula II are also new and obtained by the following procedures. EMI9.1 EMI10.1 Furthermore, the compounds of the formula I can be converted, if desired, to the pharmaceutically acceptable ammonium salts or carboxylic acid metal salts by treatment with acid or alkali. The acid may be organic or inorganic acids such as, for example, hydrochloric acid, sulfuric acid, phosphoric acid, acetic acid, methanesulfonic acid, oxalic acid and lactic acid.The carboxylic acid metal salts may be, for example, sodium, potassium, magnesium, calcium, aluminum, cerium, chromium, cobalt, copper, iron, zinc, platinum and silver salts. The compound of the formula I , hydrates and salts thereof may be used as medicines in the conventional form of pharmaceutical preparations, which may be, for example, tablets, capsules, powder, ointments, suppositories, injections or eye drops, suitable for peroral, parenteral, enteral or local administration. The following examples will further illustrate the present invention without, however, limiting it thereto.Example 1 N 3 chloro 4 fluorophenyl acetamide To 3 chloro 4 fluoroaniline 100 g was slowly added acetic anhydride 200 ml . After allowed to stand for 30 minutes, the reaction mixture was poured into water 1 litter . The resulting precipitate was collected by filtration and recrystallized from aqueous ethanol to give the title compound 119.4 g , mp 118119 C. Example 2 N 3 Chloro 4 fluoro 6 nitrophenyl acetamide To a solution of N 3 chloro 4 fluorophenyl acetamide 55 g in concentrated sulfuric acid 165 ml was added dropwise concentrated nitric acid d 1.42, 154 ml at 5 10 C during an hour with stirring in an ice salt bath. After stirring for an hour at the same temperature, the reaction mixture was poured into ice water. The resulting precipitate was collected by filtration, sufficiently washed with water and recrystallized from acetonitrile to give the title compound 48.9 g as yellow needles, mpL14 115 C. Analysis t for C8H6ClFN203, Calcd. Found C, 41.31 41.48 H, 2.60 2.52 N, 12.04 12.13 .Example 3 3 Chloro 4 fluoro 6 nitroaniline A solution of N 3 chloro 4 fluoro 6 nitrophenyl acetamide 30 g in concentrated hydrochloric acid 50 ml and ethanol 200 ml was refluxed for 2.5 hours. To the reaction mixture was added ice water 300 ml and the resulting precipitate was collected by filtration, washed with water and dried to give the title compound 24.9 g as yellow needles, mp 149.5 150 C. Analysis for C6H4ClFN2O2, Calcd. Found C, 37.82 37.85 H, 2.11 2.03 N, 14.70 14.80 .Example 4 2, 3 Dichloro 4 fluoro 6 nitroaniline Into a solution of 3 chloro 4 fluoro 6 nitroaniline 14.3 g in acetic acid 150 ml was boubled chlorine gas at 18 20 C during 70 minutes. The reaction mixture was poured into ice water 300 ml and the resulting precipitate was collected by filtration, washed with water and recrystallized from ethanol to give the title compound 14.33 g as yellow needles, mp 161 C. Analysis 8 for C6H3Cl2 FN202, Calcd. Found C, 32.03 32.17 H, 1.34 1.26 N, 12.45 12.65 . Example 5 2,3,4 Trichloro 5 fluoronitrobenzene To a mixture of anhydrous cupric chloride 13.58 g and tbutylnitrite 12.4 g in anhydrous acetonitrile 100 ml was added portionwise 2,3 dichloro 4 fluoro 6 nitroaniline 18.05 g at 60 62 C during 30 minutes. After stirring for 30 minutes at 60 65 C, the reaction mixture was poured into chilled 10 diluted hydrochloric acid 300 ml and extracted with benzene. The organic layer was successively washed with diluted hydrochloric acid and water, dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate and concentrated. The resulting residue was purified by distillation to give the title compound 17.26 g , bp 137 142 C 27 mmHg. NMR d in CDC13 , 7.65 d, J 7.5 Hz Example 6 3 Chloro 2,4,5 trifluoronitrobenzene To a suspension of potassium fluoride 64.9 g in anhydrous dimethyl sulfoxide 230 ml was added 2,3,4 trichloro 5 fluoronitrobenzene 54.4 g at 140 C and stirred at the same temperature for 10 minutes. The reaction mixture was poured into ice water 700 ml and extracted with petroleum ether. The organic layer was successively washed with water, aqueous potassium carbonate solution and then water, dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate and concentrated. The resulting residue was distilled to give the title compound 9.7 g , bp 95 108 eC 30mmHg. NMR d in CDC13 , 7.94 ddd, J 6.7, 7.6, 9.0 Hz Example 7 3 Chloro 2 cyclopropylamino 4 , 5 difluoronitro benzene A solution of cyclopropylamine 2.8 g and triethylamine 5.1 g in anhydrous toluene 20 ml was added dropwise to a solution of 3 chloro 2,4,5 trifluoronitrobenzene 19.7 g in anhydrous toluene 30 ml at 3 5 C during 40 minutes with stirring After stirring for 3 hours at the same temperature, the reaction mixture was poured into ice water 150 ml and extracted with dichloromethane. The organic layer was washed with water, dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate and then concentrated. The resulting residue was purified by silica gel chromatography using n hexane dichloromethane as an eluent to give the title compound 4.4 g as red oil.NMR 6 in CDC13 , 0.5 1.0 4H, m,EMI14.1 3.0 3.2 1H, m,EMI14.2 7.19 1H, s, NH , 7.85 1H, dd, J 8.2, 9.9 Hz, 5 H .Example 8 N 2 Chloro 3,4 difluoro 6 nitrophenyl N cyclo propylacetamide To 3 chloro 2 cyclopropylamino 4 ,5 difluoronitrobenzene 4.4 g was added acetic anhydride 15 ml with one portion and the mixture was stirred for 30 minutes at room temperature, and then poured into ice water 100 ml . Excessive acetic anhydride was decomposed by potassium carbonate powder, and then the mixture was allowed to stand overnight at 5 C. The resulting precipitate was collected by filtration and recrystallized from ethyl acetate n hexane to give the title compound 2.7 g , mp 98 99,5 C Analysis for CllHgClF2N203, Calcd. Found C, 45.46 45.56 H, 3.12 3.00 , N, 9.64 9.69 .Example 9 N 2 Chloro 3,4 difluorophenyl N cyclopropyl acetamide A mixture of N 2 chloro 3 , 4 difluoro 6 nitrophenyl N cyclopropylacetamide 2.7 g and 10 t palladium charcoal 0.5 g in ethanol 50 ml was hydrogenated for 40 minutes at 2 3 C under atmospheric pressure in an ice bath. The catalyst was filtered off and the filtrate was concentrated. Then, the re sulting crystalline residue was dried in vacuo at room temperature for 10 hours. A solution of the residue in anhydrous dimethylformamide 15 ml was added dropwise to a solution of tbutyl nitrite 1.72 g in anhydrous dimethylformamide 10 ml at 50 52 C during 13 minutes. The reaction mixture was stirred at the same temperature for 5 minutes, then poured into ice water and extracted with ether.The organic layer was successively washed with water, dilute hydrochloric acid and water, dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate and concentrated. The resulting residue was purified by silica gel chromatography using n hexane ethyl acetate as an eluent and recrystallized from petroleum ether to give the title compound 0.44 g , mp 60.5 61.5 C. Analysis for C1lHloClF2NO, Calcd. Found C, 53.78 53.87 H, 4.10 4.02 N, 5.70 5.78 .Example 10 N Cyclopropyl 2 chloro 3, 4 difluoroaniline A solution of N 2 chloro 3, 4 difluorophenyl N cyclopropyl acetamide 0.44. g in 20 diluted hydrochloric acid 7 ml was heated at 80 100 C for 6 hours with stirring, and then cooled.The reaction mixture was poured into ice water, alkalized with aqueous sodium hydroxide and extracted with ether. The ether layer was washed with water, dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate and then concentrated. The resulting residue was purified by silica gel chromatography using petroleum ether as an eluent to give the title compound 100 mg as orange oil.Example 11 Ethyl 8 chloro 1 cyclopropyl 6 ,7 difluoro 1,4 dihydro 4 oxo 3 quinolinecarboxylate A mixture of N cyclopropyl 2 chloro 3,4 difluoroaniline 100 mg and diethyl ethoxymethylenemalonate 100 mg was stirred for 10.5 hours at 100 135 C with removal of generated ethanol by flowing nitrogen gas, and then cooled. Polyphosphoric acid 1 g was mixed with this, and the mixture was stirred for 3 hours at 125 135 eC. After cooling, the reaction mixture poured into ice water, extracted with chloroform. The organic layer was successively washed with aqueous potassium carbonate and water, dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate and then concentrated.The resulting residue was purified with silica gel thin layer chromatography using ether as an eluent to give the title compound 11 mg as colorless needles, mp 160 162.5 C. NMR 6 in CDC13 , 1.0 1.5 4H, m,EMI16.1 1.40 3H, t, J 7.DHz, CH , 4.1 4.4 1H, m,EMI16.2 4.38 2H, q, J 7.0 Hz,CH3 , 8.22 1H, dd, J 8.8, 9.7 Hz, 5 H , 8.66 1H, S, 2 H Example 12 2,3, 4 Trichloro 5 fluoroaniline To a suspension of iron powder 54.6 g in water 60 ml , with vigorous stirring at 50 60 C, was slowly added concentrated hydrochloric acid 6.7 ml . After ethanol 150 ml was mixed, 2,3,4 trichloro 5 fluoronitrobenzene 75.1 g was added portionwise to the suspension at 60 70 C during an hour. After stirring for an hour at 80 C, the hot reaction mixture was filtered and the insoluble material was successively washed with hot ethanol 100 ml and benzene 300 ml . The filtrate and washings were combined and mixed with ice water. The resulting organic layer was collected and the water layer was extracted with benzene 200 ml . The organic layers were washed with water, dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate and then concentrated. The resulting residue was recrystallized from n hexane to give the title compound 58.6g as light brown needles, mp 118 120 C.Example 13 2,3, 4 Trichloro 5 fluorobenzonitrile To a suspension of 2,3,4 trichloro 5 fluoroaniline 43.8 g in concentrated hydrochloric acid 300 ml with vigorous stirring was added sodium nitrite 21.1 g in water 50 ml at 2s C for 20 minutes. After stirred for 30 minutes, the mixture was poured into ice water 300 ml containing sodium tetrafluoroborate 67.2 g , stirred vigorously and then allowed to stand for 30 minutes in an ice bath. The resulting precipitate was collected by filtration and successively washed with chilled water and ether. This faint yellow precipitate was added portionwise during 30 minutes to a solution of cuprous cyanide 36.5 g , potassium cyanide 53.0 g and sodium carbonate 11.1 g in water 300 ml with vigorous stirring at room temperature.After the mixture was stirred for 30 minutes, benzene 300my was added to the suspension and then the mixture was stirred for 15 minutes.The insoluble material was collected by filtration, and washed with benzene 150 ml . The filtrate and washings were combined and successively washed with 20 aqueous potassium cyanide and water, dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate and then concentrated.The resulting residue was recrystallized from n hexane to give the title compound 27 g as light brown needles, mp 97 99 ec. Example 14 3 Chloro 2,4,5 trifluorobenzonitrile To a solution of potassium fluoride 131.7 g in dimethyl sulfoxide 100 ml with stirring at 130 C was added 2,3,4 trichloro 5 fluorobenzonitrile 15 g and then the mixture was stirred for 1.5 hours at 140 C. After cooling, the reaction mixture was poured into ice water 300 ml and extracted with dichloromethane. The organic layer was washed with water, dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate and concentrated to give the title compound 11.9 g as pale brown oil.Example 15 3 Chloro 2,4,5 trifluorobenzamide A solution of 3 chloro 2,4,5 trifluorobenzonitrile 11.9 g in 30 hydrogen bromide acetic acid 150 ml was refluxed for 80 minutes, poured into ice water 350 ml and extracted with ether.The ether layer was successively washed with 1 N potassium hydroxide solution and water, dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate and concentrated. The residue was purified by silica gel chromatography eluting with n hexane ethyl acetate to give the title compound 3.97 g , mp 110 113.S C. Example 16 3 Chloro 2,4,5 trifluorobenzoic acid A mix tsre of 3 chloro 2,4,5 trifluorobenzamide 3.97 g and 18 N sulfuric acid 20 ml was stirred at 125 135 C for 9 hours, and then poured into ice water 100 ml . After standing overnight, the resulting precipitate was collected by filtration.The mother liquor was extracted with ether, and the ether layer was dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate, then concentrated and mixed to the precipitate. A solution of the above precipitate and residue in dichloromethane 150 ml was filtered through a celite pad and the filtrate was concentrated to give the title compound 2.38 g , mp 115 116.5 C. Analysis for C7H2ClF3O2, Calcd. Found C, 39.93 40.18 H, 0.96 0.80 .Example 17 3 Chloro 2,4,5 trifluorobenzoyl chloride A solution of the 3 chloro 2,4,5 trifluorobenzoic acid 2.38 g in thionyl chloride 10 ml was refluxed for 2.5 hours, and then concentrated. The resulting residue was purified by distillation in nitrogen atomosphere to give the title compound 1.99 g , bp 88 C 19 mmHg.Example 18 Diethyl 3 chloro 2,4,5 trifluorobenzoylmalonate Magnesium turnings 0.22 g and carbon tetrachloride 0.1 ml was added to absolute ethanol 1.5 ml . To the stirring suspension was added dropwise a solution of diethyl malonate 1.4 g and absolute ethanol 2 ml in toluene 6 ml during 28 minutes at 47 60 C. The mixture was stirred for 80 minutes1 and then cooled in an acetone dry ice bath. A solution of 3 chloro2,4,5 trifluorobenzoyl chloride 1.99 g in anhydrous toluene 2 ml was added dropwise to the resulting solution at 12s 8 C during 13 minutes. The mixture was stiired for 2 hours at 10s 5 C allowed to stand overnight at room temperature, and then mixed with ice water 6 ml containing concentrated sulfuric acid 0.4 ml .The resulting organic layer was collected and the water layer was extracted with toluene. The combined organic layer was washed with water1 dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate and then concentrated to give the title compound 3.05 g as pale yellow oil. Example 19 Ethyl 3 chloro 2,4,5 trifluorobenzoylacetate To an emulsion of diethyl 3 chloro 2,4,5 trifluorobenzoylmalonate 3.05 g in water 4 ml was added p toluenesulfonic acid 4 mg and refluxed for 4 hours with vigorous stirring.After cooling, the reaction mixture was extracted with dichloromethane. The organic layer was washed with water, dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate and concentrated. The residue was recrystallized from ether n hexane to give the title compound 1.22 g , mp 80 83 C. Analysis 8 for CllH8ClF303, Calcd. Found C, 47.08 46.96 , H, 2.87 2.77 . Example 20 Ethyl 2 3 chloro 2,4,5 trifluorobenzoyl 3 ethoxyacrylate A mixture of ethyl 3 chloro 2,4,5 trifluorobenzoylacetate 1.22 g , ethyl orthoformate 0.97 g and acetic anhydride 1.12 g was stirred at 118 143 C for 3 hours and then concentrated to give the title compound 1.4 g as yellow oil. Example 21 Ethyl 2 3 chloro 2,4,5 trifluorobenzoyl 3 cyclo propylaminoacrylate To a solution of ethyl 2 3 chloro 2,4,5 trifluorobenzoyl 3 ethoxyacrylate 1.4 g in absolute ethanol 3 ml was added a solution of cyclopropylamine 0.26 g in absolute ethanol 2 ml at 5 10 C during 15 minutes. The mixture was allowed to stand at 5 C for 1.5 hours and then stirred at room temperature for an hour. The resulting precipitate was collected by filtration.The filtrate was concentrated, mixed with the precipitate and then recrystallized from petroleum ether to give the title com pound 1.09 g , mp 84 85.5 C. Analysis for C15H13ClF3N03, Calcd. Found C, 51.81 51.76 H, 3.77 3.74 N, 4.03 4.03 .Example 22 Ethyl 8 chloro 1 cyclopropyl 6,7 difluoro 1,4 dihydro 4 oxo 3 quinolinecarboxylate To a solution of ethyl 2 3 chloro 2,4,5 trifluorobenzoyl 3 cyclopropylaminoacrylate 1.09 g in anhydrous dimethylformamide 5 ml was added sodium fluoride 0.21 g . The mixture was stirred at 130 156 C for 3.5 hours, and then poured into ice water 50 ml and the resulting precipitate was collcted by filtration, washed with water and recrystallized from ethyl acetate to give the title compound 0.96 g , mp 158 159 C. Analysis for C15Hl2ClF2NO3, Calcd. Found C, 54.98 54.96 , H, 3.69 3.57 N, 4.27 4.25 .Example 23 8 Chloro l cyclopropyl 6, 7 difluoro i, 4 dihydro 4 oxo 3 quinolinecarboxylic acid A mixture of ethyl 8 chloro i cyclopropyl 6,7 difluoro 1,4 dihydro 4 oxo 3 quinolinecarboxylate 0.24 g , acetic acid 2 ml , water 1.5 ml and concentrated sulfuric acid 0.25 ml was refluxed for an hour, and then poured into ice water. The resulting precipitate was collected by filtration and successively washed with water and ether to give the title compound 0.17 g , mp 194 195 C. Analysis for C13H8ClF2NO3, Calcd. Found C, 52.11 52.00 H, 2.69 2.53 N, 4.67 4.64 .Example 24 7 3 tt Butoxycarbonylamino l pyrrolidinyl 8 chloro 1 cyclopropyl 6 fluoro l, 4 dihydro 4 oxo 3 quinolonecarboxylic acid A mixture of 8 chloro 1 cyclopropyl 6, 7 difluoro 1, 4 di hydro 4 oxo 3 quinolinecarboxylic acid 500 mg, 1.67 mmol , anhydrous acetonitrile 5 ml , 1,8 diazabicyclo 5,4,0 7 undecene DBU, 250 mg, 1.67 mmol and 3 t butoxycarbonylamino pyrrolidine 430 mg was refluxed for an hour. The reacting mixture was concentrated under reduced pressure, to the resulting residue was added ethanol ether and stood for 2 days in a refrigerator.The resulting precipitate was filtered and washed with ethanol ether 1 1 and etcher successively to give the title compound 430 mg, 55.3 as pale yellow powder. IR maxKBrcm 1 3300 NH CO , 1710EMI22.1 1620 C O NMR d in CDCl3 0.80 1.30 4H, m , 1.45 9H, s , 1.60 2.50 3H, m , 3.10 3.96 4H, m , 4.00 4.60 1H, m , 7.94 1H, d,J 13.18 Hz , 8.86 1H, s .Example 25 7 3 Amino 1 pyrrolidinyl 8 chloro 1 cyclopropyl 6 fluoro 1,4 dihydro 4 oxo 3 quinolinecarboxylic acid 7 3 t Butoxycarbonylamino 1 pyrrolidinyl 8 chloro 1cyclopropyl 6 fluoro 1,4 dihydro 4 oxo 3 quinolinecarboxylic acid 430 mg was dissolved in a mixture of methanol 5 ml and concentrated hydrochloric acid 5 ml and stirred at room temperature for 30 minutes. To the reacting mixture was added concentrated aqueous ammonia to adjust pH to 7, and the resulting precipitate was filtered, washed with water and methanol successively and recrystallized from a mixture of chloroform methanol concentrated aqueous ammonia to give the title compound 110 mg as milk white powder, mp 253 258 C decompd. . Analysis for C17H17ClFN3O3, Calcd. Found C, 55.82 56.09 H, 4.68 4.82 N, 11.49 11.46 .Example 26 7 3 acetamido 1 pyrrolidinyl 8 chloro 1 cyclo propyl 6 fluoro 1, 4 dihydro 4 oxo 3 quinoline carboxylic acid A mixture of 8 chloro l cyclopropyl 6,7 difluoro 1,4 hydro 4 oxo 3 quinolinecarboxylic acid 1 g , anhydrous acetonitrile 10 ml , 3 acetamidopyrrolidine 0.64 g and DBU 0.51 g was refluxed for an hour. The reacting mixture was concentrated under reduced pressure, the resulting residue was dissolved in chloroform 20 ml and washed with 10 aqueous citric acid solution 10 ml . The chloroform layer was further washed with aqueous saturated sodium chloride solution, dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate and concentrated under reduced pressure.The resulting residue was recrystallized from methanol to give the title compound 1.2 g as pale yellow prisms, mp 210 212 C. Analysis for ClgHlgClFN304 1 4 H2O, Calcd. Found C, 55.35 55.39 H, 4.77 4.68 N, 10.19 10.12 .Example 27 7 3 Amino l pyrrolidinyl 8 chloro 1 cyclopropyl 6 fluoro 1 ,4 dihydro 4 oxo 3 quinolinecarboxylic acid A mixture of 7 acetamido 1 pyrrolidinyl 8 chloro 1 cyclo propyl 6 fluoro 1, 4 dihydro 4 oxo 3 quinolinecarboxylic acid 0.8 g and water 20 ml containing sodium hydroxide 0.8 g was refluxed for 5 hours. The reacting mixture was neutralized with acetic acid, the resulting precipitate was collected by filtration. This precipitate was washed with water, dried and recrystallized from a mixture of methanol chloroform concentrated aqueous ammonia to give the title compound 0.41 g as white plate, mp 238 240 C decompd. . Analyses for C17H17ClFN3O3.1 2 H2O, Calcd. Found C, 54.48 54.44 H, 4.84 4.78 N, 11.21 11.20 .Example 28 7 3 Amino l pyrrolidinyl 8 chloro 1 cyclopropyl 6 fluoro 1,4 dihydro 4 oxo 3 quinolinecarboxylic acid A mixture of 8 chloro i cyclopropyl 6, 7 difluoro l, 4 di hydro 4 oxo 3 quinolinecarboxylic acid 0.6 g , anhydrous acetonitrile 6 ml , 3 aminopyrrolidine 0.35 g and DBU 0.31 g was refluxed for an hour. Then, 3 aminopyrrolidine 0.2 g was more added and further refluxed for 2 hours. After cooling, the resulting precipitate was collected by filtration, dissolved in water 9 ml containing sodium hydroxide 0.12 g and neutralized with acetic acid. The resulting precipitate was collected by filtration and washed with water and acetonitrile successively to give the title compound 0.52 g as colorless powder, mp 237 238 C decompd. . Analysis for C17Hl7ClFN303 H2O, Calcd. Found C, 53.20 52.97 H, 4.99 4.62 N, 10.95 10.83 .Example 29 7 3 Amino l pyrrolidinyl 8 chloro l cyclopropyl 6 fluoro 1,4 dihydro 4 oxo 3 quinlinecarboxylic acid hydrochloride To a suspension of 7 3 amino 1 pyrrolidinyl 8 chloro 1 cyclopropyl 6 fluoro 1,4 dihydro 4 oxo 3 quinolinecarboxylic acid 100 mg in ethanol 2 ml was added 0.2 ml of ethanol solution of hydrogen chloride 7.0 mmol HCl ml and then the mixture was concentrated. The resulting residue was recrystallized from methanol to give the title compound 79 mg as light yellow prisms, mp 263 265 C decompd. . Analysis for C17H17ClFN303 HCl, Calcd. Found C, 50.76 50.50 t H, 4.51 4.44 N, 10.45 10.38 .Experiment 1. Antibacterial spectrum Minimal inhibitory concentrations MICs were determined in accordance with the method recommended by Japan Society of Chemotherapy. The results are shown in Table 1 and 2. The present compound showed a much stronger antibacterial activity against anaerobic bacteria and aerobic gram positive bacteria, which were standard or clinical isolated strains, than the reference compounds. Especially, the present compound showed excellent activity against Pseudomonas aeruginosa than the reference compounds. Table 1 1 In vitro antibacterial activity standard strains EMI26.1 tb SEP MIC SEP g ml tb SEP Organism SEP 106 SEP cells ml SEP Gram SEP Exp. SEP 25 SEP Ref. SEP 1 SEP Ref. SEP 2 SEP CFLX SEP CI 934 tb Bacillus SEP subtilis SEP PCI SEP 219 SEP SEP 0.025 SEP 0.025 SEP 0.025 SEP 0.05 SEP 0.05 tb Staphylococcus SEP aureus SEP 209 SEP P SEP SEP 0.05 SEP 0.20 SEP 0.10 SEP 0.39 SEP 0.10 tb S. SEP aureus SEP IID SEP 670 SEP Terajima SEP SEP 0.05 SEP 0.20 SEP 0.10 SEP 0.39 SEP 0.10 tb S. SEP epidermidis SEP lID SEP 866 SEP SEP 0.05 SEP 0.20 SEP 0.10 SEP 0.39 SEP 0.10 tb Streptococcus SEP pyogenes SEP S ss SEP SEP 0.05 SEP 0.39 SEP 0.39 SEP 0.39 SEP 0.20 tb S. SEP pyogenes SEP IID SEP 692 SEP SEP 0.10 SEP 0.78 SEP 0.78 SEP 0.78 SEP 0.39 tb S. SEP pneumoniae SEP IID SEP 552 SEP SEP 0.10 SEP 0.78 SEP 0.39 SEP 1.56 SEP 0.39 tb E. SEP faecalis SEP IID SEP 682 SEP SEP 0.10 SEP 0.78 SEP 0.39 SEP 0.78 SEP 0.39 tb Escherichia SEP coli SEP NIHJ SEP JC 2 SEP SEP 0.006 SEP 0.006 SEP 0.006 SEP 0.006 SEP 0.10 tb E. SEP coli SEP ATCC SEP 10536 SEP SEP 0.0125 SEP 0.0125 SEP 0.0125 SEP 0.0125 SEP 0.10 tb Proteus SEP vulgaris SEP IFO SEP 3167 SEP SEP 0.0125 SEP 0.006 SEP 0.0125 SEP 0.006 SEP 0.05 tb P. SEP mirabilis SEP IID SEP 994 SEP SEP 0.0125 SEP 0.006 SEP 0.0125 SEP 0.0125 SEP 0.20 tb P. SEP mirabilis SEP IID SEP 602 SEP SEP 0.05 SEP 0.0125 SEP 0.05 SEP 0.05 SEP 0.39 tb Klebsiella SEP pneumoniae SEP KY GN 6445 SEP SEP 0.0125 SEP 0.0125 SEP 0.025 SEP 0.0125 SEP 0.20 tb K. SEP pneumoniae SEP 1 220S SEP SEP 0.05 SEP 0.05 SEP 0.05 SEP 0.05 SEP 0.39 tb Enterobacter SEP cloacae SEP IID SEP 977 SEP SEP 0.05 SEP 0.025 SEP 0.05 SEP 0.05 SEP 0.78 tb Citrobacter SEP freundii SEP IID SEP 976 SEP SEP 0.0125 SEP 0.0125 SEP 0.05 SEP 0.006 SEP 0.20 tb Serratia SEP marcescens SEP lID SEP 618 SEP SEP 0.05 SEP 0.10 SEP 0.05 SEP 0.39 SEP 0.39 tb Shigella SEP sonnei SEP IID SEP 969 SEP SEP 0.0125 SEP 0.006 SEP 0.0125 SEP 0.006 SEP 0.10 tb Salmonella SEP enteritidis SEP IID SEP 604 SEP SEP 0.0125 SEP 0.0125 SEP 0.05 SEP 0.025 SEP 0.39 tb Pseudomonas SEP aeruginosa SEP V 1 SEP SEP 0.20 SEP 0.20 SEP 0.20 SEP 0.20 SEP SEP tb P. SEP aeruginosa SEP IFO SEP 12689 SEP SEP 0.20 SEP 0.39 SEP 1.56 SEP 0.39 SEP 6.25 tb Yersinia SEP enterocolitica SEP IID SEP 981 SEP SEP SEP 0.025 SEP 0.025 SEP 0.05 SEP 0.05 SEP 0.39 tb Acinetobacter SEP anitratus SEP IID SEP 876 SEP SEP 0.05 SEP 0.0125 SEP 0.05 SEP 0.025 SEP 0.39 tb Alcaligenes SEP faecalis SEP 0104002 SEP SEP 0.05 SEP 0.025 SEP 0.20 SEP 0.39 SEP 6.25 tb Table 1 2 In vitro antibacterial activity standard strains EMI27.1 tb SEP MIC SEP yg ml SEP tb SEP Organism SEP 106 SEP cells ml SEP Gram tb SEP Exp.25 SEP Ref.1 SEP Ref.2 SEP CFLX SEP CI 934 tb Bacteroides SEP fragilis SEP GM SEP 7000 SEP SEP SEP 0.10 SEP 1.56 SEP 0.39 SEP 3.13 SEP 6.25 tb B. SEP fragilis SEP 0558 SEP SEP SEP 0.10 SEP 0.78 SEP 0.39 SEP 3.13 SEP 3.13 tb B. SEP fragilis SEP 25285 SEP SEP 0.10 SEP 0.78 SEP 0.39 SEP 6.25 SEP 3.13 tb B. SEP fragilis SEP 8503 SEP SEP 0.39 SEP SEP 0.78 SEP 6.25 SEP 6.25 tb B. SEP thetaiotaomicron SEP 0661 SEP SEP 0.20 SEP 3.13 SEP 0.78 SEP 25 SEP 25 tb Fusobacterium SEP necrophorum SEP S 45 SEP SEP 0.20 SEP SEP 0.39 SEP 1.56 SEP tb F. SEP varium SEP KYA SEP 8501 SEP SEP 0.78 SEP 3.13 SEP 3.13 SEP 12.5 SEP 6.25 tb Eubacterium SEP lentum SEP GAI SEP 5242 SEP SEP 0.10 SEP SEP 0.20 SEP 0.78 SEP SEP tb Propionibacterium SEP acens SEP 11828 SEP SEP 1.56 SEP SEP 3.13 SEP 12.5 tb Peptococcus SEP magnus SEP KY SEP 017 SEP SEP 0.05 SEP SEP 0.20 SEP 0.39 SEP SEP tb Clostridium SEP difficile SEP I E SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP 3.13 tb C. SEP perfringens SEP KYA SEP 13123 SEP SEP 0.10 SEP 0.39 SEP 0.39 SEP 0.39 SEP SEP tb C. SEP ramosum SEP SEP 0.78 SEP SEP 3.13 SEP 6.25 SEP SEP tb Peptostreptococcus SEP anaerobius tb SEP SEP 0.20 SEP SEP 0.78 SEP 1.56 SEP tb SEP KYA SEP 27337 tb Pst. SEP microns SEP UPI SEP 5464 1 SEP SEP 0.05 SEP SEP 0.20 SEP 0.20 SEP SEP tb Veillonella SEP parvula SEP KYA SEP 10790 SEP SEP SEP 0.05 SEP SEP 0.20 SEP 0.20 SEP SEP tb Ref.1 1 Cyclopropyl 6,8 difluoro 1,4 dihydro 4 oxo 7 1 piperazinyl 3 quinoline carboxylic acidRef.2 8 Chloro 1 cyclopropyl 6 fluoro 1,4 dihydro 7 3 methyl 1 piperazinyl 4 oxo 3 quinolinecarboxylic acidCFLX CiprofloxacinCI 934 1 Ethyl 7 3 ethylaminomethyl 1 pyrrolidinyl 6,8 difluoro 1,4 dihydro 4 oxo 3 quinolinecarboxylic acid Table 2 In vitro antibacterial activity clinical isolates EMI28.1 tb SEP No. SEP of SEP NIC SEP g ml SEP tb Clinical SEP isolates tb SEP strains SEP Exp.25 SEP Ref.2 SEP CFLX SEP OFLX SEP NFLX tb S. SEP aureus SEP .21 SEP 0.05 SEP 0.10 SEP 0.39 SEP 0.39 SEP 1.56 tb MR S. SEP aureus SEP 46 SEP 0.10 SEP 0.39 SEP 3.13 SEP 1.56 SEP 25 tb S. SEP epidermidis SEP 10 SEP 0.05 SEP 0.10 SEP 0.20 SEP 0.39 SEP 0.78 tb S. SEP pyogenes SEP SEP 6 SEP 0.10 SEP 0.39 SEP 0.39 SEP 1.56 SEP 1.56 tb S. SEP pneumoniae SEP SEP 6 SEP 0.10 SEP 0.78 SEP 1.56 SEP 3.13 SEP 12.5 tb E. SEP faecalis SEP SEP 5 SEP 0.20 SEP 0.78 SEP 0.78 SEP 3.13 SEP 6.25 tb N. SEP gonorrhoeae SEP 16 SEP 0.013 SEP 0.006 SEP 0.025 SEP 0.05 SEP 0.10 tb N. SEP meningitidis SEP SEP 3 SEP SEP 0.006 SEP 0.006 SEP 0.006 SEP 0.025 SEP 0.05 tb B. SEP catarrhalis SEP 21 SEP 0.05 SEP 0.05 SEP 0.10 SEP 0.20 SEP 1.56 tb H. SEP influenzae SEP .26 SEP 0.013 SEP 0.025 SEP 0.05 SEP 0.10 SEP 0.20 tb E. SEP coli SEP 25 SEP 0.013 SEP 0.025 SEP 0.025 SEP 0.10 SEP 0.10 tb P. SEP pneumoniae SEP 25 SEP 0.05 SEP 0.20 SEP 0.20 SEP 0.78 SEP 0.78 tb E. SEP cloacae SEP 21 SEP 0.013 SEP 0.05 SEP 0.05 SEP 0.10 SEP 0.10 tb S. SEP marcescens SEP 20 SEP 0.05 SEP 0.05 SEP 0.05 SEP 0.20 SEP 0.10 tb P. SEP mirabilis SEP 10 SEP 0.05 SEP 0.05 SEP 0.05 SEP 0.20 SEP 0.10 tb P. SEP vulgaris SEP SEP 6 SEP 0.05 SEP 0.05 SEP 0.05 SEP 0.10 SEP 0.05 tb H. SEP morganii SEP SEP 8 SEP 0.025 SEP 0.10 SEP 0.05 SEP 0.10 SEP 0.05 tb C. SEP freundii SEP SEP 9 SEP 0.10 SEP 0.20 SEP 0.10 SEP 0.39 SEP 0.39 tb P. SEP aeruginosa SEP 27 SEP 0.20 SEP 1.56 SEP 0.39 SEP 3.13 SEP 1.56 tb P. SEP maltophilia SEP SEP 9 SEP 0.78 SEP 1.56 SEP 12.5 SEP 6.25 SEP 25 tb Acinetobacter SEP sp. SEP 13 SEP 0.10 SEP 0.78 SEP 1.56 SEP 3.13 SEP 12.5 tb Alcaligenes SEP sp. SEP . SEP 9 SEP 0.78 SEP 6.25 SEP 6.25 SEP 6.25 SEP 100 tb Campylobacter SEP jejune SEP 20 SEP 0.05 SEP 0.20 SEP 0.20 SEP 0.39 SEP 0.78 tb Bacteroides SEP sp. SEP 17 SEP 0.10 SEP 0.39 SEP 6.25 SEP 3.13 SEP 50 tb OFLX OfloxacinNFLX Norfloxacin Experiment 2. Frequency of spontaneous resistant mutants Each test strain was grown overnight in Mueller Hinton broth Difco at 37 C, and then 0.1 ml of each culture broth was inoculated into 10 ml of Mueller Hinton broth. After incubation at 37 0C for 6 hours by shaking, the bacterial cells were harvested by centrifugation at 3,000 rpm for 15 minutes. The pellets were suspended in 5 ml of fresh Mueller Hinton broth.One portion 0.1 ml of these bacterial suspensions was inoculated onto Muller Hinton agar containing each compound at 2, 4 or 8 fold MIC, and then plates were incubated at 37 C for 48 hours.Table 3 shows the frequency of resistant mutants to the present compound or to the reference compounds. The mutation frequency was calculated as follows the number of colonies appeared on drug containing agar plate total number of the viable cells of inoculation. Spontaneous mutation frequency of present compound was significantly lower than those of the reference compounds. Table 3 Frequency of spontaneous resistant mutantsEMI30.1 tb SEP Strains SEP Conc. SEP of SEP Example SEP 25 SEP Ref.2 SEP CFLX tb SEP Drugs tb SEP S. SEP aureus SEP 2MIC SEP 2.9 SEP x SEP 10 8 SEP 8 SEP 3.6 SEP x10 7 SEP tb 209 SEP P SEP 4MIC SEP 2.9 SEP x SEP 10 SEP 9 SEP 5.1 SEP x SEP 10 8 SEP 1.3 SEP x10 7 SEP tb SEP S. SEP aures SEP 2MIC SEP 2.9 SEP x SEP 10 9 SEP 3.6 SEP x SEP 10 7 SEP 4.1 SEP x SEP 10 8 tb SEP Smith tb E. SEP clocae SEP 2MIC SEP 6.7 SEP x SEP 10 10 SEP 3.1 SEP x SEP 10 7 SEP 1.0 SEP x SEP 10 8 tb SEP IID SEP 977 SEP 4MIC SEP 6.7 SEP x SEP 10 10 SEP 6.7 SEP x SEP 10 10 SEP 6.7 SEP x SEP 10 10 tb SEP S. SEP marcescens SEP 2MIC SEP 1.5 SEP x SEP 10 8 SEP 1.0 SEP x SEP 10 SEP 4.1 SEP X SEP tb SEP IId SEP 618 SEP 4MIC SEP 1.0 SEP x SEP 10 9 SEP 1.0 SEP x SEP 10 9 SEP 1.0 SEP x SEP 10 9 tb SEP 2MIC SEP 2.3 SEP x SEP 10 7 SEP SEP 1.2 SEP x SEP 10 7 tb SEP S. SEP marcescens tb SEP GN SEP 7577 SEP 4MIC SEP 5.3 SEP x SEP 10 10 SEP 9.9 SEP x SEP 10 7 SEP 5.3 SEP x SEP 10 10 tb SEP 8MIC SEP 5.3 SEP x SEP 10 SEP 10 SEP 2.1 SEP x SEP 10 9 SEP 5.3 SEP x SEP 10 SEP 10 tb SEP P. SEP aeruginosa SEP 2MIC SEP 4.5 SEP x SEP 10 8 SEP 5.5 SEP x SEP 10 7 SEP 1.5 SEP x SEP 10 7 tb SEP IFO SEP 12689 SEP 4MIC SEP 6.7 SEP x SEP 10 10 SEP 6.7 SEP x SEP 10 10 SEP 1.9 SEP x SEP 10 9 tb SEP P. SEP aeruginosa SEP 2MIC SEP 6.7 SEP x SEP 10 10 SEP 7.7 SEP x SEP 10 8 SEP tb SEP IFO SEP 1210 SEP 4MIC SEP 6.7 SEP x SEP 10 10 SEP 6.7 SEP x SEP 10 10 SEP 7.0 SEP x SEP 10 8 tb Experiment 3. In vivo antibacterial activity against systemic infections in mice The infections were produced by intraperitoneal injection of suspension of the bacterial cells. The compounds were administered orally at an hour after the injection. Five male ICR mice were used for each dosage. The 50 effective dose ED50 which protects 50 of animals from infectious death was determined from the relation between dosage and survival rate. The efficacy of the present compound are shown in Table 4 in comparison with those of the rejereace compounds. The present compound was more effective than the reference compounds against all bacterial infections tested. Particularly, it showed excellent efficacy against S. pneumoniae infection, on which the reference compounds were ineffective. Table 4 In vivo antibacterial activity against systemic infections in miceEMI32.1 tb SEP ED SEP j SEP tb SEP Compound SEP E. SEP coli SEP P. SEP aeruginosa SEP S. SEP aureus SEP S. SEP pneumoniae tb SEP ML SEP 4707 SEP IID SEP 1210 SEP Smith SEP S 4288 tb Example SEP 25 SEP 0.9 SEP 2.9 SEP 2.0 SEP 13.0 tb SEP CFLX SEP 1.5 SEP 4.5 SEP 31 SEP 100 tb SEP OFLX SEP 2.1 SEP 12.1 SEP 17 SEP 100 tb SEP NFLX SEP 8.9 SEP 18.9 SEP 100 tb Experiment 4.Therapeutic effect in an experimental local infection with anaerobic bacteria in granuloma pouches in rats Under ether anesthesia, male Wistar rats 7 weeks old were injected subcutaneously on the back with 20 ml of germ free air sterilized by membrane filtration, 0.45 pm pore size by means of a syringe. Continuously, an inflammatory reaction was induced by injecting one ml of sterile croton oil solution 1 in olive oil into the formed air pouch. After 2 days, the air was removed. On the eighth day, 0.5 ml of Bacteroides fragilis 2 culture 106 CFU ml were injected into bore granuloma pouches.Each compound was administered orally or subcutaneously at 2 hours after infection. Three animals were used for each drug group per experiment and 0, 6 and 24 hours after the administration of the compounds, samples of exudate were taken from the pouches to determine the number of viable bacteria. During experiment, intake of food and water was free. The results are shown in Table 5. It was known that the activity of the existing quinolonecarboxylic acid compounds against obligate anaerobic bacteria was very weak. However, the present compound showed much stronger antibacterial activity against anaerobic bacteria not only in vitro but also in vivo than the other quinolonecarboxylic acids. This property is also one of excellent characters of the present comound.As shown in Table 5, this experiment shows that the present compound is more effective than cefoxitin CFX , clindamycin CLDM and metronidazole MND usually used for treatment of anaerobic infections clinically. Table 5 Theraspeutic effect in an experimental local infection in granuloma pouches in rats EMI34.1 SEP Viable SEP cells SEP count SEP log SEP SEP ml tb SEP Drugs SEP 0 SEP hr SEP 6 SEP hr SEP 24 SEP hr tb SEP Control SEP 5.1 0.064 SEP 6.2 0.10 SEP 9.6 0.10 tb Example SEP 25 SEP 25mg kg, SEP p.o. SEP 4.6 0.31 SEP 4.5 0.15 tb CFX SEP 50mg kg, SEP p.o. SEP 3.9 0.25 SEP 6.3 0.31 tb CLDM SEP 25mg kg, SEP p.o. SEP 4.6 0.058 SEP 6.4 0.38 tb MND SEP 50mg kg, SEP p.o. SEP 5.2 0.10 SEP 5.7 0.60 tb SEP Control SEP 5.6 0 SEP 6.2 0.31 SEP 9.3 0.17 tb Ref.2 SEP 25mg kg, SEP p.o. SEP 5.1 0.21 SEP 4.5 0.55 tb Mean S.D. n 3 . , significantly different from control by paired T test P 0.05, P 0.01, respectively . Experiment 5. Acute toxicity in mouse Acute toxicity of the present compound was investigated in male mice and each drug was administered intravenously. LD50 value of the present compound is almost same as that of ciprofloxacin. Table 6 Acute toxicity in mouseEMI35.1 tb SEP Compound SEP LD50 SEP mg kg tb Example SEP 25 SEP 242 SEP 221 279 tb SEP CFLX SEP 231 SEP 212 255 tb i.v. Experiment 6. Subacute toxicity in dog Subacute toxicity study of the present compound was carried out in beagle dogs 10 weeks old, n 3 . To animals 20 mg kg day of the present compound for 8 days and after that 50 mg kg day for 7 days was administered orally. No remarkable changes in body weight and general conditions, and no abnormality with regard to hematological examination and serum biochemical analysis were observed.Experiment 7. Absorption, excretion and metabolism in animals 1 Rats The present compound and ciprofloxacin were administered orally to rats, at the dose of 10 mg kg, respectively, and then bloods were sampled at indicated time after administration. The drug concentrations in serum were measured by bioassay. Urinary and biliary excretion within 24 hours after administration were also determined by bioassay. The results are shown in Fig. 1 andTable 7. Serum levels of present compound were three times higher than that of ciprofloxacin. Similarly, urinary and biliary recovery of present compound were also 2.4 and 7 times higher than that of ciprofloxacin, respectively. Table 7 Urinary and biliary excretion Rats, 10 mg kg, p.o. EMI36.1 tb SEP Compound SEP Excretion SEP rate SEP SEP of SEP dose tb SEP Urine SEP Bile tb Example SEP 25 SEP 21.7 SEP 13.4 tb SEP CFLX SEP 8.9 SEP 1.9 tb 0 24 hours 2 Dogs A 2 mg dose of the present compound was administered to beagle dogs orally or intravenously, and the serum levels were measured by HPLC High performance liquid chromatography . The results are shown in Fig. 2. Serum levels of the present compound by oral route were almost equal to those by intravenous route, suggesting the excellent oral absorption of the present compound. Study of urinary metabolites indicates that the present compound may be hardly metabolized. EMI37.1 Fig. 1 Drug concentrations in serum Rat, 10 mg kg, p.o. EMI37.2 Fig. 2 Drug concentrations in serum Dog, 2 mg kg Experiment 8. Mutagenicity assay As for antibacterial agents, assessment of mutagenicity using bacteria is somewhat difficult because of their activity on the test bacteria. Then, in order to assess mutagenic activities at higher concentration, we selected a strain which showed resistant to test agents and also retained the properties of the parent test strain. Using this resistant test strain, it was possible to assess at 10 fold higher concentration compared with the parent strain. When reverse mutation assay using nalidixic acid resistantSalmonella typhimurium TA98 strain nalr was done with the present compound and ciprofloxacin, within measurable concentration, with and without the drug metabolic activation, ciprofloxacin induced 2 fold His revertant colonies compared with the solvent control, but the present compound exhibit no increment ofHis revertant colonies compared with the control Table 8 .These results suggested that ciprofloxacin might have a weak mutagenecity. Table 8 Mutagenic activity in S. typhimuriumEMI39.1 tb SEP TA98 SEP nalr tb SEP Ug plate SEP S9 mix SEP Example SEP 25 SEP CFLX tb His SEP revertants SEP per SEP plate tb SEP Control SEP SEP 27 SEP 27 tb SEP 0.001 tb SEP 0.005 SEP SEP 28 tb SEP 0.01 SEP SEP 29 tb SEP 0.05 SEP SEP 26 SEP 28 tb SEP 0.1 SEP SEP 16 SEP 44 tb SEP 0.5 SEP SEP 0 SEP 47 tb SEP 1.0 SEP SEP 55 tb SEP 5.0 SEP SEP 0 tb SEP 0.2 SEP 4NQQÚ SEP SEP 190 SEP 190 tb SEP Control SEP SEP 49 SEP 49 tb SEP 0.001 SEP tb SEP 0.005 SEP SEP 60 tb SEP 0.01 SEP SEP 48 tb SEP 0.05 SEP SEP 39 SEP 47 tb SEP 0.1 SEP SEP 6 SEP 76 tb SEP 0.5 SEP SEP 0 SEP 103 tb SEP 1.0 SEP SEP 30 tb SEP 5.0 SEP SEP 0 tb SEP 0.5 SEP 2AAê SEP SEP 277 SEP 277 tb Background growth was inhibited 1 4 Nitroquinoline l oxide 2 2 Aminoanthracene