# 2 AZOLYLPROPIONATE DERIVATIVES AND FUNGICIDES CONTAINING THE SAME

## Claims
Propionatderivat der allgemeinen Formel I

## Description
The present invention relates to a novel propionate derivative suitable for use as a nonmedical fungicide or germicide, especially for use as an agricultural fungicide. The present invention also relates to a nonmedical fungicide. It is disclosed, for example, in German Unexamined Patent Publication i.e., DOS Nos. 2908323.6 and 2908324.7 that triazole derivatives such as 2 phenyl 3,3 bis triazolyl propionic acid esters and 2 phenyl 3 triazolylpropenoic acid derivatives are fungicides with a curative effect against true mildews on fruit, vegetables and cereals and also in European Unexamined Patent Publication No. EP 104691A that pyridine derivatives such as 3 alkylthio 3 2,4 dichlorophenyl 2 3 pyridyl propionic acid esters are useful as fungicides against powdery mildews, blights and leaf spot. However, these triazole and pyridine derivatives are not sufficient to fulfill the desired effects, especially referring to the fungicidal spectra. Accordingly, the objects of the present invention are to provide novel compounds having the desired fungicidal or antibacterial activities. Another object of the present invention is to provide effective nonmedical, especially agricultural fungicides. Other objects and advantages of the present invention will be apparent from the following description. In accordance with the present invention, there is provided a propionate derivative having the general formula I In accordance with the present invention, there is also provided a nonmedical fungicide comprising, as an effective ingredient, the propionate derivative having the above mentioned general formula I or the agriculturally acceptable salt thereof, or the metal complex thereof having the above mentioned general formula II . According to the present invention, there are provided novel propionate derivatives having the above mentioned general formula I . In the general formula I , when R¹ represents substituted phenyl, the R¹ groups are those substituted with 1 to 3 substituents, preferably 1 or 2 substituents, which may be the same or different and which are selected from Cl, F, OCH₃ , and CH₃. Typical examples of such substituents are 4 fluorophenyl, 4 chlorophenyl, 3,4 dichlorophenyl, 2,4 dichlorophenyl, and 2 chloro 6 fluorophenyl. The most preferable substituent R The substituents R The substituents R The acid addition salts of the propionate derivatives I are those which are formed from the propionate derivatives I and strong acids. Examples of such strong acids are hydrochloric acid, hydrobromic acid, sulfuric acid, oxalic acid, and sulfonic acid. The metal complexes of the propionate derivatives I are those which are composed of the propionate derivatives I and the inorganic acid salts of metals such as copper, cobalt, zinc, nickel, iron, and silver. The metal complexes can be represented by, for example, the following general formula I The novel propionate derivatives having the general formula I according to the present invention can be prepared as follows Thus, typically, olefins having the general formula II are allowed to react with a thiol R The olefin II can be conventionally prepared in accordance with the following reaction scheme In the typical reaction, the aldehyde III and the compound IV are heated in the presence of anhydrous potassium carbonate at a temperature of 50 C to 90 C in acetic anhydride. Alternatively, the olefin II can be prepared as follows Thus, the compound V can be prepared from the aldehyde III and the compound IV by using a suitable base e.g., a catalytic amount of sodium methoxide, sodium ethoxide, or potassium t butoxide . The resultant compound V is reacted with trifluoroacetic anhydride in anhydrous tetrahydrofuran at room temperature to the boiling point of the solvent. The resultant compound II can be isolated and purified in any conventional manner. The compounds represented by the general formula I have two asymmetric centers and are present as two pairs of diastereomers. The acids capable of forming the agriculturally acceptable nontoxic salts i.e., acid addition salts of the compounds according to the present invention are strong acids such as hydrochloric acid, hydrobromic acid, sulfuric acid, oxalic acid, and sulfonic acid. The desired salts can be formed in any conventional manner. For example, an equimolar amounts of the free base and the desired acid in the solution thereof can be mixed. When the resultant salt is insoluble, it can be separated by filtration or evaporation of the solvent. The metal complexes of the propionate derivative having the above mentioned general formula I can be prepared by reacting the compound I with a metal salt in an inert solvent such as ethanol, methanol, propanol, chloroform, acetone, acetonitrile, and diethyl ether. Thus, the compound I is dissolved in the inert organic solvent and the desired metal salt is then added, followed by stirring at room temperature. As a result, the desired metal complex can be obtained. Examples of the cationic ions are aluminum, manganese, cobalt, iron, nickel, copper, zinc, silver, and cadmium ions. Examples of the counter anions are chlorine, bromine, iodine, sulfate, phosphate, nitrate, and carbonate, acetate ions. The formation of the complex salt is determined by an elemental analysis and atomic absorption method. The compounds I have two asymmetric carbon atoms and, therefore, four stereo isomers are present. These isomers and the complex salts thereof are within the scope of the present invention. The preferred metal complexes of the propionate derivatives are those having the above mentioned formula I wherein R According to the present invention, the propionate derivatives having the general formula I and the agriculturally acceptable salts thereof as well as the metal complexes of the propionate derivatives having the general formula II can be formulated, together with any additives including agriculturally acceptable diluents and carriers conventionally used in agricultural fungicides,to give agricultural fungicides. These fungicides can be advantageously used for treating plants or seeds, which have been infected by fungi. The propionate derivatives having the general formula I exhibit preventive, therapeutic, or systemic fungicidal activities against various phytopathogens. Examples of such phytopathogenes are powdery mildew of wheats When the propionate derivatives having the general formula I are used as agricultural or horticultural fungicides, the compounds may be directly used. However, the present compounds can be formulated with solid carriers, liquid carriers, surfactants, and other conventional additives to form various forms of preparations such as emulsions, wettable powder, suspensions, and tablets. The present propionate derivatives can be formulated as an effective ingredient into the preparations in an amount of 0.1 to 99.9 by weight, preferably 0.2 to 80 by weight. Examples of solid carriers usable in the formulation are finely divided powder or particles of kaolin clay, attapulgite clay, bentonite, acid clay, pyrophyllite, talc, diatomaceous earth, calcite, and white carbon. Examples of liquid carriers are aromatic hydrocarbons such as xylene and naphthalene alcohols such as isopropanol, ethylene glycol, and cellosolve ketones such as acetone, cyclohexanone, and isophorone vegetable oil such as bean oil and cotton seed oil dimethyl sulfoxide and acetonitrile. Examples of the surfactants usable as an emulsifier, dispersing agent and or wetting and spreading agent are anionic surfactants such as alkyl sulfate salts, alkyl aryl sulfonate salts, dialkylsulfo succinate salts, polyoxyethylene alkyl aryl ether phosphate salts, and napthalene sulfonic acid formaldehyde condensates and nonionic surfactants such as polyoxyethylene polyoxypropylene block copolymers, and sorbitan fatty acid esters. Examples of the formulation acids are lignin sulfonate, alginates, polyvinyl alcohol, gum arabic, carboxymethyl cellulose, and acidic isopropyl phosphate. It should be also noted that the active component of the present fungicide can be also formulated into the preparations together with one or more agents such as various conventional insecticides, bactericides, fungicides, herbicides, plant growth regulators, miticides, nematocides, attractants, repellents, nutrients, fertilizers, and soil structure conditioning agents. Thus, these preparations are expected to exhibit various wide effects. The present invention will be further explained by, but is by no means limited to, the following Synthetic Examples, Formulation Examples, and Test Examples. In Synthetic Examples, m, q, t, d, and s, in the NMR data represent multiplet, quartet, triplet, doublet, and singlet, respectively and the IR represents the specific absorption bands cm Synthesis of ethyl 3 2,4 dichlorophenyl 2 1 imidazolyl cinnamate i.e., Starting Compound of Synthetic Example 2 A 45 g amount of 2,4 dichlorobenzaldehyde and 39.8 g of ethyl 2 imidazolyl acetate were added to 300 ml of toluene, followed by the addition of 2 g of potassium tert butoxide. The mixture was stirred under reflux for 18 hours. Thereafter, the solvent was distilled off in vacuo and n hexane was added to the residue. The oily residue was gradually solidified and the n hexane was removed by decantation. Acetone was added to the residue to obtain white crystals. The resultant crystals were separated by suction filtration. The yield of white crystals was 44.7 g. The product obtained above was suspended in anhydrous tetrahydrofuran and 35 g of trifluoroacetic anhydride was dropwise added thereto. The mixture was heated under reflux for 5 hours. The mixture was cooled to room temperature and the insoluble matter was separated by filtration. The resultant filtrate was poured into a large amount of water and was neutralized with a saturated aqueous sodium carbonate solution. The soluton was extracted with dichloromethane and was dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate, followed by distilling off the solvent. The residue was then subjected to silica gel chromatography and was eluted with a 9 1 mixture of chloromethane and acetone. The desired product was obtained in the form of a pale yellow oil, which was gradually solidified Yield 34.2 g . The analytical results are as follows Synthesis of ethyl 3 2,4 dichlorophenyl 3 ethylthio 2 1 imidazolyl propionate i.e., Compound No. 8 A 6.8 g amount of sodium ethylate was dissolved in 100 ml of anhydrous diethyl ether and 6.2 g of ethanethiol was dropwise added thereto at room temperature. After the dropwise addition, the mixture was stirred at room temperature for 2 hours and, thereafter, 2.96 g of ethyl 3 2,4 dichlorophenyl 2 1 imidazolyl cinnamate was gradually added. After stirring the mixture at room temperature for 24 hours, 50 ml of water was added thereto and the mixture was stirred for 10 minutes, followed by extracting with ether. After washing the extract with water, the extract was dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate and the ether was distilled off. The resultant residue was subjected to silica gel chromatography and was then eluted with a 95 5 mixture of chloroform and methanol. The desired product was obtained in the form of a pale oil at a yield of 2.0 g 54 . The analytical results are as follows. Synthesis of tert butyl 3 2,4 dichlorophenyl 2 1 imidazolyl cinnamate i.e., Starting Compound of Synthetic Example 4 A 17.6 g amount of 2,4 dichlorobenzaldehyde and 14 g of anhydrous potassium carbonate were added to 250 ml of acetic anhydride. Then, 18.2 g of tert butyl 2 imidazolyl acetate was added, in a limited amount, to the mixture, while stirring at room temperature. The resultant mixture was stirred at a temperature of 60 C for 3 hours. After the reaction, the reaction mixture was gradually added to warm water having a temperature of 50 C and the mixture was stirred at the same temperature for a further 30 minutes. The reaction mixture was cooled to room temperature and the resultant mixture was neutralized with anhydrous potassium carbonate. Thereafter, the mixture was extracted with dichloromethane and, after washing with water, the mixture was dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate. The solvent was distilled off in vacuo and the residue was purified by silica gel column chromatography. The desired product was eluted with a 9 1 mixture of dichloromethane and acetone. Thus, the desired product was obtained in the form of a yellow oil, which was gradually solidified. The yield was 18.6 g and the analytical results are as follows Synthesis of tert butyl 3 2,4 dichlorophenyl 3 isopropylthio 2 1 imidazolyl propionate i.e., Compound No. 25 A 3.39 g amount of tert butyl 3 2,4 dichlorophenyl 2 1 imidazolyl cinnamate was dissolved in 50 ml of ethanol and, after 1 g of piperidine was dropwise added, 0.76 g of isopropyl mercaptan was added thereto. The mixture was stirred at a temperature of 60 C to 70 C for 24 hours. After the reaction, the reaction mixture was poured into a large amount of water and was extracted with methylene chloride. After washing with water, the extract was dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate. The solvent was distilled off in vacuo. The residue was purified by silica gel column chromatography. The desired product in the form of a yellow oil was obtained by eluting with a 3 2 mixture of n hexane and ethyl acetate. The yield was 2.85 g 69 . The analytical results are as follows Synthesis of ethyl 3 2,4 dichlorophenyl 3 methylthio 2 1 imidazolyl propionate i.e., Compound No. 73 A 6.8 9 0.1 mol amount of sodium ethylate was suspended in 200 ml of diethyl ether and, then, 5.28 g 0.11 mol of methanethiol was bubbled into the mixture. The mixture was stirred at room temeprature for one hour. After 31.1 g 0.1 mol of ethyl 3 2,4 dichlorophenyl 2 1 imidazolyl cinnamate was added, in a limited amount, at room temperature for 18 hours. After the reaction, 100 ml of water was added to the reaction mixture and, then, the mixture was thoroughly mixed. The mixture was allowed to separate into the two phases. The aqueous phase was extracted, twice, with 50 ml of diethyl ether and the combined ether phases were washed with water. The resultant ether extract was dried over anhydrous magnesium sulfate and the solvent was distilled off in vacuo. The resultant residue was subjected to silica gel column chromatography and eluted with a 1 1 mixture of ethyl acetate and n hexane. The desired product was obtained in the form of a pale yellow oil. The yield was 18.3 g 50.9 . The analytical results are as follows Synthesis of n propyl 3 2,4 dichlorophenyl 3 methylthio 2 1 imidazolyl propionate i.e., Compound No. 74 A 4.8 g 0.1 mol amount of methanethiol was bubbled into 100 ml of propanol at room temperature and, then, 8.5 g 0.1 mol of piperidine was added thereto. Thereafter, 32.5 g 0.1 mol of n propyl 3 2,4 dichlorophenyl 2 1 imidazolyl cinnamate was added thereto and the mixture was heated at a boiling point of the solvent for 24 hours. After cooling to room temperature, the reaction mixture was added to a large amount of water and the mixture was extracted, three times, with 100 ml of diethyl ether. The extract was dried over anhydrous magnesium sulfate. The solvent was distilled off in vacuo. The residue was subjected to silica gel column chromatography and eluted with a 1 1 mixture of n hexane and ethyl acetate. Thus, the desired product was obtained at a yield of 17.9 g 48 . NMR Various propionate derivatives were prepared in the same manner as mentioned above. The results are shown in the following Table 1, wherein, in the column R The typical metal complexes of the propionate derivatives are as shown in Table 2, wherein n represents the member of the molecule having the general formula I . The elemental analysis data of the metal complexes 5 listed in Table 2 are shown in Table 3. The typical synthesis of these compounds are shown below. Synthesis of Compound No. 75 A 3.3 g amount of methyl 3 2,4 dichlorophenyl 2 1 imidazolyl 3 methylthiopropionate obtained above i.e., Compound No. 72 was dissolved in 20 ml of ethanol and a solution of 0.9 g of The analytical results are as follows Synthesis of Compound No. 76 A 3.5 g amount of ethyl 3 2,4 dichlorophenyl 2 1 imidazolyl 3 methylthiopropionate obtained above i.e., Compound No. 73 was dissolved in 10 ml of ethanol and a solution of 1.4 g of The analytical data are as follows Synthesis of Compound No. 77 A 3.5 g amount of ethyl 3 2,4 dichlorophenyl 2 1 imidazolyl 3 methylthiopropionate was obtained above i.e., Compound No. 73 was dissolved in 20 ml of ethanol and a solution of 1 g of The analytical data are as follows Synthesis of Compound No. 82 A 1.7 g amount of ethyl 3 2,4 dichlorophenyl 2 1 imidazolyl 3 methylthiopropionate obtained above i.e., Compound No. 73 was dissolved in 10 ml of ethanol and a solution of 0.4 g of zinc chloride in 10 ml of ethanol was dropwise added at room temperature while stirring. After the dropwise addition, the mixture was stirred at room temperature for 3 hours. After the reaction, 10 ml of cooled water was added thereto. The resultant crystals were recovered by suction filtration, followed by vacuum drying. Thus, the desired ethyl 3 2,4 dichlorophenyl 2 1 imidazolyl 3 methylthio propionate at a yield of 1.8 g. The analytical data are as follows The propionate derivatives I and the metal complexes thereof I are effective for controlling a wide variety of diseases of various agricultural and garden crops. Examples of such diseases and microorganisms are as follows. Powder fungicides having the following compositions were prepared by mixing the ingredients listed below at room temperature. The powder fungicides thus obtained were evaluated in the Test Examples below. Wettable powder fungicides having the following compositions were prepared by mixing the ingredients listed below at room temperature. Emulsion fungicides having the following compositions were prepared by mixing the ingredients listed below at room temperature. The nonmedical fungicide according to the present invention can be preferably used in an amount of 50 to 1000 g, in terms of an active ingredient, per 10 are a when the fungicide is sprayed to the field having growing crops thereon and 0.5 to 8 kg, in terms of an active ingredient, per 10 are a , when the fungicide is applied into the soil. It should be, of course, noted that the amount of the active ingredient depends upon the kinds of crops, diseases, and damages, seasons, weathers, and the preparation forms of the fungicides. The nonmedical fungicides according to the present invention were evaluated in the following Test Examples. A sample solution diluted to a predetermined concentration was uniformly sprayed on the developed leaves of pear trees variety Nijyusseiki with an amount of 20 ml per 5 leaves, which were dried in a room. After air drying, conidia of The results are shown in Table 4. A sample solution containing a predetermined concentration of the active compound was sprayed on cotyledons of a kidney bean variety Masterpiece , which were dried in a room. After air drying the mycelia of Rhizoctonia solani IA grown on a PDA culture was inoculated after punching with a 8 mm cork borer. The incubation was carried out at a temperature of 28 C and an R.H. of 100 for 3 days under dark conditions. The infected area was measured. Five tests were carried out in each run. The results are shown in Table 5. A sample liquid agent containing a predetermined amount of the active solution was sprayed on rice seedlings variety Jyukkoku at 3 leaf stage in a pot with the volume of 200 liter 10 a and the treated rice seedlings were air dried. After air drying, a spore suspension previously prepared in such a way that 40 conidia of rice blast fungus were present in a visual area of a 100 magnification microscope was inoculated by spraying. Immediately, the sprayed rice seedlings were allowed to stand under a dark condition of a temperature of 23 C and an R.H. of 100 . After 48 hour inoculation, the rice seedlings were transferred to a green house and, after 10 days from the inocuration, the degree of the infection was measured. The protection value was calculated as follows. Three tests were carried out in each run. The results are shown in Table 6. A Immediately after inoculation, the sprayed wheat seedlings were allowed to stand under a dark condition at a temperature of 23 C in an R.H. of 100 for 28 hours. After 28 hours, the wheat seedlings were transferred to a green house and, after 3 days from the inocuration, a sample fungicide solution containing a predetermined amount of the active compound was sprayed on the wheat seedlings with the volume of 200 liter 10 a. After 10 days from the inoculation, the degree of the infection was calculated as follows. Five tests were carried out in each run. The results are shown in Table 7. A sample solution containing a predetermined amount of the active compound was sprayed on cucumber seedlings variety Sagami Hanjiro at 2 leaf stage in a pot with the volume of 200 liter 10 a and the treated cucumber seedlings were air dried in a room. After air drying, the treated cucumber seedlings was allowed to stand in a green house to naturally infect with the spores of After 14 days, the degree of the infection was calculated according to the following criteria. Five tests were carried out in each run and ten leaves were evaluated. The results are shown in Table 8. A sample solution containing a predetermined amount of the active compound was sprayed on cucumber seedlings variety Suhyoo at 3 leaf stage in a pot at a volume of 200 liter 10 a and the treated cucumber seedlings were air dried for 24 hours in a room. After air drying, a spore suspension was prepared in such a way that 100 conidia of The results are shown in Table 9. A sample solution containing a predetermined amount of the active compound was sprayed on rice seedlings variety Jyukkoku at 5 leaf stage in a pot at a volume of 200 liter 10 a and the treated rice seedlings were air dried in a room. After air drying, a spore suspension previously prepared in such a way that 10 conidia of Immediately, the sprayed rice seedlings were allowed to stand under a dark condition at a temperature of 28 C and an R.H. of 100 . After 24 hours, the rice seedlings were transferred to a green house and, after 7 days from the inoculation, the degree of the infection was measured. The protection value was calculated as follows. Five tests were carried out in each run. The results are shown in Table 10. A 10 ml amount of a potato agar medium containing a predetermined concentration of each active ingredient was poured into a petri dish. After solidifying, the tip portion of the flora of each test microorganism previously incubated on a plate culture medium, which was punched with a 8 cm cork borer, was inoculated on the culture medium containing the active ingredient. The culture medium thus obtained was allowed to stand in a constant temperature room for predetermined days. Thereafter, the growth of mycelium of the microorganism was measured and the MIC was determined. Four tests were carried out in each run. The microorganisms used are as follows. The tests for microorganisms A to G were carried out at a temperature of 25 C for 5 days, and the test for microorganism H was carried out at a temperature of 20 C for 20 days. The results are shown in Table 11. A 10 ml amount of a potato agar medium containing a predetermined concentration of each active ingredient was poured into a petri dish. After solidifying, the tip portion of the flora of each test microorganism previously incubated on a plate culture medium, which was punched with a 8 cm cork borer, was inoculated on the culture medium containing the active ingredient. The culture medium thus obtained was allowed to stand in a constant temperature room for predetermined days. Thereafter, the growth of mycelium of the microorganism was measured and the MIC was determined. Four tests were carried out in each run. The microorganisms used are as follows. The tests for microorganisms A to G were carried out at a temperature of 25 C for 5 days, and the test for microorganism H was carried out at a temperature of 20 C for 20 days. The results are shown in Table 12. A sample solution diluted to a predetermined concentration was uniformly sprayed on the developed leaves of pear trees variety Nijyusseiki with a volume of 20 ml per 5 leaves, which were dried in a room. After air drying, conidia of The results are shown in Table 13. A sample solution containing a predetermined concentration of the active compound was sprayed on cotyledons of a kidney bean variety After air drying, the mycelia of The results are shown in Table 14. A sample solution containing a predetermined amount of the active compound was sprayed on wheat seedlings variety Nohrin 61 at 2 leaf stage in a pot with the volume of 200 liter 10 a and the treated wheat seedlings were air dried. After air drying, a spore suspension previously prepared in such a way that 20 spores of Immediately after inoculation, the sprayed wheat seedlings were allowed to stand under a dark condition at a temperature of 23 C and an R.H. of 100 for 28 hours. After 28 hours, the wheat seedlings were transferred to a green house and, after 10 days from the inoculation, the degree of the infection was calculated as follows. Five tests were carried out in each run. The results are shown in Table 15. A sample solution agent containing a predetermined amount of the active compound was sprayed on cucumber seedlings variety Sagami Hanjiro at 2 leaf stage in a pot at a volume of 200 liter 10 a and the treated cucumber seedlings were air dried in a room. After air drying, the treated cucumber seedlings were allowed to stand in a green house to naturally infect with the conidia of After 14 days, the degree of the infection was calculated according to the following criteria. Five tests were carried out in each run and ten leaves were evaluated. The results are shown in Table 16. A sample solution containing a predetermined amount of the active compound was sprayed on cucumber seedlings variety Suhyo at 3 leaf stage in a pot at a volume of 200 liter 10 a and the treated cucumber seedlings were air dried for 24 hours in a room. After air drying, a spore suspension was prepared in such a way that 100 conidia of The results are shown in Table 17. A sample solution diluted to a predetermined concentration was uniformly sprayed on the four developed leaves of eggplant seedlings variety Senryo 2 in a pot with an amount of 10 ml per 4 leaves and the treated eggplant seedlings were dried for 24 hours in a room. After the 24 hour air drying, a suspension of zoospore of The results are shown in Table 18. A sample solution diluted to a predetermined concentration was uniformly sprayed on tomato seedlings variety Oogata Fukuju at 5 leaf stage in a pot with an amount of 200 liter 10 a and the treated tomato seedlings were dried for 24 hours in a room. After the 24 hour air drying, a zoospore suspension of The results are shown in Table 19.