# VEHICLE ANTI SKID AIR BRAKING SYSTEMS

## Claims
Antiblockier Fahrzeugdruckluftbremsanlage mit einer zu einem Vorratsbehälter 5 führenden Druckluftquelle, mit einem einer Radbremse zugeordneten Betriebsbremszylinder 6 , mit einem Relaisventil 3 zum Steuern der Verbindung zwischen dem Betriebsbremszylinder 6 und dem Vorratsbehälter 5 einerseits und der Atmosphäre andererseits, mit einem auf die Radbremse einwirkenden Federspeicherbremszylinder 6 , der mit dem Vorratsbehälter 5 über einen Federspeicherbremskreis 7 verbunden ist, in welchem ein Feststellbremsventil 8 zum Trennen des Federspeicherbremszylinders 6 von dem Vorratsbehälter 5 und zum Verbinden mit der Atmosphäre zwecks Bestätigung der Feststellbremse angeordnet ist, mit einem über ein Bremsventil betätigbaren Betriebsbremskreis, der zu dem Relaisventil 3 führt, mit einem Modulationsventil, welches dem Relaisventil 3 zugeordnet ist und auf dieses in Abhängigkeit eines von einem Sensor gelieferten Blockiersignals im Sinne einer Modulation des Drucks in dem Betriebsbremszylinder 6 einwirkt, und mit einem ein Rückschlagventil 27, 28 aufweisenden Steuerventil 9 , welches in einer ersten Normalstellung im wesentlichen eine Rückströmung von Druckluft von dem Betriebsbremszylinder 6 in den Vorratsbehälter 5 verhindert, wobei das Steuerventil 9 ein Gehäuse 14 und einen Hohlkolben 19 aufweist, der gleitend und dichtend in einer Bohrung 15 des Gehäuses 14 gelagert ist, das Rückschlagventil einen auf dem Hohlkolben 19 angeordneten Ventilkörper 27 aufweist, der durch eine Feder 30 in Richtung auf einen Ventilsitz 28 belastet ist, der Ventilsitz 28 einen Durchlaß 29 umgibt, der sich axial durch ein Ende des Hohlkolbens 19 hindurch erstreckt, ein Ende der Bohrung 15 in dauernder Verbindung zu einem ersten Gehäuseanschluß 25 steht, der mit dem Vorratsbehälter 5 verbunden ist, und wobei der Innenraum 23 des Hohlkolbens 19 über einen zweiten Gehäuseanschluß 24 mit dem Federspeicherbremszylinder in Verbindung steht, dadurch gekennzeichnet, daß das Rückschlagventil 27, 28 in einer zweiten Schaltstellung eine Rückströmung von Druckluft aus dem Federspeicherbremszylinder 6 in den Vorratsbehälter 5 zuläßt, daß das Steuerventil 9 von der ersten Stellung in eine zweite Schaltstellung in Abhängigkeit vom Auftreten eines Steuerdruckabfalls unter einem festgelegten Wert umschaltet, und daß das eine Ende der Bohrung 15 mit einer Ventilsteuerstange 36 versehen ist, die sich durch den Durchlaß 29 hindurch erstreckt und den Ventilkörper 27 von einem Sitz abhebt, wenn der Hohlkolben 19 in Richtung auf die Ventilsteuerstange 36 verfährt.

## Description
This invention relates to a vehicle anti skid braking system, particularly but not exclusively to an air braking system for the trailer of an articulated road vehicle. The invention relates in particular to a vehicle anti skid air braking system of the kind which comprises a supply of compressed air connected to an air reservoir, a service wheel brake actuator operatively connected to a wheel brake, a relay valve assembly controlling communication of the service wheel brake actuator on the one hand with the reservoir and on the other hand with atmosphere, a spring brake actuator operatively connected to a wheel brake and connected to the reservoir by way of a spring brake supply circuit which includes a spring brake operating valve capable of isolating the spring brake actuator from the reservoir and connecting it to atmosphere to apply the spring brake, a service air supply controlled by a brake pedal and connected to the relay valve assembly for controlling the operation thereof, and a modulator valve associated with the relay valve assembly and adapted in response to a skid signal from a skid sensor to operate the relay valve assembly so as to modulate the pressure applied to the service wheel brake actuator. Such a braking system will hereinafter be referred to as a braking system of the kind set forth . Usually the service wheel brake actuator will be combined with the spring brake actuator as a combined service and spring brake actuator. The spring brake operating valve will usually be a manually operable park valve which is operated to apply the spring brake actuator when the vehicle is parked. When the braking system is applied to the trailer of an articulated vehicle, the relay valve assembly will usually be of the type known to the brake engineer as a relay emergency valve , which is a valve that differs from a basic relay valve in that the inlet valve seat is carried by a piston which moves in response to failure of the compressed air supply, to open the inlet valve and apply the service brake actuator, the charging line from the compressed air supply to the reservoir being routed through the relay valve for this purpose. Such a system must conform to ECE Regulation 13 or EEC Directive 71 320. Included in these regulations is the need for the trailer to pass an energy consumption test. The test is intended to ensure that the trailer is provided with adequate air capacity. Prior to this test, the air reservoir is fully charged and no replenishing of the reservoir is permitted during the test. In the case of a tandem trailer, which is not fitted with spring brakes, the reservoir pressure could fall to 2.5 bar towards the end of the test. As the emergency relay valve operates typically below this figure, it is likely that the test will be completed without the brakes being locked on. If the brakes do lock on or drag during the test then this will normally result in failure. However, when the emergency relay valve has an associated modulator valve to provide anti skid modulation, there is a substantial loss of air pressure in the reservoir in supplying the relay valve during the energy consumption test, and since the spring brake actuator is also connected to the reservoir, air is also lost from the spring brake circuit at the same rate. As the application of the spring brakes commences typically at 4.5 bar, the brakes could be dragging or locked on considerably sooner that the case of a trailer not fitted with spring brakes. A possible solution to this would be to equip the trailer with a greater capacity air reservoir but this would incur greater expense and could provide installation difficulties. Solutions to similar Problems are also found in the prior art. U.S. A 4 058 349 which corresponds to the preamble of claim 1 shows an anti skid air braking system of the kind set forth, which is concerned with ensuring that the spring brakes do not operate while the anti skid means is operating. It has a holding valve with inlet and exhaust valves controlling communication of the spring brakes with the reservoir and atmosphere respectively. The spring brakes are held off when the reservoir pressure is above a first value, with the exhaust valve closed and the inlet valve open, and a one way valve is provided to prevent return flow from the spring brakes to the reservoir, to avoid pressure leakage out of the spring brakes. The brakes are applied when the reservoir pressure is below a second, lower value, with the exhaust valve open and the inlet valve closed the one way valve remains closed. This ensures that the spring brakes remain released when the anti skid means is operating. The disadvantage of this lies in the relatively complicated construction of the holding valve. U.S. A 4 191 428 shows an air braking system which does not include anti skid means, but which is concerned with ensuring that the spring brakes are held off at low operating pressures. It has a holding valve, located in the line between the reservoir and the spring brake actuator, and comprising a one way valve which normally prevents air flow from the actuator to the reservoir, but is disabled when the reservoir pressure falls below a given value, to allow such return flow, so that the spring brake is applied. The valve has a seat on a differential piston, co operating with a disc valve member, and so is quite simple, but may not operate consistently when it is disabled, as it is operated solely by the pressure differential. According to the present invention a braking system of the kind set forth includes a control valve assembly with a one way valve which in a first normal condition acts substantially to prevent return flow of air from the spring brake actuator to the reservoir, the control valve assembly comprising a housing with a hollow piston slidably sealed in a bore therein, with the one way valve comprising a one way valve member biassed against a valve seat on the piston by resilient means, the valve seat surrounding a port extending axially through one end of the piston, one end of the bore being connected to a first housing port for connection to the reservoir, and the interior of the piston being connected to a second housing port for connection to the spring brake actuator, and is characterised in that the one way valve in a second disabled condition is operative to permit return flow of air from the spring brake actuator to the reservoir through the one way valve itself, the control valve assembly changing from the first to the second condition in response to a drop in a control pressure below a predetermined value, and the said one end of the bore is provided with a valve control pin extending through the port and adapted to unseat the valve member when the piston is urged towards the control pin. The predetermined value of pressure can be chosen such that the control valve assembly remains in the first condition as the reservoir pressure falls during the previously mentioned energy consumption test, but that for severe loss of reservoir pressure the control valve assembly will assume the second condition, thereby venting the spring brake actuator air to the failed reservoir to apply the spring brake. Furthermore, the valve assembly has a simple construction, and operates consistently, since when the valve is disabled it is opened positively by the control pin. The control pressure may simply be the reservoir pressure, or a function of the difference between the reservoir pressure and the spring brake pressure. In one preferred arrangement the hollow piston is urged towards the control pin by a further resilient means which bears against the housing, and the opposite end of the bore from the control pin is vented to atmosphere, the interior of the piston being connected to the second housing port by way of a radial passage in the piston located axially between two axially spaced seals sealing the piston in the bore. The further resilient means then preferably comprises a coiled compression spring of which the loading is adjustable by a screw threaded abutment member accessible from the exterior of the housing. In another preferred arrangement the housing bore is of stepped outline with the control pin in the larger diameter end, and the smaller diameter end of the bore being connected to the second port, the piston being of differential outline and sealed in both bore portions, with the interior of the piston communicating with the smaller diameter bore portion, such that the larger end of the piston is exposed to the pressure at the first port, and the smaller end is exposed to the pressure at the second port. With this arrangement metering of air from the second port to the first port can be arranged to occur when the pressure difference between the first and second ports has exceeded the predetermined value, and the valve then acts as a pressure proportioning valve in controlling the reduction in the spring brake actuator pressure in response to falling reservoir pressure. The control valve assembly may be incorporated in the spring brake supply circuit between the spring brake operating valve and the reservoir, or between the spring brake operating valve and the spring brake actuator. Some embodiments of the invention will now be described, by way of example only, with reference to the accompanying drawings in which With reference to Figure 1, the so called emergency line 1, of the trailer of an articulated vehicle is connected by way of a first flexible hose extending between the tractor and trailer to a compressed air generator mounted on the tractor, and the so called service line 2 of the trailer is connected by way of a similar flexible hose to a supply line of the tractor which leads from the pedal operated service valve in the tractor cab. The valve assembly 3 to which both the emergency line 1 and service line 2 are connected is a combined modulator and relay emergency valve of known type. It is a relay valve of the kind in which a relay piston or diaphragm is exposed on one side to the fluid pressure from the service line, but as modulated by a solenoid operated two way three port modulator valve under the control of skid signals from a skid sensor associated in known manner with the trailer wheels, the relay piston operating a normally open exhaust valve and a normally closed inlet valve, the inlet valve seat being provided on an emergency piston which is subject to emergency line pressure. Typical relay emergency valves are described at pages 224 to 232 of Air Brake Technology second edition, 1982 by M.N. Homewood, and a suitable valve 3 for the present circuit would be produced by adding a solenoid operated modulator valve to the service brake valve port of such a relay valve. The emergency line 1 communicates freely and continuously through valve 3 with a line 4 connected to a trailer reservoir 5. Each trailer wheel has an associated tandem service brake spring brake actuator 6 to operate the brake shoes by means of respective wedge mechanisms. As is well known, each tandem actuator 6 includes tandem pistons or diaphragms, bounded respectively by service brake chambers and spring brake chambers. Pressure applied through the service delivery lines, not shown, to the service brake chambers of the actuators results in application of the brakes. The force of a spring acting on one piston of each actuator is normally counteracted by the pressure applied to the spring brake chambers through the spring brake lines 7 fed from reservoir 5 by way of a park valve 8 and a spring brake one way control valve assembly 9. The park valve 8 is a two way three port valve which permits the spring brakes to be applied by isolating the connection from valve assembly 9 and venting lines 7 to atmosphere. A manoeuvering shuttle valve 10 in the emergency line 1 also has a connection 11 to the line connecting the valves 8 and 9, and permits the spring brakes to be held out of operation when it is required to manoeuvre a trailer without a tractor. A differential protection shuttle valve 12 and a quick release valve 13 are provided for the usual reasons. Figure 2 shows a suitable spring brake one way control valve assembly 9 for use in the system of Figure 1. The housing of the valve comprises a body 14 provided with a stepped bore 15, and an end cap 16 which closes the larger diameter portion 17 of bore 15 and is sealed to the body 14 by an O ring 18. A hollow piston 19 is slidably sealed in bore portion 17 by a pair of axially spaced seals 20, 21 between which a radial port 22 in the piston provides permanent communication between the interior 23 of piston 19 and a housing port 24. Port 24 is connected in use to the spring brake actuators 7, as shown in Figure 1, through park valve 8. The cap 16 has a port 25, which is connected in use to reservoir 5, and which communicates with a chamber 26 in bore portion 17 bounding the upper end, in the drawing, of piston 19. A poppet valve member 27 is engageable with a valve seat 28 to define the one way valve. The seat 28 is provided on frusto conical internal walls of the piston 19 which lead from an axial passage 29 in the upper end of the piston. Poppet valve member 27 is urged towards seat 28 by a pre loaded coiled compression spring 30 which reacts against a spigotted plug 31 sealingly retained in the lower end of the piston by a circlip 32. The piston 19 itself is biassed upwardly in bore portion 17 by a pre loaded coiled compression spring 33 which acts between the underside of circlip 32 and a dished abutment disc 34 engaged by an adjuster screw 35, the outer end of which is accessible from the exterior of the body 14 to enable the loading of spring 33 to be adjusted, in order to adjust the control pressure at which the poppet valve 27 is unseated by a control pin 36. Control pin 36 is secured in a drilling in cap 16 and extends axially through passage 29, so as to unseat poppet valve member 27 from seat 28 when the piston has been urged upwards, as shown, from its normal position. The operation of the control valve assembly 9 will now be described. When the vehicle is first started up air is supplied to reservoir 5 from emergency line 1 by way of valves 10 and 3 and line 4, and the spring brake actuator chambers are charged from the reservoir 5 by way of valve 9, valve 8 and valves 12 and 13 and lines 7. The piston 19 is initially in its upper position, as shown, by virtue of the spring 33. The valve member 27 is held open by pin 36, and air flows freely from the reservoir to the spring brakes, by way of port 25, chamber 26, passage 29, open valve seat 28, interior chamber 23, radial port 22 and port 24. The piston 19 is progressively forced downwards in bore portion 17 against the force of spring 33 by pressure building up in chamber 26. The pressure differential across the valve member 27, which is determined by the pre load of spring 30, is sufficient to open the valve and allow air to continue to flow to the spring brakes. The pressures on both sides of the one way valve reach their maximum values with respect to atmosphere when reservoir 5 is fully charged. The spring brake pressure will lag behind the reservoir pressure slightly, because of the differential across the valve 9, produced by the force in the light spring 30 and the area of the valve member 27. The one way valve will then close. The charging up of the reservoir and spring brake chambers is represented in Figure 3 by the line C, these being fully charged at point D. If an energy consumption test is now performed, as previously described, in which the emergency line 1 is closed, and the modulator valve is successively operated to cycle the relay valve 3, the pressure in reservoir 5 falls. The pressure in the chamber 26 also starts to decay, reducing the force holding the piston 19 against the spring 33, so the piston 19 starts to rise. As the piston 19 rises, the valve member 27 first contacts the pin 36, and then, following a further fall in reservoir pressure, the valve member 27 is moved off its seat 28 to open the one way valve. Until the valve opens the spring brake pressure is held constant, as shown by line E in Figure 3. On opening of the one way valve at point F the spring brake pressure falls rapidly, as depicted by line G, to equal the reservoir pressure at point H, and the spring brake operates. The rate of pressure fall in the spring brakes may be reduced to provide a more gradual application by means of a restriction in the spring brake port 24 not shown . A severe loss of reservoir pressure, whether sudden or gradual, during trailer use under normal conditions results in the valve assembly 9 moving to the reservoir exhausted condition of Figure 2 thus disabling the one way valve and allowing operation of the spring brakes. It will be appreciated that with the valve construction of Figure 2 the point at which the one way valve member 27 is unseated, point F, is determined by the reservoir pressure and the force of spring 33. Figure 4 shows a modified control valve 9, and parts corresponding to those of the valve of Figure 2 have been given corresponding reference numbers. The valve is shown in the condition in which air is being metered back to the reservoir. The valve of Figure 4 differs from that of Figure 2 in that the piston 19 is of differential outline, having at its lower end a reduced diameter tubular portion 37, which is sealed in the smaller diameter portion 38 of the housing bore 15, communication from the interior of piston 19 to spring brake port 24 being by way of an axial passage 39 in the piston portion 37 and a chamber 40 in bore portion 15 bounded by the lower end of piston 37. The lower end of the piston 19 is thereby subjected to spring brake pressure. Spring 33 in this case can be a weaker spring than in the case of the Figure 2 construction and is conveniently arranged in an annular chamber defined between a step 41 on piston 19 and a housing step 42 at the junction between bore portions 17 and 38, the spring abutting steps 41 and 42 at its opposite ends, and the annular chamber being vented to atmosphere by a vent 43. The spring 33 has a sufficient installed force to overcome the force of spring 30 and the seal friction of piston 19, to ensure that poppet valve 27 will be lifted from seat 28 on loss of the reservoir pressure. The valve seat 28 in the Figure 4 construction is provided on an annular valve seat insert 45 which is secured against an internal step 44 on the piston by peening over the upper end of the piston wall, the seat insert 45 holding captive the poppet valve member 27 with its spring 30. This valve has the characteristics shown in the graph of Figure 5. As the reservoir pressure decays the spring brake pressure initially remains held at E and then, as shown by line J, falls with the reservoir pressure line C . The ratio of the spring brake pressure to the reservoir pressure PSB PR is constant in this case PSB PR is 2.0. Thus when the spring brake cut in pressure is reached at K, the reservoir pressure will be only half the pressure at the corresponding point H in Figure 3, so that early operation of the brakes is avoided. The differential areas of the piston 19 exposed to reservoir and spring brake pressures respectively in chambers 26 and 40 are the means by which the ratio of PSB PR is achieved over line J. The operation of the valve of Figure 4 will now be briefly described. On initial charging of the reservoir 5 from the emergency line 1, air pressure builds up in the reservoir port 25 and acts on the upper end of the piston 19, producing a force which overcomes the force in the spring 33. The piston 19 is moved to its lowermost position in which piston portion 37 abuts the lower end wall of the bore portion 38. The pressure differential across the valve member 27 is sufficient to open the valve and air flows freely from the reservoir to the spring brakes by way of passage 39 and port 24. When the reservoir 5 is fully charged the pressures on both sides of the one way valve reach their maximum value with respect to atmosphere. As with Figure 2, there will be a slight pressure lag across the one way valve. The one way valve will close. During the energy consumption test, previously mentioned, the valve assembly 9 operates in the same way as the valve assembly of Figure 2 until the one way valve opens. Thus, when this valve opens, at point F, the spring brake pressure line J starts to fall as the reservoir pressure line C decays. However, the piston 19 moves, in response to the pressures in the chambers 26 and 40, so that the valve member 27 meters the spring brake pressure to provide the constant ratio PSB PR as the pressures fall. This is the condition shown in Figure 4. Thus, the valve assembly 9 acts as a pressure proportioning valve of the metering kind in determining the line J. When the reservoir is exhausted, the piston 19 returns to its uppermost position in which the valve member 27 is held open by the pin 36. As with the embodiment of Figure 2, loss of reservoir pressure in normal use results in the valve assembly 9 moving to the reservoir exhausted condition, thus disabling the one way valve and allowing operation of the spring brakes. Figure 6 shows a different position for the spring brake one way control valve assembly 9. With the Figure 1 arrangement, if the piston 19 of valve assembly 9 of either Figures 2 or 4 were to seize in the lowermost position and air loss from the reservoirs occurred, the spring brakes would not be applied as the valve assembly 9 would simply function as a one way valve. No advance warning of a seized piston 19 would be detected in normal trailer operation, which is a disadvantage, although even if the piston seized the parking action of the spring brakes would be unaffected. The alternative position of the valve assembly 9 as shown in Figure 6 helps to overcome this problem. In Figure 6 the valve assembly 9 functions in the same way as it does in Figure 1 when the reservoir pressure is lost, but in addition every time the park valve 8 is operated the piston 19 moves to the reservoir exhausted position. This has two advantages. First, the regular cycling of the piston 19 reduces the likelihood of seizure. Second, if the piston 19 seized in its lowermost position it would not be possible to operate the spring brakes for parking and an indication of valve failure would be given in a non emergency situation.