# Measuring tape.

## Abstract
A tape measure case 1 incorporates means to project a marking element 20, 48 through a guide aperture 22, 52, 80 for marking at a measured distance. The marking element 20, 48 can be a pencil lead, and the bulk and shape of the case 1 are little changed from conventional.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A tape measure having a case with a measuring tape bearing distance markings which is coilable within the case and extensible from the case through a mouth in the case walls, characterised in that the case has an elongate marking element, means to hold the marking element, and means to advance the marking element to cause a tip thereof to project adjacent the mouth of the case and alongside the tape, for marking by means of the said tip of the marking element. 2. A tape measure according to claim 1 wherein the said tip projects through a guide aperture at the case periphery. 3. A tape measure according to claim 2 wherein the marking element is retractable through the aperture. 4. A tape measure according to any one of the preceding claims wherein the marking element is held either exteriorly of and substantially parallel to a side wall of said casing or at least partially within said casing. 5. A tape measure according to claim 1, claim 2 or claim 3 wherein only the said tip of the marking element projects longitudinally beyond the periphery of the case. 6. A tape measure according to any one of the preceding claims wherein the marking element is accommodated parallel to a case wall, with not more than the said tip projecting longitudinally past the periphery of that wall. 7. A tape measure according to any one of the preceding claims wherein the marking element is not more than 5 mm thick. 8. A tape measure according to claim 7 wherein the marking means is a pencil lead. 9. A tape measure according to any one of the preceding claims having a second marking element, means to hold this marking element, and means to advance the second marking element to cause a tip thereof to project at a point remote from the mouth of the case, for marking by means of the said tip of the second marking element. 10. A tape measure according to any one of the preceding claims wherein the means to advance the marking element operates through a travel which is restricted, so as to advance the marking element by less than 5 mm.

## Description
MEASURING TAPE This invention relates to a measuring tape of the kind havng a case with a measuring tape bearing distance markings which is coilable within the case and extensible from the case through a mouth in the case walls. It is known for tape measures to be provided with means for marking a measured position. Generally, prior proposals have tried to add a pencil or pen in some way which considerably enlarges the overall size of the tape measure, and or provides projections which can snag if the tape measure is placed in a pocket, and or fail to provide a mark at the mouth of the case. It is an object of the present invention to provide a tape measure with marking means which can avoid greatly enlarging the case, and does not necessitate awkward projections from it. It is also an object of the invention to provide a tape measure with marking means which are easy to use. Further objects of the invention are economy in manufacture, and to make possible use of marking elements which are commercially available, so that they can be replaced readily and inexpensively. In a first aspect, this invention is characterised in that a tape measure case has means to hold an elongate marking element, and means to advance the marking element to cause a tip thereof to project. It is strongly preferred that the marking element projects adjacent the mouth of the case, or if plural marking elements are provided, one of them projects adjacent the mouth of the case. Preferably the or each tip projects through a guide aperture at the case periphery. This can support the tip of a thin marking element. It is desirable that the marking element should be retractable, either manually or automatically. Advance of the element may be resisted by resilient means, to give automatic retraction. The marking element may be a refill for a ball point or fibre tip pen, or may be a rigid scribing element.Preferred however is a pencil lead, such as is available for use in propelling pencils. The case may have an elongate guide to receive the marking element, and the means to advance the element may then advance it longitudinally along the guide. Means to hold the marking element may also serve to advance it. Preferably a second marking element projects adjacent an extremity of the case remote from its mouth.This can be useful if the tape measure is being used to sure close to an obstruction, preventing the tape being extended until the first marking element is in the desired position. The case will generally have a pair of side walls joined by edge walls, around the periphery of the case, with the tape being coilable around an axis transverse to the side walls. The marking element may be accommodated within the case, or within the thickness of a case wall. The marking element may be exposed on the exterior, or partially so, but preferably then lies closely against the exterior of the wall, e.g. so that it does not stand proud of any part of the exterior of the wall by more than five mm. The marking element may extend alongside a side wall of the case, and generally parallel to that wall, either inside or outside the case. A preferred arrangement may be defined as requiring that the marking element is held within the case, and or within a wall of the case, and or extends alongside the exterior of a case wall sufficiently closely thereto as to create no air gap between the marking element and the case wall. Preferably the marking element is no more than five mm thick, notably it may be a pencil lead which is at most one or two mm thick. Features of the invention enable use of slender marking elements, lacking rigidity and or structural strength. By causing the marking element to project through a guide aperture, it is supported near its tip.Features of the invention also enable the basic size and shape of a tape measure case to be largely preserved.Consequently the tape measure can be as easy to carry, e.g. in a pocket in clothing, as existing tape measures lacking any marking element. Most preferably the marking element, such as a pencil, pen, pin, stylus or the like, is retractable by means of a spring loading so that, at rest, the marking means is retracted automatically and is unobtrusive. In one form of the invention the marking element is held in a bore which is formed in an edge portion of a resilient body which travels in a guide on the exterior of a side wall of the case adjacent the mouth. A guide aperture through which the marking element is preferably so located ajacent the mouth of the case that the marking point is in exact alignment with the edge of the mouth whereby a mark may be made exactly where the tape emerges Because of its accuracy a tape measure of the invention may be used for a variety of purposes including draughtsmanship. For this purpose the extremity of the tape may be provided with an upstanding indicator of the tero or other point. Measurements and marking may be made successively with a high degree of accuracy. In order to explain the invention further, embodiments will now be described by way of example with reference to the accompanying diagrammatic drawings, in which Figure 1 is a perspective view of one embodiment of the invention Figure 2 is a transverse section taken on line IIII Figure 3 is an elevation of the spring body Figure 4 is an enlarged cross section taken on lineIV IV of Figure 3 Figure 5 is a perspective view showing the marking element projecting Figure 6 is a side view of a second embodiment, sectioned on line VI VI of Figure 7 Figure 7 is a section on line VII VII of Figure 6 Figure 8 is a side view of a third embodiment sectioned on line VIII VIII of Figure 9 and Figure 9 is a section on line IX IX of Figure 8. Referring first to Figures 1 to 5, the tape measure shown comprises a case 1 which is approximately a cuboid housing a coiled length of a tape 2 having distance markings, not shown. The case 1 has a mouth 3 through which the tape 2 can be drawn out for use. The e tape 2 terminates, as is customary, at an end hook 4 which prevents it from being retracted too far. Each side wall of the case incorporates moulded integrally with it a holder 6 with a generally rectangular outline within which slides a spring body shown in Figure 3. The spring body comprises a plate 8 which slides between the vertical sides of the holder, and a tension spring 10 which extends from the plate 8 to a dovetail 11 at its free end. The dovetail fits into a cut out in the upper run 12 of the holder 6. Each side of the holder 6 defines grooves 14 into which fit the edges of the plate 8. These edges are formed with inclined faces 16 to fit the grooves 14. One edge of the plate 8 is formed with a bore 18,19.The lower length 18 of this is dimensioned to receive a marking element, such as a pencil lead 20, or a pin. The upper length 19 of the bore is narrower, and a thinner pin or wire can be pushed down it to expel the pencil lead 20 or pin from the lower length, when required. At the corner nearest the mouth 3 the holder 6 is shaped to define a guide aperture 22 which may also be termed a socket through which the marking element can extends Sliding the plate 8 in the holder 6 moves the marking element 1ongitdinally, so that when the plate 8 is slid down against the action of spring 10, the marking element 20 extends through the guide aperture 22, and the tip 24 of the marking element projects, as shown in Fig.5. The plate 8, and dovetail 11 are preferably fast with the ends of the spring 10, so that the spring body constituted by these items is effectively one piece. It may be moulded or stamped in one piece from polyacetal or like material. At rest the spring retracts the plate 8 to the position shown in Fig. 1, and hence automatically retracts the marker element 20. The free end of tape 2 may have a depending marker 25 as a zero reference point for measurement.Alternatively a hook 4 which is free to slide slightly as is known per se may be used. In use the end of the tape is held, or hooked with hook 4, at a reference point. The tape is extended e.g.by moving the case until the case is at the desired position. The user then moves the plate 8 down, with a finger or thumb, to project the tip of the marking element 20, and make a mark. The guide aperture 22 is arranged to be exactly aligned with the mouth of the case, so that the mark made will correspond to whatever distance is indicated where the mouth 3 extends across the tape 2. It will be appreciated that in this embodiment the marking element 20 extends across the exterior of the side wall of the case, parallel and close to it. The plate 8 constitutes means to hold and to advance the marking element 20. The arrangement adds very little to the dimensions or shape of the case and enables use of a thin pencil lead as marking element. The fragile lead is protected by the parts of the case which hold and surround it, especially the guide aperture 22 which also promotes accurate marking by locating the tip of the marking element, avoiding parallax error or variation in orientation which might arise if the element was directly hand held. The lead 20 is retracted automatically after use, so that it should not make unwanted marks or snag clothing. The open side of the bore 18 enables the marking element to be gripped by a plate 8 formed of resilient material, because the bore can be dimensioned to be slightly expanded by the marking element. The open side also assists in releasing the plate 8, or entire spring body 8, 10, 11 from a mould or from a stamp press. If desired a second spring body and holder, oppositely handed but otherwise identical, can be provided as shown in phantom in Figure 5. This enables marking at the corner 26 of the case, remote from the mouth 3. The dimensions may be arranged so that the second marking element is spaced from the mouth 3 by a distance which is a convenient round number such as 50 mm. A user can mentally add this to the indicated distance. Another possible modification is to provide a pencil lead as marking element on one side wall of the case, and scribing pin held by a similar spring body, on the other side wall of the case. Figures 6 and 7 show a second embodiment in which the marker element is held within the case. This tape measure has a case 31 which is also cuboidal, consisting of side walls 32, 33 with peripheral walls joining them. The case has an internal wall 34 parallel to the side walls, dividing the case into a compartment 36 in which a tape 2 coils around an axis extending between the walls 33, 34, and a second compartment 38. The tape is held coiled in the compartment 36, with a conventional mechanism supported between the walls 33, 34. The e tape issues through a mouth 40. Within the compartment 38 a block 42 is provided, integral with wall 32. This block has a socket 44 into which is fitted one end of an arm 45 of a moulding 46 which serves as means to hold and advance a pencil lead 48. This lead is initially inserted through a hole 50 in the top of the case, and its lower end portion is received in a guide aperture 52 aligned with the mouth 40. It will be seen that the lead 48 lies alongside and parallel to the interior of wall 32. The arm 45 is shaped so that it abuts the mouth of socket 44, and is substantially prevented from pivoting. The moulding 46 has a slider constituted by an outer portion 54 and an inner portion 56 which are hinged together through a living hinge along their edge 58.These parts are moulded roughly coplanar and then the inner portion 56 is folded round behind the outer portion 54, forming a channel through which the lead 48 passes.A guide channel 60 for the lead extends up from the inner portion 56. The slider 54, 56 is located between guides 62 which are integral with one or other of the walls 32, 34. The portion 54 includes a button 64 which projects through an aperture 66 in the wall 32. This arrangement permits the slider portions 54, 56 to slide as one unit along the longitudinal direction of the pencil lead 48, over a short travel. The e aliding resiliently bends the arm 45, which therefore exert. a restoring force on the slider 54, 56. This arm is arranged to hold the slider 54, 56 up so that the button 64 normally abuts or lies close to the upper boundary 68 of the aperture 66. The slider portions 54, 56 are normally far enough apart to allow the lead 48 to pass between them.Pressure on the button 64 pushes the portion 54 towards the portion 56, which itself is supported by a thickening 63 of the wall 34. The result is that the portions 54, 56 grip the lead 48 but only as long as pressure is applied to the button 64. A thin leg 70 extends from the arm 45 to a pointed tip 72 as shown. This presses on the lead 48 at all times. Its tip 72 is arranged to apply slight pressure to the lead so that the lead 48 cannot fall freely past the tip 72, but can be pushed past it. Movement of the leg 70 is blocked by stops 74, 75 which project from one or other of the case walls 32, 34. The rest condition is illustrated in Figures 6 and 7. If the button 64 is then pushed down towards the lower boundary 69 of the aperture 66, the finger pressure on the button 64 causes the portions 54, 56 to grip the lead, and the lead is advancedd longitudinally until the button 64 reaches the boundary 69. The e lead 48 advances past the tip 72, which then holds the lead 48 in the position it reaches. When the button 64 is released, the resilience of arm 45 returns portions 54, 56 without the lead 48. The lead is initially slid in through the hole 50 and as far as possible down guide channel 60. The lead is then advance by repeatedly pushing the button 64 down and releasing the button, until the tip of the lead appears from the guide aperture 52. After this, whenever it is desired to advance the lead, the button 64 is pushed down. The e travel of the button 64 is restricted by the spacing of the boundaries 68, 69. These are set to restrict the travel to 2 nrm, Consequently it is not possible to project the tip of the lead by more than 2 mm with a single operation of the button 64 which reduces the risk of projecting too much lead, and breaking it. The lead will not retract automatically, but can be pushed in by hand when finished with. An exactly similar lead and means to hold and advance it is provided in the other half of the compartment 38, for the lead to project through a guide aperture 80 at the corner of the case opposite to the mouth 40. A modification enables automatic retraction. The stop 75 is positioned 2mm below the rest position of the leg 70. The e boundary 69 of the aperture 66 is positioned to allow a longer travel, of say 4mm. When the button 64 is depressed, the leg 70 moves with the slider portions 54, 56 during the first 2mm. If the button is released, the leg 70 moves up again with the slider 54, 56 and retracts the lead. After 2mm the leg bears on the stop 75. More force is needed to depress the button further, until the button 64 abuts boundary 69. During this final travel the lead 48 is advanced past the leg, and this advance of the lead is not retracted when the button 64 is released. Provision of three parallel walls 32, 33, 34 can be accomplished in various ways. The case 31 could be made of three moulded parts assembled with screws passing through all three, transverse to the walls 32, 33, 34.The side wall 32 could snap fit onto a moulding providing the wall 34, or the internal wall 34 could snap fit into a moulding providing the wall 32. Figures 8 and 9 show a third embodiment which is a variant on Figures 6 and 7. The case again has walls 32, 33, 34. Wall 37 carries parts 90 forming a guide for a pencil lead 48, which again is received in a guide aperture 52 aligned with the mouth of the case. The wall 34 carries an integral spigot 92 on which is a loosely fitting ratchet wheel 94 which is exposed through an aperture 96 in a peripheral wall of the case.The wall 34 also carries an integral block 98 from which extends an arm 100 Which is free to flex and forms a resilient pawl for the ratchet wheel. The wheel 94 is urged outwardly by the arm 100 so that its hub 102 presses gently on the lead 4B and holds it. The wheel can be turned by hand in the direction of arrow 104, to advance the lead by 2 mm for each ratchet tooth. It can be pressed in arrow 106 against the arm 100 to free the lead 48. Lead is inserted through the guide aperture 52 while the wheel 94 is pressed in. The lead is made to project, for marking, by turning the wheel around one tooth, and is retracted, when desired, by pressing the wheel 94 in, and pushing the lead back manually. A similar lead and wheel arrangement is provided in the other half of compartment 38, for this second lead to project through a guide aperture at the corner 26 of the case, away from the mouth.