# DENTAL CARIES PREVENTIVE PREPARATIONS AND METHOD FOR PREPARING SAID PREPARATIONS

## Claims
Schutzpräparat gegen Zahnkaries, das ein im Mundraum natürlich vorkommendes Bakterium aufweist, das genetisch transformiert wurde, um ein Glukanase Enzym zu exprimieren.

## Description
The present invention relates generally to recombinant methods and materials useful for securing the microbial expression of exogenous gene products. More particularly, the invention relates to microbial preparations for the prevention of dental caries and methods for their production. In the past, dental plaque which is a complex of cariogenic bacteria, insoluble glucans and other material has been mechanically removed by brushing the teeth with a tooth brush and use of materials such as dental floss. It is significant, however, that bacteria sorb rapidly to the enamel surface within minutes after the teeth are vigorously cleaned and that macroscopically visible colonies will then appear within one or two days. In addition, it is extremely difficult to ensure thorough cleaning of the teeth as dental plaque will often remain intact in areas difficult to reach with a tooth brush or dental floss. Recently, dentifrices have been developed which provide for the enzymatic decomposition of the α1,3 and α 1,6 glucosidic bonds holding together insoluble glucan polymers. Such dentifrices typically comprise α 1,6 glucan 6 glucanohydrolase α 1,6 glucanase or dextranase or α 1,3 glucan 3 glucanohydrolase α 1,3 glucanase or mutanase . Yoshida, To date, there have been no reports of the use of recombinant methods in the cloning and isolation of genes coding for α 1,3 or α 1,6 glucanase enzymes. From the above description of the state of the art it is apparent that there exists a need in the art for improved methods and materials providing glucanase activity in the human oral cavity. Such methods and materials should preferably provide consistent long lasting glucanase activity and should preferably not require frequent application. According to the present invention, there is provided a dental caries preventative preparation comprising a bacterium indigenous to the oral cavity which has been genetically transformed to express a glucanase enzyme. The invention also provides a recombinant DNA molecule consisting of segments of DNA from different genomes which have been joined end to end outside of living cells and which have the capacity to transform a host and to be maintained therein, and the progeny thereof, comprising a DNA sequence selected from Additionally provided are hosts transformed with such recombinant DNA molecules coding for the expression of 1 3 glucan 3 glucanohydrolase enzymes. Specific examples are The present invention further provides a recombinant DNA molecule consisting of segments of DNA from different genomes which have been joined end to end outside of living cells and which have the capacity to transform a host and to be maintained therein, and the progeny thereof, comprising a DNA sequence selected from The aim being to provide methods and materials for the introduction and maintenance of long lasting glucanase activity in the oral cavity, the preferred technique comprises 1 cloning genes of a bacterium which produces α 1,3 glucanase, α 1,6 glucanase, or both of them, 2 transforming bacterial cells of a type indigenous to the oral cavity with such genes so as to allow for expression and secretion of the gene products, and 3 introducing the transformed bacteria into the oral cavity. The transformed organisms may be introduced to the oral cavity in a concentration such that sufficient levels of α 1,3 glucanase, α 1,6 glucanase or both of them are constantly expressed and secreted into the oral cavity so as to degrade the glucans of dental plaque and prevent the accumulation of such plaque and the adhesion of cariogenic organisms to the teeth. Use of both α 1,3 glucanase and α 1,6 glucanase in combination produces a synergistic effect in degrading the insoluble glucan materials making up dental plaque. Accordingly, genes coding for the expression and secretion of both types of glucanase may be introduced separately or together into the same or different transformed bacteria of the type indigenous to the oral cavity. Procedures according to the invention will now be described by way of example and with reference to the accompanying drawings in which The following examples illustrate isolation of bacteria expressing genes for glucanase activity, cloning and expression of genes coding for that activity, introduction of genes coding for activity into bacteria indigeneous to the oral cavity and the expression and secretion of glucanase gene products. This example relates to a procedure generally applicable for isolation of glucanase producing organisms from soil samples. More specifically, a sample of soil comprising weathered granite mixed with peat and having a pH of approximately 6 was obtained from the inventor s garden and was added to a sterilized and phosphate buffered pH 7 minimal medium comprising 0.1 by weight NH₄ ₂SO₄, 0.0005 MgSO₄ 7H₂O 0.0005 FeC12 6H₂O and 0.03 insoluble glucan obtained from cariogenic bacterium A variety of bacteria cultured in the medium were subcultured twelve times and were concentrated. Agar plates were prepared comprising 1.2 by weight agar to which 0.2 insoluble glucan and the minimal medium described above had been added. The plates were then inoculated with the concentrated bacteria and were cultured to form colonies. After several days of incubation at 30 C, bacteria which expressed glucanase activity and degraded the insoluble glucan were identified by the formation of transparent halos around the colonies. Four particular colonies identified as expressing glucanase activity were cultured and characterized. Bacteria forming the most conspicuous halo were identified as In this example, a determination was made of the activity of the glucanase enzyme produced by BC 8. In order to determine the activity of the glucanase enzyme, a suspension of the insoluble glucan of example 1 was pulverized by ultrasonic treatment and for use as a substrate. In this example, glucanase enzymes with α 1,3 and α 1,6 activities were produced by the culture of bacterium BC 8. Cultures of bacterium BC 8 were incubated in 500 ml of tripticase soy broth containing 0.3 insoluble glucan for three days at 30 C. The culture supernatant obtained by centrifugation was treated with 75 ammonium sulfate solution to precipitate the enzyme. The resulting precipitate was dissolved in 50 mM phosphate buffer solution pH 7.0 , and this solution was then added to a DE 52 cellulose column. Fractions were collected while the column was eluted with 50mM phosphate buffer solution pH 7.0 with NaCl increasing in concentration from 0 to 0.5 molar. The fraction of this eluate showing peak activity was then subjected to the Sephadex The 68 kd. protein was purified in the manner described above and was applied to glucan which had had its α 1,6 linkages destroyed by treatment with periodic acid or commercially available dextranase thereby having only α 1,3 linkages. The 68 kd protein was found to degrade the α 1,3 bonds to produce reducing sugars. When a commercially available dextran with α 1,6 linkages was subjected to the 68 kd enzyme, almost no reducing sugars were produced thus indicating that the enzyme was an α 1,3 glucanase. Hexokinase added during the enzymatic treatment of the glucan detected the presence of glucose monosaccharide thus indicating that the glucanase was an endo type of glucanase formally classified as α 1,3 glucan 3 glucanohydrolase. Similar tests conducted on the 54 kd enzyme found that that enzyme had glucanase activity specific for the α 1,6 linkage and was an α 1,6 glucan 6 glucanohydrolase. While it is known that the linkages of insoluble glucan are predominantly of the α 1,3 variety and that α 1,3 glucanase plays the principal role in enzymatic degradation of insoluble glucan it has been found that the combination of the α 1,3 glucanase and the α 1,6 glucanase has synergistic effects on the degradation of insoluble glucans. Accordingly, to remove insoluble glucan, it is desirable to clone both genes for α 1,3 glucanase and for α 1,6 glucanase and link them into one plasmid. In this example, the gene coding for the expression of the BC 8 α 1,3 glucanase was cloned into an At the same time, One µg of the bacterium BC 8 In this example, transformed As shown in Fig. 2, if a DNA fragment is inserted into the Cultures of From among the colonies showing Cm sensitivity, it was then necessary to identify those into which the α 1,3 glucanase gene had been successfully inserted. Because As the host bacterium HB 101 requires amino acids such as threonine, leucine and proline, the Cm sensitive Cm Those transformants observed to grow on the minimal medium were then cultured on a slightly larger scale 1 liter , and their plasmid DNA was extracted and cleaved by To demonstrate that the α 1,3 glucanase gene is present in this 3.0 kb DNA fragment, various bacterial cultures were incubated in 30 ml of minimal media containing 0.2 insoluble glucan. The cultures included 1 In this example, As shown in Fig. 3, the pGB 301 plasmid DNA which is present in the cytoplasm of At the same time, the pYEJ 001 plasmid containing the 3.0 kb fragment coding for the expression of α 1,3 glucanase gene was treated with Accordingly, the Even for those In this example, the gene coding for the expression of the α 1,3 glucanase gene was introduced into As a result of these limitations, it was decided to combine pGB 301 and The resulting plasmids were transformed into Plasmids were extracted from those colonies identified as containing the lac Z marker and one identified as having a size of 12 kb equivalent to the sum of pGB 301 9.8 kb and pUC 9 2.8 kb and the arrangement shown in Fig. 4 was designated as pMN 1. It can then be used as a cloning vector for the α 1,3 glucanase gene as described in example 8. The plasmid was then used as a shuttle vector to transform In example 5 it was noted that the α 1,3 glucanase gene was inserted downstream of the synthetic promoter of the pYEJ 001 plasmid. Surprisingly, the expression activity was not as strong as was expected. It was then suspected that the α 1,3 glucanase gene was inserted counter to the regular direction relative to the synthetic promoter and expression was in fact regulated by an endogenous The α 1,3 glucanase gene inserted into plasmid pYE 001 see Figure 5 may be transcribed in vitro by the RNA polymerase of Statistically, in approximately one half of the cases, the α 1,3 glucanase gene should have been inserted in the regular direction relative to the synthetic promoter, that is proceeding B to A. In this configuration, a powerful phenotypic expression would have been expected and large quantities of α 1,3 glucanase would be expected to be produced. Judging from the fact that no such strains were isolated it appears that the signal peptide of the α 1,3 glucanase gene product of bacterium BC 8 was not cut away by the signal peptidase of In those cases where the α 1,3 glucanase gene was inserted in the reverse direction, that is A to B , transcription by the regular promoter of the α 1,3 glucanase gene of the bacterium BC 8 will take place. The transcription seems to be reduced to a very low level by the powerful competitive effect of transcription by the synthetic promoter. This appears to be confirmed by experiments in which when the α 1,3 glucanase gene was inserted, under non inductive conditions, downstream of promoters of strong inductive systems, such as the tryptophan promoter Ptrp or lactose promoter Plac of This observation suggests that in order to efficiently produce the glucanase, the secretion signal peptide portion of the α 1,3 glucanase gene product should be modified such that the signal peptide may be readily cleaved off of the glucanase enzyme and the α 1,3 glucanase gene should be inserted in the regular direction downstream of a strong promoter. This example provides procedures for construction of plasmids coding for fusion proteins comprising the secretion signal peptide sequence of β lactamase and the mature , signal free polypeptide product of the α 1,3 glucanase gene. It has been found that β lactamase, a product of the ampicillin resistance Am Plasmid pMN 1 is manipulated to include the glucanase gene in a similar manner to that used with pGB 301. That is, pMN 1 is cut with A gene fragment comprising the promoter and secretion signal peptide of β lactamase is cleaved from plasmid pGH 54 modified by Ohgai, et al., Annual Meeting of Japanese Molecular Biology Assn., Tokyo, Japan, Dec. 4, 1985, and is inserted into a The In this example plasmids are constructed coding for the expression of a fusion protein comprising the secretion signal peptide for streptokinase and the mature , signal free polypeptide product of the α 1,3 glucanase gene. A gene fragment comprising the promoter and secretion signal peptide for streptokinase was cloned from Cultures of In this way, phenotypic expression of the α 1,3 glucanase gene is expected to be successfully demonstrated in Methods have thus far been disclosed for achieving phenotypic expression of the α 1,3 glucanase gene by cloning the gene and introducing it into bacteria indigeneous to the oral cavity. As previously disclosed in example 1 above, the bacterium Novel DNA sequences provided by the present invention are useful not only in securing glucanase enzyme production in heterologous host cells, but are useful as hybridization probes for isolation of glucanase enzyme encoding genes of various microbial species by well known means. In addition to the cloning of α 1,3 glucanase gene isolated from Furthermore, as disclosed in example 5 above, the combination of α 1,3 glucanase and α 1,6 glucanase has synergistic properties and is very effective in removing insoluble glucan. It would be possible to remove insoluble glucan most effectively by preparing a plasmid in which the α 1,3 glucanase gene and the α 1,6 glucanase gene are present in series downstream of a powerful promoter e.g. β lactamase or streptokinase promoter on a plasmid and introducing it into Bacteria other than As previously disclosed, the dental caries preventative preparations of the present invention comprise a bacterium indigenous to the oral cavity, which bacterium has been transformed by introduction of the α 1,3 glucanase gene, the α 1,6 glucanase gene, or both. Said genes produce enzymes which disintegrate the insoluble glucan produced by the cariogenic bacteria which cause dental caries. Accordingly, the dental caries prevention preparation of the present invention may be adhered to the teeth by appropriate means such that expression and secretion of glucanase enzymes will act to essentially continuously disintegrate the insoluble glucan produced by the cariogenic bacterium in the oral cavity. Moreover, the glucanase enzymes will be produced constantly, and as a result, dental caries will be prevented reliably. It has been reported, for example, that