# Welding electrode.

## Abstract
A consumable electrode including a core wire and a coating adapted for welding clad steel products. The result ing weld deposit overcomes the problem of iron dilution which tends to degrade the weld when available electrodes are utilized. Such clad products are often exposed to sulphur and acidified chloride environments. The core consists of by weight The coating includes by weight The coating also includes a binder.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A consumable electrode, the eleectrode comprising a core wire and s coating, the core wire including about 20Z to about 23f chro lus, about 8Z to about 10 solybdenum, about Of to about 5X iron, about 0 to about 1X cobalt, about 0 to about 0.5 silicon, about 0 to about 0.4 aluminum, about 0 to about 0.4X titanium, about 3Z to about 4 columbium plus tantalum, the balance nickel and trace impurities, and the coating including about 10 to about 40X calcium carbonate, about 10Z to about 35Z cryolite, about 10Z to about 30 titanium dioxide, about 6Z to about 12Z molybdenum, about 0 to about 7t nickel columbium, about 0 to about 10Z chromium, about 0 to about 15t nepheline syenite, about 0 to about 5 zirconium oxide, about 0 to about 5 periclase, about 0 to about 5 extrusion aids, and a binder. 2. The electrode according to claim 1 wherein the resulting weld deposit comprises about 20Z to about 23 chromium, about 11 to about 13t molvbdenum, about OZ to about 4.2Z columbium plus tantalum, about 0 to about 1t manganese, about 0 to about 7Z iron, about 0 to about 0.8Z silicon, about 0 to about 0.5Z copper, the balance nickel and trace impurities. 3. The electrode deposit according to claim 2 wherein the deposit is situated on a clad steel workpiece. 4. The clad steel workpiece according to claim 3 wherein the cladding includes about 20Z to about 23Z chromium, about 3.15Z to about 4.15 columbus plus titanium, about 8 to about 10 molybdenum, about 0Z to about 5S iron, about OX to about 0.5Z manganese, about OX to about 0.4t aluminum, about Or to about 0.4t titanium, about 0 to about 0.5 silicon, about OX to about 1S cobalt, the balance nickel and trace impurities 5. The electrode according to claim 1 wherein the binder comprises about 10X to about 34X of the weight of the coating and includes in weight S of the coating about 10S to 30S sodium silicate, about 0 to about 2 lithium silicate and about 0 to about 2S water. 6. A consumable electrode for welding a nickel chromium molybdenum alloy clad steel workpiece, the electrode comprising a core wire and a coating, the core wire including about 20S to about 23 chromium, about 8S to about 10 molybdenum, about 0 to about 5Z iron, about 0t to about 1X cobalt. about OX to about 0.5Z silicon, about 0X to about 0.4t aluminum, about ox to about 0.4 titanium, about 3Z to about 4t columbium plus tantalum, the balance nickel and trace impurities, and the coating including about 102 to about 40Z calcium carbonate, about POX to about 35t cryolite, about 10X to about 30X titanium dioxide, about 6 to about 12Z molybdenum, about 0X to about 7Z nlekel columblum, about Or to about 10Z chromium, about 02 to about 15 nepheline syenite, about 0t to about 5Z zirconium oxide, about 0 to about 5 periclase, about 0Z to about 52 extrusion aids, and a binder. 7. The electrode according to claim 6 wherein the resulting weld deposit comprises about 20Z to about 23 chromium, about 11Z to about 13X molybdenum, about 0 to about 4.2Z columbium plus tantalum, about 0 to about 1Z manganese, about 0X to about 7Z iron, about 0 to about 0.8 silicon, about 0 to about 0.5 copper, the balance nickel and trace impurities. 8. The clad steel workpiece according to claim 6 wherein the cladding includes about 20 to about 23Z chromium, about 3.15X to about 4.15 columbium plus titanium, about 8 to about 10 molybdenum, about 0 to about 5Z iron, about OX to about 0.5 manganese, about 0 to about 0.4Z aluminum, about 0 to about 0.4 titanium, about 0 to about 0.5Z silicon, about 0 to about 1 cobalt, the balance nickel and trace impurities. 9. The electrode according to claim 6 wherein the binder comprises about 10 to about 34Z of the weight of the coating and includes in weight of the coating about 10 to 30 sodium silicate, about 0 to about 2 lithium silicate and about 0 to about 2 water. 10. A weld deposit registered with a nickel chromium molybdenum alloy clad steel article, the weld deposit comprising about 20Z to about 23 chromium, about 11 to about 13Z molybdenum, about OX to about 4.2Z columbium plus tantalum, about OX to about 1Z manganese, about 0 to about 7 iron, about 0 to about 0.8 silicon, about 0 to about 0.5 copper, the balance nickel and trace impurities.

## Description
WELDING ELECTRODE TECHNICAL FIELD The instant invention relates to the art of welding in general and more particularly to an electrode especially adapted for welding a nickel base alloy over feel. BACKGROUND ART Nickel base alloys have long enjoyed considerable usage and are known to possess constderable advantages when employed in high temperature environments such as industriel turbines, flue gas scrubbers, jet engines, petrochemical installations, etc. These nickel alloys exhibit excellent high tcpiperature strength characteristics. Moreover, many nicel base alloys are highly resistant to corrosion normally associated with a wide variety of hot gases and corrosive liquids. In particular, for specific applications, INCONEL alloy 625 clad steel offers a substantial cost savings over solid INCONEL alloy 625 while exhibiting comparable corrosion resistance to sulfur and acidified, chloride environments. INCONEL is a trademark of the INCO family of companies. However when available welding electrodes are deposited onINCONEL alloy 625 clad steel, iron dilution from the steel substrate of the cladding can effectively lower the molybdenum content of the weld deposit to the point where it no longer offers corrosion resistance equivalent to the base metal. SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION Accordingly, there is provided a welding electrode that provides a sound weld deposit on clad steel products. Even when diluted with iron from the underlying steel, the welding deposit offers equivalent corrosion resistance to that exhibited by the alloy. PREFERRED MODE FOR CARRYING OUT THE INVENTION Assignee of the instant invention manufactures a coated consumable welding electrode called INCONEL Welding Electrode 112. It is employed in shielded metal arc welding operations for joining both nickel base alloys and carbon steels. However, as alluded to above, this electrode is deficient when welding clad steel. Compositional data on INCONEL Welding Electrode 112 is shown inTable 1. TABLE 1 Chemical Composition. 2 Deposited Weld Hetal Nia.......................55.0 max Si.....................0.75 maxC.........................0.10 max Cr.....................20.0 23.0Mn........................1.0 max Cbb....................3.15 4.15Fe........................7.0 max Mo.....................8.0 10.0S.........................0.02 max P......................0.03 max Others.................0.50 max a Plus Co. Co 0.12 max when specified.b Plus Ta INCONEL alloy 625 see U.S. patent 3,160,500 is a high strength nickel base alloy resistant to many forms of corrosive attack. Its nominal composition major components is given in Table 2. TABLE 2 in weight Z Ni........................balance Fe.....................0 5 Cr 20 23 Co 0 1t Cb Ta...................3 4 Si.....................0 0.5 Ho 8 lOX A1 0 0.4 C 0 0.1t Ti 0 0.4X Extensive research was undertaken to develop a consumable welding electrode suitable for welding INCONEL alloy 625 clad steel for use in flue gas desulfurization scrubbers. The aggressive environment in these systems can cause debilitating pitting and crevice corrosion attack. It is accepted that molybdenum is effective for increasing the resistance of nickel base and iron base alloys to such attack. Indeed INCONEL alloy 625 and INCONEL alloy 625 clad steel are used in this environment.However, when using weld clad steel, the iron dilution from the steel substrate of the clad product lowers the molybdenum content of the weld to the point that it no longer exhibits corrosion resistance equivalent to the base material. Accordingly, different electrode formulations were considered. As a result of extensive testing, Table 3 lists the chemical composition requirements for undiluted weld metal. An electrode depositing the following weld compositional ranges has been found to successfully weld INCONEL alloy 625 clad steel. TABLE 3 Weight Z Element Min Max C 0 0.10 Mn O 1.0 Fe 0 7.0 P 0 0.03 S 0 0.02 Si 0 0.80 Cu O 0. 50 Ni 52.0 Balance Cr 20.0 23.0 Cb Ta 0 4.20 Mo 11.0 13.0 The instant consumable electrode essentially utilizes INCONEL alloy 625 as the core wire and the flux formulation as shown in Table 4.The flux is formulated and deposited on the core wire in the usual manner. TABLE 4 Dry Mix all in weight Range Preferred Calcium Carbonate 12 40 23 Cryolite 10 35 21 Titanium Dioxide 10 30 14 Magnetite 0 10 3 Molybdenum Powder 6 12 10 Nickel Columbium Powder 0 7 up to 7 Chromium Powder 0 10 8 Nepheline Syenite 0 15 8 Zirconium Oxide 0 5 1 Periclase 0 5 2 Bentonite extrusion aid 0 5 3 Alginate extrusion aid 0 5 0.5 Natrosol extrusion aid 0 5 0.25 Binder Z of weight of Dry Nix above Sodium Silicate 10 30 24 Lithium Silicate 0 2 1.25 Water 0 2 0.25 The addition of columbium as nickel columbium to the flux is optional.When it is added, the columbium level of the deposit falls within the range specified for INCONEL Welding Electrode 112. However, omission of this flux ingredient causes a reduction in the columbium level of the deposit and significantly increases weld ductility. Average all weld metal room temperature mechanical properties are shown below in Table 5. TABLE 5 Rockwell UTS 0.2 YS El Z RA X Hardness 109.2 ksi 753 MPa 77.5 ksi 534 MPa 19.1 22.9 98 1OOB The corrosion properties of the resulting weld were obtained in the following fashion. s number of .25 inch .64cm thick plates of steel were clad with a single .062 inch .16cm thick layer of INCONEL alloy 625. A variety of gap configurations and a number of weld passes were utilized to make the following specimens. To protect the steel, a backing sheet ofINCONEL alloy 625 was applied and the edges were welded. The various specimens were immersed in a SO, saturated pfl 1 23,750 ppm chloride as NaCl solution at 800C 17 or for 30 days. The testing conditions represent an environment which weldments would reasonably encounter. Table 6 contains the chemical compositions of the evaluated weld materials. Teats 1,3, and 4 are for purposes of comparison. Table 6 CHEMICAL COMPOSITIONS in weight Welding Electrode C Mn Fe S Si Cu Ni Cr Al Ti Mg Co Mo Cb Ta P W 1 INCONEL 0.04 0.06 3.87 0.003 0.49 0.12 61.66 21.41 0.067 0.056 0.0015 0.062 8.81 3.53 0.007 Welding Electrode 112 Standard 2 Instant 0.04 0.04 2.49 0.004 0.48 0.12 59.68 21.72 0.047 0.044 0.0015 0.043 11.96 3.47 0.005 Electrode 3 INCONEL 0.04 0.06 1.95 0.002 0.16 0.14 62.79 22.02 0.16 0.26 0.042 0.035 9.05 3.50 0.005 Alloy 625 Filler Metal bare 4 HASTELLOY 0.002 0.48 6.08 0.02 0.06 Bal 15.56 1.22 15.61 0.005 3.73 C 276 Filler Metal bare Trademark of Cabot Corpration Table 7 below lists immersion test data. The specimens were tested as produced, with the welds having been stainless steel brushed. The test solution was prepared by dissolving reagent grade sodium chloride into distilled water. The solution was saturated with SO2 gas prior to the start of the test and daily weekdays thereafter. Three specimens each were placed in a TEFLON Trademark ofDuPont, E.I., de Nemours Co., Inc. cradle suspended in 4.5 L of corrodent contained in a 5 L resin reaction flask fitted with 12 30.48cm Graham condensers. After 30 days immersion, specimens were cleaned first with BON AMI Trademark of Faultless Starch Company and then with methanol and chlorothene. Specimens were evaluated in terms of mass loss corrosion rates and examined under 20X magnification for localized corrosion. Pit depths vere measured with a depth gauge where possible. Where surfaces were irregular, pit depths were estimated with a 20X microscope scale. TABLE 7 Immersion Test Data for INCONEL alloy 625 Clad Steel Plate With Various Welds, Evaluated in SO Saturated ph 1 23,750 ppm Chloride as NaCl at 800C i176 F for 30 DaysSpecimen Welding Corrosion Center Weld Comment Number Electrode t Rate mpy in Clad Edge Weld Cladding 1 2 1 2 1 .03 mm NLC 3 NLC NLC 2 1 1 NLC NLC NLC 3 1 1 NLC NLC 1 pit 1 16 1.6mm deep 4 4 2 1 NLC NLC NLC 5 1 3 .07 mm High pit density NLC NLC up to 1 32 .8mm deep 6 2 1 NLC NLC NLC 7 1 1 NLC NLC NLC 8 2 1 NLC NLC NLC 9 1 1 NLC NLC NLC 10 2 1 NLC NLC NLC 11 3 1 NLC NLC NLC 12 4 1 NLC NLC NLC 1 See Table 6, Column 1 2 mpy mils thousandths of an inch per year 3 NLC No Localized Corrosion was clearly discernable 4 Adjacent to weld, where a black film from welding was left on the plate. Specimens 3 and 5 suffered pitting of the backing plate andlor the cladding where a black filu from welding with a coated electrode was not completely removed from the specimen by stainless steel brushing.The ferricyanide test indicated that the black film contained significant iron, which could form ferric chloride adjacent to the surface. This vould create a severely. aggressive, highly localized environment. Specimen 5 suffered significant pitting in the center weld in the clad. As this weld was made with a standard electrode deposited directly onto steel, the pitting was as expected. Due to iron dilution in the weld, the No content of the weld surface exposed to the environment may be as low as 6 1 2 to 7X. Specimen 6 was welded similarly and it did not pit. Specimens 11 and 12, with center welds in the clad of INCONELFiller Metal 625 and HASTELLOY C 276, respectively, exhibited excellent corrosion resistance. Hovever, these two welding rods are not flux covered and therefore are only useful in situations differing from those contemplated for the instant covered electrode. Rather, they have been utilized herein for comparison purposes.