# PROCESS FOR THE PREPARATION OF INSULIN PRECURSORS AND PROCESS FOR THE PREPARATION OF HUMAN INSULIN

## Claims
DNA Sequenz, die für einen Humaninsulin Vorläufer der Formel

## Description
Human insulin consists of two peptide chains, the A chain containing 21 amino acid residues and the B chain containing 30 amino acid residues. The A and B chain are joined together by two disulfide bridges connecting the cysteinyl residue at A7 to B7 and A20 to B19, respectively. A third disulphide bridge is formed between the cysteinyl residues A6 and A11. Human insulin is produced in vivo in the pancreas in the form of preproinsulin. Preproinsulin consists of a prepeptide of 24 amino acid residues followed by proinsulin containing 86 amino acid residues in the configuration prepeptide B Arg Arg C Lys Arg A in which C is the C peptide of 31 amino acid residues. During excretion from the islet cells the prepeptide is cleaved off and proinsulin then folds to a structure in which disulfide bridges are formed. The C peptide is then excised proteolytically to give mature human insulin. Several attempts have been made to produce insulin, and especially human insulin by means of the recombinant DNA technology. In European patent publication No. 0055945 A the preparation of proinsulin or miniproinsulins from The above methods suffer from several drawbacks mainly stemming from the fact that A more convenient system for expression of mammalian polypeptides seems to be eukaryote cells and several attempts have been made to express foreign genes in eukaryotes, especially in yeast. Expression of interferon in yeast is described in European patent publication No. 0060057 A and expression and secretion in yeast of proteins heterologous to yeast is described in European patent publication Nos. 0088632A, 0116201 A and 0123544 A. A method for expressing pre proinsulin in yeast and processing and secretion of the expressed pre proinsulin is described in European patent publication No. 0121884 A. It has, however, been shown by the applicants that insulin precursors of the proinsulin type are sensitive to enzymatic degradation in yeast resulting in very low yields, if any, of secreted proinsulin or mature insulin. In yeast it has been shown that human proinsulin and proinsulin analogous with a more or less shortened C peptide are particularly sensitive to enzymatic cleavages at the two dibasic sequences flanking the C peptide region. Apparently these cleavages occur before the establishment of the S S bridges, resulting in formation of C peptide, A chain and B chain. The object of the present invention is to generate insulin precursors in high yields in yeast with correctly positioned disulfide bridges between the A and B moieties and which may be easily converted into human insulin. Several insulin precursors of the proinsulin type including proinsulin have been investigated see the following table 1 . DNA sequences encoding the precursors in question were inserted into a yeast vector system and transformed into yeast according to the technique described above and in the following detailed description. The gene encoding the insulin precursor was provided with a DNA sequence encoding yeast recognizable secretion and processing signals fused upstream to the gene for the precursor. In the present study a modified MFαl leader sequence was used in which the segment encoding the four last residues Glu Ala Glu Ala of the leader was removed. The modified MFαl leader contains as processing signals a dibasic sequence Lys Arg which is then fused to the 5 terminus of the precursor encoding gene. It was found that the leader sequence was cleaved off in all the constructions, i.e. cleavage occurred at the dibasic sequence Lys Arg upstream to all the insulin precursor genes. However, in all the insulin precursors constructions containing 2 dibasic sequences flanking the C peptide or a modified C peptide processing at both dibasic sites before establishment of correctly positioned disulphid bridges was observed and no single chained unprocessed precursor molecule could be isolated from the fermentation broth. Accordingly yeast can not be used as expression system for the production of insulin precursors of the proinsulin type. Surprisingly it has now been found that when the A and B chains of human insulin are linked with only one dibasic sequence constructions 7 10 in table 1 no cleavage at the dibasic sequence occurs in yeast and single chained insulin precursors with correctly positioned disulphide bridges are obtained in high yields in the fermentation broth from a yeast strain transformed with a DNA sequence encoding the insulin precursor in question. The present invention seems the more surprising as complete cleavage at Lys Arg was observed in the leader sequence positioned upstream to the precursor encoding gene. As insulin precursors of the present type containing a single dibasic sequence between the A and B chain can easily be converted into human insulin by in vitro digestion as explained in further details later the present invention provides for an economically attractive process for generating human insulin. In its first aspect the present invention provides a method for producing insulin precursors of the general formula Insulin precursors of the above formula I are B Lys Lys A, B Lys Arg A, B Arg Lys A and B Arg Arg A, the former two being preferred. When cultivating such transformed yeast strains high yields of all of the four insulin precursors were isolated from the culture broth, B Lys Lys A and B Lys Arg A being expressed in the highest yields. Accordingly, from an expression level point of view these two precursors would be the preferred ones. The expression products were isolated and insulin immunoreactive material IRI peptides were purified and characterized by microsequence analysis. It was found that the precursors of the above formula I are single chain molecules wherein three disulfide bridges link the following half cystein residues A6 A11, A7 B7 and A20 B19, i.e. the precursors are expressed in yeast with correctly positioned disulfide bridges compared to human insulin. The structure of the insulin precursors is shown in Fig. 1. The present invention further provides novel expression vehicles for efficient production of the above insulin precursors in a yeast host and secretion of the precursors into the nutrient medium. The expression vehicles comprise a replication system for stable maintenance in a yeast host, a DNA sequence encoding the insulin precursors of the above formula I and promoter and terminator sequences. The expression vehicle may upstream to DNA sequence encoding the desired product contain a preregion ensuring direction of the expressed product into the yeast secretory pathway and secretion of the expressed product into the growth medium. This preregion which might be a naturally occurring signal or leader peptide or a synthetic sequence providing secretion is generally cleaved from the desired product during secretion leaving the mature product ready for isolation from the culture broth. A well suited leader sequence for yeast is the yeast MFαl leader sequence Kurjan, J. and Herskowitz, I., Cell 30, 1982 , 933 943 . The expression vehicle may be a plasmid capable of replication in the host microorganism or capable of integration into the host organism chromosome. The vehicle employed may code for expression of repeated sequences of the desired DNA sequence, each separated by selective cleavage sites. The expression of the desired DNA sequence will be under control of a promoter sequence correctly positioned to the DNA sequence encoding the desired product to result in expression of the desired product in the host organism. Preferably a promoter from a gene indigenous to the yeast host is used, e.g. the promoter of the TPI triose phosphate isomerase gene or the MFαl promoter. The DNA sequence for the desired product will be followed by a transcription terminator sequence, preferably a terminator sequence from a gene indigenous to the yeast host, e.g. the terminator of the TPI gene or the MFαl gene. The present invention also provides novel synthetic DNA sequences encoding the insulin precursors of the above formular I . The novel DNA sequences were constructed by in vitro loop out mutagenesis of the human proinsulin gene using chemically synthesized 30 mer oligonucleotides to delete the original C peptide encoding sequences. The present type of insulin precursors can be converted into human insulin by removal of the X and Y amino acid residues by in vitro digestion with trypsin and carboxypeptidase B by a method analogous to the in vitro conversion of proinsulin into insulin described by Kemmler Kemmler et al., The Journal of Biological Chemistry, 246 1971 , 6786 6791 . Accordingly, the present invention also provides a method for enzymatically converting the insulin precursors with the above formula I into mature human insulin by which method an aqueous solution of the insulin precursors are treated with trypsin and carboxypeptidase B and human insulin is thereafter recovered from the solution. The enzymatic conversion may be carried out as a one step process by which trypsin and carboxypeptidase B are present at the same time in the reaction mixture. The one step reaction is preferably carried out at about neutral pH and slightly elevated temperatures. The yield of human insulin was about 50 . Better yields were obtained by a two step conversion of insulin precursors of the type B X Arg A. In such two step conversion trypsin is used in the first step, the digested product is isolated and is then further digested with carboxypeptidase B. By carrying out the trypsin digestion at high pH, for instance in the range of 11 12, and at low temperature about 4 C the overall yield of human insulin was about 80 . To obtain a high yield in the tryptic digestion at high pH the amino acid residue placed at position B32 see fig. 1 must be argenine Y Arg in formula I as this residue is still mainly positively charged and accessible to tryptic cleavage. Accordingly, the precursor B Lys Arg A might be the most preferred precursor as it is expressed in high levels in yeast and can be converted into human insulin in very high yields. Finally the present invention provides a method for preparing human insulin by which a yeast strain transformed with a replicable expression vehicle comprising a DNA sequence encoding the insulin precursors of the above formula I is cultured in a suitable nutrient medium, and the insulin precursors are recovered from the culture medium and converted into human insulin. The present invention is not intended to be restricted to the illustrated conversion with trypsin and carboxypeptidase B. If other The invention is further illustrated with reference to the accompanying drawings in which Total RNA purified Chirgwin, J.M. Przybyla, A.E., McDonald, R.J. Rutter, W.J., Biochemistry The 1. and 2. strand primers, GCTTTATTCCATCTCTC and CAGATCACTGTCC, used for the isolation of a human proinsulin cDNA clone were synthesized by semiautomatic column synthesis using the phophotriester approach on a polystyrene support H. Ito, Y. Ike, S. Ikata, and K Itakura Nucleic Acids Research Genes encoding the four insulin precursors B Lys Lys A, B Lys Arg A, B Arg Lys A and B Arg Arg A were made by insertion of a fragment encoding the linear human proinsulin sequence B C A in circular single stranded M 13 bacteriophage vector and site specific mutagenesis of the human proinsulin sequence with chemically synthesized 30 mer deletion primers, KFN41, KFN4, KFN42 and KFN18, respectively, and an universal 15 mer M13 dideoxy sequencing primer K. Norris et al., Nucl.Acids.Res., The four mutagenic deletion primers KFN4, KFN18, KFN41 and KFN42 were synthesized on an automatic DNA synthesizer Applied Biosystems Model 380 A using phosphoramidite chemistry and commercially available reagents. S.L. Beaucage and M.H. Caruthers 1981 Tetrahedron Letters Genes encoding the human insulin precursors were combined with fragments coding for the TPI promoter TPI The expression plasmids further comprise the yeast 2µ origin of replication and a selectable marker LEU2. During in vivo maturation of α factor in yeast, the last C terminal six amino acids of the MFα leader peptide Lys Arg Glu Ala Glu Ala are removed from the α factor precursor by the sequential action of an endopeptidase recognizing the Lys Arg sequence and an aminodipeptidase which removes the Glu Ala residues Julius, D. et al. Cell 32 1983 839 852 . To eliminate the need for the yeast aminodipeptidase, the sequence coding for the C terminal Glu Ala Glu Ala of the MFαl leader was removed via in vitro mutagenesis. In a preferred construction the modified expression units were transferred to a stable, high copy number yeast plasmid CPOT, ATCC No. 39685 , which can be selected merely by the presence of glucose in the growth medium. Plasmid CPOT is based on the vector Cl l which has been modified by substituting the original pBR322 Bgl1 BamH1 fragment with the similar Bgl1 BamH1 fragment from pUC13 and subsequent insertion of the S.pombe TPI gene POT as a BamH1 Sal1 fragment to give CPOT. Cl l is derived from pJDB 248, Beggs et al., Nature 275, 104 109 1978 as described in EP patent application 0103409 A. Plasmids prepared as described above were transformed into The yeast strains containing plasmids encoding different insulin precursors were grown on YPD medium Sherman, F. et al., Methods in Yeast Genetics, Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory 1981 . For each strain, two cultures of 1 litre each in a baffled flask of 2 litres were shaken at 30 C until they reached an OD at 600 nm of approx. 15 approx. 48 h . After centrifugation the supernatant was removed for further analysis. Immunoreactive insulin IRI was measured by radioimmunoassay Heding, L., Diabetologia It appears from table 1 that there is a striking difference in the expression levels of the precursors used in the present invention and precursors of the proinsulin type, i.e. containing a pair of dibasic amino acid flanking the C peptide or a modified C peptide. The conversion of the insulin precursors into human insulin can be carried out either by a two step enzymatic process or a combined one step process in which trypsin and carboxypeptidase B are present at the same time in the reaction mixture. In the above formulas and part of the following text the disulfide bridging between the A and B chain is illustrated by a bracket for better illustration of the enzymatic cleavage process. In the above formulas is the one chain insulin precursor Fig. 1 is the two chain insulin precursor intermediate in which the peptide bond between residue No. 32 Lys or Arg and residue No. 33 Al Gly has been hydrolyzed is human insulin. In the remaining formulas of the type B X Y A it is understood that the A and the B chains are connected by disulfide bridges as in native insulin. The enzymatic conversion is conducted in an aqueous solution of the insulin precursors. The trypsin type is not material to practice of this invention. Trypsin is a well characterized enzyme available in high purity, notably from bovine and porcine pancreas. Enzymes with trypsin like specificity, e.g. plasmin, clostripain and Achromobacter lyticus protease may also be used. To obtain a high conversion yield it is important to use highly purified carboxypeptidase B which does not contain carboxypeptidase A activity. This can be achieved by purification of commercially available carboxypeptidase B, e.g. by affinity chromatography or ion exchange chromatography. Alternatively carboxypeptidase A inhibitors such as ε amino n capronic acid or carbobenzoxyglycine can be added to the digest mixture. The one step conversion is preferably carried out at sligthly elevated temperatures from 35 40 C and at a pH of from 7 8. The trypsin and carboxypeptidase B concentration is preferably about 5 µg ml and substrate concentration is about 1 mg ml. In the two step conversion process the trypsin digestion is preferably carried out at high pH. At high pH in the range of 11 12 the lysine amino acid residues in the insulin precursor molecule e.g. B29 Lys and B31 Lys in B Lys Arg A, Fig. 1 are nearly uncharged pKa for lysine residue is approximately 9.0 and cleavage with trypsin does not occur. However, in e.g. the B32 arginine residue pKa 12 is still mainly positively charged and thus accessible to tryptic cleavage. Cleavage at the B22 arginine residue does only occur at very low velocity probably due to steric hindrance. A stable pH value during the tryptic digestion of is critical for a high yield of Several different buffer systems have been tried with the aim of stabilizing the pH at 11.8 11.9. The buffer system HPO₄ PO₄ which is normally used at high pH values has a good buffer capacity at pH 11.8. However, this buffersystem suffers from three main drawbacks. First the pH of a solution of HPO₄ PO₄ is very sensitive to temperature variations and a change from e.g. 25 C to 4 C may decrease the pH value with 0.7 pH units. Second Ca which might be present in order to stabilize the trypsin will be precipitated because the solubility product of Ca₃ PO₄ ₂ and CaHPO₄ is relatively low. Third it is not possible to acidify the digest mixture to stop the reaction momentaneously due to the action of the buffer systems HPO₄ H₂PO₄ and H₂PO₄ H₃PO₄. This system will during acidification result in neutral pH for a period of time in which trypsin immediately will create the undesired product des B30 insulin. As a result of these drawbacks the rather unusual buffer system H₂O OH has been used. This system does not suffer from the above mentioned drawbacks. Optimal conditions for the tryptic digestion of into was found to be about 20 mg ml of 200 µg ml of trypsin buffer solution 37.5 mM NaOH resulting pH as measured at 25 C was 11.86 temperature about 4 C and time of incubation about 180 min. The yield was 90.5 for The product of tryptic conversion can be purified by a number of conventional methods e.g. preperative HPLC, absorption chromatography, and ion exchange chromatography. can be nearly quantitatively converted into human insulin by digestion with caboxypeptidase B. Optimal conditions for this conversion was found to be about 5 mg ml of and about 5 µg ml of carboxypeptidase B buffer solution 50 mM TRIS HCl, pH 9.3, temperature about 37 C and time of incubation about 30 min. The yield was 99.5 for the conversion of The conversion of the insulin precursor into human insulin was followed quantitatively by reverse phase high pressure liquid chromatography HPLC and is illustrated in fig. 8. Referring to fig. 8, was dissolved to a concentration of 5 mg ml in 50 mM TRIS HCl buffer, pH 9.3 and digested with 5 µg ml carboxypeptidase B Boehringer at 37 C. Aliquots were removed from the digest mixture at t O A , t 2 min. B , t 5 min. C , and t 30 min. D , acidified to pH 1.5 with 4 N HCl and analysed by HPLC on a 5 µ Nucleosil RP C 18 column 4 x 200 mm equilibrated and isocratically eluted with 33 mM NH₄ ₂SO₄, 1.5 mM H₂SO₄ containing 29.4 v v acetonitrile at 30 C at a flow rate of 1 ml min. Peptides were detected by UV absorption at 214 nm. The conversion was completed after 30 min. and ethanol was added to the digest mixture to 60 v v . was purified by anionic exchange chromatography on a QAE Sephadex column as described by Schlichtkrull, J. et al., 1974 Horm.Metab.Res.Suppl., Ser. 5, p. 134 143.. B B chain, A A chain, K Lys, R Arg. It appears from fig. 8 that the product from the trypsin digestion was nearly quantitatively converted into by digestion with carboxypeptidase B. The conversion of the insulin precursors into human insulin are given in examples 10, 11, and 12 and the characterization of the human insulin in example 13. A 4.3 kb EcoRV Xbal and a 3.3 kb EcoR1 EcoRV fragment from pMT342 were ligated to a 0.6 kb EcoR1 Xbal fragment of pM215. Plasmid pMT342 is the yeast vector pMT212 with an inserted TPI Ligation of the above fragments from pMT342 and pM215 gives plasmid pMT462 harbouring the insert MFαl leader minus Glu Ala Glu Ala B C A. For converting the B C A encoding fragment into a B Lys Arg A encoding fragment the modified site specific mutagenesis procedure K. Norris et al., ibid. was used. A 0.6 kb EcoR1 Xba1 fragment from pMT462 encoding MFαl leader minus Glu Ala Glu Ala B C A was inserted into phage M13 mp10 RF Messing, J. and Vieria, J. 1983 Unpublished results DNA cut with Xba1 EcoR1. Single strand M13 phage containing the above EcoR1 Xba1 insert was incubated with the 30 mer deletion primer KFN4 and the universal 15 mer M13 primer d TCCCAGTCACGACGT New England Biolabs , heated to 90 C for 5 minutes and slowly cooled to room temperature in order to allow annealing. Then partly double stranded DNA was made by addition of a d NTP mix, Klenow Polymerase and T4 ligase. After phenol extraction, ethanol precipitation and resuspension, the DNA was cut with restriction enzymes Apal, Xba1 and EcoR1. After another phenol extraction, ethanol precipitation and resuspension, the DNA was ligated to EcoR1 Xba1 cut pUC13. The ligation mixture was transformed into an The B C A encoding fragment from pMT462 see example 1 was converted into B Arg Arg A by a procedure analogous with the procedure described in example 1 by site specific mutagenesis with a mixture of the 30mer deletion primer KFN18 and the universal 15 mer M13 primer as illustrated in Fig. 5. The sequence of the EcoR1 Xba1 insert of plasmid pMT599 was confirmed by the Maxam Gilbert method to encode MFαl leader minus Glu Ala Glu Ala B Arg Arg A. The Xba1 EcoR1 insert from pMT599 was provided with the TPI promoter and TPI terminator by ligation of a 0.5 kb Xba1 EcoR1 fragment of pMT599 with a 5.5 kb Xba1 EcoR1 fragment of pT5. The resulting plasmid pMT602 containing the insert TPI The B C A encoding fragment from pMT462 see example 1 was converted into B Lys Lys A by a procedure similar to the procedure described in example 1 by site specific mutagenesis with a mixture of the 30mer deletion primer KFN41 and the universal 15 mer M13 primer as illustrated in Fig. 6. After filling in with Klenow polymerase and ligation with T4 ligase the partly double stranded DNA was digested with Apa1, EcoR1 and Xba1 and ligated with the 5.5 kb Xba1 EcoR1 fragment from plasmid pT5 see example 1 . After transformation and retransformation into Plasmid pMT652 was cleaved with Xba1 EcoR1 and the 0.5 kb fragment was ligated with a 7.8 kb Xba1 Kpn1 and a 4.3 kb Kpn1 EcoR1 fragment of pMT644. The resulting plasmid pMT650 contains the insert TPI Plasmid pMT658 was constructed as described for pMT650 in example 3 with the exception that the 30mer deletion primer KFN42 was used instead of KFN41. Also, a more direct construction of the pMT644 derivative was chosen after in vitro mutagenesis, i.e. after filling in with Klenow polymerase and ligation with T4 ligase, the partly double stranded DNA was digested with Apa1, EcoR1 and Xba1 and ligated to a 7.8 kb Xba1 Kpn1 and a 4.3 kb Kpn1 EcoR1 fragment of pMT644. The ligation mixture was transformed into 100 ml of culture was harvested by centrifugation, washed with 10 ml of water, recentrifuged and resuspended in 10 ml of 1.2 M sorbitol, 25 mM Na₂EDTA pH 8.0, 6.7 mg ml dithiotreitol. The suspension was incubated at 30 C for 15 minutes, centrifuged and the cells resuspended in 10 ml of 1.2 M sorbitol, 10 mM Na₂EDTA, 0.1 M sodium citrate pH 5.8, 2 mg Novozym 234. The suspension was incubated at 30 C for 30 minutes, the cells collected by centrifugation, washed in 10 ml of 1.2 M sorbitol and in 10 ml of CAS 1.2 M sorbitol, 10 mM CaCl₂, 10 mM Tris Tris Tris hydroxymethyl aminometan pH 7.5 and resuspended in 2 ml of CAS. For transformation 0.1 ml of CAS resuspended cells were mixed with approximately 1 µg of plasmid pMT585 and left at room temperature for 15 minutes. 1 ml of 20 polyethylenglycol 4000, 10 mM CaCl₂, 10 mM Tris pH 7.5 was added and the mixture left for further 30 minutes at room temperature. The mixture was centrifuged and the pellet resuspended in 0.1 ml of SOS 1.2 M sorbitol, 33 v v YPGaL, 6.7 mM CaCl₂, 14 µg ml leucine and incubated at 30 C for 2 hours. The suspension was then centrifuged and the pellet resuspended in 0.5 ml of 1.2 M sorbitol. 6 ml of top agar the SC medium of Sherman et al., Methods in Yeast Genetics, Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory, 1981 with leucine omitted and containing 1.2 M sorbitol plus 2.5 agar at 52 C was added and the suspension poured on top of plates containing the same agar solidified, sorbitol containing medium. Transformant colonies were picked after 3 days at 30 C, reisolated and used to start liquid cultures. One such transformant MT593 MT501 pMT585 was chosen for further characterization. Plasmids pMT611, pMT650 and pMT658 were transformed into The transformed microorganisms MT 593, MT 616, MT 655 and MT660 were deposited by the applicant with Deutsche Sammlung von Mikroorganismen DSM , Griesebachstrasse 8, D 3400 Göttingen, on January 16, 1985 and accorded the reference numbers DSM 3194, DSM 3195, DSM 3198, and DSM 3199, respectively. DSM being an international depository authorized under the Budapest Treaty of 1977 affords permanence of the above deposits and accessibility thereto by the public in accordance with Rules 9 and 11, respectively, of the above treaty. Yeast strain MT 593 DSM 3194 was grown on YPD medium. A one liter culture in a 2 liter baffled flask was shaken at 30 C to an OD The column was washed with 15 ml of 0.1 M NaCl and then with 15 ml of H₂O and peptide material was eluted with 50 mM NH₄HCO₃ containing 60 v v of ethanol. The eluate 4.5 ml was concentrated to 1.1 ml by vacuum centrifugation Savant vacuumcentrifuge in order to remove the ethanol, and the volume was adjusted to 10 ml with 25 mM HEPES buffer at pH 7.4. The sample was applied to an antiinsulin sepharose column 2.5 x 4.5 cm which prior to the application had been washed with 20 ml of NaFAM buffer Heding, L., Diabetologia The eluate from the previous step was concentrated to 250 µl by vacuum rotation and peptides were further purified by reverse phase HPLC on a 5µ Waters Novapak C 18 column 3.9 x 150 mm . The A and B buffers were 0.1 TFA in H₂O and 0.07 TFA in acetonitrile, respectively. The column was equilibrated with 25 B at a flow of 0.75 ml min and the peptides were eluted with a linear gradient 1 acetonitrile per min and detected at 276 nm. The main peak eluted with a retention time of 13.15 minutes and peptide material from this peak was isolated by lyophilization of the eluate. The peptide material was characterized as described in example 8. The yield in each step of the purification was determined by radioimmunoassay as previously described, and Table 2 summarizes the purification. The overall yield was 39 . The above mentioned yeast strains were grown as previously described in example 6 and expression products were purified from the different supernants essentially as described in example 6. Table 3 summarizes the overall yields. B Lys Arg A was purified as described in example 6. The amino acid composition of the peptide was determined as follows 139.6 µg 19 nmol was hydrolysed in 100 µl 6 N HCl for 24 h at 110 C. The hydrolysate was analyzed on a Beckman Model 121 M amino acid analyser. The following amino acid composition was found Approximately 5 nmol peptide material was subjected to amino acid sequence analysis. The sequence analysis was performed with a Gas Phase Sequencer Applied Biosystem Model 470 A as descbribed by Moody, A.J., Thim, L. and Valverde, I. FEBS Lett., Peptide material was purified from the above mentioned yeast strains as described in example 6. The peptides were submitted to amino acid sequence analysis as described in example 8. From the sequence results not shown it could be concluded that the dibasic sequences linking the B and A chain were Lys Lys MT 655 , Arg Lys MT 660 and Arg Arg MT 616 , respectively. Purified peptides were submitted to amino acid analysis as described in example 7. The amino acid compositions were found in accordance with the theory results shown only for B Lys Lys A . 10 mg B Lys Arg A was dissolved in 10 ml of 0.23 M TRIS HCl buffer pH 7.5. The solution was heated to 37 C and 50 µg trypsin NOVO Industri A S and 50µg carboxypeptidase B Boehringer both dissolved in 100 µl of water was added to time zero. Aliquots of the reaction mixture were removed to time 0 min., 2 min., 10 min., 40 min., and 80 min. The enzyme reaction was stopped by acidification of the samples to pH 2.5 with 1 M HCl. The conversion of B Lys Arg A into human insulin was followed by reverse phase HPLC on a 5 µ RP C 18 column 4 x 200 mm of Nucleosil Macherey Nagel . The A buffer consisted of 25 acetonitrile adjusted to pH 3.5 with H₂SO₄ and the B buffer was 45 acetonitrile, 0.15 M NH₄ ₂SO₄, 1.5 mM H₂SO₄. The eluation was performed in an isocratic system using a mixture of 80 A buffer 20 B buffer at a flow of 1 ml min. The temperature of the solvents and column was 30 C and peptides were detected at 214 nm. The optimal yield in the above one step process was obtained after 10 min of incubation. At this time the reaction mixture consisted of 45 human insulin, 10 Des B30 insulin and 45 Arg Ao insulin. In order to increase the yield of the conversion a two step process was designed Example 11 . 26.4 ml of H₂O was added to 471 mg The mixture was chilled to 4 C and 3.0 ml of 0.25 M NaOH was added whereby the insulin precursor was dissolved. 6 mg of trypsin NOVO Industri A S in 200 µl of water was added. The reaction was carried out at 4 C for 5 h and stopped by the addition of 600 µl of 4 N HCl. The yield as determined by HPLC method given in Example 10 was 91.5 of and the main part of the remaining 8.5 was undigested The product was purified by preparative HPLC on a column 5 x 25 cm of octadecyldimethylsilyl substituted silica average particle size 15 µ, pore size 100 Å . The column was equilibrated and eluted isocratic with 0.185 M KCl 0.6 mM HCl pH 3.15 containing 37 v v ethanol at a flow rate of 2 l h. B Lys Arg A eluted at 4.3 column volumes and was isolated from the alcoholic pool by a crystallization procedure previously described for crystallization of human insulin B 30 esters Markussen, J. 1984 in Diabetes Research Vol I, Laboratory Methods Part B p. 403 411, eds. Larner and Pohl . The crystals were lyophilized and dissolved in 50 mM TRIS HCl buffer pH 9.3 in a concentration of 10 mg ml. The insulin precursor intermediate was converted into human insulin by digestion with carboxypeptidase B 40 µg ml at 37 C for 40 h. To the digest mixture was then added ethanol to a final concentration of 60 v v and human insulin was purified from the mixture by anionic exchange chromotography on a QAE Sephadex Pharmacia column as described by Schlichtkrull et al. The yields at the different steps of the conversion including the purifications are given in Table 7. 10 mg of B Lys Lys A was converted to human insulin as described in Example 10. The overall yield of human insulin as judged from HPLC was 48 . The other products were identified as Lys Ao insulin 42 , Des B30 insulin 9 and minor unidentified components 1 . Human insulin was prepared as described in example 11 and characterized in the following analysis