# Automatic setup of electrophotographic printing machines.

## Abstract
An automated process and apparatus for establishing the basic xerographic operating parameters for an electophotographic printing machine. The document scanning means 42, 43, 44, 45 is used in a setup mode to generate test patches 100, 102, 104, 106 of varying density on the machine photoreceptor 10 . The levels are measured and compared to pre set values stored in a digital controller memory until convergence is obtained along three separate points on the photo induced discharge curve PIDC see Figure 2 . The controller 31 adjusts the system parameters of charge circuit, developer bias and system exposure in an iterative process and corresponding to the PIDC for the particular machine.

## Claims
1. Apparatus for optimizing the operation of an electrophotographic printing machine having a corona device for applying a charge to the machine photoreceptor, a scan illumination optical system for illuminating a document to be copied on a platen surface and for projecting an image of the document along an optical path onto the photoreceptor to form a latent image thereof, a developer unit for applying toner to the belt surface, said apparatus comprising, a digital controller, memory means within said controller, having stored therein a digital representation of the photo induced discharge curve PIDC for the machine photoreceptor, optical test patch generation means comprising part of said scan illumination system, said patch generation means adapted to form at least a dark development VDDP patch, a second, full illumination VBG patch and a third intermediate development patch on said photoreceptor, a voltmeter for sensing photoreceptor voltage at said test patch areas and for sending representative signals to said memory means, and first logic means within said controller for analyzing the voltmeter input signals representing the values VDDP and VBG levels, comparing the difference constant contrast voltage VC , between these signals and a preset optimum value of VC stored within the memory means and selectively regulating the corona device and the developer unit in an iterative process until convergence is obtained between said difference and said preset value, said logic means being adapted to analyze the voltmeter input signals representing said intermediate development patch, comparing said signal with a preset optimum value stored within the memory means and selectively regulating the illumination output level of said scan illumination optical system in an iterative process until convergence is obtained between said measured and stored values.

## Description
This invention relates to electrophotographic printing machines and, more particularly, to a completely automated apparatus and process for establishing basic xerographic parameters at values previously determined to produce optimum output copy quality. In electrophotographic devices, such as a xerographic copier or printer, a photoconductive surface is charged to a substantially uniform potential. The charged portion of the photoconductive surface is exposed to a light image of an original document being reproduced, forming an electrostatic latent image at the photoconductive surface corresponding to the informal areas contained within the original document. The electrostatic latent image is subsequently developed by bringing a developer mixture into contact therewith. The developed image is subsequently transferred to an output copy sheet. The powder image on the output sheet is then heated to permanently affix it to the sheet in the image configuration. For any given population of electrophotographic printing machines, a primary control objective is to maintain uniform optimum copy quality from machine to machine. This goal has proven difficult to achieve since each machine experiences its own peculiar changes during extended operation. These changes include aging of the developer mixture, changes in environment, variations in the dark development potential, and residual voltage of the photoconductor or photoreceptor surface, a thinning of the photoreceptor surface due to abrasion, photoreceptor fatigue, exposure lamp illumination variations, and changes in the toner material concentration due to consumption. These variations, singly or cumulatively, have adverse effects on output copy quality that must be identified and compensated for on a continuous basis. Various control schemes are known to compensate for the variable factors listed above. These schemes involve adjustment of basic control parameters viz. adjusting the current of the device used to deposit the charge on the photoconductive surface, adjusting the bias applied to the development unit, varying the concentration of the toner mixture and changing the exposure level. All of these adjustments are interrelated and their proper selection by a machine operator during operation, or a technician during initial setup, have proven difficult and expensive to achieve, as well as time consuming. Generally also, some kind of test density target, either a special document, or an articulated device is necessary to calibrate exposure levels. It would be desirable, therefore, to provide a control apparatus that adjusts for these various functions in a manner that is automated so as to reduce the potential for human error and to perform these adjustments within a relatively short period of time, using an apparatus that is wholly self contained, e.g. does not require the use of portable current and voltage measuring devices. It would also be desirable to calibrate exposure levels by using optical components which are used during normal system scan operations. According to a first aspect, the present invention relates to apparatus for optimizing the operation of an electrophotographic printing machine having a corona device for applying a charge to the machine photoreceptor, a scan illumination optical system for illuminating a document to be copied on a platen surface and for projecting an image of the document along an optical path onto the photoreceptor to form a latent image thereof, a developer unit for applying toner to the belt surface, said apparatus comprising, a ditigal controller, memory means within said controller, having stored therein a digital representation of the photo induced discharge curve PIDC for the machine photoreceptor, optical test patch generation means comprising part of said scan illumination system, said patch generation means adapted to form at least a dark development V According to a further aspect, the invention relates to an electrophotographic printing machine wherein a document is scanned and an image thereof projected onto a photoreceptor surface, having an optical illumination and scanning system adapted to operate in a first and second mode of operation, said system comprising means for moving an illumination and scan assembly mounted beneath said platen in a first, document copying, mode from a start of scan to an end of scan to the start of scan position whereby a latent image of the document is formed on the photoreceptor surface, at least one density target strip affixed to the bottom surface of the platen at a location outside the end of scan position, said moving means adapted to move said illumination and scan assembly, in a second, test, mode of operation, to a first position outside the start of scan position, said motion occuring coincident with the positioning of an opaque occluder in the optical path to form a dark decay test patch at the photoreceptor surface, said moving means further adapted to move said illumination and scan assembly from said first position to a second position beneath said target strip, and means for selectively and sequentially altering the illumination level directed to said target strip to thereby form test patches of varying density at the photoreceptor surface. In a particular embodiment of the present invention, there is provided an apparatus for automatically adjusting basic xerographic parameters in a periodic initialization mode so as to establish predetermined copy quality and density. This apparatus includes optical means operable in a normal document scanning mode and in a test mode for forming at least four varying density patches on a precharged photoconductive surface, means for sensing the charged levels at three of said density patches, control means having stored therein a set of interrelated electrical values which define a predetermined photo induced discharge curve PIDC , said control means adapted to evaluate said sensed charge levels and determine whether they establish convergence with the desired PIDC and, through an iterative process, to vary charge current and exposure levels, until such convergence is realized and means responsive to the density of toner particles deposited on a fourth density patch for controlling the concentration of toner particles in the developer mixture. Other aspects of the present invention will become apparent as the following description proceeds and upon reference to the drawings in which For a general understanding of the features of the present invention, reference is made to the drawings. In the drawings, like reference numerals have been used throughout to designate identical elements. Figure 1 schematically depicts the various components of an illustrative electrophotographic printing machine incorporating the control system of the present invention therein. It will become apparent from the following discussion that this control system is equally well suited for use in a wide variety of electrophotographic printing machines and is not necessarily limited in its application to the particular embodiment shown herein. Inasmuch as the art of electrophotgraphic printing is well known, the various processing stations employed in the Figure 1 printing machine will be shown hereinafter schematically and their operation described briefly with reference thereto. Turning now to Figure 1, the electrophotographic printing machine uses a photoreceptor belt 10 having a photoconductive surface 12 formed on a conductive substrate. Preferably, belt 12 has characteristics disclosed in U.S. Patent 4,265,990. Belt 10 moves in the indicated direction, advancing sequentially through the various xerographic process stations. The belt is entrained about drive roller 16 and tension rollers 18, 20. Roller 16 is driven by conventional motor means, not shown. With continued reference to Figure 1, a portion of belt 10 passes through charging station A where a corona generating device, indicated generally by the reference numeral 22, charges photoconductive surface 12 to a relatively high, substantially uniform, negative potential. Device 22 comprises a charging electrode 24 and a conductive shield 26. A high voltage supply 30 controlled by a portion of controller 31, is connected to shield 26. A change in the output of power supply 30 causes a change in charging current, I As belt 10 continues to advance, the charged portion of surface 12 moves into exposure station B. An original document 32 is positioned, either manually, or by a document feeder mechanism not shown on the surface of a transparent platen 34. Optics assembly 36 contains the optical components which incrementally scan illuminate the document and project a reflected image onto surface 12 of belt 10. Shown schematically, these optical components comprise an illumination scan assembly 40, comprising illumination lamp 42, associated reflector 43 and full rate scan mirror 44, all three components mounted on a scan carriage 45. The carriage ends are adapted to ride along guide rails not shown so as to travel along a path parallel to and beneath, the platen. Lamp 42 illuminates an incremental line portion of document 32. The reflected image is reflected by scan mirror 44 to corner mirror assembly 46 on a second scan carriage 46A moving at 1 2 the rate of mirror 44. The document image is projected through lens 47 and reflected by a second corner mirror 48 and belt mirror 50, both moving at a predetermined relationship so as to precess the projected image, while maintaining the required rear conjugate onto surface 12 to form thereon an electrostatic latent image corresponding to the informational areas contained within original document 32. Adjustable illumination power supply 51, controlled by a portion of controller 31, supplies power to lamp 42. The optics assembly 36, besides operating in a document scanning mode, is also used in the automatic setup mode of the present invention, to generate and project four alternating density patches onto the centerline of the belt 10 for purposes to be described more fully below. Positioned between exposure station B and development station C, and adjacent to surface 12, is electrostatic voltmeter 52. Voltmeter 52 preferably is capable of measuring either positive or negative potentials and utilizes ac circuitry requiring no field calibration. Voltmeter 52, in the automatic setup mode, generates a first signal proportional to the dark decay potential V Referring again to Figure 1, discrete patch generator 53 is a calibrated LED light source which is energized in one of two modes of operation. In a first mode, operable during the automatic setup mode, a dedicated digital input provides for LED energization at a high fixed level. This mode is used primarily for erasing test patch areas generated during the setup procedures. In a second mode of operation, following the initial system setup, an analog reference input to the generator 53 provides for energization of the LEDs so as to generate a variable light intensity for use in toner control in several contrast modes as described in greater detail below. At development station C, a magnetic brush development system, indicated generally by the reference numeral 54 , advances an insulating development material into contact with the electrostatic latent image. Preferably, magnetic brush development system 54 includes a developer roller 56 within a housing 58. Roller 56 transports a brush of developer material comprising magnetic carrier granules and toner particles into contact with belt 10. Roller 56 is positioned so that the brush of developer material deforms belt 10 in an arc with the belt conforming, at least partially, to the configuration of the developer material. The thickness of the layer of developer material adhering to developer roller 56 is adjustable. Roller 56 is biased by voltage source 57 to a voltage level V The electrostatic latent image attracts the toner particles from the carrier granules forming a toner powder image on photoconductive surface 12. The detailed structure of the magnetic brush development system is more fully disclosed in U.S. Patent 4,397,264. As successive latent images are developed, toner particles are depleted from the developer material. A toner particle dispenser, indicated generally by the reference numeral 60 provides additional toner particles to housing 58 for subsequent use by developer roller 56. Toner dispenser 60 includes a container for storing a supply of toner particles therein and means not shown for introducing the particles into developer housing 58. A motor 62, when energized, initiates the operation of dispenser 60. Infrared densitometer 64, positioned adjacent belt 10 and located between developer station C and transfer station D, directs infrared light onto surface 12 upon appropriate signals from the controller 31. The ratio of reflected light on a developed area to that of a bare area is an indication of toner patch developability. The densitometer generates output signals and sends them to controller 31 through appropriate conversion circuitry. The controller operates upon these signals and sends appropriate output signals to motor 62 to control dispensing of toner particles. Densitometer 64 is also used to periodically measure the light rays reflected from the bare photoconductive surface i.e. without developed toner particles to provide a reference level for calculation of the signal ratios. Continuing with the system description, an output copy sheet 66 taken from a supply tray 67, is moved into contact with the toner powder image at transfer station D. The support material is conveyed to station D by a pair of feed rollers 68, 70. Transfer station D includes a corona generating device 71 which sprays ions onto the backside of sheet 66, thereby attracting the toner powder image from surface 12 to sheet 66. After transfer, the sheet advances to fusing station E where a fusing roller assembly 72 affixes the transferred powder image. After fusing, sheet 66 advances to an output tray not shown for subsequent removal by the operator. After the sheet of support material is separated from belt 10, the residual toner particles and the toner particles of developed test patch areas are removed at cleaning station F. Subsequent to cleaning, a discharge lamp, not shown, floods surface 12 with light to dissipate any residual charge remaining thereon prior to the charging thereof for the next imaging cycle. It is believed that the foregoing description is sufficient for purposes of the present application to illustrate the general operation of an electrophotographic printing machine incorporating the features of the present invention therein. The setup mode described in more detil below may be briefly summarized as Only two of the sensors, the voltmeter and the densitometer, need to maintain an absolute calibration. All major xerographic parameters are automatically established during the automatic setup mode and are automatically maintained thereafter. The setup procedure is reproducible over time within a single machine and from machine to machine across a population of machines. Upon initial installation of a particular electrophotographic printing machine and periodically daily thereafter, the basic machine parameters are automatically checked and adjusted. Each machine is associated with the same development potentials V₁ V The master control processor is an Intel Model 8085 which can be programmed to perform the described iterative functions, using the algorithms set forth in the Appendix. Incorporation of these algorithms into a larger and central unit is a procedure well understood by those skilled in the art. The automatic setup mode is initiated by applying initial power application to the machine. The sequence of operations occurring thereafter is shown with reference to Figure 4a, 4b. Figure 4a, 4b is a flow chart sequence of these operations. Figure 5 is a side view schematic drawing of the scan carriage at different density patch generating positions. Figure 6 is a time vs. voltage plot of the test patch generation sequence, and Figure 7 is a top view of belt 10 showing the imaged patched zones. Figure 9 is a flow chart of the test patch generator and machine functions. Referring to Figures 4a, 5, and 6, once machine power is turned on, the photoreceptor moves through a first cycle of operation at the system process speed. Scan carriage 45 moves to the home park position. Carriage 45, in this position is shown to the left of the platen in Figure 5. The components are shown dotted. Scan lamp 42 is energized at the normal lamp power level used during the preceding operational interval. An opaque occluder 90 is positioned in the optical path at a point above the belt 10 surface 12, thus preventing light from falling on the surface in an area corresponding to the occluder. Thus a first test patch 100 shown formed on the belt centerline in Figure 7 is therefore at the dark decay charging level V With carriage 45 still in the solid line position shown in Figure 5, the lamp illumination input is halved. The exposed patch area 104 on belt 10 forms a 0.3 density patch 104 on the photoreceptor. Carriage 45 is then returned to the home position and a second V Further operation of the carriage is dependent upon whether PIDC convergence is present as determined by comparisons of voltmeter generated signals processed by the microprocessor 84 and compared to values stored in the microprocessor memory. Electrostatic voltmeter 52, shown in Figure 1, is used to directly sense photoreceptor voltage at the test patch areas 100, 102, 104, 106. The voltmeter is positioned approximately 3 mm from the belt surface. Figure 4b shows the functional flow diagram for the voltmeter readings and the related microprocessor control operation. Referring to this figure, and to Figure 6, the voltmeter measures each of test patch charge levels on successive belt cycles. Signals representing the voltage at patch 100 V According to one feature of the present invention, a second iterative process is controlled by logic means within processor 84, which compares the measured values of the V Upon convergence of V To summarize the automatic setup procedure to this point, the basic xerographic parameters of charge current, illumination level and the developer bias have been set. The remainder of the setup procedure is directed to the calibration of the patch generator based on these values and the adjustment, if necessary, of toner concentration. Figure 9 shows a functional flow diagram setting forth these steps. Referring to Figures 5 and 9, and to the timing diagram shown in Figure 10, scan carriage 45 is moved to the right, past park position 1 to park position 2 where it is parked directly beneath a centrally located 0.7 density target strip 107. A 0.7 patch 108 Fig. 11 is thus formed along the centerline of belt 10 conforming in area to strip 107. The carriage then returns to the home position where a V Both patches 108 and 110 are developed at development station C Figure 1 and pass beneath densitometer 64. As illustrated in Figure 1 and Figure 11, the densitometer detects the density of the developed test area and produces electrical output signals indicative thereof. Thus the densitometer produces output signals proportional to the toner mass deposited on the V The final task of the setup procedure is to adjust the developer parameters, if necessary. An adjustment may not be necessary since the toner concentration level is monitored during normal operation and toner periodically added, as is known in the art. Therefore, a previous operation cycle should have left the toner concentration in a proper operating condition. However, the present setup procedure ensures proper toner concentrations by comparing the last V