# CARBACYCLIN DERIVATIVES

## Claims
Eine Verbindung der Formel I

## Description
This invention relates to carbacyclin derivatives, and in particular to carbacyclin derivatives with anti ulcer action. The invention also provides compositions containing these derivatives and processes for preparing them. Carbacyclin derivatives share in common the carbacyclin structure which is of the formula A Carbacyclin and its derivatives are chemically stable and have various physiological effects, including inhibition of blood platelet aggregation GB Patent Specification 2012265A, US Patent 4238414 . Compounds such as those of formula B below are now being developed as therapeutic agents for the treatment of thrombosis. More generally, the literature, such as GB Patent Specification 2012265A, US Patent 4238414 and US Patent 4338457, discloses that compounds of the formula B , wherein the group R is an alkenyl group, have a variety of actions, including inhibition of blood platelet aggregation, anti ulcer activity, inhibition of gastric juice secretion, and bronchodilatory activity. GB A 2013661 and EP A 11591 both disclose a very broad range of compounds having anti ulcer activity, including some having the usual carbacyclin substituents, and wherein the 2 side chain is selected from a large group having 0, 1 or 2 unsaturated positions, while Chem. Abs. 22363t discloses compounds saturated at the 2,3 or 3,4 positions, but not at the 1 position in the 2 substituent, and the carbacyclin ring is not fully saturated, where the 7 substituent is. The present invention provides carbacyclin derivatives with pharmacologically useful activity, especially anti ulcer action. The carbacyclin derivatives of this invention are compounds of the general formula I wherein R¹ represents a hydrogen atom or an alkyl group having from 1 to 10 carbon atoms R² represents a hydrogen atom or a methyl group and R³ represents a 3 butenyl group, a 4 pentenyl group or a 5 methyl 4 hexenyl group . The carbacyclin derivatives of this invention further include the pharmaceutically acceptable salts of the compounds of formula I . The present invention further embraces pharmaceutical compositions of the carbacyclin derivatives of the invention, particularly in view of their potent anti ulcer activity. The anti ulcer activity of the carbacyclin derivatives of this invention is particularly remarkable when compared with that of the structurally similar compounds which are disclosed in the state of the art and which are of the formula B given above wherein the group R is 2 pentenyl, 2,6 dimethyl 5 heptenyl, or the like. It is to be noted that the compounds of general formula I wherein the group R² is methyl also weakly exhibit other physiological effects shown by known carbacyclin derivatives, such as inhibition of blood platelet aggregation. Examples of alkyl groups which may be represented by R¹ include the methyl, ethyl, propyl, isopropyl, butyl, pentyl, hexyl, heptyl, octyl, nonyl and decyl groups, with the methyl group being particularly preferred. Preferred compounds of formula I include those compounds wherein R¹ is a hydrogen atom or a methyl group, and R² and R³ as are defined above. Other preferred compounds of formula I include those compounds wherein R² is a methyl group, and R¹ and R³ are as defined above. Also preferred compounds of formula I include those compounds wherein R³ is a 3 butenyl or 4 pentenyl group, especially a 4 pentenyl group, and R¹ and R² are as defined above. Especially preferred compounds are those compounds wherein R² is a methyl group, and those compounds wherein R³ is a 3 butenyl or 4 pentenyl group, more particularly a 4 pentenyl group. Examples of the pharmacologically acceptable salts of this invention include the alkali metal and alkaline earth metal salts, such as the sodium, potassium, magnesium or calcium salts the ammmonium salt quaternary ammonium salts, such as the tetramethylammonium, tetraethylammonium, benzyltrimethylammonium or phenyltriethylammonium salts salts with an aliphatic, alicyclic or araliphatic amine, such as the salts with methylamine, ethylamine, dimethylamine, diethylamine, trimethylamine, triethylamine, If desired, a carbacyclin derivative of this invention can be used in the form of a clathrate compound with a host compound such as α , β or γ cyclodextrin. The carbacyclin derivatives of this invention exist as optical isomers, due to the presence of asymmetric carbon atoms. The carbacyclin derivatives of formula I also exist as geometrical isomers, due to the double bonds. The preferred isomers have the steric configuration of carbacyclin itself and are of the following formula Ia wherein R¹, R² and R³ as previously defined . Examples of preferred carbacyclin derivatives of this invention are the compounds of formula I , and their salts. where R¹, R² and R³ are as defined in the following table Especially preferred carbacyclin derivatives of this invention are Compounds No. 3, 5, 7 and 8 listed above. The listed carbacyclin derivatives preferably take the form of the isomer which is in agreement with the general formula Ia given above. Thus, the particularly preferred carbacyclin derivatives of this invention are The carbacyclin derivatives of the present invention have low toxicity and typically possess a good anti ulcer activity. The effectiveness of the compounds of this invention is particularly noteworthy in comparison with existing prostacyclins. According to a method reported by Brodie and Chase Gastroenterology The reference compounds were as follows The results show that the carbacyclin derivatives of the present invention have, at a concentration of 30 γ kg, an inhibition rate around 3 times higher than the rate of the other, reference compounds. It is apparent that the carbacyclin derivatives of the present invention have useful anti ulcer activity. When the compound of Preparative Example 1 was intravenously administered to five rats at 10 mg per kg of body weight per rat, no deaths occurred. This favourable acute toxicity test indicates that the toxicity of the compounds of this invention is very low. Thus, the compounds of the general formula I and pharmacologically acceptable salts thereof are of pharmaceutical use, especially for the therapeutic and preventive treatment of ulcers. The present invention accordingly provides pharmaceutical compositions comprising a carbacyclin derivative of general formula I or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, together with a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier or diluent. The compounds of the invention may be formulated as conventional pharmaceutical formulations, the nature of which will depend on the preferred route of administration. For example, for oral administration, preferred formulations include tablets, capsules, granules, powders and syrups. Non oral administration may be, for example, by intravenous injection. The daily dose may vary depending on the symptoms, age and body weight of the patient, as well as the nature and severity of the disorder to be treated. Usually from about 0.001 mg to about 1000 mg, preferably from about 0.01 mg to about 100 mg, is administered per day for an adult, in a single dose or in divided doses. The carbacyclin derivatives of this invention can be prepared by adaption of existing methods, for example by adaption of the method described in GB Patent Specification 2012265. Thus, the compounds of the general formula I of this invention may be made by the steps shown in the following reaction scheme In this reaction scheme, R¹, R² and R³ are as defined above, R⁴ and R⁵ are the same or different and each represents a hydroxy protecting group, and Z represents a carbonyl protecting group. Examples of hydroxy protecting groups which may be represented by R⁴ and R⁵ include, for instance heterocyclic groups, such as the tetrahydropyranyl or 4 methoxytetrahydropyran 4 yl groups substituted methyl groups, such as the methoxymethyl or benzyloxymethyl groups and silyl groups, such as the dimethyl t butylsilyl group. Examples of carbonyl protecting groups which may be represented by Z include, for instance, groups giving acetal formation, with Z either being a single divalent group or two monovalent groups. Thus, examples of carbonyl protecting groups for Z include alkylenedioxy or alkylenedithio groups having from 1 to 4 carbon atoms, such as the ethylenedioxy or ethylenedithio groups and gem dialkoxy groups where each alkoxy group has from 1 to 4 carbon atoms such as the gem dimethoxy or gem diethoxy groups. The first step in the reaction scheme involves preparing an enone compound having the general formula III . To this end, a formyl compound having the general formula II can be reacted with an anion having the general formula VII wherein R² and R³ are as defined above, R⁶ represents an alkyl group of 1 to 4 carbon atoms, and M represents an alkali metal . The anion of formula VII can easily be obtained from a compound of general formula VI where R², R³ and R⁶ are as defined above by reaction with a base for example, an alkali metal compound such as sodium hydride or n butyllithium . The reaction with the base is typically effected at around room temperature for from 1 to 3 hours. The second step in the reaction scheme involves preparing a ketone compound having the general formula IV . This step can be achieved by reducing the unprotected carbonyl group of the compound III and removing the protecting group Z from the other, remaining carbonyl group. The reduction of the unprotected carbonyl group gives an alcohol, which is itself conveniently protected with the group R⁵ after removal of the carbonyl protecting group Z. If desired, the protecting group R⁴ employed in the compound III can be removed as part of this second step, and then reprotection effected when introducing the protecting group R⁵. The reduction of the carbonyl group can be carried out, for example, by reacting the compound III with a reducing agent for instance, a metal hydride compound such as sodium borohydride, sodium borocyanohydride or lithium trimethoxyaluminohydride in an inert solvent for example, an alcohol such as methanol at from 0 C to room temperature for from 30 minutes to 3 hours. The conditions for removing the carbonyl protecting group Z vary depending on the nature of the protecting group to be removed. If the protecting group is a gem dialkoxy or alkylenedioxy group, it can be removed by treating the compound with a mixture of an acid and an aqueous solvent, such as acetic acid water, dilute hydrochloric acid aqueous acetone, dilute hydrochloric acid aqueous acetonitrile, dilute sulphuric acid aqueous acetone or boron trifluoride etherate aqueous acetone. If the protecting group is an alkylenedithio group, it can be removed by treating the compound with a suitable mercury reagent, such as mercuric chloride or mercuric oxide, in an inert solvent for example, an ether such as dioxane, tetrahydrofuran or diethyl ether . The removal of the group Z is conveniently carried out at around room temperature for from 1 to 15 hours. The conditions for introducing the hydroxy protecting group R⁵ will also vary depending on the nature of the protecting group. If the desired protecting group is a heterocyclic group, reaction can be carried out by treatment with a heterocyclic compound, such as dihydropyran or 4 methoxydihydropyran, in the presence of an acid for example, hydrochloric acid, trifluoroacetic acid or The third step in the reaction scheme involves preparing a carbacyclin compound having the general formula V . It can be carried out by treating the compound IV with a Wittig reagent of the general formula VIII where R¹ is as defined above and R⁷ represents an alkyl group having from 1 to 4 carbon atoms or an aryl group such as a phenyl group . The reaction with the Wittig reagent is suitably effected in an inert solvent for example, an ether such as tetrahydrofuran, an aromatic hydrocarbon such as toluene, or a sulphoxide such as dimethyl sulphoxide , preferably in a stream of an inert gas such as nitrogen or argon. The Wittig reagent of general formula VIII can itself be prepared by treating a compound of the general formula IX where R¹ and R⁷ are as defined above, and X represents a halogen atom such as chlorine or bromine with a base, for example, an alkali metal hydride such as sodium hydride, an alkali metal alkoxide such as sodium ethoxide or potassium t butoxide, or an alkali metal dimethylsulphoxide anion such as sodium dimethylsulphoxide dimsyl anion, typically around room temperature for from 1 to 24 hours. The fourth step in the reaction scheme involves preparing a desired carbacyclin compound having the general formula I . This step can be achieved by removing the hydroxy protecting groups R⁴ and R⁵ from the compound V . The conditions for the removal depend on the nature of the protecting group to be removed. If the protecting group is a heterocyclic or substituted methyl group, removal can be achieved by treatment with an acid for example, an organic acid such as acetic acid, trifluoroacetic acid, A compound of general formula I wherein R¹ is a hydrogen atom may then readily be converted to give a pharmacologically acceptable salt, for example by conventional salification. A compound of the general formula I in which R¹ is a hydrogen atom can be converted into a compound I in which R¹ is an alkyl group by conventional esterification. Esterification may be performed for example with a diazoalkane such as diazomethane, diazoethane or diazopropane, or with an alcohol mineral acid such as methanol hydrochloric acid, ethanol hydrochloric acid or pentanol hydrochloric acid. Correspondingly, a compound I in which R¹ is an alkyl group can be converted into a compound I in which R¹ is a hydrogen atom by conventional hydrolysis. Hydrolysis may be performed, for example, by reaction with an alkali metal hydroxide in an aqueous solvent, such as sodium hydroxide aqueous methanol. A compound in which R¹ is an alkyl group can, if desired, be converted into a compound in which R¹ is another alkyl group by conventional ester exchange. Ester exchange may be performed, for example, by reaction with an alcohol in the presence of a base such as potassium carbonate. At the completion of each step in the reaction scheme the respective product can be isolated from the reaction mixture by conventional means. For example, after completion of a reaction step, the reaction mixture may, if appropriate, be neutralized or acidified, and then extracted with a suitable organic solvent. Such an extract can be washed and dried, and the product obtained by distilling off the solvent. The product at each step can if necessary be purified by conventional means such as column chromatography, thin layer chromatography and or recrystallization. Where the product is obtained as a mixture of geometric and or optical isomers, the isomers can be separated and resolved at any suitable step of the reaction scheme. The present invention is illustrated by the following non limiting examples. 482 mg of sodium hydride a 55 dispersion in mineral oil was washed with hexane and mixed with 100 ml of anhydrous tetrahydrofuran. The resultant suspension was cooled on an ice bath, 3.12 g of dimethyl 2 oxo 3 methyl 7 octenylphosphonate were added, and the mixture was stirred for 40 minutes. The solution was ice cooled and 2.69 g of 2β formyl 3α 2 tetrahydropyranyloxy 7,7 ethylenedioxy 1020, 1120, 1626, 1668, 1692 1.07 3H, doublet 3.05 g of the enone compound prepared as described in Preparative Example 1 a dissolved in 23 ml of methanol were added to 3.26 g of cerium chloride heptahydrate dissolved in 25 ml of methanol at from 0 to 5 C. 470 mg of sodium borohydride were then added at from 0 to 3 C to the reaction solution, whilst stirring, and the mixture stirred for a further 30 minutes at the same temperature. At the end of this time, water was added and the system was extracted with ethyl acetate. The extract was washed with a saturated aqueous solution of sodium chloride and dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate. After distilling off the solvent, 3.01 g of the title compound were obtained as an oil. 1020, 1120, 1640, 3475 0.89 3H, multiplet 2.97 g of the hydroxy compound prepared as described in Preparative Example 1 b were dissolved in 6 ml of tetrahydrofuran, and 6.1 ml of acetic acid and 11 ml of water were added to the solution. The resultant mixture was then stirred at from 45 to 50 C for 2.5 hours. During this stirring, 20 ml of water divided into 8 aliquots were added. After cooling of the reaction solution, a 20 w v aqueous sodium hydroxide solution was added to give neutrality, further saturated aqueous sodium chloride solution was added, and the system was extracted with ethyl acetate. The organic layer was washed with a saturated aqueous sodium chloride solution and dried over anhydrous sodium sulphate. Evaporation of the solvent gave 2.61 g of a residue, which was purified by column chromatography using 78 g of silica gel. The fraction eluted with hexane containing from 38 to 44 by volume ethyl acetate gave 591 mg of the 2β 3β hydroxy compound as an oil the fraction eluted with hexane containing from 44 to 54 by volume ethyl acetate gave 279 mg of a mixture of the 2β 3α hydroxy and 2β 3β hydroxy compounds and the fraction eluted with hexane containing from 54 to 95 by volume ethyl acetate gave 937 mg of the 2β 3α hydroxy compound as an oil. 1640, 1738, 3400 0.86 3H, multiplet 1640, 1730, 3400 0.90 3H, doublet 900 mg of the 2β 3α hydroxy compound prepared as described in Preparative Example 1 c were dissolved in 15 ml of methylene chloride. The solution was added to 0.85 ml of dihydropyran. While cooling the solution with ice, 10 mg of 1020, 1030, 1130, 1640, 1740 0.86 3H, multiplet Dimsyl sodium, which had been previously prepared from 1.25 g of sodium hydride 55 dispersion in mineral oil and 80 ml of dimethyl sulphoxide, was dissolved in dimethyl sulphoxide. Under a stream of nitrogen, 8.65 g of triphenyl 4 carboxybutylphosphonium bromide were added. After stirring the mixture for 20 minutes, 25 ml of dimethyl sulphoxide containing 1.46 g of the ketone compound prepared as described in Preparative Example 1 d was added, and the mixture was allowed to stand overnight. At the end of this time, 30 ml of ice water, 50 ml of cyclohexane and 1.0 ml of concentrated hydrochloric acid were added in this order and the layers were separated. The aqueous layer was extracted with cyclohexane, and the combined organic layers were washed with a saturated aqueous sodium chloride solution, and then dried over anhydrous sodium sulphate. After distilling off the solvent, 2.62 g of the resulting residue was purified by column chromatography using 40 g of silica gel. The fraction eluted with hexane containing from 13 to 15 by volume ethyl acetate gave 345 mg of the 5Z isomer then the fraction eluted with hexane containing from 15 to 19 by volume ethyl acetate gave 107 mg of a mixture of the 5Z isomer and the 5E isomer and finally the fraction eluted with hexane containing from 20 to 55 by volume ethyl acetate gave 804 mg of the 5E isomer as an oil. 973, 1640, 1708, 1740 0.90 3H, multiplet 974, 1020, 1640, 1708, 1736 0.90 3H, multiplet 10 ml of water and 40 mg of camphorsulphonic acid were added to 23 ml of acetone containing 750 mg of the 5E isomer of the dipyranyl compound prepared as described in Preparative Example 1 e . The resultant solution was heated and stirred at about 60 C for 90 minutes. At the end of this time, 25 ml of water was added and the system was extracted with ethyl acetate. The extract was washed with water and dried over anhydrous sodium sulphate. After distilling off the solvent, the resulting residue was purified by column chromatography using 13 g of silica gel. The fractions eluted with hexane containing 40 by volume ethyl acetate and subsequently with ethyl acetate gave 338 mg of the title compound as an oil. 1640, 1708, 3340 0.86 3H, multiplet A corresponding methyl ester was obtained by esterification of this compound with diazomethane. 970, 1640, 1735, 3370 From 439 mg of sodium hydride 55 dispersion in mineral oil , 2.95 g of dimethyl 2 oxo 3 methyl 6 octenylphosphonate and 2.60 g of 2β formyl 3α 2 tetrahydropyranyloxy 7,7 ethylenedioxy 1030, 1120, 1622, 1668, 1694 1.10 3H, doublet From 3.53 g of cerium chloride heptahydrate, 507 mg of sodium borohydride and 3.19 g of the enone compound prepared in Preparative Example 2 a , 3.15 g of the title compound were obtained as an oil by similar reaction and treatment to those described in Preparative Example 1 b . 1020, 1120, 1640, 3480 0.90 3H, multiplet From 3.12 g of the hydroxy compound prepared in Preparative Example 2 b and 6.6 ml of acetic acid, 970 mg of oily 2β 3α hydroxy compound and 535 mg of oily 2β 3β hydroxy compound were obtained by similar reaction and treatment to those described in Preparative Example 1 c . 1640, 1738, 3400 0.89 3H, multiplet 1640, 1730, 3400 0.88 3H, doublet From 900 mg of the 2β 3a hydroxy compound prepared in Preparative Example 2 c and 0.89 ml of dihydropyran, 1.51 g of the crude title compound was obtained as an oil by similar reaction and treatment to those described in Preparative Example 1 d . 970, 1020, 1032, 1130, 1640, 1740 0.90 3H, multiplet From 1.39 g of sodium hydride 55 dispersion in mineral oil , 64 ml of dimethyl sulphoxide, 9.35 g of triphenyl 4 carboxybutylphosphonium bromide and 1.58 g of the ketone compound prepared in Preparative Example 2 d , 695 mg of the title compound as an oil and 370 mg of its 5Z isomer were obtained by similar reaction and treatment to those described in Preparative Example 1 e . infrared absorption spectrum liquid ν nuclear magnetic resonance spectrum CDCℓ₃ δppm infrared absorption spectrum liquid ν From 665 mg of the dipyranyl 5E isomer prepared in Preparative Example 2 e , 345 mg of the title compound was obtained as an oil by similar reaction and treatment to those described in Preparative Example 1 f . 970, 1640, 1708, 3350 0.88 3H, multiplet From 440 mg of sodium hydride 55 dispersion in mineral oil , 3.30 g of dimethyl 2 oxo 3,3 dimethyl 7 octenyl phosphonate and 2.50 g of 2β formyl 3α 2 tetrahydropyranyloxy 7,7 ethylenedioxy 985, 1030, 1625, 1691 1.12 6H, singlet From 2.66 g of cerium chloride heptahydrate, 350 mg of sodium borohydride and 3.07 g of the enone compound prepared in Preparative Example 3 a , 3.03 g of the title compound were obtained as an oil by similar reaction and treatment to those described in Preparative Example 1 b . 975, 1022, 1641, 3490 0.85 3H, singlet From 3.03 g of the hydroxy compound prepared in Preparative Example 3 b and 30 ml of acetic acid, 1.31 g of oily 2β 3α hydroxy compound and 760 mg of oily 2β 3β hydroxy compound were obtained by similar reaction and treatment to those described in Preparative Example 1 c . 975, 1642, 1740, 3420 0.85 3H, singlet 974, 1641, 1740, 3420 From 1.29 g of the 2β 3α hydroxy compound prepared in Preparative Example 3 c and 1.15 ml of dihydropyran, 1.98 g of the crude title compound was obtained as an oil by similar reaction and treatment to those described in Preparative Example 1 d . 1022, 1034, 1642, 1742 0.7 1.0 6H, multiplet From 1.63 g of sodium hydride 55 dispersion in mineral oil , 100 ml of dimethyl sulphoxide, 10.12 g of triphenyl 4 carboxybutylphosphonium bromide and 1.97 g of the ketone compound prepared in Preparative Example 3 d , 1.06 g of the title compound as an oil and 0.6 g of its 5Z isomer were obtained by similar reaction and treatment to those described in Preparative Example 1 e . 980, 1645, 1714, 1741 0.7 1.0 6N, multiplet 980, 1645, 1714, 1741 1.05 g of the 5E isomer of the dipyranyl compound prepared in Preparative Example 3 e was dissolved in 21 ml of acetic acid. To this solution was added 5 ml of water, and the mixture was stirred at room temperature. After 30 minutes and again after 1 hour, 2.5 ml of water was added and the reaction solution was stirred for a further 14 hours. At the end of this time, 50 ml of a 20 w v aqueous sodium hydroxide solution was added, followed by a saturated aqueous sodium chloride solution, and the system was extracted with ethyl acetate. The extract was washed with a saturated solution of sodium chloride and dried over anhydrous sodium sulphate. After distilling off the solvent, the resulting residue was purified by silica gel column chromatography to give 0.56 g of the title compound as an oil. 970, 1640, 1710, 3380 0.86 3H, singlet The title compound was esterified with diazomethane to afford the corresponding methyl ester. 973, 1438, 1642, 1742, 3400 From 430 mg of sodium hydride 55 dispersion in mineral oil , 2.90 g of dimethyl 2 oxo 3,3 dimethyl 6 heptenylphosphonate and 2.60 g of 2β formyl 3α 2 tetrahydropyranyloxy 7,7 ethylenedioxy 985, 1030, 1625, 1690 1.12 6H, singlet From 3.52 g of cerium chloride heptahydrate, 508 mg of sodium borohydride and 3.09 g of the enone compound prepared in Preparative Example 4 a , 3.05 g of the title compound were obtained as an oil by similar reaction and treatment to those described in Preparative Example 1 b . 974, 1020, 1641, 3490 0.84 3H, singlet From 3.02 g of the hydroxy compound prepared in Preparative Example 4 b and 6.6 ml of acetic acid, 1.33 g of the 2β 3α hydroxy compound and 759 mg of the 2β 3β hydroxy compound were obtained, both as oils, by similar reaction and treatment to those described in Preparative Example 1 c . 975, 1641, 1740, 3421 0.84 3H, singlet 974, 1641, 1740, 3420 From 880 mg of the 2β 3α hydroxy compound prepared in Preparative Example 4 c and 0.86 ml of dihydropyran, 1.32 g of the crude title compound was obtained as an oil by similar reaction and treatment to those described in Preparative Example 1 d . 1022, 1034, 1642, 1741 nuclear magnetic resonance spectrum CDCℓ₃ δppm From 1.39 g of sodium hydride 55 dispersion in mineral oil , 60 ml of dimethyl sulphoxide, 9.39 g of triphenyl 4 carboxybutylphosphonium bromide and 1.31 g of the ketone compound prepared in Preparative Example 4 d , 659 mg of the title compound as an oil and 341 mg of its 5Z isomer were obtained by similar reaction and treatment to those described in Preparative Example 1 e . infrared absorption spectrum liquid ν nuclear magnetic resonance spectrum CDCℓ₃ δppm infrared absorption spectrum liquid ν From 630 mg of the 5E isomer of the dipyranyl compound prepared in Preparative Example 4 e , 314 mg of the title compound was obtained as an oil by similar reaction and treatment to those described in Preparative Example 3 f . 972, 1640, 1710, 3380 0.86 3H, singlet 200 mg of the methyl ester compound prepared in Preparative Example 1 f were dissolved in 2 ml of decyl alcohol. 100 mg of potassium carbonate were added and the mixture was stirred for 2 hours at 100 C. After cooling the reaction solution, an aqueous sodium chloride solution was added, and the system was extracted with ethyl acetate. The extract was washed with an aqueous sodium chloride solution and dried over anhydrous sodium sulphate. After distilling off the solvent, the residue was purified by silica gel column chromatography. The fraction eluted with hexane containing from 30 to 50 by volume ethyl acetate gave 209 mg of the title compound as an oil. 965, 1170, 1378, 1450, 1640, 1735 The same procedures as described in the above Preparative Example 1 a were followed, except that there were employed 483 mg of sodium hydride 55 dispersion in mineral oil , 3.48 g of dimethyl 2 oxo 3,8 dimethyl 7 nonenylphosphonate and 2.69 of 2β formyl 3α 2 tetrahydropynanyloxy 7,7 ethylenedioxy 1030, 1120, 1622, 1665, 1692. 1.10 3H, singlet The same procedures were followed as described in the above Preparative Example 1 b , except that there were employed 3.35 g of cerium chloride heptahydrate, 485 mg of sodium borohydride and 3.34 g of the enone prepared in Preparative Example 6 a , giving 3.34 g of the title product as an oily substance. 1020, 1120, 3475 0.90 3H, multiplet Following the same procedure as described in the above Preparative Example 1 c except that 3.29 g of the hydroxy compound prepared in Preparative Example 6 b and 8.3 ml of acetic acid were used, there were obtained 950 mg of the title product as an oily substance. 1738, 3400 0.93 3H, multiplet Following the same procedures as described in the above Preparative Example 1 d except that 910 mg of the 2β 3α hydroxy compound prepared in Preparative Example 6 c and 0.8 ml of dihydropyran were used, there were obtained 1.50 g of the crude title product as an oily substance. 966,1018,1032,1740 Following the same procedure as described in the above Preparative Example 1 e except that 1.45 g of sodium hydride 55 dispersion in mineral oil , 64 ml of dimethyl sulphoxide, 9.3 g of triphenyl 4 carboxybutylphosphonium bromide and 1.47 g of the ketone prepared as described in the Preparative Example 6 d were used, there were obtained 570 mg of the title product as an oily substance and 334 mg of its 5Z isomer. 1020, 1710, 1740 1020, 1710, 1740 Following the same procedure as described in the above Preparative Example 1 f , except that there were employed 540 mg of the dipyranyl compound prepared as described in the Preparative Example 6 e , there were obtained 223 mg of the title product as an oily substance. 970, 1704, 3350 0.88 3H, multiplet An example of a pharmaceutical composition of this invention is now given. 20 mg of the compound of Preparative Example 1 were dissolved in 20 g of ethanol, and the solution was well mixed with 100 g of lactose. Ethanol was distilled off under reduced pressure, and the resulting lactose mixture was used to fill 100 mg hard capsules containing the active ingredient at around 0.02 to give capsule preparations. If necessary, a little lubricant such as magnesium stearate may be employed.