# PROCESS FOR THE BIOTECHNOLOGICAL PREPARATION OF OPTICALLY ACTIVE ALPHA ARYLALKANOIC ACIDS

## Claims
Verfahren zur biotechnologischen Herstellung von alpha Arylalkansäuren, im Wesentlichen in Form eines optischen Isomers S , das darin besteht das racemische Ester R,S einer Alpha Arylalkansäure der Formel

## Description
The present invention concerns a process for the biotechnological preparation of arylalkanoic acids resolved in the form of optical S and R isomers. More particularly, the present invention relates to the biotechnological preparation of α arylalkanoic acids substantially in the form of an optical S isomer. Certain α arylalkanoic acids and, in particular, α arylpropionic acids used clinically as non steroidic anti inflammatory agents are for instance known from T.Y. Shen, Angew Chem., Int. Ed. Engl., 11, 460, 1972, Since said acids have a centre of a symmetry in position α, they present two optically active S and R enantiomeric forms. Moreover, it is also known from said article that the anti inflammatory activity of one of the enantiomers is greater than the activity of the other, as in the case of a large number of members of the class of α methyl arylacetic acids known by the trade marks Ibuprofen , Naproxen , Fenoprofen , etc. Usually, the S enantiomer develops an activity superior to that of the R enantiomer this is the case of Ibuprofen S.S. Adams et al., in Journal Pharm. Pharmacy 28, 256, 1976 or of Naproxen , for which the activity of the S enantiomer is about 28 times greater than that of the R enantiomer. It is likewise known to separate the optical isomers from said acids, see for example D.G. Kaiser et al., in J. Pharm. Science, 2, 269, 1976, and A. Frank and C. Rüchards in Chemistry Letters, 1431 1434, 1984. However, the known methods for resolving the two optical isomers are complicated, need costly optically active reactants, e.g. the kyral agents such as methylbenzylamine, and do not allow, in many cases, to achieve satisfactory yields, thereby proving unsuitable for use in industry. Consequently, there was a need for disposing of a method that would allow the resolution of the optical isomers of the above mentioned acids in a simple and inexpensive manner that would furthermore be efficient and industrially realizable. Thus, one object of the present invention is to provide a process for the separation of the optical isomers from the α arylalkanoic acids, in a simple and economical way which is industrially advantageous. A further object of the present invention is to obtain as efficiently as possible α arylalkanoic acids substantially in the form of their S optical isomers. It has now been found by the present Applicant that these and other objects are achieved by a biotechnological process of enzymatic asymmetric hydrolysis of the racemic esters of the α arylalkanoic acids, capable of supplying an acid rich in S form. The process of the invention consists in the use of an enzyme produced by a microorganism that is capable of asymmetrically hydrolysing the racemic ester of the above mentioned acids, i.e. capable of selectively hydrolysing the S enantiomer of the racemic ester, in order to yield an acid substantially in the S form, while leaving the ester in the R form substantially unaltered. The S acid may easily be separated from the R ester. Thus, a further object of the present invention is to provide a process for the biotechnological separation of α arylalkanoic acids, substantially in the form of an S optical isomer, consisting in reacting a racemic R,S ester of an α arylalkanoic acid of the formula wherein wherein The racemic esters of formula I may be prepared according to the conventional esterification processes, for example according to the following reactions The esterase which may be used according to the process of the present invention is a water soluble lipase and is produced by microorganisms. Particularly suitable for the purposes of this invention proved to be the lipase produced by the microorganism CANDIDA CYLINDRACEA filed under n 14830 with the American Type Culture Collection, USA ATCC . Said lipase is, furthermore, commercially available. The microorganism producing such a lipase may be grown on a liquid nutritional soil according to conventional procedures, for example by inoculating the microorganism into a sterilized liquid culture medium and causing to grow on an alternating shaker at between 20 C and 40 C for a period of 1 to 3 days. The asymmetric hydrolysis reaction of the racemic esters of formula I is carried out by vigorously stirring the mixture of racemic ester with raw or purified esterase which may be contained in a liquid such as water or in the same culture broth of the microorganism, or its extracts or concentrates, or with the suspensions of the microorganism cells. Alternatively, the enzyme to be used may be supported by a substrate of various nature, chosen according to the techniques of the Prior Art in that specific field. The process according to the present invention may be conducted at temperatures comprised between 10 and 60 C, but preferably comprised between 20 C and 40 C, while maintaining the pH value of the reaction mixture to values comprised between 5 and 9, but preferably comprised between 6 and 8, values at which the enzymes seem to develop the greatest activity. The pH of the reaction medium is maintained constant through the use of a buffer solution or by means of the neutralization of the acidity that is formed with a base such, as for example, KOH, NaOH, etc. The concentration of the starting racemic ester in the reaction mixture may vary from 1 to 20 by weight. The duration of the asymmetric hydrolysis reaction may vary from 5 to 64 hours, depending upon the specific activity of the enzyme used, which in general depends upon its degree of purity. At the end of the asymmetric hydrolysls reaction, the acid that has formed and is richly contained in the S isomer on the one part and the ester which is not reacted and is rich in the R isomer on the other part may be extracted from the reaction mixture by using water non miscible organic solvents such as, for example, methylene chloride, toluene, lygroine, ethyl ether and analogue solvents. From the organic extract thus obtained and successively concentrated, the acid, substantially in the S form may then be separated from the ester which is substantially in the R form, by passing the extract through a chromatographic column, using as a stationary phase, for example, a silica gel. Alternatively, the rich acid in the S enantiomer may be isolated through extracting it from the reaction mixture by means of basic washups, using for this purpose, for example, aqueous solutions of NaOH at 5 concentration or KOH at a 10 concentration. The unhydrolised ester which is rich in the R form and has been separated as indicated above, may then be subjected to a racemization by treating it with bases in a anhydrous medium and successively reutilizing it as starting material in the process of this invention, i.e. it may be further subjected to an enzymatic asymmetric hydrolysis treatment. In a more complicated and, in general, less convenient way, said R ester may be hydrolysed to R acid which, after suitable racemization and subsequent re esterification steps, will provide a S,R racemic ester which may be recycled for use in the process of the invention. To 100 ml of a buffer solution of 0.2M of NaHPO₄ and KH₂PO₄ at a pH of 7, were added 2.92 g of ethoxycarbomethyl ester of R,S 2 4 isobutylphenyl propionic acid, 400 mg of the lipase enzyme produced by the microorganism CANDIDA CYLINDRACEA marketed by SIGMA Chemical Co. USA, with 30 of proteins, and displaying an activity of 1400 2800 units per mg of protein . The mixture was vigorously stirred for 24 hours, at a temperature of 28 C. The mixture was then extracted with methylene chloride. This extract was analyzed for HPLC Erbasil RP 18, CH₃CN H₂O 75 25, 254 nm, UV detection and the conversion was calculated on the basis of the relationships or ratios between the peaks of the acid that had formed and those of the unreacted ester. The HPLC analyses have proved a conversion rate of 45 , equal to 90 of hydrolysis of the S form. The extract was concentrated and subjected to chromatography on column, using as a stationary phase a silica gel and as an eluent a hexane ether mixture in the ratio of 3 1. The structure of the acid was confirmed by the NMR analysis. The solid product thus obtained proved to have a melting point equal to 49 C and a rotatory power α 20 D 55.55 C 1, C₂H₅OH . The GLC analyses, as S α methylbenzamide derivative, have shown an optical purity 95 . To 100 ml of a 0.1M KCl solution were added 2.4 g of propargyl ester of the R,S 2 4 isobutylphenyl propionic acid, and 400 mg of the lipase enzyme produced by the microorganism CANDIDA CYLINDRACEA of example 1. The mixture was vigorously stirred maintaining the pH at a constant value of 6.8 with the addition of an aqueous solution of 0.5M KOH at a temperature of 37 C. After 48 hours, on the basis of the quantity of consumed KOH, it was found that the conversion rate to 2 4 isobutylphenyl propionic S acid was equal to about 40 . The successive separations and analyses were conducted in accordance with the procedures indicated in example 1. The solid product showed a α 20 D 54.9 C 1, C₂H₅OH and a melting point of 49 C. Into a flask of 500 cc capacity were placed 100 cc of culture soil prepared by dissolving 10 g of glucose, 5 grams of peptone, 3 g of malt extract and 2 g of yeast extract in 1 litre of H₂O, and the pH was then brought up to 6.5. After sterilization, the culture soil was inoculated with a SLANT of CANDIDA CYLINDRACEA A.T.C.C. n 14830 microorganism and was then put to incubate for 52 hours at 30 C in a rotary shaker revolving at 350 rpm. The pH of the reaction medium was then adjusted to value 7, using for this purpose an aqueous solution of 0.5M of KOH, to which were then added 2.92 g of ethoxycarbomethyl ester of the R,S 2 4 isobutylphenyl propionic acid. This mixture was thereupon subjected to stirring for 48 hours at a temperature of 30 C, while the pH was kept constant by the slow addition of an aqueous solution of 0.5M KOH. The successive separations and analyses where conducted in accordance with the procedures indicated in example 1. The S 2 4 isobutylphenyl propionic acid, obtained with a conversion rate of 38 , proved that α 20 D 53.2 C 1, C₂H₅OH and a melting point of 48 C. To 100 ml of a 0.3M buffer solution of phosphate NaHPO₄ KH₂PO₄ were added 3.2 g of cyanomethyl ester of 2 6 methoxy 2 naphthyl propionic acid, and 500 mg of the CANDIDA CYLINDRACEA enzyme of example 1. This mixture was then vigorously stirred for 52 hours at a temperature of 32 C. The analyses showed a conversion rate of the R,S racemic ester to the corresponding S acid equal to 40 . The separations and analyses were conducted in accordance with the procedures followed in example 1. The product thus obtained was crystallized from an acetone hexane mixture and found to have the following characteristics melting point m.p. 154 C α 20 D 65.14 C 1, CHCl₃ . Operating was carried out according to the procedures described in example 1 by using buffer solutions of NaHPO₄ and KH₂PO₄ with a pH 6.5, at a temperature of 32 C and with the reactants indicated on table I. The conversion rates corresponding to the S acids as indicated in table I were obtained, said conversion rates being calculated either with respect to the starting R,S racemic ester or with respect to the S ester. The optical purities of the acids thus obtained proved to be consistently greater than 90 .