# FOUNDRY MOLDING MACHINE AND METHOD

## Abstract
A foundry molding machine is provided with a pattern plate 86 surrounded by and movable in a well form 87 . In a preferred form springs 105, 106 bias the well form upwardly around the pattern plate to form a well. The pat tern plate and well form are mounted on a squeeze table 31 and cooperate with the underside of a conventional flask which in turn engages an upset 53 to form a mold chamber for receiving molding sand. In such preferred form the sand is blown under very low pressure into the chamber through a slotted squeeze head 47 . As the squeeze table moves upwardly, sand is initially squeezed from the top against the squeeze head while the flask, upset, well form and pattern plate move upwardly as a unit. When a selected level of the flask is reached, preferably when the top is flush with the squeeze head, upward movement of the upset is stopped while the table continues upwardly. The pattern plate then telescopes upwardly within the well form while the flask and well form are held fixed. This compresses the springs supporting the well form. The squeeze continues with the sand being compressed both from the squeeze head and from the pattern plate concurrently until the pat tern plate is just even with or slightly below the bottom of the flask. At such time, the table moves down for draw as the springs extend and to permit the mold to clear the machine. Other forms of the present invention provide em bodiments utilizing a dumpfill 155 of the flask in combina tion with an equalizing cylinder squeeze head 156 . In yet another embodiment, the well form may be mounted by a piston cylinder assembly 221 222 for movement indepen dently of the pattern plate thus enabling the depth of the well to be adjusted between cycles.