# SEPARATION DEVICE FOR SEPARATING GRANULES FROM DISHWATER

## Claims
Trenneinrichtung zum Entfernen von Körnern aus Spülwasser, insbesondere für eine für große Gegenstände geeignete Geschirrspülmaschine, bei der Körner dem Spülwasser zumischbar und aus diesem wieder entfernbar sind, wobei in der Trenneinrichtung ein Trennmittel mit einer Ventilvorrichtung 51 zusammenarbeitet, die in einer ersten Position die Körner und das Spülwasser direkt in die Pumpenzuleitung abläßt und in einer zweiten Position die Flüssigkeit samt der Körner zu dem Trennmittel 48 drängt, so daß die Körner ausgefiltert werden und die Flüssigkeit ohne die Körner zur Pumpenleitung weiterfließt,

## Description
The present invention relates to a separation device for separating granules from dishwater in a dishwasher, especially in a dishwasher for large articles as claimed according to EP A 0126 760 and WO A 8402068, disclosed in US A 4 374 443. Separation devices of the kind indicated in the preamble of the accompanying Claim 1 for separating particles of dirt from dishwater are disclosed in CH A 413 259 and US A 2621 505. When washing and cleaning large and heavy articles in a dishwasher it is suitable and known to use dishwater mixed with an additive of granulate to increase the washing effect. This granulate, for instance made of plastic helps to remove burned on food from the articles. This granulate follows with the dishwater when washing and performs the above mentioned effect. At the end of the washing programme the granules are separated from the dishwater, so that only dishwater without granules rinses off the articles. The invention proposes a new separation device as revealed in the claims. In the final phase of washing, it is desirable to spray liquid without granules to rinse the articles free of granules, and for this the separation device is set for separating out granules. The new separation device according to the invention eliminates the risk of granules clogging the separation means such as a straining cloth or a perforated or slotted plate by virtue of the fact that the liquid with granules is drawn up against the underside of the straining cloth or perforated or slotted plate and granules with a larger specific weight than the liquid will, due to their own weight, tend to sink down against the effect of the flow forces. These and other advantages of the invention will be explained in more detail with reference to an embodiment shown in the accompanying drawings of a dishwasher with a separation device according to the invention with the various new features. Fig. 1 is a schematic section through a bottom drain with a separating device for separating out granules from the dishwasher with the device set to separate out the granules. Fig. 2 shows a device set to allow the granules to pass out together with the liquid in a conduit to the dishwasher pump. Fig. 3 is a detailed view of the mounting of the separating means. If washing is to be done with the aid of granules, it is advisable to use a bottom valve of the construction shown in Figs. 1 3. This bottom valve forms a separation device which when in the position shown in Fig. 1 causes the granules to be stopped by their own weight when moving against the underside of a separating means in the form of an annular straining cloth 48 stretched between an outer ring 49 and an inner ring 50. The granules then fall down to a bottom tank about a vertically movable pipe or valve ring 51, which is in Fig. 1 in its lower end position closing a gap 52 at the lower end of the valve ring 51. At the upper end of the ring 51, liquid passes through the straining cloth 48 and down through the ring to the pump conduit. A roof 53 is arranged on top of the valve ring 51 and has a downwardly directed edge 54. The outer ring 49 is fixed on the inside of said edge 54 in a groove, while the inner ring 50 is fixed in a groove at the upper end of the valve ring 51. This mounting of the straining cloth 48 prevents granules from lodging in a gap between these parts which are movable relative to each other, thus reducing the need for maintenance and assuring reliability of operation. When the valve ring 51 is lifted with the aid of a servo control lifting device 55 to its upper position, the flow through the straining cloth 48 is completely or partially cut off and the liquid with granules flows freely out through the lower gap 52 directly into the pump conduit as shown in Fig. 2. The ring 51 is loaded by tensions springs 56 which keep the ring 51 in contact with the bottom of the tank in the position shown in Fig. 1. An electric motor 57 turns an arm 58 in either direction. From the position shown in Fig. 1, the ring 51 is rotated so that the pin 59 on the ring rides up on a cam 60 thus lifting the ring 51 to the position shown in Fig. 2. Rotating the ring 51 in the opposite direction causes the ring 51 to be lowered to the position shown in Fig. 1. If the separating means 48 is a perforated plate or the like, its inner edge 50 will be slidably disposed about the valve ring 51 so that the ring can slide up and down relative to the annular separating means 48. The outer edge of this annular separating means is fixed to the roof 53.