# IMIDE DERIVATIVES, THEIR PRODUCTION AND USE

## Claims
Patentansprüche für folgende Vertragsstaaten BE, CH, DE, FR, GB, IT, LI, NL, SE

## Description
The present invention relates to imide derivatives, and their production and use. More particularly, it relates to novel imide derivatives, their production processes and their use as antipsychotic agents. The imide derivatives of this invention are representable by the formula wherein in which E is a methylene group, an ethylene group or an oxygen atom and a full line accompanying a broken line in which F is a methylene group or an ethylene group and a full line accompanying a broken line in which R¹, R², R³, R⁴, R⁵ and R⁶ are each a hydrogen atom or a methyl group when A represents a carbonyl group, or B is a 1,2 phenylene group when A represents a sulfonyl group As the antipsychotic agents, particularly neuroleptics, there have heretofore been used tricyclic compounds such as chlorpromazine 2 chloro N,N dimethyl 10H phenothiazine 10 propanamine , butyrophenone compounds such as haloperidol 4 4 4 chloeophenyl 4 hydroxy 1 piperidinyl 1 4 fluorophenyl 1 butanone , etc.. However, these conventional neuroleptics produce serious side effects such as catalepsy and hypotension, which cause a great problem on their clinical use. In recent years, some spiroimide compounds have been developed as neuroleptics partly overcoming the drawbacks as seen in conventional neuroleptics. Their typical examples are buspirone 8 4 2 pyrimidinyl 1 piperazinylbutyl 8 azaspiro 4,5 decane 7,9 dione and Tiaspirone 8 4 3 benzisothiazolyl 1 piperazinylbutyl 8 azaspiro 4,5 decane 7,9 dione . These spiroimide compounds are alleviated in extrapyramidal side effects such as catalepsy inducing activity in comparison with butyrophenone compounds such as haloperidol. Further, tiaspirone shows anti dopamine activity, as an indication of neuroleptic activity, stronger than chlorpromazine and nearly equal to haloperidol by intraperitoneal administration in anti climbing behavior test using apomorphine. Surprisingly, however, the anti dopamine activity of tiaspirone is drastically reduced by oral administration. Some imide derivatives having a pyridyl, pyrimidinyl or phenyl group as the substituent on the piperazine moiety are disclosed in EP A 082402 as selective antianxiety drugs . As the result of an extensive study, it has now been found that the imide derivatives I of the invention exhibit excellent neuroleptic activity with less extrapyramidal side effect. Their anti dopamine activity as an indication of neuroleptic activity is not lowered even when administered orally. This invention is based on the above finding. Accordingly, a main object of the present invention is to provide the imide derivatives I and their pharmaceutically acceptable acid addition salts. Another obejct of this invention is to provide processes for production of the imide derivatives I . A further object of the invention is to provide use of the imide derivatives I as antipsychotic drugs, particularly neuroleptics. The imide derivatives I can be produced by various processes, of which typical examples are set forth below. The process comprises the following reaction wherein G is O and J is G is NH and J is G is N CH₂ D CH₂ X and J is or G is and J is X , X, X and X are each a leaving group such as halogen e.g. chlorine, bromine, iodine , alkylsulfonyloxy e.g. methanesulfonyloxy or arylsulfonyloxy e.g. p toluenesulfonyloxy and A, B, D and n are each as defined above. Thus, the above process covers the following four procedures wherein A, B, D, G, J, n, X, X and X are each as defined above. In general, the process A is carried out by reacting both of the starting compounds in any inert solvent at such a temperature that the reaction can proceeds. The presence of an acid binding agent may be preferred depending upon the kinds of the starting materials. In Procedure 1, the compound I is obtained by reacting the compound II with the compound III in an inert solvent e.g. pyridine, n butanol, benzene, toluene, xylene , preferably at reflux temperature. In Procedure 2, the compound I may be prepared by reacting the compound IV with the compound V in an inert solvent e.g. benzene, toluene, xylene, dimethylformamide, acetonitrie, n butanol in the presence of an acid binding agent, preferably at room temperature or under heating. As the acid binding agent, there may be used an organic or inorganic base, of which examples are tertiary amines e.g. triethylamine, pyridine , alkali metal or alkaline earth metal carbonates e.g. sodium carbonate, potassium carbonate , alkali metal or alkaline earth metal bicarbonates e.g. sodium bicarbonate, potassium bicarbonate , alkali metal or alkaline earth metal hydrides e.g. sodium hydride, potassium hydride , etc. In Procedure 3, the compound I is obtainable by reacting the compound VIII with the compound IX in an inert solvent e.g. benzene, toluene, xylene, dimethylformamide, acetonitrile, n butanol in the presence of an acid binding agent, preferably at room temperature or under heating. As the acid binding agent, there may be used an organic or inorganic base as exemplified above. In Procedure 4, the compound I is prepared by reacting the compound X with the compound XI in an inert solvent e.g. benzene, toluene, xylene, dimethylformamide, acetonitrile, n butanol in the presence of an acid binding agent, preferably at room temperature or under heating. As the acid binding agent, there may be employed an organic or inorganic base as exemplified above. The starting compounds II , III , IV , V , VIII , IX , X and XI in the above Process A are known per se or can be produced by any per se conventional procedure. For instance, the compound II is described in the following literatures and thus known JP A 87262 1985 J.Am.Chem.Soc., The compounds IV , VIII and X can be produced from the compound II by the procedures as described in EP A 0109562, JP A 23373 1985, JP A 87262 1985 and JP A 87284 1985 according to the following scheme wherein A, B, D, X and n are each as defined above. The compounds III , V , IX and XI can be produced according to the following scheme wherein X is a leaving group and D, X, X and n are each as defined above. The compound XI is obtainable from the compound XXI through the compounds XXII and XXIII according to the method as described in Chem. Ber., The compound III may be produced from the compound XXV through the compounds VIII and VI according to the methods as described in JP A 87262 1985 and JP A 216858 1984. The compound V may be obtained by reacting the compound IX as above prepared with the compound V . The reaction proceeds as shown in the following scheme wherein D is an ethenylene group or an ethynylene group and A, B and n are each as defined above. The compound XIII is obtainable by hydrogenation of the compound XII . Hydrogenation may be carried out by any conventional procedure. For instance, catalytic hydrogenation in the presence of a catalyst can be effectively adopted. As the catalyst, there may be used any conventional one such as a metal catalyst e.g. platinum, palladium, rhodium, nickel, cobalt optionally supported on a carrier i.e. carbon . Preferably, the reaction is effected in an inert solvent such as benzene, toluene, xylene, methanol, ethanol, ether, tetrahydrofuran, dioxane or ethyl acetate. The reaction can proceed at an ordinary temperature under a normal pressure and may be accelerated by heating and or pressurization. When desired, the reaction may be controlled by cooling. The reaction is completed by absorption of a theoretical amount of hydrogen. The reaction mixture thus obtained may be subjected to post treatment by a per se conventional procedure so as to recover the product therefrom, optionally followed by purification. The starting compound XII is obtainable by either one of Processes A , C and D . The reaction proceeds in the following way wherein A, B and n are each as defined above. The compound XV is obtainable by subjecting the compound XIV , the compound IX and formaldehyde to the Mannich reaction in an inert solvent. In the reaction, a metallic ion plays a role as the catalyst. Particularly, copper chloride, copper sulfate, copper acetate or iron chloride is useful for this purpose. As the inert solvent, there may be employed water, dioxane, tetrahydrofuran, ether, methylene glycol dimethyl ether, methyl cellosolve, etc. The reaction may be accelerated by heating at a temperature of not higher than the refluxing temperature or controlled by cooling. The starting compounds XIV and IX are obtainable by Process A . The reaction proceeds as shown in the following scheme wherein A, B and n are each as defined above. The compound XVI is produced by catalytic hydrogenation of the compound XY . The catalytic hydrogenation may be carried out by treatment of the compound XV with hydrogen in the presence of a catalyst, preferably in a liquid medium so as to attain the absorption of an equimolar amount of hydrogen. As the catalyst, there may be employed any one conventionally used for hydrogenation, and its examples are platinum, palladium, rhodium, nickel, cobalt, etc. There may be also employed as the catalyst such a partial reduction catalyst having lesser catalytic activity as palladium calcium carbonate or palladium barium sulfate. When desired, the partial reduction catalyst as stated above may be further poisoned with an amine, a sulfur compound or a lead compound so as to reduce its catalytic activity. A typical example is Lindlar catalyst. The catalytic hydrogenation is normally effected in an inert solvent such as benzene, toluene, hexane, methanol, ethanol, diethyl ether, tetrahydrofuran or ethyl acetate. The reaction can proceed at an ordinary ambient temperature under an ordinary ambient pressure, but it may be effected at an elevated temperature and or under an elevated pressure. If necessary, the reaction may be performed under a controlled condition, e.g. under cooling. After completion of the reaction, the reaction mixture may be subjected to post treatment by a per se conventional procedure so as to recover the product. The starting compound XY is obtainable by either Process A or C . The process comprises the following reaction wherein either one of M and L is and the other is a hydrogen atom, either one of Y and Y is a hydroxyl group and the other is a hydrogen atom, and A, B and n are each as defined above. Thus, the above process covers the following two procedures wherein A, B and n are each as defined above. The compound XVIII is obtained by reacting the compound XVII with the compound IX in an inert solvent, preferably at a refluxing temperature. Examples of the inert solvent are benzene, toluene, xylene, dimethylformamide, acetonitrile, n butanol, etc. The starting compounds XVII and IX may be prepared according to Process A . wherein A, B and n are each as defined above. The compound XX is obtained by reacting the compound IV with the compound XIX in an inert solvent in the presence of a base, preferably at room temperature or under heating. Examples of the inert solvent are benzene, toluene, xylene, dimethylformamide, acetonitrile, n butanol, etc. As the base, there may be exemplified an organic or inorganic base such as a tertiary amine e.g. triethylamine, pyridine , an alkali metal or alkaline earth metal carbonate e.g. sodium carbonate, potassium carbonate , an alkali metal or alkaline earth metal bicarbonate e.g. sodium bicarbonate, potassium bicarbonate or an alkali metal or alkaline earth metal hydride e.g. sodium hydride, potassium hydride . The starting compounds IV and XIX may be prepared according to Process A . wherein A, B, D and n are each as defined above. The compound I is obtained by oxidation of the compound XXIV . The oxidation may be carried out by treatment of the compound XXIV with an oxidizing agent in an inert solvent, if necessary, under heating or cooling. Examples of the oxidizing agent are organic peracids e.g. perbenzoic acid, m chloroperbenzoic acid, monoperoxyphthalic acid, performic acid, peracetic acid, pertrifluoroacetic acid , hydrogen peroxide, manganese dioxide, chromic acid, periodic acid, N halogenated carboxylic acid amide, potassium permanganate, etc. The inert solvent may be chosen from hydrocarbons e.g. pentane, cyclohexane, benzene, toluene , halogenated hydrocarbons e.g. carbon tetrachloride, chloroform, methylene dichloride, chlorobenzene , alcohols e.g. methanol, ethanol, butanol , acetic acid, diethyl ether, pyridine, acetone, dimethylformamide, dimethylsulfoxide, etc. The starting compound XXIV can be prepared by Process A . The imide derivatives I of the invention can be combined with various kinds of acids to form their acid addition salts. Examples of the acids are hydrochloric acid, hydrobromic acid, hydroiodic acid, sulfuric acid, acetic acid, oxalic acid, citric acid, malic acid, lactic acid, fumaric acid, maleic acid, etc. Treatment of the acid addition salts with alkalis can afford the imide derivatives I in a free base form. As stated above, the imide derivatives I of the invention exert a significant neuroleptic activity. Yet, they show only a very weak extrapyramidal activity which is a typical side effect as generally observed in conventional neuroleptic drugs of butyrophenone series and phenothiazine series. In addition, it may be noted that the neuroleptic activity of conventional spiroimide compounds is remarkably alleviated when administered orally, while that of the imide derivatives I according to this invention is kept significant even when administered orally. The above facts are well evidenced by the pharmacological test data as set forth below. This activity was examined through the anti climbing behavior test, i.e. the test for suppressing the climbing behavior induced by apomorphine in mice. A designed amount of the test compound was orally administered to several groups of dd strain male mice bodyweight, 22 to 25 g one group, 5 mice , and each of the animals was charged in an individual column cage of 12 cm in diameter and 14 cm in height having metal poles each pole, 2 mm in diameter vertically installed and arranged along the periphery with intervals of 1 cm. After 50 minutes, apomorphine 1.0 mg kg was subcutaneously injected, and 10 minutes after the injection, the behavior was observed during 10 minutes. Evaluation was made on the basis of the following criteria P. Protais et al. Psychopharmacology, Clibming behavior control percentage per each dose was calculated by the following equation, and ED₅₀ 50 effective dose was determined thereon The results are shown in Table 1. This activity was examined through the catalepsy inducing activity test as described in M. Fujiwara et al. Folia Formacol., Japon The results are shown in Table 2. From the above test results, it is understood that haloperidol used for comparison exhibits a significant neuroleptic activity i.e. anti climbing activity but simultaneously exerts a considerably high level of extrapyramidal activity i.e. catalepsy inducing activity . The imide derivatives I of the invention and tiaspirone show a nearly same significant level in neuroleptic activity when administered subcutaneously, but the activity of the former is much higher than that of the latter when administered orally. Further, the extrapyramidal side effect of the imide derivatives I is much lesser than that of haloperidol. From these facts, it may be concluded that the imide derivatives I are neuroleptic drugs having a high selectivity and a high safety. Thus, the imide derivatives I are usable not only to ordinary patients in mental disorders but also to patients of old ages who are apt to be affected by various side effects. Further, it may be noted that some of the imide derivatives I show not only neuroleptic activity but also other useful pharmacological activities such as analgesic activity, anti allergic activity and circulatory activity. For therapeutic administration, the imide derivatives I or their salts may be used in the form of conventional pharmaceutical preparations such as tablets, capsules, syrups, suspensions, solutions, emulsions and suppositories. Depending upon their administration route such as oral administration, parenteral administration or rectal administration, an appropriate preparation form may be used. In order to make those preparations, the imide derivatives I may be combined, if necessary, with suitable additives such as carriers, diluents, fillers, binders and stabilizers. In case of an injection, pharmaceutically acceptable buffers, solubilizers, isotonizers, etc. may be incorporated therein. While the dosage of the imide derivatives I will vary with the symptom, the age and weight of the patient, the dosage form, the administration mode and the like, the imide derivatives I may be, in general, administered to adults in an amount of about 0.5 to 1000 mg, preferably of about 3 to 500 mg per day in a single dose or divided doses. Practical and presently preferred embodiments for production of the compound I as well as the intermediary compounds II , IV , VIII , X , III , V , IX , XI , XIV , XVII and XIX are illustratively shown in the following Examples and Reference Examples. A mixture of 2,3 dimethyl 1,3 butadiene 10 g 0.122 mol , maleic anhydride 11.9 g 0.122 mol and benzene 30 ml was stirred at room temperature for 10 hours, followed by removal of insoluble materials by filtration. The filtrate was concentrated under reduced pressure to give the objective compound 18.66 g . Yield, 86.6 . M.P., 73 74 C. A mixture of 4,5 dimethyl 4 cyclohexene 1,2 dicarboxylic anhydride 10g 0.0555 mol , platinum dioxide 150 mg and tetrahydrofuran 100 ml was hydrogenated at room temperature for 8 hours, followed by removal of insoluble materials by filtration. The filtrate was concentrated under reduced pressure to give the objective compound quantitatively. 1860, 1760. In the same manner as in Reference Example 1 or 2, the compounds as shown in Table 3 were obtained. A solution of bicyclo 2.2.2 octane 2,3dicarboxylic anhydride 3 g 16.6 mmol in tetrahydrofurn 9 ml was dropwise added to a mixture of 29 aqueous ammonia 6 g 83 mmol in water 18 ml while ice cooling, and the resultant mixture was heated. The solvent was removed under atmospheric pressure, and acetic anhydride 10 ml was added thereto, followed by refluxing for 30 minutes. The solvent was removed under reduced pressure, and the residue was combined with toluene 24 ml and heated to dissolve. After cooling, the precipitated crystals were collected by filtration to give the objective compound. M.P., 199 200 C. A mixture of cyclohexane 1,2 dicarboxylic anhydride 3 g 19.5 mmol and 29 aqueous ammonia 3.4 g was heated and kept at an inner temperature of 180 to 190 C for 2 hours to give the objective compound quantitatively. M.P., 132 136 C. In the same manner as in Reference Example 3 or 4, the compounds as shown in Table 4 were obtained. A mixture of bicyclo 2.2.1 heptane 2,3 di exo carboximide 50 g , 1,4 dibromobutane 327 g , anhydrous potassium carbonate 50 g and acetone 500 ml was heated under reflux for 5 hours while stirring, followed by cooling. The inorganic substance was removed by filtration and the filtrate was distilled under reduced pressure to give the objective compound as an oily substance 71.4 g . Yield, 78.6 . b.p., 173 180 C 0.04 mmHg. 1765, 1700, 1430, 1395. A mixture of phthalimide potassium salt 2 g 10.8 mmol , 1,4 dibromobutane 10.8 g 50 mmol and dry dimethylformamide 10 ml was stirred at a bath temperature of 90 to 100 C for 10 hours. The precipitated crystals were removed by filtration, and the filtrate was concentrated under reduced pressure. Excess of 1,4 dibromobutane was removed by distillation and the residue was purified by silica gel column chromatography to give the objective compound. M.P., 81 82 C. A 60 sodium hydride in mineral oil 1.1 g was added to dry dimethylformamide 50 ml at room temperarture while stirring. Saccharin 5 g was gradually added to the suspension at room temperature, followed by stirring for 30 minutes. To the resultant mixture, 1,4 dibromobutane 29.5 g was dropwise added, and the mixture was kept at an inner temperature of 90 to 100 C for 5 hours. After completion of the reaction, insoluble materials were removed by filtration, and the filtrate was concentrated under reduced pressure. The residue was purified by silica gel column chromatography using chloroform as an eluent to give the objective compound 7.98 g . 1730, 1595, 1460, 1440, 1330. In the same manner as in Reference Example 5, 6 or 7, the compounds as shown in Table 5 were obtained. A mixture of N 3 butenyl cyclohexane 1,2 dicarboximide 1 g 4.8 mmol , N bromosuccinimide 0.86 g 4.8 mmol and water 2 ml was stirred at room temperature for 24 hours. After completion of the reaction, water was added to the reaction mixture to dissolve insoluble materials, followed by extraction with benzene. The benzene layer was washed with a saturated aqueous sodium chloride solution and dried over magnesium sulfate. The solvent was removed under reduced pressure to give the objective compound 1.4 g . Yield, 95.8 . 1760, 1700, 1440, 1400, 1360. A mixture of N 4 bromobutyl bicyclo 2.2.1 heptane 2,3 di exo carboximide 30 g 0.1 mol , piperazine 86 g 1 mol and toluene 250 ml was refluxed for 2 hours, followed by cooling with ice water. The precipitated crystals were removed by filtration, and the filtrate was concentrated under reduced pressure. The residue was purified by silica gel column chromatography to give the objective compound. 3100 3600 broad , 1760, 1690. A mixture of saccharin 10 g 0.055 mol and phosphorus pentachloride 12.6 g 0.061 mol was kept at a bath temperature of 180 C for 1.5 hours, followed by cooling. To the reaction mixture was added ether 50 ml , followed by vigorous stirring. stirring. Crystals were collected by filtration to give the objective compound 3.68 g . Yield, 33 . M.P., 144.5 145.5 C. A mixture of 3 1 piperazinyl 1,2 benzisothiazole 1 g 4.56 mmol , 1,4 dichloro 2 butene 2.9 g 22.8 mmol , anhydrous potassium carbonate 0.79 g 5.7 mmol and dry dimethylformamide 10 ml was stirred at a bath temperature of 90 to 100 C for 2 hours. After completion of the reaction, toluene 100 ml was added to the mixture, which was washed three times with water 50 ml . The toluene layer was washed with a saturated sodium chloride solution and dried over magnesium sulfate. The crude oil thus obtained was purified by silica gel chromatography to give the objective compound. 1590, 1560, 1490, 1450, 1420. To a solution of propargylamine 1.12 g in dry tetrahydrofuran 10 ml , a solution of bicyclo 2.2.1 heptane 2,3 di exo carboxylic anhydride 1.64 g in tetrahydrofuran 10 ml was dropwise added at room temperature under stirring, and the resultant mixture was gradually heated to distill off the solvent and kept at an oily bath temperature of 150 C for 30 minutes. The residue was purified by chromatography to give the objective compound. Yield, 81 . M.p., 94 94.5 C. A solution of bicyclo 2.2.1 heptane 2,3 di exo carboximide 3.30 g , propargyl bromide 2.62 g and anhydrous potassium carbonate 3.32 g in dry acetone 30 ml was stirred under reflux for 1 hour in nitrogen atmosphere. After cooling, the inorganic materials were removed by filtration, and the filtrate was concentrated under reduced pressure. The residue was combined with chloroform 20 ml and n hexane 20 ml so as to dissolve the crystals. Insoluble materials were removed by filtration with celite, and the filtrate was evaporated. The residue was recrystallized with n hexane to give the objective compound. Yield, 91 . M.P., 94 94.5 C In the same manner as in Reference Example 14 or 15, the compounds as shown in Table 6 was obtained. A mixture of bicyclo 2.2.1 heptane 2,3 di exo carboximide 2.3 g 14.2 mmol , 4 bromo 1,2 epoxybutane 2 g 14.2 mmol , potassium carbonate 2.9 g 21.3 mmol and acetone 35 ml was stirred for 8.5 hours under reflux. After completion of the reaction, the reaction mixture was cooled, and insoluble materials were removed by filtration. The filtrate was concentrated under reduced pressure, the residue was combined with toluene 100 ml , and the resulting mixture was shaken with a saturated aqueous sodium chloride solution 50 ml . The aqueous layer was reextracted with toluene 100 ml , and the toluene layer was combined with the organic layer and dried over magnesium sulfate. The solvent was evaporated under reduced pressure, and the residue was purified by silica gel column chromatography to give the objective compound 2.6 g . Yield, 79.4 . 1765, 1700, 1480, 1440, 1400. In the same manner as in Reference Example 16 or 17, the compounds as shown in Table 7 were obtained. A mixture of 4 bromo 1,2 epoxybutane 1.06 g 7.02 mmol , 3 1 piperazinyl 1,2 benzisothiazole 1.65 g 7.52 mmol , potassium carbonate 1.6 g 11.3 mmol and acetone 20 ml was stirred under reflux for 19 hours. Confirming complete consumption of the starting materials, insoluble materials were removed by filtration, and the filtrate was concentrated under reduced pressure. The residue was purified by silica gel column chromatography to give the objective compound 1.5 g . Yield, 73.8 . 1590, 1560, 1490, 1460. A mixture of N 4 bromobutyl bicyclo 2.2.1 heptane 2,3 di exo carboximide 1.2 g , 3 1 piperazinyl 1,2 benzisothiazole 0.75 g , potassium carbonate 1.2 g , potasium iodide 0.14 g and acetonitrile 30 ml was stirred under reflux for 8 hours. After completion of the reaction, the reaction mixture was cooled, and insoluble materials were removed by filtration, followed by removal of the solvent by distillation under reduced pressure. The residue was purified by chromatography to give the objective compound. M.P., 217 218 C. A mixture of N 4 chloro 2 trans butenyl bicyclo 2.2.1 heptane 2,3 di exo carboximide 1.87 g , 3 1 piperazinyl 1,2 benzisothiazole 1.5 g , potassium carbonate 1.13 g , potasium iodide 0.11 g and dimethylformamide 15 ml was stirred at an inner temperature of 90 to 100 C for 3 hours. After completion of the reaction, the reaction mixture was cooled and insoluble materials were removed by filtration. The filtrate was evaporated under reduced pressure. The residue was purified by chromatography and treated with hydrogen chloride to give the objective compound. M.P., 214 215 C. A mixture of 4 methylcyclohexyl 1,2 dicarboxylic anhydride 347 mg 2.07 mmol , 1 4 aminobutyl 4 1,2 benzisothiazol 3 yl piperazine 500 mg 1.72 mmol and dry pyridine 5 ml was refluxed for 11.5 hours. The reaction mixture was distilled under reduced pressure. The residue was purified by silica gel column chromatography and treated with hydrogen chloride to give the objective compound hydrochloride . M.P., 180 181 C. A mixture of 1 4 chloro 2 butenyl 4 1,2 benzisothiazol 3 yl piperazine 100 mg 0.32 mmol , anhydrous potassium carbonate 53.9mg 0.39 mmol , potassium iodide 6 mg 0.039 mmol , bicyclo 2.2.1 heptane 2,3 di exo carboximide 64 mg 0.39 mmol and dry dimethylformamide 1 ml was stirred at an inner temperature of 90 to 100 C for 9.5 hours. After completion of the reaction, the reaction mixture was combined with toluene 50 ml and washed with water 50 ml three times. The toluene layer was washed with a saturated sodium chloride solution 50 ml and dried over magnesium sulfate. The solvent was removed under reduced pressure, and the residue was purified by silica gel column chromatography to give the objective compound 43 mg . Yield, 30.8 . 1760, 1660 1700, 1580, 1560. M.P., 214 215 C hydrochloride . A mixture of N 4 1 piperazinyl butyl bicyclo 2.2.1 heptane 2,3 di exo carboximide 496 mg , 3 chloro 1,2 benzisothiazole 1,1 dioxide 423 mg , potassium carbonate 335 mg and toluene 20 ml was stirred at a bath temperature of 110 C for 1.5 hours. After completion of the reaction, the reaction mixture was cooled, and insoluble materials were removed by filtration. The filtrate was concentrated under reduced pressure. The residue was purified by chromatography to give the objective compound. M.P., 183.5 185.5 C. In the same manner as in Examples 1 to 5, the following compounds were obtained N 4 4 1,2 Benzisothiazol 3 yl 1 piperazinyl 2 trans butenyl bicyclo 2.2.1 heptane 2,3 di exo carboximide 0.5 g was dissolved in tetrahydrofuran 20 ml containing 10 palladium carbon 0.5 g previously treated with hydrogen, and the resulting mixture was stirred at room temperature for 5 hours in hydrogen stream. After completion of the reaction, the catalyst was removed by filtration, and the filtrate was concentrated under reduced pressure. The residue was treated with hydrogen chloride to give the objective compound. M.P., 217 218 C hydrochloride . In the same manner as in Example 6, the following compounds were obtained To a solution of N propargylbicyclo 2.2.1 heptane 2,3 di exo carboximide 406 mg in dioxane 1 ml , a solution of 1 1,2 benzisothiazol 3 yl piperazine 437 mg in dioxane 1 ml , 35 formalin 0.33 ml and an aqueous solution of copper sulfate 18 mg in water 1 ml were dropwise added while stirring at room temperature, and stirring was continued at 70 to 80 C for 2 hours. After concentration, the residue was combined with toluene, and insoluble materials were removed by filtration. The filtrate was concentrated under reduced pressure. The residue was purified by chromatography to give the objective compound. M.P., 98 100 C decomp. . N 4 4 1,2 Benzisothiazol 3 yl 1 piperazinyl 2 butynyl bicyclo 2.2.1 heptane 2,3 di exo carboximide 0.5 g was dissolved in tetrahydrofuran 20 ml containing 5 palladium barium sulfate 0.5 g previously treated with hydrogen, and the resulting mixture was stirred at room temperature in hydrogen stream until the equimolar amount of hydrogen was absorbed. After completion of the reaction, the catalyst was removed by filtration. The filtrate was concentrated under reduced pressure. The residue was purified by chromatography to give the objective compound. M.P., 116 118 C. A mixture of N 3,4 epoxybutyl bicyclo 2.2.1 heptane 2,3 di exo carboximide 1.07 g , 3 1 piperazinyl 1,2 benzisothiazole 1.0 g and n butanol 20 ml was stirred under reflux for 12 hours. After completion of the reaction, the solvent was removed under reduced pressure. The precipitated crystals were collected and washed with isopropanol to give the objective compound. M.P., 169 170 C. In the same manner as in Example 9, the following compounds were obtained A mixture of 1 3,4 epoxybutyl 4 1,2 benzisothiazol 3 yl piperazine 0.5 g 1.73 mmol , bicyclo 2.2.1 heptane 2,3 di exo carboximide 0.57 g 3.46 mmol , potassium carbonate 0.72 g 5.19 mmol and n butanol 13 ml was stirred under reflux for 9 hours. After completion of the reaction, the reaction mixture was combined with ethyl acetate 100 ml , washed with water 50 ml two times and dried over magnesium sulfate, followed by removal of the solvent under reduced pressure. The residue was purified by silica gel column chromatography to give the objective compound 375 mg . Yield, 47.7 . M.P., 166 167 C. In the same manner as in Example 10, the following compounds were obtained A solution of N 4 4 1,2 benzisothiazol 3 yl 1 piperazinyl butyl bicyclo 2.2.1 heptane 2,3 di exo carboximide hydrochloride 0.5 g 1.05 mmol in methylene chloride 40 ml was dropwise added to m chloroperbenzoic acid 145 mg 0.84 mmol at an inner temperature of 10 C, and the resultant mixture was stirred at the same temperature for 3 hours and further at room temperature for 10 hours. The reaction mixture was combined with a saturated sodium bicarbonate solution 50 ml and extracted with methylene chloride 100 ml . The organic layer was dried over magnesium sulfate, and the solvent was removed under reduced pressure. The residue was purified by silica gel column chromatography to give the objective compounds. M.P.,150 155 C crude Compound No. 4 188 191 C crude Compound No. 42 . To a solution of N 4 4 1,2 benzisothiazol 3 yl 1 piperazinyl butyl bicyclo 2.2.1 heptane 2,3 di exo carboximide hydrochloride 0.5 g 1.05 mmol in dioxane 5 ml , a solution of sodium bromite 0.3 g in water 2 ml was dropwise added, and stirring was continued for 15 minutes. After completion of the reaction, the reaction mixture was extracted with a 2 sodium carbonate solution 50 ml and ethyl acetate 150 ml in this order, and the organic layer was washed with a saturated aqueous solution of sodium chloride 50 ml and dried over magnesium sulfate, followed by removal of the solvent under reduced pressure. The residue was purified by silica gel column chromatography to give the objective compound 1200 mg . Yield, 41.8 . M.P., 199 200 C. The imide derivatives I can be prepared by various procedures as exemplified above. For the sake of reference, Table 8 shows some examples of the imide derivatives I and their preparation procedures. In this Table, the numeral under the column Process indicates the number of the working example Example by which the imide derivative I under the column Compound No. was produced not parenthesized or is produced parenthesized .