# Fluorobenzyl esters.

## Abstract
This invention relates to novel insecticidally active esters of formula

## Claims
1. An ester of formulaEMI26.1 where R is selected from halogen, alkyl of up to 4 carbon atoms and trialkylsilyl where each alkyl group contains up to 4 carbon atoms, and X represents the residue of any carboxylic acid of formula X COOH which forms an insecticidally active ester with 3 phenoxybenzyl alcohol. 2. An ester according to claim I wherein X represerits a a group of formulaEMI26.2 wherein i R1 and R2 are each selected from hydrogen, halo and alkyl of up to four carbon atoms or ii R1 is hydrogen and R2 represents either a group of formulaEMI26.3 or a group of formulaEMI27.1 where R3 and R4 are each selected from methyl, halo or haloalkyl of up one or two carbon atoms containing at least two fluorine atoms, and Y is chlorine or bromo or b X represents a group of formula Ar CHR5 where R5 represents an alkyl group of up to four carbon atoms and Ar represent a phenyl group optionally substituted with one or two halogen atoms. 3. An ester according to claim 1 of formulaEMI27.2 where R is hydrogen or alkyl of up to four carbon atoms, and R1 and R2 are each selected from halogen or alkyl of up to four carbon atoms, or R1 is hydrogen and R2 is a group of formula EMI28.1 wherein R3 and R4 are each selected from methyl, fluoro, chloro, bromo and trifluoromethyl. 4. The ester according to claim 3 wherein R is hydrogen, R1 is hydrogen and R2 is dichlorovinyl or 2 chloro 3,3, 3 trifluoroprop l en l yI. 5. An insecticidal composition comprising an insecticidally effective amount of the ester of claim 1 in association with an insecticidally inert diluent or carrier material. 6. A method of combating insect pests at a locus which comprises treating the locus with an insecticidally effective amount of the composition of claim 5. 7. The method of claim 6 wherein the insect pests are flying insect pests and the composition comprises an amount of the compound of claim 1 sufficient to cause rapid knock down of the pests. 8. A process for preparing the ester of claim 1 which comprises reacting an acid of formula X COOH, or an esterifyable derivative thereof, with an alcohol of formula EMI28.2 wherein X and R are as defined in claim 1. 9. An alcohol of formulaEMI29.1 wherein R is hydrogen or alkyl of up to four carbon atoms.

## Description
FLUOROBENZYL ESTERS This invention relates to novel fluorobenzyl esters useful as insecticides and characterised by a combination of excellent knock down properties and lethal action to insanitary insect pests such as houseflies, cockroaches and mosquitos. The novel fluorobenzyl esters of this invention have the general formulaEMI1.1 where R is selected from hydrogen, alkyl of up to four carbon atoms and the trialkyisilyl group where each alkyl contains up to four carbon atoms, and X represents the residue of any carboxylic acid of formula X COOH which forms an insecticidally active ester with a 3 phenoxybenzyl alcohol.More particularly X represents a a group of formulaEMI1.2 wherein i R1 and R2 are each selected from hydrogen halo and alkyl of up to four carbon atoms or ii R1 is hydrogen and R2 represents either a group of formula EMI2.1 or a group of formulaEMI2.2 where R3 and R4 are each selected from methyl, halo, or haloalkyl of one or two carbon atoms containing at least two fluorine atoms, and Y is chloro or bromo or b X represents a group of formula Ar CHR5 where R5 represents an alkyl group of up to four carbon atoms andAAr represents a phenyl group optionally substituted with one or two halogen atoms. Preferred compounds according to the invention are those of formula EMI2.3 wherein R is hydrogen or alkyl of up to four carbon atoms, Rl and R2 are each selected from halogen or alkyl of up to four carbon atoms preferably methyl , or R1 is hydrogen and R2 is a group of formulaEMI3.1 wherein R3 and R4 are each selected from methyl, fluoro, chloro, bromo and trifluoromethyl. Particularly preferred compounds according to formulaI are those set out in Table I below wherein the meaning ofR1 and R2 are set out for each compound. TABLE IEMI3.2 tb Compound SEP R SEP RÚ SEP Rê tb SEP 1 SEP H SEP CH3 SEP CH3 tb SEP 2 SEP H SEP H SEP CH C CH3 2 tb SEP 3 SEP H SEP H SEP CH CC12 SEP tb SEP 4 SEP H SEP H SEP CH CBr2 tb SEP 5 SEP H SEP H SEP CH CF2 SEP tb SEP 6 SEP H SEP H SEP CH C F CF3 tb SEP 7 SEP H SEP H SEP CH C C1 CF3 SEP tb SEP 8 SEP H SEP H SEP CH C Br CF3 SEP tb SEP 9 SEP H SEP H SEP CH C CF3 2 tb SEP 10 SEP H SEP Cl SEP Cl SEP tb SEP 11 SEP CH3 SEP H SEP CH C CI CF3 tb It will be appreciated that certain of the compounds of the invention wherein R1 and R2 are not identical are capable of existing in more than one isomeric form, due to the possibility of cis and trans isomerism in the substitution pattern of the cyclopropane ring and thepresence of chiral centres at C1 and C3 ofthe cyclopropane ring Thus there may be t cis, cis, trans and trans isomers. there R3 and R4 are not identical there exists the further possibility of E and Z isomers of the group R2. The scope of the invention includes each of the said isomeric forms in isolation as well as mixtures thereof, including racemic mixtures. Especially preferred compounds according to formula I include the 4 prop 2 ynyl 2,3,5,6 tetrafluorobenzyl esters of the following cyclopropane acids. 2,2,3,3 tetramethylcyclopropane carboxylic acid, 2, 2 dichloro 3, 3 dimethylcyclopropane carboxylic acid, CiS 3 2,2 dichlorovinyl 2,2 dimethylcyclopropane carboxylic acid, trans 3 2 methylprop 1 en 1 yl 2,2 dimethylcyclo propane carboxylic acid, CiS 3 2,2 difluorovinyl 2,2 dimethylcyclopropane carboxylic acid, Ci s 3 2,2 dibromovinyl 2,2 dimethylcyclopropane carboxylic acid, cis 3 2,2 dibromovinyl 2,2 dimethylcyclopropane carboxylic acid, cis 3 Z 2 chloro 3,3,3 trifluoroprop 1 en 1 yl 2ss2 dimethylcyclopropane carboxylic acid, cis 3 Z 2 chloro 3,3,3 trifluoroprop 1 en 1 yl 2,2dimethylcyclopropane carboxylic acid, RTI ID 5.1 cis 3 Z 2,3,3,3 tetrafluoroprop 1 en 1 yl 2,2 dimethylcyclopropane carboxylic acid, trans 3 Z 2,3,3,3 tetrafluoroprop 1 en 1 yl 2,2 dimethylcyclopropane carboxylic acid, and cls 3 2 trifluoromethyl 3,3,3 trifluoroprop l en l yl 2,2 dimethylcyclopropane carboxylic acid.Other compounds of the invention include 4 but 2 ynyl 2,3,5,6 tetrafluorobenzyl cis 3 Z 2 chloro 3,3,3 trifluoroprop l en 1 yl 2,2 dimethylcyclo propane carboxylate, ,and the 4 prop 2 ynyl 2,3,5,6 tetrafluorobenzyl esters of cis 3 l,2 dibromo 2,2 dichlorovinyl 2,2 dimethylcyclopropane carboxylic acid, and 2 4 chloro phenyl 3 methylbutyric acid. The compounds of the invention are esters and may be prepared by conventional esterification processes, of which the following are examples. a An acid of formula X COOH 11 where X has any of the meanings given hereinabove, may be reacted directly with a 4 alkynyl 2,3,5,6 tetrafluoro benzyl alcohol of formula EMI6.1 the reaction preferably taking place in the presence of an acid catalyst, for example, dry hydrogen chloride, or a dehydrating agent, for example, a carbodiimide such as dicyclohexyl carbodi imide. b An acid halide of formula X COHal where Hal represents a halogen atom, preferably a chlorine atom, and X has any of the meanings given hereinabove, may be reacted with the alcohol of formula III, the reaction preferably taking place in the presence or a base, for example, pyridine, trialkylamine alkali metal hydroxide or carbonate, or alkali metal alkoxide. c An acid of formula II where X has any of the meanings given hereinabove, or preferably, an alkali metal salt thereof, may be reacted with halide of formulaEMI6.2 where Hal represents a halogen atom, preferably the bromine or chlorine atom, or with the quaternary ammonium salts derived from such halides with tertiary amines, for example pyridine, or trialkylamines such as triethylamine. d A lower alkyl ester of formula X COOQ where represents a lower alkyl group containing up to six carbon atoms, preferably the methyl or ethyl group, and X has any of the meanings given hereinabove, is heated with the alcohol of formula III to effect a transesterification reaction. Preferably the process is performed in the presence of a suitable catalyst, for example, an alkali metal alkoxide, such as sodium methoxide, or an alkylated titanium derivative, such as tetramethyl titanate. All of these conventional processes for the preparation of esters may be carried out using solvents and diluents for the various reactants where appropriate, and may be accelerated or lead to higher yields of product when performed at elevated temperatures or in the presence of appropriate catalysts, for example phase transfer catalysts. The preparation of individual isomers may be carried out in the same manner but commencing from the cores ponding individual isomers of compounds of formula II.These may be obtained by conventional isomer separation techniques from mixtures of isomers. Thus cis and trans isomers may be separated by fractional crystallisation of the carboxylic acids or salts thereof, whilst the various optically active species may be obtained by fractional crystallisat ion of salts of the acids with optically active amines, followed by regeneration of the optically pure acid. The optically pure isomeric form of the acid or its equivalent acid chloride or ester may then be reacted with the alcohol of formula III to produce a compound of formulaI in the form of an individually pure isomer thereof. 4 Alkynyl 2,3,5,6 tetrafluorobenzyl alcohols III have not been described previously. In a further aspect therefore the invention provides 4 alkynyl 2,3,5,6tetrafluorobenzyl alcohols as novel intermediates useful in the preparation of the insecticidal esters of the invention. These compounds may be prepared from pentafluorobenzaldehyde by the following scheme. EMI8.1 tb SEP F SEP F SEP F SEP F tb SEP SEP LiBr SEP t tb F SEP e SEP F SEP N methyl SEP SEP Br SEP 4 SEP CHO tb SEP F SEP p SEP N methy tb SEP pyrrolidone SEP F SEP F tb SEP NaBH4 CH3OH tb SEP F SEP F tb SEP Br SEP 4 SEP CH20H tb SEP DHP H SEP Br SEP SEP CHZOH tb SEP F SEP F tb SEP F tb SEP Br SEP CHZO SEP tb i SEP BuLi SEP SEP 0 tb Cii SEP CuBr SEP DMS SEP F SEP F tb SEP iii SEP RC C SEP C CH2 Hal tb SEP P SEP F tb RC SEP C CH2 SEP yF SEP CH2M tb SEP F SEP F tb SEP CH3oH H tb SEP F SEP F tb SEP RCCCH24 SEP CH2OH tb SEP F SEP F tb Key DHP dihydropyran BuLi n butyllithium CuBr DMS copper I bromide, complex with dimethylsulphide Further details concerning the preparation and characterisation of 4 prop 2 ynyl 2, 3,5, 6 tetrafluoro benzyl alcohol and 4 but 2 ynyl 2,3,5,6 tetrafluorobenzyl alcohols are given hereinafter inthe Examples. The compounds of formula I may be used to combat and control infestations of insect pests and also other invertebrate pests, in particular, acarine pests. The which and acarine pests which may be combatted and controlled by the use of the invention compounds include those pests associated with agriculture which term includes the growing of crops for food and fibre products, horticulture and animal husbandry , forestry, the storage of products of vegetable origin, such as fruit, grain and timber, and aLso those pests associated with the transmission of diseases of man and animals. In Order to apply the compounds to the locus of the pests they are usually formulated into compositions which include in additionto the insecticidally active ingredient or ingredients of formula suitable inert diluent or carrier materials, and or surface active agents. The compositions may also comprise another pesticidal material, for example another insecticide or acaricide, or a fungicide, or may also comprise a insecticide synergist, such as for example dodecyl imidazole, safroxan, or piperonyl butoxide. The compositions may be in the form of dusting powders wherein the active ingredient is mixed with a solid diluent or carrier, for example kaolin, bentonite, kieselguhr, or talc, or they may b in the form of granules, wherein the active ingredient is absorbed in a porous granular material for example pumice. Alternatively the compositions may be in the form of liquid preparations to be used as dips or sprays, which are generally aqueous dispersions or emulsions of the active ingredient in the presence of one or more known wetting agents, dispersing agents or emulsifying agents surface active agents . Wetting agents, dispersing agents and emulsifying agents may be of the cationic, anionic or non ionic type.Suitable agents of the cationic type include, for example, quaternary ammonium compounds, for example cetyltrimethyl ammonium bromide. Suitable agents of the anionic type include, for example, soaps, salts of aliphatic monoesters of sulphuric acid, for example sodium lauryl sulphate, salts of sulphonated aromatic compounds, for example sodium dodecylbenzenesulphonate, sodium, calcium or ammonium lignosulphonate, or butylnaphthalene sulphonate, and a mixture of the sodium salts of diisopropyl and triisopropylnaphthalene sulphonates. Suitable agents of the nonionic type include, for example, the condensation products of ethylene oxide with fatty alcohols such as oleyl alcohol or cetyl alcohol, or with alkyl phenols such as octal phenol, nonyl phenol and octyl cresol.Other non ionic agents are the partial esters derived from long chain fatty acids and hexitol anhydrides, the condensation products of the said partial esters with ethylene oxide, and the lecithins. The compositions may be prepared by dissolving the active ingredient in a suitable solvent, for example, a ketonic solvent such as diacetone alcohol, or an aromatic solvent such as trimethylbenzene and adding the mixture so obtained to water which may contain one or more known wetting, dispersing or emulsifying agents. Other suitable organic solvents are dimethyl formamide, ethylene dichloride, isopropyl alcohol, propylene glycol and other glycols, diacetone alcohol, toluene, kerosene, white oil, methylnaphthalene, xylenes and trichloroethylene, N methyl2 pyrrolidone and tetrahydro furfuryl alcohol THFA . The compositions to be used as sprays may also be in the form of aerosols wherein the formulation is held in a container under pressure in the presence of a propellant such as fluorotrichloromethane or dichlorodifluoromethane. The compositions which are to be used in the form of aqueous dispersions or emulsions are generally supplied in the form of a concentrate containing.a high proportion of the active ingredient or ingredients, the said concentrate to be diluted with water before use. These concentrates are often required to withstand storage for prolonged periods and after such storage, to be capable of dilution with water to form aqueous preparations which remain homogenous for a sufficient time to enable them to be applied by conventional spray equipment. The concentrates may contain 10 85 by weight of the active ingredient or ingredients. When diluted to form aqueous preparations such preparations may contain varying amounts of the active ingredient depending upon the purpose for which they are to be used. For agricultural or horticultural purposes, an aqueous preparation containing between 0.0001 and 0.1 by weight of the active ingredient is particularly useful. In use the compositions are applied to the pests, to the locus of the pests, to the habitat of the pests, or to growing plants liable to infestation by the pests, by any of the known means of applying pesticidal compositions, for example, by dusting or spraying. The compositions of the invention are very toxic to wide varieties of insect and other invertebrate pests, including, for example, the following Aphis fabae aphids Megoura viceae aphids Musca domestica houseflies Blattella germanica cockroaches Aedes aegypti mosquitos Plutella xylostella diamond back month, larvae Tetranychus cinnabarinus carmine spider mite Tetranychus urticae red spider mites Panonychus ulmi citrus rust mite Diabrotica spp. rootworms Heliothis virescens tobacco budworms Chilo partellus stem borers The compounds of formula I and compositions comprising them have shown themselves to be particularly useful in controlling foliar feeding pests of plants, and public health pests such as flies and mosquitos.The compounds may also be used to combat pests which inhabit the soil, for example Diabrotica spp. They may also be useful in combating insect and acarine pests which infest domestic animals, such as Lucilia sericata, and ixodid ticks such asBoophilus spp., Ixodes spp., Amblyomma spp., Rhipicephalus spp., and Dermaceutor spp. They are expected to be effective in combating both susceptible and resistant strains of these pests in their adult, larval and intermediate stages of growth, and may be applied to the infested host animal by topical, oral or parenteral administration. In particularr the invention compounds have useful knock down properties which make them of value as ingredient in aerosol and like sprays designed for use against flying insect pests such as houseflies, mosquitos and the like In such sprays they may be used on their own or in conjunction with other insecticidal components.However, unlike other knock down agents such as tetramethrin and allethrin many of the invention compounds combine good knock down properties with a lethal effect at the same concentration. In the following examples, which further illustrate the invention, the novel compounds produced were examined by infra red and nuclear magnetic spectroscopy, and gave spectra consistent with the indicated structures of the compounds. EXAMPLE 1 This Example illustrates the preparation of 4 bromo 2,3,5,6 tetrafluorobenzaldehyde. A A stirred mixture of pentafluorobenzaldehyde 17.7g , anhydrous lithium bromide 8.9g and N methylpyrrolidone 50 cm3 was heated at 1600C under a nitrogen atmosphere for 2 hours, after which it was cooled and poured into water. The solid precipitate was collected by filtration, washed on the filter with water and dried in a dessicator over phosphorus pentoxide. After trituration with diethyl ether the residual solid was collected to yield 4 bromopentafluorobenzaldehyde 8.4g , mp. 105 1080C.Infra red paraffin mull 1700 cm 1 EXAMPLE 2 This Example illustrates the preparation of 4 bromo 2,.3,5, 6 tetrafluorobenzyl alcohol. Sodium borohydride 1.0g was added portionwise over a period of 30 minutes to a stirred solution of 4 bromo 2,3,5,6 tetrafluorobenzaldehyde 8.2g in methanol 80 cm3 whilst the temperature was maintained within the range from 5 C to 50C, after which the mixture. was stirred for 2 hours at the ambient temperature. ca 18 C .The mixture was poured into water and the precipitated white solid collected by fitration, washed, with water and air dried to yield 4 bromo 2,3,5,6. tetrafluorobenzyl alchol 7.5g , mp.. 60 62 C. Infra red paraffin mull 3400 b ,, 1500 b cm 1 EXAMPLE 3 This Example illustrates the preparation of 2 4 bromo 2,3,5,6 tetrafluorobenzyloxy tetrahydrofuran. Dihydropyran 3.0g and concentrated hydrochloric acid 0.3 cm3 were added successively to a stirred solution of 4 bromo 2, 3, 5, 6 tetrahydrobenzyl alcohol 8.4g in dry diethyl ether 50 cm3 and the mixture stirred for a further 15 hours after which the more volatile components were removed by evaporation under reduced pressure. The residual oil was confirmed by spectroscopic analysis as being 2 t4 bromo 2,3,5,6 tetrafluorobenzyloxy tetra hydropyran 9.5g of ca 95t purity. NMR CDC13 6 4.6 m,3H , 3.9 m,2H 1.6 m,6H EXAMPLE 4 This Example illustrates the preparation of 2 4 prop 2 ynyl 2,3,5,6 tetrafluorobenzyloxy tetrahydropyran. n Butyllithium 2.3 cm3 of a 2.5M solution in n hexane was added dropwise to a solution of 2 4 bromo 2,3,5,6 tetrafluorobenzyloxy tetrahydropyran 1.7g in dry tetrahydrofuran 50 cm3 maintained at a temperature of 70 C under a nitrogen atmosphere, and the resulting mixture stirred for a further 2 hours. Copper I bromidedimethylsulphide complex l.lg was added to the mixture and after stirring for a further 2 hours, propargyl chloride 0.4g was added dropwise to the clear brownishyellow solution. The mixture was maintained at 700C for I hour and then allowed to warm to the ambient temperature over a period of 4 hours. The mixture was partitioned between diethyl ether and aqueous saturated ammonium chloride solution, and the ethereal phase separated, washed with water and dried over anhydrous magnesium sulphate.Removal of the solvent by evaporation under reduced pressure yielded a residual oil 1.4g consisting of ca. 609 of the desired product together with cg 202 2 2,3,5,6tetrafluorobenzyloxy tetrahydrofuran, and ca. 20 other unidentified materials. Purification and separation was effected by means of hplc Gilson using a silica column eluted with a mixture of n hexane 9 parts by volume and diethyl ether 1 part by volume to yield pure 2 4prop 2 ynyl 2,3,5,6 tetrafluorobenzyloxy tetrahydropyran 0.8g . 1H NMR CDC13 8 4.6 m,3H 3.9 m,2H 3.6 d,2H , 2.0 t,lH , 1.6 m,6H Infra red liquid film 3300, 2700 cm 1 EXAMPLE 5 This Example illustrates the preparation of 4 prop 2 ynyl 2,3,5,6 tetrafluorobenzyl alcohol. A mixture of 2 4 prop 2 ynyl 2,3,5,6 tetrafluoro benzyloxy tetrahydropyran 0.sag , dilute hydrochloric acid 2N, 5 cm3 and methanol 30 cm3 was stirred together at the ambient temperature for 2 hours, after which the more volatile portion was removed by evaporation under reduced pressure. The residue was extracted with diethyl ether, the extracts combined, washed with water, and dried over anhydrous magnesium sulphate. Removal of the solvent by evaporation under reduced presure yielded an oil which crystallised on standing to give 4 prop 2 ynyl 2,3,5,6tetrafluorobenzyl alcohol 0.5g , mp. 51 52 C, after recrystallisation from petroleum ether boiling range 60 80 C . 1H NMR CDC13 3 4.8 s,2H 3.6 m,2H 2.3 broad s,1H 1.0 t,1H Infra red paraffin mull 3400 cm 1. EXAMPLE 6 This Example illustrates the preparation of 4 prop2 ynyl 2,3,5,6 tetrafluorobenzyl cis 3 Z 2 chloro3,3,3 trifluoroprop 1 en 1 yl 2,2 dimethylcyclopropane carboxylate Product I . A mixture of cis 3 Z 2 chloro 3, 3, 3 trifluoro prop l en l yl 2,2 dimethylcyclopropane carboxylic acid 0.12g , 4 prop 2 ynyl 2,3,5,6 tetrafluorobenzyl alcohol 0.12g , dicyclohexylcarbodiimide 0. l34g , dichloromethane 10 cm3 and a trace of N,N dimethyl aminopyridine was stirred at the ambient temperature for 1 hour. After removal of the solid component by filtration the filtrate was concentrated by evaporation of the solvent and the residual oil subjected to purification by flash chromatography using dichloromethane as eluant to yield pure 4 prop 2 ynyl 2,3,5,6 tetrafluorobenzyl cis 3 Z 2 chloro 3,3,3 trifluoroprop l en 1 yl 2,2 dimethyl cyclopropane carboxylate 150 mg .1H NMR CDCl3 6.9 d, 1H 5.2 s,2H 3.6 m,2H 2.0 m,3H 1.35 s,6H Infra red liquid film 3300, 1736, 1650 cm 1. EXAMPLE 7 By the use of a procedure similar to that illustrated in Example 6 the following compounds of formula I may also be prepared from the appropriate carboxylic acids. i 4 prop 2 ynyl 2,3,5,6 tetrafluorobenzyl cis trans 3 2 methylprop 1 en 1 yl 2,2 dimethylcyclo propane carboxylate cis trans ratio 3 7 Product II. 1H NMR CDC13 E5.3 d , 5.2 s , 4.2 d 3H 3.6 m,2H 2.0 t,lH 1.7 s,6H 1.2 dd,6H Infra red liquid film 3300, 1730 cm 1. ii 4 prop 2 ynyl 2,3,5,6 tetrafluorobenzyl cis 3 2,2 dichlorovinyl 2,2 dimethylcyclopropane carboxylate Product III. 1H NMR CDC13 6.2 d,2H 5.2 d,2H 3.6 m,2H 2.0 m,3H 1.2 s,6H Infra red liquid film 3300, 1730, 1650 cm 1. iii 4 prop 2 ynyl 2,3,5,6 tetrafluorobenzyl trans 3 Z 2 chloro 3,3,3 trifluoroprop 1 en 1 yl 2,2 dimethylcyclopropane carboxylate Product IV. 1H NMR CDC13 6 6.1 d,lH 5.25 s,2H 3.6 q,2H 2.4 m,lH 2.0 t,lH 1.7 d,lH 1.3 d,6H Infra red liquid film 3300, 1730, 1650 cm 1. iv 4 prop 2 yoyl 2,3,5,6 tetrafluorobenzyl 2,2,3,3 tetramethylcyclopropane carboxylate Product V. H NMR CDCl3 5.1 s,2H 3.6 m,2H 2.0 t,1H 1.2 d,13H . v 4 prop 2 ynyl 2,3,5,6 tetrafluorobenzyl cis 3 Z 2 chloro 3,3,3 trifluoroprop 1 en 1 yl 2,2 dimethylcyclopropane carboxylate Product VI. H NMR CDCl3 6.9 d, 1H 5.25 s,2H 3.2 m,2H 2.0 m,3H 1.3 s,6H . vi 4 prop 2 ynyl 2,3,5,6 tetrafluorobenzyl cis 3 2 bromo 3,3,3 triEluoroprop 1 en 1 yl 2,2 dimethyl cyclopropane carboxylate Product VII. NMR CDC13 6.9 d,1H 5.08 s,2H 3.5 m,2H 1.93 m,3H 1.16 s,6H . Infra red liquid film 3300, 1730 cm 1 vii 4 prop 2 ynyl 2,3,5,6 tetrafluorobenzyl 3 1,2 dibromo 2,2 dichloroethyl 2,2 dimethylcyclopropane carboxylate Product VIII. 1H NMR CDCl3 5.4 m,lH 5.2 s,2H 3.6 m,2H 2.0 m,3H 1.3 d,6H . viii 4 prop 2 ynyl 2,3,5,6 tetrafluorobenzyl 2 4 chlorophenyl 3 methylbutyrate Product IX. 1H NMR CDCl3 5.17 m,2H 3.6 m,2H 3.1 d,lH 2.3 m,lH 2.07 t,1H 1.04 d,3H 0.75 d,3H . Infra red liquid film 3300, 1730 cm l EXAMPLE 8 This Example illustrates the preparation of the 4 prop 2 ynyl 2,3,5,6 tetrafluorobenzyl esters of cis and trans 3 Z 2,3,3,3 tetrafluoroprop 1 en 1 yl 2,2 dimethylcyclopropane carboxylic acids. Dicyclohexylcarbodiimide 0.4g was added to a stirred mixture of 3 Z 2,3,3,3 tetrafluoroprop 1 en 1 yl 2,2 dimethylcyclopropane carboxylic acid 0.45g, 88 w w cis isomer, 12 w w trans isomer , 4 prop 2 ynyl 2,3,5, 6 tetrafluorobenzyl alcohol 0.42g , 4dimethylaminopyridine 0.01g and dichloromethane 10.0cm3 and the mixture stirred for 1 hour. After removal of the solid component by filtration the filtrate was concentrated by evaporation of the solvent.The residual oil was subjected to purification by h.p.l.c. Gilson , using. a silica gel column eluted with a 1 1 by volume mixture of petroleum ether boiling range 40 60 C and dichloromethane to yield 4 prop 2 ynyl 2,3,5,6 tetrafluorobenzyl cis Z 2,3,3,3 tetrafluoroprop 1 en 1 yl 2,2 dimethylcyclopropane carboxylate A, Product X, 400 mg and 4 prop 2ynyl 2,3,5,6 tetrafluorobenzyl trans 3 Z 2,3,3,3 tetrafluoroprop 1 en 1 yl 2,2 dimethylcyclopropane carboxylate B, Product XI, 91 mg . 1H NMR CDCl3 A 6.2 d, 05H 5.9 d,0.5H 5.2 s,2H , 3.63 m,2H 2.07 m,3H 1.27 s,6H . B 5.7 d,0.5H , 5.1 d,0.5H 5.3 s,2H , 3.6 m,2H 2.4 m,lH , 2.05 t,lH 1.6 d,lH , 1.25 d,6H . EXAMPLE 9 By the use of procedures similar to those described inExamples 4 and 5 above 2 4 but 2 ynyl 2,3,5,6 tetrafluorobenzyloxy tetrahydropyran C was obtained f rom 2 4 bromo 2, 3,5, 6 tetrafluorobenzyloxy tetrahydropyran and but2 ynyl bromide and converted to 4 but 2 ynyl 2,3,5,6 tetrafluorobenzyl alcohol D .1H NMR CDC13 6 D 4.8 d,2H 3.6 s,2H 2. S bs,lH 1.8 t,3H . Infra red liquid film 3400 cm 1 EXAMPLE 10 By the use of a procedure similar to that illustrated in Example 6 the alcohol D was converted to 4 but 2 ynyl2,3,5,6 tetrafluorobenzyl cis 3 Z 2 chloro 3,3,3tetrafluoroprop l en l yl 2,2 dimethylcyclopropane carboxylate Product XII .1H NMR CDCl3 6.9 d,1H 5.25 s,2H 3.6 bs,2H 2.1 m,2H 1.8 t,3H .1.3 s76H . Infra red liquid film 1730, 1650 cm 1 EXAMPLE 11 This Example illustrates the preparation of 3 bromo 1 trimethylsilylpropyne. A solution of triphenylphosphine 2.7g in dry diethyl ether 30 cm was added dropwise to a stirred mixture of 1 trimethylsilylpropyn 3 ol 1.19g and 1,2 dibromotetra chloroethane 3.38g and sodium dried diethyl ether 30cm3 over a period of 8 minutes whilst the temperature was maintained at within the range 3 to 3 C. After stirring for a further 10 minutes the solid was removed by filtration and the filtrate concentrated by evaporation of the solvent under reduced pressure. The residual oil was purified by distillation to yield 3 bromo l trimethylsilylpropyne 0.9g as a colourless oil bp. 680C 20 mm Hg . 111 NMR CDC13 5 0.2 s,9H , 3.9 s,2H .Infra red liquid film 2200 cm 1 EXAMPLE 12 By the use of procedures similar to those described inExamples 4 and 5 above 2 4 trimethylsilylprop 2 ynyl. 2,3,5,6 tetrafluorobenzyloxy tetrahydropyran E was obtained from 3 bromo l trimethylsilylpropyne and 2 4bromo 2,3,5,6 tetrafluorobenzyloxy tetrahydropyran, and converted to 4 trimethylsilylprop 2 ynyl 2,3,5,6 tetrafluorobenzyl alcohol F . 111 NMR CDC13 8 F 4.8 d,2H 3.6 s,2H 0.1 s,9H .Infra red liquid film 3400, 2200 cm 1 EXAMPLE 13 By the use of a procedure similar to that illustrated in Example 6 the alcohol F was converted to 4 trimethylsilylprop 2 ynyl 2,3 r 5 6 tetrafluorobenzyl cis 3 2,2 dichlorovinyl 2,2 dimethylcyclopropane carboxylate Product XIII . 1H nmr CDCl3 6.3 d,1H 5.25 d, 2H 3.6 bs,2H 2.0 m,2H 1.3 s,6H 0.1 s,9H .Infra red liquid film 2200, 1730, 1650 cm 1 EXAMPLE 14 This Example illustrates the ins ecticida 1 properties of the Products of this invention. The activity of the Product was determined using a variety of insect pests. The Product was used in the form of liquid preparations containing 500, 100 or 10 parts per million ppm by weight of the Product. The preparations were made by dissolving the Product in a mixture of solvents consisting of 4 parts by volume of acetone and 1 part by volume of diacetone alcohol. The solutions were then diluted with water containing 0.01 by weight of a wetting agent sold under the trade name 1ISSAPOL NX until the liquid preparations contained the required concentration of the Product. Lissapol is a RegisteredTrade Mark . The test procedure adopted with regard to each pest was basically the same and comprised supporting a number of the pests on a medium which was usually a host plant or a foodstuff on which the pests feed, and treating either or both the pests and the medium with the preparations. The mortality of the pests was then assessed dt periods usually varying from one to three days after the treatment.Details are given in Table II. The results of the tests are given in Table III for each of the Products at the rate in parts per million given in the second column as a grading of mortality designated as A, B, C or N wherein A indicates 100 mortality of at an application rate of l0ppm, B indicates 100 mortality at 100 ppm, C indicates 100 mortality at 500,ppm and N represents less then 100 mortality at 500 ppm. In Table III the pest organism used is designated by a letter code and the pest species, the support medium or food, and the type and duration of test is given in TableII. TABLE II EMI24.1 CODE SEP LETTERS SEP TEST SEP SPECIES SEP SUPPORT SEP TYPE SEP OF SEP DURATION tb Table SEP III SEP MEDIUM FOOD SEP TEST SEP days tb TU SEP Tetranycus SEP urticae SEP French SEP bean SEP Contact SEP 3 tb red SEP spider SEP mites SEP SEP adult SEP leaf tb MP SEP Myzus SEP persicae SEP leaf SEP Contact SEP 2 tb aphids tb NL SEP Nilaparvata SEP lugens SEP Cabbage SEP leaf SEP Contact SEP 6 tb Green SEP leaf SEP hopper tb CP SEP Chilo SEP partellus SEP Oil SEP seed SEP rape SEP Residual SEP 3 tb maize SEP stem SEP borer SEP leaf tb HV SEP Heliothis SEP viriscens SEP Cotton SEP leaf SEP Residual SEP 3 tb tobacco SEP budworm tb DB SEP Diabrotica SEP balteata SEP Filter SEP papaer SEP Residual SEP 3 tb rootworm SEP larvae SEP maize SEP seed tb SEP BG SEP Blattella SEP germanica SEP Palstic SEP pot SEP Residual SEP 3 tb cockroach SEP nymphs tb MD SEP Musca SEP domestica SEP Cotton SEP wool SEP Contact SEP 1 tb houseflies SEP SEP adults SEP sugar tb Contact test indicates that both pests and medium were treated and residual indicates that the medium was treated before infestation with the pests. TABLE IIIEMI25.1 tb PRODUCT SEP TU SEP MP SEP NL SEP MD SEP BG SEP HV SEP CP SEP DB tb SEP I SEP A SEP A SEP B SEP A SEP A SEP B SEP A SEP A tb SEP II SEP B SEP A SEP C SEP B SEP B SEP B SEP A SEP A tb SEP III SEP A SEP B SEP N SEP A SEP A SEP A SEP A SEP B tb SEP IV SEP A SEP A SEP N SEP A SEP A SEP A SEP A SEP A tb SEP V SEP C SEP A SEP B SEP B SEP B SEP B SEP A SEP A tb SEP X SEP SEP B SEP C SEP B SEP B SEP B SEP A SEP A tb SEP XI SEP B SEP B SEP C SEP A SEP B SEP B SEP A SEP A tb SEP XII SEP B SEP A SEP B SEP B SEP B SEP A SEP A SEP A tb SEP XIII SEP B SEP C SEP N SEP C SEP C SEP C SEP C SEP A tb In the test against Musca domestica the knock down effect was observed. Products I, III, IV and XI gave the most rapid knock down.