# Self extinguishing compositions of thermoplastic polymers.

## Abstract
Compositions of thermoplastic polymers comprising, in mixture, a thermoplastic polymer and a mixture of self extinguishability conferring additives, formed by ammonium phosphate or ammonium polyphosphate

## Claims
1. Self extinguishing compositions of thermoplastic polymers comprising, in mixture, a thermoplastic polymer and a mixture of additives conferring self extinguishing characteristics to the same polymer, formed by ammonium phosphate or ammonium polyphosphate wherein p varies within the range of from 1 to about 1000 and by phosphorus containing compound definable by means of the general formulae wherein R₁ is a group which can be represented by the following formula or a group which can be represented by the following formula wherein, in said c and d formulae n varies within the range of from 1 to 5 R₄, R₅, R₆ can be independently selected among hydrogen up to a maximum of two hydrogen atoms , and C₂ C₆ alkyl or C₂ C₆ hydroxyalkylene groups or R₅ and R₆, in c and d formulae, or R₄ and R₆, limitedly to c formula, when considered jontly, can form a CH₂ m alkylene bridge, wherein m has such a value as to give rise to the formation of five , or six membered ring structures or R₅ and R₆, when considered jointly, can form a CH₂ CH₂ O CH₂ CH₂ oxydiethylene bridge R₂ and R₃ can be equal to OR₁ or they can be selected among the following groups OH O NH₄ wherein in said e and f formulae R₇ is either hydrogen or a C₁ C₆ alkyl group R₈ and R₉ are groups independetly selected among amino, hydroxy, C₁ C₆ alkyl, C₁ C₆ oxyalkyl and mono and di amino C₁ C₆ alkyl group the additives I and IIa and or IIb can moreover be present in overall amounts of from 20 to 35 parts by weight per each 100 parts by weight of thermoplastic polymer, the weight ratio between additive I and additive II and or additive IIb can moreover vary within the range of from 0.45 1 to 3.5 1.

## Description
The present invention related to self extinguishing thermoplastic polymers comprising, in mixture, a thermoplastic polymer and a mixture of additives capable to confer self extinguishability characteristics to the same thermoplastic polymer. In the art the need is increasigly felt of having available polymeric compositions provided with high self extinguishing characteristics, and that for safety reasons. Thus, according to the known art, characteristics of self extinguishability can be conferred to the thermoplastic polymers by incorporating into the same polymers metal compounds, especially compounds of antimony, bismuth or arsenic, in combination with halogenated organic compounds, such as chlorinated paraffins. Polymeric compositions are thus obtained which, although are generally satisfactory as for their self extinguishing characteristics, are disadvantageous as for their corrosiveness during their processing and forming, and due to the emission of darkening smokes and toxic fumes in case of fire during their storage or use. Moreover, the amounts to be added of such additives, in order to obtain high self extinguishing values V 0 according to the UNDERWRITERS LABORATORIES, INC. Bulletin 94, Standard UL 94 are typically of the order of magnitude of about 40 by weight, so as to notably impair the physical mechanical and light stability characteristics of the polymers they are incorporated in. In the art, other self extinguishing, halogen free additives have been proposed, such as it is disclosed, e.g., in U.S. Patents Nos. 4,009.207 and 4,010,137, capa ble of conferring V 0 self extinguishability values, according to the said UL 94 Standard, at lower concentrations, typically of the order of 25 by weight, and hence impairing to a lesser extent the characteristics of the polymers they are incorporated in. Moreover, these additives, of the type known as char forming involve, in case of a fire, a considerable reduction of the darkening smokes and of the toxic and corrosive fumes, comparatively to the halogenated additives. These additives have shown however not to be completely satisfactory as for at least one of the following aspects thermal stability under the conditions of moulding of the polymers they are incorporated in, with consequent possibility of the appearance of undesired colourings and of evolvement of gases and fumes stability over time concentration required to obtain the desired self extinguishability effect and cost. It has been found now that the disadvantages of the known art can be overcome, or at leat greatly reduced, by means of a mixture of self extinguishing additives for the thermoplastic polymers. Accordingly, the present invention relates to self extinguishing compositions of thermoplastic polymers comprising, in mixture, a thermoplastic polymer and a mixture of additives conferring self extinguishing characteristics to the same polymer, formed by ammonium phosphate or ammonium polyphosphate The thermoplastic polymers to which the self extinguishability characteristics are conferred are generally those belonging to the following polymer classes olephinic polymers, acrylonitrile butadiene styrene polymers, polyesters such as polyethylene terephthalate and polybutylene terephthalate and polyurethane. Among these polymers, to the purposes of the present invention, polypropylene and low and high density polyethylene are preferred. The additive I of the present invention is preferably an ammonium polyphosphate, to be defined by the foregoing formula I , wherein the value of p varies within the range of from about 50 to about 1000. The products in question are commercially available, as, e.g., the commercial product EXOLIT The additives IIa and IIb of the present invention are phosphorus containing compounds to be defined by means of the previously reported IIa and IIb formulae. Preferred compounds are those definable by means of said formulae, wherein the substituent R₁ is selected from the following groups The stabilizer additives IIa and IIb of the present invention can give rise to condensation products, e.g., by heating at temperatures higher than room temperatures, with the formation of products with higher molecular weight. Said condensation reactions are also due to the presence in the additives IIa and IIb of reactive functional groups. The condensation products of such additives maintain unchanged the self extinguishability characteristics conferred to the thermoplastic polymers they are incorporated in, and exert on said polymers a plastifying or filling effect, and that as a function of the condensation degree conferred to the same additives. Hence, according to another aspect thereof, the present invention relates to polymeric compositions, containing, in mixture, a thermoplastic polymer and a mixture formed by the additive I and the products deriving from the condensation of IIa and or IIb additives, said condensation products being obtained outside the thermoplastic polymer or inside the same polymer, during the processing and forming steps carried out at temperatures higher than room temperatures. The compounds with formulae IIa and IIb can be prepared starting from compounds R₁OH wherein R₁ has the hereinabove indicated meaning , obtained in their turn by condensation between aminoalcohols and carbonyl compounds e.g., urea , by operating in mass at temperatures comprised within the range of from 150 to 200 C. For instance The compounds IIa and IIb can hence be prepare d by means of the reaction of the compound R₁OH with POCl₃ or PCl₃ respectively, and subsequent hydrolysis in aqueous medium the phosphoric or phosphorous ester deriving therefrom can be then treated with melamine to yield the corresponding salt. For instance For instance The self extinguishing composition of thermoplastic polymers of the present invention are prepared by any means known in the art, and suitable to homogenize the additives with the polymer. According to a usual practice, the additives are submitted to a milling up to reduce them to a powder with particle sizes comprised within the range of from 0,5 to 70 µ. The so obtained powder is blended with the thermoplastic polymer and the blend is extruded, a granulated self extinguishing composition of thermoplastic polymer being obtained. The mixture of the self extinguishing additives of the present invention is capable to confer to the thermoplastic polymer into which it is incorporated, high self extinguishability characteristics classifiable as V 0 according to the UL 94 Standard and high values of LOI Limiting Oxygen Index ASTM D 2863 77 Standard , when said additives are used in the overall amounts and in the relative proportions which have been previously indicated. It should be noted that under these conditions, the mixture of the additives does not cause noticeable changes in the typical properties of the thermoplastic polymer it is incorporated in. It should be finally observed that the self extinguishability characteristics conferred to the thermoplastic polymers by the mixture of additives are surprisingly good, in particular as compared to the effect exerted by the individual additives I and IIa and or IIb , as it shall clearly appear from the experimental Examples. In the following experimental Examples, reported to only exemplifying and not limitative purposes, the polypropylene available from the market under the trade name MOPLEN To this polypropylene, 0.7 by weight is added of a stabilizer system formed by 66 parts by weight of dilauryl thiopropanoate and 33 parts by weight of pentaerithritol tetra 3 3,5 di tert.butyl 4 hydroxyphenyl propanoate. The self extinguishing additives are homogenized by milling up to a powder with average particle size of about 50 µ , and the so obtained powder is blended and homogenized with polypropylene powder. The blend is then introduced into an extruder within the temperature range of from 200 to 240 C, and the extrudate is cooled and granulated. The so obtained granules are both compression moulded 190 250 C 40 kg cm² , and injection moulded 200 250 C , to respectively obtain two types of specimens A specimen dimensions 127 12.7 3.2 mm B specimen dimensions 127 6.5 3.2 mm. The A specimens are submitted to the test of fire performance according to UL 94 Standard. According to this Standard, the materials receive a V 0, V 1 and V 2 classification, on the basis of the results obtained on five specimens. The B specimens are submitted to the tests of fire performance according to the ASTM D 2863 77 Standard, correlating the flammability of a polymeric material to the concentration by volume of oxygen present in the atmosphere under which the same specimen is placed. This corre lation is expressed as LOI Limiting Oxygen Index , i.e., as the minimum percentage of oxygen capable of supporting the combustion of the specimen under an oxy gen nitrogen atmosphere impinging against the specimen flowing from down upwards. 200 g 1.92 mol of N 2 aminoethyl ethanolamine 99 are mixed with 115.2 g 1.92 mol of urea in a 1 litre, 4 neck flask, equipped with condenser, thermometer, mechanical stirrer and nitrogen inlet. By operating under a nitrogen atmosphere, the temperature of the mixture is increased up to 200 C during a 1 hour time, and is maintained at that value for four hours. Ammonia is evolved, which is absorbed in water. At the end of ammonia evolvement, the yellow coloured solution is cooled to 50 C, and to it an equal volume of tetrahydrofuran is added. The products crystallizes off nearly at once by cooling to room temperature. The whole is then cooled to 5 10 C to increase the crystallization yield, and is filtered at such a temperature under nitrogen. The crystallized product is washed with cool tetrahydrofuran. A white crystalline product is obtained 225 g yield about 90 , of hygroscopic character. The elemental and spectral I.R. N.M.R. analyses are in accordance with the structure The process is carried out similarly to Example 1, using diethanolamine, to prepare the ureic compound In particular, 105 g 1.0 mol of diethanolamine are treated with 30 g 0.5 mol of urea at 180 200 C, under a nitrogen atmosphere. The reaction mixture is distilled under high vacuum, to give 74 g yield 63 of a product boiling at 140 C 0.1 mm The elemental analysis and the spectral I.R. N.M.R. analyses confirm the above indicated structure. 1 Hydroxyethyl imidazolidin 2 one 30 g 0.23 mol , prepared by thermal condensation of N 2 aminoethyl ethanolamine with urea, is reacted with urea phosphate 18.2 g 0.115 mol , operating under a nitrogen atmosphere at 140 C and for 2 hours, inside a glass flask equipped with mechanical stirrer, an inert gas inlet and an outlet for the gas evolved. During this time period the evolvement occurs of carbon dioxide and ammonia. To the reaction mixture, urea 6.90 g 0.115 mol is then added, and the temperature is slowly increased, during a 1 hour time, up to 180 C and is kept at this value for the subsequent two hours. At the end of this last time period, no gas is any longer evolved, and the reaction mixture is cooled to room temperature, causing the solidifying thereof, and the so obtained solid product is ground to a powder form. The IIa additive is so obtained, which, on the basis of I.R., N.M.R. and elemental analyses is in accordance with the following structure This compound shows, at the thermogravimetric analysis, a T The additive IIa of Example 3 can be alternatively prepared by means of the following procedure. 0.2 mol 13.0 g of 2 hydroxyethyl imidazolidin 2 one This compound is hydrolyzed at 2 C with an aqueous solution of ammonia about 10 by weight . The solution is evaporated to dryness, operating at a temperature lower than 40 C, and the dry product is separated from ammonium chloride by extraction with methanol. The product obtained, as a white powder 24.4 g yield 72 corresponds to the formula Polyphosphoric acid 85 by weight of P₂O₅ 11.4 g is reacted with the compound 28.1 g yield 97.1 are obtained of a reaction product which, on the basis of the potentiometric analysis titration with NaOH displays the behaviour of a dibasic acid, with equivalent weight 106.5, in accordance with the structure 25 g of this compound are treated in aqueous solution, at low temperature 5 C with 15.0 g of melamine, added as small portions. After 5 hours, a white crystalline powder is filtered off, and is repeatedly washed with water. The product is dried, and 30.3 g are weighed yield about 75 . Spectral evidences I.R. strong band within the range ν 1050 1150 cm ¹ , and the elemental analysis are in accordance with the structure To the additive obtained as shown at Example 3 73 g 0.21 mol melamine 26.6 g 0.21 mol is added, and the mixture is thoroughly mixed under an inert atmosphere inside a 500 ml glass reactor, immersed in a silicone oil bath at the temperature of 180 C. The mixture, of resinous appearance, is kept stirred at this temperature for 2 hours, after which the temperature is increased up to 250 C. After further four hours of reaction, the evolvement of gas ammonia and water vapour ends. On cooling, 83 g are recovered of product, the elemental analysis of which is substantially in agreement with the structure However, for the product in question, together with the above reported structure, the existence can be likely conjectured of species derived from it either by elimination of intramolecular water and or by intermolecular condensations. The existence of these species confers a much lower solubility to the product in question. The additive of Example 6 is obtained by means of the following alternative procedure. 1 Hydroxyethyl imidazolidin 2 one 100 g 0.76 mol is mixed with melamine phosphate 85 g 0.38 mol and with urea 45.6 g 0.76 mol in a 500 ml glass reactor. The mixture is heated under stirring and under inert atmosphere at 150 C for 6 hours and at 180 C for 3 hours. The temperature is then increased up to 250 C and the reaction is continued for further 4 hours, after which the evolvement of ammonia and carbon dioxide ends. The recovered reaction product about 130 g is substantially analogue to that obtained at Example 6, on the basis of the elemental analysis. By following the procedure as described in the patent specification, a mixture is prepared containing polypropylene 76.5 by weight , additive IIa of Example 1 9 by weight and commercial ammonium polyphosphate PHOS CHECK This mixture is formed int o granules and from the granules the A and B specimens are prepared. The specimens, submitted to the fire performance test, have given the following results UL 94 V 0LOI 30 The operating procedure is similar to Example 8, using the additive IIa of Example 5. The following results are obtained from the test for fire performance of the specimens UL 94 V 0LOI 32 The operating procedure is similar to Example 8, the following blends being prepared The polypropylene used contains the antioxidizers and the internal lubricant in the proportions as indicated at Example 6. The additive I is the commercial ammonium polyphosphate as reported at Example 8. The IIa additive is the one prepared in the above Example 6. In the Table, the LOI values determined on the specimens prepared from the compositions are reported. The operating procedure is similar to that of Example 8, using the additive IIa as prepared at Example 5. The following results are obtained from the tests of fire performance of the specimens UL 94 V 0LOI 29.6