# RETROVIRAL POLYPEPTIDES ASSOCIATED WITH HUMAN CELLULAR TRANSFORMATION

## Claims
Polypeptid mit einem Molekulargewicht von weniger als etwa 20 kd, das eine der folgenden Aminosäuresequenzen enthält

## Description
The recent discovery of retroviruses capable of infecting human lymphocytes, particularly T cells, resulting in their transformation to lymphomas and leukemias offers insight into the etiology of these types of tumors. For the most part, transforming retroviral viruses observed with mammals other than humans had been divided into two groups chronic transforming viruses, which integrate into the genome and are thought to lead to transformation by insertional mutagenesis, with activation of a cellular gene and acutely transforming retroviruses which carry specific transforming sequences viral oncogenes which are related to cellular oncogenes or proto oncogenes Hayward In order to be able to understand the mechanism of transformation or infection by viruses in the HTLV family to allow for diagnosis, therapy, and The nucleotide sequences of HTLV I and II demonstrate a highly conserved region located between Polypeptides and antibodies thereto are provided, where the polypeptides are associated with immunogenic sites involving expression products of viruses in the HTLV family, particularly HTLV I and HTLV II. The polypeptides and fragments thereof are related to the expression products of the X region of an HTLV virus and can be used as immunogens for the production of antisera or monoclonal antibodies specific for the epitopic sites. The polypeptides and antibodies may be used as reagents in diagnosis, for the proliferation of the viruses, in transformation or infection of T cells and other immune cells, and in the investigation of the etiology of cell transformation or infection by these retroviruses. In particular, the polypeptides may be used in the detection of anti X region protein antibodies which have been demonstrated herein to be associated with exposure to and or infection with HTLV. Novel polypeptides are provided which are fragments of the expression products of the X regions of viruses in the HTLV family or fusion products of such polypeptides. Both the polypeptides and the antibodies may serve as immunogens for the production of polyclonal antisera or monoclonal antibodies. These materials may serve as reagents in diagnostic assays, in the regulation of growth of HTLV, in the transformation or infection of T cells or other immune cells, as well as in the investigation of the etiology of cellular transformation by HTLV viruses. HTLV as used in the specification and claims herein is intended to connote retroviruses capable of infecting human T cells and other immune cells, having substantial homology with HTLV I or II 40 , and having in the viral genome the structural genes Proteins expressed by the X region of HTLV typically have a molecular weight in the range of about 35kd to about 42kd, depending on the specific virus and infected organism or cell line employed. More usually, the proteins encoded by X region of HTLV range from about 37kd to about 40kd in molecular weight. In particular, the polypeptides encoded for in the region described as pX IV in the X sequence of HTLV I and the region described as pX c in the X sequence of HTLV II are characterized by being respectively about 40kd and 37kd. For convenience, they will be referred to respectively as p40 Polypeptides according to the invention have a molecular weight of less than about 20kd and containing one of the following amino acid sequences In polypeptides of interest which contain more than one of the above sequences, amino acid sequences 1 and 2 are separated by at least five amino acids, usually not more than twelve amino acids, typically by nine amino acids. Sequences 2 and 3 are separated by at least ten amino acids, usually by fewer than 30 amino acids, typically by 22 amino acids. Sequences 3 and 4 are separated by at least 20 amino acids, and may be separated by 200 or more amino acids, typically being separated by 91 amino acids. These sequences may be joined together to form a larger polypeptide having either of the following sequences which correspond to p37 The foregoing polypeptides, and portions thereof, can be advantageously used as immunogens for the production of antisera or monoclonal antibodies specific for epitopic sites in the pX expression products of HTLV I and II and as reagents labelled and unlabelled to detect antibodies to the X region proteins of HTLV. To be useful in the detection methods of the invention, the polypeptides of the invention are suitably obtained in substantially pure form, that is, typically about 50 w w or more purity, substantially free of interfering proteins and contaminants. Preferably, these polypeptides are isolated or synthesized in a purity of at least about 80 w w and, more preferably, in at least about 95 w w purity, being substantially free of other proteins from humans, viral proteins, or other contaminants. Using conventional protein purification techniques, homogeneous polypeptides of at least about 99 w w can be obtained and these homogeneous polypeptides are most desirably used in the methods of the invention. In addition, proteins can be obtained in substantially pure form by use of the antibodies herein described in immunoabsorbant affinity chromatography. This immunoabsorbant affinity chromatography is carried out by first linking the antibodies to a solid support and then contacting the linked antibodies with lysates of cells infected with one of the HTLV viruses. Proteins obtained in this manner can be used in the methods of the invention to detect the presence of HTLV or its products. The polypeptides greater than about 30 amino acids, particularly greater than about 50 amino acids may serve as immunogens or if less than about 10kd, particularly less than about 6kd, may be joined to other materials, particularly polypeptides, as fused or covalently joined polypeptides to be used as immunogens. The subject polypeptides may be fused or covalently linked to a variety of immunogens, such as keyhole limpet hemocyanin, bovine serum albumin, tetanus toxoid, etc. See for example, These antibodies can be used in various ways, depending upon whether they are polyclonal or monoclonal. The polyclonal antibodies can be used to detect polypeptides having the epitopic site s associated with the polypeptides or proteins expressed by the X region of the HTLV viruses. Thus, they can detect the presence of any polypeptide which shares one or more epitopic sites of the subject polypeptides. The monoclonal antibodies, by way of contrast, can detect specific sites or can be used in conjunction to demonstrate the presence of two specific epitopic sites. Thus, the monoclonal antibodies provide for greater specificity as to a specific epitopic site or sites present on the same or different polypeptides. The subject polypeptides, their fusion products, and antibodies specific for the polypeptides find use in a variety of diagnoses for detecting the presence of HTLV viruses or individual types of such viruses. This can be done by employing lysates, fixing cells and employing immunofluorescence, detecting the presence of related antibodies or antigens in serum, or the like. The polypeptides and or antibodies may be used without modification or may be modified in a variety of ways, for example, by labeling. By labeling is intended joining, either covalently or non covalently, a moiety which directly or indirectly provides for a detectable signal. A wide variety of labels are known and have found extensive use in both the scientific and patent literature. These labels include radionuclides, enzymes, substrates, cofactors, inhibitors, fluorescers, chemiluminescers, particles, magnetic particles, and the like. Illustrative patents include 3,817,837, 3,850,752, 3,939,350, 3,996,345, 4,277,437, 4,275,149 and 4,366,241, which are merely illustrative of various techniques which are available. The manners for linking the polypeptides to the various labels have been extensively reported in the literature and do not require extensive exemplification here. Many of the techniques involve the use of activated carboxyl groups, either through the use of carbodiimide or active esters to form peptide bonds the formation of thioethers by reaction of a mercapto group with an activated halogen, e.g., chloroacetyl, or activated olefin, e.g., maleimide, for linkage, or the like. The assays may be homogeneous without a separation step between free reagent and receptor ligand complex or heterogeneous with a separation step between free reagent and receptor ligand complex . Various commercial assays exist, such as radioimmunoassay RIA , ELISA, EIA, EMIT, SLIFA, and the like. Unlabeled antibodies can be employed by employing a second antibody which is labeled which recognizes the antibody to a subject polypeptide. These assays have also found extensive exemplification in the literature. Antibodies to either of the peptides p40 Frequently, the reagents are supplied in kits, so as to optimize the sensitivity of the assay. For the subject invention, depending upon the nature of the assay, the protocol, and the label, either labeled or unlabeled antibody, or labeled polypeptide is provided, usually in conjunction with other additives, such as buffer, stabilizers, materials necessary for signal production, e.g., substrates for enzymes, and the like. Desirably, the reagents are provided as a dry powder, where the reagents may be reconstituted in an aqueous medium having appropriate concentrations for performing the assay. The antibodies can also be used for affinity chromatography in isolating the polypeptide produced by HTLV I or II or analogous polypeptides. Columns can be prepared where the antibodies are linked to a solid support, e.g., particles, such as agarose, Sephadex, or the like, where a cell lysate may be passed through the column, the column washed, followed by increasing concentrations of a mild denaturant, e.g., urea, whereby the purified proteins will be released. The reagents of the present invention may be used to detect antibodies to the X region proteins in patients suspected of being exposed to HTLV and or suffering from HTLV related diseases. It has been found by the inventors herein that the presence of anti X region antibodies in sera shows a higher correlation with HTLV exposure and disease in some cases than the presence of either anti gag and anti env antibodies, and such results are set forth in detail in the Experimental section hereinafter. A wide variety of protocols may be employed for detecting the anti X region antibodies, normally employing either labeled or unlabeled p40 Screening for the x region antibodies may be combined with screening for other HTLV related antibodies, particularly anti gag and anti env antibodies. As demonstrated in the Experimental section hereinafter, there are some instances where a patient suffering from HTLV related disease, or exposed to HTLV, will have anti gag and or anti env antibodies but be negative for anti X region antibodies. Thus, a combined screen for all three antibodies may provide the highest reliability. The following examples are offered by way of illustration and not by way of limitation. The following amino acid sequences were prepared by conventional synthetic procedures Each of the oligopeptides described above was individually linked to keyhole limpet hemocyanin Lerner The SUB I cell line was derived from normal human adult peripheral blood cells transformed Total cellular proteins were metabolically labeled with ³⁵S methionine by culturing cells at a concentration of 1x10⁶ cells ml in methionine free Earle s modified minimal essential media Flow Laboratories, McLean, VA supplemented with 2 glutamine, 10 dialysed fetal calf serum in 100µCi ml of ³⁵S methionine 600Ci mmole, Amersham, Arlington Heights, IL at 37 C for a period of 4 5hr. The cells were then washed twice in cold 4 C phosphate buffered saline, pH 7.4 and lysed at a concentration of 4x10⁶ cells ml in RIPA buffer 50mM NaCl, 1 sodium deoxycholate, 1 Triton X 100, 0.1 SDS, 10mM Tris HCl, pH 7.2 and 1mM phenylmethylsulfonyl fluoride . The cell extracts were clarified by centrifugation at 100kg for 60min at 4 C. Immunoprecipitation reaction mix consisted of 10µl of the indicated sera and 8x10⁶cpm of clarified cell lysate in a final volume of 250µl of RIPA buffer containing 2mg ml BSA and 0.07 SDS. The antigen antibody reaction was carried out overnight at 4 C. Immunoprecipitates were collected by addition of 60µl of a 10 suspension of Pansorbin Calbiochem Behring, La Jolla, CA for 30min at 4 C. The samples were then washed four times in RIPA buffer and analyzed on 7.5 SDS polyacrylamide gels as described by Laemmli, A protein of 40kd was consistently immunoprecipitated from these cells with antisera directed to either of the sequence 1 or sequence 2 peptides. This protein was not precipitated by preimmune sera and the immunoprecipitation of this protein could be completely competed away with the relevant peptide indicating a specific antigen antibody reaction. This protein was not found in control hematopoietic cell lines, including a transformed T cell line which was not infected with HTLV, i.e., MOLT 4 nor observed with HL 60. The JLB I cell line was an HTLV II transformed T cell line which was derived from the same normal donor whose cells were used to establish the SLB I cell line. In these cells, a protein of 37kd was found using the same antisera as described above, employing the same procedures and controls. A second protein of lower molecular weight, approximately 30kd, was also identified in the JLB I cell line using the anti sequence 2 sera. This protein was not recognized by anti sequence 1 sera. In the next study, HTLV II infected B cells were employed Chen Antisera directed against sequence 3 failed to recognize any unique protein in either HTLV I or II, which is inconclusive in view of the small size of the peptide. Restriction fragments from the X region of HTLV I were cloned and expressed as fusion proteins in The antibodies produced from each of the peptide fragments were found to be reactive with both the p40 Sera from patients suspected of suffering from HTLV I induced diseases and from normal individuals were screened for the presence of antibodies to the p40 Sera from the following groups were tested The testing of the sera was accomplished by liquid phase immunoprecipitation. Briefly, HTLV I infected cells were incubated with ³⁵S methionine and lysed. The cellular lysates, including labelled X, gag, and env proteins, were then combined with sera from the above patient groups as well as with anti p40 The remaining pellet was dissociated by boiling in a mercaptoethanol sodium dodecylsulfate solution, and centrifuged to remove the bacterial cells. The supernatants, containing the dissociated antibodies and antigens, were then run on a polyacrylamide gel, where only the labeled antigens were detectable by autoradiography. The X, gag, and env proteins were distinguished on the basis of size. The results are set forth in Table I. Overall, of the 53 patients with HTLV I associated disease, 41 77 had detectable levels of antibodies to the p40 Of 30 patients with ATL, 26 87 had detectable antibody to p40 These data indicate that patients infected with HTLV I, as well as suspected carriers of HTLV I, do produce antibody to the p40 It is evident from the above results, that proteins specific for HTLV I and HTLV II are expressed by sequences found in the X region of the respective viruses. Antibodies prepared in accordance with the subject invention provide for the detection of such sequences, as well as the determination of the presence of HTLV viruses and which of the viruses is present. In addition, the antibodies, polypeptides and recognized proteins may be used as reagents for the detection of the individual viruses and the determination of the nature of infection and the etiology of tumor formation. Although the foregoing invention has been described in some detail by way of illustration and example for purposes of clarity of understanding, it will be obvious that certain changes and modifications may be practiced within the scope of the appended claims.