# Noncontact testing of integrated circuits.

## Abstract
The method comprising covering metal test pads 4 of an integrated circuit chip to test 11 , with a photon transmissive passivation layer 2 susceptible to photon assisted tunneling, covering the layer 2 with a thin conductive photon transparent overlayer 3 , and then accessing the test pads through the passivation layer and conductive overlayer, by a pulsed laser to provide voltage modulated photon assisted tunneling through the insulation layer, to the conductive overlayer as an electron current, and detecting the resulting electron current, thus providing a nondestructive test of integrated circuits. The passivation, normally present to protect the integrated circuit, also lowers the threshold for photoelectron emission. The conductive overlayer acts as a photoelectron collector for the detector. A chip to test which is properly designed for photon assisted tunneling testing has test sites accessible to laser photons even though passivated. Such a chip to test may be nondestructively tested in air at one or several stages of its processing, without the sacrifices of mechanical probing or of bringing test sites out to output pads.

## Claims
1. A method of testing an integrated circuit chip to test, characterised in that each integrated circuit to be placed under test has at least one conductive test site 4 , the test sites are covered by a passivation layer 2 , the passivation layer being of a material which is photon transmissive and susceptible to photon assisted tunneling, a thin conductive overlayer 3 is provided over the passivation layer 2 , the overlayer being penetrable by photons, integrated circuit test exercise means are applied to the chip to test to cause electronic activity in the chip to test appropriate to the desired test, as as to provide at a given test site a voltage potential related to operation, pulse laser means 6 are operated to access a selected test site on the chip to test as as to excite photoemission at values related to the instantaneous voltage potential at the accessed test site whereby the accessed test site provides via photon assisted tunneling through the passivating layer 2 to the conductive overlayer 3 differing values of electron currents as a function of operation voltage differences, and current measurement means 9 is connected to the overlayer 3 to take readings of tunneling electron currents which in turn are a composite function of the laser light excitation of the test sites and the instantaneous voltage at such test sites, whereby the test site accessed by the pulsed laser provides differing readings for proper operation and for faulty operations, and the integrating circuit may be tested without destructive contact probing.

## Description
This invention relates to noncontact testing of integrated circuits. Z. A. Weinberg and A. Hartstein, Photon Assisted Tunneling from Aluminium into Silicon Dioxide, Solid State Communications 20, 179 1976 describes the theory of photon assisted electron tunneling and its use in an experimental demonstration. EP A Application No. 851126102 shows a tester which allows testing in vacuum of the dynamic operation and performance of high speed very large scale integration VLSI circuits, including on chip contactless measurement of AC switching waveforms picosecond time scales as well as logic state evaluation nanosecond time scales using high energy photons about 5 6 eV . Electron beam testing methods are also known. These testing methods also require surface availability of metal conductor points and are therefore inadequate for testing of passivated circuits. Furthermore, the electron beam causes damage to passivating layer materials such as oxides and must therefore be carefully directed away from such areas even in current electron beam testing of metal points available at the surface. The invention permits room environment non contact testing even though the integrated circuit be passivated by an insulation layer, does not require high energy beams, and does not require contacts open to the surface. The object of the invention is to provide sensitive room environment real time laser testing of integrated circuits with test access pads buried underneath a passivation layer, by the use of a transparent conductive metallic overlayer on the chip to test. Another object of the invention is to extend laser testing of VLSI and VHSIC circuits to carry out room environment real time testing of AC switching waveforms and logic states with oxide, insulator, or passivation layers present on top of the metal test points, thus bringing the method closer to addressing the condition of the chip after manufacturing and making possible the testing in air rather than in a vacuum. A feature of the invention is the use of a thin metallic overlayer over the passivation layer of a chip to test, the metallic layer being thin enough to transmit the laser selection beam but yet conductive enough to serve as a collector for photoemitted electrons. In this specification, chip to test means a chip having an integrated circuit and intended to be tested. Another feature of the invention is the biasing of the metallic overlayer to provide increased discrimination. Still another feature of the invention is the relative ease of removal of the metallic overlayer. An advantage of the invention is that the combination of thin insulation layer and metallic collector layer provides a photoemission transfer path for relatively low energy photons, and thus require relatively low energy laser selection beams available from conventional lasers. Another advantage of the invention is that it achieves high time resolution 5 picosecond or less and lateral resolution 1 micron or less and high voltage resolution of order 1mV in reasonable measurement times . The manufacturing advantage of truly nondestructive testing in air, with passivation layers present, which allows testing in the same tool used to carry out personalization, significantly extends the economic advantages of in process testing by providing freer choice of test time and easier test setup. The scope of the invention is defined by the appended claims and how it can be carried into effect is more particularly described hereinafter with reference to the accompanying drawings, in which A chip to test 1 Fig. 1 is mechanically and electrically mounted in a holder 11. The chip to test 1 has an insulating layer 2 as passivation, and a conductive metal overlayer 3 which serves as collector for detector logic 9 to which it is connected by output contact 5. The detector logic 9 is a boxcar integrator system to measure the current pulse. The conductive overalyer 3 may be biased by optical bias generator 10 to control the threshold for photon assisted tunneling. The chip to test 1 has a number of metal test points 4 onto one of which is focussed a laser beam from a laser 6 forming part of a pulsed laser system, by focussing optics 7. Chip input output lines 8 are connected to holder 11. An integrated circuit is accessed for testing by focussing a pulsed laser beam onto an included metal test point 4 buried underneath the thin film insulating layer 2 and metallic overlayer 3, causing photoemission out of the metal test pad, through the insulator to the metallic overlayer as collector. The metal overlayer collector is effectively transparent to the laser light because it is thin a few tens of nanometres or less or optically transparent.The laser beam passes through the metallic overlayer and the passivation layer readily the result is photoemission caused by relatively low energy laser photons about 2.5 3.0eV . FIG. 2 is an energy level diagram showing laser induced excitation of electrons in the metal test point followed by tunneling through the insulation passivation layer 2 FIG. 1 to the conducting layer 3 FIG. 1 which serves as collector. Even lower energies are employed than the barrier energy B FIG. 2 because the laser photon energy should be slightly less than the threshold for electron emission from the metal test point into the insulator conduction band. In this way, with an electric field applied across the insulator, photon assisted tunneling occurs through the top of the barrier at the metal test point interface with the insulator. A pulsed laser beam about 5 picoseconds pulse width or less is focussed onto a metal test point about 1 micrometre diameter or less , but in this case the test point is buried underneath a thin film insulating layer e.g., silicon dioxide of order 0.1 1.0 micrometres thick. The presence of the insulator or passivation layer causes two fundamental changes in the situation. First, the threshold energy for photoelectron emission from the metal test pad into the insulator is notably lowered by the insulating layer. Weinberg and Hartstein show that the threshold for injecting electrons from the metal into the insulator conduction band is only 3.15 eV for the aluminium silicon dioxide interface, compared to about 4.2 eV from air exposed aluminium into vacuum. This threshold lowering makes it possible to use laser photons with lower energy, i.e., in the range around 2.5 3.0eV. Because most insulators used in devices as oxides or passivation layers are transparent in this range, the laser light passes through the passivation layer readily. Such lower energy laser photons are much easier to generate using conventional laser sources than are higher energy photons. Even lower energies are employed because the laser photon energy should be slightly less than the threshold for direct electron emission from the metal test point over the barrier FIG. B in FIG. 2 and into the insulator conduction band. The tunneling through the barrier is enabled by the electric field present across the insulator due to the voltage bias applied to the metallic overlayer as referenced to the voltage of the metal test point. Second, a different method must be used to discriminate the voltage of the metal test point. This method is shown schematically in Fig. 1. After fabrication of the chip 1 is complete and the passivation layer 2 has been added, a thin metallic overlayer 3 collector consisting of a thin conductive metal or a conducting transparent layer like tin oxide is deposited on top of the passivation layer 2. The conducting overlayer 3 is sufficiently thin or otherwise transparent that the incident laser beam can still penetrate to the metal test pad 4. For an absorbing metal collector, the thickness should be of order of 10 nm. By contacting the collector electrically, with contact 5, conducting overlayer 3 can be biased and used to measure the current it collects. The testing procedure then consists of measuring the current pulse collected as a result of the picosecond laser pulse applied to a specific metal test point on the chip at a specific time. The conducting overlayer 3, thin metal on top of the passivation layer 2, can then be removed if needed. To achieve voltage sensitivity, the small changes in voltage of the metal test point must result in significant changes in the amount of current measured at the collector. Once electrons have been excited into the insulator conduction band, they can travel substantial distances well over 100 nm even for a poor quality oxide in the presence of an accelerating field. The voltage sensitivity needed is obtained by photon assisted tunneling as depicted in Fig. 2. The laser photon energy is chosen to be somewhat below the threshold for direct photoemission from the metal test pad into the insulator conduction band B in FIG. 2 . The laser photon excites electrons to an energy just below that of the top of the interface barrier at the metal test point insulator interface , and these excited electrons can then tunnel through the barrier. Because the tunneling probability depends exponentially on the field in the insulator and the collector bias is fixed, the tunneling current measured at the collector is very sensitive to the voltage of the metal test pad emitter . The largest signals are obtained by choosing the laser photon energy very close to the energy threshold B, while highest voltage sensitivity is achieved by reducing the tunneling current somewhat and operating somewhat further below threshold e.g., by 0.5eV . For the aluminium silicon dioxide interface, conventional argon and krypton lasers, which are readily focussed to near diffraction limits one micrometre spot size or less and mode locked to achieve picosecond pulse widths, provide the right range of photon energies for this method. The laser testing method disclosed here is directed at real time contactless testing of internal nodes on the chip when passivation layers are already present. Passivation or insulating layers are required. The testing need not be carried out in vacuum, which is a very significant advantage. The chip to test may be a full wafer, an area on a wafer, a full chip, an area on a chip, or other related item, and may be called simply a chip . Three specific applications are as follows In cases where in air testing is desirable but there is no permanent passivation layer in place, a thin few tens of nanometres thick temporary passivation layer, of insulating material such as a silicon oxide or plastic such as polyimide, may be temporarily deposited prior to deposition of the thin conductive overlayer. There has been described a photon assisted tunneling room environment testing procedure by which conductive test sites of a passivated integrated circuit wafer, covered with a thin layer of insulation and a transparent conductive layer, are accessed through the transparent conductive layer and the insulation layer by a pulsed laser to provide voltage modulated photoemitted photons which tunnel through the insulation layer to the conductive layer and are detected to provide a nondestructive test of integrated circuits during manufacture or subsequently.