# ACTIVE FILTER CIRCUITS

## Claims
Aktive Filterschaltung

## Description
This invention relates to active filter circuits. Previously proposed active filter circuits developed for use with a semiconductor integrated circuit which is used to process a television signal and a video signal are shown in Figures 1 and 2 of the accompanying drawings. Figure 1 shows an example of a previously proposed low pass filter. In Figure 1, one side of an input signal source 1 is connected to the base of an npn transistor 2 while the other side of the input signal source 1 is grounded. The collector of the transistor 2 is connected to a voltage source terminal 3 to which a positive dc voltage is applied. The emitter of the transistor 2 is connected to the emitter of an npn transistor 4 and the junction or connection point between the emitters of the transistors 2 and 4 is grounded via a constant current circuit 5 through which a predetermined current I flows. The collector of the transistor 4 is connected to the voltage source terminal 3 via a constant current source circuit 6. Also, the collector of the transistor 4 is grounded via a capacitor 7 having a capacitance C which forms a load. The collector of the transistor 4 is further connected to the base of an npn transistor 8 which forms an emitter follower circuit of a feedback loop. The collector of the transistor 8 is connected to the voltage source terminal 3 and the emitter of the transistor 8 is grounded via a constant current circuit 9. The emitter of the transistor 8 is further connected to the base of the transistor 4 and an output terminal 10 is led out from the emitter of the transistor 8. In principle, the active filter circuit shown in Figure 1 forms a mutual conductance Gm feedback type primary filter circuit as shown in Figure 3, and its filter characteristic H ω is represented by where re is the emitter resistance re kT qI of the transistors 2 and 4 and ω is the angular frequency. The Gm feedback type primary filter circuit shown in Figure 3 will be described briefly. If the level of an input signal supplied to an input terminal 1a is taken as L, the amplification factor of a differential amplifier circuit 2a is taken as l r , the dc voltage supplied to a voltage source terminal 3a is taken as H, the capacitance of a capacitor 7 is taken as C and an output level generated at an output terminal 10 is taken as X, the following relationships are established Figure 2 shows another example of a previously proposed primary low pass filter. The primary low pass filter of Figure 2 employs a so called Gilbert circuit. Referring to Figure 2, one side of an input signal source 1 is connected to the base of an npn transistor 11 while the other end of the source 1 is grounded. The emitter of the transistor 11 is grounded via a series circuit formed of a resistor 12 having a resistance R and a constant current circuit 13 having a current I. The collector of the transistor 11 is connected to the emitter of an npn transistor 14, the collector of which is connected to a voltage source terminal 3. The base of the transistor 14 is grounded via a battery 15. The collector of the transistor 11 is connected to the base of an npn transistor 16, the collector of which is connected to the voltage source terminal 3 via a constant current circuit 17. The emitter of the transistor 16 is connected to the emitter of an npn transistor 18, and the junction between the emitters of the transistors 16 and 18 is grounded via a constant current circuit 19 having a constant current I. The collector of the transistor 18 is connected to the voltage source terminal 3. The base of the transistor 18 is connected to the collector of an npn transistor 20, the emitter of which is connected through a resistor 21 having a resistance R to the junction between the resistor 12 and the constant current circuit 13. The collector of the transistor 20 is connected to the emitter of an npn transistor 22, the collector of which is connected to the voltage source terminal 3. The base of the transistor 22 is connected to the base of the transistor 14. The collector of the transistor 16 is grounded via a capacitor 7 having a capacitance C which forms a load. Also, the collector of the transistor 16 is connected to the base of an npn transistor 23 which forms an emitter follower circuit of a feedback loop. The collector of the transistor 23 is connected to the voltage source terminal 3 and the emitter of the transistor 23 is grounded via a series circuit formed of a resistor 24 and a constant current circuit 25. The junction between the resistor 24 and the constant current circuit 25 is connected to the base of the transistor 20 and an output terminal 10 is led out from the junction between the resistor 24 and the constant current circuit 25. In principle, the active filter circuit shown in Figure 2 forms a mutual conductance Gm feedback type primary filter circuit as shown in Figure 3 and its filter characteristic H ω is represented by Although the number of circuit elements constituting the active filter circuit shown in Figure 1 is small, the dynamic range of this active filter circuit is given as Ire and the emitter resistance re of the transistor is very small, whereby the dynamic range of this active filter circuit is significantly narrow. On the other hand, since the dynamic range of the active filter circuit shown in Figure 2 is given as I R re , if the respective resistance values R of the resistors 12 and 21 are increased, this dynamic range can be widened. However, since an active filter circuit such as that shown in Figure 2 requires many circuit elements, when this active filter circuit is used for a large scale integration LSI circuit which uses a number of active filter circuits, the number of circuit elements used therein is increased more. UK Patent Application Publication No. GB A 2 033 182 corresponding to French Patent Application Publication No. FR A 2 437 735 discloses an active filter circuit comprising emitter coupled first and second transistors, a reactance circuit connected to a collector electrode of the second transistor, an output terminal connected to an electrode of the second transistor and a reference potential terminal. According to different arrangements disclosed in GB A 2 033 182, the input signal may be supplied to a base electrode of the first transistor or may be supplied to the collector electrode of the second transistor by way of the reactance circuit. According to a first aspect of the present invention there is provided an active filter circuit comprising According to a second aspect of the present invention there is provided an active filter circuit comprising According to a third aspect of the invention there is provided an active filter circuit according to the above recited first aspect, modified in that Preferred embodiments of the invention described hereinbelow can be constructed so as to provide an active filter circuit having the following advantages The invention will now be further described, by way of illustrative and non limiting example, with reference to the accompanying drawings, in which like references designate like elements and parts throughout, and in which An active filter circuit embodying this invention will now be described with reference to Figure 4. In Figure 4, parts corresponding to like parts of Figures 1 and 2 are designated by the same references and their detailed description will not be repeated. According to the embodiment shown in Figure 4, one end of the input signal source 1 is connected to the base of an npn transistor 26 while the other end of the signal source 1 is grounded. The collector of the transistor 26 is connected to the voltage source terminal 3, while the emitter of the transistor 26 is connected through a resistor 27 having a resistance value R₁ to a junction between the base and collector of an npn transistor 28 which forms a diode and is also connected to the base of an npn transistor 29. The transistors 28 and 29 constitute a differential amplifier circuit. The emitter of the transistor 28 is grounded via a constant current circuit 34 having a constant current I₁. The collector of the transistor 29 is connected to the voltage source terminal 3 and the emitter of the transistor 29 is connected to the emitter of an npn transistor 30 which forms, together with the transistor 29, a differential amplifier circuit. The junction between the emitters of the transistors 29 and 30 is grounded via a constant current circuit 33 having a constant current I₂. The collector of the transistor 30 is connected to the voltage source terminal 3 via a constant current source 35, while the collector of the transistor 30 is grounded via the capacitor 7 which forms a reactance circuit serving as a load. The output terminal 10 is led out from the collector of the transistor 30, which collector is connected to the base of an npn transistor 31. The collector of the transistor 31 is connected to the voltage source terminal 3 and the emitter of this transistor 31 is connected through a resistor 32 having a resistance value R₁ to a junction between the base and collector of an npn transistor 36 which forms a diode and to the base of the transistor 30. The emitter of the transistor 36 is connected to the emitter of the transistor 28. The active filter circuit shown in Figure 4 also forms a Gm feedback type primary filter circuit having the construction shown in principle in Figure 3. In Figure 4, the conditions that Vin L, Vout X and l r l 2R₁ 4re are satisfied. When I₁ I₂, its filter characteristic H ω is given as Thus, the active filter circuit of Figure 4 is a low pass filter circuit in which the condition is satisfied. Also, in the active filter circuit shown in Figure 4, if the current I₁ is taken as a current which is determined by the internal resistance of a semiconductor integrated circuit and the current I₂ is taken as a current which is determined by a resistor externally connected thereto, the following relation is satisfied Thus, its filter characteristic H ω becomes Consequently, it is possible to realise an active filter circuit which does not depend on the internal resistance of the semiconductor integrated circuit. Accordingly, when this active filter circuit is formed in an semiconductor integrated circuit, it is possible to obtain an active filter circuit which has an excellent temperature characteristic and whose filter characteristic is not scattered. The dynamic range of the active filter circuit according to the embodiment of Figure 4 is determined by I₂ 2R₁ 4re so that this dynamic range can be widened similarly to the previously proposed example of Figure 2. Further, according to the embodiment of Figure 4, since the emitter follower circuit is not required in the feedback circuit, it is possible to reduce the number of circuit elements. For example, it is possible to reduce the number of circuit elements by 20 as compared with the example of Figure 2. Therefore, this embodiment of the invention is particularly advantageous when used in an LSI circuit which employs a large number of active filter circuit elements. Furthermore, since there is no emitter follower circuit in the feedback circuit, the phase characteristic of the active filter circuit is never affected so that the active filter circuit of this embodiment has an excellent phase characteristic in the high frequency band, thus presenting a satisfactory frequency characteristic. Figure 5 shows another active filter circuit embodying the present invention which operates as a high pass filter circuit. In Figure 5, parts corresponding to like parts of Figure 4 are designated by the same references and will not be described again. According to the embodiment shown in Figure 5, one end of the input signal source 1 is connected through the capacitor 7 forming a reactance circuit to the collector of the transistor 30 and the other end of the signal source 1 is grounded. The base of the transistor 26 is grounded via a battery 37 which generates a predetermined dc voltage. The circuit otherwise is formed in the same way as in Figure 4. In principle, the active filter circuit shown in Figure 5 forms a Gm feedback type primary filter circuit as shown in Figure 3 and also forms a high pass filter circuit. It will easily be understood that the embodiment shown in Figure 5 can achieve the same action and effect as that of Figure 4. Figure 6 shows another active filter circuit embodying the present invention which operates as a secondary low pass filter. In Figure 6, parts corresponding to like parts of Figure 4 are designated by the same references suffixed with According to the embodiments of the present invention described above, it is possible to obtain an active filter circuit having a wide dynamic range and in which the number of circuit elements can be reduced. The embodiments of the invention become particularly advantageous when applied to an LSI circuit which employs a large number of active filter circuits. Further, embodiments of the present invention make it possible to realise an active filter circuit which does not depend on the internal resistance of a semiconductor integrated circuit. Accordingly, when the active filter circuit is formed into a semiconductor integrated circuit, it is possible to obtain an active filter circuit which has an excellent temperature characteristic and whose filter characteristic can be prevented from being scattered. Furthermore, according to the embodiments of the invention as set forth above, since there is no emitter follower circuit in the feedback circuit it is possible to obtain an active filter circuit which can have a good phase characteristic in the high frequency range and which can have a good frequency characteristic.