# Method of supporting a louvered plastic film.

## Abstract
Louvered plastic film can be more easily handled and installed by coating at least one surface with a solvent free monomer composition and exposing the coating to ultra violet radiation to polymerize the composition to an adhesive state, preferably a pressure sensitive adhesive state.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. Method for supporting a louvered plastic film, 10, 21 which method comprises the steps of 1 coating the louvered plastic film 10, 21 with a solvent free monomer composition which polymerizes upon exposure to ultraviolet radiation to an adhesive state, and 2 exposing the coating 17, 22, 23 to ultraviolet radiation to polymerize the composition. 2. Method as defined in claim 1 wherein the monomer coating 17, 22, 23 is covered by a transparent plastic film 12, 24, 25 to protect it from air during step 2 . 3. Method as defined in claim 2 wherein the transparent plastic film 12, 24, 25 is selected to become permanently bonded to the polymerized composition. 4. Method as defined in claim 2 wherein the transparent plastic film 12, 24, 25 has a release surface permitting it later to be peeled away to expose the adhesive coating 17, 22, 23 . 5. Method as defined in claim 4 including the subsequent steps of peeling away the transparent plastic film 12, 24, 25 , and employing the exposed adhesive coating 17, 22, 23 to bond the louvered plastic film 10, 21 to a transparent supporting member 30 . 6. Method as defined in claim 5 wherein the transparent supporting member 12, 24, 25 is a sheet of polycarbonate. 7. Method as defined in claim 1 wherein the monomer composition polymerizes to a pressure sensitive adhesive state. 8. Method as defined in claim 7 wherein the thickness of the resulting pressure sensitive adhesive coating 17, 22, 23 is from 0.01 to 1.5 mm. 9. Method as defined in claim 1 including the subsequent steps of screen printing a design or message directly onto the exposed surface of the louvered plastic film 10, 21 and then overcoating the printed face with an optically clear layer. 10. Method as defined in claim 1, step 1 of which includes coating 17, 22, 23 both surfaces of the louvered plastic film 10, 21 with an ultravioletpolymerizable composition, and step 2 includes exposing both coatings 17, 22, 23 to ultraviolet radiation. 11. Composite comprising a louvered plastic film 10, 21 and an adhesive coating 17, 22, 23 . 12. Composite as defined in claim 11 wherein the adhesive 17, 22, 23 is a pressure sensitive adhesive. 13. Composite as defined in claim 11, the adhesive coating 17, 22, 23 of which is protected by a transparent plastic film 12, 24, 25 . 14. Composite as defined in claim 13 wherein the transparent plastic film 12, 24, 25 has a release surface permitting it to be peeled from the adhesive coating 17, 22, 23 and discarded. 15. Composite as defined in claim 13 wherein the transparent plastic film 12, 24, 25 is permanently bonded by the adhesive coating 17, 22, 23 to the louvered plastic film 10, 21 . 16. Composite as defined in claim 15 wherein the ttansparent plastic film 12, 24, 25 is polycarbonate.

## Description
METHOD OF SUPPORTING A LOUVERED PLASTIC FILM Technical Field The invention provides a method of supporting a louvered plastic film to permit it to be handled and transported without danger of damage. As supported, the louvered plastic film should be more convenient to apply to typical uses than are louvered plastic films now on the market. The supporting structure produced by the novel method is a composite which itself is believed to be novel. Background Art U.S. Patent No. Re. 27,617 Olsen discloses a process of making a louvered light control film by skiving a billet of alternating layers of plastic having relatively low clear and relatively high pigmented optical densities. Upon skiving the billet, the pigmented layers provide light collimating louver elements which, as illustrated in the patent, may extend orthogonally to the surface of the resulting louvered plastic film. U.S. PatentNo. 3,707,416 Stevens discloses a process whereby the light collimating louver elements may be canted with respect to the surface of the louvered plastic film. U.S.Patent No. 3,919,559 Stevens teaches a process for attaining a gradual change in the angle of cant of successive light collimating louver elements. Among uses for louvered plastic films are as lenses in goggles as shown in U.S. Patent No. 3,791,722 Ahlberg et al. to be worn where high levels of illumination or glare are encountered. When used as a transparent covering for a back lighted instrument panel, a louvered plastic film minimizes reflections, e.g., from being cast onto the windshield of an automobile. A louvered plastic film can also be used to give a black and white photographic negative the appearance of a positive made from the negative, as taught in U.S. Patent No. 3,653,138 Cooper . U.S. Patent No. 4,128,685 Lowrey et al. reports that billets from which louvered plastic films have been skived often are heated during the skiving, but that the heat may tend to be absorbed preferentially by the opaque louver material so that the billet employed is softer along the louver lines than along the clear or transparent lines col. 1, lines 13 21 . The patent teaches how to select materials for the billet so that the alternating clear and pigmented opaque layers have relatively uniform heat absorptive ability. The preferred material for the pigmented layers comprises self crosslinking anionic acrylates, water soluble polyazo direct dyes such as Formanil Black G , and finely divided silica. U.S. Patent No. 3,922,440 Wegwerth et al. points out that because louvered plastic films are thin sheet materials 1 they are not by themselves capable of structurally withstanding extreme stresses and 2 they are subject to distortion from physical stress and temperatures col. 1, lines 19 22 . Furthermore, the skiving by which the louvered plastic films are produced results in irregular surfaces. Accordingly, as in Example 1 of that patent, the louvered plastic film usually is laminated under pressure between two clear plastic films, e.g., cellulose acetate butyratet the material usually used in making louvered plastic films. Typically, the louvered plastic film is skived to a thickness from 0.2 to 0.4 mm, and each of the outer clear plastic films has a thickness of about 0.15 to 0.3 mm. Wegwerth s process of laminating louvered plastic films between two clear films requires an expensive press that is expensive to operate, in part from the need to distribute heat uniformly, and in part from the need to apply pressure with precision. Because the resulting laminates cannot be larger than the platens of the press in which they are laminated, the press must be sufficiently large and expensive to produce the largest required size. Disclosure of Invention The invention provides an inexpensive method for supporting a louvered plastic film so that it can be handled and put to use with very little danger of damage.The resulting composite, which is believed to be new, can be produced in substantially continuous lengths that can be wound up for convenient storage or shipment and later unwound and cut to specific lengths with substantially no waste. Briefly, the novel method comprises the steps of 1 coating the louvered plastic film with a solvent free monomer composition which polymerizes upon exposure to ultraviolet radiation to an adhesive preferably transparent state, and 2 exposing the coating to ultraviolet radiation to polymerize the composition. Preferably the monomer composition polymerizes to a pressure sensitive adhesive state for convenience in bonding the louvered plastic film to a supporting member.Surprisingly, a pressure sensitive adhesive layer as thin as 0.01 mm provides adequate support for a louvered plastic film. However, an adhesive layer of somewhat greater thickness, e.g., from 0.04 to 1.5 mm, is preferred to allow for surface irregularities of the louvered plastic film when bonding it to a supporting member. Because the monomer composition may be polymerizable only in the absence of air, it may be covered by a transparent plastic film to protect it from air, and the coating may then be exposed through the transparent plastic film. When that transparent plastic film is abrasion resistant, it may remain as a permanent layer of the resulting composite. Instead, the plastic film can have a release surface permitting it later to be peeled away to expose the adhesive layer by which the louvered plastic film can then be adhered to another supporting member such as a glass plate or a plastic sheet. Useful plastic sheets include polycarbonate, polymethylmethacrylate, polystyrene, and biaxially oriented polyethylene terephthatatçew of which are clear and transparent.Of these, polycarbonate is preferred, because it is flexible and has excellent clarity and resistance to heat. Whether or not the transparent plastic film is removable, an end user may screen print a design or message directly onto the opposite, exposed surface of the louvered plastic film and then overcoat that entire surface and its printing with an optically clear layer. Ordinarily, the composite would then be mounted for use with the printed surface protected from contact. Both surfaces of a louvered plastic film may be coated with an ultraviolet polymerizable composition, and after covering each coating with a transparent plastic film, both coatings may be simultaneously exposed to ultraviolet radiation. Preferably at least one of those transparent plastic films is selected to become firmly bonded to the adhesive layer when it is polymerized, thus lending greater strength to the composite. BriefDessription of Drawings In the drawing, all figures of which are schematic Fig. 1 shows an apparatus for applying an adhesive layer to a louvered plastic film to provide a composite of the invention. Fig. 2 is an edge view of another composite of the invention and Fig. 3 is an edge view showing a use of the composite of Fig. 2. In Fig. I, a louvered plastic film 10 and a transparent plastic film 12 are being fed into a 2 roll coater 14 while a monomer composition from an extrusion bar 16 forms a coating 17 on the louvered plastic film. Upon passing beneath a bank of ultraviolet lamps 18, the monomer composition polymerizes to an adhesive state, and the resulting composite is wound upon itself into a roll 19. When the transparent plastic film 12 has a release surface contacting the polymerized coating 17, it may be peeled from the coating to allow the louvered plastic film 10 to be adhered by the exposed adhesive coating to a substrate. The composite 20 shown in Fig. 2 has a central louvered plastic film 21, a pair of adhesive coatings 22, 23, and a pair of transparent plastic films 24, 25 through which the adhesive coatings have been exposed to ultraviolet radiation from two banks of lamps not shown , one facing each broad surface of the composite. The composite 20 of Fig. 2 may be used as illustrated in Fig. 3 by peeling off and discarding one of the transparent plastic films 24 and adhering the exposed adhesive coating 22 to a bezel of an instrument panel 30.The other transparent plastic film 25, which may be a polycarbonate film, remains permanently in place to protect the louvered plastic film 21. A decorative covering 32 protects the exposed edges of the louvered plastic film 21. Example 1 A louvered plastic film was prepared as described in U.S. Patent No. 4,128,685 at column 2, lines 27 49. As there disclosed, its light collimating louver elements comprise a mixture of finely divided silica and an unpurified black polyazo dye directly dispersed in an acrylate, its clear layers were cellulose acetate butyrate, and its thickness was about 0.15 mm. Onto one surface of the louvered plastic film was applied a coating 0.05 mm thick of a partially polymerized blend of 90 parts of isooctyl acrylate 10 parts of acrylic acid 0.2 parts of photoinitiator 0.1 part of photoactive crosslinking agent. The photoinitiator was 2,2 dimethoxy 2 phenyl acetophenone Irgacure 651 . The photoactive crosslinking agent was Photoactive S triazine B of U.S.Patent No. 4,330,590. After covering the coating with a disposable transparent polyester film having a release surface, the coating was irradiated by a bank of 40 watt fluorescent black light lamps, i.e., F40T12 BL Sylvania, to provide an exposure of 400 millijoules, thus polymerizing the coating to a pressure sensitive adhesive state. The resulting 3 layer composite was wound upon itself into roll form. After removing the disposable transparent plastic film from a piece of the composite, its adhesive layer was used to laminate the louvered plastic film to biaxially oriented poly ethylene terephthalate film, the surface of which had been coated with polyvinylene chloride. With the louvered plastic film of the resulting composite against a rigid back plate, the polyester film was peeled back in anInstron Tensile Tester at the rate of 0.5 cm sec.Resistance to peelback was about 90 to 110 N dm, showing that the adhesive coating had become strongly bonded to the louvered plastic film. In contrast, when a comparable preformed pressure sensitive adhesive layer was transferred to an identical louvered plastic film, the resistance to peelback was on the order of 10 N dm. After removing the disposable film from another piece of the composite of this example, its exposed adhesive was used to laminate the louvered plastic film to a piece of polycarbonate film 0.5 mm in thickness. This composite was adhered to a bezel of a back lighted instrument panel as in Fig. 3, with the louver elements extending horizontally. In a darkened room, no reflections were observed on a pane of glass positioned to simulate the windshield of an automobile. After removing the disposable film from another piece of the composite of this example, it was suspended vertically in an oven at 650C for 7 days. No observable change occured. In contrast, an identical piece of louvered plastic film without any adhesive coating became physically deformed. After removing the disposable film, a fresh piece of the composite of this example was suspended vertically in an oven at 380C and 100 relative humidity for 7 days.No observable change occurred. In contrast, an identical piece of louvered plastic film without any adhesive coating split.