# MATRIX ADDRESSED LIQUID CRYSTAL DISPLAY DEVICE

## Claims
Matrix adressierte Flüssigkristall Anzeigeeinrichtung, welche umfaßt

## Description
The present invention relates to matrix addressed liquid crystal display devices. Recently there has been vigorous development of high density matrix addressed liquid crystal display devices which have a large number of image elements used for image display. Such liquid crystal devices frequently make use of thin film transistor TFT arrays formed by the use of thin film integrated circuit technology on one side of a substrate. Fig. 7 shows an example of the arrangement of a single picture element of a matrix addressed liquid crystal display device. In this figure, a signal line X connected to the drain electrode D of a TFT 1 and an address line Y connected to the gate electrode G of the TFT 1 are arranged in an orthogonal relationship to allow for column and row scanning of elements. The source electrode S of the TFT 1 is connected to one end of the capacity C On the other hand, the capacity C Fig. 8 is a waveform diagram which explains the drive signals for the image element shown in Fig. 7. In a of this figure, the solid line waveform represents the scanning signal voltage V In more detail, the cell voltage drops below the desired reference voltage Vs by the level shift dV, at one voltage polarity and when the polarity is reversed, the cell voltage drops by the level shift dV below the reference voltage Vs. A method disclosed in Japanese Patent Application JP A 59 119328 is provided to equalize the different voltages applied to the cell. By the method, the drain voltage of a thin film transistor is biased at a constant voltage corresponding to the level shift dV for compensating the dV component contained in the cell voltage. Alternatively, the level shift dV is compensated by applying a bias voltage equal to the level shift dV to the common electrode of the liquid crystal cell. However the level shift is not effectively compensated for by such a method. The level shift dV is produced due to the existence of the capacity C taking V Since the dielectric constant for the liquid crystal material e Fig. 9 is a diagram for explaining this behaviour, the vertical axis V shows the display signal voltage V But in practice, since there is a level shift dV in the case of twisted nematic TN type liquid crystal cells with parallel arranged polarizing filter to the nematic molecules, the points P and N corresponding to the white level shift respectively to points P₁ and N₁ and the point O corresponding to the black level shifts to point O₁. The fact that the size of the level shift dV Even though the bias voltage corresponding to dV The present invention seeks to provide a matrix addressed liquid crystal device with long life and superior tonal rendering as well as absence of flicker. In accordance with the present invention there is provided a matrix addressed liquid crystal display device comprising a liquid crystal display including a a pair of opposed substrates b n rows by m columns of switches on one substrate 30 , each including at least one field effect transistor c n address lines Y1 ,.... Yn forming a common connection for gates of the field effect transistors in each row d m signal lines X1 ,.... Xm forming a common connection for drains or sources of the field effect transistors in each column e image display electrodes electrically connected to the field effect transistor so as to be supplied with a liquid crystal cell voltage V The display signal amplitude, which causes the level shift attributable to the capacitance between the gate and display electrodes of the drive transistor and the liquid crystal cell capacitance is selected at different values for the positive and negative sides. As a result the AC drive applied to the liquid crystal cell has substantially identical positive and negative amplitudes. The ratio of the amplitude of positive to negative display signals is preferably selected in the range from 1.5 to 3 for maintaining high quality image. In order that the invention may be more readily understood, the preferred embodiment will now be described by way of example only, with reference to the accompanying drawings, in which The details of the preferred embodiment of the present invention will now be explained in the following with reference to the figures. Figures 1 to 6 show one embodiment of the present invention. As may be seen from Figures 1 and 2, in a liquid crystal display panel 10, there are arranged at equal intervals m integral number address lines Y₁ ,.... Y A thin film field effect transistor 20 and a pixel 21 containing a picture display electrode is provided at each cross point between these lines. The address lines Y₁ , ..., Y Fig.3 is an equivalent circuit diagram showing the field effect transistors in this embodiment. An array of n channel TFTs having signal lines X₁ , ..., X In Figs.2 and 4, the liquid crystal display panel is a TN type with the parallel arranged polarizing filter plate. A light shielding layer 31 is formed on a first transparent substrate 30 and an insulating film 32 is formed to cover this. Then, drain electrodes 33 connected to the signal lines X₁ , ..., X The operation of the liquid crystal display panel 10 shown in Fig.1 will be described next. The address lines Y₁ , ..., Y The drive for this embodiment will now be described by reference to Figs.5 and 6. Fig.5 is a diagram similar to Fig.9, the values for the display voltage V The liquid crystal material used in this embodiment is PCH phenyl cyclo hexane type of which the dielectric constant or permittivity e Referring to Fig. 5, assuming that the scale unit in the ordinate is 1V, since dV However, it is not desirable that the ratio be extremely large, therefore the liquid crystal material may be adopted so that the permittivity ratio e When a display signal voltage V Again, in Fig. 5, only the level shift dV at the black and white levels has been considered, but more precisely one ought to set the amplitude at each display level of the display signal voltage V Also, there is the matter of applying gamma correction to the display signal, allowing for the characteristics of the liquid crystal display device, and in this case also Hitherto, arrangements wherein the source and drain of a FET are connected to the picture element display electrode and signal line respectively have been employed but the connection of the source and drain is optional and it goes without saying that the reverse arrangement is also satisfactory. Further, where the field effect transistor is a complementary TFT pair made up of an n channel and p channel TFT it may be used in the same way as in the case of an n channel transistor, but where a p channel TFT is employed, the polarity of the voltage will be the reverse of that for the n channel TFT. In this case, as regards the display signal voltage supplied to the signal lines, the amplitude of the one polarity constituting the positive potential side with respect to the polarity reference potential will be greater than the amplitude of the other polarity constituting the negative potential side. This invention also finds applicability to a liquid crystal display where a storage capacitance is in parallel with C where C In either case the present invention can be effective to produce good half tone images and an absence of flicker. As has been set out in the foregoing, the matrixaddressed liquid crystal display device according to the present invention, is different from the conventional method applying the bias voltage to the polarity reference potential, using the present invention is possible to provide good tonal rendition and absence of flicker with long life for the array by virtue of the fact that the amplitude of the signal voltage supplied to the signal lines varies on the positive and negative potential sides with respect to the polarity reference potential in a compensatory way so that the voltage applied to the liquid crystal layer is made substantially the same positive and negative polarities. Although this invention has been described in relation to a thin film transistor device, it will find application to any display array which has stray capacitance between its scanning electrode and its display electrode.