# Equipment support apparatus.

## Abstract
A support apparatus primarily for supporting equipment for providing pelvic traction in the home and for clamping to an article of furniture. The apparatus comprises an elongate support 11 carrying thereon two opposed clamping plates 18, 19 one 19 or both of which are adapted to be moved towards or away from each other to clamp or release respectively the support to an article of furniture, means 14 to cause said movement being located at the one end of said support 11, normally remote from the plates 18, 19. An elongate extension 20 of said support 11 is provided to locate with and be locked to said support 11 in such manner as to conceal said means 14.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A support apparatus characterised by an elongate support 11 carrying thereon two opposed clamping plates 18, 19 one or both of which are adapted to be moved towards or away from each other to clamp or release respectively the support 11 to an article of furniture, means 14 to cause said movement being located at the one end of said support 11 , normally remote from the plates 18, 19 and an elongate extension 20 of said support 11 being provided to locate with and be locked to said support 11 in such manner as to conceal said means 14 . 2. A support apparatus as claimed in Claim 1, charaoterisedin that said support has two elements 10, 17 inter associated with each other towards or at ad s cent ends of each of which a respective clamping plate 18, 19 is carried. 3. A support apparatus as claimed in Claim 2, characterised in that the elements are a screw threaded spindle 10 in internal axial location in, but spaced from a tubular housing 11 , the spindle hO being axially and longitudinally fast but rotatably movable, there being an elongate slot 16 in the housing wall through which the respective clamping plate 19 is carried by a nut 17 riding on the spindle 10 whereby on clockwise or anti clockwise rotation, the respective clamping plate 19 will be moved up and down the spindle 10 along the slot 16 and away or towards the other clamping plate 18 respectively. 4. A support apparatus as claimed in Claim 3, characterised in that said means 14 comprises a bifurcated handle 14 which is hingedly attached 15 to and located in alignment with said spindle 1Q to be accommodated within said extension 20 when not in use and normal to said spindle 10 when said extension 20 is removed and the handle 14 is in use. 5. A support apparatus as claimed in any preceding claim characterised in that said elongate extension 20 is engaged and locked to said support 11 by a bayonet fitting 21, 23 .

## Description
EQUIPMENT SUPPORT APPARATUS This invention relates to equipment support apparatus, particularly but not exclusively, for clamping to an article of furniture, such as a bed base or frame. The support apparatus, while it has been designed primarily s for use with equipment used in pelvic tractt n, can be used for other purposes. Low back pain is currently treated in hospital by first a period of two to three weeks complete rest followed by further investigation if required. During this period of initial rest, a pelvic traction is applied. Currently, this makes use of a system of weights supported on a frame erected at both ends of a hospital bed. It has been felt that if this period of rest could take place in the domestic as opposed to hospital environment then, as well as a large saving to the hospital, there would be a great deal of social benefit to the patient. The system of weights being used at the moment has always been a barrier to achieving the domestic period of rest and the apparatus of the present invention is for use in overcoming these drawbacks, and in this connection the equipment to be used with the support appparatus is a spring drum. In accordance with the present invention, support apparatus comprises an elongate support carrying thereon two opposed clamping plates, one or both of which are adapted to be moved towards or away from each other to clamp or release respectively the support to an article of furniture, means to cause said movement being located at the one end of said support, normally remote from the plates, and an elongate extension of said support being provided to locate with and be locked to said support in such manner as to conceal said means. Preferably, said support has two elements interassociated with each other towards or at adjacent ends of each of which a respective clamping plate is carried. The elements are preferably a screw threaded spindle in internal axial location in but spaced from a tubular housing, the spindle being axially fast but rotatably movable, there being an elongate slot in the housing wall through which the respective clamping plate is carried by a nut riding on the spindle whereby on clockwise or anticlockwise rotation, the respective clamping plate will be moved up and down the spindle and therefore slot and away or towards the other clamping plate respectively. An embodiment of the present invention will now be described, by way of example, with reference to the accompanying drawing, in which Fig 1 shows a front elevation of equipment support apparatus according to the present invention and Fig. 2 shows a side elevation of a detail of a joint between an elongate support and a support extension. Referring to the drawings, the equipment support apparatus comprises an elongate support formed by a screwthreaded spindle 10 in internal axial location in but spaced from a tubular housing 11. The spindle 10 is axially fast but rotatably movable in said housing 11 by being secured at its inner end in an inner ball race and circlip 12 at the inner end of the housing 11 and by an outer ball race and circlip 13 adjacent to the outer end of said housing 11. The spindle 10 projects above the top of the housing 11 and a winding handle 14 comprising means to cause movement, is fixed thereto. The handle 14 at its inner, handle remote end has a bifurcation with axially aligned bores being provided one in each arm of the bifurcation at the outer ends thereof, said bores being alignable with a diametrical bore provided in the outer end of the spindle above the outer end of the housing 11.A pin 15 is passed through the aligned bores. By this connection, the handle 14 is capable of being located at right angles to the spindle 10 in an in use position to rotate the spindle or in an out of use position in axial alignment with the spindle 14 as shown in the drawing. An elongate slot 16 is provided in the housing 11. A nut 17 is in threaded engagement with the spindle 10 to ride up or down said spindle 10 on clockwise or anti clockwise rotation thereof by the handle 14. Two clamping plates 18, 19 are provided towards or at one end of the support, each of triangular configuration and each has a set of three holes therein, the sets being similarly disposed in both plates.Plate 18 is welded to the inner end of the housing 11 and plate 19 is welded to the nut 17. Movement of the nut 17 on the spindle 10 simultaneously moves the plate 19. A tubular support extension 20 is provided to be secured in a sleeve 21 at the outer end of the housing 11. The housing 11 and extension 20 are both of same diameter. The sleeve 21 has an inwardly extending bayonet 22 to be engaged in a slot 23 Fig. 2 in the inner end of the extension 20. The slot 23 is offset along its length to prevent quick unauthorised removal, the extension when secured, requiring to be pulled axially, rotated, then pulled axially again. To secure the extension in position, the handle 14 must be in an out of use position and the reverse movements to releasing followed. The extension 20 has spaced along its length a series of aligned diametrically opposed holes 24 to which equipment such as a spring prum, can be secured or clipped. In use, the support, with its clamping plates 18, 19 spaced apart, is positioned uprightly at the end of a bed or divan mattress and secured thereto by moving the handle 14 to an in use position and rotating to close the plate 19 towards plate 18 to clamp therebetween the bed end or divan mattress. To connect the clamping plates from their flat configuration to be able to clamp against curved or round surfaces, two blocks not shown are provided on opposed faces of each of which are semi circular channels and sets of locating pins respectively.The face with the pins is to lie against the plate 18 or 19 with the pins located in the holes to prevent movement between blocks and plates while the faces with the channels are opposed to each other whereby the support can be clamped around two vertically spaced tubular members of a bed ende hile 14 is then moved to an out of use position and the extension 20 secured to the support as hereinbefore described. By this extension, when located, the winding handle 14 is out of sight and with the configuration of the slot, quick unauthorised release is prevented thereby preventing unauthorised intentional or unintentional release of the support when in use. In a modification, diametrically opposed bayonets may be provided on the sleeve and corresponding diametrically opposed slots provided on the extension. In a further embodiment, the support may be a pneumatic ram and cylinder with a ratchet mechanism provided to support the ram in an extended or retracted state as required and means for the actuation of the ram and cylinder and release for the ram from the ratchet mechanism being provided at the outer end to be concealed by the fitment of an extension.