# POLYMER BOUND CALIXARENES

## Claims
1. Lineares oder vernetztes Polymer, ausgewählt aus Poly thioethern, Polyethern, Styrolpolymeren, Polyacrylaten und Polyorganosiloxanen mit einer Vielzahl von daran gebundenen Calixarengruppen, wobei die Calixarengruppen die Formel haben

## Description
The ion complexation and enzyme mimic abilities of cyclic phenol formalaehyde resins known as calixarenes have recently been reported in such references as Acc. Chem. Res., where R¹ is alkyl, alkoxy, substituted alkyl or substi tuted alkoxy R² is H or alkyl and n 4, 6, or 8, which are particularly useful as storage stable accelerators for cyanoacrylate instant adhesive monomer compositions. While a wide variety of calixarene structures and uses are known, heretofore the only suggestion to prepare polymer materials with calixarene moieties attached thereto has been the reaction of diepoxides, polycarboxylic acids or polyamines with calixarene hydroxyl groups, US Pat. 4,259,464. Polymer bound ethers and cryptate compounds, also known for ion complexing abilities, have been reported in such references as US 4256859 4278784 4447585 J. Polymer Sci., Polymer Chem. ed., The invention of this application is novel polymer structures selected from polythioethers, polyethers, styrenic polymers, polyacrylates and polyorganosiloxanes, which include at least one calixarene group bound thereto selected from where the R¹ groups are the same or different H or hydrocarbyl groups the R² groups are H hydrocarbyl, _CH₂C O OR³, _CH₂C O R³, or _C O NHR³, R³ is H, hydrocarbyl or a halo or hereto atom substituted hydro carbyl group having one or more hydrogen atoms replaced by halo, thio, hydroxy, cyano or amino groups and or one or more carbon atoms replaced by N, S, O or Si atoms or by carbonyl or sulfonyl groups n is an integer of 1 8, m is an integer of 0 7 and n m is 4 8. The calixarene groups terminally or pendently attached to the polymer backbone. The calixarene groups may also be part of a linear or a cross linked polymeric back bone. The polymers are useful as ion exchange resins, phase transfer catalysts, and as coatings, adhesives, or potting materials, especially in electronic applications. A further aspect of the invention are novel dietherified calix 4 arenes from which a wide variety of linear calixarene containing polymers may be prepared. A still further aspect of the invention are novel curable compositions employing functionalized calixarene cross linked agents. Polymer bound calixarene moieties may be incorporated into a wide variety of polymers, including silicones, polyacrylates, polyethers, polyurethanes, polythioethers, and styrene polymers or co polymers. For instance, calixarenes of the formula where R⁴ is alkenyl, alkynyl, or meth acryl can be polymer bound by hydrosilation or thiol ene addition reactions using plural SiH or SH functional compounds. Additionally, such calixarenes, especially the meth acrylate functional calixarenes may be polymerized free radically using standard peroxide, azo, or photo initiators. Still another polymer binding approach is to react parent hydroxy calixarenes or calixarenes having alkyl hydroxy, alkyl thiol or amino functionality, with polyisocyanates in the conventional manner. Still further, compounds or resins with plural alkyl halo functionality may be reacted a with calixarene phenolic hydroxyls or their alkaline metal salts to give polyethers, or b using Friedel Crafts chemistry, with calixarenes unsubstituted in the para position to give polymer bound calixarenes linked through p alkylene groups. Some of these reactions schemes are shown in the following equations RTV silicone using trialkaxysilylcalixarene cross linker Alkenyl calixarenes cross linked with SiH functional silicone Alkenyl calixarenes cross linked with polythiol to give polythioethers Calixarene meth acrylates In addition to reaction with acid halides, meth acryl calixarenes may be prepared by reaction of calixarene hydroxyl groups with isocyanato functional meth acrylate compounds, such as isocyanotoethyl methacrylate or acrylate, or by the two step reaction with diiso cyanates and hydroxy functional meth acrylates. Calixarene polyurethanes Calixarenes bound to polymers with reactive halogen a etherification of phenolic hydroxyls Calixorenes bound to polymers with reactive halogen b Friedel Crafts reaction Suitable R³ hydrocarbyl groups include methyl, ethyl, phenyl, allyl, propargyl and t butyl. Examples of suitable halo or hetero atom substituted R³ groups include Compounds containing such substituted groups may be prepared by conventional organic synthetic methods from the parent phenolic calixarenes or from the corres ponding ethyl or allyl acetate calixarene ethers described in the examples by transesterification or by hydrolysis of the ester to the acid, conversion to the acid chloride and then reaction with suitable HOR³, HSR³, or HNR The R¹ groups in formulas I and II may be H or any hydrocarbyl group, but most preferably are selected from H and alkyl such as methyl, ethyl and t butyl. The R¹ groups of formulas I and II may be any hydro carbyl group but are most preferably selected from H and alkyl, especially H or t butyl. The polymer bound calixarenes of the invention are metal ion sequestrants and are, therefore, useful as coatings and encapsulants for ion selective substrates such as electronic circuit boards as solubilizing agents for ionic materials in polymeric media and as recoverable phase transfer catalysts. The invention may be illustrated by reference to the following non limiting examples A mixture of 1.62 g of 5,11,17,23 tetra tert butyl calix 4 arene, 2.0 g of ethyl bromoacetate, 2.07 g of anhydrous potassium carbonate, and 20 millilitres of dried DMSO was stirred for 48 hours under nitrogen at room temperature. At the end of this time, the mixture was poured into 200 millilitres of a 10 solution of aqueous hydrochloric acid. The precipi tated off white solid was filtered and washed twice with distilled water to yield 2.0 g of crude product. Re crystallization of this material from hot ethanol gave 1.64 g of a crystalline product m.pt. 173 175 C which was characterized by i.r. and n.m.r. spectroscopy as the dietherified calix 4 arene Elemental analysis Calc d for C A mixture of 1.65 g of dietherified calix 4 arene prepared as in Example 1, 0.096 g of sodium hydride, and 25 millilitres of dry THF was refluxed for 21 hours under nitrogen and then 0.585 g of allyl bromide was added dropwise over 10 minutes. The entire mixture was then refluxed for a further one hour, cooled and poured into 150 millilitres of a 10 solution of aqueous hydrochloric acid. The precipitated off white solid was filtered and dried at 50 C overnight. Recrys tallization of this material from hot ethanol gave 1.5 g of a crystalline product M.Pt. 167 168 C which was characterized by i.r. and n.m.r. spectroscopy as a diallyl calix 4 arene Elemental analysis Calc d for C A mixture of 1.9 g of dietherified calix 4 arene prepared as in Example 1. 1.04 g of allyl bromoacetate, and 1.0 g anhydrous potassium carbonate was heated to 130 C under nitrogen with stirring for 30 min. The resulting solid mass was cooled and added to 100 millilitres of a 10 solution of aqueous hydrochloric acid. The undissolved solid was filtered, washed twice with distilled water and dried overnight at 55 C to give 2.7 g of crude product. Recrystallization of this material from hot ethanol yielded 2.1 g of a crystalline product M.Pt. 115 C which was characterized by i.r. and n.m.r. spectroscopy as a diallyl ester of calix 4 arene. Elemental analysis Cald d for C A mixture of 0.339 g of dietherified calix 4 arene prepared as in Example 1, 0.144 g toluene diisocyanate, one drop of stannous octoate, and 5 milliliters of dried chlorobenzene was heated for 48 hours at 65 C under nitrogen. To this mixture was added 0.83 g of poly ethylene glycol of molecular weight 2000 and the entire mixture was then heated for 24 hours at 65 C. After this time, infrared spectroscopic analysis indicated complete comsumption of the isocyanate. The product was then precipitated with petroleum ether and characterized by i.r. spectroscopy and gel permeation chromatography as a polyurethane containing calixarene subunits. A mixture of 0.250 g of the diallyl calix 4 arene prepared as in Example 2, and 16 milliliters of dry toluene containing 50 parts per million of platinum as dihydrogen hexachloroplatinate hexahydrate was heated to 78 C under nitrogen. To this mixture was added a solution of 0.277 g of a difunctional Si H terminated polydimethysiloxane resin of molecular weight 1010 in one milliliter of toluene gradually over 5 minutes. After a further 20 minutes at 78 C, volatiles were removed on a rotary evaporator yielding 0.484 g of a viscous, colorless oil, soluble in common organic solvents, which was characterized by infrared and n.m.r. spectroscopy and liquid chromatography as a low molecular weight silicone polymer mw ca 1950 containing calixarene subunits. A mixture of 0.305 g of the diallyl ester of calix 4 arene as prepared in Example 3, and 20 milliliters of dry toluene containing 50 parts per million of platinum as dihydrogen hexaloroplatinate hexahydrate was heated to 78 C under nitrogen. To this mixture was added a solution of 0.303 g of a difunctional Si H terminated polydimethylsiloxane resin of molecular weight 1010 in one milliliter of toluene gradually over 5 minutes. After a further 20 minutes at 78 C, volatiles were removed on a rotary evaporator yielding 0.63 g of a viscous, pale grey oil, solidifying on standing to a waxy solid which was soluble in common solvents and which was characterized by infrared and n.m.r. spectroscopy and liquid chromatography as a low molecular weight silicone polymer mw ca 2000 containing calixarene subunits. To 0.212 g of unsubstituted calix 6 arene in 5 milliliters of dry dichloromethane was added 0.348 g of toluene diisocyanate and one drop of Stannous octoate catalyst. This mixture was stirred for 24 hours under nitrogen at room temperature. After that time, infrared spectrophotometric analysis showed diminution of the band at 2260 cm By use of chlorobenzene in place of dichloromethane and gradual removal of solvent in a mold it was possible to cast clear, colorless, brittle films of the material. The dried film was insoluble in common organic solvents, indicating substantial cross linking. A mixture of 1.28 grams of unsubstituted calix 4 arene, 0.58 grams sodium hydride, and 25 milliliters of dry THF was refluxed for one hour under nitrogen. After this time, 2.92 grams of allyl bromide was added dropwise over 10 minutes. The entire mixture was then refluxed overnight. After cooling, the reaction mixture was treated with three milliliters of water, dried on a rotary evaporator under vacuum, dissolved under vacuum, dissolved in ether and extracted with an equal volume of water. The ether layer was then dried over magnesium sulfate and solvent was removed under vacuum to yield 1.38 grams of a off white powder characterized by infrared spectroscopy as 25, 26, 27, 28 tetra allyloxy calix 4 arene. This material was dissolved in 17 milliliters of dimethyl p toluidine and heated with stirring to 220 C for 4 hours under nitrogen. The cooled solution was treated with dilute aqueous sulfuric acid precipi tating a white solid which was washed with water and dried to yield 1.4 grams of a material characterized by infrared spectroscopy as 5, 11, 17, 23 tetra allyl calix 4 arene. To this material 0.858 grams was added 1.96 grams of ethyl bromoacetate, 1.22 grams potassium carbonate, and 20 milliliters of acetone. The entire mixture was refluxed under nitrogen for 5 days, poured into dilute aqeous sulfuric acid, extracted into dichloromethane, dried over magnesium sulfate and solvents were removed to yield 1.32 grams of a pale yellow oil characterized by infrared spectroscopy and liquid chromatography as 5, 11, 17, 23 tetra allyl 25, 26, 27, 28 tetra 2 ethoxy 2 oxo ethoxy calix 4 arene. A mixture of 0.149 grams of the tetra allyl calixarene ester prepared in Example 8, and 10 milliliters of dry toluene containing 50 parts per million of platinum as dihydrogen hexachloroplatinate hexahydrate was heated to 80 C under nitrogen. To this mixture was added a solution of 0.324 grams of a difunctional Si H terminated polydimethylsiloxane resin of molecular weight 1010 in one milliliter of toluene over 5 minutes. After a further 20 minutes at 80 C, volatiles were removed on a rotary evaporator yeilding 0.472 grams of a viscous pale yellow oil which was characterized by infrared spectroscopy and viscometry as a high polymer containing silicone and calixarene subunits. A swollen cross linked chloromethylated polystyrene matrix was prepared by treating 0.320 grams of a Merrifield polymer 200 400 mesh, 2 divinylbenzene, 5 mmol Cl g with dichloromethane for 15 minutes, filtering and drying. The swollen polymer was then stirred together with 10 milliliters of dry nitromethane, 0.307 grams of 37, 38, 39, 40, 41, 42 hexa 2 ethoxy 2 oxo ethoxy calix 6 arene, and 0.214 grams of powdered anhydrous aluminum chloride at 100 C for 10 minutes under nitrogen. The mixture was then maintained at 40 C for 17 hours, poured into methanol, washed with a hot methanol aqeous hydrochloric acid solution, with water, with methanol, and finally extracted with acetone for 5 hours to yield 0.221 grams of material charac terized by infrared spectroscopy as a polystyrene gel containing bound calixarene units. A swollen cross linked chloromethylated polystyrene matrix was prepared as described in Example 10, and added to a mixture of 5 milliliters of dry THF, and 0.300 grams of the dietherified calix 4 arene described in Example 1 which had been pre reacted with 0.019 grams of sodium hydride. This mixture was heated to reflux under nitrogen for 4 hours, then poured into methanol. The resulting yellow solid was washed and extracted as described in Example 10 to yield 0.263 grams of a pale yellow material which was characterized by infrared spectroscopy as a polystyrene gel containing bound calixarene units. The ion binding abilities of polymer bound calixarenes were measured by extraction of metal picrates from aqeous into organic media. In each experiment a solution of the calixarene containing polymer in dichloromethane was prepared such that the concentration of calixarene subunits was 2.5 10 A formulation was prepared consisting of 1.0004 g of 5, 11, 17, 23, 29, 35 hexa t butyl 37, 38, 39, 40, 41, 42 hexa allyloxy calix 6 arene, 0.6032 g of pentaerythritol tetrakis β mercapto propionate , 0.0351 g of 2,2 dimethoxy 2 phenyl acetophenone, 8.94 g of toluene, and 9.56 g of chloroform. This solution was coated onto a silicone treated polyester film and irradiated under a medium pressure Mercury arc at an intensity of 55 mw cm² at 365 nm for 15 seconds followed by a post bake at 90 C for one hour to remove residual solvents. The formulation had cured to a brittle film. To a mixture of 0.212 g of unsubstituted calix 6 arene in 10 milliliters of 2 methoxyethyl ether at 0 C was added 0.336 g of potassium hydroxide dissolved in one milliliter of water. The resultant mixture was stirred while 0.546 g of acryloyl chloride was added dropwise over 10 minutes. The reaction mixture was then warmed to room temperature while being stirred for a further 45 minutes. Filtration, washing three times with distilled water, and drying yielded 0.33 g of an off white powder. Chromatography on an acid washed alumine column using dichloromethane as eluent gave a colourless powdered product which was characterized by infrared and n.m.r. spectroscopy as the pentaacrylate of calix 6 arene. A solution was prepared consisting of 0.050 g of this acrylated calixarene, 1.0 g of tetrahydrofuryl acrylate, and 0.01 g of 2,2 dimethoxy 2 phenyl acetophenone. The solution was irradiated for 90 seconds under a medium pressure mercury arc to yield a solid copolymer. A formulation was prepared consisting of 0.1 gram of the acrylated calix 6 arene synthesized in Example 14, 1.0 gram of 2 phenylethyl methacrylate and 0.01 gram of 2,2 dimethoxy 2 phenyl acetophenone. A 2 mm thick film of this formulation in a mold was irradiated under a medium pressure mercury arc for 180 seconds. At the end of this time, the formulation had hardened to a material insoluble in common organic solvents. A similar formulation but without the acrylated calix 6 arene, when irradiated under identical conditions, yielded only readily soluble material. A mixture of 0.252 g of the product of Example 8 0.00027 mole and 10 mls dry toluene containing 50 ppm of platinum as dihydrogen hexachloroplatinate hexahydrate was heated to 80 C under nitrogen. To this was added a solution of 0.178 g 0.00108 mole triethoxysilane in 1 ml dry toluene containing an identical level of platinum during 10 minutes. After 30 minutes at 80 C there was no indication of any reaction having taken place i.e. no reduction in peak in infra red spectrum at 1630 cm which was mixed with 4.65 g of polydimethylsiloxanediol of 50,000 cps viscosity and 0.046 g of stannous octanoate catalyst. The triethoxysilyl calixarene acted as a cross linker, and in several hours a solid cured slug of clear colourless RTV silicone was produced. The vulcanized RTV silicone was insoluble in common solvents.