# METHOD OF DETERMINING THICKNESS AND COMPOSITION OF ALLOY FILM

## Claims
Verfahren zur Bestimmung der Dicke und Zusammensetzung eines Legierungsfilms auf einem Metallsubstrat, wobei der Legierungsfilm das Metall des Substrats enthält, mit den folgenden Verfahrensschritten

## Description
This invention relates to a method of measuring a layer thickness and composition of an alloy plating, and more particularly to a method of measuring the layer thickness and the composition of an alloy plating including a metal identical with a substrate metal, suitable for use in analysis of a Zn Fe group alloy plated steel plate of one or two layers. Various plated steel plates excellent in anticorrosion, workability, coating properties, weldability and the like have been developed as used for the motor vehicle body, electrical household appliances and building materials, and are widely used. In order to stabilize the quality of these plated steel plates in producing the same, it is essential to analyze the thickness deposit value and the composition contents of the plating to carry out the process control. One method for determining the structure and or composition of thin films by noting the change in the characteristic output diffraction or fluorescent spectra of X rays directed onto these films as disclosed by IBM Technical Disclosure Bulletin, Volume 22, No. 2, July 1979, page 848, New York, USA. A further method for measuring the composition of a layer is known from DE A 26 36 145. An alloy layer is irradiated by X rays and from the diffracted rays different characteristic values of the diffraction are measured. From each of these values the composition of the alloy may be evaluated. A simultaneous determination of the thickness of the layer is with these methods not possible. In EP A 0 070 974 the use of X ray fluorescence intensity and diffracted rays in the measurement of a metal coating thickness is disclosed. However the composition of the coating cannot be evaluated due to this document. As for the method of analyzing the plated steel plate, with the steel plate having a plating composed of a content other than Fe as being the substrate steel plate, such as a Zn plated steel plate and a Zn Ni alloy plated steel plate, the thickness and the composition of the plating can be comparatively easily analyzed by the method of analyzing by the fluorescent X rays, and the apparatus of this type has been put to practice. However, as for a Zn Fe group alloy plated steel plate, the outstanding characteristic feature of which has been noted recently, the analysis has been impossible by the ordinary method of fluorescent X rays because of that the intensity of the Zn fluorescent X rays is varied due to the content of Zn or Fe in the plating and the thickness of the plating and that, as for Fe, a large quantity of Fe fluorescent X rays are generated from a substrate steel plate, and these fluorescent X rays cannot be discriminated from the Fe fluorescent X rays in the plating. For this reason, as the method of analyzing the Zn Fe group one layer alloy plated steel plate, there have heretofore been proposed the following methods. The first one is a method proposed in Japanese Patent Laid Open No. 24680 1980, wherein, with a Zn plated steel plate which has been subjected to the Zn Fe alloying process, a flourescent X ray intensity of a metal other than Fe as being the substrate steel plate, i.e. that of Zn is measured by two measuring angles differing from each other, a predetermined simultaneous equations on the basis of the both measured values, and the thickness of the plating on the plated steel plate and the degree of alloying Fe content are obtained. According to this method, Zn fluorescent X ray intensities of a sufficiently thick pure Zn sample are previously measured by two measuring angles, and subsequently, a Zn fluorescent X ray intensity of a Zn alloy plated steel plate which has been subjected to an alloying process is measured by the same X ray spectroscope, whereby the analysis is made in the ratio with the pure Zn fluorescent X ray intensity obtained previously at the respective measuring angles. The fluorescent X ray quantitative method wherein the measuring angles are varied has been the basic theory of the method of analyzing the fluorescent X rays published in textbooks from old times and well known to everyone. The second one is method proposed in Japanese Patent Laid Open No. 223047 1983, wherein with a Zn Fe alloy plated steel plate, an Fe content in the plating is obtained from an Fe fluorescent X ray intensity by a first excitation ray incident angle and the fluorescent X ray measuring angle, by both of which Fe fluorescent X rays from the substrate steel plate is not substantially detected, and the thickness of the plating is obtained from an Fe fluorescent X ray intensity by a second excitation ray incident angle and a fluorescent X ray measuring angle, by both of which Fe fluorescent X rays from the substrate steel plate can be detected. However, since a plated steel plate flows at a speed as high as 100 meter min for example on a production line, the plated steel plate is bound to flutter more or less. The influence of this fluttering is received only by the steel plate, so that, according to the former method proposed in Patent Laid Open No. 24680 1980, the analyzing accuracy should necessarily be deteriorated. In general, the thickness of the plating of the alloy plated steel plate is as thin as 20 30 g m² about 3 4 micrometer . If it is intended to obtain a strength as high as a fluorescent X rays of a metal in the plating can be accurately measured by the latter method proposed in Patent Laid Open No. 223047 1983, then it is impossible to excite only the thin plated layer, and the metal as being the substrate as well as the thin plated layer are bound to be excited. In consequence, in this case, both the fluorescent X ray intensities of Fe in the plating and Fe in the substrate steel plate are measured, so that an accurate analysis cannot be made. Further, when an on line systemizing is intended, with a low incident angle measuring angle 5 adopted in the first X ray optical system, construction of such proposed apparatuses as described above have been impracticable, because of the size of an X ray tube, construction of an X ray spectroscopic system, a protective cover of an analysis meter and the like. In consequence, since both the methods which have been proposed are disadvantageous. After all, as in the past, it cannot be but that such a method of chemical analysis is to be relied on that only the plated layer is dissolved and removed by an electrolysis or a suitable acid, and the thickness of the plating is obtained from the value of removal, an Fe content in the plating is obtained through chemical analysis of the value of Fe in the solution. However, according to this chemical analysis method, it is extremely difficult to dissolve only the plated layer without dissolving the substrate steel plate. It requires a considerable high skill level and a long period of time to conduct this chemical analysis method. Moreover, this analysis is a destructive analysis to collect samples from a product and the on line systemizing cannot be attained, thus presenting such a disadvantage that the reflection of measured results to the process control is delayed to a great extent. It is very difficult to analyze even the Zn Fe group one layer alloy plated steel plate which is applied thereto with only one layer of Zn Fe alloy plating as described above, still more, with a Zn Fe group two layer alloy plated steel plate which is applied to the first layer thereof with a Zn Fe alloy plating and to the second layer thereof with a Fe plating having Fe as the chief content, the problem becomes further complicated and measurement with high accuracy becomes extremely difficult. On the other hand, as an invention analogous to the present invention, in Japanese Patent Laid Open No. 17695 1975, there has been proposed an apparatus for continuously inspecting a quality of steel plate featuring that the apparatus comprises means for causing characteristic X rays and white X rays to irradiate a continuously moving steel plate at a predetermined angle means for detecting diffracted X rays which have wavelengths satisfying a condition of Bragg and fluorescent X rays from this irradiating point and means for analyzing these detection signals to sense intensity values of respective oggregate structures, elements, etc. However, this invention is different in object and constitution from the present invention, and moreover, the detection of the thickness of plating is not conducted. The present invention has been developed to obviate the disadvantages of the prior art and has as its one object the provision of a method of measuring the thickness and the composition of an alloy plating, wherein the thickness and the composition of one layer alloy plating including a metal identical with a substrate metal can be measured simultaneously and non destructively. The present invention has as another object the provision of a method of measuring the thickness and the composition of an alloy plating, wherein the thickness and the composition of an alloy plating having two layers different in composition from each other and including a metal, identical with a substrate metal can be measured simultaneously and non destructively. These objects are solved by the features of claims 1 and 7 respectively. According to the method disclosed by claim 1 a fluorescent X ray analyzing method and an X ray diffracting method are simultaneously used. The technical gist of the invention is shown in Fig. 1. With this process, the thickness and the composition of the one layer alloy plating can be measured simultaneously and non destructively. Furthermore, according to the method disclosed by claim 7 the thickness and the compsition of an alloy plating having two layers different in composition from each other and including a metal identical with a substrate metal are measured in one cycle, i.e. simultaneously. The technical gist is shown in Fig. 2. Further, a specific form of the present invention is of such an arrangement that the characteristic X rays and the white X rays are generated from a single X ray source, such for example as an X ray tube of Cr targert, so that the measuring apparatus can be simplified in construction. Another specific form of the present invention is of such an arrangement that the characteristic X rays are generated from an X ray tube of Cr target and the white X rays are generated from an X ray tube of W target, so that strong white X rays can be generated. A further specific form of the present invention is of such an arrangement that the incident angles of the X rays are minimized in values, so that the intrusion of the X rays into the substrate metal becomes shallow, to thereby increase information from the alloy plating. Detailed description will hereunder be given of the method of the present invention by way of example of the Zn Fe group two layer alloy plated steel plate, which is applied to the first layer thereof with a Zn Fe alloy plating and to the second layer thereof with a Fe plating having Fe as the chief content. In analyzing the above described two layer alloy plated steel plate, in the first place, it is thought of a method of varying the measuring angles, which is well known. This method is disadvantageous in that, as described above, with the Zn Fe alloy plated steel plate, only the intensities of Zn fluorescent X rays are compared with pure Zn. Then, to obviate this disadvantage, study has been made on a method of using Fe fluorescent X rays. This is because the fluttering of the alloy plated steel plate on the production line affects the Fe fluorescent X rays as well as the Zn fluorescent X rays, whereby, when the analysis is made by use of the both X rays, the adverse influence can be eliminated. Now, as shown in Fig. 3, when X ray are caused to fall into the Zn Fe group two layer alloy plated steel plate 10 at an incident angle of ψ, the whole intensities of fluorescent X rays of an elemet to be measured, which is measured by a measuring angle ψ₁ can be theoretically represented by the following equation. These X₁, X₂ and X₃ are represented by the following equations when the thickness of the second layer plating deposit value is T₁, the thickness of the first layer plating deposit value is T₂, the content of the element to be measured in the second layer is W₁, the content of the element to be measured in the first layer is W₂ and the content of the element to be measured in the substrate steel plate is W₃. where ki is a constant, and µ When a mass absorption coefficient of the element to be measured is µ p and a mass absorption coefficient of the coexistent element is µ p , µ Since the incident angle ψ is made constant for the practical use, the terms of the coefficient ki sin ψ of the right members of the above mentioned equations 1 3 become constant, too. In consequence, as shown in Fig. 4, the white X rays generated from an X ray tube 12 irradiate a Zn Fe group two layer alloy plated steel plate 10 at an incident angle ψ, and, if an intensity of fluorescent X rays generated is simultaneously measured by detectors 18₁ and 18₂ for Zn fluorescent X rays and detectors 20₁ and 20₂ for Fe fluorescent X rays through spectroscopic crystals 14₁ and 14₂ for Zn fluorescent X rays and spectroscopic crystals 16₁ and 16₂ for Fe fluorescent X rays, which are provided in two measuring angles ψ₁ and ψ₂, then, simultaneous equations on Zn are established by the two measuring angles ψ₁ and ψ₂ and also simultaneous equations on Fe are established by the two measuring angles ψ₁ and ψ₂. Therefore, a converging thickness Ti and a content Wi of an element to be measured, the errors of which are minimized, are obtained from the simultaneous equations of two types. However, only two unknown terms can be solved from the above information. In consequence, according to the above described method, the analysis can be made only on one layer after another. Then, firstly, after the plating of the first layer, the intensity of the flourescent X rays is measured, the thickness T₂ and the content W₂ of the element to be measured of the first layer plating are obtained from the combination of the aforesaid theoretical equations, subsequently, after the plating of the second layer, also the intensity of the fluorescent X rays is measured, and analyzed values of the thickness T₂ and the content W₂ of the first layer are inserted to obtain the thickness T₁ and the content W₁ of the element to be measured of the second layer plating. However, according to the above described method, in the case of on line systemizing, two analysis devices are required, and moreover, after the plating of the first layer, the measurement is conducted in the wet state, whereby the intensities of fluorescent X rays of Zn and Fe are varied due to a difference in absorption value of the incident X rays and the fluorescent X rays by the value of moisture on the plated steel plate, a variation in scattering value of Compton electrons so on, so that accurate analysis is difficult to be made. It should be natural that lowered analyzed values of the first layer lead to deteriorated analyzed values of the second layer. In general, in the case of the Zn Fe group two layer alloy plated steel plate which is applied to the first layer thereof with a Zn Fe alloy plating and to the second layer thereof with a Fe plating having Fe as the chief content, the analysis is needed for three values, i.e. the thickness T₂ and the composition content W₂ of the first layer and the thickness T₁ of the second layer. In consequence, when one of these is analyzed by some method, other values can be obtained by solving the above mentioned simultaneous equations. Then, the inventor of this invention has thought of simultaneously using the X ray diffraction method. More specifically, in respective phases formed by the Zn Fe intermetallic compound, the X rays diffraction angle 2ϑ is varied as commensurate to the content of Fe or Zn respectively. Fig. 5 shows an example of the variation. In consequence, if the relationship between the X ray diffraction angle 2ϑ and the Fe content as shown in Fig. 5 on an arbitrary lattice plane of a phase crystal formed in the Zn Fe alloy plated layer the first layer , then the Fe content in the first layer or Zn content 100 Fe content can be obtained by measuring the X ray diffraction angle 2ϑ from the alloy plating layer. At this time, even if the thickness T₁ of the second layer is varied, only the intensity of the diffracted X ray is changed, but the diffraction angle 2ϑ is not changed. Furthermore, even if the second layer is formed of a Fe Zn alloy plating different in composition from the first layer, this fact leads to a difference in the X ray diffraction angle 2ϑ due to the difference in crystalline structure. In consequence, if the X ray diffraction angles 2ϑ of the both layers are known, the respective compositions Fe content of the first and the second layers can be analyzed. The present invention has been invented on the basis of he knowledge described above. Detailed description will hereunder be given of the embodiment of the present invention with reference to the drawings. In the first embodiment of the present invention, the present invention is applied to the measurement of the thickness and the composition of the alloy plating of the Zn Fe one layer alloy plated steel plate, in which Zn Fe alloy plating is applied to the steel plate. The embodiment of the measuring apparatus is constructed as shown in Fig. 6. In this first embodiment, a Zn Fe one layer alloy plated steel plate 112 which has been plated in a plating both 110 is being conveyed in a direction indicated by an arrow A. A powerful X ray tube 114 for generating characteristic X rays having a suitable wavelength, such as Cr target is provided at a proper position on a horizontal conveying section or a vertical conveying section for the Zn Fe one layer alloy plated steel plate 112, and the X rays emitted from the X ray tube 114 are made to fall onto the Zn Fe one layer alloy plated steel plate 112 at an incident angle ψ through a solar slit 116. Then, the X rays are diffracted through the following formula of Bragg by respective crystal lattice planes of the phases of the Zn Fe intermetallic compound formed in the alloy plating layer of the Zn Fe alloy plated steel plate 112. At this time, in the crystal of the Zn Fe intermetallic compound, the lattice constant varies due to the content of Fe or Zn , whereby the X ray diffraction angle 2ϑ is deviated. More specifically, since the X ray diffraction angle 2ϑ is varied due to the content of the Fe or Zn , the relationship between the content of Fe or Zn and the X ray diffraction angle 2ϑ is obtained on an arbitrary crystal lattice plane, as shown in an example in Fig. 5, by a solar slit 117, a goniometer 118, a diffracted X ray detector 120 and a counter circuit 122, and, when the X ray diffraction angle 2ϑ is measured by the same crystal lattice plane from the layer of the alloy plating, the Fe content in the alloy plating or the Zn content 100 Fe content in the alloy plating of the Zn Fe one layer alloy plating steel plate 112 can be obtained. On the other hand, since the X ray tube 114 generating the characteristic X ray normally generates the white X rays as well as shown in Fig. 7, the white X rays are effectively utilized in this first embodiment. More specifically, the white X rays excite a metal contained in the Zn Fe one layer alloy plated steel plate 112, and generate the fluorescent X rays having a wavelength commensurate to the metal, so that the analysis is made by use of the Zn fluorescent X rays, then. More specifically, from the fluorescent X rays of the metal contained in Zn Fe one layer alloy plated steel plate 112, which metal is excited by the white X rays, only the Zn fluorescent X rays is spectroscopically divided by a spectroscopic crystal 126 through a solar slit 124, and the intensity of the Zn fluorescent X rays is measured by a fluorescent X ray detector 130 and a counter circuit 132 through a solar slit 128. Since the intensity of the Zn fluorescent X rays, which is detected by this fluorescent X ray detector 130 varies due to the Zn or Fe content and the thickness of the Zn Fe one layer alloy plating as described above, the analysis cannot be made by a normal method. However, as described above, the Zn content in the alloy plating can be analyzed by the X ray diffraction method, so that the thickness of plating can be obtained from the Zn fluorescent X ray intensity. Fig. 8 shows an example of studying the relationship between the Zn fluorescent X ray intensity and the thickness of plating plating deposit value . It is apparent that, if the Fe content is found, then the thickness of plating can be easily known from the Zn fluorescent X ray intensity. At this time, the thickness of plating may be obtained in such a manner that an influence quantity of Fe to the Zn fluorescent X ray intensity is previously obtained and is corrected by the Fe content. Additionally, it would be effective the incident angle ψ of the X rays would be minimized in consideration of the influence of fluttering and the X ray diffraction angle 2ϑ of the measuring lattice plane, because the intrusion of the X rays into the substrate steel plate becomes shallow, and consequently, information from the alloyed plating is increased. A series of X rays diffraction intensities obtained by scanning for detecting the diffraction angle 2ϑ of an arbitrary crystal lattice plane according to the above described X ray diffraction method and the aforesaid fluorescent X ray intensity are simultaneously measured and inputted to a computer 134, respectively. In this computer 134, various calculations are performed and the Fe content and the thickness of plating in the alloy plating are obtained. The results are displayed in an indicator 136 on the line of the spot and inputted to a process computer 138 simultaneously, whereby plating conditions of the plating both 110 and the like are controlled on the basis of the analyzed values. In this first embodiment, both the characteristic X rays and the white X rays are generated from the single X ray tube 114, so that the measuring apparatus is simplified in construction. Additionally, the method of generating the characteristic X rays and the white X rays need not necessarily be limited to this, and two X ray tubes including an X ray tube of Cr target for example, for generating the characteristic X rays, and an X ray tube of W target for example, for generating white X rays high in intensity, may be used or other X ray sources may be utilized. In the first embodiment, the present invention has been applied to the measurement of the thickness and the composition of alloy plating of the Zn Fe one layer alloy plated steel plate, however, the scope of application of the present invention need not necessarily be limited to this, and it is apparent that the present invention may be applied to all of the measurements of the thickness and the composition of one layer alloy plating including a metal identical with the substrate metal. Detailed description will hereunder be given of one embodiment of the apparatus for measuring the thickness and the composition of plating of the Zn Fe group two layer alloy plated steel plate, which is the second embodiment of the present invention. This second embodiment is constructed as shown in Fig. 9, wherein a Zn Fe two layer alloy plated steel plate 210, which has been applied thereto with Zn Fe alloy plating in a first plating both 222 and also applied thereto with Fe plating having Fe as a main content in a second plating both 224, is being conveyed in a direction indicated by an arrow A. A powerful X ray tube 212 for generating characteristic X rays having a suitable wavelenght, such as Cr target is provided at a proper position on a horizontal conveying section or a vertical conveying section for the Zn Fe group two layer alloy plated steel plate 210, and X rays emitted from the X ray tube 212 are made to fall onto the Zn Fe group two layer alloy plated steel plate 210 at an incident angle ψ. Then, the X rays are diffracted through the formula of Bragg shown in 7 above described by respective lattice planes of the phases crystal of the Zn Fe intermetallic compound formed in the first layer of the Zn Fe group two layer alloy plated steel plate 210. In consequence, when the X ray diffraction angle 2ϑ is measured by an X ray diffraction device 226 including a goniometer 226A, the composition of the first layer, i.e. the Zn Fe alloy plated layer can be analyzed from the relationship shown in Fig. 5. On the other hand, the white X rays are also generated from the X ray tube 212 as shown in Fig. 7, whereby, the white X rays excite Zn and Fe in the Zn Fe group two layer alloy plated steel plate 210 to generate fluorescent X rays. The intensity of the generated fluorescent X rays is simultaneously measured by use of spectroscopes having two measuring angles ψ₁ and ψ₂, which are different from each other for both Zn and Fe in a fluorescent X ray analysis device 228 having the basic construction as shown in Fig. 4. Also in this second embodiment, it would be effective the incident angle ψ of the X rays would be minimized in consideration of the influence of the fluttering and the X ray diffraction angle 2ϑ of the measuring lattice plane, because the intrusion of the X rays into the substrate steel plate becomes shallow, and consequently, information from the alloy plating is increased. Values measured by the X ray diffraction device 226 and the fluorescent X ray analysis device 228 are inputted to a computer 230, where the composition of the first layer is analyzed firstly, the above described simultaneous equations are solved by use of the analyzed values, and the thicknesses T₁ and T₂ of the first and the second layers are obtained. The results are displayed in an indicator 232 on the line of the spot and inputted to a process computer 234 simultaneously, and plating conditions of the plating baths 222 and 224 and the like are controlled on the basis of the analyzed values. In this second embodiment also, the cahracteristic X rays and the white X rays are generated from the single X ray tube 212, so that the measuring apparatus is simplified in construction. Additionally, the method of generating the characterisric X rays and the white X rays need not necessarily be limited to this, and two X ray tubes including an X ray tube of Cr target for example, for generating the characteristic X rays, and an X ray tube of W target for example, for generating white X rays high in intensity, may be used or other X ray sources may be utilized. In the second embodiment as described above, the present invention has been applied to the measurement of the thickness and the compositions of alloy plating of the Zn Fe group two layer alloy plated steel plate, however, the scope of application of the present invention need not necessarily be limited to this, and it is apparent that the present invention may be applied to the measurement of all of the thickness and the compositions of plating having two layers different in composition from each other and including a metal identical with the substrate metal. As has been described hereinabove, according to the present invention, it becomes possible to simultaneously and non destructively measure the thickness and the composition of the one layer alloy plating including a metal identical with the substrate metal, of the Zn Fe alloy plated steel metal or the like, which has heretofore been very difficult to measure. In consequence, it becomes possible to measure on line the thickness and the compistion of the one layer alloy plating and immediately feedback analyzed results to the line, thus resulting an outstanding contribution to the stable operations and improved quality of the Zn Fe one layer alloy plated steel plate and the like. Furthermore, according to the present invention, it becomes possible to simultaneously and non destructively measure the thickenss and the compositions of respective layers of the alloy plating having two layers different in composition from each other and including a metal identical with the substrate metal, of the Zn Fe group two layer alloy plated steel plate, which has heretofore been very difficult to measure. In consequence, it becomes possible to conduct the analysis of the thickness and the compositions of the respective layers by a single apparatus and achieve the on line systemizing. Hence, the analyzed results can be immediately fed back to the line and an outstanding constribution can be made to the stable operations and improved quality of the Zn Fe group two layer alloy plated steel plate and the like.