# ELECTRON BEAM IRRADIATION STERILIZATION PROCESS

## Claims
Verfahren zur Sterilisation des Materials einer ein Produkt enthaltenen Verpackung mit Hilfe der Strahlung eines Elektronenstrahls, wobei das Produkt und das umgebende Medium gegen diese Strahlung sowie gegen eine Strahlung durch das Produkt oder Streustrahlung geschützt sind, wobei eine energetische Elektronenstrahlstrahlung im wesentlichen eines einzigen Energiespektrums im Bereich größer als 100 kV, jedoch kleiner als 300 kV auf die äußere Fläche des Materials der Verpackung gerichtet wird und mit einer vorgegebenen, angewandten Elektronenstrahlspannung innerhalb eines Bereichs der Tiefe Dosis Charakteristik gearbeitet wird, bei dem an der Innenfläche des Verpackungsmaterials bei vollständiger Durchdringung dieses Materials durch den Elektronenstrahl eine Sterilisation erreicht wird, bei dem jedoch eine direkte Strahlung oder eine indirekte Streustrahlung das Medium sowie das Produkt nicht durchdringen.

## Description
The present invention relates to electron beam irradiation processes for sterilization of materials and the like, being more particularly concerned with the selective sterilization of package wraps or coverings or lids or seals without penetration into interior media or products within the covering. All of the standard techniques for the sterilization of materials used in the food packaging, surgical and medical products, pharmaceuticals and parenterals industries, are selected for their ability to penetrate through bulk material. High temperate autoclaves, for example, as widely used in the sterile or aseptic food packaging industry or medical products field, are applied in a manner such that a time at temperature can be realized in the most difficult to heat region of the product, such that no microorganisms, such as health prejudicing pathogens, can survive the bulk treatment, in a two or three piece tin can, for example . Similarly, gases such as ethylene oxide ETO or hydrogen peroxide H₂O₂ are applied to products in a manner such that the exposure time is adequate to ensure permeation of the product by the gas such that the deepest or most occluded region in the product is exposed to the sterilizing vapor for an adequate period of time to accomplish destruction of the pathogens and other microorganisms of concern. Where ionizing radiation such as gamma rays, x rays such as those generated in the form of Bremsstrahlung from an electron accelerator or energetic electrons themselves are used for bulk sterilization, the photon or electron energy is chosen so that the sterilization energy is transmitted to the deepest part of the product measured in gm m² or equivalent units of product depth so that adequate energy is absorbed at these depths to eliminate the pathogens of concern. As an example, for gamma radiation, the absorption of energy in the product is predicted by the well known experimental relation I I The user of these ionizing radiation, gas or thermal energy sources must then calculate requisite exposure time for the product to the sterilizing technique being applied in order to provide the sterility assurance level, SAL required by the product. Techniques for the determination of these SAL s for ionizing radiation have been available in the literature for some time and for medical products referred to as the AAMI Association for the Advancement of Medical Instrumentation guidelines for application of the process. Basic sterilization requirements for medical products and medicaments are specified in the U.S. Pharmacopaiae. There are a number of types of products, however, where it is decidedly not desirable to have the product subjected to the sterilizing agent. These may fall into a variety of categories, among which are While we have previously developed surface and limited penetration electron beam sterilization processes, as in U.S. Letters Patent 3,780,308, these were concerned with the sterilizing of an exposed surface only and lacked control of opposite surface sterilization and further refined dose controls which are required for the above special applications. The process underlying the present invention, on the other hand, for these special and like applications utilizes the efficient lethality of energetic electrons for the sterilization application with a novel controlled depth of application and sterilization effect at desired depths, while minimizing the energy available for the production of x rays which may deleteriously affect products at considerable depth. An object of the present invention, accordingly, is to provide a novel electron beam irradiation process that is particularly adapted for sterilizing wrappings or other product packaging or coverings with controlled depth effect which protect the interior medium and product from direct electron beam penetration and indirect by product X ray or other radiation generation. According to the invention there is provided a process for the electron beam irradiation sterilization of the material of a product containing package while protecting the product and surrounding medium from such irradiation and by product irradiation thereof, comprising directing energetic electron beam radiation of substantially single energy spectral quality within a range greater than 100 kilovolts but less than 300 kilovolts upon the outer surface of the material of the package, and operating at a region on the depth dose characteristic corresponding to a predetermined applied electron beam voltage within said range at which sterilisation is effected at the inner surface of the package material with full electron beam penetration of said material but at which direct radiation and indirect by product radiation produced thereby does not penetrate said medium and product. The invention will now be described by way of example with reference to the accompanying drawings wherein For practical electron beam sterilizers, the product treatment must be conducted under ambient pressure, so that the accelerated electrons must traverse an electron permeable window which can maintain a good vacuum in the sterilizer accelerator tube. Such windows or foils introduce a scattered distribution in the emergent electrons which where the scatter angle ϑ varies inversely with energy, directly with final thickness and atomic number, and the distribution generally possesses a gaussian shape. Of course, this process continues in air by multiple scattering shown schematically in Fig. 1 a . The absorption of the air window scattered electrons in the target takes place again by multiple scattering with an energy absorption profile of the general characteristic shown in curve A of Fig. 1 b . If the mean scatter angle ϑ is excessive, or the energy variation in the beam is high due to voltage ripple, the absorption profile will degrade to a characteristic, more like curve B of Fig. 1 b . Such absorption curves are characterized by an end point range D Electron beam machinery designed for substantially single energy good quality spectral performance has been described, for example, in U.S. Letters Patent 3,780,308 and 3,702,412 of common assignee herewith, and which depend upon thin, supported and cooled window geometries as of the type described in U.S. Letters Patent 3,440,466, for example. A schematic of such a sterilizer is shown in Fig. 2 in which electrons from source F in vacuum chamber V emerge from grid G and are accelerated across the vacuum gap to window foil T supported on cooled frame S of high transparency. Electron beam B in the vacuum tube generates x rays bremsstrahlung in T and S as it passes out into air as scattered beam B . As the sterilizing flux from B stops in product P expanded in Fig. 2a it generates further x rays X₂ while those electrons which stop in water cooled collector D generate further x rays X₃. The sterilizer is selfshielded via lead sheath L which mates with product handling tunnel A AA at joints J so that it can be readily adapted to in line use. It has been found preferable to restrict the generated primary electron energy variations to less than about 2 through the window T of scattering half angles less than about 30 . In order to optimize the surface dose in product P to be sterilized, the electron beam energy must be matched to the penetration required to reach P which may require penetration of an overwrap covering . In order to minimize the penetrating x ray delivered dose, the sterilizer must be designed to minimize x ray sources X₁ and X₃ and must be operated so as to minimize X₂. Consider, as an illustration, the use of the process of the invention for the sterilization of a double wrapped surgical suture, known to be quite sensitive to repetitive treatments by ionizing radiation or heat, first involved the determination of the voltage appropriate for the product outer dose ratios required for multiple re sterilization. The product packaging construction was as shown in Fig. 3. The innerwrap foil top was made up of a functional coating, a polyester film laminated to aluminum foil and a vinyl inner coating. The total thickness of this 5 layer top covering was 135 g m². The box or inner container to which it was sealed was of similar construction and 154 g m² thick. The top member of the product over wrap was made up of 11 gm m² of polypropylene, 1 g m² of adhesive and 34 g m² of Surlyn for a total thickness of 47 g m² of Kraft paper, 16 g m² of pp, 21 g m² of foil and 1 g m² of coating. The purpose of the application was to demonstrate the ability to deliver a 2.5 megarad dose to the outer surface of the inner package while fully sterilizing the overwrap covering, and with no penetration of the energy to the product contained in the inner container or box . Fig. 4 shows the experimental depth dose curves recorded for this type of electron sterilizer at increasing operating voltages, while the thicknesses of the four different package members are shown in the figure. The results for bilateral treatment are plotted in Fig. 5 and recorded in Table 1, below, as measured with dyed nylon dosimetry of the type manufactured by Far West Technology of Goleta, CA FW 60 and calibrated at the National Bureau of Standards, Washington, DC. As shown in the table, no measurable leakage penetration to the inner product occurred until voltages of 160 kV were used. This includes both direct electron and x ray delivered dose, as the dosimeters have a uniformly linear response to both forms of ionizing radiation. A minimum dose of 2.5 megarads on the outer surface of the inner package was obtained with no penetration to the product or medium surrounding the same. For this construction one could choose a bilateral treatment at, say, 150 kV and deliver overwrap inner surface dose ratios of 0.74 and 0.52 to the top and bottom, respectively. For example, if a minimum dose of 2.5 megarads was desired on the inner box surface, the overwrap surface dose would be 3.38 and 4.81 megarads respectively. On the other hand, an elevation of the operating voltage on the bottom sterilizer could be used to reduce the overwrap surface dose, if desired. Since these doses 3 5 megarads are well below those required to show any type of physical property degradation in film foil paper packaging construction of the type commonly used in sterile product packaging, a common operating voltage for bilateral sterilizers of this type would be used as a further simplification of sterilizer design and control. A second example of the application of this invention involves a packaged food product in which it was desired to maintain the dose received by the product consumable to a level well below the 1000 rads specified in the U.S. Code of Federal Regulations, Title 21, as the maximum radiation dose which may be delivered to parenterals in the normal course of packaging inspection . This is to be achieved while a dose of 3.5 megarads capable of achieving a 10 ⁷ lethality level with, say, a microorganism demonstrating a D₁₀ level of 0.5 megarads is delivered over the outer surface of the capped bottle in which the product is packaged. Since the thinnest part of this particular package construction was the 250 micron aluminum cap over the glass bottle mouth, comparative dosimetry was performed about this region. The geometry is shown in Fig. 6 in which the puncturable cap 1 of thickness 250 microns is to be sterilized at 3.5 megarads on the bottle while product 3 is separated from the cap 1 plane by a headspace of 2 cm thickness. In order to determine experimentally the relative radiation levels 6 and 7 respectively, the following dosimetry was used. At location 4, packaged calibrated thin film dosimeters were used. At locations 5 7 LiF thermoluminescent dosimeters TLD s were used which possess excellent sensitivity and accuracy of measurement in the .001 100 rem region of interest in this study. In this application the 5 7 LiF thermoluminescent dosimeters TLD s were used to monitor photon x ray irradiation alone, as the primary sterilizing electrons were unable to penetrate the aluminum cap or the bottle, so that the only ionizing radiation of concern in the interior of the package is that Bremsstrahlung generated by the primary beam as it stops in the container or cap. This process was therefore a demonstration of the ability to achieve high outer surface dose values with electrons while minimizing the interior dose delivered due to the x rays which are concomitant with the electron stopping process. Since the photon production is known to vary as V².⁹ and roughly as Z² where Z is the atomic number of the stopping material , the process is set up to maintain V minimum, depending upon the geometry of the product. For the food product of concern here, it was shown that with 3.5 megarads delivered to the cap surface by the electron sterilizer, the upper headspace dose was 42 5 rads, while the lower headspace dose under the same conditions was 32 6 rads, all recorded for an operating voltage of 200 kilovolts. These results illustrate the ability of the process to maintain a 3.5 x 10⁶ 32 dose ratio 10⁵ 1 across the 250 micron aluminum cap used in this product. Even higher ratios can be realized with lower operating voltages although the 32 rad dose measured at the upper surface of the product was already a factor of 30 under the maximum allowed dose of 1000 rads. Since the x ray generation in and transmission of the SiO₂ glass wall of the bottle is considerably below that of the aluminum cap, it is clear that a continuous sterilizer in which the capped bottles move through the sterilizer zone electron beam will provide dose ratios of 10⁵ or more, if desired, permitting the cap surface product dose ratios well above the 3.5 x 10⁶ 10³ or 3.5.10³ demanded for this application. A third example of the beneficial use of the invention involves the surface of a glass syringe of the type employed for the packaging and administration of pharmaceuticals. The results described here were conducted with a Becton Dickinson type SCF pre filled syringe delivery system with a capacity of 2.25 ml. The wall thickness of this type of glass syringe is 1 mm so that this wall covering, in which the radiation sensitive or heat sensitive pharmaceutical is confined, is separated from the surface to be sterilized by some 2300 g m² of material SiO₂ . As in the prior example, measurements were made to determine the actual ionizing radiation dose delivered to the inner volume of the syringe where the pharmaceutical or otherwise labile liquid would normally be located, when the syringe was sterilized with energetic electrons under otherwise normal conditions. For the prepackaged geometry of interest here, the syringe itself was contained in a paper polyethylene package with thicknesses of 200 µ 75 g m² and 75 µ 75 g m² respectively. Thin film dosimeters were placed on the surface of the syringe barrel during the irradiations in order to determine the electron delivered dose to the product surface. Lithium fluoride LiF thermoluminescent dosimeters provided and read out by R.S. Landauer Jr. Co., placed in the interior of the glass barrel of the syringe in order to give a precise measurement of the x ray delivered dose. Irradiations were then performed at electron sterilizer voltages of 140, 160 and 180 kilovolts in order to study the role of the beam energy and its effect on the ratio of surface dose to the x ray delivered dose deep in the product. In these measurements, various fractions of the electrons were stopping in the hydrocarbon package or in the silicon dioxide of the glass barrel covering depending upon their energies depth of penetration . The values shown in Table 2 are based upon experimentally determined values. Data are also shown for a geometry in which a thick tantalum plate was used to provide back surface dose enhancement of the electron delivered dose to the product. The results show that for the 1 mm thick glass barrels characteristic of medical syringes, electron x ray dose ratios of 10⁵ 1 are easily achieved using the technique of the present invention. That is to say, for a surface dose of 2.5 megarads delivered to the outer surface of the device, the x ray dose delivered to the product contained in the device is 10 rads or less. It can be seen from the data of Table 2 that 140 kV was somewhat below the optimum treatment point as the electron energy was inadequate to give full penetration of the 75 g m² outer wrap so that one could deliver a dose to the surface of the syringe comparable to the surface dose delivered to the outerwrap. On the other hand, 180 kV began to approach an excess energy where there was overpenetration of the outerwrap so that an excessive amount of electron energy was delivered to the syringe glass wall leading to increased bremsstrahlung generation and hence a decrease in the electron outer x ray inner dose ratio . This effect can be seen in a comparison of the ratios in the 160 and 180 kilovolt columns of the table. The inadequate energy effect is also pronounced in the second and third cases where one sees a doubling of the ratio in going from 140 to 160 kilovolts due to the increasing ability of the sterilizing beam to penetrate the overwrap. Fig. 7 shows this effect schematically using the experimentally determined depth dose profiles for electrons delivered from the sterilizer at 140, 160 and 180 kilovolts under the same conditions as those used in the experiment reviewed in Table 1. The 75 g m² outerwrap covering is shown on the penetration curve and one sees that as the electron energy increases, increasing amounts of electron energy are delivered to the syringe wall 60 at 140 kV, 90 at 160kV and 100 at 180kV. Since these electrons are the primary source of x rays delivered to the syringe inner volume, a lesser flux of x rays arises from electron generated bremsstrahlung in the window and window frame assembly of the sterilizer, or from electrons stopped in the tray itself , the electron x ray dose ratio decreases with increasing energy as soon as full overwrap penetration is possible a result which is indeed shown from the experiment. The process taught herein therefore requires a knowledge of the effective penetration characteristics of the sterilizing electron flux so that a suitable operating point is chosen such that adequate inner surface over wrap product interface illumination is achieved to accomplish sterilization, while minimizing the electron energy deposited in the product which serves as the primary source of bremsstrahlung or penetrating x rays which can affect its physical properties. The invention is also useful in disinfestation or pasteurization processes utilizing the same techniques, and, further, for curing or polymerization processes which utilize the same art as, for example, the surface cross linking of a thick polyolefinic material, or the surface grafting of material to a radiation or thermolabile substrate. Disinfestation or pasteurization of foodstuffs can also be performed where the process is used to treat only the surface or pericarp of a product without penetration to the consumed inner portion endocarp of the product. Further modifications will also occur to those skilled in this art, such being considered to fall within the spirit and scope of the invention as defined in the appended claims.