# ELECTROMAGNETIC ACTUATOR AND MAGNETIC DISK FILE EMPLOYING SAME

## Abstract
A linear disk actuator is disclosed incorporating a magnetic circuit for reducing stray magnetic fields in the region of the disks and recording heads of a magnetic recording disk system. The moving part of the actuator is provided with a plurality of coils mounted thereon, at least two of which are energised simultaneously and in magnetically opposing relationship to reduce the amplitude of the stray magnetic fields. Movement of the actuator is achieved by both energised coils interacting with a set of alternating poles positioned on the stationary part of the actuator.

## Claims
1. An electromagnetic actuator comprising a magnetic circuit including a plurality of magnetic poles of alternating polarity 18A 18B 76 along a flux gap 20A 20B 74 in the circuit a plurality of coils 28A 28B 28C 28D 84A 84B disposed in the flux gap energising means capable of passing current through the coils to produce a reaction force between an energised coil and the magnetic poles, and a movable member 24A 24B 24C 24D 80 connected to be acted on by said reaction force the actuator being characterised in that the energising means is arranged to pass said current concurrently through at least two adjacent coils wound and positioned such that the resulting respective reaction forces are additive but the resulting magnetic fields of said at least two coils are opposed.

## Description
This invention relates to electromagnetic actuators and to magnetic disk files employing such actuators. The design of any linear disk actuator is constrained by a requirement that the stray magnetic fields induced by the actuator coil in the region of the recording disks and recording heads be low in amplitude. The presence of high amplitude fields in this region can cause erasure of information stored on the disks. Somewhat lower amplitude fields can also be a problem in that they can be concentrated by the recording heads to still cause disk erasure. At even lower amplitudes, stray magnetic fields can still cause write asymmetry and peak shift, both of which lead to an increased error rate in the disk file. Although the precise amplitude of stray field that will cause problems for a given system depends on the magnetic properties of the recording media, head design, recording density and code being used, it can be said that generally fields of 50 gauss or more are intolerable, while fields as low as 10 gauss are still cause for concern. A field of 5 gauss is generally tolerable, while a field of one gauss approximately the magnitude of the earth s magnetic field is quite good. Another problem caused by stray magnetic fields in disk systems is the coupling of excessive cross talk into the front end of a system s read pre amplifier by the AC component of the stray magnetic flux induced by the energised coil of an actuator. Although the degree to which this is a problem is partially a function of lead routing and packaging, it is nevertheless, also a function of the amplitude of the flux induced by the actuator coil. One method of reducing the effect of stray magnetic fields is to design actuators with the coil assembly of the actuator positioned further away from the magnetic heads and disks. Conventional recording systems using a comb structure to support the recording heads readily lend themselves to this approach because their actuator coil is already positioned away from the recording disks and heads. Although the amplitude of the stray magnetic fields in the region of the disks and recording heads can be reduced using this design approach, the cost of this approach is large moving masses an undesirable by product and cantilevered structures with attendant resonance and stiffness concerns. Because of these factors, newer, high performance disk files tend to utilise modular, independent actuators positioned between disk surfaces for which alternative techniques have been employed to reduce the magnetic field from the actuator. One approach that has been pursued in planar actuators has been the use of a small air gap between two core plates constructed from large amounts of iron to contain the flux developed by the energised coil. Although this approach reduces stray flux, further reductions in stray flux are desirable. US A 4,315,295 issued to Frandsen and entitled Linear Actuator With Staggered Flat Coils discloses a disk drive apparatus which includes an array of flat coil actuators using a plurality of overlapped flat coil sets interacting with a plurality of surrounding magnets of alternating polarity for stepping such actuators into position. In operation, only one of the overlapped coil sets is energised at any one time. US A 4,396,966 issued to Scranton et al and entitled Low Mass Actuator System For Magnetic Recording Disks With Half Strength End Poles discloses a linear actuator comprised of a yoke including a number of permanent magnets of alternating polarity arranged in an array side by side, and a shuttling armature comprised of a pair of flat coils. At each end of the array of magnets there is provided a half strength magnet for closing the magnetic circuit so as to reduce flux which emanates towards the disk and recording heads of the disk recording system. Thus, the prior art reveals various attempts at reducing the static magnetic field in the region of the recording disk and recording head of a magnetic disk system generated by permanent magnets in the actuators for moving the heads, but there is also a need to reduce the dynamic magnetic field in this region generated by the actuator coils. Accordingly this invention provides an electromagnetic actuator comprising,a magnetic circuit including a plurality of magnetic poles of alternating polarity along a flux gap in the circuit, a plurality of coils disposed in the flux gap, energising means capable of passing current through the coils to produce a reaction force between an energised coil and the magnetic poles, and a movable member connected to be acted on by said reaction force, the actuator being characterised in that the energising means is arranged to pass said current concurrently through at least two adjacent coils wound and positioned such that the resulting respective reaction forces are additive but the resulting magnetic fields of said at least two coils are opposed. Preferably, the magnetic poles are attached to a yoke of magnetically permeable material and the coils are attached to the movable member, the coils being positioned substantially within the yoke. In one preferred embodiment of the invention, the yoke includes a central core projection, the coils are hollow and generally surround the central core projection, the actuator is linear and the movable member is mounted for movement on the central core projection. In an alternatively preferred embodiment of the invention, the actuator is linear, the movable member is substantially flat with the coils being flat and positioned on at least one surface of the movable member and the yoke includes two spaced apart members between which is contained said plurality of magnetic poles of alternating polarity and at least a portion of the movable member and plurality of coils. Preferably, the plurality of magnetic poles of alternating polarity is arranged on only one internal face of said yoke and said plurality of coils comprises a plurality of sets of coils, said energising means being arranged to energise the sets of coils successively. The requirement that two coils of a pair of coils produce opposed magnetic fields may be fulfilled either by winding one coil in an opposite sense to the other or by winding both coils in the same sense and energising them opposingly. The invention also provides a magnetic disk file including such an actuator and also including a magnetisable recording disk, means for rotating said disk, and at least one electromagnetic transducing head for recording information on or reproducing information from the disk during rotation thereof, said head being mounted on the movable member of said actuator which is operable to move said head to selected radial positions on the surface of the disk. Figure 1 shows a conventional linear actuator 10 used in a magnetic recording disk system. Figure 2 is a partial cross sectional view of the linear actuator shown in Figure 1 taken along the line 2 2 shown therein. The conventional actuator shown in Figures 1 and 2 includes a magnetic assembly which consists of a large iron yoke assembly 12, positioned adjacent to a plurality of magnetic recording disks 14 rotatably mounted on a spindle assembly 16, and a number of semi annular permanent magnets 18 mounted within a circular cavity 19 formed with yoke assembly 12. Located within cavity 19 of yoke assembly 12 is a cylindrical, translatable actuator assembly 22. This assembly includes a movable armature 24 supported by a plurality of ball bearings not shown on an iron shaft 26 extending from the centre of yoke assembly 12, and a cylindrical coil 28 consisting of a series of turns wound upon armature 24 substantially near one end thereof. Attached to the opposite end of armature 24 is a comb structure 30 having a number of fingerlike projections 32 upon which a series of magnetic recording heads 34 are mounted. Comb structure 30 allows all of the recording heads 34 to address their respective disk surfaces simultaneously. For this purpose actuator coil 28 is energised by a current which produces a magnetic field 36 that interacts with the magnetic field produced by permanent magnets 18 in air gap 20 to create a mechanical force that causes armature 24 to translate either toward or away from the stack of recording disks. As can be seen in Figure 2, the magnetic field 36 created by the energisation of coil 28 is comprised of a series of flux lines 38 that emanate outwardly from coil 28. A portion 40 of the magnetic field produced by the actuator coil strays to the region where disks 14 and recording heads 34 are situated. As previously noted, where the amplitude of this stray magnetic field is sufficiently high, information stored on disks 14 can be lost due to erasure. Figure 3 shows a conventional actuator in which the coil assembly has been modified to incorporate the present invention. As shown in Figure 3, the portion of the actuator assembly 22A within cavity 19A is slightly longer than the portion of the actuator assembly 22 within cavity 19 of the disk actuator shown in Figure 2. This is to accommodate a plurality of actuator coils 28A wound thereon. In the embodiment shown in Figure 3, a total of two armature coils is used. A first of these coils 42 is wound on armature 24A in a clockwise direction, while the second of these coils 44 is wound on armature 24A in a counterclockwise direction. By winding each of these coils in a different direction, the fields produced by their energising currents are in an opposing relationship so as to produce a net field 36A that is very low in amplitude outside yoke assembly 12A. By reducing the amplitude of the net field produced upon energisation of the actuator coils, the stray magnetic field that appears in the region of the disks 14 and the recording heads 34 can be materially reduced or rendered negligible as shown in Figure 3. Here, it can be seen that the flux density of magnetic field 36A is considerably reduced in comparison to that shown for the actuator arrangement of Figure 2. As can also be seen in Figure 3, the yoke assembly 12A of the actuator shown therein is slightly enlarged to accommodate additional permanent magnets. In the embodiment shown in Figure 3, semi annular permanent magnets 18A are arranged as a pair of alternating poles which form an almost uniform, radially symmetric magnetic field in a cylindrical gap 20A. This field interacts with the magnetic field produced by the two coils wound on armature 24A to produce the mechanical force necessary to displace shaft 24A and thereby allow recording heads 34 to address the surfaces of disks 14. Even though the currents in coils 42 and 44 are physically opposite in direction, the direction of the interacting magnetic fields produced by alternating permanent magnets 18A are also opposite in polarity, respectively, so that the forces generated thereby add to allow armature 24A to be moved. Although the embodiment shown in Figure 3 utilises a coil assembly consisting of only two coils, it should be understood that other numbers of coils can be used to practice the invention, provided at least two of such coils are energised simultaneously so that the fields produced by the two coils are opposite. An alternative embodiment of the invention in which four actuator coils are used is shown in Figure 4. As shown therein, only the first and third coils of assembly 28B have been energised. In the first of these, 50, current is flowing counterclockwise when considered from a standpoint remote from the disk spindle, 16, while in the third, 52, current is flowing opposite this direction, or clockwise. The permanent magnets 18B used in the embodiment shown in Figure 4 also include more magnets than the embodiment shown in Figure 3. Here, permanent magnets 18B are positioned adjacent one another to provide a series of alternating poles that produce a uniform, radially symmetric magnetic field in a cylindrical gap 20B between the magnets and actuator coil assembly 28B. Opposite direction of current flow in the two energised coils producing the opposing fields can be achieved by either using opposite winding directions, ie, clockwise and counterclockwise, for the two coils, or employing opposite polarity connections to the leads of the two coils where they are wound in the same direction, ie, both clockwise or both counterclockwise. For parallel connection of the coils, in the latter case, the lead in wire of one coil would be connected to the same polarity terminal of the current source used to energise the two coils as the corresponding lead out wire of the other coil, and vice versa. In the former case, the lead in wires of both coils would be connected to the same polarity terminal, while the lead out wires of both coils would be connected to the other, opposite polarity terminal. However, for series connection of the coils, in the latter case the lead in wire of one coil would be connected to one terminal of the current source, the lead out wire of this coil would be connected to the lead out wire of the second coil and the lead in wire of the second coil would be connected to the second terminal of the current source. In the former case, the lead in wire of one coil would be connected to one terminal of the current source, the lead out wire of this coil would be connected to the lead in wire of the second coil and the lead out wire of the second coil would be connected to the second terminal of the current source. Although the present invention has been described in the context of conventional linear disk actuators using cylindrical coils wound around a cylindrical movable shaft, it should be understood that its application is not limited to this design. Figures 5 and 6 show examples of alternative embodiments in which the conventional armature on which the plurality of actuator coils is wound has a cross section which is other than circular. Figure 5 shows one example of a four sided armature 24C with an actuator coil assembly 28C consisting of four coils shaped to accommodate the four sided shape of the armature. The four sided shape of armature 24C can be square, rectangular or otherwise, depending upon the needs of the particular application in which it is used. Alternatively, Figure 6 shows one example of a three sided armature 24D with an actuator coil assembly 28D again consisting of four adjacent coils, in this case shaped to accommodate the three sided shape of the armature. Here, the shape of armature 24D is generally triangular, with specific variations such as an equilateral triangle shape, isosceles triangle shape or other three sided shape again being dependent upon the needs of the particular application. Although the opposing magnetic fields produced by the simultaneously energised coils of the embodiments shown in Figures 5 and 6 include flux build up at the sharp corners of such armatures, the resulting net magnetic field produced by the two coils will still be limited in amplitude, such that the amplitude of the stray magnetic field in the region of the disks and recording heads will be negligible. It should be noted that alternative armature shapes, other than those shown in Figures 5 and 6, may be used with the present invention. It should also be noted that while the shape of the iron shaft 26 supporting the armature will generally conform to the specific shape of the armature, the shape of the coils wound on the armature need not. The planar actuator 62 shown in Figures 7 and 8, which is broadly similar to the planar actuator disclosed in previously identified US A 4,396,966, encompasses the preferred embodiment of the present invention. As can be seen in Figure 7, the planar design uses multiple independent actuators 64 cantilevered on a vertical support 66. Each of these actuators fits between two of a number of disks 14A rotatably mounted on a spindle assembly 16A to provide simultaneous accessing of one surface of each of two adjacent disks. One of these actuators 64A is shown in greater detail in Figure 8. The stationary portion of yoke assembly of actuator 64A is constructed from two iron plates 68 and 70 joined in spaced apart parallel orientation at one end by a vertically disposed plate 72 attached to vertical support 66. The spaced apart parallel orientation of plates 68 and 70 forms an air gap 74 between them. The lower of these two plates 70 supports a series of flat magnets 76 of alternating polarity. These magnets produce a high amplitude field within the air gap 74 between plates 68 and 70 which alternates in direction from magnet to magnet. Magnetic flux arrows 78 indicate flux direction in the field. The armature of the planar actuator assembly is a flat plate 80 slidably mounted within the air gap 74 between iron plates 68 and 70. Mounted on one side of this armature are a plurality of recording heads 82 which address the two surfaces corresponding to the two disks between which the actuator assembly is inserted. In accordance with the present invention, armature 80 also carries a plurality of pancake coils 84, at least two of which are energised simultaneously to produce opposing fields so that a net field of low amplitude is produced. In the embodiment shown in Figure 8, coils 84 are arranged in overlapping pairs 84A and 84B, one pair of which is energised to produce the net field of low amplitude. It should be noted, however, that coils 84 could be arranged physically in series, provided they are aligned with corresponding ones of the permanent magnets so that the two energised coils both contribute to useful force. In the embodiment shown in Figure 8, the two flat coils comprising coil pair 84A are simultaneously energised with currents flowing in physically opposite directions to produce a net field of low amplitude. Because both coils are on the moving armature 80 of the actuator, they react with the fields from the yoke magnets to contribute usefully to the production of the force and hence acceleration necessary for the recording heads to move and address the surfaces of disks 14A in acceptable periods of time. To achieve opposite current flow directions in the coils 84 shown in Figure 8, the previously described wiring techniques for conventional actuators may also be used with the flat coils of the embodiment shown in Figures 7 and 8. The only requirement is that at least two coils be energised simultaneously and that the physical direction of current flow in the two coils be opposite so that they produce opposing fields that in turn produce a net field which is negligible in amplitude.