# Prepreg compositions for the preparation of polycarbonate continuous fiber composites.

## Abstract
Prepreg compositions comprising continuous fibers and cyclic polycarbonate oligomer mixtures may be polymerized to form fiber reinforced polycarbonate articles having excel lent thermal stability, solvent resistance and other prop erties.

## Claims
What is claimed is 1. A moldable prepreg composition comprising a filler consisting essentially of continuous fibers and a polymerizaDie composition comprising a mixture of cyclic oligomers havana the formulaEMI18.1 wherein A1 is a divalent aromatic radical and n is from 2 to about 3C. . A composition according to claim 1 wherein the filler comprises carbon, glass, highly oriented polyamide or boron fibers. 3. A composition according to claim 2 wherein the oligomer mixture consists essentially of cyclic oligomers having degrees of polymerization up to about 20 and contains no more than about 10 by weight of linear oligomers. 4. A composition according to claim 3 wherein A1 has the formula II Aê Y A , wherein each of A2 and A3 is a single ring divalent aromatic radical and Y is a bridging radical in which one or two atoms separate Aê from A . 5. A composition according to claim 4 wherein the filler is woven and comprises up to about 70 by volume thereof. 6. A composition according to claim 5 wherein each of A2 and A3 is p phenylene and Y is 2,2 propylene. 7. A composition according to claim 6 wherein a major proportion of the oligomers have degrees of polymerization up to about 12. 8. A composition according to claim 7 wherein the filler consists essentially of graphite fibers. 9. A composition according to claim 7 wherein the filler consists essentially of glass fibers. 10. A composition according to claim 7 wherein the filler consists essentially of highly oriented polyamide fibers. 11. A composition according to claim 1, 2, 5 or 7 which also contains a minor effective amount of a polycarbonate formation catalyst. 12. A method according to claim 11 wherein the polycarbonate formation catalyst is a base or a Lewis acid. 13. A method according to claim 12 wherein the polycarbonate formation catalyst is lithium stearate or bisisopropoxytitanium bisacetylacetonate. 14. A fiber reinforced polycarbonate article prepared by simultaneously molding and polymerizing a composition according to claim 11 at a temperature up to about 3500C. 15. A fiber reinforced polycarbonate article prepared by simultaneously molding and polymerizing a composition according to claim 12 at a temperature up to about 3500C. 16. A fiber reinforced polycarbonate article prepared by simultaneously molding and polymerizing a composition according to claim 13 at a temperature up to about 3500C.

## Description
POLYCARBONATE CONTINUOUS FIBER COMPOSITES AND PRECURSORS Tk v OR This invention relates to continuous fiber resinous composites and compositions useful in their preparation.More particularly, it relates to composites in which the resinous material is a polycarbonate. Polycarbonates, particularly those derived from 2,2 bits 4 hydroxyphenyl propane bisphenol A , are impactresistant, moisture resistant and ductile materials in wide use as engineering resins. These properties make them apparently excellent candidates for thermoplastic continu ous fiber, advanced composite components for use in primary and secondary structures in such applications as hi gh speed vehicles, machinery and sporting goods. Thermoplastic composites have a number of advantages over the somewhat more well known thermoset composites, such as the capability of being shaped after polymerization is completed. Nevertheless, polycarbonates have not been in wide use for preparing continuous fiber composites because of the difficulty in effectively infusing the polymer into the fiber tows. Polycarbonates are commonly prepared interfa cm ally by the reaction of phosgene with a dihydroxyaromatic compound, or by transesterification of a diaryl carbonate with a dihydroxyaromatic compound. In both of these methods, the molecular weight and viscosity of the polymer obtained are so high that there is difficulty in achieving adequate wet out for effective impregnation of continuous fibers therewith. Solution impregnation methods are inconvenient because of the necessity of removing and recycling solvent, and the temperatures required for melt impregnation are so high that the polycarbonate tends to undergo chemical degradation. A principal object cf the present invention, therefore, is to provide compositions suitable for use in the production of continuous fiber polycarbonate composites. A further object is to provide compositions which are capable of effectively impregnating continuous fibers relatively low temperatures. A furter object is to produce articles comprising thermoplastic polycarbonate resins and continuous fiber fillers, salt articles having advantageous properties. Other objects Will in part be obvious and will in part appear hereinafter. In one of its aspects, the present invention includes moldable prepreg compositions comprising a filler consisting essentially of continuous fibers and a polymerizable composition comprising a mixture of cyclic oligomers having the formula I EMI2.1 wherein A1 is a divalent aromatic radical and n is.from 2 to about 30. The fillers in the prepreg compositions of this invention may comprise any of the continuous fiber materials known in the art These include carbon, glass, highly oriented polyamide and boron fibers. Carbon fibers are frecuently preferred, especially when a particularly stiff composite article is desired. The filler may be in unidirectional form, either as yarns or as random fibers1 or may be woven into fabric batts or tapes Certain filler materials are treated with a sizing coinposition cor.pati le with some other resin system, ty ca ly an epoxy system. Under these circumstances it may be advantageous te remove the sizing before contacting the filler with the oligomer mixture.Removal may be effected by treating with a suitable solvent pyrolytically by heating at a temperature up to about 4000C preferably in an inert atmosphere such as nitrogen, particularly when the filler is an oxidizable material such as carbon or by other suitable procedures. The impregnating material is a cyclic polycarbonate oligomer mixture of the type disclosed and claimed in copending, cor nonly assigned application Serial No. RD 15818 , the disclosure of which is incorporated by reference herein. The A1 radicals therein are aromatic radicals illustrated by m phenylene, p phenylene, 4,4 biphenylene and 2,2 bis 4 phenylene propane and others which correspond to the dihydroxy compounds disclosed by name or formula generic or specific in U.S. Patent 4,217,438, the disclosure of which is also incorporated by reference herein.Also included are radicals containing non hydrocarbon moieties. These may be substituents such as chloro, nitro, alkoxy and the like, and also linking radicals such as thio, sulfoxy, sulfone, ester, amide, ether and carbonyl. Most often, however, all A1 radicals are hydrocarbon radicals. The A1 radicals preferably have the formula II Aê Y A wherein each of A2 and A3 is a single ring divalent aromatic radical and Y is a bridging radical in which one or two atoms separate A2 from A3. The free valence bonds in formula II are usually in the meta or para positions of A2 and A3 in relation to Y. Such A1 values may be considered as bei derived from bisphenols of the formula HO Aê Y A OH. Frequent reference to bisphenols will be made hereinafter, but it should be understood that A1 values derived from suitable compounds other than bisphenols may be employed as appropriate. In formula If, the A2 and A3 values may be unsubstituted phenylene or substituted derivatives thereof, illustrative substituents one or more being alkyl, alkenyl e.g., crosslinkable graftable moieties such as vinyl and allyl , hO o especially chloro and or bromo , nitro, alkoxy and the like. Unsubstituted phenylene radicals are preferred. Both A2 and A are referably p phenylene, although both may be o or m phenylene or one o or m phenylene and the other p phenylene. The bridging radical, Y, is one in which one or two atoms, preferably one, separate Aê from A . It is most often a hydrocarbon radical and particularly a saturated radical such as methylene, cyclohexylmethylene, 2 2.2.1 bicycloheptylmethylene, ethylene, 2,2 propylene, 1,1 2,2 dimethylpropylene , 1,1 cyclohexylene, 1,1 cyclopentadecylene, 1,1 cyclododecylene or 2,2 adamantylene, especially a gem alkylene radical. Also included, however, are unsaturated radicals and radicals which are entirely or partially composed of atoms other than carbon and hydrogen. Examples of such radicals are 2,2 dichloroethylidene, carbonyl, thio and sulfone. For reasons of availability and particular suitability for the purposes of this invention, the preferred radical of formula II is the 2,2 bis 4 phenylene propane radical, which is derived from bisphenol A and in which Y is 2,2 propylene and A2 and A3 are each p phenylene. The cyclic oligomer mixtures consist essentially of oligomers having degrees of polymerization from 2 to about 30 and preferably to about 20, with a major proportion being up to about 12 and a still larger proportion up to about 15 Since they are mixtures, these compositions have relatively low melting points as compared to single compounds such as the corresponding cyclic trimer. The cyclic oligomer mixtures are generally liquid at temperatures above 300 C and most often at temperatures above 225 C. The Itres useful in this invention contain very low proportions of linear oligomers. In general, no more than about 10 by weight, and most often no more than about 5, of such linear oligomers are present. The mixtures also contain low percentages frequently less than 30 and preferably nc higner than about 20,ó of polymers linear or cyclic having a degree of polymerization greater than about 3C. Such polymers are frequently identified hereinafter as high polymer .These properties, coupled with the relatively low melting points and viscosities of the cyclic oligomer mixtures, contribute to their utility in the preparation of the composites of this invention. These mixtures may be prepared by a condensation reaction involving bishaloformates haing the formulaEMI5.1 wherein A is as defined hereinabove and X is chlorine or bromine. The condensation reaction typically takes place interfacially when a solution of said bishaloformate in a substantially non polar organic liquid is contacted with a tertiary amine from a specific class and an aqueous alkali metal hydroxide solution. In one method for preparing the cyclic oligomer mixture, at least one bishaloformate having formula III is contacted with at least one oleophilic aliphatic or heterocyclic tertiary amine and an aqueous alkali metal hydroxide solution having a concentration of about 0.1 10 M, said contact being effected under conditions resulting in high dilution of bishaloformate, or the equivalent thereof, in a substantially non poiar organic liquid which forms a two phase system with water and subsequently, the resulting cyclic oligomer mixture is separated from at least a portion of the high polymer and insoluble material present. While the X values in formula III may be chlorine or bromine, the bischloroformates, in which X is chlorine, are most readily a alable and their use is therefore preferred. Frequent reference to bischloroformates will be made hereinafter, but it should be understood that other bishaloformates may be substituted therefor as appropriate. The tertiary amines useful in the preparation of the cyclic polycarbonate oligomers generally comprise those which are oleophilic i.e., which are soluble in and highly active in organic medina, especially those used in the oligomer preparation method of this invention , and more particularly those which are useful for the formation of polycarbonates. Reference is made, for example, to the tertiary amines disclosed in the aforementioned U.S. Patent 4,217,438 and in U.S. Patent 4,368,315, the disclosure of which is also incorporated by reference herein. They include aliphatic amines such as triethylamine, tri npropylamine, diethyl n propylamine and tri n butylamine and highly nucleophilic heterocyclic amines such as 4 dimethyl aminopyridine which, for the purposes of this invention, contains only one active amine group . The preferred amines are those which dissolve preferentially in the organic phase of the reaction system that is, for which the organic aqueous partition coefficient is greater than 1.This is true because intimate contact between the amine and the bischloroformate is essential for the formation of the cyclic cligomer mixture. For the most part, such amines contain at least about 6 and preferably about 6 14 carbon atoms. The most useful amines are trialkylamines containing no branching on the carbon atoms in the 1 and 2 positions. Especially preferred are tri n alkylamines in which the alkyl groups contain up to about 4 carbon atoms.Triethylamine is most preferred by reason of its particular availability, low cost, and effectiveness in the preparation of products contaning low percentages of linear oligomers and high polymers. The aqueous alkali metal hydroxide slut on is most often lithium, sodium or potassium hydroxide, with sodium hydroxide being preferred because of its availabIlity and relatively low cost. The concentration of said solution is about 0.2 10 X and preferably no higher than about 3 M. The fourth essential component in the cyclic oligomer preparation method is a substantially non poiar organic liquid which forms a two phase system with water.The identity of the liquid is not critical, provided it possesses the stated properties. Illustrative liquids are aromatic hydrocarbons such as toluene and xylene substitut ed aromatic hydrocarbons such as chlorobenzene, o dichlorobenzene and nitrobenzene chlorinated aliphatic hydrocarbons such as chloroform and methylene chloride and mixtures of the foregoing with ethers such as tetrahydrofuran. To prepare the cyclic oligomer mixture according to the above described method, the reagents and components are maintained in contact under conditions wherein the bischloroformate is present in high dilution, or equivalent conditions. Actual high dilution conditions, requiring a large proportion of organic liquid, may he employed but are usually not preferred for cost and convenience reasons.Instead, simulated high dilution conditions known to those skilled in the art may be employed. For example, in one embodiment of the method the bischloroformate or a mixture thereof WIth the amine is added gradually to a mixture of the other materials. It is within the scope of this embodi ment to ncorporate the amine in the mixture to which the bischloroformate is added, or to add it gradually, either in ai.Ixture with the amine or separately. Continuous or incremental addition of the amine is frequently preferred, whereupon the cyclic oligomer mixture is obtained in relatively pure form and in high yield. Although addition of the bischloroformate neat i.e., without solvents is within the scope of this embodiment, it is frequently inconvenient because many bischloroformates are solids. Therefore, it is preferably added as a solution in a portion of the organic liquid. The proportion of organic liquid used for this purpose is not critical about 25 75 by weight, and especially about 40 60 , is preferred. The reaction temperature is generally in the range of about 0 500C. It is most often about 0 400C and preferably 20 40 C For maximization of the yield and purity of cyclic oligomers as opposed to high polymer and insoluble and or interactable by products, it is preferred to use not more than about 0.7 mole of bischloroformate per liter of organic liquid present in the reaction system, including any liquid used to dissolve said bischloroformate. Preferably, about 0.003 0.6 mole of bischloroformate is used. It should be noted that this is not a molar concentration in the organic liquid when the bischloroformate is added gradually, since it is consumed as i is added to the reaction system. the molar proportions of the reagents constitute another Important feature for yield and purity maximization. The preferred molar ratio cf amine to bischloroformate is about 0.1 1.C 1 and most often about 0.2 0.6 1. The preferred molar ratio of alkali metal hydroxide to bischloroformate is about 1.5 3 1 and most often about 2 3 1. Step II of the cyclic oligomer preparation method is the separation of the oligomer mixture from at least a portion. of the high polymer and insoluble material present.When other reagents are added to the alkali metal hydroxide and the preferred conditions and material proportions are otherwise employed, the cyclic oligomer mixture obtained as a solution in the organic liquid typically contains less than 30 O by weight and frequently less than about 20 of high polymer and insoluble material. When all of the preferred conditions are employed, the product may contain 10Xó or even less of such material. Depending on the intended use of the cyclic oligomer mixture, the separation step may then be unnecessary. Therefore, a highly preferred method for preparing the cyclic oligomer mixture comprises the single step of conducting the reaction using as the amine t least one aliphatic cr heterocyclic tertiary amine which, under the reaction conditions, dIssolves preferentially in the organic phase of the reaction system, and gradually adding bischloroformate, amine and alkali metal hydroxide simultaneously to a substantially non polar organic liquid or a mixture of said liquid with water, said liquid or mixture being maintained at a temperature in the range of about 0 500C the amount of bischloroformate used being up to about 0.7 mole for each liter of said organic liquid present in the reaction system, and the molar proportions of amine and alkali met 1 hydroxide to bischloroformate being 0.2 1.0 1 and 2 3 1, respectively and recovering the cyclic oligomers thus formed. As in the embodiment previously described, another portion of said liquid may serve as a solvent for the bischloroformate. Addition of each reagent is preferably continuous, but may be incremental for any or all of said reagents. When a separation step is necessary, the unwanted impurities mav De removed in the necessary amounts by conventional operations such as combining the solution with a non solvent for sand impurities. Illustrative non solvents include ketones such as acetone and methyl isobutyl ketone and esters such as methyl acetate and ethyl acetate. Acetone is a particularly preferred non solvent. Recovery of the cyclic oligomers normally means merely separating the same from diluent by knows methods such as vacuum evaporation and, optionally, from high polymer and other impurities. The preparation cf cyclic olioner mixtures useful in this invention is illustrated by the following examples. All parts and percentages in the examples herein are by weight unless otherwise indicated. Temperatures are in degrees Celsius. Molecular weights, whenever referred to wherein, are weight average unless otherwise indicated and were determined by gel permeation chromatography relative to polystyrene.Examples 1 18 Bisphenol A bischloroformate was reacted with aqueous sodium hydroxide and tri ethyl amine in an organic liquid chloroform in Example 7, methylene chloride in all other examples according to the following procedure The bischloroformate was dissolved in half the amount of organic liquid employed and was added gradually, with slow stirring, to the balance of the reaction mixture.In Examples 1 10 and 12, the triethylamine was all originally preset in the reaction vessel in Examples 14 16, it was added gradually at the same time as the bischloroformates and in Examples 11, 13, 17 and 18, it was added incrementally at the beginning of bischloroformate addition and at intervals of 20, during said addition. The amount of sodium hydroxide used was 2.4 moles per mole of bischloroformate. After all the bischloroformate d been added, the mixture was stirred for about 2 minutes and the reaction was quenched by the addi Zion of a slight excess of 1 F aqueous hydrochloric acid.The solution in the organic liquid was washed twice with dilute aqueous hydrochloric acid, dried by filtration through phase separation paper and evaporated under vacuum.The residue was dissolved in tetrahydrofuran and high polymers were precipitated by addition of acetone. The reaction conditions for Examples 1 18 are listed in Table I together with the approximately percentage by eight of cyclic polycarbonate oligomer present in the product before high polymer precipitation. The weight average molecular weights of the cyclic oligomer mixtures were approximately 1300, corresponding to an average degree of polymerization of about 5.1. TABLE IMolar Bischloroformate ratio, amt., Bischloroformate amine Addimmole l. amt., NaOH bis tion oligorg. total molar chloro temper time, omer inExample liquid mmol ity formate ature min. product 1 100 2 0.313 0.5 20 30 97 2 100 2 0.625 0.5 20 30 95 3 100 2 2.5 0.5 35 55 91 4 100 2 2.5 0.5 0 30 77 5 100 2 2.5 0.5 20 30 87 6 100 2 2.5 0.5 35 30 78 7 100 2 2.5 0.5 50 30 88 8 100 2 2.5 0.25 20 30 74 9 100 1 2.5 0.2 20 15 75 10 200 10 2.5 0.5 20 30 88 11 500 10 2.5 0.25 25 105 83 12 500 10 2.5 0.25 25 105 78 13 500 10 2.5 0.25 25 105 83 14 500 10 2.5 0.25 25 105 87 15 500 10 2.5 0.29 30 90 78 16 500 10 2.5 0.25 30 20 75 17 500 10 2.5 0.25 40 45 105 79 18 500 10 2.5 0.4 25 105 79 example 19 Bisphenol A bischloroformate 2.0 mmol. was reacted wIth aqueous sodium hydroxide and 4 dlmethylamino pyridine in methylene chloride. The procedure employed was that of Example 1, except that 66.67 mmol. of bisphenol A per liter C methylene chloride was employed, the aqueous sodium hydroxide concentration was 5.0 M and the reaction temperature was about 250C. The product comprised 85 cyclic cligomer. Polymerzation of the cyclic oligomer mixture is .yp ca ly effected b contacting the same with a minor effective amount of a polycarbonate formation catalyst. The catalyst should ordinarily be incorporated in the prepreg composition of this invention, as by dissolving the same in the cyclic oligomer mixture prior to contact with the filler. The polycarbonate formation catalysts which can be used according to this invention include various bases andLewis acids. It is known that basic catalysts may be used to prepared polycarbonates by the interfacial method, as well as by transesterification and from cyclic oligomers.Reference is made to the aforementioned U.S. Patent 4,217,438 as well as U.S. Patents 3,155,683, 3,274,214 and 4,368,315. Such catalysts may also be used to polymerize the cyclic oligomer mixtures. Examples thereof are lithium 2,2,2 trifluoroethoxIde,n butyllithium and tetramethylammonium hydroxide. Also useful are various weakly basic salts such as sodium benzoate and lithium stearate. Lewis acids useful as polycarbonate formation catalysts include dioctyltin oxide, triethanolaminetitanium isopropoxide, tetra 2 ethylhexyl titanate and polyvalent metal especially titanium and aluminum chelates such as bisisopropoxytitanium bisacetylacetonate commercially available under the trade name Tyzor RA and the bisisopropoxyaluminium salt of ethyl acetoacetate. Among the preferred catalysts are lithium stearate and bisisopropoxytitanium bisacetylacetonate. The prepreg compositions of this invention may contain up to about 70 ,0 filler by volume when a woven filler is used, and up to about 40 In the case of non woven fillers. In general, the amount of polycarbonate formation catalyst used is about O.COl l.O mole percent based on oligomer mixture. Polymerization of the catalyst containing prepreg compositions cf this invention may be effected by heating them at a temperature up to 3500C, preferably about 200300 C. Certain methods of prepreg preparation, more fully described hereinafter, may involve melting the oligomer mixture by heating it to temperatures above 2250C, whereupon polymerization may be initiated. However, the polymerization rate is initially slow enough to be negligible for the time period required to impregnate the filler and fill the mold. Thus, the presence in the prepreg composition of a minor amount of polymerization product of the cyclic oligo mer mixture i.e., linear polycarbonate is contemplated as part of the invention. Various options for prepreg formation will be apparent to those skilled in the art. For example, the filler and the solid oligomer mixture may be combined in the cold mold, but this is not always convenient since the oligomer mixtures are powdery solids at room temperature.Alternatively, the oligomer mixture may be liquefied in a chamber external to the mold and passed in liquid form into the hot mold. It may first meet the filler in said chamber or in the mold itself, the latter option resulting in a resin transfer molding process. Polymerization of the prepreg in the mold is typically conducted at the above described polymerization temperatures and at conventional pressures. Because of the relatively low viscosity of the cyclic oligomer mixture at these temperatures, it may be preferable to employ a matched die type of mold. It is generally advisable to coat the mold surfaces with a suitable mold release agent, typically a silicone material, before charging it with the oligomer mixture. Upon polymerization and molding as described herein, fiber reinforced polycarbonate articles are obtained which have excellent thermal stability, solvent resistance and other properties. Such articles are another aspect of the present invention. The invention is illustrated by the following example.Example 20 The filler used was a commercially available graphite fabric containing 3000 fllament count continuousAS4 fiber in a balanced 8 harness, satin weave construction.Rectangular swaths of the fabric, 1.27 x 12,7 cm., were cut with the warp and weft directions coinciding with the swath edges. The swaths were placed, five in a stack, in a heat resistant glass cylinder and nitrogen was passed through for 45 minutes. The temperature of the cylinder was then raised to 4500C to remove the sizing from the graphite fibers. At about 4000C, thick black smoke was noted. After 60 minutes at 4500C, the tube was removed from the furnace and allowed to cool while nitrogen passage was continued.When the temperature of the tube reached 250C, the fabric swaths were removed and stored in a vacuum desiccator. A 10 gram sample of cyclic bisphenol A carbonate oligomer similar to those described Examples 1 18 was dissolve n 130 m1. of methylene chloride and 160 micro liters of G 0.1 M solution of the bisisopropoxyaluminum salt of ethyl acetoacetate in toluene was added. The mixture was stirred and the solvent was stripped in a rotary evaporator, after which h te oligomer catalyst mixture was dried under nitrogen at i100. A posItIve pressure mold whose cavity size matched the dimensions of the graphite fabric swaths was sprayed with G commercially avaIlable silicone mold release agent.The mold was maintained at room temperature as a stack of five swaths cf graphite fabric was placed therein, with oligomer powder being sprinkled uniformly between every two swaths to produce a 9 layer sandwich at a filler loading of 55 by volume. The mold was closed and transferred to a 4z5 kN. press whose platens were heated at 270 C. The mold was heated at 10 C per minute to 2500C under virtually no pressure. Above 200 C, the mold charge began to compact due to initial melting of the oligomer mixture. When the mold temperature hac reached 250 C, 13.8 MPa of pressure was applied for 15 minutes1 whereupon the mold temperature increased to 265 C. The mold was transferred to a similar press whose platens were water cooled at about 20 C, with the pressure initially set at 13.8 MPa. When the mold had cooled to 500C, it was opened and the molded article removed. It was jet black with a smooth, shiny, resin rich surface, through which the details of the carbon fiber fabric were seen.Upon removal of a piece of the edge, an interior surface was revealed which contained no poorly impregnated fibers. When the article was dropped on a flat, hard surface, it produced a high pitch ring, generally associated with well impregnated carbon fiber composites. A fragment of the article was removed and the resin was extracted with chlorofcrm. Upon filtration of the chloroform extract and reprecipitation using methanol, the solid polycarbonate was obtained. After drying, its weight average molecular weight was found by gel permeation chromatography to be 57,570 relative to polystyrene . The article was subjected to 3 point bend testing according to ASTM method D790. It was found to have aYoung s modulus of 6X.7 GPa., an ultimate strength of 772MPa. and a strain to failure of 1.11 . Simllar composite articles were prepared using type E glass fibers and highly oriented polyamide fibers sold under the trade name evlar 49