# Rolling mill using variable crown roll.

## Abstract
A multi high rolling mill comprising work rolls and back up rolls, in which at least one of said rolls is a variable crown roll having the extent of crowning controlled by a pressure medium.

## Claims
We claim 1. A multi high rolling mill comprising one or more work rolls and one or more back up rolls, characterized in that at least one of the rolls of said mill is a variable crown roll which is controlled in the extent of crowning by a pressure medium. 2. A four hign rolling mill according to Claim 1, characterized in that at least one of the back up rolls is a variable crown roll. 3. A four high rolling mill according to Claim 1, characterized in that at least one of the work rolls is a variable crown roll. 4. A four high rolling mill according to Claim 1, characterized in that a pair of the back up rolls are variable crown rolls which are different in construction from each other. 5. A four high rolling mill according to Claim 1, characterized in that a pair of the work rolls are variable crown rolls which are different in construction from each other. 6. A rolling mill according to any one of Claims 1 to 5, characterized in that the extent of crowning of the variable crown is controlled by a signal indicative of the shape and or the sheet crown of the material to be rolled. 7. A rolling mill according to Claim 1, characterized in that roll benders are provided between said work rolls and or said back up rolls to control the extent of crowning of the variable crown roll and the roll bending force, thereby controlling the sheet crown and the shape of the material to be rolled.

## Description
ROLLING MILL USING VARIABLE CRORTN ROLL The present invention relates to a multi high rolling mill using at least one variable crown roll. The rolling mill to which the principle of the present invention applies comprises at least a pair of work rolls and a back up roll arranged in at least three high mainly fourhigh and in a single stand or tandem stands, for applications of either hot or cold rollings and preferably comprises further roll benders as additional equipment. The term work roll as used herein and in the claims is to be understood to mean a roll in direct contact with a material to be rolled and the term back up roll is to be understood to mean a roll directly or indirectly supporting the work roll. The variable crown roll is so constructed as to be controllable in the extent of crowning of the roll by introducing a fluid or a viscous material under pressure into a predetermined cavity defined between an arbor and a sleeve. The variable crown roll has been heretofore used in two high rolling mills but never in three or more high rolling mills. For example, United States Patents Nos.3,604,086 and 3,457,617 disclose variable crown rolls which were, however, all applied to two high rolling mills only.The two high rolling mills using conventional variable crown rolls had several disadvant.ages such that the work rolls were unable to withstand high rolling load, it was difficult to manufacture roll sleeves of high hardness, the toughness of the sleeve decreased because of the requirement for higher surface hardness of the rolls, and shape defects are easily caused in the strip in the neighborhood of the pressure receiving sleeve end. Accordingly, such rolling mills were, while suitable for light load rolling such, for example, as temper rolling, not suitable for heavy load, rolling such as common hot or cold rolling. Heretofore, the variable crown roll was not applied to the multi high rolling mills particularly to back up rolls probably for the following apprehensions 1 In view of the fact that the material is rolled by work rolls usually of the diameter as large as 500 600 mm, mere application of the variable crown roll hereinafter referred to simply VC roll to the back up rolls is not expected to provide any particular effect. 2 It is doubtful that pipe shaped rolls as the VC rolls achieve satisfactory rolling. 3 The diametrical expanded VC rolls may rather be depressed by the high rolling load failing to provide any effect. 4 The sleeve holding force may be insufficient, thereby causing roll bending. 5 The VC rolls may be dangerous from the view point of fatigue safety factor. Based on many years experience and theoretical and experimental supports, the inventors have the following views of the above mentioned apprehensions 1 The crowning effect of the back up roll is provided to the rolled material through the work rolls. In fact, a change of approximately 1 2 1 5 of the diametrical expansion in the outer diameter of the rolls appears in the rolled material. The efficiency of this expansion is sufficient for controlling the crown and the shape. 2 Since the VC roll is provided with a small cavity only in the pressure receiving sleeve portion of the roll, the mill rigidity thereof is substantially the same as that of solid rolls. 3 The diametrical expansion of the VC roll can be made larger than the depression thereof by the high rolling load. 4 When the back up roll is a VC roll, a large sleeve holding force can be provided since the pressure receiving sleeve part length of the back up roll need not be larger than the width of the material to be rolled. Generally in the rolling mills, since the work rolls are driven, the torque exerted on the back up rolls is smaller than that exerted on the work rolls. 5 It is possible to design the VC rolls having the fatigue safety factor of 1.5 3. Accordingly, the inventors have sufficient reason to state that the VC roll is satisfactorily applicable to the multi high rolling mills. Therefore, an object of the present invention is to apply the VC rolls to the multi high rolling mill to thereby make extensive and manifold rolling practicable. The basic conception of the present invention is to provide a multi high mainly four high rolling mill comprising a pair of work rolls and at least one back up roll, in which at least one of the rolls is a VC roll. Having this construction as the basis, the present invention intends to provide the following modifications a. A four high rolling mill in which at least one of a pair of back up rolls is a VC roll or at least one of a pair of work rolls is a VC roll b. A four high rolling mill in which a pair of the backup rolls are VC rolls of different construction from each other, or a pair of the work rolls are VC rolls of different construction from each other and c. A detection signal of the shape or the crowning or both of them of the material to be rolled are utilized to control the extent of the crowning of the VC rolls. The invention will be better understood from the following description taken in connection with the accompanying drawings. Fig. 1 is a schematic sectional view of a VC roll Figs. 2A to 2F are schematic illustrations of typical roll arrangements of the rolling mill to which application of the present invention is intended Figs. 3A and 3B are schematic illustrations of roll stand arrangements of the rolling mill to which application of the present invention is intended Fig. 4 is an illustration of function of roll benders Figs. 5 to 8 are illustrations of roll arrangements of embodiments of the present invention Figs. 9 and 10 are schematic cross sectional views of a four high rolling mill of another embodiment of the present invention Fig. 11 is an illustration of control of the shape and the crowning of the material being rolled by the rolling mill according to the present invention Figs. 12 to 17 are graphs showing the results of various tests in the rolling mill according to the present invention Fig. 18 is a schematic cross sectional view showing the construction in which the roll benders are assembled to the four high rolling mill according to the present invention and Figs. 19 to 21 are graphs showing the results of various tests in the rolling mill of Fig. 18. Several preferred embodiments of the present invention will now be described with reference to the accompanying drawings. Before describing the present invention in detail, the construction and the function of the VC roll used in the present invention will be described briefly with reference to Fig. 1. In the basic construction of the VC roll, as shown in Fig. 1, an annular cavity 3 is defined between an arbor 1 and a sleeve 2, to which a medium for example, water, oil, grease or the like under high pressure is applied from a medium pressurizing unit 4 through a conduit 11 provided in the arbor 1 so as to control the extent of crowning of the roll that is, the extent of the diametrical expansion of the roll outer diameter by regulating the pressure of the medium by means of the unit 4. The rolling mills to which the present invention is intended are of the types, for example, as shown in Figs.2 to 4. In roll arrangement, the rolling mills are, in principle, multi high rolls mainly from three high to sixhigh rolls as shown in Figs. 2A to 2F and most suitably fourhigh rolls as shown in Fig. 2C. Accordingly, the present invention will be described hereinunder as being applied to the four high rolling mill for the sake of simplicity but it must be understood that application of the present invention is not limited thereto. Th roll stand arrangement, the rolling mill may be either of single stand as shown in Fig.3A or of tandem stands shown in Fig. 33. With respect to additional equipment, the rolling mill is preferably provided with roll bender JW or J3 in the work roll W or back up roll B thereof. The basic construction of the rolling mill according to the present invention resides in, as shown with reference to the three high mill for convenience sake in Figs. 5A to 5G, the multi high rolling mill in which at least one of the rolls is the VC roll hatched in the drawing . Accordingly, the three high rolling mill according to the present invention may take any of the roll combinations shown in Figs. 5A to 5G. Special effects achieved by this construction will become clear from the ensuing description. In an embodiment of the present invention, the fourhigh rolling mill has, as shown in Figs. 6A to 6C, at least one VC roll hatched in the drawing in the back up rolls. In this embodiment, the extent of crowning of the back up rolls is first changed. The change then exerts an influence on the work rolls to bend the entire shafts of the work rolls to thereby cause a substantially predetermined extent of change in the crown of the work rolls. Sheet crown thickness distribution across the strip width and shape tests were performed in the four high rolling mill for test in which, as shown in Fig. 6A, the upper back up roll is a VC roll of the size 200 mm in outer diameter and 460 mm in length while the work roll is of the size 80 mm in outer diameter and 460 mm in length. Fig. 12 shows the results of the sheet crown tests performed on an aluminum plate of 4 mm in thickness and 350 mm in width under the rolling load of 20 tons using the fourhigh rolling mill described above. In Fig. 12, the marks 0, r A and X denote the oil pressure P Kg cm2 of the VC roll at 0, 165, 340, and 510, respectively. As seen fromFig. 12, as the oil pressure of the VC roll increases, the axial deflection of the work rolls changes. The sheet crown changes with the change in the axial deflection of the work rolls. Thus, the sheet crown control effect according to the present invention was confirmed. Fig. 13 shows the results of the shape tests performed on a cold rolled coil of 0.4 mm in thickness and 300 mm in width under fixed drafts using the same four high rolling mill described above. In Fig. 13, the marks 0, , and A indicates the reduction of 0.5, 1.0, and 14.5, respectively.As seen from Fig. 13, as the oil pressure of the VC roll increases, the shape of the rolled material changes from wavy edges to center buckle and, under the predetermined reduction good flatness is obtained at a specified oil pressure. By combining bender it becomes possible to correct quarter buckle shape defect. Thus the shape control effect according to the present invention was confirmed. The application of the VC roll to the back up roll provides the following advantages 1 Since the roll diameter and the sleeve thickness can be larger than in the work roll, the stress generated in the roll can be reduced. 2 Since the rolling is performed through the work rolls, the pressure receiving sleeve part length of the back up roll can be determined independent of the width of the material. 3 Since the hardness of the surface of the roll may be low, selection of the sleeve material is made easy. 4 Since the rotational frequency is smaller than in the work rolls with respect to the same rolling speed, design of the rotary joint is made easy. 5 Since the sleeve thickness becomes large, the value of concavity is smaller than the value of expansion in the outer diameter. 6 Consequently, the rolling with higher speed, larger load, and larger width is made possible. In another embodiment of the present invention, the four high rolling mill has, as shown in Figs. 7A to 7C, at least one VC roll hatched in the drawing in the work rolls. In this embodiment, the extent of crowning of the work rolls is directly changed and the change is strengthened by the reaction of the back up rolls. Sheet crown and shape tests were performed in the fourhigh rolling 11 for test shown schematically in Fig. 7, the work rolls and the back up rolls of which are of the same size as those of Fig. EA. Fig. 14 shows the results of the sheet crown tests performed on an aluminum plate of 4 mm in thickness and 250 mm in width under the rolling load of 20 tons using the four high rolling mill described above. In Fig. 14, the marks 0, , and X denote the oil pressure P Kg cm2 of theVC roll at 0, 200, and 400, respectively. The curves ofFig. 14 show the similar tendency to those of Fig. 12. Fig. 15 shows the results of the shape tests performed on a cold rolled coil of 0.4 mm in thickness and 300 mm in width under the reduction of 1 using the same four high rolling mill with the oil pressure P Kg cm2 of the VC roll changed. The curves of Fig. 15 show the similar tendency to those of Fig. 13. The application of the VC roll to the work rolls of the four high rolling mill provides the following advantages over the application of the VC roll to the work rolls of the two high rolling mill 1 In the four high rolling mill, since the deflection in the work rolls is received by the back up rolls, the crowning effect of the VC roll is larger than in the two high rolling mill. 2 In the four high rolling mill, the combination of the diametrical expansion of the VC roll with a work roll bender or with a back up roll bender to be described hereinunder can correct complicated shape defects such, for example, as quarter buckle. It will be readily estimated that said effect can be doubled by the use of the VC roll for both the upper and the lower back up rolls or both the upper and the lower work rolls. Figs. 16 and 17 show the results of the sheet crown and the shape tests, respectively, performed in a further embodiment of the present invention in which the VC roll is used in one of each of the back up and the work rolls as shown in Figs. 8A and 8B. The sizes of the rolls of the mills and the sizes and the quality of the specimens used in the tests of Figs. 16 and 17 are the same as those used in the tests of Fig. 14. In Fig. 16, the marks 0, , and X denote the oil pressure P Kg cm2 of the VC roll at 0, 100, and 200, respectively. In the bar crown tests of Fig. 16, the rolling load was 25 tons. In Fig. 17, the marks Oand denotes the reduction 5 of 3 and 15, respectively. As seen from Figs. 16 and 17, the sheet crown and shape control effects show the similar tendency to those described above and as the number of the VC rolls used increases, the effect thereby also increases. It was confirmed that the embodiment shown in Figs. 8A and 8B is effective for control of the shape and particularly for correction of the shape defects such as quarter buckle which was heretofore difficult to be solved by the conventional rolling mills. The foregoing description assumes that the VC rolls used in pair are of the same internal construction. As shown in Figs. 9 and 10, however, by intentionally making one of the VC rolls in pair different from the other in the variable crown construction primarily the size of the cavity which is filled by the pressure medium , it is made possible to roll efficiently materials ranging in width radically without changing the rolls. That is, a material of large width is rolled by rolls of large width variable crown construction, a material of small width is rolled by rolls of small width variable crown construction, and a material of intermediate width is rolled by rolls of large width alone or in combination with the rolls of small width variable crown rolls. It was confirmed that the sheet crown correction and the shape correction effects are obtained by using the VC rolls properly as described above. Accordingly, the sheet crown and shape control system can be constructed by combining the VC rolls with a detector. For example, as shown in Fig. 11, a rolling mill 21 is provided on the exit entry side thereof with a sheet crown and shape detector 22, a detection signal of which is transmitted to a control unit 23 in which the detection signal is compared with the set value, to control the medium pres surizing unit 4 see Fig. 1 of the VC roll provided in the rolling mill 21. The detector is preferably of non contact type.Various instruments such as an X ray thickness meter, a ss ray thickness meter, a flying micrometer and the like can be used as the sheet crown detector. There are various types of the shape detector such as optical type, electromagnetic type, displacement type, vibration type, and the like. The relation between the sheet crown and the shape will now be briefly described. With respect to the sheet thickness distribution of the material to be rolled, if the sheet crown ratio on the entrance side of the mill is Cri and the sheet crown ratio on the exit side of the mill isCro, and if Cri Cro, there is no shape defect caused because the widthwise distribution with respect to the longitudinal elongation is uniform. If Cri Cro, the sheet is elongated more in the center of width than in both the edges into the shape defect of center buckle. On the contrary, if Cri c Cro, the bar is elongated more in both the edges than in the center of width into the shape defect of wavy edges. Accordingly, the sheet crown is closely related to the shape. Generally, since a small change in the sheet crown causes a large change in the shape, rolling is performed particularly in cold rolling paying attention mainly to the shape. However, in the case, as in hot rolling, where the sheet thickness is large and metal flow occurs readily, there is caused no extreme shape defect since the material readily flows widthwise when the sheet crown changes.Accordingly, the crown control is easily effected in hot rolling. In this way, in a multi pass rolling the sheet crown control is performed within the range of the shape defect that is not disadvantageous to the rolling operation and the shape control is performed at the final pass. In a tandem rolling, the sheet crown is performed at the upstream stand and the shape attended control is performed at the final stand. In the conventional rolling mill, the shape correction was performed by a work roll bender or a back up roll bender.As an application of the present invention, a combination of the roll bender with the VC roll is possible. The results of numerical experiments show that this construction provides unexpected multiplication effects as described below. The rolling mill used in the experiments is, as shown in Fig. 18, a four high mill in which the upper back up rollB is a VC roll and a roll bender is provided between the work rolls W. Table 1 shows the sizes of this rolling mill and the rolling conditions. Table 1EMI10.1 tb SEP Item SEP Mark SEP Cold SEP Rolling SEP Cold SEP Tandem SEP SEP Hot SEP Tandem tb SEP Temper tb SEP DB SEP 1524 SEP 1524 SEP 1422 tb Roll SEP Size SEP Db SEP 900 SEP 953.9 SEP 781.1 tb SEP mm SEP DW SEP 585 SEP 585 SEP 713 tb SEP Dw SEP 342.9 SEP 342.9 SEP 457 tb Rolled SEP Bar tb Width SEP mm SEP SEP RL1 SEP 1200 SEP 1000 SEP 1000 SEP tb SEP RL2 SEP 1680 SEP 1704 SEP 2032 tb Mill SEP Size SEP RL3 SEP 2880 SEP 2720 SEP 3124 tb SEP mm SEP RL4 SEP 600 SEP 508 SEP 546 tb SEP RL5 SEP 2880 SEP 2720 SEP 3124 tb Rolling SEP Load SEP P SEP 500 SEP 900 SEP 900 tb Bending SEP Force SEP JW SEP O SEP SEP 80 SEP 0 SEP SEP 100 SEP 0 SEP SEP 180 tb SEP ton tb Initial Crown O Figs. 19 to 21 show the results of tests performed on the relation between the work roll bending force JW ton and the bar crown when the oil pressure P Kg cm2 applied to the VC roll in this rolling mill is varied stepwise. Fig. 19 shows the results of the cold temper rolling of a material of 1200 mm in width under the rolling load of 500 tons. In Fig. 19, the horizontal axis indicates the bending force JW ton . of the work rolls and the vertical axis indicates the bar crown cm at the position of 1 4 of width. In Fig. 19, A denotes the conventional bending effect 19.2p , B denotes the effects of change in oil pressure of the VC roll only 31.3 , and C denotes the multiplication effect 51.6cur by the VC roll and the bender. Fig. 20 shows the results of the cold tandem rolling of a material of 1000 mm in width under the rolling load of 900 tons. In Fig. 20, the horizontal and vertical axes and the reference characters A, B and C, respectively, denote the same items as in Fig. 19, provided that A 14.8z, B 21.8p, and C 36.5p. Fig. 21 shows the results of the hot tandem rolling of a material of 1000 mm in width under the rolling load of 900 tons. In Fig. 21, the horizontal axis JW the vertical axis oc, and the reference characters A, B and C, respectively, denotes the same items as in Fig. 19 provided that indicates the sheet crown at the point 50 mm from the edge and thatA 27.2p, B 39.7p, and C 66.9z. As clearly seen from Figs. 19 to 21, in the case where a single VC roll is used, the change in oil pressure fromO 300 Kg cm2 provides the equivalent or better effect than in the conventional roll bender and the combination of theVC roll with the roll bender provides 2 to 4 times higher sheet crown control effect than the conventional roll bender. While the present invention has been heretofore described with respect to its application to a single stand rolling mill, it will be obvious to those skilled in the art that the present invention is applicable to a continuous hot or cold rolling stand Fig. 3B . In this case, it is desirable that the VC roll is applied to all the stands. However, even where theVC roll is applied only to limited stands in view of reduction in cost, sufficient effects are obtained therefrom as shown in Tables 2 and 3. Table 2Examples in Continuous Cold MillEMI12.1 tb SEP Stand SEP No. SEP Sheet SEP Crown SEP Shape SEP Edge SEP Drop tb SEP Control SEP i SEP I SEP Control SEP Control SEP Decreasing tb 1 SEP 2 SEP 3 SEP 4 SEP 5 SEP Effect SEP Effect SEP Effect tb SEP 0 SEP commat SEP 0 tb SEP O SEP 0 SEP 0 tb SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 tb SEP X SEP O SEP iO SEP X tb Table 3Examples in Continuous Hot MillEMI12.2 tb SEP Stand SEP No. SEP Sheet SEP Crown SEP Shape SEP Edge SEP Drop tb SEP Control SEP Control SEP Decreasing tb SEP 3 SEP 3 SEP 4 SEP 5 SEP 6 SEP Effect SEP Effect SEP Effect tb SEP commat tb SEP 0 SEP 0 tb SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 tb SEP X SEP X tb where VC roll applied very effective effective less effective While Table 3 shows the examples of application of the VC roll to a continuous finishing mill, application of it to a roughing mill is likewise effective. Particularly, its application to a roughing mill of a semi continuous hot strip mill is effective not only in crown control but also in improvement in the crop loss at the top or bottom of the strip. In the continuous mill, the combination of the VC roll with the conventional roll bender provides an enlarged range of control.