# 1,4 DIHYDROPYIRIDINE DERIVATIVE, A PROCESS FOR PREPARING1,4 DIHYDROPYIRIDINE DERIVATIVE, A PROCESS FOR PREPARING THE SAME, A PHARMACEUTICAL COMPOSITION AS WELL AS THE U THE SAME, A PHARMACEUTICAL COMPOSITION AS WELL AS THE USE THEREOF SE THEREOF

## Abstract
A novel 1,4 dihydropyridine derivative is disclosed having the formula There is also described a process for the preparation of the claimed 1,4 dihydropyridine derivative, a pharmacological composition containing the same and the use thereof.

## Claims
1. A 1,4 dihydropyridine derivative represented by the general formula wherein R¹ stands for an aryl or heteroaryl group which may be substituted with a lower alkyl, lower alkoxy, halogen, nitro, trifluoro methyl or cyano group or may form an alkylene dioxy group together with an adjacent carbon atom consisting an aryl group R² stands for a lower alkoxy group, a group represented by the general formula wherein n stands for a positive number of 2 to 6 and W stands for a hydrogen or halogen atom or a lower alkoxy group or a group represented by the general formula wherein R⁶ stands for a hydrogen atom or a nitro group and X stands for a hydrogen or halogen atom or a lower alkoxy group R³ stands for a hydrogen atom or a 4 p fluoro benzoyl 1 piperidyl group, or alternatively, R² and R³ may together form a ring R⁴ stands for a hydrogen atom, a lower alkyl or phenylalkyl group or a group represented by the formula CH₂ L wherein L stands for a group of OR⁷ wherein R⁷ stands for a lower alkyl group or a group represented by the general formula wherein m stands for a positive number of 0 to 5 and Y stands for a hydrogen or halogen atom or a lower alkoxy group R⁵ stands for a lower alkyl or lower alkoxy lower alkyl group, a group represented by the general formula wherein p stands for a positive number of 1 to 6 and Z stands for a hydrogen or halogen atom or a lower alkoxy group or a group represented by the general formula wherein q stands for a positive number of 1 to 6 and M stands for a hydrogen or halogen atom or a lower alkoxy group , or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof.

## Description
The present invention relates to novel 1,4 dihydropyridine derivatives having an excellent pharmacological action. Particularly, it relates to a 1,4 dihydropyri dine derivative represented by the general formula In the above definition of the compound I according to the present invention, the term lower alkyl refers to straight chain or branched alkyl groups having 1 to 6 carbon atoms, such as methyl, ethyl, n propyl, isopropyl, n butyl, isobutyl, 1 methylpropyl, tert butyl, n pentyl, 1 ethylpropyl, isoamyl or n hexyl group. Further, the terms lower alkoxy group and lower alkoxy lower alkyl group refer to groups each derived from the above lower alkyl groups. Representative examples of the aryl group in the definition of R¹ include phenyl and naphthyl groups. R² and R³ may together form a ring. Particu larly, the present invention includes compounds represented by the formula The halogen in the definition of W, X, Y, Z or M refers to fluorine, bromine, iodine and chlorine. The compound I of the present invention can be converted into its acid addition salt by reacting it with a pharmaceutically acceptable inorganic or organic acid. Examples of the inorganic acid in clude hydrochloric, hydrobromic, hydroiodic, sulfu ric and phosphoric acids, while those of the organic acid include maleic, fumaric, succinic, acetic, malonic, citric, benzoic, oxalic, and methanesulfonic acids. The compound I of the present invention is thought owing to its structural characteristics to be present as optical isomers based on the asymmetric carbon atom at position 3 of the 1,4 dihydropyridine ring. The present invention includes all of the isomers. The compound of the present invention can be prepared by various methods, among which representa tive methods are as follows The following three compounds are reacted to obtain an objective compound. The above three components are reacted in the presence of an alcohol preferably selected from among methanol, ethanol, n propanol, isopropanol, butanol and the like, preferably at a temperature of 50 to 150 C. The amounts of the components An acetoacetate derivative represented by the general formula III to be used as a starting material in the above reaction can be prepared by, for example, the following method. An alcohol derivative represented by the general formula HO R⁵ V wherein R⁵ is as defined above is reacted with a diketene in the presence or absence of a solvent to obtain an objective aceto acetate derivative. Preferred examples of the solvent include benzene, toluene and xylene. It is preferred that an alcohol derivative V is reacted with a diketene in a molar ratio of between 1 1 and 1 3. The reaction temperature is preferably 0 to 150 C. This reaction is carried out generally at a temperature of 50 to 150 C in the presence of an alcohol solvent such as methanol, ethanol, n butanol, isopropanol or butanol. It is preferred that a benzylideneacetoacetate derivative VI is reacted with an enaminocarboxylate derivative IV in a molar ratio of between 1 1 and 1 2. A benzylideneacetoacetate derivative VI to be used as a starting material in this method can be prepared by reacting a compound represented by the general formula II with a compound represented by the general formula III according to known methods, for example, a method described in Organic Synthesis, Collective Vol. 4, p.408 1963 . for compounds represented by the general formula I wherein R⁴ stands for a hydrogen atom, a lower alkyl or phenylalkyl group or a group represented by the formula CH₂ L wherein L stands for a group of OR⁷resented by wherein R⁷ stands for a lower alkyl group or a group represented by the general formula The following three components are condensed to obtain an objective compound. The above condensation of components Now, representative compounds of the present invention will be described to give a better under standing of the present invention. Of course, these representative compounds do not restrict the present invention, but are for the above purpose. 2 4 p fluorobenzoyl 1 piperidyl ethyl isopropyl 2,6 dimethyl 4 o,m dichlorophenyl 1,4 dihyrdro pyridine 3,5 dicarboxylate 2 4 p fluorobenzoyl 1 piperidyl ethyl propyl 2,6 dimethyl 4 o,m dichlorophenyl 1,4 dihydro pyridine 3,5 dicarboxylate 2 4 p fluorobenzoyl 1 piperidyl ethyl methoxy ethyl 2,6 dimethyl 4 o,m dichlorophenyl 1,4 dihydropyridine 3,5 dicarboxylate 2 4 p chlorobenzoyl 1 piperidyl ethyl benzyl 2,6 dimethyl 4 o,m dichlorophenyl 1,4 dihydro pyridine 3,5 dicarboxylate 2 4 benzoyl 1 piperidyl ethyl methyl 2,6 dimethyl 4 m nitrophenyl 1,4 dihydropyridine 3,5 dicarboxylate 2 4 p chlorobenzoyl 1 piperidyl ethyl methyl 2,6 dimethyl 4 m nitrophenyl 1,4 dihydropyridine 3,4 dicarboxylate 2 4 p bromobenzoyl 1 piperidyl ethyl methyl 2,6 dimethyl 4 m nitrophenyl 1,4 dihydropyridine 3,5 dicarboxylate 2 4 p methoxybenzoyl 1 piperidyl ethyl methyl 2,6 dimethyl 4 m nitrophenyl 1,4 dihydropyridine 3,5 dicarboxylate 2 4 p fluorobenzoyl 1 piperidyl ethyl methyl 1 ethyl 2,6 dimethyl 4 o nitrophenyl 1,4 dihydro pyridine 3,5 dicarboxylate 2 4 p fluorobenzoyl 1 piperidyl ethyl methyl 1 benzyl 2,6 dimethyl 4 o nitrophenyl 1,4 dihydropyridine 3,5 dicarboxylate 2 4 p fluorobenzoyl 1 piperidyl ethyl ethoxy methyl 1 benzyl 2,6 dimethyl 4 o nitrophenyl 1,4 dihydropyridine 3,5 dicarboxylate 2 4 p fluorobenzoyl 1 piperidyl ethyl methyl 1 2 4 p fluorobenzoyl 1 piperidyl ethyl 2,6 dimethyl 4 o nitrophenyl 1,4 dihydropyridine 3,5 dicarboxylate 4 m nitrophenyl 3 ethoxycarbonyl 5 methoxycarbo nyl 6 methyl 2 4 p fluorobenzoyl 1 piperidyl ethoxymethyl 1,4 dihydropyridine 2 4 p fluorobenzoyl 1 piperidyl ethyl methyl 2,6 dimethyl 4 m nitrophenyl 1,4 dihydropyridine 3,5 dicarboxylate 2 4 p fluorobenzoyl 1 piperidyl ethyl methyl 2,6 dimethyl 4 2 ,3 dichlorophenyl 1,4 dihydro pyridine 3,5 dicarboxylate 2 4 p fluorobenzoyl 1 piperidyl ethyl ethyl 2,6 dimethyl 4 2 ,3 dichlorophenyl 1,4 dihydro pyridine 3,5 dicarboxylate 2 4 p fluorobenzoyl 1 piperidyl ethyl 2 methoxy ethyl 2,6 dimethyl 4 m nitrophenyl 1,4 dihydro pyridine 3,5 dicarboxylate 2 4 p fluorobenzoyl 1 piperidyl ethyl methyl 2,6 dimethyl 4 o nitrophenyl 1,4 dihydropyridine 3,5 dicarboxylate 2 4 p fluorobenzoyl 1 piperidyl ethyl ethyl 2,6 dimethyl 4 o nitrophenyl 1,4 dihydropyridine 3,5 dicarboxylate 2 4 p fluorobenzoyl 1 piperidyl ethyl ethyl 2,6 dimethyl 4 o nitrophenyl 1,4 dihydropyridine 3,5 dicarboxylate 2 4 p fluorobenzoyl 1 piperidyl ethyl methyl 2,6 dimethyl 4 m trifluoromethylphenyl 1,4 dihydropyridine 3,5 dicarboxylate 3 4 p fluorobenzoyl 1 piperidyl proxyl methyl 2,6 dimethyl 4 o nitrophenyl 1,4 dihydropyridine 3,5 dicarboxylate 6 4 p fluorobenzoyl 1 piperidyl hexyl methyl 2,6 dimethyl 4 o nitrophenyl 1,4 dihydropyridine 3,5 dicarboxylate 2 4 hydroxy p fluorophenylmethyl 1 piperidyl ethyl methyl 2,6 dimethyl 4 m nitrophenyl 1,4 dihydropyridine 3,5 dicarboxylate 2 4 nitroxy p fluorophenylmethyl 1 piperidyl ethyl methyl 2,6 dimethyl 4 m nitrophenyl 1,4 dihydropyridine 3,5 dicarboxylate 2 4 p fluorobenzoyl 1 piperidyl ethyl methyl 2,6 dimethyl 4 m,p dichlorophenyl 1,4 dihydro pyridine 3,5 dicarboxylate 2 4 p fluorobenzoyl 1 piperidyl ethyl methyl 2,6 dimethyl 4 o chlorophenyl 1,4 dihydropyri dine 3,5 dicarboxylate 2 4 p fluorobenzoyl 1 piperidyl ethyl methyl 2,6 dimethyl 4 o bromophenyl 1,4 dihydropyridine 3,5 dicarboxylate 2 4 p fluorobenzoyl 1 piperidyl ethyl methyl 2,6 dimethyl 4 p chlorophenyl 1,4 dihydropyri dine 3,5 dicarboxylate 2 4 p fluorobenzoyl 1 piperidyl ethyl methyl 2,6 dimethyl 4 o,p dichlorophenyl 1,4 dihydro pyridine 3,5 dicarboxylate 2 4 p fluorobenzoyl 1 piperidyl ethyl methyl 2,6 dimethyl 4 2 chloro 5 nitrophenyl 1,4 dihydropyridine 3,5 dicarboxylate 2 4 p fluorobenzoyl 1 piperidyl ethyl methyl 2,6 dimethyl 4 2 ,6 dichlorophenyl 1,4 dihydro pyridine 3,5 dicarboxylate 2 4 p fluorobenzoyl 1 piperidyl ethyl methyl 2,6 dimethyl 4 m chlorophenyl 1,4 dihydropyri dine 3,5 dicarboxylate 2 4 p fluorobenzoyl 1 piperidyl ethyl methyl 2,6 dimethyl 4 o cyanophenyl 1,4 dihydropyridine 3,5 dicarboxylate 2 4 p fluorobenzoyl 1 piperidyl ethyl methyl 2,6 dimethyl 4 naphthyl 1,4 dihydropyridine 3,5 dicarboxylate 2 4 p fluorobenzoyl 1 piperidyl ethyl methyl 2,6 dimethyl 4 3 pyridyl 1,4 dihydropyridine 3,5 dicarboxylate 2 4 p fluorobenzoyl 1 piperidyl ethyl methyl 2,6 dimethyl 4 2 chloro 4 ,5 methylenedioxy phenyl 1,4 dihydropyridine 3,5 dicarboxylate 2 4 p fluorobenzoyl 1 piperidyl ethyl methyl 2,6 dimethyl 4 m nitro p chlorophenyl 1,4 dihydropyridine 3,5 dicarboxylate 2 4 p fluorobenzoyl 1 piperidyl ethyl methyl 2,6 dimethyl 4 2 furyl 1,4 dihydropyridine 3,5 dicarboxylate 2 4 p fluorobenzoyl 1 piperidyl ethyl methyl 2,6 dimethyl 4 3 indolyl 1,4 dihydropyridine 3,5 dicarboxylate 2 4 hydroxy p fluorophenylmethyl 1 piperidyl ethyl ethyl 2,6 dimethyl 4 m chlorophenyl 1,4 dihydropyridine 3,5 dicarboxylate 2 methyl 3 methoxycarbonyl 4 m nitrophenyl 5 ethoxycarbonyl 6 4 p fluorobenzoyl 1 piperidyl methyl 1,4 dihydropyridine 2 4 p fluorobenzoyl 1 piperidyl ethyl ethyl 2,6 dimethyl 4 2 ,3 dichlorophenyl 1,4 dihydro pyridine 3,5 dicarboxylate 2 4 p fluorobenzoyl 1 piperidyl ethyl ethyl 2,6 dimethyl 4 o chlorophenyl 1,4 dihydropyri dine 3,5 dicarboxylate 2 4 p fluorobenzoyl 1 piperidyl ethyl methyl 2,6 methyl 4 o fluorophenyl 1,4 dihydropyridine 3,5 dicarboxylate 2 4 p fluorobenzoyl 1 piperidyl ethyl 2 4 p fluorobenzoyl 1 piperidyl ethyl 2,6 dimethyl 4 m nitrophenyl 1,4 dihydropyridine 3,5 dicarbo xylate 2 methyl 3 2 4 p fluorobenzoyl 1 piperidyl ethoxy carbonyl 4 m nitrophenyl 5 1H, 4H, 6H, 7H, 8H pentahydroquinolinone 2 4 p fluorobenzoyl 1 piperidyl ethyl 2 methoxy ethyl 2,6 dimethyl 4 m nitrophenyl 3,5 dicarbo xylate The 1,4 dihydropyridine derivatives of the present invention exhibits excellent hypotensive and coronary vasodilating actions. Up to this time, some 1,4 dihydropyridine derivatives have been used as a medicine for treat ment of cardiopathy, brain circulation failure or hypertension. Representatively, nifedipin 4 2 nitrophenyl 2,6 dimethyl 3,5 dicarbomethoxy 1,4 dihydropyridine and nicaldipin methyl 2 methyl phenylmethyl amino ethyl 1,4 dihydro 2,6 dimethyl 4 3 nitrophenyl 3,5 pyridinedicarboxylate are known as such a medicine. However, these compounds exhibit a relatively short duration of action, thus being significantly problematic in persistency. A medicine for circulatory disease must generally be used repeatedly for a long time owing to charac teristics of this disease, so that the development of a medicine for treatment of hypertension or cardiopathy exhibiting a persistent and stable action has been desired. The inventors of the present invention have long studied on 1,4 dihydropyridine derivative free from the above disadvantage and have found that a 1,4 dihydropyridine derivative represented by the formula I is free from the disadvantage and is very useful as a medicine for treatment of cardio pathy, brain circulation failure, hypertension or the like. The present invention has been accom plished on the basis of this finding. The present invention relates to a 1,4 dihydro pyridine derivative represented by the general formula The compound I of the present invention is characterized by exhibiting not only persistent hypotensive and coronary vasodilating actions based on calcium antagonism but also remarkable serotonin blocking 5 HT₂ and α₁ blocking action which no 1,4 dihydropyridine derivatives of the prior art can exhibit. The compound of the present invention is useful as a medicine for treatment or prevention of cardio pathy with an enhanced thrombotic power such as hypertension, angina pectori or myocardial infarc tion. That is to say, an object of the present inven tion is to provide a novel 1,4 dihydropyridine deri vative which exhibits persistent coronary vasodilat ing and hypotensive actions and is useful as a medicine based on these actions, a process for the preparation thereof and a medicine containing it as an active principle. Now, Experimental Examples will be given to illustrate the effects of the compound of the pre sent invention in more detail. A spontaneously hypertensive male rat SHR in a non narcotized state was examined for systolic pressure at a tail artery with a sphygmomanometer KN 209 type made by Natsume Works . Each test compound was suspended on 0.5 solution of methylcellulose and adminstered per os with a gastrosonde. Nifedipin and nicaldipin were used as a control. The obtained results are shown in Table 1. Table 1 shows the maximum degree of blood pressure drop after the oral administration of 10 mg kg of a test compound ΔmmHg , duration of action and changes in heart rate Δ heart rate min . Mongrel dogs male and female were narcotized with pentobarbital sodium and examined for blood pressure at a femoral artery with a pressure trans ducer MPU 0.5A made by Nippon Koden and for heart rate with a heart rate tachometer. Further, the flow rate of coronary blood was determined with an electromagnetic blood flow meter MFV 1100 made by Nippon Koden whose probe was jointed to a left lotating plate. The recording was carried out with a pen oscillograph. Each test compound was dissolved in a 50 solution of polyethylene glycol and in jected intravenously. The obtained results are shown in Table 2, wherein the coronary vasodilating action is shown in terms of ratio percentage of flow rate for 15 minutes after the intravenous administration of 10 µg kg of a test compound to that before the administration. It is clear from the above results that the com pound of the present invention exhibits hypotensive and coronary vasodilating actions. Accordingly, it is useful as a medicine for treatment or prevention of hypertension, brain circulation failure, and cardiopathy such as ischemic heart disease for example, angina pectori or myocardial infarction . Particularly, the compound of the present invention is characterized by exhibiting a long duration of action, thus being very valuable in this point. The dose of the compound of the present inven tion to be administered to a patient of such a disease is varied depending upon kind or degree of disease, kind of a compound or age of a patient, though not particularly limited. Generally, the compound of the present invention is administered with a dose of about 1 to 1000 mg, preferably about 5 to 300 mg, more preferably 5 to 60 mg per adult and a day orally or parenterally. The dose is preferably administered in 2 to 4 instalments a day. The administration form may be powder, fine granule, granule, tablet, capsule, injection or the like. The compound of the present invention exhibits a remarkably low toxicity, thus being very safe. The compound of the present invention can be converted into a medicine by using an ordinary carrier according to an ordinary method. For example, a solid medicine for oral admini stration can be prepared by mixing a principal agent with a filler and, if necessary, a binder, a dis integrating agent, a lubricant, a coloring agent, a corrigent or the like and converting the obtained mixture into tablet, coated tablet, granule, powder, capsule or the like according to an ordinary method. Examples of the filler include lactose, corn starch, sucrose, glucose, sorbitol, crystalline cellulose and silicon dioxide, while those of the binder include polyvinyl alcohol, polyvinyl ether, ethylcellulose, methylcellulose, acacia, tragacanth, gelatin, shellac, hydroxypropylcellulose, hydroxy propylstarch and polyvinylpyrrolidone. Examples of the disintegrating agent include starch, agar, gelatin powder, crystalline cellulose, calcium carbide, sodium hydrogen carbonate, calcium citrate, dextrin and pectin. Examples of the lubricant include magnesium stearate, talc, polyethylene glycol, silica and hardened vegetable oil. The coloring agent may be any one which is premitted to be added to drugs. Examples of the corrigent include cocoa powder, menthol, aromatic acid, mentha oil, borneol and cinnamon bark powder. The tablet and glanule may of course be coated with sugar, gelatin or other suitable substances. A medicine for injection can be prepared by, if necessary, mixing a principal agent with pH adjuster, buffer, stabilizer, solubilizing agent or the like and converting the resulting mixture into a medicine for injection according to an ordinary method. The following Formulation Examples 1 and 2 will describe the particular examples of a medicine contain ing the compound of the present invention, wherein the active principal refers to 2 4 p fluoro benzoyl 1 piperidyl ethyl ethyl 2,6 dimethyl 4 o fluorophenyl 1,4 dihydropyridine 3,5 dicarboxylate. According to an ordinary method, the above components were mixed and converted into a granule. The granule was compression molded into a tablet having a weight of 100 mg. A capsule having a weight of 100 mg was pre pared by the use of the above formulation according to an ordinary method. Now, Examples of the present invention will be described below, though the present invention is not limited by them. 8.3 g of m nitrobenzaldehyde, 2.9 g of methyl 3 aminocrotonate, 3.8 g of 2 4 p fluorobenzyl 1 piperidyl ethyl acetoacetate and 100 ml of iso propanol were mixed and heated under reflux for 5 hours. The reaction mixture was concentrated under a reduced pressure. The residue was purified by silica gel chromatograph with an eluent consisting of chloroform and ethanol in a ratio by volume of 20 to 1 to obtain a viscous oil. The oil was dis solved in 100 ml of chloroform. The resulting solution was washed with 50 ml of 1 N hydrochloric acid and concentrated under a reduced pressure. The residue was crystallized from ethyl acetate to obtain 11.4 g of the title compound. 1.9 g of o,m dichlorobenzaldehyde, 1,3 g of methyl 3 aminocrotonate, 3.8 g of 2 4 p fluoro benzoyl 1 piperidyl ethyl acetoacetate and 30 ml of isopropanol were mixed and heated under reflux for 6 hours. The reaction mixture was concentrated under a reduced pressure. The residue was purified by silica gel chromatography with an eluent consisting of chloroform and ethanol in a ratio by volume of 20 to 1 to obtain a viscous oil. The oil was dis solved in 50 ml of chloroform. The resulting solu tion was washed with 20 ml of 1N hydrochloric acid and concentrated under a reduced pressure. The residue was crystallized from ethyl acetate to obtain 1.3 g of the title compound. 4.1 g of 2 4 p fluorobenzoyl 1 piperidyl ethyl 2 o,m dichlorobenzylidene acetoacetate, 1.3 g of ethyl 3 aminocrotonate and 30 ml of isopropanol were mixed and heated under reflux for 5 hours. The reaction mixture was concentrated under a reduced pressure. The residue was purified by silica gel chromatography with an eluent consisting of chloroform and ethanol in a ratio by volume of 20 to 1 to obtain a viscous oil. The oil was dissolved in 50 ml of chloroform. The resulting solution was washed with 20 ml of 1N hydrochloric acid and concentrated under a reduced pressure. The residue was crystallized from ethyl acetate to obtain 1.7 g of the title compound. 4.7 g of 2 4 p fluorobenzoyl 1 piperidyl ethyl 2 o chlorobenzylidene acetoacetate, 1.5 g of ethyl 3 aminocrotonate and 30 ml of isopropanol were mixed and heated under reflux for 6 hours. The reaction mixture was concentrated under a reduced pressure. The residue was purified by silica gel chromatography with an eluent consisting of chloroform and ethanol in a ratio by volume of 20 to 1 to obtain a viscous oil. The oil was dissolved in 50 ml of chloroform. The resulting solution was washed with 20 ml of 1N hydrochloric acid and concentrated under a reduced pressure. The residue was crystallized from ethyl acetate to obtain 1.5 g of the title compound. 2.0 g of 2 methoxyethyl 2 m nitrobenzylidene acetoacetate, 2.3 g of 2 4 p fluorobenzoyl 1 piperidyl ethyl acetoacetate, 0.6 g of 28 aqueous ammonia and 30 ml of isopropanol were mixed and heated at 120 C for 12 hours. After the completion of the reaction, the reaction mixture was poured into 50 ml of water and extracted with 50 ml of chloroform. The extract was concentrated under a reduced pressure. The resulting residue was purified by silica gel chromato graphy with an eluent consisting of chloroform and ethanol in a ratio by volume of 20 to 1 to obtain a viscous oil. The oil was dissolved in 50 ml of chloroform. The resulting solution was washed with 20 ml of 1N hydrochloric acid and concentrated under a reduced pressure. The residue was crystallized from ethyl acetate to obtain 0.5 g of the title compound. The 2 4 p fluorobenzoyl 1 piperidyl ethyl acetoacetate used in Example 1 as a starting material was prepared as follows 290g of 2 4 p fluorobenzoyl 1 piperidyl ethanol was mixed with toluene. The resulting mixture was heated at 45 C. 103 g of diketene was dropwise added to the mixture over 20 minutes. After the completion of the dropwise addition, the resulting mixture was heated at 45 C for 1 hour. After the completion of the reaction, the reaction mixture was washed with 300 ml of water and concentrated under a reduced pressure. The residue was purified by silica gel chromatography with an eluent consisting of chloroform and ethanol in a ratio by volume of 20 to 1 to obtain 315 g of 2 4 p fluorobenzoyl 1 piperidyl ethyl aceto acetate as an oil having the following character istics The following compounds were synthesized according to the same procedure as the one described in Example 1 or 2. The NMR spectrum CDCl₃ of each compound free form will also be shown below. 2 4 p fluorobenzoyl 1 piperidyl ethyl methyl 2,6 dimethyl 4 o nitrophenyl 1,4 dihydropyridine 3,5 dicarboxylate NMR CDCl₃ 2.29 3H, s , 2.35 3H, s , 2.58 2H, t , 3.57 3H, s , 4.17 2H, t , 5.80 1H, s , 5.85 1H, s , 7.95 2H, dd 2 4 p fluorobenzoyl 1 piperidyl ethyl ethyl 2,6 dimethyl 4 o nitrophenyl 1,4 dihydropyridine 3,5 dicarboxylate NMR CDCl₃ 2.30 3H, s , 2.32 3H, s , 2.58 2H, t , 5.73 1H, s , 5.80 1H, s , 7.95 2H, dd , 1.17 3H, t 2 4 p fluorobenzoyl 1 piperidyl ethyl methyl 2,6 dimethyl 4 m trifluoromethylphenyl 1,4 dihydro pyridine 3,5 dicarboxylate NMR CDCl₃ 2.30 3H, s , 2.38 3H, s , 2.48 2H, t , 3.62 3H, s , 4.17 2H, t , 6.29 1H, s , 5.06 1H, s , 7.95 2H, dd 3 4 p fluorobenzoyl 1 piperidyl propyl methyl 2,6 dimethyl 4 o nitrophenyl 1,4 dihydropyridine 3,5 dicarboxylate NMR CDCl₃ 2.32 3H, s , 2.38 3H, s , 2.52 2H, t 3.57 3H, 2 , 6.17 1H, s , 5.75 1H, s , 7.94 2H, dd 6 4 p fluorobenzoyl 1 piperidyl hexyl methyl 2,6 dimethyl 4 o nitrophenyl 1,4 dihydropyridine 3,5 dicarboxylate NMR CDCl₃ 2.28 3H, s , 2.35 3H, s , 2.61 2H, t , 3.50 3H, s , 3.98 2H, t , 6.20 1H, s , 5.70 1H, s , 7.90 2H, dd 2 4 hydroxy p fluorophenylmethyl 1 piperidyl ethyl methyl 2,6 dimethyl 4 m nitrophenyl 1,4 dihydropyridine 3,5 dicarboxylate NMR CDCl₃ 2.32 6H, s , 2.50 2H, t , 3.60 3H, s , 4.10 2H, t , 5.75 1H, s , 5.20 1H, s , 4,31 1H, d 2 4 nitroyx p fluorophenylmethyl 1 piperidyl ethyl methyl 2,6 dimethyl 4 m nitrophenyl 1,4 dihydropyridine 3,5 dicarboxylate NMR CDCl₃ 2.30 3H, s , 2.36 3H, s , 2.47 2H, t , 3.57 3H, s , 4.06 2H, t , 5.75 1H, s , 5.23 1H, s , 4.26 1H, d 2 4 p fluorobenzoyl 1 piperidyl ethyl methyl 2,6 dimethyl 4 m,p dichlorophenyl 1,4 dihydro pyridine 3,5 dicarboxylate NMR CDCl₃ 2.31 6H, s , 2.50 2H, t , 3.54 3H, s , 4.07 4H, t , 5.95 1H, s , 5.23 1H, s , 7.92 2H, dd 2 4 p fluorobenzoyl 1 piperidyl ethyl methyl 2,6 dimethyl 4 o chlorophenyl 1,4 dihydropyridine 3,5 dicarboxylate NMR CDCl₃ 2.33 3H, s , 2.58 3H, s , 2.50 2H, t , 3.58 3H, s , 4.05 2H, t , 5.40 1H, s , 5.28 1H, s , 7.96 2H, dd 2 4 p fluorobenzoyl 1 piperidyl ethyl methyl 2,6 dimethyl 4 o bromophenyl 1,4 dihydropyridine 3,5 dicarboxylate NMR CDCl₃ 2.32 3H, s , 2.35 3H, s , 2.60 2H, t , 3.62 3H, 2 , 4.20 2H, t , 5.57 1H, s , 5.35 1H, s , 7.96 2H, dd 2 4 p fluorobenzoyl 1 piperidyl ethyl methyl 2,6 dimethyl 4 p chlorophenyl 1,4 dihydropyridine 3,5 dicarboxylate NMR CDCl₃ 2.30 3H, s , 2.34 3H, s , 2.58 2H, t , 3.62 3H, s , 4.17 2H, t , 5.77 1H, s , 4.97 1H, s , 7.95 2H, dd 2 4 p fluorobenzoyl 1 piperidyl ethyl methyl 2,6 dimethyl 4 o,p dichlorophenyl 1,4 dihydro pyridine 3,5 dicarboxylate NMR CDCl₃ 2.30 6H, s , 2.58 2H, t , 3.60 3H, s , 4.13 2H, t , 5.62 1H, s , 5.32 1H, s , 7.96 2H, dd 2 4 p fluorobenzoyl 1 piperidyl ethyl methyl 2,6 dimethyl 4 2 chloro 5 nitrophenyl 1,4 dihydropyridine 3,5 dicarboxylate NMR CDCl₃ 2.40 6H, s , 2.65 2H, t , 3.67 3H, s , 4.23 2H, t , 6.70 1H, s , 5.52 1H, s , 7.94 2H, dd 2 4 p fluorobenzoyl 1 piperidyl ethyl methyl 2,6 dimethyl 4 2 , 6 dichlorophenyl 1,4 dihydro pyridine 3,5 dicarboxylate NMR CDCl₃ 2.10 6H, s , 2.52 2H, t , 3.52 3H, s , 4.12 2H, t , 6.31 1H, s , 5.91 1H, s , 7.96 2H, dd 2 4 p fluorobenzoyl 1 piperidyl ethyl methyl 2,6 dimethyl 4 m chlorophenyl 1,4 dihydropyridine 3,5 dicarboxylate NMR CDCl₃ 2.34 3H, s , 2.36 3H, s , 2.61 2H, t , 3.65 3H, s , 4.21 2H, t , 5.77 1H, s , 5.00 1H, s , 7.97 2H, dd 2 4 p fluorobenzoyl 1 piperidyl ethyl methyl 2,6 dimethyl 4 o cyanophenyl 1,4 dihydropyridine 3,4 dicarboxylate NMR CDCl₃ 2.37 3H, s , 2.39 3H, s , 2.64 2H, t , 3.65 3H, s , 4.21 2H, t , 6.76 1H, s , 5.34 1H, s , 7.98 2H, dd 2 4 p fluorobenzoyl 1 piperidyl ethyl methyl 2,6 dimethyl 4 naphthyl 1,4 dihydropyridine 3,5 dicarboxylate NMR CDCl₃ 2.27 3H, s , 2.34 3H, s , 2.67 2H, t , 3.44 3H, s , 4.03 2H, t , 6.62 1H, s , 5.83 1H, s , 7.95 2H, dd 2 4 p fluorobenzoyl 1 piperidyl ethyl methyl 2,6 dimethyl 4 3 pyridyl 1,4 dihydropyridine 3,5 dicarboxylate NMR CDCl₃ 2.36 3H, s , 2.39 3H, s , 2.62 2H, t , 3.64 3H, s , 4.19 2H, t , 6.72 1H, s , 5.04 1H, s , 7.98 2H, dd 2 4 p fluorobenzoyl 1 piperidyl ethyl methyl 2,6 dimethyl 4 2 chloro 4 ,5 methylenedioxyphenyl 1,4 dihydropyridine 3,5 dicarboxylate NMR CDCl₃ 2.29 6H, s , 2.68 2H, t , 3.64 3H, s , 4,30 2H, t , 6.45 1H, s , 5.89 1H, s , 7.99 2H, dd 2 4 p fluorobenzoyl 1 piperidyl ethyl methyl 2,6 dimethyl 4 m nitro p chlorophenyl 1,4 dihydro pyridine 3,5 dicarboxylate NMR CDCl₃ 2.36 3H, s , 2.38 3H, s , 2.60 2H, t , 3.66 3H, s , 4.19 2H, t , 5.95 1H, s , 5.03 1H, s , 7.98 2H, dd 2 4 p fluorobenzoyl 1 piperidyl ethyl methyl 2,6 dimethyl 4 2 furyl 1,4 dihydropyridine 3,5 dicarboxylate NMR CDCl₃ 2.25 6H, s , 2.67 2H, t , 3.66 3H, s , 4.30 2H, t , 6.00 1H, s , 5.05 1H, s , 7.96 2H, dd 2 4 p fluorobenzoyl 1 piperidyl ethyl methyl 2,6 dimethyl 4 3 indolyl 1,4 dihydropyridine 3,5 dicarboxylate NMR CDCl₃ 2.30 3H, s , 2.34 3H, s , 2.57 2H, t , 3.61 3H, s , 4.14 2H, t , 6.12 1H, s , 5.34 1H, s , 7.92 2H, dd 2 4 hydroxy p fluorophenylmethyl 1 piperidyl ethyl ethyl 2,6 dimethyl 4 m chlorophenyl 1,4 dihydropyridine 3,5 dicarboxylate NMR CDCl₃ 2.30 6H, s , 2.54 2H, t , 5.78 1H, s , 5.36 1H, s , 4.33 1H, d , 1.19 3H, t 2 methyl 3 methoxycarbonyl 4 m nitrophenyl 5 ethoxycarbonyl 6 4 p fluorobenzoyl 1 piperidyl methyl 1,4 dihydropyridine NMR CDCl₃ 2.29 3H, s , 2.35 3H, s , 2.58 2H, t , 4.17 2H, t , 5.81 1H, s , 5.85 1H, s , 7.95 2H, dd The following compounds were synthesized according to the same procedure as the one described in Example 3 or 4. The NMR spectrum of each compound CDCl₃ will also be shown below. 2 4 p fluorobenzoyl 1 piperidyl ethyl ethyl 2,6 dimethyl 4 2 ,3 dichlorophenyl 1,4 dihydro pyridine 3,5 dicarboxylate NMR CDCl₃ 2.29 3H, s , 2.31 3H, s , 2.58 2H, t , 5.92 1H, s , 5.47 1H, s , 7.98 2H, dd 1.18 3H, t 2 4 p fluorobenzoyl 1 piperidyl ethyl ethyl 2,6 dimethyl 4 o chlorophenyl 1,4 dihydropyridine 3,5 dicarboxylate NMR CDCl₃ 2.33 6H, s , 2.62 2H, t , 5.82 1H, s , 5.40 1H, s , 7.96 2H, dd , 1.20 3H, t 2 4 p fluorobenzoyl 1 piperidyl ethyl methyl 2,6 dimethyl 4 o fluorophenyl 1,4 dihydropyridine 3,5 dicarboxylate NMR CDCl₃ 2.30 3H, s , 2.32 3H, s , 3.66 3H, s , 4.30 2H, t , 5.45 1H, t , 5.89 1H, s , 7.96 2H, dd The following compounds were synthesized according to the same procedure as the one described in Example 5. The NMR spectrum of each compound CDCl₃ will also be shown below. 2 4 p fluorobenzoyl 1 piperidyl ethyl 2 4 p fluorobenzoyl 1 piperidyl ethyl 2,6 dimethyl 4 m nitrophenyl 1,4 dihydropyridine 3,5 dicarboxylate NMR CDCl₃ 2.38 6H, s , 2.58 4H, t , 4.18 4H, t , 6.30 1H, s , 5.07 1H, s , 7.8 8.1 4H, m , 2 methyl 3 2 4 p fluorobenzoyl 1 piperidyl ethoxycarbonyl 4 m nitrophenyl 5 1H, 4H, 6H, 7H, 8H pentahydroquinolinone NMR CDCl₃ 3.39 3H, s , 9.56 1H, s , 5.02 1H, s , 7.99 2H, dd 2 4 p fluorobenzoyl 1 piperidyl ethyl 2 methoxyethyl 2,6 dimethyl 4 m nitrophenyl 3,5 dicarboxylate NMR CDCl₃ 2.37 3H, s , 2.39 3H, s , 2.61 2H, t , 6.03 1H, s , 5.14 1H, s , 7.99 2H, dd , 3.36 1H, s