# 3 OXO 2 AZABICYCLOHEXANE DERIVATIVES, PROCESS FOR THE PRODUCTION THEREOF AND USE OF SAID DERIVATIVES AS INTERMEDIATES FOR ANTIBACTERIAL AGENTS

## Claims
Patentansprüche für folgende Vertragsstaaten BE, CH, DE, FR, GB, IT, LI, NL, SE

## Description
The present invention relates to novel compounds useful as intermediates for antibacterial agents. 4 Substituted azetidin 2 ones are hitherto known as important intermediates for carbapenem antibacterial agents, as are shown in, e.g., In the carbapenem skeleton, the following two isomers are present Of these, carbapenem derivatives having the β configuration exhibit much higher antibacterial activity and carbapenem antibacterial agents including thienamycin which are presently under development all have this configuration. Therefore, compounds having a configuration capable of leading to carbapenems of this β configuration are desired as intermediates from a viewpoint of synthesis, however, it was difficult to obtain only 4 substituted azetidin 2 one derivatives having a specific configuration in a simple manner and high yield. The present inventors have found that when the compounds of the present invention are used, 4 substituted azetidin 2 one derivatives having its specific configuration can easily be obtained and, have accomplished the present invention. Accordingly, an object of the present invention is to provide novel 3 oxo 2 azabicyclohexane derivatives having optical activity useful as intermediates for antibacterial agents and a process for production thereof. Subject matter of the present invention are 3 oxo 2 azabicyclohexane derivatives according to claim 1. Preferred embodiments thereof are subject matter of claims 2 to 5. Further subject matter is a process according to claims 6 and 7 for preparing these compounds, and the use of these compounds as intermediates for the preparation of antibacterial agents. The compounds of the present invention are 3 oxo 2 azabicyclohexane derivatives represented by general formula wherein R₁ represents an optically active menthoxy group or an optically active 1 phenylethoxy group when R₂ and R₃ form a binding bond when R₃ is a hydrogen atom, R₁ and R₂ are combined to complete an oxo group. Examples of the optically active menthoxy group of R₁ in the general formula described above include ℓ menthoxy group 1R,2S,5R menthoxy group , d menthoxy group 1S,2R,5S menthoxy group , 1S,2S,5R menthoxy group, 1R,2R,5S menthoxy group, etc. Further the optically active 1 phenylethoxy group represents R 1 phenylethoxy group or S 1 phenylethoxy group. The compounds of the present invention can be prepared by the following method. wherein X represents a nitro group or a halogen atom, R ₁ represents an optically active menthoxy group or an optically active 1 phenylethoxy group. As the optically active menthoxy group and optically active 1 phenylethoxy group shown by R ₁ groups similar to those shown for R₁ described above can be listed. Examples of the halogen atom shown by X includes a chlorine atom, a bromine atom, etc. The compound of general formula III can be obtained by reacting R ₁ H with the compound of general formula II . For example, ℓ menthol, d menthol, R 1 phenylethanol, S 1 phenylethanol, etc. are reacted with strong bases such as sodium hydride, potassium hydride, etc. to form alcoholates and then the alcoholates are reacted with the compound of general formula II to yield the compound of general formula III . In this reaction, non protonic polar solvents, for example, hexamethyltriamide phosphate, etc. can be used as solvents. The compound of general formula V can be obtained by reacting acid anhydrides such as acetic anhydride, etc. with the compound of general formula III and then hydrolyzing the reaction product. Further, the compound of general formula V can also be obtained by reacting the compound of formula IV with R ₁ H. For example, the compound of formula IV is reacted with ℓ menthol, d menthol, R 1 phenylethanol, S 1 phenylethanol, etc. in the presence of triaryl phosphines such as triphenyl phosphine, etc., or trialkyl phosphines such as tri n butyl phosphine, etc. and azodicarboxylic acid esters such as diethyl azodicarboxylate, etc. to yield the compound of general formula V . By exposing the compound of general formula V to light, the compounds of general formula I 1 and the compound of general formula VI can be obtained. It is appropriate to use a light having a wavelength of 280 nm to 330 nm. As solvents, those having no absorption in this wavelength region are preferred. Preferred examples of the solvents include methanol, ethanol, ethyl ether, acetonitrile, toluene, benzene and a mixture thereof. Both isomers shown by general formula I 1 and general formula VI can easily be separated from each other by utilizing the difference in solubility in solvents such as n pentane. Further, the isomers can also be separated by means of liquid chromatography or silica gel chromatography. The compound of formula I 2 can be obtained by hydrolyzing the compound of general formula I 1 with an acid. As the acid, mention may be made of hydrochloric acid, p toluenesulfonic acid, trifluoroacetic acid, acidic ion exchange resin, etc. As the solvent, mention may be made of dioxane, ethyl ether, tetrahydrofuran, a mixture thereof or a mixture of these solvents with water. Using the compounds of the present invention, 4 substituted azetidin 2 one derivatives can be prepared by the following method. wherein R ₁ has the same significances as defined above, R₄ represents an ester residue and R ₁ is a lower alkanoyloxy group, e.g. an acetoxy group, a propionyloxy group, an n butyryloxy group, an i butyryloxy group, a valeryloxy group, an i valeryloxy group, a pivaloyloxy group, etc. A series of reactions from the compound of general formula I 1 to the compound of general formula I 4 are The compound of formula I 3 can be obtained by reducing the compound of formula I 2 . As a reducing agent, sodium borocyanohydride, etc. can be used. The compound of general formula I 4 can be obtained by acylating the compound of formula I 3 with carboxylic acids shown by R ₁ H or reactive derivatives thereof, for example, acid anhydrides, acid chlorides, etc. The 4 substituted azetidin 2 one derivatives shown by general formula VII can be obtained by reacting the compound of general formula I 2 with alcohols or thioalcohols, if necessary, in the presence of bases. Further, the compound of general formula VII can also be obtained, via the compound of general formula VIII reaction intermediate, unstable , by treating the compound of general formula I 3 or the compound of general formula I 4 with a base such as potassium carbonate, etc. and an oxidizing agent such as potassium permanganate, etc. and then reacting the reaction product with an alkyl halide. The 4 substituted azetidin 2 one derivatives of general formula IX can be obtained, via the compound of general formula VIII , by treating the compound of general formula I 3 or the compound of general formula I 4 with a base such as potassium carbonate, etc. and a reducing agent such as sodium boron hydride, etc. The compound of general formula VII and the compound of general formula IX are known compounds as intermediates for carbapenem compounds and, various carbapenem compounds can be obtained from these compounds by known methods, for example, methods described in the publications supra. Next, the present invention will be described in more detail with reference to the experiments and the examples below. A mixture of 2.52 g of 60 oily sodium hydride, 9.36 g of ℓ menthol and 60 ml of phosphoric hexamethyltriamide was stirred on an oil bath of about 80 C until evolution of hydrogen gas was discontinued. The solution was ice cooled and 8.4 g of 4 nitropyridine N oxide was added thereto. The mixture was stirred for 30 minutes under ice cooling and then at room temperature overnight. The solvent was removed by distillation under reduced pressure and the residue was dissolved in benzene. The soluble matter was subjected to silica gel column chromatography developing solvent methanol ethyl acetate 3 20, v v . The resulting pale brown oily product was passed through and purified by an alumina column 40 g, developing solvent chloroform to obtain 11.69 g of the product. Melting point 60 65 C In 100 ml of acetic anhydride, 5.18 g of the compound obtained in Experiment 1 was heated for 1 hour and a half under reflux. The reaction mixture was concentrated under reduced pressure. A saturated aqueous solution of hydrogen sodium carbonate was added to the remaining oily substance and the mixture was stirred in a water bath for 30 minutes to render the system weakly alkaline. The separated oily substance was extracted with chloroform and anhydrous magnesium sulfate was added to the extract to dry it. The solvent was then removed by distillation and the residue was washed with diethyl ether to obtain crude crystals. The crude crystals were recrystallized from acetone n hexane to obtain 3.27 g of the desired product as needles. Melting point 220 222 C To a mixture of 210 mg of 60 oily sodium hydride and 8 ml of phosphoric hexamethyltriamide was added 610 mg of S 1 phenylethanol. The mixture was stirred at room temperature for 2 hours. After the mixture was cooled with ice water, 700 mg of 4 nitropyridine N oxide was added thereto with stirring. The mixture was stirred for 30 minutes under ice cooling and then at room temperature overnight. The solvent was removed by distillation under reduced pressure and the residue was dissolved in benzene. The solution was purified by silica gel column chromatography 30 g, developing solvent methanol ethyl acetate 3 20, v v . After the resulting crystals were decolored in ethyl acetate with activated charcoal, the crystals were recrystallized from ethyl acetate to obtain 775 mg of the product as needles. Melting point 134 136 C In a manner similar to Experiment 3, the product was obtained as needles in a yield of 73 , from 4 nitropyridine N oxide and R 1 phenylethanol. Melting point 134 136 C A mixture of 280 mg of the compound obtained in Experiment 3 and 5 ml of acetic anhydride was heated for 1 hour under reflux. The reaction mixture was concentrated under reduced pressure. A saturated aqueous solution of hydrogen sodium carbonate was added to the residue. The mixture was stirred in an ice bath for 30 minutes. The reaction solution was extracted with chloroform and anhydrous magnesium sulfate was added to the extract to dry it. The solvent was then removed by distillation and the crystals obtained were recrystallized from ethyl acetate to obtain 160 mg of the product. Melting point 151 152 C In a manner similar to Experiment 5, the product was obtained in a yield of 61 , from the compound obtained in Experiment 4. Melting point 151 152 C In 3 ml of hexamethylphosphoramide was dissolved 630 mg of triphenylphosphine. To the solution was dropwise added 418 mg of diethyl azodicarboxylate under ice cooling. After the temperature was elevated to room temperature and the mixture was stirred for 10 minutes, a hexamethylphosphoramide solution of 222 mg of 4 hydroxy 2 pyridone and 312 mg of ℓ menthol was dropwise added thereto under ice cooling. The reaction mixture was dissolved in 30 ml of ethyl ether. After washing with water, anhydrous sodium sulfate was added thereto to dry it. The solvent was removed by distillation under reduced pressure and the resulting residue was purified by silica gel column chromatography developing solvent ethyl acetate methanol 3 1 to obtain 240 mg of the product as colorless needles. Melting point 212 214 C A solution of 1.0 g of the compound obtained in Experiment 2 in 500 ml of acetonitrile was irradiated with light longer than 300 nm for 4 hours and a half in an argon flow under ice cooling while stirring, using a high pressure mercury lamp of 400 W. The solvent was removed by distillation under reduced pressure and the residue was purified by silica gel column chromatography 5 g, developing solvent ethyl ether to obtain 0.99 g of crystals. The crystals were heated in 30 ml of n pentane for a short period of time and insoluble matters were taken by filtration. The insoluble matters were recrystallized from n hexane ethyl ether to obtain 455 mg of the product as needles. Melting point 136 137 C Melting point 90 91 C To a 2 ml tetrahydrofuran solution containing 19 mg of p toluenesulfonic acid monohydrate and 50 mg of water was added 124.5 mg of 1S,4R 5 ℓ Menthoxy 3 oxo 2 azabicyclo 2.2.0 hexa 5 ene obtained in Example 1. The mixture was stirred for 20 minutes at room temperature. In a small quantity of water was dissolved 8.4 mg of hydrogen sodium carbonate and the solution was added to the reaction mixture. After diluting with chloroform, anhydrous magnesium sulfate was added to dry it. The system was filtered and the filtrate was concentrated to dryness under reduced pressure to obtain crystals. After washing with a small quantity of n pentane, the crystals were dried in vacuum in a desicator. Then the crystals were recrystallized from ethyl acetate n hexane to obtain 36 mg of the product as needles. Melting point 93 95 C A solution of 100 mg of the compound obtained in Experiment 5 in 60 ml of acetonitrile was irradiated with light longer than 300 nm for 3 hours in an argon flow under cooling with ice water while stirring, using a high pressure mercury lamp of 100 W. The solvent was removed by distillation under reduced pressure and the resulting oily substance was subjected to medium pressure column chromatography developing solvent n hexane ethyl ether 1 1, v v using 12 g of silica gel to obtain 40 mg of the product as an oily substance. Infrared absorption spectrum cm ¹, chloroform Further in the column chromatography described above, crystals were obtained from eluting fractions subsequent to the compound described above. The crystals were recrystallized from ethyl ether n hexane to obtain 38 mg of the following compound as needles Melting point 88 89 C In a manner similar to Example 2, 54 mg of 1S,4R 5 S 1 phenylethoxy 3 oxo 2 azabicyclo 2.2.0 hexa 5 ene was hydrolyzed and recrystallized to obtain 19 mg of the product as needles. Melting point 95 96 C A solution of 400 mg of the compound obtained in Experiment 7 in 90 ml of ethyl ether was irradiated with light longer than 300 nm for 2 hours in an argon flow under cooling with ice water while stirring, using a high pressure mercury lamp of 400 W. The solvent was removed by distillation under reduced pressure and the residue was purified by silica gel column chromatography developing solvent n hexane ethyl acetate 4 1,v v to obtain 400 mg of crystals. The crystals were washed with n pentane. The n pentane soluble portion was concentrated to obtain 100 mg of the product as colorless crystals. Melting point 128 129 C Melting point 138 139 C 85.42 c 1.4, chloroform In 1.5 ml of tetrahydrofuran was dissolved 80 mg of the compound obtained in Example 2. Then 0.1 ml of acetic acid was added to the solution under ice cooling while stirring. Thereafter sodium cyanoborohydride was added to the mixture. The temperature was elevated to room temperature. After stirring for 3 hours, 2 ml of acetone was added and the mixture was stirred for 10 minutes. The mixture was allowed to stand overnight and then the reaction mixture was concentrated under reduced pressure. The residue was dissolved in a small quantity of methanol and the solution was purified by silica gel column chromatography developing solvent ethyl acetate methanol 20 1 to obtain 36 mg of the product as colorless crystals. Melting point 160 162 C recrystallized from acetone In 1 ml of acetic anhydride was suspended 17 mg of the compound obtained in Experiment 8, and 0.5 ml of pyridine was added to the suspension. After stirring for 1 hour, the reaction mixture was concentrated under reduced pressure. The crystalline residue was washed with n hexane and recrystallized from ethyl ether n hexane to obtain 13 mg of the product as colorless needles. Melting point 86 88 C The compound, 23.5 mg, obtained in Example 2 was heated together with 2 ml of absolute methanol under reflux. The reaction mixture was concentrated under reduced pressure and the residue was purified by silica gel column chromatography 2 g, developing solvent ethyl ether to obtain 27.3 mg of the product as crystals. Melting point 69 70 C