# NOVEL BAKER S YEAST AND PROCESS FOR MAKING BREAD

## Claims
Hefe zur Brotherstellung, die zur Gattung Saccharomyces cerevisiae gehört, nicht gärungsfähig für Saccharose ist, ungeeignet zum Abbau von Fructooligosaccharid ist und Eignung zum Herstellen von Brot besitzt.

## Description
The invention refers to a yeast which is used for making bread containing fructooligosaccharides. Fructooligosaccharide is a compound in which 1 to 3 or more molecules of fructose are β combined to fructose of the sucrose at the position of C₁ and C₂, and its chemical structure is as follows These fructooligosaccharides are widely distributed among higher plants, for example, asparagus, onion, Jerusalem artichoke, honey and the like. Recently methods for mass production of fructooligosaccharide from sucrose by means of microbial enzymes were established so physical and physiological properties of these fructooligosaccharides were widely examined. It was found that the fructooligosaccharide is a non digestive sugar and has excellent physiological effects such as selective growth factor of To produce such excellent physiological effects, said fructooligosaccharide is preferably ingested day after day. For that purpose, the fructooligosaccharide is appropriate to be mixed in a food which is habitually ingested everyday in diet, and the amount is considered as approximately 5 g per day. Among the typical foods suited for such conditions is bread. Although bread generally contains a large amount of sucrose in its dough, fructooligosaccharide can be used in place of all or a portion of this sucrose. However, as the baker s yeasts presently used for making bread are sucrose fermentable and have invertase activity, there is a problem in which the fructooligosaccharide added on purpose is decomposed by the invertase in vain. Then, though Sucrose nonfermentable type strains belonging to US PS 42 92 33 mentions a process for producing a leavened dough of cereal, shortening, leavening yeast and a yeast growth source rapid flavor producing yeasts are used as leavening yeasts, i.e. Candida lusitaniae plus Saccharomyces delbrueckii as a mixture. GB PS 21 5 338 describes a low calorie sweetener containing at least one oligosaccharide consisting of from one to four molecules of fructose bound to sucrose this low calorie sweetener is used in low calorie food. However, when e.g. bread is produced all different components and working steps contribute to taste and quality, and thus there will be typical taste features or some trend or tendency of taste with a particular kind or species of bread which is in compliance with the demand of the market i.e. it is the expectation of the customer to get a manifold choice, e.g. because of taste as mentioned and or compatibility etc. It is the object of the invention to provide a novel yeast for making bread which type of bread enriches the offer on the market. According to the invention this object is solved by the present claim 1, i.e. It has been considered that if the excellent property of the sucrose fermentable baker s yeast having suitability for making bread of the same To give the suitability for making bread to Sucrose nonfermentable laboratory strains having no suitability for making bread, these strains are crossed with a baker s yeast having suitability for making bread by means of mating or cell fusion, to make hybrid strains, and by the formation and isolation of their spores, spore cultures are obtained,among which those having sucrose nonfermentability are selected. Further, repeating crossing, spore isolation and selection between the sucrose nonfermentable spore cultures and the baker s yeast, as the occasion demands, sucrose nonfermentable spore cultures having genetic factors of excellent suitability for making bread are obtained. By crossing among the spore cultures thus obtained, hybrid strains having sucrose nonfermentability and suitability of making bread can be created. As an embodiment of the invention the following schema illustrates the creation of the yeast IL 1 FERM P 8 56 Spore culture NM 4s1 14 sucrose fermentable isolated from NM4 diploid a α , Spore culture of a baker s yeast HP2 commercially available Oriental yeast, tetraploid , was crossed to breed IB1. By formation of IB1 spores and isolation thereof, a large number of spore cultures were obtained, among which sucrose nonfermentable IB1 s64 was selected. This was in turn crossed with HT 42s35 derived from the baker s yeast commercially available Oriental yeast to breed IB3. A large number of spore cultures were obtained by formation of IB3 spore and isolation thereof, among which sucrose nonfermentable IB3 s24 was selected and crossed with a spore culture from NM4, NM4 s2 15, to breed IB6. By formation of IB6 spores and isolation thereof, a large number of spore cultures were obtained, among which sucrose nonfermentable IB6 s8 was selected and crossed with the above said IB3 s24 to breed a hybrid strain. This strain is sucrose nonfermentable Excellent growth in MY liquid medium Formed on potassium acetate agar medium Shape of ascospore globular The use of This invention is further illustrated by the following examples. Using Inoculating amount 100 g Inoculating amount 250 g After cultivation, the cells were harvested, washed with water, and dehydrated to make a compressed yeast. The Molasses used here is those in which sucrose is inversed by invertase. The The liquid fermentation force test is carried out with the Modified Wolf s fermenter Baker s Yeast Test of the Japan Yeast Industry Association . Each medium is based on the medium by Schultz et al., and adjusted to the following sugar concentration. The liquid fermentation ability is indicated by CO₂ gas produced at 30 C for 2 hours after addition of 5 mℓ of the yeast suspension containing 150 mg dry matter to 15 mℓ of medium . Medium by Schultz et al. Shultz, A.S., Atkin, L., Frey, C.N. Cereal, Chem., 22, 321 1945 . The test results are summarized in Table 1. The baking test is carried out according to the following conditions. The test results are shown in Table 1. As apparent from Table 1, the bread obtained after Baking Test is as excellent as the control. As a result of analysis of fructooligosaccharide, using a high performance liquid chromatography, the residual rate of fructooligosaccharides in the bread using On the other hand, in the bread using the commercially available baker s yeast, the fructooligosaccharide hardly remained. Using As a result of analysis of the obtained bun as above, the residual rate of the fructooligosaccharide was 94 .