# A METHOD OF PREPARING OMEGA LACTAMS, IN PARTICULAR CAPROLACTAM

## Abstract
A method of preparing ω lactams, in particular capro lactam, comprising a step of premixing cycloaliphatic acids having the formula

## Claims
1. A method of preparing ω lactams containing 5 to 14 carbon atoms, comprising the followin steps

## Description
This invention relates to a method of preparing ω lactams, in particular caprolactam, with improved yield and purity. It is known that caprolactam can be prepared by reacting cycloaliphatic compounds with a nitrosating agent in the presence of a dehydrating agent. US Patent 3,356,675 and Italian Patent Application 27018 A 79 disclose preparing caprolactams from cycloaliphatic compounds, including hexahydrobenzoic acid, by reacting them with nitrosyl acid sulphate in concentrated sulphuric acid or oleum, and utilizing oleum as the dehydrating agent. Italian Patent Application 27018 A 79 claims a process for preparing ω lactams containing 5 to 14 carbons in a multi stage reactor, implemented by racting a cycloaliphatic acid having the general formula According to the prior art, moisture is to be removed completely from the lactamization reaction medium to avoid the need to decrease the reaction rate and selectively below an acceptable minimum. It is, in fact, known that the reaction rate and selectivity can only be increased through the use of an appropriate dehydrating agent. Examples of cycloaliphatic acids which can be lactamized include hexahydrobenzoic acid, cyclododecanecarboxylic acid, etc. Hexahydrobenzoic acid, also referred to as cyclohexanecarboxylic acid, being preferred. As the nitrosating agent, any of the agents specified in US Patent 3,356,675 may be used. Nitrosyl sulphuric acid is preferred for the production of caprolactam. Known dehydrating agents are SO₃, chlorosulphonic acid, anhydride of chlorosulphonic acid, phosphoric anhydride, or even the very anhydride of hexahydrobenzoic acid, in which case, in calculating the molar ratios, one mole anhydride of hexahydrobenzoic acid is the equivalent of one mole SO₃ thus, for simplicity, reference will be made hereinafter to SO₃ equivalent moles, to specify either one mole SO₃ or one mole of some other anhydride serving the same anhydrifying function. The reaction temperature can vary in the range of 30 to 100 C, and in particular where hexahydrobenzoic acid is used, the reaction temperature would be preferably in the 60 to 90 C range. The reaction may be conducted in either discontinuous, semi continuous, or continuous stirred reactors. A continuous multi stage reactor would be preferred with hexahydrobenzoic acid, anyhow. Thermal regulation of the reaction which is markedly exo thermic may be effected by using, in the reaction system, a particular inert thermostating solvent which can remove reaction heat by absorption as evaporation heat, thereby constancy of the reaction temperature is achieved by boiling the thermostating solvent. Examples of thermostating solvents are cyclohexane, n eptane, n hexane, n pentane, chlorinated or fluorinated hydro carbons, nitrocompounds, etc. It is known to conduct the lactamization reaction in conformity with the following sequence of process steps The control parameters of this reaction are Molar ratios of load and temperature SO₃ S By operating in accordance with these prior methods, on an industrial scale, the following lactamization outputs are to be obtained, when expressed as kmoles of caprolactam yielded per kmole hexahydrobenzoic acid ηAEB . η Furthermore, the byproducts that forms when operating in accordance with prior methods are of four types Accordingly, it is an object of this invention to arrange for an improved caprolactam output. A further object of this invention is to arrange for decreased production of the strongly acidic byproducts i which form the outstanding proportion of all the byproducts formed. These and other objects are achieved by a method according to the invention, which comprises the following steps The molar ratio of dehydrating agent to nitrosating agent is preferably within the range of 0.7 to 1.1. The small amount of water which is added during the second reaction step is such that a by weight concentration of SO₃ equivalents is obtained which ranges from 2 to 10 of the reaction mass. That amount is preferably within the range of 5 to 6 where hexahydrobenzoic acid is used as the cycloaliphatic acid. The dehydrating agent is preferably oleum at a concentration in the 36 to 50 range, preferably in the 38 to 40 range where hexahydrobenzoic acid is used as the cycloaliphatic acid. These concentration levels are significantly higher than the oleum concentration employed with prior methods 30 to 37 . Furthermore, where hexahydrobenzoic acid is used as cyclo aliphatic acid, the molar ratio U would be preferably in the 0.4 to 0.6 range the temperature of the first and second reaction steps is preferably in the 60 to 80 C range. The small amount water which is added during the second reaction step may be in the form of an acqueous solution containing sulphuric acid and possibly ω lactams. The method of this invention is preferably conducted on a continuous basis through a plurality of consecutive stages which implement said first and second reaction steps. Preferably, said plural consecutive stages would be split in two serially arranged discrete reactors. The first of the reactors receives the nitrosating agent and completes the markedly exothermic part of the lactamization reaction. No nitrosating agent is preferably added through the last stages of the first reactor. The second of the reactors receives the small amount water and completes the low exothermic part of the reaction. The unreacted cycloaliphatic acid reclaiming step is carried out by hydrolysis with water of the product from the second reactor, that hydrolysis process being conducted at a temperature preferably in the 20 to 30 C range. The hydrolyzed product is separated into an acqueous phase containing ω lactams and an organic phase containing the unreacted cycloaliphatic acid and the thermostating solvent. The invention may be more clearly understood by making reference to the following non limitative examples and the accompanying illustrative drawings, where Throughout the charts AEB hexahydrobenzoic acid SP byproducts CL caprolactam ACCSH cyclohexanecarbonysulphuric acid Examples 1 6 have been conducted as semi continuous tests with only the nitrosylsulphuric acid solution being fed continuously on the system shown in Figure 1. The method steps are Examples 7 and 8 have been conducted as continuous tests on an industrial system depicted in Figure 2. The method several steps were as follows It may be seen from the tables that the invention affords a considerable reduction in the byproducts i and ii which form together nearly all of the byproducts yield. In particular, this invention allows the SO₃ concentration to be increased during the first reaction step this results in decreased byproducts iv , and decreased concentration of SO₃ in the second reaction step, which affords decreased byproducts i . As may be taken from the Tables, to that decrease in by products there corresponds an increased caprolactam yield.