# SEMICONDUCTOR MEMORY DEVICE

## Claims
Halbleiterspeicheranordnung, bestehend aus

## Description
The present invention generally relates to semiconductor memory devices and it s mode of operation, more particularly to a dynamic random access memory device DRAM comprising one transistor one capacitor type memory cells, in which device it is possible to reduce the power consumption. An example of a conventional semiconductor memory device generally comprises a memory cell array, a bit line charge up circuit, a sense amplifier circuit, an active restore circuit and a column select circuit with respect to a pair of bit lines. The pair of bit lines from the memory cell array are coupled to each of the bit line charge up circuit, the sense amplifier circuit, the active restore circuit and the column select circuit. The bit line charge up circuit is used to initially charge the bit lines to a power source voltage. A datum voltage is read out from a memory cell within the memory cell array by use of the sense amplifier circuit which senses and amplifies the voltage read out via the bit lines. Hence, a small difference in the potentials at the bit lines is amplified and supplied to the active restore circuit. However, there is an inevitable decrease in the potential when the voltage is read out from the memory cell array by use of the sense amplifier circuit, and the active restore circuit is used to compensate for this decrease in the potential by amplification. Out of a plurality of such amplified signals from a plurality of active restore circuits, the column select circuit selectively passes a signal obtained from one pair of bit lines and supplies this signal to an external data file, for example, via a data bus. However, a charge up current or a discharge current in the pair of bit lines can be described by the following equation and is considerably large. Accordingly, in order to reduce the power consumption, semiconductor memory devices have been recently proposed in which the initial charge up voltage is made less than or equal to one half the power source voltage. When the initial charge up voltage is one half the power source voltage, the charge up current becomes one half that of the conventional semiconductor memory device described before. In Electronics and Comm. in Japan , Vol. 65, No. 3 March 1982 , Silver Spring, USA, pages 85 92, a dynamic MOS RAM with a 1 2 V There the sense amplifier or latch with its cross coupled transistors becomes disconnected from the bit lines as well as from the memory circuit with its midpoint and its active restore circuit. The bit lines and the memory circuit remain connected with their memory cell. But as will be described later on in the specification in conjunction with the drawings, when the initial charge up voltage is reduced to less than or equal to one half the power source voltage and the active restore circuit of the conventional semiconductor memory device is used as it is, it is extremely difficult without fluctuations to increase the potentials at the bit lines from this reduced charge up voltage to a higher value. According to prior art the power consumption of the semiconductor memory device cannot be reduced considerably without introducing fluctuations on the operation of the semiconductor memory device. Accordingly, it is object of the present invention to provide a semiconductor memory device operating without fluctuations. The invention is defined in claim 1. A semiconductor memory device is provided which bit lines are initially charged up to a first voltage which is lower than a power source voltage and the bit lines are thereafter charged up to higher voltages. The power consumption is reduced because the bit lines are initially only charged up to the first voltage. Furthermore, although the bit lines are initially only charged up to the first voltage, it is possible to positively charge up the bit line to a voltage depending on a read out datum so that a normal operation of the semiconductor memory device is ensured. The semiconductor memory device here used comprises a memory cell array comprising memory cells, a plurality of pairs of bit lines which are coupled to the memory cells of the memory cell array, a first bit line charge up circuit coupled to one of the plurality of pairs of bit lines for initially charging up the one pair of bit lines from the memory cell array to a first voltage which is lower than a power source voltage used to drive the semiconductor memory device, an active restore circuit coupled to the one pair of bit lines and a switching circuit coupled to the one pair of bit lines for upon a signal disconnecting the one pair of bit lines into a first pair of bit line sections on the side of the memory cell array and a second pair of bit line sections on the side of the active restore circuit after the one pair of bit lines are initially charged up to the first voltage. The semiconductor memory device comprises a second bit line charge up circuit on the side of the active restore circuit for charging up the pair of bit line sections on the side of the active restore circuit to a second voltage which is higher than the first voltage and lower than a third voltage, wherein the two bit line charge up circuits are controlled independently by two different signals. After reconnection of the bit line sections the charge up of the bit line from the second voltage to the third voltage depending on the datum read out from the memory cell array can be performed at a high speed so that the semiconductor memory device is unaffected by a voltage fluctuation in the power source voltage. Other objects and the features of the present invention will be apparent from the following detailed description when read in conjunction with the accompanying drawings. First, description will be given with respect to the operation of an example of the conventional semiconductor memory device by referring to FIGS.1 and 2. As shown in FIG.1, the conventional semiconductor memory device generally comprises a memory cell array MA, a bit line charge up circuit comprising transistors Q1 and Q2, a sense amplifier circuit comprising transistors Q3 and Q4, an active restore circuit comprising transistors Q5, Q6, Q7, Q8, Q9, Q10, Q11 and Q12 and a column select circuit comprising transistors Q13 and Q14. A pair of bit lines BL and The conventional semiconductor memory device shown in FIG.1 employs the folded bit lines BL and When data are read out from the memory cell array MA by use of the sense amplifier circuit, there is an inevitable decrease in the potential. The active restore circuit is provided to compensate for this decrease in the potential by amplification. The data amplified in the active restore circuit are supplied to the column select circuit which selectively passes a datum related to one pair of bit lines. The data selectively passed by the column select circuit are transmitted through the data bus line DB, amplified and supplied to a data file not shown . In the conventional semiconductor memory device shown in FIG.1, the potential at a point P is Vcc and the bit lines BL and Accordingly, in order to reduce the power consumption of the semiconductor memory device,the above cited semiconductor memory device has been proposed in which the charge up voltage is made equal to one half the voltage Vcc. When the potential at the point P is Vcc 2 and the charge up voltage is Vcc 2, the charge up current becomes one half that of former conventional semiconductor memory devices. However, problems occur when the charge up voltage is made less than or equal to Vcc 2 and the active restore circuit shown in FIG.1 is used as it is. Such problems will now be described in conjunction with FIG.2. FIG.2 shows changes in the potentials with respect to time at various parts of the semiconductor memory device shown in FIG.1. In FIG.2, the designations used in FIG.1 are used to show the potentials at the various parts of the semiconductor memory device, and Vss denotes a ground voltage. The potential at the point P is Vcc 2. Before the read out is made from the memory cell array MA, the potentials at the signal lines BC and When the mode changes from a stand by or reset mode to an active mode in which the read out is made, the potentials at the signal lines BC and In this state, the potential at the signal line RS is increased so as to increase the potential at the node NO1 from Vcc 2 by the operation of the transistors Q9 and Q10. In actual practice, metal oxide semiconductor MOS diodes are used for the transistors Q9 and Q10. Normally, the potential at the bit line must be zero when the datum is 0 and Vcc when the datum is 1 . Hence, when the datum is 1 , the bit line BL must be charged up from Vcc 2 to Vcc. In order to charge up the bit line BL from Vcc 2 to Vcc, it is necessary to increase the potential at the node NO1 and turn the transistor Q7 ON. In this case, it is necessary to increase the potential at the node NO1 to Vcc Vr, where Vr denotes the threshold voltage of the transistor Q7. The potential at the line RS increases from Vss to Vcc, but the original potential at the node NO1 is Vcc 2. Accordingly, the potential at the node NO1 cannot be increased to Vcc Vr with ease. Generally, the capacitance added at the node NO1 must be small compared to the capacitance of the transistor Q9 which is actually a MOS diode. If the capacitance added at the node NO1 were large compared to the capacitance of the transistor Q9, the potential at the node NO1 will not reach a sufficiently large value even when the potential at the node NO1 is increased by the operation of the transistor Q9. Hence, in order to increase the potential at the node NO1 to the sufficiently large value, the capacitance and thus the size of the transistor Q9 that is, the MOS diode must be increased. However, since a plurality of active restore circuits are provided in accordance with the interval with which a plurality of pairs of bit lines are provided, it is impossible to relatively reduce the capacitance added at the node NO1 compared to the capacitance of the transistor Q9 by adding a large capacitance. Furthermore, when the large capacitance is added, the load becomes excessively large and a large voltage will be required to increase the potential at the node NO1. For these reasons, it is found extremely difficult to increase the potential at the node NO1 or NO2 to over Vcc Vr and charge up the bit line BL or Accordingly, the semiconductor memory device and it s operation according to the present invention is designed so that the bit lines are initially charged up to a first voltage which is lower than Vcc but it is possible to thereafter charge up the bit lines to a second voltage which is higher than the first voltage and then to a third voltage which third voltage depending on the read out datum, thereby making it possible to reduce the power consumption of the semiconductor memory device without introducing undesirable effects on the operation of the semiconductor memory device. FIG.3 is a circuit diagram showing an essential part of an embodiment of the semiconductor memory device according to the present invention. In FIG.3, those parts which are the same as those corresponding parts in FIG.1 are designated by the same reference numerals, and description thereof will be omitted. The semiconductor memory device shown in FIG.3 differs from the semiconductor memory device shown in FIG.1 in that a switching circuit comprising transfer gate transistors Q15 and Q16 and a bit line charge up circuit hereinafter referred to as a second bit line charge up circuit comprising transistors Q17 and Q18 are additionally provided. The switching circuit is provided between the sense amplifier circuit comprising the transistors Q3 and Q4 and the active restore circuit comprising the transistors Q5 through Q12. The switching circuit separates the pair of bit lines into bit line sections BL and Description will now be given with respect to the present invention by referring to FIGS.3, 4A and 4B. FIGS.4A and 4B show changes in the potentials with respect to time at various parts of the semiconductor memory device shown in FIG.3 for explaining the operation of the present invention. In FIGS.4A and 4B, the designations used in FIG.3 are used to show the potentials at the various parts of the semiconductor memory device, and Vss denotes the ground voltage. FIG.4A shows the changes in the potentials at circuit parts on the side of the memory cell array MA, and FIG.4B shows the changes in the potentials at circuit parts on the side of the active restore circuit. In the stand by mode, different potentials at the signal lines BC1 and BC2 are applied, i.e BC1 is increased to Vcc. The bit line sections BL and Later on the potential at the word line WL is increased, a datum read out from the memory cell within the memory cell array MA is obtained at the bit line sections BL and When the potential at the signal line BT is increased after the sense amplifier circuit operates, the potential at the bit line section The potential Vcc Vr obtainable at the node NO1 is considerably high compared to the potential Vcc 2 obtainable in the conventional semiconductor memory device shown in FIG.1. Due to this high potential at the node NO1, it is possible to charge up the bit line which is high at a high speed when the potential at the signal line RS is increased from Vss to Vcc. The semiconductor memory device is initially charged up to a first voltage which is lower than the power source voltage. Hence, the required charge up current is small and the power consumption can be reduced effectively. Furthermore, after the semiconductor memory device is initially charged up, only the bit lines are charged up to a third voltage which is much higher than the first voltage so that the semiconductor memory device can operate normally. The bit line is charges up to the third voltage from a second voltage which is higher than the first voltage and is lower than the third voltage, so that it is possible to positively charge up the bit line to the third voltage. For example, the first voltage is less than or equal to Vcc 2, the second voltage is equal to Vcc Vr and the third voltage is equal to Vcc. As disclosed different signals are applied to the signal lines BC1 and BC2, by referring to FIGS.3, 4A and 4B. As mentioned FIG.4A shows the changes in the potentials at circuit parts on the side of the memory cell array MA, and FIG.4B shows the changes in the potentials at circuit parts on the side of the active restore circuit. On the side of the active restore circuit, the potentials at the signal lines BT and When the mode of the semiconductor memory device changes to the active mode, the potential at the signal line BC1 decreases and the potential at the word line WL increases to obtain the datum via the bit lines. The read out datum is sensed and amplified in the sense amplifier circuit. At the same time, however, the potential at the signal line BT is decreased and the potential at the signal line BC2 is increased while the read out datum is amplified in the sense amplifier circuit. The potentials at the bit line sections BL1 and Now the potentials at the signal line According to the invention, it is possible to obtain the charge up of the bit line to the power source voltage depending on the read out datum at a high speed. The invention is advantageous in that the semiconductor memory device is less affected by a voltage fluctuation in the power source voltage. In other words, the potentials at the signal lines BC1 and BC2 don t fluctuate although there may be a voltage fluctuation in the power source voltage. Generally, the tolerance of the voltage fluctuation in the power source voltage is in the order of 5 volts 10 in the case of the semiconductor memory device. When it is assumed that the power source voltage changes from 5.5 volts to 4.5 volts , a similar change occurs in the potentials at the signal lines BC1 and BC2. On the other hand, the potentials at the nodes NO1 and NO2 and the bit line sections BL1 and However, according to the invention, the charge up time required to charge up the bit line sections BL1 and Further, the present invention is not limited to this embodiment, but various variations and modifications may be made without departing from the scope of the present invention.