# Process for production of somatostatin.

## Abstract
Process for preparing somatostatin comprising culturing a microorganism containing therein in recombinant plasmid including a trp promoter, a structural gene coding for the amino acid sequence of a fused protein comprising an additional protein and somatostatin, and one or more termination codon s , wherein the additional protein is protein peptide LH joined to a peptide derived from a linker and includes a selective cleavage site of methionine adjacent to the N terminal amino acid sequence of somatostatin, and the recited elements are sequenced in order as mentioned above, and subjecting said fused protein to an elimination reaction of said additional protein. The invention also covers a recombinant plasmid, a microorganism and a fused protein useful in such process.

## Claims
What we claim is 1. A process for preparing somatostatin, characterized in that it comprises a culturing a microorganism containing therein a recombinant plasmid including a trp promoter, a structural gene coding for the amino acid sequence of a fused protein comprising an additional protein and somatostatin, and one or more termination codon s , wherein the additional protein is protein peptide LH joined to a peptide derived from a linker and includes a selective cleavage site of methionine adjacent to theN terminal amino acid sequence of somatostatin, and the recited elements are sequenced in order as mentioned above, b isolating said fused protein from culture broth, and c subjecting said fused protein to an elimination reaction of said additional protein to give somatostatin. 2. A recombinant plasmid including a trp promoter, a structural gene coding for the amino acid sequence of a fused protein comprising an additional protein and somatostatin, and one or more termination codon s , wherein the additional protein is protein peptide LH joined to a peptide derived from a linker and includes a selective cleavage site of methionine adjacent to theN terminal amino acid sequence of somatostatin, and the recited elements are sequenced in order as mentioned above. 3. A microorganism containing a recombinant plasmid s including a trp promoter, a structural gene coding for the amino acid sequence of a fused protein comprising an additional protein and somatostatin, and one or more termination codon s , wherein the additional protein is protein peptide LH joined to a peptide derived from a linker and includes a selective cleavage site of. methionine adjacent to the N terminal amino acid sequence of somatostatin, and the recited elements are sequenced in order as mentioned above. 4. A fused protein comprising additional protein and somatostatin wherein additional protein is protein peptide LH jointed to a peptide derived from a linker. 5. A fused protein of Claim 4, which has a following amino acid sequence 1 10 Met Cys Tyr Cys Gln Asp Pro Tyr Val Lys Glu Ala 20Glu Asn Leu Lys Lys Tyr Phe Asn Ala Gly His Ser Asp 30 Val Ala Asp Asn Gly Thr Leu Phe Leu Gly I le Leu Lys 40 50Asn Trp Lys Glu Glu Ser Asp Arg Lys Ile Met Gln Ser 60 Gln Ile Val Ser Phe yr Phe Lys Leu Glu Val Lys His 70Glu Phe Met Ala Gly Cys Lys Asn Phe Phe Trp Lys Thr 80 Phe Thr Ser Cys

## Description
PROCESS FOR PRODUCTION OF SOMATOSTATIN This invention relates to a process for a microbial production of somatostatin, to a fused protein comprising somatostatin and additional protein, to a recombinant plasmid including a trp promoter and a structural gene coding for the fused protein and to a host microorganism containing the recombinant plasmid. Somatostatin, which is an object polypeptide having an amino acid sequence as shown below, is known to be useful as a medicament for the treatment of peptic ulcer. Somatostatin is also known to inhibit the secretion of a number of hormones including growth hormone, glucagon and insulin, and accordingly is expected to be useful as a medicament for the treatment of acromegaly and insulin dependent diabetes. Somatostatin Ala Gly Cys Lys Asn Phe Phe Trp Lys Thr Phe Thr Ser Cys While the recombinant DNA technique has been applied to produce useful polypeptides including somatostatin, there is a continuing need for a production of the object polypeptide in high yield. In fact, US Patent No. 4,425,437 discloses a process for producing somatostatin, in which somatostatin can be produced by cleaving a fused protein of somatostatin and B galactosidase which is produced by a recombinant DNA technique. According to the invention, somatostatin is produced in high yield by employing a new recombinant plasmid characterized in that it includes trp promoter, a structural gene coding for the amino acid sequence of a fused protein comprising an additional protein and somatostatin, and one or more termination codon s , wherein the additional protein is protein peptide LH joined to a peptide derived from a linker and includes a selective cleavage site of methionine adjacent to the N terminal amino acid sequence of somatostatin and the recited elements are sequenced as mentioned above. This recombinant plasmid is transformed into a suitable microorganism, the growth and proliferation of which results in the production of a fused protein comprising an additional protein and somatostatin wherein the additional protein is protein peptide LH joined to a peptide derived from a linker and includes a selective cleavage site of methionine adjacent to the N terminal amino acid sequence of somatostatin.The fused protein thus obtained is converted to the object polypeptide of somatostatin by subjecting the former to an elimination reaction of the additional protein which is removed at a cleavage site of methionine adjacent to the N terminal amino acid sequence of somatostatin. The terms, as used hereinabove and below, have the following meaning unless expressly stated to the contrary. Suitable trp promoter gene may include the gene as derived from the promoter operator region ofEscherichia coli hereinafter referred to as E. coli , the DNA sequence of which is known G.N. Bennett et al., J. Mol. Biol. 121, 113 1978 and represented inFig. 1, and the one including at least promoter region and SD sequence also known as ribosome binding site . Preferable example of trp promoter gene may include the gene of the promoter operator region from residues 79 to 22 together with oligonucleotides, which are attached at each of 5 and 3 ends of said gene to create appropriate cohesive termini for restriction endonucleases such as EcoRI, EcoRI ,HindIII, BamHI or the like. Most preferable, trp promoter gene is the gene of the promoter operator region from residue 79 to 22, to which EcoRI site is attached at 5 end andEcoRI site is attached at 3 end, and the DNA sequence of trp promoter gene is the one as shown in Fig. 2. Fused protein is the one comprising an additional protein and somatostatin is produced by the expression of the structural gene coding for the amino acid sequence of the fused protein in a host microorganism. Suitable additional protein , which is easily removed from the fused protein to release somatostatin, may be protein peptide SH joined to a peptide derived from a linker, and may be a selective cleavage site of methionine adjacent to the N terminal amino acid sequence of somatostatin, greatly enhancing a stability and easiness of the purification of somatostatin. The amino acid sequence of protein peptide LH is shown in Fig. 3, and preferable example of the DNA sequence of the gene coding for protein peptide LE is also shown therein. Thus, between protein peptide LH and somatostatin in the fused protein, there exists a peptide derived from a linker, which is introduced so as to facilitate insertion of a structural gene coding for protein peptide LH and somatostatin into a appropriate site on a plasmid. Suitable linker oligonucleotide may include the one having 10 30 base pairs and cohesive termini for the restriction endonucleases such as EcoRI, HindIII,BamHI or the like. Preferable example of the DNA sequence of the linker is shown in Fig. 4. Preferable example of the DNA sequence of the gene coding for somatostatin is shown in Fig. 5. Preferable example of the amino acid sequence of the fused protein is shown in Fig. 6. Suitable termination codon s may include TAG,TAA and TGA, which lie downstream the DNA sequence of somatostatin as shown in Fig. 5. Suitable plasmid may include the one derived from microorganisms as conventionally used, such as pBR322, pBR325, pBR328 and the like. Suitable microorganism which is transformed with the recombinant plasmid may include bacteria such as E. coli and the like. The present invention are explained in more detail by referring to the attached Figures 1 12 as follows. 1 DNA sequence of the elements as included in the plasmid and amino acid sequence of the peptide as expressed are shown in Figures 1 to 6.Fig. 1 Schematic structure of the gene of trp promoter operator region of E. coli Base pairs are numbered from the trp m RNA transcription initiation site designated 1.Restriction endonuclease cleavage sites and the region for promoter region and SD sequence are as shown.Fig. 2 DNA sequence of the most preferable trp promoter of the present invention Fourteen oligonucleotides are labelled A throughN. Base pairs are numbered as mentioned above.Fig. 3 Amino acid sequence of the protein peptideLH The DNA sequence of the gene coding for the protein peptide LH is also indicated as a preferable example.Fig. 4 DNA sequence of the most preferable linker The corresponding amino acid sequence is also indicated. Fig. 5 Schematic structure of the gene coding for somatostatin Eight oligonucleotides are labelled SA through SR. Stopn means the termination codons.Fig. 6 Amino acid sequence of the fused protein 2 Methods of synthesis and cloning of the genes of each element are shown in Figures 7 and 8.Fig. 7 Flow chart for construction of the trp promoter gene joined to somatostatin gene The oligonucleotides are annealed and ligated in a series of steps, in order to minimize the possibilities for undesirable interactions as shown inFig. 7. An oligonucleotide is illustrated with means 5 phosphorylated end . Ligation is conducted in the presence of T4 DNA ligase. The oligonucleotides B, C, D, E and F are annealed and ligated to form Block I . The otherBlocks II IV are also obtained by ligation of G through SG as shown . The oligonucleotide A is ligated with Block I to give Block V and the oligonucleotide SH is ligated with Block IV to give Block VI . Thus obtained Block II lilT, V and VI are again treated with T4 DNA ligase and the resulting product is digested with EcoRI and BamHI to give the trp promoter gene joined to somatostatin gene.Fig. 8 Flow chart for construction of plasmid pTrpEB7 The synthetic trp promoter gene joined to somatostatin gene is inserted into the pBR322 plasmid, previously treated with EcoRI and BamHI restriction endonucleases. The resulting plasmid is transformed into a suitable microorganism such as E. coli HB1 01. Selection of the transformants for resistance to antibiotics results in the isolation of the plasmid carrying the trp promoter gene joined to somatostatin gene, which is designated as pTrpEB7. 3 Methods of synthesis and cloning of a gene fragment containing protein peptide LH gene are shown in Figures 9 and 10.Fig. 9 Flow chart for construction of a gene fragment containing protein peptide LH gene The process for construction is designed to form a gene fragment containing protein peptide LH gene between EcoRI and HindiII restriction sites in the resulting gene. The explanation as given for Fig. 7 can be referred to.Fig. 10 Flow chart for molecular cloning of the gene fragment containing protein peptide LH gene The gene fragment containing protein peptide LH gene with EcoRI and BamHI termini is inserted into pBR322 plasmid, previously treated with the EcoRI andBamHI restriction endonucleases. The resulting plasmid is transformed into a suitable microorganism such as E. coli HB101. Selection of the transformants for resistance to antibiotics result in the isolation of the plasmid carrying the gene fragment containing protein peptideLH gene, which is designated as pLH107. The gene containing the protein peptide LH gene is obtained by the digestion of pLHl07 with the EcoRI and BamHI restriction endonucleases. 4 Processes for formation of somatostatin gene and construction of plasmid pLHtrp carrying the trp promoter gene and the gene fragment containing proteinLH gene are shown in Figure 11.Fig. 11 Flow chart for construction of somatostatin gene and plasmid pLHtrp 1 Somatostatin gene is obtained by the digestion of pTrpEB7 with the EcoRI and BamHI restriction endonucleases.2 The plasmid pTrpEB7 is treated with the EcoRI andBamHI restriction endonucleases and the largest fragment containing the trp promoter gene is ligated with the gene fragment containing protein peptide LH gene to give the plasmid pLHtrp.5 Processes for construction of plasmid pLBSStrp, which is an object recombinant plasmid of the present invention, are shown in Figure 12.Fig 12 Flow chart for construction of recombinant plasmid pLHSStrp Somatostatin gene with EcoRI and BamHI termini is attached to the linker oligonucleotides to form the gene including somatostatin gene with HindIII and BamHT termini for the insertion into a site of the same restriction specificity on a plasmid. The plasmid pLHtrp is treated with the Hindill and BamHI restriction endonucleases. The largest fragment containing the trp promoter gene and protein peptide LH gene is ligated with somatostatin gene attached to the linker oligonucleotide having HindIII and BamHI termini to form the plasmid pLHSStrp. 6 Process for transforming a microorganism with the recombinant plasmid, expressing the structural gene and producing somatostatin are explained as follows. For expression of somatostatin gene, thus obtained plasmid including the trp promoter gene, protein peptide LH gene and somatostatin gene is transformed into a host microorganism, and then the host microorganism including th recombinant plasmid is cultured in nutrient medium containing sources of assimilable carbon and nitrogen under aerobic conditions e.g. shaking culture, submerged culture, etc. . The fermentation is usually conducted at a temperature between about 200C and 420C, preferable 35 38 C, for a period of several hours to 50 hours. Thus produced fused protein comprising additional protein and somatostatin can be recovered from the cultured medium by conventional means which are commonly used for the recovery of other known biologically active substances. Thus obtained fused protein can be converted to somatostatin by elimination reaction of the additional protein. This elimination reaction can be conducted in accordance with a conventional method used in the field of peptide chemistry such as method of using cyanogen bromide or the like. This reaction is usually carried out under mild conditions in a conventional solvent which does not adversely affect the reaction. The reaction temperature is not critical and the reaction is usually carried out from cooling to warming. Abbreviations used herein are aB follows A and Ap as used in oligonucleotide sequence are adenine, T and Tp as used in oligonucleotide sequence are thymine, G and Gp as used in oligonucleotide sequence are guanine, and C and Cp as used in oligonucleotide sequence are cytosine. ABZpo is adenine wherein an amino and hydroxy po groups are protected by benzoyl and p chlorophenyl, respectively, Tpo is thymine wherein an hydroxy group is protecting by p chlorophenyl, GiB po is guanine wherein an amino and hydroxy groups are protected by isobutyryl and p chlorophenyl, respectively, CBZpo is cytosine wherein an amino and hydroxy groups are protected by benzoyl and p chlorophenyl, respectively, Ac is uracyl wherein an hydroxy group is protected by acetyl, and DMTr dimethoxytrityl. The following Preparations and Examples are given for the purpose of illustrating the present invention.Preparation 1Synthesis of HOGpGpTpTpGpTpApApGpApCpTpCpTOH SB which corresponds to the oligonucleotide as labelledSB in Fig. 7. 1 Synthesis of DMTrOTpoTpoCBzPoTpoACUpo cellulose Ac i Preparation of HTTpoAcUpo cellulose To a suspension of DMTrOTpoAcUpo cellulose 250.0 mg, 26.1 mole prepared by R. Crea s method1 in methanol chloroform 1 9 v v, 5.0 ml . Trichloroacetic acid chloroform 2 8 w v , 5.0 ml was added under ice cooling, and the mixture was stirred at OOC for 10 minutes. After being washed with chloroform 2 ml and methanol 6.0 ml , successively, on the filter, the cellulose adduct HOTpoAcUpo cellulose was dried, water being separated as the pyridine 2 ml azeotrope. This value was calculated by monitoring the absorbance of a washing solution with. chloroform at 507 nm. 1 R. Crea et al, Nucleic Acid Research 8, 2331 1980 ii Preparation of DMTrOTpoTpoCBzpo DMTrOTpoCBzpo CRE 223 mg was treated with triethylamine acetonitrile 1 1 v v, 5 ml at room temperature for 1 hour. The phosphodiester trimer DMTrOTpoTpoCBZpo so obtained was dried, water being separated as the pyridine azeotrope 0.5 ml, 2 x 1 mi . iii Coupling The trimer DMTrOTpoTpoCBzPo was mixed with the cellulose adduct HOTpoAcUpo cellulose in a 10 ml round bottom flask. The mixture was dried, water being separated as the pyridine azeotrope 2 x l ml and finally resuspended in anhydrous pyridine l ml .Mesitylen sulfonyl nitrotriazolide 193 mg, 652.5 mole was added to the suspension and the mixture was stirred at room temperature for 1 hour. And then pyridine was added to the reaction vessel and cellulose adduct was recovered by centrifugation 3,000 rpm, 2 minutes . iv Acetylation of unreacted 5 hydroxy groups The cellulose adduct obtained as above was suspended in a solution of pyridine acetic anhydride 10 1 v v, 5.5 ml and stirred at room temperature for 30 minutes. The cellulose product 258.4 mg was obtained by repeated centrifugation 3,000 rpm, 2 minutes in pyridine 5 ml , washing with methanol 15 ml and drying in vacuo at room temperature for 30 minutes. The cellulose adduct DMTrOTpoTpoCBzpoTpoAcUpo cellulose can use for the next coupling step. 2 synthesis of DMTrOABzpoABzpoTpoTpoCBzpoTpo AcUpo cellulose DMTrOABzPoABzpoTpoTpoCBzpoTpoAcUpo cellulose was synthesized fromDMTrOTpoTpoCBzpoTpoAcUpo cellulose 258.4 mg and DMTrOABzpoABzpoCBzPo CE 252 mg according to similat conditions as above. 3 Synthesis ofDMTrOABzpoABzpoGiBpoABzpoABzpoTpo TpoCBzpoTpoAcUpo Cellulose DMTrOABzpoABzpoGiBpoABzpoABzpoCBzpoTpoTpoCBzpoTpoACUpo cellulose 256.4 mg was synthetized from DMTrOABzpoABzpoCBzpoTpoTpoCBzpoTpoAcUpo cellulose 260.4 mg and DMTrOABzpoABzPoGiBpo CE 253 mg according to similar conditions. 4 Synthesis of DMTrOTpoGiBpoTpoABzpoGiBpo ABzpoApoCBzpoTpoTpoCBzpoTpoAcUpo cvellulose DMTrOTpoGiBpoTpoABzpoABzpoGiBpoABzpoCBzpoTpoTpoCBzpoTAcUpo cellulose 234.0 mg was synthesized from DMTrOABzpoABzpoGiBpoABzpoCBzPoTpoTpoCBzpoTpoAcUpo cellulose 256.4 mg and DMTrOTpoGiBpoTpo CE 224 mg according to similar conditions. 5 Synthesis of DMTrOGiBpoGiBpoTpoTpoGiBpoTpo ABzpoABzpoGiBpoABzpoCBzpoTpoTpoCBzpoTpo AcUpo cellulose DMTrOGiBpoGpoTpoTpoGiBpoTpoABzpoABzpoGiBpo ABzpoABzpoCBzpoTpoTpoCBzpoTpoAcUpo cellulose 224.0 mg was synthesized from DMTrOTpoGi poTpoA poA po GiBpoABzpoABzpoCpoTpoTpoCBzpoTpoACUpo Cellulose 234.0 mg and DMTrOGiBpoGiBpoTpo CE 236 mg under the similar conditions. At this final process, unreacted 5 hydroxy group was not necessary to protect with an acetyl group. 6 Synthesis of HOGpGpTpTpGpTpApApGpApApCpTpCpTOH DMTrOGiBpoGiBpoTpoTpoGiBpoTpoABzpoGiBpoABzpoABzpoCBzpoTpoTpoCBzpoTpoAcUpo cellulose 224.0 mg was treated with 0.5 M N,N,N ,N tetramethyl guanidinium pyridine 2 aldoximate in dioxane H2O 1 1 v v, 1 ml at 200C for 20 hours in a sealed tube. To the reaction mixture 28 w w aqueous ammonia 16 ml was added, and the mixture was heated at 600C for 5 hours. The solid cellulose was removed by filtration and washed with water 10 ml . The filtrate and washed solution were evaporated to dryness, and the residue was treated with 80 aqueous acetic acid 150 ml at room temperature for 15 minutes. After removal of the solvents, the residue was dissolved in 0.1 M triethylammonium carbonate buffer pH 7.5, 25 ml was washed with diethylether 3 x 25 ml .Aqueous layer was evaporated to dryness and the residue was dissolved in 0.1 M triethylammonium carbonate buffer pH 7.5, 2 ml to yield crudeHOGpGpTpTpGpApGpApApCpTpTpCpTOH in the solution. 7 Purification ofHOGpGpTpGpTpApApGpApApCpTpTpCpTOH i First purification of the crude product was performed by column chromatography on Biogel P2 column 24 x 2.6 cm, inner diameter, trademark made by Biolad . The fractions corresponding to the first eluted peak 50 mM ammonium acetate, 0.1 mM EDTA, 1 ml minute were collected and freeze dried to give the first purified product. ii The second purification of the first purified product was performed by high pressure liquid column chromatograpy hereinafter referred to as HPLC onCDR 10 column 25 cm x 4.6 mm, inner diameter, trademark made by Mitsubishi Chemical Industries Ltd. using a linear gradient of lM ammonium acetate 10 v v aqueous ethanol to 4.5 M ammonium acetate 10 v v aqueous ethanol 80 minutes, 1 ml minute, 600C to give the second purified product. iii The third purification of the second purified product was performed by reverse phase HPLC column Ep 18 5V x77 , 15 cm x 4mm, inner diameter, trademark made by Merck using a linear gradient of 0.1 M ammonium acetate to 0.1 M ammonium acetate 15 v v in aqueous acetonitrile 40 minutes, 1.5 ml minute, room temperature to give the final purified product HOGpGpTpTpGpTpApApGpApApCpTpTpCpTOH . 8 Analysis of oligonucleotide HOGpGpTpTpGpTpApApGpApApCpUpTpCpTOH i Digestion by phosphodiesterase The mixture of HOGpGpTpUpGpTpApApGpApApCpTpTpCpTOH 30 wg, 130 pal , 0.2 M magnesium chloride 45 l , 0.2 MTRIS hydrochloric acid pH 8.5 45 ul and 0.1 mMEDTA in an aqueous solution 170 p1 was treated with phosphodiesterase from Crotalus durissus 60 ug, 60 ul purchased from Boehringer Mannheim at 370C for 30 minutes, and then heated at 100 C for 2 minutes. ii Analysis by HPLC The oligonucleotide in the reaction mixture was analyzed by HPLC on CDR 10 using a linear gradient of water to 2.0 M ammonium acetate pH 3.4 40 minutes, 1.5 ml minute, 600C . From each peak area observed, its nucleotide composition was determined comparing with area of a standard sample. Calcd PCOH 2,000, pAQH 4,000, pToH 6,000, pGOH 3,000Observed PCOH 2,030, pAOH 4,257, pTOH 5,843, pGOH 2,871Preparation 2Synthesis of oligonucleotides SA, SC, SD, SE, SF, SG, and SH which correspond to the symbols of each oligonucleotide in Fig. 7 Following oligonucleotides were prepared by a similar manner to that of Preparation 1. 1 HOApApTpTpCpApTpGpGpCpTOH SA 2 HOTpTpTpGpGpApApGpApCpTpTpTOH SC 3 HOCpApCpTpTpCpGpTpGpTpTpGpapTpApGOH SD 4 ROTpTpApCpApApCpCpApGpCpCpApTpGOH SE 5 HOCpCpApApApApGpApApGpTpUpCOH SF 6 HOCpGpApApGpTpGpApApApGpTpCpTpTOH SG 7 HOGpApTpCpCpTpApTpCpApApCpAOH SH Preparation 3Synthesis of oligonucleotides A, B, C, D, E, F, G, H,I, J, K, L, M and N which correspond to the symbols of each oligonucleotide in Fig. 7 Following oligonucleotide were prepared by a similar manner to that of Preparation 1. 1 HOApApTpTpTpGpCpCpGpApCpAOH A 2 HOCpGpTpTpApTpGpApTpGpTpCpGpGpCpAOH B 3 HOTpCpApTpApApCpGpGpTpTpCpTpGpGpCOH C 4 HOGpApApTpApTpTpTpGpCpCpApGpApApCOH D 5 HOApApApUpApTpTpCpTpGpApApApTpGpAOH E 6 HOTpCpApApCpApGpCpTpCpApTpTpTpCpAOH F 7 HOGpCpTpGpTpTpGpApCpApApTpTpApApTOH G 8 HOGpTpTpCpGpApTpGpApTpTpApApTpTpGOH H 9 HOCpApTpCpGpApApCpTpApGpTpTpApApCOH I 10 HOGpCpGpTpApCpTpApGpTpTpApApCpTpAOR J 11 HOTpApGpTpApCpGpCpApApGpTpTpCpApCOH K 12 HOCpTpTpTp TpTpApCpGpTpGpApApCpTp TOH L 13 HOGpTpApApApApApGpGpGpTpTpCpGOH M 14 HOApAPTpCpGpApTpApCpCOH N Preparation 4 Following linker oligonucleotide ml and m2 were prepared by a similar manner to that of Preparation 1. 1 HOApGpCpT0pGpApApGpTpApApApApCpApTpGOH ml 2 HOApApTpTpCpApTpGpTpTpTpTpApCpTpTpCpAOH m2 Preparation 5 Preparation of trp promoter gene joined to somatostatin gene see Fig. 7 Aliquots of each oligonucleotides A through N, SA through SH 0.4 nM were phosphorylated with 4 units of T4 polynucleotide kinase made by BEL in 100 1 of a solution containing 74 mM TRIS hydrochloric acid pGH 7.6 , 10 mM dithiothreitol, 1.6 mM mercaptoethanol, 10 mM magnesium chloride and 0.5 mM ATP for 20 minutes at 370C. After the reaction was completed, the enzyme in the reaction mixture was deactivated by incubation at 1000C for 5 minutes. Ligation of the phosphorylated oligonucleotides was carried out as shown in Fig. 7 to give firstly fragment four blocks and ultimately the trp promoter gene joined to somatostatin gene for cloning. Ligations were carried out with T4 DNA ligase 7 units im absolution containing 100 mM ATP 0. 5 vl for 23 hours at 40C standard conditions . The ligation products of oligonucleotides in each step were identified by staining with ethidium bromide following electroelution on a 2 16 gradient polyacrylamide gel electrophoreisis hereinafter referred to as PAGE in tris EDTA buffer. The last ligation product was digested with EcoRI and BamHI and purified by preparative 7.58 PAGE to give the somatostatin gene joined to trp promoter gene 163 bp .Preparation 6Molecular cloning of somatostatin gene joined to trp promoter gene see Fig. 8 The synthetic gene was ligated with EcoRI, BamHI fragment of pBR322 commercially available in the presence of T4 DNA ligase and then E. coli HBl01 ATCC 33694 was transformed with the ligation product according to Kushner s protocol T.Maniatis, E. F.Fritsch, J. Sambrook Molecular Cloning p. 252 1982 . The plasmid obtained from the transformant ofRAmp and STet was digested with HpaI to confirm a band 4.1 kbp , and then digested with BamHI to confirm a band of 90 bp on PAGE. Moreover, the somatostatin gene 56 bp by EcoRI BamHI digestion was confirmed by the comparison with size marker on PAGE. This plasmid was named pTrpEB7 and used for a construction of plasmid pLHtrp.Preparation 7Synthesis of oligonucleotides al, a2, a3, a4, aS, a 6, bl, b2, b3, b4, b5, b6, cl, c2, c3, c4, c5, c6, dl, d2, d3, d4, d5, d6, el, e2, e3, e4, e5, 11, 12 and 13 which correspond to the symbols of each oligonucleotide in Fig. 9 Following oligonucleotides were prepared by a similar manner to that of SB described in Preparation 1. 1 HOApApTpTpCpApTpGpUpGpUpTOH al 2 HOApCpTpGpCpCpApGpGpApCpCpCpApTOH a2 3 HOApTpGpTpApApApApGpApApGpCpApGOH a3 4 HOTpGpGpCpApGpGpRTpApApCpApCpApTpGOH a4 5 HOTpTpTpApCpApTpApTpGpGpGpTpCpCOH a5 6 HOApApGpGpTpTpTpTpCpTpGpCpTpTpTOH a6 7 HOApApApApCpCpCpTpTpApApGpApApApTpAOH b1 8 HOCpTpTpTpApApTpGpCpApGpGpTpCpAOH b2 9 HOTpTpCpApGpApTpGpTpApGpCpGpGpAOH b3 10 HOApTpTpApApApGpTpApTpTpTpCpTpTOH b4 11 HOApTpCpTpGpApApTpGpApCpCpTpGpCOH b5 12 HOTpTpCpCpApTpTpApTpCpCpGpCpTpApCOH b6 13 HOTpApApTpGpGpApApCpTpCpTpTpTpTpCOH cl 14 BOTpTpApGpGpCpApTpTpTpTpGpApApGOH c2 15 HOApApTpTpGpGpApApApGpApGpGpApGOH c3 16 HOTpGpCpCpTpApApGpApApApApGpApGOH c4 17 HOTpCpCpApApTpTpCpTpTpCpApApApAOH c5 16 GHOCpTGpTpCpApCpTpCpTpCpCpTpCpTpTOH c6 19 HOApGpTpGpApCpApGpApApApApApTpAOH dl 20 HOApTpGpCpApGpApGpCpCpApApApTpTOH d2 21 HOGpTpCpTpCpCpTpTpTpTpApCpTpTOH d3 22 . HOCpTpCpTpGpCpApTpTpApTpTpTpTpTOH d4 23 HOApGpGpApGpApCpApApTpTpUpGpGOH d5 24 HOApApApGpCpTpTpGpApApGpTpApApAOH d6 25 HOCpApApGpCpTpTpTpTpCpApApApApAOH el 26 HOCpTpTpTpApApGpGpApTpGpApCpCpAOH e2 27 HOGpApGpCpApTpTpCpApApApApGpApOH e3 28 HOCpCpTpTpApApApGpTpTpTpTpTpGpAOH e4 29 HOGpGpApTpGpCpTpCpTpGpGpTpCpApTOH e5 30 HOTpGpTpGpTpApApTpGpApTpApGOH 11 31 HOTpApCpApCpApCpTpCpTpTpTpTOH 12 32 HOGpApTpCpCpTpApTpCpApTOH 13 Preparation 8Preparation of a gene fragment containing protein peptide LH gene see Fig. 9 Aliquots of each oligonucleotides a2 12 0.4 nM Were phosphorylated with 2.5 units of T4 polynucleotide kinase in 40 p1 of a solution containing 50 mM TRIS hydrochloric acid pR 7.6 , 20 mM dithiothreitol, 50 ug ml bovine serum albumin, 1 mM spermidine, 10 mM magnesium chloride and 2 mM ATP for 3 hours at 370C. After the reaction was completed, the enzyme in the reaction mixture was deactivated by incubation at 1000C for 5 minutes. Ligation of the phosphorylated oligonucleotides and two oligonucleotides al and 13 was carried out as shown in Fig. 9 to give firstly fragment six blocks and ultimately protein peptide LH gene 236 bp for cloning. Ligation was carried out with T4 DNA ligase 5 units in a solution containing 50 mM ATP 1 p1 for 5 hours at 160C. The ligation products of oligonucleotides in each step were identified by staining with ethidium bromide following electroelution on a 2 16 gradient PAGE in TRIS EDTA buffer.Preparation 9Molecular cloning of the gene fragment containing protein peptide LR gene see Fig. 10 Plasmid pBR322 was digested with BamHI and EcoRI restriction endonucleases. Reaction was terminated by heating at 650C for 5 minutes and the fragments separated by electrophoresis on a Q.5 agarose gel. The 3985 bp large fragment from pBR322 was recovered and ligated with the gene fragment containing protein peptide LH gene 236 bp synthesized as above in the presence of T4 DNA ligase for 18 hours at 120C. The ligated mixture was transformed into E. coli HB101 byKushner s method and ampicillin resistant transformants were selected on the plate containing tetracycline 25 vglml . The plasmid obtained from a transformant resistant to ampicillin and sensitive to tetracycline was digested with EcoRI and BamHI and the fragments were compared with appropriate size markers on an agarose gel electrophoresis. The expected 236 bp gene fragment containing protein peptide LH fragment was generated. This plasmid was named pLHl07 and was used for the construction of plasmid pLHtrp.Preparation 10Construction of plasmid pLHtrp see Fig. 11 pTrpEB7 prepared in Preparation 6 was digested with EcoRI and BamHI to give a large fragment 4.1 kbp by preparative agarose gel electrophoresis. This fragment was ligated with the gene fragment containing protein peptide LH gene prepared from a plasmid pLH107 by EcoRI and BamHI digestion. The ligated mixture was transformed into E. coli HBl01 to give ampicillin resistant and tetracycline sensitive transformants.The plasmid pLHtrp obtained from the transformant was digested with EcoRI and BamHI to confirm the gene fragment containing protein peptide LH gene 236 bp on 7.5 PAGE.Example 1 Construction of somatostatin recombinant plasmid pLHSStrp see Fig. 12 Plasmid pTrpEB7 was digested with EcoRI and BamHI to give somatostatin gene 56 bp . On the other hand, oligonucleotide m2 as prepared in Preparation 4 2 was phosphorylated with T4 polynucleotide kinase as described in Preparation 5. The phosphorylated oligonucleotide, oligonucleotide ml as prepared inPreparation 4 1 and somatostatin gene 56 bp were mixed and treated with T4 ligase in a solution containing 100mM ATP for 20 hours at 40C. The ligation mixture was digested with BamRI and then purified by preparative PAGE to give somatostatin gene with linker 74 bp .The gene 74 bp was ligated with the fragment obtained from pLHtrp by HindIII BamHI digestion, and then the ligation mixture was transformed into E. coli HB101. The E. coli HB101 containing plasmid pLHSStrp was named E. coli SS l.The plasmid pLHSStrp obtained from the transformant was digested with EcoRI and BamHI 198, 56 bp ,RindIII and BamHI 74 bp , HpaI BamHI 288 bp to confirm trp promoter gene, protein peptide LH and somatostatin gene on 7.5 PAGE.Example 2Expression of a gene coding for somatostatin fused with protein peptide LH in E. coli SS l An overnight culture of E. coli SS 1 which is E.coli HB101 containing plasmid pLRSStrp in L broth containing 5011g ml ampicillin was diluted 1 20 in M9 medium containing 0.2 glucose, 0.5 casamino acid acid hydrolyzed casein , 50 vg ml vitamin BI and 25 pg ml ampicillin. B Indole acrylic acid was added to a final concentration of lOug mi when A600 Was 0.5. Then the cells were incubated for 3 hours and collected by centrifugation to give wet cell paste. 8 krpm, 40C, 10 minutes .Example 3Isolation and purification of somatostatin Wet cell paste prepared in Example 2 was suspended in 70 formic acid containing cyanogen bromide 10 mg ml and stirred at room temperature overnight. The solvent was removed by lyophilization, the residue was suspended in 8M urea buffer 8M urea, 0.1M TRIS hydrochloric acid pH 8.0 , 0.1M dithiothreitol and adjusted with TRIS at pH 8.0.After centrifugation of the solution, the supernatant was purified by gel filtration on HPLC column TSK 3000SW, trademark made by Toyo Soda Manufacturing Co. Ltd. . The fraction eluted with 8M urea buffer was purified by reverse phase HPLC column BeckmanUltrapore RPSC, trademark made by Beckman, linear gradient from 10 to 60 acetonitrile in 0.01M trifluoroacetic acid to obtain the purified somatostatin. N terminal sequence Ala l Phe 7 of the somatostatin was determined by amino acid sequence analysis. By this procedure about 1 mg of purified somatostatin was obtained from 1 litter of culture liquid.Example 4 1 Isolation and purification of fused somatostatin Wet cell paste prepared by the method of Example 2 6g was suspended in 10mM PBS EDTA pH 8.0 buffer 15ml and cells were lysed by sonication. The cells debris was pelleted by centrifugation at 18,000 rpm for 30 minutes.The pellet was dissolved in 10ml of 0.1M TRIS hydrochloric acid pH 8.0 , 6M guanidineHCI, 10m M EDTA and 0.1M dithiothreitol and stirred at 40C overnight, then centrifuged at 40C 15,000 rpm, 30 minutes The supernatant was collected and applied to a gel filtration by HPLC TSK 3000SW column equilibrated with 6M guanidine HC1, 0.1M TRIS hydrochloric acid pH 8.0 , 10mM EDTA, and IOmM dithiotheitol. Elution was carried out at 40e with elution buffer, at a flow rate of 0.7 ml minute. The fractions having a peak at retention time of 30 minutes were collected and were dialyzed against 1M acetic acid aqueous solution. The fraction dialyzed was lyophilized to give fused somatostatin. The fused somatostatin shows a band at the position of molecular weight 9,500 on 15 sodium dodecyl sulfate polyacrylamide gel electrophoreisis.2 Elimination of protein peptide LH from fused somatostatin with cyanogen bromide The fused somatostatin obtained above was dissolved in lml of 80 formic acid. Cyanogen bromide 3mg was added and the mixture was allowed to stand at room temperature overnight. The solvent was removed by lyophylization, and the residue was dissolved in lml of 6M guanidine HC1, 0.1M TRIS hydrochloric acid pH 8.0 , l0mM EDTA and 0.1M dithiothreitol.HPLC The solution obtained above was applied. column Beckman Ultrapore RpSC made by Beckman flow rate 1 ml minute elution linear gradient from 10 to 60 acetonitrile in 0.01M trifluoroacetic acid over 50 minutes. The chromatography was repeated and fractions having a peak with a retention time of 17.23 minutes were collected. The pooled fraction was lyophilized to give somatostatin. Fig. 1 Schematic structure of the gene of the trp promotor operator bregion of E. coli EMI28.1 Fig. 2 DNA sequence of the most preferable trp promotor gene of the invention EMI29.1 Fig. 3 Amino acid sequence of the protein peptide LH EcoRI Met Cys Tyr Cys Gln Asp Pro Tyr 5 AATTC ATG TGT TAC TGC CAG GAC CCA TAT 3 G TAC ACA ATG ACG GTC CTG GGT ATA 10 20Val Lys Glu Ala Glu Asn Leu Lys Lys Tyr Phe Asn Ala Gly O TA AAA GAA GCA OAA AAC CTT AAO AAA TAC TT T AAT OCA GOT CAT TTT CTT COT CTT TTO OAA TTC TTT ATO AAA TTA COT CCA 30His Ser Asp Val Ala Asp Asn Gly Thr Leu Phe Leu Gly lieCAT TCA GAT GTA GCG GAT AAT GGA ACT CTT TTC TTA GCG ATTGTA AGT CTA CAT CGC CTA TTA CCT TGA GAA AAG AAT CCG TAALeu Lys Asn Trp Lys Glu Glu Ser Asp Lys Ile Met Gin TTG AAG AAT T GG AAA GAG GAG AGT GAC A GA AAA A TA ATG CAG AAC TTC TTA ACC TTT CTC CTC T CA CTO TCT TTT TAT TAC GTC 50 HindllI Ser Gln lie Val Ser Phe Tyr PheAGC CAA ATT GTC TCC TTT TAC TTC ATCG GTT TAA CAG AGG AAA ATG AAG TTC GA Fig. 4 DNA sequence of the most preferable lonker HindIII LeuGluValLysHis EcoRI AGCTTGAAGTAAAACATGACTTCATTTTGTACTTAA Fig. 5 Schematic structure of the gene coding for somatostatin EMI32.1 Fig. 6 Amino acid sequence of the fused protein Met Cys TYr C yS Gln Asp Pro Tyr 10 20 Val Lys Glu AIa Glu Asn Leu Lys Lys T yr Phe Asn Ala Gly 30His Ser Asp Val Ala Asp Asn Gly Thr Leu Phe Leu Gly I le 40 Leu Lys Asn Trp Lys Glu Glu Ser Asp Arg L ys lie Met Gin 50 60Ser GLn Ile Val Ser Phe Tyr Phe Lys Leu Glu Val Lys His 70Glu Phe Met Ala Gly Cys Lys ASn Phe Phe Trp Las THr Phe 80THr Ser Cys Fig. 7 Construction of the trp promoter gene jointed to somatostatin gene EMI34.1 Fig. 8 Construction of plasmid pTrpEB7EMI35.1 Fig. 9 Construction of a gene fragment containing protein peptide LH gene EMI36.1 Fig. 10 Molecular cloning of a gene fragment containing promoter peptide LH geneEMI37.1 Fig. 11 Construction of somatostatin gene and plasmid pLHtrpEMI38.1 Fig. 12 Construction of recombinant plasmid pLHSStrpEMI39.1