# DIOXOLOBENZISOXAZOLE DERIVATIVES AND PROCESS FOR PREPARING THE SAME

## Claims
Dioxolobenzisoxazolderivate der allgemeinen Formel I

## Description
This invention relates to dioxolobenzisoxazole derivatives having uricosuric and diuretic activities which are represented by the formula I wherein R₁ is a phenyl group which may be substituted with a halogen atom, a C₁ C₃ alkyl group or a trifluoromethyl group, or a thienyl group R₂ is a hydrogen atom or a C₁ C₄ alkyl group and X and Y which may be the same or different represent a hydrogen atom or a halogen atom, and non toxic salts thereof when R₂ is a hydrogen atom. Conventional diuretic hypotensive agents are extensively used as drugs of first choice in the treatment of hypertension, but they have a high potential of causing hyperuricemia as a side effect. Furthermore, hypertension is often complicated by hyperuricemia and many cases of hyperuricemia are believed to be caused by disorders in the excretion of uric acid. Under these circumstances, there exists a strong need in medical fields for the development of diuretics having uricosuric activity. Diuretics known to have uricosuric activity are phenoxyacetic acids typified by thienylic acid U.S. Patent No. 3,758,506 , but the compounds are yet to be commercialized because of the high possibility of them causing liver disorders as a side effect. Benzisoxazole carboxylic acids which exhibit diuretic activity and their use for the treatment of hypertension, cardiac failure, edema and other conditions involving fluid and electrolyte accumulation are disclosed in EP A 119294 and 126 342. As a result of various studies made to overcome the disadvantages mentioned above, it has been found that the dioxolobenzisoxazole derivatives of formula I have both uricosuric and diuretic activities and yet cause minimum side effects on the liver. The present invention has been accomplished on the basis of this finding. In the compounds represented by the formula I , the halogen atom of the halogen substituted phenyl group for R₁ is chlorine, bromine, or fluorine. The preferred alkyl substituted phenyl for R₁ is the tolyl group. On the other hand, the halogen atom for X and y is chlorine, bromine or fluorine. When R₂ is a hydrogen atom, the compounds of this invention may form salts with bases. Such salts should be pharmaceutically acceptable, and specific examples thereof are sodium salts, potassium salts, calcium salts, magnesium salts, ammonium salts, lower alkyl amine salts and ethanolamine salts. The compounds of the formula I in accordance with the present invention are novel and specific examples thereof are The compounds of the formula I may be prepared by reacting a compound of the formula II wherein R₁, X and Y are the same as defined above with a compound of the formula A ₂CH COOB wherein A is a halogen atom and B is a hydrogen atom or a C₁ C₄ alkyl group. The reaction is performed in the presence of a base in an inert solvent. Examples of the inert solvent include ethers, alcohols, hydrocarbons, aromatic hydrocarbons, water, and aprotic polar solvents such as N,N dimethylformamide and dimethyl sulfoxide. Illustrative bases are hydrides, alkoxides, hydroxides and carbonates of alkali metals and organic bases. More specific examples include sodium hydride, sodium methoxide, sodium ethoxide, sodium hydroxide, potassium hydroxide, sodium carbonate, potassium carbonate and triethylamine. The reaction temperature is appropriately selected from the range of 0 The isolation of the compounds of the formula I from the reaction mixture can be performed by conventional methods, for example, extraction, recrystallization, etc. The compounds represented by the formula II may be prepared by subjecting the corresponding O alkyl compounds to dealkylation reaction with pyridine hydrochloride, boron tribromide, etc. The compound of this invention can be formulated with a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier by any conventional method into a preparation suitable for oral or parenteral administration. The present invention will be further illustrated by the following Experiment and Examples, but they are not to be construed as limiting the invention. The diuretic and uricosuric activities of the compounds of the present invention were confirmed by the following experiment. Seven week old Wistar Imamichi rats that had been starved for 24 hours were divided into groups of four or five heads so that the animals of each group would excrete almost the same amount of urine. After forced urination, the rats were orally administered the test compounds that were suspended in physiological saline containing 3 gum arabic in a dose volume of 25 ml per kg of the body weight. The suspensions were administered typically in an amount of 100 mg kg. Control rats were given only physiological saline containing 3 gum arabic. The animals were housed in separate metabolic cages and the urine excreted from each animal was collected over periods of 6 hours and 24 hours following the administration of the test compounds or physiological saline after complete starvation. The urine volume was directly read on a measuring cylinder after forced urination thereinto, and the amount of urine per kg of the body weight was calculated. The amount of uric acid excreted in the urine was determined by the uricase catalase method. As is apparent from the following Table I, the compounds of the present invention exhibited significant levels of diuretic and uricosuric activities, which were found to be long lasting and dose dependent. The compound numbers given in the table are keyed to the specific Examples shown later in this specification. A mixture of 5,6 dihydroxy 3 phenyl 1,2 benzisoxazole 2.9 g , potassium carbonate 10.7 g and methyl dichloroacetate 3.7 9 in 50 ml of N,N dimethylformamide was stirred at 90 100 The compounds shown in Table II below were prepared by the method employed in Example 1. A mixture of 5,6 dihydroxy 3 o tolyl 1,2 benzisoxazole 4.7 g , potassium carbonate 12.1 g , methyl dichloroacetate 4.2 g in N,N dimethylformamide 40 ml was stirred at 90 95 A mixture of 4 chloro 3 phenyl 1,3 dioxolo 4,5 f 1,2 benzisoxazole 6 carboxylic acid 0.4 g obtained in Example 3, conc. sulfuric acid 0.2 g and absolute ethanol 10 ml was refluxed for one hour. After distilling ethanol off, water was added to the mixture followed by extraction with methylene chloride. The methylene chloride layer was washed with water, dried and evaporated to remove the solvent. The residue was recrystallized from acetone water to give 0.4 g of 4 chloro 3 phenyl 1,3 dioxolo 4,5 f 1,2 benzisoxazole 6 carboxylic acid ethyl ester. m.p. 101.5 102.5 To a mixture of 6,7 dihydroxy 3 phenyl 1,2 benzisoxazole 2.8 g , methyl dichloroacetate 3.5 g and N,N dimethyl formamide 50 ml was slowly added 60 sodium hydride 1.2 g while stirring under cooling with ice. After stirring for 5 hours at 90 100 The residue was purified by a column chromatography on silica gel with use of dichloromethane as a developing solution. The resulting product was recrystallized from methanol water to give 1.3 g of 3 phenyl 1,3 dioxolo 4,5 g 1,2 benzisoxazole 7 carboxylic acid methyl ester. m.p. 78 80 A mixture of 6,7 dihydroxy 3 phenyl 1,2 benzisoxazole 2.1 g , potassium carbonate 7.7 g , methyl dichloroacetate 2.7 g and N,N dimethylformamide 50 ml was stirred at 90 100 By the method similar to that described in Example 12, the compounds shown in Table III below were prepared.