# Stabilized polycarbonates.

## Abstract
Polycarbonate compositions comprising a small amount of a certain halogenobenzotriazole were found to be particu larly suitable for optical purposes since they feature a desirable high UV cutoff and since they are processable at high temperatures.

## Claims
WHAT IS CTJIMED IS 1. A polycarbonate composition comprising a polycarbonate resin and a W stabilizing amount of a compound conforming structurally toEMI26.1 wherein hal denotes a bromine or chlorine atom, R1 denotes a linear C1 C10 alkyl, a tertiary butyl radical or an aralkyl radical and R2 denotes R1. 2, The polycarbonate composition of Claim 1 wherein said stabilizing amount is about 0.05 to about 0.5 percent relative to the weight of the composition. 3. An ophthalmic lens comprising the polycarbonate composition of Claim I. 4. A safety goggle comprising the polycarbonate composition of Claim 1. 5. The polycarbonate composition of Claim 1 wherein said polycarbonate resin is a homopolymer derived from bisphenol A. 6. Sports and recreation eyewear comprising the composition of Claim 1. 7. A polycarbonate composition comprising a polycarbonate resin and a W stabilizing amount of 2 3 tert butyl 2 hydroxy 5 methylphenyl 5 chlorobenzotriazole. 8. The polycarbonate composition of Claim 7 wherein said stabilizing amount is about 0.05 to about 0.5 percent relative to the weight of said composition. 9. An opthalmic lens comprising a polycarbonate resin and about 0.05 to about 0.30 percent by weight of 2 3t tert butyl 2 hydroxy 5t methylphenyl 5 chlorobenzotriazole. 10. A safety goggle comprising a polycarbonate resin and about 0.1 to about 0.5 percent by weight of 2 3 tert butyl 2 hydroxy 5 methylphenyl 5 chlorobenzotriazole.

## Description
STABILIZED POLYCARBONATESField of the Invention The present invention relates to polycarbonate compositions and more particularly to W stable polycarbonate compositions. SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION Polycarbonate compositions comprising a small amount of a certain halogenobenzotriazole were found to be particularly suitable for optical purposes since they feature a desirable high UV cutoff and since they are processable at high temperatures. BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION while the use of polycarbonate in the field of the safety eyewear market has been established, its use for molding of certain opthalmic vision care products which also protect against W radiation has been limited. Existing polycarbonate products are satisfactory for applications where moderate UV screening is required, i.e. up to about 380 NM nanometers cutoff.Recent information indicates that radiation between 274 NM and 400 NM may be damaging to the eye and studies point to that W radiation is a cause of cataracts. The current standards respecting opthalmic lenses include requirements of 0 transmission at 390 NM, 0 to 8 transmission at 395 NM and 0.1 to 15 transmission at 400 NM. For safety goggle lenses the standards require 0X transmission at 400 NM. The art recognizes the need to improve the UV stability of polycarbonate resins and to minimize the transmission of harmful UV radiation through polycarbonate molded parts. while W absorbers are generally known, not all are compatible with polycarbonate resins at the high temperature required for moldings. Representative of the art in this connection is U.S. Patent 4,096,115 which discloses a large number of W stabilizers said to be effective in any of a great number of polymeric compositions. The relevant art is noted to include U.S.Patent 3,322,719 which discloses polycarbonates made stable in respect to UV radiation upon the incorporation therewith of a co stabilizer selected from a group which includes phosphoric acids, boric acid, and certain phosphates and any member selected among certain benzophenones and a certain 2 2 hydroxy 5 tertiary octylphenyl benzotriazole Cyasorbe5411 . Also relevant in this context is U.S. Patent 3,367,958 which discloses W stabilized polycarbonates containing up to 0.5Z of 2 2 hydroxy 5 methylphenyl benzotriazole. U.S. Patent 3,502,613 is noted to disclose polypropylene compositions which are made W stable by the incorporation of the stabilizer of the present invention as a co additive. Also, U.S. Patent 3,892,889 discloses the 1w stabilization of polycarbonate by treating the surface of the molded articles with a liquid mixture containing W absorbers. The absorbers encompass within their scope the stabilizer of the present invention. U.S. Patent 4,206,111 discloses that certain benzotriazoles including stabilizers of the present invention are made more efficient as stabilizers of polyolefins upon the addition to the compositions of certain diphosphonites and an oxidation inhibitor. U.S. Patent 4,283,327 discloses W stabilizers, including certain benzotriazoles which are effective in the context of polycarbonate compositions. DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION The polycarbonate resins useful in the practice of the invention are homopolycarbonate, copolycarbonate and terpolycarbonate resins or mixtures thereof. Preferably, the polycarbonate resins have molecular weights of 10,000 200,000 weight average molecular weight , more preferably 20,000 80,000, and may al ternatively be characterized by their preferred melt flow of 1 24 gm 10 min. at 3000 C per ASTM D 1238. These polycarbonates may be prepared, for example, by the known diphasic interface process from phosgene and dihydroxy compounds by polycondensation. In the present context, dihydroxy compounds suitable for the preparation of the polycarbonates of the invention conform to the structural formulae 1 or 2 EMI3.1 whereinA denotes an alkylene group with 1 to 8 carbon atoms, an alkylidene group with 2 to 8 carbon atoms, a cycloalkylene group with 5 to 15 carbon atoms a cycloalkylidene group with 5 to 15 carbon atoms, a carbonyl group, an oxygen atom, a sulfur atom, an SO or S0n radical or a ra radical of the general formula EMI4.1 denotes the number 0 or 1 denotes the number 0 or 1 denotes F, Cl, Br or a C1 C2 alkyl and if several Z radicals are substituents in one aryl radical, they may be identical or different d denotes 0 or an integer of from 1 to 4 and f denotes 0 or an integer of from 1 to 3. Among the useful dihydroxy compounds in the practice of the invention are hydroquinone, resorcinol, bis hy droxyphenyl alkanes, bis hydroxyphenyl cycloalkanes, ris hydroxyphenyl ethers, bis hydroxyphenyl ketones, bis hydroxyphenyl sulfoxides, bis hydroxyphenyl sulfones and alpha , alpha bis hydroxyphenyl diisopropyl benzenes. These and further suitable aromatic dihydroxy compounds cescribed, for example, in U.S. Patents 3,028,365 2,999,835 and 2,999,846, in German OffenlegungsschriftenGerman Published Specifications 1,570,703 2,063,050 2, 63,052 2,211,956 and 2,211,957 and in the monograph, rell, Chemistrv and Phvsics of Polvcarbonates,Interscience Publishers, New York, 1964. Further examples of suitable dihydroxy compounds are 2,2 bis 4 hydroxyphenyl propane bisphenol A , 2,4 bis 4 hydroxyphenyl 2 methyl butane, 1,1 bis 4 hydroxyphenyl cyclohexane. , bis 4 hydroxyphenyl p diisopropyl benzene, 2,2 bis 3 chloro 4 hydroxyphenyl propane, hydroxybenzophenone and 4,4 sulfonyl diphenol the most preferred one is 2,2 bis 4 hydroxyphenyl propane bisphenol A . The polycarbonates of the invention may entail in their structure, units derived from one or more of the suitable dihvdroxv compounds. The preparation of polycarbonate resins may be carried out in accordance with any of the processes known in the art, for example, by the interfacial polvcondensation process, polycondensation in a homogeneous phase or by transesterification. The suitable processes and the associated reactants, catalysts, solvents and conditions are known in the art. In the preparation of the polycarbonate resins of the invention monofunctional reactants such as monophenols may be used in order to limit their respective molecular weights. Branching agents may also be employed. Branching may be obtained by the incorporation of small amounts, preferably of between about 0.05 and 2.0 mol relative to diphenols employed , of trifunctional or more than trifunctional compounds, especially compounds having three or more phenyl aromatic hydroxyl groups. Polycarbonates of this tvpe are described, for example, in German Offenlegungsschriften German Published Specifications 1,570,533 1,595,762 2,116,974 and 2,113,347 BritishSpecification 1,079,821 and U.S.Patent 3,544,514 Some examples of compounds with three or more than three phenyl hydroxyl groups which can be used are phloroglucinol, 4,6 dimethyl 2,4,6 tri 4 hydroxy phenyl heptane, 2,4,6 trimethyl 2,4,6 tri 4 hydroxy phenyl heptane, 1,4,5 tri 4 hydroxyphenyl benzene, 1,1,1 tri 4 hydroxyphenyl ethane, tri 4 hydroxyphenyl phenylmethane, 2,2 bis 4,4 bis 4 hydroxy phenyl cyclohexyl propane, 2,4 bis 4 hydroxyphenyl isopropyl phenol, 2,6 bis 2 hydroxy 5 methylbenzyl 4 methylphenol, 2 4 hydroxyphenyl 2 2,4 dihydroxy phenyl propane, hexa 4 4 hydroxyphenylisopropyl phenyl orthoterephthalic acid ester, tetra 4 hydroxy phenyl methane, tetra 4 4 hydroxyphenylisopropyl phenoxy methane and 1,4 bis 4 ,4 dihydroxytriphenyl methyl benzene. Some of the other trifunctional compounds are 2,4 dihydroxy benzoic acid, trimesic acid, cyanuric chloride and 3,3 bis 4 hydroxy 3 methyl phenyl 2 oxo 2,3 dihydroindole. Among the resins suitable in the practice of the invention are included phenolphthalein based polycarbonate, copolycarbonates and terpolycarbonates such as are described in U.S. Paten ts 3,036,036 and 4,210,741, both incorporated by reference herein. The ultraviolet stabilizer in the present context is a halogen substituted benzotriazole having the general formulaEMI6.1 wherein hal denotes chlorine or bromine, R1 denotes a linear C1 C10 alkyl group, a tertiary butyl radical or an aralkyl radical and whereR2 is R1, preferably a C1 C10 alkyl radical. The preferred embodiment is represented by the formula belowEMI7.1 It is available commercially from Ciba Geigy as Tinuvin commat 326, chemically termed 2 3 tert butyl 2 hydroxy 5 methylphenyl 5 chlorobenzotriazole. Tinuvin 326 is a light yellow crystalline powder having a melting point of 140 141 C. It appears that the thermal and light stability of the stabilizer of the present invention is attributable to an internal chelate bonding of the phenolic hydroxyl and the benzotriazole ring. Further, although the precise mechanism operating in the invention is not entirely clear, the experiments leading up to the invention strongly suggest the importance of the halogen substitution in imparting the stability in the present context. The dissociation constant of Tinuvin 326 is about 13 in 80 aqueous dioxane rendering the stabilizer relatively less affected b y alkalis. The absorption maxima ofTinuvin 326, in chloroform, are 312 NM and 350 NM and the specific extinction coefficients E are 46 and 50.In methanol the absorptive maxima values are 298 NM and 343 NM and the specific extinction coefficients E are 47 and 51. A further characterization of the preferred stabilizer of the invention is found in Ciba Geigy Corporation s bulletin A 2701M119A entitled Tinuvin 326 Ultraviolet Light Absorber for Plastics and Coatings , which document is incorporated herein by reference. In the preparation of W stable compositions in accordance with the invention, a stabilizing amount1 i.e. an amount sufficient to render the polycarbonate composition fairly non transparent to 1w light is added to the resin and the composition processed in accordance with known procedures in the polycarbonate art. Preferably, the amount of the stabilizer is in the range of about 0.05 to about 0.5 percent, more preferably the range is about 0.3 to about 0.4 percent, relative to the weight of the composition. Most preferably, for opthalmic lens applications, the amount of Tinuvin 326 is about 0.05 to about 0.3 percent by weight. The most preferable range of stabilizer addition for safety goggle lens applications is about 0.1 to about 0.5 percent by weight. In one method of preparing the compositions of the invention, the components are dry blended until the additive practically coats the polycarbonate granules.The thus coated granules are then extruded in a conventional extruder and pelletized. Incorporating the stabilizer of the invention may also be carried out by adding it directly to the polycarbonate melt via, for instance, a DV extruder. Further processing of the pellets such as by injection molding will produce a polycarbonate product having an excellent resistance to UNt dcgradation and be at least substantially opaque to transmission of W radiation in the 275 400 NM range. The polycarbonate compositions thus described may contain further agents known in the relevant art for their utility. These include mold release agents, heat stabilizers and plasticizers as well as dyes and pigments, etc. The stabilized compositions are especially useful for applications in the opthalmic and optical lens field as well as for sports and recreation eyewear and are useful for the preparation of films, fibers, coatings, lacquers and variously shaped articles. The invention its further illustrated but is not intended to be limited by the following examples where all parts and percentages are by weight unless otherwise specified. EXAMPLESExamples 1 16 Compositions containing prior art W stabi lizers were compared to the composition of the invention. The optical and rheological characteristics were determined for compositions containing a polycarbonate resin a homopolycarbonate based on bisphenolA Merlon M 40 from Mobay Chemical Corporation and about 0.3 of the indicated W stabilizer. A phosphorous containing thermal stabilizer added to each of the compositions 0.075X has no criticality in the present context. The compositions were extruded Werner Pfleiderer twin screw extruder at 255 2650C.The injection moldings of these and the remaining examples were carried out under either of the conditions which are noted below 3 oz. FarrelStandard Temperature nozzle 290 C front 295 C mid 295 C back 295 CGate to gate time 80 mil disc 30 sec. no purge between shots 100 mll disc 35 sec. 250 mii disc 55 sec. 500 mil disc 7 min.High Temperature nozzle 270 C front 370 C mid 370 C back 370 CGate to gate time 100 mii disc 56.5 sec. no purge between shots The extruded recipes were molded into 3 discs of 0.100 thickness. Pellet and part melt flow rates and the optical properties of the compositions were determined and the results are summarized below TablesI and II . TABLE IOptical Properties of Polycarbonate Cmpositions 1 Containing 0,3 UV Stabilizers Visible Region TransmissionExample UV Stabilizer 2 Transmission Yellowness Index Haze 400 NM 1 Cyasorb 5411 85.7 2.0 2.4 57.0 2 Tinuvin P 85.6 1.8 2.1 57.0 3 Tinuvin 350 85.7 2.6 1.8 30.0 4 Tinuvin 234 35.3 2.3 2.3 28.0 5 Uvinul D 49 83.8 17.0 1.7 50.0 6 Tinuvin 326 86.1 4.7 1.8 0.0 7 Tinuvin 327 85.9 3.7 1.9 0.5 8 Tinuvin 622 85.0 3.7 2.2 71.0 1 molded at 550 F 2 The chemical structures of the UV stabilizers are noted below. Ditorted UV scan EMI12.1 SEP tn tb SEP 1. SEP CYASORD SEP 5411 SEP 3. SEP TINUVIN SEP 350 SEP C, SEP 113 tb m SEP I tb Ho SEP CH C2H5 tb SEP tb o SEP z SEP z tb SEP Es tb SEP at tb SEP oX tb SEP rA tb o SEP W tb u tb 2 2 hydroxy 5 t octylphenyl 2 3 sec butyl 5 t butyl 2 benzotriazole hydroxyphenyl benzotriazole EMI12.2 SEP m SEP m tb SEP u SEP c tb SEP U SEP C tb v SEP z SEP z tb SEP HO tb SEP HO SEP N SEP CH3 tb SEP C 13 tb SEP CH3 tb SEP z SEP z tb SEP H SEP tb 2 2 hydroxy 5 methylphenyl 2 3 ,5 bis 1 methyl 1 phenylethyl benzotriazole 2 hydroxyphenyl benzotriazole 5. UVINUL D 49 7.TINUVIN 327 EMI13.1 2,2 dihydroxy 4,4 dimethoxy 2 3 ,5 di t butyl 2 hydroxyphenyl benzophenone 5 chlorobenzotriazole 6. TINUVIN 326 8. TINUVIN 622 EMI13.2 2 3 t butyl 2 hydroxy 5 succinate polymer with 4 hydroxy 2,2, methylphenyl 5 chlorbenzotriazole 6,6, tetramethyl l piperidineethanol A second series of compositions identical to the above was similarly prepared and molded except that the molding temperature was about 700OF. TABLE IIOptical Properties of Polycarbonate CompositionsÚ Containing 0.3 UV Stabilizer Visible Region TransmissionExample UV Stabilizerê Transmission Yellowness Index Haze 00NM 9 Cyasorb 5411 84.9 6.1 2.0 55.0 10 Tinuvin P 84.8 5.7 2.2 62.0 11 Tinuvin 350 84.2 8.1 1.9 35.0 12 Tinuvin 234 84.5 6.0 2.3 28.0 13 Uvinul D 49 73.4 40.7 1.8 34.0 14 Tinuvin 326 85.6 7.2 1.9 0.0 15 Tinuvin 327 85.0 7.2 2.2 0.5 16 Tinuvin 622 22.9 137.0 4.1 0.0 1 Molded at 700 F 2 The chemical structures of the UV stabilizers are noted below. Distorted UV scan The transmission values were determined using a spectrophotometer Cary 219 at 550 NM in accordance with ASTM D 1003. Haze values were determined in accordance with ASTM D 1003. Yellowness Index was determined in accordance with ASTM D 1925. The experience with the 1w stabilizers has shown that Cyasorb 5411 does not provide the desirable level of 1w absorption as shown by the values of transmission at 400 NM. It was also noted that this stabilizer appears to react with the polycarbonate resin at elevated temperature. Tinuvin 350 provides sufficient absorption at 400 NM. However in order to obtain 0 transmission, a relatively large amount ofTinuvin 350 is required which amount tends to cause processing difficulties, i.e. plate out. Uvinul D 50 and American Cyanamid s Cyasorb W 24 were found to be unstable at 700OF. Tinuvin 622 was determined to be incompatible with polycarbonates.While the stabilizer of the present invention is structurally similar toTinuvin 327 and to Tinuvin 350, it was found that its efficacy is greater since smaller amounts thereof are required for obtaining the desired properties of the compositions. Melt flow rates of the compositions in accordance with the invention were determined and compared to the corresponding rates of prior art counterparts Table III . The rates were determined in accordance with ASTM D 1238, 300 C, 1200 gm. TABLE III EXAMPLE 17 MELT FLOW RATES 0.1 STABILIZER 0.3 STABILIZER 0.75 STABILIZER Parts Parts Parts Parts UV STABILISER Pellets 550 F Pellets 550 F 700 F Pellets 550 FCyasorb 5411 5.6 7.7 7.4 7.5 10.8 6.0 6.3Tinuvin P 5.8 7.8 7.4 7.6 11.2 6.9 6,8Tinuvin 350 5.4 7.0 7.1 7.9 10.3 5.6 6.4Tinuvin 234 5.5 7.0 7.2 7.9 9.8 5.5 5.9Uvinul D 49 7.6 8.2 15.6 Tinuvin 326 5.8 7.2 7.8 7.2 6.3 5.8 5.8Tinuvin 327 6.3 7.0 7.3 7.8 8.6 5.5 6.1Tinuvin 622 10.7 12.4 71.3 The extrusions of compositions containing 0.1 and 0.75 of UV stabilizers were carried out inMPM 2 , single screw extruder at a temperature range of 270 275 C Examples 18 25 A further comparison between the present stabilizer and its prior art counterparts has been carried out and the findings are presented below. A thermogravimetric analysis, isothermal at 3000C seal in pan with pinhole showed that the relative weight loss due to evaporation of these stabilizers is a function of their time duration at that temperature. TABLE IVTHERMOGRAVIMETRY OF UV STABILIZERS Weight LossExample Stabilizer 5 minutes 10 minutes 18 Cyasorb 5411 51 100 19 Tinuvin P 94 20 Tinuvin 350 57 100 21 Tinuvin 234 2.5 8 22 Uvinul D 49 50 79 23 Tinuvin 326 51 92 24 Tinuvin 327 51 91 25 Tinuvin 622 4 10 After 3 minutes 100 loss occured after 8.5 minutes Examples 26 55 Further compositions within the scope of the invention were prepared standard molding temperature and their properties determined and compared to prior art compositions.The concentration of the stabilizers was varied from 0.1Z to 0.75Z and the physical properties Z Transmission, Yellowness Index, Haze andTransmission at 400 NM were measured on discs of different thicknesses as noted in Tables V and VI. TABLE VOPTICAL DATA IN VISIBLE REGION Transmission Yellowness Index HazeExample Concentration UV Stabilizer .08 .10 .25 .50 .08 .10 .25 .50 .08 .10 .25 50 26 0.1 Cyasorb 5411 87.4 86.9 82.5 1.4 1.0 .80 .42 .68 1.2 27 0.1 Tinuvin P 87.2 86.9 82.4 1.6 1.1 .88 .44 .71 1.0 28 0.1 Tinuvin 350 87.1 86.9 82.1 2.2 1.3 1.6 .54 .73 1.4 29 0.1 Tinuvin 234 87.5 86.8 82.6 1.2 1.5 1.3 .45 .44 .84 30 0.1 Tinuvin 326 87.5 87.0 82.6 2.3 2.4 3.6 .38 .37 .79 31 0.1 Tinuvin 327 87.5 87.1 82.5 1.8 1.9 2.3 .43 .44 1.0 32 0.3 Cyasorb 5411 86.6 85.7 80.8 1.8 2.0 2.7 .98 2.4 2.4 33 0.3 Tinuvin P 86.8 85.6 81.0 1.9 1.8 2.8 1.0 2.1 2.2 34 0.3 Tinuvin 350 86.9 85.7 80.8 2.2 2.6 4.2 .89 1.8 2.3 35 0.3 Tinuvin 234 86.5 85.3 79.4 2.2 2.3 4.1 1.4 2.3 3.8 36 0.3 Tinuvin 326 87.2 86.1 81.1 71.6 4.1 4.7 7.7 14.7 .84 1.8 2.6 5.1 37 0.3 Tinuvin 327 87.1 85.9 80.9 70.6 3.4 3.7 6.4 11.1 .86 1.9 2.7 5.4 38 0.5 Cyasorb 5411 87.3 86.3 81.0 1.6 2.4 2.6 .65 .70 1.6 39 0.5 Tinuvin P 87.1 86.1 80.2 1.8 2.1 3.3 .74 .80 1.9 40 0.5 Tinuvin 350 87.2 86.4 80.8 2.3 2.5 4.3 .68 .69 1.7 41 0.5 Tinuvin 234 87.2 86.4 81.1 2.2 2.6 2.9 .55 .66 1.7 42 0.5 Tinuvin 326 87.0 86.2 80.6 70.6 5.7 6.4 10.2 15.6 .71 .70 1.5 4.3 43 0.5 Tinuvin 327 87.2 86.5 81.3 72.4 3.9 4.6 7.8 12.9 .92 .62 1.2 2.8 44 0.75 Cyasorb 5411 86.9 86.2 81.2 2.5 2.4 3.3 .60 .72 1.6 45 0.75 Tinuvin P 86.4 85.6 97.4 2.8 3.1 5.5 .84 1.1 2.6 46 0.75 Tinuvin 350 86.7 86.0 80.2 3.2 3.5 5.5 .73 .91 2.0 47 0.75 Tinuvin 234 86.9 86.3 80.9 3.0 2.8 3.9 .62 .75 1.8 48 0.75 Tinuvin 326 85.9 78.7 7.1 8.5 13.3 .72 .82 2.7 49 0.75 Tinuvin 327 87.1 86.4 80.6 5.0 6.1 10.6 .64 .68 1.8 TABLE VI TRANSMISSION AT 400 NM 0.1 0.3 0.5 0.75 Example UV Stabilizer .08 .10 .25 .08 .10 .25 .50 .08 .10 .25 .50 .08 .10 .25 50 Cyasorb 5411 76 75 61 60 57 2 55 45 18 42 35 12 51 Tinuvin P 75 72 54 62 57 36 53 46 20 29 27 5 52 Tinuvin 350 63 60 35 40 30 7 30 17 3 12 9 .5 53 Tinuvin 234 63 59 37 40 28 10 26 18 2 10 6 .2 54 Tinuvin 326 8.5 5.5 .2 .4 .2 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 55 Tinuvin 327 20 14 1.0 1.2 .5 0 0 .2 0 0 0 0 0 0 Examples 56 61 Optical properties and color data were determined on moldings produced. from the polycarbonate compositions of the invention, using Tinuvin 326 at various concentrations and at two different molding conditions as noted above.Table VII below indicates the properties of these compositions all of which included 0.075Z of a thermal stabilizer having no critical effect on the present invention. EFFECT ON OPTICAL PROPERTIES OF VARIOUS THERMAL STABILIZERSTABLE VII EMI24.1 STANDARD SEP TEMPERATURE SEP HIGH SEP TEMPERATURE tb Concentration SEP SEP T SEP SEP Total SEP Trans. SEP SEP T SEP SEP Total SEP Trans. tb Example SEP SEP 400 NM SEP Y, SEP YI SEP 400 SEP NM SEP Y, SEP YI tb Thermal SEP Stabilizer SEP SEP 1 tb 56 SEP 0.06 SEP 18 SEP 86.0 SEP 2.0 SEP 22 SEP 83.5 SEP 6.7 tb 57 SEP 0.10 SEP 5 SEP 85.6 SEP 2.4 SEP 10 SEP 84.5 SEP 5.9 tb 58 SEP 0.30 SEP 0 SEP 86.0 SEP 4.6 SEP 0 SEP 85.2 SEP 7.4 tb Thermal SEP Stabilizer SEP SEP 2 tb 59 SEP 0.05 SEP 12 SEP 85.7 SEP 3.0 SEP 12 SEP 85.7 SEP 4.9 tb 60 SEP 0.10 SEP 6 SEP 86.0 SEP 3.3 SEP 8 SEP 85.9 SEP 5.0 tb 61 SEP 0.30 SEP 0 SEP 86.1 SEP 5.1 SEP 0 SEP 85.5 SEP 7.6 tb Although the invention has been described in detail in the foregoing for the purpose of illustration, it is to be understood that such detail is solely for that purpose and that variations can be made therein by those skilled in the art without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention except as it may be limited by the claims.