# Improved monolithic catalyst support material.

## Abstract
Monolithic catalyst support structures in which a sup port phase of high surface area oxide material is disposed on or within a sintered ceramic material are improved by using a mixture of 50 93 by weight of alumina and 7 50 by weight of silica as the high surface area oxide support phase. The mixtures of alumina and silica retain higher surface area, after firing or exposure to elevated service temperatures, than does either component individually, and thereby impart higher overall surface area to the monolithic support struc tures.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. An improved monolithic catalyst support structure comprising a structural phase of a sintered ceramic material and a high surface area support phase of a porous oxide integral with the structural phase, wherein the porous oxide support phase consists essentially of 50 90 by weight alumina and 7 50 by weight silica. 2. An improved monolithic support according to claim 1, in which the sintered ceramic phase is substantially continuous and in which the high surface area support phase is a substantially discontinuous, discrete, discernible phase embedded in the ceramic phase. 3. An improved monolithic support according to claim 1 or 2, in which the monolith has a surface area of at least 15 m2 g. 4. An improved monolithic support according to any of claims 1 to 3, in the shape of a honeycomb. 5. An improved monolithic support according to any of claims 1 to 4, wherein the support phase consists essentially of 55 85E by weight of alumina and 15 45 by weight of silica. 6. An improved monolithic support according to claim 5, wnerein the support phase consists essentially by weight of alumina and 15 458 by weight of silica. 6. A method according to claim 5 wherein the support phase consists essentially of 65 75t by weight alumina and 25 35 by weight silica. 7. A method according to claim 3 wherein 1 the alumina is formed from a hydrated alumina, said hydrated alumina characterized in that it converts to a transition alumina having a surface area of at least about 300 m2 g after calcination at a temperature of 6000C for one hour and 2 the silica is formed from an amorphous silicahaving a crystallite size no larger than 0.02 micron and a surface area of at least 200 m2 g. CLAIMS 1. A method for the preparatio of a monolithic catalyst support structure which comprises rig together 50 93 by weight alumina and 7 50 by weight silica to form a porous oxide support phase and combining the support phase with a sintered ceramic material to provide a monolithic catalyst support structure comprising a structural phase of a sintered ceramic material and a high surface area support phase of a porous oxide integral with the structural phase. 2. A method according to claim 1, wherein the support phase is co extruded with the ceramic material and, wherein the resulting monolith is fired to provide a monolithic support in which the sintered ceramic phase is substantially continuous and in which the high surface area support phase is a substantially discontinuous, discrete, discernible phase embedded in the ceramic phase. 3. A method according to claim 1 or 2 in which 2 the monolith has a surface area of at least 15 m g. 4. A method according to any of claims 1 to 3, wherein the monolithic support is in the shape of a honeycomb. 5. A method according to any of claims 1 to 4 wherein the support phase consists essentially of 55 85 of 65 75 by weight alumina and 25 35 by weight silica. 7. An improved monolithic support according to claim 3, wherein 1 the alumina is formed from a hydrated alumina, said hydrated alumina characterized in that it converts to a transition alumina having a surface area of at least about 300 m2 g after calcination at a temperature of 6000C for one hour and 2 the silica is formed from amorphous silica having a crystallite size no larger than 0.02 micron and a surface area of at least 200 m2 g.

## Description
IMPROVED MONOLITHIC CATALYST SUPPORT MATERIAL This invention is directed to monolithic catalyst support structures having a sintered ceramic structural phase and a high surface area support phase disposed on or within the ceramic. The invention is particularly directed to catalyst support structures of this kind which are improved by using a mixture of alumina and silica as the high surface area phase. Conventional ceramic monolithic catalyst supports consist of a ceramic support material with a coating o high surface material upon which the catalyst is actuaily deposited. In particular, the ceramic support is normally prepared by sintering a mold of clay or other ceramic material at a high temperature to impart density and strength. This procedure normally results in the ceramic s having a very low surface area, and consequently the ceramic is coated with another material having a higher surface area, as well as specific chemical characteristics, on which to actually deposit the catalyst. This procedure of depositing a high surface area washcoat on the low surface area ceramic wall is disclosed, for example in U.S. Patent Nos. 2,742,437 and 3,824,196.The high surface area washcoats of these catalyst supports, however, often lose the surface area during their service lives because of the high temperatures, such as those of automotive exhaust gases, to which they are exposed. Recently, monolithic supports in which the high surface area phase is incorporated within the ceramic structural phase itself have been developed. In these supports, disclosed in co pending commonly assigned U.S.Serial Numbers 712,875 and 712,886, both filed March 18, 1985 the high surface area material is coextruded with the sinterable ceramic material in a single step, and remains as a discrete phase within the ceramic matrix after the monolith is filed, Catalyst supports of this kind eliminate several mechanical and physical problems of those having an exterior high surface area wwashcoat , but could be susceptible to thermal degredation of the high surface area phase because of exposure to elevated service temperatures. Additionally, because it is coextruded with the ceramic material, the high surface area oxide phase is present during firing of the ceramic and is therefore exposed to the high temperaturesInvolved in that process as well.It is therefore desirable to ash an oxide support material that can retain high surface area respite exposure to elevated temperatures during firing or in service. Alumina and silica mixtures have been used as the supporting material for catalysts. British Patent 1,581,628 broadly discloses the se of alumine silica mixtures as an external washcoat support for catalysts, but discloses no specific compositions or particular preparations. U.S. Patent 4,129,522 discloses the preparation of hydrogel spheres of 27 759 by weight alumina 75 259 by weight silica. These spheres are taught to be useful as catalyst supports, but neither preparation nor service temperatures above 7600C are disclosed, and the patent contains no disclosure of use in a monolithic support structure. U.S.Patent 1,151,121 discloses the use of alumina silica mixtures containing 5 408 by weight alumina, prepared by gelation methods, as a catalyst support phase for incorporation into a granulated catalyst support.U.S. Patent 3,637,525 discloses a monolithic catalyst support in which an alumina silica mixture is combined with boron phosphate to form a singular structural supporting phase for the catalytic materials. The alumina silica mixture is prepared by coprecipitation or cogelation of alumina and silica in a weight ratio of 1.5 1 to 9 1. It is an object of the present invention to provide an improved monolithic catalyst support having a strong structural phase of a sintered ceramic material and a second phase of a high surface area support material integral therewith which resists thermal degredation in service. It .s a further object of the present Invention to provide a monolithic catalyst support of this kind in which the support phase retains high surface area even when subjected to elevated temperatures usec in ceramic firing processes. These and other objects are met by the invention to be described. Summary of the Invention The present invention provides an improved monolithic catalyst support structure comprising a structural phase of a sintered ceramic and a high surface area support phase of a porous oxide integral with the structural phase, wherein the porous oxide support phase consists essentially of 50 93t by weight alumina and 7 508 by weight silica. The alumina silica phase of the present invention retains high surface area despite being subjected to elevated temperatures of ceramic firing and catalytic service.Surprisingly, the physical mixture of alumina and silica used as the support phase of this invention retains higher surface area than either of the components would retain if individually exposed to such conditions. Catalytic activity, which is dependent on surface area, is therefore maintained to a degree greater than that heretofore attainable under simiiar conditions. Increased effectiveness of the catalytic activity in such catalyst support structures as automobile catalytic converters can provide such benefits as increased fuel efficiency.Detailed Description of the Invention The improvements embodied by the present invention relate to the finding that a physical mixture of alumina and silica can be used as the high surface area phase cf a catalyst art system, and despite being subjected to conditions that normally result in thermal degredation, the mixture retains higher surface area per unit of weight than would either fiomponwnt individually. By intimately nixing finely divided powders of alumina and silica, it is believed that sintering of either one is impeded by the presence of the other, and the presence of silica retains the alumina substantially in the more desirable, higher surface area, transition forms. According to the present invention, the high surface area catalyst support phase of a catalyst supporting system such as a monolith consists essentially of about 50 938 by weight alumina and about 7 509 by weight sililca that is, an alumina silica molar ratio of about 1 1.7 to about 7.8 1 . The weight and mole proportions are determined on the basis of dry, calcined alumina and silica.The alumina and silica materials preferred for use are those which, after drying and calcining, have a surface area of at least 40 square meters per gram of weight m g , more preferably at least 100 m g and most preferably at least 200 m2 g. Preferably, the alumina and silica materials have a maximum crystallite size of 0.5 micron. As used herein, calcining means heating a crystalline material to a temperature sufficient to eliminate water from the crystal lattice but below the temperature at which the material begins to lose substantial porosity or surface area. The aluminas useful in the preparation of the nìsh surface area phase of this invention are those which upon calcining, provide gamma alumina or other transition aluminas having the specified surface area. Colloidal gamma alumin zz be used directly, or alumina precursorst such as monohydrate can also be used. The colloidal gamma alumin generally in the form of particles nct exceeding one micron.When alpha alumina monohydrate is used, the particule s be from less than one micron up to about 100 microns, to preferably the particle size does not excd 5 stcross. Suitable commercially available materials of this kind areKaiser SA substrate alumina, available from the Kaiser ChemicalDivision of Kaiser Alumina Corporation the CATAPAL and DISPAL aluminas available from the Chemical Division of ConocoCorporation and the 8YDRAL and F0 series of activated aluminas available from Alcoa Corporation. The high surface area silicas that can be used in the present invention are the amorphous silicas of sub micron crystallite size such asCABOSIL colloidal silica, available from Cabot Corporation, andQUSO G 761 silica available from PO Corporation. The most preferred alumina for use is the Kaiser SA Substrate alumina, and the most preferred silica for use is CABOSIL EH 5 silica. According to the present invention, the high surface area phase of a catalyst support monolith is prepared by mixing the alumina and silica in the proportions dry calcined basis indicated above. Preferred alumina silica mixtures have a molar ratio of alumina to silica of from about 3 1 to 3 4 about 55 85 by weight alumina . most preferred is a molar ratio of about 3 2 about 72 by weight alumina, but more generally about 65 758 by weight alumina . As mentioned, the aluminia and silica components are preferably in the form of a finely dividedarticulate, and are admixed either dry or in a dispersion, as explained more fully below, to substantial hoogeneity. The alumina silica high surface area support phase of tis invention is combined with the ceramic structural phase of 2 monolithic support, to integrate the support phase and structural phase, by any conventional method. In the most well known method, the support material is applied to a preformed ceramic structure as an external washcoat. This is accomplished by providing a well mixed slurry of compounds that are decomposable by heat to alumina and silica, and dipping the ceramic in the slurry or spraying it with the slurry, followed in either case by calcination to generate a tightly adherent coating of alumina and silica on the ceramic wall. In these methods, of course, the proportions of alumina generating and silica generating compounds in the slurry are such as will provide calcined alumina and silica in relative proportions within the above described ranges.Such washcoat procedures are described in U.S. Patents 2,742,437 and 3,824,196, the disclosures of which are hereby incorporated by reference. In a preferred manner of practice, the alumina silica phase is coextruded with the ceramic material of the structural phase of the monolith and, after firing of the monolith, is embedded within the sintered ceramic material as a separate and discrete phase of high surface area material. Two procedures for accomplishing this are disclosed in copending U.S.Application Serial No. 712,886 and Application Serial No.712,875, both filed March 18, 1985. The disclosures of these applications, commonly assigned herewith, are incorporated by reference. According to one procedure, the alumina silica mixture is agglomerated and formed into coarse particles which are then coextruded with finely divided sinterable ceramic material into the desired monolithic shape. Firing the monolithic shape results in the alumina silica mixtures being present within the sintered ceramic as discrete discernible particles. The agglomerates are prepared by mixing the alumina an.9 silica or th.elr precursors with a binder. The binder can be any material which will agglomerate the materials for preparation of the coarse particles, for embedding In the ceramic monolith as a separate discontinuous phase, but which will normally burn off at or before the sintering temperature of the ceramic. The binder can be any of the well known materials for this purpose. Examples are thermosetting resins such as epoxies, polyfurfuryl alcohol, silicone resins, phenolic resins, diallyl phthalate, or polyester resins or a thermoplastic resin such as poly acrylonitrile ,polycarbonates, polyethylene, polymerized ethylenically unsaturated monomers such as poly methyl methacrylate or polystyrene, polyvinyl alcohol, or hydrated methyl cellulose.Most preferred for use as the binder are methyl cellulose, polyvinyl alcohol, or polymerized furfuryl alcohol. The agglomerates are prepared by combining the alumina and silica powders with the binder to form a homogeneous or substantially homogeneous mixture. The amount of binder used is such as will cause the powdery to mass together. Normally 5 60 parts by weight of binder are used per 100 parts by weight of oxide powder. It is preferred to use only about 5 15 parts by weight, although when polymerized furfuryl alcohol is used, the higher levels are sometimes necessary to thoroughly wet and aggregate the powders. The binders can be dispersed or dissolved in a suitable diluent, such as water in the case of methyl cellulose and polyvinyl alcohol, and the powders then added to form a thick slurry. In either case, the mixture of binder and powders is preferably mulled and then extruded to effect further mixing. Extrusion is generally into a shape, preferably noodle shape, which will facilitate drying of the extruded mass. As used herein, drying includes curing the binder, as may be necessary, or driving off any volatiles which may be present in the binder. Accordingly, the mass is dried at a temperature below the sintering temperature of the powders, preferably at room temperature up to about 250 C, and then pulverized to form the coarse particulate agglomerates.Any conventional pulverization techniques can be used but use of a jaw crusher is preferred to attain the desired particle sizes.The particle sizes are preferably such that the median particle diameter is 50 250 microns, more preferably 55 100 microns.Generally, however, the particles are of a size that will not interfere with the subsequent preparation of the ceramic monolith but will result in the presence of a discernible discontinuous phase in the ceramic matrix. The ceramic matrix, which forms the high strength structural phase of the monolith, is comprised of any of the well known sinterable materials capable of providing mechanical strength and good thermal properties in monolithic supports as heretofore prepared by those skilled in the art. Preferably the ceramic is selected from cordierite, mullite, clay, talc, zirconia, zirconia spinel, alumina, silica, lithium aluminosilicates, and alumina zirconia composites. Mixtures of these can also be used to the extent that the chosen materials are compatible and will not degrade each other, as those skilled in the art will recognize. The monolithic supports are prepared by mixing the sinterable ceramic materials with the agglomerate materials described above and, optionally, a binder. Generally about 15 50 parts by weiqht of the agglomerate particles will be combined with 50 85 parts by weight of the ceramic material. Preferably, 3 20 parts by weight of binder will also be used.Binder materials conventionally used in ceramic catalyst support manufacture are suitable. Examples are disclosed in Ceramics Processing Before Firing, ed. by George Y. Onoda, Jr. E L.L. Hench, John Wiley Sons, New York Study of Several Groups of Organic Binders Under Low Pressure Extrusion,1 C.C. Treischel L E.W. Emrich, Jour. Am. Cer. Soc., 29 , pp. 129 132, 1946 Organic Temporary Binders for Ceramic Systems, S. Levine, Ceramic Age, 75 No. 1, pp. 39 , January 1960 Temporary Organic Binders for Ceramic Systems, S. Levine, Ceramic Age, 75 No. 2, pp. 25 , February 1960Preferred are methyl cellulose or a mixture of methyl cellulose and a silicone resin. The silicone resins preferred for use are DowCorning Corporation s 06 2230 silicone resin or those described inU.S.. Patent 3,090,691 to Weyer. The most preferred binder is methyl cellulose, available as METHOCEL A4M from the Dow Chemical Company.Up to about 1 percent by weight, based upon total mixture weight, of a surfactant, such as sodium stearate, can also be used to facilitate mixing and flow for subsequent processing. The mixing step should be performed in a liquid, such as water, which acts as a further plasticizer. When the binder is a silicone resin, it is preferred to use isopropyl alcohol in addition to water. The most preferred ceramic materials are the pre reacted cordierite and mullite. The ceramic material should be in particulate form, preferably of a size finer than 200 mesh U.S.Standard and most preferably finer than 325 mesh U.S. Standard .rhe ceramic particles can be coarser than 200 mesh, but should be at least as fine as the agglomerate particles. the monoliths are prepared by combining the components to orm a nomogeneous or suvstantla11y homogeneous mixture. Conventional mixing equipment can be used, but the use of a mix muller is preferred. To effect further mixing, the batch can subsequently be extruded through a doodling die one or more times. Ultimately, the batch is formed into the desired monolith shape, preferably by extrusion through a die. According to the second procedure for incorporating the alumina silica mixture into the monolith as a discrete discernable support phase, the alumina silica mixture and a ceramic matrix material as described above are separately formed into moldable bodies by admixture with a substance that will bind those materials into a plasticized mass. This binder substance can be any of those described earlier in connection with preparation of the agglomerate ceramic extrusion batch. A preferred binder is methyl cellulose. The constituent materials alumina and silica for the support bodies ceramic material for the structural bodies are separately mixed with sufficient binder to form a moldable mass.Generally, about 1 20 percent by weight, based on the alumina silica or ceramic material weight, of the binder is used. Up to about 1 percent by weight, based upon the total body weight, of surfactant or lubricant such as sodium stearate can also be used to facilate mixing. The mixing step should be performed in a liquid, preferably water, which acs as a further plasticizer. When the binder is a silicone resin, it is preferred to use isopropyl alcohol in addition to water. Conventional mixing equipment can be used, but the use of a mix muller is preferred. The plasticized masses of alumina silica and those of ceramic material are separately molded or formed into discrete bodies which are then intermingled for coextrusion through a die to form the final desired shape of the monolithic catalyst support. Normally, the support bodies and structural bodies will be intermingled to form a composite body thereof in which the support bodies constitute a distinct, preferably discontinuous, phase throughout. The support bodies should also De uniformly or substantially uniformly distributed throughout the composite. To provide the proper distribution, there will normally be a ratio of ceramic structural bodies to alumina 5ilica support bodies of at least about 1.3 1, preferably at least 1.5 1. It is preferred, that the size and shape of the structural bodies and support bodies be about the same. Following this and the above mentioned ratios, the monoliths formed from such a composite contain, as is preferred, about 10 40 percent by weight of the high surface area phase. The composite can be of any size or shape so long as the support bodies are uniformly or substantially uniformly distributed throughout and are present therein in a distinct phase and so long as the composite can be extruded through a die to form the final monolith shape. It is also to be understood that the manner of forming the composite can be by any means by which these criteria are substantially met. In a preferred embodiment of this procedure, the plasticized masses of alumina silica and those of ceramic material are separately extruded through a rod die into bodies of elongate shape, preferably of rectangular, hexagonal, or circular cross section. The extruded bodies are then assembled into a single composite body by intermingling the rods axially or longitudinally.Most preferably, this will be done so that the rods are substantially parallel. The support bodies are positioned to be uniformly or substantially uniformly distributed through the composite. To provide the proper distribution, there will normally be a ratio of ceramic structural bodies to alumina silica support bodies of at least 1.5 1, preferably at least about 2 1 in the composite. After firing, monoliths formed from such a composite will contain, as is preèrable, about 10 40 percent by weight of the high surface area alumina silica phase. Ultimately, the composite is extruded through a die to form the desired shape of the final monolith.. Both this procedure and the one described above relating to the use of agglomerates are well suited for the preparation of monoliths in the shape of honeycombs. The green monolith shapes formed by either of these procedures are heated to a temperature and for a time sufficient to sinter the ceramic material.Optionally1 this heating sintrering step can be preceded by drying the monolith shapes at about 100 120 C The heating sintering step generally takes place at 8000 12000C, although preferably the temperature does not exceed about 1100 1150 C. Despite the temperatures used to sinter the ceramic1 the embedded alumina silica support phase of this invention contains high surface area and preferably provides the monolithic support with an overall surface area of at least 8 10 m g, more preferably at least 15 20 m g. The improvements of the present invention are also applicable to monolithic support structures in which the ceramic phase is formed from a precursor of alumina, silica, titania, or zirconia. In the preparation of such monolithic supports, the alumina silica mixture of the present invention is mixed with one or more of the aforementioned precursor materials which are normally in the form of a dispersion, suspension, or solution in a liquid diluent and a temporary binder to form a substantially homogeneous body which is shaped and fired to form the support. The precursors generate the actual ceramic material at or below the firing temperature of the shaped body. The alumina silica mixture is dispersed throughout the sintered and densified ceramic phase generatedby the precursors and provides a second phase of high surface area support material. The improvement provided by the present invention is particularly.important in the preparation of monolithic supports in which the high surface area support phase is exposed to the elevated temperatures necessary to sinter the ceramic material. One particularly preferred alumina silica mixture contains Saiser SA substrate alumina and CABOSIL silica in an alumina silica molar ratio of 3 2. When this mixture is heated to l2OOCC for a six hour 2 period, it retains a surface area of 53m g.In contrast, the silica subjected individually to those conditions retains a surface 2 area of 0.4 m2 g, and he alumina individually subjected to those conditions reta ins a surface area of 8 . 4m2 g. 5 The improved monolithic supports of this invention may have some catalytic activity of their own by virtue of the chemistry and structure of the high surface area alumina silica phase. The support may further carry additional catalytically active ingredients on the surface area provided by the alumina silica support phase. These additional catalytic ingredients can be incorporated into the monolith by methods known in the art. The improved monolithic supports are useful in most applications in which it is necessary to catalytically convert undesirable components in a gas stream prior to the stream s further processing or exhaustion to the atmosphere.The alumina silica support phase of this invention is also useful in biological applications, such as enzyme processes, in which high surface area substrates are desirable, and in carrying out catalytically activated reactions for be manufacture of chemicals. The following examples are illustrative, but not limiting, of the invention. EXAMPLE 1 Compositions of alumina and silica were prepared from the ingredients indicated in Table 1A. Figures in Table 1A are in parts by weight. The ingredients were intimately dry mixed, then wet mixed with water, followed by drying and reduction to particulate form. The resultant powder formulations were fired at 1000 C, 11000C, and 1200 C for six hours. Some of the formulations were also fired at 10000C or 1200 C for 300 hours to determine the effect of extended exposure to elevated temperatures. The surface area of the fired powder formulations is indicated in Table 1B. The alumina materials used in this example were hydrated aluminas having a weight loss on ignition of about 24 28 . Accordingly, the sezgr. of alumina generated by the materials after firing is less than the indicated weight of the alumina ingredient itself. Examples 1 r 1B are included as controls, the composition being either 100 alumina 1A or 100 silica lB . It can be seen that examples 1D through 1G, which are compositions of the alumina used in control example 1A and the silica used in control example 1B, retain considerably higher surface area after exposure to 1200 C for six hours than does either the alumina or silica alone when subjected to the same conditions. A particularly preferred embodiment of the invention is depicted in Example 1F. TABLE lA Example NumberIngredient 1A 1B 1C 1D 1E 1F 1G 1H 1IKaiser SA 100 93.3 87.4 77.7 63.5 93.3 hydrated Al2O3Conoco DISPAL M 63.5 hydrated Al2O3Cabot CABOSIL EH 5 100 36.5 6.7 12.6 22.3 6.5 16.9 Amophous Sio2 Crystallite Size 0.007 micronPQ Corp QUSO 6.7G 761 hydrophlic SiO2 mean crystallite size 0.015 micronAlcoa HYDRAL 710 83.1 TABLE 1B Surface Area m g Firing Data C hours 1000 6 1100 6 1200 6 1000 300 1200 300Example 1A 8.4 1B 0.4 1C 100 63 21 1D 122 104 61 117 1E 123 99 57 118 1F 164 105 54 118 1G 158 92 43 104 1H 22 11 116 79 36 110 16 EXAMPLE 2 This example illustrates the preparation of high surface area agglomerates based on alumina and silica.The alumina ingredient was Kaiser SA Substrate Alumina, a hydrated alumina which, after heat treatment at 6000C. for one hour, has a weight loss on tgnition of 27 precent and provides gamma alumina having a surface area of about 300m g. The silica ingredient was CABOSILEH 5 silica Cabot Corp. , an amorphous silica having a surface area of 400m2 g and a median crystallite size of 0.007 micron. 93.3 parts by weight of the alumina and 6.72 parts by weight of the silica were pre mixed in a plastic jar on a roller for two hours, About 6 percent by weight of methyl cellulose, based on the alumina silica total weight, was dispersed separately in distilled water which had been heated to SO0C. When the methyl cellulose was sufficiently dispersed, the alumina silica mixture was added. The resultant mixture was stirred by hand and additional water was added, bringing the total water content to 90 parts by weight, until a thick slurry was produced. The slurry was dried overnight at 1750C. to form a hard cake. The cake was crushed into particles of various dimensions for use in Examples 3 5, following. EXAMPLES 3 5 In these examples, compositions of the following inoredients were prepared, as described in the table below, for the fabrication of honeycomb monolithic Supports. Figures represent parts by weight. INGREDIENT EXAMPLE 3 EXAMPLE 4 EXAe.PLE 5Methyl Cellulose 4 4 4Sodium Stearate 0.5 0.5 0.5Distilled Water 43.8 40.6 41.3Pre reacted Cordierite m.p.s. 7.9 microns 50.0 60.0 60.0 m.p.s. 6.8 microns 10.0 Example 2A Agglomerates m.p.s. 80.5 84 microns 40.0 40.0 m.p.s. 62 microns 40 median particle size For each example, the compositions were formulated by combining all ingredients but the water in a plastic jar. The jar contained 1 inch diameter balls from a standard ball mill, 6 balls per 800 grams of material. The jar was rotated until the ingredients were well mixed, after which the ingredients were placed in a mix muller with the water and further mixed until a plasticized batch was attained. The batch was extruded several times through a noodle die to distribute the agglomerate particles throughout the mixture. The compositions of Examples 3 and 4 were extruded through a die to produce honeycomb shapes having 200 square openings per square inch with a wall thickness of 12 mils. The composition ofExample 5 was extruded through a die to produce honeycomb shapes having 400 square openings per square inch with a wall thickness of 5 mils. Honeycomb shapes of each example composition were heated at various temperatures between 1000 12000C. for four hours to sinter the ceramic material. Agglomerate particles of Example 2 were also separately heated so that their characteristics could be ascertained. The physical characteristics, according to heating temperatures of the monoliths and agglomerates above, are shown in the table below. EXAMPLE Heating Temp C. Porosity Thermal Expansion Axial Crushing BET Surface 4 Hours PrecentÚ Coefficient Strengh Area 25 1000 C. PSI m g 1 C 3 1000 60 1100 47 30 x 10 7 350 33 1150 46 27 450 17 1200 48 29 7 4 1000 55.5 1100 42 32 840 39 1150 43 34 1080 19 1200 44 30 2020 8.5 5 1000 57 1100 39 28 350 35.5 1200 43 31 550 10.5 2 1100 100 1150 80 1200 54 ÚMeasured with a Mercury Porosimeter. Measured with a sapphire Porosimeter. EXAMPLE 6 In this example, the following materials were used to form ceramic matrix structural bodies and alumina silica support bodies for co extrusion into monolith form.. Alumina silica Ceramic Material Mixture Pre reacted cordierite, 3 1 mole ratio, dry particle size finer basis, using Kaiser than 200 mesh SA alumina and CABOSIL EH 5 silica The alumina silica material and ceramic material were mixed separately in a mix muller with an additional 6 by weight of METHOCEL A4M methyl cellulose and 0.58 by weight of sodium stearate as lubricant. Distilled water was added to further plasticize the mass. The two mixtures were extruded separately through a noodle die and then, still segregated, through a hexagonal die, to form rods having a hexagonal cross section with 0.25 inch sides. The extruded rods were assembled in a jig in the form of a single composite hexagon, using 24 ceramic material rods and 13 alumina silica rods. The composite was extruded several times through a hexagonal rod die to reduce the cross sectional area of the alumina silica phase and to distribute it through the ceramic material phase. The composite was then extruded through a die to produce a honeycomb shape having 400 square openings per square inch with a wall thickness of 7 mils. The honeycomb shapes were wrapped in aluminum foil and steam dried at 1100C for 16 hours, and then heatcd at various t mperatureS for 4 hours to sinter the ceramic matrix phase. Hexagonal rods of the alumina silica support material were also heated under similar conditions so that their separate characteristics could be ascertained. The surface areas of the honeycomb monoliths and the rods, according to heating temperature, are shown in the following Table. BET Heating Temp. Surface Area C m2 g alumina silica rods 1000 94.6 1100 75.0 1150 64.4 1200 52.1 1250 31.8 honeycomb 1000 22.8 1100 13.8 1150 6.9 1200 4.0 1250 1.4