# WATER ADDITION TO ENHANCE PHOSPHORIC ACID SALT CATALYST ACTIVITY

## Abstract
A method for enhancing the catalytic activity retention of a phosphorus acid salt catalyst, especially a metal acid phosphate during the production of polyalkylene polyamines from the reaction of a feed of i ammonia and or an alkyleneamine compound having at least two amino groups, such as, ethylenediamine, and ii an alkanolamine having at least one amino group, such as, ethanolamine. Sufficient water is utilized in the feed to enhance the catalytic activity retention of the phosphorus acid salt catalyst. When a metal acid phosphate catalyst is used, the water keeps the metal acid phosphate in the acidic state and or returns the metal acid phosphate to the acidic state. The re action is conducted in the gas phase, in the presence of a catalytically effective amount of phosphorus acid salt catalyst and at a temperature sufficient to form the polyalkylene polyamines. Also, when the phosphorus acid salt catalyst has sustained a decrease in the activity during the production of polyalkylene polyamine, water can be added in sufficient amount to increase the activity of the catalyst.

## Claims
1. Method for enhancing the catalytic activity retention of a phosphorus acid salt catalyst during the production of polyalkylene polyamines in a reaction zone from the reaction of a feed of i a reactive nitrogen containing compound selected from the group consisting of ammonia, a primary amine and a secondary amine, and or an alkyleneamine compound having at least two amino groups and ii an alkanolamine having at least one amino group, comprising maintaining sufficient water in said feed to enhance said catalytic activity retention of said phosphorus acid salt catalyst, said reaction being conducted in the gas phase, in the presence of a catalytically effective amount of said phosphorus acid salt catalyst and at a temperature sufficient to form said polyalkylene polyamines.

## Description
The invention relates to the preparation of polyalkylene polyamines. U.S. Patent No. 4,463,193 discloses a process for preparing predominantly noncyclic polyalkylene poly amines. Ammonia or a primary or secondary amine is contacted with an alkanolamine compound having an amino group and a primary or secondary hydroxy group and an alkyleneamine compound having two amino groups in the presence of a catalytically effective amount of a Group IIIB metal acid phosphate. A temperature is used which is sufficient to effect a reaction among the ammonia or amine, the alkanolamine compound and the alkyleneamine compound under a pressure sufficient to maintain a substantial amount of the ammonia or amine in the reaction zone. U.S. Patent No. 4,463,193 does not have any teaching of the addition of water to the reaction zone. U.S. Patent No. 4,044,053 discloses a process for preparing noncyclic polyalkylene polyamines which includes contacting an alkyleneamine compound having two primary amino groups with a diol having primary or secondary hydroxy groups of the general formula On the subject of water, U.S. Patent No. 4,044,053 states concerning its process It is not critical to control the amount of water of reaction present during the heating of reactants and catalyst, such as by removal thereof as it is formed. Usually, we prefer to retain the water in the reaction zone and remove it from the reaction mass during recovery of the predominantly non cyclic polyalkylene polyamines. Col. 6, lines 18 to 24 . The prior art section of U.S. Patent No. 4,044,053 states For example, U.S. Pat. No. 3,121,115 to Meuly teaches a process for aminoalkylating certain amines having a replaceable amino hydrogen, particularly aromatic primary and secondary amines, which includes heating the amine compound with an N tertiary aminoalkanol at from 150 to 250 C. in liquid phase with continuous water removal in the presence of a phosphoric acid compound. Col. 1, lines 55 to 63 U.S. Patent No. 3,121,115 contains a disclosure for the production of aminoalkylated compounds containing tertiary amino groups. The disclosed process involves reacting alkylatable amines or phenols with N tertiary aminoalkanols in the presence of a phosphoric acid catalyst. There is no disclosure of an alkylenediamine reactant, since the patent is limited to specifically describing monoamines or aromatic diamines and there is also no disclosure of a difunctional alkylene glycol or alkanolamine reactant, since the patent is specifically limited to monofunctional, tertiary aminoalkanol reactants. U.S. Patent No. 4,036,881 is very similar to U.S. Patent No. 4,044,053, except that U.S. Patent No. 4,036,881 uses in place of the latter s diols alkanolamine compounds having a primary amino group and a primary or secondary hydroxy group of the general formula U.S. Patent No. 4,103,087 presents a process for reacting tertiary aminoalkanols with monofunctional secondary amines to produce a di N,N disubstituted amino alkane product. A heterogeneous alumina phosphate catalyst is used. U.S. Patent No. 4,103,087 states European Patent Application No. 0069322 discloses the use of certain hydrogen phosphate and pyrophosphate catalysts and certain organic condensation reactions. In some of the disclosed catalytic reactions, presence of water in the reaction zone is disclosed in some instances the water is added as a component of the reactor feed. On page 21 of such European Patent Application, diethyleneglycol was passed over a SrHPO₄ catalyst in the presence of water, the feed containing the diethyleneglycol in water. As further stated that SrHPO₄ is a highly selective catalyst. On page 22 concerning the same example, the European Patent Application states The addition of water to the organic feeds may be desirable to prevent loss of catalyst activity as a result of dehydration of the SrHPO₄ to the pyrophosphate. The above quotation appears to be in conflict with some of the primary teachings of the European Patent Applica tion, namely page 4 thereof which states The pyrophosphate form of the catalysts of the present invention are prepared by heat treating the metal monohydrogen or dihydrogen phosphate product at temperatures above about 300 C up to 750 C in the presence of a mixture of steam and air, preferably at least about 20 by volume of steam. Page 4 specifically teaches that the pyrophosphate form of the catalyst can be prepared from the metal mono hydrogen phosphate by treating them at a higher temper ature in the presence of large amounts of steam and air. It is noted that apparently all of the hourly space velocity in the European Patent Application are liquid hourly space velocity which are measured as volumes of liquid per volume of catalyst. Referring again to U.S. Patent No. 4,036,881, attention is drawn to Example II wherein an aqueous solution of ethylenediamine and a smaller amount of boron phosphate were charged to a reactor and placed under a nitrogen atmosphere. The reactor was run at 275 to 280 C. and at a pressure of 525 to 560 p.s.i.g. for two hours. The only polyamine present in the reactor mix was ethylenediamine. Example II specifically states indicating no reaction had occurred. Metal acid phosphate catalysts tend to lose any meaningful activity after a relatively short time period of reaction. This means that the reactor must be shut down frequently to reactivate the catalyst. Also, the activity of metal acid phosphate catalysts drops rapidly during a run. The result is an economic loss due to the decreased conversion rate achieved in such reactors. The invention broadly involves enhancing or main taining the activity of phosphorus acid salt catalysts used in the production of polyalkylene polyamines. More specifically, the invention provides means for prolong ing the catalytic activity of a phosphorus acid salt catalyst during such gas phase reaction and also provides means for increasing the catalytic activity of a phosphorus acid salt catalyst which has partially lost activity during such reaction. The invention involves a method for enhancing the catalytic activity retention of a phosphorus acid salt catalyst during the production of polyalkylene polyamines from the reaction of a feed of i of a reactive nitrogen containing compound selected from the groups consisting of ammonia, a primary amine and a secondary amine, and or an alkyleneamine compound having at least two amino groups and ii an alkanolamine having at least one amino group. The reaction is conducted in the gas phase, in the presence of a catalytically effective amount of a phosphorus acid salt catalyst and at a temperature sufficient to form the polyalkylene polyamines. Sufficient water is maintained in the feed to maintain the catalytic activity enhance the catalytic activity retention of the phosphorus acid salt catalyst during the course of the reaction. An important advantage of the invention is the fact that the increased catalyst life means that the reaction process can be run for much longer times without having to shut down the reactor to regenerate the catalyst. As is explained below, water can also be added during a reactor run to regenerate a catalyst that has reduced catalytic activity. Such procedure provides the advantage that the reaction process does not have to be stopped to regenerate a catalyst which has lost its activity during such continuous production run. The reaction is thought to proceed, for example, by the reaction of ethylenediamine with monoethanolamine to form diethylenetriamine and a molar equivalent of water. The catalyst used in the invention process can be any salt of a phosphoric acid that has amination cata lytic action at high temperatures as defined and spec ified herein . The water addition or inclusion in the reactor feed provides continuous hydrolysis of the phosphorus acid salt catalyst and prevents the formation of undesirable phosphoric amides and esters. Also, the hydrolysis prevents the phosphoric acid salts from being converted into pyrophosphates. Enough water is added to the feed to provide the sufficient amount of water in the feed needed to maintain the catalytic activity. If, before the feed is fed into the reaction zone, the feed contains an amount of water which is insufficient, enough additional water can be added to the feed to provide the sufficient amount of water needed to maintain the catalytic activity. Advantageously, the water, ammonia, alkylenemine compound and alkanolamine compound can be mixed and fed into the reaction zone. Also, when the ammonia, alkyleneamine compound and alkanolamine compound are separately fed into the reaction zone, advantageously enough water is added to the ammonia or the alkyleneamine compound or the alkanolamine compound to provide the sufficient amount of water in the feed needed to maintain the catalytic activity. Preferably the amount of water used in the feed is 1 to 50 weight percent, based on the total weight of the alkyleneamine compound and the alkanolamine compound, and most preferably the amount of water used in the feed is 10 to 25 weight percent, based on the total weight of the alkyleneamine compound and the alkanolamine com pound. When an alkyleneamine is not in the feed, then such water weight percentages are based only on the alkanolamine. The invention process provides excellent results when the alkyleneamine compound is ethylenediamine and the alkanolamine compound is ethanolamine. A particularly advantageous embodiment of the invention process is where water, which has been separa ted from the reaction mixture resulting from the reac tion, is recycled and added to the feed to provide the sufficient amount of water in the feed needed to maintain the catalytic activity. Preferably the separated water is in the form of an azeotropic mixture of a water and b the alkyleneamine compound. Preferably the phosphorus acid salt catalyst is a metal acid phosphate catalyst. In such instance, sufficient water is maintained in the feed to keep the metal acid phosphate in the acid state. One group of preferred catalysts are the Group IIIB metal phosphates, Group IIIB metal monohydrogen phosphates and Group IIIB metal dihydrogen phosphates supported on an inert carrier. Somewhat high reaction temperatures are used with the Group IIIB metal acid phosphate catalysts. The catalyst can be impregnated on a support material which is alumina, silica, silica alumina, diatomaceous earth or silica titania. The invention process is preferably conducted so that the reaction occurs in the vapor phase or super critical phase. For purposes herein, the term gas phase encompasses both the vapor phase and supercritical phase. The reaction is conducted at a pressure of about 50 to 4,000 p.s.i.g. The reaction is best conducted at a temperature high enough to keep the reactants above their dew points. This may also mean at a pressure first defined by temperature which expresses the first quadrant using the critical point as the origin. The pressure in the reaction zone is preferably between 100 and 2,000 p.s.i.g. A nonaqueous, gaseous diluent can also be fed into the reaction zone. Examples of suitable diluents are methane, hydrogen, nitrogen or argon. The liquid hourly space velocity pounds of feed per pound of catalyst per hour of the reactants is between about 0.1 and about 100 per hour and preferably between 1 and 25 hr ¹. Preferably the reaction is conducted at a temperature between 220 and 350 C. and most preferably at 260 to 300 . Also preferably the reaction is conducted as a continuous reaction. The invention also involves a method for increasing the catalytic activity of a phosphorus acid salt catalyst during the production of polyalkylene poly amines from the reaction of a feed of i of a reactive nitrogen containing compound selected from the groups consisting of ammonia, a primary amine and a secondary amine, and or an alkyleneamine compound having at least two amino groups and ii an alkanolamine having at least one amino group. The reaction is conducted in the presence of a catalytically effective amount of a phosphorus acid salt catalyst and at a temperature sufficient to form the polyalkylene polyamines. This embodiment of the invention involves the situation where the catalytic activity of phosphorus acid salt catalyst has decreased during the course of the reaction. Sufficient water is then included in the feed to increase or enhance the catalytic activity of the phosphorus acid salt catalyst at that point in the reaction. Preferably enough water is included in the feed to substantially restore the catalytic activity of the catalyst to the level it had at the start of the reaction. Also it is preferable to thereafter maintain sufficient water in the feed to maintain the catalytic activity of the phosphorus acid salt catalyst during the remainder of the reaction. As used herein, all parts, percentages, ratios and proportions are on a weight basis and all temperatures are in degrees Centigrade, unless otherwise stated or otherwise obvious herefrom. Also as used herein, the term ethanolamine specifically means monoethanolamine unless otherwise indicated or implied herein. U.S. Sieve Series mesh sizes are used herein. The alkyleneamine having at least two amino groups is preferably an unbranched alkylene moiety, such as, ethylenediamine, and preferably has primary amino groups. The alkanolamine preferably has a primary or secondary hydroxy moiety and preferably a primary amino group s . Preferably, the alkanolamine has an unbranch ed alkylene moiety. The alkanolamine compounds used in the invention process include those represented by the formula The alkyleneamine reactants used in the invention process are represented by the formula Generally, the mole ratio of alkyleneamine compound to alkanolamine compound can range from about 0.05 1 to 12 1, and preferably is about 1 4 to 4 1. The invention process predominantly produces noncyclic polyalkylene polyamines. Noncyclic poly alkylene polyamines that are generally produced by the reaction of ammonia and alkanolamine plus an alkylenediamine are represented by the formula Noncyclic polyalkylene polyamines include polyalkylene polyamines having straight chained and or branched alkylene groups. Cyclic polyalkylane polyamines that are produced by the reaction of a an alkyleneamine and an alkanolamine or b ammonia, an alkyleneamine and an alkanolamine or c an alkanolamine and ammonia are represented, for example by the following formula Examples of cyclic polyalkylene polyamines are pierazine, N 2 hydroxyethyl piperazine, N,N di hydroxyethyl piperazine, N hydroxyethyl 2 methylpiperazine, N,N di hydroxyethyl 2 methyl piperazine, N hydroxyethyl 2 ethylpiperazine, N,N di hydroxyethyl 2 ethylpiperazine, N hydroxy ethyl 2 butylpiperazine, N,N di hydroxyethyl 2 butylpiperazine, N hydroxyethyl 2 dodecylpiperazine, N hydroxyethyl 2 cyclohexylpiperazine, N hydroxy ethyl 2 hexylcyclohexylpiperazine, N,N dihydroxy ethyl 2,5 dimethylpiperazine, N hydroxyethyl 2,3,5,6 tetramethylpiperazine, N,N di hydroxyethyl 2,5 dimethylpiperazine, N hydroxyethyl 2,5 diethylpiperazine, N hydroxyethyl diethylenetriamine, N hydroxypropyl diethylenetriamine, N 2 hydroxy propyl diethylenetriamine, N 2 hydroxybutyl diethylene triamine, N hydroxyethyl diproprylenetriamine, N hydroxypropyl dipropylenetriamine, N 2 hydroxy butyl dipropylenetriamine and morpholine. The phrase predominantly noncyclic polyalkylene polyamines is meant to mean that such polyalkylene polyamines are mostly of the noncyclic species. In the reactor, the temperature for the reaction depends upon the particular starting material, ratios of reactants, and most importantly, the activity of the catalyst used. Generally, in processes of the inven tion, temperatures within the range of 125 to 425 C. are suitable while a preferred range is 220 to 350 C. and the most preferred range is 260 to 300 C. Diluent gas can be utilized to help in the control of the reaction temperature and assist in maintaining the desired pressure. A relatively high pressure of the reaction is also preferred. Normally, a nonaqueous diluent, such as, hydrogen, helium, nitrogen, methane or argon, can be added to increase the pressure in the reactor. The pressure at the time of reaction should normally be within the range from about 50 to about 4,000 p.s.i.g., preferably greater than 100 p.s.i.g., and most preferably from 200 to about 2,000 p.s.i.g. The reaction is best conducted at a temperature high enough to keep the reactants above their dew point. This may also mean at a pressure first defined by temperature which expresses the first quadrant using the critical point as the origin. The reaction is preferably conducted in the vapor phase, but can be conducted in the supercritical phase. The liquid hourly space velocity of the reactants EDA and MEA or EDA, MEA and NH₃ is between about 0.1 and about 100 per hour and preferably between about 1 and about 25 per hour. By reaction zone is meant that vessel, e.g., autoclave, continuous stirred tank reactor or packed bed reactor, in which the catalyst is located and production of polyalkylene polyamines is effected. Although the reactions can be carried out in the batch mode, they are preferably conducted as continuous processes, for example, operation of a continuously stirred tank reactor or a packed fixed bed reactor. The continuous process is carried out by employing conventional process techniques and apparatus well known to those skilled in the art. In the continuous reaction processes, the catalyst can be added alone or in combination with the reactants, or, as stated above, the catalyst can be provided as a fixed bed on conventional support materials well known to those skilled in the art. The reaction is allowed to proceed until a desired conversion is obtained or the reaction is complete. Normally the reaction is carried out within about 0.5 to 5 hours in the batch mode or residence times based on the alkanolamine and alkyleneamine components of 0.1 to 4.0 hours in a continuous mode for practical levels of polyalkylene polyamine production. The reactor can be an up flow or down flow reactor and can have a fluidized bed or, most commonly, a fixed bed. The catalyst bed can contain inert particles which can be interspersed throughout the bed and or form discrete layers, e.g., at an end or intermediary to the bed. The volume of the reaction zone containing such inert particles is the reaction zone volume for purposes of determining the feed rate. Preferably, the space velocity should not be so high that for the reactor geometry, a significant amount of backmixing occurs. Advantageously, the flow through the catalyst bed is substantially plug type flow. Ammonia or a primary amine or secondary amine can also be used in the feed to the reactor. The ammonia is both a reactant and a diluent when excess of it is present in the invention process. When ammonia is used, the mole ratio of ammonia or the primary amine or the secondary amine to the combination of ethylenediamine and monoethanolamine is usually in the range of 20 1 to 0.6 20 and preferably in the range of 12 1.25 to 1 1. The ratios apply also to where the feed only contains ammonia or amine and monoethenolamine. Ammonia and the preferred primary and secondary amines which are used in the invention process are represented by the formula Use of secondary amines instead of ammonia leads to polyalkylene polyamines containing terminal dialkylamino groups. Alternatively, use of primary amines instead of ammonia leads to polyamines which contain randomly distributed monoalkylamino groups. The catalysts used in the invention are hetero geneous catalysts. The catalysts are used in an amount of 0.1 to 12 weight percent, preferably 0.5 to 10 weight percent, and most preferably 2 to 7 weight percent, based on the total weight of the reactants. The catalyst used in the invention process can be any salt of a phosphorus acid that has amination catalytic action at high temperatures as defined and specified herein . The water addition or inclusion in the reactor feed provides continuous hydrolysis of the phosphorus acid salt catalyst and prevents the formation of undesirable phosphorus amides and esters. Also, the hydrolysis prevents the phosphorus acid salts from being converted into pyrophosphates. Within such parameters, generally any phosphorus acid salt catalyst can be used. One group of preferred phosphorus acid salt catalyst are the metal phosphate catalysts, which can be metal phosphates, metal monohydrogen phosphates and metal dihydrogen phosphates. The metal phosphate catalysts include boron phosphate, aluminum phosphate, ferric phosphate, zinc phosphate, ferrous phosphate, nickel phosphate, chromium phosphate, copper phosphate and cobalt phosphate. Other metal phosphate catalysts which can be used are the phosphates of lithium, sodium, potassium, other metals of Group IA of the periodic tables, beryllium, mag nesium, calcium, other metals of Group IIA of the periodic tables, titanium, zirconium, or other metals of Group IVB of the periodic table, antimony and tin valence states II and IV . Further useful catalysts are those phosphoric acid salts which comprise a phosphorus bonded to a Group IVB transition metal oxide support, such as is disclosed in published European Patent Application 0115138 the pertinent parts of which are incorporated herein by reference . Mixtures of two or more of the metal phosphate catalysts can be used. The metal phosphate catalysts also include the pyrophosphates, monohydrogen phosphates and dihydrogen phosphates of strontium, copper, magnesium, calcium, barium, zinc, aluminum, cobalt, nickel cerium, neodymium, and mixtures thereof. Specific examples of such catalysts are SrHPO₄, Sr BaHPO₄, Sr H₂PO₄ ₂, Ca H₂PO₄ ₂, Nd₂ HPO₄ ₃, Ce₂ HPO₄ ₃, CoHPO₄, NiHPO₄, Al₂ HPO₄ ₃, MgHPO₄, BaHPO₄, CuHPO₄ and ZnHPO₄. The metal phosphate catalysts include crystalline zirconium phosphate U.S. Patent No. 3,416,884 and granular zirconium phosphate U.S. Patent No. 4,025,608 the pertinent parts of such patents are incorporated herein by reference. The metal phosphate catalysts which are most preferred for practicing the process of the invention are Group IIIB metal acid phosphates including Group IIIB metal phosphates, monohydrogen phosphates, dihydrogen phosphates and mixtures thereof. U.S. Patent No. 4,463,193 the pertinent parts of such patent are incorporated herein by reference discloses processes for preparing the Group IIIB metal acid phosphates. While the intent of the catalyst preparation is to specifically provide a particular Group IIIB mono hydrogen phosphate or dihydrogen phosphate, mixtures of the Group IIIB metal phosphates of the above mentioned types may be obtained owing to complicated dependence of the catalyst composition on preparation conditions. Nevertheless, although the Group IIIB metal acid phosphate catalyst of the invention comprises the metal phosphate, monohydrogen phosphate, dihydrogen phosphate or mixtures thereof, the monohydrogen and dihydrogen phosphates of the Group IIIB metals are the preferred catalysts when in relatively pure form individually or in combination. A Group IIIB metal is meant to include scandium, yttrium, lanthanum and the rare earth lanthanide metals having atomic numbers 58 to 71, and the rare earth actinides having atomic numbers 89 to 92. The most preferred metal phosphate catalysts for the production of noncyclic polyalkylene polyamines are the acid phosphates, preferably the monohydrogen phosphates and dihydrogen phosphates, of scandium, lanthanum, cerium, samarium, europium, thulium, erbium, ytterbium, yttrium, lutetium, thorium, neodymium, praseodymium, dysprosium and gadolinium. The acid phosphate catalysts can be used for the production of polyalkylene polyamines either singly or in combination. It is preferred to use those which are more cata lytically active and provide for substantial conversion to the noncyclic polyalkylene polyamine products. Exam ples of the most preferred catalyst compounds include lanthanum monohydrogen phosphate, lanthanum dihydrogen phosphate, lanthanum phosphate, praseodymium monohydro gen phosphate, praseodymium dihydrogen phosphate, prase odymium phosphates, neodymium monohydrogen phosphate, neodymium dihydrogen phosphate, neodymium phosphate and mixtures thereof. The quantity of the acid phosphate salts of the Group IIIB metals used in the reaction can vary widely depending upon the reactivity of the catalysts and the reactivity of the reactants present. A catalytically effective amount of material is used in other words, an amount which causes a reaction, the alkyleneamine com pound and the alkanolamine compound to yield polyalky lene polyamine products at the temperature and pressure used. Usually though, the amount used to provide a catalytic effect ranges from about 0.1 to 25 mole percent based upon the total amount of alkyleneamine compound and alkanolamine compound feed present in the reaction mixture, and preferably is an amount of about 0.1 to 10 mole percent. Within these ranges though, the level of catalyst is empirical and is adjusted depending on the product slate desired. The Group IIIB metal phosphate catalysts used in the process of the invention can be prepared by the precipitation of the desired metal acid phosphate salt, washing the salt to remove inorganic coproducts and drying the salt. Optionally, dried catalysts can be further processed prior to use for polyalkylene polyamine manufacture. Such process is well known to those skilled in the art and includes extrusion or pelletizing or compounding with an inert support such as alpha alumina. Methods of preparing Group IIIB metal monohydrogen phosphate or dihydrogen phosphate are disclosed in U.S. Patent No. 4,324,917 the pertinent parts of the patent are incorporated herein by reference . Phosphoric acid salt materials can be obtained which consist predomi nantly of the Group IIIB metal phosphate, the Group IIIB metal monohydrogen phosphate, the Group IIIB metal dihydrogen phosphate, or mixtures in varying proportions of the Group IIIB metal monohydrogen and dihydrogen phosphate, and or mixtures in varying proportions of any of the above Group IIIB metal acid phosphates with the Group IIIB metal phosphate. Such variations in catalyst composition can result from dependence of the catalyst composition on preparation conditions, such as tempera ture, concentration of reagents, stoichiometry of re agents, rate and order of reagent additions, pH of pre paration, duration of preparation, volume and pH of water wash, duration of catalyst washing, and duration and temperature of catalyst drying. In any event, the Group IIIB metal acid phosphates obtained according to the general preparations referred to above are cata lytically active for the production of polyalkylene polyamines. Published European Patent Application 0115138 the pertinent parts of which are incorporated herein by reference discloses method for preparing phosphoric acid salt catalysts comprising a phosphorus bonded to a Group IVB metal oxide support. Any appropriate liquid or liquefiable phosphorus compound can be used as a source of the phosphorus. Useful phosphorus compounds include phosphoric acid, phosphorus acid, polyphosphoric acid, alkyl phosphates and alkyl phosphites such as trimethyl phosphate, triethyl phosphate, trimethyl phosphite, triethyl phosphite, etc. may be utilized. Also, a diaminohydrogen phosphate such as diammonium hydrogen phosphate, NH₄ ₂HPO₄, dimethyldiamino hydrogen phosphate, diethylamino hydrogen phosphate, etc. may be used. The catalyst compositions are prepared by depositing a phosphorus compound on a support comprising an oxide of a group IVb transition metal oxide. The group IVb transition metal oxides include the oxides of titanium, zirconium, hafnium and thorium. Pellets of the group IVb metal oxide may be prepared by extrusion or by compaction in conventional pelleting apparatus using a pelleting aid such as graphite. The phosphorus compound can be deposited on a powdered IVb metal oxide followed by pelleting and calcination. Preferably the catalyst composition is prepared by impregnating a preformed pellet. A suitable procedure to be used is to heat a liquid containing the liquid or liquefiable phosphorus compound at a temperature of about 100 to about 150 and to then add pellets in an amount about equal to the volume of the heated liquid. This treatment should be continued from about 0.5 to about 5 hours. At the end of that time, the resulting mixture of pellets and liquid is cooled, decanted to remove excess liquid followed by washing with an amount of water adequate to substantially completely remove unadsorbed liquid. Temperatures above 150 C can be used, if desired, but there is no particular advantage in doing so. It will be understood that the phosphorous that is present on a thus treated pellet is not present as elemental phosphorous, but rather as phosphorous that is chemically bound, probably as an oxide, to the group IVb metal oxide support. However, the exact nature of the bonding is not completely understood. European Patent Application 0115138 discloses amount of phosphourous that is bonded or otherwise adheres to the support is a function of heating and other conditions used in the treating step and is also a function of the chemical identity of the phosphorous compound that is used as a source of phosphorus. Under the treating conditions exemplified above, at least about 2.5 weight percent of phosphorus is caused to bond or otherwise permanently adhere to the pellets. There is an upper limit to the amount of phosphorus that bonds or otherwise permanently adheres to the support. This upper limit is, as indicated, a function of both the treating conditions and the chemical used as a source of the phosphorus. Normally, the maximum amount of phosphorus that can be caused to bond or otherwise permanently adhere to the pellets is within the range of about 5 to 10 weight percent. As a matter of convenience, the normal practice is to use only one chemical as a phosphorus source e.g., phosphoric acid . However, mixtures of two or more such reagents may be used, if desired. Calcining is not mandatory if the pellets are impregnated at least about 100 C, but the pellets can be calcined, if desired. Calcining is conducted for 2 to 24 hours at a temperature of 100 C or more but below the temperature at which thermal destruction of the phosphorus bonding occurs. This can be determined experimentally for a particular catalyst. Temperatures above 900 C, should be avoided. A suitable calcining temperature range is normally 200 to 800 C and, more preferably 500 to 700 C. Other procedures can be used in adding phosphorous to the group IVb metal oxide. The pertinent parts of copending, commonly assigned U.S. Application Serial No. 576,807, filed on February 7, 1984, are incorporated herein by reference. U.S. Serial No. 576,807 discloses certain phosphorus acid salt catalysts within the scope of the invention herein, provided the ester or amide derivatives are not used. The term phosphorus acid or acid derivative defines compounds having a P X bond wherein P is a phosphorus atom bonded to a halogen, oxygen, sulfur or nitrogen atom is X which is a radical capable of hydrolyzing to produce the corresponding phosphorus acid structure. Phosphorus containing compounds such as trialkyl and triaryl phosphines and phosphine oxides, which contain no such exchangeable substructure, do not function as catalysts as defined in U.S. Serial No. 576,807. Very sterically hindered phosphorus compounds such as hexaethyl phosphoric triamide, while containing the requisite exchangeable substructure and functioning to some extent, are less preferred catalysts because they undergo the exchange process with the alkanolamine or alkylene glycol hydroxyl moieties only slowly. Phos phorus acids are defined by those structures wherein X in the P X radical is a hydroxyl radical. Acid deriva tives are defined by structures wherein X is a substi tute functional group. Various suitable acid deriva tives are salts when X is O M is a mono or polyvalent cation. The precise phosphorus acid salt derivative structure is not critical so long as it fulfills the following two functional requirements 1 that it provides for the relatively selective production of predominantly linearly extended polyalkylene polyamines and 2 that it enables increased conversion rates for polyalkylene polyamine production when water is removed during the reaction, possibly due to the water inhibited formation of a phosphorus intermediate compound during the reaction. The phosphorus acid salt derivative catalysts of U.S. Ser. No. 576,807 include those having the structure Suitable phosphorus acid salt derivatives of U.S. Ser. No. 576,807 which can be employed include, for example, acidic metal or semi metal phosphates, phos phoric acid compounds, alkyl or aryl phosphates, alkyl or aryl phosphites, alkali metal monosalts of phosphoric acid, and mixtures of any of the above. Suitable acidic metal or semi metal phosphates include boron phosphate, ferric phosphate, aluminium phosphate and the like. Any commercially available mono , di , or trialky or aryl phosphate or phosphate ester can be employed. In addition, bis phosphates , such as those disclosed in U.S. Patent No. 3,869,526, can be utilized. Preferred phosphorus catalyst include boron phosphate, ferric phosphate, aluminium phosphate, phosphoric acid and phosphorous acid. The amount of phosphorus acid salt acid derivative catalyst of U.S. Ser. No. 576,807 utilized is a cataly tically effective amount to cause condensation of the reactants to produce predominantly diethylenetriamine. This quantity will vary depending upon the reaction conditions and catalyst utilized. Usually a catalyti cally effective amount will be from about 0.01 to about 10 mole percent and preferably from about 1 to about 3 mole percent, based on the moles of hydroxy alkylene compound used. Any of the phosphorus acid salt catalysts useful in the invention can be supported on carriers, such as, silica, silica alumina, silica titania, alumina, dia tomaceous earth kieselguhr and any other conventional ly employed inert reactor packing material. Generally, the catalysts are supported. The active catalyst species are provided on the surface of the support through, for example, coating or impregnation. The catalyst say metal components on the support often comprise about 1 to 50, say, about 3 to 30, weight percent of the catalyst. Useful supports can be porous and have surface areas of from about 0.1 to 500, say, about 0.3 to 100, square meters per gram. The catalyst can be of any convenient size or shape. Catalysts can be made in the form of powders, spherical or conical pellets, extruded strips and the like. Impreganted spherical pellets ranging in dia meter from 1 8 inch to 3 16 inch and extruded strips of a cylindrical type shape ranging from 1 32 inch to 1 2 inch in length are typical of those which can be used as supports. Often, for commercial scale operations, the pellets range in diameter from about 0.1 to 1 centi meter. As the reaction process progresses, the phosphorus acid salt catalyst is normally deactivated and after a period of time it needs to be regenerated. The use of the invention, namely, the addition of water to the feed going into the reaction zone, can greatly prolong the life of the catalyst so that a high level of catalyti cal activity is achieved over a greatly extended period of time. The invention is further of use in adding water to a feed after a catalyst has lost some of its activity during a reaction run. In such instance, the catalyst can be brought back up to substantially its initial level of activity. By adding water thereafter on a continuous basis to the feed the regenerated catalyst activity level can be maintained for a very long time much longer than the normal catalyst life when the addition of water in made . The level of water that is added in the feed is preferably at a level of 1 to 50 weight percent, most preferably about 10 to 25 weight percent, based upon the total weight of the alkyleneamine and the alkanolamine. The water can be added into the feed and the components can be admixed, or the water can be admixed with one of the reactants and fed into the reaction zone, or the reactants and water can all be separatly added to the reaction zone. It is possible to admix the water intermittently with the alkyleneamine and or the alkanolamine and feeding such mixture s into the reaction. It is by far more advantageous to add sufficient water on a continuous basis to the feed so as to maintain the catalyst at its highest level of activity during the entire length of the reaction run. Recovery of the polyalkylene polyamines, alkanolamine and alkylenediamine from the reaction mixture from the reactor can be accomplished by conventional techniques. Preferably the separation step is conducted using distillation. Most preferably the separation is conducted using a fractional distillation column with the polyethylene polyamines coming off of the bottom of the column and with the unreacted alkanolamine and alkylenediamine coming off of the top portion of the column. With a fractional distillation column, for example, having 10 trays, a pressure of 1000 p.s.i.g. and a base temperature of 220 C., 90 mole percent of the unreacted ethanolamine and ethylenediamine come off of the top of the column with the unreacted NH₃ and H₂, and 90 mole percent of the diethylenetriamine comes off of the bottom of the column. The separation can be conducted in adsorbers, with the adsorbing liquids removing the polyalkylene polyamines from unreacted alkanolamine and alkylenediamine. Preferably the adsorbing liquid for the polyalkylene polyamines is triethylenetetraamine or a higher boiling adsorbent. The separation can also be conducted using a series of partial condensers. The alkanolamine and alkylene diamine condense out in the last of the partial con densers, and the polyalkylene polyamines condense out in the first of the partial condensers. Preferably 3 to 5 partial condensers are used. During separation of the various components in the product feed coming out of the reaction zone, water can also be separated out and recycled. Most preferably the recycled water is in the form of an azeotrope with the unreacted alkyleneamine. By recycling the water in the form of an azeotrope with one or both of the unreacted components, considerable energy is saved in the separation step. Polyethylene polyamines are useful as corrosion inhibitors, fabric softeners, lubricating oil additives, co monomers for polyamide resins, fungicides, surfac tants, curing agents for epoxy resins and chelating agents. Copending, commonly asigned patent application entitled Interreactor Separator , D 14871 , con currently filed with this application, is incorporated herein by reference. Such application discloses the use of a reductive amination reaction zone from which its effluent is separated into a, preferably, gaseous, MEA and EDA containing phase and a liquid, DETA rich phase. The gas phase can be used for recycle advantageously , it is at high pressure and suitable for recycle without undue energy penalties or as a feed to another reactor which can use a reductive amination or other type e.g., phosphorus based catalyst of catalyst. Copending, commonly assigned patent application entitled, Improving The Quality Of Catalytically Prepared Polyalkylene Polyamines , D 14872 , con currently filed with this application, is incorporated herein by reference. Such application discloses processes for making polyalkylene polyamines from ethanolamines and a nitrogen compound e.g., ammonia or alkyleneamine using a phosphorus based catalyst in the presence of sufficient hydrogen to enhance color and reduce odor. Copending, commonly assigned patent application entitled Conversion Of Oxygen Containing Polyamines , D 14873 , concurrently filed with this application, is incorporated herein by reference. Such application discloses, in its broadest aspect, passing an oxygenated, polyethylenepolyamine feed in the presence of a nitrogen compound to a reaction zone containing a phosphorus based catalyst. Advantageously, this feed is obtained from a polyethylenepolyamine reactor having a reductive amination catalyst. The feed typically contains AEEA. Copending, commonly assigned patent application entitled Two Reactor Scheme Using Only Phosphorus Containing Catalysts , D 14874 , concurrently filed with this application. Such application discloses passing an oxygenated, polyethylenepolyamine feed in the presence of a nitrogen compound to a reaction zone containing a phosphorus based catalyst. This feed is obtained from a polyethylenepolyamine reactor having a phosphorus based catalyst. The feed typically contains AEEA. Copending, commonly assigned patent application entitled Interchangeable Process Scheme , D 14875 , concurrently filed with this application, is incor porated herein by reference. Such application discloses processes for making and separating ethyleneamines, alkylamines, morpholine, etc., in the same proces equipment. The separation systems required for these processes are very similar. Hence, block operation in the same reactor and separation equipment is achieved. Copending, commonly assigned patent application entitled Preparation of Diethylenetriamine With Azeotrope Recycle , D 14876 , concurrently filed with this application, is incorporated herein by reference. Such application discloses processes for making ethyleneamines using a reductive amination or phos phorus based catalyst in which a gaseous EDA water phase is separated from the reactor effluent and at least a portion of the separated phase is returned to the reactor. In a preferred embodiment using a reductive amination catalyst, the recycle stream is admixed with MEA to break the azeotrope with water condensing out. Copending, commonly assigned patent application entitled Use of Pressure To Control the Noncyclics Cyclics Ratio of Polyalkylene Polyamines , D 14878 , concurrently filed with this application, is incor porated herein by reference. Such application discloses processes for producing polyalkylenepolyamines over phosphorus based catalysts in which control of the ratio of noncyclic to cyclic products is achieved by control ling the level of the reaction pressure. The following compound abbreviations apply herein EDA ethylenediamine MEA monoethanolamine PIP piperazine AEP aminoethylpiperazine DETA diethylenetriamine TETA NC treithylenetetramine noncyclic isomers TETA C triethylenetetramine cyclic isomers TEPA NC tetraethylenepentamine noncyclic isomers TEPA C tetraethylenepentamine cyclic isomers HVY NC pentaethylenehexamine and higher oligomeric polyethylene amines The following example illustrates the practice of the invention Lanthanum acid phosphate 10 cm³ of 12 to 18 mesh particles is charged to a fixed bed tubular reactor 18 cm³ total volume and is overlaid with crushed vicor 5 cm³ of 12 to 18 mesh particles . The reactor is heated to 265 C. in an insulated air oven. A mixture of ethylenediamine, monoethanolamine and ammonia mole ratio EDA MEA NH₃ is 1 1 6.9 , plus 20 weight percent of water based on the EDA and MEA , is passed over the catalyst at 1400 p.s.i.g. at a liquid hourly space velocity of 3.5 hr ¹, based on the EDA and MEA. Analysis of the cooled reaction product by gas liquid chromatography indicates substantial production of predominantly noncyclic polyamines for a long time after a significant decrease in the production thereof has occurred if no water is continuously fed into the reactor.