# OPTICAL SCANNER

## Claims
Optischer Abtaster mit einer Lichtquelle 23 , einem Detektor 28 und einer Linsenanordnung der Detektor 28 und die Lichtquelle 23 liegen auf der gleichen Seite der Linsenanordnung die Linsenanordnung 16 besitzt eine erste und eine gegenüberliegende zweite Oberfläche 18, 20 , die so ausgebildet und angeordnet sind, daß das von der Quelle auf die erste der gegenüberliegenden Oberflächen 18 einfallende Licht als Beleuchtungsstrahl verteilt wird, der aus der zweiten gegenüberliegenden Oberfläche 20 austritt, dadurch gekennzeichnet, daß eine der ersten und zweiten Oberflächen so gestaltet ist, daß sie eine überkorrigierte sphärische Abberation liefert, wodurch der Beleuchtungsstrahl über einen Fokussierbereich durch die gegenüberliegenden Oberflächen fokussiert wird, wobei die Intensität des Strahles im wesentlichen gleichförmig über einen Bereich ist, der ein Bild des Detektors 28 und den Fokussierungsbereich einschließt.

## Description
This invention relates generally to the field of optical scanning or reading and specifically to the structure of an optical system that is particularly suitable for use in hand held probe for scanning bar codes. The use of bar codes to provide information on product prices, identity, and inventory levels is a well established practice in retail businesses and elsewhere because bar codes are convenient, inexpensive, and lend themselves well to semi or full automation reading techniques. In bar codes, information is stored as alternating dark and light stripes, the width and spacing of which are used as a means of encoding. When properly illuminated with a small enough beam of light, they return a modulated reflected beam of light which, if sufficiently intense, can be detected and converted to electrical form for decoding purposes. Usually, the bar code is scanned with a beam of illumination and the reflected beam simultaneously detected with an optical system of sufficient resolution. During scanning, the bar code is moved relative to the detection system, and relative motion is achieved by either moving the coded product relative to a fixed scanning head, most often seen in a supermarket, or by moving a hand held probe over the code on the product, more often seen in lower volume retail situations. The performance of hand held probes should be reasonably insensitive to their rotational and angular attitudes and, as well, to their proximity to a bar code because such positional variations are to be expected in hand operations. In addition, signal strength, resolution, noise level, and ease and cost of fabrication are important considerations in the design and manufacture of scanners, whether hand held or fixed types. Prior art hand held probe devices have included fiber optic illumination systems along with a lens system that is structured to focus reflected light onto a sensing module as shown, for example, in U.S. Patent No. 3,916,184 issued to Thomas W. Turner on October 28, 1975 and entitled Optical Scanner in Modular Form . In U.S. Patent No, 3,784,794 issued to David C. Allais on January 8, 1974 and entitled Electro Optical Reader for Bar Codes or the Like , a hand held probe is disclosed which utilizes as an optical system, for both the illumination and detection of reflected light from the bar code, a spherical lens on the rear surface of which is positioned either one or more detectors. A dual focusing system for use in hand held bar code probe is disclosed in U.S. Patent No, 4,143,809 issued to John J. Uebbing et al on March 13, 1979 and entitled Optical Bar Code Reader . Here, a pair of discrete lenses are integrally molded aside of one another as part of a support with their optical axes intersecting at a predetermined acute angle. The surfaces of the lenses are in the form of hyperbolic sections that are selectively shaped to eliminate spherical aberration. In spite of the many innovations made in this art, improved hand held bar code probes are still required and can be usefully employed for a variety of purposes. In particular, optical systems are required for use in hand held probes to provide signals of high strength and low noise while at the same time being able to resolve to levels required in a variety of positions and spacings from the bar code. Furthermore, ease and efficiency of manufacture and the use of simple structures are important considerations in the design of bar code scanners. Accordingly, it is the primary object of the present invention to provide an optical scanner for use for example in a hand held bar code probe having the above beneficial characteristics and which overcomes the problems of US A 4143809. In accordance with the present invention, an optical scanner comprises a light source a detector and lens means the detector and light source being on the same side of the lens means and the lens means having first and second opposed surfaces structured and arranged to distribute light from the source incident on the first opposed surface as a beam of illumination emerging from the second opposed surface, characterised in that one of the first and second surfaces is shaped to have overcorrected spherical aberration whereby the beam of illumination is focussed over a range of focus by the opposed surfaces, the intensity of the beam being substantially uniform over an area including an image of the detector and throughout the range of focus. This invention relates generally to the field of optical scanning and is for controlling light from a source and is suitable to provide a beam of light for reflection from a bar code located within a detector working distance from the scanner to generate a modulated light beam for decoding purposes. The invention specifically relates to the structure of an optical element that is particularly suitable for use in a hand held probe to conduct light to and from bar codes as they are scanned for their information content. The optical element or lens means may be integrally formed as a single piece fabricated of optical plastic by injection moulding. The preferred form of the element has just three surfaces, two of which form a first coacting pair that are structured to jointly redistribute light from an offset divergent source as a beam of illumination having a uniform intensity over a detector image throughout a range of focus of the coacting pair corresponding to a predetermined working distance for the probe. This assures minimum signal strength when reading bar codes anywhere in the working distance. To assist in accomplishing this, one of the pair of coacting surfaces may be provided with a shape having overcorrected spherical aberration. A third surface, prismatic and converging or diverging as required, cooperates with part of one of the first coacting pair of surfaces to collect and direct light reflected from a bar code anywhere in the working distance onto an offset photodetector located behind the element on the same side as the source and preferably in the same plane. Other embodiments of the invention include four surfaces instead of three and some operate with source and detector located in tandem along a central axis instead of offset with respect to the central axis as in the preferred case. All embodiments, however, are rotationally symmetric and relatively insensitive to axial proximity and angular attitude to the bar code during scanning. Some examples of hand held probes including optical scanners according to the present invention will now be described with reference to the accompanying drawings, in which In Fig. 1, there is shown generally at 10 a probe or reader that is representative of the type with which the present invention is particularly suitable for use. As seen, probe 10 comprises a slender elongate housing 14 which has conical tapers at both ends. The top conical end terminates in a cable 17 that leads to a cash register or the like to which information from probe 10 is transmitted for further use. Probe 10 is pencil like in scale and, as such, is operated by manually passing its other conical end over a bar code, such as that designated at 12, to read the bar code. Consequently, the angular attitude of probe 10 with respect to the bar code 12 can be made to vary in three azimuths, i.e., pitch, roll and yaw as indicated in Fig. 1 by the curved double headed arrows, where pitch is about the Z axis, roll about the X axis, and rotation about the Y axis. In addition, the separation of the bottom conical end of probe 10 from the bar code 12 can also vary in the Y direction as well in the X and Z plane. Because of this inevitable variation in motion due to hand held operation, it is important that the performance of such probes be relatively insensitive to expected positional changes. That is, the output of the probe 10 shouldn t, within reasonable limits, change as a function of the angular attitude or proximity of the probe to a bar code 12. In practical terms, this means that probe 10 must provide a minimum signal strength with adequate signal to noise ratio for pitch and roll angles over some reasonable range from, say 0 to approximately 50 , and this performance should not change with rotation of the probe 10 about the Y axis or with displacement of the probe from the bar code 12 by some prescribed separation or working distance on the order of a few tenths of an inch or less. The optical element of the invention satisfies these requirements with minimal structure easily fabricated using plastic injection molding techniques for high volume efficiency. To understand the present invention, reference is now made to Fig. 2 which is a section taken generally along line 2 2 of Fig. 1 and showing an optical element designated generally at 16, along with other components which reside in the interior of the probe body 14. The lower conical end of the probe body 14 terminates in an aperture 15 which may conveniently be closed over with a transparent dust cover to keep foreign matter out of the interior of the probe body 14. It is the general purpose of the optical element 16 to conduct light in a controllable way to and from the bar code 12 by way of the aperture 15. In doing so, the optical element 16 facilitates providing a beam of light for reflection from a nearby bar code to generate a modulated light beam and conducts the modulated light beam to a small photodetector for decoding purposes. To perform its functions, the optical element 16 has a rear surface 18 which is aspheric and preferably hyperboloidal. The rear surface 18, as can be seen in Fig. 2, is rotationally symmetric about an axis, OA Facing rear surface 18 is a front surface 20 which is also aspheric, preferably strongly hyperboloidal in form. Front surface 20 is of stronger curvature, and therefore of stronger power than the rear surface 18 and is rotationally symmetric about the optical axis, OA In the center of the rear surface 18, there is a slight depression in which is found another surface, the third surface of the optical element 16, and this surface is designated generally at 22. As can be seen, the surface 22 is of diameter, X Behind the optical element 16, there is an electronic subassembly 27 which includes a source of illumination 24 and a photodetector 28 along with its associated electronics 30, both of which are mounted on a board preferably perpendicular to the optical axis OA The source 24 comprises an active radiation emitting area 23 over which is positioned a hemispherical lens 25 which accepts radiation from the active area 23 and generally converges it as indicated with the arrowed rays shown in Fig. 2. The central axis of the hemisphere 25 is preferably on the offset optical axis, OA Considering light travelling from the source 24 to the bar code 12, top to bottom in Fig. 2, it first encounters the rear surface 18 and, because of the shape of this surface, gets collimated, i.e., afterwards travels parallel within the optical element 16. As seen, the collimated bundle of rays provided by the rear surface 18, as well as travelling parallel to one another, also travel parallel to the optical axis, OA The fact that the mechanical axis of the probe 10 and the optical axis, OA For light travelling in the other direction, that is, bottom to top in Fig. 2, in the direction of light reflected from the bar code 12, such light is first collimated by the front surface 20 and can be considered to be composed of two segments, the first hitting the wedged surface 22 in the rear surface 18 and the second what goes on to hit the rear surface 18. The first segment of this light, which is a light within the extreme bundle of rays intercepted by the diameter, x It will be understood that the image of the photodetector 28, as seen through the aperture 26, from the vantage of the bar code 12 has to be small enough to fit between alternate black and white pairs of the code 12 to be able to know when a black white boundary has been crossed. If these conditions were not satisfied and the bar code 12 were fine enough, i.e., of high spatial frequency, the output would be relatively level since everything would look gray, the average of black and white, and therefore there would be no modulation present. The final area of the photodetector image is preferably centered within the working distance, d Because the photodetector image size in general changes throughout the working distance, one might think that the signal strength also changes. However, this is not the case because the illumination over the photodetector image throughout the working distance, d An example of an optical element which has been found suitable for use in a bar code probe of about 3 10 of an inch 0.75cm in diameter is the following. The rear surface 18 and the front surface 20 are both described by the general formula where C is the reciprocal of the surface apex radius, K the conic constant, Y the distance of a point measured from the surface vertex and parallel to the Y axis, taken to be the surface s optical axis, and S is the radial distance of the point measured perpendicular to the Y axis and wherein the coefficients β through ε, are given in the following table For these values, the distance from the aperture 15 to the apex of the front surface 20 was 1.4 inches 3.56cm and the separation between the apex of front surface 20 and the rear surface, measured along the optical axis, OA With this example, tests have indicated that as probe 10 is brought in towards the bar code from the working distance of 0.15 inch 0.38 , the output signal does not vary from nominal by more than 15 up to the point of contact with the bar code, and the output level is independent of the probe angle of rotation and does not vary over all operational angles or distances from the bar code by more than a factor of 2 to 1 for angles within the range from 0 to 40 . The distance to the offset axis, OA In Fig. 3 is shown an alternate embodiment for the optical element of the invention, and this embodiment is designated generally at 42. The element 42 in principle functions the same as the previous element 16, but differs in surface detail comprising a new rear surface 40 and a different front surface 44. Also, there is included in a depressed region in the rear surface 40 a rearwardly facing surface 48. All of the other parts shown in Fig. 3 retain the same numerical identification they had in Fig. 2 with the exception of the points of convergence which are now designated at 50, 52 and 54 because they may slightly differ from those shown previously. The front surface 44 instead of being hyperboloidal as before, is now comprised of two intersecting sections, one of which is a straight conical section designated generally at 45 and the other of which is an aspheric section joined to the conical section 45 and designated generally at 46. Thus, the surface 44, while continuous, is comprised of two intersecting parts having different geometries. Because the surface 44 is different than previously, the surface 40, while still hyperboloidal will have slightly different characteristics than its correspondent before in order to collimate the bundle of diverging rays from the source 24. A major difference between this element and the previous element is that in this element, the collecting system no longer uses part of the front surface to return light to the photodetector 28, but now rather is formed of a cooperative pair which includes the front surface segment 46 and the rear wedge segment 48. The wedge segment 48 is in shape aspheric and either positive or negative as required. In addition, the surface 48 is provided with a prismatic effect by virtue of its overall angular orientation with respect to the optical axis OA Again, the front surface conical segment 45 operates to provide overcorrected spherical aberration so that the energy from the source 24 is redistributed to provide a beam which is uniform over the image of the photodetector throughout the working distance, d In Fig. 4, there is shown yet another embodiment of the invention, and this optical element is designated generally at 60. In this figure, however, the light source, which is designated at 68, and the photodetector, which is designated at 82, are located in tandem, one behind the other, along the optical axis, OA At the center of the rear plano surface 62, there is provided a converging surface 66 which cooperates with part of the front surface 64 having a diameter designated again by X Fig. 5 shows yet another embodiment of the optical element of the invention and here it is designated generally at 84. The optical element 84 is most similar to the optical element previously discussed at 60 in Fig. 4, differing only in the details of its front and rear surface with all other components shown in Fig. 4, retaining their same numerical designations in Fig. 5. The optical element 84 again includes a planar rear surface 86 having a convex aspheric surface 92 centered with the optical axis, OA