# Preparation of thermoformed plastics articles

## Claims
Verfahren zur Herstellung ausgeformter Gegenstände, welches dasVakuumformen oder die Thermoformung einer ungeschäumten Platte einer Formmasseumfaßt, enthaltend eine Mischung aus einem Basisharz, einem Harz mit einerkontinuierlichen Phase aus einem ersten Copolymeren, aus einem Styrolmonomer undeinem ethylenisch ungesättigten Nitril, wobei das erste Copolymer ein zahlengemitteltesMolekulargewicht von 3 x 10

## Description
The present invention relates to the preparationof plastics articles by vacuum forming or thermo forming. Resinous compositions based on copolymersof a styrenic monomer and an ethylenicallyunsaturated nitrile, in particular styrene acrylonitrilecopolymers SAN resins , find use in avariety of applications on account of their toughnessand resistance to chemicals, sunlight and theweather. Unmodified such copolymers are relativelybrittle and to improve their impact strengthit has long been known to disperse uniformlythroughout a continuous phase of the styrenicmonomer nitrile copolymer a discrete elastomericphase of an impact modifier. To improvecompatability between the continuous and dispersephases, the impact modifier usually is agraft copolymer comprising a rubbery substrate,such as a poly 1,4 butadiene or copolymer of 1,4 butadienewith either or both of styrene andacrylonitrile, and a grafted superstrate of styrenicmonomer nitrile copolymer. The resulting dispersionsare best known in the form of ABS resins. The resinous compositions based on styrenicmonomer nitrile copolymers, whether modifiedor unmodified, are used as engineering thermoplasticsto form a variety of shaped articles,frequently of thin wall structure, by processesinvolving elongational flow, such as vacuumforming or thermoforming. For example, sucharticles as refrigerator linings and boats can beformed by vacuum or thermo forming sheets ofABS resin compositions. A problem encounteredwhen forming such articles is that of uneven wallthickness, so that the wall thickness in areas, suchas corners, subjected to high levels of deformationis less than in areas, such as long stretches ofstraight wall, subjected to low levels of deformation.To overcome this problem, and providearticles of sufficient strength and more uniformwall thickness, it has frequently been necessary toincrease the thickness of the sheets of resincomposition used in the moulding process. This,however, results in the use of increased amountsof resin and is wasteful in that the wall thicknessin areas which have been subjected to low levelsof deformation is greater than is required inpractice. GB A 2111514 describes a thermoplastics resincomposition suitable for preparing biaxiallyoriented materials which comprises a basethermoplastics resin A and a thermoplastics resinB compatible therewith having a molecularweight of more than 10 By way of contrast vacuum forming or thermo formingoperations are usually carried out attemperatures significantly at least 40 C abovethe glass transition temperature of a base resinand at relatively low stress values 10 The present invention provides a process forpreparing shaped articles by vacuum forming orthermoforming using moulding compositionswhich are based upon styrenic monomer nitrilecopolymers and which have improved elongationalflow properties such that shaped articles ofmore uniform wall thickness can be preparedfrom them. In addition the creep resistance of theshaped articles prepared in accordance with theinvention is significantly improved. According to the present invention there isprovided a process for preparing shaped articleswhich comprises vacuum forming or thermo forming an unfoamed sheet of a moulding compositioncomprising a blend of, as base resin, a resinhaving a continuous phase of a first copolymer ofa styrenic monomer and an ethylenically unsaturatednitrile, said first copolymer having a numberaverage molecular weight of from 3 10 Both the first and second copolymers in themoulding compositions to be used in the processof the invention are of a styrenic monomer and anethylenically unsaturated nitrile. The styrenicmonomer can be styrene itself or various derivativesof styrene in which either or both of thebenzene ring and the vinyl group can be substituted,as by, for example, an alkyl group or a halogen atom. Thus, examples of the styrenicmonomer are styrene, ortho , meta and para methylstyrenes, 2,4 dimethyl styrene, ortho ,meta and para ethyl styrenes, paratertiarystyrene. α methyl styrene, α ethyl styrene, α methyl para methylstyrene, the ortho , meta and para chloro styrenes, 2,4 dibromo styreneand 2 4 dichloro styrene. The ethylenicallyunsaturated nitriles that can be employed includeacrylonitrile, methacrylonitrile and ethacrylonitrile.Mixtures of styrenic monomers and ofnitriles can be employed if desired. The first andsecond copolymers will usually comprise 65 to90 by weight of the styrenic monomer and 35 to10 by weight of the nitrile monomer. In order that the first and second copolymers beas compatible as possible and that the elongationalviscosity decrease as little as possible withthe applied stress, it is desirable to match theweight ratio of styrenic monomer nitrile monomerin the two copolymers. Thus, the weight ratioof styrenic monomer to ethylenically unsaturatednitrile in said additive resin preferably is from 1.1to 0.9 times, and more preferably is slightlygreater than for example 1.1 to 1.05 times , theweight ratio of styrenic monomer to ethylenicallyunsaturated nitrile in the base resin. Preferablythe first and second copolymers are both styrene acrylonitrile copolymers. The first and second copolymers of the mouldingcompositions used in the process of theinvention differ in terms of their molecularweight. The first copolymer has a molecularweight typical of styrenic monomer nitrile copolymersfor use as engineering thermoplastics. Theupper limit on molecular weight is usually determinedby processability limitations, while thelower limit is frequently determined by the needfor the moulding composition to be impact resistant.The molecular weights that have beenquoted for the first and second copolymers arenumber average molecular weights. The molecularweight distribution of the first copolymer isusually such that the ratio of weight averagemolecular weight to number average molecularweight is from 2 to 2.5, preferably from 2.2 to 2.4.For the second styrenic monomer nitrile copolymer,the molecular weight distribution can bebroad at the lower end of the molecular weightrange so that the weight average molecularweight number average molecular weight ratio atthe lower end of the range can be about 2.2 1, atthe upper end of the range it preferably is as lowas 1.2 1 or 1.3 1. In the moulding compositions used in the processof the invention the base resin must have acontinuous phase of the first copolymer. The baseresin is preferably an ABS resin, as discussedabove. Other examples of base resins are unmodifiedSAN resins, SAN resins modified with chlorinatedpolyethylene ACS , SAN resins modifiedwith ethylene propylene dimer rubbers AES ,SAN resins modified with acrylic rubbers ASA and blends of such resins. The only requirementis that the styrenic monomer nitrile copolymershould form a continuous phase during processingoperations. Preferably the continuousphase has dispersed therein a rubbery impactmodifier, preferably an elastomeric polymer of1,4 butadiene. Particularly preferred impact modifiersare graft copolymers comprising as substratea rubbery polybutadiene or copolymer ofbutadiene with either or both of styrene andacrylonitrile, such as a copolymer containing 90to 95 by weight butadiene and 5 to 10 byweight of styrene and or acrylonitrile, and assuperstrate a styrene acrylonitrile copolymer. Insuch a graft copolymer the butadiene content issuitably from 10 to 60 , based on monomercontent. The second styrenic monomer nitrile copolymerin the moulding compositions used in theprocess of the invention is an additive resin ofmuch higher molecular weight than the firstcopolymer resin providing the continuous phaseof the base resin. This second copolymer can bereferred to as an ultra high molecular weight UHMW copolymer. Such UHMW copolymerscan be prepared using standard polymerisationtechnology, providing no or very little chain transferagent is used in the polymerisation. Polymersmade in this way can contain considerableamounts of lower molecular weight polymerchains which may or may not be removed beforethe UHMW copolymer is blended with the otheringredients of the composition. One UHMW SANresin which is commercially available is Plastiflo AOI manufactured by Ugine Kuhlmann.The presence of a small amount of the UHMW copolymerin the continuous phase of the firststyrenic monomer nitrile copolymer promotes aneffect known as strain hardening with the resultthat, upon moulding of the composition, deformationpreferentially takes place in relativelyundeformed areas, so that articles having a moreuniform wall thickness are produced by themoulding process of the invention which is dominatedby stretching flow. If, for example, both thefirst and second styrenic monomer nitrile copolymerswere to be made by emulsion polymerisation,simple latex blending of the products couldbe employed in producing a molding compositionfor use in the process of the invention. The strain hardening effect achieved inaccordance with the present invention can beillustrated by comparing constant stress creepcurves at 140 C on compositions containing no ordiffering amounts of the UHMW copolymer. Suchcurves are illustrated in Figures 1 to 3. Figure 1 shows the constant stress creep curvesfor an ABS resin containing about 30 by weightof material insoluble in methylethylketone andhaving a glass transition temperature of about105 C. The polybutadiene content of the ABSresin is 20 by weight. The continuous phaseSAN polymer in this resin has a number averagemolecular weight of approximately 42,000, an S ANweight ratio of 1.8 1 and a ratio of weightaverage molecular weight to number averagemolecular weight of approximately 3.5. Figure 2 shows the constant stress creep curvesfor a composition consisting of the same ABSresin as used in producing the curves of Figure 1to which has been added 2 parts by weight per100 parts by weight of the ABS resin of anUHMW SAN copolymer having a number averagemolecular weight of 1.6 10 Figure 3 shows curves obtained from a compositionsimilar to that employed in producing thecurves of Figure 2, but containing 4 parts byweight per 100 parts by weight of the ABS resin ofthe UHMW SAN. As can be seen from Figures 1, 2 and 3, thestrain level Hencky strain at which a constantrate of deformation is reached is increased by theaddition of the UHMW SAN copolymer. The rateof stress relaxation after cessation of steady stateshear flow has been shown to be relativelyunaffected by the presence of the UHMW SANcopolymer but die swell or extrudate swell has been found to be strongly affected, that isincreased, by the presence of the UHMW SANcopolymer. Similar improvements in properties have beenfound to exist for moulding compositions whichnot only comprise, as base resin, the first styrenicmonomer nitrile copolymer but also anotherthermoplastic polymer, in particular a vinylchloride polymer. Polymer blends of ABS andPVC generally possess properties intermediatebetween those of the individual polymers. Inprocesses involving elongational flow, such asvacuum forming or thermoforming, the PVC componentof the blend reduces the maximum elongationratio that can be reached without rupture,and this severely limits the number of applicationsfor such blends. The processing properties of PVC based compositionshave been improved by adding smallamounts of high molecular weight acrylic processaids, and this also results in improved hightemperature melt elongation properties Pure andApplied Chemistry, 55, No. 1, pages 177 to 190,1983 . It has now been found that improvementsin the hot elongation properties of blends of ABSand PVC can be obtained when using smallamounts of UHMW styrenic monomer nitrilecopolymers. The quantities required dependupon the requirements of the process and canvary depending upon the relative efficiency of theUHMW styrenic monomer nitrile copolymer, theproperties of the other blend components andtheir relative ratio in the blend. Also additives,such as property modifiers nitrile rubbers andchlorinated polyethylene for example , plasticisers,stabilisers and lubricants may have aneffect on elongation properties. In general,amounts of from 0.1 to 20, preferably 1 to 6, morepreferably 2 to 4, parts by weight per 100 parts byweight of the base resins of the second copolymerare effective. Figure 4 provides elongational hot creep curvesobtained in the same manner as the curves ofFigures 1 to 3, but at 150 C for three formulationsusing the same base recipe, namely a recipecomprising A reference formulation contained nopolymeric additive. A further reference compositioncontained 6 phr acrylic process aid Rohmand Haas Paraloid K120 N , a high molecularweight copolymer of 95 methyl methacrylateand 5 ethyl acrylate . A formulation made inaccordance with the invention contained 6 phr ofthe UHMW SAN copolymer used in producing thecurves of Figures 1 to 3, namely Plastiflo AOI .As shown by the curves of Figure 4, the UHMW SANcopolymer provides much better resultsthan does the acrylic process aid in that far higherstrain levels may be obtained before rupture ofthe samples occurs. When instead of the UHMW SAN copolymerused to provide the curves of Figures 1 to 4 therewas used a UHMW SAN copolymer having abimodal molecular weight distribution and an80 20 weight based S AN ratio number averagemolecular weight of the high molecular weightfraction about 1.8 10 The improvement in thickness distributionwhich can be obtained in accordance with theinvention when shaped articles are formed bymolding a composition containing the UHMW styrenemonomer nitrile copolymer can clearly beseen from Figure 5. Figure 5 illustrates the resultsobtained, in terms of corner thickness, whenmoulding an ABS resin formulation containing 0,2 or 4 phr of an UHMW SAN copolymer PlastifloAOI . Figures 6 and 7 are plots of elongationalviscosity against stress at 150 C and illustrate thedesirability of more or less matching the weightratio of styrenic monomer to ethylenically unsaturatednitrile in the additive resin to that in the baseresin. In Figs. 6 and 7 are plotted the curves forbase resins having styrene acrylonitrile weight ratios of 65 35 and 70 30, respectively and forblends comprising 94 phr of base resin and 6 phrof UHMW additive resin in which the styrene acrylonitrile weight ratio is variously 90 10, 85 15,80 20, 75 25, 70 30 and 65 35. As can be seen fromthe results, the preferred response in which thereis least change in elongational viscosity withstress is manifested when the styrene acrylonitrileweight ratio of the additive resin is slightlyhigher than that of the base resin 70 30 in Fig. 6and 75 25 in Fig. 7 . As mentioned above the creep resistance ofshaped articles prepared in accordance with theinvention is significantly improved. A pipe gradeABS composition containing only 2 phr ofUHMW SAN shows a significant reduction indeformation after exposure to strains of 15 MPafor times in excess of 3 10 Incorporation of the UHMW SAN surprisinglyhas no significant effect upon impact resistance,provides an improved Vicat heat performanceand has relatively little effect upon shearviscosity. The invention thus provides surprisingbenefits and almost no drawbacks.