# Alkanoyl anilides.

## Abstract
The present invention is an alkanoyl anilides exhibiting insecticidal and arachnicidal activity, wherein the alkanoyl is both branched and substantially or totally fluorinated.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. An alkanoyl anilide of the formulae EMI60.1 wherein R represents bromo, chloro, or fluoro R1 represents CF3, C2F5, C3F7, or a n , iso , or sec C4Fg R2 represents CF3, C2F5, C3F7, or, when RO represents fluoro, R2 can additionally represent ORf N Rf 2t CN, CF2 ORf, or CF2 N Rf 2 and each Rf independently represents perfluoro loweralkyl of C1 C3 or, in N Rf 2 both Rf groups can be taken together. with the N and constitute perfluoropyrrolidino, perfluoropiperidino, per fluoromorpholino, or N trifluoromethyl per fluoropiperazino R3 represents hydrogen, or methyl andR4 represents phenyl substituted with 1 a nitro group, or 2 two to five independently selected R5 groups, where R5 is bromo, chloro, or fluoro, or 3 two independently selected R6 groups, where R6 is iodo, nitro, cyano, trifluoromethyl, fluoromethyl, fluorosulfonyl, methylsulfonyl, ethylsulfonyl, carbomethoxy, or carboethoxy, or 4 two groups, including one R5 group and one R6 group, or 5 two groups, including one methyl group and one R5 or nitro or, 6 two groups, including the methyl group and one fluorosulfonyl group, or 7 three groups, including two independently selected R5 groups and one R6 group, or 8 three groups, including two independently selected RS groups and one RS group, or 9 three groups including two nitro groups and one trifluoromethyl group, or 10 three groups including two nitro groups at the 2 and 4 positions and a C1 alkoxy or C1 C4 alkylthio group at the 3 os 5 position, or 11 two groups including a thiocyanato group and a group selected from R5, iodo, and nitro, orR4 represents naphthyl substituted with two or three independently selected R5 or R6 groups, orR4 represents 5 nitro 2 pyridyl and the sodium, potassium, and ammonium salts thereof, wherein ammonium is of the following formulaEMI62.1 wherein each R8 independently represents alkyl ofC1 C20, benzyl, 2 hydroxyethyl, 2 hydroxypropyl, or 3 hydroxypropyl and R9 represents hydrogen or R81 the total number of carbon atoms in all R8 and R9 moieties being from 12 to 60, except that when one or more R8 groups are 2 hydroxyethyl, 2 hydroxypropyl, or 3 hydroxypropyl, the total number of carbon atoms in all R8 and R9 moieties can be from 6 to 60. 2. An alkanoyl anilide of formula I or II as claimed in claim 1, wherein R1 is CF3, C2F5, C3F7 or n C4Fg R2 is CF3, C2F5, C3F7 or n C4F9,, or, if R represents fluoro, R2 can additionally represent ORf, N Rf 2, or CN, and each Rf independently represents perfluoroloweralkyl of C1 C3 and R4 is as defined in claim 1, provided R4 is not as defined in paragraphs 6 , 10 or 11 , or a sodium, potassium or eNR8RsR8R9 R8R8Rg salt thereof. 3. An alkanoyl anilide of formula I or II as claimed in claim 1 wherein R is fluoro, or a sodium, potassium, or NR8R8R8Rg salt thereof. 4. An alkanoyl anilide of formula I as claimed in claim 1 wherein R0, represents fluoro, RI represents CF3, C2F5, or n C3F7, and R3 represents hydrogen, or a sodium, potassium, or eNR,3R8R8R9 salt thereof. 5. An alkanoyl anilide of formula I as claimed in claim 1, 2, 3, or 4 wherein R4 represents 2 bromo 4 nitrophenyl, or a sodium, potassium, or oNR8R8R8Rg salt thereof. 6. 2 Bromo 4 nitro 2,3,3 ,3 tetrafluoro 2 trifluoromethyl propionanilide or a sodium, potassium, or eNR8R8R3R9 salt thereof. 7. An insecticidal or arachnicidal formulation comprising, as active ingredient, an alkanoyl anilide of the formula I , 11 or II , or a sodium, potassium, or eNR8R8R8R9 salt thereof, as claimed in any one of claims 1 6 in combination with an agriculturally acceptable adj uvant. 8. An antifungal or herbicidal formulation comprising, as active ingredient, an alkanoyl anilide of the formula I , II or III or a sodium, potassium, or sNR8R8R8Rg salt thereof, as claimed in any one of claims 1 6 in combination with an agriculturally acceptable adjuvant. 9. An insecticidal or arachnicidal method which comprises applying to the locus of the insect or arachnid an effective amount of an alkanoyl anilide of formula I , II or III , or a sodium, potassium, or eNR8R8R8R9 salt thereof as claimed in any one of claims 1 6. 10. A process for preparing an alkanoyl anilide of the formula I II or III , as defined in claim 1, or a sodium, potassium or ammonium salt thereof, which comprises a reacting an amine of the formula HNR3R4, wherein R3 and R4 are as defined above, with an alkanoyl halide of the formula CR0R1R2 COX, CF3 3CCOX, or CF3 2 CB3 CCOX, or b reacting an olefin of the formula CF3 CF CF2 with an isocyanate of the formula O C NR4 in the presence of a fluoride to produce a compound of formula I wherein RO is fluoro, R1 and R2 are CF3 and R3 is hydrogen, or c methylating a compound of formula I , II or III wherein R3 is hydrogen to provide the corresponding compound wherein R3 is methyl, and d optionally salifying the compound to provide the sodium, potassium, or sNR8R8R8R9 salt thereof. CLAIMS 1. An agrichemical formulation comprising, as active agent, an alkanoyl anilide of the formulae EMI66.1 wherein R represents bromo, chloro, or fluoro R1 represents CF3, C2F51 C3F71 or a n , iso , or sec C4Fg R2 represents CF3, C2F5, C3F71 or, when RO represents fluoro, R2 can additionally represent ORf, N Rf 2 CN, CF2 ORf, or CF2 N Rf 2 and each Rf independently represents perfluoro loweralkyl of C1 C3 or, in N Rf 2 both Rf groups can be taken together with the N and constitute perfluoropyrrolidino, perfluoropiperidino, per fluoromorpholino, or N trifluoromethyl per fluoropiperazino R3 represents hydrogen, or methyl andR4 represents phenyl substituted with 1 a nitro group, or 2 two to five independently selected R5 groups, where R5 is bromo, chloro, or fluoro, or 3 two independently selected R6 groups, where R6 is iodo, nitro, cyano, trifluoromethyl, fluoromethyl, fluorosulfonyl, methylsulfonyl, ethylsulfonyl, carbomethoxy, or carboethoxy, or 4 two groups, including one R5 group and one R6 group, or 5 two groups, including one methyl group and one R5 or nitro or, 6 two groups, including the methyl group and one fluorosulfonyl group, or 7 three groups, including two independently selected R5 groups and one R6 group, or 8 three groups, including two independently selected R6 groups and one R5 group, or 9 three groups including two nitro groups and one trifluoromethyl group, or 10 three groups including two nitro groups at the 2 and 4 positions and a C1 C4 alkoxy or C1 C4 alkylthio group at the 3 or 5 position, or 11 two groups including a thiocyanato group and a group selected from R5, iodo, and nitro, orR4 represents naphthyl substituted with two or three independently selected R5 or R6 groups, orR4 represents 5 nitro 2 pyridyl and the sodium, potassium, and ammonium salts thereof, wherein ammonium is of the following formulaEMI68.1 wherein each R8 independently represents alkyl of C1 C201 benzyl, 2 hydroxyethyl, 2 hydroxypropyl, or 3 hydroxypropyl and R9 represents hydrogen or RS, the total number of carbon atoms in all R8 and R9 moieties being from 12 to 60, except that when one or more R8 groups are 2 hydroxyethyl, 2 hydroxypropyl, or 3 hydroxypropyl, the total number of carbon atoms in all R8 and R9 moieties can be from 6 to 60. 2. An agrichemical formulation of claim 1 wherein the active agent is an alkanoyl anilide of formula I or II as described in claim 1, wherein R1 is.CF3, C2F5, C3F7 or n C4Fg R2 is CF3, C2F5, C3F7 or n C4Fg, or, if RO represents fluoro, R2 can additionally represent ORf, N Rf 2, or CN, and each Rf independently represents perfluoroloweralkyl of C1 C3 and R4 is as defined in claim 1, provided R4 is not as defined in paragraphs 6 , 10 or 11 , or a sodium, potassium or eNR8R8R8Rg salt thereof. 3. An agrichemical formulation of claim 1 wherein the active agent is an alkanoyl anilide of formula I or II as described in claim 1 wherein RO is fluoro, or a sodium, potassium, or sNR8R8R8Rg salt thereof. 4. An agrichemical formulation of claim 1 wherein the active agent is an alkanoyl anilide of formula I as described in claim 1 wherein RO represents fluoro, R1 represents CF3, C2F5, or n C3F7, andR3 represents hydrogen, or a sodium, potassium, or sNR8R8R8R9 salt thereof. 5. An agrichemical formulation of claim 1 wherein the active agent is an alkanoyl anilide of formula I as described in claim 1, 2, 3, or 4 whereinR4 represents 2 broino 4 nitrophenyl, or a sodium, potassium, or NR8R8R8Rg salt thereof. 6. An agrichemical formulation of claim 1 wherein the active agent is 2 bromo 4 nitro 2,3,3,3 tetrafluoro 2 tri fluoromethyl propionanilide or a sodium, potassium, or eNR8R8R8Rg salt thereof. 7. An insecticidal or arachnicidal formulation comprising, as active ingredient, an alkanoyl anilide of the formula I , II or III , or a sodium, potassium, or NR8R8R8Rg salt thereof, as defined in any one of claims 1 6 in combination with an agriculturally acceptable adjuvant. 8. An antifungal or herbicidal formulation comprising, as active ingredient, an alkanoyl anilide of the formula I , II or III or a sodium, potassium, or eNR8R8R8R9 salt thereof, as defined in any one of claims 1 6 in combination with an agriculturally acceptable adjuvant. 9. An insecticidal or arachnicidal method which comprises applying to the locus of the insect or arachnid an effective amount of an alkanoyl anilide of formula I , II or III , or a sodium, potassium, or eNR8R8R8R9 salt thereof as defined in any one of claims 1 6. 10. A process for preparing an alkanoyl anilide of the formula I II or III , as defined in claim 1, or a sodium, potassium or ammonium salt thereof, which comprises a reacting an amine of the formula HNR3R4, wherein R3 and R4 are as defined above, with an alkanoyl halide of the formula CR0R1R2 cOX, CF 3CCOX, or CF3 2 CH3 CCOX, or b reacting an olefin of the formula CF3 CF CF2 with an isocyanate of the formula O C NR4 in the presence of a fluoride to produce a compound of formula I wherein RO is fluoro, R1 and R2 are CF2 and R3 is hydrogen, or c methylating a compound of formula I , II or III wherein R3 is hydrogen to provide the corresponding compound wherein R3 is methyl, and d optionally salifying the compound to provide the sodium, potassium, or NR8R8R8R9 salt thereof.

## Description
ALKANOYL ANILIDES The present invention is in alkanoyl anilides of which the alkanoyl is both branched and substantially or totally fluorinated. These anilides exhibit excellent insecticidal and arachnicidal activity. The invention therefore also includes methods employing, and formulations comprising, these compounds as insecticides and arachnicides. More specifically, the invention provides compounds of the formulae EMI1.1 wherein RO represents bromo, chloro, or fluoro R1 represents CF3, C2 F5, C3F7, or a n , iso , or sec C4F9 R2 represents CF3, C2F5, C3F7, or, when R represents fluoro, R2 can additionally represent ORf, N Rf 2, CN, CF2 ORf, or CF2 N Rf 2 and each Rf independently represents perfluoro loweralkyl of C1 C3 or, in N Rf 2 both Rf groups can be taken together with the N and constitute perfluoropyrrolidino, perfluoropiperidino, per fluoromorpholino, or N trfluoromethyl per fluoropiperazino R3 represents hydrogen, or methyl andR4 represents phenyl substituted with 1 a nitro group, or 2 two to five independently selected Rs groups, where R5 is bromo, chloro, or fluoro, or 3 two independently selected R6 groups, where R6 is iodo, nitro, cyano, trifluoromethyl, fluoromethyl, fluorosulfonyl, methylsulfonyl, ethylsulfonyl, carbomethoxy, or carboethoxy, or 4 two groups, including one R5 group and one R6 group, or 5 two groups, including one methyl group and one R5 or nitro or, 6 two groups, including the methyl group and one fluorosulfonyl group, or 7 three groups, including two independently selected Rs groups and one R6 group, or 8 three groups, including two independently selected R6 groups and one R5 group, or 9 three groups including two nitro groups and one trifluoromethyl group, or 10 three groups including two nitro groups at the 2 and 4 positions and a C1 C4 alkoxy or C1 C4 alkylthio group at the 3 or 5 position, or 11 two groups including a thiocyanato group and a group selected from R5, iodo, and nitro, orR4 represents naphthyl substituted with two or three independently selected R5 or R6 groups, orR4 represents 5 nitro 2 pyridyl and the sodium, potassium, and ammonium salts thereof, wherein ammonium is of the following formula EMI4.1 wherein each R8 independently represents alkyl of C1 C20, benzyl, 2 hydroxyethyl, 2 hydroxypropyl, or 3 hydroxypropyl and R9 represents hydrogen or R8, the total number of carbon atoms in all R8 and R9 moieties being from 12 to 60, except that when one or more R8 groups are 2 hydroxyethyl, 2 hydroxypropyl, or 3 hydroxypropyl, the total number of carbon atoms in all R8 and R9 moieties can be from 6 to 60. Synthesis The present compounds are prepared in conventional procedures for the preparation of carboxanilides.A preferred method is the reaction of the appropriate alkanoyl halide EMI4.2 with the desired aniline, l aminonaphthalene, or 2 amino5 nitropyridine, of the formulaEMI4.3 Preferably the halide is fluoride. In carrying out this reaction, the reactants are combined in a reaction solvent. Various solvents can be employed, including toluene, acetonitrile, diethyl ether, tetrahydrofuran, and halogenated solvents such as methylene chloride.In general, diethyl ether and halogenated solvents are preferred. A halogenated solvent can sometimes serve as the solvent in a one pot reaction to make the aniline starting material which is thereafter converted to the final product of the invention. In other particulars, the reaction is conventional. An HF acceptor is provided to the reaction mixture typically triethylamine is used. The reaction consumes the reactants and the HF acceptor in equimolar amounts.The reaction goes forward over a wide temperature range, such as from 10 to 1100C however, the reaction is most conveniently carried out at temperatures of about 20 to 700C. Workup of the reaction mixture to isolate the product is carried out in conventional procedures. The alkanoyl halides employed as starting materials in this reaction route are generally prepared by electrochemical fluorination and therefore often contain isomers. In view of the requirement of the present invention for branching alpha to the carbonyl, it is often desirable to purify the anilide products to remove straight chain isomers. It has been found that this can generally be achieved by selective hydrolysis of the straight chain carboxanilides, and separation of the water soluble K or Na salt of the branched chain carboxanilide from the precipitated aniline. This is illustrated by Examples 2, 3, 8, and 13 below. An alternate procedure is available for the preparation of those compounds of formula I wherein RO represents fluoro, both R1 and R2 represent trifluoromethyl, and R3 represents hydrogen however, this procedure is less favored than the proceding one. The procedure involves the reaction of an olefin, hexafluoropropene, and an isocyanate in the presence of a fluoride such as KF, NaF, or cesium fluoride EMI6.1 The reaction is carried out in a reaction solvent such as DMF, DMSO, or diglyme, under pressure of 5 40 psig.The reaction goes forward over a range of temperatures, such as from 30 to 700C. The reaction requires one mole of isocyanate, three or more moles of KF, NaF, or cesium fluoride, and three to ten or more moles of hexafluoropropene. Workup is conventional. Those compounds of the present invention in which R3 represents methyl are preferably prepared from the corresponding R3 hydrogen compounds. This methylation reaction is carried out in any of the known conventional methods for methylation. Typically, methyl iodide is employed as the reagent, and the reaction is carried out in a suitable solvent, such as acetone, with a base such as potassium carbonate. Equimolar amounts of the reactants are consumed, but the methyl iodide is preferably used in excess. The reaction goes forward over a wide range of temperatures, but is most conveniently carried out at room temperatures of about 25 to 350C.Workup is by conventional procedures. The present invention also includes salts of the parent compounds. These salts are prepared in entirely conventional methods. The sodium and potassium salts are prepared by reacting the corresponding parent compounds with sodium or potassium hydroxide the ammonium salts can be obtained by reacting the parent compound with a compound of the formulaEMI7.1 or by reacting a sodium salt of a present compound withEMI7.2 where X Br, Cl, or F . Accordingly, the invention also provides a process for preparing an alkanoyl anilide of the formula I II or III , as defined above or a sodium, potassium or ammonium salt thereof, which comprises a reacting an amine of the formula HNR3R4, wherein R3 and R4 are as defined above, with an alkanoyl halide of the formula CR0R1R2 COX, CF3 3CCOX, or CF3 2 CH3 CCOX, or b reacting an olefin of the formula CF3 CF CF2 with an isocyanate of the formula o c hR4 in the presence of a fluoride to produce a compound of formula I wherein RO is fluoro, R1 and R2 are CF3 and R3 is hydrogen, or c methylating a compound of formula I , II or III wherein R3 is hydrogen to provide the corresponding compound wherein R3 is methyl, and d optionally salifying the compound to provide the sodium, potassium, or fflNR8R8R8R9 salt thereof. The synthesis of the present compounds is further taught by the following illustrative examples. Example 1 2 Bromo 4 nitro 2,3,3,3 tetrafluoro 2 tri fluoromethyl propionanilide olefin process Potassium fluoride 23 grams 0.4 mole which was dried by heating strongly with a bunsen burner in a porcelain crucible and subsequently powdered, was added to 200 ml of a DMF solution of 2 bromo 4 nitrophenyl isocyanate 6 grams 0.025 mole . The mixture was placed in a pressure vessel, purged with a small stream of hexafluoropropene, and heated to 700C while adding hexafluoropropene from a pre weighed supply cylinder at 10 20 psig. A pressure drop occurred as the gas reacted, and the remaining hexafluoropropene was added intermittently until the supply cylinder was empty heating was continued at 65 700C for 2 hours with pressure stabilized at 5 psig.The reaction vessel was then cooled and the solution poured off and extracted with hexane. The DMF solution was poured into water and filtered. The solid products were taken up in chloroform, dried over sodium sulfate, filtered, evaporated, and chromatographed on silica gel with ethyl acetate hexane 1 5 . The front running product was collected H NMR of this product indicated the desired product.The material was then chromatographed on silica gel with gradient elution from 100 hexane to 100 ethyl acetate. The foregoing procedures yielded a waxy solid, m.p. 57 590C, yield 1.65 grams 16 . The identity of the product was confirmed by MS, H NMR, and F19 NMR. Analysis calculated for C10H4BrF7N2 O3 Theory C, 29.08 H, 0.98 N, 6.78 Found C, 29.31 H, 0.83 N, 6.58. Example 2 2 Bromo 4 nitro 2,3,3,3 tetrafluoro 2 tri fluoromethyl propionanilide alkanoyl fluoride process, with isomer purification 2 Bromo 4 nitroaniline 141 grams 0.65 mole was dissolved in 3.5 liters of diethyl ether, dried over sodium sulfate, and filtered. Triethylamine 71 grams 0.070 mole was added with stirring. A mixture of 2,2,3,3,4,4,4 heptafluorobutyryl fluoride, 2,3,3,3 tetrafluoro 2 trifluoromethyl propionyl fluoride, HF, and inert gases were employed. The mixture was believed to contain 70 of chemically active acyl fluorides 100 grams of this mixture were add under a dry ice acetone condensor. The reaction mixture was left to stand overnight about 17 hours and an additional amount of the mixture was added to a total of 210 grams 0.70 mole . Water was added to the reaction mixture, then dilute ice HCl until the pH of the aqueous layer was acidic. The water layer was decanted off. The diethyl ether layer was dried over magnesium sulfate and the solvent evaporated under vacuum. The solid residue was taken up in 800 ml of ethanol, and treated with potassium carbonate at room temperature, with magnetic stirring. Sixty eight grams of K2 CO3 was added initially, followed by 23 g more after 24 hours and 12 g more after 48 hours and stirred for a total of 64 hours. The ethanol was evaporated under vacuum, and the solids were triturated three times with aqueous potassium carbonate. The solution was filtered and the filtrate was acidified below 250C withHCl. The product was filtered, washed with water, dissolved in methylene chloride, dried, and evaporated.The gas chromatogram of the product indicated less than 1 straight chain isomer, m.p., 66 C, yield, 178 grams 66 . Analysis calculated for Cl0H4BrF7N203 Theory C, 29.08 H, 0.98 N, 6.78 Found C, 29.30 H, 0.92 N, 6.99. Example 3 2 Bromo 4 nitro 2,3,3,3 tetrafluoro 2 trifluoromethyl propionanilide alkanoyl fluoride process, with isomer purification 2 Bromo 4 nitroaniline 35.84 grams 0.16 mole , triethylamine 21.15 grams 0.21 mole , and 250 ml of tetrahydrofuran were added to a 500 ml roundbottom flask equipped with a dry ice acetone reflux condenser and a gas inlet. The vessel was purged with nitrogen. The same mixture of acyl fluorides used inExample 2 was employed as the reactant in the present example 54.60 grams 0.18 mole . This mixture was added at a rate allowing a slow reflux. The addition required approximately 90 minutes and the resulting brown solution was stirred for about an hour after the addition was complete. The reaction mixture was then washed with 60 ml of a 50 50 mixture of water saturated sodium chloride solution and 40 ml of saturated sodium chloride solution. The aqueous layers were discarded. One hundred fifty milliliters of lN sodium hydroxide was then added to the organic layer and 90 ml of volatile material was distilled off at atmospheric pressure. Another 100 ml of 1N sodium hydroxide was added to the solution, and the resulting solution was distilled until the head temperature rose above the boiling point of tetrahydrofuran, 660C. The pot temperature was held constant until HPLC confirmed the hydrolysis of the straight chain product by the basic solution. The resulting aniline precipitated out at this time and was removed by filtration. The filtrate was allowed to cool, then washed twice, with 150 ml and 100 ml of methylene chloride.The agueous layer was separated and placed under vacuum to remove any residual organic solvents. The solution was then placed in an ice bath and the pH was lowered to 7 with concentrated hydrochloric acid. The desired 2 bromo 4 nitro 2,3,3,3 tetrafluoro 2 trifluoromethyl propionanilide precipitated and was separated by filtration, washed with distilled water, and dried overnight in vacuo at room temperature, 42.95 grams 86.0 in 99.5 purity by HPLC. Other compounds of the present invention were prepared by the alkanoyl fluoride procedure except where noted otherwise. Preparations by the alkanoyl fluoride process were isolated as isomer mixtures except as noted in Examples 8 and 13. These other compounds of the present invention are listed in the following Examples. In each example, the identity of the product was confirmed by H NMR.The percentage of the desired branched chain isomer in the product1 as determined by F19NMR, is also reported. Example 4 2 Cyano 4 nitro 2,3,3,3 tetrafluoro 2 trifluoromethyl propionanilide, m.p., 100 101 C, yield 50 72 branched isomer . Analysis calculated for C11H4F7N3 O3 Theory C, 36.79 H, 1.12 N, 11.70 Found C, 37.05 H, 1.22 N, 11.89. Example 5 2 Methyl 4 nitro 2,3,3,3 tetrafluoro 2 trifluoromethyl propionanilide, m.p., 120 122 C, yield 22 93 branched isomer . Analysis calculated for C11H7F7N2O3 Theory C, 37.95 H, 2.03 N, 8.05 Found C, 38.10 H, 1.95 N, 8.26. Example 6 2 trifluoromethyl 4 nitro 2,3,3,3 tetra fluoro 2 trifluoromethyl propionanilide, m.p., 53 540C, yield 15 95 branched isomer . Analysis calculated for C11H4F10N2 O3 Theory C, 32.85 H, 1.00 N, 6.97 Found C, 32.79 H, 1.15 N, 7.01. Example 7 2,3 ,4 ,5 ,6 ,2,3,3,3 Nonafluoro 2 tri fluoromethyl propionanilide, m.p., 137 1420C, yield 85 60 branched isomer . Analysis calculated for C1oHFl2NO Theory C, 31.68 H, 0.27 N, 3.69 Found C, 31.42 H, 0.23 N, 3.89. Example 8 2 Chloro 4 nitro 2,3,3,3 tetrafluoro 2 trifluoromethyl propionanilide, m.p., 52 530C, yield 94 86 branched isomer . Analysis calculated for C10H4ClF7N2O3 Theory C, 32.59 H, 1.09 N, 7.60 Found C, 32.82 H, 0.97 N, 7.63. This product was purified by treatment with potassium carbonate ethanol, as follows. The product 4 grams 0.0108 mole was dissolved in 20 ml of 95 ethanol and potassium carbonate 1.1 gram 0.008 mole was added. The mixture was maintained for 5 days at room temperature. The ethanol was then evaporated off at room temperature. Potassium carbonate 1.1 gram in 50 ml of water was added at 400C with vigorous stirring. The mixture was filtered and washed with 400C water. The filtrate was cooled, acidified with HC1, filtered, and air dried, yielding 2.8 grams 70 yield of purified product melting at 670C. The gas chromatogram and F19 NMR confirmed that the product was 992 branched isomer. Example 9 2 ,3 ,4 ,6 ,2,3,3,3 Octafluoro 2 trifluoro methyl propionanilide, m.p., 104 1080C, yield 31 78 branched isomer . Analysis calculated for CloH2F1lNO Theory C, 33.26 H, 0.56 N, 3.88 Found C, 33.54 H, 0.78 N, 3.94. Example 10 2 ,4l,5 Trichloro 2,3,3,3 tetrafluoro 2 trifluoromethyl propionanilide, m.p., 69 72 C, yield 55 87 branched isomer . Analysis calculated for CloH3Cl3F7NO Theory C, 30.60 H, 0.77 N, 3.57 Found C, 30.69 H, 1.01 N, 3.62. Another preparation of the same compound was made, m.p., 80 81 C, yield 67 91 branched isomer . Found C, 30.47 H, 1.04 N, 3.43. Example 11 2 ,3 ,5 ,6 ,2,3,3,3 Octafluoro 2 trifluoro methyl propionanilide, m.p., 94 990C, yield 69 82 branched isomer . Analysis calculated for C1oH2FllNO Theory C, 33.26 H, 0.56 N, 3.88 Found C, 33.06 H, 0.34 N, 4.00. Example 12 2 ,3 ,4 ,5 Tetrachloro 2,3,3,3 tetrafluoro 2 trifluoromethyl propionanilide, m.p., 82 830C, yield 18 95 branched isomer . Analysis calculated for C1oH2Cl4F7NO Theory C, 28.13 H, 0.47 N, 3.28 Found C, 28.35 H, 0.52 N, 3.30EMI16.1 EMI16.2 Example 13EMI16.3 EMI16.4 2 ,5 Dichloro 4 nitro 2,3,3,3 tetrafluoro 2 trifluoromethyl propionanilide was prepared by the olefin procedure, m.p. 80 820C, yield 12 99 branched isomer EMI16.5 Analysis calculated for CloH3Cl2F7N203 EMI16.6 Theory C, 29.80 H, 0.75 N, 6.95 EMI16.7 Found C, 29.90 H, 0.53 N,EMI16.8 2 , 5 Dichloro 4 nitro 2,3, 3, 3 tetrafluoro 2 trifluoromethyl propionanilide was also prepared by the alkanoyl fluoride procedure, m.p., 81 83 C, yield 47 94 branched isomer . Microanalysis showed Found C, 30.07 H, 0.53 N, 6.92. This product was purified by treatment with potassium carbonate, as described above in Example 8, m.p. 83 850C, yield 82 of 99 branched isomer. Example 14 2 ,3 Dichloro 2,3,3,3 tetrafluoro 2 tri fluoromethyl propionanilide, m.p., 71 73 C, yield 32 99.4 branched isomer . Analysis calculated for C10H4 Cl2F7NO Theory C, 33.55 H, 1.13 N, 3.91 Found C, 33.59 H, 1.25 N, 3.95EMI17.1 Example 15 N 5 Nitro 2 pyridyl 2,3,3, 3 tetrafluoro 2 trifluoromethyl propionamide, m.p., 75 770C, yield 42 97 branched isomer . Analysis calculated for C,H F7N303 Theory C, 32.26 H, 1.20 N, 12.54 Found C, 32.19 H, 1.00 N, 12.45.EMI17.2 Example 16 2 ,6 Dichloro 4 nitro 2,3,3, 3 tetrafluoro 2 trifluoromethyl propionanilide, m.p., 128 1340C, yield 13 59 branched isomer . Analysis calculated for C1OH3C12F7N203 Theory C, 29.80 H, 0.75 N, 6.95 Found C, 29.84 H, 0.97 N, 7.09. Example 17 2 Methyl 4 nitro 5 chloro 2,3,3,3 tetra fluoro 2 trifluoromethyl propionanilide, m.p., 114 1160C, yield 53 91 branched isomer . Analysis calculated for C11H6C lF7N2 O3 Theory C, 34.53 H, 1.58 N, 7.32 Found C, 34.40 H, 1.61 N, 7.31. Example 18 2 ,4 ,6 Trichloro 2,3,3,3 tetrafluoro 2 trifluoromethyl propionanilide, m.p., 133 1350C, yield 33 87 branched isomer . Analysis calculated for CloH3Cl3F7NO Theory C, 30.60 H, 0.77 N, 3.57 Found C, 30.47 H, 0.92 N, 3.47. Example 19 3 ,4 ,5 Trichloro 2,3,3,3 tetrafluoro 2 trifluoromethyl propionanilide, m.p., 145 146 C, yield 38 95 branched isomer . Analysis calculated for CloH3C13FO Theory C, 30.60 H, 0.77 N, 3.57 Found C, 30.82 H, 1.06 N, 3.50. Example 20 2 Chloro 5 nitro 2, 3,3, 3 tetrafluoro 2 tri fluoroiethyl propionanilide, m.p., 68 700C, yield 35 84 branched isomer . Analysis calculated for CloH4ClF7N203 Theory C, 32.59 H, 1.09 N, 7.60 Found C, 32.64 H, 1.33 N, 7.49. Example 21 2 ,4 Dinitro 2,3,3,3 tetrafluoro 2 trifluoro methyl propionanilide, m.p., 50 510C, yield 21 85 branched isomer . Analysis calculated for CloH4F7N305 Theory C, 31.68 H, 1.06 N, 11.08 Found C, 31.42 H, 1.15 N, 10.84. Example 22 2 Iodo 4 nitro 2,3,3,3 tetrafluoro 2 trifluoromethyl propionanilide, m.p., 107 1100C, yield 8 39 branched isomer . Analysis calculated for C10H41F7N2 O3 Theory C, 26.11 H, 0.88 N, 6.09 Found C, 26.28 H, 1.11 N, 5.90.EMI20.1 Example 23EMI20.2 EMI20.3 Cyano 4 chloro 2,3,3,3 tetrafluoro 2 trifluoromethyl propionanilide, m.p., 90 910C, yield 5 91 branched isomer .EMI20.4 Analysis calculated for CllH4ClF7N2O Theory C, 37.90 H, 1.16 N, 8.04 Found C, 38.08 H, 1.10 N, 7.84.EMI20.5 Example 24 2 Bromo 4 nitro 2,3,3,3 tetrafluoro 2 trifluoromethyl propionanilide, tetra n propylammonium salt 2 Bromo 4 nitro 2, 3,3, 3 tetrafluoro 2 trifluoromethyl propionanilide, 20 grams of material free of straight chain isomer 0.048 mole was dissolved in 200 ml of acetone. The solution was maintained at room temperature while 2N sodium hydroxide 25 ml 0.05 mole and tetra n propylammonium bromide 13.5EMI20.6 grams 0.051 mole were added. The reaction mixture was stirred for 45 minutes, evaporated at room temperature, and partitioned between methylene chloride water.The organic phase was washed twice with water, dried over sodium sulfate, and evaporated to dryness, yielding 28.7 grams of the intended salt 99 yield . The identity of the product was confirmed by H NMR. The product solidified upon standing, m.p., 57 650C. Analysis calculated for C22H31BrF7N303 Theory C, 44.16 H, 5.22 N, 7.02 Found C, 44.14 H, 5.05 N, 6.80. A second preparation was conducted similarly, and the identity of the product was confirmed by H NMR.The yield was 9.2 grams 91 , m.p. 72 750C. Found C, 43.88 H, 4.50 N, 6.83. A third preparation was similarly conducted, except the starting anilide was only 86 of the desired 2 bromo 4 nitro 2,3,3,3 tetrafluoro 2 trifluoromethyl propionanilide, the remaining 14 being the corresponding straight chain isomer. The product of this reaction was an oil. The identity was confirmed byH NMR. Found C, 44.02 H, 5.07 N, 7.02. Other salts were prepared in similar manner and are reported below. In each preparation, the identity of the product was confirmed by H NMR. The starting anilide in these preparations, and therefore the corresponding salt as well, was either essentially pure 2 bromo 4 nitro 2,3,3,3 tetrafluoro 2 tri fluoromethyl propionanilide referred to as isomer pure or a mixture of 86 of this compound and 14 of the corresponding straight chain isomer referred to as 86 isomer . Example 25 2 Bromo 4 nitro 2,3,3,3 tetrafluoro 2 trifluoromethyl propionanilide, tetraethylammonium salt, monohydrate, m.p., 1120C, yield 60 isomer pure . Analysis calculated for C18H25BrF7N3O4 Theory C, 38.59 H, 4.50 N, 7.50 Found C, 38.85 H, 4.25 N, 7.48. Example 26 2 Bromo 4 nitro 2,3,3,3 tetrafluoro 2 trifluoromethyl propionanilide, tetra n butylammonium salt, monohydrate, m.p., 78 80 C, yield 66 isomer pure . Analysis calculated for C26H41BrF7N3 O4 Theory C, 46.44 H, 6.14 N, 6.25 Found C, 46.66 H, 6.29 N, 6.12. Example 27 2 Bromo 4 nitro 2,3,3,3 tetrafluoro 2 trifluoromethyl propionanilide, tetra n pentylammonium salt, monohydrate. Preparation 1, m.p., 55 570C, yield 80 isomer pure . Analysis calculated for C30H49BrF7N304 Theory C, 49.45 H, 6.73 N, 5.77 Found C, 50.80 H, 6.93 N, 5.69.F84 1N9 277 Preparation 2, m.p., 54 56 C, yield 76 86 isomer Example 28 2 Bromo 4 nitro 2,3,3,3 tetrafluoro 2 trifluoromethyl propionanilide, tetra n heptylammonium salt, monohydrate, an oil, yield 50 isomer pure . Analysis calculated for C38H65BrF7N304 Theory C, 54.28 H, 7.79 N, 5.00 Theory C, 54.47 H, 7.66 N, 5.11 Found C, 56.27 H, 8.68 N, 4.59. non hydrate Example 29 2 Bromo 4 nitro 2,3,3,3 tetrafluoro 2 trifluoromethyl propionanilide, methyltri n octylammonium salt, monohydrate, an oil, yield 70 86 isomer . Analysis calculated for C35H59BrF7N3 O4 Theory C, 52.11 H, 7.20 N, 5.36 Found C, 52.63 H, 7.39 N, 5.26. Example 30 2 Bromo 4 nitro 2,3,3,3 tetrafluoro 2 trifluoromethyl propionanilide, methyltris C8 C10 ammonium salt, monohydrate, an oil, yield 60 86 isomer . Example 31 2 Bromo 4 nitro 2,3,3,3 tetrafluoro 2 trifluoromethyl propionanilide, hexadecyltrimethylammonium salt, monohydrate. Preparation 1, an oil, yield 48 isomer pure . Analysis calculated for C29H47BrF7N3O4 Theory C, 48.74 H, 6.63 N, 5.88 Found C, 49.03 H, 6.39 N, 5.78. Preparation 2, an oil, yield 6 86 isomer . Found C, 47.54 H, 6.09 N, 5.90. Example 32 2 Bromo 4 nitro 2,3,3,3 tetrafluoro 2 trifluoromethyl propionanilide, octadecyltrimethylammonium salt, m.p., 45 480C, yield 52 86 isomer . Analysis calculated for C31H49 BrF7N3 O3 Theory C, 51.38 H, 6.76 N, 5.80 Found C, 52.03 H, 6.67 N, 5.67. Example 33 2 Bromo 4 nitro 2,3,3,3 tetrafluoro 2 trifluoromethyl propionanilide, benzyltri n butylammonium salt, monohydrate, an oil, yield 14 86 isomer . Analysis calculated for C29H39BrF7N304 Theory C, 49.30 H, 5.56 N, 5.95 Found C, 50.21 H, 5.96 N, 5.64. Example 34 2 Bromo 4 nitro 2,3,3,3 tetrafluoro 2 trifluoromethyl propionanilide, dimethylbis C18 C22 ammonium salt, monohydrate, m.p., 65 70 C, yield 48 86 isomer Example 35 2 Bromo 4 nitro 2,3,3,3 tetrafluoro 2 trifluoromethyl propionanilide, dimethylbis C10 C18 ammonium salt, an oil, yield 42 isomer pure . Example 36 2 Bromo 4 nitro 2,3,3,3 tetrafluoro 2 trifluoromethyl propionanilide, dimethylbis C14 C18 ammonium salt, monohydrate, an oil, yield 45 86 isomer . Example 37 2 Bromo 4 nitro 2, 3,3, 3 tetrafluoro 2 trifluoromethyl propionanilide, tributylammonium salt, m.p., 58 600C, yield 87 isomer pure . Analysis calculated for C22H31BrF7N203 Theory C, 44.15 H, 5.18 N, 7.02 Found C, 43.27 H, 3.47 N, 6.96. Except where noted otherwise, the following additional examples were prepared by the foregoing procedures. Example 38 4 Nitro 2,3,3, 3 tetrafluoro 2 trifluoro methyl propionanilide, m.p., 112 1150C, yield 60 85 branched isomer . Analysis calculated for C10HgF7N203 Theory C, 35.95 H, 1.51 N, 8.38 Found C, 36.21 H, 1.50 N, 8.39. Example 39 2 Chloro 5 fluorosulfonyl 2,3,3,3 tetra fluoro 2 trifluoromethyl propionanilide, m.p., 63 650C, yield 33 87 branched isomer . Analysis calculated for C1oH4ClF8NO3S Theory C, 29.61 H, 0.99 N, 3.45 Found C, 29.88 H, 0.98 N, 3.27.EMI27.1 Example 40 N 4 Nitro 1 naphthyl 2,3,3, 3 tetrafluoro 2 trifluoromethyl propionamide, m.p., 127 1280C, yield 5 80 branched isomer . Analysis calculated for C14H7F7N203 Theory C, 43.77 H, 1.84 N, 7.29 Found C, 43.96 H, 1.82 N, 7.52. Example 41 2 Bromo 4 chloro .6 cyano 2,3,3,3 tetra fluoro 2 trifluoromethyl propionanilide, an oil, yield 45 53 branched isomer . Analysis calculated for C11H3BrC1F7N2O Theory C, 30.91 H, 0.71 N, 6.55 Found C, 31.15 H, 0.99 N, 6.30.EMI27.2 Example 42 3 Chloro 4 nitro 2,3,3,3 tetrafluoro 2 tri fluoromethyl propionanilide, m.p., 55 570C, yield 9 73 branched isomer . Analysis calculated for C10H4ClF7N2O3 Theory C, 32.59 H, 1.09 N, 7.60 Found C, 32.55 H, 1.34 N, 7.30. Example 43 2 Bromo 4 nitro 2,3,3,3 tetrafluoro 2 trifluoromethyl propionanilide was reacted with methyl iodide, in acetone and in the presence of potassium carbonate, yielding N methyl 2 bromo 4 nitro 2,3,3,3 tetrafluoro 2 trifluoromethyl propionanilide, an oil, yield 70 99 branched isomer . Analysis calculated for CllH6BrF7N203 Theory C, 30.94 H, 1.42 N, 6.56 Found C, 31.01 H, 1.28 N, 6.77. Example 44 2 Bromo 4 nitro 6 cyano 2 3,3, 3 tetrafluoro 2 trifluoromethyl propionanilide, m.p., 109 111 C, yield 10 30 branched isomer . Analysis calculated for C11H3BrF7N3O3 Theory C, 30.16 H, 0.69 N, 9.59 Found C, 30.41 H, 0.62 N, 9.81. Example 45 2 Methyl 3 nitro 2, 3,3, 3 tetrafluoro 2 tri fluoromethyl propionanilide, m.p., 100 1020C, yield 55 82 branched isomer . Analysis calculated for C11H7F7N2 O3 Theory C, 37.95 H, 2.03 N, 8.05 Found C, 37.68 H, 2.01 N, 8.01. Example 46 2 ,4 Dinitro 5 ethoxy 2,3,3,3 tetrafluoro 2 trifluoromethyl propionanilide, m.p., 117 1190C, was obtained in 10 yield from the attempted purification of crude 2 ,4 dinitro 5 fluoro 2,3,3,3 tetrafluoro 2 trifluoromethyl propionanilide with K2CO3 in ethanol 99 branched isomer . Analysis calculated for C12H8F7N306 Theory C, 34.04 H, 1.89 N, 9.93 Found C, 34.19 H, 1.80 N, 10.15. Example 47 2 Bromo 4 nitro 2,3,3,3 tetrafluoro 2 penta fluoroethoxy propionanilide, yield 51 , in mixture with 2 bromo 4 nitro 2,2,3,3 tetrafluoro 3 pentafluoroethoxy propionanilide and an unidentified third component. Analysis calculated for CllH4BrFgN204 Theory C, 27.56 H, 0.84 N, 5.85 Found C, 27.46 H, 0.91 N, 5.75. Example 48 The mixture from the preceding example was purified by treatment with K2CO3 ethanol, yielding 2 bromo 4 nitro 2,3,3,3 tetrafluoro 2 pentafluoroethoxy propionanilide, m.p., 490C, yield 50 14 unidentified third component . Analysis calculated for CllH4BrF9N204 Theory C, 27.58 H, 0.84 N, 5.85 Found C, 27.80 H, 1.04 N, 6.08. Example 49 2 Bromo 4 nitro 2,3,3,3 tetrafluoro 2 octa fluoromorpholino propionanilide, m.p., 50 520C, yield 74 99 branched isomer . Analysis calculated for C13H4BrF12N3 O4 Theory C, 27.20 H, 0.70 N, 7.32 Found C, 27.42 H, 0.75 N, 7.32. Example 50 2 Bromo 4 nitro 2,3,3,3 tetrafluoro 2 hepta fluoro n propoxy propionanilide, m.p., 49 51 C, yield 35 . A minor component of 2 bromo 4 nitro 2,3,3,3 tetrafluoro 2 nonafluoro n butoxy propionanilide was detected by F19 NMR. Analysis calculated for C12H4BrF11N2 O4 Theory C, 27.22 H, 0.76 N, 5.29 Found C, 26.99 H, 0.72 N, 5.55. Example 51 2 ,4 Dinitro 2,3,3,3 tetrafluoro 2 hepta fluoro n propoxy propionanilide, an oil, yield 50 . A minor component of 2 ,4 dinitro 2,3,3,3 tetrafluoro 2 nonafluoro n butoxy propionanilide was detected byF19 NMR. Analysis calculated for C12H4F11N3O6 Theory C, 29.11 H, 0.81 N, 8.49 Found C, 29.31 H, 1.05 N, 8.56. Example 52 2 Bromo 4 nitro 2 trifluoromethyl 2,3,3,4,4,5,5,5 octafluorovaleranilide, m.p., 39 400C, yield 44 isomer pure . Analysis calculated for C12H4BrF11N2O3 Theory C, 28.07 H, 0.78 N, 5.46 Found C, 28.42 H, 0.96 N, 5.67. Example 53 2 Trifluoromethyl 4 bromo 2,3,3,3 tetra fluoro 2 trifluoromethyl propionanilide, m.p., 37 40 C, yield 49 81 branched isomer . Analysis calculated for C11H4BrF10NO Theory C, 30.30 H, 0.92 N, 3.21 Found C, 30.07 H, 1.02 N, 3.20. Example 54 2 ,5 Dichloro 4 nitro 2,3,3,3 tetrafluoro 2 trifluoromethyl propionanilide, octadecyltrimethylammonium salt monohydrate, m.p., 80 820C, yield 99 96 branched isomer . Analysis calculated for C31H50Cl2F7N3 O4 Theory C, 51.81 H, 7.01 N, 5.74 Found C, 49.75 H, 5.56 N, 5.42. Example 55 2 ,5 Dichloro 4 nitro 2,3,3,3 tetrafluoro 2 tri fluoromethyl propionanilide, hexadecyltrimethylammonium salt, monohydrate, m.p., 79 81 C, yield 99 94 branched isomer . Analysis calculated for C29H46C12F7N304 Theory C, 49.43 H, 6.53 N, 5.96 Found C, 47.65 H, 6.11 N, 7.16. Example 56 2 Cyano 4 nitro 2,3,3,3 tetrafluoro 2 heptafluoro n propoxy propionanilide, m.p. 96 C, yield 17 . A minor component of 2 cyano 4 nitro 2,3,3,3 tetrafluoro 2 nonafluoro n butoxy propionanilide was detected by F19 NMR. Analysis calculated for C13H4F11N3 O4 Theory C, 32.86 H, 0.85 N, 8.84 Found C, 33.06 H, 1.14 N, 8.69. Example 57 2 ,4 Dinitro 5 fluoro 2,3,3,3 tetrafluoro 2 heptafluoro n propoxy propionanilide, an oil, yield 62 . A minor component of 2 ,4 dinitro 5 fluoro 2,3,3,3 tetrafluoro 2 nonafluoro n butoxy pro pionanilide was detected by F1 NMR. Analysis calculated for C12H3Fl2N306 Theory C, 28.09 H, 0.59 N, 8.19 Found C, 27.99 H, 0.75 N, 8.27. Example 58 2 ,4 Dinitro 2 trifluoromethyl 2,3,3,4,4, 5,5,5 octafluorovaleranilide, an oil, yield 13 . Analysis calculated for C12H4F11N3O5 Theory C, 36.08 H, 0.84 N, 8.77 Found C, 30.36 H, 0.88 N, 8.98. EMI34.1 Example 59EMI34.2 EMI34.3 4 Dinitro 5 fluoro 2 trifluoromethyl 2,3,3,4,4,5,5,5 octafluorovaleranilide, an oil, yield 58 .EMI34.4 Analysis calculated for C12H3F12N3O5 Theory C, 28.99 H, 0.61 N, 8.45 Found C, 29.20 H, 0.84 N, 8.71.EMI34.5 , Example 60EMI34.6 2l Bromo 4 chloro 6 cyano 2,3,3,3 tetra fluoro 2 heptafluoro n propoxy propionanilide, an oil, yield 51 . A minor component of 21 bromo 4 chloro 6 cyano 2,3,3,3 tetrafluoro 2 nonafluoro n butoxy propionanilide was detected by Fl9 NMR. EMI34.7 Analysis calculated for C1H3BrClF11N2 O2 EMI34.8 Theory C, 29.21 H, 0.61 N, 5.68 Found C, 29.41 H, 0.87 N, 5.48.EMI34.9 EMI34.10 Example 61EMI34.11 EMI34.12 Bromo 4 nitro 2,3,3,4,4,5,5,6,6,6 deca fluoro 2 pentafluoroethyl hexananilide.EMI34.13 EMI34.14 This compound was prepared from 2,3,3,4,4,5, 5,6,6,6 decafluoro 2 pentafluoroethyl hexanoic acid by conversion to the acid fluoride by electrochemical fluorination as follows EMI34.15 In a Teflon jar equipped with a stainless steel condensor maintained at from 40 to 500C., approximately 80 cc of commercial anhydrous HF underwent a pre electrolysis to remove the last traces of water.An electrode pack of about 2 in3 in size consisting of alternating nickel and carbon steel plates was used under a nitrogen atmosphere at a maximum current density of about 20 ma cm2 and at or below a cell voltage of 5.2 volts relative to a copper reference electrode.4.1 g of the acid was added and approximately 0.5 amp hrs was passed. The reaction mixture was extracted with four 20 cc portions of CFC13, and the extracts were added to 1.6 g of 2 bromo 4 nitroaniline and 1.5 g of triethylamine in 25 cc of methylene chloride. The organic layer was washed with dilute HC1, dried over magnesium sulfate, evaporated, and the residue was chromatographed on silica gel with toluene to give a crude mixture whose F19 NMR spectrum was consistent with the desired product. The crude mixture was chromatographed again with ethylacetate hexane 1 5 to produce 100 mg of the desired anilide, an oil, in 1.6 yield. Analysis calculated for C14H4BrF15N2 O3 Theory C, 27.43 H, 0.66 N, 4.57 Found C, 27.56 H, 0.73 N, 4.75. Insecticidal Utility As noted above, the compounds of the present invention exhibit excellent insecticidal and arachnicidal activity. Representative compounds of the invention were tested and found to be highly active against a variety of insects and arachnids, including southern armyworm larve Spodoptera eridania two spotted spider mite Tetranychus urticae melon aphid Aphis gossypii southern corn rootworm larve Diabrotica undecimpunctata howardi cotton bollworm Heliothis zea corn leafhopper Dalbulus malidis black cutworm Agrotis ipsilon diamondback moth Plutella xylostella German cockroach Blattella germanica The compounds of Examples 1 and 36 were evaluated for the control of corn rootworm at numerous locations throughout the midwestern U. S. Observations were also made for various parameters of phytotoxicity. Each compound was formulated as a 10 granule application rates were 0.85 3.4 grams 100 row feet. At most locations, each of the compounds controlled corn rootworm with no phytotoxicity. At some locations, phytotoxicity was observed, especially at higher rates.The phytotoxicity took the form of some delay in emergence, and the compound of Example 1 in addition showed crop injury on emergence, early and midseason root injury, and midseason crop injury. The phytotoxicity was observed despite the fact that many of the trials employed post presswheel placement, therefore suggesting the need for even better separation of the present compounds from the corn seed or a safer formulation. In European field trials at 1 4 kg ha on wheat, potatoes, and sugar beets, each of the compounds controlled wireworm. However, the compound of Example 1 exhibited crop injury to wheat and potatoes, and both compounds exhibited unacceptable crop injury to sugar beets. Application of Example 36 to bluegrass showed no injury. Although no insecticidal efficacy data were obtained in the trial, the finding suggests that the present compounds can be used for the control of turf insects. The compounds of the present invention are effective against organisms that attack foliage as well as organisms that live in the soil and attack roots and other underground parts of plants. Therefore, in another embodiment, the present invention is directed to a method of inactivating an insect or arachnid which comprises applying to a locus of the insect or arachnid an effective amount of one or more of the compounds of the present invention. Insects and arachnids against which the present method can be practiced include the various species identified above as well as many others, including, among the insects, the following Coleoptera Anthonomus grandis boll weevil Conotrachelus nenuphar plum curculio Curculio caryae pecan weevil Diabrotica spp. rootworm and cucumber beetles Echinocnemus squameus rice plant weevil Epitrix hirtipennis tobacco flea beetle Eutheola humilis rugiceps sugarcane beetle Hypera postica alfalfa weevil Leptinotarsa decimlineata Colorado potato beetle Lissorhoptrus oryzophilus rice water weevil Oulema oryzae rice leaf beetle Phyllotreta striolata striped flea beetle Melanotus spp. and Agriotes spp. wireworms Stenolophus lecontei seedcorn beetle Popillia japonica Japanese beetle Sphenophorus maidis maize billbug Systena blanda palestriped flea beetleDiptera Contarinia sorghicola sorghum midge Dacus dorsalis oriental fruit fly Liriomyza spp. leaf miner Rhagoletis pomonella apple maggot Hylemia spp. and Delia spp. root and seed maggotsHeteroptera Anasa tristis squash bug Blissus leucopterus leucopterus chinch bug Euschistus servus brown stink bug Lygus lineolaris tarnished plant bug Nezara viridula southern green stink bug Oebalus pugnax rice stink bug Pseudatomoscelis seriatus cotton fleahopperHomoptera Clastoptera achatina pecan spittlebug Empoasca fabae potato leafhopper Eriosoma lanigerum wooly apple aphid Fiorinia theae tea scale Graminella nigrifrons blackfaced leafhopper Icerya purchasi cottony cushion scale Laodelphax striatellus small brown planthopper Lepidosaphes ulmi oystershell scale Myzus persicae green peach aphid Nephotettix cincticeps green rice leafhopper Niloparvata lugens brown rice planthopper Phylloxera devastatrix pecan phylloxera Planococcus citri citrus mealybug Psylla pyricola pear psylla Quadraspidiotus perniciosus San Jose scale Rhopalosiphum maidis corn leaf aphid Sipha flava yellow sugarcane aphid Sogatella furcifera whitebacked planthopper Spissistilus festinus threecornered alfalfa hopper Trialeurodes vaporariorum greenhouse whitefly Anuraphis maidiradicis corn root aphidHymenoptera Atta spp. leafcutter ants Camponotus spp. carpenter ants Dolichovespula spp. yellowjackets Solenopsis invicta red imported fire ant Tetramorium caespitum pavement ant Vespidae spp. hornets, wasps I soptera Coptotermes formosanus Formosan subterranean termite Reticulitermes flavipes eastern subterranean termiteLepidoptera Agrotis spp. and other genera cutworms Alabama argillacea cotton leafworm Anticarsia gemmatalis velvetbean caterpillar Buccalatrix thurberiella cotton leafperforator Chilo suppressalis rice stem borer Choristoneura fumiferana spruce budworm Cydia pomonella codling moth Elasmopalpus lignosellus lesser cornstalk borer Grapholita molesta oriental fruitmoth Heliothis virescens tobacco budworm Heliothis zea cotton bollworm Keiferia lycopersicella tomato pinworm Ostrinia nubilalis European corn borer Parnara guttata rice skipper Pectinophora gossypiella pink bollworm Pieris rapae imported cabbageworm Plutella xylostella diamondback moth Pseudoplusia includens soybean looper Sesamia inferens rice swarming caterpillar Spodoptera littoralis Egyptian cotton leafworm Spodoptera spp. armyworms Synanthedon spp. clearwing moths Trichoplusia ni cabbage looper Tryporyza incertula yellow rice borer Crambus spp webworms OrthopterÅa Blatella spp. cockroaches Gryllus spp. field crickets Melanoplus spp. grasshoppers Periplaneta spp. cockroaches Scapteriscus acletus southern mole cricketThysanoptera Frankliniella tritici flower thrips Sericothrips variabilis soybean thrips Thrips simplex gladiolus thrips Thrips tabaci onion thrips and among the arachnids, the following Family Scientific Name Common NameACARIDAE Aleurobius farinae Flour mite Rhizoglyphus echinopus Bulb mite Rhizoglyphus elongatus Elongate mite Rhizoglyphus rhizophagus Root mite Rhizoglyphus sagittatae Balsam root mite Rhizoglyphus tarsalis Beet miteERIOPHYIDAE Abacarus hystrix Aceria brachytarsus Aceria essigi Redberry mite Aceria ficus Aceria fraxinivorus Aceria granati Aceria parapopuli Cottonwood mite Aceria sheldoni Citrus bud mite Aceria tulipae Wheat curl mite Aceria schlechtendali Apple rust mite Eriophyes convolvens Eriophyes insidiosus Eriophyes malifoliae Apple leaf mite Eriophyes padi Plum twig gall mite Eriophyes pruni Plum leaf gall mite Eriophyes pyri Pear leaf blister mite Eriophyes ramosus Juniper mite Eriophyes ribis Currant gall mite Eriophyes vitis Grape erineum mite Phyllocoptes gracilis Blackberry mite Phyllocoptruta oleivora Citrus rust mite Phytoptus ribis Trisetacus pini Pine needle mite Vasates amygdalina David peach mite Vasates cornutus Peach silver mite Vasates eurynotus Celery rust mite Vasates schlechtendali Rusty leaf miteEUPODIDAE Linopodes spp. PENTHALEIDAE Halotydeus destrustor Redlegged earth mite Black sand mite Penthaleus major Winter grain mite Blue oat mitePYEMOTIDAE Siteroptes cerealiumTARSONEMIDAE Polyphagotarsonemus latus Broad mite Steneotarsonemus pallidus Cyclamen mite TENUIPALP IDAE Brevipalpus californicus California citrus mite Brevipalpus obovatus Brevipalpus lewisi Flat mite Tenuipalpes granati Tenuipalpes pacificus TETRANYCHIDAE Bryobia arborea Brown mite Bryobia rubrioculus Eotetranychus coryli Eotetranychus lewisi Lewis spider mite Eotetranychus sexmaculatus Sixspotted spider mite Eotetranychus weldoni Weldon s mite Eotetranychus willametti Eutetranychus banksi Texas citrus mite Mediolata mali Apple mite Oligonychus ilicis Southern red mite Oligonychus pratensis Banks grass mite Oligonychus ununguis Spruce tree spider mite Panonychus citri Citrus red mite Panonychus ulmi European red mite Paratetranychus modestus Corn mite Paratetranychus pratensis Date mite Paratetranychus viridis Green mite Petrobia decepta Barley mite Schizotetranychus celarius Bamboo mite Schizotetranychus pratensis Alfalfa mite Tetranychus canadensis Fourspotted mite Tetranychus cinnabarinus Tetranydhus mcdanieli McDaniel mite Tetranychus paci ficus Pacific mite Tetranychus schoenei Schoene mite Tetranychus telarius Common red spider Tetranychus urticae Twospotted spider mite Tetranychus turkestani Strawberry mite Tetranychus desertorum Desert mite The present compounds are employed for the control of insects and arachnids in accordance with standard practices of the agricultural chemical industry. Thus, the compounds, while they can be employed alone, are preferably formulated with conventional adjuvants, as described in more detail in the section below concerning Formulations. The amount of the present compounds which will provide insecticidal and or arachnicidal activity is not critical and will vary widely, depending on the locus foliage, soil, etc. , the susceptibility of the particular insect or arachnid, the particular compound chosen, weather and soil conditions, and the like. In general, when employing the compounds in spray formulations to be applied to foliage, concentrations of from 1 to 5000 ppm are efficacious however, lesser concentrations such as from 1 to 100 ppm are often equally efficacious. In the case of application to soil to control soil dwelling organisms, concentrations in the soil of from 1 ppm or less to as much as 50 ppm provide good activity.With the more active members of the series, lesser concentrations of from 1 to 10 ppm provide good activity. Application of the compounds of the present invention is by conventional practices. Where the compounds are employed for the control of corn rootworm and other soil dwelling organisms that attack roots of plants, it is often preferred to apply a compound in a band along and including the crop row. This maximizes the protection of the crop, while minimizing the total amount of compound applied. Also, since the compounds of the present invention exhibit some phytotoxicity, it is preferred that the compounds be employed in a technique by which a pesticide is prevented from contacting seeds, for example, post presswheel placement. Preferred Embodiments Although the compounds of the present invention are generally effective for the control of numerous insect and arachnid species, they have been found to be exceptionally effective for the control of the larval stage of corn rootworm Diabrotica spp. Therefore, a preferred embodiment of the present invention is a method of inactivating a corn rootworm larva which comprises applying to a locus of the larva an effective amount of a present compound. In addition to this preferred embodiment in the identity of the insects or arachnids controlled by the present invention, there are preferred embodiments among the compounds of the present invention. The preferences among compounds of all of formulae I, II, and III are 1 a preference for R3 hydrogen, 2 a preference for R4 substituted aryl as defined, more particularly, for R4 substituted phenyl as defined, and especially for the following substituted phenyl groups a 2,4 disubstituted phenyl of the formulaEMI46.1 wherein R8 chloro, bromo, iodo, cyano, methyl, trifluoromethyl, or nitro and b 2,4,5 or 2,4,6 trisubstituted phenyl of the formulaEMI47.1 wherein R11 bromo, chloro, or methyl.The preferences among compounds of formula I are 1 RO fluoro and 2 each of R1 and R2 CF3, C2F5, or C3F7. Among the salts of the present invention, it has been found that the ammonium salts are preferred, and among the ammonium salts, the following particular salts are especially advantageous hexadecyltrimethylammonium, octadecyltrimethylammonium, tributylammonium, tris 2 hydroxyethyl ammonium, tris 2 or 3 hydroxypropyl ammonium, and dimethylbis ClO Cl ammonium. Herbicidal Activity In addition to exhibiting activity against insects and arachnids, the present compounds also exhibit some herbicidal activity. In general, the herbicidal activity is expressed at rates higher than those at which insecticidal and arachnicidal activity is exhibited. Therefore, the preferred insecticidal arachnicidal utility of the present invention can generally be practiced with minimal or no phytotoxicity. Representative compounds of the present invention were evaluated for herbicidal efficacy in standard screening tests, and it was found that the compounds typically exhibit herbicidal activity at rates of from 0.05 to 8 lbs acre. Therefore, in another embodiment, the present invention is directed to a method for inhibiting the growth of a plant which comprises applying to the plant an effective amount of a compound of the present invention. The compounds can be applied pre emergently for the control of germinating seeds or post emergently for the control of existing vegetation. The compounds are preferably formulated as described below. Other Utilities Compounds of the present invention have exhibited nematocidal, fungicidal, anthelmintic, and ectoparasiticidal activity. By appropriate selection of rates and methods of application, therefore, the present compounds can be employed for these other utilities.For all of these uses, the compounds are employed in conventional manners. Accordingly, in another embodiment, the present invention is directed to a method of inhibiting a plant pathogenic fungal organism which comprises applying to a locus of the organism an inhibiting amount of a compound of the present invention. The method is practiced in accordance with standard techniques for the use of fungicides. The compounds can be formulated as described below in the Formulations section. In general, good fungicidal efficacy can be expected at rates of 0.5 5.b lbs acre. Formulations For any of their various uses, the compounds of the present invention are preferably formulated with a suitable agriculturally acceptable carrier. Typically such a formulation will contain from about 0.05 to about 95.0 percent by weight of the active ingredient.Examples of such compositions include sprayable formulations, such as wettable powders, aqueous suspensions and emulsifiable concentrates and solid compositions, such as dusts, granules, and dry flowable pellets. The compounds can also be formulated with fertilizer and applied to soil to achieve both a utility in accordance with the present invention as well as fertilization of the crop. Sprayable formulations are in the form of concentrated compositions which can be diluted with water to form water dispersions or emulsions containing in the range from about 0.05 percent to about 10 percent of the active agent by weight. Such water dispersions or emulsions are sprayed onto plants or onto soil. The concentrated compositions may be either solids, usually known as wettable powders or dry flowables, or liquids, usually known as emulsifiable concentrates and aqueous suspensions. A typical wettable powder comprises an intimate mixture of an active ingredient of the invention, an inert carrr , and surfactants. The concentration of the active agent is usually from about 25 percent to about 90 percent by weight. The inert carrier is usually chosen from among the attapulgite clays, the montmorillonite clays, the diatomaceous earths, the kaolinites, or the purified silicates. Effective surfactants, comprising from about 0.5 percent to about 10 percent by weight of the wettable powder, are chosen from among the condense,d naphthalenesulfonates, the alkyl sulfates and the alkyl arylethoxylates. Suspending agents, such as the sulfonated lignins, can also be added. A typical emulsifiable concentrate comprises from about 0.1 to about 6 pounds from about 0.045 kg to about 3.05 kg of a compound of the invention per gallon of liquid, dissolved in a mixture of organic solvents and emulsifiers. The organic solvent is chosen with regard to its solvency and its cost. Useful solvents include the aromatics, especially the xylenes and the heavy aromatic naphthas. Hydrophilic cosolvents such as DMF, cyclohexanone, and the glycol ethers such as 2methoxyethanol may be included. Other organic solvents may also be used, including the terpenic solvents and kerosene methyl heptyl ketone and other high molecular weight ketones cyclohexyl acetate and other high molecular weight esters.Suitable emulsifiers for emulsifiable concentrates are chosen from the alkyl bnzenesulfonates, naphthalenesulfonates, and nonionic surfactants such as alkylphenol adducts of polyoxyethylene, and are used at similar percentages as for wettable powders. An aqueous suspension, or flowable, is comprised of a finely ground suspension of the active ingredient dispersed in a water based system. This type of formulation is particularly useful for compounds with low water solubility. The concentration of active agent is usually from about 15 to 60 percent by weight. A typical aqueous suspension may comprise wetting and dispersing agents, antifreeze components, thickening or bulking agents, as well as ater and toe active ingredient. Dust compositions containing a compound of the present invention usually contain from about 0.1 to about 50 percent by weight of the compound. Dusts are prepared by intimately mixing and finely grinding the active agent with an inert solid such as ground montmorillonite clay, attapulgite clay, talc, ground volcanic rock, kaolin clay, or other inert, relatively dense, inexpensive substances. Solid, granular compositions are convenient for the application of compounds of this invention to the soil and will contain the active agent in an amount from about 0.1 to about 25 percent by weight. Granules comprise a compound of the invention dispersed on a granular inert carrier such as coarsely ground clay of from abo nt 0 I to about 3 mm particle size. The active ingredient is most conveniently applied to the clay by dissolving it in an inexpensive solvent, such as ae tone, methylene chloride, xylene or other petroleum solvents, methqxy propylene glycol, or the like, and applying the solution to the sized clay in an appropriate solids mixer. The solvent is then typically removed by evaporation however removal is not essential.Alternatively, any of the present compounds which is an oil can be sprayed, with or without heating, directly onto clay. Likewise, any of the present compounds which is a solid can be melted and then sprayed directly onto clay. Representative formulations of the present invention are illustrated below. Example A 10 Granule, Compound of Example 24 The compound of Example 24 was dissolved in acetone in the ratio of 1 gram of compound per 4 grams of acetone . Propylene glycol was added and the mixture stirred, then poured over the carrier, mixed well, and air dried. Ingredient Percent by WeightCompound of Example 24 10Propylene glycol 5Florex 24 48 RVM 85 100 RVM regular volatile material Example B 10 Granule, Compound of Example 1 The compound of Example 1 was dissolved in methylene chloride a 12 solution , poured over the carrier, mixed well, and air dried. Ingredient Percent by WeightCompound of Example 1 10Florex 24 48 RVM go 100 Example C 10 Granule, Compound of Example 36 The compound of Example 36 was formulated in the same procedure as the immediately preceding example. Ingredient Percent by WeightCompound of Example 36 10Florex 24 48 RVM 90 100 Example D 10 Granule, Compound of Example 37 The compound of Example 1 was dissolved in methylene chloride and an equimolar amount of tributylamine was slowly added to the solution to produce the salt of Example 37. The solution then containing the salt of Example 37 was poured over the carrier, mixed well, and air dried. Ingredient Percent by WeightCompound of Example 37 14.5Lowe s clay 30 40 mesh, Bloomfield, Missouri 85.5 100.0 Examples E U 10 Granule, Compound of Example 36 The procedure of the preceding example was used to make four 10 granular formulations from the compound of Example 1 and dimethylbis Cl4 Cl8 ammonium chloride, the latter estimated to be only 75 pure, yielding formulations of the compound of Example 36.The four carriers were as follows Oil Dri Mississippi Grey Clay Oil pri Mississippi Brown Clay Florex Clay LVM low volatile material Lowe s Oran, Missouri Clay The composition of all four formulations was as follows. Ingredient Percent by WeightCompound of Example 36 11.9Carrier 88.1 100.0 Examples I and J 10 Granule, Compounds of Examples 1 and 36, Carrier Study Various carriers were evaluated for 10 granular formulations of each of the compounds ofExamples 1 and 36. Each compound was dissolved in dichloromethane, mixed, poured onto the respective carrier, mixed well, and air dried. The carriers evaluated were as follows. Oil Dri Mississippi Grey clay this same clay is also referred to as Agsorb RVM MS Oil Dri Mississippi Brown clay this same clay is also referred to as Agsorb LVM MS Oil Dri Georgia white clay Oil Dry Corporation Florex RVM Florex LVM Floridin Company Agsorb LVM Oil Dry Corporation Attapulgus RVM Englehardt Minerals Bentonite Granular American Colloid Pike s Peak clay 9 J General Reduction Crop. KWK Volclay American Colloid Lowe s Oran, Missouri clay Lowe s Bloomfield, Missouri clay Lowe s Industrial Products, Inc. All formulations had the same composition Ingredient Percent by WeightCompound of Example 1 or Example 36 10Carrier 90 100 Based on the foregoing formulations, Oil DriMississippi Grey clay and Oil Dri Mississippi Brown clay are preferred carriers for the parent compounds, whereas Florex LVM clay and Lowe s Oran Missouri clay are preferred carriers for the salts. Starting Materials As taught above, the compounds of the present invention are prepared by the reaction of an acyl halide and an aniline, l aminonaphthalene, or 2 amino 5nitropyridine EMI57.1 These starting materials are either known compounds or are prepared in known procedures. Essentially all of the anilines are known compounds. l Aminonaphthalene and 2 amino 5 nitropyridine are likewise known compounds. Some of the alkanoyl halides are known compounds. The following are described in theliterature EMI57.2 Y ReferenceCN A, B, CCF3 D, E n C3F7 F, G The following are also described in the literature CF3 3CCOF Reference D CF3 2BrCCOF Reference H CF3 2ClCCOF Reference I CF3 2 CH3 CCOF Reference J References A. U.S. 4,031,124 1977 B. U.S. 3,933,767 1976 C. U.S. 3,852,326 1974 D. U.S. 3,113,967 1963 E. J. Am. Chem. Soc., 84, 4275 1962 F. U.S. 4,172,016 1979 G. J. F. Chem,, 12 1 25 1978 H. Chem. Abs. 56, 312b 1961 I. Tetrahedron, 27 3345 3355 1971 J. J. F. Chem., 29 471 474 1985 Other of the alkanoyl halide starting materials can be prepared in analogous manner. In addition, most of the starting alkanoyl halides can be prepared by electrochemical fluorination of precursor non fluorinated compounds EMI59.1 tb Substituent SEP on tb present SEP starting SEP Precursor tb SEP material SEP substituent SEP Reference tb SEP F SEP H SEP Hudlicky SEP following SEP table tb SEP CFs SEP CH3 tb SEP C2Fs SEP C2115 SEP 1 tb SEP n C3F7 SEP n C3H7 SEP tt tb SEP ORf SEP OR SEP A tb SEP Rf tb SEP f tb SEP N SEP NR2 SEP B,C,D tb SEP Rf tb Similarly, many of the alkanoyl halide starting materials are conveniently prepared by electrochemical fluorination of the precursors listed above, which are already partially fluorinated. References A. U.S. 2,594,272 1952 B. U.K. 666,733 1952 C. Chem. Abs., 65, 2140g 1966 D. Chem. Abs., 62, 16089d 1965 A general reference on electrochemical fluorination is Chemistry of Organic Fluorine Compounds by M. Hudlicky Horwood Ltd., 1976 , especially page 73.