# Improved recombinant hosts, their production and use.

## Abstract
A genomically modified host is provided wherein a regulatable promoter is more effectively induced due to inefficient production of an aporepressor activator. The same regulatable promoter is then used on recombinant expression vectors transformed into the host for recom binant protein production. This results in higher levels of expression of the desired recombinantly produced protein.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A recombinant expression system for heterologous protein which comprises a procaryotic genomically altered host transformed with a DNA sequence having a desired heterologous coding sequence..in operable linkage to a regulatable promotor, wher.ein said host produces an aporepressor activator for said promotor at lower levels than does the wild type form of said host. 2. A recombinant expression system for heterologous .protein wh.ich comprises a procaryotic host transformed with a DNA sequence containing a desired,heterol,ogous coding sequence in operable linkage to a regulatable promotor, wherein said host is genomicallyaltered by modification of the indigenous operon controlled by said regulatable promotor. 3. .A system.as claimed,in claim 1 or claim 2 wherein said regulatable promotor is the trp promotor. 4. A system as claimed in claim 2 or claim 3 when dependent upon claim 2 wherein said modification results in a.less active form of the native encoded product. 5. A system as claimed in claim 4 wherein said modification is in the trpA gene and said host is a derivative of E. coli K12 strain MM294. 6. A system as claimed in claim 5 which is E. coli MM294 A46PR9 transformed with an expression vector containing the trp promotpr. 7. A system as claimed in claim l or claim 3 when dependent upon claim 1 wherein said host is genomically altered by impairing the ability of the host to produce an apepressor activator for said regulatable promotor. 8. A method for increasing the efficiency of recombinant protein production which comprises culturing an expression system as defined in any one of claims 1 to 7. 9. E. coli MM294 A46PR9. 10. A process for producing a recombinant expression system for heterologous protein production of increased efficiency which compris es modifying a sequence in the genome of a procaryotic host under the control of a regulatable promotor such that expression of said sequence is enhanced, and transforming said genomically modified host such that a desired heterologous protein encoding sequence is introduced into said host genome under the control of the same promotor.

## Description
IMPROVED RECOMBINANT HOSTS, THEIR PRODUCTION AND USE The invention relates to the recombinant production of heterologous proteins under regulatable promoter control. More specifically, the invention relates to providing hosts with at least one modification in the genome associated with aporepressor activator production. The presence of the modification permits more effective production of the desired protein. Feedback control systems which regulate the metabolic pathways of both procaryotic and eucaryotic organisms have been known for many years to exist both at the genetic and protein levels.Perhaps the best known examples of genetic level feedback control are regulatable promoterloperator systems. such as the p galactosidase lac promoter operator and the tryptophan trp promoter operator systems in procaryotic hosts. The lac operator responds to a constitutive protein repressor to prevent transcription. In the presence of an inducer such as lactose or OPTS, the repressor is bound to inducer, and unable to bind to the operator, thus transcription is permitted. The trp operator, conversely, responds only to an activated repressor protein i.e., in the absence of tryptophan, the repressor does not bind to operator.Advantage has been taken of these genetic level controls to effect the production of recombinant proteins at times of the host cells life cycle which are advantageous to efficient production. Typically, the coding sequence for a desired heterologous protein is ligated in operable configuration with the regulatable proloter operator in suitable vectors to transform the host. Since immediate production of the heterologous protein during the growth phase of the transformed organism would be injurious to the healthy multiplication of the bacteria, this production is delayed by causing production of sufficient repressor to keep the promoter operator system turned off. In the case of the trp operator, the mediator of the on off switch is the combination of tryptophan with a repressor protein aporepressor produced normally by the host, but at a level dependent on the concentration of tryptophan in the medium. Combination with tryptophan permits the aporepressor to function, and expression of coding sequences under control of the trp promoter is delayed by the presence of tryptophan until further repression is no longer needed.Under usual recombinant host growth conditions, derepression is effected either by depleting the supply of tryptophan in the medium or by supplying an antagonist to tryptophan such as indole acrylic acid IAA , which interferes with the ability of tryptophan to bond to the aporepressor. While, therefore, in principle, the trp promoter system offers a convenient means to delay expression of heterologous gene sequences until a desired point in the growth curve is reached and then permit operation of the promoter, this control is nowt absolute.One difficulty is that complete depletion of the tryptophan is impractical because tryptophan is a component of many proteins, and is required at some level to enable protein synthesis. The result is that the trp promoter is always partially repressed due to this minimal tryptophan level. The mechanisms for regulating tryptophan production have been studied by C. Yanofsky and his colleagues for many years.Studies conducted more than twenty years ago provided a revertant of a tryptophan requiring mutant to partial tryptophan independence. This partial revertant apparently exhibited higher expression levels of the gene sequences under trp promoter control, but exhibited a slower growth rate without tryptophan than does wild type. A study of this mutant, A46PR9, Henning, U., et al., Proc Natl Acad Sci USA 1962 48 1497 1504 , showed that a mutation in the coding sequence for trpA, an enzyme which catalyzes one of the steps in the conversion of indole glycerol phosphate to tryptophan, contains a mutation which results in the substitution of a valine residue for a glycine residue, The result is a protein which is less active in performing this catalysis than the native protein, thus accounting for the slow rate of growth in the absence of tryptophan.On the other hand, higher level amounts of this relatively inactive protein are formed, thus indicating a higher degree of expression for the genomic sequences under control of the trp promoter operator. The importance of this trp operon regulation for enhanced expression is further elucidated in a more recent paper of the same group Kelley, R. L., et al., Proc Natl Acad Sci USA 1982 , 79 3120 3124 . LacZ fusion flags were used to show that the response of a typical procaryotic cell to variations in tryptophan concentrations is regulated mainly by the trp operon, which shows a 70 fold variation over the tryptophan concentration range studied, whereas the trp aporepressor synthesis showed a variation of only 4 5 fold. Since, therefore, the level of production of heterologous proteins under trp control in recombinant hosts depends on the ability of the trp promoter to exhibit a high level of efficiency in promoting transcription, it would be desirable to introduce, In recombinant hosts, alterations which would result in more dramatic derepression.From results with A46PR9 it would appear that the coding sequence for the modified trpA protein results in enhanced expression levels effected by the trp promoter operably linked to its own coding sequence. The effect could be applicable with regard to any .trp promoter in the cell, including a trp promoter in operable linkage with the recombinant heterologous coding sequences. Therefore, hosts having this alteration in the genome may be high producers when transformed with vectors using trp control. Analogous host cell 1 modifications affecting promoters susceptible to similar feedback control mechanisms are also desirable in instances where these promoters can be used to control expression of heterologous proteins. For example, the phenylalanine A pheA promoter operator and tyrosine aroF promoter operator are less frequently used for recombinant expression. However, their sequences and mode of regulation are known, and their use for the production of heterologous proteins Is within the skill of the art. See Hudson, G.S., et al., J Mol Biol 1984 180 1023 1051. Such host cell improvements are the subject of the present invention. The present invention provides recombinant procaryotic hosts with the ability to permit more efficient expression of heterologous coding sequences under the control of regulatable promoters. These hosts may be prepared by altering the genome of the host organism to obtain mutant sequences under control of the same promoter as that used for the expression of the recombinant DNA sequence, which mutant sequences result in increased levels of their own expression.Typically the mutant sequences encode enzymes responsible for the synthesis of an aporepressor activator. The result is that derepression of expression is enhanced. Thus, in one aspect, the invention is directed to a recombinant host cell with diminished ability to synthesize an aporepressor activator. This host cell has an alteration in its genome resulting in enhanced expression under the control of a promoter which can also be used to control recombinant protein production in the same host. Another aspect of the invention is a protein expression system comprising the foregoing host transformed with a vector containing the coding sequence for a desired protein under the control of a promoter operator which is responsive to the same aporepressor aporepressor activator as is the operon which is modified so as to be more effectively derepressed. Brief Description of the Drawings Figure 1 shows a diagram of the process for KB2 production using P1 phage containing cyst , Tn5 and P1 phage containing. trpA46PR9. Figure 2 shows the construction of the expression vector for IL 2, pLW45. Figure 3 shows stained SDS gels run on extracts from pLW45 transformed hosts.Modes of Carrying Out the InventionA. Definitions As used herein, aporepressor activator refers to a substance which combines with an aporepressor protein. The combination is effective in inhibiting expression under the control of a target promoter. In a commonly encountered form of transcription control, the promoter is provided with an operator sequence, which, when bound with a suitable repressor, shuts off the transcription under the subject promoter s control. The repressor may be a protein which is produced under the control of an entirely different promoter elsewhere in the cell s DNA which is, by itself, capable of combining with the operator sequence to shut off the subject gene. This is the situation with respect to the lac m galactosidase promoter operator, which is controlled by a repressor protein produced under the control of a different promoter. However, a number of other control systems require that the aporepressor protein be activated by combination with another substance the aporepressor activator .Typically this substance is the end product of the synthetic sequence whose production is controlled by the subject gene. Familiar examples are the trp promoter, where the aporepressor trpR must be combined with tryptophan in order to repress tyrosine aroF promoter, which controls the synthesis of enzymes in the pathway to tyrosine, which is regulated by an aporepressor tyrR in combination with tyrosine and the analogous operon controlling the production of enzymes required in the synthesis of phenylalanine where the aporepressor also requires combination with the end product to be effective. Thus, aporepressor activator refers to those substances which must be available to combine with the aporepressor protein in order to control the subject regulatable promoter. Repressor refers to a substance effective in this regard it may be an aporepressor protein alone or said protein in combination with the aporepressor activator. Regulatable promoter refers to a promoter whose operation is controlled by the presence or absence of a substance in a cell or cell culture such as a repressor, or by other environmental conditions such as temperature, salt concentration, and so forth. Operably linked refers to juxtaposition wherein the functionality of the operably linked subjects are preserved. Thus, promoter operably linked to a coding sequence may result in expression of the coding sequence under control of the promoter under proper conditions. Cells 1, cell cultures , host cells , recombinant host cells refer to subject cells for recombinant DNA manipulations. As would be apparent from the context, these cells may be candidates for, or resultants of, transfer of new DNA sequences according to recombinant techniques. Techniques which are suitable for DNA uptake by cells include, most prominently, in vitro transformation however, other techniques such as transduction or conjugation may also be used. The definition further includes the progeny of the cells directly referred to.It is understood that such progeny may not be precisely identical in DNA content to their parents, but such progeny are included in the definition so long as alterations due, for example, to accidental or deliberate mutation do not destroy the ability of the cells to exhibit the properties conferred by the DNA introduced in a manner similar to that exhibited by their parents.B. General Description Any mutant host, produced by whatever means, having a genomic modification which results in increased expression as compared to wild type of sequences under control of a regulatable promoter when the promoter is derepressed is a candidate host for the expression systems of the invention. For example, in the illustration below, E. coli trp A46PR9 could, itself, be used as a host. If the organism has, however, other characteristics which make it less desirable as a recombinant host, it may nevertheless be used as a donor system for the genomic modification as is the case for E. coli trp A46PR9 in the illustration below.For example, a standard recombinant production strain of E. coli can be modified to contain mutations in its genome which increase the level of expression for an aporepressor activator operon by first selecting these suitable mutants of a donor strain, and then using a standard phage transduction technique to introduce the desired mutation. In the alternative, the production strain may be subjected to mutation pressure through irradiation or chemical treatment, and desirable mutants selected. The host, whose genomic sequences have been altered in the aporepressor activator operon, may then be used to produce recombinant proteins by introducing a vector which contains an expression system for the desired recombinant protein under the control of the same regulatable promoter as that controlling the aporepressor activator operon. While E. coli hosts are exemplified below, and are clearly the most convenient for routine production, other forms of procaryotic hosts are clearly not excluded from the invention. Therefore, strains of bacillus, for example, Bacillus subtilis or of Pseudomonas, might also be used as subjects for constructing the host organisms useful in the invention. Similarly, while the trp promoter operator and trp operon are exemplified, any operon system which is controlled analogously could be used. Thus, for example, the operons controlling production of tyrosine or phenylalanine may also be used. In general, in a convenient method to prepare the host, the desired substrate host is first infected with general transducing phage stock obtained from lysis of an infected corresponding bacterium containing a marker mutation which maps on the genome proximal to the locus of the desired change. The successfully transduced hosts, now containing the marker, are than transduced with a general transducing phage stock which has been obtained by lysis of cells which contain the desired mutation. The disappearance of the marker can then be used to select for transductants with a high probability of integration of genomic sequences containing the desired mutation. The resulting desired transductants are then suitable as. hosts for the recombinant sequences containing the corresponding regulatable promoters.C. Examples The following example is intended to illustrate, but not to limit, the invention. The example uses an alteration of the trp dperon which Is transduced into a convenient E. coli recombinant host strain by the aforementioned phage transduction techniques. The construction of the host KB2 is shown in Figure 1. E. coli strain W3110 cyst , Tn5 is used as a donor strain for the marker sequences. The cysB locus is at approximately 28.0 on the E. coli genome, which is proximally adjacent to the trp operon locus at 27.7 . The Tn5 transposon in the donor strain is proximal to the cysB also, and the presence of Tn5 results in resistance to the antibiotics kanamycin, neomycin, and other aminoglycosides. The presence of the closely linked Tn5 permits selection of transductants using resistance to these antibiotics. Accordingly, E. coil W3110 cyst , Tn5 is infected with the standard transducing phage P1 and the resulting lysates used to transduce the recombinant production strain E. coli K12 MM294 1. The transduction is performed essentially as described by Lennox, E. S.,Virology 1955 1 190, as modified by Yanofsky, et al., Virology 1959 8 425, and Maling, R. D., et al., Proc Natl Acad Sci Wash 1964 47 551. The transduced cells were then plated on media containing 30 Fg ml kanamycin to select for KanR. Successful colonies were screened for cyst , i.e., a growth requirement for cysteine, and approximately 20S of the kanamycin resistant KanR colonies showed this characteristic. One such colony, designated KB1, was selected as the substrate host. E. coli KB1 was then transduced using lysates of P1 infectedE. ccli trpA46PR9, obtained from Professor Yanofsky at Stanford University, a strain generally available upon request. This donor strain is wild type with respect to cysB. The transductant cultures obtained from KB1 using these lysates were then selected for cysB bye growth in medium lacking cysteine. The selected cultures were screened for kanamycin sensitivity, and approximately 50 of the transductants were kanamycin sensitive. Finally, the kanamycin sensitive colonies were screened for the presence of the desired mutation by assessing the level of anthranilate synthase trpE gene product another enzyme besides tryptophan synthetase trpA gene product produced by the trp operon in colonies grown on glucoseminimal media.Eleven percent of the kanamycin sensitive colonies showed high levels of this enzyme, and accordingly were apparently more efficient than wild type in producing the protein products of the trp operon. The resulting successful strain, designated E. coliMM294 A46PR9 KB2, was deposited with ATCC on March 29, 1985 under the provisions of the Budapest Treaty and given accession number 53,075. E. coli KB2 was transformed using the standard transformation technique for procaryotes of Cohen, S.N. et al., ProcNatl Acad Sci 1972 69 2110 with pLW45. pLW45, shown in Figure 2, mutein having the cysteine residue at position 125 replaced by a serine. The 1L2 coding sequences in pLW45 are under the control of the trp promoter, and the vector confers tetracycline resistance. The pLW45 plasmid may be prepared from two analogous plasmids described in U.5. Patent No. 4,518,584, granted May 21, 1984, assigned to the same assignee and incorporated herein by reference. These plasmids, pLW55 and pLW46, have been deposited with the ATCC and have accession nos.39,516 and 39,452, respectively, and are now available to the public under the provisions of the Budapest Treaty. pLW45 is identical to pLW55, except that the N terminal sequence of the pLW45 IL 2 lacks an alanine codon of the native sequence. pLW45 contains the desired N terminal sequence in the same operable linkage with the trp promoter as is found in pLW55.Accordingly, pLW45 is constructed by excising an EcoRI XbaI fragment from pLW46 the fragment containing the trp promoter and the Nterminal portion of IL 2 and inserting this fragment into EcoRI Xbal digested pLW55. The transformed hosts were grown in a fermenter containing the following medium NH4 2S04 150 m KH2P04 21.6 mM Na3 Citrate 1.5 tt4 ZnSO4 . 7H20 60 M MnS04 H20 60 M CuS04 5H20 2 uM pH adjusted to 6.50 with 2.5 N NaOH autoclaved. Sterile Additions post autoclave MgSO4 . 7H20 3 mM FeSO4 . 7H20 100 pM L tryptophan 70 mg l Thiarine HCl 20 mg l Glucose 5 g l Tetracycline 5 mg l Polypropylene glycol anti foam, glucose, 50 solution, and KOH, 5 N, were added on demand. The pH of the fermenter was maintained at 6.8 with 5 N KOH. Residual glucose was matntained between 5 10 g l, dissolved oxygen at 40X, and temperature at 370C. Harvest was made four hours after the OD680 reached about 10. Previous results indicate that tryptophan is depleted and Induction occurs at approximately OD680 10. In other fermenter runs, casamino acids were added to 2 at approximately Or680 10, at the start of induction. Under these conditions, the MM294 1 controls produced IL 2 mutein at somewhat higher level 85 9X than those indicated below. This additional step was not necessary or helpful in fermentation using Mtl294 A46PR9. Samples of the fermenter culture were removed periodically during the fermentation. Samples were prepared for SDS PAGE by boiling in SDS, and then applied to gels. The developed gels from the resulting crude extracts were stained with Coomassie blue and scanned with a densitometer.Estimation was thereby nade of the quantity ofIL 2 mutein produced both in control cultures using MM294 1 as host and pLW45 as transforming plasmid and in the extracts from pLW45 transformed hosts of the invention. While the induced control organisms produced 3 55 of total cell protein as iL 2 mutein, the induced transformed cells of the invention produced IL 2 mutein at a level of 18Z 20 of total cell protein. These results are shown in Figure 3. Lane 1 shows proteins from MM294 1 transformed with pLW45 extracted prior to induction lane 2 shows proteins from these cells after induction lane 3 shows proteins extracted from induced pLW45 transformed E. coli MM294 A46PR9 KB2 . The recombinant host system of the present invention may be used in the expression of a wide variety of heterologous proteins or polypeptides. In this connection, the recombinant host system may be used to express proteins or polypeptides such as interferons alpha, beta, or gamma , lymphokines interleukins 1, 2 or 3, colony stimulating factors G, GM or 1, tumor necrosis factor lymphotoxins, leukoregulin, hormones e.g., insulin , vaccines, enzymes, growth factors, and muteins of these proteins and polypeptides. The deposits above were made pursuant to a contract between the ATCC and the assignee of this patent application, CetusCorporation. The contract with ATCC provides for permanent availability of the progeny of this cell line to the public on the issuance of the U.S. patent describing and identifying the deposit or the publications or upon the laying open to the public of any U.S. or foreign patent application, whichever comes fIrst, and for availability of the progeny of this cell line to one determined by theU.S. Commissioner of Patents and Trademarks to be entitled thereto according to 35 USC 6122 and the Commissioner s rules pursuant thereto including 37 CFR µ1.14 with particular reference to 886 or 638 . The assignee of the present application has agreed that if the cell line on deposit should die or be lost or destroyed when cultivated under suitable conditions, it will be promptly replaced on notification with a viable culture of the same cell line. While a preferred embodiment of the invention has been described herein, it can be appreciated that various changes and modifications can be made without departing from the spirit of the invention.