# PURIFYING GROWTH HORMONE LIKE MATERIALS

## Claims
Verfahren zum Abtrennen von Verunreinigungen aus einer unreinen Mischung, die wachstumshormonartiges Material enthält, umfassend, daß man

## Description
Proteins are biopolymers which are dependent upon structural stability to perform their specified function. Because a small change in solvent composition, pH, temperature, and salt concentration often can exert a significant and occasionally irreversible change in protein conformation, chromatographic protein purification ideally has been performed using resins exhibiting minimal non specific, denaturing interactions. Classically, such resins have been extremely hydrophilic, having a water content often exceeding 80 . As a result of their hydrophilic nature, the resultant chromatographic resin particles are most susceptible to collapse, even under modest back pressure. In addition, any non specific adsorption can be difficult to displace due to an inability to wash effectively these hydrophilic resins with organic solvents. Consequently, one is confronted with a problem in the initial step of preparative purification of proteins from heterogeneous natural sources. The more desirable supports, due to their hydrophilic nature, are inappropriate for rapid throughput of viscous, sludge laden, natural product mixtures. As a result, it has been necessary to use, at considerable additional expense, non chromatographic methods for initial purification. Amberlite XAD resins are polymeric macro reticular adsorbents, commercially produced by the Rohm and Haas Company. These resins have been designed for the separation of compounds based upon varied affinities for a polymeric hydrophobic surface. Since XAD type resins 1 have a large particle size 20 50 mesh and 2 are extremely hydrophobic, any practical utilization of such resins in the chromatography of complex biological mixtures of structurally similar peptides and proteins would be surprising. Indeed, no report exists which details the operational parameters of these supports in protein purification. However, the foregoing two properties of the XAD type resins surprisingly make them exceptionally effective for the initial purification stages of highly impure sludge laden mixtures containing both structurally diverse and structurally similar proteins. One would correctly expect that the large and heterogeneous particle sizes of XAD type resins would diminish substantially their chromatographic performance due to the slow and unequal dynamics of interaction. Consequently, one would avoid the use of such resins in protein and polypeptide purification. This seeming deficiency, however, unexpectedly has been discovered to be advantageous for purification purposes when applied under precisely defined conditions to highly impure, sludge laden materials containing growth hormone like material. Moreover, of added practical significance in the purification of such growth hormone like material is that XAD type resins 1 are readily available at moderate cost, 2 are completely stable throughout the pH range of 1 13, and 3 are amenable to in column regeneration with aqueous detergents and organic solvents. The literature does not address, except in a most general manner, the use of XAD type resins in the purification of proteins and polypeptides. Pietrzyk, D. J. and Stodola, J. D., The difficulties of the purification of proteins from highly impure sources have been especially evident with the advent of recombinant DNA technology and its use in the commercial production of peptides and proteins. Any commercially feasible expression of product by recombinant DNA methodology also requires the isolation of the recombinant DNA sourced product from impurities contained in the originating fermentation broths as well as in the mixtures resulting from subsequent chemical and or other treatments. The necessity for new commercial scale protein purification techniques thus has become of crucial concern. An even more complicating factor in the purification of recombinant DNA sourced proteins arises from the presence in many such proteins of cysteinyl residues. In many cases, following recombinant expression of cysteine containing proteins, the cysteinyl sulfhydryls are reversibly protected, generally by conversion to S sulfonates, prior to commencing any protein purification. This conversion and or other treatments necessarily lead to the production of additional amounts of undesirable sludge like impurities, in the presence of highly viscous denaturing agents, from which the desired protein first must be separated. To make processes of this nature commercially feasible requires one to discover methods that will permit removal of sludge, salt, organic solvents, and other contaminants from the desired product whether such product is the final product or an intermediate along the way with little or no loss of such product. A highly advantageous process has been discovered for enhancing the purity of growth hormone like material from highly impure stocks thereof obtained via recombinant DNA methods. The process involves subjecting the impure stock to reverse phase purification on a macroporous acrylate ester copolymer resin support. In accordance with the invention there is provided a process for separating impurities from an impure mixture containing growth hormone like material, with substantially complete recovery of said growth hormone like material, which comprises As noted, the process of this invention is directed to the purification of highly impure mixtures containing growth hormone like material. The term growth hormone like material means 1 growth hormone itself of whatever species, for example, human, bovine, or porcine 2 precursors to growth hormone, such as reduced SH growth hormone and S protected growth hormone, for example, growth hormone S sulfonate 3 variants of growth hormone or its precursors, for example, structures which have been modified to lengthen and or shorten the growth hormone amino acid sequence, for example, the 20K variant of human growth hormone, methionyl human growth hormone, and the like and 4 analogs of growth hormone or its precursors, for example, structures in which the growth hormone amino acid sequence has been modified by replacement of one or more amino acid residues. The process of this invention involves the use of a macroporous acrylate ester copolymer resin as chromatographic support. Such copolymer resin absorbents are well known to those skilled in the art. Two such supports, highly suited for the purposes of this invention, are available from the Rohm and Haas Company and carry the designation XAD 7 and XAD 8. Of the two, XAD 8 is particularly preferred for the purposes of this invention. The process of this invention can be divided into three chromatographic steps or stages. Only two of these, however, are required. Thus, the process must include a loading and a desorption step, and it may include, and preferably does, an intermediate washing step. Moreover, the process may be carried out in either batch or column mode, although, for the sake of efficiency of purification, it is much preferred to conduct the process under column conditions. Whether the process of this invention is carried out using the batch or column mode, the particular conditions which are fundamental to its success and which form the basis of the present invention remain constant. The complex mixture containing growth hormone like material used in the loading step of this invention generally is obtained as a result of expression by recombinant DNA methodology and may include one or more intervening conversion and or treatment steps. Customarily, a product is expressed containing an amino acid sequence, at least part of which corresponds to that of growth hormone or a variant or analog thereof. The expression product, if only a portion of it represents growth hormone like material, normally will be designed to contain a selective cleavage site to permit growth hormone like material to be generated chemically or enzymatically from the longer chain expression product. The resulting impure mixture, as a result of fermentation and cleavage, will contain a wide range of peptides along with an accompanying complex mixture of sludge and other materials and, relatively speaking, only minor amounts of growth hormone like material. The mixture may be treated under recognized conditions in the presence of large amounts of urea generally about 7 When loading the material of the kind described, the pH of the sludge laden, urea containing mixture is adjusted to a range of from about 7 to about 9, preferably, from about 8 to about 9, and, most preferably, about 8.5, and the resulting solution is brought into contact with the macroporous acrylate ester copolymer resin. Upon completion of the loading stage, and especially when in the column mode, the resin preferably is washed with an aqueous buffer containing about 10 to about 15 acetone and or acetonitrile and having a pH of from about 7 to about 9, and, preferably, about 8.5. Any of a wide range of buffering agents can be used, including, for example, Tris, ethylenediamine, and the like. A buffering agent of choice is Tris. The aforementioned aqueous buffer wash may be and preferably is preceded by a urea wash, typically using 7 Upon completion of loading of the resin, or washing, if such step is included, the growth hormone like material is substantially and completely eluted from the resin free of sludge and of substantially increased purity and concentration. Substantially complete recovery means recovery from about 30 to about 100 of the growth hormone like material present in the starting impure mixture. The mandatory conditions for practical elution of the adsorbed growth hormone like material are the prescribed pH range and eluant composition. The pH must be in the range of from about 7 to about 9, and, preferably, from about 8 to about 9. The aqueous eluant must contain, on a volume basis, from about 20 to about 80 of acetone, acetonitrile, or a combination of the two. Preferably, the amount of acetone or acetonitrile present in the eluant will be from about 40 to about 50 if elution is carried out isocratically or over a range of from about 20 to about 50 if gradient elution is employed. The entire process of this invention can be carried out over a wide range of temperatures, for example, anywhere from about 4 C to about 30 C. Preferably, however, the process is conducted at a temperature in the range of from about 4 C to about 8 C. The aqueous organic solution obtained as eluate from the process of this invention contains growth hormone like material free of contaminating sludge, urea, and salt, and of substantially greater purity then the original mixture applied to the macroporous acrylate ester copolymer resin. The resulting growth hormone like material can be recovered from the eluate by routine techniques, or the solution itself can be used in further processing of the material. One highly useful and wholly unexpected method for separating protein impurities from growth hormone like materials in the eluate involves the selective precipitation of such impurities. It has been found that certain protein impurities can be selectively precipitated from eluates containing growth hormone like material and from about 20 to about 40 acetonitrile by lowering the pH of the eluate to the range from about 5.0 to about 6.5, and, preferably, from about 5.2 to about 5.6. The precipitated impurities are removed by either centrifugation or filtration. Approximately half of the total protein in the eluate is found in the precipitate. Of this, only about 5 of growth hormone like material is present. Thus, the specific activity of the growth hormone like material in the supernatant fraction following removal of the precipitate is increased by about two fold. The following non limiting examples are provided to further illustrate the invention. A one liter 5 x 52 cm column of XAD 8 was packed and equilibrated with 7 The methionyl growth hormone was eluted from the column with 40 acetonitrile by volume in 50m A moist cell paste was obtained by centrifugation of The extract was made 10 v v with acetonitrile and pumped over a one liter column of XAD 8 5 x 50 cm equilibrated with 10 acetonitrile in 50m The column was eluted using a linear gradient containing from 20 to 80 acetonitrile in 50m Glacial acetic acid 0.2 ml was added slowly with stirring to 50 ml XAD 8 eluate containing methionyl human growth hormone. The eluate contained about 30 acetonitrile. A flocculent white precipitate formed, and the suspension was allowed to stand at 5 C for about 1.5 hours. The precipitate was removed by centrifugation and dissolved in 10 ml of distilled water by adjusting the pH to 8.0 with ammonium hydroxide. The solution of the precipitate and the supernatant fraction were assayed, and the results are provided in the Table following. Balances are not 100 because of handling losses and errors inherent in the assays.