# Polyester composition.

## Abstract
A polyester composition which comprises a polyester, a a thermoplastic elastomer and b a carbodiimide com pound having at least one carbodiimide group and is improved in an impact resistance at a low temperature and stability to heat, hot water and steam, being useful as parts to expose to the low temperature.

## Claims
EMI17.1 The embodiments of the invention in which an exclusive property or privilege is claimed are defined as follows 1 A polyester composition which comprises a polyester, a a thermoplastic elastomer and b a carbodiimide compound having at least one carbodiimide group. 2 A composition as claimed in Claim 1, which comprises 1 to 50 percent by weight, based on the polyester, of said thermoplastic elastomer and 0.1 to 10 percent by weight, based on the polyester, of said carbodiimide compound. 3 A composition as claimed in Claim 1, in which said carbodiimide compound is a polymer having carbodiimide groups. 4 A composition as claimed in Claim 1, in which said polyester is poly tetramethylene terephthalate. 5 A composition as claimed in Claim 1, in which the additives a and b have an average particle size of 5 microns or smaller. 6 A composition as claimed in Claim 1, in which said thermoplastic elastoner is a copolymer of butadiene, styrene and methyl methacrylate and said carbodiimide compound is a polycarbodiimide.

## Description
Polyester Composition The present invention relates to thermoplastic polyester resin compositions having good low tam perature impact characteristics, improved thermal stability, and improved resistance to hot water and water vapor and more particularly the invention relates to polyalkylene terephthalate resin compositions. The resin composition of the present invention is suitable for use in molding onto exterior parts, engine room parts, electrical equipment parts, and electronic parts, for example, and also in molding.parts used in construction and other fields of activity, more particularly parts which are likely to be exposed to a low temperature atmosphere.Statement of Prior Arts Thermoplastic polyester resins, such as for example polyalkylene terephthalate resins, are widely used as engineering plastics in various industrial fields, being recognized as having excellent mechanical and physical properties. Indeed, a large number of resin compositions have hitherto been provided which are claimed as having improved properties to meet various characteristic requirements placed on such resins in the individual industrial fields. While thermoplastic polyester resin composed tions have some degree of impact characteristic and thermal stability, however, there may arise a problem in respect of impact strength, if a part molded of such composition has high notch sensitivity and noticeably sharp rib or ribs. In such case, a conventional approach is to add a thermoplastic elastomer in order to reduce the notch sensitivity. Among varieties of such elastomer conventionally used are thermoplastic rubbers, e.g., a graft copolymer such that various vinyl compounds are grafted by using butadiene rubber as a rubber component, and a polyacrylate resin wherein a modifier composed of such resin is a polystage polymer having a rubber like first stage and 2 thermoplastic rigid final stage, polyolefins modified by block or graft copolymerization, and or ethylene propylene rubber. However, addition of such thermoplastic elastomer may considerably improve the impact resistance in a room temperature atmosphere, but will result in consider able decrease in the impact strength in such lowtemperature atmosphere as 400C. In such case, an elastomer having good low temperature characteristics is added in a large quantity however, this will cause considerable deterioration in rigidity and other mechanical characteristics, with the result that the composition no longer deserves the name of engineering plastic. Another difficulty with the prior art compositions improved in such way concerns thermal stability. That is, during its short time detention in molten. state in a molding machine, such composition will suffer from deterioration in its physical properties because thermal decomposition will occur with the thermoplastic polyester resin itself and also with the thermoplastic elastomer, furthermore, by the action of the ers plastic elastomer added, recohesion takes place under the molten condition, with the result of considerable decrease in impact resistance. As a counter measure in such case, normal practice is to polymeric plasticiz the thermoplastic polyester resin to be used, such as polyalkylene terephthalate resin, and or to use a stabilizer such practice will have some measure of effect for retention of the static strength characteristics, e.g., tensile strengh, but have almost no effect for retention of the dynamic strength characteristics, with which the present invention is concerned, such as impact resistance, for example. The present inventors endeavored to seek a solution to aforesaid problems from the standpoint of modifying the interface between the thermoplastic resin component, such as polyalkylene terephthalate resin, and the thermoplastic elastomer component in a thermoplastic polyester composition, and also of inhibiting possible molecular weight loss due to thermal decomposition in the thermoplastic polyester resin, and as Åa result they arrived at this invention.Summary of the Invention Accordingly the present invention provides a thermoplastic polyester resin composition comprising a thermoplastic polyester resin, such as polyalkylene terephthalate, and the following added thereto A a thermoplastic elastomer s and B a carbodiimide compound s having at least one carbodiimide group in a molecule the low temperature impact characteris tics and molten state thermal stability of the thermoplastic polyester resin have thus been greatly improved. Thermoplastic polyester resins useful for the purpose of the invention are aromatic polyesters, each composed principally of aromatic dicarbodylic acid and diol, or composed of oxycarboxylic acid.Examples of aromatic dicarboxylic acid are bifunctional carboxylic acids, such as terephthalic acid, isophthalic acid, 2 methyl terephthalic acid, 4methyl terephthalic acid, naphthalene dicarboxylic acid, and diphenyl dicarboxylic acid one or more kinds of them may be used. More particularly, terephthalic acid is preferred. Examples of diols are aliphatic glycols, such as ethylene glycol, propylene glycol, trimethylene glycol, tetramethylene glycol, and neopentyl glycol one or more kinds of these may be used. More particularly, ethylene glycol and tetramethylene glycol are preferred. Also aromatic dihydroxy compounds, such as 2,2 bis 4 hydroxyphenyl propane, may be used. Examples of oxycarboxylic acids are oxybenzoic acid and oxynaphthoic acid. Particular preferred thermoplastic polyester resins are polyalkylene terephthalate resins, such as polyethylene terephthalate, polytetramethylene terephthalate, and copolymers or mixtures of these as is well known, these polyester resins are obtain able through polycondensation of terephthalic acid or lower alkyl ester thereof and alkylene diol.For example, polyethylene terephthalate or polybutylene terephthalate is produced by polycondensating dimethyl terephthalate and ethylene glycol or 1,4 butane diol after ester interchange reaction. In addition, a thermoplastic full aromatic polyester resin composed of one or more kinds of aromatic hydroxy carboxylic acid, and its copolymers or mixtures with any of aforesaid thermoplastic polyester resins. For thermoplastic elastomer as component A in this invention, all such elastomers generally used may be used without any particular limitation, and thev are broadly classified into two categories that is, thernoplastic rubbers and thermoplastic elastomers in a narrow sense. The thermoplastic rubbers include, for example, copolymers of the kind in which the rubber component is a copolymer of dien based compounds, such as butadiene and isoprene, with which component various vinyl compounds are copolymerized. Among such vinyl compounds are styrene, acrylonitrile, ester acrylate, and ester methacrylate for example, so called MBS resin, wherein butadiene rubber is copolymerized with styrene and ester methacrylate may be advantageously used as such. It is particularly noted that the higher the proportion of the butadiene component in the copolymer, the better are the low temperature properties. It is also possible to use any polyacrylate resin wherein a modifier composed of such resin is a polystage polymer having a rubber like first stage and a thermoplastic rigid final stage, or any polyolefin based thermoplastic rubber. Typical of the latter ethylene and propylene based copolymers, or modified products thereof. Among the thermoplastic elastomers in a narrow sense are modified polyolefin copolymer elastomers, thermoplastic polyester elastomers, polyamide based elastomers, and thermoplastic urethanes. The polyolefin based elastomers include ethylene vinyl acetate copolymer, ethylene ethyl acrylate copolymer, and o olefin maleic anhydride copolymer. Among the thermoplastic polyester elastomers, caprolactones and segment type copolyesters consisting of repeated long chain and short chain ester units are preferred.Typical of the polyamide based elastomers are such elastomers as may be produced through modification of nylon 12. Typical of the thermoplastic urethanes as polyester polyol type polyprethanes. One or more kinds of these elastomers may be added to the thermoplastic polyester resin. A suitable range of addition is 1 50 by weight.If the addition is below this range, any improvement in impact resistance can hardly be obtained. If the addition is above this range, it may bring undesirable effect on such other properties as strength and rigidity, for example. A preferred range of addition is 5 30 wt . Available for use as B component according to the invention, hit is, cÅarbodiimide compound, are compounds having one or more carbodiimide groups in a molecule more particularly, high molecularweight type compounds linked by carbodiimide groups are preferred. Among monomer type compounds available for use are alkyl substituted carbodiimide, such as dicyclohexyl carbodiimide, and allyl substituted carbodiimide, such as diphenyl carbodiimide and for the high molecular weight type, any polycarbodiimide derived from monomers having two or more isocyanate groups may be used. For example, the following may be mentioned as such poly hexamethylene dicarbodiimide , poly cyclohexylene dicarbodiimide , poly tolylcarbodiimide , poly 3,3 dimethyl 4,4 biphenyl methane carbodiimide , poly p phenylene carbodiimide , poly m phenylene carbodiimide , poly 3,3 dimethyl 4,4 1 diphenylmethane carbodiimide , and mixtures of these. Preferred polycarbodiimides are poly tolylcarbodiimide , poly 4,4 dipheylmethane carbodiimide , and mixtures of these. One or more kinds of such carbodiimide compounds may be added to the thermoplastic polyester resin. There is no particular limitation on the degree of polymerization, and all types of such compounds, from oligomer type to high polymer type, may be equally used. A preferred addition range for carbodiimide compounds is 0.1 10 wt . If the addition is below this range, no sufficient effect can be expected for modification of the interface between the elastomer and the polyester resin such as polyalkylene terephthalate, or for inhibition of the deterioration due to heat of the polyalkylene terephthalate or the like. If the addition is excessive, a tridimensional change of the resin is accelerated and the fluidity thereof is reduced. More preferably, the addition should be 0.5 5 wt . The components A and B1 used for the composition of the invention is preferably of such microfine particle size as 5 p or finer from the view point of dispersibility into the polymer. Effect If the component A for the composition of the invention is added alone, it may serve for improvement in impact resistance at room temperature and in heat resistance, and also for tensile strength retention, but there may be only a slight improvement in impact resistance at such low ten e zture as 40 C. If the component B only is added, it may serve for tensile strength retention under such conditions as short time detention in the molding machine, but no perceivable effect can be obtain ed in respect of impact resistance. However, by using the components A and B in combination in accordance with the present invention, surprisingly remarkable effect can be obtained a notched.Izod impact.strength at 40 C which is almost equal to that at room temperature, and no decrease whatever in impact resistance even if the composition is retained in molten state in the molding machine for a long time, e.g., 30 min. Such synergistic effect cannot be anticipated by the prior art. A particularly preferred example of the composition is one wherein the component A is a copolymer containing a polymer of dien based compounds as its rubber component and various vinyl compounds copolymerized therewith, and wherein the component B is polycarbodiimide. In order to impart to the composition of the invention further desired characteristics according to the purpose for which it is used, it is possible to incorporate thereinto one or more kinds of known additives, such as lubricant, nucleatingagent, parting agent, antistatic agent, other surface active agent, plasticizer, flame retardant, flame retarding assistant, pigment, dye, heat stabilizer, and ultraviolet stabilizer. In order to give still further desired characteristics to the composition of the invention, it is also possible to mix or copolymerize therewith one or more kinds of organic polymer materials. Examples of such polymer materials are polycarbonate, low molecular weight polyethylene, polypropylen,e polyurethane, and fluoroplastic. Further, it is possible to add, to the extent not much detrimental to the effect of the invention, one or more kinds of other known reinforcing fillers including inorganic fibers, such as alass iber, carbon fiber, graphite fiber, metallic fiber, silicon carbide fiber, asbestos, wollastonite, and fibrous potassium titanate fibrous reinforcing fliers, such as whisker and various organic fibers laellar reinforcing fillers, such as lamellar glass glass flake , talc, and metallic foil and particulate additives, such as calcium carbonate, quartz powder, silica, magnesium carbonate, calcium sulfate, clay, diatomaceous earth, alumina, silica sand, glass power, graphite, and glass bead The composition of the invention may be easily prepared according to any known method employed generally in preparing the conventional type of resin composition.For example1 one method is such that the individual components are mixed, themixture is then kneaded and extruded into pellets by employing an extruder, and subsequently, the pellets are molded into shape another method is that pellets of different compositions are first prepared, and the pellets are mixed In specified proportions, the mixture being then molded into shape, so that a part of the desired composition is obtained after molding and a further method is that one or more of the components are charged directly into the molding machine. Examples and Comparative Examples The invention will now be further explained with reference to the following examples and comparative examples it is to be understood, however, that the invention is not limited by these examples Examples 1 7 Comparative Examples 1 4 To a polybutylene terephthalate having an inherent viscosity of 1.0 were added a butediene styrene methyl methacrylate copolymer or a thermoplastic segment type copolyester duPont, Hytrel 4056 as component A thermoplastic elastomer, and poly 4,4 diphenylmethane carbodiimide as component B polycarbodiimide, in such proportions as shown in Table 1, and a pellet form composition was prepared from the mixture by employing 2 double screw extruder. Then, fron the pellet an ASTM impact test piece 1 8 inch thick was molded by an injection molding machine set at a cylinder temperature of 2500C. Test pieces molded according to conventional molding cycle injection time 20 sec cooling time 10 sec were identified as test pieces with detention of 0 min in the molding machine. Test pieces were again molded after being retained in the molding machine for 30 min. Comparison was made in respect of heat stability. Low temperature impact strength tests were made at ordinary temperature 230C x 65 RH and in accordance with ASTM D 638 Method after the test pieces are allowed to stand for 20 min in an atomsphere of 40oC. Evaluation for modulus in flexure was made in accordance with ASTM D 790 Method after the test pieces were allowed to stand at 230C and 65 RH for 24 hours. The evaluation results are shown in Table 1. For the purpose of comparison, test pieces in which either A or B was omitted and those in which the both components were omitted were evaluated in same manner as in Examples, and the evaluation results are also shown in Table 1 under comparative example columns. Table 1 EMI15.1 tb SEP oor tb SEP rs SEP N SEP X SEP b SEP N SEP Ï tb Corn SEP ositton SEP Pro SEP ort SEP Test SEP mathod SEP o SEP 2 SEP 5 SEP 6 SEP 7 tb E SEP O SEP Z SEP tb SEP 1 SEP wt SEP Z SEP 78 SEP 95 SEP 88 SEP 72 SEP Ï SEP SEP 78 tb a SEP l SEP vo tb ,0 SEP o tb SEP SEP SEP o SEP o SEP SEP r SEP o SEP o tb 0 tb Q SEP 2 SEP II SEP S SEP 20 SEP 5 tb SEP SEP 8 SEP . SEP g tb SEP o tb SEP SEP tb SEP fletention SEP Test SEP 8 SEP O tb SEP we SEP in SEP ccndt tb SEP tb SEP rl tb 0 tb SEP o SEP 22.1 SEP 18.0 SEP 9.6 SEP 25.2 SEP 29,0 SEP 27.1 SEP 1.5 SEP es SEP o SEP o tb SEP ru SEP tin SEP mse SEP o tb SEP o tb SEP I SEP 9r SEP k c.2 tb SEP 0 SEP n SEP f SEP e SEP f SEP o SEP O SEP tb a SEP 1S7 SEP H SEP ONs SEP c tb aw SEP SEP o SEP o SEP e SEP F tb SEP Y tb SEP SEP o SEP c SEP O tb SEP X SEP O SEP SEP e SEP o SEP o tb SEP N SEP Q SEP SEP oFir SEP g tb SEP s tb SEP SEP commat tb SEP SEP e SEP o SEP SEP eW SEP o tb SEP r SEP e SEP e SEP tb SEP e SEP SEP E SEP o tb SEP ú SEP H SEP SEP o SEP u SEP verbar SEP N tb SEP a SEP u SEP SEP SEP SEP c SEP g SEP o SEP E tb SEP SEP r SEP Cl SEP u SEP u SEP u tb SEP SEP a SEP o SEP E SEP c SEP o SEP .n SEP o SEP o tb SEP eS SEP xS SEP a SEP 4 SEP o. SEP verbar SEP tb SEP C SEP D SEP S SEP E SEP SEP S SEP a SEP e SEP s SEP SEP n SEP n tb SEP u SEP W SEP SEP a SEP SEP O SEP W SEP SEP µ SEP g SEP 3 SEP tb SEP o SEP o SEP HZ SEP cF SEP o SEP o SEP tb SEP f tb SEP u SEP uozssod30 SEP SEP doza tb 1 Butadiene styrene methyl methacrylate copolymer 2 Thermoplastic segment type copolyester Advantages ot the Invention According to the invention, 2 thermoplastic polyester compound is provided which has high impact resistance in a low temperature atmosphere and good stability in molten state, a factor critical particularly in the case of large sized part molding. The thermoplastic polyester resin composition, more particularly polyalkylene terephthalate resin composition, according to the invention exhibits good performance in those fields in which high impact resistance is required under severer conditions, such as auto exterior parts, electrical equip ment parts, and electronic parts, and also in construction fields, more particularly those areas in which therm21 stability at the time or large part molding is recuired, such areas having not been considered as markets for polyalkylene terephthalate resins. In these areas, metals have hitherto been used, and considerable restrictive conditions have necessarily been impose for the use of plastics. However, by using the composition of the invention, such problems can be overcome, and therefore, the economical advantage of the present invention is exceedingly great.