# Levorotatory and dextrorotatory enantiomers of 3 methoxycyproheptadine and analogs thereof, process for their preparation and antipsychotic pharmaceutical compositions.

## Abstract
The levorotatory enantiomers of 3 methoxy cyproheptadine of the formula

## Claims
WHAT IS CLAIMED IS 1. A levorotatory or dextrorotatory enantiomer of l cyclopropylmethyl 4 3 methoxy 5H dibenzo a,dlcyclohepten 5 ylidene piperidine or pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof. 2. The levorotatory enantiomer of the compound of Claim 1 or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof. 3. The dextrorotatory enantiomer of the compound of Claim 1. 4. An antipsychotic composition in unit dosage form comprising a pharmaceutical carrier and an effective antipsychotic amount of a racemic or levorotatory compound of formula EMI9.1 or pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, whereinR1 is methyl or cyclopropylmethyl. 5. The pharmaceutical composition ofClaim 4, wherein the racemic or levorotatory compound is l methyl 4 3 methoxy 5H dibenzo a,d cyclohepten 5 ylidene piperidine or pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof. 6. The pharmaceutical composition ofClaim 4, wherein the racemic or levorotatory compound is l cyclopropylmethyl 4 3 methoxy SH dibenzo a,d cyclohepten 5 ylidene piperidine or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof. i. A process for the preparation of the levorotatory and dextrorotatory enantiomers of l cyclopropylmethyl 4 3 methoxy SH dibenzo a,d cyclohepten 5 ylidene piperidine I , characterized in that the compound l cyclopropylmethyl 4 3 methoxy 5 hydroxy SH dibenzo a,dlcyclohepten 5 yl piperidine is dehydrated to form the racemate of Compound I followed by resolution thereof. 8. The process of Claim 7 for the preparation of the levorotatory enantiomer of 1 cyclopropylmethyl 4 3 methoxy SH dibenzo a,d cyclohepten 5 ylidene piperidine.

## Description
LEVOROTATORY AND DEXTROROTATORY ENANTIOMERS OF 3 THOXYCYPROHEPTADINE AND ANALOGS THEREOF,PROCESS FOR THEIR PREPARATION AND ANTIPSYCHOTIC PHARMACEUTICAL COMPOSITIONS.BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION This invention is concerned with pharmaceutical compositions comprising the levorotatory enantiomers of 3 methoxycyproheptadine and a related compound and their use as antipsychotic agents.It is also concerned with the optically active enantiomers of l cyclopropylmethyl 4 3 methoxy 5H dibenzo a,d cyclohepten 5 ylidene piperidine, as a novel compound. The levorotatory enantiomer of 3 methoxycyproheptadine is known as an antiserotonin agent in U.S. Patent 4,104,398. Now with this invention there are provided novel pharmaceutical compositions comprising levorotatory 3 methoxycyproheptadine or an analog thereof as active ingredient, which are useful as antipsychotic agents. There is also provided a novel method of treating psychoses with these novel pharmaceutical compositions. There are also provided certain novel compounds within the class of 3 methoxycyproheptadines and analogs thereof and novel processes for synthesizing these novel compounds. DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION The novel compounds of this invention are the levorotatory and dextrorotatory enantiomers of l cyclopropylmethyl 4 3 methoxy 5H dibenzo a,d cyclohepten 5 ylidene piperidine, having structural formula EMI2.1 or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof. The pharmaceutically acceptable salts of the novel compounds of this invention are acid addition salts formed from a novel compound and an organic or inorganic acid recognized by the art as providing a pharmaceutically acceptable acid addition salt, such as hydrochloride, hydrobromide, dihydrogen phosphate, sulfate, pamoate, citrate, napsylate, pyruvate, isethionate, maleate, fumarate, or the like. The salts are prepared by dissolving approximately equimolecular amounts of the free base compound and the desired acid in a solvent followed by crystallization of the salt product. The novel process for the preparation of the compounds of this invention comprises dehydration of l cyclopropylmethyl s 3 methoxy 5 hydroxy 5H dibenzo a, d cyclohepten 5 yl piperidine with a dehydrating agent such as trifluoroacetic acid trifluoroacetic anhydride at reflux temperature, to form a racemic mixture of the novel compounds of this invention. The racemic mixture is then resolved by formation of diastereomeric salts with it and an optically active acid such as di p toluoyl d tartaric acid in a solvent such as ethanol followed by separation of the diastereomeric pair of salts such as by fractional crystallization followed by separate treatment of each salt with an alkali such as an alkali metal hydroxide, bicarbonate or carbonate, especially sodium bicarbonate or carbonate to liberate the free and enantiomers.The levorotatory isomer is further resolved via recrystallization from a solvent such as acetonitrile. The optically enriched dextrorotatory compound obtained as described above can be racemized by heating a solution of it in an inert solvent until a sample fails to show optical activity. It is convenient to reflux a toluene solution for about 10 50 hours. In this manner, additional quantities of the racemic compound can be obtained from which additional levorotatory material can be isolated by the above described resolution. Experimental details for preparation of the novel and l cyclopropylmethyl compounds can be obtained from United States Patent No. 4,104,398,Examples 1 and 2 which describe the synthesis of the corresponding and l methyl compounds respectively. The compounds useful in the novel method of treatment and novel pharmaceutical formulations of this invention have structural formula EMI4.1 or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, wherein R1 is methyl or cyclopropylmethyl. The pharmaceutically acceptable salts contemplated for this purpose are the same salts discussed herein in connection with the novel compounds. As pointed out by Ebnother et al.,Helv. Chim. Acta, 48, 1237 1249 1965 these compounds exist as levorotatory and dextrorotatory optical enantiomers. All of the antipsychotic activity resides in the levorotatory enantiomers, but the racemic mixtures of the levo and dextrorotatory enantiomers, the mixture from which the levorotatory enantiomers are obtained are still potent antipsychotic agents and are useful in the novel method of treatment and novel pharmaceutical formulations of this invention. Thus there is contemplated for use in the novel method of treatment and pharmaceutical formulations 1 racemic mixtures of levo and dextrorotatory enantiomers, herein after referred to as racemic compounds and 2 any mixtures optically enriched in the levorotatory sense or pure levorotatory enantiomers, hereinafter referred to as levorotatory compounds . The novel method of treatment of this invention comprises the administration of an antipsychotically effective amount of one of the racemic or levorotatory compounds or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof to a psychotic patient.The route of administration can be oral, rectal, intravenous, intramuscular, or subcutaneous. Doses of 0.1 to 20 mg kg day and preferably of 0.5 to 10 mg kg day of active ingredient are adequate, and if preferred, it can be administered in divided doses given two to four times daily. It is to be noted that the precise unit dosage form and dosage level depend upon the case history of the individual being treated and, consequently, are left to the discretion of the therapist. Pharmaceutical compositions comprising a compound useful in the novel method of treatment as active ingredient may be in any art recognized form suitable for oral use, such as tablets, troches, lozenges, aqueous or oil suspensions, dispersible powders, or granules, emulsions, hard or soft capsules, syrups, or elixirs. For intravenous and intramuscular and subcutaneous use the pharmaceutical compositions may be in any art recognized form of a sterile injectable preparation such as a sterile aqueous or oleaginous solution or suspension. The amount of active ingredient incorporated in a unit dosage of the above described pharmaceutical compositions may be from 1 to 400 mg, and preferably from 5 to 250 mg. PharmacologyAntiavoidance Activity in Squirrel MonkeysMethods Squirrel monkeys Saimiri sciureus of both sexes were trained to press a lever in order to avoid an electric shock. The animals were trained and tested while restrained in a chair in an isolation chamber. The electric shock 600 V a.c., 2 mA, 1 second was given via leads placed on the seat of the chair and a ring around the animal s neck. Background noise was supplied with a Grason Stadler Noise Generator. A modified Sidman avoidance schedule RS 36 SS 36 was used, programming 36 seconds of shock free time after each lever press avoidance response . A lever press made during a shock escape response immediately terminated the shock, resetting the shock shock interval timer to 36 seconds. The avoidance schedule also contained an alarm system to shut off the schedule for 30 minutes, if an animal received 10 consecutive shocks without a lever press.This prevented the animals from receiving an excessive number of shocks. Following the 30 minute alarm period, the schedule resumed again. An animal was assigned the maximum number of shocks 50 30 minutes , if the alarm system was activated during a trial.The test compound was administered by gavage at cumulative doses of 0.33, 1 and 3 mg kg given at 0, 90 and 180 minutes of the test session.Results l methyl 4 3 methoxy 5H dibenzo a,d cyclohepten 5 ylidene piperidine caused the monkeys to take a large number of shocks, i.e. avoidance responding was markedly depressed Table 1 . Chlorpromazine, a reference standard, also exhibited a similar action in this test procedure. Table I. Antiavoidance Activity in Squirrel Monkey. Shocks Received 30 Minutes Time minutes Treatment 0 30 30 60 60 90 90 120 120 150 150 18 180 210 210 240 240 270 mg kg p.o. 0.33 1.0 3.0Controla 0 1 0 0 3 0 0 0 0Test Compoundb 1 2 1 2 31 42 37 36 37Controla 0 1 3 3 3 1 1 2 3Chlorpro 0 0 0 0 2 2 5 50 50 mazineb a Average of 2 control sessions one before and one after drug testing for 3 monkeys.b Average for the same 3 monkeys for one session. EXAMPLE 1Pharmaceutical Compositions A typical tablet containing 100 mg of l methyl 4 3 methoxy 5H dibenzo a,d cyclohepten 5 ylidene piperidine per tablet is prepared by mixing together with the active ingredient calcium phosphate, lactose and starch in the amounts shown in the table below. After these ingredients are thoroughly mixed, the appropriate amount of magnesium stearate is added and the dry mixture is then compressed into tablets. Tablet FormulaIngredient Mg per Tablet l methyl 4 3 methoxy 5H dibenzo a,d1 cyclohepten 5 ylidene piperidine 100 mgCalcium phosphate 52 mgLactose 60 mgStarch 10 mgMagnesium stearate 1 mg Similarly tablets containing the other racemic or levorotatory compound active in the novel method of treatment of this invention are prepared by substituting for the l methyl 4 3 methoxy 5H dibenzofa,dAcyclohepten 5 ylidene piperidine a comparable molecular amount of either the racemic or levorotatory l cyclopropylmethyl 4 3 methoxy 5H dibenzo a,d cyclohepten 5 ylidene piperidine or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof.