# METHOD AND APPARATUS FOR INTERPOLATING IMAGE SIGNALS

## Claims
Vorrichtung zum Einfügen zusätzlicher Bildsignale in zwei Dimensionen, mit

## Description
The present invention relates to a method and an apparatus for interpolating image signals, and more particularly, it relates to a method and an apparatus for interpolating image signals in processing of input and output images which are different in number of pixels. In order to, for example, enlarge or reduce images, it is necessary to output the images in a different number of pixels from that of input images. Generally well known is technique of varying magnifications of images for an image processing device such as a process scanner, a laser printer, a facsimile or the like which temporarily stores image data in a memory having storage capacity for, e.g., one scanning line while relatively varying pixel clocks or memory addresses for writing and reading the image data in and from the memory with target magnifications thereby to increase or decrease the number of pixels. Examples of such technique are as follows A first system employs a frequency dividing circuit included in a PLI circuit, the frequency dividing ratio of which is varied to change pixel clock frequencies in writing and reading operations as disclosed in, e.g., Japanese Patent Publication Gazette No. 50561 1977. Although such a method substantially has no problem in a low frequency range, the PLL circuit is complicated in structure and a high speed processing circuit device is required in order to obtain outputs of a highly enlarged magnification value in an apparatus requiring processing in a high frequency range, whereby the cost is inevitably increased. In a second system, pixel clocks are employed in such a manner that additional pulses are inserted between ordinary periodic pixel clocks, i.e., synchronous pulse trains, as disclosed in, e.g., Japanese Patent Laying Open Gazette No. 11601 1978. Such pixel clocks are adapted to designate addresses for writing in a memory while the original pixel clocks are adapted to designate addresses for reading from the memory, whereby reproduced pixels in the pattern of an original are increased in number in comparison with the pixels read or sampled from the original to provide enlarged image outputs. On the other hand, the pixel clocks may be adapted to designate the addresses for reading, thereby to obtain reduced image outputs. In such a system, however, the additional pulses must be inserted between the pulse trains in predetermined periods, whereby designation of magnifications for varying the same is restricted to, e.g., a range of 50 to 200 in the embodiment as disclosed in the Japanese Patent Laying Open Gazette No. 11601 1978. Further, the magnification settable intervals are restricted to n 1 n 100 n integer , i.e., 1 2, 2 3,... 1,... 3 2 and 2 1. A third system writes image data in a memory at a constant frequency pixel clock or sampling pitch to access the same with memory addresses being partially defaulted for reduction or duplicated for enlargement, thereby to decrease or increase the number of outputted pixels, as disclosed in, e.g., Japanese Patent Laying Open Gazettes Nos. 65601 1979 and 35613 1979. According to such technique, distribution of the defaulted or duplicated addresses is averaged to considerably reduce uneveness of outputted images in reduction or enlargement, whereas the circuit structure for such averaging is complicated. Such a tendency is spurred by increase in the range of magnifications. In the conventional magnification varying systems, thus, it has been difficult to obtain images in which additional pixels are evenly distributed in a wide magnification range with relatively simple circuit structure. Further, the output operation is performed only through the pixel data written in the memory in each of the aforementioned systems, and hence continuous pixels in specific gradation are unexpectedly followed by those in different gradation when identical pixel data are repeated in a reproduced image in enlargement, whereby space gradation in the reproduced image cannot be smoothly changed. In addition to the aforementioned case of enlargement and reduction, it is also necessary to output an image in a different number of pixels from that of the input image in order to obtain, e.g., an output image in resolution higher than that of the input image as hereinafter described. In case where one dimensional photoelectric conversion element array device such as a CCD line sensor, a CPD line sensor or a MOS type line sensor is applied to, e.g., a process scanner which requires high output resolution, the upper limit of input resolution depends on the form and characteristics specific to the one dimensional photoelectric conversion element array device as employed. In other words, the one dimensional photoelectric conversion element array device is formed by a number of linearly arrayed photoelectric conversion elements having prescribed areas so that main scanning is performed along the direction of the array, and hence the input resolution in the main scanning direction is determined by the number of the photoelectric conversion elements. In order to improve the input resolution in the main scanning direction, therefore, it is necessary to increase the number of the photoelectric conversion elements included in the one dimensional photoelectric conversion element array device, whereas such increase is restricted as for a device. On the other hand, input resolution in the vertical scanning direction is determined by the form, the charge storage time and the vertical scanning speed of, e.g., a storage type of such a device. Therefore, the input resolution in the vertical direction can be improved without changing the form of the device by increasing the amount of incident light to reduce the storage time, whereas intense illumination is required to cause other problems such as heat generation in an illumination system. Even if the storage time can be reduced by intensifying the illumination for an original, the signal charges thus obtained and read at a high speed within the said storage time cannot be followed by the conversion speed of an A D converter in a subsequent stage in wide gradation e.g., 12 bits required for process and, therefore, required is processing such as parallel processing through a plurality of costly A D converters, leading to a complicated processing circuit with increase in cost. Also proposed is a method of forming a process scanner of high resolution by arraying a plurality of one dimensional photoelectric conversion element array devices in a linear or zigzag manner, whereas, in such a method, registration of the one dimensional photoelectric conversion element array devices and adjustment of optical systems are complicated while a circuit for processing image signals thus obtained is complicated with increase in cost. Consequently, it is not advisable to improve input resolution to a level equivalent to output resolution in the case of an apparatus such as a process scanner which requires high output resolution. In consideration of characteristics of the one dimensional photoelectric conversion element array device such as a CCD line sensor and an A D converter employed therein, it is rather preferable to set the input resolution to be lower than the output resolution while compensating the difference between the same by increasing the number of pixels of the input image through appropriate image processing thereby to obtain an effect substantially equivalent to that in the case of high input resolution. Also in this case, it is preferable that gradation of the output image is not abruptly changed, similarly to the aforementioned case of enlargement, to obtain an output image of smooth picture quality. An apparatus and a method for interpolating binary valued image data in two dimensions is known from US A 4 193 092 and EP A 0 016 299. According to US A 4 193 092, at an input station, additional image pixels are interpolated from the image pixels originally scanned and, at an output station, at least one additional line of image pixels is interpolated for each line of image pixels from the image pixels previously obtained. According to EP A 0 016 299, the image is modified by duplication, for enlargement, or elimination, for reduction, of consecutive lines and or columns of pixels. This principle is in particular suitable in the field of copiers having low resolution. From US A 4 288 821, it is known in the field of multiresolution image signal processing to interpolate in one dimension, i.e. in one direction of a pixel array. It is an object of the present invention to provide a method and an apparatus for interpolating image signals, which method an apparatus can readily obtain an output image of smooth picture quality with simple structure when input pixels are different in number from output pixels, particularly when the output pixels are larger in number than the input pixels. This object is accomplished by an apparatus according to claim 1 and a method according to claim 4. The mentioned and other objects, features, aspects and advantages of the present invention will become more apparent from the following detailed description of the invention when taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings. Fig. 1 is a schematic diagram showing a first embodiment of the present invention Fig. 2 is a detailed illustration of a technical example related to the first embodiment Fig. 3 is a diagram showing the principle of producing data in a clock memory of the related technical example Fig. 4 is a flow chart showing data producing processing in the clock memory of the related technical example Fig. 5 is a timing chart showing the operation of the related technical example Figs. 6 and 7 illustrate image data in enlargement processing Fig. 8 is a detailed schematic diagram showing the first embodiment Fig. 9 is a diagram showing the principle of interpolation in the first embodiment Figs. 10A and 10B are a flow chart showing data producing processing in a clock memory of the first embodiment Fig. 11 is a timing chart showing the operation of the first embodiment as shown in Fig. 8 Fig. 12 is a block diagram showing an example of a process scanner to which a second embodiment of the present invention is applied Figs. 13 and 14 are conceptual diagrams showing an image input optical system Fig. 15 is a block diagram showing an example of an interpolation circuit of the second embodiment Fig. 16 is a timing chart showing the operation of the interpolation circuit as shown in Fig. 15 Fig. 17 is a typical diagram showing input output image signals Fig. 18 illustrates examples of image signals before and after interpolation and Fig. 19 is a block diagram showing another example of the interpolation circuit of the second embodiment. Description is now made on a first embodiment, in which interpolation processing according to the present invention is applied to image enlargement in an image processing apparatus which receives image data to store the same in memory means thereby to output the image data at a designated magnification value. Fig. 1 is a schematic diagram showing the first embodiment which is applied to a drum scanning type process color scanner 1, while the present invention is not restricted to such application, but is applicable also to a drum scanning type monochrome scanner, a flat bed scanning type process scanner and the like. In Fig. 1, arrows in double lines denote image signals and arrows in solid lines denote control pulses while those in dot lines denote control signals for a vertical scanning driving motor respectively. The color scanner 1 as shown in Fig. 1 is provided with an original drum 3 around which an original 2 is wound and recording drum 5 around which a photosensitive material 4 is wound. Both of the original and recording drums 3 and 5 are fixed to a drum shaft 6, which is synchronously rotated by driving force supplied from a motor 9 through a pulley 7 and a belt 8. In an opposite manner to the original drum 3 and the recording drum 5, a pickup head 10 and an exposure head 11 are arranged to be movable in parallel with the drum shft 6, to be fed by feed screws 14 and 15 through driving force supplied from driving pulse motors 12 and 13 respectively. The pickup head 10 contains a color separation optical system and a plurality of photoelectric conversion elements etc. to read color tones and optical density of the original 2 thereby to generate color separated image signals in the three primary colors. The color separated image signals are subjected to arithmetic processing in a color and gradation correcting circuit 16 for correction of the color tones and gradtion, to be converted to image signals for recording. The converted signals are supplied to an A D converter 17, which in turn samples the said signals in response to periodic pixel clocks CK1 from a timing control part 23 as hereinafter described, thereby to sequentially perform A D conversion of the same. The image signals thus A D converted are supplied to an image memory 18. In the apparatus according to the present invention, a desired reproduced image magnification value is previously designated in a magnification setting part 20, which can be formed by a CPU or combination of digital switches and a decoder. The image data are written in the image memory 18 in such a manner that a memory address generation part 19 generates address signals in response to the signals from the magnification setting part 20 in such modes as herein after described to write the image data in addresses of the image memory 18. In a similar manner, the image data are read from the addresses of the image memory 18 designated by outputs from the memory address generation part 19, to be supplied to an interpolation arithmetic circuit 21 in a subsequent stage. The interpolation arithmetic circuit 21 is adapted to interpolate the read pixels in a mode as hereinafter described when the magnication is designated in an enlarged size, while supplying the said outputs to a halftone dot generator 22 with no such interpolation when the magnification is designated in an equal or reduced size. The halftone dot generator 22 compares the received image signals and reference halftone dot signals to generate halftone dot outputs, thereby to record or reproduce the image on the photosensitive material 4 through the exposure head 11. In synchronization with input pulses from a pulse generator PG which is synchronous with rotation of the drum shaft 6, the timing control part 23 generates the pixel clocks CK1, main scanning periodic clocks CK2 indicating initiation or completion of one main scanning operation and the control signals for the driving pulse motors 12 and 13, to supply the same to the respective parts as shown in Fig. 1. The remaining mechanical structure and the like are identical to those of a well known facsimile etc. and detailed description thereof is omitted. In order to facilitate understanding of present invention, description is now made on a technical example which is closely related to the present invention. This technical example not yet published has been proposed by the inventor, to attain the aforementioned principal object of the present invention. The technical example is mainly different from the first embodiment of the present invention as shown in Fig. 1 in that no interpolation circuit 21 is provided and that memory address generation part 19 is in different structure. Fig. 2 is a block diagram showing memory address generation part 19a of the technical example in detail, while other components are shown in numerals identical to those in Fig. 1. The memory address generation part 19a as shown in Fig. 2 includes an address counter programmable n ary counter 31 for receiving pixel clocks CK1 supplied from the timing control part 23 as shown in Fig. 1. The address counter 31 is previously supplied with a prescribed load value through a register 32 from a magnification setting part 20 which is formed by a CPU. Assuming that the magnification is set at n m n, m integers , such a prescribed load value can be set in a number m 1 when the address counter 31 is a down counter, or in a number 2 The count outputs from the address counter 31 are supplied as address inputs to a clock memory 33. The clock memory 33 previously stores data of m words 1 bit which are determined following a prescribed rule corresponding to the magnification as hereinafter described and are supplied from the magnification setting part 20, so that the data are read out word by word from accessed addresses to be supplied to an AND circuit 34. The AND circuit 34 gates the pixel clocks CK1 by the outputs from the clock memory 33 thereby to generate clocks second clocks CK3 obtained by regularly defaulting clock pulses from the clock pulse array of pixel clocks CK1. A selector 35 in a subsequent stage receives the pixel clocks CK1 and the second clocks CK3 to supply either the former or the latter to an address counter 36. Such selection is performed by outputs from an XOR circuit 39 which receives outputs from a flip flop 37 for selecting writing and reading and outputs from a register 38 for selecting reduction and enlargement. The selector 35 selects the clocks CK3 for reading the image data from the image memory 18 in enlargement and for writing the same thereinto in reduction and the pixel clocks CK1 in other case. In other words, data on the input terminal A of the selector 35 is selected in case of S 1 while data on the input terminal B is selected in case of S 2 in Fig. 2. respectively. The fiip flop 37 receives main scanning periodic clocks CK2 while the register 38 receives inputs from the magnfication setting part 20. The address counter 36 receives the clocks thus selected and counts the same to supply its address outputs to the image memory 18, which in turn writes or reads the image data in correspondence to the address outputs from the address counter 36. Description is now made on data contents to be stored in the clock memory 33. The magnification setting part 20 operates the clock pulses to be defaulted from those of the pixel clocks CK1 in response to the set magnification value as hereinafter described, so that the results of the operation are stored in the clock memory 33. In this technical example, the AND circuit 34 obtains logical products of the pixel clocks CK1 and the outputs from the clock memory 33 to default m n clock pulses from m clock pulses, thereby to produce the clocks CK3. Therefore, it is required for the data to be stored in the clock memory 33 that m n pulses in the interval for m pulses of the pixel clocks CK1 become 0 and the remaining n pulses become 1 , and the n pulses of 1 are preferably distributed as averagely as possible. In the technical example, therefore, a plurality of continuous words are sequentially collected to multiply the number of the words by n m to assign 1 to the last word of every value exceeding one word thereby to obtain average distribution. Such an idea is illustrated in Fig. 3. The abscissa in Fig. 3 shows bit order I 1, 2,...,m of the data or the addresses in the clock memory 33 and the ordinate shows n m I in case of reduction at a ratio of 30 n 3, m 10 . As shown in Fig. 3, the value n m x I is linearly increased with respect to I, to exceed the integers 1, 2 and 3 in the ordinate in positions where the value I reaches 4, 7 and 10 as shown by small white circles. Thus, when the value I is sequentially increased in consideration of a set of first to I th words in this example, words which may become 1 newly appear respectively in points where I is equal to 4, 7 and 10, and hence the word DATA I corresponding to the said I values are set at 1 . With respect to the whole data from I 1 to I m 10 in the shown example , n bits within the m bits are strictly 1 as obvious from the fact that the values n m I become n at I m. In other words, the average distribution can be obtained in approximation of extremely high accuracy while strictly maintaining the designated magnification value. Fig. 4 is a flow chart illustrating procedure of producing the data to be stored in the clock memoryy 44 by the magnification setting part 20 in accordance to the said rule. The flow chart as shown in Fig. 4 is now described, also with reference to Fig. 3 illustrating relation between amounts A and A1 in Fig. 4 and the value I. At a step S1, the value I is set as 1 and the amount A is set at zero, and at a subsequent step S2, the integral part of n m I is operated to be assigned to A1. Then, at a step S3, a determination is made on correspondence between A1 and A. For example, when I 1 in the example as shown in Fig. 3, A1 A 0 and hence the process is advanced to a step S4, at which data DATA I to be assigned to an I th word is set at 0 . Then, at a step S6, the value I is increased by 1 and the value A is redefined by the current value A1, and the process is advanced to a step S7. When the value I is smaller than m, the process is returned to the step S2. Such operation is repeated on I 1, 2 and 3 respectively in the example as shown in Fig. 3, while it is assumed here that the value I becomes 4 thereafter. Then, A1 becomes 1 at the step S2 refer to A1 corresponding to I 4 in Fig. 3 , and hence A1 A at the step S3, wherby the process is advanced to the step S5 to set the data DATA I at 1 . Then, the value A is set at A1 1 at the step S6. In a subsequent processing loop I 5 , A1 A 1 , and hence the data DATA I again becomes 0 . The data DATA I for the respective values I are defined in such a manner, and the data production is completed when I m. As illustrated in Fig. 3, through the fact that A1 indicating the integral part of n m x I and A following A1 in delay by 1 word are discrepant only in points where A1 is changed, the data DATA I is set at 1 with respect to the value I with the said discrepancy in the processing as shown in Fig. 4. It may be understood from Fig. 3 that such discrepance appears in the positions shown by the small white circles on the graph of n m I as shown in Fig. 3. Table 1 shows the data to be stored in the clock memory 33 obtained on the basis of the aforementioned rule. For example, the column of the magnificatin at the ratio of 30 m 10, n 3 shows the data as shown in the lower part of Fig. 3 begins from 1 in Table 1, for convenience of illustration . Although the above description has been made on the case of reduction, such reduction is only different from enlargement as to whether the clocks CK3 obtained on the basis of the data are employed for writng in the image memory 19 or reading from the same, and hence the same data contents may be employed in a corresponding manner. For such reason, the data on reduction at a ratio of n m are identical to those on enlargement at a ratio of m n in Table 1. With reference to a timing chart shown in Fig. 5, the operation of this technical example will be described particularly on portions characterizing this example. In Fig. 5, the operation is performed on the values m 3 and n 2, i.e., enlargement at a ratio of 150 in magnification and reduction at a ratio of 66 in magnification. Operation for enlargement at the ratio of 150 is now described. In advance to receiving an image, the magnification value 150 is set by the magnification setting part 20. Then the magnification setting part 20 performs arithmetic to obgtain the data of m 3 words x 1 bit to be stored in the clock memory 33 in accordance with the flow chart as shown in Fig. 4, to store the same in the clock memory 33. The magnification seting part 20 simultaneously loads the value of m in the address counter 31 through the register 32 while supplying signals to the register 38 to place the same in a state indicating enlargement . Upon initiation of reading the original 2, the main scanning periodic clocks CK2 are supplied so that the flip flop 37 enters a state indicating writing and the address counter 36 is cleared. Then, the pixel clocks Ck1 from the timing control part 23 Fig. 1 are periodically supplied as shown at Fig. 5 a . The address counter 31 counts the pixel clocks CK1 to output address signals which are increased or decreased pulse by pulse and cycle per m pulses of the pixel clocks CK1. The clock memory 33 receives the outputs as address inputs, to sequentially read out the aforementioned data see Fig. 5 b stored therein. The AND circuit 34 receives the data to gate the pixel clocks CK1 by the same thereby to generate the clocks CK3 obtained by regularly defaulting the pulses of the pixel clocks CK1, as shown at Fig. 5 c . On the other hand, the output from the register 37 is 1 writing and the output from the register 38 is 0 enlargement at this time, and hence the XOR circuit 39 outputs 1 . As hereinabove described, the selector 35 selects the A inputs with respect to S 1, and hence the address counter 36 receives the pixel clocks CK1 in this case. Thus, the address counter 36 generates address outputs see Fig. 5 d corresponding to the periodic pixel clocks CK1 to supply the same to the image memory 18. Therefore, the image memory 18 stores all the original pixel data received in this apparatus with no omission for the writing operation. Now considered is the reading operation for the enlargement, which is different from the aforementioned writing operation in the following points The flip flop 37 is placed in a 0 reading state by the main scanning periodic clocks CK2. Then the XOR circuit 39 outputs 0 , whereby the B inputs, i.e., the clocks CK3 are selected by the selector 35. thus, the address counter 36 receives pulses in the form as shown at Fig. 5 c , to continuously access the same addresses in positions the pulses are defaulted from the clocks CK3, as shown at Fig. 5 e . In the operation for reading the image data from the image memory 18, a plurality of continuous pixels having the same contents are followed by subsequent pixels, thereby to reproduce the image in enlarged form. The operation for reduction is performed in an inverse manner to the above operatin for enlargement. In other words, the register 38 indicates 1 reduction and hence the selector 35 selects the clocks CK3 for writing and the pixel clocks CK1 for reading respectively. Thus, address signals corresponding to the clocks CK3 are generated in writing as shown at Fig. 5 f , so that the image data are recorded along the main scanning direction on the original with the pixels reduced in processing. The image data are read by the pixel clocks CK1 in reading, thereby to provide a reduced reproduced image. Thus, the clock pulses are so defaulted that the pixels are increased in enlargement and decreased in reduction. According to the aforementioned technical example, the values n and m can be arbitrarily set to enable image processing in a wide variable range of magnifications with simple circuit structure. Further, unevenness of the reproduced image is reduced by the average distribution of the default pulses as hereinabove described. Thus, the technical example attains the principal object of the present invention. However, the increase in the pixel data causes problems in the reproduced image in enlargement. For example, image data as shown at Fig. 6 b are obtained by applying the aforementioned enlargement 250 to original data as shown at Fig. 6 a , where as gradation changes are partially inverted as shown at Fig. 6 c by application of processing for enhancing sharpness. Further, when the enlargement is performed on an original having gradation boundary lines slanted in directions defferent from both of main and vertical scanning directions as shown at Fig. 7 a , the reproduced gradation boundary lines are inevitably stepped as shown at Fig. 7 b . Accordingly, the present invention is so structured as to perform interpolatin for enlargement in order to overcome the aforementioned problems, while employing the technical idea of the above related example. Fig. 8 is a block diagram showing the first embodiment as shown in Fig. 1 in detail, which is defferent from the technical example of Fig. 2 in the following points In comparison with the memory address generation part 19a of the technical example, the memory address generation part 19 of the first embodiment is characterized in that the clock memory 40 is with data input outputs in two bit structure, and storage contents thereof include new information as hereinafter described, that one input of the AND circuit 41 is in two bit structure, and that the interpolation arithmetic circuit 21 receives the clocks CK3 and the outputs from the clock memory 40. On the other hand, the outputs from the image memory 18 are supplied to two D type flip flops or D FFs 51 and 52 which are connected in series with each other and included in the interpolation arithmetic circuit 21. The D FFs 51 and 52 receive the clocks CK3 in latch inputs thereof. Respective outputs V₁ and V₂ from the D FFs 51 and 52 are supplied to three linear interpolation circuits 53a to 53c. The linear interpolation circuits 53a to 53c receive the outputs V₁ and V₂ to operate three linear interpolation values as follows V₁ V₂ 2 ... 1 2V₁ V₂ 3 ... 2 V₁ 2V₂ 3 ... 3 which are supplied as B to D inputs for a selector 54. The outputs V₁ original pixel data from the D FF 52 are directly supplied as A inputs to the selector 54. One of the four inputs A to D are selected by the two bit outputs from the clock memory 40, to serve as Y outputs. This embodiment is so structured that the D, C, B and A inputs are respectively selected when the selecting inputs respectively indicate 0 , 1 , 2 and 3 . Therefore, in this case, 3 indicates the original pixel data and 2 indicates signals in the expression 1 while 1 indicates signals in the expression 2 and 0 indicates signals in the expression 3 . This is shown as 0 to 3 in Table 2 which is inserted few pages after. Further, the outputs from the selector 54 and the outputs V₁ from the D FF 52 are received by a selector 55, which in turn selects the A inputs for reduction and the B inputs for enlargement respectively to supply the same to the halftone dot generator 22, with the reduction enlargement indicating inputs supplied from the magnification setting part 20 through the register 38 as selection inputs. Description is now made on data contents to be stored in the clock memory 40. The data are supplied in the unit of one bit in the aforementioned case, while the same are in two bit units this time, to include selection data for selecting interpolation data. In the first embodiment, clock pulses are regularly defaulted from the pixel clocks CK1 following the rule employed in the aforementioned related technical example while pixels newly added in correspondence to the default pulses are assigned with values obtained by interpolation of data on original pexels adjacent to the same. It is to be noted that the first embodiment is directed to enlargement up to 300 . The interpolation values vary with positional relation between the said added pixels and the original pixels, to assign a value obtained by simply averaging two pixel data V₁ and V2 e.g., gradation data on two original pixels with respect to an added pixel P₀ when the said pixel P₀ is between the said two original pixels, and values obtained by weightedly averaging in the ratio of 1 2 and 2 1, when two continuous added pixels P₁ and P₂ are inserted between two original pixels, the two pixel data V₁ and V₂ on the two original pixels with respect to the added pixels P₁ and P₂ respectively. Such interpolation is called linear interpolation. Therefore, it is necessary to find the added pixels in the outputs from the image memory 18 and find positional relation between the said added pixels and the original pixels. In the first embodiment according to the present invention, the former ionformation is indicated by using similar data to that in Table 1 for indicating the pulse default rule employed in the aforementioned technical example while the latter positional relation is indicated by assigning one of three values as hereinafter described to words indicating default in the data. Figs. 10A and 10B show processing for assigning such values. A routine S10 in Fig. 10 is identical to the routine as shown in Fig. 4 except for that the process in the case of A1 A step S5 is performed as DATA I 3, and detailed description thereof is omitted. Thus, obtained after completion of the routine S10 are data in which 1 is replaced by 3 in the data as shown in Table 1. As a subsequent step S11, a determination is made as to whether or not the designated magnification indicates enlargement, and when the determenation is of no, no interpolation is required and the processing is completed. When the determination is of yes, the process is advanced to a step S12, at which I is assigned with 1 while 0 th and m 1 th words are defined through use of data on m th and first words respectively. Such definition is performed in consideration of case where the added pixel is in a position corresponding to the first or m th word, in order to attain the data on the pixels adjacent to the added pixel, through the fact that the data are repeatedly used in a cyclic manner. At a subsequent step S13, a determination is made as to whether or not the I th word is in the value 3 , and if the determination is of yes, the process is advanced to a step S19. In other words, no interpolation is required in this case since a pixel supplied by a non defaulted clock pulse is an original pixel. On the other hand, when the I th word is determined as a value other than 3 , a further determination is made at a subsequent step S14 as to whether or not a I 1 th word indicates 3 . When the determination is of no, the word is assigned with 0 at a step S15. In this case, the pulse part corresponding to the I th word is defaulted and a pixel immediately ahead of the added pixel thereby generated is also an added pixel, that is, the added pixel corresponds to P₂ as shown at Fig. 9 b , and hence the value 0 is assigned for indicating assignment of the value V₁ 2V₂ 3 in operation as hereinafter described. When the I 1 th word indicates 3 at the step S14, a determination is made at a step S16 as to whether or not the I 1 th word is 3 . If the determination is of no, the I th word is assigned with 1 at a step S17. In this case, the I 1 th and I 1 th words adjacent to the I th word indicate the original and added pixels respectively, the positional relation recognized as that shown by P₁ at Fig. 9 b , and hence V₁ 2V₁ V₂ 3 is assigned by the value 1 . When the I 1 th word is also determined as 3 at the step S16, the word indicates the added pixel interposed between the original pixels, and the word is assigned with 2 to provide V₁ V₂ 2. After the aforementioned data assignment, the value I is increased by 1 at a step S19 and a determination is made at a step S20 as to whether or not I is greater than m. If the value I is smaller than m, the process is returned to the step S12 to repeat the aforementioned processing, while the processing is completed when the value I becomes greater than m. Table 2 shows data obtained by the said processing, in which all of the values 1 in Table 1 are replaced by 3 and the values 0 in Table 1 are changed to any of 0 to 2 depending on the positional relation as shown in Fig. 9. Description is now made on the operation of the first embodiment in the aforementioned structure with reference to Fig. 8 and a timing chart as shown in Fig. 11. Briefly mentioned in the following description are components operated similarly to those of the related technical example. Further, consideration is made on the case of m 5 and n 2, i.e., enlargement at a ratio of 250 and reduction at a ratio of 40 . In the enlargement at 250 , the magnification setting part 20 setting this magnification value operates data of m 5 words 2 bits column of 250 in Table 2 in accordance with the flow chart as shown in Fig. 10, to store the same in the clock memory 40 as shown in Fig. 8. Further, the register 38 is placed in an enlargement state. When reading of the original 2 is started, the flip flop 37 enters a state indicating writing , and the address counter 36 is cleared. In advance to this, the other address counter 31 is loaded with the value m 5 , to sequentially supply cyclic address signals with periods for m pulses of the received pixel clocks CK1 Fig. 11 a to the clock memory 40. As shown at Fig. 11 b , the clock memory 40 sequentially outputs the data stored therein in a cyclic manner. The AND circuit 31 gates the pixel clocks CK1 by the outputs from the clock memory 40 to generate the clocks CK3 as shown at Fig. 11 c from which the pulses are regularly defaulted. However, the selector 35 selects the A inputs, i.e., the pixel clocks CK1 in writing for enlargement as hereinafter described, and hence the address counter 36 outputs periodic address signals as shown at Fig. 11 d . Therefore, the image data are written in the image memory 18 in response to the periodic pixel clocks CK1. In such writing operation, since the image memory 18 is in a data input state to make no data output, the interpolation arithmetic circuit 21 is not operated. In reading operation, the flip frop 37 indicates reading and hence the selector 35 selects the B inputs, i.e., the clocks CK3. Therefore, the address outputs from the address counter 36 corresponds in timing to the clocks CK3 as shown at Fig. 11 e while the reading outputs from the image memory 18 also correspond in timing to the clocks CK3. The image data read in the aforementioned manner are supplied as data inputs to the D FF 51 in the interpolation arithmetic circuit 21. On the other hand, the D FF 51 is supplied with clocks CK3 as the latch outputs, whereby the received image data are latched by the pulse intervals of the clocks CK3, to be transferred to the D FF 52 in the subsequent stage, which in turn performs similar operation. Thus, the outputs V₁ from the D FF 52 are image data delayed by two pulses of the clpocks CK3 while the outputs V₂ from the D FF 51 are those delayed by one pulse, as shown at Fig. 11 f and g . Symbol D Linear interpolation circuits 53a to 53c are adapted to operate interpolation values in response to the outputs V₁ and V₂, to supply the same to the selector 54. The selector 54 is also supplied with the outputs V₁ as the A inputs. Selection inputs S of the selector 54 are obtained by the outputs from the clock memory 40, and hence selection of the A to D inputs is determined by the data 0 to 3 outputted from the clock memory 40. The outputs from the selector 54 in such selecting relation are shown at Fig. 11 h . Thus, the selector 55 in the subsequent stage is supplied as B inputs with signals controlled by values of the data stored in the clock memory 40. The selector 55 is supplied as its A inputs with the outputs V₁ from the D FF 52, and one of the two inputs A and B are selected by the S inputs from the register 38, which are adapted to select the B inputs of the selector 55 in enlargement. Thus, the selector 55 supplies enlarged image data obtained by assigning the interpolation values to the pixels added by default of the clock pulses to the halftone dot generator 22. The aforementioned data stored in the clock memory 40 in the enlargement at 250 can also be employed in reduction at the ratio of 40 . The operation of the momory address generation part 19 in the case of reduction is similar to that for enlargement except for that the clock pulses are defaulted in writing while reading operation is performed in timing by the pixel clocks CK1, and description thereof is omitted. However, it is to be noted that the selector 55 included in the interpolation arithmetic circuit 21 is supplied as the S inputs of the selector 55 included therein with signals to select the A inputs of the same from the magnification setting part 20. Thus, no outputs from the linear interpolation circuits 53a to 53c are supplied to the halftone dot generator 22, whereby the read out image data are always directly outputted. According to the first embodiment of the present invention, the interpolation values are provided in the aforementioned operation thereby to obtain the image data as shown at Fig. 6 d by naturally enlarging the original as shown at Fig. 6 a . Further, inversion in gradation is caused as shown at Fig. 6 e upon application of processing for enhancing sharpness. Also, when the image as shown at Fig. 7 a is enlarged, finely stepped gradation boundary lines can be obtained as shown at Fig. 7 c . In addition, the values n and m can be appropriately selected in the magnification at a ratio of n m 100 or m n 100 , thereby to arbitrarily reduce serration of the set magnificatin. As hereinabove described, the data selection data for indicating the interpolation values to be assigned in response to the positions of the pixels added in enlargement are employed as composite data composed with the data expressing the rule for defaulting the clocks as shown in Table 2 in the aforementioned embodiment. In the structure as shown in Fig. 8, calculated are three linear interpolation values for the case where one added pixel is interposed between two original pixels and for the case where two added pixels are interposed between two original pixels, and the data to be stored in the clock memory 40 may be correspondingly formed such that data for selecting the interpolation values are within three types, corresponding to the range of 100 to 300 in magnification. Required for enlargement exceeding a ratio of 300 is such an example as hereafter described. When an enlargement range of 100 to 100 x N N integer , linear interpolation circuits are arranged in parallel for performing the following arithmetic LV₁ K L V₂ K ... 4 where L 1, 2, 3,..., K 1 K 2, 3, 4,...,N 2V₁ 4V₂ 6 ... 5 V₁ 2V₂ 3 ... 6 1 Q αµρ 2 Although the data for defaulting the clocks and those for selecting the interpolation values are prepared as the composite data in the aforementioned embodiment, the present invention is not restricted to such a mode. The said data may be separately prepared to be read in a related mannner so that the default of the clocks and the selection of the interpolation values are carried out as in the above. Although the linear interpolation is performed as interpolation arithmetic in the aforementioned embodiment, interpolation other than the linear interpolation may be employed. Further, the method of fetching the data on the original pixels for the interpolation is not restricted to that employing the aforementioned D FFs. Although the above embodiment has been applied to a process color scanner to generate outputs in halftone dots, the present invention is not restricted to such application, but can be applied to any other apparatus such as a process scanner, a facsimile, a copying machine etc. for enlarging images. Since image input output operation may not be optically performed, the present invention is also applicable to an apparatus which electrically or magnetically performs input output operation. Further, significant pixels are substantially increased in number by the interpolation according to the present invention, which is thus applicable to transmission of image data between input and output units in different sampling pitches. According to the first embodiment of the present invention as herein above described, an even image can be obtained in a wide magnification variable range with an image processor which can obtain a natural image by smoothing space gradation changes of the reproduced image in enlargement. Description is now made on a second embodiment of the present invention which employs a one dimensional photoelectric conversion element array device as an input device of an image scanning recording unit such as a scanner or a facsimile to apply interpolation processing according to the present invention to processing of image signals obtained by photoelectrically scanning an original by the one dimensional photoelectric conversion element array device. Fig. 12 is a block diagram showing an example of a process scanner to which the present invention is applied. The structure as shown in Fig. 12 is similar to that of the image signal transmission path defined between the pickup head 10 and the exposure head 11 as shown in Fig. 1, except for that arrangement is different in order and the interpolation arithmetic circuit 21 is replaced by an interpolation circuit 66. A one dimensional storage type photoelectric conversion element hereinafter referred to as CCD such as a CCD line sensor photoelectrically scans an original not shown to obtain input image signals, which are converted to multi gradation digital image signals by an A D converter 62 to be temporarily stored in a plurality of line memories 63 for storing the input image signals. The image signals appropriately read from the line memories 63 are corrected in gradation with color correction in case of color image signals in a gradation correcting circuit 64 and subjected to processing for enhancing sharpness with respect to at least one of the main and vertical scanning directions in a sharpness enhancing circuit 65, to be supplied to the interpolation circuit 66. The interpolation circuit 66 performs interpolation processing according to the present invention, details of which are hereinafter described. The interpolated image signals are converted into image signals in a desired magnification value by a magnification varying circuit 67, to be subjected to halftone dot generation processing by a halftone dot generation circuit 68. An AOM acoustic optical converter driving circuit 69 receives signals from the halftone dot generation circuit 68 to drive an exposure part 70, thereby to record a desired haftone dot image on a photosensitive material not shown . In case of recording continuous tone images including characters, no such halftone dot generation is performed by the haftone dot generation circuit 68 as shown by the dot line in Fig. 12. The aforementioned structure of the process scanner is well known in the art except for the interpolation circuit 66. Figs. 13 and 14 are conceptual diagrams showing an image input optical system including the CCD 61. The respective photoelectric conversion elements of the CCD 61 are arrayed along the main scanning direction, so that light reflected by an original 71 forms an image on the CCD 61 through a converging lens 72. With reference to Fig. 14, input resolution number of read pixels per unit length in case of photoelectrically scanning the original is determined by the magnification m of the optical system and the size of each element of the CCD 61, and assuming that L L L In general, when the image signals supplied to the halftone dot generation circuit 68 are in resolution of about 10 to 20 lines mm 250 to 500 lines inch in the aforementioned process scanner, the halftone dot image recorded on the photosensitive material is generally satisfactory in quality. However, higher resolution is preferable for further accurate process printing or processing of a line original, and in such case, output resolution of an image processing circuit including the A D converter 62,... and the magnification varying circuit 67 preferably exceeds, e.g., 39.4 lines mm 1000 lines inch . Now consider that, as an example in design, the output resolution is 59.1 lines mm 1500 lines inch to process a paper of A4 size 297 210mm with its shorter side being vertically scanned by a CCD having 5000 elements in one minute. In this case, the number of recording times in the vertical scanning direction per second is 210 59.1 60 206.9 times sec , and hence each recording time for one scanning line is about 5 ms. In order to obtain input resolution in the vertical scanning direction similar to the output resolution, therefore, illumination must be set so that the storage time of the CCD is about 5 ms, whereby considerably strong illumination is required. Further, in order to obtain similar input resolution also in the main scanning direction, the CCD requires 297 x 59.1 17553 elements. Thus, in the case of the CCD having 5000 elements, four elements must be linearly arrayed in a partially doubled manner, with arising of difficult problems to be solved such as connection between such CCDs and adjustment of horizontal registration to implement the optical system. Further, the storage time must be set at about 5 ms as hereinabove described, and hence the transfer clock frequencey of the stored charge is 17553 5 10 ³ 3.5 10⁶ Hz . In order to process outputs obtained at this repeating speed by one A D converter, the conversion speed thereof must be smaller than about 0.3 µs. In general, the conversion speed of an A D converter of about 12 bits for high gradation employed for process exceeds 1 µs, and hence parallel processing by a plurality of A D converters is required to cause complicatedness of the circuit and increase in cost. Thus, in the case of an apparatus such as a process scanner requiring high output resolution, it is not preferable to improve the input resolution to a level equivalent to the output resolution. In consideration of characteristics of CCDs and A D converters, it is rather effective to set input resolution at a level lower than the output resolution to interpolate input image signals in at least one of the main and vertical scanning directions with respect to the difference in level thereby to improve the picture quality of the image outputted in high resolution. The interpolation circuit 66 as shown in Fig. 12 is provided to attain the aforementioned object, and Fig. 15 is a block diagram showing an example of structure thereof. A CCD 73 and an A D converter 74 as shown in Fig. 15 correspond to the CCD 61 and the A D converter 62 in Fig. 12. Interpolation processing is performed by a shift register 75 etc., while circuits for correcting gradation and enhancing sharpness etc. will be provided between the A D converter 74 and the shift register 75 as shown in Fig. 15 in a practical process scanner, as shown in Fig. 12. The CCD 73 and the A D converter 74 are formed by only one generally available ones of about 5000 elements and 12 bits respectively. Repeating frequencies of clock signals CK In the structure of the interpolation circuit as shown in Fig. 15, the two stage shift register 75 temporarily stores digital image signals from the A D converter 74 by two pixels D A data selector 77 has N input terminals 0, 1, 2, ..., N 1, such that the input terminal 0 receives the image signals D The outputted image signals are alternately stored in first and second line memories 79 and 80 respectively by one scanning line. Then the signals are respectively read on read lines 85 and 86 through tri state buffer amplifiers 81 to 84 which function as gates. The tri state buffer amplifiers 81 to 84 are so controlled in timing that the image signals for one scanning line scanned in advance are always read on the read line 85. A memory control 87 controls the said timing and the timing for writing reading the signals in from the first and second line memories 79 and 80. Adders 88 1, 88 2, ..., 88 M 1 are adapted to receive the image signals for adjacent two scanning line which are read on the read lines 85 and 86 to perform prescribed interpolation arithmetic on the same. Symbol M indicates the ratio of the output resolution to the input resolution in the vertical scanning direction, which value M is set at 4 similarly to the aforementioned value N. Therefore, three adders 88 are required similarly to the adders 76. The interpolation arithmetic to be performed by the adders 88 is identical to that performed by the aforementioned adders 76, and in general, interpolated image signals are generated by replacing the value N by M in the above Table 4. Symbols D A data selector 89 has M input terminals 0,1,2, ..., M 1, so that the input terminal 0 receives the image signals on the read line 85, i.e., the image signals for the one scanning line scanned in advance, the input terminal 1 receives the output signals from the adder 88 1, the input terminal 2 receives the output signals from the adder 88 2,... and the input terminal M 1 receives the output signals from the adder 88 M 1 . These signals are sequentially selected in response to output count numbers of an M ary counter 90, to be outputted from the data selector 89. Fig. 16 is a timing chart showing the operation of the interpolation circuit as shown in Fig. 15. With reference to Fig. 16, description is now made on the operation of the interpolation circuit as shown in Fig. 15. The CCD 73 receives input vertical scanning clock signals CK Fig. 17 a typically illustrates parts of the input image signals, and each of symbols A to J indicates one pixel. The input resolution is set to be 1 4 of the output resolution in both of the main and vertical scanning directions as hereinabove described, and Fig. 17 b typically illustrates parts of the image signals to be outputted. Each of symbols A to J in dot lines denotes the input image signal correspolding to one pixel, and one pixel area of the output image signal corresponds to the slanted portion as shown in the upper left part. According to the present invention, the input image signals obtained in Fig. 17 a are interpolated to be improved in picture quality when outputted in high resolution as shown in Fig. 17 b . The two stage shift register 75 temporarily stores the image signals D The data selector 77 sequentially selects and outputs these input signals in response to the count values of the N ary counter 78. The N ary counter 78 is reset by the input main scanning clock signals CK The image data completely interpolated in the main scanning direction are alternately written in the first and second line memories 79 and 80 line by line under control by the memory control 87. The image signals interpolated in the main scanning doirection and outputted from the data selector 77 are shown at Fig. 16 e , in which symbols L3, L4 and L5 indicate the signals on the third, fourth and fifth scanning lines respectively. The memory control 87 supplies write read control signals WR 1 and WR 2 as shown at Fig. 16 j and k for indicating writing at low levels and address clock signals Adrs 1 Adrs 2 as shown at Fig. 16 1 and m to the first and second line memoris 79 and 80 respectively, so that the image signals L3, L4 and L5 for the respective scanning lines are alternately written in the first and second line memories 79 and 80 line by line in response as shown at Fig. 16 f and g . Symbols L3W and L5W at Fig. 16 f indicate the image signals L3 and L5 written in the first line memry 79, while symbol L4W at Fig. 16 g indicates the image signal L4 written in the second line memory 80. The image signals L3,L4 and L5 for the respective ones of the scanning lines thus written in the first and second line memories 79 and 80 are sequentially read in response to conversion to high levels of the write read control signals WR 1 and WR 2 as shown at Fig. 16 j and k in accordance with address clocks as shown at Fig. 16 l and m in a repeated manner. Respective one write read time for one scanning line is determined by output vertical scanning clock signals CK The image signals thus read from the first and second line memories 79 and 80 are distributed by the tri state buffer amplifiers 81 to 84 serving as gates to be derived on either read line 85 or 86 respectively. The memory control 87 supplies memory aligning signals as shown at Fig. 16 n to the respective tri state buffer amplifiers 81 to 84 to control such distribution of the image signals. In an interval T1, for example, the memory control 87 supplies low level memory aligning signals to make the tri state buffer amplifiers 81 and 84 open state. Therefore, the image signal L3 read from the first line memory 79 is derived on the read line 86 through the tri state buffer amplifier 82 while the image signal L2 scanned and written in advance to the signal L3 read from the second line memory 80 is derived on the read line 85 through the tri state buffer amplifier 83. Thus, timing control is so performed that the image signals scanned and written in advance are always derived on the read line 85. Description is now made on the operation with respect to the intervl T1 in Fig. 16, with assumption that signals A, 3A B 4, ... on the first line in Fig. 17 c correspond to the image signal L2 for one scanning line and signals D, 3D E 4, ... on the fifth line correspond to the image signal L3 for one scanning line. The M ary counter 90 is reset by the input vertical scanning clock signals CK When the M ary counter 90 outputs the count value 0, the data selector 89 selects the signals received in the input terminal 0 to output the same. At this time, the input terminal 0 receives the image signal L2 for one scanning line read from the second line memory 80 to be derived on the read line 85, i.e., the signals A, 3A B 4,... whereby the data selector 89 sequentially outputs the image signals A, 3A B 4, ... for one scanning line, as indicated by symbol L2 at Fig. 16 i which shows the outputs from the data selector 89. The output rate depends on the speed for reading the respective image signals from the second line memory 80, while the address clocks Adrs 2 at Fig. 16 m may be so determined that the respective image signals are outputted in synchronization with the output main scanning clock signals CK Then, when the M ary counter 90 outputs the count value 1, the data selector 89 selects the signals received in the input terminal 1, i.e., the output signals from the adder 88 1 to output the same. Since M 4 and the signals on the read line 85 are L2 i.e., A, 3A B 4, ... and the signals on the read line 85 are L3 i.e.., D, 3D E 4 ... , the adder 88 1 operates 3L2 L3 4 per respective pair of image signals e.g., A and D 3A B 4 and 3D E 4 etc. received in the input terminal 1 synchronously with the output main scanning clock signals CK Thereafter in a similar manner, the adder 88 2 operates 2L2 2L3 4 corresponding to the third line in Fig. 17 c in a period t3 as shown in Fig. 16 whereby the data selector 89 outputs the result in response to the count value 2 of the M ary counter 90, while the adder 88 3 operates L2 3L3 4 corresponding to the fourth line in Fig. 17 c in a subsequent period t4, whereby the data selector 89 outputs the result in response to the count value 3 of the M ary counter 90. Thus, the signals as shown in the first to fourth lines of Fig. 17 c are sequentially outputted in synchronization with the output vertical scanning clock signals CK In a subseqeunt interval T2, the memory aligning signals as shown at Fig. 16 n are phase inverted, whereby the image signal L3 from the first line memory 79, i.e., the signals D, 3D E 4, ... are derived on the read line 85. In a first period t5 of the interval T2, the data selector 89 outputs the said image signals in response to the count value 0 of the Mary ounter 90. Thus, the signals on the fifth line are outputted subsequently to those on the first to fourth lines in Fig. 17 c . Also in this period t5, the subsequent input image signal L4 from the CCD 73 is written in the second line memory 80. This image signal L4 is read on the read line 86 in subsequent periods t6 to t8, whereby the respective adders 88 perform interpolation arithmetic in the vertical direction similarly to the above, so that the data selector 89 sequentially outputs signals on the sixth to eighth lines in Fig. 17 c . Thus, the input image signals obtained in the resolution as shown in Fig. 17 a are subjected to interpolation arithmetic in the main and vertical directions to be outputted in the resolution as shown in Fig. 17 b , whereby obtained are the image signals as shown in Fig. 17 c . Fig. 18 shows examples of input image signals a and output imge signals b which are subjected to the aforementioned interpolation. In Fig. 8, the ordinate indicates pitches in the main or vertical scanning direction and the abscissa indicates, e.g., density values. Performed in Fig. 18 is interpolation of four times, i.e., the ratio of the input resolution to the output resolution is 1 4, and it is clearly understood that the picture quality is smoothly improved. Fig. 19 is a block diagram showing another example of the interpolation circuit. The interpolation circuit as shown in Fig. 19 basically functions similarly to that shown in Fig. 15, except for that the same first performs interpolation in the vertical scanning direction and then performs interpolation in the main scanning direction. In other words, the interpolation circuit as shown in Fig. 19 is different only in sequence of interpolation from that shown in Fig. 15, and the functional parts of both circuits are identical in structure and operation to each other. Therefore, the following description is made only on the sequence of interpolation, while the above description with reference to Fig. 15 is applied to the other components of the circuit as shown in Fig. 19. In the interpolation circuit as shown in Fig. 19, first and second line memories 78 and 80 are adapted to alternately store input image signals from an A D converter 74 line by line respectively. For example, it is assumed here that the signals A, B, C, ... on the first line in Fig. 17 a are written in the first line memory 79 and the signals D, E, F,... on the second line are written in the second line memory 80 . At this time, adders 88 perform interpolation arithmetic in the vertical scanning direction so that a data selector 89 sequentially outputs the signals A, B, ..., 3A D 4, 3B E 4, ..., 2A 2D 4, 2B 2E 4, ..., and A 3D 4, B 3E 4,... Then, a two stage shift register 75 temporarily stores in a sequential manner every pair of the image signals for one scanning line sequentially outputted as hereinabove described. For example, assuming that the shift register 75 stores the signals A and B, adders 76 perform interpolation arithmetic in the main scanning direction so that the data selector 77 sequentially outputs the signals A, 3A B 4, 2A 2B 4 and A 3B 4 from its output terminal. Then the shift register 75 stores the signals B and C thereby to sequentially output the subsequent signals B, 3B C 4, 2B 2C 4 and B 3C 4 on the first line. Thus, the interpolation in the main scanning direction is performed subsequentily to that in the vertical scanning direction, whereby the image signals are outputted similarly to those from the interpolation circuit as shown in Fig. 15. In the interpolation circuit as shown in Fig. 15, required for the first and second line memories 79 and 80 is capacity for storing the mainly interpolated image signals for one scanning line. On the other hand, the first and second line memories 79 and 80 of the interpolation circuit as shown in Fig. 19 are only required to store the image signals before interpolation for one scanning line, whereby the storage capacity is reduced to save the cost. Although the above description has been made on such case where the ratios of input resolution to output resolution are equivalent N M 4 in the main and vertical scanning directions, these ratios may be different from each other. Further, the interpolation may be performed only in either the main or vertical scanning direction. For example, the outputs from the data selector 77 as shown in Fig. 15 may be employed for interpolation only in the main scanning direction while the outputs from the data selector 89 as shown in Fig. 19 may be employed for interpolation only in the vertical scanning direction. Further, although the above embodiment has been described with respect to only one CCD, the present invention can be applied to a plurality of CCDs to further improve the input resolution thereof. In addition, the present invention is also applicable to processing of line originals, and in this case, input image signals may be processed in continuous tone by the present invention, to be subjected to binarization processing. An example of a concrete design of the second embodiment for the case where the input resolution is 1 4 of the output resolution is as follows The A D conversion speed required with the said CCD transfer clock frequency of 880 KHz is less than about 1.13 µs, and hence an image scanning recording apparatus for process can be manufactured by a commercialy available CCD of 5000 elements and an A D converter of 12 bits in a conversion speed of about 1 µs. When the CCD storage time is 20 ms corresponding to T₁, T₂,... in Fig. 5 and the number of CCD elements is 4384, the data can be read within the storage time with a CCD transfer frequency of about 220 KHz, whereas the above embodiment requires a CCD transfer clock frequency of about 880 KHz since the data for one scanning line are read in a 1 4 period of the storage time as shown at Fig. 16 b . When the storage time is to be matched with the read time to employ a lower transfer clock frequency, still another line memory may be provided for storaging image signals for one scanning line so that three line memories are circulated to sequentially store the input image signals line by line. Thus, interpolation in the vertical scanning line can be performed on the basis of image signals for two scanning lines inputted in advance during when image signals for a scanning line are inputted. As hereinabove described, the input resolution is set lower than the output resolution to perform interpolation in at least one of the main and vertical scanning directions with respect to the input image signals obtained in the said low resolution according to the second embodiment, advantages of which are as follows First, images can be recorded in high resolution for process through use of a commercially available CCD having a small number of elements and an AD converter of about 12 bits which is relatively slow in conversion speed. Second, an image scanning recording apparatus of high resolution for process can be manufactured with a small number of components at a low cost. Third, while adjustment of CCD locations and optical systems is difficult when a plurality of commercially available CCDs having a small number of elements for process are employed in connection, such adjustment can be completely omitted or reduced. Fourth, image signals in rough input resolution are interpolated to smooth the picture quality. In other words, effectively prevented is such a state that continuous pixels identical in gradation to each other are unexpectedly followed by those different in gradation to provide abrupt gradation changes in the reproduced image.