# Herbicidal composition.

## Abstract
A herbicidal composition which comprises as the active ingredients a a compound of the formula

## Claims
What is claimed is 1. A herbicidal composition which comprises as the active ingredients a a compound of the formula EMI18.1 wherein R is a hydrogen atom or a methyl group and b an s triazine compound of the formula EMI18.2 wherein X is a hydrogen atom or a cyano group, and an inert carrier or diluent. 2. The composition according to claim 1, wherein the weight proportion of the components a and b is from 1 2 to 200. 3. A method for controlling weeds which comprises applying a herbicidally effective amount of the composition according to claim 1 to the weeds. 4. The method according to claim 3, wherein the weeds are those germinated in the field of corn or wheat. 5. The method according to claim 3, wherein the total amount of the components a and b is from 0.3 to 40 grams per are.

## Description
HERBICIDAL COMPOSITION The present invention relates to a herbicidal composition. More particularly, it relates to a herbicidal composition comprising as the active ingredients a an isoindole compound of the formula EMI1.1 wherein R is a hydrogen atom or a methyl group, of which specific examples are those of the following formulas EMI1.2 and b an s triazine compound of the formula EMI2.1 wherein X is a hydrogen atom or a cyano group, of which specific examples are those of the following formulas EMI2.2 atraz ine andEMI2.3 cyanazine which exerts a highly enhanced herbicidal activity against a wide variety of weeds without causing any material phytotoxicity to crop plants, particularly to corn and wheat. In recent years, there have been used a great number of chemicals having herbicidal activities in order to exterminate or control the undesired vegetation of weeds.Since, however, weeds are diversified in kinds and grow over a long period of time, the herbicidal effects of conventional herbicidal agents are restricted in general. In view of such situation, the appearance of any herbicidal agent which exerts a strong herbicidal activity against a wide variety of weeds without any material phytotoxicity to crop plants has been highly demanded. As a result of the extensive study, it has now been found that the associated use of Compound I withCompound II by pre emergence or post emergence application produces a highly enhanced herbicidal activity against a wide variety of weeds without causing any material phytotoxicity to crop plants, particularly to corn or wheat. In comparison with the sole use of each of said active ingredients, enhancement of the herbicidal potency on such associated use is remarkable so that the active ingredients may be applied in smaller dosages. Further, the weedcontrol spectrum is greatly enlarged. Thus, a clear and definite synergistic effect is observed in said associated use. The herbicidal composition of the invention can exterminate or control a variety of weeds, i.e. dicotyledonous weeds such as wild buckwheat Polygonum convolvulus , pale smartweed Polygonum lapathifolium , common purslane Portulaca oleracea , common chickweed Stellaria media , common lambsquarters Chenopodium album , redroot pigweed Amaranthus retroflexus , wild mustard Sinapis arvensis , hemp sesbania Sesbania exaltata , sicklepod Cassia obtusifolia , velvetleaf Abutilon theophrasti , prickly sida S ida spinosa and field pansy Viola arvensis Ipomoea plants such as tall morningglory Pharbitis purpurea , black nightshade Solanum nigrum , persian speedwell Veronica persica , common cocklebur Xanthium strumarium , scentless chamomile Matricaria perforata and corn marigold Chrysanthemum segetum monocotyledonous weeds such as green foxtail Setaria viridis , southern crabgrass Digitaria ciliaris , goosegrass Eleusine indica , barnyardgrass Echinochloa crus galli , johnsongrass Sorghum halepense , quackgrass Agropyron repens , annual bluegrass Poa annua and blackgrass Alopeculus myosuroides , etc. Compound I is known to exert a herbicidal activity U.S. patent 4,484,9411. Compound 11 is known per se as a herbicide herbicide Handbook of the WeedScience Society of America, 5th Ed., p.30 and P.119 1983 . However, the associated use of Compound I with Compound II has never been attempted, and the production of said synergistic effect on such associated use has never been expected. The weight proportion of Compound I and Compound II in the composition of the invention may vary in a considerably broad range and is usually 1 2 to 200, preferably 1 4 to 100. In addition to the above active ingredients, the composition may contain a solid or liquid carrier or diluent. Any surface active or auxiliary agent may be also contained therein. Thus, the composition may be formulated in any conventional preparation form such as emulsifiable concentrate, wettable powder, suspension or granule. The total content of the active ingredients, i.e. Compound I and Compound II , may be from 0.5 to 90 by weight, preferably from 2 to 80 by weight. As the solid carrier or diluent, there may be used kaolin clay, attapulgite clay, bentonite, terra alba, pyrophyllite, talc, diatomaceous earth, calcite, wallnut shell powder, urea, ammonium sulfate, synthetic hydrated silica, etc. Examples of the liquid carrier or diluent are aromatic hydrocarbons e.g. xylene, methylnaphthalene , alcohols e.g. isopropanol, ethylene glycol, cellosolve , ketones e.g. acetone, cyclohexanone, isophorone , vegetable oils e.g. soybean oil, cotton seed oil , dimethylsulfoxide, acetonitrile, water, etc. The surface active agent used for emulsification, dispersion or spreading may be any of the anionic and nonionic type of agents. Examples of the surface active agent include alkylsulfates, alkylarylsulfonates, dialkylsulfosuccinates, phosphates of polyoxyethylenealkylaryl ethers, polyoxyethylene alkyl ethers, polyoxyethylene alkylaryl ethers, polyoxyethylene polyoxypropylene block copolymers, sorbitan fatty acid esters, polyoxyethylene sorbitan fatty acid esters, etc. Examples of the auxiliary agents include ligninsulfonates, sodium alginate, polyvinyl alcohol, gum arabic, CMC carboxymethyl cellulose , PAP isopropyl acid phosphate , etc. Practical embodiments of the composition are illustratively shown in the following Formulation Examples wherein part s are by weight. Formulation Example 1 Six parts of Compound 1 or Compound 2 , 44 parts of atrazin, 3 parts of calcium ligninsulfonate, 2 parts of sodium laurylsulfate and 45 parts of synthetic hydrated silica are well mixed and pulverized to obtain a wettable powder. Formulation Example 2 0.5 part of Compound 1 or Compound 2 , 4.5 parts by cyanazine, 14 parts of polyoxyethylene styrylphenyl ether, 6 parts of calcium dodecylbenzenesulfonic acid, 35 parts of xylene and 40 parts of isophorone are well mixed to obtain an emulsifiable concentrate. Formulation Example 3 0.2 part of Compound 1 or Compound 2 , 1,8 parts of atrazine, 1 part of synthetic hydrated silica, 2 parts of calcium ligninsulfonate, 30 parts of bentonite and 65 parts of kaolin clay are well mixed and pulverized. The resulting powder is admixed with water and dried to obtain granules. Formulation Example 4 Two parts of Compound 1 or Compound 2 , 23 parts of cyanazine, 3 parts of polyoxyethylene sorbitan monooleate, 3 parts of CMC and 69 parts of water are mixed and pulverized until the particle size of the composition become less than 5 microns to obtain suspensions. A composition comprising Compound I andCompound II thus formulated is useful for pre emergence control of undesired weeds by soil treatment or post emergence control of undesired weeds by foliar treatment. These treatments include the application to the soil surface prior to or after the transplanting or the incorporation into the soil. The foliar treatment may be effected by spraying the composition containing Compound I and Compound II over the top of plants. The direct application may also be adopted. In order to improve the herbicidal activity, the composition may be used with other herbicides. Besides, it may be used in combination with insecticides, acaricides, nematocides, fungicides, plant growth regulators, fertilizers, soil improvers, etc. The dosage of the active ingredients may vary depending on prevailing weather conditions, soil involved, formulation used, mixing proportion of each active ingredient, crop and weed species, etc. In general, however, the total amount of Compound I and Compound II is within a range of about 0.3 to 40 grams, preferably 1 to 20 grams, per are. In the foliar treatment, it may be applied in an amount of 1 to 5 grams. In the soil treatment, it may be applied in an amount of 2 to 15 grams. In case of the composition being formulated into an emulsifiable concentrate, wettable powder or suspension, it is normally diluted with water and applied over the top at a volume of about 1 to 10 liters per are to the soil or to the foliage of the crop plants or weeds which germinate or have germinated. The dilution may include, in addition to the above mentioned surface active agent, any spreading or auxiliary agent such as polyoxyethylene resin acid esters, ligninsulfonates, abietic acid, dinaphthylmethanedisulfonates, paraffin and the like. The practical herbicidal activity of the system of the invention will be explained in further detail with reference to the following Test Examples wherein the growth controlling percentage was determined by weighing the aerial parts of the test plants fresh weight and making calculation according to the following equation EMI8.1 tb Growth SEP Fresh SEP weight SEP of SEP test tb controlling SEP SEP z1 SEP 1 SEP plant SEP in SEP treated SEP plot tb percentage SEP 1 SEP Fresh SEP weight SEP of SEP test SEP x tb SEP SEP plant SEP in SEP untreated SEP plot tb The phytotoxicity to crop plants was visually observed. Test Example 1 Seeds of tall morningglory were sowed in a cylindrical plastic pot 10 cm diameter , 10 cm height filled with field soil, and the test plants were grown for 21 days in outdoors. A designed amount of the composition in the form of an emulsifiable concentrate formulated as inFormulation Example 2 was diluted with water containing a spreading agent and sprayed to the foliage of the test plants at a spray volume of 10 liters per are by the aid of a small hand sprayer. After 20 days cultivation, the growth controlling percentage was observed. The results are shown in Tables 1 1 and 1 2. At the time of treatment, the test plant was at the 3 to 4 leaf stage. Table 1 1EMI9.1 tb SEP Growth SEP controlling SEP activity SEP tb SEP Dosage SEP of SEP 0 SEP 0.01 SEP 0.02 SEP 0.04 SEP 0.08 SEP 0.16 tb SEP Compound SEP 1 tb SEP g a tb Dosage SEP of SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 5 SEP 22 SEP 41 SEP 75 SEP 94 tb atrazine SEP 0.5 SEP 7 SEP 29 SEP 53 SEP 84 SEP 93 SEP 100 tb SEP gila SEP 1 SEP 29 SEP 60 SEP 80 SEP 95 SEP 100 SEP 100 tb SEP 2 SEP 57 SEP 82 SEP 94 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 tb SEP 4 SEP 78 SEP 92 SEP 98 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 tb SEP 8 SEP 96 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 tb Table 1 2EMI9.2 tb SEP Growth SEP controlling SEP actiVity SEP tb SEP I SEP I SEP I tb SEP Dosage SEP of SEP 0 SEP 0.01 SEP 0.02 SEP 0.04 SEP 0.08 SEP 0.16 tb SEP Compound SEP 2 tb SEP g a tb I tb Dosage SEP of SEP O SEP 0 SEP 6 SEP 13 SEP 39 SEP 72 SEP 93 tb SEP atrazine SEP 0.5 SEP 7 SEP 28 SEP 48 SEP 70 SEP 91 SEP 100 tb SEP g a SEP 1 SEP 29 SEP 55 SEP 73 SEP 93 SEP 99 SEP 100 tb SEP 2 SEP 57 SEP 78 SEP 92 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 tb SEP 4 SEP 78 SEP 91 SEP 96 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 tb SEP 8 SEP 96 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 tb The above results were analyzed according to the isobar i.e. equivalent efficacy line method HideoChisaka Vol. 3, Herbicides, pages 109 116 1981 in NoyakuJikkenho Methods in Pesticide Science edited by JunichiFukami et al, Soft Science Inc., Tokyo based on theTammes s method Tammes, P.M.L. Neth. J. Plant Path., 70, 73 80 1964 .Namely, several combinations of the compositions having different mixing ratios of Compound 1 or 2 and atrazine but exerting the same level of growth controlling effect, for example, 90 growth control, were plotted in a graph so as to readily determine a synergistic effect, an arithmetic effect or a competitive effect. In case of exhibiting the synergistic effect, the equivalent efficacy line as plotted is shown below the arithmetic efficacy line. As shown in Figs. 1 and 2 of the accompanying drawing wherein the abscissa indicates the dosage of atrazine and the ordinate indicates the dosage of Compound I or 2 , the equivalent efficacy line i.e. solid line of 90 growth control of tall morningglory is located under the arithmetic efficacy line i.e. dotted line , from which it is understood that the associated use of Compound 1 or 2 and atrazine in a certain mixing ratio produces the synergistic effect. Test Example 2 Seeds of velvetleaf, redroot pigweed, black nightshade, tall morningglory, hemp sesbania and corn were sowed in a vat 33 x 23 cm2 area , ill cm height filled with field soil, and the test plants were grown for 21 days in a greenhouse. A designed amount of the composition in the form of an emulsifiable concentrate formulated as inFormulation Example 2 was diluted with water containing a spreading agent and sprayed to the foliage of the test plants at a spray volume of 5 liters per are by the aid of a small hand sprayer. After 20 days cultivation, the growth controlling percentage was observed. The results are shown in Tables 2 1 and 2 2. At the time of treatment, the test plants were in general at the 1 to 4.5 leaf stage, although the growing stage varied depending on each species. Table 2 1 EMI11.1 Compound SEP Dosage SEP Growth SEP controlling SEP percentage SEP PhytoNo. SEP g a SEP SEP toxicity tb Velvet SEP Redroot SEP Black SEP Tall SEP Hemp SEP Corn tb leaf SEP pigweed SEP night SEP morning SEP sesbania tb shade SEP glory tb Atrazine SEP 1 SEP 15 SEP 22 SEP 23 SEP 22 SEP 30 SEP None tb Cyanazine SEP 1 SEP 19 SEP 15 SEP 26 SEP 24 SEP 33 SEP None tb Compound SEP 1 SEP 0.06 SEP 63 SEP 75 SEP 72 SEP 65 SEP 57 SEP None tb Compound SEP 1 SEP 0.06 SEP SEP 1 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 98 SEP 98 SEP None tb tb Atrazine tb Compound SEP 1 SEP 0.06 SEP SEP 1 SEP 100 SEP 98 SEP 100 SEP 99 SEP 100 SEP None tb tb Cyanazine tb Table 2 2 EMI12.1 Compound SEP Dosage SEP Growth SEP controlling SEP percentage SEP PhytoNo. SEP g a SEP SEP toxicity tb Velvet SEP Redroot SEP Black SEP Tall SEP Hemp SEP Corn tb leaf SEP pigweed SEP night SEP morning SEP sesbania tb shade SEP glory tb Atrazine SEP 1 SEP 15 SEP 22 SEP 23 SEP 22 SEP 30 SEP None tb Cyanazine SEP 1 SEP 19 SEP 15 SEP 26 SEP 24 SEP 33 SEP None tb Compound SEP 2 SEP 0.09 SEP 95 SEP 74 SEP 70 SEP 70 SEP 60 SEP None tb Compound SEP 2 SEP 0.09 SEP SEP 1 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 99 SEP None tb tb Aztrazine tb Compound SEP 2 SEP 0.09 SEP SEP 1 SEP 100 SEP 98 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP None tb tb Cyanazine tb Test Example 3 Seeds of barnyardgrass, green foxtail, velvetleaf, tall morningglory, black nightshade, sicklepod and corn were sowed in a vat 33 x 23 cm2 area , 11 cm height filled with field soil and covered with the soil of 1 to 2 cm thick. A designed amount of the composition in the form of a wettable powder formulated as in Formulation Example 1 was diluted with water and sprayed to the soil surface at a spray volume of 10 liters per are by the aid of a small hand sprayer. After 20 days cultivation in a greenhouse, the growth controlling percentage was observed. The results are shown in Tables 3 1 and 3 2. Table 3 1 EMI14.1 Compound SEP Dosage SEP Growth SEP controlling SEP percentage SEP PhytoNo. SEP g a SEP SEP toxicity tb SEP Barn SEP Green SEP Velvet SEP Tall SEP Black SEP Sickle SEP Corn tb yard SEP foxtall SEP leaf SEP morning SEP night SEP pod tb grass SEP glory SEP shade tb Atrazine SEP 8 SEP 25 SEP 20 SEP 35 SEP 44 SEP 45 SEP 40 SEP None tb Cyanazine SEP 8 SEP 33 SEP 34 SEP 41 SEP 42 SEP 35 SEP 30 SEP None tb Compound SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 30 SEP 24 SEP 97 SEP 39 SEP 84 SEP 33 SEP None tb Compound SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP SEP 8 SEP 92 SEP 90 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 96 SEP None tb tb Atrazine tb Compound SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP SEP 8 SEP 98 SEP 98 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 95 SEP None tb tb Cyanazine tb Table 3 2 EMI15.1 Compound SEP Dosage SEP Growth SEP controlling SEP percentage SEP PhytoNo. SEP g a SEP SEP toxicity tb SEP Barn SEP Green SEP Velvet SEP Tall SEP Black SEP Sickle SEP Corn tb yard SEP foxtail SEP leaf SEP morning SEP night SEP pod tb grass SEP glory SEP shade tb Atrazine SEP 8 SEP 25 SEP 20 SEP 35 SEP 44 SEP 45 SEP 40 SEP None tb Cyanazine SEP 8 SEP 33 SEP 34 SEP 41 SEP 42 SEP 35 SEP 30 SEP None tb Compound SEP 2 SEP 1 SEP 8 SEP 29 SEP 26 SEP 94 SEP 38 SEP 86 SEP 30 SEP None tb Compound SEP 2 SEP 1 SEP SEP 8 SEP 90 SEP 91 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 95 SEP None tb tb Atrazine tb Compound SEP 2 SEP 1 SEP SEP 8 SEP 93 SEP 96 SEP 100 SEP 98 SEP 100 SEP 95 SEP None tb tb Cyanazine tb Test Example 4 Seeds of common chickweed, wild mustard, persian speedwell, wild buckwheat and wheat were sowed in a vat 33 x 23 cm area , Ii cm height filled with field soil and covered with the soil of 1 to 2 cm thick. A designed amount of the composition in the form of a wettable powder formulated as in Formulation Example 1 was diluted with water and sprayed to the soil surface at a spray volume of 10 liters per are by the aid of a small hand sprayer. After 27 days cultivation in a greenhouse, the growth controlling percentage was observed. The results are shown in Tables 4 1 and 4 2. Table 4 1EMI16.1 tb Compound SEP Dosage SEP Growth SEP controlling SEP percentage SEP Phyto tb No. SEP g a SEP SEP toxicity SEP tb SEP Common SEP Wild SEP Persian SEP Wild SEP SEP Wheat tb SEP chick SEP imistard SEP speed SEP buck SEP tb weed SEP w ll SEP wheat tb Atrazine SEP SEP 2 SEP 55 SEP T SEP SEP 43 SEP SEP 26 SEP SEP 21 SEP r SEP None tb Compound SEP 1 SEP 0.25 SEP 37 SEP 40 SEP 72 SEP 66 SEP None tb Compound SEP 1 SEP 0.25 SEP SEP 2 SEP 100 SEP 98 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP None tb SEP tb Aztrazine tb Table 4 2EMI17.1 tb Campund SEP Dosage SEP Grcth SEP controlling SEP percentage SEP Phyto tb No. SEP g a SEP SEP toxicity tb SEP Common SEP Wild SEP Persian SEP Wild SEP Wheat tb SEP chick SEP mustard SEP buck tb SEP weed SEP well SEP wheat tb Atrazine SEP 2 SEP 55 SEP 43 SEP 26 SEP 21 SEP None tb Compound SEP 2 SEP 0.25 SEP 35 SEP 42 SEP 71 SEP 62 SEP None tb Compound SEP 2 SEP 0.25 SEP SEP 2 SEP 98 SEP 98 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP None tb SEP tb Atrazine tb