# Method of cutting sheet material.

## Abstract
In accordance with the invention a method in wich N.C. machine is provided to cut sheet material like To feed material from the roll to the cutting area a motorized support is provided, in the way to prevent the material from stretching or being distorted before being cut in the table. In order to have maximum througput from the machine, In each of the cutting and removing areas is an X Y computer controlled assembly. In the cutting area In the removing area is placed another X Y computer controlled assembly with a head provided with a labelling and a suction device in order to automatically label and pick up the cut parts and bring them to a storage area. Since normally the minimum length of the marker necesary to make a complete suit is about 5 to 7 m., and, due to the simultaneity of the cutting and removing operation the lenght of the two areas must be the same, a machine to be able to cut the entire marker at once would result extremely long. To avoid the problem, the sistem we are dealing with is provided with a control to cut the marker by sections, normally named windows but, and this is very important, variable windows in order to cut the patterns falling completely into the cutting area. That is why here, is enough to have the length of the window a little bit bigger that the biggest part to be cut.

## Claims
1. A process for cutting sections out of a web of material using a cutting table provided with a vacuum producing installation for holding the spread material firmly against the cutting table, and a carriage movable horizontally and transversely of the cutting table and forming the carrier of a cutting tool, the movements of which along pattern specifications being controlled by a data processor in which programmed cutting instructions are stored, characterized by the application of a plasma arc as a cutting tool and a gas permeable endless conveyor as feeding means to feed the web or layer to the cutting section and supporting said layer said support is preferably a special brush with steel filaments of approximately 0.3 mm diameter, 30 mm. log with a density of 75 wires cm², said conveyor being advanced step by step over a distance greater than the greatest movement in the X direction of the plasma arc cutter to complete a part, said cutter being moved along the determined pattern lines after completion of an advance step of the conveyor, i.e. when said conveyor is held stationary.

## Description
In Fig. 1 we have a general sketch of the machine in which is possible to identify the feeding assembly 10, cutting machine 12 with the X Y cutter assembly 14, the power supply and controller 18 and the labelling and removing device 20. The raw material can be avaible in the roll form or in laminate form, as we mentioned before, but for the purpose of this description, we suppose it will be in a roll in order to make a reference to the features of the feeding group. One of the main caracteristic of cloth or similar materials is that they are deformable and then if a part is fed over the cutting surface with some residual stretching tension, due to friction between the material and the surface, the former will retain some deformation and if in this situation a part is cut, when it is taken off the cutting surface it will reduce its dimensions and consecuently it will not fit the form you wish. That is why in our enboidment we have the feeding mechanism 10 provided by a motor 22 in order to move the roll of material. Between this and the cutter 12 there is an isolating loop 24 in the way not to have any tension of the cloth during the motion of the conveyor 26, just the weigth of the loop that can be very small. For this purpose, when the conveyor 26 is moving in the indicated direction Fig. 2 , the loop 24 will decrease until the devices 28 and 30, for instance a photocell, will be activated and in turn will activate the motor 22 to make the loop fall until it cover the other pair of sensor 32 and 34, normally uncovered, causing the deactivation of the motor 22. When the machine is at the begining of the operation during loading , a small quantity of material is led over the loading area 36 Fig. 3 y 4 and the vacuum generator 40 switched on in the cage 42 and through the cutting surface of the conveyor 26 made of an air permeable material, is produced a vacuum This gentle vacuum will suffice not to permit any misplacement between conveyor and material and the machine will be loaded by mean of the same movement of the conveyor. A special brush like 46 surface has proved to be an excelent cutting surface the filaments are steel of 0.3 mm diameter a approximately 30 mm. long, with a density of 75 wires cm² this is due to the dispersive effect over the gas made by the top side of a brush with thicker wire, and as a result there is not a clean cut. At both sides of the machine, moves the chains 44 Fig. 5,6 this chains moves around the toothed wheels 48 at both ends of the machine. Each wheel 48 has a corresponding pair on the other side of the table and mounted rigidly with it, but each pair moves free. There is no motor to move the conveyor because this is done by means of the X carriage 49 as will be explained lather what is necesary is some kind of brake 50 to be sure there is no motion of the conveyor during cutting operation, but permitting free motion when the conveyor is engaged to the X carriage. For this purpose, the brake 50 Fig. 7 has some actuator 52 in the manner that, during cutting, the brake 50 brakes the conveyor 26 on the part 54 the same part is used to engage the conveyor to the X carriage 49 the brake 50 is suported by the fixed structure of the machine. A similar part 56 to the brake 50 is mounted on the X carriage 49 Fig. 5 . When is necesary to move the conveyor, in order to put new material into the cutting area, the actuator 52 release the brake 50 fixed to the X carriage so when this moves, the conveyor moves exactly the same amount and, as will be seen, the controller will be able to correct exactly this amount in the coordinates sent to the position servos of X an Y carriages. Over the cutting area 60, is moved the X Y assembly 14. As indicated in more detail in Fig. 8, the X Y assembly is composed of the X carriage 49 and Y carriage 62 the X carriage 49 is placed perpendicularly to the slides 64 and then the Y carriage path is perpendicular to the X carriage path. Both axis have the same principle so we describe just the X axis. The X motor 66 is placed in one end of the cutting area and is a group of motor 66, tachometer 68 and position transducer 70 is the actuator of a position servo loop. The motor moves by means of a reduction gear 72 74 the shaft 76 which cross the cutting table at both end of the shaft are the toothed pulleys 78, 80 around wich are the belts 82, 84 in tension by means of the pulleys 86, 88. The carriage 49 is moved by the belts 82, 84 to which it is bolted. Mounted on the X carriage 49 are the Y motor 90, tachometer 92, position transducer 94, gear 96, 98, drive pulley 100, belt 102 and tension pulley 104 to move the Y carriage 62. The signal to comand the X and Y loop comes from the controller 18, as will be explained later. As a cutting tool, a plasma jet is used. In Fig. 9 is possible to see, as ilustration purposes, a section of the plasma generation head 106. In the area between anode 108 and catode 110 an electric discharge is produced which heats the argon and or nitrogen gas introduced into the head, through the inlet 112. The discharge chamber is cooled by circulating water 114. The result is a supersonic jet about 2 Mach and temperature in the range 10000 20000 C, jet diameter is about 0.7 mm and 5 10 mm long. The power in the jet is up to 3 Kw. There is no fire risk as the jet is created from inert gas. This tool, contrary to other already used devices like lasers, allows an extremely easy management of the cutting beam, since this is formed directly in the cutting head 106, by mean of pressurized inert gas conducted with simple hose running in the guide 128 and 129, and brought at plasma state by mean of an electric arc generated in the head itself. Being the plasma jet generator a known invention the essence of this invention is its application on the described X Y n c machine for the cutting of sheet material up to a thickness of 15 mm. The plasma jet beam can be interrupted in response to control panel 18 signals, in order not to cut when the motion of the head 106 is in a segment that must not be cut. Another advantage of this application is that, contrary to lasers, there are no invisible radiations dangerous for the machine operators. Also within 10 mm from the head nozzle the plasma is completely dissipated, minimizing any possible risk of burning. The labelling and removing device 20 is an assembly similar to the X Y assembly 14 outlined before but in place of the plasma jet head 106, on the Y carriage 62 is mounted a labelling head 148 and a holding bar 150. As can be seen in the Fig. 11, over the Y carriage and in one side of the X carriage 49 is the labelling assembly 148 it is a standard label dispenser like the supermarket ones, to put a label over each cut part to the other side of the X carriage is the holding bar 150. Mainly it is a toothed bar, sliding on bearings in a direction paralell to the Y axis and with a sucker 152 and 153 on each of its end the length of the bar must be almost the same of the transverse of the cutting area, and the suckers have a small motion perpendicular to the cutting surface, for instance by means of a small pneumatic cilinder the bar motion is controlled by another motor, like the X or Y mover. The way that this removing device works is as follows. First of all, the controller knows all the cut part coordinates and it can calculate the rectangle that enclose the part, and then the mid point defined as in Fig. 12 normally this point will be into the part. If not, the problem is a little bit more difficult but possible to solve, and we are not specially interested on it. Then we will imagine the cutting area divided into two sections by an imaginary line 152 paralell to the X axis if the midpoint 154 of the part to be taken out is for instance in the lower section of the removing area, then the bar 150 put the sucker 152 in the nearest position to the Y carriage 62, then the X Y carriage move to put the sucker 152 just over the midpoint 154, the sucker is lowered by the cilinder not shown and once the part is taken, then de Y carriage 62 moves to the lower side of the table lower side in Fig. 11 and once it reaches the limit, then the bar 152 moves to leave the part over the stock area 160 this stock area is preferably a conveyor, then it is moving in the sense shown in Fig. 3. Finally, the machine controller 18, has a structure like the one shown in Fig. 13. Normally a host computer 160 receives data from a data base 162 and send them to the machine controller 18. Into the controller, the main CPU 164, receives data from the computer 160 then it manages the microprocessor of each part of the machine. This parts are the plasma jet control 168, the feeding assembly control 170, the cutting assembly control 172, the labelling and removing device control 174 and the control panel 176. During working cycle, mainly the cutter assembly 14 with the plasma jet 16 works in paralell with the feeding device 10 and the printing and removing device 20, then information for this independient areas are sent from the main CPU 164 to each controller when is necesary to move the conveyor, the main CPU 164 wait for the last device to complete its task and then send the order to move the conveyor this is made by the cutting controller 172 first engaging the brake 56, then desengaging the brake 50, then moving the X carriage 49 the distance ordered by the main CPU 164 just until the next part with smaller X coordinate not cut reaches the frontier of the cutting area, see Fig. 14 . Note that this motion in the X direction, must be subtracted from all the X coordinates sent from the host computer 160 to the controller 18, and this is very easely done by the main CPU 164 wich, knows all the data. As can be seen in Fig. 15, the cutting assy control 172 is composed of a microprocesor 180, the line generator 182 and the position servo loop 184. In automatic mode the microprocesor 180, receives data froom the CPU 164, decode and load them into the line generator registers in order to generate the line. When this is done, it send a signal 173 to turn the plasma jet on and tell the line generator that pulses must be sent to the servocontroller 184. The line generator Fig. 16 has 4, 16 bits registers the 186 and 188 registers are to store the number of pulses are necesary move in the X and Y directions, the 190 register is to store the number of pulses are necessary to move during acceleration and the 192 register is to store the number of pulses are necesary to move at constant speed. With this data, the line generator is able to send to the servo controller 184 the exact number of pulses for each axe X and Y signals 171 and 179 , with its sign signals 185 and 187 and just in time if for instance the line has a slope of 30 , in other words X 2 Y, the line generator send one pulse to the Y axis each two pulses sent to the X axis. The information mentioned before, reaches the buffer 169 of the line generator 182 throught the 8 bits DATA BUS 185 all register s load control is done by the CONTROL BUS 187. The motion s direction of the motors 195 SIGN Y, 197 SIGN X is represented by the most significative bit of the 186 and 188 registers. In more detail, the line generator 182 has the following blocks Fig. 16 the acceleration ramp generator 189, the ALU 191 and the sequencer 193. The ramp generator 189 varies the frecuency of the clock signal 194 that control the sequencer 193. With this frecuency variations is possible to change the time betwen pulses in order to accelerate or decelerate. The ALU 191 makes all the necesary arithmetic operations to generate the lines and the sequencer 193 generate signal, to control the ALU and ramp generator cards and send the X and Y pulses. In order to explain the sequencer 193, it is first of all neccesary to define the signals reaching and leaving it. C1, C2, C3, C4 are the four cycles of the sequencer 193. 1, 2, 3, 4 are the four phases each cycle is divided. L S is the signal indicating to the X,Y shift registers 196, 198 if they must load or shift. Shift CK clock signal for the shift registers, 196, 198. LAC Pulse to load the accumulator, 202. LCONT Pulse to load the ALU counter 220. RCONT Pulse to decrement by one the ALU counter 220. Lbc Pulse to load the state bistable of the sequencer 193 this bistable indicates if the sequencer 193 must stop or not. Lbs Pulse to load the state bistable of the sequencer 193 this bistable indicates if the prior subtraction result is positive or negative. Lbd Pulse to load the state bistable of the sequencer 193 this bistable indicates which is the dominant axis. B1 signal to control the multiplexer 204 A2 signal to control the multiplexer 206 A3 y B3 signal to control the multiplexer 208 SUM RES signal to control the ALU 200 to indicate if an addition or subtraction is going to be done. STOP signal to tell to the microprocessor 180 that one line is finished. START signal generated by the microprocessor 180 indicating to the line generator 182 that a straight line shall start. Such line data are stored into the LATCH registers 186, 188. PCERO signal generated by the ALU 191 when the counter 220 reaches the zero value. PSIGNO signal generated by the ALU 200 indicating the result of the arithmetic operation just finished. PX Pulse to the X axis. PY Pulse to the Y axis. Fig. 17 shows a sequencer cronogram for the case in which the state bistable of the dominant axe BD has a 0. The sequencer 193 has 4 cicles C1 C4 and each cycle is divided in 4 fases 1 4 . The START signal given by the microprocessor 180, start up the line generation process. Firs of all, the cicle C1 is performed, and the necessary signals to activate the following operations are given After C1, C2 is started and this cycle is repeated as many times as pulses are necessary to be done by the dominant axe. During this cycle, the following operations are done a The subtraction between the value of the accumulator 202 and twice the number of pulses the slave axe must move this value is stored in one of the two shift registers 196, 198. The signal B1 goes to low level and A2 at the level indicated by the bistable B.D. During 3 Lbs and LAC are activated in order to load both the accumulator 202 and the state bistable B.S. If BS 0 the next cycle is C3, while the following operations are done If BS 1 the next cycle is C4 this cycle is similar to C3 but in this case a pulse is sent to each axis. If, after a cycle C3 or C4 is completed, BC indicates that the counter 220 has not reached the zero value, then the process is repeated starting from the C2 cycle. In case counter has reached zero value, the sequencer 193 is stopped and the STOP signal is generated. The logic equations governing this signal are Shift CK 01.C1 04.C1 Lac 02.C4 03.C2 03.C1 Lcon 03.C1 rcont 02.C3 03.C4 Lbc 03.C3 04.C4 Lbs 02.C4 03.C2 Lbd 02.C1 B1 C1 A2 C1 C2. C4.BD A3 BD.C1 B3 .C1 SUM RES C4 Basically, the ALU 191 is a 16 bits ALU 200 with accumulator 202 and X,Y shift registers 196, 198. The multiplexer 204 and 206 enable the ALU 200 to choose the operands, and the multiplexer 208 permits to load the accumulator with the information of any one of the shift register 196 and 198 or the ALU 200 output. As we told before, the LATCH X and Y registers 186 and 188 are to interface with the microproceser 180 with this two registers, is possible for the microprocessor and line generator to work in an asincronous way. The ALU 191, has got a counter 220 which, is in charge of counting the number of pulses given to the dominant axe. We understand for dominant axe of one given segment Δ S whose components along the axis are Δ X, Δ Y, the one with longer length, and for slave axe, the smaller one. When the counter has reached the total number of pulses in the dominant axe, it send a signal to the sequencer 193 throught the line 221 this is the way for the sequencer to know that the segment has ben completed. The line generator, executes the following algorithm The ALU 200, tell to the sequencer 193 the sign of the arithmetic operation made in 1 throught the line 222 in this way the sequencer gives a pulse only in the dominant axe 2 or in both axes 3 . Now ramp generator 189 is explained. Each four cicles of the clock 194, the sequencer 193 send a signal P