# Frame type flexible axle suspension system.

## Abstract
Present invention is a frame type flexible axle suspension system designated for use on automobiles. This system mainly consists of two parallel spring steel shafts 12, 14 , ends of which pass through a pair of link stands 16, 18 which are perpendicular to the spring steel shafts, thus form a frame construction 10 . The Link stands are connected with elevation shaft or drive shaft or wheel shaft. In addition, on each steel shaft there is a pair of elastic sleeves which are fastened on the spring steel shaft by means of hoops 24 . Supporting stand 26 is connected with the hoops at one end and fixed on chassis or mainbeam of automobile at the other end. This frame type flexible axle suspension system can be used for front and rear axles of automobiles. It is also possible to select optimal combination of parameters of parts according to needs.

## Claims
1. A suspension system designated for use on front and rear axles of automobiles, characterized in that the suspension system is a frame type flexible axle suspension system including two parallel spring steel shafts 12, 14 and a pair of link stands 16, 18 said link stands being perpendicular to and being passed though by the end parts of said spring steel shafts respectively, said spring steel shafts and said link stands being combined to form a frame construction 10 , said link stands being connected with elevation shaft or drive shaft or wheel shaft, said suspension system further including elastic sleeves 20, 21, 22, 23, being fastened on said spring steel shafts 12, 14 , respectively by means of hoops 24 , and supporting stand 26 being connected with hoops and fixed on chassis or main beam of automobile 40 .

## Description
The present invention relates to a frame type flexible axle suspension system used as an independent suspension system in a drive system of a motor vehicle, or an automobile in particular. It is well known that suspension system is one of important subassemblies of a modern automobile. It consists of elastic elements, buffer, guiding mechanism and stabilizing rod. Suspension system greatly affects smoothness and stability of drive of an automobile, and also has influence on many performance features of an automobile, such as roadability, fuel economy etc. Therefore, improvements and patent applications on suspension system have been proposed and submitted again and again. Presently there exists a great variety of types of suspension system. According to the form of guiding mechanism it can be classified into two groups dependent and independent suspension system. Independent suspension system can be further calssified into a number of types. Up to now following types have been developed dual cross arm type, single cross arm type, longitudinal arm type, single oblique arm type and sliding column with swinging arm type. There is one common feature among all above mentioned independent suspension systems, that is, various functions of a suspension system, such as guiding, buffering, shock absorbing, stabilizing functions, are performed by separate related mechanisms or elements. These mechanisms and elements are then combined togther to form an integral suspension system. Based on this principle of thoughts people focused their attention on improving suspension system. Problem of coordinating the improved mechanism with whole suspension to form an integral unit was considered afterwards. For example, in order to improve guding function of a suspension, only guiding mechanism of a suspension was improved, thus single and dual arm types were developed. Such kind of principle of thoughts brings about a lot of problems for suspension system Above mentioned constructional problems result in a larger amount of work during manufacturing process, cause throuble and inconvenience in assembly and maintenence, and at the same time constitute one of reasons for high cost of automobiles. The objective of present invention is to propose a totally new and unique independent suspension system, that is, a frame type flexible axle suspension system. It integrates guiding, stabilizing, buffering functions and hinges of a suspension system into a simplified frame construction. This suspension s coming out solves above mentioned problems which exist in presently used suspension systems. The frame type flexible axle suspension system of present invention includes two parallel shafts made of spring steel. Ends of these shafts pass through a pair of link stands which are perpendicular to spring steel shafts, thus form a frame construction. Link stands are connected with elevation shaft or driving shaft or wheel shaft. Four elastic sleeves are fixed on spring steel shafts by hoops. supporting stands are connected with hoops and fixed on chassis of automobile. Here the elastic sleeves can stand both the normal pressure in the tangent direction and the shearing force in the traverse direction, thus ensure a secure connection of suspension system with vehicle body. Following is a description of the principle of this frame type flexibly axle suspension system. Guiding function see Fig. 4 and Fig. 5 When a wheel accepts a vertical force from the ground in direction F , due to the fact that the spring steel shaft has elasticity, wheel will swivel around the center A or B in direction N within a radius L or l , thus guiding function is performed. Proper adjustment of the distance between A and B may change the distance from wheel to A orB , thus may adjust the radius within which the wheel can swivel in direction N to achieve the objective of adjusting guiding radius. Link stands are rigidly connected with spring steel shafts through conic holes and nuts. As a result, when a wheel accepts a longitudinal force in direction G in Fig. 4, such as traction force and braking force , the wheel cannot be staggered in direction M, thus smothness of drive is ensured. In summary, it can be seen that this construction performs guiding function successfully and makes itself an independent suspension system. Buffering function When a wheel accepts a ground impact, it transfers the impact to elastic metal frame which is fixed on supporting components connected with vehicle body through rubber elastic sleeves. Since elastic deformation of spring steel shaft absorbs impact energy, the spring steel shaft as an elastic element performs the buffering function. Stabilizing function In order to improve smoothness of drive of an automobile, the rigidity of elastic elments in a suspension system should be properly reduced. However, when an automobile makes a turn, centrifugal force causes the automobile too large a slant that reduces its stability. Therefore, automobiles mostly cars with independient suspension system are to have an additional spring steel shaft which, passing through vehicle body, is fixed on wheel shaft on both sides, thus in a certain degree enhances rigidity of outer suspension system during a turn, decreases the slant of vehicle body and improves stability. The frame type flexible axle suspension system of present invention, however, does not need additional stabilizing shaft device, because when an automobile makes a turn, the outer spring steel shaft deforms, thus affects bending deformation of whole spring steel shaft, causes a spontaneous deformation of inner spring steel shaft. Therefore, outer and inner sides are lowering almost simultaneously during a turn, slant angle decreases one half at the least, thus stability is ensured. This unique suspension system is of a simple frame construction. It combines guiding, buffering, stabilizing functions of present complex suspension system into a simplified system. Moreover, it has following effects manufacturing process of suspension elements is simplified, the amount of parts, especially connecting elements such as hinges, is decreased, assembly and maintenence becomes easier, break down rate is lowered. This independent suspension system makes it possible to use basically common construction for front and rear axle suspension. Therefore, it further simplifies manufacturing process, reduces the amount of assembly work, at the same time favours repair and maintenence work. Moreover, shapes and sizes of parts in this construction, as well as their relative positions can be adjusted in a certain range. It helps to find an ideal combination of parameters, thus it can conveniently satisfy different requirements on suspension functions for different vehicles. Therefore, this suspension system can be considered as a flexible suspension system which can be adjusted flexibly and conveniently to satisfy requirements of vehicles of various different types. Hereunder is a detailed description together with attached drawings of present invention. Requirements to various components are described separately together with attached drawings as follows. In a flexible axle suspension system the material of spring steel shafts 12, 14 is very important. Spring steel with good mechanical characteristics and high elasticity strength, such as manganese steel and silicon manganese steel, are to be selected. In particular, spring steel 65Mn and 60 Si₂Mn are more commonly used materials. Shape, section size and length of spring steel shafts 12, 14 are to be selected based on differences in type, construction and loading capacity of automobile. In one and the same frame construction 10 , two spring steel shafts 12, 14 must meet the requirement of parallelism. however, shapes, section sizes and lengths may be identical or not identical. Depending on concrete design specification, it can be adjusted in a certain range. Section of steel shaft may have various forms, such as round, oval, square, rectangle etc. If spring steel shafts 12, 14 have round sections, then for a mini automobile their diameter should not be less than 8 mm., For a ordinary car or a passenger cargo dual purpose truck their diameter should be more than 20 mm. Two ends of spring steel shafts 12, 14 are to pass through individually two conic holes of a pair of link stands 16 and 18 which are perpendicular to the steel shafts to form a frame construction 10 see Fig. 1 . The steel shafts should be firmly connected with the link stands. There should not be any traverse displacement between them. For example, at the end of spring steel shaft there may be a fine thread folowed by a conic thransition part, the conicity of which should match with the conicity of holes 48, 50 on the link stands. Then the steel shaft is fixed on link stands by nuts. The distance h see Fig. 4 between two parallel spring steel shafts in the frame construction 10 , i.e. the distance h see Fig. 14, 15, 16 between centers of two holes on link stands, through which steel shafts are to pass, should be selected according to vehicle body structure. The distance between two parallel steel shafts should not be less than one fifth of wheel diameter D, that is , h 1 5D. In brief, by changing shape, section size, length of each of two spring steel shafts 12, 14 and distance between them it is possible to change guiding feature, natural frequency, stability of this suspension system , thus to find an ideal combination of parameters to meet compound requirements to suspension system of certain kind of automobile. Due to the fact that this suspension system is merely a simple frame construction, such adjustment is relatively easy and simple. Link stands 16, 18 play an important role in flexible axle suspension system of automobile. It not only connects spring steel shafts to form a frame construction 10 , but also connects suspension system with drive shaft 32 or 44 or elevation shaft 30 or wheel shaft 62 , thus comprises an important part of chassis of automobile. Link stands 16, 18 are perpendicular to spring steel shafts and disposed at both ends of this pair of steel shafts. They are integrated with steel shafts by fasteners, thus a rigid frame construction 10 is formed. Link stands are essentially plate stands see Fig. 12, 13 . Mainly, on link stands there are two conic holes 48, 50 for spring steel shafts to pass through and a connecting part 57 for drive shaft 32 or 44 or elevation shaft 30 or wheel shaft 62 to be connected. Conic holes match with conic parts of spring steel shaft ends. At ends of steel shafts there are sections with fine thread, right next to above mentioned conic parts of steel shafts. Thus, it is possible to integrate steel shafts with link stands by fasteners such as nuts. Shape and size of link stands may be adjusted according to requirements. By making appropriate changes in shape and size of link stands according to concrete difference between front and rear axle constructions it is possible to apply the suspension system simultaneously to front and rear axles. Positions of two conic holes 48, 50 on link stands are to be selected according to characteristics of automobiles of different types. As shown in Fig. 14, two holes are located above the connecting part of link stands. It is suitable for use in automobiles with good roadibility. In Fig. 15 two connection lines of each center of hole with center of respecitive connecting part of link stand are almost perpendicular. It is suitable for use in automobile construction where its disposition hinders engine or fuel tank. In Fig. 16 two holes are arranged at one and the same side of connecting part of link stand. It is suitable for use in automobile with special construction. It is also possible to use various constructions of link stands to arrange relative positions of two holes to avoid wheel interference. However, no matter how to arrange the disposition, two conditions are to be met 1. Positions of conic holes in each pair of link stands should ensure that two spring steel shafts are paralle. 2. Angle between the plane formed by two parallel steel shafts and the water level of chassis should not be larger than 60 , that is, should not be in a range nearly vertical to the ground. Connecting part of link stand 56 is to be designed and selected according to concrete construction and application case. In a front drive front axle suspension system its drive shaft 32 may be located below frame structue 10 as shown in Fig. 2 , may also be located above frame structure 10 as shown in Fig. 4 and Fig. 6 , wherein connecting part of link stand 56 has to have holes to connect elevation shaft 30 or drive shaft 32 . For example, Fig. 12 and Fig. 13 are simple schema of link stand of front axle where hole 64 is connected with elevation shaft 30 . In rear drive rear axle suspension system as shown in Fig. 8 the connecting part of link stand has a hole for drive shaft 44 to pass through. In rear axle passive suspension system as shown in Fig. 10 and 11 the connecting part of link stand is a blind hole. On frame type flexible axle suspension system there are other four supporting components, two for each steel shaft. Although they are disposed on respective steel shafts symmetrically to the longitudinal axis of automobile i.e. center line of front and rear wheel shafts , distances of each pair of suspporting components on two steel shafts may be equal or not equal. Vehicle frame 40 is directly fixed on these supporting components, thus performs the task of connecting suspension system with wheels 28, 46 and vehicle frame 40 . Each supporting component consists of a supporting stand, a hoop, an elastic sleeve. Elastic sleeves 20, 21, 22, 23 have shock absorbing feature, at the same time functions as a hinge for guiding action. They are made of rubber or synthetic rubber product, e.g. rubber BR , polyurethane UR , and thermoplastic elastic material SBS etc. Elastic sleeves are directly put on appropriate location of spring steel shafts 12, 14 , stuck together by adhesives, or solidified on spring steel shaft by rubber vulcanizing process. Sleeves may have various forms, such as cylindrical form or form of bearing housing. In addition, supporting stand 26 and spring steel shafts 12, 14 may be integrated by filling rubber between them, a method normally called vulcanization , to ensure that it is elastic and strong. Hoops 24 are used to band elastic sleeves firmly on spring steel shafts. Hoops may have various constructions. Ordinary clamping mechanism is capable to achieve this objective. Fig. 17, 18 and 19 show one of those ordinary hoop mechanisms, where hoop 24 consists of two halves of steel parts, the form of inner clamping surface suits the form of elastic sleeves 20, 21, 22, 23 , the outer form suits supporting stand 26 . On both halves of the hoop there are holes with threades 58 . Two halves of the hoop are clamped together by bolts 52 , thus elastic sleeves are tightly pressed on spring steel shafts 12, 14 . By controlling tightening force of bolts it is possible to adjust the pressure of elastic sleeves on steel shafts. Sticking force of adhesives and pressure of hoops make the supporting components on spring steel shafts imposible to slide along steel shafts under impact, vibration, braking or turning of automobile. Obviously, making elastic sleeves longer will favour preventing above mentioned slide. Therefore, elastic sleeves for large automobiles should be longer, for small or mini automobiles shorter, but it should not be less then 20 mm. at the least. Supporting stand 26 is fixed on hoop 24 . It can be made integral with hoop, or fixed on hoop by means of mechanical fastening method or welding process. Supporting stand has four holes. By means of bolts or rivets it can be securely fastened to chassis 40 . Finally it serves as a support for chassis. Supporting stand may have a round, triangular, rectangular or square form according to construction of chassis, but normally rectangular form is prefered. As described above, distance between each pair of supporting components can be adjusted. The benefit is that guiding feature and stability of suspension can be adjusted. Since supporting components make suspension possess guiding feature, at the same time make steel shafts function like stabilizing rod, increase in the distance will improve the stability of suspension, decrease in the distance will improve guiding feature, but decrease stability. Therefore, by adjusting this distance it is possible to find an ideal combination of guiding and stabilizing features. In addition, by adjusting the distance it is possible to adjust natural frequency of virbration of the elastic element spring steel shaft, thus to improve smoothness of automobile. Just as described above, the distance between supporting stands of two spring steel shafts may be different. The amount of difference may also be adjusted. The advantage is that in a certain degree it makes rigidity of suspension variable depending on vehicle s loading. In this way the natural frequency of vehicle body changes very little. Smoothness of drive of vehicle is improved which is most important for buses and cars. Generally speaking, two supporting components of each steel shaft should be disposed at 1 6 H to 2 6 H and at 4 6 H to 5 6 H respectively. H distance between two wheels, see Fig. 4 . Two supporting components of each steel shaft should be symmetric to center line of distance between two wheels. For example, on spring steel shaft 12 there are two elastic sleeves 20 and 21 . If 20 is placed at 1 6 H H distance between two wheels , then 21 should be placed at 5 6H. Elastic sleeves 20 and 21 are symmetric to center line of distance between two wheels. However, elastic sleeves 20 and 21 and 22 and 23 on two respective spring steel shafts 12 and 14 of the same frame construction are not necessarily to be placed at the same distance, see Fig. 4. For example, elastic sleeves 20 and 21 on spring steel shaft 12 are placed at 2 6 H and 4 6H H distance between two wheels respectively, but elastic sleeves 22 and 23 on spring steel shaft 14 are placed at 1 6 H and 5 6H respectively. Of course, from point of view of vehicle body construction, loading condition and simplicity of maintenence, elastic sleeves 20 and 21 or 22 and 23 may be placed at the same distance between two wheels. In summary from above, frame type flexible axle suspension system is basically characterized as two parallel spring steel shafts 12, 14 , ends of which pass through a pair of link stands 16, 18 respectively, which are perpendicular to spring steel shafts. Combined together, they form a frame construction 10 . Link stands are connected with elevation shaft or drive shaft or wheel shaft. Elastic sleeves 20, 21, 22, 23 are fastened on spring steel shafts 12 or 14 respectively by means of hoops. Supporting stand 26 is connected with hoops and fixed on chassis or main beam 40 of automobile. At the same time, in order to solve the problem of making wheel perpendicular to earth as much as possible, applying this frame type flexible axle suspension system to presently used sliding arm type or four connecting rod type especially with movable spherical head at its turning link front drive front axle suspension system will give a more ideal effect see Fig. 6 . This new frame type flexible axle suspension system has been tested on automobiles. Experimental automobile is a small truck with one row of seats and 600 kg loading capacity. On the front axle of automobile a front drive down supporting type flexible axle suspension system as shown in Fig. 2 was applied, on rear axle a passive type suspension system as shown in Fig. 11 . Spring steel 60si₂Mn was selected for spring steel shafts of both front and rear axles. Diameter of all steel shafts is 20mm. The distance between two steel shafts of front axle is approximately one third of wheel diameter. The distance between two spring steel shafts of rear axle is 250 mm. Elastic sleeves are made of rubber BR . They have cylindrical form with inner diameter of 18 mm, thickness of 20 mm and length of 40 mm. Sleeves are firmly stuck to steel shafts with 502 adhesive. Hoops are used to fasten elastic sleeves on to steel shafts as shown in Fig. 17, 19. Hoops are welded on supporting stands and fixed on main frame of automobile by bolts which pass through four thread holes on supporting stands. Elastic sleeves of front and rear axles are placed at 2 9H and 7 9H H distance between two wheels respectively. In total, there are less than 200 parts in the experimental frame type flexible suspension system for front and rear axle. Construction is extremely simple. Automobile had been driving under full load condition and unexpected smoothness was achieved. Comfortableness is excellent. Sitting inside, people did not feel any bumping. Automobile showed flexible turning and good guiding feature. Using frame type flexible axle suspension system greatly simplifies the whole suspension mechanism, reduces the amount of parts and components, thus makes manufacturing easier and assembly simpler, reduces cost, facilitates maintensence and repair, decreases vehicle body s weight, saves energy consumption accordingly and reduces the noise level caused by friction between parts.