# Window for aircraft cabin.

## Abstract
Aircraft cabin window consisting mainly of polymethyl methacrylate PMMA and provided with a coating, whereby at least one surface of the window is covered with an optically transparant layer or coating consisting mainly of polyvinylidene fluoride PVDF .

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. Aircraft cabin window consisting mainly of polymethylmethacrylate PMMA and provided with a coasting, characterized in that at least one surface of the window is covered with an optically transparant layer of coating consisting mainly of polyvinylidene fluoride PVDF . 2. Aircraft cabin window as in claim 1, characterized in that the or each surface layer has a thickness between 2 and 100 pm. 3. Aircraft cabin window as in claims 1 2, characterized in that the or each surface layer consists mainly of a blend ofPVDF and PMMA in a weight ratio of 100 0 to 10 90. 4. Aircraft cabin window as in claims 1 3, characterized in that between the coating and the window there is a layer consisting of a blend of PMMA and PVDF of which the concentration of PVDF is lower than that of the outer surface layer containing PVDF. 5. Aircraft cabin window as in claims 1 3, characterized in that the surface layer consists mainly of a blend of PMMA andPVDF of which the concentration of PVDF increases towards the surface from the PMMA window. 6. Aircraft cabin window as in claims t 5, characterized in that the foil is applied by heating the assembly of window and 0 foil at a temperature of 160 190 C maintaining such a pressure that the window does not shrink back at that temperature. 7 Aircarft cabin window according to claim 6, characterized in that the heating of the assembly is carried out such that only the surface to be coated is heated to 160 190 OC. 8. Aircraft with cabin windows, characterized in that the windows are as described in claims 1 7.

## Description
Window for aircraft cabin. The invention concerns an aircraft cabin window mainly of polymethylmethacrylate PMMA provided with a coating. The invention further concerns aircrafts provided with such cabin windows. Aircrafts are usually supplied with cabin windows consisting of polymethylmethacrylate PMMA . This material is stretched biaxially at an elevated temperature, which increases the strength of the material. After stretching, the windows are thermoformed to follow the shape of the outside of the aircraft. Flying at high altitudes, there is a pressure difference between the inside and outside of the aircraft.The pressure difference causes a tensile stress in the outer layer of the window, which results in a decreased resistance against chemical and physical influences as compared to material without any tensile stress in the surface layer. In recent years a strong decrease in the mean time between replacement of the windows has been observed because of the appearance of small crazes in the outer surface layer of the windows, which severly impair the transparancy. In a report by K. Ewald, presented at the ASTM F 7.08 meeting in Los Angeles, 9 10 Nov. 1983 Airline experience with crazing , it is stated that these crazes could be related to the influence of sulfuric acid. This appears in the stratosphere most likely because of several major vulcano eruptions in recent years. Laboratory experiments have shown that indeed strong crazing can be observed within half an hour after exposing the surface layer of a cabin window under a tensile stress of 20 MPa to a 40 sulfuric acid solution.Therefore, assuming that sulfuric acid is a representative of the main causes of the recent increase in crazing, it is now possible to check methods of improving the resistance against stress corrosion. In the European patent application No. 0 055 802, a method is described to prevent the occurence of cracks in the peripheral edge surface of windows. This cracking in fact is a delamination between the different layers of the biaxially oriented PMMA, which can be caused by a humidity gradient in the edge surface. The method consists of coating the edge with a thin layer of a polymer material such as poly vinylidene chloride , poly tetrafluoroethylene , chlorinated polyether, poly vinylidene fluoride , polyethylene, poly vinyl chloride , butyl rubber, poly ethylene terephthalate , neoprene and nitrile elastomers. According to this application only the peripheral edge is coated with such a layer, because that is the place where cracking originates.The polymers have been chosen such that the moisture permeation rate of the coating is substantially lower than that of the window material. It has been found now that the formation of crazes due to chemical and physical influences of the environment on the outer surface of aircraft cabin windows under tensile stress can be prevented or at least substantially reduced by covering the outer surface with a layer of polymer material, characterized in that the layer mainly consists of polyvinylidene fluoride PVDF . The thickness of this layer is preferably between 2 and 100 Vm, especially between 20 and 50 wn. It is known from the U.S. patent 4,226,904 corresponding with French patent application 2,397,927 that objects made ofPMMA can be covered with PVDF. However no mention is made of application of this material for aircraft cabin windows. For reasons of increased resistance against chemical and physical influences in combination with good optical transparancy, it could be advisable to use an interlayer between the PVDF coating and the PMMA window consisting of a blend of PVDF and PMMA. Another possibility is to use a coating with a gradient in the concentration ratio of PVDF and PMMA. It will be clear that a greater resistance can be expected for a larger concentration of PVDF. Application of the coating according to the invention can be done by various methods like co extrusion, immersion, spreading on or spraying on a solution of PVDF over thePMMA surface. All of these methods are well known to experts in this field. The coating can also be applied by using an adhesive, by ultrasonic welding, hot air or a hot plate. Preferably the coating is applied on the window by heating the assembly of window and foil to a temperature 0 of 160 190 C under such a pressure that the window does not shrink back at the temperature as used.In this connection it is recommended to heat the assembly within a short time such that only the surface to be coated is brought to the temperature of 160 190 C, preferably to a temperature of about 170 00. The invention will be illustrated with the following example. Example An aircraft cabin window of an aircraft of the typeBoeing 747 was cleaned with ethanol and covered on the convex side with a foil consisting of PVDF of 25 pm thickness, by heating carried out as follows. On the convex side of the thus covered window a sheet of highly polished stainless steel of 0.1 mm thickness was placed. The sheet was 2 heated with a thin heating element, producing a uniform heat of 3.3 W cm over its entire surface. The temperature was measured by means of a thermocouple positioned between the sheet and the heating element. The stack of window coated with PVDF foil, stainless steel sheet, heating element and thermocouple was placed between two moulds with the same curvature as the window and pressed together with a pressure of 2000 kPa.The stainless steel plate was then heated to a temperature of 170 C in 45 sec. At the moment this temperature was reached, the heating power was switched off and the unit allowed to cool down while the pressure was retained. The window was removed after the temperature was decreased to 70 OC in approximately 3 minutes. After this, the stainless steel sheet, heating element and thermocouple were positioned on the concave side of the window and the sheet is again heated as described above. The cabin window resulting after this treatment is on one side coated with a well adhering transparant layer of PVDF and the original curvature of the window is well preserved The window was loaded such that in the coated surface of the window a tensile stress of 20 MPa existed. On top of the coating an amount of H2S04 was put with a concentration of 40 . After a period of 2 weeks no trace of crazing could be seen, while on the surface of an uncoated window crazes appeared within a period of one hour if this was subjected to the same test.