# HEAT COOKING APPARATUS

## Claims
Kochgerät, mit einer von Wänden eingefaßten Heizkammer zum Aufnehmen von zu erhitzenden Speisen

## Description
The invention relates to a heat cooking apparatus comprising a heating chamber surrounded by walls for accomodating food material to be heated at least one wall of the heating chamber being fitted at its outside surface with a flat heater covering substantially the full area of said wall. In conventional electric ovens or microwave ovens with electric heaters, heating devices have been adopted with a heating element built into a pipe shaped metal, commonly called a sheathed heater, or with a flat heating element sandwiched with flat insulation sheets, commonly called a flat heater. Flat heaters are roughly divided into two types wall types and built in types. A wall type flat heater is installed into an opening which is provided as a cut portion in the heating chamber wall, while a built in type flat heater is installed within a predetermined space in the heating chamber, several examples of conventional heating devices being shown in Figs. 1 through 4. Fig. 1 is a cross sectional view showing a conventional microwave heating range with built in type sheathed heaters, and Fig. 2 is a perspective view showing the sheathed heater shown in Fig. 1. As shown in Fig. 1, the heating chamber 1 comprises an upper heater 2, a lower heater 3, and a pan 4 where food material 5 to be heated and cooked is placed. Furthermore, the apparatus is provided with a magnetron 6 which irradiates microwaves into the heating chamber 1 through a waveguide 7 to heat food 5. Thus, Fig. 1 shows a so called compound heating oven, and the heater used is shown in Fig. 2. In this heat cooking apparatus of conventional constitution, the upper heater 2 and lower heater 3 are exposed in the heating chamber 1, so that the effective capacity of the heating chamber 1 is reduced by the volume of the heater. In order to contain large sized food material, conventional heating chambers must be made larger, and, consequently, the external dimension of the conventional apparatus is proportionally larger requiring a larger space for it to be placed, thus making it inconvenient to use. Moreover, heaters exposed in the heating chamber make it difficult to clean inside surfaces of the heating chamber soiled with scattered food material, making it even more inconvenient to use. More specifically, the lower heater 3 is constituted detachably so that the bottom face of the heating chamber can be easily cleaned when food material or soup drips on the face. However, to prevent microwave leakage, the joining part of the lower heater 3 to the heating chamber 1 has a very complicated constitution. The upper portion of the heating chamber 1 is easily stained and difficult to clean, even though the upper heater 2 is undetachably constituted. Accordingly, this portion of the heating chamber is provided with a so called self cleaning layer which has a self cleaning function to decompose adhered oil stains into water as well as carbon dioxide gas at temperatures higher than a predetermined temperature. Even when this apparatus is used for grill cooking, where the upper heater reaches the allowable highest temperature, the temperature at the self cleaning layer confronting the upper heater 2 scarcely reaches 300 C, so that the self cleaning layer cannot perform its total self cleaning potential. In fact, this apparatus is commonly used in homes for oven cooking bread or cake, not for grill cooking food material. When this apparatus is used for oven cooking, the large quantity of electric power supplied to the lower heater 3 at the bottom results in a lower temperature on the self cleaning layer at the upper portion of heating chamber, supressing its self cleaning potential. In addition, since the upper and lower heaters 2 and 3 are exposed in the heating chamber 1, the food material 5 directly receives radiation heat, especially from the upper heater 2, which locally burns the food material in the pattern of the upper heater 2. Although the lower heater 3 is constituted detachably, the assembly or disassembly of it is troublesome. If the lower heater 3 is removed and washed with water, trouble may occur with its insulation or durability. Above of all, the exposure of heaters in the heating chamber 1 not only prevents easy cleaning, but they also do not have an aesthetically pleasant shape. Fig. 3 is a perspective view showing a conventional heat cooking apparatus with a wall type flat heater, wherein a part of the ceiling of the heating chamber is scooped to form an opening and a heater formed as a flat sheet is inserted and installed in said opening. In this constitution, significant thermal gradient is produced at the joining portions between said flat heater 8 and the ceiling of the heating chamber 1. That is, the temperature of the heater 8 rises quickly when energizing starts, and the heater 8 inflates in the plane direction. The adjacent ceiling area of the heating chamber 1, however, remains at room temperature so that significant mechanical stress occurs at the joining portions between them. If this phenomenon is frequently repeated, cracks will appear at the joining portion and result into damage, and especially, in the case where microwave heating is jointly used, microwaves may leak or sparks may emit from said cracks. In this constitution, it is difficult to provide a flat heater 8 over the whole ceiling area of the heating chamber 1, and, consequently, uneven heating by the heater cannot be totally eliminated. A further example of a conventional heating apparatus including a built in type flat heater 8 provided in a heating chamber 1, is shown in figure 4. This solution, however, processes all the disadvantages common to the previous solution with a wall type flat heater as described above. In addition, the built in flat heater still significantly reduces the effective room capacity of the heating chamber 1, and also cannot be easily cleaned. From US A 3,265,861 a heat cooking apparatus is known, comprising a heating chamber surrounded by walls for accomodating food material to be heated. Flat heating elements covering substantially the full area of the upper and the lower walls are mounted at the outside surface of the walls, so that the heating chamber is free from such heating elements. It is also generally known to cover at least one wall of a heating chamber with a self cleaning enamel layer in order to provide a self cleaning function at sufficiently high temperatures. However, the provision of such self cleaning enamel layers on the walls of a heating chamber carrying flat heaters on its outside causes the problem of high thermal stresses on the wall and its joints, particularly on a self cleaning enamel layer. It is therefore an object of the present invention to provide a heat cooking apparatus of the kind described, in which a self cleaning enamel layer can be used in connection with a flat heater fitted to the outside surface of a wall of the heating chamber, without causing the problem of thermal stresses to the wall, particularly to the self cleaning enamel layer. To attain the above described object, according to the invention, said wall is covered with a self cleaning enamel layer and formed with a gentle convex curvature towards said heater and that the heater is attached to said wall of the heating chamber by an attachment plate which is slidable in the plane of said wall. In a preferred embodiment, said flat heater is pressed and fixed to said heating chamber wall, preferably the bottom of the heating chamber, by said attachment plate and flexible, bar shaped springs. In case that the wall of the heating chamber as to be secured to the main part of the heating chamber, in another preferred embodiment the attachment plate is provided with a plurality of holes for attaching said flat heater said holes being elongated holes with its long axis extending in the expansion direction of said attachment plate and said attachment plate being attached to said heating chamber wall, preferably the ceiling of the heating chamber, by inserting and tightening screws into said elongated holes with little clearance remaining in the screw axis direction. Preferably said flat heater is pressed and fitted onto said heating chamber wall through a heat resistant insulation material by the attachment plate which is provided with at least one cut slot projecting radially from the center toward the outskirts. On said metal plate, a plurality of fine grooves are provided from the center towards the periphery so that the metal keep plate is attached to the ceiling of heating chamber, thus permitting it to freely shrink in the plane direction. The metal plate and heater are attached to the ceiling of heating chamber by pressing the peripheral portion of the heater with springs or tightening the same portion with screws allowing only a very small clearance so that the flat heater and the ceiling of heating chamber can be uniformly and firmly contacted with each other. The self cleaning layer is provided on the inner surface of the heating chamber ceiling which is contacting with said flat heater. In the heat cooking apparatus of the present invention, the flat heater is provided at the outside of the ceiling of heating chamber which is formed with a convex curvature towards the flat heater. Accordingly, with continuing heating, the heating chamber ceiling increases its curvature towards the flat heater because of the thermal expansion, and at the same time, the flat heater thermally expands. However, the flat heater is fixed so as to expand in a plane direction, and, accordingly, contact pressure between the flat heater and the ceiling of heating chamber increase so that heat from the flat heater can be uniformly and effectively transmitted towards the ceiling and food material in the heating chamber. The higher temperature of the flat heater and the ceiling of heating chamber is easily established becomes, resulting in more uniform heat emission and less insulation degradation or less heating wire breakage. According to these operations, a heater provided outside the heating chamber can effectively heat food material in the heating chamber and, moreover, heat can be more uniformly distributed by this constitution, resulting in more uniform heating of food in the heating chamber. Since this constitution requires no heater exposed in the heating chamber, the effective capacity of the heating chamber increases and the inside surface of heating chamber can be easily cleaned, resulting in easy, convenient handling. As described above, the flat heater is attached to the ceiling of heating chamber so that it fits the convex curvature of the ceiling. At this time, the cut grooves provided on the keep plate for the flat heater work effectively. That is, since the keep plate is provided with a flat sheet having a plurality of cut grooves, when the convex curvature of the heating chamber ceiling becomes larger, the outer portion of the keep plate deforms in a wave like shape in association with the convex curvature of the ceiling. The wave shape deformation of the keep plate prevents the heater from perfectly contacting with the ceiling of heating chamber causing ineffective heat transmitting to the ceiling. Accordingly, the keep plate of the present invention is provided with a plurality of cut grooves extending from the center to the outer periphery radially to permit them to absorb the deformation of the outer periphery so that the keep plate allows the flat heater to perfectly contact with the ceiling of heating chamber in any curvature shape, and heat from the flat heater is uniformly and effectively transmitted to the ceiling and to food material in the heating chamber. The flat heater according to the present invention can be attached to the ceiling by fixing it with flexible springs from the upper side or tightening screws which allow a little clearance, and thus, assembly is extremely simple, easy, and inexpensive. Since the flat heater, the main heat source when electrically heating food material, is provided outside the ceiling in contact with the ceiling, the self cleaning layer, provided with substantially the same area as the inside of the ceiling, reaches 400 450 C at so called grill heating or 300 400 C at so called oven heating. These temperatures are approx. 100 150 C at grill heating and 100 200 C at oven heating higher than those in a conventional apparatus with upper and lower heaters, consequently, the self cleaning function is dramatically improved in this apparatus of the present invention. In addition, since the color of said self cleaning layer is black or dark gray, the self cleaning layer has heat absorption and heat emission abilities similar to a blackbody so it effectively absorbs heat from the flat heater, heat source, and quickly emits the absorbed heat toward the heating chamber. This function eliminates overheating of the heating wires in the flat heater and the negative effects on the insulation mica, thereby to render contributing advantageously toward faster cooking and cooking quality. When said self cleaning layer repeats the expansion shrinking cycle caused by heat from the flat heater, the effect of tensile stress on said self cleaning layer which is mainly composed of glass is minimized, and compression stress is mainly applied to said self cleaning layer by constituting a convex shape ceiling, at which said self cleaning layer is provided. Accordingly, a heating chamber provided with a self cleaning layer which is extremely resistant to thermal stress can be manufactured by this constitution of the present invention. It can be easily imagined that this convex shaped heating chamber is best suited for a microwave heating chamber or heat reflection chamber to effectively transmit microwave energy or heat energy toward food material positioned at the center of the chamber. Further, since the flat heater can uniformly heat food material, the material can be positioned at a point nearer to the heater. The self cleaning layer is a blackbody, has excellent heat emission ability, and fully utilizes its self cleaning function, and thus, the layer can keep itself clean even when the material is positioned near to the layer. As apparent from the preceding description, the heat cooking apparatus according to the present invention has advantages of rapid heating, easy cleaning, beautiful constitution, high durability, and that either microwave heating cooking or electrical heating cooking is possible. These and other objects and features of the present invention will become apparent from the following description taken in conjunction with a preferred embodiment thereof with reference to the accompanying drawings, in which Before the description of the present invention proceeds, it is to be noted that like parts are designated by like reference numerals throughout the accompanying drawings. Referring to Figs. 5 to 8, the one embodiment of the present invention will be described in detail hereinafter. In Fig. 5 showing a heat cooking apparatus according to the present invention, a pair of flat, plane heaters 8 are provided at outside of the ceiling and base of the heating chamber 1 having six walls of cubic type upon perfectly contacting with each other, respectively. Each of said flat heater 8 is fixed to the ceiling or base of the heating chamber 1 with attaching metal plates 9. Heat insulating materials 10 are provided outwardly on the metal plate 9 to prevent heat emission toward the outside of the heating chamber 1. A magnetron 6, provided on a waveguide 7, is adapted to heat food material 5 positioned on a pan 4 by microwave heating. With the above described constitution, food material 5 can be heated by either electrical heating or microwave heating. Since the flat heater 8 is provided with substantially the same area as the ceiling of the heating chamber 1 with a small convex curvature, the food material 5 can be positioned extremely close to the ceiling, by the pan and this constitution can more effectively use the space that is conventionally occupied by the sheathed heater. Thus, the volume which can be effectively heated in a short time with this constitution surrounded by the pan 4, the ceiling of the heating chamber 1, and four walls of the heating chamber 1, is dramatically increased as compared to the volume of a conventional apparatus. Since the distance from food material 5 placed on the pan 4 to the ceiling of the heating chamber 1 can be decreased, the temperature of the material will rapidly rise consequently, material is rapidly starched without losing its delicious qualities. The inner side of the ceiling of the heating chamber 1 is provided with a self cleaning enamel layer 11, which provides good heat emission. That is, the temperature of the food material rises rapidly, resulting in a large quantity of oil and water stains on the self cleaning layer, and, the self cleaning enamel layer reaches a temperature best suited for the self cleaning function, so that all oil stains are eliminated from the layer. However, such a characteristic is not found in a conventional apparatus. In Figs. 6 and 7, the flat heater 8 is constituted by winding a heating element 8a around a winding base 8b made of heat resistant and insulating material like mica, and sandwiching this assembly with insulating plates 8c made of mica. By this constitution, the flat heater assembly 8 has a property of flexibility in the perpendicular direction to the surface of heating chamber 1 to facilitate easy fitting to the ceiling of heating chamber 1. Radially provided on an attaching plate 9a for the flat heater 8 are several slotted holes. A stepped screw 12 is inserted into the slotted hole to sandwich and tighten the flat heater 8 to the ceiling of heating chamber 1. In this apparatus, the ceiling of heating chamber 1 is constituted to have a gentle convey curvature toward the flat heater 8. With the above described constitution, if and when the flat heater 8 and attaching plate 9a deform by thermal expansion with the temperature rise in the apparatus, the attaching plate 9a can expand in the plane direction because the stepped screw 12 is loosely tightened in the slotted hole. However, the stress caused by heat expansion in the ceiling of heating chamber 1 works in a perpendicular direction to bend the ceiling upwardly because the ceiling of heating chamber 1 is restricted at its four sides. Accordingly, the contact between the flat heater 8 and the ceiling of the heating chamber 1 is tightened by this heat expansion. In addition, the flat heater 8 provided at the base of the heating chamber 1 is attached with a metal plate 9b for the same purpose. In this case, however, the metal plate 9b is fitted to the base with a bar shaped, flexible band 13 illustrated in Fig. 5 in order to facilitate an easy assembly operation. Furthermore, provided on the attaching plate for the upper flat heater 9a is a cutout at a part of a diagonal line from the center toward the outer corner. With the above described constitution, if and when the flat heater 8 and attaching plate 9a deform by thermal expansion with the temperature rise in the apparatus, the attaching plate for the upper flat heater 9a is expanded in the same manner as mentioned above to push up to contact with the ceiling of the heating chamber 1 closely reducing the clearance of said cutout. As illustrated in Fig. 8, the heating chamber ceiling 14 is constituted to have a gentle convex curvature toward the outside of the heating chamber. When the heating chamber ceiling expands by heat from the heater not shown in the figure , the ceiling deforms as shown in Fig. 8 a because the four sides of the ceiling are fixed and it cannot expand toward the walls of the heating chamber. In this case, forces shown in Fig. 8 a are applied to the point P on the ceiling, that is, a compression force f1 is applied to the inner face, and a tensile force f0 is applied to the outer face of the ceiling 14 of thickness t. On the contrary, if the ceiling is constituted to have a curvature toward inside of the heating chamber as shown in Fig. 8 b , tensile force f0 is applied to the inner face of the heating chamber with the enamel layer, and compression force f1 is applied to the outer face of the heating chamber. An apparatus according to the present invention is provided with a self cleaning enamel layer 11 at the ceiling of the heating chamber. The enamel layer is mainly composed of glass and inorganic materials and the layer resists compression force, but it is extremely weak against tensile force. It has been clearly demonstrated by experimental trial that these characteristics are especially true of a self cleaning layer equal to or thicker than 300 micron meters. That is, continuous and intermittent blank baking tests were carried out, simulating grill cooking, using an apparatus with the heating chamber ceiling 14 made from an aluminized steel sheet formed an aluminum porcelain enamelling layer. As a result, all heating chamber ceilings 14 shaped as shown in Fig. 8 b with thicknesses of 1 0.6, 2 0.8 and 3 1.0 mm cracked on their enamel layers within 80 120 hours. On the contrary, the heating chamber ceiling 14 shaped as shown in Fig. 8 a has never cracked on its enamel layer after 500 hours. Accordingly, the theory on which the present invention is based has been proved to be true by these experimental trials. As is clear from the preceding description, the following advantages can be attained by the heat cooking apparatus according to the present invention. Therefore, according to the present invention, an electric heating apparatus is provided in simple construction with ensuring a highly reliable, durable, and safe quality, and can be manufactured with uniform and rapid heating, enlarged effective capacity, and easy cleaning of the heating chamber, wherein those characteristics are the superior features of a flat heater.