# Prophylaxis of pharmacotherapy of liver disorders.

## Abstract
Methincyanine compounds having the following general formula I are effective for the prophylaxis or pharmacothera py of liver disorders or hepatic diseases of warm blooded animals.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. The use of a methincyanine compound having the general formula I for the prophylaxis or pharmacotherapy of liver disorders of warm blooded animals comprising administering thereto an effective amount of the methincyanine compound.EMI24.1 wherein R1 and R2 may be the same or different and represent an unsubstituted or substituted alkyl group, 3 , 3t4 , R5 , and R6 independently represent a hydrogen atom or an alkyl group, and represents an anion. 2 . The use of the methincyanine compound as claimed in claim 1, wherein the R1 and R2 groups in the general formula I are the same alkyl or substituted alkyl groups. 3. The use of the methincyanine compound as claimed in claim 1, wherein the R1 and R2 groups in the general formula I are the different alkyl or substituted alkyl groups. 4. The use of the methincyanine compound as claimed in claim 1, wherein the effective amount of the methincyanine compound is 50 vg to 5 mg head day. 5. The use of the methincyanine compound as claimed in claim 1, wherein the warm blooded animals are human beings. 6. The use of the methincyanine compound as claimed in claim 1, wherein the liver disorder or hepatic disease is toxic hepatopathy, jecur adiposum, acute hepatitis, chronic hepatitis, or hepatocirrhosis. 7. The use of a methincyanine compound having the general formula I defined in claim 1 for the production of a pharmaceutical preparation for the prophylaxis or pharmacotherapy of liver disorders of warm blooded animals. 8. The use of a methincyanine compound as claimed in claim 7, wherein the pharmaceutical preparation is in the form of a orally, parenterally, or percutaneously administration. 9. A methincyanine compound having the general formula II EMI25.1 wherein R1 t and R2 are different from each other and represent an unsubstituted or substituted alkyl group, R3 , R4,, R5 , and R6 independently represent a hydrogen atom or an alkyl group, and W represents an anion. 10. A pharmaceutical composition for the prophylaxis or pharmacotherapy of liver disorders containing, as an effective component, the methincyanine compound of the general formula II of claim 9.

## Description
PROPHYLAXIS ORPHARMACOTHERAPY OF LIVER DISORDERS BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION 1. Field of the Invention The present invention relates to the prophylaxis or pharmacotherapy of liver disorders or hepatic diseases. More specifically, it relates to the prophylaxis or pharmacotherapy of liver disorders of warm blooded animals by the administration of methincyanine compounds, use of the methincyanine compounds for the production of pharmaceutical preparations for the prophylaxis or pharmacotherapy of liver disorders, and certain novel methincyanine compounds. According to the present invention, an excellent prophylaxis or treatment of liver disorders such as toxic hepatopathy, jecur adiposum, acute hepatitis, chronic hepatitis, and hepatocirrhosis is obtained. 2. Description of the Prior Art Certain methincyanine compounds such as pionin i.e., 2 2 3 heptyl 4 methyl 4 thiazolin 2 ylidene methyl 3 heptyl thiazolinum iodide and platonin i.e., 2,2g 3 2 3 heptyl 4 methyl 4 thiazolin 2 ylidene ethylidene propenylene bis 3 heptyl 4 methyl thiazolinum iodide have been used as a photosensitive dye in a photosensitive film. Furthermore, recently, the pharmaceutical activities of these photosensitive dye compounds have been noted, and they are now used in various cosmetic products and non medical products. For example, pionin, platonin, and similar compounds are formulated into, for example, cosmetic products, due to their excellent antimicrobial properties as disclosed in Pharmacia, Vol. 20, No. 11, 1123 1984 .It is also disclosed in, for example, Japanese UnexaminedPatent Publication Kokai Nos. 54 151133 and 55 69513 that methincyanine compounds such as pionin are effective as an antineoplastic agent due to their strong antineoplastic activities. Furthermore, it is reported in, for example, U.S. Patent No. 3562261 that the nicotinates of methincyanine compounds such as nicotinates of pionin are effective as medicaments for promoting the metabolism of the cellular structure, the growth of hair, and the regeneration of skin tissue, wounds, and the like by external application. SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION An object of the present invention is to develop novel pharmacological activities of methincyanine compounds such as pionin. In this connection, it has been found that the methincyanine compounds have pharmacological activities such that they strongly inhibit liver necrocytosis induced by carbon tetrachloride and liver disorders induced by D galactosamine and, therefore, the methincyanine compounds are extremely effective for the prophylaxis or pharmacotherapy of liver disorders or hepatic diseases. Accordingly, a further object of the present invention is to provide a prophylaxis or pharmacotherapy of liver disorders or hepatic diseases by the administration of methincyanine compounds. Another object of the present invention is the use of methincyanine compounds for the production of pharmacological preparations for the prophylaxis or pharmacotherapy of liver disorders or hepatic diseases. A still further object of the present invention is to provide novel methincyanine compounds hitherto not reported or disclosed in any literature, which are remarkably effective for the prophylaxis or pharmacotherapy of liver disorders or hepatic diseases. A still further object of the present invention is to provide pharmacological preparations suitable for use in the prophylaxis or pharmcotherapy of liver disorders or hepatic diseases containing as an active component the novel methincyanine compounds. Other objects and advantages of the present invention will be apparent from the following description. According to the present invention, there is provided a prophylaxis or pharmacotherapy of liver disorders or hepatic diseases for warm blooded animals by administrating thereto an effective amount of a methincyanine compound having the general formula I .EMI3.1 wherein R1 and R2 may be the same or different and represent an unsubstituted or substituted alkyl group, R3 , 4 , R5 , and R6 independently represent a hydrogen atom or an alkyl group, and represents an anion. DESCRIPTION OF THE PREFERRED EMBODIMENTS In the above mentioned general formula I , R1 and Rz are the same or different and represent alkyl groups which may or may not have a substitutent. The alkyl groups are linear or branched alkyl groups having 1 to 20 carbon atoms. Examples of such alkyl groups are methyl, ethyl, propyl, isopropyl, butyl, isobutyl, pentyl, hexyl, heptyl, octyl, nonyl, decyl, undecyl, tridecyl, tetradecyl, hexadecyl, nonadecyl, and eicosyl groups. The substituents which may be substituted in the alkyl groups include, for example, a hydroxyl group. In the above mentioned general formula I , R3, R4, R5, and R6 are a hydrogen atom and alkyl groups.Examples of such alkyl groups are linear or branched alkyl groups having 1 to 8 carbon atoms, such as methyl, ethyl, propyl, isopropyl, butyl, isobutyl, pentyl, hexyl, and octyl groups. In the general formula I , X represents an anion. Examples of such anions are halogen anions such as an iodo ion, bromo ion, and chloro ion inorganic acid anions such as a phosphate idn, nitrate ion, sulfate ion, and perchlorate ion and organic acid anions such as a thiocyanate ion, acetate ion, p toluenesulfonate ion, orotate ion, and nicotinate ion. The above mentioned methincyanine compounds having the same alkyl or substituted alkyl groups as R1 andR2 groups are known compounds, which can be produced by known methods disclosed in, for example, The Chemistry of Synthetic Dyes, Vol. 2, 1155, Academic Press 1952 and The Theory of the Photographic Process, 3rd edition,N.Y., The Macmillan Company, 206. On the other hand, the methincyanine compounds having the general formula I in which the R1 andR2 are the different alkyl or substituted alkyl groups, are novel compounds not hitherto reported or disclosed in any literature. These novel methincyanine compounds are represented by the following general formula II EMI4.1 wherein R1 and R2 are different from each other and represent an unsubstituted or substituted alkyl group, R3 , R4 , R5 , and R6 independently represent a hydrogen atom or an alkyl group, and k represents an anion. In the above mentioned general formula II , R and R2 are different from each other and represent alkyl groups which may or may not have a substitutent.The alkyl groups are linear or branched alkyl groups having 1 to 20 carbon atoms. Examples of such alkyl groups are methyl, ethyl, propyl, isopropyl, butyl, isobutyl, pentyl, hexyl, heptyl, octyl, nonyl, decyl, undecyl, tridecyl, tetradecyl, hexadecyl, nonadecyl, and eicosyl groups. The substituents which may be substituted in the alkyl groups include, for example, a hydroxyl group. In the above mentioned general formula II , R3,R4, R5, and R6 are a hydrogen atom and alkyl groups, and X represents an anion. Typical examples of theR3 , R4 , R5 , and R6 groups and X are the same as defined in the general formula I . These novel methincyanine compounds having the general formula II can be similarly produced by using the above mentioned known methods. For example, the compound II can be produced as follows EMI5.1 wherein R1 , R21, R3, R4, R5, and R , and X are as defined above. The compounds III and IV can be produced in a known method disclosed in, for example, The Cyanine Dyes and Related Compounds, New York, John Willey and Sons 1964 The reaction of the compound having the general formula III with the compound having the general formula IV can be carried out, for example, in the presence of an organic base in an organic solvent at an elevated temperature. Examples of the organic bases usable in the reaction are organic amines such as trimethylamine, triethylamine, pyridine, and piperidine.Examples of the organic solvents are alcohols such as methanol, ethanol, propanol, and butanol acetone dimethylformamide and dimethylsulfoxide. The compound III and the compound IV are preferably used in an equal mole amount or similar amount in the reaction. The organic base is preferably used in an amount of 1 to 3 moles based on 1 mole of the compound III or IV . The reaction is preferably carried out at a temperature of 600C to 700C for 1 to 6 hours. The recovery and purification of the desired reaction product can be carried out by any conventional method, e.g., separation, washing, and recrystallization. Typical examples of the methincyanine compounds having the general formula I are as follows A. Compounds having the same unsubstituted or substituted alkyl groups in R1 and R2 of the general formula I 1 2 2 3 ethyl 4 methyl 4 thiazolin 2 ylidene methyll 3 ethyl 4 methyl thiazolinium iodide, 2 2 2 3 propyl 4 methyl 4 thiazolin 2ylidene methyl 3 propyl 4 methyl thiazolinium iodide, 3 2 2 3 heptyl 4 methyl 4 thiazolin 2 ylidene methyl 3 heptyl 4 methyl thiazolinium iodide, 4 2 2 3 heptyl 4 methyl 4 thiazolin 2 ylidene methyll 3 heptyl 4 methyl thiazolinium nitrate, 5 2 2 3 heptyl 4 methyl 4 thiazolin 2 ylidene methyll 3 heptyl 4 methyl thiazolinium acetate, 6 RTI ID 6.8 2 2 3 heptyl 4 methyl 4 thiazolin 2 ylidene methyl 3 heptyl 4 methyl thiazolinium orotate, 7 2 2 3 heptyl 4 methyl 4 thiazolin 2 ylidene methyll 3 heptyl 4 methyl thiazolinium nicotinate, 8 2 2 3 pentyl 4 methyl 4 thiazolin 2 ylidene methyl 3 pentyl 4 methyl thiazolinium iodide, 9 2 t2 3 octyl 4 methyl 4 thiazolin 2 ylidene methyl 3 octyl 4 methyl thiazolinium iodide, B.Compounds having the different unsaturated or saturated alkyl groups in R1 and R2 of the general formula I i.e., Compounds having the general formula 11 1 2 2 3 dodecyl 4 methyl 4 thiazolin 2 ylidene methyl 3 ethyl 4 methyl thiazolinium iodide, 2 2 2 3 2 hydroxyethyl 4 methyl 4 thia zolin 2 ylidene methyl 3 ethyl 4 methyl thiazolinium chloride, 3 2 2 3 heptyl 4 methyl 4 thiazolin 2 ylidene methyl 3 butyl 4 methyl thiazolinium iodide, 4 2 2 3 heptyl 4 methyl 4 thiazolin 2 ylidene methyl 3 butyl 4 methyl thiazolinium chloride, 5 2 f 2 3 heptyl 4 methyl 4 thiazolin 2 ylidene methyl 3 butyl 4 methyl thiazolinium nicotinate, 6 2 2 3 dodecyl 4 methyl 4 thiazolin 2ylidene methyl 3 butyl 4 methyl thiazolinium iodide, 7 2 2 3 dodecyl 4 methyl 4 thiazolin 2ylidene methyl 3 butyl 4 methyl thiazolinium chloride, 8 2 2 3 octadecyl 4 methyl 4 thiazolin2 ylidene methyl 3 butyl 4 methyl thiazolinium iodide, 9 2 2 3 2 hydroxyethyl 4 methyl 4 thiazolin 2 ylidene methyl 3 butyl 4 methyl thiazolinium chloride, 10 2 2 3 methyl 4 methyl 4 thiazolin 2ylidene methyl 3 heptyl 4 methyl thiazolinium iodide, 11 2 2 3 2 hydroxyethyl 4 methyl 4 thia zolin 2 ylidene methyl 3 heptyl 4 methyl thiazolinium chloride, 12 2 2 3 decyl 4 methyl 4 thiazolin 2ylidene methyl 3 butyl 4 methyl thiazolinium iodide, 13 2 2 3 decyl 4 methyl 4 thiazolin 2ylidene methyl 3 butyl 4 methyl azolinium chloride, 14 2 2 3 nonyl 4 methyl 4 thiazolin 2ylidene methyl 3 pentyl 4 methyl thiazolinium iodide, 15 2 2 3 nonyl 4 methyl 4 thiazolin 2 ylidene methyl 3 pentyl 4 methyl thiazolinium chloride, 16 2 2 3 butyl 4 methyl 4 thiazolin 2ylidene methyl 3 heptyl 5 methyl thiazolinium iodide, 17 2 2 3 butyl 4 methyl 4 thiazolin 2ylidene methyl 3 heptyl 4,5 dimethyl thiazolinium iodide, 18 2 2 3 butyl 4 methyl 4 thiazolin 2ylidene methyl 3 methyl 4 hexyl 5 methyl thiazolinium perchlorate, 19 2 2 3 butyl 4 methyl 4 thiazolin 2 ylidene methyl 3 decyl 5 methyl thiazolinium iodide, According to a study by the inventors, the methincyanine compounds having the general formula I can strongly inhibit liver necrocytosis induced by carbon tetrachloride and also strongly suppress liver disorders induced by D galactosamine. Accordingly, these methincyanine compounds are effective for the prophylaxis or pharmacotherapy of acute or chronic liver disorders or hepatic diseases, of warm blooded animals, such as toxic hepatopathy, jecur adiposum, acute hepatitis, chronic hepatitis, and hepatocirrhosis.Especially, as mentioned above, the methincyanine compounds having the general formula II are novel compounds hitherto not reported or disclosed in any literature. Furthermore, the above mentioned pharmaceutical activities, i.e., the inhibition or surpression activities of liver disorders or hepatic diseases of the methincyanine compounds, are completely different from the known activities thereof i.e., the antimicrobial activities and antineoplastic activities . When the methincyanine compounds according to the present invention are used for the prophylaxis or pharmacotherapy of liver disorders or hepatic diseases of warm blooded animals, the compounds are preferably administered thereto in a dosage of 50 ug to 5 mg head day, although the dosage depends upon the symptoms. The administration can be orally or parenterally carried out one to four times a day. The orally applicable preparations of the present invention can be in the form of, for example, tablets, pills, granules, powders, liquids, suspensions, and capsules. When produced in tablet form, the methincyanine compounds can be formed in any conventional manner by using conventional ingredients. Examples of such ingredients are excipients such as lactose, starch, and crystalline celluloses binders such as carboxymethyl cellulose, methyl cellulose, and polyvinyl pyrrolidone disintegration agents such as sodium alginate and sodium bicarbonate and the like. The pharmaceutical preparations of the present invention in the form of liquids and suspensions can be produced in any conventional manner by using, for example, glycerol esters such as tricapryrin and triacetin and alcohols such as ethanol. The pharmaceutical preparations in the form of capsules can be produced by filling the granules, powder, or liquids into capsules. The pharmaceutical preparations of the present invention can be used for injections, such as endovenous, intramuscular, or hypodermic injection. In the production of these preparations, various solvents such as physiological saline, ethanol, and propylene glycol and optional preservatives and stabilizers can be used as usual. For rectal administration, the present pharmaceutical preparations can be in the form of a conventional suppository using gelatin soft capsules.For percutaneous administration, the present pharmaceutical preparations can be formed as ointments. These forms of the preparations can be produced in any conventional manner. The methincyanine compounds according to the present invention have a low toxicity and high stability.For example, the LD50 of pionin i.e., 2 2 3 heptyl4 methyl 4 thiazolin 2 ylidene methyl 3 heptyl 4 methyl thiazolinium iodide is 460 mg kg oral in the case of male rats and 503 mg kg oral in the case of female rats as disclosed in Nihon Koshohin Kagaku Kaishi,Vol. 8, No. 1, 1984. EXAMPLE The present invention will now be described in detail with reference to, but is by no means limited to, the following examples. Example 1 Svnthesis of 2 2 3 dodecvl 4 methvl 4 thiazolin 2 ylidene methyl 3 butyl 4 methvl thiazolinium iodide i A 1 mol amount of 2 mercapto 4 methylthiazol and 2.5 mol of butyl p toluenesulfonate were charged into an eggplant type flask and were then heated at a temperature of 1300C to 1400C for 8 hours on an oil bath. After the reaction, the resultant viscous fluid was cooled and then washed with ether several times.Thus, viscous 2 butylthio 3 butyl 4 methyl thiazolinium p toluene sulfonate was obtained. ii A I mol amount of 2,4 dimethyl 4 thiazol and 1.1 mol of dodecyl p chlorobenzenesulfonate were charged into an eggplant type flask and were then heated at a temperature of 1300C to 140at for 8 hours on an oil bath. After the reaction, the resultant viscous fluid was cooled and then washed several times with ether and a mixture of ether and acetone to form crystals. The crystals thus obtained were recovered by filtration and then washed several times with a mixture of ether and acetone. The products were recrystallized from a mixed solvent of ethanol and acetone 1 3 to obtain 2,4 dimethyl 3 N dodecyl thiazolinium p chlorobenzene sulfonate. iii A 14.3 g amount of the 2 butylthio 3 butyl4 methyl thiazlinium p toluene sulfonate obtained in i above and 10 g of the 2,4 dimethyl 3 dodecyl thiazolinium p chlorobenzenesulfonate obtained in ii above were dissolved in 60 ml of ethanol. To the resultant solution, 20 ml of triethylamine was added and the mixture was allowed to react at a temperature of 600C for 6 hours while stirring. The solvent was distilled from the reaction mixture in vacuo. To the residue, 30 ml of methanol and, subsequently, 20 g of potassium iodide were added. The mixture was heated for one hour on a water bath and was then cooled to form yellow crystals The crystals were recovered by filtration and thoroughly washed with water and, subsequently, with a mixture of ethanol and ether. Thus, the desired compound having the following properties was obtained. m.p. 224 2250C nm 410 max IR KBr vmax 3050, 2920, 2850, 1520, 1380, 1280 Example 2 Synthesis of 2 2 3 dodecyl 4 methyl 4 thiazolin 2 ylidene methyl 3 butyl 4 methyl thiazolinium chloride The desired compound was prepared by treating the compound obtained in Example 1 with silver chloride.The properties of the resultant compound are as follows m.p. 203 2040C max nm 411 IR KBr vmax 3100, 2920, 2850, 1530, 1380, 1350, 1280 Example 3 Synthesis of 2 2 3 dodecyl 4 methyl 4 thiazolin 2 ylidene methyl 3 ethyl 4 methyl thiazolinium iodide The desired compound was prepared from 2 ethylthio3 ethyl 4 methyl thiazolinium iodide and 2,4 dimethyl 3dodecyl thiazolinium p chlorobenzene sulfonate in the same manner as in the procedure iii of Example 1. The properties of the resultant compound are as follows m.p. 206 2070C nm 410 max IR KBr vmax 3050, 2910, 2850, 1520, 1430, max 1380, 1340, 1170 Example 4 Synthesis of 2 2 3 butyl 4 methyl 4 thiazolin 2 ylidene methyl 3 heptyl 5 methyl thiazolinium iodide The desired compound was prepared from 2,5 dimethy 3 heptyl thiazolinium iodide ard 2 butylthio 3 butyl 4 methyl thiazolinium p toluenesulfonate in the same manner as in the procedure iii of Example 1.The properties of the resultant compound are as follows m.p. 189 1930C X nm 413 max IR KBr 3070, 2930, 2850, 1530, 1290, max 1210, 860 Example 5 Synthesis of 2 2 3 butyl 4 metnyl 4 thiazolin 2 ylidene methyl 3 heptyl 4,5 dimethyl thiazolinium iodide The desired compound was prepared from 2,4,5 trimethyl 3 heptyl thiazolinium iodide and 2 butylthio 3 butyl 4 methyl thiazolinium p toluenesulfonate in the same manner as in the procedure ofExample 1.The properties of the resultant compound are as follows m.p. 199 2010C Amax nm 417 IR KBr vmax 3070, 2910, 2850, 1520, 1370, 1260, 1210 Example 6 Synthesis of 2 t2 3 butyl 4 methyl 4 thiazolin 2 ylidene methyl 3 methyl 4 hexyl 5 methyl thia zolinium perchlorate The desired compound was prepared from 2,5dimethyl 4 hexyl 3 methylthiazolinium iodide and 2 butylthio 3 butyl 4 methyl thiazolinium p toluenesulfonate in the same manner as in the procedure iii of Example 1, followed by treating the resultant iodide with sodium perchlorate. The properties of the resultant compound are as follows m.p. 136 1370C Bmax nm 416 IR KBr Mmax 3120, 2960, 2940, 2850, 1560, 1280, 1090, 860 Example 7 Synthesis of 2 2 3 butyl 4 methyl 4 thiazolin 2 ylidene methyl 3 decyl 5 methyl thiazolinium iodide The desired compound was prepared from 2,5dimethyl 3 decylthiazolinium iodide and 2 butylthio 3butyl 4 methyl thiazolinium p toluenesulfonate in the same manner as in the procedure iii of Example 1.The properties of the resultant compound are as follows m.p. 180 1810C nm 413 max IR KBr vmax 2810, 2650, 1520, 1360, 1280, max 1200 Example 8 Synthesis of 2 2 3 decyl 4 methyl 4 thiazolin 2 ylidene methyl 3 butyl 4 methylthiazolinium iodide The desired compound was prepared from 2,4dimethyl 3 decylthiazolinium iodide and 2 butylthio 3butyl 4 methylthiazolinium p toluenesulfonate in the same manner as in the procedure iii of Example 1.The properties of the resultant compound are as follows m.p. 225 2260C max nm 413 Example 9 Synthesis of 2 2 3 2 hydroxyethyl 4 methyl 4 thiazolin 2 ylidene methyl 3 butyl 4 methylthia zolinium chloride The desired compound was prepared from 2,4 dimethyl 3 2 hydroxyethyl thiazolinium iodide and 2 butylthio 3 butyl 4 methylthiazolinium p toluenesulfonate in the same manner as in the procedure iii of Example 2.The properties of the resultant compound are as follows m.p. 2220C nm 412 max Example 10 Effect of methincyanine compound on hepatic necro cytosis induced by carbon tetrachloride in vitro Liver cells were prepared according to a method disclosed in Nakamura et al Proteins, Nucleic Acids, and Enzymes Vol. 24, pages 55 76 1981 That is, the rat liver cells, which were previously peritoneally treated with phenobarbital at 80 mg kg day for 3 days, were collected by centrifugal separation after being subjected to 0.05 collagenase perfusion. The liver cells thus obtained were suspended in aWilliam s E culture medium containing 10 fetal calf 6 serum, dexamethasone 10 6 M and insulin 0.02 unit ml . A 3 ml amount of the cell dispersion having a cell 5 content of 5 x 10 cells ml was placed in a 25 mm Falcon dish and was then incubated at a temperature of 370C under an atmosphere of 5 CO2 and 95 air for 3 hours. After 3 hours incubation, the number of surviving liver cells in the incubated dish was measured according to a trypan blue exclusion test. The average value thereof was used as a control value for the survival percentage of the liver cells in the pre incubation Then, a culture medium containing 2 2 3 heptyl4 methyl 4 thiazolin 2 ylidene methyll 3 heptyl thiazolinium iodide i.e., pionin dissolved in ethanol was substituted after removing non adhesive cells and was then incubated for a further one hour.The concentrations of pionin in the culture medium were 0.94 x l06, 1.8 x 10 1 x 1 x 10 Ix 1 x 10 9, and 1 x 10 10 mole and, as a control or comparative test, the culture medium itself, the culture medium containing 0.5 of ethanol, and the culture medium containing 0.25 vm ml of carbon tetrachloride were used. Then, 0.25 um ml of carbon tetrachloride was added to each culture dish and the incubation was carried out for a further 3 hours under the same conditions mentioned above. No further carbon tetrachloride was added to the comparative culture containing carbon tetrachloride.After 3 hours incubation, the number of survival liver cells was measured according to a trypan blue exclusion test. The percentage ratio of the mean survival number to the survival number of the above mentioned pre incubation was then calculated. The results are shown in Table 1, in which the mean survival cell percentage and standard deviation thereof in the culture dish containing 4 to 29 liver cells i.e., N . Statistical significance was evaluated by Student s t test. Table 1 Survival No. Sample ratio N 1 Control 87.2 17.3 2 16 2 Ethanol 81.6 18.3 16 3 CCl4 34.2 12.1 29 4 CC14 Pionin 1 x 10 10 M 63.2 23.fl 2 4 5 1 x 10 M 63.4 6.8 2 4 6 1 X 10 8 M 63.5 19.0 4 7 ft 1.8 x 10 7 M 47.1 8.1 2 12 8 n n 0.94 x 10 6 M 43.6 11.6 1 12 1 The difference between test Nos. 3 and 8 is regarded as significant with a level of significance of 1 2 The differences between these tests and test No. 3 are regarded as significant with a level of significance of 5 As is clear from the results of Table 1, pionin has an activity capable of inhibiting liver necrocytosis. Example 11 Effect of methincyanine compound on hepatic disorders induced by D galactosamine In the evaluation tests, 8 to 9 weeks old Wister male rats were used. Five rats were used in each test group. The rats were given standard chow and water ad libitum. D Galactosamine hydrochloride GalN was dissolved in sterilized physiological saline and the pH thereof was adjusted to 7. The resultant solution was peritoneally administered to each rat at a dosage of 250 mg kg.To one control group, only GalN was injected, and physiological saline was administered to the other control group instead of pionin. Furthermore, only physiological saline but no GalN was injected to the physiological saline administration group. The pionin was administered as follows. It is diluted 10, 100, and 1000 times with dextrose and these diluted powders were dissolved in saline. All drugs were intravenously or orally administered at doses of 0.1, 0.5, 1, and 10 vg kg. The administration was carried out from five days before to the day after theGalN injection. The rats were killed two days after the injection of GalN and blood was collected. The blood samples were allowed to stand at room temprature for one hour and serum was then centrifugally separated at 2500 rpm for 10 minutes. The determination of GOT and GPT in the serum samples was carried out according to a modification of the Reitman Framkel method see Amir. J. Clin. Pothil.28, 56 1957 and J. Clin. Invest. 34, 131 1955 , the determination of bilirubin was carried out according to a modification of Jendrassik Grof method see ClinicalChemistry, 19, 984 993 1973 , and the determination of the complement value was carried out according to theMayer method see Experimental Immunochemistry, 2, 133 240, 1961 . The results are shown in Table 2 i.e., intravenous administration of pionin and Table 3 i.e., oral administration of pionin . Disodium cromoglycate i.e.,DSCG was used as a control. Table 2 GalN Enzyme activity Bilirubin Complement i.p. GOT K.U. GPT K.U. mg dl value 1 Physiological 120 40 97 30 0.09 100 saline 2 Control 1920 120 1030 98 0.88 91.1 3 Pionin 550 160 510 62 0.51 88.2 0.1 g kg 4 Pionin 420 30 300 55 0.35 96.6 0.5 iig kg 5 Pionin 780 29 600 40 0.44 91.2 1 Vg kg 6 Pionin 1036 50 980 39 0.77 87.6 10 vg kg 7 DSCG i.p. 400 42 220 20 0.29 88.4 1 mg kg Table 3 GaiN Enzyme activity Bilirubin ComplementNo. i.p. GOT 1K.U. GPT K.U. mg dl value 1 Physiological 88 20 101 31 0.07 100 saline 2 Control 1330 220 1100 66 0.91 92.2 3 Pionin 1200 198 1003 87 0.77 86.1 0.1 iig kg 4 Pionin 622 100 550 51 0.36 91.1 0.5 ug kg 5 Pionin 710 30 440 13 0.55 92.3 1 vg kg 6 Pionin 1350 136 1200 188 0.88 88.8 10 vg kg 7 DSCG i.p. 480 50 230 33 0.21 80.4 1 mg kg As is clear from the results shown in Tables 2 and 3, pionin according to the present invention can inhibit an increase in the GOT and GPT activities and in the concentration of bilirubin and, therefore, can inhibit liver disorders induced by D galactosamine. Example 12 Effect of methincyanine compounds on hepatic necrocytosis induced by carbon tetrachloride in vivo In the evaluation tests, 6 weeks old SD male rats were used. As shown in Tables 4 to 6, 5 to 10 rats were used in each test group. The rats were freely fed or supplied with a solid feed and drinking water. Carbon tetrachloride CC14 was diluted with an olive oil and was peritoneally injected in each rat at a dosage of 0.5 ml kg. To the control group, only CCl4 diluted with the olive oil and a 5 gum arabic solution containing no active ingredient were administered.Furthermore, only the olive oil but no CCl4 was administered to the olive oil injection group in theTables. The methincyanine compounds listed in Tables 4 to 6 were administered as follows. Methincyanine compounds were diluted 100 times with dextrose dissolved in 5 gum arabic solutions. All drugs were orally administered at the dosages shown in Tables 4 to 6. The administration schedules were such that the methiocyanine compounds were administered 6 times in total from 5 days before the CC14 injection to the day of the injection. Blood was sampled from the orbital veniplex of the rat and was allowed to stand at room temperature for one hour. The blood sample was then centrifugally separated at 2800 rpm for 10 minutes. The resultant supernatant was used as a serum sample. The determination of GOT and GPT in the serum sample was carried out by using a determination kit available from Boeklinger Yamanouchi Co. and the results were recorded in an automatic analyzer available from FLEXIGEM Co. . The results are as shown in Tables 4 to 6. Table 4 Nethincyanine No. of Dosage Enzyme Activity Compounds rats g kg GOT U L GPT U L Olive oil 10 169.0 19.4 48.7 5.7 Control n 1272.0 332.3 346.2 85.5 Pionin 1 678.3 76.5 209.0 31.2 n n 3 754.5 108.8 269.7 50.3 10 n 10 559.2 56.6 165.8 25.9 n n 30 946.8 110.6 311.4 49.4 P 0.05 i.e., level of significance 5 P 0.01 i.e., level of significance 1 As is clear from the results of Table 4, pionin has an activity capable of inhibiting liver necrocytosis induced by CCl4 , since it inhibits the increase in the GOT and GPT activities induced by CCl4 also in the in vivo tests. Table 5 Enzyme Activity Methincyanine No. of Dosage Compounds rats llg g GOT U L GPT U L Olive oil 5 110 17 34 4 Control 6 547 83 173 42 Compound of 8 10 435 67 107 18 Example 3 Compound of 7 310 68 99 27 Example 8 Compound of 8 386 50 118 21 Example 4 Compound of 8 393 59 135 29 Example 5 P 0.05 P 0.01 As is clear from the results shown in Tab le 5, the methiocyanine compounds according to the present invention having the general formula II i.e., the compounds having the different substituents in R1 andR2 are capable of strongly inhibiting liver necrocytosis induced by CCl4. Table 6 Enzyme Activity Methincyanine No. of Dosage Enzyme Activity Compounds rats ug kg GOT U L1 GPT U L Olive oil 5 138 8 32 2 Control 8 1120 380 321 123 Pionin n 10 807 172 251 83 Compound of n n 627 92 198 37 Example 1 As is clear from the results shown in Table 6, the present compounds having the general formula II such as the compound of Example 1, i.e., R1 butyl,R2 dodecyl in general formula II exhibit the strong inhibiting activities against liver necrocytosis induced by CC14 when compared with pionin i.e.,R1 R2 heptyl . Example 13 Preparation of tablets The following ingredients were mixed and the mixture was formed into tablets in a conventional manner. Ingredient g Pionin 0.2 Polyvinylpyrrolidone M.W. 40,000 50,000 300 Carboxymethyl cellulose 190 Magnesium stearate 10 Thus, the desired tablets each containing 200 iig of pionin were prepared. Example 14 Preparation of ointments A 25 g amount of white vaseline, 22 g of stearyl alcohol, 12 g of propylene glycol, 1.5 g of sodium lauryl sulfate, 0.025 g of ethyl p hydroxybenzoate, and 0.013 g of propyl p hydroxybenzoate were added to purified water to a total weight of 100 g. This, a hydrophilic ointment was prepared. To 100 g of the ointment thus obtained, 50 mg of pionin was added and thoroughly mixed therewith. Thus, the desired ointment containing 500 vg of pionin per 1 g of the ointment was obtained.