# Expression in e.coli of hybrid polypeptides containing the growth hormone releasing factor sequence.

## Abstract
New plasmid vectors are described which contain the entire Trp regulon including promoter, operator, leader and attenuator as well as methods for expression of hybrid polypeptides in The hybrid polypeptides contain the heterelogous sequence of GRF 44, 40, 37 or 29.

## Claims
1. A structural gene coding for Trp GRF.

## Description
A group of substances called growth hormone releasing factors GRF have recently been isolated from the pancreatic tumor of an acromegalic pa tient. Guillemin et al, Science Several forms of GRF have been purified and their amino acid sequences determined. GRF 44 contains the complete amino acid sequence of GRF 40 and is extended at the carboxyl terminus by four amino acids. In turn, GRF 40 contains the complete amino acid sequence of GRF 37 and is extended at the carboxyl terminus by three amino acids. The peptide GRF 29 J. River et al., Nature Only the carboxyl terminus of GRF 44 Leu is amidated GRF NH₂ 44 . It is believed that the GRF NH₂ 44 is the mature hormone and that GRF 40, 37 and 29 are proteolytic derivatives of it, although all the above men tioned GRFs are biologically active. It has been reported that GRFs act on both synthesis and releasing of growth hormone by the pituitary gland. Brazeau et al, Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci., It has been suggested that the GRF 44 peptide isolated from the hypotha lamus hhGRF was identical to that derived from pancreatic tumor hpGRF and in fact, immunoreactivity was detected between hhGRF and antibodies raised against hpGRF. Additionally, both peptides gave the same profile when analyzed by HPLC Bohlen et al, Biochem. Biophys. Res. Commun., The synthesis and characterization of complementary DNA to messenger RNA isolated from the pancreatic tumor that produces hpGRF have demonstrated that the GRF 44 is produced as a pre prohormone having 107 108 amino aci ds and the GRF extends from amino acid residue 32 to amino acid residue 75. Gubler et al, Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci., The Gly Arg following the GRF 44 sequence resembles a typical amidation site Boel et al, The EMBO J. The GRFs can be utilized therapeutically in most of the areas now consi dered candidates for treatment by growth hormone. Examples of such thera peutic uses include treatment of pituitary dwarfism, diabetes determined by abnormal growth hormone production, treatment of wounds and severe burns. The size of GRF in its several forms is such as to allow its preparation by conventional peptide synthesis methods. Several GRF derivates have indeed been produced by these means and found to be biologically active Murphy et al, Biochem. Biophys. Res. Commun., European patent application, publication N. 0108387, describes the prepa ration of synthetic DNA molecules coding for various forms of GRF preceded by a methionine codon which allows, after insertion in an appro priate expression vector, the direct synthesis of a methionylated GRF by an appropriate microorganism. A method is described involving the prepa ration of two series of oligodeoxyribonucleotide fragments which, when joined in the proper sequence, yield two double stranded DNA molecules coding for the amino and carboxy terminals, respectively, of the GRF peptide. The two double stranded DNA molecules are ligated together to yield the desired GRF structural gene. The preferred expression vectors are deriva tes of plasmid pBR322 containing the P This invention relates to the production of a GRF by means of a hybrid polypeptide obtained through recombinant DNA techniques and the material used therein. The hybrid polypeptide contains amino acids 1 323 of TrpE coupled in sequence to the amino acid Trp and the aminoacid sequence of GRF. A non amidated GRF can be obtained by reduction and carboxyamidomethyla tion, specific cleavage of the Trp residue followed by gel filtration and purification of GRF by HPLC. Accordingly, it is the object of this invention to provide a method for the production of GRF as a hybrid polypeptide coded by a plasmid and ba sed on the use of E. Coli Trp promoter operator followed by Trp leader and attenuator, by the ribosomal binding site of the TrpE gene, by DNA coding for the first two thirds of the TrpE polypeptide, a Trp codon, and by the gene coding for GRF peptide. Another object of this invention is to provide for the synthesis of a DNA molecule which codes for GRF preceded by a TGG codon for Trp and the nucleotide sequence that allows insertion of this molecule within a pla smid carrying TrpE structural gene while maintaining it in a correct reading frame. A further object of this invention is to provide a method for growing the microorganism containing the plasmid of the invention to allow the synthesis of a high quantity of the hybrid TrpE GRF polypeptide. A still further object of the invention is to provide a method for the extraction of the hybrid polypeptide and for the separation of the desi red GRF peptide therefrom through a series of steps. These and other objects of the invention will be apparent to those skil led in the art from the following detailed description in which Because of the presence of several restriction enzyme sites on the GRF 44 DNA molecule it is possible to derive another three molecules that con stitute a further aspect of this invention, i.e. coding for GRF 40, GRF 37 and GRF 29 peptides. In fact, the DNA molecule can be degraded with the NarI restriction enzyme and the 3 end fragment can be replaced with the following oligo nucleotide A DNA molecule coding for GRF 37 can be obtained as follows By degrading the DNA molecule in Fig. 1 with XbaI restriction enzyme and substituting the 3 end fragment with the following oligonucleotide The construction of the pSP19 plasmid and the preparation of the plasmid derived TrpE GRF 44 hybrid polypeptide were accomplished as follows. Fig. 4 shows the construction of pSP19 plasmid by insertion of the synthetic gene within the pSP2del plasmid. Tc The nucleotide sequence of Trp GRF44 gene allows the synthesis of a hybrid polypeptide between partial TrpE and GRF44 separated by a tryptophane residue. The Trp is degradable by idosobenzoic acid as hereunder described. The hybrid polypeptide coded by pSP19 plasmid DNA has the aminoacid sequence shown in Fig. 5 and is conventionally indicated as TrpE GRF. The first 323 aminoacids represent the first two thirds of the TrpE, which are followed by a trp residue and the GRF44 aminoacid sequence. The TrpE GRF is therefore composed of 368 aminoacids. Cells of strain W3110 Δ TrpE5tna2 pSP19 were grown overnight in 300 ml of SMM Spizizer Minimal medium containing per litre of acqueous solu tion After sterilization by autoclaving the following were added 10 ml of 40 glucose 3.5 µg ml of indole. The culture about 4.3 x 10⁸ cells ml was diluted in 10 litres of the same medium and the cells were grown under agitation and insufflation of 1 litre of air at 1 Atm pressure per minute. The composition of the medium and the growth conditions in a 10 litres fermentor have been demonstrated to be ideal to maintain the pSP19 carry ing Trp promoter derepressed thus allowing expression of the TrpE GRF polypeptide and also to allow the growth of the cells. After 22 25 hours of growth the culture reached an OD of about 3.0 at 590 nm. The cells were harvested by centrifugation and stored at 80 C. A sample of these cells was used to analyze the protein content by polyacy lamide gel electrophoresis demonstrating the presence of the desired TrpE GRF polypeptide. The acqueous phase was diluted four times with H₂O and the hybrid pro tein was precipitated by adding 144 g of NH₄ ₂SO₄ per liter final solution. The precipitated proteins were pelletted by centrifugation, dissolved in water and extensively dyalized against 10 mM NH₄HCO₃. The dyalisate was then analyzed by PAGE and lyophilized. The TrpE GRF polypeptide was submitted to a series of chemical reactions hereunder described, to allow the separation of GRF peptide moiety.