# Silver halide photosensitive materials for color photography.

## Abstract
A silver halide photosensitive material is disclosed for color photography which comprises a novel phenol type cyan coupler having the formula The cyan coupler mentioned above is a novel cyan dye image forming coupler and the photosensitive material containing the same according to the present invention has removed the various drawbacks in the prior art.

## Claims
1. A silver halide photosensitive material suitable for color photography which comprises a phenol type cyan coupler having the formula wherein X¹ is CN X² is a halogen atom, a hydroxy group, a nitro group or an optionally substituted alkyl, alkylcarbonyloxy, arylcarbony loxy, alkoxy, aryloxy, alkylcarbonyl or arylcarbonyl group Y, when present, is a group of non metallic atoms which completes a 5 or 6 membered condensed ring Z is a hydrogen atom or a group removable upon coupling with an oxidation product of a color developing agent Ball is a ballast group and n is 0 or an integer from 1 to 4 inclusive such that, when n is 2 or more, each X² may be the same or different.

## Description
This invention relates to a silver halide photo sensitive material for color photography containing a novel cyan dye image forming coupler. A color image is usually formed by oxidative coupling of the oxidation product, which is formed by reduction of the exposed silver halide grains with an aromatic primary amine type color developing agent, with a coupler capable of forming yellow magenta or cyan dye in a silver halide emulsion. As the coupler which is typically employed for forming the cyan dye, there may be mentioned phenols and naphthols. The basic properties required for the phenols used as couplers are that the dye obtained has good spectral absorption characteristics, i.e., the spectrum has no absorption in green region, but sharp absorption, that the dye formed shows sufficient fastness to light, heat, moisture and the like as well as good colorability, i.e., the dye shows sufficient color sensitivity and density and further that there is no loss of the dye even if the bleaching or bleach fix bath used containing EDTA iron III complex as main ingredient becomes exhausted. Moreover, it has been a serious problem in order to avoid environmental pollution to remove the benzyl alcohol incorporated into a color developing agent. However, the present situation is that a satisfactory color development can not be generally accomplished unless benzyl alcohol is added. A particularly remarkable reduction in color development can be seen with a phenol cyan coupler when benzyl alcohol is removed. From this point of view, there is a demand for a phenol cyan coupler with higher color development even if benzyl alcohol is not present. In order to meet the aforesaid requirements, various studies have been made, but there has not yet been found a coupler capable of perfectly meeting all the foregoing properties. For instance, as disclosed in U.S. Patent No. 2,801,171, 6 α 2,4 di tert amylphenoxy butaneamido 2,4 di chloro 3 methylphenol shows a good fastness to light, but has poor heat fastness, a great loss of the dye in an exhausted bleach fix bath as well as a large color reliance on benzyl alcohol and difficult removal of benzyl alcohol from the color developing agent. U.S. Patent No. 2,895,826 discloses 2 heptafluorobutaneamido 5 α 2,4 di tert amylphenoxy hexaneamido phenol, which shows excellent heat fastness and lack of loss of dye in an exhausted bleach fix bath, but has inferior light fastness and color development. The coupler disclosed in Japanese Patent Laid open Application No. 53 10963 encounters problems about removal of benzyl alcohol and also light fastness. Further, those phenol type cyan couplers disclosed in U.S. Patent No. 3,839,044, Japanese Patent Laid open Application No. 47 37425, Japanese Patent Publication No. 48 36894, Japanese Patent Laid open Applications No. 50 10135, No. 50 117422, No. 50 130441, No. 50 108841 and No. 50 120334 are regarded as unsatisfactory with regard to heat fastness and removal of benzyl alcohol. The phenol couplers having a ureido group at the 2 position thereof disclosed in British Patent No. 1,011,940 and U.S. Patents No. 3,446,622, No. 3,996,253, No. 3,758,308, No. 3,880,661 and the like tend to form cyan dyes which show broad spectral absorption and, further, considerable absorption within the green region of the spectrum due to the maximum absorption in the red region or a relatively short wave range, which seems to be unfavourable in color reproduction. Other phenol couplers having a ureido group at the 2 position thereof as disclosed in Japanese Patent Laid open Application No. 56 65134 equivalent to European A 0028099 shows a considerably improved green absorption, but are still unsatisfactory in other respects. We have made strenuous efforts to improve this situation and, as a result, have found that the couplers defined below substantially meet the above recited characteristics required for a phenol cyan coupler. More specifically, the silver halide photosensitive material for color photography according to the present invention is characterized by comprising a phenol type cyan coupler having the formula I In the above formula, X² represents an optionally substituted alkyl group, an alkylcarbonyloxy or arylcarbonyloxy group, an alkoxy group, an alkylcarbonyl or arylcarbonyl group or an aryloxy group. As the alkyl group, there is preferably mentioned a C₁ to C₅ straight or branched alkyl group illustrative examples thereof include methyl, ethyl, isopropyl, butyl, tert pentyl, chloromethyl, acetonyl and phenethyl. As the alkylcarbonyloxy or arylcarbonyloxy group, there may be mentioned a C₁ to C₅ alkylcarbonyloxy group and an arylcarbonyloxy group such as acetoxy, propionyloxy, pivaloyloxy, benzoyloxy, and naphthoyloxy. As the alkoxy or aryloxy group, there is preferably mentioned a C₁ to C₅ alkoxy group and an aromatic alkoxy group illustrative examples thereof include methoxy, tert butoxy, ethoxy methoxy, substituted or unsubstituted phenoxy. As the alkylcarbonyl or arylcarbonyl group, there is preferably mentioned a C₁ to C₅ alkylcarbonyl group and an arylcarbonyl group such as acetyl, pivaloyl, acetoacetyl, benzoyl, naphthoyl and toluyl. Also, the phenyl group of the phenylureido portion in the coupler may have a condensed ring formed by the group Y. Where the said phenyl group has the condensed ring, the substituent X² may be located on the phenyl moiety or the said condensed ring moiety. The condensed ring formed by the group Y may be, for example, naphthalene, quinoline, benzothiophene, benzofuran or isocoumaran. As illustrative examples of the group Z which may be removed in a coupling reaction, there may be mentioned, for example, a halogen atom, e.g., chlorine, bromine or fluorine atom an aryloxy group, a carbamoyloxy group, a carbamoylmethoxy group, an alkylcarbonyloxy or arylcarbonyloxy group, a sulfonamido group, a succinimido group, oxygen or nitrogen atom being attached directly to the coupling site in the said groups. Further examples thereof include those disclosed in U.S. Patent No. 3,471,563, Japanese Patent Laid open Application No. 47 37425, Japanese Patent Publication No. 48 36894, Japanese Patent Laid open Applications No. 50 10135, No. 50 117422, No. 50 130441, No. 51 108841, No. 50 120334, No. 52 18315, No. 53 52423 and No. 53 105226. The ballasted acylamino group Ball substituted at the 5 position in the phenyl moiety acts as the ballast which can maintain the coupler in a specific layer so as to substantially prevent the said coupler dispersing to any other layer in a multi layer color photographic element and should, therefore, possess sufficient bulkiness for such purposes. Illustrative examples thereof include an arylcarbonylamino group and an alkylcarbonylamino group. In the case of the arylcarbonylamino group, the aromatic ring should have substituent s having a C₅ to C₁₈ alkyl chain. Such substituents having a C₅ to C₁₈ alkyl chain include, for example, an alkyl group, an alkylcarbonyl or arylcarbonyl oxy group, an alkylcarbonyl or arylcarbonyl amino group, a sulfonylamino group, an alkoxycarbonyl group, a carbamoyl group, a sulfamoyl group, an alkylamino group or a dialkylamino group. In the case of the alkylcarbonylamino group, there may be typically mentioned those wherein the aliphatic moiety is a C₅ to C₁₈ alkyl group, a phenoxyalkyl group or a phenylthioalkyl group. In the case of the phenoxyalkyl or phenylthioalkyl group, the phenoxy moiety may have a substituent having a C₅ to C₁₈ alkyl chain or the alkyl moiety may have 5 to 18 carbon atoms. As the ballasted alkylcarbonyl or arylcarbonyl amino group in the present coupler, Ball is particularly a phenoxyalkyl group or a phenylthioalkyl group. Illustrative examples of the alkylcarbonyl or arylcarbonyl amino group ballasted with a phenoxyalkyl group are recited below. α 3 Pentadecylphenoxy butaneamido, α 2,4 di tert amylphenoxy hexaneamido, γ 2,4 di tert amylphenoxy butaneamido, α 2,4 di tert amylphenoxy tetradecaneamido, α 4 butylsulfonylaminophenoxy tetradecaneamido, α 4, acetoxyphenoxy dodecaneamido, α p α 4 hydroxyphenyl α,α dimethyl tolyloxy dodecaneamido, α 4 carboxyphenoxy dodecaneamido, α 2 chloro 4 butylsulfonylaminophenoxy tetra decaneamido, α 4 dimethylaminosulfonylaminophenoxy tetra decaneamido, α 3 dodecyloxyphenoxy butaneamido, α 4 dodecyloxyphenoxy butaneamido, α 4 hydroxyphenylthio dodecaneamido, and α 4 acetylaminophenylthio dodecaneamido. Of the couplers which may be employed in this invention, there is preferably mentioned the coupler of the formula I wherein the phenylureido group substituted at the 2 position of the phenyl moiety has the following formula Another preferable coupler of the present invention has the formula II Illustrative examples of the coupler, which may be employed in the photosensitive material for color photography according to this invention, are given hereinbelow. The couplers which may be employed in this invention can be prepared by reacting a substituted p cyano phenyl isocyanate with a suitable aminophenol, for example, 2 amino 5 nitrophenol or 2 amino 4 chloro 5 nitrophenol to produce a 2 substituted p cyano phenyl ureido compound. Then, the nitro group of the latter compound is reduced to the amino group in a conventional manner and the ballast group is attached to the said amino group to produce the desired coupler. Representative synthesis examples of the present coupler are given below. A suspension of 15.4 g. of 2 amino 5 nitrophenol in 300 mℓ. of toluene was refluxed. A solution of 17.4 g. of p cyano m methoxyphenyl isocyanate in 150 mℓ. of toluene was added dropwise thereto. After completion of the dropwise addition, the resulting mixture was heated under reflux for 1 hour and then cooled. The precipitate was filtered and washed successively with hot toluene and alcohol to give 22 g. of the end product. The nitrophenol produced in A 6.6 g. was subjected to hydrogenation at ordinary temperature and atmos pheric pressure in 200 mℓ. of alcohol using palladium carbon catalyst. After the catalyst was filtered off, the filtrate was concentrated and the residue was dissolved in 200 mℓ. of acetonitrile. To the resulting solution were added 1.6 g. of pyridine and then 9.5 g. of 2 4 butylsulfonylaminophenoxy tetra decanoyl chloride under stirring at room temperature. After stirring was continued at room temperature for 5 hours, the reaction mixture was poured into water, extracted with ethyl acetate. The ethyl acetate was distilled off and the residue crystallized from methanol and then acetonitrile to give 7.2 g. of the end product, which was identified by mass spectrum and NMR spectrum. A mixture of 18.8 g. of 2 amino 4 chloro 5 nitro phenol, 27.3 g. of phenyl o chloro p cyanophenyl carbamate and 0.6 g. of imidazole in 400 mℓ. of xylene was heated under reflux for 5 hours. After cooling, the precipitate was filtered off and the residue was washed with xylene and then alcohol to give 23.5 g. of the end product. The nitrophenol produced in A 11 g. was subjected to hydrogenation at ordinary temperature and atmos pheric pressure in 300 mℓ. of alcohol using palladium carbon catalyst. After completion of the reaction, the catalyst was filtered off, the filtrate was concentrated and to the residue were added 250 mℓ. of acetonitrile. To the resulting mixture were added 2.4 g. of pyridine and then 12.3 g. of 2 3 penta decylphenol butanoyl chloride under stirring at room temperature. After stirring at room temperature for 6 hours, the reaction mixture was poured into water and extracted with ethyl acetate. The ethyl acetate was distilled off and the residue was chromatographed over silica gel using as eluant benzene ethyl acetate. The fractions containing the end product were combined and the solvent was distilled off. The residue was recrystallized from methanol to give 5.8 g. of the end product, which was identified by mass spectrum and NMR spectrum. To a suspension of 18.9 g. of 2 amino 4 chloro 5 nitrophenol in 200 mℓ. of toluene was added a solution of 16 g. of o cyanophenyl isocyanate in 100 mℓ. of toluene under stirring at room temperature. The resulting mixture was boiled under reflux for 1 hour and then allowed to cool to room temperature. The crystalline substance thus separated was filtered, washed with hot toluene and then cold methanol to give 31 g. of the product with mp 251 255 C. A suspension of 3.3 g. of the so obtained 2 o cyano phenyl ureido 4 chloro 5 nitrophenol in 200 mℓ. of tetrahydrofuran was subjected to catalytic reduction using palladium carbon catalyst. After a theoretical volume of hydrogen was absorbed, 0.9 mℓ. of pyridine was added to the reaction mixture and then a solution of 3.7 g. of 2 2,4 di tert pentylphenoxy hexanoyl chloride in 50 mℓ. of tetrahydrofuran was added thereto under stirring at room temperature. After completion of the addition, the reaction was continued for further 1 hour and the catalyst was filtered off. The filtrate was added to ice water containing 10 mℓ. of conc. hydrochloric acid and extracted with ethyl acetate. The extract was washed with water, dried over sodium sulfate and concentrated under reduced pressure to leave an oily substance. The substance was solidified with a mixture of benzene with hexane to give 2.6 g. of the end product as a white solid with mp 163 168 C. To a suspension of 18.9 g. of 2 amino 4 chloro 5 nitrophenol in 200 mℓ. of toluene was added a solu tion of 16 g. of m cyanophenyl isocyanate in 100 mℓ. of toluene under stirring at room temperature. The resulting mixture was boiled under reflux for 1 hour. Thereafter, the reaction mixture was allowed to cool to room temperature. The crystalline substance thus separated was filtered, washed with hot toluene and then cold methanol and dried over sodium sulfate to give 33 g. of the product with mp 255 259 C. A suspension of 3.3 g. of the so obtained 2 m cyano phenyl ureido 4 chloro 5 nitrophenol in 200 mℓ. of tetrahydrofuran was subjected to catalytic reduction using palladium carbon catalyst. After a theoretical volume of hydrogen was absorbed, 0.9 mℓ. of pyridine was added to the reaction mixture and a solution of 4.8 g. of 2 2,4 di tert pentylphenoxy tetradecanoyl chloride in 50 mℓ. of tetrahydrofuran was added there to under stirring at room temperature. After comple tion of the addition, the reaction was continued for further 1 hour. The catalyst was filtered off, the filtrate was added to ice water containing 10 mℓ. of conc. hydrochloric acid and extracted with ethyl acetate. The extract was washed with water, dried over sodium sulfate and concentrated under reduced pressure to leave an oily substance. The substance was purified by silica gel column chromatography and solidified with hexane to give 2.7 g. of the end product as a white solid with mp 185 188 C. The cyan dye forming coupler, which may be employed in this invention, can be used according to the methods and techniques commonly employed for conventional cyan dye forming couplers. Typically the coupler can be blended with a silver halide emulsion and the emulsion coated onto a base to form a photographic element. The photographic element may be monochromatic or multicolor one. In the case of a multicolor photographic element, the present cyan dye forming coupler is usually incorporated into a red sensitive emulsion, but the element will also contain a non sensitized emulsion or dye image forming constituent units having photosensitivity to the three primary colors of the spectrum. Each constituent unit may comprise a monoemulsion layer or a multi emulsion layer which has a photosensitivity to a certain region in spectrum. Element layers including the image forming constituent layer may be arranged in any optional order as is well known to those skilled in the art. Typical multi color photographic elements comprise a cyan dye forming image forming constituent unit, said unit comprising at least one red sensitive silver halide emulsion layer containing at least one cyan dye forming coupler at least one of the couplers being a coupler of this invention and a yellow dye image forming constituent unit, said unit comprising at least one blue sensitive silver halide emulsion layer containing at least one magenta dye forming coupler, both units being carried on a base. The element may further contain additional layers, for example a filter layer, an interlayer, a protective layer and a subbing layer. The present coupler may be incorporated into an emulsion according to any well known techniques. For instance, the present coupler alone or in combination with other ingredients may be dissolved in a high boiling organic solvent boiling point of 175 C. or above such as tricresyl phosphate or dibutyl phthalate or a low boiling organic solvent such as butyl acetate or butyl propionate alone or, if necessary, in combination therewith, the resulting solution is admixed with an aqueous solution of gelatin containing a surface active agent, the resulting mixture is then emulsified by a high speed rotary mixer or a colloid mixer and incorporated with a silver halide to prepare a silver halide emulsion which may be employed in this invention. The coupler of this invention is suitably employed in a range of usually about 0.07 0.7 mole, preferably 0.1 0.4 mole, per mole of silver halide of the silver halide emulsion. As the silver halide which may be employed in the present silver halide emulsion, there may be used any silver halide commonly employed for a silver halide emulsion such as silver bromide, silver chloride, silver iodobromide, silver chlorobromide or silver chloroiodo bromide. A silver halide emulsion for the present invention may be prepared by various conventional methods such as the method disclosed, for example, in Japanese Patent Publication No. 46 7772 namely, a method for preparing a so called conversion emulsion wherein a silver salt grain emulsion is formed, the said grain comprising at least partly a silver salt having a higher solubility than that of silver bromide, and then at least part of the said silver salt is converted to silver bromide or silver iodobromide, or a method for preparing the so called Lippmann emulsion comprising silver halide grains having an average grain size of not more than 0.1 µ. Moreover, the silver halide emulsion may be chemically sensitized with a sulfur sensitizer such as allylthio carbamide, thiourea or cystine, an active or inactive selenium sensitizer, a reduction sensitizer such as a stannous salt, a polyamine, a noble metal sensitizer such as a gold sensitizer, typically potassium aurithiocyanate, potassium chloroaurate or 2 aurosulfobenzothiazole methyl chloride, or a water soluble ruthenium, rhodium or iridium, for example, salt sensitizer, typically ammonium chloro palladate, potassium chloroplatinate or sodium chloro palladate alone or in any combination. The silver halide emulsion used herein may also contain a wide variety of well known photographic additives, for example, those disclosed in Research Disclosure , 1978, December, item 17643. The silver halide emulsion may be spectrally sensitized using any suitable sensitizing dyes in order to afford photosensitivity to the sensitive wave length region required for a red sensitive emulsion. One or more spectrally sensitizing dyes may be used, for example those cyanine dyes, merocyanine dyes or complex cyanine dyes disclosed in U.S. Patents No. 2,269,234, No. 2,270,378, No. 2,442,710, No. 2,454,629, No. 2,776,280. The color developing solution which may be employed in this invention preferably contains as a main ingredient an aromatic primary amine type color developing agent. Illustrative examples of such color developing agents are typically of the p phenylenediamine type for example, diethyl p phenylenediamine hydrochomethyl p phenylene diamine hydrochloride, dimethyl p phenylenediamine hydrochloride, 2 amino 5 diethyl aminotoluene hydrochloride, 2 amino 5 N ethyl N dodecylamino toluene, 2 amino 5 N ethyl N β methanesulfonamidoethyl aminotoluene sulfate, 4 N ethyl N β methanesulfonamidoethylamino aniline, 2 amino 5 N ethyl N β methoxyethyl aminotoluene and 4 N ethyl N β hydroxyethylamino aniline. After development, conventional steps of bleaching for removal of silver or silver halide, fixing or bleach fixing, washing and drying may be applied. The following Examples are given to illustrate this invention further. 0.03 mole of each of the couplers indicated in the following Table 1 and the following control couplers A, B and C was added separately to a mixture of the same weight of dibutyl phthalate and 3 times the volume of ethyl acetate and the mixture was heated to 60 C. to form a complete solution. The solution was added to an aqueous solution of Alkanol B alkylnaphthalene sulfonate, Registered Trade Mark of E.I. DuPont and gelatin, the resulting mixture was emulsified by a colloid mill to prepare coupler dispersions of each coupler. Then, each coupler dispersion was added to a silver chlorobromide emulsion 20 mole silver bromide containing 0.1 mole silver and the mixture was coated onto a polyethylene laminated paper and then dried to prepare 6 silver halide photosensitive materials for color photography having a stable coated film Samples No. 1 to No. 6 . Formulations for each step are given below. Color developing solution, composition 2 The same formulation as in the above composition 1 except that the benzyl alcohol was omitted. Each sample was assessed for its photographic character istics. The results are summarized in Table 1, wherein relative sensitivity values are represented in terms of the maximum sensitivity value when treated with the color developing solution 1 taken as 100. As can be seen from the above Table 1, the samples prepared from the present couplers show a good sensitivity and maximum density, irrespective of the presence or absence of benzyl alcohol. Further, assessment of the color spectra has revealed that the dyes with the present coupler show an absorption maximum within a relatively longer wave length range of the red region and little absorption within the short wave length range and thus show excellent color purity. The samples as prepared in the same manner as in the above Example 1 were tested for light fastness, heat fastness and moisture fastness of their dye images. The results are summarized in Table 2. In the above Table 2, light fastness is represented in terms of the residual density of each image after exposure to a xenon fadeometer over 300 hours, the density before exposure being taken as 100 moisture fastness is represented in terms of the residual density after storage under a relative humidity of 70 over 3 weeks, the density before testing being taken as 100 and heat fastness is represented in terms of the residual density after storage at 77 C over 3 weeks, the density before testing being taken as 100, provided that the initial density is 1.0. As is apparent from the above Table 2, the control coupler A possesses excellent light fastness, but not so good heat and moisture fastness, while control couplers B and C possess excellent heat and moisture fastness but not so good light fastness upon color development 2. In contrast, the present couplers Nos. 6, 8 and 17 are clearly excellent in every respect. 0.01 mole of each of the present couplers indicated in the following Table 3 and the above control couplers A and B and the following control coupler D was added separately to a mixture of the same weight of tricresyl phosphate and 3 times the volume of ethyl acetate and the resulting mixture was heated to 60 C. to form a complete solution. The solution was added to an aqueous solution of Alkanol B and gelatin, the resulting mixture was emulsified by a colloid mill to prepare coupler dispersions of each coupler. Then, each coupler dispersion was added to a silver iodobromide emulsion 6 mole silver iodide, containing 0.1 mole silver and the mixture was coated onto a cellulose acetate film base and then dried to prepare 6 silver halide photosensitive materials for color photography having a stable coated film Samples No. 13 to No. 18 . Each sample was subjected to wedge exposure according to a conventional method and then treated as stated hereunder. Adjusted to pH 6.0 with aqueous ammonia The produced cyan color images were assessed for photographic characteristics. The results are summarized in Table 3. As apparent from the above Table 3, the samples using the present coupler possess excellent sensi tivity and color development. Also, these samples containing couplers of the present invention as a result of spectral measurement, have been found to show an absorption maximum in a long wave length range of the red region and sharpness in a short wave length range and thus produce favourable dye images in color reproduction in the green region, as compared with the control couplers. The samples No. 1 to No. 6 prepared in the above Example 1 were subjected to wedge exposure and then developed with the composition 1 in Example 1, except that a developing treatment was carried out with a bleach fixing solution having the following composition to study discoloration of the cyan dye with an exhausted bleach fixing solution. The sample thus treated was assessed for reflection density of the cyan dye. The results are summarized in Table 4. Dye residual rate at the maximum density is calculated from the following equation. It can be seen from Table 4 that the sample using the present couplers show less discoloration of cyan dye when treated with exhausted bleach fixing solution. Samples prepared in the same manner as in the above Example 1 were tested for light fastness, heat fastness and moisture fastness. The results are summarized in Table 5. In the above Table 5, light fastness, moisture fastness and heat fastness are represented in the same manner as in the above Table 2. As can be seen from the above Table 5, the control couplers A, B and C can be evaluated as in Table 2. On the other hand, the present couplers Nos. 20, 21 and 25 are clearly excellent in every respect. The same procedures as in the above Example 3 were repeated except that the present couplers indicated in Table 6 were instead employed, thereby producing 6 silver halide photosensitive materials for color photography Samples Nos. 25 to 30 . The samples were exposed and treated in the same manner as in the above Example 3. The produced cyan color image was assessed for photographic characteristics. The results are summarized in Table 6. As is apparent from the above Table 6, the samples using the present couplers possess excellent sensitivity and color development. Also, the samples using the couplers of the present invention as a result of spectral measurement, have been found to show an absorption maximum in a long wave length range of the red region and sharpness in a short wave length range and thus produce a favourable dye image in color reproduction in the green region, as compared with the control couplers. The samples No. 19 to No. 24 as prepared in the above Example 5 were exposed, treated and tested for cyan dye maximum reflection density in the same manner as in the above Example 4. The results are summarized in Table 7. It can be seen from the Table 7 that the samples using the present couplers show less dis coloration of cyan dye when treated with exhausted bleach fixing solution. Samples were obtained in the same manner as in Example 1 except that the couplers shown in Table 8 were used, and their photographic properties were measured according to the same procedures as in Example 1. The results are shown in Table 8.