# L Aminodicarboxylic acid esters and an edible composition containing same as sweeteners.

## Abstract
Sweeteners of the Formula CHEM and food acceptable salts thereof, where the substituents have the meaning disclosed in the specification and an edible composition containing same.

## Claims
Claims 1. A compound represented by the formula EMI19.1 and food acceptable salts thereof, whereinA is hydrogen, alkyl containing 1 3 carbon atoms, hydroxyalkyl containing 1 3 carbon atoms or alkoxymethyl wherein the alkoxy contains 1 3 carbon atoms A is hydrogen or alkyl containing 1 3 carbon atoms alternatively A and A taken together with the carbon atom to which they are attached form cycloalkyl containing 3 4 carbon atoms Y is CHR2 n Rt or CHR3Rs R, is an alkyl substituted cycloalkyl, cycloalkenyl bicycloalkyl or bicycloalkenyl wherein at least one alkyl is in the ss position of the cycloalkyl, cycloalkenyl, bicycloalkyl or bicycloalkenyl ring, contains ing up to 7 ring carbon atoms and a total of 12 carbon atoms R2 is H or alkyl containing 1 4 carbon atoms R2 and R, are each cycloalkyl containing 3 4 ring carbon atoms n Oor1 and m Oor1. 2. The compound of Claim 1 repesented by the formula EMI20.1 and food acceptable salts thereof, whereinA and A are each hydrogen or alkyl containing 1 3 carbon atoms Y is CHR2 n R, or CHR3R4 R, is an alkyl substituted cycloalkyl, cycloalkenyl bicycloalkyl or bicycloalkenyl wherein at least one alkyl is in the ss position of the cycloalkyl, cycloalkenyl, bicycloalkyl or bicycloalkenyl ring, containing up to 7 ring carbon atoms and a total of 12 carbon atoms R2 is H or alkyl containing 1 4 carbon atoms R3 and R. are each cycloalkyl containing 3 4 ring carbon atoms n 0 or 1 and m O or 1. 3. The compound of Claim 1 represented by the formula EMI20.2 and food acceptable salts thereof, whereinA is hydroxyalkyl containing 1 3 carbon atoms A is hydrogen or alkyl containing 1 3 carbon atoms Y is CHR2 n Rz or CHR3Rt R, is an alkyl substituted cycloalkyl, cycloalkenyl, bicycloalkyl or bicycloalkenyl wherein at least one alkyl is in the ss position of the cycloalkyl, cycloalkenyl, bicycloalkyl or bicycloalkenyl ring, containing up to 7 ring carbon atoms and a total of 12 carbon atoms R2 is H or alkyl containing 1 4 carbon atoms R3 and R4 are each cycloalkyl containing 3 4 ring carbon atoms n O or 1 and m O or 1. 4. The compound of Claim 1 represented by the formula EMI21.1 and food acceptable salts thereof, whereinA is alkoxymethyl wherein the alkoxy contains 1 3 carbon atoms A is H or alkyl containing 1 3 carbon atoms Y is CHR2 n Rt or CHR3R4 R1 is an alkyl substituted cycloalkyl, cycloalkenyl bicycloalkyl or bicycloalkenyl wherein at least one alkyl is in the beta position of the cycloalkyl, cycloalkenyl, bicycloalkyl or bicycloalkenyl ring, containing up to 7 ring carbon atoms and a total of 12 carbon atoms R2 is H or alkyl containing 14 carbon atoms R3 and R4 are each cycloalkyl containing 3 4 ring carbon atoms n O or 1 and m O or 1. 5. The compound of Claim t represented by the formula EMI21.2 and food accetable salts thereof, whereinA and A taken together with carbon atom to which they are attached form a cycloalkyl containing 34 carbon atoms Y is CHR2 n Rs or CHR3R4 R, is an alkyl substituted cycloalkyl, cycloalkenyl bicycloalkyl or bicycloalkenyl wherein at least one alkyl is in the beta position of the cycloalkyl, cycloalkenyl, bicycloalkyl or bicycloalkenyl ring, containing up to 7 ring carbon atoms and a total of 12 carbon atoms R2 is H or alkyl containing 14 carbon atoms R3 and R4 are each cycloalkyl containing 34 ring carbon atoms n 0 or land m Oor1. 6. The compound of any of Claims 1 5 wherein n 0. 7. The compound of any of Claims 1 6 wherein R1 is mono , di , trior tetramethyl cycloalkyl or bicycloalkyl containing up to 10 carbon atoms. 8. The compound of any of Claims 1 6 wherein R, is an alkyl substituted cyclopentyl or cyclohexyl containing a total of up to 10 carbon atoms. 9. The compound of any of Claims 1 7 wherein R1 is a ss methyl substibJted cycloalkyl or bicycloalkyl. 10. The compound of any of Claims 1 7 wherein R, is a ss, , or, , ss dimethyl substituted cycloalkyl or bicycloalkyl. 11. The compound of any of Claims 1 7 wherein R1 is a ss, ss, B trimethyl substituted cycloalkyl or bicycloalkyl. 12. The compound of any of Claims 1 7 wherein R, is a ss ss ss , ss tetramethyl substituted cycloalkyl or bicycloalkyl. 13. The compound of Claims 1 12 wherein R3 and R, are cyclopropyl. 14. The compound of Claim 1 which isN L Aspartylalanine 2,2,5,5 tetramethylcyclopentyl ester N L Aspartylalanine 2,2,5 trimethylcyclopentyl ester N L Aspartylaianine 2,5 dimethylcyclopentyl ester N L Aspartylalanine dicyclopropylmethyl ester N L Aspartylalanine fenchyl ester N L Aspartylalanine 2 t butylcyclopentyl ester N L Aspartylalanine 1 t butyl 1 cyclopropylmethyl ester N.L.Aspartyialanine 1 isopropyl 1 cyclopropyimethyl ester N L Aspartyl 2 methylalanine 2,2,5 trimethyl cyclopentyl ester N L Aspartyl 2 methylalanine 2,5 dimethylcyclopentyl ester N L Aspartyl 2 methylalanine dicyclopropylmethyl ester N L Aspartyl 2 methylalanine fenchyl ester N L spartyl 2 methylalanine 2 t butylcyclopentyl ester N L Aspartyl 2 methylalanine 1 t butyl 1 cyciopropylmethyl ester N L Aspartyl 2 methylalanine 1 isopropyl 1 cyclopropylmethyl ester N L Aspartylserine 2,2,5,5 tetramethylcyclopentyl ester N L Aspartylserine 2,2,5 trimethylcyclopentyl ester N L Aspartylserine 2,5 dimethyicyclopentyl ester N L Aspartylserine dicyclopropylmethyl ester N Aspartylserine fenchyl ester N L Aspartylserine 2 t butylcyclopentyl ester N L Aspartylserine 1 t butyl 1 cyclopropylmethyl ester N L Aspartylserine 1 isopropyl 1 cyclopropylmethyl ester N L Aspartyl 0 methylserine 2,2,5,5 tetramethyl cyclopentyl ester N L Aspartyl 0 methylserine 2,2,5 trimethylcyclopentyl ester N .Aspartyl 0 methylserine 2,5 dimethylcyclopentyl ester N L Aspartyl 0 methylserine dicyclopropylmethyl ester N L Aspartyl 0 methylserine fenchyl ester N L Aspartyl 0 methylserine 2 t butylcyclopentyl ester N L Aspartyl 0 methylserine 1 t butyl 1 cyclopropylmethyl ester N L Aspartyl 0 methylserine 1 isopropyl 1 cyclopropylmethyl ester N L aspartyl 1 aminocyclopropan41 carboxylic acid 2,2,5,5 tetramethylcyclopentyl ester N L aspartyl 1 am inocyclopropane 1 carboxylic acid 2,2,5 trimethylcyclopentyl ester N L aspartyl 1 aminocyclopropane 1 carboxylic acid 2,5 dimethylcyclopentyl ester N L aspartyl 1 aminocyclopropane l carboxylic acid dicyclopropylmethyl ester N L aspartyl 1 aminocyclopropane 1 carboxylic acid fenchyl ester N L aspartyl 1 aminocyclopropane 1 carboxylic acid 2 t butylcyclopentyl ester N L aspartyl 1 aminocyclopropane 1 carboxylic acid 1 t butyl 1 cyclopropylmethyl ester N L aspartyl 1 aminocyclopropane 1 carboxylic acid 1 isopropyl 1 cyclopropylmethyl ester or N L aspartyl D alanine 1 methyi l cyclopentyl ester. 15. An edible composition comprising a sweetening effective amount of a compound of any of claims 114. CLAIMS FOR CONTRACTING STATE AT 1. A process for the preparation of a compound ofFormula I herein which comprises reacting a carboxylic acid or derivatives thereof of Formula II with an amine of Formula Ill under amide forming conditions and optionally removing the protecting groups when present and optionally forming phar maceutically acceptable salts of said compounds. 2. The process of Claim I wherein the compound formed has the formula EMI23.1 and food acceptable salts thereof, whereinA and A are each hydrogen or alkyl containing 1 3 carbon atoms Y is CHR2 n Ra or CHR,R RX is an alkyl substituted cycloalkyl, cycloalkenyl bicycloalkyl or bicycloalkenyl wherein at least one alkyl is in the position of the cycloalkyl, cycloalkenyl, bicycloalkyl or bicycloalkenyl ring, containing up to 7 ring carbon atoms and a total of 12 carbon atoms R2 is H or alkyl containing 1 4 carbon atoms R3 and R are each cycloalkyl containing 3 4 ring carbon atoms n Oor1 and m O or 1. 3. The process of Claim 1 wherein the compound formed has the formulaEMI23.2 and food acceptable salts thereof, whereinA is hydroxyalkyl containing 1 3 carbon atoms A is hydrogen or alkyl containing 1 3 carbon atoms Y is CHR2 n R, or CHR3R4 R, is an alkyl substituted cycloalkyl, cycloalkenyl, bicycloalkyl or bicycloalkenyl wherein at least one alkyl is in the 8 position of the cycloalkyl, cycloalkenyl, bicycloalkyl or bicycloalkenyl ring, containing up to 7 ring carbon atoms and a total of 12 carbon atoms R2 is H or alkyl containing 14 carbon atoms R3 and R, are each cycloalkyl containing 3 4 ring carbon atoms n O or 1 and m O or 1. 4. The process of Claim 1 wherein the compound formed has the formula EMI24.1 and food acceptable salts thereof, whereinA is alkoxymethyl wherein the alkoxy contains 1 3 carbon atoms A is H or alkyl containing 1 3 carbon atoms Y is CHR2 n R, or CHR3R4 R, is n alkyl.substituted cycloalkyl, cycloalkenyl bicycloalkyl or bicycloalkenyl wherein at least one alkyl is in the ss position of the cycloalkyl, cycloalkenyl, bicycloalkyl or bicycloalkenyl ring, containing up to 7 ring carbon atoms and a total of 12 carbon atoms R2 is H or alkyl containing 1 4 carbon atoms R3 and R. are each cycloalkyl containing 3 4 ring carbon atoms n O or 1 and m O or 1. 5. The process of Claim 1 wherein the compound formed has the formula EMI24.2 and food accetable salts thereof, whereinA and A taken together with carbon atom to which they are attached form a cycloalkyl containing 3 4 carbon atoms Y is CHR2 n RI or CHR3R4 R, is an alkyl substituted cycloalkyl, cycloalkenyl bicycloalkyl or bicycloalkenyl wherein at least one alkyl is in the ss position of the cycloalkyl, cycloalkenyl, bicycloalkyl or bicycloalkenyl ring, containing up to 7 ring carbon atoms and a total of 12 carbon atoms R2 is H or alkyl containing 1 4 carbon atoms R3 and RZ are each cycloalkyl containing 3 4 ring carbon atoms n O or 1 and m O or 1. 6. The process of any of Claims 1 5 wherein n 0. 7. The process of any of Claims 1 6 wherein R, is mono , di , tri or tetramethyl cycloalkyl or bicycloalkyl containing up to 10 carbon atoms. 8. The process of any of Claims 1 6 wherein R, is an alkyl substituted cyclopentyl or cyclohexyl con taining a total of up to 10 carbon atoms. 9. The process of any of Claims 1 7 wherein R, is a beta methyl substituted cycloalkyl or bicycloalkyl. 10. The process of any of Claims 1 7 wherein R, is a ss, ss or ss, beta dimethyl substituted cycloalkyl or bicycloalkyl. 11. The process of any of Claims 1 7 wherein R, is a ss, ss, 8 trimethyl substituted cycloalkyl or bicycloalkyl. 12. The process of any of Claims 1 7 wherein R, is a ss, ss, ss , ssr tetramethyl substituted cycloalkyl or bicycloalkyl. 13. The process of Claims 1 12 wherein R3 and R4 are cyclopropyl. 14. The process of Claim 1 wherein the compound formed is N L Aspartylalan ine 2,2,5,5 tetram etylcyciopentyi ester N L AsparEylalanine 2,2,5 trimethylcyclopentyl ester N L Aspartylalanine 2,5 dimethylcyclopentyl ester N L Aspartylalanine dicyclopropylmethyl ester N L Aspartylalanine fenchyl ester N L Aspartylalanine 2 t butylcyclopentyl ester N L Aspartylalanine 1 t butyl 1 cyclopropylmethylF ester N L Aspartylalanine 1 isopropyl 1 cyclopropylmethyl ester N L Aspartyl 2 methylalanine 2,2,5 trimethyl cyclopentyl ester N L Aspartyi 2 methylalanine 2,5 dimethyi cyclopentyl ester N L Aspartyl 2 methylalanine dicyclopropylmethyl ester N L AsparEyl 2 methylalanine fenchyl ester N L Aspartyl 2 methylalanine 2 t butylcyclopentyl ester N L Aspartyl 2 methylalanine 1 tbutyl 1 cyclopropylmethyl ester N L Aspartyl 2 methylalanine 1 isopropyS1 cyclopropylmethyi ester N L Aspartylserine 2,2,5,5 tetramethylcyclopentyl ester N L Aspartylserine 2,2,5 trimethylcyclopentyl ester N L Aspartylserine 2,5 dimethylcyclopentyl ester N L Aspartylserine dicyclopropylmethyl ester N L Aspartylserine fenchyl ester N L Aspartylserine 2 t butylcyclopentyl ester N Aspartylserine 1 t butyl 1 cyclopropylmethylf ester N Aspartylserinet1 isopropyl 1 cyclopropylmethyl ester N L Aspartyl 0 methylserine 2,2,5,5 tetramethylcyclopentyl ester N L Aspar1yl 0 methylserine 2,2,5 trimethyl cyclopentyl ester N L Aspartyl 0 methylserine 2,5 dimethylcyclopen tyl ester N L Aspartyl 0 methylserine dicyclopropylmethyl ester N L Aspartyl O methylserine fenchyl ester, N AsparEyl 0 methylserine 2 t butylcyclopentyl ester N L Aspartyl Gmethylserine 1 tutyI 1 cyclopropylmethyl ester N L Aspartyl 0 methylserine 1 isoprnpyl 1 cyclopropylmethyl ester N L aspartyl 1 aminocyclopropane 1 carboxylic acid 2,2,5,5 tetramethylcyclopentyl ester N L aspartyl 1 aminocyclopropane l carboxylic acid 2,2,5 trimethylcyclopentyl ester N L aspartyl l am inocyclopropane carboxylic acid 2,5 dimethylcyclopentyl ester N L aspartyl 1 aminocyclopropane 1 carboxylic acid dicyclopropylmethyl ester N L aspartyl 1 aminocyclopropane 1 carboxylic acid fenchyl ester N L aspartyl 1 aminocyclopropane l carboxylic acid 2 t butylcyclopentyl ester N L aspartyl 1 aminocyciopropane l carboxylic acid l t butyl l cyclopropylmethyi ester N L aspartyl I aminocyclopropane i carboxylic acid 1 isopropyl 1 cyclopropylmethyl ester or N L aspartyl D alanine 1 methyl 1 cyclopentyl ester. 15. Use of a compound produced in accordance with the process of any of Claims 1 14 in a sweetening effective amount for the preparation of an edible composition.

## Description
L AMINODICARBOXYLIC ACID ESTERS AND AN EDIBLE COMPOSITION CONTAINING SAME AS SWEETEN ERS This invention relates to a novel group of compounds and more particularly to a novel group of compounds particularly well suited as sweeteners in edible foodstuff. Sweetness is one of the primary taste cravings of both animals and humans. Thus, the utilization of sweetening agents in foods in order to satisfy this sensory desire is well established. Naturally occuring carbohydrate sweeteners such as sucrose, are still the most widely used sweetening agents. While thse naturally occurring carbohydrates, i.e., sugars, generally fulfill the requirements of sweet taste, the abundant usage thereof does not occur without deleterious consequence, e.g., high caloric intake and nutritional imbalance. In fact, oftentimes the level of these sweeteners required in foodstuffs is far greater than the level of the sweetener that is desired for economic, dietetic or other functional consideration. In an attempt to eliminate the disadvantages concomitant with natural sweeteners, considerable research and expense have been devoted to the production of artificial sweeteners, such as for example, saccharin, cyclamate, dihydrochalcone, aspartame, etc. While some of these artificial sweeteners satisfy the requirements of sweet taste without caloric input, and have met with considerable commercial success, they are not however, without their own inherent disadvantages. For example, many of these artificial sweeteners have the disadvantages of high cost, as well as delay in the perception of the sweet taste, persistent lingering of the sweet taste, and very objectionable bitter, metallic aftertaste when used in food products. Since it is believed that many disadvantages of artificial sweeteners, particularly aftertaste, is a function of the concentration of the sweetener, it has been previously suggested that these effects could be reduced or eliminated by combining artificial sweeteners such as saccharin, with other ingredients such as aspartame or natural sugars, such as sorbitol, dextrose, maltose, etc. These combined products, however, have not been entirely satisfactory either. Some U.S. Patents which disclose sweetener mixtures include for example, U.S. Patent No. 4,228,198 U.S. Patent No. 4,158,068 U.S.Patent No. 4,154,862 and U.S. Patent No.3,717,477. Accordingly, much work has continued in an attempt to develop and identify compounds that have a sweet taste and which will satisfy the need for better lower calorie sweeteners. Search continues for sweeteners that have intense sweetness, that is, deliver a sweet taste at low use levels and which will also produce enough sweetness at low levels to act as sole sweetener for most sweetener applications. Furthermore, the sweeteners sought must have good temporal and sensory qualities.Sweeteners with good temporal qualities produce a time intensity sweetness response similar to natural sweeteners without lingering. Sweeteners with good sensory qualities lack undesirable off tastes and aftertaste. Furthermore, these compounds must be economical and safe to use. In U.S. Patent No. 3,798,204. L aspartyWO t butySL serine methyl ester and L aspartyl O t amyl L serine methyl ester are described as sweet compounds having significant sweetness. In U.S. Patent No. 4,448,716 metal complex salts of dipeptide sweetners are disclosed. In the background of this patent a generic formula is described as an attempt to represent dipeptide sweeteners disclosed in five prior patents U.S.Patent No. 3,475,403 U.S. Patent No. 3,492,131 Republic of South Africa Patent No. 695,083 published Juiy 10, 1969 Republic of South AfricaPatent No. 695,910 published August 14, 1969 andGerman Patent No. 2,054,554. The general formula attempting to represent these patents is as follows EMI1.1 wherein R represents the lower alkyls, lower alkylaryls and cycloalkyls, n stands for integers 0 through 5, R, represents a phenyl group, b lower alkyls, c cycloalkyls, d R2. Where R2 is hydroxy, lower alkoxy, lower alkyl, halogen, e S O m lower alkyl where m is 0, 1 or 2 and provided n is 1 or 2, f R3. Where R3 represents an hydroxy or alkoxy and g single or double unsaturated cycloalkyls with up to eight carbons. These compounds also are not entirely satisfactory in producing a high quality sweetness or in producing a sweet response at lower levels of sweetener. Dipeptides of aspartyl cysteine and aspartylmethionine methyl esters are disclosed by Brussel,Peer and Van der Heijden in Chemical Senses andFlavour, 4, 141 152 1979 and in Z. Lebensm.Untersuch Forsch., 159, 337 343 1975 . The authors disclose the following dipeptides a L Asp L Cys Me OMe a L Asp L Cys Et OMe a L Asp L Cys Pr OMe a L Asp L Cys i Pr OMe a L Asp L Cys t But OMe a L Asp L Met OMe In U.S.Patent No. 4,399,163 to Brennan et al., sweeteners having the following formulas are disclosed EMI2.1 and physiologically acceptable cationic and acid addition salts thereof whereinRa is CH2OH or CH20CH3 R is a branched member selected from the group consisting of fenchyl, diisopropylcarbinyl, d methylt butylcarbinyl, d ethyl t butyl carbinyl, 2methylthio 2,4 dimethylpentan 3 yl, di t butyl carbinyl, EMI3.1 In a related patent, Patent No. 4,411,925, Brennan, et al. disclose compounds of the above general formula with R being defined hereinabove, except Ra is defined as methyl, ethyl, n propyl or isopropyl. U.S. Patent No. 4,375,430 to Sklavounos discloses dipeptide sweeteners which are aromatic sulfonic acid salts of L aspartyl D alaninoamides or L aspartyl D serinamides. European Patent Application No. 95772 to Tsau describe aspartyl dipeptide sweeteners of the formula EMI3.2 wherein R is alkyl of 1 to 6 carbons, and R2 is phenyl, phenylakylenyl or cyclohexylalkenyl, wherein the alkenyl group has 1 to 5 carbons.Closely related is Patent No. 4,439,460 to Tsau, et al. which describes dipeptide sweeteners of the formula EMI4.1 wherein n is an integer from 0 to 5, and R, is an alkyl, alkylaryl or alicyclic radical. Similar such compounds are described in many related patents, the major difference being the definition of R2. In U.S. Patent No. 3,978,034 to Sheehan, et al.,R2 is defined as cycloalkenyl or phenyl. U.S. PatentNo. 3,695,898 to Hill defines R2 as a mono or a diunsaturated alicyclic radical. Haas, et al. in PatentNo. 4,029,701 define R2 as phenyl, lower alkyl or substituted or unsubstituted cycloalkyl, cycloalkenyl or cycloalkdienyl, or S O m lower alkyl provided that n is 1 or 2 and m is 0 or 2. Closely related are U.S. Patent Nos. 4,448,716, 4,153,737, 4,031,258, 3,962,468, 3,714,139, 3,642,491, and 3,795,746. U.S. Patent No. 3,803,223 to Mazur, et al.describe dipeptide sweeteners and anti inflammatory agents having the formula EMI4.2 wherein R is hydrogen or a methyl radical and R is a radical selected from the group consisting of alkyl, orEMI4.3 wherein Alk is a lower alkylene radical, X is hydrogen or hydroxy, and Y is a radical selected from the group consisting of cyclohexyl, naphthyl, furyl, pyridyl, indolyl, phenyl and phenoxy. Goldkamp, et al. in U.S. Patent No. 4,011,260 describe sweeteners of the formula EMI4.4 wherein R is hydrogen or a lower alkyl radical, Alk is a lower alkylene radical and R is a carbocyclic radical. Closely related is U.S. Patent No.3,442,431. U.S. Patent No. 4,423,029 to Rizzi describes sweeteners of the formula EMI5.1 wherein R is CrCs straight, branched or cyclic alkyl, and wherein carbons a, b and c have the S configuration. European Patent Application 48,051 describes dipeptide sweeteners of the formula EMI5.2 wherein M represents hydrogen, ammonium, alkali or alkaline earth,R representsEMI5.3 Rl represents methyl, ethyl, propyl,R2 represents OH, or SOCH3, signifies an L optical configuration for this atom. German Patent Application No. 7259426 discloses L aspartyi 3 fenchylalanine methyl ester as a sweetening agent U.S. Patent No. 3,971,822 to Chibata, et al., disclose sweeteners having the formula EMI5.4 wherein R is hydrogen or hydroxy, R2 is alkyl of one to five carbon atoms, alkenyl of two to three carbon atoms, cycloalkyl of three to five carbon atoms or methyl cycloalkyl of four to six carbon atoms and Y is alkylene of one to four carbon atoms. U.S. Patent No. 3,907,366 to Fujino, et al. discloses L aspartyl aminomalonic acid alkyl fenchyl diester and its physiologically acceptable salts as useful sweeteners. Patent No. 3,959,245 disclose the 2 methyl cyclohexyl analog of the abovementioned patent. U.S. Patent No. 3,920,626 discloses N tr Laspartyl derivatives of lower alkyl esters of O lower alkanoyl L serine, ss alanine, e aminobutyric acid and D ss aminobutyric acid as sweeteners. Miyoshi, et al. in Bulletin of Chemical Societv of Japan, 51, p. 1433 1440 1978 disclose compounds of the following formula as sweeteners 3 EMI6.1 wherein R is H, CH, COaCH,, or benzyl and R2 is lower alkyl or unsubstituted or substituted cycloalkyl. European Patent Application 128,654 describes gem diaminoalkane sweeteners of the formula EMI6.2 wherein m is 0 or 1, R is lower alkyl substituted or unsubstituted , R is H or lower alkyl, and R is a branched alkyl, alkylcycloalkyl, cycloalkyl, polycycloalkyl, phenyl, or alkyl substituted phenyl, and physically acceptable salts thereof. U.S. Patent No. 3,801,563 to Nakajima, et al.disclose sweeteners of the formula EMI6.3 wherein R is a branched or cyclic alkyl group of 3 to 8 carbon atoms, R2 is a lower alkyl group of 1 to 2 carbon atoms and n is a integer of 0 or 1. European Patent Application 34,876 describes am ides of L aspartyl D amino acid dipeptides of the formula EMI6.4 wherein Ra is methyl, ethyl, n propyl or isopropyl and R is a branched aliphatic, alicyclic or heterocyclic member which is branched at the alpha carbon atom and also branched again at one or both of the beta carbon atoms. These compounds are indicated to be of significant sweetness. In the Journal of Medicinal Chemistry, 1984,Vol. 27, No. 12, pp. 1663 8, are described various sweetener dipeptide esters, including L aspartylt aminocycloalkane methyl esters. The various dipeptide esters of the prior art have been characterized as lacking significant stability at low pH values and or thermal stability.These characterstics have limited the scope of use of these sweeteners in food products which are of low pH values or are prepared or served at elevated temperatures. Accordingly, it is desired to find compounds that provide quality sweetness when added to foodstuffs or pharmaceuticals at low levels and thus eliminate or greatly diminish the aforesaid disadvantages associated with prior art sweeteners.SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION The present new compounds are esters of certain ctaminodicarboxylic acids and aaminoesters which are low calorie sweeteners that possess a high order of sweetness with pleasing taste and higher stability at acid pH and elevated tempera tures compared to known dipeptide sweeteners. This invention provides new sweetening compounds represented by the formula EMI7.1 and food acceptable salts thereof, whereinA is hydrogen, alkyl containing 1 3 carbon atoms.hydroxyalkyl coritaining 1 3 carbon atoms or alkoxymethyl wherein the alkoxy contains 1 3 carbon atoms A is hydrogen or alkyl containing 1 3 carbon atoms alternativelyA and A taken together with the carbon atom to which they are attached form cycloalkyl containing 3 4 carbon atoms Y is CHR2 n Ro or CHR,R R, is an alkyl substituted cycloalkyl, cycloalkenyl bicycloalkyl or bicycloalkenyl wherein at least one alkyl is in the P position of the cycloalkyl, cycloalkenyl, bicycloalkyl or bicycloalkenyl ring, containing up to 7 ring carbon atoms and a total of 12 carbon atoms R2 is H or alkyl containing 14 carbon atoms Rs and Rs are each cycloalkyl containing 3 4 ring carbon atoms n 0or 1 and m O or 1. DESCRIPTION OF THE PREFERRED EMBODI MENTS In accordance with the present invention, the preferred compounds are those in which R, is an alkyl substituted cycloalkyl or bicycloalkyl contain ing 5 7 ring carbon atoms and up to a total of 10 carbon atoms. Especially preferred are cycloalkyl substituted with at least one methyl group on the ss and or ss carbon atoms of the cycloalkyl ring. Particularly preferred cycloalkyls include cyclopropyl. cyclopentyl, and cyclohexyl and the preferred bicycloalkyl is fenchyl. Also preferred are those compounds in which n 0. In those compounds in which n 1, R1 is preferably a cyclopropyl group and B2 is preferably tertiary butyl, isopropyl or cyclopropyl. The groups representative of Y in the present new compounds include such groups as alkyl sub stituted cycloalkyls, e.g., 1,2 dimethylcyclohexyl, 1,2 dimemylcyclopentyl, 1,2 dimethylcycloheptyl, 2,3 dimetyicyclopentyl, 2,3 dimeFylcyclohexyl, 2,3 dimethylcycloheptyl, 2,4 dimetylcyclopentyl, 2A dimethylcyclohexyl, 2,4 limethylcycloheptyl, 2,5 dimethylcyclopentyl, 2,5 dimethylcyclohexyl, 2,5 dimethylcycloheptyl, 2,6 dimethylcyclohexyl, 2,6 dimemylcycloheptyl, 2,7 dimethylcycloheptyl, 3,5 dimethylcyclopentyl, 4,5 dimethylcyclopentyi, 4,5 dimethylcycloheptyl, 3,6 dimethylcyciohexyl, 3,7 dimetylcycloheptyl, 4,6 dimethylcyclohexyl, 4,7 dimethylcycloheptyl , 5,6 dimethylcyclohexyl, 5,6 dimethylcyclohexyl, 5,7 dimethylcycloheptyl, 6,7 dimethylcycloheptyl, 2,2 dimethylcyclopentyl, 2,2 dimethylcyclohexyl, 2,2 dimethylcycloheptyl, 2,2,3 trimetkylcyclopentyl, 2,2,3 trimethylcyclohexyl, 2,2,3 trimethylcycloheptyl, 2,2,4trimethylcyclopentyl, 2,2,4 trimethylcyclohexyl, 2,2,4 trimethylcycloheptyl, 2,2,5 trimethylcyclopentyl, 2,2,5 trimethylcyclohexyl, 2,2,5 trimethylcycloheptyl, 2,3,3 trimethylcyclopentyl, 2,3,3trimethylcyclohexyl, 2,3,3 trimethylcycloheptyl, 2,4,4 trimethylcyclopentyl, 2,4,4 trimethylcyclohexyl, 2,4,4 trimethylcycloheptyl, 1 ,2,3 trimethylcyclopentyl, 1,2,3 trimethylcyclohexyl, 1,2,3 trimethylcycloheptyl, 1,2,4 trimethylcyclopentyl, 1 ,2,4 trimethylcyclohexyl, 1 ,2,4 trimethylcycloheptyl, 1 ,Z,5 trimethylcyclopentyl, 1 2,5 trimethyl cyclohexyl, 1 ,2,5 trimethylcycloheptyl, 1,2,6 trimethylcyclohexyl, 1,2,6 trimethylcycloheptyl, 1 ,2,7 trimethylcycloheptyl, 2,3,4 trimethylcyclopentyl, 2,3,4 trimethylcyclohexyl, 2,3,4 trimethylcycloheptyl, 2,3,5 trimethylcyclopen tyi, 2,3,5 trimethylcyclohexyl, 2,3,5 trimethylcycloheptyl, 2,3,6 trimethylcyclohexyl, 2,3,6 trimethylcycloheptyl, 2,3,7 trimethylcycloheptyl, 2,2,5,5 tetramethylcyclopentyl, 2,2,5,5 tetramethylcyclohexyl, 2,2,5,5tetramethylcycloheptyl, 2,2,6,6 tetramethyl cyclohexyl, 2,2,6,6 tetramethylcycioheptyl, 2,2,7,7 tetramethylcycloheptyl, 2,2,4,4 tetramethylcyclopentyl, 2,2,4,4 tetramethylcyclohexyl, 2,2,4,4tetramethylcycloheptyl, 2,2,3,3 tetramethylcyclopentyl, 2,2,3,3 tetramethylcyclohexyl, 2,2,3,3tetramethylcycloheptyl, 1,2,3,4 tetramethylcyclopentyl, 1 ,2,3,4 tetramethylcyclohexyl, 1,2,3,4 tetramethylcycloheptyl, 1,2,3,5 tetramethylcyclopentyl, 1 ,2,3,5 tetramethylcyclohexyl, 1 ,2,3,5 tetramethylcycloheptyl, 1,2,3,6 tetramethyl cyclohexyl, 1,2,3,6 tetramethylcycloheptyl, 2,3,4,5 tetramethylcyclopentyl, 2,3,4,5 tetramethylcyclohexyl, 2,3 ,4,5 tetramethylcycloheptyl, 2,3,4,6 tetramethylcycloheptyl, 2,3,4,6 tetramethylcyclohexyl, 2,3,4,7 tetramethylcycloheptyl, 2,2,3,4 tetramethylcyclopentyl, 2,2,3 ,4 tetramethyl cyclohexyl, 2,2,3,4 tetramethylcycloheptyl, 2,2,3,5tetramethylcyclopentyl, 2,2,3,5 tetramethylcyclohexyl, 2,2,3,5 tetramethylcycloheptyl, 2,2,3,6tetramethylcyclohexyl, 2,2,3,6 tetramethylcyclohep tyi, 2,2,3,7 tetramethylcycloheptyl, 2,3,3,4 tetramethylcyclohexyl, 2,3,3,4 tetramethylcyclopentyl, 2,3,3,4 tetramethylcycloheptyl, 2,3,3,5 tetramethylcyclopentyl, 2,2,3,5 tetramethylcyclohexyl, 2,3,3,5 tetramethylcycloheptyl, 2,3,3,6 tetramethylcyclohexyl, 2,3,3,6 tetramethylcycloheptyl, 2,3.3,7 tetramethyicycloheptyl, 2,2,3,4tetramethylcyclopentyl, 2,2,3,4 tetramethyicyclohexyl, 2,3i3,4 tetramethylcycloheptyl, 2,2,3,5tetramethylcyclopentyl, 2,2,3,5 tetramethylcyclohexyl, 2,2,3,6 tetramethylcyclohexyl, 2,2,3,6 tetramethylcycloheptyl, 2,2,3,7 tetramethylcycloheptyl, 2,2,4,5 tetramethylcyciopentyl, 2,2,4,5tetramethylcyclohexyl, 2,2,4,5 tetramethylcycloheptyl, 2,2,4,6 tetramethylcyclohexyl, 2,2,4,6tetramethylcycloheptyl, 2,2,4,7 tetramethylcycloheptyl, dicyclopropylmethyl, t butylcyclopropylmethyl, dicyclobutylmethyl, t butylcyclobutylmethyl, etc. 8 alkyl substituted cycloalkenes, e.g., 2 methyl 3 cyclohexenyl, 2 methyl 3cyclopentenyl, 2 methyl 3 cycloheptenyl ,2 methyl 4 cycloheptenyl, 5 methyl 3 cyciopentenyl, 2 methyl 2 cyclopentenyl, 2 methyl 2 cyclohexenyl, 2 methyl 2 cycloheptenyl, 2 methyl 2 cyclopentenyl, 6 methyl 2 cyclohexenyl, 7 methyl 2cycloheptenyl, 2,3 dimethyl 2 cyclopentenyl, 2,3dimethyl 2 cyclohexenyl, 2,4 dimethyl 2 cyclopentenyl, 2,4 dimethyl 2 cyclohexenyl, 2,5 dimethyl 2cyclohexenyl, 2,5 dimethyl 2 cycloheptenyl, 2,6dimethyl 2 cyciohexenyl, 2,6 dimethyl 3 cyclohexenyl, 2,5 dimethyl 3 cyclohexenyl, 2,5 dimethyl 2cyclopentenyl, 2,4 dimethyl 3 cyclopentenyl, 2,4dimethyl 3 cyclohexenyi, 4,5 dimethylcyclo 3 pentenyl, 5,5 dimethyl 3 cyclopentenyl, 6,6 dimethyl 3cyclohexenyl, 1,2 dimethyl 3 cyclopentenyl, 1,2dimethyl 3 cyclohexenyi, 1,5 dimethyl 3 cyclopentenyl, 2,2,6 trimethyl 3 cyclohexenyl, 2,2,5 trimethyl 3 cyclohexenyl, 2,5,5 trimethyl 3cyclohexenyl, 2,7,7 trimethyl 3 cycloheptenyl, 2,7,74rimethyl 4cycloheptenyl, 2,2,7 trimethyl 3cycloheptenyl, 2,2,7 trimetf7yl 4 cycroheptenyi, 2,3 ,6 trimethyl 3 cyclohexenyl 2,3,7 trimethyl 3 cycloheptenyl, 2,3,5 trimethyl 3cyclopentenyl, 2,2,6,6 tetramethyl 3cyciohexenyl, 2,2,5,5tetramethyl 3 cyclopentenyl, 2,2,7,7 tetramethyl 3cycloheptenyl, 2,3 ,5,5 tetrameti7yl 3 cyclopenten yl, 2,3,6,6 tetramethyl 3 cyclohexenyl, 2,3,7,7tetramethyl 3 cycloheptenyl, 2,3,6,6 tetramethyl 3 cycloheptenyl, 2,3,5,5 tetramethyl 3 cyclohexenyi, 2,3,4,5 tetramethyl 3cyclopentenyl, 2,3,4,5tetramethyl 3 cyclohexenyl, etc. bicyclic compounds, such as norbomyl, norcaranyl, norpinanyl, bicyclo 2.2.2 octyl, etc. alkyl substituted bicyclic compounds, e.g., 6,6 dimethyl bicyclo 3.1.1 hep tyl, 6,7,7 trimethylnorbomyl bonny or camphanyl , pinanyl, thujanyl, caranyl, fenchyl, 2 norbomylmethyl, etc. unsubstituted and alkyl substituted bicycloalkenes such as norbomenyl, norpinenyl, norcarenyl, 2 4 norbomenyl methyl, pinenyl, carenyl, fenchenyl, etc. and tricyclo compounds such as adamantyl and alkyl substituted adamantyl, etc The preferred R, is cycloalkyl or bicycloalkyl or alkyl substituted cycloalkyl or bicycloalkyl, especially where the alkyl group is in the ss or sst positions.Further, preference exists for compounds in which R, is a cycloalkyl with two, three or four alkyl groups in the ss ss positions such as ss. ss, ss , ss tetraalkyl substituted cyclopentyl, cyclobutyl, cyclohexyl, and cycloheptyl, as well as ss, ss, ss trialkyl substituted cyclobutyl, cyclopropyl, cyclohexyl, cyclopentyl, and cycloheptyl, and fenchyl. Also preferred are ss alkylcycloalkyis in which the alkyl group is isopropyl or tertiary butyl. These novel compounds are effective sweetness agents when used alone or in combination with other sweeteners in an ingesta, e.g., foodstuffs or pharmaceuticals. For example, other natural and or artificial sweeteners which may be used with the novel compounds of the present invention include sucrose, fructose, com syrup solids, dextrose, xylitol, sorbitol, mannitol, acetosulfam, thaumatin, invert sugar, saccharin, thiophene saccharin, meta aminobenzoic acid, meta hydroxybenzoic acid, cyclamate, chlorosucrose, dihydrochalcone, hydrogenated glucose syrups, aspartame Laspartyl L phenylalanine methyl ester and other dipeptides, glycyrrhizin and stevioside and the like.These sweeteners when employed with the sweetness agents of the present invention, it is believed, could produce synergistic sweetness responses. Furthermore, when the sweetness agents of the present invention are added to ingesta, the sweetness agents may be added alone or with nontoxic carriers such as the abovementioned sweeteners or other food ingredients such as acidulants and natural and artificial gums. Typical foodstuffs, and phar maceutical preparations, in which the sweetness agents of the present invention may be used are, for example, beverages including soft drinks, carbonated beverages, ready to mix beverages and the like, infused foods e.g. vegetables or fruits , sauces, condiments, salad dressings, juices, syrups, desserts, including puddings, gelatin and frozen desserts, like ice creams, sherbets, icings and flavored frozen desserts on sticks, confections, toothpaste, emouthwash, chewing gum, cereals, baked goods, intermediate moisture foods e.g. dog food and the like In order to achieve the effects of the present invention, the compounds described herein are generally added to the food product at a level which is effective to perceive sweetness in the food stuff and suitably is in an amount in the range of from about 0.0005 to 2 by weight based on the consumed product Greater amounts are operable but not practical. Preferred amounts are in the range of from about 0.001 to about 1 of the foodstuff.Generally, the sweetening effect provided by the present compounds are experienced over a wide pH range, e.g. 2 to 10 preferably 3 to 7 and in buffered and unbuffered formulations. H is desired that when the sweetness agents of this invention are employed alone or in combination with another sweetner, the sweetener or combination of sweeteners provide a sucrose equivalent in the range of from about 2 weight percent to about 40 weight percent and more preferably from about 3 weight percent to about 15 weight percent in the foodstuff or pharmaceutical. A taste procedure for determination of sweetness merely involves the determination of sucrose equivalency. Sucrose equivalence for sweeteners are readily determined. The amount of a sweetener that is equivalent to a given weight percent sucrose can be determined by having a panel of tasters taste solutions of a sweetener at known concentra tions and match its sweetness to standard solutions of sucrose. In order to prepare compounds of the present invention, several reaction schemes may be employed. In one reaction scheme, compounds of general formula II protected aaminodicarboxylic acid and Ill aminoester compound are con densed to form compounds of general formula IV.Subsequent removal of protecting groups B and Z from compounds of general formula IV give the desired compounds of general formula I EMI10.1 In these, group Z is an amino protecting group, B is a carboxyl protecting group, and A, A , Y, and n have the same meaning as previously described. A variety of protecting groups known in the art may be employed. Examples of many of these possibie groups may be found in Protective Groups inOrganic Synthesis by T.W. Green, John Wiiey and Sons, 1981. Among the preferred groups that may be employed are benzyloxycarbonyl fcr A and benzyl for B. Coupling of compounds with general formula Ill to compounds having general formula IV employs established techniques in peptide chemistry. One such technique uses dicyclohexylcarbodiimide DCC as the coupling agent. The DCC method may be employed with or without additives such as 4 dimethylaminopyridine or copper II . The DCC coupling reaction generally proceeds at room temperature, however, it may be carried out from about 20 to 50 C. in a variety of solvents inert to the reactants. Thus suitable solvents include, but are not limited to, N,N dimethyl formamide, methylene chloride, toluene and the like. Preferably the reaction is carried out under an inert atmosphere such as argon or nitrogen. Coupling usually is complete within 2 hours but may take as long as 24 hours depending on reactants. Various other methods can be employed to prepare the desired compounds. The following illustrates such methods using aspartic acid as the amino dicarboxylic acid. For example, U.S. Patents 3,786,039 3,833,553 3,879,372 and 3,933,781 disclose the reaction of N protected aspartic anhydrides with amino acids and amino acid derivatiyes to yield the desired products. These N protected aspartic anhydrides can be reacted with compounds of formulaIII by methods disclosed in the above patents. As described in U.S. Patent 3,786,039 compounds of formula Ill can be reacted directly in inert organic solvents with L aspartic anhydride having its amino group protected by a formyl, carbobenzloxy, or pmethoxycarbobenzloxy group which is subsequently removed after coupling to give compounds of general formula I.The N acyl L aspartic anhydrides are prepared by reacting the corresponding acids with acetic anhydride in amounts of 1.0 1.2 moles per mole of the N acyl L aspartic acid at 0 c to 60 C in an inert solvent. The N acyl L aspartic an hydrides are reacted with preferably 1 to 2 moles of compounds of formula Ill in an organic solvent capable of dissolving both and inert to the same. Suitable solvents are, but not limited to, ethyl acetate, methyl propionate, tetrahydrofuran, dioxane, ethyl ether, N,N dimethylformamide and benzene.The reaction proceeds smoothly at 0 to 30 C. The N acyl group is removed after coupling by catalytic hydrogenation with palladium on carbon or with HBr or HCI in a conventional manner.U.S. Patent No. 3,879,372 discloses that this coupling method can also be performed in an aqueous solvent at a temperature of 10 to 50 C and at a pH of 4 12. Another method for the synthesis of the dg sired compounds is the reaction of compounds of formula lil with suitable aspartic acid derivatives in which protecting groups have been attached to the amino and betacarboxy groups and the alpha carboxy group has been converted to a reactive ester funcfion. As disclosed in U.S. Patent 3,475,403 these coupled products may be deprotected as described to yield the desired compounds of formula I. An alternative scheme to the desired coupled compounds involves reaction of compounds of formula Ill with L aspartic acid N thiocarboxyanhydride by the method of Vinick and Jung, Tet. Lett., 23, 1315 18 1982 . An addifional coupling method is described by T. Miyazawa, Tet. Lett., 25, 771 1984 . Compounds of general formula Ill are synthesized using art recognized techniques. For example, compounds of formula Ill can be synthesized by standard esterification methods known in the art by reacting the free acid or acid functional equivalents, such as esters or anhydrides, with the corresponding alcohols under ester forming conditions, as for example in the presence of mineral acids, such as hydrochloric or sulfuric acids or organic acids, such as p toluene sulfonic acids. Reaction temperatures are in the range of 78 to reflux. The reaction is carried out in a solvent that will dissolve both reactants and is inert to both as well. Solvents include, but are not limited to methylene chloride, diethyl ether, tetrahydrofuran, dimethylsulfoxide, N,N dimethylfonmamide, and the like. With regard to the removal of protecting groups from compounds of formula IV and N protected precursors of formula Ill, a number of deprotecting techniques are known in the art and can be utilized to advantage depending on the nature of the protecting groups. Among such techniques is catalytic hydrogenation utilizing palladium on carbon or transfer hydrogenation with 1,4 cyclohex adiene. Generally the reaction is carried at room temperature but may be conducted from 5 to 65 C. Usually the reaction is carried out in the presence of a suitable solvent which may include, but are not limited to water, methanol, ethanol, dioxane, tetrahydrofuran, acetic acid, t butyl alcohol, isopropanol or mixtures thereof.The reaction is usually nun at a positive hydrogen pressure of 50 psi but can be conducted over the range of 20 to 250 psi. Reactions are generally quantitative taking 1 to 24 hours for completion. In any of the previous synthetic methods the desired products are preferably recovered from reaction mixtures by crystallization. Altematively, normal or reverse phase chromatography may be utiiized as well as liquid iiquid extraction or other means. The desired compounds of formula I are usually obtained in the free acid form they may also be recovered as their physiologically acceptable salts, i.e., the corresponding amino salts such as hydrochloride, sulfate, hydrosulfate, nitrate, hydrobromide, hydroiodide, phosphate or hydrophosphate or the alkali metal salts such as the sodium, potassium, lithium, or the alkaline earth metal salts such as calcium or magnesium as well as aluminum, zinc and like salts. Conversion of the free peptide derivatives of formula I into their physiologically acceptable salts is carried out by conventional means, as for example, bringing the compounds of formula I into contact with a mineral acid, an alkali metal hydroxide, an alkali metal oxide or carbonate or an alkaline earth metal hydroxide, oxide, carbonate or other complexed form. These physiologically acceptable salts can also be utilized as sweetness agents usually having increased solubility and stability over their free forms. It is known to those skilled in the art that the compounds of the present invention having asymmetric carbon atoms may exist in racemic or optically active forms. All of these forms are contemplated within the scope of the invention. The compounds of the present invention have one asymmetric site, which is designated by an asterik in the formula below, and one pseudoasymmetric sites which is designated by a double asterik Whenever A is identical to A , the compounds of the present invention have only one asymmetric site, designated by the asterik, in the dicarboxylic acid moiety. Although both the D and L forms are possible the preferred compounds are those in which the dicarboxylic acid group is in the Lconfiguration. Whenever the groups A and A are different, the carbon atom designated by the double asteriks becomes an asymmetric center and the compounds of the present invention will contain at least two asymmetric centers.Regardless, the configuration around each of the asymmetric sites, whenever present, may exist in either the D or L forms, and all possible stereoisomers are contemplated to be within the scope of the present invention. Since the dicarboxylic acid group is in the Lconfiguration, whenever an asymmetric center is present at the other carbon site, the compounds of the present invention are diastereomers, which can be separated, if desired, by art recognized techniques, as, for example, chromatography. However, mixtures of at least any two stereoisomers exhibit sweetness properties and are useful as sweeteners. The following examples further illustrate the invention.EXAMPLE 1 L Aspartyl D alanine 2,2,5,5.tetramethyl 1 cyclopentyi ester To a magnetically stirred solution of 10 g 0.071 mol 2,2,5,5 tetramethylcyclopentanone in 75 ml of dry tetrahydrofuran at 0 C under argon is added 2.69 g 0.071 mol of lithium aluminum hydride. When the reduction was complete, ethyl acetate was introduced dropwise to destroy unreacted lithium aluminum hydride. 25 mis of water is then added, followed by 300 mls of diethyl ether.The organic phase is washed with 100 mls of water, and dried over MgSO4. Filtration followed by evaporation afforded 8.23 g of 2,2,5,5 tetramethyl cyclopentanol. To a stirred solution of 9.59 9 0.043 mol NCbz alanine in 50 ml dry CH2Cl2 containing 8.96 g 1 eq. dicyclohexylcarbodiimide and 0.4 g dimethylaminopyridine DMAP , all at 0 C, is added, via an addition funnel, 6.0 g .043 mol of 2,2,5,5 tetramethylcyclopentanol dissolved in 50 mlCH2CI2. After stirring for 48 hours, the mixture is filtered, and the filtrate is washed with 5 HCI 1x50ml , saturated NaHCO3 1x50 ml , and water ixSOml . The organic layer is separated, dried over MgSO4 and evaporated to yield 10.11 g of 2,2,5,5 tetramethy cyclopentyl N Cbz D alanine ester. 10 g of 2,2,5,5 Tetramethylcyclopentyl N CbzD alanine ester is dissolved in 100 ml CHOH and hydrogenated over 5 Pd C in a Paar hydrogenation apparatus. When the reaction is complete the mixture is filtered through Celite and concentrated to yield 2,2,5,5 tetramethylcyclopentyl alanine ester. To a magnetically stirred solution of 2.14 g 0.0099 mol 2,2,5,5 tetramethylcyclopentyl alanine ester in 99 ml of dry dimethylformamide at 0 C under argon atmosphere is added 3.53 g N Cbz Laspartic acid beta benzyl ester followed by 1.33 g copper II chloride, and 2.06 g dicyclohexylcarbodiimide. This is stirred for 18 hours, after which the reaction mixture is poured into 200 ml 0.1 NHCI and extracted with 300 ml ethyl acetate. The organic phase is washed with saturated NaHCO3 and then water, and dried over MgSO4. Evaporated of the solvent yields 2.47 9 N N Cbz L aspartyl beta benzyl ester D alanine 2,2,5,5 tetramethyl 1 cyclopentyl ester. 2.0 9 N N Cbz L aspartyl beta benzyl ester D alanine 2,2,5,5 tetramethyi 1 cyclopentyl ester is dissolved in 50 ml CHOH and hydrogenated over 5 Pd C in a Parr apparatus. Upon completion of the reaction the mixture is filtered and concentrated to yield L aspartyl D alanine 2,2,5,5 tetramethyl 1 cyclopentyl ester. alD25 racemized 7.7 aID25 pure 21.9 . Sweetness determination with this compound gave the following results EMI12.1 SUCROSECONCENTRATION EOU IVEENCE C.005 2.5 0.001 3.7 0.025 7.7 Os 8.0 Similarly, by utilizing the appropriate alcohol, the following additional compounds are prepared N L Aspartylalanine 2,2,5, trimethylcyclopentylF ester. N L Aspartylalanine 2,5 dimethylcyclopentyl ester. N L Aspartylalanine dicyclopropylmethyl ester.N L Aspartylalanine fenchyl ester.N L Aspartylalanine 2 t butylcyclopentyl ester.N L Aspartylalanine 1 t butyl 1 cyclopropylmethylF ester.N L Aspartylalanine 1 isopropyl 1 cyclopropylmethyl ester.EXAMPLE 2 N L AspartylF2 methylalanine 2,2,5,5 tetramemyl t cyclopentyl ester To a stirred solution of 2 g .008 mol of NCbz 2 aminoisobutyric acid in dry CH2CI2 containing 1.9 9 dicyclohexyicarbodiimide and 0.1 9 dimethylaminopyridine DMAP , all at OOG, is added, via an addition funnel, 1.3 9 of 2,2,5,5tetramethylcyclopentanol dissolved in CH2Cl2. After stirring for 48 hours, the mixture is filtered, and the filtrate is washed with 5 HCI 1 x50ml , saturatedNaHCO30. 1x50ml , and water 1x50ml . The organic layer is separated, dried over MgSOs and evaporated to yield N Cbz 2 aminoisobutyric acid 2,2,5,5 tetramethylcyclopentyl ester. N Cbz 2 aminoisobutyric acid 2,2,5,5 tetramethylcyclopentyl ester is dissolved in CHOH and hydrogenated over 5 Pd C in a Paar hydrogenation apparatus. When the reaction is complete the mixture is filtered through Celite and concentrated to yield 2 aminoisobutyric acid 2,2,5,5 tetramethylcyclopentyl ester 600 mg . To a magnetically stirred solution of 0.6 g 2aminoisobutyric acid 2,2,5,5 tetramethylcyclopentyl ester in 20 ml of dry dimethylformamide at 0OC under argon atomosphere was added 1.02 9 NCbz L aspartic acid beta benzyl ester followed by 0.38 g of copper II chloride and 0.58 g dicyclohexylcarbodiimide. This is stirred for 18 hours, after which the reaction mixture is poured into 0.1 N HGI and extracted with ethyl acetate.The organic phase is washed with saturated NaHCO3 and then water, and dried over MgSOv Evaporation of the solvent yields N N Cbz L As partyl beta benzyl ester 2 aminoisobutryic acid 2,2,5,5 tetra methyl 1 yclopentyl esten N N Cbz L Aspartyl beta benzyl ester aminoisobutyric acid 2,2,5,5 tetra methyl 1 cyclopentyl ester is dissolved in CKOH and hydrogenated over 5 Pd C in a Parr apparatus. Upon completion of the reaction the mixture is filtered and concentrated to yield crude NdL Aspar tyl2 methylalanine 22,5,Stetramethyl I cyclopentyl ester. Purification of the final product was done by reverse phase chromatography on aWhatman Magnum 20 ODS 3 Cl8 column solvent system 40 methanol in H20. NMR CDClJDMSO s 0.90 s, 6H , 1.00 s, 6H , 125 1.5 m, 4H , 1.50 s, 6H , 2.50 2.70 q. of d., 2H , 3.50, 3.85 br.s, 1H , 4.85 br.s . Sweetness determination with this compound gave the following results SUCROSECONCENTRATION EQUIVALENCE 0.005 2.00 0.010 3.25 0.025 5.75 Similarly, by utilizing the appropriate alcohol. the following additionai compounds are prepared N L Aspartyl 2 methylalanine 2,2,5, trimethyl rcyciopentyl ester. N L Aspartyl 2 methylalanine 2,5 dimethylcyclopen tyl ester. N L Aspartyl 2 methylalanine dicyclopropylmethyi ester. N L Aspartyl 2 methylalanine fenchyl ester. N L Aspartyt 2 methylalanine 2 t butylcyclopentyl ester. N L Aspartyl 2 methylalanine 1 t butyl 1 cyclopropylmethyl ester. N L Aspartyl 2 methylalanine i isopropyl 1 cyclopropylmethyl ester. EXAMPLE 3 N L Aspartyl 1 amino1 cyclopropanecarboxylic acid 2,2,5,5 tetramethyl 1 cyclopentyl ester To a stirred solution of N Cbz 1 aminocyclopropane carboxylic acid in dry CH2Cl2 containing dicyclohexylcarbodiimide and dimethylaminopyridine DMAP , all at OOC, is ad ded, via an addition funnel, 2,2,5,5 tetramethyl cyclopentanol dissolved in CH2Cl2. After stirring for 48 hours, the mixture is filtered, and the filtrate is washed with 5 HCI 1x50ml , saturated NaHCO3 1x50 ml , and water 1x50ml . The organic layer is separated, dried over MgSO4 and evaporated to yield N Cbz 1 aminocyclopropanecarboxylic acid 2,2,5,5 tetramethylcyclopentyl ester. N Cbz 1 aminocyclopropanecarboxylic acid 2,2,5,5 tetramethylcyclopentyl ester is dissolved in absolute alcohol at 0 C in an ultrasound bath. Palladium on carbon 10 is added. The hy drogen source, 1 ,4 cyclohexadiene, is added, and ultrasound is commenced for eight minutes. The slurry is then filtered through a bed of Celite with ethyl alcohol. The solvent is removed by rotary evaporation to yield 1 aminocyclopropylcarboxylic acid 2,2,5,5 tetramethylcyclopentyl ester. To a magnetically stirred solution of 1aminocyclopropane carboxylic acid 2,2,5,5tetramethylcyclopentyl ester in dry dimethylformamide at 0 C under argon atmosphere is addedN Cbz L aspartic acid beta benzyl ester followed by copper II chloride and dicyclohexylcarbodiimide. This is stirred for 18 hours, after which the reaction mixture is poured into 0.1 N HCI and extracted with ethyl acetate. The organic phase is washed with saturated NaHCOI and then water, and dried over MgSO . Evaporation of the solvent yieldsN N Cbz L Aspartyl beta benzyl ester 1 amino 1 cyclopropanecarboxylic acid 2,2,5,5 tetramethyl 1cyclopentyl ester. The N N Cbz L Aspartyl beta benzyl ester 1 amino l cyclopropanecarboxylic acid 2,2,5,5 tetramethyl 1 cyclopentyl ester is dissolved in absolute alcohol at 0 C in an uitrasound bath. Palladium on carbon 10 is added. The hydrogen source, 1 4 cyclohexadiene, is added, and ultrasound is commenced for eight minutes. The slurry is then filtered through a bed of Celite with ethyl alcohol. The solvent is removed by rotary evaporation to afford the final product. Similarly, by utilizing the appropriate starting materials the following additional compounds are prepared N . aspartyl 1 aminocyclopropane 1 car boxylic acid 2,2,5, trimethylcyclopentyl ester.N L aspartyl 1 aminocyclopropane l carboxylic acid 2,5 dimethylcyclopentyl ester.N L aspartyl 1 aminocyclopropane l carboxylic acid dicyclopropylmethyi ester. N L aspartyl 1 aminocyclopropane l carboxylic acid fenchyl ester.N L aspartyl 1 aminocyclopropane l carboxylic acid 2 t butylcyclopentyl ester. N L aspartyl 1 aminocyclopropane l carboxylic acid 1 t butyl 1 cyclopropylmethyl ester.N L aspartyl I aminocyclopropane l carboxylic acid 1 isopropyl 1 cyclopropylmethyl ester. The sweetness determination with Aspartyl.1 aminocyclopropyl 1 carboxylic acid, 2,5sWimethyl 1 cyclopentyl ester gave the following results Cpmpond Sucrose Equivalents Sweetness relative to Sucrose x Sucrose 0.005 1.0 200 .01 2.2 217 .025 3.3 133EXAMPLE 4 N L Aspartyl 0 methyl serine 2,2,5, trimethyl cyclopentyl ester To a solution of 5g N Cbz D serine 2,2,5trimethylcyclopentyl ester in 50ml dry CHUCK is added 2 equivalents of Ag2O and 2 equivalents of methyl iodide.After stirring for 2 hours. the mixture is filtered and concentrated to yield the methyl ether of N Cbz D serine 2,2,5 trimethylcyclopentyl ester. 3g of N Cbz D serine methyl ether 2,2,5trimethylcyclopentyl ester is hydrogenated over 0.5g 10 Pd C in 100ml CH30H. Upon completion, the mixture is filtered and concentrated to yield 3methoxy D alanine 2,2,5 trimethylcyclopentyl ester To a magnetically stirred solution of 29 of 3 methoxy D alanine 2,2,5 trimethylcyclopentyl ester in 100ml DMF at 0 C is added 1 equivalent of NCbz L aspartic acids benzyl ester followed by addition of 1 equivalent each of Cu ll chloride and dicyclohexylcarbodiimide. After 18 hours the mixture is poured into 200ml 0.1 N HCI and extracted with 300ml ethyl acetate.The organic phase is washed with saturated NaHCO3, and H2O, dried over MgSO4, filtered and concentrated to an oil that is reconstituted in 50ml CHH and hydrogenated over 0.5g 5 Pd C. Filtration followed by concentration yields L aspartyl D.serine 2,2,5trimethylcyclopentyl ester methyl ether. Using the appropriate starting materials, the following dipeptides are additionally prepared N L Aspartyl O methyl senne 2,5 dimethylcyclopentyl esten N L AspartylS m ethyl D serine dicyclopropylmethyl ester.N L Aspartyl O methyl D serine fenchyl ester.N L Aspartyl O methyl D serine 2 t butylcyclopen tyl ester. N L Aspartyl0 methyl D serine I t butyl 1 cyclopropylmethyl ester. N L Aspartyl 0 methyl D serine 1 isopropyl 1 cyclopropylmethyl ester.N L Aspartyl O methyl D serine 2,2,5,5 tetramethylcyclopentyl esten EXAMPLE 5 L Aspartyl serine Z,2,5 bnmethylcyclopentyllester Into a suspension of N Cbz D serine 59 in 50ml of dry ThF containing 1 equivalent of 2,2,5 trimethylcyclopentanol is bubbled dry hydrogen chloride gas at room temperature. Upon complete solution of the mixture, the reaction is refluxed for 5 hours, then concentrated. Ethyl acetate is added, and this is washed with saturated sodium bicarbonate, water, and dried over MgSO4. Filtration followed by concentration yields N Cbz Oserine 2,2,5 trimethylcyclopentyl ester. 59 of this product is dissolved in 1 OmI methanol and hydrogenated in a Paar apparatus over 1 g of 5 Pd C to yield 2,2,5 trimethylcyclopentyl D serinate. To a magnetically stirred solution of 0.1 mole 2,2,5 trimethylcyciopentyl D serinate in 100ml dryDMF at 0 C under an argon atmosphere is added 1 equivalent of N Cbz L aspartic acid ss benzyl ester followed by addition of 1 equivalent each of Cu II chloride and dicyclohexylcarbodiimide. After 18 hours the mixture is poured into 200ml 0.1N HCI and extracted with 300ml ethyl acetate which is successively washed with saturated NaHCO2, H20, and dried over MgSO4.Filtration and evaporation yields N Cbz ss benzyl L aspartyl D serine 2,2,5trimethylcyclopentyl ester. 29 N Cbz ss benzyl L aspartyl D serine 2,2,5 trimethylcyclopentyl ester in 50m dry CH2OH is hydrogenated in a Paar apparatus over 5 Pd C. Upon completion of the reaction, the mixture is filtered through Celite and concentrated to dryness to yield the final product. Simiiarly, utilizing the appropriate starting materials the following additionai compounds are prepared N L Aspartyl D serine 2 ,2,5 tri methylcyclopentyl ester.N L Aspartyl D serine 2,5 dimethylcyclopentyl ester. N L Aspartyl D serine dicyclopropylmethyl este . N L Aspartyl D serine fenchyi ester.N L Aspartyl D serine 2 t butylcyclopentyl ester. N L Aspartyl D serine 1 t butyl 1 cyclopropylmethyl ester. N L Aspartyl D serine 1 isopropyl 1 cyclopropylmethyl ester. N L Aspartyi D serine 2,2,5,5 tetramethyl cyclopentyl ester.EXAMPLE 6N L Aspartyl D alanine 1 methyl 1 cyclopentyl esterA. N carbobenzoxy D alanine 1 methyl 1 cyclopentyl ester To a magnetically stirred solution of 22.3 g 0.1 mol N Cbz D alanine in 50 mls of dry dichloromethane containing 0.5 mls of concentrated sulfuric acid at 0 C, was added dropwise a 10 9 0.1 mol sample of 1 methylcyctopentanol in 50 mls of dichloromethane. After 5 days of stirring at room temperature, the mixture was heated to reflux for 4 hours, after which the reaction was cooled to room temperature, washed with 100 mls of saturated NaHCO3, 100 mls of water and dried overMgSO4.Filtration followed by evaporation of the solvent yielded 1.81 g of the product.B. D Alanine 1 methylcyclopentyl ester 1.8 6 of the compound of part A was hydrogenated in 50 mls of methanol containing 0.5 g of 5 Pd C catalyst in a Parr apparatus. The catalyst was filtered off, the solvent was removed by evaporation and 0.54 g of 1 methylcyclopentyl D alanine ester was obtained.C. Beta benzyl N carbobenzoxy L aspartyl D alanine 1 methyl 1 cyclopentyi ester To 0.54 g 0.0031 mol of the product from B in 31 mls of dimethylformamide at 0OC under an argon atmosphere is added 1.11 g 0.0031 mol ofN Cbz L aspartic acid, beta benzyl ester, followed by 417 mg 1 equiv. Cu II Cl2 and 646 mg. 1 equiv. dicyclohexylcarbodimide. This is stirred for 16 hours, after which it is poured into 200 mls of 0.1 N HCI and extracted with 3 x 100 ml of ethyl acetate.The organic phase was washed with 100 ml of water and dried over MgSO4. Filtration and evaporation of the solvent yielded 2.30 g of betabenzyl N carbobenzoxy L aspartyl D alanine 1 methyl 1 cyclopentyl ester.D. N L aspartyl D alanine 1 methyl 1 cyclopentyl ester 2.3 g of the product from C was hydrogenated over 0.5 g of Pd C 5 in methanol to yield Laspartyl D alanine l methyl l cyclopentyl ester. Sweetness determination with this compound gave the following results Percent of Compound Sucrose Equivalence Sweetness Value Relative to Sucrose x Sucrose 0.05 20 40EXAMPLE 7 N.L Aspartyl D.alanine fenchyl ester A. N carbobenoxy D alanine fenchyl ester To a magnetically stirred solution of 7.36 g 0.033 ml of N Cbz D alanine in 150 mls of dichloromethane at room temperature is added 1 equiv alent of DCC and 0.75 g of DMAP. After cooiing to 0 G, 5.08 g of fenchyl alcohol in 25 mls of dichloromethane is added dropwise.After 18 h, the urea is filtered off, and the filtrate is successively washed with 5 HCI 50 ml , saturated NaHCO2 50 ml , water 50 ml and dried over MgSO4.Filtration followed by removal of the solvent yielded the product.B. D alanine fenchyl ester 3.09 g of N Cbz D alanine fenchyl ester, as prepared in Example 7A above, was hydrogenated in 50 mls of methanol to yield 1.91 g of D alanine fenchyl ester.C. N Cbz beta benzyl L aspartyl D alanine fenchyl ester Following the procedure of Example 6 G. NCbz L aspartic acid, beta benzyl ester, Cu II C12 and dicyclohexylcarbodimide were added to a stirred solution of D alanine fenchyl ester in 59 ml of dimethylformamide at 0 C under an argon atmosphere to produce the above productD. L aspartyl D alanine fenchyl ester In the usual fashion, as described in Example 6D,N Cbz beta benzyl L aspartyl D alanine fenchyl ester was hydrogenated in 50 mls of methanol to yield the above product.EXAMPLE 8N L Aspartylalanine 2,5 dimethylcyclopentyl esterA. N carbobenzoxy D alanine 2,5 dimethylcyclopentyl ester To a magnetically stirred solution of t9.63 g 0.088 mol N Cbz D alanine, 18.34 9 1 equiv. of dicyclohexylcarbodiimide, and 0.88 g of 1 dimethylamino pyridine in 150 mls of dichloromethane at 0 C, is added 10 g 0.088 mol of 2,5 dimethyicyclopentanol. After 48 hours, the reaction mixture is filtered to remove dicyclohex ylurea and concentrated to a pale yellow oil, which is redissolved in ethyl acetate.This is successively washed with 100 mls of 5 HCI, 100 mls of saturated NaHCO2, 100 mls of saturated NaCI and 100 mls of water, dried over MgSO. and filtered.Evaporation of the solvent afforded 23.7 g of NCbz D alanine, 2,5 dimethylcyclopentylester.B. D Alanine 2,5 dimethylcyclopentyl ester 5.08 g of the product from A was hydrogenated over 0.5 g of 5 Pd C in 50 mls of CH2OH to yield 2.59 g of D alanined2,5 dimethylcyclopentyl ester.C. N Cbz beta benzyl L aspartyl D alanine 2,5 dimethylcyclopentyl ester To a solution of 9.45 g 0.05 mol of the product from B in 300 mis of dry DMF at 0 C is added 17.85 9 1 eq. of N Cbz beta benzyl L aspartic acid, 6.72 g 1 eq. copper II chloride and 10.42 g 1 eq. dicyclohexylcarbodiimide. This, at OOC under an argon atmosphere,is stirred for 18 hours. The mixture is filtered to remove the urea, and is poured onto 300 mls of 0.1 N HCI. The blue solution is extracted with 3 x 200 ml of diethyl ether and 3 x 200 ml of ethyl acetate. The combined organic phases were washed with 100 mls of NaHCO3 with saturated , 100 mls of saturatedNaCI, and 100 mls of water, and dried over MgSO.. Filtration and evaporation afforded 29.6 g of the above identified product, and was purified by flash silica gel chromatography. D. N L Aspartyl D alanine 2,5 dimethylcyclopentyl ester The product from C was hydrogenated in the usual fashion in methanol over 5 Pd C to yield the final product. Sweetness determination with this compound gave the following results Concentration Sucrose Equivalence Sweetness relative to Sucrose x Sucrose 0.005 1.16 233 0.01 2.3 230 0.025 4.82 193 0.050 7.50 150EXAMPLE 9 N L Aspartyl 1 aminocyclopropane carboxylic acid 2,2,5,5 tetramethyl 1 cyclopentyl esterA. N t butoxycarbonyl 1 aminocyclopropanecarbox ylic acid 1 To a solution of 1 aminocyclopropanecarbox ylic acid 3.03 g in saturated aqueous sodium bicarbonate 150 ml was added a solution of di tbutyldicarbonate 9.82 g in t butanol 50 ml , and the resulting mixture was stirred overnight. Water was then added and the mixture was washed with ethyl acetate. The aqueous phase was separated,made acid to pH 1 with concentrated hydrochloric acid and extracted twice with ethyl acetate.The combined extracts were washed with saturated sodium chloride, dried over magnesium sulfate, and the solvent was evaporated to yield a white solid. 4.77 g, 86 . NMR CDCI, a 1.05 1.35 m, 2H, cyciopropyi , 1.41 s, 9H, t butyl , 1.41 1.70 m, 2H, cyclopropyl , 5.20, br. s, 1H, NH , 9.25 br. s, 1H,CO2H .B. 2,5 Dimethylcyclopentyl N t butoxycarbonyl 1 am inocyclopropanecarboxylate 2 To a solution of 2,5 dimethylcyclopentanol 0.55 g. , compound 1 0.97 g ,and 4 dimethylamino pyridine 0.06 g. in a methylene chloride 100 ml was added dicyclohexylcarbodiimide 1.09 g. , and the resulting mixture was stirred overnight. The precipitated dicyclohexylurea was removed by filtration, and the filtrate was evaporated. Ethyl acetate was then added to the residue, and the mixture was filtered again. The filtrate was washed with 1 M hydrochloric acid, saturated aqueous sodium bicarbonate, and water, dried over magnesium sulfate, and the solvent was evaporated to a colorless oil 1.18 g. 83 .The product was purified by column chromotography on siiica gel, 4 1 hexane ethyl acetate, eluent. NMR CDC13 6 0.92 t, 6H, 2CHS, 1.05 2.10 m, 10H, cyclopentyl, cyclopropyl , 1.40 s, 9H, tBu , 4.60 dd., 1 H, CO2CO, 5.05 br. s, 1 H, NH .C. ss Benzyl N benzyloxycarbonyl L aspartyl 1 aminocyclopropanecarboxylic acid, 2,5 dimethylcyclopentyl ester 3 A mixture of compound 2 0.57 g , 95 ethanol 11 ml , water 7.5 mls and concentrated hydrochloric acid 4 ml was heated to reflux for 2 hours. The mixture was cooled, and 1 molar hydrochloric acid was added. The solution was washed with ethyl acetate. The separated aqueous phase was made basic with 1 M sodium hydroxide and extracted twice with ethyl acetate. The combined extracts were washed with saturated sodium chloride, dried over magnesium sulfate, and the solvent was evaporated to yield 0.22 9 of a colorless oil.Dicyclohexylcarbodiimide 0.25 g was added to a solution of the above oil, followed by Nbenzyloxycarbonylaspartic acid, beta benzyl ester 0.40 9 and copper II chloride 0.17 g in dimethyl formamide 10 mls . The resulting mixture was stirred overnight. The green mixture was then filtered to remove dicyclohexylurea, and 1 M hydrochloric acid was added to the filtrate. This was extracted twice with ethyl acetate, and the com bined extracts were washed with 1 M hydrochloric acid, saturated sodium bicarbonate and saturated sodium chloride. The solution was dried over magnesium sulfate, and the solvent was evaporated to give 0.53 g of a yellow oil.This is purified by column chromotography on silica gel,4 1 hexane ethyl acetate, eluent, to give the desired prod uct as a white solid 0.33 g, 32 . NMR CDCl3 s 0.91 t, 6H, 2CK, 0.80 2.25 m, 10H, cyclopropyl, cyclopentyl , 2.70 dd. 1 H, J, 7Hz, J2 17Hz, aspartyl CH2 , 3.00 dd., 1H, J, 5Hz, J2 l7Hz, aspartyl CH2 , 4.304.70 m, 2H, CO2CH, aspartyl OLD, 5.10 s, 4H, 2PhCH, , 5.87 br. d, 1H, NH , 6.95 br. s, 1H, NH , 7.30 s, 10H, 2Ph .D. L Aspartyl 1 aminocyclopropanecarboxylic acid, 2,5 dimethylcyclopentyl ester A mixture of compound 3 0.31 g , 1,4 cyclohexadiene 0.46 g , 10 palladium on carbon 0.3 g and 95 ethanol 10 ml was placed in an ultrasonic bath for 10 minutes. The mixture was then filtered through Celite, and the solvent was evaporated to yield 130 mg of a colorless oil which solidified upon standing. This was purified by HPLC using a reverse phase C, column, 0 methanol in water as eluent to yield the desired product as a white solid 72 mg, 40 . MP 155.5157 . FAB MS m z 313 M H, 22 217 87 , 102 69 , 88 100 . The compounds of this invention possess greater sweetness and higher stability in comparison to corresponding esters of the prior art.