# L AMINODICARBOXYLIC ACID AMIDES AND AN EDIBLE COMPOSITION CONTAINING SAME

## Abstract
Sweeteners of the formula

## Claims
1. A compound represented by the formula wherein A is alkyl containing 1 3 carbon atoms or CO₂R where R is alkyl containing 1 3 carbon atoms A is hydrogen or alkyl containing 1 3 carbon atoms with the proviso that when A is alkyl, A is alkyl A and A taken together with the carbon atom to which they are attached form cycloalkyl containing 3 4 carbon atoms Y is CHR₂ n R₁ or CHR₃R₄ R₁ is cycloalkyl, cycloalkenyl, lower alkyl substituted cycloalkyl or cycloalkenyl, bicycloalkyl, bicycloalkenyl or tricycloalkyl containing up to 10 ring carbon atoms and up to a total of 12 carbon atoms R₂ is H or alkyl containing 1 4 carbon atoms R₃ and R₄ are each cycloalkyl containing 3 4 ring carbon atoms n 0 or 1 and m 0 or 1 and food acceptable salts thereof.

## Description
This invention relates to a novel group of compounds and more particularly to a novel group of compounds particularly well suited as sweeteners in edible foodstuff. Sweetness is one of the primary taste cravings of both animals and humans. Thus, the utilization of sweetening agents in foods in order to satisfy this sensory desire is well established. Naturally occuring carbohydrate sweeteners such as sucrose, are still the most widely used sweetening agents. While thse naturally occurring carbohydrates, i.e., sugars, generally fulfill the requirements of sweet taste, the abundant usage thereof does not occur without deleterious conse quence, e.g., high caloric intake and nutritional imbalance. In fact, oftentimes the level of these sweeteners required in foodstuffs is far greater than the level of the sweetener that is desired for economic, dietetic or other functional consideration. In an attempt to eliminate the disadvantages concomitant with natural sweeteners, considerable research and expense have been devoted to the production of artificial sweeteners, such as for example, saccharin, cyclamate, dihydrochalcone, aspartame, etc. While some of these artificial sweeteners satisfy the requirements of sweet taste without caloric input, and have met with considerable commercial success, they are not, however, without their own inherent disadvantages. For example, many of these artificial sweeteners have the disadvan tages of high cost, as well as delay in the percep tion of the sweet taste, persistent lingering of the sweet taste, and very objectionable bitter, metallic aftertaste when used in food products. Since it is believed that many disadvantages of artificial sweeteners, particularly aftertaste, is a function of the concentration of the sweetener, it has been previously suggested that these effects could be reduced or eliminated by combining artificial sweeteners such as saccharin, with other ingredients such as aspartame or natural sugars, such as sorbitol, dextrose, maltose, etc. These combined products, however, have not been entirely satisfactory either. Some U.S. Patents which disclose sweetener mixtures include for example, U.S. Patent No. 4,228,198 U.S. Patent No. 4,158,068 U.S. Patent No. 4,154,862 and U.S. Patent No. 3,717,477. Accordingly, much work has continued in an attempt to develop and identify compounds that have a sweet taste and which will satisfy the need for better lower calorie sweeteners. Search continues for sweeteners that have intense sweetness, that is, deliver a sweet taste at low use levels and which will also produce enough sweetness at low levels to act as sole sweetener for most sweetener applications. Furthermore, the sweeteners sought must have good temporal and sensory qualities. Sweeteners with good temporal qualities produce a time intensity sweetness response similar to natural sweeteners without lingering. Sweeteners with good sensory qualities lack undesirable off tastes and aftertaste. Furthermore, these compounds must be economical and safe to use. In U.S. Patent No. 3,798,204, L aspartyl O t butyl L serine methyl ester and L aspartyl O t amyl L serine methyl ester are described as sweet compounds having significant sweetness. In U.S. Patent No. 4,448,716 metal complex salts of dipeptide sweetners are disclosed. In the back ground of this patent a generic formula is described as an attempt to represent dipeptide sweeteners disclosed in five prior patents U.S. Patent No. 3,475,403 U.S. Patent No. 3,492,131 Republic of South Africa Patent No. 695,083 published July 10, 1969 Republic of South Africa Patent No. 695,910 published August 14, 1969 and German Patent No. 2,054,554. The general formula attempting to represent these patents is as follows Where R₂ is hydroxy, lower alkoxy, lower alkyl, halogen, e S O Where R₃ represents an hydroxy or alkoxy and g single or double unsaturated cycloalkyls with up to eight carbons. These compounds also are not entirely satisfactory in producing a high quality sweetness or in producing a sweet response at lower levels of sweetener. Dipeptides of aspartyl cysteine and aspartyl methionine methyl esters are disclosed by Brussel, Peer and Van der Heijden in In U.S. Patent No. 4,399,163 to Brennan et al., sweeteners having the following formulas are disclosed In a related patent, Patent No. 4,411,925, Brennan, et al. disclose compounds of the above general formula with R being defined hereinabove, except R U.S. Patent No. 4,375,430 to Sklavounos discloses dipeptide sweeteners which are aromatic sulfonic acid salts of L aspartyl D alaninoamides or L aspartyl D serinamides. European Patent Application No. 95772 to Tsau describe aspartyl dipeptide sweeteners of the formula In U.S. Patent No. 3,978,034 to Sheehan, et al., R₂ is defined a cycloalkenyl or phenyl. U.S. Patent No. 3,695,898 to Hill defines R₂ as a mono or a di unsaturated alicyclic radical. Haas, et al. in Patent No. 4,029,701 define R₂ as phenyl, lower alkyl or substituted or unsubstituted cycloalkyl, cycloalkenyl or cycloalkdienyl, or S O U.S. Patent No. 3,803,223 to Mazur, et al. describe dipeptide sweeteners and anti inflammatory agents having the formula Goldkamp, et al. in U.S. Patent No. 4,011,260 describe sweeteners of the formula U.S. Patent No. 4,423,029 to Rizzi describes sweeteners of the formula European Patent Application 48,051 describes dipeptide sweeteners of the formula German Patent Application No. 7259426 dis closes U.S. Patent No. 3,971,822 to Chibata, et al., disclose sweeteners having the formula U.S. Patent No. 3,907,366 to Fujino, et al. discloses U.S. Patent No. 3,920,626 discloses N α L aspartyl derivatives of lower alkyl esters of O lower alkanoyl L serine, β alanine, γ aminobutyric acid and D β aminobutyric acid as sweeteners. Miyoshi, et al. in European Patent Application 128,654 describes gem diaminoalkane sweeteners of the formula U.S. Patent No. 3,801,563 to Nakajima, et al. disclose sweeteners of the formula European Patent Application 34,876 describes amides of L aspartyl D amino acid dipeptides of the formula In the The various dipeptide esters of the prior art have been characterized as lacking significant stability at low pH values and or thermal stability. These charac terstics have limited the scope of use of these sweeteners in food products which are of low pH values or are prepared or served at elevated temperatures. Accordingly, it is desired to find compounds that provide quality sweetness when added to foodstuffs or pharmaceuticals at low levels and thus eliminate or greatly diminish the aforesaid disadvantages associated with prior art sweeteners. The present new compounds are amides of certain α aminodicarboxylic acids and β aminoamides which are low calorie sweeteners that possess a high order of sweetness with pleasing taste and higher stability at acid pH and elevated temperatures compared to known dipeptide sweeteners. This invention provides new sweetening compounds represented by the formula In accordance with the present invention, the preferred compounds are those in which R₁ is an alkyl substituted cycloalkyl or bicycloalkyl containing 5 7 ring carbon atoms and up to a total of 10 carbon atoms. Especially preferred are cycloalkyl substituted with at least one methyl group on the β and or β carbon atoms of the cycloalkyl ring. Particularly preferred cycloalkyls include cyclopropyl, cyclopentyl, and cyclohexyl and the preferred bicycloalkyl is fenchyl. Also preferred are those compounds in which n 0. In those compounds in which n 1, R₁ is preferably a cyclopropyl group and R₂ is preferably tertiary butyl, isopropyl or cyclopropyl. The groups representative of Y in the present new compounds include such groups as cycloalkyl, e.g., cyclobutyl, cyclopentyl, cyclohexyl, cycloheptyl, etc. alkyl substituted cycloalkyls, e.g., 1 methylcyclopentyl, 1 methyl cyclohexyl, 1 methylcyclobutyl, 1 methylcycloheptyl, 1 ethylcyclobutyl, 1 ethylcyclopentyl, 1 ethylcycloheptyl, 1 ethylcyclohexyl, 1 isopropylcyclobutyl, 1 isopropyl cyclopentyl, 1 isopropylcyclohexyl, 1 isopropylcycloheptyl, 1,2 dimethylcyclohexyl, 1,2 dimethylcyclopentyl, 1,2 dimethylcycloheptyl, 1,3 dimethylcyclohexyl, 1,3 dimethylcyclopentyl, 1,3 dimethylcycloheptyl, 1,4 dimethyl cyclohexyl, 1,4 dimethylcycloheptyl, 2,3 dimethylcyclo pentyl, 2,3 dimethylcyclohexyl, 2,3 dimethylcyclo heptyl, 2,4 dimethylcyclopentyl, 2,4 dimethylcyclohexyl, 2,4 dimethylcycloheptyl, 2,5 dimethylcyclopentyl, 2,5 dimethylcyclohexyl, 2,5 dimethylcycloheptyl, 2,6 dimethylcyclohexyl, 2,6 dimethylcycloheptyl, 2,7 dimethylcycloheptyl, 3,4 dimethylcyclopentyl, 3,4 dimethylcyclohexyl, 3,4 dimethylcycloheptyl, 3,5 dimethyl cyclopentyl, 3,5 dimethylcyclohexyl, 3,5 dimethyl cycloheptyl, 4,5 dimethylcyclopentyl, 4,5 dimethyl cyclohexyl, 4,5 dimethylcycloheptyl, 3,6 dimethylcyclo hexyl, 3,6 dimethylcycloheptyl, 3,7 dimethylcycloheptyl, 4,6 dimethylcycloheptyl, 4,6 dimethylcyclohexyl, 4,7 dimethylcycloheptyl, 5,6 dimethylcyclohexyl, 5,6 dimethyl cyclohexyl, 5,6 dimethylcycloheptyl, 5,7 dimethylcyclo heptyl, 6,7 dimethycycloheptyl, 2,2 dimethylcyclopentyl, 2,2 dimethylcyclohexyl, 2,2 dimethylcycloheptyl, 3,3 dimethylcyclopentyl, 3,3 dimethylcyclonexyl, 3,3 dimethylcycloheptyl, 4,4 dimethylcyclohexyl, 4,4 dimethylcycloheptyl, 2,2,3 trimethylcyclopentyl, 2,2,3 trimethylcyclohexyl, 2,2,3 trimethylcycloheptyl, 2,2,4 trimethylcyclopentyl, 2,2,4 trimethylcyclohexyl, 2,2,4 trimethylcycloheptyl, 2,2,5 trimethylcyclopentyl, 2,2,5 trimethylcyclohexyl, 2,2,5 trimethylcycloheptyl, 2,2,6 trimethylcyclohexyl, 2,2,6 trimethylcyclohepty 2,2,7 trimethylcycloheptyl, 1,2,2 trimethylcyclopentyl, 1,2,2 trimethylcyclohexyl, 1,2,2 trimethylcycloheptyl, 1,3,3 trimethylcyclopentyl, 1,3,3 trimethylcyclohexyl, 1,3,3 trimethylcycloheptyl, 1,4,4 trimethylcyclohexyl, 1,4,4 trimethylcyclopentyl, 3,3,4 trimethylcyclopentyl, 3,3,4 trimethylcyclohexyl, 3,3,4 trimethylcycloheptyl, 2,3,3 trimethylcyclopentyl, 2,3,3 trimethylcyclohexyl, 2,3,3 trimethylcycloheptyl, 2,4,4 trimethylcyclopentyl, 2,4,4 trimethylcyclohexyl, 2,4,4 trimethylcycloheptyl, 1,2,3 trimethylcyclopentyl, 1,2,3 trimethylcyclohexyl, 1,2,3 trimethylcycloheptyl, 1,2,4 trimethylcyclopentyl, 1,2,4 trimethylcyclohexyl, 1,2,4 trimethylcycloheptyl, 1,2,5 trimethylcyclopentyl, 1,2,5 trimethylcyclohexyl, 1,2,5 trimethylcycloheptyl, 1,2,6 trimethylcyclohexyl, 1,2,6 trimethylcycloheptyl, 1,2,7 trimethylcycloheptyl, 2,3,4 trimethylcyclopentyl, 2,3,4 trimethylcyclohexyl, 2,3,4 trimethylcycloheptyl, 2,3,5 trimethylcyclopentyl, 2,3,5 trimethylcyclohexyl, 2,3,5 trimethylcycloheptyl, 2,3,6 trimethylcyclohexyl, 2,36 trimethylcycloheptyl, 2,3,7 trimethylcycloheptyl, 3,4,4 trimethylcyclohexyl, 3,4,4 trimethylcyclopentyl, 2,2,5,5 tetramethylcyclopentyl, 2,2,5,5 tetramethylcyclohexyl, 2,2,5,5 tetramethylcycloheptyl, 2,2,6,6 tetramethylcyclohexyl, 2,2,6,6 tetramethylcyclo heptyl, 2,2,7,7 tetramethylcycloheptyl, 2,2,4,4 tetramethylcyclopentyl, 2,2,4,4 tetramethylcyclohexyl, 2,2,4,4 tetramethylcycloheptyl, 2,2,3,3 tetramethyl cyclopentyl, 2,2,3,3 tetramethylcyclohexyl, 2,2,3,3 tetramethylcycloheptyl, 3,3,4,4 tetramethylcyclopentyl, 3,3,4,4 tetramethylcyclohexyl, 3,3,4,4 tetramethylcyclo heptyl, 3,3,5,5 tetramethylcyclohexyl, 3,3,5,5 tetramethyl cycloheptyl, 1,2,3,4 tetramethylcyclopentyl, 1,2,3,4 tetramethylcyclohexyl, 1,2,3,4 tetramethylcycloheptyl, 1,2,3,5 tetramethylcyclopentyl, 1,2,3,5 tetramethylcyclohexyl, 1,2,3,5 tetramethylcycloheptyl, 1,2,3,6 tetramethylcyclo hexyl, 1,2,3,6 tetramethylcycloheptyl, 2,3,4,5 tetramethyl cyclopentyl, 2,3,4,5 tetramethylcyclohexyl, 2,3,4,5 tetramethylcycloheptyl, 2,3,4,6 tetramethylcycloheptyl, 2,3,4,6 tetramethylcyclohexyl, 2,3,4,7 tetramethylcyclo heptyl, 2,2,3,4 tetramethylcyclopentyl, 2,2,3,4 tetramethylcyclohexyl, 2,2,3,4 tetramethylcycloheptyl, 2,2,3,5 tetramethylcyclopentyl, 2,2,3,5 tetramethyl cyclohexyl, 2,2,3,5 tetramethylcycloheptyl, 2,2,3,6 tetramethylcyclohexyl, 2,2,3,6 teramethylcycloheptyl, 2,2,3,7 tetramethylcycloheptyl, 2,3,3,4 tetramethylcyclo hexyl, 2,3,3,4 tetramethylcyclopentyl, 2,3,3,4 tetramethyl cycloheptyl, 2,3,3,5 tetramethylcyclopentyl, 2,2,3,5 tetramethylcyclohexyl, 2,3,3,5 tetramethylcycloheptyl, 2,3,3,6 tetramethylcyclohexyl, 2,3,3,6 tetramethylcyclo heptyl, 2,3,3,7 tetramethylcycloheptyl, 2,2,3,4 tetramethylcyclopentyl, 2,2,3,4 tetramethylcyclohexyl, 2,3,3,4 tetramethylcyclopheptyl, 2,2,3,5 tetramethyl cyclopentyl, 2,2,3,5 tetramethylcyclohexyl, 2,2,3,6 tetramethylcyclohexyl, 2,2,3,6 tetramethylcycloheptyl, 2,2,3,7 tetramethylcycloheptyl, 2,2,4,5 tetramethylcyclopentyl, 2,2,4,5 tetramethylcyclohexyl, 2,2,4,5 tetramethylcyclo heptyl, 2,2,4,6 tetramethylcyclohexyl, 2,2,4,6 tetramethyl cycloheptyl, 2,2,4,7 tetramethylcycloheptyl, dicyclopropylmethyl, t butylcyclopropylmethyl, t butylcyclopentyl methyl, 2 isopropylcyclopentyl, 2 t butylcyclopentyl, 2 isopropyl cyclohexyl, 2 t butylcyclopentyl, 2 isopropylcyclohexyl, 2 t butyl cyclohexyl, 2 t amylcyclopentyl, t amylcyclopropylmethyl, dicyclobutylmethyl, t butylcyclobutylmethyl, 3 methylcyclopheptylisopropyl, 2 methylcycloheptylisopropyl, 2 methylcyclohexylisopropyl, 2 methylcyclopentylisopropyl, etc. cycloalkenes, e.g., cyclopentenyl, cyclohexenyl, cyclo heptenyl, etc. alkyl substituted cycloalkenes, e.g., 1 methyl 3 cyclopentenyl, 1 methyl 3 cyclohexenyl, 1 methyl 3 cycloheptenyl, 1 methyl 4 cycloheptenyl, 3 cyclopentenylisopropyl, 3 cyclohexenylisopropyl, 3 cycloheptenylisopropyl, 4 cycloheptenylisopropyl, 3 cyclopentenylmethyl, 3 cyclopentenylethyl, 3 cyclo hexenylpropyl, 3 cyclohexenylethyl, 3 cycloheptenylpropyl, 3 cycloheptenylethyl, 4 cycloheptenylmethyl, 4 cyclo heptenylethyl, 2 methyl 3 cyclohexenyl, 2 methyl 3 cyclopentenyl, 2 methyl 3 cycloheptenyl, 2 methyl 4 cycloheptenyl, 3 methyl 3 cyclohexenyl, 3 methyl 3 cyclo pentenyl, 3 methyl 3 cycloheptenyl, 4 methyl 3 cyclo heptenyl, 4 methyl 3 cyclohexenyl, 4 methyl 3 cyclo pentenyl, 5 methyl 3 cyclopentenyl, 5 methyl 3 cyclo hexenyl, 5 methyl 3 cycloheptenyl, 6 methyl 3 cyclohexenyl, 6 methyl 3 cycloheptenyl, 2 methyl 2 cyclopentenyl, 2 methyl 2 cyclohexenyl, 2 methyl 2 cycloheptenyl, 2 methyl 2 cyclopentenyl, 3 methyl 2 cyclohexenyl, 3 methyl 2 cycloheptenyl, 1 methyl 2 cyclopentenyl, 1 methyl 2 cyclohexenyl, 1 methyl 2 cycloheptenyl, 5 methyl 2 cyclohexenyl, 4 methyl 2 cyclopentenyl, 4 methyl 2 cycloheptenyl, 5 methyl 2 cyclohexenyl, 5 methyl 2 cycloheptenyl, 6 methyl 2 cyclohexenyl, 6 methyl 2 cycloheptenyl, 7 methyl 2 cycloheptenyl, 2,3 dimethyl 2 cyclopentenyl, 2,3 dimethyl 2 cyclo hexenyl, 2,4 dimethyl 2 cyclopentenyl, 2,4 dimethyl 2 cyclohexenyl, 2,5 dimethyl 2 cyclohexenyl, 2,5 dimethyl 2 cycloheptenyl, 2,6 dimethyl 2 cyclohexenyl, 2,6 dimethyl 3 cyclohexenyl, 2,5 dimethyl 3 cyclohexenyl, 2,5 dimethyl 2 cyclopentenyl, 2,4 dimethyl 3 cyclopentenyl, 2,4 dimethyl 3 cyclohexenyl, 3,3 dimethyl 3 cyclopentenyl, 3,3 dimethyl 3 cyclohexenyl, 3,4 dimethyl 3 cyclopentenyl, 3,4 dimethyl 3 cyclohexenyl, 4,5 dimethylcyclo 3 pentenyl, 4,5 dimethyl 3 cyclo 3 hexenyl, 5,5 dimethyl 3 cyclo hexenyl, 5,5 dimethyl 3 cyclopentenyl, 5,5 dimethyl 3 cyclo heptenyl, 6,6 dimethyl 3 cyclohexenyl, 1,2 dimethyl 3 cyclopentenyl, 1,2 dimethyl 3 cyclohexenyl, 1,3 dimethyl 3 cyclopentenyl, 1,3 dimethyl 3 cyclohexenyl, 1,3 dimethyl 3 cycloheptenyl, 1,4 dimethyl 3 cyclopentenyl, 1,4 dimethyl 3 cyclohexenyl, 1,4 dimethyl 3 cyclohexenyl, 1,5 dimethyl 3 cyclopentenyl, 1,5 dimethyl 3 cyclohexenyl, 1,5 dimethyl 3 cycloheptenyl, 2,2,6 trimethyl 3 cyclohexenyl, 2,2,5 trimethyl 3 cyclohexenyl, 2,5,5 trimethyl 3 cyclohexenyl, 2,5,5 trimethyl 3 cyclopentenyl,, 2,7,7 trimethyl 3 cycloheptenyl, 2,7,7 trimethyl 4 cycloheptenyl, 2,2,7 trimethyl 3 cycloheptenyl, 2,2,7 trimethyl 4 cycloheptenyl, 2,3,6 trimethyl 3 cyclohexenyl, 2,3,7 trimethyl 3 cyclo heptenyl, 2,3,5 trimethyl 3 cyclopentenyl, 2,2,6,6 tetra methyl 3 cyclohexenyl, 2,2,5,5 tetramethyl 3 cyclopentenyl, 2,2,7,7 tetramethyl 3 cycloheptenyl, 2,3,5,5 tetramethyl 3 cyclopentenyl, 2,3,6,6 tetramethyl 3 cyclohexenyl, 2,3,7,7 tetramethyl 3 cycloheptenyl, 2,3,6,6 tetramethyl 3 cycloheptenyl, 2,3,5,5 tetramethyl 3 cyclohexenyl, 2,3,4,5 tetramethyl 3 cyclopentenyl, 2,3,4,5 tetramethyl 3 cyclohexenyl, etc bicyclic compounds, such as norbornyl, norcaranyl, norpinanyl, bicyclo 2.2.2 octyl, etc. alkyl substituted bicyclic compounds, e.g., 6,6 dimethyl bicyclo 3.1.1 heptyl, 6,7,7 trimethylnorbornyl bornyl or camphanyl , pinanyl, thujanyl, caranyl, fenchyl, 2 norbornylmethyl, etc. unsubstituted and alkyl substituted bicyloalkenes such as norbornenyl, norpinenyl, norcarenyl, 2 4 norbornenyl methyl, pinenyl, carenyl, fenchenyl, etc., and tricyclo compounds such as adamantyl and alkylsubstituted adamantyl, etc. The preferred R₁ is cycloalkyl or bicycloalkyl or alkyl substituted cycloalkyl or bicycloalkyl, especially where the alkyl group is in the β or β positions. Further, preference exists for compounds in which R₁ is a cycloalkyl with two, three or four alkyl groups in the β,β positions such as β, β, β , β tetraalkyl substituted cyclopentyl, cyclobutyl, cyclohexyl, and cycloheptyl, as well as β, β, β trialkyl substituted cyclobutyl, cyclopropyl, cyclohexyl, cyclo pentyl, and cycloheptyl, and fenchyl. Also preferred are β alkylcycloalkyls in which the alkyl group is isopropyl or tertiary butyl. These novel compounds are effective sweetness agents when used alone or in combination with other sweeteners in an ingesta, e.g., foodstuffs or pharmaceu ticals. For example, other natural and or artificial sweeteners which may be used with the novel compounds of the present invention include sucrose, fructose, corn syrup solids, dextrose, xylitol, sorbitol, mannitol, acetosulfam, thaumatin, invert sugar, saccharin, thiophene saccharin, meta aminobenzoic acid, meta hydroxybenzoic acid, cyclamate, chlorosucrose, dihydro chalcone, hydrogenated glucose syrups, aspartame L aspartyl L phenylalanine methyl ester and other dipeptides, glycyrrhizin and stevioside and the like. These sweeteners when employed with the sweetness agents of the present invention, it is believed, could produce synergistic sweetness responses. Furthermore, when the sweetness agents of the present invention are added to ingesta, the sweetness agents may be added alone or with nontoxic carriers such as the abovementioned sweeteners or other food ingredients such as acidulants and natural and artificial gums. Typical foodstuffs, and pharmaceu tical preparations, in which the sweetness agents of the present invention may be used are, for example, beverages including soft drinks, carbonated beverages, ready to mix beverages and the like, infused foods e.g. vegetables or fruits , sauces, condiments, salad dressings, juices, syrups, desserts, including puddings, gelatin and frozen desserts, like ice creams, sherbets, icings and flavored frozen desserts on sticks, confections, toothpaste, mouthwash, chewing gum, cereals, baked goods, intermediate moisture foods e.g. dog food and the like. In order to achieve the effects of the present invention, the compounds described herein are general ly added to the food product at a level which is effective to perceive sweetness in the food stuff and suitably is in an amount in the range of from about 0.0005 to 2 by weight based on the consumed product. Greater amounts are operable but not practical. Preferred amounts are in the range of from about 0.001 to about 1 of the foodstuff. Generally, the sweetening effect provided by the present compounds are experienced over a wide pH range, e.g. 2 to 10 preferably 3 to 7 and in buffered and unbuffered formulations. It is desired that when the sweetness agents of this invention are employed alone or in combination with another sweetner, the sweetener or combination of sweeteners provide a sucrose equivalent in the range of from about 2 weight percent to about 40 weight percent and more preferably from about 3 weight percent to about 15 weight percent in the foodstuff or pharmaceutical. A taste procedure for determination of sweetness merely involves the determination of sucrose equiva lency. Sucrose equivalence for sweeteners are readily determined. The amount of a sweetener that is equivalent to a given weight percent sucrose can be determined by having a panel of tasters taste solutions of a sweetener at known concentrations and match its sweetness to standard solutions of sucrose. In order to prepare compounds of the present in vention, several reaction schemes may be employed. In one reaction scheme, compound I is prepared under art recognized amide forming conditions. Compounds of the general formula II protected α aminodicarboxylic acids and III substituted 2 amino acetamide are reacted together to form compounds of formula IV. Subsequent removal of protecting groups B and Z from compounds of general formula IV give the desired compounds of general formula I In these, group Z is an amino protecting group, B is a carboxyl protecting group, and A, A , Y, and n have the same meaning as previously described. A variety of protecting groups known in the art may be employed. Examples of many of these possible groups may be found in Protective Groups in Organic Synthesis by T.W. Green, John Wiley and Sons, 1981. Amond the preferred groups that may be employed are benzyl oxycarbonyl for A and benzyl for B. Coupling of compounds with general formula II to compounds having general formula III employs established techniques in peptide chemistry. One such technique uses dicyclohexylcarbodiimide DCC as the coupling agent. The DCC method may be employed with or without additives such as 4 dimethyl aminopyridine or copper II . The DCC coupling reaction generally proceeds at room temperature, however, it may be carried out from about 20 to 50 C. in a variety of solvents inert to the reactants. Thus suitable solvents include, but are not limited to, N,N dimethyl formamide, methylene chloride, toluene and the like. Preferably the reaction is carried out under an inert atmosphere such as argon or nitrogen. Coupling usually is complete within 2 hours but may take as long as 24 hours depending on reactants Various other methods can be employed to prepare the desired compounds. The following illustrates such methods using aspartic acid as the amino dicarboxylic acid and serine as the amino monocarboxylic acid. Of course, other amino di and monocarboxylic acids can be substituted for these exemplary acids. For example, U.S. Patents 3,786,039 3,833,553 3,879,372 and 3,933,781 disclose the reaction of N protected aspartic anhydrides with amino acids and amino acid derivatives to yield the desired products. These N protected aspartic anhydrides can be reacted with compounds of formula III by methods disclosed in the above patents. As described in U.S. Patent 3,786,039 compounds of formula III can be reacted directly in inert organic solvents with L aspartic anhydride having its amino group protected by a formyl, carbobenzloxy, or p methoxycarbobenzloxy group which is subsequently removed after coupling to give compounds of general formula I. The N acyl L aspartic anhydrides are prepared by reacting the corresponding acids with acetic anhydride in amounts of 1.0 1.2 moles per mole of the N acyl L aspartic acid at 0 to 60 C in an inert solvent. The N acyl L aspartic anhydrides are reacted with preferably 1 to 2 moles of compounds of formula III in an organic solvent capable of dissolving both and inert to the same. Suitable solvents are, but not limited to, ethyl acetate, methyl propionate, tetrahydrofuran, dioxane, ethyl ether, N,N dimethylformamide and benzene. The reaction proceeds smoothly at 0 to 30 C. The N acyl group is removed after coupling by catalytic reaction proceeds smoothly at 0 to 30 C. The N acyl group is removed after coupling by catalytic hydrogenation with palladium on carbon or with HBr or HCl in a conventional manner. U.S. Patent No. 3,879,372 discloses that this coupling method can also be performed in an aqueous solvent at a temperature of 10 to 50 C and at a pH of 4 12. Another method for the synthesis of the desired compounds is the reaction of compounds of formula III with suitable aspartic acid derivatives in which protecting groups have been attached to the amino and beta carboxy groups and the alpha carboxy group has been converted to a reactive ester function. As disclosed in U.S. Patent 3,475,403 these coupled products may be deprotected as described to yield the desired compounds of formula I. An alternative scheme to the desired coupled compounds involves reaction of compounds of formula III with L aspartic acid N thiocarboxyanhydride by the method of Vinick and Jung, Compounds of general formula III, in which the amino groups are protected, synthesized using art recognized techniques. For example, compounds of formula III can be synthesized by standard amidation methods known in the art by reacting the free acid or acid functional equivalents, such as esters or anhydrides, with the corresponding amines under amide forming conditions, as for example in the presence of a coupling agent, such as dicyclohexylcarbo diimide. Reaction temperatures are in the range of 78 C to reflux. The reaction is carried out in a solvent that will dissolve both reactants and is inert to both as well. Solvents include, but are not limited to, methylene chloride, diethyl ether, tetrahydrofuran, dimethyl sulfoxide, dimethyl formamide, and the like. With regard to the removal of protecting groups from compounds of formula IV and N protected precur sors of formula III, a number of deprotecting techniques are known in the art and can be utilized to advantage depending on the nature of the protect ing groups. Among such techniques is catalytic hydrogenation utilizing palladium on carbon or transfer hydrogenation with 1,4 cyclohexadiene. Generally the reaction is carried at room temperature but may be conducted from 5 to 65 C. Usually the reaction is carried out in the presence of a suitable solvent which may include, but are not limited to water, methanol, ethanol, dioxane, tetrahydrofuran, acetic acid, t butyl alcohol, isopropanol or mixtures thereof. The reaction is usually run at a positive hydrogen pressure of 50 psi but can be conducted over the range of 20 to 250 psi. Reactions are generally quantitative taking 1 to 24 hours for completion. In any of the previous synthetic methods the desired products are preferably recovered from reaction mixtures by crystallization. Alternatively, normal or reverse phase chromatography may be utilized as well as liquid liquid extraction or other means. The desired compounds of formula I are usually obtained in the free acid form they may also be recovered as their physiologically acceptable salts, i.e., the corresponding amino salts such as hydrochloride, sulfate, hydrosulfate, nitrate, hydrobromide, hydroiodide, phospate or hydrophosphate or the alkali metal salts such as the sodium, potassium, lithium, or the alkaline earth metal salts such as calcium or magnesium, as well as aluminum, zince and like salts. Conversion of the free peptide derivatives of formula I into their physiologically acceptable salts is carried out by conventional means, as for example, bringing the compounds of formula I into contact with a mineral acid, an alkali metal hydroxide, an alkali metal oxide or carbonate or an alkaline earth metal hydroxide, oxide, carbonate or other complexed form. These physiologically acceptable salts can also be utilized as sweetness agents usually having increased solubility and stability over their free forms. It is known to those skilled in the art that the compounds of the present invention having asymmetric carbon atoms may exist in racemic or optically active forms. All of these forms are contemplated within the scope of the invention. The compounds of the present invention have one asymmetric site, which is designated by an asterik in the formula below, and one pseudoasymmetric site which is desig nated by a doulbe asterik The following examples further illustrate the invention. To a stirred solution of N Cbz 2 aminoisobutyric acid in dry CH₂Cl₂ containing dicyclohexylcarbodiimide and dimethyl aminopyridine DMAP , all at 0 C, is added, via an addition funnel, 2,2,5,5 tetramethyl 1 cyclopentyl amine dissolved in CH₂Cl₂. After stirring for 48 hours, the mixture is filtered, and the filtrate is washed with 5 HCl 1 50ml , saturated NaHCO₃ 1 50ml , and water 1 50ml . The organic layer is separated, dried over MgSO₄ and is evaporated to yield N Cbz 2 aminoisobutyric acid 2,2,5,5 tetramethylcyclopentyl amide. N Cbz 2 aminoisobutyric acid 2,2,5,5 tetramethyl cyclopentyl amide is dissolved in CH₃OH and is hydrogenated over 5 Pd C in a Parr hydrogenation apparatus. When the reaction is complete the mixture is filtered through Celite and concentrated to yield 2 aminoisobutyric acid 2,2,5,5 tetra methylcyclopentyl amide. To a magentically stirred solution of 2 aminoisobutyric acid 2,2,5,5 tetramethylcyclopentyl amide in dry dimethylformamide at 0 C. under argon atmosphere is added N Cbz L aspartic acid N N Cbz L Aspartyl Using the appropriate starting materials, these additional dipeptides are prepared N To a stirred solution of N Cbz 1 aminocyclopropane carboxylic acid in dry Ch₂Cl₂ containing dicyclohexylcarbo diimide and dimethylaminopyridine DMAP , all at 0 C, is added, via an addition funnel, 2,2,5,5 tetramethyl 1 cyclopentyl amine dissolved in CH₂Cl₂. After stirring for 48 hours, the mixture is filtered, and the filtrate is washed with 5 HCl 1 50ml , saturated NaHCO₃ 1 50ml , and water 1 50ml . The organic layer is separated, dried over MgSO₄ and evaporated to yield N Cbz 1 aminocyclopropanecarboxylic acid 2,2,5,5 tetramethyl cyclopentyl amide. The N Cbz 1 aminocyclopropanecarboxylic acid 2,2,5,5 tetramethylcyclopentyl amide is hydrogenated utilizing transfer hydrogenation. The above reaction is dissolved in absolute ethyl alcohol at 0 C in an ultrasound bath. Palladium on carbon 10 is added. The hydrogen source, 1,4 cyclohexadiene, is added and ultrasound is commenced for eight minutes. The slurry is then filtered through a bed of celite with ethyl alcohol. Rotary evaporation affords the free amine. To a magnetically stirred solution of 1 aminocyclo propanecarboxylic acid 2,2,5,5 tetramethylcyclopentyl amide in dry dimethylformamide at 0 C under argon atmosphere is added N Cbz L aspartic acid N N Cbz L Aspartyl Using the appropriate starting materials, these additional dipeptides are prepared N The above compound is prepared according to the procedure of Example 1, except N Cbz aminomalonic acid methyl ester is substituted for N Cbz 2 aminoisobutyric acid. Similarly, by utilizing the appropriate starting materials, the following additional compounds are prepared N The above compound is prepared according to the pro cedure in Example 1, except N Cbz 2 amino 2 methylmalonic acid methyl ester is substituted for N Cbz 2 aminoisobutyric acid. Similarly, by utilizing the appropriate starting materials, the following additional compounds are prepared N To a solution of monomethyl N benzyloxy carbonylaminomalonate 4.00 g , Compound 1 0.40 g. was dissolved in methanol 50 ml and hydrogenated at 50 lb in² over 10 palladium on carbon for 2 hrs. The catalyst was removed by filtration through Celite, and the filtrate evaporated to give 0.24 g. of yellow oil. This was dissolved in methylene chloride 50 ml , and N CBZ Compound 2 420 mg was dissolved in methanol 100 ml and hydrogenated at 50 lb in² over 10 palladium on carbon for 3 hours. The catalyst was removed by filtration through Celite, and the solvent was evaporated to yield a white solid 280 mg . This was purified by HPLC, C₁₈ column, 80 methanol, 20 water, eluent, to yield the desired compound 170 mg, 70 yield . mp. 141 145 d. FAB MS M Z 342 M H 90 , 227 45 , 185 16 , 133 17 , 95 100 . Sweetness determination with this product gave the following results The compounds of this invention, possess greater sta bility than corresponding amides of the prior art. In addition, the present compounds lack a chiral center when A is other than a carbalkoxy group and are readily preparable and easily pur ified. The compounds wherein A is carbalkoxy, particularly carbomethoxy, are sweeter than corresponding amides of the prior art.