# Pool cleaner.

## Abstract
A pool cleaner comprises an electrically driven endless track vehicle drawing water through a filter compartment and expelling the water normal to the surface on which the vehicle runs. The endless tracks 22 and a pump impeller 33 are driven by a single motor 30 . The impeller 33 is mounted on a shaft 34 co axial with the motor 30 . The endless tracks 22 are driven through a reduction gearing system. The eye of the impeller is open to a space containing a filter 15, 16 and the impeller 33 expels water radially into a volute manifold 14 in a direction normal to the surface on which the vehicle runs.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A pool cleaner of the kind comprising an electrically driven endless track vehicle drawing water through a filter compartment and expelling the water normal to the surface on which the vehicle runs, characterised in that endless tracks 22 and a pump impeller 33 are driven by a single motor 30 , the impeller 33 is mounted on a shaft 34 co axial with the motor 30 , the endless tracks 22 are driven through a reduction gearing system, the eye of the impeller is open to a space containing a filter 15,16 and the impeller 33 expels water radially into a volute manifold 14 in a direction normal to the surface on which the vehicle runs.

## Description
POOL CLEANER This invention relates to pool cleaners comprising an electrically driven endless track vehicle which draws water through a filter compartment and expels the water normal to the surface on which the vehicle runs. Pool cleaners of this kind in question have been disclosed in USA Patent 4.168.557 from which it will be seen that an unbalanced float and random timing of a reversing switch causes the vehicle to traverse a pool floor in random fashion. The endless tracks are driven by a reversible electrical motor. Drawing of water through the filter compartment is by means of an axial flow impeller driven by a second motor. According to the invention a pool cleaner of the kind comprising an electrically driven endless track vehicle drawing water through a filter compartment and expelling the water normal to the surface on which the vehicle runs, is characterised in that the endless tracks and a pump impeller are driven by a single motor the impeller is mounted on a shaft co axial with the motor. the endless tracks are driven through a reduction gearing system. the eye of the impeller is open to a space containing a filter, and the impeller expells water radially into a volute manifold in a direction normal to the surface on which the vehicle runs. A preferred embodiment of the invention is illustrated in the accompanying drawings, in which Figure 1 is a section through a pool cleaner, and Figure 2 is a section on line 2 2 in Figure 1. The cleaner has a body 10 containing a housing 11 for the electrical components, a gear box 12 and a pump housing 13 having a volute manifold aperture 14 in the body 10. A filter screen 15 which is U shaped extends from end to end across the body 10. A filter bag 16 carried by a lid 17, is stiffened by wires 18 across the bottom of the body 10 and extends around the screen 15. The body 10 is mounted on axles 20 carrying four wheels 21 joined by endless tracks 22. Each endless track also passes over the top of a grooved pulley 23.Drive belts 24 connect each pulley with the wheels 21 which are also grooved. Attached to the body 10 is an unbalanced float not shown . Between pairs of wheels there are rollers not shown as described in the already mentioned U.S.A. Patent 4,168,557. In the housing 11 there is a reversible 24V AC motor 30 and an electronic control box 29. The motor shaft 31 is connected to a drive shaft 32 passing through seals in the neck of the housing 11. The drive shaft 32 is in turn connected to a pump impeller 33 mounted at the protruding end of the high speed shaft 34 of the gear box 12. The slow speed shaft 35 is the drive shaft of the pulleys 23. As in the cleaner of the above mentioned U.S.A.Patent 4,168,557 the control box 31 controls the motor 30 to reverse the direction of rotation of the motor 30 at random intervals. Also the control box is programmed to shut down the motor 30 after a predetermined time and in response to sensors in the housing 11 which detect the presence of water in that housing. Flaps are biased to close the inlet to the filter but open under the suction created by the impeller 33.