# ASSAYING METHOD FOR PRIMARY AMINES USING AROMATIC DIALDEHYDES

## Claims
Verfahren zur Untersuchung primärer Amine, welches die Schritte umfaßt

## Description
The present invention relates to the fluorometric and electrochemical detection of low levels of primary amines and more particularly, of biogenic and endogenous amines such as catechol amines, amino acids, and peptides, by chemically converting the non fluorescing amine of interest to an entity which is amenable to both fluorescent and electrochemical detection. Such conversion is achieved by reacting fluorogenic reagents having an aromatic dialdehyde ring with the primary amine in the presence of a cyanide ion under mildly alkaline conditions. Assaying techniques wherein a fluorogenic reagent is reacted with a substrate to form a fluorescing complex have been known for some time. One reagent used specifically for the derivatization of primary amines has been o phthaldehyde OPA which is of the formula Although the fluorophores generated by the reaction of primary amines and OPA exhibit a relatively high fluorescent intensity with respect to many primary amines, it has been observed that the fluorescent intensity of the isoindole derivatives of primary amines containing an α amido group are substantially lower. Thus, the OPA thiol derivatizing system is not useful for the detection of femtomole quantities of peptides and proteins. Such represents a significant drawback of OPA for assaying many biological systems. Another problem encountered with fluorogenic assaying techniques employing OPA relates to the relative instability of the 1,2 disubstituted isoindoles of certain amines such as glycine, amino butyric acid GABA , and B alanine. These compounds have been observed to readily degrade into non fluorescent products thereby placing severe time constraints on a practitioner when a concentration profile of the above amino acids is desired. Naphthalene 2,3 dicarboxyaldehyde NDA of the formula In view of the foregoing limitations and shortcomings of prior art assaying techniques as well as other disadvantages not specifically mentioned above, it should be apparent that there still exists a need in the art for a method which enables assaying of trace concentrations of analytes containing one or more primary amino groups. It is, therefore, a primary objective to fulfill that need by providing a process wherein an aromatic dialdehyde is reacted with as little as 10 ¹⁵ moles of primary amine in a solution to yield compound which is detectable using fluorometric or electrochemical assaying techniques. More particularly, it is an object of this invention to provide a process for assaying biogenic and endogenous amines such as catechol amines, amino acids, and peptides, such as glycyl glycine and alanyl alanine. According to the present invention there is provided a method of assaying primary amines comprising the steps of The method of the present invention leads to the formation of a fluorescent compound which is amenable to detection by fluorometric and electrochemical techniques in amine concentrations as low as 10 ¹² moles liter, and potentially even lower. The compounds formed in the assaying process of the invention are highly stable. The compounds exhibit a high degree of fluorescence, and thus are amenable to fluorometric techniques. Furthermore, the compounds undergo anodic oxidation at moderate potential and thus are amenable to electrochemical detection techniques. By the method of the present invention, a primary amine is reacted with an aromatic dialdehyde in the presence of cyanide ions. The aromatic dialdehydes may be selected from either substituted or unsubstituted naphthalene 2,3 dicarboxyaldehydes, and particularly those of the formula wherein Unsubstituted naphthalene 2,3, dicarboxyaldehyde of the formula is a known compound and was prepared by the following alternative sequences The latter process is reported by W. Ried and H. Bodem in Chem. Ber., Vol. 89, p. 708 1956 . The substituted 2,3 naphthalene dialdehydes are prepared by forming a suitably substituted o phthaldehyde for use in reaction I above. Thus, R₁, R₂, R₃, and R₄ substituents of the NDA can be selected by reacting similarly substituted o xylene or phthalic anhydride as precursors to o phthaldehyde according to the following sequences The aromatic dialdehydes were reacted with the primary amine analytes in the presence of cyanide ion CN , or a precursor thereof, in a mild alkaline aqueous medium to give a highly stable compound which is intensely fluorescent and is electroactive at moderate potential. Use of the inventive compounds enables detection of the described class of analytes in the femtomole range and beyond. The reaction of the aromatic dicarboxyaldehyde was typically carried out at room temperature or 30 C at a pH from 9 to 10. Generally, a 100 to 200 micromolar solution of NDA was combined with a 100 to 200 micromolar solution of NaCN in the presence of a 10 to 100 millimolar borate buffer solution. For this NDA CN system, the excitation and emission wavelengths were 420 nm and 490nm, respectively. These conditions are merely illustrative, and one skilled in the art will appreciate that conditions may be varied without affecting the compound formation. When the above compounds were fluorometrically analyzed, it was observed that assaying could be carried out with as little as 50 femtomoles of analyte. The compounds of the present invention are also amenable to electrochemical analytical techniques. The highly fluorescent compounds of the present invention are formed by reacting the aromatic dialdehyde with the primary amine and cyanide by the following sequence When the NDA CN compounds are formed with a mixture of primary amines before the separating step, such as HPIC, it is possible that two peaks will be observed for each primary amine analyte due to the formation of isomers as shown by the following Since it is undesirable to obtain two peaks for each analyte in the chromotographic system, it is preferred to maintain the symmetry of the fluorogenic reagents through di or tetrasubstitution wherein R₁ and R₄, R₂ and R₃, and R₅ and R₆ are identical. The method of the present invention may be performed in the presence of a plurality of primary amines and may further comprise the step of separating the plurality of primary amines into individual amines preferably by high performance liquid chromatography. The step of separating may be carried out before or after reacting the substituted or unsubstituted naphthalene 2,3 dicarboxyaldehyde. Where appropriate, the method may use a 2,3 naphthalene dicarboxyaldehyde which is di substituted or tetrasubstituted. The invention will be further clarified by a consideration of the following examples. Into a low actinic 10m volumetric flask were added 9.6 ml of a 0.1 molar solution of sodium borate followed by 100 microliters of a 10 ⁴ M solution of the following 16 amino acids A Schoeffel detector was used to measure fluorescence. The excitation wavelength was 420 nm and the emission wavelength 470 nm. An ODS 5µ column van also used. The gradient was 15 55 CH₃CN in phosphate buffer. Solvent A Mobile Phase was 15 CH₃CN and 85 0.05 M PO₄ at a pH of 6.8. Solvent B was 55 CH₃CN and 45 0.05 M PO₄ at 9 pH of 6.8. A chromatogram of the mixture was taken after 265 and 360 minutes and is shown at Fig. 1. The profiles after such time periods demonstrate the stabilities of the compounds of the present invention. A solution containing about 1 mg ml of NDA CN aspartame in borate buffer at a pH of 9.5 was analyzed by HPLC UV 254nm using a Waters 10µ column, an injection volume of 20 microliters, and a mobile phase comprised of 30 CH₃CN in H₂O. Two peaks were observed See Fig. 2 , one of which increased with time and the other of which decreased with time. Without being limited by theory, it is believed that hydrolysis of the methyl ester of the dipeptide occurs since the second peak the most hydrophobic is the one decreasing with time. A 2.0 x 10 ⁴ M solution of NDA was combined with a 2.0 x 10 ⁶ M solution of alanine in the presence of varying concentrations of cyanide ion. The pH of the mixture was 9.5 in a borate buffer at 25 C. and an ionic strength of 0.1. A graph of this relationship is shown in Fig. 3. The same determination of k In a quartz cuvette were added 100 microliters of 60 micromolar alanine solution followed by 100 microliters of 0.01 M NDA and 0.1 M NaCN in water. The relative fluorescent intensities of the exitation and emission spectra are shown in Figs. 5 and 6 respectively. Table I below lists the first order rate constants, k First order rate constants for the reaction of NDA with alanine and cyanide at 30 C, NDA 0.20 mM, CN 0.20 mM and Ala 1.0 uM, pH maintained by pH stat, ionic strength 0.1. A 10 ⁴ M solution of glycine, β alanine, GABA, and N acetyllysine were reacted with a 0.01 M solution of NDA and 0.05 M CN to yield in 0.1 M borate buffer at pH 9.3, 10 ⁶ M of the fluorophores. 50 microliters were then injected into HPLC device, with an R value of 0.5 µA. Separation using a linear gradient over 30 min from 15 CH₃CN to 55 CH₃CN in 0.05 M PO₄ at a pH of 6.8. The elution profiles after 15 minutes and 3 hours are shown in Fig. 8. As can be seen from Fig. 8, little or no degradation of the reaction products of the four amino acids with NDA CH was observed after 3 hours at a pH of 9.3. 50 microliters of 10 ⁴ M of a mixture of 16 amino acids were derivatized by reacting them with 50 microliters of 0.05 M NaCN and 100 µ1 of 0.01 M NDA for 2 minutes. This solution mixture was then diluted to give a 10 ⁸ M solution of amino acids. A 50 microliter aliquot of the solution was then injected into the HPLC, i.e., 500 femtomoles. The column was ODS hypersil, 5 µm particles, 4.6 x 150 mm. The guard column was 4.6 x 150 mm. The mobile phases were A 15 CH₃CN 85 PO₄, 0.05 M, pH 6.8 and B 55 CH₃CN 45 PO₄, 0.05 M, pH 6.8. The gradient was linear 100 A to 100 B in 60 min. The flow rate was 1.0 ml min. A Schoeffel Detector FS970 was used. The exitation wavelength was 246 nm and the emission wavelength 470 nm. The time constant was 6s and the range was 0.2 µA. The chromatograph is shown at Fig. 9. 500 femtomoles of the reaction product o phthaldehyde mercaptoethanol and the same 16 amino acids analyzed in Example 7 were likewise subjected to an identical HPLC separation. The concentration of OPA was 1.8 x 10 ⁶ whereas the concentration of mercapto ethanol was 10 x 10 ⁶ M. The reaction was carried out in a 0.1 M sodium borate solution and the products fluorometrically analyzed at an excitation wavelength of 230 nm and an emission wavelength of greater than 418 nm. The chromatogram is shown at Fig. 10. It will be appreciated that in contrast to the inventive compounds, the resolution of the OPA 2ME amino acid reaction products is not nearly as great. The degradation profiles of A 1 cyano 2 glycylbenzo isoindole and B 1 mercaptoethanol 2 glycyl isoindole were compared. The compounds were analyzed in a mixed solvent, protected from light, consisting of 20 methanol and 80 borate buffer 0.1 M, pH 9.5 . The mixture was maintained at 25 C. and monitored by HPLC. As shown in Fig. 11, the compounds of the present invention are far more stable than those obtained with OPA. The detection limits of OPA ME versus NDA CN were again compared. An LKB 2151 variable wavelength monitor Absolute wavelength of 335 nm for OPA and 420 nm for NDA a Farrand optical spectrofluorometer OPA excitation and emission wavelengths of 335 and 430 nm and NDA excitation and emission wavelengths of 420 and 480 nm and a Rheodyne injector 20 microliter loop were used. An LKB 2152 HPLC controller, an LKB 2150 HPLC pump and an LKB 2210 HPLC recorder were also used. The mobile phase for the OPA ME products was 18 CH₃CN 82 0.05M PO₄ at a pH of 6.8. The mobile phase for the NDA CN products was 25 CH₃CN 75 0.05M PO₄ and a pH of 6.8. The results are shown in Figs. 12 and 13 where a 20 picomole injection of glycine, alanine, and alanyl alanine admixed with OPA ME at pH 9.5, excitation wavelength of 335 nm, and emission wavelength of 430 nm and an R value 0.01 are compared with 4 picomole injection of the same amino acids admixed with NDA CN at pH 9.5, with an excitation wavelength of 420 nm and an emission wavelength of 480 nm and an R value of 0.01. Thus, in terms of detectability and stability, the NDA CN system of the present invention is far superior to the OPA thiol system of the prior art.