# A method and probe for the detection of Actinobacillus Actinomycetemcomitans.

## Abstract
A probe for the detection, in a sample obtained from the mouth of a human patient, of a microbial or human cell associated with a human oral medical disorder, consists essentially of a segment of DNA or RNA capable of selectively hybridizing, under hybridizing conditions to single stranded DNA of the cell.

## Claims
1. A probe for the detection, in a sample obtained from the mouth of a human patient, of a microbial or human cell associated with a human oral medical disorder or with healthy human gingiva, characterised in that said probe consists essentially of a segment of DNA or RNA capable of selectively hybridizing, under hybridizing conditions, to single stranded DNA of said cell.

## Description
This invention relates to the diagnosis of human dental diseases and conditions by detection of microorganisms and cells associated therewith. Dental diseases are quite prevalent in the United States and elsewhere. Perhaps 45 million adults suffer from destructive periodontal disease in the U.S., and perhaps 1 million children suffer from juvenile periodontitis. It can be estimated that 95 of the U.S. population suffers from dental caries at some point in life. There is a considerable need for diagnostic tools to allow a dentist to quickly and effectively detect the presence of these diseases and conditions, to aid and monitor treatment. This is especially true for juvenile periodontitis and dental caries, for which more specialized treatments exist. Recent evidence suggests that different forms of periodontal disease have specific microbial etiologies. One approach in diagnosing these medical disorders is to identify causative microorganisms by culturing and taxonomic identification of bacteria from samples from periodontal pockets. This approach is labour intensive, and samples must be quickly and correctly handled to preserve their viability. Alternatively, assays for enzyme activities thought to be associated with causative organisms may be used. Various assays involving polyclonal or monoclonal antibodies have also been used. For example, Ebersole, U.S. Patent No 4,458,014, discloses a method for the serological identification of certain microorganisms from the oral cavity, in particular, black pigmented According to a first aspect of the present invention, we provide a probe for the detection, in a sample obtained from the mouth of a human patient, of a microbial or human cell associated with a human oral medical disorder or with healthy human gingiva, characterised in that said probe consists essentially of a segment of DNA or RNA capable of selectively hybridizing, under hybridizing conditions, to single stranded DNA of said cell. In a second and alternative aspect of this invention, there is provided a method of detecting, in a sample obtained from the mouth of a human patient, a microbial or human cell associated with a medical disorder or with healthy gingiva, said method being characterised in comprising the steps of denaturing the DNA of said sample contacting said denatured DNA, under hybridizing conditions, with probe RNA or DNA capable of selectively hybridizing to the denatured DNA of said cell and detecting hybrid complexes as an indication of the presence of said cell in said sample. The invention provides, in a third alternative aspect thereof, a composition comprising a segment of DNA or RNA capable of selective hybridizing, under hybridizing conditions, to single stranded DNA of a microbial or human cell, for use in the diagnosis of human oral medical disorders or of healthy human gingiva, said microbial or human cell being a cell associated with such disorder or of healthy human gingiva, respectively, and being present in a sample obtained from the mouth of a human patient. The sample is preferably saliva, a subgingival plaque sample obtained from a periodontal pocket, or a supragingival plaque sample. The invention is particularly useful for the detection of The method described is highly sensitive, permitting the detection of only 10³ cells in a sample, and is also highly specific cross hybridization to DNA of other cells in the sample is less than 0.1 of hybridization to the cell being detected. In addition, detection is rapid, giving results in one to two days. Other features and advantages of the invention will be apparent from the following description of the preferred embodiments thereof. Probe DNA or RNA can be prepared by any of several techniques, including purification and labelling of total cellular DNA of the cell to be detected the whole genome method the isolation of specific sequence probes from a library of the DNA of the cell to be detected or the preparation of specific sequence RNA probes. We have found that the total DNA of the cell to be detected can be labelled and used as a probe to detect oral disorder associated cells. Such probes were found to be capable of detecting the presence of the key diagnostic organisms The first step in the preparation of whole genome probes is the preparation of a pure culture of microbial or human cells from which the whole genome probe is to be prepared the cells are of the same species or type as the cell to be detected. Any desired species can be isolated and purified from oral samples, and then cultured, using standard microbiological methods. In addition, some species of interest are publicly available, e.g., The following were obtained from Dr. Anne Tanner and Ms. JoAnn Dzink of the Forsyth Dental Center, Boston, Massachusetts These microorganisms were cultured according to published procedures Dzink et al., J. Clin. Micro. For gram positive organisms e.g., Following this incubation, 0.8 ml of 25 w v sodium lauryl sulfate and 0.5 ml pronase Sigma were added, and the mixture was incubated for 30 minutes at 70 C. The mixture was then cooled on ice, 2.8 ml of 5 M sodium perchlorate was added, mixed well and incubated on ice for 15 minutes. 15 ml of cold chloroform isoamyl alcohol 24 1 v v was added. After mixing, the mixture was left on ice for 15 minutes. The mixture was centrifuged at 6000 rpm 2800 x g for 10 minutes. The aqueous phase was removed with a wide mouthed Pipette, and centrifuged for 10 minutes at 12,000 rpm 11,200 x g . The supernatant was collected, chilled on ice for 15 minutes, and 2 volumes of 95 ethanol were added. After 30 minutes on ice, the mixture was centrifuged at 8000 rpm 5000 x g for 15 minutes, and the supernatant was discarded. After drying, the pellet was resuspended in 1 ml of TE buffer 10mM Tris HCl, 1mM EDTA, pH 8.0 . 50 microlit s of 10 mg ml RNase was added RNase, obtained from Sigma, dissolved in 10mM Tris pH 7.5, 15mM NaCl, was prepared in advance by heating at 100 C for fifteen minutes, slow cooling, dispensing into aliquots for storage at 20 C . The RNase reaction was carried out at 37 C for one hour. Following RNase treatment, 2 3 extractions were done with phenol chloroform isoamyl alcohol 49 49 1 , and the aqueous phase was collected. 2 1 2 volumes of 100 ethanol were added, with 1 10 volume of 3M sodium acetate pH 5.5 . After 30 minutes on ice, the mixture was centrifuged for 10 minutes at 8000 rpm 5000 x g . The pellet was washed twice with 70 ethanol, dried and resuspended in 1 ml of TE buffer. The concentration of DNA was measured by OD₂₆₀. Human white blood cells were isolated from defibrinated treated blood through Ficoll plaque Pharmacia according to the protocol provided by the manufacturer, and DNA was isolated according to the procedure described in Methods in Enzymology Preparations of total cellular DNA can be labelled by nick translation by any standard method, including the following. The procedure described below incorporates ³²P labelled nucleotides into the nick translated DNA as the label however, other labelled nucleotides are acceptable substrates for DNA polymerase I in the nick translation reaction. Examples of such a label are the biotin labelled analogs of dUTP described in Langer et al. PNAS One to two micrograms of bacterial or white blood cell DNA from the species listed above , prepared as described above, was added to a reaction mix comprising 5 µl 10x buffer 0.5 M Tris HCl, pH7.2 0.1 M MgSO₄, 1mM dithiotreitol, and 500 µg ml bovine serum albumin 4 µl unlabelled deoxynucleotides 10 µM dATP, 100 µM each dCTP, dGTP, dTTP 30 µlα ³²P dATP 2800 Ci mmol and distilled H₂0 to 48 µl. This mixture was chilled to 0 C, and 1µl of DNase Sigma 0.1 ug ml and 1 µl of Alternately, one can prepare nucleic acid probes by constructing cloned DNA libraries representing all the DNA sequences of a given organism. Procedures to prepare DNA libraries and label the nucleic acid sequences are described below. Any individual nucleic acid sequence having homology to the target organism or cell, and lacking homology to other oral microorganisms or cells, may be a suitable probe for the target cell. Many such sequences are presumed to be present in the libraries prepared as described below, or in other libraries that may be similarly prepared. Any such sequence may be identified and isolated from within a DNA library, e.g., through differential hybridization assays such as the one described below. Such sequences may be used singly or in combination, and it is also possible to use the entire library as a probe. Single stranded libraries of DNA from the above listed organisms and cells can be prepared using M13 phage as a vector. The following example, using The DNA inserts at the M13 single stranded DNA molecules carrying bacterial DNA inserts are purified from Bacterial DNA libraries from the above listed organisms and cells can be prepared using pSP64 as a vector. The following example, using In order to verify that the bacterial DNA had inserted into pSP64, 20 clones from each bacterial library were randomly selected. The plasmids were purified and digested with EcoRI and PstI, to detect the presence of inserts by restriction mapping. ³²P labeled RNA probes from each DNA library were prepared by linearizing plasmids containing inserts with EcoRI, and transcribing this DNA according to the following method, provided by Promega Biotec. Transcription took place in a 50 µl reaction consisting of 10 µl 5 x buffer 200mM Tris HCl 30 mM MgCl₂ 10mM spermidine 9 µl distilled H₂0 that had been treated with diethylpyrocarbonate 0.5 µl 1 M dithiotreitol 2 µl RNasin The biotin labelled analogs of UPT described by Langer et al., id may be used as an alternate label. Specific nucleic acid sequences may be selected from the cloned DNA libraries for use as probes. Desirable sequences are those that show strong hybridization to the target cell while showing little or no non specific reactivity to non target cells. Such sequences may be selected by any differential hybridization assay. The below described procedures, in which probe candidates are selected from the DNA libraries of three organisms, and from the RNA library of one organism, are illustrative of procedures that may be used to select probe candidates for any number of organisms. The M13 libraries of One hundred individual Two separate preparations of total cellular DNA were prepared a ³²P labeled RNA from these five clones was prepared as described above. Whole cells from Probes, whether representing single sequences, combinations of sequences, or whole libraries, can be synthesized on a large scale by the recombinant DNA methods described above. Single sequence DNA probes or combinations thereof can instead be synthesized chemically, using conventional methods and or automated equipment, providing the nucleotide sequence has been determined by any of the conventional sequencing methods. Probes, in sufficient amounts for practical diagnostic use, may be prepared and labelled as described herein. Alternatively, either nucleic acid may be labelled after synthesis by attaching the label by chemical or biochemical methods. If ³²P is the label, probes should be used within about two weeks of synthesis, due to the short half life of the isotope. In diagnostic procedures to detect periodontal diseases, plaque samples must be obtained from the patient s mouth. Plaque samples from periodontal pockets may be obtained using any of the standard plaque retrieval methods, using periodontal curettes or other dental instruments. Alternatively, specialized sampling instruments, such as the modified barbed broach described by Newman et al. J. Periodont. In any case, the plaque sample is removed from the mouth and placed into a solution such as Ringer s solution for dispersal of trapped bacteria. Dispersal is done under aseptic conditions, by sonic oscillation for no more than 10 seconds, or by vortexing. The sample can then be diluted and a portion of the sample is used for the hybridization reaction. Plaque samples are first treated with N acetylmuramidase as described above, or other enzymes which promote cell lysis, and then are spotted and fixed onto nitrocellulose filters by applying one to two microlit s of cell suspension on to the filters with a micropipette and air drying for approximately 10 minutes. In diagnostic procedures to detect caries susceptibility, Hybridization to the labelled probes is conducted according to standard procedures e.g., as described in Falkow et al. U.S Pat. No 4,358,535, and Roberts et al. 1984 J. Clin. Micro. DNA RNA hybridizations are carried out as follows After blotting, the nitrocellulose filters are baked in a vacuum for two hours at 80 C, and then prehybridized at 42 C for 4 hours in the following buffer 50 formamide 50 mM Na phosphate pH 6.5 0.8M NaCl 1 mM EDTA 0.1 SDS 0.05 BSA 0.05 Ficoll 0.05 PVP 250 µg ml denatured salmon sperm DNA 500 µg ml yeast RNA poly A at 10 µg ml. The hybridizations are done in fresh buffer as above with the addition of probe, at 42 C with 50 mM NaC1 20mM Na phosphate pH 6.5 1mM EDTA 0.1 SDS. The exposure time of the autoradiography is determined by the amount of radioactive label present. Longer exposure times, while enhancing the signal for the cell to be detected, also increase the amount of signal for non specific background hybridization. Therefore, exposure times should be chosen with this in mind. Times of 2 6 hours are typical. Other embodiments are feasible. The methods described are useful for the detection of any microorganism or other cell present in the human mouth, for the diagnosis and the microorganisms associated with them are chronic gingivitis Cloned DNA libraries of oral organisms and cells may be prepared by alternate methods. Libraries may be prepared using other restriction enzymes, particularly those that cut the target genome to an average size of 100 to 500 nucleotides. Other single stranded DNA phages are potential cloning vectors, including øx174 and Fd. Any of the common dougle stranded DNA vectors e.g. pBR322 may also be used to prepare libraries. RNA probes may also be prepared using pT7 vectors. Other host organisms may be used for DNA libraries, but Different unique sequence molecules may be combined to form probes, the number of such sequences combined dependent upon needed specificity or sensitivity. Probes for different organisms and or serotypes can be combined to obtain diagnostics more useful to the dental practitioner. Hybridization conditions may vary from those specifically described above. In particular, probe nucleic acid may be contacted with sample DNA in any of several different ways, including the sandwich method of Ranki U.S Patent No. 4,486,539. Finally, other detection methods are possible, including incorporated labels e.g. nucleotide analogs attached to biotin or fluorescent labels or labels that are added to the nucleic acid after synthesis e.g. fluorescent labels enzyme activity based labels, etc .