# Therapeutic nucleosides

## Claims
Verbindung der Formel 1

## Description
The present invention relates to a certain 3 azido nudeoside, pharmaceutically acceptable derivatives thereof, and their use in therapy, particularly for the treatment or prophylaxis of certain viral and bacterial infections. It has been discovered that 3 azido 3 deoxythymidine possesses a surprisingly high activity against a broad range of viral and bacterial infections described below which renders the compound useful in medical and veterinary therapy. The compounds according to the invention have been found to be particularly useful in the treatment or prophylaxis of gram negative bacterial infections. Accordingly, the invention also provides the compounds according to the invention for use in the treatment or prophylaxis of gram negative bacterial infections. The compounds according to the invention have been found to have good activity against the following bacteria in particular Thus, there is further provided the compounds according to the invention for use in the treatment or prophylaxis of infections of any of the above mentioned bacteria. Activity of the compounds according to the invention has also been discovered for a broad range of viral infections. There is further provided, therefore, the compounds according to the invention for use in the treatment or prophylaxis of viral infections, other than human retroviral infections. It will be appreciated that the componds according to the invention may also be used in the manufacture of a medicament for the treatment or prophylaxis of any of the above mentioned medical or veterinary indications. By a pharmaceutically acceptable derivative is meant any pharmaceutically acceptable salt, ester, or salt of such ester, or any other compound which, upon administration to the recipient, is capable of providing directly or indirectly 3 azido 2 ,3 dideoxythymidine or an anti retrovirally active metabolite or residue thereof. An example of a non ester compound is the derivative wherein the 5 C and 2 C atoms are linked by an oxygen atom to form an anhydro group. Preferred esters of the compound of formula I include carboxylic acid esters in which the non carbonyl moiety of the ester grouping is selected from straight or branched chain alkyl, alkoxyalkyl e.g. methoxymethyl , aralkyl e.g. benzyl , aryloxyalkyl e.g. phenoxymethyl , aryl e.g. phenyl optionally substituted by halogen, C₁ ₄ alkyl or C₁ ₄ alkoxy sulphonate esters such as alkyl or aralkylsulphonyl e.g. methanesulphonyl and mono , di or tri phosphate esters. Any reference to any of the above compounds also includes a reference to a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof. With regard to the above described esters, unless otherwise specified, any alkyl moiety present advantageously contains 1 to 18 carbon atoms, particularly 1 to 4 carbon atoms. Any aryl moiety present in such esters advantageously comprises a phenyl group. Examples of pharmaceutically acceptable salts of the compounds of formula I and pharmaceutically acceptable derivatives thereof include base salts, eg derived from an appropriate base, such as alkali metal e.g. sodium , alkaline earth metal e.g. magnesium salts, ammonium and NX 4 wherein X is C₁ ₄ alkyl . Specific examples of pharmaceutically acceptable derivatives of the compound of formula I that may be used in accordance with the present invention include the monosodium salt and the following 5 esters monophosphate disodium monophosphate diphosphate triphosphate acetate 3 methyl butyrate octanoate palmitate 3 chloro benzoate benzoate 4 methyl benzoate hydrogen succinate pivalate and mesylate. The compounds according to the invention, also referred to herein as the active ingredient, may be administered for therapy by any suitable route including oral, rectal, nasal, topical including buccal and sublingual , vaginal and parenteral including subcutaneous, intramuscular, intravenous and intradermal . It will be appreciated that the preferred route will vary with the condition and age of the recipient, the nature of the infection and the chosen active ingredient. In general a suitable dose will be in the range of 3.0 to 120 mg per kilogram body weight of the recipient per day, preferably in the range of 6 to 90 mg per kilogram body weight per day and most preferably in the range 15 to 60 mg per kilogram body weight per day. The desired dose is preferably presented as two, three, four, five, six or or more sub doses administered at appropriate intervals throughout the day. These sub doses may be administered in unit dosage forms, for example, containing 10 to 1500 mg, preferably 20 to 1000 mg, and most preferably 50 to 700 mg of active ingredient per unit dosage form. Experiments with 3 azido 3 deoxythymidine suggest that a dose should be administered to achieve peak plasma concentrations of the active compound of from about 1 to about 75 µM, preferably about 2 to 50 µM, most preferably about 3 to about 30 µM. This may be achieved, for example, by the intravenous injection of a 0.1 to 5 solution of the active ingredient, optionally in saline, or orally administered as a bolus containing about 1 to about 100 mg kg of the active ingredient. Desirable blood levels may be maintained by a continuous infusion to provide about 0.01 to about 5.0 mg kg hour or by intermittent infusions containing about 0.4 to about 15 mg kg of the active ingredient. While it is possible for the active ingredient to be administered alone it is preferable to present it as a pharmaceutical formulation. The formulations of the present invention comprise at least one active ingredient, as above defined, together with one or more acceptable carriers thereof and optionally other therapeutic agents. Each carrier must be acceptable in the sense of being compatible with the other ingredients of the formulation and not injurious to the patient. Formulations include those suitable for oral, rectal, nasal, topical including buccal and sublingual , vaginal or parenteral including subcutaneous, intramuscular, intravenous and intradermal administration. The formulations may conveniently be presented in unit dosage form and may be prepared by any methods well known in the art of pharmacy. Such methods include the step of bringing into association the active ingredient with the carrier which constitutes one or more accessory ingredients. In general, the formulations are prepared by uniformly and intimately bringing into association the active ingredient with liquid carriers or finely divided solid carriers or both, and then if necessary shaping the product. Formulations of the present invention suitable for oral administration may be presented as discrete units such as capsules, cachets or tablets each containing a predetermined amount of the active ingredient as a powder or granules as a solution or a suspension in an aqueous or non aqueous liquid or as an oil in water liquid emulsion or a water in oil liquid emulsion. The active ingredient may also be presented as a bolus, electuary or paste. A tablet may be made by compression or moulding, optionally with one or more accessory ingredients. Compressed tablets may be prepared by compressing in a suitable machine the active ingredient in a free flowing form such as a powder or granules, optionally mixed with a binder e.g. povidone, gelatin, hydroxypropylmethyl cellulose , lubricant, inert diluent, preservative, disintegrant e.g. sodium starch glycollate, cross linked povidone, cross linked sodium carboxymethyl cellulose surface active or dispersing agent. Moulded tablets may be made by moulding in a suitable machine a mixture of the powdered compound moistened with an inert liquid diluent. The tablets may optionally be coated or scored and may be formulated so as to provide slow or controlled release of the active ingredient therein using, for example, hydroxypropylmethyl cellulose in varying proportions to provide the desired release profile. Formulations suitable for topical administration in the mouth include lozenges comprising the active ingredient in a flavoured basis, usually sucrose and acacia or tragacanth pastilles comprising the active ingredient in an inert basis such as gelatin and glycerin, or sucrose and acacia and mouthwashes comprising the active ingredient in a suitable liquid carrier. Formulations for rectal administration may be presented as a suppository with a suitable base comprising for example cocoa butter or a salicylate. Formulations suitable for vaginal administration may be presented as pessaries, tampons, creams, gels, pastes, foams or spray formulations containing in addition to the active ingredient such carriers as are known in the art to be appropriate. Formulations suitable for parenteral administration include aqueous and non aqueous isotonic sterile injection solutions which may contain anti oxidants, buffers, bacteriostats and solutes which render the formulation isotonic with the blood of the intended recipient and aqueous and non aqueous sterile suspensions which may include suspending agents and thickening agents. The formulations may be presented in unit dose or multi dose sealed containers, for example, ampoules and vials, and may be stored in a freeze dried lyophilized condition requiring only the addition of the sterile liquid carrier, for example water for injections, immediately prior to use. Extemporaneous injection solutions and suspensions may be prepared from sterile powders, granules and tablets of the kind previously described. Preferred unit dosage formulations are those containing a daily dose or unit, daily sub dose, as herein above recited, or an appropriate fraction thereof, of an active ingredient. The compounds according to the invention may also be presented for use in the form of veterinary formulations, which may be prepared, for example, by methods that are conventional in the art. Examples of such veterinary formulations include those adapted for The administered ingredients may also be used in therapy in conjunction with other medicaments such as 9 2 hydroxy 1 hydroxy methyl ethoxy methyl guanine, 9 2 hydroxyethoxymethyl guanine acyclovir , 2 amino 9 2 hydroxyethoxymethyl purine, interferon, e.g., a interferon, interleukin II, and phosphonoformate, or in conjunction with other immune modulating therapy including bone marrow or lymphoctye transplants or medications such as levamisol or thymosin which would increase lymphocyte numbers and or function as is appropriate. It should be understood that in addition to the ingredients particularly mentioned above the formulations of this invention may include other agents conventional in the art having regard to the type of formulation in question, for example, those suitable for oral administration may include such further agents as sweeteners, thickeners and flavouring agents. The compounds of formula I and their pharmaceutically acceptable derivatives may be prepared in conventional manner, for example as described in the following references, or by methods analogous thereto J.R. Horwitz A compound of formula I may be converted into a pharmaceutically acceptable phosphate or other ester by reaction with respectively a phosphorylating agent, e.g. POCl₃ or an appropriate esterifying agent, e.g. an acid halide or anhydride. The compound of formula I , including esters thereof, may be converted into pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof in conventional manner, e.g. by treatment with an appropriate base. An ester or salt of a compound of formula I may be converted into the parent compound, e.g. by hydrolysis. The following Examples are intended for illustration only. The term active ingredient as as used in the Examples means a compound of formula I or a pharmaceutically acceptable derivative thereof. The following formulations A and B were prepared by wet granulation of the ingredients with a solution of povidone, followed by addition of magnesium stearate and compression. The formulation was prepared by wet granulation of the ingredients below with a solution of povidone followed by the addition of magnesium stearate and compression. A capsule formulation was prepared by admixing the ingredients of Formulation D in Example 1 above and filling into a two part hard gelatin capsule. Formulation B The following controlled release capsule formulation was prepared by extruding ingredients a, b and d using an extruder, followed by spheronisation of the extrudate and drying. the dried pellets were then coated with release controlling membrane d and filled into a two piece, hard gelatin capsule. One fifth of the Witepsol H15 was melted in a steam jacketed pan at 45 C maximum. The active ingredient was sifted through a 200µm sieve and added to the molten base with mixing, using a silverson fitted with a cutting head, until a smooth dispersion was achieved. Maintaining the mixture at 45 C, the remaining Witepsol H15 was added to the suspension and stired to ensure a homogenous mix. The entire suspension was passed through a 250µm stainless steel screen and, with continuous stirring, was allowed to cool to 40 C. At a temperature of 38 C to 40 C, 2.02g of the mixture was filled into suitable, 2 ml plastic moulds. The suppositories were allowed to cool to room temperature. The above ingredients were mixed directly and pessaries prepared by direct compression of the resulting mixture. To a solution of 3 azido 3 deoxy thymidine in pyridine 0 C , octanoyl chloride 1.2 equivalents was added. The reaction was allowed to warm to room temperature. When tlc CHCl₃ MeOH 20 1, on silica gel indicated complete reaction, the solution was poured onto ice water. The aqueous phase was decanted. The resulting oil was chromatographed on silica gel eluted with CHCl₃ MeOH. The title compound was obtained as an oil by evaporation of the solvent from the appropriate fractions. To a solution of 3 azido 3 deoxythymidine 20g in pyridine 50ml at ambient temperature, acetyl chloride 2.1 equivalents was added. The reaction was stirred for two hours and kept at 0 to 5 C for 20 hours. It was poured onto ice water with stirring. The aqueous phase was decanted. The oily product was dissolved in water and extracted with water 5 times , 0.5 N hydrochloric acid, water 2x , and dried over magnesium sulphate. The solution was filtered and evaporated The following compounds were prepared according to the procedure of Example 8 or 9 as appropriate from the appropriate acid halide or anhydride. 3 Azido 3 deoxythymidine 3.0g, 11.2 mMol was mesylated by the addition of methanesulphonyl chloride 2.7 mL to a solution of the starting material in dry pyridine 2 mL . The reaction was allowed to proceed at 5 C for one hour, then poured onto ice water. The precipitate was collected by filtration. The product 3 azido 5 mesylthymidine was reacted with potassium carbonate 0.78 g, 5.6 mMol in DMF 75 mL . The reactants were heated in an 80 C oil bath for six hours, then poured into ice water. The product was extracted from the water with ethyl acetate. The solvent was removed Thymidine 85.4 g 0.353 mol was dissolved in 500 ml dry DMF and added to N 2 chloro 1,1,2 trifluoroethyl diethylamine 100.3 g 0.529 mol prepared according to the method of D.E. Ayer, J. Med. Chem. 2,3 0 Anhydrothymidine 25 g 0.1115 mol and NaN₃ 29 g, 0.446 mol was suspended in a mixture of 250 ml DMF and 38 ml water. The reaction mixture was refluxed for 5 hours at which time it was poured into 1 liter of water. The aqueous solution was extracted with EtOAc 3 x 700 ml . The EtOAc extracts were dried over Na₂SO₄, filtered and the EtOAc was removed Approximately 1g of 3 azido 2 ,3 dideoxythymidine was dissolved in 50mL of distilled water. The pH was adjusted to 12 with 1N NaOH. Approximately half of the solution was freeze dried. The title compound was obtained as a lyophilised powder. Table 1 demonstrates the The standard used was trimethoprim TMP . The medium used was Wellcotest Sensitivity Test Agar plus 7 lysed horse blood. Three calves were infected with 3 Azido 3 deoxythymidine was administered to both mice and rats. The LD₅₀ value was in excess of 750 mg kg in both species.