# Record carrier and apparatus for manufacturing such a record carrier.

## Abstract
When a CLV disc Constant Linear Velocity is used, which is normally played with a speed which is inversely proportional to the playing radius so as to obtain a monotonic reproduction, special effects can be realised by dividing the disc into sectors within which the revolution number is constant and which contain an integral number of fields within an integral number of tracks.

## Claims
1. A record carrier for the storage of video informa tion arranged in fields in substantially spiral tracks, the tracks being arranged on the record carrier in such a way that for a playing mode in which the fields succeed one another monotonically the velocity along the tracks is substantially constant so that in such a playing mode the rate of revolution is substantially inversely proportional to the playing radius, characterized in that the record carrier is radially divided into a plurality of at least two sectors within which an integral number of N fields are recorded on an integral number of T tracks, which sec tors each have a length equal to a multiple of T tracks, T not being a submultiple of N, so that after every T tracks the field synchronizing pulses are radially aligned to enable jumps by T tracks and, consequently, N fields to be made, which record carrier is played with a constant rate of revolution within said sectors for monotonic re production, said sectors being separated by transitional areas in which the rate of revolution is changed gradually.

## Description
The invention relates to a record carrier for the storage of video information arranged in fields in substantially spiral tracks, the tracks being arranged on the record carrier in such a way that for a playing mode in which the fields succeed one another monotonically the velocity along the track is substantially constant, so that in such a playing mode the rate of revolution is substantially inversely proportional to the playing radius. The invention also relates to a playing apparatus for playing such a record carrier and to an apparatus for manufacturing such a record carrier. Such a record carrier, playing apparatus and apparatus for the manufacture of a record carrier are known as the Laservision system Trade Mark . This sytem employs either of two principles the CAV principle Constant Angular Velocity , in which the record carrier is played with a constant revolution in order to obtain a monotonic picture reproduc tion and in which one video picture two fields is re corded in every turn, and the CLV principle Constant Linear Velocity , for which the record carrier is recorded with a constant linear velocity, The first mentioned principle has the advantage that all the field synchronizing pulses are situated in line radially, so that special effects can be obtained by changing track during the field synchronizing pulses. The CLV principle has the advantage that the playing time is substantially longer because the informa tion density is a maximum for each radius, but has the disadvantage that special effects are not possible. It is an object of the invention to provide a re cord carrier, a playing apparatus and an apparatus for the manufacture of such a record carrier employing the CLV principle, which enable special effects to be obtained, though to a limited extent. To this end the record carrier is characterized in that the record carrier is radially divided into a plurality of at least two sectors within which an integral number of N fields are recorded on an integral number of T tracks, which sectors each have a length equal to a multiple of T tracks, T not being a submultiple of N, so that after every T tracks the field synchronizing pulses are radially aligned to enable a jump by T tracks and, consequently, N fields, to be made, which record carrier is played with a constant rate of revolution within said sector for monotonic repro duction, said sectors being separated by transitional areas in which the rate of revolution is changed gradually. The playing apparatus is characterized by means for playing said record carrier with a constant but different rate of revolution in each sector. The apparatus for manufacturing such a record car rier is characterized by means for changing the rate of revolution of the record carrier on which the video signal is recorded sectorwise, in such a way that the record car rier is driven with a constant but different rate of revo lution in each sector, in such a way that a constant number N of fields of the video signal to be recorded is recorded in T tracks, T not being a submultiple of N, such a sector being substantially longer than T tracks. The invention will now be described in more de tail, by way of example, with reference to the accompanying drawings, in which Fig. 1 shows diagrammatically a disc shaped record carrier 1 on which a spiral track 2 is recorded, which track contains optically detectable information in the form of video pictures which each comprise two fields, preceded by a field synchronizing pulse. Each turn contains one video picture 2 fields . Such a disc is played with a constant angular velocity CAV . The advantage of such a disc is that the field synchronizing pulses S are radially aligned, so that a track change is possible at the location of the field synchronizing pulse without the picture field synchronization being disturbed, enabling special effects, such as still picture, slow or fast forward or reverse motion, to be obtained by means of such CAV disc. The disadvantage of such a CAV disc is that the information density is dictated by the angular velocity with which an acceptable picture can be recorded in or reproduced from the inner track, as a result of which the information density decreases towards disc circumference and the total playing time is substantially shorter than the maximum attainable time. Fig. 2 shows diagrammatically a similar record carrier 1 in which the pictures are recorded with a constant linear velocity CLV . The instantaneous linear velocity is always such that the information density is the same as in the innermost track turn. The rate of revolution F thus varies as a function of the radius R . Consequently, the playing time is extended substantially, but the field synchronizing pulses S are not longer aligned, so that it might seem that special effects are no longer possible. For a commercially available disc of the C LV type, the rate of revolution F as a function of the radius R is standardized both for PAL Fig. 3 and for NTSC Fig. 4 and should remain within the specified limits in order to comply with the standard and in order to ensure that the servo control systems in the player can compensate for possible discrepancies in angular velocity during playback and during recording. As is shown in the Figure the linear velocity for PAL lies between 8.4 and 9.5 m sec and for NTSC between 10.1 and 11.4 m sec. If a disc with a non CLV recording is to be compatible with a CLV disc the angular velocity during recording should be between the limits given in Figs. 3 and 4. In accordance with a first aspect of the invention it is possible to obtain in each sector a constant angular velocity CAV within said limits, so that within the sectors special effects are possible, with the proviso that an integral number of N pictures can be accommodated within an integral number of T turns, so that a track chan ge by T tracks is possible without the synchronization being disturbed. For example in the first sector 1 picture is accomodated in 1 turn N 1, T 1 in confor mity with CAV and in another sector, for example, five pictures in four tracks N 5, T 4 . This should be effected in such a way that the angular velocity remains within the limits given in Fig. 3 or 4 and in such a way that the sector within which the angular velocity is constant is as large as possible, care being taken that the values of N and T remain acceptable. The rate of revolution F as a function of the radius R may then vary as is shown diagrammatically in Fig. 5. In the present example there are eight sectors with a constant rate of revolution, the values for F, T and N given in the table of Fig. 6 relating to the PAL standard. The rate of revolution F can be derived from the relationship F . F The transitions between the sectors, for example the transition between r₃ and r₄ fig. 5 do not vary stepwise, because the rate of revolution cannot vary stepwise because of the limited accelerating power of the drive motor. This means that not all the field synchronizing pulses within these transitional areas are radially aligned. However, it is possible to adapt these transi tions in such a way that special effects are also possible within these transitional areas. This is achieved by the use of segments with constant rates of revolution in said transitional areas, which segments are substantially shorter than the sectors, namely in such a way that two specific field synchronizing pulses on opposite sides of the transitions between the segments are situated in line, which enables jumping across the transition between said sectors. By way of illustration Fig. 7 shows a part of the diagram of Fig. 5 to a larger scale. A sector with a constant rate of revolution f₃ is situated between the radii r₄ and r₅ and the radius r₆ is followed by a sector with a constant rate of revolution f₄. The transition r₅ r₆ is divided into a number of segments, for example between r With respect to the possibility for the jumps N₀ the rate of revolution during recording should be such that after a specific number of fields the phase of the field synchronizing pulses has changed by an integral multiple of 2 β. For this purpose various functions for varying the rate of revolution are available, such as a variation with constant acceleration, a variation with two successive constant accelerations, and a variation in accordance with a curve defined by a polynomial or an arc of circle. However, a very simple method is the use of a slow phase locked loop PLL . A clock signal Fc which is in synchronism with the field synchronizing pulses is generated and is stepwise changed to a frequency corresponding to the desired velocity in the following segment Sg₂. The PLL ensures that a signal Ft of gradually varying frequency is generated, which is followed by the drive motor servo control until the rate of revolution F is again in synchronism with the clock signal. If this speed variation is completed before the field synchronizing pulse S₁ to which the jump across the transi tion is made appears, the phase relationship of said pulse S₁ with the field synchronizing pulses in the preceding segment Sg1 is dictated by the jump in frequency of the clock signal. Fig. 9 represents a rate of revolution defined by the clock signal, During the segment Sg₁ the field synchronizing pulses S are radially aligned after every N₁ pulses and during the segment Sg₂ after every N₂ pulses. The field synchronizing pulse S₁ from which the jump N₀ across the transition is made is situated K₁S₁ pulses before the instant of the transition, whereas the pulse S₂ to which the jump is made is situated K₂N₂ pulses after the jump, K₁ and K₂ being integers. The phase variation is then K₁N₁n KN₂ . 2 β and since K₁, N₁, K₂ and N₂ are integers, it is an integral multiple of 2 β or, in other words, the pulses S₁ and S₂ are radially aligned. In order to ensure that the jump commences as late as possible, K₁ may bechosen to be one. However, the integer K₂ should be selected in such a way that the PLL can follow the jump. The lengths of the sectors and segments can be computed and stored in a look up table together with the associated rates of revolution to be used during the manu facture of the master disc, for which purpose said clock signal F Fig. 10 shows an example of an apparatus for recording video signals with a field alignment as described in the foregoing on a master disc. In this Figure a source 2, for example a video reproduction apparatus which reproduces video pictures from a magnetic tape, supplies a video signal to a laser source 3 which can be modulated and which generates a laser beam 4 which is pulse width modulated with the video signal. By means of an objective system 5, which can be controlled in a radial direction relative to the disc 1 and in the focusing direction, this beam is projected on the disc 1 to record the information in a spiral track. The disc is driven by a motor 6 coupled to a tachogenerator 7. The motor 6 is con trolled by a rotation servo control circuit 10, whose input 8 receives speed control information, whose input 9 receives the speed information from the tachogenerator 7, and which may comprise for example a PLL. In order to generate a speed control signal the source 2 applies to clock signal f In order to control the fraction a counter 13 receives the field synchronizing pulses f The slow PLL 12 may be as shown in Fig. 11. The input signal f A record carrier recorded in accordance with the foregoing can be played directly by conventional Laser vision Trade Mark players, because the variations in rate of revolution remain within the limits given in Figs. 3 and 4. However, for special effects a modified player may be employed, for example comprising a look up table with the sector and segment data T N as a function of the radius . However, since radius detection is often difficult and since the jumps across the sector transitions involve a different number of fields, it is advantageous to add information about jumps which are possible from each field to the picture coding associated with said field, which information can be decoded by means of the playing apparatus.