# Liquid liquid extraction columns.

## Abstract
A liquid liquid extraction for use for example, in the solvent extraction of uranium and or plutonium from an aqueous phase, comprises a perforated plate packing in which each plate 10 has flanges 18 associated with its perforations, which flanges 18 project upstream with respect to the disperse phase flow direction arrows 14 so as to define a collecting zone 20 for disperse phase droplets 16 which thereby form a film or layer of the disperse phase component on the upstream face of each plate 10 . In this way, droplet formation at the perforations of each plate 10 is not significantly influenced by variations of the wetting characteristics of the plate with time.

## Claims
1. A liquid liquid extraction column with a perforated plate packing and in which the liquids form countercurrent flowing continuous and disperse phases, characterised in that at least one of the plates is arranged to trap a film or layer of the disperse phase component on that surface which is upstream with respect to the direction of flow of the disperse phase.

## Description
This invention relates to liquid liquid extraction columns in which one liquid forms a continuous phase flowing in one direction along the column and the other liquid forms a disperse phase flowing in the opposite direction. The invention is particularly concerned with the type of column in which a packing comprising a series of spaced apart perforated plates is located within the column. One such column is a pulsed column and a typical application is in the solvent extraction of uranium and or plutonium from an aqueous nitric acid phase using tributyl phosphate in odourless kerosene TBP OK as solvent. A major problem with such columns is the aging of the perforated plate packing over extended periods of operation. Plate aging leads to a drop in column efficiency as a result in variation in the wetting characteristics contact angle by the dispersed phase as a result of particles of grease and dirt for example adsorbing onto the plate surface. The object of the invention is to provide an effective solution to this problem. According to the present invention, in a liquid liquid extraction column with a perforated plate packing, at least one of said plates is arranged to trap a film or layer of the disperse phase component on that surface which is upstream with respect to the direction of flow of the disperse phase. In practice, all of the perforated plates are preferably arranged to trap a disperse phase film or layer on their upstream surfaces. In this manner, the disperse phase droplets approaching the plates are confronted by a disperse phase film or layer with substantially constant wetting characteristics and do not therefore contact the plate surface. Consequently variations in the wetting characteristics of the plate surfaces have little or no influence on droplet size as the disperse phase emerges at the downstream faces of the plates. In one embodiment of the invention the plates may each be in the form of a nozzle plate in which each of the perforations is provided with a nozzle forming portion projecting from one face of the plate. Such nozzle plates are well known in the liquid liquid extraction column art and are normally arranged so that the nozzle is directed in the downstream direction with respect to the disperse phase flow direction see, for example, the text books Liquid Extraction by Robert E Treybal Page 467 and Engineering for Nuclear Fuel Processing by Justin T Long Page 552 . Conventionally the nozzles are intended to reduce the affect of plate wetting by the disperse phase on droplet formation downstream of the plate. In contrast with conventional practice however, the nozzle plates as used in the invention are arranged with the nozzles pointing upstream with respect to the disperse phase flow. When used in this manner, the nozzles serve to define a collecting zone at the upstream face of the plate, which zone collects sufficient disperse phase to create said film or layer. In conventional nozzle plates, the nozzles may each be defined by an inclined annular flange eg. of frusto conical configuration . This type of nozzle plate may be used in columns constructed in accordance with the invention but with the nozzles pointing upstream with respect to the disperse phase flow however, the annular flanges may, alternatively, project substantially perpendicularly to the plate surface. If desired, the nozzles may be so arranged that they include both upstream and downstream portions. If the upstream nozzle portions are substantially perpendicular to the plates, the downstream portions may be inclined or substantially perpendicular. To promote further understanding of the invention, embodiments will now be described by way of example with reference to the accompanying drawings, in which A typical application of the invention is in the use of a pulsed column, with perforated plate packing, for the extraction of uranium and or plutonium solute from an aqueous nitric acid solution with the aid of TBP OK solvent. Figure 1 illustrates diagrammatically part of one plate 10 as used in an extraction column according to the invention. In Figure 1, the aqueous solution forms the continuous phase and its direction of flow is downward as indicated by arrows 12. The TBP OK solvent forms the disperse phase which flows upwards as indicated by arrows 14. Droplets of the disperse phase are depicted by reference numeral 16. The plate 10 comprises a nozzle plate having nozzles defined by annular flanges 18 which, in this embodiment, are inclined with respect to the plane of the plate so as to form nozzles of frusto conical configuration. It will be noted that, in contrast with conventional practice, the nozzles 18 point in the upstream direction with respect to the disperse phase flow direction 14. The nozzles 18 thereby define collecting zones 20 in which the disperse phase can collect so as to create around each nozzle a film or layer 22 of the disperse phase which in effect, isolates the droplets 16 other than those initially forming the film or layer from impinging directly against the surface of the plate 10. In this way, downstream droplet formation occuring in the region of the nozzles is influenced primarily by the film or layer 22 rather than the upstream surface of the plate and can therefore remain consistent despite changes in the wetting characteristics of the plate. In other words, the upstream face of each plate is always wetted by the disperse phase during operation of the column. In the embodiment of Figure 1, the annular flanges 18 have a frusto conical configuration but they may alternatively be substantially perpendicular to the plates 10, ie. so that they have a substantially cylindrical configuration. In both cases, droplet formation at the plate perforations will in effect be governed by the narrow upstream edges of the flanges and because of the presence of the disperse phase film around these edges, there will be no significant tendency for the droplets to adhere to the upstream plate faces beyond the edges. Figure 2 illustrates the use of cylindrical upstream flanges 18. In addition, each plate perforation has a downstream nozzle 24 associated to provide further control over droplet formation at the perforations. In Figure 2, the upstream nozzles 18 and the downstream nozzles 24 are shown cylindrical they may however both be of frusto conical configuration or one set of nozzles may be cylindrical and the other frusto conical. The double nozzle arrangement of Figure 2 enables the column to be used to achieve the advantages of the invention irrespective of the flow direction of the disperse phase. Thus, as shown in Figure 3, the column is shown operational with the aqueous phase dispersed, ie. aqueous phase droplets, flowing in the downward direction arrows 12 and the solvent in the continuous phase flowing upwardly arrows 14 . In this case, the aqueous phase droplets form a film or layer on the upper face of the plates 10, ie. the upstream face with respect to disperse phase flow.