# An antimicrobial composition.

## Abstract
A composition containing 3,3,4,4, tetrachloro tetrahydrothiophene 1,1 dioxide and at least one cyanoacetamide compound of formula I CHEM wherein X is halogen, Y is halogen or hydrogen and R is hydrogen or lower alkyl effectively inhibits the growth of microbes in, for example, water systems in the pulp and paper industries.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. An antimicrobial composition which comprises a 3,3,4,4 tetrachlorotetrahydrothiophene 1,1 dioxide and b at least one cyanoacetamide compound of formulaEMI9.1 wherein X is halogen, Y is halogen or hydrogen and R is hydrogen or lower alkyl. 2. An antimicrobial composition according to Claim 1 wherein b is selected from monochlorocyanoacetamide, monobromocyanoacetamide, dichlorocyanoacetamide, dibromocyanoacetamide and N methyldibromocyanoacetamide. 3. An antimicrobial composition according to Claim 1 or 2 wherein the weight ratio of a b is from 1 10 to 10 1. 4. An antimicrobial composition according to Claim 3 wherein the weight ratio of a1 b is from 5 to 5 5. An antimicrobial composition whichcomprises 3,3,4,4 tetrachlorotetrahydrothiophene dioxide and b dibromocyantacetamide. 6. Use of an antimicrobial composition as claimed in any one of the preceding claims in the treatment of industrial Water systems.

## Description
AN ANTIMICROBIAL COMPOSITION BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION This invention relates to an antimicrobial composition which comprises a cyanoacetamide compound represented by the formula I given hereinbelow and 3,3,4, 4 tetrachlorotetrahydrothiophene 1, 1 dioxide referred to as compound II hereinafter , the synergistic effect exhibited by these two compounds being utilized for the purpose of this invention. Especially, this antimicrobial composition can be effectively used in industrial water systems for making pulp and paper. Hitherto, harmful microorganisms are liable to grow in various water systems such as effluents from paper making process in pulp and paper industries, cooling water recycled in various industries, and furthermore, in production of water paints, emulsion paints, coating color solutions for paper, latex, textile printing pastes, leather, etc. and this causes decrease in productivity and quality of products. Particularly, in water systems in pulp and paper industries, slime is formed due to growth of microorganisms, for example, bacteria, fungi and yeasts and the slime sticks to water channel through which pulp slurry flows, especially rough wall surface with which the slurry contacts, and chests, flow boxes, transporting pipes, and other parts where the pulp slurry flows slowly and stagnates. This slime often comes off to cause breakage of paper at dryer part or slime spots on paper products and further causes various difficulties due to the growth of microorganisms. Such difficulties bring about significant problems where high speed machines are used and lead to significant reduction of productivity and economical loss. Furthermore, also in recycling system of cooling water in metal working fluids, microorganisms grow to deteriorate the cooling efficiency and the emulsifiable property of the metal working fluids and besides emit a bad smell in the working atmosphere. These are resulting in deterioration of working environment and are not desired for public health. Other problems caused by growth of harmful microorganisms are also seen in industrial products such as water paints, coating solutions for paper, high polymer latexes, pulps for paper making, sizing agents, leather, metal working fluids, etc. Hitherto, organometallic compounds, organochlorine compounds, organosulfur compounds, quaternary ammonium salt compounds, etc. have been used as chemicals for controlling or preventing the growth of harmful microorganisms in the above mentioned water systems or industrial products. However, these compounds have toxicity for human being and furthermore cause undesired phenomena such as bad smell or offensive smell and foaming.In addition, the water systems containing these compounds, when discharged to rivers or sea, has bad influence on fishes and shells which causes problems in environmental protection. GIST OF THE INVENTION As a result of the inventors intensive researches on antimicrobial composition in an attempt to remove the above mentioned defects, this invention has been accomplished. That is, this invention relates to an antimicrobial composition which comprises 3, 3,4,4 tetrachlorotetra hydrothiophene 1,1 dioxide and at least one cyanoacetamide compound represented by the following formula I ,EMI2.1 wherein X is a halogen atom, Y is a halogen atom or a hydrogen atom and R is a hydrogen atom or a lower alkyl group . The lower alkyl group has preferably one to three carbon atoms and is exemplified by methyl, ethyl and n propyl. The compound represented by the formula I is an antibacterial and antifungal agent disclosed in JapanesePatent Publication No. 10386 67 and the compound II is an antibacterial and antifungal agent disclosed in U. S.Patent No. 2,957,887. Each of these compounds is not satisfactory as an antimicrobial agent because their antimicrobial effect is limited to some kinds of microorganisms and thus is insufficient and besides the duration of the effect is also insufficient. The antimicrobial composition of this invention exhibits markedly excellent antimicrobial action which has never been expected from repsective components and moreover has a wide variety of applicable microorganisms irrespective of their kind including harmful fungi, bacteria and years. DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION As examples of the compounds represented by the formula I of this invention, mention may be made of monochlorocyanoacetamide, monobromocyanoacetamide, dichlorocyanoacetamide, dibromocyanoacetamide, N methyldibromocyanoacetamide, etc. Two or more of these compounds may be used in combination. The mixing ratio of the compound represented by the formula I and the compound II is generally in the range of from 1 10 to 10 1, preferably in the range of from 1 5 to 5 1 weight ratio . Practically satisfactory effect can be attained with these mixing ratios. The antimicrobial composition of this invention is basically prepared by homogeneously mixing the two components and optionally below mentioned adjuvant and is generally used as aqueous solutions, solutions in solvent, emulsifiable concentrates and flowables, etc. The total active ingredient content of the compound I plus the compound II relative to the whole composition is usually in the range of from 0.01 to 100 , preferably from 1 to 50 in the weight ratio. The solvents used here as the adjuvant include water, alcohol solvents, ketone solvents, ether solvents, hydrocarbon solvents, etc. Among them, alcohols of 1 to 6 carbon atoms such as methyl alcohol, ethyl alcohol, ethylene glycol etc., ketons of 1 to 6 carbon atoms such as acetone, methyl ethyl ketone, etc., ethers of 2 to 6 carbon atoms such as dioxane, tetrahydrofuran, hydrocarbons of 6 to 20 carbon atoms such as benzene, toluene, xylene, etc. are preferable. Stabilizers, surface active agents cationic, anionic or nonionic surface active agent , etc.may be added as the adjuvant to the antimicrobial composition of this invention as long as the effects are not inhibited. The adjuvant may be conventional. The antimicrobial composition of this invention may be used by supporting on various other carriers and there are no limitation in mode of application. Application amount of the antimicrobial composition may vary depending on concentration of microorganisms, but generally 0.01 to 100 ppm in terms of the total concentration of the two active ingredients for water systems in paper and pulp industries and 1 to 500 ppm in terms of the total concentration of the two active ingredients for water paints, sizing agents, leathers, etc. Good antimicrobial effects can be obtained with these amounts. EXAMPLES AND COMPARATIVE EXAMPLES Antimicrobial composition were prepared by mixing the ingredients caccording to the following formulations. Parts used here are all by weight EXAMPLE 1Dibromocyanoacetamide The compound I wherein 10 parts X and Y are bromine, and R is hydrogen The compound II 10 partsDiethylene glycol monomethyl ether 77 partsSorpol 900A Toho Chemical Co. 3 parts EXAMPLE 2Monobromocyanoacetamide 10 partsThe compound 11 10 partsDiethylene glycol monomethyl ether 77 partsSorpol 900A 3 parts EXAMPLE 3Dibromocyanoacetamide 15 partsThe compound II 5 partsDiethylene glycol monomethyl ether 77 partsSorpol 900A 3 parts EXAMPLE 4Monobromocyanoacetamide 15 partsThe compound II 5 partsDiethylene glycol monomethyl ether 77 partsSorpol 900A 3 parts COMPARATIVE EXAMPLE 1 only the compound II as the active ingredient The compound II 20 partsDiethylene glycol monomethyl ether 77 partsSorpol 900A 3 parts COMPARATIVE EXAMPLE 2 only the compound of the formula I as the active ingredient Monobromocyanoacetamide 20 partsDiethylene glycol monomethyl ether 77 partsSorpol 900A 3 parts COMPARATIVE EXAMPLE 3 only the compound of the formula I as the active ingredientl Dibromocyanoacetamide 20 partsDiethylene glycol monomethyl ether 77 partsSorpol 900A 3 parts COMPARATIVE EXAMPLE 4 only the compound II as the active ingredient 2 Bromo 2 nitro 1,3 propanediol 10 partsThe compound Il 10 partsDiethylene glycol monomethyl ether 77 partsSorpol 900A 3 parts TESTS ON EFFECTS Slime controlling effect and antimicrobial effect of the composition prepared in the above EXAMPLES 1 4 and COMPARATIVE EXAMPLES 1 4 were examined by the following test method. TEST EXAMPLE 1 Tests on inhibition of growth of microorganisms and formation of slime in the effluent of paper making process. The antimicrobial compositions prepared in the above EXAMPLES 1 4 and COMPARATIVE EXAMPLES 1 3 were added to white water pit in paper making process of a paper making factory thrice a day for 2 hours each for 7 days so that the concentration of the active ingredient or the two active ingredients in water became 20 ppm and the number of the microorganisms bacteria, fungi, yeasts in the white water was counted. The test method was as follows 10 mi of a white water sample was diluted 10 times with sterilized water, and this sample was put in a Petri dish. A dissolvedWaksman agar culture medium was poured into said dish, the content was mixed and set in a flat plate form. The plate was incubated in a thermostat 32 OC for 2 days and then the microbial colonies formed were subjected to measurement by a colony counter. Furthermore, the number of paper breakages was counted to confirm the antimicrobial effect. Table 1EMI7.1 tb SEP The SEP number SEP of SEP The SEP n Tlber SEP of tb SEP microorganisms SEP in SEP paper SEP breakages tb SEP white SEP water SEP mR SEP I SEP time tb Example SEP 1 SEP 102 SEP 0 SEP I tb Example SEP 1 SEP SEP 102 SEP verbar SEP O tb SEP SE SEP tb Example SEP 2 SEP c SEP 10 SEP 0 tb Example SEP 3 SEP c SEP 10 SEP 1 SEP 0 tb Example SEP 4 SEP 3.6 SEP x SEP 102 tb SEP 1 tb Comparative SEP 5 tb Example SEP 1 SEP 5,3 SEP x SEP 10 SEP 9 tb Comparative SEP 8,6 SEP x SEP 103 tb Example SEP 2 SEP 6 tb Comparative SEP 3.5 SEP x SEP 103 tb Example SEP 3 SEP 5 tb Example SEP 3 SEP 3.5 SEP x SEP 10 SEP 5 tb Comparative tb Example SEP 4 SEP 5.2 SEP x SEP 10 SEP 3 tb No SEP agent SEP I SEP l0 SEP 15 tb It will be recognized from Table 1 that the antimicrobial compositions of this invention EXAMPLES 1 4 had superior inhibitory action against slime forming microorganisms. TEST EXAMPLE 2 Test on inhibition of growth of in coating color solution for paper making. To a starch coating color solution of pH 10.0 were added a bouillon liquid medium and previously putrefied coating color solution and this was stirred.Then, the antimicrobial compositions prepared herein above were added at a concentration of 300 ppm of the active ingredient or the two active ingredients. These samples were put in a thermostat at 32 0C for 5 days and thereafter, the number of surviving microorganisms bacteria, fungi, yeasts in each coating solution was counted. The results are shown in Table 2. Table 2EMI8.1 tb SEP The SEP Thenumber SEP of SEP surviving tb SEP microorganisms SEP my tb SEP 2 tb Example SEP 1 SEP c SEP SEP 10 tb Example SEP 2 SEP 3.0 SEP x SEP I02 tb SEP 12 tb Example SEP 3 SEP c SEP 10 tb Example SEP 4 SEP I SEP 2.6 SEP x SEP 10 tb Comparative SEP 5.6 tb Example SEP 1 SEP l SEP 5.6x SEP 10 tb Comparative tb Example SEP 2 SEP SEP 3.5 SEP x SEP 10 tb Comparative SEP SEP 3 tb Example SEP 3 SEP 3.8 SEP 3.8x tb SEP J tb Comparative tb Example SEP 4 SEP 3.2 SEP x SEP 10 tb No SEP agent SEP SEP 8 0 SEP x SEP 108 tb