# LUMINESCENT METAL CHELATE LABELS AND MEANS FOR DETECTION

## Claims
Chemische Verbindung Gruppe der Formel

## Description
There is a continuous and expanding need for rapid, highly specific methods of detecting and quantifying chemical, biochemical, and biological substances. Of particular value are methods for measuring small quantities of pharmaceuticals, metabolites, microorganisms and other materials of diagnostic value. Examples of such materials include narcotics and poisons, drugs administered for therapeutic purposes, hormones, pathogenic microorganisms and viruses, antibodies, metabolites, enzymes and nucleic acids. The presence of these materials can often be determined by binding methods which exploit the high degree of specificity which characterizes many biochemical and biological systems. Frequently used methods are based on, for example, antigen antibody systems, nucleic acid hybridization techniques, and protein ligand systems. In these methods, the existence of the complex of diagnostic value is typically indicated by the presence or absence of an observable label which has been attached to one or more of the complexing materials. The specific labelling method chosen often dictates the usefulness and versatility of a particular system for detecting a material of interest. A preferred label should be inexpensive, safe, and capable of being attached efficiently to a wide variety of chemical, biochemical, and biological materials without changing the important binding characteristics of those materials. The label should give a highly characteristic signal, and should be rarely, or preferably never found in nature. The label should be stable and detectable in aqueous systems over periods of time ranging up to months. Detection of the label should be rapid, sensitive, and reproducible without the need for expensive, specialized facilities or personnel. Quantification of the label should be relatively independent of variables such as temperature and the composition of the mixture to be assayed. Most advantageous are labels which can be used in homogeneous systems, i.e. systems in which separation of the complexed and uncomplexed labelled material is not necessary. This is possible if the detectability of the label is modulated when the labelled material is incorporated into a specific complex. A wide variety of labels have been developed, each with particular advantages and disadvantages. For example, radioactive labels are quite versatile, and can be detected at very low concentrations. However, they are expensive, hazardous, and their use requires sophisticated equipment and trained personnel. Furthermore, the sensitivity of radioactive labels is limited by the fact that the detectable event can, in its essential nature, occur only once per radioactive atom in the labelled material. Moreover, radioactive labels cannot be used in homogeneous methods. Thus, there is wide interest in non radioactive labels. These include molecules observable by spectrophotometric, spin resonance, and luminescence techniques, as well as enzymes which produce such molecules. Among the useful non radioactive labelling materials are organometallic compounds. Because of the rarity of some metals in biological systems, methods which specifically assay the metal component of the organometallic compounds can be successfully exploited. For example, Cais, U.S. Patent No. 4,205,952 discloses the use of immunochemically active materials labelled with certain organometallic compounds for use in quantitating specific antigens. Any general method of detecting the chosen metals can be used with these labels, including emission, absorption and fluorescence spectrometry, atomic absorption, and neutron activation. These methods often suffer from lack of sensitivity, can seldom be adapted to a homogenous system, and as with atomic absorption, sometimes entail destruction of the sample. Of particular interest are labels which can be made to luminesce through photochemical, chemical, and electrochemical means. Photoluminescence is the process whereby a material is induced to luminesce when it absorbs electromagnetic radiation. Fluorescence and phosphorescence are types of photoluminescence. Chemiluminescent processes entail the creation of the luminescent species by a chemical transfer of energy. Electrochemiluminescence entails the creation of the luminescent species electrochemically. These luminescent systems are of increasing importance. For example, Mandle, U.S. Patent No. 4,372,745 discloses the use of chemiluminescent labels in immunochemical applications. In the disclosed systems, the labels are excited into a luminescent state by chemical means such as by reaction of the label with H₂O₂ and an oxalate. In these systems, H₂O₂ oxidatively converts the oxalate into a high energy derivative, which then excites the label. This system will, in principle, work with any luminescent material that is stable in the oxidizing conditions of the assay and can be excited by the high energy oxalate derivative. Unfortunately, this very versatility is the source of a major limitation of the technique typical biological fluids containing the analyte of interest also contain a large number of potentially luminescent substances that can cause high background levels of luminescence. Another example of the immunochemical use of chemiluminescence which suffers from the same disadvantages is Oberhardt et al., U.S. Patent No. 4,280,815, who disclose the The present invention is concerned with electrochemiluminescent labels. Suitable labels comprise electrochemiluminescent compounds, including organic compounds and organometallic compounds. Electrochemiluminescent methods of determining the presence of labelled materials are preferred over other methods for many reasons. They are highly diagnostic of the presence of a particular label, sensitive, nonhazardous, inexpensive, and can be used in a wide variety of applications. Organic compounds which are suitable electrochemical labels include, for example, rubrene and 9,10 diphenyl anthracene. Many organometallic compounds are suitable electrochemical labels, but of particular use are Ru containing and Os containing compounds. The present invention is concerned with the use of Ru containing and Os containing labels which can be detected by a wide variety of methods. These labels are advantageous for many reasons that will be discussed herein. Ru containing and Os containing organometallic compounds have been discussed in the literature. Cais discloses that any metal element or combination of metal elements, including noble metals from group VIII such as Ru, would be suitable components of organometallic labels detectable by atomic absorption methods. Cais, column 11, line 20 . However, ruthenium is not a preferred metal in Cais, osmium is not specifically mentioned, no data is presented on the efficiency of using Ru or Os in any of the methods disclosed, and the preferred method of detection, atomic absorption, entails destruction of the sample. Weber, U.S. Patent No. 4,293,310, discloses the use of Ru containing and Os containing complexes as electrochemical labels for analytes in immunoassays. The disclosed complexes are linked to amino groups on the analytes through a thiourea linkage. Weber also suggests the possibility of forming carboxylate esters between the labels and hydroxy groups on other analytes. According to Weber, the presence of the labelled materials can be determined with an apparatus and method which comprises a quencher and an electrochemical flow cell with light means. The photoelectrochemically active label upon photoexcitation transfers an electron to a quencher molecule the oxidized molecule is subsequently reduced with an electron from an electrode of the flow cell which is held at suitable potential. This electron is measured as photocurrent. The amount of free labelled analyte in the system is determined by the photocurrent signal. Note that this method is the reverse of electrochemiluminescent detection of luminescent materials. In subsequent reports, Weber et al. 1983 , These studies were performed with a simple Ru containing compound. No studies were reported in Weber or Weber et al. regarding the limits of detection of complex substances labelled with Ru containing labels, or on whether the thiourea linkage between the labelled material and label is stable under conditions of the assay. The particular labels with which the present invention is concerned are electrochemiluminescent. They can often be excited to a luminescent state without their oxidation or reduction by exposing the compounds to electromagnetic radiation or to a chemical energy source such as that created by typical oxalate H₂O₂ systems. In addition, luminescence of these compounds can be induced by electrochemical methods which do entail their oxidation and reduction. Extensive work has been reported on methods for detecting Ru 2,2 bipyridine ₃² using photoluminescent, chemiluminescent, and electrochemiluminescent means Rubinstein and Bard 1981 , Electrogenerated Chemiluminescence. 37. Aqueous Ecl Systems based on Ru 2,2 bipyridine ₃² and Oxalate or Organic Acids , The oxidative reduction method can be performed in water, and produces an intense, efficient, stable luminescence, which is relatively insensitive to the presence of oxygen or impurities. This luminescence from Ru bpy ₃² depends upon the presence of oxalate or other organic acids such as pyruvate, lactate, malonate, tartrate and citrate, and means of oxidatively producing Ru bpy ₃³ species. This oxidation can be performed chemically by such strong oxidants as PbO₂ or a Ce IV salt. It can be performed electrochemically by a sufficiently positive potential applied either continuously or intermittently. Suitable electrodes for the electrochemical oxidation of Ru bpy ₃² are, for example, Pt, pyrolytic graphite, and glassy carbon. Although the oxalate or other organic acid is consumed during chemiluminescence, a strong, constant chemiluminescence for many hours can be achieved by the presence of an excess of the consumed material, or by a continuous supply of the consumed material to the reaction chamber. The reductive oxidation method can be performed in partially aqueous solutions containing an organic cosolvent such as, for example, acetonitrile. This luminescence depends upon the presence of peroxydisulfate and a means of reductively producing Ru bpy ₃¹ species. The reduction can be performed chemically by strong reductants such as, for example, magnesium or other metals. It can be performed electrochemically by a sufficiently negative potential applied either continuously or intermittently. A suitable electrode for the electrochemical reduction of Ru bpy ₃² is, for example, a polished glassy carbon electrode. As with the oxidative reduction method, continuous, intense luminescence can be achieved for many hours by inclusion of excess reagents, or by continuous addition of the consumed reagents to the reaction mixture. The Ru bpy ₃ These three methods of producing luminescent Ru containing compounds have in common the repetitive oxidation reduction or reduction oxidation of the Ru containing compound. The luminescence of solutions containing these compounds is therefore highly dependent on the electric potential of the applied energy source, and is therefore highly diagnostic of the presence of a Ru containing compound. Mandle cites Curtis et al. 1977 , Chemiluminescence A New Method for Detecting Fluorescent Compounds Separated By Thin Layer Chromatography Neither Mandle nor Curtis recognized the exceptional utility of ruthenium and osmium complexes in chemiluminescent applications or the utility of electrochemilumiscent systems. Sprintschnik, G. et al. 1977 , Preparation and Photochemical Reactivity of Surfactant Ruthenium II Complexes in Monolayer Assemblies and at Water Solid Interfaces , It has been discovered and is disclosed herein, that a wide variety of analytes of interest and chemical moieties that bind to analytes of interest may be conveniently attached to Ru containing or Os containing labels through amide or amine linkages. The labelled materials may then be determined by electrochemiluminescent means. It is also disclosed herein that electrochemilumiscent labels, including Ru containing and Os containing labels and organic molecules such as rubrene and 9,10 diphenyl anthracene, are particularly versatile and advantageous. The great advantages of the use of these novel labelled materials, and of the methods of detecting them, are further discussed hereinbelow. According to the present invention, there is provided a chemical moiety having the formula The present invention provides compounds particularly suitable as intermediates for attaching a luminescent ruthenium or osmium containing label to amino groups of chemical, biochemical and biological substances. These intermediates are thus particularly suitable for creating chemical moieties according to the present invention. The intermediates are the mono and di N hydroxysuccinimide esters of ruthenium or osmium bis 2,2 bipyridine 2,2 bipyridine 4,4 dicarboxylic acid and their salts and ruthenium or osmium bis 2,2 bipyridine 4,4 di chloromethyl 2,2 bipyridine . These compounds may be synthesized by means known in the art. The present invention provides methods for determining the presence of the novel chemical moieties. The present invention also provides methods of determining the presence of a chemical moiety having the formula as defined above. The method comprises This invention further provides for the use of ruthenium containing and osmium containing labels in binding methods for determining the presence of substances of interest. These methods may be used to determine labelled moieties of interest, to employ labelled moieties to determine analytes of interest, or to use labelled analogues of analytes of interest to determine analytes of interest in competitive binding assays. These binding methods may be homogeneous or heterogeneous binding methods. Still further, the present invention provides systems for determining the presence of the ruthenium containing or osmium containing chemical moieties of this invention. These systems comprise a means for inducing the chemical moiety electrochemiluminesce and a means for detecting emitted luminescence. The present invention also provides systems for employing the ruthenium containing or osmium containing chemical moieties in binding methods for the determination of analytes of interest. The present invention also provides for use of electrochemiluminescent labels in binding methods for determining the presence of substances of interest. These methods can be used to determine labelled moieties of interest, to employ labelled moieties to determine analytes of interest, or to use labelled analogues of analytes of interest to determine analytes of interest in competitive binding assays. These binding methods can be homogeneous or heterogeneous binding methods. A specific embodiment of the invention provides for compositions which contain two or more different chemical moieties. Each of the moieties may be chemical species which can be induced to emit electrochemiluminesce of a different wavelength. In another embodiment of the invention the chemical moieties may be chemical species each of which is induced to electrochemiluminesce by exposure to energy of a different value or from a different source. A different substance or analyte of interest may then be specifically attached to each of the different chemical moieties. By using these compositions and methods it is possible to determine two or more different substances or analytes of interest that may be present in the sample under examination. According to the present invention, there is provided a chemical moiety having the formula This chemical moiety must have at least one polydentate ligand of M. If the moiety has greater than one polydentate ligand, the polydentate ligands may be the same or not all the same. Polydentate ligands include aromatic and aliphatic ligands. Suitable aromatic polydentate ligands include aromatic heterocyclic ligands. Preferred aromatic heterocyclic ligands are nitrogen containing, such as, for example, bipyridyl, bipyrazyl, terpyridyl, and phenanthrolyl. Suitable polydentate ligands may be unsubstituted, or substituted by any of a large number of substituents known to the art. Suitable substituents include for example, alkyl, substituted alkyl, aryl, substituted aryl, aralkyl, substitinted aralkyl, carboxylate, carboxaldehyde, carboxamide, cyano, amino, hydroxy, imino, hydroxycarbonyl, aminocarbonyl, amidine, guanidinium, ureide, sulfur containing groups, phosphorus containing groups, and the carboxylate ester of N hydroxysuccinimide. This chemical moiety may have one or more monodentate ligands, a wide variety of which are known to the art. Suitable monodentate ligands include, for example, carbon monoxide, cyanides, isocyanides, halides, and aliphatic, aromatic and heterocyclic phosphines, amines, stibines, and arsines. Particularly preferred embodiments of this chemical moiety comprise bis 2,2 bipyridyl ruthenium II and tris 2,2 bipyridyl ruthenium II . It is within the scope of this invention for one or more of the ligands of M to be attached to additional chemical labels, such as, for example, radioactive isotopes, fluorescent components, or additional luminescent ruthenium or osmium containing centers. It is also within the scope of this invention for the labelled substance B to be labelled by greater than one, or many, electrochemilumescent centers. Suitable substances B include many biological substances, for example, whole cells, viruses, subcellular particles, proteins, lipoproteins, glycoproteins, polypeptides, nucleic acids, polysaccharides, lipopolysaccharides, cellular metabolites, hormones, pharmacological agents, tranquilizers, barbituates, alkaloids, steroids, vitamins, amino acids and sugars. Whole cells may be animal, plant, or bacterial, and may be viable or dead. Examples include plant pathogens such as fungi and nematodes. The term subcellular particles is meant to encompass, for example, subcellular organelles, membrane particles as from disrupted cells, fragments of cell walls, ribosomes, multienzyme complexes, and other particles which can be derived from living organisms. Nucleic acids include, for example, chromosomal DNA, plasmid DNA, viral DNA, and recombinant DNA derived from multiple sources. Nucleic acids also include RNA s, for example messenger RNA s, ribosomal RNA s and transfer RNA s. Polypeptides include, for example, enzymes, transport proteins, receptor proteins, and structural proteins such as viral coat proteins. Preferred polypeptides are enzymes and antibodies. Particularly preferred polypeptides are monoclonal antibodies. Hormones include, for example, insulin and T4 thyroid hormone. Pharmacological agents include, for example, cardiac glycosides. It is of course within the scope of this invention to include synthetic substances which chemically resemble biological materials, such as synthetic polypeptides, synthetic nucleic acids, and synthetic membranes, vesicles and liposomes. The foregoing is not intended to be a comprehensive list of the biological substances suitable for use in this invention, but is meant only to illustrate the wide scope of the invention. It is within the scope of this invention to include labelled nonbiological substances, including polymeric materials. These substances may be in the form of soluble polymeric molecules, or any of the large variety of known macroscopic forms such as, for example, beads, or containers such as test tubes, bottles, assay wells or the like. Biological and nonbiological substances B are covalently bound to a ligand of M through an amide or amine linkage. In the case of the amide linkage, the linkage may be oriented so that the material B is bonded directly either to the carbonyl or to the nitrogen of the amide linkage. These chemical moieties may be ionized. If so, it is understood in the art that many different counterions will serve to neutralize the charge of preparations of the chemical moiety. Suitable cations include, for example, H , NH₄ , guanidinium, Ag , Li , Na , K , Mg² , Mn² , and Cd² . Suitable anions include, for example, halides, OH , carbonate, SO₄² , hexafluorophosphate and tetrafluoroborate. The present invention also provides compounds particularly suitable as intermediates for attaching a luminescent ruthenium containing or osmium containing label to amino groups of chemical, biochemical and biological substances. These intermediates are thus particularly suitable for synthesizing chemical moieties according to the present invention. The inventive intermediates are the mono and di N hydroxysuccinimide esters of ruthenium or osmium bis 2,2 bipyridine 2 The chemical structures of these intermediates are as follows. The mono N hydroxysuccinimide ester of ruthenium or osmium bis 2,2 bipyridine 2,2 bipyridine 4,4 dicarboxylic acid includes wherein M is Ru or Os, n is the integer 1, 2, or 3, and salts and stereoisomers thereof. The di N hydroxysuccinimide esters of ruthenium or osmium bis 2,2 bipyridine 2,2 bipyridine 4,4 dicarboxylic acid includes wherein M is Ru or Os, n is the integer 1, 2, or 3, and salts and stereoisomers thereof. Ruthenium or osmium bis 2,2 bipyridine 4,4 di chloromethyl 2,2 bipyridine includes wherein M is Ru or Os, n is the integer 1, 2, or 3, and salts and stereoisomers thereof. These compounds may be synthesized by means known to the art. A preferred method of synthesizing the ruthenium containing N hydroxysuccinimide esters is to first react ruthenium dichlorobis 2,2 bipyridine with 2,2 bipyridine 4, 4 dicarboxylic acid in a hot aqueous methanol solution of sodium bicarbonate. After acidification, an aqueous solution of NaPF₆ is added to the solution of carboxylated ruthenium compound. The isolated hexafluorophosphate salt of the ruthenium complex is then esterified by reaction with N hydroxy succinimide in the presence of dicyclohexylcarbodiimide in dimethylformamide. Of course, many variations on the structure of the N hydroxysuccinimide component are possible without substantially altering the usefulness of the inventive intermediates. These intermediates may be ionized. If so, it is understood in the art that many different counterions will serve to neutralize the charge of preparations of the intermediate. Suitable cations include for example H , NH₄ , guanidinium, Ag , Li , Na , K , Mg² , Mn² , and Cd² . Suitable anions include, for example, halides, carbonate, SO₄² , hexafluorophosphate, and tetrafluoroborate. These intermediates are useful for labelling substances containing a free amino group capable of attacking the carboxylate ester, and thereby displacing N hydroxysuccinimide, or of attacking the chloromethyl group, and thereby displacing chloride. Use of these intermediates to label analytes of interest is preferred over the isothiocyanates of the prior art e.g. Weber, U.S. Patent No. 4,293,310 . Isothiocyanates are generally prepared by reaction of a primary amine with carbon disulfide or thiophosgene, each of which is volatile and highly toxic. Carbon disulfide is also an acute fire and explosion hazard. The required precursor primary aromatic amines are more difficult to obtain than the precursor aromatic carboxylic acids used in the present invention. Also, the intermediates of the present invention are less reactive and more easily stored and handled than the isothiocyanate derivatives. The present invention provides methods for determining the presence of chemical moieties according to this invention. The metal containing compositions are detected by electrochemiluminescence methods. Ru bpy ₃² may be determined at very low concentrations using luminescence techniques. Using the oxidative reduction method, Ege et al. November 1984 Analytical Chemistry, Vol. 58 No. 13, at 2413 17 were able to detect Ru bpy ₃² at concentrations of 5x10 ⁸ M. In these experiments, sodium oxalate was 1mM in phosphate buffer pH 5.0, and the potential was pulsed at 1.0 to 1.4 volts versus a saturated sodium chloride reference electrode for 5 to 10 second intervals. These workers found the reductive oxidation method to be even more sensitive. Using 18mM Na₂S₂O₈ and 0.1 M tetra n butyl ammonium tetrafluoroborate in CH₃CN H₂O 1 1 v v , Ru bpy ₃² concentrations as low as 10 ¹³ M could be detected. Further refinements of the techniques promise even greater sensitivity. These techniques also provide sensitive and accurate measurements of labelled substances, as demonstrated more fully in the Examples set out hereinbelow. Our experience with Ru bpy ₃² labelled substances indicates the advantages of using ruthenium containing and osmium containing compounds as chemical labels. They are stable for long periods and may be attached efficiently to a wide variety of chemical, biochemical and biological materials. The labels are safe and relatively inexpensive. They give a highly characteristic signal and do not occur in nature. Measurements based on luminescence of the labels are sensitive, fast, reproducible and utilize simple instrumentation. There is very little interference with detection based on luminescence of these labels by such components as phosphate buffered saline, Tween a surfactant , liver tissue extract or serum. Luminescence based measurement of these labels does not destroy the sample or labelled materials and may be performed repetitively. The signal is generated repeatedly by each molecule of label, thereby enhancing the sensitivity with which these labels may be detected. The presence of labelled materials may be determined qualitatively or quantitatively depending on the needs of the particular application. Note the word determined , as used in this patent application, refers to either qualitative or quantitative determinations of the labelled material. Accordingly, this invention provides a method of determining the presence of a chemical moiety having the formula The method comprises In the chemical moieties useful in these methods, biological and nonbiological substances B may be incorporated into the moieties by coordination directly to M or by attachment to a ligand of M. Attachment may be through covalent bonding, or by electrostatic or hydrogen bonding. Many diverse means of effecting covalent bonding of substances B to ligands of M are available. The attaching linkage may be, for example, an amide or amine bond, an ester or thioester linkage, an ether or thioether linkage or any of many other means known to the art. The type of linkage will be determined by the substituents of the ligand and the suitable chemical groups available for binding with the ligand on the substance that is to be labelled. Suitable substances B include, for example, whole cells, subcellular particles, nucleic acids, polysaccharides, proteins, glycoproteins, lipoproteins, lipopolysaccharides, polypeptides, cellular metabolites, hormones, pharmacological agents, tranquilizers, barbituates, alkaloids, steroids, vitamins, amino acids, sugars, and non biological polymers. In a preferred embodiment of the invention the attaching linkage is an amide or amine bond. The amide or amine bond is formed between the substituent on the ligand and a free amino group on the substance that is to be labelled. These methods include a method of determining the chemical moiety by formation of a specific complex with a complementary material. Of particular interest are antibody antigen pairs of materials. This binding method may be used to determine the presence of labelled antigens, such as, for example, digoxin or digitoxin in complex mixtures such as blood, urine, or synthetic reaction mixtures by first exposing the mixture to immobilized antibodies specific for the antigen of interest, and then measuring the amount of labelled material bound to the immobilized antibodies. The phrase inducing to electrochemiluminesce refers to creating an excited state of said moiety which luminesces at wavelengths between 200 nanometers and 900 nanometers at ambient temperatures. The present invention envisions osmium containing moieties as well as ruthenium containing moieties and encompasses the wide variety of luminescent moieties which can be made by varying the chemical structure of the ligands. Each of these variations in the metal and the ligands can change the precise value of the energy input required to create the luminescent excited state. Similarly, the wavelength of the emitted luminescence will be dependent upon the nature and environment of the ruthenium containing or osmium containing material. Generally electrochemiluminescent emission will occur with the emitted luminescence being between about 200 nanometers and about 900 nanometers in wavelength. The potential at which the reduction or oxidation of the chemical moiety will occur depends upon its exact chemical structure as well as factors such as the pH of the solution and the nature of the electrode used. Generally, it is well known in the art how to determine the optimal potential and emission wavelength of an electrochemiluminescent system. It should be clear that there are many methods for quantifying the amount of luminescent species present. The rate of energy input into the system can provide a measure of the luminescent species. Suitable measurements include, for example, measurements of electric current when the luminescent species is generated electrochemically. In addition, of course, the luminescent species can be detected by measuring the emitted luminescence. All of these measurements can be made either as continuous, rate based measurements, or as cumulative methods which accumulate the signal over a long period of time. An example of rate based measurements is the use of photomultiplier tubes, photodiodes or phototransistors to produce electric currents proportional in magnitude to the incident light intensity. Examples of cumulative methods are the integration of rate based data, and the use of photographic film to provide cumulative data directly. All of these luminescence based methods entail repeated luminescence by the ruthenium containing compound. The repetitive nature of the detectable event distinguishes these labels from radioactive isotopes or bound chemiluminescent molecules such as luminol. The latter labels produce a detectable event only once per molecule or atom of label, thereby limiting their detectability. This invention further provides for the use of ruthenium containing and osmium containing labels in binding methods for determining the presence of analytes of interest. Many such binding methods are known to the art. These methods often exploit the great specificity with which biochemical and biological agents bind together. Examples are methods based on nucleic acid hybridization techniques, antibody antigen based techniques, and enzyme ligand based techniques. These methods can employ labelled moieties to determine analytes of interest or to use labelled analogues of analytes of interest to determine analytes of interest in competitive binding assays. The analyte of interest and the chemical moiety can be any pair of substances which are capable of binding together in a specific manner. Such substances include for example, whole cells, subcellular particles, nucleic acids, polysaccharides, proteins, glycoproteins, lipoproteins, lipopolysaccharides, polypeptides, cellular metabolites, hormones, pharmacological agents, tranquilizers, barbiturates, alkaloids, steroids, vitamins, amino acids, sugars, and non biological polymers. Of particular interest are antibody antigen pairs. For example, this method encompasses the use of labelled antibodies to determine the presence of cell surface antigens, or to label particular cells for detection by cell sorting methods. Antigens immobilized by, for example, attachment to immobilized, unlabelled antibodies can be detected by labelled antibodies in a method commonly known as a sandwich method. In competitive binding assays, the analyte of interest and the labelled analogue of the analyte can be any substances capable of participating in formation of a specific complex with a complementary material, such as for example, whole cells, subcellular particles, nucleic acids, polysaccharides, proteins, glycoproteins, lipoproteins, lipopolysaccharides, polypeptides, cellular metabolites, hormones, pharmacological agents, tranquilizers, barbituates, alkaloids, steroids, vitamins, amino acids, sugars and non biological polymers. Of particular interest are antibody antigen based methods. These methods are analogous to the well known radioimmunoassay, wherein an analyte of interest is detected when it displaces a radioactive analogue of the analyte from an antibody. The many variations on radioimmunoassay known to the art can, in principle, be used to advantage by employing moieties labelled according to the present invention in place of radioactively labelled compounds. It is further provided by the present invention to use labelled chemical moieties in either heterogeneous or homogeneous binding methods. In heterogeneous binding methods, the bound labelled substance must be physically separated from the unbound labelled substance before measurement of the presence of label. This is frequently accomplished in antibody antigen systems by immobilizing one component, the antibody for example, by attachment to an insoluble matrix such as a filter or to the surface of beads or reaction vessels such as test tubes. The antigen containing solution is poured through the filter or into the reaction vessel, and then washed away from the filter or sides of the reaction vessel. Only antigen specifically bound to antibody will remain to be determined. In homogeneous methods, by contrast, the bound and unbound labelled material are present in the same reaction mixture when the presence of label is measured. This is possible when binding modifies the properties of the signal detectable from the label. There are many ways that luminescent labels can be used in homogeneous systems. For example, if a luminescence quencher were properly positioned on an antibody, binding of a labelled antigen could result in suppression of the luminescence of the label by the luminescence quencher on the antibody. Many homogeneous methods for luminescent labels are known to the art, and some of them are reviewed in Boguslaski and Li 1982 , Homogeneous Immunoassays, A particularly unique and useful class of homogeneous binding assays is provided by the present invention. As described hereinbefore, these labels can be measured electrochemically by means of exposing a solution of the la belled substance of interest to an electrode. Any labelled substance which is present in the solution but cannot gain access to the surface of the electrode will not be detected. This can occur, for example, if the labelled substance is bound directly or indirectly to the surface of the reaction vessel into which the electrode is placed, or if the label is imbedded deep into the interior of the specific complex, such as within an antigen antibody complex, or if the electrode itself were coated with a layer through which labelled material could pass but complexed labelled material could not pass. In addition, it should be possible to coat the surface of an electrode with antibodies, so that only labelled antigen bound to the immobilized antibodies can obtain access to the electrode and thereby be determined. This particular homogenous method may be most effective if the required electrode potential is applied in short pulses. It is within the scope of the present invention to use a combination of means for determining the presence of labelled compounds. For example, it may be desirable to measure the total amount of labelled substance by a means which does not distinguish between bound and unbound labelled substance and to determine the amount of bound labelled substance by a means which does distinguish between bound and unbound labelled substance, such as electrochemiluminescence, for example. Such a combination of methods could be performed on the same sample, and thus provide a richer source of information about the sample than could any method when used individually. It is also within the scope of this invention to determine the presence of two or more differently labelled compounds within the same reaction mixture. This is possible either if the labels emit luminescence of differing wavelengths or if the labels can be induced to emit luminescence by exposure to energy of different values or sources. The present invention further provides systems for determining the presence of the ruthenium containing or osmium containing chemical moieties. The systems comprise reagent mixtures comprising the chemical moiety, a means for inducing the chemical moiety to emit luminescence and a means for detecting emitted luminescence. The present invention further provides systems for employing ruthenium containing or osmium containing labelled chemical moieties for the determination of analytes of interest. The systems of the present invention are envisioned to be useful in the rapid, efficient, and versatile performance of the diverse methods disclosed and suggested by the instant invention disclosure. The analyte of interest can be any substance which is capable of binding to the electrochemiluminescent moiety, such as the binding of an antigen to a antibody labelled with an electrochemiluminescent moiety. The method involves contacting the analyte with the chemical moiety under suitable conditions so as to form a reagent mixture. The chemical moiety is then induced to repeatedly emit luminescence by directly exposing the moiety to electrochemical energy. The presence of the analyte is determined by detecting the luminescence emitted by the chemical moiety bound to the analyte. This invention also concerns compositions which comprise the ruthenium containing or osmium containing chemical moieties of this invention and one or more different chemical moieties each of which can be induced to emit luminescence of a different distinct wavelength. These compositions are useful in methods and systems of detecting two or more different substances or analytes of interest contained in a mixture of the same and other substances. The other different chemical moiety or moieties may be any suitable chemical moiety such as inorganic, organic and organometallic compounds which can be induced to emit luminescence, e.g. rubrene or 9,10 diphenylanthracene. These moieties may be such moieties that are induced to emit luminescence when exposed to energy of different values or sources than the energy used to induce luminescence from the ruthenium containing or osmium containing chemical moieties. In a specific embodiment of the invention, each other chemical moiety emits luminescence of a different distinct wavelength when induced to emit luminescence, by energy of the same source and value that induces the ruthenium containing or osmium containing chemical moiety to emit luminescence. Methods for determining these chemical moieties comprise forming a reagent mixture under suitable conditions containing the chemical moieties and then inducing the chemical moieties to emit luminescence by exposing the reagent mixture to chemical energy or electrochemical energy. The presence of each of the moieties is determined by detecting the luminescence of different wavelengths emitted by each of the moieties. The invention also concerns a method of determining the presence of one or more analytes of interest which bind selectively to the different chemical moieties present in the same mixture. The method comprises contacting the analytes with the chemical moieties under suitable conditions so as to form a reagent mixture. The moieties are induced to emit luminescence by exposing the reagent mixture to chemical energy or electrochemical energy and the emitted luminescence of different wavelengths is detected to determine the presence of each of the analytes of interest. These methods in which the presence of two or more chemical moieties is determined in a mixture are applicable to all instances described previously for determining the ruthenium containing and osmium containing luminescent labels. This embodiment, however, allows for the determination of two or more different substances present in the same sample simultaneously. In another embodiment of the invention the different chemical moieties are induced to emit luminescence by exposure to energy of different values or different sources. The methods of determining these different chemical moieties are essentially the same as those for determining the chemical moieties which emit different wavelengths of luminescence, except for the induction step. These chemical moieties are induced to emit luminescence by energy of different values or sources. The sample containing the moieties is exposed to each of the different energy values or sources at a different time and the luminescence emitted by the specific moiety is detected, thus determining the presence of the moiety. This method is also useful for determining the presence of analytes of interest which bind selectively to the different chemical moieties present in the sample. Another embodiment of the invention involves methods and systems of determining one or more different electrochemiluminescent moieties present in the same sample. These chemical moieties contain different compounds which emit luminescence of different wavelengths when exposed to an electrochemical energy source or can each be induced to emit luminescence by exposure to distinct electrochemical energy sources. These different electrochemiluminescent moieties may be specifically attached to different substances or analytes of interest. Determination of the different moieties involves the same procedures as discussed previously. This invention is illustrated in the examples which follow. The examples are set forth to aid in an understanding of the invention. Sodium bicarbonate 0.40 g , ruthenium dichlorobis 2,2 bipyridine 0.40 g , and 2,2 bipyridine 4,4 dicarboxylic acid 0.30 g were stirred in refluxing methanol 20 ml water 5 ml for 9 hours. The resulting solution was cooled in an ice bath, treated with 5 drops concentrated H₂SO₄, and allowed to stand at ice temperature for 1.5 hours. A precipitate formed, which was separated by filtration and washed with MeOH 8 ml . The combined filtrate and wash solution were treated with a solution of sodium hexafluorophosphate 5.0 g in water 25 ml . The resulting solution was cooled in an ice bath for 3 hours, and the resulting precipitate of red purple crystals was collected by filtration 0.40 g . Dicyclohexylcarbodiimide DCC, 0.046 g and N hydroxysuccinimide 0.034 g were dissolved in DMF 2 ml with stirring, and cooled in an ice bath. A solution of ruthenium bis 2,2 bipyridine 2,2 bipyridine 4,4 dicarboxylic acid 0.101 g, prepared as in Example I dissolved in DMF 1 ml was added, and the mixture was stirred 5 hours at ice bath temperature. A precipitate formed and was separated by centrifugation. The supernatant containing the activated ruthenium complex was retained for labelling of substrates. The DMF solution of activated ruthenium complex prepared in Example II 1 ml was added to a stirred solution of BSA in aqueous Physiologic Buffered Saline PBS, 5 ml 25 mg ml BSA . The mixture was stirred overnight, and precipitate was removed by centrifugation. The supernatant containing ruthenium labelled BSA was analyzed by two methods. Ruthenium labelled BSA solution was dialyzed with PBS solution. As a control, the unbound, activated ruthenium complex prepared in Example II was also dialyzed with PBS solution. After 8 hours, the control showed no fluorescent species within the dialysis tube. The ruthenium labelled BSA solution, however, showed strong fluorescence, indicating that the ruthenium complex was bound to the high molecular weight BSA. Ruthenium labelled BSA solution was placed in an Amicon microconcentrator and centrifuged at 8000 rpm. A small fraction of red orange solution remained above the filter, and this colored fraction was diluted with wash PBS solution and centrifuged. This procedure was repeated several times. After the fourth wash, colorless solution passed through the filter, while highly red orange colored material remained above the filter. This result indicates that the ruthenium complex was bound to the high molecular weight BSA. The DMF solution of activated ruthenium complex prepared in Example II was added to a stirred solution of affinity purified human IgG in aqueous buffer. The ruthenium label led IgG solution fluoresced brightly after extensive dialysis, indicating that the ruthenium complex was bound to the high molecular weight affinity purified human IgG. The DMF solution of activated ruthenium complex prepared in Example II 0.1 ml was stirred with rabbit serum containing anti The procedure of Example V was repeated using normal mouse serum i.e., lacking anti The DMF solution of activated ruthenium complex prepared in Example II was added to a stirred solution of affinity purified goat anti rabbit IgG. After reaction, the mixture was dialyzed against buffer. Material remaining in the dialysis tube fluoresced under UV light. The ruthenium labelled IgG was tested for reactivity toward A control experiment tested for non specific binding of ruthenium labelled antibody. For comparison purposes, a rhodamine isothiocyanate conjugated goat anti rabbit IgG antiserum at a protein concentration equivalent to the ruthenium conjugated antibody was reacted with ECL measurements were carried out in a one compartment cell 30 ml with an optically flat bottom. The working electrode was glassy carbon, the counter electrode was platinum gauze, and the pseudo reference electrode was a silver wire. Light intensity measurements were made by applying a potential of 2.0V versus the Ag wire , detecting the emitted light with a photomultiplier tube Hamamatsu 928 , and integrating the resulting signal for 2 s with a Bascom Turner Recorder. Acetonitrile water 9 ml, 50 50 v v , tetrabutylammonium tetrafluoroborate 329 mg , and diammonium peroxydisulfate 42 mg were mixed in the ECL cell, and background light intensity was recorded. Ruthenium labelled BSA solution prepared in Example III was diluted in acetonitrile water 50 50 v v and the diluted BSA solution 1 ml was added to the ECL cell. The resulting solution was deaerated by bubbling solent saturated nitrogen. Table I summarizes results for different concentrations of ruthenium labelled BSA. 4 The rabbit and sheep antibodies were received as 2 mg ml solutions in PBS. These solutions were dialyzed overnight against sodium bicarbonate 500 ml, 50 mM, pH9 . The antibody 2 mg was then diluted with sodium bicarbonate solution to give a final volume of 2 ml. This solution 1 ml was added to sodium carbonate solution 1 ml, 50 mM to adjust the pH to 10. The solution of activated complex in dioxane water 100 µl was added to the solution of antibody and allowed to react at 4 C for 16 hours. After this, BSA 5 mg was added to the reaction, and the solution was immediately dialyzed against carbonate buffer 500 ml, 25 mM, pH9 . The dialysis buffer was changed three times at 24 hour intervals. A formalinized suspension of Excitation and emission scans of the fluorescein labeled goat anti mouse IgG antibody solution showed an excitation peak at 491 nm and an emission peak at 519 nm. These wavelengths were used for the fluorescence measurements of the fluorescein labeled cells. Excitation and emission scans of the ruthenium labeled rabbit sheep anti mouse IgG antibody solution showed an excitation peak at 455 nm and an emission peak at 623 nm. These wavelengths were used for the fluorescence measurements of the ruthenium labeled cells. Cell suspensions which had been incubated with PBS instead of primary 10C8 antibody and fluorescent conjugate served as negative controls and were used to blank the fluorometer. The fluorescence of cell suspensions which had been incubated with both primary 10C8 antibody and fluorescent conjugate was defined as 100, and all other fluorescence measurements were made in fluorescence units relative to these internal standards. Table I summarizes the results, which demonstrate that the ruthenium labeled anti mouse IgG conjugate fluoresces and exhibits specific immunological reactivity in the presence of primary 10C8 antibody.