# PROCESS FOR PRODUCING D ALPHA AMINO ACIDS

## Claims
Verfahren zur Herstellung von D α Aminosäuren gemäß der allgemeinen Formel

## Description
This invention concerns a process for producing D α amino acids with an extreme advantage by using the genus As one of the methods for producing D α amino acids, there has been known a process of chemically hydrolyzing a corresponding 5 substituted hydantoin into DL α amino acids and then optically resolving the mixture into a D α amino acid. However, the step for the optical resolution is particularly troublesome and the yield is not so high in this process. Further, there has been known a process for producing a D α amino acids by subjecting a 5 substituted hydantoin to the action of a culture broth, cells, treated cells or enzyme of microorganisms to prepare an optically active N carbamoyl D α amino acid, which is then converted into D α amino acid by the treatment with a solution of sodium nitrite. However, the reaction step and the purification step are troublesome also in this process. Furthermore, it has also been known a process for directly obtaining a D α amino acid by subjecting a 5 substituted hydantoin to the action of a culture broth, cells or treated cells of microorganisms, for example, the genera Thus the object of the invention is to find a process with a better efficiency than that of the known production processes. According to the invention this object has been solved by the process of the claim. It has been found that the genus Thus the invention concerns a process for producing D α amino acids represented by the general formula where R represents an alkyl group, substituted alkyl group, phenyl group or substituted phenyl group ,by subjecting 5 substituted hydantoins represented by the general formula where R represents the same meanings as in the formula 2 , to the action of the culture broth, cells or treated cells of the genus Hansenula, thereby being transformed into D α amino acids. Microorganisms employed in the present invention are, for example The strains recognized to have a capability of transforming the hydantoin into the amino acid, as described above, were tested by further isolating and purifying the thus formed amino acid and measuring the optical rotation. The genus The 5 substituted hydantoins usable in this invention are those in which the hydrogen atom at 5 position on the hydantoin is substituted with an alkyl group, phenyl group or substituted derivative thereof. The substituent groups attached to the alkyl or phenyl group can include, for example, halogen atom, alkylmercapto group, hydroxy group, alkoxy group, amino group, indolyl group and alkoxycarbonyl group. 5 substituted hydantoins usable in this invention and D amino acids corresponding to the respective hydantoins can be represented specifically as shown in Table 1. The genus The culture mediums usable for the cultivation of the microorganisms include those ordinary culture mediums usually containing digestable carbon source and nitrogen source, as well as nutrients of inorganic salts required for the growth of the microorganisms. The cultivation may be carried out under aerobic conditions while appropriately controlling the pH from 4 to 9 and temperature from 25 to 45 C. In the enzymatic reaction, the usable concentration of substrate ranges from 0.1 to 10 by weight. The temperature optimum to the enzyme in the microorganisms employed having a capability of converting into D α amino acids is used as the reaction temperature and it usually ranges from 25 to 60 C. A pH value optimum to the enzyme in the microorganisms having the capability of transforming into D α amino acids is used as the pH during reaction and it usually within a range of pH 5 to 9. Particularly preferably, the temperature is from 20 to 50 C and pH 6 8.5. D α amino acids prepared by asymmetrically transforming 5 substituted hydantoins as described above can be separated and converted into D α amino acids by utilizing known methods such as concentration, neutralization and ion exchange . Since D α amino acids can easily be prepared from 5 substituted hydantoins by using the genus The invention will now be described more specifically referring to the following examples. A culture medium of a composition shown in Table 2 was filled in an amount of 20 ml into a 250 ml Erlenmeyer flask, sterilized at 120 C for 15 minutes and mixed with DL 5 isopropyl hydantoin separately sterilized. Then, A culture medium of a composition shown in Table 2 was filled in an amount of 20 ml into a 250 ml Erlenmeyer flask, sterilized at 120 C for 15 minutes and mixed with DL 5 isopropyl hydantoin separately sterilized. Then, microorganisms shown in Table 4, which had been cultured in a yeast YM culture medium at 28 c for 40 hours, were inoculated by a spoonful of platinum spatula at 28 c for 24 hours. The cells were centrifugated from the culture liquid and applied with the same procedures as in Example 1 to collect the cells. The cells were added to a 0.1M potassium phosphate buffer pH 7.5 containing 5 g liter of 5 phenylhydantoin up to the amount of 30 g liter, 5 ml of which were reacted at 36 c for 20 hours. After the reaction, the separation and purification were made in the same manner as in Example 1 and the results of the analysis are shown in Table 4.