# Exhaust silencer for internal combustion engines

## Abstract
The present invention relates to a type of exhaust silencers for internal combustion engines, especially for those used on motor vehicles and tractors. The front pipe, the bunch of the core tubes and the tail pipe have successive inner flow channels of equal section areas. The bunch of the core tubes is integrally connected to the bigger end of the trumpet pipe. The walls of the core tubes are punched with flanged holes forming converging passages. Flow dividing plates are provided in the tail pipe. The exhaust flow divides into smaller substreams on passing through the front pipe and the core tubes, whereby raising the ratio of expansion, leading to obvious decreases of noise level and exhaust backpressure, and a reduction of loss of engine output, accordingly. The noise level of a vehicle can be reduced to 80 83 dB A , while the oil consumption can be reduced by 6 8.8 .

## Claims
1. A type of exhaut silencers for internal combustion engines, especially for those used on motor vehicles and tractors, having a cylinderical shell which is closed by a front lid and a rear lid at its both ends, the inner space of the said cylidenical shell is divided by one or more spacers into chambers with different volumes, on each of the said front and rear lids an opening is made for the fitting of a front pipe and a tail pipe respectively, the said front pipe has a diameter equal to that of the exhaust pipe at the engines the geometric centres of the said openings are aligned with the axis of the cylinderical shell a group of core tubes which extend parallel ly to the said axis of the shell and pass through groups of openings correspondingly formed on every spacers, the walls of the said core tubes are punched with holes communicating the inner channels of the said tubes to the said chambers charac terized in that the said front pipe is connected to the smaller end of a trumpet pipe, the bigger end of which is fit to the said opening on the front lid, that the said commiunicating holes on the walls of the core tubes are formed with flanges, that each of the core tubes extends through every spacers via correspondling openings uniformly arranged along circles having aligned centers and a common diameter on each spacers, and the front and rear ends of each core tubes deflect toward the section centres of the bigger end of the trumpet pipe and the front end of the tail pipe at inclining angles of 3 10 , res pectively, with their deflected end portions of approximately sectorial sections being assembled together, that the front end of the core tube bunch defined above is inserted directly into the bigger end of the trumpet pipe so as to form a integral connection therewith, that flow dividing plates are provided in the tail pipe, the outlet edge of which has approximately a sinewave profile.

## Description
The present invention relates to an exhaust silencer for internal conbustion engines, especially for those used on motor vehicles and tractors. At present, exhaust silencers used on motor vehicles and tractors work generally on the principle of consuming the energy of exhaust flows and equalizing fluctuations of the exhaust pressure. Therefor, silencers are commonly designed into such structures that make exhaust flows pass through a series of channels having reducing and expanding sections repeatedly, with frequent flow direction changs, or divide the exhaust flow into smaller streams flowing along rough surfaces. Such structures did reduce noises to some extent. However, the backpressure of the exhaust tends to increase due to the blocked exhaust flow. The faster the engine runs, the greater the exhaust flow resistance will be, consequently the more loss of power output, and more fuel consumption. When an engine runs at its maximum speed, the loss of its power output due to the above causes can be as high as 5 10 . To provide a silencer of good performance with little influence on engine output is widely concerned. The US PS No.4203503 and US PS No. 4209076 disclosed a type of exhaust silencer, in which exhaust flows first enter a resonant cavity which absorbs sound energy, then enter an expansion cavity to expend the sound energy further, finally go out into the atomsphere. But in a silencer of such a type, exhaust flows are still blocked, exhaust flow resis tance remains relatively large, thus the noise depressing effect and the saving of engine power output can not reach the desired level. The object of the present invention is to provide for motor vehicles and tractors an exhaust silencer of a low backpressure type which seducesd noises on a wide band and keeps fuel consumption relatively low. According to the present invention, an exhaust silencer for motor vehicles and tractors has a cylinderical shell which is sealed at its both ends by a front lid and arear lid, and the inside of which is divided by spacers into several separate chambers of different volumes, on each of the said lids an opening is formed for fixing a trumpet like diverging pipe and tail pipe respectively, the geometric central axises of the said openings bing identical with the axis of the cylinderical shell. The said trumpet pipe is either connected to a front pipe or integrally made there with. Inside the cylinderical shell there are a group of core tubes, the walls of which are punched with flanged holes forming converging passages for communicating the inner channels of the tubes with the said chambers. Each of the core tubes extends from a front chamber to a rear chamber through the spacers via a series of corresponding holes, which are equally arranged along cireles having aligned centers and a common diameter on every spacers. In the front and rear chambers the core tubes deflect gradually inwardly toward section centers of the bigger end of the trumpet pipe and the front end of the tail pipe at inclining angles of 3 5 and 5 10 respectively. The ends of the deflected portions of each core tubes are adapted to have sectorial cross sections and are assembled together, so as to be inserted directly into the bigger end of the trumpet to form an integral counection therewith in the front chamber, and to be connected with the front end of the tail pipe at the rear lid plane in the rear chamber. The front pipe, the bunch of the core tubes, and tail pipe have successive inner flow channels of substantially equal cross section areas. The outlet edge of the tail pipe has substantially a sinewave profile, inside the tail pipe there are disposed some flow dividing plates. The exhaust gases discharged from the engine exhaust pipe pass through the front pipe of the silencer, then flow into the core tubes via the corresponding end openings of sectorial cross sections thereof by dividing the main flow into several smaller streams. By the principle of resistance silencing, when exhaust flows reach the flanged holes on every core tubes, sound waves are reflected backwardly to sound sourses, thus depress the noise. Dividing the main flow into thin ner substreams enables the ratio of expension to rise greatly, and via the openings of the flanged holes on the core tubes small streams of ex hausts flow into and from the said chambers in which the core tubes ex tend, causing the pressure of the exhaust flows to change greatly, too. The above said two desirable facts contribute not only to increase considerably the degree of noise reduction but to decrease the smoke density of the exhausts as well. The latter benifit is obtained because that the soots in the exhaust flows deposit down to the chambers on their way through the punched portions of the core tubes as a result of expansion and centrifugalization of the flows at the openings of the flanged holes. In order to depress noises of middle and low frequencies, resonant chambers with different volumes are provided, while a certain volume of sound absorbing materials is provided in the last chamber to fill the space around the punched portions of the core tubes extending therethrough, so as to depress the high frequency component of noises effectively. The punches on the walls of the core tubes have flanges which form passages converging outwardly to the chambers and which help to keep the flow resistance of the inner walls of the core tubes relatively low. The flow dividing plates disposed in the tail pipe are used mainly to prevent resonance that might otherwise happen when exhaust flows are accumulating. The outlet of the tail pipe has an edge of substantially sinewane profile, which helps to discharge the exhausts into the atomsphere evenly. The present invention is advantageous in that Some performance data of the silencers according to the present invention are listed in the Table I, in which is shown a comparison of noise levels and fuel consumptions between the silencers made according to the present invention and silencers of conventional types, testing on Jie. Fang CA 10B trucks, load capacity 4 ton. Now, a prefered embodiment of the present invention will be described in detail by refering to the following drawings Refer now to Fig. 1, in which a silencer embodying the present invention is shown, the said silencer has 4 chambers and 8 core tubes, and wherein The rear end of the front pipe 1 of a diameter D₁ is welded to the smaller end of the trumpet pipe 3. The ends of eight core tubes 5 of a diameter d are assembledtogether and inserted directly into the bigger end of the trumpet pipe 3 and welded therewith, with the channel in the trumpet pipe 3 being divided into eight sub channels of sectorial sections by the correspondingly shaped ends of the eight core tubes 5, accordingly. From the welded point the eight core tubes 5 depart from each other and extend radially forwardly to the front spacer 4, each at an inclining angle of 3 5 with respect to the longitudinal axis of the cylinderical shell, then the eight tubes 5 deflect to the direction paralel to the longitudinal axis of the cylinderical shell and extend further through the openings correspondingly formed on each of the front spacer 4, middle spacer 6, and rear spacer 8. From the rear spacer 8 the eight core tubes deflect and extend toward the lonitudinal axis of the shell at an inclining angle of 5 10 , and finally meet with one another at the entrance of the tail pipe 11, with their end of sectorial sections being assembled together and welded to the corresponding edges of the flow dividing plates 12 disposed in the tail pipe 11. The flow dividing plates 12 consist of eight flat plates, the dimentions of each plates are so determined that when they extend longitudinally in the tail pipe 11 with their front end edges welded to the ends of the core tubes 5, their rear end edges lie in a predetermined spiral surface, and their longitudinal edges keep apart from the inner wall of the tail pipe 11 by a small gap. The tail pipe 11 has a diameter D₂ the outlet edge of the development of the pipe 11 has substantially a sinewave profile. The walls of each the core tubes 5 are punched with holes, the ratio of the punched area to the wall surface area of each tube is 30 50 . Said holes have flanges forming passages converging raially outwardly to the chambers inside the cylinderical shell, and in the said chamrbers groups of the said holes on each core tube 5 are axially staggered to those on the adjecent core tubes, all of the said core tubes 5 extend through the openings uniformly arranged along circles having aligned centers and a common diameter on each spacers 4,6,8 . The front pipe 1, the bunch of the eight core tubes 5, and the tail pipe 11 are so dimentioned that the cross section areas of their inner channels have substantially the following relation According to the best mode of the present invention, it is advantageous to have D₁ D₂ 60 mm. and d 22mm. The assembly described above is disposed in the cylinderical shell 7, the front end and rear end thereof are closed by the front lid 2 and the rear lid 10, respectively. The rear chamber, i.e. the one between the rear spaccer 8 and the rear lid 10 is filled with sound absorbing materials 9, such as glass wool. The noise level of a truck having a load capacity of 4 5 ton is decreased to 80 83 dB A when the truck is equiped with the silencer of the type according to the present invenion. In addition, because the silensor of the present invention assures a relatively low exhaust back pressure, the loss of power output is reduced, hence the lower oil consump tions see Table 1 . Further, the smoke density and pollutant emissions are also reduced. The features disclosed in the foregoing description, in the following claims and or in the accompanying drawings may, both separately and in any combination thereof, be material for realizing the invention in diverse forms thereof.