# Tissue derived tumor growth inhibitors, methods of preparation and uses thereof

## Abstract
An acidified, ethanol extract derived from human tissue which comprises a plurality of acidic polypeptides, each of which has a molecular weight less than about 20,000 daltons and each of which has the property of inhibiting the growth of human tumor cells and of an established mink lung cell line CCL64 while stimulating the growth of normal human foreskin fibroblasts is disclosed. The inhibitory activity against human tumor cell growth is not destroyed upon increasing the temperature of the acidified, ethanol extract to about 100 C for about 3 minutes or adding acetic acid until the acidified, ethanol extract is up to about 1.0 molar in acetic acid. Further, the activity of the acidified, ethanol extract is enhanced when the acidified, ethanol extract is prepared at about 4 C rather than about at 23 C. An acidified, ethanol extract derived from human umbilical cord which has been treated to re moved substantially all blood, all extracellular soluble components and substantially all intracellular soluble components which comprises at least one acidic polypeptide having an apparent molecular weight less than about 30,000 daltons, compositions of matter designated tissue derived growth inhibitor 1 TGI 1 , tissue derived growth inhibitor TGI , and tissue derived growth inhibitor 2 TGI 2 and a heterogeneous population of polypeptides designated CM I, CM II, CM III and CM IV, are also disclosed as are methods of preparation, pharmaceutical compositions which include, and uses of the foregoing.

## Claims
1. An acidified, ethanol extract derived from human tissue which comprises a plurality of acidic polypeptides, each of which has a molecular weight less than about 20,000 daltons and each of which has the property of inhibiting the growth of human tumor cells and of an established mink lung cell line CCL64 while stimulating the growth of normal human foreskin fibroblasts, the inhibitory activity against human tumor cell growth not being destroyed upon increasing the temperature of the acidified, ethanol extract to about 100 C for about 3 minutes or upon adding acetic acid until the acidified, ethanol extract is up to about 1.0 molar in acetic acid and the inhibitory activity being enhanced when the acidified, ethanol extract is prepared at about 4 C rather than at about 23 C.

## Description
This application is a continuation in part of U.S. Serial No. 725,003, filed April 19, 1985, the contents of which are hereby incorporated by reference into the present application. Bichel Bichel, Nature Substances having tumor growth inhibitory activity have been described. Holley, et al., Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA Iwata, et al., J. Cellular Biochem. Suppl. On April 20, 1984, a patent application was filed with the United States Patent and Trademark Office under U.S. Serial No. 602,520, entitled Substantially Purified Tumor Growth Inhibitory Factor TIF on which one of us, Kenenth K. Iwata, is named as coinventor. This application concerns the preliminary identification of a not well defined substance or substances present in, and derived from, human tumor cells propagated in culture. This substance or substances resembles the tumor inhibitory activity previously reported. Todaro, et al., in Todaro Todaro, G.J. in The invention concerns an acidified, ethanol extract derived from human tissue which comprises a plurality of acidic polypeptides, each of which has a molecular weight less than about 20,000 daltons and each of which has the property of inhibiting the growth of human tumor cells and of an established mink lung cell line CCL64 while stimulating the growth of normal human foreskin fibroblasts. The inhibitory activity against human tumor cell growth is not destroyed upon increasing the temperature of the acidified, ethanol extract to about 100 C for about 3 minutes or upon adding acetic acid and the inhibitory activity is enhanced when the acidified, ethanol extract is prepared at about 4 C rather than about 23 C. This invention also concerns an acidified, ethanol extract derived from human umbilical cord which has been treated to remove substantially all blood, all extracellular soluble components and substantially all intracellular soluble components which comprises at least one acidic polypeptide having an apparent molecular weight less than about 30,000 daltons under nonreducing conditions and having the property of inhibiting the growth of human tumor cells and of an established mink lung cell line CCL64 while stimulating the growth of normal human foreskin fibroblasts, the inhibitory activity against human tumor cell growth not being destroyed upon increasing the temperature of the acidified, ethanol extract to about 100 C for about 3 minutes or upon adding acetic acid until the acidified, ethanol extract is up to about 1.0 molar in acetic acid. The invention also concerns a method for preparing an acidified, ethanol extract from human tissue, e.g., human umbilical cord or human placenta, the acidified, ethanol extract comprising a plurality of acidic polypeptides, each of which has a molecular weight less than about 20,000 daltons and each of which has the property of inhibiting the growth of human tumor cells and of an established mink lung cell line CCL64 while stimulating the growth of normal human foreskin fibroblasts. The method comprises, under suitable conditions, treating the tissue to produce lysed cells and solubilized proteins derived from the cells, recovering the solubilized proteins, separately recovering from the solubilized proteins polypeptides having an apparent molecular weight less than about 20,000 daltons, assaying the polypeptides so recovered to identify those which either inhibit the growth of human tumor cells or inhibit the growth of an established mink lung cell line CCL64 or enhance the growth of normal human foreskin fibroblasts and recovering an acidified, ethanol extract containing the polypeptides so identified. This invention also concerns a method for preparing an acidified, ethanol extract from human umbilical cord, the acidified, ethanol extract comprising tissue deriv ed growth inhibitor TGI which has an apparent molecular weight of about 20,000 30,000 daltons and which has the property of inhibiting the growth of human tumor cells and of an established mink lung cell line CCL64 while stimulating the growth of normal human foreskin fibroblasts. The method comprises under suitable conditions, removing veins and arteries from the umbilical cord tissue and washing the tissue to remove all traces of blood, treating the tissue to produce lysed cells and removing the soluble proteins derived from the cells, solubilizing and isolating the remaining proteins from the lysed cells by acidified ethanol extraction to produced solubilized proteins, separately recovering from the solubilized proteins TGI having an apparent molecular weight of about 20,000 30,000 daltons, assaying the separately recovered TGI to identify the activity which inhibits the growth of human tumor cells, inhibits the growth of an established mink lung cell line CCL64 and enhances the growth of normal human foreskin fibroblasts, and recovering the acidified, ethanol extract containing the TGI so identified. The invention also provides a composition of matter designated tissue derived growth inhibitor 1 TGI 1 which comprises at least one polypeptide having the property of inhibiting the growth of human tumor cells and of an established mink lung cell line CCL64 but not the growth of normal human foreskin fibroblasts and having an apparent molecular weight in the range from about 5,000 16,000 daltons, the composition a being recoverable as a defined activity on high performance liquid chromatography of an acidified, ethanol extract with a linear gradient of acetonitrile containing 0.05 trifluroacetic acid at about 26 34 acetonitrile and being recoverable as a defined activity on high performance liquid chromatography of an acidified, ethanol extract with a linear gradient of 2 propanol containing 0.05 trifluoroacetic acid at about 17 23 2 propanol, and b being separable when eluted on high performance liquid chromatography with a linear gradient of 2 propanol containing 0.05 trifluroacetic acid into two activities, one of which elutes at about 26 2 propanol and prefentially inhibits the growth of human tumor cells but not the growth of an established mink lung cell line CCL64 and the other of which elutes at about 23 2 propanol and preferentially inhibits the growth of an established mink lung cell line CCL64 but not human tumor cells. The invention additionally provides a method for preparing TGI 1. The invention also provides a composition of matter designated tissue derived growth inhibitor TGI which comprises at least one polypeptide having the property of inhibiting the growth of human tumor cells and of an established mink lung cell line CCL64 but not the growth of normal human foreskin fibroblasts and having an apparent molecular weight in the range from about 20,000 30,000 daltons, the composition being recoverable as a defined activity on high performance liquid chromatography of an acidified, ethanol extract with a linear gradient of acetonitrile containing 0.05 trifluroacetic acid at about 28 34 acetonitrile and being resolved as a single peak of defined activity from a cation exchange resin when eluted by a linear NaCl gradient at about 0.6 0.7 M NaCl. The invention further provides a composition of matter designated tissue derived growth inhibitor 2 TGI 2 which comprises at least one polypeptide having the property of inhibiting the growth of human tumor cells and of an established mink lung cell line CCL64 but not the growth of normal human foreskin fibroblasts and having an apparent molecular weight in the range from about 5,000 16,000 daltons, the composition being recoverable as a defined activity on high performance liquid chromatography of an acidified, ethanol extract with a linear gradient of acetonitrile containing 0.05 trifluroacetic acid at about 35 39 acetonitrile and being recoverable as a defined a ctivity on high perfor mance liquid chromatography of an acidified, ethanol extract with a linear gradient of 2 propanol containing 0.05 trifluroacetic acid at about 23 27 2 propanol. The invention additionally provides a method for preparing TGI 2. Furthermore, the invention provides a heterogeneous population of polypeptides designated CM I, CM II, CM III and CM IV, each of which has the property of substantially inhibiting the growth of human tumor cells, all of which except CM I have the property of substantially inhibiting the growth of an established mink lung cell line CCL64 and none of which inhibit the growth of normal human foreskin fibroblasts, the population being recoverable by cation exchange chromatography of the acidified, ethanol extract. The invention additionally provides a method for preparing the hetergeneous population of polypeptides designated CM I, CM II, CM III and CM IV. Pharmaceutical compositions which comprise effective amounts of the extract, TGI 1, TGI, TGI 2 or the heterogeneous population of polypeptides designated CM I, CM II, CM III and CM IV and a suitable pharmaceutical carrier are provided, as are methods for inhibiting the growth of human tumor cells by contacting the cells with such compositions. The compositions may also be used to treat burns or in wound healing. The invention also concerns methods for detecting the presence of tumors which comprise quantitatively determining the amount of TGI 1, TGI or TGI 2, or of the heterogeneous population of polypeptides designated CM I, CM II, CM III or CM IV present in a sample from a subject and comparing the amount so determined with the amount present in a sample from a normal subject, the presence of a significantly different amount indicating the presence of a tumor. Further, the invention concerns methods for detecting the presence of tumors which comprise separately quantitatively determining the amount of TGI 1, TGI or TGI 2, or of the heterogeneous population of polypeptides designed CM 1, CM II, CM III or CM IV and the amount of transforming growth factor alpha TGF alpha present in a sample from a subject, determining the ratio of the amount of TGI 1, TGI or TGI 2, or of the heterogenous population present in the sample to the amount of TGF alpha present, determining the comparable ratio for a sample from a normal subject and comparing the ratio for the subject to the ratio for the normal subject, a significant variation in the ratio indicating the presence of a tumor. Finally, the invention concerns a method for typing tumors which comprises determining for a sample from a subject with a tumor the presence of one or more of TGI 1, TGI, TGI 2, CM I, CM II, CM III and CM IV in the sample, the presence or absence of a specific combination thereof, or the presence of specific amounts or relative amounts thereof, being indicative of a specific tumor type. Elution pattern of gel filtration chromatography at 23 C of crude acidified, ethanol extract from human umbilical cords. Two grams of acidified, ethanol extract in 150 ml of 1.0 M acetic acid was applied to a 14 x 100 cm column Amicon 86012 containing Bio Gel P10 and eluted at a flow rate of 7 ml min. One liter fractions were collected on a SuperRac LKB 2211 equipped with a type C collection rack LKB . One ml aliquots of each fraction 1 liter fraction were transferred to 12 x 75 mm sterile snap top tubes Falcon 2058 . TGI activity was determined as described in Materials and Methods. Inhibition of A549 human lung carcinoma cells is shown by open triangles and mink lung CCL64 cells by open circles. Absorbance at 280 nm was detected by a Uvicord S LKB 2138 with a full scale absorbance range of 1.0 AUFS and a single channel chart recorder LKB 2210 with a chart speed of 1 mm min. Elution pattern of gel filtration chromatography at 4 C of crude acidified, ethanol extract from human umbilical cords. Two grams of acidified, ethanol extract in 150 ml of 1.0 M acetic acid was applied to a 14 x 100 cm column Amicon 86012 containing Bio Gel P10 and eluted at a flow rate of 7 ml min. One liter fractions were collected on a SuperRac LKB 2211 equipped with a type C collection rack LKB . One ml aliquots of each fraction 1 liter fraction were transferred to 12 x 75 mm sterile snap top tubes Falcon 1058 . TGI activity was determined as described in Materials and Methods. Inhibition of A549 human lung carcinoma cells is shown by open triangles and mink lung CCL64 cells by open circles. Absorbance of 280 nm was detected by a Uvicord S LKB 2138 with a full scale absorbance range of 1.0 AUFS and a single channel chart recorder LKB 2210 with a chart speed of 1 mm min. Elution pattern of gel filtration chromatography at 4 C of crude acidified, ethanol extract in 150 ml of 1.0 M acetic acid was applied to a 14 x 100 cm column Amicon 86012 containing Bio Gel P10 and eluted at a flow rate of 7 ml min. One liter fractions were collected on a SuperRac LKB 2211 equipped with a type C collection rack LKB . One ml aliquots of each fraction 1 liter fraction were transferred to 12 x 75 mm sterile snap top tubes Falcon 2058 . TGI activity was determined as described in Materials and Methods. Inhibition of A549 human lung carcinoma cells is shown by open triangles and mink lung CCL64 cells by open circles. Stimulation of normal human fibroblasts is shown by open squares. Absorbance of 280 nm was detected by Uvicord S LKB 2138 with a full scale absorbance range of 1.0 AUFS and a single channel chart recorder LKB 2210 with a chart speed of 1 mm min. Fraction 4 derived from gel filtration chromatography on Bio Gel P10 of human umbilical cord acidified, ethanol extract 65.8 mg protein was lyophilized and resuspended in 10 ml of 0.05 trifluoroacetic acid TFA . Fraction 4 was the first fraction following the major peaks of absorbance at 280 nm. Figure 2 The sample was centrifuged on a Beckman table top centrifuge Beckman TJ 6 at 3000 rpm for 20 minutes to remove insoluble material. Three separate injections of the supernatant were made through a Water s U6K injector equipped with a 2 ml sample loop. The sample was then loaded onto a uBONDAPAK C₁₈ column 0.78 x 30 cm Waters 84176 . The flow rate was 2 ml min. and the effluent monitored at 206 nm with a Waters u.v. detector Waters Model 481 at a sensitivity of 2.0 AUFS. Elution was achieved with a linear 30 min gradient from 0.25 of increasing concentrations of acetonitrile containing 0.05 TFA, followed by a linear 240 min gradient of 25 45 acetonitrile containing 0.05 TFA, followed by a linear 30 min gradient of 45 100 acetonitrile containing 0.05 TFA. A SuperRac LKB 2211 was used to collect 12 ml fractions. One ml aliquots of each fraction were transferred to 12 x 75 mm polystyrene tubes Falcon 2058 containing 50 ul of 1.0 M acetic acid and 50 ug of bovine serum albumin Sigma B and assayed for TGI activity as described in Materials and Methods. Inhibition of A549 human lung carcinoma cells is shown by open triangles and of mink lung CCL 64 by open circles. The solvent gradient is shown by large dashes . Pooled fractions of TGI activity 1.5 mg eluting between 28 34 acetonitrile fractions 13 22 by HPLC chromatography Figure 4 was lyophilized and resuspended in 2 ml of 0.05 TFA. The sample was centrifuged on a Beckman table top centrifuge Beckman TJ 6 at 3000 rpm for 20 minutes to remove insoluble material. Two separate injections of the supernatant were made through a Water s U6K injector equipped with a 2 ml sample loop. The sample was loaded onto a uBONDAPAK C₁₈ column 0.39 x 30 cm Waters 27324 . The flow rate was 1 ml min. and the effluent monitored at 206 nm with a Waters u.v. detector Waters Model 481 at a sensitivity of 2.0 AUFS. Elution was achieved with a linear 20 min gradient from 0 15 of increasing concentrations of 2 propanol containing 0.05 TFA, followed by a linear 120 min gradient of 15 35 2 propanol containing 0.05 TFA. A SuperRac LKB 2211 was used to collect 4 ml fractions. One ml aliquots of each fraction were transferred to 12 x 75 mm polystyrene tubes Falcon 2058 containing 50 ul of 1.0 M acetic acid and 50 ug of bovine serum albumin Sigma A 6003 and assayed for TGI activity as described in Materials and Methods. Inhibition of A549 human lung carcinoma cells is shown by open triangles and of mink lung CCL64 cells by open circles. The solvent gradient is shown by large dashes . Pooled fractions of TGI activity 0.8 mg eluting between 35 39 acetonitrile fractions 25 31 by HPLC chromatography Figure 4 was lyophilized and resuspended in 2 ml of 0.05 TFA. The sample was centrifuged on a Beckman tabletop centrifuge Beckman TJ 6 at 3000 rpm for 30 min to remove insoluble material. Two separate injections of the supernatant were made through a Water s U6K injector equipped with a 2 ml sample loop. The sample was loaded onto a uBONDAPAK C₁₈ column 0.39 x 30 cm Waters 27324 . The flow rate was 1 ml min and the effluent monitored at 206 nm with a Waters u.v. detector Waters Model 481 at a sensitivity of 1.0 AUFS. Elution was achieved with a linear 20 min gradient from 0.15 of increasing concentrations of 2 propanol containing 0.05 TFA, followed by a linear 120 min gradient of 15 35 2 propanol containing 0.05 TFA. A SuperRac LKB 2211 was used to collect 4 ml fractions. One ml aliquots of each fraction were transferred to 12 x 75 mm polystyrene tubes Falcon 2058 containing 50 ul of 1.0 M acetic acid and 50 ug of bovine serum albumin Sigma A 6003 and assayed for TGI activity as described in Materials and Methods. Inhibition of A549 human lung carcinoma cells is shown by open triangles and of mink lung CCL64 cells by open circles. The solvent gradient is shown by large dashes . Fraction 5 derived from gel filtration chromatography on Bio Gel P10 of human umbilical cord acidified, ethanol extract was lyophilized and resuspended in 4 ml of 0.05 trifluoroacetic acid. TFA . Fraction 5 was the second fraction following the major peaks of absorbance at 280 nm. Figure 2 The sample was centrifuged on a Beckman tabletop centrifuge Becman TJ 6 at 3000 rpm for 20 min to remove insoluble material. Two separate injections of the supernatant were made through a Water s U6K injector equipped with a 2 ml sample loop. The sample 1.3 ml total was then loaded onto a uBONDAPAK C₁₈ column 0.78 x 30 cm Waters 84176 . The flow rate was 2 ml min and the effluent monitored at 206 nm with a Waters u.v. detector Waters Model 481 with a sensitivity of 2.0 AUFS. Elution was achieved with a linear 30 min gradient from 0.25 of increasing concentrations of acetonitrile containing 0.05 TFA, followed by a linear 240 min gradient of 25 45 acetonitrile containing 0.05 TFA, followed by linear 30 min gradient of 45 100 acetonitrile containing 0.05 TFA. A SuperRac LKB 2211 was used to collect 12 ml fractions. One ml aliquots of each fraction were transferred to 12 x 87 mm polystyrene tubes Falcon 2058 containing 50 ul of 1.0 M acetic acid and 50 ug of bovine serum albumin Sigma A6003 and assayed for TGI activity as described in Materials and Methods. Inhibition of A549 human lung carcinoma cells is shown by open triangles and of mink lung CCL 64 cells by open circles. The solvent gradient is shown by large dashes . Pooled fractions of TGI activity 1.1 mg eluting between 29 34 acetonitrile Figure 7 fractions 14 25 were lyophilized and resuspended in 2 ml of 0.05 TFA. The samples were centrifuged on a Beckman tabletop centrifuge Beckman TJ 6 at 3000 rpm for 20 minutes to remove insoluble material. Two separate injections of the supernatant 1.6 ml were made through a Water s U6K injector equipped with a 2 ml sample loop. The sample was then loaded onto a uBONDAPAK C₁₈ column 0.78 x 30 cm Waters 84174 . The flow rate was 1 ml min and the effluent monitored at 206 nm with a Waters u.v. detector Waters Model 481 with a sensitivity of 1.0 AUFS. Elution was achieved with a linear gradient for 20 min from 0 10 of increasing concentrations of 2 propanol containing 0.05 TFA, followed by a linear 220 min gradient of 10 35 2 propanol containing 0.05 TFA, followed by a linear 20 min gradient of 35 45 2 propanol containing 0.05 TFA, followed by a linear 20 min gradient of 45 100 2 propanol containing 0.05 TFA. A SuperRac LKB 2211 was used to collect 8 ml fractions. One ml aliquots of each fraction were transferred to 12 x 75 mm polystyrene tubes Falcon 2058 containing 50 ul of 1.0 M acetic acid and 50 ug of bovine serum albumin Sigma 6003 and assayed for TGI activity as previously described. Inhibition of A549 human lung carcinoma cells is shown by open triangles and of mink lung CCL64 cells by open circles. The solvent gradient is shown by large dashes . CM TRISACRYL was resuspended in an equal volume of 0.1 M ammonium acetate, pH 4.0, containing 1.0 M NaCl. The resin was allowed to equilibrate for 3 hours and degassed at 4 C. Twenty ml of resin was packed into a 1.6 x 40 cm column Pharmacia 19 0362 01 and washed with 2 column volumes of 1.0 M ammonimum acetate pH 4.0, followed by 0.01 M ammonium acetate. The column was washed until the effluent matched the conductivity and the pH of the equilibrating buffer 0.01 M ammonium acetate pH 4.0 . One gram of human umbilical cord acidified, ethanol extract was resuspended in 50 ml of 1.0 M acetic acid and dialyzed against the column equilibration buffer at 4 C until the pH and the conductivity matched that of the equilibration buffer. The dialyzed acidified, ethanol extract was applied to the column at a flow rate of 1 ml min at 4 C and the column was washed with the equilibrating buffer until the absorbance , A280, as monitored by a Uvicord S LKB 2138 with a sensitivity of 1.0 AUFS, was at its lowest point. This was followed by 200 ml of an ascending molarity linear gradient from 0.01 to 1.0 M ammonium acetate, pH 4.0, which was applied using a gradient mixer Pharmacia GM 1, 19 0495 01 . At the end of the gradient, an additional 30 ml of 1.0 M ammonium acetate, pH 4.0, were passed through the column. Two ml fractions were collected in 12 x 100 mm polystyrene tubes Columbia Diagnostics B 2564 in a SuperRac fraction collector LKB 2211 . One ml aliquots from each fraction were transferred to 12 x 75 mm tubes Falcon 2058 containing 50 ul 1.0 M acetic acid and 50 ug bovine serum albumin Sigma A6003 , lyophilized, and assayed for TGI activity as described in Materials and Methods. Inhibition of A549 human lung carcinoma cells is shown by open triangles and of mink lung CCL64 cells by open circles. The salt gradient is shown by large dashes . CM TRISACRYL was prepared as described in Figure 9. The material from fractions containing CM III and CM IV were pooled, lyophilized, resuspended in 50 ml of 0.1 M acetic acid and dialyzed against the column equilibration buffer at 4 C until the pH and the conductivity matched that of the equilibration buffer. The sample was applied to the column at a flow rate of 1 ml min at 4 C and the column was washed with 120 ml of the equilibrating buffer. Absorbance A280 was monitored by a Uvicord S LKB 2138 with a sensitivity of 1.0 AUFS. One hundred ml of an ascending molarity linear gradient from 0.01 to 1.0 M ammonium acetate, pH 4.0, was applied using a gradient mixer Pharmacia GM 1, 19 0495 01 . At the end of the gradient, an additional 30 ml of 1.0 M amonium acetate, pH 4.0, was passed through the column. Two ml fractions were collected in 12 x 100 mm polystyrene tubes Columbia Diagnostics B2564 in a SuperRac fraction collector LKB 2211 . One ml aliquots from each fraciton were transferred to 12 x 75 mm tubes Falcon 2058 containing 50 ul 1.0 M acetic acid and 50 ug bovine serum albumin Sigma A6003 , lyophilized, and assayed for TGI activity as described in Materials and Methods. Inhibition of A549 human lung carcinoma cells is shown by open triangles and mink lung CCL64 cells by open circles. The salt gradient is shown by large dashes . 1.65 mg of protein extract prepared as described in the Second Series of Experiments was dialyzed extensively against 20mM ammonium acetate pH 4.5 and applied to a 5 ml 1 x 6.3 cm column of CM TRISACRYL previously equilibrated in 20 mM ammonium acetate pH 4.5 and 1.65 ml fractions 12 x 100 mm polystyrene tubes were collected. Following sample application, the column was washed with 20 mM ammonium acetate, pH 4.5, until the absorbance at 280 nm 0 0 returned to baseline values less than 0.003 as determined with a Bausch and Lomb 1001 spectrophotometer using a 1 cm light path quartz cuvet. A linear salt gradient 0 1.0 M NaCl in 20 mM ammonium acetate, pH 4.5 was applied and the absorbance at 280 nm of the 1.65 ml fractions was determined as described above. 10 ul aliquots of the indicated fractions were transferred to 12 x 75 mm tubes containing 50 ul 1.0 M acetic acid and 50 ug bovine serum albumin Sigma A6003 , lyophilized, and assayed for inhibitory activity against A549 human lung carcinoma cells as described under Materials and Methods. The NaCl gradient was determined by measuring the conductivity YSI Model 32 Conductance Meter of suitable samples diluted 100 fold in H₂O. 1.65 mg of protein extract prepared as described in the Second Series of Experiments was dialyzed extensively against 20 mM Tris HCl pH 8.0 and clarified by centrifugation at 3,000 x g for 15 minutes. DEAE TRISA CRYL was prepared by suspending the resin first in 20 mM Tris, HCl pH 8.0 containing 1.0 M NaCl for 3 hours and secondly in 0.5 M Tris, HCl pH 8.0 for 1 hour. The sedimented resin was washed on a buchner funnel with 1000 ml H₂O and finally resuspended in 20 mM Tris, HCl pH 8.0 , degassed and poured into a 5 ml column 1 x 6.3 cm and the resin equilibrated with 20 mM Tris, HCl pH 8.0 . The clarified sample was applied to the column and absorbance at 280 nm , inhibitory activity against mink lung cells 0 0 , and the NaCl gradient was determined as described in Fig. 11 and under Materials and Methods. The linear NaCl gradient in 20 mm Tris, HCl pH 8.0 ranged from 0 to 1.0 M NaCl. CM TRISACRYL was prepared as described in Fig. 9 with the exception that the final equilibration buffer was 20 mM ammonium acetate, pH 4 .5. Protein extract 9.9 mg prepared as above was dialyzed extensively against 20 mM ammonium acetate pH 4.5 and applied to a 15 ml 1.5 x 8.5 cm column of CM TRISACRYL in 20 mM ammonium acetate pH 4.5 . Absorbance at 280 nM and inhibitory activity against A549 human lung carcinoma cells were determined as described in Fig. 11. The volume of the linear 0 1.0 M NaCl gradient was 150 ml. Fraction volume was 3.7 ml. Fractions 59 thru 78 derived from cation exchange chromatography on CM TRISACRYL of human umbilical cord described in Fig. 13 were pooled, lyophilized, and resuspended in 10 ml of 0.05 trifluoroacetic acid TFA . A total of twenty percent of dialyzed material containing 240 ug protein was injected in three separate injections through a Water s U6K injector equipped with a 2 ml sample loop. The sample was then loaded onto a uBONDAPAK C₁₈ column 0.39 x 30 cm Waters 27324 . The flow rate was 1 ml min and the effluent monitored at 206 nm with a Waters u.v. detector Waters Model 481 at a sensitivity of 0.5 AUFS. Elution was achieved with a linear 5 min gradient from 0 25 of increasing concentrations of acetonitrile containing 0.05 TFA, followed by a linear 15 min gradient of 25 45 acetonitrile containing 0.05 TFA, followed by a linear 15 min gradient of 45 80 acetonitrile containing 0.05 TFA, followed by a linear 5 min gradient of 80 100 acetonitrile containing 0.05 TFA. A SuperRac LKB 2211 was used to collect 1 ml fractions. Five hundred microliter aliquots of every other fraction were transferred to 12 x 75 mm polystyrene tubes Falcon 2058 containing 50 ul of 1.0 M acetic acid and 50 ug of bovine serum albumin Sigma A0281 and assayed for TGI activity as described under Materials and Methods. Inhibition of A549 human lung carcinoma cells is shown by open triangles and of mink lung CCL64 cells by open circles. The solvent gradient is shown by large dashes . An acidified, ethanol extract derived from human tissue has been produced which comprises a plurality of polypeptides. Each of the polypeptides has a molecular weight less than about 20,000 daltons and each has the property of inhibiting the growth of human tumor cells and of an established mink lung cell line CCL64 while stimulating the growth of normal human foreskin fibroblasts. The inhibitory activity against human tumor cell growth is not destroyed upon increasing the temperature of the acidified, ethanol extract to about 100 C for about 3 minutes or upon adding acetic acid until the extract is up to about 1.0 molar in acetic acid. The inhibitory activity of the acidified, ethanol extract is enhanced when it is prepared at about 4 C rather than at about 23 C. In a preferred embodiment the human tissue is human umbilical cord, although other tissues, e.g. human placenta, may be used. An acidified, ethanol extract derived from human umbilical cord which has been treated to remove substantially all blood, all extracellular soluble components and all intracellular soluble components has also been produced which comprises at least one acidic polypeptide. The polypeptide has an apparent molecular weight less than about 30,000 daltons under nonreducing conditions and has the property of inhibiting the growth of human tumor cells and of an established mink lung cell line CCL64 while stimulating the growth of normal human foreskin fibroblasts. The inhibitory activity against human tumor cell growth is not destroyed upon increasing the temperature of the acidified, ethanol extract to about 100 C for about 3 minutes or upon adding acetic acid until the acidified, ethanol extract is up to about 1.0 molar in acetic acid. Various components of the acidified, ethanol extract may be prepared usin g techniques known to those skilled in the art, e.g., high performance liquid chromatography and cation exchange chromatography. Thus, a composition of matter designated tissue derived growth inhibitor 1 TGI 1 which comprises at least one polypeptide having the property of inhibiting the growth of human tumor cells and of an established mink lung cell line CCL64 but not the growth of normal human foreskin fibroblasts and having an apparent molecular weight in the range from about 5,000 16,000 daltons is recoverable as a defined activity on high performance liquid chromatography of the acidified, ethanol extract with a linear gradient of acetonitrile containing 0.05 trifluroacetic acid at about 26 34 acetonitrile and is recoverable as a defined activity on high performance liquid chromatography of the acidified, ethanol extract with a linear gradient of 2 propanol containing 0.05 trifluroacetic acid at about 17 23 2 propanol. TGI 1 is further separable into two components when eluted on high performance liquid chromatography with a linear gradient of 2 propanol containing 0.05 trifluroacetic acid into two activities, one of which elutes at about 26 2 propanol and preferentially inhibits the growth of human tumor cells but not the growth of an established mink lung cell line CCL64 and the other of which elutes at about 23 2 propanol and prefentially inhibits the growth of an established mink lung cell line CCL64 but not the growth of human tumor cells. Another composition of matter designated tissue derived growth inhibitor TGI which comprises at least one polypeptide having the property of inhibiting the growth of human tumor cells and of an established mink lung cell line CCL64 but not the growth of normal human foreskin fibroblasts is described. TGI has an apparent molecular weight in the range from about 20,000 30,000 daltons, is recoverable as a defined activity on high performance liquid chromatography of an acidified, ethanol extract with a linear gradient of acetonitrile containing 0.05 trifluroacetic acid at about 28 34 acetonitrile and is resolved as a single peak of defined activity from a cation exchange resin, e.g., CM TRISACRYL resin when eluted by a linear NaCl gradient at about 0.6 0.7 M NaCl. Another composition of matter designated tissue derived growth inhibitor 2 TGI 2 which comprises at least one polypeptide having the property of inhibiting the growth of human tumor cells and of an established mink lung cell line CCL64 but not the growth of normal human foreskin fibroblasts and having an apparent molecular weight in the range from about 5,000 16,000 daltons is recoverable as a defined activity on high performance liquid chromatography of an acidified, ethanol extract with a linear gradient of acetonitrile containing 0.05 trifluroacetic acid at about 35 39 acetonitrile and is recoverable as a defined activity on high performance liquid chromatography of the acidified, ethanol extract with a linear gradient of 2 propanol containing 0.05 trifluoracetic acid at about 23 27 2 propanol. Additonally, a heterogeneous population of polypeptides designed CM I, CM II, CM III and CM IV, each of which has the property of inhibiting the growth of human tumor cells, all of which except CM I have the property of substantially inhibiting the growth of an established mink lung cell line CCL64 and none of which inhibits the growth of normal human foreskin fibroblasts, is recoverable by cation exchange chromatography of the acidified, ethanol extract. TGI 1, TGI, TGI 2 or the heterogeneous population of polypeptides designated CM I, CM II, CM III and CM IV or various combinations thereof, may be used in pharmaceutical compositions which comprise an effective amount of TGI 1, TGI, TGI 2 or the heterogeneous population of polypeptides designated CM I, CM II, CM III and CM IV together with a suitable pharmaceutical carrier. Effective amounts may vary among the various tumor growth inhibitors depending on the in dication to be treated, the patient or the stage of tumor development, by methods well known to those skilled in the art. Similarly, suitable carriers such as saline or other aqueous solutions, gels, creams and the like are well known to those skilled in the art. TGI 1, TGI, TGI 2 or the heterogeneous population of polypeptides designated CM I, CM II, CM III and CM IV may be used to inhibit the growth of human tumor cells, e.g., carcinoma, melanoma or leukemia cells, by contacting the cells with an effective growth inhibiting amount of TGI 1, TGI, TGI 2 or the heterogeneous population of polypeptides designed CM I, CM II, CM III and CM IV. TGI 1, TGI, TGI 2 or the heterogeneous population of polypeptides designed CM I, CM II, CM III and CM IV may also be used to treat burns or to facilitate the healing of wounds by contacting the burn or wound with a pharmaceutical composition which includes an effective amount of TGI 1, TGI, TGI 2 or the heterogeneous population of polypeptides designated CM I, CM II, CM III and CM IV and a suitable pharmaceutical carrier. A method is disclosed for preparing the acidified, ethanol extract from human tissue, the acidified, ethanol extract comprising a plurality of polypeptides, each of which has a molecular weight less than about 20,000 daltons and each of which has the property of inhibiting the growth of human tumor cells and of an established mink lung cell line CCL64 while stimulating the growth of normal human foreskin fibroblasts, the method comprising under suitable conditions treating the tissue e.g., by freeze thawing or homogenization of the tissue, to produce lysed cells and solubilized proteins derived from the cells, recovering the solubilized proteins, separately recovering from the solubilized proteins polypeptides having an apparent molecular weight less than about 20,000 daltons, assaying the separately recovered polypeptides to identify those which either inhibit the growth of human tumor cells or inhibit the growth an established mink lung cell line CCL64 or enhance the growth of normal human foreskin fibroblasts and recovering an acidified, ethanol extract containing the polypeptides so identified. In a presently preferred embodiment, treating the tissue comprises thawing the frozen tissue at about 4 C for a suitable period of time, e.g. six hours, suspending the tissue in a suitable acidic extraction buffer containing ethanol at about 4 C and homogenizing the tissue for a suitable period of time to form homogenized tissue, stirring the homogenized tissue for a suitable period, e.g., overnight, about 4 C, to produced lysed cells and to solubilized proteins derived from the cells. A presently preferred acidic extraction buffer comprises about 375 ml of 95 v v ethanol, 7.5 ml of concentrated HCl, 33 mg. of phenylmethylsulfonyl fluoride PMSF and 1 ml of Aprotinin Sigma A6012 with 9.8 Trypsin inhibitor units per ml in 0.9 NaCl and 0.9 benzyl alcohol mixed with about 192 ml of distilled water at 4 C. In a presently preferred embodiment, recovering the solubilized proteins comprises separating the solubilized proteins from the lysed cells, e.g., by centrifugation, raising the pH to about 5.0, e.g., by adding ammonium hydroxide, removing the precipitate, e.g., by centrifugation, precipitating the proteins from the supernatant, e.g., by adding an alcohol, an ether, or both, removing the precipitate from the solution, e.g., by allowing the solution to stand at about 4 C for about 48 hours and by centrifugation, removing the organic phase from the precipitate, allowing the precipitate to dry, e.g., in a fume hood, redissolving the dried precipitate in a suitable solvent, e.g. 1 M acetic acid, and removing low molecular weight solutes from the solution, e.g., by dialysis. A method is also disclosed for preparing an acidified, ethanol extract from human umbilical cord, the acidified, ethanol extract comprising tissue derived growth inhibitor TGI which ha s an apparent molecular weight of about 20,000 30,000 daltons and which has the property of inhibiting the growth of human tumor cells and of an established mink lung cell line CCL64 while stimulating the growth of normal human foreskin fibroblasts. The method comprises under suitable conditions, removing veins and arteries from the umbilical cord tissue and washing the tissue to remove all traces of blood, treating the tissue to produce lysed cells and removing the soluble proteins derived from the cells, solubilizing and isolating the remaining proteins by acidified ethanol extraction to produced solubilized proteins, separately recovering from the solubilized proteins TGI having an apparent molecular weight of about 20,000 30,000 daltons, assaying the separately recovered TGI to identify the activity which inhibits the growth of human tumor cells, inhibits the growth of an established mink lung cell line CCL64 and enhances the growth of normal human foreskin fibroblasts, and recovering the acidified, ethanol extract containing the TGI so identified. In a presently preferred embodiment, treating the tissue comprises thawing the frozen tissue at about 4 C for a suitable period of time, e.g. two hours, removing the veins and arteries by dissection at about 4 C, suspending the tissue in a suitable buffer at about 4 C and homogenizing the tissue for a suitable period of time to form lysed cells and soluble proteins, separating the soluble proteins from the lysed cells, e.g. by centrifugation and stirring the lysed cells in extraction buffer for a suitable period, e.g. overnight at about 4 C to produce solubilized proteins. A presently preferred acidic extraction buffer comprises about 375 ml of 95 v v ethanol, 7.5 ml of concentrated HCl, 33 mg. of phenylmethylsulfonyl fluoride PMSF and 1 ml of Aprotinin Sigma A6012 with 9.8 Trypsin inhibitor units per ml in 0.9 NaCl and 0.9 benzyl alcohol mixed with about 192 ml of distilled water at 4 C. In a presently preferred embodiment, recovering the solubilized proteins comprises separating the solubilized proteins from the lysed cells, e.g., by centrifugation, raising the pH to about 5.0, e.g., by adding ammonium hydroxide, removing the precipitate, e.g., by centrifugation, precipitating the proteins from the supernatant, e.g., by adding an alcohol, an ether, or both, removing the precipitate from the solution, e.g., by allowing the solution to stand at about 4 C for about 48 hours and by centrifugation, removing the organic phase from the precipitate, allowing the precipitate to dry, e.g., in a fume hood, redissolving the dried precipitate in a suitable solvent, e.g., 1 M acetic acid, and removing low molecular weight solutes from the solution, e.g, by dialysis. In a presently preferred embodiment the separate recovery of polypeptides from the solubilized proteins comprises gel filtration chromatography of the proteins, e.g., on Bio Gel P 10 resin. In a presently preferred embodiment, assaying the polypeptides comprises separately contacting the human tumor cells, e.g. human lung carcinoma line A549 , or an established mink lung cell line CCL64 , or normal human foreskin fibroblasts HuF , under suitable conditions for a suitable period of time with the polypeptides so as to identify polypeptides which inhibit the growth of the human tumor cells or inhibit the growth of the established mink lung cell line CCl64 or which stimulate the growth of normal human foreskin fibroblasts. A method for preparing a composition of matter designated tissue derived growth inhibitor 1 TGI 1 which comprises first preparing the acidified, ethanol extract and then recovering TGI 1 from the acidified, ethanol extract as a defined activity by high performance liquid chromatography, e.g., reverse phase HPLC of the acidified, ethanol extract with either i a linear gradient of acetonitrile containing 0.05 trifluroacetic acid at about 26 34 acetonitrile or ii a linear gradient of 2 propanol containing 0.05 trifluroacetic acid at about 17 23 2 propanol. A method for preparing a composition of matter designated tissue derived growth inhibitor TGI which comprises first preparing an acidified, ethanol extract and then recovering TGI from the acidified, ethanol extract as a defined activity on high performance liquid chromatography, e.g. reverse phase of HPLC of the acidified, ethanol extract with a linear gradient of acetonitrile containing 0.05 trifluroacetic acid at about 28 34 acetonitrile, or as a single peak of activity from a cation exchange resin, e.g., CM TRISACRYL resin when eluted with a linear NaCl gradient at about 0.6 0.7 M NaCl. A method for preparing a composition of matter designated tissue derived growth inhibitor 2 TGI 2 which comprises first preparing the acidified, ethanol extract and then recovering TGI 1 from the acidified, ethanol extract as a defined activity by high performance liquid chromatography, e.g., reverse phase HPLC of the acidified, ethanol extract with either i a linear gradient of acetonitrile containing 0.05 trifluroacetic acid at about 35 39 acetonitrile or ii a linear gradient of 2 propanol containing 0.05 trifluroacetic acid at about 23 27 2 propanol. A method of preparing a heterogeneous population of polypeptides designated CM I, CM II, CM III and CM IV which comprises first preparing the acidified, ethanol extract and then recovering the heterogenous population of polypeptides from the acidified, ethanol extract by ion exchange chromatography, e.g. cation exchange chromatography. A method for detecting the presence of a tumor is disclosed. The method comprises quantitatively determining the amount of TGI 1, TGI, TGI 2 or the heterogeneous population of polypeptides designated CM I, CM II, CM III and CM IV present in a sample, e.g., blood, amniotic fluid, peritoneal fluid, ascites fluid, cerebrospinal fluid or urine, from a subject and comparing the amount so determined with the amount present in a sample from a normal subject, the presence of a significantly different amount, e.g. a significantly higher amount, indicating the presence of a tumor. Another method for detecting the presence of a tumor is disclosed. The method comprises separately quantitatively determining both the amount of TGI 1, TGI, TGI 2 or the heterogeneous population of polypeptides designated CM I, CM II, CM III and CM IV and of transforming growth factor alpha TGF alpha present in a sample from a subject, determining the ratio of the amount of TGI 1, TGI, TGI 2 or the heterogeneous population of polypeptides designated CM I, CM II, CM III and CM IV present in the sample to the amount of TGF alpha present in the sample from a subject, determining the ratio of the amount of TGI 1, TGI, TGI 2 or the heterogeneous population of polypeptides designated CM I, CM II, CM III and CM IV present in the sample, determining the comparable ratio for a sample from a normal subject and comparing the ratio for the sample from the subject to the ratio for the sample from the normal subject, a significant variation in the ratio indicating the presence of a tumor. A method for typing tumors is disclosed which comprises determining for a sample from a subject with a tumor the presence of one or more TGI 1, TGI, TGI 2 or the heterogeneous population of polypeptides designated CM I, CM II, CM III and CM IV, the presence or absence of a specific combination thereof, e.g., TGI and CM II or TGI 1 and TGI 2 being indicative of a specific tumor type, e.g., a melanoma or a carcinoma. Finally, a method for typing tumors is disclosed which comprises quantitatively determining for a sample from a subject with a tumor the amount of each of TGI 1, TGI, TGI 2 or the heterogeneous population of polypeptides designated CM I, CM II, CM III and CM IV present in the sample, the presence of specific amounts or relative amounts thereof, e.g, a significant increase in the amount of TGI or a significant variation in a ratio such as the ratio of TGI 1 to CM II. Under First Series of Experiments, TGI activity refers to the activity of TGI 1, TGI 2, CM I, CM II, CM III and CM IV unless otherwise noted. Human umbilical cord or placenta tissues were extracted using a modification of the acid ethanol extraction procedure described by Davoren et al Biochem. Biophys. Acta. 63 150 1962 and Roberts et al, Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA. 77 3494 1980 . The buffer for extraction consisted of 375 ml of 95 v v ethanol punctilious, 190 proof, U.S. Industrial Chemicals, UN1170 , 7.5 ml of concentrated HCl, 33 mg of phenylmethylsulfonyl fluoride PMSF Sigma P 7627 and 1 ml of Aprotinin Sigma A6012 with 19.8 Trypsin inhibitor units per ml in 0.9 NaCl and 0.9 benzyl alcohol mixed with 192 ml of distilled water at 4 C. Four hundred to six hundred grams of frozen human umbilical cords or placentas Advanced Biotechnologies stored at 80 C were thawed at 4 C for six hours. The thawed tissue was placed in a 4 C chilled Cuisinart food processor Model DLC 7 PRO and suspended in 200 ml of 4 C extraction buffer. The suspended tissue was homogenized by the food processor. After the first minute of homogenization, the suspension became creamy white. Another 200 ml of 4 C extraction buffer was added to this white suspension. The suspension changed to a dark coffee brown color. The tissue suspension was homogenized for a total of 10 min. at 4 C. Extraction buffer was added to this homogenized tissue mixture to a final volume of 6 ml per gram of tissue homogenate. The homogenized tissue suspension was transferred to a large 4 liter beaker with a 3 inch stir bar and stirred at half of the maximum stirring capacity of a Lab line Multimagnestir multi mixer, Model 1278. After overnight extraction with stirring at 4 C, the homogenate was transferred to 1 liter centrifuge bottles Sorvall and centrifuged at 3500 rpm RCF 350 for 30 minutes at 4 C in a Sorvall RC 3B centrifuge equipped with a Sorval H 6000A rotor. The supernatant was transferred to a large 4 liter beaker and adjusted to pH 5.0 with the slow addition of concentrated ammonium hydroxide. With increasing pH, the color of the supernatant changed from brown to an orange solution. The solution was precipitated following the addition of 2.0 M ammonium acetate, pH 5.2, added at an amount of 1 of the total volume. This precipitate was removed following centrifugation at 4500 rpm RCF 5900 for 4 hours in a Sorvall RC 3B at 4 C. The supernatant was transferred to large 6 liter flasks to which four volumes of anhydrous ether 20 C Baker 9244 3 and two volumes of 95 ethanol 4 C were added. The mixture was allowed to stand undisturbed at 220 C for 48 hours to allow the resulting precipitate to settle. At the end of the 48 hour precipitation, the etherized material was brought to ambient temperature in a fume hood. Warming of the acidified, ethanol extract to ambient temperature enhances the aggregation of the precipitate. The clear organic phase of ether and ethanol was removed by a water aspirator and the precipitate was left in the fume hood for several hours to allow the residual organic phase to evaporate. The dried precipitate was dissolved in 1.0 M acetic acid and dialyzed estensively against 1.0 M acetic acid Baker 9507 5 using dialysis membranes with a molecular cutoff of 3500 Spectropor 3, Spectrum Medical Industries, Los Angeles, CA . The dialyzed acidified ethanol extract was lyophilized in 250 ml Corning conical centrifuge tubes Corning 25350 and stored as crude acidified, ethanol extract. An alternative procedure for precipitating TGIs from the acidified, ethanol extract replaces the additi on of four volumes of ether and two of ethanol with the addition of only the two volumes of ethanol at 4 C. The advantage of eliminating ether from the acidified, ethanol extract precipitation step was the elimination of a step requiring the use of a highly flammable solvent which makes the procedure and any scale up of the processing of large amounts of materials difficult. Lyophilized crude acidified, ethanol extract was resuspended in 1.0 M acetic acid 10 30 mg ml and clarified by centrifugation at 3500 rpm for 30 min at 4 C in a Sorval RC 3B centrifuge equipped with a Sorvall H 6000A rotor before sample application to the column. Sample volumes of one hundred to 150 ml were chromatographed on Bio Gel P10, 100 200 mesh Bio Rad 150 1040 in 1.0 M acetic acid at either 23 or 4 C. The column 14 x 100 cm Amicon 86012 contained 13.8 liters of equilibrated and degassed Bio Gel P 10 in 1.0 M acetic acid at either 23 C or 4 C. The void volume was determined by the addition of 50 ml of blue dextran Sigma D5751 at 2 mg ml in 1.0 M acetic acid. After calibration, the column was conditioned with 100 ml of bovine serum albumin Sigma A 4503 at 100 mg ml in 1.0 M acetic acid followed by extensive washing with 1.0 M acetic acid. Following sample application, 1 liter fractions were collected using a SuperRac LKB 2211 equipped with a type C collection rack, at a flow rate of 7 ml min into 2 liter plastic tissue culture roller bottles Falcon 3207 . Fractions were monitored by a Uvicord S LKB 2138 at 280 nm set at an absorbance range of 2.0 AUFS and recorded by a single channel chart recorder LKB 2210 . One ml aliquots were removed from each fraction, lyophilized and assayed for TGI activity as described. The remainder of each fraction was lyophilized in 2 liter lyophilization jars Virtis 6503 2050 using a Virtis freeze model 24. Individual fractions containing TGI activity from the Bio Gel P 10 column were lyophilized and resuspended in 1 to 10 ml of 0.05 trifluoroacetic acid TFA Pierce 28901 depending upon the amount of protein in each fraction. Water used for HPLC was generated using a Milli Q water purification system. Starting buffer in all HPLC chromatography runs consisted of Milli Q water containing 0.05 TFA. Prior to injection, the sample was centrifuged in a Beckman tabletop centrifuge Beckman TJ 6 at 3000 rpm for 20 min to remove insoluble material. The supernatant was injected into either a Waters uBondapak analytical C₁₈ column 0.39 x 30 cm Waters PN27324 or semipreparative column 0.78 x 30 cm Waters PN84176 as specified in individual experiments. A Waters automatated gradient controller Waters Model 510 was utilized for column elution monitored by variable wavelength u.v. detectors Waters Lambda Max, Model 481 set at 206 nm. The solvent used for elution was either acetonitrile Baker 9017 3 or 2 propanol Fisher, A452 containing 0.05 TFA. Fractions were collected by a SuperRac LKB 2211 equipped with a type B collection rack into siliconized Pierce, Aquasil 42799 13 x 100 mm or 16 x 100 mm test tubes. Aliquots from each collected fraction were assayed for TGI activitiy as described below. Both the lyophilized material from the acidified, ethanol and ether extractions and various lyophilized fractions derived from the Bio Gel P 10 gel filtration chromatography were separately subjected to ion exchange chromatography. CM, SP, and DEAE TRISACRYL LKB ion exchange resins were used in these procedures. The samples for chromatography were diluted to a final concentration of approximately 20 mg ml in 1.0 M acetic acid. The samples were dialyzed at 4 C until both the pH and conductivity were equal to the starting equilibration buffer. All ion exchange chromatographic procedures were performed at 4 C. The resins, as aqueous suspensions, were suspended in an equal volume of 0.1 M ammonium acetate, pH 4.0, containing 1.0 M NaCl. The resin was allowed to equilibrate for at least 3 hours and was degassed at 4 C. Twenty ml of resin was packed into a 1.6 x 20 cm column Pharmacia 19 0362 01 and washed with 2 column volumes of 1.0 ammonium acetate, pH 4.0, followed by 0.01 M ammonium acetate, pH 4.0. The column was washed until the effluent exactly matched the conductivity of the equilibrating buffer i.e., 0.01M ammonium acetate, Fisher A637 , pH 4.0. The sample was applied to the resin 1 gm 20 ml resin at a flow rate of 1 ml min, the column was washed with equilibration buffer until the optical density leveled e.g., approaching zero optical density and 200 ml of an ascending molarity linear gradient Pharmacia gradient mixer GM 1, 19 0495 01 was applied through a column flow adaptor of concentrations 0.01 to 1.0 M ammonium acetate, pH 4.0. In certain experiments, a second gradient was applied to the same column. This second gradient ranged from 1.0 M ammonium acetate, pH 4.0, to 50 acetonitrile in 1.0 M ammonium acetate, pH 4.0. Two ml fractions were collected in polystyrene tubes, 13 x 100mm, Columbia Diagnostics B2564 in a SuperRac Fraction collector LKB 2211 , equipped with an A type collection rack. All column chromatography was performed with the aid of a Uvicord S with a 280 nm filter LKB 2138 and a single channel recorder LKB 2210 . Fractions were aliquoted based upon optical density ranging from 100ul to 1 ml, and assayed for TGI activity. The chromatographic resin preparation and procedure was performed exactly as described for CM and SP TRISACRYL chromatography, except the equilibration buffer used was 0.1 M ammonium acetate, pH 6.0, the gradient elution ranged from 0.1 M to 1.0 M ammonium acetate, pH 6.0, and the sample was equilibrated in the above mentioned equilibration buffer. Test cells were sub cultured on 96 well tissue culture plates Nunc 167008 in 50 ul of Dulbecco s modified Eagle s medium Whittaker M.A. Bioproducts 12 6143 containing 10 fetal bovine serum Whittaker M.A. Bioproducts 14 501B , 2 L glutamine Whittaker M.A. Bioproducts 17 605 A , 1 penicillin and 1 streptomycin. Human lung carcinoma cells, A549, and normal human fibroblasts HuF required a seeding density of 5 x 10³ cells per well. Mink cells ATCC CCL64 required a seeding density of 4.5 x 10³ cells per well. Aliquots from column fractions to be assayed for TGI activity were transferred to sterile 12 x 75 mm tubes Falcon 2058 containing 50 of ul lmg ml solution of bovine serum albumin BSA Sigma A 6003 in 1 M acetic acid and lyophilized. Immediatetly prior to the assay, the lyophilized sample was resuspended in 400 ul, for each cell type tested. One hundred ul aliquots of the resuspended sample were added to wells containing test cells. Each sample was assayed in triplicate. The cells were incubated for 72 hours at 37 in a humidified 5 CO₂ 95 air atmosphere. At the end of the incubation period, each well was pulsed with 100 ul of complete medium containing 1 uCi ml 5 ¹²⁵I Iodo 2 deoxyuridine ¹²⁵IUdR New England Nuclear NEX 072 for 24 hours. The monolayers were washed once with wash buffer A Dulbecco s phosphate buffered saline, with 10 mM MgCl₂, containing 1 mg ml BSA, pH 6.8 , fixed for 10 minutes in methanol Fisher A452 , and air dried for 15 minutes. The ¹²⁵IUdR incorporated by the cells was solubilized with 200 ul of 1.0 N NaOH and the plates incubated for 20 minutes at 60 C. Solubilized ¹²⁵IUdR con 2034 and resuspended in 1 ml of 1.0 M acetic acid. The samples were heated for 3 minutes in a boiling water bath, lyophilized, and assayed for TGI activity as described above. Three ml aliquots from fraction 2, 4 and 6 obtained from gel filtration chromatography on Bio Gel P 10, were lyophilized in 17 x 125 mm polystyrene screw cap tubes Columbia Diagnostics 2570 . Treated samples received 200 ul of 0.1 M ammonium bicarbonate containing a final concentration 0.1 M DTT Calbiochem 233 153 , pH 7.4. Control samples contained 200 ul 0.1 M ammonium bicarbonate Fisher, A643 , pH 7.4. The samples were incubated for one hour at 23 C, diluted to 1 ml with 1.0 M acetic acid, and dialyzed in 18 mm dialysis membranes with molecular weight cutoff of 3,500 daltons Spectropor 3, Spectrum Medical Industries , against four changes of 4 liters of 0.1 M acetic acid. The samples were lyophilized in 12 x 75 mm polystyrene tubes Falcon 2304 and assayed for TGI activity as describe above. Aliquots from samples from each chromatographic procedure were lyophilized for electrophoresis. Samples were diluted in 80 ul of sample buffer containing 0.1 M Tris HCl Sigma T 1503 , pH 6.8, 15 glycerol Kodak 114 9939 , 2 sodium dodecyl sulfate SDS Bio Rad 116 0302 , and 5 2 mercapto ethanol Bio Rad 161 0710 , and electrophoressed on a 5 20 acrylamide monomer gradient essentially as described Laemmli, U.K. 1970 Nature Fractions 1 to 3 from the umbilical cord acidified, ethanol extract are a very intense brown color the color gradually disappears as the fractions progress. Fortunately, although tumor cell growth inhibitory activity TGI eluted in fractions 1, 2, and 3 containing the highest protein concentrations, the majority of activity extends past the observed protein peaks as is clearly demonstrated in Figures 1 and 2. Extracts from human placental material showed a greater overlap of TGI with the major protein peaks than was observed with material from human umbilical cords data not shown . Aliquots of identical volumes from gel filtration chromatography electrophoresed by SDS PAGE on a 5 20 polyacrylamide gradient also illustrated that by fraction 4, considerably less protein is found than in fractions 1 to 3. In fractions 5 an 6, major protein bands of 5,600 and 14,000 band are observed and by fraction 7 very little protein r emains, although inhibitory activity extends into fraction 10 as shown in Figure 2. The obvious advantage of the majority of activity eluting in regions of less protein is that it facilitates further purification of TGIs. A comparison of Bio Gel P 10 chromatograms performed at room temperature and 4 C, illustrated in Figures 1 and 2, respectively, clearly indicate that inhibitory activity is better preserved at 4 C. At 23 C, no activity is observed past fraction 6 Figure 1 , while at 4 C, activity is extended for 4 more fractions to fraction 10. Most importantly, the net amount of activity recovered is at least two fold higher when extracts are chromatographed at 4 C, since 80 or more TGI activity is obtained in 7 fractions at 4 C Figure 2 and in only 3 fractions at 23 C. This was not due to a concentration of the same quantity of activity eluting in 3 fractions 23 C rather then being spread over 7 fractions 4 C , but apparently to actual increase in the yield of TGI activity. One ml aliquots of fraction 5 from both columns separately and dilutions of these fractions to 1 5 to 1 125 were tested on both the human lung adenocarcinoma A549 and mink lung cells CCL64 Table 1 . The TGI activity of the undiluted fraction was 2 fold higher in the fraction 5 obtained from chromatography at 4 C. Moreover, a 25 fold dilution of fraction 5 from chromatography at 4 C continued to yield maximum TGI activity against the human tumor cell line. A fraction of equivalent dilution from chromatography at 23 C showed no detectable activity. A similar observation was made with the mink cell line. This information was not based on activities observed in Figures 1 and 2 but from two separate columns which demonstrated equivalent TGI activities in their respective fifth fraction. One ml aliquots from gel filtration on fraction 5 Figures 1 2 containing 120 micrograms were used to assay TGI activity. Evidence of two distinct peaks of growth inhibitory activities against both the A549 human carcinoma and the mink cells were observed. The fractions eluting between 28 34 fractions 13 22 acetonitrile and 35 39 fractions 25 31 acetonitrile were pooled separately and rechromatographed on a C₁₈ uBondapak column using a linear gradient of 2 propanol. The first peak of TGI activity was gnated TGI 1 and the second TGI 2. Figure 5 demonstrates the elution profile and TGI activity of TGI 1 Figure 4 . The concentration of injected material was 1.5 mg 1.5 ml of 0.05 trifluroacetic acid TFA . TGI 1 activity elutes between 17 23 using a linear gradient of 2 propanol. Similarly, Figure 6 indicates that TGI 2 0.8 mg 1.8 ml 0.05 TFA Figure 5 rechromatographed between 23 27 fraction 17 23 using a linear gradient of 2 propanol. The TGI activity presented in Figures 4 and 5 are consistently 20 higher against the mink cells than against the A549 human carcinoma cells. Another total fraction from the Bio Gel P 10 chromatographic step, fraction 5 see Figure 3 , was chromatographed by HPLC using a linear acetonitrile gradient Figure 7 . Fraction 5, which was a later fraction than the material used in Figure 4 fraction 4 , predominantly contained inhibitory activity eluting as TGI 1. In Figure 7, TGI 1 eluted between 29 34 acetonitrile. Growth inhibitory activity was 35 higher against the mink cells than the A549 human carcinoma cells. The majority of TGI activity has now been separated from the peaks of protein. The active fractions 14 25 were pooled, lyophilized, and rechromatographed by reverse phase HPLC using a linear gradient of 2 propanol Figure 8 . Evidence of differential growth inhibitory activity was observed. The TGI activities were separated into a growth inhibitory activity specific for mink cells eluting at a peak of activity of 23 2 propanol fractions 22 25 and one specific for the A549 human carcinoma cells at 26 2 propanol fractions 25 26 . Therefore, a fraction eluting later from gel filtration chromatography that has less contaminating proteins lower absorbance at 280 nm Figure 2 and less protein by gel electrophoresis has two different cell specific inhibitory activities. Acid ethanol extracts of human placenta contained TGI activities which, following a gel filtration chromatographic step, also eluted between 26 34 acetonitrile of a C₁₈ column using a linear acetonitrile gradient containing 0.05 TFA. Although all the proteins that have inhibitory activity are acidic proteins, since they are soluble at pH 4.0 and bind to a negatively charged resin, peaks CM III and IV are probably slightly more basic since they bind more tightly to the CM TRISACRYL resin eluting at greater than 0.5M ammonium acetate . This is substantiated by the fact that no TGI activity was retained by a postively charged resin i.e. DEAE TRISACRYL data not shown . The more acidic inhibitory factors appear to be more specific for the A549 human carcinoma cells in their respective activities. These 4 peaks of TGI activities CM I, CM II, CM III, and CM IV have been repeatedly observed 6 separate chromatographic procedures with CM TRISACRYL . To ensure that the TGI activities observed in CM III and CM IV would not yield material that could be eluted earlier from the column, and also to provide support for the notion that each peak of activity is a separate entity, material from Protein concentrations for the fractions tested for TGI activity ranged from 15 300 ug. CM III and CM IV was pooled, lyophilized, and rechromatographed using CM TRISACRYL under the same conditions as the column from which it was derived. CM III and CM IV eluted greater than 0.5 M ammonium acetate in exactly the same position as did the original column fractions from which they were derived Figure 10 . The higher TGI inhibitory activity against mink cells was preserved and the difference between the inhibitory activity against the two cell lines remained exactly the same at 25 30 around the peak of activity. Fractions 2, 4 and 6 derived from gel filtration chromatography by Bio Gel P 10 were either heat treated Table 3 or reduced by dithiothreitol DTT treatment Table 4 . All fractions tested retained TGI activity following either heat or acid treatment see Table 5 . Fractions 2, 4 and 6 were found to inhibit human cancer cell growth and stimulate normal human cell growth. TGI activity in fractions 2 and 6 was decreased by treatment with DTT, while the TGI activity in fraction 4 was actually slightly increased Table 4 . This information further substantiates the existence of separate TGIs. Protein concentrations for the fractions tested from TGI activity ranged from 15 300 ug. Protein concentrations for the fractions tested for TGI activity ranged from 5 300 ug. Veins and arteries were removed from human umbilical cord tissues and the remaining tissues were extensively washed to remove blood prior to acid ethanol extraction as described under First Series of Experiments. The buffer for washing and homogenizing the tissue PBS PA consisted of 2 liters of water containing 16 gm NaCl, 2.5 gm Na₂HPO₄.H₂O, 0.4 gm NaH₂PO₄ The tissue was placed in a 4 C chilled Cuisinart food processor Model DLC 7 PRO and suspended in 200 ml of 4 C PBS PA. The suspended tissue was homogenized by the food processor. After the first minute of homogenization, an additional 200 ml of 4 C PBS PA was added. The tissue suspension was homogenized for a total of 10 min. at 4 C. The homogenate was transferred to 200 ml centrifuge bottles Sorvall and centrifuged at 9000 rpm RCF 13,000 for 5 minutes at 4 C in a Sorvall RC5B centrifuge equipped with a Sorvall GSA rotor. The supernatant fluid was removed and discarded and the pellet r esuspended to the original homogenate volume with fresh PBS PA. The pellet was washed by repeated centrifugation and resuspension as described until the supernatant fluid was clear with no tint of red from contaminating blood or blood products. The resulting washed pellet was white. The washed pellet was resuspended in the buffer for extraction to a final volume of 6 ml per gram of original dissected tissue. The homogenate was transferred to a large 4 liter beaker with a 3 inch stir bar and stirred at half of the maximum stirring capacity of a LAB line Multimagnestir multimixer, Model 1278. After overnight extraction with stirring at 4 C, the homogenate was transferred to 1 liter centrifuge bottles Sorvall and centrifuged at 3500 rpm RCF 3570 for 30 minutes at 4 C in a Sorvall RC 3B centrifuge equipped with a Sorvall H 6000A rotor. The supernatant was transferred to a large 4 liter beaker and adjusted to pH 5.0 with the slow addition of concentrated ammonium hydroxide. With increasing pH, the supernatant remained clear with a slight yellowish tint. A 2.0 M solution of ammonium acetate, pH 5.2, was added in an amount 1 of the total volume. Any precipitate formed by this step was removed by centrifugation at 4500 rpm RCF 5900 for 4 hours in a Sorvall RC 3B at 4 C. The supernatant was transferred to large 6 liter flasks to which four volumes of anhydrous ether 20 C Baker 9244 3 and two volumes of 95 ethanol 4 C were added. The mixture was allowed to stand undisturbed at 20 C for 48 hours to allow the resulting precipitate to settle. At the end of the 48 hr precipitation, the material was brought to ambient temperature in a fumehood. Warming of the acidified, ethanol extract to ambient temperature enhances the aggregation of the precipitate. The clear organic phase of ether and ethanol was removed by a water aspirator and the precipitate remained in the fume hood for several hours to allow the residual organic phase to evaporate. A gentle stream of dried nitrogen gas over the extract accelerated the evaporation of the remaining organic solvent present with the precipitate. The dried precipitate was dissolved in 1.0 M acetic acid and dialyzed extensively against 1.0 M acetic acid Baker 9507 5 using dialysis membranes with a molecular weight cutoff of 3500 Spectropor 3, Spectrum Medical Industries, Los Angeles, CA . The dialyzed acidified extract was lyophilized in 250 ml Corning conical centrifuge tubes Corning 25350 and stored as crude acidified, ethanol extract or dialyzed extensively against 20 mM NH₄O₂C₂H₃, pH 4.5. The improvement in the specific activity and total recovered activity seen when the tissue was prepared as described above is shown in Table 6. The table compares the yields of protein and TGI activity from frozen umbilical cord when it was processed according to the procedures detailed in the First Series of Experiment hereinafter inital procedure and when it was processed as describe above hereinafter modified procedure . There are several obvious differences in the two procedures which are of importance for the subsequent purification of TGI. For example, based on the wet weight of the tissue, acidified ethanol extraction by the initial procedure resulted in the recovery of 0.33 as protein 3.3 g from 1000 g tissue whereas only 0.015 as protein 0.05 g from 340 g tissue was extracted when following the modified procedure. Because the yield of activity was 50 greater 3.3 x 10⁶ units by the modified procedure than in the initial procedure 2 x 10⁶ units from 66 less tissue 340g vs 1000g the overall efficiency of extraction was improved. The initial procedure yielded 2000 units of TGI activity per gram of umbilical cord wet weight . The modified procedure yielded 9700 units of TGI activity per gram of umbilical cord wet weight . The overall efficiency of extraction was improved 5 fold by the modified procedure. Furthermore, since less protein was extracted by acidified ethanol, the volumes of ether and ethanol required to precipitate the extracted proteins Fractionation of TGI extracted using the modified procedure on the cation exchange resin CM TRISACRYL was resolved as a single peak from the bulk of the applied protein when the bound material was eluted by a linear salt gradient from 0 1.0 M NaCl. Figure 11 shows that following application of TGI to a CM TRISACRYL column no inhibitory activity was detectable from material not bound to the resin i.e., fractions 1 24 . The linear addition of increasing amounts of NaCl removed the majority of protein bound to the resin fractions 25 38 prior to the removal of significant amounts of inhibitory activity , fractions 39 49 . The NaCl concentration most effective in removing bound TGI was approximately 0.6 M fraction 44 . Comparison of Figure 11 with Figure 10 suggests that the inhibitory activity eluted in the experiment of Figure 11 most closely corresponds to the elution of CM III and CM IV from the CM TRISACRYL resin as depicted in Figure 9 since the salt concentrations NaCl, Figure 11 NH₄O₂C₂H₃, Figure 10 for elution are similar 0.6 M, Figure 11 0.6 0.7 M, Figure 10 . The above information also suggests that treatment of the tissue by the modified procedure allows the preferential isolation of a single type of TGI thus improving subsequent characterization of the factor. Another property of the TGI extracted from the tissue by the modified procedure is its failure to bind to anion exchange resin. Figure 12 shows that following adjustment of the pH to 8.0 as described in the figure legend and application of the extract an identical amount to that used in Figure 11 to the anion exchange resin DEAE TRISACRYL resulted in the majority of inhibitory activity associating with nonbinding material fractions 1 30 , whereas the bulk of the applied protein as determined by absorbance at 280 nm, bound to the column resin. These results show that under the conditions of Figure 12, contaminating proteins can be removed from TGI and, therefore, that it is a useful procedure for purification of TGI. In addition, these results show that that at pH 8.0, TGI is a cation since it does not bind the anion exchange resin. Finally, the results of Figure 12 show that TGI as extracted by the modified procedure is similar in ionic character to those polypeptides TGI 1, TGI 2, CM I, CM II, CM III and CM IV extracted by ion exchange resin in the initial procedure since none of these bound to the anion exchange resin. Large amounts of sample can be reproducibly fractionated by CM TRISACRYL, thus furnishing more TGI for subsequent purification procedures. In Figure 13, 9.9 mg of tissue extract were applied to a CM TRISACRYL column 15 ml under the same chromatographic conditions as shown in Figure 12 for a smaller sample size 2.65 mg protein on a smaller CM TRISACRYL column 5 ml . Resolution of TGI activity from the majority of proteinaceous material by a linear gradient of NaCl was essentially the same in both experiments. Figure 14 shows fractionation of pooled samples Figure 13, fractions 59 78 from a CM TRISACRYL column by HPLC on a uBondapac C18 column. Following application of the sample, no significant inhibitory activity was observed by linearly increasing acetonitrile concentrations from 0 25 . However, TGI activity against both A549 human lung carci noma and CCL64 mink lung, 0 0 eluted in a single peak between 28 34 acetonitrile fractions 21 31 while the majority of material absorbing at 206 nm was eluted at lower fractions 11 19 and at higher fractions 37 50 acetonitrile concentrations. The similarities in the activity profile, absorbance at 206nm, and the concentrations of acetonitrile which effectively elute TGI activity between Figure 7 and Figure 14 offer strong evidence that TGI isolated by the modified procedure is similar to or identical to that termed TGI 1 under the First Series of Experiments. An apparent molecular weight of TGI termed TGI 1 and CM III and CM IV in the initial procedure was determined by gel filtration chromatography Sephadex G 50, data not shown using suitable protein standards of known molecular weights. Thus, in the absence of certain interfering proteins e.g., hemoglobin the apparent molecular weight of TGI has been determined to be between 20 kDa and 30 kDa under nondenaturing conditions. The modified procedure detailed herein describes a powerful and simple procedure for removing inert or interfering compounds from the TGI containing extracts prepared as described in the initial procedure. Furthermore, the modified procedure improves the efficacy of the various chromatographic steps employed in the isolation of TGI by reducing the amount of chromatographic materials required thus reducing the preparation time of TGI. In addition, and as shown, extrac tion of TGI from the umbilical cord as described herein allows TGI and other proteins to chromatograph more reproducibly than in the procedure previously described. TGI isolated according to the modified procedure has been characterized with respect to the chromatographic features on both reverse phase high performance liquid chromatography and CM TRISACRYL ion exchange chromatography. TGI has been found to behave similarly to or identically with TGI 1 compare Figures 7 and 14 by rp HPLC, and thus has similar or identical hydrophobic properties and is shown also to behave similarly to or identically with CM III and CM IV compare Figures 9 and 11 on a cation exchange resin, thus having similar or identical ionic properties. It is therefore concluded that TGI as isolated in the modified procedure and TGI 1 and CM III and CM IV are similar or identical compounds having similar or identical ionic and hydrophobic properties and thus are of similar or identical composition. Therefore, the modified procedure described herein provides a more efficacious method of obtaining a purer form of TGI for further analysis and characterization.