# MELT FUSIBLE COPOLYIMIDES

## Claims
Heißschmelzbares Copolyimid, bestehend aus zwei Arten von sich wiederholenden Einheiten

## Description
This invention relates to certain melt fusible copolyimides useful in the manufacture of sheets, films, fabricated articles, and composite structures. For the purpose of the present disclosure and claims, the term melt fusible means that the material can be heated without significant decomposition above its glass transition temperature Tg , if it is amorphous, or above its crystalline melting point Tm , if it has crystallinity, and coalesced under pressure. Some of the polyimides of the present invention also are melt processible, which means that they can be fabricated by conventional melt processing techniques, such as extrusion and injection molding, in which the melt passes through an orifice. Polyimides are well known to the art and have been described in numerous patents and in scientific literature. A class of melt fusible polyimides has been reported in the copending European patent application 122 060. In all the polyimides of that application, the acid portion is derived from pyromellitic anhydride. Normally, it is very difficult to make melt fusible polyimides based on pyromellitic anhydride and an ordinary aromatic diamine therefore the Gannett et al. application proposes the use of certain specific aromatic diamines containing one or two ether or thioether groups, both amino groups being attached to the same aromatic ring when the diamine contains only one ether or thioether group. Those special diamines, however, are not all readily available, and those that are available tend to be expensive. It thus is desirable to replace at least a portion of such a special diamine with a cheaper, more readibly available aromatic diamine. According to the present invention, there is now provided a melt fusible copolyimide consisting of two types of repeating units where Q is a divalent organic radical represented by the following formula 3 where G is selected from isopropylidene, O, S, CH₂, SO₂, and CO and n is 0 or 1 neither one of the terminal bonds being in the ortho position and where G is selected from O, S, SO₂, and CO m and p are 1 q is 0 or 1 and Z is hydrogen or phenyl or each of m, p and q individually is 0 and Z is one of and is not in the ortho position with respect to both terminal bonds, and the two terminal bonds are not ortho to each other It can be readily recognized that Q and X in the polyimide fragment formulas 1 and 2 are the divalent radicals remaining after removing both NH₂ groups from the corresponding diamines, as represented by formulas 3 and 4 , while the acid moiety in each case is pyromellitic acid. Representative diamines from which the divalent radical Q is derived include the following 2,2 bis 4 aminophenyl propane, 4,4 diaminodiphenyl ether, 4,4 diaminodiphenylmethane, 1,3 diaminobenzene, 1,4 diaminobenzene, 1,4 diaminodiphenyl sulfone, and 1,4 diaminodiphenyl sulfide. Representative diamines from which the divalent radical X is derived include, for example, the following 1,3 bis 3 aminophenoxy benzene, 2,2 bis 4 aminophenoxyphenyl propane, 2,2 bis 4 aminophenoxy 3,5 dichlorophenyl propane, 2 2,4 diaminophenoxy biphenyl, and 2 phenyl 1,4 bis 4 aminophenoxy benzene. The novel polyimides of the present invention are most conveniently prepared by a two step process in a polar solvent such, for example, as N,N dimethylacetamide sometimes hereafter abbreviated to DMAc . Other suitable solvents include, for example, hexamethylphosphoramide, dimethyl sulfoxide, N methyl 2 pyrolidone, and diglyme. In the first step, a polyamic acid is prepared by addition of pyromellitic dianhydride PMDA to a solution of the appropriate diamines in the selected solvent. Imidization of the polyamic acid is then carried out by dehydration with a refluxing solution of pyridine in acetic anhydride. Dehydration also can be accomplished by heating the polyamic acid to a high temperature with or without a solvent. The diamines and pyromellitic anhydride can be used either in a stoichiometric ratio total diamine to PMDA or in a nonstoichiometric ratio. When a nonstoichiometric ratio is used, the free end groups preferably should be capped to enhance the melt viscosity stability of the product. When the free end groups are amino groups, which is the preferred alternative, the capping agent may be another anhydride, e.g., phthalic anhydride or an ester such as, e.g., a monoalkyl phthalate. When an excess of PMDA is used to make the polyimide, the end capping compound can suitably be an amine, e.g., aniline. The polyimides of the present invention are melt fusible. They can be compression molded into flexible films or drawn into filaments. Fabricated polyimide articles, both filled and unfilled, may be made by compression molding, extrusion, casting injection molding or drawing. The principal use of these polyimides may be, however, in the manufacture of composite sheets by impregnating a fibrous substrate with polyimide precursor solutions. Those composite sheets can be based on a number of such substrates, woven, nonwoven, tow, felt, unidirectional continuous fibers, etc. For many applications, such as various aerospace components, carbon fibers and aramid fibers, which produce light and strong composites, are the most preferred. Other fibers include, among others, glass, boron, and asbestos fibers. The polyimide itself may be filled with reinforcing additives, which may be fibrous, as above, or particulate. Particulate fillers include, for example, carbon and graphite powders, mica, silica, clay, and silicon carbide whiskers. Fiber reinforced polyimide compositions will usually contain 5 to 70 volume of the additive. For particulate filled compositions, the range is 5 50 volume , especially 5 25 volume . The usual technique for making composites involves a two step operation. In the first step a fibrous substrate is impregnated with a solution of polyimide precursors in an appropriate solvent, and the impregnated substrate is heated, usually at an elevated temperature, to reduce the volatiles content, usually to 25 weight or less, preferably 10 20 . The partly devolatilized, impregnated fibrous substrate, so called prepreg, is then used to form the final shaped article, either as a single layer but normally as a multilayer structure, and the polyimide is formed Prepregs contain up to 70 volume of fibers on volatiles free basis , preferably 40 65 . Impregnation of a fibrous substrate directly with a molten stoichiometric polyimide is usually not practical because of excessively high melt viscosity of the polyimide even at temperatures approaching its decomposition temperature. However, when an end capped non stoichiometric polyimide is employed, impregnation of a fibrous substrate with such a molten polyimide without significant decomposition is entirely feasible. Such impregnated structures sometimes called cured prepregs are formed into shaped articles with the aid of equipment permitting localized heating to high temperature, so that the cured prepreg is heat shaped into the final article in one step. Similarly, a normal wet prepreg can be heated to a high enough temperature to cause both devolatilization and curing and then heat shaped into the final article. The polyimides of the present invention can be used in such diverse applications as composite sheets which can be formed into articles such as aircraft and autobody panels, appliance housings, printed circuit boards, and missile parts films, especially films which must be capable of withstanding high temperatures, such as, for example, wire insulation and flexible circuits coatings, This invention is now illustrated by certain representative embodiments thereof, where all parts, proportions, and percentages are by weight, unless otherwise indicated. All the units are those adopted by American National Metric Council, Guide SIG 04 1978 . Pyromellitic diannydride is commercially available from Veba Huls of the German Federal Republic however, pyromellitic dianhydride available internally from Du Pont was used. N,N Dimethylacetamide, which was used as the solvent in some reactions, was stored over 4A molecular sieves activated by heating 4 hours at 450 C in a stream of nitrogen , and before use was filtered through activity I acidic alumina to remove dimethylamine . Pyridine was stored over activated 4A molecular sieves, and in most examples had been distilled from calcium hydride. All the inherent viscosity measurements were obtained at a concentration of approximately 0.5 g 100 mL of solution at room temperature. The polyamide acid solutions were diluted to the required concentration with DMAc. The polyimide viscosity determinations were carried out at approximately the same concentrations in 100 sulfuric acid. The inherent viscosity of intermediate polyamide acids was kept within the range of about 0.2 3.0 dL g. In a dried 250 mL flask fitted for mechanical stirring were placed 5.13 g 0.0125 mole of 2,2 bis 4 aminophenoxyphenyl propane, 2.475 g 0.0125 mole of bis 4 aminophenyl methane and 55 mL of N,N dimethylacetamide. After the diamines had dissolved, the solution was cooled in an ice bath 5.45 g 0.025 mole of pyromellitic dianhydride was added and rinsed into the flask with 24 mL of N,N dimethylacetamide. After 15 minutes, the ice bath was removed, and the solution was stirred for 2 hours at room temperature. A small sample 1 mL was removed, diluted with N,N dimethylacetamide to 10 mL and found to have an inherent viscosity of 0.52 dL g. The remainder of the reaction solution was added dropwise to a refluxing mixture of 25 mL of N,N dimethylacetamide, 6.5 mL of acetic anhydride and 5 mL of pyridine. After completion of the addition, the mixture was refluxed for 2 hours and then cooled to room temperature. The precipitated polyimide was isolated by filtration, washed with N,N dimethylacetamide and then with acetone and dried overnight at 200 C in a vacuum oven. The polyimide was melt pressed at about 400 C into a tough coherent film. In a dried 500 mL flask fitted for mechanical stirring were placed 10.0 g 0.050 mole of 4,4 diaminodiphenyl ether and 16.35 g 0.056 mole of 1,3 bis 3 aminophenoxy benzene, and 150 mL of dried N,N dimethylacetamide. Pyromellitic dianhydride 21.8 g, 0.10 mole was added to the above solution at 20 25 C. The resulting solution was stirred at room temperature for 2 hours, and 1.78 g 0.012 mole of phthalic anhydride was added. The reaction mixture was stirred for one additional hour. The polyamide acid was chemically imidized with excess acetic anhydride and pyridine, filtered, washed with water and then with methanol, and dried in a vacuum oven at about 200 C. The copolyimide could not be melt pressed into a coherent film at 400 C. It showed decomposition at higher temperatures about 450 C . The procedure of Example 2 was carried out for the copolyimide preparation, except that 5.0 g 0.025 mole of 4,4 diaminodiphenyl ether and 23.6 g 0.0807 mole of 1,3 bis 3 aminophenoxy benzene were used. The copolyimide could be melt pressed into a coherent film. In each of the Examples 4 through 19, procedures identical to those described in Examples 1 through 3 were carried out for the copolyimide preparation, except that the diamine components were those shown in the following Table. All the copolyimides in these examples were melt pressed into coherent films at 400 C or below.