# Vertical apparatus for continuous deposition of semiconductor alloys

## Abstract
Apparatus 26 for continuous deposition of semiconductor alloys by glow discharge including a plurality 28, 30, 32 of interconnected deposition chambers. At least one deposition chamber contains a generally vertical cathode plate 62 having opposed faces for establishing a plasma with a continuous substrate continuously passing through the chamber to deposit semiconductor alloy material on to the substrate. The apparatus includes rollers 76 about which the substrate is trained to advance the substrate between chambers in a generally horizontal path and through the chambers in a generally vertical path, opposed to the cathode plate, to shorten the apparatus.

## Claims
1. Apparatus 26 for continuous deposition of semiconductor alloy material, said apparatus including a plurality of descrete deposition chambers 28, 30, 32, 34, 36, 38, 40, 42, 44 in each of which a layer of semiconductor may be deposited means 11a, 11b for continuously advancing a continuous web substrate through said chambers, each chamber containing a manifold 64 for introducing a mixture of precursor into the chamber, an exhaust conduit 66 for exhausting spent gases from the chamber, and at least for one cathode for establishing a glow discharge with said substrate for decomposing the precursor mixture in a plasma region isolation modules 46 interconnecting adjacent ones of said chambers for passage of the substrate and isolating the precursor gas mixtures in adjacent chambers from each other, characterized in that at least one of said chambers includes means 76 for directing said substrate in a generally vertical orientation through said plasma region and the cathode contained within said chamber is generally vertically oriented.

## Description
Amorphous thin film semiconductor alloys have gained acceptance for the fabrication of electronic devices such as photovoltaic cells, photoresponsive and photoconductive devices, transistors, diodes, integrated circuits, memory arrays and the like. Amorphous thin film semiconductor alloys can be manufactured by relatively low cost continuous processes, possess a wide range of controllable electrical, optical and structural properties and can be deposited to cover relatively large areas. Among the semiconductor alloy materials exhibiting the greatest present commercial significance are amorphous silicon, germanium and silicon germanium based alloys. Commercial processes for the continuous roll to roll manufacture of large area photovoltaic devices are disclosed in U.S. Patents 4,400,409, for A Method of Making P Doped Silicon Films and Devices Made Therefrom, 4,410,588, for Continuous Amorphous Solar Cell Production Systems and 4,438,723, for Multiple Chamber Deposition and Isolation System and Method. As disclosed in these patents, a web of substrate material may be continuously advanced through a succession of interconnected deposition chambers, in each of which a specific layer of a semiconductor alloy is deposited on the web or on a previously deposited layer. In making a photovoltaic device, for instance, of n i p type configuration, the first chamber is dedicated to the deposition of a layer of an n type semiconductor alloy material, the second chamber is dedicated to the deposition of a layer of an intrinsic amorphous semiconductor alloy, and the third chamber is dedicated to the deposition of a layer, of a p type semiconductor alloy. The layers of semiconductor alloy thus deposited may be utilized to form photovoltaic devices that include one or more cascaded n i p cells. By making multiple passes through the succession of deposition chambers or by providing an additional array of deposition chambers, multiple cells of various configurations may be produced. The term n i p type refers to any sequence of n and p or n, i and p semiconductor alloy layers. In devices currently manufactured, the thicknesses of individual layers of semiconductor alloy material vary from approximately 10 nanometers for the doped layers to approximately 350 nanometers for the thickest intrinsic layer. Since for a particular deposition process the speed of the web is fixed, the thickness of a deposited layer is directly related to the residence time of the web of substrate material in a deposition chamber. The thickest layer requires a deposition chamber 35 times longer than the thinnest layer. As more cells are deposited in one pass of a web substrate, the number of deposition chambers and the deposition apparatus becomes unmanageably long. In order to maintain a reasonably sized deposition apparatus, a machine design different from that disclosed in the cited patents is needed. A non horizontally disposed cathode plate for depositing semiconductor alloy material is described in U.S. Patent 4,423,701 for Glow Discharge Deposition Apparatus Including A Non Horizontally Disposed Cathode. The vertical cathode disclosed there reduced the probability that deposition debris would fall on the vertically disposed substrate, requiring less down time for cleaning. The patent also disclosed the simultaneous use of two substrate webs, in two discrete plasma regions, one on each of the of the opposed faces of the vertical cathode. However, the patent did not consider or solve the problem of shortening an excessively long deposition apparatus for fabricating nine or twelve layer devices or improvements in efficiency of reaction gas useage. In the invention, apparatus for the continuous vapor deposition of layers of semiconductor alloy material on a web substrate is disposed in a different orientation from that when the substrate travels between the chambers. Preferably the substrate is generally vertical during the deposition process and generally horizontal during transport between chambers resulting in a shortened apparatus. The web substrate is trained about a plurality of rollers that direct the web through and between the chambers. A cathode plate disposed between oppositely moving generally vertical web portions deposits on two web surfaces simultaneously. The cathode is perforated so that a precursor gas mixture is uniformly distributed on both sides of the cathode. Ceramic magnets in the deposition chambers urge the magnetic substrate web generally into a plane in the regions where deposition occurs. In a preferred embodiment, at least one group of three deposition chambers are included in the apparatus, one of which is dedicated to the deposition of an n type semiconductor alloy, another of which is dedicated to the deposition of a p type layer, while the middle chamber is dedicated to the deposition of an intrinsic type layer. Additional groups of three deposition chambers may be added for depositing additional n i p cells. The generally vertical cathodes are housed in a series of cathode towers. The height of each of the cathode towers and the number of cathode towers may be selected to produce a desired concentration profile of constituents in the deposited semiconductor alloy. An insulating film may be applied to one face of a cathode plate in one or more of the cathode towers to limit the length of the plasma region of the tower. In Figure 1, a p i n type photovoltaic device 10, such as a solar cell, is made up of individual p i n type cells 12 Each of the cells 12 Figure 2 shows a diagrammatic representation of an embodiment of a deposition apparatus 26 according to the invention. Figure 2 appears in four sections because of the length of apparatus 26. The sections fit together end to end as explained in the following description. Apparatus 26 includes a plurality of deposition chambers through which a continuous web substrate 11 passes. The chambers are aligned so that the path of the substrate consists of generally vertical and generally horizontal portions with no significant or intentional side to side movement. A particular gaseous mixture of process gases is introduced into each chamber for depositing a particular type of semiconductor alloy in that chamber. The atmospheres in separate chambers are mutually isolated by isolation modules disposed between adjacent chambers. Apparatus 26 is configured to manufacture a structure having three n i p type cells in a large volume over large areas. Apparatus 26 includes a first deposition chamber 28 for depositing an n type conductivity layer of semiconductor alloy on web substrate 11 as the web continuously moves through chamber 28. After leaving chamber 28, the coated web enters deposition chamber 30 in which a layer of substantially intrinsic semiconductor alloy is deposited on the n type layer. To complete the first cell, the coated web exits chamber 30 and enters a chamber 32 in which a layer of p type conductivity semiconductor alloy is deposited on the intrinsic layer. The additional two cells are deposited in the same fashion in the six following deposition chambers. In a fourth deposition chamber 34, a second n type conductivity layer is deposited in a fifth deposition chamber 36, a second layer of intrinsic amorphous semiconductor alloy is deposited in a sixth deposition chamber, a second layer of p type conductivity semiconductor alloy is deposited in a seventh deposition chamber 40, a third layer of n type conductivity semiconductor alloy is deposited in an eighth deposition chamber 42, a third layer of intrinsic semiconductor alloy is deposited and in a ninth deposition chamber 44, a third layer of p type conductivity semiconductor alloy is deposited, to complete the nine layer deposition sequence possible in apparatus 26 with a single passage of substrate 11 through it. Additional individual or groups of three deposition chambers may be added to change the capabilities of apparatus 26. The sequence in which the conductivity types of the layers is deposited may be reversed or otherwise altered. Discrete substrates may also be continuously fed through the apparatus. Since a continuous substrate passes through each chamber at the same speed, the thickness of a layer deposited in a particular chamber is directly related to the amount of time a particular point on the substrate is resident within that chamber. To deposit layers of different thicknesses, the geometry of the chambers must be varied to change residence time. Such a change can be seen by comparing chambers 28 and 30. Since the first intrinsic layer is preferably the thickest layer, the path of travel of web 11 through chamber 30 is much longer than the path of travel through chamber 28. Chamber 28 contains a total of five rollers over which web 11 is trained and four deposition regions, as further explained below. By contrast, chamber 30 contains eight deposition regions with a total of ten rollers for guiding web 11. As a result, a far thicker layer may be deposited in chamber 30 than can be deposited in chamber 28. Apparatus 26 includes a plurality of isolation modules 46 A substrate cleaning chamber 50 is disposed between a chamber 52, from which substrate 11 is paid out from a supply roll 11 Preferably, the surface web 11 is protected by a sheet of material, such as paper, that is disposed between the wound layers of the roll of substrate web. As web 11 is unwound from roll 11 At the other end of apparatus 26, following the path of web 11 out of chamber 44, the coated web is collected in a take up chamber 54 and wound about a take up roll 11 External isolation modules 46 In Figure 3 the interior structure of a deposition chamber is shown schematically. From that drawing and the following description, the structure of all the deposition chambers of apparatus 26 may be understood. The deposition chamber of Figure 3 is generally vertical. That is, web 11 enters in a generally horizontal plane, then is turned to a generally vertical plane for deposition and back to a generally horizontal plane to exit the chamber. Because of this orientation, there is a distinct top and bottom orientation in the chamber. The chamber contains a generally vertical cathode plate 62 containing a plurality of apertures for the uniform mixing of process gases introduced from an apertured manifold 64. An upper, inverted U shaped cathode shield 68 restricts the precursor gaseous mixture from exiting the plasma region between the cathode and substrate. A lower cathode shield 66 The precursor gaseous mixture flows generally parallel to web 11. Banks of substrate heaters 72 Web 11 is turned from its generally horizontal path on entering the chamber by a first turning roller 76 The number of vertically oriented cathode plates 62 disposed in a single deposition chamber and the heights of those plates is essentially unlimited. A thicker layer of semiconductor alloy may be deposited on a web substrate by increasing the number of such cathode plates in a chamber without a significant increase in the length of the apparatus. A single source of the precursor gaseous mixture is introduced into the cathode region for simultaneous decomposition on both faces of the cathode plate, thereby using a greater percentage of the gas introduced into the chamber. The novel apparatus may also be used to profile a depositing a layer of semiconductor alloy. Profiling means the incorporation of a reduced or increased percentage of one component of a gaseous precursor through a given thickness of a layer of semiconductor alloy material. For instance, an intrinsic layer is routinely profiled with an increasing amount of boron from the light incident surface to the bottom of the layer to achieve uniform absorption of photons throughout the bulk of that intrinsic layer. Since the precursor gaseous mixture introduced into each of the vertically disposed cathode towers may be individually selected, and the height of each of the vertically disposed cathodes, and hence the length of time the web of substrate material resides within the plasma regions, may be separately selected for each chamber, profiling is readily accomplished. In addition one face of a cathode plate 62 can be insulated so that a plasma region forms only adjacent the noninsulated face. For example, in deposition chamber 30, cathode tower 34