# Improved process for production of quinoline 3 carboxylic acid antibacterial agents.

## Abstract
An improved process for the preparation of 7 substituted amino 1 cyclopropyl 6, 8 difluoro 1,4 dihydro 4 oxo 3 quinolinecarboxylic acids of formula

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A process for the preparation of a compound of the formula EMI21.1 and pharmaceutically acceptable acid addition or base salts thereof, wherein A is a substituted amino group, X is hydrogen or fluorine, and R2 is alkyl of one to three carbon atoms or cycloalkyl of three to six carbon atoms, which comprises a redacting 1.0 3.0 equivalent of an alkali metalnucleohil in an anhydrous inert solvent with a compound of the formulaEMI21.2 wherein R2 and X are as defined above and R1 is alkyl of one to three carbon atoms, at 0 150 C to form an alkali metal salt thereof and, if desired, isolating said salt b adding at least one equivalent of the appropriate amine to the isolated alkali metal salt in an aprotic solvent or in situ to the alkali metal salt solution containing an aprtic co solvent and heating the reaction mixture between 60 and 120 C until the reaction is complete c removing the solvents and treating the solids with ester then with dilute acid to a pH of 5.5 7.5, and, if desired, converting the resulting compound of Formula I to a pharmaceutically accep table acid addition salt thereof. 2. A process according to Claim 1, wherein in step a the anhydrous inert solvent is selected from the group consisting of methanol, ethanol, isopropanol, dioxane, tetrahydrofuran, diglyme, pyridine, collidine, dichloromethane, or chloroform. 3. A process according to Claim I or 2, wherein the methyl or ethyl ester of l ethyl or l cyclopropyl 6,7,8 trifluoro 1,4 díhydro 4 oxo 3 quinolinecarboxylic acid is used as starting material. 4. A process according to Claim 1, 2 or 3 vein the alkali metal nucleophile is an alkali metal hydroxide, halide, or trimethylsilanoate. 5. A process according to Claim 4, wherein the alkali metal hydroxide is sodium or potassium. 6. A process according to Claim 4, wherein the alkali metal nucleophile is lithium iodide, lithium bromide, sodium trimethylsilyloxide or potassium trimethylsilanoate. 7. A process according to Claim 1, wherein in step b the aprotic solvent is selected from the group consisting of N,N dimethylformamide, N,N dimethylacetamide, dimethylsulfoxide, and acetonitrile. 8. A process according to any preceding claim,wfrerein step b is carried out at 0 1500C. 9. A process according to any preceding claim, wherein A is a five or six membered heterocyclic amino group, which may be interrupted by N R3, in which ring may be substituted by alkyl of one to three carbon atoms, amino, methylamino, ethyl amino, alkylaminoethyl, or alkylaminoethyl in which alkyl has one to three carbon atoms, and wherein R3 is hydrogen or alkyl of one to four carbon atoms. 10. A process according to any preceding claim, wherein A is piperazine, N methylpiperazine or a pyrrolidine of the formulaEMI23.1 in which n is 0 or 1 and R3 is hydrogen, methyl, ethyl, 1 or 2 propyl. 11. A process according to any preceding claim, wherein A is of the formulaEMI23.2 in which R3 is hydrogen, methyl, ethyl, 1 or 2 propyl. 12. A process according to Claim 1, wherein A is of the formulaEMI24.1 in which R is hydrogen, methyl, ethyl, 1 or 2 propyl, hydroxyethyl, benzyl, or p aminobenzyl, and R is hydrogen or acetyl. 13. A process according to Claim I in which one of the following compound is prepared 7 3 aminomethyl 1 pyrrolidinyl 1 cyclopropyl 6,8 difluoro 1,4 dihydro 4 oxo 3 quinolinecarboxylic acid 1 cyclopropyl 7 3 ethylamino methyll l pyrrolidinyll 6,8 difluoro 1,4 dihydro 4 oxo 3 quinolinecarboxylic acid 7 3 amino 1 pyrrolidinyl 1 cyclopropyl 6,8 difluoro 1,4 dihydro 4 oxo 3 quinolinecarboxylic acid 1 cyclopropyl 6,8 difluoro 1,4 dihydro 7 3 methylamino methyl 1 pyrrolidinyl 4 oxo 3 quinolinecarboxylic acid l cyclopropyl 7 3 ethylamino 1 pyrrolidinyl 6,8 difluoro 1,4 dihydro 4 oxo 3 quinolinecarboxylic acid l cyclopropyl 6, 8 difluoro1,4 dihydro 7 3 1 methylethyl amino methyl 1 pyrrolidinyl 4 oxo 3 quinoline carboxylic acid 7 2,5 diazabicyclo 2.2.2 oct 2 yl l cyclopropyl 61 8 difluoro l, 4 dihydro 4 oxo 3 quinolinecarboxylic acid 7 3 exo amino 8 azabicyclo 3.2.1 oct 8 yl 1 cyclopropyl 6,8 difluoro 1,4 dihydro 4 oxo 3 quinolinecarboxylic acid 7 1,4 diazabicyclo 3.2.1 oct 4 yl l cyclopropyl 6,8 difluoro 1, 4 dihydro 4 oxo 3 quinolinecarboxylic acid . 1 cyclopropyl 6,8 difluoro 1,4 dihydro 7 5 methyl 2,5 diazabicyclo 2.2.1 hept 2 yl 4 oxo 3 quinolinecarhoxylic acid l cyclopropyl 7 2, 5 diazabicyclo 2.2.1 hept 2 yl 6,8 difluoro 1,4 dihydro 4 oxo 3 quinolinecarboxylic acid or 1 ethyl 7 3 ethylamino methyl l pyrrolidinyl 6,8 difluoro 1,4 dihydro 4 oxo 3 quinolinecarboxylic acid.

## Description
IMPROVED PROCESS FOR PRODUCTION OF QUINOLINE 3CARBOXYLIC ACID ANTIBACTERIAL AGENTS Belgium Patent 899,399 describes certain 7 piper azine l cyclopropyl 6,8 difluoro 1,4 dihydro 4 oXo 3 quinolinecarboxylic acids. GermanOffenlegungschrift 3318145 describes various 7 amino 1 cyclopropyl 6,8 difluoro 1,4 dihydro 4 oxo 3 guinolinecarboxylic acids. European PatentPublication 106489 describes 7 cyclic amine i cyclopropyl 6, 8 difluoro l,4 dihydro 4 oxo 3 quinolinecarboxylic acids. All of the above compounds are useful as antibacterial agents and have been described as being prepared by dispiacement of a 7 fluoro atom from a compound of the formulaEMI1.1 wherein X is hydrogen or fluorine R1 is hydrogen or lower alkyl, and R2 is alkyl of one to three carbon atoms or cycloalyl of three to six carbon atoms, with the appropriate amine. The object of the present invention is an improved process for preparing the compounds described above by converting a lower alkyl ester of l alkyl or cycloalkyl 6,7,8 trifluoro or 6,7difluoro 1,4 dihydro 4 oxo 3 quinolinecarboxylic acid to the corresponding alkali metal salt and either after isolating the precipitated salt or dissolving the salt formed in situ carrying out the displacement reaction with the amine displacing the 7 fluoro to give the final product. The present method provides better quality material with fewer purification procedures, step saving by being able. to carry out the reaction in one pot, and higher overall yields from the l alkyl or l cycloalkyl 6,7,8 trifluoro or 6,7 difluoro 1,4 dihydro 4 oxo 3 quinolinecarboxylic acid alkyl ester. Accordingly the present invention is related to an improved process for the preparation of a compound of the formulaEMI3.1 and the pharmaceutically acceptable acid addition or base salts thereof, wherein A is a substituted amino group X is hydrogen or fluorine, and 22 is alkyl of one to three carbon atoms or cycloalkyl of three to six carbons, which comprises a reacting 1.0 3.0 equivalents of an alkali metal nucleophile in an anhydrous inert solvent with a compound of the formulaEMI3.2 wherein R2 and X are as defined above and R1 is alkyl of one to three carbon atoms, at 0 1500C to form an alkali metal salt thereof and, if desired, isolating said salt b adding at least one equivalent of the appropriate amine to the isolated alkali metal salt in an aprotic solvent or in situ to the alkali metal salt solution containing an aprotic co solvent and heating the reaction mixture between 600 and 1200C until the reaction is complete c removing the solvent and treating the solids with water then with dilute acid to a pR of 5.5 7.5, and, if desired, converting by known means the resulting compound of formula I to a pharmaceutically acceptable acid addition or base salt thereof. The term alkylW in the present invention generally refers to a one to three carbon straight or branched hydrocarbon radical, such as, e.g., methyl, 1 or 2 propyl, and preferably ethyl. Wcycloalkylfl refers to a three to six membered saturated hydrocarbon ring such as, e.g., cyclobutyl, cyclopentyl, cyclohexyl, and preferably, cyclopropyl. By substituted amino group, there is included a mono or dialkylamino group of one to four carbon atoms, straight or branched, which alkyl portion may be optionally substituted by hydroxy, amino1 methylamino or dime thyl amino a five to six membered heterocyclic amino group, which ring may be interrupted by another heteroatom such as oxygen, sulfur, SO , S02 or N R3, and which ring may be substituted by alkyl of one to three carbon atoms, hydroxy, alkoxy of one to three carbon atoms, amino, methyl amino, ethylamino, aminomethyl, aminoethyl, alkylaminoethyl, or alkylaminomethyl, in which alkyl is one to three carbon atoms, and wherein R3 is hydrogen, alkyl of one to four carbon atoms or cycloalkyl having three to six carbon atoms. Also included as substituted amino is a group of the formulaEMI5.1 wherein R3 is as defined above, and n is 1, 2, 3, or 4 n is 1, 2, 3, or 4 wherein n n is a total of 2, 3, 4, or 5 n is 0, 1, or 2 n is 1 or 2 and n is 0, 1 or 2. Further there is included as substituted amino bicyclic amino group, such as those selected fromEMI5.2 in which R is hydrogen, alkyl of one to three carbon atoms, hydroxylalkyl of two or three carbon atoms, benzyl or p aminobenzyl, and R is hydrogen or alkanoyl of one to three carbon atoms Preferred amino groups are piperazine or Nmethylpiperazine a pyrrolidine of the formulaEMI6.1 in which n is O or 1 and R3 is hydrogen, methyl, ethyl, 1 or 2 propyl a spiroamine of the formulaEMI6.2 in which 23 is as defined above, or the above bridged amino groups in which R and R are also defined above. Particularly preferred 7 substituted amino lcyclopropyl 6,8 difluoro 1,4 dihydro 4 oxo 3 quinolinecarboxylic acids prepared by the improved process of the present invention are the following 7 E3 aminomethyl 1 pyrrolidinyll 1 cyclopropyl 6 r 8 difluoro 1,4 dihydro 4 oxo 3 quinolinecarboxylic acid l nyçlopropyl 7 t3 ethylaminoRmethyl l pyrro lidinyll 6,8 difluoro 1,4 dihydro 4 oxo 3 quinolinecarboxylic acid l ethyl 7 3 ethylamino methyl 1 pyrrolidinyl 6,8 difluoro 1,4 dihydro 4 oxo 3 quinolinecarboxylic acid 7 3 amino 1 pyrrolidinyl 1 cyclopropyl 6,8 difluoro 1,4 dihydro 4 oxo 3 quinolinecarboxylic acid l cyclopropyl 6,8 difluoro 1,4 dihydro 7 t3 methylamino methyl 1 pyrrolidinyl 4 oxo 3 quinolinecarboxylic acid l cyclopropyl 7 3 ethylamino l pyrrolidinyli 6,8 difluoro l,4 dihydro 4 oxo 3 quinolinecarboxylic acid l cyclopropyl 6,8 difluoro 1,4 dihydro 7 3 1 methylethyl aminomethyl l pyrrolidinyl 4 oXo 3 quinolinecarboxylic acid 7 2,5 diazabicyclo 2.2.21oct 2 yl 1 cyclopropyl 6, 8 difluoro 1,4 dihydro 4 oxo 3 quinolinecarboxylic acid 7 3 exo amino 8 azabicyclo 3.2.1 oct 8 yl 1 cyclopropyl 6,8 difluoro l,4 dihydro 4 oxo 3 quinolinecarboxylic acid 7 1,4 diazabicyclo 3.2.1 oct 4 yl 1 cyclopropyl 6,8 difluoro 1,4 dihydro 4 oxo 3 quinolinecarboxylic acid l cyclopropyl 6,8 difluoro 1,4 dihydro 7 5 methyl 2,5 diazabicyclof2.2.1 hept 2 yl 4 oxo 3 quinoline carboxylic acid 1 cyclopropyl 7 2,5 diazabicyclo 2.2.1 hept 2 yl 6,8 difluoro l,4 dihydro 4 oxo 3 quinolinecarboxylic acid, and the pharmaceutically acceptable acid addition or base salts thereof. As previously described, the compounds ofFormula I are useful as antibacterial agents against both gram positive and gram negative bacteria. An alkali metal nucleophile includes, for example, lithium, sodium or potassium hydroxide, halide, preferably iodide or bromide, or trimethyl 5 ilanoate. The improved process for the preparation of compounds of Formula I proceeds by way of example as follows To the appropriate alcohol is added 1.0 3.0 equivalents of alkali metal and the mixture is heated at reflux until formation of the metal alkoxide is complete. A preformed alkali metal alkoxide can be alternatively employed. At room temperature, 1.0 3.0 equivalents of water are added to generate the anhydrous alkali metal hydroxide. This reaction may be carried out in the same alcohol as solvent or in an inert solvent such as dioxane, tetrahydrofuran or diglyme and the like. The mixture is cooled to 0 200C and l cyclopropyl 6,7,8 trifluoro or 6,7 difluoro 1,4 dihydro 4 oxo 3 quinolinecarboxylic acid ethyl or methyl ester is added in the same alcohol as above, in an inert solvent, or neat. The mixture is gradually warmed to 25 800C.The reaction is continued until the disappearance of the starting ester is complete as determined by thin layer chromatography. The solvents are then removed and the a cyclopropyl 6,7,8 trifluoro 1,4 dihydro 4 oXo 3 quinolinecarboxylic acid alkali metal salt is isolated and used for the next step. Alternatively a co solvent such as N,N dimethylformamide, dimethylsulfoxide, acetonitrile, or other like aprotic solvent is added to the mixture in situ and the fixture used for the next step. Alternatively, other nucleophiles may be employed for the preparation of alkali salts directly from sters. These include the treatment of a l cyclopropyl6,7,8 trifluoro 1,4 dihydro 4 oxo 3 quinoline zcrnoxylnc acid alkyl ester with for example, lithium i dide in an inert solvent including pyridine, coLLiine, N,N dimethylformamide, or dimethylsulfoxide at temperatures of 100 150 C or with sodium or potassium trimethylsilanoate NaOSiMe3 or KOSiMe3 in ethereal or chlorocarbon solvents. As described above, salts prepared by these methods may be isolated by conventional methods or may be used in situ in the next step. To the l cyclopropyl 6,7,8 trifluoro or 6,7difluoro 1,4 dihydro 4 oxo 3 quinolinecarboxylic acid alkali metal salt suspended in the appropriate aprotic solvent i.e., N,N dimethylformamide, N,N dimethyl acetamide, dimethylsulfoxide, acetonitrile, etc. or mixture of these or to the co solvent mixture containing said alkali metal salt is added at least one, preferably 1.0 2.0 equivalents, of the appropriate amine to be coupled to the C7 position.The mixture is heated at 60 1200C until the reaction is complete as analyzed by thin layer chromatography.The solvents are removed and the residue is mixed with water. The solution or suspension which is between pH 8 11.5 is then acidified with dilute acid, e.g., 0.3 2 N hydrochloric or sulfuric acids or dilute acetic acid, to a pH 5.5 7.5. The solids are filtered, washed with inert solvents of choice and dried to give the desired 7 substituted amino l cyclopropyl 6,8 difluoro 1,4 dihydro 4 oxo 3 quinolinecarboxylic acid. The choice of alkyl ester, alkoxide, and alcohol solvent preferably conform for the particular synthetic sequence and preferably is made from an alkyl part having a carbon chain of one to three carbon atoms including straight and branched, such as methyl, ethyl, n propyl or isopropyl, corresponding alkoxides and alcohols. Alkali metals are preferably lithium, sodium, or potassium. The starting materials for the present invention are known, or if new, may be prepared from known starting materials. Thus, ethyl l cyclopropyl 6,7,8trifluoro 1,4 dihydro 4 oxo 3 quinolinecarboxylate is prepared as described in Belgian Patent 899,399 or DU3318145. Alternatively, it may be prepared by a series of reactions starting from 2,3,4,5 tetrafluoro benzoic acid. The sodium salt of 2,3,4,5 tetrafluoro benzoic acid is reacted with oxalyl chloride and the product condensed with diethyl malonate in the presence of magnesium turnings to afford after hydrolysis 2,3,4,5 tetrafluorobenzoylacetic acid, ethyl ester.This compound is, in turn, treated with triethylorthoformate and acetic anhydride, followed by cyclopropylamine to afford 2 2,3,4,5 tetrafluorobenzoyl 3 cyclopropylamino acrylic acid, ethyl ester, which is then ring closed to give the desired starting material. The corresponding methyl ester is prepared using dimethylmalonate in the sequence described above. The substituted amines used herein are either known compounds or they may be prepared from known starting materials by standard procedures or by variations thereof. For example, 3 pyrrolidine methanamines having the structural formula DEMI10.1 may be readily prepared from the known starting material methyl 5 oxo l phenylmethyl 3 pyrrolidinecarboxylate, A, 1J. Org. Chem., 26, 1519 1961 1 by the following reaction sequence.EMI11.1 The compound wherein R3 is hydrogen, namely 3 pyrrolidinemethanamine, has been reported in J.Org. Chem., 26, 4955 1961 . Thus Compound A may be converted to the corresponding amide B by treatment with R3 WH2 for example, a saturated solution of ethyl amine in an alkanol such as methyl alcohol may be utilized. The diamide B may next be reduced to produce the corresponding diamine C. This reduction may be carried out using lithium aluminum hydride, for example, in a convenient solvent such as tetrahydrofuran. Compound C may next be debenzylated, for example using hydrogen and 206 palladium on carbon catalyst to produce the diamine D. Alternatively, uhen R3 H in C, the primary amine function may be protected by acylation with an acyl halide such as acetyl chloride by well known procedures.The primary amine function of C may also be converted to a carbamate ester such as the ethyl ester by treatment with ethyl chloroformate in the presence of a base such as l,8 diazabicyclol5.4.03undec 7 ene in a convenient solvent such as methylene chloride. The benzyl group may next be removed, for example as described above for Compound C, thereby producingCompound D where R3 is CO2Et, which after conversion to a compound of the type VIa or Vib may be reacted with a compound having the structural formulaIV or V to thereby produce a corresponding compound having the structural formulae I or Ia. The C02Et group may be removed by standard procedures. Likewise spiroamino compounds may be readily prepared from the known starting material 3ethoxycarbonyl 5 oxo 3 pyrrolidineacetic acid ethyl ester IJ. Org. Chem., 46, 2757 1981 l by the following reaction sequence.EMI12.1 The compound 2,7 diazaspirol4.4 nonane where R3 is H is described in the above reference. Thus Compound E may be converted to the corresponding amideF by treatment with R3NH2, for example, methyl amine in water followed by benzylation which may be carried out with sodium hydride and benzyl chloride to give G.Reduction to the diamine H may be accomplished with lithium aluminum hydride. Subsequent debenzylation, for example, with hydrogen and 20 palladium on carbon catalyst produces the diamine J. The bridged amino compounds are either known compounds or they may be prepared from known starting materials by standard procedures or by variations thereof. For example, exo and endo 3 amino 8azabicyclo 3.2.13 octanes having the structural formula B and the acetyl derivatives EEMI13.1 may be readily prepared from the known starting material 8 phenylmetnyl 8 azabicyclo 3.2.l octan 3 one oxime, A, J. Heterocyclic Chem., 19, 485 1982 by the following reaction sequence. EMI14.1 The compounds prepared by the present invention are capable of further forming both pharmaceutically acceptable acid addition and or base salts. Base salts are formed with metals or amines, such as alkali and alkaline earth metals or organic amines. Examples of metals used as cations are sodium, potassium, magnesium, calcium, and the like. Also included are heavy metal salts such as for example silver, zinc, cobalt, and cerium. Such heavy metal salts are effective in the treatment of burns especially when applied to the affected surface of a burn victim either directly or in combination with a physiologically acceptable carrier such as a water dispersible, hydrophilic carrier. Examples of suitable amines are N,N dibenzylethylenediamine, chloroprocaine, choline, diethanolamine, ethylenediamine, N methylglucamine, and procaine. Pharmaceutically acceptable acid addition salts are formed with organic and inorganic acids. Examples of suitable acids for salt formation are hydrochloric, sulfuric, phosphoric, acetic, citric, oxalic, malonic, salicylic, maleic1 gluconicZ fumaric, succinic, ascorbic, maleic, methanesulfonic, and the like. The salts are prepared by contacting the free base form with a sufficient amount of the desired acid to produce either a mono or di, etc salt in the conventional manner. The free base forms may be regenerated by treating the salt form with a base.For example, dilute solutions of aqueous base may be utilized. Dilute aqueous sodium hydroxide, potassium carbonate, ammonia, and sodium bicarbonate solutions are suitable for this purpose. The free base forms differ from their respective salt forms somewhat in certain physical properties such as solubility in polar solvents, but the salts are otherwise equivalent to their respective free base forms for purposes of the invention. Use of excess base where R is hydrogen gives the corresponding basic salt. The compounds of the invention can exist in unsolvated as well as solvated forms, including hydrated forms. In general, the solvated former including hydrated forms and the like are equivalent to the unsolvated forms for purposes of the invention. Certain compounds of the invention may exist in optically active forms. The pure D isomer, pure L isomer as well as mixtures thereof including the racemic mixtures, are contemplated by the invention. Additional assymmetric carbon atoms may be present in a substituent such as an alkyl group. All such isomers as well as mixtures thereof are intended to be included in the invention. The following nonlimiting examples illustrate the inventors preferred methods for preparing the compounds of the invention. EXAMPLE 1 1 Cyclopropyl 6,7,8 trifluoro 1,4 dihydro 4 oxo 3 quinolinecarboxylic acid, sodium salt Method A To a mixture of Ill mg 0.0048 atom of sodium metal dissolved in 2 ml of ethanol and 15 ml of dioxane was added at 259C 87 mg 4.8 mmol of water. After 15 minutes, the mixture was cooled to 10 C and 1.0 g 3.2 mmol of l cyclopropyl 6,7,8 trifluoro 1,4 dihydro 4 oxo 3 quinolinecarboxylic acid ethyl ester was added slurried in 5 ml of dioxane.The mixture was stirred at 200C for 15 minutes and the temperature was gradually raised to 350C. Analysis by thin layer chromatography showed that the reaction was complete after two hours. The solvent was removed under vacuum to give 0.72 g 75 of the l cyclopropyl6,7,8 trifluoro 1,4 dihydro 4 oxo 3 quinolinecarboxylic acid, sodium salt, mp 2850C with gradual decomposition . Method B To 1.0 g 3.2 mmol of the l cyclopropyl 6,7,8 trifluoro 1,4 dihydro 4 oxo 3 quinoline carboxylic acid ethyl ester in chloroform was added 0.43 g 1.2 equivalents of sodium trimethylsilanoate.The reaction was refluxed for two hours and was concentrated. The solids were washed with ether and collected to give 0.98 g 100 of the title compound mp 290 C with gradual decomposition . EXAMPLE 2 lyclopropyl 6,7, 8 trifluoro l,4 dihydro 4 oxo 3 quinolinecarboxylic acid, potassium salt Method A To a mixture of 250 mg 0.0064 g atom of potassium metal dissolved in 5 ml of methanol and 25 ml of dioxane was added, at 250C, 116 mg 6.4 mmol of water. After 15 minutes, the mixture was cooled to 0 C and 0.95 g 3.2 mmol of l cyclopropyl 6,7,8 triEluoro 1,4 dihydro 4 oXo 3 quinolinecarboxylic acid methyl ester was added as a solid. The mixture was stirred at 0 C for i5 minutes and was gradually warmed to 350C. The reaction was complete after two hours. The solvent was removed under vacuum to give 0.78 g 75 of the l cyclopropyl Ï,7,8 trifluoro 1,4 dihydro 4 oxo 3 quinoline carboxylic acid, potassium salt, mp 2750C with gradual decomposition . Method B To 1.0 g 3.2 mmol of l cyclopropyl 6,7,8 trifluoro l,4 dihydro 4 oxo 3 guinoline carboxylic acid ethyl ester in 20 ml of dichioromethane was added 0.48 g 3.7 mmol of potassium trimethylsilanoate. After 2.5 hours at reflux, an additional 0.48 g of potassium trimethylsilanoate was added.The reaction was continued an additional two hours.The precipitate was filtered and washed with ether to give 0.96 g 93 of the crude title compound, mp 3000C. EXAMPLE 3Preparation of 1 cyclopropyl 7 3 ethylamino methyl l pyrrolidinyl 6,8 diEluoro 1,4 dihydro 4 axo 3 quinolinecarboxylic acid Method A To 150 mg 0.47 imnol of the l cyclopropyl 6, 7, 8 trifluoro l, 4 dihydro 4rxo 3quinolinecarboxylic, sodium salt suspended in 15 ml of dry acetonitrile was added 76 mg 1.2 equivalents of N ethyl 3 pyrrolidinemethanamine in 3.5 ml of additional acetonitrile. The reaction was refluxed for one hour and 5 ml of N,N dimethylformamide was added. The reaction was refluxed an additional 8.5 hours and was concentrated. The residue was mixed with water to give a light suspension at pH 11.0. The mixture was treated with dilute hydrochloric acid to a pH 6.8.The thick solids were filtered, washed with ether, and dried to give 170 mg 88 of the 1 cyclopropyl 7 3 ethylamino methyl 1 pyrrolidinyl 6,8 difluoro 1,4 dihydro 4 oxo 3 quinolinecarboxylic acid,mp 256 258 C. Using the identical conditions with the l cyclopropyl 6,7,8trifluoro 1,4 dihydro 4 oxo 3 quinolinecarboxylic acid potassium salt gave 149 mg 81 of the title compound, mp 256 258 C. Method B Alternatively the following procedure may be employed. To a mixture of 100 mg 0.0043 g atom of sodium metal dissolved in 2 ml of methanol and 12 ml of dioxane was added, at 250C, 77 mg 1.0 equivalent of water. After 15 minutes 0.95 g 3.2 mmol of 1 cyclopropyl 6,7,8 trifluoro 1,4 dihydro 4 oxo 3 quinolinecarboxylic acid, methyl ester was added as a dry powder. The mixture was stirred for one hour at 200C and gradually warmed to 30 C. After ten hours, the mixture was treated with 0.49 g 1.2 equivalents of N ethyl 3pyrrolidinemethanamine in 25 ml of acetonitrile. The mixture was refluxed for 24 hours. The solvents were removed, under vacuum, and the solids mixed with water. The pH was adjusted to 7.0 and the solids collected, washed with ether and dried to give 0.90 g 72 of the title compound, mp 256 2580C. EXAMPLE 4Preparation of 7 3 amino l pyrrolidinyl 1 cyclopropyl 6, 8 difluoro l, 4 dihydro 3 quinolinecarboxylic acid To 300 mg 0.98 mmol of the l cyclopropyl 6,7,8 triEluoro 1,4 dihydro 4 oxo 3 quinolinecarboxylic acid, sodium salt, suspended in 20 ml of acetonitrile was added 236 mg 1.3 equivalents of 3 butoxycarbonylaminopyrrolidine in 5 ml of N,N dimethylformamide. The mixture was heated at 900C for nine hours. It was concentrated and the residue mixed with water. The mixture was acidified with 2N hydrochloric acid and refluxed for two hours. The pH was adjusted to pH of 5.5 and the solids were filtered, washed with ether and dried to give 300 mg 878 of the title compound, mp 290 2920. EXAMPLE 5 1 Cyclopropyl 7 2,5 diazabicyclo 2.2.1 hept 2 yl 6,8 diEluoro 1,4 dinydro 4 oxo 3 quinolinecarboxylic acid To 150 mg 0.47 mmol of the l cyciopropyl 6,7,8 trifluoro 1,4 dihydro 4 oxo 3 quinolinecarboxylic acid sodium salt, suspended in 15 ml of acetonitrile was added 162 mg 1.3 equivalents of 2,5 diazabicyclo 2.2.1 heptane dihydrobromide and 186 mg 2.0 equivalents of 1,8 diazabicyclo 5.4.0 undec 7 ene in 5 ml of N,N dimethylformamide. The mixture was heated for ten hours at 1000C. It was concentrated and the residue mixed with water. The mixture was acidified with dilute acid to pE 7.0 and the solids were isolated, washed with ether and dried to give 149 mg 88 of the title compound, 25O0C mp.