# Recombinant DNA expression vectors and DNA compounds

## Abstract
The present invention comprises novel DNA com pounds that encode isopenicillin N synthetase and also comprises related methods, transformants, and polypeptides. The novel isopenicillin N synthetase encoding DNA, together with its associated transcriptional and translational activating sequence, was isolated from

## Claims
1. A DNA compound which encodes isopenicillin N synthetase.

## Description
The present invention relates to a DNA sequence encoding isopenicillin N synthetase activity. Isopeni cillin N synthetase catalyzes the reaction in which isopenicillin N is formed from δ L α aminoadipyl L cysteinyl D valine. This reaction is a critical step in the biosynthesis of important antibiotics such as peni cillins from The novel DNA sequence which encodes the iso penicillin N synthetase activity was isolated from The The The DNA compounds encoding isopenicillin N syn thetase are readily modified to construct expression vectors which increase the efficiency and yield of fer mentations involving other organisms, such as The DNA compounds of the present invention are derived from genomic DNA of The isopenicillin N synthetase encoding DNA compounds of the present invention were derived from The present invention also comprises the regulatory signals of the IPS gene that are located at the 3 end of the coding strand of the coding region of the IPS gene. These 3 regulatory sequences encode the transcription termination and mRNA polyadenylation and processing signals of the IPS gene. The presence of these signals in the proper position, which is at the 3 end of the coding strand of the coding region of the gene to be expressed, in an expression vector enhances expression of the desired product encoded by the vector in The following section provides a more detailed description of the present invention. For purposes of clarity and as an aid in the understanding of the pres ent invention, as disclosed and claimed herein, the following items are defined below. Antibiotic a substance produced by a microorganism which, either naturally or with limited chemical modi fication, will inhibit the growth of or kill another microorganism or eukaryotic cell. Antibiotic Biosynthetic Gene a DNA segment that encodes an enzymatic activity which is necessary for an enzymatic reaction in the process of converting primary metabolites into antibiotics. Antibiotic Producing Organism any organism, including, but not limited to, The restriction site and function maps pre sented in Figures 1 7 are approximate representations of the recombinant DNA vectors discussed herein. The spacing of restriction sites on the map is proportional to the actual spacing of the restriction sites on the vector, but observed restriction site distances may vary somewhat from calculated map distances. The restriction site information is not exhaustive therefore, there may be more restriction sites of a given type on the vector than actually shown on the map. The present invention comprises DNA compounds and recombinant DNA cloning and expression vectors which encode isopenicillin N synthetase activity. A particular DNA sequence encoding isopenicillin N synthetase activity is shown below. In the depiction, only the sense or coding strand of the double stranded DNA molecule is shown, and the DNA is depicted from left to right in the 5 3 orientation. The nucleotide sequence is numbered the numbers appear above the DNA sequence. Immediately below each line of DNA sequence, the amino acid residue sequence of the isopenicillin N synthetase is listed from left to right in the amino terminus carboxy terminus direction. Each amino acid residue appears below the DNA which encodes it. The amino acid residue sequence is numbered the numbers appear below the amino acid residue sequence. wherein, A is deoxyadenyl, G is deoxyguanyl, C is deoxy cytidyl, T is thymidyl, ALA is an alanine residue, ARG is an arginine residue, ASN is an asparagine residue, ASP is an aspartic acid residue, CYS is a cysteine residue, GLN is a glutamine residue, GLU is a glutamic acid residue, GLY is a glycine residue, HIS is a histi dine residue, ILE is an isoleucine residue, LEU is a leucine residue, LYS is a lysine residue, MET is a methionine residue, PHE is a phenylalanine residue, PRO is a proline residue, SER is a serine residue, THR is a threonine residue, TRP is a tryptophan residue, TYR is a tyrosine residue, and VAL is a valine residue. The DNA sequence shown above is 63 in G and C content and encodes a polypeptide, isopenicillin N synthetase, with a calculated molecular weight of 38,476 daltons and an observed molecular weight of about 40,000 daltons. Those skilled in the art will recognize that the DNA sequence depicted above is an important part of the present invention. The above sequence can be con ventionally synthesized by the modified phosphotriester method using fully protected deoxyribonucleotide build ing blocks. Such synthetic methods are well known in the art and can be carried out in substantial accordance with the procedure of Itakura Due to the degenerate nature of the genetic code, which results from there being more than one codon for most of the amino acid residues and stop signal, the amino acid residue sequence of isopenicillin N synthetase depicted above can be encoded by a multitude of different DNA sequences. Because these alternate DNA sequences would encode the same amino acid residue sequence of the present invention, the present invention further com prises these alternate sequences. In addition, there could be genetic variants of the isopenicillin N synthetase encoding DNA of the present invention. These genetic variants would share substantial DNA and amino acid residue sequence homology with the compounds of the present invention and would have similar, if not identical, activity, but would differ somewhat from the actual compounds of the present invention. These genetic variants are also equivalent to the compounds of the present invention. The isopenicillin N synthetase activity encoding DNA compounds of the present invention were isolated from a strain of After the vectors that encoded isopenicillin N synthetase were identified, one particular isopenicillin N synthetase encoding vector was modified so as to delete most of the Plasmid pIT335 can be isolated from Plasmid pCZ106 comprises a runaway replicon, the Plasmid pIT337 comprises the runaway replicon and At temperatures of about 37 C, Plasmid pIT337 provides an efficient means of producing large amounts of isopenicillin N synthetase in Isopenicillin N synthetase can be used to pro duce isopenicillin N from δ L α aminoadipyl L cysteinyl D valine in a cell free system as described in Example 3. Isopenicillin N is not only a useful antibiotic, but also is the starting material for the production of such important antibiotics as penicillin N, cephalexin, and other cephalosporins see U.S. Patent No. 4,307,192 . Perhaps the most important use of isopenicillin N syn thetase is the use of the enzyme to condense tripeptides other than δ L α aminoadipyl L cysteinyl D valine into novel β lactam derivatives. Cell free extracts of penicillin producing organisms can be used to synthesize unnatural not produced in nature β lactams. The The search for unnatural tripeptides that will serve as substrates for isopenicillin N synthetase can be complemented by a search for mutant isopenicillin N synthetases that will accept unnatural tripeptides as substrate. The present invention provides the starting material for such a search for a mutant isopenicillin N synthetase. The present invention is not limited to the particular vectors exemplified herein. Instead, the present invention comprises DNA compounds that encode isopenicillin N synthetase activity. The DNA compounds of the present invention can be used to construct expres sion vectors that drive expression of isopenicillin N synthetase in any host cell in which the expression vector replicates or integrates and in which the tran scriptional and translational activating sequence used to express the isopenicillin N synthetase activity functions. Therefore, although the The present invention is not limited to a particular transcriptional and translational activating sequence to drive expression of the isopenicillin N synthetase activity encoding DNA. The present invention comprises the use of any transcriptional and transla tional activating sequence that functions in In addition to the various A variety of organisms produce β lactam anti biotics. The following Table presents a non comprehensive list of β lactam antibiotic producing organisms. Many of the foregoing β lactam antibiotic producing organisms are used in the pharmaceutical industry for purposes of antibiotic production. The antibiotic producing ability of these organisms can be increased and made more efficient by increasing the intracellular concentration of the antibiotic biosyn thetic enzymes during the fermentation. The isopeni cillin N synthetase activity encoding DNA compounds of the present invention can be used to construct expres sion vectors that, when transformed into the appropriate host cell, increase the intracellular concentration of isopenicillin N synthetase activity of the transformed host cell and thereby increase the antibiotic producing ability and efficiency of that cell, provided that the host cell produces a β lactam antibiotic via an inter mediate reaction involving isopenicillin N synthetase activity. A vector that will increase the intracellular concentration of isopenicillin N synthetase activity of a given host cell into which the vector is transformed requires the following elements 1 an isopenicillin N synthetase activity encoding DNA compound of the present invention 2 a transcriptional and translational activat ing sequence that not only functions in the host cell to be transformed, but also is positioned in the correct orientation and position to drive expression of the iso penicillin N synthetase activity encoding DNA and 3 replication or integration functions that provide for maintenance of the vector in the host cell. Of course, the above described vector could also comprise an antibiotic resistance conferring gene or some other element that provides a means of selecting for host cells which contain the vector, but such selectable elements may neither be necessary nor desired when the vector integrates into the chromosomal DNA of the host cell. Plasmid pPS20 is an expression vector of the present invention that exemplifies the type of vector designed to increase the intracellular concentration of isopenicillin N synthetase activity in a β lactam anti biotic producing host cell. Plasmid pPS20 was con structed by inserting the 2.7 kb The plasmid pIT221 starting material used in the construction of plasmids pPS20 and pPS20.1 was dis closed and claimed in European Patent Application No. 85306765.0 Publication No. 0177243 filed September 24 1985. Construction Flow Sheets I VI and Examples 1 6 on Pages 29 57 of European Patent Application Serial No. 85306765.0 Publication No. 0177243 describe the construction of plasmid pIT221 and are incorporated herein by reference. A restriction site and function map of plasmid pIT221 is presented in Fig. 4 of the accompanying drawings. The 2.7 kb Plasmid pPS20 comprises the PGK HmR gene, and Because plasmid pPS20 comprises almost 3 kb of the genomic DNA which was located upstream of the iso penicillin N synthetase encoding DNA in the The Once the As described above, plasmid pPS20 and one of the plasmids from which plasmid pPS20 was derived, pIT335, comprise a There is sequence data on the The Of course, the Klenow treated Plasmid pPS21A is another vector of the present invention that utilizes the transcriptional and transla tional activating sequence of the IPS gene to drive expression of a hygromycin resistance conferring gene in Plasmid pPS23 was digested with restriction enzyme Several other useful plasmids were also pro duced in the same ligation that produced plasmid pPS21A. Plasmid pPS22 comprises the same sequences as plasmid pPS21A, but the Another plasmid produced in this ligation has utility both as a negative control in Circularization of the 7.6 kb Yet other useful plasmids were produced in the same ligation that produced plasmid pPS21A. These plasmids, designated plasmids pPS25 and pPS25.1, were produced by the ligation of the two Plasmid pPS25.1 only differs from plasmid pPS25 with respect to the orientation of the 0.23 kb Other useful plasmids of the present invention that confer hygromycin resistance to Yet another useful derivative was constructed using plasmid pPS21A as starting material. The 3.45 kb European Patent Application No. 85306765.0 des cribes the construction of a vector similar to plasmid pIT221, a plasmid which, as stated above, is also descri bed and disclosed in the same application, but this similar vector further comprises Plasmid pPS6 contains an 3.7 kb The plasmid vectors of the present invention that utilize the transcription and translation activating sequence of the The The present invention results from the cloning of an intact, functional, One vector, designated plasmid pPS27, has been constructed that contains the IPS transcription and translation activating sequence, followed by the hygro mycin resistance conferring gene, followed by the transcription termination and mRNA polyadenylation and processing signals of the IPS gene. To construct plasmid pPS27, the 1.4 kb Plasmid pIT336 was digested with restriction enzyme Plasmid pPS35 was then digested with restric tion enzyme A useful derivative of plasmid pPS27 can be constructed by isolating the 2.3 kb Plasmid pIT336 can be used as starting mate rial to construct a plasmid that will integrate into the The present invention is a pioneering inven tion in that it represents the first cloning and genetic engineering of a DNA sequence that encodes the enzymatic activity, often called a cyclase activity, necessary to catalyze condensation of a tripeptide substrate into a substituted β lactam. Many organisms other than The present invention provides both an amino acid and a DNA sequence for a cyclase enzyme, specifi cally the isopenicillin N synthetase of The following Examples are provided to further illustrate and exemplify the present invention but are in no way intended to limit the scope of the present invention. A lyophil of One liter of L broth 10 g tryptone, 10 g NaCl, and 5 g yeast extract per liter containing 50 µg ml ampicillin was inoculated with a culture of The culture prepared in Example 1A was centri fuged in a Sorvall GSA rotor DuPont Co., Instrument Products, Biomedical Division, Newtown, CN 06470 at 6000 rpm for 5 minutes at 4 C. The resulting superna tant was discarded, and the cell pellet was washed in 40 ml of TES buffer 10 mM Tris HCl, pH 7.5 10 mM NaCl and 1 mM EDTA and then repelleted. After discarding the supernatant again, the cell pellet was frozen in a dry ice ethanol bath and then thawed. The thawed cell pellet was resuspended in 10 ml of a solution of 25 sucrose and 50 mM EDTA. After adding and mixing 1 ml of a 5 mg ml lysozyme solution 3 ml of 0.25 M EDTA, pH 8.0 and 100 µl of 10 mg ml RNAse A, the solution was incubated on ice for 15 minutes. Three ml of lysing solution prepared by mixing 3 ml 10 Triton X 100 75 ml 0.25 M EDTA, pH 8.0 15 ml of 1 M Tris HCl, pH 8.0 and 7 ml of water were added to the lysozyme treated cells, mixed, and the resulting solution incubated on ice for another 15 minutes. The lysed cells were frozen in a dry ice ethanol bath and then thawed. The cellular debris was removed from the solu tion by centrifugation at 25,000 rpm for 40 minutes in an SW27 rotor Beckman, 7360 N. Lincoln Ave., Lincoln wood, IL 60646 and by extraction with buffered phenol. After adding 30.44 g of CsCl and l ml of a 5 mg ml ethidium bromide solution, the solution volume was adjusted to 40 ml and decanted into a VTi50 ultra centrifuge tube Beckman . After sealing the tube, the solution was centrifuged in a VTi50 rotor at 42,000 rpm for 16 hours. The resulting plasmid band, visualized with ultraviolet light, was isolated and then placed in a Ti75 tube and rotor Beckman and centrifuged at 50,000 rpm for 16 hours. Any necessary volume adjust ments were made using TES containing 0.761 g ml CsCl. The plasmid band was again isolated, extracted with salt saturated isopropanol to remove the ethidium bromide, and diluted 1 3 with TES buffer. Two volumes of ethanol were then added to the solution, followed by incubation overnight at 20 C. The plasmid DNA was pelleted by centrifuging the solution in an SS34 rotor Sorvall for 15 minutes at 10,000 rpm. The 1 mg of plasmid pIT335 DNA obtained by this procedure was suspended in 1 ml of TE buffer 10 mM Tris HCl, pH 8.0 and 1 mM EDTA and stored at 20 C. A restriction site and function map of plasmid pIT335 is presented in Figure 1 of the accompanying drawings. A lyophil of a culture of After the 2 to 6 hour incubation at 37 C, the cells are collected, and the plasmid pCZ106 DNA is iso lated in substantial accordance with the procedure of Example 1B. About 5 mg of plasmid pCZ106 DNA is obtained and suspended in 5 ml of TE buffer. A restric tion site and function map of plasmid pCZ106 is provided in Figure 2 of the accompanying drawings. Approximately 25 µg, corresponding to 25 µl, of the plasmid pCZ106 DNA prepared in Example 2A were added to and mixed with 10 µl of 10X Unless otherwise noted, restriction and ligation enzymes were obtained from New England Biolabs, 32 Tozer Road, Beverly, MA 01915. Unit definitions herein correspond to the particular manufacturer s unit definitions. The The volume of the high salt DNA solution was adjusted so that the NaCl concentration was 0.25 M, and then three volumes of cold, absolute ethanol were added. The resulting solutions were mixed and placed at 70 C for 10 20 minutes. After chilling, the solutions were centrifuged at 15,000 rpm for 15 minutes. After another precipitation to remove residual salt, the DNA pellets were rinsed with ethanol dried, resuspended in 20 µl of TE buffer, and constituted 5.0 µg each of the desired 1.6 kb Approximately 25 µg, corresponding to 25 µl, of the plasmid pIT335 DNA prepared in Example 1B were digested with restriction enzymes Five µl of the 1.6 kb A 50 ml culture of Two hundred µl of this cell suspension were mixed with the ligated DNA prepared in Example 2D and incubated on ice for 20 minutes, and then the cells were collected by centrifugation. The cell pellet was resus pended in 1 ml of L broth, and the suspension was incu bated at 25 C for one hour. Aliquots of the cell mixture were plated on L agar L broth with 15 g l agar plates containing 50 µg ml kanamycin, and the plates were incu bated at 25 C. Several isolates of the After the six hour, 37 C incubation, one ml of each culture was collected, and the cells were pelleted by centrifugation. The cell pellets were individually washed with 1 ml of 10 mM NaCl and then resuspended in 1.0 ml of IPS extraction buffer 0.05 M Tris HCl, pH 8.0 0.01 M KCl and 0.01 M MgSO₄ . The cells were sonicated by six, five second bursts of sonication delivered by a Sonifier Cell Disruptor, Model W185, Heat Systems Ultrasonics, Inc., Plainview, Long Island, NY, using the micro tip. The time between bursts of sonication was 60 seconds, and the mixture was kept in an ice ethanol bath during the procedure. After sonication, the cell mixture was centrifuged to remove debris and then used directly in the assay. The following assay procedure is derived from the procedure of Shen The isopenicillin N synthetase assay reaction was carried out in a total volume of 500 µl. To start the reaction, 1.0 ml of a solution of 1.4 mM δ L α aminoadipyl L cysteinyl D valine and 3.75 mM DTT was allowed to react at room temperature for 30 60 minutes to reduce any dimeric tripeptide to the monomeric form. Fifty µl of each of the following stock solutions were aliquoted into each assay tube sterile, glass, dispos able 13 x 100 mm tubes 500 mM Tris HCl, pH 7.4 100 mM KCl 100 mM MgSO₄ 2.0 mM FeSO₄ and 6.7 mM ascorbic acid. Next, varying amounts of extract, diluted with water to a volume of 150 µl, were added. About 100 µl aliquots of the tripeptide solution were then added to each tube the addition of the tripeptide starts the reaction. Each tube was vortexed upon addition of the substrate. The reaction mixture vessels were then placed in a gyrotory shaker bath at 250 rpm, with an incubation temperature of 25 C. The reaction time was 45 minutes. After 45 minutes of reaction, 2 samples of 100 µl each were withdrawn and dispensed into wells in the bioassay plates, and 100 units of penicillinase A were added to the remainder of the sample. The peni cillinase A was obtained from Riker s Laboratories, Inc. the enzyme is sold in vials of 100,000 units, which were rehydrated to 5.0 mls with H₂O. Five µl 100 units of the rehydrated pencillinase A were added to each reaction mixture, allowed to react for 5 minutes at room temperature, and then 100 µl of each penicillinase A treated extract were dispensed into the wells of a bioassay plate. This penicillinase A treatment is done to check that the zones on the bioassay plate are due to the presence of a penicillin rather than a cephalosporin or other contaminant. The penicillin N standard curve was prepared by adding 0.5, 1.0, 2.0, 5.0, 10.0, and 20.0 µg of peni cillin N to bioassay wells. The penicillinase A activity was also checked by adding 5 µl of the enzyme preparation to 200 µl of 0.2 µg ml penicillin N. The bioassay plates were composed of K131 nutrient agar, which is prepared by dissolving 30.5 g BBL Antibiotic Medium 11 Becton Dickinson Company, Cockeysville, MD in 1 liter of deionized water, bring ing the solution to a boil, cooling to 70 C, and then autoclaving 35 minutes at 121 C and 15 psi. The plates were seeded with 4 mls of fresh overnight culture of After the plates were prepared and the samples were dispensed into the wells, the plates were placed in a 37 C incubator for 18 hours. The assay results are determined by measuring the diameter of the cleared areas around each sample well, which result from the The results of the assay are tabulated below. Although the linearity of the assay, as mea sured by zone size, drops off markedly when zone size increases above 21 mm, the results of the assay clearly indicate that the The The greater stability probably results from a difference in processing of the enzyme between In view of the greater stability and different amino acid residue sequence of the Five µl of the plasmid pIT335 DNA prepared in Example 1B, which correspond to 5 µg of plasmid DNA, were added to and mixed with 5 µl of 10X European Patent Application No. 85306765.0 discloses vectors and conditions for transforming Plasmid pIT221 was isolated from About 5 µg of the desired 2.7 kb About 1 µl of the The 2.7 kb A 50 ml culture of Two hundred µl of this cell suspension were mixed with the ligated DNA prepared in Example 4C and incubated on ice for 20 minutes. The mixture was then incubated at 40 C for 2 minutes, followed by a 10 minute incubation at room temperature. Three ml of L broth were added to the cell mixture, and then the cells were incubated in an air shaker at 37 C for two hours. Aliquots of the cell mixture were plated on L agar L broth with 15 g l agar plates containing 100 µg ml ampicillin, and the plates were then incubated at 37 C. Approximately 50 µl, corresponding to 50 µg, of the plasmid pIT335 DNA prepared in Example 1 were added to and mixed with 10 µl 10X The The One µg of plasmid pIT221 DNA was dissolved in five µl of 10X The Fifty µg of plasmid pPS19 DNA were digested with restriction enzyme Two µl of the 0.85 kb fragment prepared in Example 5A were ligated to two µl of the 7.7 kb fragment prepared in Example 5C in 30 µl of 1X ligation buffer containing 500 units of T4 DNA ligase. The ligation reaction was incubated at 12 C for 16 hours, and the ligated DNA constituted the desired plasmid pPS21 DNA. The ligated DNA prepared in Example 5D was used to transform U.S. Patent Application Serial No. 654,919, filed 9 27 84, discloses and claims the following transformation procedure. The preferred To genetically transform An ampoule of spores approximately 10⁹ conidia in 1.5 ml of preservation menstrum 5 lactose, 10 glycerol, and 0.1 Tween 80 , either lyophilized or taken from liquid nitrogen storage and thawed at room temperature, are diluted in 5 ml of sterile saline. About 0.1 ml of this suspension is used to inoculate each of approximately 50 slants containing 20 ml of Trypticase Soy Agar BBL , Division of Becton, Dickinson Company, Cockeysville, Maryland 21030 medium. Before inoculation, the medium is allowed to dry until surface moisture is no longer visible. Inoculated slants are incubated for about four days at 25 C. About 10 ml of preservation menstrum are added to the mycelial growth which covers the surface of the medium in each slant. The slants are vortexed to suspend the conidia, and the conidial suspension from each slant is pooled and 10 ml aliquots frozen at 80 C. The frozen conidial suspen sion slowly loses viability and should not be used after about three months of storage at 80 C. Approximately 106 ml of aqueous medium in a 500 ml shake flask are inoculated with cells from the 10 ml of frozen conidial suspension prepared in Example 6C. Cells are obtained by centrifugation 10 min X 2600 rpm , and then directly suspended in the aqueous culture medium . Decantation of the supernatant is necessary prior to suspension, because the lactose and glycerol adversely affect the growth of cells. The flask contain ing the suspended cells is placed on a gyrotory water bath shaker and incubated at 29 30 C for 24 hours at 285 rpm with a 1 inch throw. The recommended temperature of 29 30 C in the culturing step is especially preferred for preparing transformable protoplasts, but lower temperatures of about 25 C are also suitable. Those familiar with the art will recognize that the 29 30 C is different from the temperature 25 C preferred for culturing Aqueous culture medium was prepared as follows one hundred ml of solution A are dispensed into a 500 ml shake flask the flask is covered with a commercial closure and is autoclaved at 121 C for 20 minutes. Two ml of solution B and 4 ml of solution C are then added to solution A to prepare the aqueous culture medium. Cells from a 24 hour culture are harvested by suction filtration Whatman 1 paper in a Buchner funnel and suspended in McIlvaine s Buffer, pH 7.1, 0.1 M citric acid and 0.2 M dibasic sodium phosphate to which dithiothreitol has been added to a concentration of 0.01 M. Sufficient buffer is added to obtain a final cell concentration of 1 g weighed after suction filtration of cell mass per 20 ml of buffer. The cell suspension is placed on a gyrotory water bath shaker in a 50 ml shake flask and incubated at 29 30 C for 90 minutes at 140 rpm with 1 inch throw. Dithiothreitol treated cells are washed with water and then resuspended in enzyme solution 25 mg ml of beta glucuronidase from Sigma Chemical Company, in McIlvaine s buffer, pH 6.35, and supplemented with 0.8 M NaCl and 0.02 M MgSO₄ . The final cell concentration is 1 g of treated cell mass per 10 ml of enzyme solution. The cell suspension is then placed on a gyrotory water bath shaker at 29 30 C for 3 hours at 120 rpm with a 1 inch throw. The suspen sion of protoplasts is diluted with 4 volumes of washing solution 0.8 M NaCl and 0.02 M MgSO₄ and then gravity filtered through two layers of paper towels. The fil trate containing the protoplasts is centrifuged at room temperature for 5 minutes at 2600 rpm. The supernatant is decanted, and the pellet of protoplasts is suspended in 10 ml of washing solution. After repeating the wash ing procedure twice, the protoplasts are resuspended in sufficient 0.8 M NaCl to achieve a concentration of 2 to 3 x 10⁸ protoplasts per ml, by hemacytometer count. For each plasmid to be transformed, a 1 ml suspension of About 5 µg of plasmid pUC8 obtained from Pharmacia P L Biochemicals were dissolved in 5 µl of 10X About 10 µg of plasmid pIT335 were dissolved in 5 µl of 10X The single strands of the following linker were synthesized using an automated DNA synthesizer One µl of the A 50 ml culture of Two hundred µl of this cell suspension were mixed with the ligated DNA prepared above and incubated on ice for 20 minutes. At the end of this period, the cells were placed in a water bath at 42 C for 2 minutes and then returned to the ice for an additional 10 minutes. The cells were collected by centrifugation and resus pended in one ml of L broth and incubated at 37 C for 2 hours. Aliquots of the cell mixture were plated on L agar L broth with 15 grams per liter agar plates containing 100 µg ampicillin ml, 40 µg X gal ml, and 40 µg IPTG ml. The plates were incubated at 37 C over night. Colonies that contain a plasmid without an insert, such as About 50 µg of plasmid pPS23 DNA were dissolved in 15 µl of 10X About 5 µg of plasmid pPS19 DNA were dissolved in 10 µl 10X About 1 µl of the 0.86 kb The ligated DNA was used to transform Individual colonies were picked from the trans formation plates, cultured, and used to prepare plasmid DNA. The plasmid DNA was analyzed by restriction enzyme analysis. The following chart demonstrates the appro priate restriction enzyme digests that can be used to distinguish the plasmids. Plasmids pPS21A, pPS25.1, and pPS25 were used to transform About 20 µl of plasmid pPS21A DNA were dis solved in 10 µl 10X The 6.6 kb Plasmids pPS28 and pPS29 were used to trans form About 20 µg of plasmid pPS21A were dissolved in 10 µl 10X About 2 µl of the 3.45 kb Plasmids pPS26 and pPS26.1 were used to trans form Plasmid pPS6 is disclosed and claimed in Example 13, pages 72 75, of U.S. Patent Application 654,919, attorney docket number X 6570, filed 9 27 85, incorporated herein by reference. About 10 µg of plasmid pPS6 were dissolved in 20 µl 10X The About 1 µg of plasmid pPS21A DNA was dissolved in 2 µl 10X About 2 µl of the 3.7 kb The ligated DNA was used to transform Plasmids pPS30 and pPS30.1 were also used to transform Plasmids pPS31 and pPS31.1 were constructed and then transformed into About 1 µg of plasmid pUC8 was dissolved in 2 µl 10X About 10 µg of plasmid pIT335 were dissolved in 10 µl 10X The 5 µl of About 2 µg of plasmid pIT336 were dissolved in 2 µl 10X About 10 µl of 10X ligase buffer and 4 µl of T4 DNA ligase were added to the solution of About 2 µg of plasmid pPS35 were dissolved in 2 µl 10X About 2 µl of the 2.3 kb The ampicillin resistant transformants were cultured and used to prepare plasmid DNA, which was analyzed by restriction enzyme analysis to identify the desired Plasmid pPS27 transforms