# NOVEL AMINO ACID DERIVATIVES

## Abstract
Novel amino acid derivatives useful as a therapeutic agent are disclosed. These amino acid derivatives and the pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof have a human renin inhibitory effect when administered orally and are useful for treatment of hypertension, especially renin associated hypertension.

## Claims
1. An amino acid derivative represented by formula I wherein R¹ represents a monoalkylamino group having 1 to 3 carbon atoms, a dialkylamino group having 2 to 6 carbon atoms, or in which Y represents a chemical bond, an oxygen atom or a methylene group, His represents an L histidyl group, n represents 0 or 1, X represents an oxygen atom or NH , R² represents a straigh or branched chain alkyl group having 1 to 7 carbon atoms or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof.

## Description
This invention relates to novel amino acid derivatives useful as a therapeutic agent. More particularly, this invention relates to amino acid derivatives which have a human renin inhibitory effect when administered orally, and thus which are useful for treatment of hypertension, especially renin associated hypertension. Renin is a proteolytic enzyme having a molecular weight of about 40,000, produced and secreted by juxtaglomerular cells in the kidney. This acts on the plasma renin substrate, angiotensinogen, to yield decapeptide angiotensin I which is converted into angiotensin II by an angiotensin I converting enzyme. It is well known that angiotensin II contracts the vascular smooth muscle and acts on the adrenal cortex to secrete the aldosterone which regulates salts and water balance. Accordingly, the renin angiotensin system plays an important role in hypertension. In fact, a specific inhibtor of angiotensin I converting enzyme has been investigated and developed as a practical medicament for hypertension. Thus, an effective inhibitor of renin has long been sought as an agent for treatment of hypertension, especially renin associated hypertension. As a result, it has been found that certain peptides show a renin inhibitory effect, as described in Japanese Patent Application OPI Nos. 155345 84, 227851 84 and 110661 84, The term OPI as used herein refers to an unexamined Japanese patent application Japanese Patent Publication No. 39149 83, Biochemical and Biophysical Research Communications, Vol. 118, pages 929 933, 1984 and European Patent Application Nos. 77029 A₂ , 77028 A₂ and 81783 A₂ . Of these prior art references, Japanese Patent Application OPI No. 155345 84 discloses peptides represented by the following formula Japanese Patent Application OPI No. 227851 84 also discloses peptides represented by the following formula The noted Biochemical and Biophysical Research Communications article discloses a peptide represented by the formula Japanese Patent Publication No. 39149 83 discloses peptides represented by the following formula On the other hand, the peptides disclosed in the above European Patent Applications are polypeptides and have difficulties in their preparation and purification. Furthermore, they lose their pharmacological effects when administered orally similar to the peptides disclosed in the Japanese Patent Publication No. 39149 83, and their utility is thus limited. Thus, development of renin inhibitors which can display a sufficient therapeutic effect by oral administration has long be desired. Accordingly, an object of this invention is to provide new amino acid derivatives which exhibit a specific renin inhibitory effect when administered orally to mammalia including humans. Another object of this invention is to provide new amino acid derivatives and pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof. A further object of this invention is to provide pharmaceutical compositions comprising dipeptides or pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof. A still further object of this invention is to provide methods for the treatment of hypertension using new amino acid derivatives or pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof. Other objects, features and advantages of this invention will be apparent from the following description of the invention. The present invention provides new amino acid derivatives represented by formula I These amino acid derivatives of formula I of the present invention and pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof inhibit renin activity in a human renin sheep renin substrate system. Furthermore, the amino acid derivatives of the present invention are stable against proteolytic enzymes such as pepsin and chymotrypsins. These findings demonstrate that the amino acid derivatives of formula I of the present invention exhibit a human renin inhibitory effect when administered orally to mammalia, including humans, and thus are useful for treatment of hypertension, especially renin associated hypertension. The amino acid derivatives of formula I of th e present invention can be prepared according to well known method. That is, the amino acid derivatives of the present invention represented by formula I The compounds of formula II used as a starting material can be prepared by reacting a reactive functional derivative of an acid compound of formula The acid compounds represented by formula II above can be prepared by the method described below or an analogous method thereof. That is, the acid compounds represented by formula II can be prepared by reacting 1 naphthaldehyde with diethyl succinate to obtain the compound represented by the formula Alternatively, the acid compound represented by formula II can be prepared by hydrogenating a compound represented by formula VI to obtain a compound represented by formula IX The compounds represented by formula III used as starting material can be prepared by methods described in literature or an analogous method thereof. That is, the compound wherein n is 0 can be prepared by esterifing or amidating 3 amino 2 hydroxy 5 methyl haxanoic acid which is prepared according to the method described in J. Org. Chem., Vol. 45, pages 2288 2290, 1980. The compound wherein n is 1 can be prepared be esterifing or amidating statine or N tert butyloxycarbonyl statine. The reaction of a compound represented by formula II with a compound of formula III can be carried out according to the following manner. That is, the amino acid derivative of formula I of the present invention can be prepared by suspending a compound of formula II in N,N dimethylformamide, adding hydrogen chloride in a proportion of from about 3 to about 5 molar amounts per mole of the compound of formula II to the suspensions, adding isoamyl nitrite in a proportion of from about 1 to about 3 molar amounts per mole of the compound of formula II to the mixture, reacting the mixture for about 5 to about 30 minutes at about 20 to about 5 C, adjusting a pH of the reaction mixture to about 8 to about 9 with triethylamine, adding dropwise the mixture to a solution of the compound of formula III and triethylamine in an equimolar amount to the compound of formula II in N,N dimethylformamide under ice cooling, preferably 20 to 0 C, reacting the mixture for about 5 to about 20 hours at 0 C or at room temperature, adding a 5 aqueous sodium bicarbonate solution and extracting wit h ethyl acetate, evaporating the ethyl acetate layer, and then purifying the residue by preparative silica gel thin layer chromatography or silica gel flash column chromatography. The amino acid derivatives represented by formula I of the present invention can be converted according to conventional methods to a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof. Examples of such pharmaceutically acceptable salts include pharmaceutically acceptable inorganic or organic acid salts such as a hydrochloric acid salt, a sulfuric acid salt, a p toluenesulfonic acid salt, an acetic acid salt, a citric acid salt, tartaric acid salt, a succinic acid salt, a fumaric acid salt and the like. These salts have a renin inhibitory effect as high as the corresponding compound having a free amino group and are stable against proteolytic enzyme, and thus they show the desired renin inhibitory effect even by oral administration. The amino acid derivatives represented by formula I of the present invention possess a strong inhibitory effect on human renin, for example, the amino acid derivatives of formula I produce a 50 inhibition in renin sheep substrate system and in human high renin plasma at 6.9 x 10 ⁷ to 2.2 x 10 ⁸ and 5.2 x 10 ⁶ to 5.4 x 10 ⁹ molar concentrations, respectively, and reduce blood pressure of marmoset in a high renin state with a low toxicity, and thus are useful as a therapeutically active agent for treatment of hypertension, especially renin associated hypertension. The amino acid derivatives represented by formula I and the pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof of this invention can be administered to mammalia, including humans, by oral, intravenous, intramuscular, or intrarectal administration, and for administration they can be formulated into pharmaceutical compositions together with conventional pharmaceutically acceptable carriers or excipients. The amino acid derivatives and the pharmaceutically acceptable salts of the formula I of the present invention can be administered in various dosage forms depending upon the intended therapy. Typical dosage forms which can be used are tablets, pills, powders, liquid preparations, suspensions, emulsions, granules, capsules, suppositories, and injectable preparations. In molding the pharmaceutical compositions into a tablet form, a wide variety of conventional carriers known in the art can be used. Examples of suitable carriers are excipients such as glucose, lactose, starch, cacao butter, hardened vegetable oils, kaolin and talc, binders such as gum arabic powder, tragacanth powder, and ethanol, and disintegrants such as laminaria and agar. The tablets, if desired, can be coated into sugar coated tablets, gelatin coated tablets, film coated tablets, or tablets coated with two or more layers. When the pharmaceutical composition is formulated into an injectable preparation, it is preferred that the resulting injectable solution and suspension are sterilized and rendered isotonic with respect to blood. In making the pharmaceutical composition in a form of solution or suspension, any diluents customarily used in the art can be employed. Examples of suitable diulents include water, ethyl alcohol, propylene glycol, polyoxyethylene sorbitol, and sorbitan esters. Sodium chloride, glucose or glycerol may be incorporated into such a liquid preparation in an amount sufficient to prepare an isotonic solution. The therapeutic agent may further contain ordinary dissolving aids, buffers, pain alleviating agents, and preservatives, and optionally, coloring agents, fragrances, flavors, sweeteners, and other pharmacologically active agents which are known in the art. The dosage of the amino acid derivatives of the present invention may be in a range of from about 5 mg to 5,000 mg per adult human by oral administration per day, or from about 1 mg to 1,000 mg per adult human by parenteral administration per day in multiple doses depending upon the type of disease, the severity of condition to be treated, and the like. This invention is further illustrated in more detail by way of the following examples and reference examples. The melting point of the product obtained was uncorrected. The NMR spectra of the products were measured by JEOL s High Resolution NMR Spectrometer Type JNM GX270. The Mass spectra of the products were measured by JEOL s Mass Spectromer Type JMS DX 300 according to the FAB method. Thin layer chromatography was carried out using Merck s precoated plates silica gel 60 F₂₅₄ and column chromatography was carried out by employing Merck s Kiesel gel 60 230 440 mesh . Thin layer chromatography was carried out by using a lower layer of a mixture of chloroform, methanol and water in a proportion of 8 3 1 by volume mixture A and a mixture of chloroform and methanol in a proportion of 5 1 by volume mixture B as eluents, and an Rf₁ mixture A value and Rf₂ mixture B value were calculated. To a solution of 32.3 g of diethyl succinate and 29.0 g of 1 naphthaldehyde in 100 ml of absolute ethanol was added 10.7 g of sodium hydride 50 dispersion in mineral oil under ice cooling, and then the mixture was heated under reflux for 0.5 hours. To the reaction was added 230 ml of 1N aqueous sodium hydroxide solution, and the mixture was heated under reflux for 1 hour. The reaction mixture was evaporated under reduced pressure, and water was added to the residue. The mixture was extracted with diethyl ether to remove neutral substances. The aqueous layer was acidified by adding concentrated hydrochloric acid, and extracted with diethyl ether. The ethereal layer was washed a saturated sodium chloride aqueous solution, dried over anhydrous magnesium sulfate, and evaporated under reduced pressure. Benzene was added to the residue, and the precipitated crystals were collected by flitration to obtain 26.5 g of 2 1 naphthylmethylene succinic acid as yellow crystals. A solution of 24.5 g of 2 1 naphthylmethylene succinic acid in 260 ml of acetic anhydride was heated at 60 C for 1 hour, and the reaction mixture was evaporated under reduced pressure. A mixture of benzene and hexane 1 1 was added to the residue, and the precipitated crystals were collected by filtration to obtain 16.0 g of 2 1 naphthylmethyl succinic anhydride as orange yellow crystals. A solution of 1.00 g of 2 1 naphthylmethylene succinic anhydride and 0.37 g of morpholine in 31 ml of dry dichloromethane was stirred for 2 hours at room temperature. The reaction mixture was evaporated under reduced pressure, and the residue was crystallized from a mixture of ethyl acetate, benzene and hexane 1 1 1 to obtain 1.10 g of 2 1 naphthylmethylene 3 morpholinocarbonyl propionic acid as colorless crystals. A solution of 1.00 g of the propionic acid compound was hydrogenated over 0.1 g of a 10 palladium charcoal under a hydrogen atmosphere. After filtration of the catalyst, the filtrate was evaporated under reduced pressure. The residue was crystallized from hexane to give 0.90 g of 2 1 naphthylmethyl 3 morpholinocarbonyl propionic acid as a white powder. Rf₁ 0.67MS MH , 328Melting point 64 68 CIR KBr νco 1720, 1640 cm ¹NMR CDCl₃ δ 2.37 2.70 m, 2H , 3.08 3.81 m, 11H , 7.27 8.16 m, 7H To a solution of 17.40 g of diethyl succinate and 15.62 g of 1 naphthaldehyde in 100 ml of absolute ethanol was added 6.00 g of sodium hydride 50 dispersion in mineral oil under ice cooling, and the mixture was heated under reflux for 3 hours. The reaction mixture was evaporated under reduced pressure, and water was added to the resiude. The mixture was extracted with dieth yl ether to remove neutral materials. The aqueous layer was acidified with concentrated hydrochloric acid, and then extracted with diethyl ether. The ethereal layer was washed with a saturated sodium chloride aqueous solution, dried over anhydrous magnesium sulfate, and evaporated under reduced pressure to give 23.60 g of 3 ethoxycarbonyl 4 1 naphthyl 3 butenoic acid as a yellow oil. A solution of 1.39 of the butenoic acid in 50 ml of acetic acid was hydrogenated over 700 mg of a 10 palladium charcoal under a hydrogen atmosphere. After filtration of the catalyst, the filtrate was evaporated under reduced pressure to give 1.04 g of 3 ethoxycarbonyl 4 1 naphthyl butyric acid as a brawn oil. To a solution of 1.03 g of the butyric acid in 20 ml of dry dichloro methane was added 0.64 g of 1,1 carbonyldiimidazole, and the mixture was stirred for 1 hour at room temperature. Then, to the reaction mixture was added 0.35 g of morpholine, and the mixture was stirred for 15 hours. The reaction mixture was evaporated under reduced pressure, and 0.5 aqueous sodium bicarbonate solution was added to the residue. The mixture was extracted with ethyl acetate, and the ethyl acetate layer was washed succesively with water, dilute hydrochlorid acid and water, dried over anhydrous magnesium sulfate, and evaporated under reduced pressure. The residue was purified by silica gel flash column chromatography eluent benzene ethyl acetate 4 1 by volume to obtain 0.86 g of ethyl 2 1 naphthylmethyl 3 morpholinocarbonyl propionate as a colorless oil. The mixture of 0,84 g of the ester compound, 3 ml of a 2N aqueous sodium hydroxide solution and 5 ml of ethanol was stirred for 16 hours at room temperature. The reaction mixture was evaporated under reduced pressure, and water was added to the reaction mixture. The mixture was extracted with diethyl ether to remove neutral materials. The aqueous layer was acidified by adding concentrated hydrochloric acid, and extracted with diethyl ether. The ethereal layer was washed with a saturated sodium chloride aqueous solution, dried over anhydrous magnesium sulfate, and evaporated under reduced pressure to give 0.69 g of 2 1 naphthylmethyl 3 morpholinocarbonyl propionic acid as a white powder. The chemical properties, Rf₁, MS, Melting point, IR, and NMR, of the carboxylic acid obtained were identical with those of the carboxylic acid compound obtained by Reference Example 1. In a manner similar to Reference Example 1, the following carboxylic acid compounds were obtained. Rf₁ 0.72MS MH , 326Melting point 43 47 CIR KBr νco 1720, 1595 cm ¹NMR CDCl₃ δ 0.95 1.70 m, 6H , 2.50 3.85 m, 9H , 7.3 8.15 m, 7H Rf₁ 0.64MS MH , 312Melting point below 30 CIR KBr νco 1720, 1600 cm ¹NMR CDCl₃ δ 1.79 t, 4H, J 3.3Hz , 2.4 2.6 m, 2H , 2.8 3.9 m, 7H , 7.2 8.2 m, 7H Rf₁ 0.71MS MH , 501Melting point 46 48 CIR KBr νco 1720, 1640 cm ¹NMR CDCl₃ δ 2.4 3.4 m, 10H , 3.80 dd, 1H, J 3.8, 13.7Hz , 7.2 8.15 m, 7H Rf₁ 0.66MS MH , 286Melting point 45 50 CIR KBr νco 1700, 1610 cm ¹ NMR CDCl₃ δ 1.08 t, 3H, J 7.1Hz , 2.3 2.55 m, 2H , 2.7 3.8 m, 5H , 5.51 s, 1H , 7.25 8.1 m, 7H To a suspension of 0.89 g of 2 1 napthylmethyl 3 morpholinocarbonyl propionic acid and 0.79 g of L histidine methyl ester dihydrochloride in 23 ml of N,N dimethylformamide were added successively 0.70 ml of diphenylphosphoryl azide and 1.5 ml of triethylamine under ice cooling, and the mixture was stirred for 16 hours under ice cooling. The reaction mixture was evaporated under reduced pressure, and a 5 aqueous sodium bicarbonate solution was added to the residue. The mixture was extracted with ethyl acetate, and then the ethyl acetate layer was washed with water, dried over anhydrous magnesium sulfate, and evaporated under reduced pressure. Diethyl ether was added to the residue, and precipitated crystals were collected by filtration to give 1.25 g of N 2 1 naphthylmethyl 3 morpholinocarbonyl propionyl L histidine methyl ester as a white powder. To a solution of 0.98 g of the ester compound in 10 ml of methanol was added 0.52 g of hydrazine monohydrate, and the mixture was stirred for 4 hours at room temperature. The reaction mixture was evaporated under reduced pressure. The residue was separated by silica gel flash column chromatography eluent chloroform methanol 10 1 , and fraction containing desired product which has Rf₁ value of 0.49 was combined to obtain 0.23 g of N 2 1 naphthylmethyl 3 morpholinocarbonyl propionyl L histidine hydrazide as a white powder. Melting point 115 119 CRf₁ 0.49MS MH , 479IR KBr νco 1620 cm ¹ In a manner similar to Reference Example 4, the following hydrazide compounds were obtained. Rf₁ 0.53, 0.59MS MH , 477Melting point 90 97 CIR KBr νco 1615 cm ¹ Rf₁ 0.59MS MH , 463Melting point 79 84 CIR KBr νco 1610 cm ¹ Rf₁ 0.38, 0.44MS MH , 501Melting point 78 C decomposition IR KBr νco 1620 cm ¹ Rf₁ 0.36, 0.41MS MH , 437Melting point 154 161 CIR KBr νco 1625 cm ¹ A solution containing 3.43 g of sodium hydrogen sulfite in 20 ml of water was added to 2.81 g of N carbobenzoxy L leucinal, and the mixture was stirred for 14 hours under ice cooling. A solution of 1.41 g of potassium cyanide in 50 ml of water and 200 ml of ethyl acetate were added to the reaction mixture, and the mixture was stirred for 4 hours at room temperature. The ethyl acetate layer was washed with a saturated sodium chloride aqueous solution, dried over anhydrous magnesium sulfate, and evaporated under reduced pressure to give 2.54 g of 3 carbobenzoxyamino 2 hydroxy 5 methylhexanenitrile as a colorless oil. A mixture of 20 ml of dioxane and 20 ml of concentrated hydrochloric acid was added to 500 mg of the nitrile, and the mixture was heated under refulx for 12 hours. The reaction mixture was evaporated under reduced pressure, and the residual crystals were purified by cation exhange column chromatography eluent a 2N aqueous NH₄OH solution to obtain 254 mg of 2RS, 3S 3 amino 2 hydroxy 5 methylhexanoic acid as colorless crystals a mixture in ratio of 2 R and 2S being about 7 3 . Melting point 137 140 CIR KBr νco 1570 cm ¹NMR D₂O δ 0.8 1.0 m, 6H , 1.2 1.4 m, 2H , 1.55 1.8 m, 1H , 3.0 3.4 m, 1H , 3.89 d, 0.7H, J 3.3Hz , 4.00 d, 0.3H, J 3.3Hz MS MH , 162 Hydrogen chloride was passed into a solution 110 mg of 2RS, 3S 3 amino 2 hydroxy 5 methylhexanoic acid in 10 ml of methanol under ice cooling, and the mixture was stirred overnight. The reaction mixture was evaporated to dryness under reduced pressure to obtain 150 mg of methyl 2RS, 3S 3 amino 2 hydroxy 5 methylhexanoate hydrochloride as a white powder. IR KBr νco 1740 cm ¹NMR D₂O δ 0.85 1.0 m, 6H , 1.4 1.9 m, 3H , 3.65 3.8 m, 1H , 3.83 s, 3H , 4.45 4.7 m, 1H To a solution of 3.22 g of 2RS, 3S 3 amino 2 hydroxy 5 methylhexanoic acid and 3.08 ml of triethylamine in 30 ml of water was added a solution of 5.41 g of 2 tert butyloxycarbonyloxyimino 2 phenyl acetonitrile in 30 ml of dioxane, and the mixture was stirred ofr 16 hours at room temperature. To the reaction mixture was added 100 ml of water, and the mixture was extracted with ethyl acetate to remove neutral material. The aqueous layer was acidified with an aqueous citric acid solution and extracted with ethyl acetate. The ethyl acetate layer was washed with a saturated sodium chloride solution, dried over anhydrous magnesium sulfate, and evaporated under reduced pressure to obtain 5.10 g of 2RS, 3S 3 tert butyloxycarbonylamino 2 hydroxy 5 methylhexanoic acid as a pale yellow oil. IR neat νco 1710, 1675 cm ¹NMR CDCl₃ δ 0.8 1.0 m, 6H , 1.2 1.85 m, 12H , 3.95 4.4 m, 2H , 4.8 5.0 br, 1H , 9.4 10.4 br, 1H Hydrogen chloride was passed into a solution of 4.0 g of 2RS, 3S 3 amino 2 hydroxy 5 methylhexanoic acid in 50 ml of isopropyl alcohol with stirring under ice cooling, and then 100 ml of dry benzene was added to the reaction mixture, and the mixture was heated under reflux for 10 minutes while removing water formed during the reaction using a molecular sieve. The reaction mixture was evaporated to dryness under reduced pressure to obtain 5.7 g of isopropyl 2RS, 3S 3 amino 2 hydroxy 5 methylhexanoate hydrochloride as a white powder. IR KBr νco 1725 cm ¹NMR D₂O δ 0.8 1.1 m, 6H , 1.29 d, 6H, J 6.6Hz , 1.5 2.0 m, 3H , 3.6 3.75 m, 1H , 4.3 4.7 m, 1H , 5.0 5.2 m, 1H To a solution of 50 mg of N 2 1 naphthylmethyl 3 morpholinocarbonyl propionyl L histidine hydrazide in 1 ml of N,N dimethylformamide were added successively 0.068 ml of a dry 5.1N hydrogen chloride in N,N dimethylformamide solution and 0.017 ml of isoamyl nitrite at 20 C with stirring. After disappearance of hydrazide compound, the reaction mixture was cooled to 30 C, and the reaction mixture was neutralized by adding 0.048 ml of triethylamine to prepare a solution of N 2 1 naphthylmethyl 3 morpholinocarbonyl propionyl L histidine azide. The cold azide solution was added dropwise to a solution of 25 mg of isopropyl 2RS, 3S 3 amino 2 hydroxy 5 methylhexanoate hydrochloride and 0.032 ml of triethylamine in 2 ml of N,N dimethylformamide under ice cooling, and the mixture was stirred for 16 hours. A 5 aqueous sodium bicarbonate solution was added to the reaction mixture, and the mixture was extracted with ethyl acetate, washed with a saturated sodium chloride, dried over anhydrous magnesium sulfate, and evaporated under reduced pressure. The residue was purified by preparative silica gel thin layer chromatography developing solvent chloroform methanol 5 1 by volume Rf₂ 0.53 to obtain 4 mg of isopropyl 2RS, 3S 3 N 2 1 naphthylmethyl 3 morpholinocarbonyl propionyl L histi yl amino 2 hydroxy 5 methylhexanoate as a white powder . Melting point 95 98 CRf₁ 0.59Rf₂ 0.53MS MH , 650 To a solution containing 102 mg of N 2 1 naphthylmethyl 3 morpholinocarbonyl propionyl L histidine hydrazide in 6 ml of N,N dimethylformamide was added successively 0.13 ml of a dry 5.1N hydrogen chloride in N,N dimethylformamide solution and 0.04 ml of isoamyl nitrite at 20 C with stirring. After disappearance of hydrazide compound, the reaction mixture was cooled to 30 C, and then the reaction mixture was neutralized by adding 0.10 ml of triethylamine to prepare a solution on N 2 1 naphthylmethyl 3 morpholinocarbonyl propionyl L histidine azide. The cold azide solution was added dropwise to a solution of 47 mg of methyl 2RS, 3S 3 amino 2 hydroxy 5 methylhexanoate hydrochloride and 0.10 ml of triethylamine in 3.4 ml of N,N dimethylformamide under ice cooling, and the mixture was stirred for 16 hours. A 5 aqueous sodium bicarbonate solution was added to the reaction mixture, and the mixture was extracted with ethyl acetate. The ethyl acetate layer was washed with a saturated sodium chloride, dried over anhydrous magnesium sulfate, and evaporated under reduced pressure. The residue was separated by silica gel flash column chromatography eluent chloroform methanol 15 1 by volume , and fraction containing desired product which has Rf₁ value of 0.59 was isolated to obtained 24 mg of methyl 2RS, 3S 3 N 2 1 naphthylmethyl 3 morpholinocarbonyl propionyl L histi yl amino 2 hydroxy 5 methylhexanoate as a white powder. Melting point 108 113 CRf₁ 0.59Rf₂ 0.52MS MH , 714 To a solution of 261 mg of 2RS, 3S 3 tert butyloxycarbonylamino 2 hydroxy 5 methylhexanoic acid, 0.12 ml of a 30 aqueous trimethylamine solution, and 176 mg of a 1 hydroxybenzotriazole in 2 ml of N,N dimethylformamide and 2 ml of tetrahydrofuran was added 206 mg of dicyclohexylcarbodiimide under ice cooling with stirring, and the mixture was stirred for 16 hours. The reaction mixture was cooled under ice cooling, and insoluble materials were filtered off. The filtrate was evaporated under reduced pressure. The residue was dissolved in ethyl acetate, and the solution was washed successively with an aqueous citric acid solution, a 5 aqueous sodium bicarbonate solution and a saturated sodium chloride aqueous solution, dried over anhydrous magnesium sulfate, and evaporated under reduced pressure to obtain 267 mg of 2RS, 3S 3 tert butyloxycarbonylamino 2 hydroxy 5 methylhexanoylmethylamide as a white powder. IR KBr νco 1690, 1625 cm ¹ . To a solution of 260 mg of the amide compound in 5 ml of methanol was added 2 ml of a 2N hydrochloric acid, and the mixture was stirred for 16 hours at room temperature. The reaction mixture was evaporated under reduced pressure to obtain 189 mg of 2RS, 3S 3 amino 2 hydroxy 5 methylhexanoylmethylamide hydrochloride as a white powder. IR KBr νco 1650 cm ¹ . To a suspension of 130 mg of N 2 1 naphthylmethyl 3 morpholinocarbonyl propionyl L histidine hydrazide in 2 ml of dry N,N dimethylformamide were added successively 0.18 ml of a dry 5.1N hydrogen chloride in dimethylformamide solution and 0.044 ml of isoamyl nitrite at 20 C with stirring. After disappearance of hydrazide compound, the reaction mixture was cooled to 30 C, and neutralized with 0.12 ml of triethylamine to prepare a solution of N 2 1 naphthylmethyl 3 morpholinocarbonyl propionyl L histidine azide. The cold azide solution was added to a solution of 60 mg of 2RS, 3S 3 amino 2 hydroxy 5 methylhexanoylmethylamide hydrochloride a nd 0.039 ml of triethylamine in 2 ml of dry N,N dimethylformamide under ice cooling, and the mixture was stirred for 16 hours. The reaction mixture was evaporated under reduced pressure, and a 5 aqueous sodium bicarbonate solution was added to the residue. The mixture was extracted with ethyl acetate, and the ethyl acetate layer was washed with a saturated sodium chloride, dried over anhydrous magneisum sulfate, and evaporated under reduced pressure. The residue was purified by preparative silica gel thin layer chromatography developing solvent chloroform methanol 5 1, Rf₂ 0.32 to obtain 22 mg of 2RS, 3S 3 N 2 1 napthylmethyl 3 morpholinocarbonyl propionyl L histid l amino 2 hydroxy 5 methylhexanoylmethylamide as a white powder. Melting point 123 128 CRf₁ 0.47Rf₂ 0.32MS MH , 621 To a solution of 430 mg of 2RS, 3S 3 tert butyloxycarbonylamino 2 hydroxy 5 methylhexanoic acid, 0.33 ml of isopropylamine, and 451 mg of 1 hydroxy benzotriazole in 2 ml of N,N dimethylformamide and 2 ml of tetrahydrofuran was added 418 mg of dicyclohexylcarbodiimide under ice cooling with stirring, and the mixture was stirred for 16 hours. The reaction mixture was cooled under ice cooling, and insoluble materials were filtered off. The filtrate was evaporated under reduced pressure, and the residue was dissolved in ethyl acetate. The mixture was washed successively with an aqueous citric acid solution, a 5 aqueous sodium bicarbonate solution and a saturated sodium chloride aqueous solution, dried over anhydrous magnesium sulfate, and evaporated under reduced pressure to obtain 428 mg of 2RS, 3S 3 tert butyloxy carbonylamino 2 hydroxy 5 methylhexanoylisopropylam de as a yellow oil IR neat νco 1685, 1630cm ¹ . To a solution of 420 mg of the amide compound obtained in 10 ml of methanol was added 4 ml of a 2N hydrochloric acid, and the mixture was stirred for 16 hours at room temperature. The reaction mixture was evaporated under reduced pressure to obtain 171 mg of 2RS, 3S 3 amino 2 hydroxy 5 methylhexanoylisopropylamide hydrochloride as a white powder. IR KBr νco 1640 cm ¹ . To a suspension of 160 mg of N 2 1 naphthylmethyl 3 morpholinocarbonyl propionyl L histidine hydrazide in 2 ml of dry N,N dimethylformamide were added succesively 0.21 ml of a dry 5.1N hydrogen chloride in N,N dimethylformamide and 0.054 ml of isoamyl nitrite at 20 C with stirring. After disappearance of hydrazide compound, the reaction mixture was cooled to 30 C, and neutralized with 0.15 ml of triethylamine to prepare a solution of N 2 1 naphthylmethyl 3 morpholinocarbonyl propionyl L histidine azide. The cold azide solution was added dropwise to a solution of 80 mg of 2RS, 3S 3 amino 2 hydroxy 5 methylhexanoylisopropylamide hydrochloride and 0.047 ml of triethylamine in 2 ml of dry N,N dimethylformamide under ice cooling, and the mixture was stirred for 16 hours. The reaction mixture was evaporated under reduced pressure, and a 5 aqueous sodium bicarbonate solution was added to the residue. The mixture was extracted with ethyl acetate, and the ethyl acetate layer was washed with a saturated sodium chloride aqueous solution, dried over anhydrous magnesium sulfate, and evaporated under reduced pressure. The residue was purified by preparative silica gel thin layer chromatography developing solvent chloroform methanol 5 1, Rf₁ 0.47 to obtain 47 mg of 2RS, 3S 3 N 2 1 naphthylmethyl 3 morpholinocarbonyl propionyl L histi yl amino 2 hydroxy 5 methylhexanoylisopropylamide as a white powder. Melting point 108 113 CRf₁ 0.67RF₂ 0.47MS MH , 649 To a suspension of 240 mg of N 2 1 naphthylmethyl 3 piperidinocarbonyl propionyl L histidine hydrazide in 3 ml of dry N,N dimethylformamide were added successively 0.32 ml of a dry 5.1N hydrogen chloride in N,N dimethylformamide solution and 0.08 ml of isoamyl nitrite at 20 C with stirring. After disappearance of hydrazide compound, the reaction mixture was cooled to 30 C and neutralized with 0.23 ml of triethylamine to prepare a solution of N 2 1 naphthylmethyl 3 piperidinocarbonyl propionyl L histidine azide. The cold azide solution was added dropwise to a solution of 120 mg of isopropyl 2RS, 3S 3 amino 2 hydroxy 5 methylhexanoate hydrochloride and 0.07 ml of triethylamine in 2 ml of dry N,N dimethylformamide under ice cooling with stirring, and the mixture was stirred for 16 hours. The reaction mixture was evaporated under reduced pressure. A 5 aqueous sodium bicarbonate solution was added to the residue. The mixture was extracted with ethyl acetate, and the ethyl acetate layer was washed with a saturated sodium chloride aqueous solution, dried over anhydrous magnesium sulfate, and evaporated under reduced pressure. The residue was separated by silica gel flash column chromatography eluent chloroform methanol 20 1 by volume , and fraction containing desired product which has Rf₁ value of 0.63 was combined and purified to obtain 18 mg of isopropyl 2RS, 3S 3 N 2 1 naphthylmethyl 3 piperidinocarbonyl propionyl L histi yl amino 2 hydroxy 5 methylhexanoate as a white powder. Melting point 91 97 CRf₁ 0.63 Rf₂ 0.54MS MH , 648 To a suspension of 200 mg of N 2 1 naphthylmethyl 3 piperidinocarbonyl propionyl L histidine hydrazide in 2 ml of dry N,N dimethylformamide were added successively 0.26 ml of a dry 5.1N hydrogen chloride in N,N dimethylformamide solution and 0.066 ml of isoamyl nitrite with stirring at 20 C. After disappearance of hydrazide compound, the reaciton mixture was cooled to 30 C and neutralized with 0.19 ml of triethylamine to prepare a solution of N 2 1 naphthylmethyl 3 piperidinocarbonyl propionyl L histidine azide. The cold azide solution was added dropwise to a solution of 88 mg of methyl 2RS, 3S 3 amino 2 hydroxy 5 methylhexanoate hydrochloride and 0.058 ml of triethylamine in 2 ml of dry N,N dimethylformamide with stirring under ice cooling, and then the mixture was stirred for 16 hours. The reaction mixture was evaporated under reduced pressure, and a 5 aqueous sodium bicarbonate solution was added to the residue. The mixture was extracted with ethyl acetate, and the ethyl acetate layer was washed with a saturated sodium chloride aqueous solution, dried over anhydrous magnesium sulfate, and evaporated under reduced pressure. The residue was separated by silica gel flash column chromatography eluent chloroform methanol 20 1 by volume , and fractions containing desired product which has Rf₁ value of 0.54 were combined to obtain 141 mg of methyl 2RS, 3S 3 N 2 1 naphthylmethyl 3 piperidinocarbonyl propionyl L histi yl amino 2 hydroxy 5 methylhexanoate as a white powder. Melting point 91 97 CRf₁ 0.54Rf₂ 0.44MS MH , 620 To a solution of 261 mg of 2RS, 3S 3 tert butyloxycarbonylamino 2 hydroxy 5 methylhexanoic acid 0.12 ml of a 30 aqueous methylamine solution, and 176 mg of 1 hydroxybenzotriazole in 2 ml of tetra hydrofuran and 2 ml of N,N dimethylformamide was added 206 mg of dicylcohexylcarbodiimide with stirring under ice cooling, and the mixture was stirred for 16 hours. The reacti on mixture was cooled in an ice bath, and isoluble materials were filtered off. The filtrate was evaporated under reduced pressure, and the residue was dissolved in ethyl acetate. The ethyl acetate layer was washed successively with an aqueous citric acid solution, a 5 aqueous sodium bicarbonate solution and a saturated sodium chloride aqueous solution, dried over anhydrous magnesium sulfate, and evaporated under reduced pressure to obtain 267 mg of 2RS, 3S 3 tert butyloxycarbonylamino 2 hydroxy 5 methylhexanoylmethylamide as a white powder. IR KBr νco 1690, 1625 cm ¹ . To a solution of 260 mg of the amide compound obtained in 5 ml of methanol was added 2 ml of a 2N hydrochloric acid, and the mixture was stirred for 16 hours at room temperature. The reaction mixture was evaporated under reduced pressure to obtain 189 mg of 2RS, 3S 3 amino 2 hydroxy 5 methylhexanoylmethylamide hydrochloride as a white powder. IR KBr νco 1650 cm ¹ . To a suspension of 126 mg of N 2 1 naphthylmethyl 3 piperidinocarbonyl propionyl L histidine hydrazide in 2 ml of dry N,N dimethylformamide were added successively 0.17 ml of a dry 5.1N hydrogen chloride in N,N dimethylformamide solution and 0.042 ml of isoamyl nitrite at 20 C with stirring. After disappearance of hydrazide compound, the reaction mixture was cooled to 30 C, and neutralized with 0.12 ml of triethylamine to prepare a solution of N 2 1 naphthylmethyl 3 piperidinocarbonyl propionyl L histidine azide. The cold azide solution was added dropwise to a solution of 56 mg of 2RS, 3S 3 amino 2 hydroxy 5 methylhexanoylmethylamide hydrochloride and 0.036 ml of triethylamine in 2 ml of dry N,N dimethylformamide under ice cooling, and the mixture was stirred for 16 hours. The reaction mixture was evaporated under reduced pressure, and a 5 aqueous sodium bicarbonate solution was added to the residue. The mixture was extracted with ethyl acetate, and the ethyl acetate layer was washed with a saturated sodium chloride aqueous solution, dried over anhydrous magnesium sulfate, and evaporated under reduced pressure. The residue was separated by silica gel flash column chromatography eluent chloroform methanol 15 1 by volume , and fractins containing the desired product which has Rf₁ value of 0.51 was combined to obtain 50 mg of 2RS, 3S 3 N 2 1 naphthylmethyl 3 piperidinocarbonyl propionyl L histidyl amino 2 hydroxy 5 methylhexanoylmethylamide as a white powder. Melting point 124 130 CRf₁ 0.51Rf₂ 0.41MS MH , 619 To a solution of 80 mg of N 2 1 naphthylmethyl 3 pyrrolidinocarbonyl propionyl L histidine hydrazide in 2 ml of N,N dimethylformamide were added successively 0.12 ml of a dry 5.1N hydrogen chloride in N,N dimethylformamide solution and 0.028 ml of isoamyl nitrite at 20 C, and the mixture was stirred. After disappearance of hydrazide compound, the reaction mixture was cooled to 30 C and neutralized with 0.078 ml of triethylamine to prepare a solution of N 2 1 naphthylmethyl 3 pyrrolidinocarbonyl propionyl L histidine azide. The cold azide solution was added dropwise to a solution of 37 mg of methyl 2RS, 3S 3 amino 2 hydroxy 5 methylhexanoate hydrochloride and 0.053 ml of triethylamine in 1 ml of N,N dimethylformamide under ice cooling, and the mixture was stirred for 16 hours. A 5 aqueous sodium bicarbonate solution was added to the reaction mixture, and the mixture was extracted with ethyl acetate. The ethyl acetate layer was washed with a saturated sodium chloride aqueous solution, dried over anhydrous magnesium sulfate, and evaporated under reduced presssure. The residue was purified by preparative silica gel thin layer chromatography developing solvent a low layer of chloroform methanol water 8 3 1, Rf₁ 0.52 to obta in 36 mg of methyl 2RS, 3S 3 N 2 1 naphthylmethyl 3 pyrrolidinocarbonyl propionyl L hist dyl amino 2 hydroxy 5 methylhexanoate as a white powder. Melting point 99 102 CRf₁ 0.52Rf₂ 0.48MS MH , 606 To a solution of 100 mg of N 2 1 naphthylmethyl 3 dimethylcarbamoyl propionyl L histidine hydrazide in 5 ml of dry N,N dimethylformamide were added successively 0.15 ml of a dry 5.1N hydrogen chloride in N,N dimethylformamide solution and 0.04 ml of isoamyl nitrite at 20 C with stirring. After disappearance of hyrdazide compound, the reaction mixture was cooled to 30 C and neutralized with 0.11 ml of triethylamine to prepare a solution of N 2 1 naphthylmethyl 3 dimethylcarbamoyl propionly L histidine azide. The cold azide solution was added dropwise to a solution of 50 mg of methyl 2RS, 3S 3 amino 2 hydroxy 5 methylhexanoate hydrochloride and 0.04 ml of triethylamine in 5 ml of dry N,N dimethylformamide under ice cooling, and the mixture was stirred for 16 hours. The reaction mixture was evaporated under reduced pressure, and a 5 aqueous sodium bicarbonate solution was added to the residue. The mixture was extracted with ethyl acetate, and the ethyl acetate layer was dried over anhydrous magnesium sulfate and evaporated reduced pressure. The residue was purified by preparative silica gel thin layer chromatography developing solvent a lower layer of chloroform methanol water 8 3 1, Rf₁ 0.69 to obtain 20 mg of methyl 2RS, 3S 3 N 2 1 naphthylmethyl 3 dimethylcarbamoyl propionyl L histid l amino 2 hydroxy 5 methylhexanoate as a white powder. Melting point 117 121 C Rf₁ 0.69Rf₂ 0.68MS MH , 580 To a suspension of 207 mg of N 2 1 naphthylmethyl 3 ethylcarbamoyl propionyl L histidine hydrazide in 3 ml of dry N,N dimethylformamide were added successively 0.30 ml of a dry 5.1N hydrogen chloride in N,N dimethylformamide solution and 0.076 ml of isoamyl nitrite at 20 C with stirring. After disappearance of hydrazide compound, the reaction mixture was cooled to 30 C and neutralzied with 0.22 ml of triethylamine to prepare a solution of N 2 1 naphthylmethyl 3 ethylcarbamoyl propionyl L histidine azide. The cold azide solution was added dropwise to a solution of 100 mg of methyl 2RS, 3S 3 amino 2 hydroxy 5 methylhexanoate hydrochloride and 0.66 ml of triethylamine in 2 ml of dry N,N dimethylformamide under ice cooling, and the mixture was stirred for 16 hours. The reaction mixture was evaporated under reduced pressure, and a 5 aqueous sodium bicarbonate solution was added to the residue. The mixture was extracted with ethyl acetate, and the ethyl acetate layer was washed with a saturated sodium chloride aqueous solution, dried over anhydrous magnesium sulfate, and evaporated under reduced pressure. The residue was purified by silica gel flash column chromatography eluent chloroform methanol 15 1, Rf₁ 0.43 to obtain 77 mg of methyl 2RS, 3S 3 N 2 1 naphthylmethyl 3 ethylcarbamoyl propionyl L histidyl amino 2 hydroxy 5 methylhexanoate as a white powder. Melting point 103 108 CRf₁ 0.43Rf₂ 0.32MS MH , 580 Hydrogen chloride was passed into a solution of 100 mg of N tert butyloxycarbonyl statine commercially available in 20 ml of absolute methanol under ice cooling with stirring, and then the reaction mixture was stirred overnight at room temperature. The reaction mixture was evaporated under reduced pressure to obtain 81 mg of methyl statinate hydrochloride as a colorless viscous oil. IR neat νco 1725 cm ¹ . To a suspension of 48 mg of N 2 1 naphthylmethyl 3 morpholinocarbonyl propionyl L histidine hydrazide in 1 ml of dry N,N dimethylformamide were added successively 0.065 ml of a dry 5.1N hydrogen chloride in N,N dimethylformamide solution and 0.016 ml of isoamyl nitrite at 20 C with stirring. After disappearance of hydrazide compound, the reaction mixture was cooled to 30 C and neutralized with 0.046 ml of triethylamine to prepare a solution of N 2 1 naphthylmethyl 3 morpholinocarbonyl propionyl L histidine azide. The cold azide solution was added dropwise to a solution of 23 mg of methyl statinate hydrochloride and 0.031 ml of triethylamine in 1 ml of dry N,N dimethylformamide under ice cooling, and the mixture was stirred for 16 hours. The reaction mixture was evaporated under reduced pressure, and a 5 aqueous sodium bicarbonate solution was added to the residue. The mixture was extracted with ethyl acetate, and the ethyl acetate layer was washed with a saturated sodium chloride aqueous solution, dried over anhydrous magnesium sulfate, and evaporated under reduced pressure. The residue was purified by preparative silica gel thin layer chromatography developing solvent chloroform methanol 5 1, Rf₂ 0.51 to obtain 5 mg of methyl N 2 1 naphthylmethyl 3 morpholinocarbonyl propionyl L histidylstat nate as a white powder. Melting point 98 103 CRf₁ 0.54Rf₂ 0.51MS MH , 636 Hydrogen chloride was passed into a solution of 100 mg of N tert butyloxycarbonyl statine commercially available in 5 ml of isopropanol under ice cooling with stirring, and to the reaction mixture was added 5 ml of dry benzene. The mixture was heated under reflux for 10 minutes while removing water formed during the reaction using a molecular sieve. The reaction mixture was evaporated under reduced pressure to obtain 90 mg of isopropyl statinate hydrochloride as a colorless viscous oil. IR neat νco 1720 cm ¹ . To a suspension of 94 mg of N 2 1 naphthylmethyl 3 morpholinocarbonyl propionyl L histidine hydrazide in 1 ml of dry N,N dimethylformamide were added successively 0.13 ml of a dry 5.1N hydrogen chloride in N,N dimethylformamide solution and 0.031 ml of isoamyl nitrite at 20 C with stirring. After disappearance of hydrazide compound, the reaction mixture was cooled to 30 C and neutralized with 0.09 ml of triethylamine to prepare a solution of N 2 1 naphthylmethyl 3 morpholinocarbonyl propionyl L histidine azide. The cold hydrazide solution was added dropwise to a solution of 50 mg of isopropyl statinate hydrochloride and 0.06 ml of triethylamine in 1 ml of dry N,N dimethylformamide under ice cooling, and the mixture was stirred for 16 hours. The reaction mixture was evaporated under reduced pressure, and a 5 aqueous sodium bicarbonate soluiton was added to the residue. The mixture was extracted with ethyl acetate, and the ethyl acetate layer was washed with a saturated sodium chloride aqueous solution, dried over anhydrous magnesium sulfate, and evaporated under reduced pressure. The residue was purified by preparative silica gel thin layer chromatography developing solvent chloroform methanol 5 1, Rf₂ 0.59 to obtain 45 mg of isopropyl N 2 1 naphthylmethyl 3 morpholinocarbonyl propionyl L histidylstat nate as a white powder. Melting point 94 98 C Rf₁ 0.61Rf₂ 0.59MS MH , 664 To a solution of 100 mg of N tert butyloxycarbonyl statine commercially available , and 42 mg of isoamylamine in 3 ml of N,N dimethylformamid e and 3 ml of tetrahydrofuran were added successively 79 mg of 1 hydroxybenzotriazole and 83 mg of dicylcohexylcarbodiimide under ice cooling with stirring, and the mixture was stirred for 16 hours. Precipitated crystals were filtered off and the filtrate was evaporated under reduced pressure. Ethyl acetate was added to the residue, and the mixture was cooled. Precipitated crystals were filtered off. The tiltrate was washed successively with a 5 aqueous sodium bicarbonate solution and a saturated sodium chloride aqueous solution, dried over anhydrous magnesium sulfate, and evaporated under reduced pressure. The residue was purified by silica gel flash column chromatography eluent chloroform methanol 40 1 by volume to obtain 132 mg of N tert butyloxycarbonyl tatylisoamylamide as a colorless viscous oil. IR neat νco 1685, 1640 cm ¹ . To a solution of 130 mg of the amide compound in 10 ml of methanol was added 2 ml of a 2N hydrochloric acid, and the mixture was stirred for 16 hours at room temperature. The reaction mixture was evaporated under reduced pressure to obtain 57 mg of statylisoamylamide hydrochloride as a white powder. IR neat νco 1635 cm ¹ . To a suspension of 57 mg of N 2 1 naphthylmethyl 3 morpholinocarbonyl propionyl L histidine hydrazide in 2 ml of dry N,N dimethylformamide were added successively 0.076 ml of a dry 5.l hydrogen chloride in N,N dimethylformamide solution and 0.019 ml of isoamyl nitrite with stirring at 20 C. After disappearance of hyrdazide compound, the reaction mixture was cooled to 30 C and neutralized with 0.055 ml of triethylamine to prepare a solution of N 2 1 naphthylmethyl 3 morpholinocarbonyl propionyl L histidine azide. The cold azide solution was added to a solution of 35 mg of statylisoamylamide hydrochloride and 0.017 ml of triethylamine in 2 ml of dry N,N dimethylformamide under ice cooling, and the mixture was stirred for 16 hours. The reaction mixture was evaporated under pressure, and a 5 aqueous sodium bicarbonate solution was added to the residue. The mixture was extracted with ethyl acetate, and the ethyl acetate layer was washed with a saturated sodium chloride aqueous solution, dried over anhydrous magnesium sulfate, and evaporated under reduced pressure. The residue was purified by preparative silica gel thin layer chromatography developing solvent chloroform methanol 5 1, Rf₂ 0.48 to obtain 11 mg of N 2 1 naphthylmethyl 3 morpholinocarbonyl propionyl L histidylstat lisoamylamide as a white powder. Melting point 99 106 CRf₁ 0.69Rf₂ 0.48MS MH , 691 To a mixture containing 200 µl of a 125 mM pyrophosphate buffer pH 7.4 , 25 µl of a 20 mM aqueous solution of L phenylalanyl L alanyl L prolin as an angiotensin cnverting enzyme inhibitor, 50 µ0l of semipurified sheep renin substrate 2000 ng angiotensin I ml , 50 µl of dimethyl sulfoxide solution of an amino acid compound of the present invention and 150 µl of deionized water was added 25 µl of purified human renin 20 30 ng angiotensin I ml hr. The mixture was incubated for 15 minutes on a water bath at 37 C, and the reaction mixture was allowed to stand for 5 minutes on a water bath at 100 C to stop the reaction. After cooling, 200 µl of the solution were taken up and the amount of angiotensin I produced by the addition of renin was determined by radiommunoassay. The inhibitory effect was calculated by the following equation. As a control, the same procedure as above was carried out by using 50 µl of dimethyl sulfoxide alone in place of the 50 µl of dimethyl sulfoxide solution containing an amino acid compound of the present invention. The molar concentration which produced a 50 inhibition IC₅₀ was calculated from the inhibition value obtained, and the results are show below. A mixture of 350 µl of a 0.5 M phosphate buffer containing 14 mM EDTA 2Na and a 0.3 neomycin sulfate, which was adjusted to the pH of 7, 50 µl of a 20 mM an aqueous solution of L phenylalanyl L alanyl L prolin as an angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitor and 100 µl of dimethyl sulfoxide solution containing an amino acid compound of the present invention was added to 500µl of human high renin plasma, and 200 µl of the mixture was incubated at 4 C in an ice bath, and remaining mixture 800 µl was incubated for 60 minutes at 37 C in a water bath. A 200 µl sample was withdrawn from the incubated mixture, chilled immediately in an ice bath, and the amount A of angiotensin I produced was determined by radioimmunoassay. Also, the amount B of angiotensin I produced in the incubated mixture at 4 C in an ice bath was determined by radioimmunoassy. As a control, the same procedure as above was carried out by using 100 µl of dimethyl sulfoxide alone in place of the 100µl of dimethyl sulfoxide solution containing an amino acid compound of the present invention. The renin inhibitory effect in human plasa was calculated by taking the amount of angiotensin I A from the amount of angiotensin I B . The inhibotory effect was calculated by the following equation. The molar concentration which produced 50 inhibition IC₅₀ was calculated from the inhibition value obtained, and the results are shown below. The experiment was carrried out by using common marmoset as described in K.G. Hofbauer et al., Furosemide was orally administered three times to common marmoset at 15 mg per kilogram per day every other day to create a high renin state. Blood pressure of consious marmoset was measured 2 days after the last administration of furosemide. Three consious male marmosets marmosets weighing 305 345 g were fixed. Mean blood pressure at tail artery was recorded on pretismograph instrument. The amino acid compound, of the present invention isopropyl 2RS. 3S 3 N 2 1 naphthylmethyl 3 morpholinocarbonylpropionyl L histid l amino 2 hydroxy 5 methylhexanoate and administered orally at 30 mg kg by using a catheter. The results obtained are shown below.