# A TRANSISTOR DEVICE

## Claims
Ballistisches Transistorbauelement mit einem Heteroübergang, das folgendes aufweist einen Emitter 4 , um Träger hoher Energie und großer Geschwindigkeit in eine Basis 3 zu injizieren und einen Kollektor 2 für Träger, die ballistisch durch die Basis transportiert wurden und ein erstes Barrieremittel 10 , um Ladung auf eine Potentialmulde zu begrenzen, die benachbart zu der Grenzfläche zwischen dem Emitter und der Basis liegt, wenn zwischen dem Kollektor und dem Emitter eine Vorspannung angelegt wird, dadurch gekennzeichnet, daß die Basis ein zweites Barrieremittel 8 aufweist, das benachbart zu der Grenzfläche zwischen der Basis und dem Kollektor ausgebildet ist, um zu verhindern, daß ballistische Träger genügend Energie zum Transfer in ein Nebenminimum des Leitungsbandes gewinnen.

## Description
This invention relates to a transistor device which can perform amplification with wide band width and switching in the speed range of the order of 10 ¹² seconds. Efforts have been undertaken to reduce the dimensions of semiconductor devices and to increase the carrier velocity so as to reduce the transit time of the carriers and thereby improve the speed of response. With such efforts, however, have come difficulty in manufacture and serious restrictions on the impressed voltages. One particular high speed device known as a metal base transistor was reported in Proceedings of the IRE, Volume 50, page 1527, 1962. The device was composed of two Schottky barrier diodes back to back on a metal base. An improved metal base type structure is described in EP B 33496. In that structure, a two stage emitter is provided in which, in the first stage, there is a high density of carriers and in the second stage, which is adjacent to a high conductivity base, there is a low barrier. The high conductivity base thickness is of the order of the mean free path of an electron. A further development of this type of device is described in EP A 92645. That structure employs a field induced layer between two semiconductor regions of the same conductivity type, but of a different conductivity level to serve as a base region. The layer is produced by the field of the operating electrical bias that is applied to the device. The layer thickness is of the order of the mean free path of an electron so that ballistic type transport is achieved. A more recent development in this type of device is reported in IEEE Electron Device Letters Volume EDL 6, No 4, April 1985, page 178 wherein there is described a structure in which a base conductivity is induced by the collector field. These known devices exhibit less than optimum performance due to low current or voltage gain and low electron velocity during transit from the emitter to the collector. Another development of this type of device is described in EP A 084 393. When a bias is applied between the source and the drain charge is accumulated in a potential well formed between the emitter and the gate. A similar device is disclosed in JP A 58 100 456. According to one aspect the present invention provides a ballistic heterojunction transistor device including an emitter for injecting high energy, high velocity carriers into a base and a collector for carriers which have been ballistically transported across said base and a first barrier means for confining charge in a potential well adjacent to the interface between said emitter and base when a bias is applied between said collector and emitter characterised in that said base includes a second barrier means formed adjacent the interface between said base and collector for inhibiting ballistic carriers from gaining sufficient energy to transfer to a satellite conduction band valley. How the invention can be carried out will now be described by way of example, with reference to the accompanying drawings in which While the preferred embodiment uses the specific materials gallium arsenide GaAs and aluminium gallium arsenide AlGaAs , specific n or p conductivity type, and specific donor or acceptor carrier type, conductivity, and carrier type substitutions will be readily apparent to one skilled in the art. In ballistic type devices, the carriers traverse a portion of the device, usually the base, while avoiding significant loss of both energy and velocity. Such devices require an injecting emitter function for injecting carriers with high energy and high velocity, which in turn is the lowest effective mass, across a base function toward a collector function. The base function is used to control the number of carriers injected by the emitter. The collector function ideally provides efficient collection of the high velocity carriers injected by the emitter that successfully retain most of their velocity upon traversing the base. The most significant velocity loss mechanism of high energy electrons in GaAs at low temperature is intervalley scattering, which occurs in substantially less than 0.1 picoseconds when the electron s energy exceeds about 0.3 electron volts eV . In order to maintain high velocity electron transport, either the electrons must transit the base in less time than is required for intervalley scattering which in turn would necessitate a total base thickness below about 10 nanometres, or the electron must be maintained at an energy that is below the energy for such intervalley scattering which is below the satellite, large effective mass conduction band valleys of the particular material which in this illustration is GaAs. Electron injection across a heterojunction into a base is controlled by a two dimensional electron gas that occurs within the base near the emitter. A low energy barrier is positioned between the two dimensional electron gas and the collector. The barrier is incorporated to prevent the control charge, which is the 2 D electron gas, from flowing to the collector under bias while also being low enough to permit the high energy, high velocity electrons from the emitter to pass to the collector with minimal quantum mechanical reflection and little net velocity loss. This low energy barrier may be provided by compositional grading or by planar doped barrier means. For ease of communication, the compositional type barrier will be described. An additional doping produced barrier similar to the planar doped type of barrier described in Electron Letters, Volume 16, Number 22 1980 , pages 836 to 838 is incorporated in the base to allow a relatively large collector to base bias to be applied while maintaining desirable high velocity electron transport across the base. The embodiment of Figure 1 includes a semiconductor substrate 1, a collector 2, a base 3, and an emitter 4. For ease of explanation, n conductivity type will be used in the description with higher and lower conductivity being shown as or and i being used to indicate intrinsic. The substrate 1 serves the function of an ohmic contact to the collector 2 and is connected to an external electrical connection 5. The substrate 1 is n doped GaAs and is shown schematically it can be part of a larger supporting structure not shown and it can include a buffer layer. The collector 2 comprises the substrate 1 and an n GaAs epitaxial layer 6 grown on the substrate 1. The layer 6 is doped to about 10¹⁸ atoms cc and is about 0.1 to 1.0 micron thick. An intrinsic or undoped GaAs layer 7 is epitaxially grown on the n GaAs layer 6. This intrinsic GaAs layer 7 is usually about 5 to 25 nm thick, and preferably about 10 nm thick. A p GaAs layer 8 is grown epitaxially with the opposite face of the intrinsic gallium arsenide layer 7. This p GaAs region 8 is about 1 to 3 nm thick and preferably about 2 nm thick. The concentration of the p type dopant in this layer is chosen to produce a sheet charge density of approximately 10¹² negative charges per square cm. On the face of the p gallium arsenide region 8 that is opposite to layer 7 there is grown an intrinsic or undoped epitaxial gallium arsenide region 9 about 80 to about 120 nm thick, preferably about 100 nm thick. On the face of the intrinsic gallium arsenide layer 9 opposite to layer 8 is grown an intrinsic Al A layer 11 of gallium arsenide about 10 nm thick is grown on the layer 10. The layer 11 is substantially undoped, in that it contains no more than about 10¹⁵ dopant atoms per cm³. A layer 12 of undoped Al In growing a final layer 13 on layer 12, an n type carrier concentration of about 10¹⁸ atoms per cm³ is added and in addition, the Al component of the composition of layer 13 is gradually reduced to 0 or pure GaAs in a distance of about 200 nm. In the structure of Figure 1, layers 12 and 13 constitute the emitter designated as 4. An ohmic contact 14 is made to the emitter 4 and the contact is then used to define the area to be etched to expose an area of layer 11 for the base contact. The layer is etched back to the vicinity of the GaAs layer 11 and an alloyed ohmic contact 15 is made to serve as the external base electrode. A suitable contact is an alloyed Sn contact, as disclosed in US A 4,379,005. Such an alloyed Sn contact forms a blocking or rectifying contact to the AlGaAs in layers 10 and 12, but an ohmic contact to the GaAs in layer 11. Although the above description refers to a combination of GaAs and AlGaAs, other suitable combinations can alternatively be used, for example Ge and AlGaAs Ge and GaAs InSb and CdTe GaAs and InGaAs. N type dopants for GaAs include silicon and tin. P type dopants for GaAs include beryllium and magnesium. The base 3 is made up of layers 7, 8, 9, 10 and 11 which in combination functionally provide an i p i n structure. This structure has a number of unique features. One feature is that the n structure approximate the emitter is derived from the electron transfer from the doping of the emitter into the region 11. Another feature of the structure is the region 10 which acts as a barrier to electron flow from the base to the collector when there is bias between the emitter and the collector. A further feature is that under emitter to collector bias the planar barrier structure in the base 3 of layers 7 through 11 acts to maintain constant electron kinetic energy as electrons traverse through the base 3. It should be noted that in contrast to the usual base regions employed in known structures which require either doping or bias to induce conductivity, the emitter structure 4 gives rise to a nearly 2 dimensional electron gas that serves as that part of the base providing emitter bias. The electrons in the doped AlGaAs layer 13 will transfer through layer 12 into the GaAs layer 11, producing an accumulation layer 16. The means for providing this accumulation layer can be referred to as a conduction band offset means. The AlGaAs composition in regions 12 and 13 is selected such that in service as an emitter the electrons are injected into the GaAs layer 11 with an energy nearly, but not over, that required to transfer to a high effective mass satellite conduction band valley. The electrons will thus have a low effective mass and, hence, a high velocity. With the afore described features, the electrons are launched with the proper velocity and are caused to retain that velocity by the interrelated quantum mechanical elements placed in the base 3. A key feature of the performance of the device is a dual function of the base 3. First, a part of the base 3 employs a planar doped type barrier structure. This type of barrier may be considered electrostatic in nature in that in a zero bias condition the barrier causes the Fermi level to be in a position such that when the device is placed under operating bias, the Fermi level is in the optimal location. Such a barrier is of the planar doping type in the art where a narrow high conductivity level is introduced. In the embodiment, this type of barrier is constructed as layer 8 in the base 3 adjacent to the collector 4 so that the applied bias voltages will not cause the ballistic electrons to gain so much energy that they will transfer to the satellite conduction band valleys and slow considerably due to a large increase in their effective mass. Thus, a unique aspect is the quantum mechanical feature of the barrier that permits the ballistic electrons to have sufficient energy for performance but prevents acquisition of enough energy for intervalley scattering for appropriate biasing. In the embodiment, the n i p i n structure is made with i regions of unequal thickness and a p region thin enough so that there are no free holes. The conduction band profile through the device has a maximum at the p region which in turn forms a barrier to electron flow. In operation of the device, the two dimensional electron gas 16 in the base 3 adjacent the emitter interface serves as the first n region. A second feature of the base is the low barrier that confines carriers in the potential well in region 16 adjacent the emitter base interface. This barrier is produced by layer 10 which prevents low energy electrons from the two dimensional electron gas from reaching the collector despite high emitter to collector bias. As a result of layer 10, a collector to base voltage near the band gap of GaAs, about 1.5V, can be applied before significant conduction between the electron gas and the collector region occurs. With barriers of both electrostatic and compositional type, precise quantum mechanical conditions under operaing bias can be produced in semiconductor structures. Smaller but precise barriers such as setting thresholds for conduction and band offset potential well confinement can be provided by bias independent compositional barriers and these can be used with higher but bias sensitive electrostatic barriers. Correlated graphs of the composition, doping and band energy at zero bias of the structure of Figure 1 are shown in Figure 2. The conduction band profile of the structure of Figure 1 during operation is shown in Figure 3. The percentage of Al introduced into the GaAs in the emitter and for the low compositional barrier in the base is shown at the top of Figure 2. Considering the structure as it is grown from the collector towards the emitter, the Al is introduced in the region 10 and in the emitter region 12 with grading by reduction to 0 in region 13. With respect to doping, again considering growth beginning with the collector region, the n doping in layer 6 at about 10¹⁸ atoms cc is reduced to zero at the collector interface between layers 6 and 7. There is a growth of undoped material followed by a sharp p dopant quantity or spike which produces the p layer 8. The material then remains undoped during growth through layer 12 until the layer 13 is formed. The composition and dopant configurations as shown in Figure 2 produce in the structure of Figure 1 the energy band situation at zero bias as shown in Figure 2 wherein the p region 8 produces a planar doped or electrostatic barrier in the base adjacent to the collector, and the Al introduction in layer 10 produces the compositional barrier. Further, the Al Referring next to Figure 3 which illustrates the band energy of the device under the influence of operating bias. The operating bias is such that with respect to the collector there is small positive bias between the emitter and base regions and a larger positive bias on the collector with respect to the base. The emitter to base bias is of a polarity to inject electrons onto the base. The collector to base bias is sufficient to maintain a nominally flat conduction band profile throughout layer 9, which acts to maintain constant kinetic energy of electrons traversing the base region, while at the same time it does not affect the action of the compositional barrier 10 to prevent electrons of the electron gas in the potential well in layer 11 from reaching the collector. The device offers sub picosecond response and precisely determined threshold or turn on voltages. At 77 degrees Kelvin temperature the electron gas that forms in the base adjacent the emitter interface has a very high conductivity despite its about 10 nm width. At low temperatures, a large majority of the electrons injected by the emitter can be expected to reach the collector contact, leading to large current gains. In operation, the injected current turns on strongly near an emitter to base voltage of 0.3V, and base to collector voltages near 1.5V are possible without limiting control of the injected current. One skilled in the art in fabricating a device with the specifications employed in this invention would conveniently select the well known technique of molecular beam epitaxy MBE since the technique permits fabrication to small dimensions and the temperatures employed are not so high as to move the impurities significantly. The MBE technique has been available for a number of years and it enables one skilled in the art to grow in an epitaxial manner semiconductors with thicknesses as small as around 2 nm and to produce sharp boundaries of the order of 0.5 nm. The fabrication of contacts to the various electrodes is done employing standard photolithographic processes. What has been described is a semiconductor ballistic electron velocity control structure wherein quantum mechanical conditions are provided in regions of the structure that provide optimum performance conditions for the carriers under operating bias.