# PROCESS FOR MAKING RFI SHIELDED PLASTIC ARTICLES

## Claims
Verfahren zur Herstellung eines Gegenstands oder einer Hülle mit einer elektromagnetischen Abschirmung bei einer Frequenz von mehr als 10 kHz, mit folgenden Schritten

## Description
The present invention relates to a process for making radio frequency interference RFI shielded plastic articles and enclosures useful with, for instance, electronic equipment. In a particular example, it relates to RFI shielded non conductive polymeric enclosures which have such electromagnetic shielding on just one side of said enclosure. It is often necessary to provide electromagnetic shielding for polymeric and other electrically non conductive enclosures used in electronic and radio equipment to prevent radiation such as radio frequency interference from being emitted from the equipment contained therein. Regulations of the Federal Communication Commission in the United States of America require that certain categories of electronic and computer equipment be enclosed by shields capable of substantially eliminating such RFI above about 10 kiloHertz in frequency. It is known that electrically conducting materials will effectuate electromagnetic radiation shielding in general and RFI shielding in particular. Accordingly, it is common practice to provide a metal coating on enclosures for electronic equipment. Among the techniques known to apply such a coating are the use of electrically conductive paints, flame or arc metal spraying, cathode sputtering, vacuum metallization, the application of metal foils and electroless deposition of one or more metal layers. However, to insure tight bonding of the coating to the underlying non conductive substrate and enclosure, it is usually necessary to pretreat the surface by methods involving abrading, etching and similar surface roughening techniques. If not applied with extreme care, such methods can cause discoloration, cracking, distortion, excessive surface stress and in extreme cases, the total destruction of the underlying substrate structure and or polymeric enclosure. Further, where the enclosure is to be used in an application where only the inside surface is to be coated and where either the exterior surface appearance is to remain unaltered and or the dimensional tolerances are a matter of some concern, the exterior must be protected in some fashion so as to preserve its color and surface finish. Where electrolessly deposited metallic coatings are involved, this usually involves the application of a resist or other type of strippable coating which will either prevent deposition on the side not to be altered or allow the removal of any deposits which have been laid down. Such procedures, in addition to increasing the overall costs of producing the shielding also tend to degrade to some degree the protected surface so that the finish and or colour may not be entirely suitable for the intended use. In such cases it is necessary to cover up these differences by one or more secondary operations such as mechanically buffing and or painting the degraded areas. Such approaches, when they work, tend to considerably increase both the time and cost of producing a finished enclosure. It is a primary object of the present invention to provide an improved process for applying RFI shielding to, for example, enclosures for electronic equipment. It is an object of certain forms of this invention to provide a process for applying RFI shielding to enclosures for electronic equipment wherein said shielding can be safely applied to just one side of said enclosure. It is still another object of certain forms of this invention to provide a process for applying RFI shielding to enclosures for electronic equipment wherein substantially no surface pretreatment is required. Another object is to provide a process for applying an electromagnetic shielding material capable of reducing electromagnetic radiation by at least 40 dB s above a frequency of 10 kHz. Accordingly, the present invention consists in one aspect in a process for producing an article or enclosure having electromagnetic shielding at a frequency greater than 10 kiloHertz, said process comprising selecting a suitable electrically non conductive article or enclosure applying to at least one side of said article or enclosure a primary layer comprising a fluid organic binder, having active metal particles dispersed therein, said binder being a paint selected from the class of acrylic paints, epoxy paints, urethane paints and oil based paints with said particles being chosen from the group consisting of nickel, copper, iron, cobalt, gold, silver, platinum, palladium and combinations thereof depositing onto said primary layer a second layer of electroless copper and depositing onto said second layer a third layer of an electroplated metal selected from the group consisting of electroplated nickel, copper, zinc, tin and alloys thereof or of electroless nickel, to provide an article or enclosure having a shielding of at least 40 dB s against electromagnetic radiation having a frequency greater than 10 kiloHertz. In the present invention the electrically non conductive base material used for a given enclosure may comprise any suitable material having the requisite structural strength or other characteristics desirable or necessary for the particular use to which the final product is to be put. Typically, this is a cabinet adapted to receive a radio, computer, microwave oven or similar electronic equipment and can be made of any suitable electrically non conductive or dielectric material, such as any thermosetting or thermoplastic resin or other suitable material which can be molded to produce finished enclosure. Generally, suitable moldable synthetic organic polymeric, i.e., plastic materials such as acrylonitrite butadiene styrene ABS , other synthetic organic polymeric materials such as, without limitation, polystyrene, polyphenylene oxide, and polycarbonate plastics, or any other suitable plastic or reinforced plastic material can be used. Other dielectric materials, such as glass, ceramic, glass fibre, reinforced ceramic, pressed fibre board or composite materials made therefrom are also known to be useful for such purposes and may therefore be used as the base material for the purpose of this invention. Unlike prior art processes which require that the surface of such materials be etched or mechanically roughened, before being coated, the process of the present invention requires no special surface treatment operation other than the normal cleanup used to remove traces of mold release, oil, dirt and other contamination which may be on the surface to be coated. To produce the product of the present invention, the enclosure to be shielded is first coated, most usually on its interior surface, with a primary layer comprised of a fluid organic binder said binder preferably having at least about 30 by weight finely divided metallic particles dispersed therein. The binder is a paint selected from the class of acrylic paints, epoxy paints, urethane paints and oil base paints. The requirements for the binder are that it provide a uniform suspension of the metallic particles when applied and that, when dry, it adheres to the surface being coated. The final metal binder ratio of the dried paint film is preferably at least about 50 by weight. The paint film thickness is not critical but is preferably in excess of 12.7 micrometers 0.5 mils . The paint can be applied by any conventional method such as brushing, spraying, dip coating and the like. When spraying is used, the paint may be thinned with between about 1 1 to about 1 3 paint thinner ratio with an organic diluent comprised of relatively volatile compounds including alcohols, esters, ketones and aromatic compounds such as benzine, toluene, xylene and the like, to achieve a proper consistency for spraying and even coating on the surface being protected. Suitable metals for use in the primary layer are those known to activate or catalyze the electroless deposition of copper thereon and include nickel, copper, iron, cobalt, gold, silver, platinum, palladium, and combinations thereof, with nickel and copper particles being preferred. For uniform and complete coverage, the particle size should preferably be in the range of about 0.5 to 10 micrometres. After air drying for about 4 hours at room temperature or for about 1 hour at about 60 The process of the present invention further involves laying down a second conductive layer. To prepare the paint layer to receive this added layer, the outmost surface of the paint is preferably first etched with a moderately concentrated caustic rinse to expose at least some of the metal particles embedded therein. With acrylic paint this can be done with a 5 20 by weight alkaline solution, made by dissolving NaOH, Na₂CO₃ and the like in water and etching the surface, at a temperature of between about 43 The second coating applied in the process of the present invention is an electrolessly deposited layer of copper using a conventionally supplied electroless plating solution. One such solution for copper is supplied by Enthone Corporation under the trademark designation Enplate Cu 9704. It will be readily understood by those in the art that other solutions adapted to electrolessly deposit copper on properly prepared surfaces may be utilized for this purpose. The third coating applied in the process of the present invention is a deposited layer of metal from the group consisting of electroplated nickel, copper, zinc, tin and alloys thereof and electroless nickel. For effective shielding the combined thickness of the second and third layers should be in the range of between about 1 to about 5 micrometres 40 to 200 microinches . A corresponding solution for electrolessly plating nickel is marketed under the trademark designation Enplate Ni 422, also by Enthone Corporation. For the process of the present invention, when using the Enthone produced products noted herein above, the electroless plating of Cu in a temperature range of between about 21 The process of the present invention further involves depositing onto said second layer a third layer of an electroplated metal selected from the group consisting of copper, nickel, zinc, tin or alloys thereof or of electroless nickel. When RFI shields are applied according to the process, as described above, enclosures having at least 40 dB shielding for RFI above about 10 kiloHertz are produced. Thus it can be seen that the present invention provides in one example a durable, effective RFI shielded enclosure with the shielding being applied to just one side thereof. In order to demonstrate the shielding effectiveness of compositions in accordance with the present invention, a series of plastic test panels were coated in accordance with the process of present invention and tested for the effectiveness in attenuating electromagnetic radiation in the radio frequency range. An acrylic paint, containing about 50 by weight nickel particles, said particles having a size range of about 1 to about 5 micrometres, said paint being diluted with 2 parts of an alcohol ester thinner, was sprayed onto one side of a test panel to a thickness of between 12.7 to 25.4 micrometres 0.5 and 1 mil at 241.325x10³ Pa 35 lbs per sq. inch air pressure to produce a dried paint film having a metal to binder ratio of about 70 . The paint was allowed to dry for four hours in open air after which it was etched with a 10 caustic solution at 60 The now deoxidized panel was electroless plated in Enplate Cu 9704 at 48 The process of Example 1 was repeated with a sprayed paint thickness of 20 to 25 micrometres .8 to 1.0 mils and with the following results being obtained The process of Example 1 was repeated with the diluent being one part of a mixture of 1 1 diacetone alcohol and isopropyl alcohol. No further processing beyond that of Example 1 was done. The following results were obtained. The process of Example 1 was repeated with a spray thickness of 56 to 60 micrometres 2.2 to 2.4 mils . The process of Example 1 was repeated with the exception that the paint produced a dried film having a metal to binder ratio of about 80 copper particles having a size range of 1 to 5 micrometres. The following results were obtained