# DIESTER DTPA PARAMAGNETIC CONTRAST AGENTS FOR MRI IMAGING, APPARATUS AND METHODS

## Claims
Physiologisch verträglicher Komplex eines polyvalenten paramagnetischen Metallions und eines linearen C₁ ₁₆ Alkylesters der Diethylentriaminpentaessigsäure.

## Description
This invention relates to magnetic resonance imaging MRI contrast agents, and more particularly to contrast agents comprising paramagnetic metal complexes of esters of diethylenetriaminepentaacetic acid DTPA . DE A 3129906 Schering Gries et al teaches the incorporation of paramagnetic metals into DTPA to form chelates useful as contrast agents in magnetic resonance imaging. The contrast agent DTPA Gd III as taught by Schering is insoluble in water and requires the addition of cations C amines such as glucamine and N methylglucamine as shown below. The charge balance of the Schering s DTPA Gd III is The resulting contrast agent has three ion particles in solution for each paramagnetic atom PM a particle to PM ratio of 3 1. A paramagnetic metal with a valence of two, such as Mn, would require an additional glucamine ion raising the particle to PM ratio to 4 1. These contrast agents raise the The present invention is based on the discovery that by esterifying one or more of the carboxy groups of the chelating agent DTPA the paramagnetic metal complexes of the modified chelating agents Ester DTPA are improved MRI contrast agents in that they have high stability, low toxicity and are physiologically tolerable. The improved Ester DTPA PM contrast agents of the invention may be provided in pharmacological form having a low osmolarity and may be organ selective. Thus in one aspect the present invention provides a physiologically tolerable complex of a polyvalent paramagnetic metal ion and a C₁ ₁₆ or C₁₈ linear alkyl ester of diethylenetriaminepentaacetic acid. In a further aspect the invention also provides a magnetic resonance imaging contrast medium composition comprising a physiologically tolerable complex of paramagnetic metal ion and a C₁ ₁₆ linear alkyl ester of DTPA together with a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier. In a yet further aspect the invention provides the use of a physiologically tolerable complex of a paramagnetic metal ion and a C₁ ₁₆ linear alkyl ester of DTPA for the manufacture of a magnetic resonance imaging contrast medium composition. The chemically stable, physiologically tolerable contrast agents may be provided in a pharmacological state for The Ester DTPA may for example be a homo diester or a heterodiester. The Ester DTPA PM contrast agent may be dispersed in a pharmaceutically acceptable vehicle means carrier such as water. The carbon hydrogen portion of the ester compound becomes associated with water of hydration which increases the paramagnetic strength of the contrast agent. The PM ion may have a valence of 3 and produce a contrast agent molecule of zero net charge. The PM ion may have a valence of 2 and require an inert cation IN having an atomic charge to produce a molecule with a zero net charge. The paramagnetic metal ion PM Z may be the ion of one of the Transition Elements 24 29 or the Lanthanide Elements 57 71. The invention will now be further illustrated with reference to the accompanying drawings, in which The paramagnetic contrast agents of the present invention include ester homologs of DTPA PM chelates having the general chemical name diester acetyl diethlenetriaminetriacetic acid or Diester DTPA . The probable physical chelation structure of Diester DTPA PM is a classic octahedron 8 faces, 6 apexes as shown in Figure 1A. The Diester DTPA homologs are strong chelators with six polar bond coordination points 104 three nitrogen points 104 N and three oxygen points 104 0 which enclose the paramagnetic ion PM Z on all sides. Diester DTPA PM has the general chemical structure shown in Figure 1B. The homologs of Diester DTPA PM Z have similar structures with a specific number n of carbons in the carbon hydrogen portion of the ester group. The number of carbons in the alkylene chain between the COO active group and the terminal methyl CH₃, is n 1 . Two of the original five DTPA carboxy groups have become ester groups E . In general and PM is a paramagnetic metal ion. The elimination of two carboxy groups reduces the ion charge of the DTPA chelator from five to three. Paramagnetic ions having a valence of Z 3 as shown in Figure 1A and 1B, produce a diester contrast agent of the general form The particle osmolarity to paramagnetic molar relaxivity ratio for Diester DTPA PM 3 type contrast agents Z 3 is 1 1. The Diester DTPA PM Z contrast agents formed around paramagnetic metal ions having a charge of 3 can be prepared in highly concentrated solutions while retaining isotonicity with body fluids. The Schering DTPA PM 3 contrast agent has a particle to paramagnetic metal ion ratio of 3 1, and can only be made in isotonic solutions at substantially lower concentrations. Therefore, greater volumes of the Schering DTPA PM 3 contrast agent need be injected into animals or humans to obtain the same paramagnetic effect. Paramagnetic metal ions having a valence of Z 2, produce ester contrast agents of the general form The particle to paramagnetic metal ion ratio for the Diester DTPA PM 2 ,IN contrast agents is 2 1, producing a low osmolarity impact. The above Diester DTPA PM Type III and Type II contrast agents have a higher paramagnetic effect than the Schering DTPA PM contrast agent. For example, Methylester DTPA Gd III requires a concentration of only about 1.91 mM to produce a T₁ relaxation time of 67 msec 10 MHz field strength, using an RADX . The concentration of Schering s DTPA Gd III required to produce a similar result is about 3.16 mM. Methylester DTPA Gd III has about twice the paramagnetism of Schering s DTPA Gd III and Methylester DTPA Fe III has about 1.3 times the paramagnetism of Schering s DTPA Fe III . Possibly the water of hydration 108 see Figure 1A which collects around the ester CH₂ chains offers a reliable source of protons 110 for resonanting with the applied MRI fields. Protons 110 have a high probability of being present within the local magnetic field of the PM ions. These protons form a class of protons for MRI imaging which is distinct from random A general anhydride diester method, as illustrated in Figures 2 and 3, is suitable for making each homolog of the ester family of Ester DTPA PM contrast agents. In the example below, the paramagnetic ion is provided by Fe III Cl₃ for chelation into the dimethyl ester n 1 . However, other paramagnetic ions in other forms may be employed for chelation into other ester homologs. Thus in a further aspect the invention provides a process for the manufacture of Diester DTPA PM complexes comprising heating an anhydride of diethylaminetriaminepentaacetic acid with a C₁ ₁₆ n alkan 1 ol and subsequently contacting the ester chelating agent thereby produced with a solution containing a paramagnetic metal cation. The family of Ester DTPA PM contrast agents include the homo diester n n structure and the hetero diester n not equal to n structure. The hetero diesters may have one short alkylene chain n 1 or more , and one long alkylene chain n 16 less . A single long hydrophobic chain, together with the charged DTPA residue, renders the chelate an isosteric substitute for fatty acids and produces substantial tissue levels of the chelate in those organs which have efficient fatty acid uptake systems, such as the myocardium. Contrast agents according to the invention introduced into the systemic vasculature are immediately distributed through the circulatory system for imaging. The distribution to organs is based on relative blood flow. Organs such as kidney, brain, liver and heart receive substantial blood flow and therefore provide selective images which are correspondingly enhanced. The higher homologs of Ester DTPA PM tend to be less polar and to bind to serum proteins prolonging their circulation time. They also tend to be extracted from circulation by the liver and excreted in the hepatobiliary system. These homologs are liver selective and suitable for imaging the liver and hepatobiliary gall bladder system. The lower homologs tend to be more polar and remain in solution longer. They are eventually absorbed by the kidney. These homologs are kidney selective and suitable for imaging the kidney, ureter and bladder. The higher homologs are fatty acids analogs and are thus extracted by the heart along with the regular fatty acids. These homologs n 7 and greater are cardiac selective and suitable for imaging the cardiac system and cardiac related functions. The Diester DTPA PM contrast agents in stable powder state have an indefinite shelf life, and this is the preferred state for shipping and storage. The contrast agent in water solution or other solvent is packaged in small storage vials, and frozen under a vacuum. The low pressure sublimates the solvent, leaving crystals of the contrast agent. The vial is sealed to prevent entry of external contaminants, and to preserve the internal vacuum. The resulting freeze dried, vacuum sealed powder, is highly stable and free from environmental degradation effects. Prior to injection, the stable powdered contrast agent may be raised to the pharmacological state by the addition of a suitable solvent such as water, serum, albumin solutions, or saline. A typical injectable composition contains about 10mg human serum albumin 1 percent USP Parke Davis and from 10 to 500 micrograms of Diester DTPA PM material per millilitre of 0.01 M phosphate buffer pH 7.5 containing 0.9 percent NaCl. The pH of the aqueous solutions may range between 5 9, preferably between 6 8. The storage vial may have twin compartments containing the desired amounts of powdered Diester DTPA PM and solvent for a single application. When the seal between the compartments is broken, the Diester DTPA PM goes into solution at the desired concentration for immediate use. The Diester DTPA PM solution mixes readily with the The paramagnetic species PM may be any paramagnetic element, molecule, ion or compound having a combined valence of Z . Paramagnetic material PM includes at least one of the following elements Gd has the highest paramagnetic property but is costly and is highly toxic in the free state. Placing the Gd within the chelator produces a physiologically tolerable form of Gd but also reduces the paramagnetic effect of the Gd. The chelate structure tends to shield the paramagnetic ions and prevents close proximity to local protons. Fe and Mn have a high paramagnetic property and excellent physiological tolerance. Both of these paramagnetic ions are normally present in the physiological environment. A magnetic resonance imaging system and its use are discussed in WO A 86 02005 and discussed further in Scientific American, May 1982, pages 78 88.