# Paste containing a eutectic composition, method of forming such a paste and its application

## Abstract
The paste comprises a eutectic composition of Cu₂O and P₂O₅, an organic vehicle and optionally particulate copper. The method of forming the metal paste composition includes the steps of forming a particulate material of a eutectic composition of Cu₂O and P₂O₅, and combining the eutectic material with an organic vehicle and optionally Cu particles. The paste, when fired, achieves firm adhesives between metal conductors and ceramic and glass substrates.

## Claims
1. Paste containing a particulate eutectic composition of Cu₂O and P₂O₅ and an organic vehicle.

## Description
The invention relates to the formation of a firm adhesive bond between metal conductors and ceramic or glass substrates. Conductive compositions for thick film conductors made from noble metals containing a noble metal and a glass frit dispersed in an inert liquid vehicle are well known in the electronics art. Beneficial characteristics such as low resistivity, good solderability, and adhesion to a ceramic substrate vary according to the particular ingredients selected. An electrically conductive useful composition containing a silver metal is described in U.S. Patent No. 4,001,146. The high cost of silver and other noble metals has led to the search for other less expensive conductor metals. Copper is a leading contender in this category. A particularly troublesome problem with noble metal conductors is their very prevalent lack of adhesion to the supporting substrate, in particular glass, ceramic or glass ceramic surfaces. In the electronic packaging technology it is important that internal metallurgy, as well as surface metal patterns adhere well to the supporting substrate. Usually, the surface features of the conductive metal pattern serve as the point of connection to a semiconductor device or passive device such as a resistor or capacitor, etc. In addition, it may be necessary to bond I O elements such as pins and other connections to pads associated with the metal pattern. When the adhesion between the pad and the substrate is poor, the connection between the device, I O element, etc. is also poor. Glass frit has been added to conductive paste embodying noble metals and copper metals to improve the bond between the re sultant metal stripe and pad and substrate, as described in U.S. 3,943,l68, and or 4,072,77l. However, this expedient has not been successful to materially strengthen the interface bond between a the screened on metal pattern and the inorganic ceramic substrate. The resultant interface bond is not generally sufficient to meet the demands of the electronic industry. In addition, frit bonded conductors have generally been found to develop glass rich interlayers between the conductor and the ceramic substrate after firing. This interface inhibits its heat transfer between the conductor and the substrate, and being brittle, is subject to cracking during thermal cycling with concomitant loss of adherence. It is also a region of low electrical conductivity. U.S. Patent No. 4,323,483 discloses in thick film copper conductor compositions the addition of lead oxide and bismuth oxide dispersed in an inert liquid vehicle. While the adhesion is improved, the improvement is not sufficient to meet the needs of the electronic packaging industry. An object of this invention is to provide a composition and a method for bonding metal elements such as metal particles i.e. copper, etc., elements such as I O pins, covers, and heat sinks to a ceramic or glass substrate. Another object of this invention is to provide a composition and a method for forming conductive metallurgy patterns on ceramic or glass substrates having superior adhesions between the pattern and the substrate. These objects are achieved by a paste according to claim 1, a method according to claim 8 and an application method according to claim 12. This invention provides a new conductor composition especially suitable for thick film copper conductor patterns that, when fired, exhibit excellent adhesion to a ceramic, glass or glass ceramic substrate surface. This superior adhesion is produced by embodying in the conductor composition a eutectic composition that will form an effective bond between the inorganic substrate surface and the copper particles in the composition or copper elements. The composition can include Cu particles when it is used for forming electrically conductive metal stripes. The application method can be used to bond particulate copper particles to the substrate, or in the alternative, to bond elements such as I O pins, covers, heat sinks, etc. to surfaces formed of ceramic or glass. The invention also relates to a process for forming a copper conductor pattern on an inorganic substrate that has excellent adhesion between the resultant metallic pattern and the supporting substrate. Preferred embodiments of the inventive paste, the inventive method for forming the paste and the application method are disclosed in the subclaims. A more complete understanding of the present invention can be obtained by considering the following detailed description in conjunction with the accompanying drawings in which In this invention an ingredient is added to a bonding composition that bonds to both the metal and ceramic or glass when heated. It involves the recognition that a specific eutectic material, that melts at a reasonably low temperature, has a phosphate that interacts and bonds to the oxide of the ceramic or glass, and also a cuprous oxide which will bond to metal most preferably copper. The invention is a solution to a very troublesome problem in the semiconductor packaging technology, and possibly in other technologies, i.e. that of obtaining a consistent and firm bond between metals that have high conductivity and a supporting glass, ceramic or glass ceramic surface. Adhesion between copper and ceramic is improved by having an interface of very low energy. This can be achieved when copper chemically reacts with the oxide substrate and a thin layer is formed at the interface that contains the copper and elements of the ceramic. Since oxide interacts strongly with P₂O₅ and forms stable phosphates, the addition of small amounts of copper phosphates to copper result in a low energy reactive interface between the copper and the ceramic substrate. Referring now to Fig. 2 of the drawings, there is depicted a partial phase diagram of Cu₂O and P₂O₅. As is indicated, a first eutectic is formed of a combination of Cu₂O and CuPO₃ with a melting point of 805 C. In addition, a second eutectic of CuPO₃ and a higher copper phosphate also can be formed having a melting point of 935 C. In the practice of our invention, either the first eutectic or the second eutectic depicted in Fig. 2 can be used in the practice thereof. Referring now to Fig. 1 of the drawing, block 10 indicates the first step of the method of my invention, i.e. forming the eutectic composition for use in the bonding composition. Either of the eutectic compositions depicted in Fig. 2 can be used in the practice of my invention. Basically forming the eutectic involves combining Cu₂O and a compound that will provide P₂O₅. A preferred ingredient is ammonium hydrogen phosphate. P₂O₅ could be used directly, but this requires that the mixing and heating be done in an a sealed system other suitable sources of P₂O₅ can be used. After the Cu₂O and ammonium hydrogen phosphate have been combined in the desired proportions, the mixture is heated to the eutectic temperature as indicated by block 12. The eutectic temperature depends on which eutectic is being formed. If it is desired to form the first eutectic with a melting point of 805 C, the mole percent of Cu₂O in Cu₂O and P₂O₅ mixture should be in the range of 100 to 50, more preferably from 65 to 55. The ingredients need not be combined in the precise molar ratio of the eutectic since an excess of either the Cu₂O and P₂O₅ is not detrimental in the composition. When the second eutectic with a melting point of 935 C is desired, the mole percent of Cu₂O in the mixture of the Cu₂O and P₂O₅ should be less than 50, more particularly from 45 to 35. While both eutectics work in the practice of the invention, the second eutectic is preferred. When using either the first or second eutectic, it is generally advisable to use an inert gas such as nitrogen, argon, helium or wet inert gas with a controlled dew point during the process. As indicated in block 14, the eutectic material after heating is allowed to cool and then is ground up to form a particulate material. The material can be ground in any suitable manner that is well known in the art. Preferably, the particles of the eutectic should have an average diameter of the order of 2 6 mm. The resultant particulate eutectic material is then combined with a suitable inert liquid vehicle, to form a paste as indicated in block 16 of Fig. 1. Any suitable vehicle can be used to form the paste, as for example, butyl carbitol acetate based organic. The vehicle is used in any suitable proportion, normally constituting 5 to 40 weight percent of the total mixture. When the paste is to be used to form an electrically conductive metallurgy system, or a solderable area, copper particles are included. The basic paste of the eutectic and vehicle will bond copper elements, such as particles, pins, enclosures, heat sinks, clamps, etc. to any oxide ceramic material. The particulate copper can be combined in the paste in any suitable amount, typically forming 60 to 95 percent by weight of the total mixture. Other ingredients can also be added to the paste to vary its physical characteristics such as viscosity, surface tension, etc. In general, the amount of eutectic material in the paste can vary from 0.5 to 15 percent by weight. As indicated in block 18, the copper paste of the invention is deposited on a ceramic or glass substrate. The deposition pattern is tailored to achieve the desired objective. The paste can be deposited in the form of an electrically conductive metallurgy pattern or solderable pattern on a semiconductor package substrate, or alternatively be deposited for bonding elements such as pins, electrical contacts, covers, heat sinks, and the like. When the paste is used to bond an element to a substrate, the element is placed in contact with the paste and preferably secured thereto. Normally the element to be secured is formed of copper or copper alloy. However, other metals can be secured by the process of the invention. As indicated in block 20 of Fig. 2, the substrate is then heated to a temperature above the eutectic temperature of the texture of the paste in order to remove the organic vehicle and any other associated organic compounds of the paste, and bond the copper particles of the paste to each other and to the ceramic or glass material of the eutectic material. When the paste without copper particles is used as a bonding material, it bonds the metal element to the ceramic surface. As mentioned previously, the heating operation should be under a wet or dry inert atmosphere. In the case of second eutectic, the heating can be done in an atmosphere where oxygen partial pressure is slightly less than that required to form Cu₂O because the phosphate eutectic will not decompose under these conditions. The following examples are presented to depict preferred specific embodiments of the method and composition of the invention and should not be construed to unduly limit the scope and patent protection of the claims. A particulate compound of the first eutectic, as depicted in Fig. 2, was prepared by combining and mixing cuprous oxide Cu₂O and ammonium hydrogen phosphate NH₄ ₂HPO₄ powders. The quantities of the powders was measured and adjusted so that the composition was 53 weight percent Cu₂O and 47 weight percent NH₄ ₂ HPO₄. After the powders were intimately mixed by grinding, the mixture was slowly heated in a platinum crucible in a N₂ ambient to 500 C, the temperature held for 1 hour, and cooled to room temperature. During this heating NH₄ ₂ HPO₄ reacts with Cu₂O to make the phosphate and gaseous N₂ and₂ by products are driven off. The resultant mixture was then re ground and heated to 850 C in a platinum crucible for l hour in a N₂ ambient, cooled at a fast rate to room temperature, and again ground into powder. The final powder has the composition of 62 mole percent Cu₂O and 38 mole percent P₂O₅. This powdered eutectic material is now ready for use in the bonding process and composition of the invention. A particulate compound of the second eutectic, as depicted in Fig. 2 was prepared. The same basic procedure described in Example 1 was followed except that the composition was 28.2 weight percent Cu₂O and 7l.8 percent NH₄ ₂ HPO₄. Further the temperature of the second heating step was 950 C. The final composition is 42 mole percent Cu₂O and 58 mole percent P₂O₅. The resultant powdered eutectic material of the second eutectic composition was now ready for use in the bonding process and composition of the invention. An electrically conductive composition of the invention was prepared by mixing copper particles, with an average diameter of 2 mm, powder of the second eutectic, as described in Example 2, and in liquid organic vehicle. The resultant mixture had the following composition The same procedure described in Example 3 was repeated to bond Kovar pins to a cordierite type ceramic substrate that contained Mg O, Al₂O₃, and SiO₂. The firing and testing was done as previously described. The average adhesion strength of the pin bond was 50,26 N 11.3 pounds which translates into an adhesion strength of 282,7 bar 4100 psi . In order to compare the adhesive strength obtained with the process and composition of the invention with the bond strength obtained by pastes in the art, a conductive paste was prepared which contained the following The same paste pattern described in Example 3 was deposited and fired with the aforedescribed conductive paste, which did not include the eutectic powder, on cordierite substrates as described in Example 4. Pins were bonded to the pads and pull tested as described in Example 3. The average adhesion strength was determined to be less than 96,5 bar 1400 psi .