# Easy entry seat adjuster

## Abstract
An easy entry seat adjuster includes upper 12 and lower 14 track members which are slidable relative to each other. A carrier member 50 is slidably mounted on both track members and mounts a latch member 60 having latch arms 64,66 engageable within an opening 42 of the upper track member and any one of a series of openings 48 in the lower track member. Manual movement of the latch member out of engagement with an opening 48 of the lower track member permits horizontal adjustment of the seat as the latch member carrier and upper track member move relative to the lower track member. Movement of the latch member out of engagement with the opening 42 of the upper track member by a seat back actuated cam 102 on the upper track member permits displacement of the upper track member between a horziontally adjusted position and easy entry position.

## Claims
1. An easy entry seat adjuster comprising a pair of track members 12,14 , a bearing assembly slidably mounting one track member on the other track member for horizontal adjustment relative thereto, one track member 12 having an opening 42 therein and the other track member 14 having a plurality of openings 48 therein, each pairable with the opening of the one track member to define a horizontally adjusted position of the track members, charactersied by a latch mechanism comprising a latch member 60 including a pair of latch arms 64,66 , one latch arm 64 being movable into and out of the opening of the one track member and the other latch arm 66 being movable into and out of each of the openings of the other track member, biasing means 70 normally locating the one latch arm in the one opening and the other latch arm in an opening of the other track member to releasably latch the track members to each other in a horizontal adjusted position, first release means 84 moving the other latch arm 66 out of the opening of the other track member to permit movement of the one track member 12 and the latch mechanism as a unit relative to the other track member 14 to a new horizontally adjusted position relative thereto, the reengagement of the other latch arm 66 in another opening 48 of the other track member releasably latching the track members to each other in the new horizontally adjusted position, and second release means 102,108,114 for moving the one latch arm 64 from the opening 42 in the one track member 12 to permit movement of the one track member relative to the other track member and the latch mechanism from an initial starting position to an easy entry position, return of the one track member to the initial starting position reengaging the one latch arm in the opening of the one track member to releasably latch the one track member to the other track member in the initial starting position.

## Description
This invention relates generally to easy entry seat adjusters and more particularly to such easy entry seat adjusters for moving a vehicle seat to a plurality of horizontally adjusted positions and from an adjusted position to a forwardly displaced easy entry position and return to the adjusted position. Easy entry seat adjusters of this general type are well known. Such easy entry seat adjusters generally include a pair of track members which are horizontally slidable relative to each other and are interconnected in various manners to obtain horizontal adjustment as well as movement between a horizontal adjusted or initial starting position, a forwardly displaced easy entry position, and return to the initial starting position. Such an arrangement is disclosed, for example, in US Patent No 4,508,385. In accordance with the present invention, an easy entry seat adjuster is characterised by the features specified in the characterising portion of Claim 1. One of the features of this invention is that it provides an easy entry seat adjuster which includes a pair of upper and lower track members and a latch mechanism which is latchable to both track members or is latchable to one track member and released from the other to provide various combinations of horizontal movement of the track members relative to each other. When the latch mechanism latches the track members to each other, the track members are releasably latched in one of a plurality of horizontally adjusted positions. When the latch mechanism is released from the lower track member while remaining latched to the upper track member, the upper track member and latch mechanism can be moved as a unit to another horizontally adjusted position relative to the lower track member. The reengagement of the latch mechanism with the lower track member latches the track members to each other in the new horizontally adjusted position. When the latch mechanism is released from the upper track member while remaining latched to the lower track member, the upper track member can be horizontally moved from an initial starting position to a forwardly displaced easy entry position and can be returned to the initial starting position wherein the latch mechanism reengages the upper track member so that the upper track member is again latched to the lower track member in the initial starting position. Another feature is that the latch mechanism is releasable from the lower track member by actuation by an operator and is releasable from the upper track member by tilting movement of the seat back of a vehicle seat mounted to the upper track member. A further feature is that the latch mechanism includes a carrier member which is slidable relative to both track members and mounts a latch member having latch arms which are engageable within openings in each of the track members, with the upper track member including one opening and the lower track member including a plurality of openings, each of which is pairable with the one opening to define a horizontally adjusted position of the track members relative to each other. Yet another feature is that the latch mechanism is resiliently located in a normal neutral position wherein the latch arms engage in openings of both track members and is moved against a resilient bias to a position wherein one latch arm engages an opening of one track member while the other latch arm is disengaged from an opening of the other track member. This invention is further described, by way of example, with reference to the following specification and drawings wherein Referring now particularly to Figures 1 through 9 of the drawings, an easy entry seat adjuster 10 according to this invention includes an upper track member 12 and a lower track member 14. The track members 12 and 14 are conventional. As shown in Figures 6 through 9, the upper track member 12 includes a base wall 16, a pair of side walls 18 which are depending and a pair of terminal flanges 20 which are arcuate. The lower track member 14 includes a base wall 22 which is juxtaposed to base wall 16, a pair of side walls 24 which are juxtaposed to respective side walls 18, and a pair of terminal flanges 26 which are arcuate and juxtaposed to respective terminal flanges 20. The lower track member 14 is supported on the floor pan of a vehicle body by front and rear support brackets 28 and 30 respectively. The upper track member 12 is supported on the lower track member 14 for horizontal sliding movement by a bearing assembly, not shown, which can either be conventional or as shown in our copending application No. 86300891.8 filed 10 February 1986. An upper control plate 32 is welded to the base wall 16 of upper track member 12 and is cantilevered outwardly therefrom. The upper control plate 32 includes a forward depending apertured ear 34 and a rearward depending ear 36 which has an aperture 38 and a slot 40, for purposes to be described. The upper control plate 32 also includes a single closed slot or opening 42. A lower control plate 44 is secured to the base wall 22 of the lower track member 14 by the same rivets 46 which secure the front support bracket 28 thereto. The lower control plate 44 is cantilevered outwardly of the lower track member 14 and includes a series of closed slots or openings 48 any one of which is pairable with the opening 42 to define a horizontally adjusted position of the upper track member 12 relative to the lower track member 14 as will be further described. The latch mechanism for the track members 12 and 14 includes a carrier member 50 having a base wall 52 which abuts the outboard side wall 18 of the upper track member 12 and spaced pairs of front and rear legs 54 and 56 respectively, which extend outwardly. The upper front and rear legs 54 and 56 frictionally engage the lower surface of the upper control plate 32 and the lower front and rear legs 54 and 56 frictionally engage the upper surface of the lower control plate 44. The base wall 52 of the carrier member 50 includes an embossment 58, Figures 9 and 10, which is outwardly offset and which pivotally mounts a latch member 60 at 62. The latch member 60, as best shown in Figures 3 through 5, includes a pair of oppositely extending upper and lower latch arms 64 and 66 respectively and a forwardly extending nose or cam edge portion 68. Biasing means in the form of a spring 70 of the hairpin type is coiled around a lateral tab 72 of the carrier member 50. The arms 74 and 76 of the spring 70 cross each other, Figures 3 through 5, and have their respective lateral ends 78 and 80 engaging the upper and lower sides of latch member 60 and a lateral tab 82 of the carrier member 50. A release rod 84 which is manually operable, is journaled in the forwarding depending apertured ear 34 of the upper control plate 32 and also within the aperture 38 of rearward depending ear 36. The release rod 84 defines first release means and includes a crank portion 86, Figures 2 and 6, which is located adjacent a lateral pin 88 of the latch member 60. A wire spring 90 has its forward bent end 92 hooked within the opening of the forward depending apertured ear 34, Figure 2, and its rearward bent end 94 received within a bore through the release rod 84. The wire spring 90 maintains the release rod 84 in its unactuated position shown in Figures 2 and 6 and resists clockwise movement thereof as viewed in Figures 6 through 8 inclusive. A conventional vehicle seat, not shown, is mounted on the upper track member 12 and includes a support bracket at 96 in Figure 1 which mounts a seat back 98, which can tilt forward, of the seat. A structure such as this is conventional and is therefore not shown in detail. A lever 100 is fixed to the seat back 98 for movement with the seat back between a normal upright position as shown in Figure 1, and a tilted position, counterclockwise of this normal position, not shown. A cam plate 102 is pivoted at 104 to the upper control plate 32. The cam plate 102 is best shown in detail in Figures 10 and 11 and includes an offset portion 106 having a cam edge 108 which is engageable with the cam edge portion 68 of the latch member 60 as will be decribed. The offset portion 106 of the cam plate 102 has a key slot 110 and receives a ball 112 attached to the forward end of a flexible cable 114, Figures 1 and 10. A partial sheath 116 for the flexible cable 114 has its forward grooved end anchored within the slot 40 of rearward depending ear 36 as shown in Figures 7, 8 and 9. The rearward end of the flexible cable 114 is secured at 118 to the lever 100 as shown in Figure 1. Cam plate 102, cam edge 108 and flexible cable 114 define second release means. Assume now that the track members 12 and 14 are in the position shown in Figures 1 and 2 and it is desired to move the upper track member 12 to another horizontal adjusted position. The seat occupant will grasp a handle portion 120 of the release rod 84 and rotate the release rod clockwise, as viewed in Figures 6 and 7, within the forward depending apertured ear 34 and the rearward depending ear 36 of the upper control plate 32. This engages the crank portion 86 of the release rod 84 with the lateral pin 88 of the latch member 60 to move the latch member 60 from its latched position shown in Figures 3 and 6 to its first released position shown in Figures 4 and 7. The rotational movement of the release rod 84 is against the bias of the wire spring 90 and the movement of the latch member 60 to the first released position is against the bias of the arm 74 of the spring 70. When the latch member 60 moves to this released position, the lower latch arm 66 thereof moves out of engagement with one of the openings 48 of the lower control plate 44 so that the upper track member 12, the carrier member 50 and the latch member 60 move as a unit relative to the lower track member 14 to another horizontally adjusted position. When the desired position is attained the operator releases the handle portion 120. The wire spring 90 returns the release rod 84 to its position shown in Figure 6 and the arm 74 of spring 70 returns the latch member 60 into engagement with another of the openings 48 of the lower control plate 44 which is at or adjacent the desired position. This latches the upper track member 12 to the lower track member 14 in the new horizontally adjusted position. When it is desired to move the seat from a horizontally adjusted position or initial starting position to a forwardly displaced easy entry position, the operator tilts the seat back 98 forwardly or counterclockwise as viewed in Figure 1. The lever 100 rotates with the seat back 98 and shifts the flexible cable 114 rearwardly in partial sheath 116 to rotate the cam plate 102 clockwise as viewed in Figures 2 and 10 or counterclockwise as viewed in Figure 11. The cam edge 108 of the cam plate 102 engages the cam edge portion 68 of the latch member 60. This rotates the latch member 60 counterclockwise about the pivot 62 from its position shown in Figure 3 to its position shown in Figure 5 against the bias of the arm 76 of spring 70. When the upper latch arm 64 is moved out of engagement with opening 42, the upper track member 12 can be shifted forwardly with respect to the lower track member 14 to the easy entry position. Once the upper track member 12 has started to move forwardly and opening 42 is out of alignment with upper latch arm 64, the seat back 98 can be returned to the upright position if desired. The sliding engagement of the upper latch arm 64 with the inner surface of the upper control plate 32 permits continued forward sliding movement of the upper track member 12. As the upper track member 12 is returned from the easy entry position to the initial starting position, the seat back 98 is returned upright to its position shown in Figure1, if not already returned, and the upper track member 12 moved rearwardly. As soon as the upper latch arm 64 comes into registry with the opening 42, the arm 76 of spring 70 moves the upper latch arm into the opening to again latch the seat in its initial starting position. Thus this invention provides an improved easy entry seat adjuster.