# Integrated electronic multiplex circuit and integrated electronic circuit including such a multiplex circuit

## Abstract
The multiplex circuit inludes a cascade connection of flip flop elements 118,120,122 for producing a high data rate multiplexsignal. In order to avoid disturbances caused by parallel loading the flip flop circuits, the slave section 130 of the flip flop generating the multiplexsignal is not parallel loaded, which results in a continuous outputsignal. This way of loading requires a specific flip flop circuit as shown in the description.

## Claims
1. An integrated electronic multiplex circuit which includes N N 1 data inputs, a data output for a multiplexed signal, a clock input for receiving a clock signal, and a start input for receiving a start signal, data on the N data inputs appearing sequentially on the data output, after the occurrence of a first state of the binary start signal, under the control of the clock signal, characterized in that the multiplex circuit includes a shift register which includes a cascade connection of N flip flop circuits each having a master section and a slave section, ... upon reception of the first state of the start signal and a first state of the clock signal, the master section of the nth 1 n N flip flop circuit assuming a binary state corresponding to the data on the nth data input while the slave section of the nthflip flop circuit simultaneously assumes a binary state corresponding to the data on the n 1th data input, with the exception of the slave section of the Nth flip flop circuit, the state of which remains the same and an output of which is connected to the data output.............

## Description
The invention relates to an integrated electronic multiplex circuit which includes N N 1 data inputs, a data output for a multiplexed signal, a clock input for receiving a clock signal, and a start input for receiving a start signal, data on the N data inputs appearing sequentially on the data output, after the occurence of a first state of the binary start signal, under the control of the clock signal. The invention also relates to an integrated electronic circuit which includes a multiplex circuit............................... A circuit of this kind is disclosed in Digest of Technical Papers of the IEEE International Solid State Circuits Conference, pages 206 207 which shows a block diagram of a video memory which includes a multiplex circuit. However, it is not shown how this circuit can be realised. The conversion of a constant stream of parallel data into an uninterrupted multiplexed signal at a very high clock frequency for example, some tens of MHz imposes special requirements on the multiplex circuit. Moreover, the muliplex circuit must be suitable for integration on the same semiconductor substrate as the memory field............................................ The multiplex circuit in said video memory could be constructed by using a switching network with transfer gates as in the known Philips IC HEF 4512B and a binary counter. The start signal sets a given count in the binary counter, which count is incremented by each clock signal pulse. The counter indicates the data input which is connected by the switching network, to the data output for generating the multiplexed signal thereon. However this solution is too slow for use with such high clock frequencies moreover it occupies a large amount of surface area when it is integrated. The switching network includes a number of parellel conductors which apply the control signals from the counter to the transfer gates. Particularly at such high clock frequencies the invariably occurring phase differences between the signals on these parallel conductors cause disturbances in the multiplexed signal, which are more pronounced as the clock frequency increases and which ultimately inhibit the supply of relevant data by the multiplex circuit.............................................................. It is an object of the invention to provide a multiplex circuit which is capable of generating a continuous data stream with a high switching speed and which is suitable for integration on a semiconductor substrate.................................................. To achieve this, a multiplex circuit in accordance with the invention is characterized in that the multiplex circuit includes a shift register which includes a cascade connection of N flip flop circuits each having a master section and a slave section, the master section of the n The shift register is smaller than the switching network with the binary counter. When the first state of the start signal and the clock signal is received, the slave section of a flip flop circuit and the master section of the subsequent flip flop circuit are simultaneously loaded with the data on the associated data input. The loading of flip flop circuits requires a given amount of time. Resulting disturbances of the multiplexed signal can be prevented by loading the shift register in the described manner...................... A first preferred embodiment of the invention is characterized in that the master section of the first flip flop circuit assumes a first binary state upon reception of a second state of the start signal and the first state of the clock signal, the start signal being switched to the second state after all flip flop circuits have assumed a state corresponding to the data on the associated data inputs, the start signal being maintained in the second state during N 1 subsequent first states of the clock signal........... When the sections of the flip flop circuits to be loaded have a given binary state prior to loading, the means for loading these sections can be simplified. These loading means must merely be capable of switching, if necessary, the master section or slave section from the first to the second binary state. Consequently, the loading means are simplified and the multiplex circuit becomes smaller and faster........ When the master and slave sections receive the same clock signal, ... the occurrence of a disturbing phase shift between the clock signals received by the various master and slave sections is prevented. at high clock frequencies .................................. An embodiment of the invention will be described in detail hereinafter with reference to the drawings therein A video memory field 10 applies parallel data to the data inputs 28 of the multiplex circuit 20 . After reception of a start signal 22 , these data appear serially, under the control of a clock signal 24 , on the data output 26 , thus forming the multiplexed signal. After the various data have appeared on the data output, a new cycle which is initiated by the next start signal, commences............................................................. A multiplex circuit in accordance with the invention is particularly suitable for use in an integrated circuit having a high processing speed, for example in said video memory. However, the applications of the invention are by no means restricted thereto the invention can be used in practically any field of electronics, for example for microprocessors, telecommunication and electronic signal and data processing.......................................................... Fig. 2 shows a multiplex circuit in accordance with the invention. For the sake of simplicity and clarity only five data inputs are shown in practice this circuit may include an arbitrary number of data inputs. The multiplex circuit includes a cascade connection of flip flop circuits 118, 120, 122 each having a master section 128 and a slave section 130 . The output of the slave section of the last flip flop circuit 122 is connected to the data output 112 and generates the multiplexed signal. Each master or slave section is connected to the clock input 116 . The data inputs 102, 104, 106, 108, 110 are connected to NOR gates 124 which are also connected to the start input 114 in order to receive the start signal. The outputs of the NOR gates are connected to the load inputs 132 of the master sections 128 . The load inputs 134 of the slave sections are each connected to the load input of the master section of the next flip flop circuit 122 does not include a load input. An input 126 of the first flip flop circuit 118 is connected, via an inverting circuit 138 , to the load input 132 of its master section 128 . The section which can be loaded are constructed so, that they are simultaneously loaded with a 0 when the clock signal and the signal on the relevant load input are both 1 . Loading with a 1 is not possible and it will be demonstrated that such loading is superfluous......................................... The operation of the multiplex circuit will be described with reference to Fig. 3. At the instant tØ the start signal STRT is low or 0 and the clock signal CLK is high or 1 . The master section 128 of the first flip flop circuit 118 is loaded with A1. The slave sections 130 of the first to the fourth flip flop circuits S1, S2, S3, S4 are loaded with B1, C1, D1 and E1, respectively the contents of the slave section of the last flip flop circuit S5 remain the same A0 . S5 supplies the output signal of the multiplex circuit. At t1, CLK changes from high to low, which means that the master sections transfer their data to the slave section of the same flip flop circuit. Between the instants t1 and t2 STRT must be switched from low to high in order to prevent renewed loading at t2. At t2 the master sections take over the data of the slave sections of the preceding flip flop circuit. The master section of the first flip flop circuit 118 takes over a 1 from the input 126. At t3 to t6 the data is shifted through th shift register in the same way. Between t6 and t7 STRT changes from high to low in order to load new data at t7. All sections of the flip flop circuits loaded are now 1 . This means that the loading means must merely be capable of loading a Ø , so that the flip flop circuit can be simplified. Loading takes place again at the instant t7 S5, however, remains the same so that the loading operation does not disturb the multiplex signal. Subsequently, the whole cycle is started again t8 then corresponds to t1. This multiplexer offers major advantages over a conventional type. First of all, the data on the data inputs need be present only during a small part of the cycle from t7 till t8 , so that the memory field has a substantial amount of time available for fetching the data for the next cycle. This property is important notably in the case of a high clock frequency. Moreover, this multiplex circuit is highly insusceptible to phase differences between the signals STRT and CLK. The only requirement to be imposed on these signals is that the signal STRT must become low after t6 and high again before t9 it must also be low for a sufficient period of time between t7 and t8 to enable the relevant flip flop circuits to be loaded. In many cases phase shifts between STRT and CLK will not influence the behaviour of the multiplex circuit. This is one of the reasons why the speed of this multiplex circuit depends hardly at all on the number of data inputs...... Fig. 4 shows an example of a flip flop circuit for use in a multiplex circuit in accordance with the invention. The flip flop circuit comprises a master section MD and a slave section SD . The section MD includes two inputs MI and MI , a load input MLD , and two outputs MU and MU . The section SD includes two inputs, a load input SLD and two outputs SU and SU . Both sections are connected to a first VK1 and a second VK2 supply terminal and the clock input CLK . The master section includes a first I1 and a second I2 inverting circuit which includes an output, and a first VI1 and a second VI2 supply input. The first and second supply inputs of both inverting circuits are connected to VK1 and VK2, respectively. The outputs of I1 and I2 are connected to MU and MU, respectively the input of I1 is connected to the output of I2 and In a first set circuit the channels of a first T1 and a second T2 insulated gate field effect transistor IGFET are connected in series between MU and VK2. The gate of the IGFET T2 is connected to CLK. In a second set circuit the channels of a third T3 and a fourth T4 IGFET are connected in series between MU and VK2. The channel of a fifth IGFET T5 is connected in parallel with the channel of the IGFET T3. The gate of the IGFET T3 is connected to MI, that of the IGFET T4 to CLCK and that of the IGFET T5 to MLD. The slave section SD includes a third and a fourth inverting circuit I3 and I4 , each of which is connected to VK1 by way of its first supply input. The output of I3 is connected to the input of I4 and IGFET T3 in the first flip flop circuit 118, Fig. 2 and IGFET T10 in the last flip flop circuit 122, Fig. 2 can be dispensed with.................................................................... The operation of the flip flop circuit is as follows when the clock signal is low, the IGFETs T2, T4, T7 and T8 are turned off. In that state the inputs MI, MI and MLD do not influence the state of the master section. The master section controls the inputs of the slave section so that the IGFET T6 or the IGFET T9 is turned on and the output of the associated inverting circuit I3 or I4 becomes low. The output of the other inverting circuit I4 or I3 is high. The input SLD again does not influence the state of the slave section. Summarizing, it can be said that the slave sections take over the state of the master sections when the clock signal is low.................................. When the clock signal is high, the IGFETs T2, T4, T7 and T8 are turned on. In that case the master section does not influence the state of the slave section. A high signal on SLD forces the slave section to assume the 0 state, which means that SU is low and SU is high. The inputs MI, MI and MLD determine the state of the master section. When MI is low and MI is high, the master section assumes the state 0 MU low, MU high . When MI is high and MI is low, the master section will assume the state 1 when MLD is low. However when MLD is high in those circumstances, the state will be arbitrary for a brief period of time because MU is low via the first and the second IGFET as well as MU An inverting circuit 138 in the first flip flop circuit 118 ensures that MLD and MI cannot be simultaneously high or low. When MLD is high, the master section assumes the state 0 when MLD is low, the master section assumes the state 1 ............................... In the other flip flop circuits 120, 122 , MLD is connected to SLD of the preceding flip flop circuit. When MLD is high, MI will become low after a brief period of time because the preceding slave section becomes 0 , so that the master section can also become 0 . Summarizing, it can be said that when the clock signal is high and MLD is low, the master section will take over the state of the preceding slave section, the master section of the first flip flop circuit then assuming the state 1 .................................................. When the clock signal and MLD are high, the master section and if applicable the preceding slave section assume the state 0 ..................................................................... These switching functions render the flip flop circuit suitable for use in a multiplex circuit in accordance with the invention................................................................