# DETERMINATION OF GLYCATED GLYCOSYLATED HEMOGLOBIN IN BLOOD

## Claims
Monoklonaler Antikörper mit Nagetierursprung, der eine bevorzugte Bindung an ein Epitop von HbA

## Description
The present invention relates to monoclonal antibodies generated against glycated glycosylated hemoglobin and to the use of such monoclonal antibodies for monitoring the extent of glycation glycosylation of hemoglobin. Glycated glycosylated hemoglobins have gained acceptance as a relevant index of long term blood glucose control in patients with diabetes mellitus. As used subsequently in this specification the term glycated hemoglobin refers to relatively stable condensation products of hemoglobin with glucose and possibly glucose phosphates , as compared with more labile hemoglobin glucose adducts, supposedly of the aldimine Schiff base type and generated by a non enzymatic reaction between glucose and amino groups of hemoglobin. The latter are believed to be converted into the stable formerly termed glycosylated type via an Amadori rearrangement cf. M. Roth Clin.Chem. Glycated hemoglobin A components were first recognized when hemoglobin A was subjected to electrophoresis and cation exchange chromatography. Owing to their more negative charge and consequently higher electrophoretic migration rates towards the anode than that of the major component hemoglobin A HbA It is now generally accepted that the level of HbA The ideal laboratory method for measuring HbA The direct measurement of glycated hemoglobin based on immunological methods has been suggested in the prior art. In this respect reference is made It is the object of the present invention to overcome the drawbacks of the methods known heretofore for laboratory measurements of the extent of glycation, of hemoglobin A. The invention is based on the surprising observation that it is possible by using appropriate immunization, screening and selection procedures to isolate cell lines hybridomas which produce monoclonal antibodies that will bind specifically to epitopes containing glycated amino groups of hemoglobin, such as that of the N terminal valine of the β chains of hemoglobin A, whereas substantially less or essentially no binding occurs to the corresponding non glycated site. In particular, the generation of antibodies recognizing the glycated N terminal valine residues of the HbA The present invention provides a monoclonal antibody characterized by being of rodent, preferably of murine, origin and, furthermore, by its binding in an essentially specific manner to an epitope of human hemoglobin, which epitope comprises the glycated amino group of the N terminal valine residue of the hemoglobin A β chain wherein the monoclonal antibody is raised against human HbA The invention also provides a monoclonal antibody of rodent, preferably of murine, origin exhibiting a preferential binding to HbA According to a further aspect of the present invention there is provided a method for preparing a monoclonal antibody for use as a diagnostic aid for the determination of glycated human hemoglobin. The process comprises the cultivation in a suitable growth medium of a hybridoma cell line capable of producing an antibody which binds in a preferential manner an epitope comprising the glycated amino group of the N terminal valine residue of the hemoglobin β chain. The process for preparing such an antibody may comprise the following steps Accordingly to still another aspect the present invention provides a hybridoma cell line capable of producing a monoclonal antibody showing a preferential binding to HbA Furthermore, there is provided a diagnostic method or kit for the determination of HbA Fig. 1 illustrates results from the primary screening of hybridoma supernatants from a total of ten microtiter plates, each with 96 wells for binding to purified HbA Fig. 2 shows the binding of antibodies obtained from two hybridoma cell lines HEM 13F1 and HEM 13F2 to the immobilized antigens HbA Fig. 3 shows the binding of antibody from HEM 13F1 broken line to immobilized fractions of a hemolysate obtained from diabetics. Fractionation of hemoglobin was conducted by cation exchange HPLC solid line . Fig. 4. illustrates studies on inhibition of the binding of antibody HEM 13F1 to HbA The selection of monoclonal antibodies having a sufficiently preferential specificity for the purpose of this invention is facilitated by the accessability both of the selected glycated human hemoglobin essentially freed of its non glycated counterpart, as well as of the latter containing essentially no glycated contaminants. Human HbA Antibodies against HbA Microtiter plates were coated by adsorption with HbA For these studies, the ELISA was performed as described above, except that increasing volumes, starting from e.g. 0.5 µl, of the supernatants from selected hybridoma cells were diluted with PBS BSA to a total volume of 100 µl. Results from the primary screening of ten plates are illustrated in Fig. 1. A substantial number 320 of the supernatants, such as that from hybridoma HEM 13F9, reacted with essentially non glycated HbA As appears from Fig. 2 of the drawings, dilution experiments with supernatants obtained from hybridoma HEM 13F1 and HEM 13F2 for their binding to purified preparations of HbA The other antibody, HEM 13F2, also an IgG₁ antibody, does not exhibit the same degree of specificity for HbA Both of the two hybridomas were stabilized in the usual way by recloning under limiting dilution conditions in order to avoid overgrowth of cultures of variant cells no longer producing antibody, thereby facilitating the further production of the respective antibody of each hybridoma. The term reclone as used hereinafter refers to a hybridoma cell line derived from a parent hybridoma cell line by cloning under such conditions. The specific binding of the antibody HEM 13F1 to HbA The inhibition studies illustrated in Fig. 4 of the drawings provide convincing evidence that the epitope recognized by the antibody HEM 13F1 comprises the glycated N terminal sequence of the β chain of HbA Analyses for glycated hemoglobin can be carried out on a hemoglobin source, e.g. hemolysed erythrocytes. The determination can be performed by immunoassay such as by competitive or immunometric assay types. Examples of the latter type are radioimmunometric assays IRMA and enzyme linked immunosorbent assays ELISA . In a competitive assay the antigen i.e. the glycated hemoglobin is labelled with a detectable label. The sample containing the antigen is incubated with the glycated hemoglobin specific antibody and the labelled antigen, and after formation of immune complexes, separation and detection, the level of glycated hemoglobin in the sample is determined. In one preferred mode of performing the immunometric assay the antigen including that of the sample to be analyzed is insolubilized on a solid phase, e.g. on the surface of microtiter plate wells. The antibody, e.g. antibody HEM13F1 or an antigen binding fragment of the antibody is detectably labelled. Incubation of sample with labelled antibody leads to an insolubilized antigen antibody complex where, after separation of unbound antibody the amount of label is proportional to the amount of antigen. In another immunometric sandwich assay, one antigen binding antibody is detectably labelled. Another antibody binding the same antigen is immobilized on a solid phase. Incubation of sample with labelled and immobilized antibody leads to a sandwich, where, after separation of unbound antibody the amount of label is proportional to the amount of antigen. Immunometric assays can be carried out in forward, reverse or simultaneous modes, depending on the order of addition of the insolubilized and or labelled antibodies. Other steps such as washing, stirring, shaking, filtering, or pre assay extraction of antigen and the like may, of course, be included in the assays, as may be desired or necessary for a particular situation. The specific concentrations, the temperature and time of incubation, as well as other assay conditions, can be varied depending on such factors as the concentration of the antigen in the sample, the nature of the sample, and the like. Those skilled in the art will be able to determine operative and optimal assay conditions for each determination while employing routine experimentation. For example, the immuno assay may be run at 4 to 37 C, and each incubation step may be as long as 72 hours. There are many carriers to which the antigen or antibody can be bound, and which can be used in the present invention. Well known carriers include glass, polystyrene, polypropylene, polyethylene, dextran, nylon, amyloses, natural and modified celluloses, polyacrylamides, agaroses, and magnetite. The nature of the carrier can be either soluble to some extent or insoluble for purposes of the invention. Those skilled in the art will know many other suitable carriers for binding, or will be able to ascertain such, using routine experimentation. Depending on the particular embodiment of the assay of the invention, the antibody or an antigen binding fragment thereof may be coupled with a detectable label such as an enzyme, radioactive isotope, fluorescent compound or metal, chemiluminescent compound, or bioluminescent compound. Furthermore, the binding of these labels to the desired molecule can be done using standard techniques common to those of ordinary skill in the art. One of the ways in which the antibodies can be detectably labelled is by linking it to an enzyme. This enzyme, in turn, when later exposed to its substrate will react with the substrate in such a manner as to produce a chemical moiety which can be detected by, for example, spectrophotometric or fluorometric means ELISA system . Examples of enzymes that can be used as detectable labels are horseradish peroxidase, malate dehydrogenase, staphylococcal nuclease, delta 5 steroid isomerase, yeast alcohol dehydrogenase, alpha glycerophosphate dehydrogenase, triose phosphate isomerase, alkaline phosphatase, asparaginase, glucose oxidase, beta galactosidase, ribonuclease, urease, catalase, glucose 6 phosphate dehydrogenase, glucoamylase, and acetylcholine esterase. For increased sensitivity in the ELISA system, the procedures described can be modified using biotinylated antibody reacting with avidin peroxidase conjugates. The amount of antigen can also be determined by labelling the antibody with a radioactive isotope. The presence of the radioactive isotope would then be determined by such means as the use of a gamma counter or a scintillation counter. Isotopes which are particularly useful are ³H, ¹²⁵I, ¹²³I, ³²P, ³⁵S, ¹⁴C, ⁵¹Cr, ³⁶Cl, ⁵⁷Co, ⁵⁸Co, ⁵⁹Fe, ⁷⁵Se, ¹¹¹In, Determination of the antigen is also possible by labelling the antibody with a fluorescent compound. When the fluorescently labelled molecule is exposed to light of the proper wavelength, its presence can then be detected due to fluorescence of the dye. Among the most important fluorescent labelling compounds are fluorescein isothiocyanate, rhodamine, phycoerythrin, phycocyanin, allophycocyanin, o phthaldehyde, and fluorescamine. Fluorescence emitting metal atoms such as Eu europium , and other lanthanides, can also be used. These can be attached to the desired molecule by means of metal chelating groups, such as DTPA or EDTA. Another way in which the antibody can be detectably labelled is by coupling it to a chemiluminescent compound. The presence of the chemiluminescent tagged immunoglobulin is then determined by detecting the presence of luminescence that arises during the course of a chemical reaction. Examples of particularly useful chemiluminescent labelling compounds are luminol, isoluminol, aromatic acridinium ester, imidazole, acridinium salt, and oxalate ester. Likewise, a bioluminescent compound may also be used as a label. Bioluminescence is a special type of chemiluminescence which is found in biological systems and in which a catalytic protein increases the efficiency of the chemiluminescent reaction. The presence of a bioluminescent molecule would be determined by detecting the presence of luminescence. Important bioluminescent compounds for purposes of labelling are luciferin, luciferase, and aequorin. The materials for use in the assay of the invention are ideally suited for the preparation of a kit. Such a kit may comprise a carrier means being compartmentalized to receive in close confinement therein two or more container means such as vials, tubes, and the like, each of said container means comprising one of the separate elements to be used in any desired method. For example, a first of the said container means useful in immunometric assays may comprise soluble, detectably labelled monoclonal antibody HEM 13F1 in lyophilized form or in solution. In addition the carrier means may also contain at least a second container containing hemoglobin with a predetermined concentration of HbA The invention will now be further illustrated by way of examples which, however, should not be construed as imposing any undue limitations on the scope thereof. The antigen HbA Essentially non glycated hemoglobin A A 2.5 x 46 cm column of DEAE Sepharose CL 6B Pharmacia was equilibrated with eluent I 5 mM l K₂B₄O₇ pH 9.15 at 4 C. A pool of erythrocytes from diabetic subjects was washed three times in isotonic saline, hemolyzed with three volumes of water and freed of membranes by centrifugation. The hemolysate 23 ml was diluted with 230 ml eluent I and 230 ml water, the pH adjusted to 9.2 with 1 N KOH, and applied to the column at a flow rate of 80 ml h. The diluted hemolysate was followed by 115 ml eluent I. The hemoglobin was eluted with a gradient from 5 eluent I 500 ml to 50 mM l K₂B₄O₇ eluent II pH 9.15 500 ml followed by 1000 ml of eluent II. Three hemoglobin peaks were detected at 540 nm. The second peak, which was the biggest, eluted at about 75 of maximum conductivity and was identified as HbA Essentially non glycated HbA RBF Dn strain mice obtained from the Jackson Laboratory, Bar Harbor, Maine, USA containing the RB 8.12 5Bnr Robertsonian translocation chromosome were immunized three times at two week intervals with purified HbA Spleen cells from two RBF Dn mice 8.5 x 10⁷ cells were fused with 1.5 x 10⁷ cells of the FOX NY myeloma line deficient in the selectable enzyme marker loci adenosine phosphoribosyl transferase APRT and hypoxanthine phosphoribosyl transferase HPRT . Thus, the exposure of cell fusion mixtures to a medium requiring APRT activity APRT selection eliminates both unfused APRT myelomas and APRT hybridomas R.T. Taggart and I.M. Samloff Science Cultures were incubated for 12 days at 37 C in air containing 5 CO₂ before being subjected to primary screening. Hybridomas HEM 13F1 and HEM 13F2 cf. Fig. 1 of the drawings were further cloned by limiting dilution in RPMI 1640 medium with 15 v v fetal calf serum a medium containing adenine, aminopterin and thymidine AAT as well as in the same medium without these supplements. In both cases the antibodies produced by all the resulting clones showed a preferential binding to HbA A reclone of HEM 13F1, HEM 13F1A4, was selected for the production of antibody for further studies. The antibody produced was characterized by means of a microimmunodiffusion technique against a panel of class and subclass specific antisera. Prior to this test, the antibody in hybridoma supernatants was purified on Protein A Sepharose Pharmacia, Sweden . In order to ensure binding of the antibody, pH of the supernatants was adjusted to 8.5. Elution was performed with citrate phosphate buffer, pH 4.5, and the fractions were neutralized with 0.5 M phosphate buffer, pH 7.0, and concentrated by ultrafiltration to approximately 5 mg of protein per ml. Antibody HEM 13F1 was defined as murine IgG₁. A hemolysate prepared as described in Example A was dialysed at 4 C against a 25 mM l malonate buffer with pH 6.0 eluent A . Approximately one mg of hemoglobin in a volume of 30 µl was fractionated on a Mono S cation exchange column 0.5 x 5 cm Pharmacia by means of HPLC equipment from Spectra Physics Model 8100 . Elution was conducted with a gradient made with eluent A and eluent B, the latter consisting of eluent A supplemented with 300 mM l LiCl. The flow rate was 2 ml per minute and the temperature 37 C. The eluate was monitored at 280 nm and fractions of 2 ml were collected. The chromatogram solid line is shown in Fig. 3 of the drawings together with the results broken line of ELISA conducted on the collected fractions. Inhibition analyses were performed with microtiter plates coated with HbA Hemolysates from diabetic and non diabetic individuals were prepared by lysis of 0.5 ml of erythrocytes in 3.5 ml of distilled water. Two µl of each hemolysate was further diluted in 1 ml of PBS. The diluted material 100 µl was added to individual wells of microtiter plates Immunoplate I, NUNC, Roskilde, Denmark and incubated overnight at 4 C to allow adsorption of hemoglobin to the surface. The plates were emptied, blocked with BSA 2 w v in PBS for 1 hour at room temperature and subsequently washed three times with PBS. Wells with sample material were then incubated for 1 hour with antibody HEM 13F1 purified IgG₁, 5 µg ml in 100 µl PBS , washed three times with PBS, and incubated for 1 hour with 100 µl of anti mouse immunoglobulin conjugated with horse radish peroxidase Dakopatts, Denmark, dil. 1 1000 in PBS . After a further 3 hours of incubation they were washed in sodium citrate buffer, pH 5.0, and incubated for 3 minutes with orthophenylenediamine OPD substrate solution o phenylenediamine, 2HCl 8 mg citrate phosphate buffer 15 ml H₂O₂ 30 v v 5µl . The reaction was stopped by addition of 150 µl of 1 M H₂SO₄ and the absorbance read at 492 nm. Parallel samples were taken of the hemolysates and analysed by isoelectric focusing IEF Mortensen, H.B. and Christoffersen, C. Biochim.Biophys.Acta The results from the determination of HbA Blood was drawn from 3 non diabetic fasting subjects with ethylenediamine tetraacetate EDTA, 1.5 mg per ml blood . Blood cells were washed by centrifugation three times with 0.9 NaCl solution. Three 200 µl portions of packed blood cells were taken from each sample. Two of the samples were incubated with 10 ml of 100 mM glucose in PBS at 20 C and 37 C, respectively, while the third sample served as a control stored at 4 C . Samples were incubated for 16 h, after which they were haemolysed by addition of 1.4 ml H₂O containing 200 µl of CCl₄ followed by centrifugation. The supernatants diluted 1 5000 in PBS were analyzed by ELISA using the antibody HEM 13F1 and, in parallel, by isoelectric focusing IEF essentially as described in Example 5 above. The results from ELISA expressed as A₄₉₂ are compared with the results from the IEF expressed as pre HbA The increase in Pre HbA The method used for biotinylation of HEM 13F1 was essentially that described by C. Kendall Hemolysates from diabetic and non diabetic individuals were prepared by lysis of 0.5 ml of erythrocytes in 3.5 ml of water and further dilution to approximately 1 1000 in 0.1 M citrate phosphate buffer of pH 4.0. Diluted samples 100 µl of each were added to individual wells of microtiter plates Immunoplate I and incubated, either overnight or on a mechanical shaker for 30 minutes at room temperature to allow adsorption of hemoglobin to the surface. The plates were emptied, blocked with blocking agent 0.01 M PBS 0.145 M NaCl 0.5 w v BSA, pH 7.2 for 30 minutes at room temperature and subsequently washed three times with washing buffer 0.01 M PBS 0.145 M NaCl 0.05 Tween 20 . Wells with sample material were then incubated for 1 hour with 100 µl of a solution of biotin labelled antibody HEM 13F1, approximately 1 µg per ml of buffer 0.01 M PBS 0.01 M NaCl 0.5 w v BSA, pH 7.2 followed by washing with buffer. The wells were then incubated with 100 µl of a solution of avidin conjugated with horse radish peroxidase supplied by VECTOR Laboratories, Inc., CA, USA , diluted 1 10.000 in 0.01 M PBS with 0.5M NaCl 0.5 w v BSA, pH 7.2. The wells were washed three times with washing buffer and then incubated for 5 10 minutes with OPD substrate solution Dakopatts, Denmark, Code No. 52000 . The reaction was stopped by addition of 100 µl of 1 M H₂SO₄ and the absorbance read at 492 nm. Parallel samples of the hemolysates were analyzed in duplicate by IEF. Absorbance values were converted to percentages of HbA The results obtained from the determination of HbA The features disclosed in the foregoing description, in the following claims and or in the accompanying drawings may, both separately and in any combination thereof, be material for realising the invention in diverse forms thereof.