# Novel glycopeptide derivatives

## Claims
Claims 1. A compound of formula I EMI22.1 wherein R and R, are independently hydrogen or methyl R2 and R3, independently, are hydrogen, or a group of formula R6R7CH , where R6 and R7 are independently R5, R5 C1 C5 alkyl or R5 C2 C5 alkenyl wherein Rs is hydrogen, C, C,0 alkyl, C2 C10 alkenyl,C1 C4 alkoxy, C2 C10 cyclalkyl, C5 C12 cycloalkenyl, phenyl, napththyl, indenyl, tetralinyl, decalinyl, adamantyl, a monocyclic heterocyclic ring system comprising 3 to 8 atoms in the ring or a bicyclic heterocyclic ring system comprising 6 to 11 atoms, provided that at least one atom of the ring system is carbon and at least one atom of the ring system is a heteroatom selected from O,N and S, and wherein Rs may be substituted with one or more hydroxy, nitro, C1 C10 alkoxy, C, C.O alkyl, phenyl, C. C alkylthio, nitrile, halo, G2 C4 acylamino, amino, C, Ct dialkylamino groups andR4 is hydrogen orR, and R2 and or R3 and R4 together form a group of the formulaEMI23.1 wherein R4 and R7 are R5, R5 C1 C5 alkyl or R C2 Ca alkenyl and n is 1 or 2 provided that 1 at least one of R2 and R2 must be other than hydrogen 2 when n is 2, R must be hydrogen 3 when R is methyl and R3 is hydrogen, R2 cannot be methyl and 4 when. R and R, are both methyl, then R2 is hydrogen or methyl and n is 1 or a pharmaceuticaily acceptable salt thereof. 2. A compound as claimed in claim 1, wherein R is hydrogen or methyl R, is hydrogen R2 and R3, independently, are hydrogen, R5 C1 C5 alkyl or R5 C2 C6 alkenyl and R4 is hydrogen orR, and R2 or R3 and Ra together form an R5 C1 C5 alkylidenyl or Rs C2 Cs alkenylidenyl group Ra is C, C,O alkyl, C2 C,0 alkenyl, C3 C10 cycloalkyl,C5 C12 cycloalkenyl, phenyl, napththyl, indenyl, tetralinyl, decalinyl, adamantyl, a monocyclic heterocyclic ring system comprising 3 to 8 atoms in the ring or a bicyclic heterocyclic ring system comprising 6 to 11 atoms, provided that at least one atom of the ring system is carbon and at least one atom of the ring system is a heteroatom selected from O,N and S, and wherein R, may be substituted with one or more hydroxy, 0, Ca alkoxy, C1 C5 alkylthio, halo or amino groups and n 1 or 2 provided that 1 at least one of R2 and R, must be other than hydrogen and 2 when n is 2, R must be hydrogen or pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof. 3. A compound as claimed in claim 1 having the structure 2 EMI24.1 wherein R2a is hydrogen or methyl R3a is R5 C, C alkyl or Rs C2 C6 alkenyl and R4a is hydrogen or R3a and R4a together form an R6 C1 C5 alkylidenyl or Rs C2 C5 alkenylidenyl group and salts thereof. 4. A compound as claimed in claim 1 or 2, wherein R2 is a group of formula RsR7cH and R3 is hydrogen. 5. A compound as claimed in claim 1 which is Nvan benzyl vancomycin Nvan p butyloxybenzyl vancomycin Nvan p butyloxybenzyl vancomycin Nvan n decyl vancomyvin Nvan p octylbenzyl vancomycin or Nvan p octyloxybenzyl vancomycin. 6. A pharmaceutical fdrmulation comprising as an active ingredient a compound as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 5, associated with a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier therefor. 7. A compound as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 5 for use as an antibacterial. 8. A process for preparing a compound as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 5, which comprises reacting a compound of formula EMI25.1 wherein R1a, R1b and R2b independently represent hydrogen or methyl, and n is 1 or 2, with a ketone or aldehyde of formula EMI25.2 so as to form an alkylidene or alkenylidene derivative, optionally followed by reduction so as to form an alkyl or alkenyl derivative. CLAIMS FOR CONTRACTiNG STATE AT 1. A process for preparing a compound of formula I EMI26.1 wherein R and R, are independently hydrogen or methyl R2 and R3, independently, are hydrogen, or a group of formula R6R7CH where R6 and R7 are indepen dently R5, R5 C1 C5 alkyl or R5 C2 C5 alkenyl wherein Rs is hydrogen, C1 C10 alkyl, C2 C,0 alkenyl, C1 C4 alkoxy, C3 C10 cycloalkyl, C5 C12 cycloalkenyl, phenyl, napththyl, indenyl, tetralinyl, decalinyl, ad amantyl, a monocyclic heterocyclic ring system comprising 3 to 8 atoms in the ring or a bicyclic heterocyclic ring system comprising 6 to 11 atoms, provided that at least one atom of the ring system is carbon and at least one atom of the ring system is a heteroatom selected from O,N and S, and wherein Rs may be substituted with one or more hydroxy, nitro, C, C10 alkoxy, C, C,0 alkyl, phenyl, C1 C5 alkylthio, nitrile, halo, C24 acylamino, amino, C1 C4 dialkylamino groups and Ra is hydrogen or R, and R2 and or R3 and R4 together form a group of the formulaEMI26.2 wherein Ra and R7 are Rs, R5 C1 C5 alkyl or R5 C2 Ca alkenyl and n is 1 or 2 provided that 1 at least one of R3 and Ra must be other than hydrogen 2 when n is 2, R must be hydrogen 3 when R is methyl and R3 is hydrogen,R2 cannot be methyl and 4 when R and R1 are both methyl, then R2 is hydrogen or methyl and n is 1 or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof which comprises reacting a compound of formulaEMI27.1 wherein Rb, R ib and R2b independently represent hydrogen or methyl, and n is 1 or 2, with a ketone or aldehyde of formula EMI27.2 so as to form an alkylidene or alkenylidene derivative, optionally followed by reduction so as to form an alkyl or alkenyl derivative. 2. A process according to claim 1, wherein R is hydrogen or methyl R, is hydrogen R2 and R3, independently, are hydrogen, R5 C1 C5 alkyl or R5 C2 C5 alkenyl and Ra is hydrogen or R, and R2 or R3 and R4 together form an Rs C, C6 alkylidenyl or R5 C2 C5 alkenylidenyl group Rs is C, C,0 alklyl, C2 C,0 alkenyl, C3 C,O cycloalkyl, C5 C12 cycloalkenyl, phenyl, napththyl, indenyl, tetralinyl, decalinyl, adamantyl, a monocyclic heterocyclic ring system comprising 3 to 8 atoms in the ring or a bicyclic heterocyclic ring system comprising 6 to 11 atoms, provided that at least one atom of the ring system is carbon and at least one atom of the ring system is a heteroatom selected from O,N and S, and wherein Rs may be substituted with one or more hydroxy, C, C6 alkoxy, C1 C6 alkylthio, halo or amino groups and n 1 or 2 provided that 1 at least one of R2 and R3 must be other than hydrogen and 2 when n is 2, R must be hydrogen. 3. A process as claimed in claim 1 for preparing a compound having the structure 2 EMI28.1 wherein R2a is hydrogen or methyl R3a is Rs C, Cs alkyl or R5 C2 C5 alkenyl andR4a is hydrogen orR3a and R4a together form an Rs C, C6 alkylidenyl or Rs C2 C6 alkenylidenyl group and salts thereof. 4. A process as claimed in claim 1 or 2, wherein R2 is a group of formula R6R7CH and R3 is hydrogen. 5. A process as claimed in claim 1 for preparingNvan benzyl vancomycin Nvan p butylbenzyl van commycin Nvan p butoxybenzyl vancomycin Nvan n decyl vancomycin Nvan p octylbenzyl vancomycin or Nvan p octyloxybenzyl vancomycin.

## Description
NOVEL GLYCOPEPTIDE DERIVATIVES This invention relates to new glycopeptide de rip natives having useful antibacterial activity, and to methods for preparing these compounds New, improved antibiotics are continually in demand, particularly for the treatment of human diseases. Increased potency, expanded spectrum of bacterial inhibition, increased in vivo efficacy, and improved pharmaceutical properties such as greater oral absorption, higher blood or tissue con centrations, longer in vivo half life, and more ad vantageous rate or route of excretion and rate or pattern of metabolism are some of the goals for improved antibiotics. In the search for new antibiotics, structural modification of known antibiotics is attempted whenever possible. Many antibiotics, including the glycopeptides, however, have such complex structures that even small changes are difficult to make.Furthermore, it is difficult to predict the effect these changes will make in the desired activity. Processes for modifying known antibiotics and the new active derivatives made by such processes con tinue, therefore, to be of great importance. The compounds of the invention are new mem bers of the glycopeptide group of antibiotics. The compounds can be prepared from the known glycopeptides vancomycin see, for example, U.S. Patent 3,067,099 , antibiotic A51 568 factor A see U.S. Patent 4,495,179 and A51568 factor B see U.S. Patent 4,558,008 antibiotic M43A see U.S. Patent No. 4,548,925 , and antibiotic M43D see U.S. Patent No. 4,547,488 . According to the present invention there are provided compounds of formula I EMI1.1 wherein R and R1 are independently hydrogen or methyl R2 and R3, independently, are hydrogen, or a group of formula R6RCH , where R6 and R, are independently Rg, R5 01 00 alkyl or Rs C2 Cs alkenyl wherein R5 is hydrogen, C1 C10 alkyl, C2 C10 alkenyl,C1 C4 alkoxy, C3 C10 cycloalkyl, C5 C12 cycloalkenyl, phenyl, napththyl, indenyl, tetralinyl, decalinyl, adamantyl, a monocyclic heterocyclic ring system comprising 3 to 8 atoms in the ring or a bicyclic heterocyclic ring system comprising 6 to 11 atoms, provided that at least one atom of the ring system is carbon and at least one atom of the ring system is a heteroatom selected from 0, N and S, and wherein R5 may be substituted with one or more hydroxy, nitro, C1 C10 alkoxy, C, C,O alkyl, phenyl, C, C6 alkylthio, nitrole, halo, C2 C4 acylamino, amino no, C1 C4 dialkylamino groups andR4 is hydrogen orR, and R2 and or R3 and R. together form a group of the formulaEMI2.1 wherein R6 and R7 are R5 R3 C1 C5 alkyl or R3 C2 Cs alkenyl , and n is 1 or 2 provided that 1 at least one of R2 and R3 must be other than hydrogen 2 when n is 2, R must be hydrogen 3 when R is methyl and R3 is hydrogen, R2 cannot be methyl and 4 when R and R, are both methyl, then R2 is hydrogen or methyl and n is 1 and salts of these compounds. Thus, in one aspect of the invention there are provided compounds of formula 1 EMI3.1 wherein R is hydrogen or methyl R, is hydrogen R2 and R3, independently, are hydrogen, R6 C1 C5 alkyl or R5 C2 C6 alkenyl andR4 is hydrogen orR, and R2 or R3 and Ra together form an R5 C1 C5 alkylidenyl or Rs C2 C6 alkenylidenyi group Rs is C , C,0 alkyl, C2 C,0 alkenyl, C3 C10 cycloalkyl,C3 C12 cycloalkenyl, phenyl, napththyl, indenyl, tetralinyl, decalinyl, adamantyl, a monocyclic heterocyclic ring system comprising 3 to 8 atoms in the ring or a bicyclic heterocyclic ring system comprising 6 to 1f atoms, provided that at least one atom of the ring system is carbon and at least one atom of the ring system is a heteroatom se lected from 0, N and S, and wherein Ra may be substituted with one or more hydroxy, C1 C5 alkoxy,C1 C5 alkylthio, halo or amino groups and n 1 or 2 provided that 1 at least one of R2 and Ra must be other than hydrogen and 2 when n is 2, R must be hydrogen and the salts of these compounds. Compounds in which R2 is a group of formulaR6R7CH and Ra is hydrogen are preferred. This invention also relates to novel glycopep tide derivatives of formula 2 EMI4.1 wherein R2a is hydrogen or methyl R3a is R5 C1 C5 alkyl or R5 C2 C5 alkenyl R4a is hydrogen or R3a and R4a toghether form an R5 C1 C5 alkylidenyl or Rs C2 C6 alkenylidenyl group and salts of these compounds. The compounds of the invention can be prepared by reacting vancomycin, antibiotic A51568 factor A, A51568 factor B, M43A or M43D, see the following structural formula EMI5.1 Compound Rb R1b R2b nVancomycin CH3 H H 1M43A CH3 CH3 CH3 1M43D CH3 CH3 H 1A51568A H H H 1A51568B H H H 2 with a ketone or aldehyde of formula EMI5.2 so as to form alkylidene or alkenylidene derivatives of the invention, optionally followed by reduction so as to form alkyl or alkenyl derivatives. The reaction with the R6R7CO compound is preferably carried out at temperatures between 25 and 100 C, preferably from 25 to 70 C, utilising a polar aprotic solvent such as dimethylformarnide. The reduction of the Schiff s base thus formed can be effected using a chemical reducing agent such as a metal borohydride, for example sodium cyanoborohydride. Once again an aprotic solvent such as dimethylformamide is preferred and the reduction can be effected using temperatures in the range from 25 to 100 C, preferably about 70 C. It will be appreciated that the sugar groups in the above formulae have the same configuration as do those in vancomycin, i.e., a O vancosaminyl 8 O glucosyl. Each Ra and R7 group may have from 1 to 15 carbon atoms, and preferably the sum of the carbon atoms in Ra and R7 is no greater than 15.Those compounds wherein either R, and R2 or Ra and Ra together form an Rs C, C6 alkyiidenyl or Rs C2 C6 alkenylidenyl group are known as Schiff bases. The terms C, Cs alkyl , C, C6 alkyl and C, C,0 alkyl refer to a saturated, straight or branchedchain alkyl group containing the specified number of carbon atoms. The terms C2 Cs alkenyl , C2C6 alkenyl and C, C,, alkenyl refer to an unsaturated straight or branched chain alkenyl group containing the specified number of carbon atoms.Those compounds wherein Ra or Ra is Ra C1 C6 alkyl or Rs C2 C6 alkenyl , referred to herein as reduced Schiff bases , are prepared by reduction of the corresponding compounds wherein either R, and Ra or Ra and Ra represent an Rs C, C6 al kylidenyl or Rs C2 C6 alkenylidenyi group. Methoxy, ethoxy and tert butoxy are typical C1 Ca alkoxy groups. Methylthio, n propylthio and isopentylthio are typical C, C alkylthio groups.Halo substituents are selected from the group consisting of chloro, bromo, fluoro and iodo.Cyclopropyl, cycloheptyl and cyclohexadienyl are examples of C2 C10 cycloalkyl and C5 C12 cycloal kenyl groups. The formula 1 compounds can be prepared from the antibiotics vancomycin, A51 568A andA51568B. The formula 2 compounds can be prepared from the antibiotics M43A and M43D. The compounds of the invention are shown as zwitterions. Those in the art will recognize, however, that each as a carboxyl group, one or two amino groups and three phenolic groups which can react to form various salts. All such forms of the compounds are part of this invention. The salts are useful, for example, for separating and purifying the antibiotics. In addition, the salts have an improved solubility in water. The salts are prepared using standard procedures for salt preparation. For example, the zwitterion can be neutralized with an appropriate acid to form an acid addition salt. The acid addition salts are particularly useful.Representative suitable salts include those salts formed by standard reactions with both organic and inorganic acids such as, for example, sulfuric, hydrochloric, phosphoric, acetic, succinic, citric, lactic, maleic, fumaric, cholic, pamoic, mucic, D glutamic, d camphoric, glutaric, glycolic, phthalic, tartaric, formic, lauric, stearic, salicyclic, methanesulfonic, benzenesulfonic, sorbic, picric, benzoic, cinnamic and like acids. Pharmaceutically acceptable acid addition salts are an especially preferred group of salts of this invention. This invention further relates to processes for preparing the compounds of the invention from the glycopeptide antibiotics vancomycin, A51568A, A51568B, M43A and M43D. For convenience in discussing the processes of this invention, the following subgroups are designated Compounds Definition 1a 1 compounds wherein R1 and R2 or R3 and R4 together form an R5 Cl C6 alkylidenyl or R5 C2 C6 alkenylidenyl group Ib 1 compounds wherein R2 or R3 is R5 C1 C6 alkyl or R5 C2 C6 alkenyl 2a 2 compounds wherein R3a and R4a together form an R5 C1 C6 alkylidenyl or R5 C2 C6 alkenyli denyl group 2b 2 compounds wherein R3a is R5 Cl C6 alkyl or R5 C2 C6 alkenyl In one aspect, this invention provides a process for preparing a formula 1a compound which comprises reacting vancomycin, A51568A orA51568B with the correspondingEMI7.1 aldehyde or ketone wherein Ra and R7 are as defined, suDra, preferably, in a polar aprotic solvent until la compound is formed. A preferred temperature range for this process is from about 25 to about 70 C, and a preferred time is from about 3 to about 18 hours. In a second aspect this invention provides a process for preparing a formula 1 b compound which comprises reacting the corresponding formula 1a compound with a reducing agent to reduce the R5R7C N N double bond s in the 1 a compound.A preferred reducing agent for this process is a borohydride such as, for example, sodium cyanoborohydride. In another aspect this invention provides a process for preparing a formula 2a compound which comprises reacting. M43A or M43D with the correspondingEMI7.2 aldehyde or ketone in a polar aprotic solvent until the La compound is formed. A preferred temperature range for this process is from about 250 to about 70 C., and a preferred time is from about 2 to about 18 hours. In yet another aspect, this invention provides a process for preparing a formula 2b compound which comprises reacting the corresponding formula La compound with a reducing agent to reduce the RaR7C N double bond in the formula 2a compound. A preferred reducing agent for this process is a borohydride such as, for example, sodium cyanoborohydride. When preparing those formula 1 b and 2b compounds wherein the R2, R3, or R3a group contains a C C group, the reducing agent used shouid be one which selectively reduces the RaR7C N group only. Sodium borohydride is an example of such a selective reducing agent. The compounds of this invention are useful antibacterial agents. The formula 1 b and 2b compounds are preferred for this purpose. The formula 1 b compounds wherein R2 is hydrogen and R3 is an R5 C1 C5 alkyl or R C2 C6 alkenyl group are especially useful. Within this group, those compounds wherein the R3 moiety contains from eight to twelve carbon atoms are particularly beneficial. The formula ib compounds wherein R is methyl, R2 is hydrogen and R3 is an R5 C1 C5 alkyl orRs C2 C6 alkenyl group are more readily and inexpensively prepared since the starting material, vancomycin, is a commercial product. Another useful group of formula 1b compounds are those wherein R3 is hydrogen and R2 is an R5 C, C6 alkyl or Rs C2 C6 alkenyl group. Preferred compounds within this group are those wherein theR2 moiety contains from five to fourteen carbon atoms. Economically preferably compounds within this group are those wherein R is methyl the compounds prepared from vancomycin . Yet another group of formula ib compounds are those wherein R2 and Ra are both R5 C1 C5 alkyl or Rs C2 C6 alkenyl groups. Again, the most preferred compounds of this subgroup are those wherein R is methyl. Illustrative compounds of this invention are listed in Tables i lV. Table I Illustrative Formula lb Compounds aCompound No. R R2 R3 1 Me H n dodecyl 2 Me H n decyl 3 Me n decyl H 4 Me n decyl n decyl 5 Me H n nonyl 6 Me n nonyl n nonyl 7 Me H n octyl 8 Me n octyl H 9 Me n octyl n octyl 10 Me H n heptyl 11 Me n heptyl H 12 Me n heptyl n heptyl 13 Me H n hexyl 14 Me n hexyl H 15 Me H n pentyl 16 Me n pentyl H 17 Me .H n butyl 18 Me n butyl H 19 Me n butyl n butyl 20 Me H n propyl 21 Me n propyl H 22 Me n propyl n propyl 23 Me Et H 24 Me Et Et 25 H n decyl H 26 H H n decyl 27 H isooctyl H 28 Me Me Me 29 Me isopropyl isopropyl 30 Me H isopropyl 31 Me H 5 hydroxy n pentyl 32 Me 5 hydroxy n pentyl H 33 Me If 5 hydroxy n pentyl 34 Me H 6 bromo n hexyl 35 Me 6 bromo n hexyl H 36 Me H 3 ethoxy n propyl 37 Me 3 ethoxy n propyl H 38 Me 3 ethoxy n propyl 3 ethoxy n propyl 39 Me H benzyl 40 Me benzyl H Table I cont d. Compound No. R R2 Rs 41 Me benzyl benzyl 42 H H benzyl 43 Me H 3 phenyl n prop 2 enyl 44 Me 3 phenyl n H prop 2 enyl .45 Me H 3 phenyl n propyl 46 Me H pyrid 3 yl methyl 47 Me pyrid 2 yl methyl .H 48 Me H 2 amino thiazol 4 yl ethyl 49 H H phenethyl 50 Me H indol 3 yl methyl 51 Me H adamant l yl methyl 52 Me H n undecyl 53 Me H 3 methylthio n propyl 54 Me 3 methylthio H n propyl aIn these compounds, n 1 and R4 HTable II Illustrative Formula la Compounds wherein R1 R2 . Alkylidenyl orCompound No. R R, R2 Group 55 Me n decylidenyl 56 Me n nonylidenyl 57 Me n octylidenyl 58 Me n heptylidenyl 59 Me n hexylidenyl 60 Me n pentylidenyl 61 Me n butylidenyl 62 Me n propylidenyl 63 Me ethylidenyl Table II cont d. Compound No. R Rt R2 Group 64 H n decylidenyl 65 Me isopropylidenyl 66 Me 5 hydroxy n pentylidenyl 67 Me 6 bromo n hexylidenyl 68 Me 3 ethoxy n propylidenyl 69 Me benzylidenyl 70 Me 3 phenyl n prop 2 enylidenyl 71 Me 3 phenyl n propylidenyl 72 Me pyrid 4 yl methylidenyl 73 Me 2 amino thiazol 4 yl ethylidenyl 74 Me phenethylidenyl 75 Me indol 3 yl methylidenyl 76 Me adamant l yl methylidenyl 77 Me 3 methylthio n propylidenyl 78 Me n undecylidenyl aIn these compounds, n 1 and R3 and R4 H Table III Illustrative Formula la Compounds wherein R1 R2 and R3 R4 Alkylidenyl or AlkenylidenylaCmpd. No. R R1 R2 Group R3 R4 Group 79 Me n decylidenyl n decylidenyl 80 Me n nonylidenyl n nonylidenyl 81 Me n octylidenyl n octylidenyl 82 Me n heptylidenyl n heptylidenyl 83 Me n butylidenyl n butylidenyl 84 Me n propylidenyl n propylidenyl 85 Me ethylidenyl ethylidenyl 86 H n decylidenyl n decylidenyl 87 Me isopropylidenyl isopropylidenyl 88 Me 5 hydroxy n 5 hydroxy n pentylidenyl pentylidenyl 89 Me 6 bromo n 6 bromo n hexylidenyl hexylidenyl 90 Me 3 ethoxy n 3 ethoxy n propylidenyl propylidenyl 91 Me benzylidenyl benzylidenyl 92 Me 3 phenyl n prop 3 phenyl n prop 2 enylidenyl 2 enylidenyl 93 Me 3 phenyl n 3 phenyl n propylidenyl propylidenyl 94 Me pyrid 4 yl pyrid 4 yl methylidenyl methylidenyl 95 Me 2 aminothiazol 4 2 aminothiazol 4 yl ethylidenyl yl ethylidenyl 96 Me phenethylidenyl phenethylidenyl 97 Me indol 3 yl indol 3 yl methylidenyl methylidenyl 9 Ne adamant 1 yl adamant 1 yl methylidenyl methylidenyl ain these compounds, n 1 Table IV Illustrative Formula la Compounds wherein R3 and R4 Alkylidenyl or AlkenylidenylaCompound No. R R3 R4 Group 99 Me n dodecylidenyl 100 Me n decylidenyl 101 Me n nonylidenyl 102 Me n octylidenyl 103 Me n heptylidenyl 104 Me n hexylidenyl 105 Me n pentylidenyl 106 Me n butylidenyl 107 Me n propylidenyl 108 Me ethylidenyl 109 H n decylidenyl 110 Me isopentylidenyl 111 Me 5 hydroxy n pentylidenyl 112 Me 6 bromo n hexylidenyl 113 Me 3 ethoxy n propylidenyl 114 Me benzylidenyl 115 Me 3 phenyl n prop 2 enylidenyl 116 Me 3 phenyl n propylidenyl 117 Me pyrid 4 yl methylidenyl 118 Me 2 amino thiazol 4 yl ethylidenyl 119 Me phenethylidenyl 120 Me indol 3 yl methylidenyl 121 Me adamant l yl methylidenyl 122 Me n undecylidenyl 123 Me 3 methylthio n propylidenyl ain these compounds, n 1 and R2 H Illustrative formula 2 compounds of this invention are listed in Tables V and VI.Table V Illustrative Formula 2b CompoundsCompound b b No. 2a 3a 124 Me n decyl 125 H n decyl 126 Me n hexadecyl 127 Me isooctyl 128 Me n butyl 129 Me benzyl 130 Me 5 hydroxypentyl 131 Me 3 methylthio n propyl 132 Me 3 phenyl n prop 2 enyl 133 H pyrid 3 yl methyl 134 Me benzylTable VI Illustrative Formula 2a CompoundsCompound No. R R3a R4a Group 135 Me n decylidenyl 136 H n decylidenyl 137 Me n hexadecylidenyl 138 Me isooctylidenyl 139 Me n butylidenyl 140 Me benzylidenyl 141 Me 5 hydroxy n pentylidenyl 142 Me 3 methylthio n propylidenyl 143 Me 3 phenyl n prop 2 enylidenyl 144 H pyrid 3 yl methylidenyl 145 Me benzylidenyl The formula I compounds inhibit the growth of a broad spectrum of pathogenic bacteria, especially Gram positive bacteria.Table VII summarizes the minimal inhibitory concentrations MIC s at which the compounds inhibit certain organisms, as determined by standard agar dilution assays. Table VII In Vitro Activity of Formula 1 and 2 Compounds MIC mcg ml Organism Compound Numbera 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10Staphylococcus aureus NRRL B313 0.25 0.125 0.5 2 0.25 1 0.25 0.5 1 0.25Staphylococcus aureus V41 0.25 0.25 0.5 4 0.25 1 0.25 0.5 1 0.5Staphylococcus aureus X400 0.25 0.25 0.5 4 0.25 1 0.25 1 1 0.5Staphylococcus aureus S13E 0.25 0.25 0.5 4 0.25 1 0.25 1 1 0.5Staphylococcus epidermidis EPI1 0.5 0.25 2 16 0.5 4 1 2 4 2Staphylococcus epidermidis 222 0.125 0.25 1 4 0.25 2 0.5 1 2 1Streptococcus pyogenes C203 0.125 0.06 0.5 2 0.125 1 0.125 0.5 0.5 0.5Streptococcus pneumoniac Park I 0.25 0.125 0.5 4 0.25 2 0.125 1 1 0.125Streptococcus faecium ATCC 9790 0.25 0.25 0.5 4 0.25 1 0.25 1 1 0.5Streptococcus sp. group D 2041 0.125 0.25 1 4 0.5 2 0.5 2 2 1Haemophilus influenzae C.L. 128 128 128 128 128 128 128 128 128 128Haemophilus influenzae 76 128 128 128 128 128 128 128 128 128 128Escherichia coli N10 128 128 128 128 128 128 128 128 128 128Escherichia coli EC14 128 128 128 128 128 128 128 128 128 128Escherichia coli TEM 128 128 128 128 128 128 128 128 128 128Klebsiella pneumoniae X26 128 128 128 128 128 128 128 128 128 128Klebsiella pneumoniae X68 128 128 128 128 128 128 128 128 128 128Klebsiella pneumoniae KAE 128 128 128 128 128 128 128 128 128 128 Table VII In Vitro Activity of Formula 1 and 2 Compounds cont d. MIC mcg ml Organism Compound Numbera 12 13 15 17 19 20 22 24 26 124Staphylococcus aureus NRRL B313 0.5 0.5 0.5 1 0.5 1 2 1 0.25 0.5Staphylococcus aureus V41 1 1 1 1 1 1 2 1 0.25 0.5Staphylococcus aureus X400 1 1 1 1 1 1 2 2 0.25 0.5Staphylococcus aureus S13E 1 0.5 1 1 1 1 2 1 0.25 0.5Staphylococcus epidermidis EPI1 2 2 2 4 2 4 4 2 0.5 1Staphylococcus epidermidis 222 1 1 1 2 1 1 4 2 0.25 0.5Streptococcus pyogenes C203 0.5 0.5 0.5 1 0.5 0.5 2 1 0.25 0.25Streptococcus pneumoniac Park I 0.5 0.125 0.125 0.5 0.5 0.5 1 1 0.25 0.5Streptococcus faecium ATCC 9790 1 1 1 2 1 1 2 2 0.5 0.5Streptococcus sp. group D 2041 1 1 2 4 2 1 8 4 0.5 0.5Haemophilus influenzae C.L. 128 128 128 128 128 128 128 128 128 64Haemophilus influenzae 76 128 128 128 128 128 128 128 128 128 64Escherichia coli N10 128 128 128 128 128 128 128 128 128 64Escherichia coli EC14 128 128 128 128 128 128 128 128 128 64Escherichia coli TEM 128 128 128 128 128 128 128 128 128 64Klebsiella pneumoniae X26 128 128 128 128 128 128 128 128 128 64Klebsiella pneumoniae X68 128 128 128 128 128 128 128 128 128 64Klebsiella pneumoniae KAE 128 128 128 128 128 128 128 128 128 64 aCompound Numbers from Tables I V The compounds of this invention have also shown in vivo antimicrobial activity against experi RTI ID 17.2 menta bacterial infections. When two doses of test compound were administered to mice in experimental infections, the activity observed was measured as an ED5, value effective dose in mg kg to protect 50 of the test aminals see Warren Wick, et al., J . Bacteriol. 81, 233 23 5 1961 J. ED, values observed are given in Table VEIL. Table VIII ED50 Values for Formula 1 Compoundsa ED50 mg kg 2 Organism Compound Numbresb 1 2 3 5 7 8Staphylococcus aureus 5. 1.8 5 2.9 3.4 5Streptococcus pyogenes 0.31 1.6 4.6 0.56 0.98 3.7Streptococcus pneumoniae 0.42 0.51 3.6 0.81 0.44 3.1 aAdministered subcutaneously Compound numbers from Table I Pharmaceutical formulations of formula I and their pharmaceutically acceptable salts are also part of this invention. Thus, a formula I compound, preferably as a pharmaceutically acceptable salt, can be formulated for oral or parenteral administration for the therapeutic or prophylactic treatment of bacterial infections.For example, the compound can be admixed with conventional pharmaceutical carriers and excipients and used in the form of tablets, capsuies, elixirs, suspensions, syrups, wafers and the like. The compositions comprising a formula I compound will contain from about 0.1 to about 90 by weight of the active compound, and more generally from about 10 to about 30 . The compositions may contain common carriers and excipients, such as corn starch or gelatin, lactose, sucrose, microcrystalline cellulose, kaolin, mannitol, dicalcium phosphate, sodium chloride and alginic acid. Disintegrators commonly used in the formulations of this invention include croscarmellose sodium, microcrystalline cellulose.corn starch, sodium starch glycolate and alginic acid. Tablet binders that can be included are acacia, methylcellulose, sodium carboxymethylcellulose, polyvinylpyrrolidone Povidone , hydroxypropyl methylcellulose, sucrose, starch and ethylcellulose. Lubricants that can be used include magnesium stearate or other metallic stearates, stearic acid, silicone fluid, talc, waxes, oils and coiloidal silica. Flavoring agents such as peppermint oil of wintergreen, cherry flavoring or the like can also be used. It may be desirable to add a coloring agent to make the dosage form more esthetic in appearance or to he p identify the product. For intravenous IV use, a water soluble form of the antibiotic can be dissolved in one of the commonly used intravenous fluids and administered by infusion. Such fluids as, for example, physiological saline, Ringer s solution or 5 dextrose solution can be used. For intramuscular preparations, a sterile formuiation of a suitable soluble salt form of the compound, for example the hydrochloride salt, can be dissolved and administered in a pharmaceutical diluent such as Water for lnjection, physiological saline or 5 glucose solution. A suitable insoluble form of the compound may be prepared and administered as a suspension in an aqueous base or a pharmaceutically acceptable oil base, e.g. an ester of a long chain fatty acid such as ethyl oleate. For oral use, a sterile formulation of a suitable salt form of the antibiotic, for example the hydrochloride salt, formulated in a diluent such as distilled or deionized water, is particularly useful. Alternatively, the unit dosage form of the antibiotic can be a solution of the antibiotic or preferably a salt thereof in a suitable diluent in sterile, hermetically sealed ampoules. The concentration of the antibiotic in the unit dosage may vary, e.g. from about 1 percent to about 50 percent depending on the particular form of the antibiotic and its solubility and the dose desired by the physician. In a further aspect, this invention provides a method for treating infectious diseases, especially those caused by Gram positive microorganisms, in animals. The animai may be either susceptible to, or infected with, the microorganism. The method comprises administering to the animal an amount of a formula I compound or its pharmaceutically acceptable salt which is effective for this purpose.In general an effective amount of a formula I compound is a dose between about 0.5 and about 100 mg kg. A preferred dose is from about 10 to about 60 mg kg of active compound. A typical daily dose for an adult human is from about 250 mg to about 1.0 g. In practicing this method, the antibiotic can be administered in a single daily dose or in multiple doses per day. The treatment regime may require administration over extended periods of time, e.g., for several days or for from two to three weeks.The amount per administered dose or the total amount administered will depend on such factors as the nature and severity of the infection, the age and general health of the patient, the tolerance of the patient to the antibiotic and the microorganism or microorganisms involved in the infection. A convenient method of practicing the treatment method is to administer the antibiotic via IV infusion. In this procedure a sterile formulation of a suitable soluble salt of the antibiotic is incorporated in a physiological fluid, such as 5 dextrose solution, and the resulting solution is infused slowly IV.Alternatively, the piggy back method of IV infusion can also be used. In another embodiment, this invention relates to methods of increasing feed utilization efficiency in poultry, swine, sheep and cattle, of promoting growth rates in cattle raised for meat production and of enhancing milk production in lactating ruminants. For increasing feed utilization efficiency and promoting growth, a formula I compound is administered orally in a suitable feed in an amount of from about 2 to about 200 grams per ton of total feed. For beef cattle, for example, a range of about 12 to 3000 mg head day is suitable. For enhancing milk production in lactating ruminants, oral administration of a daily amount of from about 0.04 to about 16 mg kg of body weight or about 25 to about 5000 mg ruminant day is suggested.The following examples are provided to illustrate this invention. To simplify discussion, N van is used to indicate the nitrogen on vancosamine and N eU is used to indicate the nitrogen in the leucine group. Reactions were followed by analytical high performance liquid chromatography HPLC using a Water s Bondapak C1 column with a gradient solvent system of CH3CN and 0.5 triethylamine pH 3 buffer and detecting with UV at 254 nm.Examples 1 2Preparation of NVan n Decylidenyl vancomycin Compound 100 and NVan n Decyl vancomycin Compound 2 Vancomycin free base 5 g, 3.58 mmoles was dissolved in dimethylformamide DMF, 75 ml . nDecyl aldehyde 0.7 ml, 3.72 mmoles was added.The reaction mixture was stirred for 2 hours in a 70 C. oil bath to give NVan n decylidenyl vancomycin Compound 100 . Sodium cyanoborohydride 275 mg. 4.4 mmoles was added to the solution containingCompound 100. The reaction mixture was stirred for another 2 hours in the oil bath and then was cooled to room temperature and transferred to aVirtis jar. Celite was added until a thick paste formed. The paste was evaporated under vacuum overnight. The powdery residue obtained was stirred with methanol and filtered three times. The methanol filtrates were combined and evaporated to dryness under vacuum. The residue obtained was triturated with diethyl ether. The insoiuble residue was dissolved in methanol and filtered, and the filtrate was evaporated to dryness under vacuum. This product was purified by reversed phase high performance liquid chromatography HPLC , using a Water s Prep Pak 500 column, eluting with an aceto nitrile water gradient system and detecting with UV at 280 nm, to give 793.5 mg of Nvan. n. decyl vancomycin Compound 2 . The identity of the product was confirmed by fast atom bombardment mass spectrometry FABMS .Examples 3 30 The procedure described Examples 1 2 with the appropriate starting aldehyde was used to prepare mono NVan , mono NIeu and di N van Nleu derivatives. In general, the smaller the group to be added, the more complex the crude product and the more difficult the isolation. Generally, the major product is the Nvaflderivative. When A51 568A is the starting antibiotic, however, the major product is the NleU derivative. Once again the identity of the product was confirmed by fast atom bombardment mass spectrometry. The intermediate Schiff s bases were not isolated ni but a molecular ion is given in all cases for the reduced alkyl product.The following compounds were thus prepared Compound Name 99 Nvan n dodecylidenyl vancomycin ni 1 Nvan n dodecyl vancomycin, M 1615 79 Nvan, Nleu di n decylidenyl vancomycin ni 4 Nvan, Nleu di n decyl vancomycin, M 1727 55 Nleu n decylidenyl vancomycin ni 3 Nleu n decyl vancomycin, M 1 1588 101 Nvan n nonylidenyl vancomycin ni 5 Nvan n nonyl vancomycin, M 1573 80 Nvan, Nle di n nonylidenyl9vancomycin ni 6 Nvan, Nleu di n nonyl vancomycin, M 1700 102 Nvan n octylidenyl vancomycin ni 7 Nvan n octyl vancomycin, M 1 1560 81 Nvan, Nleu di n octylidenyl vancomycin ni 9 Nvan, Nleu di n octyl vancomycin, M 1671 57 Nleu n octylidenyl vancomycin ni 8 Nleu n octyl vancomycin, M 1 1560 103 N an n heptylidenyl vancomycin ni 10 Nvan n heptyl vancomycin, M 1545 82 Nvan, Nleu di n heptylidenyl vancomycin ni 12 Nvan, Nleu di n heptyl vancomycin, M 1 1643 58 Nleu n heptylideyl ni 11 Nleu n heptyl , M 1545 104 N van n hexylidenyl vancomycin ni 13 Nvan nhexyl vancomycin, M 1531 59 Nleu n hexylidenyl vancomycin ni 14 Nleu n hexyl vancomycin, M 1531 105 Nvan n pentylidenyl vancomycin ni 15 Nvan n pentyl vancomycin, M i 1518 Compound Name 60 Nleu n pentylidenyl vancomycin ni 16 Nleu n pentyl vancomycin, M 1 1727 106 Nvan n butylidenyl vancomycin ni 17 Nvan n butyl vancomycin, M 1503 83 Nvan, Nleu di n butylidenyl vancomycin ni 19 Nvan, Nle di n butyl vancomycin, M 1 1560 61 Nleu n butylidenyl vancomycin ni 18 Nleu n butyl vancomycin, M 1503 107 Nvan n propylidenyl vancomycin ni 20 Nvan n propyl vancomycin, M 1 1490 84 Nvan, Nleu di n propylidenyl vancomycin ni 22 Nvan, Nleu di n propyl vancomycin, M 1 1532 62 Nleu n propylidenyl vancomycin ni 21 Nleu n propyl vancomycin ,M 1 1490 85 Nvan, Nleu di ethylidenyl vancomycin ni 24 Nvan, Nleu diethylvancomycin, M 1503 63 Nleu ethylidenylvancomycin, N 1503 23 Nleu ethylvancomycin, M 1475 28 Nvan, Nleu dimethylvancomycin 64 pure , M 1476 64 Nleu n decylidenyl A51568A ni 25 Nleu n decyl A51568A, M 1573 109 Nvan n decylidenyl A51568A ni 26 Nvan n decyl A51568A, M 1573 135 Nvan n decylidenyl M43A ni 124 Nvan n decyl M43A, M 1 1616 122 Nvan n undecylidenyl vancomycin ni 52 Nvan n undecyl vancomycin, M 1 1602 113 Nvan 3 ethoxy n propylidenyl vancomycin ni 36 Nvan 3 ethoxy n propyl vancomycin, M 1 1534 68 Nleu 3 ethoxy n propylidenyl vancomycin ni 37 Nleu 3 ethoxy n propyl vancomycin, M 1 1534 90 Nvan,Nleu di 3 ethoxy n propylidenyl vancomycin ni 38 Nvan,Nleu di 3 ethoxy n propyl vancomycin, M 1 1619 111N vancomycin ni 31 Nvan, 5 hydroxy n pentyl vancomycin, M 1533 66 Nleu 5 hydroxy n pentylidenyl vancomycin ni 32 Nleu 5 hydroxy n pentyl vancomycin, M 1533 88 Nvan,Nleu di 5 hydroxy n pentylidenyl vancomycin ni 33 Nvan,Nleu di 5 hydroxy n pentyl vancomycin, M 1619 123 Nvan 3 methylthio n propylidenyl vancomycin ni 53 Nvan 3 methylthio n propyl vancomycin, M 1536 77 Nleu 3 methylthio n propylidenyl vancomycin ni 54 Nleu 3 methylthio n propyl vancomycin, M 1536Similarly prepared were the following reduced compounds. Once again, the intermediate Schiff s bases were not isolated. Nva cyclohexylmethyl vancomycin, M 1543Nleu cyclohexylmethyl vancomycin, M 1543Nvan,Nleu di cyclohexylmethyl vancomycin,M 1639 N e diethylaminobenzyl vancomycin, M 1 1609Nvan p isopropylbenzyl vancomycin, M 1579N Va benzyl vancomycin. M 1538 Nvan p bromobenzyl vancomycin, M 1617Nvan p butylbenzyl vancomycin, M 1 1594Nvan ,Nleu p butylbenzyl vancomycin, M 1 1740 Nvan Nleu p butoxybenzyl vancomycin, M 1771Nvan p butoxybenzyl vancomycin, M 1609Nvan 4 pentylbenzyl vancomycin,M 1 1608Nvan 4 pentyloxybenzyl vancomycin, M 1 1624 Nvan pyrrol 2 ylmethyl vancomycin, M 1 1526Nvan pyridin 2 ylmethyl vancomycin, M 1538Nvan furan 2 ylmethyl vancomycin, poor spectrum Nvan,Nleu p isopropylbenzyl vancomycin,M 1711Nvan p methylthiobenzyl vancomycin, M 1583Nvan,Nleu p methylthiobenzyl vancomycin,M 1583Nvan p octylbenzyl vancomycin M 1 1650 NVan e octyloxybenzyl vancomycin, M 1 1665Nvan p methoxybenzyl vancomycin, M 1 1568Nleu 6 nitro 3,4 dimethoxybenzyl vancomycin, M 1 1642Nleu 6 nitro 3,4 dimethoxybenzyl vancomycin, M 1 1642Nleu p methoxybenzyl vancomycin 65 pure , M 1 1568 Nvan,Nleu e methoxybenzyl vancomycin, M 1 1668Nvan bromobenzyl vancomycin, M 1617Nvan p bromobenzyl vancomycin, M 1617Nvan p chlorobenzyl vancomycin, M 1572Nvan 2,6 dichlorobenzyl vancomycin, M 1606 NYa pacetamidobenzyl vancomycin, M 1595 Nvan phydroxybenzyl vancomycin, M 1553Nleu p hydroxybenzyl vancomycin, M 1553Nvan,Nleu p hydroxybenzyl vancomycin, M 1659Nvan p dimethylaminobenzyl vancomycin, M 1 1581Nvan p cyanobenzyl vancomycin, M 1 1563