# Disposable pressure transducer for use with a catheter.

## Abstract
A disposable blood pressure transducer system for use with a catheter with or without a catheter flush flow valve. The transducer housing has both electrical and fluid connections, with the electrical connections being protected from contamination by fluid.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A catheter type pressure transducer system for continuous blood pressure monitoring comprising a housing having first and second fluid ports, a fluid flow path between said fluid ports, and an electrical connection port electrically isolated from said fluid flow path pressure transducer means positioned in pressure sensing communication with said fluid flow path for developing a signal representative of the pressure of a fluid in said fluid flow path electrical connecting means extending from said pressure transducer means into said electrical connection port for supplying said signal to a remote location a cable adapted at a first end for connection to a blood pressure indicating instrument and a cable connector at a second end of said cable having a body engaging said electrical connection port with a fluid seal and contact means engaging said electrical connecting means for conducting said signal along said cable. 2. A catheter type pressure transducer system according to claim 1 wherein a said electrical connection port is a socket and b said electrical connecting means include a circuit card to which said pressure transducer means are connected and on which said pressure transducer means are mounted, said circuit card extending into said socket and having contact means engaging said contact means of said cable connector for conducting said signal to said cable and c Said body of said cable connector has a recess which is tightly fitted over the outside surface of said socket. 3. A catheter type pressure transducer system according to claim 2 wherein said cable connector further includes i a cap mounted for pivotal movement between an open position in which said cylindrical recess is open and a closed position in which said cylindrical recess is closed by said cap and ii a spring biasing said cap to cover said cylindrical recess when said cable connector is disconnected from said barrel shaped socket and against which said cap acts when moved to said open position. 4. A catheter type pressure transducer system according to claims 1 or 3 further including a vent port opening into said housing in the space surrounding pressure transducer means wherein said vent port is filled with a porous hydrophobic material. 5. A catheter type pressure transducer system, as recited in claims 1 or 4, further including a splash curtain on which said housing is mounted with the openings to said fluid ports on one side of said curtain and the opening to said electrical connection port on an opposite side of said curtain. 6. A catheter type pressure transducer system according to any of claims 1 through 5 further including valve means positioned between said fluid ports for regulating fluid flow in said fluid flow path. 7. A catheter type pressure transducer unit for patient blood pressure monitoring comprising a housing having first and second fluid ports, a fluid flow path between said fluid ports, and an electrical connection port electrically isolated from said fluid flow path pressure transducer means positioned in pressure sensing communication with said fluid flow path for developing a signal representative of the pressure of a fluid in said fluid flow path electrical connecting means extending from said pressure transducer means into said electrical connection port for supplying said signal to a remote location and a splash curtain on which said housing is mounted with the openings to said fluid ports on one side of said curtain and the opening to said electrical connection port on an opposite side of said curtain. 8. A catheter type pressure transducer unit according to claim 7 wherein said splash curtain has means for attachment to a vertical pole. 9. A catheter type pressure transducer unit according to claim 8 wherein said splash curtain has a vertical surface within which said housing is mounted with said electrical connection port protruding from an opposite vertical surface and a top flange extending over said electrical connection port. 10. A catheter type pressure transducer unit according to claim 9 wherein a said electrical connection port is a barrel shaped socket and b said electrical connecting means include a circuit card to which said pressure transducer means are connected and on which said pressure transducer means are mounted, said circuit card extending into said socket and having contact means engaging said contact means of said cable connector for conducting said signal to said cable further including a vent port opening into said housing in the space surrounding said pressure transducer means, and a porous hydrophobic material in said vent port. 11. A catheter type pressure transducer unit according to any of claims 7 10 further including valve means positioned between said fluid ports for regulating fluid flow in said fluid flow path.

## Description
DISPOSABLE PRESSURE TRANSDUCER FOR USE WITH A CATHETER Background Qf the Invention Accurate and continuous measurement of blood pressure requires catheterization of the blood vessel of interest. Typically, the tip of a thin hollow catheter is inserted into the blood vessel to the point of interest. Saline solution is then typically infused through this catheter in order to provide a medium for the transmission of pressure waves through the catheter to a transducer element located outside the body. Traditionally, pressure transducers have been reusable elements involving some sort of strainsensitive resistive wires or semiconductor elements bonded to a diaphram which contacts the pressure transmitting fluid However, such reusable pressure transducers introduce the possibility, over time, of contamination and deterioration of the delicate transducer elements. Repeated sterilizations, daily wear and tear such as temperature variation, pressure variation, impact, and vibration, may all contribute to reduced sensitivity, linearity, accuracy, and life of such a reusable device. In order to overcome the deficiencies of reusable pressure transducers, there have been developed disposable pressure transducers. Such disposable transducers have several advantages over the reusable type including the necessity to sterilize each unit only once, the reduction in handling, wear and tear, the avoidance of environmental variations in repetitive usage, and the enhanced electrical characteristics of a single use element solid state transducer. Among the disposable blood pressure transducing elements commercially available are those manufactured by Cobe Laboratories, Inc., Gould, Inc., Norton Company, Sorensen Research Company, and Healthdine Cardiovascular, Inc. Of the commercially available models, all are generally used by mounting on a bedside vertical pole directly below a saline source, typically a sterile plastic bag. Fluid connections are typically made with Linden fittings which are either molded as part of the device housing or attached to short lengths of plastic tubing. Alternatively, fluid connections may be made with Luer lock fittings and some units may be mounted on the upper arm of the patient by using a strap and special mounting base. Most commercially available disposable pressure transducers are connected to their associated monitoring electronics through an attached short length of electrical wire terminating in a connector.This wire is generally refered to as a pigtail. Because pressure transducers are typically mounted on a bedside pole directly below a saline source, isolation of electrical connections from the saline solution is especially important. A shortcoming of those units lacking a pigtail connection is their susceptibility to damage from saline exposure, either during installation, or during operation due to leaking connections. Such damage may not be externally evident to the attending professionals but rather may affect the accuracy and reliability of the transducer elements, thereby exposing the patient to unnecessary risk. In those units having a pigtail, electrical connections may be made to the unit after its installation on the pole.However, such units are often equally susceptible to leaking connections since fluid can travel down the pigtail and invade the connector. Typically, these disposable transducers are associated with, and in some cases are made integral with a catheter patency flush flow valve assembly and housing, through which saline solution is infused through an in dwelling vascular catheter at a selectively controlled rate. It is the general objective of the present invention to provide a disposable pressure transducer system, for continuous blood pressure monitoring, which is less susceptible than those heretofore available to fluid contamination of electrical connections. the Description Qf the Invention A catheter type pressure transducer system, constructed in accordance with the present invention, has two main components a housing in which the pressure transducer is located and a cable having a connector for receiving the transducer signal and conducting the signal to a remote blood pressure indicating instrument.The housing has first and second fluid ports, a fluid flow path between the fluid ports, and an electrical connection port electrically isolated from the fluid flow path Pressure transducer means are positioned in pressure sensing communication with the fluid flow path for developing a signal representative of the pressure of a fluid in the fluid flow path Electrical connecting means extending from the pressure transducer means into the electrical connection port bring the transducer signal to the cable connector. The body of the cable connector engages the electrical connection port with a fluid seal. In a preferred embodiment of the invention, the housing is mounted on a splash curtain with the entrances to the fluid ports on one side of the curtain and the entrance to the electrical connection port on an opposite side of the curtain.Preferably also, the transducer assembly and housing are made integral with a catheter patentcy flush flow valve assembly and housing sometimes referred to as a catheter flush flow valve . Brief Pescription nf the Figures Figure 1 is a perspective view of a first embodiment of the present invention Figure 2 is a rear view of the Figure 1 embodiment of the present invention. Figure 3 is a partial cross sectional view taken along line 3 3 of Figure 1 with an associated cable and plug. Figure 4 is a front view of a second embodiment of the present invention. Figure 5 is an exploded perspective view of the Figure 4 embodiment of the present invention Figure 6 is a partial vertical sectional view of the transducer housing of a third embodiment of the present invention. Detailed Descr iption Qfthe Referring now to Figures 1 and 2, there is shown a pressure transducer system catheter flush flow valve assembly constructed in accordance with the present invention In operation, the entire assembly depicted in Figures 1 and 2 would be clamped to a pole and held securely in place by a separate gripping member clamped about a flange 12 on the backside of splash curtain 10 or about flange 12a on the bottom of curtain 10. Curtain 10 carries catheter flush flow valve housing 16 having fluid inlet port 33, fluid outlet port 35, an internal fluid flow path between inlet port 33 and outlet port 35, and electrical connection port 31 isolated from the fluid flow path. A source of saline solution usually mounted above the transducer flusher on a vertical pole or optionally including an infusion pump mounted remotely is connected to fluid inlet port 33 and flows in either a slow flow mode or a flushing mode through the flusher and exits at fluid outlet port 35 which is connected to a catheter. The position of a manual actuator 39 of a valve, at a location in the valve housing identified by reference numeral 37, regulates the flow rate of fluid flowing from fluid inlet port 33 to fluid outlet port 35. Actuator 39 is springbiased into a position permitting only slow fluid flow. By pushing actuator 39 inward to the right in Figure 2 , the valve opens to permit a faster flushing flow. At the leftward end as shown in the fig ures of housing 16 is transducer housing 300 in which is located a pressure transducer means not shown in Figure 1 positioned in the fluid flow path between fluid inlet port 33 and fluid outlet port 35. The pressure transducer means and its operation will be considered in greater detail in connection with Figure 3. Curtain 10 comprises front surface 13, top flange 11, a pair of side flanges 17 only one is shown in Figure 1 and curtain mounting flanges 12 and 12a As will be appreciated from the figures, curtain 10 is designed to deflect fluid impinging upon it from the top or front away from its rear surface at which electrical connection port 31 opens. Shielding of electrical connection port 31 from fluid which drops from a saline solution bag or connecting tubes is accomplished by mounting housing 16 on splash cur tain 10 with the openings to fluid ports 33 and 35 on one side of the curtain and the opening to electrical connection port 31 on an opposite side of the curtain. Referring now to Figure 3, one sees, in section, the left hand end of housing 16, transducer housing 300 and pressure transducer means as described more fully below. A cable 40 conducts the transducer signal to a remote blood ressure indicating instrument. Housing 300 is sealingly secured such as by a sealing adhesive to splash curtain 10 by means of a mounting flange 30 which is a part of housing 300 and fits within a corresponding opening in the curtain, so that electrical connection port 31 protrudes from the back surface of curtain 10. Within transducer housing 300, transducer 14 is mounted on transducer circuit card 310. Card 310 includes associated equalization circuitry necessary for operation of the transducer and slide on connector leads not shown at the end 311 of card 310 distal from transducer 14. Circuit card 310 is adhesively bonded to leftwardly facing inner surface 320 of housing 300.Surface 320 includes pressure transmitting port 321, by which transducer element 14 is coupled, for pressure sensing, to the fluid flowing from inlet port 33 to outlet port 35. Pressure transmitting cylindrical plug 305 a silicone gel in this embodiment of the invention , sealingly disposed in port 321, effects electrical isolation of electrical connection port 31 from the fluid flow path in housing 16, while effec ting a pressure sensing or transmitting communication between transducer 14 and that fluid path. Plug 305 is suitably opaque to reduce light sensitive effects present in the transducer. Transducer 14, in this embodiment of the invention, comprises a micromachined silicon diaphragm device in which electrical characteristics change in response to changes in the pressure in the medium being sensed and with which the device is in physical contact. Electrical connection port 31 is in the form of a barrel shaped socket. End 311 of circuit card 310 extends into this socket and presents sliding contact points not shown which are engaged when a mating cable connector 15 at the end of cable 40 is fitted over the socket. Connector 15 has a cylindrical recess within its body 20 which is tightly fitted over the outside surface of socket 31. Located at the rear end of the cylindrical recess is an O ring 21 which is engaged by the edge of socket 31 and prevents fluid entry into the interior of the cable connector when it is secured in position on socket 31. A detent ring 32 on socket 31 engages a groove 38 in cable connector 15 as the connector is fitted over the socket. This engagement maintains the relationship between the connector and the socket and thereby controls the sealing compression of 0 ring 21.At its distal end, cable 40 transmits the transducer signal to a remote blood pressure indicating instrument. Within connector body 20 is housed a pair of floating connector members 219 and 215 which cooperate to create a reliable electrical connection between the sliding contact points of circuit card 310 and the wires in cable 40. Connector body 20 is entered at its rear most end by cable 40 which is provided with a water tight elastomeric seal and strain relief means 43. The conductors within cable 40 are separated into a plurality of wires of which wire 46 is but one.These wires are attached to a plurality of electrical contact members of which 217 is but one. Electrical contact member 217 is carried upon connector member 219 and is opposed by connector member 215. Both connector member 215 and connector member 219 are carried within a pair of mating recesses 271 and 273 formed by a flange 272 of connector housing 20. It should be noted that connector members 219 and 215 are allowed a small degree of freedom to move within connector body 20 and thus adjust to imperfections and variations of position of circuit card 310. When connector 15 is attached to socket 31, air is trapped within the connector, the socket and housing 300 containing transducer 14, thereby creating a pressurized environment. Unless vented, such a pressurized environment would provide an incorrect indication of pressure. Housing 300, in the vicinity of transducer 14, therefore, has a vent port filled with a vent plug 340 which is composed of a porous hydrophobic material. Vent plug 340 permits pressure equilibration with atmospheric pressure in order to assure accurate readings while preventing the entry of aqueous fluids into the vicinity of the transducer or its associated electronics and connectors. Cable connector 15 carries a protective cap 25 which provides further protection against entry of fluid into the interior of the connector. Cap 25 is mounted on connector 15 for pivotal movement between an open position, as shown in Figure 3, and a closed position in which the cylindrical recess within the connector body is closed by the cap Cap 25 pivots about the axis of a pin 112 which passes through a pair of spaced extensions 114 on the cap only one is shown in Figure 3 and a pair of spaced supports 115 on the connector only one is shown in Figure 3 . A spring 110 biases cap 25 to cover the cylindrical recess within the connector body when the connector is disconnected from socket 31. While the connector is connected to socket 31, protective cap 25 is retained in its open position by a retaining post 100 which extends away from the rear surface of curtain 10 and engages the cap Upon removal of connector 15 and disengagement of cap 25 from post 100, spring 110 urges the cap to move to the closed position counterclockwise in Figure 3 and seal off the opening into the recess in the connector. This is accomplished by an O ring 27 which is carried by the cap as the O ring is compressed against the open end of connector body 20. When cable connector 15 is being connected to socket 31, protective cap 25 is retracted against the action of spring 110 and held in place by the user s thumb until the desired connection is made and post 100 engages the cap. For further protection against entry of fluid into the interior of socket 31, the transducer flusher unit is supplied with a disposable elastomeric cap 116. Cap 116 is removed from socket 31, as shown in Figure 3, so that cable connector 15 can be connected to socket 31. Referring now to Figures 4 and 5, there is shown an alternative mounting for the transducer flusher of the present invention. As depicted in Figures 4 and 5, curtain 10 of Figure 1 is replaced by a mounting base 400. The entire transducer flusher assembly is removably mounted on base 400 which is then secured in position directly on the patient being monitored. Typically, base 400 is secured by a strap having an opposing hook and loop closure e.g. VELCRO means 500 which is passed continuously through a pair of slots 410 and 415 in base 400. The entire transducer flusher assembly is retained in place on base 400 by its insertion into a mounting plate 430 which has a central opening 432 for receiv ing a cylindrical projection 330. In addition, a pair of opposing jaws 420 and 425 resiliently retain a flange 38 surrounding actuator 39. It should be noted that in this patient mounted configuration, the relative orientations between electrical socket 431 and fluid outlet port 435, as depicted in Figure 4, are different from the relative orientations of electrical socket 31 and fluid outlet port 35, as depicted in Figure 1. In Figure 1, socket 31 and outlet port 35 are at a right angle to one another, while in Figure 4 the two extend parallel to one another in opposite directions. In addition, luer fitting 33 of the pole mounted version of Figure 1 is replaced by a short length of hollow tubing 433 which may terminate in a luer fitting. Tubing 443 may be of such a length as to displace its fluid connection fram the region of flange 30. Alternatively, tubing 433 may be flexible to allow it to be displaced out of the region of flange 30.Finally, cap retaining post 100 of the pole mount version is present as post 440 of the patient mounted version. In all other respects, the patient mounted version of the present invention is identical to the pole mounted version and contains elements as depicted in Figures 1 3. The third embodiment of the present invention, shown in Figure 6, is generally similar to the first two embodiments but differs in not having a valve for regulating fluid flow between an inlet port 633 and an outlet port 635. Fluid flow is fixed, insofar as the transducer system is concerned, by the dimensions and characteristics of the inlet and outlet ports and the fluid flow path. As in the embodiment of Figure 1, the Figure 6 embodiment includes transducer housing 301 similar to housing 300 and mounting flange 30, behind which is located an electrical connection port 31 in Figure 1, but not seen in Figure 6 . Housing 301 differs from housing 300 in that housing 301 includes a closure wall 600 at its rightwardly facing end as seen in the figures rather than being open to the fluid passageway in a flush flow valve assembly. It should be pointed out that the embodiment shown in Figure 6 also may be used by closing off fluid outlet port 635 and connecting fluid inlet 633 to the leg of a wTw section coupling with saline solution flowing through the top of the wTw section coupling. In such a case, the transducer measures the static pressure built up in the line running from the wTw section coupling to fluid inlet port 633. Having described the invention with respect to certain embodiments, it should nonetheless be understood that other configurations will be apparent to those skilled in the art. It is intended therefore that this invention be defined by the claims which follow so as to encompass all of those variations within the true spirit and scope of the invention.