# 6 1 acyl 1 hydroxy methyl penicillanic acid derivatives

## Abstract
Compounds having the formula These compounds are useful as antibacterials and or beta lactamase inhibitors.

## Claims
1. A compound having the formula wherein n is 0, 1 or 2 X is OH or OCOR², wherein R² is hydrogen or C₁ C₄ alkyl R is hydrogen, a radical group forming an ester hydrolyzable under physiological conditions, or an acyloxymethyl or 1 acyloxy ethyl radical derived from a conventional beta lactam antibiotic and R¹ is C₁ C₇ alkyl, C₅ C₇ cycloalkyl, C₆ C₁₂ cycloalkylalkyl, C₆ C₁₂ alkylcycloalkyl, adamantyl, phenyl, C₇ C₁₂ phenylalkyl, C₇ C₁₂ alkyl phenyl, C₇ C₁₂ phenoxyalkyl, naphthyl, furyl C₅ C₁₀ furylalkyl, benzofuranyl, benzofuranylmethyl, thienyl, C₅ C₁₀ thienylalkyl, benzothienyl, benzothienyl methyl, C₅ C₈ N alkylpyrrolyl, N phenylpyrrolyl, C₁₁ C₁₂ N phenylalkyl pyrrolyl, C₆ C₁₂ N alkyl pyrrolylalkyl, C₉ C₁₂ N alkylindolyl, C₉ C₁₂ N alkylindolylmethyl, C₉ C₁₂ N alkylisoindolyl, C₉ C₁₂ N alkylisoindolylmethyl, indolizinyl, indoli zinylmethyl, oxazolyl, C₄ C₉ oxazolylalkyl, benzoxa zolyl, benzoxazolylmethyl, isoxazolyl, C₄ C₉ isoxa zolylalkyl, benzisoxazolyl, benzisoxazolylmethyl, thiazolyl, C₄ C₉ thiazolylalkyl, benzothiazolyl, benzothiazolylmethyl, isothiazolyl, C₄ C₉ isothia zolylalkyl, benzothiazolyl, benzothiazolylmethyl, C₄ C₇ N alkylpyrazolyl, C₅ C₁₁ N alkylpyrazolyl alkyl, C₈ C₁₁ N alkylindazolyl, C₈ C₁₁ N alkyl indazolylmethyl, C₄ C₇ N alkylimidazolyl, C₅ C₁₁ N alkylimidazolylalkyl, C₈ C₁₁ N alkylbenzimidazolyl, C₈ C₁₁ N alkylbenzimidazolylmethyl, pyridyl, C₆ C₁₁ pyridylalkyl, quinolyl, quinolylmethyl, isoquinolyl, isoquinolylmethyl, pyrazinyl, C₅ C₁₀ pyrazinylalkyl, quinoxalinyl, quinoxalinylmethyl, pyrimidinyl, C₅ C₁₀ pyrimidinylalkyl, quinazolinyl, quinazolinylmethyl, pyridazinyl, C₅ C₁₀ pyridazinylalkyl, phthalazinyl, phthalazinylmethyl, cinnolinyl or cinnolinylmethyl or one of said groups mono or disubstituted on aliphatic, aromatic or heterocyclic carbon with fluoro, chloro, bromo, C₁ C₄ alkyl, phenyl, hydroxy, C₁ C₄ alkoxy, phenoxy, benzyloxy, C₂ C₅ alkoxy carbonyloxy, C₂ C₄ alkenyloxy, formyloxy, C₂ C₅ alkanoyloxy, C₂ C₅ alkoxycarbonyl, C₁ C₄ alkane sulfonamido, cyano, carbamoyl, C₂ C₅ alkylcarbamoyl, di C₁ C₄ alkylcarbamoyl, aminosulfonyl, C₁ C₄ alkyl aminosulfonyl or di C₁ C₄ alkyl aminosulfonyl, or where R¹⁰ and R¹¹ are taken separately and R¹⁰ is hydrogen, C₁ C₄ alkyl, phenyl or benzyl, and R¹¹ is hydrogen, C₁ C₄ alkyl, phenyl, benzyl, formyl, C₂ C₅ alkanoyl, benzoyl, phenoxyacetyl, phenylacetyl or phenylacetyl substituted on aromtic carbon with hydroxy or amino or R¹⁰ and R¹¹ are taken together with the nitrogen to which they are attached to form a pyrrolidine, piperidine, perhydroazepine, morpholine, piperazine, N C₁ C₄ alkyl piperazine or N C₂ C₅ alkanoyl piperazine ring where said disubstituents may be the same or different with the provisos that no tetra hedral carbon is simultaneously bonded to a nitrogen or oxygen atom and a fluoro, chloro, bromo or second nitrogen or oxygen atom and that no nitrogen is quaternary a pharmaceutically acceptable cationic salt when the compound contains a carboxylic acid group a pharmaceutically acceptable acid addition salt when the compound contains a basic nitrogen atom.

## Description
6 1 Acyl 1 hydroxymethyl penicillanic acid derivatives, having the partial structure beta Lactamase inhibiting 6 1 hydroxyalkyl penicillanic acid 1,1 dioxides sulfones and 3 carboxylate esters thereof have been reported by Kellogg U.S. Patents 4,287,181 4,342,768 European Patent Publication 83977 , while 6 aminoacyloxy methyl penicillanic acid 1,1 dioxides have been re ported by Barth U.S. Patent 4,503,040 . Antibacterial 6 1 hydroxyalkyl penicillanic acids and their 1 oxides sulfoxides have been very broadly reported by Beattie et al., U.S. Patent 4,207,323 . While the claimed genus of Beattie et al. might possibly be construed to include some of the present compounds in a non specific manner, this reference does not even generally let alone specifically disclose any compounds containing the 6 1 acyl 1 hydroxyalkyl substituent which represents an essential feature of the present invention. U.K. Patent Application 2,053,220 broadly dis closes beta lactamase inhibiting compounds of the formula The present invention is concerned with anti bacterials, beta lactamase inhibitors and or inter mediates containing the following partial structure Preferred compounds have X as hydroxy and R¹ as alkyl, aminoalkyl, benzyloxyalkyl, cycloalkyl, adamantyl, phenyl, alkylphenyl, hydroxyalkylphenyl, chloroalkylphenyl, alkoxyphenyl, alkoxycarbonylphenyl, cyanophenyl, fluorophenyl, alkenyloxyphenyl, hydroxy phenyl, aminophenyl, dialkylaminophenyl, naphthyl, alkoxynaphthyl, furyl, thienyl, benzothienyl, benzyl, thenyl, furfuryl, phenylthiazolyl, N alkylimidazolyl, quinolinyl, isoquinolinyl, N phenylalkyl pyrrolyl, N alkylpyrrolyl, or N alkylindolyl. More preferred compounds have n as 0 and R¹ as methyl, t butyl, 1 benzyloxy 1 methylethyl, 1 methylcyclohexyl, 1 adamantyl, 1 amino 1 methylethyl, phenyl, 4 methyl phenyl, 4 hydroxymethyl phenyl, 4 1 hydroxy 1 methylethyl phenyl, 4 chloromethyl phenyl, 4 methoxyphenyl, 2 methoxyphenyl, 4 propenyloxyphenyl, 4 methoxycarbonylphenyl, 4 cyanophenyl, 4 fluoro phenyl, 3 hydroxyphenyl, 4 hydroxyphenyl, 4 amino phenyl 4 dimethylamino phenyl, 1 naphthyl, 2 ethoxy 1 naphthyl, 2 naphthyl, 2 furyl, 2 thienyl, 3 thienyl, 2 benzothienyl, benzyl, 2 thenyl, 3 methyl 2 imidazolyl, 2 phenyl 4 thiazolyl, N methyl 2 pyrrolyl, N benzyl 2 pyrrolyl, N methyl 2 indolyl, N methyl 3 indolyl, 3 quinolinyl, or 1 isoquinolyl. The most preferred compounds further have the X substituted carbon of the side chain in the Pharmaceutically acceptable acid addition salts include, but are not limited to, those with hydro chloric acid, sulfuric acid, nitric acid, phosphoric acid, citric acid, maleic acid, succinic acid, benzenesulfonic acid, p toluenesulfonic acid, 2 naphthalenesulfonic acid and methanesulfonic acid. Pharmaceutically acceptable cationic salts include, but are not limited to, those of sodium, potassium, calcium, N,N dibenzylethylenediamine, N methylglucamine meglumine and diethanolamine. The preferred cationic salts are those of potassium and sodium. The reference to esters which are hydrolyzable under physiological conditions refers to those esters frequently referred to as pro drugs . Such esters are now as well known and common in the penicillin art as pharmaceutically acceptable salts. Such esters are generally used to enhance oral absorption, but in any event are readily hydrolyzed The reference to an acyloxymethyl or 1 acyloxy ethyl derived from a conventional beta lactam antibiotic refers to a mixed methanediol ester of the formula I wherein R is derived from one of the standard, well known beta lactam antibiotics containing a carboxylic acid group on the carbon alpha to the beta lactam ring The present invention also encompasses a pharma ceutical composition for treating bacterial infections which comprises in a weight ratio of 10 1 to 1 3 a conventional beta lactam antibiotic and a compound of the formula I wherein R¹ is hydrogen or a radical group forming an ester which is hydrolyzable under physiological conditions. For this composition, preferred compounds of the formula I are defined above. Preferred beta lactam antibiotics are penicil lins or cephalosporins of established clinical utility, viz., amoxicillin, ampicillin, apalcillin, azlocillin, azthreonam, bacampicillin, carbenicillin, carbenicillin indanyl, carbenicillin phenyl, cefaclor, cefadroxil, cefaloram, cefamandole, cefamandole nafate, cefaparole, cefatrizine, cefazolin, cefbuperazone, cefmenoxime, cefonicid, cefodizime, cefoperazone, ceforanide, cefotaxime, cefotiam, cefoxitin, cefpimazole, cefpiramide, cefpirome, cefsulodin, ceftazidime, ceftizoxime, ceftriaxone, cefuroxime, cephacetrile, cephalexin, cephaloglycin, cephaloridine, cephalothin, cephapirin, cephradine, cyclacillin, epicillin, furazlocillin, hetacillin, lenampicillin, levopropylcillin, mecillinam, mezlocillin, penicillin G, penicillin V, phenethicillin, piperacillin, pivampicillin, sarmoxicillin, sarpicillin, suncillin, talampicillin and ticarcillin, including the pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof. The names employed for these beta lactams are generally USAN i.e., United States Adopted Names. Also preferred are combinations of the beta lactamase inhibitors of the invention with 7 D 2 4 carboxy 5 imidazolecarboxamido 2 phenylacetamido 3 4 2 sulfonatoethyl pyridinium 3 cephem 4 carboxylic acid. The present invention further encompasses a method of treating a bacterial infection in a mammal by topical, oral or parenteral administration of an antibacterially effective amount of a pharmaceutical composition of the preceding paragraphs a pharma ceutical composition comprising an antibacterially effective amount of a compound of the formula I per se, and a method of treating bacterial infections with an antibacterially effective amount of a compound of the formula I per se. Finally, the present invention encompasses intermediate compounds as follows In the compounds II and III the preferred values of R¹ are generally as those defined above for the compound I . In the compounds IV and V the preferred values are R⁷ as phenyl or thienyl, R⁸ as methyl and R⁹ as ethyl. The hydroxy substituted carbon of the side chain is preferably in the configuration The compounds of the formula I are most generally prepared by the following synthetic route In the first stage of the above synthetic route, the dibromo compound VI is dissolved in a dry, reaction inert solvent such as tetrahydrofuran, toluene, methylene chloride, or combination thereof, which will remain liquid at the reaction temperature, cooled to 50 to 100 C., and reacted with substantially one molar equivalent of a Grignard reagent such as methylmagnesium bromide in an ethereal solvent such as diethyl ether said reagent formed by standard methods in the laboratory, or purchased commercially , generally added portionwise over a 5 15 minutes while maintaining the same low reaction temperature. After stirring for 10 30 minutes to allow complete reaction and equilibration, the glyoxal As used here and hereinafter, the expression reaction inert solvent refers to any solvent which does not interact with starting materials, reagents, intermediates or products in a manner which significantly reduces the yield of the desired product. The starting dibromo compound is readily prepared from the corresponding penicillanic acid salt and allyl bromide, such as by the method exemplified in the preparation of allyl 6,6 dibromopenicillanate, specifically described below. The required glyoxals of the formula X are preferably freshly prepared or freshly purified. Their preparation is as extensively exemplified below. One general method for preparation of the required glyoxals is via the following synthetic route The C.6 stereochemistry of the intermediate of the formula III has not been specified. However, C.6 stereochemistry is set as 6 beta in the tributyltin hydride debromination step, regardless of stereo chemistry at the 6 position in compound III . This debromination step is optionally carried out in the presence of small amounts of a free radical initiator such as 2,2 azo If 1 oxide or 1,1 dioxide are desired, and sulfur is not already in the desired oxidation state, the sulfur is oxidized at this stage in the synthetic sequence. In order to avoid unduly complex mixtures when the 1 oxides sulfoxides are desired, said oxidation is preferably carried out on separated If the desired end product contains X as OCOR², acylation is also preferably carried out at this stage of the synthesis. Standard methods of acylation are employed, such as the appropriate anhydride or acetoformic acid reagent for formylation in the presence of pyridine. Likewise, propenyl groups protecting hydroxyl groups are preferably removed at this stage of the synthesis, conveniently by mild acid or HgCl₂ HgO catalyzed hydrolysis at ambient temperature. In the final stage of the synthesis of the com pounds I wherein R is hydrogen, the allyl protecting group is removed, usually with simultaneous formation and isolation of the product as a sodium or potassium salt. This transformation is conveniently carried out by reaction with substantially one molar equivalent of sodium or potassium ethylhexanoate or other lipophilic carboxylate salt in the presence of catalytic amounts of tetrakis triphenylphosphine palladium typically 5 mole and triphenylphosphine typically 20 25 mole in a reaction inert solvent, preferably one in which the reactants are soluble and the alkali metal salt of the desired product is relatively insoluble. Particu larly well suited in the present instance is the potassium salt of 2 ethylhexanoate in ethyl acetate as solvent. If the salt does not precipitate, it can be precipitated by addition of a further non solvent such as ether or alternatively extracted into water and recovered by freeze drying. Even when the product precipitates or is precipitated from the reaction mixture, it is usually taken up in water, impurities filtered or extracted away and reisolated by freeze drying. Temperature is not critical in this depro tection step, e.g., 0 50 C. is usually satisfactory. Most conveniently, ambient temperature is employed. If desired, the salt is converted to the free acid form, during or after isolation, by standard methods, e.g., acidification of an aqueous solution of the salt, with extraction of the free acid into a water immiscible organic solvent. Other pharmaceutically acceptable cationic salts of the present invention are also readily prepared by standard methods. For example, an equivalent of the corresponding cationic hydroxide, carbonate or bicarbonate or of an amine, is combined with the carboxylic acid in an organic or aqueous solvent, preferably at reduced temperature e.g., 0 5 C. , with vigorous agitation and slow addition of the base. The salt is isolated by concentration and or the addition of a non solvent. Likewise pharmaceutically acceptable acid addition salts of the present invention are readily prepared by standard methods. For example, an equivalent of the acid is combined with the free amine form of the compound in an organic or aqueous organic solvent. The salt is isolated by concentration and or the addition of a non solvent. As noted above, the salt is alternatively isolated directly from a reaction mixture, i.e., without isolation of the free amine, otherwise using similar techniques of concentration and or addition of a non solvent. When benzyl is used in place of allyl as a protecting group, or primary or secondary amino groups are protected by benzyloxycarbonyl groups, said protecting groups are removed by hydrogenolysis over a noble metal catalyst in a reaction inert solvent, using methods generally well known in the art. The preferred noble metal catalyst is palladium, most preferably palladium on a support such as carbon or diatomaceous earth. Temperature and pressure are not critical but are preferably mild e.g. 0 50 C., conveniently ambient temperature and 1 to 8 atmospheres , minimizing side reactions. Intermediate compounds of the formula II wherein R¹ contains CH₂ adjacent to the carbonyl group are preferably prepared by the following route The Grignard reaction and tributyltin hydride debrominations are carried out in the manner described above. Hydrolysis is accomplished under mild conditions. This process is most preferred when R⁷ is phenyl or thienyl. The starting aldehyde required for this synthesis is readily prepared by base catalyzed condensation of an aromatic or heterocyclic aldehyde with a 2 1 alkoxy alkoxy acetaldehyde, with concurrent dehydration The compounds of the formula I wherein R represents an Conjugate esters of the above formula I wherein R is an acylmethyl radical derived from a conventional penicillin are conveniently made from a salt preferably the tetrabutylammonium salt of the corresponding compound of the formula I wherein R is hydrogen, and the halomethyl ester preferably the iodomethyl ester of the penicillin, in protected form when the penicillin contains primary or secondary amino or carboxylic acid functionality. The preferred protecting groups are removed by facile hydrolysis, rather than hydrogenolysis, particularly when R¹ is aromatic, heteroaromatic or otherwise contains a double bond in conjugation with the side chain carbonyl group. Exemplary are enamines e.g., acetoacetate derivatives and phenyl esters. Exemplary is the preparative route for compounds of the formula II wherein R is in the form of the preferred radical of the formula A defined above. If not already in hand, the requisite ampicillin is first converted to a cationic salt. The salt can be an inorganic salt such as that of an alkali or alkaline earth metal, or an organic salt such as that of a tertiary amine or a quaternary ammonium salt. The latter type salt is preferred, the tetrabutyl ammonium salt being most preferred. The required cationic salts are readily prepared by methods standard in the art. For example, the tetrabutylammonium salt is conveniently prepared by combining equivalent amounts of the acid form of the penicillin derivative and tetrabutylammonium hydroxide in a mixture of water and a reaction inert immiscible organic solvent such as chloroform. The organic layer is separated, dried with a drying agent or azeotropically and the salt recovered by evaporation to dryness. The above salts are then reacted with at least one equivalent of a C₁ C₃ alkyl acetoacetate, conveniently methyl acetoacetate, in a reaction inert solvent at 10 70 C. It is preferred to use an excess of the acetoacetate ester, in order to facilitate complete reaction, and indeed the ester itself can serve as solvent for the reaction. In this manner, there is obtained an intermediate enamine compound of the formula The above enamine, still as the salt preferably the tetrabutylammonium salt is then reacted under typical nucleophilic displacement conditions with at least one equivalent of chloromethyl iodide. When the salt is a quaternary salt such as the tetrabutylammonium salt, the nucleophilic displacement occurs rapidly under mild conditions, e.g., at 0 50 C., conveniently at ambient temperature, in a reaction inert solvent such as acetone. Although a chloromethyl ester can be used directly in the next step, it is preferred to first convert the chloromethyl ester to the corresponding iodomethyl ester. Contact of the chloromethyl ester with sodium iodide in acetone at 0 50 until reaction is sub stantially complete represents conditions particularly well suited to this purpose. The iodomethylester is then reacted, in a reaction inert solvent at 0 50 C., with a salt of the desired compound of the formula I wherein R is hydrogen, prepared as described above. Again, the preferred salt is the tetrabutylammonium salt. Finally the above enamine esters are hydrolyzed under mildly acidic conditions in an aqueous solvent, comprising simply water or water and a water miscible or immiscible reaction inert organic solvent at 0 50 C., conveniently at ambient temperature. The two phase system of water and ethyl acetate at ambient temperature represents particularly suitable con ditions. Conveniently, one equivalent of a strong acid such as HCl or a sulfonate salt is used, and the product is isolated in the form of that acid addition salt. As indicated above, some of the compounds of the formula I , generally those wherein R is hydrogen, have Those compounds of the formula I having said As also indicated above, the compounds of the formula I are generally of sufficient antibacterial activity to be useful as systemic antibacterial agents, particularly when the sidechain is in the preferred Even more generally, the compounds of the formula I are of special value as potent inhibitors of microbial beta lactamases. By this mechanism they increase their own antibacterial effectiveness or the antibacterial effectiveness of a conventional beta lactam antibiotic penicillin or cephalosporin against many microorganisms, particularly those which produce a beta lactamase. Thus the ability of the said compounds of the formula I Cell free extracts are prepared by sonic treatment using three 30 s bursts at 4 C. except for The ability of compounds of the formula I to increase the effectiveness of a beta lactam antibiotic can be appreciated by reference to experiments in which the MIC values of the antibiotic alone, and a compound of the formula I having R as hydrogen alone, are determined. These MIC s are then compared with the MIC values obtained with a combination of the given antibiotic and the compound of the formula I , wherein R is hydrogen. When the antibacterial potency of the combination is significantly greater than would have been predicted from the potencies of the individual compounds, this is considered to constitute enhancement of activity. The MIC values of combination are measured using the method described by Barry and Sabath in Manual of Clinical Microbiology , edited by Lenette, Spaulding and Truant, 2nd Edition, 1974, American Society for Microbiology. The compounds of the formula I also generally enhance the antibacterial effectiveness of beta lactam antibiotics In determining whether a particular strain of bacteria is sensitive to a particular compound of the formula I wherein R is an acyloxymethyl group derived from a beta lactam antibiotic, it is not necessary to carry out an The ability of the compounds of formula I , wherein R is hydrogen or a When simultaneously administering a compound of formula I and a beta lactam antibiotic, it is preferred to administer a mixture of I and the beta lactam antibiotic in a single formulation. Such a pharmaceutical composition will normally comprise the beta lactam antibiotic, the compound of formula I and from about 5 to about 80 percent of a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier or diluent by weight. Said carrier or diluent is chosen on the basis of the intended mode of administration. For oral administration, tablets, capsules, lozenges, troches, powders, syrups, elixirs, aqueous solutions and suspension, and the like are used, in accordance with standard pharmaceutical practice. The proportional ratio of active ingredient to carrier will naturally depend on the chemical nature, solubility and stability of the active ingredient, as well as the dosage contemplated. In the case of tablets for oral use, carriers which are commonly used include lactose, sodium citrate and salts of phosphoric acid. Various disintegrants such as starch, and lubricating agents, such as magnesium stearate, sodium lauryl sulfate and talc, are commonly used in tablets. For oral administration in capsule form, useful diluents are lactose and high molecular weight polyethylene glycols, e.g. polyethylene glycols having molecular weights of from 2000 to 4000. When aqueous suspensions are required for oral use, the active ingredient is combined with emulsifying or suspending agents. If desired, certain sweetening and or flavoring agents can be added. For parenteral administration, which includes intramuscular, intraperitoneal, subcutaneous, and intravenous injection, sterile solutions of the active ingredient are usually prepared, and the pH of the solutions are suitably adjusted and buffered. For intravenous use, the total concentration of solutes should be controlled to render the preparation isotonic. When dosed separately, compounds of the formula I are formulated in like manner. When using the compounds of formula I in com bination with another beta lactam antibiotic, said com pounds are administered orally or parenterally, i.e., intramuscularly, subcutaneously or intraperitoneally. Although the prescribing physician will ultimately decide the dosage to be used in a human subject, the ratio of the daily dosages of the compounds of formula I and the beta lactam antibiotic will normally be in the range from about 1 10 to 3 1 by weight. Addi tionally, when using the compounds of formula I in combination with another beta lactam antibiotic, the daily oral dosage of each component will normally be in the range from about 10 to about 200 mg. per kilogram of body weight and the daily parenteral dosage of each component will normally be about 5 to about 50 mg. per kilogram of body weight. These daily doses will usually be divided. In some instances, the prescribing physician will determine that dosage outside these limits are necessary. As will be appreciated by one skilled in the art, some beta lactam compounds are effective when administered orally or parenterally, while others are effective only when administered by the parenteral route. When a compound of formula I is to be used simultaneously i.e. comingled with a beta lactam antibiotic which is effective only on parenteral administration, a combination formulation suitable for parenteral use will be required. When a compound of formula I is to be used simultaneously comingled with a beta lactam antibiotic which is effective orally or parenterally, combination suitable for either oral or parenteral administration can be prepared. Additionally, it is possible to administer preparations of the compounds of formula I orally, while at the same time administering a further beta lactam antibiotic parenterally, and it is also possible to administer preparation of the compounds of formula I parenterally, while at the same time administering the further beta lactam antibiotic orally. It is the capacity of compounds of the formula I , wherein R is an acyloxymethyl derivative of a beta lactam antibiotic, to hydrolyze and provide both the compounds of the formula I where R is hydrogen and the beta lactam antibiotic which enhances the activity and broadens the antibacterial spectrum of these compounds relative to the use of an equivalent amount of beta lactam antibiotic alone. When using one of the present antibacterial compounds of the formula I alone for control of bacterial infections in a mammal, particularly man, the compound is administered alone, or mixed with pharmaceutically acceptable carriers or diluents, in the manner described above. When using the more active compounds of the formula I alone to control bacterial infections, the daily dosage will be similar to those of other clinically useful beta lactam antibiotics. Although the prescribing physician will ultimately decide the dosage to be used in a human subject, these compounds will normally be used orally at dosages in the range from about 20 to about 100 mg. per kilogram of body weight per day, and parenterally at dosages from about 10 to about 100 mg. per kilogram of body weight per day, usually in divided doses. In some instances, the prescribing physician will determine that dosages outside these limits are needed. The present invention is illustrated by the following examples. However, it should be understood that the invention is not limited to the specific details of these examples. Abbreviations are used as follows THF for tetrahydrofuran AIBN for azo Under N₂, allyl 6,6 dibromopenicillanate 23.4 g., 0.059 mol was dissolved in 200 ml. THF and cooled to 78 . By syringe, methylmagnesium bromide 19 ml. of 3.1M in ether, 0.059 mol was added over 10 minutes, maintaining the 78 temperature as the mixture was stirred for an additional 15 minutes. Meanwhile, freshly prepared phenylglyoxal 9 g., 0.067 mol was separately dissolved in 100 ml. THF and cooled to 78 . The cold Grignard solution was transferred to the glyoxal solution via cannula over 10 15 minutes and the mixture stirred 30 minutes at 78 . To quench, the reaction, it was poured into an equal volume of saturated NH₄Cl and extracted 3 x 500 ml. ether. The ether extracts were combined, washed with 500 ml. H₂O and then 500 ml. brine, dried, and evaporated to an oil 28 g. which was flash chromatographed on 700 g. of silica gel using 1 1 ether hexane as eluant and monitoring by tlc. Product fractions were combined and evaporated to yield title product as an oil, 12.0 g. 45 tlc Rf 0.6 1 1 ethyl acetate hexane , 0.4 1 2 ethyl acetate hexane . It is understood that this product is a mixture of According to the method of Example A1, except to use ethyl acetate in place of ether for extraction, benzyl 6,6 dibromopenicillanate 8.35 g., 0.021 mol and phenylglyoxal 3.0 g., 0.024 mol were converted to title product which was purified by flash chromatography on a shallow bed of silica gel using 4 1 hexane ethyl acetate as eluant to yield 1.8 g. tlc Rf 0.5 2 1 hexane ethyl acetate understood to be a 2 1 mixture of According to the method of Example A1, except to use ethyl acetate in place of ether for extraction from the NH₄Cl quench, allyl 6,6 dibromopenicillanate 2.7 g., 0.0069 mol and methyl glyoxal 0.5 g., 0.0069 mol were converted to crude title product as an oil 2.6 g. which was flash chromatographed on silica gel with 3 1 hexane ethyl acetate as eluant and monitoring by tlc to provide title product in two isomeric forms less polar lp , the sidechain According to the method of the preceding Example, except to use 2 1 hexane ethyl acetate as eluant, allyl, 6,6 dibromopenicillanate 10.0 g., 0.025 mol and freshly prepared 2 furylglyoxal 3.5 g., 0.028 mol were converted to instant title product as a mixture of diastereoisomers, 60 mg. tlc Rf 0.5 1 1 ethyl acetate hexane ¹H nmr 1.42 s, 3H , 1.63 s, 3H , 4.49 and 4.52 2s, 1H , 4.68 m, 3H , 5.36 m, 3H , 5.89 d, 1H , 5.92 m, 1H , 6.59 m, 1H , 7.41 m, 1H , 7.63 m, 1H ir CDCl₃ cm ¹ 3500 b , 2940 w , 1795 s , 1750 s , 1680 s , 1575 w , 1470 m , 1380 m , 1310 m , 1090 m , 1035 m . Except that 4 methoxyphenylglyoxal monohydrate 6.5 g. in THF was rendered anhydrous by stirring for 3 hours with 20 g. of 3A type molecular sieves at ambient temperature prior to treatment with the Grignard solution, and to use ethyl acetate in place of ether for extraction of the quenched reaction mixture, the method of Example A1 was employed to convert allyl 6,6 dibromopenicillanate 20 g. to crude title product, 17.2 g., as an oil. A portion 10 g. was flash chromatographed on 400 g. of silica gel, using 1 1 ether hexane as eluant to yield title product as a mixture of diastereoisomers, 1.57 g., ¹H nmr 1.41 and 1.45 2s, 3H , 1.61 and 1.62 2s, 3H , 3.85 m, 5H , 4.38 and 4.55 2s, 1H , 4.65 m, 2H , 5.35 m, 2H , 5.55 and 5.82 2s, 1H , 5.91 m, 1H , 6.97 and 8.01 2m, 4H . Using 4A type molecular sieve in the method of the preceding Example, freshly distilled 2 thienyl glyoxal 1.9 g., 0.0136 mol and allyl 6,6 dibromopenicillanate 5.2 g., 0.013 mol were converted to crude title products 4 g. , flash chromatographed on silica gel with 2 1 hexane ethyl acetate as eluant to yield title products as a mixture of diastereoisomers as an oil, 1.3 g. tlc Rf 0.7 1 1 ethyl acetate hexane ¹H nmr 1.45 and 1.46 2s, 3H , 1.62 s, 3H , 4.44 and 4.52 2s, 1H , 4.45 b, 1H , 4.5 4.7 m, 2H , 5.24 5.50 m, 2H , 5.6 and 5.84 2s, 1H , 5.90 m, 1H , 7.18 m, 1H , 7.80 m, 1H , 7.9 m, 1H ir CHCl₃ cm ¹ 3500 b , 2995 w , 1795 s , 1750 s , 1670 s , 1610 w , 1410 m , 1360 m , 1275 s , 1050 m . This preparation was repeated using 6.0 g. 0.042 mol of 2 thienyl glyoxal and 16 g. 0.04 mol of allyl 6,6 dibromopenicillanate to yield crude title products 16 g. which was more carefully chromatographed using 3 2 ether hexane as eluant to yield Mixed epimers, 1.5 g. By the procedure of Example A2, 1 naphthyl glyoxal 4.25 g., 0.023 mol and allyl 6,6 dibromo penicillanate 9.21 g., 0.023 mol were converted to instant title product, initially isolated as a dry foam which was chromatographed on 400 g. of silica gel with 1 1 ether hexane as eluant to produce purified title product as a mixture of isomers, 5.38 g. tlc Rf 0.3 1 1 hexane ether ¹H nmr 1.33, 1.41 and 1.51 3s, 6H , 4.40 and 4.49 2s, 1H , 4.65 m, 3H , 5.55 m, 2H , 5.46 and 5.85 2s, 1H , 5.95 m, 1H , 7.40 8.78 m, 7H . With stirring under N₂, allyl 6,6 dibromopenicil lanate 4.25 g., 0.0106 mol was dissolved in 100 ml. toluene and cooled to 78 . Methylmagnesium bromide 34.1 ml. of 3.1M in ether, 0.106 mol was added as in Example A1. 2 1 Ethoxy ethoxy 3 phenylpropenal 2.13 g., 0.0097 mol in 10 ml. toluene was added dropwise and stirring continued at 78 for 1.5 hours. The mixture was poured into excess NH₄Cl, diluted with 200 ml. ether, and the layers separated. The aqueous layer was extracted 2 x 100 ml. fresh ether. The three organic layers were combined, washed with 100 ml. saturated NaHCO₃, dried over MgSO₄ and stripped to yield title product as an oil, 5.95 g. tlc Rfs 0.32 and 0.38 1 1 ether hexane . The product is essentially sidechain By the method of the preceding Example, allyl 6,6 dibromopenicillanate 2.06 g., 0.0052 mol and 2 1 ethoxy 3 2 thienyl propenal 1.17 g., 0.0052 mol were converted to instant title product as an oil, 3.1 g., essentially all sidechain 4 Dimethylaminophenyl glyoxal monohydrate 3.5 g., 0.018 mol , prepared according to Preparation 22 below, was dissolved in 150 ml. benzene and refluxed for 18 hours employing a Dean Stark trap to remove water , stripped to solids, taken up in 50 ml. dry THF, further dried over molecular sieves, and filtered to yield anhydrous 4 dimethylaminophenyl glyoxal, 0.18 mol, in 50 ml. THF. The latter was reacted with allyl 6,6 dibromopenicillanate 7.82 g., 0.019 mol and methylmagnesium bromide according to the method of Example A2 to yield chromatographed title product as mixture of diastereoisomers Allyl 6,6 dibromopenicillanate 13.0 g., 0.0326 mol , methylmagnesium bromide 12.34 ml. of 2.9M in ether, 0.0358 mol and 4 fluorophenyl glyoxal 4.95 g., 0.0326 mol were reacted in THF according to the method of Example A1. The reaction was quenched with 4 ml. of acetic acid in 40 ml. THF, warmed to ambient temperature, stripped of THF, diluted with 300 ml. toluene, washed with 200 ml. water, layered with 200 ml. of fresh water and the pH adjusted to 8.0 with dilute NaOH. The organic layer was separated, washed 1 x 200 ml. brine, dried, and the resulting solution of title product, a mixture of diastereoisomers, utilized directly in the next step tlc Rf 0.4 9 1 toluene ether . Using 3 2 hexane ether as eluant, but otherwise by the method of Example A2, allyl 6,6 dibromopenicillanate 5.83 g., 0.015 mol , methylmagnesium bromide 4.48 ml. of 3.1 in ether, 0.015 mol and freshly distilled 4 propenyloxy phenyl glyoxal 2.78 g., 0.015 mol were converted to instant title products 7.78 g. initially isolated as a mixture of isomers without chromatography ¹H nmr 1.46 and 1.52 2s, 3H , 1.68 s, 3H , 1.75 dd, 3H , 4.45 and 4.61 2s, 1H , 4.73 m, 2H , 5.15 m, 1H , 5.3 5.8 m, 1H , 5.60 and 5.90 2s, 1H , 6.0 m, 1H , 6.51 m, 1H , 7.15 m, 2H , 8.1 m, 2H . On chromatography these were separated into a Under N₂, allyl 6,6 dibromopenicillanate 9.10 g., 0.0228 mol was dissolved in 100 ml. dry toluene and cooled to 78 . CH₃MgBr 7.35 ml. of 3.10M in ether, 0.0228 mol was added via syringe over 15 minutes, followed after 12 minutes by 3 thienyl glyoxal freshly distilled, 3.20 g., 0.0228 mol in 15 ml. toluene over 10 minutes, while maintaining temperature with an acetone dry ice bath. After a further 45 minutes at 78 , the reaction was poured into 200 ml. saturated NH₄Cl and extracted 3 x 150 ml. ether. The combined organic layers were washed 2 x 100 ml. H₂O and the 1 x 200 ml. brine, dried over Na₂SO₄ and stripped to an oil 11.5 g. . The desired According to the preceding Example, allyl 6,6 dibromopenicillanate 5.90 g., 0.015 mol and 1 methyl 2 pyrrolyl glyoxal 2.03 g., 0.015 mol were reacted to form title product. After reacting 1 hour at 78 , the acetic acid 1.26 ml., 0.023 mol in 10 ml. THF was added and the mixture warmed to ambient temperature, diluted with equal volumes each of toluene and water, the pH adjusted to 8.5 with dilute NaOH, and the aqueous phase separated and washed with 40 ml. fresh toluene. The organic layers were combined, washed 1 x 40 ml. brine, dried over Na₂SO₄ and stripped to yield title product as mixed By the method of Example A14, allyl 6,6 dibromo penicillanate 12.8 g., 0.0321 mol and 1 benzyl 2 pyrrolyl glyoxal 6.84 g., 0.0321 mol were converted to instant title product, isolated as a solution in 400 ml. of toluene, used directly in the next step Example B18 tlc Rf 0.85 9 1 toluene ethyl acetate . By the procedure of Example A13, allyl 6,6 di bromopenicillanate 12.2 g., 0.031 mol and 2 methoxy phenyl glyoxal 5.00 g., 0.031 mol were converted, without chromatography, to title product as an isomer mixture, 15.3 g. oil tlc Rf 0.16 3 2 hexane ethyl acetate . By the method of Example A1, allyl 6,6 dibromo penicillanate 15.96 g., 0.04 mol and The method of the preceding Example was used to react allyl 6,6 dibromopenicillanate 22.38 g., 0.056 mol with N methyl 2 indolyl glyoxal 10.5 g., 0.056 mol . After quenching with CH₃COOH and warming to 0 , the mixture was poured into 200 ml. each of H₂O and ethyl acetate, and the pH adjusted to 3.0. The aqueous phase was separated and extracted with fresh ethyl acetate. The organic layers were combined, extracted with 1 x 200 ml. H₂O, 1 x 200 ml. H₂O with the pH adjusted to 8.5, 1 x 200 ml. H₂O and 1 x 200 ml. brine, dried and stripped to yield title product as an oil, all of which was used in the next step Example B21 . By the method of Example A17, allyl 6,6 dibromo penicillanate 0.52 g., 0.0013 mol and 1 methyl 2 imidazolyl glyoxal 0.18 g., 0.0013 mol were converted to a toluene solution of title product tlc Rf 0.9 1 1 CH₂Cl₂ ethyl acetate . The entire solution was used in the next step Example B22 . By the method of Example A14 allyl 6,6 dibromo penicillanate 8.39 g., 0.021 mol and 2 benzo thienyl glyoxal 4.0 g., 0.021 mol were converted to present title product. After about 30 minutes at 78 , the reaction mixture was quenched by pouring into 250 ml. saturated NH₄Cl. The aqueous layer was extracted 3 x 200 ml. ether. The organic layers were combined, washed 1 x 200 ml. H₂O and 1 x 200 ml. brine, dried and stripped to produce title product as 12 g. of oil, still containing toluene, all of which was used directly in the next step Example B23 tlc Rf 0.32 and 0.41 2 1 hexane ethyl acetate , reflecting side chain epimers. By the methods of the preceding Example, allyl 6,6 dibromopenicillanate 7.35 g., 0.018 mol and 2 phenyl 4 thiazolyl glyoxal 4.0 g., 0.018 mol were converted to present title product, 10.6 g., all of which was used directly in the next step Example B24 tlc 3 1 hexane showed three products having Rf values 0.30, 0.24 and 0.18, the heaviest at Rf 0.24. 4 Methylphenyl glyoxal hydrate 3.5 g. was distilled in a Kugelrohr apparatus 105 , 0.75 mm to yield 2.0 g. 0.0135 mol of 4 methylphenyl glyoxal which was immediately dissolved in 25 ml. of toluene and reacted with allyl 6,6 dibromopenicillanate 5.38 g., 0.0135 mol concurrently converted to the Grignard according to Example A14. After 1.5 hours at 78 , the reaction was quenched and product isolated according to Example A20 to yield crude title product as an oil, tlc Rf 0.27 and 0.32 4 1 hexane ethyl acetate , reflecting side chain epimers. By the methods of preceding Example distilling 6 g. of 4 methoxycarbonylphenyl glyoxal from 7 g. of the hydrate at 115 1 mm , allyl 6,6 dibromopenicillanate 12 g., 0.03 mol was converted to present title product, ultimately concentrated to 200 ml. of a toluene solution used directly in the next step Example B26 tlc showed three products at Rf values 0.43, 0.35 and 0.29 2 1 hexane ethyl acetate . By the method of Example A22 distilling 6 g. of 4 cyanocarbonylphenyl glyoxal from 7 g. of the hydrate , allyl 6,6 dibromopenicillanate 14.7 g., 0.037 mol was converted to present title product, isolated as an oil, 15.8 g. tlc Rf 0.24, 0.30, 0.35 2 1 hexane ethyl acetate . By the method of Example A22, freshly distilled 1 benzyloxy 1 methylethyl glyoxal 1.5 g., 6.9 mmol and allyl 6,6 dibromopenicllanate 2.75 g., 6.9 mmol were converted to present title product, 3.0 g. tlc Rf 0.30, 0.40 and 0.49 3 1 hexane ethyl acetate . By the method of the preceding Example, 1 methylcyclohexyl glyoxal 12 g., 0.03 mol was converted to present title product, 12 g. tlc Rf 0.39 and 0.43 4 1 hexane ethyl acetate . By the method of Example A28 below, 1 adamantyl glyoxal 3.0 g., 0.021 mol was converted to title product as a foam, 10.7 g. tlc Rf 0.26 4 1 hexane ethyl acetate . Allyl 6,6 dibromopenicillanate 10.0 g., 0.025 mol was dissolved in 200 ml. CH₂Cl₂ and cooled to 78 . Keeping the temperature below 70 , methyl magnesium bromide 8.37 ml. of 3M in ether, 0.025 mol was added slowly, and the mixture stirred 1 hour at 75 . 4 t Butyldimethylsiloxymethylphenyl glyoxal freshly distilled from 7 g. of hydrate, in 75 ml. CH₂Cl₂ was then added slowly and the mixture stirred a further 1.5 hours at 75 , poured into an equal volume of saturated NH₄Cl. The aqueous layer was separated and extracted 3 x 100 ml. CH₂Cl₂. The four organic layers were combined, washed 1 x 200 ml. H₂O and 2 x 200 ml. brine, dried over MgSO₄ and stripped to yield title product as an oil, 12.4 g., tlc Rf 0.45 and 0.49 2 1 hexane ethyl acetate . By the method of the preceding Example 4 1 hydroxy 1 methylethyl phenyl glyoxal 1.0 g., 5.2 mmol was converted to present title product as an oil, 2.6 g. tlc Rf 0.26, 0.30 1 1 hexane ethyl acetate . By the method of Example A28, 4 chloromethyl phenyl glyoxal 4.0 g., 0.022 mol was converted to present title product, initially as an oil, 9.7 g., which was chromatographed on silica gel using 7 4 hexane ethyl acetate as eluant to yield three isomers as follows 0.49 g., tlc Rf 0.51 1 1 hexane ethyl acetate 0.61 g., tlc Rf 0.42 1 1 hexane ethyl acetate and 0.64 g., tlc Rf 0.37 1 1 hexane ethyl acetate , the least polar isomer having By the method of Example A18, N methyl 3 indolyl glyoxal 8.0 g., 0.043 mol was converted to title product, isolated as an oil in like manner, all of which was used in the next step Example B34 tlc Rf 0.05, 0.15 9 1 toluene ethyl acetate . By the method of Example A8, 1 benzyloxy carbonylamino 1 methylethyl glyoxal 4.41 g., 0.018 mol was converted to present title product isolated as an oil, 9.48 g. tlc Rf 0.42 2 3 ethyl acetate hexane . By the method of Example A13, except to use 1 19 acetone CHCl₃ as eluant on chromatography, 4 benzyl oxycarbonylamino phenyl glyoxal 5.0 g., 0.0176 mol was converted to title product, isolated as a mixture of isomers, 3.43 g. tlc Rf 0.28, 0.35 1 19 acetone CHCl₃ . By the method of Example A8, 2 ethoxy 1 naphthyl glyoxal 4.50 g., 1.97 mmol was converted to present title product as a thick oil, 11.02 g. tlc Rf 0.35, 0.50 2 1 hexane ethyl acetate all of which was used in the next step Example B37 . By the method of Example A2, using 1 1 hexane ethyl acetate as eluant, 3 hydroxyphenyl glyoxal 3.0 g., 0.019 mol was converted to chromatographed title product, 0.59 g. ¹H nmr 1.35 s, 3H , 1.52 s, 3H , 4.50 m, 3H , 5.20 m, 3H , 5.44 m, 2H , 5.71 m, 1H , 6.95 d, 1H, J 4Hz , 7.13 t, 1H, J 4Hz , 7.28 m, 2H , 7.63 br s, 1H . By the method of Example A8, chromatographing the crude product using 1 1 hexane ethyl acetate as eluant, 3 quinolyl glyoxal freshly dehydrated from 1.4 g. of the hydrate solubilized in toluene by the addition of one half volume of THF was converted to present title product, 0.25 g. tlc Rf 0.3 1 1 hexane ethyl acetate . By the method of the preceding Example, using 2 1 hexane ethyl acetate as eluant on chromatography, 4 hydroxyphenyl glyoxal 0.22 g. freshly distilled from 1.5 g. of the hydrate was converted to present title product, 0.16 g. tlc Rf 1 1 hexane ethyl acetate ¹H nmr 1.49 s, 3H , 1.64 s, 3H , 4.54 s, 1H , 4.72 m, 1H , 5.40 m, 4H , 5.59 s, 1H , 5.81 s, 1H , 5.92 m, 1H , 6.87 d, 2H, J 6Hz , 7.87 d, 2H, J 6Hz . By the method of Example A8, 2 naphthyl glyoxal 3.3 g., 0.02 mol was converted to crude title product, 11.6 g., which was chromatographed on silica gel to yield a mixture of 6 alpha bromo and 6 beta bromo isomers have Title product of Example A1 6.0 g., 0.0132 mol in 100 ml. of benzene was dried and filtered into a flask. Under N₂, tributyltin hydride 3.6 ml. 0.0132 mol was added and the mixture heated to reflux for 1.75 hours, monitoring by tlc. More of the hydride 1.8 ml., 0.0066 mol was added and reflux continued an additional hour, by which time tlc indicated some starting material still present. AIBN 10 mg. was then added and reflux continued 1 hour. The mixture was cooled and stripped, the residue taken up in 100 ml. CH₃CN and washed 3 x 100 ml. hexane, and the CH₃CN stripped to yield a crude mixture of the title products as an oil 6.0 g. . Title products were separated and purified by chromatography on 600 g. fine mesh silica gel, eluting with 1 1 ether hexane. The more polar mp component is the A center cut 0.64 g. consisting of a mixture of these two isomers, suitable for recycling, was also obtained from the present chromatography. By the method of the preceding Example, except to use 2 1 hexane ethyl acetate in silica gel chroma tography, title product of Example A2 0.65 g., 0.0013 mol was converted to present title products, resulting in less polar Less polar More polar Title product of Example A4 1.3 g., 0.0030 mol in 30 ml. benzene was treated with tributyltin hydride 1.58 ml., 1.71 g., 0.0059 mol . After refluxing 2 hours, a like quantity of tributyltin hydride and 5 mg. AIBN were added and refluxing continued 5 hours more. The reaction mixture was evaporated, taken into 10 ml. acetonitrile, washed 3 x 5 ml. hexane, reevaporated and flash chromatographed using 2 1 hexane ethyl acetate as eluant to yield title products Mixed epimers, 90 mg. Title product of Example A5 1.57 g., 0.00324 mol in 30 ml. benzene was refluxed with tributyltin hydride 1.414 ml., 0.0049 mol for 4 hours. The reaction mixture was cooled, diluted with acetonitrile 50 ml. , extracted 4 35 ml. hexane and evaporated to an oil 1.21 g. which was chromatographed according to the preceding Example to yield title products as follows This procedure was repeated on 1.5 g. of title product of Example A4, except to use 1 1 ether hexane as eluant on chromatography, to yield 248 mg. of lp By the procedure of Example B5, the By the procedure of Example B5, the By the method of Example B4, using 2 5 hexane ethyl acetate as eluant, title product of Example A7 5.30 g., 0.011 mol was converted to title products, yielding Mixed title isomers, 1.17 g., suitable for further chromatographic separation tlc Rf 0.18 and 0.25 2 5 hexane ethyl acetate Pure title Title product of Example A8 5.95 g., 0.011 mole , tributyltin hydride 4.4 ml., 4.8 g., 0.0165 mol and AIBN 20 mg. were combined in 80 ml. benzene and refluxed 18 hours. The mixture was cooled, diluted with 200 ml. hexane and 200 ml. acetonitrile and the layers separated. The acetonitrile layer was washed 4 x 100 ml. fresh hexane and stripped to an oil 4.77 g. which was chromatographed on 475 g. silica gel with 1 1 hexane ether as eluant to yield a mixture of title products, 800 mg. These isomers were unnecessarily separated on 80 g. of fresh silica gel using 1 3 acetone CHCl₃ as eluant to yield separated title products, each of unspecified stereochemistry in the 1 ethoxy ethoxy sidechain By the method of the preceding Example, title product of Example A9 3.1 g., 0.0057 mol was converted to present chromatographed title product as an oil, 0.77 g., a mixture of 1 ethoxy ethoxy sidechain epimers tlc Rfs 0.15 and 0.2 1 1 ether hexane ¹H nmr 1.23 t, 3H , 1.44 s, 3H , 1.46 d, 3H , 1.70 s, 3H , 3.91 m, 3H , 4.09 dd, 1H , 4.50 s, 1H , 4.73 m, 3H , 5.49 m, 4H , 6.01 m, 1H , 6.34 s, 1H , 7.06 m, 2H , 7.34 m, 1H . Using a reaction time of 6 hours at reflux and 48 hours at ambient temperature, and 1 1 ether hexane as eluant, the method of Example B10 was employed to convert title product of Example A10 2.15 g., 0.0040 mol to present title products To the entire product toluene solution of Example A11 0.0326 mol, assuming quantitative conversion was treated wth tributyltin hydride 12 ml., 0.037 mol and the mixture stirred for 60 hours, then refluxed 2 hours. The reaction mixture was cooled, stripped of solvent and the residue flash chromatographed on silica gel initially with CH₂Cl₂ to remove tin derivatives and then with 8 1 CH₂Cl₂ ethyl acetate. The latter eluant was stripped to yield 9.19 g. crude product which was chromatographed on 650 g. silica gel, using 9 1 toluene ethyl acetate as eluant, to yield a mixture of title epimers containing the lp The mixed epimers were twice chromatographed, once with 3 2 ether toluene as eluant, once with 10 2 toluene ethyl acetate as eluant to yield purified Using a reflux time of 18 hours and 3 2 ether hexane as eluant the more polar Using a reflux time of 18 hours, less polar Title product of Example A13 6.0 g., 0.013 mol in 100 ml. benzene was treated with tributyltin hydride 10.5 ml. 11.4 g., 0.039 mol and refluxed 8 hours, at which time tlc 2 1 hexane ethyl acetate indicated heavy product Rf 0.26 and medium light starting material Rf 0.35 . Additional tributyltin hydride 1.5 ml. and about 10 mg. of AIBN were added and the mixture refluxed an additional 2 hours by which time tlc indicated no starting material. The reaction mixture was stripped, taken up in 250 ml. CH₃CN, washed 3 x 100 ml. hexane, restripped to an oil and crystallized by stirring the residue with ether, 1.50 g. mp 94 96 ¹H nmr CDCl₃ delta 300 MHz 1.5 s, 3H , 1.7 s, 3H , 3.5 d, 1H , 4.0 q, 1H , 4.5 s, 1H , 4.7 d, 2H , 5.3 q, 1H , 5.3 5.45 dd, 2H , 5.6 d, 2H , 5.9 6.0 multiplet, 1H , 7.4 q, 1H , 7.7 d, 1H , 8.5 d, 1H . The entire batch of product of Example A14 0.015 mol assumed was reacted with tributyltin hydride 5.17 ml., 0.019 mol in 100 ml. toluene for 3.5 days. The solvent was stripped and the residue chromatographed on 600 g. silica gel, initially using CH₂Cl₂ and then 11 1 CH₂Cl₂ ethyl acetate as eluant, separating title To the entire product of Example A15 in 400 ml. of toluene was added tributyltin hydride 10 ml. . After stirring overnight, additional hydride 1 ml. was added and the mixture refluxed 2 hours, cooled, strip ped and triturated with pentane to yield 12.5 g. of crude product. The pentane triturate was stripped and chromatographed on silica gel, eluting tributyl tin residues with CH₂Cl₂ and then an additional 3.0 g. crude product with 10 1 CH₂Cl₂ ethyl acetate. The combined crude products 15.5 g. were chromatographed on silica gel. A less polar impurity and then The entire product of Example A16 0.031 mol assumed , tributyltin hydride 24.6 ml., 26.6 g., 0.092 mol and about 100 mg. of AIBN were combined in 225 ml. benzene, refluxed 16 hours, stripped to an oil, diluted with 500 ml. CH₃CN, washed 4 x 200 ml. hexane, restripped to an oil and chromatographed on silica gel 8 cm. diameter x 30 cm. depth with 3 1 ether hexane as eluant collecting 75 ml. fractions. Fractions 21 27 were combined and stripped to yield The entire batch of title product of Example A17 0.04 mol assumed as a toluene solution was stirred as tributyltin hydride 20 ml., 0.074 mol was added. After stirring 16 hours, the mixture was refluxed for 5 hours, then cooled, stripped, the residue taken up in 20 ml. CHCl₃ and chromatographed on 1 kg. silica gel using 9 1 CH₂Cl₂ ethyl acetate as eluant, monitoring by tlc, to recover 2.61 g. of less polar Except to use a reaction time of 1 hour at reflux, the entire batch of title product of Example A18 0.056 mol assumed was debrominated and purified according to the preceding Example to yield a less polar fraction containing By the method of Example B20, using a reaction time of 1 hour at 100 , 4 3 CH₂Cl₂ ethyl acetate as eluant in chromatography, and recovering only the more polar product fraction, the entire batch of toluene solution product of Example A19 0.0013 mol assumed was converted to present title product, 39 mg. tlc Rf 0.5 1 1 CH₂Cl₂ ethyl acetate ¹H nmr 300 MHz 1.49 s, 3H , 1.66 s, 3H , 3.99 s, 3H , 4.03 dd, 1H, J 4.8, 9.0 , 4.50 s, 1H , 4.63 m, 2H , 5.31 m, 3H , 5.61 d, 1H, J 4.8 , 5.90 m, 1H , 7.07 s, 1H , 7.15 s, 1H . By the method of Example B1, using 3 1 hexane ethyl acetate as eluant on chromatography and recover ing only the more polar product fraction, the entire toluene containing product of Example A20 0.021 mol presumed as converted to present title product, 0.92 g. tlc Rf 0.12 3 1 hexane ethyl acetate ¹H nmr 300 MHz 1.45 s, 3H , 1.7 s, 3H , 3.65 br s, 1H , 4.1 q, 1H , 4.5 s, 1H , 4.65 d, 2H , 5.3 5.45 m, 3H , 5.6 d, 1H , 5.85 6.0 m, 1H , 7.4 7.55 m, 2H , 7.9 8.0 dd, 2H , 8.4 s, 1H . The entire batch of product from Example A21 0.018 mol presumed was reacted and product isolated according to Example B10, except to use a reflux time of 3 hours, to use 2 1 hexane ethyl acetate as eluant on chromatography and to recover mainly the desired Except to use a reaction time of 4 hours at 80 , 3 1 hexane ethyl acetate as eluant on chromatography, and to recover only of the predominant, more polar The entire batch of title product of Example A23 0.026 mol assumed as a solution in 200 ml. of toluene was reacted and isolated according to Example B24. 5 2 Hexane ethyl acetate was employed as eluant on the initial chromatography, and 5 4 ether hexane for the second chromatography to obtain purified, more polar, more abundant title product, 0.39 g. tlc Rf 0.16 2 1 hexane ethyl acetate . The entire batch of product from Example A24 15.8 g., 0.033 mol assumed was reacted and crude product isolated according to Example B24. Following initial chromatography with 3 1 hexane ethyl acetate as eluant, the concentrate of title product containing about 1 part in 6 of the By the method of Example B24, except to use toluene as solvent, the entire batch of product from Example A25 3.0 g., 5.7 mmol was converted to present title product, using 3 1 hexane ethyl acetate as eluant on chromatography to produce purified title product as an oil, 1.2 g. tlc Rf 0.23 3 1 hexane ethyl acetate . ¹H NMR CDCl₃ delta ppm 1.45 s, 3H , 1.5 s, 3H , 1.55 s, 3H , 1.65 s, 3H , 3.8 br d, 1H, OH , 3.9 q, 1H , 4.45 s, 1H , 4.55 s, 2H , 4.65 d, 2H , 5.1 q, 1H , 5.25 5.4 dd, 2H , 5.45 d, 1H , 5.8 6.0 m, 1H , 7.3 7.4 m, 5H . By the method of the preceding Example, the entire batch of product from Example A26 12 g., 0.025 mol was converted to present title product, initially chromatographed with 5 1 hexane ethyl acetate as eluant and rechromatographed with 32 1 CH₂Cl₂ acetone as eluant to yield less polar By the method of Example B28, the product of Example A27 10.7 g., 0.021 mol was converted to present title product, chromatographed with 7 1 hexane ethyl acetate as eluant and triturating the resulting white solids with hexane to remove a small portion of the less desired, less polar By the method of Example B28, the product of Example A28 12 g., 0.020 mol was converted to present title product, chromatographing with 4 1 hexane ethyl acetate as eluant to yield less polar By the method of Example B28, using 4 5 hexane ethyl acetate as eluant, the product of Example A29 2.6 g., 5.2 mmol was converted to present title product, the more polar By the method of Example B28, using 5 2 hexane ethyl acetate as eluant on chromatography, the second isomer to elute in the chromatographic separation of Example A30 0.61 g., 1.21 mmol was converted to present title product, 0.13 g. tlc Rf 0.24 5 2 hexane ethyl acetate , 0.29 1 1 hexane ethyl acetate . Obtained as a by product was the corresponding dechlor inated material, allyl 6 beta In like manner, the most polar isomer of Example A30 was converted to present title product, and the least polar isomer was converted to the corresponding 6 beta The entire product from Example A31 0.043 mol assumed was taken up in 100 ml. toluene, tributyltin hydride 17.35 ml., 0.0645 mol added, the mixture refluxed 1 hour, stripped to an oil 14.7 g. which was chromatographed using 7 1 CH₂Cl₂ ethyl acetate as eluant. Fractions containing the less polar isomer were combined and rechromatographed to yield title By the method of Example B28, using 3 2 hexane ethyl acetate as eluant on chromatography, the product of Example A32 4.58 g., 8.2 mmol was con verted to present title product, 0.91 g. ¹H nmr 1.43 s, 3H , 1.50 s, 3H , 1.51 s, 3H , 1.60 s, 3H , 3.62 d, 1H, 4Hz , 3.89 dd, 1H, J 4Hz, 4Hz , 4.40 s, 1H , 4.62 d, 2H, 4Hz , 4.93 m, 1H , 5.06 s, 2H , 5.22 5.48 m, 4H , 5.89 m, 1H , 7.30 s, 5H . By the method of Example B28, using 1 7 ethyl acetate CHCl₃ as eluant on chromatography, the product of Example A33 2.81 g., 4.65 mmol was converted to present, less polar, By the method of Example B28, using 1 9 ethyl acetate CHCl₃ as eluant, entire product of Example A34 11.0 g., 0.02 mol was converted to present title product, 2.82 ¹H nmr 1.27 s, 3H , 1.40 t, 3H, J 4Hz , 1.59 s, 3H , 3.76 d, 1H, J 4Hz , 3.80 dd, 1H, J 4Hz, 4Hz , 4.19 q, 2H, J 4Hz , 4.39 s, 1H , 4.52 d, 2H, J 4Hz , 4.89 d, 1H, J 3Hz , 5.26 m, 4Hz , 5.80 m, 1H , 7.19 d, 1H, J 8Hz , 7.32 t, 1H, J 4Hz , 7.43 t, 1H, J 4Hz , 7.57 d, 1H, J 4Hz , 7.73 d, 1H, J 4Hz , 7.87 d, 1H, J 6Hz . By the method of Example B28, using 1 1 ethyl acetate hexane as eluant, the product of Example A35 0.59 g., 1.25 mmol was converted to present title product, 0.14 g. oil ¹H nmr 1.39 s, 3H , 1.59 s, 3H , 3.94 dd, 1H, J 4Hz, 4Hz , 4.38 s, 1H , 4.57 d, 2H, J 4Hz , 5.25 m, 3H , 5.45 d, 1H, J 4Hz , 5.81 m, 1H , 6.98 d, 2H, J 4Hz , 7.21 m, 2H , 7.39 s, 2H . By the method of Example B10, using a reaction time of 6 hours at 55 and recovering only the prefer red By the method of Example B28, without chroma tography, the product of Example A37 0.16 g., 0.34 mmol was converted to present title product, 0.11 g. tlc Rf 0.25 1 1 ethyl acetate hexane ¹H nmr 1.47 s, 3H , 1.70 s, 3H , 4.04 dd, 1H, J 4 and 5Hz , 4.50 s, 1H , 4.69 d, 3H, J 4Hz , 5.38 m, 4H , 5.57 d, 1H, J 4Hz , 5.95 m, 1H , 6.80 br d, 2H , 7.94 d, 2H, J 8Hz . By the method of Example B10, without chromatography, the purified product of Example A38 2.11 g., 4.2 mmol was converted to present title product, 1.08 g., tlc Rf 0.31 2 1 hexane ethyl acetate , ¹H nmr 1.46 s, 3H , 1.71 s, 3H , 3.74 d, 1H, J 6Hz , 4.1 dd, 1H, J 4Hz, 4Hz , 4.50 s, 1H , 4.66 d, 1H, J 6Hz , 5.34 m, 2H , 5.60 m, 2H , 5.94 m, 1H , 7.60 m, 2H , 7.97 m, 4H , 8.64 s, 1H . At 0 , the major, more polar At 0 , By the method of the preceding Example, The major, more polar To the minor, less polar Title product of Example C1 100 mg., 0.00024 mol was dissolved in 5 ml. ethyl acetate. Tetrakis tri phenylphosphine palladium 15 mg. triphenylphosphine 15 mg. were added and the mixture stirred for 30 minutes. Potassium 2 ethylhexanoate in ethyl acetate 250 ml. of 0.5M was then added and the mixture stirred 2 hours, and extracted with a half volume of water. With some difficulty, because of emulsion problems, the aqueous layer was separated and freeze dried to yield title product as a gummy solid, 70 mg. ¹H nmr D₂O 1.40 s, 3H , 1.58 s, 3H , 2.02 s, 3H , 4.18 dd, 1H, J 4.2, 9.5Hz , 4.20 s, 1H , 5.48 d, 1H, J 4.2Hz , 6.42 d, 1H, J 9.5Hz , 7.40 7.96 m, 5H . Title product of Example B3 75 mg., 0.24 mmol was dissolved in 2.5 ml. of ethyl acetate and treated in sequence with tetrakis triphenylphosphine palladium 14 mg., 0.053 mmol and potassium 2 ethylhexanoate 0.5 ml. of 0.5M, 0.25 mmol . After 5 minutes of stirring, material began to precipitate from the resulting solution. After stirring 2.5 hours, crude, hygroscopic title product was recovered by filtration 130 mg. . The latter was taken up in 5 ml. H₂O, extracted with 5 ml. ethyl acetate, and the aqueous phase freeze dried to yield solid title product, 48 mg. tlc Rf 0.01 1 1 ethyl acetate hexane ¹H nmr D₂O 1.41 s, 3H , 1.55 s, 3H0, 2.23 s, 3H , 3.84 dd, 1H, J 3.9, 9.6 Hz , 4.16 s, 1H , 4.62 d, 1H , J 9.6Hz , 5.43 d, 1H, J 3.9Hz i.r. KBr cm ¹ 3500 b , 2985 m , 1775 s , 1760 s , 1605 s , 1395 m , 1200 s , 1060 m . According to the method of the preceding Example, title product of Example B4 0.14 g., 0.0045 mole was converted to instant title product. Since the crude precipitate was tacky and did not filter well, the reaction mixture was diluted with 5 ml. ethyl acetate and 10 ml. H₂O. The aqueous and freeze dried to yield title product as hygroscopic foam, 140 mg. ¹H nmr D₂O 1.41 s, 3H , 1.58 s, 3H , 2.26 s, 3H , 3.92 dd, 1H, J 3.6, 9.6Hz , 4.12 s, 1H , 5.34 d, 1H, 3.6Hz i.r. KBr cm ¹ 3450 b , 2995 w , 1760 s , 1610 s , 1400 s , 1320 m . By the method of Example 1, except to add the potassium ethyl hexanoate 15 minutes later than the other reagents, the lp By the method of Example D6, the mp, By the method of Example D6, the By the method of Example D6, the Title product of Example B7 130 mg. was reacted according to the method of Example D1. At the end of the reaction period the reaction mixture was diluted with 10 ml. of ethyl acetate and 20 ml. of water. The aqueous layer was separated, washed 2 x 20 ml. fresh ethyl acetate and freeze dried to yield title product, in excess of 20 mg. ir KBr cm ¹ 3480 b , 2985 w , 1790 s , 1770 s , 1670 m , 1610 s , 1390 m ¹H nmr D₂O 1.63 s, 3H , 4.11 dd, 1H , 4.28 s, 1H , 5.39 d, 1H , 5.50 d, 1H , 7.30 dd, 1H , 7.98 m, 1H , 8.11 dd, 1H . By the method of the preceding Example, title product of Example B8 300 mg. was converted to instant, freeze dried, title product, in excess of 20 gm. ir KBr cm ¹ 3420 b , 2985 w , 1785 s , 1765 s , 1605 s , 1415 m ¹H nmr D₂O 1.56 s, 3H , 1.72 s, 3H , 4.22 dd, 1H , 4.23 s, 1H , 5.46 d, 1H , 5.58 s, 1H , 7.32 m, 1H , 8.06 m, 2H . According to the method of the preceding Example, the beta oxide of Example F1 80 mg., 0.2 mmole was converted to freeze dried title product, in excess of 20 mg. ir KBr cm ¹ 3450 b , 2995 w , 1780 s , 1765 s , 1680 s , 1620 s , 1445 w , 1390 m , 1330 m , 1060 m ¹H nmr D₂O 1.28 s, 3H , 1.60 s, 3H , 4.14 dd, 1H , 4.34 s, 1H , 5.35 d, 1H , 5.89 d, 1H , 7.52 8.01 m, 5H . According to the method of Example D11, the alpha oxide of Example F1 0.1 g. was convert to freeze dried title product ir KBr cm ¹ 3420 b , 2990 w , 1775 s , 1685 m , 1620 s , 1400 m , 1040 m ¹H nmr D₂O 1.34 s, 3H , 1.65 s, 3H , 4.28 s, 1H , 4.42 dd, 1H , 4.90 d, 1H , 4.81 d, 1H , 7.55 8.04 m, 5H . According to the method of Example D11, the title product of Example F2 0.028 g. was converted to instant, freeze dried title product, in excess of 20 mg. ¹H nmr D₂O 1.45 s, 3H , 1.55 s, 3H , 4.25 dd, 1H , 4.35 s, 1H , 5.31 d, 1H , 5.95 d, 2H , 7.58 8.10 m, 5H . By the procedure of Example D1, the more polar, Title product of Example G1 116 mg., 0.28 mmol was dissolved in 6 ml. of ethyl acetate. Added in sequence were tetrakis triphenylphosphine palladium 10 mg. , triphenylphosphine 10 mg. and potassium ethylhexanoate 0.57 ml. of 0.5M in ethyl acetate, 0.28 mmol . After stirring 30 minutes, the mixture was filtered and the cake washed 4 x 10 ml. ethyl acetate. The filtercake was taken up in 15 ml. H₂O, washed 3 x 15 ml. of fresh ethyl acetate, and freeze dried to yield title product as a white, fluffy powder, 61 mg. ¹H nmr 1.45 s, 3H , 1.57 s, 3H , 3.92 dd, 1H , 4.07 s, 2H , 4.20 s, 1H , 4.78 d, 1H , 5.45 d, 1H , 7.23 d, 2H , 7.36 m, 3H . To title product of Example G2 0.255 g., 0.64 mmol dissolved in 8 ml. ethyl acetate were added in sequence tetrakis triphenylphosphine palladium 15 mg. , triphenylphosphine 15 mg. and potassium 2 ethylhexanoate 1.28 ml. of 0.5M in ethyl acetate, 0.64 mol . After 30 minutes, the reaction mixture was filtered, recovering palladium catalyst, but the precipitated, colloid like product passing through the filter paper. The filtrate was extracted with 30 ml. H₂O. The aqueous phase was separated, backwashed 4 x 20 ml. fresh ethyl acetate and freeze dried to yield crude title product, 243 mg. The latter was triturated with ethyl acetate to obtain purified title product, 159 mg. ¹H nmr D₂O CD₃CN 1.81 s, 3H , 1.94 s, 3H , 4.20 dd, 1H , 4.52 s, 1H , 4.62 s, 2H , 5.09 d, 1H , 5.80 d, 1H , 7.31 m, 1H , 7.40 m, 1H , 7.73 m, 1H . By the method of Example D16, the 1 alpha oxide title product of Example F3 50 mg., 0.12 mmol was converted to above title product, 48 mg. ¹H nmr D₂O 1.27 s, 3H , 1.63 s, 3H , 3.94 s, 3H , 4.16 dd, 1H , 4.36 s, 1H , 5.37 d, 1H , 5.86 d, 1H , 7.12 d, 2H , 8.05 d, 2H . By the method of Example D16, the 1 beta oxide title product of Example F3 50 mg., 0.12 mmol was converted to above title product, 53 mg. ¹H nmr D₂O 1.35 s, 3H , 1.65 s, 3H , 3.94 s, 3H , 4.29 s, 1H , 4.41 dd, 1H , 4.91 d, 1H , 5.78 d, 1H , 7.13 d, 2H , 8.05 d, 2H . By the method of Example D15, title product of Example F4 50 mg., 0.12 mmol was converted to above title product, 40 mg. ¹H nmr D₂O 1.33 s, 3H , 1.72 s, 3H , 3.93 s, 3H , 4.34 s, 1H , 4.42 dd, 1H , 5.20 d, 1H , 5.85 d, 1H , 7.10 d, 2H , 8.01 d, 2H . By the method of Example D16, the By the method of Example 16, the The By the method of the preceding Example, By the method of Example D16, title product of Example B14 65 mg., 0.15 mmol was converted to instant title product, 52 mg. ¹H nmr D₂O 1.45 s, 3H , 1.62 s, 3H , 1.68 dd, 3H , 4.05 dd, 1H , 4.25 s, 1H , 5.14 m, 1H , 5.52 2d, 2H , 6.52 m, 1H , 7.12 d, 2H , 8.02 d, 2H ir KBr cm ¹ 3450 b , 2985 w , 1785 s , 1770 s , 1690 s , 1610 s , 1395 m , 1280 m . By the method of Example D16, except that an equal volume of ether was added to the reaction to initially precipitate the product, title product of Example B15 62.5 mg., 0.145 mmol was converted to instant title product, 41 mg. ¹H nmr D₂O 1.52 s, 3H , 1.65 m, 6H , 4.18 m, 2H , 5.15 m, 1H , 5.49 d, 1H , 5.58 d, 1H , 6.54 m, 1H , 7.13 d, 2H , 8.00 d, 2H ir KBr cm ¹ 3450 b , 1760 s , 1680 s , 1610 s , 1400 m . By the method of Example D16, title product of Example G3 25 mg., 0.064 mmol was converted to instant title product, 8.5 mg., ¹H nmr D₂O 1.42 s, 3H , 1.62 s, 3H , 4.05 dd, 1H , 4.23 s, 1H , 5.46 d, 1H , 5.50 d, 1H , 6.82 d, 2H , 7.95 d, 2H . Title product of Example B16 1.50 g., 0.0039 mol was dissolved in 25 ml. ethyl acetate. Added in sequence were palladium tetrakis triphenylphosphine 100 mg., 0.087 mmol and triphenylphosphine 100 mg., 0.39 mmol and the mixture stirred 3 minutes. Finally potassium 2 ethylhexanoate 7.86 ml. of 0.5M in ethyl acetate, 0.0039 mol was added by syringe over 2 minutes. After stirring 2.5 hours, solids were recovered by filtration and repulped in ethyl acetate to yield title product, 0.92 g. mp 233 234 dec ms parent 263, base 100 ¹H nmr D₂O delta 300MHz 1.45 d, 3H , 1.65 d, 3H , 4.1 m, 1H , 4.3 s, 1H , 5.4 d, 1H , 5.5 d, 1H , 7.6 m, 1H , 8.6 s, 1H . The more polar, The less polar, According to the method of Example D29, more polar By the method of the preceding Example, less polar By the procedure of Example D28, the more polar By the procedure of Example D28, the less polar More polar, Less polar, The more polar, The less polar, By the method of Example D35, the product of Example B22 39 mg., 0.1 mmol was converted to present title product, 16 mg. ¹H nmr D₂O 1.44 s, 3H , 1.61 s, 3H , 3.97 s, 3H , 4.14 dd, 1H, J 9.6, 4.5 , 4.24 s, 1H , 5.45 d, 1H, J 4.5 , 5.58 d, 1H, J 9.6 , 7.22 s, 1H , 7.42 s, 1H . The product of Example B23 0.90 g., 0.0021 mol was dissolved in 12 ml. ethyl acetate. Added sequentially, each over 3 5 minutes, were Pd C₆H₅ ₃P ₄ were 48 mg. , C₆H₅ ₃P 55 mg. and potassium ethyl hexanoate 4.17 ml. of 0.5M in ethyl acetate, 0.0021 mol . After stirring 4 hours, solids were recovered by filtration. These were repulped in 6 ml. ethyl acetate to yield purified title product, 0.74 g. mp 211 213 decomposition ¹H nmr CDCl₃ with a few drops CD₃CN to achieve solution 300 MHz 1.55 s, 3H , 1.75 s, 3H , 4.15 q, 1H , 4.4 s, 1H , 5.6 d, 1H , 5.65 d, 1H , 7.6 7.8 m, 2H , 8.1 8.2 dd, 2H , 8.6 s, 1H . By the method of the preceding Example, the product of Example B24 0.78 g. was converted to present title product, 0.68 g. mp 199 201 decomposition ¹H nmr 300 MHz, D₂O 1.45 s, 3H , 1.6 s, 3H , 4.1 m, 1H , 4.3 s, 1H , 5.4 d, 1H , 5.5 d, 1H , 7.3 7.5 m, 3H , 7.65 7.75 m, 2H , 8.4 s, 1H . By the method of Example D40, the product of Example B25 1.06 g., 0.0027 mol was converted to present title product. In the final stage, the material filtered from ethyl acetate was taken up in 50 ml. of H₂O and freeze dried to yield 0.79 g. mp 229 231 decomposition ¹H nmr 300 MHz, D₂O 1.4 s, 3H , 1.55 s, 3H , 2.35 s, 3H , 4.0 q, 1H , 4.2 s, 1H , 5.45 2d, 2H , 7.35 d, 2H , 7.85 d, 2H . The product of Example B26 0.39 g., 0.0009 mol was converted to freeze dried title product according to the preceding Example, 0.31 g. ¹H nmr D₂O, 300MHz 1.45 s, 3H , 1.65 s, 3H , 3.95 s, 3H , 4.1 q, 1H , 4.25 s, 1H , 5.5 dd, 2H , 8.05 8.15 dd, 4H . The product of Example B27 0.75 g., 0.0019 mol was converted to freeze dried title product according to Example D42, 0.71 g. m.p. 196 198 . The product of Example B28 1.13 g., 2.52 mmol was converted to title product according to Example D40, 0.77 g., solid, converted to freeze dried product by dissolving in water and freeze drying, 0.55 g. m.p. 132 135 C., ¹H nmr D₂O delta ppm 1.35 s, 3H , 1.45 s, 3H , 1.5 s, 3H , 3.9 q, 1H , 4.1 s, 1H , 4.5 s, 2H , 5.0 d, 1H , 5.35 d, 1H , 7.3 7.4 m, 5H . By the method of Example D42, the title product of Example B29 1.59 g., 4.02 mmol was converted to present freeze dried title product, 1.41 g. m.p. 249 251 C. ¹H nmr D₂O, 250MHz 1.35 s, 3H , 1.4 1.75 m, 10H , 1.6 s, 3H , 1.75 s, 3H , 2.05 2.3 br m, 1H , 4.0 4.1 q, 1H , 4.3 s, 1H , 5.5 5.15 d, 1H , 5.6 d, 1H . By the method of Example D42, the product of Example B30 2.28 g., 5.26 mmol was converted to present title product, 2.0 g. m.p. 265 267 decomposition ¹H nmr D₂O CD₃CN 300MHz 1.6 s, 3H , 1.75 s, 3H , 1.85 2.2 multiplets, 15H , 4.05 q, 1H , 4.3 s, 1H , 5.15 d, 1H , 5.5 d, 1H . By the method of Example D40, the product of Example G4 0.20 g., 0.493 mmol was converted to title product, 0.176 g. solid ¹H nmr 300MHz 1.45 s, 3H , 1.6 s, 3H , 4.05 q, 1H , 4.25 s, 1H , 4.7 s, 2H , 5.5 d, 1H , 5.55 d, 1H , 7.5 d, 2H , 8.0 d, 2H . By the method of Example D40, the product of Example B32 0.40 g., 0.92 mmol was converted to present title product, 0.29 g. m.p. 198 199 C. ¹H nmr D₂O, 300MHz 1.4 s, 3H , 1.55 s, 6H , 1.6 s, 3H , 4.05 q, 1H , 4.25 s, 1H , 5.5 d, 1H , 5.55 d, 1H , 7.6 d, 2H , 7.95 d, 2H . By the method of Example D40, the title product of Example B33 0.125 g., 0.295 mmol was converted to present title product, 0.11 g. ¹H nmr D₂O, 300MHz 1.45 s, 3H , 1.6 s, 3H , 4.05 q, 1H , 4.25 s, 1H , 4.7 s, 2H , 5.5 overlapping doublets, 2H , 7.6 d, 2H , 7.95 d, 2H . By the method of Example D35, By the method of Example D35, By the method of Example D40, but using 1 1 ethyl acetate ether as solvent, the product of Example B35 0.10 g., 0.2 mmol was converted to present title product, 0.058 g. ¹H nmr D₂O 1.42 s, 3H , 1.43 s, 3H , 1.48 s, 3H , 1.53 s, 3H , 3.90 br s, 1H , 4.15 s, 1H , 4.91 d, 1H, J 6Hz , 5.08 m, 2H , 5.36 br s, 1H , 7.40 s, 5H . By the method of Example D53, the product of Example B36 0.5 g., 0.95 mmol was converted to present title product to present title product, 0.24 g. ¹H nmr D₂O 1.59 s, 3H , 1.75 s, 3H , 4.16 m, 1H , 4.37 s, 1H , 5.28 s, 2H , 5.60 m, 2H , 7.46 s, 5H , 7.64 d, 2H, J 6Hz , 8.08 d, 2H, J 6Hz tlc Rf 0.45 17 2 1 CHCl₃ CH₃OH CH₃CO₂H . By the method of Example D53, the product of Example B37 0.59 g., 1.2 mmol was converted to present title product, 0.48 g. ¹H nmr D₂O 1.19 s, 3H , 1.27 t, 3H, J 4Hz , 1.44 s, 3H , 4.01 m, 3H , 4.12 s, 1H , 4.94 d, 1H, J 3Hz , 5.42 d, 1H, J 8Hz , 7.03 d, 1H, J 4Hz , 7.24 t, 1H, J 4Hz , 7.40 t, 1H, J 4Hz , 7.52 d, 1H, J 4Hz , 7.61 d, 1H, J 4Hz , 7.67 d, 1H, J 4Hz . By the method of Example D40, the product of Example B38 44 mg., 0.112 mol was converted to present title product, 31 mg. ¹H nmr D₂O 1.47 s, 3H , 1.64 s, 3H , 4.08 dd, 1H, J 4 and 8Hz , 4.27 s, 1H , 5.51 d, 1H, J 4Hz , 5.54 d, 1H, J 8Hz , 7.18 m, 1H , 7.49 m, 3H . By the method of Example D40, the product of Example B39 41 mg., 0.095 mol was converted to present title product, 31 mg. ¹H nmr D₂O 1.50 s, 3H , 1.67 s, 3H , 4.15 dd, 1H, J 4 and 8Hz , 4.30 s, 1H , 5.60 d, 1H, J 4Hz , 5.62 d, 1H, J 8Hz , 7.67 m, 1H , 7.94 m, 3H , 8.87 s, 1H , 9.11 s, 1H substantially identical with the product of Example D27. By the method of Example D45, the product of Example B40 0.11 g. was converted to freeze dried title product, 0.065 g. ¹H nmr D₂O 1.46 s, 3H , 1.64 s, 3H , 4.07 dd, 1H, J 4Hz, 4Hz , 4.26 s, 1H , 5.47 d, 1H, J 4Hz , 5.52 d, 1H, J 8Hz , 6.88 d, 2H, J 8Hz , 7.95 d, 2H, J 8Hz . By the method of Example D45, the product of Example B41 1.08 g., 2.5 mmol was converted to freeze dried title product, 0.78 g. ¹H nmr D₂O 1.43 s, 3H , 1.62 s, 3H , 4.13 dd, 1H, J 4Hz, 4Hz , 4.26 s, 1H , 5.01 d, 1H, J 4Hz , 5.70 d, 1H, J 10Hz , 7.67 m, 2H , 7.98 m, 4H , 8.62 s, 1H . Title product of Example C3 150 mg. and NaHCO₃ 4 0.8 equivalents in 10 ml. 1 1 H₂O CH₃OH was hydrogenated at atmospheric pressure over 250 mg. of prehydrogenated 10 Pd C until uptake of hydrogen had ceased. The catalyst was recovered by filtration, the methanol stripped, and the aqueous residue extracted with ether and freeze dried to yield title product as a hydroscopic solid, 70 mg. ¹H nmr D₂O 1.46 s, 3H , 1.60 s, 3H , 2.11 s, 3H , 4.12 s, 1H , 4.28 dd, 1H, J 3.6, 9.6Hz , 5.44 d, 1H, J 3.6Hz , 6.32 d, 1H, J 9.6Hz , 7.56 8.01 m, 5H . By the same method substituting KHCO₃ for NaHCO₃, the title product of Example C2 is converted to the title product of Example D3. 5 Pd diatomaceous earth 0.20 g. of 50 water wet was slurried in 30 ml. 1 1 CH₃OH H₂O, the pH adjusted to 4.5 with dilute HCl, and the mixture prehydrogenated for 15 minutes at atmospheric pressure. The product of Example D53 0.10 g., 0.2 mmol was taken up in 5 ml. CH₃OH, the pH adjusted to 4.5 with dilute HCl, the resulting solution added to the hydrogenated catalyst slurry, and the mixture hydrogenated at atmospheric pressure for 40 minutes. The catalyst was recovered by filtration, the filtrate stripped of THF and the aqueous residue freeze dried to yield 0.085 g. of crude product. The latter was taken up in 15 ml. each of H₂O and ethyl acetate and the pH adjusted to 2.5. The aqueous phase was separated, extracted 3 x 15 ml. fresh ethyl acetate, adjusted to pH 5.15 and freeze dried to yield purified title product, 0.035 g. ¹H nmr D₂O 1.55 s, 3H , 1.64 s, 3H , 1.70 s, 3H , 1.73 s, 3H , 4.07 dd, 1H, J 4 and 6Hz , 5.58 s, 1H , 5.09 d, 1H, J 6Hz , 5.56 d, 1H, J 4Hz . By methods well known for the acylation of 6 aminopenicillanic acid, the side chain amino group of the present product is acylated to form further useful N formyl, N C₂ C₅ alkanoyl, N benzoyl, N phenoxyacetyl or N phenylacetyl optionally substituted on aromatic or aliphatic carbon with hydroxy or amino derivatives. 5 Pd C 0.10 g. was prereduced with hydrogen at atmospheric pressure in 30 ml. 1 1 H₂O CH₃OH for 15 minutes. The product of Example D54 0.10 g. was added and the mixture hydrogenated 2 hours at atmospheric pressure. Catalyst was recovered by filtration over diatomaceous earth, the filtrate was stripped of methanol and the aqueous residue freeze dried to yield present title product, 0.066 g. tlc Rf 0.28 17 2 1 CHCl₃ CH₃OH CH₃CO₂H ¹H nmr D₂O 1.40 s, 3H , 1.57 s, 3H , 4.01 m, 1H , 4.21 s, 1H , 5.42 m, 2H , 6.76 d, 2H, J 6Hz , 7.82 d, 2H, J 6Hz . By methods well known in the art, as routinely employed in the acylation of 6 aminopenicillanic acid, the present product is acylated to form N acyl derivatives, such as those enumerated in the preceding Example. Under N₂, the 1 beta oxide lp , 100 mg. tlc Rf 0.5 1 1 ethyl acetate hexane ir CHCl₃ cm ¹ 3400 b , 2990 w , 1790 s , 1755 s , 1685 s , 1600 w , 1585 w ,1450 m , 1375 m , 1270 s , 1050 s ¹H nmr 1.22 s, 3H , 1.65 s, 3H , 4.09 dd, 1H , 4.72 s, 1H , 4.72 m, 2H , 5.07 d, 1H , 5.40 m, 2H , 5.95 m, 1H , 6.10 d, 1H , 7.39 8.08 m, 5H . 1 alpha oxide mp , 130 mg tlc Rf 0.15 1 1 ethyl acetate hexane ir CHCl₃ cm ¹ 3450 b , 2990 w , 1795 s , 1755 s , 1695 s , 1600 w , 1450 w , 1270 s ¹H nmr 1.42 s, 3H , 1.67 s, 3H , 4.30 m, 2H , 4.43 s, 1H , 4.65 m, 2H , 4.90 d, 1H , 5.32 m, 2H , 5.60 dd, 1H , 5.9 m, 1H , 7.51 8.02 m, 5H . Using 2.2 molar equivalents of Under N₂, more polar, 1 alpha oxide lp 99 mg. ¹H nmr 1.23 s, 3H , 1.65 s, 3H , 3.58 d, 1H , 3.85 s, 3H , 4.06 dd, 1H , 4.70 s, 3H , 4.71 d, 2H , 5.14 d, 1H , 5.37 m, 2H , 5.93 m, 1H , 6.03 dd, 1H , 6.90 d, 2H , 8.05 d, 2H . 1 beta oxide mp , 128 mg. ¹H nmr 1.42 s, 3H , 1.65 s, 3H , 3.90 s, 3H , 4.30 dd, 1H , 4.35 d, 1H , 4.44 s, 1H , 4.67 d, 2H , 4.90 d, 1H , 5.34 m, 2H , 5.55 dd, 1H , 5.91 m, 1H , 7.00 d, 2H , 7.96 d, 2H . Less polar Title product of Example B10 either or both epimers, 0.127 g., 0276 mmol was taken up in 8.28 ml. THF and stirred in an ice water bath. HCl 0.1N, 276 mmol was added slowly. The mixture was stirred at 0 for 1 hour, and at ambient temperature for 1.5 hours, then poured into 15 ml. saturated NaHCO₃ and extracted 1 x 15 ml. and 3 x 10 ml. of ether. The organic extracts were combined, dried and stripped to yield title product as an oil, 105 mg. ¹H nmr 1.46 s, 3H , 1.64 s, 3H , 3.47 d OH , 1H , 3.82 dd, 1H , 3.99 s, 2H , 4.45 s, 1H , 4.66 d, 2H , 4.73 dd, 1H , 5.35 m, 2H , 5.50 d, 1H , 5.92 m, 1H , 7.24 m, 2H , 7.31 m, 3H ir KBr cm ¹ 3461 b , 2929 m , 1769 s , 1750 s , 1207 m ms m e 91, 114, 200, 269, 298, 304, 389. By the procedure of the preceding Example, title product of Example B11 0.76 g., 0.0016 mol was converted to instant title product as an oil, 0.74 g., chromatographed on 80 g. silica gel with 1 49 acetone CHCl₃ as eluant to yield purified title product, 0.26 g. tlc Rf 0.25 1 49 acetone CHCl₃ ¹H nmr 1.48 s, 3H , 1.67 s, 3H , 3.33 d OH , 1H , 3.86 dd, 1H , 4.23 3, 2H , 4.46 s, 1H , 4.67 d, 2H , 4.77 dd, 1H , 5.34 m, 2H , 5.53 d, 1H , 5.94 m, 1H , 6.98 m, 2H , 7.24 m, 1H . Title product of Example B14 98 mg., 0.23 mmol was dissolved in 3 ml. 10 1 acetone H₂O. With stir ring, HgO 63 mg. and then HgCl₂ 63 mg, 0.23 mmol were added over 3 minutes. After 18 hours, 10 ml. of saturated KI and 10 ml. ethyl acetate were added. The aqueous layer was separated and washed 3 x 10 ml. fresh ethyl acetate. The four organic layers were combined, dried MgSO₄ , stripped to an oil and chromatographed on silica gel using 1 1 ethyl acetate hexane as eluant to yield purified title product as a colorless oil, 25 mg. ¹H nmr 1.47 s, 3H , 1.72 s, 3H , 4.12 m, 2H , 4.52 s, 1H , 4.67 m, 2H , 5.35 m, 2H , 5.57 d, 1H , 5.91 m, 1H , 6.85 d, 2H , 7.95 d, 2H . The title product of Example B31 0.80 g., 1.54 mmol in 3 ml. THF was cooled to 0 5 . Glacial acetic acid 0.924 g., 0.881 ml., 15.4 mmol was added by syringe over 3 minutes, followed by tetrabutyl ammonium fluoride 4.62 ml. of 1M in THF over 10 minutes. The mixture was stirred 45 minutes at 0 5 and 2 hours at room temperature, poured into 25 ml. H₂O and extracted 3 x 25 ml. H₂O, 2 x 25 ml. saturated NaHCO₃ and 1 x 25 ml. brine, dried and stripped to yield title product as a solid, 0.45 g. tlc Rf 0.12 1 1 hexane ethyl acetate . Tetrabutylammonium hydrogen sulfate 0.374 g., 1.1 mmol was dissolved in 2.5 ml. H₂O. NaHCO₃ 92 mg., 1.1 mmol was added portionwise at a rate which controlled the foaming. Finally, title product of Example D10 0.42 g., 1.1 mmol was added. After about 30 minutes of stirring, the solution was extracted 4 x 5 ml. CHCl₃ and the combined extracts were dried and stripped to yield tetrabutylammonium 6 beta The product of Example D37 0.616 g., 0.0015 mol was dissolved in 5 ml. DMF. Chloromethyl pivalate 0.218 ml., 0.0015 mol and the mixture stirred for 16 hours, then diluted with 10 ml. each of H₂O and ethyl acetate, the pH adjusted to 7.0 and the organic layer separated washed 3 x 5 ml. H₂O and 1 x 5 ml. brine, dried and stripped to an oil, purified by chroma tography on 13 g. silica gel with 7 1 CH₂Cl₂ ethyl acetate as eluant, 0.446 g. tlc Rf 0.6 7 1 CH₂Cl₂ ethyl acetate ¹H nmr 1.22 s, 9H , 1.49 s, 3H , 1.71 s, 3H , 4.08 s, 3H , 4.12 dd, 1H, J 4.3, 8.27 , 4.50 s, 1H , 5.39 d, 1H, J 8.27 , 5.54 d, 1H, J 4.3 , 5.82 ABq, 2H, J 5.1 , 7.46 m, 5H . By the method of the preceding Example, except to use 9 1 CH₂Cl₂ ethyl acetate as eluant on chroma tography, the product of Example D29 0.25 g., 0.007 mol was converted to present title product, 118 mg. ¹H nmr 250 MHz 1.21 s, 9H , 1.48 s, 3H , 1.68 s, 3H , 3.40 br d, 1H, J 5.53 , 3.94 s, 3H , 4.03 dd, 1H, J 4.67, 7.7 , 4.47 s, 1H , 5.17 br dd, 1H, J 5.53, 7.7 , 5.48 d, 1H, J 4.67 , 5.80 ABq, 2H, J 5.45 , 6.19 m, 1H , 6.90 m, 1H , 7.20 m, 1H . By the method of Example H1, title product of Example D42 2.0 g., 0.0052 mol was converted to present title product as an oil 2.15 g. which was chromatographed on silica gel with 5 2 hexane ethyl acetate as eluant form purified title product as a solid foam, 1.55 g. mp 111 113 ¹H nmr 300 MHz 1.15 s, 9H , 1.4 s, 3H , 1.65 s, 3H , 2.35 s, 3H , 3.95 q, 1H , 4.4 s, 1H , 5.35 d, 1H , 5.45 d, 1H , 5.75 dd, 2H , 7.2 d, 2H , 7.8 d, 2H . Under nitrogen, 6,6 dibromopenicillanic acid 20.0 g., 55.7 mmol was dissolved in 60 ml. DMF and cooled to 0 C. Triethylamine 7.74 ml. , NaHCO₃ 0.5 g. and allyl bromide 4.5 ml. were added sequentially to the cold solution. The reaction mixture was warmed, stirred 20 hours at ambient temperature, poured into 600 ml. ice and water, and extracted with 600 ml. ether. The organic extract was washed with brine, dried and evaporated to yield title product as a syrup, 18.0 g., tlc Rf 0.9 1 1 ethyl acetate hexane ¹H nmr 1.46 s, 3H , 1.59 s, 3H , 4.53 s, 1H , 4.62 m, 2H , 5.38 m, 2H , 5.76 s, 1H , 5.92 m, 1H . DMSO 35 ml., dry, distilled from CaH₂ and NaH 3.08 g., 0.076 mol as a 60 suspension in oil was heated under nitrogen until evolution of H₂ was complete, cooled to 0 C., and diluted with 35 ml. THF. Methyl furan 2 carboxylate 5 ml., 5.89 g., 0.047 mol was added, the mixture warmed to ambient temperature, stirred 2 hours, poured into an equal volume of water, and extracted with one half volume of ether. The aqueous layer was adjusted to pH3 with 6N HCl and extracted 3 x 150 ml. CHCl₃. The CHCl₃ extracts were combined, dried and evaporated to an oil which crystallized on standing in vacuum. The latter was slurried in minimal 1 1 CHCl₃ hexane and recovered by filtration, 2.84 g. tlc Rf 0.7 3 1 ethyl acetate methanol ¹H nmr 2.75 s, 3H , 4.21 ABq, 2H , 6.58 dd, 1H , 7.32 d, 1H , 7.62 d, 1H . A solution of title product of the preceding Preparation 1.0 g. in 2 ml. DMSO, 0.75 ml. H₂O and 0.1 ml. 12N HCl was allowed to stand for 16 hours, by which time product began to crystallize. The mixture was diluted with 10 ml. water and extracted 2 x 15 ml. CHCl₃. The organic layers were combined, dried, evaporated to a syrup and crystallized from CHCl₃ and hexane, 0.6 g., tlc Rf 0.9 3 1 ethyl acetate methanol ¹H nmr 2.1 s, 3H , 4.23 d, 1H , 5.95 d, 1H , 6.62 dd, 1H , 7.42 dd, 1H , 7.63 m, 1H . To a solution of title product of the preceding Preparation 8.5 g., 0.049 mol in 6 1 THF H₂O 60 ml. was added anhydrous CuSO₄ 9.0 g. and sodium acetate 9.0 g. . A slight exotherm was noted and a bluegreen solution resulted. After one hour, precipitated solids were removed by filtrating with THF wash. The combined filtrate and wash was diluted with water and extracted 6 x 50 ml. CHCl₃ and 2 x 50 ml. ethyl acetate. All eight extracts were combined, dried and evaporated to yield 5 g. of crude title product, purified by distillation, 3.6 g. bp 63 0.5 mm. tlc Rf 0.25 1 1 ethyl acetate hexane . Under nitrogen, sodium hydride 12 g., 0.5 mol, 20 g. of 60 suspension in oil was washed 3 x 50 ml. hexane, added to dry DMSO 250 ml. and heated at 67 for 2 hours. The resulting solution was cooled to 12 and methyl anisate 41.54 g., 0.25 mol in 50 ml. THF added dropwise over 20 minutes. After warming to room temperature and holding for 2 hours, the reaction mixture was quenched into 200 ml. water, extracted with 3 x 100 ml. ether, acidified to pH 3 with 6NHCl, and extracted with 3 x 150 ml. CHCl₃. The CHCl₃ extracts were combined, dried and evaporated to yield title product as a powder, 70.2 g. slightly wet , ¹H nmr 2.72 s, 3H , 3.80 s, 3H , 4.42 ABq, 2H , 7.01 d, J 9Hz, 2H , 8.12 d, J 9Hz, 2H . Title product of the preceding Preparation 70.2 g. was dissolved in 100 ml. DMSO, diluted with water 750 ml. , and treated with 100 ml. 12N HCl. After stirring 18 hours, title product was recovered by filtration, 39.8 g. ¹H nmr 2.00 s, 3H , 3.91 s, 3H , 4.33 bs, 1H , 6.15 s, 1H , 7.01 d, J 9Hz, 2H , 8.12 d, J 9Hz, 2H . Title product of the preceding Preparation 39.8 g., 0.187 mol was dissolved with warming in 200 ml. CHCl₃. With vigorous stirring Cupric acetate monohydrate 28.15 g., 0.141 mol was added in one portion. The reaction mixture was stirred for 1 hour, then filtered with 3 x 75 ml. of CHCl₃ wash. The filtrate and CHCl₃ washes were combined and extracted with 100 ml. water. The water layer was separated, neutralized with K₂CO₃ about 2 g. was required , recombined and equilibrated with the organic layer, reseparated and extracted with 4 x 30 ml. CHCl₃. The equilibrated organic layer and CHCl₃ extracts were combined, dried over MgSO₄ and evaporated to yield title product as a semisolid, 36.5 g. Except to extract product into CH₂Cl₂ at pH 2.8, the method of Preparation 5 was used to covert methyl thiophene 2 carboxylate 27.5 g., 0.193 mol into instant title product, an oil which was crystallized by slurrying in ether, 195. g. ¹H nmr 2.75 s, 3H , 4.30 s, 2H , 7.05 m, 1H , 7.80 m, 2H . Title product of the preceding Preparation 19.5 g. was dissolved in 38 ml. DMSO, 14 ml. water and 1.95 ml. 12N HCl, allowed to stand 18 hours, poured into 500 ml. water, and title product recovered by filtration, 14 g. ¹H nmr 2.05 s, 3H , 4.30 d, 1H , 5.90 d, 1H , 7.15 m, 1H , 7.90 m, 1H . By the method of Preparation 7, title product of the preceding Preparation 3.3 g. was converted to the hydrate of instant title product as a liquid, 2.3 g., distilled under vacuum using a short path distillation head to yield title product as a low melting solid, 1.9 g., tlc Rf 0.3 1 1 ethyl acetate hexane . Except to adjust the pH to 1.5 with concentrated HCl, and to wash the CHCl₃ extracts 2 x 100 ml. saturated NaHCO₃ prior to drying, methyl naphthyl 1 carboxylate 25.0 g., 0.134 mol was converted to instant title product as an oil, 35.5 g. ¹H nmr 2.85 s, 3H , 4.58 s, 3H , 7.4 8.80 m, 7H . Title product of the preceding Preparation 35.5 g. was converted to present title product. The water washed wet cake was taken up in CHCl₃, separated from the aqueous phase, dried over MgSO₄ and stripped to yield purified title product as a powder, 26.8 g. ¹H nmr 2.05 s, 3H , 4.68 d, 1H , 6.25 d, 2H , 7.4 8.82 m, 7H . By the method of Preparation 7, title product of the preceding Preparation was converted to yield the hydrate of title product as a syrup, 22.4 g. The latter, 10 g., was distilled at 147 0.4 mm. to yield title product, 5.1 g., as an oil. For use in the present syntheses, title product was freshly prepared by cracking N 2 phenyl 2 oxo 1 hydroxyethyl benzamide in a bath at 150 C. under high vacuum using a short path distillation head and a tared receiver. Allyl alcohol 46.8 ml. 40 g., 0.69 mol and ethyl vinyl ether 98.9 ml., 74.5 g., 1.033 mols were stirred together at 12 . dl Camphorsulfonic acid 150 mg. was added acid and stirring continued for 3 hours at that temperature. The mixture was then washed 1 x 100 ml. saturated NaHCO₃, 1 x 100 ml. brine, dried and stripped to yield title product as an oil 100 ml., essentially quantitative yield . ¹H nmr 1.14 t, 3H , 1.29 d, 3H , 3.56 dp, 2H , 4.06 m, 2H , 4.75 q, 1H , 5.26 m, 2H , 5.99 m, 1H . 3 1 Ethoxy ethoxy 1 propene 40 g., 0.0307 mol was stirred in 100 ml. methanol at 78 for 5.5 hours as O₃ was through the solution. The resulting pale blue solution was purged with H₂, dimethyl sulfide 34 ml., 43.4 g., 0.68 mol was added, and the mixture warmed to room temperature over 45 minutes. K₂CO₃ 0.2 g. was added, the reaction mixture stripped of solvent, and the residue diluted with 1 1 water ether. The aqueous layer was separated, diluted with brine and extracted with fresh ether. The organic layers were combined, dried and stripped to yield title product as an oil, 15.25 g., ¹H nmr 1.24 t, 3H , 1.37 d, 3H , 3.50 s, 2H , 3.61 m, 2H , 4.81 m, 1H , 9.87 s, 1H . Benzaldehyde 4.2 ml., 4.41 g., 0.0416 mol was stirred at 0 in a mixture of 150 ml. CH₃OH, 54 ml. H₂O and 42 ml. 10 NaOH. Title product of the preceding Example 5.00 g., 0.038 mol was added slowly and the mixture stirred at ambient temperature for 16 hours, then extracted with 3 x 200 ml. hexane. The organic layers were combined, dried, and stripped to an oil 4.78 g. which was chromatographed on 450 g. silica gel with 7 1 hexane ether as eluant to yield purified title product, 2.75 g., ¹H nmr 1.10 t, 3H , 1.49 d, 3H , 3.68 m, 2H , 5.78 q, 1H , 6.66 s, 1H , 7.46 m, 3H , 8.00 m, 2H , 9.46 s, 1H . Except to use a reaction time of 36 hours at ambient temperature, and to use toluene as eluant on chromatography, thiophene 2 carbaldehyde 3.1 ml., 3.74 g., 0.083 mol and 2 1 ethoxy ethoxy acetaldehyde 4.0 g., 0.030 mol were converted to instant title product as a yellow solid 1.39 g., crystallized from hexane, 109 mg. ¹H nmr 1.14 t, 3H , 1.52 d, 3H , 3.75 m, 2H , 6.01 q, 1H , 6.99 s, 1H , 7.15 m, 1H , 7.53 m, 2H , 9.40 s, 1H . Except to carry out the CHCl₃ extraction at pH 5.0, the method of Preparation 5 was employed to convert title product of the preceding Preparation 52.8 g., 0.25 mol into above title product as white crystals 41.1 g. tlc Rf 0.5 4 1 ethyl acetate methanol ¹H nmr 2.70 s, 3H , 3.0 s, 6H , 4.30 ABq, 2H 6.67 d, 2H , 7.85 d, 2H . Except that the pH was adjusted to 8.2 with 4N NaOH prior to initial recovery, the method of Preparation 6 was used to convert title product of the preceding Preparation 41.1 g., 0.18 mol to present title. The resulting water washed, wet cake was taken up in excess CHCl₃ and separated from the aqueous phase. The organic phase was stripped to yield title product, 40.2 g., used without characterization in the next step. By the method of Preparation 7, title product of the preceding Preparation 19.17 g., 0.085 mol was converted to instant title product, 11.6 g., used without characterization in the procedure of Example A10. Except to CH₂Cl₂ for extraction, to backwash the combined extracts 1 x 100 ml. saturated NaHCO₃, the method of Preparation 5 was used to convert ethyl Title product of the preceding Preparation 15.2 g., 0.076 mol was dissolved in 26.5 ml. DMSO and diluted with 9.9 ml. H₂O. Concentrated HCl 1.35 ml. was added and the mixture stirred 20 hours, then poured into an equal volume of water and extracted 4 x 50 ml. CH₂Cl₂. The organic layers were combined, back washed 1 x 50 ml. H₂O, dried and stripped to yield instant title product as an oil which crystallized on standing, 14.3 g. ¹H nmr 2.20 s, 3H , 4.31 d, 1H , 6.03 d, 1H , 7.12 m, 2H , 8.05 m, 2H . By the method of Preparation 7, title product of the preceding Preparation 14.3 g. was converted to 4 fluorophenyl glyoxal hydrate, dehydrated to the instant title product by vacuum distillation, 6.0 g. bp 77 78 4.5 mm. ¹H nmr 7.15 m, 2H , 8.23 m, 2H , 9.60 s, 1H . NaH 60 in oil, 10 g., 0.25 mol was washed 3 x 100 ml. hexane in place. 350 ml. DMF was then added, the mixture stirred under N₂, and methyl 4 hydroxy benzoate 38.0 g., 0.25 mol added portionwise over 20 minutes as H₂ evolved. Allyl bromide 21.6 ml., 0.25 mol was then added via syringe over 5 minutes. After 40 minutes additional stirring, the reaction mixture was poured into 400 ml. ice and water and 150 ml. ether was added. The layers were separated and the aqueous layer extracted 4 x 150 ml. fresh ether and 1 x 100 ml. hexane. The organic layers were combined, washed 2 x 150 ml. saturated NaHCO₃, dried over MgSO₄, and strip ped to yield title product, 47.6 g. 3.89 s, 3H , 4.60 m, 2H , 5.46 m, 2H , 6.1 m, 1H , 6.99 d, 2H , 8.10 d, 2H . By the method of Preparation B5, title product of the preceding Preparation 47.6 g., 0.25 mol was converted to instant title product, initially isolated as a semisolid which was crystallized from CHCl₃ hexane, 29.6 g. ¹H nmr 1.69 dd, 3H , 2.70 s, 3H , 4.40 ABq, 2H , 5.10 m, 1H , 6.60 m, 1H , 7.10 d, 2H , 8.05 d, 2H . It was noted that the allyl group rearranged to a propenyl group during this process. By the method of Preparation 6 title product of the preceding Preparation 29.6 g., 0.124 mol was converted to instant title product, initially dispersed as an oil in the reaction mixture. Methanol just sufficient to dissolve the oil was added, followed by dropwise addition of water to the cloud point. The instant title product crystallized on standing 8.4 g. ¹H nmr 1.8 dd, 3H , 2.1 s, 3H , 4.70 m, 1H , 5.2 m, 1H , 6.25 m, 1H , 7.2 d, 2H , 8.2 d, 2H . According to the method of Preparation 25, title product of the preceding Preparation 4.8 g., 0.020 mol was converted to instant title product, 2.78 g. bp 180 3 torr. 3 Acetylthiophene 20.0 g., 0.159 mol and SeO₂ 19.4 g., 0.175 mol were dissolved 100 ml. dioxane and 8 ml. H₂O by warming to 35 , then heated at reflux 16 hours. The reaction mixture was cooled, filtered and the filtrate stripped to a sludge the hydrate of title product in crude form . The latter was distilled at reduced pressure to yield title product contaminated with about 10 starting material, 8.53 g. tlc 5 3 hexane ethyl acetate Rf 0.27 title product and 0.59 3 acetylthiophene . The latter was chromatographed on silica gel with 5 3 hexane ethyl acetate as eluant. Clean product fractions were combined stripped to a solid, triturated with hexane, filtered and the solids 5.60 g. sublimed to yield purified title product, 3.20 g. tlc Rf 0.27 as above sublimation point 70 1 mm ms parent 141, base 111. To 1 methylpyrrole 2 carboxylic acid 28.66 g., 0.229 mol in 75 ml. DMF at 0 was added N ethyl diisopropylamine 39.4 ml., 0.229 mol followed by CH₃I 14.27 ml., 0.229 mol . The reaction mixture was stirred 16 hours at room temperature, diluted with equal volumes each of ethyl acetate and water, the pH adjusted from 3.4 to 8.5, and the layers separated. The aqueous layer was washed 1 x 100 ml. fresh ethyl combined, washed 2 x 100 ml. H₂O and 1 x 100 ml. brine, dried over Na₂SO₄ and stripped to yield title product as an oil, 24.83 g. ¹H nmr CDCl₃ delta 3.75 s, 3H , 3.87 s, 3H , 5.97 m, 1H , 6.62 m, 1H , 6.78 m, 1H . By the procedure of Preparation 5, using CH₂Cl₂ for extraction, title product of the preceding Preparation 24.83 g., 0.178 mol was converted to instant title product, an oil which crystallized on standing in the refrigerator, 21.64 g. mp 74 76 ¹H nmr CDCl₃ delta 2.73 s, 3H , 3.92 s, 3H , 4.10 ABq, J 13Hz, 2H , 6.12 m, 1H , 6.82 m, 1H , 6.97 m, 1H . Title product of the preceding Preparation 21.63, 0.117 mol was stirred with DMSO 40.9 ml. , H₂O 14.56 ml. and 8N HCl 2.078 ml., 0.26 mol for 16 hours, poured into equal volumes each of water and CH₂Cl₂, the pH adjusted to 8.5 with dilute NaOH and the layers separated. The aqueous layer was washed 3 x 50 ml. CH₂Cl₂. The organic layers were combined, washed 2 25 ml. H₂O, dried over Na₂SO₄ and stripped to yield title product, 16.62 g. ¹H nmr CDCl₃ delta 2.17 s, 3H , 3.95 s, 3H , 5.80 s, 1H , 6.10 m, 1H , 6.83 m, 1H , 7.05 m, 1H . Title product of the preceding Preparation 16.62 g., 0.090 mol and cupric acetate hydrate 13.43 g., 0.067 mol were combined in 80 ml. CHCl₃. After stirring 1.5 hours, the mixture was filtered and the filtrate wash 1 x 40 ml. saturated NaHCO₃ and 1 x 40 ml. H₂O, dried over Na₂SO₄, stripped and the residue distilled to yield title product, 2.03 g. bp 80 84 2.4 mm ¹H nmr CDCl₃ delta 3.98 s, 1H , 6.18 m, 1H , 6.95 m, 1H , 7.45 m, 1H , 9.60 s, 1H . To pyrrole 2 carboxylic acid 1.11 g., 0.010 mol in 5 ml. DMF at 0 was added N ethyl diisopropylamine 1.806 ml., 0.0105 mol followed by methyl iodide 0.654 ml., 0.0105 mol . The mixture was stirred 18 hours at room temperature, diluted with 10 ml. ethyl acetate and 10 ml. H₂O, the pH adjusted to 8.5, and the organic layer separated, washed 1 x 10 ml. H₂O, dried over Na₂SO₄, and stripped with CHCl₃ chase to yield title product as a gummy solid containing 10 DMF, 0.93 g. ¹H nmr CDCl₃ delta narrow product peaks only 3.80 s, 3H , 6.15 m, 1H , 6.83 m, 2H . Title product of the preceding Example 19.87 g., 0.159 mol was dissolved in 200 ml. THF at 0 . NaH 7.622 g. of 50 in oil, 0.159 mol was added portionwise so as to control foaming, followed by benzyl bromide 18.9 ml., 0.159 mol and NaI 0.6 g. . The reaction was stirred 9 days at room temperature, then poured to equal volumes each of ethyl acetate and H₂O, the pH adjusted to 8.5 with dilute HCl, the aqueous layer separated and extracted with 200 ml. ethyl acetate, the organic layers combined and washed 2 x 100 ml. of H₂O, dried over Na₂SO₄, stripped and the residue chromatographed on silica gel 1 1 CH₂Cl₂ hexane as eluant to yield purified title product, 22 g. tlc Rf 0.3 1 1 CH₂Cl₂ hexane ¹H nmr CDCl₃ delta 3.80 s, 3H , 5.60 s, 2H , 6.20 m, 1H , 7.13 m, 7H . Sodium hydride 9.95 g. of 50 in oil, 0.207 mol was washed twice with hexane, warmed at 70 in DMSO 80 ml. until hydrogen evolution had ceased 1 to 1.5 hours , cooled to 15 and diluted with 80 ml. THF. Maintaining 5 to 5 , title product of the preceding Preparation 22. 31 g., 0.104 mol was added portion wise. The reaction mixture was then stirred at room temperature 0.5 hour, poured into 160 ml. ice water, extracted 2 x 100 150 ml. ether, adjusted to pH with dilute HCl, and extracted 5 x 150 ml. CH₂Cl₂. The CH₂Cl₂ extracts were combined, washed 1 x 200 ml. saturated NaHCO₃, dried over Na₂SO₄ and stripped to yield title product , 19.36 g. mp 95 97 tlc Rf 0.2 ethyl acetate ¹H nmr CDCl₃ delta 2.6 s, 3H , 4.17 ABq, 2H, J 13Hz , 5.58 s, 2H , 6.30 m, 1H, 7.20 m, 7H . By the method of Preparation 33, title product of the preceding Preparation 19.4 g., 0.074 was converted to instant title product, 19.2 g. ¹H nmr CDCl₃ delta 1.83 s, 1H , 5.48 s, 2H , 5.75 s, 1H , 6.15 m, 1H , 7.03 m, 7H . By the method of Preparation 34, title product of the preceding Preparation was reacted to yield distilled title product, 9.1 g. bp 134 140 0.3 mm ¹H nmr CDCl₃ delta 5.60 s, 2H , 6.20 m, 1H , 7.10 m, 6H , 7.48 m, 1H , 9.50 s, 1H . SeO₂ 12.4 g., 0.112 mol was dissolved in 75 ml. of 95 ethanol by warming to 55 . SeO₂ 23.18 g., 0.21 mol was dissolved by warming in C₂H₅OH 60 ml. containing H₂O 3.76 g., 0.21 mol . By the method of Preparations 4 to 6, methyl N methylindole 2 carboxylate was converted, 2 N methyl 2 indolyl 2 oxo 1 methylthio ethanol. The latter 31.21 g., 0.13 mol was converted to present title product according to Preparation 7, except that the combined filtrate and CHCl₃ washes was simply washed 1 x 120 ml. saturated NaHCO₃ and 1 x 120 ml. H₂O, dried and stripped to an oil which was chromatographed on silica gel with 4 1 CH₂Cl₂ ethyl acetate as eluant to yield purified hydrate of title product as an oil. On distillation bp 130 0.65 title product was obtained as a solid, 10.5 g. ¹H nmr 4.06 s, 3H , 7.45 m, 5H , 9.57 s, 1H . N Methyl 3 indolyl glyoxal was prepared by the same methods. The hydrate showed ¹H nmr 4.03 s, 3H , 7.28 m, 5H . The hydrate was converted to the anhydrous form by heating at 140 and 1.2mm for 1 hour. It showed ¹H nmr 4.06 s, 3H , 7.45 m, 5H , and 9.57 s, 1H . A solution of benzothiophene 7.11 g., 0.053 mol in 120 ml. dry THF was cooled to 0 . Butyl lithium 35.3 ml. of 1.5M in hexane, 0.053 mol was added dropwise, maintaining 0 5 , and the mixture then warmed to ambient temperature for 1.25 hours, cooled to 75 C. and N dimethoxyacetyl morpholine 10.0 g., 0.053 mol in 50 ml. dry THF added dropwise maintaining 75 to 70 . The reaction was quenched by adding to 300 ml. saturated NH₄Cl and 300 ml. ether. The organic layer was separated, washed with brine, dried over MgSO₄ and stripped to an oil, 14 g., which was distilled to yield purified title product, 8.00 g. bp 137 139 0.25 mm. tlc Rf 0.23 6 1 hexane ethyl acetate , 0.47 2 1 hexane ethyl acetate ¹H nmr 3.6 s, 6H , 5.2 s, 1H , 7.3 7.6 m, 2H , 7.8 8.05 m, 2H , 8.4 s, 1H , tlc Rf 0.31 4 1 hexane ethyl acetate , 0.47 2 1 hexane ethyl acetate . The product of the preceding Example 8.0 g. was heated to 85 for 2 hours in 130 ml. 6N HCl, then cooled, and extracted 2 x 100 ml. ethyl acetate. The organic layers were combined, washed 3 x 100 ml. saturated NaHCO₃ and 1 x 100 ml. brine, dried over MgSO₄ and stripped to yield 7.3 g. of hydrated title product which was dehydrated by heating and melting under high vacuum at 110 C. to yield about 6.5 g. of title product. By the method of Preparation 41, 1 methyl 2 acetylimidazole was converted to present title product. The hydrate 200 mg. was sublimed from a bath at 100 110 C. at 0.2 mm to yield 97 mg. of title product ¹H nmr 4.03 s, 3H , 7.32 s, 1H , 7.63 s, 1H , 10.33 s, 1H , tlc Rf 0.16 2 1 hexane ethyl acetate . 4 Acetyl 2 phenylthiazole 16.9 g., 0.083 mol was dissolved in a mixture of 165 ml. CH₃CO₂H and 65 ml. H₂O by warming to 50 . SeO₂ 19.4 g., 0.175 mol was added and the mixture refluxed for 3 hours, then decolorized with activated carbon, filtered, the filtrate concentrated to an oil, the residue taken up in 600 ml. ethyl acetate, washed 2 x 300 ml. saturated NaHCO₃ and 1 x 300 ml. brine, and stripped to solids crude hydrate , 16.2 g. The latter 6 g. was heated to melting 155 By the method of Preparation 43, 4 iodotoluene 11.5 g, 0.053 mol was converted to distilled title product, 6.05 g. bp 78 80 0.2 mm ¹H nmr 2.45 s, 3H , 3.5 s, 6H , 5.2 s, 1H , 7.2 7.3 d, 2H , 8.0 8.1 d, 2H . By the method of Preparation 44, the product of the preceding Preparation 5.9 g. was converted to title product, 3.8 g., dehydrated by distillation just before use in the next step Example A22 . 4 Acetylbenzoic acid 12.7 g., 0.077 mol was dissolved in 750 ml. methanol. Concentrated H₂SO₄ 1.6 ml. was added and the mixture heated at 70 for 8 hours, cooled, stripped solids, taken up in 400 ml. ether, washed 3 x 150 ml. saturated NaHCO₃ and 1 x 150 ml. brine, dried over MgSO₄ and stripped to yield title product, 12.9 g. tlc Rf 0.46 2 1 hexane ethyl acetate . The product of the preceding Example 12.4 g., 0.070 mol and SeO₂ 19.3 g., 0.174 mol were refluxed about 110 C. in a mixture of 100 ml. dioxane and 14 ml. H₂O for 16.5 hours. The hot solution was filtered over diatomaceous earth and the filtrate stripped to a mushy solid, which was crystallized from 500 ml. hot 3 7 THF H₂O to yield purified title product, 9.06 g. mp 127 131 C. By the method of the preceding Preparation, 4 cyanoacetophenone 15.0 g., 0.103 mol was converted to crude title product. The latter was taken up in hot ethyl acetate, filtered, the filtrate stripped and title product crystallized from hot water saturated with benzene, 13.9 g. 2 Benzyloxy 2 methylpropionic acid 4.4 g., 0.0023 mol was dissolved in 50 ml. of methanol treated with acetyl chloride 1.61 ml., 1.78 g., 0.0023 mol , stirred for 16 hours, stripped to an oil, taken up in 75 ml, ethyl acetate, washed 1 x 50 ml. saturated NaHCO₃ and 1 x 50 ml. brine, dried over MgSO₄ and stripped to yield purified title product as a second oil, 4.22 g. ¹H nmr 1.5 s, 6H , 3.8 s, 3H , 4.5 s, 2H , 7.3 7.5 m, 5H . By the method of Preparation 2, the product of the preceding Preparation 4.2 g., 0.020 mol was converted to present title product as an oil, 5.0 g. ¹H nmr 1.5 s , 2.6 s , 3.9 4.5 q , 4.5 s , 7.3 7.5 s . By the method of Preparation 3, the product of the preceding Preparation 5.0 g., 0.02 mol was converted to present title product 4.0 g. ¹H nmr 300MHz 1.45 s, 3H , 1.65 s, 3H , 1.95 s, 3H , 4.45 4.65 q, 2H , 7.35 m . By the method of Preparation 4, the product of the preceding Preparation 3.5 g., 0.014 mol was converted to the hydrate of title product as an oil 2.7 g. , distilled in Kugelrohr apparatus at 125 4mm to produce 1.5 g. of title product ¹H nmr 300MHz 1.6 s, 6H , 4.5 s, 2H , 7.4 m, 5H , 9.6 s, 1H . By the methods of Preparation 52 to 55, 1 methylcyclohexylcarboxylic acid 30.0 g., 0.211 mol was converted to title product, 12 g. distilled at 125 C. 5mm ¹H nmr 300MHz 9.2 s, 1H , 1.2 s, 3H , 1.2 1.6 m, 10H . Ethyl mercaptan 5.76 ml., 4.83 g., 0.078 mol in 250 ml. THF was cooled to 70 . n Butyllithium 50 ml. of 1.55M in hexane, 0.078 mol was added over 10 minutes at that temperature. The mixture was then allowed to warm to 10 , recooled to 70 , and 1 adamantyl bromomethyl ketone 20 g., 0.078 mol in 125 ml. THF added over. The mixture was stirred 15 minutes at 70 C., stripped to one fifth volume, diluted to 600 ml. with ether, washed 2 x 200 ml. saturated NH₄Cl, 3 x 150 ml. H₂O and 1 x 200 ml. brine, dried over MgSO₄ and stripped to yield title product as an oil, 18.5 g. ¹H nmr 300MHz 1.2 t, 3H , 1.6 2.1 m, 15H , 2.5 q, 2H , 3.35 s, 2H . The product of the preceding Preparation 18 g., 0.078 mol was dissolved in 300 ml. CH₂Cl₂ and cooled to 0 . m Chloroperbenzoic acid 16.2 g., 0.078 mol as added as a slurry in 100 ml. CH₂Cl₂. After stirring 1.5 hours at 0 , the reaction mixture was extracted 1 x 150 ml. saturated NaHCO₃. The aqueous layer was back extracted with 100 ml. fresh CH₂Cl₂. The organic layers were combined, washed 3 x 100 ml. brine, dried over MgSO₄ and stripped to title product as an oil, 19.5 g. ¹H nmr 300MHz 1.3 t, 3H , 1.55 1.80 br m , 2.0 br s , 2.7 m , 3.8 dd . By the method of Preparations 54 55, the product of the preceding Preparation was converted to 1 adamantyl glyoxal hydrate, 16.0 g., oil ¹H nmr 300MHz showed the expected 1 adamantyl peaks, the diffuse OH peaks not being detected. The hydrate 6.0 g. was converted to crystalline title product 4.0 g. by distillation To 4 Bromoacetophenone 50.0 g., 0.25 mol in 500 ml. benzene was added ethylene glycol 21.7 ml., 24.2 g., 0.39 mol followed by BF₃ etherate 3.69 ml., 4.26 g., 0.03 mol . The mixture was heated at reflux with a Dean Stark trap, cooled, washed 1 x 350 ml. saturated NaHCO₃, dried and stripped to yield title product as an oil which crystallized on standing 60.2 g., recrystal lized from pentane chilled in an acetone dry ice bath 43.6 g. ¹H nmr 1.6 s, 3H , 3.75 m, 2H , 4.0 m, 2H , 7.3 d, 2H , 7.45 d, 2H . The product of the preceding Preparation 25 g., 0.103 mol in 550 ml. THF was cooled to 78 . n Butyl lithium 66.5 ml. of 1.55M in hexane, 0.103 mol was added over 45 minutes, maintaining a temperature of 75 to 78 . Excess paraformaldehyde was heated to 175 and gaseous formaldehyde bubbled into the cold reaction mixture by nitrogen sweep. The reaction was monitored by tlc 3 1 hexane ethyl acetate and continued until conversion of starting material Rf 0.59 to product Rf 0.19 was largely complete. The reaction mixture was then quenched with acetic acid 0.103 mol at 78 , warmed to room temperature, diluted with 500 ml. H₂O and 750 ml. ethyl acetate. The organic layer was separated, washed 3 x 600 ml. H₂O, dried over MgSO₄ and stripped to yield intermediate ethylene glycol ketal of title product, 20g. The latter was stirred with 80 ml. 1N HCl for 2.5 hours, stripped to an oil, taken up in 300 ml. ethyl acetate, washed 3 x 150 ml. saturated NaHCO₃ and 1 x 150 ml. brine, dried over MgSO₄, re stripped to an oil 8.0 g. and chromatographed on silica gel with 1 1 hexane ethyl acetate as eluant to yield title product as a white solid 5.46 g. tlc Rf 0.29 1 1 hexane ethyl acetate . To a solution of the product of the preceding Preparation 4.43 g., 0.0295 mol in 55 ml. DMF was added imidazole 4.02 g., 0.059 mol followed by t butyldimethylsilyl chloride 6.67 g., 0.0443 mol . After stirring 3 hours, the reaction mixture was stripped, the residue distributed between 100 ml. each of water and ethyl acetate, the layers separated, and the aqueous layer extracted 1 x 50 ml. fresh ethyl acetate. The organic layers were combined, washed 3 x 50 ml. H₂O and 1 x 50 ml. brine, dried and stripped to yield intermediate 4 t butyltrimethylsiloxymethyl acetophenone as an oil, 7.66 g. The latter and SeO₂ 9.66 g. were heated at 110 in 110 ml. dioxane for 6 hours, filtered over diatomaceous earth, stripped to an oil, taken up in 200 ml. CH₂Cl₂, refiltered and strip ped to yield title product as an oil, 7 g., tlc Rf 0.30 2 1 hexane ethyl acetate . By the methods of Preparation 60, replacing excess formaldehyde with three equivalents of acetone, 4 2 methyl 1,3 dioxol 2 yl phenyl bromide 5.0 g., 0.021 mol was converted to present title product, 2.5 g. oil which crystallized on standing Product of the preceding Preparation 2.0 g., 0.011 mol and SeO₂ 3.1 g., 0.028 mol were combined in 12.5 ml. dioxane and 1.0 ml. H₂O and heated at 100 C. for 4 hours. The mixture was cooled, filtered over diatomaceous earth, the filtrate stripped to an oil, and the oil chromatographed on silica gel with 1 1 hexane ethyl acetate as eluant to yield hydrate of title product as an oil, 1.25 g. The hydrate 1.2 g., was distilled in a Kugelrohr apparatus 130 0.2 mm to yield title product, 1.0 g. ¹H nmr 1.6 1.7 2s, 6H , 7.6 8.1 2d, 4H , 9.6 s, 1H . Methyl 4 acetylbenzoate 20.5 g., Preparation 49 was converted to its ethylene glycol ketal 25.5 g. ¹H nmr 2.65 s, 3H , 3.8 m, 2H , 3.9 s, 3H , 4.1 m, 2H , 7.55 d, 2H , 8.0 d, 2H according to the method of Preparation 60. The ketal 25.5 g., 0.115 mol was reduced in toluene 300 ml. with sodium bis 2 methoxy ethoxy aluminum hydride 40.6 ml. of 3.4M in toluene, 0.138 mol to yield, after H₂O quench, basification with 1N NaOH, extraction into ethyl acetate and strip ping, the intermediate benzyl alcohol, 21.8 g., oil identical with the intermediate of Preparation 61 ¹H nmr 1.6 s, 3H , 2.8 br t, 1H , 3.8 m, 2H , 4.0 m, 2H , 4.7 d, 2H , 7.2 7.6 q, 4H . The alcohol 21.8 g., 0.112 mol and pyridine 9.06 ml., 8.86 g., 0.112 mol were combined in 200 ml. CHCl₃. SOCl₂ 8.20 ml., 13.4 g., 0.112 mol in 60 ml. CHCl₃ was added dropwise over 15 minutes. After stirring for 4 hours, the reaction mixture was stripped, the residue was taken up in 350 ml. ethyl acetate, and pyridine salts removed by filtration. The filtrate was washed 2 x 150 ml. H₂O, 1 x 150 ml. saturated NaHCO₃ and 1 x 150 ml. brine, dried and stripped to yield title product as an oil, 23.0 gl. ¹H nmr 1.6 s, 3H , 3.7 m, 2H , 4.0 m, 2H , 4.55 s, 2H , 7.3 d, 2H , 7.4 d, 2H . According to the methods of Preparations 61 and 64, the product of the preceding Example 22.8 g. was hydrolyzed to the acetophenone 16.5 g. and reacted with SeO₂ to form the hydrate of title product, 9 g., distilled 3 Amino 3 methyl 2 butanone hydrochloride hydrate J. Org. Chem. 49, 1209 1984 10.6 g., 0.076 mol was dissolved in 700 ml. 1 1 THF H₂O and the pH adjusted to 6.8 with dilute NaOH. Benzylchloroformate 11.93 mol., 0.084 ml. was added dropwise, maintaining pH 6.8 7.0 by the simultaneous dropwise addition of dilute NaOH. The pH was so maintained until it stabilized. The reaction mixture was extracted 4 x 100 ml. CHCl₃. The organic extracts were combined, filtered and stripped to yield title product as an oil, 9.26. The entire product of the preceding Example 9.26 g., 0.04 mol was dissolved in 70 ml. dioxane and 8 ml. H₂O. SeO₂ 4.36 g., 0.04 mol was added with stirring and, after 15 minutes heat at 90 for 7 hours, at which time like amount of SeO₂ was added and the stirred mixture heated at 90 for an additional 18 hours. The reaction mixture was cooled, filtered over sand and diatomaceous earth, and the filtrate dried over MgSO₄, stripped, the residue triturated with ethyl acetate. The triturate was stripped and the residue chromatographed on silica gel with 3 2 hexane ethyl acetate as eluant to yield title product as an oil, 4.62 g. ¹H nmr 1.46 s, 6H , 5.02 s, 2H , 5.56 br s, 1H , 7.25 m, 5H , 9.15 s, 1H . By the method of the preceding Preparation, using 3 17 ethyl acetate as eluant on chromatography 4 benzyloxycarbonylamino acetophenone 20 g., 0.074 mol was converted to the hydrate of title product, 18.7 g., as a solid, dehydrated by heating at 140 0.25 torr ¹H nmr 5.17 s, 2H , 7.34 s, 5H , 7.51 d, 2H, J 6Hz , 8.52 d, 2H, J 6Hz , 9.57 s, 1H . Using 1 1 hexane ethyl acetate as eluant, the method of Preparation 68 was employed to convert 3 hydroxyacetophenone 15.0 g., 0.11 mol to present title product, 7.4 g. ¹H nmr DMSO d₆ 7.09 m, 2H , 7.43 m, 3H , 9.75 br m, 1H . 3 Bromoquinoline 3.29 ml., 0.032 mol was dis solved in 300 ml. THF and cooled to 78 . n Butyl lithium 13.6 ml. of 2.5M in hexane, 0.034 ml. was added slowly and the mixture stirred 15 minutes at 75 to 78 . N Dimethoxyacetyl morpholine 5.98 g., 0.032 mol in 10 ml. THF was then added and stirring con tinued for 1.75 hours at the same temperature. The reaction was then quenched into 300 ml. saturated NH₄Cl. The aqueous layer was separated and extracted 4 x 100 ml. ether. The organic layers were combined, dried over MgSO₄, stripped to yield title product, 7.0 g., bp 120 123 0.125 torr. Product of the preceding Preparation 3.17 g., 0.014 mol was heated in 20 ml. 6N HCl at 45 for 3.5 hours, then cooled and extracted 3 x 50 ml. ether and 3 x 50 ml. ethyl acetate. The organic extracts were combined and stripped to yield 1.40 g. of the hydrate of title product ¹H nmr 5.75 t, 1H, J 4Hz , 7.15 d, 2H, J 4Hz , 7.76 t, 1H, J 4Hz , 7.91 t, 1H, J 4Hz , 8.12 d, 1H, J 4Hz , 8.24 d, 1H, J 4Hz , 9.12 s, 1H , 9.45 s, 1H . The anhydrous title product was obtained by heating at 145 0.20 torr. 4 Hydroxyacetophenone 15 g., 0.11 mol was dissolved in 70 ml. dioxane and 8.3 ml. H₂O. SeO₂ 12.2 g., 0.11 mol was added and the mixture heated at 80 for 18 hours, then filtered over diatomaceous earth. The filtrate was stripped, taken up in 150 ml. H₂O, heated on a steam bath, decolorized with activated carbon, cooled to refrigerator temperature, and hydrate of title product recovered by filtration, 5.72 g. Anhydrous title product was obtained by Kugelrohr distillation ¹H nmr 5.97 s, 1H , 6.97 d, 2H, J 6Hz , 8.22 d, 2H, J 6Hz , 9.68 s, 1H . 2 Acetonaphthalene 15 g., 0.088 mol and SeO₂ 9.78 g., 0.088 mol were refluxed at 82 for 14 hours. Fresh SeO₂ 4.89 g., 0.044 mol was added and reflux continued for 18 hours more. The reaction was cooled, filtered over diatomaceous earth, the filtrate reduced to an oil, chromatographed on silica gel with 3 1 hexane ethyl acetate as eluant to yield 5.3 g. of hydrate, and distilled in a Kugelrohr apparatus to yield 3.3 g. of title product as an oil ¹H nmr 7.66 m, 2H , 8.05 m, 4H , 8.91 s, 1H , 9.81 s, 1H .