# Process for preparing unsaturated organic compounds.

## Abstract
A process is provided for obtaining improved yields of un saturated organic compounds, particularly amides, acids and esters, at lower reaction temperatures which comprises react ing a reaction mass comprising sulfuric acid of over 96 strength with cyanohydrin and contacting the reaction mass with organic nitrile, the mole ratio of cyanohydrin nitrile being from 2 1 to 100 1. The mitrile dehydrates the reaction mass, thereby suppressing the formation of undesired by product, and by appropriate choice of the nitrile used, is capable of con verting already formed undesired by product to the desired un saturated organic compound.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A process for obtaining unsaturated organic compounds, which comprises reacting a reaction mass comprising sulfuric acid of over 96 strength and cyanohydrin, in a mole ratio of at least 1 1, and contacting the reaction mass with organic nitrile in a mole ratio of cyanohydrin to nitrile of from 2 1 to 100 1. 2. A process as claimed in claim 1 wherein the nitrile is fed to the reaction mass with the cyanohydrin. 3. A process as claimed in claim 1 wherein the nitrile is added to the reaction mass after contact of the sulfuric acid with the cyanohydrin. 4. A process as claimed in claim 1 wherein the sulfuric acid strength is at least 99 , the cyanohydrin is acetone cyanohydrin, and the nitrile is methacrylonitrile. 5. A process as claimed in claim 4 wherein the mole ratio of acetone cyanohydrin to methacrylonitrile is 10 1 to 50 1, the methacrylontrile is fed to the reaction mass with the acetone cyanohydrin, and the reaction is conducted at a temperature of from 700 to 1600C. 6. A process as claimed in claim 5 wherein the temperature is from 85 to 1300C. 7. A process as claimed in claim 5 wherein the reaction is conducted in a first stage at a temperature of from 80 to 1300C and in a second stage at a temperature of from 900 to 1200C, until conversion of intermediates to methacrylamide is substantially complete. 8. A process as claimed in claim 4 wherein the mole ratio of acetone cyanohydrin to methacrylonitrile is 10 1 to 50 1, the methacrylonitrile is added to the reaction mass after contact between the sulfuric acid and acetone cyanohydrin, and the reaction is conducted at a temperature of from 800 to 130dC. 9. A process as claimed in claim 8 wherein the temperature is from 85 to 1200C. 10. A process as claimed in claim 8 wherein the reaction is conducted in a first stage at a temperature of from 800 to 1300C and in a second stage at a temperature which is lower than that of the first stage and is from 900 to 1200C. 11. A process as claimed in claim 7 or claim 10 wherein an aliphatic alcohol is added to the reaction mass during or following the second stage reaction, whereby an aliphatic ester of methacrylic acid is formed as the principal reaction product. 12. A process as claimed in claim 11 wherein the aliphatic alcohol is methyl alcohol, and the principal reaction product is methyl methacrylate.

## Description
PROCESS FOR PREPARING UNSATURATED ORGANIC COMPOUNDS This invention is concerned with the production of unsaturated organic compounds, for example alpha, beta ethylenically unsaturated amides, acids and esters and especially methacrylamide. Unsaturated organic compounds are commonly produced by treating a ketone cyanohydrin with concentrated sulfuric acid at an elevated temperature to form an unsaturated amide. The amide may be isolated or reacted with water to form the corresponding unsaturated acid, or reacted with water and alcohol to form the correspondin unsaturated ester. Usually, the reaction product mixture containing the unsaturated amide is reacted with an alcohol, or water and an alcohol, to produce the unsaturated acid and ester, respectively. These processes are described in the technical literature, such as U.S. Patents Nos. 2,101,821 2,101,822 and 2,140,469. With the increased emphasis in the chemical process industries on conservation and process economy, attention has been focused on improving yields and reducing energy requirements. Methacrylamide MAM can be produced by heating a mixture of high strength sulfuric acid and acetone cyanohydrin ACN . tEM is produced from the intermediate alpha sulphato isobutyramide SIBAM .The presence of adventitious water in the system results in some of the desired intermediate SIBAM being converted to undesired alpha hydroxyisobutyramide HIBAM . The HIBAM remains as by product unless the reaction temperature is raised to about 1500C, whereupon the HIBAM also converts, at least in part, to MAM. However, the reaction rate of this conversion is low even at the high temperature. Also, operation at the high temperature results in the formation of undesired by products. Water promotes the formation of HIBAM and before this invention it was not considered possible to totally exclude water or to conveniently remove water as it is formed. The presence of water promotes by product HIBAM, which in turn reduces the yield of the desired MAM. The higher temperatures and longer reaction times required to convert the unwanted HIBAM to MAM not only waste energy, but also lead to decomposition and hence lower selectivity. Some reduction of the water content of the reaction mixture has been achieved by employing high strength sulfuric acid or conventional dehydrating agents, but yields of unsaturated products still remain below the desired levels, due to low selectivity. In another route to unsaturated organic compounds, USSR Invention Certificate No. 333,165 published March 21, 1972, teaches the production of methacrylic acid esters by heating a mixture of methacrylonitrile and a minor amount of acetone cyanohydrin with relatively dilute 84 98 sulfuric acid at 200C 1500C. The amount of sulfuric acid is not disclosed, but was probably in large excess since the initial reaction temperature is quite low. The mole ratio of methacrylonitrile to acetone cyanohydrin is very high, of the order of 2 1. Accordingly, the major reaction in the process is the hydration of methacrylonitrile to methacrylamide with dilute sulfuric acid. At the same time most of the acetone cyanohydrin is also converted to methacrylamide.In this prior process, water is a necessary reactant for the formation of the amide, and is intentionally added in the form of dilute sulfuric acid. The mole ratio of water to nitrile is at least 1 1. Applicants have now found that increased yields of unsaturated organic compounds can be obtained from the reaction of high strength sulfuric acid, not intentionally diluted with water, with cyanohydrin, by contacting the reaction mass with organic nitrile in a mole ratio of cyanohydrin to nitrile of from 2 1 to 100 1, preferably 10 1 to 50 1. The amount of nitrile used is related to the amount of water adventitiously present in the system, or to the amount of saturated hydroxyamide, e.g. HIBAM, present. An added advantage is that the reaction temperature may be substantially reduced since the production of saturated hydroxyamide, e.g.HIBAM, can be avoided or any such saturated hydroxyamide produced can be converted into unsaturated organic compound, thereby avoiding the problem of decomposition encountered at higher temperatures while at the same time conserving energy and reducing cost. The present invention enables the yields of unsaturated products to be increased in the reaction of ketone cyanohydrins with sulfuric acid, by reducing the amount of saturated hydroxyamide by product of the reaction. According to the present invention there is provided a process for obtaining improved yields of organic compounds, for example alpha,beta unsaturated amides such as MAM, which comprises reacting sulfuric acid of over 96 strength, preferably about at least 99 strength, with cyanohydrin, in a mole ratio of at least 1 1, and contacting the reaction mass with organic nitrile in a mole ratio of cyanohydrin to nitrile of from 2 1 to 100 1, preferably about 10 1 to about 50 1. The present invention will hereinafter often be described with reference to the production of methacrylamide MAM from acetone cyanohydrin ACN which is a preferred embodiment of the invention.However, it is to be understood that the invention is not to be construed as being limited to this preferred embodiment. The following is a reaction sequence for the production of methacrylamide MAM from acetone cyanohydrin ACN CH3 CH3 CH3 1 H3C C CN H C C CONH H2C C CONH2 OH H2SO4 OSO3H 100 C ACN SIBAM MAM CH3 2 H3C C CN by products H2O OH H2 504 ACN CH3 CH3 3 H3C C CONH2 H2o H H3C C CONH2 OSO 3H H2 SO4 OH SIBAM HIBAM CH3 CH3 4 H3C C CONH H2C C CONH2 H2 0 OH H2 SO4 1500C HIBAM MAM CH3 CH3 5 H2C C CN H2O H2C C CONH2 H SO j 24 MAN MAM CH3 CH3 CH3 6 H3C C CONH2 H2C C CN 2 H2 C C CONH2 OH H SO 24 HIBAM MAN MAM When ACN is reacted with excess sulfuric acid, a mixture of alpha sulfato isobutyramide SIBAM , alphahydroxisobutyramide HIBAM and by products is formed, the composition of the mixture being dependent on the amount of water present. As shown in reactions 1 and 3 above, SIBAM or HIBAM is favored depending on the relative amounts of sulfuric acid and water in the reaction mixture. Since SIBAM can be converted to MAM at a lower temperature about 800C and more selectively than can HIBAM about 1500C , it is evident that the amount of water in the reaction mixture should be reduced as much as possible. In conventional processes this is done by using highly concentrated sulfuric acid, of the order of greater than 98 strength, preferably 99 or higher.Sulfuric acid of 99 strength or higher in this specification is the preferred acid strength. Fuming sulfuric acid is not desirable because it leads to decomposition and thereby reduces yield of useful intermediates and products. Applicants have now found, in accordance with the present invention, that organic nitriles such as methacrylonitrile MAN dehydrate the reaction mixture to form desired MAM, as shown in reaction 5 above, and surprisingly that the nitrile converts HIBAM to MAM at a much faster rate and more selectively than can be achieved by heating HIBAM in sulfuric acid. MAN is the preferred nitrile in the production of MAM from ACN because the nitrile itself is converted to the desired MAM. No separation or other purification operation is required when this nitrile is employed. In contrast to the large excess of nitrile taught in USSR Invention Certificate No. 333,165, the benefits of the present invention are achieved by using excess cyanohydrin and a minor amount of the nitrile.Generally, the cyanohydrin to nitrile mole ratio, may be as low as 2 1, preferably it should be at least 5 1 and may reach as high as 100 1. A more preferred mole ratio is from about 10 1 to about 50 1 for the conversion of ACN to MAM using MAN, and wherein the amount of MAN is sufficient to react with all the water and HIBAM present. Other ratios outside this 10 1 to 50 1 range, but in the broad range of 2 1 to 100 1, may be used depending on reactants and reaction conditions, including temperature and stage of addition of nitrile, and particularly the amount of water in the system. The conversion of ACN to MAM takes place at from about 300C to about 1600C, preferably from about 85 to about 1300C. In fact, the conversion of HIBAM to MAM is higher and faster at lower temperature about 1000C when MAN is present than at higher temperature about 1500C when MAN is absent. Temperatures for conversion of ACN to MAM in the presence of MAN or other nitrile, and similar reactions of the invention, generally will be selected on the basis of good fluidity of the reaction mixture and decomposition temperature, it being desirable that the reaction mixture not be unduly viscous. Reaction temperature will also depend on the stage at which the nitrile is added. If the nitrile is added prior to admixture of cyanohydrin with sulfuric acid, for example if the nitrile is added with the cyanohydrin, the overall reaction temperature will typically be from about 700 to about 1600C, preferably from about 850 to about 1300C. If the nitrile is added after contact between the sulfuric acid and cyanohydrin delayed addition , the reaction temperature during the additions will be at the lower end of the range about 800 to 1200C and thereafter at the higher temperature. The reaction of cyanohydrin, sulfuric acid and nitrile is conveniently conducted with efficient agitation. Preferably, for the production of MAM, the reaction is run at a first stage temperature of from about 800 to about 1300C followed, if required, by a second stage temperature of about 900C to 1200C, to promote conversion of SIBAM to MAM. Reaction times will vary according to the reaction system and generally will range from several minutes to several hours for a single stage or multi stage batch reaction. The reaction may be run continuously or semi continuously with adjustment of contact times and throughput rates in accordance with principles well understood by those skilled in the art. While the foregoing concerns atmospheric pressure reactions, the reaction may also be run at subatmospheric and superatmospheric pressures. The products can be worked up by known techniques such as described in the patents cited above and other technical literature. If desired, polymerization inhibitors, such as a hydroquinone, may be added to the reaction mixture to prevent polymerization. Other cyanohydrins convertible to useful unsaturated products in accordance with the invention include those derived from symmetrical alkyl ketones such as diethyl, dipropyl, dibutyl or diamyl ketones and unsymmetrical ketones such as methyl ethyl, methyl propyl, methyl isopropyl, methyl butyl or methyl nonyl, also aralkyl aryl or ketones such as benzyl ethyl, tolyl ethyl, dibenzyl and the like. Organic nitriles in additon to MAN, useful in the invention, include hydrocyanic acid and saturated and unsaturated aliphatic nitriles such as acrylonitrile, acetonitrile and others, singly or in admixture. In summary, Applicants have found that the use, in accordance with the invention, of organic nitrile, together with reduced water content, can prevent the formation of undesirable intermediates such as HIBAM, or can convert such undesirable intermediates into unsaturated organic compounds. These intermediates are undesirable because they are difficult to convert to useful unsaturated products without undue energy input and processing. The nitriles not only minimize these problems but also, because they can be used in small amounts and permit lower reaction temperatures, lead to better reaction control, higher useful product yields and overall better process economics. The present invention will now be further illustrated by way of the following Examples which are for illustrative purposes only and are not to be construed as imposing any restriction on the scope of the invention. All parts and percentages are by weight and all temperatures are OC. Example 1Illustrates delayed addition of nitrile to increase yield of MAM To a 500 ml three neck round bottom flask fitted with a mechanical stirrer was charged sulfuric acid 99.6 , 59.0g . The flask and contents were heated to 920C. Using a syringe pump, acetone cyanohydrin ACN, 39.4 g, 0.463 moles was added with rapid stirring over a 54 minute period. The contents of the flask were maintained at 940C to 950C during the addition period. At the end of the addition period the contents of the flask were cooled to 800C. Analysis of the reaction mixture showed that it contained 0.302 moles of methacrylamide MAM , 0.0891 moles of alpha sulfato isobutyramide SIBAM , and 0.0861 moles of alphahydroxy isobutyramide HIBAM . Methacrylonitrile MAN, 4.30 g, 0.0642 moles was added to the reaction mixture which was then heated to 1200C and held there for 24 minutes. Analysis indicated 0.447 moles of MAM 84.8 , based on ACN and MAN and 0.0334 moles of HIBAM. Example 2Illustrates addition of nitrile before contact of ACN and sulfuric acid To a 500 ml three neck round bottom flask fitted with a mechanical stirrer was charged sulfuric acid 99.6 , 60.9 g . This flask and contents were heated to 920C. Using a syringe pump, a solution of acetone cyanohydrin 34.0g, 0.400 moles and methacrylonitrile MAN, 3.2g, 0.0477 moles were added with rapid stirring over a 54 minute period. The contents of the flask were maintained at 940C to 950C during the addition period. At the end of the addition, the flask and contents were heated to 1050C and held for 10 minutes, then taken to 1200C and held for 10 minutes.Analysis of the resulting material indicated organic products as follows MAM, 0.355 moles, 79.3 based onACN and MAN methacrylic acid MAA , 0.0087 moles, 1.9 SIBAM, 0.0096 moles, 2.1 and HIBAM, 0.0412 moles, 9.2 . Comparative Example 3 The procedure of Example 2 was repeated twice in all essential respects but with 61.09 g sulfuric acid, 39.31 g 0.461 moles of ACN and no nitrile. Analysis of the reaction mix at the end of the heating period indicated the following as averages of the two runs MAM and MAA, 0.347 moles, 75.2 SIBAM, 0.0159 moles, 3.45 and HIBAM, 0.0846 moles, 18.4 . Example 4 The procedure of Example 2 was repeated in all essential respects but with 61.05 g of sulfuric acid, 2.76 g 0.052 moles of acrylonitrile in place of theMAN , and 36.85 g 0.433 moles of ACN. Analysis of the reaction mix at the end of the heating period indicated MAM and methacrylic acid MAA , 0.360 moles, 83.2 SIBAM, 0.0087 moles, 2 and HIBAM, 0.0359 moles, 8.3 . In comparison to Example 3 the yield of HIBAM by product was reduced from 18.4 to 8.3 and the yield of useful products increased from 75.2 to 83.2 . Example 5 To provide further insight into the effect of nitrile on by products formed in the reactions ofExamples 1 4, the reaction of 2 hydroxyisobutyramide HIBAM with methacrylonitrile MAN in sulfuric acid was studied, as follows. To a reaction vessel was charged 0.210 grams 2.04 mmoles of HIBAM, 0.997 grams 10.2 mmoles of 99.8 sulfuric acid. This mixture was stirred until the HIBAM dissolved. Then to this mixture was added, while stirring, 0.142 grams 2.12 mmoles of methacrylonitrile MAN . After stirring at room temperature for 2 hours, analysis indicated that a major portion 75 mole of the MAN HIBAM mixture converted to a mixture of methacrylamide MAM and 2 sulfatoisobutyramide SIBAM with some 25 mole MAN and HIBAM remaining. Upon further standing at room temperature, more MAM and SIBAM formed at the expense of MAN and HIBAM. Accountabilities on MAN and HIBAM at this point were near 100 percent. The product solution was then heated at 1000C for 30 minutes. Analysis indicated that the new mixture yielded 80 mole MAM with 5 mole SIBAM and 6 mole HIBAM remaining based on total moles originally charged for MAN and HIBAM . The analysis also showed that approximately 9 mole of various unwanted side products compounds that do not convert to MAM upon further heating had formed. Based on other experiments it is believed that half of this decomposition comes from MAN and half from HIBAM and that the SIBAM and HIBAM are produced from originalHIBAM Hence, the yields from HIBAMt lone are 70 mole MAM, 10 mole SIBAM and 12 mole HIBAM.Under identical conditions but without any MAN present in the original reaction solution, HIBAM yields only 46 mole MAM, with 5 mole SIBAM and 38 mole HIBAM remaining, along with 11 mole of decomposition products. The nitrile therefore causes increased yields of desiredMAM by reaction with undesired HIBAM. Example 6 Studies similar to those of Example 5 were made on the reaction of HIBAM with acrylonitrile AN in sulfuric acid. To a reaction vessel was charged 0.215 grams 2.09 mmoles of HIBAM, 0.990 grams 10.1 mmoles of 99.8 H2S04. This mixture was stirred until the HIBAM dissolved. Then to this mixture was added 0.110 grams 2.075 mmoles of acrylontrile AN . After several hours at room temperature analysis indicated that a major portion ca. 90 mole of the HIBAM converted tcSIBAM with some ca. 10 mole t HIBAM remaining, and that approximately 83 mole of the AN converted to acrylamide with significant amount ca. 20 mole of decomposition products i.e., compounds which do not convert to either MAM or acrylamide upon further heating being formed from the AN. Upon heating for one hour at 1000C, analysis indicated that yields fromHIBAM were 91 mole MAM with 1 mole SIBAM and 4 mole HIBAM remaining only 4 mole was lost to decomposition products . In addition, there was now an approximately 70 mole yield of acrylamide from acrylonitrile. Under identical conditions but withoutAN present in the original reaction solution, the yields from HIBAM were 61 mole MAM, 3 mole SIBAM and 25 mole HIBAM with ca. 11 mole 92 decomposition products. Accordingly, the nitrile significantly increases the yields of desirable MAM at the expense of undesired HIBAM.