# Raster distortion correction circuit

## Claims
Kathodenstrahlröhren Abtastsystem mit einem Ablenkjoch, welches Horizontal L

## Description
This invention relates to circuit arrangements for providing electromagnetic deflection of a cathode ray tube beam to develop a scanning raster with reduced distortion occurring in the development of the raster. In a television apparatus having means for electromagnetically deflecting an electron beam in a cathode ray tube CRT , a deflection yoke is positioned about a neck of the CRT. Circuit means cause cyclically varying currents to flow in deflection windings of the yoke. A varying electromagnetic field, which is thereby generated, deflects the electron beam and forms a raster on a target of the cathode ray tube. In general, the raster which is formed is desirably rectangular shaped. However, various types of electron beam scanning distortions can occur and cause the generated raster configuration to deviate from the desired rectangle. One well known form of raster distortion with which the present invention is concerned is so called pincushion distortion, and, particularly, the top and bottom aspect of such distortion. This type of distortion is characterized by a central bowing of the raster scanning lines, the character of the bowing varying from a maximum downward bowing at the raster top through a minimum near the raster middle to a maximum upward bowing at the raster bottom. The bowing is approximately hyperbolically or parabolically shaped. FIGURE 1 illustrates the effect of pincushion distortion, when left uncorrected, on a crosshatch pattern. This distortion results from the physical geometry of the deflection system as determined by such factors as the size and configuration of the target area and the relative position of an electron beam deflection center with respect to the target. A well known solution to the top bottom pincushion distortion problem is to modulate the vertical scanning current with a horizontal rate f Another form of raster distortion with which the present invention is concerned is so called gullwing distortion. This type of distortion is characterized by a multiple bowing or humps of raster scanning lines that are already substantially corrected for pincushion distortion, as illustrated in FIGURE 2. The size of the humps varies in accordance with the type of the CRT used. In one example of a CRT, the size of the humps is at a maximum at an intermediate zone between the center of the screen and the top or between the center of the screen and the bottom. The origin of gullwing distortion is the difference between the beam scanning radius of curvature and the tube faceplate radius of curvature. New, flatter faceplate picture tubes having aspherical faceplate curvatures require correction of such gullwing distortion. A tube of the type having a complex curvature faceplate is described in the following four UK patent applications. In one form of flatter faceplate picture tube, as typified by the RCA 110 COTY SP, square planar, 27V, color television picture tube, A68ACC10X, the formula for the tube faceplate sagittal height, z, in millimeters, with reference to the center of the faceplate is given by The picture tube faceplate defined by this formula has a relatively shallow curvature near the center of the faceplate, which increases near the edges along paths parallel to both the major and minor axes of the tube. The overall result is a faceplate of relatively flat appearance and with planar edges, namely, with points along the top, bottom, right and left edges located substantially in a common plane. The gullwing distortion occurs because of the geometry of the faceplate of the CRT. When a flat face CRT is used, gullwing distortion is noticeable. In flat face picture tubes, the face of the tube is flat near the center and has an increasing radius of curvature near the edges. Multiple radiuses of curvatures cause the corresponding humps that characterize the gullwing distortion. There is disclosed in Philips Application Note 1972, page 162, Electronic Components and Materials Division L. Valkenstijn 110 Colour Television Phase 2, passive north south raster correction , a cathode ray tube scanning system in which a horizontal scanning current and a vertical scanning current are provided, with raster distortion correction means being arranged to modulate the vertical scanning current with a component having a frequency equal to the horizontal scanning frequency for reducing pincushion distortion, and a component having a frequency equal to the second harmonic of the horizontal scanning frequency for reducing moustache distortion. An equivalent arrangement is disclosed in Telefünken Sprecher, No. 68, February 1976, pages 3 32 Total Modulbauweise für bewährte Technik Farbfernsehchassis 712 . The problem with such arrangements is that the control of the desired corrections is not sufficiently accurate. With a view to providing more control over raster correction, the present invention provides a cathode ray tube scanning system including a deflection yoke having respective horizontal and vertical deflection windings, a source of horizontal scanning current, a source of vertical scanning current, and means for coupling said yoke to said first and second sources in such manner that said horizontal scanning current is caused to traverse said horizontal deflection winding and said vertical scanning current is caused to traverse said vertical deflection winding, and a raster distortion correction apparatus for modulating the vertical scanning currents with components having frequencies of the horizontal scanning frequency and a harmonic thereof,characterized by a body of ferromagnetic material arranged in a magnetic circuit configuration having first and second outside body segments and a center segment first and second series coupled primary windings positioned respectively about said first and second outside body segments and coupled in the current path of said horizontal scanning current first and second, output windings positioned about said center segment, and coupled in the current path of said vertical scanning current for developing in each of said first and second output windings a corresponding current in accordance with said horizontal scanning current having an amplitude that varies in accordance with said vertical scanning current a first tuned circuit that is tuned to a harmonic of the horizontal scanning frequency and that is responsive to said corresponding current in said first output winding for producing a first modulating current at the frequency of said harmonic and means for developing from said first modulating current at said harmonic of the horizontal scanning frequency a vertical scanning current modulating voltage. In accordance with a preferred embodiment of the invention, a gullwing distortion correction current at a frequency that is an harmonic of the horizontal frequency f In carrying out the invention, the reactor may comprise , for example, a two window three leg core, with an output winding wound on the center core leg, and with respective halves of an input winding wound on respective different outside core legs. The input winding halves are energized by the same horizontal scanning current but due to their respective poling they tend to drive horizontal rate flux through the center core leg in mutually opposing directions. Thus when their respective flux contributions are matched in amplitude there is complete cancellation of flux variations at the horizontal frequency or its harmonic, in the center core leg, with the result that no energy at the horizontal frequency or its harmonics is transferred to the output winding. However, should their respective flux contributions differ, cancellation in the central core leg will not be complete, with the result that there is effective flux linkage between the output winding and one of the input winding halves. Thus, variations at the horizontal frequency or its harmonics will be transferred to the output winding circuit by simple transformer action, the amplitude of the transferred variations depending upon the degree of difference in flux contributions, and the polarity depending upon which flux contribution is predominant. Dynamic control of the relative horizontal and harmonic flux contributions is afforded by the vertical scanning current itself, which flows through the output winding on the center core leg. During a first portion of the vertical scan cycle, when vertical scanning current is in a first direction, it includes a flux that, in one embodiment 1 opposes a bias flux in a core segment linking the center leg to one outside leg thereby increasing the permeability of this core segment and 2 adds to a bias flux in a core segment linking the central leg to the other outside leg, thereby lowering the permeability of this core segment. The reverse is true during a succeeding portion of the vertical scan cycle when the scanning current reverses direction. Thus, variations of one polarity at the horizontal frequency or its harmonic are transferred to the output winding from one input winding segment with maximum amplitude at a first peak of vertical scanning current. Maximum amplitude transfer of opposite polarity variation at the horizontal frequency or its harmonics, from the other input winding segment, occurs at the succeeding opposite direction peak of vertical scanning current. A polarity crossover occurs intermediate these peaks. A steady decrease in amplitude of the first polarity transfer occurs during approach of the crossover from the first peak, and a steady increase in amplitude of the opposite polarity transfer occurs subsequent to the crossover. The modulated component at the horizontal frequency or its harmonic, thus transferred to the output winding, is of the form appropriate for top and bottom pincushion correction or gullwing correction, respectively. This modulated component is then coupled to the vertical deflection winding. This modulated component is provided for resonating a first resonant circuit that includes the output winding. In an embodiment of the invention, the first resonant circuit is tuned to a harmonic of the fundamental horizontal frequency. Advantageously, a second resonant circuit may be tuned to the horizontal scanning frequency to provide top and bottom pincushion distortion correction. With the first resonant circuit tuned to the harmonic, a readily attainable level of control winding voltage will develop sufficient voltage at the horizontal frequency and its harmonic from the second and first resonant circuits, respectively, to add the requisite horizontal frequency current component and harmonic current component, respectively, to the vertical scanning current in the vertical deflection winding. The horizontal frequency variations introduced by the second resonant circuit will be essentially sinusoidal in shape. Such a shape sufficiently approximates the ideal waveshape to produce an acceptable pincushion correction. Similarly, it should be recognized that the amplitude and waveshape of the variations at the harmonic, introduced by the first resonant circuit, only approximate the ideal amplitude and waveshape that is required for providing gullwing distortion correction. In accordance with an aspect of the invention, a source of vertical scanning current is coupled to a vertical deflection winding and to a control winding of a nonlinear reactor device. A source of horizontal scanning current is coupled to a horizontal deflection winding and to an input winding of the nonlinear reactor device. The nonlinear reactor device includes an output winding. A voltage is produced at the output winding from the horizontal scanning current at the input winding. Such voltage at the output winding is in an amplitude or phase that is in accordance with the vertical scanning current. A current that substantially contains a harmonic of the horizontal scanning frequency is produced from the voltage at the output winding. The vertical scanning current traversing the vertical deflection winding is modulated in accordance with the current that substantially contains the harmonic of the horizontal scanning frequency. In the Drawing In a horizontal deflection circuit 200, illustrated in FIGURE 3, a filtered DC voltage V A horizontal deflection winding L Dynamic S correction circuit 150 includes an inductance L₁₅₀ coupled in parallel with a capacitor C₁₅₀. Inductance L₁₅₀ has an intermediate tap that is coupled to conduct deflection current i In operation, trace switch 87 is conductive during the trace interval. When trace switch 87 is conductive, it isolates transformer 53 from deflection winding L A vertical deflection output stage 57 that generates a vertical rate driving voltage V FIGURE 6 illustrates the waveform of voltage V Voltage V Distortion correction voltage generating circuit 84 includes transformer T1 that is, illustratively, a saturable core transformer having output windings W1 and W2 coupled in series. Distortion correction voltage generating circuit 84 includes a series resonant circuit 84 In accordance with an aspect of the invention, distortion voltage generating circuit 84 also includes a resonant circuit 84 Saturable transformer T1 of FIGURE 3 is illustrated in FIGURE 4. Similar numbers and symbols in FIGURES 3 and 4 indicate similar items or functions. Output windings W1 and W2 are wound on center segment or leg TCC of a core TC. Primary windings W3 and W4 are wound on the outside segments or legs TCB and TCA, respectively, of core TC. A permanent magnet 40 introduces a bias magnetic flux ₁ in the direction shown in FIGURE 4. Substantially all of the vertical deflection current i When vertical deflection current i At one extreme, for example, when the beam is at the top of the raster and vertical deflection current i In contrast, at the extreme bottom of the raster, when vertical deflection current i At points between these extremes, the difference between flux It should be understood that magnet 40 is not essential for creating the nonlinearity of the flux in core TC. Such nonlinearity or differential may be obtained by a judicious selection of core material for core TC. Voltage V In carrying out an aspect of the invention, the sum voltage of voltages V Filtering action by capacitor C4 and inductor L3 produces current i Alignment of distortion correction voltage generating circuit 84 is done, illustratively, by adjusting inductor L4 to obtain maximum amplitude of voltage V FIGURE 8 illustrates another embodiment of the invention. Similar numbers and symbols in FIGURES 3 and 8 indicate similar items or functions. The circuit of FIGURE 8 is similar to that of FIGURE 3 but with the difference that is noted below. In the circuit of FIGURE 8 resonant circuit 84 Transformer T1 windings W1 and W2 of FIGURE 4 have a combined resistance of 3.3 ohms between terminals 12 and 16. Each of windings W3 and W4 has 0.08 ohm resistance. The inductance, at 15750 Hz, between terminals 12 and 16 is 320 microHenry. The inductance between terminals 14 and 17, when terminals 13 and 11 are shorted, is 26 microHenry. The core material of core TC is H3TEi25 made by TDK Co., Japan.