# Three dimensional integration by graphoepitaxy.

## Abstract
The invention relates to a method of making multi level semi conductor devices which include a first level of devices 12 in the surface of a wafer 11 of semi conductor material and a first film 13 of material deposited on the wafer surface. To produce a further level of devices one or more artificial defects 14 are fabricated in the surface of the first film 13 and a second film 15 of semi conductor material is deposited on the artificial defects so that the crystallographic orientation is influenced by the geometric arrangement of the defect or defects. A second level of semi conductor devices 16 can then be fabricated above the first level in the second film 15 .

## Claims
CLAIMS. 1. A method of making multilevel semiconductor devices which includes the steps of forming a first level of devices 12 in the surface of a wafer 11 of semiconductor material, and depositing a first film 13 of material on the wafer surface, characterized in that one or more artificial defects 14 are fabricated in the surface of the first film 13 , and thereafter a secon d film 15 of semiconductor material is deposited on the artificial defect or defects so that its crystallographic orientation is influenced by the defect or defects 14 , and a second level of semiconductor devices 16 are fabricated, above the first level 12 , in the second film 15 . 2. A method according to claim 1, further including conductively interconnecting elements in the first and second levels. 3. A method according to claim 1 or claim 2, further including the steps of depositing a third film of material on the surface of the second film, fabricating a second set of one or more artificial defects in the surface of the third film, depositing a fourth film of semiconductor material on the second set of defects so that its crystallographic orientation is influenced by the second set and fabricating a further level of semiconductor devices, above the second level, in the fourth film. 4. A method according to claim 3, further including the step of conductively interconnecting elements in the first, second and further levels. 5. A method according to any of claims 1 to 4, wherein at least some of the artificial defects comprise point defects. 6. A method according to any of claims 1 to 4, wherein at least some of the artificial defects comrpise surface relief structure. 7. A multiple level semiconductor device made in accordance with the method of any of claims 1 to 6.

## Description
THREE DIMENSIONAL INTEGRATION BY GWHOEPITE. This invention relates to a method of making multilevel semiconductor devices by a graphoepitaxial method. Much modern technology makes use of thin solid films on the surfaces of solid substrates. Epitaxial and preferred orientation films are particularly important, notably in microelectronic devices, thin film optical devices and solar cells. Thus, improved methods of preparing epitaxial and preferred orientation films are of great importance. At present. microelectronic devices, thin film optical devices and solar cells are confined to substantially planar, singlelevel, configurations. The present invention represents an improvement in our previous proposals relating to graphoepitaxy in order to provide multilevel films that are epitaxial or of preferred orientationS thereby enabling fabrication of microelectronic and thin film optical devices and solar cells with the benefits of multiple level configuration. We have previously proposed creating a plurality of artificial defects at predetermined locations at the surface of a solid substrate, to determine, control or influence, by means of the geometric arrangement of the adjacent defects, the crystallographic orientation of a film deposited on the surface. The artificial defects are either 1 artificial point defects or 2 artificial surface relief structure. This method was named graphoepitaxy see Crystallographic Orientation ofSilicon on an Amorphous Substrate Using an ArtificialSurface Relief Grating and Laser Crystallization , byM. W.Geis, D.C.Flanders and H.I.Smith, published inApplied Physics Letters July 1, 1979 , and is derived from the Greek grapho meaning to write or incise and was chosen to convey the principle of using an artificially created surface pattern to induce epitaxy..In a copending application Attorney s reference GJE 5180 064 entitled IMPROVING GRAPHOEPITAXY we teach determining, controlling, or influencing the crystallographic orientation of a film by the geometric arrangement of a single defect. The present invention uses graphoepitaxy to provide films suitable for multilevel devices. According to the present invention a method of making multilevel semiconductor devices which includes the steps of forming a first level of devices in the surface of a wafer of semiconductor material, and depositing a first film of material on the wafer surface, is characterized in that one or more artificial defects are fabricated in the surface of the first film, and thereafter a second film of semiconductor material is deposited on the artific defect or defects so that its crystallographic orientation is influenced by the defect or defects, and a second level of semiconductor devices are fabricated, a ov . C the first level, in the second film. first level, One or more artificial defectsmay be created at the surface of an amorphous or poDycrystalline film which is located on top of a first level of material that contains devices such as microelectronic devices, thin film optical devices, or solar cells or is suitable for containing such devices. The artificial defects are either artificial point defects or artificial surface relief structure, and are employed to determine, control or influence the crystallographic orientation of a film deposited on top of the amorphous or polycrystalline film thus forming a second level of material suitable for devices. The invention also includes adding additional levels of material suitable for devices above the second level using the same basic sequence of steps, and the method may include depositing a third film of material on the surface of the second film, fabricating a second set of one or more artificial defects in the surface of the third film, depositing a fourth film of semiconductor material on the second set of defects so that its crystallographic orientation is influenced by the second set and fabricating a further level of semiconductor devices, above the second level, in the fourth film.An amorphous or polycrystalline film can be deposited over the underlying level, artificial defects either point defects or surface relief structure formed in this film, and a level of material deposited over the artificial defects such that the crystallographic orientation of the material is determined, controlled or influenced by the artificial defects. One example of a device constructed in accordance with the invention will now be described with reference to the accompanying drawing which is a cross sectional diagram of a two level semi conductor device. Referring to the drawing, there is shown a cross sectional diagram of a two level device in which the first level is a conventional silicon wafer 11 in whose surface microelectronic devices 12 are fabricated.The drawing depicts conventional field effect transistors. On top of this first level a film ofSiO2 13 is deposited and at the top surface of this film a relief structure 14 is fabricated using, for example, the methods that we have previously disclosed or as disclosed in the above mentioned copending application. On top of this relief structure, a second level of silicon 15 is deposited in such a way that its crystallographic orientation is determined, controlled or influenced by the geometric arrangement of the artificial surface relief structure 14. The drawing depicts an epitaxial film of silicon 15 as the second level. Conventional field effect transistors 16 are fabricated in this second silicon level, and interconnected both within the second level and, by means of a thru contact 17, into the first level. The techniques just described may be repeated to establish a number of levels, and different types of components may be fabricated in the different levels.For example, it may be advantageous to have one or more lower levels with active devices interconnected to form electronic circuits and one or more upper levels may comprise solar cells that may provide the electrical power for the circuitry below. The ability to stack circuits in different levels and stagger them in planes parallel to the surface of the wafer facilitates short connections between cascaded active and or passive devices that afford the circuit designer numerous advantages in connection with performance and design.