# SELF AND DIOL REACTIVE FORMALDEHYDE FREE CROSSLINKING MONOMERS AND THEIR DERIVED POLYMERS

## Claims
Durch die nachfolgende Formel wiedergegebene Verbindung

## Description
The present invention relates to olefinically unsaturated monomers which can self crosslink or react with hydroxy containing crosslinking agents and can also be incorporated into polymers by free radical addition. Emulsion and solution polymers find wide application as adhesives, binders and coatings. Unfortunately, many of these polymeric materials, especially those prepared predominantly from vinyl acetate, ethylene, vinyl chloride, or their mixtures, show inadequate resistance to water and other solvents in their everyday use. In particular, they experience substantial and unacceptable loss in strength in the presence of solvents such as perchloroethylene, methyl ethyl ketone and toluene. In addition, many of these polymers exhibit deficiencies in adhesion to the substrates on which they are used, for example vinyl acetate, ethylene or vinyl chloride polymers on glass, metal or polyester. These deficiencies are reduced, especially for relatively hydrophilic monomers, by the use of adhesion promoting or crosslinking comonomers and or post added crosslinkers. By far the most successful crosslinking materials are aminoplasts, especially N methylolacrylamide and urea formaldehyde condensates. These materials have met substantial success because they are low in cost, highly compatible with aqueous emulsion systems, rapidly cured under acid catalysis, and substrate reactive in that, for example, they react with the hydroxyl groups of cellulosic materials. These crosslinking materials, however, suffer from two deficiencies 1 the emission of low levels of formaldehyde during cure and subsequent use, and 2 inadequate adhesion to certain substrates, for example, metal, glass and polyester. Many attempts have been made to overcome or minimize the first deficiency, especially after the potential carcinogenicity and irritant properties of formaldehyde became widely recognized. To reduce the level of formaldehyde in emulsion products, the use of O alkylated N methylolacrylamides such as butoxymethylacrylamide or the use of about equimolar ratios of N methylolacrylamide with acrylamide were introduced. These materials did not, however, totally eliminate the presence of formaldehyde. Acrylamide glyoxylic acid condensates and their ethers and esters have been used. These materials have not performed well in applications with vinyl acetate ethylene emulsions, especially on nonwoven cellulosic substrates. The use of amide glutaraldehyde condensates, for example the condensate with acrylamide, has also been attempted. The combination of the reagents, however, gave a complex mixture of uncharacterizable products which did not perform well in textile crosslinking applications. Epoxide functional comonomers such as allyl glycidyl ether, glycidyl meth acrylate or their precursors have also been used. These compounds suffered from high costs, limited shelf stability of the functionalized emulsion polymer and toxicity questions associated with epoxide materials. Other approaches have used esterification chemistry carboxylic acid plus alcohol to give an ester crosslink , but such approaches require a slow and expensive high temperature curing cycle. Post addition of formaldehyde free urea glyoxal condensates including N,N dialkyl 4,5 dihydroxyimidazoles has been used in Japan for fabric treating but such systems are less efficient than formaldehyde containing analogs. The EP A O 002 767 discloses self and diol reactive, formaldehyd free crosslinking monomers, which can be crosslinked under mild conditions with themselves and or other polymer or substrate reactive groups to give binders, adhesives and or coatings. There are provided N olefinically substituted cyclic hemiamidals and hemiamide ketals, and N olefinically substituted dialkyl acetals and ketals which can be incorporated into free radical addition polymers. The resulting polymerized monomers undergo efficient acid catalyzed, thermally activated post crosslinking with themselves or they can react with active hydrogen containing comonomers of the polymers and or with groups on the substrate to which the polymer is applied. The dialkyl acetal and ketal monomers of the invention can be represented by the following general formula I wherein Under acidic conditions those monomers in which R¹ is hydrogen and R² and R³ do not compose an alkylene group afford N olefinically substituted cyclic hemiamidals and hemiamide ketals of the following general formula II wherein R and R⁴ are as defined for the compounds of the above formula I, R² is hydrogen or a C₁ C₄ alkyl or an aryl group, and n is 3 or 4. Whenever reference is made to dialkyl acetals and cyclic hemiamidals, it is understood that dialkyl ketals and cyclic hemiamide ketals, respectively, are included. The N olefinically substituted cyclic hemiamidals and the dialkyl acetal and ketal monomers show especially rapid reactivity and efficient crosslinking with diols such as polyvinyl alcohol. The resulting crosslinked products show excellent solvent and water resistance, low energy cure and good adhesion for application as coatings, binders or adhesives. Foremost they contain no formaldehyde. The two classes of compounds of the invention equilibrate under acid catalysis with open chain aldehydes and ketones and cyclic iminium ions. The species react 1 as normal aminoplasts with a second equivalent of hemiamidal, i.e. self crosslinking 2 with active hydrogen compounds such as alcohols, amides, acids or amines or 3 as aldehydes and ketones with diols, especially 1,2 and 1,3 diols, to give stable acetals and ketals. Covalent attachment of the aldehyde to the nitrogen atom of the molecule prevents loss of aldehyde, for example formaldehyde emissions, and makes possible crosslinking by acetal formation. The dialkyl acetal and ketal monomers of the invention have the following general formula I wherein The olefinic unsaturation of the organic radical R should be capable of forming polymers or oligomers with itself or appropriately chosen comonomers under free radical initiation conditions. Examples of the organic radical R having functionality which renders the nitrogen atom electron deficient are elaborated below. Such radical is capable withdrawing electron density from the nitrogen atom. Preferably R is an olefinically unsaturated acyl radical represented by the formula where R⁵ is a C₂ to C₂₃ olefinically unsaturated organic radical having a polymerizable olefinically unsaturated functionality. Illustrative of olefinically unsaturated organic radicals R are those having the formula R⁵ C O , and more specifically the following formula wherein R can also represent a vinyl sulfonyl group. Preferably, R represents a C₃ C₂₄ alkenoyl radical such oleoyl, linoleoyl, and linolenoyl, particularly an alpha,beta unsaturated C₃ C₁₀ alkenoyl group such as acryloyl, methacryloyl, crotonyl, isocrotonoyl, cinnamoyl, and the like, especially an acryloyl. Thus the olefinic unsaturation can be incorporated into the monomer by organic radicals R , or R R¹ is preferably hydrogen but can be a C₁ C₄ alkyl radical such as methyl, ethyl or butyl. The hydrogen radical is preferred since it permits acid catalyzed intracyclization when n is 3 or 4, especially n 3, forming the respective cyclic hemiamidals. In general formula I, R and R¹ together with the nitrogen atom can be a 3 6 carbon containing α,β unsaturated or alpha methylene substituted lactam. R² and R³ represent hydrogen, C₁ C₄ alkyl groups, such as methyl, ethyl, isopropyl and butyl, or R² and R³ together may represent a C₂ C₄ alkylene group such as ethylene, propylene, or butylene. The alkyl groups are preferred, especially methyl and ethyl. The CH₂ Since the acetal and ketal compounds are preferred, R⁴ is preferably hydrogen or a C₁ C₄ alkyl group such as methyl, ethyl or butyl. The monomer compounds of choice are the dialkyl acetals with R⁴ being hydrogen. The monomer compounds of the invention can be prepared by the well known addition reaction of amines to acid chlorides in the presence of a base to remove HCl according to the following general reaction where R, R¹, R², R³, R⁴ and n are as defined above. For example, a 2 phase reaction involving methylene chloride and aqueous sodium hydroxide can be used. Merely illustrative of numerous acid chlorides which can be used for attaching the respective R group to the respective nitrogen atom are the following which are readily available materials or can be easily synthesized by well known preparative procedures. Another reaction for the preparation of the monomer compounds is the addition of aminoacetal compounds to maleic anhydride in an inert solvent as illustrated by the following Still another route to the acetal and ketal monomers of the invention comprises reaction of an appropriate olefinically unsaturated carboxylic acid with an amino acetal or ketal using dehydrating agents such as SOCl₂ or carbodiimides. The direct reaction of acid and amine is also known, but requires substantially higher temperatures. In the reaction of an alkylamine with alkyl acrylates to give acrylamides, the frequently observed faster Michael addition of the amine to the double bound produces both Michael addition and amide formation, but at higher temperatures the former reaction is reversible, allowing net formation of N alkylacrylamides. The Michael reaction can also be supressed by pre forming reversible alcohol or alkylamine acrylate adducts. The transamination of olefinically unsaturated amides with the appropriate amino acetal or ketal salt at elevated temperatures is another suggested preparative route. The synthesis of acrylamides directly from primary and secondary amines, acetylene and carbon monoxide is known and may prove useful here. The preparation of acrylamides by the Pd catalyzed amidation of vinyl halides with amines and carbon monoxide is also known. The amino acetals or ketals can be prepared readily by standard organic chemistry synthetic procedures. For example which is readily available from hydroformylation of acrylonitrile in alcohol can be hydrogenated to afford Alternatively, acrolein or methyl vinyl ketone can be treated with HCl in alcohol and then with sodium cyanide and the product hydrogenated. The dialkyl acetal or ketal monomer in which R¹ is hydrogen can be cyclized to a hemiamidal or a hemiamide ketal of the invention represented by the general formula II by an acid catalyzed reaction. The reaction medium may be any typical organic solvent including ketones such as acetone and methyl ethyl ketone, alcohols, methylene chloride and tetrahydrofuran. The reaction medium may contain water in amounts from 0 to 100 . Suitable acid catalysts for performing the cyclization reaction include oxalic acid, p toluenesulfonic acid, strong acid ion exchange resins and mineral acids, e.g. HCl and H₂SO₄. Representative of the dialkyl acetal or ketal monomeric compounds of the invention are the following acrylamidobutyraldehyde diethyl acetal ABDA Illustrative of the cyclic hemiamidals which can be prepared from the above precursors in which a hydrogen atom is attached to the nitrogen atom, in other words R¹ in the general formula I represents hydrogen, are the following compounds Suitable copolymerizable monomers include monoolefinically and polyolefinically unsaturated monomers including C₃ C₁₀ alkenoic acids, such as acrylic, methacrylic, crotonic and isocrotonic acids and their esters with C₁ C₁₈ alkanols, such as methanol, ethanol, propanol, butanol and 2 ethylhexyl alcohol alpha,beta unsaturated C₄ C₁₀ alkenedioic acids such as maleic acid, fumaric acid and itaconic acid and their monoesters and diesters with the same C₁ C₁₈ alkanols vinyl halides such as vinyl chloride and vinyl fluoride vinylidene halides such as vinylidene chloride alkenes, such as ethylene, propylene and butadiene styrene, vinyltoluene and other substituted styrenes and nitrogen containing monoolefinically unsaturated monomers, particularly nitriles, amides, N methylol amides, lower alkanoic acid esters of N methylol amides, lower alkyl ethers of N methylol amides and allyl carbamates, such as acrylonitrile, acrylamide, methacrylamide, N methylolacrylamide, N methylol methacrylamide, N methylol allyl carbamate and N methylol lower alkyl ethers and N methylol lower alkanoic acid esters of N methylolacrylamide, N methylol methacrylamide and N methylol allyl carbamate vinyl esters of C₁ C₁₈ alkanoic acids, such as vinyl formate, vinyl propionate, vinyl laurate and especially vinyl acetate vinyl ethers, such as methyl vinyl ether and isobutyl vinyl ether and vinylamides such as N vinyl pyrrolidone, N vinylacetamide and N vinylformamide. The cyclic hemiamidal and hemiamide ketal monomers and the dialkyl acetal and ketal monomers can be homopolymerized, copolymerized with each other or copolymerized with at least one of the above copolymerizable monomers by solution or aqueous emulsion polymerization techniques well known in the art. Such polymerization techniques are described in such chemistry texts as The monomers in the polymerization recipe can be added all at once or metered into the polymerization reaction medium incrementally in an intermittent or continuous, preferably uniform, addition rate or any combination thereof in order to take advantage of the various polymerization reactivities of the various monomers. Catalytically effective amounts of various free radical forming materials can be used in carrying out the polymerization of the monomers, such as peroxide compounds like peracetic acid, benzoyl peroxide, and persulfate salt and azo compounds. Combination type systems employing both reducing agents and oxidizing agents can also be used, i.e. a redox system. Suitable reducing agents, or activators include bisulfites, sulfoxylates, or other compounds having reducing properties such as ascorbic acid, erythorbic acid and other reducing sugars. The oxidizing agents include hydrogen peroxide, organic peroxides such as t butyl hydroperoxide and the like, persulfates, such as ammonium or potassium persulfate, and the like. Specific redox systems which can be used include hydrogen peroxide and zinc formaldehyde sulfoxylate t butylhydroperoxide and erythorbic acid hydrogen peroxide, ammonium persulfate, potassium persulfate or t butyl hydroperoxide with sodium metabisulfite, sodium bisulfite, ferrous sulfate, zinc formaldehyde sulfoxylate, sodium formaldehyde sulfoxylate or sodium acetone bisulfite. Other free radical forming systems that are well known in the art can also be used to polymerize the monomers. The oxidizing agent is generally employed in an amount of 0.01 to 1 , preferably 0.05 to 0.5 based on the weight of the monomers introduced into the polymerization system. The reducing agent is ordinarily added dissolved in an appropriate solvent in the necessary equivalent amount. With regard to aqueous emulsion polymerization techniques, again any of the well known emulsifying agents can be used, such emulsifying agents include ionic and nonionic surfactants such as sodium lauryl sulfate, sodium sulfosuccinate esters and amides, sulfonated alkyl benzenes, alkylphenoxy polyethoxy ethanols and other polyoxyethylene condensates. The concentration range of the total amount of emulsifying agents useful is from less than 0.5 to 5 based on the aqueous phase of the emulsion regardless of a solids content. Where necessary to maintain the pH of the aqueous emulsion reaction medium, typical buffering systems can be employed. In addition to or in place of the surfactants, protective colloids such as polyvinyl alcohol and celluloses like hydroxyethyl cellulose, methyl cellulose, hydroxypropyl methyl cellulose and the like can be used as the emulsifying, or stabilizing, agent. The cyclic hemiamidals and dialkyl acetal and ketal monomers of the invention are a more general case of which normal amide aldehyde adducts are a specialized example. Regarding the prior art technology, the product copolymers of N methylolacrylamide NMA , which is a condensate of acrylamide and formaldehyde, 1 crosslink efficiently under acid catalysis via methylol or methylene coupling, 2 react well with substrates containing active hydrogen, e.g. cellulose and 3 are low in cost. However, the formaldehyde is only weakly bound to the amide group of NMA and both the initial and cured product can give off low but measurable levels of formaldehyde, a suspect as a cancer causing agent. Substitution of other aldehydes or ketones usually exacerbates this problem, as their equilibria shift towards starting materials even more than formaldehyde containing systems do. The compounds of this invention circumvent this problem by attaching the aldehyde or ketone to the nitrogen amide portion of the molecule via a covalent chain. Especially when this chain is of an appropriate length to give a 5 or 6 membered ring with the nitrogen atom, the equilibria strongly favor the cyclized material. With or without a favorable equilibrium, the aldehyde cannot be lost to the solution or the atmosphere. A practical example of this concept is shown. Here the aldehyde is protected as its dialkyl acetal. As demonstrated by the data and some model experiments described in the experimental section, these compounds interconvert under acid catalysis and can usually be used interchangeably in polymer and other applications. To a first approximation, the cyclized form undergoes the same self crosslinking and coupling with active hydrogen containing compounds as observed with NMA. Unlike NMA and other aldehyde based aminoplasts, both the dialkyl blocked aldehyde and ketone monomers and the cyclic hemiamidal and hemiamideketal forms also contain a covalently bound blocked aldehyde or ketone which can react effectively with 1,2 and 1,3 diols, such as ethylene glycol, 1,2 and 1,3 propylene glycol, 1,2 and 1,3 butylene glycol, 2,4 pentanediol and the like a feature particularly useful in reactions with polyvinyl alcohol which is 30 to 100 hydrolyzed or cellulose and cellulose derivatives such as methyl cellulose, hydroxyethyl cellulose, hydroxypropyl cellulose and the like or for adhesion to metal oxide and other surfaces. Obviously, no formaldehyde is involved in the synthesis or decomposition of these compounds. The reaction of the dialkyl acetal ketal monomers and the cyclic hemiamidal hemiamide ketal monomers with active hydrogen containing compounds and substrates, such as the 1,2 and 1,3 diols, polyvinyl alcohol, cellulose and metal oxide surfaces, can be catalyzed using acidic materials such as mineral acids, like hydrogen chloride, or organic acids, like oxalic acid or acid salts such as ammonium chloride as is well known in the art of acetal and ketal formation and reaction. The efficacy of these compounds in achieving lower energy cure than standard aminoplasts is not completely understood at this time. The reactivity of these materials may simply be due to the fact that the intermediate N acyliminium ion in the reaction from cyclohemiamidal to crosslinked or substrate bound product is stabilized relative to the unsubstituted acyliminium species formed with formaldehyde based aminoplasts. In the presence of 1,2 or 1,3 diols the thermodynamically favored formation of cyclic acetals may provide a cure accelerating mechanism. Most previous attempts to solve this problem of formaldehyde liberation have not used aminoplasts in which the aldehyde is bound via a covalent linkage to the nitrogen atom, for example amide portion of the aminoplast molecule. This difference existing in the monomers of the invention produces a number of beneficial results Contemplated as the functional equivalent of 1,2 and 1,3 diols for the purpose of this invention are 1,2 and 1,3 amine alcohols and diamines. In addition, the ability to prepare enamides through loss of HOR² from cyclic hemiamidals may prove important in crosslinking applications. The dialkyl acetal ketal and cyclic hemiamidal hemiamide ketal monomers of the invention and their derived polymers are suitable for use as crosslinkers and adhesion promoting agents in paints and other coatings, adhesives for glass, wood, paper, metal, ceramics and other substrates formaldehyde free binders for nonwoven products, medical surgical applications, diaper cover stock, wipes, towels, apparel, carpeting, fabrics, filtration products and home furnishings. They may also be useful as co reagents to reduce formaldehyde and or improve adhesion and other performance factors when used with standard aminoplasts and phenoplasts. The polymers derived from the dialkyl acetal ketal monomers and cyclic hemiamidal hemiamide ketal monomers of the invention are useful as binder compositions in the preparation of nonwoven products, or fabrics, by a variety of methods known to the art which, in general, involve the impregnation of a loosely assembled mass of fibers with the copolymer binder emulsion, followed by moderate heating to dry the mass. This moderate heating also usually serves to cure the binder by forming a crosslinked interpolymer. Before the binder is applied it is, of course, mixed with a suitable catalyst for the crosslinking monomer. For example, an acid catalyst such as mineral acids, e.g. hydrogen chloride, or organic acids, e.g. p toluenesulfonic acid, or acid salts such as ammonium chloride, are suitably used as is known in the art. The amount of catalyst is generally about 0.5 to 2 of the total resin. It has been discovered with respect to the binder polymers prepared using the monomers of the invention that simple amine acid salts, such as ammonium chloride, ammonium acetate and methyl ammonium chloride are surprisingly the preferred catalysts for crosslinking. The starting fiber layer or mass can be formed by any one of the conventional techniques for depositing or arranging fibers in a web or layer. These techniques include carding, garnetting, air laying and the like. Individual webs or thin layers formed by one or more of these techniques can also be laminated to provide a thicker layer for conversion into a fabric. Typically, the fibers extend in a plurality of diverse directions in general alignment with the major plane of the fabric, overlapping, intersecting and supporting one another to form an open, porous structure. When reference is made to cellulose fibers, those fibers containing predominantly C₆H₁₀O₅ groupings are meant. Thus, examples of the fibers to be used in the starting layer are the natural cellulose fibers such as wood pulp, cotton and hemp and the synthetic cellulose fibers such as rayon, and regenerated cellulose. Often the fiber starting layer contains at least 50 cellulose fibers whether they be natural or synthetic, or a combination thereof. Often the fibers in the starting layer may comprise the natural fibers such as wool, jute artificial fibers such as cellulose acetate synthetic fibers such as cellulose acetate, polyvinyl alcohol, polyamides, nylon, polyester, acrylics, polyolefins, i.e. polyethylene, polyvinyl chloride, polyurethane, and the like, alone or in combination with one another. The fiber starting layer is subjected to at least one of the several types of bonding operations to anchor the individual fibers together to form a self sustaining web. Some of the better known methods of bonding are overall impregnation, or printing the web with intermittent or continuous straight or wavy lines or areas of binder extending generally transversely or diagonally across the web and additionally, if desired, along the web. The amount of binder, calculated on a dry basis, applied to the fibrous starting web is that amount which is at least sufficient to bind the fibers together to form a self sustaining web and suitably ranges from about 3 to about 100 or more by weight of the starting web, preferably from about 10 to about 50 wt of the starting web. The impregnated web is then dried and cured. Thus the fabric is suitably dried by passing it through an air oven or the like and then through a curing oven. Typical laboratory conditions to achieve optimal cross linking are sufficient time and temperature such as drying at 150 200 F 66 93 C for 4 to 6 minutes, followed by curing at 300 310 F 149 154 C for 3 to 5 minutes or more. However, other time temperature relationships can be employed as is well known in the art, shorter times at higher temperatures or longer times at lower temperatures being used. The monomers of the invention may also be useful as reactive diluents in coating compositions in which the aldehyde cyclic hemiamidal moiety reacts first and the double bonds are reacted later by free radical or nucleophilic attack. In addition, the compounds may be useful for modifying or functionalizing polyvinyl alcohol, cellulosics wood, paper, rayon, cotton , starch or sugars through formation of cyclic acetals with 1,2 or 1,3 diols. The following examples are illustrative of the invention and are not intended to limit the scope thereof. 4 Aminobutyraldehyde diethyl acetal AmBDA, 75 g, 1.09 mol, Aldrich Chemical was combined with a two phase mixture of 955 mL of CH₂Cl₂ and 160 mL of 14 N NaOH in a 3 neck flask equipped with a thermometer and an efficient mechanical stirrer. This was cooled to 15 C with an ice bath. Acryloyl chloride 98.3 g, 1.09 mol, Aldrich was added via an addition funnel at a rate slow enough to maintain the reaction temperature below 30 C. Reaction monitoring by capillary glpc revealed essentially complete AmBDA consumption when the acryloyl chloride addition was complete. Agitation was continued for 1 h. The layers were separated water may be added to dissolve precipitated salt and improve phase separation and the organic phase was washed with saturated brine. The brine was combined with the aqueous layer and back extracted with CH₂Cl₂. The combined organic layers were neutralized with saturated aqueous NaH₂PO₄, dried over anhydrous MgCl₂ and concentrated on a rotary evaporator at 40 C to give 99 pure ABDA by glpc in 87 yield. The product can be freed of any high molecular weight by products by kugelrohr distillation 120 125 C at 267 Pa 0.2 torr , but this produces significant yield losses and partial isomerization to N acryloyl 5 ethoxy pyrrolidine AEP and related products. The pot temperature should not exceed 60 C during these operations. The yield loses are minimized by adding a basic reagent, such as Na₂CO₃, and a radical inhibitor, such as methylene blue, to the distillation vessel. AmBDA 125 g, 0.78 mol was mixed as above with 835 mL of CH₂Cl₂ and 124 mL of 14 N NaOH. After cooling the mixture to 18 C, acryloyl chloride 70 g, 0.78 mol was added with efficient stirring to maintain the reaction temperature below 30 C approximately one h . Shortly after acid chloride addition was completed, the AmBDA was observed by glpc to be consumed, producing 97 pure ABDA. Without an additional reaction period, the combined layers were neutralized to pH 7.4 with concentrated H₂SO₄ and separated. The organic layer was dried with MgSO₄ and an aliquot was extracted with H₂O to give a pH of 4.2, indicating hydrolysis or reaction of a low residual level of acryloyl chloride to generate HCl. The organic layer was again neutralized to pH 7.2 with alcoholic KOH and concentrated on a rotary evaporator to yield 108 g of light yellow liquid, 89 AEP 83.4 yield and 2 ABDA. MEHQ 1000 ppm was added as an inhibitor. A 40 g sample of ABDA analyzing as 70.1 ABDA and 23.9 AEP was mixed with 400 mL of 3 1 CH₂Cl₂ EtOH and 10 g of strong acid macroreticular ion exchange resin Rohm and Haas XN 1010 . The mixture was stirred at room temperature and analyzed hourly by capillary glpc. Peak ratios were 83.2 AEP and 11.1 ABDA after 1 h, and 87.0 AEP, 7.8 ABDA after 2 h and at 3 h. The resin was filtered off and the solvent removed. Kugelrohr distillation after neutralization pH 6.4 with KOH EtOH gave 28.7 g of product 90 96 C, 20 Pa 0.15 torr containing 92 AEP 77.5 yield based on ABDA conversion . ADBC 2 g was added to 20 mL of CH₂Cl₂ and anhydrous HCl was bubbled through the mixture for 5 min. The solution was heated to 38 C for 1.5 h. The sample was washed with H₂O and the aqueous phase was back extracted with CH₂Cl₂. The combined organics were dried with MgSO₄ and concentrated to yield 1.33 g of yellow liquid. This sample 0.75 g was submitted to preparative thin layer chromatography on silica gel 3 1 Et₂O hexane to yield 5 spots by UV rf 0.58 30 mg , 0.49 145 mg , 0.41 135 mg , 0.26 129 mg , origin 26 mg . The remainder also gave 107 mg of mixed fractions. The second and third fractions were largely the desired O allyl carbamate of 2 ethoxypyrrolidine The remaining fractions were largely the O allyl carbamate of 2 hydroxy pyrrolidine Maleic anhydride 85 g in 1300 mL of CH₂Cl₂ was cooled to 15 C and treated with 155 g of 4 aminobutyraldehyde diethyl acetal AmBDA . Other preparations used the reverse mode of addition with similar results. Fifteen min after the addition was complete no further AmBDA was detected by glpc. The solvent was removed under reduced pressure maintained at 26.7 Pa 0.2 torr for 2 h to assure completion to give 230 g of slightly orange colored thick oil. On standing for several months at 0 C, this material solidified to an off white solid. This reaction followed the procedure of Example 1, but using 50 g 0.31 mol of AmBDA, 24.3 g 0.31 mol of acetyl chloride, 330 mL of CH₂Cl₂ and 50 mL of 14 N NaOH. Thirty min after the acid chloride addition was completed the reaction was adjusted to pH 7.7 with 30 H₂SO₄ and solid CO₂ was added to give a pH of 6.4. The separated aqueous layer was extracted with CH₂Cl₂ and the combined organic layers were washed with brine, dried with anhydrous MgSO₄ and concentrated to give 69 g of pale yellow liquid. This sample plus 1000 ppm of MEHQ and 0.6 g of copper bronze were distilled on a kugelrohr apparatus 120 C, 2.7 Pa , 0.02 torr to give 45 g of colorless oil 65 yield . Acetamidobutyraldehyde diethyl acetal 25 g, 0.123 mol was slowly added to 4.7 g 0.123 mol of lithium tetrahydridoaluminum in 150 mL of dry THF at reflux. After 1 h the excess LiAlH₄ was destroyed by adding EtOAc and the reaction was treated with 1 2 mL of saturated aqueous Na₂SO₄. The green gelatinous mixture was vacuum filtered and the organic phase was concentrated on a rotary evaporator. The inorganic phase was extracted with EtOAc and again with THF and the combined concentrated organic phases were distilled on a kugelrohr apparatus 105 130 C at 26.7 Pa 0.2 torr to yield 9.26 g of yellow liquid. Capillary gc analysis and nmr revealed the mixture to be 75 4 aminoethyl butyraldehyde diethyl acetal 30 yield . 4 Aminoethyl butyraldehyde diethyl acetal 8.5 g, 0.045 mol in 56 mL of CH₂Cl₂ was rapidly stirred with 8 mL of 14 N NaOH at 20 C. Acryloyl chloride 3 g, 0.045 mol was added slowly to maintain the temperature below 30 C. GC analysis at 30 min showed no remaining starting material and a new product at 8.65 min. The mixture was neutralized with 30 H₂SO₄ and buffered with solid CO₂. The organic phase was concentrated and distilled kugelrohr to give 6.5 g of yellow liquid 100 125 C 20 Pa 0.15 torr . GC analysis showed 82 of the 8.65 min peak 53 yield plus 4 minor components. Three analogs of N acryloyl 5 ethoxy pyrrolidine AEP were prepared similarly to Examples 2 and 3 using the appropriate alcohol or water according to the following reaction scheme AHP R H N acryloyl 5 hydroxypyrrolidine The following additional dialkyl acetal monomers were prepared Most gas chromatographic analyses were done on a Hewlett Packard 5380 gas chromatograph using a 12.8m 42 ft and a 12 m OV 101 capillary column, split ratio 200 1, column flow approximately 1 ml min and using the following programs A few runs were also done on a 30 m wide bore DB 5 60 1 split ratio or a 30 m DB 17 column. A 3.785ℓ 1 gal reactor was charged with 42.8 g of vinyl acetate, 14.3 g of Igepal A 2 L reactor was charged with 300 g of a 20 aqueous solution of PVOH Vinol A 2 L reactor was charged with 300 g of a 20 aqueous solution of Vinol A 2 L reactor was charged with 300 g of a 20 aqueous solution of Vinol A 2 L reactor was charged with 30 g of vinyl acetate, 200 g of a 2 aqueous solution of Natrosol A 3.785L 1 gal reactor was charged with 1520 g of a 10 aqueous solution of Vinol Vinyl acetate 1130g was added at 3.8 mL min and 394 g of a 20 aqueous solution of ABDA with 2.0 g of Igepal A 3.785L 1 gal reactor was charged with 1,414g of a 10 aqueous solution of Vinol A 1 gal reactor was charged with 42.8 g of vinyl acetate, 14.3 g of Igepal The polymerization was carried out in a 3.785L 1 gal pressure vessel equipped with a jacket and an agitation system involving turbine blades. In preparing the copolymer emulsion the following initial charge was introduced into the reaction vessel The pH of the above charge was adjusted between 4.0 and 4.5 with acetic acid. The vessel contents were agitated at 200 rpm and purged three times with ethylene 0.27MPa 25 psig . Vinyl chloride monomer 240 g was then added and the reactor was heated to 55 C and pressurized with ethylene 6.1MPa 875 psig . The agitation was increased to 900 rpm and 7 mL of a 10 aqueous solution of erythorbic acid pH 4.5 was pumped into the reactor. After the temperature and pressure had equilibrated, the polymerization was initiated with a 1 aqueous hydrogen peroxide solution. After the heat of polymerization output rate began to decrease, the remaining vinyl chloride monomer 1,415 g and 105 g of a 20 aqueous solution of ABDA plus 1 g of Igepal The emulsion was transferred to a degasser and the unreacted vinyl chloride monomer reduced to less than 10 ppm by the addition of vinyl acetate 15 g followed by t butyl hydroperoxide 4 g and erythorbic acid 3 g , ferrous ammonium sulfate 0.2 g and sequestrine 30A 0.8 g in water 50 g . The vinyl chloride ethylene copolymer was 76 wt. vinyl chloride, 17.4 wt. ethylene, 0.96 ABDA and had a Tg of 18.5 C. Emulsion solids were 52 , η 0.41 soluble portion . An atomspheric emulsion polymerization was performed in a 1 L resin kettle outfitted with a double propeller agitator and reflux condenser as follows 319 g H₂O 344 g vinyl acetate 0.628 g SFS 0.25 g t BHP A 2L reactor was charged with 30 g of vinyl acetate, 200 g of a 2 aqueous solution of Natrosol 205GR, 3.08 g of Igepal CO 887, 2.16 of Igepal CO 630, 2.16 g of Pluronic F 68, 2.16 g of Pluronic L 64, and 272 g of deionized water and purged for 45 min with nitrogen. The kettle was heated to 55 C and the reaction initiated by adding two solutions one a 2.5 aqueous solution of hydrogen peroxide and the other a 2.5 aqueous solution of ascorbic acid at a rate of 0.34 mL min. Upon initiation, the activator and catalyst additions were slowed to 5.5 mL h and a solution of 30 g of ABDA in 240 g of vinyl acetate was added at 2.15 mL min. The reaction was maintained at a temperature of 55 C and a free monomer of 1.4 . The reaction was complete in 1.5 h. A 2L reactor was charged with 542g of deionized water, 0.37 g of Natrosol A 2 L rector was charged with 542 g of deionized water, 0.37 g of Natrosol A 2 L reactor was charged with 542 g of deionized water, 0.37 g of Natrosol This reaction was performed as in Example 25 except that when the first monomer delay was completed, a solution comprised of 82.6 g of the initial monomer delay and 20 g of ABDA was added at the same rate, followed by 9.5 g of pure ABDA. Fifteen min after all of the delays had been added, a solution of 0.5 g of TBHP 70 in 1.5 g of deionized water was added. Reaction was complete within 30 min. A 2 L reactor was charged with 752 g of deionized water and 48 g of Triton A 2 L reactor was charged with 468 g of deionized water, 3.08 g of Igepal This reaction was a repeat of Example 25 except that the first monomer delay employed only 40 g of butyl acrylate. When the first delay was completed, a solution comprised of 79.4 g of the initial monomer delay and 15 g of ABDA was added at the same rate, followed by 16 g of butyl acrylate. Fifteen min after all the delays had finished, a solution of 0.5 g of TBHP 70 in 1.5 g of deionized water was added. The reaction was complete within 30 min. Polymer films were cast on Mylar film at 25 solids with various post additives. The films were air dried 16 48 h then cured for 3 and 10 min at 150 C. A convected oven oven 1 was used unless otherwise indicated. Oven 2 was not convected. Small samples 50 100 mg of film were weighed, soaked in dimethylformamide DMF for 1 h, briefly pat dried and reweighed in an A1 weighing pan. The samples were then redried at 150 C 2666 Pa 20 torr or 170 C, 1 atm for 30 min. See Table 1A for additional vinyl acetate ethylene copolymer emulsions prepared generally following the procedure of Example 13. Table 1B gives additional vinyl acetate butyl acrylate copolymer emulsions prepared generally following the procedure of Example 22. Table 2 provides vinyl acetate copolymer emulsions prepared generally following the procedure of Examples 23 or 24. Tables 1A, 1B and 2 also include swell index and percent solubles data which show that copolymers incorporating the acetal and hemiamidal copolymers of the invention can be cross linked. Table 3 sets forth solution polymerization data. Examples 47 61 were prepared by the following method All of the solution polymerizations were run with 0.297 mmol comonomer per calculated g of polymer solids premixed with the other monomer s . X g comonomer In all but Example 48, additional 10 mg amounts of AIBN were added at random times to keep the reaction going. The temperature was also increased to 75 C when the reaction rate decreased. Most of the reactions took longer than 24 hours, with Example 61 taking 107 hours. The reactions were terminated when the free monomer fell below 0.7 . Example 58 was run half scale. In Examples 62 77 polymers containing copolymerized acetal and hemiamidal monomers of the invention were applied as binder emulsions on Whatman paper at 10 binder solids add on. Ammonium chloride was added as a curing catalyst at 1 on solids and the impregnated paper was dried and cured at 150 C for 3 minutes. Table 4 shows the tensile strength values for the bonded paper. A 105 Airflex 105 vinyl acetate ethylene copolymer emulsion AEP 50g was mixed with 100g of isopropanol, 0.3g of tetradecane as internal standard and 50 mg of azobisisobutyronitrile AIBN and heated at 67 C under nitrogen. Gas chromatographic analysis showed 53 conversion after 4h and 99.7 after 23h. The product was a viscous solution, 67 solids due to isopropanol evaporation . A mixture of 25g each of butyl acrylate with AEP, 100g of isopropanol, 0.3g of tetradecane and 50 mg of AIBN was reacted as in Example 78. GC monitoring showed similar reactivity for the two monomers with 99 and 99.4 conversion respectively after overnight heating. A 2L reactor was charged with 590g of deionized water, 26.7g of Steol Same as Example 80 except DEBC was used instead of ABDA, and initiation required 2.5 min. The invention provides self and diol reactive, formaldehyde free crosslinking monomers and their derived polymers suitable as binders for nonwoven products.