# Dipeptide derivatives of fatty acids, process for preparing them, pharmaceutical composition and use.

## Abstract
A novel compound that exhibits inhibitory activity against prolyl endopeptidase and a method for chemical synthesis of said compound, as well as its use as a prolyl endopeptidase inhibitor and an anti amnesic agent that contains said compound as the active ingredient are provided.

## Claims
1. A dipeptide derivative of fatty acid of formula I wherein m is a number of 0, 1 or 2 n is a number of 0 to 12 R₁ is a saturated or unsaturated unbranched hydrocarbon group having 5 to 25 carbon atoms the unsaturated carbon chain may include a plurality of double bonds R₃ is a lower alkylester group of the formula COOR₄ wherein R₄ is a lower alkyl group or hydroxymethyl group or formyl group R₂ represents, when n is 0, an unbranched or branched alkyl group having 1 to 5 carbon atoms, whereas, when n is an integer of 1 to 12, R₂ is methyl group, phenyl group, hydroxyphenyl group, carboxyl group, formyl group, amino group, hydroxyl group or methylthio group these groups may be substituted R₅ is hydrogen atom, or when n is 3, R₂ and R₅ together may represent a single bond between carbon atom and nitrogen atom .

## Description
The present invention relates to a novel compound that exhibits enzyme inhibiting activity against prolyl endopeptidase EC, 3.4.21.26 . The invention also relates to a method for chemical synthesis of such novel compounds, as well as its use as a prolyl endopeptidase activity inhibitor and a drug, especially an anti amnesic agent, that contains it as the active ingredient. Prolyl endopeptidase is known to inactivate neurotransmitters such as Substance P, thyrotropin releasing hormone TRH and neurotensin, or vasopressin speculatively associated with memory. Tsuru and Yoshimoto of the Department of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Nagasaki Unversity, found that compounds capable of inhibiting the prolyl endopeptidase activity were effective for preventing experimental amnesia caused in rats by scopolamine. Based on this discovery, they suggested the potential use of prolyl endopeptidase activity inhibitors as anti amnesic agents. Motivated by the report of Tsuru and Yoshimoto, the present inventors made various efforts to find novel compounds that exhibited strong inhibiting activity against prolyl endopeptidase as well as anti amnesic activity and which yet had satisfactorily low toxicity levels. As a result, the inventors have synthesized compounds which are close to natural substances by a combination of fatty acids, which enjoy a high safety level as natural compounds, and amino acids or peptide compounds, and found that novel compounds with anti prolyl endopeptidase activity and having the general formula I shown below exhibited excellent effects against amnesia. The present invention has been accomplished on the basis of this finding. The dipeptide derivative of fatty acid of the present invention is represented y the general formula I In formula I , when n represents an integer of 1 or more, it is preferably 1 to 12, more preferably 1 to 6. The compounds of formula I in which R₂ and R₅ together form a single bond between carbon atom and nitrogen atom have the formula Ib The compounds of formula I differ greatly from the known piracetam derivative based anti amnesic agents in that the former contains a proline residue and an unbranched fatty acid chain. Because they are amino acid or peptide derivatives, the compounds of formula I present extremely low toxicity levels in organisms. The following compounds of formula I are particularly preferred because of their high anti prolyl endopeptidase activities the following compounds may be sometimes referred to by the numbers in parentheses, hereinafter The compounds of the present invention may be synthesized by any of the conventional methods of peptide synthesis, but they may be conveniently synthesized by the following procedures in accordance with the present invention, in which each of the abbreviations represents the following meanings Z benzyloxycarbonyl group Boc t butyloxycarbonyl group Pro proline residue Ala alanine residue The compounds of formula I of the present invention may be synthesized by the following procedures If the compounds have a lower alkyl ester group as R₃ in formula I and are expressed by the formula Id The protected groups of the compounds of formula Id are removed by any of the known methods in relation to amino acid or peptide, so as to obtain dipeptide derivative of fatty acid of the present invention represented by the formula Ie Methanol is added dropwise to a mixture of the compound of formula Id and sodiumborohydride suspended in t butyl alcohol or tetrahydrofurane, so as to reduce the compound, thereby obtaining a compound If which has hydroxymethyl group converted from the carboxyl group The compound of formula If is subjected to a deprotect raction commonly used in the field of amino acid and peptide, so as to obtain dipeptide derivative of fatty acid of the present invention having the formula Ig The compound of formula If is oxidized so as to obtain dipeptide derivative of fatty acid represented by the formula Ih In this oxidation, it is most preferable to employ sulfur trioxide pyridine complex as an oxydizing agent. A suitable reaction solvent is dimethyl sulfoxide and the reaction may be carried out at room temperature. A period of about 1 hour will be sufficient. The compound Ih is subjected to the same de protect reaction as that mentioned above so as to obtain dipeptide derivative of fatty acid represented by the fomula Ii The present invention is hereinunder described in greater detail by way of an Example for Reference and Practical Examples. Z Ala OH 1 equivalent , Pro OMe hydrochloride 1 equivalent and TEA 1 equivalent were dissolved in dry methylene chloride, and WSCD 1 equivalent was added under cooling with ice. Thereafter, the mixture was stirred at room temperature for 20 hours, and the reaction mixture was washed successively with IN HCl, water, saturated aqueous sodium bicarbonate, water and saturated brine. After drying over anhydrous magnesium sulfate, the solvent was distilled off under vacuum. The resulting crude product was purified by medium pressure liquid column chromatography on silica gel. The obtained Z Ala Pro OMe 1 equivalent was dissolved in ethanol, and boron trifluoride ether complex 1 equivalent and palladium on carbon a small amount were added. The mixture was subjected to catalytic reduction to remove the Z group, and the solvent was distilled off under vacuum to obtain the end compound. Instead of Z Ala OH, a Z Val OH, b Z Leu OH, c Z Phe OH, d Z Met OH and e Z norLeu OH were used as starting compounds to obtain a H Val Pro OMe, b H Leu Pro OH, c H Phe Pro OH, d H Met Pro OMe and e H norLeu Pro OMe as oils, respectively. Boc Lys Z OH 1 equivalent , Pro OMe hydrochloride 1 equivalent and TEA 1 equivalent were dissolved in dry methylene chloride, and WSCD 1 equivalent was added under cooling with ice. Thereafter, the mixture was stirred at room temperature for 20 hours, and the reaction mixture was washed successively with IN HCl, water, saturated aqueous sodium bicarbonate, water and saturated brine. After drying over anhydrous magnesium sulfate, the solvent was distilled off under vacuum. The resulting crude product was purified by medium pressure liquid column chromatography on silica gel to obtain the end compound. Boc Lys Z Pro OMe 1 equivalent thus obtained was dissolved in dry methylene chloride, and an excess of trifluoroacetic acid was added. The mixture was stirred for about 6 hours , and the solvent was distilled off under vacuum to obtain the end compound oil . Instead of BOC Lys Z OH in b , Boc Glu Bzl OH was used as a starting compound to obtain H Glu Bzl Pro OMe trifluoroacetate oil . Z Leu OH 1 equivalent , H Leu Pro OMe 1 equivalent synthesized in a and TEA 1 equivalent were dissolved in dry methylene chloride, and WSCD 1 equivalent was added under cooling with ice. Thereafter, the mixture was stirred at room temperature for 20 hours, and the reaction mixture was washed successively with IN HCl, water, saturated aqueous sodium bicarbonate, water and saturated brine. After drying over anhydrous magnesium sulfate, the solvent was distilled off under vacuum. The resulting crude product was purified by medium pressure liquid column chromatography to obtain the end compound. Z Leu Leu Pro OMe 1 equivalent thus obtained was dissolved in ethanol, and boron trifluoride ether complex 1 equivalent and palladium on carbon a small amount were added. The mixture was subjected to catalytic reduction in a hydrogen atmosphere to remove the Z group, and the solvent was distilled off under vacuum to obtain the end compound as an oil. Z Pro OH 1 equivalent , H Pro OMe hydrochloride 1 equivalent and TEA 1 equivalent were dissolved in dry methylene chloride, and WSCD 1 equivalent was added under cooling with ice. Thereafter, the mixture was stirred at room temperature for 20 hours, and the reaction mixture was washed successively with IN HCl, water, saturated aqueous sodium bicarbonate, water and saturated brine. After drying over anhydrous magnesium sulfate, the solvent was distilled off under vacuum. The resulting crude product was purified by medium pressure liquid column chromatography on silica gel to obtain the end compound. Z Pro Pro OMe 1 equivalent thus obtained was dissolved in ethanol, and boron trifluoroide ether complex 1 equivalent and palladium on carbon a small amount were added. The mixture was subjected to catalytic reduction in a hydrogen atmosphere to remove the Z grup, and the solvent was distilled off under vacuum to obtain the end compound as an oil. H Pro OMe hydrochloride 1 equivalent and TEA 2 equivalents were dissolved in dry tetrahydrofurane, and oleoyl chloride 1 equivalent was added dropwise under cooling with ice. Thereafter, the mixture was stirred at room temperature for 6 hours, and the hydrochloride of TEA separted out was filtered off. The solvent was distilled off under vacuum, and the resulting crude product was dissolved in a small amount of ether. Thereafter, the mixture was washed successively with IN HCl, saturated brine, saturated aqueous sodium bicarbonate and saturated brine and dried over anhydrous magnesium sulfate. After concentrating under vacuum, an excess of diazomethane in ether was added to the reaction mixture, and unreacted oleic acid was converted to methylester. The solvent was distilled off under vacuum, and the resulting crude product was purified by medium pressure liquid column chromatography on silica gel to obtain the end compound oil . Instead of oleoyl chloride in a , a palmitoyl chloride was used to obtain a palmitoyl Pro OMe SUAM 1135 . H Leu Pro OMe 1 equivalent and TEA 1 equivalent were dissolved in dry tetrahydrofurane, and oleoyl chloride 1 equivalent was added dropwise under cooling with ice. The mixture was stirred at room temperature for 6 hours, and the hydrochloride of TEA which precipitated was filtered ofd. The solvent was distilled off under vacuum, and the resulting crude product was dissolved in a small amount of ether. The mixture was washed successively with IN HCl, saturated brine, saturated aqueous sodium bicarbonate and saturated brine and dried over anhydrous magnesium sulfate. After concentrating under vacuum, an excess of diazomethane in ether was added, and unreacted oleic acid was converted to methylester. The solvent was distilled off under vacuum, and the resulting crude product was purified by medium pressure liquid column chromatography on silica gel to obtain the end compound oil . Instead of oleoyl chloride in b , a palmitoyl chloride, b stearoyl chloride and c linoleolyl chloride were used to obtain a palmitoyl Leu Pro OMe SUAM 1141 , b stearoyl Leu Pro OMe SUAM 1142 and c linoleoyl Leu Pro OMe SUAM 1143 , respectively. Further, instead of H Leu Pro OMe in b , d H Val Pro OMe, e H Ala Pro OMe, f H Leu Leu Pro OMe, g H Phe Pro OMe, h H Met Pro OMe and i H norLeu Pro OMe were used to obtain d oleoyl Val Pro OMe SUAM 1147 , e oleoyl Ala Pro OMe SUAM 1076 , f oleoyl Leu Leu Pro OMe SUAM 1159 , g oleoyl Phe Pro OMe SUAM 1194 , h oleoyl Met Pro OMe SUAM 1198 and i oleoyl norLeu Pro OMe SUAM 1164 , as oils, respectively. Instead of H Phe Pro OMe 1 equivalent and TEA 1 equivalent in b , c H Lys Z Pro OMe trifluoroacetate 1 equivalent and TEA 2 equivalents were used to obtain c oleoyl Lys Z Pro OMe SUAM 1197 as an oil, and d H Glu Bzl Pro OMe trifluoroacetate 1 equivalent and TEA 2 equivalents were used to obtain d oleoyl Glu Bzl Pro OMe SUAM 1196 as an oil. H Pro Pro OMe 1 equivalent and TEA 1 equivalent were dissolved in dry tetrahydrofurane, and oleoyl chloride 1 equivalent was added dropwise under cooling with ice. The mixture was stirred at room temperature for 6 hours, and the hydrochloride of TEA precipitated was filtered off. The solvent was distilled off under vacuum, and the resulting crude product was dissolved in a small amount of ether. The mixture was washed successively with IN HCl, saturated brine, saturated aqueous sodium bicarbonate and saturated brine and dried over anhydrous magnesium sulfate. After concentrating under vacuum, an excess of diazomethane in ether was added, and unreacted oleic acid was converted to methylester. The solvent was distilled off under vacuum, and the resulting crude product was purified by medium pressure liquid column chromatography on silica gel to obtain the end compound oil . Oleoyl Leu Pro OMe SUAM 1136 2 g obtained in Example 1 and sodiumborohydride 600 mg were dissolved in t butyl alcohol 60 ml , and the mixture was stirred under heating 80 C . Then, absolute methanol 50 ml was added dropwise under reflux. Thereafter, the mixture was refluxed under heating and stirring for two hours. After allowing the mixture to warm to room temperature, water several ml was added under cooling with ice, and unreacted sodiumborohydride was inactivated. Methanol and t butyl alcohol were distilled off under vacuum and the residue was subjected to extraction with ethyl acetate. The extract was washed with saturated brine and dried over anhydrous magnesium sulphate. The solvent was distilled off under vacuum and the resulting crude product was purified by medium pressure liquid column chromatography on silica gel to obtain the end compound as an oil 1 g . Instead of oleoyl Leu Pro OMe in a , a oleoyl Pro OMe SUAM 1131 , b palmitoyl Pro OMe SUAM 1135 , c palmitoyl Leu Pro OMe SUAM 1141 , d stearoyl Leu Pro OMe SUAM 1142 , e linoleoyl Leu Pro OMe SUAM 1143 , f oleoyl Ala Pro OMe SUAM 1076 , g oleoyl Val Pro OMe SUAM 1147 , h oleoyl Leu Leu Pro OMe SUAM 1159 , i oleoyl Phe Pro OMe SUAM 1194 , j oleoyl Met Pro OMe SUAM 1198 , k oleoyl norLeu Pro OMe SUAM 1164 , l oleoyl Lys Z Pro OMe SUAM 1197 and m oleoyl Glu Bzl Pro OMe were used as starting compounds to obtain a oleoyl Pro CH₂OH SUAM 1133 , b palmitoyl Pro CH₂OH SUAM 1137 , c palmitoyl Leu Pro CH₂OH SUAM 1144 , d stearoyl Leu Pro CH₂OH SUAM 1145 , e linoleoyl Leu Pro CH₂OH SUAM 1153 , f oleoyl Ala Pro CH₂OH SUAM 1077 , g oleoyl Val Pro CH₂OH SUAM 1151 , h oleoyl Leu Leu Pro CH₂OH SUAM 1152 i oleoyl Phe Pro CH₂OH SUAM 1205 , j oleoyl Met Pro CH₂OH SUAM 1206 , k oleoyl norLeu Pro CH₂OH SUAM 1165 , l oleoyl Lys Z Pro CH₂OH SUAM 1207 and m oleoyl Glu CH₂OH Pro CH₂OH SUAM 1209 as oils, respectively. Oleoyl Pro Pro OMe SUAM 1195 2 g obtained in Example 1 and sodiumborohydride 600 mg were dissolved in t butyl alcohol 60 ml , and the mixture was stirred under heating 80 C . Then, absolute methanol 50 ml was added dropwise under reflux. Thereafter, the mixture was refluxed under heating and stirring for two hours. After allowing the reaction solution to warm to room temperature, water several ml was added under cooling with ice, and unreacted sodiumborohydride was inactivated. methanol and t butylalcohol were distilled off under vacuum and the residue was subjected to extraction with ethyl acetate. The extract was washed with saturated brine and dried over magnesium sulphate anhydride. The solvent was distilled off under vacuum and the resulting crude product was purified by medium pressure liquid column chromatography on silica gel to obtain the end compound as an oil 1 g . Oleoyl Leu Pro CH₂OH SUAM 1138 1 g obtained in Example 2 and TEA 800 mg were dissolved in dimethyl sulfoxide anhydride 8 ml , and sulfur tioxide pyridine complex 700 mg in dimethylsulfoxide 8 ml was added under stirring. The mixture was stirred at room temperature for about 1 hour, and was then poured into ice water 100 ml . The reaction mixture was then subjected to extraction with ethyl acetate. The extract was washed successively with 10 citric acid solution, saturated brine, saturated aqueous sodium bicarbonate and saturated brine and dried over anhydrous magnesium sulfate. The solvent was distilled off under vacuum, and the resulting crude product was purified by medium pressure liquid column chromatography on silica gel to obtain the end compound as an oil 700 mg . Instead of oleoyl Leu Pro CH₂OH SUAM 1138 in a , a oleoyl Pro CH₂OH SUAM 1133 , b palmitoyl Pro CH₂OH SUAM 1137 , c palmitoyl Leu Pro CH₂OH SUAM 1144 , d stearoyl Leu Pro CH₂OH SUAM 1145 , e linoleoyl Leu Pro CH₂OH SUAM 1153 , f oleoyl Ala Pro CH₂OH SUAM 1077 , g oleoyl Val Pro CH₂OH SUAM 1151 , h oleoyl Leu Leu Pro CH₂OH SUAM 1152 , i oleoyl Phe Pro CH₂OH SUAM 1205 , j oleoyl Met Pro CH₂OH SUAM 1206 , k oleoyl norLeu Pro CH₂OH SUAM 1207 , l oleoyl Lys Z Pro CH₂OH SUAM 1207 and m oleoyl Glu CH₂OH Pro CH₂OH SUAM 1209 were used as starting compounds to obtain a oleoyl Pro CHO SUAM 1134 , b palmitoyl Pro CHO SUAM 1139 , c palmitoyl Leu Pro CHO SUAM 1155 , d stearoyl Leu Pro CHO SUAM 1154 , e linoleoyl Leu Pro CHO SUAM 1157 , f oleoyl Ala Pro CHO SUAM 1092 , g oleoyl Val Pro CHO SUAM 1156 , h oleoyl Leu Leu Pro CHO SUAM 1158 , i oleoyl Phe Pro CHO SUAM 1212 , j oleoyl Met Pro CHO SUAM 1214 , k oleoyl norLeu Pro CHO SUAM 1166 , l oleoyl Lys Z Pro CHO SUAM 1216 and m oleoyl Glu CHO Pro CHO SUAM 1217 , respectively. Oleoyl Pro Pro CH₂OH SUAM 1204 1 g obtained in Example 2 and TEA 800 mg were dissolved in anhydrous dimethylsulfoxide 8 ml , and sulfur trioxide pyridine complex 700 mg in dimethylsulfoxide 8 ml was added under stirring. The mixture was stirred at room temperature for about 1 hour, and poured into ice water 100 ml . The reaction solution was subjected to extraction with ethyl acetate, and the extract was washed successively with 10 citric acid solution, saturated brine, saturated aqueous sodium bicarbonate and saturated brine and dried over anhydrous magnesium sulfate. The solvent was distilled off under vacuum, and the resulting crude product was purified by medium pressure liquid column chromatography on silica gel to obtain the end compound as an oil 700 mg . The analytical data for the compounds obtained are listed in Table 1. All the compouds in Table 1 are oils which are soluble in CCl₄, ether, CHCl₃, CH₂Cl₂, AcOEt and MeOH. SUAM 1194 is also soluble in benzene. The present inventors examined the capability of the compounds of the present invention to inhibit the decomposition of Z glycyl prolyl β naphthylamide by prolyl endopeptidase and found that they exhibit strong anti prolyl endopeptidase activity and yet show no inhibiting activity against proteinase such as papain, bromelain, trypsin, chymotrypsin, thermolysin and pepsin, as shown in the Experimental Examples described later. The compounds thus obtained are novel and exhibit excellent effects against amnesia. The method of Yoshimoto and Tsuru T. Yoshimoto and D. Tsuru, Agr. Biol. Chem. A sample for blind test was prepared by using the buffer instead of the anti prolyl endopeptidase compound and its absorbance b was also measured. The percent inhibition of prolyl endopeptidase was calculated by the formula b a b x 100, and the amount of a specific compound to achieve 50 inhibition IC Several of the anti prolyl endopeptidase compounds of the present invention were checked for their ability to prevent the inhibition of long term memory fixation by scopolamine. Solutions of physiological saline 0.3 ml that contained selected compounds of the present inventions in varying amounts 11 mg, 0.25 mg, 0.1 mg, 0.025 mg and 0.010 mg kg were administered intraperitoneally once a day to Wister male rats 100 120 g . One hour after the administration, electric shocks 1.7 mA were applied to the rats so that they would acquire passive avoidance learning. Immediately thereafter, scopolamine was administered intraperitoneally to each rat in an amount of 3 mg per kg of body weight. The result of the test was assessed both 24 hours and 48 hours after the administration of scopolamine. The number of amnesic rats and of sound rats was counted for each of the control group rats to which the test compounds had not been administered but to which only scopolamine and physiological saline had been administered intraperitoneally and the treated group rats to which both the test compound and scopolamine had been administered . The results are shown in Table 3. SUAM 1156 exhibited no remarkable effect when administered orally in an amount of 1 mg kg, but exhibited a considerably excellent anti amnesic action when administered orally in an amount of 0.1 mg kg. Although SUAM 1140 and SUAM 1214 exhibited no remarkable effect when administered orally in an amount of 1 mg kg, they exhibited a considerably excellent anti amnesic action when administered orally in amounts of 0.1 mg kg and 0.025 mg kg, respectively. SUAM 1214 exhibited a remarkable anti amnesic action even when the dose was lowered to 0.01 mg kg. SUAM 1158, 1155 and 1154 exhibted a strong anti amnesic action when administered orally in an amount of 0.1 mg kg. SUAM 1158 exhbited excellent effect even at a dose of 0.025 mg kg. In addition, SUAM 1166, 1212 and 1215 also exhibited a strong anti amnesic action when administered orally in an amount of 0.025 mg kg. SUAM 1215 exhibited a strong anti amnesic action even at a dose of 0.01 mg kg. The action of all the compounds depends upon the dose. The compounds of the present invention were checked for their anti hypoxia action in ddY strain male mice body weight 25 34 g . Each of the treated groups consisted of 7 to 10 mice. Test samples were prepared by adding 2 to 3 drops of Tween 80 At 30 minutes after the administration, each of the mice was placed in a desiccator having a volume of 1 ℓ, and the desiccator was evacuated to 180 mmHg using a vacuum pump. The period of time from the start of the evacuation until the arrest of breathing was defined as Survival Time minute . When a mouse survived for 15 minutes or more, the survival time was recorded as being 15 minutes. Student s t test was employed for significance analysis. The results are shown in Table 4 below. The present invention also relates to an anti amnesic agent useful for the treatment of diseases originating from organic disorders in the brain. The anti amnesic agent comprises at least one compound of the formula I together with a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier. The formulation of the agent of the invention includes either solid formulations such as capsules, tablets and powders, a liquid formulations such as elixirs, syrups and suspensions for oral administration. Alternatively, the active compounds I may be formulated as injections or suppositories. The carrier included in the agent of the invention may be selected from pulverulent solid carriers such as lactose, saccharose, dextrose, mannitol, sorbitol, cellulose, and glycine etc. The agent of the invention may further contain a lubricant, a binder or a disintegrater. Examples of lubricant are silicon dioxide, talc, magnesium stearate and polyethylene glycol. Examples of binder are starch, gelatin, tragacanth, methyl cellulose and polyvinyl pyrrolidone. Examples of disintegrator are starch and agar etc. The active ingredient I of the agent of the invention is orally administered to an adult patient in a dose of 10 to 4,000 mg, preferably 100 to 1,000 mg day, or administered parenterally in a dose of 1 to 2,000 mg, preferably 50 to 500 mg day. The dose may be varied depending on the disease, age, weight, or condition of the patient or the formulation of the drugs. The ingredients are mixed thoroughly, and tablests or capsules are formulated from the mixture. The above ingredients are mixed thoroughly, and powders or fine granules are formulated from the mixture. The above ingredients are mixed under heating, and dispensed under sterile conditions into ampoules to obtain injections.