# Eccentric gearing with oscillating teeth elements.

## Abstract
A speed reducer ist chiefly composed of an off set standard ball bearing wave generator 5,6 , an oscillating tooth gear 8 , including a set of radially orientated, preferably sliding teeth 10 , and a ring gear 1 in the form of a set of preferably needlelike teeth 2 with or without a free sleeve 3 on each. Lubrication of the sliding teeth 10 is provided.

## Claims
1. An oscillating tooth speed reducer with its features consisting in a ring gear G composed of a set of needles 2 in a circular ring 1 , a tooth wheel H composed of a corresponding number of oscillating teeth 10 , and a wave generator J composed of an off set circular disc 5 on ball bearing 6 and all these three parts are assembled with a common axis.

## Description
The present invention relates to a new construction of the general purpose mechanical transmission device. Its case is designed according to installation its in put and output shafts are assembled in a line. Generally, the planocentric reducer and the cyclo reducer are involved in complex technology because of their special tooth profile requirement. Furthermore, they need an intricate outlet mechanism to comply with the orbit motion of the planet. This mechanism limits the reducer s loading capacity and its efficiency, and com plicates its fabrication. The inertia force and the difficulty of fabrication of cycloidal wheels become the real problems difficult to solve for those reducers of large sizes. In patents are known an off set circular disk drive or an fallower tooth drive using the sliding tooth engagement construction. They obviated the difficulties at the expense of using conjugate principle, which results in complex tooth profile internal gear, making it difficult to manufacture. In addition, a return spring is necessary to help the teeth come back. Fact shows, however, that the return spring is a trouble some piece, because it may cut down the mechanical efficiency, the slot for it on the pin reduces the latter s strength and leads to manufacturing difficul ties. All of these effects are unfavorable to those products for marketing. The object of this invention seeks to improve a speed reducer based on oscillating teeth principle with simple tooth profiles. According to the invention this object is achieved in that an off set ball bearing disk is functioning as a wave generator. Between the input and output shafts is an off set circular disk used as a wave generator to drive a series of wedge headed oscillating teeth to engage with needles in a ring gear so as to render a planocentric drive possible. Preferably it actuates a set of oscillating teeth preferably pinlike with wedged heads to slide in the radially orientated holes in a tooth wheel to mesh with a needle tooth internal gear. The wedged heads can be simple plane surfaces with specific angles, and the needle teeth in the internal gear can be made up of needles with or without a sleeve on each. An approximate conjugation motion between the teeth elements is guaranteed by means of proper selection of structural parameters to make the transmission be continuous, although theoretical conjugate tooth profiles are not accepted. For the same reason, a return spring may be unnecessary in the invention. The use of double rows of sliding tooth construction is another thing benificial to continuous motion and reduction of internal unbalanced forces, which improves the trans mission characteristics and renders the small oscilla ting teeth to take the place of large planet gears possible. Internal forces are balanced for the most part, leaving little inertia force for large reducers. All these to gether make this kind of reducer be easy to manufacture, compact in size, cheaper in cost price, and with higher loading capacity and higher transmission efficiency. That is why the reducer s size can be reduced with less inertia forces. Preferred embodiments of the invention are contained in the claims. The scope of protection extends not only to the individual features claimed, but also to combi nations of such features. Embodiments of the invention are illustrated by way of example in the accompanying drawings and are des cribed more fully hereinafter. In the drawings The features of this invention can be related through Fig.1 and 2. The oscillating tooth speed reducer has its case designed by the installation requirements. It can be fixed up vertically or horizontally. The input shaft 4 and the output shaft 7 are assembled in a common axis. The output shaft 7 is supported in the case 11 by means of two ball bearings 16. The inner part of this shaft 7 is balted to a circular ring, namely the tooth wheel 8. On this tooth wheel 8 there are two rows of equally spaced holes and these two rows are staggered half a pitch each other along the circumference. In every hole is fitted up an oscillating teeth 10. Thus a double row tooth wheel H is tooled. Other features consist in the proper angle between the two wedge surfaces on the oscillating teeth 10 which is itself cylindrical or slightly convex, and its tail is in the form of a spherical surface 10b or conical surface 10a. The oscillating tooth 10 is capable of straight motion without turning in the hole by virtue of a space ring 9. These oscillating teeth preferably pinlike are milled a little on one side for guiding use and the circular ring 1 is a U section ring. A ring gear G is provided with needles 2, generally with a free sleeve 3 on each. For limited space, only needles 2 are preferable, but letting them turn freely in the gear ring 1. For larger axial dimensions, needles 2 or together with sleeves 3 can be separated into two rows corresponding to the double row tooth wheel H. A middle support for the needles 2 may be unavoidable in this case. In short, needles 2 and sleeves 3 together with the gear ring 1 constitute the ring gear G. The difference of the number of tooth Z The input shaft 4 is supported at one end in a case cover 12, and at the other end in the output shaft 7. Case cover 12 and gear ring 1 are rigidly connected to a case 11 by use of a set of bolts 17. The wave generator J is a similarly dual construction, 180 in phase difference, each side of it driving a row of oscillating teeth 10 the generator profile against the tail part of oscillating teeth 10. The wave generator is composed of an off set disk 5, which is mounted on ball bearings 6. For larger sizes, additional ring may be used on the outer race of bearing 6 without changing the bearing itself. From the description above, it is evident that when the input shaft 4 turns, the wave generator J produces an off set motion which drives the oscillating teeth 10 to move radially in succession. These oscillating teeth 10 mesh with the ring gear G periodically to yield a positive engagement motion, which enforce the tooth wheel H or the ring gear G to produce a relative motion in the ratio of Z with respect to the input shaft, herewith Z the number of teeth of the follower no matter whether it is the tooth wheel 8 or ring gear 6. The returning action of the oscillating teeth 10 is accomplished by the conjugating effort itself, and not by any outside assistance. In heavy duty reducers, the oscillating teeth 10 are preferably designed with a pump construction Fig.4 with a plunger 13 and a spring 14a. In another case the toothed structure becomes a cylinder 18 with a spring 14a loaded plunger 14 inside. At the wall of the cylinder 18 and the plunger 14 there are holes 15 for oil inlet and outlet, the wave generator actuates the plunger 14 to pump the lubricant out to lubricate the contact surface in forces lubrication condition while the plun ger 14 returns under the action of spring 14a, it sucks. Fig.5 is an alternative to embody the pumping principle in the tooth wheel 10 proper. G, H and J are aligned, any one of them may be the stationary, or the driving, or the driven part. Let Z In the case of stationary tooth wheel H, the trans mission ratio is i Z The sign is used for Z In the case of stationary ring gear G, i Z Transmission parameters Fixed ring gear structure is preferable. For single stages, i 15 60. For double stages, i 225 3600. Number of teeth Z Circular pitch of needles tg is to be determined by tooth strength. Inside diameter of tooth wheel D1 Dw 2L. Breadth of tooth wheel L 1.2 2 dh, larger values are to be chosen for larger circular pitches. Minimum thickness of the holey wall Standard ball bearings can be selected according to the Rj value. Eccentricity e e Kz.tg, Kz 0.4 0.7, to be modified by correct meshing relationship. Needle diameter dg 0.4 .6 tg Tooth diameter dh o.4 .6 tg Tooth length T Dg 2 dg 2 Dj 2 e Δ₁ 0.2 0.4 e Wedge angle on the tooth α 30 45 . Fig.1 and 2 give a real example of the said reducer. Through tests it has been proven that its transmission ratio is rather high and its size much smaller, down to 1 3 of the size of its ordinary gear counterparts. In this series of products, the transmission ratio for single stages ranges from 15 to 60. The loading capacity amounts to 6 times of that of its counterparts. For general purpose series, the output power is within the range of P o.6 110 KW. It has all the advantages as mentioned above. Its efficiency is high, e.g., η 0.9 0.94 at transmission ratio i 29. Among its other features are less energy loss, lower noise level, high loading capacity, compact in size, simple construction, easy manufacture and maintenance, and ease of its standardization and serialization.