# 4 aminomethyfluorescein derivatives for use in fluorescence polarization immunoassys.

## Abstract
The present invention is directed to an improved method for the preparation of 4 aminomethylfluorescein derivatives for use in fluorescence polarization immunoassays. The invention is also directed to a novel class of 4 N alkylamino methylfluorescein derivatives possessing utility as reagents in such assays.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A compound having the formula EMI15.1 and the acid additional salts thereof, wherein Rl isC1 to C8 alkyl R2 is a ligand analog hauing at least one common epitope with a ligand so as to be specifically recognizable by a common antibody R3 is hydrogen, alkyl, halo, amino or carboxyl R4 is hydrogen, alkyl, halo, amino or carboxy and R5 is hydrogen, alkyl, halo, amine or carboxyl. 2. n compound as defined in Claim l whereinR1 is a methyl group. 3. n compound as defined in Claim 1 whereinR1 is an ethyl group. 4. A compound as defined in Claim 1 whereinR1 is an n butyl group. 5. A process for the preparation of a compound having the formula EMI15.2 and the acid addition salts thereof, wherein R isC1 to C8 alkyl R3 is hydrogen, alkyl, halo1 amino or carboxy R4 is hydrogen, alkyl, halo, amino or carboxyl and R5 is hydrogen, alkyl, halo1 amino or carboxy comprising reacting a haloacetamidomethylfluorescein the the presence of an alcohol and a strong acid and recouering the 4 alkylsinomethylfluore scein compound thus produced. 6. n process as defined in Claim 5 wherein the alcohol is methanol. 7. n process as defined in Claim 5 wherein the alcohol is ethanol. 8. A process as defined in Claim 5 wherein the alcohol is n butanol. 9. In a method of detecting a ligand by fluorescence polarization using a fluorescent tracer, the improuement comprising using as a tracer a compound as defined in Claim 1. 10. n process for the preparation of 41 aminomethylfluorescein compounds, and the acid addition salts thereof, comprising reacting an acetamidomethylfluorescein or 4 haloacetamidomethylfluorescein in the presence of a nonhydroxylic ether and a strong acid and recovering the 4 aminomethylfluorescein compound thus produced.

## Description
4 AMINOMETHYLFLUORESCEIN DERIVATIVES FOR USE iN. I IJORK,SCENLL POLARIZATIONIMMUNOASSAYS Backoround of the InventionTechnical Field The present invention relates in a first aspect, to an improved method for the preparation of 4 aminomethylfluorescein deriuatiues and, in a second aspect, to a nouel class of 4 N alkylaminomethyl fluorescein deriuatives, both of which may be employed as reagents in fluorescence polarization immunoassays. Backoround hrt Competitive binding immunoassays prouide a means for determining the concentration of ligands in biological fluids such as serum, plasma, spinal and amniotic fluids, and urine. The ligand to be measured competes with a labeled reagent, or ligand analog or tracer 11 for a limited number of receptor binding sites on antibodies specific to the ligand and ligand analog. For purposes of this disclosure, the term ligand analog refers to a compound possessing one or more determinant or epitopic sites capable of competing with the ligand for the binding sites of a receptor, whether in conjugation with a fluorescein derivative to form a tracer or in its unconjugated form. The concentration of ligand in the sample determines the amount of ligand analog which binds to the antibody the amount of ligand analog that will bind is inversely proportional to the concentration of licand in the sample, because the ligand and the tracer each bind to the antibody in proportion to their respective concentrations. Fluorescence polarization provides a quant1tative means for measuring the amount of tracer antibody conjugate produced in a competitive binding immunoassay. Fluorescence polarization techniques are based on the principle that a fluorescent labeled compound, when excited by plane polarized light, will emit fluorescence having a degree of polarization inversely related to its rate of rotation. Nccordingly, when a tracer antibody conjugate having a fluorescent label is excited with plane polarized light, the emitted light remains highly polarized because the fluorophore is constrained from rotating between the time that light is adsorbed and emitted.In contrast, when an unbound tracer is excited by plane polarized light, its rotation is much faster than that of the corresponding tracer antibody conjugate. fls a result, the light emitted from the unbound tracer molecules is depolarized. The use of 4 aminomethylfluorescein derivatives as tracers in fluorescence polarization immunoassays is known in the art, having been disclosed in U.S. Patent No. 4,510,251 to Kirkemo andShipchandler. The method disclosed therein for the preparation of 4 aminomethylfluorescein is not without drawbacks, howeuer, as it has subsequently been learned by applicants that alkylation occurs as an unavoidable side reaction, thereby diminishing the yield of 4 aminomethylfluorescein. The present invention provides a method whereby 4 aminomethylfluorescein can be prepared without concomitant alkylation and thus with greatly improued yield. In addition, a novel class of 4 aminomethylfluorescein derivatives, viz., 4 N alkylaminomethylfluorescein compounds, has been discouered as an aspect of this invention. These unique and unexpected fluorescein derivatives possess greater sensitivity, and hence utility, than 4 aminomethyl fluorescein in certain specific instances, as will be explained infra. Summary of the Invention n first aspect of the invention relates to the discovery of a class of 4 N alkylaminomethylfluorescein derivatives having the structural formula EMI3.1 and acid addition salts thereof, wherein R1 is C1 toC8 alkyl R3 is hydrogen, alkyl, halo, amino or carboxyl R4 is hydrogen, alkyl, halo, amino or carboxyl, and R5 is hydrogen, alkyl, halo, amino or carboxyl. These 4 N alkylaminomethylfluorescein derivatives possess particularly useful properties for certain fluorescence polarization immunoassays, wherein they are utilized as fluorescent tracers hauing the formula EMI3.2 and the acid addition salts thereof, wherein R1, R3,R4, and R5 are as defined aboue, and R2 is a ligand analog hauing at least one common epitope with a ligand so as to be specifically recognizable by a common antibody. The use of the derivatives in fluorescence polarization immunoassays represents a second aspect of the invention. Q third aspect of the invention relates to a method for the preparation of 4 N alkylaminomethylfluorescein compounds and their acid addition salts. R fourth aspect of the invention relates to a new and improved method for the preparation of 4 aminomethylfluorescein compounds having the structural formula EMI4.1 and acid addition salts thereof, wherein R1, R2 andR3 each may be hydrogen, alkyl, halo1 amino or carboxyl. The nouel process whereby these compounds may be prepared comprises reacting an acetamidomethyl fluorescein or 4 haloacetamidomethylfluorescein in the presence of a nonhydroxylic ether and a strong acid and recovering the 4 aminomethylfluorescein thus produced. Further objects and attendant advantages of the invention will be best understood from a reading of the following detailed description, taken together with the figures and examples.Detailed Description of the Invention The present invention involves the use of fluorescein and derivatives of fluorescein and, more specifically, utilization of their ability to emit fluorescence. Fluorescein exists in either of two tautomeric forms depending on the acid concentration pH of the environment.In the open acid form, there are a number of conjugated double bonds which make that form of fluorescein and compounds containing a fluorescein moiety capable of absorbing blue light and emitting green fluorescence after an excited state lifetime of about four nanoseconds. Ns used herein, the term fluorescein , either as an individual compound or as a component of a larger compound, is meant to include both the open and closed forms, if they exist for a particular molecule, except in the context of fluorescence. fln open form is necessary for the fluorescence to occur. n tracer in solution which is not complexed to an antibody is free to rotate in less than the time required for absorption and re emission of fluorescent light. fls a result, the re emitted light is relatively randomly oriented so that the fluorescence polarization of a tracer not complexed to an antibody is low, approaching zero. Upon complexing with a specific antibody, the tracer antibody complex thus formed assumes rotation corresponding to the polarization obserued. When a ligand competes with a tracer for antibody sites, then the observed polarization of fluorescence of the resulting mixture of free tracer and tracer antibody complex assumes a value intermediate between that of the tracer and that of the tracer antibody complex. If a sample contains a high concentration of the ligand, the obserued polarization ualue is closer to that of the free ligand, i.e., low.If the test sample contains a low concentration of the ligand, the polarization ualue is closer to that of the bound ligand, i.e., high. By sequentially exciting the reaction mixture of an immunoassay with uertically and then horizontally polarized light and analyzing only the vertically polarized component of the emitted light, the polarization of fluorescence in the reaction mixture may be accurately determined. The precise relationship between polarization and concentration of the ligand to be determined is established by measuring the polarization values of calibrators with known concentrations. The concentration of the ligand can be interpolated from a standard curve prepared in this manner. The 4 N alkylaminomethyIfluorescein tracers of the present invention generally exist in an equilibrium between their protonated and ionized states, and in the ionized state are effective in fluorescence polarization immunoassays. For convenience, the tracers are structurally represented herein in their protonated form. In their ionized state, the tracers exist in the form of biologically acceptable acid addition salts. As used herein, the term biologically acceptable salts refers to salts such as sodium, potassium, and ammonium which will enable the tracers to exist in their ionized state when employed in fluorescence polarization immunoassays. Generally, the tracers of the present invention exist in solution as salts, the specific salt resulting from the buffer employed.For example, in the presence of a sodium phosphate buffer, the tracers will generally exist in their ionized state as sodium salts. Various 4 aminomethylfluorescein derivatives useful as tracers can be prepared in accordance with the improved method of the present invention. Essentially, for all but the 4 N alkylaminomethylfluorescein derivatives, fluorescein is treated with a 4 haloacetamidomethanol in the presence of acid to yield an acetamidomethyl or 4 haloacetamide derivative, which is then hydrolyzed in the presence of acid and a nonhydroxylic ether to yield an acid salt of a 4 aminomethylfluorescein. No undesired alkylated side products are produced by this method. The 4 aminomethylfluorescein so produced is treated with an activated ester of the ligand analog of choice in the presence of a suitable solvent and a suitable base sufficient to neutralize the acid salt to yield 4 aminomethylfluorescein tracer.The nonhydroxylic ether that is used will preferably have a boiling point in the range of 80 200 C. Examples of preferred ethers include diethylene glycol ditnethyl ether and ethylene glycol dimethyl ether. The 4 N alkylaminomethylfluorescein derivatives of the present invention are, however, prepared in accordance with the general procedures set forth in Examples III, IV and V. For these derivatives, fluorescein is treated with a 4 haloacetamidomethanol in the presence of acid to yield a 4 haloacetamide derivative, which is then hydrolyzed in the presence of acid and a C C8 alcohol. This yields an acid salt of 4 N C1 C8 alkyl aminomethylfluorescein deriuative corresponding to the particular C1 C8 alcohol used in hydrolysis. The alkylation of the amino group upon removal of the chloroacetyl group during hydrolysis was an unexpected result. There are no instances known to the applicants wherein an amino group is alkylated by an alcohol under acidic conditions.The 4 N alkylaminomethylfluorescein so produced is treated with an activated ester of the ligand analog of choice in the presence of a suitable solvent and a suitable base sufficient to neutralize the acid salt. The temperature at which the reaction for preparing the tracer proceeds is not critical, so long as it is sufficient to initiate and maintain the reaction without causing unwanted degredation or side reactions. Generally, for convenience and economy, room temperature will suffice. The pH must be sufficient to allow tracers prepared according to the present invention to exist in their ionized state. The pH may range from about 3 to 12, more usually in the range of from 5 to 10, most preferably from about 6 to 8. Various buffers may be used to achieve and maintain the pH during the fluorescence polarization immunoassay procedure.Representative buffers include borate, phosphate, carbonate, tris, barbital, and the like. The particular buffer employed is not critical as to the 41 aminomethylfluorescein derivatives, but in an indiuidual assay a specific buffer may be preferred in view of the antibody and the ligand to be determined. Rs stated earlier, the cation portion of the buffer will generally determine the cation portion of the tracer salt in solution. The concentration of ligand which may be assayed will generally vary from about 10 2 to lO 13 M more usually from about 10 to 10 M. P. Higher concentrations of ligand may be assayed upon dilution of the original sample. In addition to the concentration range of ligand of interest, considerations such as whether the assay is qualitatiue, semiquantitative, or quantitative, the equipment employed, and the characteristics of the tracer and antibody will normally determine the concentration of the tracer and antibody to be employed, as will be apparent to those skilled in the art. n sample containing the ligand to be determined is intermixed with a biologically acceptable salt of a tracer and an antibody specific for the ligand and tracer. The ligand present in the sample and the tracer compete for limited antibody sites, resulting in the formation of ligand antibody and tracer antibody complexes. Because the concentration of tracer and antibody is maintained constant, the ratio of ligand antibody complex to tracer antibody complex formed is directly proportional to the amount of ligand present in the sample, Therefore, upon exciting the mixture with fluorescent light and measuring the polarization of the fluorescence emitted by a tracer and a tracer antibody complex, one is able to quantitatively determine the amount of ligand in the sample. Examples of ligands determinable by 4 aminomethylfluorescein tracers prepared according to the present invention and by the novel 4 N alkylaminomethylfluorescein tracers of a second aspect of the invention include steroids such as estriol, estradiol, cortisol, testosterone and progesterone vitamins various kinds of drugs and their metabolites and other ligands enumerated in U.S. PatentNo. 4,510,251. Immunogens used in antibody production are often produced by attaching the carboxylic acid arm of a hapten to the epsilon amino group of the lysines of a large molecular weight protein. This attachment occurs through the formation of an amide bond, or bridge . It has been observed that certain species of polyclonal antibodies are attracted to this bridge rather than to the hapten itself. R tracer having this particular bridge may become so tightly bound to antibody that it cannot be displaced effectively by the hapten. This situation has been described by J.E.T. Corrie and W.M. Hunter in Methods of Enzymology, 73, 79 1981 as the bridge binding phenomenon . This problem can be circumvented by using the tracers of the present invention, wherein the amide bond has been altered by the substitution of a C1 CB alkyl group for a hydrogen on the nitrogen. Another problem sometimes encountered in fluorescence polarization immunoassays involves quenching of the fluorescent signal of the tracer by the hapten, resulting in decreased sensitivity. While applicants do not wish to be bound to the following theory it is believed that the proximity of the fluorophore to the hapten creates a 11folding over effect resulting in nonradiative energy transfer, and that the placement of a bulky group on the amide bridge will lessen this folding over and minimize energy transfer. Thus, the 4 N alkylaminomethylfluorescein tracers are recommended over their nonalkylated counterparts in situations in which either the bridge binding phenomenon or the folding over effect is encountered. The following illustrative, nonlimiting examples will serve to further demonstrate to those skilled in the art the manner in which specific tracers may be prepared in accordance with the invention. Example I This example illustrates the preparation of 4 chloroacetamidomethylfluorescein, which serves as an intermediate in the preparation of 4 aminomethylfluorescein. To 10.0 g 30.1 mmole of fluorescein dissolved in 100 ml of concentrated sulfuric acid was added 3.7 g 30.1 mmole of N hydroxymethylchloroacetamide as a solid, along with 100 ml of additional sulfuric acid.The reaction was stirred for 20 hours under an argon atmosphere protected from light and then poured over 1 liter of ice. The yellow precipitate was washed several times with ice cold water and then dried under reduced pressure. The product was purified using column chromatography 7 x 50 cm column, 700 g silica gel . Elution was with 5 methanol in methylene chloride, followed by 10 methanol in methylene chloride.Fractions wee checked by thin layer chromatography silica gel 10 methanol in methylene chloride after which the appropriate fractions were combined and the solvent was removed under reduced pressure. The yield was 4.9 g 37 of chloroacetamidomethylfluorescein as an orange solid. Example II This example illustrates the preparation of 4 aminomethylfluores cein. Chloroacetamidomethylfluorescein 25.0 g prepared according to Example is was refluxed in diethylene glycol dimethyl ether 110 ml and concentrated hydrochloric acid 30 ml for 20 hours under a nitrogen atmosphere. The solvent was removed under reduced pressure and the residue was purified using a Waters Prep LC System 500 n liquid chromatograph equipped with two Prep PQK C18 columns. Elution at lOOm minute was with water methanol acetic acid 50 50 0.4 . The residue was dissolved in methanol 40 ml and four injections were made into the preparatiue system.Fractions were checked by thin layer chromatography Whatman C18 plates, 40 60 0.4, 500 mM ammoniurn acetate methanol acetic acid , after which the appropriate fractions were combined. The solvent was removed under reduced pressure and the residual acetic acid was removed by coevaporation with methanol toluene 1 1.3 x 100 ml . The yield was 6.8 g 31 of 4 aminomethylfluorescein hydrochloride as a dark orange solid. Example III This example illustrates the preparation of 4 N methylaminomethylfluorescein. R solution of 4 chloroacetamidomethylfluorescein 2.4 g , prepared according to Example I, in methanol 40 ml and concentrated hydrochloric acid 3 ml was refluxed for 20 hours under argon atmosphere.The solvent was removed under reduced pressure and the residue was purified using a Waters Prep LC System 5004 liquid chromatograph equipped with two one inch columns packed with reverse phase medium Whatman Partisil 40,ODS 3 . Elution was with water methanol acetic acid 45 55 0.5 at 50 ml minute. Fractions were checked by thin layer chromatography Whatman C18 plates, same solvent system , after which the appropriate fractions were combined and the solvent was removed under reduced pressure. The residue was crystallized from water methanol 1 1, 15 ml to yield 0.32 g 16 of 4 N methylaminomethylfluorescein hydrochloride as an orange solid. Example IV This example illustrates the preparation of 4 N ethylaminofluorescein. n solution of 41 chloroacetamidomethyl fluorescein 3.0 g prepared according to Example I, in 95 ethanol 50 ml and concentrated hydrochloric acid 10 ml was refluxed for 20 hours under an argon atmosphere. The solvent was removed under reduced pressure and the residue was purified by column chromatography 7 x 50 cm column, 300 g silica gel eluting with methanol methylene chloride 30 70 .Fractions were checked by thin layer chromatography silica gel, same system , after which the appropriate fractions were combined and the solvent was removed under reduced pressure. The yield was 1.5 g 55 of 4 N ethylaminomethylfluorescein hydrochloride as an orange solid. Example V This example illustrates the preparation of 4 N n butylaminomethylfluorescein. n solution of 4 chloroacetamidomethylfluorescein 19.0 g , prepared according to Example I, in n butanol 160 ml and concentrated hydrochloric acid 30 m was refluxed for 6 hours under a nitrogen atmosphere. The reaction was stopped so as to produce both 4 aminornethylfluorescein and 4 N n butylaminomethyl fluorescein in an approximately 60 40 mixture by thin layer chromatography Whatman C18 plates, water methanol acetic acid 40 60 0.5 . The solvent was removed under reduced pressure, yielding a dark red, gel like residue. This residue was purified using aWaters Prep LC System 500 Q liquid chromatograph equipped with two Prep PAK 500 C18 columns. Elution was with water methanol acetic acid 45 55 0.5 at 100 ml minute.The residue was dissolued in methanol 40 ml and two injections were made, one approximately 30 ml and the other approximately 20 ml. Fractions were checked by thin layer chromatography same system , after which the appropriate fractions were combined and the solvent removed under reduced pressure, yielding 6.0 g 38 of 4 aminomethylfluorescein hydrochloride and 5.55 g 30.9 4 N n butylaminomethylfluorescein hydrochloride. Example QI This example illustrates the preparation of an estriol tracer utilizing the 4 N ethylaminomethylfluorescein prepared in Example IV. To a solution of 0.100 g of estriol 3 carboxymethylether and 0.050 g of N hydroxysuccinimide in dry N,N dimethylformamide was added 0.060 g ofN,N dicyclohexylcarbodiimide. The solution was stirred at room temperature under an inert atmosphere overnight. This solution was added to a.123 g of 4 ethylaminomethylfluorescein which had been dissolved in dry N,N dimethylformamide and 0,060 ml of triethylamine. The reaction was again stirred at room temperature under an inert atmosphere overnight, after which the solvent was removed under reduced pressure. The residue was purified by preparative thin layer chromatography, first with reverse phase medium methanol water acetic acid , then with silica gel methanol methylene chloride acetic acid, 10 90 0.4 , to yield estriol 3 carboxymethylether 4 N ethyl aminomethylfluorescein tracer. This tracer was successfully utilized in a fluorescence polarization immunoassay for total estriol. It will be understood that various changes, modifications and equivalents can be made in the details of procedure, formulation and use without departing from the spirit and scope of the inuentibn.