# COMPOSITION TO TREATING BONE DISORDERS

## Claims
Verwendung einer Germanium oder Platin enthaltenden Verbindung zur Herstellung eines Arzneimittels für die Behandlung einer Knochenresorptionsstörung.

## Description
This invention relates to the use of germanium a platinum containing compounds for the manufacture of pharmaceutical composition for treatment of disorders associated with bone resorption. In particular, it relates to the use of said compounds for the manufacture of pharmaceutical composition for the treatment of disorders which are associated with accelerated loss of bone mass and decreased calcium of bone. These disorders may result in, e.g., decreased bone strength which in turn leads to fracture, pain, and disability, and increased calcium levels in blood, which may be life threatening. Since the initial date of this application, applicants copending U.S. application which discloses and claims methods of preventing excessive loss of calcium from human bone by administration of pharmaceutically acceptable gallium metal compounds has issued as U.S. Patent 4,529,593, July 16, 1985. EP A1 109 564 discloses the use of gallium containing compounds for the treatment of disorder of the calcium homeostasis. Warrell, et al., The applicants original work with gallium containing compounds has been expanded to evaluate the effects of other metal containing compounds upon bone resorption. Various metal containing compounds have been safely used as medicinals for many years for review see Metal Toxicity in Mammals, vols. 1 2, Volgupal and Luckey, Plenum Press New York, 1978 . However, there is no disclosure in the prior art that any metal based compound other than gallium could be specifically employed for treatment of bone resorptive disorders. Platinum containing drugs have been used as anticancer drugs, and the use of platinum is known to induce a variety of metabolic abnormalities in blood, including reduced calcium and magnesium concentrations see Blachley and Hill, There is no general disclosure or suggestion in the prior art that pharmacologically effective amounts of pharmaceutically acceptable metal containing compounds directly decrease bone resorption. Thus the Bone tissue contains high concentrations of calcium, usually in the form of crystalline hydroxyapatite, i.e. Ca₁₀ PO₄ ₆ OH ₂. Hydroxyapatite and the calcium of the bone exist in equilibrium with body fluids, particularly blood. Although the calcium and hydroxyapatite are soluble in blood, the equilibrium is maintained in healthy individuals, along with a stable and intact bone matrix. Since bone is living tissue, it is constantly being remodeled. Certain bone cells, known as osteoblasts, promote bone formation. Other bone cells, known as osteoclasts, tend to cause bone dissolution. The biological process of calcification is critical in providing the mechanical strength for the skeleton and teeth. Pathological states associated with accelerated bone resorption and loss of bone mineral lead to disease characterized by skeletal dysfunction and life threatening metabolic disorders. Loss of bone mass from increased bone resorption results in accelerated loss of calcium into the blood. Accelerated bone loss is a major cause of illness in the United States which affects millions of individuals. When significant depletion of bone calcium occurs and the structural integrity of the skeleton is compromised, several diseases result. An example of a disease state associated with severe loss of bone mass is osteoporosis, a major cause of hip and vertebral fractures in older woman. Hypercalcemia, or increased blood calcium concentration, occurs frequently in patients who suffer from hyperparathyroidism or cancer. This bone resorptive disorder can lead to kidney failure, coma, and death. Bone metastasis, or the spread of cancer cells into bone, occurs in many patients with cancer and causes progressive bone erosion, fractures, and pain. All of these conditions would be ameliorated by drugs which decrease bone resorption and potentially increase bone tissue calcium content. Clearly, then, there has been a long standing need for a treatment which could prevent resorption of calcium from bone. Further, by affecting the balance between resorption and new bone formation, one would also expect that such drugs would increase the rate of calcium accretion in bone. It has been found that compounds containing the metal gallium, and gallium nitrate in particular, are effective in reducing excessive loss of bone calcium in humans. This method has been disclosed and patented by applicants U.S. Patent No, i.e. US A 4,529,593 7 16 85 the disclosure of which is incorporated by reference. There was no teaching until the present, however that other metal containing compounds could also decrease bone resorption. Other metal containing compounds, so defined by virtue of their relative position in the Periodic Table of the Elements, and their elemental electropositivity, malleability, and conductivity, also interact with bone cells or with the crystalline bone matrix and thereby favorably alter the balance between bone formation and resorption. This supposition has been proven by experiments disclosed herein. It has been found that metal containing compounds act on bone tissue to decrease the rate of calcium loss when resorption is stimulated. These metallic compounds retard the destruction of preexisting bone tissue so called osteolysis as a result of various disorders e.g., metastasis of cancer tumors hypercalcemia caused by cancer parathyroid hormone or lymphokine related compounds osteoporosis, periodontal disease or increased bone cell resorbing activity . The metallic compounds used have a low order of toxicity and are pharmaceutically acceptable. They are administered in sufficient dosages to be effective. The effective amount and route or administration e.g., intravenous, oral, topical, etc. of the particular compound will vary based upon the nature of the disease being treated, its severity, the age of the patient, and other factors which will be apparent to one skilled in the art. The following particulars of the invention describe preferred aspects thereof. Based on the teaching that gallium an earth metal of the Group IIIa elements was found to inhibit calcium loss from bone, the effects of various other metal compounds were evaluated for their ability to inhibit bone resorption. An in vitro assay system was used to examine the activity of these metal compounds. The following experiments were designed to determine if administration of metallic compounds can prevent bone resorption. Pregnant adult rats were injected with 0.2 0.4 mCi of ⁴⁵CaCl₂ on the 18th day of gestation. After 2 days of bone mineralization In Table 1, the dose dependent ability of parathyroid hormone PTH to cause calcium release from the fetal rat bones is summarized. PTH is a hormone produced by the parathyroid glands and is responsible for maintaining serum calcium levels largely by inducing calcium release from bone. The data in Table 1 and the subsequent experiments were obtained using the highly purified, biological active 1 34 amino acid fragment of human PTH. These data confirm that PTH causes release of ⁴⁵Ca from fetal rat bones at physiologically relevant levels and in a dose dependent manner. In Table 2, the effect of three salts of gallium metal are compared. Bone resorption in these experiments was induced by purified human PTH. In each case, bone resorption i.e., calcium release in the non gallium treated bones was increased more than 100 by PTH. In all cases, significant inhibition of calcium loss from bone resulted when gallium concentrations of 2.5 uM and greater were tested. These data also document that it is the elemental metal which is critical in order to effect bone resorption. The other elements to which the metal is complexed in this case, the ionic components of nitrate, acetate, and fluoride are not material to this activity. These components are relevant only insofar as they affect pharmaceutical acceptability of the compound. In Table 3, the ability of other metal compounds to block bone resorption was tested, via the methods described From these data, one concludes that these metal compounds were capable of preventing bone calcium release i.e., accelerated bone resorption at pharmacologically achievable concentrations. One skilled in the art will immediately see the applicability of these preferred embodiments to other compounds and situations. For example, gallium, platinum, and germanium all share properties common to metals. Hence, one skilled in the art would expect that other metal compounds, chemically defined because of their lustre, malleability, conductivity, electropositivity, and relative position in the Periodic Table of the Elements would also be effective in decreasing resorption of calcium from the crystalline matrix of bone. These metals would include those elements assigned groups known as the earth, rare earth, noble, alkali, and basic metals. These elements include metals numbers 13 71 of the periodic table and those with atomic weights ranging from 26 174. Most particularly, these metals include elements of the Groups Ib, IIIa of which gallium is a member , IIIb, IVa of which germanium is a member , IVb, Va, Vb, VIa, VIb, VIIa, VIIb, aid VIII of which platinum is a member . Additionally one would expect the composition and methods described herein to be applicable to similar tissues. Human bone is similar in many respects to bone of other animals. Hence the veterinary applications of this invention are clear. Similarly, the calcium in bones surrounding teeth makes it clear that this invention is applicable to treatment of periodontal disease. The link between a decrease in bone resorption and a resulting increase in bone strength has been attested to, and one skilled in the art will therefore see that the compositions and methods disclosed herein may be used to increase bone strength. In the practice of this invention, any of the standard ways of administering compositions to patients may be employed including concentrated rinses, gels, topical application, intravenous injection, including continuous infusion, oral, sublingual, rectal, or transdermal administration. In a preferred form of the invention using cisdiamminedichloroplatinum II cisplatin , intravenous, intramuscular, or subcutaneous injection supplies about 1 120 mg m² day to patients. Preferred embodiments of carboplatin by injection supplies 1 450 mg m² day to patients and even more preferably, 3 100 mg m² day. A preferred embodiment of germanium, used as spirogermanium, supplies about 0.5 to 100 mg m² day to patients when administered by injection. When administered orally, sublingually, rectally or transdermally, the compounds are administered in higher doses in amounts ranging from about 0.5 20 grams day. It is recognized that these preferred embodiments are provided only as examples and that one skilled in the art could refer to other metal containing compounds as having effective activities on bone resorption administered in pharmaceutically acceptable amounts. It is further recognized that the chemical entity to which the metal is bound or complexed e.g., an anion is not material to the anti resorptive action but is relevant only to the extent that it may improve its pharmaceutical acceptability e.g., reduced toxicity, increased bioavailability, improved stability in solution, etc. .