# Envelope and chain consisting of interconnected envelopes.

## Abstract
An envelope with contents especially for the mailing of confidential information, consists of a sealed mailing envelope 1 and an information carrier 2 incorporated inside the mailing envelope 1 . The information carrier consists of a sealed internal envelope and the information to be mailed can be incorporated on the inside of the internal envelope 2 . One or both sheets 16, 17 of the internal envelope 2 are therefore provided with copying means on the inside of the envelope. Along the surrounding edge of the mailing envelope 1 and or the internal envelope 2 the sheets 3, 4 and 16, 17 respectively of the envelope are bonded together. The adhesive layer between the sheets may partly take the form of two adjacent rows of adjacent glue spots 11 and 26 respectively . This enables on the one hand the evacuation of any air trapped in the mailing envelope 1 and or the internal envelope 2 and prevents on the other hand that an unauthorized person gains access to the information incorporated in the internal envelope 2 .

## Claims
1. Envelope with contents, especially for the mailing of confidential information, consisting of a substantially sealed mailing envelope 1 and an information carrier incorporated inside the external envelope, characterized in that the information carrier consists of a substantially sealed internal envelope 2 and the information can be incorporated on the inside of the internal envelope.

## Description
The invention relates to an envelope with contents, especially for the mailing of confidential information, consisting of a substantially sealed mailing envelope and an information carrier incorporated inside the mailing envelope. Such an envelope is known and is utilized for instance, for the mailing of personal information, which naturally is intended exclusively for the addressee. Initially, the known envelopes are interconnected in the form or a band or chain, a tear off perforation being provided between each successive envelope for tearing off the individual envelopes from the chain. Each individual envelope is sealed because the paper sheets constituting the envelope are bonded together along the surrounding edges of the envelope, the adhesive layer consisting of a continuous adhesive strip along both the side edges of the envelope and of adjacent glue spots along the top and bottom edges of the envelope, certain intermediate spaces being provided between the spots which serve to evacuate any air trapped in the envelope. This is necessary for the subsequent handling of the envelope. An information carrier is contained in each envelope, on which certain information can be incorporated. In the known envelope, the information carrier consists of a sheet of paper. A second sheet of paper is placed upon this sheet and a copying means is incorporated between the two sheets. Printing of the addresses on the envelopes in the chain and the information on the information carrier in each envelope is carried out by means of a computerized printer, via a removable sheet on the front of each envelope, which is provided on its reverse side with a copying means in the area where the address is to be printed. After the addresses and information have been printed, these sheets are removed and discarded. On the outside of the mailing envelope the address is visible, but the information to be mailed is invisible. This information is indeed incorporated on the information carrier inside the envelope, i.e., one one of the adjacent sheets of the information carrier. After the envelopes are separated from the chain, they are ready for mailing. The known envelope serves its purpose, but has the disadvantage that the information incorporated on the information carrier is insufficiently protected and can be accessed by unauthorized persons. With the known envelope it is possible to get access to the inside of the mailing envelope and consequently to the information incorporated on the information carrier and to read this information, without the mailing envelope being visibly damaged, as the sheets within the mailing envelope which serve on the one hand as information carrier and on the other hand as protective covers for the information, are in fact loose inside the mailing envelope. The known envelope is therefore not considered suitable for the mailing of for instance, personal identification numbers of bank account holders. The object of the invention is to obviate these disadvantages and to provide an envelope wherein the information contained is optimally protected. This object is achieved by the invention, with an envelope of the abovementioned type, which is characterized in that the information carrier consists of a substantially sealed internal envelope and the information can be incorporated on the inside of the internal envelope. It is thereby practically impossible that the information contained in the envelope can be accessed by unauthorized persons, without leaving clearly visible signs of damage, considering that both the mailing envelope and the internal envelope would have to be damaged in order to access the information. Preferably, the sheets constituting the mailing envelope are bonded together along at least a portion of the surrounding edge of the envelope and an adhesive layer is applied along the top and bottom edges of the mailing envelope, between the sheets of the envelope in the form of two rows of adjacent glue spots, the glue spots of one row being opposite the intermediate spaces between the glue spots of the other row. In this manner a mailing envelope is obtained, which is almost entirely sealed and the inside of which is very difficult to access from the outside, without leaving clearly visible signs of damage to the envelope but from which, possible trapped air might easily escape via the intermediate spaces provided between the glue spots. It is appropriate that the sheets constituting the internal envelope are bonded together along at least a portion of the surrounding edge of the internal envelope where an adhesive layer can be applied in the form of adjacent glue spots along the top and bottom edges of the internal envelope between the sheets of the envelope. Preferably, here also the glue spots are applied in two adjacent rows, the blue spots of one row being opposite the intermediate spaces between the glue spots of the other row. Such an internal envelope is on the one hand, almost entirely sealed, whereby the inside of the internal envelope is almost impossible to access without visible signs of damage to the envelope and from which on the other hand, possible trapped air can easily escape. In order to facilitate the opening of the internal envelope by the addressee, the internal envelope is provided at least near a portion of the surrounding edge, with a tear off perforation, the perforation being preferably located on the inside of the bonded surrounding edge of the internal envelope and along the entire surrounding edge of the internal envelope. It is appropriate that at least one of the sheets of the internal envelope is provided with a copying means on the inside of the envelope. In an economical embodiment of the envelope, the sheets of the internal envelope would consist of self copying paper, the active side of the sheets being located on the inside of the envelope. It is thereby possible that the information which is applied from the outside, for instance by means of a computerized printer, is incorporated on the information carrier inside the external envelope and is only visible at the inside of the internal envelope. In order to prevent the possibility that this personal information would be visible by some means at or on the outside of the mailing envelope, the sheets of the mailing envelope as well as the sheets of the internal envelope are printed with a raster like pattern and the mailing envelope can be provided with a removable front sheet. The invention also relates to a chain, consisting of interconnected envelopes with their contents, as described above. The invention will now be explained with reference to a practical example, with the help of the following drawings, wherein The embodiment of the envelope according to the invention shown in Figs. 1 and 2, for the mailing envelope 1 and an information carrier incorporated in the mailing envelope in the form of an internal envelope 2. The information can be incorporated on the inside of the internal envelope 2. The mailing envelope 1 is substantially sealed, by virtue of the fact that the sheets 3, 4 constituting the envelope are bonded together along the surrounding edge of the envelope 1. Along both the side edges 5, 6 of the envelope 1, the adhesive layer between sheets 3, 4 consists of a continuous adhesive strip 7 and 8 resp. Along the top and bottom edges 9 and 10 resp. of the envelope, the adhesive layer consists of glue spots 11 which are applied in two adjacent rows 12, 13 and 14, 15 resp., the glue spots of the rows 12 and 14 resp. being opposite the intermediate spaces between the glue spots of the rows 13 and 15 resp. The dimensions of the glue spots 11 are greater than the dimensions of the intermediate spaces between the glue spots 11. These intermediate spaces are necessary in order to evacuate any air trapped in the mailing envelope in relation to the subsequent handling of the envelope. The internal envelope 2 is also substantially sealed, by virtue of the fact that the sheets 16, 17 constituting the envelope are bonded together along the surrounding edge in the same way as in the case of the mailing envelope 1, by means of adhesive strips 18, 19 along both the side edges 20, 21 and by means of two rows 20, 23 and 24, 25 resp. of glue spots 26, applied along the top and bottom edges 27 and 28 respectively of the envelope 2. The glue spots of the rows 22 and 24 resp. are located opposite the intermediate spaces between the glue spots of the rows 23 and 25 resp. It will be obvious that it is extremely difficult to gain access to the inside of the mailing envelope 1 without leaving clearly visible signs of damage to this envelope. In the event that an attempt to gain access should nevertheless succeed, it is subsequently virtually impossible to also gain access to the inside of the internal envelope 2, without leaving clearly visible signs of damage to the internal envelope and to read the information contained therein. The information contained within the internal envelope 2, is therefore optimally protected and cannot be accessed by unauthorized persons. The internal envelope 2 is provided with a tear off perforation 29, along the inside of the glued surrounding edges. This enables the addressee to easily open the internal envelope, by simply tearing off the glued edges of the internal envelope 2. The incorporation of address on the mailing envelopes 1 and the incorporation of information on the insides of the internal envelopes 2, is carried out by means of for example, a computerized printer a band or chain of 30 envelopes connected to each other are transported through the printer. For this purpose, the envelopes are provided with a removable front sheet 31, the rear side of which is provided with a copying means 32, in the area where the addresses have to be printed on the mailing envelopes 1. The insides of the sheets 16, 17 of the internal envelopes 2 are provided with a copying means. Preferably, the sheets 16, 17 consist of self copying paper, the active sides of the sheets being located at the inside of the internal envelopes. After the envelopes have been transported through the printer, the front sheet 31 is removed and discarded. On the outside of the mailing envelopes 1, the addresses are now visible, while the information to be mailed is contained on one of the sheets 16, 17 preferably on the rearmost sheet 17 of the internal envelope 2 and is not visible from the outside. In order to be certain that the information is not accessible even when the envelope is held against a light, the sheets 3, 4 of the mailing envelope 1 and the sheets 16, 17 of the internal envelope 2 are printed with a raster like pattern. After the envelopes have been torn off the chain 30, for which purpose a perforation 33 is provided between each successive envelope in the chain 30, the envelopes are ready for mailing.