# Process for producing a free amino acid from an alkali metal salt thereof.

## Abstract
A process for producing a free amino acid from an alkali metal salt of said amino acid, which comprises using at least one electrolytic cell having a cation exchange membrane between the anode and the cathode to separate the anode chamber and the cathode chamber, circulating through the anode chamber an anolyte which is an aqueous solution containing 1 an amino acid having one amino group and one carboxyl group and 2 an alkali metal salt there of, while keeping the pH of the anolyte at 9.5 or below by adding to the anolyte said alkali metal salt or an aqueous solution containing said alkali metal salt, circulating through the cathode chamber a catholyte which is an aqueous alkali metal hydroxide solution, and passing a direct current between the two electrodes to form a free amino acid in the anolyte and an alkali metal hydroxide in the catholyte.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A process for producing a free amino acid from an alkali metal salt of said amino acid, which comprises using at least one electrolytic cell having a cationexchange membrane between the anode and the cathode to separate the anode chamber and the cathode chamber, circulating through the anode chamber an anolyte which is an aqueous solution containing 1 an amino acid having one amino group and one carboxyl group and 2 an alkali metal salt there of, while keeping the pH of the anolyte at 9.5 or below by adding to the anolyte said alkali metal salt or an aqueous solution containing said alkali metal salt, circulating through the cathode chamber a catholyte which is an aqueous alkali metal hydroxide solution, and passing a direct current between the two electrodes to form a free amino acid in the anolyte and an alkali metal hydroxide in the catholyte. 2. A process according to Claim 1, whereint he pH of the anolyte is kept at 9.0 or below. 3. A process according to Claim 1 or 2, wherein 1 an acid or acids stronger than said amino acid contained in the anolyte or 2 alkali metal salt or salts of the acid or acids 1 are contained in the anolyte as a supporting electrolyte. 4. A process according to Claim 3, wherein the concentration of the supporting electrolyte contained in the anolyte is 0.1 to 3.0 N. 5. A process according to Claim 3 or 4, wherein the supporting electrolyte is sulfuric acid or a salt thereof. 6. A process according to any of Claims 3 to 5, wherein the ratio of alkali metal ion concentration M to hydrogen ion concentration H in anolyte, namely, M H is kept at 50 or above. 7. A process according to any of Claims 3 to 5, wherein the ratio of alkali metal ion concentration M J to hydrogen ion concentration H in anolyte, namely, M H is kept at 200 or above. 8. A process according to Claims 1 to 7, wherein the amino acid contains no thioether group. 9. A process according to any of Claims 1 to 7, wherein the amino acid is glycine, O alanine, ss p alanine or o phenylalanine.

## Description
PROCESS FOR PRODUCING A FREE AMINO ACID FROM AN ALKALI METAL SALT THEREOF This invention relates to a process for electrolytically producing a neutral amino acid having one amino group and one carboxyl group and an alkali metal hydroxide from an alkali metal salt of said amino acid.More specifically, the present invention relates to a process for elecrolytically producing a free neutral amino acid having one amino group and one carboxyl group and an alkali metal hydroxide from an alkali metal salt of said amino acid, with low electric power consumption and without causing the decompositional loss of said amino acid. Many amino acids such as glycine, O alanine, alanine, O phenylalanine and the like can be produced by subjecting an alkali metal aminate hereinafter abbreviated to an aminate obtained from a reaction process or the like to ion exchange to convert the aminate to the corresponding amino acid. This ion exchange is conducted mainly by either of the following methods. 1 A method wherein an aqueous aminate solution is contacted with a weakly acidic, cation exchange resin of type. 2 A method wherein an aqueous aminate solution is neutralized with a mineral acid and the. resulting mineral acid salt is removed by fractional crystallization or by electrical dialysis. In these methods, however, an amount of acid approximately equivalent to the amount of alkali metal ion contained in the aminate solution used as a raw material is consumed for regeneration of the resin used, in the method 1 , or for neutralization, in the method 2 .Moreover, a waste solution containing a large amount of a salt is formed in any of the above methods. Since this waste solution ordinarily contains organic substances, particularly nitrogen containing organic substances in a relatively high concentration, the treatment disposal of the waste solution is not easy. Meanwhile, there is already developed an electrolytic process for producing an alkali metal hydroxide from an inorganic salt such as sodium chloride or the like, which comprises using an ion exchange membrane as a separating membrane. According to an analogy based on this process, it is anticipated that if an aqueous aminate solution is electrolyzed using the solution as an anolyte, in an electrolytic cell having a cationexchange membrane for separating the anode chamber and the cathode chamber, the aminate will be converted to the corresponding amino acid and the corresponding alkali metal hydroxide with the amino acid being available in the anolyte and the alkali metal hydroxide being available in the catholyte.If this analogy is realized as anticipated, no acid is required the alkali metal hydroxide is recovered and there occurs no formation of a waste solution containing a large amount of a salt. Electrolysis of an aqueous aminate solution using the solution as an anolyte, however, causes decomposition of the amino acid. This not only results in the loss of the amino acid in an innegligible amount but also incurs in many cases coloring and generation of unusual odor in the anolyte. It is said that carboxylic acids also undergo anodic reactions and are decomposed however, amino acids are decomposed more easily by electrolysis. In electrolysis of an organic acid salt to produce the corresponding free acid and the corresponding alkali metal hydroxide, it has been believed that a so called three compartment electrolytic cell based on the Bodamer s proposal Japanese Patent Publication No.5613 1955 must be used which has two cation exchange membranes between the cathode and the anode. In this process, an aqueous mineral acid solution is passed through the anode chamber an aqueous alkali metal hydroxide solution is passed through the cathode chamber an aqueous solution containing an alkali metal salt of an organic acid is passed through the intermediate chamber separated from the two electrodes by the two cation exchange membranes and electrolysis is effected in this state. In this process, neither the organic acid nor the salt thereof is contacted with the anode consequently, there is no loss of organic acid due to anodic reaction.The fact that this process is utilizable also for the purpose of producing from an aminate the corresponding amino acid and the corresponding alkali metal hydroxide, is already ascertained by one of the present inventors Japanese Patent Publication No.000755 1983 . In the above three compartment electrolytic process, however, an electric current must be passed through two ion exchange membranes and three solution chambers requiring a high voltage and a large electric power for electrolysis. Further, the electrolytic cell inevitably has a complex structure resulting in a high construction cost. The present inventors made an extensive study in order to find out 1 whether or not, in electrolytic production of an amino acid from a corresponding aminate, a so called two compartment electrolytic cell using only one ion exchange membrane can be used under certain conditions without decomposing the amino acid and 2 whether or not said electrolytic cell is actually operable under such conditions. As a result, the present invention has been attained. The present invention will be explained in detail by referring to the accompanying drawings. In the accompanying drawings, Fig. 1 is a diagram showing one example of the electrolytic apparatus used in the present invention process and Fig. 2 is a graph showing a relation between the pH of aqueous glycine solution used in electrolysis and the percentage of glycine lost due to electrolytic decomposition. In each unit cell constituting the electrolytic apparatus used in the present invention process, a cation exchange membrane 3 is provided between an anode 1 and a cathode 2 to separate an anode chamber a and a cathode chamber 5. There is circulated, through the anode chamber of each cell, an anolyte A, namely, an aqueous solution containing an amino acid and an alkali metal salt thereof. The anolyte may contain, besides said amino acid and said salt, an acid or acids stronger than said amino acid, such as organic acids e.g. acetic acid or mineral acids e.g. sulfuric acid , or alkali metal salts thereof. The anolyte must be formulated so as to have a pH of 9.5 or below.It is desirable that the anolyte be further formulated so that the ratio of the alkali metal ion concentration M to the hydrogen ion concentration H , namely, M tH is at least 50.There is circulated, through the cathode chamber, a catholyte C, namely, an alkali metal hydroxide solution.This alkali metal hydroxide preferably is hydroxide of the same alkali metal as constitutes the aminate as a raw material. While circulating the anolyte and the catholyte through the anode chamber and the cathode chamber, respectively, a direct current is passed between the two electrodes. At the anode, water is decomposed to generate oxygen and hydrogen ions. The hydrogen ion replaces the alkali metal ion of the aminate forming the corresponding amino acid. The alkali metal ion which has become free moves to the cathode chamber through the cation exchange membrane. Oxygen leaves the anode chamber together with the anolyte, is separated from the anolyte at a gas liquid separator 6 and is taken out of the system. The anolyte separated from oxygen is circulated into the anode chamber. At the cathode, water is decomposed to generate hydroxyl ions and hydrogen. The hydroxyl ion combines with the alkali metal ion which has moved from the anode chamber, forming the alkali metal hydroxide. Hydrogen leaves the cathode chamber together with the catholyte, is separated from the catholyte at a gas liquid separator 7 and is taken out of the system. The catholyte separated from hydrogen is circulated into the cathode chamber. With the progress of the above electrolysis, the aminate in the anolyte is gradually converted to the corresponding amino acid the alkali metal ion concentration M in the anolyte decreases and the pH of the anolyte comes down, in other words, the hydrogen ion concentration H increases. Therefore, in order to keep the pH and, desirably, also M H at the respective ranges specified above, there is newly added to the anolyte an aqueous solution F containing the same aminate as in the anolyte hereinafter the solution F is referred to as an original solution . Since this increases the amount of the anolyte, an anolyte amount exceeding that required for circulation is taken out as an ion exchanged solution E.It is desirable that the operation of adding the original solution and the operation of taking out the ion exchanged solution be conducted continuously. However, these operations may be conducted intermittently when the total volume of the anolyte circulation system is large or when the anolyte circulation system comprises a storage tank for the anolyte. Meanwhile in the cathode chamber, water is consumed by the cathodic reaction and simultaneously an alkali metal hydroxide is formed. Therefore, water is added to the catholyte so that the alkali metal hydroxide concentration can be kept at a proper level. Since this increases the amount of the catholyte, a catholyte amount exceeding that required for circulation is taken out of the system as a recovered alkali R. The recovered alkali R may be used in reaction processes, etc. as it is or after having been concentrated. The concentration of alkali metal hydroxide at catholyte is decided in view of the performance characteristics of the ion exchange membrane used, application of recovered alkali, etc.However, the concentration is desired to be at least 0.5N to ensure a sufficient conductivity. In general, alkali metal salts of neutral amino acids show a pH of 11 or above in their aqueous solutions. When these aqueous solutions are subjected to electrolytic ion exchange, the pH of solution decreases as the proportion of free amino acid formed increases. The amino acid, however, tends to decompose as mentioned above, when contacted with the anode while the pH of the solution is still high. Even if the loss of the amino acid due to this decomposition is small, there occur other disadvantageous phenomena of 1 coloring of solution and 2 generation of unusual odor. By contrast, in the present invention process, electrolysis is conducted with the pH of the anolyte being kept at 9.5 or below by adding to the anolyte circulated in a relatively large amount, an original solution of high pH keeping step with the progress of electrolysis. As the extensive study by the present inventors found out, the above electrolysis can reduce the decomposition of amino acid to a negligible level.Fig. 2 shows a relation between the pH of solution and the decomposition loss of glycine per unit of current passed when various aqueous solutions containing glycine and sodium glycinate in various proportions have been subjected to electrolysis by passing between the two electrodes an electric current equivalent to the amount of glycine radical contained in the solution. It is appreciated from Fig. 2 that the loss of glycine increases sharply with pH above 9.5 loss. Although the degree of amino acid decomposition varries with the kind of amino acid, the type of anode used, current density, co existing substances, etc., the degree is affected predominantly by the pH of the solution to be electrolyzed. Therefore, a requirement of pH 9.5 or below holds universally.Since amino acids are more stable at lower pH, it is desirable that operation of electrolysis be carried out at a pH as low as possible as long as other conditions allow. The present invention process enables electrolysis of alkali metal salts of almost all kinds of neutral amino acids. Exceptionally, the present invention can not be applied to amino acids having a thioether bond such as methionine, because these amino acids decompose even at low pH to incur an inneglibgible extent of loss. The ion exchanged solution taken out in the present invention process is part of the anolyte and accordingly has a pH of 9.5 or below which is same as that of the anolyte. Therefore, the most part of the amino acid contained in the ion exchanged solution takes a form of free amino acid and only the small part takes a form of aminate. The ratio of aminate to free amino acid is determined by the pH of ion exchanged solution, namely, anolyte. For example, aqueous solutions containing sodium alanate and alanine at proportions of 1 4, 1 9 and 1 99 have pH of 9.5, 9.07 and 8.04, respectively, at room temperature. In some cases, these pH values change slightly by the coexistence of other electrolytes. Neutral amino acids show isoelectric points of about 6.As appreciated from the above example, the most part of the amino acid contained in the ion exchanged solution takes a form of free amino acid at a fairly wide pH range including the isoelectric point of the amino acid. Separation of an amino acid from the ion exchanged solution wherein the most part of the aminate supplied has been converted to the corresponding free amino acid can be done easily by concentration, crystallization, etc. In this separation operation, the aminate which has not been converted to the corresponding amino acid remains in a mother liquid therefore, it can be added to the original solution for reuse in electrolysis.In some cases, electrolysis is conducted at a pH close to the isoelectric point of an amino acid to be obtained, to expect a very high conversion percentage from aminate to amino acid, because it makes operations such as crystallization and the like easier. In conducting electrolysis on commercial basis, operation at a current density of certain level or higher is necessary, because otherwise a large electrolytic apparatus is required and accordingly too large an amount of money is needed for the installation of the apparatus.In the case of amino acids produced according to the present invention process, it is desirable that operation be carried out at a current dnsity of at least 10 A dmê, preferably at least 15 A dm2. It is to be noted, however, that in an aqueous solution containing only an amino acid and an alkali metal salt thereof, electrolysis at a pH specified by the present invention process at a high current density often requires too high an electrolytic voltage. It is particularly true when electrolysis is conducted at a low pH in order to obtain a high conversion from aminate to amino acid. This is because an aqueous amino acid solution has a very low conductivity while an aqueous aminate solution has a relatively high conductivity. In order to conduct electrolysis efficiently and economically, it is necessary to operate by keeping the conductivity of anolyte high. For such operation, coexistence of other electrolytes as supporting electrolytes is effective. As the supporting electrolyte, there can be used, for example, acids stronger than the amino acid to be produced, such as acetic acid, iminodicarboxylic acid, phosphoric acid, sulfuric acid or the like, or alkali metal salts of said acids. It is desirable that the alkali metal contained in the supporting electrolyte be same as that constituting the raw material aminate. Otherwise, the alkali metal hydroxide recovered becomes a mixture of two kinds of alkali metal hydroxides. If the situation allows the utilization of such a mixed alkali metal hydroxide, the supporting electrolyte may contain an alkali metal different from that in the raw material aminate. For example, an aqueous alkali metal aminate solution obtained by subjecting an amino nitrile produced from a reaction of aldehyde cyanhydrin with ammonia to hydrolysis with an alkali, ordinarily contains, as a side product, a small amount of an alkali metal salt of a corresponding iminodicarboxylic acid. This side product satisfies the above mentioned requirement for supporting electrolyte. Such an impurity can function as a supporting electrolyte by remaining as it is. In many cases, it is not sufficient and addition of other supporting electrolyte is preferred. Desirable as the supporting electrolyte to be added are those which remain stable when contacted with an anode, such as sulfuric acid, phosphoric acid and their alkali metal salts. When an anolyte to be electrolyzed contains a supporting electrolyte and has a pH higher than the isoelectric point of the amino acid constituting the aminate contained in the anolyte, the aminate is predominantly subjected to ion exchange by electrolysis and is converted to the corresponding amino acid and the supporting electrolyte remains as it is, i.e., in the original salt form. The anolyte containing a supporting electrolyte can have a pH lower than the isoelectric point of said amino acid. In this case, since the aminate has completely been converted to the corresponding free amino acid, part of the supporting electrolyte is electrolyzed to form the corresponding acid in the anolyte and the corresponding alkali metal hydroxide in the catholyte.This acid reacts with the alkali metal ion of the aminate contained in the original solution newly added, whereby the acid returns to the original salt form and simultaneously the amino acid is liberated.As a result, formation of the free amino acid and the alkali metal hydroxide progresses smoothly. Further, there is little fear that the amino acid is decomposed at the anode, because no amino acid is negatively charged at pH lower than the isoelectric point of the amino acid. When the pH of anolyte is too low and the ratio of alkali metal ion M to hydrogen ion concentration H , namely, M H is smallm hydrogen ion having a large equivalent conductivity moves to the cathode chamber through the cation exchange membrane and carry a considerable part of the electric current. Since this part of electric current is an ineffective current which has no contribution to the object of the present invention, the current efficiency of electrolysis is reduced when its ratio to the total current is large. Such a reduction of curent efficiency tends to appear when the supporting electrolyte is a strong acid or a salt thereof.Through investigation on numerous systems the present inventors found out that the reduction of current efficiency due to said unavailable current can be prevented by formulating the anolyte so as to have a large value of M H 3. According to the finding by the present inventors, M H is desirably at least 50, more desirably at least 200. For example, in the case of pH 3, H is 0.001 M and hence M is desirably 0.2 M or above. When the anolyte has a pH lower than the isoelectric point of the amino acid contained therein, it also occurs that part of the amino acid is charged positively and tends to move to the cathode chamber. The amino acid which has moved to the cathode chamber can be recovered and accordingly is not lost if the alkali recovered as a catholyte is reused in the reaction step.This recycling of amino acid, however, calls for more complicated control of operation. The amount of amino acid passing through cation exchange membrane is affected by the molecular weight of amino acid and the type of membrane. Hence, selection of membrane used is important.In order to keep at a low level the amount of moved amino acid compared with the electric current passed, a large value of M H 3 is also effective. Higher concentrations of amino acid, aminate and supporting electrolyte at anolyte are preferable because an anolyte of higher conductivity can be obtained.However, these concentrations have respective limits because of their solubilities. In general, amino acids have substantially increased solubilities at higher temperatures and an aqueous solution containing a certain concentration of the amino acid has a higher conductivity at higher temperatures. Therefore, it is desirable to conduct electrolysis at a temperature as high as possible within the limits of the structure of apparatus and the durability posed by material used therein. A higher concentration of the supporting electrolyte reduces the required electrolytic voltage to a lower level until the concentration reaches a certain upper limit, although there is a fear that the higher concentration makes more difficult the separation of formed amino acid from ion exchanged solution. In spite of this fear, in view of the large effect of addition of supporting electrolyte reducing the electric power required for electrolysis, it is desirable in some cases that electrolysis be conducted in the presence of supporting electrolytes of an amount equivalent to amino acid or of a larger amount. This is particularly true when an amino acid of low solubility is handled.An amino acid of high purity can be separated even from an ion exchanged solution containing such a large amount of supporting electrolytes, by means of repeated fractional crystallization or electrical dialysis for desalting followed by crystallization. The most part of the supporting electrolyte can be recovered in the form of a solid or a solution, according to fractional crystallization or electrical dialysis and can then be reused.When an inexpensive salt is used as a supporting electrolyte, there is no need of recovering it. An optimum concentration of the supporting electrolytes is determined in view of all the above mentioned matters and ordinarily it is 0.1 to 3.0 N. While aqueous solutions containing an alkali metal salt of a neutral amino acid have, in general, a pH of 11 or above, the anolyte used in the present invention process containing such an alkali metal salt must be kept at a pH of 9.5 or below. Accordingly, it is impossible in the present invention process to conduct a so called once through operation wherein an original solution is passed through the cell only once for electrolysis, or a so called batchwise circulation operation wherein an original solution is circulated for electrolysis until a desired conversion is reached.When a large amount of an alkali metal aminate is electrolyzed according to the present invention process, there must ordinarily be employed a so called partial circulation operation as shown in Fig. 1 wherein an excessive amount of a circulating anolyte is continuously taken out as an ion exchanged solution while supplying an original solution F to the anolyte circulation system. Supporting electrolytes, when used, can be added to the original solution beforehand or to the anolyte circulation system during operation. As mentioned previously, the original solution and the suporting electrolytes must be supplied or added in such amounts that the pH of the anolyte is constantly kept at 9.5 or below and further the value of CM I CH I becomes desirably at least 50, more desirably at least 200. In knowing the value of M H , periodic analysis of the anolyte is not necessary, and the value can be known by measuring the pH and the conductivity of anolyte and by comparing the measurement results with the reference data previously obtained for the anolyte system. The conductivity can be obtained also from the relation between current density and electrolytic voltage. The value of M 1 H can be known from the pH alone when the ratio of the aminate to be supplied and the supporting electrolyte to be supplied is predetermined. Thus, control of the operational conditions required in the present invention process is easy.It is possible to provide a storage tank in the course of the circulation system, or to supply the original solution intermittently to keep the anolyte pH within a required range, or to mix part of the ionexchanged solution with the original solution in an independent tank and then supplying the mixture to the circulation system. All of these operations can be regarded as a modification of the partial circulation operation mentioned previously. It is desirable that both the anolyte and the catholyte be circulated in amounts as large as possible in order to prevent the increase of electrical resistance due to the shielding effect caused by bubbles of the gases generated at electrode surfaces. The circulation amount desirably is at least 0.5 liter per 1 AH. The apparent amount of circulation flowing through the external path of the circulation system can be reduced by constructing the cell so as to allow convection inside the electrode chamber as well as gas liquid separation.In this case, too, the apparent circulation amount of anolyte must be determined so that the solution in the anode chamber can satisfy the aforementioned requirements for pH and M 3 H 3. It is desirable that the anode of the electrolytic apparatus used in the present invention process has a small overpotential during oxygen generation. For example, titanium having on the surface a catalyst layer composed mainly of iridium oxide is suitable as the anode. Suitable as the cation exchange membrane are perfluorocarbon type cation exchange membranes such as commercially available Nafion brand name . Various metals can be used as the cathode. Of them, nickelplated iron is least expensive and gives a good performance. Integration of many of such unit cells into an apparatus capable of conducting electrolysis on a commercial basis can be done based on the technique already established in the field of sodium chloride electrolysis. As far as aforementioned operational conditions are maintained, the present invention process can be operated also as a so called SPE solid polymer electrode electrolytic process wherein a porous anode or a cathode or both of them are integrated with a cationexchange membrane and an anolyte or a catholyte or both of them are circulated behind the electrode s to conduct electrolysis. However, the SPE electrolytic process can not be employed on a commercial basis at present because no such material is commercially available yet, and further development is expected. In summary, the following matters have been clarified in the present invention. 1 At first and most importantly, conversion of an aminate to the corresponding amino acid while reducing the decomposition of the amino acid to an negligible level is possible by conducting electrolysis while adding an aqueous alkali metal aminate solution to a circulation system of an anolyte containing said aminate and a corresponding amino acid and kept at a pH lower than 9.5. 2 Electrolysis at a low voltage is possible even when a high current density is employed and a high conversion is expected, by allowing one or more supporting electrolytes to coexist in the anolyte. 3 The reduction of current efficiency and the transfer of amino acid to cathode chamber can be prevented by keeping the ratio of alkali metal ion concentration M to hydrogen ion concentration namely, M H 3 in anolyte desirably at 50 or above, more desirably at 200 or above. These matters and their combined effects have newly been found out by the present inventors. As a result, production of a free amino acid from an alkali metal aminate according to electrolytic ion exchange which had been believed to be possible only by using a three chamber electrolytic cell, has become possible by using a simpler and less expensive two compartment electrolytic cell and moreover at a lower voltage. Thus, the present invention has a big significance. Next, the embodiments and effects of the present invention will be explained in detail by way of Examples and Comparative Examples. In the followingExamples and Comparative Examples, experiments were conducted using electrolytic cell having an effective sectional area of 1 dmê wherein the anode was a titanium plate coated with iridium oxide, the cathode was nickelplated iron and the cation exchange membrane was Nafion 315 or 901 trade name manufactured by Du Pont.Example 1 and Comparative Example 1 A 2M aqueous i alanine solution was added to a 2M aqueous sodium i alanate solution, whereby 5 kinds of aqueous solutions having the ratios of sodium o alanate to O alanine, of 1 0, 1 1, 1 5, 1 9 and 1 19 were prepared. Using one of these solutions as an anolyte and a 2N aqueous sodium hydroxide solution as a catholyte, electrolytic ion exchange was conducted while circulating each of said solutions kept at 600C and passing a direct current at 4V between the two electrodes, until the pH of the anolyte became about 7.0. The ionexchange membrane used was Nafion 315.The pH of the anolyte before electrolysis, the recovery percentage of o alanine in anolyte and the percentage of d alanine moved to catholyte both as measured by analyses of anolyte and catholyte after electrolysis, the total recovery percentage of alanine as a sum of the previous two percentages, and the properties of anolyte after electrolysis are shown in Table 1.As appreciated from the table, when a solution having a pH above 9.5 is electrolyzed as an anolyte, the loss of d alanine due to decomposition, the coloring of anolyte and the generation of unusual odor in anolyte are striking. Table 1 EMI17.1 Experimental SEP Ratio SEP of SEP pH SEP of SEP alpha Alanine SEP recovery SEP percentage SEP Percentage SEP Properties tb number SEP sodium SEP anolyte SEP of SEP of SEP anolyte tb alpha alanate SEP before SEP alpha Alanine SEP alpha Alanine SEP Total SEP alpha alanine SEP after tb to SEP alpha alanine SEP electrolysis SEP remaining SEP transferred SEP recovery SEP decomposed SEP electrolysis tb in SEP anolyte SEP to SEP catholyte SEP percentage SEP tb SEP SEP tb 1 SEP 1 SEP SEP 0 SEP 11.5 SEP 85 SEP 0 SEP 85 SEP 15 SEP Coloring SEP and tb generation SEP of tb Com SEP unusual SEP odor tb parative SEP were SEP high. tb Example SEP 2 SEP 1 SEP SEP 1 SEP 10.0 SEP 95 SEP 0 SEP 95 SEP 5 SEP Coloring SEP and tb generation SEP of tb unusual SEP odor tb were SEP high. tb 3 SEP 1 SEP SEP 4 SEP 9.5 SEP 99 SEP 0 SEP 99 SEP 1 SEP Slightly tb Example SEP 4 SEP 1 SEP SEP 9 SEP 9.07 SEP 100 SEP 0 SEP 100 SEP 0 SEP Very SEP slightly tb colored. tb 5 SEP 1 SEP SEP 19 SEP 8.7 SEP 99 SEP 1 SEP 100 SEP 0 SEP No SEP coloring. tb Example 2 To an aqueous solution containing sodium alanate collected from an Ot alanine production process concentration of g alanine radical 2.1 M was added sodium sulfate as a supporting electrolyte so that the equivalent ratio of sodium sulfate to i alanine radical became 0.2, whereby an original solution was prepared.The concentration of sodium sulfate in the original solution was about 0.42 N. Part of the original solution was subjected to electrolytic ion exchange using a three compartment electrolytic cell until the pH of anolyte became 6. 1 liter of the resulting solution was charged into the anolyte circulation tank of a two compartment electrolytic cell, and a 2N aqueous sodium hydroxide solution was charged into the catholyte circulation tank of the electrolytic cell. While pump circulating the anolyte and the catholyte both kept at 600C and passing a direct current of 15 A current density 15 A dm2 between the two electrodes, the original solution was fed to the anode chamber of the electrolytic cell so that the pH of the anolyte could be maintained at 6 to 7. The cation exchange membrane used was Nafion 315.After 9 liters of the original solution had been fed, the total amount of each of the anolyte and the catholyte was recovered and analyzed. The cell voltage was 4.7 V the current efficiency as obtained from the recovered amount of sodium hydroxide was 82 and the recovery percentage of alanine was as follows. g Alanine in anolyte 99 Oc Alanine in catholyte 1 Total recovery percentage 100 Example 3 Using the same aqueous sodium O alanate solution as used in Example 2, electrolytic ion exchange was conducted in the same manner as in Example 2 except that no supporting electrolyte was used. The cell voltage was 9.8 V the current efficiency was 80 and the recovery percentage of d alanine was as follows. O Alanine in anolyte 99 o Alanine in catholyte 1 Total recovery percentage 100 Decompositional loss of O alanine is seen neither in Example 2 nor in Example 3. However, the effect of sodium sulfate added as a supporting electrolyte is clearly seen when the cell voltages of Examples 1 and 2 are compared.Example 4 To a 3M aqueous sodium glycinate solution was added sodium sulfate as a supporting electrolyte so that the equivalent ratio of sodium sulfate to glycine radical became 0.5, whereby an original solution was prepared. The concentration of sodium sulfate in the original solution was about 0.2 N. Separately, there was prepard an aqueous solution containing the same concentrations of glycine radical and sodium sulfate as in the original solution but having a pH of 6, and this solution was charged into the anolyte circulation tank having an overflow pipe. A 2N aqueous sodium hydroxide solution was charged into the catholyte circulation tank.While pump circulating the anolyte and the catholyte both kept at 700C and passing a direct current of 20 A current density 20 A dm2 between the two electrodes, the original solution was fed so that the pH of the anolyte could be maintained at 6 to 7 and the overflown anolyte was recovered as an ion exchanged solution.The cathion exchange membrane used was Nafion 901. The cell voltage was 4.4 V the current efficiency was 95 and the recovery percentage of glycine was as follows. Glycine in anolyte 90 Glycine in catholyte 9 Total recovery percentage 99 Comparative Example 2 An ion exchanged solution was obtained by repeating the same procedure as in Example 4 except that the pH of anolyte was kept at 10.5. The cell voltage was 4.2 V the current efficiency was 95 and the recovery percentage of glycine was as follows. Glycine in anolyte 97 Glycine in catholyte 0 Total recovery percentage 97 The ion exchange percentage of ion exchanged solution was 40 and the proportion of glycine lost to glycine formed by the ion exchange was 7.5 .Example 5 To a 0.12 M aqueous sodium phenylalanate solution was added sodium sulfate as a supporting electrolyte so that the equivalent ratio of sodium sulfate to phenylalanine radical became 2, whereby an original solution was prepared. The concentration of sodium sulfate in original solution was 0.24 N. An aqueous solution containing the same concentrations of phenylalanine radical and sodium sulfate as in the original solution but having a pH 6 was charged into the anolyte circulation tank as an initial anolyte. A direct current of 15 A was passed between the two electrodes. Electrolytic ion exchange was conducted using the same procedure as in Example 4 except the difference in current density. The cell voltage was 5.2 V the current efficiency was 84 and the recovery percentage of phenylalanine was 100 the total amount of phenylalanine was present in the anolyte .