# DIGITAL SIGNAL RECORDING AND REPRODUCING SYSTEM

## Claims
Digitales Aufzeichnungs und Wiedergabesystem das aufweist

## Description
The present invention relates to a system designed suitably for the digital dubbing of a reproduced signal which constitutes a part of a system designed for the conversion of a video signal into a digital signal and the recording of the digital signal on plural number of channels by the magnetic or optical means of recording. As an example of the system for converting the video signal into the digital signal and recording the digital signal on the recording medium by the magnetic or optical means, there is the digital video tape recorder. It is extremely difficult for the code obtained form the video signal to be recorded, for example, by a single magnetic head, since such code constitutes the high speed data of 100 Mb second or higher. In order to cope with this problem, the technique which enables the code to be distributed for the plural number of channels and recorded simultaneously using the plural number of magnetic heads is used. As for the method of the distribution of the video code, there are the following three methods as have been proposed by Hirano et al. in the paper entitled A Study on Variable Speed Reproduction of the Digital VTR in SMPTE Journal, Vol. 92, No. 6 June, 1983 pp.636 641. For example, there are the following three methods for the distribution of the video code into the three channels A, B and C. In the case of the aforementioned video code distribution method, however, is intended for the distribution by channel of what is called the composite signal consisting of the luminance signal and the chrominance signal which have undergone the processing for the frequency division multiplexing just like the case of the NTSC signal. On the other hand, for the recording of the high quality picture, it is considered preferable for the luminance signal and the chrominance signal to be recorded separately instead of being processed for the frequency division multiplexing. As for what is called the component signal such as that discussed in the above, there is no preceding publicly known example as far as the method of the optimization of the distribution by the channel is concerned. Consequently, there is no preceding publicly known method as to the digital dubbing of the reproduced signal relating to said method of video code distribution. US A 4 456 930 discloses a method of recording and reproducing a video signal in component form with respect to a magnetic tape, which includes the steps of converting the video signal into digital form distributing the digitized video signal to a plurality of channels simultaneously recording the digitalized video signal in eight parallel tracks extending obliquely on the tape without guard bands therebetween and with the digitized video signal in alternate ones of the tracks being recorded with a first azimuth angle and the digitized video signal in the remaining tracks being recorded with a second different azimuth angle reproducing the digitized video signal from the eight parallel tracks grouping the reproduced digitized video signal into two groups, one group including only those portions of the reproduced digitized video signal that were recorded with the first azimuth angle, and the other group including only those portions of the reproduced digitized video signal that were recorded with the second azimuth angle and processing the reproduced digitized video signal separately for each group. Apparatus for performing the described method is also provided. An object of the present invention is to provide a dubbing system suited for the dubbing of the reproduced signal as the part of the system designed for recording the luminance signal and the chrominance signal, which have been converted into the digital codes separately, by distributing said signals among a plural number of channels. This object is achieved by the subject matter claimed in claims 1 3 respectively. Unlike these features claimed, the cited prior art does not suggest to provide, in a digital recording and reproducing system, terminal means for outputting reproduced In the case of the system relating to the present invention, the number of the channels for the recording of the signal is larger than the number of the color video signals luminance signal and chrominance signal . According to the present invention, for the dubbing by the system characterized by said method, the output terminal means for the dubbing signals is provided for the state where the luminance signal and the chrominance signal are converted into the digital codes separately. When the dubbing signals would be obtained from the digital signals after the channel distribution and before the channel combination, the connection lines and the change over switches which are as many as the number of the channels are needed, and this causes the problems such as the complexity of the system and the resultant fall of the reliability. Therefore, according to the present invention, digital dubbing signals are fed in before the channel distribution and are taken out in the same digital format after the channel combination, so that, even when the number of the channels is increased, the required number of the connection lines and that of the change over switches for the dubbing are only as many as those of the original video signals luminance signal and chrominance signal , whereby not only the reliability of the system can be improved but also the number of the connection lines and that of the change over switches for the dubbing can be minimized. In the accompanying drawings, Fig. 1 is a block diagram showing one of the embodiments of the present invention, Figs. 2A, 2B and 2C show the states of the signal at different stages of the embodiment shown in Fig. 1, respectively, and Fig. 3 is a block diagram showing another embodiment of the present invention. Fig. 1 shows one of the embodiments of the present invention wherein the present invention is applied to the digital video tape recorder. In the case where the signal of the video tape recorder 1 is to be dubbed into the video tape recorder 2 as shown in Fig. 1, said two video tape recorders are connected to each other through the connection line 2 for the dubbing. Before explaining the dubbing system, the compositions and the actions of the video tape recorders shown in Fig. 1 will be explained. In the video tape recorder 1, the analog to digital converters 10, 11 and 12 respectively receive the video signals to be recorded, that is, the luminance signal Y and two chrominance signals C The recorded video signal is reproduced as follows the signals reproduced from the recording medium 22 through the channel decoder 24 are inputted to the error correction decoder 26, and the signals whose code errors are corrected are supplied to the channel combination circuit 28. The channel combination circuit 28 separates the luminance signal and the chrominance signal which have been mixed and distributed among the plural number of the channels. The low speed to high speed converter 30 converts the luminance signal, which has been converted into the low speed signals, into the original high speed signal. The output sides of the low speed to high speed converter 30 and the channel combination circuit 28 are connected to the dubbing signal output terminals 32. The digital to analog converters 34, 35 and 36 respectively convert the luminance signal from the low speed to high speed converter 30 and the chrominance signals from the channel combination circuit 28 into the analog signals respectively, and reproduce the luminance signal Y and the chrominance signals C Figs. 2A, 2B and 2C respectively show the states of the digital signals at different stages shown in Fig. 1. Fig. 2A shows the states of the signals at the input sides 50 of the high speed to low speed converter 17 and of the channel distributor 18 in Fig. 1, and similarly the states of the signals at the output sides 57 of the low speed to high speed converter 30 and of the channel combination circuit 28. Fig. 2B shows the states of the signals at the input side 51 of the channel distributor 18 and the state of the signal at the output side 56 of the channel combination circuit 28. Fig. 2C shows the states of the signals at the output side 52 of the channel distributor 18 and the states of the signals at the input side 55 of the channel combination circuit 28. The high speed to low speed converter 17 converts the inputted luminance signal Y see Fig. 2A into the luminance signals Y The method of the digital dubbing will be explained in the following. In the case where the dubbing is to be made into the video tape recorder 2 from the video tape recorder 1 as the source tape, the switches 37, 38 and 39 of the video tape recorder 2 are respectively connected to the dubbing signal input terminals 40. The dubbing signal input terminals 40 receive the inputs of the digitized luminance signal and chrominance signals through the dubbing signal output terminals 32 of the video tape recorder 1 and the connection lines 2, whereby the dubbing can be accomplished by the procedure similar to that for the recording action of said video tape recorder 1. The dubbing signals can also be taken from the input side 55 of the channel combination circuit 28, but this method requires not only the number of the connection lines for the dubbing but also the number of the change over switches for the dubbing to be increased, and this is not advantageous not only for the reliability but also for the saving of the space and the manufacturing cost. Fig. 3 shows another embodiment of the present invention. This embodiment derives from the application of the present invention to the line sequential system designed for transmitting the chrominance signals C In the system shown in Fig. 3, the analog to digital converters 60, 61 and 62 respectively convert the analog luminance signal Y and the analog chrominance signals C On the reproduction side, the luminance signal outputted from the channel combination circuit 77 is supplied to the digital to analog converter 80 through the low speed to high speed converter 78 and the one horizontal line delay circuit 79. On the other hand, the chrominance signal outputted from the channel combination circuit 77 is supplied to the switch 83 which makes the part of said signal to be supplied to the digital to analog converter 81 through the one horizontal line delay circuits 84 and 85, the adder 86 and the switch 87 in order to reproduce the chrominance signal C The explanation of the line sequential system itself is publicly known, so that its detailed explanation is omitted here. In this embodiment, for the purpose of the dubbing, the dubbing signal output terminals 92 are connected to the output sides of the low speed to high speed converter 78 and the channel combination circuit 77, whereby only two connection lines for dubbing and only two change over switches 71 and 72 will do, and thus the number of the connection lines for dubbing and the number of the change overs switch in this embodiment are smaller than those required in the case shown in Fig. 1, whereby the system of this embodiment is quite effective not only for the maintenance of the required reliability but also for the saving of the space and the cost. In the foregoing explanation of the embodiment of the present invention, the case where the magnetic tape of the video tape recorder is used as the recording medium is discussed, but the recording medium is not necessarily limited to the magnetic tape in the embodiments of the present invention. According to the present invention, the dubbing signal is obtained directly from the digitized luminance signal and the chrominance signal separately, so that the system as the embodiment of the present invention have the advantages such as the simple composition and high reliability.