# LIQUID CRYSTAL DISPLAY DEVICE

## Claims
Flüssigkristall Anzeigeanordnung mit sich gegenüberstehenden Substraten 1, 6 60, 61 80, 81 , einer Schicht 5 62 82 aus Flüssigkristallmaterial zwischen den Substraten, einer Vielzahl von auf der Innenseite des einen Substrats 1 60 80 ausgebildeten Zeilenelektroden 4 63 83, 85 , einer Vielzahl von auf der Innenfläche des anderen Substrates 6 61 81 ausgebildeten Spaltenelektroden 7 66 86 , einer Vielzahl von Bildpunktelektroden 2 65 87 und einer auf wenigstens einem der Substrate 1, 6 60, 61 80, 81 ausgebildeten, eine elektrische Verbindung zwischen jeder Bildpunktelektrode und einer der Zeilen oder Spaltenelektroden bildenden Schicht 3 64 82 mit nichtlinearem Widerstand aus amorphem Siliziummaterial,

## Description
This invention relates generally to liquid crystal display devices, for example, for use as display panels of measuring instruments, instrument panels of motor vehicles, personal computer image displays, television receivers, and so forth. Liquid crystal display devices have many practical applications and are compact, lightweight and consume relatively little power. One type of liquid crystal display device is an active matrix liquid crystal display device which uses thin film transistors having three terminals or MOS transistors formed on a single crystal silicon layer. Another type of active matrix liquid crystal display device uses non linear resistance elements having two terminals and connected in series with each liquid crystal pixel. Both these types of liquid crystal display device have attracted attention in recent years because they enable an increased amount of information to be displayed. In comparison with the active matrix liquid crystal display devices having 3 terminal transistors, those having 2 terminal resistance elements have a smaller number of films to be formed and a smaller number of photoetching steps need to be conducted during manufacture and only need relatively rough patterning accuracy. These liquid crystal display devices are, therefore, of low cost and have a relatively large display area. The following systems are known for active matrix liquid crystal display devices having 2 terminal resistance elements The varistor system 1 and the MIM system 2 are disclosed in published Japanese Patent Application No. 105285 1980 and published Japanese Patent Application No. 161273 1980, respectively. The operating system of such active matrix liquid crystal display devices will be described with reference to the MIM system by way of example. Figure 9 is a longitudinal sectional view of a known liquid crystal display device using the MIM type non linear resistance elements of the MIM system 2 . Figure 9 illustrates only one pixel. Figure 10 is a circuit diagram of a liquid crystal display device having a large number of row and column electrodes using pixels of the type shown in Figure 9. Referring specifically to Figure 9, the liquid crystal display device has upper and lower transparent substrates 90,91, a liquid crystal layer 92, a transparent display electrode 93 on the upper substrate and a metallic tantalum electrode 94 on the lower substrate. The transparent electrode 93 and the tantalum electrode 94 together form row and column electrodes of which there are more than 100 electrode groups. Reference numeral 95 represents a display pixel electrode and reference numeral 96 is an insulating film formed by anodic oxidation of the metallic tantalum electrode 94. The MIM non linear resistance element consists of the electrode 94, the insulating film 96 and the electrode 95. Figure 10 is an equivalent circuit diagram of the liquid crystal display device shown in Figure 9. Reference numeral 100 represents the row electrode groups and reference numeral 101 represents the column electrode groups. Liquid crystal material 102 and a non linear resistance element 103 that are connected in series are formed at the point of intersection of each row electrode and each column electrode. The principle of operation of the liquid crystal display device shown in Figures 9 and 10 is as follows. Using an ordinary simple matrix drive method a large number of row electrodes 100 shown in Figure 10 are selected line by line from the upper line, and data is written using the column electrodes 101 during a selection period. The voltage levels to be applied to the row and column electrodes are determined by a system which is generally referred to as a voltage averaging method . This also holds true of a liquid crystal display device having non linear resistance elements as shown in Figure 10, and a bias ratio from 1 3 to 1 15 is employed. Figure 11a is an equivalent circuit diagram of one pixel of the liquid crystal display device of Figure 9, and a non linear resistance element and a liquid crystal material are shown connected in series with one another. Symbol C In order to operate the liquid crystal display device with sufficient contrast, the effective voltage applied to the liquid crystal material at the time of turn on must be greater than the saturation voltage V Generally, the relation C In the conventional MIM system using an insulating film for the non linear resistance element, the insulating film 96 shown in Figure 9 must be from 10 to 60 nm thick. From this restrictive condition of the capacitance ratio C In a liquid crystal display device of this kind where the insulating film 96 is from 10 to 60 nm thick, the non linear resistance element is likely to be damaged by mechanical loads that are imposed by liquid crystal orientation rubbing treatment. If the materials of the upper and lower substrates constituting the non linear resistance element are different, non linearity of the voltage current characteristics becomes asymmetric with respect to the positive and negative polarity of the impressed voltage due to the difference of the potential barrier between the respective electrodes and the insulating film, so that the liquid crystal display device undergoes rapid degradation if an electro chemical reaction develops at the interface between the liquid crystal material and the electrodes. In order to prevent this problem, electrodes made of the same material must be used, so that the number of photoetching steps increases, at least four photomasks need to be used and, as a result, the production costs of the liquid crystal display devices of this type rises. This also holds true of a liquid crystal display device using diodes as the non linear resistance elements. If varistors using zinc oxide ZnO are used, the ZnO must be at least 25 µm thick and the sintering temperature during their production process must be at least 500 C. In addition, etching of an extremely thick film is necessary, and the driving voltage must be at least 30V. The problems of the prior art liquid crystal display devices described above can be summarised as follows According to the present invention there is provided a liquid crystal display device comprising Preferably said amorphous material is silicon oxide, silicon nitride or silicon oxide nitride. Said amorphous material may include hydrogen, phosphorus, or boron. Said amorphous material may be a film which is from 40 nm to 1000 nm thick. In the case of a planar structure where the amorphous material is formed in a horizontal direction between the conductors such as shown in Figure 8, the film thickness may be 1,000 nm. In one embodiment said first conductor, said second conductor and said amorphous material of each non linear resistance element are disposed in a plane parallel to the plane of the substrate on which they are formed, the distance between said first and second conductors being at least 1 µm. Preferably said second conductor, said amorphous material and said first conductor of each non linear resistance element are sequentially laminated on said substrate. It has been confirmed experimentally that if the current field intensity of a non linear resistance element is expressed by equation 7 , the non linear coefficient α assumes a value of from about 3 to 20 In other words, with a non linear resistance element of the type used in the present invention, the overlap area between the conductor the amorphous material the conductor can be made to be about 100 µm² to 1,000 µm². The electric characteristics of the non linear resistance elements used in the present invention does not depend upon the electrode material, but has extremely excellent symmetry of voltage current characteristics with respect to the polarity of the voltage impressed upon the electrodes. The number of etching steps necessary may be two or three, and the minimum patterning width at the time of photoetching may be made to 10 µm to 40 µm. Therefore, extremely rough patterning becomes possible. The amorphous material of the non linear resistance element is basically electro conductive and is ordinarily at least 100 nm in thickness. Therefore, the non linear resistance elements are rarely destroyed by rubbing at the time of orientation treatment and have sufficient breakdown voltage to resist static electricity. As described above, the present invention needs only extremely simple production steps and results in non linear resistance elements in a rough design rule of at least 10 µm. Since the scale of the picture surface can easily be increased and a high production yield can be obtained, a liquid crystal display device using these non linear resistance elements can be obtained. The invention is illustrated, merely by way of example, in the accompanying drawings, in which Figure 1a is a perspective view of one embodiment of a liquid crystal display device according to the present invention and in particular of a substrate 1 on which a non linear resistance element is formed. Figure 1a illustrates only one pixel, and a liquid crystal layer, an opposed substrate and a polariser are omitted for clarity of illustration. Figure 1b is a longitudinal sectional view of one pixel of the liquid crystal display device of Figure 1a, a polariser being omitted for clarity. The substrate 1 is transparent and ordinary glass may be used. A transparent conductive film 2 which is from about 10 nm to 50 nm thick is formed by magnetron spattering of indium tin oxide. Photoetching is used for patterning the film 2. Amorphous material consisting principally of silicon is used for a film 3. In the case of silicon oxide for the film 3, it is deposited by plasma chemical vapour deposition CVD using a gaseous mixture of silane, carbon dioxide carbonic acid gas , nitrogen suboxide nitrogen monoxide and oxygen. In the case of a silicon nitride film, it is formed by plasma CVD using a gaseous mixture of silane, ammonia and nitrogen. A metal electrode 4 is one of the row and column electrodes. In this embodiment, the metal electrode 4 is formed with a thickness of about 300 nm by sputtering metallic chromium. Instead of chromium, it is possible to use Al, Cu, NiCr, Ag, Au and Ta. The metal electrode 4 is selectively photoetched, and while a photosensitive resin is sill present, the amorphous film 3 consisting principally of silicon is slectively etched. As a result, a non linear resistance element is produced by the two photomask steps and the three etching steps. Referring now to Figure 1b, a layer 5, which is about 7 microns thick, is formed of a twisted nematic liquid crystal material. An upper transparent substrate 6 is made of ordinary glass. A transparent conductive film 7 of indium tin oxide is formed on the substrate and is used either as a row electrode or as a column electrode. Figure 2 shows the current voltage characteristics of the amorphous film 3 which consists principally of silicon and is formed by the method as described above. The diagram shows the case where one of the electrodes is made of metallic chromium and the other of indium tin oxide. As can be seen, the current voltage characteristics have excellent symmetry. Figure 3a is a diagram showing the infra red absorption characteristics of the amorphous silicon film formed by a plasma CVD method using a gaseous mixture of silane and nitrogen suboxide monoxide gas. Reference numeral 30 represents the infra red absorption peak resulting from the Si H bond around wave number 2,100 cm ¹ Reference numeral 31 represents the infra red absorption peak resulting from the Si O bond around wave numbers 1050 cm ¹ and 800 900 cm ¹, respectively. As a result of calculation from the absorption peak of the Si H bond, the hydrogen content of the amorphous silicon film is found to be from 10²¹ to 10²² pcs cm³. Figure 3b is a diagram showing the infra red absorption characteristics of an amorphous material formed by plasma CVD using a gaseous mixture of silane and ammonia or nitrogen. Reference numeral 32 represents the infra red absorption peak around 2100 cm ¹ resulting from the Si H bond, and reference numeral 33 represents a broad absorption peak around 840 cm ¹ resulting from the Si N bond. The hydrogen content of the silicon nitride film is found to be in the range of from 10²¹ to 10²² pcs cm³. Figures 4a and 4b are diagrams of the characteristics of the non linear resistance element with variation in the atomic composition ratio oxygen O silicon Si of a silicon oxide film, which contains a greater quantity of silicon atoms than the stoichiometric ratio and is used in a liquid crystal display device according to the present invention, and showing the change of the non linear resistance characteristics, respectively. Figure 4a shows the resistance field intensity characteristics hereinafter called R E characteristics of the silicon oxide film. Curve 40 in Figure 4a represents dark current R E characteristics of amorphous silicon not containing any oxygen atoms. Curves 41, 42 and 43 in Figure 4a represent the R E characteristics when the ratio O Si is increased. Curves 42, 43 and 44 represent the R E characteristics of silicon oxide when the ratio O Si is 0.17, 0.75 and 2, respectively. The change in the R E characteristics resulting from the change of the film composition can be obtained also by changing the film thickness of the amorphous film 3. From this fact, it is assumed that the properties of the amorphous film are reflected in the R E characteristics, and this is unlike the tunnel effect or Schottky effect. Figure 4b is a diagram showing the properties of a silicon oxide film containing a greater ratio of silicon atoms than the stoichiometric ratio. The abscissa represents the ratio O Si and the ordinate represents the non linear coefficient α expressed by equation 7 , refractive index n and an optical band gap Eg Next, the method of using the non linear resistance material for a liquid crystal display device according to the present invention will be explained. The resistance R In other words, if a value of R Next, when the liquid crystal display device is driven by a 1 10 bias method determined by the afore mentioned voltage averaging method, the maximum voltage V In this embodiment of the present invention, the atomic composition ratio O Si is 0.1 and the non linear resistance element represented by the curve 41 in Figure 4a is used. A liquid crystal display device having 400 row and column electrodes duty ratio 1 400 , is driven by the 1 10 bias method using a driving voltage of 15 to 20 V. At this time, the contrast ratio of the display surface is at least 10 1. Figures 5a and 5b show the characteristics of a non linear resistance film with variation in the atomic composition ratio nitrogen N silicon Si of a silicon nitride film, which is used for a liquid crystal display device according to the present invention and which contains a greater quantity of silicon atoms than the stoichiometric ratio, and showing the change of the non linear resistance characteristics with the properties of the film. Figure 5a is a diagram showing the R E characteristics when the ratio N Si is changed. Curve 50 in Figure 5a represents the R E characteristics of amorphous silicon not containing nitrogen, and curves 51, 52, 53, 54 represent the R E characteristics when the ratio N Si is smaller than 0.3, 0.4, 0.8 and greater than 1.0, respectively. In Figure 5b, the abscissa represents the N Si ratio of the silicon nitride film and the ordinate represents the non linear coefficient α, refractive index n and the optical band gap Eg Next, the electrode width of the non linear resistance element used for the liquid crystal display device will be described. The specific dielectric constant of the amorphous material consisting principally of silicon is from about 5 to about 7. As a condition necessary for applying a sufficient voltage to the non linear resistance element, the capacitance C Figure 6 is a longitudinal sectional view showing a part of another embodiment of a liquid crystal display device according to the present invention. Upper and lower substrates 60,61 consist of glass. The liquid crystal display device has a liquid crystal layer 62, a metal electrode 63, a transparent pixel electrode 65 consisting of indium tin oxide, an amorphous film 64 consisting of silicon as its principal component, and a transparent electrode 66 opposite to the electrode 63. In comparison with the embodiment shown in Figures 1a and 1b, in this embodiment, the electrode construction of the non linear resistance element is reversed, but the operation and the driving condition are the same as those of the previously described embodiment. Figure 7 shows the R E characteristics of an amorphous film which consists of silicon as its principal component, into which phosphorous P is doped and which is used in a liquid crystal display device according to the present invention. The resistance of the P doped silicon oxide film, which is formed by a plasma CVD method using a gaseous mixture of silane and nitrogen suboxide monoxide containing 0.1 to 1 of phosphine drops remarkably in comparison with the resistance of a silicon oxide film. Curves 70,71 in Figure 7 show the R E characteristics of silicon oxide films in which 1 and 0.1 of phosphine is added to the silane gas, and curve 72 represents the R E characteristics of a silicon dioxide film not doped with phosphorous. Figure 8 is a longitudinal sectional view showing a part of a further embodiment of a liquid crystal display device according to the present invention using the P doped amorphous silicon oxide film described above. The liquid crystal display device has a lower transparent substrate 80 and an upper transparent substrate 81, both made of glass. A chromium electrode 83 and a transparent electrode 85 of indium tin oxide together form a two layered or laminated electrode. The electrode portion is continously formed by sputtering, and a pixel portion 87 and the electrodes 83,85 are separated by photoetching. Next, a 1 to 5 micron thick P doped silicon oxide film 84 having a large silicon content is formed on the substrate by plasma CVD. After the silicon oxide film is selectively removed by etching, the chromium film 83 of the pixel electrode is continuously removed. The non linear resistance element consists of the electrodes 83,85, the pixel electrode 87 and the P doped silicon oxide film 84 interposed between them. The non linear resistance element is formed with a width of about 300 µm in the longitudinal direction of the row or column electrode. A liquid crystal display device having 200 row and column electrodes formed in this manner is driven by a 1 10 bias voltage averaging method using a driving voltage of 20 to 50 V. In this case, a uniform display free from any irregularity can be obtained and the contrast ratio is at least 10 1. Phosphorus is doped into the silicon oxide film with silicon as the principal component in the liquid crystal display device of Figures 7 and 8, and the same result can be obtained by doping phosphorous into a silicon nitride film having a greater silicon content than the stoichiometric ratio and consisting of silicon as the principal component. Moreover, the same result can be obtained with a boron doped amorphous film prepared using diborane. In the embodiments described above, the amorphous silicon, the silicon oxide film and the silicon nitride film have been illustrated as examples of amorphous films consisting principally of silicon. A good result can also be obtained with other amorphous films such as a silicon nitride oxide film consisting principally of silicon. In the foregoing embodiments, the amorphous material consisting principally of silicon is produced by a plasma CVD method, but it can be produced in the same way by CVD at normal or reduced pressure, sputtering using hydrogen gas, optical CVD and so forth. As described above, a liquid crystal display device according to the present invention uses non linear resistance elements consisting of amorphous material with silicon as its principal component, e.g. silicon oxide or silicon nitride having a greater silicon content than the stoichiometric ratio. The non linear coefficient α expressed by equation 7 is from 3 to 20, and the overlap area between two electrodes forming part of the non linear element can be made to be from 100 µm² to 1,000 µm². Accordingly, the electrodes can be formed with a minimum pattern width of from 10 µm to 40 µm. A display surface greater than A4 size can be formed easily by extremely rough patterning. The amorphous film is generally at least 100 nm thick, so the non linear resistance element is unlikely to be damaged by liquid crystal orientation rubbing treatment, and at the same time has an extremely high break down voltage to static electricity. The number of production steps for a substrate carrying the non linear resistance elements is extremely small, and the number of masks used for the photoetching step is from 2 to 3. The registration accuracy of the pattern and the mask can be made to be 20 µm. As discussed above, the present invention enables the production of large scale liquid crystal display devices easily and at reduced cost but with a high production yield.