# Disposable absorbent articles

## Claims
Eine wegwerfbare Windel oder ein wegwerfbares Inkontinenzkissen, geeignet zum Absorbieren abgegebener Körperflüssigkeiten bei gleichzeitigem Bestreben, den pH Wert der Haut zu senken, welcher genannte Gegenstand ein flüssigkeitsundurchlässiges Rückenblatt, ein flüssigkeitsdurchlässiges Deckblatt und einen flexiblen absorbierenden Kern, der hydrophiles Fasermaterial enthält, umfaßt, wobei der genannte absorbierende Kern zwischen dem genannten Rückenblatt und dem genannten Deckblatt angeordnet ist, das genannte Deckblatt eine Quelle für saures Material in einer derartigen Menge enthält, daß das genannte Deckblatt, wenn es abgegebenen Körperflüssigkeiten ausgesetzt ist, Protonen in einer Menge freisetzt, die eine Absenkung des Haut pH Wertes auf einen Wert im Bereich von 3,0 bis 5,5 bewirkt,

## Description
The present invention relates to disposable absorbent articles such as diapers and incontinence pads. Such articles are assembled in a manner which renders them especially effective for absorbing discharged body fluids while at the same time lowering and preferably maintaining skin pH within the acid range. Diaper rash is a common form of irritation and inflammation of those parts of an infant s body normally covered by a diaper. It frequently occurs also in areas immediately adjacent to the diapered area. This condition is also referred to as diaper dermatitis, napkin dermatitis, napkin rash, and nappy rash. While certainly more common in infants, this condition is not, in fact, limited to infants. Any individual who suffers from incontinence may develop this condition. This ranges from newborns, to the elderly, to critically ill or nonambulatory individuals. It Is generally accepted that true diaper rash or diaper dermatitis is a condition which is, in its most simple stages, a contact irritant dermatitis. The irritation of simple diaper rash results from extended contact of the skin with urine, or feces, or both. Diapers are worn to catch and hold the body waste, but generally hold the waste in direct contact with the skin until changed, i.e., in occluded fashion for long periods of time. The same is true for an incontinence pad, or incontinence brief. However, while it is known that the body waste causes diaper rash, the precise component or components of the urine or feces which are responsible for the resulting irritation of the skin have not been conclusively identified. The most commonly accepted list of factors linked to diaper rash includes ammonia, bacteria, the products of bacterial action, urine pH, It has now been discovered that a primary cause of diaper rash is a particular set of conditions which arises as a result of prolonged contact of skin with mixtures of feces and urine. Activity of proteolytic and lipolytic fecal enzymes present in such a mixture is believed to be a major factor in producing skin irritation. Urine in contact with enzymes from feces can also result in production of ammonia which raises skin pH. This rise in skin pH, for example to levels of 6.0 and above, in turn increases that fecal proteolytic and lipolytic enzymatic activity which produces diaper rash. Urine itself can also contribute to diaper rash by adding moisture to the diaper environment. Water, and particularly water in the form of urine, is especially effective at diminishing the barrier property of skin, thereby enhancing the susceptibility of skin to fecal enzyme irritation. The foregoing diaper rash model suggests that effective diaper rash control can be achieved by lowering skin pH to values well within the acidic range to inhibit irritation producing enzymatic activity while simultaneously maintaining the diaper environment as dry as possible. Lowering of skin pH may also be an important factor in providing rash or odor control in other types of absorbent articles such as sanitary napkins. Articles, compositions and procedures which inherently tend to lower the pH of diapered skin are known in the art. In fact, a number of prior art references teach the addition of various acidic pH control or ammonia absorbing agents to absorbent articles or to the diapered skin environment. Such references include, for example, Alonso et al., U.S. Patent 4,382,919, Issued May 10, 1983 Blaney, U.S. Patent 3,964,486, Issued June 22, 1976 Bryce, U.S. Patent 3,707,148, Issued December 26, 1972 and Jones, Sr., U.S. Patent 3,794,034, Issued February 26, 1974. In those instances in the prior art wherein acidic pH control agents have been incorporated into the cores of absorbent articles, significant amounts of acid are needed in order to bring about the desired absorption of ammonia or lowering of skin pH. Protons released by acid material in an absorbent structure core must be carried to the skin by the relatively inefficient mechanism of back diffusion or re wetting of the skin with fluid such as urine. In those instances wherein acidic material is carried on or in topsheets of prior art absorbent articles, the character or feel of such topsheets may be made undesirably altered by the presence of coated or impregnated acid. In addition, acidic material from such topsheets may be leached or abraded from the topsheet and delivered to the skin in a form which might cause undesirable comfort or safety problems. In view of the foregoing it can be seen that there is a continuing need to identify improved disposable absorbent articles which are effective for absorbing discharged body waste and which also provide a desirable skin pH control benefit. The improved absorbent articles hereinafter described have such absorbency and skin pH control characteristics. According to the present invention there is provided a disposable diaper or incontinence pad suitable for absorbing discharged body fluids while tending to lower skin pH, said article comprising a liquid impervious backing sheet, a liquid pervious topsheet and a flexible absorbent core containing hydrophilic fiber material, said absorbent core being positioned between said backing sheet and said topsheet, said topsheet incorporating a source of acidic material in an amount such that said topsheet, upon exposure to discharged body fluid, releases protons in a amount which is effective to lower skin pH to within the range from 3.0 to 5.5 wherein said topsheet is constructed at least in part from hydrophobic polymeric non woven fabric or film material selected from carboxymethylated cellulosics, succinylated cellulosics, grafts of polyolefln with polyacrylic acid or its derivatives, grafts of cellulosics with polyacrylic acid or its derivatives and sulfonated polyolefins, said material containing acidic moieties in an amount sufficient to impart an ion exchange capacity of at least 0.25 meq g to said topsheet. The drawing submitted herewith represents a cut away view of a disposable diaper which is a preferred configuration for the absorbent articles herein. The absorbent articles of the present invention can be manufactured in the configuration of wearable disposable products which are capable of absorbing significant quantities of water and body waste fluids such as urine and feces. Such articles are normally in the form of disposable diapers ad adult incontinence pads. The absorbent articles herein generally comprise three basic structural components. One such component is a liquid impervious backing sheet. On top of this backing sheet is placed an absorbent core which may itself comprise one or more distinct and or separate zones or layers. On top of this absorbent core is placed a relatively hydrophobic, liquid pervious topsheet. The topsheet is the element of the article which is placed next to the skin of the wearer. Especially preferred absorbent articles of this invention are disposable diapers. Absorbent articles in the form of disposable diapers are fully described in Duncan and Baker, U.S. Patent Re 26,151, Issued January 31, 1967 Duncan, U.S. Patent 3,592,194, Issued July 13, 1971 Duncan and Gellert, U.S. Patent 3,489,148, Issued January 13, 1970 and Buell, U.S. Patent 3,860,003, Issued January 14, 1975 No matter which configuration is used for the absorbent articles herein, the liquid impervious backing sheet and the absorbent core of the articles of this invention can be conventionally constructed. These elements are described in greater detail hereinafter. The present invention is based upon the use of an ion exchanging topsheet in combination with such a backing sheet and absorbent core. The ion exchanging topsheets herein are those which release protons upon exposure to body fluids such as urine. Ion exchange, i.e., proton release, characteristics can be imparted to fiber or film material used to form such topsheets by chemically modifying the polymer structure of the fiber or film to incorporate thereinto acidic functional moieties. Generally such chemical modification of polymeric fiber or film material will involve treatment of topsheet fiber or film with modifying agents which serve to incorporate carboxylic or inorganic acid functional groups into the polymer structure of the topsheet material. Suitable chemically modified materials which can be used to form the topsheets of the absorbent articles herein include modified cellulosics such as cotton, rayon, ramie and the like and modified polyolefins such as low density polyethylene and polypropylene. Examples of particular materials of these types include carboxymethylated cellulosics succinylated cellulosics grafts of polyolefins such as polypropylene with polyacrylics such as polyacrylic acid, hydrolyzed poly acrylamides , polyacrylates, and poly acrylonitriles grafts of cellulosics with polyacrylics such as polyacrylic acid, hydrolyzed poly acrylamides , polyacrylates and poly acrylonitriles and sulfonated polyolefins. Especially preferred procedures for imparting ion exchange properties to the topsheet material herein include the direct grafting by esterification of polyacrylic acid onto rayon polyester fabric and the succinylation of such rayon polyester fabric material. Direct grafting with polyacrylic acid involves the padding of solutions of polyacrylic acid onto rayon polyester followed by baking to effect the esterification reaction. Suitable polyacrylic acid materials for this procedure are those ranging in molecular weight from 2,000 to 5,000,000. Polyacrylic acid solutions used can range in polyacrylic acid content from 0.1 to 10 by weight. Such solutions are applied to fabric in a weight ratio of polyacrylic acid to fabric of from 0.02 1 to 2.0 1. Baking to effect esterification will generally occur at temperatures of from 100 C to 150 C for a period of from 10 to 60 minutes. Succinylation of rayon polyester blends can be carried out by treating the fabric to impregnate succinamic acid, H₂NOC CH₂CH₂ COOH , followed by heating of the impregnated fabric to drive off ammonia and leave the succinylated fabric structure. Succinamic acid is generally applied to fabric in a mole ratio of succinamic acid to cellulose OH groups within the range of from 0.25 1 to 2 1. Subsequent heating generally occurs at temperatures within the range of from 100 C to 150 C for a period of from 15 to 180 minutes. No matter what procedure is employed to impart ion exhange properties to the topsheet material used in the articles of the present invention, such topsheet material must be modified to the extent that the topsheets themselves have an ion exchange capacity of at least 0.25 meq. gram, preferably at least 0.60 meq. gram, and most preferably at least 1.0 meq. gram. Depending upon the type and concentration of modifying agents used to prepare the ion exchange topsheet material, it may be necessary to carry out the chemical modification of the topsheet polymer material in several distinct treatment stages in order to reach the 0.25 meq. gram or higher desired ion exchange capacity. It has been discovered that topsheets containing this relatively high concentration of acidic functional groups are especially effective for lowering skin pH to values within the requisite range of from 3.0 to 5.5 in the presence of discharged body fluid. Preferably such topsheets serve to lower skin pH to within the range of from 3.5 to 4.5. Also preferably such topsheets will maintain skin pH within the 3.0 to 5.5 range for the length of time the diaper is worn, e.g., for at least 4 hours for daytime diapers and for at least 8 hours for nighttime diapers. The ion exchanging topsheets herein can be prepared by modifying the topsheet fibers or films either before or after such materials have been fashioned into the finished topsheet substrate. In the case of fiber containing topsheets, the topsheets may be constructed entirely of the modified ion exchanging fibers or can be formed from both derivatized and non derivatized fiber material. Even though they are chemically modified to impart ion exchange capacity thereto, the topsheets of the present absorbent articles must desirably remain relatively hydrophobic. For purposes of this invention, the liquid pervious topsheet is relatively hydrophobic if it is less absorbent of discharged body fluid than is the absorbent core placed beneath the topsheet. As indicated, the ion exchanging, liquid pervious topsheets hereinbefore described are used in combination with a liquid impervious backing sheet and a flexible absorbent core to form the absorbent articles of the present invention. The backing sheet of the articles herein can be constructed, for example, from a thin, plastic film of polyethylene, polypropylene, or other flexible moisture impeding material which is substantially water impervious. Polyethylene, having an embossed caliper of approximately 1.5 mils, is especially preferred. The absorbent core is positioned between the backing sheet and the ion exchanging topsheet to form the absorbent articles herein. Such an absorbent core essentially contains hydrophilic fiber material as the primary fluid absorbing medium. The type of hydrophilic fibers used in the absorbent core is not critical for use in the present invention. Any type of hydrophilic fiber which is suitable for use in conventional absorbent products is also suitable for use in the core of the absorbent articles of the present invention. Specific examples of such fibers include cellulose fibers, rayon, polyester fibers. Other examples of suitable hydrophilic fibers are hydrophilized hydrophobic fibers, such as surfactant treated or silica treated thermoplastic fibers. For reasons of availability and cost, cellulose fibers, in particular wood pulp fibers, are preferred. In a preferred embodiment of the present invention, the absorbent core of the articles herein will also contain discrete particles of substantially water insoluble hydrogel material. Such hydrogel materials are inorganic or organic compounds capable of absorbing fluids and retaining them under moderate pressures. Suitable hydrogels can be inorganic materials such as silica gels or organic compounds such as cross linked polymers. Cross linking may be by covalent, ionic, vander Waals, or hydrogen bonding. Examples of hydrogel polymers include polyacrylamides, polyvinyl alcohol, ethylene maleic anhydride copolymers, polyvinyl ethers, hydroxypropyl cellulose, carboxymethyl cellulose, polyvinyl morpholinone, polymers and copolymers of vinyl sulfonic acid, polyacrylates, polyacrylamides, polyvinyl pyridine and the like. Other suitable hydrogels are those disclosed In Assarsson et al., U.S. Patent 3,901,236, Issued August 26, 1975. Particularly preferred hydrogel polymers for use herein are hydrolyzed acrylonitrile grafted starch, acrylic acid grafted starch, polyacrylates, and isobutylene maleic anhydride copolymers, or mixtures thereof. Processes for preparing hydrogels ore disclosed in Masuda et al., U.S. Patent 4,076,663, Issued February 28, 1978 in Tsubakimoto et al., U.S. Patent 4,286,082, Issued August 25, 1981 and further in U.S. Patents 3,734,876, 3,661,815, 3,670,731, 3,664,343, 3,783,871, and Belgian Patent 785,850. Hydrogel material is preferably used in the absorbent cores herein in the form of discrete particles. Hydrogel containing cores will then be in the form of a web or batt of the hydrophilic fibers with the discrete particles of hydrogel dispersed therein. Hydrogel particles can be of any desired shape, e.g., spherical or semi spherical, cubic, rod like, polyhedral, etc. Shapes having a large greatest dimension smallest dimension ratio, like needles, flakes and fibers, are also contemplated for use herein. Conglomerates of hydrogel particles may also be used. Although hydrogel containing absorbent cores used in preferred embodiments of the present invention are expected to perform well with hydrogel particles having a particle size varying over a wide range, other considerations may preclude the use of very small or very large particles. For reasons of industrial hygiene, weight average particle sizes smaller than 30 microns are less desirable. Particles having a smallest dimension larger than 2 mm may also cause a feeling of grittiness in the absorbent structure, which is undesirable from a consumer aesthetics standpoint. Preferred for use herein are particles having an weight average particle size of from 50 microns to 1mm. Particle Size as used herein means the weight average of the smallest dimension of the individual particles. The relative amount of hydrophilic fibers and hydrogel particles used in those absorbent articles herein which contain hydrogel can be most conveniently expressed in a weight ratio of fiber to hydrogel. These ratios may range from 30 70 to about 98 2. For most commercially available hydrogels the optimum fiber hydrogel ratio is in the range of from 50 50 to 95 5. Based on a cost performance analysis, fiber hydrogel ratios of from 75 25 to 90 10 are preferred. This preference is, of course, based on the relative costs of hydrophilic fibers e.g. wood pulp fibers and hydrogel. If, for example, wood pulp prices would go up and or hydrogel prices would come down, lower fiber hydrogel ratios would be more cost effective. The density of the hydrogel containing absorbent core can be of some importance in determining the absorbent properties of the resulting absorbent article. When hydrogel material is used in the absorbent core, the density of the absorbent core is preferably in the range of from 0.10 to 0.6 g cm³, and more preferably within the range of from 0.12 to 0.3 g cm³. Absorbent cores containing hydrogel particles can be formed by airlaying a dry mixture of hydrophilic fibers and hydrogel particles. Such a procedure is described more fully in Procter Gamble European Patent Publication No. EP A 122042 Published October 17, 1984. If hydrogel is employed in the absorbent core, it need not be uniformly distributed throughout the core. In fact, hydrogel can be placed only in one or more layers within the absorbent core, preferably near the bottom of the core. In such a case, the top portion of the absorbent core may consist essentially only of hydrophilic fiber material with substantially no hydrogel present. The use of ion exchanging topsheets for absorbent articles containing hydrogel particles in the absorbent core is especially advantageous. Many of the preferred hydrogel materials are most effective fluid absorbers when pH at the point of absorption is in the neutral to slightly alkaline range. Addition to absorbent articles of materials which lower pH can therefore adversely affect the fluid absorbing capacity of the hydrogel. However, by utilizing an ion exchanging topsheet to bring about desirable lowering of skin pH within the acid range, such acid pH effects tend to be more localized in the topsheet area which is remote from the hydrogel material. The absorbent capacity of the hydrogel material can thereby be preserved. A preferred absorbent article in the form of a disposable diaper is illustrated by the drawing submitted herewith. The hourglass shaped diaper structure of the drawing comprises a liquid impervious backing sheet 101. Positioned on top of the backing sheet 101 is an hourglass shaped absorbent core 102 containing hydrophilic fiber material such as wood pulp fiber. Also distributed throughout the absorbent core 102 are discrete particles 103 of substantially water insoluble, hydrogel material. Positioned on top of the hourglass shaped absorbent core 102 is an ion exchanging topsheet 104. Such a topsheet is constructed from fiber material such as succinylated rayon polyester which provides the topsheet with an ion exchange capacity of at least 0.25meq. gram. Such a topsheet will deliver protons to the skin in the presence of body fluids such as urine so that skin pH is lowered to a value between 3.0 and 5.5. Absorbent articles using ion exchanging topsheets are illustrated by the following examples This example involves the direct esterification of a cellulosic fabric with polyacrylic acid to form absorbent article topsheets. Several solutions of polyacrylic acid molecular weight 4,000,000 are padded on to sheets of 70 30 rayon polyester spunlaced fabric Sontara by DuPont . These treated sheets are cured by baking for one hour in an oven at 110 115 C. The cured fabrics are washed in distilled water to remove free polyacrylic acid and are then air dried. The several treating solutions, the amount of each employed and the resulting ion exchange capacities imparted to the treated sheets are set forth In Table I. Treated fabrics of these types are suitable for use as ion exchanging topsheets provided their ion exchange capacity exceeds 0.25 meq. gram. Thus Sheet Nos. 1 and 2 do not have sufficient ion exchange capacity after one treatment to serve as acceptable ion exchanging topsheets within the context of the present invention. Additional treatments would be needed to increase the ion exchange capacity of such sheets. A polypropylene topsheet taken from a commercially available diaper product LUVS is sulfonated with SO₃. In this procedure, as more fully described in Walles, U.S. Patent 3,629,025, Issued December 21, 1971, the polypropylene material is treated with a refluxing solution of 3 SO₃ in methylenedichloride for one minute. After water washing and drying, the ion exchange capacity of the topsheet is determined to be 0.38 meq g. A cellulosic fabric is carboxymethylated with chloroacetic acid in this example. The fabric employed is the 70 30 rayon polyester Sontara used in Example I. Carboxymethylation is carried out in a series of steps which include 1 reaction with NaOH to form alkali cellulose 2 reaction with chloroacetic acid 3 acidifcation in dilute HCl 4 washing in distilled water and 5 drying. Several samples are prepared using various ratios of cellulosic to chloroacetic acid and various concentrations of the chloroacetic acid solution itself. In all cases, a 4.5 1 isopropyl alcohol water solvent is used for both NaOH and chloroacetic acid. Also in all cases the molar ratio of NaOH to chloroacetic acid is maintained at 1.9 1. Reaction conditions and the ion exchange capacities of the resulting fabric samples are shown in Table II. Sample Nos. 2, 4 and 5 from Table II would be suitable for use as ion exchanging topsheets in the articles herein. In this example the 70 30 rayon polyester Sontara fabric is succinylated using succinamic acid. The Sontara fabric is impregnated with approximately 0.02 mole of succinamic acid in water per gram of fabric. The impregnated fabric is then heated in a forced air oven for two hours at approximately 125 C. The fabric sample is then washed in dilute HCl followed by distilled water and is thereafter dried. Such a procedure provides a fabric suitable for use as a diaper topsheet having an ion exchange capacity of 1.5 meq g. A carboxymethylated Sontara fabric as prepared in Example III is tested for its ability to control skin pH when used as a diaper topsheet in the presence of synthetic urine. In such testing, the carboxymethylated Sontara is substituted for the regular topsheet on patches 6.35cm. X 6.35cm. cut from a commercially available diaper product PAMPERS. Both these modified patches and unmodified patches cut from PAMPERS are soaked with six times their weight of a synthetic aqueous urine solution comprising 1.0 NaCl 0.03 CaCl₂ 2 H₂O 0.06 MgCl₂ 6H₂O and 0.0025 Triton X 100 nonionic surfactant. Such patches are then worn on the forearms of adult subjects for one hour, and skin pH values are then determined using a flat surface electrode. Results of such pH measurements are shown as follows. Succinylated Sontara fabric as prepared in Example IV is tested as a diaper topsheet as follows. The succinylated fabric is used as a replacement topsheet in patches cut from PAMPERS as described in Example V. One such patch is soaked in five times its weight of the synthetic urine solution described in Example V. Another such patch is left dry. These patches are worn on the backs of adult subjects for one hour, and skin pH values are then measured using the flat surface electrode. Results are shown in Table III. A diaper is prepared as described in Buell, U.S. Patent 3,860,003, Issued January 14, 1975. The hourglass shaped softwood pulp core of such a diaper has the following dimensions length 15.5 in. about 40 cm , width at the ears 10.5 in. about 27 cm , and width in the center 3.75 in. about 9.5 cm . The topsheet employed in such a diaper is a succinylated Sontara fabric prepared as described in Example IV. Such a topsheet has an ion exchange capacity of 1.5 meq g. Such a diaper is especially effective in lowering a baby s skin pH to within the range of 3.0 5.5 in the presence of urine discharged during use. A supplemental insert core containing fluid absorbing hydrogel particles is added to the diaper structure of Example VII. Such a supplemental insert core is made with soft wood fibers and acrylic acid grafted starch hydrogel having a weight average particle size of 25 microns Sanwet 1M 1000 , from Sanyo Co., Japan in a fiber hydrogel ratio of 85 15. The supplemental insert core has a basis weight of 0.12 g in. 0.019 g cm² and a caliper of 0.03 in. 0.076 cm , which corresponds to a density of 0.25 g cm³. The supplemental insert core is covered with a sheet of envelope tissue and cut to a size of 3.5 in. x 15.5 in. about 9 x 40 cm . This supplemental insert core is inserted lengthwise into the diaper structure of Example VII in between the hourglass shaped core and the polyethylene backing sheet, the envelope tissue being against the hourglass shaped core. The ion exchanging succinylated topsheet in such a diaper is able to provide effective skin pH control while minimizing the lowering of the pH of fluid in the environment of the hydrogel containing core. Absorbent capacity of the hydrogel in the insert core is thus not significantly diminished by the presence of the succinylated topsheet. Several diaper patches are prepared using various types of absorbent cores and topsheets. These diaper patches are described in Table IV. The 75 neutralized hydrogel in such structures serves to enhance fluid absorption capacity of the diaper. The acidified hydrogel acts as a pH control agent by releasing protons upon contact with urine. Such acidified hydrogels also provide some fluid absorbing capacity. Patches such as described in Table IV are loaded with five times their weight of the synthetic urine solution described in Example V and are then worn on the forearms of adult subjects for two hours. Skin pH readings are then taken for each sample using a flat surface electrode. Results are set forth in Table V. It can be seen from the Table V data that the diaper containing a succinlyated ion exchanging topsheet is able to lower skin pH significantly better than are the diaper patches containing no ion exchanging topsheet and even better than diaper patches containing acidified hydrogel material.