# EARTH BORING BIT WITH IMPROVED RIGID FACE SEAL ASSEMBLY

## Claims
Erdbohrmeißel mit einer verbesserten druckkompensierenden Stirnflächendichtvorrichtung 155 , umfassend

## Description
This invention relates to earth boring bits, lubricated with a system which includes a hydrostatic pressure compensator to balance the internal pressure of the lubricant inside the bit with the hydrostatic pressure of a liquid drilling fluid that surrounds the bit during drilling. In this combination, the specific improvement relates to the seal assembly between each cutter and bearing shaft which confines lubricant within, and excludes contaminates from, the lubrication system. Background information and prior art are provided in the EP A 0 138 737, beneficial in appreciating the present invention. The preamble of claim 1 describes this prior art. The preferred embodiment disclosed in the EP A 0 138 737 utilizes a pair of rigid face seals positioned in a seal groove, including a pair of resilient energizer rings, preferably of the O ring type. The dimensional relationships of the sealing components and the groove result in greater axial movement of the rigid face seals than the associated cutter. As a bit rotates during drilling, its cutters move axially, or with a rocking motion, on the bearing shafts because of the clearances and normal manufacturing tolerances. Some clearances are necessary to assemble the cutters on the shafts. Axial and radial cutter movements which result from the clearance between cutter and shaft cause rapid pressure variations in the lubricant, or more accurately, volume changes in the lubricant in the vicinity of each seal. In the preferred embodiment of the above related patent, the rigid face seals may move axially a distance greater than the axial cutter movement by a ratio of about 1.88 to one. The object of the invention is to improve an earth boring bit according to the preamble of claim 1 such as to decrease the axial movement of the rigid ring of its seal assembly with respect to the axial movement of its cutter to a selected ratio during drilling. This object is achieved in an earth boring bit according to the preamble of claim 1 by the features recited in the characterizing part thereof. Embodiments of the invention are defined in the dependant claims. The improvement decreases the pressure or volume changes in the vicinity of the seal assembly by positioning the seal groove and seal assembly in relation to the bearing surface such that rigid face seal movement is decreased relative to axial cutter movement. In a preferred embodiment the axial movement of the rigid face seal with respect to the shaft is about one half that of the cutter, and is achieved by making the bearing surface intermediate the radial thickness of the seal assembly groove. That is, part of the groove is in the cutter and the other is in the bearing shaft. The relationship of seal movement to cutter movement is established by dimensioning consistent with the following formula, derived for this invention Where The preferred assembly method uses the step of forming about one half the groove in the cutter and the other half in the shaft, assembling one rigid ring and energizer ring in the seal region of the shaft, assembling a sleeve and then the other rigid ring and mating energizer in the cutter, and then assembling the cutter and sleeve on the shaft, the sleeve engaging the shaft with an interference fit. Additional objects, features and advantages of the invention will become apparent in the following description when read with reference to the accompanying drawings, wherein The numeral 11 in Fig. 1 of the drawings designates a lubricated, rotatable cone or cutter type earth boring bit having a body formed in three head sections or legs 13, only one of which is shown. Each leg 13 includes an oblique cantilevered bearing shaft 15 that depends inwardly and downwardly to support a rotatable cutter 17 having earth desintegrating teeth 19. Lubricant passage 21 supplies lubricant to the bearing surfaces between the bearing shaft 15 and cutter 17. A seal assembly 23 retains lubricant in the bearing and prevents borehole fluid from entering the bearing. A hydrostatic pressure compensator is part of a lubrication system 25 connected with the lubricant passage 21 to equalize the pressure of the liquid lubricant inside the bearing with the hydrostatic pressure of the fluid in the borehole. A preferred compensator system is shown in the patent to Stuart C. Millsapps. Jr., U.S. Patent No. 4 276 946. The geometry of the bearings on the shaft 15 and within the cutter 17 are of a prior art configuration, including the use of a ball bearing retainer 27, which with a plug 26 welded at 28 retains the cutter on the bearing shaft, preferably as shown in the U.S. patent of Robert A. Cunningham, No. Re. 28,625. Referring especially to Fig. 3, the cutter and shaft include an annular seal groove or gland that has axially spaced, generally radial end walls 29,31 and inner and outer circumferential walls 33,35. End wall 31 and circumferential wall 33 are formed upon a seal seat insert 36 secured to the bearing shaft 15. The seal assembly includes a pair of annular rigid rings 37,39 with opposed radial faces 41,43. The pair of rigid, preferably metal, rings have a radially measured thickness less than the annular space between the inner and outer side walls 33,35 of the groove and an axially measured width which is less than the width or the distance between the end walls 29,31 of the groove, as will be explained more fully hereafter. Each of a pair of resilient, energizer rings 45 or 47 extends between a seal seat 49 or 51 on one of the metal rings 37 or 39 and an opposed seal seat 53 or 55 on the inner or outer circumferential walls 33,35. Each seal seat has an annular groove and configuration to position and retain the associated energizer ring and the metal ring, which is suspended within the groove intermediate the circumferential walls 33,35 and the end walls 29,31 to provide clearances C₁ and C₂ which exist when the thrust surfaces 32 are in contact. The positions of seats 53 and 55 relative to each other are selected such that, at assembly, the initial deflection of each seal half relative to its adjacent end wall 29 or 31 will provide sufficient contact pressure between radial faces 41 and 43 to maintain sealing contact between all the elements of the seal assembly throughout the full range of seal movements permitted by clearances C₁ and C₂ and the play between cutter and shaft. See Patent No. 3 180 648 for a description of an earlier construction of a conical, Duo Cone seal arrangement of the Caterpillar Tractor Company, and patent Nos. 3 403 916, 3 524 654 and 4 077 634 for improvement to such seals. From Fig. 3 it may be seen that one of the metal rings 37,39 is inverted with respect to the other, a feature which permits the seal assembly to span the groove diagonally and engage opposite circumferential walls 33,35. The clearances C₁ and C₂ are between each of the end walls 29,31 of the groove and the engaged rigid rings 37,39. Drilling fluid fills the space 57 and acts upon the outermost side of the seal assembly 23, and lubricant fills the space 59 and acts upon the innermost side of the assembly. The rigid rings 37 or 39 have a bevelled, substantially conical portion on the lubricant side of the seal assembly to define a space 61 to feed lubricant to the engaged radial faces 41,43, which regenerate inwardly as they wear in service. See U.S. Patent No. 3 180 648 for a description of one configuration of such seal faces. The dimensions provided below relate to the bit used in the first field test of the invention, which was a Hughes 12 1 4 inch, J 22 type bit. With reference especially to Figs. 4 and 5, the radial thickness T of each of the three metal rings 37 was 0.200 inch, the axial width W was about 0.270 inch and the outside diameter was about 3.449 inches. Angle α was about twenty degrees and the radii R₁ and R₂ averaged 0.048 and 0.080 inch respectively, R₁ being tangent with the conical surface 63. The axial dimensions Y and Z averaged respectively 0.050 and 0.149 inch. The depth D of the positioner groove 65 below the lip 67 averaged 0.009 inch to help position and confine the associated energizer ring 45 during assembly. The radial thickness X of the radial sealing face 41 was about 0.050 inch with a surface finish of about one or two RMS and a tapered surface 68 being defined by a spherical radius R₃ of about 80 inches with a surface finish of about two or three RMS. The inverted and opposing metal rings 39 had a radial thickness T of about 0.199 inch, a radial width W of about 0.247 inch and an outside diameter of about 3.450 inches Angle α was about 19 degrees, and the radii R₁ and R₂ were both about 0.075 inch. The axial dimensions Y and Z were about 0.023 and 0.154 inch the depth D of the positioner groove being about 0.016 inch. There was a flat sealing face on the rings 39 that extended across the entire thickness T of the ring, that had a surface finish similar to that of rings 37. Ring 37 was purchased from Caterpillar Tractor Company and is one of their standard hard metal alloy rings. Ring 39 was manufactured by Hughes Tool Company specifically for this invention from an air hardening tool steel. The configuration of the seal seat in the cutter 17 of the bit is shown in Fig. 5. The seal seat was defined by a conical surface 70 having an angle ϑ₁ of about 19 1 2 degrees, a positioner groove or seal seat 53 having a radius R₄ of about 0.060 inch located a distance D₂ of about 0.129 inch from end wall 29, and a depth D₁ of about 0.008 inch. The conical surface 70 intersected the groove 53 at a point 72 which was located radially from the surface 35 a distance of about 0.021 inch. A similar configuration was used for the seal seat on the bearing shaft 15, defined in this instance by the seal seat insert 36 shown in Fig. 6 having an axial thickness T₁ of 0.105 inch. The positioner groove had a depth D₃ of about 0.011 inch, formed by a radium R₅ of about 0.060 inch located a distance D₄ about 0.140 inch from end wall 31.0₂ was a conical angle of about 20 degrees located in a manner similar to the conical surface 70 of Fig. 5. The O rings or energizer rings 45,47 after service had a cross sectional thickness of about 0.168 inch, a hardness of about 59 durometer, Shore A, inside diametersof about 3.057 and 2.760 inches respectively, and a high resilience, measure to be about 43 percent rebound using the above described O rings and a Shore Resiliometer, Model SR 1. The radial end walls 29,31 of the seal groove were located a width of about 0.580 inch apart with bearing thrust surfaces 32 in mutual contact. Using the above components, the assembly loading on the faces of the rigid rings was about 40 to 60 pounds, as determined from load deflection curves. The clearances C₁ and C₂ were respectively about 0.035 and 0.029 inch at assembly with thrust surfaces 32 in contact to define the minimum groove width and the diameters of the circumferential walls 33,35 were respectively about 2.969 and 3.529 inches. For the first bit tested, the axial bearing play of each of the cutters, after testing, was In operation, and during drilling in a well bore filled with liquid, the compensator 25 acts to balance the hydrostatic pressure of the liquid in the well bore with the pressure of the liquid lubricant inside the bearing. However, cutter movements during drilling, caused by the complex forces applied to a cutter, and the clearances which are of necessity used to enable assembly of the part, produce rapid changes in the volume defined by the space 59. The viscosity of the lubricant and flow restrictions between the space 59 and hydrostatic pressure compensator 59 do not allow compensation for the volume changes in space 59 as rapidly as they occur. Nevertheless, seal assembly 23 will move sufficiently to provide the required volume change and thereby minimize the pressure changes experienced by the seal which would otherwise cause rapid depletion of the lubricant supply or entry of borehole fluids into the bearing, with resulting bearing and seal damage. Use of the seal assembly 23 described above in a bit which includes a hydrostatic pressure compensator minimizes the pressure differentials to which the seal assembly is exposed through the cooperative relationship of the hydrostatic pressure compensator and the dynamic pressure compensating abilities of the seal assembly. The seal assembly is one which spans diagonally the seal groove such that one of the resilient energizer rings engages a wall of the cutter, while the other energizer ring engages a wall of the shaft. Thus, the outermost portion of each of the energizer rings is exposed to the fluid in the borehole, while an innermost portion of each of the energizer rings is exposed to the lubricant inside the bearing. Every pressure differential is therefore sensed by the seal assembly, which is moved by each such pressure differential. A seal assembly which cannot be moved by the differential pressure cannot effectively compensate for dynamic changes in the volume of space 59. Preferably the seal half consisting of energizer ring 47 and rigid ring 39 should have the same axial load deflection characteristics as the mating half consisting of energizer ring 45 and rigid ring 37 to balance and minimize the increase in the loading of engaged radial faces 41 and 43 caused by pressure differentials. Another requirement for a satisfactory seal assembly, and the groove in which it is placed, is that the assembly be positioned between the end walls of the groove to permit unrestricted axial movement of the rigid rings between the walls of the groove in response to sensed pressure differentials. If the bearing lubricant could freely enter and leave space 59 as the volume of space 59 is changed by cutter movement, the pressure differentials acting on the seal would be negligible and the movement of the rigid rings would be less than the cutter movement. Furthermore, if the load deflection characteristics of each half were equal, as preferred, the rigid ring movement would be one half the cutter movement in the above described embodiment. However, because lubricant movement is restricted, greater rigid ring movement must be provided for. The required clearances C₁ and C₂ were determined by building a model of the seal, cutter and shaft assembly and measuring the movement of the rigid rings in response to cutter movement with the exit from space 59 blocked for example, by a conventional O ring seal between the bearing surfaces of the simulated cutter and shaft. To be sure that accurate rigid ring movement takes place in the model, it is important to have space 59 completely filled with an incompressible fluid that is free of any air or vapor pockets. Furthermore, in some cases, it may be necessary to pressurize space 57 with air to insure complete rigid ring movement in response to movement of end wall 29 away from end wall 31. A model as hereinabove described was used to measure the movement of the rigid rings in response to cutter movement for the shaft, cutter and seal used in the first test bit. Air pressure in space 57 was not required for this test because the pressure in space 59 did not drop below the vapor pressure of the fluid used to fill the space. The ratio of the rigid ring movement to cutter movement was determined from the measurements to be 1.88 1. This ratio is influenced by the geometry of space 59, the size, shape and elastic properties of the energizer rings and the manner in which the energizer rings are deformed by the rigid rings and wall of the seal groove. Thus, a change in any of these parameters is likely to cause a change in required clearances C₁ and C₂. After the ration of the rigid ring movement to cutter movement has been established, as described above, the minimum values for C₁ and C₂ may be calculated. The maximum seal or rigid ring movement with respect to the bearing shaft is calculated by multiplying the axial play between the cutter and shaft by the ratio of rigid ring movement to cutter movement. When bearing thrust surfaces 32 are in contact, the first axial clearance C₁ between rigid ring 37 and the inner wall 29 of the groove should be greater than the maximum rigid ring movement less the axial play between the cutter and the shaft. The axial clearance C₂ between rigid ring 39 and the outer end wall 31 of the groove measured with the thrust surfaces 32 in contact should be greater than a value equal to the maximum rigid ring movement as calculated above less the displacement which rigid rings 37 and 39 undergo when the space between end walls 29 and 31 is increased by axial play from its minimum length to its maximum length in the absence of any pressure differential across the seal. This displacement of rigid rings 37 and 39 in the absence of a pressure differential can be determined with the model if space 59 is vented or it can be calculated with the aid of the load deflection curves for the seal halves. While the embodiment disclosed above was that of the initial test, the commercial embodiment is expected to be closer to that shown in Fig. 7. The leg 101 includes an oblique cantilevered bearing shaft 103 that depends inwardly and downwardly to support a rotatable cutter 105 having earth disintegrating teeth 107. A lubricant passage 109 supplies lubricant to the bearing surfaces between the bearing shaft 103 and the cutter 105. A snap ring retainer 106, similar to that shown in U.S. Patent No. 4 344 658 is used in place of the ball retainer shown in Fig. 1. A seal assembly 111 retains lubricant and excludes borehole fluids. This seal assembly has the same configuration as assembly 23 of Fig. 3, however, the innermost energizer ring 113 engages directly the journal bearing cylindrical surface 115, rather than a seal seat insert 36. A seal seat configuration is provided similar to the seal seat 55 and inner circumferential wall 33 in the Fig. 3 embodiment. This reduces the diameter of the seal seat of Fig. 7, as compared to the diameter of the seal seat in Fig. 3. This reduction in diameter of the seal seat in relation to the diameter of journal bearing cylindrical surface 115 reduces the ratio of rigid ring movement to cutter movement. This ratio, determined by making a model similar to the one described in connection with the Fig. 3 embodiment, except using the Fig. 7 bearing configuration, is 1.28 1. The materials for the various components of the seal assembly are identical with the materials used in the embodiment of Figs. 1 4 except both rigid rings are preferably constructed of the same hard metal alloy as ring 37. An alternate to the disclosures above is illustrated in Figs. 8 and 9 which disclose the invention. In Fig. 8 the numeral 121 designates one section of a rock bit having a threaded upper end or shank 123, a lubrication system 125 of the type previously described, which feeds lubricant to a passage 127, and to a passage 129 formed in a ball plug 131 secured by weld 133 to the section 121. Additional passage means 134 enables lubricant communication with the bearing shaft 135, which has on its interior and cantilevered end a pilot pin 137 and ball bearing raceway 139. The ball plug 131 retains plural ball bearings 143 in the ball bearing raceway 139 and in a mating raceway 145 in the cutter 147. A bearing sleeve 149 has an interior surface 151 which engages with interference fit a mating portion on the bearing shaft 135. An annular exterior bearing surface 175 engages a mating cylindrical bearing surface 173 in the cutter 147. These bearing elements enable rotation of the cutter 147 such that the earth disintegrating teeth 153 engage and disintegrate geological formations during drilling. To seal lubricant within the cutter 147 for lubrication of the above described bearing surfaces, a seal assembly 155 is provided, which may be better seen with reference to Fig. 9. The seal assembly 155 is disposed partially within a generally L shaped groove in the shaft 135, as best seen in Fig. 9, having a radial end wall 157 and a circumferential wall 159. Another groove is located within the cutter 147, having a radial end wall 161 and circumferential wall 163. Confined within the grooves are a pair of energizer rings 165, 167 and rigid annular rings 169, 171. The geometries of the groove surfaces, the energizer rings and the annular rings shown here are identical with those described in the preceding embodiments. However, the bearing surface 175 is located substantially midway between the circumferential walls 159, 163 and is defined by a bearing sleeve 149 having an annular surface 151 retained by interference fit on shaft 135 against shoulder 177. The improvement of Figs. 8 and 9 decreases the lubricant pressure and volume changes in the vicinity of the seal assembly by positioning the seal groove and seal assembly in relation to the bearing surface 175 such that the ratio of rigid face seal movement to cutter movement is about one half to one. This is achieved by making the bearing surface 175 intermediate the radial thickness of the seal assembly grooves or the distance between circumferential surfaces 159,163. That is, part of the groove is in the cutter and the other is in the bearing shaft. The relationship of seal movement to cutter movement is established by dimensioning consistent with the following formula, derived for this invention Where The ratio of seal movement to cone movement of about one half to one is achieved using the above formula, a circumferential wall 159 diamter of 2.970 inch, and the following annular areas The formula assumes no radial bearing clearance, no lubricant flow to or from the seal assembly, no or offsetting changes in annular areas H, C, A and G, and rolling, nonsliding movement of the energizer rings 165,167. The preferred assembly method uses the steps of forming about one half the groove in the cutter 147 and the other half in the shaft 135, assembling one rigid ring 169 and energizer ring 165 in the seal region of the shaft 135, assembling the sleeve 149 and then the other rigid ring 171 and the mating energizer ring 167 in the cutter 147, and then assembling the cutter 147 and sleeve 149 on the shaft 135 against shoulder 177, the sleeve 149 engaging the shaft 135 with an interference fit. During drilling with the embodiment of the invention shown in Figs. 8 and 9, cutter 147 will move on the shaft 135 in a complex, wobbling fashion. The above formula assumes simpler, axial movements of the cutter but is thought to be sufficiently accurate to be useful in establishing design parameters for groove and seal assembly geometries. The advantages of the invention shown in Figs. 8 and 9 over the known embodiment of Figs. 1 through 7 are 1 Pressure changes in the lubricant adjacent the seal assembly during drilling and consequent cutter movement are greatly reduced, ideally eliminated 2 variations in loading on the faces of the rigid rings 169,171 are minimized 3 rolling motions of the energizer rings 165, 167 are more nearly equalized 4 since any axial movement of the seal assembly is less than axial movement of the cutter, the clearances with end walls 157,161 may be minimized.