# A device for cleaning floors.

## Abstract
A device for sweeping floors or the like, has a stick 1 attached to a frame part 2 which has been equipped with a detachable cleaning cloth 5 for said sweeping. In addition the frame part 2 includes at least two attachment spikes for attaching the cleaning cloth to the cleaning device by punching the cloth to the spikes, and a protector 7 extending over the points of the spikes to protect a user from the spikes and to protect the spikes from accidental damage.

## Claims
1. A device for sweeping floors or the like, which device comprises a stick 1 attached to a frame part 2 which is provided with a detachable cleaning cloth 5 for said sweeping, characterized in that the frame part 2 comprises at least two attachment spikes 6 for attaching the cleaning cloth to the cleaning device by the spikes piercing the cloth.

## Description
The present invention relates to a device for sweeping floors or the like, or the type comprising a stick attached to a frame part which is provided with a detachable cleaning cloth for said sweeping. In known floor cleaners, which comprise a stick and a planar cleaning part connected to the stick in an articulated manner, and in which detachably attached cleaning cloths are employed, the cleaning cloths are preferably attached by a clamp structure to grooves or the like situated on the upper surface of the cleaning part. A drawback of the known devices is their unhygienic, dirt collecting structure, which is complicated, difficult to use and is prone to wear, resulting in easy breakage of components. In addition, a further drawback is that the use of disposable cloths in a bundle is difficult, or almost impossible, because while detaching the topmost cloth the other cloths will also detach from the holders. An object of the present invention is to obviate or mitigate the drawbacks mentioned above. A further object of the present invention is to bring about a floor cleaner by which the simple, hygienic and easy use of disposable cloths becomes possible. In accordance with the present invention, there is provided a device for sweeping floors or the like, which device comprises a stick attached to a frame part which is provided with a detachable cleaning cloth for said sweeping, characterized in that the frame part comprises at least two attachment spikes for attaching the cleaning cloth to the cleaning device by the spikes piercing the cloth. One embodiment of floor cleaner, according to the present invention, comprises an elongated stick and a mainly planar frame part connected advantageously in an articulated manner to the stick. The cleaning cloth to be used is wrapped, partly or wholly, round the frame part and attached to it during the cleaning. The cloths are attached advantageously to vertical sharp pointed attachment spikes situated on opposite sides of the connection point of the stick on the centreline, parallel to the side edges of the frame part. Protectors are included nearby the attachment spikes. The protectors form covers for the spikes so that, for example, the spikes will not hurt the user and will not be damaged by accidental knocks. In one advantageous adaptation of the invention, a pair of spikes is arranged on both sides of the connection point of the stick, at which the protectors for protecting the sharp points of the spikes have been placed between the spikes of said pairs. Thus, the cleaning cloth is first attached to the spikes, situated near one side edge of the frame part, of said pairs and then folded round the frame part and attached from its opposite edge to the other spikes, situated near the other side edge of the frame part. In one adaptation of the invention the spikes are placed mainly horizontally and are equipped with said protectors, at which the frame part might include protrusions or nodules for attaching the spikes, or alternatively the frame part can be made of a planar lower surface and an upper surface, to which the horizontal spikes can be fixed, rising from said lower surface. It is also possible that the structures of the attachment spikes may be situated on the side areas of the frame part. Similarly the spike or the spikes and the protector can be included in a coherent single integral part which is made of, for example, metal or plastics and fixed to the frame part. In one adaptation of the invention the spike itself has been shaped in such a manner that the sharp point has been advantageously bent downwards, such that it does not constitute a danger to the user. In one useful adaptation of the device, according to the present invention, the frame part is formed of a mainly planar part having a shape of a parallelogram. This form is especially advantageous because, although the frame part is covered by the cloth, it will always be evident which corner of the frame part is sharp and can be used for reaching cramped places and corners. For example, the right front corner may always be sharp, despite the working position of the frame part. This type of an advantageous parallelogram shape can be applied to many other cleaners or the like. The advantages of the present invention with respect to the state of the art, is the easy, reliable and quick attachability of the cleaning cloths, as well as the simple structure of the attachment devices which do not include moving or wearing components. As the structure of the attachment mechanism is simple it will not collect dirt and it will be easy to clean, and is thus well suited for usage in very hygienic conditions, for example, for usage in hospitals. Another advantage of the device is that disposable cleaning cloths can be used in a thick bundle at the same time, the topmost cloth being detached as it gets dirty and the other cloths remaining in place. Thick cleaning cloths can be used in a thick bundle at the same time, the topmost cloth being detached as it gets dirty and the other cloths remaining in place. Thick cloths as well as cloths of various sizes can be used in the device. By way of example only, a specific embodiment of the present invention will now be described, with reference to the accompanying drawings, in which The floor cleaner shown in Fig.1 includes a stick 1 and a planar frame part 2 connected in an articulated manner to the stick. The frame part includes mainly straight side edges 3 and end edges 4 substantially shorter than the side edges. Sharp pointed attachment spikes 6 as well as circular shield like protectors 7 near the spikes have been fixed to the top surface 10 of the frame part. The attachment spikes and their protectors are situated on the frame part on the line parallel with the side edge 3 and passing through the connection point 11 of the stick. The attachment mechanism of the device, for the cleaning cloths, shown in Fig.1, is shown in more detail in Fig.2. The mechanism includes attachment spikes 6a, 6b fixed on the top surface 10 as well as a protector 7 fixed on the top surface between the spikes. The protector 7 is formed of a circular shank 8 and a wider plate like spike shield 9 situated on the top of the shank, at a distance spaced apart from the spikes and above them so that a gap 12 remains between the protector and the point of the spike. The device is used in the following manner. A bundle of disposable cleaning cloths 5 is attached to the spikes 6 adjacent to one straight edge of the bundle by pressing the edge of the bundle through the gap 12 so that the spikes are punched through the whole bundle at a distance apart from the edge of the bundle. In this manner the bundle is attached on both sides of the connection point 11, at which stage the device is ready for usage. The cloth bundle can, if desired, be folded round the frame part 2 and attached also adjacent to its opposite edge to the other spikes of the spike pairs. Advantageously, however, the cloth is attached only from its other edge, because the usable cleaning surface will be substantially larger and the cloth remains securely in its attachments without detaching during cleaning. As the cloth becomes dirty it is easy to detach by gripping its upper corner and lifting it from the attachments, at which the cloths below remain in their place and the next cloth is ready for usage. The protectors 7 according to the invention can also be of other shape, as long as they protect the points of the spikes and prevent the user from being hurt by the spikes.