# CURED PRODUCTS FROM THERMOSETTABLE POLYMERS OR PREPOLYMERS PREPARED FROM POLYMETHYLATED PYRAZINES AND AROMATIC POLYALDEHYDES

## Claims
Gehärtetes Produkt, hergestellt durch Aussetzen eines wärmehärtbaren Produktes, erhalten aus der Umsetzung von

## Description
The present invention pertains to cured products prepared from polymers prepared from polymethylated pyrazines and aromatic polyaldehydes. EP A 182,865 WO 85 05366 which is a document pursuant to Art. 54 3 and 4 EPC relates to thermosetting prepolymers prepared from methylated pyridines or pyrazines, aromatic dialdehydes, isopropenyl phenols and with or without bis maleimides. After formation of oligomers, monomeric or dimeric isopropenyl phenols are added to cap oligomers. The present invention provides a cured product prepared by subjecting a thermosettable product resulting from reacting The cured thermoset products have good thermal properties as well as good physical properties. Thermoset products with good thermal as well as good physical properties can also be obtained by homopolymerization in the presence of N,N bis imides or copolymerization of these prepolymers with N,N bis imides. Composites can be prepared by impregnating reinforcing materials such as glass or graphite fibers with the prepolymer. Suitable pyrazines which can be employed herein include any pyrazine which has at least two substituent groups which have at least one hydrogen atom attached to a carbon atom which is attached to the ring. Particularly suitable pyrazines include, di and trialkyl pyrazines such as, for example, 2,5 dimethylpyrazine, 2,6 dimethylpyrazine, 2,3 dimethylpyrazine, 2,6 diamino 3,5 dimethylpyrazine, 3,5 dicyano 2,6 dimethylpyrazine, 2,3,5 trimethylpyrazine, 6 nitro 2,3,5 trimethylpyrazine, 2 chloro 3,5,6 trimethylpyrazine, 2,3,5,6 tetramethylpyrazine, 2,5 diethylpyrazine, 2,5 dipropylpyrazine, 2,6 diethylpyrazine, 2,6 dipropylpyrazine, 2,3 diethylpyrazine, 2,3 dipropylpyrazine, 2,3,5 triethylpyrazine, 2,3,5 tripropylpyrazine, and mixtures thereof. 2 Methylpyrazine can be mixed or blended with pyrazine having two or more methyl groups to control the molecular weight of the prepolymer. Other aromatic nitrogen containing heterocycles such as pyrazole, pyridazine, pyrimidines, purines, pteridines, imidazole, triazines, quinoline or quinoxalines or a mixture of any two or more such compounds having two or more substituents which have at least one hydrogen atom attached to a carbon atom which is attached to the ring can be substituted for the pyrazines having such substituents. Suitable pyrazoles include 3,5 dimethylpyrazole, 1 ethyl 3,5 dimethylpyrazole and 3,4,5 trimethylpyrazole. Suitable pyridazines include 3,5 dimethylpyridazine, 4 chloro 3,5 dimethylpyridazine and 3,4,5 trimethylpyridazine. Suitable pyrimidines include 2,4 dimethylpyrimidine, 4,5 dimethylpyrimidine, 4,6 dimethylpyrimidine, 2,6dimethyl 4 aminopyrimidine and 2,4,6 trimethylpyrimidine. Suitable purines include 2,8 dimethylpurine, 2,8 dimethyl 6 aminopurine, and 2,6,8 trimethylpurine. Suitable pteridines include 6,7 dimethylpteridine, 2,6 dimethylpteridine, 2,4,7 trimethylpteridine, and 2,4,6,7 tetramethylpteridine. Suitable imidazoles include 2,5 dimethylimidazole, 2,4 dimethylimidazole and 2,4,5 trimethylimidazole. Suitable triazines include 3,5 dimethyl 1,2,4 triazine, 3,6 dimethyl 1,2,4 triazine, 2,6 dimethyl 1,3,5 triazine and 2,4,6 trimethyl 1,3,5 triazine. Suitable quinolines include 2,6 dimethylquinoline, 2,7 dimethylquinoline, 2,4 dimethylquinoline, 2,3,6 trimethylquinoline and 2,3,6,7 tetramethylquinoline. Suitable quinoxalines include 2,5 dimethylquinoxaline, 2,3 dimethylquinoxaline, 2,6 dimethylquinoxaline, 2,3,7 trimethylquinoxaline and 2,3,6,8 tetramethylquinoxaline. Pyrazole, pyridazine, pyrimidine, purines, pteridines, imidazoles, triazines, quinolines and quinoxalines having two or more of such substituents can be mixed or blended with each other or pyrazine having two or more of such substituents. Also, a pyridine having two or more of such substituents can be mixed or blended with pyrazine, pyrazole, pyridazine, pyrimidine, purines, pteridines, imidazoles, triazines, quinolines or quinoxalines having two or more of such substituents or their mixtures. Molecular weight control of the polymer can be obtained by the addition of an aromatic nitrogen containing heterocycle having one substituent which has at least one hydrogen atom attached to a carbon atom which is attached to the ring as a chain terminator to an aromatic nitrogen containing heterocycle having two or more substituents which have at least one hydrogen atom attached to a carbon atom which is attached to the ring. For example, pyrazine, pyridine, pyrazole, pyridazine, pyrimidine, purines, pteridines, imidazoles, triazines, quinolines, or quinoxalines or a mixture of any two or more such compounds having at least one such substituent can be blended or mixed with those having more than one such substituent. Suitable aromatic aldehydes which can be employed herein include any aldehydes which contain at least two aldehyde groups and no other substituent groups which would tend to interfere with the reaction of the aldehyde groups and the said substituent groups of the pyrazine material. Particularly suitable aldehyde materials include, for example, those of the formula wherein n 2 or more, and R is an aromatic groups such as, for example, where R₁ is alkylene, oxygen, sulfur, oxyalkylene, polyoxyalkylene, wherein R₂ and R₃ are alkyl, aryl or aralkyl, and substituted groups thereof. Particularly suitable aldehydes include, for example, terephthaldicarboxaldehyde, o phthalicdicarboxaldehyde, isophthalaldehyde, dicinnamylaldehyde, 2,5 pyrazinedicarboxaldehyde, 2,3,4,5 pyrazinetetracarboxaldehyde, 1,5 naphthalenedicarboxaldehyde, 1,2,4,5,7,8 naphthalenehexacarboxaldehyde, 1 bromo 2,5 naphthalenedicarboxaldehyde, 2 hydroxy 1,5 naphthalenedicarboxaldehyde, 2,6 phenanthrenedicarboxaldehyde, 2,7 pyrenedicarboxaldehyde, 4 chloro 2H thiochromene 3,7 dicarboxaldehyde, 2,6 fluorenedicarboxaldehyde, 10 chloro 3,8 anthracenedicarboxaldehyde, 3,7 quinolinedicarboxaldehyde, 4,4 bisbenzene 1 carboxaldehyde, 4,4 oxy bisbenzene 1 carboxaldehyde, 4,4 2,1 ethanediylbisoxy benzene 1 carboxyaldehyde, 4,4 sulfonylbisbenzene 1 carboxaldehyde, 4,4 methylene bisbenzene 1 carboxaldehyde, and mixtures thereof. Monoaldehydes such as benzaldehyde, o tolualdehyde, trans cinnamaldehyde, 3 chlorobenzaldehyde or p anisaldehyde can be mixed or blended with a dialdehyde or mixture of dialdehydes to control the molecular weight of the prepolymer. Pyrazine, pyrazole, pyridazine, pyrimidine, pyridine, purines, pteridines, imidazole, triazines, quinoline, and quinoxalines or mixtures thereof containing both a substituent having at least one hydrogen atom attached to a carbon atom which is attached to the ring and an aldehyde substituent can be reacted with itself. For example, suitable pyrazines containing both a substituent having at least one hydrogen atom attached to a carbon atom which is attached to the ring and an aldehyde substituent include 2 methyl 5 pyrazinecarboxaldehyde, 2 methyl 6 pyrazinecarboxaldehyde, 2 methyl 3,5 pyrazinedicarboxaldehyde, 2,3 dimethyl 5 pyrazinecarboxaldehyde and 2,3 dimethyl 5,6 pyrazinedicarboxaldehyde. The reaction can be conducted in the absence or presence of suitable catalysts such as, for example, acids, Lewis acids, bases or salts. Particularly suitable acids include, for example, sulfuric, hydrochloric or p toluene sulfonic acid. Particularly suitable bases include, for example, hydroxides of alkali or alkaline earth metals or of quaternary ammonium. Particularly suitable Lewis acids include, for example, boron trifluoride. Particularly suitable salts include, for example, zinc chloride or aluminum chloride. The use of such catalysts is not indispensable but it reduces the time required for the reaction. When employed, the amount of the catalyst is typically from 0.1 to 10 mole percent with respect to the aromatic dialdehyde. If desirable, larger or lesser quantities can be employed. The reaction can also be accelerated by certain substances such as, for example, methyl iodide, methyl sulfate, or benzyl chloride capable of forming with the pyrazinic base quaternary ammonium derivatives, such substances being usable in catalytic amounts or higher proportions. Addition of a dehydrating agent such as acetic anhydride can also promote the reaction and its action can be sufficient to render superfluous the incorporation of a catalyst. The reaction is usually conducted in an inert atmosphere such as, for example, nitrogen, helium, neon, zenon, argon, or mixtures thereof. Volatile emission during cure can be limited by subjecting the thermosettable prepolymers or resins of the present invention to sublimation, distillation or solvent extraction to remove reactants, catalyst and solvents. Suitable solvents for extraction include, for example, ketones, alcohols, ethers, hydrocarbons, or chlorinated solvents. Particularly suitable solvents include acetone, methanol, ethanol, or mixtures thereof. The thermosettable prepolymers or resins can be cured as is with the application of heat and pressure, or they can be dissolved in a suitable solvent or mixture of solvents and employed to saturate various reinforcing materials so as to prepare composites therefrom through the application of heat and pressure. Suitable solvents which can be employed for preparing these composites include, for example, ketones, acetates, alcohols, ethers, or hydrocarbons. Particularly suitable solvents include, for example, acetone, methylethylketone, ethyl acetate, methylene chloride, trichloroethylene, tetrahydrofuran, chlorobenzene, ethanol, n propanol, N methyl pyrrolidinone, dimethylformamide, dimethylacetamide, nitrobenzene, or mixtures thereof. Suitable reinforcing materials include any synthetic or natural fiber materials, for example, glass fibers, aramid fibers, carbon or graphite fibers in any form such as, for example, woven, matt, roving or random fibers. The thermosettable prepolymers are used according to various conventional techniques applicable to thermosetting resins. Powdered prepolymers are especially adapted for shaping by pressure molding, but they can also be dissolved in a solvent or be employed in molten form. They can be used in the preparation of laminates or composites, molded articles, films and coatings. The prepolymer is cured to a thermoset condition by heating at a temperature of from 100 to 350 C, preferably by compression molding at a temperature of from 150 C to 350 C and at a pressure of up to 6.89 MPa gage 10,000 psig . Finally there is obtained a non fusible and non soluble polymer. Said polymer has a good thermal stability. The prepolymer can be homopolymerized in the presence of a N,N bis imide or copolymerized with a N,N bis imide of the formula in which X represents a divalent radical containing a carbon carbon double bond and A is a divalent radical having at least 2 carbon atoms. Preferred N,N bis imides which may be employed, are maleic N,N ethylene bis imide, maleic N,N hexamethylene bis imide, maleic N,N metaphenylene bis imide, maleic N,N paraphenylene bis imide, maleic N,N 4,4 diphenylmethane bis imide, maleic N,N 4,4 diphenylether bis imide, maleic N,N 4, 4 diphenylsulfone bis imide, maleic N,N 4,4 dicyclohexylmethane bis imide, maleic N,N metaxylylene bis imide, and maleic N,N 4,4 diphenylcyclohexane bis imide. The following examples are illustrative of the present invention. 2,5 Dimethylpyrazine 100 g, 0.92 mole and terephthaldicarboxaldehyde 104.9 g, 0.78 mole were heated with stirring in a 500 ml reactor in a nitrogen atmosphere. Zinc chloride 2.67 g, 0.0196 mole was added after complete dissolution which was apparent at 128 C. The temperature was maintained between 162 and 186 C. The reaction was stopped after two hours 7200 s . The infrared spectrum of the brown resin showed a band of 970 cm ¹ which indicates the presence of trans unsaturation. Gel permeation chromatography indicated the weight average molecular weight of the N,N dimethylformamide soluble portion of the prepolymer was 6200. The weight average molecular weight is based upon polystyrene standards. The resin was crushed and formed an orange powder. The powder was cured at 200 C for 2 hours 7200 s and 250 C for 21 hours 75,600 s under vacuum. Thermogravimetric analysis of the cured resin showed it lost between 30 and 35 weight percent at 940 C in nitrogen, 5 weight percent at 390 C in air and 60 weight percent at 700 C in air. The cured product showed no apparent glass transition temperature Tg in differential scanning calorimetry DSC analyses up to 400 C. 2,3,5 Trimethylpyrazine 100 g, 0.82 mole and terephthaldicarboxaldehyde 93.5 g, 0.70 mole were heated with stirring in a 500 ml resin kettle in a nitrogen atmosphere. After complete dissolution which was apparent at 110 C, zinc chloride 2.37 g, 0.017 mole was added to the reactor contents. The temperature was maintained between 133 and 188 C for 11 hours and 43 minutes 42,180 s . The infrared spectra of the dark brown solid indicated the presence of trans unsaturation. Gel permeation chromatography indicated the weight average molecular weight of the N,N dimethylformamide soluble portion of the prepolymer was 7200. The resin was crushed forming a red orange powder. The powder was cured at 200 C for 4 hours 14,400 s and 250 c for 27 hours 97,200 s in a vacuum oven. Thermogravimetric analysis of the cured resin showed it lost 5 weight percent at 380 C and 69 weight percent at 700 C in air. Differential scanning calorimetry suggested the cured product had no apparent glass transition temperature up to 400 C. 2,3,5,6 Tetramethylpyrazine 100 g, 0.73 mole and terephthaldicarboxaldehyde 83.7 g, 0.62 mole were heated with stirring in a 500 ml reactor in a nitrogen atmosphere. After complete dissolution at 80 C, zinc chloride 2.13 g, 0.16 mole was added to the reactor contents. The reaction temperature was maintained between 166 and 195 C for 32 minutes 1920 s . The infrared spectra supported the presence of trans unsaturation. Gel permeation chromatography indicated the weight average molecular weight of the N,N dimethylformamide soluble portion of the prepolymer was 5700. The resin was crushed to give a red powder with a mortar and pestle. The red powder was cured at 200 C for 4 hours 14,400 s and 250 C for 27 hours 97,200 s in a vacuum oven. Thermogravimetric analysis of the cured polystyrylpyrazine indicated it lost 5 weight percent at 360 C and 98 weight percent at 700 C in air. Differential scanning calorimetry suggested the cured product had no apparent glass transition temperature up to 400 C. 2,5 Dimethylpyrazine 597 g, 5.5 moles and terephthaldicarboxaldehyde 629 g, 4.7 moles were added to a 2 liter resin kettle equipped with a molecular sieve trap, immersion thermometer, mechanical stirrer nitrogen purge system and Brookfield viscometer. A reflux condenser was attached to the molecular sieve trap. The molecular sieve trap was designed to trap water on molecular sieves but return 2,5 dimethylpyrazine and other organics back to the reactor. The reactor contents were heated with stirring. After complete dissolution, sulfuric acid 11.92 g, 0.122 mole was added to the reactor contents. The temperature was maintained between 163 and 176 C. After 7 hours and 46 minutes 27,960 s the viscosity reached 0.758 Pa s 758 centipoise . The reactor contents were cooled to room temperature resulting in a brown viscous liquid. The brown viscous liquid was stirred in methanol for an hour 3600 s . The methanolic solution of prepolymer was vacuum filtered using a sintered funnel of medium porosity. The prepolymer was washed with methanol, acetone and then dried in a vacuum oven between 80 and 120 C giving a yellow powder. The infrared spectra of the yellow powder showed a band at 970 cm ¹ which indicates the presence of trans unsaturation. The prepolymer exhibited a distinct softening point between 232 and 240 C. The yellow prepolymer was compression molded between 250 and 260 C and 29648 kPa 4300 psi for 2 hours 7200 s with a Carver Laboratory press, employing a silicone mold release agent. Thermogravimetric analysis of the cured polymer in nitrogen showed 5 percent weight loss at 380 C and 31percent weight loss at 950 C. In air, the polymer lost 5 percent weight at 385 C and 62 percent weight at 700 C. Differential scanning calorimetry indicated no glass transition temperature Tg was present up to 400 C. The compressed molded polymer was post cured at 270 C for 24 hours 86,400 s . Thermogravimetric analysis in nitrogen showed 5 percent weight loss at 470 C and 29 percent weight loss at 950 C. In air, the post cured polymer lost 5 percent weight at 460 C and 58 percent weight loss at 700 C. 2,3,5,6 Tetramethylpyrazine 600 g, 4.4 moles and terephthaldicarboxaldehyde 502 g, 3.7 moles were added to a resin kettle of the type described in Example 4. After complete dissolution, sulfuric acid 9.78 g, 0.096 mole was added to the reactor contents. The temperature was maintained between 174 and 182 C. After 1 hour and 22 minutes 4920 s , the viscosity reached 3.670 Pa s 3670 centipoise . A dark red, hard, glassy solid was obtained after the reactor contents were cooled to room temperature. The solid was crushed with a mortar and pestle to give a red powder. The powder was stirred in methanol for an hour 3600 s . The methanolic solution of prepolymer was vacuum filtered using a sintered funnel of medium porosity. The prepolymer was washed with methanol, acetone and then dried in a vacuum oven between 80 and 120 C giving an orange powder. The infrared spectra of the orange powder was consistent with the infrared spectra described in Example 4. The orange prepolymer had a broad softening point ranging from 190 to 219 C. The prepolymer was compression molded between 250 and 290 C and 48264 kPa 7000 psi for 2 hours 7200 s with a Carver Laboratory press as described in Example 4. Thermogravimetric analysis of the cured polymer in nitrogen showed 5 percent weight loss at 460 C and 39 percent weight loss at 950 C. The polymer lost 5 percent weight at 475 C and 76 weight at 700 C in air. Differential scanning calorimetry revealed no apparent glass transition temperature up to 400 C. Dynamic mechanical analyses showed no glass transition temperature up to 400 C, a gamma transition T The red compression molded polymer was post cured at 270 C for 24 hours 86,400 s . Thermogravimetric analysis in nitrogen showed 5 percent weight loss at 495 C and 35 percent weight loss at 950 C. The post cured red polymer lost 5 percent by weight at 500 C and 70.5 percent by weight at 700 C in air. Maleic N,N 4,4 diphenylmethane bis imide or 1,1 methylenedi 4,1 phenylene bismaleimide was oven cured under full vacuum at 180 C and sieved with a U.S.A. Standard Testing Sieve No. 40 425 µm . The resulting N,N bis imide prepolymer softened between 200 and 250 C. 1,1 methylenedi 4,1 phenylene bismaleimide 10 g and the sieved orange prepolymer described in Example 5 were mixed to give an orange powder. This powder was compression molded between 270 and 293 C and 42,749 kPa 6200 psi for 2 hours with a Carver Laboratory press as described in Example 4. The infrared spectrum of the molded polymer was nearly the superposition of the infrared spectra of the cured polymer described in Example 5 and the infrared spectra of cured 1,1 methylenedi 4,1 phenylene bismaleimide. The major difference noted was a decrease in the 690 cm ¹ band with respect to cured 1,1 methylenedi 4,1 phenylene bismaleimide. Dynamic mechanical analyses showed no glass transition temperature up to 400 C, a gamma transition T 2,3,5,6 Tetramethylpyrazine 554 g, 4.1 moles and terephthaldicarboxaldehyde 471 g, 3.5 moles were added to a 2 liter resin kettle equipped with a immersion thermometer, mechanical stirrer, nitrogen purge system and Brookfield viscometer. The reactor contents were heated with stirring. After complete dissolution, sulfuric acid 8.46 g, 0.089 moles was added to the reactor contents. The temperature was maintained between 155 and 179 C. After 1 hour 39 minutes 5940 s the viscosity reached 0.500 Pa s 500 centipoise . The reactor contents was a wet red orange solid at room temperature. The solid 204 g was stirred in methanol 468 g for an hour 3600 s . The methanolic solution of prepolymer was vacuum filtered. The resultant prepolymer was washed twice with a mixture of 50 volume percent methanol and 50 volume percent acetone, washed once with methanol and dried for 1 hour 50 minutes 6600 s at 130 C and 40.4 kPa 18 inches vacuum . The dried orange prepolymer was sieved with a U.S.A. Standard Testing Sieve No. 40. 425 µm . The prepolymer soften between 150 and 223 C. 1,1 Methylenedi 4,1 phenylene bismaleimide was oven cured under full vacuum between 113 150 C for 1 hour 49 minutes 6540 s and sieved as described in Example 6. The resulting N,N bis imide prepolymer melted between 146 150 C. 1,1 methylenedi 4,1 phenylene bismaleimide 12 g and the orange prepolymer described in Example 7 were mixed to give an orange powder. This powder was compression molded between 187 and 192 C and 32062 and 34475 kPa 4650 and 5000 psi for 2 hours 7200 s with a Carver Laboratory press as described in Example 4. Dynamic mechanical analyses showed no glass transition temperature up to 400 C, a gamma transition T The sieved orange prepolymer 100 g described in Example 5 and N methylpyrrolidinone 100 g were mixed in a beaker. This solution was painted onto a 14 x 14 356 x 356 mm woven graphite fiber mat Hercules AP193 dry cloth clamped to a frame. The graphite fiber mat preimpregnate was allowed to dry over night at room temperature. Then it was dried in an oven under full vacuum between 142 and 145 C for 46 minutes 2760 s . Finally the graphite fiber mat preimpregnate was dried in a convection oven between 175 and 182 C for 68 minutes 4080 s . Six 101 x 152 mm 4 x 6 sections were cut from the graphite fiber mat preimpregnate, layed up on top of one another, and then compression molded between 270 and 293 C and 17238 and 19306 kPa 2500 and 2800 psi for 3 hours 10,800 s with a Carver Laboratory press. Dynamic mechanical analyses showed no glass transition temperature up to 400 C, a gamma transition T The sieved orange prepolymer 50 g described in Example 7 and N methylpyrrolidinone 50 g were mixed in a beaker to give an orange paste. The orange paste was warmed and stirred for ten minutes 600 s and then painted onto a 356 x 356 mm 14 x 14 woven graphite fiber mat Hercules AP193 dry cloth clamped to a frame. The graphite fiber mat preimpregnate was allowed to dry over night at room temperature. Then it was dried in an oven under full vacuum at 160 C for 30 minutes 1800 s . Prepolymer scraped off the graphite fiber mat preimpregnate soften between 220 and 236 C. Six 101 x 152 cm 4 x 6 sections were cut from the graphite fiber mat preimpregnate, layed up on top of one another, and then compression molded between 222 and 224 C and 3448 and 6895 kPa 500 and 1000 psi for 1 hour 3600 s and at 250 C and 3448 kPa 500 psi for 2 hours 7200 s . The finished composite had thoroughly fused giving a flexible sample after trimming.