# Method of extractive separation, particularly of aromatic and non aromatic components.

## Abstract
An improved extracting separation method is described. The method comprises splitting the feed 22, 32 and or recycle stream 24, 34 to the extraction zone 10 , to improve extraction zone performance. A further improvement in separation is achieved by adding at least a portion of the recycle stream 24 to the extraction zone 10 above the point 30 where all the feed stream 32 is added to the extraction zone.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A method for the extractive separation of an inlet feed stream comprising first and second components into raffinate and extract streams, comprising a directing the inlet feed stream into an extraction zone b directing a solvent selectively miscible with one of the components into the extraction zone at a spaced apart location from the point of addition of the feed stream c causing the feed stream and solvent stream to pass substantially countercurrently through the extraction zone to produce an extract product stream relatively rich in the first component and a raffinate product stream relatively rich in the second component d returning a separate recycle stream produced by subsequent processing of at least one of the extraction zone product streams to the extraction zone and e adding at least a fraction of the recycle stream containing substantially all of the second component of the extract product stream to the extraction zone at a location between the locations at which the solvent and all the feed stream are added to the extraction zone. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein the first component is an aromatic component and the second component is a non aromatic component. 3. The method of claim 2 wherein the solvent is selectively miscible with the aromatic component. 4. The method of claim 2 or claim 3 wherein the solvent is selected from the group consisting of sulfolane, tetraethylene glycol, phenol, dimethyl sulfoxide, furfural, N methyl pyrrolidone and mixtures thereof. 5. The method of any one of claims 1 to 4 wherein the solvent is added to the extraction zone at a location above the location at which the feed is added to the extraction zone. 6. The method of any one of claims 1 to 5 wherein at least 5 wt. of the recycled stream is added to the extraction zone at a location above the location at which all the feed is added to the extraction zone. 7. The method of any one of claims 1 to 6 wherein the extraction zone comprises a trayed extraction zone, and wherein at least a fraction of the recycle stream is added a minimum of one tray above the location where all the feed stream is added to the extraction zone. 8. The method of any one of claims 1 to 6 wherein the extraction zone comprises a baffled extraction zone. 9. The method of any one of claims 1 to 6 wherein the extraction zone comprises a packed extraction zone. 10. The method of any one of claims 1 to 6 wherein the extraction zone has mechanically agitated internals.

## Description
BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION This invention is directed at an improved extractive separation process. More specifically, the present invention is directed at an improved method for directing feed and or recycle streams into an extraction zone to improve the extraction zone performance. In the separation of a mixture of components, one or more unit operations may be utilized.The particular unit operation normally is selected after a consideration of several variables, including the desired purity of the separated fractions, capital equipment cost, equipment reliability and operating costs. In many separation operations, extractive separation may be the preferred method of separation.Typically, a solvent having the desired affinity for one or more of the feed and or recycle stream components is passed through the extraction zone countercurrently to the feed and or recycle streams to effect the separation. For example, in the separation of aromatics, such as benzene, toluene, and xylene BTX from non aromatics, such as hexane, heptane, and isoheptane, the feed and or recycle stream may be contacted with a solvent such as sulfolane tetrahydrothiophene l,l dioxide , tetraethylene glycol, phenol, dimethylsulfoxide, furfurat, or N methyl pyrrolidone.In the preparation of a lube oil basestock from a hydrocarbon feedstock the hydrocarbon feedstock may be extracted with a solvent such as phenol, N methyl pyrrolidone and furfural. In the conventional process, the solvent typically is introduced substantially at the top of the extraction zone, flows downwardly, and exits at the bottom enriched with the extracted component. The hydrocarbon inlet feedstream typically is introduced at a single location at or near the bottom of the extraction zone, flows upwardly, and exits near the top of the extraction zone with a reduced concentration of the extracted component. The inlet recycle stream, if present, typically is introduced at a single location below the hydrocarbon feed location to achieve a backwashing effect for displacing certain components from the solvent before the solvent exits from the base of the extractor.In the extractive separation of aromatics from non aromatics, recycle stream components may displace from the aromatic rich solvent into the raffinate certain non aromatic components which would be more difficult to remove from the BTX product in downstream purification steps. This recycle stream typically may be a product stream from a downstream purification stage which removes nonaromatics from the aromatic products. In many extractive operations, it may be desired to improve the capacity and or separation achieved in the extraction zone of new or existing extractive separation zones without the need for additional processing equipment and without increasing the size and or operating costs. In other operations, upstream modifications or changes in feeds may have altered the composition or flow rates to the extraction zone from those utilized in the original design of the extraction zone. Accordingly, it is desirable to provide a reliable, flexible process which may even be retrofitted to existing extraction zones to permit increased throughput rates without adversely affecting product quality and without causing a significant increase in operating costs. It is also desirable to provide a process which may improve the feed separation in an extraction zone. The subject invention is directed at the discovery that the efficiency of an extractive separation process may be improved by passing the feedstream and or recycle stream into the extraction zone simultaneously through a plurality of spaced apart nozzles rather than through a single nozzle. It also has been discovered that the capacity and or separation efficiency of an extractive separation in which a recycle stream from a downstream product purification step is recycled to the extraction zone may be improved if at least a portion of the recycle is added to the extraction zone at a location above the location at which all the feed is added to the extraction zone. This improvement in extraction zone efficiency permits an increase in product quality or through put.SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION The present invention provides a method for the extractive separation of an inlet feed stream comprising first and second components into raffinate and extract streams, comprising a directing the inlet feed stream into an extraction zone b directing a solvent selectively miscible with one of the components into the extraction zone at a spaced apart location from the point of addition of the feed stream c causing the feed stream and the solvent stream to pass substantially counter currently through the extraction zone to produce an extract product stream rela tively rich in the first component and a raffinate product stream relatively rich in the second component. d returning a separate recycle stream produced by subsequent processing of at least one of the extraction zone product streams to the extraction zone and e adding at least a fraction of the recycle stream containing substantially all of the second component of the extract product stream to the extraction zone at a location between the locations at which the solvent and all the feed stream are added to the extraction zone. The first component may be an aromatic component and the second component may be a non aromatic component. In one embodiment, the present invention is directed at an extraction separation of the type wherein A. an inlet feed stream having a first component and a second component is directed into an extraction zone B. a solvent selectively miscible with one of the components is directed into the extraction zone at a spaced apart location from the point of addition of the feed stream C. the feed stream and solvent stream pass substantially countercurrently through the extraction zone to produce an extract product stream relatively rich in the first component and a raffinate product stream relatively rich in the second component and D. a separate recycle stream produced by subsequent processing of at least one of the extraction zone product streams is returned to the extraction zone, the improvement comprising the addition of at least a fraction of the recycle stream to the extraction zone at a location above the location at which all the feed is added to the extraction zone. In a preferred embodiment the first component comprises an aromatic selected from the group consisting of benzene, toluene and xylene and mixtures thereof. The second component preferably comprises a non aromatic. The solvent preferably is selectively miscible with the aromatic component and is selected from the group consisting of sulfolane, tetraethylene glycol, phenol, dimethylsulfoxide, furfural, N methyl pyrrolidone and mixtures thereof. Preferably at least 5 wt. of the recycle stream and more preferably at least 25 wt. of the recycle stream is added to the extraction zone at a location above the location at which all the feed is added to the extraction zone. BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWING The Figure is a simplified schematic flow drawing to illustrate various methods of solvent extraction, including the method of invention, described in the text which follows.DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION The subject invention may be of utility in applications where extraction zone efficiency is hampered by extraction zone hydraulics, particularly in those applications where feed and or recycle inlets are overloaded due to high hydrocarbon or solvent flow rates and or deficiencies in the design of the extraction zone internals. This invention may be of particular utility for feeds having a relatively high non aromatics content which are at least partially soluble in the solvent and which are difficult to remove in subsequent purification operations Referring to the Figure, an extractive separation process is shown. In the Figure all equipment, valves, piping and controls not necessary for an understanding of the present invention have been omitted for clarity.The internal construction of extractive separation zone 10 may be of conventional design, having trayed, packed, baffled or mechanically agitated internals. A feedstream such as a hydrocarbon feedstock is shown passing through line 12 and thence through line 22 and nozzle 20, and or through line 32 and nozzle 30 into extraction zone 10. Solvent is shown entering zone 10 through line 14. Raffinate comprising substantially no aromatics exits zone 10 through line 16 for further processing not shown while aromatics rich extract containing some non aromatic impurities exits through line 18. The extract passes into separation zone 40 having reboiler 50. The extract is separated into an overhead fraction and a bottoms fraction. The overhead fraction, comprising most of the non aromatics, is condensed and recycled through line 42.The recycle then passes through line 24 and nozzle 20 and or line 34 and nozzle 30 into extraction zone 10. Bottoms from separation zone 40 exit the base of zone 40 through line 44 for further separation of the solvent from the feed component in additional separation zones not shown before the solvent is returned to zone 10 through line 14. Part of the bottoms from line 44 are recycled through line 46 into reboiler 50 and thence through line 52 back to zone 40 to provide heat for the separation. The subject invention has been used to improve the operation of an extraction zone used for the separation of benzene, toluene and xylene from nonaromatics using sulfolane as the solvent. In the application of this invention described hereinafter, zone 10 comprised a commercial extraction zone having perforated trays. Inlet lines 22 and 32 for feed, and 24 and 34 for recycle, permitted both the feed and or recycle streams to be split before entering the extraction zone, rather than entering zone 10 through only one location. Nozzles 20 and 30 preferably are disposed a minimum of one tray apart. Preferably, at least 5 wt.t of the split stream is passed through each nozzle location. One measure of the efficiency of the extractive aromatics non aromatics separation process is the percent non aromatics in a downstreamBTX product line.Table I shows the net increase in the non aromatics content of the downstream BTX product line over a base amount as a function of net increase in feed rate at constant recycle, where all the feed was added through line 32 and all the recycle was added through line 34 into nozzle 30. Table II illustrates that the net increase in the non aromatics content of the downstream BTX product line is much lower than the values reported in Table I when the feed rate is increased over a base amount and the feed is split, with a fraction of the feed.being added through line 22 and a fraction through line 32, while all the recycle enters through line 34. From a comparison of Tables I and II, it can be seen that splitting the feed permits a greater increase in feed rate for substantially the same increase in the concentration of non aromatics in the downstream BTX product line.In Table I, an increase in the feed rate of about 8.28 from the base rate resulted in an increase of 0.10 wt. in the non aromatics concentration in the downstream BTX product line. By comparison, when the feed was split, the data of Table II illustrate that an increase of about 16.4 from the base rate resulted in only a 0.11 wt. non aromatics content in the downstream BTX product line. TABLE I INCREMENTAL CRANGE IN NON AROMATICS CONTENT OF BTX PRODUCT WHEN ALL FEED ADDED THROUGH ONE FEED LOCATION Increase in Wt. Feed Rate Increase to Non Aromatics in DownstreamExtraction Zone Through BTX Product Line As Line 32 wt. Compared to Base Value 2.7 0 8.2 0.10 TABLE II INCREMENTAL CHANGE IN NON AROMATICS CONTENT OF BTX PRODUCT WHERE FEED ADDED THROUGH TWO INLET LOCATIONSWt. Increase in FeedRate Through Line 22 Increase in Wt. Over Base Rate in which Non Aromatics in DownstreamAll Feed Added Through BTX Product Line as Line 32 Compared to Base Value 0 0 2.7 0 3.7 0.03 6.4 0.04 9.1 0.04 12.8 0.05 15.5 0.08 16.4 0.11 As shown by the data in Table III, from another set of runs a much more dramatic increase in extraction zone performance could be realized by directing at least a fraction of the recycle through line 24 into zone 10. The data indicate that where all the feed was added through line 32 and all the recycle through line 34, increasing the feed rate above the base rate resulted in a significant increase in the downstream non aromatics content in the BTX product line. Increasing the feed rate to extraction zone 10 through line 32 by 12.3 and 21.5 wt. resulted in increases of 0.04 and 0.14 wt. , respectively, in the downstream non aromatics content in the BTX product line. However, other data in this table demonstrated that splitting the recycle stream permitted a significant increase in the feed rate to zone 10 without causing a significantly adverse effect on BTX product line quality.Where recycle stream 42 was split such that approximately 25 wt.t passed through line 24 and nozzle 20, and approximately 75 wt.t passed through line 34 and nozzle 30 while the feed rate was held constant through line 32, the non aromatics content of the BTX Product line declined by 0.05 wt. . With this same split of the recycle stream through lines 24 and 34 and with all the feed added through line 32, it was possible to increase the feed rate by more than 26 we. over the base rate while increasing the nonaromatics content of the BTX product line by only 0.02 wt over the base rate.Thus, it may be seen that splitting the recycle stream and adding at least a fraction of the recycle stream above the location at which all the feedstream is added permitted a very significant increase in product quality and or in through put. In the extractive separation of benzene, toluene and xylene, the component most sensitive to the effectiveness of the extractive separation is xylene. Utilization of the above noted process, in which a fraction of the recycle stream was split, produced about a 6 increase in xylene recovery as compared to a conventional process at comparable feed rates in which the recycle stream was not split.Thus, the addition of a fraction of the recycle above the location at which all the feed is added produced a downstream BTX product line having a reduced nonaromatics content while simultaneously increasing the xylene recovery as compared to a conventional process in which the recycle was not split. While the examples have described a specific extraction system, it is clear that this invention is applicable to other extraction operations. Although the invention has been described with respect to specific compounds and a specific embodiment, it will be understood that this disclosure is intended to cover any variations, uses or adaptations of the invention including such departures from the present disclosure as come within known or customary practice in the art to which this invention pertains and which fall within the scope of the invention. TABLE IIIINCREMENTAL CHANGE NON AROMATICS CONTENT OF BTX PRODUCT WHEN RECYCLE ADDED THROUGH TWO INLET LOCATIONSWt. Increase in Feed Split of Recycle StreamRate to Extraction Zone to Extraction Zone wt. Change in Wt. NonOver Base Rate All Feed Through Through Aromatics in DownstreamAdded Through Line 32 Line 34 Line 24 BTX Product. Line 0 100 0 0 12.3 100 0 0.04 21.5 100 0 0.14 0 75 25 0.05 1.5 75 25 0.06 26.2 75 25 0.02