# A PROCESS FOR THE PRODUCTION OF VIABLE AND STABLE DRY MICROORGANISMS FOR FOOD AND AGRICULTURAL PURPOSES

## Abstract
Disclosed is a method for the microencapsulation of microorganism cultures. The method involves mixing the culture with a bulking agent and water to form a homogeneous wet granulation. The wet granulation is extruded through a die onto the spinning plate of a spheronizing device which results in the formation of discrete spherical particles. These particles can then be coated with a material which provides the microorganism with specific protection while allowing it to carry out its specific function.

## Claims
1. A method for the production of spherical particles of viable microorganisms which comprises the steps of

## Description
Olson, et al disclose in U.S. Patent 4,310,554 a process for accelerating the aging process of cheese by the use of a microencapsulated enzyme or enzyme producing microorganism. The biocatalyst is microencapsulated by means of multiple phase emulsion techniques. In U.S. Patent 4,242,219, Bogerman, et al disclose a process for preparing enzyme containing particles which involves homogeneously mixing an enzyme in dry from with a hydrophilic organic cohesive material compatible with the enzyme and a building agent which is water soluble carbohydrate of 5 to 12 carbon atoms together with a moisture regulating agent dividing the resulting mixture into particles and coating the particles with a water repellent agent such as paraffin oil. In U.S. Patent 3,775,331 there is disclosed a process for the preparation of enzyme spheres. The process involves mixing a normally solid synethetic enzyme with a normally solid synthetic organic surface active agent at a temperature at which the enzyme is stable, mechanically working the mixture through small openings in a die to produce filaments and mechanically spheronizing these filaments by placing them on the revolving friction plate of a spheronizing device of the type presently under consideration. There is disclosed in U.S. Patent 3,730,841 to Salvatore, et al a method of treating bound enzymes by encapsulating the enzyme in a coating through which the substrate and its conversion product is permeable such as an alginate or cellulose. Kondo, et al, in U.S. Patent 3,746,621, disclose a method for making enzyme containing microcapsules which involves forming a dispersion of an enzyme, a binder such as gelating, casein, dextrin, gum arabic or cellulose derivatives, a solvent for the binder and a swellable solid which is insoluble in the binder and spray drying the dispersion at a temperature below that at which the enzyme undergoes denaturation. In U.S. Patent 4,251,632, Chen, et al describe cell aggregates of enzyme producing bacterial cells which have been treated with the cross linking reaction product of glutaraldehyde, cyanuric halide and a water soluble cationic polyamine and increasing the strength of the aggregate by adding thereto fines generated during the earlier production of a similar such aggregate. Co pending application EP A 83 102 649.7 filed by Jao, et al on March 17, 1983, claims a method for the production of spherically shaped bacterial cell aggregates which involves introducing a long chain, polyamine, cationic flocculating agent which is an epihalohydrin polyamine copolymer and a cross linking agent for the flocculating agent to an aqueous medium containing the bacterial cells to flocculate them and form a cell cross linked polyamine aggregate which is spheronized by extruding it through a die onto the revolving plate of a spheronizing device. This method is especially suitable for immobilizing cells containing glucose isomerase. Thus, the method involves the formation of spheres of immobilized intracellular enzyme rather than viable cells of the microorganism. The present invention is a method for the production of stable, spherical particles of viable microorganisms which comprises the steps of Optionally there is included the additional step of coating the spherical particles with a material which provides the microorganism with specific protection while allowing it to carry out its desired function. Culture concentrates of harmless lactic acid producing bacteria suitable for use in the present invention include, for example, In practicing this invention, the culture concentrate is mixed with a bulking agent which serves the purpose of acting as a carrier to provide texture to the formulation so that it can be extruded and spheronized in later steps of the process. Typically, the bulking agent is used in a ratio of 1 to 3 parts of bulking agent to 3 parts of the viable microorganism on a weight basis. Suitable bulking agents include food grade cellulose polysaccharides such as maltrin, lactose and starch nonfat milk solids caseinate salts, and rice hulls. The culture concentrate is mixed with the bulking agent and sufficient water to form a homogeneous wet granulation having a water content of about 35 to 65 and preferably 38 to 45 on a weight basis . Optionally, a lubricant can be blended into the formulation to reduce friction at the die during extrtusion. Suitable lubricants include mineral oil, polyols such as glycerol, polyethylene glycol , polysorbates such as polyoxyethylene sorbitan monolaurate, polyoxyethylene sorbitan monostearate, polyoxyethylene sorbitan monooleate , carbohydrates such as lactose, fructose and edible vegetable oils such as corn, coconut, olive, peanut, soybean . Typically, the lubricant is added in an amount of up to about 5 weight of the formulation when used. After thorough mixing to form a homogeneous wet granulation, the material is extruded through a die having a reduced cross sectional area onto the rotating plate of a spheronizing device which comprises a milled friction plate as rotor situated in a cylinder such that the cylinder provides a stationary sidewall for the plate while allowing it to rotate freely. The extruded granulation, upon being fed from the extruder onto the spinning milled plate, is disposed against the cylinder wall into an annular or doughnut like shape with a gradient cross section. The resultant filaments are initially broken down into short pieces, ideally equal to their diameter, by the friction force of the milled plate and also by the intergranular collision and friction of the moving filaments. The characteristic disposition of the filaments results from the centrifugal force of the spinning of the plate and the tangential force of the friction between the filament and the milled plate surface. A smooth spinning surface does not allow the extrudate to roll but just to slide to the periphery of the plate. The type of spheronizing device contemplated for use in the process of this invention can quickly convert the extruded granulation into small, compact, easily handled spheres. The filaments initially break down into pellets. The accelerating and the decelerating pellets within the mass form a pattern of velocity gradients which result in woven rope like formations. The extrudate is broken down into pellets which are shaped into spheres with a diameter ideally equal to the diameter of the orifice through which the wet granulation was extruded. The spheronizing machine used in the following examples is marketed by Fujio Padal Co., Ltd., Osaka, Japan under the tradename Marumerizer Q 230. This device has a rotor which is 23 centimeters in diameter. Typically, the plate will be rotated at a speed of 100 to 700 revolutions per minute and preferably at a speed of 350 to 500 RPM to provide a tangential velocity of 4.1 to 5.9 meters per second when using a spheronizing device with a disk having a diameter of 9 inches. tangential speed RPM 60 X Π X diameter of plate . If the speed of rotation is too great, the plate will simply spin the filaments toward its periphery so rapidly and strongly that they will become compressed against the cylinder wall and create undesirable particles, whereas rotating the plate too slowly will not achieve the desired spheronization since there is not provided sufficient momentum within the spinning filaments for collision and friction as a down sizing and spheronizing force. After spheronization, the cell aggregate particles are dried to a moisture level of from about 5 to 10 , preferably 6 to 9 , on a weight basis typically in a fluidized bed dryer. The dyring step is preferably carried out at a temperature below that of the microorganism s optimum growth temperature because temperatures at or above the optimum growth temperature will result in a loss of viability. These spherical particles contain viable cells which will retain their viability over long periods of time. They can be used, for example, in the production of cheeses, yogurts, meat preservation, ensilage additives, animal and food supplements and food fermentation for preservation purposes. We have found that the viability of the cells can be enhanced by applying a coating material. The dried spherical particles are coated with a material which provides the microorganism culture with specific protection while allowing it to carry out its desired function. For example, coatings can be selected which will improve retention of the culture s viability at elevated temperatures or protect the culture s viability against moisture, oxygen or low high pH environemts. The selection of the coating material will depend on the intended final use of the spheronized culture. Thus, cultures to be used as a probiotic can be coated with enteric coating materials which can protect them from gastric acids and bile salts. Suitable enteric coating materials include formalin treated gelatin, shellac, zein, cellulose acetate phthalate CAP , polyvinyl acetate phthalate PVAP , hydroxypropyl methylcellulose HPMC , starch and amylose acetate phthalate and styrene maleic acid copolymers. Agents appropriate for use in protecting the cultures against elevated temperatures include carboxymethylcellulose, polyethylene glycol, carbohydrates, e.g. lactose, dextrin, maltrin, sucrose, xylose, and alginate salts. Coating of the spheres is typically accomplished by use of a fluidized bed dryer or rotating pan spray coater. The spheres obtained may be dried in pans or a fluidized bed dryer. The Wurster process also may be used. Temperatures below or near the culture s optimum growth temperature are used to obtain the desired moisture level. After drying, the spheres are mechanically down sized by screening using proper sieves with different mesh sizes to obtain a uniform material. The down sized material may be coated by conventional methods such as spray coating in pans or a fluidized bed dryer using a Wurster apparatus. The preferred method for coating the spheres is a Wurster process which is a one step encapsulation method particularly well suited for single step coating while applying a uniform coating to each particle. The solid spheres are suspended on an air stream which is designed to induce a smooth cyclic flow of particles past the device s air inlet nozzle which atomizes the coating as it is introduced into the fluidized bed dryer. The coated particles are lifted in the air stream which dries the particles as it lifts them away from the spraying nozzle. At the top of the air spout, the particles settle out of the air stream and begin another cycle past the nozzle. The cycle continues until the desired coating thickness has been achieved. The coating material is applied from its aqueous solution or suspension, depending on its chemical nature and solution characteristics. The method of practicing the invention is further illustrated by the following examples in which all percentages are by weight unless otherwise specified. Fifty parts by weight of spray dried, viable The spheres were dried to a moisture of 9 w w in a Uni Glatt fluidized bed dryer from Glatt Air Techniques, Inc. The dried spheres were mechanically sized by screening using appropriate sieves to obtain uniform sized particles. Five hundred grams of the uniform size spheres 0,84 mm 10 20 mesh were coated with 0.28 w v sodium alginate in aqueous solution by spray coating in a Glatt Uni Glatt fluidized bed dryer using a Wurster insert to yield a final 0.04 w w coating of sodium alginate. The coated and uncoated products were stored at 4 C, 22 C, 32 C and 37 C and then sampled at time periods to generate stability data. For testing purposes, each sample of 0.1 gram was transferred into 9.9 ml sterile distilled peptone 0.1 water in tubes at room temperature. The dissolved samples were vortexed at high speed to break up particles and several dilutions were made in sterile 0.1 peptone water. Dilutions were plated to bracket 1 10¹⁰ colony forming units per gram of sample and 0.1 ml portions of the dilutions were plated onto APT All Purpose Tween medium from Difco agar plates in duplicate. The plates were incubated anaerobically for 48 hours at 37 C and the colony forming units per gram CFU gm determined by the use of a Quebec automatic colony counter and means reported as set out in Table 1. From Table 1 it can be determined that at 4 C both coated and uncoated particles show similar stability. However, at 22 C the coating stabilizes the viable cell count 70 fold over the uncoated spheres after 25 days. At 32 C and 37 C the sodium alginate did not protect the culture. A preparation containing viable cells of One part by weight of glycerol was mixed with 20 parts by weight of the liquid concentrate. Twelve parts by weight of Solka floc BW300 was then added to the liquid concentrate glycerol mixture to provide a homogeneous wet granulation. Spherical particles were obtained by the method described in Example I except that a 0.7 mm screen was used on the extruder. Five hundred grams of the dried spheres 20 50 mesh size 2.0 mm, 0.30 mm were coated with 0.2 w w carboxy methyl cellulose to yield a final coating of 0.04 w w. The coated and uncoated spheres were stored at 4 C, 22 C, 32 C and 37 C to determine stability with the stability results being determined by the method of example I. The data presented in Table 2 show that at 4 C both coated and uncoated spheres show similar results. AT 22 C, 32 C and 37 C the carboxymethyl cellulose coating protects the culture to a greater extent. Twenty parts by weight of viable The following composition was used to produce dry spherical particles of The data of Table 4 demonstrate that the bacterial cells in the uncoated particles retain full viability for 76 days at 4 C and partial viability at 22 C for 76 days. With much attention focussed on the relation of gut microecology to animal and human health, species of lactic acid producing bacteria have been reported to influence the composition or types of microorganisms in the gut. For many of these microorganisms, the stomach is a hostile environment where a number of factors or compounds discourage their survival. These factors include pH, fatty acids as well as other organic and inorganic acids. The cultures of this invention in the form of spheres can be protected against the gastric environment by coating with a pH sensitive film or enteric coating. Enteric coatings are those which remain undissolved in the stomach but will readily dissolve and release the culture on encountering the small intestine. Their main function is to protect the cultures from inactivation in the stomach. The pH sensitive film or enteric coating must be water dispersible and nontoxic to the microorganism. In practicing the above embodiment of this invention, 30 grams of polyvinyl acetate phthalate PVAP was added slowly to 200 milliliters of distilled water at room temperature 20 24 C with constant mixing over 30 minutes. High shear mixing was needed to ensure proper dispersion. After 30 minutes, 1.2 milliliters of a 30 United States Pharmacoepia grade purity solution of ammonium hydroxide was added with stirring. The resulting suspension was passed through a 40 mesh 0.42 mm screen before spraying. Uncoated product 500 grams for Example I was coated with the 200 milliliters of PVAP solution in the Glatt fluidized bed dryer and dried for 15 minutes at an inlet temperature of 30 C and an outlet temperature of 24 C. The coated and uncoated From Table 5 it can be determined that the PVAP coated particles retained full viability for 6 hours in this