# X RAY SOURCE EMPLOYING COLD CATHODE GAS DISCHARGE TUBE WITH COLLIMATED BEAM

## Abstract
An X ray tube has a wide area cold cathode 25 with a graphite felt surface 21 which faces and is spaced from a wide area anode 50 of high atomic number material. A grid 60 is interposed between the two and the anode, grid and cathode are enclosed in an envelope 25 which is filled with gas at a low pressure. The graphite surface 21 of the cathode 25 is connected to a relatively high negative potential so that electrons are emitted from the entire surface area and impinge upon the anode 50 , after triggering by the grid 60 . The distribution of the energy of photons emitted from the anode is relatively constant during the ignition period of the tube. An extremely wide area X ray source is then defined having constant bremstrahlung content which enables good gray scale measurements when employing the X ray source. A pinhole collimator 51 disposed externally of the tube ensures collimation of the output X ray field. A polarized electron beam 120,121 is used as a collimator in place of the pinhole collimator, in a preferred embodiment, to produce a collimated, wide area X ray flux. The cathode, grid and anode structure can have any desired size or shape. The X ray source can be flat and sized to illuminate a chest X ray film or can be arcuate to at least partly wrap around the subject to be exposed to the X rays. Arcuate X ray sources can be linked end to end and scanned sequentially to define an X ray source for use in Computer Axial Tomography CAT scan type applications. The same computer alogrithm used for conventional CAT scan analysis can be used.