# Liquid optical siloxane polymer.

## Abstract
A liquid optical siloxane polymer having a group for mod ifying a refractive index of the polymer which is introduced in a side chain of the polymer by a hydrosilyl reaction of one of following systems A a compound having a carbon carbon unsaturated bond and a group for modifying a refractive index, and a siloxane polymer having a silicon hydride group, and B a compound having a silicon hydride group and a group for modifying a refractive index, and a siloxane polym er having a carbon carbon unsaturated bond, the refractive index of which polymer is easily and precisely modified.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A liquid optical siloxane polymer having a group for modifying a refractive index of the polymer which is introduced in a side chain of the polymer by a hydrosilyl reaction of one of following systems A a compound having a carbon carbon unsaturated bond and a group for modifying a refractive index, and a siloxane polymer having a silicon hydride group, and B a compound having a silicon hydride group and a group for modifying a refractive index, and a siloxane polymer having a carbon carbon unsaturated bond. 2. The liquid optical siloxane polymer according to claim 1, wherein the the compound B having the group for modifying the refractive index and the silicon hydride group is a hydrosilyl reaction product of the system A having the unreacted silicon hydride groups. 3. The liquid optical siloxane polymer according to claim 1, wherein the group for modifying the refractive index is an aromatic hydrocarbon group. 11. The liquid optical siloxane polymer according to claim 3, wherein the aromatic hydrocarbon group is one selected from the group consisting of a phenyl group, a naphthyl group, an anthryl group and a pyrenyl group. 5. The liquid optical siloxane polymer according to claim 1, wherein the group for modifying the refractive index is a halogenated hydrocarbon group. 6. The liquid optical siloxane polymer according to claim 5, wherein the halogenated hydrocarbon group is a fluorocarbon group.

## Description
LIQUID OPTICAL SILOXANE POLYMERFIELD OF THE INVENTION The present invention relates to a liquid optical siloxane polymer which is easily processed and has a controlled refractive index. More particularly, it relates to a liquid siloxane polymer a refractive index of which is easily and precisely modified by introducing a group for changing the refractive index as a side chain of the siloxane polymer.BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION Hitherto, glass is widely and largely used as an optical material since it has a variety of the refractive indexes and dispersion value. However, glass has several drawbacks. For example, the refractive index of glass is large and any glass with a low refractive index and large dispersion has not been produced. Since glass has poor processability, the production of an unsymmetric lens costs much. Glass has large specific gravity. In addition, glass is hard and fragile. As an economical optical material with good processability, there are known plastics such as polymethyl methacrylate and polystyrene. However, the number of practically useful plastic optical materials is not large.Further, the plastic optical material has poor heat resistance and or flexibility. It is not easy to produce an article of a complicated shape from the plastic optical material. A liquid optical siloxane polymer is an attractive optical material, since it has not only good processability but also good transparency and heat resistance, and rubbery elasticity after cross linked. One known method for modifying the refractive index of the liquid optical siloxane polymer comprises homoor co polymerizing a cyclic siloxane monomer having a phenyl group to produce methylphenylsiloxane polymer, dimethylsiloxane methylphenylsiloxane copolymer and the like. In this method, the refractive index of the resulting polymer is modified by changing the content of the phenyl groups.That is, the polymerization is carried out by changing the amount of the cyclic siloxane monomer having the phenyl group. However, this conventional method has several drawbacks such that 1. Since the refractive index is modified by the content of the phenyl group, the refractive index can not be changed beyond a certain range. 2. Since preparation and purification of the siloxane monomer having the phenyl group is rather difficult, it is very expensive to produce a monomer which is pure enough to be used as an optical material. 3. Trial and error polymerization is required to precisely control the refractive index of the siloxane polymer by the use of the siloxane monomer having the phenyl group. 4. In order to provide several kinds of siloxane polymers having different refractive indexes, it is necessary to produce polymers with varying the kind and or the amount or the comonomer to be copolymerized. This is troublesome in view of quality control and investory control.SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION One object of the present invention is to provide a liquid optical siloxane polymer having a wide variety of refractive indexes. Another object of the present invention is to provide a liquid optical siloxane polymer a refractive index of which is easily and precisely modified. These and other objects are accomplished by a liquid optical siloxane polymer having a group for modifying a refractive index of the polymer which is introduced in a side chain of the polymer by a hydrosilyl reaction of one of following systems A a compound having a carbon carbon unsaturated bond and a group for modifying a refractive index, and a siloxane polymer having a silicon hydride group, and B a compound having a silicon hydride group and a group for modifying a refractive index, and a siloxane polymer having a carbon carbon unsaturated bond.BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS Fig. 1 shows the NMR spectrum of the siloxane polymer No. 1 obtained in Example 1, Fig. 2 shows the NMR spectrum of the siloxane polymer No. 1 obtained in Example 2, Fig. 3 shows the NMR spectrum of the siloxane polymer No. 3 obtained in Example 3, Fig. 4 shows the NMR spectrum of the siloxane polymer No. 3 obtained in Example 4, Fig. 5 is a graph showing the relationship between the refractive index and the glass transition temperature, and Fig. 6 is a graph showing the relationship between the refractive index and Abbe s number.DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION According to the present invention, the compound having the group for modifying the refractive index is reacted with the siloxane polymer so as to introduce a required amount of the group for modifying the refractive index in the side chain of the polymer by the hydrosilyl reaction. When the siloxane polymer has an excessive number of the sites which react with the compound having the group for modifying the refractive index, the polymer having various refractive indexes can be produced from one kind of the siloxane polymer by changing the amount of the compound having the group for modifying the refractive index to be reacted with the unmodified siloxane polymer. The hydrosilyl reaction is a reaction of the silicon hydride group and the carbon carbon unsaturated group represented by the following reaction scheme SiH C C II The carbon carbon unsaturated group includes a vinyl group, an allyl group, an isopropenyl group and the like. Among them, the vinyl group is preferred. According to the present invention, the group for modifying the refractive index is introduced by the hydrosilyl reaction of one of two systems. In the first system A , the compound having the group for modifying the refractive index has also the carbon carbon unsaturated group, while the siloxane polymer has the silicon hydride group. In this system, the siloxane polymer may have the following chemical formula EMI5.1 wherein R1 is a hydrogen atom or a C1 C12 alkyl or alkoxy group R2 and R3 are, the same or different, each a C1 Cl2 alkyl or alkoxy group and x and y are each a positive integer. Preferably, the alkyl or alkoxy group is a C1 C3 alkyl or alkoxy group. Specific examples of them are methyl, ethyl, methoxy and ethoxy. Among them, methyl is preferred. The siloxane polymer has such a molecular weight that it is in a liquid state at a room temperature, for example, 1,000 to 1,000,000, preferably 5,000 to 300,000. The compound having the group for modifying the refractive index and the carbon carbon unsaturated group may be represented by the following chemical formula EMI6.1 As described in the above, examples of the unsaturated bond are the vinyl group, the allyl group and the isopropenyl group. R, R5, R6 and R7 are the same or different and each a C1 C3 alkyl or alkoxy group, a C3 C8 cycloalkyl group, an aromatic group, and the like. These groups may be fluorinated. At least one of them should be the group for modifying the refractive index. Specific examples of the compound II are styrene, a methylstyrene, 2 vinylnaphthalene, 9 vinylanthracene, perfluorooctylethylene and the like. The group for modifying the refractive index of the siloxane polymer may be an aromatic group or a haloge nated hydrocarbon group including a perfluorocarbon group.For increasing the refractive index, the aromatic groups such as phenyl, naphthyl, anthryl, pyrenyl and the like are preferred. For decreasing the refractive index of the siloxane polymer, the halogenated hydrocarbon groups particu larly fluorocarbon groups such as a trifluoropropyl group are preferred. In the second system B , the compound having the group for modifying the refractive index also has the silicone hydride group, while the siloxane polymer has the carbon carbon unsaturated group. In this system, the siloxane polymer may have the following chemical formula EMI7.1 wherein R1 , R21, R3, and Rq are, the same or different, a a C1 C12 alkyl or alkoxy group with the proviso that at least one of them is the carbon carbon unsaturated group or a group containing said unsaturated group and x and y are the same as defined above. Preferably, the alkyl or alkoxy group is a C1 C3 alkyl or alkoxy group. Preferably, the both chain terminals of the polymer are blocked by the carbon carbon unsaturate groups. Examples of the compound having the group for modifying the refractive index and the silicon hydride group may be represented by the following chemical formula EMI8.1 wherein R5 , R6 and R7 are, the same or different, an aromatic group e.g. phenyl, naphthyl, anthryl and the like , a C1 C8 alkyl or alkoxy group or a C3 C8 cycloalkyl group with the proviso that at least one of them is the group for modifying the refractive index. Specific examples of said silane compound IV are phenyldimethylsilane, diphenylmethylsilane, phenylsilane, diphenylsilane, methylphenylsilane, p bis dimethylsilyl benzene, triphenylsilane, bis p dimethylsilyl phenyl ether, cyclohexyldimethylsilane and the like. Further, the siloxane compound V such as 1,3 diphenyl 1,3 dimethylsiloxane are used. As the compound having the group for modifying the refractive index and the silicon hydride group, used is not only a low molecular weight compound but also a siloxane polymer having not so high molecular weight produced from the system A . That is, by the hydrosilyl reaction of the system A , the siloxane polymer having the group for modifying the refractive index is prepared so as to form a polymer having unreacted silicon hydride groups. Then, the unreacted silicon hydride groups are reacted with the siloxane polymer having the carbon carbon unsaturated groups. The siloxane polymer of the present invention may be prepared by the hydrosilyl reaction of the system A or B . In this case, the prepared siloxane polymer may still has the unreacted silicon hydride or carbon carbon unsaturated groups in the molecule. Such the unreacted groups serve to provide cross linking sites to be used in subsequent cross linking of the polymer. The liquid optical siloxane polymer of the present invention is in a liquid state under normal conditions.Usually, it has a molecular weight of 1,000 to 1,000,000, preferably 5,000 to 300,000. The hydroxyl reaction according to the present invention can be carried out in a suitable solvent e.g.benzene, toluene, methyl ethyl ketone, tetrahydrofuran and the like in the presence or absence of a catalyst e.g. H2PtCl6, Na2PtCl6, PhCl PPh3 3 and the like . The reaction time is preferably 1 to 100 hours. The polymerization is usually carried out under atmospheric pressure, although it may be carried out in a sealed reactor under high pressure. According to the present invention, since a varying amount of the group for modifying the refractive index can be introduced in the siloxane polymer, the refractive index of the siloxane polymer can be precisely controlled as desired. Since it is not necessary to prepare and polymerize a siloxane monomer having a group for modifying the refractive index, preparation of the monomer is easy, and various kinds of the group for modifying the refractive index can be introduced in the siloxane polymer. When the siloxane polymer has the unreacted silicon hydride groups and or the unreacted carbon carbon unsaturated groups, it can be easily cross linked. Presently and practically preferred embodiments of the present invention are illustrated by following examples. Example 1 A siloxane polymer of the formula EMI10.1 Mw 14,000, 1 32.2 by mole, nD20 1.11021 and styrene were subjected to the hydrosilyl reaction at 400C for 3 hours in the presence of a 3.8 x 10 3 M solution of H2tPtCl6 in isopropanol 0.1 ml . Then, the reaction product was dissolved in toluene, washed with water and precipitated with methanol to obtain a transparent liquid polymer. The reaction conditions and the properties of the product are shown in Table 1.Table 1EMI11.1 tb SEP No. SEP Siloxane SEP polymer SEP Styrene SEP nD20 SEP Abbe s SEP Tg tb SEP g SEP number SEP C tb SEP Kind SEP Amount SEP g tb SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 5 SEP 10 SEP 1.5330 SEP 37.0 SEP 47.4 tb SEP 2 SEP 1 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 1.5120 SEP 37.7 SEP 61.1 tb SEP 3 SEP 2 SEP 5 SEP 3 SEP 1.4708 SEP 39.4 SEP 92.5 tb SEP 4 SEP 2 SEP 5 SEP 1 SEP 1.4423 SEP 43.9 SEP 110.3 tb 5 SEP 2 SEP 5 SEP 0.5 SEP 1.4255 SEP 46.0 SEP 113.9 tb Fig. 1 sows the NMR spectrum of the siloxane polymer obtained in Example 1, No. 1. A peak corresponding to the vinyl group disappeared while peaks corresponding to the methyl, methylene and methine groups to which the silicon atom and the phenyl group are attached appear at 6 1.3 ppm, 0.8 and 2.5 ppm, and 2.0 ppm, respectively. Example 2 One siloxane polymer selected from the group consisting of the siloxane polymers 1 and 2 used in Example 1 and siloxane polymers of the formulas EMI12.1 Mw 10,000, 1 13.3 by mole, nD20 1.4033 andEMI12.2 Mw 61,500, 1 2.4 by mole, nD20 1.4056 and 2 vinylnaphthalene were each dissolved in chloroform 10 ml . 1 ml aliquots or 2 ml aliquots in No. 6 of the solutions were mixed and reacted at 700C for 73 hours in the presence of a solution of H2 PtCl6 in methanol 1 ml . The reaction product was precipitated with methanol. The precipitate was dissolved in toluene and reprecipitated with methanol to obtain a transparent liquid polymer.The reaction conditions and the properties of the product are shown in Table 2. Table 2EMI13.1 tb No. SEP Siloxane SEP polymer SEP 2 vinyl SEP Concent SEP nD20 SEP Abbe s SEP Tg tb SEP naphthalene SEP ration SEP of SEP number SEP C SEP tb SEP Kind SEP Amount SEP g SEP g SEP H2 PtC163 SEP tb SEP M tb 1 SEP 1 SEP 1.216 SEP 2.436 SEP 4.72x10 4 SEP 1.6141 SEP 22.5 SEP 13.0 tb 2 SEP 2 SEP 4.014 SEP 2.783 SEP 1.18x10 3 SEP 1.5164 SEP 29.1 SEP 68.5 tb 3 SEP 2 SEP 4.014 SEP 2.783 SEP 4.72x10 4 SEP 1.4989 SEP 31.0 SEP 84.7 tb 4 SEP 3 SEP 4.571 SEP 2.783 SEP 1.18x10 3 SEP 1.4641 SEP 32.8 SEP 113.2 tb 5 SEP 3 SEP 4.571 SEP 2.783 SEP 4. SEP 72x10 SEP 1.11597 SEP 1 SEP 117.2 SEP tb 6 SEP 4 SEP 6.087 SEP 2.784 SEP 1.18x10 3 SEP 1.4125 SEP 44.9 SEP 123.2 tb Fig. 2 shows the NMR spectrum of the siloxane polymer obtained in Example 2, No. 1. A peak corresponding to the vinyl group disappeared while peaks corresponding to the methyl, methylene and methine groups to which the silicon atom and the naphthyl group are attached appear at 6 3 1.3 ppm, 0.8 and 2.6 ppm, and 2.1 ppm, respectively. Example 3 Perfluorooctylethylene and one of the siloxane polymers 1 to 3 used in the previous Examples were each dissolved in chloroform 10 ml and 1 ml aliquots of two solutions were mixed with a 1.18 x 10 3 3 M solution ofH2 PtCl6 in methanol 1 ml to proceed the reaction in the same manner as in Example 2 to obtain a transparent liquid polymer. The reaction conditions and the properties of the product are shown in Table 3.Table 3EMI14.1 tb No. SEP Siloxane SEP polymer SEP Perfluoro SEP nD20 SEP Abbe s SEP Tg tb SEP octyl SEP number SEP C tb SEP Kind SEP Amount SEP g SEP ethylene tb SEP g tb 1 SEP 1 SEP 1.145 SEP 8.020 SEP 1.3659 SEP 66.2 SEP 53.5 tb 2 SEP 2 SEP 2.007 SEP 8.036 SEP 1.3836 SEP 53.2 SEP SEP 1111.2 SEP tb 3 SEP 3 SEP 4.571 SEP 8.036 SEP 1.4009 SEP 48.7 SEP 124.6 SEP tb Fig. 3 shows the NMR spectrum of the siloxane polymer obtained in Example 3, No. 3. A peak corresponding to the methylene group to which the silicon atom and the perfluorooctyl group are attached appear around 6 1.0 and 2.6 ppm. Example 4 9 Vinylanthracene and one of the siloxane polymers 1 to 3 used in the previous Examples were each dissolved in chloroform 10 ml and 1 ml aliquots of two solutions were mixed with a 4.72 x 10 4 M solution of H2 PtCl6 in methanol 1 ml and chloroform 1 ml to proceed the reaction at 700C for 118 hours and the product was recovered in the same manner as in Example 2 to obtain a transparent liquid. The reaction conditions and the properties of the product are shown in Table 4. EMI15.1 MW 132,200 , k 24.2 , nD20 1,416 and phenyldimethylsilane were subjected to the hydrosilyl reaction at 500C for 3 hours in the presence of a 3.8 x 10 3M solution of H2 PtCl6 in isopropanol 0.1 ml . Then, the reaction product was dissolved in toluene, washed with water and precipitated with methanol, recovered and dried to obtain a transparent liquid polymer. The reaction conditions and the properties of the product are shown in Table 5. Table 5EMI15.2 tb No. SEP Siloxane SEP Styrene SEP ND20 SEP Abbe s tb SEP polymer SEP g SEP g tb SEP 1 SEP 4 SEP 0.4 SEP 1.422 SEP 40.3 tb SEP 2 SEP 11 SEP 1.8 SEP 1.450 SEP 39.6 tb SEP 3 SEP 4 SEP 3.6 SEP 1.467 SEP 39.0 tb Example 6A siloxane polymer 2.0 g of the formula EMI15.3 Mw 62,400, m 19.3 , nD20 1.1113 Table 4 EMI16.1 tb No. SEP Siloxane SEP polymer SEP 9 Vinyl SEP nD20 SEP Abbe s SEP Tg tb SEP anthracene SEP number SEP C tb SEP Kind SEP Amount SEP g SEP g tb 1 SEP 1 SEP 0.11185 SEP 0.451 SEP 1.6528 SEP SEP 12.5 tb 2 SEP 1 SEP 0.1753 SEP 0.2485 SEP 1.5643 SEP 20.2 SEP 6.5 tb 3 SEP 2 SEP 0.2025 SEP 0.1317 SEP 1.5056 SEP 24.0 SEP 82.2 tb 4 SEP 3 SEP 0.3000 SEP 0.0946 SEP 1.4241 SEP 41.8 SEP 124.2 tb Fig. 4 shows the NMR spectrum of the siloxane polymer obtained in Example 11, No. 11. A peak corresponding to the methylene group to which the silicon atom and the anthryl group are attached appear around 6 RTI ID 16.9 1.0 ppm. The relationship between the refractive index and the glass transition temperature or Abbe s number is shown in Fig. 5 or Fig. 6. Form Fig. 5, it is understood that as the refractive index increases, the glass transition temperature increases but is still below a room temperature, which means that the siloxane polymer has rubbery elasticity. From Fig. 6, it is understood that the liquid siloxane polymer of the present invention has smaller Abbe s number corresponding to larger dispersion than the conventional optical plastics. Example 5 A siloxane polymer of the formula and diphenylmethylsilane 2.0 g were subjected to the hydrosilyl reaction at 700C for 1 hour in toluene 5 ml in the presence of a 3.8 x 10 3 M solution of H2 PtCl6 in isopropanol 0.5 ml . Then, the reaction product was precipitated with methanol, recovered and dried to obtain a transparent liquid polymer. 20 nD 1.11771, Abbe s number 38.8. Example 7 The siloxane polymer 6 2.0 g and triphenylsilane were subjected to the hydrosilyl reaction at 700C for 1 hour in toluene 5 ml in the presence of a 3.8 x 10 3 M solution of H2 PtCl6 in isopropanol 0.5 ml . Then, the reaction product was precipitated with methanol, recovered and dried to obtain a transparent liquid polymer. nD20 1.433, Abbe s number 39.2. Example 8 1,1,3,3 Tetramethyldisiloxane 1.3 g , 2 vinylnaphthalene 1.5 g , toluene 3 g and a 3.8 x 10 3 M solution of H2EPtCl6 in isopropanol 0.1 ml were thoroughly mixed to proceed the hydrosilyl reaction at 500C for 3 hours. Then, the reaction product was mixed with the siloxane polymer 6 2.0 g to proceed additional hydro silyl reaction at 500C for 3 hours. The product was preci pitated with methanol, recovered and dried to obtain a transparent liquid polymer. 20 nD 1.1120, Abbe1s number 39.6. Example 9A siloxane polymer 5.0 g of the formula EMI18.1 Mw 4,700, p 32.2 , nD20 1.1102 CH2 CHC4F9 1.0 g and a 3.8 x 10 3 M solution of H2 PtCl6 in isopropanol 0.1 ml were mixed to proceed the hydrosilyl reaction at 50 C for 3 hours. Then, the reaction product was precipitated with methanol, recovered and dried to obtain a liquid polymer. The liquid polymer 0.2 g , the siloxane polymer 6 1.0 g and the 3.8 x 10 3 3 M solution of H2 PtCl6 in isopropanol 0.05 ml were mixed to proceed additional hydrosilyl reaction at 700C for 1 hour. The product was precipitated with methanol, recovered and dried to obtain a transparent liquid polymer. ND20 1.400, Abbe s number 40.2.