# LAYOUT PROCESS FOR CASCODE VOLTAGE SWITCH LOGIC

## Claims
Verfahren zur Konstruktion eines Schaltkreises aus einer Darstellung der Logikgatter, wobei der Schaltkreis eine Vielzahl von funktionellen Blöcken enthält und das Verfahren den Schritt zur Anordnung der Schaltelemente der funktionellen Blöcke in einem linearen Feld aus diesen Schaltelementen mit dem Ziel der Maximierung der Anzahl der nebeneinanderliegend verbundenen Schaltelemente enthält,

## Description
The invention relates generally to integrated circuits. In particular, the invention relates to a method for synthesizing the layouts of integrated logic circuits. A relatively new technology in integrated circuits is cascode voltage switch logic CVS or, as it is sometimes called, domino logic. This technology is described by Griffin et al. in U.S. Patent 4,570,084 EP A 147 598 filed November 21, 1983 and by Erdelyi et al in a technical article entitled Cascode Voltage Switch Logic appearing in the IBM Technical Journal, vol. 27, no. 7A, December 1984 at 3791 3793. This is a CMOS technology. In its static version, for every p channel FET field effect transistor there is a corresponding n channel FET. An example of a functional block of such a CVS circuit is shown in Figure 1 for an exemplary logic function. An upper section, connected to a positive power supply V, consists of five P channel MOS transistors 1P, 2P, 3P, 4P and 5P with their respective gates connected to corresponding signals inputs 1G, 2G, 3G, 4G and 5G. A lower section of the circuit, connected to ground, consists of five N channel MOS transistors 1N, 2N, 3N, 4N and 5N. The gates of the N channel transistors are controlled by the same gate input signals 1G 5G as the corresponding P channel transistors 1P 5P. At the junction between the P channel and the N channel section, there is an output node OUT that carries the output signal of the illustrated CVS functional block. The illustrated functional block would typically be a small part of a much larger logic circuit with other parts of the larger logic circuit having other different but similarly designed CVS functional blocks. The gate input signals 1G 5G are either primary inputs of the larger logic circuit or are the output signals OUT of other smaller CVS functional blocks. One of the advantages of CVS logic is the compact design that is possible. For instance, the circuit of Figure 1 can be laid out, as illustated in Figure 2, using a P type substrate. An N type diffusion creates two upper N wells 13 and 14 separated by a diffusion break 15 and two lower N wells 16 and 18 also separated by the same diffusion break 15. Then a P type diffusion creates two P wells 20 and 22 within the upper N wells 13 and 14. Finally, gate electrodes 22₁, 22₂, 22₃, 22₄ and 22₅, are deposited over both the N wells 16 and 18 and the P wells 22 and are connected to the corresponding gate input signals 1G 5G. It is seen that a tightly packed and efficiently laid out circuit results, especially for a circuit that is considerably larger than that illustrated. An inspection of Figure 2 shows that the space occupied by the diffusion break 15 is the same space occupied by a gate electrode 22. Diffusion breaks 15 are required whenever equivalent paths cannot be formed through both the N type transistors 1N 5N and the P type transistors 1P 5P. An equivalent path is one that passes through the N type transistors 1N 5N in the same order as the equivalent path passes through the P type transistors under the condition that no path can cross itself. In Fig. 1, it is seen that the path through the P type transistors 1P 5P needs to be divided. Whenever the path is broken, a diffusion break is made. Accordingly, a compact CVS design attempts to minimize the number of diffusion breaks as they double the gate to gate spacing. Uehara et al. in a technical article entitled Optimal Layout of CMOS Functional Arrays appearing in IEEE Transactions on Computers, vol. C 30, no. 5, May 1981 at pp. 305 312 describe a method for improving the density of similar CMOS circuits by ordering the CMOS gates. However Uehara et al require that the switch level representation of the circuit already be available. From Proceedings of the International Conference of the 5th Generation Computer System, 1984, Tokyo, 6th 9th November 1984, pages 563 571, ICOT, Tokyo, JP F. MARUYAMA et al. Prolog based system design a CMOS design method is known employing a heuristic algorithm to minimize the array size. The method starts from a given functional logic cell and employs the method of Uehara et al. to minimize the number of separations between diffusion regions. However the method described in this document does not provide for a fully automated synthesis of integrated circuits. E.g., it is in the designer s responsibility to define functional cells which have to be optimized. Further no automatic establishing of the internal wiring connections is provided. CVS logic is expected to be used in relatively large integrated circuits. The hand design of large integrated circuits, even assuming the availability of a logic diagram, is a time consuming job. As a result, there has been an increasing emphasis upon the automatic layout of integrated circuit chips utilizing computer programs. However, traditional automated design systems have sacrificed density and speed in order to reduce the total design and product introduction time. It is felt that presently available automated design is unsatisfactory, particularly for CVS. The invention as claimed solves the problem of how to provide for an automated method of synthesizing a circuit, in particular of a CVS circuit, from a logic gate representation with a reduced number of diffusion breaks. The invention can be summarized as a method, amenable to automation, for laying out a circuit starting with a logic gate representation. The logic circuit is divided into functional blocks such that each block has a maximum number of transistors in series. Then, for each block, the transistors are ordered so as to minimize the number of transistors that do not have connections to neighboring transistors in a linear array. The internal wiring connections to the ordered transistors are then determined according to the type of logic gate they represent. Finally, the transistors and wiring are placed in their final layout. The invention is described in more detail with reference to the drawings in which The invention presupposes the availability of a logic diagram for the desired cascode voltage switch CVS logic circuit. The practice of the invention uses four steps, shown in Figure 3 for producing the CVS layout. First, the logic diagram is divided or parsed into blocks having a set maximum number of serially connected transistors, The maximum number is 4 in the example. Secondly, the ordering of the gates and breaks are computed according to a presented algorithm. Adjacent transistors, not separated by a diffusion break, are connected by the diffusion. Thirdly, the internal wiring connections are computed and are correlated to the connection list of the previous step. Finally, the individual gates can be automatically placed and wired. These steps will be presented in greater detail below. Each of the steps is described in sufficient detail as to allow the automatic layout by use of computer programs. To illustrate many of the algorithms of this invention, the same example will be used throughout. The exemplary Boolean logic circuit is shown in Figure 4 and consists of four levels of logic driven by twelve inputs. The first level consists of an OR gate 24 and two AND gates 26 and 28. The second level consists of an OR gate 30. The third level consists of two AND gates 32 and 34. The fourth level consists of a NOR gate 36, the output of which is the output OUT of the basic logic group. The output OUT can be used either as an input to another logic group of a larger logic circuit or as the output of the logic circuit itself. Single ended CVS derives its density advantage from a parallel arrangement of N type FETs 38 and P type MOS Transistors 40, as illustrated in Figure 5. The corresponding N type transistors 38 and the P type transistors 40 share a common gate electrode and adjacent transistors 38 or 40 share a common source drain region. The transistor representation of Figure 5 is implemented in CVS by the integrated circuit representation of Figure 6. The CVS integrated circuit consists of a lower N diffusion mask 42 and upper N well mask 44, through which N type ions are diffused into a P type substrate. A P diffusion mask 46 is used to diffuse P type ions into the resultant upper N well 44. Over the resultant structure, an oxide is formed except in regions of paired contact holes 48 that provide contact to the underlying lower N diffusions 42 or the P diffusions 46. The two paired contact holes 48 are equivalent and provide external connection to the common source drain. Transverse gate electrodes 50, of for instance polysilicon, control the gates of corresponding NMOS transistors 38 and PMOS transistors 40. The logic functionality is obtained by personalizing the metal and contact levels and various gate electrodes 50 are replaced by diffusion breaks in the diffusion masks 42 46. Transistors are preferably arranged so that the maximum number of connected transistors are adjacent to one another, thus minimizing the diffusion breaks. One of the first steps for implementing a large logic chip by use of an automated design system is the parsing of the Boolean logic into smaller functional blocks. In the master slice and master image techniques, the designer is given a fixed set of functional blocks with which to construct his Boolean logic. Master slice uses NAND gates while master image provides a more expanded library of functional blocks. However, in either approach, the Boolean building blocks are set by the approach and the designer must use these blocks to design the Boolean logic necessary for the desired function. In the present approach, the designer is free to design his Boolean logic and the design system creates the required building blocks. The process of parsing logic into small functional blocks, which then can be laid out using the single ended CVS approach, is driven by a number of guidelines. These guidelines are These restraints imply a number of rules for breaking up a larger circuit into smaller functional blocks. These rules are as follows Gates are added to the functional blocks until the maximum number of series transistors has been reached. By applying logic synthesis techniques in the process, inverters can be pushed either backwards or forwards through a circuit to ensure that every functional block will have four transistors in series. The process of determining the number of series devices is described in detail below. Of course, the requirement of four series devices is an arbitrarily set limit. Other values could be used dependent upon the technology. The described approach does not ensure an optimal restructuring in terms of speed and density. Such optimization is probably possible only by trial and error. The described approach simply guarantees the automatic but nonetheless satisfactory selection of functional blocks. The determination of the number of transistors in series between the power supply and the output OUT, as illustrated in Figure 1, is important for speed considerations. In CMOS CVS logic, the concept of duality can be applied. Since for every P type transistor there is a corresponding N type transistor, and the gates of both transistors are controlled by a common signal, the P type transistor is off when the corresponding N type transistor is on and vice versa. Furthermore, a configuration of P type devices in series will imply a configuration of corresponding N type devices in parallel and vice versa. As in NMOS technology, a group of N type devices in series provide an AND function and a group of N type devices in parallel provide an OR function. Similarly, the duality implies that P type devices in series provide an OR function and P type devices in parallel provide an AND function. As a result, Boolean AND gates increase the number of N type devices in series, ultimately increasing the number of levels, between the output OUT and ground. On the other hand, Boolean OR gates increase the number of P type devices in series between the power supply and the output OUT. The speed of the CVS circuit is inversely proportional to the number of levels in the logic block. A rule is set that the number of P type transistors in series and the number of N type transistors in series is limited to four. This limitation is, of course, arbitrary. Another possibility would have been to set the limit at three P type devices in series and five N type devices in series to account for the differing speeds of the two device types. The algorithm used to determine the number of levels in any logic block is as follows This procedure for determining the number of series devices is summarized in Figure 7. The algorithm is applied to the logic block of Figure 4, as illustrated in Figure 8. In this figure, the first number in parentheses is the P type level value and the second number is the N type level value. The example of Fig. 8 provides no more than the maximum number of four serial devices so that the logic block of Fig. 8 does not need to be broken up. If however the level values at an output exceeded the respective limits for P type or N type level values, then the next lower logic gates which do not have their level values exceeding the limits define the right most limit of the allowed logic block. All logic gates supplying inputs directly or indirectly to the logic gate at the right most limit are included in the allowed logic block. If more than one logic block is found to be required, then the output of the first defined logic block is used as a primary input on another logic block with a P type level value and N type level value of unity assigned to that input. The rules limit the output logic gate of a logic block to be inverting, that is either a NAND or NOR gate with all other logic gates being either AND or OR gates. In fact, this set of limitations imposes no real limitations. Brayton et al. in two technical articles entitled Fast Recursive Boolean Function Manipulation and The Decomposition and Factorization of Boolean Expressions appearing in IEEE International Symposium on Circuits and Systems 1982, have shown transformations of logic circuits that allow the inverting NOT function to be pushed forwards or backwards through the logic circuit with an accompanying transformation of the type of the logic gate. Thus the gate ordering can proceed irrespective of the existence of the NOT function. Once the logic blocks have established, the transformation is performed to ensure the placement of a NAND or NOR gate at the output of a logic block and nowhere else. If an additional inverting function between logic blocks is required, then a trivial logic block is inserted of a NOT gate, a single CMOS pair of transistors. The second step in the invention is the process of ordering the gate electrodes which is equivalent to finding equivalent paths through the N type and P type transistors. Pseudo inputs P are inserted to guarantee that traversing a group of gate select rods does not result in returning to the start. A pseudo input P or more than one neighboring pseudo inputs correspond to a diffusion break. For maximum density circuits, the number of diffusion breaks is minimized, that is, the paths are made as long as possible. An algorithm for ordering the gate electrodes in order to minimize the diffusion breaks was presented in the previously cited article by Uehara et al although they relied upon the existence of a switch level representation of the circuit. The algorithm presented here is a slightly modified version that enables the ordering to be performed at the Boolean gate level. Each logic gate G For every Boolean gate that has an even number of inputs, a pseudo input P is added to the beginning of the input lists. The lists for the logic block of Figure 4 is presented in Table 1. The ordering algorithm is shown in the flow diagram of Figure 9 and is sequentially applied to each of the Boolean gates of a logic group beginning with the gates in the lowest level. The ordering in the lower levels is substituted into the sub lists of the higher level gates. In the first step, it is determined if there is any input sub list that has pseudo inputs P at both ends. A sub list with a single entry is defined to have that same entry at both ends. If there is such a sub list, that one sub list is saved in the presented order and execution returns to the first step. If there is no sub list with pseudo inputs on both ends, then execution moves to a second step where it is determined if there is a remaining input sub list with a pseudo input P at one end and a real input at the other. If such a sub list exists, then this sub list is saved with the pseudo input P placed first by a rotation of the entries in the sub lists if necessary. Only one sub list is saved at a time per each execution of the second step. Regardless of the outcome of the test of the second step, execution continues in the third step in which it is determined if there is a remaining input sub list that has real inputs on both ends. If there is such a sub list, then that one sub list is saved in the stated order and then execution returns to the third step to find the remaining sub lists with real inputs on both ends. When all the sub lists with real inputs on both ends have been saved, the test of the third step produces a negative result and execution is transferred to a fourth step in which it is determined if there is a remaining input sub list with a pseudo input P on one end and a real input on the other end. Note that this is the same test as in the second step. If such a sub list is found, that one sub list is saved with the pseudo input P placed last with a rotation of the sub list if necessary. Then it is determined if there are any input sub lists remaining to be processed for the one Boolean gate. If there are, then execution returns to the first step and in this way all input sub lists are eventually saved. Once the input sub lists are all saved, the algorithm is completed for the one Boolean gate. The algorithm is then successively applied to the remaining Boolean gates of that level and then to the gates of the next higher level until the output OUT is reached. The effect of the algorithm is to place pseudo inputs P at either end of the final saved list or to cluster them at internal points. One or more adjacent pseudo inputs P represent a single diffusion break. Diffusion breaks are required at either end in any case. Clustering of pseudo inputs P reduces the final number of diffusion breaks. The algorithm of Figure 9 is applied to the input lists of Table 1 to produce the saved lists of Table 2. A saved list has its entries separated by commas instead of colons. The application of the algorithm to level one is trivial since it results in the sub lists being saved in the same order in which they were presented. A rotation of the single entry sub list causes no change. The operation for level two is a bit more complex. First of all, saved lists of level one are substituted into the presented lists of level two. The first sub list P satisfies the first test and is immediately saved. The second sub list P,9,10 satisfies the second test and is saved in the presented order since the pseudo input is first. There is no sub list that satisfies the third test. However, the third sub list P,11,12 satisfies the fourth test and is saved in reverse order in order to place the pseudo input P last. A single pass through the algorithm processes all the sub lists for the one Boolean gate in the second level. The processing of the gate list G₃₄ in the third level introduces the effect that the third sub list P,P,9,10,12,11,P is saved before the second sub list 8 . The saved list G₃₆ for the output Boolean gate 36 shows only one internal diffusion break for all ten inputs. If this is not the optimal result, it is very close. The final gate ordering is the sequence of gate electrodes of the form 9 10 12 11 7 6 8 1 5 4 3 2 , where represents a diffusion break. This gate electrode ordering further provides a list of connections. A connection is a source drain area shared by two neighboring gate electrodes or is the source or drain area facing a diffusion break. These are the areas that can be connected to through the contact holes 48. It should be noted that because of the bi directionality of MOS gates, it is not necessary to distinguish between the source and drain. The list of available wiring connections for the example of Table 2 is The previously described gate ordering algorithm has arrived at the desired order of the gate electrodes, or alternatively of the P type and N type transistors controlled by that gate electrode. It should be noted that aside from the parsing prior to the ordering operation, no consideration has been given as to whether the logic gates are AND gates or OR gates. Thus the ordering procedure differs significantly from that of Uehara et al. whose ordering is based on a completely defined transistor level circuit. The internal wiring algorithm will now be described. The algorithm accounts for which of the logic gates are AND gates and which are OR gates. In a simple logic group consisting of a single AND gate, the two N type transistors are wired in series and the two P type transistors are wired in parallel. However, in a more complex functional cell, a higher level logic function may include several AND or OR gates which are interconnected. The same series parallel rules arising from the CMOS duality apply in this case but it is much more difficult to know which transistors should be connected together to form the proper series parallel combination while still maintaining a high density layout. Accordingly, a rather complex internal algorithm is required to account for all possible combinations. Since a number of transistors already share the same source drain diffusions, as determined by the gate ordering algorithm, a portion of the connections have already been implicitly defined. The remaining connections must take into account which side of the transistors receives the connections and to where the power supply, the ground and the output OUT are connected. The method used to determine these connections is tabular and is defined as follows As previously mentioned for the example, the list of available wiring connections, as shown in the top row of both the P side and the n side tables, is 9, 9 10, 10 12, 12 11, 11, 7, 7 6, 6 8, 8 1, 1 5, 5 4, 4 3, 3 2, 2 . Drawing from this list, the connections to the diffusion on the P side are Thus it is seen that a connection is made to all the P type transistors which are to be interconnected and the connection can be made to either the shared source drain region or to a source or a drain facing a diffusion break. A similar set of connections is made on the n side as follows A schematic representation of the single ended CVS circuit produced by the internal wiring algorithm is shown in Figure 12. This is a switch level representation although the N type transistor 38 and the P type transistor 40 are shown in the same sequence as in the final layout and the distinction between diffusion connections and wiring connections are apparent. A diffusion break 62 interrupts the otherwise present diffusion connections. With the circuit diagram of Figure 12, represented in appropriate computerized data bases, the semiconductor layout can be finally accomplished by automatic placement and wiring algorithm. These techniques have been used in the past with automatic design systems such as master slice and master image and present no inherent problems in single ended CVS. One such technique is disclosed by K. Lallier in U.S. Patent Application Serial No. 495,021, filed May 16, 1983. The important aspect of the final image defined by means of the present invention is that all gates electrodes are placed at constant pitch and may be extended to contact the first layer metal in the wiring channel. The placement and wiring algorithms must be able to accommodate the fine granularity of one transistor length associated with the cell size. An example of the final layout for the circuit of Figure 12 is shown in Figure 13. An upper N well 64 is unbroken. However, a diffusion break splits the lower N diffusion masks 66 and 68 and also splits the P diffusion mask into two P diffusion masks 70 and 72. Gate electrodes 74 are laid at fixed pitch except for the diffusion break. Contact holes 76 reach down to connect the diffusions to metal connections lines 78. The connections lines 78 may be connected to a power supply line 80 or a ground line 82. The output OUT is likewise a selected connection line 84. The gate electrodes 74 are twisted to avoid the contact holes 76 and thus provide greater density. The circuit automatically laid out according to this invention provides a circuit with high density and a low switching time relative to a circuit in which each logic gate forms its own CVS logic group. Thus the invention provides a method for arriving at a nearly optimal design in a single pass. Although the example has been described in terms of flow diagrams and table construction, it is apparent that a suitable computer program to perform the same tasks can be written. The computer program of course offers the advantages of additional speed and error free design.