# ALPHA OLEFIN BLOCK COPOLYMER PARTICLES AND PROCESS FOR THE PRODUCTION THEREOF

## Claims
Verfahren zur Herstellung von Teilchen aus α Olefinblockcopolymeren, umfassend

## Description
This invention related to α olefin block copolymer particles which are produced by so called gas phase polymerization where gaseous α olefin are directly converted into polymer. More particularly, it related to α olefin block copolymer particles having excellent impact resistance at low temperature and excellent molding and processing characteristics, and a process for the production thereof by polymerizing α olefins by two steps under specific conditions in the presence of a specific catalyst system. Since a catalyst for producing stereoregular polymer had been found by Ziegler, Natta et al., there have been produced crystalline α olefin polymers on an industrial scale. Among the conventional processes for the industrial production of the polymers, a blurry polymerization process has the most widely been used, where an α olefin s is are polymerized in an inert liquid solvent or liquified propylene. However, the slurry polymerization has some drawbacks. For instance, in said process, the produced polymer is separated from the solvent or liquified propylene and then dried. The separated solvent or liquified propylene contains low crystalline polymers dissolved therein, and hence, in order to re use the solvent, or propylene the dissolved polymers must be removed therefrom. That is, after the removal of the low crystalline polymers, the solvent or propylene is purified and then re used. Thus, this process requires complicated procedure and a large energy for the removal of low crystalline polymers. Moreover, when a polymer containing a large amount of low crystalline polymers is produced by the process, the low crystalline polymers are dissolved in the solvent or liquified propylene in a large amount, which causes increase of viscosity of the polymerization system. In such a case, it is difficult to remove the polymerization heat, and further, due to adhesion of the polymer particles onto the polymerization vessel, the desired polymer is hardly obtainable. US A 4,308,357 and JP A 57 145113 disclose processes for producing propylene ethylene block copolymers in a liquified propylene by using an improved catalyst system. JP A 57 174311 discloses a process for producing a propylene ethylene block copolymer by using an improved co catalyst system. Further, EP A 0111901 discloses a catalyst having high activity which can give a polypropylene having high stereoregularity. The processes of these references may improve somewhat the above mentioned drawbacks in the slurry polymerization, but do not solve the essential problems in the slurry polymerization such as difficulty in the recovery of the large amount of solvent or propylene used therein and some problems associated therewith. In order to avoid such drawbacks in the slurry polymerization, it has been proposed to polymerize α olefin s in gaseous phase in the absence of an inert liquid solvent, but such a gas phase polymerization process has still some problems to be solved in order to produce a block copolymer having improved impact resistance at low temperature and improved molding and processing characteristics. One of the most important problems in the gas phase polymerization process is that in case of the production of a polymer containing a large amount of low crystalline polymers, such as a block copolymer having excellent impact resistance, the polymer particles usually easily adhere onto the polymerization vessel and hence it is difficult to obtain the desired polymer stability. EP A 0037291 discloses a block copolymerization process comprising the first step of polymerizing propylene by slurry polymerization and the second step of polymerizing propylene and α olefin by a gas phase polymerization wherein an improved co catalyst is added in order to improve the impact resistance of the copolymer. Although this process can improve the property of the block copolymer, it does not solve the above mentioned problem, that is to give the desired polymer stability by improving the adhesion properties of the polymer particles. In order to eliminate the drawback, it is necessary to lower the adhesion properties of the polymer particles. As a reaction vessel for gas phase polymerization of α olefin s , there are used an agitating mixing type vessel, a fluidized bed type vessel, an agitating fluidized bed type vessel, and the like. However, with increase of adhesion of the polymer particles, an extremely large force for agitation is required in order to obtain the desired rotation of agitator, which causes difficulty in design of apparatus. Besides, it becomes occasionally difficulty in homogeneous mixing of the reaction mixture and some portions becomes too high temperature, which results in production of partial chunk which injures the agitator, thermometer, etc. within the reaction vessel or results in difficulty in taking out of the polymer through a pipe from the vessel. Moreover, in case of polymerization in the fluidized bed, it tends to occur a slugging phenomenon, and hence, a large amount of the polymer particles fly into the gas circulation line and adhere onto the line, which results in closing of the line. There is also occasionally produced undesirable partial chunk owing to difficulty in homogeneous mixing. In case of the production of polymer particles having high adhesion property, the pipe for transferring the polymer particles is easily closed. Besides, undesirable bridging occurs at the lower part of a cyclone or within the hopper, and hence, the polymer can not stably be taken out. Accordingly, it is very difficult to produce a polymer containing a large amount of low crystalline polymer by a gas phase polymerization process, while the process has an advantage that there is not used any liquid solvent dissolving the low crystalline polymer. Another important problem in the gas phase polymerization process is that it is necessary to prevent a wide range of distribution of particle size. That is, according to the conventional gas phase polymerization process, in order to homogeneously mix the reaction mixture and to remove easily the polymerization heat, a part of gaseous components is usually drawn out from the top of the reaction vessel and cooled to remove partially or wholly the polymerization heat and then returned to the reaction vessel. In a typical process where gas components are circulated, there are used a fluidized bed type vessel or an agitating fluidized bed type vessel, wherein a part or whole of the gas is circulated, and thereby, the power necessary for agitation can be saved and the mixture can homogeneously be mixed which results in easy removal of polymerization heat. However, when the polymerization is carried out by using a catalyst system containing a large amount of fine particles within a reaction vessel wherein the gas components are circulated, the fine particles of the catalyst and also the polymer particles fly within the vessel, which causes some troubles in operation. For instance, the fine particles are accompanied with the gas to be exhausted from the reaction vessel into the circulation line and adhere onto the pipes and devices provided in the line, such as cyclone, filter, heat exchanger, compressor, flowmeter, and the like, and hence, the devices lose significantly their capacity and occasionally become to be inoperative owing to closing thereof. Moreover, the fine particles fly to the dilute phase of the polymer within the reaction vessel and adhere onto devices provided therein such as thermometer, and in such a phase, the polymerization reaction proceeds to produce chunk which causes close of pipes, and further with increase of the chunk, a homogeneous fluidized bed is hardly obtained, which results in difficulty of removal of polymerization heat and hence in further increase of the amount of chunk. In case of using an agitating reaction vessel, the agitator as well as other devices such as thermometer are injured by the produced chunk. When there is used a solid catalyst which contains components having a large particle size, the catalyst particles flow insufficiently within the fluidized bed type reaction vessel, which results in incomplete removal of polymerization heat and hence in the production of undesirable chunk. There has also proposed an impoved gas phase polymerization process. In this improved process, the catalyst residue and atactic polypropylene having undesirable physical properties are substantially not removed, and hence, there must be used a specific catalyst system which has highly improved streoregular properties and polymerization activity. In addition to the problems during the steps of the process for the polymerization as mentioned above, the obtained polymer particles having a high adhesion property or containing a large amount of fine particles have some disadvantages in the molding and processing steps as mentioned below. Polypropylene is usually processed into shaped products having various shapes suitable for each utilization purpose, wherein the starting polypropylene is molten by heating and then molded into the desired shape in a film molding machine, an injection molding machine, or the like. The starting polypropylene are usually used in the form of pellets which are prepared by admixing the polymer particles with conventional additives such as neutralizing agents, heat stabilizers, antioxidants, UV absorbers, light stabilizers, etc. and melting by heating in an extruder and then molding into pellets. This step of molding into pellets requires a large apparatus and also a large power and energy for heating and extruding. In order to eliminate such problems, it has also proposed to directly mold the polypropylene particles admixed with additives without preforming into pellets. However, the direct molding of the polymer particles has still some problems and has rarely practically been employed. One of the main problems is that the particles are not suitable for adapting to the molding machine, that is, the particles are insufficiently separated at the cyclone of the hopper loader provided in the molding machine and fly into atmosphere. Besides, when polymer particles having a high adhesion property are molded, the particles adhere onto and close various devices provided in the molding machine, such as pipes for transferring, hopper, cyclone, etc. by bridging. Thus, it has been desired to improve the properties of the polymer particles for the purpose of molding and processing thereof. Preferably the catalyst system comprises Furthermore in accordance with the present invention the catalyst system may comprise Additionally, in accordance with the present invention the catalyst system may comprise Furthermore, according to one aspect of the present invention there is provided an α olefin block copolymer particle which comprises a a first segment consisting essentially of propylene alone or a combination of propylene and not more than 6 by mole of ethylene and further optionally an α olefin having 4 to 6 carbon atoms b a second segment consisting essentially of ethylene alone or a combination of ethylene and not more than 90 by mole of propylene and further optionally an α olefin having 4 to 6 carbon atoms said second segment being in a ratio of 10 to 70 by weight based on whole weight of the copolymer and has a mean particle size of 150 to 3,000 µm, a geometric standard deviation σg of the particle size distribution of not more than 2, and an adhesion force of not more than 6 g cm². Preferably the first segment contains a component soluble in xylene at 20 Articles may be produced from the copolymer of this invention by subjecting the copolymer to further processing, for example molding. Fig. 1 shows a fluidized bed type reaction apparatus suitable for the process of this invention, and Fig. 2 shows other embodiment of a reaction apparatus suitable for the process of this invention. In Fig. 1 and 2, the symbols have the following meanings. 1 a body of a fluidized bed type reaction vessel, 2 a region of reduced flow speed, 3 an agitator, 4 a jacket, 5 a nozzle for feeding a solid catalyst, 6 a nozzle for feeding an aluminum compound and an electron donor, 7 a cyclone, 8 a nozzle for taking out flied particles into the cyclone, 9 a filter, 10 a compressor, 11 a heat exchanger, 12 a nozzle for feeding monomers and hydrogen, 13 a nozzle for taking out polymer particles, 14 a valve, 15 a valve, 16 a line for transferring polymer particles, 17 a nozzle for taking out polymer particles. Fig. 3 shows the distribution of particles of the solid catalyst components used in Examples and Reference Examples. Fig. 4 shows the distribution of the polymer particles produced in Examples and Reference Examples. Fig. 5 shows a correlation between the ratio of polymerization amount in the second step and the adhesion force of the produced polymer particles in Examples and Reference Examples. The process for the production of α olefin block copolymer particles of this invention comprises The α olefin block copolymer particles of the invention comprise a a first segment consisting essentially of propylene alone or a combination of propylene and not more than 6 by mole of ethylene and further optionally an α olefin having 4 to 6 carbon atoms b a second segment consisting essentially of ethylene alone or a combination of ethylene and not more than 90 by mole of propylene and further optionally an α olefin having 4 to 6 carbon atoms said second segment being contained in a ratio of 10 to 70 by weight based on whole weight of the copolymer and have a mean particle size of 150 to 3,000 µm, a geometric standard deviation σg of the particle distribution of not more than 2, and an adhesion force of not more than 6 g cm². The catalyst system used in this invention is illustrated in more detail below. The catalyst system itself forms a further aspect of the invention. The solid catalyst component used in this invention contains at least titanium, chlorine and an electron donating compound and has a pore volume of not less than 0.08 cc g provided by pores having a pore radius of 200 to 15,000 x 10 ¹⁰m Å , a mean particle size of 5 to 100 µm, and a geometric standard deviation σg of the particle distribution of not more than 2. According to the intensive study by the present inventors, it has been found that the adhesion force of the polymer particles has a close relation with the pore volume in a limited range of a pore radius of the solid catalyst component. It has already been proposed to make smaller the particle size of the primary particles in the solid catalyst component and thereby to increase the specific surface area thereof cf. U. S. Patent 4,210,738 . As a result of the present inventors experiments, it has been found that when the particle size of the primary particles is made smaller, the pore volume provided by pores having a pore radius of not more than 200 x 10 ¹⁰m Å is usually increased, but it does not agree to the adhesion force of the block copolymer. The solid catalyst component used in this invention has a pore volume provided by pores having a pore radius of 200 to 15,000 x 10 ¹⁰m Å hereinafter shown by a sign ΔVp of not less than 0.08 cc g, preferably not less than 0.1 cc g, more preferably not less than 0.15 cc g. It has also been found that the particle distribution of the polymer particles has a close relation with the particle distribution of the solid catalyst component. That is, the solid catalyst component used in the invention has a mean particle size of 5 to 100 µm, preferably 10 to 75 µm, more preferably 15 to 50 µm, and a geometric standard deviation σg of the particle distribution is not more than 2, preferably not more than 1.8. When the mean particle size is smaller than the above range, the polymer particles have larger adhesion force and induce such a problem as flying of catalyst and polymer particles within the fluidized bed type reaction vessel. On the other hand, when the mean particle size is larger than the above range, the minimum flow rate in the fluidized bed type reaction vessel increases significantly and thereby it becomes very difficult to obtain stable flowing state, which causes undesirable production of bulky polymer particles. Assuming that a logarithmic probability distribution equation is applicable to the particle distribution, the geometric standard deviation σg of the particle distribution can be calculated by the comparison of both factors in the following formula, wherein When the σg is larger than the above range, there is a problem of production of too fine polymer particles or of polymer particles having a larger particle size. By using the solid catalyst component having a specific mean particle size and a specific particle distribution of the invention, there can advantageously be obtained the desired polymer particles having excellent molding and processing characteristics with less fine particles. The process of this invention can produce α olefin block copolymer particles having a mean particle size of 150 to 3,000 µm, preferably 300 to 2,300 µm, more preferably 450 to 1,500 µm, and a geometric standard deviation σg of the particle distribution of not more than 2, preferably not more than 1.8. When the particle size of the polymer particles is less than the above range or when the polymer particles contain a large amount of fine particles, they have some problems as mentioned hereinbefore. It has also been found by the present inventors experiments that the adhesion force of the polymer particles should be not more than 6 g cm², preferably not more than 5 g cm², more preferably not more than 4 g cm², and thereby, various problems due to the adhesion of polymer particles as mentioned hereinbefore may be solved or mitigated. The solid catalyst components used in this invention can give the desired polymer particles having excellent impact resistance and small adhesion force. Each component of the solid catalyst component is specifically illustrated below. Titanium compound is used as a main component as it stands or in the form of being carried on an appropriate carrier. The titanium compound used in this invention may be a chlorinated titanium compound of the formula Ti OR¹ When the titanium compound is used in the form of being carried on a carrier, there are used various carriers, such as various solid polymers, particularly a polymer of an α olefin various solid inorganic compounds, particularly oxides e.g. SiO₂, Al₂O₃, etc. , hydroxides e.g. Mg OH Cl, etc. , and halides e.g. MgCl₂, etc. . Preferred carriers are magnesium compounds, e.g. magnesium halides, magnesium oxide, magnesium hydroxide, magnesium hydroxyhalides. Particularly preferred magnesium compound is a magnesium halide e.g. magnesium chloride, etc. . Preferred transition metal compound is a halide of titanium e.g. titanium tri or tetra chloride, phenoxytitanium trichloride, etc. . The catalyst component containing titanium, magnesium and chlorine components which are carried on a carrier as mentioned above is particularly preferable in this invention. The electron donating compounds contained in the catalyst component A are preferably ether compounds or ester compounds. Suitable examples of the ether compounds are dialkyl ethers having 1 to 10 carbon atoms in each alkyl moiety, such as diethyl ether, di n propyl ether, diisopropyl ether, di n butyl ether, di n amyl ether, diisoamyl ether, dineopentyl ether, di n hexyl ether, di n octyl ether, methyl n butyl ether, methyl isoamyl ether, ethyl isobutyl ether, etc. Among these, di n butyl ether and diisoamyl ether are particularly preferable. Suitable examples of the ester compounds are lower alkyl C₁ ₁₀ or phenyl esters of mono or polyvalent carboxylic acids, such as aliphatic carboxylic acids having 1 to 20 carbon atoms, olefin carboxylic acids having 1 to 20 carbon atoms, alicyclic carboxylic acids having 3 to 20 carbon atoms, and aromatic carboxylic acids having 6 to 20 carbon atoms, and are specifically methyl acetate, ethyl acetate, phenyl acetate, methyl propionate, ethyl propionate, ethyl butyrate, ethyl valerate, methyl acrylate, ethyl acrylate, methyl methacrylate, ethyl benzoate, butyl benzoate, methyl toluylate, ethyl toluylate, ethyl anisate, diethyl succinate, dibutyl succinate, diethyl malonate, dibutyl malonate, dimethyl maleinate, dibutyl maleinate, diethyl itaconate, dibutyl itaconate, monoethyl phthalate, dimethyl phthalate, methyl ethyl phthalate, diethyl phthalate, di n propyl phthalate, diisopropyl phthalate, di n butyl phthalate, diisobutyl phthalate, di n heptyl phthalate, di n octyl phthalate, diphenyl phthalate, and the like. The electron donating compound is preferably contained in the solid catalyst component in an amount of 1 to 20 by weight, more preferably 3 to 15 by weight, based on whole weight of the catalyst component A . The catalyst to be used in the invention should have a high streoregularity and a high polymerization activity in order to give well ballanced properties to the produced block copolymer and also in order to obtain the desired product without subjecting the polymer particles produced by the polymerization reaction to ash removal treatment. It has been found by the present inventors study that when the polymer is produced at a production yield of 6,000 g or more, preferably 8,000 g or more, per 1 g of the solid catalyst component A , the resulting polymer can be subjected to molding and processing without necessity of removal of the catalyst residue. When the production yield of the polymer is less than the above, the product after molding and processing becomes undesirably yellow color or shows inferior weatherability. Preferably the monomers are polymerized in liquefied propylene in the presence of hydrogen by using the solid catalyst component A together with an organic aluminum compound B and optionally an electron donor C at such a production yield that polypropylene is produced in an amount of 6,000 g or more per 1 g of the solid catalyst component A by reacting for 4 hours and further under the conditions that the polymer has a content of a component soluble in xylene at 20 C of not more than 5 by weight, preferably not more than 4 by weight. The method for preparing the desirable solid catalyst component A is disclosed, for example, in Japanese Patent Application No. 85597 1984 Japanese Patent First Publication No. 228504 1985 , Japanese Patent First Publication No. 30407 1981, and Japanese Patent Application No. 138471 1983 Japanese Patent First Publication No. 28405 1985 . In the above method, preferred titanium compound is a compound of the formula Ti OR¹ In the above method, it is preferable to use a chlorinated silicon compound as the chlorine containing compound and to use a phenol and an ester compound as the group of compounds III . In the above method, the reduction of titanium tetrachloride with the organic aluminum compound is preferably carried out within a short period of time. The organic aluminum compound of the formula R The catalyst system used in this invention comprises the solid catalyst component comprising a titanium compound and the organic aluminum compound. In order to improve more the polymerization activity and or stereo regularity, it is better to use an electron donor C . The electron donor may be , For example, esters, such as ethyl acetate, ε caprolactone, methyl methacrylate, ethyl benzoate, ethyl p anisilate, and methyl p toluylate acid anhydrides, such as anhydrous phthalic acid ether compounds, such as di n butyl ether, diphenyl ether, diglyme organic phosphorus compounds, such as tri n butyl phosphite, triphenyl phosphite, hexamethylene phosphoric triamide organic silicon compounds having Si O C bond, such as alkoxysilanes, aryloxysilanes and the like. Other compounds such as ketones, amines, amides and thioethers may also be used. Preferred electron donors are esters, phosphites and organic silicon compounds. In case of a solid catalyst component comprising titanium, magnesium and halogen which are carried on a carrier, aromatic monocarboxylic acid esters and organic silicon compounds are particularly preferable electron donor. In the catalyst system, the ratio of each components are as follows. The organic aluminum compound B is preferably contained in an amount of 0.1 to 1,500 mole per 1 mole of titanium in the solid catalyst component A . When the solid catalyst component is mainly composed of trivalent titanium compound, the organic aluminum compound is preferably contained in an amount of 1 to 30 mole per 1 mole of titanium in the solid catalyst component. In case of a solid catalyst component which is carried on a carrier such as a magnesium compound and silica gel, the organic aluminum compound is preferably contained in an amount of 40 to 1,500 mole per 1 mole of titanium in the solid catalyst component. The electron donor is preferably contained in an amount of not more than 1 mole per 1 mole of the organic aluminum compound. The organic aluminum compound and or electron donor may also be added in the second step of the polymerization reaction. The polymerization reaction is illustrated in more detail below. According to this invention, the propylene ethylene block copolymer is produced by two step polymerization reaction using the above mentioned catalyst system. In this case, in order to produce the desired polymer particles having smaller adhesion force and excellent physical properties, it is necessary to use a catalyst system having high stereoregularity. When the polymerization reaction is carried out by using a catalyst system having low stereoregularity, the produced polymer particles have significantly increased adhesion force and show also less toughness and less heat resistance. It has been found that it is preferable to polymerize so that when the monomers are reacted in liquefied propylene at 65 C for 4 hours, the polymer contains a component soluble in xylene at 20 C in an amount of not more than 5 by weight, more preferably not more than 4 by weight in order to obtain the desired polymer having excellent physical properties and preferable state of the polymer particles. When the monomers are polymerized in the first step by using a high capacity catalyst system, the amount of non crystalline polymer varies depending on the amount of comonomer. It is preferable to control the production of a component soluble in xylene at 20 C to the range of not more than 15 by weight, more preferably not more than 5 by weight. The solid catalyst component may previously be subjected to polymerization of at least one α olefin having 2 to 6 carbon atoms, preferably either ethylene or propylene, in an amount of not more than 1,000 g, preferably not more than 100 g, per 1 g of the solid catalyst component in the presence of an organic aluminum compound and or an electron donor. The resulting composition is used as a solid catalyst component. The first step of the polymerization of this invention can be carried out in liquefied propylene and or in gaseous phase in the presence of a catalyst system. That is, the polymerization can be carried out by reacting the monomers in liquefied propylene, or by reacting monomers firstly in liquefied propylene and then in a gaseous phase, or by reacting the monomers in a gaseous phase, but the polymerization in a gaseous phase is preferable because the flash distillation of liquefied propylene can be omitted and hence there can be avoided undesirable adhesion of soluble polymer onto the wall of the reaction vessel during the flashing of liquefied propylene. The feature of polymerization in the first step is specifically mentioned below. The polymerization may be done by homopolymerization of propylene, or by copolymerization of propylene and a comonomer such as ethylene or an α olefin having 4 to 6 carbon atoms. It is preferable to regulate the amount of the comonomer so that the polymer produced in this first step has a comonomer content of not more than 6 by mole, more preferably not more than 4 by mole. When the comonomer content is over 6 by mole or in more preferable feature, over 4 by mole , The block copolymer shows disadvantageously inferior flexural modulus and inferior heat resistance. The polymerization in liquefied propylene is preferably carried out at a temperature of 40 to 90 C under a pressure of 17 to 50 kg cm². The polymerization in a gaseous phase is preferably carried out at a temperature of lower than the melting point of the polymer, more preferably at 40 to 100 C, under a pressure of from atmospheric pressure to 40 kg cm² under the conditions that the monomers are not liquified within the reaction vessel. In this first step, it is further preferable to add a molecular weight regulating agent e.g. hydrogen, etc. to the reaction system in order to improve the melt flow properties of the final product. The polymerization in the second step is carried out consequently after the polymerization in the first step. The polymerization is carried out by homopolymerizing ethylene in a gaseous phase, or by copolymerizing ethylene with propylene and or an α olefin having 4 to 6 catbon atoms so that the produced polymer has an ethylene content of not less than 10 by mole. This second step may also be carried out in a liquefied monomer comprising mainly propylene or in an inert hydrocarbon e.g. hexane, heptane, etc. . However, when it is done in a liquefied monomer, too high polymerization pressure is required for increasing the ethylene content in the polymer produced in said step because the propylene partial pressure is high in the system, which is disadvantageous in that a high capacity apparatus is needed and further that low crystalline polymer soluble in the liquefied monomers is increased in the range of ethylene content of 20 to 80 by mole and hence the polymer is precipitated in the step of flashing of the liquefied monomers to induce fouling within the flashing vessel. It is also undesirable to do the polymerization in an inert hydrocarbon, because the soluble low crystalline polymer is also increased. The polymer produced in this second step has preferably an ethylene content of 20 to 80 by mole in view of well ballanced toughness and impact resistance of the block copolymer. The second step may be carried out in two or more stages by varying the concentration of ethylene. The polymerization in the second step is preferably carried out at a temperature of not higher than the melting point of the polymer, preferably 40 to 100 C, under a pressure of from atmospheric pressure to 40 kg cm² so that the monomers are not liquefied within the polymerization vessel. In order to regulate the melt flow properties of the final product, it is preferable to add a molecular weight regulating agent e.g. hydrogen, etc. to the reaction system in this second step. In this second step, the polymerization is carried out in the degree of 10 to 70 by weight based on the whole polymerization amount, but it is preferable in the degree of 20 to 60 by weight, more preferably 25 to 50 by weight, because the resulting polymer has advantageously well ballanced adhesion force of polymer particles and impact resistance. When the polymerization amount in the second step is less than 10 by weight in preferred feature less than 20 by weight, in more preferred feature less than 25 by weight , the resulting polymer shows disadvantageously inferior impact resistance. On the other hand, when the polymerization amount in the second step is more than 70 by weight in preferred feature more than 60 by weight, and in more preferred feature more than 50 by weight , the resulting polymer particles show disadvantageously increased adhesion force. The α olefins having 4 to 6 carbon atoms used in this invention include, for instance, butene 1, pentene 1, hexene 1, 4 methylpentene 1, 3 methylbutene 1, and the like. This invention can provide a propylene ethylene block copolymer particles comprising substantially two segments and having smaller adhesion force and narrower particle distribution, wherein the first segment is formed in the first polymerization step and the second segment is formed in the second polymerization step. The adhesion force of the polymer particles is also affected by the molecular weight of the polymer produced in the second step, and when the molecular weight of the polymer produced in the second step is larger, the adhesion force of the resulting polymer particles is lowered and improved. However, when the molecular weight of the polymer produced in the second step is made larger, the block copolymer shows, to the contrary, inferior melt flow properties and also significantly inferior molding and processing characteristics. In order to achieve the desired stable molding and processing of the polymer, the melt index should be in the range of not less than 0.3 g 10 minutes, preferably not less than 0.5 g 10 minutes, more preferably not less than 1.0 g 10 minutes. Such a melt index is obtained by regulating the intrinsic viscosity of the polymer produced in the second step to the range of not more than 7 g dl, preferably not more than 6 g dl, more preferably not more than 5 g dl. According to this invention, even though a molecular regulating agent e.g. hydrogen, etc. is added in the second step in order to regulate the molecular weight of the produced polymer and thereby to improve the molding and processing characteristics of the product, the polymer particles show extremely improved adhesion force. That is, there are obtained polymer particles having an adhesion force of not more than 6.0 g cm², preferably not more than 5.0 g cm², more preferably not more than 4.0 g cm². The reaction vessel for the gas phase polymerization in this invention is not specified, but includes any known vessels, such as an agitating type reaction vessel, a fluidized bed type reaction vessel, an agitating fluidized bed type reaction vessel, and the like. However, for the purpose of homogeneously mixing the reaction mixture in whole of the polymerization region and of easily removing the polymerization heat, it is preferable to employ such a system that a part or whole of the gases to be polymerized in the system is taken out from the reaction vessel, cooled and recycled to the reaction vessel. Particularly, a system of polymerizing in a fluidized bed, that is, a fluidized bed type reaction vessel and an agitating fluidized bed type reaction vessel are preferable. The polymerization reaction of this invention may be continuously carried out by using two or more reaction vessels which are combined in series, or may be carried out in batch system by using one or more reaction vessels, or may be carried out in combination of these systems. This invention is illustrated by the following examples but should not be construed to be limited thereto. The results in Examples and Reference Examples are shown in Tables 1 to 4 and Fig. 1 to 5. In the tables, the properties are measured by the following methods. The η wherein A 200 liter reactor was purged with nitrogen and thereto were added hexane 26 liter and tetrabutoxytitanium 28.6 kg . The mixture was agitated at an agitation speed of 120 r.p.m. at an inner temperature of 35 C. A 40 by weight solution of ethylaluminum sesquichloride in hexane 53 kg was added dropwise to the mixture over a period of 3 hours while keeping the temperature of the system at 35 C. After the addition, the mixture was agitated at 35 C For 30 minutes and then heated at 60 C for one hour. The reaction mixture was filtered and washed with hexane 100 liter three times to obtain a solid product. To the above reaction product was added hexane 120 liter so as to make the solid product slurry and thereto was added triethylaluminum 1.5 kg . The mixture was heated to 50 C while agitating at an agitation speed of 100 r.p.m. Ethylene monomer 3.5 kg was added gradually over a period of one hour at 50 C, and subjected to a pre polymerization. After the pre polymerization, the reaction mixture was filtered to obtain an ethylene pre polymerized solid product. The ethylene pre polymerized solid product was made slurry with heptane 120 liter , and to the mixture was added diisoamyl ether 16 liter while keeping the temperature of the system at 30 C. After reacting at 30 C for one hour, the mixture was heated to 75 C and thereto was added titanium tetrachloride 15 liter , and the mixture was further reacted at 75 C for one hour. After the reaction, the reaction mixture was filtered, and the residue was washed with heptane 100 liter three times. After the washing, the product was again treated with isoamyl ether and titanium tetrachloride in the same manner as described above. After the reaction, the reaction product was washed with hexane 100 liter six times and dried to give a solid catalyst component 1 15.2 g , which contained trivalent titanium atom 22.1 by weight, isoamyl ether 6.9 by weight, chlorine 47.7 by weight, and butoxy group 0.4 by weight. The particle distribution of the product is shown in the accompanying Fig. 3. The solid catalyst component had a mean particle size The solid catalyst component 1 was evaluated as to the stereoregularity and polymerization activity by subjecting it to a polymerization of propylene in a one liter reaction vessel as follows. The reactor was purged with argone and thereto were added the solid catalyst component 1 17.0 mg and diethylaluminum chloride 1.5 g , and to the mixture was added hydrogen until a hydrogen partial pressure became 0.6 kg cm² and was further added propylene 280 g . The mixture was heated to 65 C to initiate the polymerization. After polymerization For 4 hours, the unreacted monomer was purged off to give white powdery polypropylene 120 g . The polypropylene was obtained in an amount of 7,060 g per 1 g of the solid catalyst component 1 . Besides, the component soluble in xylene at 20 C was measured. As a result, it was 2.2 by weight, which means that it is excellent in the stereoregularity and in the polymerization activity. A reactor having an inner value of 300 liter and an agitator was well purged with nitrogen and thereto were added the solid catalyst component 1 2.15 kg as prepared in the above 1 , butane 100 liter and diethylaluminum chloride 938 g , and agitation of the mixture was started. Thereto was added propylene under a pressure of 5 kg cm² at 40 C. After polymerization For 2.45 hours, the supplement of propylene was stopped. The reaction mixture was filtered with a filter provided at the bottom of the reactor. To the reaction mixture was added butane 100 liter , and the mixture was agitated. The reaction mixture was filtered to give a pre polymerization catalyst. The pre polymerization catalyst was transferred to a jacketed drum provided with a nozzle for supplying nitrogen at the bottom, and then dried by supplying a small amount of nitrogen by means of flowing a hot water of 50 C into the jacket to obtain a pre polymerization catalyst 26.9 kg . Block copolymerization of propylene ethylene was carried out by two step reaction using an agitating fluidized bed type reaction vessel inner volume 1 m³ as shown in the accompanying Fig. 1, said polymerization was repeated five times. The reactor was firstly purged with dewetted nitrogen and thereto was circulated gases at a rate of 100 m³ hour with a gas circulator 10 provided on the circulation line. The gases were circulated in such an amount that the polymer particles were kept in flow state through whole step of the polymerization, and the circulation amount of gases was kept at a constant until the polymer particles were taken out from the reactor after completion of the polymerization. To the reactor was added polypropylene particles propylene homopolymer of η 1.7 dl g, mean particle size 600 µm 60 kg in order to disperse the catalyst, and the content within the reactor was replaced by propylene. Thereafter, propylene and hydrogen were added to raise the inner pressure till 5 kg cm² gauge pressure G and to become hydrogen concentration of 6.3 by mole. A promotor component mentioned below was supplied from a nozzle 6 under pressure with hydrogen. Besides, diethylaluminum chloride 160 g and then the pre polymerization catalyst obtained in 2 66.3 g were supplied from a nozzle 5 . In the first step of the polymerization, the temperature within the reactor was raised to 65 C and the reactor was kept under a pressure of 5 kg cm²G for one hour, and the pressure was raised to 19.7 kg cm²G and the polymerization was continued. During the first step, hydrogen was continuously supplied in order to keep the hydrogen concentration of 6.3 by mole. When the polymerization amount became 32 kg, the unreacted monomer was purged until the inner pressure lowered to 11 kg cm²G. In the second step of the polymerization, while keeping the inner temperature at 65 C, ethylene and propylene were supplied so that the ethylene concentration became 16 by mole and the pressure became 15 kg cm²G. After the pressurization, ethylene, propylene and hydrogen were supplied so that the concentrations of ethylene and hydrogen were kept at 16 by mole and 6 by mole, respectively and also the pressure was kept at 15 kg cm²G. When the polymerization amount became 18 kg, the content was purged until the inner pressure lowered to 5 kg cm²G. The polymer particles thus produced were taken out from the reactor so that the polymer particles were retained in an amount of 60 kg. Then, the first polymerization was completed. The second polymerization was carried out by replacing ethylene by propylene until ethylene concentration became not more than 0.1 by mole, supplying propylene and hydrogen so that the pressure became 5 kg cm²G and the hydrogen concentration became 6.3 by mole, and then supplying the same catalyst component as used in the first polymeriation except that diethylaluminum chloride was used in an amount of 73 g. The second polymerization was carried out under the same conditions as in the first polymerization except that the retained polymer particles obtained in the first polymerization were used for the dispersion of catalyst. The polymerization as above was repeated five times, and whole of the resulting polymer particles were taken out from the reactor. The polymer particles thus taken out were transferred to a 200 liter agitating vessel, and thereto were added propylene oxide 100 g and methyl alcohol 60 g , and the mixture was heated at 80 C for 2 hours. The reaction mixture was dried at 80 C while ventilating nitrogen to give while powdery polymer. By the above polymerization, there was obtained the polymer in an amount 9,400 g per 1 g of the solid catalyst component 1 . The results of the polymerization are shown in Table 1 and Fig. 5. Even though the polymerization in the second step was carried out in a polymerization amount of 36 by weight based on the whole polymerization amount, the polymer particles showed merely an adhesion force of 2.5 g cm² which is very excellent. The taking out of the polymer particles from a taking out nozzle 13 provided in the reactor could be carried out without any problem. When the amount of the polymer particles collected at a cyclone 7 was measured in order to evaluate the fly of polymer particles from the reactor, it was merely 450 g, which did not give any problem for operation. After the polymerization procedure, the reactor was checked. As a result, adhesion of the polymer onto the inner wall and agitator was merely in such a very few amount that the metallic surface was well seen, which did not have any problem. The polymer particles obtained above were mixed with calcium stearate 0.1 by weight , 2,6 di tert. butyl p cresol 0.2 by weight , and tetrakis methylene 3 3,5 di tert. butyl 4 hydroxyphenyl propionate methane 0.1 by weight , and the mixture was extruded in the form of strands by an extruder provided with a screw diameter 40 mm and then pelletized. In this case, the polymer particles could be extruded from the hopper of the extruder without any problem of bridging and surging, etc. The properties of the pellets thus prepared were measured. The results are shown in Table 2. As is clear from Table 2, the product showed very excellent impact strength even at a low temperature. The formed product did not show any problem such as coloring. The component soluble in xylene at 20 C of the polymer obtained in the first step of this example was measured by the same polymerization in the first step using the same catalyst component as used in the example. As a result, it was 2.9 by weight. The block copolymerization of propylene ethylene was carried out by two step reaction using a 5 liter autoclave provided with an agitator. The autoclave was dried for one hour under reduced pressure with a vacuum pump and thereto were added diethylaluminum chloride diluted with a small amount of heptane hereinafter, referred to as DEAC and a solid catalyst containing titanium trichloride. The pressure of this vessel was raised with hydrogen H₂ and thereto was supplied liquefied propylene, and the first step polymerization was initiated after regulating the temperature at 60 C. After polymerization for one hour, unreacted monomer was purged off, and then a small amount of polymer was taked out as a sample for measuring η The polymerization conditions and results are shown in Table 3 and Table 4 and Fig. 3, 4 and 5, respectively. In Examples 2 to 4, the block copolymerization of propylene and ethylene was carried out by varying the polymerization amount in the second step using the solid catalyst component 1 . With increase of the polymerization amount in the second step, the polymer particles showed somewhat increased adhesion force, but the adhesion force was still in good level. As shown in Example 4, even when the ratio of the polymerization amount in the second step was 41 by weight, the adhesion force of the polymer particles was still in 3.1, which was no problem. In Reference Examples 1 to 3, the block copolymerization of propylene and ethylene was carried out by using a solid catalyst component which had narrower ΔV In Reference Example 4, the block copolymerization of propylene and ethylene was carried out by using a solid catalyst which had the same range of ΔV As is clear from the above result, the particle size has a close relation with the adhesion force of the polymer particles, and with decrease of the particle size, the adhesion force increases significantly. Thus, in order to improve the adhesion force of the polymer particles, it is necessary to decrease the amount of fine particles. In Reference Example 5, the polymerization was carried out by modifying the conditions so that the amount of hydrogen supplied in the second step was lowered in order to increase the molecular weight of the produced polymer. The polymer produced in the second step showed η of 8.2 dl g. When compared with Reference Example 4 wherein the molecular weight of the polymer was decreased while using the same catalyst system, the polymer particles showed improved adhesion force. On the contrary, the product showed a lower melt index which is an index factor for showing the molding and processing characteristics. Thus, the product in this Reference Example 5 had significantly inferior molding and processing characteristics. The solid catalyst components as used in Examples and Reference Examples were prepared as follows. When the the distribution of particles was measured, the solid catalyst component showed When the polymerization capacity thereof was measured under the same conditions as in Example 1, polypropylene was produced in an amount of 8,910 g per 1 g of the solid catalyst component and the polymer contained CXS of 2.4 by weight. This example was carried out by using a solid catalyst carried on a carrier. A 200 liter reactor was purged with nitrogen and thereto were added metal magnesium 3.5 g , di n butyl ether 44 liter and a small amount of Grignard reagent. While the mixture was agitating at an agitation speed of 75 r.p.m. with keeping the inner temperature at 50 C, n butyl chloride 15 liter was added dropwise over a period of 5 hours. After the addition, the mixture was further reacted at 50 C for 2 hours, and thereafter, the reaction mixture was cooled to room temperature, and the solid product was taken by filtration. The n butylmagnesium chloride in di n butyl ether was hydrolyzed with 1N sulfuric acid and back titrated with 1N NaOH to determine the concentration thereof indicator phenolphthalein . As a result, the concentration thereof was 2.26 mole liter. Subsequently, silicon tetrachloride 12.8 liter was added dropwise to a solution of n butylmagnesium chloride in di n butyl ether over a period of 6 hours, while agitating at an agitation speed of 75 r.p.m. and keeping the inner temperature at 20 C. After the addition, the mixture was further agitated at 20 C for one hour, and the reaction mixture was filtered and washed with hexane 100 liter four times to obtain a carrier. The carrier prepared in the above B was made slurry with hexane 70 liter , and then the inner temperature was kept at 60 C. To the mixture were added a solution of phenol 4.2 kg in hexane 100 liter and ethyl benzoate 6.4 liter , and the mixture was reacted at 60 C for 30 minutes. The reaction mixture was filtered and washed with hexane 150 liter three times at 60 C. To the above product was added monochlorobenzene 80 liter to make it slurry, and thereto was added a solution of a compound of the formula 122.4 g in monochlorobenzene 48 liter , and the mixture was reacted at 100 C for 30 minutes. After the reaction, the reaction mixture was filtered at 100 C and washed at 100 C with toluene 150 liter one time and with hexane 100 liter three times, and dried to give the solid catalyst component 4 15.1 kg . The solid catalyst component 4 contained titanium atom 2.5 by weight, magnesium atom 20.9 by weight, chlorine 65.6 by weight, phenol 1.7 by weight, and ethyl benzoate 9.1 by weight. When the distribution of the particles was measure, it showed