# SEMICONDUCTOR INTEGRATED CIRCUIT IC INCLUDING CIRCUIT ELEMENTS FOR EVALUATING THE IC AND MEANS FOR TESTING THE CIRCUIT ELEMENTS

## Claims
Integrierte Halbleiterschaltung mit wenigstens einer Schaltungskonfiguration 6, 8, 9, 71, 72 104 106 118, 119 einer Vielzahl von Bondingpads 31 39 , die wirkungsmäßig mit der wenigstens einen Schaltungskonfiguration 6, 8, 9, 71, 72 104 106 118, 119 verbindbar sind und

## Description
This invention relates to a semiconductor integrated circuit IC and, more particularly, to a semiconductor IC including circuit elements for evaluating the characteristics of the IC and means far testing the evaluating circuit elements. Semiconductor ICs are tested at several stages, such as after completion of the processes for forming the ICs in a semiconductor wafer, after cutting the IC chips away from the wafer, and after packaging the IC devices. In the test after completion of the processes for forming the ICs in the wafer, in order to determine whether or not the wafer, or the ICs in the wafer, are usable, the characteristics of basic and typical circuit elements in the wafer, such as resistors and transistors, are tested and evaluated. Typical basic circuits, such as flip flops and AND gates, may also be tested and evaluated. Normal circuits formed in each IC chip may be tested, through bonding pads provided in the chip, using a test facility IC tester . However, the basic circuit elements cannot be directly tested because they have been already mutually connected in the wafer to form desired ICs and, accordingly, almost none of the terminals thereof appear on the surface of the wafer, and other terminals appearing on the surface are too small to allow direct contact with a test probe thereon. Then, additional basic circuit elements, i.e. so called monitor elements, for testing and evaluating the characteristics of the wafer, or the ICs in the wafer, are formed in a spare portion s of the wafer, in each IC chip, or as a special IC chip. The additional basic circuit elements are formed by the same processes used for the formation of the normal circuits, and accordingly, are regarded as circuit elements having the same characteristics as circuit elements in the normal circuits. Hence, the characteristics of the circuit elements in the normal circuits may be evaluated by testing and evaluating the additional circuit elements. When the additional circuit elements are formed in a spare portion of the wafer, although this may be beneficial for integration, evaluation cannot be made of the validity of each IC chip, and a test of the characteristic cannot be carried out, after the IC chips are cut away from the wafer or after packaging. When the additional circuit elements are formed in each IC chip, it contributes to an improvement of the yield of the IC chips, because the evaluation and determination of the use may be effected for each IC chip. The above problem of placing the test probe in contact with the terminals still remains, unless the additional circuit elements are formed. When the additional circuit elements are formed in a spare portion in the wafer or as a special IC chip, bonding pads may also be formed around the additional circuit elements in a same way as for forming normal bonding pads, and thus these methods will easily solve the above problem. However, the former method involves the problems of a limitation of the validity of each IC chip and a limitation of the test after cutting the IC chips, as set forth above. The latter method also involves a problem of low availability of the IC chips in the wafer, in addition to the above problems. When the additional circuit elements are formed in each IC chip, the problem in question may be greatly increased, because the size of the bonding pad necessitates the use of a considerably large area, for example approximately several tens of micrometres µm x several tens of micrometres, up to approximately 100 µm x 100 µm, to enable contact to be made by the test probe. Therefore, apparently, additional bonding pads each having the same size as the normal bonding pad cannot be provided in practice, due to the restriction on the integration of the IC chip. The testing of the additional circuit elements may be realised by using spare normal bonding pads which are not used for the normal circuits. However, in general, there are not enough spare normal bonding pads to allow testing of all of the additional circuit elements. Even if special bonding pads each having a considerably smaller area than that of the normal bonding pad are provided in each IC chip, a special test facility including a specially shaped test probe may be required. Moreover, the limitation on the tests after packaging the IC, etc,. will still remain. US specification US A 4336495, describes a semiconductor integrated circuit comprising at least one circuit configuration a plurality of bonding pads operatively connectable to the at least one circuit configuration and, connection means for selectively making connection between the at least one circuit configuration and the bonding pads in response to a control signal. This specification enables a connection to be made to facilitate the testing of whole blocks of the complex circuit arrangement but does not allow testing of basic circuits elements or circuits. According to the present invention such a semiconductor integrated circuit is characterized in that the plurality of bonding pads are also operatively connectable to at least one evaluating circuit element and in that the connection means include switching means provided between the bonding pads and the evaluating circuit element or elements for switching the connection between the bonding pads and the evaluating circuit element or elements in response to the control signal. Embodiments of the invention will now be described, by way of example, with reference to the accompanying drawings, in which Referring to Fig. 1, a metal oxide semiconductor MOS type integrated circuit IC chip in a semiconductor wafer includes normal circuits 6, 8 and 9, n channel MOS N MOS output drivers 71 and 72, and bonding pads 31, 32, and 33. These circuit components are used for normal purposes. A part of the normal circuit 6 is illustrated in Fig. 1 and includes a first MOS inverter 61 consisting of depletion type MOS transistor hereinafter called D transistor Q₆ functioning as a resistor and an enhancement type MOS transistor hereinafter called E transistor Q₅ , a second MOS inverter 62 of a D transistor Q₈ and an E transistor Q₇ , and a third MOS inverter 63 of a D transistor Q₁₀ and an E transistor Q₉. A node N62 of the second inverter 62 is connected to a gate of a transistor Q₂₁. A node N63 of the third inverter 63 is connected to a gate of a transistor Q₂₂. The series connected transistors Q₂₁ and Q₂₂ form the N MOS output driver 71. In Fig. 1, the MOS IC chip further includes a resistor 10 as one circuit element for evaluating the characteristics of the ICs in the MOS IC chip, and means for testing the resistor 10. The test means includes a control circuit 2, transfer gate MOS transistors 41 and 42, MOS transistors Q₁₁ and Q₁₂ , and the bonding pads 31 to 33. The control circuit 2 includes a first MOS inverter 21 consisting of a D transistor Q₂ and an E transistor Q₁ , and a second MOS inverter 22 consisting of a D transistor Q₄ and an E transistor Q₃. The normal circuit 9 connected to the bonding pad 31 may have a MOS input driver which may have a high input impedance, as will be described later. The input driver in the normal circuit 9 may operate in response to a voltage between V The operation of the MOS IC chip in Fig. 1 will be described. In a normal operation mode, the voltage between V In a test mode, a test request signal having a voltage higher than the threshold voltage V In the above embodiment, no additional bonding pads are provided and the normal bonding pads 31 to 33 are commonly used for the normal operation mode and the test mode. This solves the problem of low integration due to the provision of additional bonding pads for the test means. Due to provision of the output driver high impedance making transistors Q₁₁ and Q₁₂ and the transfer gate transistors 41 and 42, the bonding pads 32 and 33 may be used selectively or exclusively for the normal operation mode and the test mode, without any adverse effects from the opposite mode. The test may be easily effected by handling the test probe on the bonding pads in a conventional manner. The test for the resistor 10 as one of the evaluating circuit elements may be achieved not only in the test steps from after formation of the bonding pads in each IC chip and before cutting the IC chips away from the wafer to before packaging the IC chips, by using the bonding pads, but also in the steps after packaging by using contact pins provided outside of the IC package and connected to the bonding pads in the IC package. In the above embodiment, the transfer gate transistors may be provided in response to the number of evaluating circuit elements and up to the number of bonding pads. The high impedance making transistors may be also provided in response to the number of the evaluating circuit elements and up to the number of output drivers. Referring to Fig. 2, another MOS IC chip including another evaluating circuit element and another test means is represented. In Fig. 2, the evaluating circuit element is a MOS transistor 11. The test means includes the control circuit 2 similar to that in Fig. 1, transfer gate transistors 44 to 46, and the bonding pad 31 as set forth above, and bonding pads 34 to 36. Inverters 104 to 106 consisting of a D transistor Q₃₂ functioning as a resistor and an E transistor Q₃₁ , a D transistor Q₃₄ and an E transistor Q₃₃ , and a D transistor Q₃₆ and an E transistor Q₃₅ , respectively, function as input drivers of normal circuits. In this embodiment, the input drivers 104 to 106 have a sufficient high impedance to the bonding pads 34 to 36, and accordingly, input driver high impedance making transistors corresponding to the output driver high impedance making transistors Q₁₁ and Q₁₂ in Fig. 1 are not provided. This can be applied to the input driver in the circuit 9 in Figs. 1 and 2 connected to the bonding pad 31. In a normal operation mode, when the voltage between V In a test mode, when the test request signal having the voltage higher than the threshold voltage V In the above embodiments of Figs. 1 and 2, a variety of evaluating circuit elements, such as a capacitor and other type of transistors, as well as a variety of evaluating fundamental circuits, such as flip flops and AND gates, may be formed in each IC chip. The test means may be applicable for testing the above evaluating circuit elements and or the evaluating fundamental circuits. In the specification, the evaluating circuit element involves the evaluation of the fundamental circuit or the like. In addition, in the above embodiments of Figs. 1 and 2, the control circuit 2 is commonly connected to the bonding pad 31 with the circuit 9. In order to be free from the application of the normal voltage to the bonding pad 31, the control circuit 2 includes the transistor Q₁ having a higher threshold voltage V Moreover, the control signal S2 may be directly supplied through a bonding pad 30 as shown by dotted lines in Figs. 1 and 2. The control circuit 2 thus may be omitted. Furthermore, the embodiments of Figs. 1 and 2 may be combined. Figure 3 represents a general block diagram of the combined MOS IC of Figs. 1 and 2. In Fig. 3, the MOS IC includes a normal circuit portion containing the normal circuits 6, 8 and 9 in Figs. 1 and 2, an output driver circuit 7 having the output drivers 71 and 72 in Fig. 1, an input driver circuit 100 having the input drivers 104 to 106 in Fig. 2, and bonding pads 11 and 12 . The MOS IC also includes testing circuit element portions 10A and 10B containing the evaluating resistor 10 in Fig. 1 and the evaluating transistor 11 in Fig. 2. In addition, the MOS IC includes a test means consisting of the control circuit 2 as shown in Fig. 1, transfer gate transistor portions 4A and 4B containing the transistors 41 and 42 in Fig. 1, and the transistors 44 to 46. The bonding pad 31 may be commonly used for the normal circuit portion and the test means. An output bonding pad portion 3A containing the bonding pads 32 and 33 in Fig. 1 and the input bonding pad portion 3B containing the bonding pads 34 to 36 may be also commonly used for the normal circuit portion and the test means. The bonding pads 11 and 12 are used for supplying the power of V In this embodiment, the evaluating circuit elements and the normal circuit may be tested not only between after formation of the bonding pads in the IC chips and before packaging of the IC chips, by using the bonding pads, but also after packaging the IC chips, by using pins of the IC device. The selection of either the test or normal operation mode is simply achieved by applying or not applying a predetermined voltage to the bonding pad 31. The test of the evaluating circuit elements may be effected in a similar way to that of the normal circuit, and thus the evaluating circuit elements also may be automatically tested by using an automatic test facility in a same way as for an automatic test for the normal circuits well known in the art. Note that the area occupying the test means of the control circuit 2, the transfer gate circuits 4A and 4B, and connection lines therebetween is relatively small. In addition, the control circuit 2 may be omitted as described above. Hence, reduction in integration due to the provision of the test means may be minimized. In the above embodiments, the MOS IC chip was described. Generally, the input drivers in the MOS IC have a high impedance, and accordingly, the input driver high impedance making circuits are not required. If the input drivers have insufficient high impedance, high impedance making circuits should be provided even to the input drivers. Figure 4 represents an embodiment of this case. In Fig. 4, a bipolar IC chip includes an emitter follower input driver 118 consisting of a series connected resistor R₁₁ and transistor T₁₁ , and an emitter follower input driver 119 also consisting of a series connected resistor R₁₂ and transistor T₁₂. The bipolar IC chip also includes a test circuit element 12, such as a resistor, and a test means. The test means includes a control circuit 2 , an inverter 25, switching circuits 48 and 49, and AND gates 58 and 59. The control circuit 2 has a same function as that described above, but is formed by a bipolar technology. The switching circuits 48 and 49 may include bipolar transistors for transfer gates. Bonding pads 37 to 39 are similar to those in the above embodiments. In a normal operation mode, a test request voltage is not applied to the bonding pad 37. The control circuit 2 outputs a control signal S2 having a low level. The switching circuits 48 are deenergized, breaking the connection between the test circuit element 12 and the bonding pads 38 and 39. The control signal S2 is converted to high level by the inverter 25, and a resultant signal S25 energizes terminals of the AND gates 58 and 59. If high level signals are supplied to the bonding pads 38 and 39, the input drivers 118 and 119 are operated. In a test mode, the test request voltage is supplied to the bonding pad 37. The control circuit 2 outputs the control signal S2 having a high level. The AND gates 58 and 59 are brought to an inhibit state by applying the signal S25 having a low level. The switching circuits 48 and 49 are energized, connecting between the test circuit element 12 and the bonding pads 38 and 39. The characteristics of the test circuit element 12 may be obtained by placing the test probes in contact with the bonding pads. A variety of the modifications discussed above can be applied to the embodiment in Fig. 4.