# Oligomer resins and processes for their preparation.

## Abstract
A process for preparing oligomer resins from compounds containing carbon carbon unsaturated double bonds with the aid of a perfluoroalkane class ion exchange material serving as a catalyst. The process is characterized by allowing compounds containing carbon carbon unsaturated double bonds, a styrene class compound such as styrene and α methylstyrene, and a vinyl compound such as α olefin, indene, coumarone, acenaphthylene or the like to polymerize, with the aid of a perfluoroalkane class ion exchange material serving as a catalyst, preferably from the viewpoint of corrosion, thermal and solvent resistance and the like an ion exchange membrane of which the matrix comprises fluorine containing resins, and SO₃H as functional group.

## Claims
1. A process for preparing oligomer resins from compounds containing carbon carbon unsaturated double bonds with the aid of a perfluoroalkane class ion exchange material serving as a catalyst.

## Description
The present invention relates to oligomer resins and processes for their preparation, and particularly to styrene oligomers, petroleum resins and coumarone indene resins, and their preparation by way of cation polymerizing vinyl compounds with the aid of an ion exchange material serving as a catalyst. Furthermore, the invention relates to a process for preparing a high boiling point hydrocarbon oil containing diarylethanes and oligomers of styrenes by allowing alkylbenzene class compounds to react with styrene class compounds with the aid of an ion exchange material serving as a catalyst. Petroleum resins and coumarone indene resins which find common use as rubber softeners, adhesive additives, solvents for paint and ink, traffic paints and the like, are prepared from naphtha derived from cat cracked petroleum and solvent naphtha derived from coal tar, with the aid of a homogenous acid catalyst such as sulfuric acid, boron trifluoride, anhydrous aluminum chloride or the like without special separation and purification. With respect to the prior art, catalysts utilized in preparing these resins include sulfuric acid Japanese Patent Publication Tokko Showa 45 30340 , phosphoric acid and mixtures thereof Japanese Patent Publication Tokko Showa 47 47311 , acting as Brønsted acids, and boron trifluoride Japanese Patent Publication Tokko Showa 32 790 and anhydrous aluminum chloride only the case of petroleum resin acting as Lewis acids. In additional, boron trifluoride ethylether complexs and the like have been used. With respect to processes for preparing styrene class oligomers, many studies have been done on dimerization of α methylstyrene and processes using mineral acids, Lewis acids or solid acid catalysts are known. A process for preparing α olefin class more than trimers and heavier is disclosed in Japanese Provisional Publication Tokkai Showa 48 17588, and a process for preparing oligomers of relatively high molecular weight by means of thermal polymerization is revealed in Japanese Provisional Publication Tokkai 48 12887. However, there are no known processes by which oligomers in the dimer to tetramer range can selectively and with high yield be produced. Japanese Provisional Publication Tokkai Showa 55 104219 reveals that styrene oligomers consisting mainly of trimers and tetramers may be prepared with the aid of ion exchange resins in styrene system. However in this case, the yield for styrene oligomers is low and only in the case of a very low concentrations of styrenes can a yield of 70 to 90 be obtained. For example, the oligomer yield is lower than 90 at temperatures between 50 and 100 C at a styrene concentration of 1.2 , and the oligomer yield decreases remarkably as the concentration of styrene increases. The prior art processes have the following disadvantages Therefore, it is an object of the invention to provide a process for preparing superior resins which does not exhibit the disadvantages mentioned above by using a catalyst which differs from prior art catalysts. In order to accomplish the aforementioned and other objects, the present invention is characterized by preparing oligomer resins from compounds containing carbon carbon unsaturated double bonds with the aid of a perfluoroalkane class ion exchange material serving as a catalyst. The process for preparing oligomer resins according to the invention is further characterized by allowing compounds containing carbon carbon unsaturated double bonds, preferably a styrene class compound such as styrene and α methylstyrene, and a vinyl compound such as α olefin, indene, coumarone, acenaphthylene or the like to polymerize, with the aid of a perfluoroalkane class ion exchange material serving as a catalyst, preferably from the viewpoint of corrosion, thermal and solvent resistance and the like an ion exchange membrane of which the matrix comprises fluorine containing resins, and SO₃H groups as a functional group. The process for preparing oligomer resins according to the invention is further characterized by allowing compounds containing carbon carbon unsaturated double bonds to polymerize with the aid of a perfluoroalkane class ion exchange material serving as a catalyst in the presence or absence of solvent. Solvent is not indispensable, but solvents such as CCl₄, cyclohexane, benzene, alkylbenzene class compounds and the like may be used. If an alkylbenzene class compound is used as a solvent, additional oligomeric products of the styrene class and the alkylbenzene class will also be produced in accordance with reaction conditions. An example of preparing resins from cracked petroleum naphtha or solvent naphtha is described below, but the invention is not limited to this and may be widely applied to cation polymerization of vinyl compounds. The cation exchange membrane is used in 0.1 weight excess with respect to the resiniferous vinyl compound in the cracked petroleum naphtha or solvent naphtha starting material, and the polymerization reaction is carried out under agitation at a temperature of 40 to 160 C over a time period of between 15 minutes and 10 hours so as to bring all of the starting material into contact with the cation exchange membrane polymerization process . The polymerization reaction solution obtained is drawn out to the reaction vessel without special processing for separating the catalyst. The reaction solution is distilled under reduced pressure. When the product is separated from the distillate by means of vacuum distillation, a resin of low molecular weight is obtained as a residue resin collecting process . A petroleum resin is obtained in cases where cracked petroleum naphtha is the starting material, and a coumarone indene resin is obtained in cases where solvent naphtha is the starting material. The starting material oil, specifically cracked petroleum naphtha and solvent naphtha, contains vinyl compounds such as styrene, coumarones, indenes and the like. The starting material oil is used in the polymerization process after previous processing for adapting the starting material oil to requirements. For example, in cases where a coumarone indene resin is prepared, basic materials which act as catalyst poisons causing accelerated coloring of the resin obtained are removed from solvent naphtha collected by distilling coal tar by means of washing with sulfuric acid or other known processes, and then the residue is distilled to adjust the composition of the resiniferous vinyl compound constituent. The distillate boiling point of 130 to 200 C is utilized. According to the invention, a cation exchange membrane which is a polymerization catalyst is utilized in the form of a ribbon or plate fixed to an agitator, or in the form of particle in liquid phase fluid state or in the packed state. Therefore, the polymerization reaction solution obtained is quite easily separated from the cation exchange membrane by drawing it out of the reaction vessel without special processing for separating catalysts which was previously required. Therefore, residual resins are easily collected by directly distilling the polymerization reaction solution drawin out of reaction vessel. Thus, the process of retrieving the resins according to the invention may be remarkably simpler than prior art methods. Furthermore, polymerization is subdued in the initial stages of the reaction according to the invention since polar groups in the cation exchange membrane are not freely mobile in the reagent solution during the polymerization reaction. Therefore, controlling the temperature of the polymerization reaction is facilitated. Furthermore, it is a second object of the invention to accomplish a superior process for preparing a high boiling point hydrocarbon oil with the aid of an ion exchange membrane serving as a catalyst, the process characterized in that The invention relates to a process using a particular cation exchange membrane as a catalyst in cases where a high boiling point hydrocarbon oil, which contains diarylalkane and styrene class dimers to tetramers and two to four benzene rings, are manufactured from alkylbenzene class and styrene class compounds. The process according to the invention may be achieved by means of With respect to the alkylbenzene class starting material, compounds represented by the general formula The ion exchange membrane used as a catalyst according to the invention is the cation exchange membrane for example, DuPont Corp. Nafion 177, 324 with SO₃H groups and the like, and may be used in proportions of 0.1 weight or more of the styrene class compounds in the reagents. A high boiling point hydrocarbon oil containing linear or cyclic dimers to tetramers of diarylalkane and styrene may be obtained at desired compositions by changing the reaction conditions concentration of styrene class compounds, reaction temperature, amount of catalysts and contact conditions in this catalyst system. Furthermore, the catalyst removing step from prior art acid catalyst technique is not required since the catalyst used is in membrane form. The system of the process according to the invention is described below with reference to the accompanying drawing. As shown in drawing, the above mentioned alkylbenzene and styrene starting materials are introduced in starting material tanks 1 and 2, these materials are fed into a mixer 4 from the respective tanks 1 and 2 by means of pumps 3, and then both materials are fully mixed here the first step . After the materials have been mixed by the mixer 4, the mixture is sent to a preheater 5 and heated to the desired reaction temperature 30 to 140 C by a suitable heating medium, and then the heated starting material mixture is sent to a reaction vessel 6 the second step . The subsequent third step in which a reaction is carried out under an ion exchange membrane, may be carried out by means of a batch type reaction apparatus, and preferably is carried out by means of a continuous tank type reaction apparatus 6 having an agitator. In the reaction vessel 6, ion exchange membranes may be arranged in the form of films or ribbons. The reaction temperature may be controlled e.g. by means of a jacket type heater. The reaction temperature according to the invention is between 30 and 140 C. It is the advantage in the process according to the invention that reaction heat due to polymerization of styrene is not abruptly generated in the reaction vessel even if high concentrations of styrene are used. This is the unique advantage of ion exchange membrane catalysts, and control of the reaction temperature may be very easily achieved. After reaction, the mixture is fed into a solvent collecting apparatus 7 and the solvent is collected. The unreacted alkylbenzeneclass compounds may be collected e.g. by a distilling apparatus 8 working under reduced pressure and the product may be obtained from the bottom of the distilling apparatus 8, in cases where the reaction is driven to completion with regard to styrenes. The alkylbenzene class compounds collected may be used again, but it would be more practical for the unreacted material collected to be used as a solvent since the composition after reaction will vary according to differences in reactivity of the constituent in cases where mixtures of alkylbenzene are used as a starting material. In cases where a single constituent is used, it is advantageous for the unreacted material to be collected for reuse. The high boiling point, aromatic oil obtained by the above mentioned process according to the invention can find broad uses as 1 electrical insulating oil, 2 oil for non carbon paper, 3 ink or vehicle for unsaturated polyesters, 4 substitutes for PCB, by itself or mixed with other hydrocarbon oil and 5 ram material for traction fluids. Drawing is a flowdiagram of the process according to the invention carried out as a continuous process. Preferred embodiments of the invention are described below. In Examples, parts means parts by weight if it is not otherwise described. A 300cc three neck distillation flask with a water cooled condenser is utilized as a reaction vessel. An agitator is mounted on the central port of the three neck distillation flask, and the other necks are utilized as ports through which a condenser and a thermometer are inserted. An oil exchange membrane trade marked Nafion produced by DuPont Corp. of USA was used. Solvent naphtha derived from coal tar was treated for removal of basic compounds by washing with sulfuric acid, and then was distilled to obtain a distillate with a boiling point of 130 to 200 C. 0.6 parts of cation exchange membrane was mounted on an agitator for 100 parts of starting material oil to be treated. They were allowed to react at 100 C for 4 hours under agitation so as to bring all of the starting material oil into contact with the cation exchange membrane. After reaction, the reagent solution was drawin out of the reaction vessel and immediately distilled under reduced pressure. Distillates with boiling points lower than 235 C at atmospheric pressure were removed, and 36 parts of resin were obtained as a residue. This represented a yield of 64.3 with respect to the vinyl compounds, such as indenes, coumarones, styrenes and the like, contained in the starting material. The resin obtained was yellow and the coumarone resin was of low polymerization degree polymerization degree 2 to 4, mainly 2 and fruid at room temperature. 20 parts of styrene and 30 parts of indene were mixed with 50 parts of mixed xylenes. This starting material oil was added to an agitator covered with 0.4 parts of cation exchange membrane as similar to Example 1 serving as a catalyst. They were allowed to react at 80 C for 4 hours under agitation so as to bring all of the starting material oil into contact with the cation exchange membrane. After reaction, the reagent solution was drawn out of the reaction vessel and immediately distilled under reduced pressure. 28 parts of light colored liquid resin were obtained as a residue. This was equivalent to a 56 conversion to resiniferous material. The average molecular weight was 240 and the resins obtained were mainly dimers. 20g of stylene was allowed to react in the presence of 30g of solvent xylene and 0.4 g of cation exchange membrane fixed to an agitator in a water cooled reaction vessel at 100 C for 2 hours. About 10µ1 of reagent solution was sampled periodically during the reaction and analyzed by gas chromatography. Consequently, it was found that the styrene peak disappeared after 1 hour. The reagent solution was removed after 2 hours and distilled under reduced pressure. The xylene solvent was collected, and 21.6g of fluid oligomer was obtained as a residue. The yield thereof was 108 . Therefore, it is recognized that an adduct derived from xylene existed in the product. 20g of α methylstyrene was allowed to react at 80 C for 4 hours in the presence of 30g of solvent xylene and 0.24g of cation exchange membrane according to Example 3. After the reaction, solvent and unreacted material were removed by distillation under reduced pressure, and 9.0g of fluid material was obtained as a residue. The product was an oligomer mainly comprising dimers to tetramers of α methylstyrene. 20g of styrene was allowed to react in the presence of solvent benzene or 30g of xylene and 0.4g of cation exchange membrane at various reaction temperatures for a time period of between 30 minutes and 2 hours. After the reaction, the solvent was collected and an oligomer composition was obtained as a residue. Their products were analyzed by gas chromatography. Consequently, it was found that the products comprised dimers to tetramers. The yields of the oligomeric materials produced and the dimer content weight proportion relative to other constituents are given in Table 1. A reaction was carried out at 80 C for 2 hours according to Example 3 except that the for utilizing starting material contained only 50g of styrene without solvent. Afer the reaction, the product was separated from unreacted styrene by means of distillation under reduced pressure. The product was mainly oligomers comprising dimers and tetramers of styrene. Styrene oligomers were manfactured at reaction temperatures of 25 C, 40 C, 60 C, 100 C, 120 C and 140 C according to Example 11. The product yield increasaed in approximately direct proportion with temperature, and was approximate 100 at a reaction temperature of 140 C. The average molecular weight of the oligomer resins obtained at each temperature was about 300 to 600, and decreased as reaction temperatures increased. A reaction was carried out at 80 C for 2 hours according to Example 11 except that 20g of acenaphthylenes was used as a starting material and 30g of benzene as a solvent. The solvent and the unreacted material were removed, and 18.9g of resin was obtained. The yield was 94.5 with respect to the starting material. As mentioned above, a resin collecting process may be remarkably simplified and abrupt polymerization due to excessive reaction heat in the initial stages of polymerization may be prevented by the invention, in that the catalyst separation process and the collection process may be omitted after polymerization by virtue of utilizing an ion exchange membrane as a polymerization catalyst. Furthermore, the products according to the invention have a very narrow molecular weight distribution, are easily soluble in various solvents, and are also suitable for use as compounding agents, diluents and the like. 5g of styrene and 45g of o xylene were placed in a 300 ml three neck flask with a cooler and a port for a thermometer, 0.04g of ion exchange membrane was mounted on a agitator in the form of ribbons, and then, after N₂ substitution, they were allowed to react at 120 C for 1 hour. The catalyst covered agitator was removed from the reaction vessel, the contents of the flask after reaction vessel, the contents of the flask after reaction were distilled, and 6.1g of high boiling point oil was obtained. The yield of this oil was 122 with respect to the styrene. Gas chromatography GC , gel permeation chromatography GPC and the like on the reaction product showed mainly dimers containing 3,4 xylylphenylethane A reaction was carried out according to Example 19 except that an m xylene was substituted for the o xylene. 3.9g of product was obtained by this reaction, the yield thus being 78 with respect to the styrene. Analysis by GC showed the proportion of dimers to tetramers to be 83.9 12.3. A reaction was carried out according to Example 19 except that a p xylene was substituted for the o xylene. 1.9g of product was obtained by this reaction, the yield thus being 28 with respect to the styrene. Analysis by GC showed the proportion of dimers to tetramers to be 68.5 28.2 Reactions were carried out at 120 C for 2 hours according to Example 19 except that quantitative relations of mixed xylenes and styrenes were as shown in Table 2 and the amount of catalyst was 0.8 with respect to the styrene. The yield, the average molecular weight and other properties of the product obtained by this reaction weight with respect to the styrene are shown in Table 2. Reactions were carried out according to Example 19 except that the concentration of the styrene was fixed 10 by weight and the reaction temperatures were as shown in Table 3. Also, the reactions were all carried out at the respective reaction temperatures for 1 hour. The yield and average molecular weight of the products obtained at the various reaction temperatures are shown in Table 3. 100g of styrene, 400g of mixed xylene and 2g of ion exchange membrane catalyst 2 with respect to the styrene were used, and the reaction as carried out at 140 C for 1 hour. In this case, reaction was carried out according to Example 19 except that the capacity of reaction vessel as 11. The yield of the product obtained by this reaction as 156 with respect to the styrene and the average molecular weight thereof was 253.6. The boiling point is presumed to be in the range of 310 to 450 C based on comparisons with common compounds. An example of the process using a batch type reaction apparatus according to the invention as described above, but the invention is not limited to batch type reaction apparatus and may be profitably carried out as a continuous process, as shown in drawing.