# Accident prevention guard for carding plants of the textile industries and for other uses.

## Abstract
An accident prevention guard for carding plants of the textile industry or for other uses is made up, at least in part, of a flexible curtain 5 capable of being slided horizontally, means for starting and stopping the plant being combined with said curtain. The guard further includes blocking means which prevent the sliding, that is, the opening of the curtain 5 unless all the members of the plant 1 are at standstill. Said curtain 15 is apt to be wound on a rotor 10 having vertical axis and to be unwound therefrom.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A works accident prevention guard for carding plants in the textile industry and for other uses, characterized in that it is made up at least in part of a flexible curtain capable of being slided horizontally, consensus means for the plant operation and plant stop means being combined with said curtain. 2. Guard according to claim 1, characterized in that it comprises blocking means which prevent the sliding, that is the opening of the curtain if all the plant members are not at a standstill. 3. Guard according to claims 1 and 2, characterized in that said curtain is apt to be wound on a vertical axis rotor and to be unwound therefrom. 4. Guard according to claims 1, 2 or 3, characterized in that said curtain is slidingly hanging from upper guide means, and possibly guided in its lower part. 5. Guard according to claims 1, 2 or 3, characterized in that said curtain is slidingly supported by lower guide means, and guided by upper guide means. 6. Guard according at least to claims 1, 2, 3 and 4 or 5 characterized in that said upper guide means are movable in order to eliminate their encumbrance after the sliding of the curtain to permit accessibility. 7. Guard according to claims 1, 2 and 3, characterized in that two flexible curtains can slide along the flanks of the apparatus to be protected, with two separate rotors for the winding. 8. Guard according to claim 1 or 2, characterized in that a flexible curtain is capable of surrounding a flank, one end and the other flank, by winding on and unwinding from a single rotor. 9. Guard according to the preceding claims,characterized in that motor driving means are provided for the winding. 10. Guard according to the preceding claims, characterized in that motor driving means are provided for the unwinding. 11. Works accident prevention guard for carding plants in the textile industries and for other uses all as above described and represented for exemplification in the attached drawing.

## Description
DESCRIPTION The invention refers to works accident prevention guard systems for various machines and in particular but not exclusively for cardroom assortments and cotton cards which the following description refers to. A guard of the above mentioned type must be as easy as possible to handle, must allow the maximum accessibility to the machine as well as an easy installation of consensus systems for stopping the moving members of the machine before allowing access therein and for ensuring the possibility to start the mobile members just after the protection condition is restored. These conditions are obviously valid for every type of application of the accident prevention guards and, in particular, for those of carding plants, in which numerous and independent protections are at present provided, to make the various machine zones accessible, not all these guards being easy to handle and combinable with consensus means. Cards, cardroom assortments and all the textile machines in general are usually enclosed in.cases of various forms, removably divided into sectors or having doors hinged to the same machines, or anchored to the ground all thins involves a great deal of work and a significant loss of time whenever the machine needs some servicing. The projections, the retention bars and other structures for the above mentioned cases greatly hinder the normal maintenance, often causing accidents.A further negative aspect is that, in order to enclose every machine, it is necessary to provide cases of different dimensions. Owing to the multiplicity of cases needed for protecting the same machine, the cases are not always protected by the so called machine stopping devices and therefore,they are likelytoberemoved when the machine is in motion, which is the cause of many serious accidents that occur in the working with textile machines. The invention refers to a protection system ensuring an extremely fast and easy handling, an almost complete accessibility to all the machine members, and an easy installation of consensus and interlocking means.These and other objects and advantages will be evident to those skilled in the art by reading the following desl ription, According to the invention, a works accident prevention guard for carding plants in the textile industry and for other uses, is made up, at least in part, of a flexible curtain capable of being slid horizontally consensus means to the plant operation and means for stopping it are combined with said curtain. Advantageously, blocking means are also provided which prevent the sliding, that is, the opening of the curtain unless all the plant members are stopped. According to a practical embodiment, the curtain is apt to be wound on a rotor, that is a roller, with vertical axis and be unwound therefrom. In addition, the curtain is slidingly hanging from upper guide means and possibly guided in its lower part. Alternatively, the curtain is slidingly supported by lower guide means and guided by upper guide means. The invention will be better understood by reading the following description and the attached drawing, which shows a practical non limitative exemplification of the same invention. In the drawing Figs.1 and 2 show schematically a side view and a plan view of one embodiment of the prevention guard according to the invention Pig.3 shows a plan view of a modified embodiment Fig.4 shows, partially and similarly to Fig.3, a further embodiment and Fig.5 shows a rough cross section view. In the drawing Figs.1 and 2 , a machine to be protected is generally indicated by 1 and the part 1A thereof makes up the entry with feed means possibly automated while 12 indicates the exit which may be left open as it does not bring about any particular danger.However, the most dangerous parts are the machine flanks. While the entry end corresponding to the part 1A can be protected by a fixed protection 3, the machine flanks are protected by two flexible curtains 5 see also Pig.5 sliding in the direction of the double arrows f5 for the closing and the opening. The curtains 5 are guided along upper rails 7 and lower rails 9. The flexible curtains 5 can hang from the rails 7 and be guided by rails 9 or they can be guided by rails 7 and made to rest on rails 9 in the first instance, the rails 9, being of guide only,can be eliminated. The flexible curtains may be made up of vertical slats articulated between them and or of a flexible continuous structure.In any case, according to Figs.1 and 2, each curtain can be amassed, that is, wound on a rotor 10 which is advantageously provided at the entry part IA. Each rotor can amass the respective curtain by winding it through a drive via a motor 12, for example, and each curtain can be manually unwound to protect the respective flank with its accident prevention function a motorized unwinding drive is also not excluded with, for example, flexible return means provided with an annular cable or other. The two rotors 10 can also be simultaneously operated for the winding up and, therefore, for the uncovering of the machine flanks and possibly also for stretching the respective curtains in the protection arrangement. The height of curtains 5 may be even lower than Åa man s height but still of sufficient height to ensure the protective function. The curtains when stretched in the protective arrangement reach terminal stops 14 which define the safety positioning for the accident prevention. To this aim, a contacts and consensus system may be provided cooperating between each of the posts 14 and a terminal rod of the respective curtain. In this way, a double consensus, being cascade like, that is, in series connected, can be generated to determine the possibility of starting the machine only on the condition that both the curtains are stretched inthe protective arrangement, and to block the machine or its dangerous members upon the beginning of the winding operation even for only one of the curtains. An electrical blocking system is also provided which prevents the winding manoeuvre unless all the machine members are at a standstill. In the embodiment of Fig.3, instead of two flexible curtains, a single curtain is provided which is wound up on a single rotor 20 and is unwound therefrom by sliding along rails 22, 24, 26, the rail 26 being a connection between rails 22 and 24 and the latter rails being developed along the flanks of the machine to be protected. A single post 114 acts as a terminal similarly to posts 14 of the preceding example. In this case, the exit is flanked on one side by the rotor 20 and on the other by the post 114, while the feeding occurs from the upper part relative to the curtain. According to Figs.3 and 4,provision is made if necessary and appropriate, for the achievement of the most coinplete accessibility to the machine to make the upper rails, as the ones indicated by 22, 24 or those indicated by 32 in Fig.4, movable from the usage arrangement along and beside the machine, up to a more or less spaced apart arrangement as indicated by 22A, 24A, 32A, in the drawing, or further on, by providing suitably displaceable posts along the floor or other platform surface surrounding the machine, also with possible straight or arched guide means. The movable rails may be displaced parallel to themselves or even and better, angularly displaced. With the removal of the rails an increase is obtained of access freedom to the flanks of the machine or, anyhow, to the machine members without even the limited encumbrar s of the aerial rails which, on the other hand, may be positioned at the easiest level in order not to be an obstacle in the accessibility. It is understood that the drawing shows an exemplification given only as a practical demonstration of the invention as this may vary in the forms and dispositions without nevertheless getting away from the idea on which the invention itself is based.