# LAYERED FABRIC

## Claims
Verfahren zur Herstellung eines mehrschichtigen Gewebes, umfassend die Schritte der Herstellung einer Substratschicht durch Beschichten einer L채ge von f채digem Plastikmaterial mit einer ersten Schicht von Polyolefinpolymer, die eine Oberfl채che des fertigen Gewebes aufweist, und des geschichteten Aufbringens der Substratschicht auf eine zweite Schicht, enthaltend eine gesondert extrudierte Schicht von Polyolefinpolymer, wobei die zweite Schicht die andere Oberfl채che des fertigen Gewebes bildet, und Substratschicht und zweite Schicht durch ein geschmolzen extrudiertes thermoplastisches Polymer miteinander fest verbunden werden.

## Description
This invention relates to a layered fabric which is substantially impervious and is thus useful as large diameter collapsible hose, and as a containment vessel including a liner for water storage and reticulation equipment, for example. The layered fabric is particularly useful in applications as cited above in which a need exists to form leak tight joints or seams in such hoses or liners. The invention particularly relates to a layered fabric comprising a filamentary layer providing an essentially reinforcing contribution to the fabric in conjunction with at least two other layers contributing in combination an impervious property. Additional layers can be included to provide further protection in an outdoor rural environment, for example. Examples of such fabrics can be found described in Australian Patent Specifications Nos. AU A 23 798 70 and AU B 13 087 83, British Patents Nos. GB A 1 241 921 and GB A 930 100, German Patent Specification No. DE A 2 226 671 and European Patent Specification No. EP A 0 125 645. The above described layered fabric is exceptionally advantageous when formed into collapsible hose of typical diameter of 250 mm when made from a composite layered fabric of flexible synthetic plastics. Using a laminate enables the highly economical manufacture of such hose having the advantages of low mass per unit length in relationship to its diameter and its carrying capacity, while at the same time displaying exceptional damage, overpressure, puncture and weather resistance. Hoses of this general type are known and are usefully employed for example in rural agriculture, flood mitigation and civil engineering site de watering. The fluidised conveyance of particulate material through such hoses is also practised. Known hoses suffer from certain disadvantages one type made from a single layer of polyolefin film suffers in that the nominally 250 mm diameter hose is only able to withstand an internal pressure of about 20 kPa and has very poor tear, abrasion, puncture and weather resistance. Another known type is made from a woven polyester fabric coated with an extrusion melt coated layer of polyvinyl chloride on each side. Although this type has satisfactory resistance to the rigours of use it is very heavy to handle. Also it is of high cost due to the high material costs as well as the slow production rate obtaining when welding the longitudinal seam. A hose made from the layered fabric of the present invention substantially overcomes, or ameliorates, the limitations of such earlier types of hose construction because the new and useful layered fabric has an unexpectedly useful balance of properties between high performance and low cost. According to a first aspect of the present invention there is provided a method of forming a layered fabric said method comprising the steps of forming a substrate layer by coating a layer of filamentary plastics material with a first layer of polyolefin polymer, said first layer comprising one surface of the finished fabric and According to a second aspect of the invention there is provided a containment vessel made from the fabric made according to the first aspect of the invention. A particularly significant embodiment of the second aspect of the invention is one in which the liquid containment vessel is a longitudinally seamed, collapsible hose. A particularly advantageous and significant embodiment of the first aspect of the invention is the layered fabric having the filamentary layer comprising a flexible web or strip of indefinite length composed of woven tapes of stretched polyolefin being warp tapes extending lengthways along the web and weft tapes extending transversely across the web. In a preferred and important embodiment the woven polyolefin layer is a substrate for a layer of low density polyolefin film on either side. In a most preferred version the two outer layers are of substantially equal width to that of the filamentary layer and are adhesively bonded to the woven layer over their full area of mutual contact. The preferred bonding adhesive is an extruded melt coat of a substantially polyolefin composition such as low density polyethylene LDPE . Some embodiments of the present invention will be described with reference to the accompanying drawings in which In Figure 1, the fabric of the first embodiment of the present invention is shown in the manner in which it is most economically and conveniently formed into a hose 5 having a lap or overlap type seam which extends longitudinally. The layer forming the inside of the hose 5 as partly depicted in Fig 1 is a separately extruded layer of low density polyethylene LDPE . This is referred to as the inner layer. The next adjacent layer 2 is an extrusion melt coated layer of LDPE which joins the inner layer 1 to the filamentary layer 3, in this case woven from stretched tapes of high density polyethylene. The other outer surface of the filamentary layer 3 is coated with an extrusion melt coat 4 of LDPE, which preferably contains additives capable of imparting resistance to abrasion and or ultra violet radiation. Fig 2 shows a second embodiment of the hose in which the inner layer 5 overhangs the remainder of the multi layered fabric to enable a seam to be fabricated in which the inner layer 1 of LDPE is enabled to be seamed in an overlap type seam as shown. A laminated structure was manufactured to the following specification The layered fabric was formed into a very long hose of 250 mm diameter and wall thickness approximately 0.3 mm by overlapping opposing edges of the layered fabric by 45 mm and then using heat and pressure to form a seam, by the hot air welding method in this case. At least equally satisfactory seams can be formed by ultrasonically welded or adhesive bonding methods. The resultant hose was tested by pumping water through it at a steady head of 60 kPa with occasional overpressure transients as high as 300 kPa. The hose remained substantially leaktight and remained so over the duration of the test several hours despite being run over several times while water filled by a heavy loader type vehicle fitted with tractor type tyres. The performance of this hose was regarded as remarkable in view of its low mass of 180 grams per lineal metre. Prior art type hoses without a filamentary layer failed under considerably less arduous service and those of the polyester fabric type coated with PVC only displayed comparable performance despite being approximately three times the weight and taking three times as long to seam weld as the hose as encompassed by this example. Other hoses where an inner LDPE layer was not separately extruded but was a melt coat of the same material leaked profusely under test from pinholes formed partly as a result of circumferential stretching of the hose under the pressure head obtaining during the test. The leakage was particularly high at the welded seam region. Variations include a variety of generally similar materials for the filamentary layer as well as polyolefin materials, polyester, nylon and other synthetic or natural fibres can be included as part or all of the filamentary layer which can include woven or non woven constructions. The several layers can be formulated or selected with specific desired properties, including, for example, UV and abrasion resistance, fire retardance, acceptability for contact with potable water, and colour for identification purposes. The number of seams in a hose or tube is not limited to one in number and the seam configuration is not limited to the lap ie overlap type as illustrated but can be the fin type. Rather than forming the hose or tube by forming a longitudinal seam it can be formed by spirally winding and seaming. It will be apparent that a most advantageous embodiment of a hose according to the present invention is one in which a multi layer web or strip of indefinite length is formed into a hose by heat and pressure welding a longitudinal lap seam. The hose is composed of an internal layer of separately extruded LDPE, preferably bonded to a polyolefin layer which in turn is coated externally by a melt extruded layer of LDPE. This outer layer can include additives to enhance ultra violet stability of the hose when exposed to direct sunlight and or additives to impart abrasion resistance. The layered fabric disclosed shows particular advantage when constructed into a layflat, collapsible hose, of diameter typically 100 mm or greater where advantages over known prior art hoses of similar types are as follows Although the preferred embodiment is a hose, the above described fabric can be made into other containment vessels such as tank liners, dam liners, and the like. The foregoing describes only some embodiments of the present invention and modifications, obvious to those skilled in the art, can be made thereto without departing from the scope of the present invention.