# METHOD FOR CARRYING OUT THERMAL SHOCK TESTS IN ELECTRONIC FIELD

## Claims
Verfahren zur Ausführung von Thermoschocktests, welches umfaßt

## Description
The present invention relates to a method for carrying out Thermal Shock Tests in the electronic industry. More particularly, the invention relates to a method for carrying out such tests by means of perfluoropolyethers. The Thermal Shock Test TST , the modalities of which are described in US MIL STD 883 1105,1 consists in submitting the electronic components to high and low temperature thermal cycles, subsequently testing both the physical characteristics of the materials, and their electrical functional characteristics. In practice, the components are alternatively and repeatedly dipped into a hot inert fluid, and into a cold inert fluid. The temperatures at which the tests are usually carried out depend on the reliability degree required to the electronic components. The most suitable temperature couples are It is required that the transfer of the electronic devices from the one to the other bath and vice versa takes place within very short times, not longer than 10 seconds. For this test, highly fluorinated fluids are commonly used. It is known in fact that the compounds having a high fluorine content show an exceptionally favourable combination of excellent characteristics, such as the chemical inertia, the thermal stability, the non flammability, the high electrical resistivity, the low surface tension, the poor solubility in water, the compatibility with many materials, such as elastomers, plastomers and metals. Perfluoroalkanes having linear or cyclic structure obtained by fluorinating aliphatic, cycloaliphatic or aromatic hydrocarbons are known. An example representative of the cyclic compounds is perfluorodimethylcyclohexane, obtained by reacting xylene with CoF₃. However, the so obtained fluids are not completely fluorinated, because they contain byproducts still having hydrogen atoms. The presence of such byproducts decreases the thermal stability and the chemical inertia of such fluorinated fluids, limiting their application field. Moreover, even when these fluids are completely fluorinated, they have not very high boiling temperatures when their pour points are very low. By pour point the temperature is meant at which the liquid, upon cooling, modifies its physical characteristics, i.e., at which its flowing capability decreases, because its viscosity increase. In general, as the pour point the temperature is considered at which the viscosity reaches the value of 100,000 cSt ASTM D 97 Standard . For example, for pour points of 70 Also perfluorinated compounds having ether or aminic structure, obtained by electrofluorination in hydrofluoric acid of the corresponding hydrogenated compound are known. An example representative of these compounds is perfluorotributylamine. In this case too, the fluids which are obtained are not completely fluorinated, as it occurs for the above described fluids, and show the same disadvantages. In Table 1, the physical characteristics of some of the hereinabove mentioned products are reported. It can be seen that a group of these products can be used only at high temperatures, whilst another group can be used only at low temperatures. In fact, the range from the boiling temperature and the pourpoint is generally relatively wide, but not wide enough to enable the same perfluorinated compound to be used both at high and low temperatures. The compounds belonging to the class of the amines, when have rather high boiling points, have high pour points the class of cyclic ethers has pour point which can be also very low, but the respective boiling temperatures are low. From GB A 1 104 482 and US A 3 665 041 it was known that perfluoropolyether fractions are suited as fluids for heat exchange and heat resistant. Perfluorinated liquids were considered, in the prior art, to be the ideal fluids for TST baths, as stated in EVAL. ENG. USA vol. 9, No. 6, 1970. On page 8 this paper mentions the use of FC77 and FC43 as distinct perfluorinated liquids for the low and the high temperatures in the TST. The use of couples of different fluids for the low and the high temperatures in the TST implies problem of both practical and economic character. In practice, the rapid transfer of the pieces being tested from the cold to the hot bath and vice versa, because of the dragging of the fluids, causes 1 mutual pollution of the baths, with consequent change of the physical chemical characteristics of the fluids 2 loss by evaporation of aliquots, which can also be substantial, of the low boiling fluid, when this is dragged into the high temperature tank and when the hot pieces are dipped into the cold bath 3 increase of the viscosity of the low boiling fluid polluted by the high boiling fluid 4 contemporaneous lowering of the level of the cold fluid, and increase of that of the hot fluid actually, it occurs a greater dragging of the cold fluid, which is very viscous under the use conditions 5 need for the equipment to be stopped from time to time to replace the fluids 6 need for a rectifier unit to be available for the reclaiming of the two mutually polluted fluids. The demand hence existed for a method for carrying out Thermal Shock Tests by means of a fluid suitable to be individually used both at high and low temperatures, so as to avoid the above described drawbacks. The object of the present invention is hence to provice a method for carrying out Thermal Shock Tests using only one single fluid for both low and high temperatures, which fulfills the requisite of chemical inertia and which at the same time has high boiling temperature, higher than the temperature at which the test is carried out, and good fluidity at low temperatures, as evidenced by the pour point. The object of the invention is hence a method for carrying out Thermal Shock Tests, which comprises Perfluoropolyethers having viscosity lower than 6 cSt at 20 The viscosity, in the present invention, is always measured at 20 The perfluoropolyethers containing the indicated units are known, and are preferably selected among the following classes The fluids of the present invention show the characteristic of having a narrow molecular weight distribution, with both the highly volatile and the high boiling fractions being absent. Moreover such fluids, by being contemporaneously characterized by a low pour point, show an enough low viscosity for use also at the indicated very low temperatures. A further characteristic of the fluids of the invention is their volatility particularly in the case of viscosity less than 4 cSt, the removal by evaporation from the components is easily obtained at the end of the test, so that the tested component can be used with no need for it to be subsequently washed from the residues of the fluid used in the test. In the case of viscosity greater than 4 cSt it is preferred a washing with chlorofluorocarbon solvents, for example Algofrene 113 The contemporaneous presence of these properties in one single fluid makes this class of products particularly suitable for use in TST. The following Examples are given to the only purpose of illustrating the invention, and are not to be intended as limitative thereof. Two stainless steel tanks A and B of 20 litres of capacity, the temperature of which can be controlled at temperatures respectively higher tank A and lower tank B than room temperature are prepared. Into the two tanks 24.1 kg and 36.7 kg are respectively introduced of a perfluoropolyethers mixture of general formula which, on the basis of the N.M.R. data of ¹⁹F, results to have an m n ratio 3.8 and A A CF₃, with minimum amounts of C₃F₇ and C₂F₅ end groups. The average molecular weight, determined by the VPO Vapour Pressure Osmometry procedure, results to be 480. The perfluoropolyether has kinematic viscosity η 2.2 cSt at 20 A temperature of 125 By using a basket, into the two tanks a set of chip carriers with plastic container and a set of resistors coated with ceramic material are alternatively introduced. The whole cycle lasts 60 seconds, the total of the permanence time within each tank plus the transfer time being 30 seconds. After 100 cycles the two tanks contain 26.6 kg and 32.8 kg of fluid respectively. The most of the missing fluid is found on the working desk between the two tanks 0.6 kg thereof are recovered, so that the total evaporation loss is not higher than 1.3 by weight. At the end of the tests the fluid appears unchanged, nor residues are found either in the fluid or in the heat exchange coils or elsewhere. The test is carried out as described in Example 1, and using the same fluid, with the difference that the permanence time of the devices being tested inside the cold tank is increased to 90 seconds and the number of cycles is reduced to 20. It is observed that the temperature fluctuations reach the value of 1 Similarly to what observed in Example 1, neither the formation of residues nor alterations of the fluid are seen. The test is carried out as described in Example 1, using a fluid having the same general formula as hereinabove described under point 1 , and with the same m n ratio, but characterized by having average molecular weight 490, viscosity η 2.38 cSt at 20 It is observed that the temperature of the cold bath fluctuates between 65 During the execution of the test, the level of fluid in tank A increases by 2 cm, due to the effect of cold fluid dragging by the basket containing the chip carriers. No appreciable evaporation losses of fluid from the high temperature tank are observed. By using the same system of tanks as described in Example 1, with the difference that they are interconnected by a level pipe, so that the fluid can freely move between the two tanks, and bringing at constant temperature respectively at 65 No temperature fluctuations are observed in the high temperature bath, whilst in the cold bath the temperature fluctuations are not higher than 5 C. No appreciable fluid losses due to evaporation are observed. An equipment similar to that of Example 1 is used, but with 5 litre tanks, each equipped with 2 thermocouples for reading the temperature at two diametrically opposite sites, filled with the same polyether as of Example 3. The tanks are brought at constant temperature respectively at 125 The temperature fluctuations are of the order of about 3 Inside the hot bath the thermocouples never signal mutual temperature differences higher than 0.1 At the end of the test, it is observed that the level in the high temperature tank has increased from 9.9 to 10 cm as measured at 125 The increase of fluid volume is of 50 ml in the hot tank, and the loss of fluid from the cold tank is of 350 ml, the most of which is collected on the work desk between the two tanks.