# Herbicidal 4 benzoyl 1 alkyl alkenyl pyrazoles.

## Abstract
Novel pyrazole derivatives of the formula I

## Claims
1. A pyrazole derivative of the formula I wherein R represents an alkyl group having 2 to 4 carbon atoms or an alkenyl group having 2 to 4 carbon atoms which may be substi tuted by halogen atom, X represents a halogen atom, a lower alkyl group, nitro group, cyano group, a lower alkylsulfonyl group or trifluoromethyl group, n represents an integer of 2 to 4, Q represents hydrogen atom an aralkyl group which may be substituted by halogen atom, nitro group, cyano group or a lower alkyl group benzenesulfonyl group which may be substituted by a lower alkyl group or halogen atom benzoyl group which may be substituted by a lower alkyl group or halogen atom phenacyl group which may be substituted by a lower alkyl group or halogen atom a lower alkyl group which may be substituted by halogen atom a lower alkenyl group which may be substituted by halogen atom or a lower alkynyl group.

## Description
This invention relates to novel pyrazole derivatives, method for preparation thereof, a selective herbicidal composition containing as an active ingredient one or more of said derivatives, and method for damaging and controlling weeds using said derivati ves. Hitherto, some pyrazole derivatives having herbicidal act ivity has been known. For example, Japanese Patent Publication No. 36648 79 corresponding to U.S. Pat. Nos. 4,063,925 and 4,146,726 and Japanese Laid open Patent Publication No. 41872 79 correspond ing to U.S. Pat. No. 4,230,481 , Japanese Laid open Patent Publica tion No. Sho 56 61358 61358 81 , U.S. Pat. No. 4,557,753 and U.S. Pat. Appln. No. 735,656 disclose certain 4 benzoyl derivatives of pyrazole which are useful for herbicides. Among these pyrazole derivatives, however, two compounds represented by the formula below are used practically and commercially as an active ingredient of a herbicide for use in a paddy field as far as the present inventors knowledge is concerned. All the pyrazole derivatives disclosed by the above mentioned publication No. 41872 79 have a lower alkyl group, speci fically CH₃ group, at 3 position of the pyrazole ring. Also the majority of the pyrazole derivatives disclosed by the above mentioned publication No. 36648 79 have a lower alkyl group at the 3 position of the pyrazole ring and OH, SH, a salt thereof or an organic acid ester thereof at 5 position of said ring among the pyrazole derivatives disclosed by said publication, only the compound of the following formula is exemplified as a pyrazole derivative having hydrogen atom at 3 position i.e., unsubstituted at 3 position of the pyrazole ring The compound C, however, is inferior to the commercialized compound A in herbicidal activity as is apparent from the biological test data given in the above mentioned publication No. 36648 79. Despite the fact that a number of pyrazole derivatives have been synthesized and the herbicidal activity thereof has been tested, there has not been found a pyrazole derivative which is unsubstituted at 3 position of the pyrazole ring and which exhibits herbicidal ac tivity except the above mentioned compound C. This is because synthesis of pyrazole derivatives unsubsti tuted at 3 position has been very difficult while a pyrazole deriva tive substituted by an alkyl at 3 position has been relatively read ily prepared, and because the former compound has been believed to be less active in herbicidal action and thus less practical than the latter one. The present inventors have done intensive researches on pyrazole derivatives having hydrogen atom at 3 position of the pyra zole ring and have unexpectedly found that some of these pyrazole derivatives exhibit herbicidal action against a wide range of weeds, particularly against perennial weeds such as perennial flat sedge The present inventors have filed an application for an in vention on the basis of the above mentioned knowledge and have gran ted a patent thereto under the U.S. Patent No. 4,557,753,. In this U. S. Patent No. 4,557,753, the pyrazole derivatives have hydrogen atom at 3 position of pyrazole ring, CH₃ group at 1 position thereof and specific group is substituted at 5 position thereof. After the present inventors have intensively advanced the researches, they have found that in the above mentioned 3 H pyrazole derivatives, when 1 C₂H₅ compounds having an ethyl group at 1 position of pyrazole ring and 1 CH₃ compounds having methyl group at the same position are compared, 1 C₂H₅ compounds showed remarkable effects to the grass weeds, and the improvement of the effects to the paddy weeds such as Among the compounds according to the present invention, there exist some compounds which show superior as to safety to culti vated plants, e.g., rice Moreover, in comparison with prior arts, the specificity of substitution at 1 position of pyrazole ring which is the features of the present invention is summed up as follows Firstly, in case of 3 CH₃ type pyrazoles as recognized in the earlier patent application, U.S. Pat. No. 4,063,925, and as ap parent from the comparison between the compounds of said U.S. Patent No. 4,063,925 Compounds No. 44 and No. 11, Compounds No. 107 and No. 51, Compounds No. 108 and No. 14, and Compounds No. 109 and No. 105, it is clear that the intention of said U.S. Patent No. 4,063,925 was directed to 1 CH₃ compounds because there was no remarkable differ ence of activity between 1 CH₃ type pyrazoles and pyrazoles substi tuted by alkyl group having more than two carbon atoms at 1 position under the both conditions of paddy field and dry field farming . On the other hand, in case of 3 H type pyrazoles, as shown in the later described tables, there was remarkable difference of activity between 1 CH₃ compounds and pyrazoles substituted by alkyl group having more than two carbon atoms at 1 position. In this as pect, it is understood that even a person skilled in the art could not expect the present invention. Especially, under not only paddy rice field conditions but also dry field farming, the present invention has such an inventive step that the present invention shows remarkable higher activity in not only soil treatment but also foliage application which show very high cultivated plant selectivity. Furthermore, the present inven tion has sufficient inventive step in a point that it shows higher activity with respect to seriously harmful weeds such as grass weeds, broadleaf weeds, etc., and further to An object of the present invention is to provide a novel pyrazole derivative having strong herbicidal action against weeds, particularly against weeds in paddy field which have not been easily controlled. Another object of the present invention is to provide a process for preparing the above mentioned novel pyrazole derivatives. Further object of the present invention is to provide a selective herbicidal composition containing one or more of such py razole derivative s as an active ingredient. Still further object of the present invention is to provide a novel pyrazole derivative which can control weeds in the field of corn. Among the compounds of the present invention, there are com pounds which are very high as to safety to corn Other objects and features of the present invention will be apparent from the description hereinbelow. Pyrazole derivatives of the present invention are repre sented by the formula I Preferable substituents R are ethyl group, isopropyl group or allyl group and most preferable ones are ethyl group or isopropyl group. Preferable substituents X at 2 and 4 positions are halogen atom, lower alkyl group, nitro group, lower alkylsulfonyl group and trifluoromethyl group and in case that they are unsubsti tuted, activity is generally lowered. Preferable substituents X at 3 position are lower alkyl group and halogen group, but this posi tion may be unsubstituted. The most preferable substituents X are halogen atom including chlorine atom or methyl group, in 2 position non substitution or methyl group, at 3 position and halogen atom including chlorine atom and methanesulfonyl group, in 4 position. In case that Q represents except for hydrogen atom, Q is synthesized from a compound of hydrogen atom, which shows an actvity having basically the same property with compounds in which Q is hydrogen by various substituents. However, by introducing substitu ents into Q, there may often cause such cases that strongness or weakness of acitivity and weeding spectrum change especially there may be a case that phytotoxicity to economic plants are further low ered. The above mentioned substituents are selected from various kinds of substituents. In light of herbicidal activity, safety to the economic plants and ready production of compounds, the most pre ferable substituents are hydrogen atom, benzyl group, p toluensulfo nyl group, phenacyl group, methanesulfonyl group, acetyl group. Preferred compounds of the formula I are those wherein R represents an alkyl group having 2 to 4 carbon atoms or allyl group, X represents a halogen atom, a lower alkyl group, nitro group, a lower alkylsulfonyl group or trifluoromethyl group, n is an integer 2 to 4, and Q represents benzyl, tosyl, methanesulfon yl, benzoyl, phenacyl, allyl, propargyl group or hydrogen atom. Another preferred compounds of the formula I are those wherein R represents ethyl or isopropyl group, X represents a halogen atom, a lower alkyl group or methanesulfonyl group, n is an integer 2 to 4, and Q represents hydrogen atom, benzyl, tosyl, mesyl, phenacyl, allyl or propargyl group. More preferred compounds are those of the formula V Particularly preferred compounds are those of the formula VI More especially preferred compounds are those of the formula VII Compounds having the best combinations of R, X and Q are 4 2,4 dichlorobenzoyl 1 ethyl 5 benzyloxypyrazole, 4 2,4 dichlorobenzoyl 1 isopropyl 5 benzyloxypyrazole, 4 2 chloro 4 methanesulfonylbenzoyl 1 ethyl 5 hydroxy pyrazole 4 2 chloro 3 methyl 4 methanesulfonylbenzoyl 1 ethyl 5 hydroxypyrazole 4 2 chloro 4 methanesulfonylbenzoyl 1 isopropyl 5 hydroxylpyrazole 4 2 chloro 3 methyl 4 methanesulfonylbenzoyl 1 isopropyl 5 hydroxypyrazole 4 2 methyl 4 methanesulfonylbenzoyl 1 ethyl 5 hydroxypyrazole 4 2 methyl 4 methanesulfonylbenzoyl 1 isopropyl 5 hydroxypyrazole 4 2,3 dimethyl 4 methanesulfonylbenzoyl 1 ethyl 5 hydroxypyrazole 4 2,3 dimethyl 4 methanesulfonylbenzoyl 1 isopropyl 5 hydroxypyrazole The compounds of the formula I may be readily prepared according to the following reaction scheme Reaction 1 represents a reaction series comprising i synthesizing 4 carboethoxy 5 hydroxy 1 alkyl alkenyl pyrazole from a diethyl ethoxymethylene malonate and alkyl alkenyl hydrazine through cyclization reaction, followed by ii hydrolzing with mineral acid such as hydrochloric acid, etc. and decarboxylating the resulting compound to obtain 5 hydroxy 1 alkyl alkenyl pyra zole. The cyclization reaction is performed at a temperature from 50 C to 200 C, preferably from 20 C to 100 C in an inert solvent such as methanol, ethanol, water, dioxane, benzene or toluene. The hydrolysis and decarboxylation is performed at a temperature from 50 C to 150 C, preferably around boiling point of the solvent used in cyclization reaction. All of compounds a which are an intermediate of the present invention are novel sub stances and group of compounds which can be utilized as an inter mediate for medicine and agricultural chemicals. In this connec tion, the compound a is a tautomer with the same compound with a compound a shown by the following formula a Instead of Reaction 2 , the compound b may readily be synthesized by Reaction 2 performed by heating the ester with potassium carbonate or sodium carbonate in an inert solvent such as doxane at a temperature from 50 C to 150 C Instead of Reaction 2 , the compound b may readily be synthesized by Reaction 2 According to this reaction, the objective compound b can be obtained readily and in a good yield in one step by react ing the compound a with appropriate substituted benzoic acid under the presence of an appropriate condensing agent and a basic substance. As a dehydrating condensing agent used in this reaction, carbodimides such as N,N dicyclohexyl carbodiimide, N,N di isopropyl carbodiimide, N,N diethyl carbodiimide, N cyclohexyl N morpholinoethyl carbodiimide are suitable. Suitable basic substances are, for example, sodium car bonate, potassium carbonate, sodium methoxide, potassium ethoxide and potassium tertiary butoxide. Furthermore, this reaction is carried out in an inert solvent. For example, it is desirable to use alcohols such as isopropanol, tert. butanol, sec butanol, tert. amylalcohol, but Ketones such as methyethyl ketone, diethyl ketone, etc. and nitriles such as acetonitrile, propionitrile, etc. may be used. The reaction is completed between 30 minutes and 10 hours by mixing the compound a , substituted benzoic acid, dehy drating condesning agent having eqaul mole, a basic substance hav ing a half to equal mole in the solvent and heating the mixture. The reaction temperature is not especially limited, but is desira ble to determine the temperature between 50 C and a boiling point of a solvent to be used. After the reaction, the objective compound b is obtain ed in the form of metal salt. Moreover, the compound b which is the free form can be readily isolated by using appropriate acid to adjust pH to 3. Reaction 3 represents a condensation reaction of an in termediate b with an appropriate halide such as benzyl chloride, tosyl chloride to produce the compound of the formula I. This re action is preferably carried out in a solvent which is inert to the reaction in the presence of a dehydrohalogenating agent. Suit able inert solvents are, for example, ethers such as diethyl ether, tetrahydrofuran and dioxane, aromatic hydrocarbons such as benzene, toluene and xylene, ketones such as acetone, methylethyl ketone, halogenated hydrocarbons such as dichloromethane, chloroform and carbon tetrachloride, ethyl acetate, N,N dimethylformamide, acetonitrile and the mixtures thereof. Among these solvents preferred ones are benzene, toluene, acetone and acetonitrile. Sui table dehydrohalogenating agents for Reaction 3 are, for exam ple, inorganic bases such as sodium carbonate, and potassium carb onate, and organic bases such as pyridine, triethylamine and N,N diethylaniline, and preferably triethylamine. The reaction tem perature ranges from room temperature to the boiling point of the solvent employed. However, it is most advantageous to effect the reaction at the boiling point of the solvent from the viewpoint of operation. By selecting the above mentioned reaction conditions of the condensation reaction 3 appropriately, the compounds of the formula I can be obtained in a quite high yield. Synthesis of the compounds according to the present inven tion is illustrated by way of the following examples which do not restrict the present invention. A solution of 10.8 g 0.05 mol of ethoxymethylenemalonate diethyl ester in 20 ml of ethanol was cooled to 0 C. To the soluti on was added dropwise 10 g 0.05 mol of 30 aqueous solution of ethylhydrazine, while keeping the reaction temperature at below 5 C. After the completion of the dropwise addition, the resulting mixture was stirred for 1 hours at room temperature, and then refluxed for 3 hour. After the completion of the reaction, the solvent in the mixt ure was distilled off under reduced pressure and concentrated. Then, the residue was added with 20 ml of 35 hydrochloric acid and was subjected to hydrolysis and decarbonating reaction at the reflux temperature for 3 hours. After the completion of the reaction, the solvent was distilled off under the reduced pressure and dried to obtain 5.3 g of 1 ethyl 5 hydroxy pyrazole as its hydrochloride. Yield 72 ¹H NHR δ, ppm, CDCl₃ DMSO d₆ 1,42 3H, t, J 7Hz, C To an aqueous solution of 13.2 g 0.2 mol of potassium hy droxide pure degree 85 dissolved in 55 ml of water was portion wise added 14.85 g 0.1 mol of 1 ethyl 5 hydroxy pyrazole hydroch loride with stirring under the ice cooling and neutralized to ob tain its potassium salt. Thereafter, 60 ml of chloroform was added to the reaction mixture to prepare two layers. In the resulting mixture was dropwise added 20.95 g 0.1 mol of 2,4 dichlorobenzoyl chloride while keeping the temperature at below 5 C and the mixture was stirred at room temperature for 2 hours, followed by addition stirring for 1 hour at 40 C, and then, the reaction was ceased. After cooling the reaction solution, the organic layer was separated, washed successively with 5 aqueous sodium bicarbonate, water and saturated brine and, after drying over sodium sulfate anhydride, the solvent was distilled off under reduced pressure and the remaining mixture was dried and caked to give a crude product of 5 2,4 dichlo robenzoyloxy 1 ethylpyrazole. Then, thus obtained ester form crude product was added with 10 ml of 1,4 dioxane and dissolved, and was added with 20.7 g 0.15 mol of anhydrous potassium carbonate at 120 C. The resulting mixture was continued to heat with stirring for about 1 hour to solidify the reaction mixture. The obtained solid product was added with 50 ml of water and heated to be dissol ved. After the dissolution, the temperature was cooled to the room temperature, and the dissolved mixture was added with hydrochloric acid to be adjusted to pH 1. The precipitated solid product which was obtained by filtration was dried and and recrystalliezed from a mixture of n hexane benzene to obtain 22.5 g of 4 2,4 dichloro benzoyl 1 ethyl 5 hydroxypyrazole. Yield 79 m.p. 144 146 C ¹H NMR δ, ppm, CDCl₃ 1.43 3H, t, J 7Hz, To 30 ml of benzene was added 1.43 g 0.005 mol of 4 2, 4 dichlorobenzoyl 1 ethyl 5 hydroxypyrazole and additionally added 0.51 g 0.005 mol of triethylamine to prepare homogeneous solution. To the solution was added 0.86 g 0.005 mol of benzyl bromide with stirring at the room temperature and then, heated and reacted at the reflux temperature for 4 hours. After the reaction mixture thus obtained was cooled, the prepared salt was fil tered off. The obtained benzene solution was washed successively with 5 aqueous solution of sodium bicarbonate, water and saturated brine, and dried with anhydrous sodium sulfate. Then, the benzene was distilled off under reduced pressure to give oily residue. The resulting oil was purified through a slica gel column chromatography eluent benzene to obtain 1.41 g of the objective 4 2,4 dichloro benzoyl 1 ethyl 5 benzyloxypyrazole as colorless oily product. Yield 75 ¹H NMR δ, ppm, CDCL₃ 1.19 3H, t, J 7Hz, C After 2.35 g 0.021 mol of 1 ethyl 5 hydroxypyrazole was dissolved in 20 ml of tert. amyl alcohole, the mixture was succesi vely added with 4.69 g 0.02 mol of 2 chloro 4 methanesulfonyl benzoic acid, 5.33 g 0.021 mol of N,N dicyclohexyl carbodiimide and 1.52 g 0.011 mol of anhydrous potassium carbonate, and heated at 50 60 C for 5 hours, followed by additional stirring for 1 hour at 90 C. Then, the reaction was ceased. After cooling, solvent was distilled off from the reaction solution, and the resi due was added with 50 ml of 5 aqueous solution of potassium hydrox ide to dissolve the soluble matter. After insoluble matter was fil tered off, the aqueous layer was washed with chloroform and separ ated. This operation was twice carried out. The obtained aqueous layer was adjusted to pH 1 by adding concentrated hydrochloric acid, and the precipitated solid product was dissolved in chloro form and extracted. After the chloroform layer was dried over sodi um sulfate anhydrate, the solvent was distilled off to give a crude product of the objective product. Then, the crude product was recrystallized from 95 ethanol to obtain 5.38 g of 1 ethyl 4 2 chloro 4 methanesulfonylbenzoyl 5 hydroxypyrazole. Yield 82 m.p. 172.0 175.0 C 5.34 g of the objective 1 ethyl 4 2 chloro 3 methyl 4 methanesulfonylbenzoyl 5 hydroxypyrazole were obtained in the same operation and treatment as the Synthesis Examples 4 except that 4.69 g 0.02 mol of 2 chloro 4 methanesulfonyl benzoic acid were replaced by 4.97 g 0.02 mol of 2 chloro 3 methyl 4 methanesulfonyl benzoic acid. Yield 78 m.p. 225.0 227.0 C 1.5 g 0.01 mol of 1 ethyl 5 hydroxypyrazole hydrochlo ride was portionwise added to a solution of 1.3 g of potassium hy droxide purity 85 in 10 ml of water with stirring under ice cooling to give potassium salt thereof. Then, 10 ml of chloroform was added to the mixture to form two layers. To the two layer mixture was portionwise added 2.5 g 0.01 mol of 2 chloro 4 methanesulfonylbenzoyl chloride by keeping the temperature at below 5 C. The resulting mixture was stirred at the room temper ature for 2 hours, followed by further stirring at 40 C for 1 hour. After the reaction mixture was cooled, the chloroform layer was separated, and was succesively washed with 5 aqueous solution of NaHCO₃, water, saturated brine. Then, the reaction mixture was dried over sodium sulfate anhydride and the solvent was dis tilled off under reduced pressure. The residue was dissolved in 2 ml of 1,4 dioxane and heated to 120 C and then, was added with 2.1 g 0.015 mol of anhydrous potassium carbonate at 120 C and further heated for about 3 hours. After the temperature was left to cool to 90 C, the mixture was added water and dissolved, then the temperature was returned to the room temperature. After that, the mixture was adjusted to pH 1 by adding hydrochlo ric acid. The precipitated solid matter was filtered, dried and recrystallized from ethanol to obtain 1.8 g of the title compound. Yield 55 The compounds listed in Table 1 were synthesized in the same manner as Synthesis Example 1. However, the present invention was not limited to these compounds. The compounds synthesized according to Synthesis Examples 2 5 are listed in Table 2. When the compounds according to the present invention are used for a herbicide, they may be applied generally together with suitable carriers such as solid carriers, e.g., clay, talc, ben tonite, diatomaceous earth, etc., or liquid carriers, e.g., water, alcohols methanol, ethanol, etc. , aromatic hydrocarbons benzene, toluene, xylene, etc. , chlorinated hydrocarbons, ethers, ketones, esters ethyl acetate, etc. , acid amides dimethylformamide, etc. . It is possible to add, as necessary, surfactants, dispersing agents, suspending agents, penetrating agents, spreaders, stabilizers, etc. to form arbitrary formulations such as emulsifiable concentrate, wettable powder, flowable Suspension Concentrate , granule, etc. for practical use. If necessary, the compounds according to the invention may be mixed, during formulation or application, with other herbicides, various insecticides, bacteriocides, plant growth regulator, cooper ants, etc. The other herbicides include the compounds described in Farm Chemicals Handbook 69th year of publication 1983 . In the following formulation examples, parts are by weight unless otherwise specified. Compound No. 19 of the present invention 30 parts xylene 45 parts Sorpol 2680 10 parts a mixture of non ionic surfactant and anionic surfactant trade name supplied by Toho Chemical Co., Ltd., Japan dimethylformamide 15 parts The above ingredients are homogeneously blended with one anoth er in suitable device to give an emulsifiable concentrate. When in use, it is diluted with a suitable amount of water and applied. Compound No. 77 of the invention 20 parts xylene 75 parts Sorpol 2680 5 parts a mixture of non ionic surfactant and anionic surfactant trade name supplied by Toho Chemical Co., Ltd., Japan The above ingredients are homogeneously blended with one another in suitable device to give an emulsifiable concentrate. When in use, it is diluted with a suitable amount of water and applied. Compound No. 152 of the invention 50 parts Zeeklite A 46 parts kaolin type clay trade name supplied by Ziecleid Industries Co., Ltd., Japan Sorpol 5039 2 parts a mixture of non ionic surfactant and anionic surfactant trade name supplied by Toho Chemical Co., Ltd. Japan Carplex coagulation inhibitor 2 parts white carbon trade name supplied by Shionogi Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd., Japan The above ingredients are intimately mixed and ground in appropriate mills and rollers to give wettable powder. When in use, this wettable powder can be diluted with an appropriate amount of wa ter to obtain suspensions of the concentration required and applied. Compound 28 of the invention 50 parts Zeeklite A 46 parts kaolin type clay trade name supplied by Ziecleid Industries Co., Ltd., Japan Sorpol 5039 2 parts a mixture of non ionic surfactant and anionic surfactant trade name supplied by Toho Chemical Co., Ltd., Japan Carplex coagulation inhibitor 2 parts white carbon trade name supplied by Shionogi Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd., Japan The above ingredients are intimately mixed and ground to give wettable powder. When in use, this wettable powder is dilu ted with an appropriatre amount of water and applied. Compound No. 18 of the invention 25 parts Agrisol 8 710 10 parts non ionic surfactant trade name supplied by Kao Atlas Co., ltd. Japan Lunox 1000C 0.5 part anionic surfactant trade name supplied by Toho Chemical Co., Ltd., Japan 1 aqueous Rhodopol 20 parts thickening agent trade name supplied by Rhone Poulenc S.A. Water 44.5 parts The above ingredients are homogeneously mixed to give flowable. When in use, this flowable is diluted with an appropriate amount of water and applied. Compound No. 80 of the invention 25 parts Agrisol 8 710 10 parts non ionic surfactant trade name supplied by Kao Atlas Co., Ltd., Japan Lunox 1000C 0.5 part anionic surfactant trade name supplied by Toho Chemical Co., Ltd., Japan 1 aqueous Rhodopol 20 parts thickening agent trade name supplied by Rhone Poulenc S.A. Water 44.5 parts The above ingredients are homogenously mixed to give flowable. When in use, this flowable is diluted with an appropriate amount of water and applied. Compound No. 2 of the invention 5 parts bentonite 55 parts talc 40 parts After the above ingredients are intimately mixed and ground, a small amount of water is added thereto and the mixture is kneaded well, granulated by means of an extrusion type granulator and dried to give granules. The herbicidal compositions containing the compounds according to the present invention are applicable to non cultivation lands such as athletic fields, vacant lands, railroad sides to damage and control a variety of weeds in addition to agricultural and horticultural lands such as farmlands, paddy fields, fruit gard ens, etc. The application dosage of the compounds according to the invention may vary depending upon the place to be applied, applica tion season, application manner, kind of weeds to be controlled, cultivated crops, etc., and is generally in the range of 0.01 to 10 kg per hectare ha . The herbicidal effectiveness of the compounds according to the present invention will be explained specifically by way of the following test examples. After a certain amount of alluvial soil was placed in a Wagner pot of 1 5,000 are a , water was added thereto to obtain a sub merged state of 2 cm in water depth through well mixing. Then, seeds of rice On the 10th day after sowing, which corresponds to a period when rice and weeds were grown at 1 2 leaf stage, diluted solution of the chemical which was prepared to become predetermined amount of the chemical was added dropwise by means of a measuring pipette to the soil. Three weeks after the addition of the chemical liquid, herbicidal effects to rice and each weed were evaluated in the fol lowing standard of judgement 5 herbicidal rate above 90 completely withered 4 herbicidal rate 70 90 3 herbicidal rate 40 70 2 herbicidal rate 20 40 1 herbicidal rate 5 20 0 herbicidal rate below 5 practically no efficacy . The above herbicidal rate was calculated by the following equation based on the weight measured of live plants above soil in the herbicidal treatment plot and the untreated plot. Herbicidal rate The results are shown in Table 3. Sterilized diluvial soil was placed in a plastic pot of 1 10000 are a in opening area and 10 cm in depth. Then were sown in spot like corn The diluted solution was prepared by diluting with water the wettable powder or emulsifiable concentrate in the above formu lation examples and applied by menas of a small spray over the whole surface of the soil. Four weeks after the application, herbicidal effect against various weeds was evaluated according to the follow ing evaluation rating. The results are shown in Table 4. Evaluation rating 5 ... above 90 in herbicidal rate completely withered 4 ... 70 to 90 in herbicidal rate 3 ... 40 to 70 in herbicidal rate 2 ... 20 to 40 in herbicidal rate 1 ... 5 to 20 in herbicidal rate 0 ... less than 5 in herbicidal rate practically no effect ive . The above herbicidal rate was calculated in similar manner with the Test Example 1. In a plastic box of 15 cm length x 22 cm width x 6 cm depth was placed sterilized diluvial soil, and corn was sown. Aft er covering the seeds with the soil about 1.5 cm in depth and corn plant were grown until 2 leaf stage. A diluted solution containing a predetermined amount of an active ingredient was uniformly applied over the top of corn plant. The diluted solution was prepared by diluting with water the wettable powder or emulsifiable concentrate in the above formulation examples, and the resulting diluted solu tion was applied by means of a small spray over the whole surface of the plant. Three weeks after the application, phytotoxity against the above crops was evaluated according to the following evaluation rating. The results are shown in Table 5. Evaluation rating 5 ... crops are almost completely withered. 4 ... remarkable phytotoxity against crops is observed. 3 ... phytotoxity against crops is observed. 2 ... some phytotoxity against crops is observed. 1 ... phytotoxity against crops is scarely observed. 0 ... no phytotoxity against crops is observed.