# Plasma trench etch.

## Abstract
A trench is etched in silicon 14 using CF₃Br gas in an annular flow plasma reactor I . The reactor is operated in a triode mode with the upper electrode II grounded, the sidewall 13 driven by a high frequency signal 31 and the lower electrode 12 driven by a low frequency signal 32 . A D.C. bias 34 may additionally be applied to the lower electrode.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. In a process for etching silicon in a parallel plate plasma reactor using CF3Br gas wherein the improvement comprises the steps of providing CF3Br gas at a flow rate of from 1 15SCCM and a pressure of 100 450 mtorr causing a glow discharge in said reactor and exposing a semiconductor wafer to said discharge. 2. The process as set forth in claim 1 and further including the step of providing a gas selected from the group consisting essentially of oxygen and hydrogen in an amount not to exceed the amount of CF3Br. 3. The process as set forth in claim 1 and further comprising the step of operating said reactor in a triode mode. 4. The process as set forth in claim 3 wherein aD.C. bias is applied to the lower electrode of said reactor. 5. The process as set forth in claim 4 wherein said glow discharge is caused by continuously applying RF power to said reactor. 6. The process as set forth in claim 4 wherein said glow discharge is caused by applying pulsed RF power to said reactor. 7. The process as set forth in claim 3 and further comprising step of first placing said wafer on one electrode of said reactor. 8. The process as set forth in claim 7 wherein said first step is preceded by providing an insulating ring around said wafer.

## Description
PLASMA TRENCH ETCH Background of the Invention This invention relates to plasma etching and, in particular, to etching deep channels or trenches an silicon. As known in the art, trenches which have been refilled with oxide are used to isolate devices in an integrated circuit. In,order to assure isolation, the trenches are relatively deep, e.g. on the order of 3 15 microns. It is further desired that the etch be relatively uniform and produce vertical or nearly vertical sidewalls.For shallow grooves, these criteria are met relatively easily. For trenches, these criteria are more difficult.Further, the problem is compounded by the fact that, as device geometries are reduced, the width of the trench should also be reduced, in proportion if possible.Achieving uniform, vertical walls etc. in a narrow trench is more difficult because of the decreased aspect ratio width to depth of the trench. Plasma reactors have been used for trench etches, with varying degrees of success. One problem which must be overcome is etch rate. Improved etch techniques are desired so that an etch two or more times as deep does not require twice as long to perform, or longer. Thus, it remains a problem to increase the etch rate, but not at the expense of uniformity or other parameters. A wide variety of gases have been proposed or even used for various etch operations. The gases can be divided generally, although not precisely, by the operand, i.e. the layer or material being etched. For example, photoresist is usually etched in a plasma comprising oxygen, among other gases. Aluminum is typically etched in a chloride mixture, e.g. BC13. Silicon has perhaps the most gases proposed for the etching thereof. Usually, a member of theFreon family is included in the mixture. Conversely, a particular gas or gas mixture may have been proposed for a variety of operands. For example, it is known in the art to use CF3Br for plasma etching. InU.S. Patent 4,374,698, a mixture comprising 1 15 CF3Br is used to etch silicon nitride using silicon dioxide as a mask. An improved selectivity is alleged for the addition of the CF3Br. In U.S. Patent 4,226,665, a mixture of 70 CF3Br 30 He is disclosed for etching silicon. An etch rate of about 600 angstroms per minute is alleged. In U.S.Patent 4,314,875, a mixture of 50 CF3Br 50 NF3 is disclosed as etching photoresist at the rate of about 700 angstroms per minute. Even ignoring the operand, the etch rates disclosed in these patents are not suited for trench etches because they are two slow. For example, a 6 micron 60,000 AO etch would take 100 minutes at 600 AO per minute. I n view of the foregoing, it is therefore an object of the present invention to provide an improved trench etch for silicon. Another object of the present invention is to provide a rapid trench etch for silicon. A further object of the present invention is to provide a rapid trench etch for silicon which is at least as uniform as prior art etches. Summary of the Invention 4 The foregoing objects are achieved in the present invention wherein CF3Br gas is used in a parallel plate, radial flow plasma reactor operated in a triode mode. The wafer is maintained at a temperature of 10 250C. The pressure in the chamber is maintained between 100 mtorr and 450 mtorr. The applied signals comprise 300 800 watts at 13.56 14Hz, 100 200 watts at 100 KHz, and, optionally, a D.C. bias on the electrode in contact with the wafer. H2 or 02 gases can be added up to fifty percent by volume. A more complete understanding of the present invention can be obtained by considering the following detailed description in conjunction with the accompanying drawings, in which Brief Description of the Drawings The FIGURE illustrates a parallel plate, annular flow plasma reactor for use in the present invention. Detailed Description of the Invention The FIGURE illustrates a preferred embodiment of a plasma reactor suitable for use in carrying out the present invention. Specifically, reactor 10 comprises what is known as a parallel plate reactor in which upper electrode 11 is generally planar and positioned opposite lower electrode 12. Separating the two electrodes is sidewall 13 which is electrically insulated from both electrodes.Specifically, insulating means 18 separates upper electrode 11 from sidewall 13 while frame member 15, which comprises a suitable ceramic, separates sidewall 13 from lower electrode 12. Wafer 14 rests on lower electrode 12 and is located within insulating ring 16, which serves to adapt frame member 15 and electrode 12 to various sized wafers by minimizing the amount of exposed upper surface on lower electrode 12. Gas is supplied to the chamber by way of a suitable fitting in bore 21 formed in frame merger 15. Bore 21 is coupled to an annular bore 22 which prcies gas abo t the periphery of the lower portion of the caber. The gas is exhausted through an aperture in insulator 18 to a gap foned between upper electrode 11 and insulator 53. gap extends to plenum 19 in upper electrode 11 where the gas is collected by a suitable exhaust means connected to fitting 25. As thus configured, reactor 10 is what is known as an annular flow reactor since the gases are supplied about the periphery of the lower electrode and exhausted about the periphery of the upper electrode. In accordance with the present invention, reactor 10 is operated in what is known as the triode mode.Specifically, upper electrode 11 is grounded. Sidewall 13 is connected to source 31 of high frequency power. Lower electrode 12 is connected to source 32 of low frequency power. Optionally, one can provide a DC bias to wafer 14 by way of bias means 34, illustrated in the FIGURE as a battery. High frequency source 31 typically comprises a 13.56 MHz signal at 300 800 watts power. Source 32 typically comprises a 100 FHz signal at 100 200 watts. In operation, a wafer is placed upon electrode 12 and lower electrode 12 is raised into position, as illustrated in the FIGURE, thereby closing the plasma reactor. The reactor chamber is evacuated and filled with a suitable gas, as described in more detail herein by way of particular examples. A plasma is then ignited by applying the signals from sources 31 and 32. After a predetermined length of time, or as determined by an end point detector not shown , the plasma is terminated, the chamber is returned to atmospheric pressure, and wafer 14 is removed. The following examples are given to clearly describe the present invention. It is understood by those of skill in the art that the examples are illustrative only and not exhaustive of the scope of the present invention. Example 1 Single crystal silicon wafers having a mask layer comprising silicon dioxide were etched in a triode, annular flow reactor as described above except ceramic ring 36 was not used. The gas comprised CF3Br at 100 mtorr. The high frequency source provided 800 watts at 13.56 MHz. The low frequency source provided 200 watts at 100 KHz. The temperature of the lower electrode was maintained at 250C. The etch rate was about .45 microns per minute at a flow of 5 SCCM per minute and increased to about .6 microns per minute when the gas flow was increased to 10SCCM per minute. Further increase in gas flow did not significantly increase the etch rate. Example 2 Under conditions as described above, the pressure was varied while the flow was maintained at 5 SCCM. At 100 mtorr, the etch rate was about .45 microns per minute with a uniformity of about 4 percent. At 200 mtorr, the etch rate was about .7 microns per minutes but the uniformity degraded to 10 percent. At 300 mtorr, the etch rate and uniformity were slightly higher. Example 3 Under conditions similar to Example 2, the applied RF signals were pulsed to obtain a fifty percent duty cycle and a period of 0.7 milliseconds. Ceramic ring 36 was also used and the lower electrode was held at 100C. At 100 mtorr, the etch rate was .60 microns per minute. At 200 microns, it was about .68 microns per minute. At 300 microns, it was about .75 microns per minute. Example 4 A single crystal silicon wafer was etched in a reactor as illustrated in the FIGURE using 5 SCCM of CF3Br at 400 mtorr. The applied powers were 500 watts continuous at 13.56 MHz and 100 watts continuous at 100 KHz. The lower electrode was held at 100C. A bias of 100 VDC was applied to the lower electrode. The calculated etch rate was 1 micron per minute with a uniformity of 6 percent. In general, based on these and other experiments, pulsing the plasma decreased uniformity, as did increasing the pressure. Anisotropy was obtained. The trenches had smooth sidewalls and rounded bottoms. Adding chlorine to the gas mixture causes some bowing of the sidewalls. Argon or helium causes roughness in the sidewall. Adding nitrogen tends to cause undercutting. Oxygen or hydrogen can be added without ill effect. There is thus provided by the present invention an improved etch process in which the etch rate is in excess of an order of magnitude higher than the prior art.Despite this considerable increase in etch rate, reasonable uniformity is obtained. Having thus described the invention, it will be apparent to those of skill in the art that various modifications can be made within the spirit and scope of the present invention. One can add gases to accommodate particular layers or impurities exposed to the plasma, although the active gases should comprise at least 50 of the mixture.