# A SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR CONTROLLING THE OPENING ANGLE OF A THROTTLE VALVE ACCORDING TO THE POSITION OF AN ACCELERATOR FOR AN AUTOMOTIVE VEHICLE

## Claims
System zur Steuerung des Öffnungswinkels eines Drosselventils 18 einer Brennkraftmaschine in Abhängigkeit von der Stellung eines Gashebels 10 , mit

## Description
The present invention relates to a system and method for controlling the opening angle of a throttle valve located within a throttle chamber of an intake air passage of an engine according to the position of an accelerator member of an automotive vehicle. A known throttle control system of this type is described in US A 4 508 078. In that system a throttle valve driving signal is responsive to the detected position of the accelerator member and further to the rate of change of the position of the accelerator member in such a manner that the throttle driving signal is additionally increased when the rate of change per unit time of the position of the accelerator member exceeds a predetermined value. Accordingly, the response of the throttle valve to the movements of the accelerator member is increased when the accelerator member is actuated rapidly. The position of the accelerator member is measured periodically, so that a sequence of position values l In the document JP A 59 58131, a throttle control system is disclosed in which changes in the opening angle of the throttle valve are controlled so as to be greatly magnified as compared with changes in the position of the accelerator. In the above described conventional systems, however, the vehicle speed is sensitive to even minute changes in the accelerator position. Therefore, it is difficult to hold the vehicle speed constant. With the above described problem in mind, it is an object of the present invention to provide a system and apparatus for controlling the opening angle of the throttle valve according to the operating position of the accelerator, in which changes in the opening angle of a throttle valve are controlled so as to be magnified relative to the rate of change of the operating position of the accelerator and at the same time the vehicle speed can be held approximately constant when the displacement of the accelerator pedal is not remarkable. According to the invention, this object is achieved by the system specified in claim 1 and the method specified in claim 6. Further developments of the invention are indicated in the dependent claims. A more complete understanding of the present invention may be taken in counjunction with the attached drawings and in which Reference will hereinafter be made to the drawings in order to facilitate understanding of the present invention.