# OXOTHIAZOLIDINE COMPOUND

## Claims
1. Oxothiazolidinverbindung der Formel

## Description
This invention relates to a new oxothiazolidine compound. More particularly, it relates to a new oxothiazolidine compound and pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof which are useful as a pharmacological agent, especially cognition activator, to processes for the preparation thereof and to a pharmaceutical composition comprising the same. EP A 0123977, EP A 0136945 and Dic. VIDAL Ed 1987 VIGILOR fipexide, p. 1707 disclose various compounds having the property of stimulating and improving cerebral function. The oxothiazolidine compound of this invention can be represented by the formula wherein R¹ is benzoyl having C₁ C₆ alkoxy a group of the formula or pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof. The pharmaceutically acceptable salt of the compound I may be, for example, an acid addition salt such as fumarate, maleate, acetate, citrate, hydriodate, hydrochloride, sulfate, phosphate or benzoate. The compound I and salt thereof can be prepared, for example, by the following processes. wherein R², A, m, X and Y are each as defined above, R in which R², X and m are each as defined above, R 1 b is benzoyl having C₁ C₆ alkoxy, The starting compound II is novel and can be prepared, for example, by the following preparations. wherein A is as defined above, V is a protected carboxy and Z The compound VI is a known compound, preparation thereof is described in Yakugaku Zasshi, The salts of the compounds II and VI may be, for example, a salt with an inorganic or organic base such as alkali metal hydride e.g. lithium hydride , alkyl alkali metal e.g. butyl lithium , alkali metal e.g. sodium, potassium , alkali metal hydroxide e.g. sodium hydroxide, potassium hydroxide , trimethylamine or N,N dicyclohexylamine. The salts of the compounds Ia , Id , Ie , III and V may be inorganic or organic acid addition salts as those exemplified in the explanation of pharmaceutically acceptable salts of the compound I . The various terms used in the above and subsequent description of this specification, are to be understood as having the following definitions. The term lower is intended to mean 1 to 6 carbon atom s . Suitable C₁ C₆ alkoxy include methoxy, ethoxy and propoxy. Suitable C₁ C₆ alkyl include methyl, ethyl, propyl, isopropyl, butyl, isobutyl, sec butyl, t butyl, pentyl and hexyl. Suitable C₁ C₆ alkylene include methylene, methylmethylene, ethylene, trimethylene, propylene, ethylethylene, tetramethylene, pentamethylene and hexamethylene. Suitable examples of an acid residue include halogen fluorine, chlorine, bromine and iodine and arenesulfonyl e.g. benzenesulfonyl and toluenesulfonyl . Suitable examples of protected carboxy include esterified carboxy such as C₁ C₆ alkoxycarbonyl e.g. methoxycarbonyl, ethoxycarbonyl, propoxycarbonyl, isopropoxycarbonyl, butoxycarbonyl, isobutoxycarbonyl, t butoxycarbonyl, pentyloxycarbonyl and hexyloxycarbonyl . The processes and preparation as illustrated above are explained in more detail in the following. The object compound Ia or salt thereof can be prepared by reacting the compound II or its reactive derivative at the carboxy group or salt thereof with the compound III or its reactive derivative at the amino group or salt thereof. The reactive derivative at the carboxy of the compound II may be, for example, an acid halide e.g. acid chloride, acid bromide , acid anhydride, acid azide, activated amide or activated ester e.g. succinimide ester . The reactive derivative at the amino group of the compound III may be, for example, a silyl derivative formed by the reaction of the compound III with a silyl compound e.g. bis trimethylsilyl acetamide or trimethylsilyl acetamide . When the starting compound II is used in a free acid form, the reaction may preferably be conducted in the presence of a conventional condensing agent e.g. dicyclohexylcarbodiimide . The reaction is usually conducted without a solvent or in a solvent which does not adversely influence the reaction such as N,N dimethylformamide, dimethylsulfoxide, tetrahydrofuran, dichloromethane, chloroform, toluene, xylene, pyridine or a mixture thereof. The reaction can also be conducted in the presence of an organic or inorganic base such as alkali metal e.g. sodium , alkaline earth metal e.g. calcium , alkali or alkaline earth metal hydride e.g. sodium hydride, calcium hydride , alkali or alkaline earth metal hydroxide e.g. sodium hydroxide, potassium hydroxide, calcium hydroxide , alkali or alkaline earth metal carbonate or bicarbonate e.g. sodium. carbonate, potassium carbonate, sodium bicarbonate , alkali or alkaline earth metal alkoxide e.g. sodium ethoxide, lithium methoxide, magnesium methoxide , trialkylamine e.g. triethylamine , pyridine or bicyclodiaza compound e.g. 1,5 diazabicyclo 3,4,0 nonene 5, 1,5 diazabicyclo 5,4,0 undecene 5 . The reaction temperature is not critical and this reaction can be conducted within the temperature range of cooling to heating. The compound Ic can be prepared by reacting the compound VI or salt thereof with an acylating agent. The acylating agent to be used in this reaction includes an organic acid i.e. R 1 bOH X , in which R 1 b is benzoyl having C₁ C₆ alkoxy and its reactive derivative. The suitable reactive derivative of the compound X may be a conventional one such as an acid halide e.g. acid chloride, acid bromide , an acid azide, an acid anhydride, an activated amide, an activated ester or an isocyanate. When free acid is used as an acylating agent, the acylation reaction may preferably be conducted in the presence of a conventional condensing agent. The reaction is usually conducted in a solvent which does not adversely influence the reaction such as N,N dimethylformamide, dimethylsulfoxide, tetrahydrofuran, dichloromethane, chloroform, pyridine or a mixture thereof. The reaction can also be conducted in the presence of an organic or inorganic base as those exemplified in the explanation of the Process 1. The reaction temperature is not critical and this reaction can be conducted within the temperature range of cooling to heating. The Compound Ie or salt thereof can be prepared by oxidizing the compound Id or salt thereof. The oxidation is usually carried out by using an oxidizing agent employed for oxidizing a sulfur atom in heterocyclic ring e.g. m chloroperbenzoic acid, hydrogen peroxide, potassium permanganate . The reaction is usually conducted in a solvent which does not adversely influence the reaction such as N,N dimethylformamide, dimethylsulfoxide, tetrahydrofuran, dichloromethane, chloroform, pyridine or a mixture thereof. The reaction temperature is not critical and the reaction can be carried out under cooling to warming. The compound VIII can be prepared by reacting the compound VI or salt thereof with the compound VII . The reaction condition of this reaction is substantially the same as those of the process 2 mentioned above. The compound II or salt thereof can be prepared by subjecting the compound VIII to removal reaction of the carboxy protective group. The removal reaction of this process may include a conventional reaction for removing carboxy protective group such as hydrolysis. The hydrolysis is preferably carried out in the presence of inorganic or organic acid e.g. hydrochloric acid, sulfuric acid, acetic acid, trifluoroacetic acid , or inorganic or organic base e.g. sodium hydroxide . The reaction is usually carried out in a solvent which does not adversely influence the reaction such as water, methanol, ethanol, propanol or acetic acid, at a temperature range of cooling to heating. The object compounds in the above processes and preparations can be purified and isolated from the reaction mixture, and converted to the desired salts in a conventional manner. The object compound I of this invention and pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof are useful as pharmacological agents. More specifically, they are cognition activators which are potentially useful in treating patients suffering from senility, lost or impaired memory or amnesia. In addition, the object compound I may be useful in treating patients having certain learning disabilities. The following test is given for the purpose of illustrating pharmacological activity of the compound I of this invention. Test 1 Effect of representative compounds of formula I on electroconvulsive shock induced amnesia Male ddY mice aged 6 weeks and weighing 30 35 g were used in groups of 20. The step through passive avoidance equipment consisted of two V shaped compartment of same size light and dark which was divided by a guillotine door. The chamber size was as follows, lower diameter 4cm, upper diameter 10 cm, height 10 cm, length 14 cm. The light chamber was constructed entirely of clear plastic. It was illuminated by a 60 W light positioned about 10 cm above the chamber. The dark chamber was constructed of black colored plastic. The each floor consisted of 24 stainless steel bars which were 2 mm in diameter and 5 mm apart. A foot shock of constant voltage AC pulse could be delivered to the bars by shock generator Ohara Ika Sangyo . Training procedure was to place the animal in the light chamber. The animal was tamed for 30 sec, and the guillotine door was opened. When the animal had all four paws on the grid floor of the dark chamber, the guillotine door was shut, and then, foot shock of 60 V was applied for 3 sec. The door was opened again, and the animal returned to the light chamber was removed. Immediately after acquisition of passive avoidance response, electroconvulsive shock of 22 mA 0.3 sec was given through the ears, and subsequently followed by an oral dose of test compound. Test compound was suspended in 0.5 methylcellulose solution and was also given 1 hr before the test. The animal was tested 24 hr later using the same procedure except that no shock was delivered. The animal s latency, to step through the dark chamber was measured. If the animal did not step through into the dark chamber within 300 sec, the trial was termed. Test result Electroconvulsive shock after passive avoidance training produced complete amnesia. On the other hand, the administration of test compounds significantly prevented the electroconvulsive shock induced disruption of the memory of a passive avoidance response in mice, that is, reduced retention time was reversed increased by the administration of these drugs. The object compound I or its pharmaceutically acceptable salt can usually be administered to mammals including human beings in the form of a conventional pharmaceutical composition such as capsule, micro capsule, tablet, granule, powder, troche, syrup, aerosol, inhalation, solution, injection, suspension, emulsion, suppository, ointment, or the like. The pharmaceutical composition of this invention can contain various organic or inorganic carrier materials, which are conventionally used for pharmaceutical purpose, such as excipient e.g. sucrose, starch, mannit, sorbit, lactose, glucose, cellulose, talc, calcium phosphate, calcium carbonate, etc. , binding agent cellulose, methyl cellulose, hydroxy propylcellulose, polypropylpyrrolidone, gelatin, gum arabic, polyethyleneglycol, sucrose, starch, etc. , disintegrator e.g. starch, carboxymethyl cellulose, calcium salt of carboxymethyl cellulose, hydroxy propylstarch, sodium glycole starch, sodium bicarbonate, calcium phosphate, calcium citrate, etc. , lubricant e.g. magnesium stearate, talc, sodium laurylsulfate, etc. , flavoring agent e.g. citric acid, mentol, glycine, orange powders, etc. , preservative sodium benzoate, sodium bisulfite, methylparaben, propylparaben, etc. , stabilizer citric acid, sodium citrate, acetic acid, etc. , suspending agent e.g. methyl cellulose, polyvinylpyrrolidone, aluminum stearate, etc. , dispersing agent, aqueous diluting agent e.g. water , base wax e.g. cacao butter, polyethyleneglycol, white petrolatum, etc. . A dosage of the present active ingredient is to be varied depending on various factors such as weight and or age of a patient and or the kind of the diseases, and further the kind of administration route. In general, an effective dosage can be selected from a range of about 2 1000 mg day for an oral route, about 1 250 mg day for an intramuscular or intravenous injection. The total daily amount mentioned above may be divisionally given to the patient at the interval of 6 12 hours per day. Preferable single dose of the present active ingredient may be, for example, about 1 300 mg per tablet or capsule, about 1 250 mg per vial or ampoule, and so on. The starting compounds to be used in the preparation of the object compound I of this invention can be specifically prepared in the following Preparations. A solution of 4 oxothiazolidine 50 g in tetrahydrofuran 900 ml was added dropwise to a suspension of sodium hydride 60 dispersion in mineral oil 22.6 g in tetrahydrofuran 850 ml at room temperature and the mixture was allowed to warm up to reflux temperature. After the mixture was refluxed for an additional 30 minutes, ethyl bromoacetate 60 ml was added dropwise under that condition. The mixture was refluxed further 1 hour and then cooled. Insoluble materials were removed by filtration. The filtrate was evaporated in vacuo and the residue was purified by silica gel column chromatography by eluting with chloroform to give ethyl 4 oxo 3 thiazolidinylacetate 78.5 g as light brown powder. The following compounds were prepared in a similar manner to that of Preparation 1. A solution of ethyl 2 4 oxo 3 thiazolidinyl propionate 2.60 g in a mixture of 1N aqueous sodium hydroxide 12.8 ml and methanol 64 ml was stirred for 2 hours at room temperature. After the solvent was evaporated in vacuo, 1N hydrochloric acid 19.2 ml was added to the residue and the mixture was stirred for several minutes. After the mixture was concentrated to dryness, the residue was mixed with tetrahydrofuran 50 ml and the resultant insoluble solid was removed by filtration. The filtrate was evaporated in vacuo to give 2 4 oxo 3 thiazolidinyl propionic acid 2.25 g as light yellow semi solid. A solution of 4 oxothiazolidine 3.00 g in tetrahydrofuran 40 ml was added dropwise to a suspension of sodium hydride 60 dispersion in mineral oil 1.28 g in tetrahydrofuran 30 ml at room temperature with stirring. 3 Bromo 1 chloropropane 3.15 ml was added dropwise to the mixture under refluxing and the mixture was allowed to reflux for 9 hours. After the resultant precipitate was removed by filtration, the filtrate was evaporated in vacuo. The residue was chromatographed on basic alumina by eluting with ethyl acetate and then with a 10 1 mixture of toluene and ethyl acetate to give 3 3 chloropropyl 4 oxothiazolidine 2.60 g as colorless oil. The following compound was prepared in a similar manner to that of Preparation 3. 4 Oxo 3 thiazolidinylacetic acid Thionyl chloride 2.00 ml was added dropwise to a solution of 4 oxo 3 thiazolidinylacetic acid 1.60 g in a mixture of dichloromethane 20 ml and tetrahydrofuran 5.0 ml at room temperature. After the mixture was stirred for 5 hours at the same temperature, the solvent was evaporated in vacuo to give 4 oxo 3 thiazolidinyl acetyl chloride 1.78 g as brown semisolid. The following Examples are given for the purpose of illustrating this invention. A mixture of ethyl 4 oxo 3 thiazolidinylacetate 25.0 and 1 diphenylmethylpiperazine 67.0 g was held at 135 C for 15 hours. The reaction mixture was chromatographed on basic alumina by eluting with a 20 1 mixture of toluene and ethyl acetate to give light brown powder 46.4 g , which was recrystallized from a mixture of ethanol and n hexane to afford 1 4 oxo 3 thiazolidinyl acetyl 4 diphenylmethyl piperazine 30.7 g as slightly brown prisms. The following compounds were prepared in a similar manner to that of Example 1. A mixture of 2 4 oxo 3 thiazolidinyl propionic acid 2.00 g , 2,6 dimethylaniline 1.38 g , and dicyclohexylcarbodiimide 2.35 g in chloroform 15 ml was refluxed for 48 hours. The resultant precipitate was removed by filtration and the filtrate was evaporated in vacuo. The residue was triturated with diethyl ether and recrystallized from ethanol to give N 2,6 dimethylphenyl 2 4 oxo 3 thiazolidinyl propionamide 1.45 g as colorless prisms. Triethylamine 2.13 ml was added to a mixture of 3 3 chloropropyl 4 oxothiazolidine 2.50 g , 1 diphenylmethylpiperazine 3.86 g and potassium iodide 2.54 g in N,N dimethylformamide 25 ml at room temperature with stirring and the mixture was allowed to warm at 45 C for 15 hours. After the solvent was evaporated in vacuo, the residue was mixed with water 50 ml and extracted with dichloromethane 40 ml . The extract was washed with water, dried over magnesium sulfate and evaporated in vacuo. The residue was triturated with a mixture of ethanol and diethyl ether to give light brown powder 2.80 g , which was recrystallized from methanol to afford monohydriodic acid salt of 1 3 4 oxo 3 thiazolidinyl propyl 4 diphenylmethylpiperazine 1.80 g as colorless prisms. A solution of 4 methoxybenzoyl chloride 20.7 g in tetrahydrofuran 50 ml was added dropwise to a mixture of 4 oxo thiazolidine 12.5 g and triethylamine 16.9 ml in tetrahydrofuran 200 ml at 5 C with stirring. The mixture was stirred at that temperature for 3 hours and at room temperature for 4 hours, and allowed to stand overnight. After the solvent was evaporated in vacuo, the residue was mixed with water and extracted with ethyl acetate. The extract was washed with saturated aqueous sodium hydrogen carbonate and then with water, dried over magnesium sulfate and evaporated in vacuo. The residue was recrystallized from a mixture of ethyl acetate and n hexane to give 3 4 methoxybenzoyl 4 oxothiazolidine 18.1 g as slightly brown prisms. The following compound was prepared in a similar manner to that of Example 5. 3 2 Methoxybenzoyl 4 oxothiazolidine, as slightly yellowish brown prisms. A solution of 4 oxo 3 thiazolidinylacetyl chloride 1.75 g in tetrahydrofuran 5.00 ml was added dropwise to a suspension of 3 4 piperidyl indole 2.00 g and triethylamine 4.10 ml in a mixture of tetrahydrofuran 15.0 ml and chloroform 5.00 ml at 4 to 7 C with stirring. After the mixture was allowed to stir for 1 hour with ice bath cooling, the resultant precipitate was removed by filtration and the solvent was evaporated in vacuo. The residue was mixed with saturated aqueous sodium hydrogen carbonate 10.0 ml and the mixture was extracted with chloroform 20.0 ml . The extract was washed with water, dried over magnesium sulfate and evaporated in vacuo. The residue was recrystallized from a mixture of methanol and acetone to give 4 3 indolyl 1 4 oxo 3 thiazolidinyl acetyl piperidine 0.92 g as slightly brown prisms. Thionyl chloride 1.82 ml was added dropwise to a solution of 4 oxo 3 thiazolidinylacetic acid 1.45 g in a mixture of dichloromethane 18.2 ml and tetrahydrofuran 5.00 ml at room temperature. After the mixture was stirred for 5 hours, the solvent was evaporated in vacuo to give brown semisolid. A solution of the semisolid in tetrahydrofuran 5.00 ml was added dropwise to a mixture of 1 4 fluorophenylsulfonyl piperazine 2.00 g and triethylamine 2.49 ml in tetrahydrofuran 10.0 ml at 0 C with stirring. The mixture was allowed to stir at that temperature further 1 hour. After the solvent was evaporated in vacuo, the residue was mixed with ethyl acetate 15.0 ml and water 15.0 ml . The resultant insoluble product was collected by filtration and recrystallized from a mixture of acetone and methanol to give 1 4 oxo 3 thiazolidinyl acetyl 4 4 fluoro phenylsulfonyl piperazine as slightly brown needles. The following compounds were prepared in a similar manner to that of Example 1. The following compounds were prepared in a similar manner to that of Example 5. Sodium hydride 60 dispersion in mineral oil 0.58 g was added portionwise to a solution of 4 oxothiazolidine 1.50 g and 4 methoxybenzenesulfonyl chloride 3.01 g in tetrahydrofuran 30 ml at 0 C with stirring and the mixture was stirred for 1 hour at the same temperature. After the solvent was evaporated in vacuo, the residue was mixed with ethyl acetate 10 ml and water 50 ml and the resultant precipitate was collected by filtration. The cake was washed with water and diisopropyl ether and recrystallized from a mixture of ethanol and ethyl acetate to give 3 4 methoxybenzenesulfonyl 4 oxothiazolidine 1.65 g as slightly brown prisms. A solution of m chloroperbenzoic acid 0.84 g in dichloromethane 15 ml was added dropwise to a solution of 1 4 oxo 3 thiazolidinyl acetyl 4 diphenylmethylpiperazine 1.45 g in dichloromethane 15 ml at 0 C with stirring. After the solution was allowed to stir for 2 hours at the same temperature, mixed with saturated aqueous sodium hydrogen carbonate 30 ml . The organic layer was separated, washed with water and dried over magnesium sulfate. The evaporated residue was recrystallized from a mixture of acetone and methanol to give 4 oxo 3 4 diphenylmethylpiperazin 1 ylcarbonylmethyl thiazolidine 1 oxide as colourless prisms. The above ingredients are blended and granulated or grained in a conventional manner into granules or small granules. A solution of potassium permanganate 0.34g in water 3.5ml was added dropwise to a solution of 1 4 oxo 3 thiazolidinyl acetyl 4 diphenyl methylpiperazine 0.5g in acetic acid 5 ml with stirring over a period of 5 minutes at 20 C and the mixture was stirred at ambient temperature for 1 hour. The resultant mixture was washed with aqueous sodium bisulfite and was extracted with chloroform 10 ml . The aqueous layer was extracted with chloroform. The combined chloroform layer was washed with water, dried over magnesium sulfate and filtered. The fltrate was evaporated in vacuo to give a solid 0.42 g . The solid was dissolved in chloroform and subjected to a columm chromatography using chloroform as an eluent. The fraction containing the object compound was evaporated in vacuo to give 4 oxo 3 4 diphenylmethylpiperazin 1 ylcarbonylmethyl thiazolidine 1, 1 dioxide 0.15 g as colourless prisms. A solution of m chloroperbenzoic acid 0.87 g in dichloromethane 10 ml was added dropwise to a solution of 1 4 oxo 3 thiazolidinyl acetyl 4 diphenylmethylpiperazine 1 g in dichloromethane 10 ml with stirring over a period of 30 minutes at 10 C and the mixture was stirred for 5.5 hours at ambient temperature. To the resultant mixture was added N,N dimethylformamide 20 ml and then the mixture was stirred overnight at the same temperature . To the resultant mixture was added in ice water 100 ml , chloroform 100 ml and aqueous sodium iodide. The chloroform layer was washed with aqueous sodium thiosulfate and brine, dried over magnesium sulfate and filtered. the filtrate was evaporated in vacuo to give an oily residue. The residue was pulverized with ether and diisopropylether to give precipitate. The precipitate was washed with diisopropyl ether and dried to give 4 oxo 3 4 diphenylmethylpiperazin 1 yl carbonylmethyl thia zolidine S,N⁴ dioxide represented by the formula To 1 4 oxo 3 thiazolidinyl acetyl 4 diphenylmethyl piperazine 1.00 g was added water 1.5 ml and 1N hydrochloric acid 3.5 ml . The mixture was vigorously stirred for 10 minutes, allowed to stand for 10 minutes at 50 C and stirred for 30 minutes at 50 C and for 24 hours at ambient temperature to precipitate crystals. The crystals was obtained by filtration and dried under reduced pressure to give monohydrochloric acid salt of 1 4 oxo 3 thiazolidi nyl acetyl 4 diphenylmethylpiperazine 0.9 g . mp 220 222 C dec. IR Nujol 1680 s , 1660 cm The following salts were obtained in a similar manner to that of the above. 1 1 2 Sulfuric acid salt of 1 4 oxo 3 thiazolidinyl acetyl 4 diphenylmethylpiperazine IR Nujol 1650 cm 2 Monohydrobromic acid salt of 1 4 oxo 3 thiazolidinyl acetyl 4 diphenylmethyl piperazine IR Nujol 1650 cm