# 8 Phenyl xanthines.

## Abstract
The present invention relates to certain novel 8 phenylxanthines substituted in the 3 or 4 position of the phenyl group by an alkenylene, alkenyleneoxy, alkynylene or alkynyleneoxy bearing a terminal acidic grouping, and to their use in human and veterinary therapy, particularly for conditions associated with the cell surface effects of adenosine.

## Claims
1. A compound of formula I wherein X₁ and X₂ are the same or different and are hydrogen, C1 6 alkyl, C2 6 alkenyl or C7 12 aralkyl optionally substituted in the aryl ring by at least one substituent selected from C1 6 alkyl, C1 6 alkoxy, hydroxy, halo, nitro, amino and cyano, provided that both X₁ and X₂ are not hydrogen one of X₃ and X₄ is hydrogen, C1 6 alkyl, trifluoromethyl, C1 6 alkoxy, halo, nitro, amino, C1 6 alkoxycarbonyl or carboxy and the other is a group Y Z where Y is C2 6 alkenylene, or C3 6 alkenyleneoxy, C2 6 alkynylene or C3 6 alkynyleneoxy and Z is carboxy, sulphonyl or phosphonyl or a C1 9 alkyl ester, a C7 12 aralkyl ester or a C6 12 aryl ester thereof, or is 5 tetrazolyl and X₅ and X₆ are the same or different and are oxygen or sulphur or a salt or solvate thereof.

## Description
The present invention relates to a class of novel xanthines and salts and solvates thereof, processes and intermediates for their preparation, pharmaceutical formulations containing them, and to their use in human and veterinary medicine. Theophylline, a naturally occurring alkaloid, is 1,3 diemethylxanthine and is known to antagonise the receptors for adenosine. Although its precise mechanism of action requires further clarification, it is believed that this property of theophylline accounts, at least to some extent, for its ability to stimulate the central nervous system and cardiac muscle, to act on the kidney to produce diuresis, and to relax smooth muscle, notably bronchial muscle A structurally distinct class of novel 8 phenylxanthines has now been discovered, which are characterised by the presence of an alkenylene, alkenyleneoxy, alkynylene or alkynyleneoxy moiety terminally substituted by an acidic grouping on the 3 or 4 position of the phenyl ring. These xanthine derivatives have been found to possess therapeutic activity in their ability to antagonise the effects of adenosine in tissue preparations. Such activity is of therapeutic value in human and veterinary medicine and in particular for those pathophysiological disorders arising from the cell surface effects of adenosine. Certain 8 phenylxanthines substituted by various groups on the pyrimidine and phenyl rings are described in UK Patent Application No. 2 135 311 A, reference being made to the adenosine antagonist activity of such compounds as measured by Accordingly, the present invention provides a compound of formula I The compounds of the invention may exist in a number of tautomeric forms and all such forms, individually and as mixtures, are embraced by the above definition of formula I even though only one tautomer is depicted for convenience. A preferred sub class of X₁ and X₂, when C Preferably, X₁ and X₂ are the same or different and are hydrogen or C Preferably, one of X₃ and X₄ is hydrogen. A preferred sub class of Y is in straight or branched chain form C Preferably, Z, when a C Examples of Z, when a C Examples of Z, when a C As used herein in relation to the definition of Z, a phosphonyl ester includes both the dibasic ester and the monobasic half ester. As used herein, 5 tetrazoyl is the group having the structural formula Included within the definition of Z is a preferred sub class, wherein Z is carboxy, sulphonyl or phosphonyl or a C Most preferably, X₃ is hydrogen and X₄ is the group Y Z where Y is vinylene and Z is carboxy. Preferably, both X₅ and X₆ are oxygen. The compounds of the present invention are capable of existing as geometric and optical isomer. All such isomers, individually and as mixtures, are included within the scope of the present invention. Compounds in the form of the E geometrical isomers, are particularly preferred. Of the compounds exemplified hereinafter, those that are preferred include Compounds 13, 14, 24 and 25 are particularly preferred. As salts of a compound of formula I , there are included acid addition salts of the compound, wherein one of X₃ and X₄ is amino, and salts comprising the compound, wherein one of X₃ and X₄ is carboxy, or wherein the other is a group Y Z where Y is as hereinbefore defined and Z is carboxy, sulphonyl or phosphonyl, as an anionic species, together with a cation. In both types of salts, the pharmacological activity resides in the moiety derived from the compound of the invention as defined herein and the identity of the other component is of less importance although for therapeutic purposes it is, preferably, pharmaceutically acceptable to the recipient of the salt. Examples of pharmaceutically acceptable acid addition salts include those derived from mineral acids, such as hydrochloric, hydrobromic, phosphoric, metaphosphoric, nitric and sulphuric acids, and organic acids, such as tartaric, acetic, citric, malic, lactic, fumaric, benzoic, glycollic, gluconic, succinic and arylsulphonic, for example p toluenesulphonic, acids. Examples of salts comprising the compound, wherein one of X₃ and X₄ is carboxy, or wherein the other is a group Y Z where Y is as hereinbefore defined and Z is carboxy, sulphonyl or phosphonyl, as an anionic species, together with a cation, include ammonium salts, alkali metal salts, such as sodium and potassium salts, alkaline earth salts, such as magnesium and calcium salts, and salts formed with organic bases, for example, amino salts derived from mono , di or tri lower alkyl or lower alkanol amines, such as treithanolamine and diethylaminoethylamine, and salts with heterocyclic amines such as piperidine, pyridine, piperazine and morphine. The pharmaceutically acceptable salts together with the salts which are not thus acceptable have utility in the isolation and or the purification of the compounds of the invention, and the unacceptable salts are also useful in being convertible to the acceptable salts by techniques well known the art. Examples of a solvate of a compound of formula I or a salt thereof include an hydrate, for example the monohydrate. The compounds of the present invention and the salts and solvates thereof may be prepared by any suitable process. In this regard, the present invention provides a first process for the preparation of a compound of formula I , as defined hereinbefore, or a salt or solvate thereof, which comprises cyclising, in the presence of an oxidant, a compound of formula II The cyclisation, in the presence of an oxidant, of a compound of Formula II may be carried out conventionally, for example, at an ambient or elevated temperature in a solvent, such as nitrobenzene. Examples of an oxidant for use in the cyclisation of a compound of formula II include nitrobenzene, oxygen with or without a palladium carbon catalyst, or ferric chloride. Of these, nitrobenzene is preferred since it can also function as the solvent in which cyclisation may be carried out. Examples of the optional conversion of X₁ or X₂ in the resulting compound of formula I into another X₁ or X₂ respectively are generally known in the art. One useful example is the optional conversion by reduction of 4 nitrobenzyl for X₂ into 4 aminobenzyl. A preferred reducing agent for such reduction is hydrogen and platinum or platinum on charcoal. Examples of the optional conversion of X₃ or X₄ in the resulting compound of formula I into another X₃ or X₄ respectively are generally known in the art. One useful example is the optional conversion by hydrolysis of the group Y Z where Y is as hereinbefore defined and Z is a C The optional formation of a salt or solvate of a compound of formula I may be carried out using techniques well known in the art. The compound of formula II may be prepared by reacting a compound of formula III The reaction between the compounds of formulae III and IV may be carried out conventionally, for example, by heating under reflux in a solvent, such as a mixture of acetic acid and methanol. It is, however, a preferred aspect of this process of the present invention that the resulting Schiff s base is not isolated but that the two stages leading to the compound of the present invention the reaction between the compounds of formulae III and IV and the cyclisation of the resulting compound of formula II are carried out in one operation in the same reaction vessel. In these circumstances, the reaction between the compounds of formulae III and IV is, preferably, carried out under reflux in nitrobenzene. The compound of formula III may be prepared by reducing a compound of formula V The reduction of the compound of formula V is, preferably, carried out with ammonium sulphide in the manner as described in U.S. Patent 2 602 795. The compound of formula V may be prepared by reacting a compound of formula VI The reaction between the compound of formula VI and nitrous acid which may be prepared Examples of the optional conversion of X₁ or X₂ into another X₁ or X₂ include the optional conversion of hydrogen into C The present invention also provides a second process for the preparation of a compound of formula I , wherein the other of X₃ and X₄ is the group Y Z where Y is C The reaction between the compounds of formulae VII and VIII may be carried out conventionally, for example, in the presence of a base, such as an alkali metal alkoxide, in particular potassium Examples of the optional conversion of X₁ or X₂ in the resulting compound of formula I into another X₁ or X₂ respectively are as described hereinbefore in relation to the corresponding optional conversions carried out on the compound of formula I resulting from the cyclisation of a compound of formula II . Examples of the optional conversion of X₃ or X₄ in the resulting compound of formula I into another X₃ or X₄ respectively are generally known in the art. An example is the optional conversion by hydrolysis of the group Y Z where Y is C The optional formation of a salt or solvate of a compound of formula I may be carried out using techniques well known in the art. It should be noted that, during the reaction between the compounds of formulae VII and VIII , a side reaction may occur at the nitrogen atom in the 7 position in the compound of formula VII . It will, therefore, be appreciated that the reagents and conditions should be chosen so as to minimise the occurrence of any such side reaction. In any case, it is preferred, for reasons of a better yield and a cleaner product, that the preparation of a compound of formula I , wherein the other of X₃ and X₄ is the group Y Z where Y is C The compound of formula VII may be prepared by reacting a compound of formula III , as defined hereinbefore, with a compound of formula IX The reaction between the compounds of formulae III and IX may be carried out analogously to the reaction between the compounds of formulae III and IV as described hereinbefore. The present invention also provides a third process for the preparation of a compound of formula I , as defined hereinbefore, or a salt or solvate thereof, which comprises cyclising a compound of formula X The cyclisation of a compound of formula X may be carried out conventionally. For example, in the case where B is hydrogen and A is 3 X₃ 4 X₄ benzoyl, the cyclisation is, preferably, carried out in the presence of aqueous base, such as aqueous sodium hydroxide, at elevated temperature, and, in the case where A is hydrogen and B is 3 X₃ 4 X₄ benzoyl, the cyclisation usually proceeds spontaneously in view of the highly nucleophilic 5 amino substituent. Examples of the optional conversion of X₁ or X₂, or X₃ or X₄ in the resulting compound of formula I into another X₁ or X₂, or X₃ or X₄ respectively are as described hereinbefore in relation to the corresponding optional conversions carried out on the compound of formula I resulting from the cyclisation of a compound of formula II . In the case where one or both of X₅ and X₆ is are oxygen, the optional conversion of one or both of X₅ and X₆ into sulphur may be carried out as described hereinbefore. The optional formation of a salt or solvate of a compound of formula I may be carried out as described hereinbefore. In this regard, it should be noted that, if the cyclisation of a compound of formula X is carried out in the presence of aqueous base, then the compound of formula I is normally obtained as the salt. The free acid of formula I can be regenerated simply by treatment of the salt with acid. The compound of formula X , wherein B is hydrogen and A is 3 X₃ 4 X₄ benzoyl, may be prepared by reacting a compound of formula III , as defined hereinbefore, with a compound of formula XI The reaction between the compounds of formulae III and XI may be carried out conventionally. For example, in the case where X₇ is hydroxy, the reaction may be carried out in the presence of a condensation promoting agent, such as dicyclohexylcarbodiimide. The compound of formula X , wherein A is hydrogen and B is 3 X₃ 4 X₄ benzoyl, may be prepared by reducing a compound of formula XII The reduction of a compound of formula XII may be carried out conventionally, for example, by catalytic hydrogenation with Raney nickel or platinum or by using ammonia sulphide as described in U.S. Patent 2 602 795. As mentioned previously, the 5 amino substituent of the resulting compound of formula X , wherein A is hydrogen and B is 3 X₃ 4 X₄ benzoyl, is highly nucleophilic with the result that the compound of formula X normally proceeds spontaneously to the desired compound of formula I . The compound of formula XII may be prepared by reacting a compound of formula V , as defined hereinbefore, with a compound of formula XI , as defined hereinbefore. The reaction between the compounds of formulae V and XI may be carried out analogously to the reaction between the compounds of formulae III and XI described hereinbefore. It should be noted that, if, in the reactions between the compounds of formulae III and XI and of formulae V and XI , the other of X₃ and X₄ in formula XI is the group Y Z where Y is as defined hereinbefore and Z is carboxy, sulphonyl or phosphonyl, then the reagents and conditions should be chosen so as to minimise the occurrence of any competing side reaction at the acidic group for Z and to maximise the desired reaction between the carboxy group or derivative thereof COX₇ depicted in formula XI and the amino substituent in the 5 position in the compound of formula III . Alternatively, the acidic group for Z may be blocked during the course of the reaction and then deblocked after its completion. Examples of preferred blocked acidic groups include C The compounds of formulae II , X and XII and a number of the compounds of formulae III , V and VII , as described hereinafter, are novel intermediates of use in the preparation of the compounds of formula I and, thus, represent part of the present invention. The compounds of formulae III and V that are novel intermediates are of formulae III ¹ and V ¹ The compounds of formula VII that are novel intermediates are of formula VII ¹ The compounds of formulae IV , VI , VIII , IX and XI are commercially available, or may be obtained by carrying out a published process for their preparation, or by carrying out a process analogous to a published process for the preparation of structurally analogous compounds. For example, the compounds of formula IV , wherein the other of X₃ and X₄ is the group Y Z where Y is C While it is possible for the compounds of the present invention and the salts and solvates thereof to be administered as the raw chemical, it is preferred to present them in the form of a pharmaceutical formulation. Accordingly, the present invention further provides a pharmaceutical formulation, for human or veterinary application, which comprises a compound of the present invention, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt or solvate thereof, and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier therefor. The pharmaceutical formulation may optionally contain other therapeutic agents that may usefully be employed in conjunction with the compound of the present invention, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt or solvate thereof. The expression pharmaceutically acceptable as used herein in relation to the carrier is used in the sense of being compatible with the compound of the present invention, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt or solvate thereof, employed in the formulation and with any other therapeutic agent that may be present, and not being detrimental to the recipient thereof. The carrier itself may constitute one or more excipients conventionally used in the art of pharmacy that enable the compound of the present invention, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt or solvate thereof, and any other therapeutic agent that may be present, to be formulated as a pharmaceutical formulation. The phamaceutical formulations of the present invention include those suitable for oral, parenteral including subcutaneous, intradermal, intramuscular and intravenous and rectal administration although the most suitable route will probably depend upon, for example, the precise nature and severity of the condition and the identity of the recipient. The formulations may conveniently be presented in unit dosage form and may be prepared by any of the methods well known in the art of pharmacy. All methods include the step of bringing into association the active ingredient, i.e. the compound of the present invention, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt or solvate thereof, with the carrier. In general the formulations are prepared by uniformly and intimately bringing into association the active ingredient with, a liquid carrier or, a finely divided solid carrier or both, and then, if necessary, forming the associated mixture into the desired formulation. The pharmaceutical formulations of the present invention suitable for oral administration may be presented as discrete units, such as a capsule, cachet tablet, or lozenge, each containing a predetermined amount of the active ingredient as a powder or granules as a solution or a suspension in an aqueous liquid or a non aqueous liquid such as a syrup, elixir or a draught or as an oil in water liquid emulsion or a water in oil liquid emulsion. The formulation may also be a bolus, electuary or paste. Generally, a tablet is the most convenient pharmaceutical formulation suitable for oral administration. A tablet may be made by compressing or moulding the tablets may be prepared by compressing in a suitable machine the active ingredient in a free flowing form, such as a powder or granules, in admixture with, for example, a binding agent, an inert diluent, a lubricating agent, a disintegrating agent and or a surface active agent. Moulded tablets may be prepared by moulding in a suitable machine a mixture of the powdered active ingredient moistened with an inert liquid diluent. The tablets may optionally be coated or scored and may be formulated so as to provide slow or controlled release of the active ingredient. The pharmaceutical formulations of the present invention suitable for parenteral administration include aqueous and non aqueous sterile injection solutions which may contain, for example, an anti oxidant, a buffer, a bacteriostat and a solute which renders the composition isotonic with the blood of the recipient, and aqueous and non aqueous sterile suspensions which may contain, for example, a suspending agent and a thickening agent. The formulations may be presented in unit dose or multi dose containers, for example sealed ampoules and vials, and may be stored in a freeze dried lyophilized condition requiring only the addition of the sterile liquid carrier, for example water for injection, immediately prior to use. Extemporaneous injection solutions and suspensions may be prepared from sterile powders, granules and tablets of the kind previously described. The pharmaceutical formulations of the present invention suitable for rectal administration may be presented as a suppository containing, for example, cocoa butter and polyethylene glycol. An advantage of the compounds of the present invention and the pharmaceutically acceptable salts and solvates thereof is that they are generally water soluble and that, therefore, they are suitable for formulation as aqueous solutions. In contrast, a number of the various substituted 8 phenylxanthines of the prior art As mentioned hereinbefore, the compounds of the present invention and the pharmaceutically acceptable salts and solvates thereof are of use in human and veterinary medicine and in particular in the treatment or prophylaxis of pathophysiological disorders arising from the cell surface effects of adenosine. Accordingly, the present invention yet further provides a method for the treatment or prophylaxis of an animal with a pathophysiological disorder arising from the cell surface effects of adenosine, which comprises administering to the animal a therapeutically or prophylactically effective amount of a compound of the present invention, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt or solvate thereof. In the alternative, there is also provided a compound of the present invention, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt or solvate thereof, for use in human or veterinary medicine and in particular for use in the treatment or prophylaxis of pathophysiological disorders arising from the cell surface effects of adenosine. The pathophysiological disorders caused by adenosine cell surface interactions and requiring treatment or prophylaxis in accordance with the present invention generally arise within the cardiovascular, gastrointestinal or neuroendocrine systems since adenosine has a particularly pronounced effect on the cell surface receptors in these systems and hence on their physiology. Particular examples of such pathophysiological disorders include heart block induced by various diagnostic procedures, such as scintography, or occurring as a result of a myocardial infarct where there is increased leakage of endogenous adenosine into the extracellular environment surrounding the heart muscle The animal requiring treatment or prophylaxis with a compound of the present invention, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt or solvate thereof, is usually a human or non human mammal. The route by which the compound of the present invention, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt or solvate thereof, is administered to the animal may be oral, parenteral including subcutaneous, intradermal, intramuscular, intravenous or rectal. If the compound of the present invention, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt or solvate thereof, is presented in the form of a pharmaceutical formulation, which, as mentioned hereinbefore, is preferred, then the actual formulation employed will of course depend on the route of administration elected by the physician or veterinarian. For example, if oral administration is preferred, then the pharmaceutical formulation employed is, preferably, one which is suitable for such a route. A therapeutically or prophylactically effective amount of a compound of the present invention, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt or solvate thereof, will depend upon a number of factors including, for example, the age and weight of the animal, the precise condition requiring treatment or prophylaxis and its severity, and the route of administration, and will ultimately be at the discretion of the attendant physician or veterinarian. However, an effective amount of a compound of the present invention for the treatment or prophylaxis of pathophysiological disorders arising from the cell surface effects of adenosine, will generally be in the range of 0.1 to 50 mg kg body weight of recipient per day, more usually in the range of 0.5 to 10mg kg body weight per day and most often in the range of 1 to 5 mg kg body weight per day. Thus, for a 70kg adult patient, the actual amount per day would most often be from 70 to 350mg and this amount may be given in a single dose per day or more usually in a number such as two, three or four of sub doses per day such that the total daily dose is the same. An effective amount of a pharmaceutically acceptable salt or solvate of a compound of the present invention may be determined as a proportion of the effective amount of the compound The compounds of the present invention and the salts and solvates thereof may also be used, in a manner known generally in the art, in the isolation and purification of adenosine receptors. The following examples and pharmacological data are provided in illustration of the present invention and should not be construed as in any way constituting a limitation thereof. 5,6 Diamino 1,3 dimethyluracil hydrate 1.70 g, 10.0 mmol and 4 formylcin namic acid 1.76 g, 10.0 mmol were refluxed in acetic acid 10 mL methanol 100 mL for 0.5 hour. 5,6 Diamino 1,3 dimethyluracil hydrate 5.11 g, 30.0 mmol and 4 formylcin namic acid 5.29g, 30.0 mmol were refluxed in nitrobenzene 500 mL . The nitrobenzene was allowed to distill slowly with water formed. Fresh nitroben zene was added to keep the volume constant. After 5 hours of reflux, the mixture was cooled and the precipitate collected 8.07 g . Recrystallization from N,N dimethylformamide water gave the monohydrate of the title compound as a pale yellow powder, identical with that of Example 1 by ¹H NMR and elemental analysis. 6 Amino 1 methyl 3 propyl 2,4 1H,3H pyrimidinedione V. Papesch and E.F. Schroeder, Following an analogous procedure to that of Example 3, the title compound was prepared with a melting point greater than 360 C. Analysis for C₁₈H₁₈N₄O₄ C,61.1 H,5.12 N,15.81. Found C,61.04 H,5.15 N,15.81. Following an analogous procedure to that of Example 3, the title compound was prepared with a melting point of greater than 300 C. Analysis for C₂₀H₁₈N₄O₄ C,63.48 H,4.80 N,14.81. Found C,63.26 H, 4.86 N,14.71. Following an analogous procedure to that of Example 3, the title compound was prepared with a melting point of 355 C dec. . Analysis for C₂₀H₂₂N₄O₄ C,62.82 H,5.80 N,14.65. Found C,62.91 H,5.84 N,14.63. Following an analogous procedure to that of Example 3, the title compound was prepared with a melting point of 300 C. Analysis for C₂₅H₁₂N₄O₄ C,57.69 H,3.87 N,17.94. Found C,57.47 H,3.90 N,17.87. Following an analogous procedure to that of Example 3, the title compound was prepared with a melting point greater than 300 C. Analysis for C₁₆H₁₄N₄O₄ C,58.89 H,4.32 N,17.17. Found C,58.64 H,4.36 N,17.24. Following an analogous procedure to that of Example 3, the title compound was prepared with a melting point greater than 300 C. Analysis for C₁₇H₁₆N₄O₄ C,59.94 H,4.74 N,16.46. Found C,59.78 H,4.76 N,16.41. Following an analogous procedure to that of Example 3, the title compound was prepared with a melting point greater than 300 C. Analysis for C₁₈H₁₈N₄O₄ C,61.01 H,5.12 N,15.81. Found C,60.85 H,5.17 N,15.74. Following an analogous procedure to that of Example 3, the title compound was prepared with a melting point greater than 300 C. Analysis for C₁₈H₁₈N₄O₄ C,61.01 H,5.12 N,15.81. Found C,60.86 H,5.16 N,15.76. Following an analogous procedure to that of Example 3, the title compound was prepared with a melting point greater that 300 C. Analysis for C₁₉H₂₀N₄O₄ C,61.95 H,5.47 N,15.21. Found C,61.99 H,5.51 N,15.19. Following an analogous procedure to that of Example 3, the title compound was prepared with a melting point greater than 300 C. Analysis for C₁₇H₁₆N₄O₄ C,60.00 H,4.74 N,16.46. Found C,59.91 H,4.77 N,16.43. Following an analogous procedure to that of Example 3, the title compound was prepared with a melting point of 350 355 C. Analysis for C₂₂H₂₆N₄O₄ C, 64.38 H,6.39 N,13,65. Found C,64.11 H,6.42 N,13.57. Following an analogous procedure to that of Example 3, the title compound was prepared with a melting point greater than 300 C. Analysis for C₂₈H₂₂N₄O₄ C,70.28 H,4.65 N,11.71. Found C, 70.04 H,4.67 N,11.63. Following an analogous procedure to that of Example 3, the title compound was prepared with a melting point greater than 300 C. Analysis for C₁₉H₂₀N₄O₄ C,61.94 H,5.47 N,15.21. Found C,61.77 H, 5.52 N,15.16. Following an analogous procedure to that of Example 3, the title compound was prepared with a melting point greater than 300 C. Analysis for C₁₉H₂₀N₄O₄ C,61.94 H,5.47 N,15.21. Found C,61.70 H,5.50 N,15.11. Following an analogous procedure to that of Example 3, the title compound was prepared with a melting point greater than 300 C. Analysis for C₂₂H₁₈N₄O₄ C,65.66 H4.51 N,13.92. Found C,65.43 H,4.60 N,13.87. Following an analogous procedure to that of Example 3, the title compound was prepared with a melting point greater than 300 C. Analysis for C₂₂H₂₆N₄O₄ C,64.37 H,6.39 N,13.65. Found C,64.23 H,6.42 N, 13.64. 5,6 Diamino 1,3 dimethyl 2 thiouracil K.R.H. Woolridge and R. Slack, A suspension of E 4 1,2,3,6 tetrahydro 2,6 dioxo 1,3 dipropyl 9 A solution of bromine 1.2 g, 7.5 mmol in glacial acetic acid 25 ml was added over 30 minutes to a suspension of the above ethyl ester 3.00 g, 7.31 mmol in glacial acetic acid 125 ml at 40 C. After stirring at room temperature overnight, the suspension was treated with bromine 0.2 ml in glacial acetic acid 25 ml , warmed at 60 C for 3 hours, and finally treated with bromine one drop . After cooling to room temperature, a small amount of solid was filtered off, and the filtrate was evaporated to dryness. The residue was triturated in 1 1 ethyl acetate ether 140 ml and filtered to yield ethyl 2,3 dibromo 3 4 1,2,3,6 tetrahydro 2,6 dioxo 1,3 dipropyl 1 A suspension of the above dibromopropionate 3.00g, 5.26 mmol in an anhydrous ethanolic solution 150 ml of potassium hydroxide 1.5 g 26 mmol was refluxed for 21 hours, then diluted over 3 hours with water 250 ml as the ethanol was allowed to evaporate. The cooled solution was treated with 1 N HCl until a precipitate formed pH 10 which was extracted with methylene chloride 100 ml . The aqueous phase was made strongly acidic with 1 N HCl. The thick precipitate was filtered and dried to yield a solid. A portion of this solid 0.65 g was recrystallised from 50 ethanol 50 ml to give the title compound as a yellow solid as the hemihydrate mp slow dec. starting at 260 C. Analysis for C₂₀H₂₀N₄O₄.5 H₂O C, 61.69 H, 5.44 N, 14.39. Found C 61.85 H, 5.38 N, 14.45. α Amino Following an analogous procedure to that of Example 22, the title compound was prepared with a melting point greater than 300 C. Analysis for C₂₃H₁₇N₅O₄ C, 64.63 H, 4.01 N, 16.38. Found C, 64.40 H, 4.04 N, 16.45. α Bromo To a refluxing solution of this solid 0.17 g, 0.60 mmol in 2 1 1 H₂O ethanol glacial acetic acid 12 ml was added a solution of sodium nitrite 0.063 g, 0.91 mmol in water 0.5 ml . After refluxing for one minute, the mixture was cooled with stirring, then filtered to give 4 6 amino 1,2,3,6 tetrahydro 1 methyl 5 nitroso 2,4 dioxo 3 pyrimidinyl methyl benzonitrile as a purple solid 0.17 g, 77 m.p. 266 dec . Analysis for C₁₃H₁₁N₅O₃ C, 54.74 H, 3.89 N, 24.55. Found C, 54.80 H, 3.91 N, 24.49. This intermediate 0.50 g, 1.7 mmol was reduced to the dianine with ammonium sulfate according to the method of V. Papesch, H. Grove, and E.F. Schroeder, U.S. Patent 2,602,795. The resulting solid 0.47 g was directly combined with 4 formylcinnamic acid 0.21 g, 1.2 mmol and refluxed in nitrobenzene 40 ml for 30 minutes with distallation of nitrobenzene and water formed total volume 12 ml . The cooled mixture was filtered and washed with ethanol togive the title compound as a pale yellow solid m.p. 300 C. Analysis for C₂₃H₁₇N₅O₄. 0.25 H₂O C, 63.95 H, 4.05 N, 16.21. Found C, 64.05 H, 4.09 N, 16.20. Following an analogous procedure to that of Example 3, the title compound was prepared with a melting point greater than 300 C. Analysis for C₂₄H₂₂N₄O₄ C, 66.97 H, 5.15 N, 13.02. Found C, 67.07 H, 5.19 N, 13.02. Following an analogous procedure to that of Example 3, the title compound was prepared with a melting point greater than 300 C. Analysis for C₂₄H₂₂N₄O₄ C, 66.97 H, 5.15 N, 13.02. Found C, 66.80 H, 5.16 N, 13.01. The ability of E 4 1,2,3,6 tetrahydro 1,3 dimethyl 2,6 dioxo 9 Male and female guinea pigs were sacrificed by a blow to the head, and their hearts were quickly removed. The heart was then hung on a retro grade aortic infusion apparatus. Physiological Krebs Henseleit solution in mM sodium chloride, 120.0, potassium chloride, 4.8, calcium chloride, 2.5, magnesium sulfate, 1.2, potassium phosphate, 1.2, pyruvic acid, 2.0, glucose, 5.5, sodium bicarbonate, 25.0, disodium EDTA 0.6, ascorbic acid, 0.3 at pH 7.4, 34.5 35.5 , gassed with 95 oxygen, 5 nitrogen, was the infusion medium. The right atrial appendage and wall containing the sino atrial pacemaker was then removed. The pulmonary artery and the mitral valve were cut. The stimulating electrode was placed on the left atrial appendage. Electrodes were appropriately placed to permit recording of the left atrial LAE and His Bundle HBE electrograms. Stimulus delay and duration were usually two milliseconds. The voltage was set at two times threshhold, or about 6 9 volts. A Grass S4 stimulator was used for stimulation. Pacing was initiated at a rate that ensured one to one capture and later was set to 2 3 Hz. Control atria His Bundle times A H intervals were obtained once the heart had stabilized. Adenosine infusion 5.0 µm, mixed in Henseleit Krebs solution was then begun for a period of five minutes. Atrio ventricular block frequently occurred at pacing frequencies of 3 Hz, so the pacing in these cases was lowered to a rate where one to one conduction was seen. This rate was in the range of 1.5 2.5 Hz. Once the A H interval had stabilized, a recording for maximum ADO effect was obtained. Infusion of varying doses of antagonist concurrent with the 5 µm ADO infusion was then begun. A Razel A 99 syringe pump was used to infuse the antagonist into the perfusate line. The antagonists were made up in 1.0 mM potassium phosphate buffer, pH 7.4, at a stock concentration of 0.2 mM. Final infusion conentration levels of the antagonists were in a range of 0.20 30.0 µm. The antagonists were infused at a given concentration for three minutes before electrogram recordings were obtained. Two antagonists were evaluated per guinea pig. A wash period of ten minutes between antagonists was done. A.V. conduction times were measured from the HBE and LAE. The AH interval was defined as the time between the beginning of the stimulus artifact and at the beginning of the His bundle spike, i.e., S H interval. Measurements were compiled for control no ADO or antagonist , ADO no antagonist , and ADO plus antagonist A A concentrations. Differences were then calculated by subtracting the control interval in question. Percentage ADO prolongation inhibition INH was calculated by subtracting the A A difference from the ADO difference, dividing by ADO difference, and multiplying by 100, thus INH ADO diff. ant. diff. ADO diff. 100. The Kd 50 was then evaluated by an Eadie Scatchard plot, where INH antagonist conc. was plotted on the ordinate and INH on the abscissa. Kd 50 was provided by the negative reciprocal of the slope. The mean Kd 50 for E 4 1,2,3,6 tetrahydro 1,3 dimethyl 2,6 dioxo 9 The compound of the invention is finely ground and dissolved in the water. The pH is adjusted to the proper value by the buffering agent, and the solution is filtered and sterilised by autoclaving before being sealed under sterile conditions in ampoules. The compound of the invention is finely ground and mixed with the melted Cocoa Butter or Wecobee Ethanol, sucrose, sodium benzoate, methylparaben, and flavouring are combined in 70 of the total batch quantity of water. Colouring and the compound of the invention are then dissolved in the remaining water, and finally the two solutions are mixed and clarified by filtration, thus affording a syrup. The compound of the invention is finely ground and intimately mixed with the powdered excipients, lactose, corn stach, potato starch and magnesium stearate. The formulation is then compressed to afford tablets. The compound of the invention is finely ground and mixed with the powdered excipients, lactose, corn starch and stearic acid, and then packed into two part, gelatin capsules. Based on studies to date, a positive correlation can be established between the ability of a compound to antagonise adenosine purine receptors and its activity in treating or preventing pathophysiological disorders arising from the cell surface effects of adenosine, such as heart block Ilea were removed from sacrificed guinea pigs and placed in organ baths containing oxygenated Krebs Henseleit buffer. After equilibration, the ilea were stimulated to contract twitch contraction using an electrical field stimulus of 0.1 Hz, .05 ms duration and maximal voltage. Under these conditions, the twitch contraction results from the release of acetylcholine. Concentration response curves to the purine agonist, 2 chloroadenosine, were determined first in the absence and then in the presence of multiple concentrations of the compounds of the invention. One concentration of each compound was used per tissue. Quantification of purine receptor antagonism was accomplished using the Schild regression technique, i.e. plots of log dose ratio 1 The compounds of the invention tested in this way and the results of each test are set forth below. These results indicate clearly that the compounds of the present invention are capable of antagonizing adenosine receptors and that they are superior in their effect than the prior art adenosine antagonist, theophylline. The compounds of the present invention are, therefore, useful in the treatment or prophylaxis of pathophysiological disorders arising from the cell surface effects of adenosine. The toxicity of a representative number of compounds of the present invention was determined by using the standard LD₅₀ test. The compounds were administered intraperitoneally to mice and the results are set forth below.