# 2,3 dihydro bicyclic pyrazolidinones.

## Abstract
2,3 Dihydro bicyclic pyrazolidinones are intermediates for bicyclic pyrazolidinone antimicrobials. The intermediates have the formula

## Claims
Claims 1. A compound of Formula I EMI43.1 wherein either R1 or R2 is hydrogen, C1 to C6 alkyl, C1 to C6 substituted alkyl, perfluoro C2 to C4 alkyl, C7 to C12 alkylaryl, C7 to C12 substituted alkyl aryl, phenyl, substituted phenyl or cyano a group of the formula CXs wherein X is fluoro, chloro, bromo or iodo a group of the formulaEMI43.2 wherein z is 0, 1 or 2 and R5 is C1 to C6 alkyl, C1 to C6 substituted alkyl, phenyl, substituted phenyl, C7 to C12 alkylaryl, C7 to C12 substituted alkyl aryl or a heterocyclic ring a group of the formula COR6 wherein R6 is hydrogen, C1 to C6 alkyl, C1 to C6 substituted alkyl, perfluoro C2 to C4 alkyl, trihalomethyl, C7 to C12 alkylaryl, C7 to C12 substituted alkyl aryl, phenyl or substituted phenyl a group of the formula COOR7 wherein R7 is hydrogen, an organic or inorganic cation, C1 to C6 alkyl, C1 to C6 substituted alkyl, C7 to C12 alkyl aryl, C7 to C12 substituted alkylaryl, phenyl, substituted phenyl, a carboxy protecting group, or a non toxic, metabolically labile ester forming group or a group of the formula CH2 S Heterocyclic ring and the other of R1 or R2 is a group of the formula COOR8 wherein R8 is hydrogen, an organic or inorganic cation, a carboxy protecting group or a non toxic, metabolicallylabile ester forming group R3 and R4 are the same or different and are hydrogen, C1 to C6 alkyl, C1 to C6 substituted alkyl, C7 to C12 alkylaryl, C7 to C12 substituted alkylaryl, phenyl, substituted phenyl or a group of the formula COOR9 wherein R9 has the same definition as R7 Y is C1 to C6 alkyl, C1 to C6 substituted alkyl, phenyl, substituted phenyl, C7 to C12 alkylaryl or C7 to C12 substituted alkylaryl or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof. 2. A compound according to claim 1, wherein either R1 or R2 is hydrogen, C1 to C6 alkyl, C1 to C6 sub stituted alkyl, perfluoro C2 to C4 alkyl, C7 to C12 alkylaryl, C7 to C12 substi tuted alkylaryl, phenyl, substituted phenyl or cyano and the other of R1 or R2 is a group of the formula COOR8. 3. A compound according to claim 1 or 2, wherein Y is phenyl or substituted phenyl. 4. A compound according to claim 1, 2 or 3, wherein R2 is hydrogen, C1 to C6 alkyl, C1 to C6 substituted alkyl, perfluoro C2 to C4 alkyl, C7 to C12 alkylaryl, C7 to C12 substituted alkylaryl, phenyl, substi tuted phenyl or cyano and R1 is a group of the formula COOR8 5. A compound according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein R1 is a group of the formula COOR8 wherein Rg is a carboxy protecting group. 6. A compound according to claim 5, whereinR2 is hydrogen. 7. A compound according to claim 6, whereinR8 is allyl and Y is 4 methylphenyl. 8. 2R,3S and 2S,3R 2 allyl carboxylate 3 p toluenesulfonyl 8 oxo 1,5 diazabicyclo 3.3.0loctane. 9. A process for preparing a compound of formula I as claimed in any one of claims I to 8 which comprises reacting an ylide of formula A EMI46.1 with an ethylene of formula B EMI47.1 wherein R1, R2, R31 R41 and Y are defined as in claim 1. AUSTRIA Claims 1. A process for preparing compound ofFormula I EMI48.1 wherein either R1 or R2 is hydrogen, C1 to C6 alkyl, C1 to C6 substituted alkyl, perfluoro C2 to C4 alkyl, C7 to C12 alkylaryl, C7 to C12 substituted alkyl aryl, phenyl, substituted phenyl or cyano a group of the formula CX3 wherein X is fluoro, chloro, bromo or iodo a group of the formulaEMI48.2 wherein z is 0, 1 or 2 and R5 is C1 to C6 alkyl, C1 to C6 substituted alkyl, phenyl, substituted phenyl, C7 to C12 alkylaryl, C7 to C12 substituted alkyl aryl or a heterocyclic ring a group of the formula COR6 wherein R6 is hydrogen, C1 to C6 alkyl, C1 to C6 substituted alkyl, perfluoro C2 to C4 alkyl, trihalomethyl, C7 to C12 alkylaryl, C7 to C12 substituted alkyl aryl, phenyl or substituted phenyl a group of the formula COOR7 wherein R7 is hydrogen, an organic or inorganic cation, C1 to C6 alkyl, C1 to C6 substituted alkyl, C7 to C12 alkyl aryl, C7 to C12 substituted alkylaryl, phenyl, substituted phenyl, a carboxy protecting group, or a non toxic, metabolically labile ester forming group or a group of the formula CH2 S Heterocyclic ring and the other of R1 or R2 is a group of the formula COOR8 which comprises reacting an ylide of formula A EMI50.1 with an ethylene of formula B EMI50.2 wherein R1, R21 R3, R4, and Y are defined above or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof. 2. A process according to claim 1, wherein either R1 or R2 is hydrogen, C1 to C6 alkyl, C1 to C6 sub stituted alkyl, perfluoro C2 to C4 alkyl, C7 to C12 alkylaryl, C7 to C12 substi tuted alkylaryl, phenyl, substituted phenyl or cyano and the other of R1 or R2 is a group of the formula COOR8. 3. A process according to claim 1 or 2, wherein Y is phenyl or substituted phenyl. 4. A process according to claim 1, 2 or 3, wherein R2 is hydrogen, C1 to C8 alkyl, C1 to C6 substituted alkyl, perfluoro C2 to C4 alkyl, C7 to C12 alkylaryl, C7 to C12 substituted alkylaryl, phenyl, substi tuted phenyl or cyano and R1 is a group of the formula COOR8. 5. A process according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein R1 is a group of the formula COOR8 wherein Rs is a carboxy protecting group. 6. A process according to claim 5, whereinR2 is hydrogen. 7. A process according to claim 6, wherein Rs is allyl and Y is 4 methylphenyl. 8. A process according to claim 1 for preparing 2R,3S and 2S,3R 2 allyl carboxylate 3 p toluene sulfonyl 8 oxo 1,5 diazabicyclo 3.3.0 octane.

## Description
2,3 DIHYDRO BICYCLIC PYRAZOLIDINONES This invention relates to certain bicyclic pyrazolidinones which have been found to have utility is the preparation of related antibiotics. Similar compounds have been described in U.K. Patent SpecificationNo. 2,128,984 as antihypertensive agents. According to the present invention there are provided compounds of Formula I EMI1.1 The ring system of compound Formula I is a l,5 diazabicyclo 3.3.O octane ring, often referred to in this specification as a saturated bicyclic pyrazolidinone . The numbering system for the ring system is denoted in Formula I. The undulating lines connecting R3 and R4 to position 4, R1 to position 2, and R2 and SO2Y to position 3 of the ring system indicate that the stereochemistry at positions 2, 3 and 4 could be independently in the R or S configuration. Furthermore, the Formula represents compounds of the invention in various percentage mixtures of the possible enantiomeric and di as tereomeric mixtures. In the above Formula I either R1 or R2 is hydrogen, C1 to C6 alkyl, C1 to 6 substituted alkyl, perfluoro C2 to C4 alkyl, C7 to C12 alkylaryl, C7 to C12 substituted alkyl aryl, phenyl, substituted phenyl or cyano a group of the formula CX3 wherein X is fluoro, chloro, bromo or iodo a group of the formulaEMI2.1 wherein Z is 0, 1 or 2 and R5 is C1 to C6 alkyl, C1 to C6 substituted alkyl, phenyl, substituted phenyl, C7 to C12 alkylaryl, C7 to C12 substituted alkylaryl or a heterocyclic ring a group of the formula COR6 wherein R6 is hydrogen, C1 to C6 alkyl,C1 to C6 substituted alkyl, perfluoro C2 to C4 alkyl, trihalomethyl, C7 to C12 alkylaryl, C7 to C12 substituted alkylaryl, phenyl or substituted phenyl a group of the formula COOR7 wherein R7 is hydrogen, an organic or inorganic cation, C1 to C6 alkyl, C1 to C6 substituted alkyl, C7 to C12 alkyl aryl, C7 to C12 substituted alkylaryl, phenyl, substituted phenyl, a carboxy protecting group, or a non toxic, meta bolically labile ester forming group or a group of the formula CH2 S Heterocyclic ring and the other of R1 or R2 is a group of the formula COOR8 wherein R8 is hydrogen, an organic or inorganic cation, a carboxy protecting group, or a non toxic, metabolically labile ester forming group and R3 and R4 are the same or different and are hydrogen, C1 to C6 alkyl, C1 to C6 substituted alkyl, C7 to C12 alkylaryl, C7 to C12 substituted alkylaryl, phenyl, substituted phenyl or a group of the formula COOR9 wherein R9 has the same definition as R7 Y is C1 to C6 alkyl, C1 to C6 substituted alkyl, phenyl, substituted phenyl, C7 to C12 alkylaryl or C7 to C12 substituted alkylaryl and a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof. In the above Formula I, the term C1 to C6 alkyl denotes such radicals as methyl, ethyl, n propyl, iso propyl, n butyl, sec butyl, tert butyl, amyl, tert amyl, hexyl and the like. The preferred C1 to C6 alkyl group is methyl. The term xCl to C6 substituted alkyl denotes the above C1 to C6 alkyl groups that are substituted by one or two halogen, hydroxy, protected hydroxy, amino, protected amino, C1 to C7 acyloxy, nitro, carboxy, protected carboxy, carbamoyl, carbamoyloxy, cyano, methylsulfonylamino or C1 to C4 alkoxy groups. The substituted alkyl groups may be substituted once or twice with the same or with different substituents. Examples of the above substituted alkyl groups include the cyanomethyl, nitromethyl, hydroxymethyl, trityloxymethyl, propionyloxymethyl, aminomethyl, carboxymethyl, allyloxycarbonylmethyl, allyloxycar bonylaminomethyl, carbamoyloxymethyl, methoxymethyl, ethoxymethyl, t butoxymethyl, acetoxymethyl, chloromethyl, bromomethyl, iodomethyl, 6 hydroxyhexyl, 2,4dichloro n butyl , 2 amino iso propyl , 2 carbamoyloxyethyl and the like. A preferred group of examples within the above C1 to C6 substituted alkyl group includes the substituted methyl group, in other words, a methyl group substituted by the same substituents as the C1 to C6 substituted alkyl group.Examples of the substituted methyl group include groups such as hydroxymethyl, protected hydroxymethyl, e.g., tetrahydropyranyloxymethyl , acetoxymethyl, carbamoyloxymethyl, chloromethyl, bromomethyl and iodomethyl. The term Ct to C4 alkoxy as used herein denotes groups such as methoxy, ethoxy, n propoxy, isopropoxy, n butoxy, t butoxy and like groups. Similarly, the term ,C1 to C7 acyloxy denotes herein groups such as formyloxy, acetoxy, propionyloxy, butyryloxy, pentanoyloxy, hexanoyloxy, heptanoyloxy, and the like. Examples of the term perfluoro C2 to C4 alkyl include perfluoroethyl, perfluoro n propyl, perfluoro iso propyl, perfluoro n butyl, perfluoro sec butyl and the like. The term substituted phenyl specifies a phenyl group substituted with one or two moieties chosen from the group consisting of halogen, hydroxy, protected hydroxy, cyano, nitro, C1 to C6 alkyl, C1 to C4 alkoxy, carboxy, protected carboxy, carboxymethyl, protected carboxymethyl, hydroxymethyl, protected hydroxymethyl, aminomethyl, protected aminomethyl, trifluoromethyl or methylsulfonylamino. Examples of the term substituted phenyl1, include a mono or di halo phenyl group such as 4chlorophenyl, 2,6 dichlorophenyl, 2,5 dichlorophenyl, 3,4 dichlorophenyl, 3 chlorophenyl, 3 bromophenyl, 4 bromophenyl, 3, 4 dibromophenyl, 3 chloro 4 fluorophenyl, 2 fluorophenyl and the like a mono or di hydroxy phenyl group such as 4 hydroxyphenyl, 3 hydroxyphenyl, 2,4 dihydroxyphenyl, the protected hydroxy derivatives thereof and the like a nitrophenyl group such as 3 or 4 nitrophenyl a cyanophenyl group, for example, 4 cyanophenyl a mono or di lower alkyl phenyl group such as 4 methylphenyl, 2,4 dimethylphenyl, 2 methylphenyl, 4 iso propyl phenyl, 4 ethylphenyl, 3 n propyl phenyl and the like a mono or di alkoxy phenyl group, for example, 2,6 dimethoxyphenyl, 4 methoxyphenyl, 3 ethoxyphenyl, 4 iso propoxy phenyl, 4 t butoxy phenyl, 3 ethoxy 4 methoxyphenyl and the like 3 or 4 trifluoromethylphenyl, a mono or dicarboxyphenyl or protected carboxy phenyl group such as 4 carboxyphenyl or 2,4 di protected carboxy phenyl, a mono or di hydroxymethyl phenyl or protected hydroxymethyl phenyl such as 3 protected hydroxymethyl phenyl or 3,4 di hydroxymethyl phenyl, a mono or di aminomethyl phenyl or protected aminomethyl phenyl such as 2 aminomethyl phenyl or 2,4 protected aminomethyl phenyl, or a mono or di methylsulfonylamino phenyl such as 3 methylsulfonylamino phenyl. Also, the term substituted phenyl represents disubstituted phenyl groups wherein the substituents are different, for example, 3 methyl 4 hydroxyphenyl, 3 chloro 4 hydroxyphenyl, 2 methoxy 4 bromophenyl, 4 ethyl 2 hydroxyphenyl, 3 hydroxy 4 nitrophenyl, 2 hydroxy 4 chlorophenyl and the like. Preferred substituted phenyl groups include the 2 and 3 trifluoromethylphenyl, the 4 hydroxyphenyl, the 2 aminomethylphenyl and the 3 methylsulfonylamino phenyl groups. The terms halo and halogen 1 refer to fluoro, chloro, bromo or iodo The term trihalomethyl denotes trifluoromethyl, trichloromethyl, tribromomethyl or triiodomethyl. The term C7 to C12 alkylaryl denotes a C1 toC6 alkyl group substituted at any position by a phenyl ring. Examples of such a group include phenylmethyl benzyl , 2 phenylethyl, 3 phenyl n propyl , 4 phenylhexyl, 3 phenyl n amyl , 3 phenyl sec butyl and the like. A preferred group is the benzyl group. The term llC7 to C12 substituted alkylaryl denotes a C7 to C12 substituted alkylaryl group substituted on the C1 to C6 alkyl portion with one or two groups chosen from halogen, hydroxy, protected hydroxy, amino, protected amino, C1 to C7 acyloxy, nitro, carboxy, protected carboxy, carbamoyl, carbamoyloxy, cyano, methylsulfonylamino or C1 to C4 alkoxy and or the phenyl group may be substituted with 1 or 2 groups chosen from halogen, hydroxy, protected hydroxy, nitro,C1 to C6 alkyl, C1 to C4 alkoxy, carboxy, protected carboxy, carboxymethyl, protected carboxymethyl, hydroxymethyl, protected hydroxymethyl, aminomethyl, protected aminomethyl, or a methylsulfonylamino group.As before, when either the C1 to C6 alkyl portion or the phenyl portion or both are disubstituted, the substituents can be the same or different. Examples of the term C7 to C12 substituted alkylaryl include groups such as 2 phenyl l chloroethyl, 2 4 methoxyphenyl ethyl, 2,6 dihydroxy 4 phenyl nhexyl , 5 cyano 3 methoxy 2 phenyl n pentyl , 3 2,6 dimethylphenyl n propyl, 4 chloro 3 aminobenzyl, 6 4 methoxyphenyl 3 carboxy n hexyl , 5 4 aminomethyl phenyl 3 aminomethyl n pentyl , and the like. The term organic or inorganic cation refers to counter ions for the carboxylate anion of a carboxylate salt. The counter ions are chosen from the alkali and alkaline earth metals, such as lithium, sodium, potassium, barium and calcium ammonium and organic cations such as dibenzylammonium, benzyl ammonium, 2 hydroxyethylammonium, bis 2 hydroxyethyl ammonium, phenylethylbenzylammonium, dibenzylethylenediammonium, and like cations. Other cations encompassed by the above term include the protonated form of procaine, quinine and N methylglucosamine, and the protonated forms of basic amino acids such as glycine, ornithine, histidine, phenylglycine, lysine and arginine. Furthermore, any zwitterionic form of the instant compounds formed by a carboxylic acid and an amine group is referred to by this term.A preferred cation for the carboxylate anion is the sodium cation. The term pharmaceutically acceptable salt encompasses those salts that form with the carboxylate anions and includes the organic and inorganic cations discussed above. Furthermore, the term includes salts that form by standard acid base reactions with basic groups such as amino groups and organic or inorganic acids. Such acids include hydrochloric, sulfuric, phosphoric, acetic, succinic, citric, lactic, maleic, fumaric, palmitic, cholic, pamoic, mucic, D glutamic, d camphorc, glutaric, phthalic, tartaric, lauric, stearic, salicyclic, methanesulfonic, benzenesulfonic, sorbic, picric, benzoic, cinnamic and like acids. The compounds of Formula I may also exist as solvates and hydrates. Thus, the compounds may crystallize with, for example, waters of hydration, or one, a number of, or any fraction thereof of molecules of the mother liquor solvent. The solvates and hydrates of such compounds are included within the scope of this invention. The terms carboxy protecting group and protected carboxy as used in the specification refer to one of the ester derivatives of the carboxylic acid group commonly employed to block or protect the carboxylic acid group while reactions are carried. out on other functional groups on the compound. Examples of such carboxylic acid protecting groups include 4 nitrobenzyl, 4 methoxybenzyl, 3,4 dimethoxybenzyl, 2,4 dimethoxybenzyl, 2,4,6 trimethoxybenzyl, 2,4, 6 trimethylbenzyl, pentamethylbenzyl, 3,4 methylene dioxybenzyl, benzhydryl, 4,4 dimethoxybenzhydryl, 2,2 ,4,4 tetramethoxy benzhydryl, t butyl, t amyl, trityl, 4 methoxytrityl, 4,4 dimethoxytrityl, 4,4 ,4 trimethoxytrityl, 2phenylprop 2 yl, trimethylsilyl, t butyldimethylsilyl, phenacyl, 2,2,2 trichloroethyl, p trimethylsilyl ethyl, ss di n butyl methylsilyl ethyl, p toluenesulfonylethyl, 4 nitrobenzylsulfonylethyl, allyl, cinnamyl, l trimethylsilylmethyl prop l en 3 yl, and like moieties.The species of carboxy protecting group employed is not critical so long as the derivatized carboxylic acid is stable to the condition of subsequent reaction s on other positions of the saturated bicyclic pyrazolidinone intermediates or the unsaturated bicyclic pyrazolidinone final products and can be removed at the appropriate point without disrupting the remainder of the intermediate or final product molecule.In particular, it is important not to subject the carboxy protected saturated bicyclic pyrazolidinone intermediates or the unsaturated bicyclic pyrazolidinone final products to strong nucleophilic bases or reductive conditions employing highly activated metal catalysts such as Raney nickel. Such harsh removal conditions are also to be avoided when removing amino protecting groups and hydroxy protecting groups, discussed below. A preferred carboxylic acid protecting group is the allyl group. Similar carboxyprotecting groups used in the cephalosporin, penicillin and peptide arts can also be used to protect a carboxy group substituents of the bicyclic pyrazolidinones. Further examples of these groups are found in E. Haslam, Protective Groups in Organic Chemistry J.G.W. McOmie,Ed., Plenum Press, New York, N.Y., 1973, Chapter 5, andT.W. Greene, Protective Groups in Organic Synthesis ,John Wiley and Sons, New York, N.Y., 1981, Chapter 5. The terms protected hydroxy and hydroxyprotecting group refer to readily cleavable groups bonded to hydroxyl groups, such as the tetrahydropyranyl, 2 methoxyprop 2 yl, l ethoxyeth l yl, methoxymethyl, methoxyethoxymethyl, methylthiomethyl, t butyl, t amyl, trityl, 4 methoxytrityl, 4,4 dimethoxytrityl, 4,4l,4 trimethoxytrityl, benzyl, allyl, trimethylsilyl, t butyl dimethylsilyl and 2,2,2 trichloroethoxycarbonyl groups and the like. The species of hydroxy protecting groups is not critical so long as the derivatized hydroxyl group is stable to the conditions of subsequent reaction s and can be removed at the appropriate point without disrupting the remainder of the saturated bicyclic pyrazolidinone intermediates or the bicyclic pyrazolidinone final products. Further examples of hydroxy protecting groups are described by C.B. Reese and E. Haslam, ProtectiveGroups in Organic Chemistry , J.G.W. McOmie, Ed., PlenumPress, New York, N.Y., 1973, Chapters 3 and 4, respectively, and T.W. Greene, Protective Groups in Organic Synthesis , John Wiley and Sons, New York, N.Y., 1981,Chapters 2 and 3. Some preferred hydroxy protecting groups are the trityl group and the tetrahydropyranyl group. The terms amino protecting group and protected amino as used in the specification refer to substituents of the amino group commonly employed to block or protect the amino functionality while carrying out reactions at other functional groups on the compound. Examples of such amino protecting groups include the formyl group, the trityl group, the phthalimido group, the trichloroacetyl group, the chloroacetyl, bromoacetyl and iodoacetyl groups, urethane type blocking groups such as benzyloxycarbonyl, 4 phenylbenzyloxycarbonyl, 2 methylbenzyloxycarbonyl, 4 methoxybenzyloxycarbonyl, 4 fluorobenzyloxycarbonyl, 4 chlorobenzyloxycarbonyl, 3 chlorobenzyloxycarbonyl, 2 chlorobenzyloxycarbonyl, 2,4 dichlorobenzyloxycarbonyl, 4 bromobenzyloxycarbonyl, 3 bromobenzyloxycarbonyl, 4 nitrobenzyloxycarbonyl, 4 cyanobenzyloxycarbonyl, 2 4 xenyl iso propoxycarbonyl, l,1 diphenyleth 1 yloxycarbonyl, 1,1 diphenylprop 1 yloxycarbonyl, 2phenylprop 2 yloxycarbonyl, 2 p toluyl prop 2 yloxy carbonyl, cyclopentanyloxycarbonyl, 1 methylcyclopentanyloxycarbonyl, cyclohexanyloxycarbonyl, l methyl cychexanyloxycarbonyl, 2 methylcyclohexanyloxycarbonyl, 2 4 toluylsulfonyl ethoxycarbonyl, 2 methylsulfonyl ethoxycarbonyl, 2 triphenylphosphino ethoxycarbonyl, 9 fluorenylmethoxycarbonyl FMOC , 2 trimethylsilyl ethoxycarbonyl, allyloxycarbonyl, l trimethylsilyl methyl prop l enyloxycarbonyl, 5 benzisoxalylmethoxycarbonyl, 4 acetoxybenzyloxycarbonyl, 2,2,2 trichloroethoxycarbonyl, 2 ethynyl 2 propoxycarbonyl, cyclopropylmethoxycarbonyl, 4 decyloxy benzyloxycarbonyl, isobornyloxycarbonyl, 1 piperidyloxycarbonyl and the like, the benzoylmethylsulfonyl group, the 2 nitro phenylsulfenyl group, the diphenylphosphine oxide group and like amino protecting groups. The species of amino protecting group employed is not critical so long as the derivatized amino group is stable to the condition of subsequent reactions on other positions of the saturated bicyclic pyrazolidinone intermediates and the unsaturated bicyclic pyrazolidinone final products and can be removed at the appropriate point without disrupting the remainder of the molecule. Preferred amino protecting groups are the allyloxycarbonyl, the t butoxycarbonyl and the trityl groups. Similar aminoprotecting groups used in the cephalosporin, penicillin and peptide art are also embraced by the above terms.Further examples of groups referred to by the above terms are described by J.W. Barton, Protective GroupsIn Organic Chemistry , J.G.W. McOmie, Ed., Plenum Press,New York, N.Y., 1973, Chapter 2, and T.W. Greene, Protective Groups in Organic Synthesis , John Wiley andSons, New York, N.Y., 1981, Chapter 7. The term non toxic, metabolically labile ester forming group refers to those biologically active ester forms which induce increased blood levels and prolong the efficacy of the corresponding non esterified forms of the compounds. Such ester groups include the lower alkoxymethyl groups, for example, methoxymethyl, ethoxymethyl, iso propoxymethyl and the like the an 61 to C4 alkoxyethyl groups, for example methoxyethyl, ethoxyethyl, propoxyethyl, iso propoxyethyl, and the like the 2 oxo 1,3 dioxolen 4 ylmethyl groups, such as 5 methyl 2 oxo 1,3 dioxolen 4 ylmethyl, 5 phenyl 2 oxo1,3 dioxolen 4 ylmethyl, and the like the C1 to C3 alkylthiomethyl groups, for example methylthiomethyl, ethylthiomethyl, iso propylthiomethyl, and the like the acyloxymethyl groups, for example pivaloyloxymethyl, a acetoxymethyl, and the like the ethoxycarbonyl lmethyl group the a acyloxy a substituted methyl groups, for example a acetoxyethyl, the 3 phthalidyl or 5,6dimethylphthalidyl groups, the l C1 to C4 alkyloxycarbonyloxy eth l yl groups such as the l ethoxycarbonyloxy eth l yl group and the l C1 to C4 alkylaminocarbonyloxy eth l yl groups such as the l methylaminocarbonyloxy eth l yl group. The term heterocyclic ring denotes optionally substituted five membered or six membered rings that have 1 to 4 heteroatoms, such as oxygen, sulfur and or nitrogen, in particular nitrogen, either alone or in conjunction with sulfur or oxygen ring atoms. These five membered or six membered rings may be fully unsaturated or partially unsaturated, with fully unsaturated rings being preferred. Furthermore, the above optionally substituted five membered or six membered rings can optionally be fused to a aromatic 5 membered or 6 membered ring system. For example, the rings can be optionally fused to an aromatic 5 membered or 6 membered ring system such as a pyridine or a triazole system, and preferably to a benzene ring. The following ring systems are examples of the heterocyclic whether substituted or unsubstituted radicals denoted by the term heterocyclic ring thienyl, furyl, pyrrolyl, imidazolyl, pyrazolyl, thiazolyl, isothiazolyl, oxazolyl, isoxazolyl, triazolyl, thiadiazolyl, oxadiazolyl, tetrazolyl, thiatriazolyl, oxatriazolyl, pyridyl, pyrimidyl, pyrazinyl, pyridazinyl, thiazinyl, oxazinyl, triazinyl, thiadiazinyl, oxadiazinyl, dithiazinyl, dioxazinyl, oxathiazinyl, tetrazinyl, thiatriazinyl, oxatriazinyl, dithiadiazinyl, imidazolinyl, dihydropyrimidyl, tetrahydropyrimidyl, tetrazolo 1,5 b pyridazinyl and purinyl, as well as benzo fused derivatives, for example benzoxazolyl, benzthiazolyl, benzimidazolyl and indolyl. A preferredgroup of examples of the above heterocyclic rings, when R1 or R2 is a heterocyclic thiomethyl group, are 5 membered ring systems containing a sulfur or oxygen atom and one to three nitrogen atoms.Examples of such preferred groups include thiazolyl, in particular thiazol 2 yl and thiazol 2 yl N oxide, thiadiazolyl, in particular l,3,4 thiadiazol 5 yl and 1,2,4thiadiazol 5 yl, oxazolyl, preferably oxazol 2 yl, and oxadiazolyl, such as 1,3,4 oxadiazol 5 yl and 1,2,4oxadiazol 5 yl. A group of further preferred examples of 5 membered ring systems with 2 to 4 nitrogen atoms include imidazolyl, preferably imidazol 2 yl, triazolyl, preferably 1,3,4 triazol 5 yl, 1,2,3 triazol 5 yl and 1,2,4 triazol 5 yl, and tetrazolyl, preferably lH tetrazol 5 yl. A preferred group of examples of benzo fused derivatives are, in particular, benzoxazol 2 yl, benzthiazol 2 yl, benzimidazol 2 yl and indol 2 yl. Further specific examples of the above heterocyclic ring systems forming part of a heterocyclic thiomethyl group are 6 membered ring systems containing one to three nitrogen atoms. Such examples include pyridyl, such as pyrid 2 yl, pyrid 3 yl and pyrid 4 yl, pyrimidyl, preferably pyrimid 2 yl and pyrimid 4 yl, triazinyl, preferably 1,3,4 triazin 2 yl and 1,3,5triazin 4 yl, pyridazinyl, in particular pyridazin 3 yl, and pyrazinyl. The pyridyl, pyrimid 2 yl, pyrimid 4 yl, pyridazinyl and the l,3,4 triazin 2 yl radicals, the pyridine N oxides and pyridazine N oxides, are a preferred group. The substituents for the optionally substituted heterocyclic ring systems, and further examples of the 5 and 6 membered ring systems discussed above, are found in W. Dtirckheimer et al., U.S. Patent No. 4,278,793, issued July 14, 1981, columns 9 through 21 and columns 33 through 188, herein incorporated by reference. In columns 33 through 188, the substituents under the heading A are examples of heterocyclic rings when the ring is a part of heterocyclic thiomethyl group. A particularly preferred group of examples of the term heterocyclic ring , when the ring is part of a heterocyclic thiomethyl group, is 1,3 thiazol 2 yl, 4 carboxymethyl 5 methyl 1,3 thiazol 2 yl, 4 carboxymethyl 5 methyl 1,3 thiazol 2 yl sodium salt, 1,2,4thiadiazol 5 yl, 3 methyl I, 2, 4 thiadiazol 5 yl, 1,3,4 triazol 5 yl, 2 methyl 1,3,4 triazol 5 yl, 2hydroxy 1,3,4 triazol 5 yl, 2 carboxy 4 methyl 1,3,4triazol 5 yl sodium salt, 2 carboxy 4 methyl l,3,4triazol 5 yl, l,3 oxazol 2 yl, 1,3,4 oxadiazol 5 yl, 2 methyl 1,3,4 oxadiazol 5 yl, 2 hydroxymethyl l,3,4oxadiazol 5 yl, 1,2,4 oxadiazol 5 yl, 1,3,4 thiadiazol5 yl, 2 methyl 1,3,4 thiadiazol 5 yl, 2 thiol 1,3,4thiadiazol 5 yl, 2 methylthio 1,3, 4 thiadiazol 5 yl, 2 amino 1,3,4 thiadiazol 5 yl, lH tetrazol 5 yl, 1methyl lH tetrazol 5 yl, 1 1 dimethylamino eth 2 yl lH tetrazol 5 yl, l carboxymethyl lH tetrazol 5 yl, 1 carboxymethyl 1H tetrazol 5 yl sodium salt, 1 methylsulfonic acid 1H tetrazol 5 yl, 1 methylsulfonic acid lH tetrazol 5 yl sodium salt, 2 methyllH tetrazol 5 yl, 1,2,3 triazol 5 yl, 1 methyl 1,2,3 triazol 5 yl, 2 methyl 1,2,3 triazol 5 yl, 4 methyl1,2,3 triazol 5 yl, pyrid 2 yl N oxide, 6 methoxy 2 N oxide pyridaz 3 yl, 6 hydroxypyridaz 3 yl, 1 methylpyrid 2 yl, l methylpyrid 4 yl, 2 hydroxypyrimid 4 yl, 1,4,5,6 tetrahydro 5,6 dioxo 4 methyl as triazin 3 yl, 1,4,5,6 tetrahydro 4 formylmethyl 5,6 dioxo as tria zin 3 yl, 2, 5 dihydro 5 oxo 6 hydroxy as triazin 3 yl, 2, 5 dihydro 5 oxo 6 hydroxy as triazin 3 yl sodium salt, 2,5 dihydro 5 oxo 6 hydroxy 2 methyl as triazin 3 yl sodium salt, 2,5 dihydro 5 oxo 6 hydroxy 2 methyl astriazin 3 yl, 2, 5 dihydro 5 oxo 6 methoxy 2 methyl as triazin 3 yl, 2,5 dihydro 5 oxo as triazin 3 yl, 2,5dihydro 5 oxo 2 methyl as triazin 3 yl, 2,5 dihydro 5oxo 2,6 dimethyl as triazin 3 yl, tetrazolot1,5 b pyridazin 6 yl, and 8 aminotetrazolo 1, 5 b pyridazin 6 yl. A most preferred group of examples of the term heterocyclic ring when the term is used in conjunction with a heterocyclic thiomethyl group are 4 carboxymethyl 5 methyl 1,3 thiazol 2 yl, 4 carboxymethyl 5 methyl 1,3 thiazol 2 yl sodium salt, 1,3,4 triazol5 yl, 2 methyl 1,3,4 triazol 5 yl, lH tetrazol 5 yl, l methyl lH tetrazol 5 yl, l 1 dimethylamino eth 2 yl lH tetrazol 5 yl, l carboxymethyl lH tetrazol 5 yl, l carboxymethyl lH tetrazol 5 yl sodium salt, l methylsulfonic acid lH tetrazol 5 yl, l methylsulfonic acid lH tetrazol 5 yl sodium salt, 1,2,3triazol 5 yl, 1,4,5,6 tetrahydro 5,6 dioxo 4 methyl as triazin 3 yl, 1,4,5,6 tetrahydro 4 2 formylmethyl 5,6 dioxo as triazin 3 yl, 2,5 dihydro 5 oxo 6 hydroxy 2 methyl as triazin 3 yl sodium salt, 2,5 dihydro 5 oxo6 hydroxy 2 methyl as triazin 3 yl, tetrazolo 1,5 b pyridazin 6 yl, and 8 aminotetrazolo 1,5 b pyridazin 6 yl. In the above Formula I, when R1 or R2 is a group of the formulaEMI18.1 wherein R5 is a heterocyclic group, examples of such groups are 1,3 thiazol 2 ylthio, 4 carboxymethyl 5 methyl l, 3 thiazol 2 ylthio, 4 carboxymethyl 5 methyl 1,3 thiazol 2 ylthio sodium salt, 1,2,4 thiadiazol 5ylthio, 3 methyl 1,2,4 thiadiazol 5 ylthio, 1,3 ,4 tria zol 5 ylthio, 2 methyl 1,3,4 triazol 5 ylthio, 2 hydroxy 1,3,4 triazol 5 ylthio, 2 carboxy 4 methyl1,3,4 triazol 5 ylthio sodium salt, 2 carboxy 4methyl 1,3,4 triazol 5 ylthio, 1,3 oxazol 2 ylthio, 1,3,4 oxadiazol 5 ylthio, 2 methyl 1,3,4 oxadiazol 5ylthio, 2 hydroxymethyl 1,3, 4 oxadiazol 5 ylthio, 1,2,4 oxadiazol 5 ylthio, 1,2,4 oxadiazol 5 ylthio, 1,3,4 thiadiazol 5 ylthio, 2 methyl 1,3,4 thiadiazol5 ylthio, 2 thiol 1,3,4 thiadiazol 5 ylthio, 2 methylthio 1,3,4 thiadiazol 5 ylthio, 2 amino 1,3,4 thiadiazol 5 ylthio, lH tetrazol 5 ylthio, l methyl lH tetra zol 5 ylthio, 1 1 dimethylamino eth 2 ylthio 1Htetrazol 5 ylthio, 1 carboxymethyl 1H tetrazol 5ylthio, 1 carboxymethyl 1H tetrazol 5 ylthio sodium salt, l methylsulfonic acid lH tetrazol 5 ylthio, 1 methylsulfonic acid 1H tetrazol 5 ylthio sodium salt, 2 methyl lH tetrazol 5 ylthio, 1,2,3 triazol 5ylthio, l methyl 1,2,3 triazol 5 ylthio, 2 methyl 1,2,3 triazol 5 ylthio, 4 methyl l, 2, 3 triazol 5 ylthio, pyrid 2 ylthio N oxide, 6 methoxy 2 N oxide pyridaz3 ylthio, 6 hydroxypyridaz 3 ylthio, l methylpyrid 2 yl thio, l methylpyrid 4 ylthio, 2 hydroxypyrimid 4 ylthio, 1,4,5,6 tetrahydro 5,6 dioxo 4 methyl as triazin 3 ylthio, 1,4,5,6 tetrahydro 4 2 formylmethyl 5,6 dioXo as triazin 3 ylthio, 2,5 dihydro 5 oxo 6 hydroxy astriazin 3 ylthio, 2,5 dihydro 5 oxo 6 hydroxy as triazin3 ylthio sodium salt, 2,5 dihydro 5 oxo 6 hydroxy 2methyl as triazin 3 ylthio sodium salt, 2,5 dihydro 5oxo 6 hydroxy 2 methyl as triazin 3 ylthio, 2, 5 dihydro 5 oxo 6 methoxy 2 methyl as triazin 3 ylthio, 2,5dihydro 5 oxo as triazin 3 ylthio, 2,5 dihydro 5 oxo2 methyl as triazin 3 ylthio, 2,5 dihydro 5 oxo 2,6dimethyl as triazin 3 ylthio, tetrazolo 1, 5 b pyridazin 6 ylthio, and 8 aminotetrazolo 1, 5 b pyridazin 6 ylthio the corresponding sulfoxides and sulfones of the above heterocyclic thio groups, and the like. Examples of the above group when R5 is other than a heterocyclic group include C1 to C6 alkylthio groups such as methylthio, ethylthio, sec butyl thio, t amyl thio and n hexyl thio, C7 to C12 alkylphenylthio groups such as 2 phenylpropylthio, benzylthio, 1 phenyl n amyl thio and 4 phenyl n butyl thio C1 to C6 substituted alkylthio groups such as cyanomethylthio, 2 hydroxyethylthio, 2 nitropropylthio, 2 carbamoyl sec butyl thio, 5 chloroamylthio, 4 carboxyamylthio, 6 carbamoyloxyhexyl thio, 2 methoxyethylthio, isopropoxy t butyl thio, 2 aminoethylthio, 2, 5 dihydroxyamylthio, 3,3 dibromo nbutyl thio, 3 chloro 2 iodopropylthio and 4 acetoxy 6 fluorohexylthio C7 to C12 substituted alkylphenylthio groups such as 3 3,4 diiodophenyl propylthio, 1 3 chloro 4 fluorophenyl ethylthio, 6 4 cyanophenyl hexylthio, 3 phenyl l chloro sec butyl thio, 2 phenyl2 hydroxyethylthio, 5 phenyl 2 hydroxyamylthio, 2 3nitrophenyl 3 ethoxypropylthio, 5,6 dihydroxy 2 4 ethyl 2 hydroxyphenyl hexylthio and 5 carbamoyl 3nitro 2 2,4 dimethoxyphenyl amylthio phenylthio, and substituted phenyl thio groups, and the corresponding sulfoxide and sulfone analogs thereof. Examples of the substituted phenyl thio groups represented by R5 include groups such as 4 chlorophenylthio, 2,6 dichlorophenylthio, 2,5 dichlorophenylthio, 3 ,4 dichlorophenylthio, 3 chlorophenylthio, 3 bromophenylthio, 4 bromophenylthio, 3,4 dibromophenylthio, 3 chloro 4 fluorophenylthio, 2 fluorophenylthio, 4 hydroxyphenylthio, 3 hydroxyphenylthio, 2,4 dihydroxyphenylthio, 3 or 4 nitrophenylthio, 4 cyanophenylthio, 4 methylphenylthio, 2,4 dimethylphenylthio, 2 methylphenylthio, 4 iso propyl phenylthio, 4 ethylphenylthio, 3 n propyl phenylthio, 2, 6 dimethoxyphenylthio, 4methoxyphenylthio, 3 ethoxyphenylthio, 4 iso propoxy phenylthio, 4 t butoxy phenylthio, 3 ethoxy 4 methoxy phenylthio, a 3 or 4 trifluoromethyl phenylthio, 4 carboxyphenylthio, 2,4 di protected carboxy phenylthio, 3 protected hydroxymethyl phenylthio, 3,4 di hydroxymethyl phenylthio, 2 aminomethyl phenylthio, 2,4 di protected aminomethyl phenylthio, 3 methylsulfonylamino phenylthio, 3 methyl 4 hydroxyphenylthio, 3 chloro 4 hydroxyphenylthio, 2 methoxy 4 bromophenyl thio, 4 ethyl 2 hydroxyphenylthio, 3 hydroxy 4 nitrophenylthio, 2 hydroxy 4 chlorophenylthio and the corresponding sulfoxide and sulfone analogs thereof. A preferred group of examples of the groupEMI21.1 include 4 carboxymethyl 5 methyl 1,3 thiazol 2 ylthio, 4 carboxymethyl 5 methyl 1,3 thiazol 2 ylthio sodium salt, 1,3,4 triazol 5 ylthio, 2 methyl l,3,4 triazol 5 ylthio, lH tetrazol 5 ylthio, l methyl lH tetrazol 5 ylthio, l l dimethylamino eth 2 ylthio lH tetrazol5 ylthio, l carboxymethyl lH tetrazol 5 ylthio, l carboxymethyl lH tetrazol 5 ylthio sodium salt, l methylsulfonic acid lH tetrazol 5 ylthio, l methylsulfonic acid lH tetrazol 5 ylthio sodium salt, 1,2,3triazol 5 ylthio, 1,4,5,6 tetrahydro 5,6 dioxo 4 methyl as triazin 3 ylthio, 1,4,5,6 tetrahydro 4 formylmethyl 5,6 dioxo as triazin 3 ylthio, 2,5 dihydro 5 oxo 6 hydroxy 2 methyl as triazin 3 ylthio sodium salt, 2,5 dihydro 5 oxo 6 hydroxy 2 methyl as triazin 3 ylthio, tetrazolo l,5 b pyridazin 6 ylthio, 8 aminotetrazolo 1, 5 b pyridazin 6 ylthio, methylthio, ethylthio, phenylthio, phenylsulfonyl, methylsulfonyl, methylsulfoxide, and phenylsulfoxide. In the above Formula I, R1 or R2 can be an acyl group of the formula COR6 Examples of such a group include when R6 is hydrogen the formyl group C1 to C6 alkyl, such as acetyl, sec butylcarbonyl, t amylcarbonyl and the like C1 to C6 substituted alkyl, such as 3 cyanopropyl carbonyl, 4,5 dichloroamylcarbonyl, 2 carboxy l nitroethylcarbonyl and the like phenyl the benzoyl group substituted phenyl, for example, 4 methoxybenzoyl, 2,4 dimethyl berizoyl, 3 nitrobenzoyl, 4 trifluoromethylbenzoyl, 2,4 di alkyloxycarbonyl benzoyl, 2 aminomethyl benzoyl, 3 hydroxy 4 nitrobenzoyl, and the like C7 to C12 alkylaryl, such phenylmethylcarbonyl, 2 phenylethylcarbonyl, phenyl t butyl carbonyl, 3 phenylamylcarbonyl and the like trihalomethyl, such as trifluoroacetyl, trichloroacetyl, tribromoacetyl or triiodoacetyl C7 to C12 substituted alkylaryl, such as 3 3,4 diiodo phenyl propylcarbonyl, 1 3 chloro 4 fluorophenyl ethyl carbonyl, 6 4 cyanophenyl hexylcarbonyl, 3 phenyl l chloro sec butyl carbonyl, 2 phenyl 2 hydroxyethylcarbonyl, 5 phenyl 2 hydroxyamylcarbonyl, 2 3 nitrophenyl 3 ethoxypropylcarbonyl, 5,6 dihydroxy 2 4ethyl 2 hydroxyphenyl hexylcarbonyl, 5 carbamoyl 3nitro 2 2,4 dimethoxypheny amycarbonyl and the like or perfluoro C2 to C4 alkyl, such as perfluoropropionyl, perfluorobutyryl, perfluoropentanoyl, and the like. A preferred group of examples of the acyl group formed with R6 iS the acetyl, benzoyl, trifluoroacetyl, trichloroacetyl, tribromoacetyl, and triiodoacetyl groups. When R1 or R2 in the above Formula I is a carboxyl group of the formula COOR7 examples include groups when R7 is C1 to C6 alkyl, such as ethoxycarbonyl, sec butoxycarbonyl, t amyloxycarbonyl and the like C1 to C6 substituted alkyl, such as 3 cyanopropyloxy carbonyl, 4,5 dichloroamyloxycarbonyl, 2 carboxy l nitroethoxycarbonyl and the like phenyl the phenoxycarbonyl group substituted phenyl, for example, 4 methoxyphenoxycarbonyl, 2, 4 dimethylphenoxy carbonyl, 3 nitrophenoxycarbonyl, 4 trifluoromethylphenoxycarbonyl, 2,4 di methoxycarbonyl phenoxycarbonyl, 2 aminomethyl phenoxycarbonyl, 3 hydroxy 4 nitrophenoxycarbonyl, and the like C7 to C12 alkylaryl, such benzyloxycarbonyl, 2 phenylethoxycarbonyl, phenyl t butoxy carbonyl, 3 phenylamyloxycarbonyl and the like trihalomethyl, such as trifluoromethoxycarbonyl, trichloromethoxycarbonyl, tribromomethoxycarbonyl or triiodomethoxycarbonyl or C7 to C12 substituted alkylaryl, such as 3 3,4 diiodophenyl propoxycarbonyl, 1 3 chloro 4 fluorophenyl ethoxycarbonyl, 6 4 cyanophenyl hexyloxycarbonyl, 3 phenyl l chloro sec butoxy carbonyl, 2 phenyl 2 hydroxyethoxycarbonyl, 5 phenyl 2 hydroxyamyloxycarbonyl, 2 3 nitrophenyl 3 ethoxypropoxycarbonyl, 5,6 dihydroxy 2 4 ethyl 2 hydroxyphenyl hexyl oxycarbonyl and 5 carbamoyl 3 nitro 4 2,4 dimethoxyphenyl amyloxycarbonyl and the like. Further examples of the above COOR7 group are when R7 is an organic or inorganic cation, such ammonium carboxylate, procaine carboxylate, phenylethylbenzylammonium carboxylate, phenylglycine carboxyl ate, lysine carboxylate, lithium carboxylate, potassium carboxylate, sodium carboxylate and the like a carboxy protecting group, such as allyl carboxylate, p methoxy berizyl carboxylate, di 4 methoxy benzhydryl carboxylate, benzhydryl carboxylate, 2,2,2 trichloroethyl carboxyl ate, trimethylsilyl carboxylate, t butyl dimethylsilyl carboxylate, 3 trimethylsilyl ethyl carboxylate, trityl carboxylate, 4,4 4 trimethoxy trityl carboxylate, p toluenesulfonylethyl carboxylate, and the like a non toxic, metabolically labile esterforming group, such as methoxymethyl carboxylate, 5 methyl 2 oxo 1,3 dioxolen 4 ylmethyl carboxylate, ethylthiomethyl carboxylate, pivaloyloxymethyl carboxylate, 3 phthalidyl carboxylate, 1 ethoxycarbonyloxy eth l yl carboxylate, l methylaminocarbonyloxy eth l yl carboxylate, and the like. A preferred group of examples of the carboxy group COOR7 is when R7 is a C1 to C6 alkyl group, a carboxy protecting group, hydrogen or an organic or inorganic cation An especially preferred group of examples of the above carboxy group is when R7 is methyl, ethyl, hydrogen, allyl, benzyl, or sodium. Examples of the group COORg are given above in conjunction with the carboxy group COOR7. A preferred group of examples of the group COORg occurs when Rg is a C1 to C6 alkyl group. An especially preferred carboxyl group of the above formula is ethyl carboxylate. In the above Formula I, R1 and R2 can be a carboxy group of the formula COORg Examples of this group includes groups wherein R8 is hydrogen the carboxylic acid an organic or inorganic cation, such as ammonium carboxylate, procaine carboxylate, phenylethylbenzylammonium carboxylate, phenylglycine carboxylate, lysine carboxylate, lithium carboxylate, potassium carboxylate, sodium carboxylate and the like a carboxy protecting group, such as allyl carboxylate, 4 methoxybenzyl carboxylate, di 4 methoxy benzhydryl carboxylate, benzhydryl carboxylate, 2,2,2 trichloroethyl carboxylate, trimethylsilyl carboxylate, t butyl dimethylsilyl carboxylate, 3 trimethylsilyl ethyl carboxylate, trityl carboxylate, 4,4 ,4 trimethoxytrityl carboxylate, 4 toluenesulfonylethyl carboxylate, and the like a non toxic, metabolically labile ester forming group, such as methoxymethyl carboxylate, 5 methyl 2oxo 1,3 dioxolen 4 ylmethyl carboxylate, ethylthiomethyl carboxylate, pivaloyloxymethyl carboxylate, 3 phthalidyl carboxylate, l ethoxycarbonyloxy eth l yl carboxylate, l methylaminocarbonyloxy eth l yl carboxylate and the like. A preferred group of examples of the carboxyl group COOR8 occurs when R8 is allyl or t butyl. Examples of the group SO2Y include C1 to C6 alkylsulfonyl groups such as methylsulfonyl, ethylsulfonyl, t amyl sulfonyl and n hexyl sulfonyl, C7 to C12 alkylarylsulfonyl groups such as 2 phenyl propylsulfonyl, benzylsulfonyl, 1 phenyl n amyl sulfonyl and 4 phenyl n butyl sulfonyl C1 to C6 substituted alkylsulfonyl groups such as cyanomethylsulfonyl, 2 hydroxyethylsulfonyl, 2 nitropropylsulfonyl, 2 carbamoyl sec butyl sulfonyl, 5 chloroamylsulfonyl, 4 carboxyamylsulfonyl, 6 carbamoyloxyhexylsulfonyl, 2 methoxyethylsulfonyl, isopropoxy t butyl sulfonyl, 2 aminoethylsulfonyl, 2,5 dihydroxyamylsulfonyl, 3,3dibromo n butyl sulfonyl, 3 chloro 2 iodopropylsulfonyl, and 4 acetoxy 6 fluorohexylsulfonyl C7 to C12 substituted alkylarylsulfonyl groups such as 3 3,4 diiodo phenyl propylsulfonyl, 1 3 chloro 4 fluorophenyl ethylsulfonyl, 6 4 cyanophenyl hexylsulfonyl, 3 phenyl l chloro sec butyl sulfonyl, 2 phenyl 2 hydroxyethylsulfonyl, 5 phenyl 2 hydroxyamylsulfonyl, 2 3 nitrophenyl 3 ethoxypropylsulfonyl, 5,6 dihydroxy 2 4 ethyl 2 hydroxyphenyl hexylsulfonyl and 5 carbamoyl 3 nitro 4 2, 4 dimethoxyphenyl amylsulfonyl phenylsulfonyl, and substituted phenyl sulfonyl groups. Examples of the term substituted phenyl sulfonyl include groups such as 4 chlorophenylsulfonyl, 2, 6 dichlorophenylsulfonyl, 2, 5 dichlorophenylsulfonyl, 3, 4 dichlorophenylsulfonyl, 3 chlorophenylsulfonyl, 3 bromophenylsulfonyl, 4 bromophenylsulfonyl, 3, 4 dibromophenylsulfonyl, 3 chloro 4 fluorophenylsulfonyl, 2 fluorophenylsulfonyl, 4 hydroxyphenylsulfonyl, 4 protected hydroxy phenylsulfonyl, 3 hydroxyphenylsulfonyl, 2,4 dihydroxyphenylsulfonyl, 3 or 4 nitrophenylsulfonyl, 4 cyanophenylsulfonyl, 4 methylphenylsulfonyl, 2 ,4 dimethylphenylsulfonyl, 2 methylphenylsulfonyl, 4 iso propyl phenylsulfonyl, 4 ethylphenylsulfonyl, 3 n propyl phenylsulfonyl, 2,6 dimethoxyphenylsulfonyl, 4 methoxyphenylsulfonyl, 3 ethoxyphenylsulfonyl, 4 isopropoxy phenylsulfonyl, 4 t butoxy phenylsulfonyl, 3 ethoxy 4 methoxyphenylsulfonyl, 3 or 4 trifluoro methyl phenylsulfonyl, 4 carboxyphenylsulfonyl, 2,4di protected carboxy phenylsulfonyl, 3 protected hydroxymethyl phenylsulfonyl, 3, 4 di hydroxymethyl phenylsulfonyl, 2 aminomethyl phenylsulfonyl, 2,4 protected aminomethyl phenylsulfonyl, 3 methylsulfonylamino phenylsulfonyl, 3 methyl 4 hydroxyphenylsulfonyl, 3 chloro 4 hydroxyphenylsulfonyl, 2 methoxy4 bromophenylsulfonyl, 4 ethyl 2 hydroxyphenylsulfonyl, 3 hydroxy 4 nitrophenylsulfonyl and 2 hydroxy 4 chlorophenylsulfonyl. A preferred group of examples of the group SO2Y is the methylsulfonyl, phenylsulfonyl, 4 methylphenylsulfonyl and benzylsulfonyl groups, with 4 methylphenylsulfonyl being a more preferred group. Examples of the compounds of Formula I are listed below in Table I Table ICompounds of the Formula EMI28.1 R12 R2 R3 R4 Y allyl CH2Cl H H 4 methylphenyl allyl CH2OTHPÚ H H allyl CH2OAc H H pNBê phenyl methyl methyl methyl pMBê H 3 trifluoro methyl 2 chloroethyl methyl phenyl benzhydryl ethyl phenyl H benzyl t butyl phenylsulfonyl 2 trifluoro H 4 chlorobenzyl methyl phenyl Table I cont d.R12 R2 R3 R4 Y 2,2,2 trichloro n propyl Ethyl carboxy ethyl phenyl ethyl sulfoxide carboxy trimethylsilyl trifluoromethyl benzyl H 4 methoxyphenyl cinnamyl 1 methyltetrazol H H n propyl 5 ylthio acetoxymethyl formyl methyl phenyl benzyl trityl acetyl ethyl benzyl 3 phenylpropyl ss trimethyl perfluorobutyryl 3 nitrobenzyl H 3 phenylbutyl sily ethyl t amyl trichloroacetyl 2,5 dimethyl methyl benzyl phenyl 2,4,6 trimethyl benzoyl phenyl 4 methyl methyl benzyl phenyl 2 phenylprop 4 nitrobenzoyl 2,3 dibromo ethyl 3 cyanopropyl 2 yl propyl t butyldimethyl 2 phenylacetyl methyl methyl 3 ethylphenyl silyl Table I cont dR12 R2 R3 R4 Y pentamethyl 2 3 chlorophenyl H H 3 phenyl 2 chloro benzyl acetyl propyl phenacyl methyl carboxy allyl carboxy H ethyl 4 nitrobenzyl 2 fluoroethyl t butyl t butyl 4 phenylbutyl sulfonylethyl carboxy carboxy carboxy benzyl benzyl carboxy n propyl ethyl hexyl 3,4 dimethoxy 4 methylbenzyl n butyl n butyl 1 fluorethyl benzyl carboxy benzhydryl phenyl carboxy 3 phenyl 2 H 2 nitropropyl chloropropyl 1 trimethyl 3 nitro H H phenyl silylmethyl phenyl carboxy prop 1 en 3yl pivaloyloxy allyl carboxy H H phenyl methyl ethoxyethyl ethoxyethyl carboxy H H 4 methylphenyl methylthio 1,3,4 thiadiazol 2 H H benzyl methyl ylthiomethyl A preferred group of the above examples is when either R1 or R2 is hydrogen, C1 to C6 alkyl, C1 toC6 substituted alkyl, perfluoro C2 to C4 alkyl, C7 to C12 alkylaryl, C7 to C12 substituted alkylaryl, phenyl or substituted phenyl and the other is a group of the formula COOR8, and especially when Y is phenyl or substituted phenyl.A more preferred group of compounds occurs when R2 is hydrogen, C1 to C6 alkyl, C1 to C6 substituted alkyl, perfluoro C2 to C4 alkyl, C7 to C12 alkylaryl, C7 to C12 substituted alkylaryl, phenyl, substituted phenyl or cyano and especially so when R1 is a group of the formula COOR8 wherein R8 is a carboxy protecting group. One series of compounds worthy of note in this group occurs when R2 is hydrogen and especially when R8 is allyl and Y is 4 methylphenyl. The 2,3 dihydro bicyclic pyrazolidinones ofFormula I are the product of a 1,3 dipolar cycloaddition reaction. The cycloaddition reaction is represented below in Scheme 1 Scheme 1EMI31.1 ylide ethylene I In Scheme 1, R1, R2, R3, R4 and Y are as defined forFormula I. In conjunction with the process represented by the above Scheme 1, it is preferable to derivatize with protecting groups any acidic groups on the ylide, ethylene or bicyclic pyrazolidinone ring system ofFormula I represented by R1, R2, R3, R4 or Y. Such acidic groups include the carboxyl group. The reaction in the above Scheme 1 should be carried out in aprotic solvents. Examples of such solvents are the chlorinated hydrocarbons, the aromatic hydrocarbons and alkyl or aromatic cyano solvents. A preferred solvent for the above reaction is 1,2 dichloroethane. The temperature for the reaction is not critical. It is preferred that the reaction be carried out between about room temperature to about the reflux temperature of the solvent. A more preferred temperature is approximately the reflux temperature. The reaction usually requires a period of between about 1 to about 168 hours. The optimal reaction time can be determined by monitoring the progress of the reaction by conventional means such as chromatographic techniques thin layer chromatography, high performance liquid chromatography, or column chromatography or spectroscopic methods such as infrared spectroscopy, nuclear magnetic resonance spectrometry and mass spectrometry , or a combination of the two. The usual stoichiometry for the reaction is a 1 1 ratio of ylide to ethylene reagent. Of course, an excess of either reagent is permissible. The order of addition of the reagents is not critical. The regiospecificity of the cycloaddition reaction is such that the 3 alkyl or aryl sulfonyl regioisomer is the predominant product. Thus, the cycloaddition reaction is especially useful for placing the substitutent bonded to the sulfonyl substituted carbon of the ethylene at the 3 position of the bicyclic pyrazolidinone ring. The compounds of Formula I are converted to unsaturated bicyclic pyrazolidinone antimicrobials Formula II according to the elimination reaction set forth below in Scheme 2 Scheme 2EMI33.1 In the above Scheme 2, R1, R2, R31 R4 and Y are as defined for Scheme 1. Again, it is preferred that acidic groups at R1, R2, R31 R4 and Y be derivatized with a protecting group. Examples of such acidic groups are the carboxylic acids. The preferred solvent for the elimination reaction is dichloromethane. The elimination is conducted at a temperature from about 780C to about room temperature.A non nucleophilic base, such as 1,8 diazabicyclot5.4.0 undec 7 ene DBU or 1,5 diazabicyclo 4.3.0 non 5 ene DBN , is used to eliminate the elements of alkyl or aryl sulfinic acid.An excess of the non nucleophilic base in relation to the saturated system is normally used. The pyrazolidinium ylide starting materials for the above cycloaddition reaction are synthesized according to a process depicted below in Scheme 3. Scheme 3EMI35.1 EMI35.2 HydrazoneDiphenyl Ylide Diazolidine YI ide The first step in the synthesis of the ylide starting materials, represented by Reaction 1 in the above Scheme, is a cyclization of the 8 chloropropionyl hydrazone of benzophenone hydrazone to the 3 oxo l diphenylmethylene 1,2 pyrazolidinium ylide diphenyl ylide moiety. The cyclization is carried out using sodium hydride in tetrahydrofuran. The reaction solution is stirred at room temperature for 18 hours then at reflux for 2 hours The synthesis of the hydrazone and the conditions for Reaction 1 are described in E. C.Taylor et al., J. Am. Chem. Soc., 1981, 103, 7743 7752. The second step, represented in the aboveScheme by Reaction 2, is the hydrolysis of the diphenyl ylide to give the 3 oxo l,2 diazolidine p toluene sulfonate salt diazolidine compound. The diphenyl ylide is hydrolyzed with one equivalent of p toluenesulfonic acid monohydrate in dichloromethane, and the hydrolysis is generally complete after 2 hours of stirring at room temperature. The conditions forReaction 2 are adopted from E. C. Taylor et. al., supra. The final reaction in the synthesis of the pyrazolidinium ylide starting materials, represented asReaction 3 in the above scheme, is the condensation of a ketone or aldehyde with a diazolidine to give the pyrazolidinium ylide. The diazolidine and the ketone or aldehyde are combined, either in equimolar amounts or with an excess of the ketone or aldehyde in a solvent chosen from methanol, ethanol or dimethylformamide.Within a minute or two after combining the two reagents in the solvent, excess solid sodium bicarbonate is added and the resultant solution is stirred for 1 or 2 hours at room temperature. As a useful alternative procedure, the ketal of the ketone may be condensed with the diazolidine in the presence of an acid. For example, the diazolidine reagent is combined with acetone dimethyl acetal in methanol and then the solution is treated with d 10 camphorsulfonic acid. The mixture is refluxed for 1.5 hours to give the dimethyl ylide i.e., R3 and R4 are methyl . When R3 and R4 are different, those skilled in the art will recognize that this final reaction will produce a mixture of E and Z isomers. The ethylene starting materials in Scheme I are made by methods known in the art. The synthesis of some ethylene starting materials is also described in the Experimental Section below. Procedures for reactions in the above Scheme 3 are found at Preparations 1 through 3 in the Experimental Section. The bicyclic pyrazolidinone antimicrobial compounds of Formula II inhibit the growth of certain pathogenic organisms, as demonstrated by standard agar plate disc diffusion test. The antimicrobial compounds of Formula II are compounds wherein the various amino, hydroxy and or carboxy protecting groups have been removed. Representative pathogens which are sensitive to the antibiotic compounds of Formula II include Staphylococcus aureus X1, Escherichia coli X161,Escherichia coli X161M, Escherichia coli X580, Mycobacterium avium X85 and the like. The antimicrobial compounds of Formula II are useful for the therapeutic or prophylactic treatment of infections in warm blooded animals caused by gram positive, gram negative and acid fast bacteria. Alternatively, the compounds can be used as surface disinfectants and as food preservatives. The antimicrobial compounds can be administered orally, parenterally e.g. intravenously, intramuscularly, subcutaneously, etc. or as a topical ointment in treating bacterial infections of warmblooded animals. Further aspects of the synthesis and properties of the bicyclic pyrazolidinone antimicrobials ofFormula II are found in L.N. Jungheim and S. K. Sigmund,U.S. Patent Application No. 729,009, corresponding toEuropean Patent Application No. , filed this even date reference X 6800 . The following Examples are provided to further illustrate the invention. It is not intended that the invention be limited in scope by reason of any of the following Preparations or Examples. In the following Preparations and Examples, the terms nuclear magnetic resonance spectra, mass spectra and infra red spectra and are abbreviated n.m.r., m.s., and i.r. respectively. in addition, the adsorption maxima listed for the i.r. spectra are only those of interest and not all of the maxima observed.The abbreviation THY stands for tetrahydrofuran. As used in conjunction with the n.m.r. spectra, the abbreviations s , d , br. s , t , and m stand for singlet, doublet, broad singlet, triplet and multiplet, respectively. The abbreviation J indicates the coupling constant in Hertz. DMSO d6 represents dimethyl sulfoxide where all the protons have been replaced with deuterium. The n.m.r. spectra were obtained on a VarianAssociates EM 390 90 MHz or T 60 60 MHz instrument or on a Jeol FX 90Q 90 MHz instrument. The chemical shifts are expressed in 6 values parts per million downfield from tetramethylsilane . The field desorption mass spectra were taken on a Varian MAT 731 SpectrometerUsing carbon dendrite emitters. Election Impact Mass spectra were obtained on a CEC 21 110 instrument fromConsolidated Electrodynamics Corporation. Infrared spectra were obtained on a Perkin Elmer 281 instrument. Thin layer chromatography was carried out on E. Merck silica gel plates. Preparation 1 3 Oxo 1,2 Diazolidine 4 Toluenesulfonate Salt 3 Oxo l diphenylmethylene 1,2 pyrazoli dinium ylide 5 g, 19 mmol was dissolved in methylene chloride 100 ml . P toluenesulfonic acid monohydrate 19 mmol was added and the resultant solution was stirred at room temperature for 2 hours. The precipitate that formed was collected by filtration and dried in vacuo over 3 A molecular sieves to give approximately 1.9 g of 3 oxo 1,2 diazolidine p toluenesulfonate salt n.m.r. 90 MHz, DMSO d6 6 8.8 br. s, 3 , 7.4 d, 2,J 8 , 7.0 d, 2, J 8 , 3.64 t, 2, J 8 , 2.5 t, 2,J 8 , 2.20 s, 3 i.r. KBr 1750 cm 1 m.s. 258. Preparation 2 3 Oxo 1 Methylene 1,2 Pyrazolidinium YlideDimer 3 Oxo 1,2 diazolidine 25.8 g, 0.1 mmol was dissolved in methanol 200 ml . Aqueous formaldehyde 37 , 10.2 g, 0.125 mmol was added to the solution followed by the addition of solid sodium bicarbonate 20 g I minute later. The resultant mixture was stirred at room temperature for 45 minutes, filtered and the mother liquors were concentrated in vacuo. The solvent was azeotropically distilled in vacuo with isopropanol 3X, 500 ml and the final residue was dried in vacuo.The resultant residue was refluxed in methylene chloride 600 ml for 2 hours, filtered and concentrated in vacuo to give 6.4 g, 5 yield of a colorless solid of 3 oxo l methylene 1,2 pyrazolidinium ylide dimer n.m.r. 90MHz, CDC13 6 4.7 s, 4 , 3.46 t, 4, J 7 , 2.56 t, 4,J 7 i.r. CHCl3 1700 cm 1 m.s. M 196. Preparation 3 3 Oxo 1 Diphenylmethylene 1,2 Pyrazolidinium Ylide Benzophenone ss chloropropionyl hydrazyl 10.04 g, 35 mmol was dissolved in THF 110 ml . Sodium hydride 55 oily 1.52 g, 35 mmol was added to the solution in portion. The resultant mixture was stirred for 18 hours at room temperature, refluxed for 2 hours, cooled and washed with water. The organic phase was dried over magnesium sulfate, filtered and concentrated in vacuo. The solvent was azeotropically removed by distillation in vacuo with toluene to leave approximately 5 g of a yellow solid of 3 oxo l diphenylmethyl ene l,2 pyrazolidinium ylide n.m.r. 60 MHz, CDCl3 8.1 7.1 m, 10 , 4.13 t, 2, J 8 , 3.64 t, 2, J 8 . Preparation 4 2 Allyl Carboxylate 8 Oxo l,5 Diazabicyclo 3.3.0 Octa 2 Ene A mixture of 2R,3S and 2S,3R stereoisomers of 2 allyl carboxylate 3 p toluenesulfonyl 8 oxo l,5 diazabicyclo 3.3.0 octane 3.4 g, 16.3 mmol was dissolved in dry methylene chloride 50 ml and the solution cooled to 780C. 1,8 Diazabicyclo 5.4.0 undec 7 ene DBU11 1.5 ml, 10 mmol was dissolved in dry methylene chloride 50 ml and added to the cooled solution of the bicyclic pyrazolidinone. The resultant reaction solution was stirred at 780C for 15 minutes and then warmed slowly to room temperature.The solution was washed with aqueous 1N hydrochloric acid, saturated aqueous sodium bicarbonate solution and brine, dried over magnesium sulfate, filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure. The crude product was chromatographed onKieselgel 60 230 400 mesh eluted with a solvent gradient of 50 to 0 hexane in ethyl acetate. The product containing fractions were combined to give 830 mg 32 yield for combination of Example 1 and Preparation 4 or a yellow oil 2 allyl carboxylate 8 oxo 1,5 diazabi cyclot3.3.0 octa 2 ene n.m.r. 90 MHz, CDCl3 6 6.16 t, 1 , 6.1 5.68 m, 1 , 5.48 5.1 m, 2 4.72 d, m, 2 , 3.90 d, 2 , 3.32 t, 2 , 2.84 t, 2 . Example 1 2R,3S And 2S,3R 2 Allyl Carboxylate 3 P Toluenesulfonyl 8 Oxo 1,5 Diazabicyclo 3.3.0 Octane 3 Oxo 1 methylene 1,2 pyrazolidinium ylide dimer 1.5 g, 12.9 mmol , allyl 3 p toluenesulfonyl acrylate 3.35 g, 12.6 mmol and 1,2 dichloroethane 35 ml were combined and refluxed for 8 hours under argon. The reaction solution was concentrated under reduced pressure and chromatographed on a silica gel column eluted with a solvent gradient of 0 to 50 ethyl acetate in hexane. The chromatography procedure yielded a mixture of 2R,3S and 2S,3R stereoisomers of 2 allyl carboxylate 3 p toluenesulfonyl 8 oxo 1,5 diazabi cyclo 3.3.0 octane n.m.r. 90 MHz, CDCl3 6 7.70 d, 2 , 7.28 d, 2 , 5.90 5.40 m, 1 , 5.30 5.0 m, 2 , 4.88 d, 1 , 4.6 4.3 m, 1, with 4.46 d, m, 2 superimposed , 3.8 2.5 m, 6 , 2.48 s, 3 .