# METHOD FOR PRODUCING SEMICONDUCTOR DEVICE

## Abstract
In the production method of a semiconductor device, a connection layer 6 is formed on an insulating layer 3 according to two steps of irradiating, in the atmosphere of a reaction gas, a region in which the connection layer is to be formed selectively by light 5 having a wavelength in a range of from 200 to 1000 nm, and depositing selectively a connection layer 6 forming substance by a CVD method in the light irradiated region until a desired thickness of the substance is obtained.

## Claims
1. A method for producing a semiconductor device having an insulating layer formed on an element formed portion of a substrate, characterized in that there are provided the steps of irradiating, in an atmosphere of a reactive gas, a region of said insulating layer selectively by light, and depositing a connection layer forming substance selectively on said light irradiated region of said insulating layer according to a chemical vapor deposition CVD method.

## Description
This invention relates to a production method of a semiconductor device, and more particularly to a produc tion method of a connecting layer of the semiconductor device. According to the recent remarkable progress in seeking higher integration and higher operation speed, the integration pattern of a semiconductor device becomes excessively minute and of a high density, so that the effective area required for connecting electrodes thereof is also tending to be increased inevitably. At present, aluminum and aluminum alloys which are economical and low electric resistance are widely used for connecting pur pose. However, in a case where aluminum or an aluminum alloy is used in a VLSI as a connecting material, follow ing problems usually occur. As a pattern becomes minute, the width of each connecting line is reduced. However, the voltage applied to the integrated circuit is held to, for instance, DC 5V, and hence electrical stress caused in the connecting line tends to increase. As a consequence, connecting line troubles frequently occur due to the electromigration and the like when the line is made of aluminum or aluminum alloy. As the second problem, the melting point of aluminum or aluminum alloy is comparatively low, being approxi mately 450 C, and therefore it is required that temper ature in the subsequent production steps does not exceed the melting point, thus reducing the productivity of the integrated circuit. As the integration degree increases, a multilayer arrangement of connecting conductors becomes essential. Since aluminum or aluminum alloy cannot ordinarily resist the temperature required for the formation of the interlayer insulating film. There is a restriction in selecting a suitable insulating film to be used between the connecting conductors, and the reliability of the multilayer connection is thereby impaired. For obviating the above described difficulties of aluminum and aluminum alloy, a silicide film of a re fractory metal is also tried to be used recently. Such a film can be easily obtained by firstly forming a layer of a refractory metal on a polysilicon film by a sputtering method and the like, and then annealing the layer in a temperature range of 450 to 600 C. Alternatively, the silicide film of a refractory metal may be made directly by a CVD method of arrangement of reduced pressure by use of, for instance, tungsten hexafluoride WF₆ and silane Si H₄ . However, the silicide film of a refractory metal has a line resistance as high as 10 to 100 micro ohm cm, which is much higher than the line resistance of aluminum approximately equal to 2.3 micro ohm cm. In order to overcome this difficulty, a refractory metal film other than the above described silicide type, which is stable at a high temperature and exhibits a lower line resistance than that of the silicide film is now studied intensively. For the production of such a refractory metal film, a sputtering method, chemical gas phase growing method CVD methods and the like are considered. The sputtering method is advantageous because a refrac tory metal film of an excellent quality can be produced. However, the target made of pure refractory metal is extremely expensive, and hence the method cannot be exercised practically. On the other hand, the CVD method permits to produce the refractory metal film comparatively at a low cost. However, the refractory metal film formed by the CVD method on an insulating layer made of, for instance, silicon dioxide SiO₂ has exhibited an insufficiency in bonding with the underlying layer, thus making it difficult to use this method practically. Although there has been proposed a method wherein a connection pattern is firstly formed on an insulating layer by use of a polysilicon film, and the refractory metal film is thereafter formed on the connection pattern in accordance with the CVD method, such a method has complicated the production steps. The object of the present invention is to provide a method for producing a semiconductor device wherein a connecting layer can be deposited on an underlying layer in a tightly bonded manner. According to the invention, there is provided a method for producing a semiconductor device having an insulating layer formed on an element formed portion of a substrate, comprising the steps of irradiating in an atmosphere of a reactive gas, a region of the insulating layer selectively by light and depositing a connection layer forming substance selectively on the light indicated region of the insulating layer according to the chemical gas phase growing CVD method. The selective irradiation of light on the surface of insulating layer on the substrate is performed by means of, for example, a photo mask, thereby producing an intermediate product having good bonding characteristics to the insulating layer. Subsequently, a connection layer forming substrate is selectively deposited on the intermediate product by the CVD method. In the accompanying drawings Figs. 1 a through 1 c illustrate steps for forming a connection layer according to the present invention. As shown in Fig. 1 a , an element formed region including a diffusion layer 2 and the like is firstly formed on a P type silicon substrate 1 having been sub jected to an element separating operation. Then, the entire surface is coated by a silicon dioxide film 3, and contact holes 4 are bored through the silicon dioxide film 3. The substrate 1 thus formed is then placed in a CVD furnace, and under the flow of argon gas at a rate of 400 cc min, the substrate 1 is heated and maintained at a temperature in a range of from 250 to 700 C. A mixed gas consisting of hydrogen H₂ and chlorine Cl₂ , or hydrogen chloride HCℓ gas is caused to flow through the CVD furnace, and the substrate 1 is irradiated by a light having a wavelength in a range of 200 to 1000 nm. The substrate 1 is thereafter subjected to an etching process lightly. Then, the CVD furnace is filled with tungsten hexa fluoride WF₆ under a pressure of from 1 m Torr to 100 m Torr, and the substrate 1 is irradiated by light 5 as shown in Fig. 1 b , which has a wavelength in a range of 200 to 1000 nm through a photomask not shown . Then by use of a mixed gas made of tungstenhexa fluoride WF₆ held at a partial pressure of from 5 x 10 ⁴ to 50 Torr and hydrogen H₂ held at a partial pressure of from 1 to 100 Torr as a reactive gas, an ordinary reduced pressure CVD method is effectuated as shown in Fig. 1 c while the substrate 1 is maintained at a temperature ranging 250 to 700 C, so that a tungsten W film 6 is formed selectively at positions exposed to light in the above described step. The tungsten film thus formed is found to be tightly bonded with the silicon dioxide film underlying the tungsten film, and even in a case where the tungsten film is used in the multilayer connection, with an insulating film formed afterward therebetween at a high temperature, there has been no possibility of causing bonding trouble between the tungsten film and the silicon dioxide film. The aforementioned advantageous feature is considered to be provided because of the following reason. Since the substrate has been irradiated in the tungsten hexafluoride atmosphere by light having a wave length in a range of 200 to 1000 nm, an intermediate product of a high bonding property is created, and under the presence of this intermediate product, the tungsten film of a predetermined thickness is formed by the CVD method while the film is maintained in a highly bonded condition. Furthermore, since the connection pattern has been memorized by the intermediate product, the tungsten film can be produced selectively during the subsequent CVD process without requiring any selectively depositing procedure. Thus in contrast to the convention knowledge of being difficult to form a connecting layer made of a refractory metal on the insulating film in a highly bonded state, according to the present invention, forming such a connecting layer is made possible in a simple manner. Furthermore, according to the method of this inven tion, photolithographic process is not required, and the connection pattern is applied by light directly to the insulating film. Thus, differing from the conventional method wherein the pattern has been applied to a photo resist film formed on the surface of the connecting film, the pattern is then developed, and an etching process has been carried out while utilizing the pattern thus devel oped as a mask, there is no possibility of accompanying contamination caused by resist or during processes, and manufacturing process can be simplified. In addition, the thickness of the film forming the connection pattern may also be increased easily as desired. Although in the above described embodiment, the element has been formed on a silicon substrate, it is apparent that the invention may also be applied to a case where the element is formed, for instance, on a sapphire substrate. That is, the invention may also be applied to a so called SOS construction having a connection layer on such a substrate. The atmosphere in which the light is irradiated is not necessarily of the aforementioned WF₆ gas, but may be of any reactive gas such as a halogen gas. In addition, the formation of the connection layer is not necessarily realized by the selective CVD method utilizing the refractory metal and hydrogen. In the above described embodiment, the bonding property of the film has been improved by, prior to the formation of the film, irradiating the substrate by light under the flow of a halogen gas such as HCℓ for cleaning the surface. However, such an improving step may be omitted in accordance with the requirements. Although in the embodiment, the region of forming the connection pattern has been defined by light irradiating the insulating film through a photomask, any other method of irradiating the film selectively such as directly drawing the connection pattern by, for instance, argon fluoride Ar F eximer laser may otherwise be utilized. Furthermore, the wavelength of the light used for the irradiation has been described to be in the range of 200 to 1000 nm. However, this may otherwise be selected suitably. In the CVD step of the invention, no light irradia tion has been executed. However, by use of the light irradiation also in the CVD step, the deposition as well as the selectively thereof can be improved, and the connection pattern of a higher precision can be thereby realized. Further, in the above described embodiment, a connec tion pattern made of a refractory metal has been formed on a flat silicon dioxide film. However, instead of such a procedure, the invention may otherwise be executed in a manner such that a recessed portion 7 is formed on a silicon dioxide film 3, as shown in Fig. 2 a , at a position corresponding to a region to be formed into the connection layer, the film 3 is irradiated selectively by light as described in the embodiment, and then a tungsten film 8 is formed by the CVD method as shown in Fig. 2 b . In this manner, the surface of the substrate after the formation of the connection layer can be made flat. This method is particularly advantageous for producing a semiconductor device of a multilayer type. Although it has been described that the connection pattern in the preferred embodiment of the present inven tions is made of a refractory metal, it is apparent that the invention is to restricted to such a construction, and an aluminum film made in accordance with the CVD method out of an organic aluminum pyrolytically may otherwise be used for the construction of the connection pattern.