# HEAD BORNE BINOCULAR INDIRECT OPHTHALMOSCOPE WITH INTEGRATED INTEGRATED TELESCOPE

## Claims
Ein am Kopf zu tragendes binokulares Gerät für indirekte Ophthalmoskopie mit einer einzigen zentrierten Lichtquelle s etwas oberhalb des in der Regel waagerechten Niveaus des zweiseitigen symmetrischen Beobachtungssystems des Ophthalmoskops zwecks Richtung eines Lichtstrahls auf eine von Hand zu haltende Linse C₂ für indirekte Ophthalmoskopie, die ein Luftbild des durch das Beobachtungssystem des Ophthalmoskops zu betrachtenden Augenhintergrunds erzeugt, wobei das besagte Beobachtungssystem mittlere rechte und linke schräge und ebene Oberflächenspiegel a, a¹ sowie ein Paar seitliche linke und rechte Schrägspiegel b, b¹ aufweist, und zwar ist das besagte Gerät dadurch gekennzeichnet, daß das Beobachtungssystem folgende Teile umfaßt

## Description
This invention relates to a head borne binocular indirect ophthalmoscope apparatus. Head borne binocular indirect ophthalmoscopes presently commercially available serve two functions 1 They provide a light source which, in conjunction with a hand held indirect ophthalmoscopy condensing lens, illuminates the interior of the eye, and 2 they provide a binocular viewing system of the aerial image of the fundus of the eye produced by said condensing lens, said aerial image being an inverted real image formed of light emerging from the eye and refracted by said condensing lens. Monocular indirect ophthalmoscopy utilizing a separate light source to one side and at a distance behind the subject and utilizing a head borne mirror with a central aperture in front of the examiner s eye and a hand held 13.00 diopter spherical condensing and image forming lens, was first used in the mid 19th century. By the early 20th century, Gullstrand had designed a large table model binocular indirect ophthalmoscope. The large size and complexity of the Gullstrand apparatus as well as the inability of the examiner to view the periphery of the retina with it prevented its wide acceptance. In 1947 Dr. Charles Schepens developed a small head borne binocular indirect ophthalmoscope incorporating a high intensity illuminating system and two pairs of oblique mirrors for directing the light rays from the aerial image of the fundus to each eye of the examiner. Said aerial image is formed by a hand held condensing and image forming indirect ophthalmoscopy lens, said lens being separate and distinct from the head borne indirect ophthalmoscope. The power of the indirect ophthalmoscopy lens may be varied to suit the examiner and its tilt and position may be modified to enhance the viewing of the fundus of the eye. The Schepens head borne binocular indirect ophthalmoscope greatly increased the ability of the examiner to observe details of the fundus, especially the peripheral portions. Since Schepens introduced his binocular head borne indirect ophthalmoscope, several other similar head borne ophthalmoscopes identical in principle to the Schepens instrument have become commercially available. The inverted aerial image of the fundus when viewed by means of the Schepens ophthalmoscope and similar ophthalmoscopes remains inverted and essentially not magnified. In learning to use the head borne binocular indirect ophthalmoscope, the examiner must take into account the fact that the image he is observing is inverted and diametrically opposed to the actual position of points in the fundus. Also, when the hand held indirect ophthalmoscopy lens is of strong dioptric power, the aerial image of the fundus is less magnified although the area of the fundus included in the aerial image is increased. A binocular indirect ophthalmoscope is illustrated in the present applicant s published International Patent Application WO84 01703. The complete optical path is shown in Fig. 6. That earlier specification is primarily concerned, however, with the design of the hand held lens used in the indirect ophthalmoscopy. A general description of the prior art practice in this field is given below with reference to Figs. 1 to 3 of the present application. The prior art discloses a head borne binocular indirect ophthalmoscope apparatus of the kind containing a head borne binocular indirect ophthalmoscope apparatus containing a single centered light source slightly above the usually horizontal level of the bilateral symmetrical observing system of the ophthalmoscope, for directing a beam of light toward a hand held indirect ophthalmoscopy lens which produces an aerial image of the fundus of an eye to be viewed by the observing system of the ophthalmoscope, said observing system including medial right and left oblique flat front surface mirrors and a pair of lateral right and left oblique mirrors. There will be described hereinafter a head borne binocular indirect ophthalmoscope for viewing the aerial image of the fundus of the eye, that provides improved performance for the examiner. The ophthalmoscope to be described incorporates within each of its two observing portions following a pair of medially positioned oblique mirrors a two lens telescope of low magnifying power which magnifies the aerial image of the fundus. A single low powered collimating lens whose primary focus is at the usual working distance in performing indirect ophthalmoscopy, is fixed in position in front of both of the medially positioned oblique mirrors. It will be shown how the incorporation of aberration correcting aspherical objective and ocular telescope lenses provides to the observer viewing the aerial image of the fundus binocularly a magnified, stereoscopic clear image of the aerial image of the fundus of the eye. Two types of telescope are usable in the preferred practice of this invention a Galilean telescope wherein the objective lens is of strong positive power and wherein the ocular lens is of strong negative power and the image is seen as clear, enlarged, and inverted, and an astronomical telescope wherein the objective lens is of strong positive power and the ocular lens is of strong positive power and the image is reinverted and is seen as clearly, enlarged, and upright. According to the present invention there is provided a head borne, binocular ophthalmoscope apparatus of the kind set forth above in which the observing system comprises a collimating lens located symmetrically in front of said medial right and left oblique flat front surface mirrors The invention and its practice will now be further described with reference to the accompanying drawings, in which Figures 1 3 illustrate the optical arrangement of prior binocular indirect ophthalmoscopes. In FIGURE 1, I have shown schematically the optical system for illuminating the fundus of the eye. Light source S sends light to condensing lens C₁ which in turn directs divergent light rays to oblique mirror M which redirects the divergent beam of light to a hand held indirect ophthalmoscopy condensing lens C₂, which converges the beam of light to form a real inverted image S of light source S in the vicinity of the center of the pupil of the eye, I. The light rays then diverge to illuminate the fundus F. In FIGURE 2 I have shown schematically light rays emerging from the illuminated eye I from points in the fundus F and passing through the pupil of the eye, to be incident upon the back surface of indirect ophthalmoscopy condensing lens C₂ and refracted through lens C₂ to form a real inverted aerial image i of the fundus F. Since the object points in the fundus are at different depths, aerial image i likewise has depth. The light rays from each point in the fundus passing through image i then continue to the head borne binocular ophthalmoscope see FIGURE 3 where they impinge upon medial oblique mirrors a and a and after reflection, upon lateral oblique mirrors b and b which then direct the reflected light rays to the pupils o and o of the observer s eyes e and e . Oblique mirrors b and b are adjustable towards or away from each other by means of slides and ways not shown in FIGURE 3, to match the interpupillary distance of the observer. The observer is thus observing binocularly and stereoscopically inverted aerial image i. Since aerial image i is at a fairly close distance from the observer s eyes, it may be necessary to provide supplementary lenses l of about two diopters power in front of the observer s eyes should the observer be presbyopic. The image seen by the observer is inverted and not enlarged, except for slight magnification which results from said two diopter lenses when used. I have improved upon the prior art in two ways a first improvement is to utilize a collimating lens C, centered in front of medial oblique mirrors a and a see FIGURE 4 so that light rays in each bundle from each point in image i, after refraction by the collimating lens, proceed as a homocentric bundle of essentially parallel light rays toward oblique mirrors a and a . In FIGURE 4, I have shown divergent light rays from a central point in image i incident upon collimating lens C and refracted to a homocentric bundle of parallel light rays to each medial oblique mirror a and a . Since image i has depth, the light rays in the homocentric bundle may be parallel or may be very slightly convergent or divergent. The power of the collimating lens is such that the aerial image i of the fundus lies at its anterior focal plane. I have determined that an anterior vertex power of 3.37 diopters for the anterior focal distance of 29.674 centimeters for the collimating lens, representing the distance between the aerial image i and said collimating lens, is satisfactory. In the actual practice of indirect ophthalmoscopy with a 20 diopter hand held indirect ophthalmoscopy lens C₂ and the 3.37 diopter collimating lens C, the distance between the hand held indirect ophthalmoscopy lens and the observer s eyes would be approximately 16 inches 406 mm , which is a convenient and comfortable working distance. However, different observers may prefer working distances less than or greater than 16 inches 406 mm , requiring collimating lenses stronger or weaker than 3.37 diopters respectively. The collimating lens, in addition to its effect with respect to the working distance of the observer, also has the effect of magnifying the aerial image, the stronger its power, the greater the magnification. FIGURE 5 is a graph of power of the collimating lens versus its magnification within a range of 1.143 to 1.332. The power of the collimating lens is seen to be in the range of 2.00 to 4.50 diopters and depends upon the preferred working distance of the observer, the stronger lens being used for shorter working distances. Working distance is the distance between the observer s eyes and the hand held indirect ophthalmoscopy lens. Note that at a power of 3.37 diopters, magnification of the collimating lens is approximately 1.25. Although FIGURE 5 shows collimating lens dioptric powers from 2.00 to 4.50, a lens with powers of less than 2.00 diopters, for example 1.0 diopter , or greater than 4.50 diopters, for example 5.50 diopters, may be used. A second improvement upon the prior art is the incorporation of a pair of two lens telescopes of low magnifying power within the indirect ophthalmoscope apparatus. FIGURE 6, drawn to scale, is a schematic representation of an entire optical system for indirect ophthalmoscopy including the apparatus embodying this invention. The figure illustrates the formation of the aerial image of the illuminated fundus by means of the hand held indirect ophthalmoscope lens C₂. The head borne apparatus includes firstly the novel single element collimating lens C and secondly the pair of two element Galilean telescopes each having a respective objective lens 10, 12 and a respective ocular lens 14, 16. Each telescope element is inclined and fixed in position with respect to its respective lateral oblique flat front surface mirror a and a and each telescope and said lateral oblique mirror comprising a unit u within the indirect ophthalmoscope apparatus. Also shown in FIGURE 6 is the position and convergence of the observer s eyes e and e . Said telescope units are designed and angled such that the optical axis of each ocular lens is directed toward the center of the apparent position of the aerial image of the fundus. In FIGURE 7, I have shown in greater detail the positions and angular relationships of the mirrors and lenses depicted in the lefthand portion of FIGURE 6 along with the path of the axial chief ray which coincides with the optical axis of the telescope of said fixed unit. The angle between the two medial oblique front surface mirrors a and a is 90 so that each mirror makes an angle of 45 with respect to the center plane of symmetry of the right and left halves of the indirect ophthalmoscope. From a point at the center of the aerial image of the fundus which is at the primary focus of the collimating lens C, light rays proceed as a homocentric bundle of divergent rays to said collimating lens and are refracted as a homocentric bundle of collimnated light rays parallel to said center plane of symmetry. The chief ray 21 of the homocentric bundle of light rays from the point at the center of the aerial image is shown in FIGURE 7, and the rays proceed to then intersect the medial oblique mirror at an angle of incidence of 45 and are then reflected at an angle of reflection of 45 . The reflected homocentric bundle of parallel light rays are thus perpendicular to said collimated light rays to be incident upon the objective lens 12 of the telescope of the indirect ophthalmoscope of this invention. The optical axis 18 of said objective lens 12 is parallel to said homocentric bundle of reflected parallel incident light rays and that light ray coinciding with the optical axis of said objective lens is the axial chief ray which proceeds through said objective lens undeviated to be incident upon the lateral oblique mirror 22 which itself is at an angle of 47 with respect to said center plane of symmetry. The angle of incidence of said chief ray at said lateral oblique mirror is thus 47 as is the angle of reflection, measured with respect to a normal to said mirror shown at 24 at the point of reflection. Said reflected chief ray at said lateral oblique mirror 22 is thus inclined at an angle of 4 with respect to said center plane of symmetry as is the inclination of the optical axis of the ocular lens of said telescope which coincides with the reflected chief ray from said lateral oblique mirror 22. Of importance is the fact that the extended optical axis and axial chief ray of the objective lens 12 and those of the ocular lens 16 intersect and are reflections of each other at the lateral oblique front surface mirror 22. Two lenses having a common straight line optical axis are said to be coaxial. In this specification I have extended the concept of coaxiality to include those situations in which a mirror is interposed between two lenses such that the optical axis of one of the lenses intersects the optical axis of the other at said mirror and the two axes and the normal to the mirror surface at their point of intersection all lie in the same plane, with the angle between the optical axis of the first of said lenses and the normal to the surface and that between the optical axis of the second of said lenses and the normal to the surface being equal. This, in essence, is the law of reflection substituting optical axes for light rays. The two lenses 12 and 16 are still said to be coaxial and the two lenses and the interposed mirror comprise the coaxial movable telescope unit of the indirect ophthalmoscope. Although 47 is a very useful angle between the lateral oblique mirrors and the center plane of symmetry, said angle may be less than 47 or greater than 47 , approximately 46 or 48 , for example, in accordance with a working distance for indirect ophthalmoscopy somewhat less or greater respectively than the usual working distance of 16 inches 406 mm and in accordance with the interpupillary distance of the observer, a large interpupillary distance requiring a larger angle and a small interpupillary distance requiring a smaller angle. In adjusting the indirect ophthalmoscope for the interpupillary distance of the observer, the movement of said unit must be along ways perpendicular to said center plane of symmetry to maintain coincidence of the optical axis of said unit and said chief ray reflected from said medial oblique mirror. During such an adjustment the inclination of said lateral oblique mirror remains at 47 with respect to said center plane of symmetry. Also any adjustment of the ocular lens for focusing of the telescope is in the axial direction of the ocular lens of the telescope, thereby maintaining coaxiality of the unit. FIGURE 8, drawn to scale, shows in detail for one half of said first embodiment of the indirect ophthalmoscope shown in FIGURE 6, the positioning and inclination of the positive objective lens 12 and the negative ocular lens 16 with respect to the lateral flat oblique front surface mirror 22. The two lenses 12 and 16 and said lateral oblique mirror 22 comprise the fixed unit u which can be moved transversely along ways without the necessity for change in the telescopic adjustment when adjusting the ophthalmoscope for interpupillary distance as shown by arrows 28, by moving said unit toward and away from its respective medial flat oblique front surface mirror a or a . The negative ocular lens 16 is held in an axially adjustable mounting 30 with a screw thread for fine adjustment in the axial direction. The image of the aerial image of the fundus of the eye as seen through this embodiment of the invention remains inverted. FIGURE 9, drawn to scale, is similar to FIGURE 8 with the exception that the telescope incorporated in said fixed unit is an astronomical telescope wherein the ocular lens 16 is a strong positive lens. The relative fixed positions of the objective and ocular lenses 12 and 16 with respect to the lateral oblique mirror 22 are shown. There is adequate distance between the front surface of the objective lens 12 and the medial oblique mirror a to allow for adjustment of said ophthalmoscope, as shown at 28, for observers with small interpupillary distances. The image of the aerial image of the fundus as seen by an observer through this embodiment of the indirect ophthalmoscope of this invention is upright. The objective lens 12 of said incorporated telescope is a strong positive lens of homogeneous transparent optical glass or plastic. The objective lens 12 of the astronomical telescope is considerably stronger than that of the Galilean telescope. I have included spherical objective and ocular lenses 12 and 16 as elements of the telescope however, such lenses when very strong as in the astronomical telescope, can produce considerable aberrations in the image formed through them and it is necessary with said strong lenses as in the incorporated astronomical telescope, that the lens elements of the telescope be aspheric, with one or both surfaces of the objective lens 12 being aspheric and one or both surfaces of the ocular lens 16 also being aspheric, if aberrations are to be reduced to a minimum. The use of aspheric objective lenses, especially if both front and back surfaces are aspheric, ensures that a homocentric bundle of light rays originating in the aerial image of the fundus, rendered parallel by said collimating lens, and reflected from said medial oblique mirror and incident upon said objective lens, will be focused toward an essentially aberration free image at the secondary focal plane of said objective lens. It is of course necessary that the aerial image of the fundus is itself essentially flat and aberration free and the use for the lens C₂ of a double aspheric indirect ophthalmoscopy lens as described in the above mentioned specification WO 84 01 703, produces such an aerial image. Divergent homocentric bundles of light rays from said inverted aerial image of the fundus are incident upon the collimating lens of the indirect ophthalmoscope of this invention which refracts said bundles to homocentric bundles of parallel light rays directed towards the medial oblique front surface mirror a and a of said ophthalmoscope which in turn reflects the homocentric bundles of parallel light rays to the front aspheric surface of each objective lens 10 and 12. When the incorporated telescope is an astronomical telescope, the homocentric bundles of light rays emerging from the back aspheric surface of said objective lens are incident upon the lateral oblique front surface mirror and reflected to a real reinverted upright aerial image of the aerial image of the fundus in the secondary focal plane of said objective lens 12 which is also the primary focal plane of the ocular lens 16 of said astronomical telescope. Said reinverted aerial image then becomes the object for the ocular lens 16 of said telescope. The ocular lens 16 is so designed with both front and back surfaces aspheric that diverging homocentric bundles of light rays from points in said object plane, after refraction by said ocular lens 16, proceed as homocentric bundles of parallel light rays, with the chief ray of each bundle proceeding towards the back focus of said ocular lens 16. When the observer s eye e is positioned with the center of its entrance pupil at the back focus of the ocular lens of said telescope, the image of the fundus as seen by means of the indirect ophthalmoscope will be enlarged and upright. In the binocular indirect ophthalmoscope of this invention incorporating the astronomical telescope, the dioptric power of the objective lens 10, 12 may be as low as 40 diopters or as high as 80 diopters, while the dioptric power of the ocular lens 14, 16 may likewise be a value between 40 and 80 diopters. An objective lens of 60 diopters in combination with an ocular lens of 70 diopters is well suited for the incorporated astronomical telescope it permits a full range of adjustability for the interpupillary distance of the observer, and because of the high dioptric powers of both the objective and the ocular lenses, the head borne indirect ophthalmoscope can be made compact and used close to the observer s eyes. The magnification produced by the incorporated astronomical telescope is a function of the ratio of the dioptric power of the ocular lens divided by the dioptric power of the objective lens. Additional magnification is provided by the positive aspheric collimating lens. For example, if the power of the collimating lens is 3.37 diopters, the magnification produced by it is 1.25, and if the power of the objective lens of the telescope is 60 diopters and that of the ocular lens is 70 diopters, the magnification of said telescope is 1.167. The total magnification of the indirect ophthalmoscope is then It is understood that the dioptric powers of the objective and ocular lenses of the astronomical telescope may be other than 60 and 70 diopters respectively and still be completely compatible with the dimensions and concepts of the described indirect ophthalmoscope, thereby obtaining other magnifications. As an example, the objective lens of said telescope may have a dioptric power of 55 and the ocular lens may have a dioptric power of 75, and the collimating lens may be kept at a dioptric power of 3.37 whereby the magnification of the primary aerial image of the fundus of the eye will be 1.36 x 1.25 1.70. If the dioptric power of both the objective lens and the ocular lens of the incorporated astronomical telescope are the same, magnification produced by means of the telescope will be 1.00 and the total magnification will be that produced by the collimating lens only, 1.25, with the power of the collimating lens still at 3.37 diopters. The image as seen by the observer will be enlarged and upright. When the incorporated telescope is a Galilean telescope see FIGURE 8 , the homocentric bundles of converging light rays emerging from the back surface of the objective lens 12 of the telescope are incident upon the lateral oblique flat front surface mirror 22, and after reflection by said mirror are directed toward the repositioned secondary focal plane of said objective lens 12. The negative ocular lens 16 is coaxial with the redirected optical axis of said objective lens and is interposed between the lateral oblique mirror and said secondary focus of the objective lens 12, with its primary focal plane coinciding with the secondary focal plane of said objective lens. The image seen by the observer is inverted and enlarged. Magnification of said Galilean telescope is equal to the ratio of the dioptric power of the ocular lens 16 divided by the dioptric power of the objective lens 12. As an example, if the power of the objective lens 10, 12 is 20 diopters and that of the ocular lens 14, 16 is 30 diopters, magnification is then 1.50. If the magnification due to the collimating lens is 1.25, then the total magnification is then 1.50 x 1.25 1.88. As a second example, if the dioptric powers of the objective and ocular lenses of the included Galilean telescope are 25 and 35 diopters respectively, then magnification by the telescope is 1.4. If the magnification due to the collimating lens is 1.25, then the total magnification is In FIGURES 10 and 11, I have shown an ophthalmoscope unit which incorporates the lens and mirror assembly of the present invention as set forth herein in FIGURES 4 9. Specifically as seen in FIGURES 10, 10A and 11, a strap assembly 25 comprises a peripheral head part 25a and an upwardly projecting crown part 25b adapted to lie around and over the user s head as best seen in FIGURE 11. A suitable light source S as referred to in FIGURE 1 is mounted to the top wall of an elongated tubular housing h which is square in cross section. As seen in FIGURES 10 and 11, mirror M is rotationally adjustable about its axis by finger lever l₁ to position the light beam from mirror M to condensing lens C₂ held by the observer. The observing lens and mirror system of the ophthalmoscope is disposed within the housing h so as interact with the light source S and its associated light reflecting mirror M. The observing lens and mirror system incorporates the system as shown in FIGURES 6 9 and includes medial oblique flat front surface mirrors a and a , lateral front surface mirrors b and b , right and left objective lenses 10 and 12 and right and left ocular lenses 14 and 16 as right and left units u . As best seen in FIGURES 10 and 10A each lateral front surface mirror b and b is fixedly mounted on a boss 28 disposed within an elongated recess 29 which is formed on the upper surface 30 of rectangular mounting plate 32. The boss 28 projects through a slot 36 formed in the recess 29 and threadedly connects on its underside with a suitable fastener 34. With this assembly, each boss 28 and mounted lateral mirror b and b can be slidably moved as a unit transversely toward and away from each other to adjust for the inter pupillary distance of the observer s eyes. The front wall h₂ of the housing h is formed centrally with a window h₃ in which the collimating lens C as seen in FIGURE 6 is mounted so as to be directly in front of front surface mirrors a and a . The left and right ocular lenses are mounted in eyepiece units and which in turn are mounted to the back wall of the lateral oblique front surface mirrors b and b respectively so as to be movable with said mirrors b and b and thereby position said eyepieces at the interpupillary distance of the observer. As best seen in FIGURE 10, the right objective lens is attached to wall b₂ of the lateral oblique front surface mirror b, and in like manner, the left objective lens is attached to wall b₄ of the lateral oblique front surface mirror b . With this ophthalmoscope, the observer places the same onto his head, as seen in FIGURE 11, and connects the light source to a suitable source of electrical current. The observer then holds the condensing image forming lens C₂, as seen in FIGURE 6, in front of the eye to be examined whereby the light beam from the mirror M is directed through said lens C₂ to illuminate the eye being examined. The reflected light from the examined eye is then passed back through the pupil to the condensing lens C₂ to form aerial image i. The light rays from image i proceed to collimating lens C and are refracted to medial oblique mirrors a and a where they are reflected to the left and right objective lenses. Said light rays are then refracted by said objective lenses to lateral oblique mirrors b and b where they are then reflected to left and right ocular lenses and then refracted to the observer s eyes e and e . In using both the astronomical and Galilean telescope in the practice of this invention, the lenses are made of homogeneous transparent glass or plastic of a given index of refraction. For example, the lenses are generally made of ophthalmic crown glass having an index of refraction of 1.523. Ophthalmic crown glass has relatively low chromatic dispersion. Also, the light emitted from the eye when white light is used as the light source in indirect ophthalmoscopy, is primarily limited to the yellow to red portions of the visible spectrum so that the aerial image of the fundus of the eye appears orange red. The limitation of the range of spectral wave lengths of emitted light mainly to the orange red portion of the visible spectrum practially eliminates chromatic blurring of the image of the fundus as seen by means of the indirect ophthalmoscope of this invention. In using the Galilean telescope, chromatic aberration even of a small amount can be reduced by the appropriate combination of indices of refraction and Nu values of each of the two elements of the telescope. The surfaces of all lenses in the described ophthalmoscope are multicoated to increase light transmission through each surface to better than 99 , thereby reducing the loss of light by reflection at each lens surface.