# DIAMIDE DTPA PARAMAGNETIC CONTRAST AGENTS FOR MR IMAGING, APPARATUS AND METHODS

## Claims
Ein Komplex aus einem paramagnetischen polyvalenten Metall und einem Amid der Diethylentriaminpentaessigsäure, worin der Stickstoff der Amidgruppe unsubstituiert oder mit wenigstens einem C₁ C₁₈ Alkylrest substituiert ist.

## Description
This invention relates to magnetic resonance imaging MRI contrast agents, and more particularly to contrast agents based on chelates of paramagnetic metal species by amides of diethylenetriaminepentaacetic acid DTPA . The Journal of Nuclear Medicine 22, 810 814 1981 describes the use of small amounts of monooctadecylamine DTPA in liposomes to complex the carrier free radioactive metals Tc 99m and Ga 67 with the intention of improving the state of the art liposome oxine chelates of these metals in applications in nuclear medicine. DE A1 3129906 Schering Gries, Rosenberg, and Weinmann teaches the incorporation of paramagnetic metals into diethylenetriaminepentaacetic acid DTPA forming chelates useful as contrast agents in magnetic resonance imaging. The contrast agent DTPA Gd III as taught by Schering is insoluble in water and requires the addition of cations C amines such as glucamine, N methylglucamine, etc. as shown below The charge balance of the schering DTPA Gd III ion is The resulting contrast agent has three ion particles in solution for each paramagnetic atom PM a particle to PM ratio of 3 1. A paramagnetic metal with a valence of two, such as Mn, would require an additional glucamine ion raising the particle to PM ratio to 4 1. These contrast agents raise the in vivo ion concentration and disturb the local osmolarity balance. The osmolarity is normally regulated at about 300 milliosmols per liter. Increasing the osmolarity with injected ions, causes water to collect within the unbalance region which dilutes the ion concentration. The present invention is based on the surprising discovery that, by replacing one or more of the carboxy groups of the chelating agent diethylenetriaminepentaacetic acid DTPA with amide groups, an improved magnetic resonance imaging contrast agent may be obtained, which has a high stability, low toxicity and is physiologically tolerable. The improved amide contrast agents of the invention may be provided in a pharmacological form having a low osmolarity and are both in vivo responsive and organ selective. Moreover the contrast agents of the invention are particularly useful since they cause surface highlighting of the small and large intestine. Thus the present invention provides a complex of a paramagnetic polyvalent metal and an amide of diethylenetriaminepentaacetic acid in which the nitrogen of the amide group is unsubstituted or is substituted by at least one C₁ ₁₈ alkyl radical. This chemically stable physiologically tolerable contrast agent may be provided in a pharmacological state, for in vivo use during diagnostic magnetic resonance MR imaging. The contrast agent enhances the MR image of a subject within the MR scanning magnetic field. A paramagnetic metal ion PM Z having an atomic charge of Z locally affects the MR scanning magnetic field to reduce the T1 relaxation time of local protons within the subject. The contrast agent contains a triamine chelator Amide DTPA securely polar bonded around the PM Z ion at a plurality of coordination points, and has the form in which at least one, preferably two, of the carboxy groups are replaced by a functional amide group of the form wherein n is an integer from 0 to 18. This serves to chemically isolate the PM Z ion from the The functional amide may be a homo diamide or a hetero diamide. The Amide DTPA PM contrast agent is dispensed in a pharmaceutically acceptable vehicle means such as water. The carbon hydrogen portion of the amide compound becomes associated with water of hydration which increases the paramagnetic strength of the contrast agent. The PM ion may have a valence of 3 and produce a contrast agent molecule of zero net charge. The PM ion may have a valence of 2 and require an inert cation IN having an atomic charge to produce a molecule with a zero net charge. The paramagnetic metal ion PM Z is at least one element selected from Transition Elements 24 29 or the Lanthanide Elements 57 71. The invention is further illustrated with reference to the accompanying drawings in which The paramagnetic contrast agents of the present invention are amide homologs of the DTPA PM chelate, for example having the general chemical name diamido acetyl diethylenetriaminetriacetic acid or Diamide DTPA . The probable physical chelation structure of Diamide DTPA PM is a classic octahedron 8 faces, 6 apexes as shown in Figure 1A. The Diamide DTPA homologs are strong chelators having six polar bond coordination points 104 three nitrogen points 104 N and three oxygen points 104 0 which enclose the paramagnetic ion PM Z on all sides. Diamide DTPA PM has the general chemical structure shown in Figure 1B. The homologs thereof have similar structures with a specific number n of carbons in the carbon hydrogen portion of the amide group. The number of carbons in the methylene CH₂ chain between the CONH active group and the terminal methylene CH₃, is n 1 . In Diamide DTPA PM two of the original five acetic acid groups of DTPA have become amide groups A . In general Diamide DTPA PM 2A DTPA PM where A is a general amide group of the form and PM is a paramagnetic metal ion. The elimination of the two carboxyl groups reduces the ion charge of the DTPA chelator from five to three. Paramagnetic ions having a valence of Z 3 as shown in Figure 1A and 1B, produce a diamide contrast agent of the general form Diamide DTPA PM 3 2A DTPA PM 3 . The particle osmolarity to paramagnetic molar relaxivity ratio for Diamide DTPA PM 3 type contrast agents Z 3 is 1 1. The Diamide DTPA PM Z contrast agents formed around paramagnetic metal ions having a charge of 3 can be prepared in highly concentrated solutions while retaining isotonicity with body fluids. The Schering DTPA PM 3 contrast agent has a particle to paramagnetic metal ion ratio of 3 1, and can only be made in isotonic solutions at substantially lower concentrations. Therefore, greater volumes of the Schering DTPA PM 3 contrast agent need be injected into animals or humans to obtain the same paramagnetic effect. Paramagnetic ions having a valence of Z 2, produce amide contrast agents of the general forms Diamide DTPA PM 2 , IN 2A DTPA PM 2 , IN where IN is a suitable inert ion, such as a simple mineral salt cation Na , Li , etc. or an organic ion such as methyl glucamine or N methyl glucamine, having a charge of plus one see Figure 1C . This Type II contrast agent also has a zero net charge as tabulated below The particle to paramagnetic ratio for the Diamide DTPA PM 2 ,IN contrast agents is 2 1, producing a low osmolarity impact. The above Diamide DTPA PM Type III and Type II contrast agents have a paramagnetic effect similar to the Schering DTPA PM contrast agent. For example, Methyl Amide DTPA Gd III requires a concentration of about 3.31 mM to produce a T1 relaxation time of 67 msec 10 MHz field strength, using an RADX . The concentration of Schering DTPA Gd III required to produce a similar result is about 3.16. Methyl Amide DTPA Gd III has about the same paramagnetism as Schering s DTPA Gd III contrast agent. Possibly the water of hydration 108 see Figure 1A which collects around the amide CH₂ chains offers a reliable source of protons H 110 for resonating with the applied MR fields. Protons 110 have a high probability of being present within the local magnetic field of the PM ions. These protons form a class of protons for MR imaging which is distinct from random in vivo protons. The prolonged association time of bound water 108, and the close proximity of protons 110 to the PM ion, establishes a definite and distinct T1 relaxation time which is longer than the T1 for random protons. As a result, protons 110 provided by the water of hydration appear at a higher intensity in the MR image. A general anhydride diamide method, as illustrated in Figures 2 and 3, is suitable for making each homolog of the amide family of Amide DTPA PM contrast agents. In the example below the paramagnetic ion is provided by Fe III Cl₃, for chelation into dimethylamide n 1 . However, other paramagnetic ions in other forms may be employed for chelation into other amide homologs. Water is a suitable vehicle for dissolving the lower homologs of Diamide DTPA PM n less than 10 . Higher homologs are hydrophobic and form an emulsion with water. These higher homologs have the same density as water and therefore do not settle out. The isodense character of the homologs of Diamide DTPA PM permits a wide range of water homolog ratios. The amide family of DTPA PM contrast agents include the homo diamides n n structure and the hetero diamides n not equal to n structure. The hetero diamides may have one short CH₂ chain n 1 or more , and one long CH₂ chain n 18 or less . A single long hydrophobic chain, together with the charged DTPA moiety, renders the chelate an isosteric substitute for fatty acids and produces substantial tissue levels of the chelate in these organs which have efficient fatty acid uptake systems such as the myocardium. Venously introduced contrast agents are immediately distributed throughout the circulatory system for imaging. Organs such as the kidney, brain, liver, and heart receive substantial blood flow and provide selective images which are agent enhanced. Amide DTPA PM has a prolonged circulation time due to its high stability. The Amide DTPA PM contrast agent is less affected by enzyme degradation than simple ion DTPA chelates Schering . In addition, the higher homologs of Amide DTPA PM tend to be less polar and to bind more to serum proteins, further increasing their circulation time. They tend to be extracted from circulation by the liver and excreted in the hepatobiliary system. The amide contrast agent passes through the bile duct controlled by the ampulla of Vater and is absorbed into the colon. The Amide DTPA PM contrast agents are suitable for imaging the hepatobiliary gall bladder system. Figure 4A is a cross sectional view of the colon 440. The biamide DTPA PM contrast agent appearing along the convoluted inner surface of the colon wall 442 is slowly brushed away by the luminal content 444. The high viscosity of the contrast agent prevents it from immediately mixing with the luminal content 444. Because the washout rate is slower than the excretion rate, the agent accumulates in a film or layer 446 along the inner surface of colon 440. The paramagnetic properties of Amide DTPA PM enriched layer 446 establishes a shorter T1 relaxation time for the local protons within the layer. In the resulting MR image, Amide DTPA PM layer 446 is displayed at a higher intensity, highlighting the inner surface of the colon 440. Surface highlighted images are particularly useful in studying those disease processes involving changes in mucosal transit such as malabsorption, non tropical sprue, ulcerative colitis and regional enteritis. The luminal content is not amide enriched and appears grey or dark unenhanced along with the background tissue. Figure 4B shows a schematic MR image of the colon in cross section, and Figure 4C shows a schematic MR image of the colon in perspective. Both simple planar views and the complex perspective views can be computer generated from the MR data. The surface amide accumulation 446 appears bright and outlines of the inner surface colon 440 unimpedded by the luminal content. This surface effect is especially noticeable in perspective view 4C which reveals the front surface 448 F, and both the unocculted back surface 448 B and occulted back surface 448 0. The thin amide layer 446 on the front surface has a transparent characteristic which permits the occulted back surface to be viewed. The display intensity of the region of overlap between the front surface 448 F and occulted back surface 448 0 is the summation of the separate intensities. The lower homologs tend to be more polar and remain in solution longer. These homologs are kidney selective and suitable for imaging the kidney, ureter, and bladder. The higher homologs are fatty acid analogs and are thus extracted by the heart along with the regular fatty acids. These homologs n 7 and greater are cardiac selective and suitable for imaging the cardiac system and cardiac related functions. Oral introduction of the Diamide DTPA PM contrast agent requires a higher volume. The agent fills the luminal channel of the digestive system for providing a volume or bulk MR image. The stable powder state of the Diamide DTPA PM contrast agents have an indefinite shelf life, and is the preferred state for shipping and storage. The contrast agent in water solution or other solvent is packaged in small storage vials, and frozen under a vacuum. The low pressure sublimates the solvent, leaving crystals of the contrast agent. The vial is sealed to prevent entry of external contaminants, and to to preserve the internal vacuum. The resulting freeze dried, vacuum sealed powder, is highly stable and free from environmental degradation effects. Prior to injection, the stable powdered contrast agent may be raised to the pharmacological state by the addition of a suitable solvent such as water, serum, albumin solutions, or saline. A typical injectable composition contains about 10mg human serum albumin 1 percent USP Parke Davis and from 10 to 500 micrograms of Diamide DTPA PM material per milliliter of 0.01 M phosphate buffer pH 7.5 containing 0.9 percent NaCl. The pH of the aqueous solutions may range between 5 9, preferably between 6 8. The storage vial may have twin compartments containing the desired amounts of powdered Diamide DTPA PM and solvent for a single application. When the seal between the compartments is broken, the Diamide DTPA PM goes into solution at the desired concentration for immediate use. The Diamide DTPA PM solution mixes readily with the in vivo fluids. The paramagnetic species PM may be any paramagnetic element, molecule, ion or compound having a combined valence of Z . Paramagnetic material PM includes at least one of the following elements Gd has the highest paramagnetic property but is costly and highly toxic in the free state. Placing the Gd within the chelator produces a physiologically tolerable form of Gd but also reduces paramagnetic effect of the Gd. The chelate structure tends to shield the paramagnetic ions and prevents close proximity to local H protons. Fe and Mn have a high paramagnetic property and excellent physiological tolerance. Both of these paramagnetic ions are normally present in the physiological environment. The magnetic resonance MR imaging system 500, shown in Figure 5 has two magnetic components which scan subject 504 for obtaining MR data enhanced by the presence of contrast agent 508. Bulk magnetic field Mz from Z field source 510 causes paramagnetic particles such as local hydrogen protons within the subject to align with the Z axis. Periodic or rotating field Mxy from XY field generator 514 extends between XY electrodes 516. The subject to be scanned is positioned on support platform 520 and moved through the magnetic fields by drive 522. Rotating field Mxy is tuned to cause resonant precession of the local protons within the tissue of interest. Each local proton precesses about the Z axis in response to a particular frequency of rotating field Mxy. When rotating field Mxy is removed, the precessing protons decay back into alignment with Mz. The decay period of the local protons spin lattice relaxation time T1 varies between organs and between conditions within the same organ. Tumor tissue tends to have a longer T1 than healthy tissue. The presence of the paramagnetic metal ions PM causes a shortening of the proton T1, without substantially affecting T2 spin spin relaxation time . The energy of precession is released forming a free induction signal. Grid detector 526 senses the decay signals which are stored and processed by data processer system 530, to form an image 532 on monitor 536. The metal ions in the contrast agent are not directly imaged by the MR system. The imaging system is further disclosed in Scientific American, May 1982, pages 78 88, and NMR A Primer for Medical Imaging by Wolf and Popp, Slack Book Division ISBN 0 943432 19 7 , which disclosures are hereby incorporated by reference. Figure 6 shows a method of imaging subject 504 with MR system 500 employing a paramagnetic contrast agent 508. Comparison or subtraction imaging, requires an initial step of providing data from a prior MR imaging, and the final step of subtraction comparing the prior MR image with the current MR image. A historical base line image from the subjects file may be employed as the prior image. Alternatively, a current MR image made without the use of a contrast agent may be employed. It will be apparent to those skilled in the art that the objects of this invention have been achieved as described hereinbefore by providing an improved physiologically tolerable contrast agents with a high stability, and a low toxicity. The contrast agent has a high paramagnetic effect due to the amide water of hydration, and a low osmolarity due to the amide bonding. The variability of the amide structure permits a range of vivo response and organ selection, including surface selectivity of the colon.