# Roller suspension apparatus for a belted vehicle.

## Abstract
The roller suspension has a pair of arms 34, 36 and a force transmitting beam 40 pivotally connected to a single pivot shaft 32 . The mounting surfaces 46, 50, 51 to which a pair of springs 42 are attached are then arranged relative to the pivot shaft such that substantially only compressive forces are imparted to the springs. Thus, the shock absorbing potential of the springs is fully utilized.

## Claims
1 A roller suspension apparatus 10 adapted for use on a belted vehicle 12 having a frame 143 comprising a single pivot shaft 32 adapted to be connected to the vehicle frame 14 a pair of arms 34,36 each pivotally connected at one end to the pivot shaft 32 and extending in opposite directions from the pivot shaft 32 , each of said arms 34,36 having a mounting surface 46 at a distal end portion 48 thereof a pair of roller mechanisms 38 individually connected to the distal end portions 48 of said arms 34,36 a force transfer beam 40 pivotally connected at its mid portion to the pivot shaft 32 and having first and second mounting surfaces 50,51 individually generally facing a respective one of the mounting surfaces 46 of said arms 34,36 defining two pairs 46,50 46,51 of facing mounting surfaces and spring means 42 positioned between each pair of facing mounting surfaces 46,5D 45,51 in load bearing and force transfering relation and wherein said mounting surfaces 46,50,51 are arranged relative to the pivot shaft 32 so that sucstantially only compressive forces are transrritted to the spring means 42 upon movement of the noLflting suraces of each pair of facing mounting surfaces 46,50 A 6,51 toward one another. 2. Ihe roller suspension apparatus 10 as set forth in claim 1 herein the mounting surfaces of each pair of facing mounting surfaces define an acute angle B therebetween, said pivot shaft defines 2 axis A , ard a plane C bisecting the angle B passes substantially through the axis A 3. The roller suspension apparatus 10 as set forth in claim 2 wherein the mounting surfaces of each pair of facing mounting surfaces 46,50 46,51 are substantially parallel when the spring means 42 are in their fully compressed condition. 4. The roller apparatus 10 as set forth in claim 2 wherein each of said roller mechanisms 38 includes a walking beam 54 pivotally connected to the distal end portion 48 of one of the arms 3,36 , and a pair of roller assemblies 58 individually connectec to the ends of the walking beam 54 . 5. The roller suspension apparatus 10 as set forth in claim 2 wherein each of said arms 34,36 nas a stop surface 66 positioned for engac eTtent with one another and adapted to limit movement of the arms 34,36 in a direction causing movement of the mounting surfaces of each pair of facing mounting surfaces 46,50 46,51 away from one another. 6. The roller suspension apparatus 10 as set forth in claim 2 wherein said spring means i.2 includes a elastomer pad positioned between each pair of facing mounting surfaces 46,50 46,51 and connected to one of the mounting surfaces 46,50,51 . 7. The roller suspension M1,ar.us 10 as set forth in claim 2 wherein sa spring means 42 incluaes an air bag positioned between each pair of facing Iflountiny surfaces 46,50 46,gl and connected to one of the facing mounting surfaces 46,50,51 8. A roller suspension apparatus 10 adapted for use on a belted vehicle 12 having a frame 14 comprising a pair of arms 34,36 disposed in end to end relationship with each of said arms having a mounting surface 46 at an outer end portion 48 thereof a pair of roller mechanisms 38 individually connected to the outer end portions Z8 of said arms 34,46 a force transfer beam 40 generally overlying the arms 34,36 and having first and second mounting surfaces 50,51 individually generally facing a respective one of the mounting surfaces 46 of said arms and defining two pairs 46,50 46,51 of facing mounting surfaces spring means 42 positioned between each pair of facing mounting surfaces 46,50 46,51 in load bearing and force transferring relation and a single pivot shaft 32 having the inner ends of said arms 34,36 and the midportion of the force transfer beam 40 commonly pivotally connected thereto, said pivot shaft adapted to be connected to the vehicle frame. 9. me roller suspension apparatus 10 as set forth in claim 8 wherein the mounting surfaces of each pair of facing amounting surfaces define an acute ankle B therebetween, said pivot shaft defines an axis A , and a plane C bisecting the angle 3 passes substantially through the axis A J rt forth in claim ss wherein the mouting SLIY S Qf each pair of facing mounting surfaces 46,50 46,51 are substantially parallel when the spriny means 42 are in there fully compressed condition. 11. The roller suspension apparatus 10 as set forth in claim 8 wherein the mounting surfaces 46,50,51 are arranged relative to the pivot snaft 32 so that the mounting surfaces of each pair of facing mounting surfaces move in substantially the same arcuate pathway 68 .

## Description
holler SurDcns on Annaratu for a Belted Vehicle This invention relates generally to a roller suspension apparatus and more particularly to such an apparatus in which substantially only compressive forces are imposed upon a spring. Many track roller and tandem wheel support systems use a resilient elastomer pad between the ends of a pair of pivotal arms for absorbing shock loads.The elastomer pads are normally connected to one or both of the arms. One such suspension system is shown in U.S. Patent 3,323,811 which issued to J. M. Nelson on January 12, 1965. That patent shows a pair of radius arms each having an end pivotally connected to a bracket by separate pins while a walking beam is pivotally secured at its mid point to the bracket by another pin. A wheel is rotatably carried at the distal end of the radius arms. Resilient pad springs are positioned between the distal ends of the radius arms and the end of the walking beam. Thus, an upward force on one wheel is transmitted to the springs so that a downward force is imparted to the other wheel. One of the problems associated with that suspension system is that three separate pins are used to pivotally connect the radius arms and walking beam to the supporting bracket thereby adding to the cost of the structure. Another problem is that a particular geometry thereof induces a component of shear in the springs when a compressive force is imposed thereon due to a load being applied to one of the wheels. Such shear induced into the springs is deleterious to the suspension system and or the operation thereof. The present invention is directed to overcoming one o, more of the problems as set forth above. In one aspect of the present invention a roller suspension apparatus for use on a belted vehicle having a frame includes a single pivot shaft adapted to be connected to the vehicle frame. A pair of arms are each pivotally connected at one end to the pivot shaft and extend in opposite directions from the pivot shaft. Each of the arms has a mounting surface at a distal end portion thereof. A pair of roller mechanisms are individually connected to the distal end portions of the arms. A force transfer bear is pivotally connected at its mid portion to the pivot shaft and has first and second mounting surfaces individually generally facing a respective one of the mounting surfaces of the arms defining two pairs of facing mounting surfaces.A spring means is positioned between each pair of facing mounting surfaces in load bearing and force transferring relation. 1E mounting surfaces are arranged relatively to the pivot shaft so that substantially only compressive forces are transmitted to the spring means upon movement of the mounting surfaces of each pair of facing mounting surfaces toward one another. The problem of shear forces being transtritted to the springs positioned between the pivotal arms of roller or tandem wheel suspension systems is solved by the present invention by pivotally connecting the arms and the force transfer beam to a single pivot shaft and positioning the mounting surfaces, to which the springs are connected, relative to the pivot shaft such that the mounting surfaces move in the same arcuate path when one of the mounting surfaces moves toward the other mounting surface. By so doing, substantially only compressive forces are transmitted to the springs during such movement of the mounting surfaces.Brief Description of the L rawings Fig. 1 is a side elevational view of a vehicle incluaing an embodiment of the present invention. Fig. 2 is an enlarged side elevational view of a portion of Fig. 1. Fig. 3 is a cross sectional view taken along line 111 Ill of Fig. 2. Fig. 4 is a cross setional view taken along line IV IV of Fig. 2. Fig. 5 is a view similar to Fig. 2 with components thereof in a loaded condition. Referring now to the drawings, a roller suspension apparatus is generally indicated by the reference numeral 10 in association with a work vehicle 12. The work vehicle has a longitudinally extending main frame 14 and a propulsion system 16 residing generally beneath and in supporting relation to the frame 14. The propulsion system 16 includes an endless, inextensible track or belt 18 encircling longitudinally spaced front end rear wheels disposed on one side of the vehicle. In the present er bodi icnt, the front wheel 20 is a non driving wheel and includes an elastomeric inflatable carcass 24 mounted on a rim 26. The rear wheel 22 is the driving wheel and consists of a drum 28 having a layer of elastomer 30 bonded thereto. the roller suspension a W 10 is disposed intermediate the front and rear wheels 20, 22 for distributively transmitting a portion of the vehicle load imposed on the vehicle main frame to the belt 18. The roller suspension apparatus includes single pivot shaft 32, a pair of arms 34, 36, a pair of roller mechanisms 38, a force transfer beam 40, and a pair of spring means 42. As more clearly shown in Figs. 2 and 3, the pivot shaft 32 is rigidly connected to the main frame 14 by a mounting bracket 43 and defines a pivot axisA. Each of the arms 34, 36 has a bifurcated end 44, 45 respectively pivotally connected to the pivot shaft 32 and extend in opposite directions therefrom. Each of the arms has a planar mounting surface 46 provided thereon at a distal or outer end portion 48 thereof. The force transfer beam 40 is pivotally connected at its mid portion to the pivot shaft 32 and generally overlies the arms 34, 36. The beam has first and second planar mounting surfaces 50, 51 in ividually generally facing a respective one of the mount inc surfaces 46 of the arms 34, 36.The first mounting surface 50 and the mounting surface 46 on the arm 34 define a first pair of facing mounting surfaces while the secona mounting surface 51 and the mounting surface 46 on the arm 36 define a second pair of facing mounting surfaces. The spring means 42 are positioned between and connected to the mouhthing surface 46, 50, and 51 for biasingly transmitting forces exerted on the forte transfer beam 40 by one arm 34 or 36 to the other arm 34 or 36. The spring means 42 can include either a single elastomer pad, a plurality of elastomer pads or an inflatable air bags positioned between the facing mounting surfaces. Each of the spring means includes a portion 52 suitably secured to the respective mounting surfaces 46, 50, and 51. Each of the roller mechanisms 38 includes a ling beam 54 pivotally connected to the distal end portion 48 of the arms 34 and 36 by a pivot pin 56. A pair of roller assemblies 58 are connected to the ends or the walking beam 54. As more clearly shown on Fig. each of the roller assemblies 58 includes a pair of waverally spaced rollers 60 rotatably connected to an axle 62 which is rigidly connected to a bracket 64 connected to the end of the walking beam 54. The rollers 60 rollingly engage the interior belt surface of tfle lower belt run. Alternatively, each of the roller mechanisms 38 coi be replaced with a single roller assembly 5S wherein the bracket 64 would be connected directly to the distal end portion 48 of the respective arms 34, 36. Each of the arms 34, 36 has a stop surface 66 positioned for engagement with one another to limit movement of the arms 34, 36 in a direction causing the mounting surfaces 46 to move away from the mounting surfaces 50, 51. The mounting surfaces of each pair of facing mounting surfaces 46,50 46,51 define an acute ankle B therebetween. A plane illustrated by the line C bisecting the angle B passes through the axis of the pivot shaft 32. This causes the sounting portions 52 to move in the same arcuate pathway generated about the axis A as illustrated by the broken lines GE onFig. 2.A convergent point D of the angle B is preferrably disposed at the side of the axis A opposite to the side at which the mounting surfaces defining the angle B are disposed. l his permits the angle B to be relatively small and thereby minimizes unequal loacing on the spring means 42 caused by the mounting surfaces being angled relative to one another. Industrial Dplicahili In use, the roller suspension system 10 distributes the weight load e ually through the rollers 60 to the belt 18. lhe arms 34, 36 transmit equal forces to the belt 18 for all conditions whether the forces originate from the vehicle weight, loads exerted on the vehicle, or a combination thereof. In forward operation of the vehicle, for example, when the belt 18 under the rollers 60 of the leading roller assembly 58 initially engages an object protruding from the surface, the leading roller assembly is raised. Tnis causes the leading walking beam 54 to pivot about the pivot pin 56 and applies a downward force onto the rollers 60 o. the second trailing roller assembly. Consequently, there is a longitudinal load sharing between the rollers 60 of the two leading assemblies 58 supported on the coramon walking beam 54. The raising of the leading roller 6C and eventually the second roller 60 also causes the arm 34 to pivot about the pivot shaft 32 and thereby transmit a compressive force to the spring means 42 between the mounting surface 46 and the mounting surface 50 of the force transfer beam 40 so as to case pivoting of the force transfer beam in a counterclockwise cirection about the pivot shaft 32. Such pivoting of the force transfer beam 40 transfers the increased force and motion through the trailing spring means 42, the arm 36, and the rollers 60 of the trailing roller mechanism 38 to the portion of the belt 18 beneath the trailing rollers 60.As such, longitudinal load sharing between arms 34 and 36 is provided to augment the longitucinal load sharing between the rollers 60 rounted to the leasing walking beam 54. Of course as te railing rollers 60 pass over t protruding Jbrectf the force transfer beam 40 pivots clockwise to transmit motion and forces in the opposite direction to that previously described. The mounting surfaces 46, 50 and 51 are srewerrably arranged relative to the pivot shaft 32 so that substantially only compressive forces are tr nsmitted to the spring means 42 upon relative movement of the mounting surfaces of each pair of facing mounting surfaces 46,50 46,51 toward one another. As illustrated in Fig. 2, clockwise pivotal movement of the arm 36 about the shaft 32 causes the mounting portion 52 of the spring means 42 connected to the mounting surface 46 of the arm 36 to move in an arcuate path indicated by the broken lines 68.Since the mounting part ion 52 connected to the mounting surface 51 is positioned in the projected arcuate path of movement of the mounting portion 52 connected to the arm, only compressive forces are transmitted to the spring means 32. Moreover as more clearly illustrated in Fig. 5 at the maximum loaded condition of the spring means 42, the facing mounting surfaces 46,50 46,51 are substantially parallel to one another. As such, the spring means 42 are uniformally stressed so that maximum utilization of the spring force is achieves. In view of the foregoing, it is readily apparent that the structure of the present invention provides an improve roller suspension system in which sustantially only compressive forces are imparred to the spring means during operation. This is accomplished by positioning the mounting surfaces, to hitch the springs are attached, relative to the pivot shaft so that the connections between the spring and the mounting surface fall in a coincidential arcutate pathway