# Scanning recording type printing method and apparatus for realizing the same

## Claims
Abtastendes Laserstrahl Druckverfahren zur Aufzeichnungeines Mehrfarbenbilds, wobei die Intensität einer Farbe einesPixels durch Wahl der Größe eines in dem entsprechenden Pixelaufzuzeichnenden Punkts dieser Farbe wiedergegeben wird, mitfolgenden Schritten

## Description
This invention relates to a laser beam color printing method and an apparatus for realizing thesame and in particular to a scanning recording type printing method and an apparatus for realizing thesame permitting to reduce worsening of the image quality in a high precision fine image recording. As a method for varying the recording area of each pixel in order to express light and shade of theimage in a scanning recording type printing apparatus, there is known a method, by which image recordingpulse signals are modulated in pulse width by means of data representing the depth. Apparatusesdescribed in Japanese Patent Application un examined publications Nos. 82 57679 and 82 99866 are itsconcrete examples. In such a printing recording apparatus it is necessary to reduce each cell in size and increase the pixeldensity in order to be able to record an image with a high precision and a high fineness. The scanningdirection and the size of each pixel in the scanning recording are determined by the scanning speed andthe production period of the image recording pulse signal Consequently, in order to make each pixelsmaller, the production period of the image recording pulse signal must be shortened and the rate of theintermission must be increased. However, when the rate of the intermission of the image recording pulsesignal is increased. The image quality has a tendence to be lowered. In Fig. 2 a memory device 1 stores depth data of each of the pixels in image signals coming from animage read out device or a computer not shown in the figure for one scanning line. The depth data aresent to a latcn 2 in the form of pixel depth data DA for every pixel, depending on the position of recordingscanning by a pixel clock signal PCLK1 given by a timing treatment circuit 4, which will be described later.Supposing that the pixel depth is represented by 16 degrees from 0 white to 15 black , the pixeldepth data DA are 4 bit data. In a pixel recording pulse signal generation circuit 9 the latch 2 holds latches the pixel depth data DA by a pixel clock signal PCLK2 given by the timing treatment circuit 4 and itsholding period of time is equal to a period of time during which one pixel domain is scanned for recording.These pixel depth data DA held by the latch 2 are given to a comparator 5. A counter 3 which is a cyclic 4bit binary counter, counts clock signals CLK1 coming from a clock generator 10 under the control by arecording scanning signal LINE1 from the timing treatment circuit 4. 16 clock signals CLK1 are outputted fora period of time during which one pixel domain is scanned for recording. The counter 3 counts up from 0 white to 15 black and gives the content of the count as comparison data DB to the comparator 5. Atthe same time it gives a carry signal as pixel clock signal PCLK3 to the timing treatment circuit 4. Thetiming treatment circuit 4 generates the pixel clock signals PCLK1 and PCLK2, referring to the pixel clocksignal PCLK3 and at the same time uses a detection signal LINE2 coming from a laser beam detector 8 asa recording scanning start synchronization signal for every scanning line. The comparator 5 compares the pixel depth data DA with the comparison data DB and generates a 2 valuepixel recording pulse signal S, corresponding to Figs. 1 A to 1 C indicates a timing chart representing the working mode of the pixel recording pulsesignal and the pixel recording in such a laser beam printer. A indicates the pixel number and the pixeldepth data DA. The abscissa t in B represents the time, in which T denotes the period of time necessaryfor scanning to record one pixel. The coordinate represents digital values corresponding to pixel depths, inwhich 0 indicates white 15 indicates black DA shows the pixel depth data and DB shows thecomparison data. The abscissa x in C represents the position of the recording scanning of the laser beamand hatched regions show the recorded area for each of the pixels. In such a recording method, since the laser beam outputted by the semiconductor laser circuit 6 has acertain spread in the scanning direction, when this laser beam is interrupted by the pixel recording pulsesignal S in the course of the scanning, the light quantity at both the border portions of the recorded dots inthe main scanning direction on the pixel recording surface is inconveniently in an intermediate regionbetween white and black and thus the depth of the record at these portions is unstable, what is a factorlowering the image quality. This is produced by the fact that the laser beam has a certain spread.Consequently, when, in order to record finer image with a high precision, pixels are made smaller and thenumber of interruptions of the laser beam is increased, the proportion of such unstable regions increases, what gives rise to lowering the image quality. On the other hand, in the color printing by off set printing, it is difficult to position net points i.e. dots to be printed with a high precision. For example, in the case of a multi block pnnting with 4 blocks of cyan,yellow, magenta and Indian ink, when it is tried to superpose corresponding dots of different blocks on eachother, slight misalignment produces Moiré fringes interference fringes . Therefore, in practice, the screenangles of net points of different blocks are intentionally varied appreciably so that the net points of differentcolors are superposed at random, in order to prevent the production of low frequency Moiré fringes.However, by this method, superposition of dots of different colors is irregular, what prevents to effecttheoretical color correction. To the contrary, in a digital printer such as a laser beam printer, etc., since it is possible to positionfairly precisely dots, even when it is tried to superpose corresponding dots of different blocks on eachother, there are produced no Moiré fringes. An article by SAYANAGI published in Denshi Shashin Gakkaishi Journal of the Electro GraphicSociety 23, No. 3 1984 in Japanese has disclosed a concentric solution model , by which the dots areprinted by a digital printer so that their centers are superposed on each other cf. Fig. 3 A and reportedthat 100 under color removal UCR is possible by this method cf. Fig. 3 B . If this concentric solutionmodel could be realized ideally, a perfect UCR 100 UCR and other various color correction theorieswould be efficacious. However, this concentric solution model has not taken the following points intoconsideration. To avoid the problems discussed above in connection with Figures 1A to C and Figure 2, US 4 040094 describes a video signal processing circuit in which alinear, alternatively increasing and decreasing comparison signal is used instead of the sawtooth shapedsignal DD in Figure 1B. However, this circuit is not suitable for processing colour images withoutdeteriorating the resolution. It is therefore the object of the invention to provide a printing method and apparatus of the laser beam scanningtype which prints high quality colour images. The solution of this object is defined in method claim 1 and apparatus claim 4.By producing the rear end of the recording pulse signal of the preceding recording side pixel in a pair of pixelsjust at the rear end of that pixel and the front end of the recording pulse signal of the succeeding recordingside pixel just at the front end of the succeeding pixel so that the production of the recording energybetween this pair of pixels is continuous and by making the region, where the recording depth is unstable,smaller, worsening of the image quality is reduced. The pixel is the smallest unit of spatial resolving power, when an original analogue image is quantized digitalized and in general it is defined so as to be sufficiently small. In a digital printer however, many netpoints are formed in this pixel and wherever the net points are written in this pixel, no differencestherebetween can be recognized by a human eye. In other words, within a pixel, wherever the net pointsare moved, the movement itself doesn t lower the resolving power. For example, in the case where a pixelis large, the Bayer method is adopted, by which one pixel is represented by many small net points dots ,or a net point is formed at a position deviated from the center of the pixel in order to have a screen angle.According to this invention, attention is paid to this point and in full color printing by multi block printing, thenet points dots of each of the colors formed within one pixel are not concentrated to one point, which isthe center of the pixel, contrarily to those in the concentric solution model, but they are suitably arrangedwithin the pixel for every color. In this way superposition of the net points of different colors can be controlled and as the result a high quality full color printing can be effected. Figs. 1 D , E and F , G are timing charts illustrating the working mode of the production of the pixelrecording pulse signal and the pixel recording for one of the colors. D shows the working mode of the production of the pixel recording pulse signal using the comparisonbetween pixel depth data DA and comparison data DB, in which the magnitude of the comparison data DBvaries so that it increases in the odd pixel number regions and decreases in the even pixel number regions.In this way, the position of production of the pixel recording pulse signal S generated by comparing thepixel depth data DA with the comparison data is so determined that in the odd pixel number regions thefront end of the pixel recording pulse signal is in accordance with the front end of the pertinent pixel and inthe even pixel number regions the rear end of the pixel recording pulse signal S is in accordance with therear end of the pertinent pixel, i.e. the rear end of the recorded dot in the main scanning direction and thusin the example indicated in the figure the pixels No. 2 and No. 3, and No. 4 and No. 5 become continuous.Consequently, in the recording pixels recorded on the basis of this pixel recording pulse signal, as indicatedin E , the pixels No. 2 and No. 3, and No. 4 and No. 5 are continuous, respectively, and thus there are noborder portions in the scanning direction between the pixels belonging to each of the pairs. Therefore theunstable region becomes smaller. F shows an example, where the magnitude of the comparison data DB decreases in the odd pixelnumber regions and increases in the even pixel number regions. In the recording pixels of this case, asindicated in G , the pixels No. 1 and No. 2, and No. 3 and No. 4 are continuous. Now the pixel recording pulse signal production circuit used for such a pixel recording will be explained.The production of the pixel recording pulse signal by the comparison between the pixel depth data DA andthe comparison data DB, as previously indicated in Fig. 1 D can be effected by ameliorating the circuitgenerating the comparison data DB indicated in Fig. 2. Therefore, here this circuit generating thecomparison data DB will be explained and explanation of the other circuits will be omitted. Further, eachoutput terminal of each of the circuits and the signals produced are denoted with same reference numerals. In Fig. 4, a counter 13 is a hexadecimal counter, which counts clock signals CLK1 inputted from a clockgenerator 10 to its clock terminal CLK. The recording scanning signal LINE1 outputted by the timingtreatment circuit 4 is at the high level during the recording scanning. The counter 13 stated above countsthe clock signals CLK1, when this recording scanning signal LINE1 inputted to the clear terminal CLR is atthe high level and it is cleared to 0 , when the signal LINE1 is at the low level. The output signal Q In the construction of the circuit described above, when the recording scanning signal LINE1 outputtedfrom the timing treatment circuit 4 is at the high level, the counter 13 counts the clock signals CLK1 givenby the clock generator 10 and increases the value of the counting output signal Q The comparison data DB repeats its increase and decrease, as indicated in Fig. 1 D , by the fact thatsuch operations are repeated in a period of time, during which the recording scanning signal LINE1 is at thehigh level. Such a comparison data production circuit has an advantage that a high speed operation is possiblewith respect to the case where the counter 13 counts up and down. Then it is possible to obtain the pixel recording pulse signal for effecting the pixel recording, asindicated in Fig. 1 E , while comparing the magnitude of the comparison data DB thus obtained with that ofthe pixel depth data DA. In addition, when the output signal Q Furthermore, the comparison data production circuit indicated in Fig. 4 is provided further with acounter 11 and a monostable multi vibrator hereinbelow abbreviated to MM 16 block indicated by abroken line . It is possible to vary the screen angle. When a recording operation begins, the timingtreatment circuit 4 outputs a high level signal and when the operation is terminated, a printing signal PAGEis produced. The counter 11 is a 2 bit binary counter, in which, when its counting value reaches 3 , thecarry signal Car becomes high, and screen angle data SD are loaded, when the printing signal PAGE is low.When the carry signal Car of the counter 11 is low, the FF 12 is preset. As the result, since the dataselector 14 selects and outputs the signal at the input A, the initial value of the comparison data DB is 0 .To the contrary, when the carry signal Car is high, the FF 12 is cleared. As the result, since the dataselector 14 selects and outputs the signal at the input B, the initial value of the comparison data DB is 15 . When the recording of one scanning line is terminated, the recording scanning signal LINE1 becomeslow, the counter 11 counts up. In the case where the counting value of the counter 11 varies as 0 1 , 1 2 , since the carry signal Car remains low, when the recording scanning signal LINE1 is changed tothe low level and the MM 16 is triggered so that a short pulse signal is produced at its output terminal Q Figs. 5 H P are timing charts showing the operation of production of the pixel recording pulse signalS controlled by this circuit and the pixel recording, in which H and I represent a case where the screenangle data SD are 3 , H showing the operation of production of the pixel recording pulse signal, I illustrating a pixel recording pattern by means of the pixel recording pulse signal, which is obtained as theresult of the operation indicated in I . The abscissa corresponds to the recording scanning direction, whereit represents the time in H and the scanning position in I , but it is indicated here by the pixel number.The ordinate corresponds to the direction, along which the recording medium is sent, in which it representsthe time in H and the transfer amount in I , but it is indicated here by the scanning line number. Further,for the ordinate, the counting value of the counter 11 is written together therewith. J and K show the casewhere the screen angle data SD are 2 L and M the case where the screen angle data SD are 1 and N and O the case where the screen angle data SD are 0 . In the case where the screen angle data SD are 3 , since the counting value of the counter 11 isalways 3 as indicated in Fig. 5 H and thus the carry signal Car of the counter 11 is always at the highlevel, the FF 12 is preset every time the level of the recording scanning signal LINE1 becomes low.Consequently the initial value of the comparison data DB for every scanning line is 15 and the sameoperation of production of the pixel recording pulse signal as indicated in Fig.1 F is repeated. As the resultthe pixel recording pattern for each of the scanning lines based on the pixel recording pulse signal thusobtained is such that the pixels of pixel numbers 1 and 2, and 3 and 4 are continuous, as indicated in Fig.5 I . In the case where the screen angle data SD are 2 , since the counting value of the counter 11 variesin the order of the scanning line number 2 , 3 , 2 , 3 , ..., as indicated in Fig. 5 J , the carry signal Carof the counter 11 repeats to be at the low and high levels alternately and therefore the initial value of the FF12 for each of the scanning lines is alternately clear , preset , clear , ... in the order of the scanning linenumber. Consequently the initial value of the comparison data DB for each of the scanning lines is 0 ,when the scanning line number is odd, and 15 , when the scanning line number is even. As the result thesame operations of production of the pixel recording pulse signal as indicated in Figs. 1 D and F ,respectively, are alternately repeated. Consequently, for the scanning line having an odd number, asindicated in Fig. 5 K , pixels of pixel numbers 2 and 3, 4 and 5 form pairs and their pixel recording iscontinuous. To the contrary, for the scanning line having an even number, the pixel recording of the pixelsnumber 1 and 2, 3 and 4 is continuous. In the case where the screen angle data SD are 1 , the counting value of the counter 11 repeats asame pattern as 1 , 2 , 3 , 1 , 2 , 3 , ..., as indicated in Fig. 5 L . Consequently, since the initialvalue of the comparison data DB for each of the scanning lines repeats 0 , 0 , 15 , ... in the order of thescanning line number, the pixel recording pattern is such that it is indicated in Fig. 5 M . In the case where the screen angle data SD are 0 , the counting value of the counter 11 isrepresented by a repetition of 0 , 1 , 2 , 3 . Consequently, since the initial value of the comparisondata DB repeats 0 , 0 , 0 , 15 , ... in the order of the scanning line number, the pixel recording patternis such that it is indicated in Fig. 5 P . Comparing the pixel recording patterns indicated in Figs. 5 I , K , M and P , it can be understoodthat the screen angle of the recording pattern varies depending on the value of the screen angle data SD. In the embodiment described above, increase or decrease in the number of bits in the pixel depth dataDA, the comparison data DB and the screen angle data SD, modifications in the waveform of thecomparison data DB, e.g. modification into a form permitting to compensate γ characteristics of the printer,and further modifications of the method, by which the value of the screen angle data SD is set, are freelychosen. As explained above, since, in a pixel recording pulse signal generation method, by which depth data DAof each of pixels in an image signal are transformed into an image recording pulse signal having a timewidth proportional to the depth for each of the pixels and production of recording energy is controlled so asto be interrupted by the image recording pulse signal, the recording pulse signal is so produced that therear end of the recording pulse signal of the preceding recording side pixel in a pair of pixels adjacent to anarbitrarily selected pixel in the recording scanning direction is in accordance with the rear end of thearbitrarily selected pixel and the front end of the recording pulse signal of the succeeding recording sidepixel is in accordance with the front end of the arbitrarily selected pixel, production of recording energy iscontinuous between the pixels of these pairs, that is, the ratio of the areas of the unstable regions statedabove can be reduced so that the factor lowering the image quality produced by interruptions of therecording energy and thus lowering of the image quality are alleviated. Figs. 3 C and D are schemes illustrating the principle of 100 UCR. Fig. 3 A indicates a cross sectional view of a structure, where yellow ink Y, magenta ink M and cyanink C are printed in this order on a white paper sheet concentrically at a net point so that they aresuperposed on each other. A Δ sign in Fig. 3 indicates a boundary between two adjacent pixels. Fig. 3 B indicates the same structure, for which 100 UCR is effected according to the concentric solution motelAs indicated in the figure, all the parts, where the three colors, yellow, magenta and cyan are superposedon each other so as to represent black points, are replaced by net points formed by black ink.Consequently, in the case where the net points dots of the three colors have a same size as the fourthpixel from the left, since they can be represented only by black net points dots , there is no color shear inprinting due to superposition of different colored inks and further the amount of used colored inks isrelatively small. Fig. 3 C illustrates an example, in which 100 UCR is effected. In this example, colored dots such asyellow. magenta, cyan, etc. are put to the left within the pixel and only black dots are put to the right. Whendots are printed in this way, the black dots and colored ones are not superposed on each other bycalculation of 100 UCR. Consequently there are no colored inks, which have been used in vain underblack dots in the concentric solution model and the number of colored inks superposed on each other at adot is at most 2, what reduces transfer defectives. Furthermore, when colored dots are put to the left side corresponding to one end of the pixel in thescanning direction for the first pixel from the left the black dot is put to the right side corresponding to theother end of the pixel in the scanning direction to the contrary, for the second pixel adjacent to the firstpixel, the black dot is put to the left side and the colored dots are put to the right and so forth, that is. theposition of the colored dots and that of the black dot are replaced alternately for every pixel, as indicated inFig. 3 D , dots in two pixels adjacent to each other can be put together. When they are printed in this way, they become larger in appearance and thus the central portion of thedots can be used with a higher efficiency. Further, at the same time, in this manner, since printing becomesless sensitive to shear of different colors in printing, it is possible to realize a color reproduction with a highfidelity having no Moiré fringes. Fig. 6 shows top views of the surface of the paper sheet for the embodiment of this invention indicatedin Fig. 3 D . Fig. 3 D is reproduced at the first line of Fig. 6. The first pixel is divided from the left of the pixel into four parts, i.e. a part printed double with cyan inkand yellow ink, a part printed only with cyan ink, a blanc part and a part printed only with black ink. Sincethe second pixel begins from the left by a black part, the black part of the first pixel and that of the secondpixel are jointed together. On the whole it seems that black parts and colored parts are arranged alternately.When this procedure of arrangement is changed also for every line as indicated in the figure, the wholeprint is equivalent in appearance to a dot printing having a screen angle of 45 . The 5 th and 6 th lines inFig. 6 illustrate a formation of dots, which is closer to the real image. Fig. 7 is a block diagram showing the construction of a circuit, in which the embodiment of thisinvention indicated in Fig. 3 D is applied to a digital printer scanning continuously in the horizontal direction as in atelevision and Fig. 8 shows schemes for explaining its working mode. In Fig. 7 equivalent or identical itemsare represented by the same reference numerals as those used for the circuits indicated in Figs. 2 and 4. For explaining Figs. 7 and 8 more concretely, the depth of the data DA allocated to each of the pixels ofan image is represented by using e.g. a 3 bit number from 0 to 7 . Consequently intermediate tones canbe indicated by intermediate values among 8. An octal binary counter 13 and a pixel address counter of theframe memory 1, in which pixel data DA are stored, are cleared by the line synchronization signal LINE of adigital printer e.g. laser beam printer, semiconductorlaser printer 77. At the same time the flip flop hereinbelow abbreviated toFF 12 is set or preset depending on the phase data Car cf. Fig.4 . The counter 13 counts the reference clock CLK coming from a clock oscillator 10 so that its output increases starting from 0 . When the outputof the FF 12 is low, the data selector 14 outputs the output of the counter 13 as it is as the comparison dataDB, and when it is high, the data selector 14 outputs the reversed value of the output of the counter 13 asthe comparison data DB. Consequently, when the output of the FF 12 is low, the comparison data DBincrease from 0 to 7 and when it is high, the comparison data DB decreases from 7 to 0 . When thecontent of the counter 13 has reached 7 and returned again to 0 , the most significant bit MSB of theoutput of the counter 13 falls. Responding thereto, the memory 1 outputs the following pixel data and at thesame time the FF 12 is reversed. Since the selector 14 reverses the comparison data by the reverse of theFF 12, as the result the comparison data DB begin with 0 , when the phase data FD is low , and go andreturn between 0 and 7 . Therefore, they are such that they are indicated in Fig. 8 A . Further, when theFD are high , they begin with 7 and go and return between 0 and 7 . Therefore, they are such thatthey indicated in Fig. 8 C . On the other hand the pixel data DA outputted by the memory 1 areinputted in the comparator 5, where it is judged which are larger, the inputted pixel data DA or thecomparison data DB. There are two judgement outputs of the comparator 5. One of them is high , if DA DB, and the other is high , if DA DB. Only the latter is reversed so as to be a signal representing DA DB and both the signals are inputted in a data selector 73. The most significant bit MSB of the pixel dataDA is used as a selection signal in the selector 73, which outputs a signal, which is high if DA DB forthe DA from 0 to 3 , and if DA DB for the DA from 4 to 7 When this signal is imputted in a printer77, supposing that a black point is printed, if the VD is high and a white point is printed. if the VD is low, thearea ratio S of the black part printed within one pixe varies as indicated in the following table andintermediate tone printing can be effected. In general, when area modulation is effected by equally dividing the interior of a pixel into 2 Then, when the phase data is manipulated for every line or for every color, as indicated in Table 2, aprinting indicated in Fig. 6 can be effected. This circuit needs no memory such as pattern generator, etc. and its construction is simple and fit forhigh speed operation. In addition, since the number of modulations of the area modulation is 2 Furthermore, although the position of the dots printed within a pixel has been shifted to the left or to theright in the main scanning direction x , the same effects can be obtained, also when they are shifted in theup and down direction in the auxiliary direction y or when they are shifted both in the left and right and up and downdirections in the main scanning direction x and the auxiliary scanning direction y . An embodimentin this case will be explained below, referring to Figs. 9 to 11. This invention can be applied to a case where a printer is used, which can control the position of dotsarea modulated and printed within a pixel not only in the main scanning direction x but also in the auxiliaryscanning direction y. Fig. 9 is a scheme for explaining how dots of one of the colors are arranged in pixels not visible allocated on the surface of a paper sheet. Four types of dot positions, A, B, C and D, areconceivable on the basis of assumptions of a printer. In Fig. 9, there are five sorts of pixel data, i.e. from 0 to 4 , which are depth data allocated to the pixels. 0 represents white and 4 black all over .To the contrary 1 3 represent half tones between them. In the type A, the dot enlarges, starting fromthe up and right corner in the pixel, with increasing pixel data. In the types B, C and D the dot enlarges,starting from the up and left corner, the down and left corner and the down and the right corner of the pixel,respectively. Consequently the printer receives the pixel data and information on the type, which are thenrecorded, as indicated in Fig. 9. Fig. 10 indicates information given to the printer for every pixel, in the casewhere the pixel data and the information thus received are recorded in practice, and Fig. 11 illustrates therecording result. The type information indicating the dot position within the pixel is given alternately forevery pixel, such as A, B, A, B, ...., for the first line, as indicated in Fig. 10, and alternately for every pixel,such as D, C, D, C, ... for the second line. Further, on and after the third line, the type information for thefirst line and that for the second line are given alternately and repeatedly. As the pixel data arbitraryinformation of 0 4 is allocated to each of the pixels and this figure shows an example thereof. Theresult obtained by recording on a paper sheet is such that it is indicated in Fig. 11, where four dots in fourpixels, two adjacent pixels in the vertical direction and two adjacent pixels in the horitzontal direction, areprinted, as if they were gathered together at the centre so as to be one point. According to this embodiment, the number of dots is reduced to 1 4 without lowering the resolvingpower between different pixels. That is, the ratio of area of the unstable region stated above is lowered andthe worsening of the image quality is alleviated. Fig. 12 is a block diagram illustrating the construction of still another apparatus for realizing the methodaccording to this invention. The difference from the apparatus indicated in Fig. 7 consists in that theapparatus indicated in Fig. 12 is constructed by using a look up table memory 79 and a shift register 70contrarily to that a data selector 14 and a comparator 5 are used in the apparatus indicated in Fig. 7. Thememory 79 outputs an output pattern on the basis of the pixel data DA sent by the frame memory 1 and in pixel phase data DFD sent by the flip flop 12. The shift register 70 transforms it witn a high speed by aparallel serial transformation to form a video signal VDS. When the look up table is definec as follows. theapparatus works in the completely same manner as the apparatus indicated in Fig. 7. The look up table memory 79 see Fig. 13 used in this embodiment receives image data of 12 bits in total from theframe memories 1 Net point printing expresses, in general, colors by addition color mixing and subtraction color mixingand in general, their ratio cannot be determined unequivocally, even when a same color is expressed. For example, in the case where red having a reduced chromaticity is expressed, it can be obtained notby superposing two colors but by juxaposing them, as indicated in Fig. 14A, where magenta is put in theleft half and yellow is put in the right half. However it can be obtained also by superposing the two colors,magenta and yellow, in the left half region. The former represents an addition color mixing of magenta andyellow and the latter represents a subtraction color mixing of magenta and yellow. Of course anintermediate color mixing between them can be conceived. According to the method of this invention it ispossible to vary arbitrarily the ratio of these addition color mixing and subtraction color mixing. Either thesubtraction color mixing or the addition color mixing can be better, depending on used inks. Therefore, bymanipulating suitably this ratio of the subtraction color mixing and the addition color mixing by means ofthis apparatus, it is possible for inks to exhibit better their color expressivity and therefore a wide spreadcolor display can be obtained. As explained above, according to this invention, since the position of the dot of every color printed withina pixel can be shifted up and down or left and right, it is possible to superpose inks ideally. Consequentlystable dots can be formed and at the same time inks are used more usefully and saved Furthermore, byunifying reasonably net points dots of a same color, printing becomes stronger against shear, and as theresult this invention has an effect that the image quality is ameliorated in the reproduction of full color images.