# Process for producing diol and furan and microorganism capable of same.

## Abstract
The invention provides a microbiological method for pre paring do and furan compounds from a variety of substrates using the microorganism Hyphozyma roseoniger, CBS 214.83 and ATCC 20624.

## Claims
WHAT IS CLAIMED IS 1. A biologically pure culture of the microorganismHyphozyma roseonicer, having the identifying characteristics of CBS 214.83 and ATCC 20624. 2. A biologically pure culture of the microorganismHyphozyma roseoniger or of a mutant or derivative thereof. 3. The culture of Claim 1 in freeze dried form. 4. A mixture prepared by cultivating the microorganismHyphozyma reseoniger, having the identifying characteristics of CBS 214.83 and ATCC 2064, under aerobic conditions in an aqueous nutrient medium. 5. A mixture prepared by cultivating the microorganismHyphozyma roseoniger or a mutant or derivative thereof. 6. A process for preparing a mixture which comprises cultivating a microorganism having the indentifying characteristics of CBS 21t.83 and ATCC 20624, in an aqueous nutrient medium. 7. A process for preparing a mixture which comprises cultivating the microorganism Hyphozyma roseoniger or mutant or derivative thereof, said culture being capable of producing a diol having the structure 3 EMI27.1 in a recoverable auantity upon transformation of compounds from the group consisting ofEMI28.1 8. A process for preparing a diol having the structure 3 EMI28.2 which comprises cultivating the microorganism Hyphozyma roseoniger, having the identifying characteristics ofCBS 214.83 and ATCC 20624, under aerobic conditions in an aqueous nutrient medium containing one or more compounds from the group consisting of EMI29.1 wherein R isEMI29.2 9. A process fQr, preparing a furan compound having the structure 1 EMI29.3 which comprises cultivating the microorganism Hyphozyma roseoniger, having the identifying characteristics ofCBS 214.83 and ATCC 20624, under aerobic conditions in an aqueous nutrient. medium containing one or more compounds from the group consisting of EMI30.1 wherein R isEMI30.2 to form a diol having the structure 3 EMI30.3 cyclizing the diol in the aqueous nutrient medium to form said furan compound and recovering said furan compound. 10. A process for preparing a furan compound having the structure 1 EMI31.1 which comprises cultivating the microorganism Hyphozyma roseoniger, having the identifying characteristics ofCBS 214.83 and ATCC 20624, under aerobic conditions in an aqueous nutrient medium containing one or more compounds form the group consisting ofEMI31.2 wherein R isEMI31.3 to form a diol having the structure 3 EMI32.1 separating said diol cyclizing said diol to form said furan compound and recovering said furan compound.

## Description
PROCESS FOR PRODUCING DIOL AND FURAN AND MICROORGANISM CAPABLE OF SAMEDodecahydro 3a,6,6,9a tetramethylnaphtho 2.1 b furan 1 is an important fragrance chemical see U.S.Patent 3,029,255 . It has been used in high quality perfume compositions and in functional products, such as fragrances for toiletries and household products1 where a persistent amber effect is desired. Compound 1 is also a component of tincture of ambergris seeB.D. Mookherjee and R.R. Patel, Proceedings of the 7thInternational Congress of Essential Oils, Kyoto, Japan1 1977 , paper number 136 , and synthetic 1 has been used in artificial ambergris formulations. Compound 1 may be manufactured from 2 ethenyldecahydro 2 hydroxy a 2,5,5,8a pentamethyl 1 naphthalenepropanol 4 , commonly referred to as Sclareol, obtained from ClarySage Salvia Sclarea .U.S. Patent 3,050,532 discloses a method of convertingCompound 4 into dodecahydro 3a,6,6,9a tetramethyl naphth 2,1 b furan 2 lH one 2 using a two stage oxidation sequence. In the first step an aqueous dispersion of Sclareol is intimately contacted with an alkali metal permanganate oxidizing agent, under alkaline conditions, to partially oxidize the Sclareol.During the second step the resulting aqueous reaction mixture from the first step is acidified and intimately contacted with a permanaganate or chromic acid oxidizing agent under acid conditions, thereby completing the oxidation. Compound 2 mav be readily converted to Compound 1 by known methods. For example, reducing Compound 2 with hydride reagents see for example, Eelv. Chim. Acta 1950, 33, 1308 provides decahydro 2 hydroxy 2,5,5,8a tetramethylnaphthaleneethanol 3 which is readily converted by cyclization to Compound 1.U.S. Patent 3,029,255 discloses a method for makingCompound 1 by dehydrating Compound 3 with Al2O3 at 200 225 C, followed by heating in vacuo in the presence of naphthalene sulfonic acid 130 C up to 160 C to effect cyclization to Compound 1.Alternatively, Compound 1 may be obtained by cyclization of Compound 3 using toluene g sulfonyl chloride in pyridine, as disclosed by Cambie et al se Aust. J.Chem., 1971, 24, 591 .There is no teaching or suggestion in the prior art of converting labdane compounds via microbiological methods into decahydro 2 hydroxy alpha ,2,5,5,8a tetramethylnaphtha leneethanol 3 or dodecahydro 3a,6,6,9a tetramethyl naphtho 2,1 blfuran 1 , according to the novel and commercially efficient process provided by this invention.The present invention concerns a biologically pure culture of the microorganism Hyphozyma roseoniger, having the identifying characteristics of CBS 214.83 and ATCC 20624. The present invention further concerns a biologically pure culture of the microorganism Hyphozyma roseoniger or of a mutant or derivative thereof. In another embodiment, the present Invention concerns a culture containing the microorganism Hyphozyma roseonier, having the identifying characteristics of CBS 214.83 and ATCC 20624, said culture being capable of producing a diol having the structureEMI3.1 in a recoverable quantity upon the transformation of compounds from the group consisting ofEMI3.2 wherein R isEMI3.3 under aerobic conditions in an aqueous nutrient medium. In still another embodiment, the present invention, concerns a mixture prepared by cultivating the microorganism Nyphozvma roseoniger, having the identifying character istics of CBS 214.83 and ATCC 20624, under aerobic conditions in an aqueous nutrient medium.The cultivation of the microorganism may be performed at a pH of between about 2.5 and about 9.0 and at a temperature of about 120C and about 300C.In a further embodiment, the present invention concerns a process for preparing a diol having the structureEMI4.1 which comprises cultivating the microorganism Hyphozyma roseoniger, having the identifying characteristics ofCBS 214.83 and ATCC 20624, under aerobic conditions in an aqueous nutrient medium containing one or more compounds from the group consisting ofEMI4.2 The cultivation of the microorganism may be performed at a pH of between about 2.5 and about 9.0 and at a temperature of about 120C and about 300C. In a still further embodiment, the present invention concerns a process for preparing 2 furan compound having the structureEMI5.1 which comprises cultivating the microorganism Hyphozyma roseoniger, having the identifying characteristics ofCBS 214.83 and ATCC 20624, under aerobic conditions in an aqueous nutrient medium containing one or more compounds from the group consisting ofEMI5.2 wherein R isEMI5.3 to form a diol having the structureEMI5.4 The diol obtained may be cyclized in the aqueous nutrient medium to form said furan coMpound which is then recovered. In another embodiment the diol may be separated from the aqueous nutrient medium and then cyclized to form said furan compound which is then recovered. The structures of some of the compounds of interest in the present invention are givenEMI6.1 Compounds 4 through 14 may be used as substrates in the transformation process for the present invention to produce the desired products. Compounds 6, 11, and 13 have been observed as intermediates during the transformation of Sclareol according to the process of this invention. The transformation process involves cultivation of the microorganism Ayphozyma roseoniger,CBS 21.83 and ATCC 20624 in an aqueous nutrient medium in the presence of the compounds d through 14. These compounds may be used singularly or as a mixture containing any number of said compounds.The form in which the microorganisms are used is not critical. They can be used as the culture suspension , i.e. including the cells and the corresponding nutrient solution, or in the form of cells suspended in a buffer solution. The cells, or an enzyme extract thereof, may be immobilized on a suitable solid support, which may then be used to effect transformations. The suspended culture mixture is prepared by inoculation of a suitable aqueous nutrient medium with the micro organism. A suitable nutrient medium is one which contains nitrogen sources, inorganic salts, growth factors, the desired substrate s , and optionally other carbon sources. Some carbon sources suitable for use in the inventive process include, for example, glucose, galactose, L sorbose, maltose, sucrose, cellobiose, trehalose,L arabinose, L rhamnose, ethanol, glycerol, L erythrithol, D mannitol, lactose, melibiose, raffinose, melezitose, starch, Dxvbose, D sorbitol, a methyl Dglucoside, lactic acid, citric acid and succinic acid.Suitable nitrogen sources include, for example, nitrogen containing organic substances such as peptone, meat extract, yeast extract, corn steep liquor, casein, urea, amino acids, or nitrogen containing inorganic compounds such as nitrates, nitrites and inorganic ammonium salts Suitable inorganic salts include, for example, phosphates of magnesium, potassium, calcium, or sodium. The above mentioned culture medium nutrients may be supplemented with, for example, one or more vitamins of the B group and or one or more trace minerals such as Fe, Mo, Cu, Mn, and B, as desired.The Vitamins or trace minerals are not necesary when a small amount of yeast extract is added to the medium.Addition of an antibiotic, such as chloroamphinical or chlorotetracycline, may be desirable when bacterial con tamination is a problem.The cultivation of the microorganism may be carried out as a stationary culture or as a submersed e.g., shaking culture, fermentorduIture under aerobic conditions. One may suitably work in the pH range of from between about 2.5 and about 9.0, and preferably in the range of from between about 3.0 and about 7.5 and most preferably between about 3.0 and about 6.5The pH may be regulated by the addition of inorganic or organic acids, such as hydrochloric acid, acetic acid, and oxalic acid, or by the addition of bases, such as sodium hydroxide, and ammonium hydroxide, or by the addition of a buffer, such as phosphate or phthalate.The incubation temperature should suitably be maintained between about 12 C and about 330C, with a range between about 150C and about 300C being more preferred, and a range between about 180C and about 28 C being most preferred. The process in accordance with this invention may be conveniently carried out by adding one or more of the compounds 4 through 1 to the nutrient medium at the onset of cultivation, as the sole carbon source.Alternatively, the substrate. may be added in combination with another carbon source, such as dextrose, either during cultivation, or when the carbon source is depleted. The only restriction on the concentration of substrate in the culture medium is that of being able to effectively aerate the culture. However, the substrate concentration is preferably in the range of between about 0.1 g L and about 100g L, more preferably in the range of between about 0.5 glt and about 50 g L, and most preferably in the range between about 1.5 g L about 30 g L. The transformation can be suitably carried under any of the above mentioned con ditiqns. The total transformation time after initial cultivation period may vary depending on the composition of the nutrient medium and the substrate concentration.In general, shaking flaskcuItures require from between about 12 hours and about 264 hours. However, when a fermentor is usea the cultivation time may be reduced to about 48 hours or less.The transformation may be carried out using the cells of the microorganism isolated from the culture solution, or with an enzyme extract isolated from the cells in a manner well known to the art. In this case, the transformation can be conveniently carried out in a variety of aqueous nutrient mediums including, for example, in a buffer solution, in a physiological salt solution, in a fresh nutrient solution, or in water.The isolated cellos or enzyme extract may be immobilized on a solid support and the desired transformation effected. Also, transformation of the substrate may be effected by mutants of this organism. Such mutants can be readily obtained by methods well known in the art, for example, by exposing the cells to UV or X rays, or known mutagenic substances, such as for example, acridine orange.The substrate can be added to the medium as a powaer, or a slurry in an emulsifier such as Tween 80 polyoxyethylenesorbitan monostearate , or as a solution in an emulsifier, or as a solution in a hydrophilic solvent such as acetone, methanol, ethanol, ethylene glycol, or dioxan. A surface active agent, or a dispersion agent can also be added to an aqueous suspension of the substrate, or the substrate can be emulsified using ultrasound.Conventional antifoan agents, such as silicone oils e.g., UCQN , polyalkyleneglycol derivatives, maize oil, or soya oil, can be used to control foamingThe transformation of the substrate can be monitored using standard analytical techniques sudh as GLC, TLC, HPLC, IR and NMR. If a rapid disappearance of the substrate is observed more substrate can then be added, in order to maximize the transformation capacity of the microorganism. The process is generally terminated when most of the subsLjnts has disappeared from the culture medium.Compound 3 may be recovered from the aqueous nutrient medium,or may be cyclized to the furan Compound 2,either in the aaueous nutrient medium,or after recovery. isolation and purification of Compounds 1 or 3 from the fermentation broth may be achieved by convention al techniques including , filtration or centrifugation, solvent extraction, distillation, crystallization, and the like. Compound 3 may be converted to the furan Compound 1 by conventional cyclization methods well known in the are. For example, reaction of diol 3 with bblZene E sulfonylchloride in pyridine at 00C according to the procedure described by Cambie et al. see Aust. J. Chem., 1971, 24, 591 , which is incorporated herein by reference. This procedure may optionally be employed either on the transformation mixture or on the recovered diol Compound 3. Examples of other cyclization methods are described by R.B. Wagner and H.D. Zook in SyntheticOrganic Chemistry , John Wiley, 1965, pp 838 839, which is incorporated herein by reference.The microorganism employed in this invention was isolated from a soil sample.obtained from central New Jersey,United States of America. This strain has been deposited with the Centraalbureau voor Schimmelculture and theAmerican Type Culture Collection with the accession number CBS 214.83 and ATCC 20624, respectively. The organism was studied and characterized by Centralbureau voor Schimmel Cultures CBS . Dte to the pink coloring of its colonies and its unique morphological and physioFchemical properttes, CBS has assigned the inventive microorganism t he name Eyphozymz roseoniger.This organism has distinct yeast and filamentous forms.Both forms exhibit similar biological properties and perform the transformations described herein.The properties of the yeast phase of the said microorganism are described below 1. Shape and SizeGrowth on YM Agar Pink, glistening, smooth colonies present filamentous growth cells are budding, round or cylindrical ca. 2 x 7 m or sometimes larger.Growth on Malt Extract Agar Pink, occasionally brownish with formation of true hyphae after 2 to 3 weeks, with no clump connections, shiny.Growth on Corn Meal Agar. Light orange pink glistening.Smooth colonies fringed with mycelia.Growth on Potato Dextrose Agar and Difco Malt Agar Pink, smooth, glistening and occasionally turns black at room temperature after 2 to 3 weeks.Growth on YPCA Agar Attaining 8 mm diameter in 10 days, flat, slimy, pale arange 6A3 Kornerups Wanscher, 1978 , with sharp, somewhat lobed margins.Growth on ChA Agar 4 mm diameter in 10 days. After 3 weeks centrally becoming olivaceous, with light brown 6D6 to dark brown 5F7 , finally a submerged mycelium extending from the mucuous colony, leading to a dense, olive brown 4F4 colony locally with thin dirty,white central patches, later dense fascicles of aerial mycelium. The organism produces true hyphae with anastomoses observed on potato and rice slides. It seems to be a hyphomycets fungus with a distinct yeast phase in its life cycle.2. Fermentation on Sugars see Table 1 TABLE 1 FermentationCompound Gas AcidGlucoseGalactose MaltoseSucroseLactoseRaffinose Melibiose Inulin 3. Assimilation of Carbon Compounds see Table 2 TABLE 2 Assimilation of Carbon CompoundsGlucose Lactose vGalactose Melibiose L sorbose Raffindse Maltose Melezitose Sucrose Inulin Cellobiose Soluble starch Trehalose D xyloseL arabinose D sorbitol D arabinose alpha Methyl D glucoside D ribose SalicinL rhamnose Tnositol D glucosamine Lactic acid Ethanol Citric acid Glycerol Succinic acid L rythrithol T Glucono y lactone AdonitolDucitolD mannitol 4.Splitting Arbutin positive 5. Assimilaton of NH4NO3 positive 6 Assimilation of KNO3 positive 7. Assimilation of KNO2 positive 8. Growth on Ethylamine positive 9. Growth on Vitamin free Medium positive 10. Growth at 12 C positive 11. Growth at 260C positive 12. Growth at 300C positive 13. Growth at 370C negative 14. Growth at 45 C negativeThe properties of the filamentous form of the said organism are similar to the yeast phase with the following exceptions Growth on YM Agar Pink, rough colonies, presents filamentous growth with true hyphae.Growth on Malt par or Potato Dextrose Agar Pink, rough colonies, presents filamentous growth after 2 weeks at room temperature,colonies turn black.Growth on Potato and Rice Siides Produces true hyphae with anastomoses.Growth in Liquid Medium such as YM Broth Pink, presents yeast like growth and occasionally some mycellium.Growth on Potato Sucrose Agar Filamentous with evidence of a yeast phase.The following examples serve to illustrate embodiments of the invention as it is now preferred to practice it but in no way are meant to limit the scope thereof.Unless otherwise stated, weights are in grams, temperatures are in degrees centigrade and pressure in mm Hg. EXAMPLE 1This example demonstrates the fermentation process using 2 ethenyldecahydro 2 hydroxy alpha ,2,5,5,8a penta methyl l naphthalenepropanol 4 as substrate.Four flasks, each containing an aqueous solution 100 mL of 0.1 NH4NO31 0.1 H2KPO4, 0.05 MgSO4.7H2O trace minerals,and Vitamin B complex were sterilized at 1200C for 20 minutes, A 50 aqueous solution of dextrose 5 mL and Tween 80 0.1 mL , containing Sclareol 4 10 me was added to each flask. Each flask was inoculated with 5 by volume of three days grown cells CBS 214.83 ATCC 20624 .The cultures were then incubated at 25 10C on a rotary shaker 200 rpm for 3 to 4 days. After the initial incubation period a mixture of Sclareol dissolved in Tween 80 8.0 g was added in portions during the next 5 days, afterwhich the incubation was continued for a further 4 days.At the end of the incubation period the contents of the four flasks were combined, extracted with ethyl acetate 3 x 200 mL and dried Na2SO4 . Evaporation of the solvent provided a crude extract 4.0 g , which was crystallized from hexane chloroform to provide decahydro 2 hydroxy 2,5,5, 8a tetramethylnaphthaleneethanol 3 2.4 g , mp 130.5131.50C, lit. 132 133 C GLC purity 100 , H NMR CDCl3 0.79 6H, 2s , 0.87 3H, 2 , 3H, 2 , 0.9 20 16H, m , 3.41 3.49 1H, m , 3.72 3.79 lH, m . IR CHCl3 max 3580, 3360, 2950, 1460, 1380 cm. MS m e 236, 221, 117, 137, 109. alpha 22D 16.8 CHCl3 . Literature 132 133 C, alpha D22.5 17.3 CHCl3 . see M. Stoll and M. Hinder Helv.Chim. Acta 1953 36 1955 2008. EXAMPLE 2This example demonstrates the efficacy of the fermentation process using different levels of Sclareol d as substrate.A procedure similar to that described in Example 1 was used except that yeast extract O.1 g was substituted for the trace minerals and vitamins, and that theSclareol 4 was recrystallized from hexanes, pulvarized, passed through a 50 mesh seive, and then mixed with an equal weight of Tween 80. After an initial incubation period of 4 days, the mixture of Sclareol 4 and Tween 80 was added to each flask incrementally over a period of 5 days and then incubated for an additional 4 days. Table 3 below shows the amount ofSclareol 4 added to each flask and the yield of iso lated diol 3. Each product exhibited spectral data identical with that reported in Example 1.Table 3Total Weight of Sclareol 4 Isolated Yield of Diol 3 Flask 1 2 81 2 3 74 3 5 71 EXAMPLE 3This example demonstrates the efficacy of the. fermentation process using resting cells washed A procedure similar to that described in Example 1 was employed, except that after an initial incubation period of 3 days, the cells from 100 mL of culture broth were harvested and washed 3 x 25 mL with 0.3 x 10 M phosphate buffer pH 7.2 and separated by centrifugation. The washed cells were dispersed in the above mentioned buffer 100 mL and incubated at 25 10C on a rotary shaker rpm 200 for 7 days. Sclareol 0.5 g dissolved in Tween 80 5 g was added incrementally to the suspension of cells during the first 4 days of incubation.At the end of the incubation period TLC monitoring indicated that all of the Sclareol 4 had been converted to the diol 3. Work up,in the usual manner,provi ded diol 3 in 98 yield, and 998 GLC purity.The spectral data for this product was identical with that reported in Example 1. EXAMPLE 4This example demonstrates the fermentation process using each of Compounds 4 through 14 as substrates, to produce decahydro 2 hydroxy 2, 5,5, 8a tetramethylnaphthalene ethanol 3 .Eleven flasks, each containing an aqueous solution, 100 mL of medium described in Example 2 were sterilized at 120 C for 20 minutes. A 50 aqueous solution of dextrose 4 mL , and Tween 80 0.1 mL containing 10 mg of corresponding substrate, was added to each flask. Each flask was then inoculated with 5 by volume of three days grown cells of CBS 214.83 ATCC 20624 and the cultures were then incubated at 24 laC on a rotary shaker 200 rpm for 3 days.After the inital incubation period, a mixture of substrate dissolved in Tween 80 ratio 1 7 w w was added to each corresponding flask, after which the incubation was continued for several days see Table 4 . The progress of the transformations was monitored by TtC. At the end of the incubation periods, the contents of each flask were extracted with ethyl acetate 3 x 75 mL , the extracts dried Na2SO4 , and the solvent evaporated. The residues were separately puified by column chromatography on silica gel using hexane isopropane 95 5 as solvent and the yields of diol 3 were determined. Data for the eleven experiments are summarized in Table 4. Table 4Production of Compound 3 by CBS 214.83 ATCC 20624 Using Different Substrates Total Incubation Yield ofSubstrate g 100 mL Time days Diol 3 Compound 4 0.3 7 96Compound 5 0.3 11 89Compound 6 0.3 7 91Compound 7 0.2 10 51Compound 8 0.2, 10 13Compound 9 0.2 10 7Compound 10 0.3 7 98 Compound 11 0.3 6 100Compound 12 0.3 11 91Compound 13 0.24 8 98Compound 14 0.5 4 100 EXAMPLE 5This example demonstrates method for preparingCompounds 7, 8 and 9, which may be employed as substrates in the inventive process.A solution of Sclareol 9.24 g, 0.03 mol in methylene chloride 40 mL was added in one portion to a mixture of pyridinium chlorochromate 12.93 g, 0.06 mol , sodium acetate 2.46 g, 0.03 mol ,, and methylene chloride 100 mL . The mixture was stirred for 4 h at 250C. Ether 200 mL was added and the supernatant decanted from the gummy precipitate. The precipitate was washed with ether 3 x 50 mL . The ethereal solution was passed through silica gel 60 40 g and the solvents evaporated. The residue was dissolved in ethanol 2 mL and ether 4 mL , and stirred at 250C with a solution of sodium bisulfite 15 g in water 60 mL for 3 h. The mixture was extracted with ether 2 x 30 mL . The aqueous layer was made basic with 10 sodium hydroxide and extracted with ether t x 50 mL . The ether extracts were dried Na2SO4 and the solvent evaporated to yield 2.72 g of residue.Chromatography on silica gel 60 70 g eluant, hexane ethyl acetate 4 1 gave 0.74 g of trans aldehyde 7, 0.69 g of cis aldehyde 8, and 0.64 g of cyclic aldehydes 9. E 1R 1 alpha ,2ss,4ass, 8a alpha 5 decahydro 2 hydroxy 2,5,5,8a tetramethyl 1 naphthalenyl 3 methyl 2 pentenal 7 mp 83 85 C, alpha D 14.2 c, 5.76, CHCl3 H NMR CDCl3 0.78 6H,s , 0.86 3H, s , 1.17 3H, s , 2.15 3H, broad s , 0.8 2 .5 17H, m , 5.82 1H, d, J 8 Hz , 9.98 lH, d, J 8 Hz IR CHC13 max 3570, 3440, 2940, 2850, 1670, 1630, 1460, 1440, 1390 cm MS, m e 306, 291, 273, 109, 95, 84 UV Xmax 95 ethanol 241 nm calcd 231 nm e, 17,300 . AsI,. Calcd for C20H34O2 C, 78.37 H, 11.18. Found C, 77.92,H, 11.02. Z 1R 1 alpha ,2ss,4ass,8a alpha 5 decahydro 2 hydroxy 2,5,5,8a tetramethyl 1 naphthalenyl 3 methvl 2 pentanal 8 , mp 91 93.5 C alpha D 8.9 c, 3.13, CHCl3 ÚH NMR CDCl3 6 0.78 6H, s , 0.87 3H, s , 1.14 3H, s , 1.98 3H, broad s , 0.9 2.8 17H, m , 5.75 lH, d,J 8 Hz , 10.0 1H, d, J 8 Hz IR CHCl3 3570, 2450, 2940, 2840, 1670, 1630, 1460, 1440, 1390 cm MS m e 306, 273, 109, 95, 84 UV Xmax 95 ethanol 242 nm calcd 231 nm , 13,000 . Anal. Calcd for C20H34O2 C, 78.37 H, 11.18. Found C, 78.34 H, 11.02. 4aR 4a alpha , 6ass, 10a alpha , 10bss dodecahydro 3,4a,7,7,10a penta methyl 1H naphtho 2.1 b pyran 1 acetaldehyde 9 , ÚH NMR CDCl3 a 0.78 6H, s , 0.85 3H, s , 1.25 3H, s , 1.27 3H, s . 0.9 2.6 18H, m , 9.8 10.0 1H, m IR film may 2940, 2850, 1720, 1460, 1440, 1380, 1370 cm 1 MS, m e two peaks of similar ms 291, 273, 262, 245, 109, 43. EXAMPLE 6This example demonstrates a method for preparingCompound 10, which may be employed as a substrate in the invention process.To a suspension of sodium hydride 0.72 g of 50 suspension, 0.015 mol washed free of mineral oil with hexane in dimethoxyethane 15 mL was added a solution of ethyl diisopropylphosphononoacetate 3.78 g, 0.015 mol in dimethoxyethane 30 mL over a 10 min period. After hydrogen evolution has ceased,,, lR 1c ,2S,4aS,8aa 4 2 acetylOxy decahydro 2,5,5,8a tetramethyl l nmphth21 enyl 2 butanone 3.22 g, 0.01 mol, which may be prepared as described by J.A. Barltrop et al., in J. Chem. Soc., 1960, 46i3 was added all at once. The mixture was heated at reflux for 21 h, then cooled and poured onto ice water 100 mt .The mixture was acidified with 6N hydrochIoric acid, and extracted with hexane ethyl acetate 4 1, 4 x 10mL . ,The organic extracts were washed with water 2 x 10 mL , saturated sodium bicarbonate solution 2 x 15 mB , and dried Na2SO4 . The solvents were evaporated and the residue chromatographed silica gel 60 eluant, hexane ethyl acetate, 9 1 to provide 3.02 g of ethyl E,Z 1R 1 alpha ,2ss,4ass,8a alpha 5 2 acetyl oxy decahydro 2,5,5,8a tetramethylr aphthalenyl 3 methyl 2 pentenoate as a colorless viscous oil.A mixture of ethyl E,Z 1R 1 alpha ,2ss,4ass,8a alpha 5 2 acetyloxy decahydro 2,5,5,8a tet amethyl 1 naphtha lenyl 3 methyl 2 pentenoate 2.19 g, 0.00557 mol , isopropanol 65 mL , water 10 mL and potassium hydroxide 1.47 g, 0.0223 mol was heated at reflux for 24 h. The mixture was concentrated to 20 mt, water 50 mL was added, and the mixture was extracted with ether. The aqueous phase was acidified with 6N HC1 and extracted with ether 5 x 20 mL . The ether extracts were washed with brine, dried Na2SO4 , and the solvents evaporated to yield 1.781 g of crude product. Chromatography on silica gel 60 eluant.,. hexane isoproanol, 9 1 gave 0.455 g of the cis isomer, and 1.223 g of the trans isomer 10.Recrystallization from hexane ethyl acetate yielded analytical samples Z 1R 1 alpha ,2ss,4ass,8a alpha 5 decahydro 2 hydroxy 2,5,5,8a tetra methyl 1 naphthalenyl 3 methyl 2 pentenoic acid, mp 147 149 C alpha D 62.96 c, 4.66, CHCl3 ÚH NMR CDCl3 d 0.81 6H, s , 0.88 3H, s , 1.21 3H, s , 1.92 3H, broad s , 0.9 2.4 17H, m , 5.72 lH, broad s , 6.8 7.3 1H, v. broad s IR CHCl3 max 3500, 3400, 2940, 2550, 1690, 1640, 1460, 1440 cm 1 MS, m e 322, 304, 289, 276, 109 UV max 95 EtOH 228 nm calcd 217 nm , 7300 . Anal. Calcd for C20H34O3 C, 74.49 H, 10.63.Found C, 74.20 H, 10.40. E 1R 1 alpha ,2ss,4ass,8a alpha 5 decahydro 2 hydroxy 2,5,5,8a tetra methyl 1 naphthalenyl 3 methyl 2 pentenoic acid, mp 151 153 C alpha D 9.44 c, 4.83, CHCl3 ÚH NMR CDCl3 6 0.79 6H, s , 0.87 3H, s , 1.15 3H, s , 2.17 3H, broad s 0.9 2.4 17H, m . 5.70 1H, broad s , 5.8 6.1 1H, broad s IR CHCl3 max 3560, 3400, 2940, 2550, 1690, 1640, 1460, 1440 cm 1 MS, m e 322, 304, 289, 276, 109 UV Ajax 95 EtOH 230 nm calcd 217 nm , 5700 . Anal. Calcd for C20H34O3 74.49 H, 10.63.Found C, 74.12 H, 10.52. EXAMPLE 7This example demonstrates a method for preparingCompound 11, which may be employed as a substrate in the inventive processs. To a solution of diisopropylamine 8.484 g, 0.084 mol in tetrahydrofuran 90 mL at OCC was added n butyllithium 38.2 mL of a 2.2. M hexane solution, 0.084 mol dropwise, over a 20 minute period. A solution of acetic acid 2.52 g, 0.042 mol in tetrahydrofuran 20 mL was added over a 15 minute period. The mixture was then heated at 500C for 45 minutes. The mixture was cooled to 25 C and lR la,2S,4a6,8aa 4 t2 acetyloxy decahydro 2,5,5,8a tetramethyl 1 naphthalenyl 2 butanone 4.508 g, 0.014 mol, which may be prepared as described by J.A. Barltrop et al., in J. Chem. Soc., 1960, 4613 in tetrahydrofuran 35 mL was added over a 10 minute period. The mixture was stirred at 25eC for 17 h and then heated at reflux for 30 minutes.The mixture was cooled to 250C, afterwhich water 40 mL and potassium hydroxide 5 g were added. The mixture was heated at reflux for 4h, then cooled, added to water 100 mL , and extracted with hexane ethyl acetate 4 1 3 x 30 mL . The aqueous layer was cooled to OOC, acidified with 6N HC1, and extracted with hexane ethyl acetate 4 1, 4 x 50 mL . The combined extracts were washed with brine, dried Na2SO4 , and then the solvent evaporated to yield 2.071 g of crude product. Chromatograph on silica gel 60 eluant, hexane ethyl acetate acetic acid, 10 10 0.1 gave 1.434 g of acids 11.Crystallization frcm hexane ethyl acetate gave an analytical sample, mp 136 137.5 C, H NMR CDC13 6 0.76 6H, s , 0.85 3H, s , 1.16 and 1.19 3H, 2s , 1.28 3H, s , 0.8 1.9 16H, m , 2.4 2.8 2H, m , 6.1 6.6 2H, broad s IR CHC13 vmax 3550, 2930, 2700, 1710, 1455, 1385 cm 1 MS m e 340, 304, 289, 109, 95, 43. Anal. Calcd for C20H3604 C, 70.54 H, 10.66. Found C, 70.99, H, 10.63. EXAMPLE 8This example demonstrates the conversion of a ethenyl decahydro 2 hydroxy alpha ,2,5,5,8a pentamethyl 1 naphthal enepropanol 4 to dodecahydro 3a,6,6,9a tetramethylnaphtho 2.1 b furan 1 using 2 two step process.A procedure similar to that described in Example 2 was used, except that seven flasks were used, and that the amount of Sclarecl 4 edded to each flask and the incubation period was varied see Table 5 . When incubation was complete the flasks were worked up separately and seven samples of crude diol 3 obtained. Each sample was separately reacted with toluene c sulfonylchloride, in pyridine, according to the method of Cambie, et al., see Aust. J. Chem., 1971, 24, 591 and each reaction product Kugelrohr distilled to provide furan 1. ÚH NMR CDCl3 6 0.83 6H, 2s , 0.88 3H, s , 0.9 1.8 13H, m , 1.9 2.0 1H, m , 3.77 3.92, 2H, m . IR melt max 2940, 1460, 1385, 1365 cm 1, MS m e 236, 221, 204, 177, 137, 97. Data for the seven experiments are summarized in Table 5.Table 5 Product 1Wt. of Sclareol 4 Total Incubation Yield GLC PurityFlask mg Time days mg 1 160 7 115 95 2 240 8 169 97 3 320 9 220 97 4 400 10 270 93 5 400 14 258 96 6 560 14 361 97 7 720 14 468 97 Yields do not take into account samples removed during monitoring. EXAMP B 91 This example demors rates the direct cyclization of the transformation product decahydro 2 hydroxy 2,5,5,8a tetramethylnaphthaleneethanol 3 , without separation from the aqueous nutrient medium, to dodecahydro 3a,6, 6,9a tetramethylnaphtho 2,1 b furan 1 .A procedure similar to that described in Example 2 usingSclareol 2.0 g as substrate in 100 mt of fermentation broth was employed. After 14 days total incubation time, the contents of the flask were transferred to a reaction vessel equipped for stirring and heating under reflux. Toluene E sulfonylchloride 2.48 g , sodium hydroxide pellets 25 g and tetrahydrofuran 200 mL were added and the mixture stirred at 20 C. After 5 h,additional toluene p sulfonylchloride 1.50 g was added and the reaction mixture was stirred overnight. Next day the mixture was heated at reflux for 30 min, cooled, and extracted with ethyl acetate 3 x 100 mL . The combined extracts were dried Na2SO4 . The solvents were evaporated, and the residue Kugelrohr distilled to give 1.38 g of a solid, which by instrumental analysis contained 85 of dodecahydro 3a,6,6,9a tetramethylnaphtho 2.1 b furan 1 . EXAMPLE 10This example demonstrates an alternative procedure for the direct cyclization of the transformation product decahydro 2 hydroxy 2,5,5,8a tetramethylnaphthaleneethanol 3 , without separation from the aqueous nutrient medium, to dodecahydro 3a,6,6,9a tetramethylnaphtho 2,1 bfuran 1 . A procedure similar to that described it Sample 2 using Sclareol 2.0 g , as substrate in 100 mL of fermen tation broth was employed. After 14 days total incubation time, the contents of the flask were transferred to a reaction vessel equipped for stirring and heating under reflux. The fermentation broth was acidified with 6 N hydrochloric acid to about pH 1 , ethyl acetate 100 mL added, and the stirred mixture heated at reflux for 6 h.After cooling, the ethyl acetate layer was separated, washed to neutrality, and dried. The solvent was evaporated and the residue Kugelrohr distilled to give 1.4 g of a solid, which by instrumental analysis contained 38 of dodecahydro 3a,6,6,9a tetramethylnaphtho 2.1 b furan 1 . EXAMPLE 11This example illustrates an alternative procedure for the direct cyclization of the transformation product decahydro 2 hydroxy 2,5,5,8a tetramethylnaphthaleneethanol 3 , without separation from the aqueous nutrient medium, to dodecahydro 3a,6,6,9a tetramethyl naphtho 2,1 blfuran 1 . A procedure similar to that described in Example 8 was employed except that the ion exchange resin Dowex 50X2 400 10 g was added to the fermentation broth instead of 6N hydrochloric acid. Work up, and Kugelrohr distillation,gave 1.32 g of a solid, which by instrumental analysis contained 37 of Compound 1.The invention being thus described, it will be obvious that the same may be varied in many ways. Such variations are not to be regarded as a departure from the spirit and scope of the invention, and all such moii cations are intended to be included within the scope of the following claims