# Composite yarn product and method of preparation.

## Abstract
The present invention relates to a composite yarn pro duct, having improved strength and resistance to distortion and fracture in use, in combination with improved texture and appearance. The composite yarn product comprises strands of a composite resin laminate prepared from at least three film layers, with a centrally colored substrate prepared from a resin film, and paired outer films individually formed and adhesively attached to the substrate by heat and pressure. The film layers are bonded together by an adhesive composi tion. The adhesive composition comprises a first component and a second component, the first component including a resin material selected from acrylonitrile butadiene copolym ers, and butadiene styrene copolymers. The first component is prepared in an organic solvent system. The second compo nent contains an epoxy resin such as a bisphenol A derived diepoxide, and a vinylchloride vinylacetate copolymer, pre pared in a like organic solvent system.

## Claims
IN THE CLAIMS 1. A composite yarn product comprising strands of a composite resinous laminate, said laminate having at least 3 film layers thereof, and comprising A. a central substrate comprising a colored thermoplastic material having two opposed surfaces B. an outer thermoplastic film adhered to each of said opposed surfaces C. an adhesive composition adhering said substrate to the adjacent surfaces of said outer films, said adhesive composition applied to the adjacent surfaces of said outer films prior to the placement of said adjacent surfaces against the respective surfaces of said colored substrate, said adhesive composition comprising i. a first component, said first component comprising a resin material selected from copolymers of acrylonitrile and butadiene, and copolymers of butadiene and styrene, in an amount by weight of said adhesive composition of up to about 10 , and at least one organic solvent present in an amount by weight, based on said composition of about 10X and ii. a second component comprising a vinylchloride vinylacetate copolymer, present in an amount by weight of from about 5 to about 10 , an epoxy resin present in an amount of about 5X by weight, and a solvent system for said second component present in an amount up to about 75 by weight of said adhesive composition iii. said first and said second components initially prepared individually, and said second component is dispersed in said first component and D. wherein the completed yarn product possesses an aggregate thickness of no greater than 2 mil. 2. The product of Claim 1 wherein the resin material in said first component comprises an acrylonitrile butadiene copolymer. 3. The product of Claim 2 wherein said acKyloMitrile is present In an amount by weight of said resin material of from about 34 to about 36X, and said butadiene is present in an amount by weight of about 66X to about 64X. 4. The product of Claim 1 wherein the resin material of said first component comprises a butadiene styrene resin. 5. The product of Claim 4 wherein said butadiene styrene resin is rubber like and has a low molecular weight, ranging from about 1,000 to about 10,000. 6. The product of Claim 1 wherein solvent system is said first component comprises a mixture of toluol and acetone. 7. The product of Claim 6 wherein said toluol is present in an amount by weight of said solvent system of about 556 and said acetone constitutes the remainder thereof. 8. The product of Claim 1 wherein the solvent system in said second component comprises a mixture of toluol and acetone. 9. The product of Claim 8 wherein said toluol and said acetone are present in approximately equal amounts with respect to each other. 10. The product of Claim 1 wherein said vinylchloride vinylacetate copolymer contains at least 85X to about 93X by weight thereof, of vinylchloride, the remainder essentially vinylacetate. 11. The product of Claim 10 wherein said vinylchloride vinylacetate copolymer comprises 85 to 88X by weight vinylchloride. 10.8X to 14.2X vinylacetate, and from 0.8X to 1.2X maleic acid.

## Description
COMPOSITE YARN PRODUCT AND METHOD OF PREPARATIONThe present invention relates generally to composite yarn products, and particularly to such products having an improved adhesive composition useful in their preparation.Generally, composite yarn products are known, and may be prepared by a variety of techniques, yielding products ranging from ribbon strips to light conductive fibers.Thus, U.S. Patent No . 2,166,819 to Miller prepares a two ply ribbon strip by adhesively bonding two layers of plastic to each other and thereafter longitudinally slitting the composite product. U.S. Patent No. 3,361,616 to Scharf discloses the preparation of a composite yarn by the disposition of actual strands of thread or strands of metalized material between two resinous sheets. Finally,U.S, Patent No. 3,666,S87 to Nagao shows the preparation of a light conducting fiber by the preparation of a sandwich of a polystyrene material between acrylic sheet materials.Notwithstanding the above, certain materials have been developed and are presently in wide use as yarn products, which are particularly a ttractive and provide a multi colored textured hue that is desirable for Incorporation in clothing fabric, drapery materials and trim accessories. In particular, such materials may comprise a thermoplastic film which is given multiple iridescent coatings, to capture different reflective colorations depending upon its angle of exposure to light.This material may be prepared from natural or synthetic resins and may have as many as 120 layers of colors applied with rollers, and may be prepared to a thickness of .8 mil.Certain difficulties have developed in the use of this material, as it offers a soft hand, but tends to fracture and break during manufacture and subsequent use. Attempts to strengthen this material by offering a thltker base1 and by preparing composite yarn products where the fim is disposed upon one or more base sheet layers, have all failed, as either the additional thickness renders the resulting yarn aesthetically undesirable and awkward to process and weave, or the incremental increases in thickness are insufficient to remedy the weakness of the yarn product.A need therefore exists for the preparation of a composite yarn product that maintains an acceptable flexibility and texture, yet achieves an improved strength to withstand processing and use. SUMMARY OF THE INVENTIONIn accordance with the present invention, a composite yarn product is prepared which utilizes a multi coated resinous central film layer disposed between two polyester resin sheets of equal thickness. The central layer may be prepared from a variety of natural and synthetic resins, such as cellulose ethers and esters, polyesters, polyolefins, vinyl polymers and other materials capable of being spun or woven into fibers and advantageously pigmented or otherwise attractively coated. Preferably, the central substrate comprises a cellulose ester such as cellulose acetate, or a polyester composition such as polyethylene terephthalate. The polyester sheets may comprise polyethylene terephthalate and are bonded to the resinous central layer by an adhesive composition having a particular formulation.The adhesive of the present invention comprises a mixture of a first component and a second component. The first component contains a resin selected from acrylonitrile butadiene resins, butadiene styrene resins, and mixtures thereof, and may be prepared by dflss38v1ng ir. an organic solvent system.The second component of the present adhesive composition, comprises a vinylchloride vinylacetate copolymer in mixture with an epoxy resin both of which are disposed in a single solution in a like organic solvent system.The preparation of the adhesive comprises the mixture of the second component and the addition thereto of the mixture of the first component under agitation.More particularly, the first component of the present adhesive composition may comprise an acrylonitrile butadiene copolymer present in an amount by weight of the total composition of up to about 10 . The vinylchloride vinylacetate copolymer may likwise be present in an amount of up to about 10 by weight and the epoxy resin may be present in an amount by weight of up to about 5X, the remainder of the adhesive composition comprising a mixture of the respective solvents.The adhesive composition of the present invention facilitates the preparation of the composite laminate and, by its ability to provide unexpected adhesion and additional strength, permits the preparation of a composite yarn product of relatively minimal thickness, that nonetheless exhibits the desired properties of strength in its resistance to delamination and fracture under tension.Accordingly, it is a principal object of the present invention to provide an improved yarn product offering a combination of texture and strength.It is a further object of the present invention to provide a yarn product as aforesaid which may be prepared simply and inexpensively. It is a further object of the present invention to provide an adhesive composition for use in the preparation of the yarn Droduct as aforesaid, which contributes to the improved properties thereof.Other objects and advantages will become apparent to those skilled in the art from a review of the ensuing description. DETAILED DESCRIPTIONIn accordance with the Dresent invention. a composite yarn oroduct is prepared which comDrises a resinous film havinq a multiple iridescent coating disposed thereon. which is bonded in sandwich relationship between two thermoplastic resinous materials. Both the resinous central film or laver and the thermonlastic resinous materials forming the outer surfaces of the composite Droduct. may be selected from natural and synthetic resins. Natural resins comprise cellulose ethers and esters. such as cellulose acetate. cellulose acetate butyrate. Synthetic resins mav be selected from oolyesters. such as polyethylene terephthalate. polyolefins such as polypropylene and polystyrene. vinyl polymers such as polvvinyl chloride. and others. Perferably. cellulose ester and Polyester films and. in Darticular. such films havinq thicknesses ranging from about .25 to about 1.0 mil may be used to form a comoosite varn Droduct having an aooreoate thickness of less than 2.0 mil.One of the primary features of the present invention.comprises the adhesive comDosition utilized to bond the outer films to the coated base film. The adhesive comDosition is prepared as two components. the first component comprising a resin selected from butadiene acrvlonitrile resins and butadiene styrene resins. A Darticular acrylonitrile butadiene is preferred. and comprises a copolymer marketed by B.F. Goodrich Chemical Co. under the desiquation Hvcar 1472.The molecular weight of this Product ranqes UD to about 100.000. The Dercent of acrvlonitrile bv weight is about 34 36 and that of butadiene Is about 66 64 .In the instance where the first component utilizes a butadiene styrene resin. it mav comDrise a rubber like copolymer havino low molecular weight. In particular. the butadiene styrene cooolvmer mav have molecular weiqhts ranainq from about 1.000 to about 10.000 and mav contain an averaoe of from about 2 to about 5 OH qroutis Der molecule.The first component. containina either of the above resins is then prepared in an aDDroDriate solvent system. The solvents mav be those organic materials such as acetone.toluol. methvlethvl ketone and methylisobutyl ketone. In particular. the first component mav be prepared in a solvent solution with a mixture of toluol and acetone.The solvent mav comDrise aDDroximatelv 45 of the total of the first component. with the toluol Dresent in an amount ranaina from about 50 to 60 bv weiaht of the total solvent Dresent. and acetone comDrisinq the rest. Preferablv. the solvent component is comorised of 55 toluol and 45 acetone.The second component of the Dresent adhesive comDosition comprises a vinvlchloride vinvlacetate copolymer and an epoxy resin. The vinylchloride vinylacetate copolymer mav be Present in an amount ranging uti to about 10X bv weight of the total adhesive composition. and the epoxy resin mav be present in an amount of uti to about 5X bv weight.The vinylchloride vinylacetate copolymer contains at least 85X vinylchloride. and preferably about 85 to 93 vinylchloride. A Darticularlv useful copolymer is manufactured bv Union Carbide CorDoration and is identified as VMCH. with from 85 to 88 vinylchloride.from 10.8X to 14.2 vinyl acetate and from 0.8X to 1.2X maleic acid. The vinylchloride vinylacetate copolymer Provides improved strenath to the adhesive bond formed with the Dresent comDosition. The vinylchloride vinylacetate copolymer is Preferably Dresent within the second component. in an amount by weight thereof ranging from about 7 to about 14 . and preferably about 10 . Epoxy resins suitable for use in the second component comprise those compounds having two epoxy oroups in their molecules such as the diolycidyl ethers derived from bisDhenols or haloaenated bistihenols cycloalitihatic polyepoxy compounds qlycidyl ethers of novolak resins and the like. Preferably. the epoxy resins comprise diepoxy comoounds derived from bisnhenol A. and have epoxy eQuivalents ranging from about 150 to 200.A Darticularlt suitable epoxy compound comDrises EPON 828 manufactured by Shell Chemical Corp.. havina an epoxy equivalent ranging from 185 192 and a viscositv of from 110 150 poise at 25 C.The epoxy comDound Provides improved adhesion in coaction with the acrylonitrile butadiene copolymer and the vinylchloride vinylacetate copolymer. and when applied to the polyester sheets quickly cures under laminating temDeratures and Dressures to form the final multi layered Droduct.The second component is prepared independently and contains a larqer quantity of solvents. In particular.both toluol and acetone are likewise useful. and mav bePresent in amounts. in combination. of up to about 90X bv weight of the second component. Each of the solvents mav be Dresent in aDDroximatelv equal amounts with a sliaht excess of toluol Dermissible. The Dresent adhesive may be prepared by mixinq the inoredients of the first component initially. Thus. the solvents are mixed and stirred. aid the acrylonitrile butadiene copolymer is thereafter slowiy added under aqitation until it is fully dissolved.The second component is prepared bv combinina the respective solvents under agitation. after which the epoxy resin is added with continued aqitation after addition is comDlete. Preferably. aqitation mav continue for a Deriod of uti to 1 2 hour after all of the eDoxv resin has been added to the mixture. Thereafter. the vinylchloride vinylacetate coDolvmer is slowlv added with continued aaitation until all of the vinyl copolymer has been added and has dissolved.Upon the completion of the individual DreDarations of the first and second comDonents. the first component is then slowlv added to the second component under similar agitation until such addition is complete. Agitation mav continue bevond the completion of addition and. for example. the resultinq mixture mav be aaitated as bv stirring. for a Deriod of about 1 hour.Thereafter. the resultinq adhesive comtiosition mav be diluted bv the addition of diluents such as the solvents methvlethvl ketone and methylisobutyl ketone. until the mixture Dossesses a viscositv of aDDroximatelv 25 seconds No. 2 Zahn Cup . At this point. the adhesive is ready for use in the preparation of the multi layered composite varn. While specific materials have been disclosed above for use in the first and second components of the Dresent adhesive comDosition. it is to be understood that these materials mav vary within the scope of the invention. to encompass those chemically equivalent materials that would serve the same respective functions within the comDosition. The invention is therefore intended to embrace these equivalent materials within its spirit and scope. the foreqoing descritition comprising an Illustration of a best mode of the practice of the invention.The composite yarn product of the Dresent invention mav be prenared in the followina manner. The colored base or substrate mav be laminated to a film such as the films recited earlier. by the application of a thin coating of adhesive to the latter. followed by feedina the film and the coated substrate through Pressure rollers. at an elevated temDerature. After initial contact between the first outer film and the substrate. the resulting composite is Dassed through an oven to drive off the solvents in the adhesive formulation. Thereafter. the substrate may Dass through a Dair of heatinq rollers. to complete the lamination cycle. Preferably. the temDerature of the rollers is in excess of 2200F. and the rolling pressures are on the order of 4.000 PSI.The foreaoina procedure is reseated to bond the second outer film to the oDDosite broad surface of the substrate.so that the resultinq three lavered composite film emeraing from the heated rollers is ready for final processing.The foreooina Procedure is useful in accordance with a first embodiment of the invention and mav be modified as follows. The adhesive mav be applied directlv to the coated substrate or base film by spraving. calendering. or the like. and thereafter the outer films may be applied in liquid form thereto After drying. the coated composite mav be Dassed throuqh heated rollers to assure uniformitv of thickness and adhesion. and the resulting product mav then be ready for final Drocessinq. Final processing of the composite product comprises the slitting of a master roll thereof to band widths in a manner well known in the art. followed bv further slitting of individual bands to varn sizes ranging from 1 100th of an inch. to other sizes either smaller or larger.depending upon desired and use. The specific procedure of sheet and band slitting Is well known in the art and does not. per Se. form a Dart of the oresent invention.As noted earlier. the Primary features of the Dresent invention. are the ability of the final Droduct to maintain an accePtable texture or hand while providing sufficient resilience and strength to successfully withstand the strain imPosed by varn Drocessinq. The capabllity of the varn products is in large measure a function of the properties imparted bv the adhesive composition. that facilitates the preparation of this multi lavered Droduct.The present invention will be better understood from a consideration of the followino illustrative examples. in which all proportions exDressed bv weiqht are intended to be percent by weight. EXAMPLE 1An adhesive comoosition was prepared having a first component and a second component. the first component comDrisina the following inqredients AMOUNT INGREDIENTS KILOGRAMS Acrylonitrile butadiene copolymer HYCAR 1472 14Toluol 5.8Acetone 4.8Toluol and acetone were mixed and thereafter the resin was added with stirrinq. The stirrinq was continued until the resin was dulv added and completely dissolved. The second component of the adhesive con,posttion was prepared with following ingredients AMOUNT INGREDIENTS KILOGRAMS Epoxy resin EPIKOTE 1001 manu factured by Shell Chemical Company having an epoxy equivalent of 189 5.6 Vinylchloride vinylacetate maleic acid copolymer VMCH manufactured by Union Carbide Corporation 13.8Toluol 68Acetone 60The solvents toluol and acetone were combined and mixed with stirring. The epoxy resin was thereafter added and the resulting mixture stirred for 1 2 hour. The vinyl copolymer was then added with continued stirring until completely in solution.After each component was prepared, the first component was added to the second component under stirring and thereafter stirring was continued for approximately 1 hour.All stirring conducted in this Example was performed with a power mixer.After combination of the first and the second component was complete, the resulting mixture was diluted by the addition of methylethyl ketone and methylisobutyl ketone to a viscosity of approximately 24 seconds, measured with a No. 2 Zahn Cup. The resulting formulation was thereafter complete and ready for use. EXAMPLE IIThe adhesive composition prepared in Example I was utilized to prepare a composite yarn product as follows.A cellulose ester film of approximately .8 mil having a multiplicity of iridescent coatings thereon, known conventionally as Iris Film, was bonded to a .25 mil clear polyester film comprising polyethylene terephthalate. The adhesive of Example I was applied to the clear polyester film and that film was then joined with the central iridescent film between pressure rollers. Thereafter, the resulting laminate was passed through an oven having a temperature of 1750F, to volatize off the solvents contaSned in the adhesive. Thereafter, the laminate was passed through two pairs of heating rollers, maintained at a temperature of 2250F and applying a pressure of 400 PSI.The above procedure was repeated with the application of a second clear polyester film to the unbonded side of the central iridescent film to prepare the final composite laminate. The laminate was thereafter slit to band widths which were, in turn, slit to yarn sizes of 1 100th of an inch. The yarn products produced thereby exhibited a softness of texture and faithful retention of color, together with improved strength and resistance to fracture and distortion in use. EXAMPLE IIIA further composite yarn product was prepared in the same manner as described in Example II, above, with the difference that the central irridescent film was prepared from a polyester film having a thickness of about .85 mil.The remainder of the processing was completed and the resulting yarn offered the same improved texture, strength and integrity that was found with the yarns prepared by the previous Example. While the foregoing Invention has described the preparation of a composite yarn utilizing as a base or substrate a multicoated iridescent film, it is to be understood that the base or substrate may comprise a film coated with a vaporized metal, such as aluminum, chromium, and the like. Such vaporized coatings may be applied by techniques well known in the art.Likewise, while a three layered laminate has been described, additional layers may be applied by the similar technique, utilizing the adhesive of the present invention.The present adhesives provide an advantage in addition to strength and flexibility, in that they resist discoloration and therefore faithfully preserve the initial appearance of the underlying base or substrate.