# Liquid crystal display control device

## Claims
Steuergerät für eine Flüssigkristallanzeigeeinheit mit

## Description
The present invention relates to a control device for a liquid crystal display LCD device, in particular, to an LCD device which is capable of preventing erroneous display that tends to be generated at the time of disconnecting the power supply. A tendency exists in recent semiconductor devices to attempt to reduce the power consumption by stopping the feeding of power to the circuits that are not in operation. For instance, among LCD devices for displaying desired content on the display unit, which receives the voltage necessary for driving the LCD from a boosting circuit that uses a capacitor and supplies the voltage to the LCD to be driven through operation of a plurality of switches, there are some that disconnects the power supply when there is no need to have a continued display of the content, in order to reduce the power consumption. However, in such an LCD device, discharge of a charged capacitor requires a certain length of time and the switches behave unstably due to temporary uncontrollability of the switches. Because of this, an LCD in the nonlighting condition is converted to the lighting condition, for example, due to the residual voltage in the capacitor. Therefore, there arises an inconvenience in which there is temporarily displayed on the display unit a content which is different from what had been displayed before the power supply was disconnected. It means that there will be a problem, in particular when a display device or the like is constructed by using LCD. This is because when the power supply for the LCD is interrupted frequently, the above inconvenience will arise for each time the power supply is disconnected, giving displeasure to the use of the device. Such a prior art control device for a liquid crystal display unit is disclosed e.g. in US A 4 186 436 which is the starting point for the present invention and acknowledged in the preamble of claim 1. Consequently, an object of the present invention is to provide an LCD control device which is capable of stably and quickly erasing the display content at the time of discontinuation of the power supply to the LCD device. Another object of the present invention is to provide an LCD control device which is capable of preventing erroneous display at the time of discontinuation of the power supply to the LCD device. Still another object of the present invention is to provide an LCD control device which is capable of quickly erasing the display content without displaying a content which is different from the content that has been displayed on the LCD panel until the time of interruption of the power supply to the LCD device. An LCD control device in accordance with the present invention is for supplying to an LCD a voltage necessary for driving the LCD unit. Such a control device comprises a boosting circuit having a dc power supply, charging and discharging means, feeding means for supplying to the liquid crystal display unit a voltage which is necessary to drive the liquid crystal display unit by controlling the charge and discharge of said charging and discharging means, and switching means for discharging the charges that are accumulated in said charging and discharging means, and is characterized in that said switching means is a separate switch which is connected across the output of said boosting circuit and which, upon a power interruption, is controlled to be closed for discharging said charging and discharging means. Said feeding means preferably comprises a first switch, a second switch, a third switch and a fourth switch, said charging and discharging means comprises a first capacitor and a second boosting capacitor, the first capacitor is connected between the first and second switch so as to be connected in parallel with said dc power supply by the action of the first and second switch, the third switch is connected between one end of said dc power supply and one end of said charging and discharging means and the second capacitor is connected between the other end of said dc power supply and one end of the fourth switch. In addition, said seperate switch may be connected in parallel with said second capacitor for discharging the charges accumulated in the second capacitor. Further developments of the invention are indicated in claims 4 to 12. These and other objects, features and advantages of the present invention will be more apparent from the following description of the preferred embodiments taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings. Referring to Fig. 1, the boosting circuit for the LCD control device embodying the present invention is shown with reference numeral 1. The boosting circuit 1 is a device for supplying a voltage which is necessary for driving the LCD that forms a display unit, and outputs a voltage of 5V with negative polarity with respect to the electromotive force of a voltage source 3 by the use of the voltage source 3 with electromotive force 5V, for example. The positive electrode of the voltage source 3 is connected to the V Next, the operation of the boosting circuit 1 shown in Fig. 1 will be described by referring to Fig. 2. In Fig. 2, first at time t₁ the switch SW₁ and the switch SW₃ are in conducting state while the switch SW₂, the switch SW₄, and the switch SW₅ for short circuiting are in nonconducting state. At the same time, one end, point A, of the capacitor C₁ is connected to the V Next, at time t₃, the switch SW₁ and the switch SW₃ change from the nonconducting state to the conducting state while the switch SW₂ and the switch SW₄ change from the conducting state to the nonconducting state, which are the same conditions as at time t₁. Here again, a voltage of 5V is charged with the point A side of the capacitor C₁ positive and its point B side negative. Then, although the switch SW₄ is in the nonconducting state in this condition, the voltage that was charged on the boosting capacitor C₂ at time t₂, as represented by the dotted line in Fig. 2, is held dynamically as is so called, such that the V Figure 3 illustrates the construction of the segment signal circuit that gives to the LCD segment voltage necessary for driving the LCD, by switching the voltage that is output from the boosting circuit. Figure 4 illustrates the construction of the common signal circuit that gives to the LCD common voltage necessary for driving the LCD, by switching the voltage that is output from the boosting circuit 1. Figure 5 is a diagram for illustrating the operation of the segment signal circuit and the common signal circuit shown in Figs. 3 and 4, respectively. In Fig. 3, the segment signal circuit is constructed by switch SW₆ through switch SW₁₁. To one end called point C hereafter of the switch SW₆ whose the other end is connected to the V In Fig. 4, the common signal circuit is constructed by switches SW₁₂ through SW₁₇. To one end called point E hereafter of the switch SW₁₂ whose the other end is connected to the V Next, referring to Fig. 5, the operation of the segment signal circuit shown in Fig. 3 and of common signal circuit shown in Fig. 4 will be described. The opening and closing at each of the times t₁ through t₇ of the switches SW₆ through SW₁₁ of the segment signal circuit and the switches SW₁₂ through SW₁₇ of the common signal circuit are controlled, for example, as shown by the figure, and the voltage that is output from the common terminal is varied with fixed cycle, for example, as 5V 0V 5V 0V 5V. By varying the segment terminal voltage in response to the common terminal voltage through charge of the voltage between the common and the segment terminals, lighting and nonlighting of the LCD can be accomplished. For example, at time t₁, the switches SW₁₂, SW₁₅, and SW₁₆ of the common signal circuit are in the conducting state while the switches SW₁₃, SW₁₄, and SW₁₇ are in the nonconducting state, so that the common terminal is connected to the V Analogous situations taking place for time to and thereafter, desired display can be accomplished by realizing the lighting and nonlighting conditions for the LCD according to the following manner. Namely, the LCD is brought to a lighting condition by generating a voltage of 10V between the segment and the common terminals through control of the opening and closing of each of the switches SW₆ through SW₁₇ of the segment signal circuit and the common signal circuit. Similarly, the LCD may be brought to a nonlighting condition by adjusting to have a voltage of 0V impressed between the segment and the common terminals through control of the opening and closing of each of the switches SW₆ through SW₁₇. When the power supply of an LCD control device constructed as above is disconnected, the switches SW₆ through SW₁₇ may become uncontrollable temporarily and behave unstably. However, even under such a condition, by changing the switch SW₅ from the nonconducting state to the conducting state by means of a control signal, such as a power supply shut off signal or a display erasure instruction signal both ends of the boosting capacitor C₂ that is connected in parallel with the switch SW₅ can be short circuited and the charge that was accumulated on the boosting capacitor C₂ will be discharged. Therefore, between the segment terminal and the common terminal there will not be output a residual voltage, such as the voltage of 10V which is necessary for lighting up the LCD. Therefore, when the power supply is disconnected the content which has been displayed can be erased without, for example, switching of the nonlighting condition of the LCD to the lighting condition with the temporary display of a content which is different from the content that has been displayed on the display until until that time. Figure 6 shows the boosting circuit of the LCD control device for a second embodiment of the invention. A special feature of the circuit is to connect a MOS type P channel transistor in parallel with the boosting capacitor C₂ of the boosting circuit 1 shown in Fig. 1. It discharges the charges that were accumulated on the boosting capacitor C₂ by short circuiting both ends of the boosting capacitor C₂ through conversion of the P channel transistor from the nonconducting condition to the conducting condition by the use of the same control signal that is used for controlling the switch SW₅. Therefore, by constructing the circuit as in the above it becomes possible to obtain effects that are similar to those of the first embodiment. In the above, the component with the same symbol as in Fig. 1 signifies the same item, and its description has been omitted. Figure 7 shows the boosting circuit of the LCD control device for a third embodiment of the present invention. In contrast to the boosting circuit 1 shown in Fig. 1 which outputs a boosted voltage of negative polarity with respect to the voltage source 3, the boosting circuit 1 shown in Fig. 7 outputs a boosted voltage of positive polarity with respect to the voltage source 3. The boosting circuit 1 is constituted by a switch SW₃ connected between the V In a boosting circuit 1 of the above construction, first, the switch SW₂ and the switch SW₃ are in the conducting state, the switch SW₁ and the switch SW₄ are in the nonconducting state, and the capacitor C₁ is charged to a voltage of 5V with negative charge on the point A side and positive charge on the point B side. Next, the switch SW₁ and the switch SW₄ are changed from the nonconducting state to the conducting state, and the switch SW₂ and the switch SW₃ are changed from the conducting state to the nonconducting state. By raising the voltage at point A from OV to 5V, the voltage at point B is raised from 5V to 10V, which changes the boosting capacitor C₂ to a voltage of 10V and the boosted voltage of 10V is output at the V Therefore, also in the case of driving the LCD by the use of the boosting circuit 1 that outputs a boosting voltage of positive polarity with respect to the voltage source 3, it becomes possible when the power supply to the LCD device is disconnected to obtain similar effects as in the first embodiment, through connection of the switch SW₅ in parallel with the boosting capacitor C₂ of the boosting circuit 1 . Figure 8 shows the boosting circuit of the LCD control device relating to a fourth embodiment of the invention. A special feature of the device is to connect a MOS type N channel transistor 11 in parallel with the boosting capacitor C2 of the boosting circuit 1 shown in Fig. 7. When the power supply to the LCD device is disconnected, the N channel transistor 11 is changed from the nonconducting state to the conducting state by means of the same controlling signal that is used for controlling the switch SW₅ , to discharge the charges accumulated on the boosting capacitor C₂ by short circuiting both ends of the boosting capacitor C₂ . By constructing the device as in the above it becomes possible to obtain the same effects as in the first embodiment. In the above, the components with the same symbols as in Fig. 7 represent the same items explanation of which has been omitted. Figure 9 shows the LCD control device relating to a fifth embodiment of the present invention. A special feature of the device consists in connecting a switch SW₁₈ between the segment terminal of the segment signal circuit shown in Fig. 3 and the common terminal of the common signal circuit shown in Fig. 4. When the power supply to the LCD device is disconnected, the voltage between the segment and the common terminals is made to be less than the voltage for realizing display by liquid crystal, by connecting the segment terminal and the common terminal through change of the switch SW₁₈ to the conducting state. With this construction, it becomes possible to erase the content that had been displayed, without displaying a content which is different from what has been displayed on the LCD control device. Figure 10 shows the LCD control device relating to a sixth embodiment of the present invention. A special feature of the device is that there is connected a MOS type P channel transistor 13 between the segment terminal and the common terminal as means of short circuiting the segment terminal and the common terminal at the time of disconnection of the power supply to the LCD device. When the power supply is disconnected, the voltage between the segment and the common terminals is arranged to be reduced to a value which is less than the voltage required for realizing a display by liquid crystal, by changing the P channel transistor from the nonconducting state to the conducting state. With such a construction, effects that are similar to the fifth embodiment will become possible to be obtained. Figure 11 shows the LCD Control device relating to a seventh embodiment of the present invention. A special feature of the device is that there is connected a MOS type N channel transistor 15 between the segment terminal and the common terminal as means of short circuiting the segment and the common terminals at the time of disconnection of the power supply to the LCD device. When the power supply is disconnected, the voltage between the segment and the common terminals is arranged to be reduced to a value which is loss than the voltage required for realizing a display by liquid crystal, by changing the N channel transistor from the nonconducting state to the conducting state. With such a construction, effects that are similar to the fifth embodiment will become possible to be obtained. It should be noted that although the boosting circuit described in the first and the third embodiments is one that outputs a boosted voltage which is twice as large the voltage of the voltage source, it is of course possible according to the present invention to obtain similar effects by the use of an LCD device which uses a boosting circuit that outputs a boosting voltage that is 2 N N 1 times that of the power supply. In summary, according to the present invention, it is arranged, when disconnecting the power supply, to discharge quickly the charges that were accumulated on the capacitor for obtaining a voltage that is necessary to drive and display liquid crystal, by carrying out charging and discharging through control of feeding. Therefore, it is possible to provide an LCD control device which is capable, at the time of disconnection of the power supply, of quickly erasing the displayed content, without displaying a content which is different from what has been displayed on the liquid display panel.