# Hydroxymethylcephem compounds and their preparation.

## Abstract
A process for preparing 7 beta acylamino 3 hydroxy methyl 3 cephem 4 carboxylic acids, optionally having 7 alpha methoxy groups, or their alkali metal salts, comprises treating 7 beta acylaminocephalosporanic acids optionally having 7 alpha methoxy groups or their alkali metal salts with aqueous alkali metal hydroxides in lower alkanols.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A process for preparing a 7B acylamino 3 hydroxymethyl 3 cephem 4 carboxylic acid, optionally having a 7a methoxy group, or its alkali metal salt comprising treating a 76 acylaminocephalosporanic acid, optionally having a 7a methoxy group, with aqueous alkali metal hydroxide in a lower alkanol. 2. A process as claimed in claim 1, wherein the acyl group has from 1 to 20 carbon atoms. 3. A process as claimed in claim 1 or claim 2, wherein the alkali metal hydroxide is sodium hydroxide. 4. A process as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 3, wherein from 1 to 8 molar equivalents of the alkali metal hydroxide are used. 5. A process as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 4, wherein the lower alkanol is a 1C to 5C alkanol, preferably methanol. 6. A process as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 5, wherein the ratio of water and alkanol, preferably methanol, is between 1 3 and 3 1. 7. A process as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 6, wherein the ratio of lower alkanol to the starting cephem is from 1 3 to 1 10 weight by weight. 8. A process as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 7, wherein the treatment is carried out at a temperature between 400C and OOC for from 5 minutes to 3 hours. 9. A process as claimed in any one of class 1 to 8, wherein the product is neutralized to give the corresponding free acid. 10. A compound selected from the group consisting of 7ss difluoromethylthio acetylamino 7 alpha methoxy 3 hydroxy methyl 3 cephem 4 carboxylic acid 7ss 2 2 tert butoxycarbonylamino 4 thiazolyl 2 methoxy imino acetylamino 3 hydroxymethyl 3 cephem 4 carboxylic acid 7ss 2 2 t butoxycarbonylamino 4 thiazolyl 2 butenoylamino 3 hydroxymethyl 3 cephem 4 carboxylic acid 7ss 2 2 bentyloxycarbonylamino 4 thiazolyl 4 tert butoxy carbonyl 2 butenoylamino 3 hydroxymethyl 3 cephem 4 carboxylic acid 7ss 2 2 tert butoxycarbonylamino 4 thiazolyl 2 pentenoylamino 3 hydroxymethyl 3 cephem 4 carboxylic acid sodium salt, 7ss 2 2 tert butoxycarbonylamino 4 thiazolyl 2 hexenoylamino 3 hydroxymethyl 3 cephem 4 carboxylic acid 7 ss 12 2 t butoxycarbonylamino 4 thiazolyl 4 methyl 2 pentenoylamino 3 hydroxymethyl 3 cephem 4 carboxylic acid and 7ss 2 2 t butoxycarbonylamino 4 thiazol yl 4 cyclopentyl 2butenoylamino 3 hydroxymethyl 3 cephem 4 carboxylic acid and cis and trans isomers and alkali metal salts thereof. 11. The use of a 76 acylaminocephalosporanic acid, optionally having a 7a methoxy group, or an alkali metal salt thereof which has been prepared by a process as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 9 or which is claimed in claim 10 in producing a cephalosporin, e.g. a cephalosporin having a 3carbamoyloxmethyl group, or in the production of a therapeutic formulation for the treatment or prophylaxis of bacterial infections, said formulation optionally containing a diluent, carrier or excipient and or being in unit dosage form.

## Description
HYDROXYMETHYLCEPHEM COMPOUNDS AND THEIR PREPARATION This invention relates to a process for preparing 7 acyl amino 3 hydroxymethyl 3 cephem 4 carboxylic acids optionally having 7a methoxy groups or their alkali metal salts, which process comprises treating 7ss acylaminocephalosporanic acids optionally having 7a methox r groups or their alkali metal salts with an aqueous alkali metal hydroxide in a lower alkanol.EMI1.1 wherein RX is acyl R2 is hydrogen or methoxy R3 is hydrogen or alkali metal and Ac is acetyl The objective compounds of this invention 2 were believed to be available by hydrolysis with a base on a large scale only with difficulty due to betalactam fission Journal of Medicinal Chemistry,Volue 17, page 1312 1974 and to practically irreversible lactonization between 3 methylol and 4 carboxy groups with acid during work up of the reaction mixture. Thus industrial production has been carried out using enzymes e.g. Belgian Patent No. 671692 and US Patent No. 3459746 . However, such enzymatic processes require tedious handling processes for the voluminous reaction mixture.Recently, alkali metal hydroxides have been used when the aside chain is amino Japanase Patent Publication Kokai 99486 1983 Hungarian Patent Application T 033155 . It was said that the success probably resulted from an interaction of amino with 4 carboxy. The present invention is based upon the surprising discovery that hydrolysis with aqueous sodium hydroxide in methanol works well even in the case of B acylaminocephalosporanic acids for which no successful chemical hydrolysis has yet been reported nor industrially operated . Thus, according to the process of this invention, a 7ss acyl aminocephalosporanic acids optionally having a 7a.inthoxy group, or an alkali metal salt thereof is treated with an alkali metal hydroxide in a lower alkanol to obtain the corresponding 3 hydroxymethyl 3 cephem 4 carboxylic acid in high yield. Acyl R1CO in the above reaction scheme is optionally substituted aliphatic, alicyclic, aromatic, heteroaromatic, or like carboxylic acyl preferably containing 1 to 20 carbon atoms, especially that of the desired objective cephalosporins. It may be acyl as found in the amido side chain of natural or optionally protected synthetic penicillins or cephalosporins. Typical acyl groups include the following 1 R10CH2CO 2 R10OCH,CO 3 R10SCH2CO4 R10CHCO R11EMI3.1 and 6 R13CO wherein R10 is hydrogen or an aliphatic, aromatic, heterocyclic, or alicyclic group R1 is an optionally protected hydroxy, amino, carboxy, sulfo, mercapto, cyano, or like group R1 2 is an oxo, thioxo, imino, hydroxyimino, optionally substituted alkoxyimino, alkylidene, or like divalent group and R1 is hydrogen or an aromatic or heterocyclic group The aliphatic group R10 may be optionally substituted alkyl, alkenyl, or alkynyl the aromatic group Rl may be optionally substituted phenyl or naphthyl the heterocyclic group R10 may be a five or six membered monocyclic or dicyclic heterocyclic group having 1 to 4 nitrogen atoms and or oxygen or sulfur as the hetero atom and the alicyclic group R10 may be an optionally substituted four to six membered optionally 1 or 2 unsaturated cycloalkyl group.When the group R11 is protected, such protection includes that preventing adverse change during synthesis or in the body and for improving physiological or pharmacological characteristics. Typical examples of the former are optionally substituted alkyl or heterocycle e.g. , t butyl, tetrahydropyranyl, tetra hydrofuranyl alkenyl forming an enol ether or enamine alkylated or alkoxylated silyl or stannyl optionally substituted aralkyl e.g., methoxybenzyl, phenacyl, benzhydryl, trityl optionally substituted acyl e.g., alkanoyl, alkenoyl, aroyl, carbonic acyl and when R11 is carboxy, an optionally substituted alkyl, aralkyl, aryl or the like ester or amide group. The protecting group is a group removable without adverse effects other parts of tile molecule. Typical examples of the latter are when R11 is hydroxy sulfo, optionally N substituted carbamoyl. optionally N substituted sulfamoyl, carbalkoxy, carbaralkoxy, optionally substituted alkanoyl. aralkanoyl, aroyl, or heterocyclic carbonyl when R is aminoj alkylsulfonyl, alkyloxoimidazolidinylcarbonyl. diketopiperazinylcarbonyl, alkylureidocarbonyl, or alkylthioureido carbonyl and when R1 I is carboxy or sulfo groups removable in the body. i.e.. sq called pharmacologically active ester group 1 oxygenated alkyl, aryl or the like. The substituent attached to the optionally substituted alkoxyimino or alkylidene R12 may be carboxy, esterified or amidated carboxy, hydroxyalkyl, acyloxyalkyl, alkoxy, or the like, and each may be saturated, unsaturated, linear, branched, or cyclic. The group R13 may be hydrogen or an optionally substituted mono or di cyclic aryl. heterocyclic group, or a fused ring group in which the second ring may be non romatic The groups R10 to R13 may have a substituent. Typical examples of the substituent include a carbon function e. g. , linear, branched, or cyclic alkyl, acyl, aralkyl, aryl, heteroaromatic, carbamoyl, carboxy, cyano, or the like, each optionally having amino. hydroxy, oxo, carboxy, or the like a nitrogen function e. g. , amino. acylamino, guanidyl, ureido, alkylamino, aralkylamino, isothiocyano. isocyano, nitro, nitroso an oxygen function e.g., hydroxy, alkoxy, aralkoxy. aryloxy, heterocyclic oxy, oxo, cyanato. acyloxy or a . corresponding sulfur function sulfo sulfamoyl halogen and substituted silyl or stannyl. The aryl part in the groups R10 to R13 may be carbocyclic or heterocyclic, monocyclic or dicyclic, and five or six membered aryl optionally substituted as given above. Typical heterocyelic groups incude furyl, thicnyl, pyrrolyl, oxezolyl, thiazolyl, imidazolyl, oxadiazolyl, thiadiazolyl, thiatriazolyl, tetrazolyl, pyridyl, quinolyl, pyridopyridyl, and the like. The alkyl part in the groups R10 to R13 may be saturated, unsaturated linear, branched, or cyclic. The lower alkanol used may preferably be methanol, ethanol, propanol, butanol isobutanol. t butanol. or liks 1C to SC alkanol especially methanol or ethanol. The ratio of the lower alkanol to water in the aqueous alkali metal hydroxide is preferably 1 4 to 4 1, especially 1 3 to 3 1. When the ratio of both solvents is beyond the above range, then the the reaction is slower and the formation of by products is significant. The alkali metal hydroxide may be lithitim hydroxide, sodium hydroxide, or potassium hydroxide. At least 1 molar equivalent of the alkali metal hydroxide is used for the hydrolysis and to neutrallize the resulting acetic acid. If the starting cephalosporanic acid is free then another I molar equivalent of the alkali metal hydroxide is necessary for neutralizing the carboxy group. Under typical conditions for this invention, aqueous alkal metal hydroxide I to 8 molar equivalents is added to a solution of 7 acylaminocephalosporanic acid optionally having a 7a meCoxy group, in a lower alkanol, especially methanol or ethanol, 3 to 10 parts by weight of the starting cephem compound and in 1 3 to 3 part by weight of water in the aqueous alkali metal hydroxide , and the mixture is stirred for 5 minutes to 3 hours at 70 C to 0 C. preferably at 40 C to 10 C to give alkali metal 7 acyl amino 3 hydroxymethyl 3 cephem 4 carboxylate optionally having 7 a methoxy in up to 99 X yield.The product may be recovered from the reaction mixture by desalting and or lyophilizing. When the said reaction mixture is neutralized slowly prefer ably with mineral acid with stirring at a low temperature especially at lOC to 5 C to prevent the lactonization, the corresponding free carboxylic acid is obtained in high yield. To the reaction medium mag be added an inert polar solvent as a co solvent. Typical co solvents include ethers e.g. dioxane, tetrahydrofuran , ketones e.g., acetone, cyclohexanone . nitriles e. g. , acetonitrile , amides e. g. , formamide, dimethylacetamide, hexamethylphosphorotriamide , sulfoxides e. g. , dimethylsulfoxide , organic bases e.g., diethylamine, triethylamine , alcohols e.g., methanol1 ethanol, propanol, hexanol, octanol, benzyl alcohol , and like industrial solvents , or a mixture of two or more of these. The objective product may be recovered from the reaction mixture after removing contaminants e.g., unreacted starting material, by products, solvents by a conventional method e.g., extraction, washing, concentration, precipitation, filtration, drying and purified by usual work up procedures e.g., adsorption elution, precipitation. separation, crystallization, lyophiliz ation . Some of the objective compounds are novel. The following are representative examples 7 ss difluoromethylthio acetylamino 7 a methoxy 3 hydroxymethyl 3 cephem 4 carboxylic acid, 7 ss 2 2 tert butoxycarbonylamino 4 thiazolyl 2 methoxy imino acetylarnino 3 hydroxymethyl 3 cephem 4 carboxylic acid, 7 ss 12 2 t butoxycarbonylamino 4 thiazolyl 2 butenoyl amino 3 hydroxymethyl 3 cephem 4 carboxyl ic acid, 7 ss 2 2 benzylosycarbonylamino 4 thiazolyl 4 tert butoxy carbonyl 2 butenoylamino 3 hydroxymethyl 3 cephem 4 carboxylic acid, 7ss 2 2 tert butoxycarbonylamino 4 thiazolyl 2 pentenoylamino 3 hydroxymethyl 3 cephem 4 carboxylic acid sodium salt. 7 B 2 tert butoxycarbonylamino 4 thiazolyl 2 hexenoylamino 3 hqdroxymethyl 3 cephem 4 carboxylic acid. 7ss 2 2 t butoxycarbonylamino 4 thiazolyl 4 methyl 2 pentenoylamino 3 hydroxymethyl 3 cephem 4 carboxyl ic acid, and 7ss 2 2 t butoxycarbonylamino 4 thiazol yl 4 cyclopentyl 2 butenoylamino 3 hydroxymethyl 3 cephem 4 carboxylic acid, and cis and trans isomers and alkali metal salts of these. The merit of this invention is that the betalactam ring is intact and lactonization is hardly observable, even after.work up of the reaction mixture. As explained above, the known hydrolysis with a base produces 7 amino 3 hydroxymethyl 3 cephem 4 carboxylic acid. When this is used as the starting material for producing cephalosporins, it has to be acylated at its 7ss amino position. In order to avoid side reactions, the acylation has to be done under Schotten Baumann conditions. Thus when the acyl to be introduced cannot form an acid chloride efficiently, the known hydrolysis is not useful.In the method of this invention, the acyl is already present in the starting material. and so the type of acyl group can be chosen more freely than in the prior art. This is the second merit of this invention. The objective 7 acylamino 3 hydroxymethyl 3 cephem 4 carboxylic acids aptionally having 7 alpha methoxy and their alkali metal salts are useful as starting materials for producing, for example, cephalosporins having a 3 carbamoyloxymethyl group e.g. cefoxitin, cefuroxime , by a well l now acylation procedure. The following examples illustrate the invention.The physical constants of the products are listed on Table 1. In the table, IR shows wave number y in cm 1 and NMR shows chemical shift in ppm and coupling constant J in Hz. In the Examples, the amounts shown by part are the weight of the substance per 1 part by weight of the starting betalactam. The amount shown by equivalent is the molar ratio of the substance per 1 mole of the starting betalactam. The reaction employed in the following Examples is represented b the following equation EMI10.1 Example 1 R1 CO formyl. R2 hydrogen To a solution of the starting cephalosporanic acid 1 in methanol 4.3 parts is added aqueous 1N sodium hydroxide 1 equivalent at 10 C, and the mixture is stirred for 10 minutes. Then, another 1 equivalent of aqueous 1N sodium hydroxide is added and the mixture is stirred for 20 minutes. The reaction mixture is diluted with water 17 parts and concentrated under reduced pressure. The remaining aqueous solution is passed through a column of stylene divinylbenzene copolymer 75 parts Synthetic adsorbent Diaion HP 20 distributed by Mitsubishi Kasei Kogyo K.K. to trap the product. The product is eluted with water. The eluate is lyophilized to give 7ss formamido 3 hydroxymethyl 3 cephem 4 carboxylic acid sodium salt 2 0.61 parts . Yield 65 . Example 2 RlCO difluoromethylthioacethyl, R2 methoxy To a solution of the starting cephalosporanic acid 1 in methanol 20 parts is added aqueous lN sodium hydroxide 2.5 equivalents at 20 C, and the mixture is stirred for 40 minutes at 20 to 15iC. The reaction mixture is neutralized with 1N hydrochloric acid 1.5 equivalents and concentrated under reduced pressure to remove methanol. The remaining aqueous solution is passed through a column of stylene divinylbenzene copolymer 88 parts Synthetic adsorbent Diaion HP 20 distributed by MitsubishiKasei Kogyo K.K. to trap the product. The product is eluted with water.The eluate is lyophilized to give 7ss difluoromethylthio acetylamino 7 a methoxy 3 hydroxymethyl 3 cephem 4 carboxylic acid sodium salt 2 as powder 0.83 parts . Yield 87 X. Another reaction mixture is neutralized with lN hydrochloric acid cautiously to adjust pH to 2 to 3 and extracted several times with ethyl acetate to give the crude carboxylic acid in 60 X yield.Example 3 . R1CO 2 thienylacety, 22 hydrogen To a suspension of the starting cephalosporanic acid 1 sodium salt in a mixture of water 6 parts and methanol 8 2 parts is added aqueous 1N sodium hydroxide 0.5 equivalents at 10 C and the mixture is stirred for 30 minutes. Then, another 0.5 equivalents of aqueous 1N sodium hydroxide is added and the mixture is stirred for 30 minutes. The reaction mixture is mixed with 1N hydrochloric acid 2 parts 1 aqueous saturated sodium hydrogen carbonate 10 parts and water 20 parts and concentrated under reduced pressure. The remaining aqueous solution is passed through a column of stylene divinylbenzene copolymer 32 parts Synthetic adsorbent Diaion HP 20 distributed by Mitsubishi KaseiKogyo K.K. to trap the product.The product is eluted with a mixture of methanol and water 1 2 The eluate is lyophilized to give 7 2 thienyl acetylamino 3 hydroxymethyl 3 cephem 4 carboxylic acid sodium salt a 0.74 parts . Yield 83 X.Example 4 Ra CO 2 2 furyl 2 metoxyiminoacety, R2 s H To a solution of the starting cephalosporanic acid 1 in methanol 10 parts is added aqueous 1N sodium hydroxide 5.7 parts 2.4 equivalent at 15iC, and the mixture is stirred for 20 minutes. The reaction mixture is neutralized with IN hydro chloric acid to pH 7, diluted with water 20 parts 1 and concentrated under reduced pressure. The remaining aqueous solution is passed through a column of stylene divinylbenzene copolymer 50 parts Synthetic adsorbent Diaion HP 20 distributed by MitsubishiKasei Kogyo K.K. to trap the product. The product is eluted with water to a mixture of methanol and water 1 5 .The eluate is lyophilized to give 7ss 2 2 furyl 2 methoxyimino acetylamino 3 hydroxymethyl 3 cephem 4 carboxylic acid sodium salt 2 0.74 parts . Yield 78 .Example 5 R1CO 2 2 t butoxycarbonylamino 4 thiazolyl 2 methoxyimino acetyl, R2 s hydrogen To a solution of the starting cephalosporanic acid 1 in methanol 6.9 parts is added aqueous 1N sodium hydroxide 1 equivalent at 10 C, and the mixture is stirred for 1 hour. Then, another aqueous 1N sodium hydroxide 1 equivalent is added and the mixture is stirred for 10 minutes. To the reaction mixture are added iN hydrochloric acid 2 parts . aqueous saturated sodium hydrogen carbonate 10 parts . and water 30 parts 1 and the mixture is concentrated under reduced pressure. The remaining aqueous solution is passed through a column of stylene divinylberizene copolymer 4i parts Synthetic adsorbent Diaion HP 20 distributed by Mitsubishi Kasei Kogyo K.K. to trap the product.The product is eluted with a mixture of methanol and water 1 2 to 1 1 . The eluate is lyophilized to give 7ss 2 2 tert butoxycarbonylamino 4 thiazolyl 2 methoxyimino acetylamino 3hydroxymethyl 3 cephem 4 carboxylic acid sodium salt 2 0.67 parts . Yield 70 X. Example 6 C R CO cis 2 2 t butoxycarbonylamino 4 thiazolyl 2 butenoyl. R2 hydrogen To a solution of the starting cephalosporanic acid 1 in methanol 7.5 parts is added aqueous 1N sodium hydroxide 4.7 parts 2.5 equivalents at 25iC, and the mixture is stirred for 70 minutes. The reaction mixture is neutralized with lN hydro chloric acid to pH 6.s, diluted with ethyl acetate 7.5 parts and water 1.9 parts . and concentrated under reduced pressure. The resulting aqueous solution is acidified with lNhydrochloric acid to pH 2.5 and extracted with ethyl acetate.The extract is washed with water1 dried, and concentrated under reduced pressure to give 7ss cis 2 2 t butoxycarbonylamino 4 thiazolyl 2 butenoylamino 3 hydroxymethyl 3 cephem 4 carboxylic acid 2 0.90 parts . Yield 97 X.Example 7 R1 CO trans 2 2 t butoxycarbonylamino 4 thiazolyl 2 butenoyl. R2 hydrogen To a solution of the starting cephalosporanic acid 1 in methanol 6.9 parts is added aqueous 1N sodium hydroxide 1 equivalent at 15 C, and the mixture is stirred for 20 minutes. Then, another aqueous IN sodium hydroxide 1 equivalent is added and the mixture is stirred for 10 minutes, Then, further aqueous 1N sodium hydroxide 0.5 equivalent is added and the mixture is stirred for 30 minutes. To the reaction mixture are added 1N hydrochloric acid 3 parts , aqueous saturated sodium hydrogen carbonate 10 parts . and water 30 parts , and the mixture is concentrated under reduced pressure. The remaining aqueous solution is passed through a column of stylene divinylbenzene copolymer 45 parts Synthetic adsorbent Diaion HP 20 distributed by Mitsubishi Kasei Kogyo K.K. to trap the product. The product is eluted with a mixture of methanol and water 1 2 to 1 I .The eluate is lyophilized to give 7B ltrans 2 2 tert butoxy carbonylamino 4 thiazolyl 2 butenoylamino 3 hydroxymethyl 3 cephem 4 carboxylic acid sodium salt 2 0.69 parts . Yield 72 Example 8 RlCO cis and trans 2 2 benzyloxycarbonylamino 4 thiazolyl 4 t butoxycarbonyl 2 butenoyl. R2 hydrogen To a solution of the starting cephalosporanic acid 1 in methanol 10 parts is added aqueous 1N sodium hydroxide 2.5 equivalents at 40 C. and the mixture is stirred for 40 minutes at 25 C.The reaction mixture is neutralized with 4N hydrochloric acid to p11 6 to 7, concentrated to a half volume, washed with ether, and passed through a column of stylene divinylbenzene copolymer 10 parts Synthetic adsorbent Diaion HP 20 distributed by Mitsubishi Kasei Kogyo K.K. to trap the product. The product is eluted with a mixture of methanol and water 3 10 to 4 1 . The eluate is concentrated and lyophilized to give a mixture of cisand trans 7 ss 12 2 benzyloxycarbonylamino 4 thiazolyl 4 tertbutoxycarbonyl 2 butenoylamino 3 hydroxymethyl 3 cephem 4carboxylic acid sodium salts 2 0.45 parts . Yield 49 X. Example 9 R1CO cis 2 2 t butoxycarbonylamino 4 thiazolyl 2 pentenoyl, R2 hydrogen To a solution of the starting cephalosporanic acid 1 in methanol 6 parts is added aqueous 1N sodium hydroxide 1.4 parts 1.0 equivalent at 15iC, and the mixture is stirred for 5 minutes. Then. another aqueous 1N sodium hydroxide 2.2 parts 1.5 equivalent is added and the mixture is stirred for 20 minutes. The reaction mixture is neutralized with lN hydrochloric acid to pH 6. diluted with water 20 parts and concentrated under reduced pressure. The remaining aqueous solution is passed through a column of stylene divinylbenzene copolymer 40 parts Synthetic adsorbent Diaion HP 20 distributed by Mitsubishi KaseiKogyo K.K. to trap the product.The product is eluted with a mixture of methanol and water 1 3 to 1 2 . The eluate is lyophilized to give 7 ss cis 2 2 tert butoxycarbonylamino 4 thiazolyl 2 penten oylamino 3 hydroxymethyl 3 cephem 4 carboxylic acid sodium salt C 0.65 parts . Yield 67 X.Example 10 R CO cis 2 2 t butoxycarbonylamino 4 thiazolyl 2 hexenoyl. R2 hydrogen To a solution of the starting cephalosporanic acid I in methanol 9.8 parts is added aqueous 1N sodium hydroxide 4.5 parts 2.5 equivalent at 35 C. and the mixture is stirred for 100 minutes. The reaction mixture is neutralized with IN hydrochloric acid to pH 7, and separating precipitate is collected by filtration. This is dissolved in aqueous sodium hydrogen carbonate 1 equivalent and lyophilized to give 7ss 2 tert butoxycarbonylamino 4 thiazolyl 2 hexenoylamino 3 hydroxymethyl3 cephem 4 carboxylic acid sodium salt 2 0.69 parts . Yield 70 X. Example 11 R1CO cis 2 2 t butoxycarbonylamino 4 thiazolyl 4 methyl 2 pentenoyl. R2 hydrogen To a solution of the starting cephalosporanic acid 1 in methanol 9.4 parts is added aqueous lN sodium hydroxide 4.5 parts 2.5 equivalent at 35 C, and the mixture is stirred for lIO minutes. The reaction mixture is neutralized with lN hydrochloric acid to pH 7, made alkaline with aqueous sodium hydrogen carbonate to pH 9, and concentrated under reduced pressure. The resulting aqueous solution is remove methanol. The remaining aqueous solution is passed through a column of stylene divinylbenzene copolymer Synthetic adsorbent Diaion HP 20 distributed byMitsubishi Kasei Kogyo K.K. to trap the product. The product is eluted with a mixture of methanol and water 1 5 .The eluate is lyophilized to give 7B cis 2 2 t butoxycarbonylamino 4 thiazolyl 4 methyl 2 pentenoylamino 3 hydroxymethyl 3 cephem 4carboxylic acid sodium salt 2 0.61 parts . Yield 63 .Example 12 R COcis 2 2 t butoxycarbonylamino 4 thiazolyl 4 cyclopentyl 2 butenoyl, R2 hydrogen To a solution of the starting cephalosporanic acid 1 in methanol 8.3 parts is added aqueous 1N sodium hydroxide 4.2 parts. 2.5 equivalents at 20eC to 25 C, and the mixture is stirred for 60 minutes. The reaction mixture is neutralized with lN hydrochloric acid to pH 7 and concentrated under reduced pressure. The residual aqueous solution is acidified to pH 2.6 and extracted with ethyl acetate. The extract is washed with water and concentrated under reduced pressure.The resulting material is dissolved in aqueous sodium hydrogen carbonate 10 parts. 1 molar equivalent and lyophilized to give 7ss cis 2 2 t butoxycarbonylamino 4 thiazolyl 4 cyclopentyl 2 butenoyl amino 3 hydroxymethyl 3 cephem 4 carboxyl ic acid sodium salt 2 0.90 parts . Yield 91 X. Table 1 Part 1 Physical constants of EMI19.1 EMI19.2 No SEP R1CO SEP R2 SEP IR KBr cm 1 SEP NMR D2O TMS SEP external SEP standard SEP ppm tb 1 SEP formyl SEP H SEP 3400, SEP 1760, SEP 1672, SEP 3.92, SEP 4.12 ABq, SEP J 19Hz, SEP 2H , SEP 4.73 s, SEP 2H , tb SEP 1600. SEP 1hydrate SEP 5.60 d, SEP J 5Hz, SEP 1H , SEP 6.19 d, SEP J 5Hz, SEP 1H , SEP 8.70 tb SEP s, SEP 1H . tb 2 SEP difluoromethylthiy SEP CH3O SEP 3400, SEP 3280, SEP 1760, SEP 3.86, SEP 4.11 ABq, SEP J 18.9Hz, SEP 2H , SEP 4.04 s, tb SEP acctyl SEP 1677, SEP 1600, SEP 1530, SEP 3H , SEP 4.73 s, SEP 2H , SEP 5.65 s, SEP 1H , SEP 7.61 t, SEP J tb SEP free SEP acid SEP 1070, SEP 1025 SEP 55.5Hz, SEP 1H . SEP Na SEP salt tb 3 SEP Z thienylacetyl SEP H SEP 3400, SEP 3280, SEP 1750, SEP 3.84, SEP 4.00 ABq, SEP J 18Hz, SEP 2H , SEP 4.30 s, SEP 2H , tb SEP 1657, SEP 1600, SEP 1550. SEP 4.68 s, SEP 2H , SEP 5.48 d, SEP J 4Hz, SEP 1H , SEP 6.03 d, tb SEP 1hydrate SEP J 4Hz, SEP 1H , SEP 7.45 m, SEP 2H , SEP 7.74 m, SEP 1H . tb Table 1 Part 2 EMI20.1 No SEP R1CO SEP R2 SEP IR KBr cm 1 SEP NMR D2O TMS SEP external SEP standard SEP ppm tb 4 SEP 2 2 furyl 2 SEP H SEP 3400, SEP 1760, SEP 1665, SEP 3.89, SEP 4.07 ABq, SEP J 19Hz, SEP 2H , SEP 4.40 s, SEP 3H , tb SEP methoxyimino acetyl SEP 1600, SEP 1535. SEP 4.65, SEP 4.73 ABq, SEP J 14Hz, SEP 2H , SEP 5.60 d, SEP J 5 tb SEP Hz, SEP 1H , SEP 6.20 d, SEP J 5Hz, SEP 1H , SEP 7.02 dd, SEP J tb SEP 2Hz, SEP J 4Hz, SEP 1H , SEP 7.28 d, SEP J 4Hz, SEP 1H , SEP 8.11 tb SEP d, SEP J 2Hz, SEP 1H . tb 5 SEP 2 2 t butoxycarbonyl SEP H SEP 3400, SEP 1762, SEP 1721, SEP 3.87, SEP 4.08 ABq, SEP J 21Hz, SEP 2H , SEP 4.41 s, SEP 3H , tb SEP aminothiazol 4 yl 2 SEP 1670, SEP 1600, SEP 1551. SEP 4.69 s, SEP 2H , SEP 5.58 d, SEP J 4Hz, SEP 1H , SEP 6.19 d, tb SEP methoxyimino acetyl SEP anhydrous SEP J 4Hz, SEP 1H , SEP 7.78 s, SEP 1H . tb 6 SEP cis 2 2 t butoxy SEP H SEP nd. SEP 1.54 s, SEP 9H , SEP 2.02 d, SEP J 8.0Hz, SEP 3H , SEP 3.59 s, tb SEP carbonylaminothiazol SEP 2H , SEP 4.15, SEP 4.51 ABq, SEP J 13.5Hz, SEP 2H , SEP 5.04 tb SEP 4 yl 2 butenoyl SEP d, SEP J 5.0Hz, SEP 1H , SEP 5.85 d, SEP J 5 Hz, SEP 1H , tb SEP free SEP acid SEP 6.52 q, SEP J 8.0Hz, SEP 1H , SEP 6.77 s, SEP 1H . tb 7 SEP trans 2 2 t butoxy SEP H SEP 3400, SEP 1755, SEP 1722, SEP 1.93 s, SEP 9H , SEP 2.29 d, SEP J 7Hz, SEP 3H , SEP 3.81, tb SEP carbonylaminothiazol SEP 1665, SEP 1605, SEP 1550, SEP 4.06 ABq, SEP J 19Hz, SEP 2H , SEP 4.70 s, SEP 2H , SEP 5.53 tb SEP 4 yl 2 butenoyl SEP 0.5 SEP hydrate SEP d, SEP J 4Hz, SEP 1H , SEP 6.11 d, SEP J 4HZ, SEP 1H , SEP 7.4 m, tb SEP 1H , SEP 7.43 s, SEP 1H . tb Table 1 Part 3 EMI21.1 No SEP RÚCO SEP Rê SEP IR KBr SEP cm 1 SEP NMR D2O SEP SEP TMS SEP external SEP standard SEP ppm tb 8 SEP cis 2 2 benzyloxy SEP H SEP nd. SEP 1.45 s, SEP 9H , SEP 3.3 4.5 m, SEP 6H , SEP 4.95 5.10 m, tb SEP carbonylaminothiazol SEP 1H , SEP 5.23 s, SEP 2H , SEP 5.65 5.80 m,1H , SEP 6.6 7.0 tb SEP 4 yl 4 tert butoxy SEP m, SEP 1H , SEP 7.09 s, SEP 1H , SEP 7.2 SEP SEP 7.5 m, SEP 5H . tb SEP crbonyl 2 butenoyl SEP CDOD tb 9 SEP cis 2 2 t butoxy SEP H SEP 3400, SEP 1756, SEP 1721, SEP 1.45 t, SEP J 7Hz, SEP 3H , SEP 1.88 s, SEP 9H , SEP 2.66 m, tb SEP carbonylaminothiazol SEP 1656, SEP 1600, SEP 1548. SEP 2H , SEP 3.84, SEP 4.04 ABq, SEP J 13Hz, SEP 2H , SEP 4.67 s, tb SEP 4 yl 2 pentenoyl SEP 2H , SEP 5.56 d, SEP J 5Hz, SEP 1H , SEP 6.18 d, SEP J 5Hz, tb SEP 1H , SEP 5.62 t, SEP J 8Hz, SEP 1H , SEP 7.24 s, SEP 1H , tb 10 SEP cis 2 2 t butoxy SEP H SEP 3220, SEP 1755, SEP 1725, SEP 0.95 t, SEP J 8Hz , SEP 1.55 s, SEP 9H , SEP 2.35 brq, tb SEP carbonylaminothiazol SEP 1660, SEP 1605, SEP 1550. SEP J 8Hz, SEP 2H , SEP 3.52 brs, SEP 2H , SEP 3.82 brs, SEP 2H , tb SEP 4 yl 2 hexenoyl SEP 5.03 d,J 5Hz, SEP 1H , SEP 5.79 d, SEP J 5Hz, SEP 1H . tb SEP 6.44 t, SEP J 8Hz, SEP 1H , SEP 6.79 s, SEP 1H . tb 11 SEP cis 2 2 t butoxy SEP H SEP 3250, SEP 1755, SEP 1725, SEP 1.06 d, SEP J 7Hz, SEP 6H , SEP 1.53 s, SEP 9H , SEP 2.5 3.1 tb SEP carbonylaminothiazol SEP 1660, SEP 1600. SEP m, SEP 1H , SEP 3.45 m, SEP 2H , SEP 3.81 s, SEP 2H , SEP 5.02 tb SEP 4 yl 4 methyl 2 SEP d, SEP J 5Hz, SEP 1H , SEP 5.77 d, SEP J 5Hz, SEP 1H , SEP 6.22 tb SEP pentenoyl SEP d, SEP J SEP 10Hz, SEP 1H , SEP 6.80 s, SEP 1H . tb Table 1 Part 4 EMI22.1 No SEP RÚCO SEP Rê SEP IR KBr SEP cm 1 SEP NMR SEP D2O SEP SEP TMS SEP external SEP standard SEP ppm tb 12 SEP cis 2 2 t butoxy SEP H SEP nd. SEP TLC SEP Rf SEP 0.45 SEP SiO2 EtOAc HOAc H2O SEP SEP 8 1 1 . tb SEP carbonylaminothiazol SEP 4 yl 4 cyclopentyl 2 SEP butenoyl tb