# Easily poled 0 3 piezoelectric composites for transducer applications.

## Abstract
A PZT polymer composite of 0 3 connectivity further includes a third phase particulate additive of conductive or semiconductive material to increase the electrical conductivity of the polymer matrix.

## Claims
Claims 1. A piezoelectric polymer composite material of 0 3 connectivity which comprises a matrix of insulating polymer, a piezoelectric ceramic powder dispersed within said polymer matrix and a conductive or semiconductive particulate third phase additive dispersed within said polymer matrix. said third phase additive having an electrical conductivity greater than the electrical conductivity of said insulating polymer matrix. 2. The piezoelectric polymer composite of claim 1 wherein said third phase particulate additive has an electrical conductivity of at least about 10 3 ohm 1 cam . 3. The piezoelectric polymer composite of claim 1 wherein said third phase particulate additive comprises about 1.5 to about 4 vol. of said composite. 4. The piezoelectric polymer composite of claim 1 wherein said third phase additive is inorganic. 5. The piezoelectric polymer composite of claim 4 wherein said third phase particulate additive is a conductive metal. 6. The piezoelectric polymer composite of claim 4 wherein said third phase particulate additive is a semiconductive material. 7. The piezoelectric polymer composite of claim 6 wherein said semiconductive material is carbon. 8. The piezoelectric polymer composite of claim 6 wherein said semiconductive material is germanium. 9. The piezoelectric polymer composite of claim 6 wherein said semiconductive material is silicon. 10. The piezoelectric polymer composite of claim 1 wherein said piezoelectric ceramic powder comprises at least about 60 vol. of said ceramic powder and polymer mixture. 11. The piezoelectric polymer composite of claim 10 wherein said insulating polymer is an epoxy resin. 12. The piezoelectric polymer composite of claim 1 wherein said piezoelectric ceramic powder is lead zirconate titanate.

## Description
EASILY POLED 0 3 PIEZOELECTRIC COMPOSITES FOR TRANSDUCER APPLICATIONSBACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION This invention is related to piezoelectric materials and, more particularly, to a 0 3 PZT poiymer composite for transducer applications and the like. Piezoelectricity can be explained as electric polarization produced by mechanical stress in certain substances. Piezoelectric materials. such as lead zirconate titanate PZT , are used in a wide variety of applications. In hydrophone devices piezoelectric materials detect low frequency acoustic waves passively. Kydrophones are frequently made from single phase PZT. Large hydrostatic piezo electric charge and voltage coefficients dh and gh are desired in these devices. Thus, even though the magnitudes of the piezoelectric coefficients dn and dlt of PZT are large, the hydrostatic coefficients dh and ghare small, because the dn and 2d3, coefficients are almost equal and opposite in sign, and also, the dielectric constant of PZT is large.The large difference of the acoustic impedance between PZT and water requires impedance matching layers for underwater hydrophone applications. In order to improve and modify material prog erties for hydrophone devices, several different types of piezoelectric PZT polymer composites have been recently investigated utilizing the concept of phase connectivity. It has been found that the electric flux pattern and the mechanical stress distribution together with the resulting physical and piezoelectric properties depend strongly on the manner in which the individual piezoelectric and polymer phases of the diphasic composites are interconnected. Each phase in a composite may be self connected in zero, one, two, or three dimensions. Thus, a diphasic 2 1 connectivity pattern, for example, has one phase self connected in two dimensional layers, the other in one dimensional chains or fibers.Below are represented some of the composites with different connectivity patterns in which the piezoelectric phase appears first.0 3 composites PZT particles suspended in a polymer matrix 1 3 composites PZT rods aligned in the poling direction held together by a polymer matrix 1 3 0 composites PZT rods aligned in the poling direction held together by a foamed polymer matrix 3 1 and 3 2 composites holes drilled in a prepoledPZT block, then the holes filled or covered by polymer.3 3 composites lost wax method using coral as the starting material, or by a fugitive phase method BURPS process .The dh, g h coefficients and dh gh figure of merit of the diphasic composites are significantly improved over single phase PZT due to decoupling of the dn and d31 coefficients andlor the reduction of the dielectric constants. The piezoelectric ceramic polymer composites of 1 3, 1 39. 3 1, 3 2, and 3 3 connectivities are often expensive and cumbersome to fabricate. ThePZT polymer 0 3 composite is relatively easy and inexpensive to make. However, in 0 3 composites, early studies showed that the PZT particules should have a diameter greater than the thickness of the composites to obtain sufficient poling. For smaller particles of Pit, very large poling field strengths 100150 kV cm are needed to achieve sufficient poling. For a 0 3 composite consisting of spherical grains embedded in a matrix, the electric field E,, acting on an isolated spherical grain is give byEMI1.1 In this equation, K, and K2 are the dielectric constants of the spherical piezoelectric grains and the polymer matrix, respectively, and Etc is an externally applied electric field. For a 0 3 composite of PZT powder and polymer, K, is about 2000 andK2 about 5. In such a composite with an external field of 100 kV cm, the electric field acting on the piezoelectric particles is only about 1 kV cm which is insufficient to pole the composite. According to the above equation E, E only when the dielectric constant of the piezoelectric phase approaches that of the polymer phase.Most of the ferroelectric materials have very high dielectric constants and hence the above condition cannot be satisfied. One way to meet this poling difficulty is to raise the polymer matrix conductivity. In JapaneseKokai No. 56 93383, July 28, 1981, a piezoelectric material is prepared by dispersing fine piezoelectric ceramic powder in a high permittivity polymer matrix consisting of an insulating polymer and an organic substance with high conductivity.SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION in accordance with the present invention, a piezoelectric polymer composite of 0 3 connectivity having improved poling field strength is fabricated by increasing the electrical conductivity of the poly mer phase. In a particular method, a third phase of metallic or semiconductive material in particulate form is added to the polymer matrix to enhance the polymer matrix conductivity. As a result, the conductivity of the polymer matrix will increase to about 10 ó ohm cm and that of the composite as a whole will increase to 10 1 ohm 1 cm l. Increasing the conductivity of the polymer phase in the PZT polymer 0 3 composite greatly improves the poling conditions and consequently, inexpensive and useful 0 3 piezoceramic polymer composites can be fabricated.BRIEF DESCRIPTIONS OF THE DRAWING Figure 1 is a flow chart of the process steps for forming the 0 3 piezoelectric polymer composites of the Example. Figure 2 is a graph of d33 as a function of the poling field found during testing of piezoelectric composite samples.DESCRIPTION OF THE PREFERRED EMBODIMENT In accordance with the present invention, a piezoelectric ceramic polymer composite of 0 3 connectivity is prepared by blending a piezoelectric ceramic powder and a particulate additive having conductive or semiconductive properties as a third phase into an insulating polymer matrix. The conductive or semiconductive phase may comprise an inorganic or organic substance in particulate form. Among the various particulate additives which can be utilized include carbon, germanium, silicon, and metals such as silver, etc. Organic compounds may include tetracyanoquinodimethane TONY . Generally, the conductive or semiconductive third phase should have a conductivity of at least10 3 ohm 1 cm 1. Any poiymeric material with high insulating property able to be blended with the piezoelectric ceramic powder and third phase conductive or semiconductive additive and capable of forming thin films can be used but the selection should be carefully considered according to the performance demanded. It is preferable for the polymer matrix to have as low as dielectric loss as possible. The examples of such polymers include polystyrene, polysulfone, polycarbonate, polypropylene, polyethylene, polyethylene terephthalate, polyphenylene oxide, polyurethane elastomer, polyvinyl carbazole and polyvinylidene fluoride. The mixtures of the aforementioned polymers and the copolymers of the aforementioned polymers could also be used. On the other hand if a low dielectric loss is not required any polymer could be used and the selection can be based on the ability to form thin films, heat resistance, mechanical properties, electrical properties and strength. For example, polyacrylate esters, polymethacrylate esters, polyvinyl chloride, polyvinylidenes, polymers of acrylonitrile, polymers of methacrylonitrile, polyvinyl acetate, polyvinyl pyrrolidone, cellulose type polymers such as ethyl cellulose, soluble polymers of polyimide, epoxy resins, curable polymers such as unsaturated polyester resins can be used. The mixtures of the aforementioned polymers and the copolymers of aforementioned polymers could be used. It is preferable to blend less than 4 vol. of the conducting or semiconducting third phase particulate into the polymer matrix. The amount of the third phase additive will depend upon the conductivity thereof. Thus, depending upon the conductivity of the third phase additive, about 1.5 to about 4 vol. will be incorporated into the polymer matrix. The piezoelectric phase can be selected from among any of the piezoelectric ceramic powders including quartz, barium titanate, lead titanate, lead niobate, PZT, etc. The amount of fine piezoelectric ceramic powder used should be preferably selected so that the level of piezoelectric ceramic content is about 60 to about 70 vol. of the piezoelectric ceramic polymer composite. Although the piezoelectric ratio of the 0 3 composite obtained increases with the increasing amount of piezoelectric powder used, the mechanical properties and operation properties are adversely affected by the increasing level of piezoelectric ceramic phase.Thus, it is preferable to select the amount of piezoelectric ceramic powder to the range specified above. Table 1 illustrates piezoelectric materials which are useful in this invention. EMI3.1 tb SEP TABLE SEP 1 tb 1 SEP Single SEP component SEP BaTlO3, SEP PbTiO3, SEP PbNb206, tb SEP Na1Bij TiO3, SEP Limbo3, SEP LiTaO3 tb SEP 22 tb 2 SEP Two SEP component SEP PbTiO3 PbZrO3, tb SEP PbTiO3 Pb ZnçNb 03f tb SEP PbTiO3 Pb Cdg SEP 03, tb SEP PbTiO3 Pb In2lNb2l O3 tb SEP 22 tb SEP KNbO3 NaNbO3, tb SEP Cd2Nb207 NaNbO3, tb SEP PbNb206 BaNb206 tb 3 SEP Three SEP component tb PbTiO3 PbZro3 Pb Mg3lNb3 O3 SEP Pb Co Nb O31 tb SEP 33 tb PbTiO3 PbZrO3 Pb Zn Nb 03, SEP Pb Cd1Nb2 03, tb SEP TT tb PbTiO3 PbZrO3 Pb MnlNb SEP 03, SEP Pb NilNb 03, tb SEP T SEP 7 SEP 33 tb PbTiO3 PbZrO3 Pb Sb1Nb SEP r 03, SEP Pb YNb 03, tb SEP T SEP 7 tb PbTiO3 PbzrO3 Pb Mg1w1 O3, tb PbTiO3 PbZ SEP rO3 Pb SEP Co1W1 SEP SEP 03, SEP Pb CdlWh 03, tb SEP 77 tb PbTiO3 PbzrO3 Pb Mn Te 03, SEP Pb Mn1Sb2 O3, tb PbTiO3 PbZrO3 Pb NilSb 03, SEP Pb FejNb SEP O3, tb SEP 2 tb Others tb PbTiO3 Ba ZnlNb 03 Pb ZnXNb 03, tb KNbO3 NaNbO3 LiNbO3 tb Pbl xLax ZryTi2 l x 4o3 SEP x SEP SEP y SEP SEP 1 tb The piezoelectric ceramic polymer composite of this invention is prepared by the following procedure using the starting materials described above.In particular, the piezoelectric ceramic powder such as PZT is mixed with the particulate conductive or semiconductive third phase. The mixing is done such as by ball milling for about 2 hours. The polymer matrix is then added and mixed with the particulate phases and molded into shape. If the polymer matrix is a thermosetting resin, the molded composite can be cured at elevated tempera tures.EXAMPLE 1 Figure 1 shows the sample preparation procedure used in this Example. Commercial Pit 501 powder was obtained from Ultrasonic Powder Inc.,South Plainfield, N.J., Eccogel 1365 0 an epoxy formulation was obtained from Emerson and Cuming, W.R. Grace and Co., Canton, MA., and finegrained carbon were used as piezoelectric filler, matrix, and additive to make 0 3 piezoelectric ce ramic composites. The PZT was mixed with the carbon powder and bail milled for 2 hours. The polymer matrix was then added to the particulate phase and mixed therein. The PZT compound comprised 68.5 vol. of the PZT polymer composite. Samples were cut 1 cm x 1 cm x 0.1 cm. in dimension and an air dry silver electrode was painted on both surfaces for poling and other transducer properties investigations. The hydrostatic voltage coefficient gh is about 6 to 10 times larger than that of single phase PZT.Similarly, the figure of Merit d hsh is 1 E to 8 times larger than that of single phase PZT. The results are summarized in Table 2. TABLE 2 Comparison of Dielectric and Piezoelectric Properties of PZT Polymer Composites with and without Conductive Third Phase Vol. of 33 h h h h Third Phase tan K33 X10 12 C N X10 3 Vm N X10 12 C N X10 15 mê N Solid PZT 0.015 1800 450 2.5 40 100PZT PolymerComposite 0 0.03 100 45 9 10 90PZT Carbon EccogelComposite 1.5 0.08 120 50 30 30 900PZT Ge EccogelComposite 4 0.08 90 44 17 22 375PZT Si EccogelComposite 1.5 0.075 85 45 18 23 415Polymer Eccogel 1365 0Volume Percent of Polymer is 30 EXAMPLE 2 Figure 2 shows d33 as a function of poling conditions. By optimizing d33 coefficient, the poling behavior of carbon added Pit Eccogel 0 3 composites were studied. Pit Eccogel 0 3 samples with 1.5 volume percent carbon additive can be poled sufficiently in a 1200C oil bath, at 35 kV cm, for about 5 minutes. This result is much improved poling behavior compared to 0 3 Pit Eccogel composite without carbon additive. The optimized dn values varied between 48 to 50 x 1 0120 N as shown in Figure 2.