# NODULAR COPOLYMERS FORMED OF ALPHA OLEFIN COPOLYMERS COUPLED BY NON CONJUGATED DIENES

## Claims
1. Copolymer, bei dem wenigstens M

## Description
The present invention relates to novel copolymers of alpha olefins and non conjugated dienes. More specifically, it relates to novel copolymers of ethylene, other alpha olefins, and non conjugated diene comprised of copolymer chains having at least one chain segment containing ethylene and the alpha olefin and a second chain segment containing ethylene, alpha olefin, and non conjugated diene. In particular, it relates to a process for making these copolymers, and to a process for coupling the aforedescribed polymers to form nodular branched polymers having a high bulk viscosity, and to their use in lube oil and elastomer applications. For convenience, certain terms that are repeated throughout the present specification are defined below Ethylene propylene copolymers, particularly elastomers, are important commercial products. Two basic types of ethylene propylene copolymers are commercially available. Ethylene propylene copolymers EPM are saturated compounds requiring vulcanization with free radical generators such as organic peroxides. Ethylene propylene terpolymers EPDM contain a small amount of non conjugated diolefin, such as dicyclopentadiene 1,4 hexadiene or ethylidene norbornene, which provides sufficient unsaturation to permit vulcanization with sulfur. Such polymers that include at least two monomers, i.e., EPM and EPDM, will hereinafter be collectively referred to as copolymers. These copolymers have outstanding resistance to weathering, good heat aging properties and the ability to be compounded with large quantities of fillers and plasticizers, resulting in low cost compounds which are particularly useful in automotive and industrial mechanical goods applications. Typical automotive uses are in tire sidewalls, inner tubes, radiator and heater hose, vacuum tubing, weather stripping and sponge doorseals, and as Viscosity Index V.I. improvers for lubricating oil compositions. Typical mechanical goods uses are for appliance, industrial and garden hoses, both molded and extruded sponge parts, gaskets and seals, and conveyor belt covers. These copolymers also find use in adhesives, appliance parts, as in hoses and gaskets, wire and cable, and plastics blending. As can be seen from the above, based on their respective properties, EPM and EPDM find many, varied uses. It is known that the properties of such copolymers which make them useful in a particular application are, in turn, determined by their composition and structure. For example, the ultimate properties of an EPM or EPDM copolymer are determined by such factors as composition, compositional distribution, sequence distribution, molecular weight, and molecular weight distribution MWD . The efficiency of peroxide curing depends on composition. As the ethylene level increases, it can be shown that the chemical crosslinks per peroxide molecule increase. Ethylene content also influences the rheological and processing properties, because crystallinity, which acts as physical crosslinks, can be introduced. The crystallinity present at very high ethylene contents may hinder processibility, and may make the cured product too hard at temperatures below the crystalline melting point to be useful as a rubber. Milling behavior of EPM or EPDM copolymers varies radically with MWD. Narrow MWD copolymers crumble on a mill, whereas broad MWD materials will band under conditions encountered in normal processing operations. Thus, there exists a continuing need for discovering polymers with unique properties and compositions. This is easily exemplified with reference to the area of V.I. improvers for lubricating oils. A motor oil should not be too viscous at low temperatures so as to avoid serious frictional losses, facilitate cold starting, and provide free oil circulation right from engine startup. On the other hand, it should not be too thin at working temperatures so as to avoid excessive engine wear and excessive oil consumption. It is most desirable to employ a lubricating oil which experiences the least viscosity change with changes in temperature. The ability of a lubricating oil to accommodate increases in temperature with a minimum decrease in viscosity is indicated by its Viscosity Index V.I. . The greater this ability, the higher the V.I. Polymeric additives have been extensively used in lubricating oil compositions to impart desirable viscosity temperature characteristics to the compositions. For example, lubricating oil compositions which use EPM or EPDM copolymers or, more generally, ethylene C₃ C₁₈ alpha olefin copolymers, as V.I. improvers are well known. These additives are designed to permit formulation of lubricating oils so that changes in viscosity occurring with variations in temperature are kept as small as possible. Lubricating oils containing such polymeric additives can better maintain their viscosity at higher temperatures, while at the same time maintaining desirable low viscosity fluidity at engine starting temperatures. Two important properties although not the only required properties as is known of these additives relate to low temperature performance and shear stability. Low temperature performance relates to maintaining low viscosity at very low temperatures, while shear stability relates to the resistance of the polymeric additives to being broken down into smaller chains. Ideally, preferred V.I. improvers are polymers which have good shear stability. These polymers generally have low thickening efficiency and low molecular weight. However, generally, low molecular weight polymers have low bulk viscosity and exhibit cold flow. They are difficult to handle in the conventional rubber processing plant. Representative prior art dealing with tubular reactors to make copolymers is as follows In Polymerization of ethylene and propylene to amorphous copolymers with catalysts of vanadium oxychloride and alkyl aluminium halides E. Junghanns, A. Gumboldt and G. Bier Makromol. Chem., v. Laminar Flow Polymerization of EPDM Polymer J.F. Wehner ACS Symposium Series 65 1978 pp 140 152 discloses the results of computer simulation work undertaken to determine the effect of tubular reactor solution polymerization with Ziegler catalysts on the molecular weight distribution of the polymer product. The specific polymer simulated was an elastomeric terpolymer of ethylenepropylene 1,4 hexadiene. On page 149, it is stated that since the monomers have different reactivities, a polymer of varying composition is obtained as the monomers are depleted. However, whether the composition varies inter or intramolecularly is not distinguished. In Table III on page 148, various polymers having U.S. 3,681,306 to Wehner is drawn to a process for producing ethylene higher alpha olefin copolymers having good processibility, by polymerization in at least two consecutive reaction stages. According to this reference, this two stage process provides a simple polymerization process that permits tailor making ethylene alpha olefin copolymers having predetermined properties, particularly those contributing to processibility in commercial applications such as cold flow, high green strength and millability. According to this reference, the inventive process is particularly adapted for producing elastomeric copolymers, such as ethylene propylene 5 ethylidene 2 norbornene, using any of the coordination catalysts useful for making EPDM. The preferred process uses one tubular reactor followed by one pot reactor. However, it is also disclosed that one tubular reactor could be used, but operated at different reaction conditions to simulate two stages. As is seen from column 2, lines 14 20, the inventive process makes polymer of broader MWD than those made in a single stage reactor. Although intermediate polymer from the first pipeline reactor is disclosed as having a ratio of U.S. 3,625,658 to Closon discloses a closed circuit tubular reactor apparatus with high recirculation rates of the reactants, which can be used to make elastomers of ethylene and propylene. With particular reference to Figure 1, a hinged support 10 for vertical leg 1 of the reactor allows for horizontal expansion of the bottom leg thereof and prevent harmful deformations due to thermal expansions, particularly those experienced during reactor clean out. U.S. 4,065,520 to Bailey et al. discloses the use of a batch reactor to make ethylene copolymer, including elastomers, having broad compositional distributions. Several feed tanks for the reactor are arranged in series, with the feed to each being varied to make the polymer. The products made have crystalline to semi crystalline to amorphous regions and gradient changes in between. The catalyst system can use vanadium compounds alone or in combination with titanium compound and is exemplified by vanadium oxy trichloride and diisobutyl aluminum chloride. In all examples titanium compounds are used. In several examples hydrogen and diethyl zinc, known transfer agents, are used. The polymer chains produced have a compositionally dispersed first length and uniform second length. Subsequent lengths have various other compositional distributions. In Estimation of Long Chain Branching in Ethylene Propylene Terpolymers from Infinite Dilution Viscoelastic Properties Y. Mitsuda, J. Schrag, and J. Ferry In The Effect of Molecular Weight and Molecular Weight Distribution on the Non Newtonian Behavior of Ethylene Propylene Diene Polymers Representative prior art dealing with ethylene alpha olefin copolymers as lubricating oil additives are as follows U.S. 3,697,429 to Engel et al. discloses a blend of ethylene propylene copolymers having different ethylene contents, i.e., a first copolymer of 40 83 wt. ethylene and U.S. 3,522,180 discloses copolymers of ethylene and propylene, having a number average molecular weight of 10,000 to 40,000 and a propylene content of 20 to 70 mole percent, as V.I. improvers in lube oils. The preferred U.S. 3,691,078 to Johnston et al. discloses the use of ethylene propylene copolymers containing 25 55 wt. ethylene, which have a pendent index of 18 33 and an average pendent size not exceeding 20 carbon atoms, as lube oil additives. The U.S. 3,551,336 to Jacobson et al. discloses the use of ethylene copolymers of 60 80 mole ethylene, having no more than 1.3 wt. of a polymer fraction which is insoluble in normal decane at 55 C, as oil additives. Minimization of this decane insoluble fraction in the polymer reduces the tendency of the polymer to form haze in the oil, which haze is evidence of low temperature instability probably caused by adverse interaction with pour depressant additives. The In the case of viscosity index improvers, Presumably, superior properties are achieved because use of a diene with two active double bonds results in long chain branching, with a concomitant increase in bulk viscosity of the polymer, but without any significant increase in intrinsic viscosity or thickening efficiency. Increased bulk viscosity facilitates the manufacture and storage of the polymer. The catalyst used for polymerization in a Ziegler type catalyst. Both double bonds of the 2,5 norbornadiene are polymerizable by the Ziegler catalyst. The other diene, 1,4 hexadiene, however, has only one Ziegler catalyst polymerizable double bond. Hence, the polymers include a minor amount of unsaturation. According to one aspect of the present invention there is provided a copolymer having at least one of For purposes of this discussion, the term coupling agent is taken to include non conjugated dienes which are couplable by means which do not cross link any other non conjugated dienes which may be present at locations in the chains where cross linking would be considered undesirable. In one embodiment the first segment consists essentially only of ethylene and alpha olefin. The alpha olefin is most preferably propylene. The first segment may further further comprise a diene. The second segment comprises at least 5 and less than 50 by weight of the copolymer chain. The segments preferably differ in composition by at least 5 weight percent ethylene. The coupling agent may be a Ziegler copolymerizable diene, and may be selected from the group consisting of norbornadiene, vinyl norbornene, or butenyl norbornene. Alternatively, the coupling agent may be a cross linkable diene, and may be selected from the group consisting of ENB, 1,4 hexadiene or dicyclopentadiene. For purposes of the invention coupling agents may be taken more broadly than merely non conjugated dienes and extend to include other techniques which can result in formation of the nodule at the desired chain locations. Thus, instead of non conjugated dienes functional olefins such as olefinic chlorosilanes which are cross linked by exposure to moisture may be considered coupling agents. The copolymer preferably has The first segments preferably have The copolymer preferably has a weight average molecular weight of about 2,000 12,000,000, more preferably a weight average molecular weight of at least 10,000, and most preferably 20,000. The inter CD is preferably such that 95 weight percent of the copolymer chains have an ethylene composition that differs from the average weight percent ethylene composition by 15 or less, most preferably 10 or less. The intra CD is such that at least two portions of each chain, each portion comprising at least 5 weight percent of the chain, differ in composition from one another by at least 5 weight percent ethylene, preferably at least 10 weight percent ethylene, and most preferably at least 20 weight percent ethylene. The copolymer of the invention may be combined with additional polymer chains not having the properties of the invention where it may be desired to blend the properties of the two substances for whatever reason, although it is preferred that the copolymer of the invention constitutes greater than 50 by weight of the total of the copolymer and additional polymer chains. A second aspect of the invention is directed to a nodular ethylene alpha olefin copolymer product comprising a copolymer as hereinbefore defined cross linked through the coupling agents of the second segments and comprising a nodule region of substantial cross linking of copolymer chain second segments, with substantially uncross linked copolymer chain first segments extending therefrom. The nodule region preferably contains less than 50 by weight of the copolymer. The chain first segments, being in the form of one contiguous segment or a plurality of discontinuous segments, comprise a copolymer of ethylene and an alpha olefin and the chain second segments comprise a copolymer of ethylene, an alpha olefin and a coupling agent. The second segments constitute less than 50 percent by weight of each copolymer chain formed by the first and second segments, with the second segments being in the form of one contiguous segment or a plurality of discontinuous segments. The various chain segments, as well as the copolymers themselves, most preferably exhibit the qualities noted above. Although strictly speaking once the various copolymers become cross linked to form the nodules of the invention they lose their identity, for purposes of simplicity the various qualities of the copolymer and segments are referenced as if the copolymers and segments maintened their identity after cross linking. As with the copolymers themselves, the nodular copolymer itself may further comprise additional polymer chains, in which case the copolymer chains of the invention constitute greater than 50 by weight of the total of the polymer and copolymer chains in the nodule. The invention is further directed to a process of forming a nodular ethylene alpha olefin copolymer as defined hereinbefore which comprises reacting a copolymer as defined hereinbefore to cross link same through the coupling agents of the second segments, thereby forming said nodular copolymer. According to the invention the second segments are cross linked to form the inventive nodules. Again, when forming the nodular product according to the invention, the product and constituent chains and segments have the various qualities and characteristics recited above, and need not be repeated. The inventive process extends to incorporating additional polymer chains constituting less than 50 by weight of the nodular copolymer. The cross linking of the coupling agent may, in one embodiment be achieved by means of a catalyst which comprises hydrocarbon soluble vanadium compound and or organo aluminum compound, at least one of the vanadium compound and organo aluminum compounds containing a valence bonded halogen. The process comprises, according to one preferred embodiment reacting the hydrocarbon soluble vanadium and organo aluminum compounds to form essentially one active catalyst species. The process may be performed by reacting Most preferably, the catalyst comprises VCl₄ and Al₂R₃Cl₃. The mole ratio of aluminum to vanadium in the catalyst is preferably about 4 to 15. Alternatively, the cross linking of the coupling agent may be catalyzed with cationic catalyst. The cationic catalyst may be a Lewis acid, and may be selected from the group consisting of AlCl₃, BF₃, SnCl₄, SbCl₅, and mixtures thereof. According to yet another embodiment the cross linking agent may be a free radical catalyst. The free radical catalyst may be a peroxide selected from the group consisting of dicumyl peroxide, di tertiary butyl peroxide, t butylperbenzoate, 1,1 di t butylperoxy 3,3,5 trimethyl cyclohexane, and mixtures thereof. Other free radical catalysts include azo bis isobutyrl nitrile, azo dicarboxylate, and mixtures thereof. In yet another embodiment the cross linking of the coupling agent is catalyzed with an olefin coupling agent. The olefin coupling agent may be selected from the group consisting of sulfur dichloride, disulfenyl halides, borane, dithiolalkanes, other sulfur and accelerated sulfur curating and mixtures thereof. Yet another aspect of the invention provides a process for producing a copolymer as hereinbefore defined, which process comprises polymerizing a reaction mixture of ethylene and alpha olefin until the weight of said ethylene alpha olefin copolymer has reached at least 50 and not more than 95 of the anticipated polymer weight at completion of polymerization so as to form said first segment, and then incorporating said coupling agent to form said second segment, said ethylene, alpha olefin, and coupling agent reaction mixture being polymerised with essentially one active catalyst species in at least one mix free reactor in such a manner and under conditions sufficient to initiate propagation of substantially all the copolymer chains simultaneously, the copolymer chains being dispersed within the reaction mixture, and the reaction mixture being essentially transfer agent free. In one particularly preferred embodiment the polymerization is performed in a tubular reactor. The final temperature of the reaction mixture is preferably maintained at a temperature of less than about 150 degrees C. Additional reaction mixture comprising at least one of ethylene, other alpha olefin monomer, and a non conjugated diene may be injected at at least one feed site along the reactor. The coupling agent is preferably incorporated in an amount of about 0.10 to about 50 mole percent based upon the total moles of monomer in the second chain segment. When using catalyst of the type discussed above, which is formed by reaction, the components are preferably premixed for about 0.1 5000 seconds, most preferably 1 50 seconds. The reaction mixture forms a plurality of the copolymer chains, and the process may further comprise cross linking the second segments of the plurality of the copolymer chains to form a nodule. The invention is further directed to a lubricating oil composition comprising an effective amount of a nodular copolymer additive according to the invention, or made according to the invention. In such an oil composition the nodular copolymer additive is preferably present in an amount of about 0.1 to about 15.0 by weight of the total composition. The lubricating oil itself may be hydrocarbon mineral oil based, or may comprise up to 25 weight percent synthetic lubricating oil. Likewise, the invention is directed to a lubricating oil concentrate comprising a nodular copolymer additive according to the invention, or made according to the invention. The nodular copolymer is preferably present in an amount of about 5 50 by weight of the total composition. In one aspect the present invention is drawn to a novel nodular branched copolymer of ethylene, at least one other alpha olefin monomer, and a non conjugated diene copolymer. In particular, the individual polymer chains, prior to coupling, have at least one segment that contains only ethylene and the alpha olefin, and a second segment that contains ethylene, the alpha olefin, and the non conjugated diene. The MWD of the copolymer prior to forming the nodular branched copolymer is very narrow. For example, an indication of a narrow MWD in accordance with the present invention is that the ratio of weight to number average molecular weight To obtain the intramolecular compositional heterogeneity and narrow MWD, the copolymers in accordance with the present invention are preferably made in a tubular reactor. Nodular branching is beneficial in two ways. First it changes the bulk pure polymer viscosity molecular weight, relationship. In general, above a certain molecular weight at high polymer concentration the viscosity will be higher than for a linear polymer of the same molecular weight or thickening efficiency. This is discussed in W.W. GRAESSLEY, Accounts of Chemical Research, Vol. 10, p. 332, 1977. Furthermore, nodular branching can increase the mechanical shear stability at a given thickening efficiency as compared to linear polymers. Through either of these two effects it is possible to manufacture more shear stable polymers. To form the nodular copolymers of this invention, the aforedescribed polymer chains are coupled by reacting the residual double bonds, in the non conjugated diene in one polymer chain, with similar double bonds in other chains. The coupling reaction can be catalyzed by either Ziegler, cationic, free radical catalysis, or olefin coupling agents. These polymers exhibit enhanced bulk viscosity and reduced cold flow compared to other polymers of equivalent lubricating oil thickening efficiency T.E. . It has been discovered that to produce such copolymers requires the use of numerous heretofore undisclosed method steps conducted within heretofore undisclosed preferred ranges. Accordingly, the present invention is also drawn to a method for making the novel copolymers of the present invention. Copolymers in accordance with the present invention have been found to have improved properties in lubricating oil, especially when coupled to form the nodular polymers of this invention. Accordingly, the present invention is also drawn to a novel oil additive composition which comprises basestock mineral oil of lubricating viscosity containing an effective amount as a Viscosity Index improver, of copolymer in accordance with the present invention. The accompanying drawings depict, for illustration purposes only, processes embodied by the present invention, wherein As already noted above, the present invention is drawn to novel copolymers of ethylene, at least one other alpha olefin monomer, and a non conjugated diene, the copolymers having a MWD prior to coupling characterized by at least one of a Copolymers in accordance with the present invention are preferably made in a tubular reactor. When polymerizing in a tube, the ethylene and propylene are fed to the reactor inlet along with a suitable Ziegler catalyst. The catalyst is preferably chosen so that it produces essentially one active catalyst species. Also, chain transfer reactions during the polymerization must be minimized. It is well known that ethylene is much more readily polymerized than propylene. Consequently, the concentration of monomer changes along the tube in favor of propylene as the ethylene is depleted. The result is copolymer chains which are higher in ethylene content in the chain segments grown near the reactor feed inlet and higher in propylene in the segments grown near the reactor outlet. The resulting chain is intramolecularly heterogeneous. The extent of heterogeneity in ethylene propylene compositions can be moderated somewhat by feeding additional ethylene at points along the reactor to keep the ethylene propylene monomer ratio at a more constant value. It is an object of this invention to produce chains with a minimum of interchain compositional variation in order to assure uniform coupling. This is accomplished by utilizing a Ziegler catalyst that Forms essentially one active catalyst species, minimizing chain transfer reactions, initiating propagation RF essentially all chains simultaneously, and conducting the polymerization such that the major portion of the catalyst remains active for the entire length of time that polymerization is occurring in the reactor. The tubular reactor is also operated at conditions such that the copolymer chains have a narrow MWD characterized by at least one of the ratios of In one embodiment polymerization of the ethylene and propylene is initiated at the reactor inlet and continued until a first polymer segment forms comprising at least 50 of the weight of the total polymer to be produced. Additional monomer feed is then added to the tube consisting of non conjugated diene, either alone or in combination with the other monomer and or solvent. At the point of non conjugated diene addition, at least 50 of the ultimate anticipated mass of the polymer should have been formed. A second chain segment is then formed with a non conjugated diene content of at least 0.1 mole and with a Several techniques are available for producing the nodular branched polymer of this invention. If the non conjugated diene has both double bonds polymerizable by the Ziegler catalyst, branching will occur simultaneously with polymerization in the reactor. In this case the polymer exiting the reactor will be the final product. If coupling is to be catalyzed cationically, the cationic catalyst can either be added to the tubular reactor, to carry out the coupling in the reactor, or to the polymer product exiting the reactor so that the coupling can be carried out in a separate process step. Free radical coupling catalysts are normally Ziegler catalyst poisons and will not perform at polymerization conditions. In this case, the coupling catalyst must be added, and the coupling performed, subsequent to the polymerization. Olefin cross linking agents may also be used in a similar manner. Copolymer in accordance with one embodiment of the present invention is preferably made in a tubular reactor. When the process takes place in a tubular reactor, it is known that, at the beginning of the tubular reactor, ethylene, due to its high reactivity, will be preferentially polymerized. However, the concentration of monomers changes along the tube in favor of propylene as the ethylene is depleted. The result is copolymer chains which are higher in ethylene concentration in the chain segments grown near the reactor inlet as defined at the point at which the polymerization reaction commences , and higher in propylene concentration in the chain serpents formed near the reactor outlet. An illustrative copolymer chain of ethylene proplyene is schematically presented below, with E representing ethylene constituents, and P representing propylene constituents in the chain As can be seen from this illustrative schematic chain, the far left hand segment 1 thereof represents that portion of the chain formed at the reactor inlet where the reaction mixture is proportionately richer in the more reactive constituent ethylene. This segment comprises four ethylene molecules and one propylene molecule. However, as subsequent segments are formed from left to right, with the more reactive ethylene being depleted and the reaction mixture proportionately increasing in propylene concentration, the subsequent chain segments become more concentrated in propylene. The resulting chain is intra molecularly heterogeneous. In the event that more than two monomers are used, e.g., in the production of EPDM using a diene termonomer, for purposes of describing the present invention all properties related to homogeneity and heterogeneity will refer to the relative ratio of ethylene to the other monomers in the chain. The property, of the copolymer discussed herein, related to intramolecular compositional dispersity compositional variation within a chain shall be referred to as Intra CD. For copolymer chains in accordance with the present invention, composition can vary between chains as well as along the length of the chain. In one embodiment, an object of this invention is to minimize the amount of interchain variation. The Inter CD can be characterized by the difference in composition between some fraction of the copolymer and the average composition, as well as by the total difference in composition between the copolymer fractions containing the highest and lowest quantity of ethylene. Techniques for measuring the breadth of the Inter CD are known, as illustrated by Junghanns et al., wherein a p xylene dimethylformamide solvent non solvent was used to fractionate copolymer into fractions of differing intermolecular composition. Other solvent non solvent systems can be used, such as hexane 2 propanol, as will be discussed in more detail below. The Inter CD of copolymer in accordance with one embodiment of the present invention is such that 95 wt. of the copolymer chains have an ethylene composition that differs from the average weight percent ethylene composition by 15 wt. or less. The preferred Inter CD is about 13 or less, with the most preferred being about 10 or less. In comparison, Junghanns et al. found tht their tubular reactor copolymer had an Inter CD of greater than 15 weight . Broadly, the Intra CD of copolymer in accordance with one embodiment of the present invention is such that at least two portions of an individual intramolecularly heterogeneous chain, each portion comprising at least 5 weight percent of the chain, differ in composition from one another by at least 5 weight percent ethylene. Unless otherwise indicated, this property of Intra CD as referred to herein is based upon at least two 5 weight percent portions of copolymer chain. The Intra CD of copolymer in accordance with the present invention can be such that at least two portions of copolymer chain differ by at least 10 weight percent ethylene. Differences of at least 20 weight percent ethylene, as well as of at least 40 weight percent ethylene, are also considered to be in accordance with the present invention. The experimental procedure for determining Intra CD is as follows. First the Inter CD is established as described below, then the polymer chain is broken into fragments along its contour and the Inter CD of the fragments is determined. The difference in the two results is due to Intra CD, as can be seen in the illustrative example below. Consider a heterogeneous sample polymer containing. 30 monomer units. It consists of 3 molecules designated A, B, C. A EEEEPEEEPEEEPPEEPPEPPPEPPPPPPP B EEEEEPEEEPEEEPPEEEPPPEPPPEEPPP C EEPEEEPEEEPEEEPEEEPPEEPPPEEPPP Molecule A is 36.8 wt. ethylene, B is 46.6 , and C is 50 ethylene. The average ethylene content for the mixture is 44.3 . For this sample the Inter CD is such that the highest ethylene polymer contains 5.7 more ethylene than the average, while the lowest ethylene content polymer contains 7.5 less ethylene then the average. Or, in other words, 100 weight of the polymer is within 5,7 and 7.5 ethylene about an average of 44.3 . Accordingly, the Inter CD is 7.5 when the given weight of the polymer is 100 . The distribution may be represented graphically as by curve 1 in Figure 3. If the chains are broken into fragments, there will be a new Inter CD. For simplicity, consider first breaking only molecule A into fragments shown by the slashes as follows EEEEP EEEPE EEPPE EPPEP PPEPP PPPPP Portions of 72.7 , 72.7 , 50 , 30.8 , 14.3 and 0 ethylene are obtained. If molecules B and C are similarly broken and the weight fraction of similar composition are grouped, the new Inter CD shown by curve 2 in Figure 3 is obtained. The difference between the two curves in the figure is due to Intra CD. Consideration of such data, especially near the end point ranges, demonstrates that for this sample at least 5 of the chain contour represented by the cumulative weight range a differs in composition from another section by at least 15 ethylene shown as b , the difference between the two curves. The difference in composition represented by b cannot be intermolecular. If it were, the separation process for the original polymer would have revealed the higher ethylene contents seen only for the degraded chain. The compositional differences shown by b and d in the figure between original and fragmented chains give minimum values for Intra CD. The Intra CD must be at least that great, for chain sections have been isolated which are the given difference in composition b or d from the highest or lowest composition polymer isolated from the original. We know in this example that the original polymer represented at b had sections of 72.7 ethylene and 0 ethylene in the same chain. It is highly likely that, due to the inefficiency of the fractionation process, any real polymer with Intra CD examined will have sections of lower or higher ethylene connected along its contour than that shown by the end points of the fractionation of the original polymer. Thus, this procedure determines a lower boundary for Intra CD. To enhance the detection, the original whole polymer can be fractionated e.g., separate molecule A from molecule B from molecule C in the hypothetical example with these fractions refractionated until they show no or less Inter CD. Subsequent fragmentation of this intermolecularly homogeneous fraction now reveals the total Intra CD. In principle, for the example, if molecule A were isolated, fragmented, fractionated and analyzed, the Intra CD for the chain sections would be 72.7 0 72.7 rather than 72.7 50 22.7 seen by fractionating the whole mixture of molecules A, B, and C. In order to determine the fraction of a polymer which is intramolecularly heterogeneous in a mixture of polymer combined from several sources, the mixture must be separated into fractions which show no further heterogeneity upon subsequent fractionation. These fractions are subsequently fractured and fractionated to reveal polymer heterogeneity. The fragments into which the original polymer is broken should be large enough to avoid end effects and to give a reasonable opportunity for the normal statistical distribution of segments to form over a given monomer conversion range in the polymerization. Intervals of The best available technique for determination of compositional dispersity for non polar polymers is solvent non solvent fractionation which is based on the thermodynamics of phase separation. This technique is described in Polymer Fractionation , M. Cantow editor, Academic 1967, p. 341 ff and in H. Inagaki, T. Tanaku, For non crystalline copolymers of ethylene and propylene, molecular weight governs insolubility more than does composition in a solvent non solvent solution. High molecular weight polymer is less soluble in a given solvent mix. Also, there is a systematic correlation of molecular weight with ethylene content for the polymers described herein. Since ethylene polymerizes much more rapidly than propylene, high ethylene polymer also tends to be high in molecular weight. Additionally, chains rich in ethylene tend to be less soluble in hydrocarbon polar non solvent mixture than propylene rich chains. Thus the high molecular weight, high ethylene chains are easily separated on the basis of thermodynamics. A fractionation procedure is as follows Unfragmented polymer is dissolved in n hexane at 23 C to form To demonstrate the breadth of the distribution, the data are plotted as ethylene versus the cumulative weight of polymer as defined by the sum of half the weight of the fraction of that composition plus the total weight of the previously collected fractions. Another portion of the original polymer is broken into fragments. A suitable method for doing this is by thermal degradation according to the following procedure In a sealed container in a nitrogen purged oven, a 2mm thick layer of the polymer is heated for 60 minutes at 330 C. This should be adequate to reduce a 10⁵ molecular weight polymer to fragments of Ethylene content is measured by ASTM D3900 for ethylene propylene copolymers between 35 and 85 wt. ethylene. Above 85 ASTM D2238 can be used to obtain methyl group concentrations which are related to percent ethylene in an unambiguous manner for ethylene propylene copolymers. When comonomers other than propylene are employed, no ASTM tests covering a wide range of ethylene contents are available however, proton and carbon 13 nuclear magnetic resonance can be employed to determine the composition of such polymers. These are absolute techniques requiring no calibration when operated such that all nuclei contribute equally to the spectra. For ranges not covered by the ASTM tests for ethylene propylene copolymers, these nuclear magnetic resonance methods can also be used. Molecular weight and molecular weight distribution are measured using the waters 150 gel permeation chromtograph equipped with a Chromatix KMX 6 on line light scattering photometer. The system is used at 135 C with 1,2,4 trichlorobenzene as mobile phase. Showdex Showa Denko America, Inc. polystyrene gel columns 802, 803, 804 and 805 are used. This technique is discussed in Liquid Chromatography of Polymers and Related Material III , J. Cazes editor, Marcel Dekker, 1981, p. 207 incorporated herein by reference . No corrections for column spreading are employed however, data on generally accepted standards, e.g., National Bureau of Standards Polyethene 1484 and anionically produced hydrogenated polyisoprenes an alternating ethylene propylene copolymer demonstrate that such corrections on As already noted, the first copolymer segment in accordance with the present invention is comprised of ethylene and at least one other alpha olefin. It is believed that such alpha olefins could include those containing 3 to 18 carbon atoms, e.g., propylene, butene 1, pentene 1, etc. Alpha olefins of 3 to 6 carbons are preferred due to economic considerations. The most preferred alpha olefin in accordance with the present invention is propylene. The diene monomers suitable for use in the practice of this invention by which the narrow MWD polymers prepared by this invention are coupled, are of two types 1 non conjugated dienes capable of being Ziegler catalyst polymerized via both double bonds and 2 the non conjugated dienes of the type used to prepare EPDM where the non conjugated diene has only one Ziegler catalyst polymerizable double bond and the other bond is cross linkable by cationic or free radical catalysts or by olefin cross linking agents. Typical of the coupling agents that can be used to produce the second terpolymer segment of the chain are the following non limiting examples Illustrative, non limiting examples of the diene monomers coupled by Ziegler copolymerization catalysts to prepare the nodular polymers of this invention are norbornadiene, vinyl norbornene and butenyl norbornene. Illustrative of the dienes coupled by cationic cross linkable catalysis to prepare the nodular polymers are 1,4 hexadiene, ENB, and dicyclopentadiene. Illustrative of the dienes coupled by free radical catalysts are MNB, VNB, and 1,5 hexadiene. Additionally, olefin cross linking agents may be used. Such agents include sulfur dichloride, disulfenyl halides, borane, dithioalkenes, and mixtures thereof. Of the non conjugated dienes typically used to prepare these copolymers, dienes containing at least one of the double bonds in a strained ring are preferred. The amount of diene mol basis in the diene containing segment of the polymer could be from about 0.1 mole to 50 , with 1 to 30 being preferred. The most preferred range is 2 20 . The average ethylene content of the polymer could be as low as about 10 on a weight basis. The preferred minimum is about 25 . A more preferred minimum is about 30 . The maximum ethylene content could be about 90 on a weight basis. The preferred maximum is about 85 , with the most preferred being about 80 . The ethylene content of the two segments comprising the polymer can be the same or different. If different, the preferred composition range for each segment is the same as stated above for the whole polymer. The molecular weight of copolymer made in accordance with the present invention can vary over a wide range. It is believed that the weight average molecular weight could be as low as about 2,000. The preferred minimum is about 10,000. The most preferred minimum is about 20,000. It is believed that the maximum weight average molecular weight could be as high as about 12,000,000. The preferred maximum is about 1,000,000. The most preferred maximum is about 750,000. The preferred minimum molecular weight for an ethylene propylene copolymer chain segment is 2 10⁴. For the ethylene propylene non conjugated diene chain segment the preferred minimum MW is 2 10³. Another feature of polymer made in accordance with the present invention is that the molecular weight distribution MWD prior to coupling is very narrow, as characterized by at least one of a ratio of Solution polymerizations are preferred for the polymerization process of this invention. Any known solvent for the reaction mixture that is effective for the purpose can be used. For example, suitable solvents would be hydrocarbon solvents such as aliphatic, cycloaliphatic and aromatic hydrocarbon solvents, or halogenated versions of such solvents. The preferred solvents are C₁₂ or lower, straight chain or branched chain, saturated hydrocarbons, C₅ to C₉ saturated alicyclic or aromatic hydrocarbons or C₂ to C₆ halogenated hydrocarbons. Most preferred are C₁₂ or lower, straight chain or branched chain hydrocarbons, particularly hexane. Nonlimiting illustrative examples of solvents are butane, pentane, hexane, heptane, cyclopentane, cyclohexane, cycloheptane, methyl cyclopentane, methyl cyclohexane, isooctane, benzene, toluene, xylene, chloroform, chlorobenzenes, tetrachloroethylene, dichlorethane and trichloroethane. The polymerization process is preferably carried out in a mix free reactor system, which is one in which substantially no mixing occurs between portions of the reaction mixture that contain polymer chains initiating at different times. Suitable reactors are a continuous flow titular or a stirred batch reactor. A tubular reactor is well known and is designed to minimize mixing of the reactants in the direction of flow. As a result, reactant concentration will vary along the reactor length. In contrast, the reaction mixture in a continuous flow stirred tank reactor CFSTR is blended with the incoming feed to produce a solution of essentially uniform composition everywhere in the reactor. Consequently, the growing chains in a portion of the reaction mixture will have a variety of ages and thus a single CFSTR is not suitable for the process of this invention. However, it is well known that 3 or more stirred tanks in series with all of the catalyst fed to the first reactor can approximate the performance of a tubular reactor. Accordingly, such tanks in series are considered to be in accordance with the present invention, and as being the functional equivalent of the tubular reactor. A batch reactor is a suitable vessel, preferably equipped with adequate agitation, to which the catalyst, solvent, and monomer are added at the start of the polymerization. The charge of reactants is then left to polymerize for a time long enough to produce the desired product. For economic reasons, a tubular reactor is preferred to a batch reactor for carrying out the processes of this invention. In addition to the importance of the reactor system to make copolymers in accordance with the present invention, the polymerization should be preferably conducted such that The desired polymer can be obtained if more than one feed or solvent and reactants e.g., at least one of the ethylene, alpha olefin and diene are added either at at least one point along the length of a tubular reactor or during the course of polymerization in a batch reactor. Operating in this fashion may be desirable in certain circumstances to control the polymerization rate or polymer composition. However, it is necessary to add essentially all of the catalyst at the inlet of the tube or at the onset of batch reactor operation to meet the requirement that essentially all polymer chains are initiated simultaneously. Accordingly, processes in accordance with the present invention are most preferably carried out Since the tubular reactor is the preferred reactor system for carrying out processes in accordance with the present invention, the following illustrative descriptions and examples are drawn to that system, but will apply to other reactor systems as will readily occur to the artisan having the benefit of the present disclosure. In practising processes in accordance with the present invention, use is preferably made of at least one tubular reactor. Thus, in its simplest form, such a process would make use of but a single reactor. However, as would readily occur to the artisan having the benefit of the present disclosure, more than one reactor could be used, either in parallel for economic reasons, or in series with multiple monomer feed to vary intramolecular composition. For example, various structures can be prepared by adding additional monomer s during the course of the polymerization. This is exemplified in Figure 4, wherein composition is plotted versus position along the contour length of the chain for multiple monomer additions during polymerization of the ethylene propylene copolymer chain segment. The Intra CD of curve 1 is obtained by feeding all of the monomers at the tubular reactor inlet or at the start of a batch reaction. In comparison, the Intra CD of curve 2 can be made by adding additional ethylene at a point along the tube, or, in a batch reactor, where the chains have reached about half their length. The Intra CD s of curve 3 requires multiple feed additions. The Intra CD of curve 4 can be formed if additional comonomer rather than ethylene is added. This structure permits a whole ethylene composition range to be omitted from the chain. In each case, a third or more alpha olefin comonomers may be added. The composition of the catalyst used to produce alpha olefin copolymers has a profound effect on copolymer product properties such as compositional dispersity and MWD. The catalyst utilized in practising processes in accordance with the present invention should be such as to yield essentially one active catalyst species in the reaction mixture. More specifically, it should yield one primary active catalyst species which provides for substantially all of the polymerization reaction. Additional active catalyst species could be present, provided the copolymer product is in accordance with the present invention, e.g., narrow MWD and Inter CD. It is believed that such additional active catalyst species could provide as much as 35 weight of the total copolymer. Preferably, they should account for about 10 or less of the copolymer. Thus, the essentially one active species should provide for at least 65 of the total copolymer produced, preferably for at least 90 thereof. The extent to which a catalyst species contributes to the polymerization can be readily determined using the below described techniques for characterizing catalyst according to the number of active catalyst species. Techniques for characterizing catalyst according to the number of active catalyst species are within the skill of the art, as evidenced by an article entitled Ethylene Propylene Copolymers. Reactivity Ratios, Evaluation and Significance , C. Cozewith and G. VerStrate, Macromolecules, 4, 482 1971 , which is incorporated herein by reference. It is disclosed by the authors that copolymers made in a continuous flow stirred reactor should have an MWD characterized by Catalyst systems to be used in carrying out processes in accordance with the present invention may be Ziegler copolymerization catalysts, which may typically include The preferred catalyst system in practising processes in accordance with the present invention comprises hydrocarbon soluble vanadium compound in which the vanadium valence is 3 to 5 and organo aluminum compound, with the provision that the catalyst system yields essentially one active catalyst species as described above. At least one of the vanadium compound organo aluminum pair selected must also contain a valence bonded halogen. In terms of formulas, vanadium compounds useful in practising processes in accordance with the present invention could be where n 2 3 and B Lewis base capable of making hydrocarbon soluble complexes with VCl₃, such as tetrahydrofuran, 2 methyl tetrahydrofuran and dimethyl pyridine. In formula 1 above, R preferably represents a C₁ to C₁₀ aliphatic, alicyclic or aromatic hydrocarbon radical such as ethyl Et , phenyl, isopropyl, butyl, propyl, n butyl, i butyl, t butyl, hexyl, cyclohexyl, octyl, naphthyl, etc. Non limiting illustrative examples of formula 1 and 2 compounds are vanadyl trihalides, alkoxy halides and alkoxides such as VOCl₃, VOCEl₂ OBu where Bu butyl, and VO OC₂H₅ ₃. The most preferred vanadium compounds are VCl₄, VOCl₃, and VOCl₂ OR . As already noted, the co catalyst is preferably organo aluminum compound. In terms of chemical formulas, these compounds could be as follows where R and R represent hydrocarbon radicals, the same or different, as described above with respect to the vanadium compound formula. The most preferred organo aluminum compound is an aluminum alkyl sesquichloride such as Al₂Et₃Cl₃ or Al₂ iBu ₃Cl₃. In terms of performance, a catalyst system comprised of VCl₄ and Al₂R₃Cl₃, preferably where R is ethyl, has been shown to be particularly effective. For best catalyst performance, the molar amounts of catalyst components added to the reaction mixture should provide a molar ratio of aluminum vanadium Al V of at least about 2. The preferred minimum Al V is about 4. The maximum Al V is based primarily on the considerations of catalyst expense and the desire to minimize the amount of chain transfer that may be caused by the organo aluminum compound as explained in detail below . Since, as is known, certain organo aluminum compounds act as chain transfer agents, if too much is present in the reaction mixture the Chain transfer agents for the Ziegler catalyzed polymerization of alpha olefins are well known and are illustrated, by way of example, by hydrogen or diethyl zinc for the production of EPM and EPDM. Such agents are very commonly used to control the molecular weight of EPM and EPDM produced in continuous flow stirred reactors. For the essentially single active species Ziegler catalyst systems used in accordance with the present invention, addition of chain transfer agents to a CFSTR reduces the polymer molecular weight but does not affect the molecular weight distribution. On the other hand, chain transfer reactions during tubular reactor polymerization in accordance with the present invention broaden polymer molecular weight distribution. Chains which terminate prior to addition of the non conjugated diene will not be coupled into the nodular structure. Thus, the presence of chain transfer agents in the reaction mixture should be minimized or omitted altogether. Although difficult to generalize for all possible reactions, the amount of chain transfer agent used should be limited to those amounts that provide copolymer product in accordance with the desired limits as regards MWD and compositional dispersity. It is believed that the maximum amount of chain transfer agent present in the reaction mixture could be as high as about 0.2 mol mol of transition metal, e.g., vanadium, again provided that the resulting copolymer product is in accordance with the desired limits as regards MWD and compositional dispersity. Even in the absence of added chain transfer agent, chain transfer reactions can occur because propylene and the organo aluminum co catalyst can also act as chain transfer agents. In general, among the organo aluminum compounds that in combination with the vanadium compound yield just one active species, the organo aluminum compound that gives the highest copolymer molecular weight at acceptable catalyst activity should be chosen. Furthermore, if the Al V ratio has an effect on the molecular weight of copolymer product, that Al V should be used which gives the highest molecular weight also at acceptable catalyst activity. Chain transfer with propylene can best be limited by avoiding excessive temperature during the polymerization as described below. Molecular weight distribution and Inter CD are also broadened by catalyst deactivation during the course of the polymerization which leads to termination of growing chains. It is well known that the vanadium based Ziegler catalysts used in accordance with the present invention are subject to such deactivation reactions which depend to an extent upon the composition of the catalyst. Although the relationship between active catalyst lifetime and catalyst system composition is not known at present, for any given catalyst, deactivation can be reduced by using the shortest residence time and lowest temperature in the reactor that will produce the desired monomer conversions. When catalyst deactivation is occurring, the feed containing diene monomer is preferably added to the reactor at a point during the polymerization where at least 50 of the catalyst is still active. Polymerizations in accordance with the present invention should be conducted in such a manner and under conditions sufficient to initiate propagation of essentially all copolymer chains simultaneously. This can be accomplished by utilizing the process steps and conditions described below. The catalyst components are preferably premixed, that is, reacted to form active catalyst outside of the reactor, to ensure rapid chain initiation. Aging of the premixed catalyst system, that is, the time spent by the catalyst components e.g., vanadium compound and organo aluminum in each other s presence outside of the reactor, should preferably be kept within limits. If not aged for a sufficient period of time, the components will not have reacted with each other sufficiently to yield an adequate quantity of active catalyst species, with the result of non simultaneous chain initiation. Also, it is known that the activity of the catalyst species will decrease with time so that the aging must be kept below a maximum limit. It is believed that the minimum aging period, depending on such factors as concentration of catalyst components, temperature and mixing equipment could be as low as about 0.1 second. The preferred minimum aging period is about 0.5 second, while the most preferred minimum aging period is about 1 second. The vanadium organo aluminum catalyst system can be aged indefinitely. While the maximum aging period could be higher, for the preferred vanadium organo aluminum catalyst system the preferred maximum is at least 500 seconds and possibly about 5000 seconds. A more preferred maximum is about 200 seconds. The most preferred maximum aging period is about 100 seconds. The premixing could be performed at a low temperature such as 40 C or below. It is preferred that the premixing be performed at 25 or below, with 15 or below being most preferred. The temperature of the reaction mixture should also be kept within certain limits. The temperature at the reactor inlet should be high enough to provide complete, rapid chain initiation at the start of the polymerization reaction. The length of time that the reaction mixture spends at high temperature must be short enough to minimize the amount of undesirable chain transfer and catalyst deactivation reactions. Temperature control of the reaction mixture is complicated somewhat by the fact that the polymerization reaction generates large quantities of heat. This problem is, preferably, taken care of by using prechilled feed to the reactor to absorb the heat of polymerization. With this technique, the reactor is operated adiabatically and the temperature is allowed to increase during the course of polymerization. As an alternative to feed prechill, heat can be removed from the reaction mixture, for example, by a heat exchanger surrounding at least a portion of the reactor or by well known autorefrigeration techniques in the case of batch reactors or multiple stirred reactors in series. If adiabatic reactor operation is used, the inlet temperature of the reactor feed could be about from 50 C to 140 C. It is believed that the outlet temperature of the reaction mixture could be as high as about 150 C. The preferred maximum outlet temperature is about 70 C. The most preferred maximum is about 50 C. In the absence of reactor cooling, such as by a cooling jacket, to remove the heat of polymerization, the temperature of the reaction mixture will increase from reactor inlet to outlet by an amount dependant on the heat of polymerization, reaction mixture specific heat, and the weight percent of copolymer in the reaction mixture. For ethylene propylene copolymerization in hexane solvent the temperature rise is about 13 degrees C. per weight percent of copolymer formed. Having the benefit of the above disclosure, it would be well within the skill of the art to determine the operating temperature conditions for making copolymer in accordance with the present invention. For example, assume an adiabatic reactor and an outlet temperature of 35 C are desired for a reaction mixture containing 5 copolymer. The reaction mixture will increase in temperature by about 13 C for each weight percent copolymer or 5 weight percent 10 C wt. 50 C. To maintain an outlet temperature of 35 C, it will thus require a feed that has been prechilled to 35 C. 50 C. 15 C. In the instance that external cooling is used to absorb the heat of polymerization, the feed inlet temperature could be higher with the other temperature constraints described above otherwise being applicable. Because of heat removal and reactor temperature limitations, the preferred maximum copolymer concentration at the reactor outlet is 25 wt. 100 wt. diluent. The most preferred maximum concentration is 15 wt. 100 wt. There is no lower limit to concentration due to reactor operability, but for economic reasons, it is preferred to have a copolymer concentration of at least 2 wt. 100 wt. Most preferred is a concentration of at least 3 wt. 100 wt. The rate of flow of the reaction mixture through the reactor should be high enough to provide good mixing of the reactants in the radial direction and minimize mixing in the axial direction. Good radial mixing is beneficial not only to both the Intra and Inter CD of the copolymer chains, but also to minimize radial temperature gradients due to the heat generated by the polymerization reaction. Radial temperature gradients will tend to broaden the molecular weight distribution of the copolymer, since the polymerization rate is faster in the high temperature regions resulting from poor heat dissipation. The artisan will recognize that achievement of these objectives is difficult in the case of highly viscous solutions. This problem can be overcome to some extent through the use of radial mixing devices such as static mixers e.g., those produced by the Kenics Corporation . It is believed that residence time of the reaction mixture in the mix free reactor can vary over a wide range. It is believed that the minimum could be as low as about 1 second. A preferred minimum is about 10 seconds. The most preferred minimum is about 15 seconds. It is believed that the maximum could be as high as about 3600 seconds. A preferred maximum is about 1800 seconds. The most preferred maximum is about 900 seconds. With reference to the accompanying drawings, particularly Fig. 1, reference numeral 1 generally refers to a premixing device for premixing the catalyst components. For purposes of illustration, it is assumed that the copolymer of ethylene and propylene EPM is to be produced using as catalyst components vanadium tetrachloride and ethyl aluminum sesquichloride. The polymerization is an adiabatic, solution polymerization process using hexane solvent for both the catalyst system and the reaction mixture. The premixing device 1 comprises a temperature control bath 2, a fluid flow conduit 3 and mixing device 4 e.g., a mixing tee . To mixing device 4 are fed hexane solvent, vanadium tetrachloride and ethyl aluminum sesquichloride through feed conduits 5, 6 and 7, respectively. Upon being mixed in mixing device 4, the resulting catalyst mixture is caused to flow within conduit 3, optionally in the form of a coiled tube, for a time long enough to produce the active catalyst species at the temperature set by the temperature bath. The temperature of the bath is set to give the desired catalyst solution temperature in conduit 3 at the outlet of the bath. Upon leaving the premixing device, the catalyst solution flows through conduit 8 into mixing zone 9 to provide an intimate mixing with hexane solvent and reactants ethylene and propylene which are fed through conduit 10. Any suitable mixing device can be used, such as a mechanical mixer, orifice mixer or mixing tee. For economic reasons, the mixing tee is preferred. The residence time of the reaction mixture in mixing zone 9 is kept short enough to prevent significant polymer formation therein before being fed through conduit 11 to the first section of the tubular reactor, 12. Alternatively, streams 8 and 10 can be fed directly to the inlet of reactor 12 if the flow rates are high enough to accomplish the desired level of intimate mixing. The hexane with dissolved monomers may be cooled upstream of mixing zone 9 to provide the desired feed temperature at the reactor inlet. At the outlet of the tubular reactor, In one embodiment, the process of this invention is carried out by beginning the polymerization of the poly co ethylene propylene which is permitted to grow to a molecular weight of several tens of thousands, e.g., 10,000 to 50,000 number average molecular weight. The polymerization of the copolymer will generally have proceeded to about 50 of the total anticipated weight of polymer at the end of polymerization, more preferably at least 70 of the total weight at that point in time, the diene monomer, and optionally, a cationic catalyst if the diene is subject to cationically catalyzed coupling are introduced into the reactor with or without additional ethylene and propylene. With Ziegler copolymerizable dienes the polymer copolymerizes with the double bonds of the diene monomer to form the nodular polymers of this invention. This diolefin copolymerizes at the chain ends coupling several chains, as illustrated schematically in Figure 5. Alternatively, coupling agent may be added at the entrance to the tubular reactor with a part of the ethylene and alpha olefin monomer, polymerization being carried out until nodules are formed and the coupling agent is substantially converted then additional ethylene and alpha olefin are added to grow nodular polymers of this invention. With reference to Fig. 2, which schematically illustrates a process for mixing nodular copolymer with lube oil, a nodular copolymer product from reactor 15 is fed through conduit 16 to deashing section 17, wherein catalyst residues are removed from the reaction mixture in a known manner known as deashing . The vanadium and aluminum compound residues are removed by reacting them with water to form hydrocarbon isoluble hydroxides, and then extracting the hydroxides into dilute acid. After separating the aqueous and hydrocarbon phases, for instance in a gravity settler, the polymer solution, which primarily contains solvent, unreacted monomers and copolymer product EPM , is fed through conduit 18 to lube oil mixing tank 19. Of course, tank 19 could be a staged series of tanks. Hot lube oil is fed through conduit 20 to mixing tank 19, wherein the remaining reaction mixture is heated up such that the remaining hexane and unreacted monomers are vaporized and removed through recycle conduit 21, through which they flow back for reuse in premixing device 1 following suitable purification, to remove any catalyst poisons. The copolymer product, being hydrocarbon soluble, is now present in the lube oil and is removed from tank 19 as a copolymer in oil solution. Alternatively, the copolymer solution from the gravity settler can be steam distilled with subsequent extrusion drying of the polymer, and then mixed with a hydrocarbon mineral oil diluent to produce an oil additive concentrate or lube oil additive. Having thus described the above illustrative reactor system, it will readily occur to the artisan that many variations can be made within the scope of the present ivention. For example, the placement and number of multiple feed sites, the choice of temperature profile during polymerization, and the concentrations of reactants can be varied to suit the end use application. By practising processes in accordance with the present invention, alpha olefin copolymers having very narrow MWD can be made by direct polymerization and coupled to form nodular polymers. A lubricating oil composition in accordance with the present invention comprises a major amount of basestock lubricating oil lube oil of lubricating viscosity which contains an effective amount of Viscosity Index improver being a nodular copolymer of ethylene and at least one other alpha olefin, as described in detail above. More specifically, the chains coupled to form the nodular copolymer should have a MWD characterized by at least one of a ratio of In one embodiment of the invention, the Intra CD of the copolymer is such that at least two portions of an individual intramolecularly hetrogeneous chain, each portion comprising at least 5 weight percent of the chain, differ in composition from one another by at least 5 weight percent ethylene. The Intra CD can be such that at least two portions of copolymer chain differ by at least 10 weight percent ethylene. Difference of at least 20 weight percent, as well as 40 weight percent ethylene, are also considered to be in accordance with the present invention. In another embodiment of the invention, the Inter CD of the copolymer is such that 95 wt. of the copolymer chains have an ethylene composition that differs from the copolymer average weight percent ethylene composition by 15 wt. or less. The preferred Inter CD is about 13 or less, with the most preferred being about 10 or less. In a particular embodiment, the copolymer has all of the MWD, Intra CD and Inter CD characteristics described above when incorporated in a lubricating oil or oil additive concentrate composition. In current practice, ethylene propylene copolymer is most preferred. The preferred ethylene content of the copolymer, on a weight basis, for use as a lube oil additive is about from 30 to 75 . For lube oil additive applications, it is believed that the copolymer could have a weight average molecular weight as low as about 2,000. The preferred minimum is about 15,000, with about 50,000 being the most preferred minimum. It is believed that the maximum weight average molecular weight could be as high as about 12,000,000. The preferred maximum is about 300,000, with about 250,000 being the most preferred maximum. The preferred ethylene content is 30 to 75 . The nodular copolymers of this invention may be employed in lubricating oils as Viscosity Index improvers or viscosity modifiers in amounts varying broadly from about 0.001 to 49 wt. . The proportions giving the best results will vary somewhat according to the nature of the lubricating oil basestock and the specific purpose for which the lubricant is to serve in a given case. When used as lubricating oils for diesel or gasoline engine crankcase lubricants, the polymer concentrations are within the range of about 0.1 to 15.0 wt. of the total composition, which are amounts effective to provide Viscosity Index improvements. Typically, such polymeric additives are sold as oil additive concentrates wherein the additive is present in amounts of about 5 to 50 wt. , preferably 6 to 25 wt. based on the total amount of hydrocarbon mineral oil diluent for the additive. The polymers of this invention are typically used in lubricating oils based on a hydrocarbon mineral oil having a viscosity of about 0.02 0.4 cm² 2 40 centistokes ASTM D 445 at 99 C however, lubricating oil basestocks comprised of a mixture of a hydrocarbon mineral oil and up to about 25 wt. of a synthetic lubricating oil, such as esters of dibasic acids and complex esters derived from monobasic acids, polyglycols, dibasic acids and alcohols, are also considered suitable. The novel compositions of this invention comprise about 0.05 to about 25 mol coupling agent based on the total nodular polymer, preferably about 0.1 to about 15 mol , more preferably about 0.15 to about 10 mol . In the process for preparing the nodular copolymer, the coupling agent is preferably utilized in the reaction mixture at about 0.1 to about 80 wt. based on the total monomer, more preferably about 0.5 to about 50 wt. . The most preferred range is 2 to 20 . The novel process to form the nodular polymers of this invention may be more readily appreciated by reference to the following examples. Solution polymerization of ethylene, propylene and norbornadiene was carried out in a tubular reactor with VCl₄ catalyst and Al₂Et₃Cl₃ EASC cocatalyst as the catalyst system. Norbornadiene NBD is a Ziegler copolymerizable diene that yields a nodular copolymer in the presence of the VCl₄ EASC catalyst system. The polymerization equipment is shown in Fig. 1. The catalyst and co catalyst were premixed as dilute solutions in hexane for about 6 sec. at 0 C. The catalyst was combined with chilled hexane, ethylene, and propylene at a temperature of 10 C in mixing zone 9. The reaction mixture then entered reactor 12. At point 13 along the reactor, norbornadiene was fed dissolved in hexane with varying amounts of ethylene through line 14. The reactor residence time was 40 sec. The polymerization was conducted adiabatically to give a reactor outlet temperature of about 40 C. The polymerization was terminated by quenching the catalyst with water and the polymer was recovered from solution by steam stripping to remove the hexane followed by drying the polymer on a hot rubber mill. Characteristics of the polymerization prior to point 13 were measured by removing small polymer solution samples and determining the polymer concentration. As shown by the results 1A, 1B and 1C in Table I, increasing the ethylene feed rate at point 13 increases the NBD content of the polymer and thereby the amount of chain coupling as measured by the increase in Mooney viscosity ML and bulk viscosity No . The viscosity ratio, which measures the amount of chain coupling by comparing the viscosity of the branched and an unbranched copolymer of the same The procedure of example 1 was repeated except ethylidene norbornene ENB was added at point 13. ENB is a cross linkable diene that gives chain coupling in the presence of a Lewis acid such as EASC which is present as part of the catalyst system. As shown in Table I, the nodular polymer produced has an enhanced viscosity ratio. Polymerization in a tubular reactor is carried out with VCl₄ catalyst and diisobutyl aluminum chloride DIBAC cocatalyst as the catalyst system. The components are premixed for 1 sec. at 0 C and combined with a hexane, ethylene, and propylene solution at 0 C at the reactor inlet. ENB, ethylene, and hexane are fed at point 13 along the reactor to form a second chain segment containing coupling agent. Feed rates are shown in Table I. The polymer solution exiting the reactor is substantially uncoupled. The solution is subjected to reduced pressure to strip off most of the unreacted monomers and then a solution of ethyl aluminum dichloride, a Lewis acid catalyst, is added to couple the chains by crosslinking. The product is recovered by aqueous deashing to remove catalyst residues followed by steam stripping to remove the solvent, and extrusion drying of the polymer. The procedure of example 3 is repeated in a tubular reactor containing two additional inlets downstream of the point 13 shown in Fig. 1. An additional monomer feed of 50 g hr of ethylene dissolved in hexane is added at the first of these inlets to increase the extent of ENB incorporation into the growing copolymer chains, and the polymerization is allowed to proceed until substantially all of the ENB is converted. A feed of 100 g hr of ethylene, 500 g hr propylene and 6 l hr of hexane is fed at the second inlet to form a chain segment containing essentially only ethylene and propylene. The polymer exiting the reactor is substantially uncrosslinked and has a narrow MWD characterized by Polymerization in a tubular reactor is carried out with VCl₄ catalyst and EASC cocatalyst as the catalyst system, premixed as described in Example 1. The catalyst stream is combined at the reactor inlet with a monomer feed of ethylene, propylene, and vinyl norbornene dissolved in hexane. Vinyl norbornene is a Ziegler copolymerizable diene that produces coupled chains in the presence of the catalyst system. Feed rates are as shown in Table I. After a reaction time sufficient to produce high diene conversion, ethylene, propylene and additional hexane are added at point 13 along the reactor. The polymerization is quenched with water at the end of the reactor and the polymer is recovered by usual means. The product is a nodular copolymer having a high viscosity ratio. Polymerization of monomer is carried out as described in Example 3 to produce a solution of uncoupled polymer chains. This solution is fed to an agitated vessel maintained at 25 C temperature along with SCl₂. The SCl₂ feed rate is set at 1.2 mol mol of double bonds available in the polymer. Chain coupling takes place in a residence time of 10 minutes. The polymer is recovered from the solution by steam stripping and extrusion drying to yield a nodular copolymer product. The polymerization of Example 3 is repeated except isopropylidene norbornene is fed to the reactor instead of ENB and the feed rates are as shown in Table I. The polymer chains leaving the reactor are substantially uncoupled. The polymer is recovered from solution by steam stripping followed by extrusion drying. The dried polymer is compounded with 0.5 phr of t butyl peroxide free radical catalyst and subjected to a temperature of 100 C for 60 minutes. The resulting polymer is a nodular branched copolymer soluble in lubricating oils.