# Use of butoxybenzylhyoscyamine bromide in pharmaceutical compositions against deafness and tinnitus.

## Abstract
A pharmaceutical composition containing butoxybenzylhyoscyamine bromide, which is effective against deafness and tinnitus.

## Claims
Patent Claim Use of butoxybenzylhyoscyamine bromide in a pharmaceutical composition against deafness and tinnitus.

## Description
Use of butoxybenzylhyoscyamine bromide in pharmaceutical compositions against deafness and tinnitus.The invention relates to the use of butoxybenzylhyoscyamine bromide in pharmaceutical compositions against deafness and tinnitus.Causes of deafness and tinnitus have not been completely elucidated and a satisfactory curative method has not been established. For remedy of deafness and tinnitus, there have been employed vitamins such as vitaminsA, B1, B2, B6 and B12, pantothenic acid, chondroitin sulfate, ATP and vasodilators. However, satisfactory curative effects can hardly be attained by these drugs.Under such background, investigations have been made with a view to developing an effective medicament for remedy of deafness and tinnitus and it has surprisingly been found that butoxybenzylhyoscyamine bromide, whose antispasmatic activity is known, is effective in pharmaceutical compositions against deafness, especially perceptive deafness, and tinnitus.Most of causes of perceptive deafness are unknown and this disease is owing to irreversible changes, though causes of conductive deafness are substantially obvious, and therefore, remedy of perceptive deafness can hardly be expected by medicinal therapy. However, it has been found that with a pharmaceutical composition even perceptive deafness can be effectively cured. Accordingly, the present invention makes great contributions to cure of deafness.The general name of butoxybenzylhyoscyamine bromide that is used in the present invention is butropium bromide, and this compound is a synthetic antispasmodic for digestive canals which has been used for allevating spasmodic pains in gastritis, enteritis, gastric ulcer, duodental ulcer, cholelithiasis and cholecystitis. This compound has the following structural formula EMI2.1 This compound is usually called N p n butoxybenzyl hyoscyaminium bromide and is a white crystal or crystalline powder having a melting point of about 166 C. It is a primary object of the present invention to provide a novel use of the above compound as drug against deafness, tinnitus and impaired hearing. The amount administered of butoxybenzylhyoscyamine bromide is changed depending on the degree of deafness or tinnitus, but when it is administered to adults, the amount administered is ordinarily about 1 to about 200 mg per day. The agent may be adminestered orally or by injection, and the administration form is not particularly limita tive. The agent may be applied in the form of a powder, a granule, a tablet, a capsule, an injection or a suppo sitory. The agent may be formed into such drug by using pharmaceutical carrier customarily used in this field. Toxicity of butoxybenzylhyoscyamine bromide in detail A The acute toxicity, LD50 mg kg , is as shown in table 1 Table 1Animal Sex Administration Oral hyperdermic intramuscular intravenous rat 1600 800 480 21 rat Kazoo 600 7800 480 21 mouse so 1920 370 285 8.o mouse o 1600 570 320 6.4 rabbit t 6.8 B The compound was administered in an amount of 3.2, 8.o or 20 mg kg per day to male and female rats continously during 25 weeks to determine the chronic toxicity.In the group of rats in which the daily administered amount was 20 mg kg, there were observed such changes as inactive motion, mydriasis, control of increase of the body weight, storage of a small quantity of abdominal dropsy and formation of false membranes on the liver and spleen.However, no substantial change was observed in any organ, and particular changes or disorders were not observed at all at tests of blood and urine.In order to clarify the effects of the present invention, results of clinical tests will now be described in detail below with reference to drawings in which Figures 1 to 6 show audiograms obtained in Cases 1 to 6. The dates affixed to the audiograms indicate the measurement dates. I Object Among patients who came into the hospital during the period of from September 1976 to September 1977 while complaining of deafness or tinnitus, those meeting the following conditions were chosen. 1 Patients suffering from perceptive deafness where the pure tone region was clinically considered to be fixed, or patients suffering from everlasting tinnitus though hearing loss was not observed. 2 Patients who had previously received one or other medicinal treatment but with no improvement. 3 Adults who were generally healthy and did not suffer from other complications, especially glaucoma and benign prostatic hypertrophy.Butoxybenzylhyoscyamine bromide was administered to 74 patients meeting the above conditions. II Method In principle, a mixture of 4 mg of butoxybenzylhyoscyamine bromide with 20 glucose was intravenously injected at first, and then, two capsules, each containing 5 mg of butoxybenzylhyoscyamine bromide, was administered 3 times per day namely, 6 capsules being administered as a whole per day . The administration of capsules was conducted for one week. III Measurement Items a The standard autiometry 125 8000 Hz, air and bone condition was carried out before the injection. b The same test was conducted 30 minutes after the injection. In patients complaining of tinnitus, the change of the degree of tinnitus was examined. c The audiometry was carried out on the 7th day from the start of the oral administration. If the patients felt changes of hearing power or tinnitus during this period, the audiometry was appropriately conducted. d During the oral administraion period of 7 days, desease conditions such as 1 hearing power 2 tinnitus, 3 other ear symptoms and 4 side effects were recorded in examination cards. IV Results 1. Change of hearing power just after injection 30 minutes With respect to 50 patients, the audiometry was carried out just after the intravenous injection of butoxybenzyl hyoscyamine bromide 30 minutes after the injection to obtain results shown in table 2. Sounds of 250 Hz, 1000 Hz and 8000 Hz were chosen as typical instances of sounds of the low tone, medium tone and high tone regions, respectively, and changes of the hearing power to these sounds were examined. The change within a range of 5 dB was judged as no change11 and the change exceeding 5 dB was judged as improvement or worsening .EMI6.1 tb SEP Table SEP 2 tb SEP dB SEP 250 SEP Hz SEP 1000 SEP Hz SEP 8000 SEP Hz tb worsening SEP 1o SEP 8 SEP SEP 2 SEP SEP 2 tb SEP 5 SEP 8 SEP 12 SEP 6 tb no SEP change SEP o SEP 36 SEP 74 SEP 54 SEP 90 SEP 5 SEP 86 tb SEP SEP 5 SEP 30 SEP 24 SEP 26 tb SEP 1o SEP 12 SEP 21 SEP 8 tb improvement SEP 15 SEP 6 SEP 18 SEP 4 SEP 8 SEP 4 SEP 12 tb SEP 20 SEP o SEP 2 SEP o tb As will be apparent from the results shown in table 2, the highest improvement was 20 dB 1ooo Hz but in many cases, the improvement was up to 15 dB. The improvement was higher in the order of the low tone region 18 , the high tone region 12 and the mediom tone region 8 and the average improvement of the hearing power after the intravenous injection was about 13 .2. Improvement of Tinnitus With respect to 41 patients complaining of tinnitus, the change of degree of tinnitus was examined after oneweek s oral administration to obtain results shown belof in table 3. Table 3 Number ofRank Change Contents of Change patients 1 remarkably tinnitus disappeared of effective condition was highly improved 5 2 effective tinnitus did nod dis appear bus was relieved 1o 3 ineffective no change 24 4 worsening tinnitus was worsened 2As will be apparent from the results shown in table 3, the agent was effective in 15 patients 36 , though the agent of the present invention was ineffective in 24 patients 59 or the agent worsened the state in 2 patients 5 .3. Change of hearing power after administration Changes of the hearing power were examined during a period of 1 year and three months at longest after one week s administration. With respect to cases where high improving effects were attained, the clinical history will be described.Case 1 male, 35 years old On September 4, 1976, a patient suffering from perceptive deafness was measured for his hearing power by the audiogram, the result of the audiogram is indicated in the curve 0 of Fig. 1. Six capsules, each containing 5 mg of butoxybenzylhyoscyamine bromide, were administered to the patient per day. The change of the hearing power was traced to obtain the results shown in the audiograms ofFig. 1. As will be apparent from Fig. 2, the improvement was observed in the low tone region after the administration and the hearing loss was reduces since then. As is obvious from the audiograms O and commat obtained on September 6 and 16, 1976, respectively, the hearing power was improved even after stopping of the administration.Case 2 male, 54 years old On August 17, 1976, the patient was first examined. He complained that deafness had occurred in the left ear about 1o days before. Perceptive deafness of flat hearing loss of about 30 dB was observed in the left ear and the recruitment phenomenon was positive. C.P. was observed on the left side in the static sense test. Accordingly, the sellate ganglion block hereinafter referred to asS.G.B. was conducted and simultaneously, vitamin B1 and the like were administered. However, the hearing power was gradually reduced and when one months had passed from occurrence of deafness, hearing loss was about 50 dB as shown in the audiogramm0of Fig. 2. During this period, however, the patient did not feel dizzy.OnSeptember 4, 1976, oral administration of butoxybenzylhyoscyamine bromide was started while conducting S.G.B., and when the administration was continued for one week, the hearing power was returned to the level equal to the level at the first examination, and the hearing loss was gradually reduced even after stopping of the administration. After about 1 month, namely on October 7, 1976, it was found that the hearing loss was reduced to lo dB.Tinnitus disappeared with the improvement of the hearing power.Case 3 male, 21 years oldOn March 29, 1977, deafness suddenly occurred in the right ear and the patient complained of dizziness. The audiogram was flat and perceptive deafness of hearing loss of 50 to 60 dB was observed. Vasodilators and vitamins B1, B6 and B12 were administered for remedy of sudden deafness, but no substantial improvement of the hearing power was attained. During this period, dizziness disappeared. At the time of first examination, spontaneous nystagmus toward the affected ear was observed, but it immediately disappeared. Accordingly, the case was diagnosed as fixed sudden deafness and intravenous injection of butoxybenzylhyoscyamine bromide was conducted 6 times on April 16, 19, 26 and 38 and May 9, 1977, respectively.The reduction of the hearing power, which had been considered to be fixed, was remarkably improved in the low tone region see audiogram 1 to 4 of Fig. 3 .Case 4 female, 56 years old The patient had suffered from deafness since 1952 1953, bud did not receive any medical treatment. Since about 1o days before the visit to the hospital, pains had attacke both the ears. No substantial change was observed on the drum membranes, and the case was diagnosed as perceptive deafness of both the ears showing abrupt hearing loss in the high tone region see audiogram commat ofFig. 4 .From the clinical history, the case was diagnosed as fixed perceptive deafness, and intravenous injection of butoxybenzylhyoscyamine bromide was conducted once and the same agent was then orally administered for 1 week.After one week s oral administration, the hearing power war gradually improved and when 3 weeks had passed, the hearing power was restored by 20 dB 2 KHz at maximum and by about lo dB on the average as seen from the audio gram O2 of Fig. 4. Then, the oral administration was conducted again for 1 week. At the point of termination of the oral adminstration ay 6,1977 , it was found that the haering power was further improved in the lowtone region. Then, the hearing power war periodically examined, and on June 27, 1977, the hearing power was restored to a level shown in the audiogram of Fig. 4. Thus, it has been confirmed that the agent of the present invention is effective even for remedy of long standing deafness, of which the patient gave up the expectation of remedy.Case 5 male, 56 years old The patient complained of perceptive deafness of the left ear, and vitamins B1, B6 and B12 and vasodilators were adminstered from December 28, 1976 to January 19, 1977.The hearing power was not improved but rather worsened.From January 19, 1977, butoxybenzylhyoscyamine bromide war orally administered for 3 weeks in an amount of 6 capsules per day. The hearing power war gradually recovered but was not returned to the normal level see audiograms Cl to 3 of Fig. 5 .Case 6 male 67 years old In this case, the change of the hearing power could not be traced, but it was found that the hearing loss was extremely reduced 30 minutes after intravenous injection of butoxybenzylhyoscyamine bromide. In Fig. 6, the audiogramm z is one obtained 30 minutes after the intravenous injection. Examples for the use of butoxybenzylhyoscyamine bromide in the formulation of drugs against deafness will now be described, though the present invention by no means limited by these examples. Preparation Example 1 capsules Butoxybenzylhyoscyamine bromide 5.o g Crystalline cellulose 50.0 g Corn starch 25.o g Lactose 20.o g Total loo.o gCapsules were prepared from the foregoing ingredients according to customary procedures.Preparation Example 2 injection Butoxybenzylhyoscyamine bromide 4 g Glucose 50 g Distilled water for injection appropriate amount Total looo mlInjection ampuoles, each containing 4 mg of butoxybenzylhyoscyamine bromide in 1 ml of the liquid, were prepared from the above ingredients according to customary procedures.