# Immunological complex, its preparation and its use.

## Abstract
The invention relates to an immunological complex of two antibodies of a first animal species, e.g. mouse antibodies, which have been conjugated to form a cyclic tetramer with two monoclonal antibodies of a second animal species, e.g. rat monoclonal antibodies, directed against the Fc fragment of the antibodies of the first animal species. Preferably, the complex is bifunctional, that is to say, that it contains two different antibodies of the first animal species, one of which is preferably directed to a detectable substance, such as an enzyme, e.g. peroxidase, and the other is directed to any desired antigen. A tetrameric complex of this kind may be used as a labelled antibody in immunoassays. Further, the invention relates to processes for preparing the complexes and for using the complexes in immunological reactions. Finally, the invention relates to drugs containing a complex according to the invention, as the complexes may be used to direct certain active principles to target cells.

## Claims
1. Immunological complex of two antibodies of a first animal species which have been conjugated to form a cyclic tetramer with two monoclonal antibodies of a second animal species directed against the Fc fragment of the antibodies of the first animal species.

## Description
When carrying out immunological determinations, measurement of the extent to which an immunological reaction antigen antibody reaction has proceeded, is necessary. Generally, the antigen or the antibody therefore has to be provided with a detectable group label . For this purpose various methods are in use already, of which labelling with radioactive, fluorescent, chemiluminescent or enzymatically active atoms or groups may be mentioned. Generally, these detectable groups or atoms are introduced into the antigen or into the antibody by chemical means. Various chemical coupling methods, especially for enzymes, are discussed in Immunohistochemistry Another approach to the labelling of antibodies is described in Nature It was now found that immunological reagents possessing two different functions may be prepared in a much simpler way. Namely, it was found that antibodies of a first animal species form a cyclic tetrameric complex with monoclonal antibodies of a second animal species the Fab fragments of which are directed against the Fc fragments of the first animal species. The cyclic tetrameric complex is built from two molecules of antibodies of the first animal species and two molecules of the antibodies of the second animal species. These cyclic tetrameric complexes possess high stability. When the antibodies of the first animal species are different from each other the immunological complex is bifunctional and may be used in the same way as abovementioned bifunctional antibodies which may be produced with hybridomas. In the first place the invention relates to an immunological complex built from two antibodies of a first animal species, which are conjugated to form a cyclic tetramer with two monoclonal antibodies of a second animal species directed against the Fc fragment of the antibodies of the first animal species. The most important embodiment of the invention is an immuno logical complex which is bifunctional and in which two different antibodies of the first animal species are conjugated to form a cyclic tetramer with two monoclonal antibodies of a second animal species directed against the Fc fragment of the antibodies of the first animal species. The formation of the cyclic tetrameric complexes according to the invention has been shown by means of electrophoresis on agar plates and by means of electronmicroscopy. Thus, mouse antibodies of the immunoglobulin gamma 1 IgG1 subclass against the enzyme peroxidase were mixed with a monoclonal rat antibody specific to mouse IgG1. Last mentioned antibody was selected for its capability to bind two different mouse antibodies. On reaction of the anti enzyme antibody with an equimolar amount of the rat antibody practically all of the enzyme binding activity appeared to migrate, in electrophoresis, as a single band with a mobility different that of the separate antibodies. A similar test was carried out with mouse antibodies against the enzyme alkaline phosphatase. Also in this test a similar complex was formed. The formation of the complexes proceeds extremely quickly, in any case within the time necessary to mis the antibodies, to apply a sample on the agar plate and to begin with the electrophoresis. The minimum time necessary for this is 20 seconds. When the two anti enzyme antibodies are first mixed with each other and then the monoclonal rat antibody is added three different complexes are formed, namely a complex containing exclusively the anti peroxidase, a complex containing exclusively the anti alkaline phosphatase and a complex containing both of the anti enzyme antibodies. When the anti enzyme antibodies are first mixed separately with the monoclonal rat antibody and then both of the so formed homologous complexes are mixed, a bifunctional complex is not formed. Apparently the complexes formed are so stable that no mutual exchange of anti bodies takes place. When a lower than equivalent amount of the rat antibody is added to a mixture of the anti enzyme antibodies the above mentioned three complexes are also formed, but unbonded anti enzyme antibody is left. The structure of the complexes according to the invention was investigated with scanning transmission electronmicroscopy STEM . In images of negatively stained complexes, structures could be observed which correspond to cyclic tetramers of immunoglobulins. Dominating in the image are tetrameric complexes of which the Fab fragments of the mouse and rat antibodies together with the Fc fragment of the rat antibodies are clearly visible. Certain details of the complexes, such as the domains and the two chains of the mouse Fab fragments, as well as the spacial orientation of the Fab and Fc fragments could be distinguished well. It appears clearly from the results of the agar gelelectrophoresis which are illustrated in figure 1 and in example I, and from the electronmicroscopy that the cyclic tetrameric complexes are formed. The stable complexes according to the invention apparently have the structure as schematically indicated in figure 2. When it is desired to prepare the bifunctional complexes, for example from antibodies against peroxidase, and from antibodies against a surface antigen on human blood platelets, both of the antibodies may be mixed in any desired ratio and the mixture may be reacted with the monoclonal antibody against the Fc fragments of the two first mentioned antibodies. The highest yield of bifunctional complex is obtained, however, when the antibodies against peroxidase and the antibodies against a surface antigen on human blood platelets are mixed in equimolar ratio. As remarked above the reaction product always contains also homologous complexes, in the case of the example complexes containing only antibodies against peroxidase, and complexes containing only antibodies against the surface antigen on human blood platelets. These homologous complexes should not always interfere in the use of the reaction product as an immunological reagent. For example, when the above mentioned reaction product is reacted with human blood platelets the complexes containing exclusive ly antibodies against peroxidase will not adhere to the blood platelets. The other complexes will do, but only the bifunctional complexes will give a reaction with platelets and a reaction with peroxidase. If desired, the bifunctional complex may be isolated in pure condition, for example by means of anion exchange chromatography. Also, the ratio between the bifunctional complex and both of the homologous complexes in the reaction product can be influenced by changing the molar ratio of the antibodies of the first animal species used. Thus, when using the anti peroxidase antibody and the antibody against a surface antigen on blood platelets in a higher ratio than 1 1, for example 5 1, a reaction product is obtained in which the ratio of the homologous complex containing exclusively anti blood platelets antibodies, to the bifunctional complex is changed in favour of the bifunctional complex. Among the bifunctional immunological complexes according to the invention those complexes are preferred in which the Fab fragments of one of the antibodies of the first animal species are directed against a substance having a desired property, such as detectability, toxicity, therapeutical activity. In this connection it is a condition that such substances provoke the production of antibodies in an animal, including humans. Examples of detectable substances, which may provoke the production of antibodies are enzymes, such as horse radish peroxidase, alkaline phosphatase, glucose oxidase and galactosidase. The other antibody which is formed into a bifunctional complex together with the antibody against a substance having a desired property, may be directed to any desired antigen. As examples of antigens against which the second antibody of the first animal species may be directed, there may be mentioned surface membrane antigens, such as antigens on the surface of blood cells, for example erythrocytes or blood platelets, or viral antigens. Further, the second antibody of the first animal species can be directed to a specific antigen which is produced by a malignent cell. Bifunctional complexes containing such an antibody of the first animal species can be used not only for the detection of malignant cells, but also for directing substances which are toxic with respect to these cells towards the malignant cells. In the first case the first antibody of the first animal species is directed against a detectable substance, for example an enzyme, and in the second case against a substance inhibiting the growth of the malignant cells. The animal species from which the antibodies of the present tetrameric complexes are derived, are not important. It is often convenient to combine mouse antibodies with rat antibodies. The monoclonal antibodies of the second animal species have to be directed against the Fc fragments of the antibodies of the first animal species, and each of both of the Fab fragments of the monoclonal antibodies of the second animal species have to be capable of binding with the Fc fragment of one antibody of the first animal species. The presence of an Fc fragment in the monoclonal antibodies of the second animal species is not essential. In certain cases it may even be advantageous to split off the Fc fragment from the antibodies of the second animal species before formation of the cyclic complex. This can be effected in a known way by means of an enzyme, for example pepsin. Further, the invention relates to a bifunctional immunological complex as described above, which is coupled with the antigen against which one of the antibodies of the first animal species is directed. This antigen may be, for example, a detectable substance, such as an enzyme. In that case the complex has the properties of a labelled antibody. When the antigen is a substance having another desirable property, for example toxicity with respect to malignant cells, the complex can be used, for example, as a drug. The invention also relates to a process for preparing immunological complexes, which is characterized in that antibodies of a first animal species are reacted with an about equivalent amount of antibodies of a second animal species which are directed against the Fc fragments of the antibodies of the first animal species, and in that, if desired, the tetrameric complex formed is isolated. The preparation of a bifunctional complex coupled to an antigen, which also belongs to the invention, is effected by reaction of a bifunctional complex with the antigen in question. Also, the invention relates to a process for carrying out immunological reactions, in which the bifunctional immunological complexes according to the invention are used. An example of such a reaction is the detection of human antibodies bonded to viral antigens which have been transferred to nitrocellulose paper after electro phoresis, by means of bispecific anti human IgG anti alkaline phosphatase alkaline phosphatase complexes. The invention provides a simple, specific and efficient way to couple antibodies with each other and, for example, to label anti bodies. Due to the high specificity of the monoclonal antibodies of the second animal species the use of non purified antibodies is possible. The process for preparing tetrameric complexes is very simple and takes extremely little time. This is a large improvement in comparison with chemical labelling of antibodies. Also in comparison with the bifunctional monoclonal antibodies produced by hybrid cell lines the invention offers the advantage that it is not necessary to select cell lines, and that the complexes may be built from bivalent monoclonal antibodies having known properties. The bifunctional complexes according to the invention may also be used for specific coupling of antigens. Suitable combinations of monoclonal antibodies may be used for identification and separation of antigens. Further, specific interactions which are induced by bifunctional or homologous tetrameric complexes may generally improve the effectivity of fusions, transfections and interactions between cells. Thus, for example, erythrocytes may be labelled with bifunctional complexes built from anti erythrocyte antibodies and anti HLA DR antibodies. In this way bifunctional complexes may be used to direct or to improve interactions between cells. In this connection in use, in vivo, to direct certain effector cells to micro organisms, virus infected cells and tumor cells, may be mentioned. The homologous cyclic tetrameric complexes according to the invention may be used, for example, for detecting human antibodies on human red blood cells, for example Rhesus antibodies. In this case homologous complexes of anti human IgG antibodies are used as anti immunoglobulin Coomb s reagent for the agglutination of sensitized erythrocytes. The invention is illustrated in the following examples which, however, do not limit the invention in any way whatsoever. a. Mouse anti peroxidase antibody. Monoclonal mouse antibodies against horse radish peroxidase CLB HRP 1 were used for the gel electrophoresis. A stock solution 0.2 mg ml, in phosphate buffered saline PBS pH 7.2 of the antibody, which was purified over a protein A Sepharose column was diluted to the desired concentration with PBS. b. Mouse anti alkaline phosphatase antibody. Monoclonal antibodies against alkaline peroxidase CLB AP 4 were used. Starting material was the 20 x concentrated supernatant of the tissue culture containing 0.2 mg antibody ml. This was diluted to the desired concentration with PBS. c. Monoclonal rat anti mouse antibodies. In the gel electrophoresis monoclonal rat antibodies against mouse IgG1 were used. These were obtained by fusion Nature d. Gel elctrophoresis was carried out on agar plates according to Wieme Gel Electroforesis Elsevier Publ. Co., Amsterdam 1976 . The following products were introduced upon the lanes of three agar plates The electrophoresis was carried out during 45 minutes at pH 8.5 and 300 volts. Then the agar plates were covered with nitrocellulose paper and filter paper and a pressure of about 0.1 kg cm² was applied during 2 hours. The blots obtained were incubated in PBS, pH 7.2 with 3 weight volume bovine serum albumin BSA during 16 hours. The three blots so obtained were treated in different ways with enzymes, and developed. The results are shown in figure 1. Blot a figure 1 was incubated for 2 h with PBS BSA containing peroxidase labelled human kappa chains specific rabbit immunoglobulins DAKO, Copenhagen, Denmark, codenumber p 129 in a dilution of 1 100. These labelled immunoglobulins gave a stronger colour reaction with the monoclonal anti peroxidase antibody bonded to the nitrocellulose than purified monovalent peroxidase. The blots were washed three times during five minutes with PBS containing 0.1 percent by weight of Tween 20, and were incubated once during 20 minutes with 0.5 mg ml diaminobenzidine Sigma, Grade II in 0.05 M tris buffer, pH 7.5 containing 0.01 percent by weight of H₂0₂. Then the result was photographed. Blot b figure 1 was incubated during 2 h with PBS BSA containing alkaline phosphatase Sigma, Grade VII, catalogue number p 5521 in a concentration of 10 µg ml. The blots were washed three times during 5 minutes with PBS containing 0.1 percent by weight of Tween 20 and were incubated once during 20 minutes with 0.2 mg ml naphthol AS MX phosphate Sigma in 0.1 M tris buffer, pH 8.2 containing 1 mg ml Fast Red TR Sigma . Then the result was photographed. Blot c figure 1 was obtained by first carrying out the same steps as with blot a and, after the treatment with the peroxidase substrate, washing three times with PBS containing 0.1 percent Tween 20, then incubating with the alkaline phosphatase, washing again and then developing with the phosphatase substrate. The results show that the mouse antibodies form a stable complex with the monoclonal rat antimouse antibodies. Namely, in lane 6 of figure 1a and figure 1b one sees only one reaction product. In lane 6 of figure 1c two reaction products are shown, namely the homologous complex of the anti POD with the rat antibodies and the homologous complex of the anti AP with the rat antibodies. This shows that no bifunctional complex is formed when two homologous complexes are mixed with each other. To 100 µl of a solution of monoclonal antibodies having specificity for human IgG of the mouse IgG1 class in a concentration of 1 mg ml in phosphate buffered saline having a pH of 7.2 with 0.1 weight volume NaN₃ is added 100 µl of rat anti mouse antibody see example Ic having a concentration of 1 mg ml. The latter solution also contains 0.1 weight volume NaN₃. This mixture can be used in a dilution of 1 1000 as Coombs reagent in an indirect agglutination technique to detect binding of Rhesus antibodies to human blood cells. To 100 µl of a solution of monoclonal mouse antibodies anti leu 3a Becton and Dickinson, commercially available having a concentra tion of 0.1 mg ml in PBS pH 7.2 with 0.2 weight volume gelatine and 0.1 weight volume NaN₃ there are added 200 µl of a solution of monoclonal mouse anti alkaline phosphatase antibodies see example Ib having a concentration of 0.2 mg ml. Then 100 µl of a solution of rat anti mouse antibodies see Example Ic having a concentration of 1 mg ml and finally 200 µl of a solution of alkaline phosphatase Sigma, Grade VII having a concentration of 2.5 mg ml in PBS pH 7.2 are added to the mixture of mouse IgG1 antibodies. This mixture can be used in dilution of 50 to 100 times for detection of leu 3a positive cells in cryostate sections of,for example, human skin. Monoclonal mouse IgG1 anti erythrocyte antibodies and mouse IgG1 anti HLA DR antibodies were mixed in a molar ratio of 1 4. Then the monoclonal rat anti mouse antibodies see example Ic were added in an amount equivalent to the total of the mouse antibodies. The mixture was used for labelling erythrocytes. For that purpose the above mentioned mixture of antibodies was added in such an amount to an erythrocyte suspension having a concentration of 10⁸ cells ml that the final concentration calculated on the mouse antibodies used was 50 µg ml. Then there was incubated during 60 minutes at 0 C. Subsequently the labelled erythrocytes were washed with PBS BSA, the mixture was centrifuged 200 g 10 min. and was again suspended in the original volume of PBS BSA. Then human mononuclear peripheral blood cells were added in a ratio of erythrocytes to human mononuclear peripheral blood cells of 10 1. After centrifuging 200 g 10 min. there was incubated during 60 minutes at 0 C. Then the sediment was carefully suspended in PBS BSA. Cytocentrifuge preparations of the suspension were stained with May Grünwald Giemsa. Clear rosettes appeared to have been formed, which consist of erythrocyte coated HLA DR positive cells. The percentage of rosette forming, nucleus containing cells 25 agrees well with the percentage of HLA DR positive cells 29 which is determined by means of a step wise amplified immuno peroxidase staining J. Histo chemistry and Cytochemistry