# APPARATUS AND METHOD FOR MEASURING AND IMAGING FLUID FLOW

## Claims
Nicht invasives Verfahren, das eine MR Bildgebung mit strömungsbezogener Verbesserung verwendet, zum Identifizieren von Strömung in einer Arterie von einem lebenden Körper, enthaltend die Schritte

## Description
This invention generally relates to an apparatus and method utilizing magnetic resonance hereinafter referred to as MR techniques for enhancing the image produced from MR data of a flowing fluid and, more particularly, for enhancing the image of a flowing fluid having a time dependent velocity. Magnetic resonance imaging has a number of capabilities and attributes that distinguish it from other diagnostic modalities. In addition to its potential ability to monitor cell metabolism on a molecular level, an important feature of the MR signal is its sensitivity to bulk motion such as blood flow in living tissue. Depending on the specific pulse scheme used and on the nature of the pulses administered, the image of flowing fluid may be either enhanced or reduced in intensity relative to a stationary ambient environment. The flow dependence of the MR signal is one of MR s unique properties whose exploitation for the study of the cardiovascular system has only recently begun. Many approaches have been proposed for measuring or imaging flow. One group of MR methods for imaging flow are commonly referred to as time of flight methods. In one well known time of flight method, a selective saturation recovery spin echo pulse sequence hereinafter referred to as SSRSE is utilized to provide images which are enhanced in the area of flow. Although this method has proven highly successful in imaging venous flow, this method and others fail to satisfactorily distinguish arterial flow from its surrounding stationary tissue. Apparently, the pulsatile nature and high velocity of flow in arteries resulting from flow surges caused by cardiac contractions severely impairs refocusing the spins associated with the microscopic magnetic moments caused by the slice selection magnetic gradients applied during MR imaging. The impairment of refocusing by flow effects leads to irreversible dephasing of the spins. Because refocusing of the spins is severely impaired by fast flow, the image from arterial flow is not necessarily of enhanced intensity as is slower, venous flow and, therefore, arterial flow may not be distinguishable from surrounding stationary tissue. A further complication is the circumstance that arterial flow is pulsatile, i.e., the flow velocity varies over the cardiac cycle. A method of flow imaging in which different phase of synchronisation with regard to the cardiac cycle are taken into consideration is mentioned in ELECTRO MEDICA, Vol. 53, No.2 JUNE 1985 G.REUTHER et al. Phänomenalogie der kerspintomographischen Blatgefäßdarstellung Aspekte und Perspektiven , pages 58 67. Because of the lack of known methods to specifically image arterial flow, the MR image has been unable to give a reliable indication of the nature of a particular vessel. Since arterial stenosis from atherosclerotic buildup is a common pathological condition and since cardiovascular disease is the major cause of death in this country, an accurate image of arterial flow is important. Moreover, arterial stenosis commonly does not become symptomatic until it is life threatening. Because early detection of arterial stenosis may allow treatment of the blockage with drugs or other means less radical than surgery, early detection of abnormalities in arterial flow is diagnostically important. In view of the foregoing, it is the primary object of the present invention to provide an apparatus and method for accurately imaging arterial flow using MR techniques. In this connection, it is a related object of this invention to provide an apparatus and method for imaging arterial flow using MR techniques such that the arterial flow is distinguishable from venous flow. It is another object of the invention to provide an apparatus and method for creating a single MR image showing only arterial flow. Other objects and advantages of the invention will be apparent from the following detailed description and the accompanying drawings. In accordance with the invention, a plurality of microscopic magnetic spins in a first portion, preferably slice, of tissue, which is preferably substantially transverse to the direction of fluid flow, are tagged preferably, but not necessarily, saturated, i.e., their magnetization rotated into the transverse plane in a timed relationship with the cardiac cycle and then excited to produce a first MR signal. Preferably, the first portion of tissue is substantially perpendicular to the direction of fluid flow. In order to ensure arterial enhancement, a pulse sequence is utilized with an interpulse interval T The features of the invention believed to be novel are set forth with particularity in the appended claims. The invention itself, however, both as to its organization and method of operation, together with further objects and advantages thereof, may best be understood by reference to the following description taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings in which For MR imaging to monitor flow by a time of flight method, it is a well known requirement that there be a finite component of the flow velocity perpendicular to the imaging plane. For purposes of clarity, the simplest case of total perpendicular flow through the imaging plane is assumed in connection with the description of the preferred embodiment of the invention. Referring first to FIGURE 1, a sample 100, composed of living tissue, is situated in a substantially homogeneous magnetic field B₀ directed in the positive Z axis direction of a Cartesian coordinate system which is generally parallel to the direction of blood flow within a vessel 102 in the sample. In response to the applied magnetic field B₀, the microscopic magnetic moments in the slice 104 tend to line up with the field along the Z axis. As a result of the alignment of the microscopic moments, a macroscopic moment is created which is commonly referred to as the net magnetization, M not shown , parallel with the magnetic field B₀. When exposed to a magnetic field each microscopic magnetic moment experiences a precessional frequency given by the Larmor equation, Referring now to FIGS. 1, 2, and 3a, the microscopic spins in a transverse slice 104 of the sample 100 are perturbed by the application of a selective 90 RF perturbation pulse as shown in interval 1 of FIG. 2 along with a Z gradient not shown so as to redirect the net magnetization, M, for that slice to a direction transverse from the magnetic field B₀. In order not to interfere with the signal generated by the second 90 pulse, the transverse magnetization created by the initial 90 RF pulse is dispersed by a dephasing gradient not shown along the Z axis, applied following the slice selection gradient also not shown . The effect of the perturbation utilizing the 90 RF pulse and the dephasing gradient is to first rotate the net magnetization into the X Y plane i.e., the transverse plane and then to destroy any macroscopic transverse magnetization by dephasing the spins of the microscopic magnetic moments which comprise the net magnetization M. Hereinafter, nuclei which have been perturbed, as described above, will be referred to as the tagged nuclei. Since the object of the pulse in interval 1 of FIG. 2 is to tag the flowing nuclei, it will be appreciated that selective pulses of flip angle ϑ 90 may alternatively be used to perturb the net magnetization M in place of the 90 pulse shown in FIG. 2. Following the perturbation pulse in interval 1 of FIG. 2, the magnetic moments of the tagged nuclei are allowed to partially recover during interval 2 and begin to realign with the field B₀ to create a net longitudinal magnetization component in a positive Z axis direction whose final magnitude depends on the length T In interval 5, a slice selective 180 pulse is applied which generates a spin echo T The second slice selective 90 pulse detection pulse, interval 3 , administered T The prediction in Equation 1 that signal intensity steadily increases with increasing interpulse interval T Two circumstances account for a diminution of the final signal intensity as the flow velocity increases. The first circumstance is the entry into the slice of spins during interval 4 FIG. 2 These spins have not sensed the second 90 pulse in interval 3 and thus do not contribute to the signal in fact, they cause a reduction in signal intensity which is proportional to v T Referring to FIG. 4, flow through a vessel is characterized by a flow distribution wherein the velocity of the flowing fluid varies from a maximum, V In the case of slow flow in a vessel, such as blood flow through a vein, the velocity gradient v r across the pixel boundaries A and B is relatively small. Therefore, the reduction of the net magnetic moment for the pixel caused by dephasing is not significant. As a result of no significant dephasing in slow flow, image enhancement from the imaging sequence outlined in connection with FIGS. 1 3a is relatively unaffected. In contrast, arterial flow includes intervals of both slow and fast flow. During the fast flow, the velocity gradient v r across the pixel boundaries A and B becomes appreciable see FIG. 3b . Consequently, the dephasing of spins significantly reduces the net magnetization M within the pixel, thereby causing a correspondingly significant reduction in enhancement of the arterial flow image. In fact, arterial signal intensity is often so low that it is difficult to distinguish from other low intensity signals such as those arising from muscle tissue. Arterial flow is not only much faster on the average than venous flow, it is also pulsatile, i.e., the flow rate varies throughout the cardiac cycle. The fast arterial flow and its pulsatile nature explain the very low signal intensity for arterial flow observed with virtually all imaging techniques. In accordance with the invention enhancement of arterial flow is made possible for MR imaging methods such as time of flight based spin echo imaging methods such as SSRSE by synchronizing data acquisition to the cardiac cycle and by choosing an appropriate delay T In keeping with the invention, the foregoing approach is used in connection with subtracted images collected by the same SSRSE sequence but differing in their acquisition delays T The manner in which the method of the invention may be utilized to obtain images of an object depicting blood flow will be undertaken with reference to FIGS. 6 and 7. In order to simplify FIGS. 6 and 7, the homogeneous magnetic field B₀ is not separately depicted in each of these figures the field gradients are, however, illustrated in Fig. 7. In the preferred embodiment, the invention, which is described in general terms with reference to FIG. 6, is preferably practiced with the pulse sequence depicted in FIG. 7 and which is known as spin warp imaging. Spin warp imaging is a special case of the two dimensional Fourier transform 2DFT phase encoding method of MR imaging. Typically, in spin warp imaging, a series of projections is obtained by sampling a signal m times and repeating this process for n different values of the phase encoding gradient. Usually a spin echo is created which is collected at t T In the timing diagrams of FIGS. 6a e, the invention is described in general terms such that the RF pulse sequence and the responsive MR signal are symbolized by a single square wave pulse in order to indicate the relative location in time of the pulse sequence and data acquisition with respect to blood flow. Because the cardiac cycle is directly related to the cycle of arterial blood flow, the MR pulse sequence is as a practical matter referenced to the electrical potential of the heart. An MR image having a distinct intensity for arterial flow is provided by gating the RF pulse sequence and the associated data acquisition to the cardiac electrical potential or ECG signal such that the pulse sequence and acquisition data occur at a predetermined time in the cycle of arterial flow between slow and fast flow. Although two successive cycles of arterial flow are shown in FIGS. 6a e to illustrate the cyclic nature of the flow, only the first cycle will be discussed in detail. The electrical potential of the heart appears in a three component complex, P, QRS and T in FIG. 6a. The P wave interval 1 corresponds to the electrical potential of the SA node of the heart which initiates a cardiac cycle. The QRS waveform intervals 1 and 2 generally corresponds to the ventricular contraction which initiates the propagation of fast flow through the artery. Ventricular relaxation is generally associated with the T wave intervals 3 and 4 . Because the R wave of the QRS waveform is the most distinct wave in the ECG signal and because it is directly related to the cyclic period for the pulsatile flow in an artery, the synchronization of the SSRSE sequence is preferably based on the R wave. The occurrence of the R wave triggers the beginning of an acquisition cycle by first delaying for the time period T By selecting an appropriate delay T In contrast to the enhanced image obtained by synchronizing data acquisition with slow arterial flow, an arterial image of reduced intensity is obtained when the RF pulse sequence and data acquisition occur at a time of fast flow. With an acquisition delay T Because of the different location in the flow cycle of data acquisition, the first and second images will be characterized by different arterial signal amplitude. Because other areas are stationary or have constant, non cyclical flow such as veins , the subtraction of one image from the other, S As an alternative to the sequential collection of full sets of S Turning to the detailed illustration of the SSRSE pulse sequence in FIG. 7 which is preferred in this invention, intervals 1 and 2 include the P, QRS and T waveforms of the cardiac cyle discussed in connection with FIGS. 6a e. Interval 2 corresponds to the acquisition delay T The direction of the magnetic field gradient G The effect of the G The pulse sequence comprising intervals 2 through 9 depicted in FIG. 7 is repeated, changing the amplitude of gradient G Referring to FIG. 8, overall system operation is under the control of a computer system generally designated 200 which includes a main computer 201, such as a Data General MV4000. The computer 201 has associated therewith an interface 202 through which a plurality of peripheral devices and other MR system components are coupled. Among the peripheral devices which may be utilized under the direction of the main computer 201 is a magnetic tape drive 204 for archiving patient data and images to magnetic tape. Processed patient data may also be stored in an image disk storage device 210. An array processor 206 is utilized for pre processing data and data reconstruction. In order to provide interactive image display manipulation such as magnification, image subtraction and gray scale adjustment, an image processor 208 is joined to the main computer 201 via interface 202. The computer system 200 is provided with a means to store raw unreconstructed image data utilizing a disk storage system 212. An operator console 216 is also coupled to the computer 201 via the interface 202 and provides the operator with the means to input data pertinent to a patient study as well as additional data necessary for proper MR system operation, such as initiating and terminating scans. The operator console may also include a CRT for displaying images stored on disks or magnetic tape. Control over the MR system is exercised by means of control and gradient amplifier systems 218 and 228, respectively. The computer 201 communicates with the system control 218 by way of a conventional digital communication network 203 such as an Ethernet network in a manner well known to those skilled in the art. A particular system control suitable for the illustrated MR system is that employed by the SIGNA MR system, manufactured by General Electric Company, Medical Systems Group, Milwaukee, Wisconsin. The system control 218 includes several subsystems such as the pulse control module 220 commonly referred to as PCM , a radio frequency transceiver 222, a status and control module 224 commonly referred to as SCM , and the power supplies 226 necessary to energize the components of the system control 218. In response to control signals from the main computer 201, the PCM generates digital timing and control signals such as the current waveforms used for gradient coil excitation, as well as RF envelope waveforms utilized in the transceiver 222 for modulating RF pulses. The current waveforms from the PCM 220 are applied to the gradient amplifier system 228 generally comprising G In a manner well known to those skilled in the art, the gradient magnetic fields G The gradient coil assembly 236 and the RF transmit and receive coils 238 are mounted within the bore of the magnet in the main magnet assembly 246 utilized to produce the polarizing magnetic field B₀. The magnet in the main magnet assembly 246 also surrounds the patient alignment system 248, a shim coil power supply 240 and a main magnet power supply 242. The shim power supply 240 is utilized to energize shim coils not shown associated with the main magnet assembly 246 and which are used to correct inhomogeneities in the polarizing magnetic field B₀. The patient alignment system 248 operates in combination with a patient cradle and transport system 250 and patient positioning system 251 in a well known manner. To minimize interference from external sources, the MR system components including the main magnet assembly 246, the gradient coil assembly 236, and the RF transmit and receive coils 238, as well as the associated power supplies and patient handling devices, are enclosed in an RF shielded room 244. The shielding is generally provided by a copper or aluminum screen network which enclosed the entire room. The screen network serves to contain the RF signals generated by the system, while shielding the system from RF signals generated outside the room. For isolating the RF signals, a bi directional attenuation of approximately 80db in the frequency range of operation, 10MH In keeping with the invention, the MR system of FIG. 8 includes an ECG sensor 252 within the RF shielded room 244 for providing an electrocardiogram signal from the patient for use in triggering or gating the pulse sequence. The ECG signal from the ECG sensor 252 supplies to the SCM 224, via the transceiver 222, trigger pulses which synchronize the patient s arterial flow with the scanning time associated with the MR pulse sequence. Preferably, the ECG sensor 252 and the transceiver 222 provide a R wave detected pulse of the ECG signal to the SCM 224. The SCM 224 uses this trigger signal to initiate the pulse sequence at the PCM 220. While diagnostic quality ECG signals are not required, the ECG signal must display a recognizable QRS complex and give some indication of the R wave. Therefore, a commercially available sensor of good quality may be used for example, a possible sensor is Model 78351A, manufactured by Hewlett Packard Company of Waltham, Massachusetts. Of course, the ECG sensor 252 should include a filter arrangement for eliminating interference signals from sources such as the magnetic gradients and or RF interference. As with other electrical signals passing through the screen room, the electrical signal from the ECG sensor 252 must pass through an 80db filter for frequencies between 10 MHz 80 MHz. There should be negligible insertion loss for signal frequencies below 100 hertz. The cable link 254 from the ECG sensor 252 to the system control 218 should be limited in length to 45.72m 150 feet . For visualization of the ECG signal, a pre amp not shown located inside the ECG sensor 252 may transmit ECG signals to a ECG display also not shown . The trigger signal from the ECG sensor 252 to the SCM 224 is a R wave detection pulse TTL . A timing circuit within the SCM 224 is responsive to the ECG sensor 252 for instituting the acquisition delay T The SCM 224 controls the delay period T In order to provide adjustability for the delays T From the foregoing, it will be appreciated that, in accordance with the invention, an apparatus and a method are provided to detect arterial blood flow and to provide a high contrast MR image of the flow. The method is useful in making measurements of flowing blood in MR images for which data may be collected by a variety of MR imaging techniques. While this invention has been described with reference to particular embodiments and examples, other modifications and variations will occur to those skilled in the art in view of the above teachings. Accordingly, it should be understood that within the scope of the appended claims the invention may be practiced otherwise than is specifically described.