# Method of manufacturing multi layer resin material

## Claims
Verfahren zur Herstellung eines Mehrschichtkunstharzmaterials, das aufweist

## Description
The present invention relates to a method of manufacturing a multi layer resin material according to the preamble of claim 1 US A 3909170 . A multi layer resin sheet or film has heretofore been produced by kneading and melting a plurality of different kinds of resins using a plurality of extrusion machines and then conjointly extruding the kneaded resins together from a die in the shape of a multi layer structure. One example of known multi layer resin materials is composed of an inner layer made of a gas barrier resin, for example, a resin having low oxygen permeability such as ethylene vinyl alcohol copolymer, and an outer layer made of a polyolefin resin which may be bonded to the inner layer by means of an adhesive resin, if necessary. In the manufacture of a multi layer resin material, the thickness of each of the resin layers must be uniform over the entire width of the material, and it is also necessary to trim both lateral edges of the multi layer resin material in order to obtain a product having a uniform thickness and width. When a multi layer resin material is stretched using a tenter as a secondary stretching process, the edge portions of this material which are grasped by the chucks of the tenter are rejected as scrap. If the product is made of a single kind of resin, this scrap can he re used by processing it through a scrap grinder. In the case of a multi layer resin material, however, the scrap is a laminate of different kinds of resins which are united together over their entire widths, and it is, therefore, difficult to re use that scrap. Multi layer resin materials which are composed of resins that differ in heat resistance are particularly difficult to re use and, therefore, involve the problem of wasteful use of resources and increases in costs. In view of the above described circumstances, there have already been proposed the following two methods as means for enabling a multi layer material extruded from a die to have lateral edge portions which are virtually completely made of only an outer layer resin 1 the die is specially designed for the above described purposes disclosed in Japanese Patent Publication Nos. 5738 1974, 26216 1982, 3809 1983 and 1179 1984 and 2 an inner layer resin is wrapped or encircled by an outer layer resin within a feed block disclosed in Japanese Patent Publication No. 26216 1982 . These proposed methods suffer, however, from the following disadvantages. With the method 1 , the die structure is complicated, and it is not possible to satisfactorily cope with changes in the kinds of resins employed, the layer thickness ratio, operating conditions and so forth. With the method 2 , it is difficult to make uniform the thickness distribution of each of the resin layers over the entire width and it is also difficult to satisfactorily form a single resin layer at each lateral edge. From US A 3,909,170, a method for manufacturing a multi layer resin material is known, comprising the following steps According to the method of US A 3,909,170, the final shape of the multi layer structure can only be obtained after once deforming the mentioned triple layered resin which has a round configuration to a shape being defined by two flat members. This requires the formation of the circular round section in order to add the lateral third polymer edge. In view of this deformation, the process of US A 3,909,170 leads to very spacious edges to be removed after extruding of the multi layer structure. This leads to increased waste during the manufacturing process. It is, therefore, an object of the present invention to provide a method of manufacturing a multi layered resin material with which rather thin lateral edges of a third polymer are achievable to cover the exposed edges of a first multi layer structure. This object is achieved by the characterizing features of claim 1. According to only small trimmings to be cut from the edge portions of the product, it is possible to avoid wasteful use of resources and to reduce material costs. Since the thickness distribution of each layer in the widthwise direction of the product is uniform, no stress concentration occurs even when the product is stretched by a tenter as a secondary stretching process, and it is possible to obtain desired characteristics. In addition, it is possible to satisfactorily cope with changes in operating conditions. The subclaims contain preferred embodiments of the present invention. Fig. 1 shows a multi layer resin material manufacturing apparatus to which the method of the present invention is applied. The apparatus is adapted to produce a multi layer resin sheet composed of five layers and made of three kinds of resin, that is, an inner layer resin A, an outer layer resin B and an adhesive resin C, as shown in Fig. 3. Referring to Fig. 1, the reference numeral 1 denotes a first extruder for the inner layer resin A, 2 a second extruder for the outer layer resin B, and 3 a third extruder for the adhesive resin C. The resins A, B and C which are respectively extruded by these extruders 1, 2 and 3 are sent to a feed block 4 where they are laid up one another as they move in the direction of the multi layer resin material to be produced, and are then discharged in the shape of a multi layer resin sheet from a slit of a T die 5. The sheet thus discharged from the T die 5 has its lateral edge portions trimmed off by a cutter 6, thereby shaping the sheet so as to have a predetermined width. The trimmings cut by the cutter 6 are ground up by a grinder 7 and then are sent to the second extruder 2 for re use. The reference numeral 5A in Fig. 1 denotes a cooling roll. Examples of resins which can be employed as the inner layer resin A include ethylene vinyl alcohol copolymers a saponified ethylene vinyl acetate copolymer , polyvinylidene chloride, polyvinyl chloride, polyvinyl chloride vinylidene chloride copolymer, polyvinyl alcohol, polyamide resins and polyacrylonitrile resins. As the outer layer resin B, a polyolefin polypropylene, polyethylene, an ethylene α olefin copolymer or a mixture thereof can be employed. In this case, 5 to 300 parts by weight of a filler, such as talc, calcium carbonate, silica or titanium oxide, can be added to 100 parts by weight of the resins selected to form a multi layer resin material. It is also possible to add an oxidation inhibitor, an ultraviolet absorber, an antistatic agent, a lubricant and a coloring agent to each resin for each layer, according to need. As the adhesive resin C, a modified polyolefin, an ionomer, etc. can be employed. Examples of modified polyolefins include polyolefins modified with unsaturated carboxylic acids or their derivatives, such as acrylic acid, methacrylic acid, maleic acid, fumaric acid, maleic anhydride, methyl acrylate, methyl methacrylate, maleic acid monoethyl ester, acrylamide, maleimide and sodium acrylate. The content of the unsaturated carboxylic acid or derivative in a selected modified polyolefin ranges from 0.001 to 15wt , preferably from 0.005 to 10wt . A blend of a modified polyolefin and an unmodified polyolefin which is the same as or different from this modified polyolefin can be employed. Fig. 2 shows the resin flow paths which are formed inside the feed block 4. As illustrated, inside the feed block 4 are formed a first flow path 11 which communicates with the first extruder 1, a second flow path 12 communicating with the second extruder 2, and a third flow path 13 communicating with the third extruder 3. The first flow path 11 extends straight toward one side of the feed block 4 and then, inside said feed block, it is bent at a right angle so as to extend toward the inlet of the T die 5. The third flow path 13 extends toward the inside of the feed block 4 from the side thereof which is opposite to the side from which the first flow path 11 extends. The third flow path 13 is branched into upper and lower flow paths 13A and 13B that extend parallel to each other above and below the first flow path 11, and are then joined to the upper and lower sides, respectively, of the first flow path 11 on the input end of the feed block 4. The second flow path 12 extends toward the inside of the feed block 4 from an end thereof which is orthogonal to the sides from which the first and third flow paths 11 and 13 extend, respectively. The second flow path 12 is branched into upper and lower flow paths 12A and 12B that extend parallel to each other above and below the first flow path 11, and are then joined to the upper and lower sides, respectively, of the first and third flow paths 11 and 13 at a position which is slightly offset downstream as viewed in the resin feed direction from the position at which the first and third flow paths 11 and 13 join together. An auxiliary flow path 15 communicates with the lower flow path 12B. The auxiliary flow path 15 extends parallel to the combined flow path 14 of the three different resins that were fed through the flow paths 11, 12 and 13 and then extends upwardly toward the flow path 14. The auxiliary flow path 15 is branched into flow paths 15A and 15B which extend toward opposite sides of the joint flow path 14, and are then joined to said opposite sides, respectively, of the flow path 14 in the terminating end section of the feed block 4, that is, at a position which immediately precedes the inlet of the die 5. With this arrangement, the inner layer resin A, the outer layer resin B and the adhesive resin C are respectively supplied to the first, second and third flow paths 11, 12 and 13. In consequence, these resins A, B and C are laminated one upon another in the thickness direction to form a multi layer resin material at the input end section of the feed block 4. The resin B, which serves as the auxiliary resin and which is supplied through the auxiliary flow path 15, is united to opposite sides of the multi layer resin material in the terminating end section of the feed block 4, that is, at a position immediately preceding the inlet of the die 5. The multi layer resin material which has passed through the feed block 4 in this way is then extruded from the T die 5 in the shape of a sheet and is discharged from the slit. The multi layer resin sheet discharged from the T die 5 has both lateral edges thereof cut by the cutter 6 so that said sheet has a predetermined width. The trimmings of the sheet cut by the cutter 6 are ground in the grinder 7 and then sent to the second extruder 2 for re use. The trimmings consist essentially of the B resin. Thus, according to this embodiment, an auxiliary resin is united to both lateral edges of the three laminated resins in the terminating end section of the feed block 4. It is therefore possible to obtain a multi layer resin material whose lateral edges are virtually made of a single resin without complicating the structure of the die 5. Accordingly, the trimmings cut from the edges of the extruded multi layer resin material can be re used. As a result, it is possible to avoid wasteful use of resources and reduce production costs. Since the thickness distribution of each layer is uniform over the entire width of the film or sheet product, no stress concentration occurs even when the product is stretched by a tenter as a secondary stretching process, so that a product having the desired characteristics can be obtained. In addition, there is no adverse effect on the product quality even when the operating conditions change. This is clear from an experimental example in which a multi layer resin sheet was actually produced by the apparatus shown in Fig. 1. In the experiment, an ethylene vinyl alcohol copolymer EVAL registered trademark , EP F101, manufactured by Kabushiki Kaisha Kurare, with an ethylene content of 32mol and a melt index of 1.3g 10min. was employed as the inner layer resin A, a polypropylene resin Idemitsu Polypro, E100G, manufactured by Idemitsu Petrochemical Co., Ltd. with a melt index of 0.6g 10min. was employed as the outer layer resin B and was also employed as the auxiliary resin, and a maleic anhydride modified polypropylene Idemitsu Polytac registered trademark , E100, manufactured by Idemitsu Petrochemical Co., Ltd. was employed as the adhesive resin C. These resins were melted and kneaded in the extruders 1, 2 and 3, respectively, and then were laminated one upon another to form a resin material with a multi layer structure within the feed block 4. The multi layer resin material was then extruded from the die 5 to obtain a sheet a width of 600mm having five layers and made of three different kinds of resin. The sheet trimmings were ground by the grinder 7, and the entire amount about 15 of the thereby obtained ground resin was mixed with the polypropylene resin as a raw material for re use. The experiment showed that no defect occurred in the product sheet even after a continuous operation for 10 hours. In addition, each of the layers had an excellent uniform thickness distribution over the entire width of the product sheet. Although the above described embodiment exemplifies a method of manufacturing a multi layer resin sheet having five layers and made of three different kinds of resin, the method of the present invention may widely be applied to the manufacture of a multi layer resin sheet made of two or more kinds of thermoplastic resins. For example, employment of a feed block as shown in Fig. 4 enables manufacture of a multi layer resin sheet having three layers consisting of two kinds of resin, such as that shown in Fig. 5. In the feed block shown in Fig. 4, the third flow path 13 is omitted, while the auxiliary flow path 15 communicates with the third extruder 13. A resin B which is similar to the outer layer resin B is supplied through the auxiliary flow path 15. This also provides advantageous effects similar to those offered by the above described embodiment. If the auxiliary flow path 15 communicates with the second flow path 12 at a position which is on the upstream side of the branching point of the flow path 12 as shown in Fig. 6, it is possible to obtain a multi layer resin sheet such as that shown in Fig. 7. This arrangement has the advantage that the third extruder 3 becomes unnecessary. Although description of a means for appropriately adjusting the feed rate of each resin has not been made for the illustrated examples, the feed rate of each resin can be adjusted in a smooth uniform manner in accordance with the desired thickness thereof in the product. The feed rate of the resin which is supplied to the feed block 4 from the auxiliary flow path 15 can be controlled in accordance with the respective feed rates of the inner and outer layer resins. If a regulating valve or other similar means is provided at a desired position in the auxiliary flow path 15, the flow path 15 can be controlled independently of the flow paths for the inner and outer layer resins. As has been described above, it is possible, according to the present invention, to provide a method of manufacturing a multi layer resin material which enables trimmings of a product to be re used without complicating the die structure and permits each layer to have a highly uniform thickness distribution over the entire width of the product and which is also capable of coping with changes in operating conditions over a wide range.