# Improvements in and relating to materials handling.

## Abstract
The working surface of a roller primarily intended for the handling of sheet material at a relatively high temperature and or having an easily damaged surface finish is constituted by expanded vermiculite particles.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A roller having a working surface characterised in that it is constituted by expanded exfoliated vermiculite particles. 2. A roller according to Claim 1 further characterised in that it comprises a plurality of annuli of vermiculite assembled together side by side to form a tube. 3. A roller according to Claim 2 characterised in that the tube is mounted on a supporting mandrel provided with clamping means for locating and retaining the annuli. 4. A roller according to any preceding Claim characterised in that the annuli are moulded or formed from a mix of expanded vermiculite particles and binder. 5. A roller according to any preceding Claim characterised in that the binder is a water soluble silicate. 6. A roller according to Claim 4 or Claim 5 characterised in that the binder constitutes up to about 10 by weight of the final product.

## Description
Improvements in and relating to materials handlingField of the inventionThe invention relates to the handling of sheet materials.In particular, it is concerned with rollers for forwarding and or handling sheet materials at elevated temperatures.Prior artBoth sheet glass and sheet steel production processes are carried out at elevated temperatures. For example, sheet steel may emerge from an annealing furnace at up to 1000 C. In addition to this, both glass and steel, such as highly polished stainless steel, are vulnerable to surface scratching, especially when hot. Accordingly, the surface properties and heat resistance of conveyor rollers are extremely important indeed.It is common practice to make rolls for such use from an asbestos paper or board product, by cutting out a large number of annuli and assembling them side by side to make E tube. This tube is then compressed axially whilst on a mandrel, prior to clamping up to form a roller with an asbestos surface. This latte is ground and or polished to produce a finished roller.Asbestos is a particularly preferred material for this because it has good thermal properties allied to a degree of softness such that little or no damage is caused to the sheet product passing over it.It has been proposed to replace asbestos paper board in this application by non asbestos paper board. It has also been proposed to use a roller with a ceramics surface.However, non asbestos papers boards prove to have a limited life at the temperatures usually encountered. Ceramic fares very much better, but is too abrasive for most applications.Disclosure of the inventionIn its broadest aspect, the invention comprises a roller whose working surface is constituted by expanded exfoliated vermiculite particles and a binder. WWorking surface means all that part of the roller surface which sheet material may contact in passage over the roller.It is particularly preferred that the roller should comprise a plurality of annuli moulded or formed from vermiculite and assembled together side by side to form a tube. This tube is preferably mounted on a supporting mandrel provided with clamping means for locating and retaining the annuli.The annuli are preferably moulded or formed from a mix of expanded vermiculite particles and the binder. It will be understood that vermiculite in this present context includes minerals of similar characteristics and behaviour. The annuli may be made by press mouldings which facilitates good control of the product density and whilst the surface finish of press moulded products is good, it will usually be necessary to apply a light grinding treatment to the roller surface before use. This is in order to compensate for any dimensional and or locational errors between the individual annuli when assembled as a tube.Sufficient product integrity can usually be achieved simply by pressing vermiculite particles together. However, if even greater integrity is desired then the vermiculite can be mixed with a sodium silicate binder, the latter constituting about 5 by weight of the final product. However, other particle sizes and or binder proportions may be used to meet the requirements of a particular end use.As is well known there are at least two ways of producing expanded vermiculite these may be broadly described as the thermal method and the electrolytic method. The end products have very different physical properties and in the case of the latter method, the product exhibits better structural integrity in response to pressing in the absence of a binder.If a binder is used, it is preferably capable of withstanding high temperatures. Water soluble silicates are particular preferred sodium silicate can be used to at least 8000C and potassium silicate at even higher temperatures. Expanded vermiculite is available in several grades, good results have been achieved by use of a relatively course grade, with an average particle size of the order of 5 7 mm.