# FLAME RETARDANT POLYMER COMPOSITIONS

## Claims
Feuerhemmende Polymerzusammensetzungen, mit nichtlinearen chemischen Strukturen, die sich bei der Reaktion von N Tribromphenylmaleimid, mit oder ohne Zugabe von Comonomeren, mit einem vorgebildeten Hauptketten Polymer ergeben, das aus der Gruppe ausgewählt ist, die aus Polystyrol, Polyolefinen, Polyamiden, Kautschuken, Polyestern, Acrylen, Polymerdienen und Gemischen oder Copolymeren davon besteht, wobei die feuerhemmenden Polymerzusammensetzungen mindestens 1,2 Gewichtsprozent Brom enthalten.

## Description
The present invention relates to flame retardant polymer compositions. More particularly the invention relates to polymer compositions comprising non linear structural configurations which contain bromo derivatives of N phenylmaleimide. It is known that generally, normally flammable polymers can be rendered flame retardant by the incorporation of halogenated organic compounds. It is also recognized that not all halogenated organic compounds are necessarily useful as flame retardants in all the polymeric compositions which require flame retardation. Consequently, the effectiveness of halogen containing organic materials intended for use as fire retardants is unpredictable. Some materials release their halogen either too early or too late in the combustion process to provide the degree of fire protection required. Some of the halogenated compounds which have been proposed for use as flame retardants, have one or more of the following disadvantages volatility, instability towards decomposition and or discoloration at processing temperatures, inadequate efficiency, incompatibility and UV instability. Some of the above disadvantages make a compound less desirable for use as flame retardant and others actually prevent it from having any practical utility for such applications. The general lack of success of the prior art in producing a wide spectrum flame retardant reagent, or an optimal material for even a more limited range of applicability, is at least partially due to the tendency of the flame retardant to degrade at least one of the properties of the blend produced while improving another. For instance, it has been found that compounds containing cycloaliphatic bromine are sometimes more efficient than other halogenated compounds, but these compounds have poor stability at the processing temperatures of some polymers and frequently have other disadvantages, such as volatility, toxicity and imcompatibility. It is clearly advantageous that a single flame retardant additive find use in a large number of applications. It is well known that halogenated atoms bonded into the polymeric chain, can be efficient or inefficient depending not only on their concentration in the macromolocule, but also on their position. Also, halogen containing compounds will behave differently when they are used in the additive mode, i.e. simply admixed into the polymeric substrate, or chemically bonded into the polymeric chain. Halo derivatives of N phenylmaleimide are described in CS Patent No. 171,355 filed on November 27, 1974 and CS Patent No 173,355 filed on December 16, 1974 both published in 1979, as new compounds which are insoluble in water and aliphatic hydrocarbons, some being characterized by their high halogen content. According to CS Patent No. 171,593 the halo derivatives of N phenylmaleimide are suggested to be useful as comonomers with various monomers such as vinyl acetate, acrylonitrile, styrene, in the preparation of thermally resistant polymeric materials. The polymers described possess a linear structure and are prepared from the monomers taken in such a ratio that the halogen content of the polymers would be between 16 to 25 by weight. In a review written by the inventors of the above CS Patents J.Polym.Sci.Pol.Chem.Ed. 14, 2587 1978 and 17, 2587 1979 it is mentioned that mono and polyhalophenylmaleimides have a strong tendency to form alternating copolymers with styrene and butadiene, while by themselves they are only hardly polymerizable. Of these alternating copolymers, the system with styrene was most studied. According to the results published Eur.Polym. J.,Vol.14, 219 1978 tribromophenylmaleimide copolymers with styrene were found to undergo spontaneous decomposition at 352 degrees C whereas polystyrene decomposes at 280 degrees C. These results support their statement on the thermal resistance of these copolymers. They further stipulate that the presence of the imide monomeric unit, in the alternating polymer, retards the depolymerization of the polymer chain. The result of this finding is that less of the combustible volatile hydrocarbon will be released under thermal stress. Of the various halogen containing comonomers examined by them, tribromophenylmaleimide was found to produce the least amount of HX, commonly regarded to be the agent responsible for flame retardation by halogen containing compounds. More bromine was found in the thermolized residue than in the starting copolymer. The conclusion drawn by these workers is clear from their CS Patent No. 171,593, where only the chloro derivative is stated for use as comonomer in polymeric materials for fire retardation. It is well known that halogen containing compounds generally behave differently when the incorporation is in such a manner that the halogen atom is incorporated in units of the polymeric backbone or in a pendant side chain. It is thought that pendant side chains are sometimes lost under stress conditions and with them the fire retardant properties. The general conclusion is that one cannot predict a priori that a halogen containing component incorporated into a macromolecule will be efficient or not. This is true even for halogens in the backbone units but distributed differently. This is clearly stated also by the inventors of the above two CS Patents in a paper discussing the thermogravimetric analyses of copolymers of styrene with halogenated N phenylmaleimide published in Europ. Polymer J., Vol. 13, 509 513, 1977 According to Japanes Kokai 78, 133298 Cf. C.A. 90, 104852 polyols are treated with less than an equivalent amount of toluene diisocyanate and then mixed with other diisocyanate or polyisocyanate compounds, producing low volatile polyisocyanate compounds. It has now been found that the tribromoderivative of N phenylmaleimide is amenable to the production of non linear polymeric configurations, in which this bromo derivative is contained in pendant side chains or crosslinks, by its reaction with various preformed polymers, imparting to them fire retardant properties. Thus the invention consists of fire retardant polymer compositions comprising non linear structural configurations, which result from reacting N tribromo phenylmaleimide with or without comonomers with a preformed backbone polymer selected from the group consisting of polyolefins, polystyrene, rubbers, polyesters, polyamides, acrylics, polymeric dienes and mixtures or copolymers thereof, said fire retardant compositions containing at least 1.2 by weight bromine. The above preformed backbone polymers may also contain common substituents. Non linear structural configurations as used in the present specification, and as described above, are known in the art as graft copolymers. The non linear polymeric compositions of this invention are obtained either by graft polymerization or cross linking with N tribromophenylmaleimide, hereafter referred, for the sake of brevity, by the term TBPMI. The graft polymers have either TBPMI or TBPMI containing side chains bonded onto a preformed polymeric backbone which does not contain TBPMI. The crosslinked polymer will be obtained by the formation of chemical links containing TBPMI between the preformed polymer chains which do not contain TBPMI. The nature of the final compositions will be determined by the relative proportions of the constituents TBPMI, comonomers and the respective preformed backbone polymer and the grafting technique employed actually a wide variety of novel compositions can be obtained. In order to optimize the best combination of good processing and performance properties e.g. high tensile strength , it is preferred to obtain products containing from 2 to 60 by weight of TBPMI and the balance of the preformed backbone polymer with or without other polymerizable monomers, wherein the preformed backbone polymer must be no less than 4 of the total resin. The inventors explain the excellent fire retardancy properties of TBMPI, when located in the side chains and crosslinkinks of graft polymers, by the relative weakness of the bonds of such pendant groups. These pendant groups are detached under thermal stress, thereby injecting volatile bromine moieties into the vapor phase. This mechanism stands in strong contrast with the high thermal resistance mentioned to exist by the Czechoslovakian authors cited in the preamble of the present specification when TBPMI is present in linear structural copolymers. The present invention is particularly related to TBPMI, although one may conceive to utilize other bromine derivatives of N phenylmaleimide. The compositions according to the present invention may be prepared by any of the conventional techniques of free radical grafting or crosslinking processes used, e.g. radiation induced or chemically induced and by any of the technologies commonly used such as bulk, solution, emulsion or aqueous suspension. One of the grafting reaction procedures for the above process is grafting in an aqueous medium which enables a ready dissipation of the heat of the reaction and avoids the use of expensive solvent recovery apparatus. The emulsion polymerization in aqueous medium is effected by reacting the ingredients dispersed in water in the presence of a surface active agent such as salts of a long chain alkyl sulfate. The temperatures normally used lie between 20 to 100 degrees C and preferably between 25 to 75 degrees C. The reaction between the preformed backbone polymer and TBPMI with or without additional polymerizable monomers, may be initiated as stated above by any suitable means which produces free radicals, but may often be effected in the presence of a free radical yielding initiator active at the polymerization temperature. Initiation may also be induced by radiation, or known reagents such as azo compounds e.g.nitriles and organic and inorganic peroxides such as lauroyl peroxide, dicumyl peroxide, 2.5 ditert butylperoxy 2,5 dimethylhexyne 3, persulfates, hydrogen peroxide, hydroperoxides, or sulfur in case of rubber as the preformed backbone polymer and other compounds containing the peroxide linkage. Whereas the system according to the present invention involves a graft polymerization, between a preformed polymer and TBPMI, one may conceive to incorporate cross linking activators which will further enhance the efficiency of the grafting reaction. The crosslinking density will depend on the reaction conditions and the ratio between the preformed polymer, TBPMI, cross linking activator, other monomers when used, as well as on the presence of reactive groups in the preformed polymer. A preferred cross linking activator is triallyl cyanurate. The type of initiator and its concentration, the chemical nature cyan of the preformed polymer,e.g.the presence of the steric hindrance,are important factors which will influence the efficiency of the grafting reaction. These factors are fully described in the literature and a person skilled in the art after reading this specification will be able to select the factor s applicable to the specific system of concern. Although the flame retardant polymer compositions obtained according to the present invention are by themselves very efficent, one may further enhance their effectiveness by including one or more synergists conventionally used in flame retardation. These synergistic compounds include oxides, sulfides or organic salts of antimony, boron, arsenic or zinc borate. The preferred synergistic compound for use in the compositions of this invention is antimony trioxide. It was found that the new non linear compositions obtained by the reaction of preformed polymers with TBPMI, have improved important mechanical properties. For example it has been found that TBPMI produces crosslinked compositions with various types of polyethylene, which compositions are superior to those obtained with other known fire retardants consisting of bromine containing compounds such as decabromodiphenyl ether or brominated bisimides so called BT 93 . In the following Table 1 are summarized the comparative results of some of the properties for such compositions based on 100 parts of high density polyethylene. The cross linking was carried out at 200 degrees Celsius using 1 part of 2,5 di tert butylperoxy 2,5 dimethylhexyne 3 as catalyst in each case. In all these experiments antimony oxide synergist was added in the final formulations. As seen in the above Table 1, the extent of crosslinking, as shown by the gel content, using the compositions according to the present invention based on TBPMI, is much higher than for the decabromodiphenyl ether and even better than the brominated bisimide which is in particular recommended for polyethylene. The LOI values as well as the mechanical properties, which are better for the compositions according to the present invention, show their advantage over other compositions with known bromine compounds as fire retardant reagents. Similar improvements are obtained using TBPMI based flame retardant compositions with low density polyethylene as the base polymer. Table 2 compares the properties of such compositions based on 100 parts low density polyetylene with TBPMI and decabromodiphenyl ether, both systems reacted at 150 degrees C in the presence of 4 parts of dicumyl peroxide as catalyst. The results given in Table 2 clearly show that the extent of crosslinking, expressed as percentage of gel, is higher with the compositions according to the present invention than those with decabromodiphenyl ether. The mechanical properties tensile strength and tensile modulus are also better with the compositions according to the present invention than those obtained with decabromodiphenyl ether. The mechanical properties mentioned in Tables 1 and 2, were determined for plates of polyethylene crosslinked with TBPMI according to the present invention, said plates being prepared as follows An amount of 30 g of the mixture of compositions mentioned above was introduced into the closed chamber of a Brabender internal mixer heated and maintained at 130 degrees C. The two mixing heads of the Brabender were allowed to turn at a speed of 20 rpm throughout each experiment and the consequent torque was registered on a graph versus the time. The mixture was taken out from the Brabender and pressed between the two plates of a hydraulic press and allowed to crosslink during ten minutes at 210 degrees C. The gel contents were measured according to ASTM D 2765 68 using xylene. Another example of a non linear polymer found advantageously flame retarded by TBPMI, is It was found that in accordance with the present invention, TBPMI imparts an excellent flame retardancy to ABS resins. Blooming is not a problem with TBPMI incorporated into this branched polymer and good overall physical properties are obtainable. Example 1 is an ABS formulation with the flame retardant reagent according to the present invention and Example 2 without the reagent, being presented for comparison purposes. In a test tube the following reagents were introduced The contents of the test tube were thoroughly mixed and purged with nitrogen. After closing the test tube, it was heated at 65 degrees C for about 4 hours and then for an additional period of 12 hours at 100 degrees C. The test tube was broken and the polymerized mass was ground. Its bromine content was 15 . From the ground material a plate was pressed from which specimens were cut, which had an LOI value of 23.3. A blank experiment was carried out for comparison purposes. The same procedure was used as in Example 1, with the same amounts of reagents but with the omission of the flame retardant reagent. The specimen had an LOI value of only 17.9. Polystyrene is another resin found to be rendered flame retardant by grafting onto it TBPMI. As known, styrene based resins are widely used and make up a significant part of the plastic industry. One great deficiency of styrenic resins is their flammability, and there is an ever increasing awareness and interest in providing styrene based polymers which possess flame retardancy. TBPMI was grafted onto high impact polystyrene, on a Brabender. instrument using two compositions containing different amounts of bromine Table 3 . Grafting is shown by the increase in the torque. The conditions in the Brabender were temperature 200 degrees C and the mixing rolls had a speed of 40 rpm. The compositions tested were prepared with the use of peroxide XL 130 produced by Pennwalt . The results clearly show the increase of torque imparted by grafting with TBPMI. The product of Exp. 1 was dissolved in tetrahydrofuran and the Sb₂O₃ which precipitated was filtered off. Chromatographic analysis showed only traces of TBPMI monomer to be present. Essentially all of that initially introduced was therefore grafted onto the HIPS resin. Similar results were obtained with ABS resin. The experiments were performed in the same manner and are summarized in the following Table 4. The same procedure as described in Example was used with the following mixture The resulting polymer contained 16 bromine and had an LOI of 24.5. 100 parts of natural rubber were blended with 30 parts of TBPMI and irradiated at room temperature with 25 megarads from a Co⁶⁰ source. The resulting vulcanisate had similar mechanical properties to that prepared from the same blend with the addition of 5 parts sulfur using a thermal vulcanisation process at 145 degrees centigrade for 15 minutes. Both products had good flammability resistance. The following reagents were introduced in a reaction vessel provided with a stirrer The above reagents were mixed until a homogeneous suspension was obtained. Then an amount of 480 parts of vinyl chloride monomer was added and the temperature was raised to 68 degrees centigrade. After four hours of reaction, the polymeric product was filtered off and found to exhibit good flammability resistance. Ethylene propylene rubber EPR is an elastomer of widespread use in wire and cable applications. It is of importance to provide elastomers for this application, fire retarded to meet the UL 94 VO flame resistance specifications without sacrifice of the mechanical properties. This is accomplished by the use of TBPMI as flame retardant. The components except dicumyl peroxide described in the following table were blended in a Brabender Plasticorder at 125 degrees centigrade for 20 minutes at 20 25 RPM. The results clearly show the flame retardant property imparted to EPR rubber. The LOI values as well as the mechanical properties are better than the composition with a known fire retardant such as Saytex BT 93. Nylon 66 polyamide prepared from adipic acid and hexamethylene diamine in the form of fibers was soaked in a solution of TBPMI in dimethylformamide DMF overnight. The drained fibers were washed with water to remove the DMF and then irradiated with 2 meV electrons from a Van de Graaff generator at a 40 megarad dosage. The fibers were then extracted with xylene to remove the excess, unbound TBPMI. The weight gain of the fibers was 21 and they contained 12.5 Br. Twisted yarns of the treated fibers were found to have an LOI of 29.3. Untreated fibers had an LOI of 22.2. Ten grams of polymethyl methacrylate PMMA and 2.71 g TBPMI were dissolved in 90 g. of toluene. The mixture was introduced into a reaction vessel and, under stirring there was added 0.158 g. of dibenzoyl peroxide 80 the balance of the latter being water commonly used for storage of this material . The temperature was gradually increased to 80 90 degrees centigrade while keeping the mixture under a nitrogen blanket. After 5 hours, the temperature was increased to reflux the toluene, and kept there for two hours. The mixture was subsequently cooled and the copolymer graft was precipitated by pouring the viscous solution slowly into vigorously stirred methanol. The polymer was separated and dried at 60 70 degrees C under vacuum. Specimens pressed from the product had an LOI of 19.5 . The LOI of PMMA nongrafted was 17.7 . A blend was prepared using the following components Vistalon 3708 ethylene propylene rubber, An amount of 95 gr of this blend is introduced in a BRABENDER PLASTICORDER PLE 651 heated at 80 degrees C. The mixing blades were rotated at a speed of 15 rpm during 22 minutes. The mixture was then crosslinked by compression molding at 130 degrees C during 30 minutes. Specimens pressed from the product had an LOI of 32.1 An important advantage which characterizes the present invention is its versatility, enabling to obtain a very large number of fire retardant compositions by grafting TBPMI with comonomers onto a preformed backbone polymer. Among the various suitable comonomers the following should be mentioned in particular Whereas the compositions according to the present invention are based on a reaction which involves cross linking, various coagents for this type of reaction may be utilized, as known in the art see for example page 331 in the Encyclopedia of Polymer Science and Technology, Vol. 4, H.F. Mark, Interscience Publ. Co., N.Y., 1966 . Among these coagents the following should be in particular mentioned triallyl cyanurate triallyl isocyanurate divinyl benzene S₂Cl₂ bis azodicarboxylates, diallyl phtalate, dimalemides, ethylene dimethacrylate, ethylene glycol dimethacrylate, 1,3 butylene glycol dimethacrylate etc. This fire retardant polymer compositions according to the present invention may further include, depending on the purposes, reinforcing agents such as glass fibers, carbon fibers and asbestos, fillers such as silica, alumina, silica magnesia, calcium silicate, calcium carbonate, barium sulfate, lubricants such as higher fatty acid esters and paraffin waxes, as well as other stabilizers, antistatic agents, antioxidants, UV absorbers, dyes, pigments e.g. TiO₂ or the like, as generally utilized for such compositions.