# Oral pharmaceutical composition.

## Abstract
A sustained release, oral pharmaceutical composition in solid unit dosage form, for application to the mucosa of the oral or nasal cavity, comprises compressed, mucosa adhesive cellulose, coated granules, the granules comprising a drug, a higher aliphatic alcohol and a hydrated water soluble hydroxyalkyl cellulose. Preferably the composition is in the form of a buccal tablet, especially a kidney shaped buccal tablet. Preferred materials are morphine as the drug, hydroxypropyl cellulose as the mucosa adhesive cellulose, cetostearyl alcohol as the aliphatic alcohol and hydroxyethyl cellulose as the water soluble cellulose. The composition has enhanced adherent properties to the mucosa and prolongs the bioavailability of the drug.

## Claims
1. A sustained release, oral pharmaceutical composition in solid unit dosage form, for application to the mucosa of the oral or nasal cavity, comprising compressed granules characterised in that the granules comprise a drug, a higher aliphatic alcohol and a hydrated water soluble hydroxyalkyl cellulose and further in that the granules are coated with a mucosa adhesive cellulose.

## Description
The present invention relates to a sustained release, oral pharmaceutical composition and, in particular, to an oral vehicle adapted for application to the mucosa of the oral or nasal cavity, especially within the buccal cavity. The administration of drugs using oral vehicles retained in the buccal cavity is known. Such administration is generally effected by inserting an oral vehicle e.g. a tablet containing a drug into the buccal cavity of the patient s mouth and then pressing the vehicle against the mucosa of the cheek or the gum until it adheres. Absorption of the drug in the vehicle generally occurs directly through the mucosa at the inner surface of the cheek and or gum into the patient s bloodstream. In some cases, however, the drug may be absorbed gastrically or enterally by the absorption of drug contained in swallowed saliva. The buccal method of drug administration has considerable advantages over adminstration by, for example, swallowing a tablet or injection. One advantage is that administration can be discontinued at any time e.g. when undesired effects arising from the administration are identified simply by removing the remainder of the vehicle. Another advantage, over oral administration, is that first pass, drug metbolism may be avoided. A particular problem associated with the buccal administration of drugs, however, is that the oral vehicle containing the drug tends, after a period, to become detached from the mucosa. At best this can be merely inconvenient, at worst it may lead to the patient swallowing the vehicle. It is an object of the present invention to provide a sustained release, oral pharmaceutical composition having improved properties of adherence to the mucosa within the oral or nasal, especially buccal cavity. It is a further object of the present invention to provide an oral vehicle prepared from the improved composition and shaped to facilitate attachment within the buccal cavity. Further objects and advantages of the present invention will become apparent from the following detailed description thereof. According to the present invention, therefore, there is provided a sustained release, oral pharmaceutical composition in solid unit dosage form, for application to the mucosa of the oral or nasal cavity, comprising compressed, mucosa adhesive cellulose coated granules, the granules comprising a drug, a higher aliphatic alcohol and a hydrated water soluble hydroxyalkyl cellulose. Preferably the solid unit dosage form is an oral vehicle for attachment within the buccal cavity. It is an important feature of the present invention that the granules used to prepare the solid unit dosage form e.g. tablet comprise extragranular mucosa adhesive cellulose which improves the attachment of the dosage form to the oral or nasal mucosa, especially within the buccal cavity. Preferably the extragranular, mucosa adhesive cellulose is applied to the granules in the form of a powdered solid rather than a solution. This allows greater control over the water content of the granules, avoids swelling of the granules and also avoids an unnecessary drying step. The present inventors have surprisingly found that by employing extragranular cellulose adhesive, especially powdered adhesive, the adherent properties of the resulting dosage form are significantly greater than those of a dosage form having intragranular adhesive only. The mucosa adhesive cellulose may be, for example, a carboxyalkyl cellulose, such as sodium carboxymethyl cellulose or a hydroxyalkyl cellulose, such as hydroxypropylmethyl cellulose. Preferably, however, hydroxypropyl cellulose HPC , especially that sold by the Hercules Powder Company as Klucel HF Trade Mark , is the mucosa adhesive material. Preferably, the mucosa adhesive cellulose is a high molecular weight material having a number average molecular weight above 200,000, especially above 500,000. Surprisingly, when HPC is employed as the adhesive in the present formulation it is found to give the dosage form adhesive properties superior to those achieved using previously preferred adhesives, such as Karaya gum and acrylic acid polymers e.g. carbopol gel or mixtures of these adhesives with other known binders. The concentration of extragranular adhesive cellulose as a proportion of the total dosage form weight is preferably between 2 and 15 w w , especially between 4 and 10 w w . Prior to compression, the granules coated with mucosa adhesive cellulose will, preferably, have a granule size of less than 1000µm. The higher aliphatic alcohol is an aliphatic alcohol containing from 8 to 18 carbon atoms which is optionally substituted by a further aliphatic group containing from 8 to 18 carbon atoms. Suitable alcohols include lauryl alcohol, myristyl alcohol, stearyl alcohol, or, which is preferred, cetyl alcohol and cetostearyl alcohol. The higher aliphatic alcohol, together with the water soluble hydroxyalkyl cellulose, serves to control the release of the drug from the composition. The level of alcohol in the composition will therefore be determined by the rate of drug release required. Generally, however, the composition will contain between 5 and 35 w w , especially 10 and 30 w w , as a proportion of the total dosage form weight of the higher aliphatic alcohol. The hydroxyalkyl cellulose is a hydroxy lower alkyl ether of cellulose and is preferably selected from the group consisting of hydroxymethyl, hydroxyethyl, hydroxypropyl and hydroxypropylmethyl cellulose, with hydroxyethyl cellulose for example Natrosol 250 HX, Trade Mark, Hercules Powder Company being particularly preferred. The hydroxyalkyl cellulose, together with the higher aliphatic alcohol, serves to control the release of the drug from the composition. The level of hydroxyalkyl cellulose in the composition will therefore be determined by the rate of drug release required. Preferably the composition will contain between 2 and 15 w w , as a proportion of the total dosage form weight, of the hydroxyalkyl cellulose. It should be noted that when the water soluble hydroxyalkyl cellulose used in the present composition is also the composition s mucosa adhesive, then the amount of hydroxyalkyl cellulose present in each dosage form is at least the sum of the hydroxyalkyl cellulose added as water soluble hydroxyalkyl cellulose and the hydroxyalkyl cellulose added as extra granular adhesive. The drug employed in the present composition is preferably absorbable through the oral or nasal mucosa. In some instances, however, drugs that are absorbed gastrically and or enterically rather than via the mucosal route may be employed. In a still further instance, the drug may be one that acts locally in the mouth, for example in the treatment of mouth ulcers. Suitable medicaments will be well known to those skilled in the pharmaceutical art. Listed below are certain of the drug categories within which are classed a number of the drugs that may be employed in the present composition. It will be appreciated that the drug may be added to the present composition not only in its free form, but also as a simple pharmacologically acceptable derivative, such as an ether, an ester, an amide, an acetal, a salt and the like. In some cases, such derivatives may actually be preferred. Particularly preferred drugs for use in the present composition are morphine, nifedipine, phenazocine, verapamil and salbutamol. These drugs can be used either singly or as a mixture of two or more. The amount of drug to be blended in a solid dosage unit will generally be enough to maintain a therapeutic level of the drug in the bloodstream for a predetermined period. In addition to the constituents discussed above, the present pharmaceutical composition may also contain certain of the known excipients, such as lubricants, binders, vehicles, colouring agents, taste controlling agents and odour controlling agents, that are employed to improve the appearance, odour or taste of pharmaceutical preparations. In a particularly preferred embodiment of the present composition, the granules contain between 2 and 15 w w , especially between 4 and 10 w w , of a binder to improve the binding and strength of the dosage form. Suitable binders include starch, dextrin, tragacanth, gelatin, polyvinylpyrrolidone, polyvinylalcohol or, which is especially preferred, a mucosa adhesive cellulose such as a carboxyalkyl cellulose or a hydroxyalkyl cellulose especially sodium carboxymethyl cellulose, hydroxypropylmethyl cellulose or, most especially, hydroxypropyl cellulose. Compositions according to this invention having both extragranular adhesive cellulose and intragranular adhesive cellulose as binder have been found to exhibit particularly good qualities of adhesion and strength. It should be noted that when the same cellulosic material is used in the present composition as the water soluble hydroxyalkyl cellulose, the extragranular mucosa adhesive cellulose and the binder, then the amount of cellulosic material present in each dosage form is at least the sum of that added as water soluble hydroxyalkyl cellulose and that added as binder and extragranular adhesive. The present composition is prepared by compressing mucosa adhesive cellulose coated granules of a mixture of a drug, a higher aliphatic alcohol and a hydrated water soluble hydroxyalkyl cellulose. The mucosa adhesive cellulose coated granules may be prepared in a number of ways. For example, the drug may first be incorporated in the higher alcohol or the cellulosic material prior to blending this with the remainder of the granules constituents. Alternatively, and preferably, the drug may first be mixed with both the water soluble hydroxyalkyl cellulose and a binder before this mixture is blended with the higher alcohol. The hydration of the water soluble hydroxyalkyl cellulose is effected at any convenient stage during the mixing of the granules ingredients. It must be carried out carefully since excessive hydration of the hydroxyalkyl cellulose results in an unmanageable granular mass, whilst insufficient hydration results in an erratic and inferior release rate of medicament from the final composition. The degree of hydration is in practice preferably that obtained by the addition of a quantity of water between 1 and 5, especially, 2 and 3 times, the dry weight of the water soluble hydroxyalkyl cellulose. Once the granules ingredients have been mixed and hydrated they are then granulated and sieved to afford granules of a suitable granule size, preferably less than 1000µm. Finally the granules are mixed with extragranular mucosa adhesive cellulose to form mucosa adhesive cellulose coated granules. It is important to note that the above methods and processes of granule formation are merely illustrative. Other preparations of the present mucosa adhesive coated granules will be immediately apparent to those skilled in this art. The compressed granules may be formed into any suitable oral dosage form by the use of, for example, a punch, die or press. In order to facilitate the use of the present composition in the mucosal, especially buccal, administration of drugs, however, there is provided, in a further aspect of the present invention, a kidney shaped oral vehicle adapted to fit closely the shape of the buccal cavity. Such an oral vehicle may be prepared using kidney shaped punches and dies. Oral dosage units according to the present invention in the form of kidney shaped oral vehicles have been found to be particularly convenient in the mucosal, especially buccal, administration of the drugs. It has been found that most patients may eat and drink freely whilst the kidney shaped oral vehicle is in position. Sustained release, oral pharmaceutical compositions and oral vehicles according to this invention, as well as processes for preparing both compositions and vehicles, will now be described by way of example only. A kidney shaped oral vehicle according to this invention is particularly exemplified by reference to Figure 1 in which a plan, a side elevation and a rear elevation is shown. Figure 2 shows the morphine plasma level achieved as a function of time by four patients using three morphine sulphate formulations. Figure 3 shows the morphine plasma levels achieved as a function of time by nine patients using a buccal morphine tablet prior to surgery. The following ingredients were used to prepare one thousand tablets 200 mg total weight, 10 mg of morphine sulphate . The morphine sulphate, mannitol, lactose, hydroxyethyl cellulose and hydroxypropyl cellulose 15g., added as a binder were dry blended until thoroughly mixed. The mixture was then hydrated approx. 65g. until a wet granular mass was obtained. The hydrated material was then partially dried in a Fluid Bed Dryer FBD at 60 C, granulated and sieved through a 12 mesh screen. The granulated material was then completely dried in the FBD at 60 C, regranulated and sieved through a 16 mesh screen. To the warmed morphine sulphate containing granules was added molten cetostearyl alcohol and the whole was mixed thoroughly. This mixture was allowed to cool in the air, regranulated and sieved through a 16 mesh screen. The extragranular hydroxypropyl cellulose 10g. was then added and mixed with the granules, until at least a substantial proportion of the granules had a coating of hydroxypropyl cellulose. Finally the coated granules were compressed and formed, using a kidney shaped punch, into kidney shaped tablets. This process afforded one thousand 200 mg. tablets, each containing 10 mg. of morphine sulphate. If desired the tablets could then be coated using standard procedures. The method of Example 1 was followed except that the amount of morphine sulphate employed was increased to 20 g. and the amount of lactose employed was reduced to 25 g. The method of Example 1 was followed except that the amount of morphine sulphate employed was increased to 30 g. and the amount of lactose employed was decreased to 15 g. The method of Example 1 was followed except that sodium carboxymethyl cellulose replaced hydroxypropyl cellulose as the mucosa adhesive cellulose and binder. The method of Example 1 was followed except that morphine sulphate was replaced by nitroglycerin 5g. , added as a 1 in 10 blend of nitroglycerine and lactose, the amount of anhydrous lactose being reduced to zero. The following ingredients were used to prepare one thousand tablets 200 mg. total weight, 20 mg. nifedipine . The nifedipine, xylitol, lactose, hydroxyethyl cellulose and hydroxypropyl cellulose 15g, added as a binder were dry blended until thoroughly mixed. The mixture was then hydrated approx. 25ml. until a wet granular mass was obtained. The hydrated material was then partially dried in a Fluid Bed Dryer FBD at 60 C, granulated and sieved through a 12 mesh screen. The granulated material was then completely dried in the FBD at 60 C, regranulated and sieved through a 16 mesh screen. To the warmed nifedipine containing granules was added molten cetostearyl alcohol and the whole was mixed thoroughly. This mixture was allowed to cool in the air, regranulated and sieved through a 16 mesh screen. The extragranular hydroxypropyl cellulose 5g and sodium carboxymethyl cellulose 5g was then added and mixed with the granules, until at least a substantial proportion of the granules had a coating of hydroxypropyl cellulose. Finally the coated granules were compressed and formed, using a kidney shaped punch, into kidney shaped tablets. This process afforded one thousand 200mg. tablets, each containing 20mg. of nifedipine. The method of Example 6 was repeated with the following ingredients, This process afforded one thousand 200 mg. tablets, each containing 0.5 mg. of buprenorphine. The method of Example 6 was repeated with the following ingredients, This process afforded one thousand 200 mg. tablets, each containing 10 mg. of phenazocine hydrobromide. Referring to Figure 1, a kidney shaped oral vehicle according to this invention 1 has a convex side 2 and a concave side 3 . Both the upper portion 4 and the lower portion 5 of the vehicle are rounded. In use the oral vehicle is placed in the buccal cavity of a patient, with the concave side 3 uppermost. A comparative single dose pharmacokinetic study of three morphine sulphate preparations, namely morphine sulphate 10 mg. buccal tablets prepared as described in Example 1 , morphine sulphate liquid 10 mg, and a sustained release morphine sulphate oral tablet 10mg orally administered MST CONTINUS tablet was conducted using four patients for each preparation. Morphine levels in plasma were determined using a liquid solid extraction followed by radio immuno assay. The results are given in Figure 2. From this Figure it can be seen that the bioavailability of morphine sulphate is significantly prolonged using the present buccal tablets, compared with the bioavailability achieved by either a liquid morphine formulation or an orally administered sustained release morphine formulation. A single dose pharmacokinetic study of morphine sulphate buccal tablets, 10 mg and 20 mg, was conducted using nine patients. The tablet was placed in position in the buccal cavity four hours prior to laparoscopy. Morphine levels in plasma were determined using an LSE RIA method. Results are given in Figure 3. Again the prolonged nature of the morphine sulphate bioavailability is apparent from this Figure. Placebo tablets, prepared as described in Example 1, but with morphine sulphate replaced by lactose 10.0gm were used to determine the adherence of tablets, prepared according to this invention, to the oral mucosa. The trial was carried out using nine volunteers. One tablet was put in place in the buccal cavity twice daily at 12 hour intervals , using both sides of the mouth alternatively, over a seven day period. Subjects were asked to record the duration of each tablet in the buccal cavity. Results are given in the Table.