# DOOR WINDOW REGULATOR DRIVING SYSTEM

## Abstract
The invention relates to a door window regulator driving system, substan tially comprising a set of balls 3 compacted inside a closed loop sheath 4 , said balls 3 being moved in either direction through a manual handle 14 or electric control, so as to move up and down the window glasses 9 of a motor vehicle.

## Claims
1 Door window regulator driving system, characterized by the fact of comprising a set of compacted balls 3 so as to form a rack 2 which can be actuated through a pinion 6 and handle 14 or an electric motor and reduction unit.

## Description
The present invention relates to a system adapted to drive the door window regulator for motor vehicles, either with manual control powered with electric motor and reduction unit or with an air or oil actuated worm gear and screw unit. It is well known that door window regulator assemblies, and more particu larly the electrically powered ones, are using sheathed Bowden cables, which in the long run may have problems of smooth sliding or uniformity of operation. Accomodation of the whole assembly is also sometimes difficult in view of the wide curvature of the sheathed cable and the reduced space available inside the door panel. The present system uses a thick set of balls, arranged inside a closed loop sheath. Said balls are closely compacted to one another so as to form a rack that may be hand actuated through a handle or power controlled by a motor reduction unit, both acting on a pinion provided with a suitably shaped toothing. Movement of said ball rack may also be obtained through an air or oil actuated worm gear and screw unit. This ball actuated system allows to arrange the sheath inside the door panel with very narrow bends or turns and to make also devices with bilateral control, but in a cheaper way in comparison with the special spiralled cables now used for this purpose. Flexibility of the system of the present invention allows also to use it with any window size and any window travel length to be controlled. In practice the door window regulator driving system of the present invention may also be embodied in different ways falling however in the scope of the invention, which will hereinafter described in detail in a non limiting example of its embodiment, reference being had to the accompanying sheet of illustrative drawings, in which With reference now to Figs. 1, 2 and 3, the driving system 1 of the present invention comprises a rack 2 consisting of a set of balls 3 made of metal or plastics, arranged inside a sheath 4 having a continuous open lip or slit 12, which can be seen in Fig. 3. Said sheath 4 forms a closed loop or circuit 5, allowing the balls 3 to be circulated continuously, being driven by rotation of a pinion 6 provided with a suitable toothing 7, actuated by a handle 14 or an electric motor and reduction unit not shown . Clearly in a suitable position, a mounting bracket 8 supporting the window glass 9 is fixed to one or more balls by means of a pin 13 passing through said open lip or slit 12, so that the glass will slide up and down during the circulation of the balls. Referring now to Fig. 4, for actuating the system it is also possible to use a device 10 acting as a little air or oil operated turbine, provided with worm screw 11, the pitch of the screw being equal to the diameter of the balls used in the system. It is to be pointed out that the detailed description of the present embodiments does not limit the scope of the invention, but on the contrary it has to be understood that many modifications, additions, variations or substitutions may be resorted to the system of the present invention, without altering however its spirit or departing from its scope of protection, as it is defined in the appended claims.