# HUMAN MONOCYTES CULTURED IN SUSPENSION IN SERUM FREE MEDIUM

## Claims
Patentansprüche für folgende Vertragsstaaten BE, FR, IT, GB, DE, CH, LI, SE, NL, LU

## Description
The present invention is related to Mononuclear phagocytes monocytes in their various forms have been shown to participate in many critical phases of the mammalian immune response. Monocytes and macrophages are known to be essential for the initiation of immune responses by virtue of their ability to process antigen Assessment of the When monocytes are obtained by positive selection, it may be difficult to remove them for further study a variety of rather harsh measures are utilized to remove the adhered cells from the plastic or glass surface, ranging from the use of rubber policemen Adherent monocytes, of course, are in a different condition from their normal state of suspension in human peripheral blood. Therefore, the functions may also be different. Furthermore, when placed in medium conditions under which they are generally cultured, human monocytes demonstrate a number of theoretical and technical inadequacies. These problems mainly stem from the limited nutrients provided in most standard laboratory culture media for a cell as metabolically active as the human monocyte, and the additional potential artifacts created by culturing human monocytes with sera from different human individuals AB serum or from other species such as fetal calf serum . Thus consistent and uniform conditions for culturing human monocytes cannot be assured from batch to batch. In contrast, the present invention provides a precisely defined, serum free medium and conditions for obtaining a large number, 10⁸ or more of highly enriched human monocytes from a single donor in long term suspension culture. Such virtually unlimited supply of autologous human monocytes now makes it possible to use the monocytes for experimental, pharmaceutical and therapeutic purposes, particularly in immunotherapy. It is, therefore, an object of the present invention to provide isolated, substantially pure, human monocytes cultured in suspension in serum free medium. It is a further object of the present invention to provide a method for It is yet another object of the present invention to provide a pharmaceutical composition for immunotherapy in humans consisting essentially of isolated, purified human monocytes in suspension in a non adherent container containing a suitable carrier, adjuvant and or biological response modifier BRM . It is an additional object of the present invention to provide a method of treating cancer in mammals comprising administering to said mammal an immunotherapeutic amount of isolated, purified monocytes suspended in a serum free medium with or without the presence of suitable adjuvants and or biological response modifiers. Other objects and advantages of the present invention would become apparent as the detailed description of the present invention proceeds. These and other objects, features and many of the attendant advantages of the invention will be better understood upon a reading of the following detailed description when considered in connection with the accompanying drawings wherein These and other objects and advantages of the present invention are achieved by providing isolated, substantially pure human monocytes cultured in suspension in a sterile, serum free medium. The isolated, cultured human monocytes of the present invention may be fortified or activated with biological response modifiers and or adjuvants. An important aspect of the present invention is the use of such apparatus, containers, appliances, laboratory equipment and the like that are made of a material which is inert or non toxic to the human monocytes and to which the human monocytes do not adhere or stick. The use of non toxic, non adherent wares throughout the manipulative steps, in any manner related to the handling of human monocytes, is a critical feature of the present invention. A preferred example of an inert, non toxic, non adherent and sterilizable material which can be suitably employed in accordance with the present invention is polytetrafluoroethylene Teflon . Other similar or equivalent materials which would be apparent and suggested to one of ordinary skill in the art, can, of course, be also used so long as such material is non toxic and non adherent to the human monocytes. Teflon, however, is commercially and easily available e.g. from DuPont Corporation, Wilmington, Delaware and, therefore, is preferred. The containers, in accordance with the present invention, are made out of solid Teflon sheets. Some examples of such containers or laboratory wares are flasks and micro titer plates and the like of various shapes and sizes, preferably ranging from 0.1 to 200 ml capacity. For convenience, of course, the shapes and sizes of solid Teflon containers are chosen to be similar to other laboratory wares routinely used for testing, culturing or other preparative work. The term substantially pure or substantially purified as used herein means that the human monocytes are as pure as it is humanly possible to obtain by the techniques and methods commonly known to one of the ordinary skill in the art to which this invention pertains. However, a purity of 90 percent or greater is necessary for the monocytes to be substantially pure. The term activated monocytes or activation of monocytes as used herein means that the isolated monocytes have been exposed to or treated with such agents or factors which would stimulate, modify or enhance the immunoregulatory, biological or physiochemical property or the native characteristics or functions of the monocytes. Such agents or factors include suitable antigens, adjuvants, biological response modifiers BRMs and the like. The term inert container as used herein means that the material of which said container is made of has no deleterious or toxic effect on the natural or normal functions of the monocytes cultured in said container. The term BRMs includes a diverse spectrum of compounds including natural cytokines such as interferons IFN , lymphokines such as interleukin 1 IL 1 , certain synthetic chemicals with immunomodulatory properties such as polyriboinosinic acid, polyribocytidylic acid, poly L lysine, carboxymethyl cellulose, poly ICLC and levamisole immunomodulatory adjuvants such as bacille Calmette Guerin BCG , Human monocytes can be isolated from the peripheral blood following routine techniques well known in the art. However, the preferred methods and materials employed for isolation and purification of the monocytes are described hereunder. Other preferred methods and materials utilized are also described. All publications cited hereunder are incorporated herein by reference. Leukocytes were obtained by leukapheresis Celltrifuge II leukapheresis apparatus. Travenol Laboratories, Deerfield, IL . Monocytes were then purified from the unfractionated mononuclear leukocyte preparation by counter current centrifugation elutriation CCE New culture techniques were developed to allow for maintenance of the single cell suspension state of purified human monocytes, utilizing specially developed culture plates made of Teflon Corning Glass Works, Corning, NY . These culture plates match the exact dimensions of standard 24 well flat bottomed polystyrene culture plates Costar Plastics, Cambridge, MA . Human monocytes were counted with an automated cell counter Electrozone Celloscope, Particle Data, Elmhursts, IL and were suspended in serum free medium or Roswell Park Memorial Institute, Buffalo, NY RPMI 1640 10 human serum L glutamine at a concentration of 10⁶ monocytes ml. For those studies in which human serum was employed, no improvement of BRM secretion was noted when concentrations in excess of 10 were utilized therefore, 10 human AB in RPMI 1640 serum was used as the standard serum containing medium. No antibiotics were added to the cell culture suspension. The optimal concentrations of activators of CSF and PGE release were 100 µg ml of muramyl dipeptide MDP Calbiochem, La Jolla, CA , 5 µg ml of lipopoly saccharide LPS Sigma, St. Louis, MO and 50 µg ml of polyriboinosinic acid polyribocytidylic acid poly I C Sigma . As an activator of interferon IFN secretion, an optimal final concentration of 200 µg ml of poly I C Sigma was added to the wells. Suspension monocyte cultures were placed at 37 C in a 5 CO₂ incubator. Maximal levels of the BRMs tested were found at the end of 48 h of culture, at which time the plates were spun once at 200 x g and the cell culture supernatant was harvested for subsequent determination of IFN, CSF or PGE activity. All cultures were performed in triplicate. After 48 h of culture, various monocyte preparations were analyzed for viability by trypan blue dye exclusion, latex bead ingestion, and cell numbers remaining in culture. Latex beads followed by trypan blue dye were added to the cultures aliquots of cells were aspirated from the Teflon suspension cultures after 30 min and assessed by phase microscopy for the percent viable and phagocytosing monocytes. For the adherent monocyte polystyrene culture plates, 100 cells were assessed The cells were cultured in a serum free medium as described by IFN activity of culture supernatants was determined Biofluids, Rockville, MD in microtiter plates by inhibition of the cytopathic effect of human foreskin cells infected with vesicular stomatitis virus VSV and is expressed in reference standard units. Reference hIFN α was supplied by the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases. PGE was determined by radioimmunoassay RIA as described by CSF concentrations in stimulated monocyte supernatants were assayed as described by For each of the experiments, a linear statistical model which includes all of the main variables plate type, medium type, activating agents and donors along with main variable interactions was employed. Analysis of variance was performed on the raw CSF data, the natural base e logarithmic transformation of the IFN data and the stimulation indices stimulated control values for the PGE data, to determine significance of main effects. For factors of more than 2 levels, Duncan s multiple range test was employed to determine significance of pairwise differences Parallel comparative experiments were performed to analyze the function of human monocytes when cultured in Teflon plates versus polystyrene plates and in 10 AB serum versus serum free medium. As shown in Table I, none of the culture conditions had any significant effect on the viability, phagocytosis, or overall cell retrieval of monocytes after 48 h of culture. It should be noted that while over 85 of monocytes cultured on polystyrene plates remained adhered to the bottom at 48 h, in the presence of 10 AB serum as well as in serum free medium, in contrast over 90 of monocytes cultured in Teflon plates remained in suspension in both serum containing and serum free media after 48 h of culture. When monocytes were exposed to an optimal concentration of poly I C 200 µg ml defined by dose response curves and the supernatants harvested at the optimal time point 48h , substantial differences were noted between paired samples cultured in AB serum versus serum free conditions. In 5 separate experiments monocytes cultured in polystyrene plates demonstrated an increase in IFN release P 0.01 under serum free conditions Table II , although individual to individual variation was noted in the levels of IFN released. A similar significantly enhanced IFN production in serum free medium was noted when monocytes were cultured in Teflon plates. When parallel comparisons of IFN production by monocytes under the 2 culture plate conditions Teflon versus polystyrene were made Table I , no difference in the effect of the culture vessel type on IFN production was found. These results clearly demonstrate that adherence was not required for monocyte IFN secretion. The effects of serum free versus AB serum and polystyrene versus Teflon culture plates are summarized in Table III. Serum free medium was shown not to significantly affect the baseline level of CSF production in either the adherent or the suspension culture systems. In contrast, serum free medium significantly enhanced CSF release P 0.01 when optimal doses of LPS, MDP and poly I C LC were used P 0.01 . It is to be noted that monocytes displayed a significant trend to more CSF release in Teflon culture plates P 0.01 as compared to polystyrene plates under both AB and serum free conditions. The most significant effect of serum free medium on PGE release by human monocytes was a consistent lowering of the baseline rate of production P 0.01 . This lowered baseline allowed for a significantly higher stimulation index following poly I C LC, LPS and MDP stimulation P 0.01 Table IV . The stimulation index for PGE release was not significantly different when cultured in Teflon or polystyrene plates. The object of EVLA therapy is to remove substantial numbers of leukocytes from the peripheral blood or bone marrow of cancer or immune dysfunction patients, followed by the purification of certain cytotoxic leukocyte subsets. Such purified leukocytes are then expanded and or activated to tumoricidal or immunotherapeutic activity The human blood monocyte and its differentiated tissue counterpart, the macrophage, are known to be capable of killing a wide range of tumor targets both directly and by antibody dependent cellular cytotoxicity ADCC mechanism. It is important that a sufficient number of cells be obtained to produce a clinical effect when infused into the patients at least 500 million . It is also essential that these cells be maintained in a state of suspension to avoid the clinical problems encountered when trying to infuse clumps of cells. Leukocyte activating substances must be of clinical grade. Until graft versus host disease problems have been clinically minimized, it is preferred that EVLA protocols are restricted to the use of autologous leukocytes. A further consideration is that if As mentioned herein It is only recently, that monocytes have been characterized as potent tumoricidal effector cells. Human monocytes have an ability to recognize and kill tumor targets The present study is the first to demonstrate clinical feasibility of EVLA therapy. As shown in Table VI a number of technical and logistic difficulties relevant to the handling of human blood monocytes in the EVLA protocol setting have now been solved. A new technique as described herein for isolating highly purified blood monocytes in large numbers by a combination of two blood component separation techniques cytapheresis sufficient autologous monocytes from a single patient are obtained to demonstrate a significant clinical effect. Moreover, the ability to home these tumoricidal cells to the site of tumor burden has also been demonstrated in patients with peritoneal colorectal carcinomatosis Table VII . Peritoneal colorectal carcinomatosis disease represents a metastatic form of colon cancer and is universally fatal. No effective therapy presently exists. It is believed that the disease tends to metastasize to distant organs such as lung and bone in the late stage and frequently kills the patient by direct local extension into the viscera. This tendency to remain localized suggests the possibility that local elimination of this metastatic disease may greatly improve the length and quality of patient life. Previous studies with these patients in which Tenckhoff catheters have been inserted into the peritoneal space for the instillation of 5 fluorouracil 5 FU bellywash protocol , The monocyte EVLA protocol for peritoneal colorectal carcinomatosis, in accordance with the present invention, is conducted at the National Cancer Institute, Bethesda, MD. As shown in Figure 1, patients with a diagnosis of peritoneal colorectal carcinomatosis are referred to the National Cancer Institute for debulking surgery to render the patients as disease free as is surgically possible, coupled with the insertion of a Tenckhoff catheter which communicates with the peritoneal space. Immediately following surgery, the patient has the intraperitoneal infusion of approximately 500 to 900 million gamma interferon activated purified blood monocytes. These cells are obtained by a 2 hour cytapheresis procedure followed by purification of the monocytes by counter current centrifugal elutriation. Following this, the purified monocytes are cultured in suspension overnight in gamma interferon Immunomodulator Laboratories, Stafford, TX at a concentration of 1000 U ml. After overnight activation in gamma interferon, the monocytes are infused into the peritoneal space via the Tenckhoff catheter. In addition, the patient receives a 2 liter infusion of peritoneal lavage fluid such as Impersol, Travenol Laboratories, Deerfield, IL to allow for the maximal distribution of the patient s activated monocytes throughout the peritoneal space. In order to determine with certainty the patient s response to this form of therapy, a second look laparotomy at the conclusion of 16 weeks of monocyte EVLA is conducted. Patients who are found to have a complete or partial response to monocyte EVLA therapy are then offered a 6 month maintenance monocyte EVLA therapy regimen. Initially, two patients were treated in the monocyte EVLA protocol at the National Cancer Institute at the Biological Therapeutics and Surgery Branches. Both patients were remarkably similar in the nature of their disease and their response to monocyte EVLA therapy. Both were white females, 38 and 41 years of age one had a diagnosis of peritoneal colorectal carcinomatosis for 12 months, the other for 6 months. Both patients were without evidence of distant metastatic disease and neither patient had any other serious illnesses. Their functional status was excellent. Both patients had severe involvement of the peritoneal surfaces with cancer virtually no aspect of the parietal peritoneum was spared. However, both patients had visibly less metastatic disease on the small intestine than elsewhere. Attempts to remove as much grossly visible disease as possible were successful. One patient required removal of a large segment of the colon in order to dissect away the malignancy. The other patient required removal of the spleen for the same purpose. Both patients tolerated the monocyte EVLA therapy remarkably well. As has been learned from the second patient, this therapy is safely performed in the outpatient department following the patient s recovery from the initial debulking surgery. Typically, the patients arrive one morning in the cytapheresis unit outpatient department and undergo a 2 hour cytapheresis procedure to remove between 5 and 9 x 10⁹ leukocytes. Following this procedure they are sent home, and that afternoon and evening the patients monocytes are purified by elutriation and placed in suspension culture with gamma interferon 1000 U ml . The next morning, the patients return to the outpatient department to receive the infusion of their activated blood monocytes along with 2 litres of additional intraperitoneral Impersol this infusion generally takes approximately 30 minutes. The patients then return home with oral analgesics and Tylenol. Generally, within 4 to 6 hours of the infusion of the monocytes, the patients note the onset of a low grade fever consistently less than 101 F and a low grade abdominal pain. The fever is manageable with Tylenol, and the pain is usually manageable with oral analgesics occasionally patients have received parenteral narcotics in the outpatient department if the pain was too severe . Within 12 hours, both the low grade fever and abdominal pain had generally subsided, and both patients had spent the rest of the week performing their normal daily activities. In both patients, a low grade granulocytopenia after the first 4 to 7 cytapheresis procedures total leukocyte count approximately 3,500 is noted at this juncture, the frequency of the EVLA treatments is adjusted to once every other week with normalization of the peripheral leukocyte count. Midway through the protocol, the trafficking pattern of the intraperitoneally infused monocytes by prelabeling them with ¹¹¹indium is analyzed. Figure 2 shows the typical distribution of the ¹¹¹indium labeled monocytes throughout the peritoneal space. The distribution is homogeneous with the few patchy areas of decreased uptake shown at second look surgery to be due to postoperative adhesions. When interpretable images from these patients up to 5 days after intraperitoneal infusion of ¹¹¹In labeled monocytes is obtained, the evidence indicates that these cells do not traffic outside of the peritoneal space. Instead, they appear to become incorporated in the cellular matrix of the peritoneum, most likely transforming into tissue macrophages. Both of the above cited patients have undergone the second look laparotomy staging procedure. Both were found to have normalization of the majority of the surface of their peritoneum including the sites most heavily infiltrated with tens of thousands of metastatic lesions at the first surgery. Neither of the patients were found to have any bulky lesions of the colon or the viscera, nor were they found to have distant metastases. However, they both had very small amounts of residual disease in places which were restricted predominantly by peritoneal adhesions from access to the monocytes. They were rendered disease free by removing the adhesions, exposing the area, and surgically excising the lesions all 1 cm . Both patients then went on to receive maintenance monocyte EVLA therapy following recuperation from the second look laparotomy procedure. The results noted above clearly indicate that immunotherapy of peritoneal colorectal carcinomatosis with activated blood monocytes is a feasible procedure. In order to obtain maximal antitumor effect the activated monocytes can be combined with other factors such as natural killer lymphocytes, antigen specific killer T lymphocytes, B cells, and the like. Such combination EVLA therapy can replace, supplement, mimic or reconstruct the natural immunologic system. Of course, the availability of It is understood that the examples and embodiments described herein are for illustrative purposes only and that various modifications or changes in light thereof will be suggested to persons skilled in the art and are to be included within the spirit and purview of this application and the scope of the appended claims.