# Purified immunoglobulin related factor, novel monoclonal antibodies, hybridoma cell lines, processes and applications

## Claims
Gereinigter, menschliches Immunglobulin E bindender Faktor IgE BF , erhältlich aus menschlichen B Zellüberständen oder menschlichem Colostrum, dessen einzelne gegebenenfalls glycosylierte Proteine, und Fragmente davon,

## Description
The invention relates to novel purified human immunoglobulin E binding factors IgE BFs , its individual optionally glycosylated proteins, and fragments thereof, processes for the purification of IgE BFs, novel monoclonal antibodies to lymphocyte cellular receptors for IgE FC Allergic diseases are still a major health problem due to their high incidence 20 to 30 of the population and to the lack of curative treatment. Usually the therapy is restricted to the use of antihistamines or to more or less effective immunization procedures. The classical antiallergic drugs have certain disadvantages, especially since they cause various side effects in the treated patient. The immunization procedure is limited to one or two allergens whereas most of the patients are sensitive to a large number of allergens. In addition, hyposensitization treatment is neither curative nor protective. The vast majority of allergic diseases are mediated by immunoglobulin E IgE antibodies directed against a myriad of airborne allergens, e.g. pollens, animal danders or house dust mite, etc., food antigens, pharmacological agents, e.g. penicillins, or hymenoptera venom. The mechanisms regulating the production of IgE have been extensively investigated in laboratory animals K. Ishizaka, Ann. Rev. Immunol. 2, 159 1984 . These studies have clearly indicated the existence of non antigen specific but IgE isotype specific mechanisms controlling the production of IgE in animal models. The effector molecules of these regulatory mechanisms were named IgE binding factors IgE BFs owing to their affinity for IgE. IgE BFs may be divided into IgE suppressive factors IgE SFs and IgE potentiating factors IgE PFs These molecules differ only by their carbohydrate content. IgE SFs are not glycosylated or less glycosylated than the corresponding IgE PFs. The actual production of IgE in animal models is determined by the ratio between these two kinds of IgE BFs. The same cells are capable of secreting either IgE SFs or IgE PFs depending on the influence of either glycosylation inhibiting or enhancing factors which are secreted by distinct regulatory T lymphocyte subpopulations. M. Sarfati It is already known that breast feeding may alter the immune reactivity of the newborn. Recent prospective studies further indicated that exclusive breast feeding protects the high risk infants against allergic disease. Multiple mechanisms are invoked to explain these observations i A reduced exposure to foreign food antigens, ii the protection by milk IgA blocking antibodies specific to various alimentary antigens and to other environmental antigens, iii the protection against common viral diseases known to trigger the onset of allergic diseases, and finally iv the presence in human milk of immunoregulatory factors capable of modulating the immature immune system of the neonate S.S. Crago and J. Mestecky, Surv.Immunol.Res. So far IgE BFs with IgE SF activity have not been identified in human colostrum, and the isolation thereof is nowhere described. Surprisingly, such IgE BFs have now been isolated in highly purified form. IgE plays an important role in the development of allergic diseases. Purified IgE binding factors are therefore important for the diagnosis and therapy of allergic diseases and immune regulation diseases connected therewith. In particular IgE BFs with IgE suppressive activity might be useful in the treatment of allergic diseases, whereas IgE BFs with IgE potentiating activity might increase resistance to infections, for example resistance to parasitic infections. The known assays for the detection of IgE BFs are based on a rosette inhibition test wherein RPMI 8866 cells from a lymphoblastoid B cell line expressing receptors for IgE Fc The present invention provides a solution to the aforementioned problems through the preparation of monoclonal antibodies to lymphocyte Fc A first object of the present invention is to provide IgE binding factors IgE BFs in purified form, its individual optionally glycosylated proteins, and fragments thereof, and a method of their isolation. A further object of the invention is to provide monoclonal antibodies useful for the qualitative and quantitative determination and for the purification of IgE BFs. A third object of the invention is to provide a method for the prevention and or the treatment of allergy by administering the IgE BFs, the individual proteins or fragments of the invention, and to provide pharmaceutical compositions comprising them. The present invention relates to purified human immunoglobulin E binding factor IgE BF , its individual optionally glycosylated proteins, and fragments thereof. In a preferred embodiment of the invention, this purified IgE BF and its constituents are isolated from human B cell supernatants or from human colostrum. For instance, purified IgE BFs of the invention are characterized as follows The individual IgE BF proteins of the above IgE BFs are characterized as follows It should be understood that by SDS PAGE only approximate molecular weights can be determined and that actual molecular weights of the compounds of the invention are in the range of 20 35 KD. Likewise the actual amino acid composition may differ from the range of amino acids given hereinbefore due to uncertainties of the method of total amino acid analysis. Some of these individual IgE BF proteins are bound by the monoclonal antibody with the designation 208.25 A.4.3 135, but not bound by the monoclonal antibody with the designation 208.25 D.2 94 to a significant extent, and The individual IgE BF proteins may be glycosylated or devoid of carbohydrate residues. Typically, a glycosylated IgE BF protein contains one or more carbohydrate residue, e.g. N acetylglucosamine or an oligosaccharide containing N acetylglucosamine N glycosidically linked to an asparagine residue and or N acetylgalactosamine or an oligosaccharide containing N acetylgalactosamine O glycosidically linked to a serine or threonine residue. The oligosaccharides may include sialic acids such as N acetylneuraminate or N glycolylneuraminate. The invention relates also to fragments of IgE BFs characterized in that The invention relates also to a process for the preparation of purified IgE BF, its individual optionally glycosylated proteins, and fragments thereof, characterized in that a solution containing IgE BF, for example a culture supernatant of IgE BF producing cells such as RPMI 8866 cells or a human colostrum preparation, is brought into contact with a carrier material bearing monoclonal antibodies specific to FC Cell culture supernatants or cell extracts containing IgE BF are prepared according to methods known Human colostrum preparations containing IgE BF may be obtained in the following way Human colostrum from healthy volunteers is collected during the first two days of postpartum, however milk collected later may also be used. The colostrum is treated with protease inhibitors, e.g. phenylmethylsulfonyl fluoride, benzamidine, ε aminocaproic acid and or EDTA, then clarified, e.g. by ultracentrifugation or filtration, and acidified, e.g. with hydrochloric acid, up to about pH 4 in order to precipitate the casein. After removing the casein, e.g. by filtration or centrifugation, the clarified preparation is neutralized with buffer solution, e.g. with 2M Tris buffer, and passed through a filter system, preferably stepwise, in order to remove large molecules of over 50 KD. For example, the pores of the first filter may have a diameter of about 0.45 µm, and the filtrate thereof may then be passed through a membrane filter, e.g. an Amicon XM 50 filter, with the desired cut off point of 50 KD. After filtration the preparation is dialyzed against distilled water and lyophilized. This colostrum preparation is preferably further purified by chromatographic methods in order to collect the polypeptides with a molecular weight of between about 10 and 30 KD. Any conventional chromatographic method may be used, such as gel filtration chromatography on agarose gel, e.g. on Sephadex G 75. For example, the colostrum preparation is applied to an agarose gel column in a buffer solution containing a surface active compound and other adjuncts, and molecular weight fractions collected. The fractions containing the IgE BF are those containing polypeptides of a molecular weight of about 10 to 30 KD. They are pooled, optionally concentrated, and dialyzed. IgE BFs are separated from other proteins and foreign substances in the solutions based on binding interactions between monoclonal antibodies specific to Fc The choice of monoclonal antibodies to be used in the immunoaffinity chromatography depends on the kind and source of IgE BFs to be purified. For example, IgE BF from B cell supernatants is preferably purified with the monoclonal antibodies with the designations 207.25 A.4.4 30 or 207.25 A.4.4 45, whereas IgE BF from colostrum is preferably purified with the monoclonal antibody with the designation 208.25 D.2 94 and or 207.25 A.4.4 30. It should be understood that any other conventional method of isolating the IgE BFs is comprised by the present invention. If desired, the human IgE BF obtained on immunoaffinity chromatography is purified further and separated into its individual optionally glycosylated proteins, for example by ion exchange chromatography, gel filtration chromatography, preparative reversed phase or hydrophobic interaction high performance liquid chromatography HPLC or related chromatographic methods, preparative polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis, and the like, and combinations of these purification and separation steps. In particular, the human IgE BF obtained on immunoaffinity chromatography is purified further by ion exchange chromatography on a weakly basic anion exchanger, e.g. diethylaminoethyl DEAE substituted cellulose or agarose, optionally followed by a further purification by immunoaffinity chromatography with monoclonal antibodies. The ion exchange chromatography material bearing the weakly basic anion exchanger is equilibrated in a suitable aqueous buffer solution, e.g. a buffer solution of pH 6 to pH 9, such as Tris or phosphate buffer solution, then contacted with the human IgE BF. Preferably the chromatography is performed in a column and the solution of the human IgE BF is pumped through the ion exchange material. Unbound proteins and impurities are washed from the column with a buffer solution and the desired optionally glycosylated peptides eluted by increasing salt concentration, e.g. by Tris buffer solution containing increasing amounts of sodium chloride. It is understood that ion exchange chromatography may be performed also on a HPLC column. Likewise preferred is a purification of human IgE BF with preparative reversed phase HPLC. Such a purification and separation into individual optionally glycosylated proteins is performed on silica based carrier material bearing hydrophobic groups, e.g. alkyl groups of 2 to 20 carbon atoms or phenyl groups. Preferred is silica based carrier material bearing lower alkyl groups, e.g. n butyl groups. The solution of human IgE BF is injected onto the reversed phase HPLC column and processed in aqueous acid solution, e.g. aqueous trifluoroacetic acid solution, containing increasing amounts of a polar, water miscible organic solvent, e.g. acetonitrile, lower alcohols, e.g. methanol, ethanol or propanol, tetrahydrofuran, and the like, preferably acetonitrile. Individual optionally glycosylated proteins are preferably obtained by preparative sodium dodecyl sulfate SDS polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis. A solution of human IgE BF in a suitable buffer, e.g. Tris buffer, containing glycerol and SDS is prepared and applied to a polyacrylamide gel containing 10 15 , preferably 12 , acrylamide and up to 0.5 , e.g. around 0.3 bis acrylamide. Gel electrophoresis is run in the usual manner together with molecular weight markers. Homogeneous molecular weight fractions are eluted from the gel and isolated in pure form, for example by ion exchange chromatography, electrophoretic concentration and or vacuum centrifugation. It is understood that the usual methods of dialyzing, dissolving and reprecipitating in suitable salt and or buffer solutions and solvent mixtures may be included in the separation scheme. IgE BF or individual glycosylated proteins may be further processed by partial or total cleavage of glycosidic linkages giving rise to other, less glycosylated proteins or unglycosylated proteins of the invention. For example, proteins of the invention are treated with enzymes cleaving glycosidic linkages, e.g. N glycanase, neuraminidase and or O glycosidase, in suitable buffer solutions, e.g. phosphate or Tris buffer optionally containing adjuncts such as detergents, e.g. sodium dodecyl sulfate, Tweens or NP 40, complexing agents, e.g. EDTA, salts, e.g. calcium salts, reducing agents, e.g. β mercaptoethanol, and the like. The resulting reaction products are processed as described for individual optionally glycosylated proteins or IgE BF fragments hereinbefore. Fragments of IgE BF and of individual optionally glycosylated proteins of the invention are obtained by protease treatment of IgE BF containing solutions or of individual proteins. For example, if no protease inhibitors are added to colostrum or to cell supernatants containing IgE BF, the proteases inherently present in such solutions will cleave the IgE BF and its individual proteins. Otherwise, a protease, e.g. papain or trypsin, may be added deliberately to solutions containing IgE BF or to solutions containing its individual proteins. The IgE BF fragments are isolated and purified as described hereinbefore for IgE BF and or individual optionally glycosylated proteins, for example by ultrafiltration, gel filtration chromatography, immunoaffinity chromatography, ion exchange chromatography, preparative reversed phase HPLC, and or preparative SDS polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis. The IgE binding and IgE synthesis suppressing activity of the isolated IgE BFs, its individual proteins and or fragments thereof can be determined by methods known in the art, e.g. by the rosette inhibition assay, the blocking of IgE binding to anti IgE antibodies, affinity chromatography experiments, and the like. The adsorption and elution experiments on IgE and IgG coupled agarose gels can be taken as specificity controls indicating that the rosette inhibition activity and the blocking of IgE binding to anti IgE antibodies is indeed due to factors binding IgE. The invention relates also to novel monoclonal antibodies to lymphocyte cellular receptors for IgE Fc The monoclonal antibodies of the invention are e.g. detected by their ability to inhibit the binding of IgE coated latex particles to RPMI 8866 cells expressing Fc Further, the monoclonal antibodies can be detected e.g. by their ability to bind to cells expressing Fc The specificity of the monoclonal antibodies towards Fc That the monoclonal antibodies specific for Fc Preferred are monoclonal antibodies to Fc Hereinafter the monoclonal antibodies of the invention shown in Table I will be designated by Mab number , wherein the number corresponds to the two digit or three digit number behind the oblique stroke of the clone number. Derivatives of monoclonal antibodies according to the invention are, for example, fragments, such as Fab, Fab or F ab ₂ fragments, that retain their specificity for the antigenic determinants of IgE BF, radioactively labelled monoclonal antibodies which are labelled, for example, with radioactive iodine ¹²⁵I, ¹³¹I , carbon ¹ The monoclonal antibodies of the invention and derivatives thereof are obtained by processes known Suitable culture media for the Large quantities of the desired monoclonal antibodies can also be obtained by the propagation of hybridoma cells Fragments of monoclonal antibodies, for example Fab, Fab or F ab ₂ fragments, which retain their specificity towards the antigenic determinants of IgE BFs, can be obtained from the monoclonal antibodies obtained by Monoclonal antibodies labelled with radioactive iodine such as ¹²⁵I are prepared by iodination methods known in the art, e.g. by labelling monoclonal antibodies with radioactive sodium or potassium iodide and a chemical oxidant, such as sodium hypochlorite, chloramine T or the like, or an enzymatic oxidant, such as lactoperoxidase or glucose oxidase and glucose. Radioactively labelled monoclonal antibodies of the invention are also prepared by adding radioactively labelled nutrients to the culture media of the Enzyme conjugates of monoclonal antibodies of the invention are prepared by methods known in the art, e.g. by reacting a monoclonal antibody or a fragment thereof prepared as described hereinbefore with the desired enzyme in the presence of a coupling agent, e.g. glutaraldehyde, periodate, N,N o phenylenedimaleimide, N m maleimidobenzoyloxy succinimide, N 3 2 pyridyldithio propionoxy succinimide, N ethyl N 3 dimethylaminopropyl carbodiimide or the like. Conjugates of monoclonal antibodies with avidin are obtained in like manner. Conjugates with biotin are obtained e.g. by reacting monoclonal antibodies of the invention with biotin N hydroxysuccinimidyl ester. Likewise, conjugates of monoclonal antibody fragments, e.g. F ab ₂ fragments, with the mentioned enzymes or with biotin can be prepared. The invention further relates to hybridoma cell lines, characterized in that they secrete monoclonal antibodies to lymphocyte cellular receptors for IgE Fc In particular, the invention concerns cell lines which are hybrids of myeloma cells and B lymphocytes of a mammal immunized with lymphocytes expressing Fc Particularly preferred are the hybridoma cell lines with the designation 208.25 A.4.3 135 and 208.25 D.2.1 176, which have been deposited on February 2, 1985 at the Collection Nationale de Cultures de Microorganismes , Institut Pasteur, Paris, under the number I 425 and I 420, respectively, the hybridoma cell lines with the designation 207.25 A.4.4 30 and 207.25 A.4.4 45, which have been deposited on May 29, 1985 at the Collection Nationale de Cultures de Microorganismes , Institut Pasteur, Paris, under the number I 451 and I 452, respectively, and the hybridoma cell line with the designation 208.25 D.2 94, which has been deposited on October 1, 1985 at the Collection Nationale de Cultures de Microorganismes , Institut Pasteur, Paris under the number I 486. These hybridoma cell lines are hybrids of the mouse myeloma cell line NSI 1 and of B lymphocytes of the spleen of Balb c mice immunized with viable RPMI 8866 cells. They are stable cell lines, which secrete the monoclonal antibodies with the designation Mab 135, Mab 176, Mab 30, Mab 45, and Mab 94, respectively. The cell lines may be kept in deep frozen cultures and reactivated by thawing and re cloning. The invention relates also to a process for the production of hybridoma cell lines secreting monoclonal antibodies which bind to Fc As antigens there may be used any lymphocytes expressing Fc Preferred mammals for the immunization are mice, particularly Balb c mice. The immunizations are performed e.g. by injecting viable RPMI 8866 cells three to eight times parenterally, such as intraperitoneally and or subcutaneously, at intervals of three to five weeks, in amounts of about 10⁷ up to about 10⁸ cells. Antibody producing cells of the immunized mammals, preferably spleen cells, taken two to five days after the final antigen injection, are fused with myeloma cells of a suitable cell line in the presence of a fusion promoter. Several suitable myeloma cell lines are known in the art. Preferred are myeloma cell lines lacking the enzyme hypoxanthine guanine phosphoribosyl transferase HGPRT or the enzyme thymidine kinase TK , which therefore do not survive in a selective culture medium containing hypoxanthine, aminopterin and thymidine HAT medium . Particularly preferred are myeloma cells and derived cell lines that do not survive in HAT medium and do not secrete immunoglobulins or fragments thereof, such as the cell lines NSI 1 Ag4 1, X63 Ag8.653 or Sp2 O Ag14. Fusion promoters considered are e.g. Sendai virus or other paramyxo viruses, optionally in UV inactivated form, calcium ions, surface active lipids such as lysolecithin, or polyethylene glycol. Preferentially, the myeloma cells are fused with a three to tenfold excess of spleen cells from immunized mammals in a solution containing about 30 to about 60 polyethylene glycol of a molecular weight between 1000 and 4000 and, optionally, about 5 to about 15 dimethylsulfoxide. After the fusion, the cells are resuspended and cultivated in selective HAT medium. Thereby only hybridoma cells will survive, because they combine the ability to grow and replicate in vitro inherited from myeloma cells and the missing HGPRT or TK genes essential for the survival in the HAT medium inherited from the antibody producing spleen cells of the immunized mammals. Suitable culture media for the expansion of hybridoma cells are the standard culture media, such as Dulbecco s modified Eagle medium, minimum essential medium, RPMI 1640 medium and the like, optionally replenished by serum, e.g. 10 to 15 fetal calf serum, amino acids, and antibiotics, e.g. penicillin and or streptomycin. Preferentially feeder cells are added at the beginning of the cell growth, e.g. normal mouse peritoneal exsudate cells, spleen cells, marrow bone macrophages, or the like. The culture media are supplemented with selective HAT medium at regular interval in order to prevent normal myeloma cells overgrowing the hybridoma cells. The hybridoma cell culture supernatants are screened for the desired monoclonal antibodies, preferentially with an assay wherein the inhibition of binding of IgE coated latex particles to RPMI 8866 cells pretreated with the culture supernatants is tested. Positive hybridoma cells are cloned, e.g. by limiting dilution, preferentially twice or more. The cloned cell lines may be frozen in a conventional manner. The monoclonal antibodies of the invention and or their derivatives are useful for the qualitative and quantitative determination and or purification of IgE BF from lymphocytes or colostrum, of individual optionally glycosylated proteins and of fragments thereof. For instance, the monoclonal antibodies or derivatives thereof, such as enzyme conjugates, biotin conjugates or radioactive derivatives, can be used in any of the known immunoassays, which rely on the binding interaction between the antigenic determinant, e.g. on Fc In particular the invention relates to radioimmunoassays RIA for the determination of IgE BFs with the aid of the monoclonal antibodies of the invention and or radioactively labelled derivatives thereof. Any of the known modifications of an RIA can be used, for example RIA in homogeneous phase, solid phase RIA or heterogeneous RIA, single RIA or double sandwich RIA with direct or indirect competitive determination of IgE BFs. There is preferred an RIA in which a suitable carrier, for example the plastic surface of a titre plate or of a test tube, for example of polystyrene, polypropylene or polyvinyl chloride, glass or plastic beads, filter paper, or dextran, cellulose acetate or nitrocellulose sheets or the like, is coated with a monoclonal antibody of the invention by simple adsorption or optionally after activation of the carrier, e.g. with glutaraldehyde or cyanogen bromide, then incubated with a test or standard solution containing IgE BF and a solution of a ¹²⁵I labelled derivative of a second monoclonal antibody of the invention recognizing a different epitope of IgE BF. It is also possible, but less desirable, to use a ¹²⁵I labelled derivative of the same monoclonal antibody. The invention relates also to enzyme immunoassays for the determination of IgE BFs with the aid of the monoclonal antibodies of the invention and or conjugates with enzymes or with biotin thereof, including conjugates of monoclonal antibody fragments with biotin. For example a carrier as described above for an RIA is coated with a monoclonal antibody of the invention, incubated with a test or standard solution containing IgE BF and then with a solution of a conjugate of a different monoclonal antibody or antibody fragment with a suitable enzyme followed by a solution of an enzyme substrate that makes visible the amount of enzyme conjugated antibody bound. In place of an enzyme conjugated monoclonal antibody a biotin conjugated monoclonal antibody or antibody fragment can be used together with an avidin enzyme conjugate. Preferred enzymes in the enzyme immunoassays according to the invention are horseradish peroxidase which can be developed, for example, with the enzyme substrates 5 aminosalicylic acid, o phenylenediamine, 3,3 dimethoxybenzidine, 3,3 ,5,5 tetramethylbenzidine, 2,2 azino bis 3 ethylbenzothiazoline 6 sulphonic acid or the like and hydrogen peroxide, and alkaline phosphatase which, for example, releases p nitrophenol from the enzyme substrate p nitrophenyl phosphate. Particularly preferred is an enzyme immunoassay in which a suitable carrier as described above for an RIA is coated with a monoclonal antibody of the invention, then incubated with a test or standard solution containing IgE BF and a solution of a conjugate of a monoclonal antibody of the invention or a fragment thereof with biotin, followed by a solution of an avidin enzyme conjugate, e.g. an avidin horseradish peroxidase conjugate, and a solution of an enzyme substrate. The use according to the invention of monoclonal antibodies to Fc The invention relates also to test kits for the qualitative and quantitative determination of IgE BF, individual optionally glycosylated proteins and fragments thereof, characterized in that they contain monoclonal antibodies to Fc Test kits according to the invention for a radioimmunoassay contain e.g. a suitable carrier as defined hereinbefore, optionally freeze dried or concentrated solutions of a monoclonal antibody of the invention and of a ¹²⁵I labelled, same or different monoclonal antibody of the invention, standard solutions of IgE BF and or individual optionally glycosylated proteins, buffer solutions, detergents preventing non specific adsorption and aggregate formation, pipettes, reaction vessels, calibration curves and the like. Test kits according to the invention for an enzyme immunoassay contain e.g. a suitable carrier as defined hereinbefore, optionally freeze dried or concentrated solutions of a monoclonal antibody of the invention and of a conjugate of a monoclonal antibody or antibody fragment of the invention with an enzyme or with biotin and, when a biotin conjugate is used, of an avidin enzyme conjugate, standard solutions of IgE BF and or individual optionally glycosylated proteins, buffer solutions, enzyme substrates in solid or dissolved form, detergents preventing non specific adsorption and aggregate formation, pipettes, reaction vessels, calibration curves and the like. The invention further relates to the use of the purified IgE BFs, individual optionally glycosylated proteins, and fragments thereof for the treatment or prevention of allergic conditions in patients being allergic against all kinds of antigens, for example pollens, cat danders, house dust mites, and the like. Particularly important would be the treatment of high risk patients during critical periods, including especially high risk new borns which are not breast fed. The IgE BFs of the present invention are administered enterally, for example nasally, rectally or orally, or parenterally, for example, intramuscularly, subcutaneously or intravenously, usually in dosage unit forms such as tablets, dragées, ampoules, vials, or suppositories. The amount of purified IgE BFs, its individual optionally glycosylated proteins or fragments thereof to be administered depends on the weight and general condition of the patient, the severity of the disease, the mode of administration and has to be based on the judgement of the physician. In general a dose of between about 100 µg and about 5000 µg per kg bodyweight and day may be administered. The invention further relates to pharmaceutical preparations containing the IgE BFs, its individual optionally glycosylated proteins or fragments thereof in an antiallergically effective amount optionally in conjunction with conventional pharmaceutically acceptable carriers that are suitable for oral, rectal, nasal or parenteral, i.e. intramuscular, subcutaneous or intraperitoneal, administration and that do not deleteriously interact with the active ingredients. There are suitable tablets, capsules, vials containing a solid powder, or nebulizers, sprays, vials, ampoules and the like containing infusion solutions, preferably aqueous solutions or suspensions, it being possible to prepare these before use, for example from lyophilized preparations that contain the active ingredient alone or together with a carrier, such as mannitol, lactose, glucose, albumin and the like. The pharmaceutical preparation may be sterilized and, if desired, mixed with adjuncts, for example preservatives, stabilisers, emulsifiers, solubilisers, buffers and or salts for regulating the osmotic pressure. Sterilization can be achieved by sterile filtration through filters of small pore size 0.45 µm diameter or smaller after which the preparation can be lyophilized, if desired. Antibiotics may also be added in order to assist in preserving sterility. The pharmaceutical preparations according to the present invention are dispensed in unit dosage forms, for example ampoules, comprising 1 to 2000 mg of a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier per unit dosage and about 1 to 100 mg, preferably about 2 to 50 mg, of the active ingredient, i.e. the purified IgE BF or its individual proteins per unit dosage. The invention also relates to a method for producing a pharmaceutical preparation, characterized in that the purified IgE BF, its individual optionally glycosylated proteins or fragments thereof are admixed with a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier. The pharmaceutical preparations are produced in a manner known The use of the new proteins for the prophylactic and therapeutic treatment of the human body is also an object of the present invention. Figure 1 shows fluorescence histograms of RPMI 8866 cells reacted with either A IgE coated latex particles or B fetal calf serum coated latex particles. The extent of labelling is quantified by the number of cells per channel in function of the channel number, which itself is a function of the logarithm of the fluorescence intensity. Details are given in Example 3. Figure 2 shows representative fluorescence histograms indicating the presence of antibodies to Fc Figure 3 shows fluorescence histograms demonstrating the ability of IgE at concentrations of 10 or 100 µg ml to inhibit the binding of four different monoclonal antibodies to RPMI 8866 cells, whereas IgG has no effect. Details are given in Example 7. Figure 4 shows the analysis result of a reversed phase HPLC of reaction products obtained on papain and trypsin digestion of radiolabeled 25 28 KD protein from RPMI 8866 cells and from colostrum, respectively. This experiment demonstrates the identity of processed 25 28 KD protein from either source. Figure 5 shows a standard curve obtained by a serial two fold dilution of a reference culture supernatant from RPMI 8866 cells containing IgE BF as determined by the radioimmunoassay described in Example 21. Figure 6 shows curves obtained by a serial two fold dilution of different samples as determined by the radioimmunoassay described in Example 22. The figure demonstrates the selectivity of the assay for IgE BFs in colostrum and serum as compared to IgF BF from B cell supernatant or to immunoglobulins of different classes. The following examples describe the present invention in more detail, however, they should not be construed as a limitation thereof. The abbreviations used in the Examples have the following meanings BALB c mice are immunized by three intraperitoneal injections of 5 x 10⁷ viable RPMI 8866 cells received from Dr.P.Ralph, Sloan Kettering Research Institute, NY, USA in PBS at 4 week intervals. Individual mouse serum samples collected 2 days after the last injection are tested for anti Fc 5 ml of RPMI c medium RPMI 1640 medium supplemented with 1 penicillin streptomycin Gibco , 1 L glutamine Gibco and 15 v v FCS Gibco is added dropwise over a period of 90 sec followed by the rapid addition of an additional 5 ml. The cellular suspension is mixed by inverting the tube, allowed to stand for 2.5 min and centrifuged at 350 x g for 5 min. The pellet is resuspended in 5 ml RPMI c medium and 50 µl aliquots are dispensed into each well of 4 Costar 3596 24 well plates also containing 1 x 10⁶ normal BALB c spleen cells in 1 ml HAT medium RPMI c supplemented with 40 µM 2 mercaptoethanol, 100 µM hypoxanthine, 10 µM aminopterin and 1 µM thymidine . All cultures are maintained by alternate addition or replacement of HAT medium every few days as required, starting on the 5th day following fusion. After 14 days HAT is replaced by HT medium and after 28 days by RPMI c. Supernatants of individual wells 192 cultures are screened for anti Fc Balb c mice are pretreated intraperitoneally with 0.5 ml pristane Aldrich . 2 weeks later, 5x10⁶ cloned hybridoma cells are injected intraperitoneally. After 8 10 days ascites fluid is collected, centrifuged at 800 x g and stored at 20 C. Defrosted ascites fluid is centrifuged at 50,000 x g for 60 min. A fat layer floating on the surface is carefully removed, and the protein concentration is adjusted to a concentration of 10 12 mg ml. Crude immunoglobulin is precipitated by dropwise addition of 0.9 volume equivalents of saturated ammonium sulphate at 0 C, then dissolved in 20 mM Tris HCl 50 mM NaCl pH 7.9 and dialyzed against the same buffer. An immunoglobulin G fraction is obtained by DEAE D52 cellulose Whatman chromatography using a buffer gradient system of 20 mM Tris HCl 25 400 mM NaCl, pH 7.9. The immunoglobulin G is again precipitated with ammonium sulphate and dissolved in PBS at a concentration of 10 mg ml. It is also possible to obtain monoclonal antibodies by The purified Mabs are routinely characterized by SDS PAGE and by Ouchterlony analysis with sheep antisera to mouse Ig subclasses. The subclasses are listed in Table I. Antibodies to the Fc Flow cytometric analysis is performed on a fluorescence activated cell sorter EPICS V , Coulter Electronics with fluorescent determinations being gated on both forward angle and 90 degree light scatter characteristics as described by M. Sarfati 2 x 10⁵ RPMI 8866 cells are incubated with hybridoma supernatants or other solution of Mabs for 30 min at 4 C in a total volume of 0.2 ml H RPMI. Following two washes with H RPMI, 200 µl of a fluoresceinconjugated goat anti mouse Ig reagent GAM FITC , Coulter Immunology are added and reacted for 30 min at 4 C. After an additional two washes with H RPMI, the cells are resuspended in 300 µl H RPMI and analyzed by flow cytometry as described in Example 3. 5.1 The results of the experiments shown in Table II indicate that the monoclonal antibody completely blocks the binding of IgE to each B cell line. The data also suggest that the inhibition is not mediated by its Fc region, because a large excess of mouse IgG can not mimic the inhibitory activity of Mab 135. A more direct demonstration that the Mab is reacting with Fc 5.2 5.3 Mabs isolated from ascitic fluid Example 2 are digested with the enzyme pepsin 5 w w for 20 hr at 37 C. This digest is fractionated by gel filtration Sephadex G 200, Pharmacia and the fractions containing F ab ₂ fragments further depleted of residual undigested IgG by absorption with Sepharose coupled goat antibodies to mouse IgG1. The purified Ig and their fragments are tested by SDS PAGE the preparations are stained with Coomassie blue. The preincubation of RPMI 8866 cells with IgE saturates the Fc In other similar experiments it is found that IgA, IgM and IgD employed at concentrations ranging from 100 to 500 µg ml have no effect on the binding of Mab 135 to either RPMI 8866 cells or the EBV cell lines expressing Fc In these assays, peripheral blood mononuclear cells are preincubated with 10 µg ml of Mab 135, and subsequently washed and rosetted with IgG coated ox erythrocytes. In the absence of Mab, 11.4 4.5 of the cells form rosettes as compared to 11.1 3.4 in the presence of 10 µg ml of Mab 135 mean 1 SD of four experiments . Bovine erythrocytes are coated with Mabs, e.g. Mab 135, as described by S. Romagnani Affi Gel 10 Bio Rad is washed as directed by the manufacturer with cold distilled water and coupling buffer pH 8.0 0.1 M NaHCO₃ solution . A 50 strength suspension of the gel in coupling buffer 2 ml is introduced into a plastic tube and mixed with the same volume of a solution that contains 10 mg of Mab 30, and the mixture is rotated for 4 hours at room temperature. The gel is then washed with coupling buffer. In order to block the active sites that are still free, the gel is treated for 2 hours at room temperature with 0.1 ml of 1M ethanolamine HCl, pH 8.0, then washed with PBS containing 10 mmol of sodium azide and kept therein at 4 C. An immunoaffinity gel containing Mab 45, Mab 94 or Mab 135 is prepared likewise. Culture supernatant from RPMI 8866 cells is concentrated 100 fold on Amicon YM5 membrane filters. 70 ml of this solution are filtered through a 2 ml column of Mab 30 or Mab 45 Affigel Example 10 at a flow rate of 5 ml hr. The gel is washed successively with 20 volumes PBS supplemented with 0.5 M NaCl and 0.05 Tween 20, 5 volumes PBS and 5 volumes NaCl 0.9 . The protein content of the flow through is monitored by on line absorbance at 280 nm by means of a Uvicord spectrophotometer to ensure complete removal of unbound proteins. The column is then eluted with 8 ml 0.1 M glycine HCl 0.1 M NaCl, pH 2.6, and the protein containing fractions combined, neutralized with 1 M Tris, and dialyzed against distilled water. Concentrated solutions of purified IgE BF are obtained by treatment with a ISCO electrophoretic concentrator Model 1750 ISCO Inc. and a Spectrapor membrane Spectrum Medical Industries with 3.5 KD cut off. The solutions are dialyzed against 25 mM ammonium acetate, pH 8.3, and thereby concentrated to a volume of 0.2 ml. This purified IgE BF is analyzed in the following way Fractions are incubated with Laemmli buffer containing 1 SDS and 5 2 mercaptoethanol, then separated into individual proteins by 12 SDS PAGE and silver staining as described in the BioRad manual. Proteins with approximate molecular weight of 12, 16, 25 28, 45 and 60 KD are detected. They are transferred electrophoretically 4 hrs at 0.21A, transfer buffer 25 mM Tris, pH 8.3, 192 mM glycine, 20 v v methanol to a nitrocellulose membrane. The membrane is blocked with Tris buffered saline containing 10 FCS. Strips are cut and reacted individually with Mab 30, 135 and 64, each at 10 µg ml. After 6 hrs incubation the strips are washed and reacted overnight with horseradish peroxidase goat anti mouse IgG. The strips are washed and developed with 4 chloro 1 naphthol peroxidase substrate as detailed in the BioRad instruction manual. The Mab 30, 135 and 64 each react with the 25 28 KD and irregularly with the 45 KD protein band. 12.1 12.2. 12.3. An ISCO sample concentrator Model 1750 is used to elute the proteins from the gel piece, as described by A.J. Brown J.C. Bennett Methods in Enzymology The 25 28 KD protein purified by SDS PAGE according to Example 12.3 48 pMol, 1.2 µg is lyophilized, then dissolved in 6N HCl and boiled at 110 C under vacuum for 24 hrs. The amino acids are derivatized with 4 dimethylamino azobenzene 4 sulfonyl chloride in sodium bicarbonate buffer, and 5 of the mixture corresponding to 2.4 pMol per amino acid analyzed on a Merck Lichrosphere 100 CH 18 2 HPLC column using a Waters instrument following a procedure of J.Y. Chang, R. Knecht D.G. Braun Methods of Enzymology, Vol. The results are collected in Table VI. Due to an excess of free glycine 1.2 nMol in the protein sample, the corrected value for Gly in Table VI is less reliable. The amount of amino acid residues is calculated on the basis of a total of 215 amino acids corresponding to a molecular weight of 25 KD. 14.1 14.2. 14.3. Digestion with papain using radiolabelled 25 28 KD protein is performed likewise. 15.1 15.2 15.3 Although the IgE BF obtained by this procedure shares many properties with IgE BF from RPMI 8866 cell supernatant Example 11 , it differs with respect to binding to Mab 94 and Mab 135 as revealed in the radioimmunoassays described in Example 24. 15.4 The eluted protein of 25 28 KD is now indistinguishible from 25 28 KD protein obtained from RPMI 8866 cell supernatant Example 12 in the following tests 16.1. 16.2. Wells of polyvinyl chloride microtiter plates are incubated overnight with 200 µl of PBS containing 1 µg ml of a monoclonal antibody clone 175 specific to human IgE. Free binding capacity of the microtiter plate surface is blocked with PBS containing 10 FCS and 0.1 sodium aside. 150 µl of a PBS solution of purified IgE BF of Example 11 of culture supernatant concentrated 100 fold from RPMI 8866 cells containing IgE BF or of RPMI 8226 cells used as negative control are preincubated overnight at room temperature with 50 µl PBS containing 6 x 10⁴ cpm ¹²⁵I labelled IgE specific activity 2.5 x 10⁴ cpm ng . 100 µl of this mixture is added to the anti IgE antibody coated wells after 5 hrs incubation at room temperature the plates are washed and the radioactivity bound to the wells is measured in a Beckman gamma counter. Cell supernatant from RPMI 8866 cells and purified IgE BF of Example 11 inhibit the binding of radiolabelled IgE by 50 and 75 , respectively, as determined in relation to the negative control RPMI 8226 cell supernatant in several experiments. The monoclonal antibody specific to human IgE is produced by a conventional procedure similar to that described in Example 1. Balb c mice are immunized twice with 50 µg IgE PS in Complete Freund Adjuvant at 2 week intervals three weeks after the last injection they receive an additional injection of 50 µg IgE PS in saline. Three days later spleen cells are fused with NSI 1 Ag4 1 myeloma cells. Clones are selected on the basis of RIAs employing IgE and IgG coated polyvinyl chloride microtiter plates and labelled goat anti mouse IgG. The monoclonal antibody is specific to a determinant within the heat labile region of IgE. Bovine erythrocytes are coated with a sub optimal concentration of purified IgE PS from Dr. K. Ishizaka, John Hopkins University, Baltimore, MD . The coated erythrocytes are pre incubated with either control buffer HBSS BSA or test solutions for 60 min at 4 C. RPMI 8866 cells or U 937 cells are added. The preparation is centrifuged at 90 x g and incubated at 4 C for 2 hrs. The cells are examined under a fluorescence microscope after addition of acridine orange as described in Example 9. Affinity chromatography experiments are performed as described in Example 11 or 15 employing purified IgE PS or polyclonal IgG coupled to Sepharose 4B at 4 mg protein per ml gel. Effluents filtrates and eluates are concentrated to the initial volume of the sample and immediately neutralized and dialyzed against HBSS. The purified F ab ₂ fragment of Mab 135 Example 6, 10 mg is dialyzed at 1.0 mg ml overnight against 1 M NaHCO₃. The pH is checked and found to be between 8.2 and 8.6. Biotin succinimide ester Biosearch is dissolved in DMSO just before use at a concentration of 1.0 mg ml. 0.6 ml of this solution are added to the antibody fragment solution, mixed immediately and left at room temperature for four hours. The reaction mixture is dialyzed against PBS containing 10 mmol sodium azide overnight, then stored in a refrigerator. 40 µg Mab 135 are iodinated with 0.5 mCi ¹²⁵I sodium iodide and chloramine T following the general procedure of F.C. Greenwood ¹²⁵I labelled antibody Mab 176 and Mab 94 are prepared similarly. Wells of polyvinyl chloride microtiter plates are incubated overnight at room temperature with 150 µl of 0.01 M carbonate buffer, pH 9, containing 15 µg ml of Mab 176. The plates are then washed and reacted for 2 hrs at room temperature with 200 µl Hanks balanced salt solution containing 10 fetal calf serum HBSS FCS , then again washed and incubated with 100 µl of test sample for 4 hrs at room temperature. The blank is determined by using HBSS FCS. The plates are washed and incubated overnight at room temperature with ¹²⁵I Mab 135 2 to 4 x 10⁵ cpm in HBSS FCS, Example 20 , then washed and counted in a gamma counter. All the washings are performed with PBS 0.15M phosphate buffered saline, pH 7.2 . Culture supernatants derived from Fc Further proof for the specificity of the described RIA for IgE BF as found in B cell supernatants comes from experiments wherein cell supernatants from RPMI 8866 cells known to contain IgE BF are pre treated with IgE Sepharose, IgG Sepharose or ethanolamine Sepharose, respectively. Whereas a clear reduction between 57 and 80 in 4 different experiments of bound radiolabelled Mab is observed in an RIA of IgE Sepharose treated cell supernatant, no significant reduction is found with IgG Sepharose or ethanolamine Sepharose treated cell supernatant. The IgE Sepharose bound IgE BF can be recovered by elution with 0.1 M glycine hydrochloride, pH 2.6, and detected by the RIA. The adsorption of IgE BF on IgE Sepharose is not complete due to the low affinity of IgE coupled to a solid carrier. Wells of polyvinyl chloride microtiter plates are incubated overnight at room temperature with 100 µl of 0.01 M carbonate buffer, pH 9, containing 15 µg ml of Mab 94. The plates are then washed and reacted for 2 hrs at room temperature with 150 µl Hanks balanced salt solution containing 10 fetal calf serum HBSS FCS , then again washed and incubated with 100 µl of test sample overnight at room temperature. The blank is determined by using HBSS FCS. The plates are washed and incubated overnight at room temperature with 100 µl of ¹²⁵I Mab 94 in HBSS FCS 3 x 10⁵ cpm per well, Example 20 , then washed and counted in a gamma counter. All the washings are performed with PBS 0.15 M phosphate buffered saline, pH 7.2 . The selectivity of the described RIA is further demonstrated by the fact that the eluate from colostrum preparation adsorbed on IgE Sepharose is readily detected, whereas a control eluate from colostrum preparation adsorbed on IgG Sepharose does not react. A test kit for the radioimmunoassay described in Example 21 or 22 contains Culture supernatant from RPMI 8866 cells is diluted 1 10 and found to bind 7.5 of ¹²⁵I Mab 135 in the RIA of Example 21, but 0 of ¹²⁵I Mab 94 in the RIA of Example 22. The sample is filtered through a column of Mab 135 Affigel Example 10 . The filtrate does not bind ¹²⁵I Mab 135 0 , whereas the eluate 0.1 M glycine HCl, pH 2.6 binds 8.5 ¹²⁵I Mab 135. A sample of equal size is filtered through a column of Mab 94 Affigel. The filtrate binds 6.9 ¹²⁵I Mab 135, whereas the acid eluate contains no IgE BF 0 binding . Throughout the experiment the filtrates and eluates are adjusted to the same volume to allow a comparison. The total count is approximately 3.5 x 10⁵ cpm. In the corresponding experiment, colostrum diluted 1 5 is found to bind 2.6 of ¹²⁵I Mab 94, but 0 of ¹²⁵I Mab 135. After adsorption on Mab 94 Affigel, 0 ¹²⁵I Mab 94 is bound in the filtrate However, when IgE BF from colostrum purified on Mab 94 Affigel is adsorbed on Mab 30 Affigel Example 15.4 , the filtrate binds 0.2 ¹²⁵I Mab 135 and 0.6 ¹²⁵I Mab 94, and the eluate now 2.56 ¹²⁵I Mab 135, but 0 ¹²⁵I Mab 94. Another colostrum preparation, which is not purified on Mab 94 Affigel, gives 0 binding of ¹²⁵I Mab 135 and 5.75 binding of ¹²⁵I Mab 94. On absorption to Mab 30 Affigel, the filtrate binds 8 ¹²⁵I Mab 135 and 1.95 ¹²⁵I Mab 94, and the eluate 6.4 ¹²⁵I Mab 135 and 0.13 ¹²⁵I Mab 94. Wells of polyvinyl chloride microtiter plates are coated with Mab 176 and blocked with HBSS FCS as described in Example 21. The plates are incubated with 100 µl of test sample for 4 hrs at room temperature, then washed and incubated 4 hrs at room temperature with the Mab 135 fragment biotin conjugate 10 µg ml of Example 19. The plates are washed with PBS,then incubated overnight at room temperature with a 1 3000 dilution of an avidin horseradish peroxidase conjugate 0.3 µg ml of Sigma. The amount of enzyme bound is determined by development 30 min at 37 C with a solution of 2,2 azino bis 3 ethylbenzothiazoline 6 sulphonic acid diammonium salt ABTS, Boehringer Mannheim, 55 mg in 100 ml citrate phosphate buffer 0.05 M citrate 0.1 M Na₂HPO₄, pH 4.0, containing 16 µl of 30 H₂O₂ and by photometric measurement at 405 nm. Likewise, Mab 94 can be used to coat the plates and a Mab 94 biotin conjugate to detect IgE BF from colostrum. A test kit for the ELISA described in Example 25 contains 100 mg of IgE BF purified by affinity chromatography Example 11 or 15 are dissolved in 600 ml of 5N human serum albumin. The resulting solution is passed through a bacteriological filter and the filtered solution is subdivided under aseptic conditions into 100 vials each containing 1 mg of active compound. The vials which are suitable for parenteral administration are preferably stored in the cold, for example at 20 C. In the same manner, vials containing 1 mg of the 25 28 KD protein Example 11 or Example 15 may be prepared by using 100 mg of lyophilized 25 28 KD protein.