# Article dispensing apparatus.

## Abstract
An electronically controlled dispensing machine 10 for articles such as video cassettes has a plurality of in dividual lockable compartments 18 . The compartments 18 have transparent doors 20 through which the articles can be identified. A customer presents a coded data storage token 16 , with a credit amount stored on it to the machine 10 , and selects and removes one or more articles. The machine 10 reduces the credit amount on the token ac cordingly. The articles can be returned to a vacant compart ment in due course, and if the article is returned late, a further amount is deducted from the credit amount on the token 16 . The token 16 is in the form of a key which contains a memory element, and a key receptacle 14 in the machine 10 has contacts for connecting the key memory element to a microprocessor system 30 which controls a solenoid operated latch 24 in each compartment 18 and receives open closed information on the state of the door 20 from a switch 26 and empty occupied information from contacts 28 inside the compartment 18 . A user prompting display 32 is also controlled by the system 30 .

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. An apparatus for dispensing articles comprising a plurality of compartments 18 for storing the articles, each compartment 18 having an electronically controlled lockable door 20 and at least part of an article stored in any compartment 18 being visible from outside the compartment control means 26,30,34 for selectively unlocking the compartments 18 in response to control signals means 14,30 for accepting and reading a token 16 presented by a user of the apparatus, the token 16 having a memory element selection means 29,30 for selecting a desired article and processing means 30 for providing control signals to the control means 26,30,34 in order to unlock the door 20 of a compartment 18 containing an article selected by use of the selection means 29,30 and for transferring information to and from the token 16 , the user removing the selected article from the unlocked compartment 18 , and information relating to the dispensing transaction being stored by the token 16 . 2. An apparatus according to claim 1 characterised in that the apparatus is adapted to receive a previously removed article in a vacant compartment, the door 20 of a selected vacant compartment 18 being unlocked to allow replacement of the article. 3. An apparatus according to claim 1 or claim 2. characterised in that the door 20 of each compartment 18 is at least partially transparent. 4. An apparatus according to any one of claims 1 to 3 characterised in that the token 16 is a data storage key containing an erasable memory element. 5. An apparatus according to claim 1 characterised in that the key 16 is encoded with inforamtion representing a credit amount, the amount being reduced when an article is dispensed and the reduced amount being recorded on the key. 6. An apparatus according to any one of claims I to 5 characterised by including means 30 for detecting improper transactions and for erasing at least part of the information encoded on the token 16 to invalidate the token 16 when an improper transaction is detected. 7. An apparatus according to any one of claims 1 to 6 characterised by including article sensor means for detecting the presence of an article in a compartment. 8. An apparatus according to claim 7 characterised in that the article sensor means 28 comprises electrical contacts arranged to make contact with an electrically conductive portion of an article which has been correctly inserted into the compartment 18 . 9. An apparatus according to any one of claims 1 to 8 characterised by including door sensor means 26 for detecting whether the door 20 of a compartment 18 is open or closed. 10. An apparatus according to any one of claims 1 to 9 in which the article are tape cassettes.

## Description
VIDEO VENDING MACHINE BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTIONThis invention relates to a dispensing machine and in particular to a machine adapted for dispensing video cassettes intended to be used by borrowers using the services of a particular video outlet.Vending machines are well known in the prior art, these generally being of the coin operated type in which the user of a machine inserts a coin to receive a commodity such as a pack of cigarettes, cool drinks or the like.Also well known in the prior art is the new electronic banking system where a client of a particular bank inserts a card which actuates a device to deliver a predetermined or chosen amount of money. Documented prior art of which the applicant is aware includes the following United States patent 4 179 064 Yoshioka et al which discloses a memory holder insertable in an opening of a vending machine. On selection of the appropriate buttons merchandise is discharged from an opening and the information of the selected merchandise is transmitted to the memory holder which is readable by an accounting machine which computes the value of the merchandise. In United States patents 4 297 569 and 4 436 993 Flies data storage devices shaped as keys are described.These key devices store information which is readable by the device into which the keys are inserted, and are also capable of taking in new information.United States patent 4 458 802 McIver et al discloses a method and apparatus for renting video cassettes. A token presented by a customer is retained by the apparatus until the rented cassettes are returned.Alternately, an accounting system which may be linked to a central computer is envisaged for use with this apparatus. The apparatus comprises a carousel mechanism with a number of compartments, each of which holds a video cassette. The cassettes bear an individual code and when a cassette is returned, the apparatus reads the code and identifies the cassette before returning it to its own particular compartment.United States patents 4 414 467 and 4 300 040 Gould et al describe video cassette vending machines in which a terminal enables a card holder to preview cassettes prior to ordering the cassette.United States patent 4 020 326 Coulthurst describes token control equipment in which information about use of a token is recorded. The recorded information is continually updated to keep track of use of the token.SUMMARY OF THE INVENTIONAccording to the invention an apparatus for dispensing articles comprises a plurality of compartments for storing the articles, each compartment having an electronically controlled lockable door and at least part of an article stored in any compartment being visible from outside the compartment control means for selectively unlocking the compartments in response to control signals means for accepting and reading a token presented by a user of the apparatus, the token having a memory element selection means for selecting a desired article and processing means for providing control signals to the control means in order to unlock the door of a compartment containing an article selected by use of the selection means and for transferring information to and from the token, the user removing the selected article from the unlocked compartment, and information relating to the dispensing transaction being stored by the token.The apparatus may be arranged to allow the user to return a previously removed article to a vacant compartment, the door of a selected vacant compartment being unlocked to allow replacement of the article.In a preferred form of the invention the items for display are cassettes and in particular video or audio cassettes. Preferably the unit comprises a freestanding cabinet for storing and displaying video cassettes, with a large part of the front area of the cabinet being divided into a plurality of compartments for displaying cassettes which are arranged in horizontal and vertical rows. Each compartment preferably has a normally locked electronically operated door which is adapted to be unlocked by control means comprising a device such as a solenoid on receipt of a control signal from the processing means.The token preferably comprises a data storage token which is shaped in the form of a conventional key and which includes an electronic memory element for storing and retrieving information An example of a suitable token is that disclosed in United States patent 4 436 993.BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGSAn embodiment of the invention is described by way of example with reference to the accompanying drawings in which Figure 1 is a front view of a video cassette dispensing machine according to the invention Figure 2 is a perspective view of a compartment of the cabinet of Figure 1 Figure 3 is a perspective view of a data storage token or key suitable for use with the dispensing machine ofFigure 1 Figure 4 is a block diagram of electronic processing circuitry for the machine of Figure 1 Figure 5 is a block diagram of an electronic control circuit for a compartment of the machine of Figure 1 andFigure 6 is a diagram of electronic bus circuitry between the compartments and the processing circuitry.DESCRIPTION OF A PREFERRED EMBODIMENTReferring to the drawings a video cassette vending machine 10 comprises a free standing cabinet 12 having a key reader with an insertion aperture 14 for receiving a data storage token or key 16. The cabinet 12 has an upper section divided into a plurality of compartments 18 which are arranged in vertical and horizontal rows. As seen in Figure 2 each compartment 18 has a transparent door 20 which is hinged at a hinge pin 22 and adapted to lock and unlock by a solenoid operated latch 24. Two sensor devices 26 and 28 are provided to sense the opening and closing of the door 20 and the presence of a cassette respectively. A lower section of the cabinet houses the key receiving aperture 14 and a keypad 29. Adjacent the keypad 29 on the front panel of the cabinet 12 is an alphanumeric display 32 which provides information to prompt a user of the vending machine. The key receiving aperture 14 is provided with contacts which make contact with complementary contacts on the shank of the key 16 and which connect an electronic memory element in the key 16 to a microprocessor based processing circuit 30 Figure 4 . Information stored in the memory element, which is an electrically erasable element such as an EEPROM, is thus passed through a serial port into the microprocessor bus. Information from the processing circuit 30 can also be fed into the memory element of the key 16 and stored therein,Figure 5 shows an electronic control circuit together with a solenoid 34 which operates the latch 24 of each compartment to unlock the door 20. Each compartment has its own control circuit which has a unique address code.Also shown in the circuit of Figure 5 are the sensors 26 and 28. Figure 6 shows the layout of the communication bus between the processing circuit 30 and the various control circuits. The processing circuit addresses the control circuits of each compartment on a multiplexed parallel bus.Prior to use of the vending machine 10, a customer of the establishment which operates the machine is provided with a key 16 which is pre programmed with, inter alia, a personal identification number of four digits, a credit amount corresponding to a preselected number of video cassettes, information identifying the customer such as his name and identity number, the number of cassettes which may be taken by the customer at one time and the like. The customer s key is programmed using the machine itself, after a supervisor has first inserted a master key and set the machine to a key initialise mode, and then removed the master key. A blank key is then inserted and by means of the keypad the required data is entered into the machine and the customers key is encoded accordingly.To use the machine 10, a customer approaches the machine and, prompted by the alphanumeric display 32, inserts his key 16. He is then prompted to enter his personal identification number. The machine 10 reads the information in the key 16, and if the information is valid and if the customers identification number corresponds to that read from the key 16, the display 32 prompts the customer to proceed. The customer can identify various video cassettes through the transparent doors 20 of the compartments 18. Each compartment 18 has its own number and by entering that number into the keypad 29, the customer causes the processing circuit 30 to transmit a code which is decoded only by the control circuit of that compartment.An LED next to the number on the compartment selected is then illuminated to confirm to the customer that he has entered the correct number, and the control circuit then energises the solenoid 34 and unlocks the compartment. The customer may then remove the cassette, and close the door. The sensors 26 and 28 ensure that non closure of the door or non removal of the cassette is detected, and the customer is prompted accordingly. In addition, an audible warning device can be provided. The processor circuit 30 monitors the transaction and may trigger an alarm or erase the key 16 if an improper transaction is attempted. The processor circuit also monitors the condition of the doors 20 and an alarm is triggered if a door 20 is forced open.The customer can select further cassettes up to the preset limit. When the transaction is completed, the credit amount stored in the key 16 is reduced according to the number of cassettes removed, and the customer may then remove the key. The vending machine 10 can include a printer to provide a printed transaction record for the customer if this is required.To return a cassette, the customer inserts the key 16 into the aperture 14 and, again prompted by the display 32, selects the number of any vacant compartment, and places the cassette in the compartment and closes the door. The sensor 28, which comprises a pair of electrical contacts, makes contact with a metallic label attached to the cassette container when the cassette is placed in the compartment, so that non return of a cassette is detect. If the cassette is returned after a predetermined time limit has expired, the credit amount stored in the key 16 is further reduced. The machine 10 can be provided with an internal logging printer to record details of all transactions, or it can store a number of transactions, say, the last one hundred transactions, in memory for recall by a supervisor holding a master key. A remote control computer can be used to monitor the operation of a number of vending machines at different locations. A particular advantage of the described vending machine is that it is mechanically simple compared to other proposed machines, since the only mechanical parts are the door lock solenoids. If one solenoid becomes inoperative, the machine can still be used.Another advantage is that the customers token is directly debited by an amount corresponding to the transaction, so that a complex accounting system is not required in the machine.The use of transparent doors on the compartments makes it unnecessary to provide a display of the contents of the machine other than the information e.g. title marked on the cassette and visible to the user from outside the machine, and eliminates the need to correlate a particular cassette with a particular compartment.