# Die bonding electroconductive paste.

## Abstract
A die bonding electroconductive paste for bonding a semiconductor material containing at least one element having the same valency as the valency of the semiconduc tor element to be die bonded, or a compound of that element and a reducing substance, permitting ohmic contact to be effected at a temperature of not less than 100 C.

## Claims
CLAIMS. 1. A die bonding electroconductive paste for bonding a semi conductor material, characterised in that the paste contains a first component comprising at least one element having the same valency as the valency of the semiconductor material to be die bonded or a compound of that element, and a second component comprising a reducing substance, thereby permitting ohmic contact to be effected at a temperature of not less than 1000C. 2. An electroconductive paste as claimed in Claim 1 characterised in that it comprises 5 to 90 by weight of the first component expressed in terms of the element, 0.5 to 50 by weight of the reducing substance, 0 to 80 by weight of finely powdered electroconductive substance, 3 to 45 by weight of a binder, and 0 to 30 by weight of a solvent. 3. An electroconductive paste as claimed in Claim 1 or Claim 2, characterised in that the semiconductor material consists of an element from Group IV, elements of Groups III V, or elements of Groups II VI, in dependence upon the desired valency. 4. An electroconductive paste as claimed in Claim 2 or Claim 3 characterised in that the fine electroconductive powder is gold, silver, copper, nickel, rhodium, palladium, silver palladium or a mixture of any of these metals. 5. An electroconductive paste as claimed in any of Claims 2 to 4 characterised in that the fine electroconductive powder has an average particle diameter of 1 to 20cm. 6. An electroconductive paste as claimed in any preceding claim characterised in that the reducing substance is a metal hydride, a metal carbide,a higher fatty acid, an organic metal compound, an organic silicon compound or hydrazine. 7. An electroconductive paste as claimed in any of Claims 2 to 6 characterised in that the binder is an epoxy resin or a glycol ether. 8. An electroconductive paste as claimed in any preceding claim characterised in that the first component has an average particle diameter of 0.5 to 50cm. 9. An electroconductive paste as claimed in any preceding claim characterised in that the semiconductor material is an element from Group IV and the first component is a tetravalent element comprising one or more of silicon, germanium, carbon, titanium, zirconium, tin, hafnium and lead. 10. An electroconductive paste as claimed in any of Claims 1 to 8 characterised in that the semiconductor material is at element of Groups III V and the first component is a trivalent element comprising one or more or boron, aluminium, scandium, gallium, yttrium, indium, lanthanoids and actinoids with a pentavalent element comprising one or more of nitrogen, phosphorous, vanadium, arsenic, niobium, antimony, tantalum and bismuth. 11. An electroconductive paste as claimed in any of Claims 1 to 8 characterised inthatthesemiconductor material is an element of Groups II VI and the first component is a divalent element comprising one or more of beryllium, magnesium, zinc, cadmium and mercury with a hexavalent element comprising one or more of chromium, molybdenum, tungsten, oxygen, sulphur, selenium and tellurium. 12. An electroconductive paste as claimed in any preceding claim characterised in that it comprises 20 to 60 by weight of the first component, 1 to 10 by weight of the reducing substance, 25 to 60 by weight of fine semiconductor powder, 10 to 30 by weight of binder and 3 to 20 by weight of solvent.

## Description
DIE BONDING ELECTROCONDUCTIVE PASTE. The present invention relates to a die bonding electroconductive paste, for example a die bonding electroconductive paste which permits ohmic contact with a semiconductor material. Known die bonding electroconductive pastes include those produced by blending fine electroconductive powders of such metals as gold, silver, copper, nickel, rhodium, palladium and silver palladium with such heat resistant binders as epopy resin, polyimide, glass glaze, and cement, with or without a solvent. These die bonding electroconductive pastes are used for die bonding semiconductor materials on to substrates. When die bonding with such an electroconductive paste is effected in the case of a semi conductor material intended to allow the flow of a weak current, the die bonded part becomes non ohmic and can only function satisfactorily with difficulty.For the die bonded semiconductor material to produce ohmic contact, therefore, the semiconductor material is reqired to have its rear surface subjected in advance to an undercoat electrode treatment by the vacuum deposition of gold, for example. Furthermore, this contact which is formed elaborately is unstable compared with the contact obtainable by the Au Si eutectic method, for example. It is an object of the present invention to provide a die bonding electroconductive paste capable of permitting ohmic contact with a semiconductor material without requiring any under coat electrode treatment. According to the invention there is provided a die bonding electroconductive paste for bonding a semiconductor material, characterised in that the paste contains a first component comprising at least one element having the same valency as the valency of the semiconductor material to be die bonded or a compound of that element, and a second component comprising a reducing substance, thereby permitting ohmic contact to be effected at a temperature of not less than 100 C. Thus a electroconductive paste in accordance with the present invention may be produced by blending a conventional electroconductive paste with a reducing substance, and at least one element, or compound of an element, having the same valency as the valency of the semiconductor material to be die bonded and therefore having also the ability to match its chemical affinity with the semiconductor. Examples of the material to be added for matching the chemical affinity are as follows such tetravalent elements as silicon, germanium, carbon, titanium, zirconium, tin, hafnium and lead, preferably silicon, germanium, carbon, titanium and zirconium, when the semiconductor incorporates elements of Group IV such as silicon and germanium such trivalent elements as boron, aluminium, scandium, gallium, yttrium, indium, lanthanoids and actinoids, preferably gallium, aluminium, indium and yttrium, and such pentavalent elements as nitrogen, phosphorus, vanadium, arsenic, niobium, antimony, tantalum and bismuth, preferably arsenic, phosphorus, vanadium, tantalum and niobium when the semiconductor incorporates elements of Group I1I V such as potassium phosphorus, gallium arsenic, gallium arsenic phosphorus, galliumaluminium arsenic and gallium aluminiumarsenic phosphorus and such diva lent elements as beryllium, magnesium, calcium, strontium, barium, zinc, cadmium and mercury, preferably zinc and cadmium, and such hexavalent elements as chromium, molybdenum, tungsten, oxygen, sulphur, selenium and tellurium, preferably selenium and tellurium, when the semiconductor incorporates elements of Groups II VI such as sinc sulphur, zinc selenium, sinc tellurium, mercury cadmium tellurium and cadmium tellurium. One member or mixture of two or more members selected from the elements enumerated above can be used in the form of a simple element or compound. When the element to be die bonded is a simple element such as silicon or germanium, at least one element is preferably used for matching the chemical affinity of that simple element.When the element is a composite system such as a combination of elements of Groups III V or Groups II VI, for example, at least one each of the chemical affinity matching elements corresponding to the valencies of the component elements in the combination is preferably used. The amount of the affinity matching component to be used may be 5 to 90 by weight, preferably 20 to 60 by weight, in terms of the simple element or elements, based on the total amount of the electroconductive paste. The component is preferably used in a finely divided simple elemental form, 0.5 to 50cm, preferably 1 to 10 pm, in average particle diameter. When the simple element is gaseous or unstable, it may be used in the form of a stable compound of that element.Examples of this compound are inorganic compounds such as sulphides, nitrides, oxides, carbides and hydrides, and organic compounds. The reducing substance to be used in the electroconductive paste of this invention can be selected from a wide variety of substances. Specific examples include metal hydrides such as CuH2, Hit2, CoH2, Fez2, FeH6 CrH, WH3, TiH4, SiH4, GeH4, ZrH4, HfH4, Na BH4 and Li BH4 , carbidessuch as Al2C6, LaC2, CeC2, NdC2, SmC2, YC2, ThC2, VC2, SiC, TiC, HfC, ZrC, Cr3C2, VCNbC, TaC, Mo2C, MoO, W C, WC, Fe3C and B4C, higher fatty 2 WC, Or4C, acids such as lauric acid, myristic acid, palmitic acid, stearic acid, oleic acid and behenic acid, organic metal compounds such as dimethyl zinc, diethyl zinc, triethyl alumimium, isopropyl aluminium, Grignard reagent, metal salts of naphthenic acid, metal salts of acetic acid, and metal salts of propionic acid, organic silicon compounds, and hydrazine. One member or mixture of two or more members selected from these reducing substances can be used. The amount of the reducing substance to be used may be 0.5 to 50 by weight, preferably l to 10 by weight, based on the total amount of the electroconductive paste. The chemical affinity matching material and the reducing substance described above are preferably blended with any of the conventional die bonding electroconductive pastes. These conventional pastes are generally produced by blending finely divided powders of such metals as gold, silver, copper, nickel, rhodium, palladium and silver palladium and heat resistant binders such as epoxy resin, polyimide, polyamideimide, glass glaze, and cement with or without a solvent. The aforementioned finely divided powder is, for example, finely powdered gold or silver having an average particle diameter of 1 to 20 pm, preferably I to sum. The amount of the electroconductive powder to be used is generally 0 to 80 by weight, preferably 25 to 60 by weight, based on the total amount of the electroconductive paste of this invention. Typical examples of the epoxy resin are epichlorohydrin bisphenol A type, novolak type, ss methylepichlohydrin type, alicyclic types cyclic oxylan type, glycidyl ether type and glycidyl ester type , heteroalicyclic types polyglycol ether type, glycol ether type and epoxidized aliphatic unsaturated compound type , epoxidized animal and vegetable oils, polycarboxylic ester type, aminoglycidyl type, chlorinated type, and resorcin type. Of these examples, preferable are epichlorohydrinbispenol A type and novolak type. The epoxy resin is used in combination with a curing agent.Examples of the curing agent are amines such as diethylene triamine, benzyl dimethylamine, diaminodiphenylamine, diaminodiphenyl sulphon and polyamides, acid anhydrides such as phthalic anhydride, maleic anhydride, hexahydrophthalic anhydride, methyl nadic anhydride, pyrromellitic anhydride and benzophenone tetracarboxylic anhydride, and phenol novolak. The aforementioned binder may be used in an amount of 3 to 50 by weight, preferably 10 to 30 by weight, based on the total amount of the electroconductive paste. For the component described above to be blended in the form of paste, a solvent is preferably used. This solvent is only required to be capable of dissolving the binder. Glycol ethers such as ethylene glycol monomethyl ether, ethylene glycol monoethyl ether, ethylene glycol monobutyl ether are available for epoxy resins and methyl pyrrolidone is available for polyimide, for example. This solvent is generally used in an amount of 0 to 30 by weight, preferably 3 to 20 by weight, based on the total amount of the electroconductive paste. The electroconductive paste may be obtained by putting the components together and thoroughly kneading them. The ohmic contact of the electroconductive paste with a semiconductor material to be die bonded can be obtained by applying the paste onto the semiconductor material without first subjecting the semiconductor material to any undercoat electrode treatment, and then effecting die bonding of the resultant superposed elements at a temperature of not less than 100 C, preferably in the range of 1500C to 25000. Examples of semiconductor elements on which ohmic contact can be obtained includeVLSI, LSI, IC transistor, diode, LED, phototransistor, photo cell, and semiconductor laser. The invention will now be described in more detail with reference to following examples.Example 1. Finely powdered silver average particle diameter not exceeding 10 pm 50 by weight Finely powdered silicon average particle diameter not exceeding 10cm 20 by weight. Epoxy resin a mixture of 10 parts by weight of phenol novolak epoxy with 8 parts by weight of hexahydrophthalic anhydride 20 by weight. Ethylene glycol monobutyl ether 5 by weight. Cobalt naphthenate 5 by weight. In a mortar, the components described above were throughly kneaded to produce a paste like mixture. Through the medium of the electroconductive paste so produced, a silicon diode having no gold treatment given in advance to its rear surface was die bonded to a substrate and then wire bonded. The diode produced was tested for its diode property. The die bonding and post cure was carried out at 1500C for one hour. The diode property was determined by fixing the value of electric current at 10pA and measuring, at the resultant voltage, the voltage and resistance of the die bonded part. The results are shown in Table 1.Controls 1 2 For comparison, a silicon diode having a gold treatment given in advance to its rear surface was diebonded with a conventional silver paste to a substrate Control 1 and a silicon diode having no treatment given to its rear surface was die bonded with a conventional silver paste to a substrate Control 2 . The resultant products were tested for their diode property by following the same procedure as for Example 1.The results are shown in Table 1. TABLE 1.Sample Voltage mV . Resistance a Example 1 2.5 250Control 1 5 500Control 2 200 20,000 It can be seen from Table 1 that by the use of the electroconductive paste of this invention, a silicon diode having more desirable contact resistance than a conventional silicon diode which has undergone an expensive gold treatment can be mass produced at a very low cost. Example 2. Finely powdered silver average particle diameter not exceeding 10cm 30 by weight. Finely powdered germanium average particle diameter not exceeding lOum 40 by weight. Epoxy resin a mixture of 10 parts by weight of phenol novolak epoxy with 8 parts by weight of hexahydrophthalic anhydride 20 by weight. Ethylene glycol monbutyl ether 8 by weight. NiH2 2 by weight. In a mortar, the components shown above were kneaded thoroughly to produce a paste like mixture. Using the electroconductive paste so produced, a silicon phototransistor having no gold treatment given in advance was assembled by following the procedure of Example 1.The product was tested for its transistor property by following the procedure of Example 1. The results are shown in Table 2 In the test, V cc was fixed at l.2V. Controls 3 4 For comparision, a silicon phototransistor having gold treatment given in advance to its rear surface was die bonded with an Au Si eutectic paste to a substrate Control 3 and a silicon phototransistor having no gold treatment given in advance was die bonded with a conventional silver paste to a substrate Control 4 . The products were tested by following the procedure of Example 2. The results are shown in Table 2. TABLE 2. Sample Amperage mA Example 2 480 Control 3 470 Control 4 0 It can be seen from Table 2 that even in the production of silicon phototransistor, the use of the electroconductive paste of this invention results in an advantageous effect and brings into question the necessity for the conventional expensive gold treatment. The experiment has demonstrated that the electroconductive paste of this invention should be effective in the die bonding of all silicon elements such as in IC, LSI or super LSI which have previously required a rear surface treatment. Example 3. Finely powdered silver average particle diameter not exceeding loud 30 by weight. Finely powdered vanadium average particle diameter not exceeding 10cm 20 by weight. Finely powdered potassium average particle diameter not exceeding 10cm 20 by weight. Epoxy resin of Example 1 20 by weight. Ethylene glycol monobutyl ether 8 by weight. CoH2 2 by weight. In a mortar, the components shown above were thoroughly blended to produce a paste like mixture.Using the electroconductive paste so produced, a Ga AlAs diode having no gold treatment given advance was assembled by following the procedure of Example 1. The product thus obtained was tested for its diode property by following the procedure of Example 1. The results are shown in Table 3.Controls 5 6. For comparision, a Ga Al As diodehavinga gold treatment given in advance to its rear surface was die bonded with a conventional silver paste Control 5 and a Ga Al As diode having no gold treatment given in advance was die bonded with a conventional silver paste Control 6 . The products were tested by following the procedure of Example 1. The results are shown in Table 3. TABLE 3. Sample Voltage mV Resistance Cl Example 3 1.8 180 Control 5 3 300 Control 6 1500 150,000 It can be seen from Table 3 that by the use of the electroconductive paste of the present invention, a diode having a more desirable contact resistance than a conventional counter type diode which has undergone an expensive gold treatment can be mass produced at a very low cost.Example 4. Finely powdered silver average particle diameter not exceeding 10cm 50 by weight. Finely powdered germanium average particle diameter not exceeding 10cm 20 by weight. Epoxy resin of Example 1 20 by weight. Ethylene glycol monobutyl ether 5 by weight. ZrH4 5 by weight. In a mortar, the components shown above were thoroughly blended to produce a paste like mixture.Using the electroconductive paste so produced, a germanium diode having no gold treatment given in advance was assembled by following the procedure of Example 1. The product was tested for its diode property following the procedure of Example 1. The results are shown in Table 4. In the text, V cc was fixed at 0.2 V.Controls 7 8 For comparison, a germanium diode having a gold treatment given to its rear surface was die bonded with an Au Si eutectic type paste Control 7 and a germanium diode having no gold treatment given in advance was die bonded with a conventional silver paste Control 8 . The products were tested by following the procedure of Example 2. The results are shown in Table 4. TABLE 4. Sample Amperage mA Example 4 1,500 Control 7 1,450 Control 8 0 Example 5. Finely powdered silver average particle diameter not exceeding 10cm 50 by weight. Finely powdered CdTe average particle diameter not exceeding 10cm 20 by weight. Epoxy resin of Example 1 20 by weight. Ethylene glycol monobutyl ether 5 by weight. CrH 5 by weight. In a mortar, the components shown above were throughly blended to produce a paste like mixture. Using the electroconductive paste so produced, a Cd Te diode N or P having no gold treatment given in advance was assembled by following the procedure of Example 1. The product was tested by following the procedure of Example 1. The results are shown in Table 5.In this test, V cc was fixed at 0.2Controls 9 10 For comparison, a Cd Te diode having a gold treatment given to is rear surface was die bonded with an Au Si eutectic paste Control 9 and a Cd Te diode having no treatment given in advance was die bonded with a conventional silver paste Control 10 . The products thus obtained were tested by following the procedure of Example 2.The results are shown in Table 5. TABLE 5. Sample Amperage mA Example 5 1,200 Control 9 1,180 Control 10 0 It can be seen from the results given above that in all the elements involved, the electroconductive pastes according to the present invention manifest advantageous effects. They are expected to bring about the same effects in integrated circuits.