# A band conveyor.

## Abstract
The conveyor includes adjustable disc springs 25 for biasing together the rollers 2, 3 which grip the band 15 , being adjustable using screw threaded stops 24 from out side the casing, and the driving means includes a torque limiter 7 which is adjustable by means of variably biased friction plates 12 . The casing 1 includes guides 27 for automatically rolling the band on entry and the rollers in clude flanges for lateral guidance. The conveyor is useful in moving industrial workpieces over a cooperating support surface and provides for increased drive to be transmitted to the band whilst preventing damage to the band and to the drive means occuring when the band becomes obstructed by limiting the torque transmitted.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A band conveyor for use in conveying a workpiece over a support means and comprising a band 15 reciprocatingly moveable in use upon the support means, a casing 1 for accommodating a rolled portion of the band, a first and second relatively moveable roller means 2 and 3 , biasing means 25 for urging the respective roller means 2 and 3 together so as to grip the band 15 therebetween, and driving means 9 for driving the first rouer means 2 selectively in either direction of rotation, characterised in that the biasing means 25 is adjustable to provide a variable degree of friction between the respective roller means and the band and in that the driving means includes a torgue limiter 7 . 2. A band conveyor as claimed in Claim 1 characterised in that both the first and second roller means 2 and 3 are driven by the driving means 9 . 3. A band conveyor as claimed in Claim 2 characterised in that the first and second rouer means 2 and 3 each comprise a single roller 2 and 3 and the first and second rollers respectively are connected to first and second gears 6a and 6b whicn mesh to transmit drive from one roller to the other and wherein relative movement of the rollers is accommodated by backlash between the gears. 4. A band conveyor as claimed in Claim i characterised in that the first roller means 2 comprises a single driven roller 2 and the second roller means comprises a plurality of follower rollers 3a, 3b which engage the band at intervals angularly spaced around the axis of the driven roller 2 . 5. A band conveyor as claimed in Claim 4 cnaracterised in that at least one pair of follower rollers are linked so as to share a common biasing means. 6. A band conveyor as claimed in any preceding claims characterised in that the biasing means comprises a plurality of coned springs 25 compressed between each roller or pair of rollers of tne second roller means and respective adjustable stops 24 which are adjustable from outside of the casing. 7. A band conveyor as claimed in any preceding claim characterised in that the torque limiter 7 includes friction plates 12 transmitting drive from a gear 8b , the friction plates 12 being adjustably biased into contact with the gear 8b to facilitate adjustment of the limit of transmitted torque. 8. A band conveyor as claimed in Claim 7 characterised in that the torque limiter 7 comprises a boss 11 secured to a shaft 4 of the first roller means 2 , a gear 8b rotatable on the boss 11 , the gear 8b being rotated by engagement with a mating gear 8a driven by trie driving means 9 , friction plates 12 placed in tight contact with the gear 8b , a coned disc spring 13 biasing the friction plates 12 toward the boss 11 sucr tnat rotation of the gear 8b is frictionally transmitted to tfle boss, and a nut 14 screwed to tne end of the snaft 14 of the first roller means 2 for adjusting the bias exerted by trie spring 13 . 9. A band conveyor as claimed in any preceding daim characterised in that the casing 1 includes guide means 27 for urging trie band into a roll when being driven into trie casing. 10. A band conveyor as claimed in any preceding claim characterised in that the roller means include flanges for laterally guiding the band.

## Description
A BAND CONVEYOR The present invention relates to band conveyors.Band conveyors are known for use in conveying a workpiece over a support means and comprising a band reciprocatingly moveable in use upon the support means, a casing for accommodating a rolled portion of the band, a first and second relatively moveable roller means, biasing means for urging the respective roller means together so as to grip the band theretetween, and driving means for driving the first roller means selectively in either direction of rotation. Such types of band conveyors are widely used in association with workpiece processing machines, such as machine tools, injecting machines, heat treating machines, so as to transport workpieces for continuous operation. An example of the known band conveyors is disclosed in Japanese Utility ModelPublication unexamined No.57 26923, on the invention made by the inventor. To explain this prior art band conveyor in detail, reference will be made to Figure 11 A metal band P rolled Up is accommodated in a chamber V . The metal band P is protruded from the roll, and passed between rollers R1 and R2 , which are rotated in a clockwise and counter clockwise direction. When the two rollers are rotated in one direction, the metal band P is pushed forward, and when they are rotated in another direction, it is retracted into the original roll. A workpiece is placed on the metal band, and transported to the processing machine, wherein the metal band is reciprocatingly moved in a guide groove produced in the support means. Tne rollers R1 and R2 include shafts S1 and S2 , which are connected to each other by means of coil springs H so that the roller R2 is biased toward the roller R1 thereby to compress the metal band However, the strength of the coil springs is limited, and consequently the compressive force of one roller against another is limited. This tends to weaKen the friction drive to drive the metal band P . As a result, the weight and size of the workpiece to be conveyed on the metal band P is limiter. Furthermore, the shaft S1 is connected to a motor M through a gearing G , and the roller R1 is driven by the motor without any intermediate ioad controller. If, for example, a foreign matter, such as cutting chip, is introduced into the guide groove, it is likely to obstruct the metal band from smoothly moving between the rollers. This causes seizure on the metal band or distorts the same. According to the present invention, a band conveyor is cnaracterised in that the biasing means is adjustable to provide a variable degree of friction between the respective roller means and the band and in that the driving means includes a torque limiter. The advantage of this arrangement is that overloading of the driving means and the band when the band is obstructed can be avoided by limiting the frictional force applied to the band and the torque transmitted from the driving means. Conseauentiy the driving force applied to the band may be increased without fear of damage resulting when obstructed. Preferably both the first and second roller means are driven by the driving means so as to impart frictional drive to Dotn sides of the band. Conseouently the band drive is increased. Conveniently the first and second roller means each comprise a single roller and the first and second rollers respectively are connected to first and second gears which mesh to transmit drive from one roller to the other and wherein relative movement of the rollers is accommodated by backlash between tne gears. Alternatively the first roller means comprises a single driven roller and the second roller means comprises a plurality of follower rollers which engage the band at intervals angularly spaced around the axis of the driven roller. In this way the drive to the band is increased by increasing the area over whicn friction is available. Conveniently at least one pair of follower rollers are linked 50 as to share a common biasing means. Advantageously the biasing means comprises a plurality of coned springs compressed between each roller or pair of rollers of the second roller means and respective adjustable stops which are adjustable from outside of the casing. By adjusting the stop position, by screwing in or out for example, the compressive force of the spring and hence the biasing force is adjustable. Preferably the torque limiter includes friction plates transmitting drive from a gear, the friction plates being adjustably biased into contact with the gear to facilitate adjustment of the limit of transmitted torque. In a preferred embodiment the torque limiter comprises a boss secured to a shaft of the first roller means, a gear rotatable on the boss, the gear being rotated by engagement with a mating gear driven by the driving means, friction plates placet in tight contact with tne gear, a coned disc spring biasing the friction plates toward the boss such that rotation of the gear is frictionally transmitted to the boss, and a nut screwed to the end of the shaft of the first roller means for adjusting the bias exerted by the spring. Advantageously the casing includes guide means for urging the band into a roll when being driven into the casing. Conveniently the roller means include flanges for îateraily guiding the band. Particular embodiments of the invention will now be described by way of example and with reference to the accompanying drawings of which Figure 1 is a front view showing a band conveyor embodying the present invention Figure 2 is a vertical cross section through the band conveyor taken along the line II II in Figure 2 Figure 3 is a fragmentary view on an enlarged scale showing the portion indicated by III inFigure 1 Figure 4 is a cross section taken along the lineIV IV in Figure 3 Figure 5 is a fragmentary view on an eniarged scale showing the portion indicated by V in Figure 2 Figure 6 is a vertical cross section through a second example of the embodiment Figure 7 is a vertical cross section through a third example of the embodiment Figure 8 is a cross section taken along the line Vili Vili in Figure 7 Figure 9 is a cross section taken along the lineIX IX in Figure 8 Figure 10 is a cross section on an enlarged scale snowing a main part of the fourth example of the emDodiment and Figure 11 is a vertical cross section showing a prior art band conveyor. The reference numeral 1 denotes a casing in which a pair of rollers 2,3 having the same diameter are provided in its upper space. The rollers 2 and 3 have snafts 4 and 5 which are rotatively supported on the casing 1. The roller snafts 4 and 5 are connected by means of a pair of gears 6a and 6b such that they are rotated at the same speed. The shaft 4 of the lower roller 2 is connected to an output shaft 10 of an electric motor 9 having a speed reducer through a power transmission gearing 8 including a torque limiter 7. The torque limiter 7 includes a boss 11 secured to the lower roller shaft 4, a free moving gear 8b carried on the boss 11, which gear 8b is rotated by engagement with a mating gear 8a located at the side of the motor 9, friction plates 12 placed in tight contact with the free moving gear 8b, a coned disc spring 13 biasing the friction plates 12 toward the boss 11 from the end of the shaft 4, and a nut 14 screwed to the end of the shaft 4. The nut 14 is used to adjust the strength of the coned disc spring 13. There is provided an accommodating chamber 16 under the lower roller 2 in the casing 1, the chamber 16 accommodating a rolled steel band 15. The steel band 15 is pushed forward from and withdrawn to the roll, wherein it passes between the rollers 2 and 3.The rollers 2 and 3 impart friction drive to the steel band 15. Tne reference numeral 17 denotes an exit tnrougn which the steel band 15 is led out of and into tne casing I. Tne lower roller shaft 4 is supported on the upright walls 18 of the casing 1 by means of a needie bearing B . Each uprignt wall 18 is provided with a rectangular opening 19 at a place where the upper roller shaft 5 is supported. In the opening 19 a free moving bearing 20 is carried in such a manner as to move up and down. The free moving bearing 20 carries the upper roller shaft 5 through the needie bearing B . Tne free moving bearing 20 rias a smooth, flat side surface so that it moves up and down along the inside wall 21 of the opening 19. In an upper section of the wall above trie opening 19 a slot 23 is produced to accommodate a stop or spring pusher 24 naving a hexagonal boit. The reference numberal 26 denotes a presser unit placed between the spring pusner 24 and the bearing 20. The presser unit 26 includes a coned disc spring 25, which includes a plurality of coned discs. By turning the spring pusher 24 the free moving bearing 20 is pushed downwards through the presser unit 26.In this way the upper roller 3 is placed in contact with the lower roller 2. The upper roller shaft 5 and lower roller shaft 4 are respectively provided with gears 6a and 6b, which are mutually in engagement. By virtue of a backlash present between the two gears the upper roller shaft 5 can be shifted toward tne lower roller shaft 4 in the range of trie bacRlash. As evident from trie description, bu adjusting the strength of the spring 25 in the presser unit 26 a desired degree of friction drive is imparted to the steel band 15 by trie rollers 2 and 3. When the compression becomes great, a greater frictional force exerts on the steel band, tnereby securing a greater protruding or retracting force to act thereon. When the motor 9 is driven in the clockwise direction, the rollers 2 and 3 are rotated in the counter clockwise and clockwise directions respectively at the same speed. In this way trie steel band 15 is pushed forward, and protruded out of tne casing 1. When the motor 9 is rotated in the counter clockwise direction, the steel band 15 is reversely moved to return into the original roll. If a foreign element or cutting chips are introduced in the patn of the steel band, or if a workpiece placed on the steel band 15 is too heavy, a great frictional force exerts between the rollers 2,3 and the steel band 15. In this case the torque limiter 7 stops the transmission of the friction drive to the rollers 2 and 3, thereby preventing the steel band 15 from slipping therebetween. As best shown in Figure 6, the two upright walls 18 are spaced sufficiently to hold the steel band 15 crosswide so that the side walls provides a guide for allowing the steel band 15 to run straight, triereby eliminating the need for using any core around which the steel band 15 is rolled. Preferably the steel band 15 is previously given a tendency of curling inwards, under which the steel band winds around itself. In this case a guide wall 27 Figure 2 urges the steel band 15 downwards, and herpes it winding into a roll by itself. Figure 6 shows a second example of trie embodiment, which is different from the first example described above in that the upper roller 3 is provided with flanges, and that the gears between the upper roller and the lower roller are eliminated.The upper roller 3 is used as an idler, and the lower roller shaft 4 is connected to the motor 9 having a speed reducer througn the torque limiter 7. Trie lower roller shaft 4 is coaxial with the output shaft 10 of trie motor 9. Figures 7 and 9 show a tnird example of the embodiment, which is different from the embodiments described above, in that trie upper roller 3 is constituted by two rollers 3a and 3b carried on the free moving bearing 20, whicn is biased toward trie axis of tne roller 2 by means of the coned disc spring 25. Under this embodiment the compressive force of each roller 3a, 3b may be small, but as a whole it can be increased.In addition, the steel band 15 is protected against a possible deformation due to an excessive compression, and is kept in full contact with trie peripheral surface of trie lower roller 2, thereby enlarging the contact area. Tnus the steel band 15 is protruded and retracted with a stronger friction drive. Figure 10 shows a four tri example of trie embodiment, which is characterised in that the upper roller 3 comprises two groups each including rollers 3a and 3b, both of which are kept into contact with the lower roller 2 by means of the respective coned disc springs 25, wherein the lower roller 2 is connected to trie motor 9. In tne embodiments described above an electric motor having a speed reducer is used, but instead of it a hydraulic or pneumatic motor can be used. The band conveyor of the invention can convey a relatively heavy workpiece or mold to a wort processing machine, such as a machine tool, an injection machine, a pressing machine. In this case the steel band 15 is provided with a securing means, such as a fastener, a clamp. In anotner application the clamp is attached to the top end of the steel band, tnereby enabling the clamp to shift about. In a further application a sliding door is fixed to tne top end of the steel band 15, whereby an outlet in trie equipment is opened or closed by protruding or retracting the steel band. To enable the steel band to run straight it is preferred to make a guide groove additionally in the groove of T or I shape for guiding the workpiece, or in the side walls of trie path of trie steel band.