# Chiral cyanohydrination process.

## Abstract
Chiral aromatic cyanohydrins are prepared by treating an aromatic aldehyde with cyanide ions in the presence of an inert, aprotic solvent and a chiral cyclo phenylalanyl histidine and an alcohol. The technique is especially useful for reducing the induc tion period when starting up the process, increase the rate of reac tion and to produce a product of increased enantiomeric selectivity.

## Claims
1. A process for the preparation of a chiral cyanohydrin or a mixture enantiomerically enriched therein which comprises treat ing an aromatic aldehyde in an inert, aprotic solvent with cyanide ions in the presence of a cyclo D phenylalanyl D histidine or cyclo L phenylalanyl L histidine dipeptide catalyst and an alcohol.

## Description
Asymmetric synthesis of R mandelonitrile by addition of hydro gen cyanide to benzaldehyde in the presence of a synthetic dipeptide catalyst is known in the art, as in Oku, Jun ichi and Shohei Inoue, The present invention is directed to a process of preparing a chiral aromatic cyanohydrin optically active alpha hydroxynitrile or a mixture enantiomerically enriched therein which comprises treating an aromatic aldehyde with cyanide ions in the presence of an inert, aprotic solvent, a cyclo D phenylalanyl D histidine or cyclo L phenylalanyl L histidine dipeptide as a catalyst and an alcohol. The presence of an alcohol at the startup of the process has several positive effects including reducing the induction period, increasing the rate for conversion of the aldehyde to chiral cyanohydrin, increasing the enantiomeric selectivity of the chiral cyanohydrin product and controlling heat release associated with the addition of cyanide ions. While not limiting the invention in any way, the positive effects on chiral cyanohydrination produced by the presence of an alcohol are believed to be associated with the acceleration of swelling of the dipeptide catalyst when an alcohol is present. Any alcohol that will not interfere with the reaction and in which the catalyst is at least slightly soluble can be used in the process, including alcohols R OH in which the hydrocarbyl group R is alkyl or aralkyl containing up to about 14 carbon atoms optionally substituted by one or more halogen atoms having an atomic number of from 9 to 35 or by alkyl or alkoxy groups in which the alkyl portion contains from 1 to 4 carbon atoms. For example, the alcohol can be alkanol of 1 to 10 carbon atoms, such as, methanol, ethanol, propanol and the like, an aralkyl alcohol containing from 7 to 14 carbon atoms, such as benzyl alcohol, phenylethanol, and the like. In one embodiment, the alcohol is itself a cyanohydrin and therefore is conveniently the same chiral cyanohydrin as the desired product, which in fact, usually is a recycle of a portion of the product chiral cyanohydrin used in the startup of a subsequent process or subsequent batch. Thus the present invention is directed to a process for the preparation of chiral aromatic cyanohydrins optically active alpha hydroxynitriles or a mixture enantiomerically enriched therein which comprises treating the corresponding aldehyde with a source of hydrogen cyanide in a substantially water immiscible, aprotic solvent and in the presence of a cyclo D phenylalanyl D histidine or L phenylalanyl L histidine dipeptide as a catalyst and in the presence of an alcohol. These products of formula I are then optically active, optionally substituted alpha cyano alcohols or a mixture enantiomerically enriched in such an alcohol. The chiral aromatic cyanohydrin products include those of formula I In one embodiment, the alpha hydroxynitrile has the formula II Preferably, the optically active alpha hydroxynitrile products have the alpha S configuration when derived from aldehydes and, therefore, include alpha S alpha hydroxynitriles of the formula III Non limiting examples of alpha hydroxynitriles of the formula I include S alpha cyano 3 phenoxybenzyl alcohol, S alpha cyano 4 fluoro 3 phenoxybenzyl alcohol, S alpha cyano 3 4 fluorophenoxy benzyl alcohol, and the like. In another embodiment of the process, the chiral cyanohydrin has the formula IV Another embodiment of the invention is directed to a process for starting up a process of chiral cyanohydrination in which an aromatic aldehyde is treated with cyanide ions in the presence of an inert, aprotic solvent and a chiral cyclo phenylalanyl histidine catalyst that which comprises adding to the process an alcohol in an amount sufficient to reduce the induction period of the process. A further embodiment of the invention is directed to a process for increasing the conversion rate and enantiomeric selectivity in chiral cyanohydrination of an aromatic aldehyde with cyanide ions in the presence of an inert, aprotic solvent and a chiral cyclo phenyl alanyl histidine catalyst that comprises adding an alcohol in an amount sufficient to increase the rate of conversion of the aldehyde. A substantially water immiscible, aprotic solvent for use in this invention is defined as an aprotic solvent in which the solubility in water is not more than 5 v at the reaction temperature and does not interfere with the reaction . For example, the solvent is a hydro carbon or ether solvent including acyclic, alicyclic or aromatic materials. For example, suitable solvents are alkanes containing from 5 to 10 carbon atoms such as n pentane, n hexane, n heptane, n octane, n nonane, n decane and their isomers. Petroleum fractions rich in alkanes are also suitable, for example, gasoline with a boiling range at atmospheric pressure of between 40 and 65 C, between 60 and 80 C or between 80 and 110 C. Petroleum ether is also suitable. Cyclohexane and methylcyclohexanes are examples of useful cycloalkanes containing from 6 to 8 carbon atoms. Aromatic hydrocarbon solvents can contain from 6 to 10 carbon atoms, for example, benzene, toluene, o , m and p xylene, the trimethylbenzenes, p ethyltoluene and the like. Useful ethers include diethyl ether, diisopropyl ether, methyl t butyl ether and the like. Preferably, the solvent has a boiling point below about 150 C. Preferably, the solvent is an aromatic hydrocarbon, especially toluene, diisopropyl ether or diethyl ether or mixtures thereof e.g. 25 75 of diethyl ether toluene . Toluene gives especially high enan tiomeric excess when the substrate is 3 phenoxybenzaldehyde. Advantages of diethyl ether are that the rate of reaction is increased and the catalyst is not soluble and can be recovered as a solid at the end of the reaction. The amount of catalyst can vary. For example, it can be used in the range of from about 0.1 to about 10 mole percent based upon the weight of the aldehyde present, especially about 1.0 to about 7.5 mole percent. The catalyst is preferably well dispersed in the reaction mixture. The reaction is started up or conducted in the presence of an alcohol in sufficient amount to accomplish the desired result of reducing the induction period, increasing the rate of conversion, increasing the enantiomeric selectivity and or controlling the heat release associated with the addition of cyanide ions and can readily be determined by one skilled in the art but is usually between about 0.1 to about 25 weight based on the weight of the equivalent product chiral cyanohydrin to be produced. The amount may also vary somewhat by which alcohol that is used. When the alcohol is the same chiral cyanohydrin as the desired product, the amount used is from about 3 to about 15 weight based upon the weight of the equivalent product chiral cyanohydrin to be produced. In the case of lower alkanols, e.g. methanol, as little as 0.1 weight will reduce the induction period. The aromatic aldehyde reactant corresponds to the desired chiral cyanohydrin product, e.g., of formulas I, II, III or IV, and preferably, is an aldehyde reactant of the formula V Examples of suitable aldehydes of the formula above include 3 phenoxybenzaldehyde, 4 fluoro 3 phenoxybenzaldehyde, and the like. The source of cyanide ions is hydrogen cyanide or an agent that generates hydrogen cyanide, under the reaction conditions. Hydrogen cyanide itself is preferred. The molar ratio of hydrogen cyanide to aldehyde is from about 1.0 to about 3.0 moles per mole of aldehyde and, preferably, from about 1.1 to about 2.0. The preferred embodiment of the present invention is directed to use of a catalyst for cyanohydrination of aldehydes, comprising a solid chiral cyclo phenylalanyl histidine having a substantially non crystalline component as claimed in co pending U.S. Serial No. 535,500, filed September 26, 1983, and subsequent divisions thereof, and U.S. Serial No. 551,548, filed November 14, 1983 as a continuation in part of U.S. Serial No. 443,763, filed November 22, 1982 now abandoned and also described below. In other words, the catalyst has a component having a sub stantially amorphous or non crystalline structure. While the precise form of this cyclo D phenylalanyl D histidine or cyclo L phenylalan yl L histidine dipeptide is not known, it appears that the activated amorphous or non crystalline form precipitated with a random structure and with a number of the available NH groups in the dipeptide free of intermolecular hydrogen bonding to the available C O groups as compared with the less active crystalline component form where the molecules had time to orient themselves as they were laid down into a highly bonded orderly structure. Such being the case, the degree of amorphousness or non crystallinity is most readily determined by X ray diffraction. The wide angle X ray scattering WAXS measurements were carried out in reflection by means of a Philips APD3600 02 automated X ray diffractometer. The samples were scanned at 20 C in air from 5.0 to 60.0 2ϑ at 0.02 degree increments, and 0.6 second time incre ments with Cu Kα radiation 40KV, 35ma . The percent crystallinity was determined by a modified Hermans and Weidinger method P. H. Hermans and A. Weidinger, As used herein the terms amorphous or non crystalline define active catalyst materials that have about 45 or more of an amorphous or non crystalline component as determined by the area of the X ray diffraction spectra obtained by the method described above. Preferably, the amorphous or non crystalline component of the materials as defined by the X ray diffraction spectra is about 45 to about 65 or higher. Preferably, the amorphous or non crystalline component is about 65 or higher. The catalysts are also analyzable by photomicrographs in which inefficient catalysts consist of agglomerates of fine crystallites. Crystallites are not evidence in photomicrographs of active catalysts, which when, for example, are spray dried, take the form of hollow appearing spheres. Alternative methods are available to define the terms amorphous and non crystalline character as by infrared or nuclear magnetic resonance spectral studies or by swelling of the material, e.g. in contact with the reactants of the cyanohydrination process. Such amorphous or non crystalline catalysts and their preparation are also described in European patent 135,691 and U.S. patent 4,554,102. The reaction to prepare alpha hydroxynitriles is suitably conducted by adding the aldehyde and solvent to the chiral cyclo phenylalanyl histidine dipeptide catalyst, dispersing mechanical grinding or agitating the mixture, e.g. by stirring , adding hydrogen cyanide and maintaining the reaction conditions for an amount of time to effect the formation of the optically active alpha hydroxynitrile. That is, preferably, the hydrogen cyanide is introduced concurrently with or subsequent to the solvent and or aldehyde to increase the conversion and stereoselectivity. The presence of cyanide ions appears to have an adverse effect on the catalyst in this reaction. The forming and maintaining of a well dispersed but not necessarily homogeneous like reaction mixture are useful. Separation and recovery of the optically active ester product are achieved by conventional techniques, including extraction and the like. The temperature of the reaction to prepare the chiral alpha hydroxynitriles as well as the pressure can vary. At normal pressures, the temperature is from about 10 C to about 80 C, more or less. Preferably, ambient temperatures of about 5 C to about 35 C are convenient to give good yield, rate of reaction and enantiomeric excess of the desired optically active product, the lower temperature of about 5 C giving good results. The alpha hydroxynitriles and their corresponding aldehydes are generally known in the literature. The S benzyl alcohols are of interest per se or as intermediates to esters, e.g. of the pyrethroid type, for example, S alpha cyano 3 phenoxybenzyl alcohol in U.S. patent 4,273,727. The S alpha cyano 3 phenoxybenzyl alcohol or mixture enriched therein of the invention, is treated with a carboxylic acid halide, e.g., an S alpha isopropylphenylacetic acid chloride or an optionally substituted chiral cyclopropanecarboxylic acid chloride, to give an optically active cyanomethyl ester or a mixture enriched therein. The cyanomethyl esters for which the optically active form is prepared from one or more chiral cyanohydrins of the process of the invention, have e.g. the formula VI The following embodiments are provided for the purpose of illustrating the invention and should not be regarded as limiting it in any way. The identity of the products was confirmed by infrared and nuclear magnetic resonance spectral analyses. Cyclo D phenylalanyl D histidine catalyst was dispersed in a solution of 3 phenoxybenzaldehyde POAL in toluene and the result ing mixture was treated with 1.25 m Kg of hydrogen cyanide at 5 C under nitrogen. In experiment 2 4, a specified amount of S alpha cyano 3 phenoxybenzyl alcohol, Z, e.g., amount recycled from a pre vious batch was added to the reaction mixture. Results of these experiments are set forth in Table 1 below. Cyclo D phenylanyl D histidine catalyst was dispersed in a solution of 1 m Kg of 3 phenoxybenzaldehyde POAL in toluene and the resulting mixture was treated with 1.25 1.3 m Kg of hydrogen cyanide at 5 C under nitrogen. In experiments 1 3, a specified amount of an alkanol was added to the reaction mixture. Results of these experi ments are set forth in Table 2 below.