# Surgical needle.

## Abstract
A surgical needle 10 50 characterized by having two sharpened ends 20, 25 60, 65 together with a centrally or eccentrically placed eye 30 70 or attached suture, in which the needle may be either straight or curved. Embodiments suitable for use in orthopaedic operations are described.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A surgical needle characterized by having two sharpened ends together with a centrally or eccentrically placed eye aperture in which the needle is 0.5 to 30 cm long and has a radius of curvature from 0.25 cm to infinity. 2. A surgical needle characterized by having two sharpened ends together with a suture attached at a centrally or eccentrically placed site, in which the needle is 0.5 to 30 cm long and has a radius of curvature from 0.25 cm to infinity. 3. A surgical needle according to Claim 1 or Claim 2 in which the material of the needle is substantially rigid. 4. A surgical needle according to Claim I or Claim 2 in which the material of the needle is partially flexible. 5. A surgical needle according to Claim 1 or Claim 2 adapted so as to be used in conjunction with a cannula. 6. A surgical needle according to any of the preceding claims in which the ends of the needle are of trocar type. 7. A surgical needle according to any of Claims 1 to 5 in which the ends of the needle have a cutting edge. 8. A surgical needle according to any of Claims 1 to 5 in which the ends of the needle are tapered. 9. A surgical needle according to any of the preceding claims in which the needle is made of surgical grade stainless steel. 10. A surgical needle according to any of the preceding claims, characterized in that the needle is straight and has length in the range 15 25 cm, with the eye of the needle at 2 3 to 5 7 of the length from one end. 11. A surgical needle according to Claim 10, in which the needle is 20 to 25 cm long and the eye of the needle is 2 3 of the length from one end. 12. A surgical needle according to Claim 10 in which the needle is 9 in long. 13. A surgical needle according to any one of Claims 1 to 9, characterized in that the needle is curved, having two sharpened ends and the eye aperture is placed midway along the length of the needle. 14. A surgical needle according to any of the preceding claims supplied with a pre threaded suture.

## Description
SURGICAL NEEDLE This invention relates to improvements in or relating to surgical needles. Advances in surgery depend in part on the availability to surgeons of instruments suitable for use in confined spaces. It is an object of the present invention to provide a needle for suturing which enables surgical sutures to be inserted in a structure within a confined anatomical site, without the necessity for knotting the sutures externally to that site. The present invention is particularly useful in the repair of lesions of the meniscus of the knee joint, and will accordingly be described in more detail in relation to that field of use. However, its usefulness in other fields will be apparent and it will be understood that the invention is not limited to use only in this context. For example, applications in the fields of urology and laparoscopic abdominal surgery are contemplated. Preferred embodiments of the invention will be further illustrated by the following non limiting examples, with reference to the accompanying figures, in which Figure 1 represents a diagrammatic view of a transverse section through the human knee joint as seen from above Figure 2 represents perspective views of the preferred embodiments of the invention. Figure 3 represents diagrammatically the principle of operation of the needle of the invention Figure 4 represents diagrammatically the use of the straight needle of the invention for repair of a meniscal tear and Figure 5 represents diagrammatically the use of the curved needle of the invention for repair of a tendon. Tears in the meniscal cartilage of the knee joint are among the most common injuries presenting to orthopaedic surgeons. They are particularly common among sportsmen and women, especially footballers. As shown in Figure 1, in each knee there are two meniscal cartilages, the lateral meniscus a and the medial meniscus b . Both of these menisci are vulnerable to tearing or rupture caused by torsional stressSuch meniscal lesions are frequently associated with injuries to the cruciate ligaments Figure lug . Although at one time total or partial meniscectomy was the only available treatment for injuries of this type, it has become recognized that removal of the meniscus leads in many cases to subsequent degeneratjve arthritis of the knee joint Jackson, J.P. Brit. Med. J. 1968 2 525 527 .Although initial attempts at surgical conservation of the meniscus necessitated open surgery of the knee joint Hamberg,P., J. Gillquist, and J. Lysholm J. Bone and Joint Surgery 1983 65A, 193 197 , with consequent risk of infection and prolonged recovery time, more recently it has been shown that it is possible to perform the repair using an arthroscopic technique Barber, F.A. and R.G. Stone J. Bone and JointSurgery 1985 67B 39 41 , employing two needles carrying a single suture thread. Such operations are now commonly performed. Special needle holders are used Barber and Stone, op. cit or alternatively specially designed single or double channeled cannulas Crane, L. Clancy, W.G. J. and B.K. Graf technical papers supplied with products may be used. Meniscal Stitcher instruments are commercially available, for example the Acufex Big Bend stitcher and meniscal stitcher based on the second and third references cited in this paragraph Acufex is a trade mark of AcufexMicrosurgical, Inc., Massachusetts, U.S.A. . All of the above described techniques present two major disadvantages. Firstly, it is not possible to knot the sutures within the joint space, and so the knots must be placed either externally to the joint capsule, Figure lf necessitating a skin incision and dissection down to the capsule, or outside the skin over a sponge and button. The latter may result in chafing and maceration of the skin. Secondly, the sites of egress of the needle from the joint are limited by the necessity to avoid damage to structures such as the popliteal artery Figure lc and the common peroneal nerve Figure ld . I have now developed a surgical needle which overcomes the limitations presented by those heretofore known. According to one preferred embodiment of the present invention there is provided a surgical needle 10 having two sharpened ends 20,. 25 together with a centrally Or eccentrically placed eye apertur 30. This is illustrated in Figure 2a. According to a second preferred embodiment, there is provided an atraumatic needle having two sharpened ends, in which the suture material is attached to the needle at a centrally or eccentrically placed site. The material of the needle may be substantially rigid. Alternatively it may be partially flexible, so as to allow the needle to be used optionally in conjunction with a slightly curved cannula. The ends of the needle may be of trocar type, or have a cutting edge. Preferably the needle is made of surgical grade stainless steel. A large range of sizes of needle may be used, depending upon the particular site of surgery, ranging from approximately 0.5 cm for microsurgical applications to 20 15 cm for orthopaedic surgery. According to one particularly preferred embodiment, the needle is straight and has length in the range 15 25 cm, with the eye of the needle at approximately 2 3 to 5 7 of the length from one end. Preferably the length is 18 cm. According to a second particularly preferred embodiment, the needle 50 is curved, having two sharpened ends 60, 65 and the eye aperture 70 placed midway along. the length of the needle. This is illustrated in Figure 2b. A wide range of radii of curvature may be used from approximately 0.25 cm to infinity. The ends of the needle may be of trocar type or have a cutting edge. The needle is suitable for use with any known type of suture material. The present invention supplies a long felt want with its capacity, simplicity and reliability, and it constitutes a significant advance in the procedures of tissue repair in a confined space. Figure 3 shows the advantage of the eccentrically placed eye aperture of one preferred embodiment of the invention. If the needle is passed into the knee joint through a cannula into the anterior medial aspect of the knee until the eye of the needle just leaves the skin on the posterior lateral side of the knee, the suture can be pulled through to the outside. However, the needle itself remains partly within the joint capsule Figure 3a . The needle can then be passed back to the anterior medial side of the knee, thus reversing the manoeuvre, with the needle again remaining partly inside the joint capsule Figure 3b .Example 1 Repair of a Peripheral Tear in the Lateral Meniscus The straight needle, carrying a suture previously knotted at one end, is inserted via the end distal from the eye into the knee joint at the anterior medial aspect of the joint. Entry may be either directly through the skin, or more conveniently may be via the arthroscopic entry portal. Optionally a cannula may be used for greater accuracy in directing the needle. Under arthroscopic control using either direct vision or television monitor control, the tip of the needle is advanced until it reaches the medial side of the tear Figure 4a . The needle is then pushed through the meniscus and advanced so that the trailing tip of the needle remains inside the joint capsule, and the eye of the needle is just outside the skin of the knee on the lateral side, as shown in Figure 4b. The free end of the suture is pulled through to the exterior of the knee, as shown in Figure 4c. The needle is then pushed back through the meniscus in the reverse direction until the eye of the needle is just outside tli ski and Lh a tip of the longer arm of the needle is just adjacent to the meniscus, as shown in Figure 4d. Optionally the tip of the needle may remain within the meniscal tissue. The suture is pulled through to the exterior of the knee as before.The procedure is repeated as many times as required to repair the tear, as shown in Figure 4e. Knots may be tied in the suture at intervals, either by passing the needle through a loop in the suture Figure 4f , or, if the suture is not a monofilament material, by passing the needle through the suture material itself. Other methods of forming knots in the suture may also be used. The knots thus formed are within the joint itself. A further advantage of the use of the needle of the present invention for such procedures is that if a structure such as a nerve, tendon or blood vessel is traversed by the needle, the suture may be pulled through without further damage to that structure.Example 2 Repair of Ligaments or Tendons Ligaments or tendons may be repaired by similar procedures to those described in Example 1, using either straight or curved needles according to the present invention.In the case of tendons in the hand, repair may be effected using the needle of the present invention without opening or suturing the tendon sheath. Although the preferred embodiments of the invention have been described in detail it will be understood that many variations in the specific details thereof will be obvious to persons skilled in the art and the invention in its broader aspects contemplates all such variations falling within the more general disclosure hereinabove. Example 3 Repair of Rotator Cuff Ligament in the Shoulder The needle either straight or curved is passed through the skin either directly or via a cannula into the subacromial space. Using either direct vision or orthroscopic control, the needle is directed at the rotator cuff ligament from one side of the tear to the other. The tear is stitched as described for meniscus in Example 1. Interrupted sutures may be used.Example 4 Repair of Tendons Tendons may be sutured preferably using the curved needle according to the invention, either in an open procedure or under arthroscopic control. The needle is first passed through one cut end of the tendon, exiting from the side of the tendon Figure 5a . With the trailing tip of the needle still inside the tendon, the direction of the needle is changed as shown in Figure 5c and d. The dotted line represents the path of the suture.The needle is then passed through the tendon to the other side as shown in Figure Sd and e, so that the trailing tip of the needle again remains within the tendon. The direction of the needle is changed again so that the leading tip is directed at the cut end of the tendon Figure Sf and g . The same procedure is repeated for the other cut end of the tendon. By this procedure the suture material is entirely retained within the tendon tissue, and is invisible. The final knot may be tied between the cut ends so that the knot is also hidden Figure 5h .