# 7 Thiabicycloheptane substituted ethers.

## Abstract
Bicycloheptane substituted ether prosta glandin analogs are provided having the structural formula The compounds are cardiovascular agents useful, for example, in the treatment of thrombotic disease.

## Claims
1. A compound of the structure including all stereoisomers thereof, wherein A is CH CH or CH₂ CH₂ n is 0 to 8 n is 0 or 1 p is 1 to 4 X is O or , wherein q is 0, 1 or 2 R is H, lower alkyl, alkali metal or tris hydroxymethyl aminomethane and R¹ is lower alkyl, aryl, arylalkyl, cycloalkyl, cycloalkylalkyl, lower alkenyl or lower alkynyl.

## Description
The present invention relates to thiabi cycloheptane substituted ether prostaglandin analogs which are cardiovascular agents useful, for example, in the treatment of thrombotic disease. These compounds have the structural formula Thus, the compounds of the invention include the following types of compounds The term lower alkyl or alkyl as employed herein by itself or as part of another group includes both straight and branched chain radicals of up to 12 carbons, preferably 1 to 8 carbons, such as methyl, ethyl, propyl, isopropyl, butyl, t butyl, isobutyl, pentyl, hexyl, isohexyl, heptyl, 4,4 dimethylpentyl, octyl, 2,2,4 trimethylpentyl, nonyl, decyl, undecyl, dodecyl, the various branched chain isomers thereof, and the like as well as such groups substituted with halo, such as F, Br, Cl or I or CF₃ hydroxy alkylamino alkanoylamino arylcarbonylamino nitro cyano thiol alkylthiol alkoxy aryl alkyl aryl haloaryl cycloalkyl or alkylcycloalkyl. The term cycloalkyl by itself or as part of another group includes saturated cyclic hydrocarbon groups containing 3 to 12 carbons, preferably 3 to 8 carbons, which include cyclo propyl, cyclobutyl, cyclopentyl, cyclohexyl, cycloheptyl, cyclooctyl, cyclodecyl and cyclodo decyl, any of which groups may be substituted with 1 or 2 halogens, 1 or 2 lower alkyl groups lower alkoxy groups 1 or 2 hydroxyl groups 1 or 2 alkylamino groups 1 or 2 alkanoylamino groups 1 or 2 arylcarbonylamino groups 1 or 2 amino groups 1 or 2 nitro groups 1 or 2 cyano groups 1 or 2 thiol groups and or 1 or 2 alkylthio groups. The term aryl or Ar as employed herein by itself or as part of another group refers to monocyclic or bicyclic aromatic groups containing from 6 to 10 carbons in the ring portion, such as phenyl, naphthyl, substituted phenyl or substituted naphthyl wherein the substituent on either the phenyl or naphthyl may be 1 or 2 lower alkyl groups, 1 or 2 aryl groups, 1 or 2 halogens Cl, Br or F 1 or 2 hydroxy groups 1 or 2 lower alkoxy groups 1 or 2 nitro groups 1 or 2 cyano groups 1 or 2 thiol groups and or 1 or 2 alkylthio groups. In addition, the aryl group may be substituted with 1 or 2 NR²R³ groups or 1 or 2 The term aralkyl , aryl alkyl or aryl lower alkyl as used herein by itself or as part of another group refers to lower alkyl groups as discussed above having an aryl substituent, such as benzyl. The term lower alkenyl as used herein by itself or as part of another group refers to straight or branched chain radicals of 2 to 12 carbons, preferably 2 to 6 carbons in the normal chain, which include one double bond in the normal chain, such as 2 propenyl, 3 butenyl, 2 butenyl, 4 pentenyl, 3 pentenyl, 2 hexenyl, 3 hexenyl, 2 heptenyl, 3 heptenyl, 4 heptenyl, 3 octenyl, 3 nonenyl, 4 decenyl, 3 undecenyl, 4 dodecenyl and the like. The term lower alkynyl as used herein by itself or as part of another group refers to straight or branched chain radicals of 2 to 12 carbons, preferably 2 to 6 carbons in the normal chain, which include one triple bond in the normal chain, such as 2 propynyl, 3 butynyl, 2 butynyl, 4 pentynyl, 3 pentynyl, 2 hexynyl, 3 hexynyl, 2 heptynyl, 3 heptynyl, 4 heptynyl, 3 octynyl, 3 nonynyl, 4 decynyl, 3 undecynyl, 4 dodecynyl and the like. The term halogen or halo as used herein by itself or as part of another group refers to chlorine, bromine, fluorine or iodine, with chlorine being preferred. The terms CH₂ Preferred are those compounds of formula I wherein A is CH CH or CH₂ CH₂ , n is 2 to 4, p is 1, X is O or S, R is H, and R¹ is lower alkyl, such as hexyl, aryl, such as phenyl, or aralkyl such as benzyl. The various compounds of the invention may be prepared as outlined below. The 7 thiabicycloheptane ether compounds of formula I of the invention wherein X is O, p is 1, A is CH CH or CH₂ CH₂, and n is 0 to 8, that is, Compounds of the invention wherein X is O, A is CH₂ CH₂ and n is 0 to 8 may be prepared by subjecting acid IG to hydrogenation by treating IG with hydrogen in the presence of a catalyst such as palladium on carbon and inert solvent such as tetrahydrofuran or ethyl acetate to form acid IH Compounds of formula I wherein X is S, A is CH CH, p is 1 may be prepared by starting with the hydroxymethyl compound IIB Ester IV may then be hydrolyzed by treating with strong alkali metal base and then neutralizing with a strong acid, as described hereinbefore, to form the acid Compounds of the invention wherein p is 1, X is S, A is CH₂ CH₂ and n is 0 to 8 may be prepared by subjecting the hydroxymethyl compound IIB to hydrogenation by treating IIB with hydrogen in the presence of a catalyst such as palladium and an inert solvent such as tetrahydrofuran to form hydroxymethyl compound IIC Compounds of formula I wherein p is 2 to 4 may be prepared by subjecting hydroxymethyl compound II wherein A is CH CH or hydroxymethyl compound IIC wherein A is CH₂ ₂ Compounds of formula I of the invention wherein X is O and S O Compounds of formula I of the invention wherein X is S and S O The starting hydroxymethyl compound II may be prepared according to the following reaction sequences. To form compounds of formula I wherein X is The tris hydroxymethyl aminomethane salt of any of the acids of formula I of the present invention is formed by reacting a solution of such acid in an inert solvent such as methanol with tris hydroxymethyl aminomethane and thereafter the solvent is removed by evaporation to leave the desired salt. The compounds of this invention have four centers of asymmetry as indicated by the asterisks in formula I. However, it will be apparent that each of the formulae set out above which do not include asterisks still represent all of the possible stereoisomers thereof. All of the various stereoisomeric forms are within the scope of the invention. The various stereoisomeric forms of the compounds of the invention, namely, cis exo, cis endo and all trans forms and stereoisomeric pairs may be prepared as shown in the working Examples which follow and by employing starting materials and following the procedures as outlined in U. S. Patent No. 4,143,054. Examples of such stereoisomers are set out below. The nucleus in each of the compounds of the invention is depicted as The compounds of this invention are cardiovascular agents useful as platelet aggre gation inhibitors, such as inhibiting arachidonic acid induced platelet aggregation e.g., for treatment of thrombotic disease, such as inhibiting coronary or cerebral thromboses and in inhibiting bronchoconstriction as induced by asthma. They are also selective thromboxane A₂ receptor antagonists, e.g., having a vasodilatory effect for treatment of myocardial ischemic disease, such as angina pectoris. The compounds of the invention are also thromboxane synthetase inhibitors and thus may also be used for preventing gastrointestinal ulcer formation. They also increase the amount of endogenous prostacyclin PGD₂ and therefore may be used for controlling tumor cell metastasis or as antihypertensive agents. The compounds of the invention are also arachidonic acid cyclooxygenase inhibitors. In addition, the compounds of the invention are useful as analgesic agents in the manner of aspirin and indomethacin as indicated by reaction thresholds to pressure in edematous hindpaws Ref Winter et al, J. Pharmacol, Exp. Ther. 150 165, 1965 and as antiinflammatory agents in mammals, as indicated by carrageenin induced edema in the rat Ref Winter et al., J. Pharmacol., Exp. Ther. 141 369, 1963 . They may be used to decrease joint swelling, tenderness, pain and stiffness in conditions such as rheumatoid arthritis. The compounds of this invention may also be used in combination with a cyclic AMP phosphodiesterase PDE inhibitor such as theophylline or papaverine in the preparation and storage of platelet concentrates. The compounds of the invention can be administered orally or parenterally to various mammalian species known to be subject to such maladies, e.g., humans, cats, dogs, and the like in an effective amount within the dosage range of about 1 to 100 mg kg, preferably about 1 to 50 mg kg and especially about 2 to 25 mg kg on a regimen in single or 2 to 4 divided daily doses. The compounds of the invention may also be administered topically to any of the above mammalian species in amounts of from about 0.1 to 10 mg kg in single or 2 to 4 divided daily doses. The active substance can be utilized in a composition such as tablet, capsule, solution or suspension containing about 5 to about 500 mg per unit of dosage of a compound or mixture of compounds of formula I. They may be compounded in conventional matter with a physiologically acceptable vehicle or carrier, excipient, binder, preservative, stabilizer, flavor, etc. as called for by accepted pharmaceutical practice. Also as indicated in the discussion above, certain members additionally serve as intermediates for other members of the group. The following Examples represent preferred embodiments of the invention. Unless otherwise indicated, all temperatures are expressed in degrees Centigrade. 1 Acetoxy 1,3 butadiene 150 g, 1.338 mole was added to p quinone 131 g, 1.213 mole in CCl₄ 100 ml and diisopropyl ether 350 ml . The reaction was heated in a steam bath with occasional swirling, until the reaction became homogeneous. The reaction was allowed to cool to 35 C. The reaction was then heated at reflux for one hour and concentraed Cf J.O.C. 1964 1341 1348, I. A. Kaye and R. S. Matthews. Part A compound 146 g, 0.657 mole was dissolved in MeOH 1000 ml and CH₂Cl₂ 500 ml . The reaction was cooled to 30 C 35 C. NaBH₄ 18.3 g, 0.495 mole was added in portions under mechanical stirring. Stirring was continued for 2 hours at 30 C 35 C after completion of the addition. The reaction was gradually warmed to 15 C. Then, NH₄Cl solution NH₄Cl, 35 g in H₂O, 150 ml was added. The reaction was vigorously stirred for 30 minutes at 15 C, and concentrated Cf J.O.C. 1964 1341 1348. I. A. Kaye and R. S. Matthews. Part B diol 50 g, 0.221 mole was suspended in pyridine 250 ml and cooled to 0 C. Mesyl chloride 50 ml, 0.646 mole was added dropwise. Stirring was continued at 0 C for one hour. The reaction was gradually warmed to room temperature and left overnight. The reaction was poured into ice 500 ml and stirred for one hour. The resulting white precipitate was harvested and washed with water until the wash became neutral NH₄Cl 50 ml were added to the residue. The products were extracted with EtOAc 1500 ml, 300 ml x 2 . The combined EtOAc layers were washed with brine 150 ml and dried over Na₂SO₄. Filtration and evaporation of solvents gave a pale yellow oil 161 g , which was redissolved in MeOH 300 ml and concentrated to remove a possible impurity of boric acid. The resulting pale yellow oil 158 g upon heating in diisopropyl ether 800 ml under vigorous agitation, solidified. The solids were harvested, washed with diisopropyl ether 100 ml to give white solids 116 g . The mother liquor and the wash were combined, and concentrated Cf J.O.C. 1964 1341 1348. I. A. Kaye and R. S. Matthews. Part B diol 50 g, 0.221 mole was suspended in pyridine 250 ml and cooled to 0 C. Mesyl chloride 50 ml, 0.646 mole was added dropwise. Stirring was continued at 0 C for one hour. The reaction was gradually warmed to room temperature and left overnight. The reaction was poured into ice 500 ml and stirred for one hour. The resulting white precipitate was harvested and washed with water until the wash became neutral pH 5 . The white solids were dried in a heated vacuum oven at 40 C 50 C. The desired title dimesylate product 75 g, 0.196 mole, 88 was obtained. Cf J.O.C. 1964 1341 1348 , I. A. Kaye and R. S. Matthews. Part C dimesylate 72 g, 0.188 mole was dissolved in CH₂Cl₂ 540 ml and MeOH 208 ml . After the solution was cooled to 78 C, O₃ was introduced until the reaction became blue. An excess of O₃ was purged with a stream of O₂ for 20 minutes, followed by N₂ for 30 minutes. Dimethyl sulfide 29.2 ml was added and the reaction was warmed to 30 C gradually. Additional MeOH 400 ml was added and the reaction was stirred for 30 minutes at 30 C. Then NaBH₄ 14.8 g, 0.4 mole was added portionwise over 20 minutes. The reaction was gradually warmed to 10 C and stirred for one hour. NH₄Cl 53 g in H₂O 150 ml was added and the reaction was concentrated Anal Calcd for C₁₂H₂₄O₉S₂ C, 38.28 H, 6.42 S, 17.03 Found C, 38.31, H, 6.46 S, 16.97 Anal Calcd for C₁₅H₂₈O₉S₂ C, 43.25 H, 6.77 S, 15.39 Found C, 43.35 H, 6.84 S, 15.35 DMSO 5.08 ml in CH₂Cl₂ 30 ml was added dropwise to oxalyl chloride 2.296 ml in CH₂Cl₂ 100 ml at 78 C. The reaction was stirred at 78 C for 15 minutes, followed by addition of Part G alcohol 10 g in CH₂Cl₂ 100 ml very slowly. Stirring was continued for 15 minutes at 78 C, then Et₃N 17.5 ml was added dropwise at 78 C and the reaction was gradually warmed to room temperature. Water 100 ml was added and the water layer separated was further extracted with CH₂Cl₂ 240 ml x 2 . The combined CH₂Cl₂ layers were washed with H₂O 120 ml x 3 and dried over MgSO₄. Filtration and evaporation of solvent gave a pale straw colored oil, which was dried by azeotropic distillation with benzene several times. Title aldehyde in the form of a pale straw colored foam 10.1 g was obtained. This was used for the subsequent reaction without any purification. To 4 carboxybutyl triphenylphosphonium bromide 15.948 g, 36 mmole suspended in THF 150 ml was added KO t amylate in toluene 1.6 M, 45 ml dropwise at room temperature. After stirring for 6 hours at room temperature, a burgundy colored solution was obtained. Part H aldehyde crude product, 10.1 g, 24 mmole dissolved in THF 20 ml was cooled to 30 C 40 C. The ylid solution 190 ml was added dropwise over 40 minutes. The reaction was stirred at 40 C for one hour and at room temperature overnight. The reaction was quenched with saturated NH₄Cl 40 ml and brine 50 ml . The products were extracted with EtOAc 400 ml, 200 ml x 3 , which was dried over MgSO₄. Filtration and evaporation of solvents gave a straw colored oil 15.3 g . This was suspended in Et₂O and treated with CH₂N₂ until the desired acid was esterified. The solvent was evaporated off To Part J compound 5.59 g, 13.45 mmole dissolved in MeOH 56 ml was added NaIO₄ 2.19 g, 10.1 mmole suspended in H₂O 4 ml was added to Part K diol 3.5 g, 9.2 mmole in MeOH 36 ml at 0 C. Stirring was continued for 1.5 hours at room temperature. 10 Na₂S₂O₃ 10 ml was added to the reaction. The reaction was stirred for 10 minutes, and poured into Et₂O 100 ml and H₂O 20 ml . The products were extracted into the Et₂O layer. The water layer was further extracted with Et₂O 50 ml x 3 . The combined Et₂O layers were washed with brine 50 ml and dried over MgSO₄. Filtration and evaporation of solvents gave a pale yellow oil 3.1 g . The crude products were used for the subsequent reaction. CH₃COSH 9 m. 0.102 mole and Et₃N 9 ml, 0.065 mole were added to the crude Part L product 3.1 g, 9 mmole in CH₂Cl₂ 230 ml at 20 C. The reaction was stirred for four hours at 20 C 10 C and one hour at 10 0 C. The reaction was poured into saturated NaHCO₃ and the products were extracted into CH₂Cl₂. The water layer was further extracted ith CH₂Cl₂ 100 ml x 3 . The combined CH₂Cl₂ layers were washed with saturated NaHCO₃ and brine and dried over MgSO₄. Filtration and evaporation of solvent gave a crude oil 4.1 g . The crude oil 4.1 g was dissolved in MeOH 300 ml, dried over Mg OMe ₂ and treated with To Part J mesylate 3.01 g, 6.43 mmole dissolved in toluene 30 ml was added 1,8 diaza bicyclo 5.4.0 undec 7 ene DBU 5.5 g, 36 mmole . The reaction was warmed to 80 C under magnetic stirring for 18 hours. The reaction was poured into Et₂O 130 ml and washed with 0.5 N HCl 30 ml . The HCl wash was re extracted with Et₂O 70 ml . The combined Et₂O layers were washed with 0.5 N HCl 30 ml , H₂O 30 ml x 3 and dried over MgSO₄ . Filtration and evaporation of the solvent gave a straw colored oil 2.4 g , which was purified by SiO₂ column silica 60, 80 g eluted with Et₂O petroleum ether ½ to give title thioacetate 1.41 g, 3.8 mmole, 58 and disulfide described in Part O 0.58 g, 1.6 mmole, 25 as colorless oils. Solid NaOMe 84 mg, 1.6 mmole was added to a magnetically stirred solution of Part N thioacetate 580 mg, 1.6 mmole in MeOH 58 ml at room temperature. Hydrolysis of thioacetate was completed in 2 hours at room temperature. O₂ was then bubbled through the reaction for 2 days. Saturated NH₄Cl 10 ml and saturated CuSO₄ 100 µl were added and O₂ was again bubbled through the reaction to complete disulfide formation. The reaction was concentrated Anal Calcd for C₃₄H₅₄O₈S₂ C, 62.35 H, 8.31 S, 9.79 Found C, 62.28, H, 8.19 S, 9.77 SO₂Cl₂ 63 µl, 0.784 mmole in CH₂Cl₂ 5 ml was added dropwise to a magnetically stirred solution of Part O disulfide 515 mg, 0.783 mmole in CH₂Cl₂ 7.8 ml at 78 C over 30 minutes. Stirring was continued for 2 hours at 78 C. 10 Na₂S₂O₃ 10 ml and saturated NaHCO₃ 10 ml were added and the reaction was warmed to room temperature. The reaction was poured into CH₂Cl₂ 50 ml and the products were extracted into the CH₂Cl₂ layer. The water layer was further extracted with CH₂Cl₂ 50 ml x 2 . The combined CH₂Cl₂ layers were washed with H₂O 30 ml x 2 and dried over MgSO₄. Filtration and evaporation of solvent gave a colorless oil 568.5 mg, quantitative recovery . ZnCl₂ 313.2 mg, 2 mmole and NaCNBH₃ 285 mg, 4 mmole were dried under vacuum and heated 50 60 C for 20 minutes. Then Et₂O 20 ml was added and the reaction was stirred for 30 minutes at room temperature, followed by an addition of Et₃N 320 µl, 2.3 mmole . After 30 minutes stirring at room temperature, Part P chloride crude products, 568.5 mg in Et₂O 10 ml was added at room temperature. The reaction was stirred overnight at room temperature. Saturated NaHCO₃ 3 ml was added and the reaction was poured into Et₂O 100 ml . The products were extracted into the Et₂O layer. The water layer was further extracted with Et₂O 100ml . The combined Et₂O layers were washed with saturated NaHCO₃ 25 ml , H₂O 25 ml x 2 and dried over MgSO₄. Filtration and evaporation of the solvent gave a colorless oil, which was purified by silica gel column Baker silica gel for flash chromatography, 20 g eluted with Et₂O petroleum ether ¼ to give the desired title product 379 mg, 1.155 mmole, 74 from part O disulfide. Anal Calcd for C₁₇H₂₈O₄S C, 62.16 H, 8.59 S, 9.76 Found C, 62.13 H, 8.42 S, 9.67 Acetal prepared as described in Part Q 850 mg, 2.59 mmol was dissolved in acetone 20 ml and 37 formaldehyde solution 53 ml . The solution was cooled in an ice bath and distilled CF₃COOH 7.4 ml was added. After stirring at 0 5 C for 8 3 4 hours, saturated NaHCO₃ solution was added until no more gas evolution was observed. The product was extracted into ether 3 x 150 ml , washed with water 3 x 75 ml , dried MgSO₄ , filtered and freed of solvent The oil mixture from Part R was dissolved in methanol 30 ml and cooled to 0 C. NaBH₄ 98 mg, 2.59 mmol was added portionwise. After stirring at 0 C for 20 minutes, most of the MeOH was removed Anal Calcd for C₁₅H₂₄O₃S C, 63.35 H, 8.51 S, 11.27 Found C, 63.48 H, 8.56 S, 11.07 TLC silica gel, Et₂O pet ether 1 1, UV vanillin, R A mixture of powdered KOH 450 mg, 8.05 mmol in dry xylene 13 ml was heated to reflux and 6.5 ml of solvent was distilled off. To the hot solution was added a mixture of Part S alcohol ester 241 mg, 0.848 mmol and n hexyl methane sulfonate 1.0 g, 5.55 mmol in 12 ml of dry xylene. Xylene was again distilled off 7 ml at which point a large amount of solid had precipi tated. Xylene 10 ml and n hexyl methanesulfonate 0.5 g were added and the mixture was heated under reflux an additional 60 minutes. After cooling, the mixture was partitioned between saturated NH₄Cl solution 20 ml and EtOAc 20 ml . The layers were separated and the aqueous layer was acidified to pH 2 with 1 TLC silica gel, Et₂O hexane 1 4, UV I₂, R The Example 1 hexyl ester 1β,2α Z ,3α,4β 7 3 hexyloxy methyl 7 thiabicyclo 2.2.1 hept 2 yl 5 heptenoic acid, hexyl ester 221 mg, 0.50 mmol was dissolved in distilled THF 18 ml in an argon atmosphere. 1 Anal Calcd for C₂₀H₃₄O₃S C, 67.75 H, 9.67 S, 9.04 Found C, 67.92 H, 9.57 S, 8.89 TLC silica gel, 5 MeOH in CH₂Cl₂, UV PMA, R Example 2 acid 69.2 mg, 0.195 mmol was dissolved in methanol 8 ml and the solution was cooled in an ice bath. A solution of NaIO₄ 46 mg, 0.21 mmol in water 3 ml was added. The mixture was left stirring overnight at room temperature. A 10 solution of Na₂S₂O₃ 1.5 ml was added and the methanol was removed Anal Calcd for C₂₀H₃₄O₄S C, 64.82 H, 9.24 S, 8.65 Found C, 64.43 H, 9.17 S, 8.55 TLC Silica gel, 5 MeOH in CH₂Cl₂, PMA R Alcohol ester from Example 1 Part S namely, 1α,2β 5Z ,3β,4α 7 3 hydroxymethyl 7 thiabicyclo 2.2.1 hept 2 yl 5 heptenoic acid, methyl ester 250.7 mg, 0.883 mmol was dissolved in distilled pyridine 2.3 ml and distilled CH₂Cl₂ 2.3 ml in an argon atmosphere. After cooling in an ice bath, tosyl chloride 336 mg, 1.76 mmol was added. The mixture was stirred cold for 30 minutes and overnight at room temperature. The reaction mixture was poured into ice water and stirred for 30 minutes. The product was extracted into ether 3 x 10 ml . The combined ether extracts were washed with 1 Potassium tert. butoxide 61.0 mg, 0.54 mmol was dissolved in distilled THF 4 ml in an argon atmosphere. 1 Hexanethiol 0.23 ml, 1.55 mmol was added and a white precipitate formed immediately. A solution of Part A tosylate 187 mg, 0.426 mmol in THF 5 ml was added and the mixture was heated under reflux for 5 hours. After cooling, the mixture was partitioned between saturated NaHCO₃ solution 15 ml and ether 15 ml . The aqueous layer was reextracted with ether 15 ml . The combined organic layers were washed with 0.5 The reaction was run under argon. Solvents were purged with argon prior to use. The Example 4 methyl ester 136 mg, 0.354 mmol was dissolved in distilled THF 18 ml and treated with 1 Anal Calcd for C₂₀H₃₄O₂S₂ C, 64.81 H, 9.25 S, 17.30 Found C, 64.79 H, 9.21 S, 17.39 TLC silica gel, 4 MeOH in CH₂Cl₂, UV I₂ R 1β,2α 5Z ,3α,4β 7 3 Tosyloxy methyl 7 thiabicyclo 2.2.1 hept 2 yl 5 heptenoic acid, methyl ester prepared as described in Example 4, Part A 176 mg, 0.40 mmol was dissolved in methanol 15 ml and the solution was cooled in an ice bath. A solution of NaIO₄ 109 mg, 0.51 mmol in H₂O 6 ml was added and the mixture was left stirring overnight at room temperature. A 10 solution of Na₂S₂O₃ 4 ml was added and the methanol was removed Potassium t butoxide 57.3 mg, 0.5 mmol was dissolved in distilled THF 4 ml in an argon atmosphere. 1 Hexanethiol 0.21 mg 1.45 mmol was added and a white precipitate formed immediately. A solution of Part A oxide 0.40 mmol in THF 6 ml was added and the mixture was heated under reflux 4 hours. The cooled mixture was partitioned between EtOAc 15 ml and saturated NaHCO₃ solution 15 ml . The aqueous layer was reextracted with EtOAc 15 ml . The combined organic layers were washed with 0.5N NaOH 10 ml and saturated NaCl solution 10 ml , dried MgSO₄ and freed of solvent TLC silica gel, EtOAc, PMA R Note The reaction was run under argon solvents were purged with argon prior to use . Example 6 methyl ester 31.7 mg, 0.079 mmol was dissolved in distilled THF 4.5 ml and treated with 1 TLC Silica gel, 4 MeOH in Et₂O, PMA R Anal Calcd for C₂₀H₃₄O₃S₂ C, 62.13 H, 8.86 S, 16.59 Found C, 61.99 H, 8.81 S, 16.41 Example 2 compound 183 mg, 0.54 mmol dissolved in ethyl acetate 5 ml is hydrogenated in the presence of 5 Pd C 18 mg under atmospheric pressure of hydrogen at room temperature. The reaction is filtered through a celite pad, which is washed with EtOAc 10 ml . The wash and the filtrate are combined, and concentrated Following the procedure of Examples 1 and 2 except substituting methyl methanesulfonate for n hexyl methanesulfonate, the title compound is obtained. Following the procedure of Examples 1, 2 and 8 except substituting n butyl methanesulfonate for n hexyl methanesulfonate, the title compound is obtained. Following the procedure of Examples 1 and 2 except substituting n octyl methanesulfonate for n hexyl methanesulfonate, the title compound is obtained. Following the procedure of Examples 1 and 2 except substituting ethyl methanesulfonate for n hexylmethane sulfonate, the title compound is obtained. Following the procedure of Examples 12 and 8 except substituting the Example 12 compound for the Example 2 compound in Example 8, the title compound is obtained. Following the procedure of Examples 1 and 2 except substituting benzyl methane sulfonate for n hexylmethane sulfonate, the title compound is obtained. Following the procedure of Example 8 except substituting the Example 15 acid for the Example 2 acid, the title compound is obtained. Following the procedure of Examples 1 and 2 except substituting cyclohexyl methanesulfonate for n hexyl methanesulfonate, the title compound is obtained. Following the procedure of Examples 1 and 2 except substituting cyclopentyl methanesulfonate for n hexyl methanesulfonate, the title compound is obtained. Following the procedure of Example 8 except substituting the Examples 17 acid for the Example 2 acid, the title compound is obtained. Into a dry 100 ml round bottom 3 necked flask containing a stir bar is added dried 12.9 g 37.7 mmoles methoxymethyltriphenylphosphonium chloride C₆H₅ ₃P CH₂OCH₃Cl and 235 ml distilled toluene stored over molecular sieves . The resulting suspension is stirred in an ice bath, under argon, until cold and then a 1.55 M solution of 18.3 ml 28.3 mmol of potassium t amylate in toluene was added dropwise. A bright red solution formed which is stirred at 0 C for an additional 35 minutes. Thereafter, a solution of 5.26 g 18.8 mmol 1β,2α 5Z ,3α,4β 7 3 formyl 7 thiabicyclo 2.2.1 hept 2 yl 5 heptenoic acid, methyl ester in 60 ml toluene is added by means of a dropping funnel over a 35 minute period with the ice bath still in place. The reaction is then quenched by addition of 2.3 g 39 mmol acetic acid in 5 ml ether. The reaction mixture is immediately poured into 200 ml saturated NH₄Cl, and extracted with ether 4 x 200 ml . The com bined ether phases are washed with NaCl saturated solution, and dried MgSO₄ and concentrated to yield a yellow oil in a white crystalline solid phosphine oxide . The white solid is triturated with EtOAc and the mother liquor is purified by chromatography on an LPS 1 silica column. The fractions obtained are A 1β,2α 5Z ,3α,4β 7 3 2 oxo ethyl bicyclo 2.2.1 hept 2 yl 5 heptenoic acid, methyl ester, B 1β,2α 5Z ,3α,4β 7 3 2 methoxy ethenyl bicyclo 2.2.1 hept 2 yl 5 heptenoic acid, methyl ester, and C 1β,2α Z ,3α,4β 7 3 2,2 dimethoxy ethyl bicyclo 2.2.1 hept 2 yl 5 heptenoic acid, methyl ester. Compounds B and C are each treated with trifluoroacetic acid to convert each to compound A . The aldehyde 1.4 g, 5 mmol from part A in methanol 50 ml is treated with NaBH₄ 0.19 g, 5 mmol in an argon atmosphere at 0 C. After stirring at 0 for 1 hour, the reaction is quenched by addition of 2N HCl to pH 2 . The methanol is removed Following the procedure of Examples 1 and 2 except substituting the above part B alcohol for the alcohol used in Example 1, Part S, the title compound is obtained. Following the procedure of Examples 20 and 8 except substituting 1β,2α,3α,4β 7 3 formyl 7 thiabicyclo 2.2.1 hept 2 yl 5 heptanoic acid, methyl ester for 1β,2α 5Z ,3α,4β 7 3 formyl 7 thiabicyclo 2.2.1 hept 2 yl 5 heptenoic acid, methyl ester, the title compound is obtained. Following the procedure of Examples 12, 21 and 8 except substituting 1β,2α,3α,4β 7 3 2 hydroxyethyl 7 thiabicyclo 2.2.1 hept 2 yl heptanoic acid, methyl ester for 1β,2α 5Z ,3α,4β 7 3 hydroxymethyl 7 thiabicyclo 2.2.1 hept 2 yl 5 heptenoic acid, methyl ester, the title compound is obtained. Following the procedure of Example 20 except substituting benzyl methanesulfonate for n hexyl methanesulfonate, the title compound is obtained. Following the procedure of Example 20 except substituting cyclopentyl methanesulfonate for n hexyl methanesulfonate, the title compound is obtained. Following the procedure of Example 20 except substituting cyclohexyl methanesulfonate for n hexyl methanesulfonate, the title compound is obtained. Following the procedure of Example 20, part A except substituting 1β,2α 5Z ,3α,4β 7 3 2 oxo ethyl 7 thiabicyclo 2.2.1 hept 2 yl 5 heptenoic acid, methyl ester for 1β,2α 5Z ,3α,4β 7 3 formyl 7 thiabicyclo 2.2.1 hept 2 yl 5 heptenoic acid, methyl ester, the title A compound is obtained. Following the procedure of Example 20, part A, except substituting the aldehyde from part A above for 1β,2α 5Z ,3α,4β 7 3 formyl 7 thiabi cyclo 2.2.1 hept 2 yl 5 heptenoic acid, methyl ester, the title B compound is obtained. Following the procedure of Example 20, part B, except substituting the title B aldehyde for 1β,2α 5Z ,3α,4β 7 3 2 oxo ethyl 7 thiabicyclo 2.2.1 hept 2 yl 5 heptenoic acid, methyl ester, the title C alcohol is obtained. Following the procedure of Examples 1 and 2, except substituting the above part C alcohol for the alcohol used in Example 1, Part S, the title compound is obtained. Following the procedure of Example 26 except substituting cyclohexyl methanesulfonate for n hexyl methanesulfonate, the title compound is obtained. Following the procedure of Examples 12 and 26 except substituting 1β,2α 5Z ,3α,4β 7 3 4 hydroxybutyl 7 thiabicyclo 2.2.1 hept 2 yl 5 heptenoic acid, methyl ester for 1β,2α 5Z ,3α,4β 7 3 hydroxymethyl 7 thiabicyclo 2.2.1 hept 2 yl 5 heptenoic acid, methyl ester, the title compound is obtained. Following the procedure of Example 26 except substituting benzyl methanesulfonate for n hexyl methanesulfonate, the title compound is obtained. A solution of the compound formed in Example 2 in methanol is treated with an equivalent amount of tri hydroxymethyl aminomethane. The solvent is removed by evaporation to yield the title compound. Following the procedure of Examples 4 and 5 except substituting methanethiol for 1 hexanethiol, the title compound is obtained. Following the procedure of Examples 4 and 5 except substituting 1 propanethiol for 1 hexane thiol, the title compound is obtained. Following the procedure of Examples 4, 5 and 8 except substituting 1 butanethiol for 1 hexane thiol, the title compound is obtained. Following the procedure of Examples 4 and 5 except substituting 1 octanethiol for 1 hexane thiol, the title compound is obtained. Following the procedure of Examples 4 and 5 except substituting thiophenol for 1 hexane thiol, the title compound is obtained. Following the procedure of Examples 4, 5 and 8 except substituting thiophenol for 1 hexanethiol, the title compound is obtained. Following the procedure of Examples 4 and 5 except substituting ethanethiol for 1 hexane thiol, the title compound is obtained. Following the procedure of Examples 4 and 5 except substituting benzylthiol for 1 hexane thiol, the title product is obtained. Following the procedure of Examples 4 and 5 except substituting cyclohexanethiol for 1 hexanethiol, the title compound is obtained. Following the procedure of Examples 4, 5 and 8 except substituting cyclohexanethiol for 1 hexanethiol, the title product is obtained. Following the procedure of Examples 20, 4 and 5 except substituting the Example 20 part B alcohol for the alcohol used in Example 3, the title compound is obtained. Following the procedure of Examples 20, 21 and 4 and 5 except substituting the Example 20 Part B alcohol for the alcohol used in Example 4 Part A, the title compound is obtained. Following the procedure of Examples 20 and 21 except substituting the Example 20 Part B alcohol for the alcohol used in Example 4, Part A and substituting thiophenol for 1 hexanethiol of Example 4 , the title compound is obtained. Following the procedure of Examples 20, 21 and 4 and 5 except substituting the Example 20 Part B alcohol for the alcohol used in Example 4, Part A and substituting thiophenol for 1 hexanethiol of Example 4 , the title compound is obtained. Following the procedure of Examples 20, 4 and 5 except substituting the Example 20 Part B alcohol for the alcohol used in Example 4, Part A and substituting benzylthiol for 1 hexanethiol of Example 4 , the title compound is obtained. Following the procedure of Examples 20, 4 and 5 except substituting the Example 20B alcohol for the alcohol used in Example 4, Part A and substituting cyclopentanethiol for 1 hexanethiol of Example 4 , the title compound is obtained. Following the procedure of Example 21 except substituting the Example 20B alcohol for the alcohol used in Example 4, Part A and substi tuting cyclohexanethiol for 1 hexanethiol of Example 4 , the title product is obtained. Following the procedure of Examples 26, 4 and 5 except substituting the Example 26 part C alcohol for the alcohol used in Example 4, the title compound is obtained. Following the procedure of Example 48 except substituting cyclohexanethiol for 1 hexanethiol, the title compound is obtained. Following the procedure of Example 48 except substituting thiophenol for 1 hexanethiol, the title compound is obtained. Following the procedure of Example 48 except substituting benzylthiol for 1 hexanethiol, the title compound is obtained. NaIO₄ 194.7 mg, 0.91 mmol dissolved in H₂O 10 ml is added to 1β,2α 5Z ,3α,4β 7 3 hexylthio methyl 7 thiabicyclo 2.2.1 hept 2 yl 5 heptenoic acid prepared as described in Example 5 135.1 mg, 0.364 mmol dissolved in MeOH 20 ml . The reaction is stirred overnight at room temperature. A 10 Na₂S₂O₃ solution 3 ml is added and MeOH is removed 90 H₂O₂ 76 mg, 2 mmol is added to a magnetically stirred solution of 1β,2α 5Z ,3α,4β 7 3 hexylthio methyl 7 thiabicyclo 2.2.1 hept 2 yl 5 heptenoic acid prepared as described in Example 5 135.0 mg, 0.364 mmol dissolved in MeOH 20 ml . The reaction is stirred overnight at room temperature. A 10 Na₂S₂O₃ solution 5 ml is added and MeOH is removed Following the procedure of Examples 4, 5, and 52 except substituting ethylmercaptan for 1 hexanethiol, the title compound is obtained. Following the procedure of Examples 4, 5, 8 and 52 except substituting 1 heptanethiol for 1 hexanethiol, the title compound is obtained. Following the procedure of Examples 4, 5 and 52 except substituting benzylmercaptan for 1 hexanethiol, the title compound is obtained. Following the procedure of Examples 4, 5 and 52 except substituting cyclohexylmethyl mercaptan for 1 hexanethiol, the title compound is obtained. Following the procedure of Examples 4, 5 and 52 except substituting cyclopentylethyl mercaptan for 1 hexanethiol, the title compound is obtained. Following the procedure of Examples 4, 5, 6, and 7 except substituting octylmercaptan for 1 hexanethiol, the title compound is obtained. Following the procedure of Examples 4, 5, 6, 7 and 53 except substituting propylmercaptan for 1 hexanethiol, the title compound is obtained. Following the procedure of Examples 4, 5, 6, and 7 except substituting phenylmercaptan for 1 hexanethiol, the title compound is obtained. Following the procedure of Examples 4, 5, 6 and 7 except substituting benzylmercaptan for 1 hexanethiol, the title compound is obtained. Following the procedure of Examples 4, 5, 6 and 7 except substituting cyclohexylmercaptan for 1 hexanethiol, the title compound is obtained. Following the procedure of Examples 4, 5, 8, and 53 except substituting cyclopropylmercaptan for 1 hexanethiol, the title compound is obtained. Following the procedure of Examples 41, 4, 5, and 52 except substituting 1 pentanethiol for 1 hexanethiol, the title compound is obtained. Following the procedure of Examples 41, 4, 5, 6 and 7 except substituting phenylmercaptan for 1 hexanethiol, the title compound is obtained. Following the procedure of Examples 41, 4, 5 and 55 except substituting cyclohexyl mercaptan for 1 hexanethiol, the title compound is obtained. Following the procedure of Examples 41, 4, 5, 6 and 7 except substituting benzylmercaptan for 1 hexanethiol, the title compound is obtained. NaIO₄ 29 mg, 0.135 mmole in H₂O 2.9 ml is added to a magnetically stirred solution of 1α,2β 5Z ,3β,4α 7 3 methyloxy methyl 7 thiabicyclo 2.2.1 hept 2 yl 5 heptenoic acid prepared as described in Example 9, 370 mg, 0.123 mmole in MeOH 6 ml at 0 C. Stirring is continued at 0 C for 8 hours and at room temperature overnight. 10 NA₂S₂O₃ 1 ml is added and the reaction is concentrated to remove MeOH Following the procedure of Examples 1, 2, 8 and 69 except substituting n butyl methanesulfonate for n hexyl methanesulfonate, the title compound is obtained. Following the procedure of Examples 1, 2 and 69 except substituting n octyl methanesulfonate for n hexyl methanesulfonate, the title compound is obtained. Following the procedure of Examples 1, 2 and 69 except substituting ethyl methanesulfonate for n hexyl methanesulfonate, the title compound is obtained. Following the procedure of Examples 12, 8 and 69 except substituting the Example 12 compound for the Example 2 compound in Example 8, the title compound is obtained. Following the procedure of Examples 1, 2 and 69 except substituting benzyl methanesulfonate for n hexyl methanesulfonate, the title compound is obtained. Following the procedure of Examples 4 and 5 except substituting 2E 4 phenylbut 2 ene 1 thiol for 1 hexanethiol, the title compound is obtained. Following the procedure of Example 1 except substituting 2E 3 cyclohexyl prop 2 enyl mesylate for n hexyl methanesulfonate, the title compound is obtained. Following the procedure of Examples 4, 5 and 8 except substituting 4 cyclohexyl but 2 ene 1 thiol for 1 hexanethiol, the title compound is obtained. Following the procedure of Example 32 except substituting 2,3 dimethyl hept 2 enyl methane sulfonate for n hexyl methanesulfonate, the title compound is obtained. Following the procedure of Examples 4 and 5 except substituting 3 ethyl oct 3 ene 1 thiol for 1 hexanethiol, the title compound is obtained. Following the procedure of Examples 1, 2 and 8 except substituting 5 phenyl pent 4 enyl mesylate for n hexyl methanesulfonate, the title compound is obtained. Following the procedure of Examples 4 and 5 except substituting 8 phenyl oct 5 yne 1 thiol for 1 hexanethiol, the title compound is obtained. Following the procedure of Example 1 except substituting 9 cyclohexyl non 3 ynyl methanesulfonate for n hexyl methanesulfonate, the title compound is obtained. Following the procedure of Examples 4, 5 and 8 except substituting hept 6 yne 1 thiol for 1 hexanethiol, the title compound is obtained. Following the procedure of Examples 20, 4 and 5 except substituting the Example 20 part B alcohol for the alcohol used in Example 4 Part B and substituting 3 phenyl prop 2 ene 1 thiol for 1 hexanethiol, the title compound is obtained. Following the procedure of Example 8 except substituting the Example 84 compound for the Example 1 compound, the title compound is obtained. Following the procedure of Examples 20, 1 and 2 except substituting 6 phenyl hex 3 ynyl methanesulfonate for n hexyl methanesulfonate, the title compound is obtained. Following the procedure of Examples 4, 5, 8 and 20 except substituting 2 ethyl 3 methyl hept 2 ene 1 thiol for 1 hexanethiol, the title compound is obtained. Following the procedure of Examples 4, 5, 8 and 20 except substituting 3 cycloheptyl prop 2 ene 1 thiol for 1 hexanethiol, the title compound is obtained. Following the procedure of Examples 48, 4 and 5 except substituting the Example 26 Part C alcohol for the alcohol used in Example 4 and substituting 3 phenyl prop 2 ene 1 thiol for 1 hexanethiol, the title compound is obtained Following the procedure of Examples 26, 1 and 2 except substituting 6 phenyl hex 3 ynyl methanesulfonate for n hexyl methanesulfonate, the title compound is obtained. Following the procedure of Examples 89, 4 and 5 except substituting 7 phenyl hept 3 ene 1 thiol for 3 phenyl prop 2 ene 1 thiol, the title compound is obtained. Following the procedure of Examples 4, 5, 8 and 89 except substituting hex 5 ene 1 thiol for 3 phenyl prop 2 ene 1 thiol, the title compound is obtained. Following the procedure of Examples 4, 5 and 89 except substituting hept 6 yne 1 thiol for 3 phenyl prop 2 ene 1 thiol, the title compound is obtained. Following the procedure as set out in the preceding Examples wherein compounds wherein A is CH₂ ₂ or CH CH and X is O or S O It will be appreciated that following the procedure of Examples 6, 7, 52 and 53, the thiabicyclo compounds described in the above Examples may be converted into the corresponding S oxides.