# Improvements in machine tools.

## Abstract
A machine tool which has a work table set comprising a main work table 1 1 and a smaller work table 1 2 movable within the main work table. The work tables may be linear or concentric, and may be driven by separate motors.

## Claims
1. A machine tool having a bed 1 3 with a guideway and a work table set comprising a main work table 1 1 movable along the guideway and at least one smaller work table 1 2 independently movable within or partially within the main work table.

## Description
The present invention relates to machine tools. The application is devided out of European Patent Application No. EP83305856.3, Publication No. 0106 595. The invention provides an improved arrangement of work table for a machine tool, and is defined in the claims appended hereto. It will now be described with reference to the drawings, in which In the work table set shown in Figure 1, one or more small work tables 1 2 are provided underneath a main work table 1 1 , being driven parallel to the direction of the main work table 2 1 . The small work table 1 2 may have the same length as the main work table 1 1 , but need not. The small work table may be able to pass completely through the main work table. As shown in Figure 2, a tool post 2 8 may be attached to one work table and a work piece be mounted on the other, enabling, for example, an operation to be performed on one side of the work piece while the top is free for processing by the machine tool. Besides the linear work table set of Figures 1 and 2, co axial rotary types may be employed, as shown in Figures 3 to 6. These may comprise one or more layers of co axial ring shaped structures as shown in Figure 3, and driving motors may be provided for synchronous or independent rotation in either direction, as shown in Figure 4. Processing may be carried out on a work piece on an adjacent table, as shown in Figure 5 and Figure 6. A multiple arrangement, as shown in Figure 7 and 8 may be suitable for use on an assembly line.