# CO VULCANIZABLE COMPOSITIONS OF FLUOROELASTOMERS

## Claims
Covulkanisierbare Zusammensetzungen von Fluorelastomeren, umfassend

## Description
The present invention relates to co vulcanizable compositions of fluoroelastomers. More particularly, the present invention relates to co vulcanizable compositions of fluoroelastomers, having improved chemical stability. The fluoroelastomers on the basis of vinylidene fluoride, vulcanized according to the bisphenolic or dihydroxy systems Kirk Othmer, Encyclopaedia of Chemical Technology, vol. 8, page 506, 1979 , are very valuable products which are used in the industrial world, in particular in the fields of car and oil industry, and in general in the energy industrial field. In the automobile field, fluoroelastomers are used mainly in the fuel circulation system, or as components of engine parts and of parts of gearbox differential transmission unit. In the first case, as application examples, membranes for fuel pumps, valve seats, non return valves, flexible hoses and, in general, seal gaskets for fuel can be mentioned. In the second case, analogous examples are gaskets for gear wheels, seal liners for cylinders in diesel engines, gaskets for the crankshaft, non return valves for the exhaust gases, gaskets of the type of shaft seals, and still others. In the oil and energy industrial field, fluoroelastomers are used for applications wherein they come into direct contact with the crude oil, above all at high temperatures and pressures , such as, for example, for gaskets, valves and pumps, or parts thereof. In this field, an important application for fluoroelastomers is represented by the expansion joints used in the exhaust ducts for the flue gases in thermoelectric power plants, wherein resistance to high temperatures associated with resistance to the corrosive action of acidic flue gases is required. Fluoroelastomers are used in these , and in other fields, such as in the electric and electronic field, thanks to their properties of high thermal stability and chemical resistance, even at high temperatures. But during the last years, and in some application types, precise technological requirements have arisen, which the manufactures of the prior art, vulcanized by the bisphenolic or dihydroxy systems, are not able to fulfil. The problematic parameter is in particular the chemical stability under severe operating temperature conditions in the presence of steam, of mineral acids, of highly aggressive lubricating fluids, such as, e.g., the oils of SF series, containing as additives compounds having a high swelling capacity for fluoroelastomers based on vinylidene fluoride. Furthermore, a general improvement is required as regards the processability characteristics of the mixes, for the moulding of such articles as the shaft seals, as well as the possibility to easily extrude the mixes to produce suitable semifinished articles having even complex profiles. The problem of the chemical stability has been solved thanks to the use of the vulcanization process by peroxides. This vulcanization type does not however allow the above mentioned requirements as for processability, in particular by moulding and extrusion, to be fulfilled moreover, the same processability results less reliable Rubber Chemistry and Technology, vol. 55, page 906, 1982 , and on compression set test much poorer results are obtained Kirk Othmer, ibid., page 510 . EP 0,136,596 discloses a composition comprising a copolymer based on vinylidene fluoride and a copolymer of tetrafluoroethylene and propylene. Unlike the present invention, the vulcanization is obtained by using a curing system comprising a ionic agent for the vinylidene fluoride copolymer and a peroxidic agent for the tetrafluoroethylene propylene copolymer. It is well known in the art that,in order to vulcanizate vinylidene fluoride copolymers with peroxides,it is necessary the presence of cure sites i.e.bromine atoms, double bonds, etc. , which are introduced into the polymeric chain by adding small amounts of another comonomer. In EP 0,136,596, where a vinylidene fluoride copolymer devoid of cure sites is used, the presence of the ionic agent is essential to obtain a vulcanization of the whole composition. Moreover, no indication is given that this particular kind of peroxides does not require the presence of a vulcanizing co agent, which is usually used in the art when fluoroelastomers are vulcanized with peroxides. The purpose of the present invention is to provide a co vulcanizable composition of fluoroelastomers, which allows the above described drawbacks to be overcome. More particularly, purpose of the present invention is to provide a co vulcanizable composition of fluoroelastomers containing vinylidene fluoride units, which allows an improved processing reliability and a better chemical and thermal stability to be achieved. It has been now surprisingly found by the Applicant, and is the object of the present invention, that these and further purposes are achieved by means of a covulcanizable elastomeric composition comprising Co vulcanizable elastomeric compositions containing from 5 to 10 parts by weight, as referred to 100 parts of A B blend, of bisperoxydicarbamate are preferred in the practical embodiment of the present invention. Elastomeric compositions comprising from 30 to 70 by weight of a fluoroelastomer A constituted by 50 65 mol of vinylidene fluoride, 15 20 mol of perfluoropropene and 0 25 mol of tetrafluoroethylene and of from 70 to 30 by weight of a copolymer B constituted by 55 45 mol of tetrafluoroethylene and 45 55 mol of propylene are particularly preferred in the practical embodiment of the present invention. The elastomers as of item A are known from technical literature and can be prepared as described in Kirk Othmer, ibid., pages 500 foll., or they can be obtained from the market under the tradenames VITON, TECNOFLON, FLUOREL, DAIEL. The copolymers as of item B are known from technical literature and can be prepared as described in Rubber Chemistry and Technology, vol. 50, pages 403, 1977, or they can be obtained from the market under the tradename AFLAS. The bisperoxydicarbamates as of item C can be prepared as described in Rubber World, May 1984, pages 49 foll. According to a preferred embodiment of the present invention, bisperoxydicarbamates which can be used in the composition of the present invention can be Their preparation is described in detail in the bibliografic reference quoted above. The elastomeric vulcanizable composition according to the present invention contains furthermore the conventional additives for such a type of elastomers, in particular such basic substances as MgO, PbO, CaO, calcium hydroxide and carbon black. The operating conditions for the mix preparation and vulcanization belong to those normally used for fluoroelastomers, and described in Kirk Othmer, ibidem, pages 500 foll. The co vulcanizable compositions of the present invention have optimum characteristics of extrusion, optimum stability to SF oils, and optimum strength to steam at high temperature. To the purpose of better understanding the present invention, and of describing practical embodiments thereof, some illustrative, but not limitative Examples are reported hereunder. By blending in cylinder mixer, elastomeric compositions have been prepared, by starting from the following products In Table 1 the data relating to three compositions according to the present invention Tests 2, 3 and 4 and, to comparative purposes, the data relating to a vulcanizable composition of the prior art Test 1 are reported. Two compositions of fluoroelastomers have been prepared with the same modalities as of the foregoing Examples Test 6 is a comparative test after vulcanization in press at 170 C for 8 minutes and in oven at 200 C for 24 hrs, two samples have been treated with steam at 160 C for 7 days. The physical properties of the two products are reported in Table 2.