# Ferroelectric chiral smetic liquid crystal composition and light switching element

## Claims
Ferroelektrische, chirale, smektischeFlüssigkristallzusammensetzung, umfassendmindestens eine achirale, smektische C Verbindungund mindestens eine chirale, smektische CVerbindung, dadurch

## Description
This invention relates to a chiral smectic liquid crystal composition. More particularly it relates to aferroelectric liquid crystal composition having a long helical pitch and superior response properties,obtained by adding a ferroelectric chiral smectic liquid crystal to at least one kind of liquid crystalcompounds of a directly linked ring type structure having a smectic C phase hereinafter abbreviated to S Liquid crystal compounds have been widely used as a material for display elements, but most of suchliquid crystal display elements are of TN type display mode and as the liquid crystal materials, thosebelonging to a nematic phase have been used. Since the TN type display mode is of non emissive type, it has specific features that eyes are not tiredand the electric power consumption is very small, whereas it has drawbacks that response is slow and thedisplay is not seen in certain angles of view. Recently, the display mode has come to be turned toward adirection of making use of the specific feature in the form of a flat display. In particular, high speedresponse properties and a broad angle of view have been required. Thus, in order to satisfy such arequirement, improvement in liquid crystal materials has been attempted. However, as compared with otheremissive type displays such as electroluminescence display, plasma display, etc., the TN display mode hasbeen confirmed to be considerably inferior in the responce time and the broadness of the angle of view tothe above emissive type displays. Making use of the specific features of the non emissive type and the lowpower consumption of the liquid crystal display elements, and yet in order to ensure the responseproperties corresponding to those of the emissive type display elements, it has been indispensable todevelop a new liquid crystal display mode. As one of such attempts, a display mode utilizing the lightswitching phenomenon of ferroelectric liquid crystals has been proposed by N.A. Clark and S.T. Lagerwall see Applied Physics Letters, Vol. 36,page 899 1980 . Ferroelectric liquid crystals have been announcedby R.B. Mayer for the first time see Journal de Physique Vol. 36, page 69 1975 , and in the aspect ofcrystal structure, the crystals belong to chiral smectic C phase, chiral smectic I phase, chiral smectic Fphase, chiral smectic G phase and chiral smectic H phase hereinafter abbreviated to S When the light switching effect of S As the display mode, two modes are considered. One mode is of a birefringence type using twopolarizers and the other is of guest host type using a dichroic dyestuff. S Since liquid crystal molecules are rotated around the helical axis by the polarity reversal throughimpressed voltage, it is preferred in the case of the birefringence type display mode that the angle of themajor axis of liquid crystal molecule made against the helical axis hereinafter referred to as tilt angle be22.5 . On the other hand, in the case of the guest host type, it is possible to obtain an uncolored view or acolored view, depending on the angle of the direction of the transition moment of a dichroic dyestuff dissolved in a liquid crystal compound or a liquid crystal composition, made against the polarization planeof the polarizer. When the direction of the transition moment of the dichroic dyestuff molecule and thedirection of the polarization plane are in parallel to each other in the case of one polarity, and the formerdirection is crossed with the latter direction in the case of the other polarity, then the best contrast isobtained. Namely, when the tilt angle of liquid crystal molecule is 45 , it is possible to obtain the bestcontrast. In order that the display element using a ferroelectric chiral smectic liquid crystal can have a memory itis regarded as necessary to be able to form two stable states bistable state on the surface of electrode bypolarity inversion of impressed voltage. In order to obtain a liquid crystal display element having the abovebistable state and high speed response properties, It Is necessary to make the cell gap d less than thehelical pitch P d P to untwist the helix, as proposed by N.A. Clark et al see N.A. Clark et al. AppliedPhysics Letters, vol. 36, page 899 1980 . Further, when the display element using a ferroelectric liquid crystal is brought into the above bistablestate, there is generally the following relationship 1 among the threshold voltage Ec required for invertingmolecule, the helical pitch P and the value of the spontaneous polarization Ps In the above formula 1 , K represents a torsional elastic constant at the time of deformation due toturning over of molecule. As apparent from the equation 1 , in order to reduce the threshold voltage, alonger helical pitch and a larger spontaneous polarization value are preferred. Further, there is the following relationship among the response time τ , the spontaneous polarizationvalue Ps and the viscosity η In the above equation 2 , E represents an impressed voltage. Thus, in order to raise the responsespeed, there are the following methods Liquid crystal cells are driven by means of LSI Large Scale Integrated Circuit which is generallyoperated under a considerably low voltage. Thus the impressed voltage of liquid crystal cells is preferred tobe as low as possible. Accordingly, it is actually necessary to lower the viscosity η or raise the spontaneouspolarization value Ps. In general, ferroelectric chiral smectic liquid crystal compounds having a large spontaneous polarizationvalue, have a tendency that their viscosity increases. Thus, even if the spontaneous polarization value isincreased uselessly, the viscosity increases accordingly, and as a result, it is considered that the responsespeed is not raised so much. As described above, in order to obtain an element having a high response speed by applying the light switchingeffect of S EP A 0178647 discloses ferroelectric smectic mixtures containing a smectic chrial compound and apyrimidinyl or biphenyl type compound. WO A 8606401 discloses ferroelectric smectic compounds with pyridinyl or pyrimidinyl type compoundsfor a LC display. Mol. Cryst. Liq. Cryst 1985 , pages 61 and ff. discloses various chiral liquid crystal molecules which aremiscible with none chiral molecules exhibiting a smectic C phase and which allow the preparation of longpitch chiral smectic C mixtures. WO A 8602937 discloses a ferroelectric smectic liquid crystal mixture which contains cyclohexylcompounds and which includes a first chiral constituent and a second constituent which exhibits a tiltedsmectic phase. WO A 8607085 discloses the use of pyridinyl or pyrimidinyl and phenylene type compounds as achiralcomponent in mixtures exhibiting a Sc phase at low temperature as well as a transition Smc Sa. As seen from the foregoing, a first object of the present invention is to provide a ferroelectric chiralsmectic liquid crystal composition affording a high response speed and being cheap so that a high speedswitching can be effected. The present inventors have already disclosed an invention of a ferroelectric chiral smectic liquid crystalcomposition consisting of a compound having a smectic C phase and having no helical structure and aferroelectric chiral smectic liquid crystal compound having a helical structure Japanese patent applicationNo. Sho 60 36003 1985 or EP A 178647 . The specification of the above application discloses that when aferroelectric compound having a small helical pitch but having a large spontaneous polarization value isblended with a liquid crystal compound having a smectic C phase and having no helical structure, it ispossible to obtain a liquid crystal composition having a large spontaneous polarization value and a longhelical pitch and being cheap. In order to further improve the above invention, the present inventors have made strenuous research,and as a result have found that there is, as a component, an achiral compound capable of particularlyraising the response speed of display elements using a highly ferroelectric chiral smectic liquid crystalcomposition. The present Invention in a first aspect resides in Fig. 1 shows a chart illustrating the respective temperature dependencies of response properties of aferroelectric liquid crystal composition shown in Example 2 described later and that shown in Comparativeexample 2. The ordinate axis refers to the logarithmic scale of response time. The chiral smectic liquid crystal compound used in the present invention, having a helical structure andexpressed by the above formula IV will be exemplified below. As the group having an asymmetric carbonatom, expressed by R The symbol in the above structural formulas means that the carbon atom having the symbol attachedis an asymmetric carbon atom. The above liquid crystal compounds having a helical structure are naturallyoptically active. The achiral smectic C liquid crystal compound containing pyrimidin 2,5 diyl group, used in the presentinvention, includes, for example, compounds as listed below in Table 1. It has been found that liquid crystal compounds of directly linked rings type havingS In addition, by blending achiral smectic C liquid crystal compounds expressed by the formula I withferroelectric chiral smectic liquid crystal compounds or compositions, it is possible to obtain the followingadvantages In the case of such a composition, it is possible to relatively easily carry out the fine adjustment of thehelical pitch. Beside the effectiveness described in the above items i vi , the effectiveness of the presentinvention will be described below in Examples. The present invention will be described in more detail by way of Examples, but it should not beconstrued to be limited thereto. A chiral smectic liquid crystal composition shown in Table 2A was prepared using the following fourkinds of compounds having pyrimidin 2,5 diyl group as compounds having no helical Structure The S A chiral smectic liquid crystal composition shown in Table 2C was prepared using five kinds ofcompounds having an ester bond, described below, in place of four compounds having pyrimidin 2,5 diylgroup used in Example 1, as compounds having no helical structure. The characteristics of this compositionand those of the liquid crystal display element using the composition were measured in the same manneras in Example 1. The results are shown in Table 2B together with those of Example 1 In the case of Comparative example 1, transition from a smectic phase to S Next, as to comparison of Ps values, in spite of the fact that Ps value in Example 1 using compoundshaving pyrimidin 2,5 diyl group is about 1 3 of Ps value in Comparative example 1, the response times inboth the cases are the same. From this fact it can been seen that the viscosity in Example 1 is about 1 3 ofthe viscosity in Comparative example 1. As described above, it can be seen that the composition of Example 1 has better characteristics thanthose of Comparative example 1. A chiral smectic liquid crystal composition consisting four kinds of pyrimidine derivatives and having S The physical properties of these compositions and the characteristics of liquid crystal cells preparedusing these compositions in the same manner as in Example 1 were measured. The results are shown inTable 3B. In comparison of Example 2 with Comparative example 2, in spite of the fact that the spontaneouspolarization value of Comparative example 2 is 5 times or more that of Example 2, the response time ofExample 2 is shorter than that of Comparative example 2. This is because of the difference in viscositybetween the two. Further, in Fig. 1 wherein the temperature dependencies of the response time in Example2 and Comparative example 2 are shown, the temperature dependency in Example 2 is far less than that inComparative example 2, and in comparison at 0 C, the response time in Example 2 is 1 10 or less of that inComparative example 2. Namely, compositions using compounds having pyrimidine ring are notablyimproved also in the temperature characteristics. A composition shown in Table 4A comparative Example 3 and that shown in Table 4C Comparative example 4 were prepared, and their physical properties and the characteristics of liquid crystal cells using thecompositions were measured. The results are shown in Table 4B. As to the response time shown in Table 4B, an anthraquinone dichroic dyestuff D 16, tradename ofproduct manufactured by BDH Company was added in one part by weight to 100 parts by weight of therespective compositions shown in Tables 4A and 4C, and with the resulting compositions, the respectiveresponse times were measured. As a result, it can be seen that even in the case of guest host type havinga dichroic dyestuff added, the viscosity is also notably improved, resulting in a very high response speed.