# Luminescent screen and low pressure mercury vapour discharge lamp provided with such a screen.

## Abstract
A luminescent screen 1,4 provided with a terbium activated silicate 4 having a cuspidine crystal structure ac cording to the formula Y

## Claims
1. A luminescent screen provided with a luminescent layer which is applied to a carrier and which comprises a luminescent terbium activated silicate having a cuspidine crystal structure, characterized in that the silicate corresponds to the formula Y4 x z pCaxMzIITbpSi2 yAlyO7 x z yN2 x z y, where MII at least one of the elements Mg, Sr and Ba, where the yttrium can be replaced up to at most 50 mol. by at least one of the elements Gd and La and O x 1.9 O z 1.0 O y 1.9 x z y 1.9 0.05 p 1.5.

## Description
The invention relates to a luminescent screen provided with a luminescent layer which is applied to a carrier and com prises a luminescent terbium activated silicate having a cuspidine crystal structure. The invention further relates to a low pressure mercury vapour discharge lamp provided with such a luminescent screen. From the article in Philips Res. Repts. 1967, 22, 481 504, luminescent terbium activated silicates are known, whose fundamental lattice corresponds to the formula Y₂Ca₂Si₂O₉. This silicate and also the isomorphous compound Y₄Al₂O₉, of which the terbium activation is also described, have the monoclinic crystal structure of the mineral cuspidine Ca₄Si₂O₇F₂ . Terbium activated silicates having a fundamental lattice of the type Y₂SiO₅ and Y₂Si₂O₇ are further known, for example, from US Patent Specifications 3,523,091 and 3,758,413. The element terbium is a frequently used activator for luminescent materials because in many crystal lattices it gives rise to a very efficient luminescence, the characteristic green Tb The invention has for its object to provide luminescent screens comprising new luminescent materials which are activated by terbium and which in practical applications can be directly excited in the terbium. According to the invention, a luminescent screen of the kind mentioned in the opening paragraph is characterized in that the silicate corresponds to the formula Y It has been found that nitrogen containing silicates on the basis of the lattice Y₄Si₂O₇N₂ form very efficiently lumines cing materials upon activation by terbium. The Y₄Si₂O₇N₂ has the cuspidine crystal structure and is a material known It has been found that the corresponding compounds Gd₄Si₂O₇N₂ and La₄Si₂O₇N₂ having a cuspidine structure can also be obtained. However, upon activation by Tb, these compounds have too low a quantum efficiency for practical applications. There fore, in the luminescent silicates according to the invention, yttrium is used, which can be replaced for at most 50 mol. by Gd and or La. Such a replacement does not influence the crystal structure of the silicate and substantially does not influence the luminescent properties. In the Y₄Si₂O₇N₂ lattice, the yttrium can further be replaced in part by Ca and the elements, Mg, Sr and Ba represented by M It appears from the general formula and conditions stated above for the luminescent silicates of luminescent screens according to the invention that at most 1.9 mol of the Y is re placed by Ca x 1.9 and also at most 1.9 mol of the Si is replaced by Al y 1.9 . If at the same time substitutions take place of both Y by Ca and, as the case may be, M Use is preferably made of a luminescent screen according to the invention, which is characterized in that the silicate corresponds to the formula Y The luminescent silicates can be obtained by a solid state reaction at a high temperature of a mixture of starting materials formed from oxides of the constituent elements or from compounds producing these oxides upon an increase in temperature. The nitrogen is mostly added to the mixture as Si₃N₄, in general an excess of nitrogen, for example of 10 mol. , being used. A small excess of silicon, for example a few mol. , may also be used to favour the procedure of the solid state reaction. The mixture is heated once or several times at a temperature of 1200 1700 C in a weakly reducing atmosphere, the luminescent silicate then being formed. Examples of luminescent silicates suitable for a luminescent screen according to the invention will now be de scribed more fully with reference to a drawing, an example of preparation and a number of measurements. In the drawing Fig. 1 shows diagrammatically and in sectional view a low pressure mercury vapour discharge lamp provided with a tubular glass wall 1. At the ends of the lamp there are arranged electrodes 2 and 3, between which the discharge is maintained during operation. The lamp is provided with a small quantity of mercury and with a rare gas as a starting gas. The wall 1 con stitutes the carrier for a luminescent screen and is provided at the inner surface with a luminescent layer 4, which comprises a luminescent silicate according to the invention. The layer 4 can be applied to the wall 1 in a usual manner, for example by means of a suspension containing the luminescent silicate. A mixture was made of 7.598 g of Y₂O₃ 0.662 g of Tb₄O₇ 0.426 g of SiO₂ 1.368 g of Si₃N₄. This mixture was heated in a molybdenum crucible for 1 hour at 1350 C in a closed furnace, through which a flow 6 l min of nitrogen containing 5 by volume of hydrogen was passed. After cooling and pulverization, the produced obtained was heated once more for 2 hours at 1500 C in the same atmosphere. After cooling and homogenization, a terbium activated silicate was obtained according to the formula Y In the same manner as described in Example 1, a number of terbium activated silicates of different compositions were prepared. The formulae of these silicates and the results of the measurement of the quantum efficiency QE in upon excitation by 254 nm radiation and the absorption A in of the exciting radiation are indicated in the following table.