# Semiconductor device having a multi layered wiring.

## Abstract
A semiconductor device has sidewall parts 13 made of an insulating material on the sides of a lower metal wiring layer 12 . The surface slope shape of the sidewall parts 13 is utilized in order to smooth out the step at the sides of the lower metal wiring layer 12 . Thus it becomes possible to prevent breakages at the step in an upper metal wiring layer 15 , formed on an insulating layer 14 covering the lower wiring layer 12 and the sidewall parts 13 . It is also then possible to eliminate etching remainder and hillocks in the lower wiring layer 12 . Thus a multi layered wiring structure having high reliability can be obtained.

## Claims
Claims 1. A semiconductor device having a lower layer wiring film 12 , an upper layer wiring film 15 , and an insulating film 14 between the upper and lower layer wiring films 12,15 characterised in that sidewell parts 13 are provided on the sides of the lower layer wiring film 12,15 . 2. A semiconductor device according to claim 1 wherein the sidewall parts 13 are of an insuiat ing material. 3. A semiconductor device according to claim 1 or claim 2, wherein the sidewall parts 13 are of silicon nitride. 4. A semiconductor device according to any one of claims 1 to 3 wherein the lower layer wiring film 12 is of a wiring material having aluminum as its principal component. 5. A semiconductor device according to any one of the preceding claims, having a substrate 10 with a semiconductor element therein, the lower layer wiring film being connected electrically to the semiconductor element and being formed by etching a material different from the material of the substrate. 6. A semiconductor device according to claim 5, wherein the semiconductor element includes at least one MISFET. 7. A semiconductor device according to claim 5 or claim 6, wherein the semiconductor element includes at least a CMIS IC. 8. A semiconductor device according to any one of claims 5 to 7 wherein the semiconductor element includes at least one bipolar transistor. 9. A method of producing a semiconductor device, including forming a first wiring film 12 on a semiconductor substrate 10 forming an interlevel insulating film 14 covering the first wiring film 12 forming a contact hole in the insulating film 14 and forming a second wiring film 15 on the insulating film 14 characterised in that sidewall parts 13 are formed on the sides of the first wiring film 12 , and the insulating film 14 covers both the first wiring film 12 and the sidewall parts 13 . 10. A method according to claim 9, wherein the first wiring film 12 is of a material having aluminum as its principal component. 11. A method according to claim 9 or claim 10, wherein the sidewall parts 13 are of an insulating material. 12. A method according to any one of claims 9 to 11, wherein the sidewall parts 13 are formed by forming a further film of a material different from the material of the first wiring film 12 so as to cover the first wiring film 12 , and then etching the further film to define the sidewall parts 13 . 13. A method according to any one of claims 9 to 12, wherein the sidewall parts 13 are formed by forming a silicon nitride film by a chemical vapor deposition CVD method and selectively etching and removing the silicon nitride film by a reactive ion etching RIE method having high anisotropy. 14. A method according to any one of claims 9 to 13 wherein the interlevel insulating film is a phosphosilicate glass PSG film. 15. A method according to any one of claims 9 to 14, wherein a semiconductor element is formed in the substrate. 16. A method according to claim 15, wherein the step of forming the semiconductor element includes forming a MIS IC having a gate electrode on a silicon substrate. 17. A method according to claim 15 wherein the step of forming the semiconductor element includes forming a MIS IC having a gate electrode and an LDD structure on a silicon substrate. 18. A semiconductor device formed by a method according to any one of claims 9 to 17.

## Description
SEMICONDUCTOR DEVICE AND METHOD OF PRODUCING SUCH A DEVICE This ií ion relates generally to a silicon device and method of producing such a device litre particuiarly, the present invention re lales 1E a semiconductor device involving multilayered wiing. In order to obtain a semiconductor device with a high integration packing density and a high operation speed it is becoming increasingly com mon to use a multilayered wiring structure to connect seswionductr elements to one another. The width of te wiring layer has been miniaturized with the miniaturiation of the semiconductor elements. Therefore, the ratio of thickness to width of the wiring layer becomes significant and the steps at the sides of the wiring layer become more and more steep. In particular, the steps on both sides of a lower wiring layer become steep and coverage of an upper wiring layer to be formed thereon gets deteriorated and cut of the step is likely to occur or remainder of etching is left at the steps at the time of patterning of the upper wiring layer. Thus, the reliability of wiring drops. Attempts have herefore been made to make flat the wiring layer. For example, a structure shown in Fig. 5 of the accompanying drawings has been proposed. In this structure, after a thin silicon dioxide film 2 is formed on a lower aluminum At wiring layer 1 by plasma CVD Chemical VaporDeposition , an SOG Spin On Glass film 3 is coated on the silicon dioxide film 2 and a PSG Phospho Silicate Glass film 4 is further formed thereon as an interlevel insulating film. According to this structure, the SOG film 3 stays at the side portions of the AL wiring layer 1 due to its own viscosity when it is coated, and changes the skirts of the side portions of the AL wiring layer 1 into a gentle slope.Therefore, the steep steps on both sides of the lower AL wiring layer 1 can be eliminated and the cut of step of the upper AL wiring layer 5 and etching remainder at the time of pat terming can be prevented. According to this structure, however, the SOG film 3 is likely to peel and swell so that the break age and float of the upper AL wiring layer 5 are likely to occur and the reliability drops as much. In addition, since high tempefature treatment about 450 G is necessary for annealing the SOG film 3 and hence hillocks are likely to develop in the lower AL wiring layer 1. In connection with the method of making flat the multi layered wirings, various structures including the structure shown in Fig. 5 are described in the literature Semiconductor World October, 1984, p. 116 137, published by K.K Press Journal. It is therefore an object of the present invention provide a semiconductor device having high reliability. It is another object of the present invention to provide a method of producing a semiconductor device which is easy to produce and can provide a wiring structure having high reliability. It is still another object of the present invention to provide a semiconductor device and method of producing the same which can make flat a wiring layer without using an SOG film so that not only the cut of step in an upper wiring layer and etching remainder can be prevented, but also reliability can be improved and the occurrence of hillock in a lower wiring layer can be prevented. These and other objects and novel features of the present invention will become more apparent from the following detailed description when taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings. Among the inventions disclosed herein, the following is a typical example. Sidewalls made of an insulating material are formed on both sides of a lower metal wiring layer, and the steps of the lower metal wiring layer are mitigated by utilizing the surface slope shape of these sidewalls. In consequence, the cut of steps in an upper metal wiring layer and etching remainder can be prevented, hillock in the lower metal wiring layer can be prevented, too, and a highly reliable multi layered wiring structure can be obtained. In the drawings Fig. 1 is a sectional view of a semiconductor device in accordance with one embodiment of the present invention Figs. 2A and 2B are sectional views showing the semiconductor device shown in Fig. 1, particularly the formation process of its sidewalls Fig. 3 is 2 sectional view showing an applica tion example of the present invention to a CMOS Complementary Metal Oxide Semiconductor type semiconductor integrated circuit device IC Figs. 4A to 4K are sectional views showing the production steps of CMOS IC shown in Fig. 3 and Fig. 5 is a sectional view of a semiconductor device having a conventional structure.Embodiment I Fig. 1 illustrates a semiconductor device in accordance with one embodiment of the present invention. The drawing shows particularly an application example of the present invention to a multi layered wiring structure using aluminum Al multi layered wiring layers. In the drawing, reference numeral 11 denotes an insulating film which is formed on a semiconductor substrate 11 such as a silicon substrate and is made of PSG. A first At wiring layer 12 as a lower metal wiring layer is formed on the substrate in a predetermined pattern. Sidewalls 13, 13 made of silicon nitride are integrally formed on both sides of the first Al wiring layer 12 in such a manner as to define slopes on both sides of the first AL wiring layer 12. As will be described elsewhere, these sidewalls 13, 13 are formed by deposition by CVD Chemical Vapor Deposition and etching by high anisotropic etching.A PSG Phospho Silicate Glass film 14 is then formed on the first AL wiring layer 12, and a second Al wiring layer 15 as an upper metal wiring layer is pattern formed on thePSG film 14. Next, the method of producing the semiconductor device of this embodiment will be described with primary reference to be formation method of the sidewalls 13, 13. After the first AL wiring layer 12 is formed as depicted in Fig. 2A, silicon nitride is deposited on the entire surface by plasms CVD at normal or low temperature in order to forma silicon nitride film 13A which has substantially the same thickness as the first AL wiring layer 12. Next, the entire surface is etched by an etching method having high anisotropy such as RIE Reactive Ion Etching , whereby the silicon nitride film 13A is etched and removed from the portions of the first Al wiring layer other than both side portions of the first At wiring layer 12. In this manner, the silicon nitride film 13A remains only on both sides of the first Al wiring layer 12, thereby forming the sidewalls 13, 13.These sidewalls 13, 13 have a curved surface having a gentle slope and mitigate substantially the steps on both sides of the first AL wiring layer 12.At this time, the etching selection ratio of the PSG film as an insulating film to silicon nitride to be etched is great in this embodiment. In other words, the silicon nitride film is etched but the PSG film is hardly etched. Therefore, the silicon nitride film 13A can be etched effectively without drastically etching the insulating film 11. According to the multi layered wiring structure described above, therefore, the inclination on both sides of the first AL wiring layer 12 is mitigated by the sidewalls 13, 13 so that a steep step can be avoided, and the surface step of the PSG film 14 formed on the sidewalls can be made smooth and gentle. Therefore, when the second AL wiring layer 15 is formed, its coverage on both sides of the firstAL wiring layer 12 can be improved so that the cut of step does not occur and any remainder of etching is not left, either, at the time of patterning of the second AL wiring layer 15. Since this structure does not use the SOG film, high temperature heat treatment for annealing is not necessary in order to form the sidewalls 13, 13 and the PSG film 14, and the heat treating temperature at the time of CVD can be kept below about 2000 C. For these reasons, any hillocks do not develop on the surface of the first At wiring layer 12. Additionally, since the SOG film is not used, peel or expansion of the interlevel insulating film does not occur and float or breakage of the second AL wiring layer 15 can of course be prevented.Embodiment 2 Fig. 3 illustrates an application example of the present invention to CMOS IC. Particularly, in aCMOS IC consisting of an N channel MOSFET Metal Insulator Semiconductor Field Effect Transistor 101 and a P channel MOSFET 102, this embodiment illustrates an example in which anLDD Lightly Doped Drain structure is used for theN channel MOSFET 101 and a structure for reducing a short channel effect and improving the break down voltage of a drain junction is used for the Pchannel MOSFET 102. The N channel MOSFET 10t is formed in a P type well semiconductor region 104 in a semiconductor substrate 103 made of an N type single crystal silicon. The MOSFET 101 comprises a gate electrode 105 consisting of a plycrystalline silicon, a gate insulating film 118 consistinf of a silicon dioxide film and a source drain region 107 of an LDD structure formed by utilizing sidewall spaces 106, 106 formed on both sides of the gate electrode 105. The source drain region 107 of the LDD structure in turn comprises an N type semiconductor layer 108 having a high impurity concentration and formed in the spaced apart offset relation with the gate electrode 105 and an N type semiconductor layer log of a low impurity concentration that continues the N type semiconductor layer 108 and extends up to the portion below the gate electrode 105. In the case of this embodiment, the N type semiconductor layer 108 is formed by use of arsenic As while the N type semiconductor layer 109 is formed by use of phosphorus P . Boron B is introduced into the portion below the gate electrode 105, that is, into the surface of the channel 10, by ion implantation in order to adjust a threshold voltage. Boron is not shown in the drawing. On the other hand, the P channel MOSFET 102 is formed in an N type well semiconductor region 111 in the substrate 103. MOSFET 102 com prises a gate electrode 112 of polycrystaliine silicon into which an N type impurity is doped in a high concention, a gate insulating film 18 and a P type source drain region 113. The source drain region 113 is formed in the spaced apart offset relation with the gate electrode 112. Namely, the end portion of the region 113 does not exist below the gate eiectrode 112. The source drain region 113 is connected to a channel layer 115 which is formed below the gate electrode 112, that is, on the surface of the channel lit4, and is made of a P type semiconductor region. This channel layer 115 is formed by doping boron in a relatively low concentration simultaneously with the ion implanation for adjusting the threshold voltage of the N channel MOSFET de scribe above. The source drain region 113 is formed by doping the same impurity, that is, boron, in a high impurity concentration. The region 115 has a lower impurity concentration a smaller junction depth than the region 113. Reference numeral 116 denotes sidewall spacers that are formed on both sides of the gate electrode 112. In the drawing, reference numeral 117 denotes a field insulating film consisting of silicon dioxide SiO2 film, and reference numeral 119 denotes an interievel insulating film made of PSG PhosphoSilicate Glass film. Reference numeral 120 denotes an aluminum AL wiring. In the N channel MOSFET 101 in the CMOS device having the construction described above, mitigation of the electric field by the semiconductor layer of a low impurity concentration and low resistance by the semiconductor layer 108 of a high impurity concentration can be accomplished.Therefore, the breakdown voltage of the drain junction the P N junction between the drain region and the well can be improved and the short channel effect can be reduced. In the P channel MOSFET 102 of the CMOS device, on the other hand, the P type channel layer 115 and the P type source drain region 113 having the same conductivity type and the offset struc ture are formed continuously and integrally with each other. A part of the channel layer 115 exhibits the same operation as the region 109 in the N channelMOSFET and functions as a region that mitigates the electric field in the vicinity of the junction formed by the drain region 113. Namely, this structure can be regarded as a kind of LDD structures.For this reason, the breakdown voltage of the drain junction can be improved and the occurrence of hot carriers can be restricted. Since the channel layer 115 exists, it is not necessary to diffuse the high impurity source drain region 113 until its end reaches the portion below the gate electrode 112. Therefore, the short chan nel effect can be reduced and the miller capacity can be reduced, too. Since the source drain region 113 need not be formed in such a manner as to reach the portion below the gate electrode 112. it can have a high impurity concentration and its resistance can be reduced. The channel of the P channel MOSFET 102 is a so called buried channel which is primarily formed at the junction between the channel layer 115 and the well 111. In this case, the MOSFET 102 is of the enhancement type but not of the depletion type due to the difference fMS of the work functions between the gate electrode 112 and the channel 114. For this reason, an N type impurity such as P is introduced into the gate electrode 112 in a high concentration such as up to twentyodds ohms square, while the N type channel layer 115 is formed in an extremely limited depth. Since the channel is the buried channel, high mobility can be obtained for the hot carriers.Since the distance is great between the gate electrode 112 and the channel, the hot carriers are hardly affected by the electric field of the gate electrode t12, and are hence not injected into the gate insulating film 118.Furthermore, since the drain junction does not exist below the gate electrode 112, the electric field can be mitigated in this respect, too. MOSFET 102 is of the buried channel type and moreover, has the source drain region of the offset structure with respect to the gate electrode. There fore, the effects described above can be easily obtained. For the reasons described above, not only theN channel MOSFET 101 but also the P channelMOSFET 102 can be formed in the short channel structure, or in other words, scale down miniaturization of these transistors can be accomplished, and the integration packing density of theP channel MOSFET and CMOS containing the Pchannel MOSFETs can be improved. Incidentally, a material having the equal or approximate work function to that of the polycrystalline silicon into which an N type impurity is doped in a high concentration can be used as the material for the gate electrode 112. Next, an example of the production method ofCMOS device shown in Fig. 3 will be described with reference to Figs. 4A to 4K. First of all, a P type well 104 having a concentration of 1X10ls atoms.cm 3 and an N type well having a concentration of 2x10 atoms.cm 3 are formed in an N type silicon substrate 103 having an impurity concentration of 4X1014 atoms.cm 3 as shown in Fig. 4A. Next, a field insulating film 117 consisting of SiOl is formed by the local thermal oxidation of the main surface of the substrate 103, and a gate insulating film 118 is formed by the thermal oxidation of the main surface of the substrate 103 at the portion where the field insulating film 117 does not exist active region .Under this state boron B is ion implanted to the entire surface in order to adjust the threshold voltage of the N channel MOSFET 101. On the other hand, this ion implantation forms a P type channel layer 115 having a concentration of 5x10 atoms.cm 2 dose 1X1012 atoms.cm 2 on the sui face of the Style well 111. In this embodiment, the single ion implantation step controls the threshold voltage and forms the buried channel. Therefore, when the well 111 is formed, its impurity concentration is determined independently of the impurity concentration of the substrate 103. This makes it easy to set the dose of ion implantation. Next, the polycrystalline silicon formed on the entire surface of the substrate by CVD is selectively etched to form the gate electrodes 105, 112 on the gate insulating film 118 as shown in Fig. 2B. One of the regions N type well 111 is covered with a photoresist film 121 as shown in Fig. 4C.Under this state an N type impurity such as phosphorus P is ion implanted using the gate electrode 5 as the mask to form a semiconductor layer 109 having a low impurity concentration of 1x101S atoms.cm dose 1x10l atoms.cm 2 in the P type well 104. After the photoresist film 121 is removed, a silicon dioxide SiO2 film is deposited on the entire upper surface of the substrate by CVD and is then etched anisotropically by RIE reactive ion etching .In this manner, sidewall spacers 106, 116 are formed on both sides of each of the gate electrodes 105, 112. Next, the N type well 111 is again masked by the photoresist film 122 as shown in Fig. 4E. Under this state an N type impurity such as arsenic As is ion implanted using the gate electrode 105 and the sidewall spacers 106 as the mask, thereby forming a semiconductor layer 108 having a high impurity concentration of 1X102l atoms.cm 3 dose 1x101 atoms cm 2 . As a result, the low impurity concentration layer 109 and the high impurity concentration layer 108 together constitute the sourcedrain region 107 of the LDD structure. In other words, an N channel MOSFET of the LDD structure is formed on the P type well 104. Next, the N channel MOSFET 101 thus completed is masked by the photoresist film 123 as shown in Fig. 4F. Under this state a P type impurity such as boron B is ion implanted using the gate electrode 112 and the sidewall spacers 116 as the mask. The concentration is 1020 atoms.cm 2 dose 2X10l5 atoms. cm 2 and is relatively high, and diffusion is effected until the end portion of the region 113 reaches the intermediate position below the sidewall spacer 116. There is thus formed the source drain region 113 which is isolated from the gate electrode 112 but continues the channel layer 115 as shown inFig. 4G, and a P channel MOSFET 102 is completed. Next, a PSG film 119 as an interlevei insulating film 119 is formed as shown in Fig. 4H. After a contact hole is formed, an aluminum film is deposited by spattering and is patterned to form an aluminum wiring 120. After the first aluminum wiring 120 is thus formed as shown in Fig. 41, silicon nitride is deposited on the entire surface by plasma CVD at normal or low temperature to form a silicon nitride film 130A whose thickness is substantially equal to that of the first At wiring layer 120. Next, the entire surface is etched by an etching process having high anisotropy such as RIE reactive ion etching , whereby the silicon nitride film 130A is etched and removed at the portions other than both sides of the first AL wiring layer 120, and remains only on both sides of the first AL wiring layer 120, thereby forming the sidewalls 130. Each sidewall 130 has a curved surface of a gentle slope and substantially mitigates the steps on both sides of the first At wiring layer 120.In this embodiment, the etching selection ratio of PSG as the insulating film to silicon nitride to be etched is great. In other words, though the silicon nitride film is etched, the PSG film is hardly etched . Therefore, the silicon nitride film 130A can be etched effectively without drastically etching the insulating film 119. According to the multi layered wiring structure having the construction described above, the inclination on both sides of the first Al wiring layer 120 is mitigated by the sidewalls 130 so that a steep step can be avoided and the surface step of the PSG film 131 to be formed thereon can be made smooth and almost flat as shown in Fig. 4K. Next, when a second AL wiring layer 132 is to be formed, too, coverage can be improved on both sides of the first AL wiring layer 120 and cut of the step does not occur, and the non etched portion is not left at the time of patterning of the second At wiring layer 132. Since this construction does not use the SOG film, high temperature annealing treatment is not necessary when forming the sidewalls 130 and thePSG film 131. Since heat treatment is restricted to around 2000C at the time of CVD, any hillock does not occur on the surface of the first AL wiring layer 120. Since no SOG film is used, peel or swell of the film does not occur, either, and hence the float and breakage of the second At wiring layer 132 can of course be prevented The effects that may be achievable will be discussed below. The sidewalls of the insulating material are formed on both sides of the lower metal wiring layer so as to mitigate the inclination and to make fiat the upper surFace of the sidewalls. Therefore, csrage of the upper metal wiring layer to be formed on the insulating film can be improved and cut of the step can be prevented At the same time, femaEer of etching can be prevented at the time of forming the upper metal wiring layer, and re liability of the upper metal wiring layer can be impro eed. Since no SOG film is used, high temperature Ireatment at the time of annealing is not necessary and hence any hiliock does not occur on the metal wiring layers, particularly on the lower aluminum wiring layer and its reliability can be improved. Since no SOG film is used as the interievel insulating film, peel or expansion of the film does not occur and particularly, the float and breakage of the upper metal wiring layer can be prevented. Since the sidewalls can be formed by the film deposition step by CVD and the anisotropic etching step, they can be formed by an extremely small number of steps and the production process of the multilayered wiring structure can be simplified. Although the present invention has thus been described in its preferred forms, the invention is not particularly limited thereto but can of course be practised in various manners without departing from the gist and scope thereof For example, silicon dioxide Si02 by plasmaCVD by using suitable conditions for the etching gas and PSG can be used for the sidewalls. If a large etching selection ratio can be obtained with respect to the base layer, other materials can also be used. Furthermore, materials other than alu minum At can be used for the upper and lower metal wiring layers. Although the invention has been described with primary reference to the semiconductor device having the two layered wiring structure as the background and field of the present invention, the present invention is not particularly limited thereto but can also be applied to semiconductor devices having a three or more layered wiring layer. Furthermore, the production process of theCMOS IC described above is easier than the conventional processes. For, the channel layer 115 can be formed at the step where the impurity for adjusting the threshold voltage of the MOSFET having the opposite conductivity type is introduced.The sidewalls can be formed at the same process step as that of the LDD structure. Unlike the sub strate 103, the channel layer is disposed in the well 111 having a higher impurity concentration than the substrate so that the introduction step of an impurity having an opposite conductivity type to the channel layer for forming the buried channel is not particularly necessary. The characteristics of theMOS transistor 102 can be determined by controlling the concentration of the well 111. Besides the effects described above, the present invention may also provide the following effects. The source drain region of MOSFET has the offset structure with respect to the gate electrode and continues the channel layer having the same conductivity type. Therefore, part of the channel layer can function as a field mitigation region and the resistance can be reduced by. the source drain region having a high impurity concentration.. As a result, MOSFET having a high breakdown voltage, a high operation speed and a reduced short channel effect can be completed. Even when the channel layer and the sourcedrain region are constituted by the same impurity. the breakdown voltage, the high operation speed and the reduction of the short channel effect can be accomplished in substantially the same way as the LDD structure. Therefore, miniaturization of the P channel MOS transistor and eventually, a semiconductor device containing the P channelMOS transistor, can be accomplished. Part of the production step of CMOS IC containing the N channel MOSFET having the LDD structure is utilized as such in order to form CMOSIC containing the transistor having the structure of the present invention, and the production process becomes extremely easy. The structure of the present invention can be applied, for example, to the N channel MOSFET formed on the P type substrate or the well . AnN type source drain region having a high impurity concentration is formed by self alignment utilizing the N type channel layer having a low impurity concentration, the gate electrode and the sidewall spacers. As or P may be used as the impurity. In order to obtain an enhancement type N channelMOSFET having a buried channel, it is important that the gate electrode be composed of polycrystalline silicon into which a P type impurity such as B is introduced in a high concentration, or be composed of a material having the equal or approximate work function to that of polycrystalline silicon. Ion implantation shown in Fig. 4A may be divided into two steps. In other words, the ion implantation for forming the channel region 115 of one MOSFET may be effected separately from the ion implantation for adjusting the threshold voltage of the other MOSFET. In this case, the dose of the impurity to be doped may be decided to an optimal value independenfly of each other. The well region 111 having the same conductivity type as that of the substrate 103 can be omitted. Particularly when the ion implantation shown in Fig. 4A is divided into the two steps as described above, the well region 111 may be dew leted. The channel region 115 may be formed in the spaced apart relation from the main surface of the semiconductor substrate so long as the depletion layer formed on the main surface of the semiconductor substrate by the work function of the gate electrode is under such a state where it covers the channel region 115. In this case, MOSFET becomes of an enhancement type. When the source drain region consisting of the semiconductor region having a high impurity concentration is formed in the spaced apart relation from the gate electrode, it may be formed without using the sidewall spacers, such as ion implantation using a mask consisting of a photoresist film. The gate electrode for forming the enhancement type MOSFET having the buried channel may have a pblycide structure. In other words, it is possible to use a gate electrode consisting of a polycrystalline silicon layer into which B or P is doped and a silicide layer of a refractory metal e.g. Mo, W, Ta, rs that is formed on the polycrystalline silicon layer. Furthermore, the gate electrode may have a structure in which the layer of the refractory metal described above is formed on the polycrystalline silicon layer. When the sidewall is formed by the silicon dioxide SiO2 film which is in turn formed by CVD hot carrier trap can be reduced by effecting heattreatment in an 02 atmosphere after the formation of the sidewall spacers to improve the film properties of the sidewall spacers. The description given above primarily deals with the application of the present invention to theCMOS device as the background and field of utilization of the present invention, but the present invention is not particularly limited to the embodiments given already. For example. the invention can also be applied to ICs consisting solely of Pchannel MOSFETs or N channel MOSFETs. When the present invention is applied toCMOS IC, the N channel MOSFET need not have the LDD structure. Furthermore, the present invention may be applied to the N channel MOSFETs or both the N and P channel MOSFETs in CMOS IC.