# A process for preparing ceramic materials.

## Abstract
A method of preparing ceramic materials or articles by the pyrolysis of preceramic silazane polymers, wherein the preceramic silazane polymers are rendered infusible prior to pyrolysis by treatment with steam or a steam and oxygen mixture, is disclosed. This method is especially suited for the preparation of ceramic fibers.

## Claims
Claims 1. A method of preparing a ceramic material, which method comprises 1 treating a preceramic silazane polymer with steam for a time sufficient to render the preceramic silazane polymer infusible wherein the treatment temperature is sufficiently low so that the preceramic silazane polymer remains unfused during the treatment step and 2 heating the infusible preceramic silazane polymer of step 1 in an inert atmosphere, vacuum or ammoniacontaining atmosphere to a temperature of at least 7500C until said infusible preceramic silazane polymer is converted to a ceramic material. 2. A method as defined in claim 1 wherein said preceramic silazane polymer is treated with steam at a temperature below the penetration temperature of said preceramic silazane polymer and wherein said preceramic silazane polymer is prepared by contacting and reacting in an inert, essentially anhydrous, atmosphere, an organochlorosilane or a mixture of organochlorosilanes of the general formula R cSCl 4 c with a disilazane having the general formula R3Si 2NH at a temperature in the range of 250C to 300QC while distilling byproduced volatile products, wherein R is selected from the group consisting of vinyl, phenyl, and alkyl radicals containing 1 to 3 carbon atoms R is selected from the group consisting of vinyl, hydrogen, phenyl, and alkyl radicals containing 1 to 3 carbon atoms and c has a value of 1 or 2. 3. A method as defined in claim 1 wherein said preceramic silazane polymer is treated with steam at a temperature below the penetration temperature of said preceramic silazane polymer and wherein said preceramic silazane polymer is prepared by contacting and reacting in an inert, essentially anhydrous, atmosphere, a chlorinecontaining disilane or a mixture of chlorine containing disilanes, of the general formula CldR Si with a disilazane having the general formula R,Si 2NH at a temperature in the range of 25 C to 3000C while distilling byproduced volatile products, wherein R is selected from the group consisting of vinyl, phenyl, and alkyl radicals containing 1 to 3 carbon atoms R is selected from the group consisting of vinyl, hydrogen, phenyl, and alkyl radicals containing 1 to 3 carbon atoms d has a value of 0.5 3 e has a value of 0 2.5 and the sum of d e is equal to three. 4. A method as defined in claim 1 wherein said preceramic silazane polymer is treated with steam at a temperature below the penetration temperature of said preceramic silazane polymer and wherein said preceramic silazane polymer is prepared by contacting and reacting in an inert, essentially anhydrous atmosphere, trichlorosilane with a disilazane at a temperature in the range of 250C to 3000C while removing byproduced volatile products, wherein said disilazane has the general formula R3Si 2NH where R is selected from the group consisting of vinyl, hydrogen, phenyl, and alkyl radicals containing 1 to 3 carbon atoms. 5. A method as defined in claim 1 wherein said preceramic silazane polymer is treated with steam at a temperature below the penetration temperature of said preceramic silazane polymer and wherein said preceramic silazane polymer is prepared by contacting and reacting in an inert, essentially anhydrous, atmosphere, a mixture of 1 chlorine containing disilane or a mixture of chlorinecontaining disilanes, of the general formula C1,R 2 and 2 an organochlorosilane or a mixture of organochlorosilanes of the general formula R cSlCl 4 c with a disilazane having the general formula R3Si 2NH at a temperature in the range of 250C to 3000C while distilling byproduced volatile products, wherein R is selected from the group consisting of vinyl, phenyl, and alkyl radicals containing 1 to 3 carbon atoms R is selected from the group consisting of vinyl, hydrogen, phenyl, and alkyl radicals containing 1 to 3 carbon atoms d has a value of 0.5 3 e has a value of 0 2.5 the sum of d e is equal to three and c has a value of 1 or 2. 6. A method of preparing a ceramic material, which method comprises 1 treating a preceramic silazane polymer with a steam and oxygen mixture for a time sufficient to render the preceramic silazane polymer infusible wherein the treatment temperature is sufficiently low so that the preceramic silazane polymer remains unfused during the treatment step and 2 heating the infusible preceramic silazane polymer of step 1 in an inert atmosphere, vacuum or ammonia containing atmosphere to a temperature of at least 7500C until said infusible preceramic silazane polymer is converted to a ceramic material. 7. Ceramic fibers prepared by the method comprising the steps of 1 preparing a preceramic silazane polymer, 2 preparing preceramic fibers from said preceramic silazane polymer, 3 treating the preceramic fibers prepared in step 2 with steam or a steam and oxygen mixture for a time sufficient to render the preceramic fibers infusible wherein the treatment temperature is sufficiently low so that the preceramic silazane fibers remain unfused during the treatment step and 4 heating the infusible preceramic fibers of step 3 in an inert atmosphere, vacuum or ammonia containing atmosphere to a temperature of at least 7500C until said infusible preceramic fibers are converted to ceramic fibers.

## Description
A PROCESS FOR PREPARING CERAMIC MATERIALS This invention relates to the preparation of ceramic materials or articles by the pyrolysis of preceramic silazane polymers wherein the preceramic silazane polymers are rendered infusible prior to pyrolysis by treatment with steam or a steam and oxygen mixture. This method is especially suited for the preparation of ceramic fibers. The prior art discloses that ceramic materials have been prepared by the pyrolysis of preceramic silazane polymers. Gaul in U.S. Patent 4,312,970 issuedJanuary 26, 1982 obtained ceramic materials by the pyrolysis of preceramic silazane polymers , which polymers were prepared by reacting organochlorosilanes and disilazanes. The preceramic silazane polymers were pyrolyzed in an inert atmosphere without any separate treatment to render the silazane preceramic polymer infusible. Gaul in U.S. Patent 4,340,619 issued July 20, 1982 obtained ceramic materials by the pyrolysis of preceramic silazane polymers, which polymers were prepared by reacting chlorine containing disilanes and disilazanes.Fibers prepared from such preceramic silazane polymers were given a mild heat treatment in air before pyrolysis but there is no teaching that such a treatment rendered the fibers infusible. Cannady in U.S. Patent Application Serial No.555,755, filed November 28, 1983 obtained ceramic materials by the pyrolysis of preceramic silazane polymers, which polymers were prepared by reacting trichlorosilane and disilazane. The preceramic silazane polymers were not rendered infusible prior to pyrolysis, in order to form ceramic materials. What has been discovered is a method of rendering preceramic silazane polymers infusible prior to pyrolysis.This method represents a significant advance in the art of preparing ceramic materials or articles, especially in the art of preparing ceramic fibers. This invention relates to a method of preparing a ceramic material, which method comprises 1 treating a preceramic silazane polymer with steam for a time sufficient to render the preceramic silazane polymer infusible wherein the treatment temperature is sufficiently low so that the preceramic silazane polymer remains unfused during the treatment step and 2 heating the infusible preceramic silazane polymer of step 1 in an inert atmosphere, vacuum or ammonia containing atmosphere to a temperature of at least 75O0C until said infusible preceramic silazane polymer is converted to a ceramic material. This invention also relates to a method of preparing a ceramic material, which method comprises 1 treating a preceramic silazane polymer with steam at a temperature below the penetration temperature of the preceramic silazane polymer for a time sufficient to render the preceramic silazane polymer infusible and 2 heating the infusible preceramic silazane polymer of step 1 in an inert atmosphere, vacuum or ammonia containing atmosphere to a temperature of at least 7500C until said infusible preceramic silazane polymer is converted to a ceramic material. This invention also relates to a method of preparing a ceramic material, which method comprises 1 treating a preceramic silazane polymer with a steam and oxygen mixture for a time sufficient to render the preceramic silazane polymer infusible wherein the treatment temperature is sufficiently low so that the preceramic silazane polymer remains unfused during the treatment step and 2 heating the infusible preceramic silazane polymer of step 1 in an inert atmosphere, vacuum or ammoniacontaining atmosphere to a temperature of at least 7500C until said infusible preceramic silazane polymer is converted to a ceramic material. This invention also relates to a method of preparing a ceramic material, which method comprises 1 treating a preceramic silazane polymer with a steam and oxygen mixture at a temperature below the penetration temperature of the preceramic silazane polymer for a time sufficient to render the preceramic silazane polymer infusible and 2 heating the infusible preceramic silazane polymer of step 1 in an inert atmosphere, vacuum or ammonia containing atmosphere to a temperature of at least 7500C until said infusible preceramic silazane polymer is converted to a ceramic material. This invention further relates to ceramic fibers prepared by the method comprising the steps of 1 preparing a preceramic silazane polymer, 2 preparing preceramic fibers from said preceramic silazane polymer, 3 treating the preceramic fibers prepared in step 2 with steam or a steam and oxygen mixture for a time sufficient to render the preceramic fibers infusible wherein the treatment temperature is sufficiently low so that the preceramic silazane fibers remain unfused during the treatment step and 4 heating the infusible preceramic fibers of step 3 in an inert atmosphere, vacuum or ammonia containing atmosphere to a temperature of at least 7500C until said infusible preceramic fibers are converted to ceramic fibers. This invention also relates to ceramic fibers prepared by the method comprising the steps of 1 preparing a preceramic silazane polymer, 2 preparing preceramic fibers from said preceramic silazane polymer, 3 treating the preceramic fibers prepared in step 2 with steam or a steam and oxygen mixture at a temperature below the penetration temperature of the preceramic fibers for a time sufficient to render the preceramic fibers infusible and 4 heating the infusible preceramic fibers of step 3 in an inert atmosphere, vacuum or ammonia containing atmosphere to a temperature of at least 7500C until said infusible preceramic fibers are converted to ceramic fibers. Passage of steam or a steam and oxygen mixture over a preceramic silazane polymer will result in an infusible preceramic silazane polymer suitable for pyrolysis to form a ceramic material. Preceramic silazane polymers in the form of pellets, powders, flakes, foams, fibers, and the like are especially suitable for treatment with steam or a steam and oxygen mixture by the method of this invention.The pressure of the steam or the steam and oxygen mixture is not critical. High pressure steam may be used. It is preferred, however, that pressures at or near atmospheric pressure be used for ease of operation. The steam or steam and oxygen mixture may, if desired, contain inert gas dilutants such as argon, nitrogen and the like. The oxygen in the steam and oxygen mixture may be pure or relatively pure oxygen or may be in the form of air. By steam , we mean both essentially 100 weight percent water vapor and water vapor in an inert carrier gas such as nitrogen, argon, helium, carbon dioxide and the like. The temperature of the treatment of the preceramic silazane with the steam or steam and oxygen mixture must be sufficiently low so that the preceramic polymer does not melt or fuse during the treatment step. Preferably, the treatment temperature is below the penetration temperature or softening temperature of the preceramic silazane polymer.The treatment temperature must be above the temperature at which the steam will condense as water droplets on the preceramic silazane polymer being treated.As one skilled in the art would realize, the penetration temperature of individual preceramic silazane polymers will depend in large part upon the reactants and reaction conditions employed to prepare each preceramic silazane polymer. Therefore, the penetration temperature of a given preceramic silazane polymer should be determined to establish the preferred upper temperature limit of treatment with steam or a steam and oxygen mixture. More preferably, the temperature of the treatment with steam or a steam and oxygen mixture should be between about 350C and about 100C below the penetration temperature of the preceramic silazane polymer. The treatment temperature must be, however, above the temperature at which steam will condense as water droplets on the preceramic silazane polymer being treated. The pressure of the treatment gas can be varied to help control condensation. Shorter treatment times to render the preceramic silazane polymer infusible can be expected if the treatment temperature is kept as high as possible. Within these constraints, it generally has been found that temperatures between about 35 and 2000C are suitable. One way to avoid the possibility of water condensing on the ceramic article during treatment is to use air or oxygen saturated with water vapor at room temperature and a treatment temperature greater than about 100C above room temperature. The preceramic silazane polymers are treated with steam or a steam and oxygen mixture for a time sufficient to render the preceramic silazane polymer infusible. What is meant by infusible in this specification is that the treated preceramic silazane polymer when heated rapidly up to the pyrolysis temperature will not fuse together. A crude screen for infusibility is provided by the solubility of the preceramic silazane polymer in toluene. Prior to treatment with steam or a steam and oxygen mixture the preceramic silazane polymers are almost completely soluble in toluene. The infusible preceramic silazane polymers obtained by treatment by the method of this invention are either insoluble in toluene or have only limited solubility in toluene.The time required to render the preceramic silazane polymer infusible by the method of this invention will depend, in part, on the size of the preceramic silazane polymer object, the temperature of the treatment, the amount of water vapor or water vapor and oxygen present, and the specific preceramic silazane polymer employed. The time required to render the preceramic silazane polymer infnsble will normally be in the range of a few minutes to several hours or longer. It is best to determine the treatment time by routine experimentation. The amount of steam or steam and oxygen mixture that the preceramic silazane polymer should be exposed to is the amount sufficient to render the preceramic silazane polymer infusible. This required amount will vary from case to case depending, in part, upon the temperature, pressure, the time of exposure and the actual preceramic silazane polymer used as well as other variables. When the preceramic silazane polymer is in the shape of a formed object such as a fiber it is not necessary to render the entire shaped article infusible. Rather only the outer surfaces, and sufficient interior portions directly adjacent to the outer surfaces, need be rendered infusible, The interior portion of the shaped article may be cured during the pyrolysis of the shaped article to elevated temperature.Simply rendering the exterior infusible will prevent the shaped articles from fusing together during the pyrolysis unless a break in the exterior surface occurs which allows the nonfused interior to leak out. Preceramic silazane polymers suitable for use in this present invention are well known in the art. The preceramic silazane polymers suitable for use in this invention must be capable of being converted to a ceramic material at elevated temperatures. It is generally preferred that the preceramic silazane polymers used in this invention be capable of being converted to a ceramic material in at least 40 weight percent yield. Mixtures of preceramic silazane polymers may also be used in this invention. Examples of preceramic silazane polymers or polysilazanes suitable for use in this invention include polysilazanes as described byGaul in U.S. Patents 4,312,970 issued January 26, 1982 , 4,340,619 issued July 20,1982 , 4,395,460 issued July 26,1983 , and 4,404,153 issued September 13, 1983 .Suitable polysilazanes also include those described byHaluska in U.S. Patent 4,482,689 issued November 13, 1984 and by Seyferth et al. in U.S. Patent 4,397,828 issuedAugust 9, 1983 . Other polysilazanes suitable for use in this invention are disclosed by Cannady in U.S. PatentApplications Serial Number 555,755 filed November 28, 1983 , Serial Number 627,260 filed July 2,1984 , and SerialNumber 689,258 filed January 7, 1985 , by Bujalski in U.S.Patent Application Serial Number 653,003 filed September 21, 1984 , and by Baney et al. in U.S. Patent ApplicationsSerial Number 652,938 filed September 21, 1984 and SerialNumber 653,939 filed September 21, 1984 . Still other polysilazanes may be suitable for use in this invention. Preceramic silazane polymers especially useful in this invention are described in U.S. Patents 4,312,970 and 4,340,619 and U.S. Patent Application Serial No. 555,755 filed November 28, 1983. The preceramic silazane polymers described in U.S.Patent 4,312,970 are prepared by contacting and reacting in an inert, essentially anhydrous, atmosphere, an organochlorosilane or a mixture of organochlorosilanes of the general formula R cSiCl with a disilazane having the general formula R3Si 2NH at a temperature in the range of 250C to 3000C while distilling byproduced volatile products, wherein R is selected from the group consisting of vinyl, phenyl, and alkyl radicals containing 1 to 3 carbon atoms R is selected from the group consisting of vinyl, hydrogen, phenyl, and alkyl radicals containing I to 3 carbon atoms and c has a value of 1 or 2. The organochloromonosilanes of U.S. Patent No.4,312,970 are those having the general formula R cSiCl 4 c where R is vinyl or an alkyl radical containing 1 3 carbon atoms or the phenyl group. Thus, those groups which are contemplated as being useful in this invention are methyl, methyl, propyl, vinyl, and phenyl. The R groups can all be the same or they can be different. The organochloromonosilanes are common commodity chemicals and are commercially available and, therefore, an explanation as to their preparation does not appear to be necessary. The value of c is 1 or 2.Thus, single organic group substituted silanes such as CH3SiC13, C6H5SiC13, CH2 CHSiC13, CH3CH2SiC13 or CH3 CH2 2SiC13 and double organic substituted silanes such as CH3 2SiC12, C2H5 2SiC12 and CH2 CH CH3 SiC12 and mixtures of such silanes, for example, CH3SiCl3 and CH3 2SiC12, can be used. It is preferred that when organochlorosilane mixtures are used, the number of units of diorgano substituted silicon atoms should not exceed the number of units of monoorgano substituted silicon atoms. The preceramic silazane polymers of U.S. PatentNo. 4,340,619 are prepared by contacting and reacting in an inert, essentially anhydrous, atmosphere, a chlorinecontaining disilane or a mixture of chlorine containing disilanes, of the general formula C1 R Si with a disilazane having the general formula R3Si 2NH at a temperature in the range of 25 C to 3000C while distilling byproduced volatile products, wherein R is selected from the group consisting of vinyl, phenyl, and alkyl radicals containing 1 to 3 carbon atoms R is selected from the group consisting of vinyl, hydrogen, phenyl, and alkyl radicals containing 1 to 3 carbon atoms d has a value of 0.5 3 e has a value of 0 2.5 and the sum of d e is equal to three. The chlorine containing disilanes of U.S. PatentNo. 4,340,619 are those disilanes having the general formula CldR Si 2 whEre R is vinyl, an alkyl radical containing 1 3 carbon atoms or the phenyl group. Thus, the R groups are methyl, ethyl, propyl, vinyl and phenyl. The R groups can all be the same or they can be different. The chlorine containing disilanes can be those found in the residue from the DirectProcess for producing halosilanes Eaborn, C., Organosilicon Compounds , Butterworth ScientificPublications, London, 1960, pg. 1 . The Direct Process is the reaction between silicon metal and aliphatic halides, generally methyl chloride, at elevated temperature in the presence of catalyst, generally copper, to produce chlorosilanes.For the chlorine containing disilanes described above, the value of d and e is from 0.5 3 and 0 2.5 respectively, and the sum of d e is equal to three.Examples of chlorine containing disilanes are C12 CH3 Si 2, C1 CH3 2Si 2 C12C2H5Si 2 Cl C6H5 2Si 2 and C12 CH2 CH Si 2. Monosilanes can also be used in admixtures with the above described chlorine containing disilanes. Examples include CH3SiC13, CH3 2SiC12, H CH3 2SiCl, CH3 3SiCl, CH2 CH CH3 2SiCl, C2H5 2SiCl2, C6H5SiC13, as well as C6H5 2SiC12, and C6H5 3SiCl. then polysilazane polymers are prepared in accordance with U.S.Patent 4,340,619 for use in this invention, it is preferred that mixtures of chlorine containing disilanes be employed where the number of units of diorgano substituted silicon atoms does not exceed the number of units of monoorganosubstituted silicon atoms. The preceramic silazane polymers of ApplicationSerial Number 555,755 are prepared by contacting and reacting in an inert, essentially anhydrous atmosphere, trichlorosilane with a disilazane at a temperature in the range of 25 to 3000C while removing byproduced volatile products, wherein said disilazane has the general formula R3Si 2NH where R is selected from the group consisting of vinyl, hydrogen, phenyl, and alkyl radicals containing 1 to 3 carbon atoms. It appears that some component, possibly a hydrolysis product, in aged trichlorosilane is detrimental in the preparation of this preceramic silazane polymer.Such contaminated trichlorosilanes can be suitably purified by distillation. Other purification methods may also be employed. It is also preferred that the reactants be added in such a manner that the initial reaction exotherm is kept to a minimum. One reactant may be added slowly to the other reactant, or the added reactant may be cooled, or the reaction vessel may be cooled to keep the reaction exotherm low. Other methods or combinations of methods may also be used. In general, it is preferred that the reaction be controlled such that the initial reaction temperature due to the exotherm is less than about 50 C, and most preferably, less than 350C. In general, more reproducible results are obtained when purified trichlorosilane is used and when the initial reaction exotherm is controlled carefully. The second reactant in U.S. Patent 4,312,970, U.S.Patent 4,340,619, and Application Serial Number 555,755 is a disilazane of the general formula R3Si 2NH. R in this formula is vinyl, hydrogen, an alkyl radical of 1 3 carbon atoms or the phenyl group. Therefore, R, for purposes of this formula, is represented by hydrogen, methyl, ethyl propyl, vinyl and phenyl. Each R group in this formula can be the same or they can be different. Examples of the disilazanes include CH3 3Si 2NH, C6H5 CH3 2Si 2NH, C6H5 2CH3 Si 2NH, CH2 CH CH3 2Si 2NH, CH2 CH CH3 C6H5Si 2NH, CH2 CH C6H5 2Si 2NH, CH2 CH C2H5 2Si 2NH, H CH3 2Si 2NH and CH2 CH C6H5 C2H5Si 2NH. The reactants in U.S. Patent 4,312,970, U.S.Patent 4,340,619, and Application Serial Number 555,755 are brought together in an inert, essentially anhydrous atmosphere. By inert , we mean that the reaction is carried out under a blanket of inert gas, such as argon, nitrogen, or helium. What we mean by essentially anhydrous is that the reaction is preferably carried out in an absolutely anhydrous atmosphere but minute amounts of moisture can be tolerated. When the reactants are contacted with each other, as described in U.S. Patents 4,312,970 and 4,340,619 andApplication Serial Number 555,755 the reaction begins which forms an intermediate amino compound. Upon heating, additional amino compound is formed and upon continued heating, R3SiCl is distilled from the reaction mixture and a silazane polymer is formed. The order of addition of the materials does not appear to be critical. As the temperature is raised higher, more condensation takes place and crosslinking occurs with residual R3Si that is not distilled from the mixture acting as a chain stopper. This control allows one to stop the reaction at any point to obtain almost any desired viscosity. The desirable temperature range for this reaction is 25 to 3000C.A preferred temperature range for this reaction is 125 to 3000C. The length of time that the reaction requires depends on the temperature employed and the viscosity one wishes to achieve. What is meant by volatile products are the distillable byproduced products that are formed by the reactions set forth above. These materials can be represented by CH3 3siCl, CH2 CH C6H5 2SiCl,CH3 C6H5 2SiCl, CH312C6H5SiCl and CH2 CH CH3 2SiCl. Sometimes, the process requires the use of a vacuum along with the heat in order to remove these materials from the reaction mixture. After the preceramic silazane polymer has been rendered infusible by treatment with steam or a steam and oxygen mixture, the infusible preceramic silazane polymer is fired to an elevated temperature of at least 7500C in an inert atmosphere, vacuum or ammonia containing atmosphere until the mixture is converted to a ceramic material. Preferably, the pyrolysis temperature is from about 1000 C to about 1600 C. Since the preceramic silazane polymers of this invention have been rendered infusible prior to pyrolysis, the pyrolysis step may be carried out by quickly raising the temperature to the desired level. If the preceramic silazane polymer is of sufficient viscosity or if it possesses a sufficiently low melt temperature, it can be shaped first, then rendered infusible, and then finally pyrolyzed to give a ceramic shaped article such as a fiber.Preferably, the preceramic silazane polymers used in the practice of this invention have a penetration temperature of about 50 to 3000C and most preferably in the range of 70 to 2000C. Such a penetration temperature allows for the formation of preceramic silazane fibers by known spinning techniques. So that those skilled in the art can better appreciate and understand the invention, the following examples are given. Unless otherwise indicated, all percentages are by weight. The preceramic polymers were fired to elevated temperature using either an AstroIndustries Furnace 1000A water cooled graphite resistance heated model 1000.3060 FP 12, a Lindberg tube furnace Heavy Duty SB Type S4877A or a Thermolyne F 21100 tube furnace. Oxygen was determined using LECO analysis. The penetration temperature of the preceramic silazane polymer was measured with a DuPont InstrumentsThermoanalyzer Model 1090 equipped with a Model 1091 DuPontDisk Memory and a DuPont Model 943 ThermomechanicalAnalyzer. The penetration temperature is related to the softening point temperature. The tensile strength and elastic modulus were determined on a single fiber employing a computer controlled Instron tester Model 1122 equipped with pneumatic jaws and a 500 g load cell. Values reported are an average of ten individual tests. The procedure used was similar to ASTM 3379 75.Example 1 A preceramic silazane polymer, labeled polymer A, was prepared by reacting a mixture of disilanes obtained from the direct process and phenylvinyldichlorosilane with hexamethyldisilazane. The mixture of disilanes and phenylvinyldiclorosilane contained 49.1 weight percentC12CH3SiSiCH3C12, 28.2 weight percent C12CH3SiSi CH3 2Cl, 6.4 weight percent Cl CH3 2SiSi CH3 2C1, 0.7 weight percent low boiling impurities, and 15.4 weight percent C6H5 CH2 CH SiCl2. The hexamethyldisilazane was added to the disilane mixture at a level equivalent to 0.75 moles ofN H present in the hexamethyldisilazane per mole of Si Cl present in the disilane and silane mixture.The resulting mixture was heated at a rate of 1.1OC min. to 2300C. All reaction steps were carried out under a nitrogen atmosphere.Volatiles were removed by distillation throughout the heating process. The resulting silazane polymer A had a penetration temperature of about 700C. Preceramic fibers were prepared by standard spinning techniques at 1440C by extrusion through a spinneret with 0.01 inch diameter holes.The preceramic silazane fibers prepared from polymer A were approximately 30 microns in diameter. Another preceramic silazane polymer, labeled polymer B, was prepared in a similar manner except as noted.The mixture of disilanes and phenylvinyldichlorosilane contained 49.8 weight percent C12CH3SiSiCH3C12, 27.7 weight percent C12CH3SiSi CH3 2Cl, 6.7 weight percentCl CH3 2SiSi CH3 2Cl, 1.0 weight percent low boiling impurities, and 14.7 weight percent C6H5 CH2 CH SiCl2. The resulting mixture was heated at a rate of 1.1 C min. to 230 C and held at 2300C for 30 minutes. The resulting polymer B had a penetration temperature of about 1360C.Preceramic fibers were prepared by standard spinning techniques at 2190C. The preceramic silazane fibers prepared from polymer B were approximately 15 microns in diameter. A small sample 0.1 0.5 g of fibers was placed in a glass tube inserted in a tube furnace. The fibers were cured or rendered infusible by exposure to humidified air at various temperatures for varying lengths of time. The humidified air was prepared by bubbling air through liquid water at room temperature before passage over the fibers.The humidified air was at about 100 percent relative humidity at room temperature. After treatment with humidified air, the fibers were pyrolyzed in an argon atmosphere by heating the fibers at a rate of 30C min. to 12000C. The results are presented in Table I. For runs where only one temperature is given, the fibers were exposed to the humidified air at a constant temperature for the listed amount of time. Where a temperature range is given, the fibers were exposed to the humidified air by heating from the lower to higher temperature at a rate of 3.750C min and then holding at the higher temperature for the remainder of the specified time. None of the fibers treated with humidified air under the conditions indicated in Table I meted or fused together upon pyrolysis to 12000C.Preceramic fibers which were not cured or rendered infusible did fuse together upon pyrolysis to 12000C. Table I CURE CONDITIONS CERAMIC FIBERS CERAMIC POLYMER TEMP OC TIME hrs OXYGEN YIELD A 65 17.0 10.8 74.3 B 65 150 22.5 24.0 74.0 B 65 175 31.0 27.0 75.0 B 65 200 36.0 30.0 77.0Example 2 Another preceramic silazane polymer was prepared using the procedures outlined in U.S. Patent ApplicationSerial Number 555,755 filed November 28, 1983 . The preceramic polymer was prepared by mixing one equivalent of trichlorosilane with 2.25 equivalents of hexamethyldisilazane at 0 15 C. The mixture was held at room temperature overnight and then heated at a rate of 10 C min. to 2500C. The reaction mixture was held at 2500C for one hour. All reaction steps were carried out under an argon atmosphere.During the heating period, volatiles were removed by distillation. The preceramic polymer was cooled, dissolved in toluene, filtered through a 0.45 micron membrane, and then strip distilled at 2500C under vacuum in a molecular still. The resulting preceramic polymer had a penetration temperature of 760C. The preceramic polymer was spun into fibers using a melt rheometer with a single 0.02 inch orifice at a temperature of 1540C. The preceramic fibers had diameters of 40 50 microns. One sample of these preceramic fibers was fired in a 100 volume percent ammonia atmosphere. The fibers were not cured prior to the ammonia pyrolysis. After the pyrolysis to 12000C the fiber had melted and fused together. Another sample of these preceramic fibers was cured by exposure to humidified air. The fibers were exposed to humidified air about 8 cfh flow and 100 percent relative humidity at room temperature where the temperature was raised from 35 to 1650C at a rate of 2.70C hr. Both cured and uncured fiber samples were pyrolyzed to 12000C in a 100 volume percent ammonia atmosphere. Samples with no cure melted and fused during pyrolysis to 12000C. Cured fibers did not melt or fuse when pyrolyzed to 12000C. The results are given in Table II.Uncured preceramic fibers gave a white, fused, ceramic mass with a ceramic yield of 50.7 weight percent. Cured preceramic fibers gave white ceramic fibers with a ceramic yield of 63.6 weight percent which contained 31.4 weight percent nitrogen and about 0.1 weight percent carbon and which had a tensile strength of 26 MPa and an elastic modulus of 6.9 GPa. Example 3 Preceramic silazane fibers similar to those used in Example 2 were used in this example. The fibers were treated with humidified air containing approximately 100 percent relative humidity at room temperature using the procedure of Example 1. The cured fibers were then pyrolyzed in an argon atmosphere to 12000C as in Example 1.The results are presented in Table II. None of the fibers treated with humidified air under the conditions indicated in Table II melted or fused together upon pyrolysis to 12000C. Preceramic fibers which were not cured or rendered infusible did fuse together upon pyrolysis to 12000C. Table II CURE CONDITIONS CERAMIC FIBERS CERAMICTEMP 0C TIME hrs OXYGEN YIELD 35 100 48 3.0 58.6 35 120 22 1.2 35 155 32 2.1 35 165 48 17.8 64.0 35 211 47 10.9Example 4 A preceramic silazane polymer was prepared by reacting a mixture of disilanes obtained from the direct process, methylvinyldichlorosilane, and methylhydrogendichlorosilane with hexamethyldisilazane.The mixture of disilanes, methylvinyldichlorosilane, and methylhydrogendichlorsilane contained 50.0 weight percentC12CH3SiSiCH3C12, 36.6 weight percent C12CH3SiSi CH3 2Cl, 2.9 weight percent Cl CH3 2SiSi CH3 2Cl, 5.8 weight percent CH3 CH2 CH SiC12, and 4.7 weight percent CH3 H SiCl2. The hexamethyldisilazane was added to the disilane and silane mixture at a level equivalent to 0.75 moles of N H present in the hexamethyldisilazane per mole of Si Cl present in the disilane and silane mixture. The resulting mixture was heated at a rate of 2.50C min. to 300C and held at 80OC for 20 minutes.The temperature was then raised to 2200C at a rate of 1.00C min. and held at 220QC for 10 minutes. All reaction steps were carried out under an argon atmosphere.Volatiles were removed throughout the heating process. This preceramic silazane polymer had a penetration temperature of 1120C. Fibers were prepared from this material with an average diameter of about 40 microns. The preceramic silazane fibers were exposed to steam or steam and oxygen atmosphere in the same tube furnace used for the later pyrolysis step. The preceramic fibers were placed in a boat in the center of the tube furnace. The system was first flushed with argon. Then the desired gas was passed over the sample boat at the desired temperature. Steam was generated by passage of the desired gas over liquid water prior to entering the tube furnace.The amount of steam in the gas phase was controlled by varying the temperature of the liquid water. The temperature of the liquid water and the preceramic material being treated were controlled independently. After completion of the steam or steam and oxygen treatment, the system was purged with argon and the temperature of the tube furnace increased to the desired pyrolysis temperature under an argon atmosphere. Two techniques were employed to gauge the effectiveness of the steam or steam and oxygen mixture treatment step in rendering the preceramic silazane fibers infusible. A simple solubility test was used to estimate the effectiveness of the treatment step of this invention.A small amount of the fibers was placed in toluene at room temperature and the degree of solubility was observed.Uncured material was essentially completely soluble in toluene whereas material which had been rendered infusible was essentially insoluble in toluene. The second method to evaluate the degree of cure or degree to which the pre ceramic silazane polymer had been rendered infusible was actual pyrolysis. Pyrolysis is a direct test to measure the effectiveness of the treatment. If the fibers do not fuse together, the treatment was sufficient to render the material or fibers infusible. Two basic pyrolysis schedules were employed. With slow pyrolysis , preceramic fibers were heated at 5 to 130C min. to 12000C in argon. With fast pyrolysis , preceramic fibers were heated at 100 C min. to 6000C in argon. Fibers which did not fuse during the pyrolysis treatment were considered to have been rendered infusible by the steam or steam and oxygen mixture treatment and were rated pass . Fibers which were uncured failed both the slow and fast pyrolysis tests. The results are presented in Table III. Table III CURE CONDITIONS PYROLYSIS GAS TEMP OC TIME min. SOLUBILITY SLOW FAST 02 H20 152 1 slightly pass pass soluble 02 H2O 155 2 very slightly pass pass soluble 02 H20 160 3 insoluble pass pass argon 158 1 mostly pass pass H2O insoluble