# Automatically expanding toys and packages containing the same.

## Abstract
A toy such as a plush toy can be constructed so as to use a core or stuffing which can be compressed while under pressure and which will expand when the pressure is relieved in conjunc tion with a flexible cover for the core. The toy is normally packaged under pressure so that it can be handled and shipped. Prior to the toy being used the package is ruptured so as to allow the toy to expand.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A three dimensional toy having an outer cover and an interior filling which in a usual, three dimensional configuration supports and holds said cover in a normal, three dimensional configuration with said cover completely enclosing said filling, said cover being flexible and being capable of being collapsed from said normal configuration to a collapsed configuration which encloses less volume than is enclosed by said cover when said cover is in said normal configuration, said filling being a resilient, compressible filling capable of being collapsed from its usual configuration to a compact configuration which fits within said cover when said cover is in said collapsed configuration, and said filling being capable of being retained by pressure in said compact configuration, and upon the release of pressure holding said filling in said compact configuration, being capable of automatically expanding to its usual configuration and being capable of moving said cover from said collapsed configuration to said normal configuration as it expands. 2. A toy as claimed in claim 1 wherein said filling is a mass of resilient fibers which are capable of bending along their lengths as said filling is compressed from its usual configuration. 3. A toy as claimed in claim 2 wherein said fibers are bonded together into a coherent batt. A A toy as claimed in claim 1 wherein said filling is a mass of lumps of cellular foam like material. 5. A toy as claimed in claim 4 wherein said lumps are secured together so as to make said core a unitary core. 6. A toy as claimed in claim 1 wherein said filling is a monolithic body of an opencelled foam material. 7. A toy as claimed in any of claims 1 to 6 wherein said filling has an irregular, non smooth surface and the cover has an interior surface engaged by said filling when said filling is in said usual configuration and said cover is in said normal configuration so that friction between said filling and said cover minimises shifting of said cover relative to said filling. 8. A toy as claimed in any of claims 1 to 7 wherein said cover is a knitted fabric cover capable of stretching so as to accommodate said filling as said filling expands from its compact configuration to its normal configuration. 9. A toys claimed in any of claims 1 to 7 wherein said cover is a gas tight cover and includes valve means for regulating the admittance of a gas into and out of said cover. 10. A toy as claimed in any of claims 1 to 7 wherein said cover is a gas tight cover and the toy includes inflating means capable of releasing a gas within said cover when manipulated from outside of said cover, said inflating means being located within said cover. 11. A toy as claimed in any of the preceding claims in combination with a container for the toy, said filling being in said compact configuration and said cover being in said collapsed configuration and enclosing said filler, and said container physically engaging said cover and holding and applying force to said cover so as to prevent expansion of said cover and said fillng, until such time as the toy is removed from the container. 12. The combination claimed in claim 11 wherein said container is itself physically strong enough to prevent expansion of said cover and said filler. 13. The combination claimed in claim 11 wherein said container is air tight and the interior thereof is evacuated so that the normal external air pressure exerted on the container serves to prevent expansion of said cover and said filler. 14. The combination claimed in claim 13 wherein the container is an air tight flexible bag. 15. A process of packaging a toy as claimed in any of claims 1 to 10, wherein said toy is packaged by locating it in a package which applies force sufficient to hold said filling in said compact configuration and to hold said cover in said collapsed configuration around said filling, said package being openable subsequently so as to release the force applied to said toy and allow said toy to expand so that said filling assumes its usual configuration and said cover moves into its normal configuration and encloses said filling.

## Description
TITLE AUTOMATICALLY EXPANDING TOYS AND PACKAGES r CONTAINING THE SAMEBACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION The invention set forth in this specification pertains to tne field of three dimensional toys such as commonly referred to as plush or cloth toys or dolls. More specifically it pertains to the construction of such toys, packages containing such toys, and to a process of providing such toys to either a retailer or the ultimate user ot the same. The toys of the type of which this invention pertains are frequently described in the toy industry in various different manners. All of the toys of the type with which this invention is concerned are normally constructed so as to utilize a filling or core which is surrounded by a fabric or similar cover or skin. On occasion they are described as either plush or cloth toys or dolls depending upon the nature or the covers utilized with such toys. If the cover or skin is of a fabric having a nap, particularly a comparatively sort nap, a toy of the type involved is most commonly referred to as a plush toy. On the other hand if the toy is of a type having a conventional fabric or substantially similar exterior the toy may be referred to as a cloth toy or doll. These three dimensional toys have been made in a wide variety of different shapes and configurations.Most commonly they are constructed so as to simulate a fanciful animal such as, for example, a bear. They also may be constructed so as to simulate humans of various ages, fanciful creatures of various different types, and utilitarian structures such as houses, books, and a wide variety of other items. The cover or skin of any such toy may either be sewn so as to simulate items suMH aKsgv eyes, pockets, mouths or the like or various appendage type items simulating such things may be attached to the skins or covers of such toys and, normally, the cores within them. Normally, such auxiliary parts ot a three dimensional toy are carefully secured in place so that they are not apt to come orf and cause damage as a toy is used. Three dimensional toys of the type indicated in the preceding discussion have utilized various different types of fillings or cores. Seemingly, virtually any comparatively non rigid material can be and has been utilized as the filling or core within at least some toys of the type indicated. Various layers of cloth have been etfectively used to form cores within these toys. They have also been filled with all sorts of particles such as beans, porous styrene beads, fiberous strands and bats, polymer foam particles and bodies and the like. At times many of these materials have been unitary bodies created by either bonding foam particles together or by forming a cqmplete monolithic foam core.In selecting a core material it has always been highly desirable to pick a core material which is reasonably satisfactory from a hygienic stanupoint. Without a doubt three dimensional toys as indicated in the preceding discussion are highly desirable and utilitarian. Tremendous volumes of such toys are sold every year. In spite of this it is considered that additional quantities or such toys are capable of being sold if the prices of such toys can be lowered to a significant degree.BRIEF SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION The present invention is intended to accomplish the objective of lowering the price or a YhSee dimensional toy to an ultimate consumer. In accordance with this invention this objective is accomplished by providing toys and packages for such toys which can be shipped to a retailer or an ultimate consumer at a lower cost than it is possible to ship existing three dimensional toys of the type discussed in the preceding. This is achieved by providing structures as are subsequently described which employ a filling capable of being shipped in a compact configuration or shape and a cover for each such filling which is capable or being shipped along with the filling in a collapsed configuration. In the toy of the invention the filling will automatically expand when there is no force tending to hold it in the compact configuration so as to fill or inflate the cover into a normal configuration corresponding to the desired three dimensional configuration of the toy.The invention is also intended to provide packages which include these toys and to provide a process involving steps as will be subsequently explained of packaging these toys at a manufacturing establishment in their collapsed configuration and then, when they are in the hands or a retailer or user, allowing them to automatically expand by releasing them from the packages used. Obviously, the invention has many specific details and aspects which are not indicated by this discussion. It is considered that it will be clear from the remainder of the specification that the invention is intended to supply toys which may be easily manufactured at a comparatively nominal cost, which may be packaged without significant difficulty at a comparatively nominal cost, which may be shipped and stored at reasonable costs because of their comparatively compact size when they are shipped and stored, and which may be easily and conveniently placed in the desired operative configuration by releasing or removing them from packages used with them. In accordance with this invention those aspects pertaining to the toy per se are achieved by providing in a three dimensional toy having an outer cover and an interior filling which in a usual, three dimensional configuration supports and holds said cover in a normal1 three dimensional configuration, said cover completely enclosing said filling the improvement which comprises said cover being flexible and being capable of being collapsed from said normal configuration to a collapsed configuration which encloses less volume than is enclosed by said cover when said cover is in said normal configuration, said filling being a resilient, compressible filling capable ot being collapsed from its usual configuration to a compact configuration which fits within said cover when said cover is in said collapsed configuration, and said filling being capable of being retained by pressure in said compact configuration, and upon the release of pressureholding said filling in said compact contiguration, being capable of automatically expanding to its usual configuration and being capable of moving said cover from said collapsed configuration to said normal configuration as it expands. Those aspects or this invention which pertain to a package are achieved by providing the combination of a toy constructed as indicated in the preceding paragraph in conjunction with a container applying physical force to the toy to prevent expansion ot the cover and the filling of the toy. Those aspects of the invention pertaining to a process are achieved by providing a process which includes the steps of packaging a toy in a container as indicated in the preceding sentence, transporting the composite package and then opening it so as to allow the toy to automatically expand to the desired use configuration.BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS Because of the nature ot this invention it is considered that it is best more fully explained with reference to the accompanying drawings in which Fig. 1 is an isometric drawing showing a container or package in combination with a toy of the present invention Fig. 2 is a comparatively small view showing a toy such as could be packaged in the container shown inFig. 1 in an expanded, ready to use, configuration Fig. 3 is a partial cross sectional view at an enlarged scale taken at line 3 3 of Fig. 2 Fig. 4 is a view similar to Fig. 3 of a modified toy in accordance with this invention Fig. 5 is a view corresponding to Fig. 3 of a further modified toy of this invention Fig. 6 is a view corresponding to Fig. 3 of a further modified toy in accordance with this invention Fig. 7 is a view corresponding to Fig. 3 of a still further modified toy in accordance with this invention Fig. 8 is a view corresponding to Fig. 1 ot a modified package in combination with a toy of this invention Fig. 9 is a partial cross sectional view taken at line 9 9 of Fig. 8 Fig. 10 is an isometric view or a modified package in combination with a toy of this invention Fig. 11 is a view corresponding to Fig. 10 showing the toy in an expanded configuration which it assumes upon the opening of the package as shown in the figure The various figures ot the drawing are not intended to designate any precise toy or package drawn to any precise scale.This is because these various figures have been prepared in an effort to facilitate an explanation of the present invention without regard to the specific size or configuration of any toy or package. It will be apparent from the drawing and from the remainder of this document that toys in accordance with this invention as used can have substantially the same shape or configuration as various known, related three dimensional toys and may be or nearly any size desired for commercial purposes. Because the specific size, shape and or configuration of a toy or package in accordance with this invention will vary depending upon various specific commercial applications it is not considered reasonable to indicate that any specific toy or package is preferred for all purposes. It is considered that the preferred shape of any toy or package is essentially a matter of individual judgment or desire. Nevertheless, it is believed that a package as shown in Fig 1 will be preferred in those cases where a toy is to be placed in an ultimate configtration by a retailer prior to sale because it does not employ any sort of a printed card or a package while the other various combinations of toys and packages shown in Figs.8 through 12 will be more desirable than the package shown in Fig. 1 in those instances where the package is seen by the ultimate consumer. Because of the fact that both toys in accordance with this invention and the packages used with such toys may be varied as indicated in the preceding discussion and because of the fact that both these toys and these packages can be modified through the use of what is considered to be routine engineering skill in the toy industry the accompanying drawings are not intended so as to limit the invention in any way. The invention is to be considered to be limited solely to the appended claims defining the essentially intangible concepts or principles of the invention. As noted these concepts or principles can be utilized in many different ways through the use or exercise of routine skill in the field of the design and construction or toys.DETAILED DESCRIPTION In Fig. 1 of the drawings there is snown a package 10 in accordance with this invention which includes two sheets 12 of a laminated polymer film which are heat sealed together at the periphery 14 in such a manner so as to enclose a three dimensional toy 16 in accordance with this invention. As will be apparent from Figs. 2 and 3 this toy 16 includes a cover 18 and a filling or core 20 which completely fills tne interior of the cover 18 and is completely surrounded by the cover 18 when the cover 18 and when the filling 20 are both in their usual three dimensional configuration, also as shown in Fig.2. This cover 18 is of such a character as to be capable of being collapsed from its usual configuration as shown in Fig. 2 by the application of pressure to a collapsed configuration as is illustrated in Fig. 1.Further, the filling or core 20 is a flexible core which is capable of being collapsed from its usual configuration to its compact configuration. When the cover 18 and the filling 20 are in the configuration as indicated in Fig. 1 the filling 20 is complt u I surrounded by the cover 18 and preferably fits closely or tightly within the interior ot this cover 18. With the package 10 the space 22 between the sheets 12 generally containing the toy 16 will normally be evacuated to as great an extent as possible. Because of this it can be stated that the package contains a vacuum. With this type of construction ambient air will exert force upon the package 10 which will prevent the filling 20 from expanding trom its compact configuration to its usual configuration. For this package 10 to be effective as described the sheets 12 must be flexible, impervious to normal ambient gases, and must be capable of being sealed together. The package 10 may be formed out of quite a number of different materials. Normally, it will be formed so that the sheets 12 are laminates of two or more thermoplastic materials. The sheets 12 may contain a nylon layer laminated to a polyethylene or polyvinylidine chloride coating or a nylon barrier positioned between polyethylene films in a laminated structure. Polyester films can be used. If desired any such sheet can be metalized. Further, if desired, any such sheet can be printed in accordance with conventional techniques. This will not normally be preferred because of the manner in which a thermoplastic sheet or film will wrinkle up when used as a wall of a package having an evacuated interior. Normally the cover 18 will be a conventional permeable woven or knitted cloth cover ot either natural or synthetic fibers or a blend of both. If a toy 16 is a plush toy the fabric used will usually be a conventional fabric having an exterior nap. It is considered that usually it will be prererable to form any cloth cover 18 used of a knit, jersey type permeable fabric since such a fabric will flex and give so as to accommodate expansion ot the core 20 as a toy 16 is removed from a package such as the package 10 so as to fit the core 20 in accordance with the ultimate three dimensional configuration of the core 20 more satisfactorily than if the cover 18 could not stretch and give to at least a limited degree.It is believed that a fabric cover 18 will usually be preferable since the surface of a fabric will tend to hold against movement relative to an irregular exterior not separately numbered of a core 20. On occasion it may be desirable to form the cover 18 so that it is slightly elastic. This expedient can be used to minimize the cover 18 from shifting or sliding along the core 20 when the toy 16 is expanded so that it can be used. A wide variety of different materials can be utilized in forming the core 20. Any such core should be composed of a resilient, compressible material.Normally the core 20 will be composed of a thermoplastic material which exhibits a comparatively good memory.The material used in the core 20 should be of such a character that it will substantially recover its original shape and configuration after being within a package such as the package 10 which has been stored for a reasonable time period of at least six months under what may be considered to be normal ambient conditions. As a practical matter the core 20 should be capable of being stored for a prolonged period as noted and at a temperature of from about 200C to about 500C while subjected to normal ambient pressure without taking any significant internal set tending to preclude it from reverting to its original, usual configuration. As a result of this it is considered obvious that the core 20 should be formed of a material which will not creep to any significant extent when held under pressure for a prolonged period at a temperature within the range specified. In the toy 16 the core 20 is composed of a mass 22 of resilient fibers 24 which are bent or curved to various extents along their lengths. Such fibers 24 are sometimes referred to as synthetic pulp fibers although, in general, this term is used to designate fibers which may or may not be so small as not to be effective in a toy of the present invention. Particularly acceptable results can be achieved using synthetic fibers as are commonly used in pillows, sleeping bags and the like. Generally speaking, the fibers 24 should be sufficiently long and sufficiently bent so that they will fluff up or expand after having been compressed so as to create a structure having a comparatively low specific gravity. Such a comparatively low specific gravity is desired because it means that a toy such as the toy 16 will be desirably light in weight per unit of volume. This is quite important since both shipping weight and the size of the ultimate toy 16 are both quite important with the present invention. If desired, various individual fibers 24 as noted may be secured or bonded to one another where they overlap so as to form a unitary batt. Such a structure 20 and 24 is not separately illustrated since this sectional view of such a structure will look substantially identical to Fig 3. This is because ot the extremely small amount of resin or adhesive which would be used to bond the fibers to one another.Particularly suitable results of the present invention can be achieved utilizing polymer fiber batts such as are, on occasion, used as insulation in sleeping bags, comforters, and the like. In Figs. 4 to 11 there are shown various toys and packages as subsequently identified which are based on the toy 16 and the package 10 described in the preceding. In the interest of brevity the parts of the toys shown in Figs. 4 through 11 which are the same as or which directly correspond to the toy 16 are designated by the same numerals previously used even though for reference purposes certain of these toys are designated by different numbers. With the present invention it is not necessary to utilize fibers such as the fibers 24. As illustrated inFig. 4 of the drawing satisfactory results can be obtained by forming the core 20 of a toy 26 capable or being substituted for the toy 16 utilizing a plurality of discrete small chunks or lumps 28 of a resilient, compressible polymer foam material instead of the tibers 24. Particularly satisfactory results can be achieved of recovered polyurethane foam scrap from the manufacture of mattresses, pillows or the like.Normally, the irregular surfaces of such chunks 28 will prevent them from significantly shifting with respect to one another on the cover 18 in a final toy. If desired, such chunks 28 may be secured to one another utilizing a conventional adhesive which bonds such chunks where they overlap one another. No separate drawing is shown illustrating this since the resulting chunks will look substantially identical to the structure sndwn in Fig. 4 In Fig. 5 of the drawing there is shown a further modified toy 30 capable of being substituted for the toy 16 in which the core 20 consists of a unitary integral lump or body 32 of an open celled resilient, compressible polymer material such as a common urethane foam as is used in pillows, mattresses and the like.This body 32 needs to be an open celled structure so as to permit air to flow in and out or it as the core 20 is either compressed to a compact configuration or is allowed to expand from its compact configuration back to its usual configuration. This ability of tne material in the chunks to accommodate air movement is not as important in the structure shown in Fig. 4 where individual chunks are used as with a unitary body 30 as shown in Fig. 5 because of the fact that air will normally be able to move between the individual chunks even when these chunks 26 have been bonded together. Fig. 6 shows another manner ot modifying the toy 16. The toy 34 shown in Fig. 6 is identical to the toy 16 but differs from the toy 16 by utilizing a cover 18 which is of a flexible air tight character. Such a cover 18 can be easily manufactured utilizing various types of fabric impregnated with and or laminated to various different known types of rubber. This cover 18 includes a conventional valve 36 which can be manipulated so as to remove air from with the cover 18 and which will automatically permit air to enter the interior of the cover 18 upon the core 20 expanding upon the release of pressure on the cover 18 after the toy 34 has collapsed. When the toy 34 is removed from a package such as the package 10 normally the expansion of the core 20 will be such as to cause air to be automatically drawn in through the valve 36. However, if this amount of air is not adequate to inflate the toy to the desired extent a conventional pump such as used to inflate a basketball and the like may be employed so as to inject further air into the cover 18 through this valve 36. In the interest of completeness it should be noted that if the valve 36 in the toy 34 is either covered by a small impervious disk not shown which is temporarily secured to the cover 18 by a known pressure sensitive adhesive after the air within the cover 18 is exhausted it is not necessary to use a separate package 10 with the toy 34. Upon the disk being removed from this type of structure air will be drawn into the toy 34 as previously employed. Substantially the same type of action can be obtained by merely substituting an orifice for the valve 36. This is not preferred since when the valve 36 is omitted the interior ot the toy 34 not separately shown cannot be pressurized. In Fig. 7 of the drawing there is a toy 38 whicn is similar to the toys 16 and 34 but which differs from the toy 34 by omitting the valve 36 and substituting for it a small pellet 40 of compressed particles of a conventional compound capable of releasing gas in response to either a moderate temperature or radio frequency energy. The toy 38 will normally be manufactured by forming it with a small hole not shown in the cover 18 and then sealing this hole after air has been removed from its interior while force is applied so as to collapse it. In its collapsed condition the toy 38 will not automatically expand and can be shipped and stored without being packaged. Any gas releasing composition which is temperature responsive should be of such a character that it will not release gas in a normal ambient temperature range as indicated in the preceding but will release gas at a temperature below the temperature at which any physical or chemical change will occur in the core 20 or the cover 18 used. Suitable gas releasing compositions are commonly used as blowing agents in the manufacture of porous plastic articles. The toy 36 is considered to be especially adapted for use by retailers who may wish to expand the toy 36 into its final configuration prior to the toy being displayed and sold. In Figs. 8 and 9 of the drawing there is shown a package 42 reasonably corresponding to the package 10 used to contain a toy such as the toy 16 or any of the other toys except the toy 38 indicated in the preceding discussion. This package 40 differs from the package 10 by including two flat bowed sheets 44 of cardboard. In all other respects the package 42 is identical to the package 10. Preferably these sheets 44 are joined together along their side edges 46 so as to form essentially a flattened tube not separately numbered inside the sheets 14 containing the toy 16 in a compacted configuration. Since these sheets 14 may be easily printed to contain advertising and other material it is considered that this package 42 is particularly adaptable for use in those circumstances where a retailer will stock and sell a toy as herein described in a compact configuration. In Figs. 10 and 11 there is snown a further package 46 which is also especially desirable for use in those cases where a toy such as the toy 16 or any of the other toys noted except the toy 38 is sold in a compacted condition. This package 46 includes an impervious bottom thermoplastic tray having a peripheral top flange 50. This flange 50 is sealed to the periphery 52 of an impervious cover 54 enclosing the interior of the tray 48 and a toy 16 located within it in a collapsed configuration. This cover 54 is provided with lines 56 of a reduced cross sectional thickness defining or outlining a tear strip 58. Preferably this tear strip 58 is also provided with an integrally formed or attached handle 60 which is capable of being engaged so as to remove the tear strip 58 in order to open the cover 54. When this occurs the toy 16 packaged within the package 46 will be exposed to the ambient air. This will allow it to expand automatically as the cover 54 is opened through the removal of the tear strip 58. This package 46 is especially desirable because adverHlXlngu and other printed material may be directly placed upon the cover 54. When this type of construction is used preferably the tray 48 should be somewhat more flexible than the cover 54 so that the presence of the vacuum within the interior of the package 46 will not cause the cover 54 to wrinkle.