# DIGITIZER FOR A COMPUTER

## Claims
Analog Digital Umsetzer mit einer Spule 7 zur Erzeugung eines Magnetfeldes für die Anzeige einer Koordinatenposition in Abhängigkeit von einem Erregersignal, einem Substrat 1 mit einer Vielzahl von Leitern X

## Description
This invention relates to digitizers, for example, serving as input devices of digital apparatus such as computers, and more particularly to electromagnetic induction type digitizers using phase inversion detection. Digitizers are disclosed in U.S. Patent Specifications Nos. 4,368,351 and 4,206,314. A conventional digitizer shown in Figure 4 has a tablet 1 serving as a write in plate or substrate for determining the position of a winding coil 7. The tablet 1 carries X conductive lines and Y conductive lines. Conductive lines X The X scanning circuit 102 and the Y scanning circuit 103 are analogue switching circuits which select one of the X conductive lines and one of the Y conductive lines respectively in response to a conductive line select address signal As shown in Figure 4, a bit signal The following description will be made without distinguishing X coordinate from Y coordinate since the process for solving the value of the X coordinate is the same as that for the Y coordinate. A bit signal The winding coil 7 is energized by an energizing signal Moreover, a lower bit signal The signal processing circuit 110 is connected to the scanning circuit which receives the induction signal Although a detailed explanation will be given later, a load signal A coordinate register 8 is loaded with a count signal Next, the operation of the conventional digitizer of Figure 4 will be described with reference to Figures 5 to 8 and particularly by the timing diagram of Figure 7. The conductive line select address signal Comparing the energizing signal As shown in Figure 8, this is because the direction of the induction current is inverted since the rotational direction of the magnetic field produced by current I flowing in the winding coil 7, to the right of the centre O of the winding coil is opposite to that to the left of the centre O of the winding coil. In Figure 8, the centre O of the winding coil is on one conductive line S The phase detector 12 has two input terminals, and it outputs a positive polarity signal when one input signal is the same polarity as the other, whereas it outputs a negative polarity signal when one input signal is opposite to the other in polarity. The phase detector of U.S. Patent Specification No. 4,368,351 is embodied by an analogue multiplier shown in Figure 5 and the phase detector of U.S. Patent Specification No. 4,206,314 is embodied by a sample hold circuit shown in Figure 6. The timing diagram of Figure 7 corresponds to the case where the phase detector is the analogue multiplier of Figure 5 in which the induction signal A phase detection signal This digitizer adopts a coordinate detection principle in which the induction signal induced on the conductive line at one side of the winding coil is opposite in phase to that of the other side of the winding coil. In accordance with this principle, when the conductive lines are selected in turn, the phase of the induction signal is determined and the conductive line on which phase inversion occurs is detected whereby it may be found that the winding coil is disposed between a pair of conductive lines. This principle is used to detect not only a conductive line adjacent to the winding coil but also to determine the detailed position of the winding coil between adjacent conductive lines. As shown in Figure 7, signals The comparator 14 which receives the envelope signal From the above principle, the coordinate of the winding coil is determined by measuring the time taken from a count starting point A which is a scan starting point, coordinate O point to a point B where the load signal In the example of Figure 7, the space between two conductive lines is divided into four by the count signal As mentioned above, this digitizer needs to extract a signal component containing the phase relationship of the induction signal, induced on the conduction lines, relative to the winding coil. To realise this, the conventional digitizer uses an analogue multiplication or sample hold circuit. However, these circuits are relatively complicated and expensive so that it is impossible for such digitisers to be manufactured at low cost. Digitisers using phase inversion detection make it possible to realise a small size circuit construction but it is desirable to omit or simplify the phase detector since the resulting signal process circuit comprising the amplification circuit, filter and comparator can then be constructed with common circuits. The present invention seeks to provide a digitiser omitting a phase detector by employing a scanning circuit having a gate function which is turned ON OFF with a gate signal in synchronism with an energising signal for the winding coil. According to the present invention there is provided a digitiser comprising a winding coil for generating a magnetic field to indicate co ordinate position in response to an energising signal a substrate having a plurality of conductive lines detection means for detecting phase inversion of an induction signal induced on said conductive lines counting means for measuring the time interval between a starting time of selecting one of said conductive lines and a detecting time when phase inversion occurs a scanning circuit for selecting said conductive lines in turn and co ordinate storing means for holding a coordinate value characterised in that said scanning circuit is arranged to receive a gate signal from said counting means at an input terminal with the same frequency as, and in synchronism with said energising signal and includes circuit means for selecting one of said conductive lines only when said gate signal is high corresponding to the detection of half a period of the inductive signal on each conductive line. Preferably the analog switch means are connected to said circuit means. Said detecting means may comprise an amplification circuit for amplifying said induction signal, a low pass filter for producing an envelope signal and a comparator for producing a load signal. In the preferred embodiment said circuit means is a decoder. The invention is illustrated, merely by way of example, in the accompanying drawings, in which Throughout the drawings like parts have been designated by the same reference numerals. Figure 1 is a block diagram of one embodiment of a digitizer according to the present invention. The digitizer of Figure 1 is different from the conventional digitizer in that a signal process circuit 10, an X scanning circuit 2 and a Y scanning circuit 3 are of different construction, but the remaining circuitry may be substantially the same as in the conventional digitizer. As shown in Figure 2A, the X scanning circuit 2 and the Y scanning circuit 3 are switch circuits composed of a decoder 15 and analogue switches 16. A conductive line select address signal The decoder 15 is shown in greater detail in Figure 2B and has a signal line G for receiving the gate signal When the conductive line select address signal is applied to the signal lines A₁ A₃, one of a plurality of output gates OG₁ OG₈ is selected. At this time, if the gate signal The analogue switch select signal is not produced when the gate signal is not applied to the gate signal line G, even if the conductive line select address signal is applied to the conductive line select address signal lines A₁ A₃. This decoder 15 is embodied by using TTLIC SN74LSI138. The concept of this decoder may be applied to a decoder having a number of conductive line select address signals and a number of analogue switches, although it has been described with reference to Figures 2A and 2B for selecting one of 8 analogue switch select signal lines. As described above, an additional circuit is not required by using the gate input terminal of the decoder IC, although the gate signal line is set newly in the X scanning circuit and the Y scanning circuit in this embodiment of the present invention. The gate signal The scanning circuit constructed as above is connected to the input terminal of the signal process circuit 10 and selects one of the conductive lines with the conductive line select address signal only while the gate signal is present. The signal process circuit 10 omits the phase detector of the conventional digitizer but comprises the amplification circuit 11, a low pass filter 13 and a comparator 14 as conventional. The signal process circuit receives an induction signal Next, the operation of the digitizer of Figure 1 will be described with reference to Figure 3. As shown in Figure 3, the scanning circuit receives the conductive line select address signal The induction signal In the prior art, the phase detection signal was formed by full wave rectification of the induction signal of Figure 7 whereas the induction signal The induction signal The digitizer described above according to the present invention makes possible the omission of the phase detector from the conventional digitizer since its scanning circuits perform the gate function of the phase detector conventionally employed. Consequently manufacture of a digitizer with a simpler circuit construction becomes possible.