# Production of injection molded polypropylene articles.

## Abstract
A polypropylene injection molded article is obtained from a crystalline propylene polymer composition containing a polymer of a vinylcycloalkane having 6 or more carbon atoms in an amount of from 0.05 wt ppm to 10,000 wt ppm calculated as vinylcycloalkane units. The article exhibits excellent transpa rency and high crystallinity.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A polypropylene injection molded article obtained from a crystalline propylene polymer composition, characterised in that the composition contains a polymer of a vinylcycloalkane having 6 or more carbon atoms in an amount of from 0.05 wt ppm to 10,000 wt ppm calculated as vinylcycloalkane units. 2. An article as claimed in claim 1, wherein the amount of the polymer of the vinylcycloalkane is from 0.5 wt ppm to 5,000 wt ppm calculated as vinylcycloalkane units. 3. An article as claimed in claim 2, wherein the amount of the polymer of the vinylcycloalkane is from 0.5 wt ppm to 1,000 wt ppm calculated as vinylcycloalkane units. 4. An articles as claimed in any preceding claim, wherein said vinylcycloalkane has 8 or more carbon atoms. 5. An article as claimed in claim 1, wherein the polymer of a vinylcycloalkane is a block copolymer of a vinylcycloalkane and an a olefin. 6. A crystalline propylene polymer composition as defined in any preceding claim.

## Description
POLYPROPYLENE INJECTION MOLDED ARTICLES This invention relates to polypropylene injection molded articles having high crystallinity. Crystalline propylene polymers are excellent synthetic resins having high stiffness and high mechanical strength but have a relatively low rate of crystallization. It has been pointed out that the low crystallinity of polypropylene molded articles causes drawbacks in some fields of application, such as insufficient stiffness or heat resistance and poor transparency due to formation of relatively large spherulities. Several attempts have been made to improve crystallinity and transparency of propylene polymers.For example, it is known that aluminum salts or sodium salts of aromatic carboxylic acids Japanese PatentApplication OPI No. 80329 83, the term OPI as herein used means unexamined published application or aromatic carboxylic acids, metal salts of aromatic phosphoric acids or sorbitol derivatives Japanese PatentPublication No. 12460 80 and Japanese Patent Application OPI No. 129036 83 , when added, act as nucleating agents for crystals to thereby improve stiffness and transparency. Of these nucleating agents, aluminum p t butylbenzoate which is commonly employed has a considerable effect in improving stiffness but a small effect in improving transparency. Further, sorbitol derivatives, though excellent in improving transparency, give off an offensive smell after molding and are, therefore, limited in their application. As a result of extensive investigations to overcome the above described problems, it has now been found that injection molded articles having high stiffness and excellent transparency can be obtained from a crystalline propylene polymer containing a vinylcycloalkane polymer. According to the present invention there is provided a polypropylene injection molded article obtained from a crystalline propylene polymer composition containing a polymer of a vinylcycloalkane having 6 or more carbon atoms in an amount of from 0.05 wt ppm to 10,000 wt ppm calculated as vinylcycloalkane units. The propylene polymer composition which can be used in the present invention can be prepared by 1 blending a vinylcycloalkane polymer and a crystalline propylene polymer or 2 copolymerizing a vinylcycloalkane having 6 or more carbon atoms and propylene or propylene and an a olef in having from 2 to 18 carbon atoms except for propylene. The crystalline propylene polymers which can be used in this invention include not only a propylene homopolymer but random or block copolymers of propylene and other a olefins having from 2 to 18 carbon atoms. The vinylcycloalkane polymers which can be used in this invention include not only a vinylcycloalkane homopolymer but random copolymers of the vinylcycloalkane and a small proportion of other vinylcycloalkanes or a olef ins and block copolymers of the vinylcycloalkane and a olefins.The vinylcycloalkane block copolymers are copolymers obtained by multi stage copolymerization of the vinylcycloalkane and various o olefins, such as 1 a copolymer obtained by polymerizing the vinylcycloalkane in a first stage and homopolymerizing propylene in a second stage 2 a copolymer obtained by polymerizing the vinylcycloalkane in a first stage and random copolymerizing propylene and other a olefins in a second stage and 3 a copolymer obtained by homopolymerizing propylene in a first stage, polymerizing the vinylcycloalkane in a second stage, and again homopolymerizing propylene or random copolymerizing propylene and other a olefins in a third stage In the polymerization of the vinylcycloalkane for the preparation of these block copolymers, the vinylcycloalkane may be copolymerized with a small proportion of other. vinylcycloalkanes or a olefins. Among these vinylcycloalkanes polymers, the preferred are the block copolymers, and the more preferred are the block copolymers with propylene as described in l to 3 above. The vinylcycloalkane having 6 or more carbon atoms which can be used in the present invention include vinylcyclobutane, vinylcyclopentane, vinyl 3 methylcyclopentane, vinylcyclohexane, vinyl 2 methylcyclohexane, vinyl 3 methylcyclohexane and vinylnorbornane, with those having 8 or more carbon atoms being preferred. In order to obtain appreciable beneficial effects without altering the physical properties inherent in the crystalline propylene polymer, the content of the vinylcycloalkane unit in the crystalline propylene polymer composition should be from 0.05 wt ppm to 10,000 wt ppm, preferably from 0.5 wt ppm to 5,000 wt ppm, and more preferably from 0.5 wt ppm to 1,000 wt ppm. The content of the a olefin unit in the composition is appropriately selected according to the application of the resulting injection molded article and preferably is from 0 to 40 by weight based on the composition. The crystalline propylene polymer composition to be used for injection molding according to the present invention preferably has a melt flow rate JIS K6758 of from 0.5 to 150, and more preferably from 1 to 100. The vinylcycloalkane polymer, crystalline propylene polymer, and vinylcycloalkane a olef in propylene copolymer to be used in this invention can be suitably prepared in the presence of a catalyst system composed of a titanium compound and an organoaluminum compound. The titanium compounds include titanium trichloride catalysts sold by Toyo Stauffer Co., Ltd., Toho Titanium Co., Ltd.,Marubeni Solvay Co., Ltd., etc. In addition, titanium compounds carried on magnesium compounds as described inJapanese Patent Application OPI Nos. 59916 82 and 133408 80, etc. can also be used to advantage.The oregano aluminum compounds preferably include alkylaluminum compounds represented by the formula AlXaR3 a wherein X represents a hydrogen atom, a halogen atom, or an alkoxy group R represents an alkyl group having from 1 to 18 carbon atoms and a represents 0 or more but smaller than 3. Specific examples of such alkylaluminum compounds are Al CH3 3, A1 C2H5 3, Al C2H5 2Clt Al C2H5 2Br, Al C2H5 2 OC2H5 , Al C2H5 2 OC4H9 , Al C2H5 OC4H9 2,Al C2H5 Cl2, Al C4H9 3, Al C4H9 2Cl, Al C6E13 3 Al C6Hl3 2C1, and mixtures thereof.For the purpose of improving stereoregularity of the crystalline propylene polymer and the vinylcycloalkane polymers, polymerization may be performed in the presence of an electron donor, e.g., carboxylic esters, phosphoric esters and cinnamic esters. Blending of the crystalline propylene polymer and the vinylcycloalkane polymer can be carried out by blending methods employed for blending of general a olefin polymers. In some detail, powders and or granular pellets of both polymers are mixed in a Henschel mixer, etc. and melt kneading the blend in a Brabender, a roll, a Banbury mixer, a granulator, etc. The crystalline propylene polymer composition which can be used in the present invention can contain, if desired, a wide variety of additives usually compounded into propylene polymers, such as heat stabilizers, light stabilizers, antistatic agents, anti oxidants, carbon black, pigments and flame se tardants Further, the polymer composition may be blended with other polymers such as low density polyethylene, high density polyethylene, polybutene, EP ethylene propylene copolymer and rubber, and fillers such as mica and talc. The crystalline propylene polymer composition of the present invention can be suitably molded in an injection molding machine commonly employed for propylene polymer compositions under conditions of a mold temperature of from 10 to 100 C and an injection pressure of from 300 to 1,500 kg cm2, with at least one point of the cylinder temperature of the injection molding machine falling within a range of from 160 to 3500C. This invention is now illustrated in greater detail with reference to the following Examples, but it should be understood that they are not intended to limit the present invention. In these Examples, physical properties, such as melt flow rate, haze, gloss, ri 1, and crystallization temperature were determined as follows 1 Melt Flow Rate MFR Measured in accordance with JIS K6758. 2 Intrinsic Viscosity Measured in tetralin at 135 C by the use of aUbbelohde s viscometer. 3 Crystallization Temperature Measured by the use of a differential scanning calorimeter DSC at a temperature decrease rate of 40C min. 4 Haze A polymer composition was molded in an in line screw type injection machine manufactured by SumitomoHeavy Industries Co., Ltd. Neomat 350 120 into a disc of 1 mm in thickness and 220 mm in diameter. A test piece cut from the disc was measured for haze in accordance withASTM D1003. 5 Gloss Measured on a test piece as prepared above in accordance with ASTM D532 53T. 6 Flexural Modulus A test piece having a size of 127 mm in length, 12.7 mm in width, and 6.4 mm in thickness was prepared by the use of the same injection molding machine as used in 4 above and measured in accordance with JIS R6758. 7 Izod Impact Strength A test piece having a size of 64 mm in length, 12.7 mm in width, and 6.4 mm in thickness was prepared by the use of the same injection molding machine as used in 4 above and measured in accordance with JIS K6758. s Tensile Strength A dumbbell specimen of 3.2 mm in thickness according to ASTM D638 67T I Type was prepared by the use of the same injection mqLding madhine as used in 4 above and measured in accordance with JIS K6758. 9 Vicat Softening Point VSP A plate having a size of 40 mm in length, 40 mm in width, and 3.2 mm in thickness was prepared by the use of the same injection molding machine as used in 4 above. Measurement was conducted on a test piece cut from the plate in accordance with JIS K7206. EXAMPLE 1 1 Synthesis of Vinylcyclohexane Polymer To 500 ml of dehydrated and purified n heptane were successively added 7.5 mmol of diethylaluminum chloride and 50.9 g of a titanium trichloride catalyst produced by Marubeni Solvay Co., Ltd., and the mixture was heated to 600C, followed by polymerization for 90. minutes while adding dropwise 70 ml of vinylcyclohexane thereto.After completion of the polymerization, the polymer slurs was washed twice each with 500 ml of n heptane and dried under reduced pressure to obtain 100 g of a titanium trichloride catalyst containing a vinylcyclohexane homopolymer in an amount of 0.96 g per gram. In a 300 liter volume autoclave were charged 49.5 g of the above prepared vinylcyclohexane homopolymercontaining catalyst, 1.5 mol of diethylaluminum chloride, and 150 of n heptane, and propylene and ethylene were random copolymerized in the autoclave at 500C under a pressure of 6 kg cm2G for 5 hours. After completion of the polymerization, any unreacted gases were purged, and 30 Q of n butanol was added thereto for deashing. The product was then centrifuged and dried to obtain 36.4 kg of a vinylcyclohexane polymer. This vinylcyclohexane polymer contained 670 wt ppm of a vinylchclohexane unit and 1.5 wt of an ethylene unit and had an intrinsic viscosity ri of 2.0 dl g. 2 Production of Injection Molded Article Fifty parts by weight, hereinafter the same of the vinylcyclohexane polymer obtained in 1 above, 50 parts of an ethylene propylene random copolymer containing 4.5 wt of an ethylene unit and having an MFR of 4.5, 0.05 part of calcium stearate, and 0.05 part of tetrakis methylene 3 3 ,5 di t butyl 4 hydroxyphenyl propionate methane were mixed in a Henschel mixer and then granulated in a 40 mmX granulator. The resulting pellets were injection molded, and a test piece was measured for haze. The results obtained are shown in Table 1. EXAMPLE 2 Injection molding was carried out in the same manner as described in Example 1 2 except using 10 parts of the vinylcyclohexane polymer and 90 parts of an ethylene propylene random copolymer containing 3.1 wt of an ehtylene unit. The haze of the molded article was measured, and the results are shown in Table 1. COMPARATIVE EXAMPLE 1 Injection molding was carried out in the same manner as described in Example 1 2 except using no vinylcyclohexane polymer and 100 parts of an ethylene propylene copolymer having an ethylene unit of 3.1 wt . The haze of the mdlded article was measured, and the results are shown in Table 1. COMPARATIVE EXAMPLE 2 Injection molding was carried out in the same manner as described in Example 1 2 except replacing the vinylcyclohexane polymer with 0.2 part of 1,3,2,4di benzylidine sorbitol produced by New Japan ChemicalCo., Ltd. and 100 parts of an ethylene propylene copolymer containing an ethylene unit of 3.1 wt . The haze of the molded article was measured, and the results are shown inTable 1. TABLE 1 Example No. Haze Example 1 10 Example 2 14 Comparative Example 1 37 Comparative Example 2 18 As is shown in Table 1, the injection molded articles according to the present invention exhibit excellent transparency. EXAMPLES 3 AND 4 AND COMPARATIVE EXAMPLE 3 1 Synthesis of Vinylcyclohexane Polymer Vinylcyclohexane was homopolymerized in a first stage and then propylene was homopolymerized in a second stage in the same manner as described in Example 1 1 to obtain 30.1 kg of a vinylcyclohexane polymer containing 1.2 wtZ of a vinylcyclohexane unit and having an n of 2.1 dl g. 2 Production of Injection Molded Article To 100 parts of a propylene ethylene block copolymer containing an ethylene unit of 7.3 wt and a melt index of 16 g 10 min were added 0.1 part Example 3 or 0.7 part Example 4 of the above prepared vinylcyclohexane polymer and, as additives, 0.05 part of calcium stearate and 0.05 part of tetrakis methylene 3 3 ,5 di t butyl 4 hydroxyphenyl propionate methane. The mixture was mixed in a Henschel mixer and then granulated in a 40 mm granulator. For comparison, a polymer composition was prepared in the same manner as above except that the vinylcyclohexane polymer was not added ComparativeExample 3 . Each of these polymer compositions was injection molded and determined for various physical properties.The results obtained are shown in Table 2 below. TABLE 2Izod Impact Strength Tensile StrengthFlexuralExample No. MFR 23 C 20 C VSP YS US UE GlossModulus g 10 min kg.cm cmê kg.cm cmê C kg cmê kg cmê kg cmê Example 3 16 6.2 3.7 82 14,300 255 209 85 56Example 4 15 6.6 3.8 84 14,400 265 204 109 55Comparative 16 6.6 3.6 80 13,100 256 185 184 53Example 3 It can be seen from the results of Table 2 that the injection molded articles according to the present invention possess well balanced physical properties as compared with the conventional injection molded articles.