# Inorganic fiber reinforced plastic composite material.

## Abstract
An inorganic fiber reinforced plastic composite material comprises a plastics matrix and from 10 to 70 by volume of the composite material of inorganic fibers as a reinforcing material, said inorganic fibers containing silicon, either titanium or zirconium, carbon and oxygen and being composed of 1 an amorphous material consisting substantially of Si, M, C and O, in which M represents Ti or Zr 2 an aggregate consisting substantially of ultrafine crystalline particles of beta SiC, MC, a solid solution of beta SiC and MC and MC1 x having a particle diameter of not more than 400 ANGSTROM , and amorphous SiO2 and MO2, in which M is as defined above and x is a number represented by 0 x 1 or 3 mixture of the amorphous material 1 and the aggregate 2 .

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. An inorganic fiber reinforced plastic composite material comprising a plastics matrix and from 10 to 70 by volume of the composite material of inorganic fibers as a reinforcing material, said inorganic fibers containing silicon, either titanium or zirconium, carbon and oxygen and being composed of 1 an amorphous material consisting substantially of Si, M, C and 0, in which M represents Ti or Zr 2 an aggregate consisting substantially of ultrafine crystalline particles of beta SiC, MC, a solid solution of beta SiC and MC and MC1 x having a particle diameter of not more than 400 A, and amorphous SiO2 and MO2, in which M is as defined above and x is a number represented by 0 x l or 3 a mixture of the amorphous material 1 and the aggregate 2 . 2. A composite material according to claim 1 wherein the plastics matrix is an epoxy resin, modified epoxy resin, polyester resin, polyimide resin, phenolic resin, polyurethane resin, polyamide resin, polycarbonate resin, silicone resin, phenoxy resin, polyphenylene sulfide, fluorine resin, hydrocarbon resin, halogen containing resin, acrylic resin or acrylonitrile butadiene styrene resin. 3. A composite material according to claim 1 or 2 wherein the inorganic fibers have an elemental composition consisting of 30 to 60 by weight of Si, 0.5 to 35 by weight of Ti or Zr, 25 to 40 by weight of C and 0.01 to 30 by weight of O. 4. Shaped articles composed of a composite material as claimed in any one of the preceding claims.

## Description
INORGANIC FIBER REINFORCED PLASTIC COMPOSITE MATERIAL This invention relates to an inorganic fiber reinforced plastic composite material having excellent mechanical properties composed of a plastic matrix and inorganic fibers composed mainly of silicon, either titanium or zirconium, carbon and oxygen. Surface treated carbon fibers have widely been used as reinforcing fibers for plastics such as epoxy resins, modified epoxy resins, polyester resins and poly imide resins. For this purpose, the carbon fibers require surface treatment because of their poor wetting property with the resins. Plastic composite materials obtained by reinforcing such plastics with the surface treated carbon fibers have an interlayer shear strength of about 8 kg mm2 at the highest and a tensile strength, in a direction perpendicular to the fibers, of about 4.5 kg mm2. This means that the strength of bonding between the fibers and the resin is weak, and the fibers are liable to drop off from the resin. Accordingly, after long term use, the fibers will be exfoliated from the resin.Furthermore, since the flexural impact value of the composite materials is low, the composite materials may undergo breakage by instantaneous impact. Japanese Laid Open Patent Publication No. 14687 1977 discloses that silicon carbide fibers obtained by spinning an organosilicon polymer called polycarbo silane, rendering the resulting fibers infusible, and then firing the fibers can be used as a reinforcing material without surface treatment. Even when these silicon carbide fibers are used, the resulting composite material has an interlayer shear strength of about 8.7 kg mmê although having a tensile strength and a flexural strength, in a direction perpendicular to the fibers, of about 6.5 kg mmê and about 9 kg mmê, respectively, which are higher than in the case of using the carbon fibers as a reinforcing material. For the foregoing reasons, the strength of bonding between the resin and the fibers is still insufficient, and on long term use, the resin and the fibers are liable to separate from each other. Such composite materials are therefore limited in utility. It is an object of this invention to solve the aforesaid problems, and provide a composite material having excellent mechanical properties. Another object of this invention is to provide a composite material having excellent bond strength between a resin as a matrix and inorganic fibers as a reinforcing material. Still another object of this invention is to provide a composite material in which the matrix has good compatibility with the inorganic fibers, and the efficiency of reinforcement by the inorganic fibers is high. Yet another object of this invention is to provide a composite material whose fatigue strength decreases only to a small extent. A further object of this invention is to provide a composite material which is suitable for mass production. An additional object of this invention is to provide an inorganic fiber reinforced plastic composite material having an interlayer shear strength of at least about 10 kg mm2, a tensile strength, in a direction perpendicular to the fibers, of at least about 7 kg mm2, a flexural strength, in a direction perpendicular to the fibers, of at least about 10 kg mm2, and a flexural impact value of at least 200 kg cm cm2. According to this invention, there is provided an inorganic fiber reinforced plastic composite material comprising a plastic as a matrix and inorganic fibers as a reinforcing material, said inorganic fibers containing silicon, either titanium or zirconium, carbon and oxygen and being composed of 1 an amorphous material consisting substan tially of Si, M, C and 0, or 2 an aggregate consisting substantially of ultrafine crystalline particles of beta SiC, MC, a solid solution of beta SiC and MC and MCl,x having a particle diameter of not more than 500 i, and amorphous SiO2 and NO2, in which M repre sents Ti or Zr, and x is a number represented by 0 x l, or 3 a mixture of the amorphous material 1 and the aggregate 2 , the amount of the inorganic fibers being 10 to 70 by volume of the composite material. The inorganic fiber reinforced plastic composite material of this invention is characterized by having a an interlayer shear strength of at least 10 kg mm2, b a tensile strength, in a direction perpendicular to the fibers, of at least 7 kg 2, c a flexural strength, in a direction perpendicular to the fibers, of at least 10 kg mm2, and d a flexural impact value of at least 200 kg cm cm2. The inorganic fibers used in this invention are described in European Patents Nos. 30145 and 37209. These inorganic fibers composed substantially of Si, Ti, C and 0, or Si, Zr, C and 0 can be produced by a process which comprises a first step of mixing 1 a polycarbosilane having a number average molecular weight of about 500 to 10,000 and containing a main chain skeleton composed mainly of structural units of the formula Si CH2t wherein the silicon atom substantially has two side chain groups selected from the class con sisting of hydogen atoms, lower alkyl groups and phenyl groups, and 2 a polymetallosiloxane having a number average molecular weight of about 500 to 10,000 and containing a main chain skeleton composed of metalloxane bond units M O wherein M represents titanium or zirconium and siloxane bond units Si O , the ratio of the total number of the metalloxane bond units to that of the siloxane bond units being from 30 1 to 1 30, most of the silicon atoms in the siloxane bond units having 1 or 2 side chain groups selected from the group consisting of lower alkyl and phenyl groups, and most of the metal atoms in the metalloxane bond units having 1 or 2 lower alkoxy groups as a side chain group, in such proportions that the ratio of the total number of the structural units fSi CH2t of the polycarbosilane to the total number of the tN Ot bond units and the Si O bond units is from 100 1 to 1 100, and heating the mixture in an organic solvent in an atmosphere inert to the reaction to bond at least some of the silicon atoms of the polycarbosilane to at least some of the silicon atoms and or metal atoms of the polymetallosiloxane through oxygen atoms and to form an organic metallic polymer having a number average molecular weight of about 1,000 to 50,000 and composed of a crosslinked polycarbosilane portion and polymetallosiloxane portion a second step of preparing a spinning dope of the polymer and spinning the dope a third step of rendering the spun fibers infusible under tension or under no tension and a fourth step of calcining the infusible fibers at a temperature of 800 to 18000C in vacuum or in an inert gaseous atmosphere. Alternatively, the inorganic fibers consisting substantially of Si, Ti, C and 0 or of Si, Zr, C and 0 can be produced by a process which comprises a first step of mixing a polycarbosilane having a number average molecular weight of 200 to 10,000 and mainly containing a main chain skeleton represented by the general formulaEMI5.1 wherein R represents a hydrogen atom, a lower alkyl group or a phenyl group, and an organic metal compound represented by the general formula MX4 wherein M represents Ti or Zr and X represents an alkoxy group containing 1 to 20 carbon toms, a phenoxy group, or an acetylacetoxy group, in such mixing ratios that the ratio of the total number of the structural units RSi CH2t to the total number of the structural units SM Ot of the organic metal compound is in the range of from 2 1 to 200 1, and reacting the mixture under heat in an atmosphere inert to the reaction to bond at least some of the silicon atoms of the polycarbosilane to the metal atoms of the organic metal compound through oxygen atoms and form an organic metallic polymer having a number average molecular weighttof about 700 to 100,000 a second step of preparing a spinning dope of the organic metallic polymer and spinning it a third step of rendering the spun fibers insoluble under tension or under no tension and a fourth step of calcining the infusible fibers at a temperature of 800 to 1800 C in an atmosphere of an inert gas. The inorganic fibers contain 30 to 60 by weight of Si, 0.5 to 35 by weight, preferably 1 to 109 by weight, of Ti or Zr, 25 to 40 by weight of C, and 0.01 to 30 by weight of O in terms of elemental composition. The inorganic fibers may be used in various forms, for example in the form of a blend of these fibers arranged monoaxially or multiaxially, a fabric of the plain, satin, imitation gauze, twill or leno weave, a helically woven fabric, a three dimensionally woven fabric, or chopped fibers. Examples of the plastic that can be used as a matrix in this invention include epoxy resins, modified epoxy resins, polyester resins, phenolic resins, polyimide resins, polyurethane resins, polyamide resins, polycarbonate resins, silicone resins, fluorine resins, polyphenylene sulfide, polybutylene terephthalate, ultrahigh molecularweight polyethylene, polypropylene, modified polyphenylene oxide, polystyrene, ABS resin and vinyl chloride resins. The plastic composite material of this invention may be produced by ordinary methods of producing fiberreinforced plastic composite materials, such as 1 the hand layup metod, 2 the matched metal die method, 3 the break away method, 4 the filament winding method, 5 the hot press method, 6 the autoclave method, and 7 the continuous pulling method. 1 According to the hand lay up method, the composite material can be produced by cutting the inorganic fibers, laying them up on a mold, coating the plastic containing a catalyst on the laid inorganic fibers by means of a brush or roller, allowing it to cure spontaneously, and then removing the mold. 2 According to the matched metal die method, the composite material can be produced by impregnating the inorganic fibers with a mixture of the plastic, a curing agent, a filler and a thickening agent, and molding the impregnated fibers under heat and pressure. Depending upon the form of the material during molding, either a sheet molding compound method or a bulk molding compound method can be selected. 3 According to the break away method, the composite material can be produced by impregnating a sheet of the inorganic fibers with the plastics, pre curing the impregnated sheet to form a prepreg, winding the prepreg about a tapered mandrel, curing the prepreg and pulling out the cured sheet from the spindle. A hollow article having a complex configuration is produced by this method. 4 According to the filament winding method, the composite material can be produced by impregnating the inorganic fibers with a thermosetting resin such as an epoxy resin or an unsaturated polyester resin, winding the impregnated inorganic fibers about a mandrel, curing the resin, and then removing the mold. As required, either a wet method or a dry method using a prepreg tape can be selected. 5 According to the hot press method, a composite material in the form of a plate can be produced by stacking prepreg sheets in one direction or at any desired angle, and compressing the stacked assembly under heat and pressure. 6 According to the autoclave method, the composite material can be produced by stacking prepregs in a mold, enveloping them with a special rubber, placing the enveloped material in a high pressure kettle under vacuum, and heating it under pressure to effect curing. This method is suitable for forming articles of a complex shape. 7 According to the continuous pulling method, a long strip of composite material can be produced by separately feeding the inorganic fibers and the plastics into a molding machine, mixing them just in front of the mold, and passing the molded mixture through a heating furnace. The tensile strength a of the composite material produced from the inorganic fibers and the plastic matrix is defined by the following equation. c dfVf MVM wherein a c the tensile strength of the composite material, the the tensile strength of the inorganic fibers, the tensile strength of the plastic matrix, N Vf the volume percent of the inorganic fibers, the the volume percent of the plastic matrix. As shown by the above equation, the strength of the composite material increases with increasing volume percent of the inorganic fibers in the composite material.Hence, to produce a composite material having high strength, it is necessary to increase the volume percent of the inorganic fibers. If, however, the volume percent of the inorganic fibes exceeds 70 , the amount of the plastic matrix is small and the interstices among the fibers cannot be fully filled with the plastic matrix. The resulting composite material cannot have the strength specified in this invention. If, on the other hand, the number of the fibers is decreased, the hardness of the composite material represented by the tensile strength is reduced as indicated by the above equation, and to produce a practical composite material, at least 10 of the inorganic fibers must be combined. Accordingly, in the production of the inorganic fiber reinforced plastic composite material of this invention, best results can be obtained when the volume proportion of the inorganic fibers to be combined is adjusted to 10 to 70 , preferably to 30 to 60 . Since the plastic composite material of this invention has excellent mechanical properties, it can be applied to uses for which conventional plastic composite materials cannot be used. The mechanical properties of the composite material of this invention vary depending upon the type of the plastic forming the matrix, and are, for example, as shown in the following table.EMI9.1 tb Plastic SEP consti SEP Interlayer SEP Tensile SEP strength tb tuting SEP the SEP shear SEP strength SEP in SEP a SEP direction tb matrix SEP kg mm SEP SEP perpendicular SEP to tb SEP the SEP fibers tb SEP kg mm SEP tb Epoxy SEP resin SEP at SEP least SEP 10 SEP at SEP least SEP 7 tb Modified SEP epoxy SEP at SEP least SEP 14 SEP at SEP least SEP 10 tb resin tb Unsaturated SEP at SEP least SEP 10 SEP at SEP least SEP 7 tb polyester SEP resin tb Polyimide SEP resin SEP at SEP least SEP 10 SEP at SEP least SEP 7 tb Plastic SEP consti SEP Flexural SEP strength SEP Flexural tb tuting SEP the SEP in SEP a SEP direction SEP impact SEP value tb matrix SEP perpendicular SEP to SEP kg cm cm tb SEP the SEP fibers tb SEP RTI ID 9.1 kg mm SEP tb Epoxy SEP resin SEP at SEP least SEP 10 SEP at SEP least SEP 200 tb Modified SEP epoxy SEP at SEP least SEP 13 SEP at SEP least SEP 250 tb resin tb Unsaturated SEP at SEP least SEP 10 SEP at SEP least SEP 200 tb polyester SEP resin tb Polyimide SEP resin SEP at SEP least SEP 10 SEP at SEP least SEP 200 tb The various mechanical properties of the composite material of this invention are measured by the following methods. a Interlayer shear strength A composite material sample having inorganic fibers 100x12x2 mm oriented monoaxially was placed on two pins each having a length of 20 mm and a radius of curvature of 6 mm, and compressed by a presser having a radius of curvature of 3.5 mmR at its end by the so called three point bending method. The interlayer shear stress kg mm2 is measured and defined as the interlayer shear strength. b Tensile strength and tensile modulus in a direc tion perpendicular to the fibers A fiber reinforced composite material having a thickness of 2 mm in which the fibers were aligned monoaxially was produced. A test piece 19 x 127 mm was taken from it so that the axial direction of the test piece crossed the direction of the fiber alignment at right angles. The thickness of the test piece was 2 mm. A curvature of 125 mmR was provided in the central part in the thickness direction and the central part was finished in a thickness of about 1 mm. The tensile test was carried out at a stretching speed of 1 mm min. The tensile strength was expressed in kg mm2, and the tensile modulus, in tons mm2 . c Flexural strength and flexural modulus in a direction perpendicular to the fibers A fiber reinforced composite material having a thickness of 2 mm in which the fibers were aligned monoaxially was produced. A test piece 12.7x85 mm was taken from it so that the axial direction of the test piece crossed the direction of the fiber alignment at right angles. The thickness of the test piece was 2 mm. A curvature of 125 mmR was provided in the central part in the thickness direction and the central part was finished in a thickness of about 1 mm. The test piece was subjected to the 3 point bending method. The flexural strength was expressed in kg mm2, and the flexural modulus, in tons mm2. The interlayer shear strength, the tensile strength in a direction perpendicular to the fibers and the flexural strength in a direction perpendicular to the fibers are measures of the strength of bonding between the matrix and the fibers d Tensile strength and tensile modulus A fiber reinforced composite material having a thickness of 2 mm in which the fibers were aligned monoaxially was produced. A test piece 12.7x230 mm was taken from it so that the axial direction of the test piece is the same as the direction of the fiber alignment. The thickness of the test piece was 2 mm. A curvature of 125 mmR was provided in the central part in the thickness direction and the central part was finished in a thickness of about 1 mm. The tensile test was carried out at a stretching speed of 1 mm min.The tensile strength was expressed in kg mm2, and the tensile modulus, in tons mm2 e Flexural strength and flexural modulus A fiber reinforced composite material having a thickness of 2 mm in which the fibers were aligned monoaxially was produced. A test piece 12.7x85 mm was taken from it so that the axial direction of the test piece is the same as the direction of the fiber alignment. The thickness of the test piece was 2 mm. A curvature of 125 mmR was provided in the central part in the thickness direction and the central part was finished in a thickness of about 1 mm. The test piece was subjected to the 3 point bending method. The flexural strength was expressed in kg mm2, and the flexural modulus, in tons mm2. f Flexural impact value The flexural impact value was measured by theCharpy testing method JIS K 7111 by three point bending. The flexural impact value is a measure of the strength of bonding between the plastics and the fibers, particularly the strength of resistance to instantaneous impact. If the flexural impact value is low, the fibers and the resin are liable to separate from each other and the composite material is liable to break by instantaneous impact. Since the inorganic fibers used in the composite material of this invention has excellent wettability with the plastic, it is not particularly necessary to treat the surface of the inorganic fibers. Furthermore, since the strength of bonding between the inorganic fibers and the plastic is excellent, the present invention provides a composite material having excellent interlayer shear strength, tensile strength and flexural strength in a direction perpendicular to the fibers, and flexural impact value. The inorganic fibers used in this invention has an excellent reinforcing efficiency in plastic composite materials, and the resulting reinforced plastic composite materials have various excellent mechanical properties, and can withstand use over a long period of time. Hence, they can be applied to fields for which conventional plastic composite materials cannot be used.For example, these composite materials find applications in fields which require excellent mechanical properties, for example as materials for synthetic fibers, materials for synthetic chemistry, materials for machine industry, materials for construction machinery, materials for marine and space exploitation, materials for automobiles, materials for use in relation to foods, electrical materials, sporting goods, and materials for acoustic appliances and instruments. REFERENTIAL EXAMPLE Silicon carbide fibers obtained only from polycarbosilane as used in Comparative Examples were produced as follows. Polyborosiloxane 3 parts by weight was added to 100 parts by weight of polydimethylsilane synthesized by dechlorinating and condensing dimethyldichlorosilane with metallic sodium, and the mixture was subjected to condensation at 350 0C in nitrogen to obtain polycarbosilane having a main chain skeleton composed mainly of carbosilane units of the formula Si CH2t in which the silicon atoms had hydrogen atoms and methyl groups. The polymer was melt spun. The resulting fibers were rendered infusible in air at 190 0C, and subsequently calcined at 13000C in nitrogen to give silicon carbide fibers composed mainly of silicon, carbon and oxygen and having a fiber diameter of 13 microns, a tensile strength of 300 kg mm2 and a tensile modulus of 16 tons mm2.Examples The following examples illustrate the present invention.Production of inorganic fibers I Titanium alkoxide was added to polycarbosilane produced by adding 3 parts by weight of polyborosiloxane to 100 parts by weight of polydimethylsilane synthesized by dechlorinating and condensing dimethyldichlorosilane with metallic sodium and subjection the mixture to condensation at 350 C in nitrogen and having a main chain skeleton composed mainly of carbosilane units of the formula Si CH2 in which the silicon atoms had hydrogen atoms and methyl groups. The mixture was crosslinked and polymerized at 340 C in nitrogen to obtain polytitanocarbosilane composed of 100 parts of carbosilane units and 10 parts of titanoxane units of the formula Ti O . The polymer was melt spun.The resulting fibers were rendered infusible at 190 0C in air, and subsequently calcined at 13000C in nitrogen to give inorganic fibers I containing mainly silicon, titanium 3 by weight , carbon and oxygen and having a fiber diameter of 13 microns, a tensile strength of 310 kg mm2 and a tensile modulus of 16 tons mm2. The resulting fibers were a mixture of an amorphous material composed of Si, Ti, C and 0, ultrafine crystalline particles having a particle diameter of about 50 i of beta SiC,TiC, a solid solution of beta SiC and TiC and TiCl x O x l , and amorphous SiO2 and TiO2. Production of inorganic fibers 11 Tetrakisacetylacetonato zirconium was added to the polycarbosilane obtained as above, and the mixture was crosslinked and polymerized at 350 0C in nitrogen to give polyzirconocarbosilane composed of 100 parts of carbosilane units and 30 parts of zirconoxane units of the formula Zr O . The polymer was dissolved in benzene, and the solution was dry spun. The fibers were rendered infusible at 170 0C in air, and subsequently calcined at 12000C in nitrogen to give amorphous inorganic fibers II containing mainly silicon, zirconium 4.5 by weight , carbon and oxygen and having a fiber diameter of 10 microns, a tensile strength of 350 kg mm2 and a tensile modulus of 18 tons mm2. EXAMPLE 1 The inorganic fibers I without surface treatment were aligned monoaxially in sheet form, and impregnated with a commercial bisphenol A type epoxy resin. The epoxy resin was pre cured to obtain prepreg sheets having a thickness of 0.15 mm. The prepregs were stacked, and hot pressed at 1700 C and 7 kg cm2 for 4 hours to produce an inorganic fiber reinforced epoxy composite material having a thickness of 2 mm and composed mainly of silicon, titanium, carbon and oxygen. The composite material contained 60 by volume of the fibers.The mechanical properties of the resulting composite material were as follows Tensile strength kg mmê 190 Tensile modulus tons mm2 16 Flexural strength kg mm2 221 Flexural modulus tons mm2 15 Tensile strength kg mm2 in the perpendicular direction 10.3 Tensile modulus tons mmê in the perpendicular direction 2.3 Flexural strength kg mm2 in the perpendicular direction 12.4 Flexural modulus tons mm2 in the perpendicular direction 2.2 Interlayer shear strength kg mm2 12.5 Flexural impact value kg cm cm2 280 COMPARATIVE EXAMPLE 1 A silicon carbide fiber reinforced epoxy composite material was produced in the same way as in Example 1 except that the silicon carbide fibers obtained from only polycarbosilane synthesized in Referential Example were used instead of the inorganic fibers I .The composite material contained 60 by volume of the fibers and had the following mechanical properties. Tensile strength kg mmê 160 Tensile modulus tons mmê 14 Flexural strength kg mmê 218 Flexural modulus tons mm2 13.5 Tensile strength kg mm2 in the perpendicular direction 6.5 Tensile modulus tons mm2 in the perpendicular direction 1.7 Flexural strength kg mm2 in the perpendicular direction 9.1 Flexural modulus tons mm2 in the perpendicular direction 1.7 Interlayer shear strength kg mm2 8.7 Flexural impact value kg cm cm2 260 COMPARATIVE EXAMPLE 2 A carbon fiber reinforced epoxy composite material was produced in the same way as in Example 1 except that surface treated high tenacity polyacrylonitrile type carbon fibers were used instead of the inorganic fibers I . The composite material contained 60 by volume of the fibers and had the following mechanical properties. Tensile strength kg mm2 172 Tensile modulus tons mm2 14 Flexural strength kg mmê 170 Flexural modulus tons mmê 13 Tensile strength kg mmê in the perpendicular direction 4.5 Tensile modulus tons mm2 in the perpendicular direction 0.88 Flexural strength kg mmê in the perpendicular direction 6.2 Flexural modulus tons mm2 in the perpendicular direction 0.87 Interlayer shear strength kg mm2 8.1 Flexural impact value kg cm cm2 150 The mechanical properties of the epoxy composite materials obtained in Example 1 and Comparative Examples 1 and 2 are summarized in Table 1. It is seen from Table I that the inorganic fiber reinforced composite materials of this invention are better than the other reinforced composite materials. Table 1 EMI17.1 SEP Properties SEP Example SEP 1 SEP Comparative SEP Comparative tb invention SEP Example SEP 1 SEP Example SEP 2 tb silicon SEP carbon tb carbide SEP fibers tb fibers tb Tensile SEP strength SEP kg mmê SEP in SEP 10.3 SEP 6.5 SEP 4.5 tb the SEP perpendicular SEP direction tb Tensile SEP modulus SEP tons mmê SEP in SEP 2.3 SEP 1.7 SEP 0.88 tb the SEP perpendicular SEP directio tb Flexural SEP strength SEP kg mmê SEP in SEP 12.4 SEP 9.1 SEP 6.2 tb the SEP perpendicular SEP direction tb Flexural SEP modulus SEP tons mmê SEP in SEP 2.2 SEP 1.7 SEP 0.87 tb the SEP perpendicular SEP direction tb Interlayer SEP shear SEP strength SEP kg mmê SEP 12.5 SEP 8.7 SEP 8.1 tb Flexural SEP impact SEP value SEP kg cm cmê SEP 280 SEP 260 SEP 150 tb EXAMPLE 2 The inorganic fibers I without surface treatment were aligned monoaxially in sheet form, and impregnated with a commercial phenol novolak type modified epoxy resin. The epoxy resin was pre cured to obtain prepreg sheets having a thickness of 0.15 mm. The prepregs were stacked, and hot pressed at 170 C and 7 kg cmê for 4 hours to produce an inorganic fiber reinforced epoxy composite material having a thickness of 2 mm and composed mainly of silicon, titanium, carbon and oxygen. The composite material contained 60 by volume of the fibers.The mechanical properties of the resulting composite material were as follows Tensile strength kg mmê 195 Tensile modulus tons mmê 16.3 Flexural strength kg mm2 236 Flexural modulus tons mmê 15.2 Tensile strength kg mmê in the perpendicular direction 13.2 Tensile modulus tons mm2 in the perpendicular direction 2.8 Flexural strength kg mmê in the perpendicular direction 15.6 Flexural modulus tons mm2 in the perpendicular direction 2.7 Interlayer shear strength kg mm2 17.3 Flexural impact value kg cm cm2 285 COMPARATIVE EXAMPLE 3 A silicon carbide fiber reinforced epoxy composite material was produced in the same way as in Example 2 except that the silicon carbide fibers obtained from only polycarbosilane synthesized used in Comparative Example 1 were used instead of the inorganic fibers I . The composite material contained 60 by volume of the fibers and had the following mechanical properties. Tensile strength kg mmê 165 Tensile modulus tons mm2 14.3 Flexural strength kg mm2 228 Flexural modulus tons mm2 13.6 Tensile strength kg mm2 in the perpendicular direction 9.7 Tensile modulus tons mmê in the perpendicular direction 2.3 Flexural strength kg mm2 in the perpendicular direction 12.0 Flexural modulus tons mm2 in the perpendicular direction 2.3 Interlayer shear strength kg mm2 13.7 Flexural impact value kg cm cm2 269 COMPARATIVE EXAMPLE 4 A carbon fiber reinforced epoxy composite material was produced in the same way as in Example 2 except that surface treated high tenacity polyacrylonitrile type carbon fibers used in Comparative Example 2 were used instead of the inorganic fibers I . The composite material contained 60 by volume of the fibers and had the following mechanical properties. Tensile strength kg mm2 178 Tensile modulus tons mmê 14.5 Flexural strength kg mmê 190 Flexural modulus tons mmê 13.3 Tensile strength kg mmê in the perpendicular direction 7.1 Tensile modulus tons mm2 in the perpendicular direction 1.4 Flexural strength kg mm2 in the perpendicular direction 9.3 Flexural modulus tons mm2 in the perpendicular direction 1.3 Interlayer shear strength kg mm2 13.2 Flexural impact value kg cm cm2 160 The mechanical properties of the epoxy composite materials obtained in Example 2 and Comparative Examples 3 and 4 are summarized in Table 2. It is seen from Table 2 that the inorganic fiber reinforced composite materials of this invention are better than the other reinforced composite materials. Table 2 EMI20.1 SEP Properties SEP Example SEP 2 SEP Comparative SEP Comparative tb invention SEP Example SEP 3 SEP Example SEP 4 tb silicon SEP carbon tb carbide SEP fibers tb fibers tb Tensile SEP strength SEP kg mmê SEP in SEP 13.2 SEP 9.7 SEP 7.1 tb the SEP perpendicular SEP direction tb Tensile SEP modulus SEP tons mmê SEP in SEP 2.8 SEP 2.3 SEP 1.4 tb the SEP perpendicular SEP direction tb Flexural SEP strength SEP kg mmê SEP in SEP 15.6 SEP 12.0 SEP 9.3 tb the SEP perpendicular SEP direction tb Flexural SEP modulus SEP tons mmê SEP in SEP 2.7 SEP 2.3 SEP 1.3 tb the SEP perpendicular SEP direction tb Interlayer SEP shear SEP strength SEP kg mmê SEP 17.3 SEP 13.7 SEP 13.2 tb Flexural SEP impact SEP value SEP kg cm cmê SEP 285 SEP 269 SEP 160 tb EXAMPLE 3 The inorganic fibers II were aligned monoaxially in sheet form and impregnated with the same epoxy resin as used in Example 1. The epoxy resin was pre cured to obtain prepreg sheets. The prepregs were stacked, and then compressed under heat and pressure in an autoclave to produce an inorganic fiber reinforced epoxy composite material. The composite material obtained contained 58 by volume of the fibers and had the following mechanical properties. Tensile strength kg mm2 206 Tensile modulus tons mm2 18 Flexural strength kg mm2 239 Flexural modulus tons mm2 16.8 Tensile strength kg mm2 in the perpendicular direction 10.8 Tensile modulus tons mm2 in the perpendicular direction 2.5 Flexural strength kg mm2 in the perpendicular direction 12.7 Flexural modulus tons mmê in the perpendicular direction 2.3 Interlayer shear strength kg mmê 13.2 Flexural impact value kg cm cm2 290 EXAMPLE 4 An inorganic fiber reinforced epoxy composite material was produced in the same way as in Example 1 except that the inorganic fibers I were not aligned in sheet form but were woven into a fabric of plain weave 6 warps and 6 wefts per cm one yarn consisting of 500 fibers . The resulting composite material contained 62 by weight of the fibers, and had the following mechanical properties. Tensile strength kg mm2 103 Tensile modulus tons mm2 10.3 Flexural strength kg mm2 119 Flexural modulus tons mm2 10.1 Interlayer shear strength kg mm2 12.9 Flexural impact value kg cm cm2 275 EXAMPLE 5 The inorganic fibers I without surface treatment were aligned monoaxially in sheet form and impregnated with a commercial unsaturated polyester resin. The polyester resin was pre cured to obtain prepreg sheets having a thickness of 0.15 mm. The prepregs were stacked, and hot pressed at 17OOC and 7 kg cm2 for 4 hours to produce an inorganic fiber reinforced polyester composite material having a thickness of 2 mm. The composite material contained 58 by volume of the fibers, and had the following mechanical properties. Tensile strength kg mm2 185 Tensile modulus tons mm2 r 15.6 Flexural strength kg mm2 213 Flexural modulus tons mm2 14.7 Tensile strength kg mm2 in the perpendicular direction 10.2 Tensile modulus tons mm2 in the perpendicular direction 2.2 Flexural strength kg mm2 in the perpendicular direction 12.1 Flexural modulus tons ms2 in the perpendicular direction 2.1 Interlayer shear strength kg mm2 12.3 Flexural impact value kg cm cm2 268 COMPARATIVE EXAMPLE 5 A silicon carbide fiber reinforced polyester composite material was produced in the same way as inExample 5 except that the silicon carbide fibers obtained only from polycarbosilane prepared in Referential Example were used instead of the inorganic fibers I . The composite material contained 58 by weight of the fibers and had the following mechanical properties. Tensile strength kg mm2 153 Tensile modulus tons mm2 13.9 Flexural strength kg mmê 203 Flexural modulus tons mm2 12.9 Tensile strength kg mm2 in the perpendicular direction 6.1 Tensile modulus tons mmê in the perpendicular direction 1.3 Flexural strength kg mm2 in the perpendicular direction 8.8 Flexural modulus tons mm2 in the perpendicular direction 1.5 Interlayer shear strength kg mm2 8.6 Flexural impact value kg cm cm2 256 COMPARATIVE EXAMPLE 6 A carbon fiber reinforced composite material was produced in the same way as in Example 5 except that the surface treated carbon fibers used in Comparative Example 2 were used instead of the inorganic fibers I used in this invention. The composite material contained 58 by volume of the fibers and had the following mechanical properties. Tensile strength kg mm2 170 Tensile modulus tons mm2 13.8 Flexural strength kg mm2 166 Flexural modulus tons mm2 12.2 Tensile strength kg mm2 in the perpendicular direction 4.5 Tensile modulus tons mm2 in the perpendicular direction 0.7 Flexural strength kg mm2 in the perpendicular direction 5.9 Flexural modulus tons mm2 in the perpendicular direction 0.8 Interlayer shear strength kg mm2 8.0 Flexural impact value kg cm cm2 140 The mechanical properties of the polyester composite materials obtained in Example 5 and ComparativeExamples 5 and 6 are summarized in Table 3. It is seen from Table 3 that the inorganic fiber reinforced composite materials of this invention are better than the other reinforced composite materials. Table 3 EMI24.1 SEP Properties SEP Example SEP 5 SEP Comparative SEP Comparative tb invention SEP Example SEP 5 SEP Example SEP 6 tb silicon SEP carbon tb carbide SEP fibers tb fibers tb Tensile SEP strength SEP kg mmê SEP in SEP 10.2 SEP 6.1 SEP 4.5 tb the SEP perpendicular SEP direction tb Tensile SEP modulus SEP tons mmê SEP in SEP 2.2 SEP 1.3 SEP 0.7 tb the SEP perpendicular SEP direction tb Flexural SEP strength SEP kg mmê SEP in SEP 12.1 SEP 8.8 SEP 5.9 tb the SEP perpendicular SEP direction tb Flexural SEP modulus SEP tons mmê SEP in SEP 2.1 SEP 1.5 SEP 0.8 tb the SEP perpendicular SEP direction tb Interlayer SEP shear SEP strength SEP kg mmê SEP 12.3 SEP 8.6 SEP 8.0 tb Flexural SEP impact SEP value SEP kg cm cmê SEP 268 SEP 256 SEP 140 tb EXAMPLE 6 The inorganic fibers I without surface treatment were aligned monoaxially in sheet form, and impregnated with a polyimide resin produced by Ube Industries,Ltd. . The polyimide resin was pre cured to form prepreg sheets having a thickness of 0.15 mm. The prepregs were stacked and hot pressed at 170 0C and 7 kg cm2 for 4 hours to produce an inorganic fiber reinforced polyimide composite material having a thickness of 2 mm. The composite material contained 60 by volume of the fibers, and had the following mechanical properties. Tensile strength kg mm2 195 Tensile modulus tons mm2 16.1 Flexural strength kg mm2 215 Flexural modulus tons mm2 14.7 Tensile strength kg mm2 in the perpendicular direction 10.3 Tensile modulus tons mmê in the perpendicular direction 2.2 Flexural strength kg mmê in the perpendicular direction 12.3 Flexural modulus tons mmê in the perpendicular direction 2.1 Interlayer shear strength kg mm2 12.6 Flexural impact value kg cm cm2 270 COMPARATIVE EXAMPLE 7 A silicon carbide reinforced polyimide composite material was produced in the same way as Example 6 except that the silicon carbide fibers obtained only from the polycarbosilane used in Comparative Example 1 were used instead of the inorganic fibers I .The resulting composite material contained 60 by volume of the fibers and had the following mechanical properties. Tensile strength kg mmê 153 Tensile modulus tons mmê 13.7 Flexural strength kg mmê 202 Flexural modulus tons mmê 13.1 Tensile strength kg mmê in the perpendicular direction 6.2 Tensile modulus tons mm2 in the perpendicular direction 1.5 Flexural strength kg mmê in the perpendicular direction 9.0 Flexural modulus tons mm2 in the perpendicular direction 1.7 Interlayer shear strength kg mm2 8.6 Flexural impact value kg cm cm2 255 COMPARATIVE EXAMPLE 8 A carbon fiber reinforced polyimide composite material was produced in the same way as in Example 6 except that the surface treated carbon fibers used inComparative Example 2 were used instead of the inorganic fibers I . The resulting composite material contained 60 by volume of the fibers and had the following mechanical properties. Tensile strength kg mm2 173 Tensile modulus tons i 2 14 Flexural strength kg mm2 168 Flexural modulus tons mm2 13.1 Tensile strength kg mm2 in the perpendicular direction 4.5 Tensile modulus tons mm2 in the perpendicular direction 0.9 Flexural strength kg mm2 in the perpendicular direction 6.0 Flexural modulus tons mm2 in the perpendicular direction 0.9 Interlayer shear strength kg mm2 7.8 Flexural impact value kg cm cm2 143 The mechanical properties of the epoxy composite materials obtained in Example 8 and Comparative Examples 7 and 8 are summarized in Table 4. It is seen from Table 4 that the inorganic fiber reinforced composite materials of this invention are better than the other reinforced composite materials. Table 4 EMI27.1 SEP Properties SEP Example SEP 6 SEP Comparative SEP Comparative tb invention SEP Example SEP 7 SEP Example SEP 8 tb silicon SEP carbon tb carbide SEP fibers tb fibers tb Tensile SEP strength SEP kg mmê SEP in SEP 10.3 SEP 6.2 SEP 4.5 tb the SEP perpendicular SEP direction tb Tensile SEP modulus SEP tons mmê SEP in SEP 2.2 SEP 1.5 SEP 0.9 tb the SEP perpendicular SEP direction tb Flexural SEP strength SEP kg mmê SEP in SEP 12.3 SEP 9.0 SEP 6.0 tb the SEP perpendicular SEP direction tb Flexural SEP modulus SEP tons mmê SEP in SEP 2.1 SEP 1.7 SEP 0.9 tb the SEP perpendicular SEP direction tb Interlayer SEP shear SEP strength SEP kg mmê SEP 12.6 SEP 8.6 SEP 7.8 tb Flexural SEP impact SEP value SEP kg cm cmê SEP 270 SEP 255 SEP 143 tb EXAMPLE 7 The inorganic fibers II were aligned monoaxially in sheet form, and impregnated with the same polyimide resin as used in Example 6. The resin was pre cured to obtain prepreg sheets. The prepregs were stacked, and heated under pressure by an autoclave to produce an inorganic fiber reinforced polyamide composite material. The composite material contained 57 by volume of the fibers, and had the following mechanical properties. Tensile strength kg mm2 200 Tensile modulus tons mm2 17.2 Flexural strength kg mm2 218 Flexural modulus tons mm2 16.5 Tensile strength kg mm2 in the perpendicular direction 10.7 Tensile modulus tons mm2 in the perpendicular direction 2.4 Flexural strength kg mm2 in the perpendicular direction 12.6 Flexural modulus tons mm2 in the perpendicular direction 2.2 Interlayer shear strength kq mm2 13.1 Flexural impact value kg cm cm2 278 EXAMPLE 8 An inorganic fiber reinforced epoxy composite material was produced in the same way as in Example 1 except that instead of aligning the inorganic fibers I in sheet form, the inorganic fibers I were woven three dimensionally, and used as the reinforcing material. The resulting composite material contained 60 by volume of the fibers and had the following mechanical properties. TEnsile stfrength kg mm2 97 Tensile modulus S tons mmê 10.1 Flexural strength kg mmê 107 Flexural modulus tons atm2 9.5 Interlayer shear strength kg mm2 10.2 Flexural impact value kg cm2 270