# AQUEOUS SULFOMETHYLATED MELAMINE GEL FORMING COMPOSITIONS

## Claims
Wässerige gelbildende Zusammensetzung, die bei der Gewinnung von Kohlenwasserstoffen aus kohlenwasserstoffhaltigen unterirdischen Lagern verwendbar ist, umfassend eine 1,0 bis 60,0 gew. ige sulfomethylierte Melaminpolymerlösung, hergestellt durch Umsetzen der folgenden Komponenten A bis D in den angegebenen Molanteilen während 1 bis 10 Stunden bei 50 bis 95 C in einem wässerigen Medium

## Description
During the recovery of hydrocarbons from subterranean formations, significant amounts of displaceable hydrocarbons are left behind because the reservoir strata are non homogeneous. The natural drive fluids e.g. brine or gaseous hydrocarbons or secondary recovery flooding fluids e.g. brine, steam, or carbon dioxide flow through the more permeable strata of the reservoir resulting in progressively less hydrocarbon being recovered per unit volume of fluid produced. This increased ratio of drive or flooding fluid to hydrocarbon is usally referred to as early breakthrough of flooding fluid from injector wells or as excessive water encroachment in producer wells. It is desirable to increase the sweep efficiency, thereby producing more hydrocarbon per unit volume of fluid recovered. Chemicals have been used to achieve increased sweep efficiencies and to enhance hydrocarbon recovery by modifying the permeability of reservoir strata so that the natural or flooding fluids flow through hydrocarbon rich strata in preference to strata that are more permeable and contain none or smaller amounts of recoverable hydrocarbons. The chemicals that can be used to modify the permeabilities of subterranean reservoirs must be easily pumpable i.e. not excessively viscous so that they can be easily emplaced into the reservoir sufficiently far from the wellbore so as to be effective. It is desirable for the chemicals to reduce the permeability of the reservoir to the driving or flooding fluids while retaining most hydrocarbon permeability. Their emplacement should be selective in that they are emplaced into and reduce the permeability of reservoir strata more permeable to the driving fluids without seriously affecting the less permeable strata. Gels formed by polyacrylamide U.S. 3,490,533 or polysaccharides with cations U.S. 3,581,524 U.S. 3,908,760 U.S. 4,048,079 have been used as permeability modifiers for subterranean reservoirs. However, their application has been limited to subterranean reservoirs with ambient temperatures of less than about 70 C. Major difficulties encountered in using gel forming chemicals in high temperature reservoirs i.e. 70 C include Melamine resins have been employed for a number of uses including adhesives, laminating resins, molding compounds, coatings, textile finishes and paper treatment I. H. Updegraff et al, Kirk Othmer Encyclopedia of Chemical Technology, Vol. 2, pp. 440 469, 1982 . The subject of this invention, sulfomethylated melamine polymers, has also found a number of uses. U.S. 2,407,599 claims a process for preparing thermosetting resinous products containing sulfonate groups by reacting at pH 4 10 1 an aldehyde e.g. formaldehyde, b a water soluble salt of sulfurous acid, and c a member of the class consisting of carboamides, polyamino diazines and polyamino triazines e.g. melamine . The aldehyde is present in an amount between about 0.5 and 2.0 moles per reactive amino group and said salt in an amount between about 0.05 to about 0.4 mole of bisulfite per mole of aldehyde. This patent also claims compositions prepared by the claimed process. U.S. 2,562,866 claims a process for preparing melamine aldehyde sealing agents for porous formations penetrated by boreholes as well as compositions prepared by the process. These compositions are not water soluble and must be used as an aqueous suspension. A process for preparing a solid thermosetting resin useful as a textile finishing agent and a paperwet strength agent and compositions prepared by the process are claimed by U.S. 2,603,623. The process consists of reacting a water soluble preformed etherified melamine formaldehyde resin in an aqueous solution with an alkali metal salt of sulfurous acid sufficient to provide at least 0.1 mole of combined sulfur trioxide for each mole of melamine. Sulfomethylated melamine resins are claimed as water loss additives for drilling fluids in U.S. 2,730,497 with specific claims being for drilling fluid compositions. U.S. 2,730,516 claims a process for producing non thermosetting, permanently water soluble melamine formaldehyde resinous compositions modified with an alkali metal salt of sulfurous acid which are useful as replacements for natural hydrophilic hydrocolloids e.g. gelatin and agar . The mole ratios of reactants are 1.0 melamine, 1.75 6.0 formaldehyde and 0.75 2.0 of sulfurous acid salt. A range of pH of between about 1.5 and about 3.7 is necessary during the polymerization of the product, and the temperature range is 40 55 C. Compositions prepared by this process are also claimed. U.S. 4,473,119 claims a process for selectively plugging highly permeable zones in a subterranean formation by injecting a melamine formaldehyde solution via a well into the highly permeable zones. A solution of melamine and formaldehyde in a water soluble solvent e.g. alcohol is injected into an alkaline formation environment. The solution preferentially migrates into the highly permeable zones which contain substantial amounts of water. The solution reacts Thus, it can be seen that there is a need for brine compatible, high temperature stable and high temperature emplacable permeability modifiers for use in subterranean hydrocarbon bearing reservoirs that do not completely block the flow of hydrocarbons in the affected strata. The sulfomethylated melamine gel forming compositions of this invention are useful in the recovery of hydrocarbons from hydrocarbon bearing subterranean reservoirs. Treatment of the strata of a subterranean reservoir with one of the gel forming compositions of this invention allows one to selectively modify the strata of the reservoir so that the treated strata of the reservoir are more permeable to hydrocarbons than to flooding fluids such as brine. By careful selection of the gel forming composition one is able to modify the permeability of a wide variety of reservoirs under a variety of conditions. The useful range of emplacement temperatures for these gel forming compositions is from about 20 C to about 120 C however, the resultant gels are stable up to at least 200 C. Gels can be made in a variety of aqueous solutions ranging from fresh water to brines containing up to about 20 TDS. The gel forming compositions of this invention are prepared by reacting melamine or a substituted melamine, formaldehyde or a C₂ C₆ dialdehyde, and sodium sulfite in an aqueous medium for 1 10 hours at 50 95 C. A gel modifying agent is added to the reaction mixture in order to achieve certain desirable gel properties. Especially useful gel modifying agents are aromatic amines that are substituted with electron withdrawing substituents. Examples of such aromatic amines are p sulfanilic acid 4 aminobenzenesulfonic acid , p nitrcaniline, p aminobenzoic acid, 2,4 dinitroaniline, and 2 naphthylamine. Other gel modifying agents also are useful such as poly vinyl alcohol , poly acrylamide , ethylene glycol, glycerol, certain poly oxyalkylene amines, primary and secondary polyamines, and formaldoxime. Immediately prior to use a gelling agent is added to the gel forming composition in order to regulate the gel time. Another part of this invention is a method for the selective modification of the permeability of the strata of a subterranean reservoir by the use of these gel forming compositions. This modification is accomplished by introducing into a well in communication with the reservoir a gel forming composition as described above at a pH of 5 11, shutting in the well and allowing the composition to gel in the reservoir for 1 hour to 30 days. The method is useful for the treatment of reservoirs penetrated by injector wells as well as producer wells and for reservoirs undergoing all sorts of fluid flooding such as brine, steam and carbon dioxide flooding. The present invention comprises an aqueous gel forming composition, useful in the recovery of hydrocarbons from hydrocarbon bearing subterranean reservoirs, comprising a 1.0 60.0 weight percent sulfomethylated melamine polymer solution prepared by reacting for 1 10 hr at 50 95 C, in an aqueous medium, the following components A to D in the stated molar proportions The composition is preferred wherein all of R₁ through R₆ are hydrogen as well as wherein component B is formaldehyde. The composition is especially preferred wherein R₁ through R₆ are hydrogen, component B is formaldehyde and said gel modifying agent is sulfanilic acid. Also especially preferred is the composition wherein R₁ through R₆ are hydrogen, component B is formaldehyde, the gel modifying agent is sulfanilic acid and the gelling agent is sodium fluoroborate. These compositions have certain advantages over the currently available materials for the modification of the permeability of the strata of hydrocarbon bearing subterranean reservoirs. These compositions are stable at temperatures of up to at least 200 C. This is a clear advantage over other permeability modifiers such as poly acrylamide and xanthan gum and other carbohydrate derived polymers which are not stable at temperatures above 70 C because of the reasons discussed above. The useful range of emplacement temperatures for these sulfomethylated melamine gel forming compositions is from about 20 C to about 120 C with the upper part of the range of about 70 C to about 120 C being most useful. The sulfomethylated me amine gel forming compositions of this invention are also compatible with a wide variety of brines of varying salinities and hardness. Experiments have shown that these gel forming compositions are effective gelling agents in brines of up to about 20 TDS and hardness levels of up to about 5000 ppm total calcium and magnesium ion concentration. Poly acrylamides are especially well known as being compatible in brines of up to only about 3 TDS. A major advantage of these sulfomethylated melamine gel forming compositions is that their gel time can be easily manipulated by the use of the gelling agents e.g. sodium fluoroboate as seen in the examples. Those skilled in the art will know that it is very desirable to emplace permeability modifiers the desired distance away from the well bore so that the permeability of the strata of the reservoir is modified to the desired extent. If the gel time is too short, then the gel will not be properly emplaced the desired distance away from the well bore, and there is a possibility of plugging the face of the well bore. If the gel time is too long, then although the gel may be properly emplaced into the reservoir, the well, either a producer or an injector, may have to be shut in for an uneconomically long period of time. Careful experimentation using the reservoir conditions will be required in order to achieve the desired gel times. Preferred gelling agents are the alkali metal and ammonium salts of fluoroboric and persulfurous acids. Other water soluble acid generating agents useful as gelling agents for this invention are dimethyl maleate, dimethyl itaconate, triethyl citrate, or ethyl acetate, sodium persulfate, sodium hexametaphosphate, and mono , di and tribasic sodium phosphate. The gel modifying agents of this invention impart certain beneficial properties to the resultant gels. The use of the gel modifying agents allows one to obtain gels at much lower concentrations of the gel forming composition. This is especially true of the substituted aromatic amines such as p sulfanilic acid, p nitroaniline, p aminobenzoic acid, 2,4 dinitroaniline and 2 naphthylamine. For example as seen in Table 2 of the Experimental Section, the use of the gel modifying agent allows one to use up to one third as much gel forming composition and obtain a useful gel with good permeability reduction. This is an important consideration when an economic analysis of the cost of performing a profile modification is done and substantial savings can be achieved by using a less costly composition. When gelled, these compositions selectively modify the strata of the subterranean reservoir so that the flow of the drive or flooding fluids is altered throughout all of the treated strata of the reservoir. In addition, the porous medium containing the gelled compositions also has the very desirable property of being more permeable to oil than to water, an important advantage when the flooding fluid is brine or fresh water and large amounts of flooding fluid are co produced with hydrocarbons in a hydrocarbon bearing reservoir. The sulfomethylated melamine gel forming compositions of this invention also have good high pressure resistance as compared to xanthan gum and poly acrylamide , currently available permeability modifiers. A final advantage of these sulfomethylated melamine gel forming compositions is that they are shear thinning. This means that these compositions remain fluid and easily pumpable up to their gel point, and also that they have the property after the gel point of being able to reheal and gain viscosity after shearing. If gellation starts before the composition has been emplaced the desired distance away from the wellbore, then the gel would be sheared as it is forced through the formation by continued pumping. Thus, since the gelled composition can reheal after shearing, a successful treatment of the reservoir is more likely. In addition, if the gelled composition should be fractured due to excessive pumping pressure during some portion of the fluid fooding, these sulfomethylated melamine gel forming compositions will reheal forming a cohesive gel. Thus, the reservoir will likely not require retreatment if for some reason the gel is inadvertently fractured. Those skilled in the art of permeability modification know that the brine salinity and hardness as well as reservoir temperature will determine if a certain sulfomethylated melamine gel forming composition will be useful under those specific conditions. Careful selection of the components of the gel will be necessary to achieve optimal gels that are useful for the permeability modification of subterranean reservoirs. A further feature of this invention is a method for the selective modification of the permeability of the strata of a subterranean hydrocarbon containing reservoir which comprises Yet another feature of this invention is a method for the recovery of hydrocarbons from a hydrocarbon bearing subterranean reservoir that is undergoing fluid flooding by selective permeability modification of said reservoir comprising A final feature of this invention is a process for preparing aqueous gel forming sulfomethylated melamine compositions, useful in the recovery of hydrocarbons from hydrocarbon bearing reservoirs, comprising reacting for 1 10 hr at 50 95 C in an aqueous medium, the following consituents A to D in the stated molar proportions In the preferred method of forming the compositions comprising components A to D , to an aqueous solution of formaldehyde is added sulfanilic acid, sodium sulfite, and aqueous sodium hydroxide. The slurry is heated and stirred to an internal temperature of 50 C and melamine is added portionwise over a period of 1.5 hours while maintaining the temperature of the reaction mixture at 50 65 C. The reaction mixture is then heated at 90 95 C for 5 6 hours following the end of the melamine addition. The mixture is then cooled and a clear, colorless gel forming composition results. In another method of forming these compositions, melamine is charged into a flask along with sulfanilic acid monohydrate and sodium sulfite. This slurry is stirred vigorously and then the pH is adjusted to about 12 with sodium hydroxide solution. To the resulting mixture, formaldehyde is added and the mixture is heated for several hours at about 80 95 C. The mixture is then cooled and a clear, colorless gel forming composition results. In the examples to follow, all reagents used were Americal Chemical society reagent grade chemicals. The temperatures reported are uncorrected. Percent solids were determined by thin film evaporation at 50 C, 67 134 Pa 0.5 1.0mm for 1 hour. Pressures to determine permeabilities were measured with Validyne pressure transducers. Viscosities were measured with various instruments and are reported individually. Examples 1 28 relate to preparation of the composition containing components A to D before component E is added. To 5433 g 67.0 moles of 37 formalin was added 195.4 g 1.13 mole of sulfanilic acid, 718 g 5.70 mole of sodium sulfite, and 89.4 g 1.12 mole of 50 aqueous sodium hydroxide solution. The slurry was heated with stirring to an internal temperature of 50 C, then 1407 g 11.17 moles of melamine was added portionwise over a period of 1.5 hours. The internal temperature was maintained at 50 65 C during the melamine addition. The reaction mixture was then heated at 90 95 C for 5 6 h following the end of the melamine addition. The resultant solution was then cooled to afford 7.7 kg of product which was 51 solids. To 3,396 g 41.88 mole of 37 aqueous formaldehyde solution was added 1,162 g of water, 120.9 g 0.698 mole of sulfanilic acid, 55.9 g 0.698 mole of 50 aqueous sodium hydroxide and 439.8 g 3.49 mole of sodium sulfite. The slurry was stirred and heated to an internal temperature of 61 C. Then 879.5 g 6.98 mole of melamine was added in 49 g portions, once every 5 min. for 1.5 h. The internal temperature was maintained at 60 65 C during the addition of the melamine. The slurry was then heated to an internal temperature of 87 89 C for 6.5 h. The resultant solution was cooled to room temperature and afforded 5,872 g of product which was 40 solids. To a stirred mixture of 50.0 g 0.3968 mole of melamine, 25.0 g 0.1984 mole sodium sulfite and 100 g of 10 low molecular weight polyacrylamide was added 190 ml 2.531 mol of 37 formalin. The mixture was heated at 70 75 C for 4 h and then poured onto 260 g ice to afford 640 g of clear, colorless solution which was 25 TDS. To 900 ml of nitrogen purged, stirred water was added 100 g 1.4069 mole acrylamide and the mixture was heated to an internal temperature of 35 C. To the stirred mixture was added a solution of 10.00 g 0.0833 mole of sodium bisulfite in 10 ml of water followed by a solution of 10.00 g 0.370 mole of potassium persulfate in 10 ml of water. The reaction was allowed to slowly warm to an internal temperature of 56 C. After 2 h, 0.05 g .000185 mole of potassium persulfate was added and the reaction was maintained at 35 C for 2 h to afford a clear, colorless solution of 10 polyacrylamide. To 25.0 g of 100 hydrolyzed polyvinyl alcohol MW 14,000 was added 190 ml 2.531 mole of 37 formalin. The mixture was stirred and heated at an internal temperature of 70 C for 0.75 h to afford a viscous solution which was called solution A. To a stirred mixture of 50.00 g 0..3968 mole of melamine, 50 ml of water and 12.5 g 0.0992 mole of sodium sulfite was added the hot solution A. The mixture was stirred at 70 75 C for 3.5 h, then diluted with 100 ml of water to afford 443 g of clear solution which was 36.2 TDS. To 150 ml 2.000 mole of 37 formalin was added 52 ml 0.3945 moles of ethylene glycol. The solution was stirred at an internal temperature of 80 C for 0.75 h. This was called solution A. To a stirred mixture of 50.00 g 0.3968 mole of melamine and 25.0 g 0.2984 mole of sodium sulfite was added the hot solution A. The reaction mixture was stirred at an internal temperature of 70 75 for 4 h. To this solution was added 60 g of ice to afford 310 g of clear, colorless solution which was 48 TDS. To a stirred mixture of 25.0 g 0.1984 mole of melamine, 11.92 g 0.1984 mole of urea, 20.83 g 0.1653 mole sodium sulfite, and 22 ml 0.3945 mole of ethylene glycol was added 158 ml 2.1104 mole of 37 formalin. The reaction mixture was stirred at an internal temperature of 75 for 3.5 h, then 82 g of ice was added to afford 352 g of clear, colorless polymer solution which was 48 TDS. To 50.0 g 0.3968 mole of stirred melamine was added 190 ml 2.538 mole of 37 formalin. The mixture was stirred and warmed to an internal temperature of 55 60 C for 30 40 min. To the nearly clear solution was added 39.9 g 0.03968 mole of Jeffamine ED 600. The reaction mixture was stirred at 65 C for 5 10 min and 25 g 0.1984 mole of sodium sulfite was added. The reaction mixture was stirred for 4 h at 70 and poured onto 410 g of ice to afford 758 g of polymer solution which was 24 TDS. To 50 ml of deionized water was added 10.00 g 0.0794 mole of melamine and 38 ml 0.5076 mole of 37 aqueous formalin. The stirred slurry was adjusted to pH 8 with 1N NaOH 10 drops . The reaction mixture was heated at an internal temperature of 60 65 C for 1 h, then 0.53 ml 0.00794 mole of ethylene diamine, followed by 5.0 g 0.397 mole of sodium sulfite. The reaction mixture was heated at 80 85 C for 3 h. and 50 ml of water was added to afford 154 g of clear solution which was 17.0 TDS. To 50 ml of deionized water was added 0.6468 g 0.0079 mole of formaldoxime.HCl. The solution was adjusted to pH 13 with 1N NaOH. To this solution was added 10.00 g 0.0794 mole of melamine, and 36 ml 0.4764 mole of 37 aqueous formalin. The slurry was heated to an internal temperature of 60 65 C. To this solution was added 5.00 g 0.0397 mole of sodium sulfite. The solution was heated at 80 85 C for 3 h, 50 ml of water was added to afford 160.9 g of clear solution which was 20 TDS. To 50 ml of deionized water was added 1.30 g 0.0160 mole of formaldoxime. The solution was adjusted to pH 13 with 1N NaOH. To this solution was added 10.00 g 0.0794 mole of melamine and 36 ml 0.4764 mole of 37 aqueous formalin. The slurry was heated at an internal temperature of 65 for 1.5 h. To the resultant solution was added 5.00 g 0.0397 mole of sodium sulfite and the solution was heated at an internal temperature of 90 95 C for 2 h. To this was added 50 ml of water to afford 157.1 g of clear solution which was 17.5 TDS. To 50 ml of deionized water was added 2.60 g 0.0320 mole of formaldoxime. The solution was adjusted to pH 13 with 1N NaOH. To this solution was added 10.00 g 0.0794 mole of melamine and 36 ml 0.4764 mole of 37 aqueous formalin. The slurry was heated at an internal temperature of 68 70 C for 2 h. To the resultant solution was added 5.00 g 0.0397 mole of sodium sulfite. The solution was heated at 90 95 C for 2 h, to this solution was added 50 ml of water to afford 160.5 g of clear solution which was 18.3 TDS. To 320 ml 4.2742 mole of 37 aqueous formalin was added 13.31 g 0.0696 mole of sulfanilic acid monohydrate, 43.84 g 0.3479 mole sodium sulfite and 5.80 g 0.0696 mole of 50 aqueous sodium hydroxide. The slurry was heated to an internal temperature of 80 C and 87.68 g 0.6959 mole of melamine was added to the hot solution via a screw feeder. The resultant solution was then heated at an internal temperature of 90 95 C for 2.5 h to afford 497 g of clear, colorless solution which was 52 TDS. To 50 ml of deionized water was added 10.00 g 6.0794 melamine, 1.52 g 0.00794 mole of sulfanilic acid monohydrate, 6.00 g 0.0476 mole of sodium sulfite, and 40 ml 0.5343 mole of 37 aqueous formalin. The stirred slurry was adjusted to pH 12 with 1N NaOH and the reaction mixture was heated at an internal temperature of 80 85 C for 5 h to afford 117.3 g of clear, colorless solution which was 22.76 TDS. To 50 ml of stirred deionized water was added 10.00 g 0.0794 mole of melamine, 1.52 g 0.00794 mole of sulfanilic acid monohydrate, 7.00 g 0.0556 mole of sodium sulfite, and 40 ml 0.5343 mole of 37 aqueous formalin. The stirred slurry was adjusted to pH 12 with 1N NaOH and then heated at an internal temperature of 80 85 C for 5 h to afford 115.9 g of clear, colorless solution which was 26.26 TDS. A 5 1 round bottom flask was charged with 85.76 g 0.6806 mole of melamine, 13.04 g 0.0682 mole of sulfanilic acid monohydrate, 68.61 g 0.5445 mole of sodium sulfite and 500 ml of water. The slurry was vigorously stirred, and the pH was adjusted to 12 with 1N sodium hydroxide solution. To the resultant mixture was added 313.04 ml 4.1812 mole of 37 aqueous formaldehyde. The reaction mixture was then heated for 5 hr at 80 85 C. The reaction mixture was cooled to room temperature to afford 1.0 kg of clear, colorless gel forming composition which was 28.3 solids. A stirred mixture of 10.00 g 0.0794 moles of melamine, 0.76 g 0.0040 mole of sulfanilic acid monohydrate, 0.55 g 0.0040 mole of p nitroaniline, 5.00 g 0.0397 mole of sodium sulfite and 50 ml of water was adjusted to pH 12 with 1N sodium hydroxide. To the resultant mixture was added 40 ml 0.5343 mole of 37 aqueous formaldehyde. The reaction mixture was then heated for 5 hr at 80 85 C which on cooling was mixed with 10 ml of water to give 114.8 g of yellow gel forming composition which was 26.0 solids. To 50 ml of deionized water was added 10.00 g 0.0794 mole of melamine, 0.76 g 0.0040 mole of sulfanilic acid monohydrate, 0.55 g 0.0040 mole p aminobenzoic acid, and 5.00 g 0.0397 mole of sodium sulfite. The stirred slurry was adjusted to pH 12 with 1N NaOH. To this slurry was added 40 ml 0.5343 mole of 37 aqueous formalin. The reaction mixture was heated at an internal temperature of 80 85 C for 5 h to afford 117.6 g of clear solution which was 25.4 TDS. To 50 ml of deionized water was added 10.00 g 0.0794 mole of melamine, 0.51 g 0.00265 mole sulfanilic acid monohydrate, 0.36 g 0.00265 mole of p aminobenzoic acid, 0.37 g 0.00265 mole of p nitroaniline, 5.00 g 0.0397 mole of sodium sulfite and 40 ml 0.5343 mole of 37 aqueous formalin. The stirred slurry was adjusted to pH 12 with 1N NaOH and heated at an internal temperature of 80 85 C for 5 h to afford 114.3 g of clear solution which was 26.6 TDS. A stirred mixture of 10.00 g 0.794 moles of melamine, 40 ml 0.5343 moles of 37 aqueous formaldehyde, 1.00 g 0.0072 mole of p nitroaniline, 5.00 g 0.0397 mole of sodium sulfite, and 50 ml of water was heated at 80 85 C for 5 h. Upon cooling to room temperature the resultant clear, yellow solution was diluted with 50 ml of water to give 158.0 g of gel forming composition which was 19.7 solids. To 50 ml of deionized water was added 10.00 g 0.794 mole of melamine, 0.50 g 0.0040 mole p nitroaniline, 0.55 g of p aminobenzoic acid, 40 ml 0.5343 mole 37 aqueous formalin, 5.00 g 0.0397 mole of sodium sulfite, and the slurry was adjusted to pH 12 with 1N NaOH. The slurry was heated at 80 85 C for 5 h to afford 117.3 g of clear, yellow, solution which was 24.8 TDS. To 50 ml of deionized water was added 10.00 g. 0.0794 mole of melamine, 0.50 g 0.0036 mole of p nitroaniline, 0.55 g 0.0040 mole of p aminobenzoic acid, 40 ml 0.5343 mole 37 aqueous formalin, 5.00 g 0.0397 mole of sodium sulfite, and the slurry was adjusted to pH 12 with 1N NaOH. The slurry was heated at 80 85 C for 5 h to afford 117.3 g of clear, yellow solution which was 24.8 TDS. To 50 ml of stirred, deionized water was added 10.00 g 0.0794 mole of melamine, 1.09 g 0.00794 mole of p aminobenzoic acid, 40 ml 0.5343 mole of 37 aqueous formalin, and 5.00 g 0.0397 mole of sodium sulfite. The slurry was stirred and heated at an internal temperature of 80 85 C for 5 h. The resultant solution was diluted with 50 ml of water to afford 154.1 g of clear solution which was 17 TDS. Example 28 was repeated except that 0.50 g 0.0036 mole of p aminobenzoic acid was used. To 50 ml of stirred deionized water was added 10.00 g 0.0794 mole of melamine, 1.09 g 0.00794 mole of p aminobenzoic acid, 7.00 g 0.0556 mole of sodium sulfite and 40 ml 0.5343 mole of 37 aqueous formalin. The slurry was stirred and heated at an internal temperatue of 80 85 C for 5 h to afford 114.7 g of clear solution which was 26.63 TDS. To 50 ml of stirred, deionized water was added 10.00 g 0.0794 mole of melamine, 1.00 g 0.0055 mole of 2,4 dinitroaniline, 5.00 g 0.0397 mole of sodium sulfite and 40 ml 0.5343 mole of 37 aqueous formalin. The slurry was heated at an internal temperature of 80 85 C for 5 h to afford 121.9 g of clear, yellow solution which was 26 TDS. To 50 ml of stirred deionized water was added 10.00 g 0.0794 mole of melamine, 1.00 g 0.0027 mole of 2,4 dinitroaniline, 5.00 g 0.0397 mole of sodium sulfite and 40 ml 0.5343 mole of 37 aqueous formalin. The slurry was heated at 80 85 C for 5 h to afford 114.4 g of clear, yellow solution which was 25.9 solids. The gel composition to be tested was dissolved in the selected brine to form a homogeneous solution, at the selected concentration. The pH s were adjusted, if necessary, using either 1N NaOH or 1N AcOH depending on the pH to be tested. Then, the gelling agent, was added and the resultant solution was injected into an ampule. The ampule was then sealed and immersed in an oil bath at the desired temperature. Ampules were inspected at regular intervals. Sandpacks were prepared from a mixture of New England silica sand consisting of two lots of particle size distributions of 250 177 micron 60 80 mesh and 74 micron 200 mesh in a weight ratio between 5 parts to 1, and 9 parts to 1, respectively. The sand mixtue was packed in 30.5 cm 12 in. long by 2.5 cm 1 in. inside diameter stainless steel cylinders with the top and bottom 6.3 mm 1 4 in. packed with 60 80 mesh sand. Pressure taps were located on the cylinder at the inlet, the outlet, 5.1 cm 2.0 in. from the inlet and 5.1 cm 2.0 in. from the outlet. The sandpack was saturated with tap water and then placed in an oven at the desired temperature. Brine of the desired TDS was injected into the sandpack at several flow rates to attain stable pressure readings at each flow rate. Experiments were done at 345 KPa 50 psig back pressure regulated at the outlet to prevent liquids from vaporizing. The absolute permeabilities k were determined by measuring flow rates and pressure drops across the sandpack and across the two taps on the sandpack. Parafin oil Fischer Scientific USP was injected at several flow rates into the sandpack until brine was no longer displaced and at a steady pressure drop the permeability of the sandpack to oil at residual brine saturation was then determined. The sandpack was then injected with the desired brine at several flow rates until oil was no longer displaced and at steady pressure drop. The permeability of the sandpack to brine at residual oil saturation was then determined. Table 2 summarizes the sandpack experiments of a number of gel forming compositions. The gel forming compositions were dissolved in the indicated brines at the indicated pH. The resultant solutions were injected from an accumulator at room temperature into the sandpack at 1 cc min for 40 min. Brine 10 ml was injected into the system to flush the gel forming solution from the tubing between the accumulator and the sandpack and into the sandpack. The gel forming composition was then allowed to gel in the sandpack. As a check for the gel time, the gel forming solution was also injected into an ampoule as described in Example 27 and the gel time at the indicated temperature was determined. After the gel formed in the ampoule, brine was injected at several flow rates into the sandpack and the permeability to brine was determined. Parafin oil was then injected into the sandpack at several flow rates until residual water saturation was attained and the permeability to oil was determined. Brine flood was resumed again at several flow rates to determine the permeability to brine. It can be seen from the above results that the compositions of the invention gave performances at least as good as those obtained from the comparison examples at a lower polymer concentration.