# HETEROJUNCTION BIPOLAR TRANSISTOR AND METHOD OF MANUFACTURING SAME

## Claims
Bipolarer Heterojunction Transistor

## Description
The present invention relates to a heterojunction bipolar transistor and a method of manufacturing the transistor. Typically, any conventional npn type bipolar transistor is provided with an n type collector which is formed on an n type silicon substrate by means of epitaxial growth, a p type base formed on the n collector by means of diffusion, and an n type emitter formed on the p type base either by means of diffusion or by applying alloy. Likewise, any conventional pnp type bipolar transistor can also be formed in the manner similar to the above. Each of these bipolar transistors incorporates emitter, base, and collector, which are commonly made of a single semiconductive material, i.e., silicon. Operation speed of a transistor, which relates to the high frequency characteristics, depends on the time constants for charging discharging of emitter base and base collector junction capacitances and on the transit time of electrons between emitter and collector. Maximum oscillation frequency Fmax of a bipolar transistor is expressed as Consequently, the smaller the emitter capacitance, the shorter is the time needed for electrons to pass through emitter, thus resulting in improved high frequency characteristics. As a matter of course, the narrower the base width, the shorter is the time needed for electrons to pass through the base, thus also resulting in improved high frequency characteristics. Nevertheless, any of the conventional arts still fails to securely produce such a transistor having less junction capacitance and short base width in addition to satisfactory ohmic contact by the simple structure based on the simplified manufacturing method as described above. Therefore, it is not possible for the conventional arts to produce transistors featuring satisfactory high frequency characteristics. Incidentally, it is known that satisfactory high frequency characteristics can be securely obtained by a heterojunction bipolar transistor, in which the emitter is formed with a specific semiconductor having an energy band gap greater than that of the base to lower the base resistance. Typical heterojunction bipolar transistors are disclosed in No. US A 2,569,347, US A 3,413,533, US A 3,780,359, and an article entitled Heterostructure Bipolar Transistors and Integrated Circuits written by Herbert Kroemer, Proceedings of The IEEE, Vol. 70, No. 1, Pages 13 through 25, issued in 1982. The essence of these prior arts is to make up the band of the emitter base junction by applying a properly selected material so that the band does not substantially act as a barrier to electrons but acts as a large barrier to holes which move from the base to the emitter. As a result, carrier density hole density of the base can be significantly increased. This effectively reduces the base resistance, thus realizing an extremely high maximum oscillation frequency Fmax. Typical one of this type of transistors incorporates emitter made of Al However, the junction capacitance still remains large by merely lowering the base resistance. Further, if the base width is narrowed, the electrode cannot easily be drawn out and eventually the external base resistance will increase. Consequently, these heterojunction bipolar transistors cannot satisfactorily improve the high frequency characteristics. Japanese Patent Publication No. 55 3829 discloses an improved method for extracting base electrode. In this method, n type collector layer, p type base layer and n type emitter layer are respectively formed on a GaAs substrate by applying liquid phase epitaxial method. Next, a part of the n type collector layer is exposed by mesa etching, and then a p type Al However, the method proposed by this prior art still has some problems. Concretely, a parastic junction capacitance produced between the emitter and the later formed base electrode extraction p type Al An article entitled GaAs Ga, Al As Heterojunction Bipolar Transistors with Buried Oxygen Implanted Isolation Layers written by P. M. Asbeck et al., IEEE Electron Device Letters, Volume EDL 5, No. 8, pages 310 312 1984 discloses a new structure and its fabrication process of a heterojunction bipolar transistor to reduce the base collector junction capacitance and the base resistance. In this method, oxygen implanted regions are fabricated between the external bases and external collectors by oxygen implantation and thick external base regions are fabricated by Be ion implantation. As the oxygen implanted regions have less carrier density, the junction capacitance is reduced. Also, thick external base regions have less base resistance. Therefore the high frequency characteristics are improved. However, the method proposed by this prior art still has some problems. Concretely, the resistivity of the oxygen implanted region is not as high as that of the epitaxially grown region. Also, the resistivity of the Be implanted region is not as low as that of the epitaxially grown Be doped region. U.S. Patent 4,380,774 discloses a new structure and its fabrication process of a heterojunction bipolar transistor to reduce the base collector junction capacitance and the base resistance. In this method, boron implanted regions are fabricated between the external bases and external collectors by boron implantation, and thick external base regions are fabricated by Ge evaporation. As the boron implanted regions have less carrier density, the junction capacitance is reduced. Also, thick external base regions have less base resistance. Therefore, the high frequency characteristics are improved. However, the method disclosed by this prior art has some problems. Concretely, the resistivity of the boron implanted region is not as high as that of the epitaxially grown region. Also, the resistivity of the Ge evaporated region is not as low as that of the epitaxially grown Be doped region. As is clear from the foregoing explanation, it is quite difficult for any conventional art to securely produce transistors featuring small junction capacitance, narrow base width, and small external base resistance. Consequently, the transistors produced by the conventional arts cannot have fully satisfactory high frequency characteristics. In the light of the disadvantages inherent to the transistors manufactured by the prior art as described above, an object of the present invention is to provide a novel structure of a heterojunction bipolar transistor and a related manufacturing method, featuring small junction capacitance, narrow base width, small external base resistance, and easy base electrode extraction. To securely achieve the above object, the present invention provides a method of manufacturing a heterojunction bipolar transistor comprising the steps of Implementation of this method securely realizes a novel structure of heterojunction bipolar transistor, as defined in claim 1, featuring easiness of base electrode extraction, low external base resistance, extremely narrow base width, and small collector and emitter capacitances. The present invention will be better understood from the detailed description given hereinbelow in connection with the accompanying drawings in which FIG. 1 is a sectional diagram of a heterojunction bipolar transistor as a first preferred embodiment of the present invention. Referring to FIG. 1, the heterojunction bipolar transistor comprises a semi insulating GaAs substrate 1, a first collector layer which is substantially an electrode extraction layer 2 of n type GaAs, a second collector layer 3 of n type GaAs, a first base layer which is substantially an electrode extraction layer or first external base layer 4 of p type GaAs, a second base layer 5 of p type GaAs, a first emitter layer 6 of n type Al In this structure, the second collector layer 3, the second base layer 5 and the first emitter layer 6 correspond to the so called collector , base and emitter, respectively, of the transistor. Energy band gap of GaAs is 1.42 eV, and energy band gap of Al Thickness of each layer is as follows Note Layers 2 through 7 and 11 are respectively formed by means of molecular beam epitaxy MBE . Next, a method of manufacturing the FIG. 1 embodiment will be decribed. As shown in FIG. 2, layers 2, 3, 11 and 4 are formed to be the predetermined thicknesses on the semi insulating GaAs substrate 1 using molecular beam epitaxy. Next, a resist mask 12 is formed on the layer 4 by conventional photolithography, and then, using the resist mask 12, as shown in FIG. 3, a part of the second collector layer 3 is exposed by partially etching the first base layer 4 of p type GaAs and the semi insulating GaAs semiconductor layer 11. This portion will hereafter be referred to as cut portion . At this time, the second collector layer 3 may be partly etched as shown by a broken line in FIG. 3. The etching of the GaAs layers can be done by using a solution containing a mixture of H₂SO₄ H₂O₂ H₂O. By using a substrate having surface orientation 001 as the GaAs layers, the tilt angle of the etched slant wall surfaces of the layers 4 and 11 can be made smaller than 90 , more specifically nearly 45 as seen from the crystallographic orientation 110 as shown in FIG. 3. Next, the resist 12 is removed with acetone, and then the second base layer 5 of 40nm 400Å p type GaAs, the first emitter layer 6 of 150nm 1500Å n type Al The grown up second base layer 5 is formed on the exposed part of the second collector layer 3, the slant surfaces of the semi insulating semiconductor layer 11 and the first base layer 4, and the upper surface of the first base layer 4. The part of the second base layer 5 formed on the exposed part of the collector layer 3 functions as a base, whereas the part of the second base layer 5 formed on the upper surface of the first base layer 4 functions as a first external base layer where the base electrode 9 will be formed. This first external base layer and the first base layer 4 jointly function as an external base resistor. The part of the second base layer 5 formed on the slant surfaces of the semi insulating semiconductor layer 11 and the first base layer 4 functions as a second external base layer for electrically connecting the first external base layer and the part functioning as the base. Since the tilt angle is nearly 45 , the electrical connection can be secured satisfactorily. A variety of tilt angles can be obtained by properly selecting the crystal orientation and the wet etching solution. However, it is quite necessary to grow the second base layer 5 on the slant surfaces without causing a disconnection between the part formed on the exposed collector 3 and the first base layer 4. To securely realize this, at least a part of the slant surfaces should be tilted less than 90 . This can be realized by properly combining the crystal orientation and the wet etching solution. Next, the part where the first base layer 4 which is substantially the electrode extraction layer exists is partially etched by photolithography using a solution of a mixture of H₂SO₄ H₂O₂ H₂O so that the first and second base layer 4 and 5 and the first collector layer 2 are partially exposed. Next, the resist is removed with acetone. Thereafter, the emitter electrode 10 is formed on the second emitter layer 7 at the cut portion above the part functioning as the base where the first base layer 4 and the semi insulating semiconductor layer 11 have been removed. Further, the base electrode 9 and collector electrode 8 are formed on the exposed base layer 5 and collector layer 2, respectively. The electrodes 10, 9 and 8 are formed by ordinary photolithography, vacuum evaporation and heat treatment. According to the structure of the heterojunction bipolar transistor embodied by the present invention, collector capacitance Cc is the sum of the junction capacitance of the pn junction part between the layers 3 and 5 and the junction capacitance of the junction part between the layers 11 and 3. Generally, capacitance Cpn of the pn junction is expressed as follows where Accordingly, it is understood that, when a significant difference is present between the concentrations of acceptor and donor, the junction capacitance Cpn can be determined approximately by smaller one of the concentrations. In the first preferred embodiment of the present invention, the acceptor concentration of the p type GaAs base layer is 1 10¹⁹ cm³ and the donor concentration of the n type GaAs collector layer is 5 10¹⁶ cm³. Accordingly, the junction capacitance is approximately expressed as follows On the other hand, since the acceptor concentration of the semi insulating GaAs layer is at most 1 10¹⁵ cm³, the junction capacitance between the n type GaAs layer and the semi insulating GaAs layer is proportional to the square root of this acceptor concentration, and thus the value of this junction capacitance is significantly smaller than that given by the formula 5 . The ratio of these junction capacitances approximately corresponds to the ratio of the thickness of the depletion layer formed on the collector and the thickness of the semi insulating semiconductor layer. In the present embodiment, since the thickness of the collector depletion layer is about 250nm 2500Å and the thickness of the semi insulating semiconductor layer is 500nm 5000Å , the collector capacitance at the portion where the semi insulating semiconductor layer exists is reduced to one half the case in which no semi insulating semiconductor layer exists. Even when using a p type Al Emitter capacitance Ce in the present embodiment is proportional to the junction area of the re grown emitter and the base. Since this junction area is identical to the mesa etching area of the emitter, it can be determined by the dimensions of the photolithography mask, and can be set at the minimum dimensions of the mask. Since the emitter portion is processed by mesa etching, the structure of the present embodiment has a small parastic capacitance. Further, since energy band gap of the emitter is larger than that of the base, carrier concentration of the base can be made higher, and therefore the base resistance can be reduced. Further, the width of the present embodiment is extremely short, i.e., 40nm 400Å . The base transit time τb needed for electrons to pass through the base of a bipolar transistor is expressed as follows Consequently, the high frequency characteristics based on the base transit time of electrons can be improved drastically. In addition, since the base electrode extraction part the first external base layer , whose thickness is a sum of those of the first base layer 4 and the second base layer the base 5, is thicker than that of the second base layer the base 5, the base resistance at this part, i.e. the external base resistance, can be extremely reduced. In other words, since the base is thinner than the first external base layer, the external base resistance can be reduced with maintaining the short base transit time. This also contributes to the improvement of the high frequency characteristics. As was initially expected, the heterojunction bipolar transistor of the present embodiment showed a variety of advantageous features. First, the introduction of the semi insulating semiconductor layer resulted in sharp reduction of the collector capacitance by about 43 . In addition, since the parastic capacitance is negligible and minimum dimensions of mask can be applied, the emitter capacitance was reduced. Furthermore, an ideal ohmic electrode could be formed on the extremely thin 40nm 400Å base. Consequently, the base transit time was reduced by 70 compared with the conventional one with 150nm 1500Å base width. Also, the external base resistance was reduced by 30 . As a result, when employing the same minimum dimensions, the heterojunction bipolar transistor of the present embodiment proved to have sharply improved high frequency characteristics compared to any conventional heterojunction bipolar transistors, indicating sharp improvement of cutoff frequency Ft by about 25 and maximum oscillation frequency Fmax by about 56 . The first preferred embodiment has 40nm 400Å base width for example. However, a still thinner base can be realized by applying molecular beam epitaxy. Furthermore, an extremely thin base can be produced also by applying metalorganic chemical vapor phase epitaxy MO CVD for example. In addition, the first preferred embodiment employ GaAs Al In the first preferred embodiment, x 0.3 as Al concentration is used, but, Al concentration can be chosen freely in the range of x 0, in which energy band gap of Al Likewise, in the first preferred embodiment, GaAs is used for the semi insulating semiconductor layer. It is suggested that, if Al Also, the first preferred embodiment has n type emitter and collector, and p type base. It is also possible to replace the emitter and collector by the p type and the base by the n type. The first preferred embodiment has a structure in which the collector was formed before forming the emitter above it. This relationship can be reversed by first forming the emitter before forming the collector above it. Such a structure is shown in FIG. 5. Only the positions of the emitter and the collector are reversed, whereas exactly identical structure and production method are applied to the remaining parts. The same description can be applied to this second embodiment by merely exchanging the emitter capacitance with the collector capacitance in the foregoing description. In other words, in the second preferred embodiment the emitter capacitance can be sharply decreased by the presence of the semi insulating semiconductor layer, and the collector capacitance is determined by the minimum dimensions of the mask, and yet, reducing the parastic capacitance. The second preferred embodiment introduces the exactly same effects as to the base resistance and the extraction of the base electrode as those in the first preferred embodiment. As a result, the second preferred embodiment proved to have achieved significant improvement of the high frequency characteristics almost identical to the first preferred embodiment. The first preferred embodiment provides a method which forms the first base layer preliminarily on the semi insulating semiconductor layer. However, even if this layer is absent, the third preferred embodiment provides the identical effect of improved junction capacitance. The structure of the third preferred embodiment shown in FIG. 6 can be produced by applying the same method as the first preferred embodiment except that the first base layer is not formed. Compared with any of the conventional heterojunction bipolar transistors available today, the third embodiment also sharply decreases the junction capacitance, so that it also proved to have significantly improved high frequency characteristics.