# THERMAL IMAGERS

## Claims
Thermisches Abbildungssystem, mit den folgenden Merkmalen

## Description
This invention relates to thermal imagers which use liquid crystals as the sensing elements. It is known to use liquid crystal cells for thermal imaging. The crystals are contained by transparent plates which form the walls of the cell. In use, the liquid crystal is held at its cholesteric isotropic phase transition temperature. At this temperature the crystal has a large temperature coefficient of optical rotary power. When infra red radiation falls on the crystal held at this temperature, it alters the crystal temperature locally, producing changes in phase within the crystal, US A 4, 148,951 discloses a thermal imaging device having a support means which also acts as a heat storage means for reducing heat loss from a liquid crystal thermographic sheet mounted thereon. A detection device, in the form of a small flexible thermal imager is provided to measure the temperature change of the thermographic sheet. Unfortunately due to its exposed position, the thermographic sheet suffers from undesirable heat loss which can adversely effect the accuracy of any readings taken. In addition to this, it is necessary to press the thermal imager up against the surface of the thermographic sheet in order to determine the properties of the thermographic sheet. Inaccurate positioning of the thermal imager can adversely effect the accuracy of the device. Also known are thermal imagers which utilise free standing chiral smectic C liquid crystal films. These films have thicknesses between 10 to 100 molecules 50 500nm 500 5,000 Å , are known to exhibit a strong temperature dependence in which the pitch of the helix alters with temperature. The change in the pitch of the helix and therefore the temperature change is measured by passing a read beam of polarised light through the film and determining the change in the read beam. By the term free standing is meant those liquid crystals which have sufficient surface tension to form a film without the necessity of containment plates. However, thermal imagers of this type are required to have a response time which is less than 50 ms and a sensitivity which enables temperature changes of less than 1K in the scene to be detected. In order to meet the required response time, a film thickness of 0.1µm is needed. This however produces the problem that the change in the read beam may not be large enough to be detectable after it has passed through the film. It is therefore an object of the invention to provide a thermal imager having a thicker liquid crystal film which enables the change in the read beam to be detectable whilst retaining the response time of the imager. According to one aspect of the invention, there is provided a thermal imaging system including Advantageously, said film element is mounted within a shallow well formed in said support means. Preferably, said film element and support means are positioned between first and second partially reflective members to enhance the change in said light beam. Advantageously the system includes means for summing the transmitted portions of the beam to produce a representation of the image. According to a second aspect of the invention, there is provided an infra red radiation transducer comprising a support member which is made of heat retaining material, and a film of heat sensitive liquid crystal material supported by the support member, characterised in that said support member has portions defining the base and sides of a shallow well open at one surface of the member, said film of heat sensitive liquid crystal material is contained in and supported by the base and sides of said well, infra red radiation receiving means for receiving infra red radiation from a remote source and directing it onto the surface of said film which is exposed at said one surface of the member, and visible radiation beam producing means for directing a beam of visible electromagnetic radiation through said film and said member, said heat retaining material being transmissive of said visible radiation beam and said heat sensitive film, being operable to modulate the visible radiation beam in dependence upon the temperature of the film. For a better understanding of the invention, reference will now be made, by way of example, to the accompanying drawings in which The imager shown in figure 1 comprises a smectic liquid crystal film element 1 mounted in a hole 2 formed in a block 3 of insulating material. The hole 2 is between 6 to 10µm deep The resonant cavity shown in figure 2 comprises a pair of substrates 10, 11 on which are deposited dielectric mirrors 12, 13 respectively. The substrates 10, 11 are required to transmit both infra red and visible radiation, and if required each one may be made of a different material to the other. The mirrors 12, 13 are partially reflective and partially transmissive having a reflectivity, R, of about 94 95 . A thermal imager 14 as described previously is mounted in the cavity between the mirrors 12, 13 adjacent a compensator 14 which is in contact with the mirror 13. The compensator 15 nulls out the natural birefringence of the film 1 and the insulator 3 when the imager is in the OFF sate An iris 16 is positioned in front of the imager 14 so that the read beam only passes through the active region In operation, the incident infra red radiation 18 and the read beam 19 are both incident on the substrate 10 and pass through it and the mirror 12 onto the film 1. The infra red beam 18 passes into the insulator 3 and exists the cavity The polarization changes observed are from linear to elliptical and back again The substrates 10, 11 may be made of a material IRTRAN 2 and the dielectric mirrors 12, 13 may be made from zinc sulphide and cyolite deposited on the substrates. The enhancement of the read beam 19, which is obtained is related to the mirror reflectivity R The response time of the imager 14 when mounted in a Fabry Perot resonant cavity, depends on the thickness of the insulator 3 behind the film 1 and the heat sinking properties of the compensator 15. Naturally, the passage of beam 19 through the imager 14 in figure 2 has been exaggerated to show multiple reflections at the dielectric mirrors 12, 13 but in effect, these paths overlap, that is, the beam 18, 19 are both incident on the imager 14, and hence the mirrors 12, 13 normally. In the embodiments described, a single liquid crystal film is used. It is, of course, possible to use a reticulated structure as disclosed in our UK Patent Application No. 2163566 published 26.02.86 in which separate imager are positioned in an array with the appropriate thermal isolation being provided between each imager unit.