# COMPOSITIONS OF POLYCYCLOALKENYL TERMINATED, UNSATURATED POLYESTERS OR POLYESTERAMIDES AND VINYL REACTIVE PLASTICIZERS THEREFOR

## Claims
Härtbare, elastischgemachte Polyesterzusammensetzung, enthaltend in Mischung

## Description
U.S. Patents 4,148,765 and 4,233,432 disclose dicyclopentadiene modified, unsaturated polyesters. The latter esters have good properties in other respects but are inherently low in tensile strength, percent elongation, impact strength and ductility this is true also of the polyesteramides disclosed in the above identified applications. If the several foregoing types of polyesters could be improved in the latter regards, while largely retaining their other properties, this would be highly significant to certain applications such as, for example, pultrusion formed, oil well sucker rods. U.S. Patent 3,297,745 discloses, as homo and copolymerizeable monomers , certain oligomeric urethane chains capped with vinyl terminated end groups. A copolymer derived from styrene, an allyloxy terminated oligomer and a methacryloxy terminated oligomer is stated to have had higher tensile and flexural moduli than homopolymers of any of the three monomers. U.S. Patent 4,360,653 discloses impact resistant polymerizates of the latter types of oligomers with allyl carbonates of polyols. U.S. Patent 4,390,662 teaches toughening of polyester and vinyl ester resins vinyl esters plus styrene with unsaturated polyurethanes prepared by reacting 1 molecular proportion of an organic diol with from 0.7 to 1 molecular proportion of a diisocyanate and capping the resulting adduct with 2 molecular proportions of a hydroxyalkylacrylate. The polyurethanes have molecular weights corresponding to weight average molecular chain extensions, calculated as polystyrene, of from 100 to 1500Å 10 150 nm , preferably from 200 to 1000Å 20 100 nm , most preferably from 300 to 1000Å 30 100 nm . That is, the rectilinear length of an unstraightened polystyrene molecule having a molecular weight equal to the weight average molecular weight of the polyurethane is from 100 to 1500Å 10 150 nm , etc. A length range of from 100 to 1000Å 10 100 nm corresponds to a molecular weight range of from about 22,295 to about 2,229,500. The patent teaches that in order to be an effective toughener, the polyurethane must phase out upon curing of polyester styrene urethane compositions but must not phase out upon curing of vinyl ester styrene urethane compositions . Thus, the patent teaches away from the use of oligomeric urethanes for toughening of either polyester or vinyl ester resins. It also teaches away from toughening of polyester resins with urethanes which do not phase out upon curing. US Patents Nos. 4410686, 4409371, 4233432, 4167542 and 4443580 all disclose polycycloalkenyl terminated polyesters and or polyesteramides. Unfortunately, the resins resulting from use of these compounds alone are generally very brittle, making them unsuitable for the applications to which the present invention relates. However, none of these Patents discloses use of a vinyl reactive plasticiser to increase flexibility. US 4421894 discloses a curable composition comprising unsaturated polyesters and a vinyl reactive polyurethane oligomer as plasticiser. This Patent teaches that addition of the polyurethane oligomer increases flexibility of the resulting resin but only when the oligomer forms a separate phase in the reaction mixture on curing. Moreover, the Patent makes no reference to use of polycycloalkenyl terminated polyesters and or polyesteramides. US 3448172 discloses a composition generally similar in type to the composition of US 4421894 above, comprising unsaturated polyesters and a vinyl reactive urethane oligomer. Once again, however, there is no reference to use of polycycloalkenyl terminated polyesters. Moreover, there is no suggestion that if such polyesters were to be used that the composition should be formulated specifically to avoid phasing out of the oligomer during curing where such phasing has, up to now, been widely considered to be essential see discussion of US 4390662 and US 4421894 above . The term polycycloalkenyl as used herein is intended to designate a polycyclic hydrocarbon radical containing a reactive, cycloolefinic double bond for example, a radical derived from the dimer of cyclopentadiene may be designated as a tricyclodecenyl radical and a norbornenyl radical may be designated as a dicycloheptenyl radical. The term urethane oligomer or oligomeric urethane is used herein to designate polymeric molecules made up of polyglycol and urethane units as defined in detail subsequently herein and having weight average molecular weights of less than 22,000 preferably, less than 9400. For convenience, the unmodified term alkyd is used herein to designate both polyesters and polyesteramides, per se, whereas the term alkyd resin is intended to refer to mixtures of the alkyds and vinyl monomers such as styrene, for example . The symbol NH is used herein to represent NH₂ or NHR groups R being defined later herein or divalent NH groups in which the N is a member of a heterocyclic ring. The primary object of the present invention is to improve the ductility, percent elongation, impact strength and tensile strength of polycycloalkenyl terminated, unsaturated polyesters and polyesteramides while largely retaining the other properties thereof i.e., to flexibilize them without adversely effecting them otherwise. A further object is to provide for attainment of the primary object in a direct and simple manner, as by mixing the subject polyester alkyds with vinyl terminated, oligomeric urethanes which do not phase out when the mixture is cured. An additional object is to utilize certain known, readily made types of urethane oligomers as the latter flexibilizers. A principle object is to provide flexibilized, cured compositions of polycycloalkenyl terminated polyesters or polyesteramides with vinyl monomers, such as for example styrene and various acrylate monomers. Still other objects will be made apparent to those knowledgeable in the art by the following specifications and claims. The term composition herein is intended to apply to mixtures of the polyesters or polyesteramides and the oligomers which do or do not include vinyl monomers. The present invention provides a curable, flexibilized polyester composition comprising, in admixture Dicyclopentadiene modified, unsaturated polyesters represent a relatively new class of polyesters which, as alkyd resins, have improved economics and many highly useful properties, such as low shrinkage upon curing and excellent resistance to corrosion by aqueous media. The new class of polyester alkyds represented by the unsaturated polyesteramides of the above referenced applications exhibit as the alkyd resins not only the desirable properties of the known dicyclopentadiene modified polyesters but also exhibit improved reactivity, excellent resistance to organic solvents, excellent electrical insulating properties and excellent resistance to thermal aging. Both of the foregoing classes of alkyd resins tend to be inherently low in tensile strength, impact strength, percent elongation, ductility and, to a lesser extent, in flexural strength. Only a limited improvement is realized when the known ploy of using mixed glycols or glycol ethers is employed in forming the dicyclopentadiene or cyclopentadiene modified polyesters or polyesteramides. However, it has now been found that mixtures of the latter types of resins with vinyl terminated urethane oligomers vinyl reactive plasticizers or VRP s provide cured compositions possessing substantially improved mechanical properties. Representative of one type of polyester component of the present invention are those derived predominantly from maleic acid and propylene glycol. These may be depicted by the ideal or statistical structure, wherein Q, in at least one occurrence, is a polycycloalkenyl radical such as, for example, a tricyclodecenyl or bicycloheptenyl radical, i.e., or is a radical of the formula for example when Q is not a polycycloalkenyl radical in the second occurrence, it may be OH, NH or COOH. Preferably, Q is a polycycloalkenyl group in both occurrences, in at least a major proportion of the alkyd molecules, and m and n are integers from 1 to 10 and 1 to 100, respectively. Representative of another type of polyester component of the present invention are those derived in part from maleic acid, endomethylenetetrahydrophthalic acid, and propylene glycol. The endomethylenetetrahydrophthalic acid groups may be incorporated by partial replacement of maleic acid therewith or by generation wherein Q, m and n have the same meanings as in structure I. Again, Q is preferably a polycycloalkenyl group in both occurrences, in at least a predominant proportion of the alkyd molecules. Representative of one type of the polyesteramide component of the present invention are those deriveable from maleic acid, propylene glycol and ethylene diamine. These may be depicted by the ideal or statistical structure wherein Q, m and n have the same meaning as in structure I. Again, Q is preferably a polycycloalkenyl group in both occurrences, in at least a predominant proportion of the alkyd molecules. In each of the foregoing types of structures I, II and III the polycycloalkenyl radicals in a given molecule or in different molecules do not have to be the same. For example, when dicyclopentadiene is employed to modify a polyester, it can react by adduction of a double bond with an alcoholic or carboxylic OH group preferably the latter to form a terminal group of formula a however, it can also crack to provide monomeric cyclopentadiene which in turn can form Diels Alder adducts with dienophilic carbon to carbon double bonds such as are present in maleic anhydride, maleic acid and polycycloalkenyl end groups. Termination with the above type b group may result from in situ formation of endomethylenetetrahydrophthalic anhydride. Type c end groups may form by successive additions of cyclopentadiene to a type a group. Although dicyclopentadiene as a commercial DCPD concentrate is the modifier of economic choice, incorporation of terminal polycycloalkenyl radicals of types other than the preceding a , b and c groups is not ruled out. In fact, such other groups may be derived from components of DCPD concentrates other than DCPD itself, such as for example a cyclopentadiene co dimer, an isoprene dimer or the trimers of cyclopentadiene pentacycloalkadienes which react to form a pentacycloalkenyl radical . Other examples of precursors to polycycloalkenyl radicals are the Diels Alder adducts of 1 butadiene, isoprene or cis or transpiperylene with dicyclopentadiene, 2 butadiene, isoprene, a piperylene or cyclopentadiene with bicyclo 2,2,1 hepta 2,5 diene and 3 cyclohexadiene 1,3 with butadiene, isoprene, a piperylene, cyclopentadiene or itself. Toluene sulfonic acid catalyzed addition of COOH groups to the afore named bicycloheptadiene to form esters is known. The products consist predominantly of saturated esters having a nortricyclene structure but also include substantial amounts of the bicycloheptenyl esters. Reaction of a carboxyl end group in a polyester moiety with one of the double bonds in the bicycloheptadiene should then result in production of a substantial content of bicycloheptenyl terminations. Thus, di to decacycloalkenyl terminal groups may be introduced in the polyester or polyesteramide components of the present invention by utilizing a variety of known types of alicyclic diolefins. Polycycloalkadienes of more than five fused rings can be utilized but are considered definitely less desirable. An alternative method of incorporating dicyclopentadiene or norbornene moieties is to esterify an alcoholic hydroxyl terminated polyester esteramide chain with a dicyclopentadiene acrylic acid, 5 norbornene 2 acrylic acid or the Diels Alder adduct of cyclopentadiene with acrylic acid. In still another method, the norbornene group may be incorporated by reaction of a carboxyl terminated polyester moiety with 5 norbornene 2 ol or dicyclopentadiene monoalcohol. The polycycloalkenyl terminated polyesters suitable for the practice of the present invention are then those which are deriveable from cyclic diolefins, difunctional carboxylic acids and polyols, and include at least one polycycloalkenyl end group and another end group which is an OH, NH, COOH or polycycloalkenyl group said acid consisting at least partially of an α,β unsaturated diacid and any remainder consisting of saturated aliphatic acid s , aromatic acid s or mixtures thereof and said polyol being of the formula HO R⁴ OH, as subsequently defined herein. The latter polyesters are generally preparable by the methods disclosed in U.S. Patents 4,189,548 4,167,542 and 4,148,765 for making dicyclopentadiene modified polyesters. The latter methods may be modified according to the foregoing discussion of ways of introducing polycycloalkenyl groups other than those deriveable directly from dicyclopentadiene or cyclopentadiene per se. The polycycloalkenyl terminated polyesteramides employed in the present invention are those having a central esteramide chain comprising Typical diamine components of the foregoing polyesteramides are ethylene diamine, propylene diamine, hexane 1,6 diamine, piperazine, 4,4 methylenebis cyclohexylamine , 2,2 bis 4 aminocyclohexyl propane, 4,4 diaminodiphenyl ether, bis aminomethyl norbornane, toluene diamine, bis aminomethyl dicyclopentadiene and homopiperazine. Typical polyamines are aminoethylpiperazine and diethylenetriamine. The polyol component of the polyester or polyesteramide is from the class having the formula Representative such polyols are ethylene glycol, propylene glycol, diethylene glycol, dipropylene glycol, dicyclopentadiene dimethanol, bis hydroxymethyl norbornane, methyl cyclohexanedimethanol, bis hydroxypropyl bisphenol A and other hydroxyalkylated bisphenols, pentaerythritol, sorbitol and glycerine. When a polyesteramide is to be used, the ratio of diamine to polyol therein can be varied within wide limits. The latter ratio is significantly related to the solubility of the modified polyesteramide in reactive diluents, such as styrene, which are commonly employed with polyesteramides for many applications. As a general rule, the moles of diamine should not exceed about 1 3 the combined moles of the polyol and diamine. The structure and size of the diamine molecule will determine to great extent the maximum amount of diamine that can be used. The unsaturated polycarboxylic acid component of the polyester or polyesteramide preferably is largely composed of an α,β unsaturated acid, such as maleic acid, fumaric acid, maleic anhydride or mixtures of those compounds. The latter acids are readily available, have good reactivity with the polyol and or diamine, and result in products of good properties. Part of the α,β unsaturated acid may be further replaced with a saturated or aromatic polycarboxylic acid to vary the cross linking potential and physical properties of the modified polyester or polyesteramide. Such acids include the aliphatic acids such as adipic acid and the aromatic acids such as isophthalic acid. Replacement of part of the α,β unsaturated acid with such acids is commonplace in the polyester art. Suitable selection of the acid and the amount thereof to achieve a desired purpose will be known to the skilled worker and can be optimized with simple preliminary experiments. When endomethylenetetrahydrophthalic acid or anhydride is used, it may be prepared separately or in situ by known methods. Furthermore, it may be composed totally or partially of the corresponding methyl endomethylenetetrahydrophthalic anhydride. The modified polyesteramides can be prepared by a variety of techniques. In one of the most preferred methods, hereinafter called the hydrolysis method, an α,β unsaturated polycarboxylic anhydride and or acid is partially hydrolyzed with less than the stoichiometric equivalent of water and reacted with less than or equal to the stoichiometric equivalent of the dicyclopentadiene derivative to form a product containing the esterified derivative, any preferably no unreacted derivative and the unesterified acid and anhydride. This reaction may conveniently be performed in stages whereby reactants are added stepwise, thus controlling exotherms. The resulting reaction mixture is then reacted with the polyol and diamine to produce the desired modified polyesteramide. In a typical procedure, molten maleic anhydride and a fraction of the stoichiometric equivalent of water are maintained at an elevated temperature of from 60 to 130 C. The initial fractional equivalent of dicyclopentadiene DCPD is then added and allowed to react. A second fractional equivalent of water and of DCPD is added and allowed to react. Additional fractional equivalents of DCPD are added and each allowed to react before subsequent addition of the next increment until the desired amount of DCPD has been added. The number of fractional equivalents can be increased and the increment size accordingly decreased to afford any desired number of increments. If desired, the DCPD addition can be continuous. Optionally, the relative sizes of successive increments or the rate of continuous addition may vary. To the mixture of esterified DCPD, unreacted α,β unsaturated polycarboxylic acid and or anhydride, is added the polyol and diamine. The addition can be a bulk addition wherein all of the polyol and diamine are added in one step. Alternatively, the addition can be an incremental addition wherein all of the polyol and a fractional equivalent of the diamine are added initially and allowed to react after which subsequent increments of diamine are added. In all instances, water is continuously removed during the esteramidation step. The timing of the remaining diamine additions can be easily determined by the amount of water removed, by acid number and or by viscosity. A convenient and practical guide is to add a diamine increment when about one fourth to one half of the expected water from the reaction has been collected. Incremental diamine addition aids in the control of reaction exotherm when certain diamines are used. After addition of the polyol and diamine is complete, the reaction can be driven to maximum yield by maintaining or increasing the temperature, preferably from 160 to 205 C, until the desired acid number has been reached. Typically, acid numbers of 15 to 35 are preferred, although acid numbers that are somewhat higher or lower may be tolerated, and, in some instances, may be desired for certain applications. In an equally preferred method, hereinafter called the prehydrolysis method , an α,β unsaturated polycarboxylic anhydride is essentially totally hydrolyzed with a stoichiometric or greater equivalent of water and reacted with less than or equal to the stoichiometric equivalent of the dicyclopentadiene derivative to form a product containing esterified dicyclopentadiene derivative, the unreacted derivative if any , and the unesterified acid. This reaction may conveniently be performed in stages whereby reactants are added stepwise, thus controlling reaction exotherms. The product mixture is then reacted with the polyol and diamine as earlier mentioned to result in the desired modified polyesteramide. In a typical procedure, molten maleic anhydride and the stoichiometric or greater equivalent of water are maintained at an elevated temperature of from 60 to 130 C. The temperature is allowed to stabilize at 120 to 125 C and the intial fractional equivalent of DCPD is then added and allowed to react. A second fractional equivalent of DCPD is then added and allowed to react. Additional fractional equivalents of DCPD are added and each allowed to react, before subsequent addition of the next increment, until the desired amount of DCPD has been added to the product mixture. The polyol and diamine are added to the mixture of esterified DCPD and acid as described in the aforementioned hydrolysis method. In a preferred method, hereinafter called the direct method, maleic anhydride and or acid and the desired amount of DCPD are reacted at an elevated temperature to form endomethylenetetrahydrophthalic anhydride. After cooling the reaction mixture, the unreacted maleic anhydride is hydrolyzed with less than, equal to or greater than the a stoichiometric equivalent of water and reacted with additional dicyclopentadiene derivative to form a product containing an esterified DCPD derivative and unesterified acids and or anhydrides. This reaction may conveniently be performed in stages whereby reactants are added stepwise, thus controlling reaction exotherms. The product mixture is then reacted with the polyol and diamine as earlier mentioned to result in the desired modified polyesteramide. In a typical procedure, molten maleic anhydride and the desired amount of DCPD are maintained at an elevated temperature of from 130 to 170 C to form endomethylenetetrahydrophthalic anhydride. The temperature is then allowed to stabilize at 60 to 130 C and a fractional equivalent of water is added. A fractional equivalent of DCPD is added and allowed to react. A second fractional equivalent of water and of DCPD is added and allowed to react. Additional fractional equivalents of DCPD are added and each allowed to react before subsequent addition of the next increment until the desired amount of DCPD has been added. The polyol and diamine are added to the mixture of esterified DCPD and acids and or anhydrides as described in the aforementioned hydrolysis method. When a dicyclopentadiene concentrate containing piperylene and or isoprene codimers of cyclopentadiene is used, dedimerization of said codimers followed by subsequent reaction of piperylene and or isoprene with maleic anhydride and or acid leads to formation of methyl tetrahydrophthalic anhydrides and or acids. The methyl tetrahydrophthalyl groups are incorporated into the esteramide chains in a manner identical to that of the endomethylenetetrahydrophthalyl groups. If methyldicyclopentadiene is used, methyl cyclopentadiene will form, resulting in formation of Diels Alder adducts thereof. In a further modification of either the hydrolysis, prehydrolysis or direct method, a polyol containing 3 or more hydroxyl groups such as pentaerythritol may be separately added to the reaction after polyesteramidation is substantially complete. This serves to rapidly increase molecular weight and viscosity by cross linking of the esteramide chains. Modified physical properties result from this embodiment. Many other alternate methods will be apparent to the skilled worker. For example, molten maleic anhydride may be added to a mixture of DCPD and water maintained in a reactor. The polyol and diamine can then be added to the mixture of esterified DCPD and acids and or anhydrides as before. Finally, although less preferred, DCPD, maleic anhydride, water, glycol, and none, all or part of the diamine may be simultaneously reacted. The VRP component of the composition of the invention is a polyglycol moiety comprising urethane oligomer having end groups of which at least one is vinyl reactive i.e., contains a polymerizeable carbon to carbon double bond . The oligomers of this type disclosed as monomers in the aforementioned 745 and 653 patents are generally suitable for the practice of the present invention. Similar oligomers in which the end groups are incorporated as hydroxyalkyl acrylate initiated polyglycols, rather than as the hydroxyalkyl acrylates per se, are not only suitable but advantageous in the VRP role. Also suitable VRP s are the bis N vinylcarbamates formed by the reaction of an unsaturated isocyanate with a polyglycol. Suitable such isocyanates are vinyl isocyanate and isopropenyl isocyanate as disclosed in U.S. Patent 3,598,866 see Example 8 therein. Similarly, polyadducts of isocyanatoethyl methacrylate, allyl isocyanate, allyl isothiocyanate or allyl glycidyl ether with polyglycols also may be used as the VRP component. The VRP component of the compositions of the invention alternatively may be of the novel type described in U.S. Patent No. 4,486,582 issued December 4, 1984. This type of VRP is prepared by the reaction of a vinyl or acryloxy substituted phenol or phenol initiated polyol with at least one of the terminal isocyanate or isothiocyanate groups in a urethane oligomer formed by reaction of an excess of a difunctional isocyanate or thiocyanate with a polyol. The preferred vinyl substituted phenol for this purpose is phenol itself, substituted by an isopropenyl group. However, such other phenols as cresols ring substituted with ethenyl, allyl or isopropenyl groups are also suitable and the polyol portion of the molecule may be terminated by an NH₂ group. The most generally suitable and economic VRP s presently known of are products of 1 a diisocyanate, 2 a hydroxy or aminoalkylacrylate and 3 a polyglycol or amino capped polyglycol. In these VRP s, the alkyl portion of the hydroxy or aminoalkylacrylate may be interrupted by one or more oxygen or sulfur atoms i.e., the hydroxy substituted acrylate may be a monoacrylate of diethylene or tripropylene glycol, for example. Also, N methylol acrylamide may be employed in place of a hydroxyalkylacrylate as a source of vinyl end groups in such VRP s. In each of the several foregoing types of unsaturated adducts, the polyglycol moiety preferably is derived from a diol by base catalyzed reaction with an alkylene oxide but desirably is based on initiated with a triol such as glycerine or triethanol amine, for example , an aminoalcohol or a polyfunctional amine. Since isocyanates will react with NH, as well as with OH or SH groups, the polyglycol unit s may be amino capped and or the OH function in an end group precursor such as 2 hydroxypropyl methacrylate, for example may be replaced by an NH₂ function. A type of VRP particularly preferred for use with alkyds which include a flexibilizing moiety in their structure is one in which the polyglycol component is derived from a triol such as glycerine, for example, and an alkylene oxide such as propylene oxide, for example. Quite dramatic results have been obtained when the polyol component of the VRP and the flexibilizing moiety in the alkyd are the same. See Example 10 herein, where propoxylated glycerine was incorporated in both the alkyd and the VRP. Preferably, the VRP has at least two vinyl reactive end groups. However, this is not indispensable VRP s having only one vinyl reactive end group are considered suitable for the practice of the present invention. On the other hand, a total of three terminal vinyl groups resulting from use of a triol based polyglycol is considered advantageous. All ramifications of the VRP component are of course within the constraint that the VRP exhibit the requisite compatibility with the other components the polyester or polyester and vinyl monomer components of the cured composition of the invention. This can readily be checked for any candidate VRP, without undue experimentation, in a manner which will be apparent to those knowledgeable in the art. For the purposes of the present invention, the urethane oligomers employed have weight average molecular chain extensions, calculated as polystyrene, of less than 100Å 10 nm , preferably less than 65Å 6.5 nm . The latter values correspond, respectively, to weight average molecular weights of less than 22,000 and preferably less than 9400. A particularly preferred class of oligomers are those which have weight average molecular weights of less than 8000. Most preferred among the latter are those oligomers prepared from one molecular proportion of an about 2000 molecular weight polyglycol, about 1.7 2 molecular proportions of a monomeric diisocyanate and about 2 molecular proportions of a hydroxyalkyl acrylate or methacrylate, in either of two reaction sequences. That is, the glycol and isocyanate are reacted with each other before the acrylate is introduced or the acrylate and isocyanate are first reacted with each other and the glycol is then introduced thereby minimizing the molecular weight of the oligomer formed . A typical urethane oligomer made by pre reacting 2.4 moles of tolylene diisocyanate with 1.2 moles of polypropylene glycol mol wt. 2000 and then reacting in 2.40 mols of hydroxyethyl acrylate 2 2 1 ratio , was found to have a weight average molecular weight of 7681. When 0.8 mole of the same isocyanate was pre reacted with 0.8 mols of the same acrylate and then 0.4 mols of the same glycol reacted in, the oligomer obtained had a weight average molecule weight of 5132. A type of VRP found particularly suitable for use with internally flexibilized alkyds is one in which the polyglycol is a hydroxyalkylated triol such as propoxylated glycerine, for example. Such polyglycols have substantially higher molecular weights but the VRP s prepared from them according to the methods disclosed herein still have molecular weights well below 22,000. The vinyl terminated urethane oligomers disclosed in U.S. Patents 3,297,745 and 4,360,653 are generally suitable for use as VRP s in the present invention and may be prepared by the several methods disclosed in said patents. The latter methods are also generally applicable to the preparation of VRP s in which the terminal unsaturation is derived from a hydroxyacrylate initiated polyol or a phenol initiated polyol in which the phenol is ring substituted with an alkenyl group. See Example J herein. Preparation of VRP s by the reaction of an unsaturated isocyanate, such as isopropenyl isocyanate, allyl isothiocyanate and isocyanatoethyl methacrylate, for example, with a polyglycol is exemplified herein and does not require any procedures unfamiliar to polyurethane chemists. In preparing VRP s by the condensation of a hydroxy or aminoalkylacrylate, a diisocyanate and a polyglycol, whether the isocyanate is first reacted with the acrylate or the polyglycol is not critical. In either case, however, the reactant ratio in the initial condensation must be controlled to insure the presence of the requisite, unconverted isocyanate end groups in the intermediate product. As indicated earlier herein, the reaction sequence does effect and can be utilized to manipulate the viscosity average molecular weight of the VRP. If the isocyanate is first reacted with the hydroxyacrylate, the viscosity of the final product will be lower than when the isocyanate is first reacted with the polyol. The weight ratio of the VRP to the polyester or polyesteramide in the compositions of the invention can range from 1 100 to 3 5 i.e., from 1 to 60 parts VRP per hundred parts of the alkyd, or 1 60 phr . Except when the alkyd has incorporated in it a flexibilizing moiety as part of the alkyd molecule the VRP content should be within the range of from 1 20 phr and preferably is from 6 to 16 phr the range of from 12 to 16 phr being particularly preferred. In any case, the content of VRP is such that essentially no phasing , i.e., formation of a distinct, separate VRP phase, results when the composition is cured. When the alkyd molecule does include a flexibilizing moiety, the content of the VRP is preferably within the range of from 41 to 59 phr. The compositions of the invention preferably comprise a non resinous, vinyl reactive monomer which preferably is styrene. Other, specific such monomers, for example, are vinyl toluene, t butylstyrene, divinyl benzene and chlorostyrene. Various acrylates, as exemplified by dicyclopentadienyl acrylate, sec butyl acrylate and ethylacrylate, though less preferred, are considered suitable for the practice of the present invention. Thus, suitable vinylic monomers generally are those commonly copolymerized with polymers having terminal or pendant, vinyl reactive, olefinic or cycloolefinic double bonds. Such monomers are well catalogued in the prior art. The well known catalysts and procedures for the latter type of copolymerization are also generally applicable to curing chain extension and cross linking of the compositions of the present invention which comprise vinyl monomers. Those compositions which do not include vinylic monomers are considered novel per se and may be cured by use of the same catalysts and procedures to thermoset products. The vinyl monomer, frequently called a reactive diluent, may be employed within a wide range of concentration of from 20 to 80 percent of diluent to 80 to 20 percent of the polyester or polyesteramide from 25 to 400 phr . The optimum amount will depend in large measure on the particular alkyd, the diluent and the properties desired in the uncured and the cured states. Reactive diluents are employed principally to adjust the viscosity of a resin blend to permit its facile use in a given fabrication procedure. A coating formulation will usually require a lower viscosity than a molding formulation. When the alkyd does not include a flexibilizing group, the preferred vinyl monomer content is from about 58 to about 68 phr. When the alkyd does include a flexibilizing group, from about 130 to about 150 phr of the monomer is preferred. Other additives that are conventional in the polyester and polyesteramide art may also be included in formulations based upon these modified alkyds. Thus, fillers, pigments and other colorants, reinforcing fibers, and other additives may be added to serve their intended function. The modified polyesters and polyesteramides are curable by known catalyst systems. Peroxides, such as methylethylketone peroxides, can be used with or without known promoters, such as cobalt octoate or cobalt naphthenate, that function with such peroxides. Acyl peroxides, such as benzoyl peroxides can be used with or without promoters such as tertiary amines, including typically dimethyl aniline and N,N dimethyl p toluidine. The concentrations of catalyst and promoter are adjusted within known limits of from 0.1 to 3.0 weight percent depending on the rate of cure desired, the magnitude of the generated exotherm and for other known purposes. Known gelation retarding agents, such as p benzoquinone, can be employed in the curing system. The compositions of the present invention have properties that make them well adapted for molding, casting, pultrusion, filament winding and other known fabrication procedures. A preferred use is in fabricated parts where improved toughness is necessary yet a high degree of corrosion resistance, heat resistance and electrical insulating ability are still required. Typical of these applications are pultrusion formed, oil well sucker rods as well as molded parts for exterior automotive use or use in electrical transformer housings. The uncured compositions of the invention which do not include vinyl monomers such as styrene, for example have utility as intermediate materials which can be mixed with such monomers and cured. The following examples are for purposes of illustration and are not be construed as limiting the present invention in a manner inconsistent with the claims appended to these specifications. Those material names capitalized in the examples are registered trade names. A VRP having the statistical structure III x 34. was prepared in two steps the polyglycol was reacted with the diisocyanate, in the presence of stannous octoate, until the OH band in the infrared IR spectrum of the reaction mixture disappeared and the 2 hydroxyacrylate was then added to react out the remaining isocyanate groups. The detailed procedure follows. A 0.12 percent solution of stannous octoate 3.355 grams in 2811.12 grams 1.4056 g moles of polypropylene glycol DOW P 2000 was added over a period of about 1 3 4 hours to 488.4 grams 2.8111 g moles of toluene diisocyanate Type I, NACONATE 80 registered trade name of The Dow Chemical Company 80 20 mixture of 2,4 and 2,6 isomers in a 5 liter resin flask fitted with a reflux condenser and stirrer. The flask contents were heated from an initial temperature of 60 C to a final temperature of 70 C, during the addition. Stirring was continued at the latter temperature for another 3 4 hour, at which time the OH infrared peak had disappeared. A preformed solution of 1.815 grams of phenothiazine vinyl polymerization inhibitor in 330 grams 2.54 g moles of 2 hydroxypropyl acrylate was then added and the resulting mixture stirred at a temperature of 82 86 C for an additional 2 3 hour, at which point no further decrease in isocyanate absorption IR or increase in carbonyl absorption was observable. The product, designated herein as VRP A, had a Gardener viscosity, at 20 C, equivalent to 79,200 cps 79.2 Pa.s Acrylate diisocyanate glycol mole ratio 1.8 2 1. Maleic anhydride 7.0 moles, 686.42 grams was added to a reactor and heated to 100 C under a nitrogen atmosphere. Water 7.10 moles, 127.94 grams was added inducing a maximum exotherm of 134 C one minute later. Fifteen minutes after the initial water addition, the reactor was air cooled to 120 C and dicyclopentadiene concentrate 2.10 moles, 278.70 grams was added. The DCPD concentrate contained 0.31 percent lights, 13.64 percent cyclopentadiene codimers and diolefin dimers, and 86.05 percent DCPD. A maximum exotherm to 125 C resulted three minutes later. Air cooling reduced the reactor temperature to 120 C. A second aliquot of DCPD concentrate 2.10 moles, 278.70 grams was added fifteen minutes after the initial DCPD concentrate addition. Fifteen minutes later, a final aliquot of DCPD concentrate 2.10 moles, 278.70 grams was added and the 120 C reaction temperature was re achieved three minutes later. After thirty minutes, propylene glycol 3.78 moles, 287.66 grams and piperazine 0.420 moles, 36.18 grams were added to the reactor and the steam condenser was started, nitrogen sparging was increased to four liters per minute, and the temperature controller was set at 160 C. The 160 C temperature was reached twenty two minutes later. After two hours at 160 C, the temperature controller was set at 205 C and this temperature was achieved twenty five minutes later. After ten hours, a total of 157.5 milliliters of water layer and 46.5 milliliters of organic material had accumulated in a Dean Stark trap. The reactor contents were cooled to 168 C and 100 ppm of hydroquinone was added. The modified polyesteramide alkyd was recovered as a clear, light yellow colored solid with a final acid number of 26.4. A dicyclopentadiene modified unsaturated polyesteramide was prepared using an equimolar propylene glycol and dipropylene glycol mixture. Specifically, the reaction was performed as follows Maleic anhydride 7.0 moles, 686.42 grams was added to a reactor and heated to 100 C under a nitrogen atmosphere. Water 7.10 moles, 127.94 grams was added inducing a maximum exotherm of 134 C one minute later. Fifteen minutes after the initial water addition, the reactor was air cooled to 121 C and dicyclopentadiene concentrate 2.10 moles, 278.70 grams was added. The DCPD concentrate contained 0.31 percent lights, 13.64 percent cyclopentadiene codimers and diolefin dimers, and 86.05 percent DCPD. A maximum exotherm of 130 C resulted three minutes later. Air cooling reduced the reactor temperature to 120 C. A second aliquot of DCPD concentrate 2.10 moles, 278.70 grams was added fifteen minutes after the initial DCPD concentrate addition. Fifteen minutes later, a final aliquot of DCPD concentrate 2.10 moles, 278.70 grams was added and the 120 C reaction temperature was re achieved three minutes later. After thirty minutes, propylene glycol 1.89 moles, 143.83 grams , dipropylene glycol 1.89 moles, 253.60 grams , and piperazine 0.420 mole, 36.18 grams were added to the reactor and the steam condenser was started, nitrogen sparging was increased to four liters per minute, and the temperature controller was set at 160 C. The 160 C temperature was reached twenty eight minutes later. After two hours at 160 C, the temperature controller was set at 205 C and this temperature wan achieved thirty four minutes later. After ten hours, a total of 182 milliliters of water layer and 49.5 milliliters of organic material had accumulated in the Dean Stark trap. The reactor was cooled to 168 C and 100 ppm of hydroquinone was added. The modified polyesteramide alkyd was recovered as a clear, light yellow colored solid with a final acid number of 25.6. An uncured composition of the present invention was formulated by combining a portion of the foregoing polyesteramide C with styrene and VRP A in the relative amounts of 57.0, 35.5 and 7.5 wt. percent s, respectively. A clear solution was obtained. For comparison, formulations containing 57.0 percent alkyd and 43.0 percent styrene were made up from each of the foregoing alkyds C and D. The three resin formulations were tested to determine SPI gel and cure characteristics 84 C and Brookfield viscosity 25 C a clear, unfilled 3.2 mm casting of each formulation was made for heat distortion temperature, tensile and flexural strength, flexural modulus, percent elongation, and average Barcol hardness 934 1 scale determinations. The clear castings were prepared using a cure system of 1.0 percent benzoyl peroxide and 0.05 percent dimethylaniline at room temperature, followed by postcuring for 2.0 hours at 93 C 200 F . Mechanical properties of tensile 6 and flexural 6 test pieces were determined using an Instron machine with ASTM Test Methods O 638 and D 790. Heat distortion temperatures were determined using an Aminco Plastic Deflection Tester with ASTM test method D 678. The results are reported in Table 1. It will be seen that a dramatically greater improvement in tensile strength and percent elongation was attained with the VRP than by using mixed glycols the effect of the VRP on flexural strength was less than that of the mixed glycols but was still significant. Maleic anhydride 7.0 moles, 686.42 grams was added to a reactor and heated to 100 C under a nitrogen atmosphere. Water 7.10 moles, 127.94 grams was added inducing a maximum exotherm to 131 C three minutes later. Fifteen minutes after the initial water addition, the reactor was air cooled to 120 C and dicyclopentadiene concentrate 2.10 moles, 278.70 grams was added. The DCPD concentrate contained 0.31 percent lights, 13.64 percent cyclopentadiene codimers and diolefin dimers, and 86.05 percent DCPD. A maximum exotherm to 126 C resulted four minutes later. Air cooling reduced the reactor temperature to 120 C. A second aliquot of DCPD concentrate 2.10 moles, 278.70 grams was added fifteen minutes after the initial DCPD concentrate addition. Fifteen minutes later, a final aliquot of DCPD concentrate 2.10 moles, 278.70 grams was added and the 120 C reaction temperature was re achieved three minutes later. After thirty minutes, propylene glycol 4.20 moles, 319.62 grams , was added to the reactor and the steam condenser was started, nitrogen sparging was increased to four liters per minute, and the temperature controller was set at 160 C. The 160 C temperature was reached twenty minutes later. After two hours at 160 C, the temperature controller was set at 205 C and this temperature was achieved twenty seven minutes later. After 4.25 hours, a total of 189.5 milliliters of water layer and 60.5 milliliters of organic material had accumulated in a Dean Stark trap. The reactor was cooled to 168 C and 100 ppm of hydroquinone was added. The modified polyester alkyd was recovered as a clear, light yellow colored solid with a final acid number of 25.8. An uncured composition of the invention was formulated from the alkyd E 57.0 wt. percent , styrene 34.0 wt. percent and VRP A 9.0 wt. percent . For comparison, a formulation without the VRP component was made up from the same alkyd 57.0 wt. percent and styrene 43.0 wt. percent . The physical and mechanical properties of the two formulations were determined as in Example 1 and are reported in Table 2. Again, a dramatic improvement in tensile strength percent elongation and flexural strength will be seen to have resulted from inclusion of the VRP. Maleic anhydride 7.0 moles, 686.42 grams was added to a reactor and heated to 100 C under a nitrogen atmosphere. Water 7.10 moles, 127.94 grams was added, inducing a maximum exotherm to 135 C one minute later. Fifteen minutes after the initial water addition, the reactor was air cooled to 121 C and 98 percent dicyclopentadiene 2.10 moles, 277.64 grams was added. A maximum exotherm to 125 C resulted two minutes later. Air cooling reduced the reactor temperature to 120 C. A second aliquot of dicyclopentadiene 2.10 moles, 277.64 grams was added fifteen minutes after the initial dicyclopentadiene addition. A maximum exotherm to 127 C resulted four minutes later. Air cooling reduced the temperature of the reactor contents to 120 C. Fifteen minutes after the second dicyclopentadiene addition, a final aliquot of dicyclopentadiene 2.10 moles, 277.64 grams was added and the 120 C reaction temperature was re achieved two minutes later. After thirty minutes, propylene glycol 3.78 moles, 287.66 grams and piperazine 0.420 moles, 36.18 grams were added to the reactor and the steam condenser was started, nitrogen sparging was increased to four liters per minute, and the temperature controller was set at 160 C. The 160 C temperature was reached seventeen minutes later. After two hours at 160 C, the temperature controller was set at 205 C and this temperature was achieved twenty five minutes later. After fourteen hours, a total of 175 milliliters of water layer and 27 milliliters of organic material had accumulated in a Dean Stark trap. The reactor was cooled to 168 C and 100 ppm of hydroquinone was added. The modified polyesteramide alkyd was recovered as a clear, light yellow colored solid with a final acid number of 18.8. Portions of alkyd F were formulated with varying amounts of VRP A and styrene to provide six different, uncured compositions of the present invention. Izod impact strengths were determined on unnotched, clear, unfilled 3.2 mm castings prepared at room temperature from each formulation using a cure system of 1.0 percent benzoyl peroxide and 0.05 percent dimethylaniline and then post cured 2 hours at 93 C. Ten 6.35 x 1.27 x 0.32 cm test pieces were prepared from each casting and tested ASTM method D256 using a TMI Impact Tester No. 43 1. The compositions and impact strengths of the formulations are given in Table 3. An optimum VRP content for impact strength improvement will be noted. It will also be apparent, by extrapolation, that even as little as 1 wt. percent of the VRP would effect a substantial improvement in impact strength. A dicyclopentadiene modified, unsaturated polyesteramide resin was prepared in a 10 gallon 38 ℓ , 316 stainless steel reactor. The reactor was equipped with mechanical stirring, flowmeter controlled inlet lines and associated valving for nitrogen, water, dicyclopentadiene, propylene glycol piperazine solution, and styrene. The respective liquid reactants were metered into the reactor from individual stainless steel bombs under positive nitrogen pressure with calibrated pumps. A digital scale was used to monitor the weight loss from each bomb during pumping. Heating and cooling was provided to the reactor jacket via a recirculating pump for the heat transfer fluid. Trombone cooling coils with a water curtain system provided for rapid cooling when activated. The reactor overhead section was fitted with a manway for charging solid maleic anhydride briquettes or hydroquinone and a steam jacketed condenser. The overhead section of the steam condenser was chilled via a refrigeration unit. Liquid from the condenser accumulated in a receiver fitted with a drain valve. Product was recovered from the reactor through a gate valve into a 10 micrometre filter assembly which led to a valved drumming outlet. The following reaction stoichiometry was used The following reaction sequence was used A portion of the styrenated alkyd G was formulated with VRP A in the relative amounts of 92.5 percent and 7.5 percent, by weight, respectively, to provide an uncured composition of the present invention. A second portion of styrenated alkyd G was used as such, for comparison. The specimen cross sectional area was 0.16 cm², the tensile load was increased in 564 psi 3.89 MPa increments and the creep rate yield was about 0.0051 cm minute. Tension vs. compression yield point values psi were plotted and the plot extrapolated to give tensile and compressive yield strength values. Ductility was calculated as 1 minus the ratio of compression at break to compressive yield strength. Ductility may alternatively be calculated as the ratio of tension at break to tensile yield strength. The results are given in Table 5. A very substantial and significant improvement in ductility upon incorporation of the VRP is evident. A correspondingly tougher resin results. A mixture of 2473 grams 1.2365 gram moles of polypropylene glycol P 2000 and 1 gram of stannous octoate was added with stirring to a mixture of 330 grams 1.897 g moles of toluene diisocyanate 80 20 mixture of 2,4 and 2,6 isomers and 0.465 grams of stannous octoate and stirring was continued until the reaction was complete OH IR absorption gone . 162.5 Grams 1.25 g moles of 2 hydroxyethyl acrylate and a small amount of methylethylhydroquinone vinyl stabilizer was then stirred into the reaction mixture and allowed to react until the OH IR absorption was minimized and the urethane carbonyl absorption maximized. A small amount of toluene diisocyanate was added to react out the last of the OH and then the residual NCO was reacted out by adding about 0.5 1.0 grams of isopropanol. The resulting product, a very viscous, clear light yellow colored liquid, was then diluted with styrene to an 80 wt. percent VRP content solution, designated herein as VRP H . This example demonstrates the relatively poor toughening which results when substantial phasing out occurs during curing. 199.5 grams of alkyd F was mixed with 32.81 grams of the VRP styrene solution VRP H and with 122.69 grams of styrene to provide a 57 percent alkyd 7.5 percent VRP and 35.5 wt. percent styrene formulation. A 57 percent alkyd 43 percent styrene formulation no VRP was made up from the same alkyd F for comparison. The physical and mechanical properties of the two formulations were determined by the methods described in the in the previous examples herein. The results are given in Table 6. A small increase in tensile strength and substantial increases in elongation and impact strength may be noted. Virtually no change in heat distortion temperature occurred. It was observed that the cured formulation samples containing VRP H were opaque, indicating that at least some of the VRP had phase separated. The relatively low improvement in tensile strength experienced is believed attributable to this pronounced phasing behavior. Effective toughening requires increases in Polypropylene glycol 0.06375 mole, 127.5 grams with an average molecular weight of 2000 and containing dissolved stannous octoate 0.1105 gram and an organo tin salt commercially available from Witco Chemical Co. as Fomrez UL 28 0.1105 gram was added over a one minute period to a glass reactor containing stirred toluene diisocyanate 0.1275 mole, 22.21 grams under a nitrogen atmosphere. The toluene diisocyanate used was an 80 to 20 weight percent mixture of the 2,4 and 2,6 isomers, respectively. A maximum exotherm to 51 C occurred three minutes later then the reaction temperature was increased to 60 C. After 44 minutes at the 60 C reaction temperature, infrared spectrophotometric analysis of a film sample of the transparent reaction product demonstrated that the reaction of the isocyanate with the aliphatic hydroxyl group was complete disappearance of hydroxyl group, appearance of urethane carbonyl group . 51.19 Grams 0.1275 moles of the mono 2 hydroxyethylacrylate ether of pentapropylene glycol 1,2 was then added. The reaction temperature was maintained at 60 C and after 78 minutes, infrared spectrophotometric analysis of a film sample of the transparent reaction product demonstrated that the reaction of the remaining isocyanate groups with the aliphatic hydroxyl group was complete. Hydroquinone 100 ppm was added to the reactor and the resulting VRP designated herein as VRP I was recovered. Acrylate diisocyanate glycol mole ratio 2 2 1. The oligomer VRP I had the statistical structure VI x 34. and, by reason of the at least ten more propylene oxide units it contains, has a substantially higher molecular weight than VRP A. 199.5 Grams of alkyd F was combined with 129.25 grams of styrene and 26.25 grams of VRP I to give a 57.0 35.5 7.5 percent formulation an uncured composition of the present invention . A portion of the 57 percent alkyd 43 percent styrene formulation described in Example 5 was used for comparison. The properties of the two formulations given in Table 7 were determined by the methods described earlier herein. The increase in elongation was less than that obtained with VRP H in Example 5. However, it is interesting to note the greater increase in tensile strength and quite small decreases in HDT and Barcol hardness consequent upon inclusion of the VRP. In this case, only a very slight haziness was observed in the otherwise clear cured VRP comprising specimens. This may be attributable not only to the molecular weight increase resulting from the extra propylene oxide units vis a vis VRP A same stoichiometry but also to the effect of inserting the extra units between the acrylate and carbamate groups in the oligomer. Use of a lower proportion of VRP I than 7.5 percent might result in elimination of the haziness in the cured composition. Toluene diisocyanate 0.255 mole, 44.41 grams , p isopropenyl phenol 0.255 mole, 34.21 grams , and phenothiazine 0.055 weight percent, 0.167 grams were added to a glass reactor and maintained under a nitrogen atmosphere with stirring. The toluene diisocyanate was an 80 to 20 weight percent mixture of the 2,4 and 2,6 isomers, respectively. The p isopropenyl phenol contained less than 1.6 weight percent dimer and only a trace of residual phenol. The reactants were heated to 45 C. A catalyst package consisting of an organo tin salt commercially available from Witco Chemical Co. as FOMREZ UL 28 0.152 grams and a tertiary amine commercially available from Abbot Labs as Polycat DBU 0.152 grams was added to the stirred slurry and air cooling of the reactor exterior was started. A maximum exotherm to 82 C occurred four minutes later. Cooling reduced the temperature of the reactor contents to 60 C and this temperature was maintained for 56 minutes. At this time, infrared spectrophotometric analysis of a film sample of the transparent, pale yellow colored reaction product demonstrated that the reaction of the isocyanate with the phenolic hydroxyl was essentially complete disappearance of hydroxyl group, appearance of carbonyl group . Polypropylene glycol 0.1275 mole, 225.0 grams with an average molecular weight of 2000 was added to the reactor, followed by the addition of more catalyst, Witco FOMREZ UL 28 0.076 grams and POLYCAT DBU 0.152 grams . A maximum exotherm of 68 C occurred eleven minutes later. Cooling reduced the reaction temperature to 65 C and this reaction temperature was maintained for 3.8 hours. At this time, infrared spectrophotometric analysis of a film sample of the white colored, viscous, liquid reaction product demonstrated that the reaction of the remaining isocyanate groups with the aliphatic hydroxyl groups was complete. The reactor contents were cooled and a vinyl reactive oligomer VRP J of the following statistical formula VII was recovered where x 34. A curable composition of the present invention was prepared by blending together 199.5 grams of the modified polyester alkyd, 24.5 grams of VRP J and 126.0 grams of styrene. Cured test specimens were prepared from the latter solution 57 percent alkyl 7 percent VRP 36 percent styrene and from a 57 percent alkyl 43 percent styrene no VRP blend and tested as described in the previous examples herein. The results are given in Table 8, following. Impressive improvements in tensile strength, elongation, flexural strength, impact strength and ductility will be seen to have resulted from inclusion of the VRP. A 199.5 gram portion of the polyesteramide alkyd was mixed with 126.0 grams of styrene and 24.5 grams of VRP J to provide an uncured composition of the invention comprising 57 percent by wt. of the resin, 36 percent styrene and 7 percent of the VRP. An otherwise identical formulation, sans VRP, and containing 57 percent alkyd and 43 percent styrene was made up for comparison. The physical and mechanical properties of the two formulations were determined as described earlier herein and are given in Table 9. It will again be seen that substantial improvements in tensile strength, elongation and impact strength resulted from inclusion of the VRP. The other properties were not significantly degraded. The parts of VRP per hundred parts of resin, or phr values, corresponding to the wt. percent compositions given in the foregoing Examples are given below in Table 10. An additional class of polycycloalkenyl terminated unsaturated polyesters or polyesteramides suitable for use in the present invention is prepared from a resin oil. Resin oils are complex mixtures which contain three distinct types of components esterifiable hydrocarbon reactives including dicyclopentadiene, methyl dicyclopentadiene, indene, methyl indene, cyclopentadiene codimers, diolefin dimers and the like ethylenically unsaturated aromatic hydrocarbon reactives including styrene, vinyl toluene, allyl benzene and the like and non reactive hydrocarbons including aromatic, alkylaromatic, polyalkylaromatic hydrocarbons and the like. The resin oils which may be used herein are generally obtained as distillation cuts from hydrocarbon processing. The composition of the resin oil can vary within wide limits depending on the hydrocarbon feedstock being processed, the type of process, the distillation conditions and many other known variables. The amount of the esterifiable hydrocarbon reactives component operable in these reactions can vary from about 25 percent by weight pbw to about 95 pbw. The amount of the ethylenically unsaturated aromatic hydrocarbon reactives component can vary from about 5 pbw to about 50 pbw. The remainder is the non reactive hydrocarbon component. The new class of unsaturated polyesters or polyesteramides may be made by the previously described methods. The prehydrolysis method is most preferred wherein a 50 to 100 mole percent excess of water based on moles of maleic anhydride used is employed. In these methods, the esterifiable hydrocarbon reactives components, such as dicyclopentadiene and the like are incorporated into the unsaturated polyester or polyesteramide in the same manner as previously described herein, for example for dicyclopentadiene. This reaction occurs in the presence of the ethylenically unsaturated aromatic hydrocarbon reactives and non reactive hydrocarbon components of said resin oil. In the most preferred process of the present invention, the ethylenically unsaturated aromatic hydrocarbon reactives undergo polymerization reactions concurrently with the reaction of the esterifiable hydrocarbon reactives. However, it is operable to partially or totally polymerize the ethylenically unsaturated aromatic hydrocarbon reactives component prior to reaction of the esterifiable hydrocarbon reactives. When a resin oil is used, a substantial mount of the non reactive hydrocarbon component is removed along with the water from the reaction. Lesser amounts of non reactive hydrocarbon component remaining in the unsaturated polyester are useful for plasticization and flexibilization of the unsaturated polyester, thus resulting in improved mechanical properties. The resulting product is a hydrocarbon modified unsaturated polyester or polyesteramide alkyd containing the polymerization products of the ethylenically unsaturated aromatic hydrocarbon reactives component and, optionally, minor amounts of the non reactive hydrocarbon component. The alkyd is blended with an ethylenically unsaturated monomer as herein before described. A resin oil modified unsaturated polyesteramide resin was prepared in a 378 Lit. 316 stainless steel reactor. The reactor was equipped with mechanical stirring, flowmeter controlled inlet lines and associated valving for nitrogen, water, resin oil, ethylene glycolpiperazine solution and styrene. The resin oil used contained 63.06 percent by weight pbw esterifiable hydrocarbon reactives consisting of isoprene cyclopentadiene codimer 1.65 pbw , indene 4.03 pbw , methyl cyclopentadiene cyclopentadiene codimer 6.17 pbw , butadiene cyclopentadiene codimer 5.32 pbw and dicyclopentadiene 45.89 pbw ethylenically unsaturated aromatic hydrocarbon reactives consisting of styrene and vinyl toluenes 15.96 pbw cyclopentadiene 1.56 pbw and non reactive hydrocarbons 19.42 pbw . The respective liquid reactants were metered into the reactor from individual drums using calibrated drum pumps. A scale was used to monitor the weight loss from each drum during pumping. Heating and cooling were provided to the reactor jacket via a recirculating pump for the heat transfer fluid. Heat was provided to the heat transfer fluid reservoir via a pair of thermostated in line electric heaters. Finned cooling coils with a water curtain provided for rapid cooling when activated. The reactor overhead section was fitted with a manway for charging solid maleic anhydride briquettes or hydroquinone and a steam jacketed condensor. A chilled water condensor and knock out pot fitted with a drain valve were used to recover condensate from the steam jacketed condensor. Product was recovered from the reactor through a ram valve into a 10 micrometre filter assembly and to a valved drumming outlet. The following reaction stoichiometry and sequence were used Toluene diisocyanate 208.99 grams 1.2 moles and phenothiazine 0.31 gram were added to a reactor and maintained at 21 C under a nitrogen atmosphere with stirring. A mixture of a polypropylene ethylene glycol adduct of glycerin prepared by reaction of a 92.0 percent propylene oxide, 8.0 percent ethylene oxide mixture with glycerin to a 3000 average molecular weight 1200 grams 0.4 moles stannous octoate 0.85 grams and an oroganotin salt Dabco 33LV 0.85 gram were added over a ten minute period and so as to maintain a reaction temperate of 56 C. After completion of the addition, the reaction temperature was increased to 65 C and held for 75 minutes. At the end of this post reaction time, 2 hydroxyethyl acrylate 139.27 grams 1.20 moles was added over a one minute period. An exotherm to 73 C occurred and the reactor was then heated to 76 C and held at this temperature for 90 minutes. The product was inhibited with 0.08 gram of hydroquinone and then recovered in essentially quantitative yield. Clear, unfilled 1 8 inch 3 mm castings were prepared and evaluated as previously described using the specified blends of the Resin Oil modified unsaturated polyesteramide resin and VRP L. The following results were obtained The difference in tensile strengths for the compositions containing 0 and 4.9 weight percents of the VRP L is within the range of experimental error and is not considered significant. Inasmuch as elongation was substantially increased, however, toughening was accomplished at the 4.9 percent level. Toluene diisocyanate 1.20 moles, 208.99 grams and phenothiazine 0.02 percent by weight 0.31 gram were added to a reactor and maintained with stirring at 21 C under a nitrogen atmosphere. The toluene diisocyanate used was an 80 to 20 weight percent mixture of the 2,4 and 2,6 isomers, respectively. Polypropylene ethylene glycol adduct of glycerin prepared by reaction of a 92.0 percent propylene oxide then 8.0 percent ethylene oxide with glycerin to a 3000 average molecular weight 1.20 moles of hydroxyl groups, 1200.0 grams was mixed with stannous octoate 0.055 percent by weight, 0.85 gram and a tertiary alkyl amino catalyst Dabco 33LV 0.055 percent by weight, 0.85 gram and this mixture was added to the reactor over a 10 minute 800 s period. A maximum exotherm of 56 C was obtained at the end of the hydroxyalkylated glycerin and catalyst addition, then heating commenced and a reaction temperature of 65 C was achieved six 360 s minutes later. The reaction was allowed to progress for 75 minutes 4500 s at 65 C after which time infrared spectrophotometric analysis of a film sample of the reaction product demonstrated essentially complete reaction disappearance of hydroxyl group absorbance . At this time, 2 hydroxyethyl acrylate 1.20 moles, 139.27 grams was added to the reactor over a one minute 60 s period. A maximum exotherm of 73 C occurred, then the reactor was heated to 76 C and held at this temperature for 90 minutes 5400 s after which time infrared spectrophotometric analysis of a film sample of the reaction product demonstrated essentially complete reaction disappearance of isocyanate group absorbance . Hydroquinone 0.08 gram was added as an inhibitor and the product was recovered as a transparent, viscous liquid of the following statistical structure, corresponding to a molecular weight of 3830 A dicyclopentadiene modified unsaturated polyesteramide was prepared in a 100 gallon 380 ℓ , 316 stainless steel reactor. The reactor was equipped with mechanical stirring, flowmeter controlled inlet lines and associated valving for nitrogen, dicyclopentadiene concentrate, propylene glycol piperazine polypropoxylate of glycerin with propylene oxide 1 to 9 mole ratio solution, and styrene. The dicyclopentadiene concentrate contained 99.23 percent by weight esterifiable hydrocarbon reactives including 81.4 percent by weight dicyclopentadiene, 11.86 pbw isoprene cyclopentadiene codimer, 0.16 pbw tricyclopentadiene and 0.59 pbw methyl cyclopentadiene cyclopentadiene codimer. The respective liquid reactants were metered into the reactor from individual drums using calibrated drum pumps. A scale was used to monitor the weight loss from each drum during pumping. Heating and cooling were provided to the reactor jacket via a recirculating pump for the heat transfer fluid. Heat was provided to the heat transfer fluid reservoir via a pair of thermostatted in line electric heaters. Finned cooling coils with a water curtain provided for rapid cooling when activated. The reactor overhead section was fitted with a manway for charging solid maleic anhydride briquettes or hydroquinone and a steam jacketed condenser. A chilled water condenser and knock out pot fitted with a drain valve were used to recover condensate from the steam jacketed condenser. Product was recovered from the reactor through a ram valve into a 10 micrometre filter assembly and to a valved drumming outlet. The following reaction stoichiometry was used The following reaction sequence was used Portions of the vinyl terminated urethane oligomer from A above and portions of the dicyclopentadiene modified unsaturated polyesteramide resin from B above were blended with additional styrene to provide the following formulations Clear unfilled 1 8 inch 3 mm castings were prepared using a cure system consisting of 2 percent by wt. methyl ethyl ketone peroxide, 0.6 percent by wt. cobalt naphthenate 6 percent and 0.3 percent by wt. dimethylaniline at room temperature 25 C . The castings were post cured at 100 C for 2.0 hours, then used to prepare test pieces for evaluation of mechanical properties. The results were as follows Using a cure system of 2.25 percent by wt. methyl ethyl ketone peroxide, 0.4 percent by wt. cobalt naphthenate 6 percent and 0.2 percent by wt. dimethylaniline with formulation C provided the following results in the SPI gel test 84 C Using a cure system of 1.50 percent by wt. benzoyl peroxide and 0.5 percent by wt. dimethylaniline with formulation C provided the following results in the SPI gel test 84 C It will be seen that extraordinarily high percent elongation values resulted. The tensile strength decreased as the amount of the VRP was increased from 40.8 to 58.5 phr but was still more than adequate. Formulations VRP alkyd styrene resins of the type disclosed in this example have been found eminently suitable for inclusion in so called polymer concretes to be used in bridge surface overlays. Generally, when the alkyd is the reaction product of a dicyclopentadiene, maleic acid and, optionally, water, or b dicyclopentadiene, water, and maleic acid or a mixture therof with maleic acid, with a polyol and, optionally, a diamine, and includes a flexibilizing group derived from a polyglycol which constitutes said polyol and the polyglycol moiety in said oligomer is derived from an alkoxylated triol, the preferred amount of said oligomer is within the range of from 38 to 60 phr.