# New para substituted 3 phenoxy 1 piperidinecarbonylaminoalkylamino propanol 2 s having beta receptor blocking properties.

## Abstract
New compounds of the general formula In formula I Ar is an aromatic or heteroaromatic group, defined by the formula In the acyl group Further described are methods for preparation of such compounds, pharma ceutical preparations thereof and methods for treatment employing the same.

## Claims
1. A compound of the formula wherein R¹ is hydrogen or an acyl group wherein p is an integer 0 or 1 and R⁴ is an aliphatic, cycloaliphatic or aromatic group, optionally substituted, and or interrupted by hetero atoms, and wherein Ar is a an aromatic or heteroaromatic group as known in the art.

## Description
The present invention deals with new β receptor blocking compounds and the process for their preparation. The new compounds are aimed to be used in the treatment of hypertension, ischemic heart disease, glaucoma and other possible indications where β adrenoceptor blockers have a beneficial effect. Since the early 1960 s a vast number of β receptor blocking compounds have been developed. These compounds are often grouped into two categories of compounds, one where a degree selective activity on β₁ receptors is shown and one where activity is substantially non selective between β receptors. In both categories compounds having a more or less pronounced intrinsic sympatomimetic β stimulating activity are found as well as compounds being substantially void of such stimulating activity. Many of the thus known compounds, and in particular most of the compounds developed into approved pharma ceuticals have the common structure The object of the present invention is to obtain potent β adrenoceptor blockers characterized by a very high selectivity in affinity to peripheral β₁ adrenoceptors and a long effect duration. The invention includes both compounds with a moderate degree of intrinsic sympatomimetic activity and compounds without any receptor stimulatory effects. A highly β₁ selective blocker would be of benefit causing less degree of β₂ blockade, and thus unwanted side effects at higher doses. In some situations such as marked bradycardia and anticipated heart failure, a β₁ selective blocker with a moderate degree of partial agonist activity is believed to be therapeutically advantageous. According to the present invention it has been found that compounds of the general formula The core of the present invention is seen as residing in the provision of the side chain In the acyl group Preferred compounds of the invention are those compounds of formula I wherein X is CH and in particular those compounds wherein Ar is The compounds of formula I wherein R¹ is hydrogen have the desired affinity to peripheral β₁ adrenoceptors. Compounds wherein R¹ is an acyl group, as well as other prodrugs or bioprecursors to the compounds where R¹ is hydrogen, which may be concieved in further inventions or by applying common knowledge in the art, exert their activity after biotransformation in the living organism to compounds where R¹ is hydrogen, and may to some degree possess such activity of their own. The compounds of the invention may be employed as the bases or pharma ceutically acceptable salts thereof. Salt forming acids may be used in preparing pharmaceutically acceptable salts of the compounds. These are hydrohalogen acids, sulfuric acid, phosphoric acid, nitric acid, perchloric acid, aliphatic, alicyclic, aromatic or heterocyclic carboxy or sulfonic acids, such as formic, acetic, propionic, succinic, glycolic, lactic, malic, tartaric, citric, ascorbic, maleic, hydroxymaleic, or pyrovic acid, phenylacetic, benzoic, p aminobenzoic, anthranilic, p hydroxybenzoic, salicyclic or p amino salicyclic acid, pamoic acid, methanesulfonic, ethanesulfonic, hydroxy ethanesulfonic, ethylenesulfonic, halogenbenzenesulfonic, toluenesul fonic, napthylsulfonic, or sulfanilic acid, methionine, tryptophane, lysine or arginine. The compounds of the invention may be prepared as outlined below. For convenience, the part of formula I In the groups R The compounds of the formula I are obtained according to methods such as the following. Depending on the process conditions and the starting material the end product is obtained either in free form or in the form of its acid addition salt, which is included in the scope of the invention. Thus, for example, basic, neutral or mixed salts may be obtained as well as hemiamino, sesqui or polyhydrates. The acid addition salts of the new compounds may in a manner known These or other salts of the new compounds as e.g. picrates may serve as purifying agents for the free bases obtained as the free bases are transformed into salts, these are separated and the bases are then set free from the salts again. According to the close relationship between the new compounds in free form and in the form of their salts it will be understood from the above and the below that, if possible and unless specified otherwise, reference to the free compound should be taken as a reference to the corresponding salts as well. As the new compounds of the invention possess at least one asymmetric carbon atom, the invention includes all the possible isomers of the compounds. The new compounds may thus, depending on the choice of starting materials and process, be present as optical antipodes or racemate, or, if they contain at least two asymmetric carbon atoms, be present as an isomer mixture racemate mixture . The isomer mixtures racemate mixtures obtained may depending on physical chemical differences of the component, be separated into the both stereoisomeric diastereomeric pure racemates e.g. by means of chromatography and or fractionated crystallization. The racemates obtained can be separated according to known methods, e.g. by means of recrystallization from an optically active solvent, by means of microorganisms, or by a reaction with optically active acids forming salts of the compound and separating the salts thus obtained, e.g. by means of their different solubility in the diastereomers, from which the antipodes by the influence of a suitable agent may be set free. Suitably useable optically active acids are e.g. the L and D forms of tartaric acid, di o tolyl tartaric acid, malic acid, mandelic acid, camphersulfonic acid or quinic acid. Preferably the more active part of the two antipodes is isolated. Further one of the two enantiomers can be obtained by asymmetrical reduction of the corresponding keto compound. Suitably such starting materials are used for the methods presented above, which material leads to groups of end products primarily especial ly desired and in particular to the specifically described and preferred end products. The starting materials are known or may, if they should be new, be obtained according to processes known In clinical use the compounds of the invention are administered normally orally, rectally or by injection in the form of a pharmaceutical preparation, which contains an active component either as free base or as pharmaceutically acceptable, non toxic acid addition salts, e.g. the hydrochloride, lactate, acetate, sulphamate or the like in combina tion with a pharmaceutical carrier. The carrier may be a solid, semisolid or liquid diluent or a capsule. These pharmaceutical preparations are a further object of the invention. Usually the amount of active compound is between 0.1 to 10 by weight of the preparation, suitably between 0.5 to 20 by weight in prepara tions for injection and between 2 to 50 by weight in preparations for oral administration. In the preparation of pharmaceutical preparations containing a compound of the present invention in the form of dosage units for oral administration the compound elected may be mixed with a solid, pul verulent carrier, as e.g. with lactose, saccharose, sorbitol, mannitol, starch such as potato starch, corn starch, amylopectin, cellulose derivatives or gelatine, as well as with an antifriction agent as magnesium stearate, calcium stearate, polyethyleneglycol waxes, or the like, and be pressed into tablets. If coated tablets are wanted, the above prepared core may be coated with a concentrated solution of sugar, which solution may contain e.g. gum arabicum, gelatine, talc, titanium dioxide or the like. Furthermore, the tab lets may be coated with a lacquer dissolved in an easily volatile organic solvent or mixture of solvents. To this coating a dye may be added in order to easily distinguish between tablets with diffe rent active compounds or with different amounts of the active com pound present. In the preparation of soft gelatine capsules pearl shaped, closed capsules , which consist of gelatine and e.g. glycerine or in the preparation of similar closed capsules the active compound is mixed with a vegetable oil. Hard gelatine capsules may contain granules of the active compound in combination with a solid, pulverulent carrier as lactose, saccharose, sorbitol, mannitol, starch as e.g. potato starch, corn starch or amylopectin , cellulose derivatives or gelatine. Dosage units for rectal administration may be prepared in the form of suppositories, which contain the active substance in a mixture with a neutral fat base, or they may be prepared in the form of gelatine rectal capsules which contain the active substance in a mixture with a vegetable oil or paraffin oil. Liquid preparations for oral administration may be present in the form of sirups or suspensions, e.g. solutions containing from about 0.2 by weight to about 20 by weight of the active substance described, whereby the residue consists of sugar and a mixture of ethanol, water, glycerol and propylene glycol. If desired, such liquid preparations may contain colouring agents, flavouring agents, saccharine and carboxymethyl cellulose as a thickening agent. Solutions for parenteral administration by injection may be prepared as an aqueous solution of a water soluble pharmaceutically accept able salt of the active compound, preferably in a concentration from about 0.1 by weight to about 10 by weight. These solutions may also contain stabilizing agents and or buffering agents and may suitably be available in different dosage unit ampoules. The preparation of pharmaceutical tablets for peroral use is carried out in accordance with known methods. The daily dose of the active substance varies and is depending on the type of administration, but as a general rule it is 20 to 500 mg day at peroral administration and 10 to 200 mg day at intravenous administration. A recommended dosage for treatment of glaucoma is one drop 50 100 µl once or twice per day in an affected eye, of a sol ution containing 1 10 mg ml of active substance. The following illustrates the principle and the adaption of the invention, however, without being limited thereto. Temperature is given in degrees Celsius. Structures are shown in the appended tablets 1 3. 12.9 g of the hydrochloride N 2 aminoethyl 4 hydroxypiperidine carboxamide and 2.3 g of NaOH were stirred in ethanol 100 ml at 60 C for 1 hour. Thereafter 6.0 g of 3 4 3 cyclopropylmethoxy propyl phenoxy 1,2 epoxypropane in 50 ml of ethanol was added during 2 hours. The resulting mixture was stirred overnight at 60 C, evaporated to dryness, dissolved in CH₂Cl₂ and extracted three times with water, and evaporated to dryness. The residue was chromatographed on 320 g of silica gel 60. The column was first eluted with a CH₂Cl₂ CH₃OH 10 1 mixture and the first 600 ml was discharged. Thereafter fractions of 100 ml were collected. After 18 fractions the methanol content in the mobile phase was increased to 25 . The fractions 30 36 contained the desired product. After evaporation the residue was recrystallized from acetonitrile. Yield 2.5 g. Melting point 89 C base . The structure was confirmed using NMR analysis. 12.77 g of the hydrochloride of N 2 aminoethyl 4 hydroxypiperidine carboxamide and 2.28 g of NaOH were stirred in ethanol 150 ml for 4 hours. Thereafter 5.1 g of 3 4 2 cyclobutylmethoxy ethyl phenoxy 1,2 epoxypropane was added. The mixture was stirred at 50 C for 3 days, filtered, evaporated, and chromatographed on silica using methanol methylene chloride as the mobil phase. At the end pure methanol was used. Yield 2.54 g. Melting point 92 C base . The structure was confirmed using NMR analysis. 7.6 g of the hydrochloride of N 2 aminoethyl 4 hydroxypiperidinecar boxamide and 1.36 g of NaOH were stirred in ethanol for 1 hour at 60 C. Thereafter 4.0 g of 3 4 2 2 2 methylpropoxy ethoxy ethyl phenoxy 1,2 epoxypropane in 40 ml of ethanol was added during 3 hours. The resulting mixture was stirred at 60 C for 11 hours, eva porated, dissolved in CH₂Cl₂, washed three times with water, dried over N₂SO₄, filtered and evaporated. The residue was chromatogra phed on 320 g of silica gel 60. The column was first eluted with 1 l of 20 CH₃OH in CH₂Cl₂ and thereafter with 1 l of 40 CH₃OH in CH₂Cl₂ the following 1.4 l was collected and evaporated. The residue chrystallized when treated with diisopropyl ether. Yield 2.3 g. Melting point 81 C base . The structure was confirmed using NMR analysis. 11.2 g of the hydrochloride of N 2 aminoethyl 4 hydroxypiperidine carboxamide and 2 g of NaOH were stirred in isopropanol 100 ml for 1 h at 50 C. Thereafter 5.0 g of 3 4 2 2 methylpropoxy ethyl phenoxy 1,2 epoxypropane in 50 ml of isopropanol was added during 2 hours. The resulting mixture was stirred at 50 C over night, eva porated, dissolved in 2N hydrochloric acid, and extracted with ether. The aqueous layer was extracted three times with CH₂Cl₂, and this organic phase was treated with 10N NaOH, washed with water, dried over Na₂SO₄, filtered and evaporated. The residue was chromatogra phed on 320 g of silica gel 60 according to the procedure of example 3. Yield 1 g. Melting point 94 C base . The structure was confirmed using NMR analysis. 5.2 g of N benzyl N 2 2 hydroxy 3 4 2 cyclopropylmethoxy ethoxy phenoxy propyl amino ethyl phenoxycarboxamide and 1.4 g of 4 hydroxypiperidine in 75 ml of toluene was stirred at 80 C for 45 hours. The reaction mixture was extracted twice with diluted NaOH and washed with water, dried over Na₂SO₄, filtered and evapora ted. The residue was dissolved in 150 ml of ethanol and after adding the catalyst Pd C the mixture was hydrogenated for 2 hours 250 ml H₂ . The reaction mixture was filtered and evaporated. The residue was chromatographed in the usual way using silica and a CH₃OH, CH₂Cl₂ mixture. After evaporation of the solvents the residue was crystallized from a isopropyl ether methanol mixture 4 1 . Yield 1.42 g. Melting point 86 C base . The structure was confirmed using NMR analysis. 10.0 g of N benzyl N 2 2 hydroxy 3 4 2 2 methylpropoxy ethoxy phenoxy propyl amino ethyl phenoxycarboxamide and 2.1 g of 4 hydroxypiperidine in 100 ml of toluene was allowed to react at 100 C for 8 hours. The mixture was thereafter dissolved in CH₂Cl₂ and extracted 2 times with 2M NaOH, washed with water, dried and evaporated. The residue was treated with charchoal, filtered and hydrogenated over 5 Pd C in 300 ml ethanol. After consuming 540 ml of H₂ gas, the solution was filtered and evaporated. The residue was dissolved in a mixture of isopropanol and ethanol 3 1 and after filtration the product crystallized. The product was filtered off. Yield 6.3 g. Melting point 101 C base . The structure was confirmed using NMR analysis. 1.47 g of the hydrochloride of N 2 aminoethyl 4 hydroxypiperidine carboxamide was refluxed in 15 ml of ethanol until clear solution. Thereafter 0.45 ml of 15M NaOH solution was added. Thereafter 1.26 g of 3 4 2 cyclopropylmethoxy ethoxy phenoxy S 2 hydroxypropyl methanesulfonate in 15 ml of ethanol was added. The reaction mixture was allowed to react for 2 days at 45 C. The mixture was thereafter filtered, evaporated and dissolved in H₂O and extracted with CH₂Cl₂ at pH 10. The organic layer was thereafter extracted with water at pH 3 H₂SO₄ and the water phase was extracted with ethyl acetate. The water phase was based to pH 10 and extracted with methylene chloride, washed with water, dried, filtered and evaporated. Yield 0.7 g. Melting point 83 C. The structure was confirmed using NMR analysis. 8.47 g of the hydrochloride of N 2 aminoethyl 4 hydroxypiperidine carboxamide and 1.516 g of NaOH were stirred in 200 ml of ethanol for 3 hours. 3.9 g of 3 4 carbamoylmethyl phenoxy 1,2 epoxypropane was added and the resulting mixture was allowed to react at 50 55 C for 3 days. The resulting mixture was filtered and evaporated. The residue was chromatographed in the usual way on silica with metha nol methylene chloride as the mobil phase at the end pure methanol was used as the mobile phase. After evaporating of the solvents, the residue was crystallized from ether. Yield 1.0 g. Melting point 105 C. The structure was confirmed using NMR analysis. 2.08 g of N benzyl N 2 aminoethyl 3 4 2 2 2 methylpropoxy ethoxy ethyl phenoxy 2 hydroxypropylamine, 1.17 g of 4 2 methylpropanoyloxy piperidinecarbonyl chloride, and 1.7 g of potasium carbonate were allowed to react in 30 ml of methylene chloride for 2 days. The mixture was worked up in the usual way and chromatographed on an Altex column 2.5 x 50 cm in portions of 1.5 g. The mobile phase was 2.5 methanol in methylene chloride. 1.26 g of pure product was dissolved in 50 ml of ethanol and hydrogenated Pd C . The mixture was thereafter filtered and evaporated. The residue was recrystallized from a mixture of ethyl acetate and isopropanol 1 1 . Yield 0.61 g. Melting point 113 C. 10 g of N Benzyl N 2 2 hydroxy 3 4 2 methylpropoxy ethoxy phenoxy propyl amino ethyl 4 hydroxypiperidinecarboxamide in 100 ml of CH₂Cl₂ and 2.96 ml of pyridine was refluxed and 3.45 g of phenoxy ethanoyl chloride in 25 ml of CH₂Cl₂ was added during 15 min. The reaction mixture was left under reflux for 1 hour. Thereafter it was washed three times with diluted sulfuric acid and thereafter two times with diluted Na₂CO₃ solution. The organic layer was dried, filtered and evaporated. The residue was chromatographed on silica using CH₂Cl₂ containing 2 4 CH₃OH as the mobile phase. Yield 5.2 g. This product was dissolved in ethanol, treated with charcoal, filtered and hydro genated over Pd C. The substance consumed 190 ml of H₂. The mixture was filtered and evaporated. The residue was thereafter chrystallized from a mixture of isopropanol and ethanol 4 1 . Yield 2.6 g. Melting point 87 C. The structure was confirmed using NMR analysis. The title compound was prepared in accordance with Ex 10 above using phenyl chloroformate. Yield 0.5 g from 5.2 g starting material and 1.72 g phenyl chloroformate . Melting point 92 C base . The structure was confirmed using NMR analysis. The title compound was prepared in accordance with example 10 above using 6.5 g of the benzyl protected starting material and 2.22 g of 3 phenylpropanoyl chloride as starting materials. Yield 0.5 g. Melting point 87 C base . The structure was confirmed using NMR analysis. The title compound was prepared in accordance with example 10 above using 11.1 g of the benzyl protected starting material and 2.14 ml of ethyl chloroformiat as starting materials. Yield 2.0 g. Melting point 87 C base . The structure was confirmed using NMR analysis. The title compound was prepared in accordance with example 10 above using 7.25 g of the benzyl protected starting material and 1.56 g of butanoyl chloride as starting materials. Yield 1.2 g. Melting point 81 C base . The structure was confirmed using NMR analysis. The title compound was prepared in accordance with example 10 above using 4.0 g of the benzyl protected starting material and 1.12 ml of hexanoyl chloride as starting materials. Yield 1.5 g. Melting point 81 C base . The structure was confirmed using NMR analysis. The title compound was prepared in accordance with example 2 above. Reaction time 12 h at 60 C. Yield 3.9 g 52 of an oily product. n 1.5372. The structure was confirmed using NMR analysis. The title compound was prepared according to example 16 above. The product was chrystallized from diisopropyl ether containing 20 acetonitrile. Yield 1.5 g 18.8 . Melting point 76 C base . The structure was confirmed using NMR analysis. 18.6 g of the hydrochloride of N 2 aminoethyl 4 hydroxypiperidine carboxamide and 3.0 g of NaOH were stirred in ethanol 200 ml for 3 h at 40 C. Thereafter 8.97 g of 3 4 2 2 cyclobutylmethoxy ethoxy ethyl phenoxy 1,2 epoxy propane in 50 ml of ethanol was added. The mixture was stirred for 3 days at 45 C. Thereafter it was filtered, evaporated, and dissolved in chloroform. The organic layer was thereafter washed trice with water, dried, and evaporated. The residue was recrystallized from ethyl acetate petroleum spirit 40 60. Yield 5.7 g. Melting point 76 C base . The structure was confirmed using NMR analysis. 2.6 g of N benzyl N 2 aminoethyl 1 4 2 2 methylpropoxy ethoxy phenoxy 3 aminopropan R 2 ol and 1.6 g of 4 benzyloxypiperidine carbonyl chloride was left standing in 25 ml of methylene chloride and 2 ml of triethyl amine overnight at room temperature. The organic phase was washed with dilute NaOH, dried, filtered, and evaporated. Yield 3.9 g of an oily product, which was dissolved in ethanol and 2M HCl to pH 1 . Pd C was added and the mixture was hydrogenated, filtered, and evaporated. The residue was treated with 2M NaOH and extracted with methylene chloride, filtered, and evaporated. The mixture was crystallized from a 1 1 mixture of ethyl acetate and diisopropylether. The crystals were purified by dissolving in 1M HCl, washed twice with ether, made alkaline with 10M NaOH. The chrystals were filtered off, washed with water, and dried. Yield 1.29 g. Melting point 93 C base . The structure was confirmed using NMR analysis. The title compound was prepared according to example 19 above. The product was crystallized from ethyl acetate. Yield 6.5 g 72 . Melting point 94 C. The structure was confirmed using NMR analysis. 7.0 g of the hydrochloride of N 2 aminoethyl 4 hydroxypiperidine carboxamide and 1.2 g of NaOH were stirred in ethanol for 2 hours at room temperature. Thereafter 3.1 g of 3 4 2 methoxyethyl phenoxy 1,2 epoxypropane in 30 ml of ethanol was added. The mixture was stirred over night at 60 C, filtered, and evaporated. The residue was dissolved in ethyl acetate and extracted with 2M HCl. The aqueous phase was washed with ethyl acetate. There after the aqueous phase was taken to pH 7.5 and extracted with CHCl₃. Thereafter the pH was highered to 10, and the aqueous phase again extracted with CHCl₃. This procedure was repeated three times. The combined chloroform phase was thereafter evaporated. The residue was recrystallized from toluene. Yield 1.5 g. Melting point 74 C base . The structure was confirmed using NMR analysis. The title compound was prepared according to example 2 above. Reaction time 6 h at 60 C. The product was crystallized from acetonitrile containing 0.5 of methanol. Yield 2.0 g 25 . Melting point 110 C base . The structure was confirmed using NMR analysis. The title compound was prepared according to, and on the same scale that example 2 above. Yield 2.7 g of an oily product. n 1.5545. The structure was confirmed using NMR analysis. 8.33 g of N benzyl N 2 aminoethyl 1 4 2 methylpropoxy ethoxy phenoxy 3 aminopropan S 2 ol and 4.67 g of 4 1 methylethylcarbonyloxy piperidine carbonyl chloride, and 5.53 g of K₂CO₃ were stirred in 50 ml of methylene chloride for 2 days at room temperature. The reaction mixture was washed twice with water and evaporated. The residue was chromatographed on 800 g of silica gel. Yield 8.05 g. 3.22 g of this product was dissolved in 125 ml of ethanol and hydrogenated over 10 Pd C. 155 ml of hydrogen was consumed. The mixture was filtered, evaporated, and the residue chrystallized twice from ethyl acetate. Yield 1.63 g. Melting point 84 C. The structure was confirmed using NMR analysis. The title compound was prepared according to example 18 above. The product was crystallized from acetonitrile. Yield 1.4 g 19.5 . Melting point 75 C. The structure was confirmed using NMR analysis. The title compound was prepared according to example 18 above using 22.4 g of the hydrochloride of N 2 aminoethyl 4 hydroxypiperidinecarbox amide, 4 g of NaOH, and 11.1 g of 3 4 2 cyclopropylmethoxy ethyl phenoxy 1,2 epoxypropane. The product was recrystallized from ethyl acetate. yield 4 g. Melting point 72 C. The structure was confirmed using NMR analysis. The title compound was prepared according to example 22 above. The product was crystallized from diisopropyl ether containing 25 acetonitrile. Yield 1.5 g 15.3 . Melting point 72 C. The structure was confirmed using NMR analysis. The title compound was prepared according to example 2 above. Yield 1.0 g 6 . Melting point 94 C. The structure was confirmed using NMR analysis. The title compound was prepared according to example 2 above. Yield 3 g 43 , crystallized from ether. Melting point 117 C. The struc ture was confirmed using NMR analysis. The title compound was prepared in accordance with example 9 above using N benzyl N 2 aminoethyl 3 4 2 2 cyclopropylmethoxy ethoxy ethyl phenoxy 2 S hydroxypropylamine 4.2 g and 4 cyclohexylcar bonyloxypiperidinecarbonyl chloride 2.1 g as starting materials. Yield 2.9 g of a yellow oil. ¹HNMR 500 MHz, CDCl₃ . δ7.1 2H, 6.8 2H, 5.5 1H, 4.9 1H, 4.1 1H, 3.9 2H, 3.6 8H, 3.3 4H, 3.2 3H, 2.8 7H, 2.3 1H, 1.9 2H, 1.8 2H, 1.7 2H, 1.6 3H, 1.4 2H, 1.25 3H, 1.05 1H, 0.5 2H, 0.2 2H. The title compound was prepared according to Example 9 above using N benzyl N 2 aminoethyl 3 4 2 2 cyclopropylmethoxy ethoxy ethyl phenoxy 2 S hydroxypropylamine 5.0 g and 4 2,2 dimethylpropiony loxy piperidinecarbonyl chloride 2.8 g as starting materials. Yield 3.0 g of a yellow oil. ¹HNMR 500 MHz, CDCl₃ δ7.1 2H, 6.8 2H, 5.35 1H, 4.85 1H, 4.05 1H, 3.9 2H, 3.6 6H, 3.5 2H, 3.25 6H, 3.2 6H, 1.8 2H, 1.6 2H, 1.15 9H, 1.05 1H, 0.5 2H, 0.2 2H. The title compound was prepared in accordance with Example 9 above using N benzyl N 2 aminoethyl 3 4 2 2 cyclopropylmethoxy ethoxy ethyl phenoxy 2 S hydroxypropylamine 4.4 g and 4 benzylcarbo nyloxypiperidinecarbonyl chloride 2.8 g as starting materials. Yield 2.6 g of a yellow oil. ¹HNMR CDCl₃, 500 MHz δ7.3 2H, 7.25 3H, 7.1 2H, 6.8 2H, 5.55 1H, 4.9 1H, 4.1 1H, 3.9 2H, 3.6 8H, 3.5 3H, 3.3 4H, 3.15 2H, 2.8 3H, 2.75 3H, 1.75 2H, 1.55 2H, 1.05 1H, 0.5 2H, 0.2 2H. 2.5 g of N 2 aminoethyl 3 4 2 2 cyclopropylmethoxy ethoxy ethyl phenoxy S 2 hydroxypropylamine, 25 ml of dry THF and 0.92 g of diisopropylethylamine was mixed and 2.39 g of 4 2,3 dichlorophenylcarbonyloxy piperidinecarbonyl chloride was added in portions during stirring. The mixture was evaporated after 3 h of reaction time. The residue was dissolved in a 1 1 mixture of methylene chloride and ether and washed with water, dried over Na₂SO₄, filtered and evaporated to dry ness. The synthesis was repeated and the combined residues were chroma tographed on SiO₂ and CH₂Cl₂ MeOH 9 1 as the mobile phase. Yield 0.9 g. ¹HNMR CDC1₃, 500 MHz, HC1 salt δ7.6 2H, 7.25 1H, 7.05 2H, 6.8 2H, 6.65 1H, 5.2 1H, 4.55 1H, 4.05 1H, 3.95 1H, 3.7 4H, 3.6 6H, 3.4 3H, 3.3 6H, 2.8 2H, 1.95 2H, 1.8 2H, 1.05 1H, 0.55 2H, 0.2 2H. The title compound was prepared in accordance with Example 5 above using N benzyl N 2 S 2 hydroxy 3 4 2 cyclopropylmethoxy ethoxy phenoxy propyl amino ethyl phenoxycarboxamide 13.0 g and 4 hydroxypiperidine 3.27 g as starting materials. Yield 3.1 g. Mel ting point 77 78 C. The structure was confirmed using NMR analysis. The title compound was prepared according to Example 9 above using N benzyl N 2 aminoethyl 3 4 2 2 cyclopropylmethoxy ethoxy ethyl phenoxy 2 S hydroxypropylamine 4.5 g and 4 hexanoyloxypiperidine carbonyl chloride 2.64 g as starting materials. Yield 3.1 g. Melting point 25 30 C. ¹HNMR 500 MHz, CDCl₃ δ7.1 2H, 6.8 2H, 5.25 1H, 4.9 1H, 4.1 1H, 3.95 2H, 3.6 8H, 3.35 2H, 3.3 2H, 3.2 2H, 2.85 8H, 2.3 2H, 1.85 2H, 1.6 4H, 1.3 4H, 1.1 1H, 0.9 3H, 0.5 2H, 0.2 2H. The title compound was prepared according to Example 9 above using N benzyl N 2 aminoethyl 3 4 2 2 cyclopropylmethoxy ethoxy ethyl phenoxy 2 S hydroxypropylamine 5 g and 4 2 methylpropionyloxy piperidinecarbonyl chloride 2.6 g as starting materials. Yield 2.4 g. ¹HNMR CDCl₃, 500 MHz δ7.1 2H, 6.8 2H, 6.25 1H, 4.9 1H, 4.0 2H, 3.65 10H, 3.3 4H, 3.15 4H, 2.8 2H, 2.5 1H, 1.85 2H, 1.65 2H, 1.15 6H, 0.9 1H, 0.55 2H, 0.2 2H. An injection solution was prepared by dissolving 1 Piperidinecarbox amide, 4 hydroxy N 2 2 hydroxy 3 4 3 cyclopropylmethoxy propyl phenoxy propyl amino ethyl hydrochloride 0.1 g , sodium chloride 0.8 g and ascorbic acid 0.1 g in a sufficient amount of distilled water to give 100 ml of solution. This solution, which contains 1 mg of active substance per each ml, was used in filling ampoules, which were sterilized. A sirup containing 2 weight per volume of active substance was prepared from the following ingredients 2 Methylpropanoic acid, 1 2 2 hydroxy 3 4 2 2 methylpropoxy ethoxy phenoxy propyl amino ethyl amino carbonyl 4 piperidinyl ester hydrochloride 250 g was mixed with lactose 175.8 g , potato starch 169.7 g and colloidal silicic acid 32 g . The mixture was moistened with 10 solution of gelatine and was granulated through a 12 mesh sieve. After drying potato starch 160 g , talc 50 g and magnesium stearate 5 g were admixed and the mixture thus obtained was pressed into tablets 10 000 which contain 25 mg of substance. The tablets are sold on the market provided with a breaking score to give another dose than 25 mg or to give multiples thereof when broken. Granules were prepared from 2 methylpropanoic acid, 1 2 2 hydroxy 3 4 2 2 methylpropoxy ethoxy phenoxy propyl amino ethyl amino carbonyl 4 piperidinyl ester hydrochloride 250 g , lactose 175.9 g and an alcoholic solution of polyvinylpyrrolidone 25 g . After the drying step the granules were mixed with talc 25 g , potato starch 40 g and magnesium stearate 2.50 g and was pressed into 10 000 tablets being biconvex. These tablets are primarily coated with a 10 alcoholic solution of shellac and thereupon with an aqueous solution containing saccharose 45 , gum arabicum 5 , gelatine 4 and dyestuff 0.2 . Talc and powder sugar were used for powder ing after the first five coatings. The coating was then coated with a 66 sugar sirup and polished with a 10 carnauba wax solution in carbon tetrachloride. An eye drop solution may be prepared having the following composition An eye drop solution may be prepared having the following composition