# 4,7 Dihydrothieno 2,3 b pyridine derivatives, process thereof, and agents for cardiovascular diseases

## Claims
4,7 Dihydrothieno 2,3 b pyridinderivat der Formel

## Description
The compounds provided by the present invention are classified into a group of calcium channel blockers hereinafter referred to as Ca blockers , and have potent antihypertensive and coronary vasodilating actions which last for hours. These compounds are useful in the treatment of cardiovascular diseases such as angina pectoris, hypertension, cerebrovascular dysfunction, arrhythmia and have the advantage that they have no systole inhibitory action as an adverse reaction usually seen in the use of the analogous known compounds. Compounds having Ca blocking effect have commonly been used in the treatment of cardiovascular diseases such as angina pectoris, hypertension, cerebrovascular dysfunction, arrhythmia and have become well known because of their high efficacy. In particular, a series of 1,4 dihydropyridine derivatives have been extensively researched and developed as Ca blocker. Examples of useful Ca blockers are Nifedipine U.S. Patent Nos. 3,485,847 and 3,644,627 , Nisoldipine Japanese Patent Publication No. 56 47185 , 2 amino 1,4 dihydropyridine derivatives JPN Pat. Pub. No. 57 20306 , Nicardipine JPN Unexam. Pat. Pub. No. 49 109384 , some Examples of 1,4 Dihydrochinoline derivatives, the production thereof and their antihypertensive and coronary vasodilating actions are disclosed in DE A 2310746. Some examples of pyrazolodihydropyridine derivatives, the production thereof and their Ca blocking action are disclosed in JPN Unexam. Pat. Pub. No. 59 118786 and in JPN Unexam. Pat. Pub. No. 59 65089 and GB A 2146326 and EP A 157260 by the present inventors. The present invention relates to 4,7 dihydrothieno 2,3 b pyridine derivatives, the process for production thereof, and agents for cardiovascular diseases. In more particular, it provides 4,7 dihydrothieno 2,3 b pyridine derivatives of the formula wherein R¹ is straight or branched chain C₁ C₄ alkyl, C₁ C₄ alkoxy C₁ C₄ alkyl or optionally mono or di halogen or C₁ C₄ alkoxy substituted phenyl C₁ C₅ alkyl R² is hydrogen, straight or branched chain C₁ C₄ alkyl, or C₁ C₄ alkoxycarbonyl R³ is hydrogen, straight or branched chain C₁ C₄ alkyl, phenyl which may be substituted by one or more halogens or C₁ C₄ alkoxy groups, optionally C₁ C₅ alkyl substituted C₃ C₇ cycloalkyl, or optionally C₁ C₄ alkyl substituted C₃ C₇ cycloalkyl C₁ C₄ alkyl or R² and R³ taken together may form an alkylene of the formula CH₂ wherein R¹, R², R³ each is the same as above, wherein R¹ is the same as above, wherein R¹ and R² each is the same as above and wherein R¹, R², and R³ each is the same as above. The objective compounds I of this invention are prepared through the Michael addition between heterocyclic amines and α , β unsaturated ketones accompanied by cyclization reaction. As mentioned above, many Ca blocking agents are widely used in the treatment of cardiovascular diseases but highly safe and long acting ones have not been launched in market. Such a compound, therefore, has long been desired. Preferred Embodiment of the Invention In this invention, the straight or branched chain C₁ C₄ alkyl includes, for example, methyl, ethyl, n propyl, i propyl, n butyl, i butyl, s butyl, and t butyl the C₁ C₄ alkoxy C₁ C₄ alkyl means C₁ C₄ alkyl substituted by C₁ C₄ alkyloxy and includes, for example, methoxymethyl, ethoxymethyl, methoxyethyl, ethoxyethyl, propoxyethyl, i propoxyethyl, butoxyethyl, t butoxyethyl, methoxypropyl, ethoxypropyl, propoxypropyl, t butoxypropyl, methoxybutyl, i butoxybutyl. C₁ C₄ alkoxycarbonyl means carbonyl substituted by a C₁ C₄ alkoxy and includes, for example, methoxycarbonyl, ethoxycarbonyl, propoxycarbonyl, i propoxycarbonyl, butoxycarbonyl, t butoxycarbonyl. Phenyl which may be substituted by one or more halogen or C₁ C₄ alkoxy groups means phenyl which may be substituted by one or two halogens or C₁ C₄ alkoxys wherein halogen includes fluorine, chlorine, and bromine and C₁ C₄ alkoxy includes methoxy, ethoxy they may be the same or different each other. Optionally C₁ C₅ alkyl substituted C₃ C₇ cycloalkyl means C₃ C₇ cycloalkyl substituted or unsubstituted by, for example, C₁ C₅ alkyl such as methyl, ethyl, propyl, butyl, and pentyl. It includes cyclobutyl, cyclopentyl, cycohexyl, 2 i propyl 4 methylcyclohexyl. In the word optionally C₁ C₄ alkyl substituted C₃ C₇ cycloalkyl C₁ C₄ alkyl , C₃ C₇ cycloalkyl C₁ C₄ alkyl means C₁ C₄ all substituted by C₃ C₇ cycloalkyl wherein C₃ C₇ cycloalkyl includes cyclopropyl, cyclobutyl, cyclopentyl, cyclohexyl, and cycloheptyl and C₁ C₄ alkyl includes methyl, ethyl, propyl, butyl. Alkylene means alkylene of the formula The compound I of the present invention can readily be produced by the reaction of an α , β unsaturated ketone reagent II with a 5 aminothiophene III , as shown in the following scheme wherein R¹, R², and R³ each is the same as defined above. This reaction may be carried out in the presence or absence of any solvent. As a solvent used in the reaction, the followings are exemplified alcohols such as methanol, ethanol, isopropanol, tert butanol, ethylene glycol An acid or organic base may be employed if necessary. The acid includes, for example, inorganic acids such as sulfuric acid, hydrochloric acid, and phosphoric acid organic acids such as paratoluenesulfonic acid, acetic acid, and formic acid and Lewis acids such as boron trifluoride, zinc chloride, aluminium chloride, magnesium chloride, and tin chloride. The organic base includes, for example, triethylamine, pyridine, pyrrolidine, piperidine. One of the starting materials, an α , β unsaturated ketone reagent II employed in the reaction is known and can be prepared according to the manner disclosed in the JPN Unexam. Pat. Pub. No. 59 65089. The other 5 aminothiophenes II can be prepared according to the reaction sequence as shown below. Each step in the reaction sequence may be performed under the conditions of the following disclosures Typical compounds of this invention which are prepared from the starting materials, α , β unsaturated ketone reagents II and 5 aminothiophenes III in the aforementioned manner are shown below. Methyl 4,7 dihydro 6 methyl 4 3 nitrophenyl 3 phenylthieno 2,3 b pyridine 5 carboxylate, The compounds of the present invention are characterized by showing excellent antihypertensive and coronary vasodilating effects dependent on their Ca blocking action with no systole inhibitory action which is one of the adverse reactions regarded as defect of the conventional Ca blockers. The biological tests on the following compounds were performed in the manner as explained below. Numbers by which the compounds are identified correspond to Example numbers. Female Spontaneously Hypertensive Rats hereinafter referred to as SHR with 21.33 x 10³ Pa 160 mmHg of systolic pressure were employed without anaesthetization. The systolic pressure after SHRs were warmed at 50 C for 2 3 minutes was bloodlessly measured by the tail cuff method Japan J. Pharmacol., Guinea pigs with 400 800g of body weight were strongly hit on their heads and the cartoid artery of each Guinea pigs was cut down in order to make them bloodless. The heart was isolated and perfused with at a constant pressure 4.9 x 10³ Pa by the Langendorff method Basic Pharmacology Therapeutics, Antihypertensive action is shown in a maximal decrease of blood pressure, Coronary vasodilating action is shown in changes of the quantity of the perfusate, and the duration of the action is shown in the time during which the increase over 20 in the quantity of the perfusate was observed. Since the compounds of this invention, as clearly seen from the above listed results, show the high antihypertensive and coronary vasodilating actions, they can be used in human or animals as cardiovascular agents with lesser adverse reactions. The compounds of this invention can be orally or parenterally administered to human or animals and formed into various type of formulations in compliance with the usage. They, for instance, can be tablets, capsules, pills, granules, fine granules, aqueous solutions, emulsions. In the course of the formulation, conventional carriers or diluents such as lactose, sucrose, starch, cellulose, talc, magnesium stearate, magnesium oxide, calcium sulfate, powdered gum arabic, gelatin, sodium alginate, sodium benzoate, stearic acid are employed. Injections may be used in a form of a solution in distilled water, saline, Ringer s solution, or a suspension in sesame oil. The compounds of this invention may be administered to an adult orally at a dose of about 1 50 mg a day, or intravenously at about 0.5 20 mg a day. In 10 ml of t butanol are dissolved 1.42 g 5.71 mmol of methyl 3 nitrobenzylideneacetoacetate 2 and 1.0 g 5.71 mmol of 5 amino 3 phenylthiophene 3 and the solution is stirred at 80 C for 4 hours. The reaction mixture is then evaporated to give a residue, which is chromatographed on a silica gel column with benzene ethyl acetate 9 1 as an eluent to give 0.254 g yield 10.9 of the titled compound 1 . This is recrystallized from methanol to give yellow plates, mp. 213 215 C. In the sequence, tBu represents tertiary butyl. A solution of 0.18 g 0.73 mmol of methyl 3 nitrobenzylideneacetoacetate 2 and 0.20 g 0.73 mmol of t butyl 5 amino 3 phenylthiophene 2 carboxylate 3 dissolved in 2 ml of t butanol is degassed and stirred at 90 C for 95 hours under nitrogen atmosphere, then evaporated to give a residue. The residue is chromatographed on a silica gel column to give 33 mg yield 11.1 of the Schiff s base 1 as an ethylene chloride fraction and subsequently 0.268 g yield 73.4 , yellow amorphous of 2 t butoxycarbonyl derivative 1 of the objective compound 1 as a methylene chloride acetonitrile 9 1 fraction. A solution of 0.268 g 0.53 mmol of the derivative 1 dissolved in 2 ml of trifluoroacetic acid is stirred at 20 C for about an hour and evaporated In the sequence, R¹, R², and R³ each is the same as above. In a solvent are dissolved compounds II and III and the solution is, if required under nitrogen atmosphere, allowed to react at room temperature or under heating. The reaction mixture is evaporated In the sequence, R¹, R², and R³ each is the same as above. In a solvent are dissolved compounds II and III and the solution is, under nitrogen atmosphere, allowed to react at room temperature or under heating. The reaction mixture is evaporated Compounds of the present invention can be prepared according to the method A or B. The compounds of the present invention prepared in Examples 1 27 and details of the reaction conditions are shown in Tables 2 and 3, respectively. Further, Table 4 shows recrystallization solvents for the products or the acid addition salts, and appearance crystal form, color , molecular formulae, and the elementary analysis data of the compounds and Table 5 shows IR and NMR data on each compound. Wherein tBu is the same as defined above, and Et represents ethyl. A mixture of 3.28 g 14.9 mmol of t butyl benzoylacetate 4 , 1.3 g 15.3 mmol of cyanoacetic acid, and 0.3 g of ammonium acetate with 0.1 ml of piperidine and 15 ml of t butanol is refluxed under heating for 110 hours. The rection mixture is evaporated to leave a residue, which is dissolved in ethyl ether, washed with To a suspension of 1.48 g 6.1 mmol of the compound 5 and 0.2 g 6.1 mmol of sulfur in 5 ml of ethanol is dropwise added 1 ml of diethylamine while being stirred at room temperature, and the reaction mixture is further stirred overnight. The mixture is evaporated to leave a residue, which is chromatographed on a silica gel column with methylene chloride as an eluent to give 1.03 g yield 61.3 of the titled compound 3 , mp. 110 116 C. A solution of a compound IV and cyanoacetic acid dissolved in a solvent is reacted at room temperature or under beating to give a compound V . To a suspension or a solution of the compound V and sulfur in a solvent is added diethylamine, and the mixture is stirred. The mixture is evaporated to leave a reidue, which is either chromatographed on a silica gel column or crystallized from a solvent to give the objective compound III . This may be employed in the next reaction step without purification. According to the general procedure as above, the following starting materials Reference Preparations 2 9 are obtained Table 6 . To a suspension of 17.0 g 0.15 mol of ethyl cyanoacetate and 4.8 g 0.15 mol of sulfur in 17 ml dimethylformamide DMF is dropwise added 12 ml of triethylamine while being stirred at room temperature. 12.9 g 0.15 mol of isovaleroaldehyde is dropwise added to the mixture at 30 40 C. The reaction mixture is stirred at room temperature for 2 hours, combined with ice water, and extracted with ethyl ether. The ether layer is washed with water, dried over magnesium sulfate, and evaporated to leave a residue, which is chromatographed on a silica gel column to give 26.0 g yield 81.4 of an oily product. A mixture of the oily product with a solution of 14 g 0.244 mol of potassium hydroxide in 140 ml of 50 aqueous methanol is refluxed under heating for 2 hours and then evaporated. The remaining aqueous portion is treated with active carbon and acidified with acetic acid under cooling to precipitate crystals, which are then collected by filtration. To a solution of the crystals in 180 ml of methanol is dropwise added 4.5 ml of conc. hydrochloric acid while being stirred at 60 C, and the mixture is refluxed under heating for 10 minutes. After cooling, water is added thereto and the methanol is removed by evaporation Wherein Et and Bu each is the same as above and Pr represents propyl. A mixture of 14.1 g 0.099 mol of di n butyl ketone, 11.2 g 0.099 mol of ethyl cyanoacetate, 1.54 g of ammonium acetate, and 4.8 g of acetic acid with 30 ml of benzene is refluxed under beating for 64 hours, then cooled. The reaction mixture is washed with a dil. aqueous solution of sodium hydroxide under cooling, dried over magnesium sulfate, and evaporated. The resulting residue is distilled To 0.683 g 2.54 mmol of the intermediate is added a solution of 0.33 g of potassium hydroxide in 80 methanol 2.5 ml , and the mixture is refluxed under heating for 5 hours. The reaction mixture is evaporated to leave a residue, which is dissolved in ice water. The solution is washed with ethyl ether and neutralized with acetic acid to precipitate crystals, which are collected by filtration. To a solution of the crystals in 5 ml of n propanol is dropwise added 0.5 ml of conc. hydrochloric acid at 65 C and then the mixture stirred at 60 C for 3 minutes. The solvent is removed and the resulting residue is combined with ice water, washed with ethyl ether, alkalized with 20 aqueous solution of sodium hydroxide, and extracted with ethyl ether. The ethyl ether layer is washed with water, dried over magnesium sulfate, and evaporated to give 0.289 g yield 57.4 of the crude titled compound 3 22 as yellow oil. A mixture of 1.93 g 0.0137 mol of 1 cyclopentyl 2 butanone, 1.94 g 0.0137 mol of t butyl cyanoacetate, 5 ml of benzene, 0.2 g of ammonium acetate, and 0.6 g of acetic acid is refluxed under beating for 20 hours while being dehydrated. After cooled, the reaction mixture is washed with dil. aqueous solution of sodium hydrogencarbonate, dried over magnesium sulfate, and evaporated. The resulting residue is distilled To a mixture of the oil with 2 ml of t butanol and 0.26 g of sulfur is dropwise added 0.5 ml of diethylamine while being stirred at room temperature. The reaction mixture is stirred at 60 C for 18 hours and evaporated to give a residue, which is chromatographed on a silica gel column with benzene to give 2.21 g yield 55.2 of the intermediates A and B as a mixture as an yellow oil. A solution of 1.11 g 3.76 mmol of the intermediates a mixture of A and B in 5 ml of trifluoroacetic acid is stirred at room temperature for 30 minutes, then 60 C for 1.5 hours, and the solvent is removed. The residue is dissolved in ethyl ether, washed with a dil. aqueous solution of sodium hydrogencarbonate, and extracted with 1N hydrochloric acid. The aqueous layer is neutralized with an aqueous solution of sodium hydrogencarbonate and then extracted with ethyl ether. The organic layer is evaporated to give a residue, which is chromatographed on a silica gel column with methylene chloride to give 415 mg yield 56.5 of the titled compound 3 20 as an yellow oil. To a suspension of 0.4 g 10.6 mmol of 60 sodium hydride in 6 ml of dimethoxyethane DME is dropwise added a solution of 1.77 g 10 mmol of diethyl cyanomethylphosphonate in DME 4 ml while being stirred under ice cooling. After the addition, the reaction mixture is further stirred at 20 C for 10 minutes. A solution of 2.0 g 10 mmol of the starting material IV 6 in 2 ml of DME is added thereto and the mixture is refluxed under heating for 4 hours, then cooled. The reaction mixture is combined with ice water and extracted with ethyl ether. The ether layer is washed with a dil. aqueous solution of sodium hydroxide, then water, dried over magnesium sulfate, and filtered. The mother liquor is evaporated In the same manner as shown above, the reaction is performed by using a suspension of 8.06 g 0.168 mol of 50 sodium hydride in 160 ml of DME, a solution of 28.0 g 0.158 mol of diethyl cyanomethylphosphonate in 127 ml of DME, and a solution of 31.7 g 0.158 mol of the starting material IV 7 in 63 ml of DME to give 23.4 g yield 66.2 of the objective compound V 7 as a colorless oil, bp. 85 C 33.3 Pa 0.25 mmHg . This is a mixture of Z and E forms of the objective compound.