# Method for the termination of living polymers and compounds suitable to that purpose.

## Abstract
Coupling agents of general formula

## Claims
1. Agents for coupling living macroanions, having the general formula wherein R aryl, condensed aryl, aryl isolated by an hetero atom or by an alkenylic group, alkyl with a number of carbon atoms ranging from 2 to 20, cycloalkyl, alkylcycloalkyl, radical with heteroatoms R aryl, cycloalkyl, alkyl, alkylaryl, alkylcycloalk yl n an integer, comprised within the range of from 2 to 4, representing the functionality of group R n an integer, comprised within the range of from 2 to 4, representing the functionality of radical R R H or alkyl group, but preferably H R Aryl, alkyl, cycloalkyl.

## Description
The anionic polymerization, if carried out under proper conditions and starting from suitable monomers M. SZWARC, Carbanions, Living Polymers and El. Transfer Processes, Interscience Publishers, J. Wiley and Sons, New York, 1968 , allows living polymers to be obtained, which are well fit for suitable transformations. Among these, the reaction of coupling uniting two or more polymeric segments through a linking agent to yield a polymer having molecular weight nPM, wherein PM is the molecular weight of the polymeric segment and For example, in case of polymerization of dienes, by this way increasing Mooney viscosity, reducing the cold flow , increasing the green tensile strength and even succeeding in modifying the molecular weight as desired is possible. In case then of the synthesis of block polymers constituted by linear or branched coupling of A B ele ments wherein A is an aromatic polyvinyl and or polyiso propenyl sequence and B is a dienic sequence, also hydro genated , the use of efficient coupling agents becomes a factor of basic importance because, as known, the pos sible presence of unreacted A B products in the end product impairs the technological properties of the same. In the technical literature, numerous examples are reported of coupling agents H.L. HSIEH, Rubber Chem. and Tech. We have found now that the hereunder exemplified compounds can be conveniently used as new coupling a gents, because, besides the properties typical of the best coupling agents described in technical literature cfr. H.L. Hsieh, ibid. , they show the following advan tages The products which we found to be efficient coupling agents are comprised within the following general formu la Such coupling agents can be prepared in an easy way, and with yields which in many cases can be quantitative, according to the following procedure The reaction for Non limitative examples of polyaminic compounds used are see radical R para phenylenediamine, meta phenyl enediamine, ortho phenylenediamine, 1,5 diaminonaphtha lene, 1,8 diaminonaphthalene, 4,4 diaminodiphenyl, 4,4 diaminodiphenylether, 4,4 diaminodiphenylmethane, 1,6 diaminohexane, 1,12 diaminododecane, 1,2 diaminocyclo hexane, 4,4 diaminodicyclohexylmethane, 2,6 diaminopyri dine, 3,3 diaminobenzidine, 3,3 ,4,4 tetraaminodiphe nylsulphide, 3,3 ,4,4 tetraaminodiphenylsulphone, 3,3 ,4,4 tetraaminodiphenylether, 1,2,4,5 tetraaminoben zene, 1,4,5,8 tetraaminonaphthalene, 2,3,6,7 tetraamino benzodioxane. Non limitative examples of monofunctional aldehydic and or ketonic and aminic compounds used see radical R are benzaldehyde, cyclohexanaldehyde, butyraldehyde, acetone, methylphenylketone, aniline, butylamine. Non limitative examples of polycarbonylic compounds see radical R are o phthalaldehyde, m phthalalde hyde, p phthalaldehyde, tetramethylenedialdehyde, p di acetylbenzene. The compounds of the present patent application can be used in processes for the polymerization of monomers susceptible of anionic initiation under livingness condi tions, and in particular for the polymerization of dienic and or vinylaromatic monomers. The conjugated dienes used contain from 4 to 12, and preferably from 4 to 8 carbon atoms. Such monomers comprise 1,3 butadiene, isoprene, 2,3 dimethylbutadiene, piperylene, 3 butyl 1,3 octadiene and 2 phenyl 1,3 butadiene. The vinylaromatic monomers contain from 8 to 20, and preferably from 8 to 14 carbon atoms. Typical examples are styrene, α methylstyrene, 1 vinylnaphthalene, 2 vinylnaphthalene, 2 isopropenylnaphthalene, p phenylsty rene, 3 methylstyrene, α methyl p methylstyrene and p cyclohexylstyrene. The conjugated dienes and or the vinylaromatic mono mers can be polymerized either alone or in mixture or sequentially, to form homopolymers, random copolymers and block copolymers. The polymerization is carried out in solution at temperatures comprised within the range of from 100 to 200 C and preferably of from 0 to 100 C, and under a pressure which is the pressure of the system under the temperature conditions used however, higher or lower pressures are not contraindicated. SuiTable solvents comprise paraffinic, cycloparaf finic and aromatic hydrocarbons. Typical examples are cyclohexane, hexane, pentane, heptane, isooctane, ben zene, toluene and mixtures thereof. As known, small amounts of polar compounds can be added to the solvent to the purpose of obtaining, in the polymerization of diene, a 1,2 configuration, or of in creasing the efficiency of the initiator in case of polymerization of vinylaromatic monomers. The initiators are the typical anionic initiators normally used to this purpose. Preferably, the organometallic compounds of formula R Me are used, wherein R is an aliphatic, cycloaliphatic or aromatic hydrocarbon radical and Me is an alkali metal, preferably lithium. The amount of initiator used is related to the molecular weight of the polymer which one wishes to obtain. The polymerization is carried out under such conditions as to secure the livingness of the polymer obtained M. SZWARC, Carbanions, Living Polymers and El. Transfer Processes, Interscience Publishers, J. Wiley Sons, New York, 1968 . The coupling agent can be introduced into the reac tion medium by any way, either by one single addition, or by a portionwise addition and at the desired time. Preferably, it is introduced at the end of the polymerization, in the desired amount. The molar amount of coupling agent m The amount used of coupling agent conditions the coupling yields obviously, a stoichiometric ratio of polymer active centre to coupling agent active centre by taking into account the functionality thereof favours the highest yield. The temperature at which the coupling reaction is carried out depends on the type of agent used, on the type of polymer undergoing the reaction, and on other factors, e.g., on the reaction medium it can vary gene rally within the range of from 20 to 150 C, but the reaction is preferably carried out between 40 and 80 C. The contact times are comprised within the range of from some minutes to some hours preferably, times com prised within the range of from 10 minutes to 2 hours are used. Sometimes, also polar activators, which improve the coupling rate, can be used in the case of the most active coupling compounds herein claimed, the use of these activators is not required. The solvents are those used in the polymerization. The coupling reaction is carried out under a pres sure which is the pressure of the system at the tempera ture at which the reaction is carried out, but higher or lower pressures are not contraindicated. The polymerization and coupling are carried out inside a reactor of 1 litre of capacity, equipped with stirrer, pressure gauge, thermocouple sheath and inlet way for the reactants and the inert gas. In the order, 500 cm³ of anhydrous cyclohexane, 12 g of styrene and 1,0 mmol of Li sec.butyl are charged, leaving to polymerize at 60 C for 1 hour. At the end, 28 g of butadiene is introduced and the reaction is complete at 60 C within 1 hour. A very small aliquot of this polymer is isolated and submitted to the various analy ses. At 60 C, 0.45 mmol is then injected of a solution in benzene cyclohexane 50 50 v v of 1,6 diaminohexane N,N bis benzylidene . 15 minutes later the polymer, after the addition of 1 g of antioxidizer, is coagulated with an excess of methanol, 40 g being obtained of a product which is dried at 60 C for 15 hours under vacuum. The properties of the polymers before and after the coupling reaction are reported in Table 1. The polymer A B A of Example 1 has the following technological properties Elongation 920 Ultimate Tensile Strength 32.4 MPa whilst the corresponding polymer A B, with the elongation being the same, shows an ultimate tensile strength of about 3 MPa. If, instead of 1,6 diaminohexane N,N bis benzyl idene , as the coupling agent dichlorodiphenylsilane is used, under the same experimental conditions, the cou pling efficiency is lower than 10 . The test of Example 1 is repeated, with the only variant that p phenylenediamine N,N bis benzylidene 0.45 mmol is used, and polymers A B and A B A having the properties shown in Table 2 are isolated. see Table 1. Into the reactor described in Example 1, 50 g of α methylstyrene and 1 mmol of Li sec.butyl are charged, the polymerization being carried out at 20 C for 1 hour and 15 minutes. At the end, 5 g of butadiene is added, it being let interact for 15 minutes, and subsequently 500 cm³ of cyclohexane with 25 g of butadiene is added, making polymerize at 60 C for 1 hour. A small sample is drawn, and 0.45 mmol of 1,2 diaminocyclohexane N,N bis benzylidene is then injected, the coupling reaction being carried out at the temperature of 60 C for 15 minutes. In the usual way a polymer 43 g is isolated, which has the properties described in Table 3, wherein also the properties of product A B are reported. The test of Example 1 is repeated, with the only difference that as the coupling agent, 2,6 diaminopyridi ne N,N bis benzylidene is used. The polymerization test is carried out as described at Example 1, but with 1.4 mmol of Li alkyl, and with 3,3 diaminobenzidine N,N ,N ,N tetra benzylidene 0.35 mmol as the coupling agent. The data relevant to the polymers isolated is shown in the following Table. The test is carried out as in Example 1, but instead of butadiene, isoprene is polymerized. As the coupling agent, dianilidoterephthalaldehyde is used, the reaction being carried out at 90 C for 30 minutes. The data relevant to the polymer isolated 42 g and to the corresponding product A B is shown hereunder. In the same equipment as of the above tests, 40 g of butadiene is polymerized at 60 C for 1 hour, with 1 mmol of Li sec.butyl in 400 cm³ of cyclohexane. At the end, a mixture of p.phenylenediamine N,N bis benzylidene 0.25 mmol and of 3,3 diaminobenzidine N,N ,N ,N tetra benzylidene 0.125 mmol is added, letting react 15 minutes at 60 C. The G.P.C. chart of the polymer isolated shows the presence of peaks of products having different coupling degrees, and with a distribution of molecular weight broader than of polymer A B.