# 1,4 DIHYDROPYRIDINE DERIVATIVES, PROCESS FOR PREPARING THEM, PHARMACEUTICAL COMPOSITION AND USE

## Claims
Patentansprüche für folgende Vertragsstaaten BE, CH, DE, FR, GB, IT, LI, LU, NL, SE

## Description
The present invention relates to novel 1,4 dihydropyridine derivatives of the formula 1 wherein X is a halogen R¹ is a straight or branched alkyl group having 1 to 10 carbon atoms, the group CH₂ where D is an aryl or aralkyl group having 6 15 carbon atoms , or a 3 piperidinyl group substituted by a phenylalkyl group of 7 10 carbon atoms which may be substituted by one or two halogens , the group CH₂ where ℓ is an integer of 1 7 A is a hydrogen atom or an aryl group and R³ and R⁴ which may be the same or different represent an alkyl, aryl or aralkyl group and R² is a lower alkyl group. The present invention also relates to pharmaceutically acceptable acid addition salts of these 1,4 dihydropyridine derivatives, as well as a process for preparing such 1,4 dihydropyridine derivatives and pharmaceutically acceptable acid addition salts, and agents which contain them as effective ingredients for treating disorders of the circulatory system. The novel 1,4 dihydropyridine derivatives of the formula 1 exhibit superior pharmacological effects such as hypotension, peripheral vasodilation, coronary vasodilation, cerebral vasodilation, and renovascular dilation over prolonged duration while causing only low levels of side effects. Because of these advantages, the 1,4 dihydropyridine derivatives of the formula 1 are useful as hypotensives, cerebral circulation improvers and antianginal agents. Currently it is being found that calcium antagonists Ca antagonists , which had been spotlighted as new agents for treating disorders of the cardiovascular system, have a variety of pharmacological effects and are active not only against hypertension, angina pectoris, cerebral circulation disorder and arrhythmia but also in preventing arteriosclerosis and potentiating the effects of carcinostatic agents. Thus therapeutic uses of Ca antagonists continue to increase. Ca antagonists which have been known include Nifedipine, Nicardipine, Verapamil, Diltiazem and the like. Many studies have so far been made on Nifedipine and other dihydropyridine derivatives and they have been shown to exhibit interesting pharmacological actions such as vasodilation and hypotension. But there is room for improvement in the properties of these dihydropyridine derivatives such as duration of action, organ selectivity, stability against light, heat, etc., and with respect to side effects. The present inventors made concerted efforts in order to develop calcium antagonists with improvements made in the characteristics listed above. As a result, the inventors have found that the 1,4 dihydropyridine derivatives having the formula 1 shown above exhibit strong vasodilative action over prolonged duration with the utmost level of safety being ensured. The present invention has been accomplished on the basis of this finding. In accordance with the present invention, the novel 1,4 dihydropyridine derivatives of the formula 1 and acid addition salts thereof are provided The 1,4 dihydropyridine derivatives of the formula 1 are synthesized through a route involving the formation of hydroxy 1,4 dihydropyridine derivatives of the following formula 4 The hydroxy 1,4 dihydropyridine derivatives of formula 4 which are used as intermediate compounds in the process of the present invention may be synthesized by an improved version of the method described in C.F.H. Allen et al., Org. Syn. Coll., vol. 3, 377 1955 . According to this modified method, a dialkyl ester of malonic acid represented by formula 5 where R² is the same as defined above and one equivalent amount of nitrobenzaldehyde are heated in the presence of a base such as piperidine, methyl piperidine or trialkylamine to form a benzylidenemalonic acid ester derivative of the formula 2 where R² is the same as defined above . To this benzylidenemalonic acid ester derivative 2 is added one equivalent amount of a 3 aminocrotonic acid ester derivative of the formula 3 where R¹ is the same as defined above and the mixture is heated to form a compound of the formula 6 where R¹ and R² are the same as defined above . This compound 6 is heated either in the presence of a base such as triethylamine, potassium carbonate or potassium t butoxide or, if R¹ has a basic group, in the absence of any base, thereby forming a hydroxydihydropyridine derivative having the formula 4 The compound of the present invention having the formula 1 where X, R¹ and R² are the same as defined above may be obtained by heating said hydroxydihydropyridine derivative 4 in the presence of a halogenating agent such as phosphorus oxychloride or phosphorus pentachloride. Throughout the process of synthesizing this dihydropyridine derivative 1 , an ether , hydrocarbon or amide based solvent is desirably used, with the heating temperature being desirably selected at between 60 and 150 C. The ester substituent R¹ at position 5 of the thus synthesized novel 1,4 dihydropyridine derivative 1 may be a straight or branched alkyl group having 1 10 carbon atoms, the group CH₂ where D is an aryl or aralkyl group having 6 15 carbon atoms or a 3 piperidinyl group substituted by a phenylalkyl group of 7 10 carbon atoms which may be substituted by one or two halogens , the group CH₂ where ℓ is an integer of 1 7 A is a hydrogen atom or an aryl group and R³ and R⁴ which may be the same or different represent an alkyl, aryl or aralkyl group . After the above reaction the products of the formula 1 of this invention can be purified by using conventional methods such as adsorption column chromatography, ion exchange chromatography or recrystallization. Alternatively, the products can be treated with an inorganic acid such as hydrochloric acid, sulfuric acid or phosphoric acid, or an organic acid such as oxalic acid, succinic acid or malic acid to convert them to salts thereof, and then can be purified by recrystallization, adsorption chromatography or ion exchange chromatography. The thus prepared compounds 1 of the present invention exhibit a strong vasodilative effect in isolated guinea pig hearts, strong vasodilative and hypotensive effects in anesthetized dogs, and a strong hypotensive effect in conscious spontaneously hypertensive rats SHR , and all of these effects last longer than in the case where existing drugs such as Nicardipine are administered. Thus, the compounds of the present invention exhibit superior coronary vasodilative effects in guinea pigs and prove very effective in dogs for increasing the blood flow of vertebral artery, reducing the vascular resistance of vertebral artery and lowering the systemic blood pressure. Because of these effects, the compounds of the present invention will be useful in treating angina pectoris myocardial infarction , disturbances of cerebral circulation, and hypertension. The compounds 1 of the present invention can be administered alone or in combination with excipients in a variety of dosage forms such as tablets, troches, pills, granules, powders, capsules, ampules, suppositories and the like. The excipients include, for example, starch, dextrin, sucrose, lactose, silicic acid, carboxymethylcellulose, cellulose, gelatin, polyvinylpyrrolidone, glycerin, agar, calcium carbonate, sodium bicarbonate, paraffin, cetyl alcohol, stearic acid esters, kaolin, bentonite, talc, calcium stearate, magnecium stearate, polyethyleneglycol, water, ethanol, isopropylalcohol, propyleneglycol and the like. For parenteral administration, the compounds of this invention are converted into water soluble salts thereof and the salts are dissolved in sterile distilled water or sterile physiological saline and are filled in ampules to be used for injection. If necessary, stabilizing agents and or buffering agents can be included in the ampules. For oral administration, the optimum dose range of the compound 1 of this invention is 5 500 mg per day for an adult. Of course, this dose range can be suitably changed depending upon the characteristics of the subjects including age, response, body weight, severity of disease etc. The present invention can be illustrated by the following working examples and referential examples but it should be understood that it is not limited to them. Methyl acetoacetate 5.0 g was dissolved in methanol 20 ml and after addition of a concentrated 28 aqueous ammonia solution 5 ml , the mixture was heated under reflux for 16 hours. After completion of the reaction, the solvent was distilled off and the residue was subjected to extraction with chloroform, yielding 4.75 g 95.8 of colorless needles. The needles 151 mg and dimethyl 3 nitrobenzylidenemalonate 318 mg were dissolved in anhydrous ethanol 13 ml and the mixture was heated under reflux for 4.5 hours. The reaction mixture was cooled to room temperature to obtain 285 mg of crystals. A portion 175 mg of the crystals was dissolved in 6 ml of anhydrous methanol and, after addition of triethylamine 1.5 ml , the mixture was heated under reflux for 16 hours. After the solvent was distilled off under reduced pressure, the residue was subjected to silica gel column chromatography elution solvent 2 chloroform methanol and the resulting crude crystals were recrystallized from a solution of chloroform ether to obtain 152 mg yield 95.0 of the desired compound m.p. 150 152 C . The following compounds were synthesized in accordance with the method of Referential Example A a The physicochemical data of compound 1 and of the above listed compounds are shown in Table A. Crystals 1.33 g obtained during synthesis according to Referential Example A a were dissolved in 20 ml of anhydrous dimethylformamide. The resulting solution was added to 2.42 g of anhydrous potassium carbonate and the mixture was stirred at 80 C for 2.5 hours. The reaction mixture was poured into ice water and subjected to extraction with ether. The extract was distilled off to obtain crude crystals. This crude crystals were recrystallized from chloroform ether to obtain 1.10 g 91 of the desired compound. After reaction was performed in accordance with Referential Example A b, the extract was distilled off and the residue was subjected to silica gel column chromatography elution solvent 1 chloroform methanol to thereby obtain 3 ethoxycarbonyl 2 hydroxy 6 methyl 5 2 morpholino ethyl oxycarbonyl 4 2 nitrophenyl 1,4 dihydropyridine Compound 15 . The physicochemical data of this compound are shown in Table A. A mixture of 2 2 thienyl ethyl 3 amino 2 butenoate 1.8 g and dimethyl 3 nitrobenzylidenemalonate 2.25 g was dissolved in anhydrous 2 propanol 80 ml and, after addition of triethylamine 27 ml , the mixture was refluxed for 21 hours. After the solvent was distilled off under reduced pressure, the residue was purified by thin layer silica gel chromatography developing solvent chloroform methanol 19 1 elution solvent chloroform acetone 2 1 so as to obtain 1.0 g 26 of the desired compound. The physicochemical data of this compound are shown in Table A. A mixture of 8 pyrrolizidinylmethyl 3 amino 2 butenoate 0.19 g and dimethyl 3 nitrobenzylidenemalonate 0.23 g was dissolved in 15 ml of anhydrous 2 propanol, and the mixture was heated under reflux for 22 hours. After the solvent was distilled off under reduced pressure, the residue was subjected to silica gel column chromatography elution solvent 5 chloroform methanol , thereby obtaining 0.32 g 82.1 of the desired compound. By repeating the method of Referential Example C, 3,5 dimethoxycarbonyl 2 hydroxy 6 methyl 4 2 nitrophenyl 1,4 dihydropyridine Compound 2 was obtained. The physicochemical data of the Compounds 16 and 2 are shown in Table A. 5 2 4 Benzhydrylpiperazin 1 yl ethyl oxycarbonyl 2 hydroxy 3 methoxycarbonyl 6 methyl 4 3 nitrophenyl 1,4 dihydropyridine 390 mg was dissolved in phosphorus oxychloride 5 ml and the mixture was heated under reflux for 3 hours and 10 minutes. After excess phosphorus oxychloride had been distilled off under reduced pressure, the reaction mixture was diluted with saturated potassium carbonate and subjected to extraction with chloroform. The extract was distilled off and the residue was subjected to silica gel column chromatography elution solvent 1 chloroform methanol , thereby obtaining crude crystals. This crude crystals were recrystallized from a solution of chloroform isopropylether hexane to yield 210 mg 57.2 of the desired compound. 5 1 4 fluorobenzyl piperidin 3 yl oxycarbonyl 2 hydroxy 3 methoxycarbonyl 6 methyl 4 3 nitrophenyl 1,4 dihydropyridine 1.85 g was dissolved in phosphorus oxychloride 22 ml and the mixture was heated under reflux for 3 hours. After excess phosphorus oxychloride had been distilled off under reduced pressure, the reaction mixture was diluted with saturated potassium carbonate and subjected to extraction with chloroform. The extract was distilled off and the residue was subjected to silica gel column chromatography elution solvent 0.7 2.5 chloroform methanol and to alumina column chromatography elution solvent chloroform hexane 3 2 , so as to obtain 0.98 g 51.3 of the desired compound. The physicochemical data of SUN 4752 and SUN 5142 are shown in Table 1. Additional compounds were synthesized by repeating Examples 1 and 2 and their physicochemical data are shown in Table 1 together with the respective compound numbers. The coronary vascular dilative effect of selected 2 chloro 1,4 dihydropyridine derivatives of the present invention was tested. Hartley guinea pigs weight 400 500 g were killed by a blow on the head and their hearts were immediately isolated. The hearts were perfused with Krebs Henseleit solution bubbled with a mixture of 95 O₂ 5 CO₂ and maintained at 37 C at a constant rate of 6 ml minute according to Langendorff s method J. Pharmacol. Methods The pharmacological effect ED₃₀ of selected 2 chloro 1,4 dihydropyridine derivatives of the present invention with respect to the vascular resistance of the vertebral artery in anesthetized dogs was tested by the following procedures. Adult dogs of either sex 7 14 kg in body weight were anesthetized with at first thiopental sodium 35 mg kg, intraperitoneal , anesthetized with urethane 400 mg kg, intravenous and α At the same time, continuous measurement of the following parameters was made systemic blood pressure mean pressure at the right femoral artery, the limb lead II ECG, the heart rate with a tachometer triggered by the R wave of ECG, and the vascular resistance determined by loading an electronic divider EO 601 G, Nihon Kohden with the mean values of blood pressure and vertebral artery blood flow. All of these parameters were recorded simultaneously on a polygraph RM 600, Nihon Kohden . All the test compounds were injected through a cannula inserted into the femoral vein. The ED₃₀ µg kg values obtained by intravenous injection and the values of T Selected compounds of the present invention were tested for their hypotensive action in conscious spontaneously hypertensive rats SHR . A group of 17 to 20 week old male SHR were anesthetized with ether and a cannula was inserted into the left femoral artery. At least one day after the operation, the cannula was connected to a pressure transducer and the blood pressure was measured continuously under conscious and unrestrained condition, thereby obtaining the data shown in Table 4. Each of the test compounds as a clear suspension in 0.5 CMC Na was administered orally at a dose of 10 mg kg body weight to each animal which was starved overnight. The acute toxicity LD₅₀ data of selected compounds of the present invention as administered to two groups of male mice were obtained and the results are shown in Table 5. One group of mice which received peroral administration had been starved overnight. Each of the test compounds was suspended in 0.5 CMC Na for peroral administration, or dissolved in dimethyl sulfoxide and diluted with physiological saline solution for intravenous injection. The compounds of this invention have a strong and long lasting vasodilative effect. Therefore, said compounds are considered to be useful as agents for causing coronary vascular dilation or treating hypertension or disturbances of cerebral circulation. Such disorders can be treated by administering the compound of the present invention, at a low dose level and at infrequent interval. This will make sure that the intended treatment can be done safely and easily.