# Process for coating an electrically conductive substrate and an aqueous coating composition based on a cationic binder.

## Abstract
A process is provided for coating an electrically conductive sub strate with an aqueous coating composition containing a cationic binder wherein the binder is obtained by polymerization of 100 parts by weight of a specified monomer mixture in the presence of 0,5 to 25 parts by weight of a polyurethane having 2 5 acryloyl groups or methacryloyl groups, a molecular weight of 400 7000 and a molecular weight per meth acryloyl group of at least 200. The invention also pertains to the aqueous composition as such.

## Claims
1. A process for coating an electrically conductive substrate with an aqueous coating composition based on a cationic binder obtained by polymerization of a monomer mixture con sisting of 1 30 by weight of a hydroxy cyclo alkyl meth acrylate of which the cyclo alkyl group contains 2 8 carbon atoms, 4 45 by weight of an amino meth acrylate of the formula where at least one of the groups R₁ is an organic group con taining 1 12 carbon atoms and the other group R₁ may op tionally be a hydrogen atom, or the two groups R₁, together with the nitrogen atom attached thereto, form a heterocyclic group, R₂ is a hydrocarbon group containing 2 12 carbon atoms and R₃ is a hydrogen atom or a methyl group, 0 80 by weight of a monovinyl aromatic hydrocarbon containing 8 14 carbon atoms, and 0 50 by weight of a different mono ethylenically unsaturated monomer containing 2 20 carbon atoms, in the presence of a polyethylenically unsaturated compound, the amino groups present in the binder being at least partially neutralized with an acid, characterized in that the polyethylenically unsaturated compound is a poly urethane having 2 5 acryloyl groups or methacryloyl groups, a molecular weight of 400 7000 and a molecular weight per meth acryloyl group of at least 200, which polyurethane is present in an amount of 0,5 to 25 parts by weight per 100 parts by weight of the monomer mixture.

## Description
The invention relates to a process for coating an electrically conductive substrate with an aqueous coating composition based on a cationic binder obtained by polymerization of a monomer mixture consisting of 1 30 by weight of a hydroxy cyclo alkyl meth acrylate of which the cyclo alkyl group contains 2 8 carbon atoms, 4 45 by weight of an amino meth acrylate of the formula The process according to the invention is characterized in that the polyethylenically unsaturated compound is a polyurethane having 2 5 acryloyl groups or methacryloyl groups, a molecular weight of 400 7000 and a molecular weight per meth acryloyl group of at least 200, which polyurethane is present in an amount of 0,5 to 25 parts by weight per 100 parts by weight of the monomer mixture. Examples of hydroxy meth acrylates suitable for use in the monomer mixture include hydroxyethyl acrylate, hydroxyethyl meth acrylate, hydroxypropyl acrylate, hydroxypropyl methacrylate, hydroxybutyl acrylate, hydroxyhexyl acrylate, hydroxyoctyl acrylate and hydroxycyclohexyl acrylate. It is preferred that use should be made of hydroxyalkyl meth acrylates, more particularly hydroxyethyl acrylate and or hydroxypropyl methacrylate. It is preferred that the monomer mixture should contain 5 24 by weight of hydroxy cyclo alkyl meth acrylate. Examples of amino meth acrylates suitable for use in the monomer mixture include methylaminoethyl meth acrylate, dimethylamino ethyl meth acrylate, diethylaminoethyl meth acrylate, propyl aminoethyl meth acrylate, tert. butylaminoethyl meth acrylate, hexylaminobutyl meth acrylate, cyclohexylaminoethyl meth acrylate, dimethylcyclohexylaminoethyl meth acrylate, octyl aminoethyl meth acrylate, dodecylaminoethyl meth acrylate, pyridylethyl meth acrylate and the chloride or sulphate of tri methylammoniumethyl meth acrylate. It is preferred that use should be made of a di alkylamino meth acrylate of which the alkyl group s has have 1 4 carbon atoms. More particularly, use is made of a β di alkylaminoethyl meth acrylate of which the alkyl group s has have 1 4 carbon atoms, for example β dimethylaminoethyl meth acrylate and β diethylaminoethyl meth acrylate. It is preferred that the monomer mixture should contain 7 35 by weight, more particularly 7 28 by weight of amino meth acrylate. The monomer mixture contains as third component a monovinyl aro matic hydrocarbon having 8 14, preferably 8 10 carbon atoms. Representative examples include styrene, α methyl styrene, vinyl toluene and vinyl naphthalene. It is preferred that use should be made of styrene and or vinyl toluene. It is preferred that the monomer mixture should contain 10 70 by weight of monovinyl aromatic hydrocarbon. Finally, the monomer mixture contains 0 50, preferably 0 45 by weight of some other monoethylenically unsaturated monomer having 2 20 carbon atoms, such as acrylic or methacrylic esters, for example methyl methacrylate, ethyl acrylate, glycidyl meth acrylate, butyl acrylate, 2 ethylhexyl acrylate, dodecyl acrylate and hexadecyl acrylate nitriles, for example acrylonitrile and methacrylonitrile and compounds such as vinyl chloride, vinyl acetate and vinyl propionate carboxylic acids such as acrylic acid, methacrylic acid, crotonic acid, itaconic acid and maleic acid may generally be applied in an amount not higher than about 1 by weight. The 2 5 acryloyl groups or methacryloyl groups containing poly urethanes to be used according to the invention hereinafter referred to as polyurethane meth acrylate may be prepared in any convenient manner. By a polyurethane is to be understood here a compound having at least 2 urethane groups per molecule. Representative polyurethane meth acrylates include the adducts of on the one hand a hydroxyl group containing meth acrylic ester of a polyol to an at least bifunctional isocyanate compound on the other. If such adducts should still contain free iso cyanate groups, these compounds should be reacted with a hydroxyl compound having at least 1 hydroxyl group. The polyurethane meth acrylate should, of course, satisfy the requirements of the present invention. Such methods of preparation are known per se to a man skilled in the art and need not be further described here. As suitable hydroxyl group containing meth acrylic esters of a polyol on the basis of which the adduct to an at least bifunc tional isocyanate compound is formed may be mentioned esters of acrylic acid and or methacrylic acid and di , tri or polyvalent polyols such as polyester diols, polyester polyols, polyether diols, polyether polyols, polyurethane diols, polyurethane poly ols, polybutadiene diols, polybutadiene polyols and hydroxyl com pounds such as ethylene glycol, propylene glycol, diethylene glycol, tetramethylene diol, neopentyl glycol, hexamethylene diol, cyclohexane diol, dimethylol cyclohexane bis 4 hydroxy cyclohexyl methane, glycerol, trimethylol ethane, trimethylol propane and pentaerythritol. Such hydroxyl compounds are des cribed, among other places, in Lackkunstharze by H. Wagner and H.F. Sarx, 5th Edition, 1971 Carl Hanser Verlag, München . It is preferred that use should be made of hydroxyl group containing meth acrylic esters of diols having 2 or 3 carbon atoms. As examples of at least bifunctional isocyanate compounds that may be used for the above envisaged adduct may be mentioned ali phatic, cycloaliphatic or aromatic di , tri or tetraisocyanates such as 1,2 propylene diisocyanate, trimethylene diisocyanate, tetramethylene diisocyanate, 2,3 butylene diisocyanate, hexa methylene diisocyanate, octamethylene diisocyanate, 2,2,4 tri methylhexamethylene diisocyanate, 2,4,4 trimethylhexamethylene diisocyanate, dodecamethylene diisocyanate, ω,ω dipropyl ether diisocyanate, 1,3 cyclopentane diisocyanate, 1,2 cyclohexane di isocyanate, 1,4 cyclohexane diisocyanate, isophorone diiso cyanate, 4 methyl 1,3 diisocyanatocyclohexane, trans vinylidene diisocyanate, dicyclohexyl methane 4,4 diisocyanate, 3,3 dimethyl dicyclohexyl methane 4,4 diisocyanate, a toluene diiso cyanate, 1,3 bis isocyanatomethyl benzene, a xylylene diiso cyanate, 1,5 dimethyl 2,4 bis isocyanatomethyl benzene, 1,5 dimethyl 2,4 bis 2 isocyanatoethyl benzene, 1,3,5 triethyl 2,4 bis isocyanatomethyl benzene, 4,4 diisocyanatodiphenyl, 3,3 dichloro 4,4 diisocyanatodiphenyl, 3,3 diphenyl 4,4 diiso cyanatodiphenyl, 3,3 dimethoxy 4,4 diisocyanatodiphenyl, 4,4 diisocyanatodiphenyl methane, 3,3 dimethyl 4,4 diisocyanatodi phenyl methane, a diisocyanatonaphthalene, the adduct of 2 mole cules of a diisocyanate, for instance hexamethylene diisocyanate or isophorone diisocyanate, and a diol such as ethylene glycol, the adduct of 3 molecules of hexamethylene diisocyanate and 1 molecule of water available under the trademark Desmodur N of Bayer , the adduct of 1 molecule of trimethylol propane and 3 molecules of toluene diisocyanate available under the trademark Desmodur L of Bayer , the adduct of 1 molecule of trimethylol propane and 3 molecules of isophorone diisocyanate, compounds such as 1,3,5 triisocyanatobenzene, 2,4,6 triisocyanatotoluene, isocyanurate group containing isocyanate compounds and the adduct of 1 molecule of pentaerythritol and 4 molecules of toluene diisocyanate, or mixtures of 2 or more of the above envisaged isocyanate compounds. It is preferred that use should be made of a diisocyanate or triisocyanate containing 8 36 carbon atoms. As examples of other suitable polyurethane meth acrylates may be mentioned the adducts of a meth acrylate compound having an iso cyanate group to an adduct of an epoxy compound to an alkanol amine. Examples of the isocyanate group containing meth acrylate compound required for the preparation of said polyurethane meth acrylates include the afore described adducts of a hydroxyl group containing meth acrylic ester to a di or polyisocyanate, in which case the adduct should still contain at least 1 iso cyanate group. Also suitable starting compounds are other iso cyanate group containing meth acrylate compounds, such as iso cyanatoethyl methacrylate. As examples of epoxy compounds required for the preparation of the polyurethane meth acrylates envisaged here may be mentioned the glycidyl ethers of cyclo aliphatic or aromatic hydroxyl com pounds such as ethylene glycol, glycerol, cyclohexane diol, mono nuclear di or polyvalent phenols, bisphenols such as Bis phenol A and Bisphenol F, and glycidyl group containing resins, such as polyesters or polyurethanes, containing at least 1 gly cidyl group per molecule, or mixtures of the above envisaged epoxy resins. The epoxy resins are known to a man skilled in the art and need not be further described here. It is preferred that use should be made of the monoglycidyl ether of Bisphenol A. As examples of the alkanol amines required for the formation of the adduct of an epoxy compound to an alkanol amine may be men tioned secondary amines containing at least 1 alkanol group per molecule. If in that molecule only 1 alkanol group is present, then the other substituent to the nitrogen atom is an alkyl group or cycloalkyl group having 1 12, preferably 1 4 carbon atoms. It is preferred that the alkanol group should contain 1 4 carbon atoms. More particularly, use is made of diethanol amine. It is preferred that the binder should be obtained by polymerization of 0,5 25 parts by weight of the polyurethane meth acrylate per 100 parts by weight of the monomer mixture. Polymerization of the monomer mixture in the presence of the polyurethane methacrylate may be carried out by methods known in themselves, use being made of a free radical initiator in an organic solvent at a temperature generally in the range of 10 to 130 C, use being made of ultraviolet radiation, if desired. For instance, polymerization may take place with continuous addition of a mixture of the monomers and initiator to a solution of the polyurethane meth acrylate and the monomer composition that is chosen may be constant or variable. Examples of suitable solvents include polar solvents such as ketones, for instance methylethyl ketone alcohols such as the ethyl ether or the butyl ether of ethylene glycol and the ethyl ether of ethylene glycol acetate. Generally, use is made of ini tiators which have such a half life period at the chosen poly merization temperature that throughout the polymerization reac tion a certain amount of initiator is present. Preferably, the polymerization is continued up to a conversion of the monomer mixture of at least 95 , more particularly 98 100 . Examples of suitable radical initiators include 2.2 azo bis iso butyronitrile, benzoyl peroxide, tert. butyl peroctoate and methylethyl ketone peroxide. The initiator is usually employed in an amount of 0,2 8, preferably 1 7 by weight, based on the weight of the monomer mixture. Optionally, the initiator may be added to the polymerization mixture batchwise. For the resulting polymerization product to be made cationic and watersoluble the amino groups present should at least partly be neutralized. This is generally done in a known manner and with the aid of an in organic acid. Examples of suitable acids include boric acid, phosphoric acid, sulphuric acid, sulphurous acid, hydrochloric acid, formic acid, acetic acid, propionic acid, glycolic acid, thioglycolic acid, diglycolic acid, lactic acid, thiopropionic acid, tartaric acid, malic acid or citric acid. Generally, use is made of mixtures of acids. It is prefer red that use should be made of lactic acid. Neutralization may be carried out stepwise, if desired. It is preferred that 30 100 of the available amino groups of the binder should be neutralized. The pH of the composition is generally in the range of 3 7, pre ferably 4 5. The preparation of the aqueous coating composition is effected in a simple manner, for instance by adding deionized water to the at least partly neutralized binder to a concentration level of about 30 50 by weight. Subsequently, the resulting solution is diluted with water to a commonly used concentration of 1 35 by weight, preferably 5 20 by weight. The aqueous coating composition further contains a curing agent for the hydroxyl groups containing polymerization product. Re presentative curing agents include blocked polyisocyanates. Examples of suitable polyisocyanates include aliphatic, cyclo aliphatic or aromatic diisocyanates such as trimethylene diiso cyanate, tetramethylene diisocyanate, hexamethylene diisocyanate trimethyl hexamethylene diisocyanate, 1,2 propylene diisocyanate, 2,3 butylene diisocyanate, ω,ω dipropyl ether diisocyanate, 1,2 cyclohexane diisocyanate, 1,4 cyclohexane diisocyanate, iso phorone diisocyanate, dicyclohexylmethane 4,4 diisocyanate, 3,3 dimethyl dicyclohexylmethane 4,4 diisocyanate, xylylene di isocyanate, 1,5 dimethyl 2,4 bis isocyanatomethyl benzene, 1,5 dimethyl 2,4 bis 2 isocyanatoethyl benzene, 1,3,5 triethyl 2,4 bis isocyanatomethyl benzene, 4,4 diphenylmethane diisocyanate, 2,4 toluene diisocyanate, 2,6 toluene diisocyanate, naphthalene diisocyanate, dianisidine diisocyanate, 4,4 diphenylether di isocyanate. Also suitable for use are higher functional polyisocyanates such as the adduct of 3 molecules of hexamethylene diisocyanate and 1 molecule of water available under the trademark Desmodur N of Bayer , the adduct of 1 molecule of trimethylol propane and 3 molecules of toluene diisocyanate available under the trademark Desmodur L of Bayer and the adduct of 1 molecule of trimethylol propane and 3 molecules of isophorone diisocyanate, and compounds such as 1,3,5 triisocyanatobenzene and 2,4,6 triisocyanato toluene. Examples of suitable, known blocking agents for the polyiso cyanate include alcohols, lactams, hydroxamates and oximes. As examples of suitable alcohols, which may be aliphatic, cyclo aliphatic or alkylaromatic, may be mentioned propanol, 1 butanol, 2 butanol, isobutanol and pentanols. Examples of suitable lactams include ε caprolactam, butyrolactam and 2 pyrrolidone. As examples of suitable oximes may be mentioned ethylmethyl ketoxime. Preference is given to the use of blocked polyiso cyanates as curing agents in cases where the aqueous coating com position is to be applied to the substrate cataphoretically. Other curing agents are, for instance, N methylol and or N methylol ether groups containing aminoplasts obtained by reacting an aldehyde, for example formaldehyde, with an amino or amido groups containing compound such as melamine, urea, N,N ethylene urea, dicyandiamide and benzoguanamine for the preparation of these compounds see, for instance, Houben Weyl, Methoden der organischen Chemie, Volume 14 2, pp. 319 371 1963 . It is pre ferred that the afore described compounds should entirely or partly be etherified with alcohols having 1 to 6 carbon atoms, for example with methanol, ethanol, n propanol, isopropanol, n butanol, isobutanol, amyl alcohol, hexanol or mixtures of the above envisaged alcohols. Especially, use can be made of a methylol melamine having 4 to 6 methylol groups per melamine molecule, at least 3 methylol groups being etherified with methanol, ethanol, propanol or butanol. More particularly, use can be made of a hexaalkoxymethyl melamine with the alkoxy group having 1 to 4 carbon atoms. The aqueous coating composition may contain conventional adju vants and additives, for instance surface active compounds, anti sag agents, dispersing agents, antioxidants, dispersion stabilizers, co solvents, pigments and dyes. As examples of suit able pigments may be mentioned iron oxide, lead oxide, strontium chromate, carbon black, titanium dioxide, talc, silica, barium sulphate, cadmium yellow, cadmium red and phthalocyanine pig ments. As substrate there is used in the present process an electrically conductive substrate, which may for instance be of a pretreated or non pretreated metal or alloy, such as iron, steel, zinc plated iron, copper, brass or aluminium, or an electrically con ductive synthetic material or rubber. The aqueous coating com position may be applied to an electrically conductive substrate for instance by brushing, spraying, dipping, electrostatic spray ing, but preferably by cataphoresis. Cataphoresis may be carried out in the usual manner, for instance at a voltage of 50 500, preferably 100 350, and an initial current density of 0,1 40 A m². If desired, however, the aqueous coating composition may be applied to any electrically non conductive substrate. After the coating has been applied to the substrate, it is baked at a temperature of, for instance, 90 250 C, preferably 110 200 C. The time required for baking depends on the baking tem perature and generally varies between about 5 and 45 minutes. The invention also pertains to an aqueous coating composition based on a cationic binder obtained by polymerization of a mono mer mixture consisting of 1 30 by weight of a hydroxy cyclo alkyl meth acrylate of which the cyclo alkyl group has 2 8 carbon atoms, 4 45 by weight of an amino meth acrylate of the formula The invention will be further described in, but not limited by the following examples. Unless otherwise indicated, all parts and percentages are by weight. The cured coatings obtained according to the Examples were tested for hardness in conformity with NF T 30 016, for adhesion in accordance with DIN 53151, for flexi bility in accordance with NF T 30.040 cylindrical bending , for gloss in accordance with ASTM D 523 angle of 60 and for resis tance to corrosion by exposure for 400 hours to a salt spray in conformity with ASTM B 117 64 the results are expressed as C In a reactor provided with a stirrer and a reflux condenser 40,45 parts of polypropylene oxide diol of a molecular weight of 1200 were heated to a temperature of 50 C. Subsequently, 11,73 parts of tolulyl diisocyanate were added at a rate such that the tem perature of the reactor contents did not rise to above 50 C. The reaction was continued at a temperature of 50 C until the iso cyanate content was 5,3 5,5 . Then 0,05 parts of dibutyltin laurate and 7,82 parts of hydroxyethyl acrylate were gradually added and the reaction was continued until the isocyanate content was less than 0,1 . Finally, 40 parts of 2 butoxyethanol were added and a 60 solution of the isocyanate free product was ob tained. In a second step 3,0 parts of the previously prepared solution of the polyurethane meth acrylate were mixed with 37,6 parts of monobutyl ether of ethylene glycol and the mixture was heated to a temperature of 100 C. Next, a mixture of 32,1 parts of styrene, 11,3 parts of hydroxyethyl acrylate, 8,0 parts of methyl meth acrylate, 6,7 parts of dimethylaminoethyl methacrylate and 1,05 parts of 2.2 azo bis isobutyronitrile was introduced into the reactor in such a way that the temperature of the reactor con tents did not rise to above 110 C. After the monomer mixture had been added, the contents of the reactor were kept at 100 C for 1 hour. Finally, a mixture of 0,6 parts of 2.2 azo bis isobutyronitrile and 1,2 parts of monobutyl ether of ethylene glycol was added to the reactor contents in 2 equal portions, each of them over a period of 1 hour, in the process of which and for 2 more hours the reaction mixture was kept at a temperature of 100 110 C. The resulting binder solution had a solids contents of 59,9 and upon dilution with monobutyl ether of ethylene glycol it had a Gardner Holdt vis cosity of Z₄ Z₅. A coating composition was prepared by intermixing 64,0 parts of the afore described binder solution, 14,0 parts of an 80 solution of the adduct completely blocked with ε caprolactam of 3 molecules of hexamethylene diisocyanate and 1 molecule of water in the methyl ether of propylene glycol acetate, 35,0 parts of rutile titanium dioxide, 6,0 parts of monobutyl ether of ethylene glycol, 1,5 parts of an 85 aqueous solution of phosphoric acid and deionized water in an amount such that a composition having a solids content of 12,0 was obtained. The aqueous coating composition was applied to a steel panel Bonder 132 by cataphoretic deposition at a voltage of 250, a temperature of 25 C and an initial current density of 20 A m² to a coating thickness of 35 40 µm and subsequently cured for 25 minutes at a temperature of 180 C. In a reactor provided with a stirrer and a reflux condenser 20,9 parts of hydroxyethyl acrylate were slowly added to a solution of 31,3 parts of tolulyl diisocyanate in 20,0 parts of monoethyl ether of propylene glycol acetate at a rate such that the tem perature of the reactor contents did not rise to above 55 C. The reaction was continued at a temperature of 50 55 C until the isocyanate content was 10,5 . Then, 0,04 parts of dibutyltin laurate and 27,8 parts of tetrahydroxyfunctional polycaprolactone having a molecular weight of 600 were gradually added and the reaction was continued until the isocyanate content was less than 0,1 . Finally, 33,3 parts of monobutyl ether were added and an 80 solution of the isocyanate free product was obtained. In a second step 1,25 parts of the previously prepared solution of the polyurethane meth acrylate were mixed with 37,7 parts of monobutyl ether of ethylene glycol and the mixture was heated to a temperature of 100 C. Subsequently, a mixture of 32,2 parts of styrene, 11,3 parts of hydroxyethyl acrylate, 8,1 parts of methyl methacrylate, 6,8 parts of dimethylaminoethyl methacrylate and 1,17 parts of 2.2 azo bis isobutyronitrile was introduced into the reactor in such a way that the temperature of the reactor con tents did not rise to above 110 C. After the monomer mixture had been added, the reactor contents were kept at a temperature of 100 C for 1 more hour. Finally, a mixture of 0,6 parts of 2.2 azo bis isobutyronitrile and 1,2 parts of monobutyl ether of ethylene glycol was added to the reactor contents in 2 equal portions, each of them over a period of 1 hour, in the process of which and for 2 more hours the reaction mixture was kept at a temperature of 100 110 C. The resulting binder solution had a solids content of 59,4 and upon dilution with monobutyl ether of ethylene glycol it had a Gardner Holdt viscosity of Z₃ Z₄. The coating composition based on the resulting binder solution was prepared in the same way as indicated in Example 1 and so were the application and the baking processes. The measured properties of the coating obtained are given in the Table. In a reactor provided with a stirrer and a reflux condenser 40 parts of hydroxyethyl acrylate were mixed with 60 parts of tolulyl diisocyanate at a temperature of 45 C. The resulting reaction product had an isocyanate content of 14,3 its Gardner Holdt viscosity was Z Z₁. In a next step 20,3 parts of the previously prepared product were mixed with the adduct of 32,4 parts of bisglycidyl ether of Bis phenol A of a molecular weight of 900 and 7,3 parts of diethanol amine in the presence of 17,0 parts of methylisobutyl ketone and 0,03 parts of dibutyltin laurate. The reaction was continued at 60 C until no more isocyanate could be detected and subsequently 14,2 parts of monobutyl ether of ethylene glycol were added. The resulting 59,5 solution of the polyurethane meth acrylate had a Gardner Holdt viscosity of Z Z₁. Then 1,66 parts of that solution were mixed with 37,8 parts of monobutyl ether of ethylene glycol and the mixture was heated to a temperature of 100 C. Subsequently, a mixture of 32,3 parts of styrene, 11,3 parts of hydroxyethyl acrylate, 8,1 parts of methyl methacrylate, 6,8 parts of dimethylaminoethyl methacrylate and 0,9 parts of 2.2 azo bis isobutyronitrile was introduced into the reactor in such a way that the temperature of the reactor contents did not exceed 110 C. After the monomer mixture had been added, the reactor contents were kept at a temperature of 100 C for 1 more hour. Finally, a mixture of 0,6 parts of 2.2 azo bis isobutyronitrile and 1,2 parts of monobutyl ether of ethylene glycol was added to the contents of the reactor in two equal por tions, each of them over a period of 1 hour, in the process of which and for 2 more hours the reaction mixture was kept at a temperature of 100 C. Obtained was a binder solution having a solids content of 59,2 which upon dilution with monobutylether of ethylene glycol had a Gardner Holdt viscosity of Z₃ Z₄. A coating composition based on the resulting binder solution was prepared, applied and baked as indicated in Example 1. The measured properties of the coating are given in the Table. The procedure of Example 2 was repeated, except that use was made of tolulyl diisocyanate in an amount of 18,3 parts, the ethyl ether of propylene glycol acetate in an amount of 15,0 parts and the hydroxyethyl acrylate in an amount of 12,2 parts. The poly caprolactone compound was prepared by means of a tertiary amine having 2 hydroxyl groups and was used in an amount of 29,5 parts. In a subsequent step 3,33 parts of the previously prepared solution of the polyurethane meth acrylate were mixed with 37,3 parts of monobutyl ether of ethylene glycol and the mixture was heated to a temperature of 100 C. Next, a mixture of 31,9 parts of styrene, 11,2 parts of hydroxyethyl acrylate, 8,0 parts of methyl methacrylate, 6,7 parts of dimethylaminoethyl meth acrylate and 1,02 parts of 2.2 azo bis isobutyronitrile was introduced into the reactor in such a way that the temperature of the reactor contents did not rise to above 110 C. After the monomer mixture had been added, the reactor contents were kept at a temperature of 100 C for 1 more hour. Finally, a mixture of 0,6 parts of 2.2 azo bis isobutyronitrile and 1,2 parts of mono butyl ether of ethylene glycol was added to the contents of the reactor in 2 equal portions, each of them over a period of 1 hour, in the process of which and for 2 more hours the reaction mixture was kept at a temperature of 100 C. Obtained was a binder solution having a solids content of 59,6 , which upon dilution with monobutyl ether of ethylene glycol to a solids content of 50 had a Gardner Holdt viscosity of Z₄ Z₅. The preparation, application and baking of a coating composition based on the resulting binder solution were carried out as in dicated in Example 1. The measured properties of the coating are given in the Table.