# Process for producing optically active dichloropropanol using microorganism.

## Abstract
A process for producing optically active di chloropropanol, which comprises cultivating an R 2,3 dichloro 1 propanol assimilating strain belonging to the genus

## Claims
1. A process for producing optically active di chloropropanol, which comprises cultivating an R 2,3 dichloro 1 propanol assimilating strain belonging to the genus Pseudomonas in a culture medium containing racemate 2,3 dichloro 1 propanol, and recovering optical isomer S 2,3 dichloro 1 propanol from the culture broth.

## Description
This invention relates to a novel process for producing an optical isomer, S 2,3 dichloro 1 propanol, known as a synthesis intermediate for optically active epichlorohydrin, medicines and agricultural chemi cals selectively from a known racemate, 2,3 dichloro 1 propanol, in one step with industrial advantage. More specifically, this invention relates to a process for producing optically active dichloropropanol, which comprises cultivating an R 2,3 dichloro 1 propanol assimilating strain belonging to the genus This invention also pertains to a process for producing optically active epichlorohydrin, which com prises reacting the optical isomer S 2,3 dichloro 1 propanol obtained by the above process with an alkali, particularly an alkali metal hydroxide selected from sodium hydroxide and potassium hydroxide. This invention further relates to a pure cul ture of an R 2,3 dichloro 1 propanol assimilating strain belonging to the genus Synthesis of optically active epichlorohydrin is known and described, for example, in J. Org. Chem., vol. 43, page 4876, 1978 Baldwin On the other hand, a method of producing an optically active ester or alcohol has been known which comprises asymmetrically hydrolyzing an ester represented by the following formula These literature references, however, totally fail to refer to the asymmetric hydrolysis of racemate 2,3 dichloro 1 propanol, which is not in an ester form but in an alcohol form, to its optical isomer with the use of a microorganism. Furthermore, none of the micro organisms specifically described in Table 3 of the above cited Japanese Laid Open Patent Publication No. 48888 1981 are microorganisms of the genus The present inventors have made extensive investigations in order to develop a process for producing an optical isomer S 2,3 dichloro 1 propanol from racemate 2,3 dichloro 1 propanol using microorganisms. Consequently, they have succeeded in isolating a microorganism having the ability to assimilate R 2,3 dichloro 1 propanol from the soil. It has been found that this novel strain is an R 2,3 dichloro 1 pro panol assimilating strain belonging to the genus Investigations of the present inventors have shown that it is necessary to contact the strain with the racemate 2,3 dichloro 1 propanol in the culture medium, and if an enzyme is extracted from the above strain and contacted with the racemate 2,3 dichloro 1 propnaol, the optical isomer S 2,3 dichloro 1 propanol cannot formed. It has also been found by the present inventors that if an ester, such as an acetate, of the racemate 2,3 dichloro propanol is used instead of the racemate 2,3 dichioro 1 propanol, the optical isomer can neither be formed. It is an object of this invention therefore to provide a novel process for producing an optically active dichloropropanol by which the optical isomer S 2,3 dichloro 1 propanol can be obtained selectively in one step from the racemate 2,3 dichloro 1 propanol utilizing a microorganism. The above and other objects of this invention along with its advantages will become apparent from the following description. The microbiological characteristics of the strain OS K 29 FERM BP 994 are listed below. The above characteristics have been analyzed with reference to Bergey s Manual of Determinative Bacte riology, 8th edition, and the present strain has been identified as a novel strain belonging to the genus According to the process of this invention, the R 2,3 dichloro 1 propanol assimilating strain belong ing to the genus In the practice of the process of this in vention, there can be used well grown microbial cells obtained by cultivating the R 2,3 dichloro 1 propanol assimilating strain belonging to the genus Preferably, the cultivation of the R 2,3 dichloro 1 propanol assimilating strain of the genus After the cultivation, the optical isomer S 2,3 dichloro 1 propanol may be recovered from the culture broth. This can be effected, for example, by separating the culture broth into microbial cells and the supernatant by means of a suitable solid liquid separat ing procedure such as centrifugal separation, and sepa rating S 2,3 dichloro 1 propanol in the supernatant by treatment with a charcoal column, extraction with ether, distillation under reduced pressure, etc. In the practice of the process of this in vention, the R 2,3 dichloro 1 propanol assimilating strain belonging to the genus According to this invention, there is also provided a process for producing optically active epi chlorohydrin, which comprises reacting the optical isomer S 2,3 dichloro 1 propanol obtained as above with an alkali. This process can be carried out by contacting S 2,3 dichloro 1 propanol with the alkali in an aqueous medium. The reaction temperature may, for ex ample, be about 0 C to room temperature for example, about 30 C Examples of the alkali are alkali metal hydroxides and alkali metal alcoholates. Specific ex amples of the alkali are sodium hydroxide, potassium hydroxide, lithium hydroxide, sodium methylate and sodium ethylate. The following examples illustrate the present invention in more detail. In the following examples, all percentages are by weight unless otherwise specified, and DCH stands for 2,3 dichloro 1 propanol. One platinum looopful of a slant agar culture of The strain was then cultivated under shaking at 30 C for 5 days. The culture broth was then added to a 25 liter jar fermentor containing 20 liters of a culture medium of the above composition, and cultivated with aeration and agitation for 3 days under the following conditions. Temperature 30 C pH 6.5 at the start of cultivation Amount of air passed 20 liters min. Agitation 300 rpm After the cultivation, the culture broth was taken out and subjected to a centrifugal separator to separate it into microbial cells and the supernatant. The super natant containing β DCH was charged onto a column 5 cm in diameter and 90 cm in length packed with charcoal, and the column was eluted with 3 liters of acetone to obtain 1.5 liters of acetone solution containilng β DCH. Acetone was evaporated from this solution until the amount of the solution became 200 ml. Then, 500 ml of ether was added to extract β DCH. The ethereal layer was dried over magnesium sulfate. The ether was then evapo rated, and the residue was distilled to give 6.6 g of an oily substance having a boiling point of 84 C 24 mmHg. The resulting substance was identified by the following method. When the substance was compared with commercial β DCH using PEG 20MP as a column carrier 60 80 mesh , the retention times were quite the same. The purity of the substance was more than 98.2 . The absorption pattern of the substance was quite the same as that of commercial β DCH. The above results led to the determination that the substance obtained in this example was β DCH. By the following methods, this substance was determined to be S β DCH. The specific rotations of commercial β DCH and the present substance were as follows R α methoxy α trifluoromethylphenyl acetate chloride was reacted with each of the present substance and commercial β DCH to prepare its ester derivative. The derivatives were analyzed by liquid chromatography under the following conditions, and the following results were obtained. Column carrier ZORBAXODS, 4.6 mm 25cm made by Du Pont Eluent Methanol water 65 35 V V Amount eluted 1 ml min. Method ot detection absorbance at 260 nm Commercial β DCH Two peaks having the same area were given at a retention time of 50.5 minutes and 52.0 minutes respectively. Present substance A peak was given only at a retention time of 50.5 minutes, and no peak was given at a retention time of 52.0 minutes. One gram of each of commercial β DCH and the present substance and 0.9 g of phenyl isocyanate were added to 30 ml of dry acetone and 0.3 ml of triethyl amine. The mixture was heated under reflux for about 3 hours to prepare dichloropropyl N phenylcarbamate, and its specific rotation was measured. The above results led to the determination that the present substance is S β DCH and its optical purity was more than 99 e.e. Five 500ml Sakaguchi flasks containing 100ml of a culture medium containing 1.0 of meat extract, 1.0 of polypeptone and 0.5 of glucose and having a pH of 7 were sterilized with heated steam in a customary manner. One platinum loopful of a slant agar culture of A 30 liter jar fermentor was charged with 20 liters of a culture medium having the above composition, and sterilized with pressurized steam. The microbial cells grown in each of the flasks were aseptically inocu lated in the jar fermentor and cultivated for 48 hours under the following conditions. Temperature 30 C pH 7.0 at the start of cultivation Amount of air passed 20 liters min. Agitation 300 rpm After the cultivation, the culture broth was subjected to a centrifugal separator and separated into microbial cells and the supernatant. The supernatant was discarded. The remaining microbial cells were washed three to four times with 50mM phosphate buffer pH 6.5 to obtain ashed cells. The washed cells were then sus pended in 20 liters of the culture medium containing racemate β DCH shown in Example 1, and maintained under the following conditions. Temperature 30 C Amount of air passed 20 liters min. Agitation 300 rpm pH 5.5 maintained at this pH by adding 20g of calcium carbonate The above cultivation with aeration and agi tation was carried out for 48 hours after the washed cells were added to the culture medium. The culture broth was again separated into microbial cells and the supernatant by a centrifugal separator. The separation of β DCH from the supernatant was carried out in the same way as in Example 1 to give 7.0g of β DCH. The β DCH obtained was found to be S β DCH having an optical purity of more than 99 e.e. Twenty liters of a culture medium containing 1.0 of meat extract, 2.5 of glucose and 1.0 of poly peptone was put into a 30 liter jar fermentor, and steri lized by heating in a customary manner. Then, After the cultivation, the culture broth was separated into microbial cells and the supernatant by means of a centrifugal separator to give 540g of living cells. Then, the living cells were suspended in a synthetic medium having the following composition to a volume of 10 liters, and then fixed with acrylamide in a customary manner. The immobilized cells were pulverized by a mixer to small fragments each side measuring 0.5 to lmm, and well washed with the synthetic medium. Ammonium sulfate 0.05 Amkmonium nitrate 0.05 Dipotassium hydrogen phosphate 0.1 Monosodium phosphate 0.2 Disodium phosphate 0.1 Magnesium sulfate 0.05 Iron sulfate, copper sulfate and manganese sulfate traces pH 6.8 initial The immobilized cells were put into a 100 liter jar fermentor and the amount of them and the synthetic medium was adjusted to 80 liters. Furthermore, 160ml of racemate β DCH and 150g of calcium carbonate were added, and the cultivation system was agitated under the follow ing conditions. Temperature 30 C Amount of air passed 40 liters min. Agitation 300 rpm Seventy two hours after the initiation of the reaction, the supernatant was separated from the immobi lized cells by filtration. The purification of β DCH from the supernatant was carried out in the same way as in Example 1 by charging the supernatant onto a chacoal column. Subsequent ether extraction and distillation under reduced pressure gave 88g of β DCH. This substance was identified in the same way as in Example 1 by com parison with commercial β DCH. It was found that this substance was S β DCH having an optical purity of at least 99 e.e. Then, 30.8 g of S β DCH, 200ml of a 1.4N aqueous solution of sodium hydroxide and 200ml of ether were mixed in a 100ml flask and vigorously agitated at room temperature for 80 minutes. The ethereal layer was separated, and dried over magnesium sulfate. Ether was evaporated, and the residue was distilled to obtain 9.2g of epichlorohydrin. The purity of epichlorohydrin measured by gas chromatography was more than 99.4 . Its specific rotation was as follows α 34.2 c 3.4, methanol The resulting epichlorohydrin was R epi chlorohydrin having an optical purity of more than 99 e.e. Fourty grams of optically active S 2,3 dichloro 1 propanol α 10.4, c 1.36, methylene chloride optical purity more than 99 e.e. was put into a 300ml Erlenmeyer flask, and while it was vigorously agitated by a magnetic stirrer, 258ml of a 1.5N aqueous solution of sodium hydroxide was added dropwise over the course of 5 minutes. After the addition, the agitation was continued for another 20 minutes. The reaction mixture was then well mixed with 150 ml of ether in a separating funnel. The ethereal layer was separated and dried over magnesium sulfate. Subsequently, epichloro hydrin contained in the ethereal layer was collected by distillation as 16.74g yield 72.0 of a fraction having a boiling point of 115 to 117 C. The resulting epi chlorohydrin had a gas chromatographic purity of more than 98.5 and an optical purity of more than 99 e.e. α 34.0, c 1.2, methanol . The distillation residue was found to be the unreacted 2,3 dichloro 1 propanol 4.3g . It did not at all undergone racemi zation and could be re used.