# Method and means for moving bytes in a reduced instruction set computer

## Claims
Ein Computergerät, mit

## Description
In a prior art computer with microprogramming, the control section of such a computer generally is provided with an autonomous read only storage. Each time a program instruction begins, the control unit generates an address to its read only storage derived from the function or operation code of the instruction. This address locates what may be the first of a series of words which supply the control signals to the computer for carrying out the particular instruction being processed. Each instruction in effect generates a transfer to a microsubroutine associated with it, and the resultant step by step operation of the machine corresponds to the execution of a program on a very detailed level. In such a computer in the prior art, program instructions generally comprise an operation code, Also in a prior art computer, the memory of the computer provides the largest hardware cost. Therefore, the key to hardware speed and minimum size lies in efficient use of the memory. Fixed instruction length computers require the same number of bits for each instruction word regardless of the simplicity or complexity of the operation to be executed. As an example, many bits can be wasted in instructions which specify simple operations, while many instructions can be wasted in complex operations where an instruction s capability is limited by its length. Therefore, it is desired to design a computer with an instruction set which can perform all applications most efficiently. To increase the efficiency of microprogramming in the prior art, the concept of optimizing compilers is used and implemented 1 to compile programming languages down to instructions that are as unencumbered as microinstructions in a large virtual address space and 2 to make the instruction cycle time as fast as the technology would allow. Computers having such optimized compilers are designed to have fewer instructions than those in the prior art, and what few instructions they do have are simple and would generally execute in one cycle. Such computers have been aptly named Specifically, one of the most common operations performed on a computer is moving a string of bytes, or words, from one address to another in memory. Because of the frequency of this operation, it is important to make it efficient. But because of the diversity in the exact form of the operation, diversity of fixed or variable lengths and addresses and diversity of lengths and alignments, it is difficult to find a uniform mechanism to perfom this operation efficiently, even though in practice very few of the variations may be used with any frequency see i.a. G.A. KATEVENIS Reduced Instruction Set Computer Architectures for VLSI 1985, pages 177 199, MIT Press . In the prior art, one approach has been to specify one or two instructions that move bytes from a source to a destination. The options available, however, are very limited so are the specifications of operands. Because of the number of options that has to be specified, Furthermore, a similar problem occurs in a virtual memory system because of the long execution times. There, the problem of page faults occur instead of those of interrupts. The control necessary to solve these problems add cost and complexity to the hardware. In short, additional complexity in data paths and controls for optimizing the execution of such operations, even if only to optimize operations of the most frequently occurring variations, is unavoidably introduced. Alternatively, a non hardware support approach can be used to solve these problems. In such a situation, however, the operations would result in unacceptably long execution times. The references entitled The Motorola MC 68000 Microprocessor Family by T. L. Harman and published by Prentice Hall Inc. discloses a computer device with an instruction sequence for moving data from a register to a memory. The invention provides a computer device comprising The invention also provides a method of moving bytes of a word into memory according to a single instruction sequence, which instruction sequence includes In accordance with the preferred embodiment of the invention, a basic instruction for moving a string of bytes has been devised to solve these problems. Because the operations in the instruction are basic, very few variations are necessary to accommodate diversity of lengths and variables. Instruction for these operations are imbedded in a code sequence the compiler can therefore generate exactly the minimum sequence necessary to perform the operations and can precompute many of the operands at compile time. The control necessary to optimize the operations is then in the compiler instead of the hardware, thereby avoiding the above enumerated disadvantage of a hardware approach solution. As a consequence of all these factors, the instruction is implemented as a single cycle operation. In other words, another instruction can be initiated within one cycle of the previous instruction without any impediment of lockout . An embodiment of the invention will now be described with reference to the accompanying drawing. Figure 1 shows the format of an instruction exemplifying an embodiment of the invention. Figure 2 shows an apparatus for implementing the instruction in accordance with the invention. The operation of the instruction in accordance with the preferred embodiment of the invention is generated by a code sequence. Hence no special control is needed to handle I O interrupts or page faults. The byte move basic instruction requires very little hardware over and above that already necessary for other operations it therefore will execute as fast or faster than hardware assisted instructions for most frequent operations. The basic instruction is a store operation that stores corresponding bytes from a source register into memory, either storing the portion of the word starting at the instruction specified byte address to the end of the word, or storing the portion of the word from the start to the specified byte address. All of the normal indexed store options, such as cache control, instruction modification, and the like, are available with the operation. The instruction handles the beginning and ending cases for byte moves, but does require an extra alignment instruction for each word moved in cases of unaligned moves. The operation of the store instruction follows. If begin is specified by having a modifier , B correspond to an operation identifier field a 0 in the instruction, the low order bytes of the contents of a general register t are stored into memory starting at the byte whose address is given by an effective address contained in the instruction. If end is specified by having a modifier , E correspond to the operation identifier field a 1 in the instruction, the high order bytes of the contents of the general register t are stored into memory starting at the high order byte in the word specified by the effective address. This process continues until the byte specified by the effective address is reached though not included. When the effective address specifies the high order byte in a word, nothing is stored, but protection is still checked. If address modification is specified, a general register b is updated to a word address. As an example of a byte move basic instruction set in accordance with the invention, the instruction STORE BYTES STBYS 140 is described. The instruction STBYS 140 is denoted as follows The instruction STBYS 140 is implemented as follows Figure 2 shows a cache memory as part of a system in a computer device for implementing the instruction for moving bytes in accordance with the invention. But before proceeding, it should be understood what a cache memory is. A cache is basically a high speed buffer that stores a limited amount of the information that is in the main memory. The cache memory typically is in an area close to the processing unit of the computer device where it can be accessed quickly. It is much smaller than the main memory and as such has only a very small protion of the data involved in the computer device. Every time that the processing unit issues an instruction to the main memory, the cache is checked to see whether the data being referenced is actually there in the cache. It does this by comparing a portion of the address called a tag with the tag portion that is in the cache. If the two match, the data is actually present in the cache, and that constitutes a cache hit . If the tag in the address does not compare with the tag that is in the cache, the data being referenced is not in the cache, and the reference must be accessed from the main memory. This situation contitutes a cache miss . In Figure 2, data from a data register 221 goes to the byte inputs 223 of a cache 220. Specifically, byte 0 225 of the data register 221 goes to the data input port 224 of byte 0 226 of the cache 223. Similarly, byte 1 227 of the data register 221 goes to the data input port 229 of byte 1 228. Likewise, byte 2 230 goes to the input port 231 of byte 2 233 of the cache 220 and byte 3 234 goes to the input port 235 of byte 3 236 of the cache 223. The address 236 that is generated within the instruction is divided up by the cache 220 into several parts 237 239. The portion 239 that accesses the byte within the word is directed to a write control unit 240. The next higher portion 238 of the address 236 towards a more significant end of the address 236 is an index for accessing the tags out of the tag portion 242 of the cache 223. This index portion 238 is also used to specify an address 243 to each of the bytes 226, 228, 232, 233 to result in a byte that will the one written if there is a write enable pulse. The highest portion 237 of the address 236 is the tag 246 from the address 236 which is compared with the tag 248 that comes out of the tag portion 242 of the cache 223. If the comparison at a comparator means 250 within the cache 223 shows the two tags 246, 248 to be equal, there is a cache hit. If there is no cache hit, If there is a hit, the bits taken from the byte within the word portion 239 of the address 236 is checked, then combined with the particular operation at hand, whether it be the begin copy case or the end copy case as described earlier, to determine which write enables 255 are sent to the various bytes 226, 228, 232 233. In this manner, a portion of the word within the cache is written as a function of the address 236. In the case of a cache miss, the data will be fetched from the main memory and put into the cache 223, and the entire operation described in the second preceding paragraph will be retried. At that point, a cache hit is assured and normal operation continues in the computer device.