# BENZOTHIAZINE DIOXIDE DERIVATIVES

## Abstract
Benzothiazine anti inflammatory agents of the formula

## Claims
1. A compound of the formula wherein R is 2 pyridyl, 6 methyl 2 pyridyl, 6 fluoro 2 pyridyl, 6 chloro 2 pyridyl, 5 methyl 3 isoxazolyl or 2 thiazolyl Y is 4 isobutylphenyl, 3 phenoxyphenyl, 3 benzoylphenyl, 2 acetoxyphenyl, 6 methoxynaphth 2 yl or 2 fluoro 4 biphenylyl Z is CH CH or S and n is zero or one, with the proviso that n is one when Y is other than 2 acetoxyphenyl and n is zero when Y is 2 acetoxyphenyl.

## Description
This invention relates to new and useful benzo thiazine dioxide derivatives. More particularly, it is concerned with certain novel 2 acetoxybenzoyl and ring substituted α arylpropionyl derivatives of 4 hydroxy 2 methyl N 2 pyridinyl 2H 1,2 benzothiazine 3 carboxamide 1,1 dioxide and several other closely related oxicams, which are of especial value in view of their unique chemotherapeutic properties. In the past, various attempts have been made to obtain new and better anti inflammatory agents. For the most part, these efforts have involved the synthesis and testing of various steroidal compounds such as the corticosteroids or non steroidal substances of an acidic nature such as phenylbutazone, indomethacin and the like, including a new agent known as piroxicam. The latter substance is a member of a class of anti in flammatory analgesic N heteroaryl 4 hydroxy 2 methyl 2H 1,2 benzothiazine 3 carboxamide 1,1 dioxides known as oxicams described and claimed in U.S. Patent No. 3,591,584 and is specifically, 4 hydroxy 2 methyl N 2 pyridinyl 2H 1,2 benzothiazine 3 carboxamide 1,1 dioxide. Other agents of this type are disclosed in U.S. Patent Nos. 3,787,324, 3,822,258, 4,180,662 and 4,376,768. In U.S. Patent No. 4,434,164, there are specifically described and claimed the ethylenediamine, monoethanolamine and diethanolamine salts of 4 hydroxy 2 methyl N 2 pyridinyl 2H 1,2 benzothiazine 3 carboxamide 1,1 dioxide, which are particularly valuable in pharmaceutical dosage forms as non steroidal therapeutic agents for the treatment of painful in flammatory conditions, such as those caused by rheumatoid arthritis, since they are all crystalline, non hygroscopic, rapidly dissolving solids with high water solubility. In U.S. Patent No. 4,309,427, there are disclosed certain novel acyl derivatives of 4 hydroxy 2 methyl N 2 pyridinyl 2H 1,2 benzothiazine 3 carboxamine 1,1 dioxide and 4 hydroxy 2 methyl N 6 methyl 2 pyridinyl 2H 1,2 benzothiazine 3 carboxamide 1,1 dioxide, which are useful as non steroidal therapeutic agents for alleviating various inflammatory conditions, including those of the skin, especially when given by the topical route of administration. However, in the continuing search for still more improved anti inflammatory analgesic agents, there is a need for anti arthritic agents that are orally administrable and yet at the same time are less ulcerogenic than the parent oxicam compounds of the prior art. In accordance with the present invention, it has now been found that certain novel 2 acetoxybenzoyl and ring substituted α arylpropionyl derivatives of 4 hydroxy 2 methyl N 2 pyridinyl 2H 1,2 benzothiazine 3 carboxamide 1,1 dioxide and several other closely related known oxicams are useful in therapy as non steroidal therapeutic agents for alleviating painful inflammatory conditions such as those caused by rheumatoid arthritis, for example. The novel compounds of this invention are of the formula The compounds of this invention are useful in therapy, as aforesaid, as valuable non steroidal therapeutic agents for the treatment of painful in flammatory conditions, especially those caused by rheumatoid arthritis, and are particularly adapted for use in various pharmaceutical dosage forms, including those designed for oral, topical and parenteral ad ministration. Moreover, the anti inflammatory compounds of this invention are unusual in that they lack cyclo oxygenase inhibitory activity and are less ulcerogenic than the parent acidic oxicams from which they are derived. Additionally, hydrolysis of these novel products Of especial interest in this connection are such typical and preferred member compounds of the invention as 4 2 acetoxybenzoyloxy 2 methyl N 2 pyridinyl 2H 1,2 benzothiazine 3 carboxamide 1,1 dioxide, 4 α 4 isobutylphenyl propionyloxy 2 methyl N 2 pyridinyl 2H 1,2 benzothiazine 3 carboxamide 1,1 dioxide, 4 α 3 benzoylphenyl propionyloxy 2 methyl N 2 pyridinyl 2H 1,2 benzothiazine 3 carboxamide 1,1 dioxide, In the process for preparing the novel compounds of this invention, the parent oxicam compound of the formula The reaction is conveniently followed by thin layer chromatography, thereby determining reaction times sufficient to provide complete reaction and at the same time avoiding unnecessary heating costs and excessive reaction time, which can increase the level of by products and reduce yields. The starting materials required for preparing the novel 2 acetoxybenzoyl and ring substituted α arylpro pionyl derivatives of this invention are all known compounds. For instance, 4 hydroxy 2 methyl N 2 pyridinyl 2H 1,2 benzothiazine 3 carboxamide 1,1 dioxide, 4 hydroxy 2 methyl N 6 methyl 2 pyridinyl 2H 1,2 benzothiazine 3 carboxamide 1,1 dioxide and 4 hydroxy 2 methyl N 2 thiazolyl 2H 1,2 benzothiazine 3 carboxamide 1,1 dioxide are all fully described in U.S. Patent No. 3,591,584 to J. G. Lombardino, as well as in the paper to J. G. Lombardino et al., appearing in the The acyl halide compounds employed as acylating agents in the herein described process of this invention, on the other hand, are essentially new compounds, which are prepared by treating the corres ponding organic acids with an appropriate halogenating agent like thionyl chloride or bromide, or oxalyl chloride, in accordance with the conventional methods of organic synthesis as hereinafter described in the experimental section of this specification. see Preparations A F . The organic acid starting materials from which the acyl halides are derived are all known drugs and are identified in Preparations A F. The novel 2 acetoxybenzoyl and ring substituted α arylpropionyl oxicam esters of the present invention are all readily adapted to therapeutic use as anti arthritic agents. For instance, 4 α 3 benzoyl phenyl propionyloxy 2 methyl N 2 pyridinyl 2H 1,2 benzothiazine 3 carboxamide 1,1 dioxide, a typical and preferred agent of the present invention, exhibits anti inflammatory activity in the standard carrageenin induced rat food edema test described by C. A. Winter et al., The herein described oxicam esters of this invention can be administered The oxicam esters of this invention may be ad ministered alone or in combination with pharmaceutically acceptable carriers by either of the three routes previously indicated. More particularly, the novel therapeutic agents of the invention can be administered in a wide variety of different dosage forms, i.e., they may be combined with various pharmaceutically acceptable inert carriers in the form of tablets, capsules, lozenges, troches, hard candies, powders, sprays, creams, salves, suppositories, jellies, pastes, lotions, ointments, aqueous suspensions, injectable solutions, elixirs, syrups, and the like. Such carriers include solid diluents or fillers, sterile aqueous media and various non toxic organic solvents, etc. Moreover, oral pharmaceutical compositions can be suitably sweetened and or flavored. In general, the therapeutically effective compounds of this invention are present in such dosage forms at concentration levels ranging from about 0.5 to about 90 by weight. For oral administration, tablets containing various excipients such as microcrystalline cellulose, sodium citrate, calcium carbonate, dicalcium phosphate and glycine may be employed along with various disintegrants such as starch and preferably corn, potato or tapioca starch, alginic acid and certain complex silicates, together with granulation binders like polyvinyl pyrrolidone, sucrose, gelatin and acacia. Additionally, lubricating agents such as magnesium sterarate, sodium lauryl sulfate and talc are often very useful for tabletting purposes. Solid compositions of a similar type may also be employed as fillers in gelatin capsules preferred materials also include lactose or milk sugar as well as high molecular weight polyethylene glycols. When aqueous suspensions and or elixirs are desired for oral administration, the active ingredient may be combined with various sweetening or flavoring agents, coloring matter or dyes, and, if so desired, emulsifying and or suspending agents as well, together with such diluents as water, ethanol, propylene glycol, glycerin and various like combinations thereof. For parenteral administration, solutions of these oxicam esters in either sesame or peanut oil or in aqueous propylene glycol may be employed. The aqueous solutions should be suitably buffered pH 8 if necessary and the liquid diluent first rendered isotonic. These aqueous solutions are suitable for intravenous injection purposes. The oily solutions are suitable for intra articular, intramuscular and subcutaneous injection purposes. Additionally, it is also possible to administer the aforesaid oxicam esters topically when treating inflammatory conditions of the skin or eye and this may be preferably done by way of creams, jellies, pastes, ointments, solutions and the like, in accordance with standard pharmaceutical practice. The anti inflammatory activity of the compounds of the present invention is demonstrated in the previously mentioned standard carrageenin induced rate foot edema test. In this test, anti inflammatory activity is determined as the percent inhibition of edema formation in the hind paw of male albino rats weighing 150 190g. in response to a sub plantar injection of carrageenin. The carrageenin is injected as a 1 aqueous suspension 0.05 ml. one hour after oral administration of the drug, which is normally given in the form of an aqueous solution. Edema formation is then assessed by measuring the volume of the injected paw initially as well as three hours after the carrageenin injection. The increase in volume three hours after carrageenin injection constitutes the individual response. Compounds are considered active if the difference in response between the drug treated animals six rats group and a control group receiving the vehicle alone is significant on comparison with the results afforded by a standard compound like phenyl butazone at 33 mg. kg., To a well stirred suspension consisting of 10.0 g. 0.0555 mole of acetylsalicylic acid aspirin in 100 ml. of methylene chloride, there were added in a dropwise manner 14.1 g. 0.111 mole of oxalyl chloride 9.68 ml. dissolved in 20 ml. of methylene chloride. The resulting reaction mixture was then refluxed for a period of two hours and finally cooled to room tempera ture 20 C. . The clear colorless solution so obtained was concentrated To a well stirred solution consisting of 3.1 g. 0.015 mole of α 4 isobutylphenyl propionic acid ibuprofen dissolved in 200 ml. of methylene chloride, there were added 3.8 g. 0.030 mole of oxalyl chloride. The resulting reaction mixture was refluxed for a period of two hours and then cooled to room temperature. The clear colorless solution so obtained was thereafter concentrated To 500 mg. 0.002 mole of α 3 benzoylphenyl propionic acid ketoprofen , there were added 8.21 g. 0.069 mole of thionyl chloride 5 ml. to form a clear yellow solution. The latter mixture was then heated under a reflux for a period of one hour and finally cooled to room temperature. The clear green solution so obtained was concentrated To 3.0 g. 0.0130 mole of To 500 mg. 0.00189 mole of α 3 phenoxyphenyl propionic acid fenoprofen , there were cautiously added 7.23 g. 0.057 mole of oxalyl chloride 5 ml. to form an almost clear mixture. The latter mixture after the initial vigorous reaction had subsided was then heated under reflux for a period of one hour to form a suspension, followed by the addition of 5 ml. of thionyl chloride to the resulting cooled suspension. The new reaction mixture thus obtained was then heated under reflux for a period of one hour to give a grey solution and finally cooled to room temperature. The latter solution was concentrated To 500 mg. 0.00205 mole of α 2 fluoro 4 biphenylyl propionic acid flurbiprofen , there were added 8.21 g. 0.069 mole of thionyl chloride 5 ml. to form a clear yellow solution. The latter mixture was then heated under reflux for a period of one hour and finally cooled to room temperature. The clear yellow solution so obtained was thereafter concentrated To a well stirred solution consisting of 6.5 g. 0.019 mole of 4 hydroxy 2 methyl N 2 pyridinyl 2H 1,2 benzothiazine 3 carboxamide 1,1 dioxide prepared as described in U.S. Patent No. 3,591,584 dissolved in 200 ml. of methylene chloride containing 2.82 g. 0.028 mole of triethylamine 3.87 ml. under a dry nitrogen atmosphere, there was added in a dropwise manner a solution consisting of 5.76 g. 0.029 mole of 2 acetoxybenzoyl chloride the product of Preparation A dissolved in 20 ml. of methylene chloride. The result ing mixture was stirred at room temperature 20 C. for a period of 18 hours. At this point, the reaction mixture was successively extracted three times with saturated aqueous sodium bicarbonate solution and one time with saturated aqueous sodium chloride. The organic layer was then dried over anhydrous magnesium sulfate, filtered and evaporated to give a red brown foam. The latter material was then placed on a silica gel column and eluted with methylene chloride ethyl acetate 4 1 by volume to effect the desired separation. Upon evaporation of the desired eluate, there was obtained crude product material which was thereafter triturated with diethyl ether ethyl acetate 9 1 by volume to eventually yield a white solid product. The latter solid was filtered and recrystallized twice from ethyl acetate to finally afford 442 mg. 4 of pure 4 2 acetoxybenzoyloxy 2 methyl N 2 pyridinyl 2H 1,2 benzothiazine 3 carboxamide 1,1 dioxide, m.p. 170 173 C. The pure product was further characterized by means of thin layer chromatography and infrared absorption spectra, in addition to elemental analysis. To a well stirred solution consisting of 3.8 g. 0.0115 mole of 4 hydroxy 2 methyl N 2 pyridinyl 2H 1,2 benzothiazine 3 carboxamide 1,1 dioxide dissolved in 200 ml. of methylene chloride containing 1.52 g. 0.015 mole of triethylamine 209 ml. under a dry nitrogen atmosphere, there was added in a dropwise manner a solution consisting of 3.37 g. 0.015 mole of α 4 isobutylphenyl propionyl chloride the product of Pre peration B dissolved in 25 ml. of methylene chloride. The resulting reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for a period of 18 hours. At this point, the reaction mixture was successively extracted two times with saturated aqueous sodium bicarbonate solution and one time with saturated aqueous sodium chloride. The organic layer was then dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate, filtered and the resulting filtrate was subsequently concentrated To a well stirred solution consisting of 460 mg. 0.00139 mole of 4 hydroxy 2 methyl N 2 pyridinyl 2H 1,2 benzothiazine 3 carboxamide 1,1 dioxide piroxicam dissolved in 35 ml. of methylene chloride containing 197 mg. 0.00195 mole of triethylamine 0.27 ml. under a dry nitrogen atmosphere, there was added in a dropwise manner a solution consisting of 545 mg. 0.002 mole of α 3 benzoylphenyl propionyl chloride the product of Preparation C dissolved in 15 ml. of methylene chloride. The resulting reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for a period of four hours. At this point, the reaction mixture was successively extracted two times with saturated aqueous sodium bicarbonate solution and one time with saturated aqueous sodium chloride. The organic layer was then dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate, filtered and the resulting filtrate was subsequently concentrated To a well stirred solution consisting of 1.14 g. 0.00345 mole of 4 hydroxy 2 methyl N 2 pyridinyl 2H 1,2 benzothiazine 3 carboxamide 1,1 dioxide dissolved in 75 ml. of methylene chloride containing 484 mg. 0.0048 mole of triethylamine 0.67 ml. under a dry nitrogen atmosphere, there was added in a dropwise manner a solution consisting of 1.2 g. 0.0048 mole of To a well stirred solution consisting of 450 mg. 0.00135 mole of 4 hydroxy 2 methyl N 2 pyridinyl 2H 1,2 benzothiazine 3 carboxamide 1,1 dioxide dissolved in 50 ml. of methylene chloride containing 191 mg. 0.00189 mole of triethylamine 0.26 ml. under a dry nitrogen atmosphere, there was added in a dropwise manner a solution consisting of 492 mg. 0.00189 mole of α 3 phenoxyphenyl propionyl chloride the product of Preparation E dissolved in 25 ml. of methylene chloride. The resulting reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for four hours. At this point, the reaction mixture was successively extracted two times with saturated aqueous sodium bicarbonate solution and one time with saturated aqueous sodium chloride. The organic layer was then dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate, filtered and concentrated to give a red brown oil. The latter material was then placed on a column of silica gel and eluted with methylene chloride ethyl acetate 9 1 by volume to effect the desired separa tion. Upon evaporation of the desired eluate, there was obtained essentially pure product in the form of a yellow oil that was later placed under a high vacuum for a period of three hours. In this way, there was ultimately obtained 230 mg. 31 pure 2 methyl 4 α 3 phenoxyphenyl propionyloxy N 2 pyridinyl 2H 1,2 benzothiazine 3 carboxamide 1,1 dioxide hydrate m.p. 80 85 C. in the form of a yellow white foam. The pure product was further characterized by means of mass spectroscopy, thin layer chromatography and infrared absorption spectra, in addition to elemental analysis. To a well stirred solution consisting of 485 mg. 0.00146 mole of 4 hydroxy 2 methyl N 2 pyridinyl 2H 1,2 benzothiazine 3 carboxamide 1,1 dioxide dissolved in 35 ml. of methylene chloride containing 207 mg. 0.00205 mole of triethylamine 0.29 ml. under a nitrogen atmosphere, there was added in a dropwise manner a solution consisting of 539 mg. 0.00205 mole of α 2 fluoro 4 biphenylyl propionyl chloride the product of Preparation F dissolved in 15 ml. of methylene chloride. Upon completion of this step, the resulting reaction was stirred at room temperature for four hours. At this point, the reaction mixture was successively extracted two times with saturated aqueous sodium bicarbonate solution and one time with saturated aqueous sodium chloride. The organic layer was then dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate, filtered and the resulting filtrate was subsequently concentrated