# Switching device.

## Abstract
A composite transistor comprising a cascade arrangement of a bipolar transistor Q1 and field effect transistor Q2 serves to control supply of a load current I

## Claims
1. A switching device comprising a first bipolar transistor having its collector emitter main conductive path connected in series with the main conductive path of a second transistor having a control electrode for receiving an ON OFF control signal voltage for switching ON and OFF the second transistor so as to open and close the series connected main conductive paths for controlling the supply of a load current, connections being provided for supplying base current to the first transistor, a third transistor having its main conductive path connected across said base current supply connections, said third transistor having its control electrode arranged to receive a signal synchronised with said ON OFF control signal voltage such that when said second transistor is turned ON, said third transistor is turned OFF and when said second transistor is turned OFF, said third transistor is turned ON.

## Description
This invention relates to a switching device comprising two transistors, that is, a first bipolar transistor and a second field effect or bipolar transistor. In the following description and in the drawings, identical reference numerals are used in relation to identical or corresponding components. Binary digital levels high , low are indicated only by H and L . A prior art arrangement and problems associated with it will now be described with reference to Fig. 2 in which is shown one embodiment of a circuit comprising two transistors in a so called cascade arrangement. Referring to Fig. 2, a main bipolar transistor Q1 hereinafter referred to as a BPT , a field effect transistor Q2 hereinafter referred to as an FET and a zener diode ZD1 are interconnected as shown in an arangement referred to herein as a composite transistor. The collector G1 and the emitter E1 of the BPT Q1, and the drain D and the source S of the FET Q2 are connected in series at the emitter E and the drain D to enable current supplied to a load not shown to be switched ON OFF for the sake of convenience, this current is reffered to herein as the collector current . Further, the transistors Q1 and Q2 are collectively referred to as a composite transistor for the sake of the convenience. The zener diode ZD1 is connected between the base B1 of the BPT Q1 and the source S of the FET Q2 in such a way that the side of the base B1 comprises the cathode side of the diode. An ON OFF signal voltage e The circuit is arranged to provide a composite switching element at high speed and high voltage endurance by the combination of high speed and low voltage endurance characteristics of the FET Q2 and low speed and high endurance bipolar characteristics of the transistor Q1 taking notice of the fact that the switching speed of an FET is generally greater than that of a bipolar transistor. Referring first to the case of turning the composite transistor Q1 and Q2 ON, since the FET Q2 is connected to the emitter E1 of the BPT Q1 to enable the base current I When turning OFF the composite transistor Q1 and Q2, an ON OFF signal voltage e In this case, the zener diode ZD1 is used in the transferring path as described above, so as to maintain the voltage VDS between the drain and the source of the FET Q2 to lower than a limit voltage capable of turning off switching inhibition voltage BVDS upon turning OFF the FET Q2, that is, upon transfer of the collector current I However, the device shown in Fig. 2 has the disadvantage that when the FET Q2 turns OFF and the accumulated base carriers of the BPT Q1 discharge through the zener diode ZD1, the latter generates considerable heat because it has a high threshold voltage and therefore an expensive element which is resistive to such heat must be used as the zener diode ZD1. It is an object of the present invention to provide a switching device which ameliorates such problems and reduces heat losses in an economical manner. According to this invention there is provided a switching device comprising a first bipolar transistor having its collector emitter main conductive path connected in series with the main conductive path of a second transistor having a control electrode for receiving an ON OFF control signal voltage for switching ON and OFF the second transistor so as to open and close the series connected main conductive paths for controlling the supply of a load current, connections being provided for supplying base current to the first transistor, a third transistor having its main conductive path connected across said base current supply connections, said third transistor having its control electrode arranged to receive a signal synchronised with said ON OFF control signal voltage such that when said second transistor is turned ON, said third transistor is turned OFF and when said second transistor is turned OFF, said third transistor is turned ON. Embodiments of the present invention will now be described, by way of example, with reference to the accompanying drawings in which In Fig. 1 A there is shown a modified form of the switching device shown in Fig. 2 in which a PNP type auxiliary transistor Q3 is provided instead of the zener diode ZD1. The emitter E3 of the transistor Q3 is connected to the base of the BPT Q1 and the base B3 is connected to the gate G of the FET Q2. The base B3 of the auxiliary transistor Q3 is thus driven, together with the gate G of FET Q2, by the common ON OFF signal e In this circuit, when the ON OFF signal e When the signal voltage e In this case, a collector emitter voltage VCD sat when the auxiliary transistor Q3 is ON is lower than the threshold voltage of said zener diode ZD1 and heat losses are thereby reduced. In Fig. 1 B there is shown a modified form of the device shown in Fig. 2 where the same effect can be obtained by utilizing two NPN auxiliary transistors Q3A, Q4 in place of the single PNP auxiliary transistor Q3. In this case, the collector C3A and emitter E3A of the transistor Q3A are respectively connected to the base B1 of the BPT Q1 and the Source S of the FET Q2. In this circuit, when the ON OFF signal voltage e In modified forms of the embodiment, the same operation is carried out even when the FET Q2 is a bipolar transistor and the auxiliary transistors Q3, Q3A are field effect transistors. The emboximents shown in Figs. 1 A and 1 B provide the following advantages over the device shown in Fig. 2 The embodiments described above provide a switching device comprising a first bipolar transistor Q1 having its collector emitter main conductive path C1E1 connected in series with the main conductive path DS of a second transistor Q2 having a control electrode G for receiving an ON OFF control signal voltage e