# Passivation of InP by plasma deposited phosphorus and effects of surface treatment thereon.

## Abstract
Pnictide thin films, particularly phosphorus, grown on III V semiconductors, particularly InP, Gap, and GaAs, are amorphous and have a novel layer like, puckered sheet like local order. The thin films are typically 400 Angstroms 4 x 10⁶cms thick and grown preferably by molecular beam deposition, although other processes, such as vacuum evaporation, sputtering, chemical vapour deposition and deposition from a liquid melt, may be used. The layers are grown on the 100 110 and 111 surfaces of the III V crystals. The pnictide layer reduces the density of surface states, and allows the depletion layer to be modulated, the surface barrier reduced, the electron concentration at the surface increased, and there is a decrease in the surface recombination velocity and an increase in the photoluminescence intensity. The layers may be utilized in MIS and metal semiconductor Schottky devices, for example, to insulate and passivate MISFETS, to passivate MESFETS, to reduce the surface current component of the reverse bias dark current in P I N and avalanche diodes, and to improve performance of opto electronic devices, such as light emitting diodes, lasers, solar cells, photo cathodes and photo detectors. The pnictide layer may be applied to intermetallic and compound semiconductors having a pnictide component. The pnictides may be phosphorus, arsenic, antimony or bismuth, or combinations thereof.

## Claims
1. A method of reducing the density of surface states of InP near the conduction band characterised in that it comprises depositing an amorphous phosphorus film thereon in an RF plasma.

## Description
This invention relates to passivation of InP by plasma deposited phosphorus and effects of surface treatment thereon. More particularly, it relates to the passivation and insulation of III V devices with pnictides, particularly amorphous pnictides having a layer like puckered sheet like structure compound, intermetallic semiconductros, particularly III V semiconductors to pnictide and polypnictides, particularly phosphorus and polyphosphides to MIS and metal semiconductor schottky devices, particularly MISFETS and MESFETS to light absorbing diodes, particularly P I N and avalanche detector diodes, solar cells, and photo cathodes and to light emitting diodes, and lasers. For further information, reference may be made to, for example, GB A 2,113,663 EP A 132322, 130803, 132323, 132326, 132954, 153170, 153169, 153526, 152669, 154072, 153525 and 152668. III V semiconductors have desirable properties of higher carrier mobility than silicon. They have been successfully employed in metal semiconductor Schottky devices, but have not been commercially employed in the more widely useful metal insulator semiconductor MIS devices. A reason for this is that the native oxides of the III V materials do not form thermodynamically stable layers thereon in the way that silicon dioxide layers may be formed on silicon to form MIS devices. Silicon oxynitride and Si₃N₄ have been used as an insulating layer on III V materials with limited success. The passivation of III V semiconductors has been a problem for the same reasons. Thus it is highly desirable to find a material and a means of producing it, which readily forms an insulating and passivating layer on III V materials and thus provide the basis for the information of MIS and Schottky devices, particularly MISFETS and MESFETS. Similarly, it is desirable to reduce the surface component of currents in III V opto electronic devices by passivating the surface thereof. It is also desirable to decrease the carrier recombination velocity at the surface of III V opto electronic devices. It has been discovered that insulating, passivating and surface recombination velocity reducing pnictide rich layers may be formed on III V semiconductor substrates by various methods that pnictide rich layers may be formed on various substrates. These include vacuum co evaporation, sputtering, chemical vapour deposition, two source vapour transport, deposition from a liquid melt and molecular beam deposition, which produces the best results. In particular, an alkali metal polyphosphide layer, namely KP₁₅, has been deposited on gallium arsenide, and gallium phosphide, indium phosphide and Si. There have also been deposited insulating and passivating layers of high x alkali metal polyphosphides having the formula MP Elemental phosphorus layers have also been deposited on substrates of gallium arsenide, gallium phosphide and indium phosphide using these same processes. It is fully expected that other III V semiconductors may also be used as substrates. It is contemplated that other high pnictide polypnictides, particularly alkali metal polypnictides and other elemental pnictides comprising Group V atoms will also form useful insulating layers and semiconductors comprising a pnictide. These pnictide materials are insulators or very high resistivity semiconductors, good film formers, and the pnictides, being group V materials, provide chemical continuity, matching order, and adhesion to the group V atoms of the group V containing semiconductors. The present insulating layers have a resistivity of greater than 10 ¹⁰ ohm cm. which is greater than the resisitivity of the III V materials. Another Si₃N₄ layer has successfully been added on top of a pnictide layer of III V materials to provide a higher breakdown voltage. The amorphous layers employed have a local order not found before in amorphous pnictide films deposited on a III V substrate. This is a layer like puckered sheet like structure similar to black phosphorus. This structure apparently forms at low effective energies at the surface during the deposition. Thus, in vacuum evaporation and molecular beam deposition when the surface is kept below approximately 200 C this new layer like puckered sheet amorphous polyphosphide material forms. Similarly, at low energies and at temperatures below approximately 300 C the same material forms in a sputterer. The material is formed by deposition from excess phosphorus supplied as P₄ vapour, which is cracked to P₂ vapour by a heated cracker in the case of vacuum deposition and molecular beam deposition and is cracked by the plasma in a sputterer. The surface layers according to the present invention reduce the density of surface states, allow modulation of the depletion layer, reduce the surface barrier, increase the surface electron concentration, and increase the photoluminescence intensity and decrease the surface carrier recombination velocity. The pnictide layers according to the present invention may be used to insulate and passivate MIS and Schottky devices, particularly MISFETS and MESFETS, to reduce the surface current between different layers in III V devices, such as the dark current in reverse biased light detecting diodes, particularly P I N and avalanche diodes, and to increase the efficiency of light emitting and light collecting opto electronic devices, particularly solar cells, photocathodes, light emitting diodes, lasers, and photo detectors. It is therefore an object of the present invention to provide insulating layers for semiconductors comprising pnictides. Another object of the present invention is to provide passivating layers for semiconductors comprising pnictides. A further object of the present invention is to provide a new form of amorphous pnictide. Still another object of the present invention is to provide improved MIS and Schottky devices, including MISFETS and MESFETS. A still further object of the present invention is to provide improved opto electronic devices, including light emitting and light collecting devices, such as P I N and avalanche diodes, solar cells, photocathodes, light emitting diodes and lasers. In one embodiment, the present invention relates to a method of reducing the density of surface states of InP near the conduction band characterised in that it comprises depositing an amorphous phosphorus film thereon in an RF plasma. In another embodiment, the present invention relates to a method of depositing an amorphous phosphorus film on an InP surface characterised in that it comprises treating the surface of InP with HIO₃ or hydrazine. This last mentioned method may further include the step of sputter etching, the interface of the said InP and the said phosphorus film to provide an oxygen free interface. Such sputter etching may be conducted for about 5 minutes and in the range of 50 100 eV, for example by this method, the density of surface state of InP may be increased. The method may result in the movement of the Fermi level at the P InP interface. With or without the sputter etching step, according to this method the combination of a P layer and the said surface treatment may provide passivation of InP required for opto electronic devices. The present invention also relates to an opto electronic device characterised in that it is formed from an InP substrate treated with HIO₃ or hydrazine and a layer of P film deposited on the said InP substrate. For a fuller understanding of the nature and objects of the present invention, reference may be made to the accompanying illustrative drawings wherein The same reference characters refer to the same elements throughout the several views of the drawings. It has been found that pnictide films grown at relatively low temperatures, below 300 C at low powers in sputtering and below 200 C in vacuum evaporation and molecular beam deposition, have a puckered sheet like layer like, structure similar to black phosphorus. These amorphous films are deposited from phosphorus in the form of P₄ vapour which is cracked by the plasma in sputtering and by a heated cracker in vacuum evaporation and molecular beam deposition. It has been found that pure phosphorus films, and presumable films of other pure pnictides, form the best insulation and passivating layers on III V materials. This is because the pnictide layer is capable of matching the pnictides within the III V semiconductors. Polypnictides, particularly MP The best results to date have been with phosphorus films having a typical thickness of approximately 400 Å 4 x 10⁶cm deposited on III V semiconductors solely from a phosphorus source by molecular beam deposition. Accompanying illustrative Figure 1 is a comparison of the Raman spectra of polyphosphide films grown by vacuum evaporation 250 C and molecular beam deposition 20 C . The solid line spectrum, when the substrate is at 250 C, is typical spectrum similar to amorphous red phosphorus indicating a local order comprising parallel pentagonal tubes. The dotted line spectrum of the film formed at approximately 20 C indicates a much different local order. Films produced by sputtering at temperatures less than that or equal to approximately 300 C have the same Raman spectra as the 20 C molecular beam deposition results illustrated in Figure 1. Accompanying illustrative Figure 2 is a comparison of the Raman spectrum of film grown at a substrate temperature of 20 C, shown in dotted lines, with a theoretical prediction of the spectrum of a puckered sheet like, layer like, structure similar to black phosphorus. It is concluded that the local order of these films is the amorphous counterpart of the puckered layer like, sheet like, crystalline structure of black phosphorus. This local order is simpler than that of the films described in the above identified related applications which have a local order comprising pentagonal tubes. It has been found that the energy band gap of this new form of amorphous phosphorus according to the present invention is approximately 1.7eV versus a bandgap of approximately 2.0eV for amorphous red phosphorus. No photoconductivity or photoluminescence has been detected from phosphorus films of this type. The films are shiny, hard and stable. It has been concluded that such films would be good candidates for insulating and passivating layes for III V materials. Amorphous thin films of phosphorus of a typical thickness of 400 Å 4 x 10⁶cm have been grown by molecular beam deposition on the 100 surface of InP and the 100 surface of GaAs, the substrates being maintained at room temperature, approximately 23 C. The InP is specified by the manufacturer to contain 2 x 10¹⁵ free electrons per cubic centimetre the gallium arsenide to contain 2 x 10¹⁶ free electrons per cubic centimetre. Accompanying illustrative Figure 3 is a comparison of the theoretical solid line and experimental dotted line data plots of normalized capacitance versus voltage for an MIS structure on InP. The solid line theoretical curve is computed for the case of ideal conditions, namely a perfect insulation and a negligibly small density of surface states. Excellent agreement between experiment and theory is shown in these high frequency C V curves. This indicates that a low density of surface states has been achieved by the phosphorus layer on the InP and that the phosphorus layer allows modulation of the depletion layer. The density of the surface states may be calculated by Terman s method. Accompanying illustrative Figure 4 is a comparison of the density of surface states for passivation with SiO₂, Al₂O₃, P₃N₅ and P the present phosphorus layer and it may be seen that there has now been achieved the lowest density of surface states reported on III V materials. E Accompanying illustrative Figure 5 is such a comparison for GaAs. It will be seen that the depletion layer has been modulated, but that the density of surface states has not been reduced as much as in the case of InP. Accompanying illustrative Figure 6 is a comparison of the intensities of the Raman spectra of GaAs with and without the present phosphorus thin film layer. That of the plain GaAs is shown by dotted line and GaAs, that having a phosphorus film, in accordance with the present invention, is shown by the solid line. These data suggest a reduction of the surface barrier of the GaAs when the phosphorus barrier is present. This indicates that the phosphorus layer may be used in MIS and Schottky devices and for the improvement of the performance of opto electronic devices. Accompanying illustrative Figure 7 is a comparison of the line shape of photoluminescence of GaAs with and without a phosphorus thin film GaAs alone is shown dotted GaAs with the present phosphorus in solid. It may be concluded from this diagram that there is an increase of the electron concentration at the surface of the GaAs when a phosphorus thin film is present. Since this behaviour is expected if the surface barrier has decreased, this consistent with the results illustrated in accompanying Figure 6. Accompanying illustrative Figure 8 shows that there is an increase in the intensity of the photoluminescence produced from GaAs when phosphorus thin film is present. The photoluminescence intensity of GaAs alone is shown by the dotted line and intensity with the phosphorus film is shown by the solid line. This increase in photoluminescence again indicates a decrease in number of surface states when the phosphorus thin film is present. This result is consistent with accompanying Figures 6 and 7. The phosphorus film of accompanying Figures 6, 7 and 8 was grown on the 111 surface of GaAs specified by the manufacturer to have 7 x 10¹⁷ free electrons per cubic centimetre. It is concluded that the GaAs surface barrier has been reduced when a phosphorus thin film having a layer like, puckered sheet like local order is deposited on the GaAs. Experiments indicate a reduction of one order of magnitude in the density of the surface states. The increase of the photoluminescence intensity noted is extremely important for opto electronic devices. It means that there is a decresase in the surface recombination velocity. Thus, it has been shown that a polypnictide surface film having a layer like, puckered sheet like local order deposited upon III V semiconductors produces a reduction in the density of surface states, allows the modulation of the depletion layer reduces the surface barrier, increases the free electron concentration at the surface, increases the photoluminescence intensity, and decreases the surface recombination velocity. Referring to accompanying illustrative Figure 9, a MISFET according to the present invention comprises a body of III V semiconducting material 20, islands 22 of high conductivity, a conduction channel 24 therebetween, source and drain metal contacts 26, gate metal contact 28, insulating layer 30 and passivating layers 32. According to the present invention, the I layer 30 and the passivating layers 32 which may be unitary and deposited on the substrate 20 at the same time, are the new amorphous layer like pnictide rich materials, such as MP₁₅ wherein M represents an alkali metal and MP Accompanying illustrative Figure 10 shows a MESFET according to the present invention. This comprises a III V semiconductor body 34, islands 36 of high conductivity, source and drain contacts 38, gate contact 40, conduction channel 42 and passivating layers 44 according to the present invention. The layers 44 reduce the surface currents from the source and the drain to the gate. According to the present invention, another MIS device utilizing a III V substrate may be formed as shown in accompanying illustrative Figure 11. There, the III V substrate, generally indicated at 2, is appropriately doped to form P regions 4 and N regions 6 therein. The polypnictide or elemental pnictide layer 8 is then deposited thereon, according to the present invention, appropriately masked and etched, and then a metal such as aluminium, is deposited to form drain 10, gate 12 and source 14. Those skilled in the art will realize that many other MIS configurations and devices may be fabricated using a pnictide rich insulating layer according to the present invention. Most III V semiconductor junction devices have either a planar or mesa configuration where the edges of the junction or junctions are exposed on the device surface. For some critical applications e.g. PIN or avalanche photo detector diodes for lightwave communications , it is imperative that the dark current i.e. current with no illumination under operating reverse bias be as low as possible in order to ensure low device noise. Since the surface current component of this dark current may be significant, it is desirable to minimize the surface current through passivation of the surface i.e. reduction or elimination of surface current paths . This is done by depositing a thin film of a suitable insulating material onto the exposed device surface. Materials currently used for this on III V devices include SiO₂, Si₃N₄, polyimide and photo resist, but none are able controllably and reproducibly to reduce the surface current to the very low values needed. According to the present invention, there is used a thin film of polypnictide material e.g. phosphorus MP₁₅, or MP Referring to accompanying illustrative Figure 12, a body of III V semiconductor material 46 containing various layers has metal contacts 48 and 50 deposited thereon. To reduce the surface current component which would provide leakage between the layers 52, 54 and 56, therein deposited a film 58 of pnictide according to the present invention. The device illustrated in accompanying Figure 12 may be, for example, a P I N photo detecting diode or an avalanche diode. The device illustrated in accompanying Figure 12 has a planar structure. A device having a mesa structure is shown in accompanying illustrative Figure 13. It comprises various layers 58, 60, 62, 64, 66 and 68 of III V material and metal contacts 70 and 72. Again, in order to prevent surface currents across the interfaces 74, 76, 78, 80 and 82 between the layers 58, 60, 62, 64, 66 and 68, there are provided pnictide rich passivating layers 84 and 86. The device illustrated in accompanying Figure 13 may be, for example, a photo detecting P I N diode or an avalanche diode. Both Figures 12 and 13 illustrate the use of the present pnictide layers to lower surface currents in opto electronic devices. Another important application of the present invention to opto electronic devices is based on the fact that the present pnictide layers reduce the surface recombination velocity at the surfaces of III V semiconductors to which they are applied. There has been noted an increase by a factor of 2.5 in the measured photoluminescence intensity of heavily doped GaAs with an amorphous thin film of layer like puckered sheet like phosphorus grown on the 111 surface. This increase in the photoluminescence intensity indicates a decreased recombination velocity at the surface. It is known that the smaller the surface recombination velocity the better the performance of the opto electronic devices, such as light emitting diodes, lasers, solar cells, photocathodes and photo detectors utilizing III V semiconductors. According to the present invention the layer of the present layer like form of pnictide rich material would be applied to the light emitting or light collecting surface of the opto electronic device. Thus, referring to accompanying illustrative Figure 14, a light collecting device according to the present invention comprises a body 88 of a compound intermetallic or III V semiconductor comprising a pnictide and a pnictide rich layer 90 deposited on the light collecting surface 92 thereof. Similarly, as illustrated in accompanying Figure 15, a light emitting device according to the present invention again comprises a body 94 of a compound intermetallic semiconductor comprising a pnictide rich layer 96 deposited on the light emitting surface 98 thereof. If the light collecting or light emitting device has two or more semiconductor layers which emerge on the surfaces 92 or 98 as indicated by the inter sections between them 100 and 102, then the layers 90 and 96 also reduce surface currents. The layers 90 and 96 may also be used to reduce surface currents between contacts, not shown, as in the devices illustrated in accompanying Figures 9 to 13. Thus, there has been disclosed the insulation and passivation of compound and intermetallic semiconductors comprising a pnictide, particularly III V semiconductors disclosed a new form of pnictide rich thin films having a layer like, puckered sheet like local order shown that such layers when deposited on pnictide based semiconductors reduce the density of surface states, allow modulation of the depletion layer, decrease the surface barrier, increase the carrier concentration at the surface, increase the photoluminescence, and decrease the carrier recombination velocity at the surface disclosed MIS and Schottky devices, particularly MISFETS and MESFETS utilizing pnictide rich layers for insulation and passivation disclosed various electro optical devices utilizing such layers for insulation, passivation, increased performance and lifetime. The semiconductors utilized in accordance with the present invention comprising pnictides are commonly called intermetallic or compound. III V semiconductors which are compound, intermetallic, semiconductors comprising elements from Group III and Group V of the Periodic Table, such as the binary semiconductor aluminium phosphide, aluminium arsenide, aluminium antimonide, gallium phosphide, gallium arsenide, gallium antimonide, indium phosphide, indium arsenide and indium antimonide, the ternary and the quaternay semiconductors. By pnictide is meant those elements from Group V of the Periodic Table, namely nitrogen, phosphorus, arsenic, antimony and bismuth. It is further reported that an amorphous phosphorus P film, deposited at room temperature from a P₄ AR mixture in an RF plasma, reduces the density of surface states, N