# STERILANT COMPOSITIONS

## Claims
Trockenes, körniges, festes, biologisch verträgliches Sterilisiermittel, das in Gewichtsteilen, bezogen auf das Gesamtgewicht der Masse, eine wirksame Menge im Bereich von 10 ppm bis 50 000 ppm eines sterilisierenden wasserlöslichen Oxidationsmittels, eine wasserlösliche Säure im Bereich von 100 ppm bis 10 000 ppm und einen wasserlöslichen Puffer im Bereich von 1000 ppm bis 100 000 ppm enthält, die ausreichen, um bei Mischung mit Wasser eine isotonische Lösung mit einem pH Wert von etwa 7,3 zu liefern, wobei wasserlösliches sterilisierendes Oxidationsmittel, wasserlösliche Säure und wasserlöslicher Puffer voneinander verschieden sind.

## Description
This invention relates to sterilant compositions. More particularly, the invention relates to sterilant compositions with improved biocompatibility which may be employed in a wide variety of industrial processes where cleansing and or sterilization of materials and apparatus are required, but which are particularly useful in the fields of medicine, food processing and wine making, where semi permeable membranes are used. In these latter respects, compositions of this invention are eminently useful in the field of medicine, and especially that area thereof involving hemodialysis and the cleansing and sterilization of hemodialysis apparatus for reuse. Therefore, while the compositions of this invention are useful in a wide variety of areas, they are treated herein, in the interests of simplicity, in their application to the cleansing and sterilization of hemodialysis apparatus for reuse, although it is to be understood that this invention is not to be so limited. The cleansing and sterilization of hemodialysis apparatus for reuse presents a number of problems. Initially, when the apparatus is employed to dialyze a patient, a degree of biocompatibility is established between the patient and the apparatus. For example, in a hemodialysis operation, first saline and then blood flows through the hollow fibres of the membrane of the dialysis apparatus while dialysate flows past the outside of the membrane fibres. At the commencement of the operation, the membrane is essentially in equilibrium with saline flowing through the fibres thereof and with dialysate on the other side. When blood is introduced into the system a new equilibrium relationship between fluids passing through the system and the membrane must be established. This new membrane equilibrium is completely different from the initial equilibrium established with the saline and the dialysate. Generally, a membrane is in equilibrium with its environment when it has reached a state of ionic configuration, physical configuration, osmotic pressure, concentration gradients and hydronium ion gradients with the fluids which surround it. However, during the hemodialysis procedure the system never truly reaches an equilibrium state, but rather a quasi steady state in which the composition of the inlet and outlet dialysate and blood changes only incrementally and only as a result of the dialysis process itself. Now, it is known that as a fluid, such us blood, containing dissolved or suspended particulates flows over a surface, such as the internal surfaces of the fibres of a hollow fibre membrane, constituents of the blood and dialysate are adsorbed on the surface of the device in accordance with individual entity relative adsorbtion or reaction forces. Consequently, a rolling front of non adsorbed or less strongly adsorbed materials and or reaction products forms and proceeds as a concentrated mass towards the exit of the membrane system. While this is taking place, molecules and any sufficiently small particles pass through the membrane driven by differential concentration forces and enter the dialysis fluid. In a similar manner, entities contained in the dialysate may move from the dialysate into the blood stream. Once the surface quasi steady state is established, the latter two activities are the main concerns of the dialysis operation. Now, as the above mentioned activities take place, a complex protein layer consisting of general proteins such as albumen, fibrinogen, and other non immunological macromolecules, from the circulating blood, plus immunological proteins, such as complement, are laid down on the internal surfaces of the membrane fibres, The presence of this deposited protein layer improves the biocompatibility between a patient undergoing hemodialysis and the dialysis system Reuse operations require that the kidney be cleaned and disinfected. Cleaning is necessary to prevent build up of debris that would block the hollow fibres of the membrane and close the pores. Moreover, disinfection must be adequate to eliminate all spores, bacteria, viruses and fungi that may be introduced under any reasonable conditions. However, at the same time, it is necessary to conserve a high degree of biocompatibility of the system by employing reagents which minimize disturbance of the protein layer which has been laid down, thus conserving the improved biocompatibility which has been developed between the dialysis system and the patient upon reuse of the dialysis apparatus. A known cleansing and disinfecting reagent used for cleaning and disinfecting dialyzing apparatus is formaldehyde. Formaldehyde is strongly adsorbed on the protein layer membrane system. Formaldehyde reacts with protein in what is termed a tanning action. The use of formaldehyde has been associated with several adverse effects, such as carcinogenicity, acute hemolytic anemia, and auto immune anemia associated with the development of anti N like red blood cell antibodies. Cleansers and disinfectants as used in common practice, such as a hydrogen peroxide and a product known as Chlorox Registered Trade Mark of The Chlorox Company, Oakland, Ca. do not have these toxic effects. However, they disrupt the adsorbed protein layer. The use of cleaning reagents, sterilants and disinfactants and the like is known in a wide variety of fields in order to cleanse, preserve and prevent deterioration or adverse effects from taking place in a given environment. However, many of the known materials of this type cannot be usefully employed in hemodialysis systems, since they might not only be destructive to the membrane and the protein layer laid down upon dialysis but also, since they might have further adverse biological effects, they are incompatible with human physiology for other reasons, such as, for example, pH, acute toxicity, or mutagenicity. At the same time that a cleansing and sterilant reagent suitable for use in hemodialysis systems which are to be reused preferably must not adversely affect or destroy the biocompatilbility established by the protein layer deposited on the internal surface of the membrane fibres, such a cleansing and sterilant reagent must also provide the required cidal action. Cidal capacity is influenced by several factors, including, for example 1 At equal sterilant concentrations, cidal action varies markedly as pH varies 2 At equal pH, cidal action varies markedly with sterilant concentration 3 At equal pH and or sterilant concentration, cidal action varies markedly with time of contact of various organisms with the sterilant system 4 Cidal action of any given sterilant or system containing the same decreases as decomposition reactions occur, thus decreasing the concentration of the sterilant available in such systems and 5 In order to facilitate contact of cidal agent and microorganisms, the presence of surface active agents, that is, detergents, may in some cases not only be desirable, but actually required in order to facilitate contact between the cidal agents and the microorganisms present. In the latter respect, it is to be noted that a given degree of cidal action is accomplished more rapidly and at lower sterilant agent concentrations when such surface active agents are utilized. However, the use of such agents may also adversely affect the biocompatibility of the system. In cases where such detergent materials are not present, it is, in some situations, necessary to provide a physical means of contact between the cidal agent and the organisms present. The use of such detergent materials or physical means to facilitate contact between the cidal agent and the organisms present in the system adds further complexities to the system. Dialyzer membranes are sensitive to variations in pH. Any significant excursion from a neutral pH of about 7 causes significant deterioration in the physical strength of the membranes. Many of the commercial sterilants currently used operate at highly acidic pH less than about 5 or highly basic pH greater than about 9 levels. This weakens the membranes the weakening evidences itself clinically as an increase in blood leaks and in the laboratory as a decrease in burst pressure, as dealt with more fully below. US A 4,084,747 discloses a germ killing composition produced by contacting an acid material, which preferably consists of at least about 15 percent by weight of lactic acid with sodium chlorite in aqueous media. The amount of acid in the composition must be sufficient to lower the pH of the aqueous media to less than about 7. The Patent also discloses methods of disinfecting and sanitizing, including application of either the germ killing composition US A 4,330,531 discloses a germ killing gel, a germ killing soap, a germ killing toothpaste and applicators for dispensing such germ killing compositions. The compositions include a first gel material containing sodium chlorite and a second gel material containing lactic acid in an amount sufficient to lower the pH of the aqueous media included therewith to less than about 7. In contrast, US A 3,912,450 discloses a method for disinfecting or sterilizing medical, surgical and dental instruments or other objects with improved sporicidal compositions in liquid phase. The method is based upon the synergistic effects observed when combining non ionic and anionic surfactants with aqueous or alcoholic glutaraldehyde solutions. The method can also be employed with ultrasonic irradiation over a wide frequency range. US A 4,411,866 discloses an artificial organ assembly having an artificial organ with a built in body fluid treatment mechanism, as well as a body fluid inlet port and a body fluid outlet port, filled with a liquid harmless to the human body and sealed. The assembly also includes an extracorporeal body fluid circulation mechanism which comprises a body fluid inlet line connected to the body fluid inlet port, filled with a liquid harmless to the human body and sealed. The whole assembly is hermetically vacuum packaged and steam sterilized in a packaged state. The artificial organ assemblies include blood dialysis apparatus. US A 3,124,506 discloses compositions of matter comprising malic acid and certain salts thereof which, when employed in a dentifrice, as a prophylactic composition for washing the nasal cavities, as a gargle, or in a perspiration odour inhibiting composition, improves the effectiveness of these various compositions for their intended purpose. As a dentifrice, the compositions are effective as tartar removing agents, antienzyme and sanitizer agents. As a nasal wash or gargle, the compositions aid in mobilizing and removing tenacious phlegm deposits from mucous linings of the mouth, nose and throat and exert a germicidal action. When employed as a deodorant, the compositions alleviate unpleasant perspiration odour and reduce perspiration. US A 4,473,591 discloses the retention of the natural colour of canned green vegetables by blanching the vegetables prior to packing in an aqueous solution of a metal ion selected from zinc and copper, the pH of the brine solutions ranging from 5.1 to 6.4. US A 2,988,514 discloses an aqueous acidic bleaching bath having an acid pH of 1 to 7 which consists of water, a water soluble metal chlorite selected from alkali metal chlorites and alkaline earth metal chlorites, and at least one of certain polyamines to prevent evolution of chlorine dioxide gas. US A 3,585,147 discloses aqueous solutions containing stabilised chlorine dioxide gas dissolved therein in the form of an alkali metal chlorite at a pH between about 7 and 13 and adapted to release chlorine dioxide upon acidification to a pH of less than about 6 and having present therein a chloride of a metal selected from alkali metal and alkaline earth metals in an amount sufficient to increase the release of chlorine dioxide from the solutions. US A 2,071,091 discloses the formation of chlorine dioxide solutions by acidification of chlorites of alkali and alkaline earth metals. GB A 1,484,972 discloses a process for sterilising medical or surgical equipment, which comprises immersing the equipment in a non toxic solution containing hypochlorite ions and thereafter reducing all the hypochlorite to chloride with a reducing agent. The present invention, in contrast to the abovementioned patents, which neither recognise the problem or the need for biocompatible sterilant compositions of this type, provides suitable, biocompatible sterilant compositions which may be used in a wide variety of industrial processes where cleansing and or sterilisation are required and which are particularly useful in the reuse of hemodialysis equipment. In accordance with the invention, there is provided a dry, granular, solid biocompatible sterilant composition comprising, by weight, based on the total weight of the composition, an effective amount, in a range of from 10 ppm to 50,000 ppm, of a water soluble oxidant sterilant, a water soluble acid in a range of from 100 ppm to 10,000 ppm and a water soluble buffer in a range of from 1000 ppm to 100,000 ppm sufficient to provide an isotonic solution with pH of approximately 7.3, when mixed with water, and wherein the water soluble oxidant sterilant, the water soluble acid and the water soluble buffer are different from each other. The above composition may include water. In order to more completely understand the present invention, reference is directed to the accompanying drawings which are to be taken in conjunction with the following description thereof and in which In accordance with this invention, a sterilant composition comprises an effective amount of a water soluble sterilant, a water soluble buffer and a water soluble acid. The sterilant may vary widely so long as it does not adversely affect the protein layer of a membrane protein layer system. In this respect, illustrative sterilants include, but are not limited to, sodium chlorite, hypochlorous ozone, aldehydes such as formaldehyde and glutaraldehyde, sodium chlorate, sodium azide, potassium permanganate and the like. Depending upon the particular sterilant used in a given composition, the effective amount thereof may also vary widely, being present in an amount at least sufficient to impart its sterilizing effect. The proportions of the composition may vary greatly depending upon the sterilant material chosen. In general, the sterilant is present in a composition in accordance with this invention in a range of from about 10 ppm to about 50,000 ppm by weight, based on the total weight of the composition. In a preferred embodiment utilizing oxidant sterilant such as sodium chlorite, the sterilant is present in a range from about 30 ppm to about 10,000 ppm by weight. Like the sterilant, the water soluble acid employed in a composition of this invention may vary widely so long as it is water soluble and will not adversely affect the protein layer in a membrane protein system. It may be a water soluble inorganic or organic acid, or acid salt. However, when an organic acid is employed, it should not be one that contains complex or high molecular weight groups that will have a tendency, when in solution, to impede the cidal action of the sterilant or be non dialyzable. Among the acids which may be utilized in the biocompatible sterilant compositions of this invention are inorganic acids, such as hydrochloric acid, nitric acid, sulphuric acid, bromic acid and the like. Illustrative, but not limitative suitable acid salts are those such as sodium acid sulphate or sodium acid phosphate. Among suitable organic acids are lactic acid, acetic acid, ascorbic acid, citric acid, malic acid and the like. Citric acid is a preferred acid for reasons of non toxicity and dialyzability. The amount of hydronium ion producing material, that is acid or acid salt, employed in a composition in accordance with this invention should be sufficient to adjust the pH to about 7.3. In this respect, the acid is normally present in a composition in a range of from about 100 ppm by weight to about 10,000 ppm by weight, and is preferably in a range of from about 500 ppm by weight to about 1000 ppm by weight, based on the total weight of the composition. As previously indicated, a water soluble buffer is employed in the compositions of this invention. The buffer, like the acid constituent, may be inorganic or organic and may vary widely so long as it is water soluble and will not adversely affect the protein layer in a membrane protein system. However, when an organic buffer is employed it should not be one that contains complex or high molecular weight groups that will have a tendency, when in solution, to 1 impede the cidal action of the sterilant or 2 to be non dialyzable. Among the buffers which may be utilized in the biocompatible sterilant compositions of this invention are inorganic buffers, such as sodium bicarbonate, sodium phosphate, and potassium phosphate and the like. Among the suitable organic buffers are sodium acetate, potassium acetate, sodium tartrate, sodium citrate, sodium ascorbate, sodium maleate and the like. The amount of buffer employed in a composition in accordance with this invention should be sufficient when the composition is in aqueous solution to form an isotonic solution with a pH of approximately 7.3, the pH of blood. In this respect, the buffer is preferably present in the composition in a range of from about 5,000 ppm to about 15,000 ppm by weight. Physiologically isotonic solutions are defined as having a total tonicity of 0.3 osmoles per litre. The addition of the buffer allows the pH of the solution to remain near a pH of 7.3 even when the system is perturbed. The relative insensitivity to the addition of acid is illustrated in the graph of Figure 6. This constant pH, equivalent to normal blood, enhances the biocompatibility of the composition, and also minimizes destructive effects on dialysis membranes. While it is possible under the most ideal conditions to provide compositions in accordance with this invention which contain only a sterilant and a suitable acid and which are isotonic and have a pH of approximately 7.3, like that of blood, such compositions tend to be unstable and less useful either in cleansing and sterilizing hemodialysis apparatus for reuse or in other areas of technology. Consequently, as a practical matter, the compositions of the instant invention contain the buffer as a necessary constituent thereof in order to provide relatively long term stable solutions. Figure 2 and 6 illustrate the effect of pH on the availability of a sterilant moiety and the effect of acid perturbations, respectively, on a preferred embodiment of the invention. Dialysis membranes are sensitive to variations in pH. When acidity fluctuates from approximately neutral the structure of the polymers which constitute the membranes can be altered and weakened. An illustration of this phenomenon is shown in the graph of Figure 1, which shows the effect of pH variation on the integrity of a cellulosic membrane. Weakening is evidenced by the effect of both high and low pH on the As a practical matter, the compositions of this invention may be sold as either wet or dry products. In this connection, the compositions may be packaged in a two compartment package, one compartment containing the desired amount of sterilant material and the other compartment containing the desired amount of acid, plus the buffer. The user removes the constituents from the package and simply dissolves them in the required amount of water. In another embodiment, the compositions may be provided as products in a three compartment package, the third compartment containing the required amount of buffer separate from the acid and the user dissolves these together in the required amount of water to provide an isotonic solution having a pH of approximately 7.3. As previously mentioned, the compositions of this invention, while particularly suitable for use in the cleansing and sterilization of hemodialysis apparatus, may also be employed in other technological fields, such as food processing and wine making. For example, in food processing, the compositions may be employed to clean and sterilize tanks, filters, heaters, chillers and lines. In the area of wine making, the compositions may be employed to sterilize process equipment, filters. membranes, reverse osmosis equipment and the like. Moreover, when employed in technological areas other than the medical field, the choice of sterilant, acid and buffer which may be utilized will not require the stringent standards called for in the field of hemodialysis since the human body is not involved. Consequently, in such cases, and particularly where a protein layer is not involved, sterilants, acids, and buffers which may have a harsher effect on the environment in which they are employed, may be utilized. For example, sterilants such as sodium chlorate, sodium perchlorate and glutaraldehyde, acids such as hydrochloric acid, nitric acid and sulphuric acid, and buffers such as potassium phthalate, sodium tetrosalate and other industrial grade materials may be utilized in the compositions of this invention when they are employed in areas of technology other than the medical area. It is to be understood that the term sterilant as employed in the present specification and the appended claims means a material which, when applied to a surface or used in a space, renders that surface or space free of viable microorganisms and the term acid means a material which raises the hydronium ion concentration of an aqueous solution in which it is present. In order to further illustrate the present invention, the following illustrative but not limitative, Examples thereof are set forth. In the Examples all parts and percentages are by weight unless otherwise indicated. A sterilant composition was prepared by mixing three grams of sodium chlorite, ten millilitres of glacial acetic acid, and 190 grams of sodium bicarbonate with sufficient water to form a total of ten litres of solution at room temperature about 20 A sterilant composition was prepared by mixing 300 grams of sodium chlorite, 60 grams of citric acid and 1600 grams of sodium bicarbonate buffer with sufficient water to form a total of 100 litres of solution at room temperature about 20 An oxidant sterilant solution was prepared by mixing 600 grams of sodium hypochlorite as a 5 solution , 30 grams of 37 hydrochloric acid and 1900 grams of sodium acetate buffer with sufficient water to form a total of 100 litres of solution at room temperature about 20 An aqueous sterilant solution was prepared by dissolving three grams of sodium chlorite and 16 grams of sodium bicarbonate in one litre of water. Sufficient lactic acid 6 millilitres of an 85 solution was added to this isotonic solution to bring the pH to 7.3. The solution was tested as described in Example 2 and found to be an effective dialyzer sterilant. An aqueous sterilant solution was prepared by mixing three grams of sodium chlorite, 5.25 grams of acetic acid, and 113 grams of sodium bicarbonate with sufficient water to form a total of 10 litres of solution at room temperature about 20 An aqueous sterilant solution was prepared by mixing 30 grams of sodium chlorite, 0.8 millilitre of 37 solution of hydrochloric acid, and 86 grams of sodium acetate with sufficient water to form a total of 10 litres of solution at room temperature about 20 An aqueous sterilant solution was prepared by mixing 30 grams of sodium chlorite, 13 grams of ascorbic acid, and 88 grams of sodium bicarbonate with sufficient water to form a total of 10 litres of solution at room temperature about 20 An aqueous sterilant solution was prepared by mixing 30 grams of sodium chlorite, 45 grams of a 10 solution of nitric acid, and 88 grams of sodium bicarbonate with sufficient water to form a total of 10 litres of solution at room temperature about 20 An aqueous sterilant solution was prepared by mixing 0.1 grams of sodium azide, 57 grams of citric acid, and 103 grams of sodium bicarbonate with sufficient water to form a total of 10 litres of solution at room temperature about 20 In order to illustrate the cidal activity of the compositions of this invention, Three solutions, A, B, and C of sodium chlorite, sodium bicarbonate and citric acid were prepared in accordance with the procedure of Example 2. Each solution was isotonic, and had a pH of about 7.3. Solution A had approximately 3000 ppm, Solution B had approximately 2000 ppm and Solution C had approximately 1000 ppm of sodium chlorite. The solutions were assayed on days 0, 1, 7, 15 and 30 for available chlorite concentrations by means of the standard sodium thiosulphate assay. The results are summarized in the following Table, and shown graphically in Fig. 5. This Example illustrates the use of some of the compositions of this invention and the preservation of the biocompatible protein layer in a number of hemodialysis devices which had been used to dialyze a plurality of patients and are to be cleansed and sterilized for reuse. The compositions of Examples 1, 2, 4 and 5 were employed to clean and sterilize the dialysis membranes of hemodialyzers to be prepared for reuse after the patients had been treated and had established biocompatibility with the device due to the protein layer which had been deposited on the internal surfaces of the hollow fibres of membrane of the dialyzers. The arterial blood outlet port of each hemodialyzer was connected with the dialysate inlet port thereof and the blood inlet port of each apparatus connected to a source of sterilant solution. The sterilant solution was pumped through each dialyzer in an amount of up to 10 volumes of sterilant per volume of dialyzer at a rate of approximately 100 millilitres per minute over a five to ten minute time period after which the ports were capped and the dialyzers stored for reuse. In all cases, the protein layer remained distinguishable after the treatment and the dialyzers were completely free of microorganisms as tested by standard chemical and microbiological techniques. The compositions of this invention present many advantages. For example, the inventive compositions can be made from materials which are relatively inexpensive and readily available through normal commercial channels. In addition, the materials are easy to employ, being readily soluble in water. Moreover, the inventive compositions exhibit excellent cidal properties and are readily prepared to provide isotonic solutions with a pH of approximately 7.3, being compatible with blood in this respect and at the same time, operative at such a physical level to achieve their intended result advantageously. Furthermore, the compositions of this invention are uniquely advantageous in the area of hemodialysis since they do not adversely affect the protein layer which is laid down on the internal surfaces of the dialysis membrane fibres during use by a patient, this protein layer establishing biocompatibility between a patient and the dialysis apparatus employed to cleanse his blood. As reported in the literature, a patient may undergo varying degrees of physical stress from minor physical discomfort to cardiac arrest when treated with dialyzers whose protein layer has been destroyed. Conservation of the improved biocompatibility established between patient and apparatus during use is of great importance and benefit. In addition to being advantageous for the above reasons, it is also to be noted that the constituents present in the preferred compositions of this invention degrade to physiologically occurring materials such as sodium chloride and thus have no adverse effect upon the natural environment when the preferred compositions are discarded after use. Also they have no adverse effects on the patients or technicians exposed to them. Still further, due to the nature of the constituents present in the preferred compositions of this invention, the compositions are easily prepared simply by mixing and diluting in water without the need for any complex equipment to manufacture the same. The compositions of the invention are also advantageous in that they may be utilized to achieve cleansing and sterilization in a wide variety of technologies. Numerous other advantages of the compositions of the invention will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art.