# INORGANIC ANION EXCHANGERS AND PREPARATION THEREOF

## Claims
Ein Anionenaustausch Material umfassend ein Material der Formel

## Description
This invention concerns ion exchangers and, more particularly, inorganic anion exchangers. U.S. Patent 3,002,932 describes several noncrystalline inorganic anion exchangers consisting essentially of hydrated oxides of pairs of elements selected from the group consisting of aluminum, silicon, titanium, zinc, and zirconium. The compositions above are prepared by coprecipitating the hydrates of the combination of the oxides of the elements referred to above in an aqueous medium. The coprecipitation is carried out by gradually adding a base to an acid below a pH of 5 to bring the aqueous solution to a pH of about 5 to 7. The aqueous mixture is dried below about 150 C, followed by washing the dried mixed hydrated oxide with water, and again finally drying the mixture below about 150 C. In a paper by E. J. Duwell and J. W. Shepard, The Preparation and Properties of Some Synthetic Inorganic Anion Exchangers , The prior art above states that dehydration of the exchangers at 150 C results in the loss of anion exchanger capacity. Thus, the compositions prepared by the methods disclosed in the above art are unsatisfactory as anion exchangers at temperatures above 150 C. It is desired, therefore, to provide novel inorganic anion exchangers with increased thermal and chemical stability at elevated temperatures and with greater exchange capacity at elevated temperatures than previously known inorganic exchange materials. It is also desired to provide a process by which these anion exchangers may be prepared. One aspect of the present invention is an anion exchanger material comprising a material exhibiting anion exchange properties at temperatures of above 160 C, said material represented by the formula wherein M is a metal element or elements each with a positive valence of a Q is a metal element or elements each with a positive valence of a 1 a is 2, 3, 4, or 5 A ¹, A ², A ³, and A ⁴ are each one or more non volatile exchangeale anions each having a negative valence of 1, 2, 3, and 4, respectively x is 0 x 0.5 and n, y, z, d, e, f, and g are real numbers greater than or equal to zero and satisfy the following Another aspect of the present invention is a process of preparing the compositions of formula I which comprises providing an inorganic mixed metal hydroxide or hydrated oxide having anion exchange properties, exchanging the anion of the mixed metal hydroxide or hydrated oxide for a non volatile anion, and heating the exchanged mixed metal hydroxide or hydrated oxide to form a mixed metal oxide exhibiting anion exchange properties at above 160 C. The novel compositions of the formula I include mixed metal oxides and partially hydrated mixed metal oxides exhibiting anion exchange properties. The compositions consist essentially of a combination of oxides and hydrated oxides of pairs of metal cations or elements. A first metal element of the pair of metal elements has a lower valence than that of a second metal element of the pair of metal elements. The first lower valent member has a positive valence lower by one integer than that of the second higher valent member of the pair. For example, if the first metal element has a valence of 2, the second metal element has a valence of 3, and if the first metal element has a valence of 3 then the second metal element has a valence of 4, and so on. The first lower valent metal element of the compositions of formula I is present in a major molar amount and the second higher valent metal element is present in a minor molar amount. It is theorized that the minor constituent is substituted in the lattice structure of the major constituent. The combination of the oxides and hydrated oxides of the pair of metal elements has a positive excess charge and this charge is balanced by an exchangeable anion or a mixture of two or more exchangeable anions. The mixed metal oxides and partially hydrated mixed metal oxides of the present invention may also be represented by the general formula I above. an oxide is represented by the formula when z 0 and a partially hydrated oxide is represented by the formula when y and z are both positive real numbers. Preferably, y is 1 and z is 0 or 1. The range for x is preferably from about 0.01 to about 0.4. As an example of the composition of the present invention, the metal element or elements M each may have a valence of 2 and the metal element or elements Q each may have a valence of 3. The metal element M with a 2 valence may be selected from elements such as magnesium, calcium, strontium, barium, iron, cobalt, manganese, nickel, copper, zinc and mixtures thereof, and the metal element Q with a valence of 3 may be selected from elements such as aluminum, iron, chromium, gallium, cobalt, rhenium, indium and mixtures thereof. Another example of a combination of metal elements illustrating the present invention is the metal element or elements M each having a valence of 3 such as those listed above and the metal element or elements Q each having a 4 valence including, for example, titanium, germanium, tin, lead, zirconium, hafnium, vanadium and mixtures thereof. Still another example of a combination of metal elements illustrating the present invention is the metal element or elements M each having a valence of 4 such as those listed above and the metal element or elements Q each having a 5 valence including, for example, antimony, vanadium, niobium, tantalum and mixtures thereof. Yet another example of a combination of metal elements illustrating the present invention is the metal element or elements M each having a 5 valence such as those listed above and the metal element or elements Q each having a 6 valence including, for example, chromium, molybdenum, tungsten and mixtures thereof. Preferably, a pair of metal elements M and Q selected from the group magnesium, aluminum and titanium are used in the present invention. More preferably, mixed metal oxides or partially hydrated mixed metal oxides of aluminum and titanium, and mixed metal oxides or partially hydrated mixed metal oxides of magnesium and aluminum are used as the anion exchange material as herein described. The preferred compositions of the present invention having a pair of elements of aluminum and titanium may be represented by the following general formula where A ¹, A ², A ³, and A ⁴ are each one or more non volatile exchangeable anions each having a negative valence of 1, 2, 3, and 4, respectively x is 0 x 0.5, and n, y, z, d, e, f, and g are real numbers greater than or equal to zero and satisfy the following The preferred compositions of the present invention having a pair of elements of magnesium and aluminum may be represented by the following general formula where A ¹, A ², A ³, and A ⁴ are each one or more non volatile exchangeable anions each having a negative valence of 1, 2, 3, and 4, respectively x is 0 x 0.5, and n, y, z, d, e, f, and g are real numbers greater than or equal to zero and satisfy the following The exchangeable anions of the aforementioned compositions may be selected from any inorganic or organic exchangeable anions commonly known in the art of anion exchangers. The exchangeable anions may be selected from monovalent, bivalent, trivalent, tetravalent anions, or mixtures of two or more of these exchangeable anions. In the above formulas, the anion A ¹, for example, may be an inorganic anion selected from halides such as fluorides F ¹ , chlorides Cl ¹ bromides Br ¹ and iodides I ¹ sulfates such as HSO 1 4 phosphates such as H₂PO 1 4 permanganates MnO 1 4 nitrates NO 1 3 carbonates such as HCO 1 3 hydroxides OH ¹ and mixtures thereof. For example, the anion A ¹ may be a combination of two or more exchangeable anions described above such as a mixture of Cl ¹ and HCO 1 3 anions. In the above formulas, the anion A ², for example, may be an inorganic anion selected from carbonates such as CO 2 3 sulfates such as SO 2 4 phosphates such as HPO₄ ² and mixtures thereof. For example, the anion A ², may be a combination of two or more exchangeable anions described above such as a mixture of SO 2 4 and CO 2 3 . In the above formulas, the anion A ³, for example, may be a phosphate such as PO 3 4 . An example of the anion A ⁴ used in the above formulas may include organic anions such as ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid EDTA and diphosphates such as Other organic exchangeable anions used in the above formulas may include, for example, stearates, formates, benzoates and mixtures thereof. In addition to the above anions used in the present invention, the compositions of the present invention may include a combination of two or more exchangeable anions selected from the group A ¹, A ², A ³ and A ⁴ as described above. For example, the compositions may include a mixture of exchangeable anions such as Cl ¹ and CO 2 3 anions or Cl ¹ and SO 2 4 anions. Preferably, the exchangeable anion in the above compositions of the present invention is a sulfate anion. The total negative charge of the exchangeable anion or mixture of exchangeable anions should be sufficient to balance the excess positive charge of the combination of pairs of metal oxides and hydrated oxides of the composition. The exchangeable anions of the composition is present and bound, i.e., firmly incorporated, in the lattice structure of the composition. Generally, the exchangeable anion cannot be washed free of the composition and remains in the composition until the exchangeable anion is exchanged for or replaced by another anion. The compositions of formula I are characterized as exhibiting anion exchange properties, i.e., anion exchange capacity, and, thus, are useful as anion exchangers. Generally, the anion exchangers exhibit anion exchange capacity at elevated temperatures, for example, above 160 C and up to 800 C. Typically, anion exchangers in the prior art have been thermally unstable and lose anion exchange capacity at temperatures of above 150 C. The anion exchangers of the present invention are particularly useful at temperatures of from 160 C to 800 C. Preferably, the exchangers of the present invention are used in the temperature range from 160 C to 500 C. The anion exchangers of formula I also exhibit high anion exchange capacities in the temperature range described above. Generally, the anion exchange capacity of the exchange milliequivalent per gram meq g to 2.0 meq g and preferably from 0.5 meq g to 1.0 meq g. In its broadest scope, the compositions of the present invention are synthesized via controlled techniques of precipitation, drying, washing, ion exchange and calcination. More particularly, the compositions of the present invention are prepared by coprecipitating mixed metal hydroxides or hydrated mixed metal oxides followed by drying by evaporation, washing with a solvent such as water, exchanging the anion of the coprecipitated mixed metal hydroxides or hydrated mixed metal oxides for another anion, described hereinafter as a nonvolatile anion , and then calcining the mixed metal hydroxides or hydrated mixed metal oxides to form mixed metal oxides or partially hydrated mixed metal oxides. In carrying out the method of the present invention, a precursor mixed metal hydroxide or hydrated mixed metal oxide anion exchanger precursor material i.e., having an anion exchange capacity, is first provided as a starting material. The precursor material may be an amorphous or crystalline material prepared by known methods in the art. For example, the coprecipitation method described in U.S. Patent 3,002,932 may be used to prepare an amorphous or noncrystalline mixed metal hydrated oxide which is useful as the precursor material in the present invention. Preferably, a precursor material determined by X ray diffraction, electron diffraction, electron microscopy or micro area X ray fluorescence analysis to be crystalline is used in the present invention. Generally, the precursor material is preferably prepared by precipitating mixed metal hydroxides and hydrated mixed metal oxides, drying the precipitate, and then exchanging the anion of the mixed metal hydroxide or hydrated oxide anion exchanger with a nonvolatile anion. A nonvolatile anion is an exchangeable anion bound to the lattice structure of the precursor material which a does not react with some other component of the precursor resulting in loss of the precursor material s anion exchange capacity and or b does not volatilize to form a gaseous product resulting in a loss of the precursor material s anion exchange capacity when the precursor material is subjected to heating or to calcination temperatures described hereinafter. For example, a Cl anion may evolve a HCl gas upon calcining the precursor material and, therefore, considered a volatile anion. Nonvolatile anions used in the present invention include, for example, sulfates, phosphates, chromates, molybdates, tungstates, niobates, and nitrates, with sulfates being the most preferred. Any salt of the above nonvolatile anion materials may be used to exchange the anion of the precursor material. Preferably, potassium sulfate or sodium sulfate is used because it is readily available, relatively inexpensive and easily handled in the present process. As an illustration of one embodiment of preparing the precursor material of the present invention, salts or other derivatives of metals M and Q of the composition of the present invention, are dissolved in a solvent such as water. Preferably, the stoichiometric ratio of Q M should be above zero to 0.5. The total concentration of M and Q used in the solution may be above 0.1 molar and preferably, above 0.5 molar. The salts used may be acidic, and which on neutralization with a base precipitate the hydroxides or hydrated oxides of metals M and Q. Water soluble salts or water insoluble salts may be used. The water soluble salts may include, for example, salts of chloride Cl ¹ sulfates SO 2 4 nitrates NO 1 3 carbonates CO 2 3 and mixtures thereof of the metals M and Q. Water insoluble salts used may include salts of hydroxides. Preferably, the water soluble salts of elements M and Q are used. The preferred base used for neutralization and consequent coprecipitation of the hydroxide or hydrated oxides are the alkali metal bases such as sodium hydroxide or potassium hydroxide. Other bases may include, for example, ammonium hydroxide. Coprecipitation of the mixed metal hydroxides or hydrated mixed oxides is preferably carried out in an agueous media at a pH suitable to produce anion exchange capacity in the hydroxides or hydrated oxides. The preferred pH is a function of the metal cations or elements used to form the composition of the present invention. For example, an aluminum and titanium oxide material may be formed by coprecipitating an aluminum and titanium hydroxide or hydrated oxide at a pH of 3 to 7, preferably at a pH of 4 to 6 During the coprecipitation above, a precipitate material containing a substantial quantity of water is formed when the combination of hydroxides or hydrated oxides are precipitated. The major portion of the water may be removed or separated from the precipitate, for example, by filtration techniques known in the art. After separating the precipitate material from the aqueous media, the material is then dried by heating in air at relatively low temperatures to remove the water in the material. Preferably, a temperature below 150 C and more preferably a temperature being in the range of 100 C to below 150 C is used to dry the material. This dried product may then be washed free of impurities such as sodium chloride, with water such as distilled or deionized water. Removal of such impurities is carried out with water at a pH of from 4 to 7. The washed material may be used as the precursor material which is then exchanged with a nonvolatile anion described above. After the anion of the precursor mixed metal hydroxide or hydrated oxide anion exchanger has been exchanged for a nonvolatile anion, the resulting exchanged material is heated or calcined at a temperature sufficient to form a mixed metal oxide or partially hydrated mixed metal oxide exhibiting anion exchange properties. Calcination temperatures may range from 160 C to 800 C. Preferably, a temperature range of 400 C to 600 C is used. The length of time of calcination may vary, but calcination should be carried out for a length of time sufficient to remove substantially all of the water present in the material. Generally, 10 minutes to 3 hours may be used. A white, free flowing powdery material results after calcination and is characterized as being a mixed metal oxide or partially hydrated mixed metal oxide having anion exchange capacities at above 160 C. Optionally, the exchanged material may be washed with water and separated from the aqueous media by well known means, such as vacuum filtration and then dried at a relatively low temperature, such as below 150 C prior to the calcination step described above. The dried material calcined at the aforementioned calcination temperature is a white, free flowing, fine, powdery product, typically containing solids having a particle size of 10 microns or less and preferably a particle size of 5.0 microns or less. The powder particles may easily be broken up into individual particles having a size of from 0.1 to 0.4 micron by techniques known in the art such as grinding. The anion exchanger material produced by the present invention may be used as an exchanger, alone, or in combination with other additives which are not detrimental to the anion exchange capacity of the exchanger. Other materials or phases which may be mixed with the exchanger may include, for example, fillers such as clays binders such as cellulosic polymers, in particular, carboxymethylcellulose and extenders such as TiO₂, Al₂O₃, and Al OH ₃ which will not substantially adversely affect the anion exchange capacity of the exchanger. Other additives may be used, for example, to pelletize, agglomerate or coat the exchanger, provided the anion exchange capacity of the exchanger is not substantially reduced. The various additives used with the anion exchanger will depend on the application in which the exchanger is used. The anion exchange material of the present invention may be used in any application wherein an anion exchange mechanism is desired. Applications in which the exchanger is particularly useful include, for example, removing unwanted anions from aqueous systems such as removing chromates and dichromates from water waste streams or removing silicates and colloidal silica from industrial boiler systems. Another application the anion exchanger of the present invention finds use in is in laundry detergents as an additive for removing undesirable dye migration from one article of clothing to another. Still another application for using the anion exchanger involves removing sulfonated polystyrene from corn syrup by passing the syrup over an ion exchange column containing the anion exchanger of the present invention. Yet another application in which the anion exchanger may be used is in forming pigments by mixing the anion exchanger with a dye. The present invention, described broadly above, is now illustrated more specifically by the following examples which are not to be construed as limiting the scope of the invention. An acidic solution was made by diluting 25 liters of a 28 weight percent AlCl₃ solution to 60 liters total volume with water. In addition, a TiCl₄ solution was made by adding 800 ml of TiCl₄, slowly, to 2000 ml of water to obtain a clear solution. The TiCl₄ solution was then added to the AlCl₃ solution. A base solution was made by dissolving 9000 g of NaOH in 60 liters of water. The AlCl₃ TiCl₄ solution and the base solution were fed simultaneously into a 10 liter glass reactor in which the pH, temperature, stirring rate and reactant feed rates were controlled. The AlCl₃ TiCl₄ solution was introduced at 100 ml min and the base feed rate was controlled to maintain the solution at a pH of about 6.0. The temperature was kept at 90 C and the stirring rate at 750 rpm. The first three reactor volumes of the reaction material were discarded and the remainder of the material was collected, filtered, dried at 120 C in an oven overnight, washed with water and redried at 120 C for three hours. A white, free flowing powdery precursor material was obtained having a substantially crystalline structure, a uniform particle size of approximately 0.2 micron and an exchange capacity of 1.5 meq g. The approximate composition of the precursor material was Al A 500 ml solution of AlCl₃ and TiCl₄ which was 28 percent AlCl₃ and 4 percent TiCl₄ was added dropwise to a stirred reactor containing 1000 ml of water maintained at a pH of 5 by the addition of NaOH. The reactor was kept at room temperature. The precipitate formed was filtered and dried at 125 C overnight. X ray diffraction showed the precipitate to be an amorphous hydrous mixed oxide. The precipitate was then exchanged with 75 g K₂SO₄ dissolved in 500 ml of distilled water. The exchanged material was then filtered, washed, and dried at 125 C for five hours. The dried material was then calcined at 500 C for three hours. The calcined product was cooled to room temperature and then washed, and dried at 125 C overnight. The anion exchange capacity of the calcined product which had the form Al A 500 ml solution containing 200 g MgCl₂ 6H₂O and 79.5 g AlCl₃ 6H₂O was added dropwise to a reactor containing 500 ml of water maintained at a pH of 10.0 by the addition of NaOH at 50 C. A precipitate formed in the reactor which was filtered and dried. The precipitate material which had the form Mg₃Al OH ₈ Cl nH₂O was then exchanged with 100 g K₂SO₄ in 500 ml of water for several minutes. The exchanged material was then filtered and dried at 125 C. The dried material was calcined at 500 C for 15 minutes, cooled, washed and dried at 125 C overnight. The calcined product had the form Mg₃ AlO₄ SO 2 4