# Process for the preparation of epoxides.

## Abstract
A process for preparing alpha substituted epoxides is provided. The process comprises contacting alcohols of formula R 2 R 1 HO C CG R 3 X with a dihydrocarbyl peroxide, a copper compound and a Lewis base to yield compounds of formula CHEM R 1 , R 2 , R 3 and R 4 can be hydrogen, alkyl, cycloalkyl or aromatic radicals whilst X is selected from COR 4 , CN COOR 4 or CONR 4 2 groups. The process can be used for converting diacetone alcohol to its corresponding alpha substituted epoxide.

## Claims
Claims 1. A process for the production of alpha substituted expoxides of formulaEMI6.1 by contacting alcohols of formula,EMI6.2 wherein in both formulae R1, R2 and R3 are independently hydrogen, an unsubstituted or substituted alkyl, cycloalkyl or aromatic radical containing up to 12 carbon atoms and X is a group selected from COR4, CN, COOR4 and CONR42 wherein R4 is an atom or groups as defined for R1, R2 and R3, with a dihydrocarbyl peroxide in the presence of a copper compound and aLewis base at a temperature in the range 20 to 2000 C. 2. A process as claimed in claim 1 wherein the alcohol is a beta substituted keto alcohol. 3. A process as claimed in claim 2 wherein the alcohol is diacetone alcohol. 4. A process as claimed in claim 3 wherein the process is carried out in the presence of methanol. 5. A process as claimed in claim 4 wherein the Lewis base is selected from pyridine, alkyl substituted pyridines and lmitazoles. 6. A process as claimed in claim 5 wherein the mole ratios of copper compound dihydrocarbyl peroxide alcohol Lewis base are in the range 1 1 100 1 100 1 10. 7. A process as claimed in claim 6 which is carried out in the substantial absence of oxygen. 8. A process as claimed in claim 7 wherein the dihydrocarbyl peroxide is either di tertiary butyl peroxide or di cumyl peroxide.

## Description
PROCESS FOR THE PREPARATION OF EPOXIDES The present invention relates to the catalysed preparation of alpha substituted epoxides from alcohols. More specifically, this invention relates to the preparation of alpha substituted epoxides by the catalysed oxidation of substituted alcohols using a dihydrocarbyl peroxide as the oxidising agent. Alpha substituted epoxides find use as prescursors to certain food additives and as coal flotation agents. GB patent 1381012 and A New Catalytic Route to Aipha Ketoepoxides, Annals de Chemica 65, 1975 teach a process for the preparation of alpha substituted epoxide compounds prepared by the copper catalysed oxidation of beta alcohols using oxygen as the oxidising agent. However, a problem associated with the use of molecular oxygen is the formation of water which decreases the yield of product. It has now been found that the disadvantage associated with the use of molecular oxygen and the production of water can be minimised by employing a dihydrocarbyl peroxide as the oxidising agent.In addition, this process avoids the use of molecular oxygen with its associated disadvantages such as the high risk of explosion.Moreover, the use of the peroxide oxidant makes the catalyst more efficient decreasing the amount of copper employed and also increases the overall rate of reaction. Accordingly, the present invention provides a process for the production of alpha substituted epoxides of formula I by contacting alcohols of formula 11 with a dihydrocarbyl peroxide in the presence of a copper compound and a Lewis base at a temperature in the range 20 to 2000C. The alpha substituted epoxides prepared in accordance with the present invention have the following general formula EMI2.1 wherein each of R1, R2 and R3 may each independently be a hydrogen atom, an unsubstituted or substituted alkyl, cycloalkyl or aromatic radical containing up to 12 carbon atoms and X is a group selected from COR4, CN, COOR4, or CONR42 wherein R4 is an atom or group as defined for R1 R2 and R3. Preferably, R1,R2 and R3 are either hydrogen or a C1 to C4 unsubstituted alkyl and X is a group selected from COR4 wherein R4 is as defined above. Examples of alpha substituted epoxides which may be prepared by the process of the present invention include but are not limited to 3,4 epoxy 4 methyl 2 pentanone 3,4 epoxy 2 pentanone and cyclohexylidenecyclo hexanone oxide. The substituted alcohols used as the reactant in the present process have the following general formulaEMI2.2 wherein R1, R2, R3 and X are as defined above. It is preferred that both R1 and R2 are not hydrogen atoms. Preferably the substituted alcohol is a beta substituted keto alcohol for example diacetone alcohol. The inventive process is preferably conducted in the liquid phase in the presence of a copper compound, a Lewis base and a dihydrocarbyl peroxide. The copper compound is typically a copper compounds such as a copper halide, nitrate, acetate, benzoate, perchlorate and the like. Both copper I and copper 11 compounds can be used. The Lewis base may be substituted or unsubstituted and should be capable of complexing with copper. Examples of suitable Lewis bases include pyridine, piperidine, phosphines, arsines, stibines, imidazoles and the like. Other coordinating ligands can also be used in place of the Lewis base which can complex with copper. Contemplated equivalent ligande which will perform substantialy the same as the Lewis base include nitriles and halide e.g. chloride and bromide ions. Preferred bases are the nitrogen containing bases such as pyridine and alkyl substituted pyridines and imidazoles. Unlike the prior art, dihydrocarbyl peroxide is used as the oxidising agent in the present process. The term hydrocarbyl is defined herein as the moiety formed by the removal of a hydrogen atom from a hydrocarbon. Accordingly, the hydrocarbyl radical of the dihydrocarbyl peroxide may suitably be an alkyl, aryl, alkaryl or aralkyl group having up to 12 carbon atoms. The hydrocarbyl radicals in the dihydrocaryl peroxide may be the same or different.Illustrative examples of suitable peroxides include but are not limited to di cumyl peroxides and di tertiary butyl peroxides DTBP , with DTBP being preferred. Since the dihydrocarbyl peroxide is used as the oxidising agent herein, it is preferred to conduct the present process in the substantial absence of molecular oxygen. As mentioned above, the process is preferably conducted in a liquid phase and suitable solvents may be employed. Suitable solvents are polar solvents with C1 to C4 alcohol being preferred.The most preferred solvent is methanol. It is also possible to operate the present process in the absence of solvents in which case the reactant alcohol itself will act as the reaction medium. The process conditions used in the present process can vary widely. The temperature can range from 200C to 2000C with 400C to 1000C being preferred. The pressure can also vary widely and is suitably from 1 to 30 atmospheres. The concentration of copper compound, Lewis base and dihydrocarbyl peroxide can vary. Generally, the mole ratios of copper dihydrocarbonyl peroxide alcohol Lewis base will be in the range of 1 1 1000 1 1000 1 100 with the preferred ratios in the range of 1 1 100 1 100 1 10. The present invention is illustrated by the following examples. However, these examples should not be construed as limiting the scope of this invention which includes equivalent modifications, variations and embodiments.Example 1 A round 2 neck Pyrex flask fitted with a thermometer, reflux condenser and stirrer bar was charged with methanol 16.4g di tertiary butyl peroxide 14.6g diacetone alcohol 13.8g pyridine 1.3g and meta xylene 5.lg, an internal standard for GC analysis . The system was flushed with nitrogen then heated to reflux 700C in an oil bath, with stirring, over a period of 20min. The solution was maintained at reflux for 20min and GC analysis showed that no reaction had occurred during this time.Copper I chloride 0.21g was then added, dissolving over about lOmin to give a green solution which darkened progressively to brown. GC analysis of a sample taken 45min after the copper I chloride had been added showed the presence of unreacted DTBP 5.6g , diacetone alcohol 6.4g acetone 0.7g and the alpha substituted epoxide 6.7g . This represents a selectively to the alpha substituted epoxide based on DTBP consumed of 95 and a turnover rate of 39 moles alpha keto epoxide per mole of copper I chloride per hour. Example 2 A round 2 neck Pyrex flask fitted with a thermometer, reflux condenser and stirrer bar was charged with di tertiary butyl peroxide 13.0g diacetone alcohol 25.lg pyridine 1.3g and meta xylene 3.0g, an internal standard for GC analysis . The system was flushed with nitrogen then heated to 770C in an oil bath, with stirring. Copper I chloride 0.25g was then added, dissolving to give a green solution which darkened progressively to brown. The reaction mixture was maintained between 78CC and 820C. GC analysis of a sample taken after 3 hours showed the presence of unreactedDTBP 1.8g , diacetone alcohol, acetone and the alpha substituted epoxide 5.8g . Example 3 A reaction vessel was charged with methanol 19.0 g di tertiary butyl peroxide 8.0 g diacetone alcohol 10.0 8 4 methyl pyridine 2.9 8 tetrahydropyran 2.1 g, internal standard for gc and copper I chloride 0.30 g . The solution was stirred under nitrogen and heated to 480C. An analysis of a sample after 4 hours showed formation of the alpha substituted epoxide 3.4 g and the presence of unreacted ditertiary butyl peroxide 3.4 g .Example 4 Example 3 was repeated but with 2 methyl pyridine 2.9 g in place of 4 methyl pyridine. An analysis after Sj hours showed alpha substituted epoxide 2.1 g and di tertiary butyl peroxide 4.6 g . Example 5 Example 3 was repeated but with N methyl imidazole 2.6 g in place of 4methyl pyridine. An analysis after 4 hours showed alpha substituted epoxide 2.1 g and di tertiary butyl peroxide 4.3 g .Example 6 Example 3 was repeated but with copper I bromide 0.44 g in place of copper I chloride. An analysis after 4 hours showed alpha substituted epoxide 2.0 g and di tertiary butyl peroxide 4.2 g .Example 7 A reaction vessel was charged with methanol 19.0 g di cumyl peroxide 13.4 g diacetone alcohol 6.8 g pyridine 0.7 g and copper I chloride 0.11 g . The mixture was heated with stirring to 60 C. An analysis of a sample taken after 35 mins showed the alpha substituted epoxide 2.1 g and di cumyl peroxide 4.9 g .