# Self discharge type pulse charging electrostatic precipitator.

## Abstract
A self discharge type pulse charging electrostatic precipitator includes a high speed switching element through which the electrical charge stored in a condenser is suddenly supplied to the electrostatic precipitator and the charge is dissipated in a resistor in the precipitator. A charging section of the electrostatic precipitator for one power source is divided into a plurality of charging section which are coupled with each other through inductive elements. The electrostatic precipitator includes a device for supplying the electrical charge to each of the divided charging sections through the high speed switching element successively in time sharing manner and a charging capacitor having a capacitance which is substantially equal to a capacitance of the divided charging section. The electrostatic precipitator possesses enhanced pre cipitation efficiency by suppressing the reverse ionization and realizes reduction of a cost of the power source.

## Claims
1 A self discharge type pulse charging electrostatic precipitator including a high speed switching element through which an electrical charge stored in a capacitor is supplied to the electrostatic precipitator and the charge is dissipated by a resistor within the electrostatic precipitator, characterized by the provision of means for supplying an electrical charge through the high speed switching element successively in time sharing manner to a plurality of divided charging sections which are formed by dividinq a charging section of the electrostatic precipitator for one power source and are coupled with each other through inductive elements, and a charging capacitor having a capacitance selected to be substantially equal to a capacitance of the divided charging section.

## Description
The present invention relates to a self discharge type pulse charging electrostatic precipitator, and more particularly, to the electrostatic precipitator herein after abbreviated to as EP applied to increase precipita tion efficiency by suppressing the reverse ionization and realize cost reduction of a power facilities. A conventional EP adopts a negative direct current DC high voltage charging method. With this conventional EP, when high resistive dust is processed, dielectric breakdown is caused in the dust layer on the electrode for precipitation and ions having the reverse polarity are produced, so that the precipitation effieicncy is remarkably deteriorated, that is, the reverse ionization phenomenon occurs. The reverse ionization phenomenon is caused when the product ρd i of the electrical resistivity ρd of the dust and the current density i of the dust layer exceeds the dielectric breakdown voltage Edc of the dust layer. Thus, a pulse charging system is proposed as means for obtaining high precipitation efficiency while sup pressing the reverse ionization. FIGS. 4 A and B show an example of a pulse superposition type charging EP in which a pulse voltage is superposed on a DC high voltage, and FIGS. 5 A and B show voltage waveforms of the circuit of FIGS. 4 A and B . A voltage stepped up by a transformer 1 is rectified through a rectifier 2 and is stored as the electrical charge in a charging capacitor 3. The circuit of FIG. 4 produces the LC resonance by a resonance circuit consisting of the charging capacitor 3, a coupling capacitor 6, a capacitance C Further, in order to obtain a base voltage existing at the time except the occurrence of the pulse, a DC high voltage generator 8 is connected to the EP 7. With this method, the DC charging portion can impress the high peak voltage to the EP without increased average current at the pulse portion while suppressing current and hence the precipitation efficiency for high resistive dust is improved. However, the above system requires two power sources and the coupling capacitor in addition to the charging capacitor, and hence the cost of the power source is very expensive. Accordingly, the system is not widely put to practical use. An energy withdrawal type pulse charging system is proposed as another system. However, the system has a complicated power supply circuit and the cost of the power source is expensive. Accordingly, there has been proposed a self discharge type pulse charging EP as shown in FIGS. 6 A and B in which the charging capacitor 3 is directly connected to the EP 7 through the high speed switching element 4 with the coupling capacitor 6, the DC high voltage generator 8 and the waveform shaping resistor 5 being removed. With this EP, when the switching element 4 is turned on, the electrical charge stored in a capacitance C In FIG. 6 A , a voltage stepped up by the transformer 1 is rectified through the rectifier 2 and is stored as the electrical charge in the charging capacitor 3. Thus, when the high speed switching element 4 is turned on, the circuit of FIG. 6 A produces the LC resonance by a resonance circuit consisting of the capacitance C However, the conventional self discharge type pulse charging system which is inexpensive has the following problems. 1 Since the self discharge type pulse charging system has only the single power source, if the peak voltage is increased in order to improve the efficiency thereof, the attenuation starting voltage and the residual voltage are also increased uniquely. Accordingly, current flowing through the EP is increased while the voltage is attenuated from the attenuation starting voltage to the residual voltage, and hence the reverse ionization is caused for the high resistive dust. In particular, since the current flow ing through EP is increased in the exponential function manner with the increase of the voltage, large current flows in the vicinity of the attenuation starting voltage, thereby producing a critical condition of the reverse ionization. FIG. 8 shows the relationship between the peak voltage and the precipitation efficiency obtained from an experiment made by the inventors. According to the experiment, it has been confirmed that the precipitation efficiency increases with the increase of the peak voltage and has a maximum value at a certain peak voltage, the efficiency being reduced above the certain peak voltage. 2 While the precipitation efficiency is improved as the average voltage from the attenuation starting voltage to the residual voltage, as shown in FIGS. 7 A and B , which corresponds to the average voltage of the so called DC charging system in the prior art is higher, it is necessary to shorten the cycle of the pulse shown in FIG. 7 A in order to increase the average voltage at the period described above. However, in this case, if the cycle of the pulse is shortened excessively, the increase of the current flowing through the EP as corona current in the vicinity of the attenuation starting voltage causes the reverse ionization. 3 To the contrary, if the cycle of the pulse is enlarged to reduce the consumption energy, the average voltage is reduced. 4 Further, the self discharge type pulse charging system can reduce the cost greatly as compared with the conventional pulse charging system. However, in order to increase the capacity of EP for one power source, the charging capacitor having a large capacitance is required since the charging capacitor 3 is proportional to the capacitance C The present invention has been made in order to solve the above problems, and an object of the present invention is to provide a self discharge type pulse charging electrostatic precipitator in which the reverse ionization is suppressed to increase the precipitation efficiency and the cost reduction of power facilities is attained. In order to achieve the above object, the present invention is structured as follows. The self discharge type pulse charging electrostatic precipitator including a high speed switching element through which an electrical charge stored in a capacitor is supplied to the electrostatic precipitator and the charge is dissipated by a resistor within the electrostatic precipitator, is characterized by the provision of means for supplying an electrical charge through the high speed switching element successively in time sharing manner to a plurality of divided charging sections which are formed by dividing a charging section of the electrostatic precipitator for one power source and are coupled with each other through inductive elements, and a charging capacitor having a capacitance selected to be substantially equal to a capacitance of the divided charging section. 1 The charging section of EP for one self discharge type pulse generating power source is divided into a plurality of sections, which are coupled with each other through inductors having several hundreds to several thousands micro henry µH . The electrical charge stored in the charging capacitor can be supplied to the respective divided charging sections of EP through the high speed switching element which is different from the circuit coupled with the inductors. 2 The capacitances of the charging capacitor of the self discharge type pulse generating power source and the high speed switching element are selected to cor respond to the capacitance of one section of the multiplicity of divided charging sections. The operation is as follows. 1 The circuit element for each charging section is identical with the self discharge type pulse charging. By dividing the charging section supplied with the same power source into a plurality of sections and coupling the divided charging sections with each other through the inductors having several hundreds to several thousands micro henry µH , one charging section supplied with the electrical charge from the charging capacitor of the different circuit can obtain high peak voltage instataneously from the electrical charge. At the same time, since the electrical charge is moved to other charging sections through the inductors with samall time delay, the attenuation starting voltage in the section supplied with the charge can be reduced and the high peak voltage is obtained while suppressing the reverse ionization by suppressing the excessive current flowing through EP. 2 In the charging section supplied with the electrical charge from the charging capacitor, the voltage is merely attenuated from the attenuation starting voltage to the residual voltage by the current flowing through the resistor R Accordingly, the maintenance of the average voltage can be improved without the occurrence of the reverse ionization, while the saving of energy can be attained while maintaining the average voltage. 3 In the conventional self discharge type pulse charging EP, the power source having the same EP capacity requires the charging capacitor corresponding to the capacitance of EP in order to obtain the high peak voltage, and the switching element is required to turn on and off large current. To the contrary, in the present invention, the substantially identical peak voltage can be obtained by the charging capacitor having the capacitance correspond ing to the capacitance of the each charging section, and the current turned on and off by the switching element can be reduced as compared with the current in the prior art. More particularly, since the charging section supplied with the electrical charge from the charging capacitor and the charging sections not supplied are coupled with each other through the inductors, only the charging section directly supplied with the electrical charge involves increasing potential having sharp rising edge, and sub sequent delivery and receipt of the electrical charge to the other charging sections are effected through the induc tors with time delay so that uniform voltage is obtained. Accordingly, the peak voltage of each charging section can be sufficiently high even if the capacitance of the charg inq capacitor corresponds to the capacitance of the each charging section. The present invention possesses the following excellent effects with the above configuration. 1 The improvement of the voltage waveform of the self discharge type pulse charging EP forming economical pulse charging means, that is, the improvement of reducing the attenuation starting voltage and increasing the residual voltage maintains the characteristic of obtaining the high voltage pulse having sharp rising edge for the high resistive dust as it is and obtains the high peak voltage while suppressing the reverse ionization. Further, the suppression of reduction of the voltage can improve the maintenance of the average voltage and can obtain the higher precipitation efficiency refer to FIG. 3 . 2 The capacitance of the charging capacitor of the power facilities can be reduced greatly, that is, reduced to the capacitance obtained by dividing by the number of the charging section as compared with the conventional self discharge type pulse charging EP and the cost of the power facilities can be reduced. Since the current turned on and off by the high speed switching element can be reduced greatly, that is, reduced to the value obtained by dividing by the number of the charging section, the relia bility can be improved. Generally, the life of a contact of a switch is inversely proportional to the squared current flowing through the contact. 5. Referring FIG. 1 showing a configuration of an embodiment of the present invention, a voltage stepped up by a transformer 11 is rectified through a rectifier 12 and is store in a charging capacitor 13 as the electrical charge. The capacitor 13 is connected through a high speed switch 14 to EP 17. The EP 17 is divided into 4 charging sections shown by a d in this example and the divided sections are supplied with the electrical charge from a single power source. The number of the divided charging sections may be two or more, but the number of two to six is desirable. The charging sections may include sections in the direction of gas flow, while it is generally desirable to select the charging sections in the direction perpendicular to the gas flow in which the characteristic of current and voltage is identical. While a multi stage rotary spark gap is used as the high speed switch in this example, a high speed and high voltage type thyristor or other devices may be used. On the other hand, the charging sections a d of EP are coupled with each other through inductors 19 and a coupling bar 20 having high conductivity. The capacitance of the charging capacitor may be the capacitance value corresponding to the capacitance of EP in each of the charging sections. Operation of the embodiment of the present invention is now described in time series manner. FIG. 2 shows voltage waveforms of each of the charging sections when the rotary spark gap is sequentially turned on and off to supply the electrical charge stored in the capacitor 13 to each of the charging sections in the order of sections a , b , c and d in time series manner. When the switch a is turned on, the electrical charge is supplied to the charging section a of EP 17 from the charging capacitor 13 to effect the LC resonance. At this time, the electrical charge tends to flow into other charging sections through the inductors 19. However, since the increase of the potential having sharp rising edge containing high frequency component causes time delay to retard the flow of charge into other charging sections, the peak voltage in the charging section a increases to the substantially same level as that in the case where the other charging sections are not connected through the inductors thereto. However, if the value of the inductors 19 is too small, since the leakage current through the inductors 19 is large and the peak voltage is reduced, it is desirable that the inductance of the inductors 19 is more than several hundreds micro henry µH . After the voltage supplied to the charging section a reaches the high peak voltage, the delivery and receipt of the electrical charge are actively effected through the inductors 19 among the charging sections. Thus, the voltage level of each of the charging sections is equal to each other while the delivery and receipt of the electrical charge are made by the LC resonance with the capacitance C Then, the switch for the charging section b is turned on and the voltage of the section b increases to the high peak value. At this time, the charging section a is affected by the peak voltage of the section b through the inductor 19 so that peak voltage in the form of pulse having a rising edge attenuated a little as compared with that of the section b appears in the section a , and the voltage of the section a is the same voltage as the attenuation starting voltage of the charging section b . Thereafter, the same operation is repeatedly made so that the switch is turned on and off for the sections c and d , and the switch is then turned on and off for the section a . The operation that the electrical charge stored in one common capacitor is supplied to each of the charging sections during one cycle in time sharing manner is the same operation as that of the time sharing system for a computer. Accordingly, this can be called a time sharing energy supply self discharge type pulse charging system.