# PULSED PLASMA IGNITION SYSTEM

## Claims
Elektrisches Zündsystem, das einen Transformator mit ersten 1 und zweiten 2 Wicklungen, die um ein magnetisches Kernmaterial gewunden sind, und einen Eingangskondensator C1 , der mit der ersten Wicklung zum Speichern und Entladen von elektrischer Energie verbunden ist, aufweist, wobei die zweite Windung mit einem Funkenspalt verbunden ist, über den eine totale Ausgangskapazität C2 ist, wobei das Transformatorwindungsverhältnis N zwischen 25 und 60 beträgt, um eine Spitzensekundärausgangsspannung V2 für eine Eingangsspannung V1 zu erzeugen, auf das der Eingangskondensator C1 geladen wird, wobei V2 gegeben ist durch

## Description
The present invention comprises an optimal and versatile spark ignition system based on an optimally designed voltage doubling, low turns ratio, ultra high efficiency ignition coil of low output capacitance coupled to a large input capacitor, providing simultaneous high breakdown voltage and high spark current at optimal spark oscillation frequency. The invention is usable in any of simple spark, multi pulse, plasma jet, or multi pulse plasma jet modes. Preferably the invention is used in conjunction with simple design, versatile, high efficiency, high pulse rate, multi pulse capacitive discharge CD electronic ignitions, permitting optimization with respect to the spark plasma pulse rate. A principal purpose of the invention, designated as Pulsed Plasma Ignition, or Pulsed Ignition, is to provide a simply incorporated and retrofitable ignition system which will allow internal combustion IC engines to operate under very lean air fuel ratio mixture conditions for the highest efficiency and lowest exhaust emissions. For the additional case of Diesel engines Direct Injection DI engines the system will provide effective ignition of the fuel for reduced ignition delay time and more controlled combustion. These advantages are provided by Pulsed Ignition s ability to fire wide gaps and produce high arc current desired for lean burn engines but heretofore considered impractical . Current ignition and combustion related equipment are either ineffective or impractical for allowing engines to operate at the 22 1 air fuel ratio necessary to meet the presently contemplated moderately strict European emission standards. In the U.S. for example, where emission standards have been in force for many years, the rich mixture 14.6 1 air fuel ratio three way catalyst system is exclusively used for gasoline engines. The conventional Kettering inductive ignition system is ineffective in providing ignition of mixtures leaner than about 18 1. Electronic ignition and Capacitive Discharge CD ignition are no better as they use the same extremely inefficient ignition coil and provide minimal ignition energy electrical currents to the spark. While existing multiple pulse ignition systems, such as U.S. Patent 3,898,971, are superior to these, they suffer from still providing low spark currents and have a low overall efficiency, even when used with the more efficient pulse transformer ignition coil, and provide only slightly better lean mixture ignition properties. They provide substantially the same ignition currents approximately 100 milliamps although higher overall energy through multiple pulse sparking. However, the time between pulses is low too low to be useful at anything but low RPM, and of marginal use in Direct Injection engines where the typical fuel injection time is one to two milliseconds. In an attempt to substantially increase ignition energy and ignition system efficiency, a class of ignition systems called plasma jet was developed, such as U.S. Patent No. 4,122,816 and 4,317,068. These systems were developed under the assumption that standard high voltage ignition coils are inherently inefficient and ineffective for transferring ignition energy to a spark gap, and the energy must be provided by an alternative means. While they provide this alternative means and improved ignition, they are substantially more complex, they require special more complex spark plugs, and suffer from a serious spark plug erosion problem. Furthermore, since they need to fire multiple spark gaps or require expensive high voltage high current diodes, they are less practical and more difficult to use in lean burn engines, high compression ratio engines, and spark ignited diesel engines. Other systems fall between these various categories, and fail to address and answer the fundamental questions of providing successful ignition by using the characteristics inherent in ignition coils when specifically coupled to high efficiency high pulse rate multi pulse capacitive discharge ignition systems to provide rapid firing wide gap high current plasma jet like sparks. Also, US Patent 3 566 202 and West German patent publication 2 339 734 disclose an ignition transformer with a turns ration of between 25 to at least 60 but offer no further resemblance to the system of the present invention. It is the principal object of this invention to use the inherent transient voltage doubling characteristic of a transformer ignition coil in conjuction with a CD circuit to provide a low turns ratio ignition coil which exhibits both high output voltage and high current at an unusually high energy transfer efficiency. It is another object of this invention to use this coil with high efficiency, high pulse rate multiple pulse ignition circuits to optimize the invention ignition characteristics with respect to pulse rate, while maintaining system simplicity and very high voltage output, current output, and operating efficiency. Another object of this invention is to provide an ignition system capable of firing a wide spark plug gap, of providing high plasma jet like ignition current with an optimized high oscillation frequency, and a long effective ignition duration through rapid firing of multiple ignition pulses. Another object of this invention is to provide the spark plasma and pulse rate optimal ignition system characteristics in a simple, easily incorporated and retrofitable system, composed of a combination ignition coil with a single unit ignition power supply control box. Another object of this invention is to provide ignition coil voltage doubling optimization criteria and coil efficiency optimization criteria when used in a CD configuration , so that coil inductance and coupling coefficient, turns ratio, resistance, and input and output coupled capacitance can be selected for optimization according to these criteria. In this way a family of optimized systems is provided. Another object is to combine the voltage and efficiency optimization criteria, the rapid pulse rate conditions, and known electrical conditions at the spark gap to provide a power supply optimization criterion in conjunction with an ignition pulse duty cycle specification between 20 and 50 duty cycle . Another object is to provide rapid firing pulses with optimized spark plasma frequency characteristics of 10 to 30 Khz at an optimized time between pulses of .05 to .5 milliseconds, and a high pulsing duty cycle of about 20 to 50 , where pulsing duty cycle equals ignition pulse period divided by sum of the pulse period and no pulse period. Another objective is to provide a coil design with a simple cylindrical shape and a sectioned secondary winding to provide the coil voltage doubling feature and high efficiency along with a very low output capacitance and simple and practical coil shape and size. Another objective is to provide a spark plug tip design which utilizes the advantages of the wide gap high current capabilities of the Pulsed Ignition system, the tip characterized by extended straight parallel electrodes for producing a wide spark gap and maximum magnetic field for moving the pulsed high current spark gap plasma outwards and into the air fuel mixture. Other features and advantages will be pointed out hereinafter, and will become apparent from the following discussion including a Summary of the invention and Description of Particular Preferred Embodiments of the invention when read in conjunction with the accompanying drawings. An electrical ignition system comprising a transformer with primary and secondary windings wound about a magnetic core material and an input capacitor C1 connected to the primary winding for storing and discharging electrical energy, the secondary winding being connected to a spark gap across which is provided a total output capacitance C2 , the transformer winding turns ratio N being between 25 and 60 to provide a peak secondary output voltage V2 for an input voltage V1 to which the input capacitor is charged where, V2 is given by The unusual feature of this coil capacitor invention is its ability to simultaneously, and easily and efficiently, provide very high voltage e.g. 36 kilovolts , high spark current 2 20 amps and optimal spark plasma oscillation frequency 10 30 kilohertz in a simple, inexpensive, compact ignition coil and 380 volt power supply control box. It can provide large e.g. 10 inc spark gap , full sine wave, moving plasma jet like discharge 10 20 amps , or very rapid firing, large gap, high current pulses e.g. 2 5 amps every 100 microseconds , or any of a range of voltage current oscillation pulse rate as is necessary to optimise ignition in modern high efficiency lean burn engines, and high speed or fast burn engines. In essence, the system of the invention provides an unprecedented combination of a very high current voltage frequency output high efficiency great versatility simple design low cost. The coil features moderately low primary and low secondary inductances L1 and L2, very low primary and secondary resistances R1 and R2, low core losses, very low secondary capacitance C2 , high coil coupling coefficient k, and low turns ration N of 15 60. The coil resistance and turns ration are chosen such that the coil efficiency parameter EP is approximately equal to the spark or arc voltage constant k. Within the concept of the invention there is also provided an electrical ignition system comprising a transformer with a primary winding connected to an input capacitor of capacitance C1, a secondary winding connected to a spark gap across which is a total output capacitance C2, a turns ration N and a voltage doubling parameter VP greater than 1.8 and given by Further, the coil is coupled to a capacitive discharge ignition with an ignition capacitance C1 of preferably 1 20 microfarads, such that the novel coil coupled capacitance voltage doubling parameter VP is close to two, preferably between 1.8 and 2.0. When used in this way, the coil exhibits an output voltage almost double that of existing ones, allowing for a reduced turns ratio at least one third the usual, and complete coil redesign to provide several amps of secondary current at efficiencies in the range of 25 to 60 , versus tens to hundreds of milliamps at 1 to 10 efficiency for existing coils, including pulse transformers. The capacitor coupled coil also exhibits a secondary current oscillation in the frequency range of 10 to 30 KiloHertz, a range of frequency believed to be optimal for ignition in a spark gap of width .040 to .080 . The Pulsed Plasma Ignition preferably operates in a multiple pulse mode at a high pulse rate of several pulses per millisecond and a duty cycle in the range of 20 to 50 for the above pulse oscillation frequency of 10 30 KiloHertz . The Pulsed Ignition system preferably uses power supply control features which allow it to operate at a very high efficiency. These include power supply turn off during firings and output voltage sensing and feedback to closely regulate output voltage and optimize power supply efficiency and coil design . Preferably a reduction of number of pulses per ignition with engine speed is provided, compensating in part for the increased number of ignition firings with engine speed. When an optimized power supply and control box is coupled with the optimized ignition coil, one obtains an ignition Pulsed Ignition system with unprecedented efficiency, great simplicity and igniting ability and which is easily retrofitable on existing automobile engines. Its igniting capability is comparable to plasma jet, and it will allow an automobile engine to operate at the 22 1 air fuel AF ratio necessary to meet contemplated European emission standards and provide a twenty to thirty percent efficiency improvement over three way catalyst engines through its lean combustion operation . The nature and objects of the invention are illustrated and described with reference to the following drawings, which also illustrate the preferred embodiments of the invention FIG. 1 depicts the optimized ignition coil 3 connected to an input capacitor 4 used in combination to attain the novel optimal ignition system characteristics. The coil primary winding 1 of turns n1 is coupled to the secondary winding 2 of turns n2 via the coupling core 3a through a mutual inductance M. The turns ratio is N, where N n2 n1. The secondary coil winding intrinsic capacitance 5 to ground is represented by C2 . The coil primary winding 1 has an inductance value L1 and a resistance 11 value R1 the secondary winding 2 has inductance value L2 and a resistance 12 value R2. For purposes of specification of the various parameters and to facilitate the disclosure, the following definitions are made The novel features of the coil are the optimization criteria based on the parameters defined below The coil efficiency parameter I2 is the peak of the secondary circuit 2a current i2, The coil optimization criteria are given below and are derived with respect to FIGS. 1 and 2 It is through use of these criteria, i.e. by being forced to strictly adhere to these criteria or constraints that the optimal novel ignition coil is developed. Other parameters that must be specified are the primary and secondary peak voltage, and desired range of arc current and its oscillation frequency which are interelated to varying degrees . For example, these criteria imply automotive ignition coil design contrary to exising designs, leading to very low turns ratio N about equal to 40 20 60 and a coil through resistance R about equal to 100 ohms for peak secondary current I2 approximately equal to 1 amp . On the other hand, automotive ignition coils have a turns ratio N of 100 to 130 200 to 250 for electronic ignition according to E. F. Obert, Internal Combustion Engines and Air Pollution , Intext Educational Publishers, N.Y., N.Y., 1973. Typical through resistance R is 50,000 ohms. Pulse transformers have N typically equal to 80 and R equal to 1,500. In the circuit of FIG. 1, the electrical energy is stored in capacitor 4 of capacitance C1 in the range of 1 to 20 microfarads available for transfer to secondary circuit 2b by means of coil 3 through inductive coupling of mutual inductance M, to produce a high voltage in 2b for ignition or other purposes. While the best application for the coil invention is a CD circuit, the coil will also operate with standard or electronic ignition excepting that full advantage cannot be taken of the high current voltage capabilities of the coil since these ignitions cannot store high energy rapidly. In standard and electronic ignition the capacitor across the points takes the role of capacitor C1. FIG. 2 depicts the coil 3 capacitor 4 combination of FIG. 1 used in a capacitor discharge ignition configuration under the conditions both prior to electrical gap 9 ignition breakdown and during breakdown. The switching device that initiates the ignition the discharge of capacitor 4 is SCR 6, across which diode 7 is placed to provide reverse current for a complete current voltage oscillation. Initially capacitor 4 is charged to voltage V0, and when SCR 6 receives a trigger, it conducts and pulls point 14a to ground potential 10, raising point 1a of primary winding 1 to V1 equal to V0 and point 2a to V2. Voltage V2 is then impressed across spark gap 9 defined by electrodes 8 and 10, where 10 is typically maintained at ground potential. It is then assumed by others that point 2a rises to a voltage V2 given approximately by N V1, i.e. by the product of the winding ratio and initial primary side voltage. V2 in fact rises to a voltage determined by the solution of coupled second order differential equations based on this circuit. These equations were solved with the proper specification of the initial values, to give The key feature here is the appearance of the term VP on the right hand side of the above equation representing a potential voltage doubling of V2 attained through the doubling factor DF defined above, i.e. the potential to achieve twice the voltage V2 than is normally obtained. For a typical automotive ignition coil used in a capacitive discharge ignition application Based on this understanding, an optimized ignition coil is proposed with the following characteristics C2 less than 40 picofarads, where C2 generally makes up half or less of the total secondary circuit 2b output capacitance 5 C2 . Preferably Complete specification of the novel optimized coil can be made after other key factors have been taken into account, principally those related to input and output voltage requirements, desired spark current and duration oscillation frequency . and power supply capability. When used in conjunction with a well designed power supply and controller, some refinement of the specification will occur. FIG. 2 also represents the condition immediately after electrical breakdown of gap 9 and formation of arc or spark in the gap. Through the analysis of this circuit under this arcing condition, most of the remaining specification can be made, in terms of electrical efficiency optimization and other factors. The quantity that must be solved here is the current i2 in gap 9 of circuit 2b arising from discharge of the energy stored in capacitor 4. The energy is transferred by transformer action provided by coil 3, and is determined once again through the solution of coupled second order differential equations with appropriate initial values. This was performed to give the following expression for the current The additional factors that are considered in utilizing the above expression for the optimized coil in the CD circuit design for automobile applications are enumerated below 1. The current oscillation frequency W1 should be preferably in the range of 10 to 30 KHz, corresponding to an oscillation period T1 between 100 and 33 microseconds. In this range the ignitability of the spark is optimized, i.e. for a gap in the range of 1mm to 2mm .040 to .080 there is a frequency effect of the spark which is optimized in this frequency range. The circuit component dielectric losses are also acceptable in this frequency range, although they cannot be ignored. Spark plug erosion is also reduced at the high frequency oscillation. 2. The size for capacitor 4 C1 which is practical for automobile ignition systems is in the range of one to ten microfarads for voltage V1 of 320 to 560 volts . The above factors suggest a primary inductance L1 of 1 to 4 millihenry for a coupling coefficient k of .98 to .996 , or more precisely a leakage inductance between 5 and 40 milliHenry. Based on the above, two coil CD optimal circuit designs were developed for the same input voltage and optimized turns ratio N, giving two different output voltages high, and very high , which were then completed based on the efficiency optimization parameter EP. Below are the design parameters The above values of voltage and current obtained simultaneously in a compact construction coil N 40 are substantially superior to prior art devices. Moreover, these examples demonstrate the versatility of the optimized coil capacitor invention in providing favorable current voltage values at the optimized oscillation frequency about equal to 20 KHz . Also noteworthy is the ability to provide plasma jet like ignition through high current 10 amps and wide gap firing with 36 Kilovolts . The above parameters are practical for a range of the coil capacitor combinations which can be readily implemented, and examples of which have been tested. The other factors that must be specified are the coil 3 winding primary 1 and secondary 2 resistance values R1 and R2. This is done with reference to the efficiency parameter EP developed below where R and K have been defined earlier. Optimization with respect to EP can now be specified for the case above for a very high value of K of 150 high spark current and wide spark gap 9 under compression The optimized coil for the specified input and output voltages, peak secondary current and oscillation frequency is thus specified and found to be in the realm of practicality, and will now be disclosed with reference to FIG. 3. FIG. 3 depicts an optimized ignition coil 3 designed to have a simple cylindrical shape, very low output capacitance C2 , and to satisfy the optimization criteria developed above. The core 3a preferably a ferrite is a cylinder of square or round cross sectional area approximately equal to one square inch with length approximately equal to four inches. The core 3a is surrounded by primary winding 1 of turns approximately equal to 25 20 30 of wire in the range of size 10 to 14, preferably composed of stranded magnet wire known as Litz wire, to minimize high frequency skin effect. 28 turns of No. 12 wire size will give a resistance equal to .02 ohms as specified in the above optimization criterion. The primary winding 1 is surrounded by an electrical insulating segmented form 24 e.g. plastic, paper, etc. on which coil secondary winding 2 is wound as depicted. Form 24 has segments 25 about equal to 8 in number 4 12 on which wire in the range of size 22 to 26 is wound. For secondary winding wire 2 of size 24 and 1000 turns n1 25 and N 40 , core 3a of length of 4 , and eight segments 25, the recommended width W and height H are these parameters is approximately equal to 20 Ohms 16 24 ohms , again satisfying the above optimization criteria. Depicted also in FIG. 3 is insulating centering holder 26 and magnetic field container 23 for forcing magnetic field lines H emerging from core 3a to close upon themselves as shown. The container 23 also functions as a container for the entire unit, with 27, 28, and 29 representing respectively coil minus or ground, coil positive primary for applying primary high voltage , and coil high voltage output of voltage approximately equal to 30 Kilovolts. Coil 3 is thus seen to differ substantially from existing ignition coils yet it is physically only about 50 larger. For cases where, for example, a very large plasma jet like spark is desired, it is only necessary is to pick the coil capacitor parameters and to use a large capacitor C1 say 20 ufarads along with a large spark gap 6 say .100 to achieve this. N can be chosen equal to 44, L1 equal to 1.25 millihenry, k equal to .994 and only 22 turns of primary No. 10 wire used with the optimization criteria VP and EP remaining satisfied . With these values on can easily produce a plasma jet of greater than 10 amps peak current and 80 microseconds duration for a voltage approximately equal to 400 volts . FIG. 4 depicts the application of the optimized coil CD system to a four cylinder IC engine. The key features of the optimized power supply controller, which is the subject of U.S. patent application S.N. 688,020 is also shown, namely the power inverter with controlled turn off 13, the voltage level sensor 16, and the multi pulse generator controller 17. In this application secondary output 8 is connected to distributor 15 which sequentially distributes the ignition pulses to each spark plug gap 8a 10a, 8b 10b, 8c 10c, and 8d 10d, where 10a, 10b, 10c, and 10d are ground points typically engine block . Points 9a, 9b, 9c, 9d are the spark gaps respectively. Assuming four stroke engine operation, then at 6,000 RPM highest engine speed the time between ignition pulses is 5 milliseconds. The inverter 13 power supply requirements can be specified with respect to the optimized coil CD system by analyzing the two cases of the high RPM condition assuming Vi 14 volts , and the engine cranking condition Vi 8 volts . For this analysis, we assume that optimally one specifies a spark made up of a pulse train of width between .5 msec and 5 msec, with a pulse firing rate of five pulses per millisecond. Beginning with the 6,000 RPM condition, it is assumed that five pulses are used for a 1 millisecond duration defined as T2, which gives four milliseconds as the time available to recharge C1 defined as Ti . The initial energy stored in capacitor C1 is The engine cranking condition which the current must satisfy is that it must provide sufficient power in the recharge time between pulses to provide an energy equal to that dissipated in a single pulse when the voltage is down to half its initial value of the fully charged capacitor , i.e. it must provide one quarter the energy. For the above case of five pulses per millisecond with a 68 microsecond oscillation period T1 giving a pulse duty cycle of 34 , gives a recharge time T3 of 132 microseconds. For EP 1, the total power dissipated per pulse P tot is The actual pulse train period at the low RPM condition can be specified with some arbitrariness. A practical range is 2.5 to 7.5 msecs i.e. about equal to 5 msec , which drops to one msec or less at 6,000 RPM. FIG. 5 is a more detailed drawing corresponding to FIG. 4 excluding the spark distributing means 15. Key elements other than those described with reference to FIGS. 1 and 2 are the gated power inverter 13 , the voltage level sensor and power supply 13 controller shut off 16 , the universal input trigger shaper 19 , the gate pulse width controller 20 and the gated clock oscillator 21 . Power inverter 13 is used for charging ignition capacitor 4 which is in series with ignition coil primary 1. SCR switching element 6 is closed to complete the series circuit from ground to the ignition capacitor 4 to ignition coil primary 1. SCR 6 triggering signal is provided from gate clock oscillator 21 which is responsive to the gate pulse width control circuit 20 enabling the clock 21 during the period of time the gate pulse width control 20 is in a high active state the initial trigger is provided directly from 19 . The gate pulse width control 20 is responsive to the universal input trigger converter 19 which conditions and shapes the signal from the ignition trigger means 18 which may be either mechanical breaker contacts or the output of current O.E.M. electronic ignition or any similar single positive trigger igniton timing means. In this way, when the ignition is activated and a signal is received at 18, a sequence of ignition pulses are provided for a period controlled by 20, which has been preselected and preset, and at a rate determined by 21 which has also been preset. Voltage level sensor 16 turns off the gated power inverter 13 when the voltage at 14a reaches a preset value, e.g. 380 volts, and spark firing gate sensor of 16 inhibits gated power inverter 13 during the period of time when SCR 6 discharges capacitor 4 into ignition coil primary 1. In this way power inverter 13 can operate at its maximum possible efficiency and provide a constant output voltage over a range of input voltages Vi. Capacitor 4 and ignition coil 3 can thus be designed for a specific voltage independent of variations of the input voltage Vi. Power inverter circuit 13 has been disclosed in detail in U.S. Patent No. 3,898,971 assigned to the present assignee. The only relevent differences are that power transistors 33a and 33b are of the darlington type and output filter capacitor 38 has connected in series with it damping resistor 38a. Power inverter 13 can also be of the single power transistor flyback type or other which may be more efficient or otherwise more desirable. Voltage sensor contoller 16 is disclosed in detail in patent application S.N. 688,020 of Ward and Lefevre filed of even date herewith and of common assignment. Resistors 45 46 are voltage dividing network for presetting output voltage 14a, and connecting points 39a and 39b are ones used to control shut off power inverter 13. Unit 16 can also operate with other power inverter circuits than that shown herein to optimize efficiency and provide output regulation. Input trigger shaper 19 and gate pulse width controller 20 are disclosed in detail in said patent application S.N. 688,020. Gated clock oscillator is disclosed in detail also in U.S. Patent No. 3,898,971 excepting that initial trigger point 89 is added. FIGS. 6 and 6a depict a spark plug firing end 52 protruding from surrounding cylinder head structure CH which makes use of the high voltage high current capability of the Pulsed Ignition for producing a large moving plasma discharge. The plug end is of the extended type and comprises a center electrode 58 of thickness t preferably approximately .1 inch, insulating ceramic 56, and side electrodes 60 protruding beyond the thread end 53. The plug uses preferably several axial side electrodes to minimize erosion of typical cross sectional dimension d and preferably in the range of .080 .10 inches. The gap 59 of width 1 is preferably in the range of .060 to .120 inches, and will depend on several factors including compression ratio. The center electrode 58 preferably, and with distinct advantage, extends beyond the end 56a of ceramic insulator 56 by a height dimension h which is about equal to t. The orientation of the electrodes 58, 60 insures a maximum self magnetic field 54 represented by dots in circles to show an outwards field direction perpendicular to the plane of the drawing produced by arc currents 57a, 57b, 57c whose direction is shown by arrows for pushing the plasma arc 55 outwards and increasing its size and penetration. By so using the Pulsed Ignition s ability to fire a large gap 59 and to provide high current, the igniting plasma arc energy is distributed over the largest possible volume, is well exposed to the air fuel mixture, and moved away from the plug tip 58a 60a to provide optimum lean mixture igniting ability while minimizing plug electrode 58 60 erosion and minimal interference by the ceramic 56. The above described invention provides substantial improvement in ignition system technology by making possible an ignition system which can provide optimal efficiency, optimal igniting ability, and optimal ignition characteristics and which is simple, practical, low cost and easy to install and retrofit.