# OSMOTIC CONCENTRATION BY MEMBRANE

## Claims
Verfahren zum Konzentrieren einer ersten wässerigen Lösung mit relativ niedrigem osmotischem Druck, bei dem die genannte erste Lösung auf einer Seite einer hydrophoben porösen Barriere zirkuliert wird, während gleichzeitig eine zweite wässerige Lösung mit relativ hohem osmotischem Druck auf der gegenüberliegenden Seite der porösen Barriere zirkuliert wird, wodurch Wasser von der genannten ersten Lösung durch die poröse Barriere hindurch im dampfförmigen Zustand unter dem Einfluß eines osmotischen Druckgradienten zu der zweiten Lösung transferiert wird, was zum Konzentrieren der ersten Lösung führt.

## Description
The present invention relates to a membrane process for the concentration of a liquid, ideally at or below ambient temperature, by utilising the difference of osmotic pressure between two liquids. The process is very useful for the concentration of food and pharmaceutical products in manufacturing processes where the maintenance of product integrity is paramount. Conventional osmosis has long been used for the concentration of food and pharmaceutical products, but suffers numerous disadvantages, especially in the use of hydrophilic membranes which are susceptible to fouling from components contained in the products being concentrated. Further, the fact that there is a continuous aqueous phase from one side of the membrane, through the membrane itself and on the opposite side of the membrane places limitations on the selectivity of osmotic membranes since the hydrophilic membranes allow not only the passage of water but also salts, aldehydes and other materials. Japanese patent no. 57 15803, for example, discloses a typical process for concentration of aqueous solutions by osmosis using a hydrophilic membrane. The application of reverse osmosis to the concentration of solutions, for example dilute food products, and to the production of potable water or water of reduced salts content from seawater has in many cases resulted in significant cost benefits when compared with the conventional evaporation and distillation processes respectively. Nevertheless, there is scope for a further substantial cost reduction by eliminating the fouling problem associated with hydrophilic reverse osmosis membranes. The wettability of these membranes provides for close contact with an adherence of foulants such as organic colourants, various inorganic salts, and suspended and colloidal matter. Fouling has in some cases been alleviated by precipitation and filtration pretreatment processes. However, this adds substantially to the cost of the overall process, thus reducing the attractiveness of the reverse osmosis technique. German specification no. 2547446 discloses a process for purifying effluent solutions in which the solutions are subjected to an osmosis process followed by a reverse osmosis process. Membrane separation and concentration processes which utilise hydrophobic membranes in lieu of hydrophilic membranes potentially afford many advantages, such as reduced membrane fouling and greater selectivity since the hydrophobic membrane provides a barrier between the aqueous liquids solutions on either side of the membrane. Water can only pass from one side to the other in the gaseous or vapour state and thus the hydrophobic membrane constitutes a highly selective vapour gap between the two sides of the membrane. Hydrophobic porous barriers e.g. diffusion barriers, such as hydrophobic porous or microporous membranes of various pore dimensions have been developed for various applications, e.g. for membrane distillation and artificial oxygenation. Hydrophobic membranes are generally made from an hydrophobic polymer, e.g. polytetrafluoroethylene TEFLON or polypropylene, such as membranes produced under the name CELGARD. Hydrophobic membranes can also be made from hydrophilic polymers which have been specially treated to have reticulation of fluorocarbon radicals at the surface of the polymer. Hydrophobic membranes are widely used in the medical industry for artificial oxygenation of blood. Such artificial oxygenation units are discarded after use, and are readily available from hospitals after use. U.S. specification no. 3950247 discloses a pervaporation process in which an aqueous feed mixture is provided on one side of a hydrophobic membrane and a vaporous mixture having a higher concentration of water than the feed mixture is withdrawn from the other side of the membrane. Membrane distillation processes are known which rely on the temperature gradient between two solutions. Chemie Ingenieur Technik 56, 514 contains a review of membrane distillation, that is a process in which a solvent is transferred in vapour form through a hydrophobic membrane from a first aqueous liquid to a second aqueous liquid under the influence of a vapour pressure difference resulting from the temperature difference between the two solutions. Japanese patent no. 60 203173 provides a typical example of a membrane distillation process for the concentration of fruit juices e.g. orange juice wherein the fruit juice heated at 40 C is made to contact one surface of a hydrophobic membrane, whilst the other side of the membrane is cooled with cooling water. The temperature gradient from one side of the membrane to the other provides the driving force for the membrane distillation process. Water from the fruit juice permeates through the membrane in the vapour state i.e. steam and is condensed on the cooled side, thereby concentrating the orange juice. However, the necessity to heat the product to provide the temperature gradient required for membrane distillation introduces the undesirable potential for causing degradation of heat sensitive components leading to undesirable colour and taste characteristics, and possibly to reduced product yields. There may also be a loss of volatile components with an accompanying loss of delicate aromas. There is no previous disclosure of a hydrophobic membrane process, especially suitable for the concentration of food and pharmaceutical products in manufacturing processes where the maintenance of product integrity and purity is paramount a process which is ideally operable at or below ambient temperature to avoid the deleterious effects of heat on the product being concentrated. It is an object of this invention to provide a method for the concentration of a dilute solution by an osmotic distillation process by the transfer of solvent water from the dilute solution in a vapour state through a hydrophobic non wettable porous barrier into a concentrated solution of higher osmotic pressure. It is a preferred object of the present invention to recover part of the energy available between the two different potential energies of the two different solutions due to the difference in osmotic pressure betwen the two solutions. It is yet another preferred object of this invention to provide a process for the fractionation of, or recovery of a solvent from, a solution by a combination of osmotic distillation and reverse osmosis processes. According to one aspect of the present invention there is provided a method for the concentration of a first aqueous solution of relatively low osmotic pressure, in which said first solution is circulated on one side of a hydrophobic porous barrier whilst simultaneously circulating a second aqueous solution of a relatively high osmotic pressure on the opposite side of the porous barrier whereby water from said first solution is transferred across the porous barrier in the vapour state under the influence of an osmotic pressure gradient to the second solution resulting in concentration of the first solution. A method of making such a diffusion barrier comprises chemical treatment of the porous matrix with an agent to increase the hydrophobicity or the non wettable properties thereof. The invention in a preferred form also provides a method for desalination of seawater, in which According to yet another preferred aspect of the invention there is provided a method of recovery of water ideally potable water from a primary aqueous solution of relatively low osmotic concentration e.g. seawater , comprising Osmotic distillation is a process by which dilute solutions such as seawater, fruit juices, milk and coffee may be concentrated by transfer of water in the vapour state and under the influence of an osmotic pressure induced vapour pressure gradient through a hydrophobic non wettable , non fouling porous barrier or membrane into seawater or a concentrated brine e.g. magnesium sulphate, MgSO₄ solution which is free of fouling material. The latter solution may then be treated by reverse osmosis for reconcentration and recycling to the osmotic distillation unit and, in the case of seawater treatment, for the recovery of potable water. In this way the expected life of reverse osmosis membranes can be extended significantly. The invention will be further described with reference to the drawings, in which FIG. 1 schematically illustrates the concentration of fruit juice against seawater or concentrated brine by osmotic distillation. FIG 2. schematically illustrates apparatus according to the invention wherein an osmotic distillation tube is coupled to a reverse osmosis unit for use in e.g. desalination i.e., the production of potable water of high purity from brackish water or seawater. FIG 3. is an enlarged view of the membrane wall of the osmotic distillation apparatus of FIG. 2, schematically illustrating that one of the main driving forces for the transfer of water from the seawater across the membrane wall and into the MgSO₄ solution is a vapour pressure gradient generated by an osmotic pressure gradient. FIG. 4 is a graph illustrating the reverse osmosis flux versus MgSO₄ concentration at an operating pressure of 4130 kPa 40.8 atm of apparatus of the type illustrated in FIG. 2. FIG. 5 is a graph illustrating the osmotic distillation flux versus MgSO₄ concentration for a distilled water MgSO₄ system at 30 kPa water back pressure . FIG. 6 is a graph illustrating the osmotic distillation flux versus the temperature difference between the temperature of the inlet distilled water and the temperature of the inlet MgSO₄ solution at 30 kPa water back pressure . FIG. 7 is a graph illustrating the osmotic distillation flux versus MgSO₄ concentration for a seawater MgSO₄ system at 30kPa seawater back pressure . FIG. 8 is a graph illustrating the osmotic distillation flux versus the temperature difference between the temperature of the inlet seawater and the temperature of the inlet MgSO₄ solution at 30kPa seawater back pressure . FIG. 9 is a graph illustrating the osmotic distillation flux versus seawater flow rate 14 MgSO₄, 40 kPa seawater back pressure, 0.71 l min MgSO₄ . FIG. 10 is a graph illustrating the osmotic distillation flux versus MgSO₄ solution flow rate 14 MgSO₄, 40 kPa seawater back pressure, 1.36 l min seawater flow rate . FIG. 11 is a graph illustrating the relationship between the osmotic distillation flux and MgSO₄ concentration under preferred conditions for this example. In the drawings, FIG. 1 schematically illustrates the concentration of orange juice in a hollow fibre osmotic distillation unit wherein fresh orange juice at a concentration of 12 The pure orange juice pumped through the osmotic distillation tube under low pressure becomes concentrated as it passes through the hollow fibres due to a transfer of water across the fibre walls into the seawater. The driving force for this transfer is the combined effect of a vapour pressure or osmotic gradient and a temperature gradient, brought about by an elevation of the vapour pressure of the orange juice by gentle heating before it enters the tube, and a depressed seawater vapour pressure by virtue of its relatively high osmotic pressure. The hydrophobicity of the membrane prevents transfer of liquid water and the fouling problems associated with hydrophilic membranes. FIG. 2 shows the coupling of an osmotic distillation tube and reverse osmosis unit suitable for desalination of seawater or brackish water. A suitable osmotic distillation tube comprises a cylindrical polycarbonate outer shell diameter 100mm, length 300mm with conical entry top and exit bottom chambers for the solution being concentrated. The entry and exit chambers are linked by ca. 62,000 hydrophobic polypropylene hollow fibre membranes inside diameter 200 um, wall thickness 25 um, effective length 140 mm, average pore diameter 700 Å 70 nm , porosity 50 per cent, total area 5.4 m² which are sealed together at both ends in a polyurethane resin potting compound so that they are contained in a jacket with entry and exit ports. A concentrated brine solution e.g. magnesium sulphate, MgSO₄ containing no suspended or colloidal material is pumped through this jacket approximately countercurrent to the internal flow. Normal dilute seawater pumped through the osmotic distillation tube under low pressure becomes concentrated as it passes through the hollow fibres due to a transfer of water across the fibre walls into the MgSO₄ solution. The driving force for this transfer is a vapour pressure gradient, brought about by an elevation of the vapour pressure of the dilute solution by heating before it enters the tube, and a depressed MgSO₄ solution vapour pressure by virtue of its high osmotic pressure. The hydrophobicity of the membrane prevents transfer of liquid water and the fouling problems associated with hydrophilic membranes. The diluted MgSO₄ solution is pumped to the reverse osmosis R.O. unit where potable water is extracted using a hollow fibre R.O. membranes. The test apparatus has provision for two R.O. membrane modules, each of which contains nominally ca. 1300 hollow fibres effective length 760 mm, total area per module 0.9 m² . MgSO₄ was chosen for the brine solution because of its high rejection by the reverse osmosis membrane. FIG. 3 schematically illustrates that the main driving forces for the transfer of water from the seawater relatively low osmotic pressure across the membrane wall and into the MgSO₄ solution relatively high osmotic pressure is a vapour pressure gradient. Combined with the effect of the temperature gradient between the two solutions there is provided the means for substantially increasing the flux of water by the process of osmotic distillation. The osmotic distillation unit produces large fluxes at high MgSO₄ concentrations where the MgSO₄ stream is hydrated and at high temperature differences of the MgSO₄ stream and seawater stream. The reverse osmosis unit performs best at low MgSO₄ concentration so in coupling the two units an optimisation is made to yield high flux and low MgSO₄ concentrations in the H₂O permeate. Optimisation studies on the conditions of operation were carried out on both the osmotic distillation and reverse osmosis systems in order to effect an efficient coupling of the two units. Experiments were designed to ascertain the set of operating conditions which would allow the maximum yield of potable water from seawater. In the experimental apparatus comprising a Syrinx Research 4 tube osmotic evaporation unit coupled with a suitable 2 tube reverse osmosis unit, the reverse osmosis flux was found to increase linearly with feed pressure up to the maximum safe operating pressure tested of 4130 kPa 40.8 atm or 600 p.s.i . All testing was carried out at this pressure. FIG. 4 illustrates the reverse osmosis R.O. flux versus MgSO₄ concentration and shows that significant fluxes cannot be obtained at the pressure used with solutions of MgSO₄ concentrations greater than about 14 per cent. Rejection or retention of the MgSO₄ by the R.O. membrane decreases as its concentration increases. These results indicate for this embodiment that for maximum flux and MgSO₄ rejection, the R.O. unit should be operated at 4130 kPa using the minimum possible concentration of MgSO₄. However, the actual concentration used in the coupled system will be largely dependent on the concentration required to give an acceptable osmotic distillation flux. In order to determine some basic operating characteristics of the osmotic distillation process and to more fully understand the behaviour of seawater in this process, the initial series of tests involved passing distilled water rather than seawater through the hollow fibre membranes. Referring to FIG. 5, it is seen that osmotic distillation flux increases exponentially with increasing MgSO₄ concentration. This is presumably due to increased lowering of the water vapour pressure on the MgSO₄ solution side of the membrane with a resulting increase in water vapour pressure gradient across the membrane. Periodic analysis of the outlet water stream showed that there was no leakage of MgSO₄ across the membrane, thus confirming the hydrophobicity of the latter. FIG. 6 illustrates flux versus difference between inlet water temperature and inlet MgSO₄ solution temperature. The observed increase in flux with increasing temperature gradient is a consequence of the enhanced water vapour pressure on the water side of the membrane relative to that on the MgSO₄ solution side. FIG. 7 illustrates flux versus MgSO₄ concentration. As in the case of distilled water there is an increase in flux with increasing MgSO₄ concentration. However, the seawater fluxes are considerably less than those for distilled water at the same MgSO₄ concentrations due to the high osmotic pressure of the seawater. Indeed, no mass transfer from seawater was observed for MgSO₄ concentrations below 9 to 10 per cent. The latter observation is consistent with the known osmotic pressures for MgSO₄ and NaCl solutions. As shown in FIG. 7 the seawater tested behaves in a similar way to a 2.6 per cent NaCl solution. A 2.6 per cent 0.44 molar NaCl solution has an osmotic pressure ca. 19 atm 1863 kPa equivalent to that of a 0.78 molar 9.4 per cent MgSO₄ solution at 25 FIG. 8 illustrates flux versus difference between inlet seawater temperature and inlet MgSO₄ solution temperature. It is clear from FIG. 8 that there is an obvious trend towards higher fluxes with increasing temperature gradient. For a MgSO₄ concentration of 12 per cent, a flux of ca. 0.5 litres per square metre per day is observed in the absence of a temperature gradient FIG. 7 . However, FIG. 8 shows that this flux can be significantly increased by employing a temperature gradient of 30 to 35 FIG. 9 illustrates flux versus seawater flow rate. For a MgSO₄ solution flow rate of 0.71 litre per minute, flux increases with increasing seawater flow rate. This is presumably due to more rapid replacement of the seawater boundary layer in which the salt concentration increases as vapour transfer occurs. A build up of salt in the boundary layer would cause a localised increase in osmotic pressure and hence a decrease in vapour pressure gradient. FIG. 10 illustrates flux versus MgSO₄ solution flow rate. For a seawater flow rate of 1.36 litres per minute, flux decreases slightly with increasing MgSO₄ solution flow rate. As in the case of increasing seawater flow rate above, this presumably causes more rapid replacement of the boundary layer, this time on the MgSO₄ solution side of the membrane. A build up of MgSO₄ in the boundary layer and hence an increase in osmotic pressure is beneficial in this case since the vapour pressure gradient is increased. The results of the optimisation studies suggest that the conditions for operation of the osmotic distillation unit should be selected on the basis of the following considerations FIGS. 4 and 10 show that a 14 per cent MgSO₄ solution gives an osmotic distillation flux of 50 litres per day and that the diluted MgSO₄ solution can be reconcentrated by the reverse osmosis unit provided that both of the membrane modules are in operation. At a concentration of 14 per cent MgSO₄, the combined flux of the two reverse osmosis membrane modules is ca. 2.5 litres per square metre per hour 55 litres per day . Figure 11 shows that considerably higher osmotic distillation fluxes can be achieved at higher MgSO₄ concentrations e.g. ca. 90 litres per day at 18 per cent MgSO₄ . However, the particular membrane modules used in this particular embodiment are incapable of withstanding the high pressure required to overcome the osmotic pressure of such solutions. In summary the results show that the pressure difference across the membrane is the main contributing variable determining the flux. The pressure difference is due to osmotic pressure differences and temperature differences across the membrane. The experimental results show that Mg SO₄ concentration and temperatures of the MgSO₄ stream and seawater stream are very important variables in governing the flux. This is because the MgSO₄ concentration is related directly to the osmotic pressure of the stream at a given temperature. Another important variable is the seawater flowrate. The osmotic pressure of a liquid is linked to the vapour pressure at equilibrium by the relationship where If the solution under consideration behaves ideally then Raoult s Law is obeyed andP P where For this reason, any solute lowers the vapour pressure of a solvent, and there is at the gas interface between two liquids having different osmotic pressures a transfer of solvent from the lower osmotic pressure liquid to the higher osmotic pressure liquid. This process can be illustrated using an artificial oxygenator of the following type developed by Terumo Corporation of Japan The hollow fibre membranes are made from polypropylene, and have pore dimensions of 700 Angstrom 70 nm . This equipment is normally used for artificial oxygenation of blood, with blood being circulated through the hollow fibres and oxygen gas being circulated in the jacket surrounding the hollow fibres, i.e. on the outside of the hollow fibres. In this case there is transfer of oxygen gas from the outside of the hollow fibres to the blood circulating inside the hollow fibres. For this type of medical application, such hollow fibre oxygenator units are normally disposed of after a single use. However, according to the teaching of one aspect of the present invention it is possible to recycle such hollow fibre oxygenator units for different applications. Taking such a used oxygenator unit, and cleaning the unit with suitable cleaning agents, e.g. PYRONEG, drying the unit and increasing the hydrophobicity of the fibre by chemical treatment, we obtain a unit which can be used for osmotic concentration. The chemical treatment of the hollow fibres to increase the hydrophobicity is desirable to maintain the long term working properties of the unit in osmotic concentration processes. An example of the chemical treatment of the hollow fibres is given as follows If in such a unit pure water is circulated inside the hollow fibres, and seawater is circulated in the jacketed space surrounding the hollow fibres, the pure water would evaporate inside the pores and is condensed on the seawater side, with a flux of approximately 12 l m² day at room temperature. In the same manner, if the pure water stream is replaced by any liquid having an osmotic pressure lower than the osmotic pressure of the seawater, then the said liquid will be concentrated as a result of the continuous evaporation of its water content, and the condensation thereof on the seawater side. By reference to equation 1 , above, the flux of solvent through the system is proportional to the difference P P The present invention will be further described with reference to the following non limiting disclosure of some of the other possible applications of the invention. Examples of liquids which may be concentrated by this method include foodstuffs such as milk, whey, coffee, tea, fruit and vegetable juices, and sugar cane juice. Other examples include applications in the pharmaceutical and fine chemicals industries where heat labile products can be concentrated by osmotic distillation. The liquid to be concentrated is circulated on one side of the membrane and seawater is circulated on the other side. An increase of flux is achieved by an increase of static pressure of the liquid to be concentrated, and preferably an increase of the temperature thereof compared to the temperature of seawater, for example by the use of recovered waste heat from other sources in the factory. In this regard, most artifical oxygenator units are already equipped with some form of heat exchanger which can be used for this purpose. Concentration of liquids of relatively low osmotic pressure, such as milk, whey, fruit and vegetable juices and cane juice, as described above, can be obtained by a process using the difference in osmotic pressure between such solutions and a highly concentrated solution of a salt e.g. NaCl. In this case, the concentration of the NaCl solution is maintained by one of the following methods The invention can also be used to produce and to recover energy, part of the energy potential which exists between two streams, one of high osmotic pressure e.g. seawater, brines etc., and a stream of low osmotic pressure e.g. fresh water from rivers, including brackish water, and also water from sewerage etc. In all of these applications, the transfer of water from the low osmotic pressure side to the high osmotic pressure side is used to pressurize the high osmotic pressure liquid, and the energy is recovered by any classical means using two liquids of different pressure e.g. high pressure turbines, piezoelectric cells, using an oscillating pressure. A further aspect of the invention is the use of the process as a complement of reverse osmosis processes to produce pure water from seawater or brackish water. Most reverse osmosis membranes have rejection coefficients of the order of 95 for NaCl when membranes are designed to have high specific flux but have high rejection characteristics, for example 99.7 , for other salts e.g. magnesium sulphate . A further use of the invention is to use a highly concentrated solution of a salt, which is easily rejected by the reverse osmosis membrane, as the high osmotic pressure solution, and to use seawater or brackish water as the low osmotic pressure solution relative to the other solution and to extract water therefrom. In this case, without pre treatment of the seawater stream, pure water is produced by reverse osmosis of the high pressure solution. In this regard the invention provides an efficient desalination process for the recovery of potable water or water of substantially reduced salts content from seawater or brackish water. The recovered water can be supplemented where required by the addition of salts, minerals and or other additives. Further, by a selective choice of salts for the concentrated salt solution it is possible to use more open membranes to concentrate and recycle the diluted high osmotic pressure solution and or to recover the water therefrom. For example, selecting a salt which in solution has a large anion and a small cation e.g. acotinic acid, which has a large anion and a free acid function allows the choice of a more open membrane, but having a pore size sufficient to reject the large anion. If this membrane is positively charged by sulphochlorination and amination there is provided a porous membrane which rejects H ions by the charge effect and rejects anions by size. Similarly where the solution contains a base comprising a large cation and a small anion e.g. OH the porous membrane is chosen such that the large cation is rejected by size and wherein the OH can be rejected by negatively charging the membrane.