# TIMING GENERATING DEVICE

## Claims
Zeitsteuergeneratoranordnung zur Erzeugung von Zeitsteuerimpulsen einer voreingestellten Periode und Phase umfassend einen Taktgenerator 10 zur Erzeugung von Bezugstaktimpulsen einer Periode T eine Periodeneinstelleinrichtung 21 , in der eine zu erzeugende Periode m k T wobei m eine ganze Zahl größer als 1 und 0 k 1 sind zur Erzeugung voreingestellter Periodendaten eingestellt wird einen Periodengenerator 12 , der die voreingestellten Periodendaten der Periodeneinstelleinrichtung und die Bezugstaktimpulse von dem Taktgenerator empfängt und in Abständen eines ganzzahligen Vielfachen der Periode T Impulse erzeugt, deren Durchschnittsperiode gleich der voreingestellten Periode m k T ist, und Bruchteilsperiodendaten RD ausgibt, die die Phasendifferenz zwischen den Impulsen der Durchschnittsperiode und den Impulsen der voreingestellten Periode bei jedem Auftreten von diesen angibt eine Verzögerungseinstelleinrichtung 17 , in der eine vorzusehende Verzögerungszeit n i T wobei n null oder eine positive ganze Zahl ist und 0 i 1 eingestellt wird, zur Lieferung grober Verzögerungsdaten CDH , die eine Verzögerungszeit nT bezeichnen, und von Bruchteilsverzögerungsdaten CDL , die eine Verzögerungszeit iT bezeichnen eine Grobverzögerungseinrichtung 16 , die mit der Verzögerungseinstelleinrichtung und dem Periodengenerator verbunden ist, um einen Puls B3 zu erzeugen, der um die Zeit nT gegenüber dem vom Periodengenerator gelieferten Puls verzögert ist einen Addierer 83 zum Zusammenaddieren der Bruchteilsperiodendaten von dem Periodengenerator und der Bruchteilsverzögerungsdaten von der Verzögerungseinstelleinrichtung und einen Feinverzögerungsabschnitt 84 , der mit der Ausgabe des Addierers und dem verzögerten Puls von der Grobverzögerungseinrichtung beliefert wird und den verzögerten Puls um eine Zeit entsprechend der Additionsausgabe des Addierers weiter verzögert, und einen Zeitsteuerpuls erzeugt.

## Description
The present invention relates to a timing generating device which is employed, for example, in IC test equipment, for generating timing signals of preset various periods and phases. This kind of timing generating device heretofore employed has such an arrangement as shown in Fig. 1. Based on period data set in a period generating section 11 a period generator 12 yields pulses A₁ of a period m where m is a variable positive integer times the period T of a reference clock CK in Fig. 2 which is applied to a terminal 13 and pulses A₂ of a period p where p is a positive integer smaller than the abovesaid m times the period T. In Fig. 2 the period mT of the pulses A₁ assumes 8T and 9T alternately and the period pT of the pulses A₂ is 2T within each sequence. The average period of the pulses A₁ is equal to a set period. The period generator 12 further creates fractional period data RD indicative of a delay time shorter than the period T in accordance with low order data of a weight less than the period T in the abovementioned preset period data and the state of generation of the pulses A₁. The fractional period data RD represents the phase difference between the pulses of the preset period and the pulses A₁ upon each occurrence of them. The pulses A₁ and A₂ and the fractional period data RD are introduced into a fine delay circuit 14, wherein some of the pulses A₁ and A₂ are delayed for a period of time shorter than the period T in accordance with the fractional period data RD and from which they are output as pulses B₁ and B₂, respectively. In the example depicted in Fig. 2 the pulses A₁ are alternately delayed by T 2 and all the pulses A₂ which occur between the pulse A₁ to be delayed and immediately following pulse A₁ are also delayed by T 2. The period of the pulses B₁ becomes the preset period, i.e. 8.5 T in this example. The pulses B₁ and B₂ are provided to a coarse delay circuit 16 of a delay generating section 15. The coarse delay circuit 16 is supplied with high order delay data CDH contained in delay data CD set in a delay setting means 17. The coarse delay circuit 16 delays the pulses B₁ in units of the period of the pulses B₂ in accordance with the data CDH, yielding pulses E. Fig. 2 shows the case where the pulses E are each delayed by 4T. The pulses E are applied to a fine delay circuit 18, wherein they are delayed corresponding to low order delay data CDL contained in the delay data CD set in the delay setting means 17, producing pulses F, that is, timing pulses. Conventionally, the period generator 12 has such an arrangement as depicted in Fig. 3. A period m k T where m is a positive integer and 0 k 1 to be generated is set in a period setting means 21, from which corresponding period data is provided. Let the number of bits weighted more heavily than a unit period T in the period data and the number of bits weighted less heavily than the unit period T be represented by n₁ and n₂, respectively. In Fig. 3 the bit numbers are n₁ 5 and n₂ 2 and weights of the respective bits are represented by multiples of T. In this example data indicating a value obtained by subtracting T from the period m k T to be generated is provided from the period setting means 21. In the example depicted in Fig. 2 the period m k T to be generated is 8.5 T and period data 0011110 is output correspondingly, as shown in Fig. 3. A set reset flip flop 22 for starting state setting use and an n₂ bit D flip flop 23 for accumulation use are pre reset by an initialization signal INIT from a terminal 24. As depicted in Fig. 4, upon application of a start signal START to a terminal 25, the flip flop 22 is set to make its Q output G1 high level, enabling gates 26 and 27. The start signal START is applied as well to an OR gate 28, the output S₆ of which is provided to a gate 29 to enable it. The reference clock pulses CK from a clock generator 10 are applied via the terminal 13 to the gate 29, from which one of the reference clock pulses is output as the pulse A₁. Further, the output S₆ of the OR gate 28 is provided to a load terminal LO of an n₁ bit down counter 31. The counter 31 is a clock synchronous type counter, in which data of the high order n₁ bits in the output of the period setting means 21, that is, data corresponding to mT, are preset by the negative going edge of the reference clock CK when the signal S₆ is being applied. That is, the counter 31 is initialized and its count value D₁ is set to 7 in this example, as depicted in Fig. 4. Thereafter the counter 31 is decremented by the negative going edge of each reference clock pulse CK. The output S₆ of the OR gate 28 is applied as well to a differentiation circuit 32, the output S₇ of which is provided to a counter 33, clearing its count value D₄ to zero. The counter 33 is to make the period of the pulses A₂ p times longer than the period T. In this example p 2 and upon each counting of two reference clock pulses CK by the counter 33, an inverter 34 yields a signal S₈ of a duration equal to the period T. The signal S₈ is fed to the gate 27, from which is obtained, as the pulse A₂, output of coincidence between the signals G₁ and S₈ and the reference clock pulse CK. Data corresponding to the low order n₂ bits or kT contained in the set period data output from the period setting means 21 is provided to an n₂ bit adder 35, wherein it is added to the output of the n₂ bit flip flop 23, and the added output is supplied to data terminals D₀ and D₁ of the flip flop 23. In this example n₂ 2, so the adder 35 is a 2 bit adder. A carry output C₁ of the adder 35 is applied to a gate 36 after being inverted and to a gate 37 without being inverted. In the initial state the flip flop 23 is reset and its output is 0 , so that the carry output C₁ is 0 and the gate 36 remains enabled. A high order bit output d₂ in the 2 bit output of the adder 35 is high level since in this example two low order bits of the set period data are 1 and 0 , respectively. The output of the adder 35 is applied to the flip flop 23 upon the fall of the output S₅ from the gate 26 and the output of the flip flop 23 is provided as the fractional period data RD of the period generator 12. The flip flop 23 and the adder 35 constitute an accumulator 20. When the down counter 31 has counted the reference clock pulses CK by the number corresponding to the number m which is set to 7 in this example, that is, when the count value D₁ of the counter 31 is decremented to zero, a zero detector 38 yields an output S₁, which is applied to the gate 36, the output S₂ of which is provided via an OR gate 39 to the gate 26, the output S₅ of which is fed to the OR gate 28. In consequence, the gate 29 produces, as the pulse A₁, one reference clock pulse CK 8T apart from the pulse A₁ which occurred at the start of operation. Moreover, the output generation from the OR gate 28 induces an output from the differentiation circuit 32, by which the counter 33 is cleared and the high order n₁ bits of the set period data are preset in the down counter 31. By the negative going edge of the output S₅ of the gate 26 the output of the adder 35 is input into the flip flop 23, the outputs d₃ and d₄ of which go to 1 and 0 , respectively. The high order bit output d₃ goes high, so that the output bits of the adder 35 both go to 0s , its carry output C₁ becomes high level and its output d₂ low level. In this state similar operations are performed. When the down counter 31 is decremented to zero next, the output S₁ of the detector 38 is fed to the gate 37, the output S₃ of which is placed by the next reference clock pulse CK into a D flip flop 41, the output S₄ of which is, in turn, applied to the gate 26. Consequently, the pulse A₁ is provided from the gate 29 as in the above, but this pulse A₁ is 9T apart from the preceding pulse A₁. Furthermore, the output S₅ of the gate 26 is applied to the flip flop 23 to make its output d₃ low level, with the result that the output d₂ of the adder 35 goes high, thus returning the period generator 12 to the initial state. Therefore, the same operations as described above are repeated. Namely, the period of the pulses A₁ becomes 8T and 9T alternately, the period of the pulses A₂ becomes 2T and the fractional period data RD assumes d₃ 0, d₄ 0 0T and d₃ 1, d₄ 0 0.5T for the periods of 8T and 9T, respectively. In other words, data corresponding to kT in the output data of the period setting means 21 is accumulated in an accumulation circuit 20 upon each occurrence of the pulse A₁, and the bits d₃ and d₄ in the accumulated output, except the carry bit, are provided as the fractional period data RD. Moreover, the output of the detector 38 is switched by the gates 36 and 37 to the OR gate 39 or the flip flop 41 acting as a delay, from which it is applied to the gate 26 without being delayed or after being delayed by T. The fine delay circuit 14 in Fig. 1 has an arrangement such, for instance, as depicted in Fig. 5. The pulses A₁ and A₂ from the period generator 12 are respectively delayed by delay circuits 42 and 43 and supplied as pulses A₁ and A₂ to gates 44, 45 and 46, 47, respectively, as shown in Fig. 6. The delay circuits 42 and 43 have the same delay time. This delay is effected so that the fractional period data RD is changed prior to the occurrence of the pulse A₁ , that is, the pulse A₁ is delayed to assure that the added output of the adder 35 has been settled in the flip flop 23 and its new output has been established at the occurrence of the pulse A₁ . While the period of the pulses A₁ is 8T, the fractional period data RD is d₃ 0 and by the bit d₃ the gates 44 and 46 are enabled and the gates 45 and 47 disabled. The outputs of the gates 44 and 46 are supplied via OR gates 48 and 49 to gates 51, 52 and 53, 54, respectively, and the outputs of the gates 51 and 53 are provided to OR gates 55 and 56, respectively. In the above example the data d₄ is always 0 and by this bit d₄ the gates 51 and 53 are always enabled and the gates 52 and 54 disabled. Accordingly, while d₃ 0, the pulses A₁ and A₂ are respectively output as pulses B₁ and B₂ via the gates 44, 48, 51, 55 and 46, 49, 53, 56. While the period of the pulses A₁ is 9T, since d₃ 1 and d₄ 0, the gates 44 and 46 are closed and the gates 45 and 47 open. The pulses A₁ and A₂ are supplied via the gates 45 and 47 to T 2 delay elements 57 and 58, wherein they are delayed by T 2, and the delayed outputs are provided as the pulses B₁ and B₂ via the gates 48, 51, 55 and via the gates 49, 53 and 56. The occurrence of pulse B₁ produced at this time is 8.5T after the preceding pulse B₁ having passed through the gates 44, 48, 51 and 55. The next pulse A₁ passes through the gate 44. Thereafter the same operation repeats itself, making the period of the pulses B₁ 8.5T. Incidentally, the outputs of the gates 52 and 54 are provided to the OR gates 55 and 56 via T 4 delay circuits 61 and 62. Fig. 7 illustrates an example of the coarse delay circuit 16 used in Fig. 1. A clock synchronous type counter 63 is cleared by the pulses B₁ and the pulses B₂ are delayed by a delay circuit 64 and are counted, as pulses B₂ , by the counter 63, as shown in Fig. 8. That is, the counter 63 starts to count the pulses B₂ after being cleared. The high order data CDH of the data indicating the set delay time, which is available from the delay setting means 17, is composed of four bits b₁, b₂, b₃ and b₄ representing delay time 16T, 8T, 4T and 2T, respectively, and since only the bit b₃ is 1 and the other bits are 0s , the set delay time is 4T. The high order data CDH and the count value D₅ of the counter 63 are compared by a coincidence detector 65. As depicted in Fig. 8, when the count value D₅ has reached 2, the coincidence detector 65 yields an output S₉, by which a gate 66 is enabled, and the pulse B₂ occurring in this while is output as the delayed pulse E. The fine delay circuit 18 in Fig. 1 has an arrangement such, for example, as shown in Fig. 9. Fractional delay data CDL which is represented by low order bits in the delay data corresponding to the delay time set in the delay setting means 17 is composed of three bits b₅, b₆ and b₇, representing delay time T, T 2 and T 4, respectively, by which pairs of gates 67 and 68, 71 and 72, 73 and 74 are each controlled to be enabled and disabled. The delayed pulse E is applied to the gates 67 and 68. The outputs of the gates 67, 71 and 73 are provided to OR gates 75, 76 and 77, whereas the outputs of the gates 68, 72 and 74 are fed via T, T 2 and T 4 delay elements 78, 79 and 81 to the OR gates 75, 76 and 77. The output of the OR gate 75 is applied to the gates 71 and 72 and the output of the OR gate 76 to the gates 73 and 74. In the case where the fractional delay data CDL is a T 2 delay, the bits b₅, b₆ and b₇ are a 0 , a 1 and a 0 , respectively, and the gates 67, 72 and 73 are enabled and the gates 68, 71 and 74 disabled. The pulse E passes through the gates 67, 75 and 72, a T 2 delay element 79 and the gates 76, 73 and 77 and is output as the pulse F delayed by 0.5T, as shown in Fig. 8. In Fig. 8 broken lined ones of the pulses E and F indicate the positions of pulses which occur when the set delay time is zero. As described above, according to the prior art timing generating device, the operation starts with the creation of the pulse B₁ of a period set in the period generating section 11 and then the pulse B₁ is delayed by a value set in the delay generating section 15. To perform this, the period generating section 11 employs the fine delay circuit 14 and the delay generating section 15 also uses the fine delay circuit 18. In order to produce timing pulses of various periods and phases in small units, that is, to enhance resolution, it is necessary to increase the number of delay switching stages in each of the fine delay circuits 14 and 18 and to use delay elements of small delay amounts. Since the unit of delay by the coarse delay circuit 16 is an integral multiple of the reference clock period T, i.e. 2T in the above example, the number of delay switching stages in the fine delay circuit 18 is greater than in the fine delay circuit 14. For instance, a frequency as high as 250 or 500 MHz has come into use as the reference clock in IC test equipment. In such a case, an extremely high resolution is required and delay elements of high accuracy and stability are needed. Conventional delay elements are mere printed circuits, LC transmission lines, CR transmission lines, gate circuits and so forth. It is difficult, however, to accurately maintain the delay time of each delay element untouched by aging and environmental variations such as a temperature change. In addition, delay elements which are insusceptible to such variations and high in precision are expensive, and the prior art requires such costly delay elements for the both fine delay circuits 14 and 18. It is therefore an object of the present invention to provide a timing generating device which is able to generate periods and phases with high resolution, small in the number of delay elements used, relatively simple in structure and high precision. This object is achieved with a timing generating device as claimed. Details and advantages of the invention will be readily understood from the following description of preferred embodiments. Fig. 10 illustrates an embodiment of the present invention, in which the parts corresponding to those in Fig. 1 are identified by the same reference numerals. The period generator 12 receives period data corresponding to the period m k T where m 1, 2, 3, ... and 0 k 1 set in the period setting means 21 and the reference clock CK, and generates the pulses A₁ which have an instantaneous period which is an integral multiple of the reference clock period T and an average period which is equal to the set period m k T and the fractional period data RD which indicates the phase difference between each of the pulses A₁ and each pulse of the set period m k T. The period generator 12 may be the same as that shown in Fig. 3, but in the present invention only the pulses A₁ and the fractional period data RD are utilized, so the part for creating the pulses A₂ in Fig. 3 is left out. The pulses A₁ from the period generator 12 are each delayed by the coarse delay circuit 16 which uses a counter in accordance with the high order delay data CDH of the delay setting means 17. In this instance, according to the present invention, the counter is initialized by the pulse A₁ and starts counting the reference clock pulses from the terminal 13. The coarse delay circuit 16 provides a pulse B₃ delayed by nT where n is a positive integer including zero relative to the pulse A₁. To perform this, the high order delay data CDH which is provided from the delay setting means 17 to the coarse delay circuit 16 is represented by five bits b₁, b₂, b₃, b₄ and b₅ which are weighted by 16T, 8T, 4T, 2T and T, respectively. The fractional delay data CDL contained in the delay data available from the delay setting means 17 and the fractional period data RD are added together by an adder 83. In this embodiment the fractional delay data CDL is represented by two bits, b₆ and b₇ which are weighted by T 2 and T 4, respectively. The output delayed pulse B₃ from the coarse delay circuit 16 is further delayed in a fine delay section 84 in accordance with the added output of the adder 83. In the fine delay section 84, upon generation of a carry output C₃ from the adder 83, the delayed pulse B₃ is delayed by a unit delay circuit 85 for T, thereafter being applied to the fine delay circuit 18. In the absence of the carry output C₃, the delayed pulse B₃ is provided via the unit delay circuit 85 to the fine delay circuit 18 without being delayed. The fine delay circuit 18 is identical in construction with that shown in Fig. 9 and its delay time is controlled by the added output TD of the adder 83 except that the output G of the unit delay circuit 85 is directly supplied to both the gates 71 and 72 and those gates 67, 68, 75 and the delay element 78 are dispensed with because the control of unit delay time T corresponding to bit b₅ is carried out in the coarse delay circuit 16. To facilitate a better understanding of the operation of the device depicted in Fig. 10, a description will be given of various examples thereof with reference to Fig. 11. Now, let it be assumed that the set period m k T 8 0.5 T 8.5T and the set delay n i T 0 0 T 0 in the arrangement of Fig. 10. The period generator 12 yields the pulses A₁ of an average period equal to the set period m k T 8.5T, as shown in Fig. 11, at intervals of an integral multiple of the reference clock period T, as described previously in connection with Figs. 1 and 3. The period generator 12 further provides the fractional period data RD indicating an accumulated value of kT, but in this example, since k 0.5, the fractional period data RD indicating 0T or 0.5T is provided upon each occurrence of the pulse A₁. The pulse A₁ occurring after the interval the instantaneous period 9T is followed by the pulse A₁ with the fractional period data RD indicating 0.5T. Since the set delay time n i T 0, the pulse A₁ is supplied to the fine delay section 84 without being delayed by the coarse delay circuit 16. Furthermore, since iT 0, the fractional period data RD is yielded as the output of the adder 83 and the carry output C₃ is always zero, so the output TD is equal to the data RD. Accordingly, the pulse A₁ entered into the fine delay section 84 is applied to the fine delay circuit 18 without being delayed by the unit delay circuit 85. The fine delay circuit 18 delays the input pulse by T 2 only when the fractional period data RD corresponds to 0.5T. As a result of this, the output timing pulses are such as indicated by H₁ in Fig. 11. The pulses H₁ coincide with the pulses B₁ shown in Fig. 2. In this way, according to the present invention, the operation of the fine delay circuit 14 in the conventional device shown in Fig. 1 is performed by the fine delay circuit 18. Next, in the case where the set period is given by m k T 8 0.5 T 8.5T and the set delay amount n i T 4 0 T 4T, the period generator 12 creates the pulses A₁ of instantaneous periods at intervals of 8T and 9T alternately and the fractional period data RD indicating 0T and 0.5T, as in the above. Since the coarse delay data the high order bit data CDH in the output of the delay setting means 17 is indicative of nT 4, the pulses A₁ are each delayed by the coarse delay circuit 16 for 4T and output as a pulse B₃, as depicted in Fig. 11. Since iT 0, the output of the adder 83 is equal to the fractional period data RD as in the above. Consequently, the pulses B₃ entered into the fine delay section 84 are alternately delayed by 0.5T, as indicated by H₂ in Fig. 11, and provided as timing pulses. Next, in the case where the set period is m k T 8 0.5 T 8.5T and the set delay amount is n i T 4 0.5 T 4.5T, the period generator 12 generates the same pulses A₁ and fractional period data RD as those described above and the coarse delay circuit 16 yields the pulses B₃ obtained by delaying the pulses A₁ by nT 4T. In the adder 83 the fractional delay data CDL indicating iT 0.5T, available from the delay setting means 17, and the fractional period data RD are added together. In this instance, however, since the fractional period data RD is 0T and 0.5T alternately every other pulse A₁, the adder 83 outputs data corresponding to 0.5T and 1.0T alternately, that is, data TD corresponding to the carry output C₃ 0 and 0.5 and data TD indicating the carry output C₃ 1 and 0 alternately. Accordingly, the pulses B₃ are delayed for 0.5T in the fine delay section 84 when the carry output C₃ 0, as indicated by H₃ in Fig. 11, and for 1.0T in the unit delay circuit 85 when the carry output C₃ 1, and they are not delayed by the fine delay circuit 18 and provided as timing pulses. In short, in the fine delay section 84 the pulses B₃ are each delayed by the delay amount iT 0.5T in accordance with the fractional delay data CDL from the delay setting means 17 at all times and are selectively delayed in accordance with the fractional period data RD. Fig. 12 illustrates specific operative examples of the coarse delay circuit 16 and the unit delay circuit 85. The coarse delay circuit 16 is substantially identical in construction to that shown in Fig. 7, but its counter 63 is supplied at the clock terminal with the reference clock pulses CK from the terminal 13 and the pulses A₁ are each delayed by a delay circuit 86 for a period substantially equal to the pulse width of the pulse A₁, thereafter being applied as pulses A₁ to the clear terminal of the counter 63. The count value D₆ of the counter 63 and the high order bits b₁ to b₅ the coarse delay data CDH in the delay data from the delay setting means 17 are compared by the coincidence detector 65 and in the case of coincidence, the coincidence detected output is provided to gates 87 and 88 in the unit delay circuit 85. In the absence of the carry output C₃ from the adder 83, the gate 87 is enabled, whereas in the presence of the carry output C₃, the gate 88 is enabled. The output of the gate 87 is provided via an OR gate 89 to the gate 66. The output of the gate 88 is applied to a D flip flop 91 and input thereinto by the reference clock pulse CK from the terminal 13. The output of the flip flop 91 is provided to the OR gate 89. The gate 66 is being supplied with the reference clock pulses CK. Fig. 13 illustrates, by way of example, operations of this embodiment in the case where the set period is m k T 8 0.5 T 8.5T and the set delay amount is n i T 4 0.5 T 4.5T as described previously in connection with the prior art. In Fig. 10 the reference clock pulses CK are supplied to the period generator 12, which operates in the same manner as in the case of Fig. 3 to produce the pulses A₁ at intervals of 8T and 9T alternately and provide, as the fractional period data RD, d₃ 0 and d₄ 0 0T during the period 8T of the pulse A₁ and d₃ 1 and d₄ 0 0.5T during the period 9T of the pulse A₁. The pulse A₁ is delayed by the delay circuit 86 into the pulse A₁ , by which the counter 63 is cleared to zero, causing it to start counting the reference clock pulses CK. When its count value D₄ is incremented to 4, its coincidence with the coarse delay data CDH the high order bits b₁ 0, b₂ 0, b₃ 1, b₄ 0, b₅ 0 of the set delay amount is detected by the coincidence detector 65, yielding the delayed pulse B₃ from the coarse delay circuit 16. The adder 83 adds together the fractional delay data CDL the low order bits b₆ 1, b₇ 0 of the set delay amount and the fractional period data RD from the period generator 12. The adder output TD is d₅ 1 and d₆ 0 during the period 8T of the pulses A₁ and d₅ 0 and d₆ 0 during the period 9T. The carry output C₃ goes to 0 during the period 8T and 1 during the period 9T. Therefore, in the period 8T of the pulses A₁ the delayed pulse B₃ is applied as a pulse S₁₁ to the gate 66 via the gates 87 and 89. When the gate 66 is enabled by the pulse S₁₁, the reference clock pulse CK is produced as a pulse G. In the period 9T of the pulses A₁ the delayed pulse B₃ is fed via the gate 88 to the D flip flop 91, wherein it is delayed by the period T, thereafter being applied as the pulse S₁₁ to the gate 66 to enable it. Thus the pulse G is delayed for 5T and 6T alternately every other pulse A₁ and its period repeats 8T and 9T alternately. The pulses G are delayed by the output TD of the adder 83 in the fine delay circuit 18. In this instance, since the adder 83 outputs d₅ 1, d₆ 1 and d₅ 0, d₆ 0 alternately as mentioned previously, the pulses G are alternately delayed for 0.5T, so the period of the output pulses H of the fine delay circuit 18 is 8.5T. Incidentally, in the case where the set delay amount n i T is zero, that is, the bits b₁ to b₇ are all 0s , and the set period m k T is 8.5T, the output TD of the adder 83 repeats d₅ 0, d₆ 0 and d₅ 1, d₆ 0 alternately, the output pulses G of the unit delay circuit 85 are delayed T behind each pulse A₁ and the pulses G are alternately delayed by the fine delay circuit 18 for 0.5T, providing pulses H having a period of 8.5T, as indicated by TD , G and H in Fig. 13. It will be seen that the pulses H are delayed 4.5T behind the pulses H and are the pulses desired to obtain. That is to say, in order to utilize the fine delay circuit 18 for both period generation and delay setting purposes so that the operation of the period generator 11 in the prior art is performed by the period generator 12 and the fine delay circuit 18 and the delay of a preset amount is effected by the coarse delay circuit 16 and the fine delay circuit 18, the fractional period data RD and the fractional delay data CDL are added together by the adder 83, the fine delay circuit 18 is controlled by the adder output and a unit delay according to a carry of the addition is done by the unit delay circuit 85. The unit delay circuit in Figs. 10 and 12 can be formed using not only the flip flop 91 but also a delay element of the delay time T. That is, it is necessary only to connect a delay element 93 of the delay time T, in place of the flip flop 91, between the gate 88 and the OR gate 89 in Fig. 12. In addition, the gate 66 may be moved to the input side of the unit delay circuit 85 as depicted in Fig. 14. In this instance, therefore, by connecting the gate 66 between the output side of the coincidence detector 65 and input terminal E shown in Fig. 14, the gate 67, 68, 75 and the delay element 78 can be used as the unit delay circuit 85 provided that the gates 67 and 68 are controlled by the carry C₃ instead of b₅. Since the coarse delay circuit 16 is to delay the pulses A₁ in units of the reference clock period T, the operation of the counter 63 in Fig. 12 may also be performed by the counter 31 Fig. 3 in the period generator 12. For instance, as depicted in Fig. 15, the counter 31 Fig. 3 in the period generator 12 is formed by an up counter, which is cleared by the pulse A₁ from the period generator 12 in this example, by the output S₆ of the OR gate 28 for initialization. The count value D₁ of the counter 31 and coarse period data indicating mT in the period set in the period setting means 21 are compared by a coincidence detector 94, and when coincidence is detected between them, the output S₁ goes to the high level. In this way, the pulse A₁ is obtained. The count value D₁ of the up counter 31 is applied as well to the coincidence detector 65 of the coarse delay circuit 16, wherein it is compared with the coarse delay data CDH, and when coincidence is detected between them, the output B₃ is made high level. Thus the pulse B₃ is obtained which is delayed by nT in the set delay data relative to the pulse A₁. In short, the coarse delay circuit 16 needs only to create the pulse B₃ delayed by nT relative to the pulse A₁ as well as to delay the pulse A₁ from the period generator 12 by nT. While in the period generator 12 in Fig. 3 the detected output S₁ of the zero detector 38 is delayed by T upon each occurrence of the carry output C₁ from the accumulator 20 for the purpose of delaying the next pulse A₁ by one reference clock period T, it is also possible to serve the purpose by inhibiting the counter 31 from counting one of the reference clock pulses CK. This will be described with respect to the case of Fig. 15. As will be seen from the timing chart depicted in Fig. 4, it is necessary only to inhibit one of the reference clock pulses CK which are provided to the counter 31 in the period from the time when the carry output C₁ goes to the high level to the time when the output S₁ of the detector 38 goes to the high level next. This can be achieved in such a manner as follows The output S₁ of the coincidence detector 94 is supplied directly to the gate 26, the output of which is provided to the OR gate 28, the output S₆ of which is, in turn, delayed by twice the reference clock period T in a delay circuit 95. The delayed output and the carry output C₁ are ANDed by a gate 96, by the output of which an inhibit gate 97 connected in series with the clock input terminal of the counter 31 is controlled to enable. It will easily be understood that also in Fig. 3 a similar arrangement can be obtained by directly applying the output S₁ of the detector 38 to the gate 26 and by providing the delay circuit 95 and the gates 96 and 97. Furthermore, in the case of forming the counter 31 by an up counter and employing the coincidence detector 94 as shown in Fig. 15, it is also possible to adopt an arrangement wherein the delay circuit 95 and the gates 96 and 97 are omitted and the output S₁ of the coincidence detector 94 is applied to the gates 36 and 37, as depicted in Fig. 3. The counter 31 in Fig. 3 and the counter 63 in Fig. 12 are to detect the number of clock pulses corresponding to the value mT in the set period and the number of clock pulses corresponding to the value nT in the set delay amount, respectively. For detecting the preset numbers by these counters, it is possible to employ either a means for detecting a borrow output through use of a down counter or a means for detecting the carry output after presetting a complement of the maximum count value of the counter other than the means for detecting zero through use of a down counter and the means for detecting coincidence through use of an up counter as referred to previously. Also in the case of Fig. 15, the detection by the counter 31 can be effected by any of the above means. In such a case, it is necessary only to arrange the delay setting means 17 so that it provides the coarse delay data CDH in accordance with the particular means used. Each delay switching stage in the fine delay circuit 18, for instance, the delay switching stage made up of the gates 71, 72 and 76 and the delay element 79 in Fig. 9, needs only to output the input pulse after or without delaying it in response to the corresponding bit b₆ contained in the input fractional delay data CDL. Therefore, the gate 72 and the delay element 79 may also be exchanged, for example, as depicted in Fig. 16. Similarly the gate 37 and the flip flop 41 may be exchanged in Fig. 3 and the gate 88 and the flip flop 91 may be exchanged in Fig. 12. As described above, the timing generating device of the present invention calls for only one fine delay circuit, and hence is correspondingly small in the number of unstable elements used, high in stability and precision, as compared with the conventional timing generating device which employs two fine delay circuits as shown in Fig. 1. In addition, one of the two fine delay circuits is required to effect delay control of the period 2T or less. In contrast thereto, the device of the present invention needs only to perform delay control of the period T or less, and hence is small in the number of delay switching stages by that and is stable.