# Roller mill.

## Abstract
A roller mill according to this invention includes a table 2A adapted to be rotatably driven on a substantially vertical axis 10 . The table 2A is adapted to receive the material to be milled in a central area around the axis. The table has a substantially horizontal upper surface, and an annular groove 4A is formed in the upper surface radially outwardly from the central area. The groove 4A has a curved bottom surface. At least one roller 6A is provided having an axis of rotation 20 which is above the upper surface of the table and substantially intersects the table axis. The roller 6A extends into and rolls in the groove 4A and has an outer peripheral surface 18 which is curved in cross section. The mill when in use has the table 4A and the roller 6A rotated, and the material extends into a clearance space 16 formed between the peripheral surface of the roller and the bottom surface of the groove. The table has an annular overhang 24 on the upper surface thereof adjacent the outer periphery of the groove to throttle the movement of the material out of the clearance space 16 .

## Claims
1. A roller mill for crushing material, comprising a table adapted to be rotatably driven on a substantially vertical axis, the table being adapted to receive the material in a central area adjacent said axis, said table having a substantially horizontal upper surface and an annular groove formed in said upper surface radially out wardly from said central area, said groove having a curved bottom surface, at least one roller having an axis of rotation which is above said upper surface and which substan tially intersects said vertical axis, said roller extending into said groove and having an outer peripheral surface which is curved in cross section, said mill when in use having said table and said roller rotated and the material extending into a clearance space formed between said peripheral surface and said bottom surface, said table having an annular overhang means on said upper surface adjacent the outer periphery of said groove to throttle the radially outer position of said clearance space.

## Description
The present invention relates to a vertical roller mill for crushing or milling clinkers or blast furnace slag for use as cement material. Figure 1 of the accompanying drawings shows a prior art vertical roller mill, of the type disclosed in Japanese Patent Provisional Publication No.60 12151 laid open on January 22, 1985. In Figure 1, the mill includes a rotary table 2 having an annular groove 4 formed in its upper surface 3. The table is rotated on a substantially vertical axis, and the groove 4 is located adjacent the outer periphery 5 of the table. A plurality of circumferentially spaced rollers 6 only one shown are supported above the table and roll in the groove 4. Material 9 being milled is located in a clearance space 8 formed between the groove 4 and the rollers. The width of the space 8 is narrowed on the radially outward side of the groove to resist the outward flow therefrom of the material 9 being milled, in order to produce efficient milling etc. It is a general object of this invention to provide a vertical roller mill, which is improved in its capability to retain material being milled in the groove between the rotary table and the rollers for a relatively long time. A roller mill according to this invention includes a table adapted to be rotatably driven on a substantially vertical axis. The table is adapted to receive the material to be milled in a central area around the axis. The table has a substantially horiziontal upper surface, and an annular groove is formed in the upper surface radially outwardly from the central area. The groove has a curved bottom surface. At least one roller has an axis of rotation, which is above the upper surface of the table and substant ially intersects the table axis. The roller extends into the groove and has an outer peripheral surface which is curved in cross section. The mill when in use has the table and the roller rotated, and the material extends into a clearance space formed between the peripheral surface of the roller and the bottom surface of the groove. The table has an annular overhang in the upper surface adjacent the outer periphery of the groove to throttle the clearance space and restrain the material from leaving the groove. The invention will be better understood from the following description and the accompanying drawings, wherein In the drawings, corresponding parts are given similar reference numerals. With reference to the first embodiment shown in Figure 2, the vertical roller mill includes a rotary table 2a made of a wear resistant metal, which is supported on a base 7 and during operation is rotatably driven on a vertical axis 10. The table 2a preferably has an annular liner 12 secured to its upper surface adjacent the outer periphery. The liner 12 has an annular groove 4a formed in its upper surface. The groove 4a has a generally circular bottom when viewed in a cross sectional plane that includes the table axis 10 as shown in Figure 2. Material not shown in Figure 2 to be milled is fed to the center area of the table 2a around the axis 10, and it moves radially outwardly by centrifugal action, and the material enters the groove 4a. A plurality of rollers 6a are provided above the table 2a. Each roller 6a is journalled on the end of a support arm 14, that is supported at its outer end on the frame not shown of the mill so that the arm 14 may pivot in a vertical plane that includes the table axis 10, but the arm is prevented from moving out of this plane. The roller 6a has an outer peripheral surface 18 which is circular when viewed in a cross sectional plane including the rotational axis 20 of the roller. Each roller 6a and the associated arm 14 swing downwardly by gravity and conventional force or compression means not shown acting on the arm 14, and the roller 6a rides on the top of the material as the material moves radially outwardly through a narrow clearance space 16 between the roller peripheral surface 18 and the bottom of the groove 4a. The material is thereby compressed and crushed or milled between the roller and the groove. On the side of the clearance space 16 which is radially inward of the table 2a from a plane 22 that extends radially of the roller and is located axially centrally of the roller the clearance space 16 gradually narrows toward the outward direction. Thus, the material is able easily to enter the radially inward with respect to the table side of the clearance space because the space is widened at this side. As the material moves radially outward into the gradually narrowing clearance space, the material is effectively ground. On the radially outward side with respect to the table from the plane 22, the width of the clearance space 16 is substantially constant, thereby achieving final fine milling of the material. The table 2a further includes an annular overhang 24 fixed to its upper surface adjacent the outer perhiphery of the groove 4a. The overhang 24 has a radially inner side 26, which overhangs the outer edge of the groove and throttles the outward side of the clearance space 16 to effectively resist the outward flow or escape of the material from the clearance space. This maintains or holds the material in the clearance 16 on the outward side for a relatively long time until it is sufficiently and finely milled. The second embodiment shown in Figure 3 has a construction similar to Figure 2. In Figure 3, the roller 6b has a peripheral surface 18b which is substantially circular in cross section, the circle having a radius indicat ed by the arrow 28 and a center 30 of curvature. The center is located in the axially central, radial plane 22b of the roller 6b. The table liner 12b has an annular groove 4b formed in its upper surface. The groove 4b is substantially circular in cross section, the circle having a radius indicated by the arrow 32 and a center 34 of curvature. The center 34 is also located in the plane 22b, but is eccentric from the center 30 and is spaced toward the axis of the roller. A first clearance space 36 is formed between the roller 6b and the groove 4b on the side of the plane 22b, which is radially inward with respect to the table 2b. The clearance space 36 narrows in the radially outward direction of the table 2b. A second clearance space 38 is formed between the roller 6b and groove 4b on the radially outward side of the plane 22b, and it widens in the radially outward direction of the table 2b. The table liner 12b has an annular overhang 24b formed on its upper surface which overhangs the outer periphery of the groove 4b. The over hang 24b has a radially inner, conical side 26b, which overhangs the outer end of the second clearance 38 to effectively resist the outward flow or escape of the material therefrom. This configuration thus forms a bulged or enlarged portion 39 of the second clearance 38, which is throttled or narrowed in both directions. This bulged portion 39 retains a thick layer of the milled material, thereby improving the self milling of the material so as to allow final milling. The third embodiment shown in Figure 4 has a construction similar to Figure 3. In Figure 4, the roller 6c has a peripheral surface 18c which is circular in cross section, the circle having a radius 28c and a center 30c of curvature. The center 30c is located in the axially central, radial plane 22c of the roller. The table liner 12c has an annular groove 4c formed in its upper surface. The major portion of the groove 4c is circular in cross section, the circle having a radius 32c and a center 34c of curvature, in its major region except the outer peripheral region. The center 34c is also located in the plane 22c, but it is eccentric from the center 30c and is spaced away from the groove 4c. In the outer peripheral region, the groove 4c has a radius 40 and a center 42 of curvature in cross section. The radius 40 is smaller than the radius 28c of the roller 6c. The center 42 is located in the axially outer half of the roller. This forms a radially inner, annular surface 26c, which curves back toward the roller 6c and overhangs the outer clearance space 38c between the roller and groove 4c. In the fourth embodiment of Figures 5 and 6, the mill includes a rotary table 2d, which has an annular groove 4d formed in its upper surface. The table 2d carries a plurality of arcuate dams or overhangs 24d adjacent the outer periphery of the groove 4d. As shown in Figure 6, each dam 24d is slidably mounted on the upper surface of the table 2d and is radially slidably connected by a dovetail joint 44. The dam 24d is connected to one arm of a bell crank 46 which is supported pivotally by a pin 53 on the table 2d. The other arm of the crank 46 is connected by a rod 48 to one arm of another bell crank 50, which is also supported on the table 2d. The other arm of this crank 50 is connected by a rod 54 to a hydraulic or electric drive 52, which is mounted to the table 2d. The drive 52 is operable, through the bell cranks, to radially move each dam 24d radially of the table so as to change the amount of the overhang of the groove 4d.