# PROCESS FOR PRODUCING AN OPTICAL TRANSMISSION MEDIUM

## Claims
Verfahren zur Herstellung eines optischen Übertragungsmediums, umfassend Mischen und Lösen wenigstens eines thermoplastischen Polymeren A in einem Monomeren B oder in einer Mischung von zwei oder mehreren Monomeren einschließlich des Monomeren B , wobei das genannte Monomere B zur Bildung eines Polymeren in der Lage ist, das in dem Polymeren A löslich ist und einen Brechungsindex aufweist, der sich von demjenigen des Polymeren A unterscheidet Formen der erhaltenen Mischung zu einer geformten Substanz Verflüchtigen des Monomeren B von der Oberfläche der genannten geformten Substanz, um einen kontinuierlichen Gradienten in der Konzentration des Monomeren B zwischen dem Inneren und der Oberfläche des genannten Formgegenstandes auszubilden und Polymerisieren der unpolymerisierten Monomeren B während oder nach der Verflüchtigungsstufe.

## Description
The present invention relates to a process for producing a graded index optical transmission medium used for graded index fibers e.g. near parabolic fibers , converging lenses, photosensors and the like. Heretofore, there have been reported many graded index mediums made of glass such as described in the Japanese Patent Publication No. 47 816 1972. The glass mediums, however, have to unwillingly be manufactured in low productivity, high cost, and are commonly weak against the bending actions in the practical uses. In addition to the glass mediums, several plastic graded index mediums have been proposed, In particular, the synthetic resin optical transmission medium described in the Japanese Patent Publication No. 47 28059 1972 uses rather simple method for forming index distribution, and is very available for manufacturing. That is to say, the transmission medium as described in the Japanese Patent Publication No. 47 28059 1972 is given index distribution through the steps comprising admixing two or more polymers having different refractive indices and different solubilities against the specific solvent from each other, molding thus obtained mixture to form a rod or fiber, and dipping thus obtained rod or fiber in said specific solvent to elute a portion of the polymers in a different proportion from the proportion of mixing of the polymers. Thus produced graded index medium, however, has several drawbacks as follows, US A 3,999,834 describes light focussing type optical fibers which are formed from concentric circular sheath core composite fibers composed of a sheath forming polymer having a defined solubility parameter and a defined swelling parameter, which can protect the core, and a core polymer wherein a specific monomer is introduced through the sheath into the core polymer, after which said monomer is polymerized, whereby the defined variation of refractive index from the center of the core towards the periphery of the core is formed. It is the object of the present invention to provide a process for producing an optical transmission medium with a low transmission loss, a favorable index distribution, and superior in properties against bending actions, softness and processability, the process being suitable for mass production in which the optical transmission medium can be produced through a continuous operation. The present invention relates to a process for producing an optical transmission medium, comprising mixing and dissolving at least one thermoplastic polymer A in a monomer B or in a mixture of two or more monomers including the monomer B , said monomer B being able to form a polymer, which is soluble within the polymer A and which has a refractive index different from that of the polymer A molding the resulting mixture to a moulded substance volatilizing the monomer B from the surface of said moulded substance so as to form a continuous gradient in the concentration of the monomer B between the interior and the surface of said mould and polymerizing the unpolymerized monomers B during or after the volatilization step. The product of the process of the present invention is an optical transmission medium comprising a mixture of the number of N of polymers Pn, in which N is two or more, n 1, 2 ... N, the polymers having different refractive indices from each other, the proportions of mixing of the polymers Pn varying in the optical transmission medium from the interior toward the surface thereof so that the index distribution of the optical transmission medium is formed, and the relationship between the attenuations Ln dB m of the polymers Pn and the attenuation L wherein Wn are the respective proportions by weight of mixing of the polymers Pn to the whole of the mixture of the polymers Pn, and Wn is equal to one. Fig. 1 shows an outline of the apparatus used for the process of the invention for producing the optical transmission medium. Fig. 2 shows a schematic view of the apparatus for evaluating lens properties of the optical transmission medium as produced by the process of the present invention. With regard to the optical transmission medium as produced by the process in accordance with the present invention, the attenuation means a scale of the transparency of macromolecules described in, for example, page 264 of Testing Method and Evaluation of Macromolecular Materials edited by the Society of Polymer Science, Japan, published by Baifukan Co., Ltd. 1981 . When a light having an input intensity of I Said inequality I in connection with the optical transmission medium of the present invention may be expressed in a qualitative manner by the statement that no arithmetic mean rule comes into existence between Ln and L According to most of the above mentioned prior art graded index mediums, improvement in transparency by polymer blending cannot occur rather it may be considered that the transparency lowers. In the prior art, however, since a lens having a very short light path has been its objective, reduction in transparency by polymer blending has been nothing but neglected. Whereas, in the case where the light transmitting path is elongated as in the case of optical fiber, even a slight reduction in transparency due to polymer blending is not permitted rather, polymer blending should contrarily more improve the transparency i.e. the attenuation. Thus the superiority of the optical transmission medium as prepared by the process of the present invention can clearly be seen when the medium is used in an elongated transmission path. In order to produce the optical transmission medium which satisfies said inequality I , it is necessary to choose the polymers Pn mutually soluble with each other. Especially, it is preferred to select the combination of materials which can accomplish mutual dissolution in the degree of molecular dispersion. When the optical transmission medium satisfies said inequality I , it is not necessary at all to restrict the polymers Pn to transparent ones. If fine performances can be given in mechanical properties, heat resistance, solvent resistance, etc. of the medium, opaque crystalline polymers are preferably used. That is to say, at least one of the number of N of polymers Pn may be an opaque or crystalline polymer which may have an attenuation of 100 dB m or more. Even when the attenuation of the polymer Pn surpasses 100 dB m, it is able to obtain the optical transmission medium having a preferable attenuation of 30 dB m or less more preferably 10 dB m or less . In this case, the uniqueness of the merit of the present invention become clearer. In the present invention, there are no restrictions on the types of the materials to be used as the polymers Pn, the polymer A , the monomer B and the like. The materials may be selected from known polymers or monomers. Representative examples of the polymers Pn having an attenuation of 100 dB m or more to be advantageously used in the present invention include polyvinylidene fluoride and a copolymer containing as a chief monomeric unit vinylidene fluoride. Illustrative examples of such copolymer include copolymers of vinylidene fluoride with fluorine containing vinyl compounds such as tetrafluoroethylene, trifluoroethylene, hexafluoropropylene, vinyl fluoride, chlorotrifluoroethylene, perfluoroalkylvinyl ether, hexafluoroacetone, etc., methacrylic acid esters such as methyl methacrylate, butyl methacrylate, etc., vinyl acetate, etc. However, the comonomers are not limited to these examples. Among these copolymers, those which are most excellent in practical properties such as heat resistance, mechanical characteristics, processability, refractive index balance, etc. are copolymers of vinylidene fluoride with tetrafluoroethylene, trifluoroethylene or hexafluoroacetone. The content of vinylidene fluoride unit in the copolymer thereof with tetrafluoroethylene is preferred to be 60 95 by mole. The content of vinylidene fluoride in the copolymer thereof with trifluoroethylene is preferred to be at least 20 by mole. The content of vinylidene fluoride in the copolymer thereof with hexafluoroacetone is preferred to be at least 50 by mole. Among these copolymers, the copolymer of vinylidene fluoride and tetrafluoroethylene is especially preferred, for the reason of its superior processability and heat resistance. When polyvinylidene fluoride or the copolymer containing as a chief monomeric unit vinylidene fluoride or, in particular, the copolymer comprising 60 95 by mole of vinylidene fluoride unit and 40 5 by mole of tetrafluoroethylene is used as at least one of the polymers Pn which has an attenuation of 100 dB m or more in the present invention, it is preferred to use a polymer or polymers having an attenuation of 30 dB m or less in combination therewith. Preferable examples of such a low attenuation polymer include polymethyl methacrylate and a copolymer containing as a chief monomeric unit methyl methacrylate. Examples of comonomers in such copolymers containing as a chief monomeric unit methyl methacrylate include methacrylates such as ethyl methacrylate, propyl methacrylate, n butyl methacrylate, t butyl methacrylate, cyclohexyl methacrylate, phenyl methacrylate, benzyl methacrylate, 2,2,2 trifluoroethyl methacrylate, 2,2,3,3,3 pentafluoropropyl methacrylate, perfluoro tert butyl methacrylate, 1,1,1,3,3,3 hexafluoro isobutyl methacrylate, β hydroxyethyl methacrylate, glycidyl methacrylate, β methylglycidyl methacrylate, etc., acrylates such as methyl acrylate, ethyl acrylate, propyl acrylate, butyl acrylate, etc., methacrylic acid, acrylic acid, styrene, α methylstyrene, etc. However, the comonomers are not limited to these examples, but the copolymers may be those which further contain a small quantity of another kind of comonomer such as acrylonitrile, maleic anhydride, etc. The quantity of such comonomers other than methyl methacrylate is desired to be 50 by weight or less, preferably 30 by weight or less, more preferably 15 by weight or less based on the weight of the copolymer. Besides, polyethyl methacrylate, polymethyl acrylate, polyvinyl methyl ketone, etc. are also preferred. Since the mixture of the polymer P₁ comprising polyvinylidene fluoride or a copolymer comprising as a chief monomeric unit vinylidene fluoride and the polymer P₂ comprising polymethyl methacrylate or a copolymer comprising as a chief monomeric unit methyl methacrylate, has a superior mutual solubility, molecular dispersion is almost achieved, and in spite of the fact that polymers having considerably different refractive indexes are mixed, the resulting mixture is transparent in a mixing proportion within a considerably broad range. The range of the proportion of mixing in which transparency is achieved is 0 80 by weight, preferably 0 70 by weight of the polymer P₁ based on the weight of the mixture. If the quantity of the polymer P₁ exceeds 80 by weight, the vinylidene fluoride polymer readily crystallizes and becomes undesirably milk white color or opaque. Namely, it is able to constitute, in accordance with the present invention, the optical transmission medium in which the content of the polymer P₁ as a chief component in the mixture of the polymers P₁ and P₂ changes from the interior to the surface of the medium in the range of 0 to 80 by weight, preferably, 0 to 70 by weight, and the refractive index also changes accordingly. As the above mentioned copolymer containing as a chief monomeric unit methyl methacrylate, cross linked polymers which can prevent the vinylidene fluoride polymers from crystallization at the heat treatment thereof may preferably be used. The cross linked polymers containing as a chief monomeric unit methyl methacrylate usable as the polymer Pn may be prepared by various known polymerization methods, for example, a method in which methyl methacrylate is copolymerized or graft polymerized with a crosslinking monomer having two or more functional groups selected from vinyl group, acryloyl group, methacryloyl group and the like e.g. glycol dimethacrylate, diethyleneglycol dimethacrylate, methallyl methacrylate, trimethylolpropane trimethacrylate, divinyl benzene a method in which methyl methacrylate is copolymerized with a crosslinking monomer having a group active in a crosslinking reaction such as unsaturated polyester meth acrylate, epoxy meth acrylate, urethane meth acrylate, polyol meth acrylate a method in which a crosslinking reaction is carried out by use of a radiation, electron beam, etc. When methyl methacrylate is subjected to crosslinking reaction, comonomers other than crosslinking monomers may be used for the purpose of improving various properties such as heat resistance, mechanical properties of the optical transmission medium. Illustrative examples of such comonomers include methacrylates such as ethyl methacrylate, propyl methacrylate, n butyl methacrylate, tert butyl methacrylate, cyclohexyl methacrylate, phenyl methacrylate, benzyl methacrylate, 2,2,2 trifluoroethyl methacrylate, 2,2,3,3,3 pentafluoropropyl methacrylate, perfluoro tert butyl methacrylate, 1,1,1,3,3,3 hexafluoro isopropyl methacrylate, β hydroxyethy methacrylate, glycidyl methacrylate, β methylglycidyl methacrylate, acrylates such as methyl acrylate, ethyl acrylate, propyl acrylate, butyl acrylate, methacrylic acid, acrylic acid, styrene, α methylstyrene. However, the comonomers are not limited to these examples, but the copolymers may be those which further contain a small quantity of another kind of comonomer such as acrylonitrile, maleic anhydride, etc. The amount by weight of the crosslinking monomer or comonomer to be polymerized with methyl methacrylate should be equal to or less than that of methyl methacrylate. If not so, the resulting polymer will have bad mutual solubility with the vinylidene fluoride polymer. In the case where the optical transmission medium is formed in the shape of a fiber or rod, when the distance from the central axis of the fiber or rod toward the radius direction is r the refractive index of the fiber or rod at its central axis is n₀ the refractive index of the fiber or rod at the part of r is n and the positive constant is α, then the case where the index distribution corresponds nearly to the following equation is particularly preferred Further, as to the fibrous optical transmission medium of the index distribution type of the present invention nearly satisfying the equation 3 , the degree of variability of the average diameter of the fiber is preferred to fall within 2 or less, preferably 1 or less. When the optical transmission medium of the index distribution type of the present invention is a mixture of polymers which are mutually soluble with one another, the polymers are completely soluble with one another in the vicinity of room temperature, depending on the combination of the polymers so that the attenuation is small, but when the mixture is heated to its spinodal decomposition temperature or higher, there is a case where phase separation occurs to increase the attenuation. In such a case, the optical transmission medium is useful as a light sensor for temperature detection. Next, a preferable example of a process for producing the optical transmission medium of the present invention will be described. A mixture obtained by mixing and dissolving the polymer having a lower refractive index and a monomer for forming the polymer having a higher refractive index among the polymers Pn used in the present invention is extruded from a nozzle, followed by the monomers to afford a concentration distribution of the monomers therein from the interior toward the surface, and at the same time therewith or thereafter polymerizing the unpolymerized monomers, whereby it is possible to obtain the optical transmission medium of the present invention. Since an extremely transparency is required for the optical transmission medium of the present invention, it is difficult to attain such a transparency according to the process of the above prior art Japanese Patent Publication No. 47 28059 1972 wherein polymers are mixed with one another thus it is possible to attain the object of the present invention by completely and uniformly dissolving polymers in different kind monomers, followed by polymerizing the monomers. According to this production process, no chemical bonding occurs between polymers or between polymers and different kind monomers, in any of the mixing step, the volatilization step and the polymerization step. Further, a preferable example of a process for producing the optical transmission medium of the present invention will be described in more detail referring to an example wherein vinylidene fluoride tetrafluoroethylene copolymer and polymethyl methacrylate are used. Further, an example of the apparatus for producing the optical transmission medium of the present invention will be illustrated in Fig. 1 as an outline. A mixture of vinylidene tetrafluoroethylene copolymer, polymethyl methacrylate and methyl methacrylate monomer is fed into a cylinder 11, followed by pushing it out quantitatively by means of a piston 14 while heating it by means of a heater 13, blending the mixture homogeneously at a kneading part 12, and extruding the mixture from a nozzle 15 to obtain a strand fiber 16, leading this strand fiber 16 to a volatilization part 17 where methyl methacrylate monomer is volatilized from the surface of the fiber by means of an inert gas such as air, N₂ Particularly a process of carrying out spinning upwards and pulling up the fiber vertically is preferred in that strand unevenness of the fiber is reduced and the controlling width of the volatilization conditions is broadened. Further it is an effective means to add known photo initiator, promotor or sensitizer for promoting photo polymerization to the above mixture as the raw material and simultaneously use these. The above mixture becomes translucent or milk white at low temperatures since vinylidene fluoride tetrafluoroethylene copolymer crystallizes hence the storage temperature of the mixture is preferably 30 C or higher, more preferably 60 C or higher. Similarly, the temperature at the volatilizing part is also preferred to be high, that is, preferred to be in the range of 40 to 110 C. At temperatures lower than 40 C, vinylidene fluoride copolymers sometimes crystallize during the volatilization and the attenuation increases. At temperatures exceeding 110 C, methyl methacrylate bubbles hence such high temperatures are also undesirable. At that time, in order to enhance the storage stability of the above mixture and also in order to prevent the viscosity change i.e. the thermal polymerization at the time of molding the mixture into the form of fiber or the like, it is preferred to use a so far known polymerization inhibitor. The thus prepared mixture causes no thermal polymerization at temperatures of about 100 C, but in order to obtain a homogeneous optical transmission medium, it is necessary to knead the mixture sufficiently homogeneously. In the kneading operation, it is possible to employ a so far known kneading apparatus. Further, in order to obtain an optical transmission medium having a diameter of about 0.1 to 5 mm, the viscosity of the mixture at its extrusion temperature is particularly important, and is preferred to be in the viscosity range of 100 to 10,000 Pa.s 1,000 to 100,000 poises , preferably 500 to 5,000 Pa.s 5,000 to 50,000 poises . The viscosity adjustment may also be carried out by adjusting the molecular weight of polymethyl methacrylate, besides the concentration adjustment. Particularly those having an intrinsic viscosity η of 0.5 to 3.0 dl g as measured in methylethyl ketone at 25 C are preferred in that the viscosity adjustment is not only easily carried out, but also the storage stability and stringiness of the mixture are superior. As the active light source 18 capable of being used in the present process, carbon arc lamp, ultra high pressure mercury lamp, high pressure mercury arc lamp, low pressure mercury arc lamp, chemical lamp, xenon lamp, laser rays, etc. emitting a light having a wavelength of 150 to 600 nm may be employed. Further, in some cases, it does not matter if polymerization is carried out by irradiation of electron rays. Further, in order to complete the polymerization, or in order to make the quantity of the remaining monomer as small as possible, it is effective to carry out the photo irradiation at two stages or the irradiation together with thermal polymerization. In succession to the polymerization, the remaining monomer may be removed by drying with hot air, etc. The quantity of the remaining monomer in the optical transmission medium of the present invention is preferred to be as small as possible, and 5 by weight or less, preferably 3 by weight or less, more preferably 1.5 by weight or less. This can be achieved according to the above processes. The optical transmission medium in accordance with the present invention has different uses such as mediums for transmitting light signals, components of photosensor, arrays of lenses used in photocopier or facsimille, couplers of optical fibers, rod lenses used in light splitting devices and line sensors. The process in accordance with the present invention is very simple, efficient and achieve high productivity. The present invention will be described in more detail by the following Examples and Comparative Examples, in which parts means parts by weight. Evaluations of various properties were carried out according to the following methods A He Ne laser light flux having a wavelength of 633 nm was put in the surface of one end of a fiber or rod having both the surfaces thereof vertically polished and straightly arranged and having a length of ℓ₁ m , and put out of the surface of the other end thereof to read the light output I₁ by means of a photodiode. Next, the fiber or rod was shortly cut in length, leaving the input end surface behind, which was then polished. The resulting length was named ℓ₂ m . In the same manner as above, the resulting light output I₂ was read. The attenuation L was calculated according to the following equation Fig. 2 shows the apparatus as used for measuring lens properties. In Fig. 2, 101 is an optical bench, 102 is a tungsten lamp used as light source, 103 is a light converging lens, 104 is a stop, 105 is a glass plate on which a square lattice of 0.1 mm interval is formed by the fine processing of the chrome layer of the chrome plated glass, 106 is a sample holder, 107 is a Polaroid camera, and 108 is a sample subject to the evaluation. The graded index lens as prepared was cut into length of one fourth of the period of the ray as measured based on undulation of He Ne laser rays passing therethrough and polished at the end faces by a grinder so as to obtain flat faces parallel to each other and perpendicular to the major axis. As seen from Fig. 2, the sample 108 as prepared was set on the sample holder 106. After the stop 104 was adjusted so as to let the light from the source 101 pass through lens 103, stop 104 and the glass plate 105 and enter the whole face of the sample, the positions of the sample 109 and Polaroid camera 107 were adjusted so as to focus the light on the Polaroid camera. As a result, the square lattice image was obtained and the distortion thereof was observed. The index distribution was measured by known method using Interfaco interference microscope manufactured by Carl Zeiss. The diameter of the sample was measured in the length of 10 m by use of Non Contact Laser Fiber Diameter Measuring Apparatus M 551B manufactured by Anritsu Co., Ltd. The degree of variability of average diameter V Softness was evaluated by the number of times of breaking of fiber out of three times testing in the midst of the ten round windings around the mandrel having a diameter five times as large as that of the fiber. The evaluation was shown by the following marks. In a cylinder 1 of the apparatus as shown in Fig. 1 was fed a mixture comprising 20 parts of the copolymer comprising 80 by mole of vinylidene fluoride and 20 by mole of tetrafluoroethylene and having an attenuation of 200 dB m and a crystalline melting point of 130 C as measured by differential thermal analysis refractive index n The average diameter of thus obtained fiber was 1000 µm max. 1003 µm, min. 997 µm . The index distribution as measured by Interfaco interference microscope includes the index of 1.466 at the central axis and the index of 1.460 at the periphery of the fiber. The refractive index was continuously lowered from the central axis toward the periphery of the fiber. The positive constant α of the above mentioned equation 3 was 0.0164. The NMR analysis taught the distribution of the concentration of the copolymer of vinylidene fluoride and tetrafluoroethylene. The content of said copolymer was varied in the range of from 26.4 by weight at the central axis of the fiber to 33.2 by weight at the periphery of the fiber , and was 29.8 by weight on an average. The content of the residual methyl methacrylate monomer was 1.0 by weight in the whole of the fiber. As a result of the above mentioned measurement of lens properties, the fiber showed little distortion of the square lattice image. The attenuation as measured of the fiber was 8.0 dB m which was much less than the total of the attenuations of the respective polymers which was 60.3 dB m. The transparency of the fiber cut into 10 cm length rod was compared with 10 cm rods of a copolymer of vinylidene fluoride and polymethyl methacrylate. As a result of the visual observation, the rods of the fiber of the present invention and polymethyl methacrylate were transparent, but the rod of said copolymer was white and opaque. Moreover, the fiber exhibited good softness as shown in the below Table 1 in the above mentioned evaluation. The transmission loss of the fiber obtained was measured in accordance with the method as described in the Japanese Patent Application Open Laid No. 58 7602 1983 and using the light source of red LED having the central wavelength of 660 nm produced by Stanley Electric EBR 5507S . As a result, the transmission loss as measured was 6.8 dB m. Thus, it was ascertained that the fiber can be used for transmission of light signals within the range of 10 m or less. The graded index fibers were prepared in the same manner as in Example 1, with the exception that the amounts of the vinylidene fluoride copolymer, polymethylmethacrylate and methyl methacrylate were changed as shown in Table 1. The results of the above mentioned evaluations were shown in Table 1. The graded index fibers were prepared in the same manner as in Example 2, with the exception that the intrinsic viscosity η of polymethyl methacrylate and the temperature of the volatilization part were changed as shown in Table 2. The results of the above mentioned evaluations were shown in Table 2. The graded index fibers were prepared in the same manner as in Example 2, with the exception that the staying time of the fiber in the volatilization part or and the fiber diameter were changed as shown in Table 3. The results of the above mentioned evaluations were shown in Table 3. The graded index fibers were prepared in the same manner as in Example 2, with the exception that the content of tetrafluoroethylene in the copolymer as used was changed as shown in Table 4. The results of the above mentioned evaluations were shown in Table 4. The graded index fibers were prepared in the same manner as in Example 2, with the exception that the comonomer of vinylidene fluoride or its content was changed as shown in Table 5. The results of the above mentioned evaluations were shown in Table 5. The graded index fibers were prepared in the same manner as in Example 2, with the exception that the polymer and monomer as shown in Table 6 their content in the mixture were also shown in Table 6 were used instead of polymethyl methacrylate and methyl methacrylate. The mixture of 20 parts of the copolymer of vinylidene fluoride and tetrafluoroethylene as used in Example 1 and 80 parts of polymethyl methacrylate was prepared by plasticizing them at the temperature of 170 190 C and kneading them homogeneously by means of a roll. Thus obtained mixture were molded into a shape of a rod having the diameter of 5 mm by means of an extruder. The thus obtained rod was then dipped in a mixture of methylene chloride and acetone so as to elute polymethyl methacrylate in an amount more than that of the copolymer. After drying, thus treated white rod was heated at 170 C at one end thereof and stringed out therefrom to obtain a fiber having a diameter of about 1.0 mm. The refractive index of thus obtained fiber was distributed in the range of from 1.465 at the periphery to 1.470 at the central axis of the fiber, but the attenuation was 100 dB m so that the fiber could not be used as the optical transmission medium at all. In a cylinder 1 of the apparatus as shown in Fig. 1 was fed a mixture of 60 parts of the copolymer comprising 80 by weight of methyl methacrylate and 20 by weight of 2,2,2 trifluoroethyl methacrylate and having the attenuation of 2 dB m, η of 1.2 dl g n The thus placed mixture was heated at 80 C, passed through a kneader part and extruded from a nozzle having a diameter of 2.0 mm. Thus extruded fiber was then passed over eight minutes through the volatilization part in which nitrogen gas heated at 70 C was flown at the rate of 10 ℓ min and subsequently passed through the interior of cylindrically arranged six pieces of 500 W high pressure mercury lamps so as to irradiate the light over about five minutes followed by pulling up by nip rollers at the rate of 20 cm min. The average diameter of thus obtained fiber was 800 µm. The index distribution as measured by Interfaco interference microscope includes the index of 1.484 at the central axis and the index of 1.480 at the periphery of the fiber. The refractive index was continuously lowered from the central axis toward the periphery of the fiber. The rod as prepared by cutting thus obtained fiber into 10 mm length and polished the end face thereof could work as a convex lens. The content of the residual methyl methacrylate monomer was 1.0 by weight in the whole of the fiber. The 10 cm rod could not be used for the optical transmission for the reason of its great attenuation of 50 dB m or higher. In a cylinder 1 of the apparatus as shown in Fig. 1 was fed a mixture of 60 parts of the copolymer comprising 70 by weight of styrene and 30 by weight of methyl methacrylate n