# ULTRATHIN COPPER FOIL AND PROCESS FOR PRODUCING SUCH FOIL

## Abstract
A composite foil is provided which comprises an electrically conductive support layer treated to permit electrodeposition of a copper layer thereon, a first electrodeposited copper layer on the support layer of a thickness sufficient to form a matte sur face, a thin layer of release agent on the matte surface, and a second electrodeposited copper layer of a non self supporting thickness.

## Claims
1. A composite foil comprising

## Description
The present invention relates to composite foils which can be used in the manufacture of printed circuit elements and a method of making such composite foils. Printed circuits are generally manufactured from copper clad laminates by an etching process. The copper clad laminates are commonly formed from copper foil and an insulating substrate bound to the matte surface of the copper foil. The circuit pat tern is formed by removing a portion of the copper foil by etch ing. In the standard etching process, the copper surface is coated with a photoresist material. To ensure adhesion of the photoresist material to the exposed copper foil surface, the cop per surface is first cleaned and roughened by scrubbing or chemi cal treatment. The photoresist layer is then covered with a mask defining the desired circuitry, and exposed to light, causing that portion representing the desired circuitry pattern to devel op and harden. The undeveloped photoresist is washed away and the masked surface is then treated with etching solution to re move the unwanted, exposed portions of the copper. During the removal of the unwanted copper, the etching solu tion frequently attacks the mask protected circuitry which forms the desired wiring pattern. This problem, termed undercutting, is particularly troublesome where it is desired to produce a circuit having very fine lines. One solution to this problem that has been used commercially is to employ a composite foil composed of a very thin layer of copper foil on a temporary car rier. While these composite foils reduce the undercutting prob lem, they cause difficulties in adhering the photoresist material to the ultrathin copper foil surface which are not encountered with the use of thicker foils. These difficulties occur because while thicker copper foil surfaces can be scrubbed or chemically etched after lamination to clean the copper surface and increase the roughness of the copper surface thus providing a surface sufficiently rough for photoresist adhesion , ultrathin foils are too thin to be subjected to such roughening treatments. An example of an ultrathin foil is described in British Pat ent No. 1,458,260, entitled Thin Foil to Adam W. Wolski. The foil comprised an ultrathin copper layer supported by a temporary aluminum carier which was separated from the aluminum by an in termediate anodized layer of aluminum oxide. The composite foil produced from this process resulted in a copper clad laminate that had a very smooth exposed surface because that surface con forms to the smooth surface of the aluminum carrier, thus making photoresist adhesion difficult. Therefore, a need exists in the art for a composite foil which can be used to produce a laminate clad with an ultrathin copper foil surface sufficiently rough so that the photoresist material adheres to the copper foil surface. Accordingly, it is an object of the present invention to provide a composite foil comprising an ultrathin copper layer and a carrier therefore which may be laminated to a resinous sub strate to produce an ultrathin copper clad laminate with a rough ened exposed copper surface that provides good photoresist adhe sion. This and other objects and advantages of the present inven tion will become more apparent in connection with the ensuing de scription and appended claims. The present invention solves the problem described above by providing a novel composite foil comprising an electrically con ductive support layer treated to permit the electrodeposition of a copper layer thereon, a first electrodeposited copper layer formed on the support layer of a thickness sufficient to form a matte surface, a thin layer of release agent formed on said matte surface, and a second electrodeposited copper layer of a non self supporting thickness. The support layer, first copper layer, and release coating, hereinafter called the carrier layers , provide a carrier for the ultrathin copper foil, supporting the foil during handling and further processing and during the laminating process used to form the copper clad laminate. It also provides a release sur face which permits clean and easy separation, without tearing, after the laminate has been formed. The release coating or layer is formed of a material which is relatively resistant to attack by a copper acid plating elec trolyte and permits clean and easy separation of the carrier lay ers from the non self supporting copper layer. In a preferred embodiment, the release layer is chromium. The release layer is sufficiently thick to permit release of the carrier layers from the composite foil and sufficiently thin so that the surface of the release layer on which the second copper layer is electro deposited has a matte surface configuration similar to the sur face of the first copper layer upon which the release layer was deposited. The first electrodeposited copper layer is of a thickness sufficient to form a matte surface, approximately about 2 to about 5 microns. Since the surface of the the second electro deposited layer in contact with the release layer hereinafter release layer facing surface will conform to the surface char acteristics of the layer on which it is deposited, the release layer facing surface will have a matte surface. Accordingly, when the composite foil is laminated and the copper clad laminate has been separated from the carrier layers, the release layer facing surface of the second copper layer will be exposed and will have a matte surface sufficiently rough so that no addi tional treatment is neccessary for good photoresist adhesion. The present invention also provides a process for the manu facture of the composite foil comprising electrodepositing on a support layer, treated to permit electrodeposition of a copper layer thereon, a first layer of copper of a thickness sufficient to form a matte surface, coating the matte surface of the first copper layer with a thin layer of release agent, and electro depositing on the layer of release agent a second copper layer of a non self supporting thickness. The copper clad laminates of the present invention are pro duced by conventional means by superimposing the composite foil on a substrate of a resinous insulating material with the ultra thin copper layer in contact with the insulating substrate, and laminating the assembly under heat and pressure. During lamina tion, the carrier layer serves as a barrier to prevent penetra tion through the ultrathin layer by the resin of the substrate. As previously noted, the present invention provides a com posite foil comprising an electrically conductive support layer treated to permit electrodeposition of a copper layer thereon, two electrodeposited copper layers, and a thin layer of release agent intermediate to the two copper layers. In a preferred em bodiment, the invention provides a composite foil comprising an aluminum support layer, an electrochemically formed copper strike on the aluminum support layer, a first electrodeposited copper layer formed on the copper strike of a thickness sufficient to form a matte surface, a thin layer of release agent formed on the matte surface, and a second electrodeposited copper layer of a non self supporting thickness. In accordance with this inven tion, the surface of the second copper layer not in contact with the release layer hereinafter outer surface is laminated to an insulating substrate, the carrier layer is removed, and the resultant copper clad laminate produced has an ultrathin copper layer with a roughened surface to allow for good photoresist adhesion. The electrically conductive aluminum support layer should have a thickness of less than 200 microns, preferably from about 30 to about 40 microns, and must be treated to prevent the forma tion of oxides on the aluminum surface, which if formed, make the electrodeposition of a suitable copper layer thereon difficult, if not impossible. A number of treatments are well known in the art. One type of process is zincate immersion, of which there are a variety known in the art, such as that described in S. Wernick, The Surface Treatment and Finishing of Aluminum and Its Alloys , Robert Draper Ltd. 1964 pp. 624 625. In a preferred zincate immersion process, the support layer is subjected to a four step zincating process. The aluminum layer is cleaned and etched with a 5 hydrofluoric acid solution for about 60 seconds at room temperature. The cleaned and etched aluminum layer is then zincated at a temperature of about 90 to 100 F for approximately 30 seconds with the following solution 100g l sodium hydroxide, 40g l Rochelle salt, 40g l zinc sulfate, 30g l nickel sulfate, 5g l copper sulfate, and 4g l ferric nitrate. The zinc layer is then stripped with a 35 nitric acid solution at room temperature for about 10 seconds. A second zincate layer, identical to the first zincate layer, is formed thereon. An electrochemically formed copper strike may also be formed on the aluminum support layer to permit electrodeposition of the subsequent copper layer. An appropriate thickness for the copper strike is from about 1 microns to about 2 microns, resulting in an area weight from about 9 g m² to about 18 g m², preferably from about 1.4 to about 1.8 microns, with an area weight of about 13 g m² to about 16 g m². The following table sets forth exem plary conditions and the solution for use in forming the copper strike In a preferred embodiment, both zincate immersion and the formation of a copper strike are used to permit the elec trodeposition of the copper layer on the support layer. The sup port layer is first subjected to a zincate immersion process and a copper strike is formed in an alkaline bath on the zincated surface. The copper strike protects the zinc layer from being dissolved by the acidic high speed copper plating bath used to form the first electrodeposited copper layer. If no copper strike is present, the acidic bath will dissolve the zincate layer. The first electrodeposited copper layer, which is formed on the copper strike, must be of a thickness sufficient to form a matte surface. The first copper layer should have a thickness of at least about 2 microns and an area weight of about 18 g m². A thickness of greater than 5 microns with an area weight of about 45 g m² is the maximum which is needed. Preferably the layer should have a thickness of about 3 to about 4 microns, with an area weight of about 27 g m² to about 36 g m². Exemplary condi tions and the electrolyte for use in forming the first electro deposited copper layer are set forth below The second electrodeposited copper layer has a non self supporting thickness, and will have a thickness of less than 17 microns. It will generally range in thickness from about 2 to about 12 microns and have an area weight ranging from about 27 g m² to about 108 g m², preferably about 4.5 to about 5.5 microns, with an area weight of about 40 g m² to about 50 g m². Exemplary conditions and the electrolyte for use in forming the second electrodeposited copper layer are set forth below The release layer, located intermediate to the first and second electrodeposited copper layers may be any material which is sufficiently conductive and sufficiently uniform in its sur face characteristics to allow the electrodeposition of a continu ous second copper layer thereon and which allows the support layer, and the first copper layer to be mechanically stripped from a laminate without tearing the second ultrathin copper layer. A suitable release layer is described in U.S. Patent No. 3,998,601 entitled Thin Foil to Metals are preferred release agents, most preferably lead, nickel, chromium and silver. The release layer should have a thickness sufficient to permit release of the carrier layers from the composite foil and be sufficiently thin so that the surface of the release layer on which the second copper layer is elec trodeposited has the same matte surface configuration as the first copper layer. Thus, the release layer should have a thickness of approximately 0.5 to about 1.5 microns and an area weight of about 4.5 g m² to 13.5 g m², preferably about 0.8 microns to about 1.25 microns, with an area weight of about 5.8 g m² to about 9.0 g m². Chromate release layers may be formed electrolytically in aqueous electrolytes containing hexavalent chromium ions or sim ply by immersion in like solutions. Suitable electrolytic solu tions may be formed by the dissolution in water of chromium salts such as chromium trioxide, potassium dichromate, sodium dichromate, ammonium dichromate, and potassium chromate. The most commonly used compound is chromium trioxide which is also known as anhydrous chromic acid and which is available commer cially in flake form. Additives such as sulphuric acid or sulphates, hydrochloric acid or chlorides, nitric acid or ni trates, or acetates may optionally be added to the electrolyte. The following table sets forth exemplary conditions and the elec trolyte for the formation of a chromium release layer The outer surface of the second copper layer may be sub jected to any treatment known in the art to increase its bond strength when it is laminated to a substrate. The composite foil of the present invention may be laminated to a supporting substrate by any conventional procedure. In these procedures the foil is first superimposed on top of a res inous insulating substrate. The foil substrate assembly is then placed in a conventional laminating press and subjected to heat and pressure to form a laminate. After cooling, the carrier lay ers may be peeled off leaving a laminate clad with an ultrathin layer of copper with a roughened surface to provide good adhe sion. The laminate is suitable for the production of printed circuit elements. As will be apparent to those skilled in the art, the partic ular substrate used will vary depending upon the use for which the laminate is intended and the service conditions under which it will be used. Particularly appropriate substrates which adapt the laminate for use in forming printed circuits include non flexible supports such as Teflon impregnated fiberglass Teflon is the trademark of E.I. DuPont de Nemours Co. for polytetra fluoroethylene , Kel F impregnated fiberglass Kel F is a trademark of Minnesota Mining Mfg. Co. for certain fluorocarbon products including polymers of trifluorchloroethylene and cer tain copolymers , epoxy impregnated fiberglass and the like. Flexible substrates may also be used and may include polyimides such as those known under the designation Kapton and H Film both are manufactured by E.I.Dupont de Nemours Co. and are polyimide resins produced by condensing a pyromellitic anhydride with an aromatic diamine . After lamination and removal of the carrier layers, the ex posed copper foil surface is coated with photoresist material, a photographic negative of the circuit pattern is superimposed on the material, and the material is then exposed to ultraviolet light, which hardens the photoresist material. The following example further illustrates preferred opera tions within the scope of the present invention. An aluminum support layer is cleaned and etched in 5 hydrofluoric acid for 60 seconds at room temperature. The layer is then zincated to form a first zincate layer at a temperature of about 90 100 F for 30 seconds in the following solution 100g l sodium hydroxide, 40g l Rochelle salt, 40g l zinc sulfate, 30g l nickel sulfate, 5g l copper sulfate, and 4g l ferric nitrate. The zincate layer is stripped by immersion in 35 nitric acid for 10 seconds at room temperature. The support layer is zincated again under the same conditions as were used to form the first zincate layer. An electrochemically formed copper strike is formed on the zincated support layer at a temperature of 130 F, a current den sity of 35 ASF at a pH of about 5.5 6.0 by immersion in the fol lowing solution for 120 seconds 15g l Copper as pyrophosphate 60 gl oxalic acid A first copper layer is electrodeposited on the copper strike at a temperature of 100 F, a current density of 72 ASF by immersion in the following solution for 120 seconds 200g l Copper sulfate 300g l suphuric acid The release layer is formed on the first copper layer at a temperature of 70 F, a current density of 140 ASF by immersion in the following solution for 120 seconds 250g l chromium trioxide 2.5g l sulphuric acid The second copper layer is formed on the release layer by immersion in the following solution for 180 seconds, at a temper ature of 100 F and a current density of 72 ASF 200g l copper sulfate 30g l sulphuric acid The invention may be embodied in other specific forms with out departing from the spirit or essential characteristics there of. The present embodiments are therefore to be considered in all respects as illustrative and not restrictive, the scope of the invention being indicated by the appended claims rather than by the foregoing description, all changes which come within the meaning and range of equivalency of the claims are therefore in tended to be embraced therein.