# PURIFICATION OF BLOOD CLOTTING FACTORS AND OTHER BLOOD PROTEINS ON NON CARBOHYDRATE SULFATED MATRICES

## Claims
Sulfatiertes, synthetisches, nicht carbohydratiertes Affinitätschromatographiegelmatrix Adsorbierungsmittel, umfassend ein sulfatierbares Polymer, ausgewählt aus a einer synthetischen organischen Gelmatrix, hergestellt durch Polymerisation mindestens eines polymerisierbaren organischen Monomers, und aus b Kieselgelteilchen, wobei das genannte sulfatierbare Polymer mit einem Sulfatiermittel behandelt worden ist, um eine Vielzahl von an das Polymerrückgrat gebundenen Sulfatgruppen bereitzustellen.

## Description
Andersson Menache Aronson The sulfated matrices used to date all have been based on the use of carbohydrate as the backbone. Although such carbohydrate matrices has been useful especially in laboratory scale separations, it has become evident that, for large scale production work, gels having greater strength and flow capacity and resistance to microbial attack would be desirable. The sulfated synthetic gel matrix adsorbing agent may be any organic polymeric material that is sulfatable and this is useful in affinity chromatographic separation operations. Examples of suitable synthetic gel matrices include polyhydroxylated acrylates and methoacrylates, silica particles, and polyvinylbenzene wherein the hydroxyl groups or benzene moiety can be sulfated by reaction of the hydroxyl groups or benzene moiety with a suitable sulfating agent such as, for example, sulfonyl chloride, chlorosulfonic acid and the like. Preferably, the sulfated synthetic gel matrix according to this invention comprises a sulfated synthetic polyhydroxylated acrylate of methacrylate or a polyhydroxy silica particle. An especially useful sulfated polyhydroxylated acrylate gel matrix is that derived from copolymerization of the monomer, N acryloyl 2 amino 2 hydroxymethyl 1,3 propane diol, which is commercially available under the trademark TRISACRYL Reactifs IBF, France . An especially useful sulfated polyhydroxy silica particle material is that derived from sulfation of the polyhydroxy silica material commercially available under the trademark NuGel P NP Separation Industries, Metachem, New Jersey, U.S.A. . Any conventional procedure for sulfating an organic hydroxyl group or aromatic i.e. benzene nucleus may be used to sulfate the synthetic gel matrix. A convenient sulfation procedure useful to sulfate tile TRISACRYL and NuGel matrices mentioned above is a modification of the method reported by Miletich Among the blood clotting factors and other blood proteins which may be isolated and purified according to the process of this invention by using the sulfated, synthetic, non carbohydrate gel matrix of the invention are factor IX, factor X, factor II, factor VII, F. VIII, protein C, protein S, prothrombin, tissue plasminogen activator TPA and the like. The blood coagulating, or clotting, factors and other proteins thus obtained, whether from plasma or tissue culture fluids using biotechnology, can be formulated into pharmaceutical preparations for therapeutic use. The pharmaceutical preparations may be treated by known means to render them free of infectious microorganisms such as bacteria and viruses and the like, including hepatitis B virus retroviruses and the AIDS causing agents ARV, HTLV III, and LAV agents . Such treatments include sterile filtration, heat treatment in the wet or dry state, chemical treatment, ultraviolet irradiation, and treatment with colloidal silica. The following examples illustrate but a few embodiments of the present invention and are not to be construed as limiting in scope. All parts and percentages are by weight and all temperatures are in degrees Celsius unless otherwise indicated. Trisacryl is a synthetic, non carbohydrate gel matrix prepared by the copolymerization of the monomer N acryloyl 2 amino 2 hydroxymethyl 1,3 propane diol. Trisacryl GF 2000 is manufactured by Reactifs IBF France and was obtained as an aqueous suspension. 1200 ml of suspended Trisacryl GF 2000 was dehydrated on a sintered glass funnel by sequential washes of distilled water 5 x 1200 ml , methanol 5 x 1200 ml and acetone 5 x 1200 ml . The acetone containing cake was spread on an aluminum foil surface and heated with an incandescent lamp in a fume hood until the powder was thoroughly dried 14 hours . The yield of dry Trisacryl powder from this treatment was 321 grams. The sulfation reaction was carried out by a modification of the method previously described for dextran beads by Miletich et al Analytical Biochemistry, 105, 304 310, 1980 . The trisacryl powder was added with stirring to a solution of chlorosulfonic acid in pyridine obtained by the dropwise addition of 428 mls of acid to 2.14 liters of pyridine in a dry ice ethanol bath. The solution was heated to 70 degrees C to completely dissolve the pyridinium before addition of the trisacryl powder. Once added the suspension was stirred until the powder had absorbed all of the liquid. The reaction mixture was maintained at 70 C for 2 hours and then at 50 C for 16 hours. The wet trisacryl cake was transferred to scintered glass funnels on vacuum flasks attached to a water aspirator. Remaining pyridine solution was collected and combined with the first wash effluents for disposal. The gel was washed with a total of 50 liters of 2M NaCl adjusted to pH 10. The gel was then further washed with 50 liters of distilled water at pH 10. The final weight of the washed gel was 1580 grams. The sulfated trisacryl gel was equilibrated before use in 10 volumes of a buffer consisting of 0.05 M sodium citrate pH 6.5 and 0.10 M sodium chloride. The equilibrated gel was then packed in the desired chromatographic column. Sulfation of polyhydroxy silica NuGel P NP obtained from Separation Industries, Metuchen, NJ was carried out in a similar fashion to that described for Trisacryl in Example 1 above. A quantity of dry glass beads 10 grams was added to a solution which had been prepared by the addition of 12.5 ml chlorosulfonic acid to 65 ml of pyridine as described in Example 1. The suspension was heated at 70 C for 16 hours after which the pyridine solution was removed by filtration and the glass beads rapidly washed with 50 volumes of 2 M NaCl solution at pH 10. The glass beads were then washed with 50 volumes of distilled water. Sulfation of the material could be readily confirmed by a modification of the colorimetric method described by Smith et al P.K. Smith, A. K. Mallia and G. T. Hermanson, Anal. Biochem. 109, 466 473, 1980 . The ability of the sulfated polyhyroxysilica gel to adsorb coagulation factors IX and X was tested. To 10 ml aliquots of a solution of redissolved As is evident from the data in the Table, the supernatant of the adsorption with the sulfated gel contains considerably less of both F. IX and F. X activity than the starting PTC solution. Some activation of F. IX is apparent after contact with the non sulfated material. Nevertheless, the data confirm that the sulfated polyhydroxysilica gel possesses the ability data confirm that the sulfated polyhydroxysilica gel possesses the ability to adsorb coagulation factors in apparent contrast to the non sulfated form. Protein C and Factor X were poorly resolved and eluted early in the gradient at a sodium chloride concentration of approximately 0.15 0.3 M. Factor IX was observed to elute later in the gradient at approximately 0.4 M NaCl although there was some overlap with F. X. The Factor IX containing regions of the elution of similar column runs were pooled and dialyzed vs. 0.015 M sodium citrate containing 0.12 M NaCl. After concentration and sterile filtration, a partially purified F. IX preparation was obtained for animal studies with the following characteristics A concentrate containing vitamin K dependent clotting factors was obtained by contacting Effluent I plasma with DEAE Sephadex and eluting the adsorbed gel as follows. After removal of the spent Effluent I, the DEAE gel was sequentially washed with 1 0.2 M sodium bicarbonate, 2 0.3 M sodium bicarbonate, and 3 0.2 M sodium chloride containing 0.01 M sodium citrate, pH 6.5. The Factor IX and other vitamin K dependent factors were then eluted from the DEAE gel with a buffer containing 0.055 M NaCl and 0.01 M sodium citrate, pH 6.5. The eluate was diafiltered against six volume exchanges of 0.05 M sodium citrate containing 0.1 M NaCl, pH 6.5. 73 L of eluate were obtained and aliquots were frozen for subsequent chromatographic studies. The content of clotting factors in the dialyzed eluate expressed as total units is given in Table 2. For the purpose of determining maximum flow characteristics of the sulfated trisacryl gel, a column of the following dimensions was constructed height 5 cm, diameter 25 cm. 8.7 liters of the DEAE elute described above was treated with Aerosil 380 at 0.25 w v at 5 C for 60 minutes. The insoluble Aerosil was removed by filtration and the clarified eluate applied to the sulfated trisacryl column at 24 liters hour. Flow rates of up to 60 liters per hour were obtained with this column configuration without visible deformation of gel or marked loss of column performance . The elution profile of the column is shown in Figure 2. After application of the clarified DEAE elute, the column was washed with 0.1 M NaCl, 0.05 M sodium citrate, pH 6.5. Separate step elutions were then carried out at 0.275 M NaCl and 0.55 M NaCl respectively for differential elution of clotting factors. Both of the latter elution steps included 0.05 M sodium citrate, pH 6.5. Table 3 describes the presence of various clotting factors in each purification step. While the separations obtained in this example are not optimum, this chromatography is illustrative of the fact that resolution of vitamin K dependent factors is possible at very high flow rates. Of particular note is the observation that Factor II prothrombin elutes in the unbound eluate and is not detectable in later elution steps. This was confirmed in elute and is not detectable in later elution steps. This was confirmed in similar chromatographic runs using specific F. II clotting assays. Protein C antigen is observed to co chromatograph with F. X. The recovery of F. X and F. IX activities in the various elution steps is in good agreement with the total amounts of respective activities applied to the column. To a column of sulfated trisacryl with the dimensions described in Example 1 was applied 5 liters of a solution of DEAE eluate prepared as described in Example 2. No Aerosil adsorption of this solution was carried out. Rather the sodium chloride concentration of the applied DEAE eluate was adjusted to 0.3 M prior to application. The column was also pre equilibrated in 0.3 M NaCl, 0.05 M sodium citrate, pH 6.5. After application of the sample, the column was washed with equilibration buffer to reduce the A280 of the column eluate to 0.2. The Factor IX was then eluted in a single step with a buffer containing 0.55 M NaCl. The recoveries of Factors IX and X are given in Table 4. This example demonstrates that it is possible to effectively remove F. X from the final F. IX preparation as eluted from the sulfated trisacryl. Since Factor X is, in our experience, the most troublesome and most likely contaminant from among the other vitamin K dependent factors, it follows that the levels of other clotting factors such as F. II are also likely to be very low in the F. IX peak described here. Indeed, in other similar chromatographies, prothrombin was found to be undetectable in F. IX peaks.