# Apparatus and process for measuring gamma radiation from a radioactive waste container.

## Abstract
Device for measuring gamma radiation emitted from a container holding radioactive waste 19 . The device compris es shielding 16 with a plurality of openings 18 , each containing a detector 20 that measures the radiation from a portion of the container. Simultaneous output signals are obtained from the detectors 20 and combined to obtain a representative gamma fluence for the total portion of the container measured. The container is then rotated to measure around the entire container and yield further signals. These signals are combined to obtain a total gamma radiation fluence from which the contents of the container can be determined.

## Claims
1. A device for measuring gamma radiation emitted from a container holding radioactive waste, charac terized in that said device comprises radiation shielding means having a plurality of openings therein, said openings each admitting gamma radiation from a portion of the container a plurality of detection means located within said shielding means proximate said respective shielding means openings and signal transmission means for conveying the output signal of said detection means to a signal processor.

## Description
This invention relates to the measurement of gamma radiation from radioactive waste and the character ization of the waste by such measurements. Radioactive waste is generated by a variety of sources such as hospitals, laboratories, military activi ties, and nuclear power plants. In certain cases these wastes can be packed into 55 gallon drums and shipped to disposal facilities where the drums are processed and then buried in prepared burial sites. The waste disposal facility generally includes a characterization station that has radiation detectors for verifying that the contents of any containers received conform to the shipping manifest and include only materials authorized for such disposal. The radiation detectors not only measure the quantity of the radiation emanating from the waste in the containers, but also determine the distri bution of the radiation energy spectrum of the waste to independently analyze the waste compositions and verify the acceptability of the waste sent for disposal. Gamma rays are produced in nuclear transforma tions and consist of photons each with an energy equal to Planck s constant times the frequency associated with the wave nature of the radiation. The emission of gamma rays is a mechanism by which the energy of excitation of a nucleus is removed. Such excited states accompany the decay of radioisotopes and result from induced nuclear transmutations. The gamma rays accompanying a particular type of nuclear reaction are composed of photons with either a single energy or a group of discrete energies. Typical energies of gamma rays range from a few keV to several MeV. By measuring two properties of this gamma radia tion fluence, it is possible to determine the type and quantity of radioactive waste present in a container. Photons comprising the gamma radiation fluence are detected and then, by conveying the detection signal to a device such as a multichannel spectrum analyzer, it is possible to determine both the energy of the detected photons and the quantity of the photons in each narrow segment of the energy spectrum. Since each type of radioactive isotope has its specific and unique signature of decay radiation, it is possible to analyze the output of a multichannel spectrum analyzer to determine the quantity and types of radioactive materials present in a waste container. Current gamma radiation measurements at waste disposal facilities are made by a device such as that shown in Figure 1, such as that made by Nuclear Data Inc. using a detector such as that made by Princeton Gamma Tech., Inc. Here, a gamma detection device 10 measures the gamma radiation from a segment of drum 12. As shown in Figure 1, the measurement is being made of the topmost segment of the drum. To obtain a uniform 360 degree profile of this segment, the drum is rotated by table 14, accomplishing approximately 15 revolutions in 1.5 minutes. This process is repeated for an additional 2 to 5 segments of the drum by elevating table 14, raising the drum and placing different segments in front of detector 10. This process generally takes approximately 12 minutes for a container measured in 6 segments. What is desired, especially in currently designed waste disposal facilities that attempt to achieve a high throughput of waste disposal containers, is a gamma radiation detection method that is fast, relatively inex pensive, and does not require close human contact in order to keep human radiation exposure to a minimum. Accordingly, the present invention resides in a device for measuring gamma radiation emitted from a con tainer holding radioactive waste, characterized in that said device comprises radiation shielding means having a plurality of openings therein, said openings each admitting gamma radiation from a portion of the container a plurali ty of detection means located within said shielding means proximate said respective shielding means openings and signal transmission means for conveying the output signal of said detection means to a signal processor. The invention also includes a method for obtain ing the total gamma radiation fluence from a container holding radioactive waste, characterized in that detecting gamma radiation from the container by making a plurality of simultaneous gamma radiation measurements of the radiation emitted from a portion of the container along a first path yielding a like number of output signals combining said output signals to obtain a representative gamma fluence for said first path along which said measurements were made detecting gamma radiation from the container by further pluralities of simultaneous gamma radiation measurements yielding output signals which are combined to obtain a representative gamma fluence for each respective plurality of simultaneous measurements, said further plurality of simultaneous gamma radiation measurements taken along a second path substantially orthogonal to the first path and combining said plurality of fluences representative of the plurality of simultaneous measurements to obtain a total gamma radiation fluence for the entire container. A gamma radiation detection apparatus and process is provided that allows a rapid, relatively inexpensive method for measuring gamma fluence from a waste disposal container while keeping human exposure to a minimum. In order that the invention can be more clearly understood, a convenient embodiment thereof will now be described, by way of example, with reference to the accom panying drawings in which Referring to Figure 2, a device is shown for measuring gamma radiation that is emitted from a container holding radioactive waste. Shielding means 16, such as lead shielding, contains a plurality of openings 18 which admit gamma radiation from a portion of the container holding radioactive waste 19. A plurality of detection means 20 are located within the shielding means 16 proxi mate the respective openings 18. Referring to Figure 3, the invention is shown in section without the lead shielding and in more detail. The plurality of detection means 20 is shown to comprise solid state gamma radiation detectors 22 such as germanium lithium detectors, a preamplification circuit 24 electri cally connected to said detector, and an evacuated enclosure 26 containing the plurality of solid state detectors and preamplification circuits. Each solid state gamma radiation detector has an individual preamplification circuit in order to minimize noise and losses between detectors and to allow averaging of the output of the detectors. The preamplified detector output is conveyed to a signal processor, not shown, by transmitting means such as cable 28. In order to further reduce detector noise and increase resolution between different gamma photon ener gies, detectors are kept cryogenically cold by contact with a thermally conductive rod 30 made, for example, of copper which is immersed in a cold material such as liquid nitro gen 32. Immersion in liquid nitrogen would maintain the copper rod at a temperature of about minus 196 C. A total gamma radiation fluence from a container holding radioactive waste is obtained as follows A portion of the gamma radiation from a container such as a 55 gallon cylindrical container 19 is measured by making a plurality of simultaneous gamma radiation measure ments, such as by detectors 20, of the radiation emitted from a portion of the container along a first path such as line segment 34 defined by the plurality of detectors 20 that is parallel to the axis 36 of the cylindrical contain er. The plurality of simultaneous gamma radiation measure ments yields a like number of output signals which are combined to obtain a representative gamma fluence for the first path 34 along which the measurements were made. Gamma radiation from the container is detected by further pluralities of simultaneous gamma radiation mea surements which also yield output signals that are combined to obtain a representative gamma fluence for each respec tive plurality of simultaneous measurements. These further plurality of simultaneous gamma radiation measurements are taken along a second path which is substantially orthogonal to the first path. In the present example the detectors 20 scan around the circumference of said cylindrical container 19 by rotating the container about its axis 36. Finally, these plurality of fluences representa tive of the plurality of simultaneous measurements are combined to obtain a total gamma radiation fluence for the entire container. This total gamma fluence contains both the energy of the photons and the quantity of photons at each energy and allows calculation of the type and quantity of radioactive material held by the container. The time needed to obtain a total gamma fluence is about 1.5 minutes using this method of simultaneous measurements. This information is used to confirm the accuracy of the shipping manifest, determine whether the material within the container is of the type appropriate for such burial, and further calculate the optimal packing arrangement of the waste disposal containers to reduce the overall radiation exposure to the environment.