# USE OF CARBOXYLIC AZETIDINE DERIVATIVES FOR REDUCING BLOOD CHOLESTEROL LEVELS

## Abstract
Compound for use in a method for treatment of the human or animal body by therapy, characterised in that the compound is a carboxy azetidine derivative of the general formula I or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt, ester, amide, alkylamide, hydrazide or alkylhydrazide thereof Therapeutic compositions containing such compounds are also described as are packs containing such compositions together with instructions for use in a method of treatment by therapy.

## Claims
1. Compound for use in a method for treatment of the human or animal body by therapy, characterised in that the compound is a carboxy azetidine derivative of the general formula I or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt, ester, amide, alkylamide, hydrazide or alkylhydrazide thereof in which X represents one of the groups CH₂, CHR or CR₂ Y represents one of the groups CHR, CR₂ or CH.CO₂H and Z represents one of the groups CH₂, CHR, CR₂ or CH.CO₂H the or each R independently represents an alkyl, alkenyl or cycloalkyl group or an aryl or aralkyl group optionally substituted on the aryl nucleus by one or more of the same or different substituents selected from halogen atoms, alkyl groups and alkoxy groups and one but only one of Y and Z must represent a CH.CO₂H group.

## Description
The present invention relates to the therapeutic use of certain carboxylic azetidine derivatives, in particular their use in reducing the level of cholesterol in blood. European Patent number 0029265 describes the production of plants in which male sterility has been brought about by treatment with certain carboxy azetidine derivatives. It has now been unexpectedly found that this type of compound also exerts a therapeutic effect in mammals, in particular by reducing the level of cholesterol in blood. Cardiovascular diseases, for example ischemic heart diseases, atherosclerosis and hypertension are amongst the more commonly occurring causes of death. These are often caused by insufficient blood flow resulting from atherosclerosis, which is generally associated with elevated levels of blood serum cholesterol. Compounds which reduce the cholesterol level in blood therefore offer a valuable therapeutic tool in reducing the risk of cardiovascular disease. The present invention therefore provides a compound for use in a method for treatment of the human or animal body by therapy, particularly by reducing blood cholesterol levels, characterised in that the compound is a carboxy azetidine derivative of the general formula I or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt, ester, amide, alkylamide, hydrazide or alkylhydrazide thereof Preferably the or each R independently represents an alkyl or alkenyl group having up to 6, especially up to 4, carbon atoms, a cycloalkyl group having from 3 to 6 carbon atoms, or a phenyl or benzyl group optionally substituted by one or more, preferably one or two, of the same or different substituents selected from chlorine, fluorine or bromine atoms, alkyl groups having from 1 to 4 carbon atoms and alkoxy groups having 1 to 4 carbon atoms. More preferably the or each R independently represents a methyl or ethyl group or a phenyl group optionally substituted by one or two substituents selected from fluorine and chlorine atoms and methyl and methoxy groups. Preferably X represents CH₂, Y represents CHR or CH.CO₂H and Z represents CH₂ or CH.CO₂H, one of Y and Z being CH.CO₂H. The azetidine derivative may for example be the free acid of the general formula I a hydrohalide or an alkali metal salt thereof the amide or hydrazide therof in which the amide or hydrazide group may be substituted by one or two alkyl, preferably C 1 4 alkyl, especially methyl, groups an alkyl, alkenyl or aralkyl ester, preferably an alkyl or alkenyl ester having up to 10, especially up to 7, carbon atoms in the alkyl or alkenyl group or a hydrohalide of such an amide, hydrazide or ester. Preferably the azetidine derivative is the free acid of formula I, a hydrohalide or an alkali metal salt thereof, the hydrazide thereof, a C 1 10 alkyl ester thereof or a hydrohalide of said hydrazide or ester. Especially preferred is the free acid of formula I or a C 1 4 alkyl ester, for example the methyl ester, thereof, or a hydrohalide of said acid or ester. Especially preferred azetidine derivatives are 3 carboxyazetidine, its methyl ester hydrochloride, and 2 carboxy 3 methyl azetidine. The azetidine derivative may exist in the form of isomers depending on the meaning of the group X, Y and Z. For example, 2 carboxy 3 methylazetidine exists as geometric isomers depending on the relative positions of the carboxy and the methyl group, and in addition, for each of these geometric isomers, optical isomers exist. As is usual in processes involving biological systems, some isomers may be more therapeutically active than others. Administration of the azetidine compounds for therapeutic use can be via any of the accepted modes of administration for therapeutic agents. These methods include oral, parenteral, transdermal, subcutaneous and other systemic modes. In order to facilitate administration, the azetidine compounds are suitably formulated in accordance with standard pharmaceutical practice as therapeutic compositions. Accordingly, the invention includes also a therapeutic composition which comprises a carboxy azetidine derivative of the general formula I as defined above in association with a carrier in a pharmaceutically acceptable level of purity. When the intended route of adminsitration is parenteral, the therapeutic composition should, of course, be in a sterile form. Depending on the intended mode, the compositions may be in the form of solid, semi solid or liquid dosage forms, such as, for example, tablets, pessaries, suppositories, pills, capsules, powders, liquids, suspensions, or the like, preferably in unit dosage forms suitable for single administration of precise dosages. The compositions, whether or not in unit dosage form, can conveniently be in the form of a pack which comprises such a composition, together with instructions for use in a method of treatment by therapy. The compositions will include a conventional pharmaceutical excipient and an active compound of formula I or the pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof and, in addition, may include other medicinal agents, pharmaceutical agents, carriers adjuvants, diluents, etc. For solid compositions, conventional non toxic solid include, for example, pharmaceutical grades of mannitol, lactose, starch, magnesium stearate, sodium saccharin, talcum, cellulose, glucose, sucrose, magnesium carbonate, and the like may be used. The active compound as defined above may be formulated as suppositories using, for example, polyalkylene glycols, for example, propylene glycol, as the carrier. Liquid pharmaceutically administerable compositions can, for example, be prepared by dissolving, dispersing, etc. an active compound as defined above and optional pharmaceutical adjuvants in an excipient, such as, for example, water, saline, aqueous dextrose, glycerol, ethanol, and the like, thereby forming a solution or suspension. If desired, the pharmaceutical composition to be administered may also contain minor amounts of nontoxic auxiliary substances such as wetting agents, pH buffering agents and the like, for example, sodium acetate, sodium lauryl sulphate, sorbitan monolaurate, triethanolamine sodium acetate, triethanolamine oleate, etc. Actual methods of preparing such dosage forms are known, or will be apparent, to those skilled in this art for example, see Remington s Pharmaceutical Sciences, Mack Publishing Company, Easton, Pa., 15th Edition, 1975. The composition or formulation to be administered will, in any event, contain as quantity of the active compound s , a thereapeutically effective amount, i.e. in an amount effective to achieve cholesterol reduction in the subject being treated. For oral administration, a pharmaceutically acceptable non toxic composition is formed by the incorporation of any of the normally employed excipients, such as, for example pharmaceutical grades of mannitol, lactose, starch, magnesium stearate, sodium saccharin, talcum, cellulose, glucose, sucrose, magnesium, carbonate, and the like. Such compositions take the form of solutions, suspensions, tablets, pills, capsules, powders, sustained release formulations and the like. Such compositions may contain 10 95 active ingredient, preferably 1 70 . Parenteral administration is generally characterized by injection, either subcutaneously, intramuscularly or intravenously. Injectables can be prepared in conventional forms, either as liquid solutions or suspensions, solid forms suitable for solution or suspension in liquid prior to injection, or as emulsions. Suitable excipients are, for example, water, saline, dextrose, glycerol, ethanol or the like. In addition, if desired, the pharmaceutical compositions to be administered may also contain minor amounts of non toxic auxiliary substances such as wetting or emulsifying agents, pH buffering agents and the like, such as for example, sodium acetate, sorbitan monolaurate, triethanolamine oleate, etc. A more recently devised approach for parenteral administration employs the implantation of a slow release or sustained release system, such that a constant level of dosage is maintained. See, e.g., U.S. Patent No. 3,710,795. The dosage employed is preferably in the range of 0.1 to 200mg active ingredient per day per kg body weight. As indicated above, the therapeutic effect of particular interest is the reduction of cholesterol levels in blood. In order to achieve this effect, the dosage of azetidine compound administered should normally be at least 100ppm of subject diet, corresponding approximately to 10 20 mg active compound per day per kg body weight with the upper limit being determined by other factors such as economics and avoidance of undesired side effects. It is also believed that other therapeutic effects may occur, particularly on tissues. For example, rat studies indicate that mortality over a two year period is reduced, apparently because treated rats suffer less from chronic renal disease than control rats. The invention is illustrated in the following Examples. Rats Fischer 344 strain were fed a standard diet LAD 2, supplied by K. K. Greff Chemicals Ltd., Croydon, England to which had been added varying amounts of test compound. The trial used 75 male and 75 female rats, with 15 of each sex in each dose group. Blood samples taken by retro orbital bleeding after the animals had been fed for 13, 26 and 52 weeks, and the concentration of cholesterol in the blood plasma determined by a standard enzymatic colorimetric test, kinetically measured ref. Siedel, J. et al 1981 . J. Clin. Chem. Clin. Biochem. 19,838 . The test compound was azetidine 3 carboxylic acid, and the results are set out in Table 1 below. Subsequently, retroorbital blood samples were obtained at week 78 and cardiac blood samples at termination of this 2 year study data obtained confirm the trends of Table 1. Survival of male rats to study termination was substantially greater in the 1000 ppm group 64 survival than in the controls or intermediate groups 24 48 . Preliminary observations at necropsy suggest that deaths due to chronic renal disease were fewer in the 1000 ppm group than in the other groups. Mice C57 C3H hybrid were fed for 13 weeks on a standard laboratory diet LAD 2, supplied by K. K. Greff Chemicals Ltd., Croydon, England to which had been added varying amounts of test compound. The trial used 75 male and 75 female mice, with 15 of each sex in each dose group. Blood samples were taken by retro orbital bleeding, and the concentration of cholesterol in the blood plasma determined by the standard enzymatic colorimetric test as used for Ex. 1 . The test compound was azetidine 3 carboxylic acid, and the results are set out in Table 2 below. Groups of 7 male and 7 female Fischer 344 rats were fed for 5 weeks on standard laboratory diet LAD 2 containing 2500 ppm azetidine 3 carboxylic acid or 2500 ppm of the methyl ester hydrochloride of azetidine 3 carboxylic acid. A group of 21 males and 21 females were fed LAD 2 only controls . Cardiac blood samples were obtained at terminal necropsy and the concentrations of plasma cholesterol determined as in Example 1. Results indicate that the concentrations of plasma cholesterol were less reductions in males 13 15 reductions in females 35 40 in the groups fed azetidine 3 carboxylic acid and the methyl ester hydrochloride of azetidine 3 carboxylic acid than in the controls. Groups of 3 male and 3 female hyperlipidaemic homozygotic rabbits Froxfield were fed standard rabbit diet containing 0 controls or 2500 ppm azetidine 3 carboxylic acid for eight weeks. Blood samples were obtained prior to initiation of the study day 0 , at day 28 and at termination day 56 for estimation of local plasma cholesterol method of Roeschau et al. 1974 Klin Chem., V Klin Biochem., The following examples illustrate pharmaceutical compositions according to the invention. In the examples, the active ingredient is either 3 carboxyazetidine or its methyl ester hydrochloride. Other azetidine derivatives may be formulated in a similar manner. The active ingredient and the microcrystalline cellulose are sieved through a 40 mesh screen. The sodium starch glycollate and sodium lauryl sulphate are sieved through a 60 mesh screen. The powders are blended together in a suitable blender until homogeneous. The mixture is then compressed on appropriate punches on an automatic tablet machine. The tablets may be covered in a thin polymer coat applied by the usual film coating technique. A pigment may be included in the film coat.