# Strip material exposure device.

## Abstract
A device for locating and showing a portion of strip mat erial comprises a length of strip material 30 passing over a base portion 10 and wound between two spools 40 which are in turn located at each end 16,17 of the base portion 10 by an upper portion 11 attached over the base 10 . In use the strip 20 is wound over a flat portion 14 of the base 10 which together with a corresponding aperture 30 in the upper portion 11 forms a window thereby exposing selec tively any portion of the strip material.

## Claims
CLAIMS. 1. A device for the selective exposure of a portion of strip material contained therein, characterised in that a casing hass a central base part 14 which has a smooth upper surface 15 , a central upper part 19 located over the central base part in closely spaced relation thereto and having an aperture 20 therein to expose a portion of the smooth surface 15 of the base part, a pair of chambers 16, 21 and 17, 22 one at each end of the central parts and in parallel disposition, each removably containing a spool 40 and a strip of material 30 connected to the spools and passing over the central base part 14 whereby a portion of the strip material is supported thereby and exposed by the aperture 20 in the upper central part 19 , and means 35 for rotating the spools 40 to transfer a portion of the strip material from one spool to the other and to expose a fresh portion of the strip material. 2. A device according to claim 1 characterised in that the means for rotating the spools 40 is a winder knob 35 which is integral with or attached to an end of each spool and which is at least partially exposed externally of the casing for manual rotation. 3. A device according to claim 2, characterised in that each knob 35 has a central opening 36 engageable by a writing instrument to effect rotation of the knob. 4. A device according to claim 1, 2 and 3 characterised in that the casing has a base part 10 and an upper part 11 hinged together at one end or adapted to snap fi together, the ends 16, 17 and 21, 22 of said parts being curved to form in combination the compartment for the spools 40 which can be inserted and removed when the parts 10 and 11 are hinged apart or separated. 5. A device according to any one of claims 1 to 4 characterised in that a lid 12 gs hingedly attached or snap fitted to the casing to overlie the upper part 11, 19, 21, 22 when the device is not in use. 6. A device according to claim 5, characterised in that the lid 12 and upper part 11 of the casing have a common fixing attaching them to the base part. 7. A device according to any one of claims 1 to 6, characterised in that the space between the curved ends 16, 17 of the base part 10 and below the central portion 14 thereof is enclosed by a compartment or drawer 45 . 8. A device according to any one of claims 1 to 7, characterised in that means 25 is provided for securing one or more attachments 26 to the casing. 9. A device according to claim 8, wherein the means 25 comprises a receiving hole 25 or a socket at one or each end of the casing, and a plug for fixed location in said hole 25 or socket, said plug to carry an attachment 26 . 10. A device according to any one of claims 1 to 9, wherein the strip material 30 is of a material suitable for writing on. 11. A device according to any one of claims 1 to 10, wherein the strip material 30 is resistant to water, oil or grease. 12. A device according to any one of claims 1 to 11, wherein the spool 40 is tubular and has a knob 35 attached to at least one end, the inner side of the spool has three ribs 41 and the knob 35 has a central aperture and a transverse hollow shaft 42 which is externally shaped to locate within the spool, a central aperture 36 in the knob and hollow shaft 42 being substantially triangular in shape to receive a writing instrument for manual rotation of the spool.

## Description
A DEVICE FOR THE SELECTIVE EXPOSURE OF A PORTION OFSTRIP MATERIAL. This invention relates to a device for selectively exposing a portion of strip material contained within the device. An object of the invention is to provide a device from which information can be obtained and or to which written data can be applied. According to the invention there is provided a device for the selective exposure of a portion of strip material contained therein, comprising a casing having a central base part which has a smooth upper surface, a central upper part located over the central base part in closely spaced relation thereto and having an aperture therein to expose a portion of the smooth surface of the base part, a pair of chambers one at each end of the central parts and in parallel disposition, each removeably containing a spool and a strip of material connected to the spools and passing over the central base part whereby a portion of the strip material is supported thereby and exposed by the aperture in the upper central part, and means for rotating the spools to transfer a portion of the strip material from one spool to the other and to expose a fresh portion of the strip material. Preferably, the means for rotating the spools is a winder knob which may be integral with or attached to an end of each spool and which is at least partially exposed externally of the casing for manual rotation. Preferably also, each knob has a central opening engageable by a writing instrument to effect rotation of the knob. Preferably also the casing has an upper part and a base part hinged together at one end or adapted to snap fit together the ends of said parts being curved to form in combination the compartment for the spools which can be inserted or removed when the parts are hinged apart or separated. The strip material may be of any material suitable for the purpose, such as paper, synthetic paper, laminated paper and plastics, foil or other suitable material in combination. It may be waterproof, resistant to oil or grease. tX lid may be hingedly attached or snap fitted to the device to overlie the upper part when the device is not in use. Preferably, the lid and upper part of the casing have a common fixing attaching them to the base part. Means is provided for securing one or more attachments to the casing, said means preferably comprising receiving holes or a socket at each end of the casing and a plug for fixed location in said holes or socket, said plugs carrying such attachments. The attachments may be a carrying strap, writing instrument on a chain, key holder, or apertured plate for holding one or more writing instruments. A closure plug, which is easily removable, is located in the holes or a socket when no attachment is provided. The lid, if provided can carry an attachment on its underside such as a pocket calculator, mirror or magnifying sheet. Preferably, the major portion of the compartments are in the base part and preferably also the space between the curved ends of the base part and below the central portion of the base part is enclosed by a compartment or drawer. An embodiment of the present invention will now be described with reference to the accompanying drawings in which Fig. 1 is a perspective view from the top and one end of a device according to the invention Fig. 2 is a corresponding view exploded of the casing of the device Fig. 3 is a plan view of the device and Fig. 4 is a sectional end view of a spool. Preferring to the drawings, the device comprises a casing containing a strip of material which can be wound manually from one spool to another. The casing has two main parts, a base part 10 and an upper part 11 and optional parts such as a lid 12 and a storage compartment 13 Fig. 3 below the base part 10. The base part 10 has a central portion 14 which has a flat smooth upper surface 15 and a pair of part cylindrical portions 16, 17 parallel to each other at the ends of the central part. These end portions 16, 17 carry slotted brackets 18 to receive the spools not shown in Figs. 1 to 3 which carry the strip material. The upper part 11 has a central portion 19 which has a large rectangular opening 20 therein, and two curved end portions 21, 22 which combine with the end portions 16, 17 of the base part to form tubular compartments in this embodiment cylindrical to recieve the spools. The base and upper parts 10, 11 may snap fit together, but in this embodiment the upper part 11 is hinged to the base part 10 at one end by hinge pints not shown which are clipped into or moulded to one or both parts and may pass through transverse tubular portions not shown at that end of the base and upper parts, and a catch 23 on the upper part 11 engages a recess 24 on the base part at the other end of these parts also at each end of the base part 10 are a pair of holes 25 or a socket to receive plugs not shown carrying attachments 26 Fig. 3 such as a pen pencil stand, or carrying strap as shown, or a key holder or pocket clip or other accessory. These plugs are intended to firmly hold in the holes or socket but a readily removeable closure plug 27 is provided to close these holes 25 socket when no attachment is mounted therein. When the upper part 11 overlies the base part 10, there is a slight gap between the central portions 14 and 19 so that the strip of material 30 Fig. 1 can run from bne spool to the other across the flat smooth surface 15 of the base part. A pair of transverse ridges 31, 32 may be provided at the ends of the central portion 14 of the base part, particularly if the device is likely to be subjected to moisture, i.e. for outdoor use, or water for underwater use because the ridges will assist in breaking any vacuum which is created between the strip material 30 and the smooth surface 15 if the strip material becomes damp or wet when the spools are rotated to wind on the material. The means of rotating the spools is a knob 35 integral with or attached to one or each end of each spool, so that the strip material can be wound on or back as desired. Each knob 35 is at least partially exposed at the side of the casing for manual rotation of the chosen knob. Each knob has a central aperture 36 for engagement by a writing instrument to which can effect quicker rotation of the chosen knob than rotating the knob by hand. In this embodiment, each spool is tubular and made of a rigid plastics material and it has a specially shaped interior as shown in Fig. 4 knob 35 is omitted. The inner side of the spool 40 has three ribs 41 and the knobs 35 each have a transverse hollow shaft 42 which is externally shaped to locate within the spool.The aperture 36 in the knob extends through the shaft 42 and said through aperture is also correspondingly shaped so that a writing instrument 43 having a long itudinally fluted outer surface can locate in the through aperture and on manual rotation will cause the spool 40 to rotate. The three ribs 41 and corresponding.deformations i the knob ensure a firm non slip engagement of the fluted body 43 of the writing instrument.Such a writing instrument, for example a ball point pen, can have u body which is fluted over most of its length apart from a small portion at the end remote from the ball point end so that the pen can be carried in the spool when not in use, only the non fluted end projecting from the knob. The pen is normally used for writing data into the portion of strip material exposed by the opening in the upper part of the casing, for example, when the strip material is a series of report sheets exposed at a time and after completion wound on to expose the next report sheet. Writing on the exposed face is possible because the flat base plate supports the portion ot strip material also the material of the strip may be treated to enable writing upon it, for example, waterproofed material. A knob 35 is preferably provided at each end of each spool so that the device is more readily usable by right handed and left handed persons. The major portion of the cylindrical compartments of the casing are, in this embodiment, in the base part and a relatively large space is provided between the curved ends of the base and below the central portion this space is utilized for storing items Fig. 3 such as one or more spare spools of strip material. A storage compartment not shown having a lid for access, or one or more drawers 45 form the storage means. A longitudinal strengthening rib 46 may be provided on the underside of the base part and it may be on the central axis or off set to one side as in Fig. 3 in either case, a drawer 45 can be provided at each side of the casing, terminating inwardly at the rib, or one or two compartments can be provided one on each side of the rib 46. The device has a great many applications to business, commerce and industry. The strip may for example, torm a series of report sheets whereby when one report has been filled in the strip is wound on to expose the next report sheet it may form the pages of a book such as particularly for use by invalids, instruction manual for service engineers, a diary or a series of colouring pictures or story book for children the strip may be blank for use as a note pad or sketch pad it may be waterproof for use by divers. It is proposed to produce the device in four sizes from pocket size, through small and medium to large with approximate outside dimensions as follows.Approximate. Dimensions Outside. Pocket 65 x 125 x 25 mmSmall 115 x 190 x 35 mmMedium 225 x 350 x 40 mmLarge 320 x 510 x 50 mm The lid, if provided can carry an attachment on its underside such as a pocket calculator, mirror or magnifying sheet 50.