# Cracking with molecular sieves containing aluminium, phosphorus and silicon.

## Abstract
There is provided a process for cracking gas oils and heavier hydrocarbons with molecular sieve catalysts which contain aluminum, phosphorus and silicon, preferably having a faujasite type crystalline structure. Such molecular sieves may be prepared by the method for making SAPO 37 as described in the Lok et al U.S. Patent No. 4,440,871. These molecular sieves may be used alone or as additives to other catalysts for octane improvement in the cracking of gas oils to produce a product stream including gasoline.

## Claims
1. A process for catalytic cracking of hydrocarbons having a boiling range within the range of 232 to 760 C at a temperature of 300 C to 700 C, a pressure of from 0.1 atmosphere to 30 atmospheres and a weight hourly space velocity of from 0.1 to 100 using a cracking catalyst to produce a product stream comprising gasoline characterized by use of a catalyst of a microporous, crystalline material having a faujasite type crystalline structure, the molecular sieve being prepared by crystallizing sources of Al₂O₃, P₂O₅ and SiO₂.

## Description
This invention relates to cracking reactions with molecular sieve catalysts which contain aluminum, phosphorus and silicon. The Lok et al U.S. Patent No. 4,440,871, describes various molecular sieves which contain aluminum, phosphorus and silicon. These molecular sieves of the Lok et al patent are termed silicoaluminophosphates and are prepared by crystallizing various sources of Al₂O₃, P₂O₅ and SiO₂. One such silicoalumino phosphate described in the Lok et al patent is termed SAPO 37. This SAPO 37 has a characteristic X ray powder diffraction pattern in Table XV reproduced herein The X ray diffraction patterns for SAPO 37 given in the Lok et al patent correspond to the crystalline structure of faujasite. The Pine U.S. Patent No. 4,504,382 describes the modification of zeolite Y with dihydrogen phosphate or dihydrogen phosphite anions. The resulting phosphorus containing zeolite Y is said to result in greater cracking activity resulting in a naphtha with an octane number about as high as that obtained with comparative zeolite Y which was not modified with phosphorus. Note column 8, lines 1 17 of the Pine patent. The Chester et al U.S. Patent Nos. 4,309,279, 4,368,114 and 4,416,765 describe the addition of various additive catalysts to different cracking catalysts. The additive catalysts result in an improvement in octane number. The present invention provides a process for catalytic cracking of hydrocarbons having a boiling range within the range of 232 to 760 C at a temperature of 300 C to 700 C, a pressure of from 0.1 atmosphere to 30 atmospheres and a weight hourly space velocity of from 0.1 to 100 using a cracking catalyst to produce a product stream comprising gasoline characterized by use of a catalyst of a microporous, crystalline material having a faujasite type crystalline structure, said molecular sieve being prepared by crystallizing sources of A1₂O₃, P₂O₅ and SiO₂. In other embodiments, the catalyst used is a system of at least the above molecular sieve and a conventional catalytic cracking component. The molecular sieves used in accordance with the present invention may be prepared by methods for making SAPO 37 as described in Lok et al U.S. Patent No. 4,440,871. These molecular sieves may contain at least 1 percent Al atoms, at least 1 percent P atoms and at least 1 percent Si atoms, based upon the total number of Al, P and Si atoms in the molecular sieve. The number of Al atoms in the molecular sieve may exceed the number of Si atoms in the molecular sieve, and the number of P atoms in the molecular sieve may exceed the number of Si atoms in the molecular sieve. The optional conventional catalytic cracking component may be molecular sieves with a faujasite type structure. Various synthetic zeolites such as zeolite X and zeolite Y, which are prepared by cocrystallizing SiO₂ and Al₂O₃ under appropriate conditions, have a faujasite structure. The structures of these materials may be modified in minor fashions, e.g., to enhance their catalytic properties, by a number of physical and chemical treatments such as by calcination, steaming and dealumination. Faujasite type structures as used herein means the range of structures produced when synthetic faujasites are subjected to the various physical and chemical treatments which do not degrade and may enhance their catalytic properties. In addition to faujasite type structures, the optional catalyst may have other structures, which are sufficiently porous to permit sorption of large molecules in a manner analogous to faujasite. One such structure is described in U.S. Application Serial No. 642,967. Examples of structures which are capable of sorbing large molecules include those with pore windows formed with 10 or 12 membered rings of atoms. In addition to the structure of SAPO 37, the structures of SAPO 5, SAPO 11 and SAPO 40, which are discussed in the aforementioned Lok et al U.S. Patent No. 4,440,871, has structures with pore windows formed with 10 or 12 membered rings of atoms. It may be possible to replace the silicon, phosphorus and aluminum portions of the molecular sieves discussed above, in whole or in part, with functionally equivalent elements. For example, in the field of zeolites containing silicon and aluminum, it has been found that the silicon portion thereof may be replaced with, e.g., germanium, and the aluminum portion thereof may be replaced with iron, chromium, vanadium, molybdenum, arsenic, antimony, manganese, gallium or boron. Note U.S. Application Serial No. 642,925, filed August 21, 1984, in this regard. In addition to crystallizing sources of SiO₂, Al₂O₃ and P₂O₅ in the manner described in the Lok et al U.S. Patent No. 4, 440,871, it may be possible to prepare the molecular sieves suitable for use in accordance with the present invention by other techniques. For example, it may be possible to prepare such materials by impregnating a silicon and aluminum containing zeolite with an appropriate phosphorus compound, followed by calcination under conditions sufficient to convert the impregnated phosphorus to the oxide form. Note U.S. Patent Nos. 3,894,104 4,049,573 4,086,287 and 4,128,592. It is also possible that aluminum phosphate materials could be combined with silica in the manner discussed in U.S. Application Serial No. 606,496, filed May 3, 1984. Catalytic cracking units which are amenable to the process of this invention may operate at a temperature of 204 to 704 C 400 F to 1300 F and under reduced, atmospheric or superatmospheric pressure. The catalytic cracking process may be operated batchwise or continuously. The catalytic cracking process can be either fixed bed, moving bed or fluidized bed and the hydrocarbon charge stock flow may be either concurrent or countercurrent to the conventional catalyst flow. The process of this invention is particularly applicable to the fluid catalytic cracking FCC process. Further details regarding particular process parameters, such as conditions, feedstocks, etc., are provided in U.S. Patent Nos. 4, 309,279, 4,368,114 and 4,416,765. In practicing the present cracking process, it may be desirable to incorporate the phosphorous containing crystalline material, and optional conventional cracking component, in another material resistant to the temperature and other conditions employed in the process. Such matrix materials include synthetic or naturally occurring substances as well as inorganic materials such as clay, silica and or metal oxides. The materials may be in the form of gelatinous precipitates or gels including mixtures of silica and metal oxides. Naturally occurring clays which can be used include those of the montmorillonite and kaolin families, which families include the sub bentonites and the kaolins commonly known as Dixie, McNamee Geogia and Florida clays or others in which the main mineral constituent is halloysite, kaolinite, dickite, nacrite or anauxite. Such clays can be used in the raw state as originally mined or initially subjected to calcination, acid treatment or chemical modification. Other matrix materials, such as alumina, silica alumina, silica magnesia, silica zirconia, silica thoria, silica beryllia, silica titania as well as ternary compositions, such as silica alumina thoria, silica alumina zirconia, silica alumina magnesia and silica magnesia zirconia may also be used. The matrix may be in the form of a cogel. The relative proportions of zeolite component, e.g., SAPO 37 made as taught in U.S. 4,440,871 and other catalytic cracking components, if any, and inorganic oxide gel matrix on an anhydrous basis may vary widely with the molecular sieve content ranging from between 1 to 99 percent by weight and more usually 5 to 80 percent by weight of the dry composite. The cracking conditions are conventional and include a temperature of 300 C to 700 C, a pressure of from 0.1 atmosphere to 30 atmospheres and a weight hourly space velocity of 0.1 to 100. The feedstock including the hydrocarbons to be cracked may include, in whole or in part, a gas oil e.g., light, medium or heavy gas oil having a boiling range falling within the range of 232 to 760 C 450 F to 1400 F . A solution was prepared by mixing 12.6 parts phosphoric acid 85 by weight , 13.4 parts distilled water and 7.5 parts alumina Catapal SB . A second solution was prepared by combining 1.4 parts silica Cab O Sil M 5 , 1 part of an aqueous solution of tetramethylammonium hydroxide 25 by weight and 52.7 parts of an aqueous solution of tetrapropylammonium hydroxide solution 40 by weight . These two solutions were then mixed with stirring until homogeneous. The combined mixture was then placed into an autoclave and heated to 200 C with constant stirring for 24 hours. The resultant product was then filtered, washed, and dried overnight at 121 C 250 F . An analyses of this material follows and is compared to that material prepared in Example 43 of U.S. Patent 4,440,871. Solution A, containing 8.03 parts sodium silicate 28.7 wt SiO₂, 8.9 wt Na₂O, 62.4 wt H₂O and 26.2 parts water, was cooled to 4 7 C 40 45 F and mixed at 700 800 RPM with a Cowles mixer while slowly adding 0.6 parts of 100 H₂SO₄. Over the next 1 2 hour, solution B, containing 1 part aluminum sulfate 17.2 wt Al₂O₃ and 7.50 parts water, was slowly added and the resulting gel was agitated at 700 800 RPM for 1 2 hour. A slurry containing 0. 62 parts of the molecular sieve of Example 1 100 solids basis and 2.49 parts water was added to the gel and the resulting slurry was then mixed for one hour at 700 800 RPM. This material was then filtered on a Buchner funnel, reslurried to about 11 solids, homogenized and spray dried. The spray dried catalyst was then NH₄NO₃ exchanged, water washed and dried at 121 C 250 F for at least 16 hours. The resulting catalyst contained 20 of the molecular sieve of Example 1 in a 93 7 weight ratio amorphous SiO₂ Al₂O₃ matrix. The catalyst from Example 2 was steamed for 10 hours at 677 C 1250 F , atmospheric pressure with 45 steam and 55 air in a fluidized bed. The catalyst from Example 3 was steamed for 10 hours, at 788 C 1450 F , atmospheric pressure with 45 steam and 55 air in a fluidized bed. The fluid catalyst of this Example uses the exact procedure outlined in Example 2 but substitutes calcined REY in place of the molecular sieve of Example 1. The resulting catalyst contained 20 REY in a 93 7 weight ratio amorphous SiO₂ Al₂O₃ matrix. A portion of the catalyst from Example 5 was steamed for 10 hours, at 677 C 1250 F , atmospheric pressure with 45 steam and 55 air in a fluidized bed. A portion of the catalyst from Example 5 was steamed for 10 hours, at 788 C 1450 F , atmospheric pressure with 45 steam and 55 air in a fluidized bed. The catalysts of Examples 3, 4, 6 and 7 were evaluated in a fixed fluidized bed unit at 516 C 960 F , 1.75 5.0 C O, 34 12 WHSV hr ¹ weight hourly space velocity using Joliet Sour Heavy Gas Oil JSHGO as feed. The JSHGO feed had the properties set forth below Comparisons of the REY Examples 6 and 7 catalyst and present Examples 3 and 4 catalyst results are given in Tables 2 and 3 for the 677 C 1250 F 70 volume percent conversion and 788 C 1450 F 55 volume percent conversion steamings, respectively. At the 677 C 1250 F steaming, the present catalyst gives a 4.2 RON O improvement with only a 2.4 volume percent lower C₅ gasoline yield relative to the REY catalyst. The present catalyst also gives higher C₃ C₄ olefins which when alkylated result in increased C₅ gasoline alkylate yields. Coke, HFO and LFO yields are roughly equivalent. Following the more severe steam deactivation at 788 C 1450 F , the present catalyst retains a 3.7 RON O improvement relative to REY catalyst with only a 1.6 volume percent reduction in the C₅ gasoline yield. Thus, the increased steaming severity appears to improve the selectivity of the present catalyst octane gain per volume decrease in gasoline increased. In addition, following the more severe steaming, the present catalyst yielded 3.9 weight percent more LFO and 4.2 weight percent less HFO than the REY catalyst. The foregoing Examples indicate that at constant conversion the present catalyst produces a gasoline with 3 5 higher RON O albeit at a 1 2 volume percent yield penalty relative to the REY catalyst. This octane increase is also accompanied by higher yields of C₃ and C₄ olefins which, when alkylated, gives greater C₅ gasoline alkylate yields for the present catalyst. In addition, when steamed at conditions which simulate equilibration of REY in a commercial unit, the present catalyst yields about 4 volume percent more LFO than does REY suggesting a greater selectivity for bottoms cracking. While the Examples and evaluations described above are for stand alone cracking catalysts, the potential applications of the present catalyst include its use in the presence of other conventional active catalysts such as REY, USY, HY, zeolite Beta, ZSM 5, amorphous catalysts, etc. either as an additive or a composite catalyst. The amount of the present catalyst in the catalyst mixture or composite may be, e.g., from 0.01 to 50 weight percent, or, e.g., from 0.1 to 25 weight percent, based upon the total weight of the cracking catalyst present. Examples 9 to 11, detailed below, illustrate the effect of the catalyst in accordance with the present invention when evaluated as an additive catalyst. A sample of Super D, a commercially available fluid cracking catalyst manufactured by the Davison Division of W.R. Grace Co., was steamed for 10 hours, at 788 C 1450 F , atmospheric pressure with 45 percent steam and 55 percent air in a fluidized bed. A portion of the steamed catalyst from Example 4 was combined with the catalyst of Example 9 in proportions to give a blend containing 4 weight percent of the molecular sieve from the Example 4 catalyst in Super D. The catalysts of Examples 9 and 10 were evaluated in a fixed fluidized bed unit at 516 C 960 F , 1.75 5.0 c o, 34 12 WHSV hr ¹ weight hourly space velocity using a Joliet Sour Heavy Gas Oil feed. A comparison of the catalysts of Examples 9 and 10, given in Table 4, illustrate the effect of the Example 4 catalyst as an additive catalyst in the presence of an REY base catalyst. These results indicate that at constant conversion the addition of 4 weight percent of the molecular sieve from the Example 4 catalyst to Super D gives a 1.5 RON O increase with only a 0.5 volume percent lower C₅ gasoline yield. The other major product yields appear unaffected by the Example 4 catalyst additive. Since P is claimed to passivate V, the present phosphorus containing cracking catalysts would be expected to be highly resistant to metals poisoning. Current trends in FCC indicate both increasing demand for gasoline octane and the need to process heavier feeds such as atmospheric and vacuum tower bottoms. Therefore, a metals tolerant catalyst which yields both increased octane and bottoms cracking could find widespread application throughout the industry. As indicated by the foregoing examples, the beneficial effects of the present invention, e.g., in terms of improved octane number can be achieved without the addition of carbon hydrogen fragmentation compounds as additives to the feed. Such carbon hydrogen fragmentation compounds such as methanol are described in the Long et al U.S. Patent No. 4,512,875.