# MAGNETIC FIELD SENSOR HAVING MAGNETO OPTIC ELEMENT

## Claims
Magnetfeldsensor, der mit einem Lichtquellenteil 11 , einem ein Magnetfeld feststellenden Teil, der ein magnetooptisches Element 13 enthält, das aus einem magnetooptische Wirkungen aufweisenden Material und Polarisatoren 12,14 besteht und einem Licht messenden Teil 15 versehen ist, der das Licht mißt, welches von dem Lichtquellenteil 11 abgestrahlt worden und durch den das Magnetfeld feststellenden Teil hindurchgegangen ist, dadurch gekennzeichnet, daß das magnetooptische Element 13 so angeordnet ist, daß seine leicht magnetisierbare Achse im wesentlichen rechtwinklig zur Richtung des zu messenden Magnetfelds 16 verläuft.

## Description
This invention relates to a magnetic field sensor which uses the magneto optic effect of a magnetic material. In particular, it provides a magnetic field sensor which can measure a wide range of magnetic fields with a high degree of accuracy. In the field of electric power, the efficient running and automation of electric power systems of increasing capacity necessitate digital control and protection systems for high voltage plant in sub stations and the like. Current and voltage sensors for controlling and measuring the current and voltage of high voltage power transmitters and transformers are indispensable for this purpose. The need for the equipment to be small, low cost and reliable means that current and voltage sensors must be well insulated against high voltages, resistant to electro magnetic faults, miniaturised, and of high performance. Hitherto, control and measurement of current has been effected by using a large transformer with a core and windings, but this means that there is a space problem and there are problems related to poor insulation against high voltage and poor resistance to electro magnetic noise. In order to solve these problems associated with transformers, the optical magnetic field sensor has been developed as a current sensing device for electrical systems. In recent years, magnetic garnet single crystal and ZnSe single crystal having a large magneto optic effect Faraday effect and little optical absorption have been disclosed in reports of optical magnetic field sensors which use these in combination with optical fibres e.g. These optical magnetic field sensors consist of a light source part e.g. a light emitting diode , a magnetic field detection part, containing magnetic garnet single crystal having a Faraday effect e.g. Y Tb ₃Fe₅O₁₂, Y Sm Lu Ca ₃ Fe.Ge ₅O₁₂, Y As shown in Figure 7 of the accompanying drawings which is a block diagram of a conventional magnetic field sensor, there is a light source 1, a polarizer 2, a Faraday element magnetic garnet in the form of a thin film 3 as a magneto optical element, a polarizer 4 and a photo receptor element 5, arranged in sequence. They are linked, by optical means for light transmission, such as optical fibres, lenses or the like not shown . The direction of the axis of easy magnetization of Faraday element 3 is at right angles to the thin film plane, and maze like magnetic domains are formed in the thin film. This Faraday element 3 has the thin film element disposed at right angles to the direction 6 of the magnetic field to be measured, so that its axis of easy magnetization is parallel to the direction of the magnetic field to be measured Japanese Patent Disclosure Nos. 58 139082, 58 27071, 58 27072 . The light is transmitted at right angles to the thin film plane of Faraday element 3. Polarizers 2 and 4 are arranged so that their axes of polarization make an angle of 45 The principle of this optical magnetic field sensor will now be explained. The light radiated from light source 1 first becomes polarized light at polarizer 2, then passes through Faraday element 3. When the magnetic field applied to Faraday elements 3 is 0 zero , Faraday element 3 is in a demagnetized state and, since there is no magnetization component in the direction of transmission of the light, the plane of polarization of the light does not rotate. As the axes of polarization between polarizers 2 and 4 are rotated through an angle of 45 When on the other hand a magnetic field H is applied to Faraday element 3, the magnetic field H induces a magnetization component in Faraday element 3 in the direction of transmission of the light, and the plane of polarization of the linearly polarized light passing through Faraday element 3 is rotated through an angle ϑ proportionate to M, namely However, the above described embodiment of the magnetic field sensor gives rise to the following problems If the diameter of the beam of light is small, it is liable to be affected by non uniformity of the pattern width of the magnetic domains, and by the width of these domains. This means that, if the magnetic field to be measured changes dynamically, the angle ϑ may also change, depending on the shape and direction of the magnetic garnet single crystal, in relation to the magnetic field being measured. This makes it difficult to measure the magnetic field with a high degree of accuracy. A further problem is that, if the saturation magnetization is large, the energy of the demagnetizing field is also increased, so the saturation magnetization cannot, in general, be permitted to be large, with the result that it is difficult to measure a high magnetic field. Non magnetic ZnSe can be used in place of magnetic garnet single crystal when measuring a high magnetic field. But there is a problem here too, in that the ZnSe has only a small magnetooptic effect and low sensitivity. In addition to the above mentioned problems that are liable to be affected by the width of the magnetic domains, with the conventional optical magnetic field sensor it is difficult to measure a small magnetic field having the limitation of the saturation magnetization M According to the present invention a magnetic field sensor is provided with a light source part, a magnetic field detection part containing a magnetooptic element consisting of magnetic material having magnetooptic effect and polarizers, and a light measurement part which measures the light that has been radiated from said light source part and has passed through said magnetic field detection part, characterized in that said magnetooptic element is arranged such that its easy axis of magnetization is substantially at right angles to the direction of the magnetic field to be measured. The following may be cited as specific examples of the construction of the magnetic field sensor of the invention 1 a construction in which the magnetooptic element is in the form of a thin film, with its axis of easy magnetization in the thin film plane, that is, the direction of the easy magnetization axis is parallel to the thin film plane, the thin film plane of the magnetooptic element is at right angles to the direction of the magnetic field to be measured, and the light is transmitted at right angles to the thin film plane, that is the direction of the incident light beam is at right angles to the thin film plane 2 a construction in which the magnetooptic element is in the form of a thin film, with its axis of easy magnetization in the thin film plane, the thin film plane of the magnetooptic element is parallel to the direction of the magnetic field to be measured, and the light is transmitted parallel to the thin film plane 3 a construction in which the magnetooptic element is in the form of a thin film, with its axis of easy magnetization facing in one direction, at right angles to the thin film plane, the thin film plane of the magnetooptic element is parallel to the direction of the magnetic field to be measured, and the light is transmitted at right angles to the thin film plane of the magnetooptic element or 4 a construction in which the magnetooptic element is in the form of a thin film, with its axis of easy magnetization at right angles to the thin film plane, the thin film plane of the magnetooptic element is parallel to the direction of the magnetic field to be measured, and the light is transmitted parallel to the thin film plane of the magnetooptic element. In the above mentioned cases 1 , 2 , 3 and 4 the magnetooptic elements is preferably a material having uniaxial magnetic anisotropy. When the axis of easy magnetization of the magnetic material is in the thin film plane, as in constructions 1 or 2 , the anisotropic magnetic field H Magnetic garnet, expressed for example by the general formulae given below, is used as the magnetic material . Magnetic materials fulfilling the conditions described above, and thus magnetic field sensors of the constructions 1 to 4 described above, can be obtained by altering its composition as appropriate. The magnetic garnet used has the composition expressed by the 1st general formula R₃Fe₅O₁₂ where R is at least one element selected from Y, La, Ce, Nd, Pr, Sm, Eu, Gd, Tb, Dy, Ho, Er, Tm, Yb and Lu , the composition expressed by the 2nd general formula Bi An explanation follows of the action of the elements constituting the magnetic garnet expressed by these formulae and of the reasons for the limits set to their contents in each case. Bi Bismuth has the action of enhancing the magnetooptic effect and increasing the sensitivity of the magnetic field sensor. The reason why the range of x, which represents the Bi content, was set at 0.01 x 2.5 is that with x at less than 0.01 there is no observable increase in the magnetooptic effect, while with x at more than 2.5 it is difficult to grow the single crystal, or the yield is inferior, or else more faults occur in the single crystal, making it unsuitable for use. The M which in the 3rd general formula is substituted for part of the Fe Iron is a non magnetic element which has the action of turning the easy axis of magnetization to the thin film plane by reducing the perpendicular magnetic anisotropy, or of bringing it at right angles to the thin film plane by reducing the saturization magnetization. The reason why the range of y, which represents the M content, was set at 0.1 y 2.0 is that with y at less than 0.01 the effects mentioned were not obtained, while with y at more than 2.0 the magnetooptic effect is reduced. The N which in the 3rd general formula is similarly substituted for part of the Fe has the action of increasing magnetization in the thin film plane or at right angles to it, and makes it possible to measure higher magnetic fields. The reason why the range of z, which represents the N content, was set at 0.01 z 1.0 is that with z at less than 0.01 the effects mentioned are not obtained, while with z at more than 1.0 the magnetooptic effect is reduced. Because it contains Bi, magnetic garnet expressed by the general formulae given above has a very large magnetooptic effect and outstanding magnetic field sensitivity, and thus can measure minute magnetic fields. The M Ga, Al, Ge, Si, V, Sb and N Ti, Cr, Mn, Ni, Co, Zr, Hf, Sn, Mg, In, Ta, Nb, Sc components enable it, moreover, to measure high magnetic fields. Among the N components, this effect is particularly marked in the case of Co Cobalt . By selecting the suitable composition, the above mentioned cases of construction 1 , 3 and 4 can measure over a wide range of magnetic field with a high accuracy, and the case of construction 2 can measure over a small range of magnetic field with a high sensitivity and a high accuracy. Furthermore, in this invention the magnetic garnet expressed by general formulas R₃Fe₅O₁₂, Bi The thickness of the magnetic garnet film used in the invention is determined with reference to transmittivity and the size of the angle of Faraday rotation. When the light is transmitted at right angles to the thin film plane of the magnetic material, as in magnetic field sensors of constructions 1 or 3 , the thickness is usually 1 400µm, and preferably 4 100µm several superimposed films may be used. When the light is transmitted parallel to the thin film plane of the magnetic materials, as in a magnetic field sensor of construction 2 or 4 , the thickness is usually at least 10µm, and preferably at least 40µm several films may be used, arrayed in the direction of transmission of the light. Alternatively, a thin sheet, of a maximum thickness of 5mm, may be used in place of the thin film. In particular, if several thin films of magnetic garnet, of different temperature characteristics are used, with their composition adjusted as described above, Faraday rotation angle performance can be obtained which is stable despite changes of temperature, enabling measurement to be made of magnetic fields over a wide range of temperatures. The magnetic garnet thin film used in the invention can be of any shape circular, rectangular, etc. , and there is no need to adopt any specific shape. The ratio of thickness t to length especially minimum length ℓ The magnetic garnet used in the invention can be either single crystal or polycrystalline but usually single crystal, which absorbs little light, is preferable. Common methods of growing such single crystals include the flux method process, which uses the oxides PbO, PbF₂, Bi₂O₃, MoO₃, V₂O₅ etc. as flux, the CVD Chemical Vapor Deposition method, the LPE Liquid Phase Epitaxial method, the FZ Floating zone method, the TSSG Top Seeded Solution Growth method and the hydrothermal method. Anisotropy induced by uniaxial growth uniaxial magnetic anisotropy tends to occur in magnetic garnet single crystal grown by the LPE or flux methods, which are those most commonly used at the present time. When magnetic garnet single crystal grown by the flux method, for example, has uniaxial magnetic anisotropy, it can be used in the magnetic field sensors of constructions 1 and 2 . The magnetic garnet thin film is prepared by cutting horizontally to the plane of the film in the direction in which the uniaxial magnetic anisotropy has developed this is the easy axis of magnetization . Magnetic garnet single crystal which can be used in the magnetic field sensors of constructions 3 or 4 is prepared by cutting vertically in the direction in which the uniaxial magnetic anisotropy has developed. If the magnetic garnet thin film is prepared by cutting horizontally or vertically in the direction in which the uniaxial magnetic anisotropy has developed, the easy axis of magnetization and the direction of measuring magnetic field are at right angles to each other. The film can be used for the magnetic field sensor of each of the constructions 1 , 2 , 3 and 4 . In the magnetic garnet single crystal thin film, the easy axis of magnetization, while it also depends on the composition, is in any one of the directions 111 , 110 and 100 . In the magnetic field sensor of constructions 1 , 2 , 3 and 4 having such uniaxial magnetic anisotropy, because the change of magnetization occurs by the rotation of magnetic moment, the limit of the magnetic field H Namely, the uniaxial magnetic anisotropy energy K Particularly, large K In the LPE method, gadolinium gallium garnet Gd₃Ga₅O₁₂ GGG which has 111 faces is usually used as the substrate of the construction 3 or 4 , and the thin film is formed by epitaxial growth on this substrate of the desired magnetic garnet single crystal. In the case of the substrate of the construction 1 or 2 , the easy axis of magnetization can be made to be in the thin film plane if the axis is in the 110 direction. If the axis is in the 111 or 100 direction, it can similarly be made to be in the thin film plane by using 110 face substrate. When growing magnetic garnet single crystal with, e.g., a high Bi content, it is preferable to use a single crystal substrate of Nd₃Ga₅O₁₂, Sm₃Ga₅O₁₂ or their derivatives, in which there is minimal mismatch of lattice constants with the magnetic garnet single crystal, in place of the GGG substrate. With the magnetic field sensor according to the present invention, it is desirable that the easy axis of magnetization of magnetic garnet and the direction of the magnetic field to be measured are perfectly coincided at right angles but, if the easy axis of magnetization is not exactly at right angles to the direction of the magnetic field to be measured, the object of the present invention may be sufficiently achieved except that the sensitivity of measurement decreases slightly and, when the sensitivity of measurement in the construction 2 is increased, it is desirable to reduce the uniaxial magnetic anisotropy. It is further desirable, when necessary to control the magnitude of the uniaxial magnetic anisotropy K With a magnetic field sensor of this kind, since the easy axis of magnetization of the magnetooptic element Faraday element is at right angles to the direction of the magnetic field to be measured, the magnetization component in the direction of the magnetic field to be measured is produced by a mechanism of the magnetic rotation and this magnetization component changes linearly in proportion to the size of the magnetic field to be measured, right up to high magnetic fields. Again, since the effect of non uniformity of the pattern of the magnetic domains, and of the width of the magnetic domains, can be avoided, not only when the magnetooptic element does not form maze like magnetic domains, but even when it does form such domains, magnetic fields can be measured with a high degree of accuracy. Fig. 1 is a block diagram of a optical magnetic field sensor according to the invention. Fig. 2 shows the relation of directions of, the incident light beam which passes through Faraday element, the magnetic field to be measured and the easy axis of magnetization. Fig. 3, Fig. 4 and Fig. 5 are block diagrams of a magnetic field sensor according to alternative embodiments of the invention. Fig. 6 shows the relation of directions of, the incident light beam which passes through Faraday element, the magnetic field to be measured and the easy axis of magnetization, of another embodiment. Fig. 7 is a block diagram of the conventional magnetic field sensor. Fig. 8 and Fig. 9 show characteristics of the embodiments for comparison. Fig. 10 shows the temperature characteristics of the superimposed construction according to the invention. Embodiments of the invention are explained below, referring to the drawings. Fig. 1 is a block diagram of a magnetic field sensor according to the invention. In this figure, a light source 11, a polarizer 12, a Faraday element 13 in the form of a thin film, a polarizer 14 and a photoreceptor element 15 are arranged in sequence. They are linked, by optical means such as optical fibres, lenses or the like not shown in the drawing . In this magnetic field sensor, the easy axis of magnetization of Faraday element 13 is in the thin film plane, and the thin film plane is arranged at right angles to the direction 16 of the magnetic field to be measured. The light is transmitted at right angles to the thin film plane of Faraday element 13. The arrangement is such that, as shown in Fig. 2, the beam of light 17 which passes through Faraday element 13 does not traverse the magnetic walls 18 of the element 13. Polarizers 12 and 14 are disposed such that the axis of polarization between them is rotated through an angle of 45 . Signal processing is carried out to ensure that when the magnetic field to be measured H 0, the output signal P 0. The principle of this magnetic field sensor will now be explained. First, the light radiated from light source 11 passes via optical fibres not shown in the drawing through polarizer 12, becoming linearly polarized light. Next, this linearly polarized light strikes, at right angles, the thin film plane of Faraday element 13. When magnetic field to be measured H is applied to Faraday element 13, magnetization M is produced in the transmission direction of the light, in proportion to the magnetic field, and after the linearly polarized light has passed through Faraday element 13, the angle ϑ of inclination of its plane of polarization is rotated in proportion to this magnetization by an amount Fig. 3 is a block diagram of another magnetic field sensor according to the invention. In this drawing, a light source 21, a polarizer 22, a Faraday element 23 in the form of a thin film, a polarizer 24 and a photoreceptor 25 are arranged in sequence. They are linked, by optical means such as optical fibres, lenses or the like not shown in the drawing . In this magnetic field sensor, the thin film plane is parallel to the direction 26 of the magnetic field to be measured, so that the easy axis of magnetization of Faraday element 23 is unidirectional, at right angles to the thin film plane, and at right angles to the direction 26 of the magnetic field to be measured. The light is transmitted at right angles to the thin film plane of Faraday element 23. Polarizers 22 and 24 are disposed such that the axis of polarization between them is rotated through an angle of 45 Signal processing is carried out to ensure that when the magnetic field to be measured H 0, the output signal P 0. Measurement of a magnetic field is effected by the magnetic field sensor shown in Fig. 3 on the same principle as in the case of the magnetic field sensor shown in Fig. 1. Fig. 4 is a block diagram of another magnetic field sensor according to the invention. In this drawing, a light source 31, a polarizer 32, a Faraday element 33 in the form of a thin film, a polarizer 34 and a photoreceptor 35 are arranged in sequence. They are linked, by optical means such as optical fibres, lenses or the like not shown in the drawing . In this magnetic field sensor, the thin film plane is parallel to the direction 36 of the magnetic field to be measured, so that the easy axis of magnetization of Faraday element 33 is at right angles to the thin film plane and to the direction 36 of the magnetic field to be measured. The light is transmitted parallel to the thin film plane of Faraday element 33. As shown in Fig. 5, the incident light beam 37 which passes through Faraday element 33 can traverse the magnetic walls of Faraday element 33. Polarizers 32 and 34 are disposed such that the axis of polarization between them is rotated through an angle of 45 . Signal processing is carried out to ensure that when the magnetic field to be measured H 0, the output signal P 0. Measurement of a magnetic field is effected by the magnetic field sensor shown in Fig. 4 on the same principle as in the case of the magnetic field sensor shown in Fig. 1. Fig. 6 is a block diagram of another magnetic field sensor according to the invention. In this drawing, a light source 41, a polarizer 42, a Faraday element 43 in the form of a thin film, a polarizer 44 and a photoreceptor 45 are arranged in sequence. They are linked, by optical means such as optical fibres, lenses or the like not shown in the drawing . In this magnetic field sensor, the thin film plane is parallel to the direction 46 of the magnetic field to be measured, so that the axis of easy magnetization of Faraday element 43 is in the thin film plane and at right angles to the direction 46 of the magnetic field to be measured. The light is transmitted parallel into the thin film plane of Faraday element 43. Polarizers 42 and 44 are disposed such that the axis of polarization between them is rotated through an angle of 45 . Signal processing is carried out to ensure that when the magnetic field to be measured H 0, the output signal P 0. Measurement of a magnetic field is effected by the magnetic field sensor shown in Fig. 6 on the same principle as in the case of the magnetic field sensor shown in Fig. 1. In the magnetic field sensors described above, the light source used was an LED of wavelength λ 1.3µm, the polarizers were rutile TiO₂ single crystal, and the photoreceptor was a photodiode p i n PD of InGaAs. The Faraday elements used consisted of the thin films of magnet garnet of Samples 1 19 having the composition shown in the Tables 1 and 2 below Samples 1 4 for the magnetic field sensor of Fig. 1, Samples 5 9 for the magnetic field sensor of Fig. 3, Samples 10 14 for the magnetic field sensor of Fig. 4 and Samples 15 19 for the magnetic field sensor of Fig. 6 . Changes in output P were investigated by applying magnetic fields to each Faraday element in the prescribed direction. These magnetic garnet thin films were made as follows The thickness of the thin film was, for example, 40µm 400µm in the case of samples 1 9, and 200µm 700µm for samples 10 19. Conventional magnetic field sensors Fig. 7 , with a Faraday element consisting of non magnetic ZnSe single crystal film thickness 5mm such as has been mentioned in the published reports Example 1 for Comparison , and of magnetic garnet thin film of the compositions listed in the Table below Examples 2, 3 and 4 for Comparison film thickness 100µm, 100µm and 500µm, respectively , were prepared for comparison with the magnetic field sensors described above, and measurement carried out in the manner described. The Tables 1 and 2 below summarize the output, resolving power and range of magnetic field measured, of the various magnetic field sensors. As is evident from Tables 1 and 2, the magnetic field sensor of the samples 1 14 of the present invention has a high output power and an excellent resolution resolving power and it is clear that the magnetic field sensor of samples 1 14 has a greater measuring range of magnetic field than each magnetic field sensor of comparison examples 1 3. The samples 15 19 have a higher measuring sensitivity than the comparisons. Furthermore, it is clear from Figures 8 and 9 that, for the samples 1, 4, 10 and 15, the Faraday rotation changes linearly until the magnetic field saturates. Therefore, a magnetic field measurement having high accuracy is possible. Also, the results were obtained by the thin film monocrystal thickness 0.2 1mm grown using the flux method. The construction and the magnetic material of the magnetic field sensor according to the invention can be utilized as a magnetic field sensor used with the optical heterodyne phase detector Japanese Patent Disclosure Nos. 59 19875, 59 52774 , with which the magnetic field measurement having high sensitivity is possible. Figure 10 shows four curves relating to the angle of Faraday rotation for the temperature of the magnetooptic element 13. One curve shows the characteristics indicated for a Superimposed Construction Mode which is obtained by the use of magnetooptic element 13 which is constructed in layers of several thin films of magnetic garnet, such as Gl Gd