# PTR2030, a conjugal plasmid and derivatives thereof that confer phage resistance to group N streptococci

## Claims
Plasmid pTR2030, gekennzeichnet durch ein Molekularge wicht von 30,0 3,0 Megadalton, daß die folgende Empfindlichkeit gegen Restriktionsendonucleasen aufweist

## Description
The present invention relates to the plasmid pTR2030 and to derivatives thereof. More specifically, the present invention relates to the plasmid pTR2030 which carries one or more genetic determinants for phage resistance to group N streptococci and to derivatives of this plasmid which also carry at least one of the same genetic determinants. Production of cheese and cultured dairy products has long relied on the fermentation of milk by group N streptococci. Members of this group, composed of Since the filing of this application, the taxonomic name of group N streptococci has been changed to lactococci , the members of the group being redesignated as Historically, milk fermentations relied on starter cultures composed of undefined mixtures of lactic streptococci propagated without knowledge of, or protection from, bacteriophages. Natural phage contamination in these cultures established an equilibrium of evolving bacteriophages and phage resistant variants. These cultures were highly variable in day to day levels of acid production, but remained moderately active and could be used continuously in small fermentation factories. Over the past 20 years, starter culture failures due to bacteriophage infection have become prevalent throughout the dairy industry. Increasing demand for cultured milk products in recent years has necessitated increases in both production capacity and process efficiency such that larger volumes of milk are processed, cheese vats are filled repeatedly within a single day, and total processing time is shortened. This modernization of the industry concurrently increased the probability of phage contamination and further dictated the use of defined mixtures of lactic streptococci capable of uniform and rapid rates of acid production. With the selection of highly fermentative lactic streptococci and their propagation under aseptic conditions in the absence of bacteriophages , the majority of cultures now used by the industry have become highly susceptible to bacteriophage attack upon introduction into the cheese factory. To cope with bacteriophage problems a number of successful methods have been developed to minimize phage action during commercial milk fermentations. Through the use of concentrated cultures, aseptic bulk starter vessels and phage inhibitory media see for example, U.S. Patent 4,282,255 , the starter culture can be protected from bacteriophage infection prior to vat inoculation. However, phage contamination cannot be prevented following entrance into the fermentation vat. Therefore, emphasis for protection of the culture shifts to minimizing prolific phage host interactions through rotation of phage unrelated strains or use of phage resistant mutants in multiple strain starters. Although, in theory, strain rotation should minimize developing phage populations within the plant, in practice it has proved difficult to identify strains that demonstrate completely different patterns of phage sensitivity. Estimates of the total number of different, phage unrelated lactic streptococci approximate 25 strains worldwide. Considering the small number of phage unrelated strains available, the choice of strains for incorporation into rotation programs is severely limited. Similarly, few phage unrelated strains are available for construction of multiple strain starters containing composites of 4 to 6 strains. A decade ago, Sandine, W.E. et al, Several mechanisms of phage resistance in group N streptococci have been identified and appear to be plasmid associated. McKay, L.L. et al, Sanders, M.E., et al, Sanders, M.E., et al, Gonzalez, C.F. et al, The identification or creation of plasmids encoding phage resistance in group N streptococci is necessary in order to genetically engineer strains that meet industrial criteria for fermentative capabilities and long term phage resistance. The present invention provides for a plasmid which confers phage resistance to group N streptococci. Group N streptococci containing the plasmid or a derivative thereof are useful for formulating starter cultures which can be used for the production of cheese and cultured dairy products. The present invention comprises a plasmid or a derivative thereof which confers phage resistance to group N streptococci. The present invention also comprises group N streptococci containing the plasmid or derivative. The present invention further comprises starter cultures containing such streptococci. More specifically, the present invention provides the plasmid pTR2030 characterized by a molecular weight of 30.0 3.0 megadaltons, having the following sensitivity to restriction endonucleases and carrying one or more genetic determinants for phage resistance in group N streptococci lactococci and exhibiting phenotypes of Tra , Clu , Hsp and Hrp , the said plasmid being obtainable from pTR2030 carries one or more genetic determinants which impart phage resistance. Derivatives of pTR2030 are considered herein to mean any plasmid capable of replication, transcription and translation in group N streptococci lactococci which carries the phage resistance genetic determinanets of pTR2030. The invention further comprises group N streptococci which contain the plasmid pTR2030 or derivatives thereof and starter cultures containing these group N streptococci. Preferred stretptococci include strains of The present invention is directed to the plasmid pTR2030 and its derivatives which are useful for conferring phage resistance to group N streptococci. The latter are useful for formulating starter cultures for use in the production of cheese and cultured dairy products. pTR2030 and its derivatives could also be useful for conferring phage resistance to other gram positive lactic acid bacteria used in dairy and food fermentation. pTR2030 carries one or more genetic determinants which confer phage resistance. The plasmid further carries genetic determinants for conjugal transfer. This genetic determinant promotes its own transfer as well as the transfer of other non conjugative plasmids. A derivative of pTR2030 is used herein to refer to any plasmid capable of replication, transcription and translation in group N streptococci or other gram positive lactic acid bacteria which is either a pTR2030 with inserted DNA sequences, or b pTR2030 with DNA sequences deleted, or c pTR2030 with inserted and deleted DNA sequences, or d a plasmid with a significant portion of at least one of the pTR2030 genetic determinant for phage resistance inserted therein. Plasmid pTR2030 was isolated from a transconjugant of a mating of Table 1 shows the sensitivities of pTR2030 to restriction endonucleases. The sizes of the fragments produced are also shown in Table 1. Plasmid pTR2030 exhibits phenotypes of Tra , Clu , Hsp , Hrp . These phenotypes are described as follows Clu pTR2030 exhibits high frequency conjugal transfer in agar surface matings. The frequency of conjugal transfer occurs at 10 ¹ donor cell in matings between Hsp pTR2030 exhibits a heat sensitive phage resistance property when present in Hrp pTR2030 exhibits a heat resistant phage resistance property when present in Derivatives of pTR2030 include the following plasmids a plasmid pTR2030 into which DNA sequences have been inserted b plasmid pTR2030 from which DNA sequences have been deleted c plasmid pTR2030 into which DNA sequences have been inserted and from which DNA sequences have been deleted and d any plasmid into which at least one of the pTR2030 genetic determinants for phage resistance has been inserted. Additionally, a derivative of pTR2030 can include any plasmid into which any DNA sequence of pTR2030 has been inserted. It is preferred that each of these derivatives contain at least one of the pTR2030 genetic determinants for phage resistance. It is further preferred that each of these derivatives contain the pTR2030 genetic determinants for conjugal transfer. The derivatives of pTR2030 can be prepared by using techniques well known in the art. Thus, insertions and or deletions to pTR2030 can be performed using standard techniques. Many standard techniques have been described by Maniatis, T. et al, Suitable hosts for the plasmid pTR2030 or its derivetives are any microorganism in which pTR2030 or its derivatives are capable of replication. Preferred hosts are group N streptococci which include strains which are used in the production of cheese and cultured dairy products. Examples of these hosts are strains of Microorganisms containing pTR2030 or its derivatives preferably exhibit a phage resistance phenotype As a result of this property, the microorganisms with pTR2030 or its derivatives are extremely useful in the production of cheese and cultured dairy products as well as other food and dairy fermentations. The microorganisms are capable of more efficient fermentation since they are not sensitive to phages which are present or likely to appear in the fermentation vessel. Microorganisms containing pTR2030 or its derivatives are useful in formulation of starter cultures for the production of cheese and cultured dairy products. The preparation and use of starter cultures are well known in the art. Consequently, starter cultures can be formulated by using a microorganism containing pTR2030 or its derivatives in place of a microorganism currently employed. For example, a strain of The present invention will be further described by reference to the following non limiting examples. Lac Nis Plasmid pTR2030 was isolated from For use in conjugation experiments to Str For use as conjugation recipients, Lac variants of Matings were conducted between One of the transconjugants of Matings were conducted between various donor strains identified in Table 4 and a recipient strain Matings were conducted between donor strains Lac Nis Plaque assays with various Virulent phages were independently isolated from cheese plants using a starter culture comprising The starter culture activity test was a modification of that described by Heap, H.A. et al, A consecutive starter culture activity test was conducted using m12 M12 phage to determine whether or not virulent phage could be generated which was active against the While the invention has been described in connection with specific embodiments thereof, it will be understood that it is capable of further modifications. This application is intended to cover any variations, uses or adaptations of the invention following, in general, the principles of the invention and including such departures from the present disclosure as come within known and customary practice within the art to which the invention pertains.