# ANTIVIRAL COMPOUNDS

## Claims
Pharmazeutisch annehmbares Salz, Ester oder Salz eines solchen Esters von 2 Desoxy 5 äthinyluridin, wobei ein Salz ein physiologisch annehmbares Basensalz ist, ein Ester ein Carbonsäureester, in dem der Nichtcarbonylteil der Estergruppe ausgewählt ist aus gerad oder verzweigtkettigem Alkyl, Alkoxyalkyl, Aralkyl, Aryloxyalkyl und Aryl, ein Sulfonatester oder ein Mono , Di oder Triphosphatester ist, wobei eine Alkylgruppe 1 bis 18 Kohlenstoffatome enthält und eine Arylgruppe eine Phenylgruppe umfaßt, verschieden von den 5 Mono und 3 ,5 Ditoluoylestern von 2 Desoxy 5 äthinyluridin.

## Description
The present invention relates to the use of a pyrimidine, or physiologically acceptable salt thereof, in the treatment of certain DNA virus diseases. Cytomegalovirus CMV forms a class of DNA viruses belonging to the family Herpesviridae. In common with the herpes viruses, infection with CMV leads to a lifelong association of virus and host and, following a primary infection, virus may be shed for a number of years. Infection may be acquired in infancy or early adulthood and, in the foetus, intra uterine infection is probably the commonest form of infection, but up to 90 of congenital infections are asymptomatic at birth. Primary infection of the mother during pregnancy is generally considered to pose the greatest risk to the unborn child, whereas in reactivation the foetal infections are usually clinically silent. Clinical effects range from death and gross disease microcephaly, hepatosplenomegaly, jaundice, mental retardation through failure to thrive, susceptibility to chest and ear infections to a lack of any obvious ill effect. In young adults infection may well go unnoticed or manifest as a glandular fever like disease resulting from close physical contact. In addition to primary infections, equally serious infections may occur due to reactivation of the dormant virus in immuno compromised patients. Such infections result in increased morbidity and fatality from retinitis, pneumonitis and gastrointestinal disease. Such patients may be immuno compromised either as a result of therapy or of disease. Of the former, the worst infections are seen in bone marrow transplant and kidney transplant patients. Patients immuno compromised through disease are now seen in increasing numbers with the advent of AIDS, a condition which naturally destroys the immune system, leaving the victim vulnerable to infections which would not otherwise be dangerous. CMV infection in AIDS patients is a predominant cause of morbidity as, in 80 of the adult population, it is present in a latent form and can be re activated in immuno compromised patents. In Viral Infections or Humans 2nd Ed., Ed., Evans, A.S. 1982 Plenum Publishing Corporation, New York , Chapter 8 describes in some detail the aetiology of CMV infections. To date there is no recognised therapy for CMV disease. CMV immunoglobulin has been used with some success prophylactically and is now marketed. In patients who are only slightly immunosuppressed, for example renal transplant patients, prophylaxis or prompt therapy with human interferon or acyclovir has resulted in a clinical response. Varicella zoster virus VZV , another virus of the herpes family, causes chicken pox, pneumonitis, encephalitis, intravascular coagulopathy, disseminated zoster, hepatitis, shingles and keratitis. As with CMV infections, the therapeutic treatment of VZV infections has proved difficult. Attention has focussed on nucleoside analogues for the treatment of viral infections. One compound, originally of interest as a useful intermediate, is 2 deoxy 5 ethynyluridine, the synthesis of which is disclosed by Barr It has now surprisingly been found that salts, esters, and salts of such esters of 2 deoxy 5 ethynyluridine have very potent activity against certain DNA viruses other than those referred to above. Thus in a first aspect of the present invention, there is provided a pharmaceutically acceptable salt, ester, or salt of such ester, of 2 deoxy 5 ethynyluridine wherein a salt is a physiologically acceptable base salt, an ester is a carboxylic acid ester in which the non carbonyl moiety of the ester grouping is selected from straight or branched chain alkyl, alkoxyalkyl e.g. methoxymethyl , aralkyl e.g. benzyl , aryloxyalkyl e.g. phenoxymethyl , aryl e.g. phenyl optionally substituted by halogen, C₁ ₄ alkyl or C₁ ₄ alkoxy sulphonate esters such as alkyl or aralkylsulphonyl e.g. methanesulphonyl and mono , di or tri phosphate esters. With regard to the above described esters, unless otherwise specified, any alkyl moieties present in such esters advantageously contain 1 to 18 carbon atoms, particularly 1 to 4 carbon atoms. Any aryl moiety present in such esters advantageously comprises a phenyl group. Any reference to any of the above compounds also includes a reference to a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof. Salts of 2 deoxy 5 ethynyluridine which may be conveniently used in therapy include physiologically acceptable base salts, eg derived from an appropriate base, such as alkali metal e.g. sodium , alkaline earth metal e.g. magnesium salts, ammonium and NX 4 wherein X is C₁ ₄ alkyl . Particularly preferred examples of novel derivatives include the pharmaceutically acceptable esters, eg the mono and di pivalate esters, the 3 ,5 diesters and pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof and also the pharmaceutically acceptable salts, eg the mono sodium salt of 2 deoxy 5 ethynyluridine. In a further, preferred aspect of the present invention, there is provided the use of a salt, ester or salt of such ester of 2 deoxy 5 ethynyluridine in the manufacture of a medicament for the treatment of prophylaxis of human viral infections caused by CMV or VZV. Examples of the clinical conditions caused by CMV and VZV infections which may be treated in accordance with the invention include those referred to above. A pharmaceutically acceptable salt, ester or salt of such ester of 2 deoxy 5 ethynyluridine hereafter collectively referred to as the active ingredients may be administered by any route appropriate to the condition to be treated, suitable routes including oral, rectal, nasal, topical including buccal and sublingual , vaginal and parenteral including subcutaneous, intramuscular, intravenous, intradermal, intrathecal and epidural . It will be appreciated that the preferred route may vary with, for example, the condition of the recipient. For each of the above indicated utilities and indications the amount required of an active ingredient as above defined will depend upon a number of factors including the severity of the condition to be treated and the identity of the recipient and will ultimately be at the discretion of the attendant physician. In general, however, for each of these utilities and indications, a suitable, effective dose will be in the range 0.1 to 250 mg per kilogram body weight of recipient per day, preferably in the range 1 to 100 mg per kilogram body weight per day and most preferably in the range 5 to 20 mg per kilogram body weight per day an optimum dose is about 15 mg per kilogram body weight per day unless otherwise indicated all weights of active ingredient are calculated as 2 deoxy 5 ethynyluridine for salts and esters thereof the figures would be increased proportionately. The desired dose is preferably presented as two, three, four or more sub doses administered at appropriate intervals throughout the day. These sub doses may be adminstered in unit dosage forms, for example, containing 10 to 1000 mg, preferably 20 to 500 mg and most preferably 100 to 400 mg of active ingredient per unit dosage form. While it is possible for the active ingredients to be administered alone it is preferable to present them as pharmaceutical formulations. The formulations of the present invention comprise at least one active ingredient, as above defined, together with one or more acceptable carriers thereof and optionally other therapeutic ingredients. The carrier s must be acceptable in the sense of being compatible with the other ingredients of the formulation and not deleterious to the recipients thereof. The formulations include those suitable for oral, rectal, nasal, topical including buccal and sublingual , vaginal or parenteral including subcutaneous, intramuscular, intravenous, intradermal, intrathecal and epidural administration. The formulations may conveniently be presented in unit dosage form and may be prepared by any of the methods well known in the art of pharmacy. Such methods include the step of bringing into association the active ingredient with the carrier which constitutes one or more accessory ingredients. In general the formulations are prepared by uniformly and intimately bringing into association the active ingredient with liquid carriers or finely divided solid carriers or both, and then, if necessary, shaping the product. Formulations of the present invention suitable for oral administration may be presented as discrete units such as capsules, cachets or tablets each containing a predetermined amount of the active ingredient as a powder or granules as a solution or a suspension in an aqueous liquid or a non aqueous liquid or as an oil in water liquid emulsion or a water in oil liquid emulsion. The active ingredient may also be presented as a bolus, electuary or paste. A tablet may be made by compression or moulding, optionally with one or more accessory ingredients. Compressed tablets may be prepared by compressing in a suitable machine the active ingredient in a free flowing form such as a powder or granules, optionally mixed with a binder e.g. povidone, gelatin, hydroxypropylmethyl cellulose , lubricant, inert diluent, preservative, disintegrant e.g. sodium starch glycollate, cross linked povidone, cross linked sodium carboxymethyl cellulose , surface active or dispersing agent. Moulded tablets may be made by moulding in a suitable machine a mixture of the powdered compound moistened with an inert liquid diluent. The tablets may optionally be coated or scored and may be formulated so as to provide slow or controlled release of the active ingredient therein using, for example, hydroxypropylmethylcellulose in varying proportions to provide the desired release profile. For infections of the eye or other external tissues, e.g., mouth and skin, the formulations are preferably applied as a topical ointment or cream containing the active ingredient in an amount of, for example, 0.075 to 20 w w, preferably 0.2 to 15 w w and most preferably 0.5 to 10 w w. When formulated in an ointment, the active ingredients may be employed with either a paraffinic or a water miscible ointment base. Alternatively, the active ingredients may be formulated in a cream with an oil in water cream base. If desired, the aqueous phase of the cream base may include, for example, at least 30 w w of a polyhydric alcohol, i.e. an alcohol having two or more hydroxyl groups such as propylene glycol, butane 1,3 diol, mannitol, sorbitol, glycerol and polyethylene glycol and mixtures thereof. The topical formulations may desirably include a compound which enhances absorption or penetration of the active ingredient through the skin or other affected areas. Example of such dermal penetration enhancers include dimethylsulphoxide and related analogues. The oily phase of the emulsions of this invention may be constituted from known ingredients in a known manner. While the phase may comprise merely an emulsifier otherwise known as an emulgent , it desirably comprises a mixture of at least one emulsifier with a fat or an oil or with both a fat and an oil. Preferably, a hydrophilic emulsifier is included together with a lipophilic emulsifier which acts as a stabilizer. It is also preferred to include both an oil and a fat. Together, the emulsifier s with or without stabilizer s make up the so called emulsifying wax, and the wax together with the oil and or fat make up the so called emulsifying ointment base which forms the oily dispersed phase of the cream formulations. Emulgents and emulsion stabilizers suitable for use in the formulation of the present invention include Tween 60 , Span 80 , cetostearyl alcohol, myristyl alcohol, glyceryl mono stearate and sodium lauryl sulphate. The choice of suitable oils or fats for the formulation is based on achieving the desired cosmetic properties, since the solubility of the active compound in most oils likely to be used in pharmaceutical emulsion formulations is very low. Thus the cream should preferably be a non greasy, non staining and washable product with suitable consistency to avoid leakage from tubes or other containers. Straight or branched chain, mono or dibasic alkyl esters such as di isoadipate, isocetyl stearate, propylene glycol diester of coconut fatty acids, isopropyl myristate, decyl oleate, isopropyl palmitate, butyl stearate, 2 ethlhexyl palmitate or a blend of branched chain esters known as Crodamol CAP may be used, the last three being preferrred esters. These may be used alone or in combination depending on the properties required. Alternatively, high melting point lipids such as white soft paraffin and or liquid paraffin or other mineral oils can be used. Formulations suitable for topical administration to the eye also include eye drops wherein the active ingredient is dissolved or suspended in a suitable carrier, especially an aqueous solvent for the active ingredient. The active ingredient is preferably present in such formulations in a concentration of 0.5 to 20 , advantageously 0.5 to 10 particularly about 1.5 w w. Formulations suitable for topical administration in the mouth include lozenges comprising the active ingredient in a flavoured basis, usually sucrose and acacia or tragacanth pastilles comprising the active ingredient in an inert basis such as gelatin and glycerin, or sucrose and acacia and mouth washes comprising the active ingredient in a suitable liquid carrier. Formulations for rectal administration may be presented as a suppository with a suitable base comprising for example cocoa butter or a salicylate. Formulations suitable for nasal administration wherein the carrier is a solid include a coarse powder having a particle size for example in the range 20 to 500 microns which is administered in the manner in which snuff is taken, i.e. by rapid inhalation through the nasal passage from a container of the powder held close up to the nose. Suitable formulations wherein the carrier is a liquid, for administration as for example a nasal spray or as nasal drops, include aqueous or oily solutions of the active ingredient. Formulations suitable for vaginal administration may be presented as pessaries, tampons, creams, gels, pastes, foams or spray formulations containing in addition to the active ingredient such carriers as are known in the art to be appropriate. Formulations suitable for parenteral administration include aqueous and non aqueous sterile injection solutions which may contain anti oxidants, buffers, bacteriostats and solutes which render the formulation isotonic with the blood of the intended recipient and aqueous and non aqueous sterile suspensions which may include suspending agents and thickening agents. The formulations may be presented in unit dose or multi dose containers, for example sealed ampoules and vials, and may be stored in a freeze dried lyophilized condition requiring only the addition of the sterile liquid carrier, for example water for injections, immediately prior to use. Extemporaneous injection solutions and suspensions may be prepared from sterile powders, granules and tablets of the kind previously described. Preferred unit dosage formulations are those containing a daily dose or unit daily sub dose, as herein above recited, or an appropriate fraction thereof, of an active ingredient. It should be understood that in addition to the ingredients particularly mentioned above the formulations of this invention may include other agents conventional in the art having regard to the type of formulation in question, for example those suitable for oral administration may include flavouring agents. The administered ingredients may also be used in therapy in conjunction with other medicaments such as 9 2 hydroxy 1 hydroxymethyl ethoxy methyl guanine, 9 2 hydroxyethoxymethyl guanine acyclovir , 2 amino 9 2 hydroxyethoxymethyl purine, interferon, e.g., α interferon, interleukin II, and phosphonoformate Foscarnet or in conjunction with other immune modulating therapy including bone marrow or lymphocyte transplants or medications such as levamisol or thymosin which serve to increase lymphocyte numbers and or function as is appropriate. The pharmaceutically acceptable salts, esters or salts or such esters of 2 deoxy 5 ethynyluridine may be prepared by any of the methods known in the art for the preparation of the same or similar compounds e.g. see UK Patent Specification No. 1 601 020, or Robins M.J., and Barr, P.J., J.Org. Chem. 1983 The present invention also provides a process for the preparation or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt, ester, salt of such ester of 2 deoxy 5 ethynyluridine, comprising either treatment of 2 deoxy 5 ethynyluridine with an appropriate esterifying or transesterifying agent to form an ester for example, by treatment of 2 deoxy 5 ethynyluridine with an appropriate acid halide e.g. chloride or anhydride in the presence of base, conveniently pyridine, which may also be used as the solvent or treatment The following Examples illustrate the present invention. To a stirred suspension of 2 deoxy 3 ,5 di O The title compound of A 5.87g, 0.01moles was added to a solution of sodium 0.276g, 0.012moles in dry methanol 100ml and stirred at room temperature for 2 days. The solution was then neutralised with Amberlite H resin, the mixture filtered, the resin washed with methanol and the filtrate and washing evaporated. The crude solid was recrystallised from methanol with de colourising charcoal to give a first crop of the title compound 1.38g as pale, brown crystals. Concentration of the mother liquor afforded a second crop which was also recrystallised from methanol 0.65g . The total yield was thus 2.03g 80.5 . M.p. 175 C. Pure by NMR and tlc 5 , 1 9, MeOH CH₂Cl₂ . Pivaloyl chloride 0.31ml, 2.56mmoles was added to a cooled, stirred solution of 2 deoxy 5 ethynyluridine 0.5g, 1.98mmols in dry pyridine 5ml and stirring was maintained at room temperature for 3 hours. TLC in CH₂Cl₂ MeOH 19 1 revealed complete reaction. The mixture was poured onto ice water, methylene chloride added, the organic layer separated and washed with water, dried with sodium sulphate and evaporated to dryness. The residue was chromatographed on silica gel eluted with CH₂Cl₂ MeOH. The first product eluted was triturated with hexane to give 2 Deoxy 3 ,5 di The second product eluted was triturated with hexane to give 2 deoxy 5 ethynyl 5 O pivaloyl uridine. M.p. 64 66 C. NMR δCDCl₃ 8.65 1H,bs,NH , 7.8 1H,s,H 6 , 6.2 1H,dd,H 1 , 5.2 1H,m,H 3 , 4.5 4.2 3H,m,H 4 and H 5 , 3.18 1H,s, acetylenic H , 2.6 1H,m, H 2 , 2.1 1H,m, H 2 , 1.2 ppm 18H,d,tBu H . To a stirred solution of 2 deoxy 5 ethynyluridine 0.5g, 2mmoles in dry pyridine 8ml at 0 C was added acetic anhydride 0.6g, 6mmols and stirring maintained at room temperature overnight. The solvent was evaporated To a stirred solution of 2 deoxy 5 ethynyluridine in dry pyridine at 0 C was added methanesulphonylchloride 3.5 equivalents and the whole was stirred at room temperature for 3hrs. The solution was added to iced water and the solid filtered off. This was washed with water and digested in hot ethanol to give the title compound in 93 yield. M.p. 184 186 C. NMR δ d₆DMSO 11.75 1H, d, NH , 8.05 1H,s, H 6 , 6.15 1H, bt, H 1 5.3 1H, m, H 3 , 4.6 4.3 3H,m, H 4 ,8H 5 , 3.35 6H, s, CH₃SO₂ , 3.25 1H,s, acetylenic H , 2.7 2.4 ppm 2H,m,H 2 . In the following Examples 5 9 and 11 16 the title compounds were prepared by an analogous manner to that described in Example 2. M.p. 320 C δ CDCl₃ 8.2 1H, bs, NH , 8.0 1H,s,H 6 , 6.25 1H,t,H 1 , 4.6 4.1 5H,m,H 3 ,H 5 and OH 3 , 3.17 1H,s,acetylenic H , 2.52 1H,m,H 2 ,2.21 1H,m,H 2 , 1.7 1H,m, cyclopropyl CH , 1.15 0.9 ppm 4H,m,cyclopropyl CH₂ . M.p. 55 C. NMR δCDCl₃ 8.2 1H,bs,NH , 7.97 1H,s,H 6 ,6.3 1H, dd, H 1 , 5.26 1H,m,H 3 , 4.4 4.25 3H,m,H 4 and H 5 3.18 1H,s, acetylenic H , 2.6 1H,m,H 2 , 2.2 1H,m, H 2 1.62 2H, m, cyclopropyl CH , 1.15 0.8 ppm 8H, m, cyclopropyl CH₂ . M.p. 141 142 C NMR δ CDCl₃ 8.1 1H,bs,NH ,7.93 1H,s,H 6 , 6.22 1H,t,H 1 ,4.55 4.2 3H,m,H 3 and H 5 , 4.15 1H,m,H 4 , 3.19 1H,s, acetylenic H , 2.6 2.35 1H,m, H 2 , 2.3 2.0 1H,m,H 2 , 1.7 1.15 12H,m, octanoyl CH₂ , 0.87 ppm 3H,m,octanoyl CH₃ M.p. 175 176 C NMR δ d₆DMSO 11.65 1H, bs,NH , 8.3 7.3 5H,m, aromatic Hs , 8.0 1H,s,H 6 ,6.13 1H,t,H 1 , 5.45 1H,bs,OH 3 , 4.8 4.25 3H,m, H 3 and H 5 ,4.25 3.9 2H,m,H 4 and acetylenic H , 2.4 2.1 ppm 2H, m, H 2 . M.p. 192 194 C NMR δ CDCL₃ 8.4 1H,bs,NH ,8.15 7.4 5H,m,aromatic Hs , 7.92 1H,s,H 6 ,6.38 1H,dd,H 1 ,5.62 1H,m,H 3 , 4.9 4.63 2H,m,H 5 , 4.59 1H,m,H 4 , 3.0 1H,s,acetylenic H 2.86 2.7 1H,m,H 2 , 2.4 2.2 ppm 1H,m,H 2 . To a stirred solution of 2 deoxy 5 benzoyl 5 ethynyluridine 1.58g, 4.44ml in dry pyridine 15ml at 0 C was added methanesulphonyl chloride 0.52ml, 1.5 equivalents . This was left at 0 C for 16 hours then poured onto ice water. The pale yellow gum obtained was separated by decanting the aqueous supernatent layer, and taken up in dichloromethane. The solution was washed with water, dried MgSO₄ and evaporated. The residue was triturated with ether to give the title compound. 1.35g 73 M.p. decomposed above 95 C NMR δ CDCl₃ 8.95 1H,s,NH , 7.7 1H,s,H 6 , 7.65 7.1 5H, dd, aromatic H s , 6.25 1H,t,H 1 , 5.4 1H,m,H 3 , 4.65 3H,m,H 4 and H 5 , 3.1 3H,s,CH₃ , 3.05 1H,s, acetylenic H , 2.35 ppm 2H,m,H 2 . M.p. 180 2 C NMR δ d₆DMSO 11.65 1H,s,NH , 7.95 1H,s,H6 , 7.9 7.25 4H, dd, aromatic H s , 6.1 1H,t,H 1 , 5.4 1H m,H 3 , 4.5 2H,m,H 5 , 4.3 1H, bs, OH , 4.1 1H,m,H 4 , 4.0 1H,s, acetylenic H , 2.35 3H,s,CH₃ , 2.2 ppm 2H,m, H 2 . M.p. 200 202 C NMR δCDCl₃ 8.6 1H,s,NH , 79 1H,s,H 6 , 8.0 7.1 8H,H, aromatic H s 6.35 1H,t,H 1 , 5.1 1H,m,H 3 , 4.7 2H,m,H 5 , 4.5 1H,m,H 4 3.0 1H,s, acetylenic H , 3.3 2.1 2H,m,H 2 , 2.4 3H,s,CH₃ , 2.38 ppm 3H,s,CH₃ . M.p. 177 179 C NMR δ d₆DMSO 11.6 1H,s,NH , 7.9 1H,s,H 6 ,8.0 7.0 4H,dd,aromatic H s 6.1 1H,t,H 1 , 5.4 1H,m,H 3 , 4.5 2H,m,H 5 , 4.35 1H, bs, 3 OH , 4.1 1H,m,H 4 , 4.05 1H,s,acetylenic H , 3.7 3H,s,OCH₃ , 2.25 ppm 2H,m,H 2 . M.p. 211 213 C NMR δ d₆DSMO 11.7 1H,s,NH , 8.05 1H,s,H 6 , 8.0 6.95 8H,m, aromatic H s , 6.2 1H,t, H 1 , 5.55 1H,m,H 3 , 4.5 3H,m,H 4 and H 5 , 4.1 1H, s, acetylenic H , 2.6 ppm 2H,m,H 2 . M.p. 73 75 C NMR δ d₆DMSO 11.65 1H,bs,NH , 7.93 1H,s,H 6 , 8.0 7.5 4H,m, aromatic H s , 6.1 1H,t,H 1 , 5.45 1H,bs, 3 OH ,4.6 4.4 2H,m,H 5 , 4.35 1H,m,H 3 , 4.1 1H,m,H 4 , 4.0 1H,s, acetylenic H , 2.4 2.1 ppm 2H,m,H 2 . M.p. 138 139 C NMR δCDCl₃ 8.67 1H,bs, NH ,8.1 7.3 8H,m, aromatic H s , 7.8 1H,s,H 6 ,6.33 1H,dd,H 1 , 5.6 1H,m,H 3 ,4.75 2H,m,H 5 ,4.57 1H,q, H 4 , 3.06 1H,s,acetylenic H , 2.9 2.7 1H,m,H 2 , 2.45 2.2ppm 1H,m,H 2 . To an aqueous solution of 2 deoxy 5 ethynyluridine 0.35g, 1.4mmoles was added an aqueous solution of sodium hydroxide 0.55g, 1.4mmoles . The solution was freeze dried twice and dried over P₂O₅ at 100 C overnight in a drying pistol to yield the title compound as a hygroscopic, granular solid. Tablets were prepared from the foregoing ingredients by wet granulation followed by compression. The following formulations A and B were prepared by wet granulation of the ingredients with a solution of povidone, followed by addition of magnesium stearate and compression. The following formulations, D and E, were prepared by direct compression of the admixed ingredients. The lactose used in formulation E was of the direct compression type Dairy Crest Zeparox . The formulation was prepared by wet granulation of the ingredients below with a solution of povidone followed by the addition of magnesium stearate and compression. Drug release took place over a period of about 6 8 hours and was complete after 12 hours. A capsule formulation was prepared by admixing the ingredients of Formulation D in Example 20 above and filling into a two part hard gelatin capsule. Formulation B Capsules were prepared by melting the Macrogol 4000 BP, dispersing the active ingredient in the melt and filling the melt into a two part hard gelatin capsule. Capsules were prepared by dispersing the active ingredient in the lecithin and arachis oil and filling the dispersion into soft, elastic gelatin capsules. The following controlled release capsule formulation was prepared by extruding ingredients a, b and c using an extruder, followed by spheronisation of the extrudate and drying. The dried pellets were then coated with release controlling membrane d and filled into a two piece, hard gelatin capsule. The active ingredient was dissolved in most of the phosphate buffer 35 40 C , then made up to volume and filtered through a sterile micropore filter into a sterile 10ml amber glass vial type 1 and sealed with sterile closures and overseals. The active ingredient was dissolved in the glycofurol. The benzyl alcohol was then added and dissolved, and water added to 3 ml. The mixture was then filtered through a sterile micropore filter and sealed in sterile 3 ml amber glass vials type 1 . The sodium benzoate was dissolved in a portion of the purified water and the sorbitol solution added. The active ingredient was added and dispersed. In the glycerol was dispersed the thickener dispersible cellulose . The two dispersions were mixed and made up to the required volume with the purified water. Further thickening was achieved as required by extra shearing of the suspension. One fifth of the Witepsol H15 was melted in a steam jacketed pan at 45 C maximum. The active ingredient was sifted through a 200µm sieve and added to the molten base with mixing, using a silverson fitted with a cutting head, until a smooth dispersion was achieved. Maintaining the mixture at 45 C, the remaining Witepsol H15 was added to the suspension and stired to ensure a homogenous mix. The entire suspension was passed through a 250µm stainless steel screen and, with continuous stirring, was allowed to cool to 40 C. At a temperature of 38 C to 40 C 2.02g of the mixture was filled into suitable plastic moulds. The suppositories were allowed to cool to room temperature. The above ingredients were mixed directly and pessaries prepared by direct compression of the resulting mixture. Human cytomegalovirus HCMV was assayed in monolayers of either MRC5 cells human embryonic lung or Detroit 532 cells human foreskin fibroblasts in multiwell trays. Activity of compounds was determined in the plaque reduction assay, in which a cell monolayer was infected with a suspension of HCMV, and then overlaid with nutrient agarose in the form of a gel to ensure that there was no spread of virus throughout the culture. A range of concentrations of compound of known molarity was incorporated in the nutrient agarose overlay. Plaque numbers at each concentration were expressed as percentages of the control and a dose response curve was drawn. From this curve the 50 inhibitory concentration IC₅₀ was estimated. Varicella zoster virus VZV was assayed in MRC5 cells by a similar method to that for HCMV with the omission of the agarose overlay. Herpes simplex type 1 HSV1 was assayed in Vero cells in a similar method to that described for the HCMV assay. Cell toxicity was assessed in a cell growth inhibition assay. Subconfluent cultures of Vero cells grown on 96 well microtiter dishes were exposed to different dilutions of drug, and cell viability determined daily on replicate cultures using uptake of a tetrazolium dye MTT . The concentration required for a 50 inhibition of cell viability at 96 hours is termed CCID₅₀. Results are shown in Table 1.