# PROCESS FOR ENHANCING THE ACTIVITY OF PLANT PROTECTING AGENTS BY USING CYCLODEXTRIN

## Claims
Patentansprüche für die Vertragsstaaten CH, DE, FR, SB, IT, LI, NL

## Description
This invention relates to new and improved plant protecting agents, particularly fungicidal compositions and a method for the use thereof. Recently several articles and patents have been published relating to the use of cyclodextrin in plant protecting formulations Növényvédelem, The complex formation of 2 chloromethane phosphonic acid with cyclodextrin results in the fact that on contacting with plant tissue the ethylene release is a long lasting process and this is more efficient than the delivery of ethylene from a very promptly acting active ingredient Acta Chim. Acad. Sci. Hung. It was not aforeseen on the basis of prior art that cyclodextrin would synergize the efficiency of fungicides. The object of the present invention is to provide fungicidal compositions comprising cyclodextrin in which cyclodextrin synergizes the activity of known fungicidal active ingredients to a significant extent. Thus identical fungicidal active ingredient dosage results in a higher activity or the same fungicidal effect can be achieved by using a lower dose of the active ingredient and this is a considerable advantage from the point of view of both economy and the safety of environment. According to an aspect of the present invention there is provided a fungicidal plant protecting composition comprising 3 90 by weight of a fungicide in admixture with 1 90 by weight of cyclodextrin and optionally with usual auxiliary agents, the ratio of the fungicide and cyclodextrin being greater than 1 4 and at most 90 1. The composition according to the present invention may preferably comprise the following fungicides. As cyclodextrin α , β and or γ cyclodextrin may be used. According to a preferably embodiment of the present invention the ratio of the above active ingredients and cyclodextrin may be as follows According to a further aspect of the present invention there is provided a fungicidal method of treatment which comprises applying onto the plants or the other surface to be treated a composition according to the present invention, preferably at a rate of 0.5 6 kg ha, particularly 1.2 1.6 kg ha. The present invention is based on the recognition that known fungicidal active ingredients and cyclodextrin exhibit a synergistic effect which is a result of one or two of the following factors The fungistatical activity of cyclodextrins has never been disclosed in prior art. The said activity may be proved by the following test Agar nutrient media comprising 0.1 _ 0.2 _ 0.5 _ 1.0 _ 2.0 _ 5.0 _ 10.0 _ 20.0 _ 100.0 _200.0 _ 400.0 _ 800.0 _ 1200.0 _ 1500.0 _ 2000.0 _3000.0 µg β cyclodextrin ml, respectively, are prepared in Petri dishes. Mycelium discs are cut out from surface cultures of three test fungi and are placed onto the agar nutrient media in the Petri dishes. Incubation is carried out in a thermostate whereupon the increase of the diameter of the colonies is determined and compared to that of the control. The morphology of the colonies and the diffusion of the dye substance produced by the fungi into the nutrient medium are evaluated as well. The results are summarized in Table 1. In a dose range of 0.1 20 µg ml the effect of β cyclodextrin is of a qualitative character. The fungistatical effect of cyclodextrin manifests itself in the changed morphology, structure and colour of the colonies and in the amount of the dyestuff penetrated into the nutrient medium. However at higher dose range the effect of cyclodextrin is already of a quantitative nature, thus the decrease of the diameter of the colonies can be measured and the amount of the biomass formed is reduced to a rate which can be evaluated Table 1 . A study of the surfacial cultures show that β cycloadextrin inhibits the formation of the propagative organs. The main feature of the solubility increasing effect of cyclodextrin due to the formation of inclusion complexes resides in the fact that in aqueous solution beside the molecularly dispersed i.e. actually dissolved active ingredient and the mycelia consisting of some or a lot of molecules microcrystal, microdrop , the cyclodextrin active ingredient inclusion complex being also in molecularly dispersed form appears, too. Since the said system is characterised by an unusually dynamical equilibrium within 10 ⁸ sec ¹ the active ingredient incorporated into the inclusion complex acts in the same way from the point of view of absorption as the free dissolved active ingredient. Thus the concentration of molecularly dispersed molecules being suitable for direct absorption may be significantly increased with the aid of cyclodextrins and this accelerates the rate of absorption, i.e. the same efficiency can be achieved by using a lower active ingredient dose. The positive effect of cyclodextrine on the solubility of active ingredients is shown on the example of benomyl. The said active ingredient 1 butylcarbamoyl benzimidazole 2 methyl carbamate is a systemic fungicide, which is poorly soluble in water and when dissolved in water rapidly decomposes to methyl benzimidazole carbamate having also a fungicidal effect but being still less soluble in water. On shaking benomyl and benomyl cyclodextrin, respectively, in water at 25 C the solubility data summarized in Table 2 are obtained. Benomyl and benomyl β cyclodextrin, respectively, are shaken in water at 25 C, the samples are filtered and the dissolved benomyl contents of the filtrates are determined by UV spectrophotometry . Benomyl is put on the market under the commercial name Fundazol 50 WP benomyl active ingredient content 50 . In Table 3 the solubility data of benomyl, a mixture of benomyl and cyclodextrin, Fundazol 50 WP, and a mixture of Fundazol 50 WP and cyclodextrin are shown. In each experiment 3000 µg ml of the test substance are weighed in and shaken at 25 C. Benomyl is a 100 active ingredient the bénomul content of the benomyl cyclodextrin mixture amounts to 17.3 the benomyl content of Fundazol 50 WP is 50 the benomyl content of the mixture of Fundazol 50 WP and cyclodextrin amounts to 8.65 . It appears from Table 3 that as a result of the formulation the solubility of benomyl is increased four times. Cyclodextrin per se causes a further 1.5 2 fold increase of the solubility of both original benomyl and formulated Fundazol 50 WP. Taking into consideration that in the mixtures comprising cyclodextrin the amount of benomyl active ingredient is considerably lower and at the same time in aqueous solution the concentration of benomyl being responsible for the actual biological effect became significantly higher, it was aforeseen that this had to be manifested in the biological effect, too. The solubility of benomyl from various materials comprising benomyl was determined by shaking in water at 25 C. 2000 µg ml of solid material are weighed in which corresponds to the following amounts of benomyl The following tests substantiate the surprising synergism between known fungicides and β cyclodextrin. Stable, highly dispersed aqueous suspensions of the test materials are added to agar nutrient media in the desired concentration 0.1 200 µg ml , whereupon the nutrient media are poured into Petri dishes Mycelium discs are cut out from the surfacial cultures of the test fungi and the discs are placed into the Petri dishes containing the test materials. Incubation is carried out in thermostate whereupon the increase of the diameter of the colonies is measured and and compared to that of the control. The tests are carried out in three replicates. In Table 4 the effect of the fungicide Fundazol 50 WP benomyl content 50 and a mixture of Fundazol 50 WP 10 of β cyclodextrin is disclosed. The results clearly prove the synergistic activity of β cyclodextrin the increased activity is particularly significant against Botrytis cinerea and Monilia fructigena. Metomeclan is a contact fungicide insoluble in water 1 3,5 dichlorophenyl 3 methoxymethyl pyrrolidine 2,5 dione . The activity of metomeclan is significantly increased by the addition of cyclodextrin. In Table 5 the fungicidal effect of metomeclan and a mixture of metomeclan 10 of β CD is set forth. In a further series of experiments it is tested whether known linear dextrins obtained by thermal, enzymatic or acidic decomposition of starch exhibit similar effects as cyclodextrins. The said tests show unambiguously that only cyclodextrins possess the above fungicidal synergizing activity. As a result of the synergizing effect of cyclodextrins the dosage of known and generally used fungicidal active ingredients can be significantly decreased under achieving identical or even increased fungicidal effect and this decreases the costs involved with the active ingredients and reduces the risks of environmental pollution as well. Further details of the present invention are to be found in the following Examples without limiting the scope of protection to the said Examples. Benomyl is put on the market as spray in the form of a wettable powder having an active ingredient content of 50 under the commercial name Fundazol 50 WP. A product having the same activity but containing a smaller amount of active ingredient is prepared as follows 35 kg of benomyl pre micronized in an air flow mill and 15 kg of crystalline β cyclodextrin moisture content 13 also pre micronized in an air flow mill are admixed with 40 kg of precipitated calcium carbonate, 5 kg of sulfide waste powder and 5 kg of an anionic tenside containing 50 of water preferably Genapol PGM, pre heated to 50 C in a homogenizer. The homogenized material is dried, micronized in order to separate the particles stocked together and finally packed. One proceeds according to Example 1 i.e. the components are micronized, homogenized, dried and re micronized. The composition is as follows One proceeds according to Example 1. The composition is as follows The Abem active ingredient is dissolved in hydrochloric acid under heating, whereupon it is neutralized with an emulsion consisting of a mixture of ammonium hydroxide, paraffine oil and β cyclodextrine. The suspension is stabilized with tensides in a manner known per se. The seed treating agent has the following composition