# A seal having one s signature engraved thereon.

## Abstract
A seal comprising a signature on one end face, wherein the signature is previously written on a sheet of transparent paper having a size sufficient to allow the signer to sign with ease.

## Claims
1. A seal comprising a shank portion having an end face flatly cut, and one s signature engraved on the end face, wherein the signature is previously written on a sheet of transparent paper having a size sufficient to allow the signer to sign in his usual manner.

## Description
The present invention relates to a seal on which one s signature is engraved. Seals or stamps are known and widely used, which have one s full names or initials in ordinary letters, such as block letters, or special ornamental letters. These seals are convenient when no authenticity is required. In Japan one s seal impression is registered at a local ward office, and when necessary, a certificate of seal impression can be obtained by paying a prescribed official fee to the office. The certified seal impression is accepted as authentic, whereby the bearer is identified to be the person eligible for the matter. In the case of foreign residents, who have no practice of authentic seal, must register their fingerprints at the local ward office. Recently, however, this has become the focus of criticism for contempt of human dignity, and developed into a political problem between the local governments and foreign residents living in the wards. The problem with the known seals is that the seal impression is represented by ordinary letters, which can be copied by anybody. However, there are many cases in which the seal impression must be authenticated, such as when a contract is concluded, or when an estate is sold. Modern society needs quick transaction, and it will be against this modern requirement to obtain a certificate of seal impression from the ward office at the requester s appearance or his agent s appearance at the office. In western societies a signature is used for proving one s identity. However, if a stamp bearing one s signature can be used with the same legal effect as that of the signature, it will be convenient, and serve the purpose of quick transaction without losing security. The present invention aims at solving the incon venience of the known seals bearing one s names in ordinary letters, and has for its object to provide a seal having one s authentic signature, thereby eliminating the ne cessity of registering one s seal impression at a local governmental office and obtaining a certificate thereof from there. Other objects and advantages of the present invention will become apparent from the detailed description given hereinafter it should be understood, however, that the detailed description and specific embodiment are given by way of illustration only, since various changes and modi fications within the spirit and scope of the invention will become apparent to those skilled in the art from this detailed description. According to the present invention, there is provided a seal which comprises one s signature on one end face, wherein the signature is previously written on a sheet of transparent paper having a size sufficient to allow the signer to sign with ease. The numeral reference 1 denotes a seal having its one end 2 cut flatly, which provides a surface allowing of engraving a seal impression thereon. The mode or style of the impression is different from person to person unlike the one produced in a known manner with ordinary block or steroptyped letters. The signature is previously written on a sheet of paper having a size sufficient to allow the signer to sign thereon in his usual manner. Then the impression is reduced in size until the size becomes smaller than the area of the end face 2. The reduced impression is applied on the end face 2 in inside out. Then the impression is engraved on the end face 2 by running a cutting blade along the impression on the paper. Care is especially paid so as not to lose the uniqueness of the signature. Figures 2 1 to 3 show the impression transferred on paper. As evident from the foregoing description, the present invention has eliminated the necessity of registering one s seal impression at a governmental office, and obtaining a certificate thereof each time when the identify of the person is necessarily authenticated for carrying out business transaction. The seal of the invention is a small, handy type which can be carried in one s pocket or wallet. Foreign residents will be relieved from that cursed duty to register their fingerprints at the ward offices. In a modified form of the invention the seal is incorporated in known manner into a signet ring to be worn on a finger. Also, the signature may be engraved on the seal using standard chemical etching techniques rather than a cutting tool.