# Process for preparing piperidylidene dihydrodibenzo a,d cycloheptenes and aza derivatives thereof, compounds obtained by such process and the use of such compounds for preparing useful pharmaceutical compositions.

## Abstract
Disclosed is an improved process for preparing unsub stituted or substituted dihydro dibenzo a,d cycloheptenes, azaderivatives thereof and the pharmaceutically acceptable salts of such compounds. A narrow group of compounds which possess antihistaminic properties with substantially no sedative properties and which are obtainable by the claimed process is also claimed.

## Claims
Claims 1. Process for the preparation of compounds of the general formula I.EMI36.1 wherein a, b, c, and d represent CH or one of a, b, c and d represents N and the others represent CH R1, R2, R3 and R4 may be the same or different and each independently represents hydrogen, alkyl having from 1 to 6 carbon atoms, fluoro, chloro, bromo, iodo, nitro, alkoxy having from 1 to 6 carbon atoms or trifluoromethyl R5 is lower alkyl, H or COOR7, wherein R7 represents C1 to C12 alkyl, substituted C1 to C12, C2 toC12 alkenyl, substituted C2 to C12 alkenyl, phenyl, substituted phenyl, C7 to C10 phenylalkyl or C7 to C10 phenylalkyl wherein the phenol moiety is substituted, orR7 is 2 , 3 , or 4 piperidyl or N substituted piperidyl, wherein the substituents on said substituted C1 to C12 alkyl and on said substituted C2 to C12 alkenyl are selected from amino or substituted amino and the substituents on said substituted amino are selected from C1 to C6 alkyl, the substituents on said substituted phenyl and on said substituted phenyl moiety of the C7 toC10 phenylalkyl are selected from C1 to C4 alkyl and halo, and the substituent on said N substituted piperidyl is C1 to C4 alkyl and pharmaceutically acceptable salts of such compounds, whereby a compound of the general formula IIEMI37.1 wherein a, b, c, d, R1, RX, RJ and R4 are as defined above and R5 is as defined for R5 above or represents are N protecting group, is subjected to gn intramolecular condensation followed, if necessary or if desired, by one or more of the following steps a removal of any N protectinq group represented by R5 b transformation of a compound wherein R5 is lower alkyl or COOR7 into a compound wherein R5 is hydrogen c transformation of a compound wherein R5 is hydrogen into a compound wherein R5 is COOR7 or lower alkyl d transformation of a compound wherein R5 is lower alkyl into a compound wherein R5 is COOR7 or e transformation of a compound of formula I obtained according to any one of the steps above into a pharmaceutically acceptable salt characterized in that the intramolecular condensation is performed by treating the compound of formula II with an acid having a Hammett acidity function of minus 12 or lower. 2. Process according to Claim 1, characterized in that the acid has a Hammett acidity function of minus 13 or minus 14. 3. Process according to any one of Claims 1 or 2, characterized in that the acid used is selected fromHF BF3, CF3S03HCH3S03H BF3 and FS03B. 4. Compounds of the general formula XIII.EMI38.1 wherein either R2 is hydrogen or C1 and R3 isCF3, F, Cl, Br or I or R2 is CF3, F, Br or I and R3 is hydrogen, CF3, F, C1, Br or I. and pharmaceutically acceptable calls thereof. 5. Compounds according to Claim 4 wherein both R2 and R3 are independently selected from CF3, Cl or F. 6. Compounds according to Claim 5 wherein R2 and R3 are the same and are both C1 or F. 7. Compounds according to Claim 4 wherein R2 is F and R3 is hydrogen or R2 is H and R3 is F or R2 is CF3 and R3 is hydrogen or R2 is CF2 and R3 is CF3. 8. The compounds of the formula VEMI39.1 wherein a, b, c, d, R1, R2, R3 and R4 are as defined in claim 1. 9. The use of a compound as defined in any one of Claims 4 to 7 for the preparation of pharmaceutical compositions having anti allergic activity. Claims 1. Process for the preparation of compounds of the general formula IEMI40.1 wherein a, b, c, and d represent CH or one of a, b, c and d represents N and the others represent CH R1, R2, R3 and R4 may be the same or different and each independently represents hydrogen, alkyl having from 1 to 6 carbon atoms, fluoro, chloro, bromo, iodo, nitro, alkoxy having from 1 to 6 carbon atoms or trifluoromethyl R5 is lower alkyl, H or COOR7, wherein R7 represents C1 to C12 alkyl, substituted C1 to C12, C2 toC12 alkenyl, substituted C2 to C12 alkenyl, phenyl, substituted phenyl, C7 to C10 phenylalkyl or C7 to C10 phenylalkyl wherein the phenyl moiety is substituted, orR7 is 2 , 3 , or 4 piperidyl or N substituted piperidyl, wherein the substituents on said substituted C1 to C12 alkyl and on said substituted C2 to C12 alkenyl are selected from amino or substituted amino and the substituents on said substituted amino are selected fromC1 to C6 alkyl, the substituents on said substituted phenyl and on said substituted phenyl moiety of the C7 toC10 phenylalkyl are selected from C1 to C4 alkyl and halo, and the substituent on said N substituted piperidyl is C1 to C4 alkyl and pharmaceutically acceptable salts of such compounds, whereby a compound of the aeneral formula IIEMI41.1 wherein a, b, c, d, R1, Rz, R3 and R4 are as defined above and R5 is as defined for R5 above or represents are N protecting group, is subjected to an intramolecular condensation followed, if necessary or if desired, by one or more of the following steps a removal of any N protecting group represented by R5 b transformation of a compound wherein R5 is lower alkyl or COOR7 into a compound wherein R5 is hydrogen c transformation of a compound wherein R5 is hydrogen into a compound wherein R5 is COOR7 or lower alkyl d transformation of a compound wherein R5 is lower alkyl into a compound wherein R5is COOR7 or e transformation of a compound of formula I obtained according to any one of the steps above into a pharmaceutically acceptable salt characterized in that the intramolecular condensation is performed by treating the compound of formula II with an acid having a Hammett acidity function of minus 12 or lower. 2. Process according to Claim 1, characterized in that the acid has a Hammett acidity function of minus 13 or minus 14. 3. Process according to any one of Claims 1 or 2, characterized in that the acid used is selected fromHF BF3, CF3S03HCH3S03H BF3 and FSO3H. 4. Process for makinq compounds of the general formula XIII.EMI42.1 wherein either R2 is H or C1 and R3 is CF3, F, C1, Br or I or R2 is CF3, F, Br or I and R3 is H, CF3, C1, Br or I and pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof, characterized in that A a compound of the general formulaEMI43.1 wherein R2 and R3 are as defined above and R isH or an N protecting group is subjected to an intramolecular condensation or B a compound of the general formulaEMI43.2 wherein R2, R3 and R are as defined above is subjected to a dehydration introducinq a double bond between the position 11 of the tricyclic nucleus and the piperidinyl rest followed, if necessary, by removal of any Nprotecting group represented by R and, if desired, transformation into an acid addition salt. 5. Process according to Claim 4, wherein the intramolecular condensation is carried by means of an acid. 6. Process according to Claim 5 wherein the acid used is sulfuric acid. 7. Process according to Claim 5 wherein the acid used is a super acid as defined in Claim 1. 8. Process according to any one of Claims 1 to 7 wherein the N protecting group represented by R is lower alkyl, preferably methyl. 9. Process for preparing a pharmaceutical composition, characterized in that a compound of formulaXIII as defined in Claim 4 is brought into a form suitable for pharmaceutical application. 10. The use of a compound of formula XIII as defined in Claim 4 for the preparation of pharmaceutical compositions having anti allerqic activity.

## Description
PROCESS FOR PREPARING PIPERIDYLIDENE DIHYDRO DIRENZO a,d CYCLOHEPTENES AND AZA DERIVATIVES THEREOF, COMPOUND6 OBTAINED BY SUCH PROCESS AND THE USE OF SUCH COMPOUNDS FOR PREPARING USEFUL PHARMACEUTICAL COMPOSITIONS This invention relates to an improved process in the preparation of compounds of the general formula IEMI1.1 wherein a, b, c, and d represent CH or one of a, b, c and d represents N and the others represent CH R1, R2, R3 and R4 may he the same or different and each independently represents hydrogen, alkyl having from 1 to 6 carbon atoms, fluoro, chloro, bromo iodo, nitro, alkoxy havinq from 1 to 6 carbon atoms or tr ifluoromethyl R5 is lower alkyl, H or COOR7, wherein R7 represents C1 to C12 alkyl, substituted C1 to C12, C2 to C12 alkenyl, substituted C2 to C12 alkenyl, phenyl, substituted phenyl, C7 to C10 phenylalkyl or C7 to C10 phenylalkyl wherein the phenyl moiety is substituted, orR7 is 2 , 3 , or 4 piperidyl or N substituted piperidyl, wherein the substituents on said substituted C1 to C12 alkyl and on said substituted C2 to C12 alkenyl are selected from amino or substituted amino and the substituents on said substituted amino are selected fromC1 to C6 alkyl, the substituents on said substituted phenyl and on said substituted phenyl moiety of the C7 toC10 phenylalkyl are selected from C1 to C4 alkyl and halo, and the substituent on said N substituted piperidyl is C1 to C4 alkyl and pharmaceutically acceptable salts of such compounds, wherebv a compound of the aeneral formula IIEMI2.1 wherein a, b, c, d, R1, R2, R3 and R4 are as defined above and R5 is as defined for R5 above or represents are N protecting group, is subjected to an intramolecular condensation followed, if necessary or if desired, by one or more of the following steps a removal of any N protecting group represented by R51 b transformation of a compound wherein R5 is lower alkyl or COOR7 into a compound wherein R5 is hydrogen c transformation of a compound wherein R5 is hydrogen into a compound wherein R5 is COOR7 or lower alkyl d transformation of a compound wherein R5 is lower alkyl into a compound wherein R5 is COOR7 or e transformation of a compound of formula I obtained according to any one of the steps above into a pharmaceutically acceptable salt characterized in that the intramolecular condensation is performed by treating the compound of formula II with an acid having a Hammett acidity function of minus 12 or lower. The starting compounds of formula II may be prepared by the following procedures A compound of formula IIIEMI3.1 is reactedA with a compound of formula IVEMI3.2 in the presence of base to produce a compound of formulaVEMI4.1 reacting the compound of formula V above with a dehydrating aqent to produce a compound of formula VIEMI4.2 reacting the compound of formula VI with a compound of formula VIIEMI4.3 and hydrolyzing the product thereof.In the above reaction scheme a, b, c, d and R1 to R5 are as defined above and 2 represents C1, Br or I. The compounds of formula V are novel compoundsXExcept for being useful for making the starting compounds of formulaII for the process claimed herein, they can also easily and with high yields be cyclized to compounds of formulaIX which are the starting compounds for the conventional method of making compounds of formula I illustrated for preparation of compounds of formula XII defined hereinafter EMI5.1 The ring closureEMI6.1 may also here advantageously be performed by means of a super acid, but other strong acids are also applicable.Processes for making compounds of formula I have been disclosed in the art, e.g. U.S. Patent Nos. 3.326.924 and 3.717.647 and Villani et al., Journal of Medical Chemistry,1972, Vol. 15, No. 7, pp 750 754. The possibility of making an intramolecular condensation directly from compounds II to compounds I has also.been suggested e.g. Swiss Patent No. 535,769 . The reagent proposed in said patent is polyphosphoric acid. This procedure gives very poor yields and the reaction results in a mixture of compounds from which the desired product can hardly be isolated. The process claimed herein provides much higher yields with a low amount of impurities being formed. The compounds of formula III are either known or may be obtained, for example, by a Ritter reaction in which a tertiary butyl compound is reacted with a cyanotoluene or cyano methyl pyridine compound, e.g. EMI6.2 Z represents OH, C1, Br etc. This reaction is generally performed in an acid such as concentrated sulfuric acid or concentrated sulfuric acid in glacial acetic acid. Suitable tertiary butyl compounds include, but are not limited to, t butyl alcohol, t butyl chloride, t butyl bromide, t butyl iodide, isobutylene or any other compounds which under hydrolytic conditions forms t butyl carboxamides with cyano compounds. The temperature of the reaction will vary depending on the reactants, but generally is conducted in the range of from about 500 to about 1000C with t butyl alcohol. The reaction may be performed with inert solvents but is usually run neat. The compound formula III is reacted with an appropriate benzyl halide of formula IV in the presence of a base to form the compound of formula V above. The selection of the benzyl halides depends on the substitutes R1 to R4 which are desired and include, but are. not limited to, benzyl chloride, 3 chloro benzyl chloride, 3 f luoro benzyl chloride, 3,4 dichlorobenzylchloride, 4 fluoro benzyl chloride, 3 nitro benzyl chloride, 3 methyl benzyl chloride, etc. Any suitable base can be employed, e.g., an alkyl lithium compound such as n butyl lithium in tetrahydrofuran THF .Preferably the base has a pK, of qreater than 20 and more preferably greater than 30. This reaction can be conducted at any suitable temperature, e.g., temperatures of from about 780C to about 300C, preferably from about 400C to about 300C. The reaction can be performed in any suitable inert solvent such as THF, diethyl ether, etc. The amide of formula V is converted to the cyano compound of formula VI by the use of a suitable dehydrating agent such as POC13, SOCI2, P205, toluene sulfonyl chloride in pyridine, oxalyl chloride in pyridine, etc. This reaction can be performed in the absence of or with an inert co solvent such as xylene.The dehydrating agent such as POC13 is employed in equivalent amounts or greater and preferably in amounts of from about 2 to about 15 equivalents. Any suitable temperature and time can be employed for performing the reaction, but generally heat is added to speed up the reaction. Preferably, the reaction is performed at or near reflux. The cyano compound of formula VI is reacted with a.Grignard reagent formula VII prepared from the appropriate l N protected 4 halopiperidine. Any suitable N protecting group known in the art to protect the piperidinyl nitrogen atom from reaction during formation of the Griqnard reagent of formula VI can be employed. The N protecting group represented by R5 can be any group which will allow the preparation of theGrignard reagent VII from the corresponding 4halopiperidine without undesired side reactions.Suitable N protecting groups include alkyl e.g., methyl , aryl e.g. phenyl or substituted phenyl , alkyloxyalkyl e.g., methoxymethyl , benzyloxyalkyl e.g., benzyloxymethyl , substituted benzyloxyalkyl e.g. di p methoxyphenyl methyl , triphenylmethyl, tetrahydropyranyl, diphenyl posphinyl, benzene sulfenyl, etc. TheN protecting group can be later removed by conventional means. The reaction between compounds of formulae VI and VII is generally performed in an inert solvent such as an ether, toluene or tetrahydrofuran. This reaction is performed under the general conditions for a Grignard reactions, e.g., at temperatures of from about OOC to about 750C. The resulting intermediate is hydrolyzed, e.g, with aqueous acid such as aqueous HC1, to prepare the corresponding ketone of formula II. The process of this invention, i.e., the intramolecular condensation of a compound of formula II is performed by treating the compound II with a super acid having Hammett acidity function of minus 12, or lower e.g., minus 13, minus 14, etc. This measure of acidity is defined in Hammett, Louis P., and Deyrup, Alden J., Journal of the American Chemical Society, Vol.54, 1932, p. 2721. Suitable super acids for this purpose include, for example, HF BF3, CF3SO3H, CH3SO3H BF3,FSO3H, etc. The reaction can be performed in the absence of or with a suitable inert co solvent such as CH2Cl2. The temperature and time of the reaction vary with the acid employed. For example, with HF BF3 as the super acid system the temperature may be controlled so as to minimize side reactions, such as HF addition to the double bond of the rings. For this purpose, the temperature is generally in the range of from about 50 to 50 C, preferably from about 300 to 350C. WithCF3SO3H as the super acid system, the reaction may be run at elevated temperatures, e.g., from about 259 to about 1500C and at lower temperatures but the reaction then takes longer to complete. Generally the super acid is employed in excess, preferably in amount of from about 1.5 to about 30 equivalents. For example, with HF BF3 as the super acid system the volume weight ratio of HF to the compound of formula II in the reaction mixture is preferably from about 30 to about 1.5, more preferably 2.5 to 1.5. In such system, the weight weiqht ratio of BF3 to the compound of formula II in the reaction mixture is preferably from about 15 to about 0.75, more preferably from about 1 to about 0.75. The N protecting group represented by R5 can be converted to H or COOR7 prior to or after the ring closure reaction by any conventional method. For example, an R5 methoxymethyl group may be converted to H by treatment with boron trifluoride etherate, acetic anhydride and LiBr, while an R51 benzyloxymethyl group can be converted to H by catalytic reduction followed by basic hydrolysis. The resulting compounds wherein R5 is H can be converted to compound wherein R5 is COOR7 by reaction with a compound of the formula ZCOOR7 wherein Z is chloro, bromo or iodo. Further, when R5 is an alkyl group, such compounds may be directly converted to compounds wherein R5 is COOR7 by reaction with a compounds ZCoOR7 as described below.Examples of the latter two processes are disclosed in U.S. patent No.4,282,233. Alternatively, the compounds of formula I wherein R5 is hydrogen can be prepared by dealkylation of a compound of formula I wherein R5 is alkyl preferably methyl , e.q., by reaction with cyanoqen bromide and subsequent hydrolysis of the N cyano product with, for example, aqueous acid solution. The compounds of formula I can form salts with pharmaceutically acceptable acids such as hydrochloric, methanesulfonic, sulfuric, acetic, maleic, fumaric, phosphoric and the like. The salts are prepared by contacting the free base form with a sufficient amount of the desired acid to produce a salt in the conventional manner. The free base form may be regenerated by treating the salt forms with a base. For example, dilute aqueous base solutions may be utilized. Dilute aqueous sodium hydroxide, potassium carbonate, ammonia, and sodium bicarbonate solutions are suitable for this purpose. The free base form differs from the respective salt forms somewhat in certain physical properties such as solubilitly in polar solvents, but the salts are otherwise equivalent to the respective free base form for purposes of the invention. The compounds of the invention and their corresponding salts can exist in unsolvated as well as solvated forms, including hydrated forms. In general, the solvated forms, with pharmaceutically acceptable solvents such as water, ethanol and the like are equivalent to the unsolvated forms for purposes of the invention. Certain compounds of formula I are well known in the art, e.g. from U.S. patents Nos. 3,326,924, 3,717,647, 4,282,233 and 4,072,756, as pharmaceutically active compounds havinq antihistaminic and or anti allerqy properties. Within the scope of compounds defined by formula I the narrow group having the formula XIIIEMI11.1 and salts thereof, wherein either R2 is hydrogen or C1 and R3 is CF3, F, C1, Br or I or R2 is CF3, F, Br or I and R3 is hydrogen, CF3, F, Cl, Br or I, are novel compounds.They are generically covered by Swiss Patent No. 535769 but have not been specifically described in the literature and have been found to have superior properties compared to specific compounds described in the art. The pharmaceutical compositions of this invention may be either solid or liquid. Solid form preparations include powders, tablets, dispersible granules, capsules, cachets and suppositories. Usually the active ingredient is admixed with one or more suitable carriers which may also act as diluents, flavoring agents, solubilizers, lubricants, suspending agents, binders or tablet disintegrating agents it can also be an encapsulating material. Suitable solid carriers are magnesium carbonate, maqnesium stearate, talc, sugar, lactose, pectin, dextrin , starch, gelatin, tragacanth, methylcellulose, sodium carboxymethylcellulose, a low melting wax, cocoa butter and the like.The term wpreparationw is intended to include the formulation of the active compound with encapsulatinq material as carrier providinq a capsule in which the active component with or without other carriers is surrounded by carrier, which is thus in association with it. Similarly, cachets are included. Tablets, powders, cachets and capsules can be used as Solid dosage forms suitablb for oral administration. Liquid form preparations include solutions, suspensions and emulsions. As an example may be mentioned water or water propylene glycol solutions for parenteral injection. Liquid preparations can also be formulated in solution in aqueous potyethylene glycol solution. Aqueous solutions suitable for oral use can be prepared by adding the active component in water and may include suitable colorants, flavors, stabilizing, sweetening, solubilizing and thickening agents as desired. Aqueous suspensions suitable for oral use can be made by dispersing the finely divided active component in water with viscous material, i.e., natural or synthetic gums, resins, methylcellulose, sodium carboxymethylcellulose and other well known suspending agents. The composition of the invention may also be deliverable transdermally, e.g., with a transdermally acceptable carrier. The transdermal compositions can take the form of creams, lotions andr emulsions, can he included in an appropriate adhesive for application to the ski n or can be included in a transdermal patch of the matrix or reservoir type as are conventional in the art for this purpose. Preferably, the transdermally acceptable composition is utilized to prepare a reservoir types or matrix type patch which is applied to the skin and worn for a specific period of time to permit the penetration of a desired amount of a compound of formula I through the skin. Most preferably, the.patch of the invention will be worn for a period of about 24 hours and provide a total daily dosage of about 1 mg to about 40 mg, preferably from about 5 mg to about 10 mg, of a compound of the invention. The patch may then be replaced if necessary with a fresh patch, thereby providing a constant blood level of a compound of formula I to the patient in need thereof. The utilization of this new transdermal dosage form and its prescribed regimen will provide the advantages described above. Other frequencies of dosage application are anticipated, for example, a once every 3 day frequency or a once every 7 day frequency. Although a once a day dosage regimen may be preferred, it is not intended that the invention be limited to any particular regimen. The quantity of active compound in a unit dose of preparation may be varied or adjusted from 1 mg to 1000 mg according to the particular application. The compositions can, if desired, also contain other therapeutic agents, such as decongestants. The dosages may be varied depending upon the requirements of the patient and the severity of the condition being treated. Determination of the proper dosage for a particular situation is within the skill of the art. For convenience, the total daily dosage may be divided and administered in portions during the day if desired. The compounds of the invention possess antihistaminic properties. The antihistaminic properties of these compounds may be demonstrated by use of standard pharmacological testing procedures. For example, the ability of the compounds to reduce histamine induced paw edema in mice may be measured by use of the following method. Male CF1 mice, 25 30 g, are housed under conditions of controlled temperature and humidity with a 12 hour dark light cycle. Food and water are allowed ad libitum. The mice are randomly assigned to the treatment groups. One hour after treatment with a compound of the invention or vehicle, the mice are lightly anesthetized with ether. The left hind paw of each mouse serves as a control and is injected with 25 1 of isotonic saline.The right hind paw serves as the experimental paw and is injected with 25 yl of isotonic saline containing 13 ssq histamine dihydrochloride. Thirty minutes later the mice are killed by cervical dislocation and both hind paws of each mouse are removed by cuttinq at the tarsal joint.The weight of each paw is recorded and the difference in weight between the compound treated and the placebotreated groups is evaluated using Student s t test.The ED50 values the dose causing 50 inhibition of histamine induced edema and 95 confidence limits are determined by the Linear Least Square Dose ResponseMethod Brownlee, K.A., Statistical Theory andMethodology In Science and Engineering , 2nd Ed., J.Wiley and Sons, New York, 1965, pp. 346 349 . As mentioned above, the novel compounds of this invention are potent antihistaminic agents without showing the usual CNS activity which is indicative of drowsiness. Accordingly the compounds were also tested for antihistaminic activity by the procedures set forth in paragraph A below and for CNS activity by the procedures set forth in paragraphs B, C, and D below. A. Prevention of histamine induced lethality in guinea pigs. The compounds were evaluated for their ability to protect female albino guinea pigs 250 350 g against death induced by the intravenous injection of histamine dihydrochloride at 1.1 mg kg, which is approximately twice the LD99. Doses of the antagonists were administered orally to separate groups of fasted animals 1 hour prior to the challenge with histamine and protection from death recorded for 30 minutes after histamine. ED50 values were determined for each drug by prohibit analysis. B. Antagonism of Physostigmine Lethality. The physostignine induced lethality test used was a modification of the technique reported by COLLIER et al.,Br. J. Pharmac., 32, 295 310 1968 . Physostigmine salicylate 1.0 mg kg s.c. produces 1008 lethality when administered to mice grouped 10 per plastic caqe 11 x 26 x 13 cm . Test agents were administered orally 30 minutes prior to physostigmine. The number of survivors were counted 20 minutes after physostigmine administration. C. Antagonism of Acetic Acid Writhing. The acetic acid writhing test used was essentially that described by HENDERSHOT and FORSAITH, J. Pharmac. Exp.Ther., 125, 237 240 1959 , except that acetic acid rather than phenylguinone was used to elicit writhing.Mice were injected with 0.6 aqueous acetic acid at 10 mg kg i.p. 15 minutes after oral administration of the test drug. The number of writhes for each animal was counted during a 10 minute period starting 3 minutes after acetic acid treatment. A writhe was defined as a sequence of arching of the back, pelvic rotation and hind limb extension. D. Antagonism of Electro Convulsive Shock ECS . For the ECS test, a modification of the method ofTOMAN et al., J. Neurophysiol., 9, 231 239 1946 , was used. One hour after oral administration of the test drug or vehicle, mice were administered a 13 mA, 50 cycle a.c. electroconvulsant shock ECS for 0.2 seconds via corneal electrodes. This shock intensity produces tonic convulsions, defined as extension of the hind limbs, in at least 95 of vehicle treated mice. Of the above test procedures for measuring cNS activity of antihistamines, the physostigmine induced lethality test is believed to be a major index of nonsedating characteristics, since it reflects mainly central anticholinerqic potency which is believed to contribute to sedative activity. The results from the above test procedures are set forth in the Table below Compounds tested were EMI16.1 Compound A R2 C1 R5 HCompound B R2 H R5 HCompound C R2 Cl R5 CH Compound D R2 H R5 CH 3 Compound E R2 F R5 HCompound E is the preferred compound of those claimed herein. Compounds A to D are known compounds, whereby compound A is already known to be relatively nonsedating. See European Patent Application No.85101486 . TABLE Compound Antihistninic Activity CNS Activity A. G. pig p.o. C. Phsostigmine D. Acetic E. ECS Ego mg kg lethality writhing test Enso wAg op EsQ mg kg mg kg A 0.15 320 147 160 B 0.26 7.1 285.1 160 C 0.026 6 14.1 160 D 0.009 6.1 8.9 80 E 0.09 320 320 320 The above results demonstrate that the compounds of the invention are a potent antihistamines having low CNS activity indicative of non sedation. From the above test results, it may be concluded that the compounds of the invention would be essentially non sedating at a clinically useful antihistamic dosage. Compound E i.e., the 8 fluoro compound is particularly preferred because it has also shown very low toxicity. The amount and frequency of administration of the compounds of the invention and the pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof will be regulated according to the judgment of the attending clinican considering such factors as age, condition and size of the patient as well as severity of the symptom being treated. A typical recommended dosage regimen is oral administration of from 5 to 100 mg day, preferably 10 to 20 mg day, in two to four divided doses to achieve relief of the symptoms. The following examples are intended to illustrate, but not to limit, the present invention. EXAMPLE IA. N 1,1 DIMETHYLETHYL 3 METHYL 2 PYRIDINE CARBOXAMIDE 2 cyano 3 methyl pyridine 400 g is suspended in t BuOH 800 mL and the mixture heated to 700C.Concentrated sulphuric acid 400 mL is added dropwise over 45 minutes. The reaction is complete after a further 30 minutes at 750C. The mixture is then diluted with water 400 mL , charged with toluene 600 mL and brought to pH 10 with concentrated aqueous ammonia. The temperature is kept at 50 550C during the work up. The toluene phase is separated, the aqueous layer reextracted and the combined toluene phases are washed with water. Removal of the toluene yields an oil, N l,ldimethylethyl 3 methyl 2 pyridine carboxamide, from which solid product may crystallize. Product yield of 97 is determined by internal standard assay on gas chromatoraph. B. 3 2 3 FLUOROPHENYL ETHYL N l,l DIMETHYLETHYL 2 PYRIDINE CARBOXAMIDE Tetrahydrofuran 125 mL and N l,ldimethylethyl 3 methyl 2 pyridine carboxamide 1 equivalent are charged and cooled to 400C under nitrogen. Two equivalents of n butyllithium are then added over 40 minutes. When half the n butyllithium is added the mixture turns purple. Sodium bromide 1.3 q is added and then 3 fluoro benzyl bromide 1.05 equivalents is added dropwise 1 1 solution in tetrahydrofuran over 40 50 minutes while the temperature is maintained at 400C. After 30 minutes at 400C, the mixture is diluted with water 250 mL and the organic phase separated. This phase is dried over sodium sulphate and the solvent removed yielding an oil from which solid product, 3 2 3 fluorophenyl ethyl N l,ldimethylethyl 2 pyridine carboxamide, may crystallize. C. 3 2 3 FLUOROPHENYL1ETHYL 2 PYRIDINE CARBONITRILE A solution of 3 2 3 fluorophenyl ethyl N l,l dimethylethyl 2 pyridine carboxamide 36.4 g, 0.121 mole in 123 mL 202.3 , 1.32 mole of phosphorous oxychloride is heated at 1100C. for 3.5 hours and stirred at ambient temperature an additional 15 hours. The reaction is quenched with ice and water and the pH of the solution is brought to 8 by the addition of a saturated aqueous solution of potassium carbonate. The product is extracted into ethyl acetate and the solution is concentrated to a residue. Following purification by silica gel chromatography and trituration with pentane, 16.2 g 0.072 mole of product is obtained in 60 yield.D. l METHYL 4 PIPERIDINYL 13 t2 3 FLUOROPHENYL ETHYLl 2 PYRIDINYL1METHANONE To a solution of 3 2 3 fluorophenyl ethyli 2 pyridine carbonitrile 28.0 g, 0.123 mole in 150 mL of dry ThF is added 92 mL 1.48 moles liter, 0.136 mole ofN methylpiperidyl magnesium chloride over 10 minutes maintaining the temperature at 45 500C. The reaction is maintained at 400C to 500C for another 10 minutes and at ambient temperature for 45 minutes. The reaction is quenched to below pH 2 and aqueous hydrochloric acid and the resulting solution is stirred at 250C for 1 hour. The pH of the solution is adjusted to about 8, the product is extracted with ethylacetate, and the solution is concentrated to a residue. Following purification by silica gel chromatography, 38.3 g of product is obtained as a brown oil.E. 8 FLUORO 11 1 METHYL 4 PIPERIDYLIDENE 6,ll DIHYDRO sH BENzo 5,61CYCLoHEPTAfl,2 blPYRfDZNE A solution of l methyl 4 piperidinyl 3 2 3 fluorophenyl ethyll 2 pyridinyl methanone 15.0 q, 0.046 mole in 74 mL 125.5 g, 0.837 mole of trifluoromethane sulfonic acid is stirred at ambient temperature for 18 hours. The reaction is quenched with ice water and the solution made basic with potassium hydroxide. The product is extracted into ethyl acetate. The ethyl acetate solution is filtered to remove insolubles and the filtrate is concentrated to a residue. Following purification by silica gel chromatography, 5.4 g 0.0175 mole of product is obtained in 38 yield.F. 8 FLUORO ll l ETHOXYCARBONYL 4 PIPERIDYLIDENE 6,11 DIHYDRO SH BENZO 5,6 CYCLOHEPTA 1,2 b PYRIDINE To a stirred solution of 8 fluoro 11 1 methyl 4 piperidylidene 6,11 dihydro 5H benzo 5,61cyclohepta 1,2 b pyridine 10.5 g, 34 mmol and triethylamine 5.2 g, 52 mmol in dry toluene 120 mL at 800C under an argon atmosphere, was added ethylchloroformate 18.5 g, 170 mmol via a syringe. The reaction mixture was allowed to stir at this temperature for 30 minutes and at room temperature for one hour. The reaction mixture was then filtered and solvent was removed. The residue was triturated with pentane to give 10.1 grams yield 81 of the title compound, m.p. 116 1180C.G. 8 FLUORO 11 4 PIPERIDYLIDENE 6,11 DIHYDRO 5H BENZO 5,61 CYCLOHEPTA 1,2 b PYRIDINE 8 Fluoro ll l ethoxycarbonyl 4 piperidylidene 6,11 dihydro 5H benzo 5,6 cyclohepta 1,2 b pyridine 3.6 g, 9.8 mmol. was refluxed with KOH 4.5 g in 50 mL of ethanol water 1 1 for 66 hours under an argon atmosphere. The reaction mixture was poured into a brine solution and extracted twice with ethyl acetate. The extracts were combined and then dried over Na2SO4 and filtered. Solvent was removed to give 2.76 grams yield 95 of the title compound, m.p. 133.5 134.50C. EXAMPLE IIA. 3 2 3 FLUOROPHENYL ETHENYL PICOLINAMIDE A solution of 2 cyano 3 picoline 142 g, 1.2 mole and 3 fluorobenzaldehyde 164 g,1.32 mole in 750 mL of dry tetrahydrofuran TnF is prepared. This solution is added dropwise to a solution of 162.0 grams of potassium t butoxide 1.44 mole dissolved in 750 mL of dry THF at 150C to 200C. The addition requires 1 2 hour, and the temperature is maintained below 150C. The mixture is stirred at 15 to 200C for 1 hour, then at 0 to 50C for 2 hours. Saturated NH4C1 solution 400 mL is added to the mixture followed by 250 mL of H20. The mixture is stirred for 1 2 hour, and the aqueous layer is separated and extracted with 300 mL of CH2C12, which is combined with the THF layer. The organic solution is washed with 400 mL of saturated NH4C1 solution, dried over Na2SO4, treated with charcol and filtered through diatomaceous earth. The solvent is removed on a rotary evaporator, and the oily residue is dissolved in 350 mL of boiling toluene. The mixture is filtered hot to remove impurities and cooled overnight at O to 50C. The offwhite solid that precipitates is filtered, washed twice with 100 mL of cold toluene, and dried at 600C for 6 hours, yielding 122.1 grams 42.1 of the title compound, m.p. 153 1550C.B. 3 2 3 FLUOROPHENYL ETHYL PZCOLINAMIDE A solution is prepared by dissolving 121 grams of 3 2 3 fluorophenyl ethenyl picolinamide 0.5 mole in 500 mL of acetic acid. To the solution is added 8.0 grams of 5 Pd C and the mixture is placed on a Parr hydrogenator overnight. A theoretical amount of H2 is absorbed, and mixture is filtered through diatomaceous earth and poured into 4 liters of H2O. The off white suspension is stirred for 2 hours and cooled at 0 to 50C for 20 hours. The solid product 3 2 3 fluorophenyl ethyl picolinamide is filtered and washed three times with 100 mL of H2O and dried at 600C for 20 hours, yielding 108 grams yield 88.6 of the title compound, m.p. 1021040C.C. 3 2 3 FLUOROPHENYL ETHYL PICOLINIC ACID A suspension of 73.2 grams of 3 2 3fluorophenyl ethyl picolinamide 0.3 mole in 500.mL of ethanol and 125 grams of 45 KOH 1.0 mole is prepared. H20 200 mL is added, and the mixture is refluxed for 20 hours. TLC shows complete conversion to the acid. The alcohol is removed by distillation until the vapor temperature reaches 1000C. The suspension is cooled to room temperature, 100 mL of H2O is added and the solution is brought to a pH of 4 4.5 with 12N HC1 110 mL . The suspension is stirred for 1 hour and cooled overnight. The solid is filtered, washed three times with 100 mL of H2O and dried at 650C for 24 hours, yielding 69.6 grams yield r 94.8 of the title compound, m.p. 118 1220C.D. 8 FLUORO 6,11 DIHYDRO 5H BENZO 5,6 CYCLOHEPTA 1,2 b PYRIDIN ll ONE A solution of 61.3 grams of 3 2 3fluorophenyl ethyl picolinic acid 0.25 mole in 900 mL of tetrachloroethane is prepared. Anhydrous HC1 gas is passed through the solution at room temperature for 1 1 2 hours. Oxalylchloride 48.3 grams, 0.38 mole is carefully added, and stirred for 24 26 hours at room temperature slight heating at 35 400C for 4 hours is needed to obtain a dark solution . The solution is cooled to 0 50C, and 67 grams of A1C13 0.5 mole are slowly added over 1 2 hour. The mixture is stirred at 0 to 50C for 18 hours. An additional 17 grams of AlC13 0.125 mole is added, and mixture is stirred for 2 hours. Then 500 mL of 3.7 HC1 is added, and the mixture is stirred for 1 4 hour and filtered through diatomaceous earth. The top aqueous layer is separated, and the organic layer is washed twice with 500 mL of 3.7N HC1. The combined aqueous layer is washed twice with 500 mL of ether. Benzene 1 liter is added. The mixture is cooled to 5 100C and brought to pH 9 with slow addition of 390 grams of 50 NaOH. The mixture is stirred for 1 2 hour and filtered through diatomaceous earth. The aqueous layer is separated and washed twice with 300 mL of benzene, which are combined with the first benzene layer. The combined organic layers are washed with 250 mL of 5 NaHCO3 and 250 mL of saturated NaCl solution.The organic layer is dried over Na2SO4, and solvent is removed leaving 49.6 grams of a yellow solid. The solid is dissolved in 100 mL of butyl acetate hot and cooled for 24 48 hours at 0 to 50C. The solid is filtered, washed twice with 30 mL of cold ethyl acetate, and dried at 600C. for 20 hours, yielding 38.8 grams yield 68.5 of the title compound, m.p. 116 1190C. E. 1 METHYL 4 8 FLU0RO 6,11 DIHYDRO SH BENZO 5,61CYCLOHEPTA 1,2 b3PYRIDIN ll YLlPIPERIDIN ll OL A suspension is prepared by mixing 22.7 grams of ll oxo 8 fluoro 6, ll dihydro 5H benzo 5,6 cyclohepta 1,2 b pyridine 0.1 mole with 500 mL of liquid NH3, and 5.1 grams of Na .22 mole are added. The resulting blue mixture is stirred for 3 4 hour. A solution containing 15.9 grams of 4 chloro N methyl piperidine 0.12 mole in 400 mL of dry THF is slowly added over 1 2 hour and stirred for 2 hours at 250C. NH4Cl 17.5 grams, .33 mole is added, and the mixture is stirred for 1 2 hour until the mixture warms to OOC. Saturated NH4C1 solution 200 mL is added, followed by 50 mL of H2O, and mixture is stirred for 1 4 hour. The aqueous layer is separated and extracted with 200 mL of CH2C12, which is combined with the THF layer. The combined organic layer is washed with 250 mL of saturated NH4C1 solution, and dried over Na2SO4.The solvent is removed, leaving 34.7 grams of an oil, which crystallizes upon cooling. The solid material is dissolved in 65 mL of hot n butyl acetate and cooled overnight. The solid obtained is filtered, washed twice with 15 mL of cold ethyl acetate, and then dried at 750C for 6 hours, yielding 15.8 grams of the title compound, m.p. 123.5 1250C. The solvent is removed from the filtrate, leaving 11.0 grams of a yellow solid, which is dissolved in 20 mL boiling ethyl acetate, filtered hot, and cooled at 0 50C for 4 hours. The solid obtained is filtered, washed twice with 5 mL of ethyl acetate, and dried at 600C for 5 hours, yielding 4.3 grams total yield 61.7 .F. 8 FLUORO ll l METHYL 4 PIPERIDYLIDENE 6,11 DIHYDRO 5H BENZO 5,6 CYLOHEPTA 1,2 b PYRIDINE A solution of 13.1 grams of l methyl 4 8 fluoro 6,11 dihydro 11 hydroxy 5H benzo 5,6 cyclohepta l,2 b pyridin 1l yl piperidine 0.04 mole in 40 mL of 93 H2SO4 is prepared. The solution is stirred overnight at room temperature. CH2C12 200 mL is added, and with external cooling, the mixture is neutralized to pH 9 using 50 NaOH, while maintaining the temperature below 300C. The aqueous layer is separated and re extracted twice with 150 mL of CH2Cl2, which is combined with the first layer.The combined organic layer is washed with 150 mL of saturated NaHCO3 solution and 150 mL of saturated NaCl solution, dried over Na2SO4, treated with charcoal and filtered through diatomaceous earth. The solvent is removed on a rotary evaporator leaving 12.9 grams of a yellow oil, which solidified upon standing. The oil is dissolved in 70 mL of hot diisopropyl ether 6 parts and poured into a hot solution of 9.5 grams of maleic acid 0.082 mole dissolved in 60 mL of diisopropyl ether. The solution is cooled to 0 50C with stirring and a yellow oil forms.The mixture is cooled overnight at 0 50C with a yellow solid forming. The solid is filtered, washed twice with 20 mL of cold diisopropyl ether, and dried at 600C for 4 hours, yielding 18.2 grams. This solid is dissolved in 2 parts boiling diisopropyl ether and filtered hot. The filtrate is cooled at 0 50C with stirring for 1 hour with a heavy white precipitate forming. The suspension is cooled at 0 50C for 6 hours. The solid formed is filtered, washed three times with 15 mL of cold diisopropyl ether and dried at 75 800C for 48 hours, yielding 15.6 grams yield 72.2 of the title compound, m.p. 151 1520C. The product of step F above can then be employed in the process described in Example 1.F. and 1.G. to provide 8 fluoro 11 1 ethoxyearbonyl 4 piperidylidene 6,11 dihydro 5H benzo 5,61cyclohepta 1,2 b pyridine and 8 fluoro ll 4 piperidylidene 6,11 dihydro 5H benzo 5,6 cyclohepta 1,2 b pyridine, respectively. EXAMPLE III 8 CHLORO 6,ll DIHYDRO ll 4 PIPERIDYLIDENE 5H BENZO 5,6 CYCLOHEPTA l,2 b PYRIDINE ACETIC ACID SALT To 12 grams of sodium hydroxide in 30 mL ethyl alcohol 70 add 6 grams of 8 chloro 6,ll dihydro 1l l ethoxy carbonyl 4 piperidylidene SH benzot5,61 cyclohepta l,2 b pyridine prepared as described in U.S.patent 4,282,233 and reflux with stirring for 24 hours. After about the first 6 8 hours an additional 30 mL of 70 ethyl alcohol may be added. Remove about 50 of the solvent by distillation in vacuo. Add a small amount of ice water and acidify with glacial acetic acid. Extract with chloroform 6 8x , since the product precipitates from the acetic acid solution as a thick emulsion which cannot be filtered. Concentrate the chloroform extracts to a small volume and precipitate the product with hexane. Crude m.p. 197 2000C. Recrystallize from benzene hexane to obtain the product, m.p. 199 2000C. Yield 4.0 4.5 grams. EXAMPLE IVA. 3 2 3 CHLOROPHENYL ETHYL N 1,1 DIMETHYLETHYL 2 PYRIDINE CARBOXAMIDE 31.5 g of N l,l dimethylethyl 3 methyl 2pyridine carboxamide is dissolved in 600 mL of dry tetrahydrofuran and the resulting solution is cooled to 400C. Two equivalents of n butyllithium in hexane are added while the temperature is maintained at 400C. The solution turned deep purple red. 1.6g of sodium bromide is added and the mixture is stirred. A solution of 26.5 g 0.174 mole m chlorobenzylchloride in 125 mL of tetrahydrofuran is added while the temperature is maintained at 400C. The reaction mixture is stirred until the reaction is complete as determined by thin layer chromatography. Water is added to the reaction until the color is dissipated. The reaction mixture is extracted with ethyl acetate, washed with water, and concentrated to a residue.A yield of 92 for the product is shown by chromatography.B. 3 2 3 CHLOROPHENYL ETHYLi 2 PYRIDINE CARBOITRILE A solution of 3 2 3 chlorophenyl ethyl N l,l dimethylethyl 2 pyridine carboxamide 175 g, 0.554 mole , in 525 mL 863 r 5.63 mole of phosphorous oxychloride is heated at reflux for 3 hours. Completion of the reaction is determined by thin layer chromatography. Excess phosphorous oxychloride is removed by distillation at reduced pressure and the residue is quenched into a mixture of water and isopropanol. The pH is brought to 5 7 by addition of 50 aqueous sodium hydroxide solution while maintaining the temperature below 300C. The crystalline slurry of crude product is filtered and washed with water. Crude product is purified by slurrying the wet cake in hot isopropanol followed by cooling at 0 50C. The product is filtered, washed with hexane and dried at below 500C. Yield 1l89 HPLC purity 95.7 , m.p. 720 73aC, 89.4 of theory.C. 1 METHYL 4 PIPERIDINYL 3 2 3 CHLOROPHENYL ETHYL 2 PYRIDINYL METHANONE HYDROCHLORIDE To a solution of product of Step B above 118 g, 0.487 mole in 1.2 L of dry tetrahydrofuran is added 395 mL 2.48 mole liter, 0.585 mole, 1.2 eq. of Nmethyl piperidyl magnesium chloride over about 15 minutes maintaining the temperature at 450C 500C by cooling with water as necessary. The reaction is maintained at 400C to 500C for about another 30 minutes. Completion of the reaction is determined by thin layer chromatography. The reaction is quenched to pH below 2 with 2N hydrochloric acid and the resulting solution is stirred at about 250C for 1 hour. The bulk of the tetrahydrofuran is removed by distillation and the resulting solution is adjusted to pH 3.5 by the addition of aqueous sodium hydroxide.After cooling to 0 to 50C, the crystalline hydrochloride salt product is filtered off, washed with ice cold water and dried to constant weight at 600C. Yield 168.2g HALC purity 94 , m.p. 183 185 C, 89 of theory.D. 8 CHLORO 6,11 DIHYDRO ll l METHYL 4 PIPERIDYLIDENE SH BENZO 5,6 CYCLOHEPTAtl,2 b PYRIDINE To a solution of a product of Step C above 59 g, 0.15 mole in 120 mL 120 g, 6.0 mole of hydrofluoric acid at 350C is added boron trifluoridine 44.3 g, 0.66 mole over 1 hour. Completeness of the reaction is determined by thin layer chromatography. The reaction is quenched using ice, water and potassium hydroxide to a final pH of 10. The product is extracted into toluene and the toluene solution is washed with water and brine. The toluene solution is concentrated to a residue, which is dissolved in hot hexane. Insolubles are removed by filtration and the filtrate is concentrated to an off white powder. Yield 45.7 g HPLC purity 96 , 92 of theory.Alternative Step D 8 CHLORO 6,11 DIHYDRO 11 1 METHYL 4 PIPERIDYLIDENE 5H BENZO 5 ,6 CYCLOHEPTA 1,2 b PYRIDINE A solution of 177 g 0.49 mole of a product ofStep C above in 480 mL 814.1 g, 5.31 mole of trifluoromethanesulfonic acid at 90 950C for 18 hours under nitrogen. Completeness of the reaction is determined by thin layer chromatography. The cooled reaction is quenched with ice water and the pH is adjusted to 6 with barium carbonate. The product is extracted into methylene chloride, which is concentrated under reduced pressure to about 1 liter and washed with water. The product is extracted into 1 N hydrochloric acid, which is treated with 30 g of Darco, and filtered through celite.The pH of the filtrate is adjusted to 10 with 50 aqueous sodium hydroxide and the product is extracted into methylene chloride, which is removed under reduced pressure. The residue is dissolved in hot hexane, which is filtered to remove insolubles. The filtrate is concentrated to a residual beiqe powder.Yield 126 q HPLC purity 80 , 65 of theory. EXAMPLE V 8 CHLORO 6,11 DIHYDRO 11 4 PIPERIDYLIDENE 5H BENZO 5,6 CYCLOHEPTA 1,2 b PYRIDINE The acetic acid salt prepared in Example III is dissolved in a minimum amount of water and the solution is made basic with a dilute aqueous solution of potassium carbonate. A pink colored oil separates. Extract the organic material with chloroform, wash with water and remove the solvent. Triturate the residue with hexane. Recrystallize from a large volume of hexane after charcoal decolorization to obtain the product, m.p. 151 1520C. EXAMPLE VI 8 CHLORO 6, l1 DIHYDRO 11 4 PIPERIDYLIDENE 5H BENZO 5,61 CYCLOHEPTA 1,2 b PYRIDINE A. 8 CHLORO 6,11 DIHYDRO 11 1 CYANO 4 PIPERIDYLIDENE 5H BENZO15,6lCYCLOHEPTAt1,2 blPYRIDINE. Dissolve 16.2 grams 0.05 mole of 8 chloro 6, 1l dihydro 11 1 methyl 4 piperidylidene 5H benzo 5,6lcyclohepta 1,2 b pyridine prepared by the methods described in U.S. patent 3,326,924 in 300 mL of dry benzene. To this solution, add slowly under nitrogen a solution of cyanogen bromide 6.4 g dissolved in 75 mL of benzene. Allow this mixture to stir at room temperature overnight approximately 20 hours . Filter the solution, and concentrate the filtrate in vacuo to a small volume and precipitate the product by the addition of petroleum ether or hexane until precipitation is complete. Filter and recrystallize from ethanol water to yield the product 15 grams 89 , m.p. 140 1420C. Anal. Calcd. for C20H18N3Cl C,71.53 H,5.40 N,12.51. Found, C,71.73 H,5.43 N,12.27.B. 8 CHLORO 6,11 DIHYDRO 11 4 PIPERIDYLIDENE 5H BENZO 5,6 CYCLOHEPTA 1,2 blPYRIDINE. A solution of 14 grams of the N cyano compound from part A in 60 mL of concentrated hydrochloric acid, 600 mL of glacial acetic acid and 400 mL of water is refluxed with stirring for 20 hours. The solvents are removed in vacuo and the residue dissolved in water and neutralized with ammonium hydroxide. The material is extracted several times with chloroform, the chloroform extracts washed with water and concentrated to dryness, and the residue triturated with petroleum ether or hexane to yield 11.5 grams 93 m.p. 149 1510C. After recrystallization from hexane, the product melts at 150 151 C. Anal. Calcd. for ClgH19N2C1 C,73.42 H,6.16 N,9.01. Found C,73.19 H,6.14 N,8.91. EXAMPLE VIIStep A N l,1 dimethylethyl 3 methyl 2 pyridine carboxamide. 2 cyano 3 methyl pyridine 400g is suspended in t butyl alcohol 800 mL and the mixture heated to 700C. Concentrated sulphuric acid 400 mL is added dropwise over 45 minutes. The reaction is complete after a further 30 minutes at 750C. The mixture is then diluted with water 400 mL , charged with toluene 600 mL and brought to pH 10 with concentrated aqueous ammonia. The temperature is kept at 50 550C during the work up. The toluene phase is separated, the aqueous layer re extracted and the combined toluene phases are washed with water. Removal of the toluene yields an oil from which solid product may crystallize. Product yield of 97 determined by internal standard assay on gas chromatograph. Step B 3 2 phenyl ethyll N l,l dimethylethyl pyridine carboxamide. Tetrahydrofuran 125 mL , N l,ldimethylethyl 3 methyl 2 pyridine carboxamide 1 equivalent and sodium bromide 1.3 g are charged and cooled to 400C under nitrogen. Two equivalents of nbutyllithium are then added over 40 minutes. When half the n butyllithium is added the mixture turns purple.Benzyl chloride 1.05 equivalents is then added dropwise 1 1 solution in tetrahydrofuran over 40 50 minutes while the temperature is maintained at 40 C. After 30 minutes at 400C, the mixture is diluted with water 250 ml and the organic phase separated. This phase is dried over sodium sulphate and the solvent removed yielding an oil from which solid product may crystallize. Product yield of 94 determined by internal standard assay on gas chromatograph. Step C Cyclization to 5,6 dihydro 1lH benzo 5,6 cyclohepta l,2 bipyridin 1l one Polyphosphoric acid 123.75 and water 1.25 mL are heated to 2000C. 3 2 phenyl ethyl N l,ldimethylethyl 2 pyridine carboxamide is then added.After 30 minutes at 2000C the mixture is allowed to cool. Then the mixture is diluted with water and toluene is added. The mixture is brought to pH 10 with 40 aqueous NaOH. An internal standard assay on gas chromatograph determined a yield of 58 for 5,6 dihydro llH benzo 5,6 cyclohepta 1,2 b pyridin 11 one. Crystallization of title compound from toluene hexane qave m.p. 118.5 119.70C. EXAMPLE VIII Ethyl chloroformate 8.5 mL, 9.65 g, 0.089 mole is slowly added at 800C to a solution of 8 fluoro ll l methyl 4 piperidylidene 6,11 dihydro 5H benzo 5,6 cyclohepta 1,2 b yridine 5.4 q, 0.0175 mole and triethylamine 3.6 mL, 2.61 q, 0.026 mole in 60 mL of toluene. Following complete addition, the temperature is maintained at 800C for 1 hour. The reaction mixture is treated with charcoal, filtered, and concentrated to a residue. Following purification by silica gel chromatography and crystallization from pentane, 4.10 g 0.011 mole of 8 fluoro 6,11 dihydro 11 1 ethoxycarbonyl 4 piperidylidene 5H benzo 5, 6i cyclohepta 1,2 b pyridine is obtained in 63 yield. By analogous procedures, the corresponding 8chloro, 8 bromo, 8,9 dichloro, 9 chloro, and 9 fluoro analogs of this 8 fluoro ll l ethoxycarbonyl 4piperidylidene compound can be prepared. EXAMPLE IX A solution of 8 fluoro 6,11 dihydro 11 1 ethoxycarbonyl 4 piperidylidene SH benzo 5,61 cyclohepta 1,2 b pyridine 3.6 g, 0.0098 mole and potassium hydroxide 4.5 , 0.094 mole in 50 mL of ethanol water 1 1 is heated at reflux for 66 hours.The reaction mixture is diluted with brine and the product is extracted into ethyl acetate. The solution is concentrated to a residual solid which is washed with acetone ethyl acetate to yield 2.76 g 0.0094 mole of 8 fluoro ll 4 piperidylidene 6, ll dihydro 5H benzot5,63cycloheptall,2 b pyridine. By analogous procedures, the corresponding 8chloro, 8 bromo, 8,9 dichloro, 9chloro and 9 fluoro analogs of this 8 fluoro ll 4 piperidylidene compound can be prepared. EXAMPLE X A solution of l ethoxycarbonyl 4 piperidinyl 3 2 t3 chlorophenyl ethyll 2 pyridinyl methanone hydrochloride 0.5 g, 1.25 mmol prepared by reacting the corresponding l methyl Hpiperidinyl compound with ethyl chloroformate in 1.5 mL of trifluoromethane sufonic acid is stirred at ambient temperature for 24 hours. The reaction is diluted with ice and water, neutralized with barium carbonate, and the product extracted into ethyl acetate. The solvent is removed and following purification of the residue by silica gel chromatography, 8 chloro 6,11 dihydro 11 l ethoxyearbonyl 4 piperidylidene 5H benzo 5,6 cyclohepta l,2 blpyridine is obtained. The compound 8 chloro 6,11 dihydro 11 4piperidylidene 5H benzo 5,6 cyclohepta 1,2 b pyridine can be prepared by the above method by substituting 4 piperidinyl 3 2 3 chlorophenyl ethyll 2 pyridinylj methanone in place of the l ethoxycarbonyl 4 piperidylidene 3 2 3 chlorophenyl ethyl 2 pyridinyl methanone hydrochloride. While the present invention has been described in conjunction with the specific embodiments set forth above, many alternatives, modifications and variations thereof will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art. All such alternatives, modifications and variations are intended to fall within the spirit and scope of the present invention. EXAMPLE XI 5, 6 DIHYDRO llH BENZO 5,61 CYCLOHEPTA 1,2 B PYRIDIN 11 ONE A solution of 0.50 g 1.57 mmol of tbutylamide in 3 mL of trifluoromethanesulfonic acid was heated at 950C under nitrogen for three days. The reaction mixture was poured into ice water and adjusted to pH 10 with 50 aqueous sodium hydroxide. The product was extracted with ethyl acetate and the organic layer was concentrated to give 0.85 g of residue. Column chromatography on silica gel afforded 0.28 g 73 of azaketone as a light brown solid. Typical examples of compounds of formula XIII obtainable by the process of this invention and claimed herein areEMI35.1 Compound No. R2 R3 1 H C1 2 H Br 3 H I 4 H CF3 5 Br H 6 I H 7 CF3 H 8 F F 9 Br Br 10 I I 11 CF3 CF3 12 F C1