# Fiber reinforced compositie material for tools.

## Abstract
There is provided a fiber reinforced ceramic material for tools which comprises A 5 to 60 wt of SiC whiskers B 0.1 to 7 wt of one or more oxides selected from the group consisting of CaO, MgO, SiO₂, NiO, Y₂O₃, and lantha nide oxide and at least one of C and D wherein C 0.05 to 7 wt of one or more components selected from the group consisting of B, C, AIN, B₄C, and boride of Si, Al, Y, lanthanide, D 0.05 to 40 wt of a transition metal belong ing to Groups IVa, Va, and VIa of the Periodic Table or oxide, carbide, nitride, boride thereof including solid solution thereof and E the balance of Al₂O₃ amount of which is not less than 30 wt .

## Claims
WHAT IS CLAIMEP IS 1. A fiber reinforced ceramic material for tools which comprises A 5 to 60 wt of SiC whiskers B 0.1 to 7 wt of one or more oxides selected from the group consisting of CaO, MgO, SiO2, NiO, Y203 r and lanthanide oxide and at least one of C and D wherein C 0.05 to 7 wt of one or more components selected from the group consisting of B, C, A1N, B4C, and boride of Si, Al, Y, lanthanide, D 0.05 to 40 wt of a transition metal belonging to Groups IVa, Va, and VIa of the Periodic Table or oxide, carbide, nitride, boride thereof including solid solution thereof and E the balance of A1203 amount of which is not less than 30 wt . 2. A fiber reinforced ceramic material for tools as set forth in Claim 1 wherein the composition comprises 5 to 50 wt of SiC whiskers 7 to 35 wt of ZrO2 0.1 to 7 wt of one or more oxides selected from the group consisting of CaO, MgO, SiO2, NiO, Y20 r and lanthanide oxide 0.05 to 7 wt of one or more components selected from the group consisting of B, C, AIN, B4C, and boride ofSi, Al, Y, lanthanide, or a transition metal belonging toGroups IVa, Va, and VIa of the Periodic Table and the balance of A12O3. 3. A fiber reinforced ceramic material for tools as set forth in Claim 1 wherein the composition comprises 5 to 50 wt of SiC whiskers 0.1 to 7 wt of one or more oxides selected from the group consisting of MgO, CaO, Y2O3, and lanthanide oxide 0.5 to 40 wt of one or more components selected from the group consisting of an oxide, nitride, or carbide of Ti, Hf, V, Nb, Ta, Cr, Mo, and W, or 0.05 to 40 wt of one or more components selected from the group consisting of borides of transition metals belonging to Groups IVa, Va, and VIa of the PeriodicTable and the balance of A1203. 4. A fiber reinforced ceramic material for tools as set forth in Claim 1 wherein the composition comprises 5 to 50 wt of SiC whiskers 0.1 to 7 wt of one or more oxides selected from the group consisting of MgO, CaO, Y2O3, and lanthanide oxide 0.5 to 40 wt of one or more components selected from the group consisting of an oxide, nitride, and carbide of Ti, Hf, V, Nb, Ta, Cr, Mo, and W, or 0.05 to 40 wt of one or more metal selected from the group consisting of transition metals belonging to GroupsIVa, Va, and VIa of the Periodic Table 0.05 to 5 wt of one or more components selected from the group consisting of Al, AlN, B, C, B4C, and boride of Si, Al, Y, lanthanide, or actinide and the balance of A1203. 5. A fiber reinforced ceramic material for tools as set forth in Claim 1 wherein the composition comprises 5 to 50 wt of SiC whiskers 0.1 to 7 wtZ of one or more oxides selected from the group consisting of MgO, CaO, Y203 r and lanthanide oxide 0.5 to 40 wt of one or more components selected from the group consisting of an oxide, nitride, and carbide of a transition metal belonging toGroups IVa, Va, and VIa of the Periodic Table or 0.05 to 40 wt of one or more components selected from the group consisting of borides of said metals 3 to 40 wt of ZrO2 and 30 to 80 wt of A1203. 6. A fiber reinforced ceramic material for tools as set forth in Claim 1 wherein the composition comprises S to 50 wt of SiC whiskers 0.1 to 7 wt of one or more oxides selected from the group consisting of MgO, CaO, Y203 r and lanthanide oxide 0.5 to 40 wt of one or more components selected from the group consisting of an oxide, nitride, and carbide of a transition metal belonging toGroups IVa, Va, and VIa of the Periodic Table or 0.05 to 40 wt of one or more components selected from the group consisting of borides of said metals 0.05 to 5 wt of one or more components selected from the group consisting ofAl, AIN, B, C, B4C, and boride of Si, Al, Y, lanthanide, or actinide 3 to 40 we of ZrO2 and 30 to 80 wt3 ofA1203.

## Description
FIBER REINFORCED COMPOSITE MATERIAL FOR TOOLS FIELD OF THE INVENTION The present invention relates to an alumina ceramic material having a high density and high toughness.More particularly, it relates to a ceramic composition from which tools reinforced with SiC whiskers can be produced. The composition of the invention also includes a SiC whisker reinforced composition having a high density and high toughness suitable for high speed cutting of steel and cast iron. BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION Alumina is typical ceramic material. Because of its outstanding heat resistance and corrosion resistance, it is expected to find use as a tool and the like if its strength is enhanced. In addition, alumina has outstanding oxidation resistance at the time of high speed cutting, low chemical reactivity with iron, and a low coefficient of friction. For these reasons, alumina is predominant in the aluminum oxide based cutting tools now in use as the high speed cutting tool. However, aluminum oxide is not satisfactory in heat shock resistance and mechanical performance at high temperatures therefore, aluminum oxide based cutting tools do not easily and stably cut steel at high speeds. Recently, fiber reinforced ceramics FRC has attracted attention because the fiber reinforcement effectively prevents the deterioration of toughness of the ceramics at high temperatures, and its application to tools is expected. Tools made of aluminum oxide alone are considerably limited in their usage because of their low toughness. In order to eliminate this disadvantage, extensive research has been carried out. As the result, there has been proposed a composite material composed ofA1203 as a matrix and SiC whiskers dispersed in the matrix. As compared with the conventional Awl 0, sintered body, this composite material has improved toughness and hardness. However, its performance is not satisfactory so as to meet the requirements for practical use.Investigations revealed that this is attributable to a poor affinity of SiC whiskers for A1203, which does not produce the reinforcing effect of dispersed whiskers. In other words, SiC has an inherently poor affinity for A1203 and whiskers have very few lattice defects essential for sintering, which disrupts the affinity between the two constituents. In the conventional technology, this drawback has been eliminated by increasing the amount of sintering assistant and increasing the sintering temperature more than in the production of ordinary A1203 sintered bodies, or by employing pressure sintering. On the other hand, composite ceramics formed by dispersing zirconia in alumina are known to have an improved toughness because of the crystal modification of zirconia. The improvement of toughness takes place through the non diffusion lattice modification in which the tetragonal system of zirconia changes into the monoclinic system while the sintered body is cooled and also through the mutual reaction between the dispersed zirconia and the matrix. This method is very effective in improving the toughness at room temperature. However, the improvement of toughness through the modification of ZrO2 does not take place satisfactorily at high temperatures.Thus, the alumina zirconia composite ceramics have been limited in usage as tools which are used at high temperatures. Recently, reinforcement with fiber is considered to be a promising means to reinforce ceramics. It is also considered to be an effective means for the prevention of the deterioration of toughness at high temperatures. In the case of Al2O3 ZrO2 ceramics, however, SiC whiskers do not provide satisfactory reinforcement. This is becauseSiC has an inherently poor affinity for Al2O3 ZrO2 and SiC whiskers have very few lattice defects essential for sintering, which disrupts the affinity between the two constituents. Therefore, it has been considered that when Al2O3 ZrO2 is incorporated with whiskers, it is necessary to increase the sintering temperature, to employ pressure sintering, or to excessively sinter the matrix. Tools made of aluminum oxide alone are considerably limited in their usage because of their low toughness. In order to eliminate this disadvantage, extensive reseraches have been made. As the result, it has been found that Al2O3 ZrO2 ceramics are greatly improved in toughness and hardness when they are incorporated with a metal oxide, nitride, carbide, or boride. In addition, tools of Al2O3 TiC are now in practical use. Although these composite materials are considerably improved in toughness, the improvement is not enough to meet the market requirements. Investigations have revealed that this is because Al2O3 ZrO2 is not satisfactorily reinforced with the dispersed SiC whiskers.In the conventional technology, this drawback has been eliminated by increasing the amount of sintering assistant and increasing the sintering temperature more than in the production of ordinary A1203 sintered bodies, or by employing pressure sintering. SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION It is an object of the present invention to provide a fiber reinforced ceramic material for tools which comprises A 5 to 60 wt of SiC whiskers B 0.1 to 7 wt of one or more oxides selected from the group consisting of CaO, MgO, SiO2, NiO, y2O3, and lanthanide oxide and at least one of C and D wherein C 0.05 to 7 wt of one or more components selected from the group consisting of B, C, A1N, B4C, and boride of Si, Al, Y, lanthanide, D 0.05 to 40 wt of a transition metal belonging to Groups IVa, Va, and VIa of the Periodic Table or oxide, carbide, nitride, boride thereof including solid solution thereof and E the balance of A1203 amount of which is not less than 30 wt . DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION According to the present invention, basic components of the ceramic composition comprises A 5 to 60 wt of SiC whisker B 0.1 to 7 wt of additives comprising one or more oxides selected from the group consisting of CaO, MgO, SiO2, NiO, Y203 and lanthanide oxide and E not less than 30 wt of A1203. Beside these the ceramic composition of the present invention includes at least one of components C and D wherein C is 0.05 to 7 wt of one or more of components selected from the group consisting of B, C,A1N, B4C and boride of Si, Al, Y and lanthanide and D is 0.05 to 40 wtZ of a transition metal belonging to Groups IVa, Va, and VIa of the Periodic Table or oxide, carbide, nitride, boride of these metals, as well as solid solution of oxides, or oxide with metal. When C and or D are contained in the composition, total amount percent is adjusted with the amount of A12O3, provided that amount of A1203 should be not less than 30 wt of the composition. Accordingly, the embodiments of the composition according to the present invention may be shown below. 1 A B C D E 2 A B C E 3 A B D E The preferable components of the present invention are as follows. SiC whisker may be a or t3 form and a mixture thereof which is fibrous having 0.2 pm or more in an average diameter, from 10 to 100 pm in length, from 10 to 50 of aspect ratio, and 3.2 g cm2 of density. A thicker fiber in a diameter is preferable. A spherical grain may be contained in less than 30 wt of the total SiC material. The additives C should be 99 or higher in purity and powder having 2 vm or smaller of particle size. The components D which comprise oxides, carbides, nitrides, borides and solid solution thereof are of particulate material having 5 wm or smaller of particle size and 99 or higher in purity. When coarse raw material is used, it should be pulverized in advance of mixing singly or with other component than whisker. According to this invention, the SiC whiskers get entangled with the dispersed phase D , effectively improving its toughness and increasing its hardness. The dispersed phase C enhances the effect of the dispersed phase D . The Awl 203 may be of a or ss form powder having to 0.1 to 1 pm of an average particle size, which may be previously doped with additives B comprising CaO, MgO,SiO2, NiO, Y203 and lanthanide oxide. The amount of A1203 constituting the matrix may have a specific range the matrix is not effectively formed and if it is more than 80 wt , according to amount of other ingredients to be incorporated to produce the desired effect. The oxide, nitride, boride or carbide of the transition metal belonging to Groups IVa, Va, and Via of the Periodic Table, which forms the first dispersed phase D , should be added in an amount of 0.05 to 40 wt , preferably 0.5 wt to 40 wt . With less than 0.5 wt of nitride or carbide of a transition metal, it does not produce the desired effect, and with more than 40 wt , it decreases toughness. A boride of a transition metal in an amount less than 0.05 wt does not produce the desired effect, and with an amount more than 40 wt , it decreases toughness. In a form of solid slution of these metals oxide, carbide, nitride, boride of these metals and metals with these compounds are also be used in the present invention. Incidentally, the transition metals denote, for example, Ti and Zr Group IVa , V and Nb Group Va , andCr and Mo Group VIa . Particularly, ZrO2 may be preferably used as crystal modification in A1203 as mentioned above, and it improves toughness through the reaction with the Awl203. In the A12O3 ZrO2 matrix with less than 3 wt , it does not produce a marked effect. The preferred amount is 7 wt .With more than 40 wt , the ceramic material does not have sufficient strength. Especially, ZrO2 more than 40 wt lowers the abrasion resistance of the ceramics material. CaO, MgO, SiO2, NiO, Y203, or lanthanide oxide, as the sintering assistant, is effective in sintering Al2O3. If its amount added is less than 0.5 wt , the desired effect is not produced, and with more than 7 wt , toughness decreases. The SiC whiskers, which form the dispersed phase A , should be added in an amount of 5 wt to 60 wt .With less than 5 wt , the desired reinforcing effect is not produced, and with more than 60 wit , the sinterability is poor. Al, A1N, B, C, B4C, or a boride of Si, Al, Y, lanthanide, or actinide, which forms the dispersed phase C , promotes the dispersion of the SiC whiskers. With an amount less than 0.05 wt , it does not produce a pronounced effect and with an amount more than 7 wt , it is likely to form a compound with SiC, lowering the interfacial strength between the matrix and the whiskers. According to one aspect of the present invention, A1203 is incorporated with ZrO2 to give a ceramic having an improved toughness. The ceramic is further incorporated with SiC whiskers to increase toughness. The affinity of these components is improved by adding B, C, A1N, B4C, or a boride of Si, Al, Y, lanthanide, or a transition metal belonging to Group IVa,Va, and VIa of the Periodic Table. The ceramic is also incorporated with CaO, MgO, SiO2, r NiO, y2O3, or a lanthanide oxide, which prevents the growth of the crystal grains of alumina and promotes sintering. Therefore, the ceramics composition of this invention is suitable for the manufacture of tools. As mentioned above, the sintered material of this invention has superior abrasion resistance and heat shock resistance. Therefore, it is suitable as a high speed cutting tool for steel and cast iron. It also exhibits its superior performance when used as a tool for hot working and as a tool for manufacturing various parts. The invention is now described in more detail with reference to the following examples, which should not be construed as limiting the scope of the invention. EXAMPLE 1 AND COMPARATIVE EXAMPLE 1 A body powder ready to sinter was prepared by mixing the following components in a ball mill for 2 hours, followed by drying. 1 A1203 powder having an average particle size of 0.7 vm. 2 SiC whisker having a diameter of 0.1 to 1.0 vm mostly 0.2 to 0.5 vim , a length of 50 to 200 vm, an aspect ratio of 50 to 300, and a density of 3.19 g cm3. 3 Sintering assistant CaO, MgO, SiO2, ZrO2, NiO,Y203, or lanthanide oxide having an average particle size of 0.5 to 1.5 vm. 4 B, A1N, B4C, or a boride of Si, Y, lanthanide, or a transition metal belonging to Groups IVa, Va, and VIa having an average particle size of 0.5 to 5 vm. The mixing ratios of these components are shown in Table 1. The body powder was sintered in a graphite mold by pressure sintering method under a pressure of 200 kg cm2 for 15 minutes. The sintering temperature is shown in Table 1. The resulting sintered body was ground by using a diamond wheel to achieve SNGN 432 TN and a surface roughness lower than 3S according to JIS . The ground sample was examined for hardness. The ground sample was also subjected to a cutting test under the following conditions. The results are shown in Table 1. Work FC 23 Cutting conditions Cutting speed V 150 m min Feed rate f 0.6 mm rev Depth of cut t 2 mm Judgment of life The life is judged by counting the number of raised parts which can be formed by cutting a rod 12D mm in diameter until failure occurs. Each raised part is 10 mm wide and the raised parts are formed at intervals of 5 mm. TABLE 1 sinter SiC Sintering ing Hacd Cutting Sample No.Al2O3 Whisker Assistant Additives Temp. ness Life wt wt wt wt C 45N Example 1 1 1 82.5 15 CaO 2 B 0.5 1600 90.5 10 1 2 43 50 Dy2O3 5 AIN 2 1750 90.9 14 1 3 56.5 40 MgO 3 TiB2 0.5 1700 91.2 14 1 4 70 25 MgO 2 YB6 3 1650 91.0 11 1 5 63.9 35 Y2O3 1 SiB4 0.1 1750 91.5 16 1 6 52.5 40 MgO 1 Dy2O3 5 AIN 1 B 0.5 1700 91.0 18 1 7 27.5 60 Y2Oe 6 CaO 0.5 MoB 6 1800 91.0 6 1 8 63.45 20 ZrO2 5 CaO 1.5 DyB4 0.05 1650 90.5 13 1 9 88 10 MgO 0.5 NiO 0.5 ZrB2 1 1600 89.3 B 1 10 33 60 CaO 3 SiO2 3 TaB2 1 1850 91.0 7 1 11 51.95 45 Dy2O3 2 CaO 1 B 0.05 1700 91.2 17 1 12 59 35 Y2O3 2 CaO 1 AIN 3 1700 91.8 18 1 13 73 20 Y2O3 1 ZrO2 4 AIN 1 YB6 1 1700 90.3 13 1 14 38 55 Dy2O3 3 MgO 2 WB 2 1850 91.6 13 1 15 67.8 30 Y2O3 1 Dy2O3 1 HPB2 0.2 1750 91.2 15Compaqrative 1 16 30 65 Cao 4 YB6 1 1900 90.1 3Example 1 1 17 70 15 MgO 5 NiO B NOB 2 1600 88.2 Failed 1 18 86 8 ZrO2 1 CaO 3 TiB2 2 1600 88.8 Failed 1 19 49 40 Dy2O3 3 B 8 1750 89.6 Failed 1 20 69 Al2O3 30 TiC 1 MgO 1800 91.0 1 Number of raised parts cout until failure. EXAMPLE 2 AND COMPARATIVE EXAMPLE 2 A body powder ready to sinter was prepared by mixing the following components in a ball mill for 2 hours, followed by drying. 1 A12o3 powder having an average particle size of 0.7 pm. 2 ZiO2 powder having an average particle size of 0.2 cm. The ratio of A1203 to ZrO2 is 2 1 by weight. 3 SiC whisker having a diameter of 0.1 to 1.0 pm mostly 0.2 to 0.5 pom , a length of 50 to 200 cm, an aspect ratio of 50 to 300, and a density of 3.19 g cm3. 4 Sintering assistant CaO, NgO, SiO2, NiO, Y2o3, or lanthanide oxide having an average particle size of 0.5 to 1.5 pm. 5 B, A1N, B4C, or a boride of Si, Y, Lanthanide, or a transition metal belonging to Groups IVa, Va, and VIa having an average particle size of 0.5 to S lira. The mixing ratios of these components are shown in Table 2. The body powder was sintered in a graphite mold by pressure sintering method under a pressure of 200 kg cm2 for 15 minutes. The sintering temperature is shown in Table 2. The resulting sintered body was ground by using a diamond wheel to achieve SNGN 432 TN and a surface roughness lower than 3S according to JIS . The ground sample was examined for hardness. The ground sample was also subjected to a cutting test under the following conditions. The results are shown in Table 2. Work FC 23 Cutting conditions Cutting speed V 150 m min Feed rate f 0.6 mm rev Depth of cut t 2 mm Judgement of life The life is judged by counting the number of raised parts which can be formed by cutting a rod 120 mm in diameter until failure occurs. Each raised part is 10 mm wide and the raised parts are formed at intervals of 5 mm. TABLE 2 SiC Sintering sintering Hard CuttingSample No.Al2O3 Whisker ZrO2 Assistant Additives Temp. ness Life wt wt wt wt wt C 45N Example 2 2 1 47 40 10 CaO 2 TiB2 1 1800 91.2 29 2 2 61 20 15 MgO 2 AIN 2 1700 90.4 25 2 3 51 10 30 Y2O3 3 MOB 6 1650 90.0 23 2 4 65.95 7 25 DY2O3 2 B 0.05 1650 89.5 20 2 5 46.8 45 7 MgO 1 B 0.2 1850 91.5 31 2 6 45 35 13 Y2O3 2 NiO 4 AIN 1 1750 91.0 29 2 7 61 10 22 DY2O3 1 SiO2 4 WB 2 1650 90.0 21 2 8 64 15 18 CaO2 1 MgO 1 TaB 1 1700 90.3 23 2 9 66 10 20 MgO 1 NiO 1 AIN 2 1650 90.1 19 2 10 56 15 25 Y2O3 1 Dy2O3 2 HCB2 1 1650 90.6 24 2 11 46.5 40 10 MgO 1 Dy2O3 1 B 0.5 1800 91.3 28 2 12 72.5 15 9 CaO 3 ZrB2 0.5 1650 90.7 25 2 13 60 25 13 MgO 1 YB6 1 1750 90.9 30 2 14 48.9 30 18 CaO 2 Y2O3 1 B 0.1 1750 91.2 28 2 15 50.5 35 10 Y2O3 2 SiO3 1 AIN 1 B 0.5 1800 91.2 31Comparative 2 16 27 55 15 Y2O3 2 SiO2 1 YB6 1 1850 89.2 9Example 2 2 17 27.5 30 40 Y2O3 2 ZrB2 0.5 1750 90.0 2 2 18 44 15 30 MgO 9 WB 2 1700 89.0 4 2 19 55 25 10 CaO 2 B B 1750 91.8 1 2 20 46.99 45 7 Y2O3 1 AIN 0.01 1800 90.6 12 Number of raised parts cut until failure. EXAMPLE 3 AND COMPARATIVE EXAMPLE 3 A body powder ready to sinter was prepared by mixing the following components in a ball mill for 12 hours, followed by drying. 1 A1203 powder having an average particle size of 0.7 pm. 2 SiC whisker having a diameter of 0.1 to 1.0 m mostly 0.2 to 0.5 vim , a length of 50 to 200 vm, an aspect ratio of 50 to 300, and a density of 3.19 9 cm3. t3 Sintering assistant MgO, CaO, Y2O3, or lanthanide oxide having an average particle size smaller than 2 pm. 4 Oxide, nitride, carbide, or boride of Ti, V, Nb,Ta, Mo, or W having an average particle size of 0.5 to 2 um. 5 Al, A1N, B, C, B4C, or a boride of Si, Al, Y, lanthanide, or actinide having an average particle size of 0.5 to 2 um. The mixing ratios of these components are shown in Table 3. The body powder was molded and sintered in either of the following manners. a Hot pressing The body powder was sintered in a graphite mold under a pressure of 200 kg cm2 for 15 minutes. The sintering temperature is shown in Table 3. b Hot hydrostatic pressing The body powder was incorporated with 4 wt of paraffin, and the mixture was passed through a 60 mesh sieve. The powder was subjected to pressure molding under a pressure of 1 ton cm2, and the compact was sintered in an atmosphere of argon under reduced pressure for 1 hour. The sintering temperature is shown in Table 3. The resulting sintered body was fired by hot hydrostatic pressing at 15500C and 1500 atm, for 1 hour. The resulting sintered body had substantially the same composition as the body powder. In comparativeExamples, the content of the constituent outside the range specified in this invention is marked with an asterisk. The resulting sintered body was ground by using a diamond wheel to achieve SNGN 432 TN and a surface roughness lower than 3S according to JIS . The ground sample was examined for hardness. The ground sample was also subjected to a cutting test under the following conditions. The results are shown in Table 3. Work SCM420, carburized and hardened Hv800 Cutting speed V 80 m min Feed rate f 0.12 mm rev Depth of cut t 0.15 mm Cutting fluid water soluble Judgement of life min Time of cutting until failure occurs. As shown in Table 3, the sintered material of this invention is superior to the one inComparative Example in abrasion resistance and cutting performance. TABLE 3 Sinter of Pro Cut Sintering SiC ing duction Hard tingSample No. Al2O3 Additives Assistant Whisker Additives Temp. a or b ness life wt wt wt wt wt C H45N min Exqample 3 3 1 58 TiC MgO 2 10 1880 a 90.5 50 3 2 44.5 TiC 25 TiO2 8 MgO 1 Y2O3 1.5 20 1830 a 91.1 43 3 3 51 TiC 15 Ta 2 CaO 1 Dy2O3 1 30 1750 b 90.4 66 3 4 43 WC 5 TiN 5 MgO 2 45 1800 b 89.5 37 3 5 43 TiC 20 WB 10 MgO 1 Dy2O3 1 25 AIN 3 1800 a 91.1 43 3 6 60 TiC 25 TaC 5 Y2O3 1 8 B 1 1800 a 90.8 60 3 7 35.5 TiC 10 HfC 8 Dy2O3 3 43 C 0.5 1900 a 90.1 30 3 8 46.5 TiC 30 Ti 5 CaO 1 Y2O3 1 15 ZrB2 1.2 1850 a 91.4 75 3 9 52.5 TaC 7 v 3 MgO 2 35 B4C 0.8 1850 a 89.4 40 3 10 54 TiC 10 Dy2O3 1.5 30 AIN 1 WB 3.5 1850 a 89.5 48 3 11 54 TiB2 18 CaO 1 Y2O3 2 23 YB6 2 1770 b 90.0 33 3 12 54.4 TiC 15 TiB2 10 MgO 1.5 CaO 1 17 MoB6 1 1740 b 91.2 63 3 13 36 TiC 28 Ta 2 MgO 1 Dy2O3 2 30 AIN 1 1770 b 91.3 71 3 14 64 TiC 10 TiO2 3 Y2O3 1.5 20 ThB4 1.5 1700 b 90.7 45 3 15 50.9 TiC 15 HfO2 7 ErO3 2 25 DyB4 0.1 1740 b 90.2 41Comparative 3 16 12 TiC 15 McB2 10 CaO 3 60 1950 a 87.5 5Example 3 3 17 78 TiB2 20 MgO 1 Y2O3 1 1700 b 90.4 1 3 18 31 TiC2 40 TiO2 5 CaO 1 MgO 2 20 B 1 1900 a 90.1 7 3 19 45.5 TaC 10 TiN 5 MgO 4 Dy2O3 4 30 YB6 1.5 1650 a 88.2 0.1 3 20 72.5 Y2O3 1 Ho2O3 1 25 B4C 0.5 1600 b 88.5 15 3 21 44 TiC 30 Y2O3 1 15 C 10 1700 b 88.0 0.1 EXAMPLE 4 AND COMPARATIVE EXAMPLE 4 A body powder ready to sinter was prepared by mixing the following components in a ball mill for 12 hours, followed by drying. 1 A1203 powder having an average particle size of 0.7 pm. 2 ZrO2 powder having an average particle diameter of 0.6 um. 3 SiC whisker having a diameter of 0.1 to 1.0 um mostly 0.2 to 0.5 vim , a length of 50 to 200 vm, an aspect ratio of 50 to 500, and a density of 3.19 g cm3. 4 Sintering assistant MgO, CaO, Y2O3, or lanthanide oxide having an average particle size smaller than 2 um. 5 Oxide, nitride, carbide, or boride of a transition metal belonging to Groups IVa, Va, and VIa of the Periodic Table having an average particle size of 0.5 to 2 um. 6 Al, A1N, B, C, B4C, or a boride of Si, Al, Y, lanthanide, or actinide having an average particle size of 0.5 to 2 um. The mixing ratios of these components are shown in Table 4. The body powder was molded and sintered in either of the following manners. a Hot pressing The body powder was sintered in a graphite mold under a pressure of 200 kg ci2 for 15 minutes. The sintered temperature is shown in Table 4. b Hot hydrostatic pressing The body powder was incorporated with 4 wt of paraffin, and the mixture was passed through a 60 mesh sieve. The powder was subjected to pressure molding under a pressure of 1 ton cm2, and the compact was sintered in an atmosphere of argon under reduced pressure for 1 hour.The sintering temperature is shown in Table 4. The resulting sintered body was fired by hot hydrostatic pressing at 15500C and 1500 atm, for 1 hour. The resulting sintered body had substantially the same composition as the body powder. In ComparativeExamples, the content of the constituent outside the range specified in this invention is marked with an asterisk. The resulting sintered body was ground by using a diamond wheel to achieve SNGN 432 TN and a surface roughness lower than 3S according to JIS . The ground sample was examined for hardness. The ground sample was also subjected to a cutting test under the following conditions. The results are shown in Table 4. Work SCM420, carburized and hardened Hv720 Cutting speed V 120 m min Feed rate f a 0.1 mm rev Depth of cut t 0.3 mm Cutting fluid water soluble Judgement of life min Time of cutting until failure occurs. As shown in Table 4, the sintered material of this invention is superior to the one inComparative Example in abrasion resistance and cutting performance. TABLE Method Sinter of Pro Cut Sintering SiC ing duction Hard tingSample No. Al2O3 ZrO2 Additives Assistant Whisker Additives Temp. a or b ness life wt wt wt wt wt wt C H45N min Example 4 4 1 62 15 TiC 10 Ta 2 MgO 1 10 1750 a 91.0 35 4 2 61 8 TiC 15 TiN 3 MgO 1 12 1750 a 90.2 36 4 3 59.5 20 WC 2 HfC 2 CaO 1 Y2O3 0.5 15 5700 b 90.0 33 4 4 44 4 TiB2 5 MgO 1 Dy2O3 1 45 1800 b 91.8 39 4 5 47 35 TaC 10 MgO 1 6 AIN 1 1650 a 90.3 44 4 6 44.4 12 TiC 20 Ti 2 MgO 1 20 B 0.1 1800 a 91.2 40 4 7 58.5 17 TiC 10 TiB2 5 CaO 1 8 YB6 0.5 1750 a 90.8 42 4 8 56.5 22 TiC 5 TaC 5 CaO 1 10 B4C 0.5 1700 a 90.4 45 4 9 45.4 9 TaC 10 TiO2 2 MgO 1 Dy2O3 1.5 30 B 0.1 AIN 1 1700 a 91.3 38 4 10 64 14 HfO2 4 Y2O3 1 13 WB 4 1600 b 91.0 40 4 11 51 19 TiC 15 TiO2 1 MgO 1 Dy2O3 1 11 AIN 1 1700 b 91.1 45 4 12 43.5 10 TiC 30 Y2O3 1.5 CaO 2 10 TiB2 3 1850 b 91.5 41 4 13 59.5 8 HfO2 4 MgO 3 25 SiB4 0.5 1700 b 90.0 42 4 14 63 13 TiN 2 VC 2 MgO 3 15 AIN 2 1650 b 90.3 37 4 15 58 7 WB 1 CaO 1 Dy2O3 2 30 B 0.5 C 0.5 1700 b 91.0 40Comparatie 4 16 65 1 TiC 20 MgO 1 10 C 3 1750 a 90.8 18Example 4 4 17 28 12 TiB 30 WC 20 CaO 2 7 B 1 1900 a 90.1 0.1 4 18 43 20 TiC 10 VC 3 MgO 9 15 1650 b 89.2 0.1 4 19 26 10 TaC 5 Y2O3 3 55 TiB 1 1750 b 89.4 5 4 20 44 7 WC 10 Dy2O3 2 30 B 7 1750 b 87.5 0.1 While the invention has been described in detail and with reference to specific embodiments thereof, it will be apparent to one skilled in the art that various changes and modifications can be made therein without departing from the spirit and scope thereof.