# Hydraulic control system.

## Abstract
A hydraulic control system comprising a hydraulic actua tor 20 having opposed openings A, B adapted to alternately functions as inlets and outlets for moving the element 21 of the actuator 20 in opposite directions and a variable dis placement pump 22 with load sensing control for supplying fluid to said actuator. A pilot operated spool type meter in valve 27 is provided to which the fluid from the pump 22 is supplied and a pilot controller 23 alternately supplies fluid at pilot pressure to the meter in valve 27 for controlling the dis placement of the meter in valve spool 51 and the direction and velocity of the actuator 20 . A pair of lines 32,33 extends from the meter in valve 27 to the respective openings A, B of the actuator 20 and a pilot operated meter out valve 34, 35 is associated with each line 32,33 of the actuator 20 for controlling the flow out of the actuator 20 when that line 32, 35 to the actuator 20 does not have pressure fluid from the pump 22 applied thereto. Pressure of fluid in the line 32, 33 to the actuator. which does not have pressure fluid from the pump, is applied to the meter in valve 27 to apply a centering force which aids the pressure compensating flow forces to keep the flow constant.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1 . A hydraulic control system comprising a hydraulic actuator 20 having opposed openings A, B adapted to alternately function as inlets and outlets for moving the element 21 of the actuator in opposite directions, a pump 22 for supplying fluid to said actuator 20 , a meter in valve 27 to which the fluid from the pump 22 is supplied, said valve 27 being pilot controlled, a pilot controller 23 for alternately supplying fluid at pilot pressure to said meter in valve 27 for controlling the direction of movement of the meterin valve 27 , means for directing pressure in one line 32 or 33 from the actuator 20 , which does not have pressure fluid from the pump, to the meter in valve 27 in a direction to apply a centering force which aids the pressure compensating flow forces to keep the flow constant. 2. The hydraulic control system set forth in claim 1 wherein said last mentioned means comprises said meter in valve means 27 comprising a spool 51 adapted to be actuated by pilot pressure, spring means 52 adapted to center said spool 51 in a neutral position, said spool 51 having a least one axial chamber 91a , at least one pin 90a sliding in said axial chamber 91a , and passage means 92a, 92b, 93 in said spool 51 providing communication between said chamber 51a and the line to the actuator 20 . 3. The hydraulic control system set forth in claim 2 wherein said passage means 92a, 92b, 93 comprises a radial opening 92a or 92b . 4. The hydraulic control system set forth in claim 3 including a load sensing bleed passage 94a in said spool 51 and associated with said pin 90a such that when the meter in spool 51 is in neutral, any load pressure will act through first mentioned radial opening 92a or 92b to force the pin 90a axially outwardly and bleed the load pressure through the load sensing bleed passage 94a . 5. The hydraulic control system set forth in any of claims 1 4 wherein said spool 51 has a second axial chamber 91b opposed to the first mentioned axial chamber 91a . 6. The hydraulic control system set forth in claim 5 including a second pin 90b in said axial chamber 91b , and a second radial opening 92b and a second load sensing bleed passage 94b associated with said second pin 90b .

## Description
POWER TRANSMISSION This invention relates to power transmission and particularly to a hydraulic circuit for actuators such as are found in earth moving equipment including excavators and cranes. BACKGROUND AND SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION In United States Patent 4,201,052, there is disclosed a hydraulic circuit control system comprising actuator having opposed openings adapted to alternately function as inlets and outlets for moving the element of the actuator in opposite directions and a variable displacement pump with loading sensing control for supplying fluid to said actuator. A pilot operated spool type meter in valve is provided to which the fluid from the pump is supplied and a pilot controller alternately supplies fluid at pilot pressure to the meter in valve for controlling the direction and displacement of movement of the meter in valve and the direction and velocity of the actuator.A pair of lines extend from the meter in valve to the respective openings of the actuator and a pilot operated meter out valve is associated with each line to the actuator for controlling the flow out of the actuator when that line to the actuator does not have pressure fluid from the pump applied thereto. In such a hydraulic circuit, pressure compensation, and resultant constant flow, is achieved by utilization of flow forces in conjunction with the spring rate which tend to center the spool of the meter in valve. The amount of pressure compensation may allow variation in flow when the pressure drop varies from the normal load sensing point. In most cases, this performance is acceptable and the operator would not notice the change in flow in operating the actuator. However, in some cases, particularly motor applications, greater accuracy may be needed. Accordingly, among the objections of the present invention is to provide greater accuracy of pressure compensation at low cost. In accordance with the invention, pressure of fluid in the line to actuator, which does not have pressure fluid from the pump, is applied to the meter in valve to apply a centering force which aids the pressure compensating flow forces to keep the flow constant. More specifically, feedback pins are associated with the spool of the meter in valve and pressure from the line to the actuator which does not have pump pressure applied thereto, is applied to one of the pins to apply a centering force on the spool of the meter in valve which aids the pressure compensating flow forces to keep the flow constant. DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS FIG. 1 is a diagrammatic view of a prior art hydraulic system. FIG. 2 is a diagrammatic view of a meter in valve utilized in the system. FIG. 3 is a diagrammatic view of a meter out valve. FIG. 4 is a diagrammatic view of a port relief valve and meter out valve. FIG. 5 is a diagrammatic view of a portion of hydraulic system embodying the invention. FIG. 6 are curves of flow versus delivery pressure of a prior art hydraulic system. PIG. 7 are curves of flow versus delivery pressure of a hydraulic system embodying the invention. DESCRIPTION This invention relates to hydraulic control systems such as shown in United States Patent 4,201,052, which is incorporated herein by reference. Referring to FIG. 1, such a hydraulic system comprises an actuator 20, herein shown as a hydraulic cylinder, having a rod 21, that is moved in opposite directions by hydraulic fluid supplied from a variable displacement pump system 22 which has load sensing control in accordance with conventional construction. The hydraulic system further includes a manually operated controller 23 that directs a pilot pressure to a valve system 24 for controlling the direction of movement of the actuator, as presently described. Fluid from the pump 22 is directed to the line 25 and passages 26 to a meter in valve 27 that functions to direct and control the flow of hydraulic fluid to one or the other end of the actuator 20. The meter in valve 27 is pilot pressure controlled by controller 23 through lines 28, 29 and passages 30, 31 to the opposed ends thereof, as presently described.Depending upon the direction of movement of the valve, hydraulic fluid passes through passages 32, 33 to one or the other end of the actuator 20. The hydraulic system further includes a meter out valve 34, 35 associated with each end of the actuator in passages 32, 33 for controlling the flow of fluid from the end of the actuator to which hydraulic fluid is not flowing from the pump to a tank passage 36, as presently described. The hydraulic system further includes spring loaded poppet valves 37, 38 in the lines 32, 33 and spring loaded anticavitation valves 39, 40 which are adapted to open lines 32, 33 to the tank passage 36. In addition, spring loaded poppet valves 41, 42 are associated with each meter out valve 34, 35 as presently described. A bleed line 47 having an orifice 49 extends from passage 36 to meter out valves 34, 35 and to the pilot control lines 28, 29 through check valves 77. The system also includes a back pressure valve 44 associated with the return or tank line. Back pressure valve 44 functions to minimize cavitation when an overrunning or a lowering load tends to drive the actuator down. A charge pump relief valve 45 is provided to take excess flow above the inlet requirements of the pump 22 and apply it to the back pressure valve 44 to augment the fluid available to the actuator. Referring to FIG. 2, the meter in valve 27 comprises a bore 50 in which a spool 51 is positioned and in the absence of pilot pressure maintained in a neutral position by springs 52. The spool 51 normally blocks the flow from the pressure passage 26 to the passages 32, 33. When pilot pressure is applied to either passage 30 or 31, the meter in spool 51 is moved in the direction of the pressure until a force balance exists among the pilot pressure, the spring load and the flow forces. The direction of movement determines which of the passages 32, 33 is provided with fluid under pressure from passage 26. Referring to FIG. 3, each meter out valve 34, 35 is of identical construction and, for purposes of clarity, only valve 34 is described. The meter out valve 34 includes a bore 60 in which a poppet 61 is positioned. The poppet 61 includes a passage 62 extending to a chamber 63 within the poppet and one or more passages 64 to the tank passage 36. A stem 65 normally closes the connection between the chamber 63 and passages 64 under the action of a spring 66. The pressure in chamber 63 equalizes with the pressure in line 32 and the resulting force unbalance keeps poppet 61 seated. The valve further includes a piston 67 surrounding the stem 65 yieldingly urged by a spring 68 to the right as viewed in FIG. 3. The pilot line 28 from the controller 23 extends through a passage 69 to a chamber 70 that acts against the piston 67.When pilot pressure is applied to passage 28, the piston 67 is moved to the left as viewed inFIG. 3 moving the stem 65 to the left permitting chamber 63 to be vented to tank passage 36 via passage 64. The resulting force unbalance causes poppet 61 to move to the left connecting line 32 to passage 36. It can thus be seen that the same pilot pressure which functions to determine the direction of opening of the meterin valve also functions to determine and control the opening of the appropriate meter out valve so that the fluid in the actuator can return to the tank line. Referring to PIG. 4, each of the meter out valves has associated therewith a spring loaded pilot spool 71 which functions when the load pressure in passage 32 exceeds a predetermined value to open a flow path from the load through a control orifice 62 to the tank passage 36 through an intermediate passage 73. This bleed flow reduces the pressure and closing force on the left end of the poppet valve 61 permitting the valve 61 to move to the left and allowing flow from passage 32 to the return or tank line 36. In order to prevent overshoot when the pressure rises rapidly, an orifice 72 and associated chamber 72a are provided so that there is a delay in the pressure build up to the left of poppet valve 71. As a result, poppet valves 71 and 61 will open sooner and thereby control the rate of pressure rise and minimize overshoot. In the case of an energy absorbing load, when the controller 23 is moved to operate the actuator 20 in a predetermined direction, pilot pressure applied through line 28 and passage 30 moves the spool of the meter in valve to the right causing hydraulic fluid under pressure to flow through passage 33 opening poppet valve 38 and continuing to the inlet B of actuator 20. The same pilot pressure is applied to the meter out valve 34 permitting the flow of fluid out of the end A of the actuator 20 to the return or tank passage 36. When the controller 23 is moved to operate the actuator, for example, for an overrunning or lowering a load, the controller 23 is moved so that pilot pressure is applied to the line 28. The meter out valve 34 opens before the meter in valve 27 under the influence of pilot pressure. The load on the actuator forces hydraulic fluid through the opening A of the actuator past the meter out valve 34 to the return or tank passage 36. At the same time, the poppet valve 40 is opened permitting return of some of the fluid to the other end of the actuator through opening B thereby avoiding cavitation. Thus, the fluid is supplied to the other end of the actuator without opening the meter in valve 27 and without utilizing fluid from the pump. To achieve a float position, the controller 23 is bypassed and pilot pressure is applied to both pilot pressure lines 28, 29. This is achieved, for example, by the use of solenoid operated valves, not shown, which bypass controller 23 when energized and apply the fluid from pilot pump 76 directly to lines 28, 29 causing both meter out valves 34 to open and thereby permit both ends of the actuator to be connected to tank pressure. In this situation, the meter out valves function in a manner that the stem of each is fully shifted permitting fluid to flow back and forth between opposed ends of the cylinder, as described in United States Patent No. 4,201,052, which is incorporated herein by reference. Where the pressure in the return from end A of the actuator is excessive, the pilot spool 71 functions to permit the poppet valve 61 to open and thereby compensate for the increased pressure as well as permit additional flow to the actuator 20 through opening of the poppet valve. 40 extending to the passage which extends to the other end of the actuator. By varying the spring forces and the areas on the meter in valve 27 and the meter out valves 34, 35, the timing between these valves can be controlled. Thus, for example, if the timing is adjusted so that the meter out valve leads the meter in valve, the meter in valve will control flow and speed in the case where the actuator is being driven. In such an arrangement with an overhauling load, the load generated pressure will result in the meter out valve controlling flow and speed. In such a situation, the anti cavitation check valves 39, 40 will permit fluid to flow to the supply side of the actuator so that no pump flow is needed to fill the actuator in an overhauling load mode or condition. With this knowledge of independent control of the meter out and meter in valves, varying metering arrangements can be made to accommodate the type of loading situation encountered by the particular actuator. Where there are primarily energy absorbing or driving loads, the spring and areas of the meter out valve can be controlled so that the meter out valve opens quickly before the meter in valve opens.In the case of primarily overrunning loads, the meter out valve can be caused to open gradually but much sooner than the meterin valve so that the meter out valve is the primary control. A check valve 77 is provided in a branch 78 of each pilot line 28, 29 adjacent each meter out valve 34, 35. The valves 77 allow fluid to bleed from the high tank pressure in passage 36, which fluid is relatively warm, and to circulate through pilot lines 28, 29 back to the controller 23 and the fluid reservoir when no pilot pressure is applied to the pilot lines 28, 29. When pilot pressure is applied to a pilot line, the respective check valve 77 closes isolating the pilot pressure from the tank pressure. Provision is made for sensing the maximum load pressure in one of a series of valve systems 24 controlling a plurality of actuators and applying that higher pressure to the load sensitive variable displacement pump 22. Each valve system 24 includes a line 79 extending to a shuttle valve 80 that receives load pressure from an adjacent actuator through line 81. Shuttle valve 80 senses which of the two pressures is greater and shifts to apply the same to a shuttle valve 82 through line 83. A line 84 extends from passage 32 to shuttle valve 82. Shuttle valve 82 senses which of the pressures is greater and shifts to apply the higher pressure to pump 22.Thus, each valve system in succession incorporates shuttle valves 80, 82 which compare the load pressure therein with the load pressure of an adjacent valve system and transmit the higher pressure to the adjacent valve system in succession and finally apply the highest load pressure to pump 22. The provision of the load sensing system and the two load drop check valves 37, 38 provide for venting of the meterin valve in neutral so that no orifices are required in the load sensing lines which would result in a horsepower loss during operation which would permit flow from the load during build up of pressure in the sensing lines. In addition, there will be no cylinder drift if other actuators are in operation. Further, the load drop check valves 37, 38 eliminate the need for close tolerances between the spool 51 and the bore 50. In such a hydraulic circuit, pressure compensation, and resultant contains flow, is achieved by utilization of flow forces in comparison with the spring rate which tend to center the spool of the meter in valve. The amount of pressure compensation may allow variation in flow when the pressure drop varies from the normal load sensing point. In most cases, this performance is acceptablend the operator would not notice the change in flow in operating the actuator. However, in some cases, particularly motor applications, greater accuracy may be needed. In accordance with the invention, pressure of fluid in the line to the actuator, which does not have pressure fluid from the pump, is applied to the meter in valve to apply a centering force which aids the pressure compensating flow forces to keep the flow constant. Referring to FIG. 5, the load drop check valves 37, 38, are removed. The meter in valve spool 51 is provided with pins 90a, 90b sliding in axial chambers 91a, 91b in the ends of spool 51. Chambers 91a, 91b are connected to the two cylinder ports A and B by radial openings 92a, 92b in the spool 27. An axial passage 93 interconnects chambers 91a, 91b. Load sensing radial bleed holes 94a, 94b are provided in the spool axially outwardly of openings 92a, 92b. When the meter in spool 51 is in neutral, any load pressure either in A or B port will act through openings 92a or 92b on pins 90a or 90b, pushing them outward and hence bleeding load pressure through load sensing bleed holes 94a or 94b, through lines 28, 29 and through controller 23 back to tank. When pilot pressure is, for example, admitted in line 29, the meter in spool 51 is shifted to the left and fluid flow from inlet 26 is ported to cylinder port A. The radial opening 92a will be closed off by the valve bore wall whereas the other radial opening 92b remains connected to passage 33 so that fluid in the chambers 91a, 91b and the axial passage 93 assumes pressure of the passage 33 and, therefore, cylinder port B pressure. Therefore, both feedback pins 90a, 90b will be exposed to cylinder port B pressure.Since the pilot pressure is always higher than the pressure of returning flow here cylinder port B pressure , the feedback pin 90b will be kept in the inner end of chamber 91b. The port B pressure will, however, act upon feedback pin 90a, and push it outwardly to the valve bore end or an end cap. The pressure in cylinder port B is proportional to flow for a constant pilot pressure since the meter out element metering area to tank is constant. A centering force proportional to the cross section of pin 90a and to port B pressure is thus exerted on the meter in spool 51 which will aid the pressure compensating flow forces to keep the flow constant. In case the flow increases, due to a larger pressure drop across the meter in spool, the pressure drop over the meter out element 35 or 34 as the case is will also increase since the area remains constant . This increased pressure will act upon the feedback pin 9Oa and center the meter in spool 51, thus. reducing the flow so that it is substantially constant. Referring to FIG. 6, which is a series of curves of flow versus meter in spool pressure drop, of the hydraulic control circuit shown, it can be seen that the flow is not as constant as in FIG. 7, which are curves of a hydraulic control circuit embodying the invention.