# SILVER HALIDE PHOTOGRAPHIC MATERIAL

## Claims
Photographisches Silberhalogenid Aufzeichnungsmaterial mit mindestens einer blauempfindlichen Silberhalogenidemulsionsschicht mit einem Acetanilidgelbkuppler, einer Silberdichte d , bestimmt durch folgende Gleichung

## Description
The present invention relates to a silver halide photographic material. Silver halide color photographic materials, particularly silver halide photographic materials for photographing use, has always been desired to be highly sensitive and excellent in the image quality. Particularly, with the recent popularlization of portable miniature cameras in the photographic field, even a small size negative has become demanded to give an image comparable in the quality with that from a large size negative. So to speak, there has been a strong demand for the development of a silver halide color photographic material whose resolution as well as sharpness is not degraded even in a large magnification. Various techniques have been conventionally known for improving the sharpness. One of the techniques is for the improvement of the edge effect, and another is for the prevention of light scattering. Examples of the edge effect improving technique include the method using an unsharp mask in the printing field and the method using a DIR coupler for color negative film. Of these the method using an unsharp mask has its limit of practical use because its process is complex. There are many known methods using DIR couplers useful examples of the DIR coupler include those compounds as described in Japanese Patent Examined Publication Nos. 34933 1980, Japanese Patent Publication Open to Public Inspection hereinafter referred to as Japanese Patent O.P.I. Publication No. 93344 1982, U.S. Patent Nos. 3,227,554, 3,615,506, 3,617,291 and 3,701,783. However, where a DIR coupler is used to stress the edge effect, the MTF modulation transfer function , although it is improved in a lower frequency region, cannot be expected to be improved in a higher frequency region required necessary for a high magnification, and is accompanied by an adverse side effect such as the deterioration of sensitivity or of density. If a DIR coupler capable of extending its effect away such as a diffusible DIR or timing DIR coupler is used, the deterioration of sensitivity or density could be lessened, but the improvement is no more than a shift of the Modulation Transfer Function MTF toward the lower frequency side, and no high magnification cannot be expected. On the other hand, those known as the technique for preventing light scattering include the method for coarsening silver halide emulsion grains, the method of adding a coloring material and the method of reducing the layer thickness. The first mentioned method is known for improving the image sharpness by coarsening the grain size of silver halide grains up to the degree where light scattering is minimized. This technique, however, has the disadvantage that the coarsened grains give a visual impression of the deterioration of graininess. The second method is an attempt to improve the image sharpness by the addition of a coloring material, known examples of which include the method for coating an antihalation layer as described in West German OLS Patent No. 2711220, and the method of incorporating a filter dye into a protective layer as described in Japanese Patent O.P.I. Publication No. 161235 1980. These techniques, however, are disadvantageous in respect of decreasing the photographic speed, throwing out of the color balance and increasing fog of a photographic material. Known as the third method for reducing the layer thickness is the method of largely reducing the coating amount of silver. However, if the coating amount of silver is largely reduced, then the active site is reduced, thereby inviting the deterioration of graininess. The reduction of the layer thickness is also carried out by reducing the gelatin, coupler or coupler solvent in a coating liquid. However, any of these methods is undesirable in respect of inviting the deterioration of the coatability or density of the color formed. It is therefore a first object of the present invention to provide a silver halide photographic material improved on the sharpness. It is a second object of the present invention to provide a silver halide photographic material improved on the sharpness without being degraded in the graininess. It is a third object of the present invention to provide a silver halide photographic material having a high photographic speed and improved on the sharpness. It is a fourth object of the present invention to provide a silver halide photographic material improved on the interimage effect. It is a fifth object of the present invention to provide a silver halide photographic material improved on the desilverizability. It is a sixth object of the present invention to provide a silver halide photographic material improved so as to produced little or no fog. The above mentioned objects have been accomplished by a silver halide photographic material comprising at least one blue sensitive silver halide emulsion layer containing an acetanilide yellow coupler, the silver density d expressed in terms of the following equation The present invention, since it is based on an idea quite different from the afore mentioned conventional techniques and particularly the silver density d of the blue sensitive silver halide emulsion layer is settled in a range as inconceivably wide as d 4.0x10 ¹ g cm³, enables to improve the graininess as well as the sharpness, and also largely improve the interimage effect, desilverizability and photographic speed. By using in the blue sensitive emulsion layer a benzoyl type yellow coupler a prominent significant effect of this invention can be displayed. In addition, the above mentioned volume of the blue sensitive emulsion layer is expressed in terms of the product of the coating area multiplied by the value of the dry thickness of the emulsion layer. If the blue sensitive emulsion layer is comprised of two or more layers, the amount of silver and the volume of the layer are calculated as their total values in the respective emulsion layers. The above silver density in this invention should be not less than 4x10 ¹g cm³ to accomplish the objects of this invention. However, in consideration of the graininess and fog, the silver density is preferably not more than 2.0g cm³, and more preferably in the range of from 5.0x10 ¹g cm³ to 1.2g cm³. The dry thickness of the foregoing blue sensitive silver halide emulsion layer should as a whole be not more than 4.0µm. However, if the dry thickness is extremely thin, there arise problems in the coatability, characteristics against pressure, stability of emulsified additives, and color formability, so that it is preferably not less than 0.8µm, and more preferably in the range of from 1.0µm to 3.8µm. In the present invention, the silver amount measuring method to be used for determining the above silver density is made in accordance with the atomic absorption anaylysis. And regarding the thickness for determining the volume of the emulsion layer, the cross section of a dry sample is electron microscopically enlarged, and on the enlarged image the thicknesses of the respective layers are measured. Applicable benzoylacetanilide type yellow couplers to the blue sensitive emulsion layer known in the art. Examples of the benzoyl type coupler usable of the blue sensitive emulsion layer include those yellow dye image forming couplers having the following general formula I wherein R¹, R² and R³ are allowed to be either the same as or different from one another and each is a hydrogen atom, a halogen atom e.g., fluorine, chlorine, bromine , an alkyl group such as methyl, ethyl, allyl, dodecyl , an aryl group such as phenyl, naphthyl , an alkoxy group such as methoxy, ethoxy, dodecyloxy , an acylamino group such as acetamido, α p dodecyloxyphenoxy butaneamido , a carbamoyl group such as carbamoyl, N,N dimethylcarbamoyl, N δ 2,4 di tert aminophenoxy , butylcarbamoyl , an alkoxycarbonyl such as ethoxycarbonyl, dodecyloxycarbonyl, α dodecyloxycarbonyl ethoxycarbonyl , a sulfonamido group such as methanesulfonamido, p dodecyloxybenzenesulfonamido, N benzyldodecanesulfonamido , or a sulfamoyl group such as sulfamoyl, N methylsulfamoyl, N δ 2,4 di tert amylphenoxy butylsulfamoyl, N,N diethylsulfamoyl Suitable groups as the splittable group are those having the following general formula II wherein Y is a group of nonmetallic atoms necessary to form a 5 to 6 member cyclic ring representing a cyclic compound such as, e.g., 2,5 dioxo imidazoline, 2,5 pyrrolidinedione, 1,3 isoindoledione, 2,3,5 trioxo imidazoline, 2,5 dioxo triazolidine, 2,4 oxazolidinedione, 2,4 thiazolidinedione, 2 1H pyridone, 2 1H pyrimidone, 2 1H pyrazone, 5 1H imidazolone, 5 1H triazolone, 2 1H pyrimidone, 2 pyrazolone 5 , 2 isothiazolone 5 , 2 1H quinaoxazolone, 4 3H pyrimidone, 2 benzoxazolone, 4 isooxazolone 5 , 3 pyrazolone, 2 tetrazolone 5 and 3 tetrazolone 5 . The following are examples of those yellow couplers having Formula I These yellow couplers suitably usable in this invention may be used in combination with other yellow couplers. In the blue sensitive emulsion layer the coupler is used in the quantity range of from 0.1 mole to 30 moles per mole of silver, and preferably from 1.0 mole to 20 moles. The incorporation of the coupler into the silver halide emulsion layer may be carried out by any of known methods such as those described in U.S. Patent No. 2,322,027. For example, the coupler is dissolved into a solvent such as a alkyl phthalate dibutyl phthalate, dioctyl phthalate , phosphate such as diphenyl phosphate, triphenyl phosphate, tricresyl phosphate, dioctylbutyl phosphate , citrate such as tributylacetyl citrate , benzoate such as octyl benzoate , alkylamide such as diethyl layrylamide , fatty acid ester such as dibutoxyethyl succinate, dioctyl azelate and trimesic acid ester such as tributyl trimesate , or into an organic solvent whose boiling point is 30 to 150 C, e.g., an alkyl acetate such as ethyl acetate, butyl acetate or ethyl propionate, secondary butyl alcohol, methyl isobutyl ketone, β ethoxyethyl acetate and methylcellosolve acetate and after that the solution is dispersed into a hydrophilic colloid. The above mentioned high boiling organic solvent and low boiling solvent may be used in a mixture. It is preferred that the blue sensitive silver halide emulsion layers at a photographic material according to the invention are to contain a scavenger for the oxidation products of a developing agent, i.e., a dye stain inhibitor hereinafter called an AS agent , so as to inhibit a dye stain. The particularly preferable scavengers are the high speed reactive ones having a relative reaction rate which will be defined later of from not lower than 1.6 to not higher than 15.0. When a blue sensitive silver halide emulsion layers contains the above mentioned scavenger, a further finer graininess may be obtained, because of the synergistic effect of the combination of the scavenger in the layer and the silver in the above mentioned density range. When using such a high reaction type coupler as described above, the remarkable effects may be enjoyed, such as that the graininess of an emulsion may be improved with making the sharpness excellent and the sensitivity may also be increased. The above mentioned relative reaction rate of the AS agents is preferred to be from not lower than 1.6 to not higher than 15.0 so as to achieve the objects of the invention. If the rate is too fast, the sensitivity will be lowered and it is, therefore, the upper limit thereof is to be 15.0. A further poreferred relative reaction rate is from 1.6 to 10.0. Now, a relative reaction rate of an AS agent shall be defined as follows Such a relative reaction rate may be determined, as a relative value, through the measurement of an amount of dyes contained in a dye image obtained in such a manner that a scavenger is mixed up with the above mentioned coupler and the mixture thereof is further mixed in a silver halide emulsion and a color development is made. A reaction activity ratio R of a scavenger to coupler N, i.e., a relative reaction rate, is to be determined by the following formula wherein, DM represents a color density of coupler N when it does not contain any scavenger and DM represents a color density of coupler N when it contains a scavenger in an amount of 1 10 mol of the coupler N. Provided that the above mentioned R is obtained with respect to various types of scavengers by making use of coupler N, the respective relative values of the reaction rates of the scavengers each with the oxidation products of a color developing agent may be determined. In the scavengers preferably used in the invention, R is to be not higher than 15, from the viewpoint of preventing a sensitivity from lowering. An amount of the high speed reaction type scavengers is not particularly limitative, but is preferably from 1x10 ⁴ mol to 5x10 ¹ mol per mol of a coupler used. The scavengers preferably useful are represented by the following formulas wherein wherein wherein wherein and NH CH₂ ₂COOH wherein The scavengers for the oxidation products of a color developing agent for use in emulsion layers were synthesized in the same procedures as those described in Japanese Patent Examined Publication No. 4133 1968 and Japanese Patent O.P.I. Publication Nos. 24141 1983, 45701 1983 and 5427 1984. The typical high speed reaction type scavengers will be exemplified below, and it is, however, to be understood that the invention shall not be limited thereto. In the exemplifications, the above mentioned R values are indicated in the parentheses. The scavengers exemplified below may be used singly or in combination. The methods of adding the scavengers for scavenging the oxidation products of a color developing agent into an emulsion layer will be described below, and any of the methods may be used in the invention. In the case of containing the scavenger for the oxidation products of a high speed reaction type color developing agent into a silver halide emulsion, it is preferred that, if the scavenger for the oxidation products of the color developing agent is alkali soluble, it may be added in the form of an alkali solution, and if it is oil soluble, it is dissolved in a high boiling solvent, and a low boiling solvent in combination, if required, and is then finely dispersed, so as to be added into a silver halide emulsion. In this instance, it is also allowed to use, if necessary, a UV absorbing agent or brown stain inhibitor in combination. It is also allowed to use a mixture of two or more kinds of the scavengers for the oxidation products of a color developing agent. Now, how to add the scavengers for the oxidation products of a color developing agent which is preferably used in the invention will be described more in detail below. One or not less than two kinds of the scavengers for the oxidation products of a color developing agent, together with the other type scavengers for the oxidation products of a color developing agent, couplers, brown stain inhibitors, UV absorbing agents if required, are dissloved in a high boiling solvent and or a low boiling solvents, such as an organic amide, a carbamate, an ester, a ketone, a urea derivative, an ether, a hydrocarbon and, particularly, di n butyl phthalate, tricresyl phosphate, triphenyl phosphate, diisooctyl azelate, di n butyl sebacate, tri n hexyl phosphate, N,N di ethyl caprylamidobutyl, N,N diethyllaurylamide, n pentadecyl phenyl ether, dioctyl phthalate, n nonyl phenol, 3 pentadecylphenyl ethyl ether, 2,5 di sec amylphenyl butyl ether, monophenyl di o chlorophenyl phosphate and fluoroparaffin the former solvents and methyl acetate, ethyl acetate, propyl acetate, butyl acetate, butyl propionate, cyclohexanol, diethylene glycol monoacetate, nitromethane, carbon tetrachloride, chloroform, cyclohexane tetrahydrofuran, methyl alcohol, acetonitrile, dimethyl formamide, dioxane and methylethyl ketone for the latter solvents and the resulting solution is mixed with an aqueous solution containing an anionic surfactant, a nonionic surfactant and or a hydrophilic binder, such as alkylbenzene sulfonic acid and alkylnaphthalene sulfonic acid for the former surfactants, sorbitan sesquioleic acid ester and sorbitan monolauric acid ester for the latter surfactants, and gelatine for the binders further, the resulting mixture is emulsified and dispersed by means of a high speed rotary mixer, colloid mill and supersonic homogenizer so as to be added into a silver halide emulsion. Besides the above, the scavengers for the oxidaion products of a color developing agent may also be dispersed in a latex dispersion process. Such latex dispersion processes and the effects thereof are described in, for example, Japanese Patent O.P.I. Publication Nos. 74538 1974, 59943 1976 and 32552 1979, and Research Disclosure, August, 1976, No. 14850, pp. 77 79. The suitable latices include, for example, the homopolymers, copolymers and terpolymers of such a monomer as styrene, acrylate, n butyl acrylate, n butyl methacrylate, 2 acetacetoxyethyl methacrylate, 2 methacryloyloxy ethyl trimethyl ammonium methosulfate, 3 methacryloyloxy propane 1 sodium sulfonate, N isopropyl acrylamide, N 2 2 methyl 4 oxopentyl acrylamide and 2 arylamido 2 methylpropane sulfonic acid. It is also allowed that the scavengers for the oxidation products of a color developing agent may be dissolved in the above mentioned low boiling solvents and then added into a silver halide emulsion. In photographic material according to the invention, the green sensitive emulsion layers, which are to be used in combination with the above mentioned blue sensitive emulsion layers, are preferable provided that the silver density thereof is not less than 5.0x10 ¹g cm³ and the dried layer thickness thereof is not more than 4.5µm, from the viewpoint that the sharpness of a photosensitive material may be improved. The silver density of the green sensitive emulsion layers is, more preferably, not more than 2.0g cm³ and, particularly. from 7.0x10 ¹ to 2.0g cm³, and the dried layer thickness thereof is, more preferably, not less than 0.8µm and, particularly, from 1.0 to 4.0µm. It is also preferable to contain the above mentioned high speed reaction type scavengers into the above mentioned green sensitive emulsion layers, so that the sharpness and graininess of a photosensitive material may be improved and a color stain may also be reduced. The preferable processes of using the high speed reaction type scavengers in the photosensitive materials of the invention also include, for example, a process in which a non photosensitive layer is so arranged as to be adjacent to the above mentioned blue and or green sensitive emulsion layers and the above mentioned high speed reaction type scavengers are contained in the non photosensitive layers. The high speed reaction type scavengers may be contained in at least one of the blue , green and non photosensitive layers. However, it is also allowed that the scavengers may be contained in any two or all the layers. The silver halide to be used in the photographic emulsion layer of the photographic material of this invention may be any of silver bromide, silver iodobromide, silver iodochlorobromide, silver chlorobromide and silver chloride. No particular restrictions are placed on the average grain size the average of grain diameters where each grain is spherical or nearly spherical, or where each grain is cubic, the average grain size is expressed in terms of the average of the edge lengths thereof regarded as grain sizes, measured according to the projected areas of the silver halide grains in the photographic emulsion, but the average grain size is desirable to be not more than 3µm. The grain size distribution may be either narrower or wider. The silver halide grain in the photographic emulsion is allowed to be in the form of a regular crystal such as a cubic or octahedral form, or of an irregular crystal such as a spherical or plate form, or else of a complex of these crystal forms. Further the silver halide may be of a mixture of these various crystal forms having grains. The silver halide grain is allowed to be of either a heterogeneous structure with its inside different from its surface stratum or a homogeneous structure uniformly stratified, and also of either the type of forming a latent image mainly on its surface or the type of forming a latent image mainly inside it. The photographic emulsion of the photographic material according to this invention may be prepared by any of known methods including the acidic method, neutral method and ammoniacal method. Regarding the reaction form of a water soluble silver salt with a water soluble halide, any of the single jet mixing method, double jet mixing method, and combination of these methods may be used. Alternatively, the method of forming grains in the presence of excessive silver ions inversely mixing method may also be used. As one form of the simultaneous mixing method, a method in which the pAg of a silver halide forming liquid phase is maintained constant the so called double jet method, may also be used. According to this method, a silver halide emulsion having a regular crystalline form and nearly uniform grain size can be obtained. Separately formed two or more silver halide emulsions may also be mixed to be used. In the course of forming or ripening the silver halide grains a cadmium salt, zinc salt, lead salt, thalium salt, iridium salt or iridium complex salt, rhodium salt or rhodium complex salt, iron salt or iron complex salt may be made present in the silver halide emulsion. As described above, a variety of silver halide emulsions may be applied to the blue sensitive emulsion layers. The more preferable silver halide emulsions include, for example, a core shell type silver halide emulsion which is comprised of a core substantially containing silver bromide and or silver iodobromide and a plurality of shells substantially containing silver bromide and or silver iodobromide, wherein the outermost shell thereof contains silver iodide in a proportion of not more than 10 mol and one of the shells arranged to the inner side of the outermost shell contains silver iodide not less than 6 mol more than that of the outermost shell, the latter is hereinafter referred to as a highly iodide containing shell . The particularly preferable ones include, for example, those arranged with an intermediate shell between the above mentioned outermost shell and a highly iodide containing shell so that the intermediate shell may be able to contain iodide not less than 3 mol more than that of the outermost shell and the highly iodide containing shell may be able to contain iodide not less than 3 mol more than that of the intermediate shell. In the silver halide composition of the silver halide grains to be used in the invention, the expression, substantially comprising ..... , means that it is allowed to contain such a silver halide as silver chloride other than silver bromide or silver iodide provided that the effects of the invention may not be hindered from displaying and, to be more concrete, it is desired that the content thereof is to be not more than 1 mol in the case of silver chloride. The above mentioned core shell type emulsions are characterized, if used, in the following points For a further improvement of the above mentioned excellent advantages, provided that The volume of the outermost shell is preferably from 4 to 70 of all the grains and more preferably from 10 to 50 thereof. The volume of the high iodide containing shell is preferably from 10 to 80 of all the grains, more preferably from 20 to 50 thereof and further preferably from 20 to 45 thereof. The volume of the intermediate shell is preferably from 5 to 60 and more preferably from 20 to 55 . The high iodide containing shell may be at least a part of an inner shell and it is preferred to make a separate inner shell present inward the high iodide containing shell. The iodide content of the inner shell is preferably from 0 to 40 mol , more preferably from 0 to 10 mol and further preferably from 0 to 6 mol . The grain size of the inner shell is preferably from 0.05 to 0.8µm and more preferably from 0.05 to 0.4µm. Further, in the aforementioned characteristic point 3 , the iodide content of all the grains is desirably from 1 to 30 mol , more desirably from 1 to 25 mol and further desirably from 2 to 20 mol . In the aforementioned characteristic point 4 , a grain size distribution is to preferably be not higher than 20 in a monodisperse emulsion, though either of the polydisperse emulsions and monodisperse emulsions will do, and more preferably not higher than 15 . The above mentioned variation coefficient shall be specified by the following formula that serves as the scale indicating a monodispersibility The grain size of a silver halide grain which is defined as a length of one side of a cube having the same volume as that of the silver halide grain is to preferably be from 0.1 to 3.0µm. The configuration thereof may be any one of octahedral, cubic, spherical and plate like configurations, for example, and the octahedron is preferable. The layer arrangement of the silver halide grains will further be described below Next, the examples of the above mentioned layer arrangement of the silver halide grains will now be described below, wherein an iodide content is represented by I. The inner cores of the silver halide grains can be prepared in such a process as described in, for example. P. Glafkides, Chimie et Physique Photographique , published by Paul Montel, 1967 G.F. Duffin, Photographic Emulsion Chemistry , published by The Focal Press, 1966 V.L. Zelikman et al, Making and Coating Photographic Emulsion , published by The Focal Press, 1964. Namely, any processes such as an acid process, a neutral process and an ammoniacal process, may be applied, and any reaction processes of a soluble silver salt with a soluble halide salt, such as a single jet precipitation process, a double jet precipitation process and the combination thereof, may be used. There may also be used the so called reverse precipitation process that is a process for forming grains in an excess of silver ions. As for one of the double jet precipitation processes, there may further be used the so called controlled double jet precipitation process , that is a process for keeping constant a pAg value in a liquid phase where a silver halide may be produced. In this process, there may be prepared a silver halide emulsion which is regular in crystal form and approximately uniform in grain size. It is also allowed to use the mixture of two or more kinds of silver halide emulsions which were separately prepared. It is, however, preferred to use the double jet or controlled double jet precipitation process. The pAg values preferably applicable to the preparation of an inner core may be varied from 2 to 11, depending upon the reaction temperatures thereof and the kinds of silver halide solvents to be used therein. It is also preferred to use the silver halide solvents including the well known ones such as ammonia or thioether, because they may be able to shorten the grain forming time. As for the configurations of the inner cores capable of being used therein, there may also include those in plate shaped, globular shaped and, besides, a twinned, octahedral, cubic or tetradecahedral crystal system and the combination systems thereof. For the purpose of uniforming grain sizes, it is preferred that such grains are to be grown up substantially faster, provided, however, that the critical saturation shall be maintained, by applying a method of varying the rates of adding silver nitrate and a halogenated alkali aqueous solution according to the grain growth rate, such as the methods described in, for example. British Patent No. 1,535,016 and Japanese Patent Examined Publication Nos. 36890 1973 and 16364 1977 or by applying a method of varying the concentrations of aqueous solutions, such as the methods described in, for example, U.S. Patent No. 4,242,445 and Japanese Patent O.P.I. Publication No. 158124 1980. Such a method as described above may also preferably be applied to the cases for introducing arbitrary shells, high iodide containing shells, intermediate shells or the outermost shell into a grain, because no nucleus may be regenerated and each silver halide grain may uniformly be coated with the shells. Between every high iodide containing shell and every inner core of the core shell type silver halide grains relating to the invention, a single or a plurality of arbitrary shells may be arranged if required. The above mentioned high iodide containing shell may be arranged in such a method as an ordinary halogen substitution method or a silver halide coating method which is to be applied, if necessary, after a formed inner core or an inner core provided thereto with an arbitrary shell is desalted. Such halogen substitution method may be carried out in such a manner, for example, that an aqueous solution mainly comprising an iodide compound e.g., preferably, potassium iodide , and more preferably, that of not more than 10 in concentration is added after an inner core is completed. This method may be carried out as detailedly described in, for example, U.S. Patent Nos. 2,592,250 and 4,075,020 and Japanese Patent O.P.I. Publication No. 127549 1980. For decreasing the difference of the iodide distributions in the grains of high iodide containing shells, it is desired that the aqueous iodide solution is so concentrated as to be not higher than 10 ² mol and then added in portions by taking not shorter than 10 minutes. The methods for further coating a silver halide over to an inner core include, for example, a double jet precipitation and controlled double jet precipitation methods in which an aqueous halide solution and an aqueous silver nitrate solution are simultaneously added, and more detailedly, the methods described in, for example, Japanese Patent O.P.I. Publication Nos. 22408 1978 and 14829 1983 Japanese Patent Examined Publication No. 13162 1978 Journal of Photographic Science, and 24,198, 1976. The pAg values which are to preferably be applied to form the high iodide containing shells are the similar ones applied to the above mentioned inner cores, provided, however, that such a pAg value may be varied according to the reaction temperatures and the kinds and quantity of silver halide solvents. If using ammonia to serve as the solvent, the pAg value is preferably from 7 to 11. Among the methods of forming such high iodide containing shells, the double jet precipitation and controlled double jet precipitation methods are more preferred to use. The intermediate shells of the silver halide grains can be arranged in such a manner that a silver halide having a different halide composition from those of the high iodide containing shells is coated on, by a double jet or controlled double jet precipitation method, to the outside of grains each of which contains the inner core and has a high iodide containing shell on the surface thereof, or contains the inner core and having a high iodide containing shell having, if required, a single or a plurality of arbitrary shells thereon. The methods of arranging the high iodide containing shells may similarly be applied for the above mentioned purpose. The outermost shell of the silver halide grains can be arranged in such a manner that a silver halide having a different composition from those of the high iodide containing shells and intermediate shells is coated on, by a double jet precipitation orcontrolled double jet precipitation method, to the outside of the grains each of which contains the high iodide containing shells and the inner core and has either an intermediate shell on the surface thereof or an intermediate shell having thereon, if required, a single or a plurality of arbitrary shells. The above mentioned method of arranging the high iodide containing shell may similarly be applied for this purpose. If required, a single or a plurality of the arbitrary shells may be arranged between the inner core and the high iodide containing shell, the high iodide containing shell and the intermediate shell, or the intermediate shell and the outermost shell, respectively, or, any one of such arbitrary shells may not also be arranged at all. The above mentioned method of arranging the high iodide containing shells may also similarly be applied for arranging the arbitrary shells. When a shell is so arranged as to be adjacent to the inner core, high iodide containing shells, intermediate shells, outermost shell or arbitrary shells arranged to various positions, a desalting treatment may, if required, be carried out in the course of the above mentioned shell arrangements, in an ordinary method, or the shell formation may be carried out continuously without interposing any desalting treatment. The iodide contents of each coated shell of the silver halide grains may also be obtained in the method described in, for example, J.I. Goldstein and D.B. Williams, X Ray Analyses in TEM ATEM , Scanning Electron Microscopy, 1977, Vol. 1, IIT Researcn Institute, p. 651, March, 1977. In the silver halide grains completed as the final product after the outermost shell is formed, any excessive halide compounds procuded in the course of the preparation, or nitrates, any ammonia salts and compounds each by produced or disused may be removed from the dispersion media of the grains. The appropriate methods to removing them include, for example, a noodle washing method a dialyzing method a precipitation method utilizing an inorganic salt, an anionic surfactant, an anionic polymer such as polystyrene sulfonic acid, or a gelatin derivative such as acylated gelatin and a carbamoylated gelatin or, a flocculation precipitation method which have popularly been used for ordinary type emulsions. The core shell type silver halide grains may be optically sensitized in a desired wavelength region. There is no particular limitation to the optical sensitization methods. For example, the optical sensitizers including cyanine and merocyanine dyes such as zeromethine, monomethine, dimethine and trimethine dyes may be used independently or in combination for optical sensitization. Such a combination of the sensitizing dyes as described above is often used in particular with the purpose of super sensitizing silver halide grains. It is also allowed that an emulsion may contain not only sensitizing dyes but also a dye not having any optical sensitizing capability in it self or a substance substantially incapable of absorbing any visible rays of light but capable of displaying a supersensitization effect. These techniques are described in, for example, U.S. Patent Nos. 2,688,545, 2,912,329, 3,397,060, 3,615,635 and 3,628,964 British Patent Nos. 1,195,302, 1,242,588 and 1,293,862 West German OLS Patent Nos. 2,030,326 and 2,121,780 Japanese Patent Examined Publication Nos. 4936 1968 and 14030 1969 and Research Disclosure, Vol. 176, No. 17643, issued in December, 1978, p. 23, Article IV J. The techniques may be suitably selected in accordance with a wavelength region to be sensitized, the sensitivity of an emulsion and the use or purpose or a photosensitive material. The crystals of the core shell type silver halide may be chemically sensitized in various processes usually applied to the ordinary type emulsions. For the above mentioned chemical sensitization, there may be able to use the methods described in, for example, H. Frieser, Die Grundlagen der Photographischen Prozesse mit Silberhalogeniden , published by Akademische Verlagsgesellschaft, 1968, pp. 675 734. Namely, there may be able to use a sulfur sensitization process using an active gelating and a sulfur containing compound capable of reacting with silver ions a reduction sensitization process using a reducible substance and a noble metal sensitization process using gold or other noble metal compounds independently or in combination. The sulfur sensitizers include, for example, a thiosulfate, a thiourea, a thiazole and a rhodanine compound, and the typical sulfur sensitizers are exemplified in, for example, U.S. Patent Nos. 1,574,944, 2,410,689, 2,278,947, 2,728,668, 3,656,955, 4,032,928 and 4,067,740. The reduction sensitizers include, for example, a stannous salt, an amine, a hydrazine derivative, formamidine sulfinic acid and a silane compound and the typical reduction sensitizers are exemplified in, for example, U.S. Patent Nos. 2,487,850, 2,419,974, 2,518,698, 2,983,609, 2,983,610, 2,694,637, 3,930,867 and 4,054,408. The noble metal sensitizers include, for example, a gold complex salt and a metal complex salt belonging to the VIII group of the periodic table such as platinum, iridium or palladium. The typical noble metal sensitizers are exemplified in, for example, U.S. Patent Nos. 2,399,083 and 2,448,060 and British Patent No. 618,061. The silver salt grains may be applied with the above mentioned chemical sensitization processes in combination. The photosensitive layers each containing the above mentioned grains may be present on the both sides of a support. Various types of dopants may also be doped when forming each of the shells of the core shell type emulsions. The internal dopants include, for example, silver, sulfur, iridium, gold, platinum, osmium, rhodium, tellurium, selenium, cadmium, zinc, lead, thallium, iron, antimony, bismuth and arsenic. In order to dope the above mentioned dopants, the water soluble salts or the complex salts thereof may be present together when each of the shells is formed. To serve as the binders or the dispersion meadia for producing the core shell type silver halide grains, there uses a hydrophilic colloid which is usually used in silver halide emulsions. Such hydrophilic colloids, which may be used independently or in combination, include not only a gelatin either of the lime processed and the acid processed but also a gelatin derivative including those prepared through the reaction of gelatin with an aromatic sulfonyl chloride, an acid chloride, an acid anhydride, an isocyanate or a 1,4 diketone as described in U.S. Patent No. 2,614,928, those Prepared through the reaction of gelatin with a trimellitic acid anhydride as described in U.S. Patent No. 3,118,766, those prepared through the reaction of gelatin with an organic acid having an active halogen as described in Japanese Patent Examined Publication No. 5514 1964, those prepared through the reaction of gelatin with an aromatic glycidyl ether as described in Japanese Patent Examined Publication No. 26845 1967, those prepared through the reaction of gelatin with a maleimide, maleamic acid, an unsaturated aliphatic diamide as described in U.S. Patent No. 3,186,846, a sulfoalkylated gelatin as described in British Patent No. 1,033,189 and a gelatin polyoxyalkylene derivative as described in U.S. Patent No. 3,312,553, a high molecular compound grafted with gelatin including, for example, those in which vinyl monomers such as acrylic acid, methacrylic acid, the esters of the above mentioned acrylic acid or methacrylic acid and a mono or polyvalent alcohol, amide, acrylo or methacrylonitrile and styrene, are grafted independently or in combination with gelatin a hydrophilic high molecular substance including, for example, a homopolymer comprising such a monomer as vinyl alcohol, N vinylpyrolidone, hydroxyalkyl metha acrylate, metha acrylamide or N substituted metha acrylamide, the copolymers thereof, a copolymer of the above mentioned substances and metha acrylate, vinyl acetate or styrene and a copolymer of either one of the above mentioned substances and maleic anhydride or maleamic acid and a natural hydrophilic high molecular substance other than gelatin, such as casein, agar and alginic polysaccharides. The photographic emulsion to be used in this invention, in order to prevent the possible occurrence of fog in the course of the manufacture, storage or photographic processing of the photographic material or to stabilize the photographic characteristics, may contain various compounds such as those known as antifoggants or stabilizers, examples of which include thiazoles such as benzothiazolium salts, nitroindazoles, triazoles, benzotriazoles, benzimidazoles particularly nitro or halogen substituted products heterocyclic mercapto compounds such as mercaptothiazoles, mercaptobenzothiazoles, mercaptobenzimidazoles, mercaptothiadiazoles, mercaptotetrazoles particularly 1 phenyl 5 mercaptotetrazole , mercaptopyridines the above heterocyclic mercapto compounds having water soluble groups such as carboxyl group, sulfone group thioketo compounds such as oxazolinethione azaindenes such as tetrazaindenes particularly 4 hydroxy substituted 1,3,3a,7 tetrazaindenes benzenethiosulfonic acids and benzenesulfinic acid. The photographic emulsion layers or other hydrophilic colloid layers may contain various surfactants as the coating aid, antistatic agent or for the purpose of improving the slidability, effecting the emulsification dispersion and improving the antiadhesion and photographic characteristics such as development acceleration, hardening, sensitization . Usable examples of such surfactants include nonionic surfactants such as e.g., saponin steroid type , alkylene oxide derivatives such as polyethylene glycol, polyethylene glycol polypropylene glycol compounds, polyethylene glycol alkyl ethers, or polyethylene glycol alkylaryl ethers, polyethylene glycol esters, polyethylene glycol sorbitan esters, polyalkylene glycol alkylamines or amides, silicone s polyethylene oxide adducts , glycidol derivatives such as alkenyl succinic acid polyglyceride, alkylphenol polyglyceride , fatty acid esters of polyhydric alcohols and alkyl esters of sugar anionic surfactants containing acid groups such as carboxy group, sulfo group, phospho group, sulfuric acid ester group, phosphoric acid ester group, such as alkyl carboxylates, alkyl sulfonates, alkylbenzene sulfonates, alkyl naphthalene sulfonates, alkyl sulfates, alkyl phosphates, N acyl N alkyl taurines, sulfosuccinates, sulfoalkylpolyoxyethylene alkylphenyl ethers and polyoxyethylenealkyl phosphates amphoteric surfactants such as amino acids, aminoalkylsulfonic acids, aminoalkyl sulfates or phosphates, alkylbetaines and amine oxides, and cationic surfactants such as alkylamine salts, aliphatic or aromatic quaternary ammonium salts, heterocyclic quaternary ammonium salts such as pyridinium, imidazolium, and aliphatic or heterocyclic ring containing phosphonium or sulfonium salts. The photographic emulsion layer of the photographic material of this invention, for the purpose of increasing the sensitivity and contrast or of development acceleration, may also contain, for example, polyalkylene oxides or derivatives thereof such as ethers, esters, amines, thioether compounds, thiomorpholines, quaternary ammonium compounds, urethane derivatives, urea derivatives, imidazole derivatives, or 3 pyrazolidones. For example, those as described in, e.g., U.S. Patent Nos. 2,400,532, 2,423,549, 2,716,062, 3,617,280, 3,772,021, 3,808,003 and British Patent No. 1,488,991, may be used. The photographic material of this invention, for the purpose of improving the dimensional stability of the photographic emulsion layer or other hydrophilic colloid layers, may contain water insoluble or water less soluble synthetic polymer dispersed materials. For example, those polymers may be used which are obtained by the homo or copolymerization of such monomeric units as alkyl meth acrylates, alkoxyalkyl meth acrylates, glycidyl meth acrylates, meth acrylamides, vinyl esters such as vinyl acetate , acrylonitrile, olefins, styrenes or those units in combination of these with acrylic acid, methacrylic acid, α,β unsaturated dicarboxylic acid, hydroxyalkyl meth acrylates, sulfoalkyl meth acrylates and styrenesulfonic acid. For example, those as described in U.S. Patent Nos. 2,376,005, 2,739,137, 2,853,457, 3,062,674, 3,411,911, 3,488,708, 3,525,620, 3,607,290, 3,635,715 and 3,645,740, and British Patent Nos. 1,186,699 and 1,307,373, may be used. To the photographic processing of the photographic emulsion layer may be applied any of those known methods and known processing solutions as described in, e.g., Research Disclosure No.176, p.28 30 RD 17643 . This photographic processing may, if necessary, be a photographic processing to form a dye image color photographic processing . The processing is made usually at a temperature between 18 C and 50 C, but may also be made at a temperature of less than 18 C or exceeding 50 C. As a specific form of the processing, there may be used a method in which a developing agent is incorporated into the photographic material, for example, into the emulsion layer, and this photographic material is processed in an aqueous alkaline solution to thereby develop the same. Of developing agents hydrophobic ones may be incorporated into the emulsion layer in accordance with any of those various methods as described in Research Disclosure No. 169 RD 16928 , U.S. Patent No. 2,739,890, British Patent No. 813,253 and West German Patent No. 1,547,763. Such the developing process may take place in combination with a silver salt stabilizing process using a thiocyanate. As the fixer solution those of generally used compositions may be used. As the fixing agent, in addition to thiosulfates and thiocyanates, those organic sulfur compounds known for their effects as the fixing agent may be used. The fixer solution may contain a water soluble aluminum salt as a hardener. The formation of a dye image can be carried out in usual manner for example, those negative positive methods as described in, e.g., Journal of the Society of Motion Picture and Television Engineers , vol. 61 1953 , p.667 701, may be used. A color developer solution is generally an aqueous alkaline solution containing a color developing agent. Usable example of the color developing agent are those generally known aromatic amine developing agents including, e.g., phenylenediamines such as 4 amino N ,N diethylaniline, 3 methyl 4 amino N ,N diethylaniline, 4 amino N ethyl N β hydroxyethylaniline, 3 methyl 4 amino N ethyl N β hydroxyethylaniline, 3 methyl 4 amino N ethyl N β methanesulfonamidoethylaniline and 4 amino 3 methyl N ethyl N β methoxyethylaniline. In addition, those as described in L.F.A. Mason, Photographic Processing Chemistry Focal Press, 1966 , p.226 229, U.S. Patent Nos. 2,193,015 and 2,592,364, Japanese Patent O.P.I. Publication No. 64933 1973 may also be used. The color developer solution may contain additionally pH buffer, development restrainer or antifoggant and, if necessary, may further contain hardener, softener, preservative, organic solvent, development accelerator, color forming couplers, competing couplers, fogging agent, auxiliary developing agent, viscosity giving agent, polycarboxylic acid type chelating agent and oxidation inhibitor. Examples of these additives are described in Research Disclosure RD 17643 , U.S. Patent No. 4,083,723 and West German OLS Patent No. 2,622,950. The photographic emulsion layer, after color development, is usually bleached. The bleach treatment may take place either simultaneously with or separately from the fixing process. Examples of the bleaching agent for use in the bleaching process include compounds of polyvalent metals such as iron III , cobalt III , chromium IV , copper II , peroxides, quinones and nitroso compounds, such as, e.g., ferricyanides bichromates organic complex salts of iron III or cobalt III , e.g., those complex salts of organic acids including aminopolycarboxylic acids such as ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid, nitrilotriacetic acid, 1,3 diamino 2 propanoltetraacetic acid, or citric acid, succinic acid, malic acid, persulfates, permanganates and nitrosophenol. Among these compounds, potassium ferricyanide, iron III sodium ethylenediaminetetraacetate and iron III ammonium ethylenediaminetetraacetate are especially useful. These complex salts of iron III ethylenediaminetetraacetate are useful not only for an independent bleaching bath but also for a bleach fix monobath. To the bleaching bath or bleach fix bath may be added various additives including those bleaching accelerators described in U.S. Patent Nos. 3,042,520 and 3,241,966, Japanese Patent Examined Publication Nos. 8506 1970 and 8836 1970, and those thiol compounds as described in Japanese Patent O.P.I. Publication No. 65732 1978. The photographic emulsion may be spectrally sensitized by use of methine dyes or other dyes. For example, those compounds which will be hereinafter described in detail as sensitizing dyes in the examples of this invention may be used. Useful sensitizing dyes are those described in, e.g., West German Patent No. 929,080, U.S. Patent Nos. 2,493,748, 2,503,776, 2,519,001, 2,912,329, 3,656,959, 3,672,897 ans 4,025,349, British Patent No. 1,242,588, and Japanese Patent Examined Publication No. 14030 1969. These sensitizing dyes, although usable in usual manner, may be used in combination, and the combined use of sensitizing dyes is often utilized for the purpose of color sensitization. Representative examples of the combined use are described in U.S. Patent Nos. 2,688,545, 2,977,229, 3,397,060, 3,522,052, 3,527,641, 3,617,293, 3,628,964, 3,666,480, 3,672,898, 3,679,428, 3,814,609 and 4,026,707, British Patent No. 1,344,281, Japanese Patent Examined Publication Nos. 4936 1968 and 12375 1978, and Japanese Patent O.P.I. Publication Nos. 110618 1977 and 109925 1977. A multilayer color photographic material has normally on a support at least one red sensitive emulsion layer, green sensitive emulsion layer and blue sensitive emulsion layer. The order of these layers may be arbitrarily selected at need. It is the normal way to incorporate a cyan forming coupler into the red sensitive emulsion layer, a magenta forming coupler into the green sensitive emulsion layer and an yellow forming coupler into the blue sensitive emulsion layer, but the combination may be changed otherwise if circumstances require. This invention allows the use of an exposure shorter than 1 1000 s, not to speak of the exposure period of from 1 1000 to one s for example, not only an exposure as short as 1 10⁴ 1 10⁶ s but also an exposure longer than one second may be used. If necessary, a color filter may be used to control the spectral composition of a light to be used in exposure. The exposure of the photographic material of this invention may be made with a laser light, or may also be made with rays released from a phosphor excited by electron beam, X rays, γ ray or α rays. The emulsion layer may contain a color correction effect having colored coupler or a coupler capable of releasing a development inhibitor in the course of development DIR coupler , and may also contain an additional colorless DIR coupling compound, whose coupling reaction product is colorless and which releases a development inhibitor. Usable examples of the colored coupler include those as described in, e.g., U.S. Patent Nos. 3,476,560, 2,521,908 and 3,034,892, Japanese Patent Examined Publication Nos. 2016 1969, 22335 1963, 11304 1967 and 32461 1969, Japanese Patent O.P.I. Publication Nos. 26034 1976 and 42121 1977, and West German OLS Patent No. 2,415,959. And usable examples of the DIR coupler include those as described in, e.g., U.S. Patent Nos. 3,227,554, 3,617,291, 3,701,783, 3,790,384 and 3,632,345, West German OLS Patent Nos. 2,414,006, 2,454,301 and 2,454,329, British Patent No. 953,454, Japanese Patent O.P.I. Publication Nos. 69624 1977 and 122335 1974, and Japanese Patent Examined Publication No. 16141 1976. Besides the DIR coupler, the photographic material may also contain a compound capable of releasing a development inhibitor in the course of development, and examples of the compound include those as described in, e.g., U.S. Patent Nos. 3,297,445 and 3,379,529, West German OLS Patent No. 2,417,914, and Japanese Patent O.P.I. Publication Nos. 15271 1977 and 9116 1978. The photographic material of this invention may contain an inorganic or organic hardener in the photographic emulsion layer and other hydrophilic colloid layers thereof. For example, chromium salts such as chrome alum, chromium acetate , aldehydes such as formaldehyde, glyoxal, glutaraldehyde , N methylol compounds, dimethylol urea, methyloldimethylhydantoin , dioxane derivatives such as 2,3 dihydroxydioxane , active vinyl compounds such as 1,3,5 triacryloyl hexahydro s triazine, 1,3 vinylsulfonyl 2 propanol , active halogen compounds such as 2,4 dichloro 6 hydroxy s triazine , mucohalogenic acids such as mucochloric acid and mucophenoxychloric acid , may be used alone or in combination. In the photographic material of this invention, where the hydrophilic colloid layer contains a dye or ultraviolet absorbing agent, these may be mordanted by a cationic polymer for example, those polymers as described in British Patent No. 685,475, U.S. Patent Nos. 2,675,316, 2,839,401, 2,882,156, 3,048,487, 3,184,309 and 3,445,231, West German OLS Patent No. 1,914,362 and Japanese Patent O.P.I. Publication Nos. 47624 1975, 71332 1975. The photographic material of this invention may contain an anticolor stain agent. Examples of the agent include hydroquinone derivatives, aminophenol derivatives and gallic acid derivatives. The photographic material of this invention may contain an ultraviolet absorbin agent in the hydrophilic layer thereof. For example, aryl group substituted benzotriazole compounds, 4 thiazolidone compounds, benzophenone compounds, cinnamic acid ester compounds, butadiene compounds, benzoxazole compounds, and further ultraviolet absorbing polymers, may be used. Any of these ultraviolet absorbing agents may be fixed to the above mentioned hydrophilic colloid layer. Examples of such ultraviolet absorbing agents are described in U.S. Patent Nos. 3,533,794, 3,314,794 and 3,352,681, Japanese Patent O.P.I. Publication No. 2784 1971, U.S. Patent Nos. 3,705,805, 3,707,375, 4,045,229, 3,700,455 and 3,499,762 and West German DAS Patent No. 1,547,863. The photographic material of this invention may contain in the hydrophilic colloid layer thereof a water soluble dye as a filter dye or for the purpose of anti irradiation or for various other purposes. Examples of such dyes include oxonol dyes, hemioxonol dyes, styryl dyes, merocyanine dyes, cyanine dyes, and azo dyes. Of these the oxonol dyes, hemioxonol dyes and merocyanine dyes are useful. Any of the following known antidiscoloration agents may be used in combination, and those dye image stabilizers applicable to this invention may be used alone or in combination of two or more. Examples of the prior art antidiscoloration agents include hydroquinone derivatives, gallic acid derivatives, p alkoxyphenols, p oxyphenol derivatives and bisphenols. Examples of the hydroquinone derivatives are described in U.S. Patent Nos. 2,360,290, 2,418,613, 2,675,314, 2,701,197, 2,704,713, 2,728,659, 2,732,300, 2,735,765, 2,710,801 and 2,816,028, and British Patent No. 1,363,921 those of the gallic acid derivatives are described in U.S. Patent Nos. 3,457,079, 3,069,262 those of the p alkoxyphenols are described in U.S. Patent Nos. 2,735,765 and 3,698,909, Japanese Patent Examined Publication Nos. 20977 1974 and 6623 1977 those of the p oxyphenol derivatives are described in U.S. Patent Nos. 3,432,300, 3,573,050, 3,574,627 and 3,764,337, Japanese Patent O.P.I. Publication Nos. 35633 1977, 147434 1977 and 152225 1977 and those of the bisphenols are described in U.S. Patent No. 3,700,455. The silver halide photographic material of this invention is prepared by coating on a support silver halide emulsion layers and other component layers containing various necessary photographic additives as described above. Advantageously usable examples of the support include, e.g., baryta paper, polyethylene laminated paper, polypropylene synthetic paper, glass plates, cellulose acetate film, cellulose nitrate film, polyvinyl acetal film, polypropylene film, polyester film such as of polyethylene terephthalate and polystyrene film. These support materials may be arbitrarily selected to be used according to the purpose for which the silver halide photographic material is used. These support materials are subjected to subbing treatment at need. The present invention will be further illustrated in detail by the following examples. In all the following examples, the adding quantity of each material to the silver halide color photographic material is shown in a quantity per m². In addition, the silver halide and colloidal silver used are shown in silver equivalent. Samples of the color photosensitive materials were prepared in manner that on a subbed cellulose triacetate film support BS are coated in order from the support side the following RL 1, RH 1, IL, GL 1, GH 1, YF, BL 1, BH 1 and Pro layers. A red sensitive silver halide low speed emulsion layer containing 1.8g of a monodisperse emulsion comprising AgBrI containing 6 mole AgI, whose average grain size A red sensitive silver halide high speed emulsion layer containing 2.0g of a monodisperse emulsion comprising AgBrI containing 6 mole AgI, whose average grain size is 0.9µm EM II and which is red sensitized, and a dispersion product prepared by dispersing into an aqueous solution of 1.2g of gelatin a solution of 0.20g of cyan coupler C 1 and 0.03g of colored cyan coupler CC 1 dissolved into 0.23g of TCP. A green sensitive silver halide low speed emulsiom layer containing 1.5g of EM I sensitized to be green sensitive and a dispersion product prepared by emulsifiedly dispersing into an aqueous solution of 1.4g of gelatin a solution of 0.65g of 1 2,4,6 trichlorophenyl 3 3 p dodecyloxybenzenesulfonamido benzamido 5 pyrazolone called M 1 , 0.15g of 1 2,4,6 trichlorophenyl 4 1 naphthylazo 3 2 chloro 5 octadecenylsuccinimidoanilino 5 pyrazolone called CM 1 , and 0.03g of DIR compound D 1 dissolved into 0.68g of TCP. A green sensitive silver halide high speed emulsion layer containing 2.29 of EM II sensitized to be green sensitive and a dispersion product prepared by emulsifiedly dispersing into an aqueous solution of 1.9g of gelatin a solution of 0.22g of magenta coupler M 1 and 0.045g of colored magenta coupler CM 1 dissolved into 0.27g of TCP. A blue sensitive silver halide low speed emulsion layer containing 0.8g of EM I sensitized to be blue sensitive and a dispersion product prepared by emulsifiedly dispersing into an aqueous gelatin solution a solution of the yellow coupler given in Table 1 and 0.01g of DIR compound D 1 dissolved into TCP. A blue sensitive silver halide high speed emulsion layer containing an emulsion sensitized to be blue sensitive comprising AgBrI containing 8 mole AgI and having an average grain size of 1.0µm and a coefficient of variation of 0.14 and a dispersion product prepared by emulsifiedly dispersing into an aqueous gelatin solution a solution of of the yellow coupler dissolved into TCP. An interlayer containing 0.8g of gelatin. An yellow filter layer containing 0.15g of yellow colloidal silver and 1.0g of gelatin. A protective layer containing 2.3g of gelatin. A plurality of samples were prepared in the above manner, varying the amount of oil sum of the quantities of the yellow coupler and TCP and the amount of gelatin contained in the low speed blue sensitive layer BL 1 and high speed blue sensitive layer BH 1 as shown in Table 1. The thus prepared Samples No.I No.VI and Nos. 7 to 10 each was exposed through an optical wedge to a white light, and then developed in the following processing steps The compositions of the processing solutions used in the respective processes are as follows The obtained samples each was measured by use of a white light W with respect to fog, relative sensitivity S , sharpness and RMS. The RMS value is given with the 1000 fold value of the standard deviation of the variation of a density value obtained when scanning the minimum density 0.7 area by a micro densitometer having a 25µm circulate scanning head. The results are shown in Table 2. The relative sensitivity S is a relative value to the reciprocal of the exposure giving fog density 0.1, and shown with a value relative to the value of Sample No.I regarded as 100. Regarding the improvement effect of the sharpness, the MTF Modulation Transfer Function of the formed dye image is first found, and then the improvement effect is shown with a relative value to Sample No.I regarded as 100 of the MTF at 10 lines mm. In addition, the interimage improvement effect is shown with a relative value to Sample No.I regarded as 100 of the proportion of the sensitometry γ From the results shown in the above table, it is apparent that, where the Ag density is settled the sharpness, graininess, sensitivity and interimage effect are improved. Samples were prepared in the same manner as in Example 1 except that the layer construction of Example 1 was changed to the following inverse layer construction The results are shown in Table 3. From the table it is apparent that any of the samples according to this invention shows very satisfactory results. The samples of Example 1 were compared in Table 4 with respect to their desilverizabilities at the time of bleaching. The judgement of the desilverizability was carried out by measuring the amount of the residual silver in the maximum density area of each processed sample. That the amount of the residual silver is large implies that the processability is inadequate. It is apparent from Table 4 that the samples according to this invention are excellent in the desilverizability.