# Unloader, particularly for ships.

## Abstract
An unloader 1 is provided, particularly for unloading mate rial from the hold of a ship 2 , which has a horizontal screw type excavating conveyor, a rake type conveyor 26 connected to the screw conveyor 27 , and a vertical elevator 19 receiving material from the rake type conveyor 26 and elevating it for discharge on to a ship to shore conveyor 17 . The elevator 19 , and therewith the screw and rake type conveyors 27,26 , can be moved horizontally and vertically on a boom 11 and also rotated about its vertical axis. Rotary cutter blades 73,74 are provided at both ends of the screw type conveyor 27 and the rake type conveyor 26 has its attitude controlled by resilient holding means to keep it at a substantially constant angle with respect to the axis of the elevator 19 . Optionally, the elevator 19 can be articulated at two points up its height so that its lower part can be shifted laterally with respect to its upper part, while the lower part is maintained parallel to itself, by an arrangement of hydraulic jacks.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. An unloader including screw type excavating and conveying means 27 having an axis extending laterally rake type excavating and conveying means 26 connected at one end to said screw type means, and extending perpendicularly to said axis elevating means 19 extending at least in part substantially vertically to pivotably support said rake type means adjacent the lower end of said elevating means, and elevate material from said rake type means and support means supporting said elevating means and adapted rotate it on its vertical axis together with said rake type and screw type means, and move it substantially vertically and horizontally said unloader being characterized by rotary cutters 73,74 provided on said screw type means at,both ends of said screw type means and holding means 36 connected to resiliently hold said rake type means with respect to said elevating means at a substantially constant angle to said axis of the elevating means. 2. An unloader according to Claim 1, and further characterised by guide means supported at one end pivotably by said elevating means on an axis in parallel to said axis of the screw type means, said guide means telescopically supporting said rake type means, and buffer means connected between said guide means and said rake type means. 3. An unloader according to Claim 2, and further characterized by support means connected between said elevating means and said guide means so that said axis of the screw type means may be angularly displaced tn a plane in parallel to said axes of said screw type means and said elevating means. 4. An unloader according to Claim 1, 2 or 3 wherein said support means,for said elevating means comprises girder means adapted to be moved horizontally and perpendicul,aily to its length, trolley means mounted on said girder means .and adapted to be moved along it, and lift means mounted on said trolley means and adapted to be rotated on it, said lift means supporting said elevating means so as to rotate it Åals,o, and said lift means being adapted to raise and lower said elevating means substantially vertically relatively to itself. 5. An unloader according to any preceding Claim, in which the elevator means is articulated in a manner to enable the lower part to be shifted laterally with respect ta the upper part. 6. An unloader according to Claim 5, wherein there are two points of articulation of the elevator means at two different heights and, control means are provided to maintain the lower end portion of the elevator means beyond the lower point of articulation parallel to itself as the lower portion is shifted laterally. 7. An unloader according to Claim 6, wherein the lower end portion of the elevator means beyond the lower articulation point is maintained substantially horizontal, and the screw type means and the rake type means are associated with it so that they also move parallel to themselves when the lower portion of the elevator means is shifted laterally. 8. An unloader according to Claim 6, or Claim 7, wherein the control means are hydraulic jacks.

## Description
UNLOADER The present invention relates to an unloader or apparatus for excavating or scooping and elevating material, partioularly in a hold of a ship. An unloader of this type is shown in Japanese patent pub.50 18225 published on Nov. 24. 1984 claiming priority ofSwedish appin. 7807715 3 filed on July 11, 1978 . This prior art unloader includes a lateral conveyor extending between a pier and a ship, a generally vertical conveyor downwardly extending from the end of the lateral conveyor adjacent the ship, a supply conveyor obliquely and downwardly extending from the vertical conveyor adjacent its bottom. and a collector connected to ,the supply conveyor and extending perpendicularly to it. The prior..art unloader cannot when the collector moves longitudinally of itself. Also, this unloader is not suitable to excavate only an upper portion of material, because the collector is forced to contact a floor of the ship by gravity. It is a general object of this invention to provide an unloader for effectively excavating both thick and thin layers of material in various directions along a floor of a ship. An unloader according to the invention includes , screw type ex, cavating and conveying means having an axis extending laterally rake type excavating and conveying means connected at one end to said screw type means, and extending perpendicularly to said axis elevating means extending at least in part substantially vertically to pivotably support said rake type means adjacent the lower end of said elevating means, and elevate material from said rake type means and support means supporting said elevating means and adapted to rotate it on its vertical axis together with said rake type and screw type means, and move it substantially vertically and horizontally. This unloader is characterized by . rotary cutt9rs provided on said screw type means at both ends of said screw type means and holding means connected to resiliently hold said rake type means with respect to said elevating means at a substantially constant, a4gle, to said axis of the elevating means. Preferred embodiments of the invention are explained below with reference to the accompanying drawings, wherein Fig. I is a side elevation of an unloader according to the invention Fig. 2 is a top plan of the unloader of Fig., 1 Fig. 3 is a side elevation of part of Fig. 1 Fig. 4 isan enlarged sectional view of part of the unloader Fig. 5 is an enlarged schematic view in perspective of part of the unloader Fig. 6 is an enlarged schematic view in cross section of part of the unloader Fig. 7 is a fragmentary view in perspective of another form of part of the unloader Fig. 8 is a side elevation partially in section showing another form of part of the unloader Fig. 9 is a front elevation of the construction shown in Fig. 8 Fig. 10 is a sectional view taken on the line X X of Fig. 8 Fig. 11 is an exploded perspective view of part of the construction shown in Figs. 8 10 Fig. 12 is an exploded perspective view of part of the construction shown in Figs. 8 9 Fig. 13 is a side elevation of another form of unloader according to the invention Fig. 14 is a top plan of the unloader of Fig. 13 Fig. 15 is an end elevation of the unloader of Figs. 13 14 Fig. 16 is an enlarged cross sectional view of the circled portion XVI in Fig. 13 Fig. 17 is a diagramatic view showing the movement of a bucket elevator of the unloader of Figs. 13 16 Fig. 18 is a perspective view of part of this unloader Fig. 19 is a schematic view in perspective of part of this unloader Fig. 20 is a schematic top plan of the ship shown in Figs. 13 and 15 Fig. 21 is a schematic top plan showing still an, other form of unloader according to the invention Fig. 22 is a side view showing a further modified.form of elevator Fig. 23 is a fragmentary view as viewed from the left in Fig. 22 Fig. 24 is ,a schematic side view showing the conveyor in the elevator Fig. 25 is an.enlarged perspective view of the portion circled, in Fig. 24 Fig. 26 is an enlarged view in cross,section taken, along line E E of Fig. 24. With reference to Figs. 1 2, an unloader 1 stands on a pier 3, at which a ship 2 moors. Longitudinally on the pier 3 extend a pair .of p aral lel rails 4. The unloade r includes a gatel ike framework or gantry 6. which is movable along the rails 4 in the directions A1 A2. The framework 6 has legs 7 riding the rails 4, and girders 9 carried on,the legs. Mounted on the girders 9 is a rotary support 10, which can be rotated on a vertical axis by means not shown. The support 10 supports one end of a boom 11 pivotably in a vertical plane. The boom 11 forms a link work together with links 12 14. Connected to the link work are a support member 15 and a weight 16. The boom 11 has a belt, conveyor 17 extending on and along it, and pivotably carries an operating room 18 adjacent the other or outer end. The boom 11 also pivotably carries a generally annular head frame 20 on the outer end. The frame 20 is connected to one end of a connecting rod 22, which extends above and in parallel to the boom 11. The rod 22 is connected at the other end to a connecting rod 23 fixed to the rotary support 10. Connected between the support 10 and the boom 11 is a hydraulic cylinder 5 to swing the boom in a vertical plane. The link work allows the axis of the head frame 20 to be always vertical as the boom 11 swings. The frame 20 rotatably supports a bucket elevator 19 extending vertically through it. The eletat6r 19 can be rotated on the vertical axis of the frame 20 by a drive 28, which is mounted on the frame 20. The frame 20 also rotatable supports an annular table 24 around the elevator 19. The table 24 can be rotated coaxially with the elevator 19 by a drive 25, which is mounted on the frame 20. With reference to Figs. 1 3, the elevator 19 is surrounded in a casing 31, which is generally square in cross section. The casing 31 has an outlet duct 29 mounted at the top thereof to discharge material from the elevator 19 onto the rotary table 24. The material is then carried on the table 24 in the direction B Fig. 2 , and guided by a guide,blade 30 onto the belt conveyor 17. With,reference to, Figs. 1, 3 and 4, the elevator 19 supports adjacent the lower end one end of rake type excavating and conveying means 26, which extends generally downwardly. The rake means 26 supports ,on the other end screw type excavating and conveying means 27, which has a horizontalaxis,extending perpendicularly to the rake means 26. As shown in Figs. 3 4, the elevator casing 31 has a pair of brackets 32 secured to it adjacent its lower end . The rake means 26 is connected at one end to the brackets 32 by a horizontal pin 33 pivotably in a vertical plane. Below the brackets 32, another pair of brackets 34 are secured the casing 31, and a hydraulic cylinder 36 is connected to each bracket 34 by a pin 35. The cylinder 36 has a rod 37 connected to a bracket 39 on one side ,wall of the casing 38 of the rake means 26 by a pin 40. The cylinder 36 is adapted to maintain a predetermined angle between the elevator 19 and the rake means 26, and acts as a buffer to absdrb impulses which may act on the rake means 26 or screw means 27. With reference to Fig. 4, the elevator casing 31 has an opening 41, formed therethrough shortly below the upper brackets 32 to pass material from the rake means 26 into the elevator 19. The casing 31 also has a guide plate 42 extending Upwardly and outwardly from the lower end of the opening 41. The rake means casing 38 has a guide plate 43 extending from its upper end downwardly and outwardly over the guide plate 42.The casing 38 also has a scraping plate 45 pinned to its lower end. The elevator casing 31 houses a conveyor pulley 46 journalled on a horizontal axis at the bottom thereof, and a conveyor belt 47 wound around the pulley 46. The belt 47 has a number of buckets 48 secured thereto at reguler invervals. The pulley 46 is rotated in the direction B1, and the buckets 48 are moved in the directions B2 B3 to lift the material thrown through the opening 41. With reference to Figs. 4 5, the ,rake means casing 38 houses sprocket wheels 49 52. The upper wheels 49 and 51 are rotated in common by a horizontal drive shaft 33 in the direction Cl.while the lower wheels 60 and 52 are interconnected horizontal shaft 53. Wound between and around the wheels 49 50 on one side is an endless chain 54, and wound between and around the wheels 51 52 on the other side is an endless chain 55. As shown in Fig. 4, the chains 54 55 have a number of outwardly projecting rakes 56 at a horizontal interval between the chains. The chains 54 55 move in the directions C2 C3 to rake up material 57 in front of the rake means 26. and convey it inthe direction C3. ,The rake means 26 is designed so that, when the scraper 45 contacts a floor 58 of the ship, the outer end of the rake 56 at the lowest position is spaced from the, floor 58 by a clearance c. As shown in Figs. 5 and 6, the shafts 33 and 53 are journalled in a pair of support plates 59 60, which are fixed to the casing 38 by supports 61 64 outside the wheel s 49 52 axially of the shafts. The lower shaft 53 further extends outside the support plates 59 60, and a pair of drums 65 66 are fixed coaxially to it outside the casing 38. Each drum 65, 66 has a plurality of spiral blades 67. With reference to Fig. 6, the rake means casing 38 includes side plates 68 69 and a bottom plate, 70, within which the support plates 59 60 are located. The.plates 59 60 have bearings 71 72 fixed to their lower ends, respectively, to journal the shaft 53. Secured ,ta the shaft 53 are a pair of rotary side cutters 73 74 axially outside the drums ,65 66. Each cutter 73, 74 has four blades extending radially of the shaft 53 and spaced from each other at a right angle., When the, screw means, 2i is moved in the direction to excavate, the material 57 by the cutter 73, 74, e,g., axial ly of the screw means, the excavated material is moved toward the rake means 26 by the spiral blades 67. Fig. 7 shows a modification of rake means 26, which has a pair of supports 59 60 mounted within a casing 38. Each support 59, 60 has a pair Of projections 59a, 60a, which extend at its lower end perpendicularly to its length. Bearings 71 72 are bolted to the projections 59a 60a, respectively. The bottom wall 70 has a bracket 75 formed on,its lower end, to which a scraper 45 is pinned. This enable the scraper 45 to follow the rolling and pitching of the ship, so, that no unnecessary forces may act on the scraper 45 ,contacting the floor of the ship. In operation, back to Fig. 1, the unloader 1 changes from the position shown in chain lines to that shown ip solid lines by means of the link work 11 14, with the bucket elevator 19 maintained to vertically extend. This lowers the screw means 27 onto the material in a hold 83 under a hatch 82 of the ship 2. With reference to Figs. 4 5, the elevator 19 is moved in the direction Al as the framework 6 moves along the rails 4. At this time, the materials 57 in both side sections w1 and w2 Fig. 5 in front of or the screw means 27 are excavated by the rotating blades 67 . With reference to Fig. 6, the excavated and fragmented materials 57 are forced by the spiral blades 67 in the inward directions D1 and D2 toward the rake means 26. The material 57 in a central section w3 Fig. 5 in front of the rake means 26 is excavated by the rakes 56 Fig. 4 , and conveyed by them along the casing 38 in the direction C3 together with the materials from the screw means 27. The material 57 then falls along the guides 43 42 and through the opening 41 into the buckets 48. Back to Figs. 1 3, the material is lifted by, the bucket elevato,r 19, and then falls through the duct 29 onto the rotary table 24. The material is then guided by the blade 30 onto the conveyor 17, which conveys it toward the pier,3. The rotary support 10 can turn the boom 11 etc. in the directions E1 E2 Fig. 2 . The drive 28 can rotate the elevator 19 on the vertical axis with the rake means 26 and the screw means 27. With reference to Fig. 6, when the screw means 27 moves in the direction F1, the rotating side cutter 73 excavates the material in front of itself. The blade 67 moves the excavated and fragmented material in the direction D2, In Fig. 2, the screw means 27 can be moved in the directionsG1 G2 without rotating on the axis of the elevator 19, by selectively combining the movements of the elevator 19 in the directions,Al A2 and E1 E2 and the rotation of the elevator on its own axis. Also, the screw means 27 may be rotated around the elevator 19 while the boom 11 is turned in the ,direction El,E2. The elevator.casing 31 and the rake means casing 38 are connected by the hydraulic cylinder 36 at a predetermined angle between the casings. As a result, as the scraper 45 scrapes the floor 58 Fig. 4 , impulses on the scraper can be absorbed. It is also possible to excavate only an upper portion of the material 57 with the scraper 45 spaced from the floor 58. Thus, it is possible toexcavateboth thick and thin layers of material. The unloader 1 is shown as riding the rails 4, but may instead be mounted on a gantry extending over a hold or a pool type storage and being movable along it. Figs. 8 12 show a partial modification of the unloader 1.The unloader includes a vertically extending bucket elevator 2, which is similar to the elevator 19 in the previous embodiment. The elevator 2 has a housing 3, which is provided with a chute 7 thereon. The housing 3 has a pair of stop members 10 11 secured to its outer surface on the upper and lower sides of the chute 7, respectively. As shown in Fig. 12, the stops 10 ll extend generally laterally and, form sections of a circle. The stops 10 11 are L shaped in radial cross section so hold a support plate 12 therebetween. The plate 12 has opposite arcuate edges, which form sections of a circle, in slidable engagement with the stops 10 11. The plate 12 also has central pin 21, which rotatably engages a hole Fig. 8 in the housing 3. The plate 12 is formed with an opening 32 below the pin 21, through which the chute 7 loosely extends. The opening 32 is so large that the plate 12 can turn around the pin 21 relative to the housing 3 within a limited range,. The plate 12 further has a bracket 14 secured thereto above the pin 21, and a pair of brackets 28 formed thereon below the pin. Rake means 9 is surrounded by a guide frame 13. The frame 13 has at one end a pair of hinge members 13a Fig. 11 . which are connected to both sides of the bracket 14 by a horizontal pin 15. The plate 12 is provided with a cover 62 Fig. 8 over the hinged end portion of the frame 13, in order to prevent dispersion of the material transferring from the rake means 9 to the chute 7. The pin 15 is secured at both ends to the lower ends of a pair of vertically extending support members 16 17, which are connected at the upper ends to the piston rods of a pair of hydraulic cylinders 18 19, respectively. The cylinders extend n parallel to the pin 15, and are secured at the inner ends to a bracket 20 on the housing 3. The cylinders 18 19 are adapted to act as,buffers to absorb displacement of, the supports 16 17, which is parallel to the cylinders. When the support plate 12 angularly moves around the pin 21, the buffers 18 19 prevent great forces from acting on the housing 3 etc. The rake means 9 has a drive 22 mounted thereon adjacent the hinged end to rotate a horizontal drive shaft 23 Fig. 9 , which is journalled in the rake means 9. The shaft 23 drives a chain not shown wound between it and a shaft 24 of screw means 8, which is mounted on the other end of the rake means 9 and extends perpendicularly thereto. The chain moves rakes 25 Figs. 9 10 on the chain and rotates screws 26 and side cutters 27 of the screw means 8. Connected between each bracket 28 on the support plate 12 and a bracket 29 on the frame 13 is a hydraulic jack 30 as a buffer, so that the rake means 9 extends downwardly and away from the casing 3. The rake means 9 has a pair of brackets 39 Fig. 11 aligned longitudinally on each of its sides. The frame 13 has a guide rod 43 extending longitudinally on each of its sides, and loosely through the brackets 39 on the same side. This enables the frame 13 to support the rake means 9 telescopically in the direction A4. The rake means 9 has another pair of brackets ,33 both of its sides. The frame 13 has a pair of brackets 35 on both of its sides. The brackets 33 and 35 on each side of the rake means 9 are interconnected by a hydraulic cylinder 37 as a buffer. which may be a doubl,e acting cylinder. The buffers 37 act to absorb reciprocating impulses of the rake means 9 relative to the frame 13. This prevents great forces from acting on the elevator casing 3 etc, In operation, as the screw means 8 moves in contact with a ship s floor. which includes oblique and non flat surfaces, the former is angularly displaced with the rake means 9, frame 13 and plate 12 around the pin 21. This enables the screw means 8 to follow various surfaces of the floor. In Figs. 13 15, another form of unloader 1 is shown as mounted 6n a ship 2, which has a pair of parallel rails 5 extending longitudinally on bath of its sides. The ship 2 also has a belt conveyor 8 extending in parallel to the rails 5 on the side adjacent a pier 7. The unloader 1 includes a gantry 12 having a pair of spaced parallel girders or cross beams 11, which are fixed together by both end,members 15 and bridge legs 9 between the rails 5. The legs 9 have wheels,6 and drive means not shown to move the unloader 1 along the rails 5. Secured to the end members 15 are a pair of winches 14 to wind wires 16. The girders 12 are bridged by a trolley 13, which is movable along them. The wires 16 connect the, trolley 13 respectively to the winches 14. The trolley 13 surrounds a bucket elevator 18, which substantially,vertically extends between the girders 11. The elevator 18 includes a conveyor belt 76 having buckets not shown thereon and surrounded by a housing 19, which is generally rectangular in croSs section. Formed on the housing 19 adjacent its bott dm are a pair of brackets 23, which support rake means 25 pivotably at a drive shaft 24. The rake means 25 carries a screw means 27 on the lower end, and is supported adjacent its middle against the elevator 18 through a buffer 37. The rake and screw means 25 and 27 are similar to those in the previous embodiments. With reference to Figs. 13, 15 and 16, an annular support 51 is fixed coaxially to the lower end of a sleeve 52, and the parts 51 52 coaxially and loosely surround the elevator casing 19. The sleeve 52 supports a pair of winches 21 and a set of upper rollers 45. The annular support 51 is fixed to an annulus 50 which supports a set of lower rollers 46. The rollers 45 46 surround and engage all the four side walls of the casing 19, so that the elevator 18 can vertically move but cannot rotate relative to the parts 50 52. The annulus 50 also supports a rotary table 28 on its upper side through roller bearings 53 around the sleeve 52. Fixed coaxially to the table 28 is a gear 44 in engagement with a pinion 43 of a drive 32, which is mounted on the annulus 51 to rotate the table 28. The annulus 51 is journalled in a bearing 77, which includes an outer race 78 fixed to the lower side of the annulus 51, an inner race 79 fixed to the trolley 13, and balls 80 between the races. The bearing 77 bears both thrust and radial loads. Mounted on the trolley 13 is a drive 20 having a pinion 41, which engages a gear 42 fixed to the outer race 78 to rotate the elevator 18 on its vertical axis relative to the trolley 13. Mounted on the elevator casing 19 adjacent its top is a duct 29 Figs. i3 14 , which curves outwardly and downwardly. The sleeve 52 supports a chute 30 Fig. 13 above the table 28. The duct 29 and the chute 30 are interconnected by a vertical chute cover 31 Figs. 13, 18 , which includes a plurality of telescopically coupled sleeves 31a d. The sleeve 31d of the smallest diameter is connected to the duct 29. As the elevator 18 vertically moves wfth the duct 29, the chute cover 31 can telescope. Fixed to the lower end of the chute 30 is a guide member 54 Fig. 16 . Fixed to the lower end of the member 54 is a rubber guide member 55 in flexible engagement with the rotary table 28. These guide members keep the material from dispersing or falling from the table 28. As shown in Fig. 17, each winch 21 mounted on the sleeve 52 has an output shaft, to which a drum 56 is fixed. The annulus 50 supports a row of pulleys 47, and the casing 19 supports a row of pulleys 48. A wire 58 is wound around the .drums 56 and pulleys 47 48, so as to suspend the elevator 18 and vertically move it by actuating the winches,21. Even if the winding speeds of the winches 21 differ, the single wire 58 allows equal loads to act on all pulleys 47 48, thereby vertically moving the elevator 18 without deflection. The maerial carried by the rotating table 28 is then guided by a blade 33 Fig. 14 onto a belt conveyor 34, which extends along one of the girders 11. The material is then conveyed toward the pier 7 and drops through a chute 35 Fig. 13 onto the conveyor 8. As shown in Fig. 19, the upper guide rollers 45 include a pair of parallel rollers 59 engaging opposite sides of the elevator casing 19, and two pairs of parallel rollers 61 engaging the other opposite sides of the casing 19 perpendicul arly to the rollers 59. The rollers 61. of each pair are axially spaced for the wire 58 to extend vertically. In Fig. 13, the trolley 13 is moved to the right, for example, by the right winch 14 winding up the wire 16. At this time, the left winch 14 is operated to produce a counter torque to tense the wire 16 between this winch and the trolley 13, for the following reason When the trolley 13 is pulled to the right in Fig. 13, if the left wire 16 loosens, and the ship 2 rolls clockwise, the trolley 13 may move by gravity to the right faster than would be pulled by the right winch 14. With reference to Figs. 13 and 20, the gantry 12 can move along the rails 5, and the trolley 13 can move aldng the girders 11. These movements can be combined to unload material at a desired location in a hold 67. Also, the bucket elevator 18 can vertically move, so as to unload both thick and tfiin layers of material in the hold 67. It should be possible to raciprocate the elevator 18, by a rack and pinion combination, instead of the winches 21. In Fig. 21, a pair of annular rails 70 are fixed around a cylindricai reservoir 69. An unloader l, similar to that inFigs. 13 15, includes a gantry 71 extending diametrically over the hold 69, and adapted to angularly move on the rails 70. The gantry 71 carries a trolley 72, which is movable along it. In each of the embodiments, the gantry could be replaeed by a girder, withOut legs. With reference to Fig. 22, a generally vertical elevator 1 includes a housing divided into three parts la, lb and lc. The upper and middle parts la lb are hinged together on one side, and the middle and lower parts Ib Ic are hinged together on the same side, respectively by horizontal hinge pins 2 3. The lower part lc supports a rake means 20, which supports a screw means 21. Connected between the upper and middle parts la lb is a hydraulic jack 4 to pivotally move the middle part lb around the hinge pin 2. Connected between the middle and lower parts lb lc is another hydraulic jack 5, which is controlled to keep the lower part lc always extending horizontally even if the middle part lb pivots around the pin 3. With reference to Fig. 24, the elevator includes a belt conveyor 6 within the housing. The conveyor 6 is wound between a drive pulley 7 and a return pulley 8 whcih are supported by the housing, and turns horizontally adjacent both ends in opposite directions at upper and lower disc rollers 9 10, which are supported by the housing. The conveyor 6 can articulatedly turn, as shown by chain lines in Fig. 24, at a middle disc roller 11 supported by the housing between the rollers 9 10, with the lower portion of the conveyor 6 kept horizontally extending by the hydraulic jack 5 Fig. 22 . As shown in Fig. 25, the conveyor 6 has a base belt 12, a pair of laterally spaced corrugated belts 13 fixed at one edge perpendicularly to the outer surface of the base 12 and extending along it, and a number of longitudinally spaced cross plates 14 fixed at one end to the base 12 and extending laterally between the corrugated belts 13. Thus, the base 12, the corrugated belts 13 and the cross plates 14 form,a number of box like troughs. The corrugated belts 13 enable the conveyor 6 to flexibly turn in a plane generally parallel to them. As shown in Fig. 26, each disc roller 9 11 has a horizontal shaft 15 journalled on the elevator housing. The shaft 15 supports a pair of spaced outer discs 16 in rolling engagement with the outer surface of both side margins of the base belt 12. The shaft 15 also supports a pair of spaced inner discs 17, which have a smaller diameter than the outer discs 16, in rolling engagement with the outer edges of the corrugated belts 13. As shown in Fig. 24, the, outer portions qf the, conveyor 6 around the disc rollers 9 11 are tensed by carrier rollers 18 in engagement with the inner surface of the base belt 12. The articulated elevator 1 allows for a wider reach of the rake and screw means a 0 21 in a ship.