# HERBICIDAL CYCLOHEXANE 1,3 DIONE DERIVATIVES

## Claims
Verbindung der Formel I worin Y ausgewählt ist aus C₁ C₆ Alkylsulfonyl, C₁ C₆ Halogenoalkylsulfonyl, C₂ C₆ Halogenoalkanoyl, R⁵CO und R⁵CS, wobei R⁵ ausgewählt ist aus Hydroxy, C₁ C₆ Alkoxy, Amino, C₁ C₆ Alkylamino und Di C₁ C₆ alkyl amino Z ausgewählt ist aus Wasserstoff, Halogen, C₁ C₄ Alkyl, C₂ C₄ Alkanoyl, Sulfamoyl, C₁ C₄ Alkylsulfamoyl, Di C₁ C₄ alkyl sulfamoyl, Carboxy und Trifluoroacetylamino R¹ ausgewählt ist aus Wasserstoff, einer Acylgruppe und einem anorganischen oder organischen Kation R² ausgewählt ist aus C₁ C₆ Alkyl, C₂ C₆ Alkenyl, C₂ C₆ Halogenoalkenyl, C₃ C₆ Alkinyl und substituiertem C₁ C₆ Alkyl, wobei die Alkylgruppe mit einem aus Halogen, Phenyl und substituiertem Phenyl ausgewählten Substituenten substituiert ist, wobei der Benzol Ring mit 1 bis 3 aus Halogen und C₁ C₆ Alkyl ausgewählten Substituenten substituiert ist R³ ausgewählt ist aus C₁ C₆ Alkyl und R⁴ ausgewählt ist aus Wasserstoff, C₁ C₆ Alkyl und C₁ C₆ Alkoxy carbonyl.

## Description
This invention relates to organic compounds having biological activity and in particular to organic compounds having herbicidal properties and plant growth regulating properties, to processes for the preparation of such compounds, to intermediates useful in the preparation of such compounds and to herbicidal compositions and processes utilizing such compounds and processes utilizing such compounds. The use of certain cyclohexane 1,3 dione derivatives as grass herbicides is known in the art. For example, the Pesticide Manual C R Worthing Editor, The British Crop Protection Council, 6th Edition 1979 describes the cyclohexane 1,3 dione derivative known commercially as alloxydim sodium methyl 3 1 allyloxyimino butyl 4 hydroxy 6,6 dimethyl 2 oxocyclohex 3 ene carboxylate and its use as a grass herbicide. This compound is disclosed in Australian Patent No 464 655 and its equivalents such as UK Patent No 1 461 170 and US Patent No 3 950 420. A variety of herbicidal compounds containing 5 substituted phenyl cyclohexane 1,3 diones are described in the art. For example, French Patent 2,518,990, as well as the published British Patent application equivalent thereto, viz., No 2,116,544 describe various 5 4 substituted phenyl cyclohexane 1,3 diones and European Patent Application 085,529 describes various 5 polysubstituted phenyl cyclohexane 1,3 diones and their herbicidal properties. It has now been found that a new group of cyclohexan 1,3 dione derivatives which have a 5 mesityl substituent which is in turn substituted with a particular kind of functionalized amino group, exhibit exceptionally high general grass killing activity. Accordingly the invention provides a compound of formula I wherein Y is selected from the group consisting of C₁ to C₆ alkylsulfonyl C₁ to C₆ haloalkylsulfonyl C₂ to C₆ haloalkanoyl R⁵CO and R⁵CS wherein R⁵ is selected from the group consisting of hydroxy, C₁ to C₆ alkoxy, amino, C₁ to C₆ alkylamino and di C₁ to C₆ alkyl amino Z is selected from the group consisting of hydrogen, halogen, C₁ to C₄ alkyl, C₁ to C₄ alkanoyl, sulfamoyl, C₁ to C₄ alkylsulfamoyl, di C₁ to C₄ alkyl sulfamoyl, carboxy and trifluoroacetylamino R¹ is selected from the group consisting of hydrogen an acyl group and an inorganic or organic cation R² is selected from the group consisting of C₁ to C₆ alkyl C₂ to C₆ alkenyl C₂ to C₆ haloalkenyl C₃ to C₆ alkynyl and substituted C₁ to C₆ alkyl wherein the alkyl group is substituted with a substituent selected from the group consisting of halogen, phenyl, and substituted phenyl wherein the benzene ring is substituted with from one to three substituents selected from the group consisting of halogen, and C₁ to C₆ alkyl R³ is selected from the group consisting of C₁ to C₆ alkyl and R⁴ is selected from the group consisting of hydrogen C₁ to C₆ alkyl and C₁ to C₆ alkoxy carbonyl. When in the compound of formula I R¹ is chosen from acyl the nature of the acyl group is not narrowly critical. Although not intending to be bound by theory, it is believed that when R¹ is acyl the acyl group may be removed in the plant by hydrolysis to give the corresponding compound of formula I in which R¹ is hydrogen. Suitable acyl groups include alkanoyl, for example C₂ to C₆ alkanoyl aroyl, for example benzoyl and substituted benzoyl wherein the benzene ring is substituted with from one to three substituents chosen from the group consisting of halogen, nitro, cyano, C₁ to C₆ alkyl, C₁ to C₆ haloalkyl, C₁ to C₆ alkoxy and C₁ to C₆ alkylthio. When in the compound of formula I R¹ is chosen from an inorganic or organic cation the nature of the cation is not narrowly critical. Although not intending to be bound by theory, it is believed that when R¹ is a cation the cation may be removed in the plant to give a compound of formula I wherein R¹ is hydrogen. Suitable inorganic cations include the alkali and alkaline earth metal ions, heavy metal ions including the transition metal ions, and the ammonium ion. Suitable organic cations include the cation R⁶R⁷R⁸R⁹N The compounds of the invention may exist in two isomeric forms as shown below, wherein Ø represents the group It should be recognized that when R¹ is hydrogen the compounds of the invention may exist in any one of four tautomeric forms as shown below wherein Ø represents the group Preferred compounds of the invention include those compounds of formula I wherein the substituent Y is chosen from the group trifluoroacetyl trifluoromethanesulfonyl alkoxycarbonyl carbamoyl and N alkyl thio carbamoyl Z is selected from hydrogen, methyl, C₂ to C₄ alkanoyl, halogen, sulfamoyl, dimethylsulfamoyl and trifluoroacetylamino R¹ is selected from hydrogen, the alkali metal cations, C₂ to C₆ alkanoyl, benzoyl and substituted benzoyl wherein the benzoyl ring is substituted with from one to three substituents chosen from halogen, nitro and cyano R² is selected from the group consisting of C₁ to C₄ alkyl, C₂ to C₄ alkenyl, C₃ to C₄ alkynyl, C₁ to C₄ haloalkyl and C₂ to C₄ halo alkenyl R³ is selected from C₁ to C₆ alkyl and R⁴ is hydrogen. More preferred compounds of the invention include those compounds of formula I wherein Y is trifluoroacetyl, trifluoromethanesulfonyl or N alkylcarbamoyl Z is selected from hydrogen, methyl or acetyl R¹ is selected from hydrogen and the alkali metal cations R² is selected from methyl, ethyl, n propyl, allyl, propargyl and 3 chloroallyl R³ is selected from methyl, ethyl and n propyl R⁴ is hydrogen. Examples of compounds embraced by the invention include Specific examples of the compounds of the invention include those compounds detailed in Table 1 below. The compounds of the invention may be prepared by a variety of methods and in a further aspect the invention provides methods for the preparation of compounds of formula I. Conveniently the preparation of the invention can be considered in four or five parts. Part A involves the formation of a 5 arylcyclohexan 1,3 dione of formula IX. This reaction may be carried out in a two step process by Part B involves the acylation of a compound of formula IX to give a 2 acylcyclohexane 1,3 dione derivative of formula Xa. Alternatively Part B involves the acylation of a compound of formula VIIIa or VIIIb to give a 2 acylcyclohexane 1,3 dione derivative of formula XIa or XIb respectively which may be hydrolysed, preferably in the presence of a base, to give a 2 acylcyclohexane 1,3 dione of formula Xa. The acylation reaction may be carried out by reacting a cyclohexane 1,3 dione derivative of formula VIII or IX with Alternatively, this acylation reaction may be carried out by Part C involves the reaction of a compound of formula Xa by electrophilic aromatic nitration to give a compound of formula Xb which may readily be converted to a compound of formula Xc by reduction and N acylation. Part D involves the formation of a compound of the invention of formula I wherein R¹ is hydrogen, that is a compound of formula II. This reaction may be carried out either by reacting a 2 acyl cyclohexane 1,3 dione of formula Xc with Part E involves the formation of a compound of the invention of formula I wherein R¹ is a substituent other than hydrogen. Compounds of the invention of formula I, wherein R¹ forms an acyl derivative of a compound of formula II, may be prepared from the corresponding compounds of the invention of formula II by reacting with an acylation reagent of formula XXI, wherein L is a leaving group preferably a halogen. Compounds of the invention of formula I wherein R¹ is an inorganic or organic cation may be prepared from the compounds of the invention of formula I wherein R¹ is hydrogen, that is, compounds of formula II, by reacting said compounds of formula II with an inorganic or organic salt. For example, the compounds of formula I wherein R¹ is an alkali metal ion may be prepared by reacting the appropriate compound of formula II with the appropriate alkali metal hydroxide or alkoxylate. The compounds of formula I wherein R¹ is a transition metal ion or an organic cation may similarly be prepared by reacting the appropriate compound of formula II with an appropriate transition metal salt or organic base. Alternatively, the compounds of formula I wherein R¹ is a transition metal ion or an organic cation may be prepared by reacting the appropriate compound of formula I wherein R¹ is an alkali metal ion with an appropriate transition metal salt or organic salt. Accordingly, in a further aspect the invention provides a process for the preparation of a compound of formula I, as hereinbefore defined, which process comprises reacting a 2 acylcyclohexane 1,3 dione derivative of formula Xc with an alkoxyamine derivative of formula XVIII to give a compound of the invention of formula II or reacting the 2 acylcyclohexane 1,3 dione derivative of formula Xc with hydroxylamine and alkylating the oxime intermediate of formula XIX with an alkylating agent of formula XX, wherein L is a leaving group, to give a compound of the invention of formula II and optionally reacting the compound of the invention of formula II with a compound of formula XXI wherein L is a leaving group, to give a compound of the invention of formula I. Certain of the intermediate compounds of formula Xc, are novel compounds and therefore in further embodiments the invention provides novel compounds of formula Xc, and processes for the preparation thereof. The structures of the compounds described above are detailed on the following pages. The compounds of formula I are active as herbicides and therefore, in a further aspect the invention provides a process for severely damaging or killing unwanted plants which process comprises applying to the plants, or to the growth medium of the plants, an effective amount of a compound of formula I as hereinbefore defined. Generally speaking the compounds of formula I are herbicidally effective against monocotyledonous plants, dicotyledonous plants being relatively unaffected by rates of application of the compounds of the invention which are severely damaging or lethal to most grass species. Accordingly, in yet a further aspect the invention provides a process for controlling monocotyledonous weeds in cultivated crops, which process comprises applying to the crop, or to the growth medium of the crop, a compound of formula I, as hereinbefore defined, in an amount sufficient to severely damage or kill the weeds but insufficient to damage the crop substantially. The compounds of formula I may be applied directly to the plant post emergence application or to the soil before the emergence of the plant pre emergence application . However, the compounds are, in general, more effective when applied to the plant post emergence. The compounds of formula I may be used on their own to inhibit the growth of, severly damage, or kill plants but are preferably used in the form of a composition comprising a compound of the invention in admixture with a carrier comprising a solid or liquid diluent. Therefore, in yet a further aspect the invention provides growth inhibiting, plant damaging, or plant killing compositions comprising a compound of formula I as hereinbefore defined and an inert carrier therefor. Certain of the compounds of formula I exhibit useful plant growth regulating activity. For example, while compounds of formula I are selectivity active herbicides against wild grasses in crops of cultivated plants at some rates of application they exhibit plant growth regulating effects in said crops. Plant growth regulating effects may be manifested in a number of ways. For example, raising the sugar content of plants, suppression of apical dominance, stimulation of auxiliary bud growth, stimulation of early flowering and seed formation, enhancement of flowering and increase in seed yield, stem thickening, stem shortening and tillering. Plant growth regulating effects shown in compounds of the invention may include, for example, tillering and stem shortening in crops such as wheat and barley, and increasing the sugar content of sugar cane. Accordingly in a still further aspect the invention provides a process for regulating the growth of a plant which process comprises applying to the plant, to the seed of the plant, or to the growth medium of the plant, an effective amount of a compound of formula I, as hereinbefore defined. To effect the plant growth regulating process of the present invention the compounds of formula I may be applied directly to the plant post emergence application or to the seed or soil before the emergence of the plant pre emergence application. The compounds of formula I may be used on their own to regulate the growth of plants but in general are preferably used in the form of a composition comprising a compound of the invention in admixture with a carrier comprising a solid or liquid diluent. Therefore, in a still further aspect the invention provides plant growth regulating compositions comprising a compound of formula I as hereinbefore defined and an inert carrier therefor. The compositions of the present invention may be in the form of solids, liquids or pastes. The compositions include both dilute compositions which are ready for immediate use and concentrated compositions which may require dilution before use. Therefore, the concentration of the active ingredient in the compositions of the present invention will vary depending on the types of formulation and whether the composition is ready for use such as, for example, a dust formulation or an aqueous emulsion or whether the composition is a concentrate such as, for example, an emulsifiable concentrate or a wettable powder, which is suitable for dilution before use. In general the compositions of the present invention comprise from 1 ppm to 99 by weight of active ingredient. The solid compositions may be in the form of powders, dusts, pellets, grains, and granules wherein the active ingredient is mixed with a solid diluent. Powders and dusts may be prepared by mixing or grinding the active ingredient with a solid carrier to give a finely divided composition. Granules, grains and pellets may be prepared by bonding the active ingredient to a solid carrier, for example, by coating or impregnating the preformed granular solid carrier with the active ingredient or by agglomeration techniques. Examples of solid carriers include mineral earths and clays such as, for example, kaolin, bentonite, kieselguhr, Fuller s earth, Attaclay, diatomaceous earth, bole, loess, talc, chalk, dolomite, limestone, lime, calcium carbonate, gypsum, calcium sulfate, pyrophyllite, silicic acid, silicates and silica gels fertilizers such as, for example, ammonium sulfate, ammonium phosphate, ammonium nitrate and urea natural products of vegetable origin such as, for example, grain meals and flours, bark meals, wood meals, nutshell meals and cellulosic powders and synthetic polymeric materials such as, for example, ground or powdered plastics and resins. Alternatively, the solid compositions may be in the form of dispersible or wettable dusts, powders, granules or grains wherein the active ingredient and the solid carrier are combined with one or more surface active agents which act as wetting, emulsifying and or dispersing agents to facilitate the dispersion of the active ingredient in liquid. Examples of surface active agents include those of the cationic, anionic and non ionic type. Cationic surface active agents include quaternary ammonium compounds, for example, the long chain alkylammonium salts such as cetyltrimethylammonium bromide. Anionic surface active agents include soaps or the alkali metal, alkaline earth metal and ammonium salts of fatty acids the alkali metal, alkaline earth metal and ammonium salts of ligninsulfonic acid the alkali metal, alkaline earth metal and ammonium salts of arylsulfonic acids including the salts of naphthalenesulfonic acids such as butylnaphthalenesulfonic acids, the di and tri isopropylnaphthalenesulfonic acids, the salts of the condensation products of sulfonated naphthalene and naphthalene derivatives with formaldehyde, the salts of the condensation products of sulfonated naphthalene and naphthalene derivatives with phenol and formaldehyde, and the salts of alkylarylbenzenesulfonic acids such as dodecylbenzenesulfonic acid the alkali metal, alkaline earth metal and ammonium salts of the long chain mono esters of sulfuric acid or alkylsulfates such as laurylsulfate and the mono esters of sulfuric acid with fatty alcohol glycol ethers. Nonionic surface active agents include the condensation products of ethylene oxide with phenols and alkylphenols such as isooctylphenol, octylphenol and nonylphenol the condensation products of ethylene oxide with castor oil the partial esters derived from long chain fatty acids and hexitol anhydrides, for example sorbitan monolaurate, and their condensation products with ethylene oxide ethylene oxide propylene oxide block copolymers lauryl alcohol polyglycol ether acetal and the lecithins. The liquid compositions may comprise a solution or dispersions of the active ingredient in a liquid carrier optionally containing one or more surface active agents which act as wetting, emulsifying and or dispersing agents. Examples of liquid carriers include water mineral oil fractions such as, for example, kerosene, solvent naphtha, petroleum, coal tar oils and aromatic petroleum fractions aliphatic, cycloaliphatic and aromatic hydrocarbons such as, for example, paraffin, cyclohexane, toluene, the xylenes, tetrahydronaphthalene and alkylated naphthalenes alcohols such as, for example, methanol, ethanol, propanol, isopropanol, butanol, cyclohexanol and propylene glycol ketones such as, for example, cyclohexanone and isophorone and strongly polar organic solvents such as, for example, dimethylformamide, dimethylsulfoxide, N methylpyrrolidone and sulfolane. A preferred liquid composition comprises an aqueous suspension, dispersion or emulsion of the active ingredient which is suitable for application by spraying, atomizing or watering. Such aqueous compostions are generally prepared by mixing concentrated compositions with water. Suitable concentrated compositions include emulsion concentrates, pastes, oil dispersions, aqueous suspensions and wettable powders. The concentrates are usually required to withstand storage for prolonged periods and after such storage to be capable of dilution with water to form aqueous preparations which remain homogeneous for a sufficient time to enable them to be applied by conventional spray equipment. The concentrates conveniently contain from 10 to 99 , preferably 10 to 60 , by weight of active ingredient. Emulsion or emulsifiable concentrates are conveniently prepared by dissolving the active ingredient in an organic solvent containing one or more surface active agents and optionally an oil. Oil dispersions may be prepared by grinding together the active ingredient, a hydrocarbon oil, and one or more surface active agents. Aqueous suspension concentrates may conveniently be prepared by ball milling a mixture of the active agent and preferably at least one suspending agent. Suitable suspending agents include hydrophilic colloids such as, for example, poly N vinylpyrrolidone , sodium carboxymethylcellulose and the vegetable gums, gum acacia and gum tragacanth hydrated colloidal mineral silicates such as, for example, montmorillonite, beidellite, nontronite, hectorite, saponite, sauconite and bentonite other cellulose derivatives and poly vinyl alcohol . Wettable powder concentrates may conveniently be prepared by blending together the active ingredient, one or more surface active agents, one or more solid carriers and optionally one or more suspending agents and grinding the mixture to give a powder having the required particle size. The aqueous suspensions, dispersions or emulsions may be prepared from the concentrated compositions by mixing the concentrated compositions with water optionally containing surface active agents and or oils. It should be noted that the compounds of the invention of formula I wherein R¹ is hydrogen are acidic. Therefore, the compounds of formula I may be formulated and applied as the salts of organic or inorganic bases. In formulating and employing the compounds of formula I in the form of their salts either the salts per se, that is the compounds of formula I wherein R¹ is an inorganic or an organic cation, may be used in the formulation or the compounds of formula I wherein R¹ is hydrogen may be used in the formulation and the salts generated in situ by the use of the appropriate organic or inorganic base. The mode of application of the compositions of the invention will depend to a large extent on the type of composition used and the facilities available for its application. Solid compositions may be applied by dusting or any other suitable means for broadcasting or spreading the solid. Liquid compositions may be applied by spraying, atomizing, watering, introduction into the irrigation water, or any other suitable means for broadcasting or spreading the liquid. The rate of application of the compounds of the invention will depend on a number of factors including, for example, the compound chosen for use, the identity of the plants whose growth is to be inhibited the formulations selected for use and whether the compound is to be applied for foliage or root uptake. As a general guide, however, an application rate of from 0.005 to 20 kilograms per hectate is suitable while from 0.01 to 5.0 kilograms per hectare may be preferred. The compositions of the invention may comprise, in addition to one or more compounds of the invention, one or more compounds not of the invention but which possess biological activity. For example, as hereinbefore indicated the compounds of the invention are in general substantially more effective against monocotyledonous plants or grass species than against dicotyledonous plants or broad leaved species. As a result, in certain applications the herbicidal use of the compounds of the invention alone may not be sufficient to protect a crop. Accordingly in yet a still further embodiment the invention provides a herbicidal composition comprising a mixture of at least one herbicidal compound of formula I as hereinbefore defined with at least one other herbicide. The other herbicide may be any herbicide not having the formula I. It will generally be a herbicide having a complementary action. For example, one preferred class is of mixtures comprising a herbicide active against broad leaved weeds. A second preferred class is of mixtures comprising a contact herbicide. Examples of useful complementary herbicides include The invention is now illustrated by, but in no way limited to, the following Examples. The invention is now illustrated by but in no way limited to the following Examples. Compounds Nos 8 and 11 were prepared by a similar procedure to that described in Example 2 and starting with the appropriate isocyanate. The compounds were characterized by their behaviour on thin layer chromatography and their proton magnetic resonance spectra. The spectroscopic data is summarized in Table 2, Example 8 below. Compounds Nos 6, 7, 9 and 10 were prepared by a similar procedure to that described in Example 4 and starting with the appropriate acyl or sulfonic anhydride. The compounds were each characterized by their proton magnetic resonance spectra, together with their behaviour on thin layer chromatography. The spectroscopic data is summarized in Table 2, Example 8 below. The majority of the compounds of the invention were obtained as oils and were characterized by, and can be identified by, their nuclear magnetic resonance spectra. For convenience proton nuclear magnetic resonance pmr spectroscopic data is recorded in Table 2 below. This non limiting Example illustrates the preparation of formulations of the compounds of the invention. Emulsifiable concentrates and or suspensions of the compounds of the invention were prepared essentially as described in part a , b or c above and then diluted with water, optionally containing surface active agent and or oil, to give aqueous compositions of the required concentration which were used, as described in Examples 10 to 12, in the evaluation of the pre emergence and post emergence herbicidal activity of the compounds. The pre emergent herbicidal activity of the compounds of the invention formulated as described in Example 9 was assessed by the following procedure The seeds of the test species were sown in rows 2 cm deep in soil contained in seed boxes. The monocotyledonous plants and the dicotyledonous plants were sown in separate boxes and after sowing the two boxes were sprayed with the required quantity of a composition of the invention. Two duplicate seed boxes were prepared in the same manner but were not sprayed with a composition of the invention and were used for comparison purposes. All the boxes were placed in a glass house, lightly watered with an overhead spray to initiate germination and then sub irrigated as required for optimum plant growth. After three weeks the boxes were removed from the glass house and the effect of the treatment was visually assessed. The results are presented in Table 3 where the damage to plants is rated on a scale of from 0 to 5 where 0 represents from 0 to 10 damage, 1 represents from 11 to 30 damage, 2 represents from 31 to 60 damage, 3 represents from 61 to 80 damage, 4 represents from 81 to 99 damage and 5 represents 100 kill. A dash means that no experiment was carried out. The names of the test plants are as follows The post emergent herbicidal activity of the compounds of the invention formulated as described in Example 9 was assessed by the following procedure. The seeds of the test species were sown in rows 2 cm deep in soil contained in seed boxes. The monocotyledonous plants and the dicotyledonous plants were sown in separate seed boxes in duplicate. The four seed boxes were placed in a glass house, lightly watered with an overhead spray to initiate germination and then sub irrigated as required for optimum plant growth. After the plants had grown to a height of about 10 to 12.5 cm one box of each of the monocotyledonous plants and the dicotyledonous plants was removed from the glass house and sprayed with the required quantity of a composition of the invention. After spraying the boxes were returned to the glass house for a further 3 weeks and the effect of treatment was visually assessed by comparison with the untreated controls. The results are presented in Table 4 where the damage to plants is rated on a scale of from 0 to 5 where 0 represents from 0 to 10 damage, 1 represents from 11 to 30 damage, 2 represents from 31 to 60 damage, 3 represents from 61 to 80 damage, 4 represents from 81 to 99 damage and 5 represents 100 kill. A dash means that no experiment was carried out. The names of the test plants are as follows The compounds were formulated for test by mixing an appropriate amount with 5 ml of an emulsion prepared by diluting 160 ml of a solution containing 21.9 g per litre of Span 80 and 78.2 g per litre of Tween 20 in methylcyclohexanone to 500 ml with water. Span 80 is a Trade Mark for a surface active agent comprising sorbitan monolaurate. Tween 20 is a Trade mark for a surface active agent comprising a condensate of sorbitan monolaurate with 20 molar proportions of ethylene oxide. Each 5 ml emulsion containing a test compound was then diluted to 40 ml with water and sprayed on to young pot plants post emergence test of the species named in Table 5 below. Damage to test plants was assessed after 14 days on a scale of 0 to 5 where 0 is 0 to 20 damage and 5 is complete kill. The degree of herbicidal damage was assessed by comparison with untreated control plants. The results are given in Table 5 below. A dash means that no experiment was carried out. The names of the test plants were as follows