# SOLID PHASE PEPTIDE SYNTHESIS

## Abstract
A method of solid phase peptide synthesis includes use of a reusable insoluble polymer resin having functional groups of the formula Resin NHRNHCO CH₂

## Claims
1. A method of solid phase peptide synthesis including the steps of combining an insoluble polymer resin with a diamine and a lactone the diamine having the formula I , wherein R is selected from an alkyl or cycloalkyl group having 2 to 20 carbon atoms, an aromatic group, substituted aromatic group, heterocyclic group and substituted heterocylic group H₂NRNH₂ I and the lactone having the formula wherein X and Y are independently selected from hydrogen. C₁ to C₅ alkyl or NHZ where Z is selected from aryl, aroyl or other protecting group and n is 0, 1,2 or 3. Resin NHRNHCOCHY CH₂ nCHXOH II phosphorylating the alcohol II with an arylphosphorodrichloridate to produce an alkyl aryl phosphorochloridate treating the alkyl arylphosphorochloridate with a compound of formula III wherein l and m are integers from 1 to 4, and R₁ is a cycloalkyl group, aromatic group, substituted aromatic group, heterocyclic group or substituted heterocyclic group to produce a phosphotriester HO CH₂ lR₁ CH₂ mOH III treating the phosphotriester with base to produce a dialkylphosphate ester of formula IV condensing the dialkylphosphate ester IV with a protected amino acid anhydride forming a peptide by repeating a process of deprotection and coupling with protected amino acids, treating the peptide with phosphodiesterase to cleave the peptide from the resin.

## Description
This invention relates to a method of solid phase peptide synthesis and to materials for use in performance of the method. Use of insoluble polymer resins such as polyamide as a substrate for peptide synthesis is well established. However, currently available resins are expensive and must be discarded after a single use According to a first aspect of the present invention a method of solid phase peptide synthesis including the steps of combining an insoluble polymer resin with a diamine and a lactone the diamine having the formula I , wherein R is selected from an alkyl or cycloalkyl group having 2 to 20 carbon atoms, an aromatic group, substituted aromatic group, heterocyclic group and substituted heterocyclic group H₂NRNH₂ I and the lactones having the formula The free peptide may be obtained by removal of the diol III by catalytic hydrogenolysis, treatment with strong acid or by use of an appropriate enzyme. The resin resultant from the treatment with phosphodiesterase may be treated with alkaline phosphatase to produce the alcohol II which can be reused. The cleaved peptide derivative can also be treated with alkaline phosphatase to give a peptide ester. A peptide amide can be obtained by cleavage of the peptide from the resin with ammonia. Initial treatment of the insoluble resin with the compound I serves to distance the subsequently formed phosphate from the surface of the resin facilitating hydrolysis by phosphodiesterase which could otherwise be sterically inhibited. Preferred compounds I have a rigid carbon skeleton such as cycloaliphatic or other rings. The diamine and lactone are preferably condensed together to form a compound of the formula V wherein R and n are as defined above. H₂NRNHCOCHY CH₂ The compound V may be conveniently condensed with the resin to produce the compound II . Alternatively the diamine I may be condensed with the resin and the product in turn condensed with the lactone to produce the compound II . Combination of the resin and compound V is preferred to minimise side reactions,thereby providing a cleaner product having superior physical properties. A particularly preferred diamine I is bis aminomethyl cyclohexane. The 1,3 or 1,4 isomers may be employed. Preferred lactones have n 1 and one of X or Y being hydrogen the other being hydrogen or methyl. Especially preferred lactones are γ butyrolactone or a protected homoserine lactone i.e. wherein n is 3, for example N acetyl homoserine lactone. 4 Nitrophenylphosphorodichloridate has been found to be a suitable phosphorylating agent. Other agents which have labile leaving groups may be employed alternatively. A preferred diol III is 1,4 bis hydroxymethyl benzene but other 4 substituted benzyl alcohols are also preferred. 1, 3 bis hydroxymethyl benzene may also be used but is more expensive. An alternative reagent is bis hydroxymethyl furan. Use of a polyacrylamide resin is preferred although other resins known to those skilled in the art e.g. polystyrene may be employed. The protected amino acid anhydride is preferably the N fluorenylmethoxycarbonyl Fmoc derivative, although the t butyloxycarbonyl Boc , O tertiary butyl or 4 methoxy 2,3,6 trimethylbenzenesulphonyl Mtr derivatives may be used alternatively. According to a second aspect of the present invention a solid phase peptide synthesis substrate comprises a functionalised insoluble polymer resin having the formula II wherein R, X, Y and n are as previously defined. The invention is further described by means of example and not in any limitative sense, with reference to the following example. 1,3 Bis aminomethyl cyclohexane 30g. 0.21 moles and γ butyrolactone 18g 0.21 moles were stirred together. After about 30 min, the flask became warm and after several hours, the mixture was extremely viscous. Dioxan 50ml was added and the mixture was heated to approximately 80 C for 6 h with stirring. The bulk of the solvent was removed in a rotary evaporator and the remainder and any unchanged diamine was removed at 1mm pressure at 100 C. The product 45g was a viscous oil which was homogeneous on thin layer chromatography and could be used without further purification. A polyacrylamide resin with functional ester groups e.g. Pepsyn K , Cambridge Research Biochemicals, Cambridge, UK 2.0g was suspended in NN dimethyl formamide 50ml and 1 N 4 hydroxanoyl aminomethyl 3 aminomethyl cyclohexan e 10 g was added. The mixture was agitated at 30 C for 4 days and the resin was washed 10 times with 20 ml aliquot of NN dimethyl formamide. A small portion of the product resin was tested for the absence of free amino groups by the ninhydrin reagent. The foregoing resin derivative was treated with p nitrophenyl phosphorodichloridate 5g in NN dimethylformamide 25ml followed by pyridine 25ml and the mixture was agitated under nitrogen for 27 h during which time the supernatant turned from pale red to almost black. The supernatant was removed and the resin was washed by resuspension once with pyridine NN dimethylformamide 40 ml 1 1 by volume and five times with NN dimethylformamide 25 ml . The product resin turned a golden yellow colour as a result of the phosphorylation step. The product from the previous step was treated with a solution of 1,4 bis hydroxymethyl benzene in NN dimethylformamide 20 ml and pyridine 20 ml with agitation for 40h. The supernatant was removed and the product resin was washed by resuspension once with pyridine NN dimethylformamide mixture and five times with NN dimethylformamide. The product from the previous step was suspended for 3h in a mixture of NN dimethylformamide 20 ml , piperidine 20 ml and water 20 ml in order to hydrolyse the phosphotriester. The resultant resin was washed by resuspension twice in the above solvent, twice with NN dimethylformamide piperidine 1 1 by volume , five times with NN dimethylformamide, twice with NN dimethylformamide methanol 1 1 by volume , five times with methanol, twice with methanol dichloromethane 1 1 by volume and five times with dichloromethane. The derivatized resin was filtered and dried over P₂O₅ and silica gel in a desiccator. Coupling steps were generally carried out with symmetrical anhydrides of 9 fluorenylmethoxy carbonyl Fmoc protected amino acids in NN dimethylformamide using a 2 6 fold excess of anhydride. Where required, functional side chains of Fmoc amino acids were protected with appropriate groups such as N tert butoxycarbonyl Boc , O tert butyl, 4 methoxy 2,3,6 trimethylbenzenesulphonyl Mtr . In the case of Fmoc asparagine and Fmoc glutamine, coupling was achieved using a reactive ester e.g. p nitrophenyl in presence of 1 hydroxybenzotriazole in NN dimethylformamide. After completion of each coupling step, the Fmoc protecting group was removed by exposure to piperidine in NN dimethylformamide. Alternatively, the peptide could be assembled using Boc amino acids. After completion of the assembly of the peptide on the resin, all protecting groups could be removed by standard procedures or left intact for further coupling to other peptides by classical solution methods The peptide could be recovered as a C terminal amide by treatment with methanol saturated with ammonia. The resin was reusable after washing with NN dimethylformamide. The peptide could be recovered as a C terminal p hydroxymethylbenzyl ester by a two stage enzymic cleavage process. The resin was first exposed to phosphodiesterase e.g. from spleen in 0.15M sodium acetate buffer pH5.0 containing 0.01M ethylenediamine tetraacetate. It was important to inhibit irreversibly any contaminating proteinases, for example, by prior treatment with iodoacetamide. The second cleavage step was achieved by exposure to alkaline phosphomonesterase at pH10. The recovered resin could be recycled by entering the derivatization process at the stage involving phosphorylation with p nitrophenyl phosphorodichloridate. If recycling of the resin was not essential, only the first cleavage step with phosphodiesterase was necessary. Irrespective of whether phosphodiesterase was used alone or followed by treatment with phosphomonesterase, the peptide with a free terminal carboxyl group could be obtained by cleavage of the substituted benzyl ester function using 33 HBr in acetic acid. In all cases it was desirable to subject the isolated peptide to purification, for example, by high performance liquid chromatography. Using the above methodology, peptides such as Leu⁵ enkephalin, casomorphin and substance P of high purity have been synthesized in good yield.