# Method of making a shadow mask

## Claims
Verfahren zur Herstellung einer Lochmaske, die eine mitÖffnungen versehene Metallplatte umfaßt, für eine Farbkathodenstrahlröhre,bei dem man eine Suspension einer MetallalkoxidVerbindungund eines Füllstoffs auf die mit Öffnungen verseheneMetallplatte aufsprüht, wobei das Metall der Metallalkoxid Verbindungaus der aus Silizium, Titan, Aluminium, Zirkoniumund einem Gemisch daraus bestehenden Gruppe ausgewählt wird undder Füllstoff aus der aus Metall, Metalloxid, Metallcarbid,Metallnitrid und einem Gemisch daraus bestehenden Gruppe ausgewähltwird, und die Suspension auf der Metallplatte einerWärmebehandlung unterzieht, um sie in eine amorphes Metalloxidoder hydroxid oder ein Gemisch daraus und den Füllstoff umfassendeSchicht umzusetzen.

## Description
This invention relates to a method for making a shadow mask for colourcathode ray tubes. In general, a shadow mask type colour cathode ray tubecomprises an electron gun in the tube emitting threeelectron beams, a shadow mask distributing these beamsselectively by colour, and a phosphor screen emitting lightin the three colours, red, green and blue, on excitation bythese beams. The image formed on the screen is observedthrough an envelope panel. In the shadow mask there areprovided a large number of apertures which correspondprecisely with the phosphor pattern of the respective colouron the screen. As the effective electron beams passingthrough these apertures during colour cathode ray tubeoperation represent somewhat less than a third of theincoming beams, the rest of the electrons impinge on theshadow mask and their energy is converted into heat energy,raising the temperature of the shadow mask. In a normaloperating television set, the shadow mask is thereby heatedto a temperature of about 80 C. In the special colourcathode ray tubes used in the instrument panels in aircraftcockpits, the shadow mask temperature can rise to around200 C. Most shadow masks consist of a lamina 0.1 to 0.3 mmthick, made by cold rolling, of which the main constituentis iron of thermal expansion coefficient 1.2 x 10 With regard to this doming phenomenon in colour cathoderay tubes, there have been a number of proposals aimed atpromoting dispersal of heat from the center of the shadowmask. For instance, in U.S. Patent No. 2826538 Hunter etal. , it is proposed to facilitate shadow mask heatdispersal by providing a black layer of graphite on theshadow mask surface. Such a graphite layer in the colourcathode ray tube acts as an excellent radiator, lowering theshadow mask temperature. However, such a black graphitelayer has the following drawbacks. The thermal cycle of the heating process involved in the manufacture of the colourcathode ray tube impairs the adhesion of the black layer sothat, when the colour cathode ray tube is subjected tovibration, part of this layer separates and minute flakesfall off. When this happens, flakes adhering to the shadowmask cause blockage of the electron apertures, adverselyaffecting the characteristics of the image on the phosphorscreen. Flakes adhering to the electron gun cause sparksbetween the electrodes, impairing the withstand voltagecharacteristic, and so forth, so that the quality of thecolour cathode ray tube is markedly reduced. It has been proposed in EP A 0139379 to control thedoming phenomenon by thermally bonding a layer of leadborate glass to the shadow mask. The shadow mask is heatedto a temperature which is at least as high as the normaloperating temperature of the mask and the borate glass isapplied to the mask. When the mask cools to roomtemperature, the layer prevents full thermal contraction andthe mask retains residual tensile stress which reducesexpansion of the mask on subsequent rise of temperature. Apigment such as manganese dioxide or cobalt oxide may beadded to the glass. However, since this glass layer, whichis bonded to the surface of the shadow mask, contains agreat deal of lead which has a very high atomic number , itis difficult to reduce the elastic reflection of the electronsimpinging on the shadow mask. Electron scattering causesemission of light from undesired parts of the screen,spoiling image contrast and lowering colour impurity. It has been proposed in US 3878428 for a colour cathode ray tube to have a shadow mask with an array of aperturestherein. At least one of the major surfaces of the shadowmask and the inner surface of the phosphor screen havesurface means for effecting faster radiative heat transferfrom the central portion of the mask than from peripheralportions of the mask. In one embodiment the screen side ofthe mask carries a peripheral coating of aluminium. It is an object of the present invention to provide amethod of making a shadow mask for a colour cathode ray tubewhich mask when produced by this method will improve picture contrast andpurity drift characteristics by decreasing elasticreflection of the electron beams at the shadow mask surface and controlling expansion from shadow mask heat evolutionproduced by the electron beams. According to the presentinvention, a method of manufacturing a shadow mask for acolour cathode ray tube includes the step of spraying asuspension of metal alkoxide compound and a filler on to anapertured metal plate, said metal of the metal alkoxidecompound being selected from the group consisting ofsilicon, titanium, aluminium, zirconium and mixture thereof,and said filler being selected from the group consisting ofmetal, metal oxide, metal carbide, metal nitride and mixturethereof, and subjecting the suspension on the metal plate toheat treatment to convert it to a layer comprising amorphousmetal oxide or hydroxide or a mixture thereof and thefiller. Any desired alkoxide, such as methoxide M OCH In shadow masks produced according to this invention, the rise intemperature of the shadow mask is limited since the thermalradiation coefficient of this layer is high, so heat caneasily escape. Furthermore, electron scattering is reducedbecause the atomic number of the metal contained in thelayer is low. Additionally, this layer increases theresidual emission either by gas adsorption or bysuppresssing gas generation, since it is finely formed onthe shadow mask. In order that the invention may be more readilyunderstood, it will now be described, by way of exampleonly, with reference to the accompanying drawings, inwhich As shown in Fig. 1, the shadow mask type colour cathoderay tube of this embodiment is provided with an evacuatedenvelope consisting of an essentially rectangular panel 1, afunnel 2 and a neck 3. The inside of panel 1 is coated witha phosphor screen 4 formed by a phosphor layer in the formof stripes that emit respectively red, green and blue light.In line electron guns 6 that emit three electron beamscorresponding to red, green and blue are arranged in neck 3in line along the horizontal axis of panel 1. A shadow mask7, wherein a large number of slot shaped apertures arearranged in the vertical direction and a large number ofvertical rows thereby are provided in the horizontaldirection, is fixedly supported by a mask frame 8 at aposition adjacent to and opposite phosphor screen 4. Maskframe 8 is supported within the panel by means of stud pins10 embedded in the inside wall of the vertical edge of panel1 by means of resilient members 9. The three in line electron beams 5 are deflected by adeflecting device 12 provided outside funnel 2 so that theyare scanned over a rectangular area corresponding torectangular panel 1. The colour picture is reproduced bycolour selecting these beams landing on the phosphor stripelayer through the apertures of shadow mask 7. In somecases, the electron beams may not land accurately on thephosphor stripes for which they are intended, due to theeffect of external magnetic fields such as the earth smagnetic field. This spoils the colour purity of thepicture. To prevent this, a magnetic shield 11 of highpermeability, made of high permeability metal sheet, is fastened to the inside of the funnel 2 by means of frame 8. The material of the shadow mask is for example lowcarbon steel sheet of thickness 0.1mm to 0.3mm whose mainconstituent is iron. A photo resist film is obtained onboth sides of this shadow mask by applying and then drying aphoto sensitive liquid consisting of for example alkali milkcaseinate and ammonium bichromate. Next, a negative maskprovided with the prescribed hole pattern is tightly stuckonto this photo resist film and developed by exposure, so asto expose those parts of the metal surface where thethrough holes are to be formed. Then through holes havingthe prescribed aperture shape are formed by spraying etchingliquid comprising ferric chloride onto the exposed metalsurface. This shadow mask blank, in the form of a flatsheet formed with through holes, is mounted in a prescribedouter frame. Its edges are clamped by a blank holder anddie, and its main area, that is provided with the through holes,is formed to the prescribed curved surface by a punchabove and a knockout below. Its peripheral region is thenbent over for example in the axial direction to provide askirt for supporting and holding the main area of the mask.The skirt of the thus formed shadow mask is supported andfixed in a rigid frame of for example L shaped cross section. Next, a film of thickness about 15 µm is applied toone side of the main area of the shadow mask, where thethrough holes are provided, by spraying a suspension of forexample, as in the following Example, an alkoxide of siliconand zirconia, e.g. Si OC Various methods may be used to apply this suspension.The requirements which such methods must satisfy are thatthe suspension must be applied uniformly and the through holesmust not get blocked. Painting the suspension onusing a brush, for example, is undesirable due to the riskof producing a non uniform coating and blocking the holes.In this respect, with the spraying method, if the suspensionis applied with a spraying pressure of about 3kg cm Thus a layer 13 as shown in Fig. 2 can be obtained byheating, in an atmosphere at 70 C or above, a shadow maskcoated, on the surface facing the electron guns, with asuspension of an alkoxide compound of silicon and zirconia,containing zircon as a filler. The alkoxide compound of silicon and zirconia applied to shadow mask 7 undergoeshydrolysis due to the moisture in the air etc. in anatmosphere at 70 C or over, resulting in the formation of afilm by a polycondensation reaction between the alkoxides,forming a zircon containing mixed layer of amorphous siliconand zirconia metal oxides and metal hydroxides. Although inthe above example, the suspension was heated afterapplication, to shorten the manufacturing time, if thesuspension is applied while heating to 70 C or more, thesubsequent heat treatment step can be dispensed with. Also,since the alkoxide compound of silicon and zirconia has agood radiation absorption characteristic in the infra redregion, it has been found that satisfactory film formationcan be achieved even at ordinary temperatures, without usingan atmosphere of over 70 C, by irradiating the surface ofthe shadow mask with for example infra red radiation whilstthe suspension containing the alkoxide compound of siliconand zirconia is being applied. It is also possible toirradiate with infra red radiation after applying thesuspension. Once thus completed shadow mask 7 has been assembledwith the panel, the screen forming step is carried out.First of all, an azide photo resist film is formed on theinside face of the panel, and exposed through through holes7a of shadow mask 7 using an ultra high pressure mercurylamp. After developing the resist film, the graphite isapplied and dried, developed using a decomposing agent, andnarrow light absorbing strips formed at prescribed positionson the inside face of the panel. Next, phosphor particles,in the form for example of a slurry to which phosphor particles for blue have been added, are applied on theinside face of the panel, onto a photoresist film consistingof ammonium dichromate and polyvinyl alcohol. Exposure anddeveloping are then performed as above to form blue emittingphosphor strips. Green emitting and red emittingphosphor strips are then successively formed in the sameway to obtain the screen. When the panel has been completed by the above steps,it is bonded to the funnel using frit glass and, afterexhausting and sealing, the prescribed steps are performedto obtain the colour cathode ray tube. The purity drift characteristics obtained by theinventors for 21 inch colour cathode ray tubes manufacturedas above were as follows. The sample screen picturepatterns used for these experiments are shown in Fig. 3 andFig. 4. The pattern of Fig. 3 is one in which the wholescreen is white, while the pattern of Fig. 4 is one in whichpart of the screen is white. In the Fig. 4 pattern, thereare two white bands 51 of horizontal width 75mm disposed onthe left and right respectively with their centers 140mmfrom the center of the screen, the rest of the screen beingblack i.e. not emitting light. The symbol x indicates themeasurement points. The results of measurement of theamount by which the beams are displaced are shown in Table1. The measurement conditions were Eb 26.5 kV. Ik in thecase of pattern A is 1,500 µA, and in the case ofpattern B is 1,100 µA. The comparative examples in the above Tablewere provided by 21 inch colour cathode ray tubeswherein, by heating at high temperature, lead borateglass was sealed and bonded in about 20 µmthickness to the surface, facing the electron guns, ofshadow masks constructed as proposed in EP A 0139379.The inventors found that the purity characteristic ofcolour cathode ray tubes according to this inventionwas better than that of the prior art colour cathoderay tubes. This was because the thermal emissivity about 0.9 of the zircon containing layer formed onthe shadow mask is much greater than that of the priorart shadow mask, so radiation of heat from the shadowmask is promoted thereby limiting the rise intemperature of the shadow mask. Figure 7 shows theimprovement of the beam displacement characteristic, incomparison with the prior art, for the pattern ofFigure 4, obtained by varying the thickness of theapplied layer. As can be seen from this graph, thepreferred range of thickness is 1 µm to 30 µm.In this embodiment, zircon was used as the filler.However, the essence of this invention is notrestricted to this, and a similar improvement inthermal emissivity and purity drift characteristic canbe obtained by using dark pigments comprising other metal oxides, such as cobaltoxide, chromium oxide, iron oxide, or manganese oxide. Alsocarbides, such as silicon carbide, boron carbide, tungstencarbide etc. can be used as fillers with the same effect.No doubt this is because the thermal conductivity of thesecarbides is greater than that of the mild steel sheet,facilitating removal of heat generated in the shadow mask.Specifically, the thermal conductivity of the mild steelsheet is 0.11 cal cm.sec C, while that of silicon carbide is1.0 cal cm.sec C, that of boron carbide is 0.65cal cm.sec C, and that of tungsten carbide is 0.7 cal cm.sec C. Also nitrides, such as silicon nitride, boron nitride,or aluminium nitride etc. can be used as fillers with thesame effect. It is believed this is because the volumeresistivity of these nitrides is large 10 In the above embodiment the use of a compound ofsilicon and zirconia for the metal alkoxide compound isdescribed. However, as in the case of the filler, theessence of the invention is not restricted to this, andalkoxide compounds of for example silicon, silicon andtitanium, silicon and aluminium, titanium and zirconium etc.can be used. Next, for purposes of comparison, the contrastcharacteristic of a colour cathode ray tube manufactured with a shadow mask according to Japanese Patent ApplicationNo. 58 148843 referred to above but otherwise similarly tothe colour cathode ray tube of this invention describedabove was obtained. For the purposes of the test, thepicture pattern shown in Fig. 5 was reproduced. A whiteportion 31 of dimensions 300mm x 100mm was disposed in themiddle of the top of this screen 30, the remainder 32 beingblack. The measurement points, referred to as nf1 and nf2,are indicated by the symbol x and are located respectively30mm and 60mm below the center of the screen. The luminanceat these points nf1 and rf2 is shown in Table 2. Themeasurement conditions were that the anode voltage Eb of thecolour cathode ray tube was 26.5 kV, the total cathodecurrent Ik was 500 µA, and the colour of the whitecolour was 9,300K 27MPCD. It can be seen from Table 2 that the luminance of thedark portion is reduced in this embodiment of the invention.This means that the elastic spattering of electrons isdecreased. This is dependent on the atomic numbers of theSi and Zr constituents of coating layer 13 their atomicnumbers are 24 and 40 respectively being lower than theatomic numbers 82 and 56 of the Pb and Ba of the lead borateglass of the comparison product. The residual emission percentage after subjecting acolour cathode ray tube according to this embodiment to a3,000 hours continuous operation test was then determined.It was found that the residual emission percentage wasindeed improved, being 80 of the initial value. For theprior art product, a residual emission percentage of 70 isstandard. Thus this represents an improvement of betterthan 10 . This is interred to be because of gas adsorptionby the coating layer of this embodiment. The amorphoussilicon oxide SiO Also it is thought that generation of gas is suppressedby the formation of a fine coating layer on the shadow masksurface. It is therefore particularly effective to form thecoating on the surface of the shadow mask facing theelectron guns, since this surface reaches a very hightemperature when the electron beams impinge on it and sotends to generate unstable gases. Of course, formation ofsuch a coating increases the manufacturing process, but, asshown in Fig. 6, if the whole of the shadow mask surface iscovered by coating 13 according to this invention,practically all generation of unstable gases by the shadowmask can of course be suppressed. In the description of this embodiment, the suspensioncontaining an alkoxide compound of zircon and silicon andzirconia was applied to the shadow mask before forming thephosphor screen, and a mixed zircon containing layer ofsilicon and zirconia amorphous metal oxides and metalhydroxides was formed. However, if the presence of thiscoating layer causes a slight adverse photochemical effect in the exposure step when forming the phosphor screen, theformation of this coating can be carried out after formationof the phosphor screen. If the coating of this invention is formed on thesurface of the shadow mask facing electron guns, it is notnecessary to form a conductive coating. By this means, a 5to 10 improvement in the purity drift characteristic can beobtained compared with the case where a conductive coatingis formed. As described above, using a shadow mask produced according to this invention, acolour cathode ray tube can be obtained with improvedcontrast and purity drift characteristics, a better emissionlife characteristic, and which is well adapted for massproduction.