# PURIFIED BOVINE SOMATOMEDIN C

## Abstract
Purification of bovine somatomedin C BSM C by sequential reverse phase chromatography in various systems followed by Sephadex chromatography, high performance liquid chromatography HPLC , fast protein liquid chromatography and further HPLC affords approxi mately a seven million fold purification.

## Claims
1. Bovine somatomedin C characterized by exhibit ing a single peak in each of HPLC systems I and II said system I comprising C 18 silica, A buffer of water, 10 mM sodium phosphate, pH 7.1, B buffer of 60 acetonitrile, sodium phosphate, pH 7.1, and said system II comprising C 18 silica, A buffer of water, 0.1 TFA, B buffer of acetonitrile, 0.08 TFA.

## Description
This invention relates to the peptide growth promoter bovine somatomedin C BSM C . More particu larly it relates to a process for purifying BSM C and to the purified BSM C thus obtained. The somatomedins are a group of related peptide growth promoters with mitogenic properties and insulin like effects which mediate the action of growth hormone on its target tissues. They cause increased protein and DNA synthesis in metabolically active tissues and increased incorporation of sulfate into chondroitin sulfate, especially in cartilage and skeletal tissues. Salmon Several somatomedins, all closely related chemi cally and biologically and having molecular weights of about 7,500 daltons, have been isolated from serum from different sources. SM A, first isolated by Fryklund A further growth promoting substance referred to as multiplication stimulating activity MSA was isolated by Pierson Van Wyk Liberti, Biochem. Biophys. Res. Commun. The site of biosynthesis of the somatomedins, including BSM C, is not known with certainty. They may, in fact, be made by all tissues. Somatomedin C in circulating plasma is at a higher concentration than can be extracted from any organ tested. The potential value of BSM C as a growth promotant in the field of animal husbandry renders self evident the need for an adequate supply thereof. This, in turn, renders axiomatic the need for a means of obtain ing BSM C in sufficient purity and amount to permit its use for the purpose of growth stimulation in animals particularly in the beef industry. This invention provides a method for the isolation in a highly purified form, hence purification, of BSM C from bovine serum and or bovine plasma. The method comprises centrifuging beef blood to remove whole blood cells, ultrafiltration of the plasma through a hollow fiber filter, concentration of the filtrate followed by isoelectric precipitation of proteins from the concen trate and sequential C 18 reverse phase chromatography of the supernatant under varying conditions. Further purification was achieved by gel chromatography on Sephadex G 50 followed by high performance liquid chromatography HPLC , fast protein liquid chroma tography FPLC and further HPLC. Bovine blood 200 l. obtained from a local slaughter house was made 10 mM in ethylenediamine tetraacetic acid disodium salt to prevent clotting and then centrifuged at 10,000 g for a half hour to separate the whole blood cells. If any clotting is observed, the blood is filtered through a cloth laundry bag prior to centrifuging . The collected plasma was diluted 1 1 with water, made 5 in formic acid, then ultrafiltered on a Amicon DC30 using an H5P50 43 hollow fiber filter 50,000 molecular weight cut off . 600 liters of filtrate were collected using 5 formic acid as the make up. At this point addition of formic acid was halted and an addi tional 100 liters of filtrate were collected. The DC30 was then washed with 0.1N NaOH and rinsed with water to remove all, remaining protein. The 50,000 MW filtrate was then concentrated to 21 liters using the DC 30 in conjunction with a H10P3 20 hollow fiber filter. The formic acid solution was adjusted to pH 5.0 with concentrated sodium hydroxide and centrifuged at 6,000 g for 60 minutes to remove the precipitate which formed. The supernatant was then brought to pH 7.1 with concentrated NaOH at which point further precipi tation occurred. The precipitate was removed by centrifugation at 6,000 g for 30 minutes. A 5x90 cm C 18 column was prepared using Waters PrepPAK 500 C 18. The column was poured and washed with 8 liters acetonitrile followed by 8 liters 10mM sodium phosphate pH 7.16 . Three column runs were required to process the pH 7.1 supernatant. Purifi cation was achieved by stepping up the acetonitrile concentration in the 10 mM sodium phosphate buffer. BSM C was released from the column at 40 45 aceto nitrile. The BSM C containing fractions from the above column were made 15 in acetonitrile by diluting with water, then made 0.1 in trifluoroacetic acid TFA . The C 18 column was stripped of protein by a 60 acetonitrile, 0.1 TFA wash, then equilibrated in 0.1 TFA. Material was loaded on the column until BSM C activity was detected in the flow through at which point 3.5 liters of 20 acetonitrile, 0.1 TFA was applied to the column followed by 5 liters of 24 acetonitrile, and 6 liters each of 30 acetonitrile, 40 acetonitrile all 0.1 TFA. The column was then stripped of protein with 60 acetonitrile, 0.1 TFA. BSM C activity was found in the 20 and 24 aceto nitrile fractions. The remainder of the C 18 phosphate material was loaded and the column washed and eluted as above. At this point BSM C activity was found only in the 24 acetonitrile fraction. The above column was stripped of protein by a 60 acetonitrile, 0.1 TFA wash then equilibrated in 0.5 heptafluorobutyric acid HFBA , pH 2.0. The pooled eluate from the TFA column was diluted 1 1 with water, made 0.5 in HFBA, pH 2.0, and applied to the C 18 column. The reverse phase column was then eluted with 4 liters each 20 , 25 , 30 , 34 , 38 , 42 , 50 acetonitrile with each 0.5 HFBA, pH 2.0. BSM C was eluted with 34 acetonitrile, 0.5 HFBA, pH 2.0. A 5x30 cm C 18 column was prepared using Waters PrepPAK 500 C 18. 4 liters of acetonitrile were pumped through the column followed by 4 liters of 10 mM sodium phosphate, pH 7.16. The BSM C containing fraction from the HFBA column was diluted with water to 15 aceto nitrile and adjusted to pH 7.1 with concentrated sodium hydroxide. This material was applied to the column and was eluted with an acetonitrile step gradient kept 10 mM in sodium phosphate, pH 7.16. All BSM C activity was found in the 30 acetonitrile, 10 mM phosphate fraction. A 5x150 cm column was poured using Sephadex G 50 120 equilibrated in 2 formic acid, 0.02 Brij 35. The 30 acetonitrile, 10mM sodium phosphate fraction was concentrated to 470 ml by lyophilization and then to 55 ml by ultrafiltration in an Amicon concentrator fitted with a 62 mm YM2 disc membrane 2,000 MW cut off . This material was applied to the G 50 column and eluted with 2 formic acid containing 0.02 Brij 35 at a flow rate of 1 ml min. 20 ml fractions 160 were collected and assayed for BSM C. Those exhibiting activity were pooled and concentrated to 34 ml by the Amicon system described above. a a polyethylene glycol alcohol ether available from Imperial Chemical Industries, Ltd., Macclesfield, Cheshire, England. A Beckman model 420 HPLC system was fitted with a 3.9x40 mm guard column containing Waters uBONDAPAK C 18 and a 7.8 mm x 30 cm uBONDAPAK C 18, 10 micron prepar ative column. A buffer was 0.1 TFA in Baker HPLC grade water and B buffer was 0.08 TFA in Baker HPLC grade acetonitrile. The column was equilibrated with repeated gradients from 100 A to 100 B . Prior to injection the column was brought to 15 B and held there until a stable baseline was achieved. The flow rate was maintained at 5 ml min. Finally, outflow from the first round of HPLC injections was monitored at 280 nm. The concentrated protein solution obtained from the G 50 sizing column was mixed with 6x10E6 counts of 125 When the protein was completely loaded, the column was eluted by an acetonitrile linear gradient. 1 ml fractions were collected in siliconized glass tubes. The gradient was stabilized at 15 B for 4 minutes following loading, then increased to 21 B over 6 minutes where it was held for 28 minutes. A linear gradient to 36 B was run over a 40 minute period. The column was then washed via a 2 minute gradient to 60 B , held for 2 minutes and returned to 15 B , again over a 2 minute interval. 100 ul of each 5 ml fraction was counted to locate the radio active tracer. Six such injections were necessary to process the G 50 material. BSM C was found to elute at 27 28 B in each run. These fractions were roto vapped to approximately 2 ml each, pooled and brought to 2.7 ml using an Amicon concentrator fitted with a YM2 ultrafiltration membrane. Two 1.35 ml injections were made onto the preparative C 18 column equilibrated with 15 B described above. The effluent was monitored at 214 nm. After injection, the acetonitrile concentration was maintained at 15 for 4 minutes, increased to 21 B over 6 minutes, held at 21 B for 2 minutes, and finally increased to 32 B over 66 minutes. Once again the flow rate was held at 5 ml min and 1 ml fractions collected. 100 ul of each fraction was counted and the BSM C found in the 25 26 B fractions. A total of 8 fractions from the two injections were rotovapped to dryness and brought back up in 8x1 ml 1 formic acid 4 ml for each injection . The two pooled effluents were then rotovapped to dryness and brought up in 2 ml each 50 mM potassium phosphate, pH 6.0 in preparation for the FPLC step. A Pharmacia MonoS HR 5 5 cation exchange column was used in conjunction with the Beckman HPLC system described above. A flow rate of 1 ml min was main tained at all times and the effluent again monitored at 214 nm. A buffer was 50 mM potassium phosphate, pH 6.0 while B buffer was 500 mM potassium phosphate, pH 6.0 both prepared with Baker HPLC grade water. Two 2 ml injections of the material from the second round of HPLC injections were made. 100 A buffer was run until no protein was detected in the flow through 21 ml . The remaining protein was eluted via a linear gradient from 100 A to 100 B over 25 minutes. All BSM C activity was found in the flow through. A 3.9 mm x 30 cm. Waters C 18 uBONDAPAK analytical reverse phase column was used in conjunction with the previously described Beckman HPLC system. A buffer was Baker HPLC water, 10 mM sodium phosphate, pH 7.1 while B buffer was 60 Baker acetonitrile, 10 mM sodium phosphate, pH 7.1 The effluent was monitored at 214 nm and the flow rate held constant at 2 ml min. The column was equilibrated in 100 A and 23 ml of material from the FPLC step loaded on the C 18 column in two runs six injections of 2.25 ml for each. The concentration of B was increased linearly to 40 over a 5 minute period and then to 55 over an additional 30 minutes. BSM C activity was found to elute at 50 B . These fractions were rotovapped to dryness and redissolved in 2.25 ml of 0.1 TFA. 2.0 ml of this material was loaded onto the Waters analytical column. A buffer was Baker HPLC water, 0.1 TFA and B buffer was Baker HPLC aceto nitrile, 0.08 TFA. The column was eluted via linear gradient 2 ml min to 60 B over a 60 minute inter val. The effluent was again monitored at 214 nm. Under these conditions BSM C was found to elute at 35 B . 35 Units of BSM C were iodinated using the chlor amine T method. The BSM C was added to 2uCi 125 This material was then loaded onto a 0.6 cm x 35 cm G 25 column equilibrated in phosphate buffered saline PBS 100 mM K₂HPO₄, 1.5 M NaCl, pH 7.1 con taining 2 mg ml. ovalbumin. 20 drop fractions were collected and 2 ul of each fraction counted. Those fractions containing radioactivity were pooled, and 50 ul aliquots frozen for later use. Somatomedin C concentration was determined via the Somatomedin C Radioimmunoassay Kit available from Nichols Institute Diagnostics in San Juan Capistrano, California. Dilutions were made with the reagent buffer provided with the kit. Due to low protein concentrations after the first HPLC step, dilutions thereafter were made with 1 ovalbumin in PBS. Protein concentration for all but the latter HPLC steps I and II were determined by the dye binding method of Bradford Bradford, M. M., 1976 Anal. Biochem., 72, 248 254 . Due to the low level of protein present, the protein content of the HPLC purified material described above was determined by a ninhydrin microassay. In this assay samples, as well as a standard curve 0.5 g to 10.0 g bovine serum albumin , are hydrolyzed in 6N HCl for 22 hours at 100 C. in evacuated and sealed glass ampules which have been flushed with nitrogen. After the hydrolysis, the ampules are allowed to cool, cracked, and the hydrolysates rotovapped to dryness. A stock solution made weekly is prepared by mixing 50 mg ninhydrin, 7.5 mg hydrindantin and 1.9 ml ethylene glycol monomethyl ether. This solution is stored at 4 C. in an amber bottle. A working solution, prepared immediately before the assay, is made by adding 0.8 ml of the stock solution to 1.0 ml 4M sodium acetate, pH 5.5, and 1.2 ml distilled water. 150 ul of distilled water is added to each ampule followed by 150 ul of the working solution. The ampules are vortexed vigorously and incubated at 100 C. for 5 minutes after which time 0.5 ml of a 50 ethanol solution is added to each ampule. 15 minutes later the absorbance at 570 nm is recorded for each and a standard curve plotted. 1800 Units of purified BSM C with a specific activity of 11,600 units BSMC mg protein were thus obtained from 200 liters of bovine blood. The material exhibited a single peak when subjected to HPLC in each of the following systems, showing it to be homogeneously pure and free of other proteins of bovine origin The purified BSM C can be formulated according to known methods to prepare compositions of value for veterinary use. The purified BSM C is admixed with a suitable carrier or carriers to provide compositions having a growth promoting amount of BSM C for veteri nary use. Suitable carriers are well known in the art and include both solid and liquid substances to afford compositions for parenteral administration. Solid formulations, of course, are for extemporaneous prepa ration of solutions prior to administration. Suitable carriers are water, isotonic saline, isotonic dextrose, Ringer s solution, fatty oils of vegetable origin such as corn, sesame or peanut oil, and other non aqueous carriers which will not interfere with the efficacy of the preparation and are non toxic in the amount used glycerol, sorbitol, propylene glycol . For parenteral use dosages of from about 2.5x10