# PROCESS AND INTERMEDIATES FOR BETA LACTAM ANTIBIOTICS

## Claims
Cis enantiomer der Formel X

## Description
This invention relates to a process for the preparation of 1 carba 1 dethia 3 cephem 4 carboxylic acids and derivatives thereof, and to certain novel intermediates of value in that process. In particular, it relates to a chiral process for the preparation of 1 carba 1 dethia 3 cephem 4 carboxylic acids from 1 substituted 3β 4 S aryloxazolidin 2 one 3 yl 4β styryl or substituted styryl azetidin 2 one intermediates and 4 substituted 3β 4 S aryloxazolidin 2 one 3 yl azetidin 2 one compounds. The invention provides novel chiral 1 carba 1 dethia 3 cephem 4 carboxylic acids and derivatives thereof, and novel chiral intermediates therefor. Certain racemic compounds of this type are disclosed in Tetrahedron Letters, vol. 24, no. 44, 1983, pages 4837 4838, and related carbadethia cephem carboxylic acids are disclosed in US Patent 4,174,316. The 1 carba 1 dethia 3 cephem 4 carboxylic acids, hereinafter 1 carbacephalosporins, possess the 4,6 bicyclic ring system represented by the following structural formula The preparation of 1 carba 3 cephem 4 carboxylic acids having antibiotic activity is taught in EP14476. The 1 carbacephalosporins thus far have not been obtained from natural sources, for example, as microbial metabolites. Accordingly, methods for the total synthesis of these promising compounds are highly desirable, particularly methods which are adaptable to large scale manufacture. 1 Substituted 3β 4 S aryloxazolidin 2 one 3 yl 4β 2 arylvinyl azetidin 2 ones are prepared via cycloaddition of a 4 S aryloxazolidin 2 one 3 ylacetyl halide with an imine formed with a benzylamine and a 3 arylacrolein, Other 1 substituted 3β 4 S aryloxazolidin 2 one 3 yl 4β substituted azetidin 2 ones are useful intermediates to monocyclic β lactam antibiotics such as the monobactam acids. The 3β 4 S aryloxazolidin 2 one 3 yl azetidin 2 one intermediates are represented by the formula 1 Preferred azetidinones are represented by the formula 1 wherein Ar and R are phenyl or substituted phenyl, and R is phenyl, substituted phenyl, or furyl. Examples of such preferred compounds are 1 benzyl 3β 4 S phenyloxazolidin 2 one 3 yl 4β styrylazetidin 2 one, 1 benzyl 3β 4 S phenyloxazolidin 2 one 3 yl 4β 3 methoxystyryl azetidin 2 one, and 1 benzyl 3β 4 S phenyloxazolidin 2 one 3 yl 4β 2 2 furyl ethenyl azetidin 2 one. The azetidinones represented by the formula 1 are obtained by the cycloaddition of a 4 S aryloxazol idin 2 one 3 ylacetyl halide and an imine formed with a benzylamine and a 3 arylacrolein. The acid halide is converted The 4 S aryloxazolidin 2 one 3 ylacetyl halide employed in the cyclization is obtained with an L arylglycine represented by the formula 1a In the above scheme alk refers to C₁ C₄ alkyl, In carrying out the preparation of the 4 aryl oxazolidinone 4a the L arylglycine is first converted to the carbamate 2a. The arylglycine is dissolved in aqueous base by utilizing only the amount of base needed to form the soluble salt plus a small excess. The solution is cooled to a temperature between about 0 C and about 10 C and non stoichiometric amounts of the haloformate are added in several portions with stirring. Additional base is added to redissolve the arylglycine and additional haloformate is added portionwise with stirring. This process is repeated in the cold until an excess of the stoichiometric amount of haloformate has been added and carbamate formation is completed. The reaction is preferably carried out as rapidly as possible. Bases such as the alkali metal hydroxides, The L carbamate 2a is reduced with excess borane dimethylsulfide in tetrahydrofuran at a temperature between about 20 C and about 40 C to provide the L alcohol 3a. The borane dimethylsulfide reagent is added to a solution of the carbamate acid in tetrahydrofuran cooled to about 0 C and the mixture is stirred at the temperature range, conveniently at room temperature, for about 10 hours to 20 hours. The excess borane is destroyed by quenching the mixture with water and 3a is recovered by concentrating the mixture by evaporation, diluting the concentrate with more water if necessary, and extracting 3a with a water immiscible solvent such as methylene chloride. The recovered 3a is of sufficient purity to use directly in the cyclization to 4a, however, it may be further purified prior to use by recrystallization. The L alcohol 3a is then cyclized to the S 4 aryloxazolidin 2 one 4a in an inert solvent with n butyllithium or an alkali metal alkoxide such as lithium or sodium ethoxide. n Butyllithium is the preferred base and is generally used in less than the stoichiometric amount. The reaction is carried out for from 2 to 8 hours at a temperature between about 25 C and about 65 C and preferably at about 55 C. Suitable inert solvents are tetrahydrofuran, 1,2 dimethoxyethane and like ethers. After completion of the cyclization, the reaction mixture is treated with acetic acid in an amount corresponding to the amount of base used, and is concentrated. The oxazolidin 2 one 4a is recovered from the concentrate by extraction with a suitable organic solvent such as methylene chloride, chloroform, or trichloroethane The S 4 aryloxazolidin 2 one 4a is N alkylated with a haloacetic acid ester, the ester deesterified, and the acid converted to the acyl halide 5a. The alkylation of 4a with the haloacetic acid ester is carried out in dimethylformamide or tetrahydrofuran with sodium hydride to provide the S 4 aryloxazolidin 2 one 3 ylacetic acid ester. The haloacetic acid ester is represented by the formula X CH₂COOalk in the foregoing reaction scheme, wherein X is chloro or bromo and alk is C₁ C₄ alkyl. Preferably, alk is t butyl or ethyl. Examples of haloacetic acid esters are t butyl bromoacetate, ethyl bromoacetate, methyl chloroacetate, t butyl chloroacetate, methyl bromoacetate, isopropyl bromoacetate, and like esters. Preferred halo esters are t butyl bromoacetate and ethyl bromoacetate. The deesterification of the oxazolidinone acetic acid ester is achieved by standard deesterification procedures. For example, the t butyl ester group is removed upon treatment of the ester with trifluoroacetic acid while other lower alkyl esters such as the ethyl ester can be saponified. The oxazolidinone acetic acid is converted to the acid halide 5a, X halogen , preferably the acid chloride, the anhydride formed with trifluoroacetic acid X OCOCF₃ , or with a phosphoryl halide X O P O X₂ . The acid halide, preferably the chloride, is a preferred source of the ketene for use in the subsequent cycloaddition reaction. The acid chloride is obtained for example with oxalyl chloride in an inert solvent such as benzene, toluene, or xylene. Other conventional acid halide forming reagents may be used. The S 4 aryloxazolidin 2 one 3 ylacetyl halide or anhydride is the functionalized form of the chiral auxiliary moiety used to form the β lactam ring of the azetidinone intermediates represented by the formula 1. The acetyl halide 5a is allowed to react with the imine formed with a benzylamine and a 3 arylacrolein to form the 1 benzyl 3β S 4 aryloxazolidin 2 one 3 yl 4β 2 arylvinyl azetidinone formula 1, Y CH CH . A minor amount of isomeric cycloaddition product is also formed. The cycloaddition reaction is illustrated in the following reaction scheme The reaction can be carried out at a temperature between about 78 C and about 25 C in an inert organic solvent, such as methylene chloride, chloroform, toluene, or a di or trichloroethane in the presence of a tri C₁ C₄ alkyl amine. The reaction can be accomplished by adding a solution of the imine 6a to a solution of 5a in an inert solvent containing the tri C₁ C₄ alkyl amine in an amount in excess of the stoichiometric amount. The tri C₁ C₄ alkyl amine should be added to the solution of 5a prior to addition of the imine 6a. The acid derivative 5a and the amine are preferably mixed at a temperature between about 80 C and about 50 C to form The imine 6a employed in the cycloaddition is obtained by condensing a 3 arylacrolein with benzylamine or a substituted benzylamine in a suitable solvent. The water produced during the reaction is removed either by using a drying agent or by azeotropic distillation. A small excess over the stoichimetric amount of the acrolein is preferably used. Drying agents such as magnesium sulfate or molecular sieves are suitable. Organic solvents such as diethyl ether or an aromatic hydrocarbon such as benzene or toluene can be employed. The condensation to form the imine proceeds rapidly at a temperature between about 25 C and 65 C in the presence of a drying agent or during azeotropic removal of water. Examples of 3 arylacroleins which can be used are represented by the formula Examples of benzylamines useful in the imine formation are benzylamine and the C₁ C₄ alkyl, C₁ C₄ alkoxy, and halo substituted benzylamines such as 4 methylbenzylamine, 3 chlorobenzylamine, 3,4 dichlorobenzylamine, 4 methoxybenzylamine, 2 bromobenzylamine, 3 ethylbenzylamine, 3,4 dimethylbenzylamine, 2,4 dimethylbenzylamine, 4 chloro 3 methylbenzylamine, 4 isopropylbenzylamine, 4 t butylbenzylamine, and the like. The imine 6a can be employed in the cycloaddition reaction without prior isolation. For example, the reaction mixture in which the imine is prepared may be used directly in the cycloaddition to form 1. The azetidinone represented by the formula 1, wherein Y is CH CH and R is a m alkoxyphenyl group, is a valuable intermediate in a process provided by this invention for the asymmetric preparation of 1 carbacephalosporins. In particular the process comprises the preparation of 1 carba 3 hydroxy 3 cephem 4 carboxylic acid esters. According to the process the S 4 aryloxazolidin 2 one 3 ylacetyl halide 5a is reacted in the cycloaddition reaction described above with the imine 6a , formed with a benzylamine and a m alkoxycinnamaldehyde, to provide the azetidinone represented by the formula 1 wherein Y is CH CH and R is a m C₁ C₄ alkoxyphenyl group. The azetidinone 1 is hydrogenated to the corresponding 4β 2 m alkoxyphenyl ethyl azetidinone, and the latter is reduced with lithium ammonia in the presence of t butyl alcohol to effect reduction of the phenyl ring, removal of the chiral auxiliary and the 1 benzyl group to provide a 3β amino 4β 2 5 alkoxycyclohex l,4 dienyl ethyl azetidinone. The 3 amino group of the azetidinone is protected with a conventional amino protecting group and the 3β protected aminoazetidinone is subjected to ozonolysis to yield the β keto ester C₁ C₄ alkyl 5 3β protected amino azetidin 2 one 4β yl 3 oxopentanoate. The β keto ester ozonolysis product is converted to the α diazo derivative and the diazo derivative is cyclized with Rhodium II to provide the 3 hydroxy 1 carbacephalosporin ester. One specific embodiment of the process is illustrated in the following reaction scheme, where alk represents C₁ C₄ alkyl. It will be appreciated with reference to the foregoing reaction scheme that the imine 6a is structurally selective in the process. The m alkoxyphenyl group of the imine ultimately provides the alkyl β ketoester 9a via ozonolysis of the 5 alkoxycyclohexa l,4 diene 8a which in turn is provided by the lithium in ammonium reduction of 1 wherein Y CH₂ CH₂ . According to this process the azetidinone 1 Y CH₂ CH₂ is hydrogenated over a palladium catalyst such as a supported palladium catalyst, The 4β 2 m alkoxyphenyl ethyl azetidinone is reduced to the 3β amino 4β 2 5 alkoxycyclohex l,4 dienyl ethyl azetidin 2 one 7a with lithium in liquid ammonia containing t butyl alcohol. The reduction is carried out at a temperature between about 30 C and about 90 C and preferably at between about 70 C and about 80 C. The reduction is carried out by dissolving lithium in liquid ammonia and cooling the solution to a range of about 50 C to about 90 C. An excess of t butyl alcohol is added followed by the addition of a solution of the azetidinone in an inert solvent. The solution of the azetidinone may contain t butyl alcohol as a cosolvent. Suitable solvents for the azetidinone include tetrahydrofuran, dimethoxyethane, or like solvent. After the solution of the azetidinone is added, the reduction mixture is stirred for about 30 minutes to about 2 hours. On small laboratory size reactions, the reduction is allowed to stir in the cold for about 30 minutes while with large scale reductions in manufacture somewhat longer reduction time may be required for complete reduction to the diene 7a. The reduction effects the removal of the chiral auxiliary moiety, incorporated via the cycloaddition with 6a, leaving the 3 amino group. The reduction also effects removal of the 1 benzyl or 1 substituted benzyl group. The 3 aminoazetidinone 7a can be isolated from the reduction mixture and used in the next step after amino group protection as shown in the reaction scheme. Alternatively, and preferably in the process context, 7a is acylated in the same reaction vessel to provide the acylated aminoazetidinone 8a. Although the preceding reaction scheme shows only acylation producing an acylamino group of formula R₁CONH , those skilled in the art will immediately appreciate that the 3β amino function of the intermediate of formula 7a can also be protected with a conventional amino protecting group such as t butoxycarbonyl. The intermediates of the formula 7a and 8a type are of formula IV Following the reduction the reaction mixture is treated with sufficient benzene to discharge the blue color of the mixture. Ammonium acetate is added to the mixture and the bulk of the ammonia is distilled off. The solvent and any remaining ammonia are evaporated. The residue 7a is treated with a water miscible organic solvent such as tetrahydrofuran and the mixture or solution is acidified to a pH between about 7 and about 9. The solution of 7a is then treated with an acylating agent to provide the 3β acylamino 4β 2 5 alkoxycyclohex 1,4 dienyl ethyl azetidinone 8a. The 3β amino group is protected to protect its integrity during the subsequent ozonolysis step in the process. The acylating agent may be formed with any carboxylic acid, the acyl residue of which is stable in the subsequent ozonolysis step of the process. The carboxylic acid can be, for example ,an alkylcarboxylic acid such as acetic acid, propionic acid, butyric acid and the like an arylcarboxylic acid such as benzoic acid, napthoic acid, which may be optionally substituted by lower alkyl, lower alkoxy, or halogen or an arylacetic acid such as phenylacetic acid, phenoxyacetic acid, phenylthioacetic acid, and such acids optionally substituted. The desired carboxylic acid for use in the acylation is converted to an active derivative such as the acid chloride, acid anhydride or anhydride formed with a halo formate such as a C₁ C₄ alkyl chloroformate, Preferred acylating agents are represented by the formula Examples of acyl halides represented by the above formula are acetyl chloride, acetyl bromide, butyryl chloride, propionyl chloride, benzoyl chloride, 4 chlorobenzoyl chloride, 4 methylbenzoyl chloride, phenoxyacetyl chloride, 4 chlorophenoxyacetyl chloride, phenylacetyl chloride, 3 ethylphenylacetyl bromide, phenylmercaptoacetyl chloride, 4 chlorophenylmercaptoacetyl chloride, benzyloxycarbonyl chloride, cyclohexyoxycarbonyl chloride, cyclopentyloxycarbonyl chloride, ethoxycarbonyl chloride, and the like. Examples of anhydrides represented by the above formula are benzoic acid anhydride, phenoxyacetic acid anhydride, phenylacetic acid anhydride, p chlorophenoxyacetic acid anhydride, phenylmercaptoacetic acid anhydride, di t butyl dicarbonate, dibenzyl dicarbonate, di p nitrobenzyl dicarbonate, di ethyl dicarbonate, di cyclohexyl dicarbonate, and like anhydrides. The N acylated reduction product 8a is recovered from the mixture by extraction and is purified by chromatography over silica. In an alternative to the above described preferred one pot conversion of 1 Y CH₂CH₂ to 8a, compound 1 is reduced with lithium in liquid ammonia without added t butyl alcohol to provide the 3 aminoazetidinone represented by the formula Preferably the above described alternative reduction with lithium in ammonia is carried out by using only about 3 equivalents of t butyl alcohol rather than an excess. When the reduction is carried out with 3 equivalents of t butyl alcohol over a short reaction time the aromatic phenyl ring remains intact while the chiral auxiliary and N benzyl group are removed. When the reduction is carried out as described above without added t butyl alcohol incomplete removal of the 1 benzyl group and the chiral auxiliary can result. The 3 acylaminoazetidinone 8a, obtained by either route, is then converted to the β keto ester 9a by ozonolysis. The ozonolysis is preferably carried out in 50 methyl alcohol in dichloromethane or other suitable solvent mixture, at a temperature between about 5 C and about 80 C. The ozone is passed into the solution of the diene 8a until the reaction is complete. The ozone is most conveniently obtained from a conventional ozone generator in a stream of air. The completion of the ozonolysis may be determined by the use of a diene indicator such as solvent red Sudan III, Aldrich Chemical Company . Following completion any ozonide and excess ozone is destroyed in the cold with dimethyl sulfide or other suitable reducing agent such as a sulfite or phosphite and the product 9a is recovered from the mixture. For example, the reaction mixture is allowed to warm to room temperature, is poured into brine and the product is extracted with a water immiscible solvent such as methylene chloride. The β keto ester 9a may be further purified by chromatography over silica. The β keto ester 9a is then converted to the 7 acylamino 1 carba 1 dethia 3 hydroxy 3 cephem ester 11a via diazo compound 10a, and cyclization of the diazo ester to the 1 carbacephalosporin with Rhodium II . The β keto ester 9a is best converted to the diazo ester 10a in an inert solvent such as acetonitrile, dichloromethane, trichloroethane, or the like, with p toluenesulfonyl azide tosyl azide in the presence of a hindered tertiary amine, The ester moiety alk of 10a becomes the ester group of the 1 carbacephalosporin 11a upon cyclization as shown in the reaction scheme. Ester groups such as the lower n alkyl groups, The process is carried out by mixing an excess of the alcohol, R₂OH, with titanium tetraisopropoxide and removing isopropyl alcohol by evaporation. The diazo ester, 10a, is added to the solution of the Ti OR₂ ₄ in excess alcohol, and an inert solvent if necessary, and the solution is maintained at a temperature between about 25 C and about 45 C until transesterification is complete. Inert solvents which may be used are, for example, methylene chloride, di or trichlorethane, chloroform, acetonitrile, tetrahydrofuran, or dioxane. When benzyl alcohol is used in the process to form the R₂ ester group it also may serve as a solvent for the process. Once again, although the 3β amino function of the intermediates of formula 9a, 10a and 10b is shown as being protected by a group of formula R₁CO, those skilled in the art will appreciate that other conventional amino protecting groups such as The diazo ester 10a or the diazo ester 10b obtained via the transesterification process can then be cyclized to a 1 carbacephalosporin of the 11a type or the R₂ derivative with a rhodium II salt, preferably the acetate, conveniently in chloroform at the reflux temperature. The reaction can be accomplished by heating for about 15 minutes to about one hour. Typical reaction temperature may vary from 0 to I00 C. The 7 acylamino 3 hydroxy 1 carba 1 dethia 3 cephem carboxylic acid ester can be recovered as such from the reaction mixture or may be converted to a derivative which is then isolated. Again, the reaction schedule depicts only the preparation of 3 hydroxycarbacephem derivatives in which the 7 amino group is substituted by R₂CO, obviously, the 7 amino group can be protected by other conventional amino protecting groups. The 3 hydroxy 1 carbacephalosporin ester may be recovered from the reaction mixture by first diluting the mixture with water or brine, acidifying the mixture, and then extracting the mixture with a solvent such as ethyl acetate or methylene chloride. The extract is washed, dried and evaporated to provide the product. The product may be further purified by chromatography and recrystallization. The There is also provided a process for preparing a compound of Formula X which comprises The chiral form of the type depicted as 11a above is of particular value since it is this enantiomer, and this enantiomer alone, which can be converted to the pharmacologically useful antibiotics of the type described in EP14476 see also U.S. Patent Application Serial No. 761,647 and copending European Patent Application No. 86 305 425.0 filed this even date. In a preferred embodiment of the process L phenylglycine 1a, Ar phenyl is converted to the ethylcarbamate with ethyl chloroformate, the carbamate acid is reduced with borane dimethyl sulfide to L 1 ethoxycarbonylamino 1 phenylethanol 3a, alk ethyl , and the phenylethanol is cyclized with n butyllithium to S 4 phenyloxazolidin 2 one 4a. The latter is converted to 5a via alkylation with ethyl bromoacetate, saponification, and treatment of the acid with oxalyl chloride. The S 4 phenyloxazolidin 2 one 3 ylacetyl chloride is condensed with the imine formed with benzylamine and m methoxycinnamaldehyde form 6a, alk methyl, R phenyl to form the azetidinone 1, Ar phenyl, alk methyl . Catalytic reduction of 1 over 5 Pd C provides 1, Y CH₂ CH₂ which on reduction in lithium in liquid ammonia and t butyl alcohol yields the 3 aminoazetidinone 7a, alk methyl . without isolation, the 3 aminoazetidinone is acylated with di t butyl dicarbonate to form the 3 t butyloxycarbonylaminoazetidinone 8a, R₁ t butyloxy, alk methyl . Ozonolysis of the 3 t BOC amino protected diene product in 50 methyl alcohol in dichloromethane provides the β keto methyl ester 9a. The β keto methyl ester is reacted in acetonitrile with tosyl azide in the presence of diisopropylethylamine to provide the diazo methyl ester 10a, R₁ t butyloxy, alk methyl . The transesterification of the diazo methyl ester to the corresponding benzyl ester is carried out in excess benzyl alcohol with titanium tetra isopropoxide with heating at about 36 C for 42 hours. The diazo benzyl ester is treated in refluxing chloroform with rhodium II acetate to provide benzyl 7β t butyloxycarbonylamino 3 hydroxy 1 carba 1 dethia 3 cephem 4 carboxylate. In another embodiment of the process L phenylglycine is converted to 3β 4 S phenyloxazolidin 2 one 3 yl 4β 2 m methoxyphenyl ethyl 1 benzylazetidin 2 one, the latter reduced with lithium in liquid ammonia and t butyl alcohol and the reduction product, 3β amino 4β 2 5 methoxycyclohex 1,4 diene ethyl azetidin 2 one 7a, alk methyl without isolation is acylated with phenoxyacetic acid anhydride. The 3β phenoxyacetylaminoazetidinone is then converted, as described above for the t BOC amino protected azetidinone, to benzyl 7β phenoxyacetylamino 3 hydroxy 1 carba 1 dethia 3 cephem 4 carboxylate. The azetidinone represented by the formula 1, wherein Y is CH CH and R is furyl, also is useful as an intermediate in the preparation of 1 carbacephalosporins. Accordingly, this intermediate is hydrogenated in a suitable solvent to the corresponding 3β 2 furylethyl azetidinone formula 1, Y CH₂ CH₂ , R furyl over 5 palladium on carbon. The hydrogenation product is converted to the 1 carbacephalosporin as shown in the following scheme The hydrogenation product is first reduced with lithium in ammonia in the presence of about 3 molar equivalents of t butyl alcohol to provide the 3β aminoazetidinone 12, and the amino group is protected with a conventional protecting group such as the t butoxycarbonyl group to yield l3. N Alkylation of 13 with a reagent of formula X CH₂COOR₂ preferably an alkyl haloacetate, The compound of formula 16 is novel and is provided in a further aspect of the invention. The 3 hydroxy 1 carbacephalosporin ester 17 can be treated to remove the amino protecting group to provide the nucleus ester 7β amino 3 hydroxy 1 carba 1 dethia 3 cephem 4 carboxylic acid ester. The latter can be acylated with the desired carboxylic acid derivative, The 3 hydroxy 1 carbacephalosporins of formula 11a and 17 can also be converted to the corresponding 3 halo derivatives by the process of U.S. Patent Application Serial No. 761,647 copending European Patent Application No. 86 305 425.0 . The azetidinones represented by the formula 1, wherein Y is CH CH , also are useful intermediates in the preparation of the monocyclic β lactam antibiotic, 3β 2 2 aminothiazol 4 yl 2 carboxymethoxyimino acetamido 3β carbamoyloxymethylazetidin 2 one 1 sulfate, described by U.S. Patent No. 4,502,994. The azetidinone is subjected to ozonolysis to form the 4β formylazetidinone as shown below In the above formulae Ar, R and R have the same meanings as defined for formula I. The 3β hydroxymethyl compound is reduced with lithium in liquid ammonia containing about 3 equivalents of t butyl alcohol to yield the 3β amino 4β hydroxymethylazetidin 2 one represented by the formula The hydroxy protecting acyl group is removed by basic hydrolysis and the product reacted with an isocyanate to provide the compound represented by the formula The 4β formylazetidinone of the above formula also may be converted to the correpsonding 4β carboxyazetidinone by oxidation, The epimeric 4 hydroxymethylazetidinones may be converted individually to the 4 halomethyl azetidinone, The 4 methylazetidinones thus obtained can be subjected to lithium in ammonia reduction with t butyl alcohol to remove the chiral auxillary and the 1 benzyl group to provide the 3β amino 4 methylazetidinone. The latter is converted by known methods to the monocyclic antibiotic, monobactam, represented by the formula In a further aspect of this invention there is provided substituted azetidinones represented by the formula A preferred group of substituted azetidinones are represented when Ar is phenyl or substituted phenyl, R is phenyl , and R₄ is formyl or hydroxymethyl. A preferred compound is 1 benzyl 3β S 4 phenyloxazolidin 2 one 3 yl 4β hydroxymethylazetidin 2 one. Another preferred compound is 1 benzyl 3β S 4 phenyloxazolidin 2 one 3 yl 4β formylazetidin 2 one. The intermediates useful in the asymmetric synthesis of the azetidinones of formula 1 described above are also part of the invention. The 4 S aryloxazolidin 2 one 3 ylacetic acids, esters, and halides represented by the formula 5a are useful in the process as chiral auxiliary forming moieties upon cyclization with the imine 6a to form the azetidinone 1. The chiral auxiliary functions in the process to direct the synthesis of 1 to the desired stereo configuration. These acyl halides, anhydrides, and the ester and acid precursors thereof are represented by the formula Examples of the above intermediates are 4 S phenyloxazolidin 2 one 3 ylacetic acid, 4 S 4 chlorophenyl oxazolidin 2 one 3 ylacetic acid, 4 S 4 methylphenyl oxazolidin 2 one 3yl acetic acid, 4 S 3 methoxyphenyl oxazolidin 2 one 3yl acetic acid, 4 S 2 naphthyl oxazolidin 2 one 3yl acetic acid, 4 S 2 thienyl oxazolidin 2 one 3yl acetic acid, 4 S benzothien 2 yl oxazolidin 2 one 3yl acetic acid, and the G₁ C₄ alkyl esters, the acyl chloride and bromide, and the trifluoroacetic acid and phosphoryl halide derivatives thereof. Preferred compounds are represented when Ar is phenyl or substituted phenyl, and R₃ is t butyl or chloro. Especially preferred compounds are 4 S phenyloxazolidin 2 one 3 ylacetic acid, the ethyl and t butyl esters and the acid chloride thereof. The 5 alkoxycyclohex 1,4 dienyl substituted azetidinones formulae 7a and 8a are also novel intermediates and are represented by the following formula Examples of R₁CO acyl groups when R₁ is an alkoxy, cycloalkoxy or benzyloxy group are ethoxycarbonyl, t butyloxycarbonyl, cyclopentyloxycarbonyl, cyclohexyoxycarbonyl, benzyloxycarbonyl, and p nitrobenzyloxycarbonyl, and the like. Examples of R₁CO acyl groups when R₁ formula 8a is other than R₁ are phenylacetyl, phenoxyacetyl, phenylmercaptoacetyl, benzoyl, p chlorobenzoyl, 2,6 dimethoxybenzoyl, 4 chlorophenylmercaptoacetyl, 3,4 dimethylphenylacetyl, 4 methoxyphenylacetyl, and 3 chlorophenoxyacetyl. The 3β aminoazetidinones of the above formula, wherein R₅ is amino, can form salts with suitable inorganic and organic acids. Examples of such acids are hydrochloric acid, hydrobromic, sulfuric acid and phosphoric acid, and the alkyl and aryl sulfonic acids such as a C₁ C₄ alkylsulfonic acid, The following Examples are provided to further illustrate the invention. In the Examples compound numbers refer to the numbered compounds in the reaction schemes. To a stirred, 0 C solution of L phenylglycine 25.3 g, 167.4 mmol in 60 mL of 3N aqueous NaOH was added ethyl chloroformate 8 mL in several portions. Additional 3N aqueous NaOH 35 mL was added to redissolve the precipitated phenylglycine, followed by ethyl chloroformate 4 mL . This process was continued with 3N aqueous NaOH 65 mL and ethyl chloroformate 8 mL, total of 20 mL, 209 mmol over a period of ca. 10 minutes. After stirring for 1 hour at 0 C the solution was acidified with 6 Anal. Calcd for C₉H₉NO₂ C, 66.24 H, 5.56. Found C, 66.16 H, 5.62. To a stirred, 0 C solution of Anal. Calcd for C₁₁H₁₁NO₄ C, 59.72 H, 5.01. Found C, 59.83 H, 5.00. Major isomer, the title compound mp 142 143 C α Anal. Calcd for C₂₈H₂₆N₂O₄ C, 73.99 H, 5.77. Found C, 74.06 H, 5.74. By using the method described in Example 1, the imine prepared from benzylamine and cinnamaldehyde, and 4 S phenyloxazolidin 2 one 3 ylacetyl chloride there was prepared 1 benzyl 3β 4 S phenyloxazolidine 2 one 3 yl 4β styrylazetidine 2 one mp 186.5 187.5 C α Anal. Calcd. for C₂₇H₂₄N₂O₃ C, 76.39 H, 5.70. Found C, 76.53 H, 5.69. By using the method described in Example 1, the imine prepared from benzylamine and 3 2 furyl acrolein was condensed with 4 S phenyloxazolidin 2 one 3 ylacetyl chloride to provide 1 benzyl 3β 4 S phenyloxazolidine 2 one 3 yl 4β 2 2 furyl ethenyl azetidine 2 one mp 181 182 C α Anal. Calcd. for C₂₅H₂₂N₂O₄ C, 72.44 H, 5.35. Found C, 72.44 H, 5.41. The 3 methoxystyryl substituted azetidinone prepared as described in Example 1 0.552 g, 1.22 mmol was hydrogenated balloon pressure in dichloromethane 20 mL over 0.052 g of 5 Pd on carbon for 3 hours at room temperature. Filtration through celite and removal of solvent under reduced pressure afforded 0.555 g 100 of the corresponding 4β 2 3 methoxyphenyl ethyl azetidinone compound 8 as a white solid. Recrystallization from hexanes ethyl acetate gave long needles mp 134 135 C α Anal. Calcd for C₂₀H₂₄N₄O₆ C, 73.66 H, 6.18. Found C, 73.48 H, 6.11. Lithium wire 0.548 g, 79 mmol was added to 55 ml of ammonia at 78 C and the mixture was warmed briefly to affect solution of the metal and then recooled to 78 C under positive argon pressure. The dark blue solution was first treated with The diene product was dissolved in 25 mL of 50 methanol in dichloromethane, treated with one drop of pyridine and ca. 1 mg of Sudan III dye Aldrich Chemical Co. , and ozonolyzed at 78 C until the red color discharged. Dimethyl sulfide 3 mL was added, the cold bath removed, and the reaction mixture stirred at room temperature for 5 hr. The light orange solution was poured into 100 mL of brine and extracted with dichloromethane 1 X 200 mL, 1 X 50 mL . The combined organic layers were dried Na₂SO₄ and concentrated. Chromatography of the residue on 65 g of silica with 7 isopropanol in dichloromethane afforded methyl 5 3β t butyloxycarbonylamino azetidin 2 one 4β yl 3 oxopentanoate 0.97 g, 60 from 8 as an off white solid. Recrystallization from toluene gave colorless needles mp 122 123 C α Anal. Calcd. for C₁₄H₂₂N₂O₆ C, 53.49 H, 7.06. Found C, 53.56 H, 7.11. The 3 t BOC aminoazetidinyl β keto ester prepared as described above was then converted to the 3 hydroxy 1 carba 1 dethia 3 cephem ester by the procedures of the following Example 6. To a 0 C solution of the β keto ester 1.13 g, 3.6 mmol in 10 mL of acetonitrile was added Anal. Calcd. for C₁₄H₂₀N₄O₆ C, 49.40 H, 5.92. Found C, 49.47 H, 5.93. A solution of benzyl alcohol 20 mL, 193 mmol and titanium isopropoxide 0.78 mL, 2.62 mmol was stirred under vacuum 1 mm Hg for 45 minutes to remove isopropanol. The flask was covered with foil, vented to argon, and the diazo β keto methyl ester 0.953 g, 2.80 mmol was added. the solution was heated at 36 C for 42 hours, diluted with 60 mL of diethyl ether, and treated with saturated aqueous Na₂SO₄ 3 mL . The mixture was stirred rapidly overnight, and then filtered through a pad of celite. After removal of ether on a rotary evaporator, the benzyl alcohol was distilled off using a kugelrohr oven 15 millitorr, 50 C . Chromatography of the residue on 100 g of silica afforded the corresponding diazo β keto benzyl ester 0.837 g, 72 as a white solid mp 152 153 dec α Anal. Calcd. for C₂₀H₂₄N₄O₆ C, 57.68 H, 5.81. Found C, 57.57 H, 5.74. A solution of the diazo β keto benzyl ester 0.12 g, 0.29 mmol in 6 mL of alumina filtered chloroform was heated to reflux and treated with rhodium II acetate dimer 1.5 mg, 0.0034 mmol . After heating for 20 minutes, the title compound was produced. A solution of 1 benzyl 3β 4 S phenyloxazolidin 2 one 3 yl 4β styryl azetidine 2 one 3.0 g, 7.06 mmol in 80 mL of 50 methanol in dichloromethane containing two drops of pyridine and a few milligrams of Sudan III dye Aldrich Chemical Co. was treated with a dilute mixture of ozone in oxygen at 78 C. When the red color of the dye was consumed, the ozone inlet was removed and 8 mL of dimethyl sulfide added. The solution was stirred for 3 hours at room temperature and then concentrated under reduced pressure. The oil was redissolved in 35 mL of ethanol, cooked ot 0 C, and treated with sodium borohydride 0.40 g, 10.6 mmol . After ca. 15 minutes a heavy precipitate formed. Water 35 mL was added and stirring continued at room temperature for another 30 minutes. Most of the ethanol was removed under reduced pressure and the remaining slurry partitioned between dichloromethane and water 200 mL each . The organic layer was dried Na₂SO₄ and concentrated to a white solid. Recrystallization from ethyl acetate dichloromethane first crop, 1.887 g and ethyl acetate hexanes second crop, 0.501 g gave 2.388 g 96 of 1 benzyl 3β 4 S phenyloxazolidin 2 one 3 yl 4β hydroxymethyl azetidine 2 one as white needles mp 159.5 l60.0 C α The 4β hydroxymethylazetidinone 0.497 g, 1.41 mmol was dissolved with warming in 8 ml of 7 1 THF The product obtained as described by Example 3, 0.5 g was dissolved in 10 ml of methylene chloride and was hydrogenated at room temperature for one hour under 50 psi hydrogen pressure in the presence of 0.05 g of 5 palladium on carbon. The reduction mixture was filtered and the clear filtrate was evaporated to provide the title compound as a white solid. A 500 ml 5 necked flask equipped with a nitrogen inlet, ammonia inlet, stirrer, thermometer, and drying tube was cooled under nitrogen to a temperature of about 70 C. in an acetone dry ice bath. The ammonia was turned on, the nitrogen flow discontinued, and about 200 ml of ammonia were collected in the flask. Lithium 1.66 g, 240 mmole cut in small pieces from lithium wire and washed under argon with benzene and diethyl ether was added to the ammonia. To the blue lithium ammonia solution was added dropwise over 4.5 minutes a solution of 10 g 24 mmole of 1 benzyl 3β 4 S phenyloxazolidin 2 one 3 yl 4β 2 2 furyl ethyl azetidin 2 one in 80 ml of tetrahydrofuran containing 3.85 ml 72 mmole of t butyl alcohol. The temperature of the reaction mixture rose to 46 C. and the mixture was stirred for about 3 minutes. The reaction was quenched with 18.9 ml of l,2 dichloroethane and 3.14 ml of acetic acid. The ammonia was evaporated by warming the mixture to room temperature and the THF was distilled off. THF was again added and distilled off to remove all ammonia. Aqueous THF was added to the residue of the product followed by 11.58 ml 48 mmole of di t butyl dicarbonate and the mixture was stirred overnight at room temperature. The two phase reaction mixture was extracted with methylene chloride and the extract dried and evaporated to dryness. The residue was stirred with diethyl ether and the white solid filtered to yield 1.7 g of the product, 3β t butyloxycarbonylamino 4β 2 2 furyl ethyl azetidin 2 one as a white solid. An additional 900 mg of the product was obtained from the mother liquor by trituration with ether. To a cold 30 C. solution of 1.2 g 4.3 mmole of 3β t butyloxycarbonylamino 4β 2 2 furyl ethyl azetidin 2 one in 15 ml of DMF were added dropwise with stirring 1.94 ml of Triton B . The mixture was stirred for 15 minutes at 30 C., warmed to 0 c. for 15 minutes, and recooled to 30 C. A solution of t butyl bromoacetate in 3 ml of DMF was added dropwise and the mixture stirred at 30 C. for 15 minutes, 1 hour at 0 C. and at room temperature for 2 hours. Cold water was added to the mixture and the precipitate was filtered. The precipitate was washed with water to remove DMF and dried under vacuum to yield 1.2 g 71 yield of the title compound as a white solid. A 100 ml round bottom flask equipped with a magnetic stirrer, nitrogen inlet, ozone inlet, a sodium bisulfite scrubber, and a thermometer, was charged with a solution of 1.0 g of 1 t butyloxycarbonylmethyl 3β t butyloxycarbonyl amino 4β 2 2 furyl ethyl azetidin 2 one in 30 ml of methylene chloride methyl alcohol 1 1, v v, and cooled to 78 C. A few crystals of Sudan III red dye were added and a stream of ozone in air was bubbled through the solution until the red color was discharged Ca. 40 minutes . The cooling bath was removed and 1.56 ml of dimethylsulfide were added. The reaction mixture was warmed to room teperature and stirred for about 5 hours. The mixture was poured into aqueous sodium bicarbonate and the mixture washed with methylene chloride. The aqueous layer was acidified with hydrochloric acid and extracted with methylene chloride. The extract was washed with brine, dried over sodium sulfate and evaporated to yield 400 mg of the title compound as a foam. To a cold 0 C. solution of 350 mg of 1 t butyloxycarbonylmethyl 3β t butyloxycarbonylamino 4β 2 carboxyethyl azetidin 2 one in 6 ml of methylene chloride containing 1 ml of DMF maintained under nitrogen were added 26 mg of dimethylaminopyridine, 0.308 ml of thiophenol, and 212 mg of dicyclohexylcarbodiimide DCC . The mixture was stirred in the cold for 10 minutes and at room temperature for 1 hour. An additional 45 mg of DCC were added and stirring was continued for 2 hours. After standing overnight, the mixture was poured into 40 ml of methylene chloride and the mixture washed with an aqueous sodium bicarbonate solution 50 of saturated , with 0.1N hydrochloric acid, and with a saturated sodium bicarbonate solution. The solution was dried over sodium sulfate and evaporated to dryness to yield the title compound as a partly crystalline oil. To a solution of 4.4 g 9.47 mmole of the azetidinone phenylthio ester, prepared according to the method described in Example 14 in 100 ml of dry THF and maintained under argon at 78 C is added 29.5 ml 3.12 mmol of lithium hexamethyldisilazane. After about 15 minutes the mixture is poured into 750 ml of aqueous ammonium chloride 50 of saturation and the pH is adjusted to 3 with 1N hydrochloric acid. The acidified mixture is extracted three times with 50 ml portions of methylene chloride, the extracts combined, washed with brine, dried over sodium sulfate and concentrated by evaporation. The concentrate is initially chromatographed over silica using hexane ethyl acetate, ca 3 1, v v followed by a 1 1, v v. mixture of the same solvents for elution of the product. The eluate is evaporated to dryness to provide the title compound.