# HOMOGENEOUS ERYTHROPOIETIN

## Claims
Patentansprüche für folgende Vertragsstaaten BE, CH, DE, FR, GB, IT, LI, LU, NL, SE

## Description
Erythrocytes also called red blood cells serve a critical role in carrying oxygen to mammalian tissues. They are produced by the maturation and differentiation of erythroblasts in bone marrow. Erythropoietin also referred to as EPO is a glycoprotein which naturally stimulates erythrocyte formation in mammals. In certain clinical states, e.g. various anemias, the level of erythrocytes is undesirably low. Exogenously administered EPO has promise as a therapeutic agent for the clinical treatment of such conditions. For therapeutic use, it is highly desirable that the EPO be homogeneous. Unfortunately, exogenous EPO is not in practical use due to its low availability and heterogeneity. The preparation heretofore of erythropoietin related products has generally been via the concentration and purification of urine from patients exhibiting high EPO levels. See, for example, U.S. Patent Nos. 3,865,801 4,303,650 and 4,397,840. In particular, EPO has been purified from the urine of patients with aplastic anemia by the method described by Miyake et al., We have now discovered that this seemingly homogeneous EPO composition produced by the method of Miyake et al. is composed of several polypeptide components ranging from 30,000 to 70,000 daltons. The present invention provides for the first time a homogeneous EPO composition. We prepared such a composition by subjecting an erythropoietin solution which has been partially purified by the Miyake type method to reverse phase high performance liquid chromatography and eluting the EPO protein. We thereby produced homogeneous EPO characterized by FIG. 1 is an elution profile of an EPO composition treated by reverse phase high performance liquid chromatography in accord with the present invention illustrating absorbance of fractions at 280 nm versus time. Table 1 is the amino acid sequence of a human EPO protein including its secretory leader sequence. The availability of homogeneous EPO will permit the sequencing of its amino acid composition by techniques known in the art to permit the construction of probes with which to fish out the corresponding human genes and thus facilitate production of EPO by recombinant DNA techniques. In fact, an operable recombinant DNA process for producing EPO which relies on sequence information obtained through the use of EPO of this invention is described in WO 86 03520. The method of Miyake et al. comprises deactivating any proteolytic enzymes by treating the crude EPO preparations with phenol p aminosalicylate. Such proteases can also be deactivated by other means such as by heating. The purification steps described by Miyake et al. include ethanol precipitation, DEAE agarose fractionation, sulfopropyl Sephadex chromatography, gel filtration and hydroxylapatite chromatography. The purified EPO compositions obtained thereby reportedly have a specific EPO activity of at least about 50,000, preferably at least about to 80,000 IU, per absorbance unit at 280 nm. The prior art thus considered pure EPO as having a specified activity of about 80,000 IU . We found the purified Miyake EPO composition to be non homogeneous. By further treating this composition by reverse phase high performance liquid chromatography R P HPLC we obtained a homogeneous EPO having a molecular weight of about 34,000 daltons when analyzed by sodium dodecyl sulfate polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis SDS PAGE . A preferred reverse phase HPLC column for use in this invention is a column having four carbon butyl chain groups attached thereto. A commercial example is the C 4 Vydac column available from The Nest Group, Southboro, MA. Other reverse columns with different carbon chain groups, such as eight carbon or eighteen carbon, may also be used. A preferred eluant consists of a 0 to 95 acetonitrile gradient in 0.01 to 1.0 , preferably 0.1 trifluoroacetic acid, over a period of about 100 minutes. Other eluants can of course also be used. When purified in accordance with the present invention, EPO compositions having a specific activity of at least 160,000 IU per absorbance unit at 280 nm are obtained. An absorbance unit, as used herein, is approximately 1 mg protein per ml. The amino acid sequence of an EPO protein derived from a human source, including its secretory leader sequence is illustrated in Table I. The mature EPO protein begins with the Ala residue identified by the arabic number 1 . The secretory leader sequence is the polypeptide sequence preceding the mature EPO protein beginning with the MET residue identified by the numeral 27 . This DNA sequence can be expressed in a cell capable of processing the EPO protein to eliminate the leader sequence and secrete the mature protein into the media. In clinical uses, e.g., in the treatment of various anemias, the amount of EPO will, of course, depend upon the severity of the condition being treated, the route of administration chosen, and the specific activity of the EPO, and ultimately will be decided by the attending physician. EPO may be administered by any route appropriate to the condition being treated. Preferably, the EPO is injected into the bloodstream. The formulations of the present invention comprise an active EPO protein, as above described, together with one or more pharmaceutically acceptable carriers therefor and optionally other therapeutic ingredients. The carrier s must be acceptable in the sense of being compatible with the other ingredients of the formulation and not deleterious to the recipient thereof. Formulations suitable for parenteral administration conveniently comprise a sterile parenterally acceptable vehicle, e.g., water containing a therapeutically effective amount of EPO. Solutions are preferably isotonic. The following example illustrates the preparation of the product of the present invention. Crude erythropoietin preparations, derived from patients with aplastic anemia, were concentrated by dialysis. Proteolytic enzymes were deactivated by heat treatment at 80 C for 5 minutes. The crude preparation concentrates were then purified by the above method described by Miyake et al. Batches containing about 100,000 IU of EPO activity at concentrations of about 50 to 100 IU per absorbance unit at 280 nm were diluted to 50 ml with phosphate buffered solution PBS at 4 C. 12.5 ml of 10 M LiCl were added. Absolute ethanol 62.5 ml at 4 was added slowly with stirring, which was continued for 30 min. after the addition was complete. After the flocculent precipitate had been allowed to settle for 10 min. it was removed by centrifugation at 21,000 x g for 10 min at 15 . The pellet was washed three times with 10 ml of 50 ethanol, 1 m LiCl and the supernatants were pooled. The washed precipitate was dissolved in 20 ml of PBS, yielding a turbid solution 50 precipitate. Sixty seven milliliters of absolute ethanol were added slowly to the combined supernatants stirring was continued for 30 min. and settling for 15 min. The precipitate was collected as before and washed twice with 10 ml of 65 ethanol, 0.7 M LiCl and the supernatants were pooled. The washed precipitate was dissolved in 20 ml of PBS 65 precipitate . To the pooled supernatants, 96 ml of ethanol were added slowly and stirring was continued for 30 min. after which the precipitate was allowed to settle for 14 h at 4 . The precipitate was washed twice with 10 ml of 75 ethanol, 0.5 M LiCl, the supernatants were pooled, and the precipitate was dissolved in 20 ml of PBS 75 precipitate . The combined supernatant was brought to 90 ethanol by addition of 540 ml of absolute alcohol, stirred for 30 min. and stored at 20 for 48 hrs. before the precipitate was collected, dissolved in 50 ml of cold water and immediately frozen. The solution, in water, of a 90 ethanol precipitate was concentrated to about 5 ml of an Amicon UM 10 ultrafilter, then brought to 25 ml with 0.01 M Tris, pH 7.0, and a 50 ul aliquot was removed. The DEAE agarose, 100 to 200 mesh, was degassed under reduced pressure, suspended in 0.01 M Tris, pH 7.0, and packed into a column 9.2 x 2.5 cm in diameter bed volume, 45 ml . The gel was washed with 1.5 liters of 0.01 M Tris, pH 6.9 the ratio of absorbance units added to bed volume ml was 6.65. The sample was added to the column over a period of 40 min. and 150 drop fractions were collected. The column was washed with 211 ml of 0.01 M Tris, pH 7, and then eluted with the following buffers 366 ml of 0.01 M Tris, pH 7.0 5mM CaCl₂, 270 ml of 0.01 Tris, pH 7.0 17 mM CaCl₂ 194 ml of 0.01 M Tris, pH 7.0 3 mM CaCl₂ and 65 ml of 0.1 M CaCl₂. From this point on in the fractionation calcium was added to all buffers except those used with hydroxylapatite columns because there were inconsistent results and appreciable losses of activity when buffers without calcium were used. For the next step in purification, eluates from DEAE agarose columns were selected that had significant quantities of EPO activity. The eluates 17 mM CaCl₂ from DEAE agarose columns were desalted and concentrated on a UM 10 ultafilter and then dialyzed against 2 liters of 5 mM CaCl₂, pH 7.5 overnight. In the sample run described below, 30 ml of dialyzed solution were brought to pH 4.50 by dropwise addition of 0.1 M HCl the small amount of precipitate formed was removed by centrifugation and washed with 5 ml of 5 mM CaCl₂ The 12.5 and 15 mM calcium acetate eluates from the sulfopropyl Sephadex column separations were run in two separate batches on the same gel column. The pools were concentrated on Amicon UM 2 ultrafilters to about 5 ml and equilibrated with 10 mM CaCl₂, 10 mM Tris, pH 6.87, before application to the column. The Sephadex G 100 gel was degassed under reduced pressure and equilibrated with the same buffer before the column was poured. The column 100 x 2.5 cm diameter was calibrated with markers of known molecular size before being used for the erythropoietin fractions. The void volume was 135 ml bovine serum albumin monomer eluted at 224 ml. ovalbumin at 258 ml, and cytochrome at 368 ml. The sample was added to the bottom of the column, as was the buffer which was passed through the column at 21 to 22 ml by means of Mariotte bottle with a 42 cm hydrostatic head. Each fraction collected was 4.1 ml 120 drop , and pools were made. The pools were concentrated by ultrafiltration and aliquots were assayed. Hydroxylapatite was packed under unit gravity into a column 6.1 x 1.5 cum diameter and washed with 500 ml of water and then with 400 ml of 0.5 mM phosphate buffer, pH 7.1, conductivity 69 µmho cm ¹ Buffer I , by use of a peristaltic pump which maintained the flow at 0.3 ml min. After the buffer wash, the length of the column was 3.4 cm and the bed volume was 6.0 ml. the input sample was concentrated and desalted on an Amicon DM 5 ultrafilter by adding water to the concentrate and the wash of the filter was centrifuged at 6,000 x g for 20 min. at 4 . The small insoluble pellet was washed once with 0.5 mM phosphate, pH 7.1, and the wash was added to the supernatant. An aliquot for assay was removed and the remainder 22 ml was added to the column. The ratio of absorbance units added to bed volume ml was 1.82. The input buffer was pumped through the column until the effluent A was less than 0.005 149 ml and the following elution schedule was carried out Buffer II, 1 mM phosphate pH 7.1, specific conductivity 131 µmho cm ¹, 150 ml Fraction II Buffer III, 2 mM phosphate pH 6.9, specific conductivity 270 µmho cm ¹, 220 ml fractions IIIA and IIIB Buffer IV, 3 mM phosphate pH 6.9, specific conductivity 402 umho cm ¹, 84 ml Fraction IV Buffer V, 0.1 M phosphate pH 6.8, specific conductivity 9.6 µmho cm ¹, 134 ml Fraction V . Fractions containing EPO were concentrated by means of Amicon DM 5 ultrafilter, an aliquot assayed and the concentrate stored frozen. The assay indicated a specific EPO activity of 83,000 IU per absorbance unit at 280 nm. When analyzed by sodium dodecyl sulfate polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis SDS PAGE according to Laemmli, U.K., The EPO preparation was concentrated 10 fold by partial lyophilization. Approximately 200 microliters of this concentrated material was injected onto a R P HPLC column, the type with four carbon groups attached a commercial example is a C 4 Vydac , 25 x 0.45 cm, the Separations Group and fractionated by a R P HPLC using the gradient conditions described in Table 2. EPO is quantified by either the 3H thymidine assay Krystal, Protein peaks were detected by UV absorption at 280 nm. A typical elution profile of this fractionation process is shown in Fig. 1. The homogenous nature of EPO was confirmed by SDS PAGE and N terminal amino acid sequence analysis of the various peaks observed after R P HPLC. The peak that is underlined in Fig. 1 elutes coincidentally with a reading of 53 on the gradient maker Beckman Instruments, model 421 . This material runs as a single band of about 34,000 MW using SDS PAGE and yields a single amino terminal sequence of Ala, Pro, Pro, Arg, Leu, Ile, Cys as has been previously reported for human EPO. Only this R P HPLC fraction of about 34,000 MW showed any significant biological activity