# Electrolytic cell comprising stainless steel anode and a process for preparing polychloropicolinate anions.

## Abstract
An important increase in the yield of 3,6 dichloro picolinic acid prepared by electrolytic reduction of tetrachloro 2 picolinic acid in basic, aqueous solution, at a silver cathode results when a stainless steel anode is used, rather than those graphite, e.g. taught in the prior art.

## Claims
1. An electrolytic cell characterized by having a stainless steel anode and a cathode having a surface layer of silver microcrystals formed by elec trolytic reduction of colloidal, hydrous silver oxide particles in the presence of an aqueous base.

## Description
Production of 3,6 dichloropicolinic acid 3,6 D , a highly active plant growth regulator, by electrolytic reduction of tetrachloro 2 picolinic acid tet acid at a silver cathode in basic, aqueous solution is disclosed in U.S.P. 4,217,185. The cathode has a surface layer of silver micro crystals formed by the electrolytic reduction of colloidal, hydrous, silver oxide particles in the presence of an aqueous base. The presence of other noble metals is not beneficial and the presence of base metals nickel and copper, most notably definitely lowers the activity of the cathode. However, other conductive metals, including stainless steel, may serve as a substrate on which the silver layer is formed, provided that the substrate metal not be subjected to anodization as in a preferred method of forming the precursor silver oxide particles . Inert electrode materials are generally suit able for the anode to be used in conjunction with the silver cathode, but in order to attain 3,6 D yields of 90 percent or more, it is necessary, according to the patent, to employ anodes consisting essentially of graphite. Other anode materials are believed to encour age decarboxylation Kolbe type oxidation of polychloro pyridine carboxylate anions . It has been found that 3,6 D yield and purity are sensitive to the type of graphite the anode is made of. Furthermore, even the most suitable graphite found Union Carbide grade ATL graphite undergoes spalling and a drop off in 3,6 D yield and purity is experienced as the anode ages in use. This is readily corrected by replacing the anode with a fresh one, but that results in higher capital and operating expenses. Accordingly, it is apparent that an otherwise suitable anode material less susceptible to deleterious alterations in prolonged use would be highly desirable. This invention provides a superior anode for use with a cathode at which tetrachloro 2 picolinic acid in aqueous, basic solution can be selectively reduced to 3,6 dichloropicolinic acid in high yield. The invention also provides an electrolytic cell incorporating the improved anode and adapted for the conversion of the tet acid to 3,6 D. The invention further provides a means of avoiding the costs and processing interruptions asso ciated with periodic replacement of graphite anodes and the consequent fluctuations in the purity of the 3,6 D product and a means to eliminate the source of the trace metal impurities known to be present in available graphites which impurities are believed responsible for the apparent need for periodic acid washing of the cathode disclosed in the prior act. The cell of the invention comprises a stain less steel anode and a cathode at which tetrachloro 2 picolinate anions in basic, aqueous solution can be selectively reduced in high yield to 3,6 dichloro 2 picolinate anions. The electrolyte employed in the cell is a working component of the cell, not the material worked on reduced or oxidized by the cell. In those instances in which electrolysis of water formation of hydrogen at the cathode and or of oxygen at the anode occurs as a side or co reaction, the unconverted portion of the aqueous base still functions as the electrolyte. The process of the invention is the use of the foregoing cell in the electrolytic process for the co production of oxygen and polychloropicolinate anions of the structure The process of the present invention is the improvement which comprises employing stainless steel as the anode material. Suitable anode materials for the practice of the present invention are those alloys of chromium, nickel and iron commonly designated as stainless steels which are highly resistant to corrosion by basic, aqueous chloride brines at temperatures up to 60 C. The resistance to corrosion by basic brines at various OH and Cl concentrations is well known for a wide range of stainless steel compositions. The presently most preferred such material is 316 stainless steel which has the composition 0.11 weight percent C, 17 19 weight percent Cr, 7 11 weight percent Ni and 2 4 weight percent Mo the balance consisting essen tially of Fe . Other specific suitable stainless steels are grades 302 through 310 and 320, 321 and 403. The preferred cathode for the practice of the present invention is one having a surface layer of silver microcrystals formed by the electrolytic reduc tion of colloidal, hydrous silver oxide particles in the presence of an aqueous base. However, any other cathode capable of selectively reducing tetrachloro 2 picolinate anions to 3,6 dichloro 2 picolinate anions in yields of at least 90 mole percent may be employed with the stainless steel anode. Polychloropicolinic acids of the preceding formula B may be reduced to the corresponding acids of formula A as known in the art but employing the cell of the present invention, i.e., a cell comprising a stainless steel anode, a basic aqueous electrolyte and a cathode having the capability specified in the immediately preceding paragraph. The electrodes in the latter cell may be of any configuration, the same or different. However, it is preferred that the cathode and anode take the form of concentrically disposed cylinders. Similarly, each electrode may be formed of a solid bar or sheet, a screen or expanded sheet. High surface area forms, such as screens or other foraminous sheets, for example, are preferred, particu larly in those applications in which the cell contents are agitated. It should be noted that the anode does not have to be a monolithic body of metal. It is only necessary that those portions of the anode surface layer subject to contact with the cell contents consist of stainless steel and that the anode as a whole is otherwise suitable . The utility of the present cell of course is not limited to reductions of polychloropicolinic acids. It may be employed for the reduction or oxida tions of any substrate material which is soluble in an aqueous base and does not as such or in its reduced or oxidized form detrimentally react with the electrolyte to an intolerable extent. Where appropriate, the cell may also comprise a diaphragm or an equivalent anolyte catholyte separating means and or agitation of the cell contents may be dispensed with. Such other modifi cations, or ancillary apparatus as may be necessary or appropriate to utilization of the present cell in any particular electrochemical application will be apparent to those skilled in the art of electrochemistry. Similarly, the appropriate values for such process parameters as temperature, electrode potentials, pH, choice of base, base concentration, etc., will also be apparent to those skilled in the art. Any otherwise suitable source of hydroxyl and counter ions may be employed as the base in the cell and process of the present invention. However, alkali metal hydroxides are preferred, most notably KOH or NaOH, the latter being particularly preferred. The term otherwise suitable of course implies that the base employed does not detrimentally react with any component of the cell itself or any other component of the cell contents to an intolerable degree. A restraint is imposed on base concentration by the susceptibility of at least some stainless steels to corrosion at low hydroxide concentrations. In the case of 316 stainless, the hydroxide concentration should not be allowed to drop below about 1.0 weight percent, particularly at temperatures above normal ambient temperatures. It should be noted that the term aqueous base is not intended to exclude the presence in the anolyte and or catholyte of other substances, such as, for example, organic co solvents or soluble salts, which do not detrimentally affect obtention of the desired product. The following examples further illustrate the invention. To a 200 ml electrolytic beaker equipped with a Teflon coated magnetic stirring bar, a cylindrical silver screen cathode, a cylindrical, imperforate 316SS anode, a Luggin capillary tube fitted with a standard calomel electrode SCE and a thermometer, was added enough 1 1, v v, conc. HCl H₂O to fill the cell Luggin capillary removed . The aqueous HCl was stirred in the cell for 10 min. followed by draining, rinsing well with reverse osmosis purified RO water, then filling with 108.24 gms. of 7.0 weight percent NaOH mercury grade caustic solution prepared with RO water . The cathode was anodized to 0.6V vs SCE for 5 min. 3 amps maximum , followed by cathodization to 1.3V vs SCE 3 amps maximum , giving a background current of 0.5 amperes. The tet acid 11.76 g, 0.0451 mols was added portion wise over 3.5 hours by masticating each 2 gm portion with cell liquor, then returning the result ing slurry to the bulk of the solution. The electro lysis proceeded as follows the cathode potential rela tive to the SCE remaining at 1.3 volts throughout, except during periodic anodization intervals as noted for a total reaction time of 5.4 hours 382 57 325 minutes The cell liquor was filtered by suction through celite, then stored in the cold 5 C. for 65 hours. The cell liquor pH 12.56 was acidified with conc. HCl to pH 1.00, and the resulting mixture was extracted with CH₂Cl₂ 3 l00 ml 9 50 ml . The com bined organic layer was dried over anhydrous Na₂SO₄ 5 min. , filtered, and the solvent was removed at reduced pressure rotary evaporator, 50 C., 30 min. to give 8.65 gms of white crystalline solid. The latter solid was found by Gas Liquid Phase Chromatography to be 98.458 weight percent 3,6 dichloro 2 picolinic acid. The theoretical yield of 100 percent 3,6 D was calculated as 0.98458 8.65 191.96 0.04508 98.4 percent. In essentially the manner of Example 1, a series of runs was carried out using three different grade graphite anodes and one grade 316 stainless steel anode. The results are given in Table II below It will be seen that the yield of 3,6 D of essentially the same purity was consistently higher with the stainless steel anode. The average yield for the seven runs with fresh ATL graphite anodes was 95.86 percent and the average for the twelve runs with the same stainless steel anode was 98.94 percent. Ignoring the very minor difference in average account ability for the two series, at least a 3 percent higher yield is indicated for the stainless steel anode. For a process operated on a commercial scale, this is an important improvement. When the same ATL graphite anode was used for thirteen successive runs, a drop in product yield and purity to 83 percent of 91 percent pure 3,6 D resulted. A run made with the same cell but with a fresh ATL anode resulted in a 99 percent yield of 99 percent pure 3,6 D. In contrast, a 97.7 percent yield of 98 percent pure 3,6 D was obtained from run number 12 Table II with the stainless steel anode.