# Method and apparatus for measuring temperature of substrate.

## Abstract
A method for measuring the temperature of a substrate comprises forming a drop of molten metal on the surface of a substrate on which a thin film is formed or the surface of a substrate holder and dipping the top of a thermocouple into the drop of the molten metal. An apparatus for measuring the temperature of a substrate is equipped with a spring having contraction and expansion properties at the rear end of a thermocouple.

## Claims
What is claimed is 1. A method for measuring a temperature of a substrate by making a tip of a thermocouple directly contacts surface of said substrate on which a thin film is formed, comprising the steps of forming a molten metal drop on the surface of said substrate or a substrate holder and dipping the tip of said thermocòuple into said molten metal drop. 2. A method for measuring a temperature of a substrate as claimed in claim 1, wherein said substrate is conductive. 3. A method for measuring a temperature of a substrate as claimed in claim 2, further comprising the steps of detecting an electrical conduction between said thermocouple and a wall surface of a growth chamber so that contact of said tip of said thermocouple with said drop is detected. 4. A method for measuring a temperature as claimed in claim 1, wherein said substrate is semi insulated. 5. A method for measuring a temperatue of a substrate as claimed in claim 4, further comprising the steps of observing a temperature of said tip of said thermocouple approaching the surface of said substrate so that the contact of said tip of said thermocouple with said drop is detected. 6. An appratus for measuring a temperature of a substrate by making a tip of a thermocouple directly contact a surface of said substrate on which a thin film is formed, comprising a spring having contraction and expansion properties, said spring being installed at a rear end of said thermocouple. 7. An apparatus for measuring a temperature of a substrate as claimed in claim 6, wherein a molten metal drop is formed on the surface of said substrate. 8. An apparatus for measuring a temperature of a substrate as claimed in claim 7, wherein said drop is made of a metal selected from the group consisting of In and Ga. 9. An appatatus for measuring a temperature of a substrate as claimed in claim 8, wherein a diameter of said drop is several mm or less and said substrate rotates at the rotation speed of SO r.p.m. or less. 10. An apparatus for measuring a temperature of a substrate as claimed in claim 6, further comprising a bellows installed between a pair of high vaccum flanges an insulating hollow cylindrical tube inserted into said bellows, a rear end of said tube being supported by one of said pair of high vacuum flanges through said spring and a front end of tid tube being protruded into a goth chamber through an opening of the other of said pair of high vacuum flanges and thermoelectronic terminals electrically shielded and vaccum sealed in said one of said high vacuum flanges, a rear end of said thermocouple being connected to said ther noelectronic terminals and a front end of said thermocouple being protruded from said insulating hollow cylindrical tube. 11. An apparatus for measuring a temperature of a substrate as claimed in claim 10, wherein said insulating hollow cylindrical tube is made of a material selected from the group consisting of PBN and alumina. 12. An apparatus for measuting a temperature of a subsrate as claimed in claim 11, further comprising a hollow cylinder of tantlum, said hollow cylinder enveloping said inculation hollow cylindrical tube. 13. An apparatus for measuring a temperature of a substrate as claimed in claim 12, wherein said thermocouple is composed of W Re wires, two branch wires of said W Re wires at the rear end of said thermocouple being connected to said thermocouple terminals, and said branch wires being enveloped by thin PBN or alumina insulating tubes.

## Description
METHOD AND APPARATUS FOR MEASURING TEMPERATURE OF SUBSTRATE BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION This invention relates to a ethod and apparatus for measuring the teiperature of a substrate vhere a thin fili of desired cosposition is deposited in a vacuum growth chamber by leans of vacuum evaporation, chemical vapor growth, or molecular beam epitaxial growth. When an epitaxially grown fili of GaAs is deposited on a substrate bonded vith fused In by beans of e.g., the molecular bear epitaxial growth, elements such as Ga, As making up the epitaxially grown filp are conventionally contained in separate evaporation source cells 2 hereinafter only one evaporation source cell is shown for brevity within a highvacuum growth chamber 1 shown in Fig. 1 and the evaporation source cell 2 is heated. The substances obtained by evaporation are then applied to a heated substrate 3 in the fori of a molecular bean and evaporated molecules which do not contribute to evaporation are discharged fro the growth chamber, so that the epitaxially grown fili of GaAs is deposited on the substrate 3.If the intensity of As incident on the substrate 3 is sufficiently greater than that of Ga, As caused to react on Ga and used to for GaAs retains on the substrate 3. On the other hand, excessive As which has not reacted thereon is alloved to drift avay froi the substrate because the vapor pressure is high. As the substrate 3 is norminaly attached to a sanipulator not shown within the growth chamber 1 and turned, it is heated not directly but by radiant heat derived froi a heater 5 installed in a recess formed in the rear surface of a substrate holder 4 on which the substrate is bonded.The temperature of the substrate 3 is conventionally treasured, for exanple, by a thenexDuple 6 using u7 W Pe inserted in the center of the recess formed in the rear surface of the substrate holder 4 as described in molecular Beam Epitaxyn K. Takahashi, Industrial Research Institute, pp 72 73. Since GaAs is epitaxially grown while the substrate is being turned according to that method, the tip of the thermocouple 6 is made not to directly contact the substrate holder 4. There has also been employed another method for measuring the temperature of the substrate 3, vithout using a thermocouple but a radiation thermometer 8 outside the growth chamber 1, by receiving thermal radiant rays from the surface of the substrate 3 through a window 7 of the growth chamber 1 as shown in Fig. 2. As shown in Figs.3 a and 3 b further, the present inventor have employed the method of measuring the temperature of a substrate by allowing the tip of a thermocouple to directly contact the surface of the substrate vhere a thin film is formed. in Figs. 3 a and 3 b , a substrate temperature treasuring device 10 is attached to part of the wall of a growth chamber 1 through a high vacuum flange 11.The substrate temperature measuring device 10 comprises, as shown in Figs. 3 a and 3 b , a bellows 12 extensible installed between a pair of high vacuui flanges 11, 11, an insulating hollow cylindrical tube 13 inserted into the bellows 12, with the rear end supported by the high vaccup flange 11 outside the growth chamber and the front end made protrusible into the growth chamber through an opening 11a of the high vacuum flange 11 outside the growth chamber, and a theriocouple 6 inserted into the insulating hollow cylindrical tube 13.The rear end of the thermocouple 6 is connected to thermoelectronic terminals 15 insulation shielded and vacuum sealed in the high vacuum flange 11 outside the growth chamber, whereas the front end thereof is protruded from the tip of the insulating hollow cylindrical tube 13 so as to measure the output generated in the thermocouple. In the growth chamber 1 thus equipped with the substrate temperature measuring device 10, the bellows 12 is first extended by pulling the high vacuur flange 11 outside the growth chamber in the direction opposite to the growth chamber as shown in Fig. 3 a vhen a thin film of desired composition is deposited on the substrate 3 to prevent the thermocouple 6 froi intercepting a molecular beam evaporating from an evaporation source cell 2. When the temperature of the substrate 3 is measured before the thin film is deposited, the high vacuum flange 11 outside the growth chamber is compressed toward the growth chamber so as to compress the bellows 12 and the tip of the thermocouple 6 is caused to contact the surface of the substrate. If the substrate holder 5 is grounded through the vall of the growth chamber, whether or not the thermocouple 6 is kept in contact vith the surface of the substrate 3 can be judged by confirming the electrical conduction between the thermocouple terminals 15 and any one point on the vall of the growth chamber. On the other hand, the temperature of the substrate can be measured by means of the output taken out of the thermocouple terminals 15. As shown in Fig. 1, if the temperature of the substrate is measured at the rear surface of the substrate holder, the temperture detected by the thermocouple will be different from the surface temperature of the substrate because the substrate holder bearing a different thermal capacity is juxtaposed between the thermocouple and the substrate and besides because the substrate is set far apart from the thermocouple. Moreover, if the thickness and shapes of the substrate holder and the substrate are changed, the thermal capacity will change and the difference between the temperature detected by the thermocouple and that on the surface of the substrate vill become inconstant.When the thermocouple is replaced because of the disconnection of the thermucoupie, the position of the tip of a new thenoocauple will change and the above tenperature difference will also fluctuate. If the thermocouple and the substrate holder are allowed to contact each other in order to prevent such problems from occuring, the tip of the thermocouple will vear and deteriorate vhen the substrate holder is turned during the growth of a thin film. The substrate holder is normally turned during the growth of a thin film to make uniform the distribution of the composition and thickness of the growth layer vithin the surface of the substrate. As shown in Fig. 2 , moreover, the method of measuring the surface temperature of the substrate by means of a radiation thermometer is disadvantageous in that the focus of the radiation thermometer can hardly be adjusted vith accuracy and high reproducibility because the surface of the substrate is arranged in the form of a mirror and consequently the temperature readout is dependent on the adjustment of the focus. As the area of the substrate is as vide as vhat measures about 1 ci x l cm, the temperature being measured is representative of an averaged one vithin the area in the case of a radiation thermometer. Since the thermocouple installed on the rear surface of the substrate holder is fixed in the center of the recess therein, the distribution of temperatures in the surface of the substrate is hardly measurable. As shown in Figs. 3 a and 3 b further, although the method of measuring the substrate temperature by allowing the tip of the thermocouple to directly contact the surface of the substrate has greatly been improved as compared vith those shown in Figs. 1 and 2 in viev of the reproducibility and accuracy of temperature measurement, it still presents problems to be solved, e.g., the deformation of and damage to the tip of the thermocouple or cracks developed in the whole substrate vafer 3 because the bellows 12 may be excessively compressed when the tip of the thermocouple is caused to contact the surface of the substrate.Further, as shown in Fig. 3 b , errors produced by the repetition of temperature measurement ranged over about f0.50C due to the delicate fluctuation of the contact area when the tip of the thermocouple is made to contact the surface of the substrate. SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION The present invention is intended to remedy the drawbacks of conventional methods for measuring the temperature of a substrate on which a thin film is formed by means of vacuum evaporation, molecular beam epitaxial growth and the like, and it is therefore an object of the invention to provide a method and apparatus for measuring the temperature of a substrate, the method and apparatus being capable of measuring the surface temperature of the substrate and the distribution of temperatures thereon vith accuracy and promptitude, irrespective of the shape and thickness of the substrate on which a thin film is formed and preventing not only damage to a substrate wafer but also the deformation of and damage to the tip of a thermocouple. In order to solve the above problems, the method of measuring the temperature of a substrate according to the present invention cooprises forming e drop of molten metal on the surface of the substrate on which a thin fit is formed or the surface of a substrate holder and dipping the tip of a thermocouple into the drop of the molten metal. The apparatus for measuring the temperature of a substrate according to the present invention is equipped vith a spring having contraction and expansion properties at the rear end of a thermocouple. As shown in Fig. 5, drops of In, Ga etc. are formed on the surface of the substrate 3 to improve the thermal contact between the surface of the substrate and the tip of the thermocouple and the tip of the thermocouple 6 is dipped into the drops. Fig. 5 shovs an example wherein the drops are formed in the center and at the edge of the substrate and, in both cases, the tip of the thermocouple 6 could be dipped into the drops by slightly tilting the bellows 12 shown in Figs. 4 a and 4 b .Although sane fear was entertained initially in that, because the substrate holder and the substrate were rotated during the growth of a thin film as shown in Fig. 5, the drops on the surface of the substrate might move around thereon and roughen the surface of a growth layer, the phenomenon wherein the drops might aove around on the surface of the substrate was almost negligible to the extent that it posed no problem, provided that the size of the drop was roughly several mm or smaller and that the speed of rotation was lower than about 50 r.p.m. This means the presence of drops noway badly affected any portion other than where the drops vere formed as far as the intended growth of the thin film was concerned.In the case of Fig. 4 , the instant the tip of the thermocouple 6 was dipped into the drop 16,electrical conduction vas obtained between the thermocouple 6 and the vall surface of the growth chamber 1 vhen the substrate vas conductive. By making use of the above fact, the contact of the tip of the thermocouple vith the drop could be detected, so that the direct contact of the tip of the thermocouple with the surface of the substrate could be avoided. When the substrate is a semi insulating one of such as Fe doped InP or Cr O doped GaAs, it is possible to detect the contact of the tip of the thermocouple vith the drop by observing the temperature of the tip of the thermocouple.Fig. 6 shows a temperature change resulting from bringing the tip of the thermocouple close to the surface of the substrate.According to Fig. 6, no temperature change vas observed after the tip of the thermocouple contacted the drops on the surface of the substrate. When the similar phenomenon was observed using a conductive substrate, the point at vhich the temperature became constant accurately conformed to the point of tine at which electrical conduction between the wall surface of the growth chamber and the thermocouple was established. In view of the foregoing, the section wherein the temperature becomes constant is considered equivalent to a section starting with the contact of the tip of the thermocouple with the drops until the contraction of the spring after the contact thereof with the surface of the substrate.In consequence, the constant temperature based on the observation of the temperature change while the bellows 12 is compressed is equivalent to the surface temperature of the substrate. In order to find the point at which the temperature becomes constant, hovever, the bellows 12 must be compressed to confirm the point at which the temperature stops changing after the tip of the thermocouple contacts the drops. When such operation is conducted, the surface of the substrate vill be pressed against the tip of the thermocouple and either the thermocouple or the substrate may be damaged extensively.For this reason, as shown in Figs. 4 a and 4 b , the spring 17 having contraetian and expansion properties was installed at the rear end of the thernrxrouple. As a result, even if the bellows 12 was further compressed after the tip of the thermocouple contacted the surface of the substrate, the force applied to the tip of the thermocouple being pressed against the surface of the substrate would be eased by the presence of the spring. Accordingly, even vhen the bellows was excessively compressed, no damage was caused to the tip of the thermocouple or the substrate. The method of measuring the surface temperature of the substrate according to the present invention thus comprises forming a drop of molten metal on the surface of the substrate or the substrate holder and dipping the tip of the thermocouple into the molten metal drop. Since the spring having contraction and expansion properties is installed at the rear end of the thermocouple, the surface temperature of the substrate can be measured accurately vithout damaging the substrate vafer and transforming or damaging the tip of the thermocouple. BRIEF DESCPIpTIOlN OF THE DRAWINGS Figs. 1, 2, and 3 a and 3 b are sectional views illustrating a conventional method for measuring the surface temperature of a substrate. Figs. 4 a and 4 r are sectional views of the principal rortions of an appratus embodyng the present invention for measuring the surface terperature of a substrate. Fig. 5 is a sectional viev of a substrate vith drops formed in the center and at the edge thereof. Fig 6 is a graph showing a temperature change vith the tip of a thermocouple put close to the surface of a substrate. Fig. 7 is an enlarged view of the rear end of the thermocouple according to the present embodiment. DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION An embodiment of the present invention will subsequently be described. A substrate temperature measuring device 10 according to this embodiment is attached to part of the wall face of a growth chamber 1 through a high vacuum flange 11. The substrate temperature measuring device 10 comprises, as shown in Figs. 4 a and 4 b , a bellowo 12 extensively installed between a pair of high vacuum flanges 11, 11, an insulating hollow cylindrical tube 13 prepared fram PBN P rolytic Boron nitride or alumina and inserted into the bel aws 12, with the rear end supported by the high vacuum flange 11 outside the growth chamber through a spring having contraction and expansion properties and the front end made protrusible into the growth chamber through an opening ila of the high vacuui flange 11 outside the growth chamber, and a thermocouple 6 inserted into the insulating hollow cylindrical tube 13. The rear end of the thermocouple 6 is connected to thernoelectronic terminals 15, insulation shielded and vacuu sealed in the high vacuum flange 11 outside the growth chamber, whereas the front end thereof is protruded from the tip of the insulating hollow cylindrical tube 13 so as to measure the output generated in the thermocouple.MetalGa or In is bonded to a portion of the surface of the substrate 3 whose temperature is measured, the portion making contact with the thermocouple 6, and these metals are kept in a molten state, e.g., over 30 C for Ga and over 200t for In vhen the temperature of the substrate rises. The temperature of the substrate during its growth is normally at about 300 C. Because of surface tension, moreover, the metal is prevented from spreading over the surface of the substrate and continues to stick to part of the surface of the substrate as a drop 16. In the growth chamber 1 thus equipped vith the substrate temperature measuring device 10, the high vacuum flange 11 outside the growth chamber is first pulled in the direction opposite to the growth chamber as shown in Fig. 4 a to extend the bellows 12 vhen a thin film of desired composition is deposited on the substrate 3 so that the thermocouple may not intercept the molecular beam evaporated from an evaporating source cell 2. When the temperature of the substrate 3 is measured before the thin film is deposited, the high vacuum flange 11 outside the growth chamber is compressed in the direction of the growth chamber so as to compress the bellows 12 and the tip of the thermocouple 6 is caused to contact the surface of the substrate. After the thermocouple 6 contacts the surface of the substrate, the spring only is compressed even if the bellows 12 is further compressed because the extensible spring 17 is installed at the rear end of the thermocouple 6.Consequently, the contact force between the tip of the thermocouple 6 and the surface of the substrate 3 is kept roughly constant, thus nullifying the transforiation of and damage to the thermocouple 6 or cracking of the substrate 3 in question. Since the tip of the thermocouple 6 keeps contact with the surface of the substrate in such a state that the tip thereof is dipped into the molten metal drop 16, the effective contact area between the surface of the substrate and the tip of the thermocouple becomes larger than that according to the conventional method vithout using the molten metal drop.Accordingly, delicate fluctuation in the contact area resulting from repeated measurement could be reduced to the extent that it is negligible as compared vith the conventional methods. In consequence, an error produced by the repetition of temperature measurement could be reduced up to about O. 1C. Fig. 7 shovs an enlarged rear end of the thermocouple according to this embodiment. The V Re thermocouple 6 in a tantalum hollow cylinder 19 is electrically insulated by an insulating hollow cylinder 13 and two branch wires of V Re at the rear end of the therocouple are electrically connected to corresponding two thermocouple terminals 15 of the flange 11 through two holes made in the side of the tantalum hollow cylinder. A spiral spring 17 is connected to the rear end of the tantalum hollow cylinder and the rear end of the spring is further fixed to the flange 11.The two branch wires of V Re from the thermocouple terminals 15 up to the tantalum hollow cylinder are respectively protected by extremely thin PBN or alumina insulating tubes to prevent the V Re wires from electrically contacting the spring 17 and the bellows 12 as the bellows 12 contracts and expands. The tantalum hollow cylinder employed in this embodiment is 4 sm in outer diameter and 1 S long, whereas the spiral spring 17 is 0.5 mm 9 in diameter and about 5 ci long. As is obvious from the above description, the method and apparatus for measuring the temperature of a substrate have effects in 1 accurately measuring the temperature of the surface of a substrate on which an intended thin film is formed because the temperature is measured by the direct contact of a thermocouple with the surface of the substrate 2 making extremely smaller the difference in temperature than that of conventional temperature measuring methods between the tip of the thermocouple and the uppermost surface of the substrate 3 accurately rrsuring the temperature of the surface of the substrate without being affected by the thickness of tile substrate, the thickness and shape of a substrate holder 4 completely preventing the deformation of and damage to the tip of the thermocouple and the cracking of the substrate vhen they contact each other because a spring having contraction and expansion properties is installed at the rear end of the thermocouple 5 improving the reproducibility of temperature measurement because a molten petal drop is formed in the contact portion of the tip of the therbocouple and 6 measuring the temperature of the substrate on which a thin fili is formed by means of not simply molecular beam epitaxial growth but also others such as organic metal epitaxial growth, chemical vapor growth, cluster ion beam epitaxial growth, vacuum evaporation, etc.