# Removal of perfluoroisobutylene.

## Abstract
A process for converting toxic perfluoroisobutylene in a mixture of fluorine containing compounds into a relatively nontoxic ether which comprises contacting the mixture with a solution of methanol and a selected hydrogen halide.

## Claims
Claims 1. Process for removing perfluoroisobutylene from a mixture of fluorine containing compounds containing the same which comprises contacting the said mixture with a solution of hydrogen fluoride and or hydrogen chloride in methanol at a temperature and pressure at which the methanol solution is liquid. 2. The process of Claim 1 wherein the mixture of fluorine containing compounds is in the gaseous form during the said contact. 3. The process of Claim 1 or 2 wherein the solution is a solution of hydrogen chloride in methanol. 4. The process of Claim 1 or 2 wherein the solution is a solution of hydrogen fluoride in methanol. 5. The process of Claim 1 or 2 wherein the solution is a solution of hydrogen chloride and hydrogen fluoride in methanol. 6. The process of any of Claims 1 to 5 wherein the contact is carried out at a temperature of between 20 1000C, 7. The process of any of Claims 1 to 6 wherein the concentration of hydrogen fluoride and or hydrogen chloride in the said solution is between 1O 7 moles l. and 2 moles l.

## Description
TITLE REMOVAL OF PERFLUOROISOBUTYLENE FIELD OF THE INVENTION This invention relates to removal of perfluoroisobutylene from a mixture of fluorinecontaining compounds. BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION Formation of perfluoroisobutylene occurs under a variety of conditions for example, during heating of tetrafluoroethylene at 750 C or above, during pyrolysis of chlorodifluoromethane to produce tetrafluoroethylene and hexafluoropropylene as described in Halliwell U.S. Patent 3,306,940, during pyrolysis of other materials to make tetrafluoroethylene, such as pyrolysis of bromodifluoromethane described in Canadian patent 686,106 or tetrafluoromethane described in U.S. Patent 3,081,245 , or during pyrolysis of tetrafluoroethylene to make hexafluoropropylene described in U.S. 3,578,721 U.S. 3,873,630 and U.S. 2,785,138 . The perfluoroisobutylene so formed is separated from the desired products by distillation at superatmospheric pressure along with a number of other fluorine containing byproducts.Because of the toxicity of perfluoroisobutylene, i.e., its harmful effect on test animals, it is desirable to convert it to a less toxic material prior to disposal. Reaction of perfluoroisobutylene with aliphatic alcohols under neutral or slightly acidic conditions is known in the art, as evidenced byR. J. Koshar et al., JACS 79, 1741 1957 . However, the JACS article teaches that one alcohol, 2chloroethanol, suppressed completely the reaction due to the acidic nature of the alcohol, and that t butanol quickly ceased reacting probably because of the liberation of hydrogen fluoride .Thus, the conclusion drawn from the prior art is that the reaction of perfluoroisobutylene with aliphatic alcohols either was suppressed or soon ceased because of the presence of acidic conditions, and for this reason, removal of perfluoroisobutylene, especially from the by products obtained during manufacture of tetrafluoroethylene and hexafluoropropylene, has heretofore been carried out by contacting the perfluoroisobutylene with sodium hydroxide in aqueous methanol. However, the use of sodium hydroxide in aqueous methanol has several disadvantages, namely, it reacts with other fluoroolefins which may be desired products, such as hexafluoropropylene, and it reacts with HC1 and HF to form halide salts which foul the processing equipment and create waste disposal problems. Accordingly, it is desirable to develop a procedure for removing toxic perfluoroisobutylene from a mixture of fluorine containing compounds, especially compounds obtained as by products during manufacture of tetrafluoroethylene and hexafluoropropylene, that is free of the disadvantages discussed above. SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION In this invention, perfluoroisobutylene is converted to a less toxic ether by a process which comprises contacting a mixture of fluorine containing compounds which contains perfluoroisobutylene, with a solution of HF and or HC1 in methanol at a temperature and pressure at which the methanol solution is liquid. DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION The process of this invention is carried out by contacting perfluoroisobutylene in a mixture of fluorine containing compounds with the methanol solution. A convenient, and preferred, procedure is to pass the solution down a column while the mixture of fluorine containing compounds, in gaseous form, is passed up the column in countercurrent flow.Another procedure is to bubble the gaseous mixture through the solution. Still another procedure is to employ a closed vessel in a batch reaction. Contact time is not critical and depends on how much perfluoroisobutylene is desired to be removed from the gaseous mixture. The amount of the methanol that is employed is not critical, but to convert all the perfluoroisobutylene to the ether product, an excess of methanol over the amount of perfluoroisobutylene present should be employed. Temperature and pressure are not critical, provided the methanol solution is liquid. A convenient temperature range is 20 1000C at atmospheric pressure.The process may be carried out above or below atmospheric pressure, or, preferably, at atmospheric pressure. The reaction medium is acidic due to the formation of HF and or HCl by reaction of the methanol with the fluorine containing compounds and or becauseHF and or HC1 is present therein. The reaction medium remains acidic because HF and HC1 each forms a high boiling azeotrope with methanol. In general, the acid concentration of the methanol solution is over 10 7 moles liter, and usually is between 10 7 moles l and 2 moles l. The process may be carried out by batch or continuous procedures. The acidic methanol is ordinarily recycled in a continuous process. The ether products of the reaction are methyl ethers, namely CF3 2CHCF2OCH3 or CF3 2C CFOCH3, and can be isolated or vented. The ethers are much less toxic than perfluoroisobutylene. In the Examples which follow, High BoilingProduct Mixture HBPM from the pyrolysis of chlorodifluoromethane was employed. The HBPM is so named because it boils higher than hexafluoropropylene, the desired product of the pyrolysis. The HBPM is a mixture of saturated and unsaturated halocarbons and hydrohalocarbons containing perfluoroisobutylene. EXAMPLE 1 The following was charged to a 75 ml, dry ice cooled, stainless steel cylinder 20 ml 30g HBPM containing about 7 mole perfluoroisobutylene 19 ml 15g methanol containing 4.1 m l HF which resulted in a methanol concentra tion of 12 moles liter and an HF concentra tion of 2 moles liter . The cylinder was then shaken and immersed in a water bath initially at 300 to warm it to about 220C at equilibrium. The concentration of perfluoroisobutylene PFIB was measured by gas chromatograph at the times indicated below 15 min after immersion 49 of original PFIB was present 47 min after immersion 9.2 of original PFIB was present 80 min after immersion 2.4 of original PFIB was present. EXAMPLE 2 Through a 2.2 cm diameter by 30 cm scrubbing column packed with 4.8 mm stainless steelHeli pak from Podbelniak Inc. was passed HBPM gas containing about 10 mole perfluoroisobutylene at a rate of 160 ml min. A scrubbing solution of methanol containing 12 mole liter HC1 was continuously recycled through the column. The methanol solution was continuously recycled at 250C. The concentration of perfluoroisobutylene PFIB in the gas was measured at the entrance and at the exit of the column by gas chromatography. The concentration of PFIB present in the gas at exit was only 1.1 of the amount present in the gas introduced into the column.