# Diagnostic assay bead dispenser.

## Abstract
An apparatus is provided for dispensing into containers beads suitable for diagnostic assays. A trigger arrangement 14 having a first 31 and a second 30 gate member controls the dispensing of beads 21 .

## Claims
1. An apparatus useful for dispensing diagnostic assay beads, which comprises in combination a body having a cavity, a bead chamber within said cavity, a barrel member having a first end and a second end, said barrel member defining a passage, said first end mounted within said cavity and in communication with said bead chamber, said second end extending outwardly from said body and including an orifice a dispensing member comprising a first gate member and a second gate member, said first gate member positioned apart from said second gate member to allow a single bead to occupy the space between said first gate member and said second gate member a trigger member projecting form said body and operatively connected to said body, said trigger member operatively connected to said dispensing member, said trigger member having a first trigger position and a second trigger position wherein when said trigger member is in said first trigger position said first gate member does not impede the travel of beads within said barrel member toward said orifice and said second gate member impedes the travel of beads within said barrel member toward said orifice and wherein when said trigger member is in said second trigger position said first gate member impedes the travel of beads within said barrel member toward said orifice and said second gate member does not impede the travel of beads within said barrel member toward said orifice biasing means biasing said trigger member toward said first trigger position.

## Description
The present invention relates to dispensers used for dispensing into containers diagnostic assay beads suitable for diagnostic or immunologic assays. Certain immunologic and diagnostic assays require the use of solid supports hereinafter beads upon which certain chemical and or biochemical reactions take place. Beads can be fashioned out of glass, metal or plastics. Prior to the present invention, the dispensing of beads into reaction vessels was accomplished either by individually ladling the beads from a source contain er to the reaction vessel by use of forceps or similar devices. Although effective, this process is slow and time consuming. Difiglio, Accordingly, the present invention provides a lightweight hand held apparatus for dispensing beads used as solid supports in immunologic diagnostic assays. In particular, the present invention is directed to an apparatus for individually dispensing into reaction vessels beads used as solid supports in immunologic diagnostic assays. To this end, an appara tus having a bead container and a trigger mechanism wherein a trigger member operatively connected to a first gate member and a second gate member allows beads to be dispensed from the bead container one at a time. More particularly there is provided an appara tus useful for dispensing diagnostic assay beads, which comprises in combination a body having a cavity, a bead chamber within said cavity, a barrel member having a first end and a second end, said barrel member defining a passage, said first end mounted within said cavity and in communication with said bead chamber, said second end extending outwardly from said body and including an orifice a dispensing member comprising a first gate member and a second gate member, said first gate member positioned apart from said second gate member to allow a single bead to occupy the space between said first gate member and said second gate member a trigger member projecting form said body and operatively connected to said body, said trigger member operatively connected to said dispensing member, said trigger member having a first trigger position and a second trigger position wherein when said trigger member is in said first trigger position said first gate member does not impede the travel of beads within said barrel member toward said orifice and said second gate member impedes the travel of beads within said barrel member toward said orifice and wherein when said trigger member is in said second trigger position said first gate member impedes the travel of beads within said barrel member toward said orifice and said second gate member does not impede the travel of beads within said barrel member toward said orifice biasing means biasing said trigger member toward said first trigger position. Accordingly, the present invention provides a novel apparatus for dispensing beads used as solid supports in immunologic diagnostic assays. Other details and advantages will appear in the discussion below. The diagnostic assay bead dispenser has been designed to be a lightweight apparatus for individually dispensing into reaction vessels single beads used as solid supports for immunologic diagnostic assays. The body of the bead dispenser may be fashioned from injec tion molded synthetic thermoplastics. Turning in detail to the drawings, Fig. 1 illustrates a hand held diagnostic bead dispenser 10 hereinafter referred to as bead dispenser positioned over a reaction vessel 19 into which a bead may be dispensed. As can be seen in the Figures, a single bead 21 is dispensed by actuation of trigger member 14 which is pivotally attached to the body at a pivot point 27. The bead is released into barrel member 16, which is curved so as to point generally downward, and drops out of the flared orifice 17 through the outboard end 18 of the barrel member and into reaction vessel 19. The body 10 of the bead dispenser has a cavity and includes a handle shaped portion 20 and a bead chamber 11. The bead chamber stores a supply of beads 21 to be dispensed. Beads are introduced into the bead chamber through an opening in the top 12 of the bead chamber. A removable cap 28 is provided for closing the opening in the top of the bead chamber. The bead chamber has a funnel shaped portion 22 for aiding the flow of beads to the dispensing mechanism illustrated in detail in Fig. 4. The entire device may be made wholly of plastic. In the preferred embodiment, a translucent plastic is used for the body of the bead dispenser while the barrel member 16 is made of transparent plastic. Cut outs 13 are provided in the body of the bead dis penser as an aid to viewing beads in the vicinity of the dispensing mechanism. In many applications, beads to be dispensed come packed in a liquid solution. A drainage chamber 33 is provided within the handle 20 of the bead dispenser below and in communication with the bead chamber 11 to act as an area into which excess liquid solution may flow and be stored. A drain plug 15 is provided in the bottom of the drainage chamber to facilitate the removal of liquid solution from the bead dispenser. Figure 3 illustrates the bead dispenser when the trigger member 14 is in the first trigger position. Rigidly attached to the trigger member is a dispensing member 35 which comprises a first gate member 31 and a second gate member 30. When the trigger member is in the first trigger position as in Fig. 3, the second gate member 30 impedes the travel of beads 21 down the barrel member 16 toward the outboard end 18 of the barrel member. When the trigger member is in the first trigger position, the first gate member 31 is withdrawn from the barrel and does not impede the travel of beads down the barrel member toward the outboard end 18 of the barrel member. When, as in Fig. 4, the trigger member is in the second trigger position, the first gate member 31 is moved into position to impede the travel of beads down the barrel member toward the outboard end 18 of the barrel member and the second gate member 30 is withdrawn from the barrel member releasing any bead that was located between the first gate member and the second gate member so that it can then travel down the tube toward the outboard end 18 of the barrel member for release into the reaction vessel 19. Biasing is applied to return the trigger member to the first trigger position. One end of a biasing member 24 rests slidably against a raised peg 32 which is connected rigidly to trigger member 14. The other end of the biasing member is attached rigidly to the body. The trigger member 14 is attached rigidly to guide member 34. Guide member 34 has a guide slot 26. Beads from the bead chamber flow down toward the guide slot and are lined up in the guide slot for dispensing. Beads flow from the position in the guide slot closest to the first gate member 31 into the inboard end 29 of the barrel member. Beads not lined up in the guide slot are prevented from blocking the entrance to the barrel member by agitator member 25 which extends into the bead chamber, is attached rigidly to the guide member and which, when raised by actuating of the trigger member acts to push excess beads up in the bead chamber and away from the opening 29 thus allowing correctly aligned beads from the guide slot to flow into the barrel member. Figure 5 shows a generally octagonally cross sectioned barrel member 16 used to minimize the contact area of the bead 21 with the inside of the barrel member in order to facilitate the flow of beads down the barrel. Thus, a diagnostic bead dispenser is disclosed which is useful for dispensing beads into reaction vessels. While embodiments and applications of this invention have been shown and described, it would be apparent to those skilled in the art that many more modifications are possible without departing from the spirit of the invention. The description, therefore, is provided to illustrate the invention and should not be construed to be limiting.