# A hide pulling process and pulsator unit therefor.

## Abstract
A hide pulling process in which a carcass A is supported and the hide mechanically pulled therefrom. During the process of pulling the hide from the carcass A the carcass A is contacted by a pair of spaced apart electrodes 10, 11 . Whilst the electrodes 10, 11 are in contact with the carcass A a pulsed electric current is passed therebetween. In a preferred form of the invention the pulsed electric current lies in the range of 5 30 pulses per second. The alternate pulses of the pulsed current can be reversed in polarity.

## Claims
1. A hide pulling process in which a carcass A is supported and the hide mechanically pulled therefrom, said carcass A being contacted during the pulling of the hide by a pair of spaced apart electrodes 10,11 characterised in that a pulsed electric current is passed between the electrodes. 2. A hide pulling process according to Claim 1, wherein the pulsed electric current lies in the range of 530 pulses per second. 3. A hide pulling process according to Claim 1 or 2, wherein alternate pulses of the current are reversed in polarity. 4. A hide pulling process according to Claim 3, wherein the pulsed current is of substantially 14.28 pulses per second and is derived from a 50 Hz mains supply. 5. A hide pulling process according to Claim 3, wherein the pulsed current is of substantianny 17.14 pulses per second and is derived from a 60 Hz mains supply. 6. A hide pulling process according to Claim 1 or 2, wherein pulses of the mains supply are counted and predetermined half waves are selected and passed to said electrodes. 7. In a hide pulling process in which a carcass is supported and the hide mechanically pulled therefrom, said carcass A being contacted during the pulling of the hide by a pair of spaced apart electrodes 10,11 era pulsator unit supplying a pulsed electric current to said electrodes. 8. A pulsator unit as claimed in Claim 7, wherein the pulsator consists of a switching circuit to control high input voltage, said switching circuit being coupled to said electrodes 10,11 and a low voltage timing circuit which supplies gate trigger pulses to a switching device S1 in said high voltage switching circuit. 9. A pulsator unit as claimed in Claim 8, wherein said switching device S1 is a triac coupled in series with a mains transformer T1 and said electrodes 10,ll . 10. A pulsator unit as claimed in Claim 8 or 9, wherein the timing circuit comprises a transformer T2 coupled to the mains supply, rectifier means B2 which provides half wave pulses, means B1 to synchronize said half wave pulses with said mains supply, counter means which counts a predetermined number of said half wave pulses, a discharge capacitor C8 coupled to said transformer T2 via rectifier means B2 , driver means which passes the pulses derived from said counter means to a transistor Tr2 to discharge said discharge capacitor C8 through a transformer T3 coupled in parallel to said capacitor C8 to supply said gate trigger pulses to said switching means S1 of said switching circuit. 11. A hide pulling process substantially as herein described. 12. In a hide pulling a pulsator unit substantially as herein described with reference to the accompanying drawing.

## Description
IMPR OVEMENTS IN AND RELATING TO HIDE PULLING PROSSES This invention relates to a hide pulling process where the hide of livestock carcasses such as beef, cows, steers, calves, sheep, hogs and the like are mechanically removed.More particularly the invention relates to a process which involves the use of electrical stimulation of a carcass during the mechanical removal of the hide therefrom. Various mechanical devices have been developed to perform the hide removal process which has traditionally been accomplished manually. During such mechanical hide removal the hide is pulled from the carcass and forces are set up which are sufficient to be able to break the back of the carcass by dislocation of the vertebrae. As a result the commercial value of the carcass is decreased. To overcome this problem a method of electrical stimulation of the muscles of the carcass has been devised so that the carcass becomes substantially rigid and can withstand the forces set up during at least part of hide pulling process. According to this process electrodes are inserted into the carcass at spaced apart locations during the pulling procedure. See New Zealand patent Specification No 157112 .The use of force transducers and strain gauges during such a hide pulling process reveals that the duration of forces sufficient to dislocate the back of the carcass is much longer than the tensioning which is afforded by the use of 50 60 Hz or even direct current stimulation of the muscles. As a result, even when using 50 Hz or 60 Hz current, the mechanical pulling of the hide can result in a proportion of carcasses having dislocated vertebrae. The present invention has as its object to provide an improved hide pulling process wherein the incidence of carcass damage by having dislocated vertebrae as a result of the pulling process is minimized. This object is achieved by employing a pulsed stimulation current. This produces the same tension in the muscles as known processes, but gives a four to five fold increase in the duration for which the tension is maintained. This allows greater flexibility in the pulling operation and virtually eliminates broken or dislocated vertebrae. The invention thus broadly provides a hide pulling process which includes the step of contacting the carcass with a pair of spaced apart electrodes and passing a pulsed electric current between the electrodes. In a preferred form the pulsed electric current lies in the range of 5r30 pulses per second with alternate pulses being reversed in polarity. The pulsed current can be of substantially 14.28 pulses per second and is derived from a 50 Hz mains supply or 17.14 pulses per second from a 60Hz mains supply. To more fully describe the invention reference will be made to the accompanying drawing which is a .circuit diagram of a pulsation unit which is suitable for use in the process according to the invention. With the pulsator unit represented in the drawing the pulses of the supply are counted and predetermined half waves are selected and switched to the output. The selection of every seventh half wave from a 50 Hz mains supply gives a frequency of 14.28 pulses per second. This has been shown to give excellent results with a minimum number of broken backs. The alternate pulses preferably reverse in polarity to avoid polarization and transformer core saturation. In addition heating and cooking problems at the points at which the electrodes are inserted into the carcass are avoided.However, unidirectional pulses are almost equally sufficient in tensioning the muscles. The pulsator unit essentially consists of two parts which are firstly a switching circuit to control the high voltage and secondly a low voltage timing circuit.The Switching Circuit. Half wave pulses from the 180 volt transformer T1 are allowed to flow through the carcass A via electrodes 10 and 11 each time the Triac S1 solid state a.c. switch is turned on by gate trigger pulses from the timing circuit.The Triac S1 automatically turns itself off at the end of each half wave when the voltage across it is reversed. Gate trigger pulses arrive from the timing circuit at the beginning of every seventh half wave, passing alternating pulses at 14.28 pulses per second through the carcass.The Timing Circuit. Transformer T2 through recifier B2 supplies unfiltered d.c. at 30 volts to the discharge capacitor C8, and 15 volts smoothed d.c. to drive the integrated circuits. Recifier B provides 30 V peak half wave pulses for the timing circuit at 100 Hz, TP1 test point 1 in synchronization with the mains supply. These pulses are clipped at 15 volts by the zener diode Z1, TP2 and buffered against line noise by the transitor Tr before being passed to the monostable at TP3.This first monostable squares the 100 Hz pulses for the 4017 counter and allows for any difference in phase shift between transformer T1 and transformer T2. The 4017 counter is wired to reset itself to zero after seven counts, effectively dividing the incoming 100 Hz pulses at TP4 by seven, giving pulses at 14.28 Hz at TP5.These pulses are reduced in width by the second monostable CD4098 to control the time capacitor C8 remains discharged.The pulses from the monostable pass through a buffer driver 4050 and switch on transistor Tr2 for approximately 2 m secs, discharging the capacitor C8 through the primary of the transformer T3. This gives secondary pulses to the gate of the Triac, switching the Triac on at the beginning of every 7th half cycle of the voltage from stimulation transformer T1. . The 14.28 pulses per second frequency is not the only one which can be employed with success. The frequency of the pulses can lie in the range of 5 to 30 pulses per second.The 14.28 pulses per second frequency is preferred as it is simply derived from 50 Hz main supply by selecting every seventh pulse. Other systems can be used with effect, for example advantages can occur from using a potential difference of 180V with the pulse waveform. The pulsed current produces the required tension in the carcass muscles but provides an increase over the duration for which tension is maintained by conventional methods.This increase is in the order of four to five times the duration. As a result of the increased duration of the carcass stiffness the incidence of dislocated or broken vertebrae is reduced considerably. The process of this. invention can be employed with a wide variety of mechanical hide removal devices and methods with minimum interference. The following example illustrates the effectiveness of the present invention when used in the mechanical hide pulling of beef carcasses. A number of beef carcasses had the hides pulled therefrom by a mechanical puller in the absence of any electrical stimulation of the muscles. Approximately 72 of the carcasses revealed dislocated vertebrae, A further batch of carcasses then had their hides removed but with 180V 50 Hz stimulation to stiffen the backs during hide removal. The number of carcasses having dislocated vertebrae was reduced to 25 . Finally a batch of carcasses had the hides stripped therefrom and were processed according to the invention by using a pulsed current at 14.28 pulses per second of alternating waveform The incidence of dislocated vertebrae was less than 0.05 .