# Semiconductor device and circuit.

## Abstract
A semiconductor device includes a single crystal semiconductor material 14 having an N conductivity type region 10 and a P conductivity type region 12 which are electrically interconnected by a layer 18 of said semiconductor material in polycrystalline form doped to make an electrical contact with the N type region 10 , a layer 20 of a combination of said semiconductor material and a refractory metal and a layer 24 of said semiconductor material in polycrystalline form doped to form an electrical contact with the P type region 12 .

## Claims
Claims 1. A semiconductor device incLuding a first single crystal semiconductor region 148, FIG. 5 of one conductivity type and a second single crystal semiconductor region 160 of the opposite conductivity type, said first and second regions 148, 160 being electrically joined by an interconnection, characterized in that said interconnection comprises a first layer 156 forming an electrical contact to said first region 148 and a second layer 158 interconnecting said first layer 156 and said second region 160 , said second layer 158 being comprised of semiconductor material of said opposite conductivity type in polycrystalline form. 2. A semiconductor device as claimed in claim 1, wherein said first layer 156 is comprised of a layer of semiconductor material of said one conductivity type in polycrystalline form. 3. A semiconductor device as claimed in claim 2, wherein the semiconductor material is silicon and said first and second layers 156, 158 are doped to a level in excess of 10 3 impurities cm 4. A semiconductor device as claimed in claim 1, wherein said first layer 156 is comprised of a layer of a metal silicide. 5. A semiconductor device as claimed in claim 1, wherein said first layer 156 is comprised of a layer of a combination of the semiconductor material and a refractory metal. 6. A semiconductor device as claimed in claims 4 or 5, wherein an oxide insulation layer is formed over both said first and second layers 156, 158 . 7. A semiconductor device as claimed in claim 2, wherein an intermediate layer of metal silicide electrically connects said first and second layers. 8. A semiconductor device as claimed in claims 4 or 7, wherein said metal silicide is a silicide of a refractory metal. 9. A semiconductor device as claimed in claim 2, wherein an intermediate layer of a combination of the semiconductor material and a refractory metal electrically connects said first and second layers. 10. A semiconductor device as claimed in any previous claims, wherein at least one of said first and second regions 148, 160 is generated by diffusion of impurities from the polycristalline semiconductor layer in contact therewith. 11. A semiconductor circuit including a single crystal semiconductor material 118, FIG. 4 having two transistors T1, T2 formed therein, one transistor T1 having a region 122 of one conductivity type and the other transistor T2 having a region 130 of the opposite conductivity type, characterized in that said regions 132, 130 are electrically interconnected by interconnection layers 140, 142, 144 as defined by the characterizing part of claim 1 and any of claims 2 through 10. 12. A semiconductor carcuit including a single crystal semiconductor material 102, FIG. 3B having two transiators T1, T2 formed therein, said transistors having cross coupled base and collector regions B1 C2, B2 C1 and load devices connected thereto, characterized in that said cross coupling is provided by interconnection layers 112, 116, 114 as defined by the characterizing part of claim 1 and any of claims 2 through 10. 13. A semiconductor circuit as claimed in claim 12, wherein said load devices are injector transistors connected to said base regions.

## Description
Semiconductor device and circuit The invention relates to a semiconductor device and circuit including electrical interconnection layers between semiconductor regions of opposite conductivity types.In the semiconductor art, many schemes are known for interconnecting the various regions of a semiconductor device. These regions include those having P type conductivity and also those having N type conductivity.Generally, it has been quite simple to interconnect semiconductor regions of the same conductivity type, as for example by using a doped polycrystalline material comprised of the same semiconductor as is used to make the device itself. For example, in the case of a silicon semiconductor device having a plurality of N type regions which must be interconnected, a common interconnec tion is the use of N doped polysilicon It is also known to use doped polysilicon to make electrical contacts to N and P regions US patent 3806361 . Another interconnect material which has been used is a metal silicide, such as PtSi, which is known as an ohmic contact to P and N semiconductor regions US patent 3777364 , and as an interconnect material between regions of the same conductivity type.In the semiconductor art, the problem of making electrical interconnections between regions Slaving opposite conductivity type has been instead a difficult one. Typically, metal lines are used to provide ohmic electrical interconnections between semiconductor regions of opposite conductivity types. However, the use of such metal interconnections reduces the density of arrays of such devices and leads to larger capacitances due to the large area required for each device cell. As an example, a static memory cell comprising bipolar transistors requires that electri cal interconnections be made between N and P type regions of the circuit. In the past, these interconnections have been made by overlying metal lines, and the circuits could not be made small and fast.In the prior art, metal silicides have also been used with polysilicon layers in order to reduce the resistance of the polysilicon layer. However, polysilicon has not been used or suggested for use in circuits utilizing bipolar devices where inter connections have to be made between regions of the opposite conductivity type. Thus, prior to the present invention, static memory arrays of bipolar transistors have not been produced which have sufficient commercial advantage to be competitive with other types of static memory cells.The above drawbacks are remedied by the invention which provides an electrical interconnection between opposite conductivity type regions of a semiconductor without the use of metal interconnection lines.According to the invention, at least two layers are required between the opposite conductivity type regions of the semiconductor material. One of these layers is a layer of said semiconductor material in polycrystalline form contacting a region of one conductivity type and doped to form an electrical contact therewith.The other layer is in contact with said one layer of polycrystalline semiconductor material and with the region of the other conductivity type and is such as to form an electrical contact with said region of the other conductivity type. In one embodiment said other layer is comprised of a layer of the semiconductor material in polycrystalline form having said other conductivity type. In other embodiments, said other layer is comprised of a lay er of a metal silicide or a layer of a combination, such as a com pound, of the semiconductor material with a refractory metal.In a further embodiment, two semiconductor layers in polycrystalline form forming electrical contacts with the opposite conductivity type regions are electrically connected by an intermediate layer of a metal silicide or of a combination for the semiconductor material with a refractory metal.The polysilicon layers can have metal silicide thereover in order to reduce the resistance of the polysilicon lines. It is known in the art that a metal silicide on polysilicon will reduce the resis tivity of the polysilicon line. However, in the practice of the present invention, the metal silicide can be formed only in the re gion where the N and P type polysilicon layers are to be electrically joined rather than being formed over the entire length of the polysilicon.When the structure is later oxidized to form an insulation layer before additional metal lines are deposited, the polysilicon layer replaces any silicon removed from the silicide layer during the oxide growth step. This ensures that the silicide layer integrity remains throughout the circuit fabrication steps.The advantages offered by the invention are that some metal interconnection lines can be eliminated in order to reduce the cell size of the devices in semiconductor circuits and the capacitances with in the circuit. The interconnection layers can be defined with bet ter resolution, for the same lithographic technique, than metal in terconnection lines. A reduced size static memory cell using two bipolar transistors can be obtained.Preferred embodiments of the invention are described in detail below with reference to the attached drawings, in which FIG. 1A illustrates an interconnection between N and P regions of a semiconductor, using layers of doped polys L l con and a refractory metal silicide.FIG. 1B shows the interconnection of P and N type semiconductor regions where impurities from the N and P polysilicon layers are used to change conductivity type of thin layers of P and N type single crystal material.FIG. 1C shows the interconnection of P and N type semiconductor regions where impurities from the N polysilicon layer are used to change the conductivity type of a thin layer of P type single crystal material.FIG. 2A is a side elevation view of a known merged transistor logic MTL static memory cell, while FIG. 2B is a top view of this memory cell. FIG. 2C is a schematic electrical diagram of the static memory cell.FIGS. 3A and 3B illustrate the improvement in cell size for the static memory cell of FIG. 2C, when the interconnection scheme of the invention is used. In particular, FIG. 3A shows a top view of the improved memory cell, while FIG. 3B shows a side elevation view of this memory cell.FIG. 4 illustrates the application of the present interconnection scheme in a complementary metal oxide silicon CMOS circuit.FIG. 5 illustrateg an electricaL interconneoction between opposite semiconductor type regions, using only highly doped P type polysilicon and highly doped N type polysilicon. In FIG. 1A, it is desired to provide an adequate electrical interconnection between N type region 10 and P type region 12, both of which are located in a body of semiconductor material 14.In one embodiment, semiconductor 14 can be single crystal silicon. As is well known in the art, the semiconductor material can be doped to provide N and P type regions therein. In this structure, oxide regions 16 separate opposite conductivity regions 10 and 12 and are produced by conventional techniques. For example, semiconductor wafer 14 can be etched and silicon oxide can be deposited or grown in the etched grooves to form the oxide areas 16.An adequate electrical interconnection is one in which the contact resistance is sufficiently low to not adversely affect circuit operations, i.e., not introduce an adversely high voltage drop. Of course, this varies depending on the circuit application. As an example, memory circuits require less current and can operate successfully even if the contact resistance is relatively high, while most logic circuits require higher currents and smaller contact resistances. A first polysilicon layer 18, having N type conductivity, is then blanket deposited and later delineated by a mask not shown to contact N region 10. Polysilicon layer 18 is quite heavily doped, as indicated by the designation N polyfi, and typically has a doping of 1019 1021 polyfi, impurities cm . Layer 18 can be formed by chemical vapor deposition CVD where the dopants are typical ly either phosphorus or arsenic.After the polysilicon layer 18 is doped, a refractory metal silicide layer 20 is formed an polysilicon layer 18. The same masking step is used to. delineate both layer 20 and layer 18. The silicide layer 20 is a refractory metai silicon compound, where the refractory metal is, for example, tungsten, molyb denum, tantalum, etc. The choice of a refractory metal is important if the metal silicide must be able to withstand the high temperatures required in later processing steps, as when silicon oxide layers are grown or deposited by CVD.Metal silicide layer 20 can be provided by sputtering from a suitable target of silicide, or can be provided by coevaporation of the refractory metal and silicon.After formation of silicide layer 20, an electrical insulating layer 22, such as silicon oxide, is provided over layer 20 and over other portions of semiconductor wafer 14. Contact openings through that insulating layer 22 to the silicide layer 20 and the P region 12 are formed by means of a mask. A P type polysilicon layer 24 is then formed by CVD onto P type region 12, silicon oxide layer 22, and metal silicide layer 20. The doping of layer 24 is at a similar concentration to that of layer 18, and is typically 3 is typically 1019 2021 impurities cm . A suitable dopant to pro vide P type polysilicon is boron. After formation of layer 24, another silicon oxide layer 26 is provided for electrical insulation between the polysilicon layer 24 and any metallic interconnection lines which must then be deposited.Silicon oxide layers 22 and 26 can either be grown onto the underlying polysilicon and silicide layers, or can be evaporated onto these layers.In the practice of this invention, the highly doped polysilicon layers 18 and 24 are used to make electrical contacts to semicon ductor regions 10 and 12 respectively. The interconnection between the opposite conductivity type polysilicon layers is provided by the refractory metal silicide 20. Here, the interconnection lines are provided by the polysilicon layers which often can be made smaller than metal lines for the same lithographic technique. As will be seen more clearly with respect to the circuit of FIGS. 2A 2C, this feature can be used to provide very dense semiconductor circuitry in which opposite conductivity types have to be interconnected.Another advantage to the present technique is that oxide insulation layers, such as layers 22 and 26, can be easily grown or deposited onto polysilicon layers or silicide layers. Since only one level of metallization may be required, only a minimum number of processing steps is required. In addition, the structure does not suffer adverse effects when the oxide layers 22 and 26 are formed. Still further, the polysilicon layers provide silicon to the silicide layer 20 in order to replenish any silicon removed therefrom during growth of the silicon oxide layer 22.This preserves the integrity of layer 20 and ensures that a good electrical interconnection is made between N type polysilicon layer 18 and P type polysilicon layer 24.FIG. 1B shows a variation of the structure of FIG. 1A, where N type polysilicon can be formed on a P type semiconductor region and where P type polysilicon can be formed on an N type semiconductor region. In more detail, a semiconductor wafer 28 of N type conductivity has a P type region 30 therein, and an N region 32. Silicon oxide regions 34 are buried in semiconductor 28.After suitable masking, N polysilicon layer 36 is formed over P type region 30. Impurities from the N type polysilicon layer 36 diffuse into the top surface of P type region 30, to create an region 38 therein. Thus, an electrical contact is made by polysilicon layer 36 to N layer 38 located on P type region 30. A refractory metal silicide layer 40 is then formed on polysilicon layer 36, by the processes described witk respect to FIG. 1A.After this, a silicon oxide layer 42 is formed over silicide layer 40 and over those portions of the semiconductor substrate 28 where P type polysilicon is not desired.A P type layer of polysilicon 44 is then formed over insulating layer 42, silicide layer 40, and the exposed portions of semiconductor 28 and buried oxide regions 34. In an analogous manner described with respect to the formation of layers 36 and 38, impurities from the P polysilicon layer 44 diffuse into N type region 32 to create a thin P layer 46. An electrical contact exists between polysilicon layer 44 and layer 46.Another silicon oxide layer 48 is formed over the P polysilicon layer 44 and is used to electrically insulate the polysilicon layer from any required overlying metal interconnection lines.In the embodiment of FIG. 1B, the process steps used to form the various layers can be the same as those described with respect to FIG. IA, and the doping levels of these layers are those given in the description of FIG. 1A.FIG. 1C shows an embodiment in which a P type polysilicon layer contacts a single crystal P type region, and in which an N type polysilicon layer is used to contact an N semiconductor region located over a P type region.In more detail, an N type semiconductor wafer 50 has buried oxide regions 52 therein. Semiconductor 50, typically of silicon, has P type regions 54 and 56 in its top surface. an N type polysilicon layer 58 is formed ovar P type region 54. impurities from layer 58 diffuse into region 54 to create a thin surface layer 60 having N conductivity type.Refractory metal silicide layer 62 is formed over polysilicon layer 58, and is used to provide electrical connection to a P polycrystalline layer 64. Layer 64 is deposited through a layer 66 of silicon oxide, and makes electrical contact with P type region 56. In order to provide electrical isolation between the polysilicon lines and any required metal lines, silicon oxide layer 68 is formed over polysilicon layer 64.The interconnection scheme illustrated in FIGS. 1A 1C can be used to provide more dense semiconductor circuits in those situa tions where opposite conductivity type semiconductor regions have to be electrically connected. One such example is represented by the circuit of FIG. 2C. A prior art technique for forming the circuit of FIG. 2C is shown in FIGS. 2A and 23. FIGS.3A and 3B illustrate an application of the present interconnection scheme for fabrication of the circuit of FIG. 2C. As will be apparent, a reduction in cell size can be achieved when this interconnection scheme is used. In more detail, the circuit of FIG. 2C illustrates a conventionally known static MTL i.e., IêL memory cell. In this illustration, two cross coupled NPN transistors TI and T2 are provided with current injectors I1 and I2. Current injectors I1 and I2 are part of PNP transistors which are used to force current into the base regions of transistors T1 and T2. In a more general sense, the PNP injectors are examples of load devices including resistors, etc. which can be connected to transistors T1 and T2.Transistors T1 and T2 share the same emitter, which can be a blanket N region in a wafer of semiconductor material. The base and collector regions of these transistors are separate from one another and are designated B1, B2, C1, and C2, respectively.A word line 70 is provided which is typically formed as an N buried layer in the semiconductor wafer. Bit lines 84 and 94 are provided for electrical connection to current injectors I1 and I2.The operation of the static memory cell of FIG. 2C is well known in the art and will not be described here. A prior art structure and fabrication of a semiconductor wafer to provide the circuit of FIG. 2C will be described with respect to FIGS 2A and 2B. For additional information, reference is made to anIBM Technical Disclosure Bulletin, Vol. 21, No. 1, June 1978, at pages 231, 232.FIG. 2A is a side elevation view of the circuit shown as a top view in FIG. 2B, taken along the line 2A 2A. Only injector I1 and transistor T1 are shown in FIG. 2A. This circuit is formed in a wafer of semiconductor material 72 including N emitter E region 74. Typically the emitter region 74 is doped to a level of approximately 10 impurities As with the other structures described previously, buried electrical insulation regions 76 typically silicon oxide are provided in semiconductor material 72. A P type region 78 and another P type region 80 are formed in the top surface of semiconductor 72. Additionally, an N region 82 is formed in a portion of the top surface of region 80.Metal contacts 84, 86, and 88 are provided to regions 78, 80, and 82 respectively, In addition to providing ohmic contacts to these regions, metal lines 86 and 88 provide intercon nection lines between opposite conductivity types of the transistors T1 and T2, and metal lines 84 and 94 , forming the bit lines,provide interconnections between regions having the same conductivity type.P type regions 78 and 80 have approximately the same doping 1019 3 level, being about 10 impurities cm . N region 82 has a do ping level of approximately 10 20 impurities cm . In addition, the small N type region 90 located between regions 78 and 80 has a doping level of approximately 1016 1017 impurities cm . Also, the narrow P type region 92, located below N region 82, has a doping level of approximately 10 impurities cm . The injector I1 is the emitter of a lateral PNP transistor comprising regions 78, 90, and 80. Transistor T1 is an NPN transistor comprising N emitter region 74, P type base region 92, andN region 82. The base contact is B1 and the collector contact is C1.As is apparent from FIG. 2B, the transistors T1 and T2 are located one behind the other so that only transistor T1 is shown inFIG. 2A. The base and collector contacts B1, C1, and C2, are indicated in FIG. 2B. In a similar manner, the injectors I1 and I2 are also indicated.In FIG. 2B, the interconnection lines providing the interconnections between the injectors and the cross coupling of the transistors T1 and T2 are metallic lines. Specifically, these are aluminum or aluminum copper lines 84, 86, and 88. Bit line 94 is a metal line to another injector I2 not shown in FIG. 2A.As is apparent from FIG. 2B, the cell dimension in the x direction is 8 units wide while the cell dimension in the y direction is 4 units. Thus, the area of this MTL memory cell design is 32 units.Figures 3A and 3B illustrate a circuit fabrication layout which uses the present interconnection scheme to provide the circuit of FIG. 2C.FIG. 3A is a top view of a circuit layout for providing the tran sistors T1 and T2, as well as the injectors I1 and I2 of FIG.2C. Using this fabrication technique, only two metal lines 96 and 98 are required along the y direction of the memory cell, in contrast with the four metal lines which were required in the strut ture of FIGS. 2A and 2B. The base collector cross connections are now provided by doped polysilicon layers rather than by metal lines. As will be readily apparent from an inspection of the drawings, the cell size in the x direction is 4 units while the cell size in the y direction is now 5 units. This means that the area of the memory cell is 20 units, which is a significant reduction with respect to the memory cell of the prior art FIGS.2A and 2B .In FIG. 3B, an N region 100 serves as a buried emitter in a body of semiconductor material generally designated 102. Oxide regions 104 provide electrical isolation. A P type region 106 serves as the base region for transistor T1 while N region 108, located on the top surface of P type region 110, serves as the collector of transistor T2.In this fabrication layout, P type region 106 also serves as the collector of the PNP transistor with injector II, while P type region 110 serves as the collector of the PNP transistor with injector I2. The doping levels of the emitter, base, and collector regions of transistors T1, T2, and of transistors with injectors 11 and I2 are the same as those described with respect to FIG. 2A.A P polysilicon layer 112 makes electrical contact to P type region 106, while an N polysilicon layer 114 makes electrical contact to N collector region 108. A refractory metal silicide layer 116 provides electrical connection between the polysilicon layers 112 and 114. The doping ranges of polysilicon layers 112 and 114 are typically the same as those described earlier.In the present fabrication layout, the base collector cross connections are provided by the polysilicon layer 114. While only one such layer 114 is shown in FIG. 3B, it is understood that there is another such layer, as indicated by line 114 in FIG. 3A, connecting base B2 and collector C1. In FIG. 3A, the injectors I1 and I2 are now located internal to the structure comprising transistors T1 and T2, which are different positions than they occupied in the layout of FIG. 2B.This is due to the use of the polysilicon cross connection lines, which allow a favorable placement of the injectors with respect to the transistors T1 and T2.The current carrying conductors 96 and 98 forming the bit lines in FIG. 3A are located over the structure indicated in cross section in FIG. 3B. A layer of silicon oxide is grown over the underlying polysilicon and silicide lines prior to formation of the metal conductors 96 and 98.The use of polysilicon for the cross coupling interconnections between the transistors of the memory cell allows a favorable placement of the injectors and the transistors, both from an electrical standpoint and from a layout point of view. Electrically, the injectors and the transistors can be placed such that a large collector area can be provided on the PNP transistors and a small series resistance can be provided from the collecting edge to the NPN collector and base contacts. This improves circuit performance.From a layout standpoint, the use of polysilicon cross connections between regions of opposite conductivity types of the tran sistors T1 and T2 will always permit layout designs having reduced area. While the design of FIGS. 3A and 3B illustrates one layout having significantly reduced area, other designs can be provided which will provide area reductions also. As is well known in the art, circuit layout designs are done not only with respect to the amount of area required, but also with respect to electrical isolation, electrical characteristics of the circuit, etc. As an example, a memory circuit has as a primary layout design consideration the reduction of area.In contrast with this, the layout of a logic circuit is done in a manner to provide enhanced operating characteristics, while the area of the circuit often is not of paramount importance.The pitch of metal interconnection lines i.e., the repeat distance when metal interconnection lines are used is usually greater than the pitch required when polysilicon lines are used for interconnections. This means that a circuit layout using polysilicon interconnection lines will provide a more dense package than one using only metal interconnection lines. When polysilicon interconnection lines are used, the opposite conductivity type regions in the transistor can be placed as close as possible. However, when metal interconnection lines are used, the line with of the metal determines the minimum spacing required between the metal interconnection lines, and therefore the density of the structüre is limited.By using polysilicon interconnection lines, the opposite conductivity type regions of the transistors can be placed very close to one another.In the practice of this invention, a primary consideration is that this interconnection scheme reduces the number of connection lines per level of fabrication which are necessary for cell wiring. In the design of FIGS. 3A and 3B, for example, the number of line interconnections per fabrication level has been reduced to 2, instead of 4 as illustrated by the layout of FIG.2B .While the advantage of area reduction has been illustrated with respect to a memory cell, it will be understood by those of skill in the art that this interconnection scheme can be used in appli cations other than memory cells. It will also be appreciated that layout designs can be provided having reduced area, but that the amount of reduction in area is often balanced against the electrical characteristics of the circ uit itself. Thus, a designer may not require excessive reductions in area but will balance the area reductions against the operating characteristics of the circuit. Regardless of the ground rules for layout design, the interconnection scheme described herein can be used to electrically interconnect opposite conductivity type regions and can therefore be used to reduce the number of connection lines per level.FIG. 4 shows the use of the aubiect intexconnection scheme pn a transistor circuit comprising complementary metal oxidemsemicon ductor CMOS devices in the top surface of an N type semiconduc tor wafer 118. MOS transistor T1 is a P channel device whileMOS transistor T2 is an N channel device. P type regions. 120 and 122 are used for the source and drain regions of transistor T1, which includes an overlying gate oxide 124 and a conductor electrode 126. A conductor connection to electrode 126 is indicated as G1.A P type region 128 is formed in a portion of the top surface of semiconductor 118, and forms the substrate into which N type regions 130 and 132 are formed. Regions 130 and 132 provide the source ahd drain regions of transistor T2 while P type region 128 provides the N channel of this transistor. Gate oxide 134 is a silicon oxide layer located over the channel of this transistor, while gate electrode 136 is a conductor layer overlying gate oxide 134. A line contacts electrode 136, as indicated by the designation G2.Polysilicon layers and an intermediate silicide layer are used to interconnect P region 122 of transistor T1 and N region 130 of transistor T2.A silicon oxide layer 138 is formed which prevents the formation of a polysilicon layer on certain portions of the top surface of semiconductor 118. After this, a P polysilicon layer 140 is used to make electrical contact to P type region 122, and a refractory metal silicide 142 is formed on P type polysilicon layer 140. An N polysilicon layer 144 is then used to make elec trical contact to N type region 130 in transistor T2. Polysilicon layer 144 is also connected to polysilicon layer 140 via the intermediate silicide layer 142. Thus, an electrical interconnection is provided between opposite canducttySty types in thisCMOS circuit using polysil con as the interconnection line. FIG. 5 shows another possible interconnection technique wherein a P polysilicon layer is in contact with an N polysilicon layer. That is, no intermediate silAcide layer ts used. This interconnection technique provides a quasi ohmic contact and may be suitable for interconnections in low current devices. The doping levels of the N polysilicon and P polysilicon lines 3 should be of the magnitude 10 impurities cm for this type of interconnection to be a suitable one.In more detail, a P type semiconductor material 146 has N type regions 148 and 150 in its top surface. Silicon oxide regions 152 are buried in the top surface of semiconductor 146. A layer of silicon oxide 154 is formed over a portion of the device shown in FIG. 5, and an N polysilicon layer 156 is used to make electrical contact to N type region 148. A P polysilicon layer 158 is formed over N type region 150, and impurities from this polysilicon layer diffuse into the top surface of region 150, to form a thin P layer 160. Rather than using an intermediate silicide layer between the op posite conductivity type polysilicon layers 156 and 158, these layers directly contact one another. In order to provide an adequate electrical interconnection between these polysilicon layers, very heavy doping must be used for both of the polysilicon lines, and for this reason a doping density greater than 10 impurities is preferred.While the invention has been particularly described with respect to silicon semiconductive material, the principles of the invention are applicable to other semicondu t y materials also. For example, polycrystalline layers of germanium can be used to form electrical contacts to P and N germanium regions and refractory metal compounds can be formed with germanium. Another possible semiconductor material that can be utilized with this interconnection scheme is gallium arsenide, since polycrystalline layers of this material can be formed and refractory metals can be used to form compounds with gallium arsenide. It will be understood by those of skill in the art that the present invention can be applied to any type of semiconductor circuitry where electrical interconnections are required between opposite conductivity regions. In general, the interconnection scheme uses polycrystalline layers of the semiconductor material and a combination such as a compound of that semiconductor material with a refractory metal. The preferred compound for use herein is one which has high electrical conductivity and which will provide a good electrical connection i.e., a sufficiently low voltage drop between opposite conductivity type polycrystal line layers. Of course, alloys of refractory metals and the semiconductor material can also be used between the polycrystalline semiconductor layers.