# Self propelled translation lift apparatus.

## Abstract
A fork lift truck comprising a vehicle 10 on which is mounted a fork lift apparatus moved by a linkage comprising one or more articulated parallelograms, wherein said vehicle comprises a driving cab 11 in the form of a load bearing structure, on the top of which the fork lift apparatus is slidably mounted on guides 13 .

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A fork lift truck comprising a vehicle on which is mounted a fork lift apparatus moved by a linkage comprising one or more articulated parallelograms, wherein said vehicle comprises a driving cab in the form of a loadbearing structure, on the top of which the fork lift apparatus is mounted traversable on guides. 2. A fork lift truck as claimed in Claim 1, wherein said driving cab is central. 3. A fork lift truck as claimed in Claim 1, wherein said a pparatus comprises a pair of arms pinned at one end to a carriage and having a fork support plate hinged to their other end, said arms each forming part of a double articulated parallelogram for controlling the inclination of said forks, there being also provided cylinders for operating the carriage and arms, and for varying the inclination of the forks.

## Description
SELF PROPELLED FORK LIFT TRUCK As is well known to experts of this particular art the efforts of fork lift truck manufacturers are directed towards increasing to the greatest possible extent the distance by which the raised load projects beyond the front wheels of the vehicles. Various types of fork lift truck have been proposed for this purpose, but they all comprise certain drawbacks. In one type, the forb are mounted on a pantograph extender fixed to telescopic lifting cylinders extending vertically from the front of the self propelled truck.Such a truck has the drawback of a low rigidity supporting structure, and of supporting the load in a completely Jutting disposition beyond its front wheels. This substantially limits the truck capacity and its degree of safety. In another truck of known type, the forward project ing traverse movement is obtained by complicated articulated parallelogram linkages which, for correct positioning of the load, always require a combination of two movements which are very difficult for the operator, the trajectory of the load movement never being horizontal and varying as a function of the angle between the parelle logram sides. Another type of truck is known which comprises telescopic arms with a fixed hinging point, a hydraulic parallelogram and a central driving position. In such trucks, the load is provided with a hori zontal trajectory by a combination of two movements which require great attention by the operator, who if he makes a mistake can risk inclining the forks, with consequent damage to the load and dangerous tilting thereof. A further truck of traditional type comprises a cen tral telescopic arm and a hydraulic parallelogram. It has the same drawbacks as the latter type of said truck, and furthermore the operator s visibility is rather poor because of the central arrangement of the telescopic arm. A type of truck is also known comprising a horizon tally traversing central trellis type arm and a mechanic al parallelogram. However, this has the drawback of a very wide chassis and a consequent lack of operator visi bility, there again being the possibility of inclining the forks and tilting the load if mistakes are made in opera tion. The object of the present invention is to provide a fork lift truck fitted with a longitudinal horizontal traverser and of such a structure as to obviate or at least minimise the drawbacks of known trucks as briefly described heretofore. k This object is attained according to the present invention by a fork lift truck comprising a vehicle on which is mounted a fork lift apparatus moved by a linkage comprising one or more articulated parallelogram, wherein said vehicle comprises a driving cab in the form of a load bearing structure, on the top of which the fork lift apparatus is mounted traversable on guides. The structural and operational characteristics of the invention and its advantages over the traditional art will be more apparent from an examination of the description given hereinafter by way of example with reference to the accompanying drawings, in which FIGURE 1 is a side elevation showing a fork lift truck according to the invention in its rest state, FIGURE 2 is a front elevation on the arrow r ofFIGURE 1, with parts of the fork lift truck broken away, FIGURE 3 is a plan view on the arrow Fl of FIG. 1, FIGURES 4 and 5 are diagrammatic views showing the various operational position5 of the fork lift truck according to the invention. With reference to the drawings, the fork lift truck according to the invention comprises a vehicle 10 with a central guide cab 11, on the top of which is mounted the fork lift apparatus 9. Said apparatus comprises a horizontal traverser indicated overall by 12, which is made to slide on a pair of lateral guides 13 fixed to the top of the load bearing structure 14 of the driving cab 11 and connected together by a cross member 15. The traverser comprises a carriage 16 formed from a pair of longitudinal box beams 17 which are connected together by a pair of terminal cross members 18. The carriage 16 is mounted on the guides 13 by wheels 19 connected to the beams 17. The traversing movement of the carriage 16 is controlled by a hydraulic cylinder 20 pivoted to the cross member 15 so as to rotate about the axis 21, and its rod 22 is hinged to the front cross member 18 of said carriage. A pair of arms 23, rigidly connected together by cross members 24, is connected to the beams 17 of the carriage 16. Said arms 23 rotate about the pivots 25 under the control of a pair of hydraulic cylinders 26, which are hinged to the beams 17 about 27, and have their rods 28 pivoted at 29 to the arms 23. A plate 30 carrying the forks 9 is connected to the free end of the arms 23.The plate 30 can be inclined through a small angle about the pivots 31. The movement of the plate 30 is controlled by a pair of hydraulic cylinders 32, the rod 33 of which is pivoted at 34 to said plate 30. Each cylinder 32 is pivoted in its turn at 35 to one end of an angle lever 36, which is pivoted at an intermediate point 37 to the relative arm 23. At its end distant from the end 35, the lever 36 is pivoted at 38 to one end of a rod 39, the other end of which is pivoted at 40 to the beam 17. A double articulated parallelogram is thus formed. Theioperation of the fork lift truck according to the invention is apparent from the description given heretofore, and is clearly shown in FIGURES 1 4 and 5 of the drawings. FIGURE 1 shows the fork lift truck in its rest position, with the forks on the ground and the carriage 16 completely withdrawn. Any load on the ground can thus be taken by the forks, raised into the position of FIGURE 4 and then moved horizontally with a forward tra versing movement into the position of FIGURE 5, to be then deposited on the required working surface. During these movements, the forks, which always move parallel to themselves, can also be slightly inclined upwards so as to operate under conditions of maximum safety, without any danger of the load falling. The fork lift truck according to the invention has the following advantages 1. Its forks are inserted under the load with the ma chine at rest, with the advantage of being able to opera te safely, even on very rough ground. 2. The load is deposited with the machine at rest, with the advantage of being able to operate safely, even on very rough ground. This requirement is particularly felt when the load is deposited at maximum height. 3. The stroke of the traverser is 10 cm greater than the length of the forks in order to enable them to be released from the load without difficulty.4. The traverser is situated on the driving cab, giving the following advantages driving position in the centre absolute frontal visibility total protection of the driving position from moving parts cylinders, levers, arms etc. easily adjusted micrometric movement without stress ing the structures of the drive unit.5. Ensuring that during load lifting and lowering operations the load support plane forks does not change inclination.