# Low phosphate detergent composition for fabric washing.

## Abstract
A detergent composition containing surfactant and an insoluble aluminosilicate builder salt includes defined, low levels of a phosphate builder salt and of certain polymeric materials based on maleic acid. The presence of these low levels of phosphate and polymaleate enhances the builder effectiveness of the eluminosilicate and the compositions have surprisingly good cleaning performance and show enhanced removal of bleachable stains.

## Claims
What wc claim is 1. A detergent composition comprising a from 2 to 60 of a surfactant selected anionic, nonionic, zwitterionic and ampho eri surfactant and mixtures thereof an b from 5 to 60 of a water insoluble a m silicate on exchange material of theEMI29.1 tb Mz SEP SEP AlO2 z. SiO2 y x SEP H2O tb wherein M is a calcium exchange cation are integers of at least 6 the molar rat z to y is in the range from 1.0 to about and X is an integer from about 15 to about 2 said aluminosilicate ion exchange material having a particle size diameter from about 0.1 mi r r to about 100 microns a calcium ion exchange apacity of at least about 200 mq. eq. CaCO3 g. at calcium ion exchange rate of at leas eot grains Ca gallon minute gram, characterized in that the composition additionally compri c from 0.5 to 6 of a phosphate builder salt and d from 0.1m to 3 of a polymeric materia having a molecular weight of from 2000 to 2.000,000 and which is a copolymer of male c acid or anhydride and a polymerisable monomer selected from compounds of formulaEMI29.2 wherein R1 is CH3 or a C2 to C12 alkyl group EMI30.1 wherein R2 is H or CH3 and R3 is H, or a C1 to C10 alkyl group EMI30.2 wherein each of R4 and R5 is H or an alkyl group such thatR4 and R5 together have 0 to 10 carbon atoms EMI30.3 and vl mixtures of any two or more thereof, said copolymers being optionally wilolly or partly neutralised at the car boxyl groups by sodium or potassium. 2. A composition according to Claim 1, characterised in that the phosphate salt is present in an amount of from 1 to 4 . 3. A composition according to Claim 1 or Claim 2, characterised in that the phosphate salt is an alkali metal tripolyphosphate. 4. A composition according to any one of Claims 1 3, characterised in that the aluminosilicate is Zeolite A having a particle size from 0.2 microns to 10 microns. 5. A composition according to any one of Claims 1 4, characteised in that the surfactant comprises a 5 1 to 1 3 mixture of a C8 C22 alkyl benzene sulfonate and a C10 C20 alkanol ethoxylated with from 3 to 30 moles of ethylene oxide per mole of alkanol. 6. A composition according to Claim 5, characterised in that the surfactant additionally comprises from 1 to 5 of a C O C20 soap. 7. A composition according to any one of Claims 1 8, characterised in that the polymeric maternal is a copolymer of maleic acid or anhydride and methyl vinyl ether, or a water soluble salt thereof. 8. A composition according to any one of Claims 1 7, characterised in that the phosphate salt is dry mixed in the composition.

## Description
DETERGENT CCMPOSITIONS This invention relates to detergent compositions, and, in ear ticular, to detergent compositions having only a specific low level of phosphorous containing builder salt. It is known that laundry compositions function nor efficiantly in soft water than in water containing significant amounts of solved hardness cations such as calcium ion, magnesium on and the like. Zeolites or other cation exchange materials were frequently used to pre soften water. Such pre softening procedures require additional expense to the user occasioned by the need to purchase softener appliance. The most usual means whereby fabrics can be optionally laundered under hard water conditions involves the use of water soluble builder salts and or chelators to sequester the undesirable hardness cat ions and to effectively remove them from interaction with the fabries and detergent materials in the laundering liquor. The mos effica i us material of this type has been sodium tripolyphosphate and hi builder has been in almost universal use during the last ten years.However, the use of such water soluble builders, especially phosphates, introduces into the water supply certain materials which, in improperly treated sewage effluents, may be undesirable. Accordingly, a weans eW providing water softening builders in detergent compositions the need for such large quantities of soluble builder desirable. A variety of methods have been suggested for providing builder and water softening action concurrently with the washing cycle of a home laundering operation, but without the need for water soluble detergent additives. One recently developed method for removing water hardness cations in detergent solutions involves the use of certain waterinsoluble synthetic aluminosilicates in detergent compositions. A multitude of patent applications have appeared in recent years rela ting to this material. Among these can be mentioned British PatentSpecifications No. 1,429,143 No. 1,473,201 and No. 1,473,202 German Offenlegungsschriften No. 2,529,685 and No. 2,532,501 DutchPatent Application No. 75.11455 U.S. Patent No. 3,985,669 andBelgian Patent No. 835,492. Although these, and other, patent applications suggest the possibility that useful detergent compositions can be prepared that are entirely free of water soluble builders, especially phosphate salts, it has been found in practice that the aluminosilicate material, even in large amounts, tends to be undesirably slow in its exchange of cat ions preferably at low wash temperatures and the most useful coapo sitions haze been those which contain mixtures of aluminosilicate materials and water soluble builder salts, especially sodium tripolyphosphate. The essence of the present invention lies in the discovery that compositions based on aluminosilicate and having specifically defined low levels of phosphate builder can have excellent all round detergency performance provided that they also include a small amount of certain. specific polymer5c3materials, nuply poly meres including maleic acid or similar dibasic acid groups Copolymers containing maleic acid moieties have already been suggested for use in detergent compositions containing aluminosili rate. For example, in Dutch Patent Application No. 75.11455, a copo lymer of maleic acid and methylvinylether is used at a high level essentially acting as a co builder with the aluminosilicate. Alan, in Belgian Patent No. 835, 492, there is a suggestion tnat such copolymers can be used in mixed aluminosilicate tripolyphosphate systems to improve the processing characteristic of spray dried detergent compositions. The Dutch Patent Specification No. 74.03382 also discloses compositions containing various polymers but these compositions normally contain substantial amounts of phosphate or, if free of phosphate, contain builder levels of the polymers. Furthermore, these polymers are normally polyacrylates and the polymers selected for use in the present invention have been shown to provide benefits in bleachable stain removal not shared by polyacrylate materials. It is arr object of this invention to provide detergent compositions containing water insoluble aluminosilicate ion exchange materials which are free of large amounts of phosphate and yet are capable of providing superior detergency performance. According to the invention there is provided a deterent composition comprising a from 2 to 60 of a surfactant se ected fr anion nonionic, zwitterionic and amphoteri surfactants and mixtures thereof b from 5 to 60 of a water insoluble aluminosilicate ion exchange material of the formula Mz AlO2 z. SiO2 y x H2O wherein M is a calcium exchange cation z and y are integers of at least 6 the molar ratio of z to y is in the ra ge from ab 0.5 and x is an integer from about 15 to o 4 m silicate ion exchange material having a particle size diameter from about 0.1 micron to about 100 migrons a calcium ion exchange a s ity f t si about 200 mg. ac. lcast abc c from 0.5 to 6 of a phosphate builder salt and d from 0.1 to 5 of a polymeric material having a molecular weight of from 2000 to 2,000,000 and which is a copolymer of maleic acid or anhydride and a polymerisable monomer selected from compounds of formula EMI4.1 wherein R1 is CH3 or a C2 to C12 alkyl group EMI4.2 wherein R is H or CH and R is H, or a C to C alkyl group EMI4.3 wherein each of R4 and R5 is H or an alkyl group such thatR4 and R5 together have 0 to 10 carbon atoms EMI4.4 and vi mixtures of any two or more thereof, said copolymers being optionally wholly or partly neutralised at the car boxyl groups by sodium or potassium. Preferred compositions of the invention contain from 1 to 4 , of phosphate salts, especially a tripolyphosphate.Other water soluble builder salts, while not excluded from the present invention are also preferably absent except in small amounts Highly preferred compositions are in granular form and contain frcu 5, to 20 surfactant and from 15 to 50 of the aluminosilicate. In the following detailed description of the invention, the percent indications mean percent by weight, unless otherwise stated. The detergent compositions of the instant invention contain a surfactant selected from anionic, nonionlc, zwitterionic and ampholytic surfactants. The surfactant is used in an amount from about 2 to about 60 , preferably from about 5 to about 5C of the detergent compositions. A typical listing of the classes and species of surfactants useful herein appears in U.S. Patent 3,929,678, Incorporated herein by reference. The following list of detergent conpounds and mixtures which can be used in the instant compositions is representative of such materials, but is not intended to be limiting. Water soluble salts of the higher fatty acids, i.e. soaps , are useful as the detergent component of the compositions herein. This class of detergents includes ordinary alkali metal soaps such as the sodium, potassium, ammonium and alkylolammionium salts of higher fatty acids containing from about 8 to about 24 carbon atoms nd pr ferably from about 10 to about 20 carbon atoms. soaps can e r . direct saponification of fats and oils or by the neutralization of free fatty acids. Particularly useful are the sodium and potassium salts of the mixtures of fatty acids derived from, coconut il and tallow, i.e. sodium or potassium tallow and coconut soap. Another class of detergents includes water soluble salts, particularly the alkali metal, ammonium and alkylolammonium salts, orga nic sulf ric reaction products havieg in theit ar t e a alkyl group containing from about B to about 22 arton acm ann e sulfonic ac lf ric acid ester group. ude alkyl is the portion o a y ents which form of the reent invertion e sodium and potassium alkyl sulfates, especially those obtaire by sulfating the higner alcohols C8 C18 carbon atoms produced 0 redusing he glycerides of tallow or coconut il and sodium and potassium alkyl benzene sulfonates, in which the alkyl group contains from about 9 to about 15 carbon atoms, in straight chain or ranche hain configuration, e.g. those of the type described in Unite tates Patents 2,220,099 and 2,477,383. Especially valuable are linear straight chain alkyl benzene sulfonates in which the average of the alkyl group is about 13 carbon atoms, abbreviated as C13 LAS. Other anionic detergent compounds herein include the sodium alkyl glyceryl ether sulfonates, especially those ethers of higher alcohols derived from tallow and coconut cil sodium coconut oil fatty acid monoglyceride sulfonates and sulfates and sodium or potassium salts of al yl onenol ethylene oxide ether sulfate containing about 1 to about 10 units of ethylene oxide per molecule and wherein the alkyl groups contain about 8 to about 12 carbon atoms. Water soluble nonionic synthetic detergents are also useful as the detergent component of the instant composition. Such nonionic etergent materials can be br adly defined as compounds produced by the condensation of alkylene oxide groups hydrophilic in nature with an organic hydrophobic compound, which may be aliphatic or alkyl aromatic in nature. The leng of the polyoxyalkylene group which is contensed with any particular ydrophobic group can be readily adjusted to yield a water soluble having the desired degree of balance between hydrophilic and hydrophobic elements. or example, well known class of nonionic syrthetic detergents is made available or the ar et under the trade name of Pluronic .These compounds the formed by condensing ethylene oxide with a hydro ph i base formed y the n ensation of propylene oxide with propy lene glycol. Other sultable nonionic synthetic detergents include polyethylene oxide condens es of alkyl phenols, e.g., the condensa products of alkyl phenols having an alkyl group containing from about 6 to 12 carbon atoms in either a straight han or branched oral con figuration, with ethylene oxide, the sad ethylene oxIde being present in amounts equal to 5 to 25 moles of ethylene oxide per mole of alkyl phenol. The water soluble condensation products of aliphatic lcohols having from 8 to 22 carbon atoms, in either straigh chain or branched configuration, with ethylene oxide, e.g., a coconut alcohol ethylene oxide condensate having from 5 to 30 moles of ethylene oxide per mole of coconut alcohol, the coconut alcohol fraction having fre 10 to 14 carbon atoms, are also useful nonionic detergents herein. Semi polar nonlonic detergents include water soluble amine oxides containing one alkyl moiety of from about 10 to 28 carbon atones and 2 moieties selected from the group consisting of alkyl groups and hydroxyalkyl groups containing from 1 to about 3 carbon atoms water soluble phosphine oxide detergents containing one ab yl moiety of about 10 t 28 carbon atoms and 2 moieties selected from the group i ting of alkyl groups and hydroxyalkyl groups containing from about 5 ca atoms and water soluble sulfo ide detergents containting o e alkyl moiety of from about 10 to 28 carbon atoms and a moiety selected from the group consisting of alkyl and hydroxyalkyl moieties of from 1 to 3 carbon atoms. Ampholytic detergents include derivatives of aliphati r alipha. tic derivatives of heter cyclic sec y a t the aliphatic moiety can be straight r of the aliphatic substituents contains from about 8 to 19 carbon at Zwitterionic detergents include derivatives of aliphatic quaternary ammonium, phosphorium and sulfonium compounds in which the aliphatic moieties can be straight chain or bra ched, and wherein one of the aliphatic substituents contaire from about 8 to 18 carbon atoms and one contains an ionic water so ubilizing group. Other useful detergen compounds her n i de the watersoluble salts of esters of alpha sulfonate containing from about 6 to 20 carbon atoms in the fa a d group and from about 1 to 10 carbon atoms in the ester group water soluble salts of 2 acyloxy alkane 1 sulfonic acids containing from about 2 to 9 carbon atoms in the acyl group and from about 9 to about 23 carbon atoms in the alkane moiety alkyl ether sulfates containing from about 10 to 20 carbon atoms in the alkyl group and from about 1 to 30 moles of ethylene oxide water soluble salts of o fin sulfonates containing from about 12 to 24 carbon atoms and ss alkyloxy alkane sulfonates contanning from about 1 to 3 carbon atoms in .he alkyl group and from about 8 to 20 carton atoms in the alkane moiety. It is to be recognized that any of the foregoing detergents can be used separately herein or as mixtures. A highly preferred mixture of surfactants is an anic ic nonionic mixture, especially a mixture of a C C22 alkyl benzene sulfonate an a C10 C20 alkanol ethoxylated with from 3 to 30 moles of ethylene oxide per mole of alkanol. Highly prefer ed mixtures include C12 alkyl benzene sulfonate and C14 C15 alcohol 7 ethoxylate, in ratios of from 5 1 to 1 3, perferably 3 1 to 1 1. In still more preferred compo sitions, a fatty acid soap i added to the above deseribed mixture, preferably a C10 C20 soap at a level of from 1 to 5 . The aluminosilicate on exchange materials used herein are prepared by a process which results in the formation of materials which are particularly suitable for use as detergency builders and water softeners. Specifically, the aluminosilicates rein have both a higher calcium ion exchange capacity and a higher exchange than similar materials previously suggested as detergency buil ders. Such high calcium ion exchange rate and capacity appear to be a function of several interrelated factors which resul from the method of preparing said aluminosilicate ion 4 rn materials. It is highly preferred that these ion exchange builder terials are in the sodium form . A second essential feature of the ion exchange buildem me terials herein is that they be in a hydrated form, i.e. contain 10 28 , preferably 10 22 , of water, Highly prefermed aluminosilicates herein frequently contain from about 18 to abovt 22 water in their crystal matrix. It has been found, for example.that less highly hydrated aluminosilicates, e.g. those comtai ning about 6 water, do not function effectively as ion exchange builders when employed in the context of a laundry detergent composition. , A third essential feature of the ion exchange builder ma terials herein is their particle size range. Proper selection of small particle sizes results in fast, highly efficient buil der materials. A suitable method for preparing such materials is desoribed in British Patent No. 1 501 498, the disclosure of which is in corporated herein by reference. This patent also characterises the aluminosilicate materials in terms of their physical proper ties. A highly preferred synthetic aluminosilicate ion exchange material for use in the present invention is known under the commercial denomination ZEOLITE A in the dehydrate rom i can be used as a molecular sieve and catalyst carrier. The synthetic aluminosilicate known commercially as ZEOLIT X is also suitable for use in the present invention, as are the amorphous synthetic aluminosilicates.A preferred synthetic aluminosilicate ion exchange material has the formula Na12 AlO2 12. SiO2 12 .27H2O Examples of aluminosilicates having a molar ratio Al02 SiO2 1, suitable for use in the instant compositions include Na86 Al 2 86 SiO2 106 .264 H20 and 6 Al02 6 Si02 10 .15 11200 Although completely hydrated aluminosilicate ion exchange materials are preferred herein, it is recognized that the partially dehydrated aluminosilicates having the general formula given hereinbefore are also excellently suitable for rapidly and effectively reducing the water hardness during the laundering operation.Of course, in the process of preparing the instant aluminosilicate ion exchange material, reaction crystallization parameter fluctuations can result in such partially hydrated materials. As pointed out previously, aluminosilicates having about 6 or less water do not function effectively for the intended purpose in laundering context. The suitability of particular partially dehydrated water insoluble aluminosilicates for use in the compositions of this invention can easily be asserted and does only involve routine testing as, for example, described herein Ca ion exchange capacity rate of exchange . The ion exchange properties of the aluminosilicates herein can conveniently be determined by means of a calcium ion electrode. In this technique, the rate and capacity of Ca uptake from an aqueous solution containing a known quantity of Ca ion is determined as a function of the amount of aluminosilicate ion exchange material added to the solution. The water insoluble, inorganic aluminosilicate ion exchange materials prepared in the foregoing manner are characterized by a particle size diameter from about 0.1 micron to about 100 microns. Preferred ion exchange materials have a particle size diameter from about 0.2 micron to about 10 microns. The term particle size diameter herein represents the average particle size diameter of a given ion exchange material as determined by conventional analytical techniques such as, for example, microscopic determination, scanning electron microscope SEM . The aluminosilicate ion exchangers herein are further cha racterized by their calcium ion exchange capacity, which is at least about 200 mg. equivalent of CaCO3 hardness gram of alumis nosilicate, calculated on an anhydrous basis, and which gemera ly lies within the range of from about 300 mg. eq. g. to br 352 mg. eq. g. The ion exchange materials herein are still further characterized by their calcium ion exchange rate, which is at ea. about 2 grains Ca gallon minute gram of aluminosinicate anhydrous basis , and lies within the range of about 2 grains gallon minute gram to about 6 grains gallon minute gram, se on calcium ion hardness. Optimum aluminosillcate for bui e purposes exhibit a Ca exchange rate of at least about grains gallon minute gram. Preferred detergent compositions of the present invention contain from 15 to 50 of the aluminosilicate, more preferably from 20 to 45 . Another essential component herein is a minor amount, O. g to to 6 , of a water soluble phosphate salt. Particularly prefer red compositIons contain from 1 to 3 of a polyphosphate salt, especially sodium or potassium tripolyphosphate or higher poly phosphates, such as the tetra ,penta , and hexaphosphates up the so called glassy metaphosphates with some 12 14 or more hos phorous atoms in the molecule. The use of such phosphates 2 of course reduce the economy of phosphate usage achieved compositions, but it also improves some aspects ol their clea ning power, especially whiteness maintenance and remo al f pare ticulate soils, such as clay like materials.Preferred ompo tions contain from 1 to 3 of tripolyphosphate, or from 0.5 to 2 pentaphosphate. Such phosphates are obtainable commercial ly under trade names, such as those of Messrs. Albright an Wilson, viz. Phosphate Glass 627 believed to be sodium pentaphosphate Calgon N12 believed to be the P12 glassy phoaphate and a tively known as glassy sodium phosphate, so phate sodium hexametaphosphate or Graham s Salts . It is a most surprising effect in the present invention that the presence of such small quantities of phosphate salts can contribute so effectively to the overall performance of the detergent composition. While not intending to be limited by theory, it appears that certain defined,minor quantities of phosphate have a substantial influence on the kinetics of the calcium exchange reaction with the aluminosilicate, so that the effectiveness of the zeolite material, especially in short wash cycles is markedly improved. The fourth essential component herein is a water soluble copolymer or derivative thereof as defined above. The copolymeric ingredient is used in an amount from about 0.1 to about 3 , preferably from 0.25 to 1.5 . Copolymers useful in the present invention aro a copol of maleic acid with certain olefinic monomers, optionally partly neutralised by sodium or potassium. All may be made by heati together maleic anhydride and the other monomer in an appropriate solvent, such as benzene, cyclohexene, or in some eases Is ex st of one of the monomers, in the presence of a catalyst such as ar crganic peroxide or azo bisbutyronitrile.As will be appreciatei ose skilled in the art, different solvent, catalysts. tion conditons are most suitable according to the type c copolyme molecu lar weight thereof being prepared. In particula in rder make the high molecular weight polymers for the preset invention, it is often desirable to use up the initiator catalyst te make e macro radical and then to add further monomers employing the macro radical as sole initiator. Methods of preparing these compounds 3re described in U.S. Patent 2,430,313 Vana to E.I.Dupont de Nemours The polymers so prepared are, of course, copolymers of maleic dride and the selected monomer. Either before or during the manufacture of the compositions of the invention, these are usually hydro ysed to t acid form and optionally neutralised as indicat d above. the pre specification, unless stated otherwise, the molecular weight compolymer is expressed as that of the unnentralised a d It so happens that when copolymers formed from olefins of the sse i , iii ,and v above are prepared, the copolymer consist tially entirely of alternating units of each monomer even th ne original monomers reacted were present in other than a 1 1 l rati In the case of the acrylic maleic corolymers of class s sary to ensure an excess of maleic an d ide tr a tion mi obtair substantially 1 1 molar rati t in acrylic un ts can be obtained p of acrylic mor e in the reaction The alkyl vinyl ethers constituting coponent i of the composition of the invention are preferably methyl vinyl ethers. Preferred molecular weights for these copolymers are in the range from 12,000 to 1,500,000, more preferably 50,000 to 300,000.Copolymers in anhydride form believed to be of this class are commerdially available from GAF Corporation under the trade names Gantrez ANll9 MWt.200,000 in anhydride form Gantrez ANl39 MWt.500,000 in anhydride form , AN149 MWt.750,000 in anhydride form and AN169 MXT.1,125,000 in anhydride form . Ethyl and methyl vinyl ether maleic anhydride copolymers are also available from BASF under the trade name Sokalan and having mole eular weight about 30,000. Higher than methyl alkyl vinyl ethers, especially C2 to C4 alkyl, have been found to be most effective in copolymers of much lower molecular weight, preferably in the range from 2,000 to 20,000, especially about 4,000 to 12,000. The molecular weight of these copolymers is the viscosity average molecular weight and is determined as follows A number of polymer solutions of known concentration 1 w v are made up in a suitable solvent and their viscosities determined as described in F. Daniels et al Experimental Physieal Chemistry pp.71 74, 242 246, McGraw Hill 1949 , at 25 C, using an Ostwald viscometer. A plot of specific viscosity concentration against concentration is then constructed and the best line extrapolated to zero concentration.The value of specific viscosity concentration at zero concentration is termed the intrinsic viscosity, . This parameter is used to de termine a viscosity average molecular weight, M v For the above copolymers as anhydrides the equation applicable employing acetone as solvent, and giving the molecular weight of the anhydride form is logL7 0.94 log M .27 IIn 1M NaOH, giving the molecular weight of the sodium salt of the copo lymer, the equation is log 0.86 log M 2.88 II The acrylic maleic copolymers derived from olefin ii above are preferably based upon methyl acrylate or methyl methacrylate, although higher alkyl esters may be employed.The manufacture of these polymers, and the control of the molar ratio of the monomers one to other is described by Seymour, Harris and Branum in Industrial and Engineering Chemistry, Volume 41, pages 1509 to 1513, 13 re ferably copolymers wherein the molar ratio of acrylate ester to maleic acid is from about 2 1 to 1 1 are employed herein, especially close to 1 1 their molecular weight is preferably in the range from x,000 to 1,500,000, especially from about 5,000 to 30,000. The molecular weight of these copolymers is determined by the method described above. When the olefin iii is used, the copolymers are preferably of high molecular weight and are preferably based on ethylene. The preferred molecular weight range is from 275,000 to 1,500,000. Another preferred group of materials within this class are copolymers of maleic anhydride or acid with propylene, isobutylene, alkyl substituted isobutylene and, especially, di isobutylene, having mole. cular weight In the range from about 500 to 50,000 and molar rat , of olefine to maleic acid in the range from 1 1 to 1 2. Suitable materials of this type are available under the trade names Empieryl ofAlbright and Wilson Ltd. and Orotan of Rohm and Haas. The molecular weight of these polymers is determined by the method described above but employing ethanol as solvent and using the equation log 1.18 log Mv 3.85 III The vinyl pyrrolidone maleic copolymers using olefin iv above preferably have molecular weight in the rargefros about to 50,000, especially about 20,000 to 30,000. The molecular weight is determined by the method described above but employing IM NaOH as solvent and using the equation II above. The styrene maleie acid copolymers olefin v above preferably have molecular weight about 300,000. The molecular weight is determi ned by the same method but employing acetone as solvent and using the equation I above. The most preferred copolymers are those of methyl and ethyl vinyl ether maleic described above. Although polymers of the above type have been suggested for use in compositions containing aluminosilicate, these prior art disclosures have either been in compositions containing substantial amounts of phos phate co builder e.g. Belgian Patent No. 835 492 or have utilised relatively large levels of polymer, at least 5 e.g. German Offenlegungs schrift No. 25 39 071 , at which levels the polymer acts mainly as a co builder. It was entirely unexpected that, in an aluminosilicate built composition substantially free of phosphate, the presence of very small amounts of these polymeric materials could give a substantial improvement in detergency performance, especially on bleachable stain removal. There may also be included in the composition other inorganic salts which have some detergency buiLding effect and effect upon the alkalinity of the compositions, or act as fillers, such as sodium or potassium carbonates, borates, sulphates and silicates. In solid granular or particulate compositions it is preferred that an alkali metal, especially sodium, silicate be present. The alkali metal silicate preferably is used in an amount from 0.5 to 10 , preferably from 3 to 8 . Suitable silicate solids have a molar ratio of SiO alkali metal20 in the range from about 0.5 to 2 2 about 4.0, but much more preferably from 1.0 to 1.8, especially about 1.6. The alkali metal silicates suitable herein can be commercial pre parations of the combination of silicone dioxide and alkali metal oxide.fused together in varying proportions. Crystalline silicate solids normally possess a high alkalinity content in addition hydration water is freguently present Rs, for example, in metasilicates which can exist having 5, 6 or 9 molecules of water. The alkalinity is provided through the monovalcnt alkali metal ions such as, for example, sodium, potassium, lithium and mixtures thereof. The sodium and potassium silicate solids are generally used.Highly preferred for the compositions herein are the commercially widespread available sodium silicate solids. The alkali metal silicate solids are preferably. incorporated into the instant detergent compdsitions during the crutchinr operation together with the other major constituents, particularly the surface active agent and the waterinsoluble aluminosiicate ion exchange material. The required amount of silicate solids can also be incorporated into the detergent composition in the form of colloidal silicates called water glass which are frequently sold as a 20 50t aqueous solution. Silicate solids, particularly sodium silicate solids, are frequently added to ileavy duty granular detergent compositions as corrosion inhibitors to provide protection to the metal parts of the washing machines in which the alkali washing liquor is utilized.In addition, sodium silicates provide a certain degree of crispness and pourability to detergent granules w licn is very desirable to avoid lumping and caking, particularly during prolonged storage. It is known, nowever, that silicate solids cannot easily be incorporated into detergent compositions. comprising major amounts of water insoluble aluminosilicate ion exchange materials as they are capable of enhancing and facilitating the deposition of these water insoluble particles on the textiles being laundered as well as on the machine.In addition, the concurrent use of alkali metal silicate solids and water insoluble aluminosilicates apparently adversely affects the, capacity and rate of hardness depletion of the ion exchange material in laundry liquor.It is believed that this can be due to a physical blocking of the ion exchange sites on the synthetic zeolites herein. Unexpectedly, a minor effective amount of alkali metal silicate solids has been found to be compatible with a major amount of synthetic aluminosilicate materials in the presence of organic syntnetic detergents, thereby providing effective corrosion inhibition crispness benefits without concurrently enhancin the deposition of the synthetic aluminosilicato par tides on the textiles and on the walls os tine washing machine. As noted hereinabove, the detergent compositions of the resent invention can contain, in addition to the aluminosilicate ion exchange builders, small amounts of other nen phosphate buiiders These include the water soluble salts of phosphonates. i ar bonates, carbonates, citrates, polyhydroxysulfonates, poly etates, carboxylates, polycarboxylates and succinates.The polyphosphonates specifically include, for example, the sodium and postassium salts of ethylene diphosphonic acid, the sodium and potassium salt of ethane 1hydroxy l, l diphosphonic acid and the sodium and potassium salts of ethane 1,1,2 triphosphonic acid. Examples of these and other phosphorous builder compounds are disclosed in U.S. Patents 3,159,531 3,213,030 3,422,021 3,422,137 3,400,175 and 3,400,148, incorporated heroin by reference. Specific examples of the polyacetate and polycarboxylate builder salts include sodium, potassium, lithium, ammonium and substituted ammo nium salts of ethylene dianine tetraacetic acid, nitrilotriacetic cid, oxydisuccinic acid, mellitic acid, benzene polycarboxylic acids, and citric acid. Highly preferred non phosphorous auxiliary builder material herein include sodium carbonate, sodium bicarbonate, sodium citrate, sodium oxy disuccinate, sodium mellitate, sodium nitrilotriacetate, and sodium ethylenediaminetetraacetate, and mixtures thereof. The compositions of this invention can require the presence of a suds regulating or suppressing agent. Suds regulating components are normally used an an amount from about 0.001 to about 5 , preferably from about O.C o about 3 and especially from about 0 O.lor to about 1 . The suds suppressing regu lating agents which are known to be suitable as s rds suppressing agents in detergent context can be used in the compositions herein.These include the silicone suds suppressing agen s, especially he mixtures of silicones and silica described in U.S. Pate No.3,933,672, the disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reverence. A particularly preferred suds suppressor is the material known as the sodium salt of a long chain C20 C24 fatty acid. Microcrystalline waxes having a melting point in the range from 350C 1150C and saponifieation value of less than 100 represent an additional example of a preferred suds regulating component for use in the subject compositions. The microcrystalline waxes are substantially water insoluble, but are water dispersible in the presence of organic surfactants. Preferred microcrystalline waxes have a melting point from about 65 C to 100 C, a molecular weight in the range from 400 1 000 and a penetration value of at least 6, measured at 77 C by ASTM D1321.Suitable examples of the above waxes include microcrystalline and oxidized microcrystalline petrolatum waxes Fischer Tropsch and oxidizedFischer Tropsch waxes ozokerite ceresin montan wax beeswax candelilla and carnauba wax. The detergent compositions herein can contain all manner of other materials commonly found in laundering and cleaning compositions. For example, such compositions can contain thickeners and soil suspending agents such as earbexymethylcellulose and the like. Enzymes, especially the proteolytic and lipolytic enzymes commonly used io laundry detergent compositions, can also be present herein. Various perfumes, optical bleaches, fillers, anti caking agents, fabric softeners and the like can be present in the compositions to provide the usual benefits occasioned by the use of such materials in detergent compositions.It is to he recognized that all such adJuvant materials are useful herein inasmuch as they are compatible and stable in the presence of the aluminosili cate ion exchange builders. The granular detergent compositions herein can also advantageously contain a peroxy bleaching component in an amount from about 3 to about 40 by weignt,preferably from about 8 to about 33 by weight. Examples of suitable peroxy bleach components for use herein include perborates, persulfates, persilicates, perphosphates, perearbonates, and more in general all inorganic and organic peroxy bleaching agents which are known to be adapted for use in the subject composItions.The composttion can also advantagenusly include a bleach activator which is normally an organic compound containing an N ecyl,or an O acyl preferably acetyl group. Preferred materials are N,N,N ,N tetraacetyl ethylene diamine and N,N,N ,N tetraacetylglycouril. The detergent compositions of this invention can be prepared by any of the several well known procedures for preparing commercial detergent compositions. For example, the compositions can be prepared by simply admixing the aluminosilicate ion exchange material with the watersoluble organic detergent compound. The adjuvant builder material and optional ingredients can be simply admixed therewith, as desired. Alternatively, an aqueous slurry of the aluminosilicate ion exchange builder containing the dissolved water soluble organic detergent compound and the optional and auxiliary materials can be spray dried in a tower to provide a granular composition.The granules of such spray dried detergent compositions contain the aluminosilicate ion exchange builder, the organic detergent compound and the optional and alri ry materials. In a preferred process, the surfactant ingredients, the alum no silicate and the polymerin material are slurried in an aqueous medium, together with sodium silicate and sodium sulfate, if present This mixture is then spray dried and the necessary quantities of the phosphate salt, e.g. sodium tripolyphosphate, is added separately to the spraydried mixture. Other ingredients which are normally added after the spray drying step are enzyme and bleach. It is highly preferred that the sodium tripolyphosphate b dry mixed in this fashion because this avoids the possibility cf reversion of the tripolyphosphate to ortho and or pyrophospha e, It belr .ncwn that such reverted phosphate materials tend to deposit noticebly on both the laundered fabrics and on washing machine surfaces. The compositions of the present invention show very llttle or ro tendency to deposit n soluble phosphate salts on to fabric or machine surfaces and are very advantageous in this regard. In an especially preferred process of the present invention. a specific type of sodium silicate and specific drying conditions are used to avoid agglomeration of the aluminosilicate material. Agglomeration of the aluminosilicate tends to cause a high level of insolubles, an unsightly solution appearance, deposits on fabrics, and blocking of cation exchange sites with resulting reduced calcium depletion capacity. The two parameters controlling the tendency for the aluminosilicate to agglomerate are ratio and level of silicate and the level of base powder moisture. The chemistry of silicate solutions involves wnat has become known as the crystalloid colloIdal amorphous balance with the break point at the ratio 2.0 molar or 1.96 weight based on Si02 Na2O . Below 2.0 ratio the silicate anion consists of either one or two nonionic crystalline species. Above 2.0 the molecular weight of silicates increases as poly merization occurs, with a step change in intrinsic viscosity. It has been found that the degree of aluminosilicate agglomeration is dramatically reduced by the use of low, e.g. 1.6 ratio si silicate. In addition, it has been found that decreasing base powder moisture tends to increase agglomeration of aluminosilicatef especially if the base granules are overdried below the level corresponding to the aluminosilicate bound moisture. It is therefore highly preferred that the process uses 1.6 ratio silicate at a level from 3 to 8 and the base powder is dried to a free moisture level of from 2 to 6 , especially about 4 . The detergent compositions herein are employed in aqueous liquros to cleanse surfaces, especially fabric surfaces, using any of the standard laundering and cleansing techniques. For example, the compositions herein are particularly suited for use in standard automatic washing machines at concentrations of from about 0.1 to about 1.5 by weight. Optimal results are obtained when the compositions herein are employed in an aqueous laundry bath at a level of at least about 0.5 by weight. As i8 the case of most commercial laundry detergent compositions, the dry compositions herein are usually added to a conventional aqueous laundry solution at a rate of about 1.0 cup 17 gallons of wash water. The detergent compositions containing such materials have a pH in the range of from about 8.0 to about 11, preferably about 9.5 to about 10.2. As in the case of other standard detergent compositions, the compositions herein function optimally within the basic pH range to remove soils e.g. triglyceride soils and stains. While the aluminosilicates herein inherently provide a basic solution, the detergent compositions comprising the aluminosilicate and the organic detergent compound can additionally contain from about 5 tc about 25 by weight of a pH adjusting agent. Such compositions can, of course, contain the auxiliary builder materials and optional ingredients as hereinbefore described. The optional pH adjusting agents useful herein include any of the water soluble, basic materials commonly employed in de tergent compositions. Typical examples of such water soluble materials include the sodium phosphates sodium hydroxide potassium hydroxide triethanolamine diethanolamine ammor hydroxide and the like. Preferred pH adjusting agents herein include sodium hydroxide and triethanolamine. In the Examples which follow. the abbreviations used ave the following designations LAS Linear C12 alkyl benzene sulfonate TAS Tallow alkyl sulfate TAE11 Tallow alconol ethoxylated with 11 moles of et l oxide per mole alcohol Dobanol 45 E 7 A C14 C15 oxo alcohol with 7 moles of ethylene oxide Dobanol 45 E 3 A C14 C15 oxo alcohol with 3 moles of ethylens oxide P5 Sodium pentapolyphosphate Silicate Sodium silicate having an SiO2 Na2O ratio of DIMA Copolymer of i isobutylene and maleic anhydride of molecular weight 30,000 Empicryl SMA Styrene maleic acid copolymer of molecular weight 300,000.The level of Zeolite A is given on an anhydrous basis the material contains 21 water of crystallisation. The present invention is illustrated by the followingExamples. EXAMPLES I III The following compositions were prepared by spray drying an aqueous slurry of the ingredients except for sodium perborate which was dry mixed to the spray dried granular composition. EXAMPLES 1 2 3LAS 8 8 13Dobanol 45 E 7 3 TAE11 3 3.5C22 soap 3 4 2Sodium tripolyphosphate 2 3 4Zeolite A particle size 5 28 26 45Gantrez AN 119 1 1 1.5Silicate 4 5 Protease enzyme 0.5 0.5 0.8Sodium perborate 30 5 Sodium sulfate 7 4 20Moisture and miscellaneous to 100 The composItions of the above examples provided excellent detergency on a wide range of fabrics and soils, and were equivalent in per formance to conventional fully phosphate built detergents. EXAMPLES IV IXExamples 4 5 6 7 8 LAS 5 8 3 TAS 3 Dobanol 45 E 7 8 2.4 1.3 TAE11 3 Dobanol 45 E 3 C12 soap 2 C22 soap 2 3 4 2 Sodium tripolyphosphate 1.0 2.5 .5 3. 1.5 P5 1.5 Zeolite A 25 30 45 Zeolite X 2 Gantrez AN 119 0.8 2.5 2. Gantrez AN 136 1.5 DIMA SMA 1.5 Silicate 3 4 5 Sodium citrate 15 Protease enzyme 0.5 0.5 0.5 Sodium perborate 32 18 19 25 TAED 1 Sodium sulphate 10 Moisture and miscellaneous Tetra acetyl ethylene diamine The compositions of the above Examples all provide good detergency performanee, comparable to conventional high phosphate compos1 tions and superior to compositions built with Zeolite A but without the minor content of phosphate and polymeric material. Similar results are achieved when the tripolyphosphate in Examples 4 6 is replaced by a P12 glassy phosphate. The anionic.nonionic active systems of Examples 6 9 can be replaced by all nonionic systems, for example, with Dobanol 45 E 7 alone or with 8 1 mixtures of, for example,Dobanol 45 E 7 and Dobanol 45 E 3 The Zeolite A in Examples 4 6 and 9 can bye replaced in whole or in part by an amorphous sodium aluminosilicate.