# N,N bis 2 3 3,5 t butyl 4 hydroxyphenyl propionyloxy ethyl oxamide, a method of making it and compositions incorporating it.

## Abstract
A novel form of N,N¹ BIS 2 3 3,4 DI TERT. BUTYL 4 HYDROXYPHENYL PROPIONYLOXY ETHYL OXAMIDE is disclosed having a melting point of about 178 C. The compound may be made by recrystallising the crude or pure low melting point form from a suitable solvent such as ethanol, isopropanol or acetone, preferably by seeding the solution with crystals of the higher melting species. The compound is useful as an antioxydant for polymeric materials, in particular polyolefins such as polyethylene or polypropylene, having a high degree of permanence.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. N,N BIS 2 3 3,5 DI TERT. BUTYL 4 HYDROXYPHENYL PROPINYLOXY ETHYL OXAMIDE characterised in that it has a melting point of about 1780C. 2. A method of making N,N BIS 2 3 3,5 DI TERT. BUTYL 4 HYDROXYPHENYL PROPIONYLOXY ETHYL OXAMIDE characterised by recrystaflising the crude or pure low melting point form from a solvent. 3. A method as claimed in claim 2 in which the solvent is ethanol, isopropanol or acetone. 4. A method as claimed in either or claims 2 or 3 in which the recrystallisation is initiated by seeding the solution with crystals of the higher melting species. 5. A method as claimed in claim 4 in which the seed crystals are prepared by column chromatography or by slow crystallisation. 6. A polymeric composition comprising a polymeric compound and N,N1 BIS 2 3 3,5 DI TERT. BUTYL 4 HYDROXYPHENYL PROPIONYLOXY ETHYL OXAMIDE having a melting point of about 1780C. 7. A composition according to claim 6 in which the N,N1 BIS 2 3 3 ,5 DI TERT. BUTYL 4 HYDROXYPHENYL PROPIONYLOXY ETHYL OXAMIDE is present in an amourtof 0.001 to 10 by weight based on the weight of the polymeric compound. 8. A composition as claimed in claim 7 in whch the N,N BIS 2 3 3,5 DI TERT. BUTYL 4 HYDROXYPHENYL PROPIONYLOXY ETHYL OXAMIDE is present in the range of from .05 to 2 by weight. 9. A composition as claimed in any of claims 6 to 8 in which the polymeric compound is a polyolefin. 10. A composition as claimed in claim 9 in which the polyolefin is polyethyelene or polypropylene. 11. A composition according to any of claims 6 to 10 in which N,N1 BIS 2 3 3,5 DI TERT. BUTYL 4 HYDROXYPHENYL PROPIONYLOXY ETHYL OXAMIDE is used in combination with another stabilise r selected from phenolic stabilisers, thio compounds, phospbites, phosphonates, and ultra violet stabilisers.

## Description
N, N bis 2 3 3, 5 t butyl 4 hydroxyphenyl propionyloxy ethyl oxamide The present invention relates to N,N bis 2 3 3 ,5 t butyl 4 hydroxyphenyl propionyloxy ethyl oxamide melting at about 178 C. U.S. Patent 4,145,556 Hirsch et al. discloses a N,N1 bis 2 3 3, 5 t butyl 4 hydroxyphenyl propionyloxy lethyl oxamide having a melting point of 134 13600. The same compound is disclosed inU.S. Patent Application S.N. 931,087 filed August 4, 1978. All organic polymeric materials are to a smaller or larger degree affected by heat and oxygen. Antioxidants are incorporated into polymers to protect them against heat and oxygen both during processing and during their service lifetime. Besides the obvious criterion of activity, such antioxidants have to meet a number of other requirements, depending on the intended end use of the polymer. Such criteria include color, odor, hydrolytic stability, resistance to leaching and permanence or lack of volatility. SeeKirk Othmer Encyclopedia of Chemical Technology. Vol. 3 p. 133,John Wiley and Sons, 1978 .Since higher processing temperatures are desirable in order to increase processing productivity, antioxidant volatility or lack thereof becomes a very important factor because such processing temperatures may cause volatilization, sublimation or decomposition of the antioxidant, reducing or even eliminating antioxidative stabilization. It is the object of this invention to provide an antioxidant with improved temperature permanence. The antioxidant is N, N bis 2 3 3,5 di tert. butyl 4 hydroxyphenyl propionyloxy ethyl oxamide melting at about 1780C. It was found, unexpectedly, that the high melting form has much improved permanence volatility characteristics. In a thermo gravimetric experiment described in Example 2, the higher melting form lost 18 of its weight while the lower melting species lost 63 of its weight The high melting form can be made readily by recrystallizing the crude or pure low melting form from a suitable solvent such as ethanol, isopropanol or acetone, preferably by seeding the solution with crystals of the higher melting species. Such seed crystals are readily prepared by column chromatography or by slow crystallization. The compound of the present invention is useful in stabilizing organic materials normally subject to oxidative degradation. Materials that are thus stabilized include a multitude of synthetic polymers. Among those polymers are various polyolefins such as polyethylene, polypropylene, polybutylene, polybutadiene and polymethylpentene. Other polymers stabilized by the compounds of the present invention include acetal resins, polyacrylates, polydialkylpthalate, cellulosics, polyamides, polyesters, polyurethanes, polycarbonate, polystyrene, polyvinyl chloride and polyvinylidene chloride.Copolymers can also be stabilized by the compound of the present invention. Representative copolymers include ethylene propylene copolymers, butadiene styrene copolymers, ethylene vinyl acetate copolymers, and ethylene ethyl acrylate copolymers. Copolymers also include terpolymers such as ethylene propylene non conjugated diene terpolymers and acrylonitrile butadiene styrene interpolymers.Polymer blends such as polystyrene polyphenylene oxide and ethylene propylene copolymer or terpolymer with polypropylene can also be stabilized by the compound of the present invention. Other materials stabilized by the compound of the present invention include hot melt adhesives such as those based on polyesters, polyamides or ethylene vinyl acetate. Also stabilized are petroleum products such as fuels, lubricating oils, petrolatum jellies, and natural products such as natural rubber, waxes, fat, tallow, linseed oil, corn oil, cottonseed oil and cod liver oil. The preceding list is representative, though by no means exhaustive, of the products that can benefit from the compound of the present invention.To achieve protection against oxidative degradation, the compound of the present invention is added in the amounts generally used for known antioxidants which may have similar properties to achieve such protection. Depending on the substrate used, the antioxidant is added in amounts of 0.001 to 10 percent by weight based on the weight of the substrate, with the usual range being from 0.05 to 2.0 percent. The compound of the present invention can be used by itself to stabilize organic materials, or it can be used in combination with other stabilizers. Such other stabilizers might include other pheno lics, thio compounds of various kinds, such as thiodipropionate esters, phosphites and phosphonates, ultraviolet stabilizers of various kinds as well as other additives where the use of such additives has been found bèneficial. The following non limiting examples further illustrate the use of the invention. Example 1 Preparation of high melting N,N bis 2 3 315 di tert. butyl 4 hydroxyphenyl propionyloxy ethyl oxamide A 25 g. sample of N,N1 bis 2 3 3,5 di tert. butyl 4 hydroxy phettyl propionyloxy3 ethyl oxamide melting at 128 1310C was dissolved in 200 ml of a 50 ethyl acetate 50 hexane mixture and passed through a 6 inch x 2 inch column packed with DavisonChemical grade 62 silica gel. On evaporation of the eluent, the residue was crystallized from ethanol. It gave a material melting at 177 1780C. All but 6 g. of the sample was recovered. Example 2 Comparison of volatility of low and high melting N,N bis 2 3 3,5 di tert. butyl 4 hydroxyphenyl propionyloxy 3 ethyl oxamide Thermograms on 10.6 mg samples of the pure melting at 177 1780 C high melting product and the pure melting at 136 1380C low melting product were run in air at a heating rate of 100C minute. The low melter had lost 62 of its initial weight by the time a temperature of 300 C was reached, but the high melting species of this invention had lost only 18 in the same period. Example 3 This example shows the usefulness of the compound of the present invention as a stabilizer in polypropylene. The compound, was incorporated into Profax 6501 trademark of Hercules Inc. for polypropylene at a concentration of 0.1 by weight, based on the weight of the poly pr y lene, on a Banbury mill at 1650C. Seventy five mil 1.9mm thick plaques were prepared by compression molding in a press at 27,000 psig 186 MPa and 1770 C. One inch diameter buttons were punched from the plaques and the specimens were placed in a forced air oven at 1490C and the number of days to embrittlement was noted. When two out of three buttons embrittied, the specimen was considered to have failed. The compound of the present invention protected polypropylene for 51 days. Unprotected polypropylene embrittles in one day.