# Process for making synthetic lubricating oils and compositions thereof.

## Abstract
High quality synthetic lubricating oils are provided wherein certain olefinic monomers such as ethylene, propylene and a third 1 olefin are copolymerized and thereafter dewaxed by means of a urea adduction process.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A process for preparing a synthetic lubricating oil from ethylene, propylene and a third higher 1 olefin having from 4 to 10 carbon atoms comprising reacting under suitable conditions ethylene, propylene and a higher 1 olefin in the presence of a a vanadium containing catalyst, b an aluminum containing catalyst, and c hydrogen and thereafter dewaxing the resultant polymer oil via urea adduction. 2. The process of claim 1 wherein the reaction is carried out under hydrogen pressure of from 250 to 2,500 psig and at a temperature of from 600 to 1500F. 3. The process of claim 2 wherein the hydrogen pressure is from 800 to 1500 psig and the temperature is from 60 to 900F. 4. The process of any one of claims 1 to 3 wherein the weight ratio of propylene to ethylene to the third 1 olefin is from 10 to 51.5 to 38.5 weight i 2. 5. The process of any one of claims 1 to 4 wherein the third 1 olefin is selected from 1 butene and 1 hexene. 6. The process of any one of claim 1 to 5 wherein the vanadium and catalyst is a vanadium oxyhalide. 7. The process of claim 6 wherein the vanadium oxyhalide is vanadium oxytrichloride. 8. The process of any one of claims 1 to 7 wherein the aluminum catalysts is an alkyl aluminum halide. 9. The process of claim 8 wherein the alkyl aluminum halide is ethyl aluminum sesquichloride or diethyl aluminum chloride. 10. A composition comprising a minor amount of a synthetic oil prepared according to the process of any one of claims 1 to 9 and a major amount of an oil of lubricating viscosity selected from synthetic, mineral or mixed synthetic mineral oils.

## Description
PROCESS FOR MAKING SYNTHETIC LUBRICATING OILS The invention is directed to a novel process for preparing synthetic lubricating oils comprising mixed polymers of ethylene, propylene and a third olefinic monomer using a Zeigler Natta catalyst system followed by a simplified dewaxing technique, urea adduction and compositions containing synthetic oils produced by the process. The present invention provides a process for preparing a synthetic lubricating oil from ethylene, propylene and a third higher 1 olefin having from 4 to 10 carbon atoms comprising reacting under suitable conditions ethylene, propylene and a higher 1 olefin in the presence of a a vanadium containing catalyst, b an aluminum containing catalyst, and c hydrogen and thereafter dewaxing the resultant polymer oil via urea adduction. The present invention further provides a composition comprising a minor amount of a synthetic oil prepared according to the process described above and a major amount of an oil of lubricating viscosity selected from synthetic, mineral or mixed synthetic mineral oils. The preparation of synthetic oils from ethylene and propylene using Ziegler Natta catalysis is not new. The existing art refers to low viscosity oils which are obtained by thermal cracking and, very likely, deep dewaxing. The art also describes high molecular weight, solid copolymers used as viscosity index improving additives. Thus in general the polymerization of olefinic mixtures using a Ziegler type catalyst is known. U.S. Patent No. 3,923,919 discloses that in producing synthetic hydrocarbon lubricating oils, the attainment of high viscosity index is generally due to the presence of at least 29 mol. of ethylene to provide an oil with low pour point and high viscosity index. Other U.S. patents with similar or related disclosures are 3,676,521, 3,737,477 and 3,851,011 and 3,923,919. However, none of these patents or the prior art in general discloses or suggests a process wherein urea adduction is incorporated into the polymerization reaction product work up procedure as a means of producing high quality synthetic oils. The prior art seems to indicate that thermal cracking and deep dewaxing are necessary to produce high quality oils having low viscosity and low pour point. We have found that copolymers of ethylene and propylene alone produce waxy oils having high viscosity index VI , high viscosity and high pour point Table 1 and that conventional, low temperature dewaxing MEK toluene does not adequately reduce viscosity or pour point semi solid at room temperature to 100F and seriously reduces finished oil yield approximately 40 loss versus a 2 4 loss using the system or process described herein . This large 40 loss explains the prior art need for thermal cracking. Urea adduction is well known and has been used in the past to treat aviation fuels and waxy lubes to preferentially remove wax like components and thereby improve low temperature flow properties and pour point.The urea dewaxing method was found inappropriate to dewax typical ethylene propylene copolymer oils Table 1, Example 2 due to their high average molecular weight and high wax content. However, the method was found very effective with an ethylene propylene terpolymer oil in accordance with this invention containing for example either 1 butene or 1 hexene Table 2, Examples 1, 2 and 4 as compared with Example 3 . The use of urea adduction as opposed to prior art dewaxing techniques results in a dramatic and unexpected change in pour point see Table 2 . Fuel economy and fuel efficient automotive oils are of great interest and importance today.Lubricant viscosity at engine operating conditions is a major contributing factor to this efficiency. Many efforts to formulate fuel efficient synthetic and semi synthetic lubricants are currently underway. This invention makes possible the development of semi synthetic and fully synthetic formulated oils with appreciably reduced viscosity at low pour point.Friction modification through educed viscosity is, of course, one possible way to achieve improved fuel economy benefits. In accordance with the invention, high quality synthetic oils are provided by a novel process comprising the incorporation of a third monomer such as 1 hexene into ethylene propylene copolymers which thereby lowers the average molecular weight, viscosity and pour point with virtually little or no effect on viscosity index see Table 2 Examples 2 and 4 as compared with Example 3 . Without this third monomer, these C2 C3 copolymer oils have high VI, high viscosity and high pour point Table 1 . The incorporation of a simplified urea adduction process into the reaction product work up thereby drastically lowers the pour point and OOF viscosity with no change in VI or viscosity at 400C and 1000C.The alpha olefins are most usually reacted in a weight ratio of ethylene to propylene to third monomer of from about 10 to 51.5 to 38.5 weight plus or minus 2 weight for each of the olefins. Generally speaking, ethylene, propylene and a suitable third alpha olefin are polymerized in any convenient manner known to the art and thereafter the terpolymer thus produced is subjected to urea adduction.That is, after polymerization, catalyst removal and filtration, the waxy terpolymer oil is treated with, for example, 40 by weight urea in a saturated absolute alcoholic solution, e.g., methanol solution. The insoluble urea wax adduct which forms immediately is removed by rapid filtration through, e.g., a glass frit filter. The filtrate, after water washing, solvent removal and vacuum filtration yields a crystal clear oil. Oils processed in this manner showed only about a 2 to 4 weight loss. The oil is then vacuum topped to achieve the desired flash point. The oil at this point is a finished oil since hydrogenation occurs during the polymerization reaction in which avanadium aluminum hydrogen catalyst system is employed. Hydrogen pressure within the below defined limits is extremely important to the success of this novel process. Hydrogen pressures from 250 to 2,500 psig and preferably from 800 to 1,500 psig are utilized herein. Reaction temperatures may vary from room temperature to 1500F. Preferable is a temperature range of from 60 to 900F. The preferred Ziegler Natta catalyst system used in this invention comprises a vanadium oxyhalide and an alkyl aluminum halide with the optimumZiegler Natta catalyst system found consisting of vanadium oxytrichloride and diethyl aluminum chloride or ethyl aluminum sesquichloride. Other catalysts such as titanium tetrachloride in place of vanadium function similarly to Friedel Crafts catalysts such as AlCl3 to produce low VI, non hydrogenated oils. However, any suitable Ziegler Natta catalyst system may be used.The mole ratio of aluminum to vanadium may vary from about 3 1 to about 9 or 10 1 depending on the specific alkyl aluminum compound used. Fluids of this type are also highly useful as base stocks for high quality synthetic lubricants. They provide an alternative to decene polymer oil, a highly desirable base stock, which is expensive and can at times be in limited supply. Presently, the best olefin derived polymer fluids are fully dependent upon the availability of 1 decene. The use of this process would allow refinery produced ethylene and propylene and other alpha olefins to be of significant commercial value as an alternative, particularly if 1 decene supply becomes a problem.Accordingly, the terpolymers embodied herein may be blended with any suitable lubricating media such as oils of lubricating viscosity including hydrocracked lubricating oils, hydraulic oils, automotive oils, gear oils, transmission fluids, waxes, greases and other forms of lubricant compositions selected from mineral oils, synthetic oils or mixtures thereof.Typical synthetic vehicles include polyisobutylene, polybutenes, hydrogenated polydecenes, polypropylene glycol, polyethylene glycol, trimethylol propane esters, neopentyl and pentaertythritol esters, di 2 ethyl hexyl sebacate, di 2 ethyl hexyl adiptate, dibutyl phthalate, fluorocarbons, silicate esters, silanes, esters of phosphorus containing acids, liquid ureas, ferrocene derivatives, hydrogenated mineral oils, chain type polyphenols, siloxanes and silicones polysiloxanes , alkyl substituted diphenyl ethers typified by a butyl substituted bis p phenoxy phenyl ether and phenoxy penylether. Table 1 is a profile of typical high quality prior art ethylene propylene copolymers having high VI, high viscosity, high pour point, and high wax content. Table 2 illustrates polymer oils Examples 1, 2 and 4 in accordance with this invention. Table 2 also illustrates the effectiveness of the dewaxing technique urea adduction used herein. It can be readily discerned from an examination of Tables 1 and 2 that the process of this invention results in a copolymer which is outside the limits of prior art copolymers. For example, U.S. Patent No. 3,676,521 teaches that at least 29 mol percent ethylene is required to produce high quality ethylene propylene copolymer oils. The maximum used herein is about 10 weight 2 . Examples 1, 2 and 4 illustrate the present invention. Example 3 is included for comparison purposes. Example 1 The polymerization was performed in the following sequence in a one gallon stirred autoclave having all the necessary attendant equipment One liter of n hexane solvent was charged to the autoclave with cooling water at 650F circulating through the jacket. The autoclave was purged with nitrogen to remove all air. Under nitrogen, diethyl aluminum chloride co catalyst 0.2475 mole in n heptane was injected via syringe into the solvent and vanadium oxytrichloride catalyst 0.0165 mole in n heptane was then injected in the same manner. The unit was pressurized with 1,200 psig of hydrogen. Here hydrogen is a chain terminator which controls molecular weight and also regenerates the catalyst while simultaneously hydrogenating the polymer product as it is formed .Simultaneously, 2.4 moles 10.2 weight of ethylene .was charged to the unit via a calibrated rotameter while the mixture of propylene 8.0 moles, 51.3 weight and 1 hexene 3.0 moles, 38.5 weight was charged to the unit from a calibrated pressurized burette. After the monomer feed period and hold period, 1 propanol was added to quench the catalyst. The stirrer was then stopped and unreacted hydrogen and gaseous feedstock were vented through a wet test meter.The reaction product was then first washed with diluteHCl, and dilute NARC03 and finally with distilled water and the product solvent mixture filtered through fluted filter paper to remove solid polymer. The hexane solvent and any light products were distilled off to a pot temperature of 1800C at atmospheric pressure. The total polymer oil product was vacuum topped using a 12 Vigreux distillation column to a head temperature of 1250C at 1.0 mm in order to obtain a residual topped product having approximately a 4000F flash point. One half of the topped oil was vacuum filtered through HiFlo filter aid to yield the non dewaxed oil described in Table 2. The other half of the topped oil was mixed with n hexane and treated with 40 by weight of urea in a saturated absolute methanol solution. The solid, white urea wax adduct, which formed instantly, was removed by filtration. The dewaxed product solvent mixture was water washed and the solvent removed by distillation. The final, dewaxed polymer oil product was vacuum filtered through HiFlo filter oil to give a clear, water white oil as described in Table 2. Example 2 The procedure of Example 1 was repeated except that 4.5 moles 38.5 weight of 1 butene were used as the third monomer and 0.1475 mole of Et 3AlC13 was used as the co catalyst. Example 3 The procedure of Example 1 was followed, however, this example did not use a third mononer, thereby changing the weight ratio of ethylene to propylene 16.7 to 83.3 weight . Also 0.0246 mole of Et 3 AlCl3 was used and the resultant polymer oil was not subject to urea adduction. Example 4 The procedure of Example 1 was repeated except that 0.0246 mole of Et 3 AlCl3 was used. TABLE 2 ETHYLENE PROPYLENE TERPOLYMER OILS EFFECT OF THIRD MONOMER AND UREA ADDUCTIONExample No. 1 2 3 4SOLVENT n hexane 1.0 1.0 1.0 1.0C2H4 moles 2.4 2.4 2.4 2.4 wt. 10.2 10.2 16.7 10.2C3H6 moles 8.0 8.0 8.0 8.0 wt. 51.3 51.3 83.3 51.3Third monomer type 1 C6H12 1 C4H8 1 C6H12 moles 3.0 4.5 3.0 wt. 38.5 38.5 38.5Catalyst type VOCl3 VOCl3 VOCl3 VOCl3 moles 0.0165 0.0165 0.0165 0.0165Co catalyst type Et 2AlCl Et 2AlCl Et 3AlCl3 Et 3AlCl3 moles 0.2475 0.1475 0.0246 0.0246Al V mole ratio 9 1 9 1 3 1 3 1Hydrogen psig 1200 1200 800 1200Reaction Temp., F 75 74 77 73Feed Time hrs. 1.5 1.5 1.5 1.5Hold Time hrs. 3.0 3.0 3.0 3.0Conversions of FeedTotal conversion 48.1 38.0 83.5 57.9Solid Polymer 3.2 3.9 10.0 2.6Total Oil 44.9 34.1 73.5 55.3Topped Oil 22.8 17.9 57.4 34.4Properties w o urea with urea with urea w o urea with ureaAppearance hazy, white clear clear hazy, white clearKV commat 100 C 6 66 6.73 13.22 31.46 12.05KV commat 40 C 34.85 35.64 86.07 278.30 85.22VI 150 149 154 154 135KV commat 0 F 6640. 1430 Pour F 35 65 60 0 65Flasch F 375 375 400 375 TABLE 1 TAPICAL ETHYLENE PROPYLENE COPOLYMER OILSExample No.A B C DSOLVENT n hexane . 1.0 1.0 1.0 1.0C2H4 moles 2.4 2.4 2.4 2.4 wt. 16.7 16.7 16.7 16.7C3H6 moles 8.0 8.0 8.0 8.0 wt. 83.3 83.3 83.3 83.3Catalyst type VOCl3 VOCl3 VOCl3 VOCl3 moles 0.0165 0.0165 0.0165 0.0165Co Catalyst type Et 2AlCl Et 2AlCl Et 3AlCl3 Et 3AlCl3 moles 0.1475 0.1475 0.1475 0.0246Al V mole ratio 9 1 9 1 9 1 3 1Hydrogen psig 400 800 1200 800Reaction Temp., F 80 75 73 77Feed Time hrs. 1.0 1.5 1.5 1.5Hold Time hrs. 1.0 3.0 3.0 3.0Conversions of FeedTotal conversion 63.0 65.3 52.1 83.5Solid Polymer 9.6 13.0 8.9 10.0Total Oil 53.4 52.3 43.2 73.5Topped Oil 42.1 39.4 23.3 57.4PropertiesAppearance opaque, white opaque, white opaque, white opaque, whiteKV commat 100 C 47.59 210 F 28.50 21.07 31.46KV commat 40 C 494.64 100 F 204.30 161.40 278.30VI 162 179 154 154Pour F 10 0 0 0Flasch F 400 400 Atempted dewaxing by urea adduction.