# Process for preparing arylsulfonyl isocyanates by phosgenation of arylsulfonamides, and the products of the process and their use.

## Abstract
An improved process for preparing arylsulfonyl isocyanates by phosgenation of arylsulfonamides in the presence of a catalytic quantity of a hydrocarbyl isocyanate and a catalytic quantity of a tertiary amine base. The sulfonyl isocyanates are useful intermediates.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A process for preparing an arylsulfonyl isocyanate in which an arylsulfonamide is phosgenated in the presence of a catalytic quantity of a hydrocarbyl isocyanate, wherein the improvement comprises conducting the reaction in the presence of a catalytic quantity of a tertiary amine base. 2. The process of claim 1 wherein the tertiary amine base is selected from the group consisting of pyridine, triethylamine, 1,4 diazabicyclo 2,2,2 octane, 4 dimethylaminopyridine, N,N dimethylaniline, trimethylamine, N ,N diethylaniline, N methylpiperidine, and N,N dimethylpiperazine. 3. The process of claim 2 wherein the tertiary amine base is 1 ,4 diazabicyclo 2,2,2 octane. 4. The process of claim 2 wherein the tertiary amine base is triethylamine. 5. The process of any one of the preceding claims wherein the hydrocarbyl isocyanate is selected from the group consisting of C4 C10 alkyl isocyanates and C5 8 cycloalkyl isocyanates. 6. The process of any one of the preceding claims wherein the tertiary amine base is present in an amount of about 0.2 to 5.0 grams per mole of arylsutfonamide. 7. A process as claimed in any one of the preceding claims wherein the arylsulfonyl isocyanate prepared is of the formula EMI12.1 wherein X is H, C1, F, Br, NO2, CH3 or OCH3 and Y is H, Cl, F, Br, CH3, or OCH3. 8. A process for preparing an arylsulfonyl isocyanate of the formulaEMI12.2 wherein X is H, Cl, F, Br, NO2, CH3 or OCH3 and Y is H, Cl, F, Br, CH3 or OCH3 by phosgenation of the appropriate arylsulfonamide in the presence of a catalytic quantity of a hydrocarbyl isocyanate selected from the group consisting of C4 CiO alky1 isocyanates and C5 C8 eycloalkyl isocyanates, wherein the improvement comprises conducting the reaction in the presence of about 0.2 to 5.0 grams of 1,4 diazabicyclo 2,2,2 octane per mole of aryIsulfonamide. 9. An arylsulfonyl isocyanate when prepared by a process as claimed in any one of the preceding claims. 10. A chemical compound when prepared by using a compound as claimed in claim 9 as intermediate.

## Description
Improved Process for Preparing Árylsulfonyl Isocyanates by Phosgenation of Arylsulfonamides, and the products of the prooess Arylsulfonyl isocyanates are known to be useful intermedates in the production of a variety of compounds. They can be used for preparing hypoglycemic drugs as described in Logemann et al., Chem Abs. 53, 18052g, 1959 and Wojciechowski, J. Acta. Polon. Pharm., 19, 121 125 1962 , as well as for preparing novel herbicides such as those described in U.S. 4,127,405 and U.S. 4,120,691. It is known in the art to prepare arylsulfonyl isocyanates by the reaction of the corresponding arylsulfonamides with phosgene in an inert solvent.As described in British Patent No. 692,360, this reaction requires a temperature in the range of 160 to 2500 as well as a large excess of phosgene. U.S. Patent 3,371,114 and U.S. Patent 3,484,466 teach the preparation of arylsulfonyl isocyanates by phosgenation of arylsulfonamides in the presence of a catalytic quantity of a hydrocarbyl isocyanate.This reaction is carried out in an inert solvent at a temperature between 60 and 2000C. The phosgenation of N arylsulfonyl N alkylureas at temperatures of from 0 to 1750C to prepare arylsulfonyl isocyanates is described in U.S. Patent 3,379.758. In U.S. Patent 3,689,549, the phosgenation of a sulfonamide in a sulfolane solvent is taught to produce a sulfonyl isocyanate of increased purity. German Patent 2,152,971 teaches a process for preparing sulfonyl isocyanates by reacting sulfonamides with phosgene in an inert solvent, in which the reaction is carried out in the presence of mono and or poly primary amines in such an amount that there is less than 0.1 equivalent of primary amino groups per equivalent of sulfonamide groups. Although the prior art describes several processes for preparing arylsulfonyl isocyanates, there exists a need for an even more efficient and econominal process for preparing these useful compounds. Summary of the Invention According to this invention, there is provided an improved process for preparing arylsulfonyl isocyanates by the phosgenation of an arylsulfonamide in the presence of a catalytic quantity of a hydrocarbyl isocyanate and a catalytic quantity of a tertiary amine base. This new and improved process results in the formation of the desired arylsulfonyl isocyanates in improved yields and purity and can be run at lower temperatures and in a shorter reaction time than prior art processes. Thus, considerable savings in materials and energy may be effected. Detailed Description of the Invention The preparation of the arylsulfonamides used in the process claimed herein is known in the art. The preparation of arylsulfonamides from ammonium hydroxide and arylsulfonyl chloride is widely reported in the literature, e.g., Crossley et al., J. Am. Chem. Soc.60, 2223 1938 . Certain arylsulfonyl chlorides are best prepared by chlorosulfonation of a substituted benzene in carbon tetrachloride according to the teaching of H. T. Clarke et al., Org. Synth. Coll.Vol. 1, 2nd Ed., 1941, p. 85. Other benzenesulfonyl chlorides are best made by diazotization of the appropriate aniline with sodium nitrite in HC1, followed by reaction of the diazonium salt with sulfur dioxide and cuprous chloride in acetic acid according to the teaching of H. L. Yale andF. Sowinski, J. Org. Chem. 25, 1824 1960 . The process of this invention may be illustrated by the following formula EMI3.1 tb SEP hydrocarbyl tb Ar SO2NH2 SEP SEP COC12 SEP isocyanatey SEP Ar S02NCO SEP SEP 2HC1 tb SEP tert. SEP amine tb SEP base tb Equation 1 U.S. Patent 3,371,114, herein incorporated by reference, teaches the use of a catalytic quantity of a hydrocarbyl isocyanate in a phosgenation reaction of this type. The arylsulfonamides employed as starting materials in this process are as described in that patent. Basically, the arene moiety of the arenesulfonamide can be the residue of any monocyclic or polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbon.Examples of suitable arene moieties are phenyl, napthyl, biphenylyl, phenanthryl, and anthracenyl, all of which can be substituted by groups unreactive with phosgene. The following process is of particular interest due to the usefulness of the compounds formed thereby as intermediates for preparing novel herbicides. An arylsulfonamide of the formula EMI3.2 wherein X is H, C1, F, Br, NO2, CH3 or OCH3 and Y is H, C1, F, Br, CH3 or OCH3 is phosgenated in the presence of a catalytic quantity of a hydrocarbyl isocyanate and a catalytic quantity of a tertiary amine base to produce an arylsulfonyl isocyanate of the formulaEMI4.1 wherein X and Y are as defined above. The hydrocarbyl isocyanates which are useful in the processzclaimed herein are also described in the above cited patent, U.S. 3,371,114. As disclosed therein, the only limitation on the nature of the hydrocarbyl moiety is that it should be free from substituents which are reactive with phosgene.Preferred in this invention for reasons of efficiency and economy are the C4 C10 alkyl isocyanates and the C C8 cycloalkyl isocyanates. For the purposes of this invention, a catalytic quantity of hydrocarbyl isocyanate will generally consist of an amount equal to about 0.2 to 1.0 mole of hydrocarbyl isocyanate per mole of arylsulfonamide. The improvement over the prior art found in the claimed process lies in carrying out the phosgenation reaction in the presence of a catalytic quantity of a tertiary amine base. Any tertiary amine base free of substituents reactive with phosgene may be used.Classes of tertiary amines which could be used include, but are not limited to, aliphatic, cycioaliphatic, aliphaticaromatic, heterocyclic and aliphaticheterocyclic amines. Preferred for reasons of availability are those tertiary amines containing from three to ten carbon atoms and one to two nitrogen atoms. Examples of such bases are pyridine, triethylamine, 1,4 diazabicyclol2,2,2 octane, 4dimethylaminopyridine, N ,N dimethylaniline, trimethylamine, N,N diethylaniline, N methylpiperidine, and N,N1 dimethylpiperazine. Preferred for reasons of efficiency and economy are 1,4 diazabicyclol2,2,2 octane and triethylamine. The tertiary amine base must be present in a catalytic quantity. This will generally be in the range of about 0.2 to 5.0 grams of base per mole of arylsulfonamide. The process of this invention is generally carried out within a temperature range of about 100 1750C although temperature is not critical. Pressure is also not critical, and atmospheric pressure is typically used. The time required for the reaction to go to substantial completion may be readily monitored by techniques familiar to one skilled in the art, e.g., titration of the effluent hydrogen chloride gas or infrared analysis of the reaction mixture. Typically, the reaction time will be in the range of about 1 to 24 hours. A suspension of the appropriate arylsulfonamide in an inert solvent, a catalytic quantity of hydrocarbyl isocyanate and a catalytic quantity of a tertiary amine base are heated, with stirring, to reflux. The solvent can be any inert solvent with a boiling point within the range of about 100 2000C examples of suitable solvents are xylene, chlorobenzene, mesitylene, toluene, pentachloroethane and octane. Phosgene is then introduced under a refrigerated reflux condenser at such a rate that the temperature of the reaction mass is maintained at about 5 to 80C below the boiling point of the solvent. Following the phosgene addition, the reaction mixture is heated to drive off the small amount of excess phosgene, and is then cooled and filtered to remove small amounts of any by product. The filtered solution can be used d irectly to make compounds such as hypoglycemic agents or herbicides. Alternatively, the product can be isolated by evaporation of the solvent and the hydrocarbyl isocyanate, leaving the high boiling arylsulfonyl isocyanate as a residue. Generally, these arylsulfonyl isocyanates can be distilled at reduced pressure or used without further purification. The following examples are provided to more fully illustrate the invention but are not to be construed as limiting the scope thereof. Example 1 A series of runs were made to demonstrate the beneficial effect of the tertiary amine base on the rate of the phosgenation reaction claimed herein. To a flask fitted with a water condenser, 19.2 g of o chlorobenzenesulfonamide were heated to reflux with 100 ml solvent, and any moisture present was eliminated by decantation. A dry ice condenser was then placed on top of the water cooled reflux condenser. The tertiary amine base and 2.0 g butyl isocyanate were then added, and the reaction mixture was refluxed for 15 minutes. Phosgene was then admitted into the vapor space of the flask at such a rate that the temperature of the reaction mass was maintained about 5 80C below the boiling point of the solvent. As phosgene refluxed from the dry ice condenser, HC1 escaped the dry ice condenser and was absorbed in water and titrated with 1N NaOH. The rate at which HC1 was formed was then plotted vs.time and is indicated in the attached figure for the various tertiary amine bases used as catalyst. Phosgenation Run No. Solvent Temperature cc 1 Xylenes 133 135 2 3 4 5 6 7 Toluene 103 105 8 o dichlorobenzene 173 175 Amount ofRun No. Tertiary Base Base g 1 None 2 1,4 Diazabicyclo 2,2,2 octane 0.10 3 4 Dimethylaminopyridine 0.20 4 N,N Dimethylaniline 0.21 5 Triethylamine 0.20 6 Pyridine 0.42 7 Triethylamine 0.20 8 Triethylamine 0.20 Example 2 A suspension of 452 g of 2,5 dichlorobenzene sulfonamide, 260 g of cyclohexylisocyanate and 10.0 g of Dabco 1,4 diazabicyclo 2,2,2 octane in 2000 ml chlorobenzene was heated for one hour to reflux in a flask fitted with a water condenser and dry ice condenser in series, a stirrer and a thermometer.Phosgene was then added into the vapor space of the flask at such a rate that the temperature of the reaction mass was maintained at 123 1250C due to reflexing phosgene. During 3 hours of operation a total of 260 g of phosgene was added. The dry ice condenser was then removed and the reaction iass refluxed to drive off excess phosgene until the temperature reaches 134 C. After cooling to room temperature and filtration, the solvent and cyclohexylisocyanate were recovered by distillation at 100 mm pressure. The resulting residue was then distilled at lower pressure. Obtained were 378 g 75 yield of 2,5 dichlorobenzenesulfonylisocyanate B.P. 105eC .35 mm . The improved yields obtained using the process claimed herein can be seen by comparing the yield obtained in the above example 75 with the 32 yield reported for the preparation of 2,5 dichlorobenzene sulfonylisocyanate in the absence of a tertiary amine base. U.S. Patent 3,484,466 and J. Org. Chem.31, 2660 1966 . Example 3 In a flask fitted with a water condenser and dry ice condenser in series, a stirrer and a thermometer, a suspension of 191.6 g of o chlorobenzenesulfonamide in 500 ml xylene was dried by azeotropically removing any moisture present.Next, 2.0 g of triethylamine and 20 g of butyl isocyanate were added, and the reaction mixture was refluxed for 15 minutes. 105 g of phosgene was then introduced over 2.5 hours at such a rate that a temperature of 133 1350C was maintained. The dry ice condenser was then removed and the reaction mass was refluxed until a temperature of 1420C was obtained. After cooling to room temperature and filtration, the solvent and butyl isocyanate were removed under vacuum and the residue was distilled. Obtained were 196 g 90.0 yield of o chlorobenzenesulfonyl isocyanate B.P. 960C 0.5 mm . Example 4 A 12 liter flask, fitted with a water condenser amd dry ice condenser in series, a mechanical stirrerand a thermometer, was charged with 7 liters of xylenes and 1225 g of o nitrobenzenesulfonamide. The slurry was heated and dried by azeotropically removing any moisture present. After cooling to 1200C, 250 g of butyl isocyanate and 4.0 g Dabco were added and the reaction mixture was refluxed for 45 minutes. 636 g of phosgene were then introduced over a period of 10 hours at such a rate that the temperature of the reaction mass was maintained at 130 1350C. The dryice condenser was then removed and the reaction mass was refluxed to eliminate excess phosgene. After cooling to room temperature and filtration of a few solids, analysis of the filtrate showed the presence of 14.03 Wit. o nitrobenzenesulfonyl isocyanate 75 yield from the sulfonamide . The xylene solution of the isocyanate was then used directly for further reaction to produce an herbicidal sulfonylurea.