# A 30912 H type antibiotics, their preparation and use.

## Abstract
A process for the preparation of antibiotic A 30912 factor H, its lower alkyl ether homologs and the tetrahydro derivatives of its homologs having the structural formula

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. An A 30912H type antibiotic which has the structural formula EMI43.1 wherein R1 is linoleoyl or stearoyl and R is C1 C6 alkyl, subject to the proviso that when R is methyl R1 is linoleoyl. 2. The A 30912 type antibiotic of claim 1 wherein R1 is linoleoyl and R is tCl C6 alkyl. 3. The A 30912H type antibiotic of claim 1 wherein R1 is linoleoyl and R is methyl, that is, antibiotic A 30912 factor H. 4. The A 30912H type antibiotic of claim 1 wherein R1 is linoleoyl and R is propyl. 5. The A 30912H type antibiotic of claim 1 wherein R1 is linoleoyl and R is hexyl. 6. The A 30912H type antibiotic of claim I wherein RÚ is stearoyl and R is C2 C6 alkyl. 7. A process for preparing an A 30912H type antibiotic which has the structural formula EMI44.1 wherein R1 is linoleoyl or stearoyl and R is C1 C6 alkyl, subject to the proviso that when R is methyl R1 is linoleoyl, characterized by reacting a compound ofFormula II EMI45.1 wherein R2 is linolecyl or stearoyl A when R2 is linoleoyl, with I an alcohol of the formula ROH wherein R is defined as above or 2 an alcohol of the formula R OH wherein R is C2 C6 alkyl B when Rê is stearoyl, with an alcohol of the formula R30H in a polar inert solvent or in an excess of the reactant alcohol at 0 C to 700C. under acidic conditions and when the alcohol R3OH is reacted with a compound ofFormula II wherein R2 is linoleoyl, optionally, reducing the linoleoyl group in the resulting compound to stearoyl. 8. The process of claim 7 for preparing theA 30912H type antibiotic of formula I wherein R1is linoleoyl and R is CH3, that. is antibiotic A 30912 factor H, characterized by reacting A 30912 factor A, dissolved in dimechylformamide with acidic methanol HC1 at room temperature with overnight stirring followed by evaporation to dryness and purification by high pressure chromatography. 9. A pharmaceutical formulation which comprises the active ingredient an A 30912H type antibiotic which has the structural formula I as described in claim 1, associated with a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier therefor. 10. An A 30912H type antibiotic which has the structural formula I as described in claim 1 for use as an antifungal agent for treating fungal infections in mammals. 11. An A 30912 H type antibiotic according to any of claims 1 to 6 substantially free from impurity.

## Description
A 30912 H TYPE ANTIRIOTICS, THEIR PREPARATION AND USE. This invention relates to A 30912 factor H, a new antibiotic factor isolated from the A 30912 antibiotic mixture, to the lower alkyl ether homologs ofA 30912 factor H, and to the tetrahydro derivatives of the homologs of this new factor. These novel compounds have the structural formula I EMI1.1 wherein R1 is linoleoyl or stearoyl and R is C1 C6 alkyl, subject to the proviso that when R is methyl, R is linoleoyl. When R1 is linoleoyl and R is methyl, the compound is A 30912 factor H when R2 is stearoyl and R is methyl, the compound is tetrahydro A 30912 factor H. These compounds are prepared by reactingA 30912 factor A or tetrahydro A 30912 factor A with the appropriate alcohol. The tetrahydro derivatives can also be made by reducing the corresponding linoleoyl compound. The A 30912 antibiotic mixture is described by Marvin M. Hoehn and Karl H. Michel in U.S. Patent 4,024,245. Prior to the present invention, seven individual factors of the A 30912 mixture had been recognized. These factors were designated A 30912 factors A, B, C, D, E, F, and G. The newly isolated antibiotic substance of this invention has been designated A 3092 factor H. For convenience herein,A 30912 factor H will be abbreviated A 30912H andA 30912H, the lower alkyl homologs of A 30912H, and their tetrahydro derivatives will be called A 30912Htype antibiotics. The purpose of this invention is the disclosure of A 30912H type antibiotics of formula I and a process for preparing them from the A 30912 factor A or the tetrahydro A 30912 factor A. The A 30912H type antibiotics are especially useful as antifungal agents. This invention provides an A 30912H antibiotic which has the structural formula EMI3.1 wherein R1 is linoleoyl or stearoyl and R is C1 C6 alkyl, subject to the proviso that when R is methylR1 is linoleoyl. This invention also provides a process for preparing an A 30912H type antibiotic which has the structural formula I, as before described, whereinR1 is linoleoyl or stearoyl and R is C1 C6 alkyl, subject to the proviso that when R is methyl R1 is linoleoyl, characterized by reacting a compound ofFormula II EMI4.1 wherein R2 is linoleoyl or stearoyl A when R2 is linoleoyl, with 1 an alcohol of the formula ROH wherein R is defined as above or 2 an alcohol of the formula R30H wherein R3 is C2 C6 alkyl B3 when R2 is stearoyl, with an alcohol of the formula R3OHi in a polar inert solvent or in an excess of the reactant alcohol at 0 C to 70 C. under acidic conditions and when the alcohol R OH is reacted with a compound ofFormula II wherein Rê is linoleoyl, optionally, reducing the linoleoyl group in the resulting compound to stearoyl. This invention also provides a pharmaceutical formulation which comprises the active ingredient, an A 30912H type antibiotic which has the structural formula I as before described, associated with a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier therefor. This invention also provides an A 30912H type antibiotic which has the structural formula I as before described for use as an antifungal agent for treating fungal infections in mammals by the administration of an effective amount thereof. The A 30912 antibiotic mixture, from which the new antibiotic factor of this invention can be isolated, is produced by culturing a strain of Aspergillus rugulosus NRRL 8113 under submerged aerobic fermentation conditions as described in U.S. Patent 4,024,245.Another method for preparing A 30912H is by culturingAspergillus nidulans var. roseus, NRRL 11440, to give the A 42355 antibiotic mixture and isolating A 30912H from this mixture. This process is described in the copending application of LaVerne D. Boeck and Ralph E.Kastner entitled PROCESS OF PRODUCING THE A 30912ANTIBIOTICS. Description of the Drawings The infrared absorption spectrum of A 30912 factor H in KBr disc is presented in Figure 1 of the accompanying drawings. Figure 2 of the accompanying drawings summarized the relative movements of the A 30912 factors on thin layer chromatography TLC , using silica gel Merck Darmstadt adsorbent, an ethyl acetate methanol 3 2 solvent system, and Candida albicans bioautography for detection. The arrow indicates the direction of solvent flow the indicates the point of origin.The area where minor factors E, F, and G may be seen is indicated by bracketing. Specific Rf comparisons between A 30912 factor A and minorXfactors E, F, and G are found in U.S. Patent 4,024,245 see Table I in column 4 . Detailed Description This invention relates to new antifungal agents. These agents include A 30912H, a newly discovered factor from theA 30912 antibiotic mixture, lower alkyl homologs of A 30912H and the tetrahydro derivatives of these homologs. This invention further relates to the method using tetrahydro A 30912H as an antifungal agent. The tetrahydro derivatives ofA 30912H and its homologs are prepared by reduction of these compounds. The A 30912 antibiotic mixture can be prepared as described inU.S, Patent 4,024,245, which its incorporated herein by reference. The A 30912 antibiotic mixture can also be prepared by culturingAspergillus nidulans var. roseus, NRRL 11440, as herein described. A 30912H is a new factor of the A 309i2 antibiotic mixture. The term antibiotic mixture 1 as used in the fermentation art and in this specification refers to a mixture of co produced individual antibiotic factors. As will be recognized by those familiar with antibiotic production by fermentation, the ratio of individual factors produced in an antibiotic mixture will vary, depending on the fermentation conditions used. Under conditions known thus far, A 30912H is a minor factor in the A 30912 mixture, being present in amounts in the range of from 0.01 to 1.0 percent of the total mixture. Another minor factor of the A 30912 mixture has been recognized, but has not been isolated in an amount sufficient for characterization.A 30912 factor H is best separated from this factor by silicagel TLC using an ethyl acetate methanol 3 2 or an acetonitrile water 95 5 solvent system. In either system, the minor factor is more polar than the otherA 30912 factors. A. A 30912 Factor H A 30912 factor H, the newly discovered component of the A 30912 antibiotic mixture, is a polypeptide antibiotic which is quite similar to A 30912 factor A. Recently, evidence has shown that A 30912 factor A is identical to echinocandin B see F. Benz et al., Helv Chim. Acta 57, 2459 2477 1974 and SwissPatent 568,386 Derwent Abstract 75884W . AntibioticSL 7810 F has also been identified as echinocandin B see C. Keller Juslen, et al., Tetrahedron Letters 1976 46 , 4147 4150, and Belgium Patent 834,289 DerwentAbstract 30159X . Keller Juslen, et al., proposed structures 2 and 3 for echinocandin B SL 7810 F A 30912 factor A and its tetrahydro derivative, respectively EMI8.1 2 R2 linoleoyl echinocandin B 3 R2 stearoyl tetrahydro echinocandin B The elemental analysis of A 30912 factor H corresponds especially well with the empirical formula of C53H83N7O16H2O Calcd. C, 58.30 H, 7.79 N, 8.98 O, 24.93 . The infrared absorption spectrum of A 30912 factor H in RBr disc is shown in Figure 1 of the accompanying drawings. The following characteristic absorption maxima are observed 2.9 very strong , 3.4 strong , 3.5 medium , 5.9 6.1 very strong , 6.6 strong , 6.9 strong , 7.9 8.1 medium , and 9.1 strong microns. The ultraviolet absorption spectra of A 30912 factor H in both neutral and acidic methanol exhibit absorption maxima at 223 nm e 13,100 and 275 nm, broad peak E 2,100 . The ultraviolet spectrum of A 30912 factor H in basic methanol shows absorption maxima at 245 nm e 14,700 and 290 nm, broad peak 8 3,500 , and also end absorption. The 13c nuclear magnetic resonance spectrum of A 30912 factor H in perdeuteromethanol shows the following characteristics 6 176.07, 174.15, 173.49, 172.56, 172.47, 169.88, 158.45, 133.01, 130.90, 129.52, 129.04, 116.21, 82.15, 77.00, 75.98, 75.71, 71.27, 69.55, 69.42, 68.22, 62.44, 58.69, 57.25, 56.81, 56.08, 52.88, 51.32, 39.08, 38.60, 36.89 , 32.65, 30.77, 30.45, 30.26, 28.18, 27.14, 26.55, 20.11, 19.60, 11.33. A 30912 factor H has the following approximate specific rotations 25 CH3OH 151 c 0.5, CH3OH Electrometric titration of A 30912 factor H in 66 aqueous dimethylformamide indicated the presence of a titratable group with a pKa value of about 12.90 initial pH 7.12 . A 30912 factor H is soluble in a variety of organic solvents such as methanol, ethanol, dimethylformamide, dimethyl sulfoxide, and ethyl acetate but is insoluble in nonpolar organic solvents such as diethyl ether and petroleum ether. A 30912 factor H is also soluble in aqueous solutions, especially those having a pH greater than 7.0. A 30912 factor H mol. wt. 1073 differs from A 30912 factor A mol. wt. 1059 by only 14 mass units. Both compounds are very similar in physicalchemical properties, and both compounds produce linoleic acid upon hydrolysis. A 30912H has an additional CH2 which is present as O CH3, replacing one of the OH groups in the cyclic peptide portion of the molecule. A 30912H and tetrahydro A 30912H have structures 4 and 5, respectively EMI10.1 4 R linoleoyl 3 R stearoyl B. Homologs of A 30912 Factor H Following the discovery of the structure ofA 30912 factor H, the fact that lower alkyl C2 C6 ether homologs of A 30912 factor would be useful products became appreciated. Prior to this time, the lower alkyl ether derivatives of A 30912 factor A which had been prepared were not recognized as having a useful purpose and were prepared only as structure determination tools. The lower alkyl ether homologs ofA 30912 factor H are prepared from A 30912 factor A. A 30912 factor A may be produced by fermentation of 1 a strain of Aspergillus rugulosus NRRL 8113 as described in U.S. Patent 4,024,245 2 a strain of Aspergillus nidulans NRRL 8112 as described in U.S. Patent 4,024,246 3 a strain of Aspergillus nidulans var. echinulatus A 32204, NRRL 3860 as described in Swiss Patent 568,386 or 4 a strain of Aspergillus rugulosus NRRL 8039 as described in Belgian Patent 834,289. Another method for preparing A 30912 factorA by fermentation of Aspergillus nidulans var. roseusNRRL 11440 is described in the co pending Boeck et al.application.C. Preparation of A 30912 Factor H A 30912 factor H is isolated from the A 30912 antibiotic mixture. The A 30912 mixture can be prepared as described in U.S. Patent 4,024,245. Alternatively, A 30912 factor H can be isolated from the A 42355 mixture. A 42355 mixture is prepared by culturing a new variety of Aspergillus nidulans, named A. nidulans var. roseus, as herein described. This culture has been deposited and made a part of the stock culture collection of the NorthernRegional Research Center U.S. Department of Agriculture,Agricultural Research, Peoria, Illinois 61604, from which it is available to the public under the numberNRRL 11440. A sample of the same microorganism has been deposited in the culture collection of the American Type CultreCollection on 5th June 1980 under the number ATCC 20O00. Taxonomy of Aspergillus nidulans var. roseus The Aspergillus nidulans var. roseus culture which is useful fcr producing the A 30912 antibiotics was studied and characterized by Thomas H. Sands of the Lilly Research Laboratories. For convenience herein, this new culture will be called culture A42355. The taxonomic basis upon which this culture is classified as a new variety of Aspergillus nidulans is discussed in the following paragraphs. In this discussion, the terms ISCC NBS refer to color names based on the ISCC NBS method K. L. Kelly and D. B. Judd, The ISCC NBS Methods or Designating Colors and A Dictionary of Color Names, U.S. Department of Commerce, Circ. 553, Washington, D.C., 1955 . The term Maerz and Paul refers to color blocks described by A. Maerz and M. R. Paul in Dictionary of Color, McGraw Hill Book Company, New York, N.Y., 1950. Comparisons are based on the work of R. B. Raper and D. I. Fennel, The Genus Aspergillus, Williams and Wilkins, 1965. Culture A42355 attains a diameter of 14 mm in seven days and 35 mm in 21 days when grown on Czapek s solution agar at 250C. The colony surface is radially buckled, convex and initially velutinous to slightly floccose. The surface appearance changes with age due to the formation of a pink exudate that, after drying occurs, results in a pocked surface. The margin is strongly crenate to lobate and sharply delineated, showing only scant peripheral subsurface growth. As the colony ages, pigment variation causes a zonate effect. The reverse surface appears concave and in contact with the agar only in the periphery. A pink soluble pigment is produced. The mycelial mat is very tough and produces no distinctive odor.Pigmentation in young colonies is influenced by immature conidia which are light greenish yellow ISCC NBS 101 and Maerz and Paul ll K l . This color eventually is confined to the colony periphery. After 10 days, subspherical masses of hülle cells encrusting blackish purple cleistothecia are scattered throughout the colony but are most noticable clustered in the center In 21 days, the narrow, slightly flattened margin is grayish greenish yellow ISCC NBS 105 and Maerz and Paul 12 1 2 . Inside this margin, the colony is moderate yellowish pink ISCC NBS 29 and Maerz and Paul ll A 6 , and the color is influenced by the exudate. After 21 days, the center is darkened by grayish green conidia and hülle cell encrusted blackish purple cleistothecia. The reverse ranges from light brown ISCC NBS 57 andMaerz and Paul 13 A 7 to moderate reddish brown ISCC NBS 43 and Maerz and Paul 6 F 9 . In three weeks or more, the reverse is in shades of very dark purple, nearly black. The conidial head at first is radiate and bright yellow and then becomes dark green and tightly columnar. When mature, heads ra nge from 93.4 to 116.7 p long and have an average size of 106 u x 47 p. The vesicle is somewhat spathulate to pyriforme and, like the conidiophore, is light brown. Vesicles are fertile over the upper two thirds and range in size from 10 to 12 u x 8 to 10 p average size 9.2 p x 11.3 p . Conidiophores are sinuous, smooth and relatively thick walled. They range in length from 88 u to 112 p average 101 p . Although they range in width from 4 to 6 p, most are 6 V wide. Sterigmata are biseriate, hyaline to light brown and are smooth walled. Primary sterigmata are nearly cuneiform. They are from 6.3 p to 10.3 V long and from 2 p to 3 V wide at their widest point average size 9.3 p x 2.7 p . Secondary sterigmata are between ovoid and obpyriform and range from 5.5 V to 11.0 V x from 2.4 p to 3.2 p average size 9.9 p x 2.9 p .Conidia are globose, delicately roughened to echinulate and dark green. They range from 2.4 to 4.0 p and average 3.2 p in diameter On malt extract agar at 350C, a 14 mm diameter colony is produced in seven days. The colony diameter will achieve 30 mm in 21 days. Initially, the colony consists of white aerial hyphae. Conidiation occurs in the first week, and the relatively flat, velutinous, crenate colony becomes dark yellowish green ISCC NBS 137 and Maerz and Paul 24 J 6 . The colony appears z onate due to concentric rings of yellow spherical masses of hülle cells that surround or encrust dark purple cleistothecia. The conidiogenous state on malt extract agar resembles that state on Czapek s solution agar except for dimensions. Conidial heads range in length from 100 p to 170 V and average 138 V x 50 p in size. Conidiophores are from 100 p to 210 V long average 182 and are 6 p wide. Vesicles are from 8 V to 12 V x from 6 p to 12 V average size 12 V x 9.2 p . Primary sterigmata are from 5.5 p to 8.7 p x 2.4 p to 4.0 V average size 7.2 p x 6.6 p .Secondary sterigmata are 5.5 p to 10.3 p x 2.0 p to 3.6 p average size 7.4 Ç x 3.5 p . Conidia are from 2.3 to 3.2 p, but average 3.2 , in diameter. The ascogenous state is similar on both agars. Numerous dark purple cleistothecia are encrusted with globose to subglobose, thick walled, hyaline topale yellow hlle cells which are from 12.6 V to 18.2 p in diameter average size 15.3 p . Cleistothecia are globose to subglobose and have walls up to three layers thick, the outer layer consisting of pseudoparenchymatous cells. Cleistothecia range in diameter from 140 p to 800 p, but are mostly 165 p to 250 p with an average diameter of 229 p. The eight spored hyaline asci are globose to subglobose or irregularly ellipsoidal.When globose, they are 9.2 p in diameter with little deviation from this size. Ellipsoidal asci are 9.3 p x 8.3 p. Ascospores are orange red pigmented, globose in the surface view and lenticular in the lateral view.Two delicately pleated, entire, parallel equatorial crests are seen in the long axis of the lenticular view. In the surface view, a single crest is seen peripheral to the main spore body which is smooth and of bivalve construction. The crest is 0.5 p wide the spore body is 4.4 p in diameter. The average lenticular view size is 4.7 p x 3.7 p. Yellowish green rugulose conidia, columnar conidial heads1 smooth walled light brown conidiophores and vesicles, biseriate sterigmata and the production of globose, thick walled hülle cells place A42355 in the Aspergillus nidulans group. These characteristics, combined with the fact that the culture has an ascogenous state in which dark purple globose cleistothecia are closely associated with, or even encrusted with, hülle cells as above and has orange red lenticular ascospores which are adorned with two pleated, parallel equatorial crests, place A42355 in the genus Emericella, the perfect state of the A. nidulans group. A42355 does not fully fit the description of any of the published species or varieties in the A.nidulans group. The species most similar to A42355 isA. nidulans Eidam Wint., based on the type cultureWB187 NRRL 187 . These cultures are similar in color and ascospore type, but differ in crest width. Cleistothecia are similar, but the wall of A42355 is a multilayer of cells instead of a single layer. Both cultures exhibit a yellow green, predominant conidial stage on malt extract agar, but the ascogenous state ofA42355 is more strongly evident than is that of the type culture where it is partially overgrown and is dully pigmented. In both cultures, the hyphae, conidiophores and vesicles are smooth walled, without encrustment however, the vesicle of A42355 is spathulate to pyriforme, whereas the vesicle of A. nidulans is hemispherical.Colonies of A42355 and A. nidulans when grown on Czapek s solution agar differ in growth rate, exudate production, abundance and size of conidial heads and in most other measured dimensions. Although there are similarities betweenA42355 and A. nidulans Eidam Wint., there are sufficient significant differences that A42355 is considered a new variety which has been designated A. nidulans var. roseus. Cultivation of A. rugulosus NRRL 8113 Cultivation conditions for A. rugulosus NRRL 8113 are described in U.S. Patent 4,024,245. Cultivation of A. nidulans var. roseus The culture medium used to grow Aspergillus nidulans var. roseus can be any one of a number of media. For economy in production, optimal yield and ease of product isolation, however, certain culture media are preferred Thus, for example, a preferred carbon source in large scale fermentation is cottonseed oil or glucose, although molasses, starch, dextrin, lactose, sucrose, maltose, glycerol, fatty acids and the like may be used. Preferred nitrogen sources are enzyme hydrolyzed casein, soybean meal and soluble meat peptone, although distiller s grains, nitrate salts, monosodium glutamate and the like may be used Nutrient inorganic salts can be incorporated in the culture media.These include the customary soluble salts capable of yielding sodium, magnesium, zinc, iron, calcium, ammonium, chloride, carbonate, sulfate, nitrate, phosphate and the like. Essential trace elements necessary for the growth and development of the organism should also be included in the culture medium. Such trace elements commonly occur as impurities in other constituents of the medium in amounts sufficient to meet the growth requirements of the organism. It may be necessary to add small amounts i.e., 0.2 ml L of an antifoam agent such as polypropylene glycol to large scale fermentation media if foaming becomes a problem. For production of a substantial quantity of the A 30912 antibiotic mixture, submerged aerobic fermentation in tanks is preferred. Small quantities of the A 30912 antibiotic mixture may be obtained by shake flask culture. Because of the time lag in antibiotic production commonly associated with inoculation of large tanks with the spore formof the organism, it is preferable to use a vegetative inoculum. The vegetative inoculum is prepared by inoculating a small volume of culture medium with the spore form or mycelial fragments of the organism to obtain a fresh, actively growing culture of the organism. The vegetative inoculum is then transferred to a larger tank. The medium used for the growth of the vegetative inoculum can be the same as that used for larger fermentations, but other media can also be used. A. nidulans var. roseus can be grown at temperatures between 20 and 430C the organism grows best at temperatures of 30 370C. Optimum production of theA 30912 antibiotic mixture occurs at temperatures 300C. As is customary in aerobic submerged culture processes, sterile air is blown through the culture medium. For efficient antibiotic production, there should be sufficient aeration and agitation to maintain a dissolved oxygen level of at least 40 of air saturation at atmospheric pressure. Agitation is also helpful in breaking up the thick and heavy culture growth during the fermentation. Production of the A 30912 antibiotic mixture can be followed during the fermentation by testing samples of fermented broth or alcoholic extracts of the biomass or the whole broth for antibiotic activity against an organism known to be sensitive to theA 30912 antibiotics. One assay organism useful in testing for the presence of the A 30912 antibiotic mixture is Candida albicans. The bioassay is conveniently performed by paper disc or agar well assay on seeded agar plates. Generally, antibiotic activity can be detected by the second day of fermentation. Maximum production of antibiotic activity usually occurs between about the sixth and the eighth days. A 30912 factor H can be identified and separated from the remainder of the A 30912 mixture by TLC. Silica gel is a preferred adsorbent. Figure 2 of the drawings shows the movement of A 30912H in relationship to that of the other A 30912 factors in a silica gel TLC system. The approximate Rf values ofA 30912 factors A, B, C, D, and H in different solvent systems, using silica gel TLC Merck Darmstadt silica gel num 60 plates, 20 x 20 cm and detecting via Candida albicans bioautography, are given in Table I. TABLE IA 30912 Factor Rf Values Solvent Systems a b c d Factor A 0.28 0.14 0.28 0.43 Factor B 0.39 0.21 0.42 0.47 Factor C 0.46 0.31 0.51 0.58 Factor D 0.50 0.38 0.57 0.61 Factor H 0.42 0.27 0.36 0.53 Solvent Systems a ethyl acetate methanol 3 2 b ethyl acetate methanol 7 3 c acetonitrile water 95 5 d ethyl acetate ethanol acetic acid 40 60 0.25 A 30912 factor H can be recovered from the fermentation medium by methods known in the fermentation art. Maximum recovery is accomplished by extraction of the whole broth. It is preferable to add an equal volume of methanol to the whole broth and to lower the pH of the whole broth to about pH 4 6 before extraction. Chloroform is an especially advantageous solvent for extracting A 30912 factor H, although other such solvents may be used. A 30912 factor H may be isolated from the separated A 30912 or A 42355 mixture by chromatography using various adsorbents. Suitable adsorbents include silica gels such as Quantum LP 1 reversed phase resins such as silica gel C8, silica gel C18, LiChroprepRP 8 or RP 18 Florisil Sephadex G 25, LH 20, andG 15 alumina Diaion HP 20 and Amberlite XAD 4 andX 384.Diaion is available from Mitsubishi ChemicalIndustries, Tokyo the Amberlite resins are available from Rohm and Haas Co., Philadelphia, Pa. the Sephadex resins are avai lable from Pharmacia Fine Chemicals AB,Uppsala, Sweden Florisil is available from FloridinCo., Tallahassee, Fla and silica gel C8, silica gel C18, LiChroprep RP 8 and RP 18 are available from E. Merck, Darmstadt, Germany. The preparation of a high loading capacity silica gel C18 from LP 1 silica gel Whatman is described in Example 6. Reversed phase high performance, low pressure liquid chromatography HPLPLC using silica gel C18 adsorbent is a preferred method for final purification of A 30912 factor H. In this method, the A 30912 or A 42355 mixture obtained, for example, by extraction of the whole broth or mycelia with methanol and chloroform , dissolved in methanol water acetonitrile 7 2 1 , is placed on a column equilibrated with the same solvent. The column is then eluted with the same solvent. Fractions collected are monitored by Candida albicans bioautography and or by W based on relative retention times . Fractions containing A 30912 factor H are combined. It is sometimes necessary to carry out an additional chromatographic separation in order to obtain A 30912 factor H in purified form. A 30912 factors A, B, D and H can be separated by HPLPLC using the following conditions Column glass, 0.8 x 15.0 cm Packing Nucleosil 10 Machery Nagel and Compay packed using slurry packing pro cedure of Example 7 Solvent methanol water aceto nitrile 7 2 1 Sample Volume 8 mcl Sample Size 8 mcg Column Temperature ambient Flow Rate 1.8 ml min Pressure ca. 200 psi Detector W at 222 nm ISCO Model 1800 Variable Wavelength W Visible Absorbance Monitor Pump LDC Duplex Minipump Injection loop injectionThe approximate retention times for A 30912 factors A, B, D, and H under these conditions are summarized inTable II. Table II Retention Time A 30912 Factor seconds A 792 B 870 H 990 D 1,140 Tetrahydro A 30912H can be prepared by standard hydrogenation techniques, carrying out the reduction until both double bonds of the linoleoyl side chain have been reduced.D. PreDaration of the A 30912H Homologs The A 30912H antibiotics of formula I whereinR is C2 C6 alkyl the A 30912H homologs are prepared by reaction of An. 30912 factor A or tetrahydro A 30912A with the appropriate corresponding alcohol to prepare the desired C2 C6 ether derivative. Since A 30912 factor A is the major component of the antibiotic mixtures in which it is produced, this method is also a preferred way of preparing A 30912 factor H and tetrahydro A 309 12H. The A 30912H homologs of formula I wherein R1 is stearoyl and R is C2 C6 alkyl can be prepared by a preparing tetrahydro A 30912A and reacting with the appropriate alcohol to form the ether derivative, or b reacting A 30912 factor A with the appropriate alcohol to form the ether derivative and then reducing the double bonds of the linoleoyl side chain. Tetrahydro A 30912A, tetrahydro A 30912H, and the compounds of formula I wherein R is C2 C6 and R1 is stearoyl are prepared from A 30912 factors A and H and from the compounds of formula I wherein R is C2 C6 and and R is linoleoyl by standard hydrogenation techniques, carrying out the reduction until both double bonds of the linoleoyl side chain have been reduced. The A 30912H type antibiotics are antifungal agents which are especially active against Candida species. This invention relates further, therefore, to a method of treating fungal infections in mammals which comprises administering to the mammal an effective amount of an A 30912H type antibiotic. The results of tests which illustrate this antifungal activity are summarized in Tables III and IV. In these tests the antifungal activity was measured by the disc diffusion method 6 mm pads were dipped in solutions containing test compounds pads were placed on agar plates seeded with the test organism . Table III gives the minimal inhibitory concentration MIC per disc at whichA 30912H inhibited the test organism. TABLE III Test Organism MIC mcg disc Candida albicans 1.25 Trichophyton mentagrophytes 0.078Table IV gives the diameters in mm of the observed zones of inhibition for typical A 30912H type derivatives. The test compounds were compounds of formula I wherein R1 is linoleoyl the pads were dipped in solutions containing 10 mg ml of test compound . TABLE IVTest Organism Zone diameters mm R n propyl R n hexylNeurospora crass a 20 25Candida albicans 16 14Trichophyton mentagrophytes 35 35 In addition, in standard agar dilution testsA 30912H showed MIC s of 100 mcg ml against bothBlastomyces dermatitidis and Histolasma capsulatum. The A 30912H type antibiotics are relatively non toxic. When used as antifungal agents, A 30912Htype antibiotics are administered parenterally and are commonly administered together with a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier or diluent. The dosage used will depend upon a variety of conditions such as the nature and severity of the particular infection involved. In order to illustrate this invention more fully, the following examples are provided. EXAMPLE 1Preparation of A 30912 Factor H from A 42355 MixtureA. Shake Flask Fermentation A culture of Aspergillus nidulans var.roseus NRRL 11440 is prepared and maintained on an 18 x 150 ml agar slant prepared with medium having the following composition Ingredient Amount Glucose 5g Yeast extract 2g CaCO3 3g Vegetable juice 200 ml Agar 20 g Deionized water q.s. to 1 liter initial pH 6.1 V 8 Juice, Campbell Soup Co., Camden, N.J. Meer Corp.The slant is inoculated with Aspergillus nidulans var.roseus NRRL 11440, and the inoculated slant is incubated at 250C. for about seven days. The mature slant culture is covered with water and scraped with a sterile loop to loosen the spores. The resulting suspension is further suspended in 10 ml of sterile deionized water. One ml of the suspended slant growth is used to inoculate 55 ml of vegetative medium in a 250 ml flask. The vegetative medium has the following composition Ingredient Amount Sucrose 25 g Blackstrap molasses 36 g Corn steep liquor 6 g Malt extract 10 g K2HPO4 2g Enzymatic hydrolysate of casein 10 g Tap water 1100 ml initial pH 6.5 6.7 N Z Case, Humko Sheffield Chemical, Lyndhurst, N.J. The inoculated vegetative medium is incubated at 250C.for 48 hours at 250 rpm on a rotary type shaker. After 24 hours, the medium is homogenized for one minute at low speed in a blender Waring type and then returned to incubation for the remaining 24 hours. Alternatively, the inoculated vegetative medium can be incubated for 48 hours and then homogenized for 15 seconds at low speed. This incubated vegetative medium may be used to inoculate shake flask fermentation culture medium or to inoculate a second stage vegetative medium. Alternatively, it can be stored for later use by maintaining the culture in the vapor phase of liquid nitrogen. The culture is prepared for such storage in multiple small vials as follows The vegetative cultures are mixed volume volume with a suspending solution having the following composition Ingredient Amount Glycerol 20 ml Lactose 10 g Deionized water q.s. to 100 mlThe prepared suspensions are distributed in small sterile screw cap tubes 4 ml per tube . These tubes are stored in the vapor phase of liquid nitrogen. A stored suspension thus prepared can be used to inoculate either agar slants or liquid seed media.Slants are incubated at 250C. in the light for 7 days.B. Tank Fermentation In order to provide a larger volume of in oculum, 10 ml of incubated first stage vegetative culture is used to inoculate 400 ml of a second stage vegetative growth medium having the same composition as that of the vegetative medium. The second stage medium is incubated in a twb liter wide mouth Erlenmeyer flask at 250C. for 24 hours on a shaker rotating through an arc two inches in diameter at 250 rpm. Incubated second stage medium 800 ml , prepared as above described, is used to inoculate 100 liters of sterile production medium selected from one of the following MEDIUM I Ingredient Amount ZnSO47H2O 0.00455 g L Soluble meat peptone 30.5 g L Soybean meal 15.5 g L Tapioca dextrin 2.0 g L Blackstrap molasses 10.5 g L Enzymatic hydrolysate of casein 8.5 g L Na2HPO4 4.5 g L MgSO47H2O 5.5 g L FeSO4.7H2O 0.1g L Cottonseed oil 40.0 ml Antifoam 1.0 ml Tap water 1000.0 ml initial pH 6.8 7.0 O.M. Peptone, Amber Laboratories, Juneau, Wisc. t Stadex 11, A.E. Staley Co., Decatur, Ill. N Z Amine A, Humko Sheffield Chemical, Lyndhurst, N.J. P2000, Dow Corning, Midland, Mich. MEDIUM II Ingredient Amount Glucose 2.5 Starch 1.0 Soluble meat peptone 1.0 Blackstrap molasses 1.0 CaCO3 0.2 MgSO4 7H2O 0.05 Enzymatic hydrolysate of casein 0.4 Antifoam 0.028 Tap water q.s. to volume O.M. Peptone N Z Amine A Antifoam nor, Dow CorningThe inoculated production medium is allowed to ferment in a 165 liter fermentation tank at a temperature of 250C. for about 7 days. The fermentation medium is aerated with sterile air, maintaining the dissolved oxygen level above 50 percent of air saturation.C. Third Stage Vegetative Medium Whenever the fermentation is carried out in tanks larger than those used for 100 liter fermentation1 it is recommended that a third stage vegetative culture be used to seed the larger tank. A preferred third stage vegetative medium has the following composition Ingredient Amount Sucrose 25 g Blacks trap molasses 25 g Corn steep liquor 6 g Enzymatic hydrolysate of casein 10 g Malt extract 10 g K2HPO4 2g Tap water 1000 ml initial pH 6.1 N Z CaseD. Separation of the A 42355 Mixture Whole fermentation broth 4127 liters , obtained by the method described in example 1 using production medium II, was stirred thoroughly with methanol 4280 liters for one hour and then was filtered, using a filter aid Hyflo Super cel, a diatomaceous earth, Johns Manvile Products Corp. .The pH of the filtrate was adjusted to pH 4.0 by the addition of 5 N HC1. The acidified filtrate was extracted twice with equal volumes of chloroform. The chloroform extracts were combined and concentrated under vacuum to a volume of about 20 liters. This concentrate was added to about 200 liters of diethyl ether to precipitate the A 42355 mixture. The precipitate was separated by filtration to give 2775 g of the A 42355 mixture as a gray white powder. EXAMPLE 2Isolation of A 30912 Factor H from A 42355 Mixture A 42355 antibiotic mixture 5.0 g , prepared as described in Example 1, was dissolved in 35 ml of methanol water acetonitrile 7 2 1 the resulting solution was filtered and introduced onto a 3.7 cmI.D. x 42 cm glass column Michel Miller Column through a loop with the aid of a valve system. The column was packed with LP l C18 silica gel reversed phase resin 10 20 microns in methanol water acetonitrile 7 2 1 as described in Example 7. The solvent was moved through the column at a flow rate of 13 ml min at ca. 120 psi as described in Example 3, collecting one fraction every two minutes. Elution of the antibiotic was monitored at 280 nm as described in Example 3. Fractions 112 132 were combined with fractions 106 117 from a second similar purification.The combined fractions were concentrated under vacuum to an oil. The oil was dissolved in a small volume of tert butanol and lyophilized to give 173 mg of crudeA 30912 factor H. The crude A 30912 factor H 150 mg was dissolved in 8 ml of methanol water acetonitrile 7 2 1 the resulting solution was filtered and introduced onto a 2.0 cm I.D. x 32 cm glass column, as described above.The solvent was moved through the column at a flow rate of 8 ml min at ca. 80 psi as described in Example 3, collecting one fraction every three minutes. Elution of the antibiotic was monitored at 280 nm as described in Example 3. Fractions 17 and 18 were combined and concentrated under vacuum to give an oil. The oil was dissolved in a small volume of tert butanol and lyophilized to give 29 mg of A 30912 factor H. EXAMPLE 3Isolation of A 30912 Factor H from A 30912 Mixture A 30912 antibiotic mixture 6 g , prepared as described in U.S. Patent 4,024,245, was dissolved in 33 ml of methanol water acetonitrile 7 2 1 , filtered and introduced onto a 4.7 cm I.D. x 45 cm glass column Michel Miller High Performance LowPressure HPLPLC Chromatography Column, Ace Glass,Inc., Vineland, NJ 08360 through a loop system with the aid of a valve system. The column was packed withLP l C18 silica gel reversed phase resin 10 20 microns , described in Example 6. Packing was accomplished in methanol water acetonitrile 7 2 1 by the slurry packing procedure described in Example 7.AnF.M.I. pump with valveless piston design maximum flow 19.5 ml min was used to move the solvent through the column at a flow rate of 14 ml min 100 psi , collecting fractions having a volume of approximately 14 ml. Elution of the antibiotic was monitored at 280 nm, using a W monitor ISCO Model UA 5, InstrumentSpecialist Co., 4700 Superior Ave., Lincoln, Nebraska 68504 with an optical unit ISCO Type 6 . Fractions 109 151 were combined and concentrated under vacuum to give an oil. The resulting oil was dissolved in tert butanol 50 ml . This solution was lyophilized to give 2.927 g of A 30912 factor A. Fractions 152 185 were combined and concentrated under vacuum to give an oil. The resulting oil was dissolved in a small volume of tert butanol. This solution was lyophilized to give 46.6 mg of crude A 30912 factor H. EXAMPLE 4Purification of A 30912 Factor H Partially purified A 30912 factor H 597 mg , prepared as described in Example 3, was dissolved in 3 ml of methanol water acetonitrile 7 2 1 , filtered, and introduced onto a 3.7 cm I.D. x 35 cm glass column Michel Miller Column through a loop with the aid of a valve system. The column was packed with LP l C18 silica gel reversed phase resin as described in Example 3 in methanol water acetonitrile 7 2 1 . The solvent was moved through the column at a flow rate of 7. 5 ml min 100 psi , collecting fractions every minute. Elution of the antibiotic was monitored at 280 nm, using a W monitor ISCO Model UA 5 with an optical unit ISCO Type 6 . Fractions 159 190 were combined and added to 100 ml of water. The pH of the solution was adjusted to 4.0 with 1N HC1. This solution was extracted twice with equal volumes of chloroform. The two chloroform extracts were combined and concentrated under vacuum to give an oily residue. This residue was dissolved in a solution of tert butanol 20 ml containing a few ml of methanol. The resulting solution was lyophilized to give 222 mg of purified A 30912 factor H. EXAMPLE 5PreParation of Tetrahydro A 30912H A 30912H, prepared as described in Example 2 or 4, is dissolved in ethanol. PtO2 in absolute ethanol is reduced to form Pt, which in turn is used to reduce the A 30912H catalytically, using hydrogenation under positive pressure until the reaction is complete about 2 3 hours . The reaction mixture is filtered and concentrated under vacuum. The residue is dissolved in a small amount of tert butanol and lyophilized to give tetrahydro A 30912H. EXAMPLE 6 Preparation of Silica Gel C18 Reversed Phase ResinStep 1 Hydrolysis LP 1 silica gel 1000 g from Quantum Corp., now Whatman is added to a mixture of concentrated sulfuric acid 1650 ml and concentrated nitric acid 1650 ml in a 5 L round bottom flask and shaken for proper suspension. The mixture is heated on a steam bath overnight 16 hours with a water jacketed condenser attached to the flask. The mixture is cooled in an ice bath and carefully filtered using a sintered glass funnel. The silica gel is washed with deionized water until the pH is neutral. The silica gel is then washed with acetone 4 L and dried under vacuum at 1000C. for 2 days. Step 2 First Silylation The dry silica gel from Step 1 is transferred to a round bottom flask and suspended in toluene 3.5L . The flask is heated on a steam bath for 2 hours to azetrope off some residual water Octadecyltrichlorosilane 321 ml, Aldrich Chemical Company is added, and the reaction mixture is ref fluxed overnight 16 hours with slow mechanical stirring at about 60OC. Care is taken so that the stirrer does not reach near the bottom of the flask. This is to prevent grinding the silica gel particles. The mixture is allowed to cool. The silanized silica gel is collected, washed with toluene 3 L and acetone 3 L , and then air dried overnight 16 20 hours . The dried silica gel is suspended in 3.5 L of acetonitrile water 1 1 in a 5 L flask, stirred carefully at room temperature for 2 hours, filtered, washed with acetone 3 L and air dried overnight.Step 3 Second Silylation The procedure from the first silylation is repeated using 200 ml of octadecyltrichlorosilane. The suspension is refluxed at 60 C. for 2 hours while stirring carefully. The final product is recovered by filtration, washed with toluene 3 L and methanol 6 L , and then dried under vacuum at 500C. overnight 16 20 hours . EXAMPLE 7Slurry Packing Procedure for Michel Miller ColumnsGeneral InformationA. Analytical or preparative columns can be packed by this procedure.B. Silica gels and silica gel reversed phase packings e.g., Quantum LP 1, particle size 10 20 microns LiChroprep RP 8 and RP 18, particle size 25 40 microns are recommended. However, other silica gels e.g.,Shandons ODS Hypersil, particle size 5 microns as well as other types of resins have been packed successfully by this procedure.C. Generally, a pressure of less than 200 psi and flow rates between 5 40 ml minute are required for this slurry packing technique this is dependent on column volume and size. PTFASE NOTE Packing pressure should exceed pressure used during actual separation by 30 50 psi this will assure no further compression of the adsorbent during separation runs. Columns packed by this procedure with reversed phase silica gel can be operated for several years without loss of efficiency.D. Sudden decrease in pressure may cause cracks or channels to form in the packing material, which would greatly reduce column efficiency. Therefore, it is important to let the pressure drop slowly to zero whenever the pump has been turned off. E. Approximate volume of columns Ace Glass Cat. No., unpacked 5795 04, 12 ml 5795 10, 110 ml 5795 16, 300 ml 5795 24, 635 ml and 5796 34, 34 ml.F. The time required to pack a glass column will vary from minutes to several hours depending on column size and experience of the scientist.Example 1. Connect glass column to a reservoir column via coupling volume of reservoir column should be twice that of the column . Place both columns in vertical positions reservoir column above .2. Weigh out packing material 100 g for 200 ml column .3. Add five volumes of solvent to packing material use a mixture of 70 808 methanol and 20 30 water.4. Shake well until all particles are wetted, let stand overnight or longer to as sure complete soaking of particles by solvent. Decant supernatant.5. Slurry the resin with sufficient solvent to fill reservoir column. Pour swiftly into reservoir. NOTE The column must be pre filled with the same solvent and the reservoir column should be partly filled with solvent before slurry is poured. The use of larger slurry volumes may also provide good results however, this will require a larger reservoir or b multiple reservoir fillings during the packing procedure.6. Close reservoir with the Teflon plug beneath the column see Figure 1 of U.S. Patent 4,131,547, plug No.3 connect to pump and immediately start pumping solvent through system at maximum flow rate if Ace Cat.No. 13265 25 Pump or similar solvent delivery system is used 20 ml minute .7. Continue until column is completely filled with adsorbent. Pressure should not exceed maximum tolerance of column during this operation 200 psi for large columns and 300 psi for analytical columns . In most cases, pressures less than 200 psi will be sufficient.8. Should pressure exceed maximum values, reduce flowrate pressure will drop.9. After column has been filled with adsorbent, turn off pump let pressure drop to zero disconnect reservoir replace reservoir with a pre column fill pre column with solvent and small amount of adsorbent and pump at maximum pressure until column is completely packed. For additional information, see general procedure.NOTE Always allow pressure to decrease slowly after turning off pump this will prevent formation of any cracks or channels in the packing material.10. Relieve pressure and disconnect pre column carefully. With small spatula remove a few mm 2 4 of packing from top of column place 1 or 2 filter s in top of column gently depress to top of packing material, and place Teflon plug on top of column until seal is confirmed. Connect column to pump, put pressure on usually less than 200 psi and observe through glass wall on top of column if resin is packing any further. If packing material should continue to settle this may be the case with larger col umns , some dead space or channelling will appear and step 9 should be repeated. EXAMPLE 8Preparation of A 30912 Factor H from A 30912 Factor A A 30912 factor H is prep ared from An 30912 factor A using the following procedure Antibiotic A 30912 factor A 19.6 mg is dissolved in dimethylformamide 1 ml . Acidic methanol 3 HC1, 0.06 ml is added to this solution. The resulting solution is stirred at room temperature overnight and then is evaporated to dryness under vacuum.The residue obtained is chromatographed byHPLPLC as described in Example 2, using reversed phase silica gel LP l C181 prepared as described in Example 6 and CH3OH H2O CH3CN 7 2 1 . as the eluting solvent to give 14 mg of A 30912 factor H the compound of formula I wherein R is methyl and R1 is linoleoyl . EXAMPLE 9 The A 30912H type antibiotic of structure I wherein R is ethyl and R1 is linoleoyl is prepared and purified by the method of Example 8, except that ethanol is used in the reaction instead of methanol. EXAMPLE 10 The A 30912H type antibiotic having structureI wherein R is n propyl and R1 is linoleoyl is prepared and purified by the method of Example 8, except that n propanol is used in the reaction instead of methanol. EXAMPLE 11 The A 30912H type antibiotic having structureI wherein R is isobutyl and R1 is linoleoyl is prepared and purified by the method of Example 8, except that isobutanol is used in the reaction instead of methanol. EXAMPLE 12 The A 309l2H type antibiotic of structure I wherein R is n pentyl and R1 is linoleoyl is prepared and purified by the method of Example 8, except that n pentanol is used in the reaction instead of methanol. EXAMPLE 13 The A 30912H type antibiotic of structure I wherein R is n hexyl and R1 is linoleoyl is prepared and purified by the method of Example 8, except that n hexanol is used in the reaction instead of methanol. EXAMPLE 14 The A 30912H type antibiotic having structureI wherein R is ethyl and R is stearoyl is prepared and purified by the method of Example 8, except that tetrahydro A 30912 factor A is used instead of A 30912 factor A and ethanol is used instead of methanol in the reaction. EXAMPLE 15 The A 30912H type antibiotic having structureI wherein R is 2 ethyl l butyl and R1 is linoleoyl is prepared and purified by the method of Example 8, except that 2 ethyl l butanol is used instead of methanol in the reaction EXAMPLE 16 The A 30912H type antibiotic having structureI wherein R is 3 methyl 1 butyl and R1 is linoleoyl is prepared and purified by the method of Example 8, except that 3 methyl l butanol is used instead of methanol in the reaction. EXAMPLE 17 The A 30912 type antibiotic having structureI wherein R is n propyl and R1 is stearoyl is prepared and purified by the method of Example 10 except that tetrahydro A 30912 factor A is used instead of A 30912 factor A. EXAMPLE 18 The A 30912 type antibiotic having structureI wherein R is isobutyl and R1 is stearoyl is prepared by hydrogenation of the compound wherein R is isobutyl and R1 is linoleoyl prepared as in Example 11 according to the method of Example 5.