# Feathering windmill.

## Abstract
This invention relates to a windmill, a windmotor, windmachine or windturbine that has rotatable blades capable of being rotated by the natural wind or an artificial wind. The invention further relates to a windmill of the kind in which a housing support journals a rotor comprising a hub having a plurality of radially placed blades of aerofoil section that rotate in a plane substantially normal to the direction of the wind. The windmill is characterised in that each blade P₁ is variable in pitch or effective pitch through substantially a right angle to a feathered position that brakes said rotor, said variability being effected by weights 14₁, 14₂ of a centrifugal governor 14 , said weights being rotatable in a plane W₁W₂ substantially parallel to the said plane R₁R₂ normal to the wind, said governor acting directly on a pitch change shaft 11 directly mechanically connected to each blade or a part of said blade said pitch change shaft 11 being co axial with said hub. The invention also includes balance weights Figure 6B m

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A windmill of the kind set forth, characterised in that each blade is variable in pitch or effective pitch through substantially a right angle to a feathered position that brakes said rotor, said variability being effected by weights of a centrifugal governor, said weights being rotatable in a plane substantially parallel to the said plane normal to the wind, said governor acting directly on a pitch change shaft directly mechanically connected to each blade or a part of said blade said pitch change shaft being co axial with said hub. 2. The windmill according to claim i characterised in that the governor is provided with an override lever that acts on the pitch change shaft. 3. The windmill according to claim 2 characterised in that the lever is a lever of the third order. 4. The windmill according to claim 2 or claim 3 characterised in that the lever is actuable by means remote from the windmill. 5. The windmill according to claim 4 characterised in that the said means is a manual line operable by a winch. 6. The windmill according to any preceding claim wherein a blade has means at least along part of the span to change its effective pitch. 7. The windmill according to claim 6 characterised in that said means is a variable flap. 8. The windmill according to any preceding claim characterised in that a blade is provided at a distance along its span with a balance weight having a weight X at a radius X above the blade chord at an angle p according to the equation EMI14.1 where EMI15.1 is the total compensation mass is the total blade mass is the radius of a two mass equivalent system. is the angle of attacK is the operating radius of the mass is the angle between the mass radius X and the blade chord.

## Description
DESCRIPTION This invention relates to a windmill by which term is meant a windmotor, windmachine or windturbine that has rotatable blades capable of being rotated by the natural wind or an artificial wind as for example generated by the movement of a body in flight. The invention further relates to a windmill of the kind hereinafter referred to as the kind set forth in which a housing support journals a rotor comprising a hub having a plurality of radially placed blades of aerofoil section that rotate in a plane substantially normal to the direction of the wind. According to the present invention there is provided a windmill of the kind set forth characterised in that each blade is variable in pitch oz cffect ve pitch trough substantially a right angle to a feathered position that brakes said rotor, said variability being effected by weights of a centrifugal governor, said weights being rotatable in a plane substantially parallel to the said plane normal to the wind, said governor acting directly on a pitch change shaft directly mechanically connected to each blade or a part of said blade said pitch change shaft being co axial with said hub. In a preferred construction an override lever is provided that is able to override the governor pitch setting and to feather the blades to bring the rotor to rest into what is termed in the art a parked condition, the rotor remaining generally fully into the wind. The invention will be more fully understood from the following description given by way of example with reference to the Figures of the accompanying drawings in which Figures iA, 1B, IC are schematics showing normal running conditions, a governing condition and a parked condition for a windmill. Figures 2 and 3 are respectively a part side sectional elevation and an end elevation in third angle orthographic projection of one mechanism inside the housing support, for effecting the pitch control and override shown in Figures iA, iB, IC. Figure 4 is a side elevation partly in section of the pitch change mechanism of Figures 2 and 3 at the blade root, and Figure 5 is a general view of a windmill of Figures 1 to 4 on a tower superstructure with a winch. Figures 6A and 6B are schematics of a mathematical analysis of a blade. Referring now to the figures of the drawing. In Figures IA, lB, iC a windmill of the kind set forth has a single propeller blade PI of a rotor of three blades connected by a toggle means 10 directly to a pitch change shaft 11 that is spring urged by a helical compression spring 12 in the direction of arrow A and able to be moved in the direction of arrow B by a lever 13 pivoted at 131 that is directly controlled at pivot 132 by a flyweight governor 14 having two weights l4l, 142 and a spring bias 143. The governor 14 is rotated at a speed N in excess of the rotor speed n by means of the gears Gl, G2 in gear box 15. Gear G2 being keyed at 16 to rotor hub shaft 17.The rotor rotates in a plane shown by line R1, R2 and the governor weights 141, i42 rotate in a plane Wi, W2 substantially parallel to R1, R2. An override lever 18 pivoted at 181 and spring urged at 182 by spring 191 in the direction of arrow C is able to be pulled at position 183 in the direction of arrow D. Consider the conditions as shown inFigure lA to be that of a normal running of the rotor with propeller blade PI at pitch angle In Figure 13 the rotor speed has increased over that obtaining in Figure 1A and the governor weights 131, 132 have extended themselves from the diameter dl they enjoyed in Figure lA to the diameter d2 drawing lever 13 and pitch change shaft 11 in the direction of arrow E and changing the pitch of propeller blade P1 from pitch angle alto pitch angle a2.The override lever 18 is now moved in the direction of arrow F Figure 1C and this forces lever 13 at 132 via 184 in the direction of arrow H drawing with it pitch change shaft 11 and thereby changing the pitch of propeller blade Pi to the feathered condition as shown by line ppi substantially parallel to the wind direction arrow J. The override lever 18 may be actuated most conveniently remote from the windmill such as from a manual line 19 that is, when the windmill is on a tower structure, operated from a simple winch not shown at the base of the tower not shown . Referring now to Figures 2 and 3 rotor hub shaft 17 may have for example a speed of 400 r.p.m.and via gear box 15 steps up the speed of governor shaft 20 to 1500 r.p.m. Governor weights 141, i42 co operates with sleeves to actuate lever 13 at 132 about pivot point 131. Lever 13 co operates with pitch change shaft 11 at 133. It can be seen in Figure 3 of the third order that lever 13 is in effect a double arm lever having arms 13A, 13B acting about a spindle 135 which is centred on position 131. Clearly as the weights i41, 142 move outwardly under centrifugal force so via sleeves 21 the lever 13 is actuated at 132 about pivots 131 to draw pitch change shaft 11 in the direction of arrow E via bracket 22. Now bracket 22 carries extension bars 23A, 23B on centre line 184 schematically shown inFigures IA, 1B, iC at 184 . When now override lever 18 is moved about its pivot 181 its two part structure 18A, 18B contacts extensions 23A, 23B and draws them and shaft 11 in the direction of arrow E to override governor 14. In Figure 4 there is shown the pitch change mechanism at the root of one blade. Pitch change shaft 11 is connected by pin 24 to sleeve 25 which via toggle 10 Figure 1A and spring 12 co operates with cam arm 26 on blade root bar 27 of blade Pi. A movement over a distance x gives a change of pitch on the blade of substantially right angle. In Figure 5 a support structure 28 houses the governor 14 and two of the rotors three blades are shown at Pt, P2. The structure 28 can yaw about sleeving bearing 29 and is kept into the wind by vane 30. A mast super structure 31 has a winch 32 for the actuation of line 19 to override the governor 14 and feather the blades P1, P2, P3 of the rotor if necessary to park it in the wind. An important operational advantage from the winch 32 lies in the fact that, suitably geared, with the rotor in the wind, feathered and parked, it is easy to move from the feathered condition of coarse pitch, which is ideal for the rotor to commence rotation in the wind and then, in a synchronous manner, to come to the fixed finer pitch condition for maximum efficiency at full speed, which condition is difficult for the slow running at the start. Also the lever 13, which dictates the limit of the fixed pitch, may be set by the winch, or by other means to intermediate settings but, however inappropriately set, will be overriden by the governor and overspeeding prevented. Thus, by operating on the pitch limit, the lever 13 dictates whether the rotor will stop or may start and by governor action dictates whether the setting so chosen is safe. In this way, the autonomy of the rotor is preserved. It is to be made clear that the lever 13 may be operated by manual or automatic servomotor means, and kept in such a position by control means that the power coefficient gyp , or some other parameter it may be desired to optimize, may be correlated to the tip speed ratio, or some other reference, so that the said parameter may be optimized. It can be shown that if what is known as the centrifugal pitching moment is left unbalanced on a rotor blade used in a variable pitch mode, then parasitic stresses on certain bearings are introduced and the governor forces required to coarsen pitch settings are unnecessarily high. The centrifugal moment appears in two forms, one from the aerodynamic properties of the profile used which clearly cam be minimised by the use of a suitable blade profile and the other from an uncompensated blade which results in a tendency for the blade to seek a zero angle of attack fine pitch that may defeat the efforts of a centrifugal governor to reduce an excessive speed. The centrifugal turning moment is readily calculable by an aerodynamicist, let a particle of mass mb be at a distance from the pitch axis of a rotor blade Figure 6A .EMI9.1 tb SEP now SEP the SEP moment SEP mz SEP SEP c x SEP rJlk SEP oC SEP SEP g tb SEP also SEP a6 SEP SEP tb SEP SEP o.rv tb SEP 2 tb c z, tb SEP hence SEP CCX tb SEP SEP 7 rOScL tb SEP Now SEP the SEP centrifugal tb SEP force SEP CX SEP e SEP sihl SEP AAI SEP 3 tb SEP a, SEP 3 tb SEP Thus SEP roJ 51 tb SEP rF SEP SEP t SEP fAAjwZ tb SEP or tb SEP n3 SEP Oz SEP 4 tb Now in a blade the centrifugal turning momentEMI10.1 becomes a centrifugal pitching momentEMI10.2 whereEMI10.3 substituting 4 in 5EMI10.4 where m is the mass of both points of a two mass dynamically equivalent system.EMI10.5 tb Now SEP ,z SEP SEP 7 SEP SEP a, tb and SEP t SEP the SEP resisting SEP moment SEP is tb SEP htR SEP n SEP SEP tX SEP X SEP S ss OJ SEP coS6ss 6 SEP tb where EMI10.6 is the total blade mass kg is the radius of the two mass system is the angle of attack of the blade is the angular velocity of the rotor is the total compensation mass kg is the mass operating radius is the angle between the mass radius and the chord of the blade. EMI11.1 Clearly if ss is 900 thenEMI11.2 tb SEP is SEP is SEP unity tb SEP K4 Jco K6 c tb , SEP f SEP 8 tb SEP kg tb SEP Xt tb consider now a three blade rotor of radius three metres, whereEMI11.3 is 3.45 kg is 0.0583 m is 900 is O.i m is 100 is 40 radians sec. then from 8 aboveEMI11.4 1t173 kg and from 6 aboveEMI11.5 is 3.2 Nm per blade. It is to be appreciated that if the total blade compensation mass mx is divided into two, one mass ma above and the other mass tb below the chord C1C2, then bending stresses are reduced from what is obtained with one mass only on one side of the chord. If so divided the mass ma and mb each become 0.587 kg at a radius Xof O.i m Figure 6B . The masses mamb may be placed at an angle ss less than or greater than a right angle and the values for mx are readily found from 7 above.