# Clavulanic acid derivatives, process for their preparation and pharmaceutical compositions containing them.

## Abstract
The present invention provides the compounds of the formula II

## Claims
WHAT WE CLAIM IS 1. The compound of the formula II or an ester or pharmaceutically acceptable acid addition salt thereof EMI38.1 wherein R1 is a hydrogen atom or a lower alkyl group andR2 is a hydrogen atom or a lower alkyl group or R1 andR2 together may represent a bond or a group CH2 n where n is an integer from 1 to 6. 2. A compound as claimed in claim 1 selected from 9 N isopropylaminodeoxyclavulanic acid, 9 N cyclopropylaminodeoxyclavulanic acid, 9 N cyclobutylaminodeoxyclavulanic acid, 9 N cyclopentylaminodeoxyclavulanic acid, and 9 N cyclohexylaminodeoxyclavulanic acid. 3. A compound as claimed in either claim 1 or claim 2 when in crystalline form. 4. A compound as claimed in claim 1 when in the form of a free acid 5. An ester as claimed in claim 1 wherein the ester is of the sub formula A1 or CHA2A3 CLAIMS 1. A process for the preparation of a compound of the formula II or an ester or pharmaceutically acceptable acid addition salt thereofEMI39.1 wherein R1is a hydrogen ator or a lower alkyl group and R is a hydrogen atom or a lower alkyl group or Rl and together may a represent a bond or a group CH2 n where n is an integer from 1 to 6, which process comprises the hydrogenation of a compound of the formula V EMI39.2 or ester thereof, wherein X is a group CH C or a group that on hydrogenation proves the group CH2R and Y is a group CH2RÚ or a group that on hydrogenation provides the group CH2R 2, wherein RI and R 2 are as defined with respect to formula I above and R is a moiety CR4 CHR5 in which P is a hydrogen atom or a lower alkyl group and R5 is hydrogen atom, a lower alkyl group or a phenyl group optionally inertly substituted, or R is a phenyl group and optionally thereafter carrying out one or more of the following steps EMI40.1 wherein At is C16 alkyl optionally substituted by alkoxy, aryloxy, alkoxycarbonyloxy, acyloxy, aralkanoyl, alkanoyl or benzoyl of up to 8 carbon atoms, any phenyl groups in such substituents being themselves optionally substituted by a fluorine, bromine, chlorine, nitro, C14 alkyl or C14 alkoxy or is a phthalidyl group optionally substituted by one or two alkyl or alkoxy groups of up to 3 carbon atoms A2 is an alkenyl or alkynyl group of up to 5 carbon atoms or is a phenyl group optionally substituted by a fluorine, chlorine, bromine, nitro or alkyl or alkoxyl of up to 4 carbon atoms and A3 is a hydrogen atom, an alkyl group of up to 4 carbon atoms or a phenyl group optionally substituted by a fluorine, chlorine, bromine, nitro.or alkyl or alkoxyl of up to 4 carbon atoms. i removing an ester if present ii forming an ester iii forming a pharmaceutically acceptable acid addition salt of an ester. 2. A process for the preparation of a compound of the formula II as defined in claim 1 or its ester or acid addition salt thereof which process comprises the reaction of a compound of the formula VI , or a derivative thereof which allows alkylation to take place EMI41.1 wherein Rx is a hydrogen atom or a ester group, with a compound of the formula VII EMI41.2 wherein X and Y are as defined in relation to formula V and Z is a readily displaceable group and optionally thereafter i removing an ester if present, ii forming an ester, iii forming a pharmaceutically acceptable acid addition salt of an ester, iv converting any groups X and Y to groups CH2Rl and CH2R.. 6. An ester as claimed in either claim 1 or claim 5 in the form of an acid addition salt. 7. A pharmaceutical composition which comprises a compound as claimed in any of claims l to 6 and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier. 8. A composition as claimed in claim 7 which also contains a penicillin or cephalosporin. 9. A process for the preparation of a compound of the formula II or its ester or pharmaceutically acceptable acid addition salt thereof which process comprises the hydrogenation of a compound of the formula V EMI42.1 or ester thereof, wherein X is a group OH R1 or a group that on hydrogenation proves the group CH2R and Y is a group CH2R or a group that on bydrogenation provides the group CH2R2, wherein RI and R are as defined with 3 4 5 respect to formula I above and P is a moiety CR CHR in which R4 is a hydrogen atom or a lower alkyl group and R5 is hydrogen atom, a lower alkyl group or a phenyl group optionally inertly substituted, or R is a phenyl group and optionally thereafter carrying out one or more of the following steps i removing an ester if present ii forming an ester iii forming a pharmaceutically acceptable acid addition salt of an ester. 3. A process for the preparation of a compound of the formula II as defined in claim l or its ester or acid addition salt thereof which process comprises the hydrogenation of a compound of the formula VIII EMI43.1 or an ester thereof wherein X and Y are as defined in relation to formula V , and R6 is a moiety of the subformula a EMI43.2 wherein R is a hydrogen, fluorine, chlorine or bromine atom or an alkyl group of 1 3 carbon atoms, an alkoxyl group of 1 3 carbon atoms, an acyloxyl group of 1 3 carbon atoms, a hydroxyl group, an alkoxycarbonyl group containing 10 11 1 3 carbon atoms in the alkoxy part, or a group N R CO.R 10 11 CO NRlORll where R10 is a hydrogen atom N R SO2R or an alkyl group of 1 3 carbon atoms or a phenyl or benzyl group and Rll is an alkyl group of 1 3 carbon atoms B or a phenyl or benzyl group R is a hydrogen, fluorine or chlorine atom or an alkyl group of 1 3 carbon atoms, an alkoxyl group of 1 3 carbon atoms or an acyloxyl group of 1 3 carbon atoms and R is a hydrogen fluorine or chlorine atom or an alkyl group of 1 3 carbon atoms or an alkoxyl group of 1 3 carbon atoms and optionally thereafter 10. A process for the preparation of a compound of the formula II or its ester or acid addition salt thereof which process comprises the reaction of a compound of the formula VI , or a derivative thereof which allows alkylation to take place EMI44.1 wherein Rx is a hydrogen atom or a ester group, with a compound of the formula VII EMI44.2 wherein X and Y are as defined in relation to formula V and Z is a readily displaceable group and optionally thereafter i removing an ester if present, ii forming an ester, iii forming a pharmaceutically acceptable acid addition salt of an ester, iv converting any groups X and Y to groups CH2RÚ and CH2Rê. i removing an ester if present, ii forming an ester, iii forming a pharmaceutically acceptable addition salt of an ester. 4. A process for the preparation of a compound of the formula II as defined in claim 1 or its ester or acid addition salt thereof which process comprises the hydrogenation of a compound of the formula V or ester thereof, or the reaction of a compound of the formula VII with a compound of the formula VI or ester thereof, and optionally thereafter i acylating the compound of the formula II or its ester with a compound of the formula IX , ii hydrogenating the compound of the formula VIII iii removing an ester if present, iv forming an ester, v forming a pharmaceutically acceptable acid addition salt of an ester. 5. A process as claimed in claim 1 wherein R3 is a phenyl group. 6. A process as claimed in either claim 1 or claim 5 wherein the compound of the formula V is in the form of a hydrogenolysable ester. 7. A process as claimed in any of claims 1 6 adapted to the preparation of a compound of the formula II in zwitterionic form. 11. A process for the preparation of a compound of the formula II or its ester or acid addition salt thereof which process comprises the hydrogenation of a compound of the formula VIII EMI46.1 or an ester thereof wherein X and Y are as defined in relation to formula V , and R is a moiety of the subformula a EMI46.2 wherein R is a hydrogen, fluorine, chlorine or bromine atom or an alkyl group of 1 3 carbon atoms, an alkoxyl group of 1 3 carbon atoms, an acyloxyl group of 1 3 carbon atoms, a hydroxyl group, an alkoxycarbonyl group containing 10 11 1 3 carbon atoms in the alkoxy part, or a group N R COZY N R10 S02R11 or CO NR1OR11 where R10 is a hydrogen atom or an alkyl group of 1 3 carbon atoms or a phenyl or benzyl group and RÚÚ is an alkyl group of 1 3 carbon atoms or a phenyl or benzyl group R8 is a hydrogen, fluorine or chlorine atom or an alkyl group of 1 3 carbon atoms, an alkoxyl group of 1 3 carbon atoms or an acyloxyl group of 9 1 3 carbon.atoms and R is a hydrogen fluorine or chlorine atom or an alkyl group of 1 3 carbon atoms or an alkoxyl group of 1 3 carbon atoms and optionally thereafter i removing an ester if present, ii forming an ester, iii forming a pharmaceutically acceptable addition salt of an ester. 12. A process for the preparation of a compound of the formula II or its ester or acid addition salt thereof which process comprises the hydrogenation of a compound of the formula V or ester thereof, or the reaction of a compound of the formula VII with a compound of the formula VI or ester thereof, and optionally thereafter i acylating the compound of the formula II or its ester with a compound of the formula IX , ii hydrogenating the compound of the formula VIII iii removing an ester if present, iv forming an ester1 v forming a pharmaceutically acceptable acid addition salt of an ester. 8. A process for the preparation of a composition which comprises bringing into association a compound of the formula 11 and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier. 9. A process as claimed in claim 8 which also comprises a penicillin or cephalosporin.

## Description
Clavulanic Acid Derivatives, A Process for Their Preparation and Their Use The present invention relates to S lactam antibacterial agents, to the process for their preparation and to compositions containing them. British Patent Application No. 16764 77 corresponding to U.S. Serial No. 896441, and BelgianPatent No. 187034 discloses inter alia the compounds of the formula I EMI1.1 and esters thereof wherein X1 is a hydrogen atom, or an alkyl group of up to 5 carbon atoms, an alkenyl group of up to 5 carbon atoms, a hydroxy alkyl group of up to 5 carbon atoms or an optionally substituted phenyl group, Such compounds were described as antibacterial agents and ss lactamase inhibitors. It has now been discovered that stable, crystalline secondary amines can be prepared that aress lactamase inhibitors that enhance the effectiveness of penicillins or cephalosporins and which also have antibacterial properties in their own right and which are advantageously water soluble. The present invention provides a compound of the formula II , or an ester or pharmaceutically acceptable acid addition salt of such an ester EMI2.1 wherein R is a hydrogen atom or a lower alkyl group and R is a hydrogen atom or a lower alkyl group or R1 andR2 together may represent a bond or a group CH2 n , where n is an integer from 1 to 6. When used herein the term lower alkyl means an alkyl group of 1 to 4 carbon atoms, Thus it will be apparent that suitable values of R1 and R2, which may be the same or.different include hydrogen, methyl, ethyl, iosopropyl, n propyl and n butyl. Certain favoured moieties R1 are hydrogen, methyl, ethyl, n propyl and isopropyl. Certain favoured moieties R2 are hydrogen, methyl, ethyl, n propyl and isopropyl. Favourably RÚ and Rê together may represent a bond or a group CH2 n where n is an integer from 1 to 3. A particulary preferred compound is 9 N isopropylaminodeoxyclavulanic acid. Further preferred compounds are 9 N cyclopentylaminodeoxyclavulanic acid, 9 N cyclopropylaminodeoxyclavulanic acid and 9 N cyclohexylaminodeoxyclavulanic acid. The compounds of this invention are preferably in the form of the free acid of formula 11 and as such normally exist in the form of a zwitterion, that is they may be represented as shown inf formula IIa EMI3.1 These zwitteronic forms of the compounds are favoured in view of their crystalline form, stability and good solubility. Esters of the compounds of the formula II also form part of this invention, for example as the free base or as the acid addition salt since such compounds can also be used to enhance the effectiveness of penicillins or cephalosporins. Suitable esters of the compounds of the formula II include those of the formulae III and IV EMI4.1 wherein Ag is C16 alkyl optionally substituted by alkoxy, aryloxy, alkoxycarbonyloxy, acyloxy, aralkanoyl, alkanoyl or benzoyl of up to 8 carbon atoms, any phenyl groups in such substituents being themselves optionally substituted by a fluorine, bromine, chlorine, nitro, C14 alkyl or C14 alkoxy or is a phthalidyl group optionally substituted by one or two alkyl or alkoxy groups of up to 3 carbon atoms A2 is an alkenyl or alkynyl group of up to 5 carbon atoms or is a phenyl group optionally substituted by a fluorine, chlorine, bromine, nitro or alkyl or alkoxyl of up to 4 carbon atoms and A3 is a hydrogen atom, an alkyl group of up to 4 carbon atoms or a phenyl group optionally substituted by a fluorine, chlorine, bromine, nitro.or alkyl or alkoxyl of up to 4 carbon atoms. Suitable esters of the compounds of the formula II include the methyl, ethyl, n propyl, n butyl, allyl, 2methylallyl, CH2 C CH, methoxymethyl, acetoxymethyl, propionoxymethyl, pivaloyloxymethyl, ethoxycarbonyloxymethyl, methoxycarbonyloxyethyl, ethoxycarbonyloxyethyl, phthalidyl, dimethoxyphthalidyl, benzyl, methoxybenzyl, ethoxybenzyl, nitrobenzyl and chlorobenzyl esters. Certain favoured groups A1 include methyl, methoxymethyl, acetoxymethyl, acetoxyethyl, phthalidyl, ethoxycarbonyloxymethyl, and a ethoxycarbonyloxyethyl. Certain favoured groups A2 include the phenyl and 4 methoxyphenyl groups. A particularly favoured moiety A3 is the hydrogen atom. Esters of the compounds of the formula II such as those of the compounds of the formulae III or IV may be presented in the form of their acid addition salts if desired. The acid used to form the salt will most suitably be pharmaceutically acceptable, but nonpharmaceutically acceptable acid addition salts are also envisaged, for example as intermediates in the preparation of the pharmaceutically acceptable salts by ion exchange.Suitable pharmaceutically acceptable acid addition salts include those of inorganic and organic acids, such as hydrochloric, phosphoric, sulphuric, methanesulphonic, toluenesulphonic, citric, malic, acetic, lactic, tartaric, propionic and succinic acid. Most suitably the acid addition salt is provided as a solid and preferably as a crystalline solid. Compounds df this invention when in crystalline form may be solvated, for example hydrated. The present invention provides a pharmaceutical composition which comprises acompound of this invention and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier. The compositions of the invention include those in a form adapted for oral, topical or parenteral use and may be used for the treatment of infection in mammals including humans. Suitable forms of the compositions of this invention include tablets, capsules, creams, syrups, suspensions, solutions, reconstitutable powders and sterile forms suitable for injection or infusion. Such compositions may be made in conventional manner and may contain conventional pharmaceutically acceptable materials such as diluents, binders, colours, flavours, preservatives and disintegrant in accordance with conventional pharmaceutical practice in the manner well understood by those skilled in the art of formulating antibiotics. Injectable or infusable compositions of a compound of the invention are particularly suitable as high blood levels of the compound can occur after administration by injection or infusion. Thus, one preferred composition aspect of this invention comprises a compound of the invention in sterile form and most suitably in sterile crystalline form.The zwitterionic compounds of this invention are particularly suitable for use in such compositions. The injectable solution of the compound of this invention may be made up in a sterile pyrogen free liquid such as water or aqueous ethanol. Compounds of this invention when in highly pure crystalline form tend to have higher aqueous solubilities than those of such previously prepared pure crystalline 9 amino daoxyclavul ani c acid derivatives such as 9 N benzylaminodeoxyclavulanic acid. This means that the compounds are easier to administer than the previously known compounds.In this circumstance it is often convenient to administer the solution by intra muscular injection which is less complicated than intravenous administrati.on. This invention also provides the use of a compound of this invention for preparing injectable aqueous solutions. Such solutions may be prepared by dissolving a sterile compound of this invention in sterile water.Suit ably this water is Water for Injection BP or the equivalent and may contain electrolytes to render it isotonic. A particularly suitable injectable aqueous solution of this invention is one which contains not less than 15 w w of a compound of this invention, favourably not less than 20 w w of a compound of this invention and preferably not less than 25 w w of a compound of this invention. Unit dose compositions comprising a compound of this invention adapted for oral administration form a further suitable composition aspect of this invention. However, orally administrable forms are generally less favoured than injectable forms owing to the relatively poor absorption of the compounds from the gastro intestinal tract. Despite this orally administrable compositions are of use as a synergistically effective blood level can be expected at high doses and at lower doses such compositions may be used to treat infections localised in the gastro intestinal tract. Unit dose compositions comprising a compound of this invention adapted for topical administration are also presented by this invention. In this instance topical administration also includes local administration to internal surfaces of mammary glands of cattle, for example during the treatment of mastitis by intra manunary administration. The compounds of the invention may be present in the composition as sole therapeutic agent or they may be present together with other therapeutic agents such as a penicillin or cephalosporin. Considerable advantages accrue from the inclusion of a penicillin or cephalosporin since the resulting composition shows enhanced effectiveness synergy . Suitable penicillins for inclusion in the compositions of this invention include benzylpenicillin, phenoxymethylpenicillin, carbenicillin, azidocillin, propicillin, ampicillin, amoxycillin, epicillin, ticarcillin, cyclacillin, pirbenicillin, azlocillin, mezlocillin, celbenicillin and other known penicillins including pro drugs therefore such as their in vivo hydrolysable esters such as the acetoxymethyl, pivaloyloxymethyl, a ethoxycarbonyloxyethyl or phthalidyl esters.of ampicillin, benzylpenicillin or amoxycillin, and aldehyde or ketone adducts of penicillins containing a 6 aminoacetamide side chain such as hetacillin, metampicillin and analogous derivatives of amoxycillin or esters of carbenicillin or ticarcillin such as their phenyl or indanyl a esters. Suitable cephalosporins for inclusion in the compositions of this invention include cefatrizine, cephaloridine, cephalothin, cefazolin, cephalexin, cephacetrile, cephamandole nafate, cephapirin, cepradine, 4 hydroxycephalexin, cefaparole, cephaloglycin, and other known cephalosporins or pro drugs thereof. Such compounds are frequently used in the form of a salt or hydrate or the like. Naturally if the penicillin or cephalosporin present in the composition is not suitable for oral administration then the composition will be adapted for parenteral administration. As previously indicated such injectable or infusable compositions are preferred. Highly favoured penicillins for use in the compositions of this invention include ampicillin, amoxycillin, carbenicillin and ticarcillin. Such penicillins may be used as a pharmaceutically acceptable salt such as the sodium salt. Alternatively the ampicillin or amoxycillin mav be used in the form of fine.p.articles sf the witerj6nic form generally as ampicillin trihydrate or amoxycillin trihydrate for use in an injectable suspension, for example, in the manner hereinbefore described for a compound of this invention. The preferred penicillin for use in the synergistic composition is amoxycillin, for example as its sodium salt or especially as its trihydrate. Particularly suitable cephalosporins for use in the compositions of this invention include cephaloridine and cefazolin as its pharmaceutically acceptable salt, for example the sodium salt. When present together with a cephalosporin or penicillin, the ratio of a compound of the invention to the penicillin or cephalosporin agent may vary over a wide range of ratios, such as from 10 1 to 1 10 for example about 3 1, 2 1, 1 1, 1 2, 1 3, 1 4, 1 5 or 1 6, wt wt, based on pure free antibiotic equivalent . Orally administrable compositions containing a compound of the invention will normally contain relatively more synergist than corresponding injectable compositions, for example the ratio in an oral composition may be from about 3 1 to about 1 1 whereas a corresponding injectable composition may contain a ratio of about 1 1 to about 1 3 compound of the invention penicillin or cephalosporin . The total quantity of a compound of the invention in any unit dosage will normally be between 25 and 100Omg and will usually be between 50 and 500 mg, for example about 62.5, 100, 125, 150, 200 or 250 mg. Compositions of this invention may be used for the treatment of infections inter alia, the respiratory tract, the urinary tract and soft tissues in humans and mastitis in cattle. Normally between 50 and 1000 mg of the compounds of the invention will be administered each day of treatment but more usually between 100 and 750 mg of the compounds of the invention will be administered per day, for example as 1 6 doses, more usually as 2, 3 or 4 doses. The penicillin or cephalosporin in the synergistic composition of this invention will normally be present at approximately the amount at which it is conventionally used which will usually be expected to be from about 62.5 to 1000 mg per dose, more usually about 125, 250 or 500 mg per dose. One particularly favoured composition of this invention will contain from 150 to 1000 mg of amoxycillin as the trihydrate or sodium salt and from 25 to 500 mg of a compound of this invention. The present invention also provides a method oE treating bacterial infections in humans or domestic mammals which comprises the administration of a composition of this invention. Commonly the infection treated will be due to a strain of Staphylococcus aureus, Klebsiella aerogenes,Escherichia coli or Proteus sp. The organisms believed to be most readily treated by an antibacterially effected amount of a compound of this invention are strains ofStaphylococcus aureus. The other organism named are more readily treated by using a synergistically effective amount of the compound of the invention and a penicillin or cephalosporin. The administration of the two components may take place separately but in general we prefer to use a composition containing both the synergist and the penicillin or cephalosporin. The indications for treatment include respiratory tract and urinary tract infections in humans and mastitis in cattle. The compound of the formula II as hereinbefore defined or its ester or pharmaceutically acceptable acid addition salt of such an ester may be prepared by the hydrogenation of a compound of the formula V EMI12.1 or ester thereof, wherein X is a group CH 1 or a group that on hydrogenation proves the group CH2R and Y is a group CH2R or a group that on hydrogenation provides the group CH2R , wherein R and R2 are as defined with respect to formula II above and R3 is a moiety CR4 CHR5 in which R is a hydrogen atom or a lower alkyl group and R5 is hydrogen atom, a lower alkyl group or a phenyl group optionally inertly substituted, or R is a phenyl group and optionally thereafter carrying out one or more of the following steps i removing an ester if present ii forming an ester iii forming a pharmaceutically acceptable acid addition salt of an ester. When used above the term lower alkyl means an alkyl group with 1 to 4 carbon atoms. When used herein suitable inert substitutents for use in the phenyl group of R5 include alkyl of 1 to 4 carbon atoms and alkoxy of 1 to 4 carbon atoms. Suitably X is an alkyl group of 1 to 5 carbon atoms, an alkenyl group of 2 to 5 carbon atoms or an alkynyl group of 2 to 5 carbon atoms. Suitably Y is an alkyl group of 1 to 5 carbon atoms, an alkenyl group of 2 to 5 carbon atoms or an alkynyl group of 2 to 5 carbon atoms. Alternatively X and Y together may represent an alkylene group of 2 to 8 carbon atoms or an alkenylene group 2 to 8 carbon atoms. It is preferred that X has the value CH2R , and that Y has the value CH2R2. Suitably R3 is a phenyl group. Particularly suitable groups CR4 CHR5 include CH CHCH3 CH CHC6H5, C CH3 CH2, C nC3H7 CH2, C CH3 CHCH3, C CH3 C CH3 2, C CH3 CHC2H5, C CH3 CHC6H5, and C C2H5 CH2. Favoured groups CR4 CHR5 are CH CHCH3, CH CHC6H5,C CH3 CH2 and C CH3 CHC6H5. Preferred groups R3 are C6H5, C CH3 CH2 and C CH3 CHC6H5.3 65 The hydrogenation is normally carried out in the presence of a transition metal catalyst. The catalyst we have preferred to use is palladium, for example in the form of palladium on carbon charcoal , palladium on barium sulphate, palladium on calcium carbonate and palladium black. A favoured catalyst is palladium on carbon sometimes referred to as palladium on charcoal for example 5 , 10o, tor 30 palladium on carbon. The high palladium content catalyst are particularly apt as smaller total weights of catalyst can be employed thereby avoiding possible problems associated with adsorption of product onto the carbon. A low, medium or high pressure of hydrogen may be used in this reaction, for example from 1 to 6 atmospheres.In general if the catalyst used contains a lower percentage of palladium for example 5 or 10 palladium then better yields of the desired product are obtained using a pressure of about 3 to 5 atmospheres of hydrogen, for example about 4 atmospheres of hydrogen. In general if the catalyst used contains a higher percentage of palladium for example 20t or 30 palladium then acceptable yields of the desired product may also be obtained at low and medium pressures of hydrogen, for example about 1 to 2 atmospheres of hydrogen. We have found it convenient to use an atmospheric or slightly superatmospheric pressure of hydrogen in conjunction with higher palladium content catalysts. The reaction is normally carried out at a nonextreme temperature, for example from OOC to 300C and more usually from 120C to 25 0C. It is generally convenient to carry out the reaction at ambient temperature. Suitable solvents for carrying out the hydrogenation include ethanol, n propanol, isopropanol, tetrahydrofuran, dioxane, ethyl acetate or mixtures of such solvents or such solvents in the presence of water. A favoured solvent is aqueous tetrahydrofuran. A further favoured solvent is a mixture of isopropanol, tetrahydrofuran and water. We have preferred to carry out the hydrogenation reaction on a hydrogenolysable ester of a compound of the formula V so that a compound of the formula II per se is formed by the hydrogenation. Such a hydrogenation reaction proceeds at least in part via the formation of a compound of the formula V . Favoured hydrogenolysable esters include benzyl and substituted benzyl esters such as methoxybenzyl, nitrobenzyl for example the p nitrobenzyl ester , chlorobenzyl and bromobenzyl esters. A particularly suitable hydrogenolysable ester is the benyl ester. A further particularly suitable hydrogenolysable ester is the p methoxybenzyl ester. Further favoured hydrogenoly 4 5 sable ester groups include those groups CH2CR CHR that have been specified hereinbefore as being favoured for removal from a nitrogen atom by hydrogenolysis. If the hydrogenation is performed on a nonhydrogenolysable ester of the compound of the formula V then naturally an ester of the compound of the formula II xesults. The product may generally be isolated from the reaction mixture by filtering off the solids the catalyst, which should be well washed to remove the product and then evaporating the solvent, preferably under low pressure, to yield the initial product. Further purification may be effected by such conventional methods as chromatography over cellulose or other mild stationary phase eluting with a C14 alkanol optionally in the presence of water and optionally in the presence of ethyl acetate. Evaporation of the combined active fraction identified by aqueous potassium permanganate spray on tlc then yields the desired compound in pure form. The desired product is normally obtained in crystalline form unless it is an unsalted ester .Trituration under ethanol, isopropanol or similar C 4 alkanol or other conventional solvent such as a ketone, ether orester solvent for example of up to 6 carbon atoms and more suitably of up to 4 carbon atoms may also be used to aid crystallisation. Recrystallisation from ethanol may also be employed. The solvent used in such processes may advantageously be moist. The preceding work up procedures success fully separate the desired compound from other products of the hydrogenation such as 9 N,N dialkylaminodeoxy clavulanates. Zwitterionic compounds of the formula IIa may be obtained from high yielding reactions by the addition of a C14 alkanol such as cold ethanol to the initial product. If the initial product contains impurities it may be advantageous touash the initial product by dissolving in a water immiscible organic solvent and extracting into water. Evaporation of the aqueous phase, preferably under a good vacuum, then yields a purer product which may be further purified if desired as previously described. Certain unsalted esters of the compounds of the formula II are low melting so that it is often more convenient for handling to convert them into solid acid addition salts, for example by reaction with one equivalent of an acid. Alternatively the non hydrogenolysable ester of the compound of the formula V may be hydrogenated in the presence of one equivalent of an acid, that is they may be hydrogenated in the form of their acid addition salt. In an alternative aspect of this invention there is provided a process for the preparation of a compound of the formula 11 as hereinbefore defined or an ester or acid addition salt of such an ester which process comprises the reaction of a compound of the formula VI , or a derivative thereof which allows alkylation to take place EMI17.1 wherein Rx is a hydrogen atom or a ester group, with a compound of the formula VII EMI17.2 wherein X and Y are as defined in relation to formula V and Z is a readily displaceable group and optionally thereafter i removing an ester ifpresent, ii forming an ester, iii forming a pharmaceutically acceptable acid addition salt of an ester, iv converting any groups X and Y to groups CH21 and CH2R2. Preferably the readily displaceable group is bromide, iodide or a sulphonate ester such as a tosylate. Normally the reaction is carried out in the presence of a non nucleophilic base, for example diazabicyclononene or diazabicycloundecane. If R is a hydrogen atom then reaction will occur also on the free acid function to provide an alkyl ester.There is a tendency for di alkylation on the nitrogen atom to occur thus forming a tertiary amine. However, this possibility may be avoided or minimised by careful selection of reagent quantities and or reaction conditions. If the groups X and Y are moieties that can be converted to groups CH2RÚ and CH2Rê respectively then this can be performed using standard methods of hydrogenolysis as hereinbefore described. If it is desired to remove the ester group then this may be done by standard chemical methods appropriate to the nature of the ester, such standard chemical methods include hydrogenation, acid and base hydrolysis and enzymatic hydrolysis. The compounds of the formula VI can be prepared by the methods of Belgian Patent Nos. 866496 and 855375Derivatives of the formula VI formed on the 9 amino function that allow alkylation to take place on the 9 amino function are those well known in the art, for example a silyl derivative. A pharmaceutically acceptable ester of a compound of the formula 11 may be prepared by reaction of the compound of the formula II with an esterifying agent. The zwitterionic compound of the formula II may be dissolved or suspended in a solvent such as dimethylformamide, hexamethylphosphoramide, dichloromethane, ethyl acetate or other non esterifiable solvents and therein esterified. Suitable temperatures for such a reaction range from about 00 to about 250C. Suitable esterifying reagents include reactive halides and their equivalents and alkyl oxonium salts. When a reagent such as a reactive iodide, chloride, bromide, tosylate, mesylate or the equivalent is used, the resulting salt is generally suitable for use in a composition of this invention. Alternatively, the salt may be converted to a free base or alternative salt. When an alkyl oxonium salt is used, it is preferred to convert the resulting tetrafluoroborate to the free base or alternative salt. The various afore mentioned salts may be converted to the free base by neutralisation, for example by contacting a solution of the salt in water with an organic phase, neutralising the salt by adding a base and extracting the liberated amine into the organic phase. This amine may thereafter be re salted by reacting with an appropriate acid, for example in a dry organic solvent. It is generally preferred to use not more than one equivalent of acid for this process.Alternatively, the originally formed salt may be converted into the alternative salt using an ion exchange material for example, by passing an aqueous solution of one salt through a bed of an anion exchange resin in the form of the form of the desired salt such as the chloride form. The salts may normally be obtained in solid form by dissolving in a fairly polar organic solvent such as methanol or tetrahydrofuran and then precipitating using a.less polar solvent such as diethyl ether or cyclohexane. The salts of the esters of the compounds of the formula II may normally be obtained in crystalline form by conventional methods such as trituration under or crystallisation or recrystallisation from a suitable organic solvent such as ether, acetone, acetonitrile or tetrahydrofuran, Esters of the compound of the formula II may also be prepared by reaction of an acid addition salt of the compound of the formula II with an alcohol in the presence of a condensation promoting agent. Suitable condensation promoting agents for use in this process include carbodiimides such as dicyclohexylcarboxiimide and the chemical equivalents thereof. The acid addition salt may be formed in situ or may be preformed. The acid employed will normally be a strong acid such as a methane sulphonic acid, p toluene sulphonic acid or trifluoroacetic acid. The reaction is normally carried out in an inert organic solvent. When the ester being formed is that of a liquid alcohol it is convenient to use that alcohol as the solvent or as part of the solvent system. The esterification is generally performed at a non extreme temperature such as 00 to 35 0C, for example from about 100 to 250C. Conveniently the reaction may be performed at ambient temperature. Since the compound of the formula V and its salts and esters are of use as intermediates they form part of this invention. Suitably the compounds of the formula V are in the form of an ester of a type hereinbefore described. Suitably the compounds of the formula V are in the form of a salt such as in alkali metal salt, for example the lithium salt. The intermediates of the formula V and its salts and esters may be prepared by the methods of BritishApplication No. 41887 75, U.S. Serial No. 731928, BelgianPatent No. 847044 or West German Offenlegungsschrift 2646003. The present invention also provides a process for the preparation of an ester or acid addition salt thereof of a compound of the formula II which process comprises the hydrogenation of a compound of the formula VIII EMI22.1 or an ester thereof wherein X and Y are as defined in relation to formula V , and R6 is a moiety of the subformula a EMI22.2 wherein R7 is a hydrogen, fluorine, chlorine or bromine atom or an alkyl group of 1 3 carbon atoms, an alkoxyl group of 1 3 carbon atoms, an acyloxyl group of 1 3 carbon, atoms, a hydroxyl group, an alkoxycarbonyl group containing 1 3 carbon atoms in the alkoxy part, or a group N R10 CO.R11, N R10 SO2R11 or CO NR10R11 where R10 is a hydrogen atom or an alkyl group of 1 3 carbon atoms or a phenyl or benzyl group and R11 is an alkyl group of 1 3 carbon atoms or a phenyl or benzyl group R8 is a hydrogen, fluorine or chlorine atom or an alkyl group of 1 3 carbon atoms, an alkoxyl group of 1 3 carbon atoms or an acyloxyl group of 1 3 carbon atoms and R9 is a hydrogen, fluorine or chlorine atom or an alkyl group of 1 3 carbon atoms or an alkoxyl group of 1 3 carbon atoms and optionally thereafter i removing an ester if present, ii forming an ester, iii forming a pharmaceutically acceptable addition salt of an ester. Most suitably R6 is a phenyl group. Particularly suitable esters of the compound of the formula VIII include C1 4 alkyl esters especially the methyl and ethyl esters. The hydrogenation can be performed in the same general manner as hereinbefore described in relation to the hydrogenation of a compound of the formula V . An ester of the compound of the formula VIII may be formed from the free acid or salt in conventional manner. The compound of the formula VIII or ester thereof can be prepared by the reaction of a compound of the formula IX or an ester thereof EMI23.1 wherein X and Y are as defined in relation to formula V , with a compound of the formula X T CO 0 R6 X wherein R6 is as defined in relation to formula VIII and T is a readily displaceable group. Favoured groups T include the chlorine and bromine atoms, and sulphonate and carboxylate esters. A preferred compound of the formula X is benzyl chloroformate. The reaction may be performed under conventional acylation conditions, for example in non acylatable organic solvents such as acetone in the presence of an acid acceptor such as lithium bicarbonate, sodium carbonate or potassium carbonate at a non extreme temperature such as 100C to 300C. Therefore in a broad aspect there is provided a process for the preparation of a compound of the formula II or its ester or pharmaceutically acceptable acid addition salt of such an ester, which process comprises the hydrogenation of a compound of the formula V or ester thereof, or the reaction of a compound of the formula VII with a compound of the formula VI or ester thereof, and optionally thereafter i acylating the compound of the formula 11 or or its ester with a compound of the formula IX , ii hydrogenating the compound of the formula VIII iii removing an ester if present, iv forming an ester, v forming a pharmaceutically acceptable acid addition salt of an ester. The following examples serve to illustrate the invention. xamtle1 a Benzyl 9 N isopropyl N 2 methyl 3d phenyla2lyl aminodeoxyclavulanate Benzyl dichloroacetylclavulanate 2.0 g 5mM in dry dimethylformamide 30 cm3 was treated with 1.9 equivalents of N isopropyl N 2 methyl 3 phenyl allyl amine at 150 and allowed to warm up to room temperature over 4 hours. The mixture was poured into ethyl acetate 200 cm3 and was washed with water 5 x 100 cm3 and saturated brine, dried anhydrous magnesium sulphate and evaporated to an oil. This oil was chromatographed on silica eluting with ethyl acetate cyclohexane, 1 2.Fractions were collected containing the title compoundRf SiO2 ethylacetate cyclohexane 1 1 0.82.Combined fractions were evaporated to give an oil, 80 mg v max film 1805, 1750, 750, 700 cm . The proton magnetic resonance spectrum was consistent with the desired product. b 9 N Isopropylaminodeoxyclavulanic acid Benzyl 9 N isopropyl N 2 methyl 3 phenylallyl aminodeoxyclavulanate 76 mg in ethanol 20 cm3 was hydrogenolysed at atmospheric pressure in the presence of 25 mg palladium on carbon 10 Pd prehydrogenated for 10 minutes for 40 minutes. The catalyst was filtered off and washed with aqueous ethanol 10 cm3 and the filtrate evaporated to an oil. This oil was chromatographed on silica eluting with ethylacetate ethanol water 5 2 2. Fractions were collected containing the title compound, Rf SiO2 ethylacetate ethanol water 5 2 5 0.23. Combined fractions were evaporated, acetonitrile added and again evaporated to give a white solid, yield 10 mg. v max Nujol 31002200 very broad, 1805, 1700, 1622, 1575 cm 1. D20 1.18 6H, d, J 6 Hz , 2.97 1H, d, J 17 Hz ,5.0 3.5 1H, m , 3.47 1E, dd, J 17 and 3Hz , 3.58 211, d,J 7.5Hz , 4.65 111, broad t, J 7.5 Hz , 4.85 1H, broad s , 5.62 1H, d, J 3 Hz . Example 2 a Benzyl 9 N cyclopentyl N 2 methyl 3 phenylallyl aminodeoxyclavulanate Benzyl dichloroacetylclavulanate 5 g 12.5 mM in dry dimethylformamide 60 cm3 at 150 was treated with 1.9 equivalents of N cyclopentyl N 2 methyl 3 phenylallyl amine, dropwise with stirring over 10 minutes, then stirred at 5 for 11 hours and between 5 and 100 over 2 hours. The mixture was poured into ethylacetate 250 cm3 and washed with water 5 x 200 cm3 , saturated brine 5 x 200 sm3 , dried anhydrous magnesium sulphate and evaporated in the presence of toluene to small volume.This crude product was chromatographed on silica eluting with ethylacetate cyclohexane 1 3 . Fractions were collecting containing the title compound, Rf SiO2 ethylacetate cyclohexane 1 3 0.5 detection by aqueous potassium permanganate spray , combined fractions were evaporated to an oil, yield 1.05 g 17So , max film 1803, 1750, 1698, 1302, 1172, 1010, 742, 698 cm 1, i CDC13 1.20 2P0 811, broad m 1.84 3H, s 2.70 3.15 2H, broad m , 2.98 2H, s , 3.26 2H, d, J 7Hz , 3.36 111, dd, J 17 and 3Hz , 4.77 1H, broad t, J 7 Hz , 5.05 111, s , 5.15 2H, s , 5.57 lH, d, J 3 Hz , 6.35 1H, broad s , 7.24 and 7.32 1011, 2 x broad 5 . b 9 N Cyclopentylaminodeoxyclavulanic acid Benzyl 9 N cyclopentyl N 2 methyl 3 phenylallyl aminodeoxyclavulanate 0.78 g 1.6 iiii4 in ethanol 30 cm3 was hydrogenolysed at atmospheric pressure in the presence of 10 palladium on carbon 250 mg, which had been prehydrogenated for 10 minutes for 1 hour 20 minutes when water 1 cm was added and hydrogenolysis continued for ¹ hour. The catalyst was filtered off and washed with aqueous ethanol 50 cm3 , the filtrate was evaporated and acetonitrile added.The solution was cooled 00 and the resulting crystals filtered off, washed with cold acetonitrile and dried to afford the title compound as a colourless crystalline solid yield 185 mg 43 , Rf SiO2 ethylacetate ethanol water 5 2 2 0.48. v max Nujol 3150 2100 broad , 1808, 1700, 1630, 1572, 1290, 1190, 1120, 1047, 1015, 1005, 920, 892, 820, 750 cm 1, v max KBr 3120 2200 multiple and broad , 1800, 1696, 1618, 1568, 1477, 1390, 1303, 1286, 1185, 1157, 1120, 1045, 1013, 1003, 915, 892, 822, 787, 752 cm 1. D20 1.35 2.25 8H, broad m , 3.10 1H, d, J 17 Hz , 3.58 111, dd, J 17 and 3 Hz , 3.30 3.85 1H, broad m , 3,71 211, d, J 8 Hz , 4.79 1H, broad t, J 8 Hz ., 4.98 1E, d, J. 3 Hz . Example 3 a Benzyl 9 N cyclohexyl N 2 methyl 3 phenylallyl aminodeoxyclavulanate Benzyl dichloroacetylclavulanate 4 g 10mM in dry dimethylòrmamide 40 cm3 at 15 was treated with 1.9 equivalents of N cyclohexyl N 2 methyl 3 phenylallyl amine, dropwise over 15 minutes with stirring. The mixture was stirred for 2 hours between 150 and 10 then poured into ethylacetate 200 cm3 and washed with water 4 x 100 cm3 and saturated brine 4 x 100 cm3 , dried anhydrous magnesium sulphate and evaporated in the presence of toluene to low volume, this crude product was chromatographed on silica eluting with ethylacetate cyclohexane 1 3.Fractions were collected containing the title compound, Rf SiO2 ethylacetate cyclohexane 1 2 0.7 detection by aqueous potassium permanganate spray . Combined fractions were evaporated to an oil, yield 218 mg, max film 1805, 1750, 1700, 1450, 130S, 1172, 1012, 890, 745, 700 cm . CDC13 0.70 2.00 10H, broad m , 1.82 3H, s , 2.25 2.65 1H, broad m , 2.93 1H, d, J 17 Hz , 3.05 2H,s , 3.20 2H, d, J 7 Hz , 3.40 1H, dd, J 17 and 3 Hz 4.72 1H, broad t, J 7 HzY, 5.05 1H, s , 5.15 2H, s , 5.60 1H, d, J 3 Hz , 6.38 1H, broad s , 7.25 and 7.32 ION, 2 x s . b 9 N Cyclohexylaminodeoxyclavulanic acid Benzyl 9 N cyclohexyl N 2 methyl 3 phenylallyl arniiedeoxyavuinate 310 mg 0.62 mM in ethanol 25 cm3 was hydrogenolysed at atmospheric pressure in the presence of 10 palladium on carbon 100 mg which had been prehydrogenated for 10 minutes for 1 hours.The catalyst was filtered off and washed with ethanol 30 cm3 , then with aqueous ethanol 100 cm3 , this aqueous washing was collected separately and evaporated to a white solid. Methanol was added 5 cm3 and the crystals filtered off cold 00 and dried to give 2.7 mg of the title compound. The filtrate was evaporated and cold acetonitrile added, crystals were filtered off and washed with cold acetonitrile, drying afforded a further 12 mg of the title compound. The ethanolic washings from the catalyst and the reaction filtrate were evaporated to an oil, acetonitrile was added and the solution cooled.Crystals slowly formed, these were filtered off and washed with cold acetonitrile, drying afforded 30 mg of the title compound. Total yield 44 mg 26 Rf SiO2 ethylacetate ethanol water 5 2 2 0.60. max Nujol 1802, 1695, 1615, 1582, 1300, 1185, 1112, 1065, 1045, 1020, 1002, 930,895, 815, 755 cm v max KBr 3700 2200 broad multiple peaks , 1802, 1698, 1615, 1580, 1395, 1300, 1194, 1120, 1070, 1046, 1022, 935, 898, 760 cm 1. s D20 0.75 2.25 10H, broad m , 2.75 3.25 1H, broad m , 3.03 IN, d, J 17 Hz , 3.55 1H, dd, J 17 and 3 Hz , 3.67 2H, d, J 8 Hz , 4.73 1H, t, J 8 Hz , 4.94 IN, s , 5.72 1H, d, J 3 Hz . Example 4 a Benzyl 9 N cyclopropyl N 2 methyl 3 phenylallyl aminodeoxyclavulanate Benzyl 9 0 dichloroacetylclavulanate 6.98 g 17.5 mmol in dry dimethylformamide 70 ml was cooled with stirring to 200C. N Cyclopropyl N 21 methyl 13 phenylallyl amine 6.2 g 33 mmol in dry dimethylformamide 60 ml was added dropwise over a.period of 20 minutes. The reaction mixture was then stirred between 200C and 100 for a period of 2 hours. The solution was then poured into an ethyl acetate water mixture and shaken. The two layers were separated and the aqueous phase extracted with ethyl acetate .The combined organic layers were then washed several times with a saturated solution of sodium chloride, dried MgS04 and evaporated to an oil. Column chromatography afforded the title compound as aEMI31.1 lH, d, J 17 Hz, 6P CH , 3.12 2H, s, N CH2 , 3.27 2H, d, J 7 Hz, 9 CH , 3.39 lH, dd, 6a CH, partially obscured by 9 CH2 , 4,81 1H, br.t, J 7 Hz, 8 CH , 5.07 lH, s, 3 CH , 5.20 2H, s, CO2OH2 , 5.60 lH, d, J 3 Hz, 5 CH , 6.31 lH, s, CHC6H5 , 7.25, 7.30 lOH, 2 x s, aromatic H s . b 9 N Cyclopropylaminodeoxyclavulanic acid Benzyl 9 N cyclopropyl N 2 methyl 3 phenylallyl aminodeoxyclavulanate 1.4 g 3 mmol in ethanol was carefully added to a pre hydrogenated mixture of 10 palladium on charcoal 700 mg in ethanol 50 ml . The mixture was then hydrogenated at 1 atmosphere until the uptake of hydrogen ceased 1 hour . The catalyst was then filtered off through a celite pad and the cake washed well with aqueous ethanol. The filtrate plus washings were then evaporated to give a yellow solid which on trituration with ethanol afforded the title compound as a white crystalline solid in a 43 yield, max KBr 1785, 1695 1 and 1600 broad cm 6 duo 0.65 0.95 4H, m, lH, d, J 17 Hz, 6 CH , 3.54 lH, dd, J 17 and 3 Hz, 6a CH , 3.74 2H, d, J 7 Hz, 9 CH2 , 4.78 lH, broad t, J 7Hz, 8 cH , 4.93 lH, s, 3 CH and 5.71 lH, d, J 3 Hz, 5 CH .EMI32.1 Example 5Composition a A solution for injection may be prepared by dissolving 100 mg of sterile 9 N isopropylaminodeoxy clavulanic acid in 1 ml of sterile water.b A solution for injection may be prepared by dissolving 50 mg of sterile 9 N isopropylamirlodeoxy clavulanic acid and 250 mg of sterile sodium amoxycillin in 1 ml of sterile water.c A solution for injection may be prepared by dissolving 125 mg of sterile 9 N isopropylaminodeoxy clavulanic acid and 125 mg of sterile cephaloridine in 1.5 ml of sterile water. In vitro dataDemonstration of EffectivenessThe following results were obtained in a standard MIC test using ampicillin, 9 N isopropylaminodeoxyclavulanic acid, 9 N cyclopentylaminodeoxyclavulanic acid, and 9 N cydohexylaminodeoxyclavulanic acid. Synergistic and antibacterial properties of 9 N isopropylaminodeoxyclavulanic acidEMI34.1 tb SEP Staph SEP Russell SEP Kleb SEP SEP Eto SEP E. SEP coli SEP JT39 tb Ampicillin SEP alone SEP 125 SEP 500 SEP 2000 tb Ampicillin SEP . SEP tb clavulanic SEP acid tb SEP 1.0 SEP 0.6 SEP 3.1 SEP 8.0 tb SEP 5.0 SEP 0.02 SEP 1.5 SEP 1.0 tb Ainpicillin SEP tb 9 N isopropylamino tb deoxyclavulanic1.0 SEP 0.05 SEP 3.1 SEP 2.0 tb SEP acid SEP 5.0 SEP Inhibited SEP 1.5 SEP 1.0 tb Clavulanic SEP acid SEP alone SEP 16 SEP 31.2 SEP 31.2 tb Isoproylamino SEP deoxy SEP 8 SEP 500 SEP 31.2 tb SEP clavulanic SEP acid SEP alone tb Synergistic and antibacterial properties of 9 N cvclohexylaminodeoxvclavulanic acidEMI35.1 tb SEP Staph SEP Russell SEP Kleb SEP Eto SEP E.coli SEP JT39 tb Ampicillin SEP alone SEP 1000 SEP 1000 SEP 2000 tb Ampicillin SEP SEP tb SEP clavulanic SEP acid tb SEP 1.0 SEP 0.6 SEP 12.5 SEP 16 SEP tb SEP 5.0 SEP 0.08 SEP 1.6 SEP 4.0 SEP tb Ampicillin SEP SEP tb 9 N cyclohexylamino tb SEP deoxyclavu SEP 1.0 SEP 0.3 SEP 6,25 SEP 8.0 tb SEP lanic SEP SEP acid SEP 5.0 SEP Inhibited SEP SEP 12.5 SEP 4.0 tb Clavulanic SEP acid SEP alone SEP 31.2 SEP 62.5 SEP 31.2 tb SEP 9 N cyclohexylamino SEP 8.0 SEP 500 SEP 62.5 tb SEP deoxyclavulanic SEP tb acid tb Svnergistic and antibacterial properties of 9 N cyclopentylaminodeoxyclavulanic acidEMI36.1 tb SEP Staph SEP Russell SEP Kleb SEP Eto SEP E.coli SEP JT39 tb Ampicillin SEP alone SEP 250 SEP 31.2 SEP 250 tb Ampicillin SEP SEP tb clavulanic SEP acid SEP tb SEP 1.0 SEP 0.3 SEP 1.5 SEP 16.0 tb SEP 5.0 SEP SEP 0.01 SEP SEP 0.8 SEP 4.0 tb Ampicillin SEP SEP tb 9 N SEP cyclopentylamino SEP tb SEP deoxyclavulanic SEP 1.0 SEP 0.15 SEP 3.1 SEP 8.0 tb SEP acid SEP 5.0 SEP Inhibited SEP 1.5 SEP 4.0 SEP tb Clavulanic SEP acid SEP alone SEP 31.2 SEP 62.5 SEP 16.0 tb 9 N cyclopentylaiino SEP 16 SEP r SEP 500 SEP 31.2 tb SEP deoxyclavulanic SEP tb SEP acid tb In vivo subcutaneous synergistic activity of the compound of Example 2 with amoxycillin against intraperitoneal E. coli infections in mice.EMI37.1 tb SEP CD50 SEP mg kg tb SEP E. SEP coli SEP strain tb SEP E96 SEP E124 tb Amoxycillin SEP alone SEP 1000 SEP 1000 tb Amoxycillin SEP alone SEP SEP 2.0 SEP mg kg SEP 7.5 SEP 100 SEP tb of SEP compound SEP of SEP example SEP 2 tb