# Means for improving the high frequency response in magnetic audio recording.

## Abstract
introduction of dynamic equalization in the recording amplifiers feedback loop which contains an LC resonance circuit L,C₁ which is damped in accordance with the output level of the amplifier G s , so that by increasing levels beyond a fixed value the influence of the resonance circuit is gradually reduced and finally eliminated.

## Claims
Having described my invention, I claim 1. Method for improving the high frequency response in magnetic audio recording, by introduction of dynamic equalization in the recording amplifier, in that the lower levels are given the usual recording equalization, and as the input level increases the equalization is gradually decreased to a flat frequency response in the recording amplifier. 2. Means for improving the high frequency response in magnetic audio recording, wherein the recording amplifier has a feedback loop which contains an LCresonance circuit giving a peak in the frequency response at for instance 20 kHz, which peak is damped by diodes and resistances, so that the diode resistance is a function of the current through the diode, which current is delivered by a controller which monitors the output level of the amplifier, and at low levels remains constant giving low diode resistance, and as the signal level increases beyond a fixed level, the controller reduces the current and thereby the diode resistance increases, so that the influence of the resonance circuit is gradually removed.

## Description
METHOD AND MEANS FOR IMPROVING THE HIGH FREQUENCYRESPONSE IN MAGNETIC AUDIO RECORDING The present inven tion relates to a method and means for improving the high frequency response in magnetic audio recording, especially cassette decks by which the tape speed is relatively low. In order to achieve flat frequency response throughout the 20 to 20 000 Hz audio spectrum, the audio signal supplied to the recording head must be given a rather large treble boost and a slight bass boost. The process of pre emphazing the high and low frequencies before they reach the tape is called recording equalizationj and is intended to equalize the overall recording playback frequency response of the apparatus, by use of normal playback head and internationally standardised playback equalization. As the absolute amount of recording equalization used may vary slightly from one model to another, the curve A shown in figure 1 is typical for a top quality cassette deck in which flat response is maintained up to 20 000 Hz. Using the recording treble pre emphasis A in figure 1 the amount of bass boost is so small that it can be ignored in the present case , it is possible to obtain flat frequency response with a top quality apparatus, provided the input level to the recording head is sufficiently small in the high frequency area.Usually the test of frequency response of, for instance cassette decks, is made at a level 20 to 30 dB below the DIN reference level of 250 nWblm. Unfortunately, however in practice the high frequency content of music signals often exceeds the safe level, and highfrequency overload 1 appears which is magnetic saturation of the tape, which is a serious problem by users of cassette decks since the introduction of the slowspeed format. Tis problem rill be expla ined further with reference to figure 2 which shows the signal handling capacity of the tape itself at high and low frequencies and which were made using a high quality cassette tape Maxell UDXL I and a cassette deck Tandberg TCD These input output curves disclose a number of interesting points beyond the obvious fact that the tape will not hold nearly as much signal at 15000 Hz as it will at 333 Hz.For one thing the linear portion of the curves A and B, where the output faithfully tracks the input level, the distance between the two parallel diagonal lines simultaneou sly represents a the amount of record equalization needed to obtain flat frequency response and b the number of dB below a so called O VU level that must be used by recording in order to achieve a flat frequency response.For another thing, it can be seen that 24 dB represents the maximum obtainable output point 1 C on the curve at 15 kHz, and from the point of view.of the tape, it does not matter whether the corresponding input level, supplied by the music alone with no recording equalization, or by a lower level musical harmonic boosted up by conventional record equalization, the tape will hold just so much 15 kHz information and not a fraction of a dB more. The recording signal may be increased to 4 dB at 333 Hz and the distortion is then 48. At 15 kHz the linearity is maintained to 8 dBss with a maximu m output at 4 dB indicated by the point C in figure 2. An increase of the recording signal above the said point results in a decreased output while the intermodulation increases very fast as shown. The object of the present invention is there fore to achieve an expansion of the higher frequency input signals without introducing intermodulation which exceeds the standard 5 . This is according to the invention obtained by introduction of dynamic equalization in the recording amplifier, in that lower levels are given the usual recording equalization and as the input level increases the equalization is gradually decreased to a flat frequency response in the recording amplifier. Below one embodiment of the invention will be explained in reference to the drawing In the drawing figure 1 the curve A shows a usual recording .equalization, and the curve B shows a recording equalization which is necessary to obtain 5 intermodulation at any frequency. Figure 2 shows the signal handling capacity of the tape itself at high and low frequencies. Figure 3 shows a diagram for a recording amplifier according to the present invention. Figure 4 shows the resulting overall frequency response of a cassette deck using the means according to the invention compared with the frequency response of a conventional cassette deck at 250 nWb m recording level. The recording amplifier in figure 3 has a frequency response adaptive to the input level, determined by the feedback loop, which contains a resonance circuit LC1 giving 9 peak in the frequency response at 20 kHz. The peak is damped by the components D1, D2, R5 and R6. The diode resistance is a function of the current through them, and the damping of the peak is controlled by the current Ir. The controller monitors the output level of the amplifier G s and produces the control current Ir, which remains constant 2 mA at low levels which results in a low diode resistance and therefore a peak at high frequencies, mainly determined by R5 and R6 in parallel. As the input level increases beyond a fixed value, the controller takes action and reduces the current Ir and thereby increases the diode resistance and consequently the preemphazing is reduced, At extremely high input levels the control current Ir equals zero and the influence of the resonance circuit is removed completely. The amplification is determined by R2 R3 R3 for the medium frequencies and R4.C4 determines the boost of the lower frequencies. Figure 4 shows the improved frequency response obtained by preventing saturation of the tape at higher frequencies according to the invention, which by reference level 0 dB gives 12 dB greater output at 10 kHz.