# Recording medium, method of making a recording or a stamper and recording apparatus.

## Abstract
A video disc 11 is made by using the heat of a modulated focussed laser beam 13 as in prior proposals, but in order to get a more accurate record track, the medium on which the video disc record is made includes nitro cellulose, or some other explosive material which is heated to its autoignition point when the heat in the focussed laser beam is above the critical level at which a pit is to be formed in the surface of the record.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A recording medium for use with a focussed recording beam of radiation and consisting of a substrate carrying a coating which comprises a material capable of explosion locally where energised by the beam when the beam intensity is great enough to produce local irregularities in the coating. 2. A medium as claimed in Claim 1 in which the explosive material has low thermal conductivity and is arranged when heated to its auto ignition point to react chemically to produce non condensable gas. 3. A medium as claimed in Claim 1 or Claim 2 in which the explosive material is nitro cellulose or trinitroaniline, or trinitrotoluene. 4. A medium as claimed in any of the preceding claims in which the coating also comprises a radiation energy absorbing dye. 5. A medium as claimed in any of the preceding claims including a metallic layer between the substrate and the coating. 6. A medium as claimed in any of the preceding claims in which the coating is between 1300 and 1400 AO thick. 7. A medium as claimed in any of Claims 1 5 in which the coating is more than 4000 A0 thick. 8. A medium as claimed in any of the preceding claims including a relatively thin metal layer over the coating. 9. A medium as claimed in Claim 8 in which the relatively thin metal layer is less than 200 AO thick. 10. A method of making a recording in which a beam of radiation is focussed on a recording medium as claimed in any preceding claim, and is moved over a track in relation to the surface of the medium while the beam intensity is varied in accordance with the information to be recorded to cause, where the intensity is such as to raise the local temperature of the medium above the auto ignition point of the explosive material, local explosions in the material producing irregularities in the surface of the coating along the track. 11. A method as claimed in Claim 10 in which the beam intensity is raised periodically sufficiently to cause explosions leaving pits in the surface of the medium. 12. A method as claimed in Claim 10 in which the beam intensity is raised periodically sufficient to cause local explosions which do not break the surface of the recording medium, and so leave a line of irregularities in the form of bumps in the surface. 13. A method as claimed in any of Claims 10 12 in which the irregularities are narrower than the beam at the point of focus. 14. A method as claimed in any of Claims 10 13 in which the beam of the point of focus is less than 10000 AO in diameter, and acts on a local part of the surface of the medium for less than 100 nanoseconds. 15. A record comprising an information track of local irregularities in the surface of a recording medium as claimed in any of Claims 1 9 16. A record as claimed in Claim 15 in which the irregularities are pits with a dept of the order of 1000 A . 17. A record as claimed in Claim 15 in which the irogularities are pits with a depth within the range 4000 6000 A . 18. A record as claimed in any of Claims 15 17 in which the recording medium is as claimed in Claim 5 and in which the pits expose the metallic layer. 19. A record as claimed in Claim 15, in which the irregularities are in the form of bumps in the surf ace of the medium. 20. A ecord as clamed in any of Claims 15 19, in which the track s of the order of 3000 A wide. 21. A record as claimed in any of Claims 15 20 in which the substrate is of flexible plastics material. 22. A record as claimed in any of Claims 15 21 in the form of a disc carrying a concentric or spiral information track. 23. A record as claimed in any of Claims 15 22 including a protective substrate spaced from the coating on the other side of the coating from the substrate. 24. A record as claimed in any of Claims 15 22 including a second recording medium, the coating on the two media being back to back, and the two substrates being transparent to the beam of radiation. 25. A metal stamper made by depositing metal on a record as claimed in any of Claims 15 22 and then removing the deposited metal. 26. A video disc or other record made from a metal stamping as claimed in Claim 25, or otherwise from a record as claimed in any of Claims 15 22.

## Description
RECORDING MEDIUM, METHOD OF RECORD x AND RECORD This invention relates to records having a surface carrying a track of irregularities containing information to be recorded and read. The invention has particular application to video disc records carrying concentric or spiral tracks of alternate plane portions and pits or bumps as generally described for example inBritish Patent Specification No. 1462791 and in the Article A Review of the MCA Disco VisionSystem by Broadbent in Information Display Volume 12, pages 12 19, published in April, 1976.The invention is equally applicable to other types of record for example computer storage systems and memories. In the past the information tracks have been formed by focussing an intensity modulated write beam of light from a laser onto the surface of the disc to cause the bumps or pits or other irregularities either by burning them into the surface of the disc, or by exposing photo resist material, and an object of the invention is to provide a novel method of forming the irregularities still using a beam of intensity modulated radiation but by a method enabling finer and cleaner irregularities to be formed so that the information can be more arcuately recorded at a greater density on the surface of the disc, the formation being immediate without the necessity of a subsequent developing process, and by a method giving immediate monitoring with a read after write system enabling variation of the write process if any inaccuracy is detected. According to one aspect of the present invention, a recording medium comprises a material capable of explosion locally where energised by the beam when the beam intensity is great enough to produce local irregularities in the coating. The explosive material may be nitro cellulose trinitroaniline, or trinitrotoluene for example any of which can be raised to its auto ignition point by the focussed beam of laser light or other radiation to cause an explosion and chemical reaction producing non condensible gas. Such an explosion can be sufficient to break the surface of the coating on the substrate to produce a pit as an irregularity in the information track, or can be only partial so as to cause a bump consituting an irregularity without breaking the surface. The size of the pit or bump can be accurately controlled and in fact tends to be smaller than the focussed spot of the beam of radiation, so that a very accurate information track can be formed. With a beam spot 5000 A in diameter, it is possible to produce a pit only 3000 A wide. The depth of the pit might be between 1000 2000 A where it is to pass completsely through the coating to expose a metallic layer on the surface of the substrate under the coating, or it might be between 4000 6000 AO deep where it does not penetrate completely through the depth of a coating of perhaps 10000 A0 thickness. Where a pit is required a beam energy of 20 milliwatts might be suitable, but where a partial explosion leaving a bump is required, a beam energy of 1 milliwatt may be sufficient. In a typical case the rate of movement of the disc in relation to the write beam might be such that each local area of the coating surface is subjected to the beam for no more than about 100 nanoseconds. Where bumps are formed in the coating a metallic layer may be subsequently deposited over the bumped surface of the coating. Where the heat of the beam is used to cause the explosion in the explosive material, it may be necessary to include a dye so as to absorb the radiation and ensure that sufficient local heating occurs. Of course the coating material will be a more thermal conductor for the same reason. The coating may be deposited on the glass or other substrate by initially mixing the explosive material and a dye if one is required with a suitable solvent, which is then poured over the upper surface of the substrate which is then spun until a liquid coating with a uniform thickness is obtained and then until further spinning evaporates the solvent.The coating thickness can be controlled by choosing the viscosity of the solution and the angular velocity of spinning. For master discs from which stampers can be taken for mass producing replicas, the substrate is likely to be glass with a highly polished surface and possibly with a thin metal layer between the glass and the coating. Then after recording the information as a track of irregularities a metal layer may be vacumn deposited on the surface by thermal evaporation followed by the electro plating of a thicker metal layer. The stamper so formed by the double metal layer can be removed for subsequent production of replicas. Where a read after write disc is to be made , for example, in a home recording, the substrate is likely to be a plastics material, for example polymethyl methacrylate which is fairly thin and flexible and has the explosive coating deposited on it. There may then be a disc shaped plastic protective layer positioned spaced from the recorded surface of the coating to define a cavity. The write beam of radiation can be directed either through the protective layer, or from the other side through the substrate, so that one or other must be transparent to the radiation. A double sided disc can be formed by having two substrates each with its explosive coating the coatings being back to back, so that the substrates form the respective exposed surfaces of the double disc. Then the substrates will have to be transparent to the write beam of radiation. If the recording is to be in the form of bumps, rather than in the form of pits, then the coating including the explosive material may have a thin. metallic layer over it before the recording is made, perhaps being between 100 200 AO thick.The intensity modulated recording beam of radiation can be directed either through such a thin metallic layer, or through the substrate, and in that case the heating of the coating locally to the auto ignition point will be primarily by thermionic or photo electric emission of electrons from the metallic layer so that a dye is not necessary in the coating. The invention includes a method of making a record and a record whether made by such a method, or made from such a recording medium, or indeed from a stamper made from such a record. The invention may be carried into practice in various ways, and certain embodiments will now be described by way of example, with reference to the accompanying drawings in which FIGURE 1 is a simplified block diagram of apparatus for recording a data signal on a record disc, and for recovering the signal therefrom to verify that it has been properly recorded FIGURE 2 is an enlarged plan view of a portion of the record disc depicted in FIGURE 1, showing the arrangement of pits or bumps representative of the recorded data signal FIGURE 3 is a cross sectional view not to scale of a prior art photoresist recording medium after development FIGURE 4 is a cross sectional view not to scale of a master recording disc of the present invention showing an information bearing pit formed in a special explosive coating FIGURE 5 is a cross sectional view not to scale of an alternative master recording disc of the present invention, showing an information bearing bump formed in the special explosive coating FIGURE 6 is a cross sectional view not to scale of a direct read after write recording disc having a single recording surface, with information bearing bumps formed therein and FIGURE 7 is a cross sectional view not to scale of a direct read after write recording disc having two recording surfaces, with information bearing bumps being shown in both surfaces. FIGURE 1 shows a master disc recording apparatus for recording a frequency modulated video signal or digital signal, on a rotatable master recording disc 11. Such a master disc can be used to produce a stamper for use in a moulding apparatus not shown for producing disc replicas. The recording apparatus operates to direct a write beam of light 13 from an argon in laser 43 onto the disc, as the disc is rotated at a prescribed angular velocity, the beam being modulated in intensity according to a data signal to be recorded. This forms a succession of microscopic information bearing pits 15 or bumps 17 FIGURE 2 , arranged in a plurality of substantially circular recording tracks 19 in a spiral or concentric circle pattern on the disc. The recording apparatus further operates to focus nto the dise a read beam of light 21 from a helium neon laser 55 operating at 6328 A , having a constant intensity, substantially less than the peak intensity of the write beam 13, to scan the successive pits 15 or bumps 17 immediately after they are formed by the write beam. This permits a continuous control of both the power level and focus of the write beam, so that the signal can be recorded properly over the entire disc. FIGURE 3 is a simplified cross sectional view not to scale of a known recording disc which includes a glass substrate 23 having a polished upper surface 25, and having a coating 27 of photoresist material for example to an intensity modulated write beam of light as the disc is rotated. The photoresist coating is then suitably developed, to remove all of the material in the spaced, illuminated regions, yielding a master disc having a succession of spaced pits 29. The size of each pit in the photoresist coating cannot generally be made smaller than the l e2 diameter of the diffraction limited spot formed by the focused write beam. The pits 29 are characterised by sharply defined sidewalls 31 that are ragged and grainy in structure.This roughened structure, which is duplicated in the resultant stamper, can result in damage to the disc replicas during the moulding procedure. The disc of FIGURE 4 includes a glass substrate 33 having a highly polishod, planar surface 35 on its upper side, with a thin layer 37 of setallic material deposited thereon. Addtionally, a special light sbsorbing coating 39 is deposited on the metallic layer. The write beam of light 13 is transmitted through a medium of air adjacent the dise and focused to a dffraction limited spot 41 on the outer surface of the special coating. In accordance with the invention, the special coating 39 includes an explosive material and is highly absorptive of the intensity modulated write beam of light 13, whereby as the disc 11 is rotated with respect to the beat., the coating is selectively heated by t ae beam to induce spaced explosions therein, forming corresponding irregulerities, in the form of mierossopte pits 15, reprecentative of the data signal.Tie spaced pifs are substantially free of any residue materiel and are free of sharp corners and roughened sidewalls, whereby the risk of damage to the disc replicas that are eventually produced is reduced, and whereby the signal to noise ratio of the data signals recovered frm such disc replicas is improved andditionally, the cross sectional size of the pits can be made small relative to the diffraction limited spot of the focused write be m, thereby further increasing the signal to noise ratio of the data signals that can be recovered from the dise Teplicas. The metallic layer 37 is interposed. between the substrate 22 and the information beating explosive coating 39 for two major purposes, one to mprove the bnding of the coating material, and the other te provide inereased refloctivity of the read beam of lght 21, which scang the ding immodiatel after formation of the pits 15. Although the preferred metal for the layer 37 is titanium, there are other suitable metals, such as chromium and aluminium. In this embodiment, titanium is vacuum deposited by thermal evaporation onto the upper surface 35 of the glass substrate 33, to a thickness of approximately 500 A . The explosive material included in the special light absorbing coating 39 is a substance that will explode or undergo a rapid chemical reaction to produce gases whenever heated to its auto ignition temperature. The coating has a low thermal conductivity so that only the portions of the coating on which the intensity modulated write beam 13 actually impinges are heated to the critical temperature. Moreover, it is important that the gaseous products of the rapid chemical reaction not condense back onto the coating or onto portions of the recording apparatus after they have cooled. Suitable explosive materials are nitrocellulose, trinitroaniline and trinitrotoluene The write beam 13 is produced by a conventional argon ion laser which produces a beam having components at approximately 457, 488, and 514 nanometers. Accordingly, to be heated by the intensity modulated write beam, the coating 39 must be absorptive of these wavelengths. Neither nitrocellulose nor trinitrotoluene is inherently highly absorptive of these wavelenths, so whenever these explosive materials are utilised, the coating further includes a suitable orange or red coloured dye that is highly absorptive of the wavelengths. The dye must be color stahle aiid nrust be esdily soluble with the explosive material used.The preferred dye is sold byAmerica Color Chemical Co. under the rademarkAMPLAS ORANGS CR, but other suitable dyes include another dye sDld by American Color Chemical Co., this one under the mark ANAPLASTSCARLET MM, and also 1 phenl azo 2 napthol and azobenzene 4 azo 2 napthol, sold by Du Pont under the marks OIL ORANGE and OIL RED, respectively. The special explosive coating 39 is deposited en the upper surface of the metallic layer 37 using a special process in which the explosive material and the dye, if regairess, are initially admixed with suitable solvent. Ir. the preferred process, ten parts by weight of nitrocellulose, three parts of AMPLAS ORANGECR dy, and about 300 400 parts of the slvent cellosolve acetate, are combined to yield a solution having a viscosity of about 3 5 centipoise. Other suitable solvents. for the explosive material and dye mixture inalude butyl acetate and amyl acotate. The licuid solution is then poured on the upper surface of the metallic layer 37, and the coated aubstrata 33 and integral metallic layer are then spun at an angular velocity of about 1000 rpm until the solution has achieve. a uniform thickness over the entie surfase. Cntinued spining at abot 1000 rpm fer about 20 30 seconds evaporates the collosolve ccttc cmpletely, led viny the special coating 39 in the form o . slid solution bonded to the upper surface of the metallic layer. The thicknues of tlle coating 39 can be controlled by varying the viscoaty of the solution and or the spin speed. A final thickuezs of about 1300 1400 AO is preferred, because the pits 15 that are thereafter formed in the coating will have a corresponding depth, thereby enhancing the readability of replicas of this master disc. More specifically, when such replica discs are formed of polymethylmethacrylate, 1300 1400 AO corresponds to approximately one quarter wavelength of a read beam produced by a conventional helium neon laser .e. 6328 A in a disc playback apparatus. It has been found that for a coating 39 having this prescribed thickness and having the prescribed relative proportions of nitrocellulose and the specified dye, microscopic pits having a width of about .3 microns are formed by a write beam 13 that is 2 focused to a l e diameter of about .5 microns and that has a total power of about 20 milliwatts. The write beam impinges on a selected location on the disc 11 for a time period of less than about 100 nanoseconds. After the pattern of microscopic pits 15, has been formed, a metallic overlayer not shown is deposited onto the recorded coating 39. The metallic overlayer is then removed from the underlying disc to produce a stamper which, in turn, is used in a moulding apparatus to produce replicas of the master disc. FIGURE 5 is a simplified cross sectional view of an alternative master disc 11 in accordance with the present invention. The disc is identical in structure to the disc 11 of FIGURE 4, except that it is adapted to absorb less energy from the intensity modulated write beam of light 13. For a coating 39 having the same composition as that specified for the coating of FIGURE 4, the intensity modulated write beam 13 need have a power level of only about one milliwatt. As a result, there is sufficient energy to induce only incomplete explosions in the spaced areas on the coating that are illuminated by the scanning write beam, whereby an upraised bump 17 is formed at each such area due to trapping of gases produced in the rapid chemical reaction that occurs in the coating when heated by the write beam. Metallic stampers can be formed from this master disc. In another embodiment not shown , the special explosive coating s overlayed by a thin, metallie coating, having a thickness of about 100 200 A , before the disc is scanned by the intensity modulated write beam 13. Like the embodiment of FIGURE 5, only partial explosions are induced in the explosive coating, producing upraised bumps therein and corresponding upraised bumps in the overlaying metallic coating.In this embodiment, the write beam preferably has a power level of about 2 milliwatts and is focused onto the overlaying metallic layer from above the disc, in which case the spaced, partial explosions in the underlying coating are induced by both thermionic and photoelectric emission of electrons from the metallic layer into the coating, and the explosive coating need not include a dye. Alternatively, the write beam can be focused onto the coating from below, through the substrate. In another embodiment not shown , the explosive coating has a thickness greater than about one micron, and the surface irregularities are in the form of pits that extend only partially into the top surface of the coating. The intensity modulated write beam 13 is focused onto the top surface of the coating from above the disc. Because the depth of focus of the beam is limited to about .2 microns, however, the focused beam begins to diverge a short distance beneath the surface.As a result, the intensity of the beam is sufficiently high to heat the explosive material to its autoignition temperature only within about .4 .6 microns of the upper surface. The operation of the apparatus of FIGURE 1 will now be briefly described. The write beam 13 is modulated in an intensity modulater 43 controlled by data on the line 45. The intensity of the modulated beam is alternately greater than and less than a threshold at which the explosive material in the coating 39 will reach its auto ignition temperature. The modulated beam 13 passes through a first beam splitter 47 to a mirror 49, where it is reflected and transmitted to a low numerical operative lens 51, which focuses it to the diffractionlimited spot 41 on the disc 11. The disc is rotated by a motor 53, and the mirror and the objective lens are mounted on a carriage not shown that is movable radially so that the data signal can be recorded in a plurality of substantially circular recording tracks 39. The read beam of light 21, which is utilised in reading the data signal immediately afte it has been recorded on the disc, is produced by a read laser 55. The beam has a constant intensity, substantially less than that of the write beam 13, The read laser can advantageously comprise a helium neon laser, which produces a beam having a wavelength of approximately 6328 A . The read beam 21 passes through a second beam splitter 57 to the first beam splitter 47, where it is reflected and combined with the write beam 13.Thereafter, it follows essentially the same path as the write beam until it is focussed to a diffraction limited spot 59 on the disc 11. The two beams are aligned such that their respective spots 41 and 59 are approximately 5 microns apart and at a common radius, with the write spot 41 in the lead The read beam of light 21 has a constant intensity that is insufficient to heat the explosive coating to its auto ignition temperature, and after reflection is modulated in intensity by the recorded pattern of pits or bumps. From the second beam splitter 57, the reflected beam is transmitted to a photodetector 61, which demodulates the beam and produces on a line 63a corresponding read after write electrical signal for continuously controlling both the power level and the focus of the write beam, whereby the data signal can be properly recorded over the entire surface of the disc 11. The invention can also be used for making direct read after write i.e. DRAW discs, which are single recordings that are not used for purposes of relication and may be made for example on a home recorder. The explosive coating is on an interior, protected surface of the disc, and the substrate is thin and resilient. The information bearing surface irregularities can be in the form of pits or bumps. FIGURE 6 depicts one embodiment of such a DRAW disc having one information bearing surface. A plastic substrate 65 of polymethylmethacrylate has a light absorbing coating that includes an explosive layer 67 and an overlaying thin metallic layer 69. Additionally, a disc shaped plastic protective layer 71 is spaced approximately .020 inches above the metallic layer, to form a closed annular cavity 73 that protects the metallic layer from duct and abrasion. The explosive layer 67 has a thickness of about 10,000 A0, so that any effects the solvent might have on the underlying plastic substrate will not affect the upper portion of the coating, where information bearing bumps 75 are formed by partial explosions in the underlying portions of the explosive layer 67. The write beam can impinge on the metallic layer through the underlying substrate 65 or from above, through the spaced protective layer 71. Since the explosive layer is energised not by absorption of the write beam, but rather by thermionic or photoelectric emission of electrons from the metallic layer, it is not necessary for the coating to include a dye. The read beam of light 21, which trails the write beam 13 by a prescribed amount, is reflected by the metallic layer 69 in accordance with the pattern of bumps 17 formed therein. FIGURE 7 shows a DRAW disc with two information bearing surfaces. The disc includes two plastic substrates 77a and 77b with a light absorbing explosive layer 79a or 79b on each substrate, and an overlaying metallic layer 81a or 81b. The metal layers are back to back so that the uncoated faces of the substrates are the exposed faces of the combined disc. The substrates must be transparent to the intensity modulated write beam 13. The explosive layer need not include a dye. The present invention provides a recording medium enabling surface bumps or pits to be formed therein without the formation of any substantial residue material or rough edges. Data signals can be recorded in the medium with a very high signal tonoise ratio.