# Aqueous basic polyaluminum iron halide solutions and method of preparing.

## Abstract
Aqueous basic polyaluminum iron halide solutions, useful as coagulants in waste water treatment are disclosed. The polyaluminum iron halide solution is prepared by reacting an aqueous polyaluminum halide solution with one or more members of the group consisting of ferrous halide and ferric halide resulting in a solution containing a concentration of metal ions ranging from about 1.35 to 4.5 mol liter as a dissolved salt of the formula Al

## Claims
We claim 1. An aqueous basic polyaluminum iron halide solution containing a composition of the formulaEMI15.1 wherein Hal is chlorine, bromine, iodine or mixtures thereof g is about 0.2 to 1.5 t is about 0.24 to 0.67 and z is less than 3 2y x y is about 0 to 1 and wherein the concentration of the metal ions is from about 1.35 to 4.5 moles liter. 2. The aqueous solution as set forth in claim 1 wherein the halogen Hal is chloride C1 . 3. The solution as set forth in claim 1 wherein x y is from about 0.4 to about 0.6. l x 4. The solution as set forth in claim 1 wherein 3 2y z is from about 0.5 to about 0.67. 3 2y 5. The solution as set forth in claim 1 wherein the molar ratio of ferrous to total iron is from about 0.5 to about 1.0. 6. The solution as set forth in claim 1 wherein the basic polyaluminum iron halide is fully dissolved in the aqueous medium. 7. A method of preparing an aquegus basic polyaluminum iron halide solution containing a concentration of metal ions ranging from about 1.35 to 4.5 mol liter as a dissolved salt of the formulaEMI15.2 wherein Hal is chlorine, bromine, iodine or mixtures thereof x y is 0.2 to 1.5 yz is 0.24 to 0.67 and z is less than 3 2y x y is about 0 to 1 and wherein the concentration of the metal ions is from about 1.35 to 4.5 moles liter by mixing a polyaluminum halide solution with one or more members of the group consisting of ferrous halide and ferric halide. 8. The method as set forth in claim 7 wherein the halide is chloride. 9. A method of preparing an aqueous basic polyaluminum iron halide solution containing a concentration of metal ions ranging from about 1.35 to 4.5 mol liter as a dissolved salt of the formulaEMI16.1 wherein Hal is chlorine, bromine, iodine or mixtures thereof M is 0.2 to 1.5 3 2y z is 0.24 to 0.67 and z is less than 3 2y x y is about 0 to 1 and wherein the concentration of the metal ions is from about 1.35 to 4.5 moles liter which comprises reacting an aqueous aluminum halide solution or aqueous low basic polyaluminum halide solution with metallic iron. 10. The method as set forth in claim 9 wherein the halide is chloride.

## Description
DESCRIPTION AQUEOUS BASIC POLYALUMINUM IRON HALIDE SOLUTIONS AND METHOD OF PREPARING FIELD OF THE INVENTION The present invention relates to aqueous basic polyaluminum iron halide solutions useful as coagulants in waste water treatment. BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION Wastewaters frequently require treatment in order to remove carried materials which could damage the environment. Alum and ferric salts such as ferric sulfate and ferric chloride, and chlorinated copperas, are well known coagulants, particularly in waters having a pH in the acid range between 4.5 and 6.5. Ferrous salts likewise are effective coagulants in this alkaline pH range. Other known coagulants include basic halide salts of either iron or aluminum. SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION An aqueous basic polyaluminum iron halide solution and methods for preparing same are disclosed.The solution contains a polyaluminum iron halide of the formula wherein N is fr t is f rom ab EMI1.1 out 0.24 to about 0.67 and z is less than 3 2y. Hal is chlorine, bromine or iodine or mixtures thereof. In a preferred aspect of the invention the solution contains a polyaluminum iron chloride of the formula wherein 1 x y is fr 3 2y z i8from 3 2y is from ab EMI2.1 out 0.24 to about 0.67 andEMI2.2 than 3 2y. Solutions having concentrations of metal ions ranging from about 1.35 to 4.5 mole liter are preferred.The solutions are useful as coagulants in waste water treatment, especially at alkaline pH values. DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION According to the present invention aqueous polyaluminum iron halide solutions of the formulaEMI2.3 wherein Hal is chlorine, bromine, iodine or mixtures thereof with chlorine preferred 4 is about 0.2 to 1.5 the molar ratio of iron II and iron III to aluminum is in the range of about 0.2 to 1.5 t is about 0.24 to 0.67 the mole percent of hydroxide OH to the sum of hydroxide and halogen Hal is in the range of 24 to 67 and z is less than 3 2y are coagulants for water treatment. The ratio of x y can be any value and is preferably from about 0 to 1. Thus, the molar ratio of ferric to ferrous is in the range from about 0 to 1, i.e., the mole percent ferrous is preferably from 50 to 100 and the mole percent of ferric is preferably from 0 to 50 .Preferably, N is about 0.4 to 0.6. Also preferred are solutions wherein 3 2µyz is from about 0.5 to about 0.67. Thus, the mole percent of hydroxide to the sum of hydroxide and halogen in the solution is in the range of about 50 to 67 . The ratio of ferrous ions to total iron is preferably from about 0.5 to 1.0 and z represents the relative amount of halide present. The basicity is defined as the ratio 3 2y z The preferred concentration of the solutions is from about 1.35 to 4.5 mole liter of metal ions. Thus, the sum of l x aluminum and x ferric and y ferrous , i.e., the sum of the preferred concentration of metal ions equal to lly is in the range of about 1.35 to 4.5 moles liter, i.e., the preferred concentration of ferrous y is in the range of 0.35 to 3.5 moles liter.A complete solution of the salts in the water is preferred. The aqueous basic polyaluminum iron halide solutions of this invention may be prepared by one of the following methods. Although chloride solutions are specifically described, other halides bromide, iodide and mixed solutions can be similarly prepared. An aqueous polyaluminum chloride solution is mixed with one or more members of the group consisting of ferrous chloride and ferric chloride. The materials are mixed at ambient condition. Polyaluminum chloride solutions are available commercially, at concentrations ranging from 13 to 24 weight A1203 and basicities of from about 40 to 83 mole . The polyaluminum chloride solutions may be prepared by a variety of processes such as those disclosed in U.S.P. 2,196,016, U.S.P. 2,392,153, U.S.P.2,392,531 and U.S.P. 2,791,486, which are herein incorporated by reference. Aqueous solutions of polyaluminum chloride useful as starting solutions for mixing have molar concentrations from about 3 to 6 and a basicity from about 40 to 85 mole percent. The ferric chloride and ferrous chloride materials can be employed in solid form but are preferably employed as aqueous solutions. Aqueous ferrous chloride solution is available commercially in technical form as spent pickle liquor, or may be readily prepared by dissolving commercial FeCl2.4H2O in the appropriate quantity of water. Concentrations of up. to 40 weight percent ferrous chloride in water may be obtained. Aqueous ferric chloride solution is available commercially in technical form as a by product from oreprocessing operations containing typically about 45 weight percent ferric chloride or may be readily prepared by dissolving commercially available FeCl3.6H2O in the appropriate amount of water. Alternatively the aqueous halide solution of this invention may be prepared by reacting an aqueous aluminum solution or aqueous low basic polyaluminum halide solution i.e. having a basicity of about 0 to 30 percent with metallic iron . When the halide is chloride, the concentration of the aluminum chloride solution is from about 1 to 3 mole liter. The molar concentration of the basic aluminum chloride solution is from about 1 to 3 mole liter and the basicity of the basic aluminum chloride solution is from about 0 to 30 mole .The iron can be scrap metal, filings, chips, etc. and has a content of iron over about 92 percent. The reaction temperature of the solution with the iron is preferably near the boiling point from about 100 to 1100C. The reaction time for dissolving the iron in the solution is dependent on temperature and the particle size of the iron and may require several days. After reacting with the iron the solution is preferably filtered to remove suspended solid materials. In such a solution the iron is present largely as divalent iron.In the presence of air and or oxygen the ferrous iron in the solution would oxidize to ferric iron. Alternatively, the aqueous halide solutions of this invention are prepared by reacting high iron content aluminous ores with hydrohalic acid. When the hydrohalic acid is hydrochloric acid, then the amount of hydrochloric acid is deficient relative to formation of stoichiometric salts from the ore. The amount of hydrochloric acid employed corresponds to a halide salt formation of the ore metals from 40 to 80 percent. Ores useful in the present invention include Argentine laterite, low grade high iron bauxite, or other ferruginous alumina ores. The hydrochloric acid employed has a concentration of from about 20 to 37 weight percent. The temperature of the reaction with hydrochloric acid is preferably near the boiling point of the mixture, which can be raised by application of pressure. The reaction time is from about 50 to 150 hours. Preferably the resulting solution is filtered to remove suspended solids. Preferably, the aforesaid reaction is carried out in a countercurrent fashion, i.e. the flow of the two reactants is in opposite directions and the desired solution is withdrawn from the same side as where the ore is entered. Preferably, hydrochloric acid of a concentration from about 20 to 37 weight is applied to a leached ore. The resulting solution alone or admixed with water is then applied to a less leached ore. This step may be repeated several times. Finally the fresh ore is contacted with a solution containing the metals dissolved from prior leached ores. Alternatively, the aqueous halide solutions of this invention are prepared by reacting an aqueous ferric chloride solution with alumina. Alumina suitable for reaction with ferric chloride contains from about 25 to 65 weight percent aluminum oxide. The ferric chloride solution has a concentration of from about 20 to 40 weight percent. The relative weight ratio of ferric chloride to alumina employed in the reaction is from about 1 to 5. The solutions obtained by the methods set forth above have properties depending substantially on their composition and are substantially equivalent despite the variances in the modes of preparation. The coagulants of the present invention are equivalent to or better than conventional high performance coagulants such as Taki PACS 250AD a polyaluminum chloride sulfate for water treatment. The coagulants of the present invention are economically attractive in having some aluminum replaced by iron. The coagulants of the present invention can be prepared employing inexpensive starting materials such as metallic iron scrap, by product ferric chloride or spent pickle liquor. The stability of the solutions obtained decreases with increasing metal concentration, iron to aluminum ratio and basicity. Solutions containing higher proportions of ferrous ions are more stable as long as the ferrous ion is not oxidized to ferric ion. The coagulation performance is determined on the basis of turbidity reduction by a selected single dose using a standard coagulation jar1 test similar to that described in ASTM D2035 68. The turbidity reduction as a measure of coagulation performance is given in terms of Residual Turbidity reported in Formazin Turbidity Units F.T.U. and measured on a Hack TurbidityMeter which was standardized with formazin solutions of varying concentrations. The F.T.U. is a unitless quantity. One Formazin Turbidity Unit F.T.U. is the same as one Nephelometric Turbidity Unit N.T.U. . Incorporation of excessive amounts of ferric ion into polyaluminum chloride impairs the coagulation performance.Based on coagulation performance a preferred composition has a basicity from about 50 to 67 mole , from about 50 to 100 mole of the iron in ferrous form and an iron to aluminum molar ratio from about 0.4 to 0.6. Examples 1 3 These examples illustrate the production of polyaluminum iron chloride solutions PAFC by reacting basic aluminum chloride solutions PAC with FeC13 and or Fecal2 in appropriate proportions. The proportions ofPAC and iron chloride depend on the basicity of the available PAC and the desired product composition with respect to Fe Al ratio and basicity if the starting PAC is of very high basicity, a final basicity adjustment may be effected by addition of the required amount of HC1. Example 1 Polyaluminum Ferric Chloride A 54.6 mole basic PAFC was prepared by combining a commercially available basic aluminum chloride Chlorhydrol , containing 21.66 A1203, 8.20 C1, corresponding to 81.8 basic PAC with an aqueous FeC13 solution containing 26.20 Fecal 3 A12 OH 4091C11009 FeC13 A1,Fe OH 4.91C14.09 131.9 grams of the FeC13 solution was added to 100.0 grams of Chlorhydrol and 93.0 grams of water with continual stirring, producing 324.9 grams of a clear red solution of density 1.193 with the following composition A1203 Fe203 10 A1203 equivalent Fe Al molar ratio 0.50 Basicity OH 54.6 mole Example 2 Polyaluminum Ferrous Chloride This example resembles in its composition the type of PAFC produced by reacting metallic iron with normal aluminum chloride see examples 4 and 5 . The preparation from PAC is similar to that described in Example 1 except that ferrous chloride FeCl2 is used in place of ferric chloride FeCl3 . In addition, basicity is calculated differently since ferrous is divalent while ferric is trivalent. Thus, on the Schorlemmer basicity scale, an OH Fe molar ratio of 1 is designated 50 for a ferrous system and 33.3 for a ferric system. A 33 mole basic PAFC was prepared by combining Chlorhydrolw of the composition described above with an aqueous ferrous chloride solution containing 24.70 FeC12 and the required amount of HC1 Al2 OH 4.91Cl1.09 2 FeC12 1.59 HC1 A12Fe2 OH 3.32cl6.68 100.0 grams of wChlorhydrolt of the same composition as in Example 1 were treated with 53.8 grams of water.The continually stirred mixture was treated with 56.0 mL of 6.02 N HC1 followed by 217.9 grams of the FeCl2 solution producing 433.2 grams of a clear light green solution of density 1.204 with the following composition Al2O3 FeO 10 A1203 equivalent Fe Al molar ratio 1.0 Basicity OH 33 mole Example 3 Polyalumium Ferric Ferrous Chloride Compositions of this type were prepared in the same manner as in Examples 1 and 2 except that appropriate quantities of both FeC13 and FeC12 were added to the PAC. Thus, to a mixture of 87.6 grams of wChlor hydrol containing 23.58 A1203 and 8.27 C1 and 58.1 grams of water, the following were added in the sequence shown, with continual stirring 64.6 grams 37.2 HC1 100.0 grams 12.85 FeC12 55.5 grams 29.60 FeC13 producing 365.8 grams of clear orange colored solution of the following composition EMI8.1 tFeII Fe111 Al 0.50 molar ratio Al FeII Fe111 8.0 A1203 equivalent Basicity OH 50 mole A series of PAFIIIC, PAFIIC, and PAF11F111C solutions were prepared as described above covering concentrations from 7 to 12 weight Fe Al as equivalent Al2O3 , Fe Al mole ratios from 0 to 1.5, and basicities 24 to 67 mole . Coagulation performance was evaluated on the basis of turbidity removal by a selected single equivalent metal. dose 6.5 ppm equivalent alum using a standard coagulation test. Standard reference coagulants aluminum sulfate, Taki polyaluminum chloride sulfate were run at the same time for performance comparison purposes. The results are shown in Table I. The coagulation performance of polyaluminumiron chlorides is considerably superior to that of alum and approaches and even exceeds the performance ofTaki PACS at the higher basicities. TABLE 1 Coagulation Performance of Polyaluminum Ferrous and or Ferric Chloride Solutions Residual Total Fe Al Basicity TurbidityCoagulant Mole Ratio Mole F.T.U.2 x y 3 2y z l x 3 2yAlum about 0 2 17Taki PACS about 0 45 5FeCl2 about infinite about 0 20FeCl3 about infinite about 0 7.2PAFIIC about 0 33 6.4 n 0.5 33 6.6 n 1.0 33 7.3 1.5 33 9.0 0 0 50 4.0 0.25 50 4.4 0.50 50 4.5 1.0 50 6.0 0 0 67 3.5 r 0.25 67 4.5 pAFIIIC 0 33 6.4 0.25 33 7.8 0.50 33 17.0 0 0 54 6.4 0.25 54 7.4 0.50 54 13.0 n 0 67 3.5 0.25 67 3.8 pAFIIFIIIC 0 33 6.4 0.5 33 7.9 1.0 33 8.8 0 54 6.4 TABLE 1 CONTINUED Residual Total Fe Al Basicity TurbidityCoagulant Mole Ratio Mole F.T.U.2 x y 3 ay s l x 3 2y RTI ID 10.2 PAFIIFIIIC 0.5 54 7.3 1.0 54 8.0 synthetic turbid water of an initial turbidity of 21F.T.U., an initial pH of 8.0 and of an alkalinity of 100 ppm as calcium carbonate was employed as test water.The coagulant dose was 6.5 ppm alum equivalent in all cases.2F.T.U., Formazin Turbidity Unit, was measured on aHack Turbidity Meter with reference to standard Formazin solutions of varying concentrations. The data shows that the performance is lower than that of the equivalent all aluminum systems, particularly in the case of the systems in which all the iron is in the ferric form, but much less so for the systems containing ferrous, or ferrous plus ferric.Ferrous iron can replace aluminum in PAC with relatively little impairment of coagulation effectiveness while ferric iron tends to impair performance except at high basicity in which case the Fe Al ratio is limited due to physical instability . Combinations of ferrous and ferric iron appear to be intermediate in their effect but closer to the ferrous than the ferric systems. Example 4 Dissolution of iron in the aluminum chloride solution was performed. The AlCl3 solution was prepared by reacting bauxite with hydrochloric acid 36.7 weight HCl . 46 g. iron filings 40 mesh, degreased were gradually added to 1000 mL AlC13 solution 31.4 weight All3 in a 2 liter three necked reflux flask with agitation. To avoid foaming and vigorous reactions, the temperature was very slowly raised to reflux 109.60C in a period of 87 hours including overnight reactions.After refluxing for 1 2 hour, sample A was taken and filtered. To dissolve more iron in the above solution, additional iron 26 g. was added. Again the temperature was slowly raised to reflux in 50 hours and held at refluxing for 5 hours. A sample B was taken and filtered. A third batch of iron 25 g. was added to the above mixture for further increasing iron content.About 50 hours were used to raise the temperature to 700C. A third sample C was taken and filtered. As shown in Table 2, the iron content Fe2O3 in the above three samples was increased from 3.3 to 13 weight while the alumina content was slightly decreased from 9.3 to 8.4 weight . By assuming all iron was presented as ferric ion, the solution basicity was calculated and increased from 17 to 48 mole . The standard coagulation tests show that the PAFC solutions with the basicity greater than about 20 Samples B andC were superior or equivalent to the Taki 250 AD product, even after 5 months storage. The coagulation tests for the dependence of water pH on coagulation power for the PAFC solutions after more than 7 months storage were made and the results were compared with the data of liquid alum andTaki product Table 3 . The test water was synthetic turbid water with an initial turbidity of 56 F.T.U. and an alkalinity of 100 ppm as calcium carbonate. The pH was adjusted by addition or removal of carbon dioxide or by treatment with sodium carbonate as required. The coagulant dose was 6.5 ppm alum equivalent in all cases.The data indicate that the coagulant of the present invention after prolonged aging was less pH dependent and was still better than the Taki product when the final water pH was greater than 8. At about pH 9 theTaki solution showed a residual turbidity of 18 whereas sample C had a residual turbidity of about 15 and sampleB had a residual turbidity of 14. For the data in Table 3 synthetic turbid water was employed having an initial turbidity of 56. The dose employed was 6.5 ppm alum equivalent and the alkalinity of the treated water was 100 ppm as CaCO3 . The iron existed as ferrous ion in the above solutions at the beginning. Some of the ferrous ion was slowly oxidized to ferric ion. After almost one year storage, about 38 of the iron was present as ferric ion and 62 as ferrous ion. Example 5 Example 4 was conducted at high concentration of A1203 or C1 conditions. The solubility of Awl203 in polyaluminum chloride solutions depends on the basicity.The solution tends to gel or solidify if the total A1203 is higher than its solubility. The present example was similar to Example 4 except that the total equivalent concentration of Awl203 and Fe2O3 was controlled at 16 with addition of water at the beginning. A mixture of 500 mL Alp13 solution 25 AlC13, prepared from bauxite , 52 g. iron and 217 mL water were added to a one liter three necked reflux flask. The mixture was heated gradually from room temperature to 900C and maintained at 90 1000C for 38 hours. A sampleD was taken and filtered. The mixture was further reacted for an additional 20 hours. Another sample E was taken. To increase the basicity further, 311 g. of above mixture was added with 21 g. iron and 62 mL water for continued reaction with total equivalent A1203 concentration controlled at 21 weight . The mixture was reacted at 950C for 20 hours and a sample was taken Sample F . The remaining mixture was reacted at the refluxing temperature 1030C for 22 hrs. The mixture became thicker during this operation. The chemical compositions and coagulation data of samples D and F are given in Table 2. TABLE 2 CHEMICAL COMPOSITIONS AND COAGULATION DATA 200C Compositions, pH Residual wt. Basic Initial TurbidExample 4 Al2O3 Fe2O3 C1 ity Final ity, FTUSample A 9.3 3.3 19.7 17 8.2 7.9 16Sample B 8.9 5.5 19.7 24 8.0 7.75 6 2 mos later 8.2 8.0 10 2 mos later 8.2 7.9 4 mos later 8.5 8.05 13Sample C 8.4 13.0 18.0 48 8.2 8.0 10 5 mos later 8.5 8.2 13Example 5Sample D 7.1 8.7 12.8 52 8.5 8.2 19 8.2 8.0 9 Sample F 4.4 8.7 9.7 53 8.5 8.2 24Taki 250AD 9.4 51 8.0 7.9 8 8.0 7.95 13 8.2 8.0 10Liquid Alum 8.3 3.1 8.0 7.7 16 8.0 7.75 18 8.2 7.85 20 56 FTU initial turbidity in water with 8.0 8.5 pH and 90 98 ppm alkalinity as CaCO3. 6.5 ppm dose as alum. Assuming all iron as ferric ion mole Skaneateles Lake water N.Y. used to make 56 F.T.U. initial turbidity as above . Table 3 pH Dependence of Coagulation Data Residual Turbity,Coagulant Final pH F.T.U. Alum 6.50 40 6.56 25 7.18 17 7.68 18 8.27 30PAFC, Sample B 5.30 38 6.30 18 7.17 14 7.76 14 8.03 13 8.68 13 9.37 16PAFC, Sample C 5.37 23 6.32 17 7.25 14 7.90 15 8.20 13 8.82 15 9.37 18Taki PACS 6.00 7.8 6.50 7.6 7.00 8.0 7.50 9.0 8.18 12 9.00 18 F.T.U. is the Formazin Turbidity Unit