# Peptides related to somatostatin, their preparation and pharmaceutical compositions containing them.

## Abstract
Novel tetradecapeptides of the formula

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. a cyclic tetradecapeptide of the formulaEMI51.1 wherein X is H Ala Gly, H Ala D Ala, H D Ala Gly, H D Val Gly, H Ala D Val, H Ala D Ser, or H D Ser Gly Y is Ala or D Ala and Z is Phe, D Phe, or Cha or a non toxic, pharmaceutically acceptable acid addition salt thereof.EMI51.2 or a non toxic, pharmaceutically acceptable acid addition salt thereof. 3. A linear tetradecapeptide of the formula EMI52.1 wherein X is H Ala Gly, H Ala D Ala, H D Ala Gly, H D Val Gly, H Ala D Val, H Ala D S er, or H D Ser Gly Y is Alaor D Ala and Z is Phe, D Phe, or Cha or a non toxic, pharmaceutically acceptable acid addition salt thereof.EMI52.2 or a non toxic pharmaceutically acceptable acid addition salt thereof. 5 A process for the preparation of a cyclic tetradecapeptide of the formulaEMI52.3 wherein X is H Ala Gly, H Ala D Ala, H D Ala Gly, H D Val Gly, H Ala D Val, H Ala D Ser, or H D Ser Gly Y is Ala or D Ala and Z is Phe, D Phe, or Cha or a non toxic, pharmaceutically acceptable acid addition salt thereof, which comprises reacting a linear peptide of the formulaEMI53.1 wherein the various symbols are defined as above, with an oxidizing agent. 6. A process of claim 5 wherein the oxidizing agent is air. 7. A pharmaceutical formulation which comprises as active ingredient a compound of Formula III as defined in claim 1, with a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier. 8. A compound of claim 1 or 2 for use as a pharmaceutical. 9. A compound of claim 1 or 2 for use as a growth hormone inhibiting agent.

## Description
PEPTIDES RELATED TO SOMATOSTATIN This invention relates to synthetic peptides structurally related to somatostatin and to intermediates employed in the synthesis thereof. Somatostatin is the cyclic disulfide tetradecapeptide of the formula EMI1.1 This peptide I has been identified as the somatotropin release inhibiting factor SRIF which is secreted by the hypothalamus and regulates the secretion of pituitary growth hormone GH somatotropin . SeeBrazeau et al., Science, 179, 77 1973 , Burgus et al., Proc. at, Acad. Sci. USA , 70, 684 1973 , andLing et al., Biochemical and Biophysical Res. Communications, 50, 127 1973 . The reduced form of somatostatin is the linear tetradecapeptide of the formula EMI1.2 The reduced form II has been prepared by total synthesis, see Rivier et al., C. R. Acad. Sci.p. Sci. Natur. Paris , 276, 2737 1973 and Sarantakis and McKinley, Biochem. and Biophys. Res. Communications, 54, 234 1973 and it II can be converted to somatostatin I by oxidation whereby a bridging bond is formed between the two sulfhydryls of the two cysteinyl amino acid residues in the tetradecapeptide. Somatostatin inhibits the release of numerous hormones in addition to growth hormone, including those from the pituitary prolactin , the gut gastrin, cholecystokinin, and secretin , and the pancreas insulin and glucagon . Various polypeptides which may be regarded as structural modifications of somatostatin have been prepared synthetically and are reported in the chemical literature. Such polypeptides have certain structural features in common with somatostatin and differ from somatostatin in that specific amino acid residues or functional groups originally present in the somatostatin molecule are either missing or are replaced by other amino acid residues or functional groups. The present invention relates to novel synthetic biologically active polypeptides which may be regarded as structural modifications of somatostatin.The polypeptides of the invention differ from somatostatin in the following respects a The H Alal Gly2 segment is either present or is replaced by H Ala D Ala, H D Ala Gly, H D Val Gly, H Ala D Val, H Ala D Ser, or H D Ser Gly b The Asn5 residue is replaced by Ala or D Ala c The Trp8 residue is replaced by D Trp d The Phell residue is either present or is replaced by D Phe or Cha and e The Cys residue is replaced by D Cys. All optically active amino acids and amino acid residues in the polypeptides depicted and described herein are in the natural or L configuration, unless otherwise noted. The symbols identifying the amino acids and the amino acid residues in the polypeptides described herein are those adopted by the IUPAC IVB Committee on Biochemical Nomenclature Recommendation 1971 , and are described in the Archives of Biochemistry and Biophysics, 150, 1 8 1972 . The following abbreviations, most of which are well known and commonly used in the art, are employed herein Ala Alanine Asn Asparagine Cha Cyclohexylalanine Cys Cysteine Gly Glycine Lys Lysine Phe Phenylalanine Ser Serine The Threonine Trp Tryp top han DCC N,N Dicyclohexylcarbodiimide BOC t Butyloxycarbonyl PMB E Methoxybenzyl CPOC Cyclopentyloxycarbonyl Bzy Benzyl BpOC 2 p biphenylyl isopropyloxycarbonyl This invention relates to novel tetradecapeptides of the formula EMI4.1 wherein X is H Ala Gly, H Ala D Ala, H D Ala Gly, H D Val Gly, H Ala D Val, H Ala D Ser, or H D Ser Gly Y is Ala or D Ala and Z is Phe, D Phe or Cha or a non toxic, pharmaceutically acceptable acid addition salt thereof. The compounds of Formula III are prepared by reacting a corresponding linear compound of the formula EMI4.2 where the symbols are defined as above, with an oxidizing agent. The peptides of Formula III are biologically active and inhibit the secretion of growth hormone, as demonstrated in vivo in rats using standard pharmacological test procedures. Thus, the peptides are especially useful in the treatment of acromegaly and of other pathological conditions e.g. diabetes characterized by the abnormally high secretion of growth hormone. As demonstrated in dogs, certain compounds, moreover, selectively inhibit the secretion of growth hormone i.e. the compounds inhibit growth hormone secretion at a dose which is substantially lower than the dose required to inhibit the secretion of insulin or glucagon. Preferred embodiments of the peptides defined by Formula III are those wherein X is H D Ala Gly orH D Ser Gly. Especially preferred embodiments are those compounds wherein i X is H D Ala Gly Y is D Ala, and Z is Phe i.e. D AlaÚ, D Ala5, D Trp8, D Cys14 Somatostatin ii X is H D Ala Gly Y is D Ala, and Z is Cha i.e. D AlaÚ, D Ala5, D Trp8, chal11. D Cys14 somatostatin iii X is H D Ser Gly Y is Ala, and Z is Phe i.e. D SerÚ, Ala5, D Trp8, D Cys14 Somatostatin iv X is H D Ser Gly Y is Ala, and Z is D Phe i.e. D SerÚ, Ala5, D Trp8, D Pha11, D Chs14 Somatostatin v X is H D Ser Gly Y is Ala and Z is Cha i.e. D SerÚ, Ala5, D Trp8, Cha11, D Chs14 Somatos tatin Compounds i , ii , and iv , then tested in a dog stimulated with L alanine, did not inhibit secretion of insulin or glucagon. The invention also contemplates the linear form IV of the tetradecapeptides of Formula III X Cys Lys Y Phe Phe D Trp Lys Thr Z Thr Ser D Cys Og IV or a non toxic acid addition salt thereof wherein X, Y and Z have the meanings hereinbefore defined with respect to Formula III. The linear peptides defined byFormula IV are precursors in the preparation of the peptides of Formula III. In the cyclic form III , the two cysteine residues Cys3 and D Cys14 are linked by means of a disulfide bond formed between the side chain sulfhydyl functions to form cystine. In the linear form, the two cysteine residues are not linked and the side chain sulfhydyl functions are free. The invention also contemplates the protected peptides of Formula V EMI6.1 wherein X1,is R Ala Gly R Ala D Ala, R D Ala Gly, R D Val Gly, R Ala D Val, R Ala D Ser R4 or R D Ser R4 Gly, wherein R is H or an a amino protecting group yl is Ala ar D Ala Z is Phe, D Phe, or Cha R1 is a sulfhydryl protecting group R2 is an amino protecting group R3 is hydrogen or formyl R4 is a hydroxyl protecting group and W is OH, OCH3, or O CH2 polystyrene resinl and, when R is H, the non toxic pharmaceutically acceptable acid addition salts thereof. The peptides of Formula V are intermediates in the synthesis or the peptides of Formula III and IV. In the synthesis of the peptides of FormulaIII, the peptide chain is built stepwise by the sequential coupling of individual amino acids commencing from the C terminal end of the chain. During each coupling, the amino acids must be protected at the a amino group and, if necessary, at reactive side chain functional groups to prevent the formation of undesirable side products. In the peptides ofFormula V, the protecting groups represented by R, R1,R2, and R4 were employed to block reactive a amino or side chain groups in the individual amino acids during their incorporation into the peptide chain. The protecting groups represented by R, R1, R2, and can, therefore, be any group known in the art to be useful for the stepwise synthesis of polypeptides. Such groups are well known, and the selection of a particular protecting group and its method of use will be readily apparent to a peptide chemist of ordinary skill. Illustrative examples of protecting groups forR, R1, R2 and R4 are set forth below A. The a amino protecting groups contemplated for R are well recognized by those of ordinary skill in the peptide art. Many of these are detailed in the treatise Protective Groups in Organic Chemistry, J.F.W. McOmie, Ed., Plenum Press, N.Y.1973, in Chapter 2, authored by J.W. Barton. For an a amino group present in the N terminal amino acid residue, R may be a acyl type groups, such as formyl, trifluoracetyl, phthalyl, Ertoluenesulfonyl tosyl , benzenesulfonyl, and nitrophenylsulfenyl b aromatic urethane type groups, such as benzyloxycarbonyl and substituted benzyloxycarbonyl, for example chlorobenzyloxycarbonyl, p bromobenzyloxycarbonyl, p nitrobenzyloxycarbonyl, p methoxybenzyloxycarbonyl, o chlorobenzyloxycarbonyl, 2,4 dichlorobenzyloxycarbonyl, and 2, 6 dichlorobenzyloxy carbonyl c aliphatic urethane type groups such as t butyloxycarbonyl, tamyloxycarbonyl, isopropyloxycarbonyl, 2 p biphenylyl isopropyloxycarbonyl, and allyloxycarbonyl d cycloalkyl urethanetype groups such as cyclopentyloxycarbonyl, cyclohexyloxycarbonyl, cycloheptyloxycarbonyl, and adamantyloxycarbonyl e thio urethane type groups such as phenylthiocarbonyl f alkyl type groups such as triphenylmethyl or g trialkylsilane groups, such as trimethylsilane. The preferred a amino protecting group defined by R is t butyloxycarbonyl BOC . B. For the sulfhydryl group present in cysteine, RÚ may be benzyl nd sub stituted benzyl e.g. 3,4 dimethyl benzyl, p methoxybenzyl, p methylbenzyl, p chlorobenzyl, p nitrobenzyl , trityl, benzyloxycarbonyl, benzhydryl, p methoxy benzyloxycarbonyl, benzylthiomethyl, ethylcarbamoyl, thioethyl, tetrahydro pyranyl, acetamidomethyl, and benzoyl. For additional groups, see, for example, Houben Weyl, Methodes der Organischen Chemie, Synthese von Peptiden , Vols. 15 1 and 15 2, 1974 , Stuttgart, Germany. The preferred sulfhydryl protecting group defined by R1 is methoxybenzyl MBzl . C. For the c amino protecting group present in lysine, Rê may be one of the groups mentioned hereinabove for the protection of an a amino group. Typical groups include for example, benzyloxycarbonyl, p chloroben.zyloxycarbonyl , bromo benzyloxycarbonyl, o chlorobenzyloxy carbonyl, 2,6 dichlorobenzyloxycarbonyl, 2,4 dichlorobenzyloxycarbonyl, o bromo benzyloxycarbonyl, p nitrobenzyloxy carbonyl t butyloxycarbonyl, isopropyl oxycarbonyl i t amyloxycarbonyl, cyclo pentyloxycarbonyl, cyclohexyloxycar bonyl, cycloheptyloxycarbonyl, adamantyl oxycarbonyl, and p toluenesulfonyl. The preferred amino protecting group defined by R2 is o chlorobenzyloxy carbonyl ClBzl . D. For the hydroxyl group of serine or threonine, R4 may be C1 C4 alkyl e.g. methyl, ethyl, t butyl , benzyl, sub stituted benzyl e.g. E methoxybenzyl, p nitrobenzyl, p chlorobenzyl, o chlorobenzyl , C1 C3 alkanoyl e.g. formyl, acetyl, propionyl , triphenyl methyl, or benzoyl. The preferred hydroxyl protecting group defined by R4 is benzyl Bzl . The group R3 represents either hydrogen or formyl substituted on the nitrogen of the indole ring of tryptophan. The use of formyl as a protecting 3.group is optional. R3 is preferably hydrogen. In Formula V, when W represents O CH2 polystyrene resin the peptide chain is attached to the polystyrene resin by means of. an ester linkage, D Cys O CH2 formed between the carboxyl group of theC terminal D cysteine moiety and one of the methylene groups present on the resin matrix as sites for such attachment. The polystyrene resin is a styrene polymer which is cross linked by the addition of about 0.5 to about 3 divinylbenzene and which is chloromethylated or hydroxymethylated to provide sites for ester formation. An example of a hydroxymethylated resin is described by Bodanszky et al. Chem. Ind. London 38, 1597 98 1966 . A chloromethylated polystyrene resin is commercially available from LabSystem, Inc., San Mateo, California. The resin is also described by Stewart et al. Solid Phase PeptideSynthesis, Freeman and Co., San Francisco, California, pp 1 6. The tetradecapeptides of Formula III can be made either by classical solution methods or by the solid phase method using techniques generally known in the art for forming peptide bonds. The peptide can be assembled either by coupling each amino acid separately or by coupling appropriate pre formed peptide segments in the desired order. The preferred method of preparation of the peptides of Formula III, and of the intermediates ofFormula IV and V is by the solid phase technique in which the amino acid sequence is built sequentially from an initial, insoluble resin supported C terminal amino acid. Techniques for the solid phase method are described by J. Stewart et al., Solid Phase PeptideSynthesis, Freeman and Co., San Francisco, 1969. In general, in the solid phase method, the amino acid corresponding to the C terminal amino acid residue of the desired peptide is anchored to an insoluble resin support, and the peptide chain is then formed beginning at the resin supported C terminal amino acid by introducing the individual amino acids one at a time until the desired amino acid sequence is achieved. Alternatively, small peptide fragements can be prepared and introduced into the peptide chain in the desired order. The peptide chain remains attached to the resin throughout the synthesis, and, upon completion of the chain, the peptide is cleaved from the resin. The amino acids are coupled using techniques well known in the art for the formation of a peptide bond. One method is to convert the amino acid to a derivative that will render the carboxyl group more reactive to reaction with the free N terminal amino group of the peptide fragment. For example, the amino acid can be converted to a mixed anhydride by reaction of a protected amino acid with ethyl chloroformate, phenyl chloroformate, sec butyl chloroformate, isobutylchloroformate, pivaloyl chloride, or like acid chlorides. Alternatively, the amino acid can be converted to an active ester such as a 2,4,5 trichlorophenyl ester, a pentachlorophenyl ester, a p nitro phenyl ester, an ester formed from N hydroxysuccinimide, or an ester formed from 1 hydroxybenzotriazole. Another method is to perform the coupling reaction with a suitable coupling agent, such as N,N dicyclohexylcarbodimide DCC or N,N diisopropylcarbodiimide DIC . Other appropriate coupling agents will be apparent to those skilled in the art. SeeSchroder and Lubke, The Peptides, Academic Press, 1965, Chapter III. It should be recognized that the amino group of each amino acid employed in the peptide synthesis must be protected during the coupling reaction to prevent side reactions involving the reactive a amino function.It should also be recognized that certain amino acids contain reactive side chain functional groups e.g. sulfhydryl, amino, and hydroxyl , and such functional groups must also be protected both during the initial coupling of the amino acid containing the side chain group and during the coupling of subsequent amino acids. In selecting a particular protecting group the following conditions must be observed An a amino protecting group must 1 be stable and render the a amino function inert under the conditions employed in the coupling reaction, and 2 must be readily removable after the coupling reaction under conditions that will not remove the side chain protecting groups or alter the structure of the peptide fragment. A side chain protecting group must 1 be stable and render the side chain functional group inert under the conditions employed in the coupling reaction, 2 be stable under the conditions employed in removing the a amino protecting group, and 3 be readily removable upon completion of the desired amino acid sequence under reaction conditions that will not alter the structure of the peptide chain. It will be apparent to those skilled in the art that the protecting groups known in the art to be useful for peptide synthesis will vary in their relativity towards the acidic agents employed for their removal. For example, certain protecting groups, such as triphenylmethyl and 2 E biphenylyl isopropyloxycarbonyl are very labile and can be cleaved under mild acid conditions. Other protecting groups, such as t butyloxycarbonyl, t amyloxycarbonyl, adamantyloxycarbonyl, and p methoxybenzyloxycarbonyl are less labile and require moderately stong acids such as trifluoroacetic, hydrochloric, or borontrifluoride in acetic acid for their removal.Still other protecting groups, such as benzyloxycarbonyl, halobenzyloxycarbonyl, p nitrobenzyloxycarbonyl, cycloalkoxycarbonyl, and isopropyloxycarbonyl, are even less labile and require strong acids, such as hydrogen fluoride, hydrogen bromide, boron trifluoroacetate in trifluoroacetic acid for their removal. Upon completion of the desired peptide sequence, the protected peptide must be cleaved from the resin support, and all protecting groups must be removed. The cleavage reaction and removal of the protecting groups may be accomplished simultaneously or stepwise. When the resin support is a chloromethylated polystyrene resin, the bond anchoring the peptide to the resin is an ester linkage formed between the free carboxyl group of the C terminal cysteine moiety and one of the many chloromethyl groups present on the resin matrix. It will be recognized that the anchoring bond can be cleaved by reagents which are known to be capable of breaking an ester linkage and of penetrating the resin matrix. One especially convenient method is by treatment with liquid hydrogen fluoride. This reagent will not only cleave the peptide from the resin but will also remove all protecting groups.Hence, use of this reagent will directly afford the fully deprotected linear form of the peptide. When it is desired to cleave the peptide without removing protecting groups, the protected peptide resin can undergo methanolysis to give the protected linear peptide in which the C terminal carboxyl group is methylated. The methyl ester can then be hydrolyzed under mild, alkaline conditions to give the free C terminal carboxyl. The protecting groups on the peptide chain can then be removed by treatment with a strong acid, such as liquid hydrogen fluoride. A particularly useful technique for methanolysis is that of G. Moore et al., Peptides,Proc. 5th Amer. Pept. Symp., M. Goodman and J. Meinhofer,Eds., John Wiley, N.Y., 1977, pp. 518 521 in which the protected peptide resin is treated with methanol and potassium cyanide in the presence of crown ether. Another method for cleaving the protected peptide from the resin is by ammonolysis or by treatment with hydrazine. The resulting C terminal amide or hydrazide can be hydrolyzed to the free C terminal carboxyl, and the protecting groups can be removed conventionally. It will also be recognized that the protecting group present on the N terminal a amino group may be removed preferentially either before or after the protected peptide is cleaved from the resin support. Upon cleavage from the resin and the removal of all protecting groups, the product obtained is in the form of the linear tetradecapeptide, Formula IV.The linear tetradecapeptide can be cyclized to the final cyclic tetradecapeptide III by means of an oxidizing agent capable of converting the two sulfhydyl groups of Cys3 and D Cys14 to the do sulfide bond. Both exposure to air or treatment with potassium ferricyanide may be used to effect such oxidation. When air is employed, the pH of the medium should be about 2.5 to about 9.0 and preferably about 7.0 to 7.6 and the concentration of the peptide should not be above 0.4 mg ml. A concentration of about 50 vg ml is preferred. For pharmacological purposes, the peptides ofFormula III can be administered in the form of an acid addition salt prepared by reaction with an appropriate organic or inorganic acid which is non toxic and acceptable for pharmaceutical purposes. Suitable acids are well known in the art. Illustrative of such acids are hydrochloric, hydrobromic, sulfuric, sulfonic, tartaric, fumaric, glycolic, succinic, malonic, citric, maleic, acetic, phosphoric, benzoic, ascorbic, nitric, p toluenesulfonic, benzenesulfonic, naphthalenesulfonic, propionic, and the like. Acetic acid is preferred. The preferred method for the solid phase synthesis of the peptides of Formula III and the intermediates thereto, is illustrated by the Examples. In this method, amino and sulfhydyl protected Dcysteine BOC D Cys MBzl OH is first attached to chloromethylated polystyrene resin according to the method of B. Gisin Helv. Chim. Acta., 56, 1476 1173 wherein the cesium salt of the protected D cysteine is reacted with the chloromethylated polystyrene resin in dimethylformamide. The t butyloxycarbonyl protecting group is then removed by treatment with trifluoroacetic acid in chloroform methylene chloride. Individual protected amino acids are then coupled sequentially beginning at the resin supported C terminal D cysteine until the desired tetradecapeptide is achieved. Throughout the synthesis, N N dicyclohexylcarbodiimide is used as the coupling agent, and t butyloxycarbonyl BOC is used as the amino protecting group.The side chain protecting groups are p methoxybenzyl MBzl for the sulfhydyl group of cysteine o chlorobenzyloxycarbonyl Clz for the amino of lysine and benzyl Bzl for the hydroxyl of serine and threonine.Trifluoroacetic acid in methylenechloride is employed to remove preferentially the t butyloxycarbonyl protecting group. After each deprotection, the side chain protected peptide is neutralized with triethylamine. Upon completion of the desired amino acid sequence, the resulting tetradecapeptide is deprotected and removed from the polystyrene resin by treatment with liquid hydrogen fluoride in the presence of anisole and ethylmercaptan. The resulting linear tetradecapeptide is readily converted to the cyclic tetradecapeptide III by exposure of a solution of the linear tetradecapeptide V to atmospheric oxygen. The cyclic tetradecapeptide is purified by chomotography. For pharmacological use, the tetradecapeptides of Formula III may be administered alone on in combination with pharmaceutically acceptable carriers or excipients. Suitable pharmaceutical carriers will be apparent to those skilled in the art. Administration may be orally or parenterally by methods conventional in the art of medicine. The method of making and using the peptides of the invention are illustrated in the followingExamples. In the following examples the following symbols are used conc. concentrated t BuOH t butyl alcohol t AmOH t amyl alcohol DMF dimethylformamide STARTING MATERIALS Example A N t Butyloxycarbonyl D S p methoxybenzyl cysteine hydroxymethyl polvstyrene resin ester Chloromethylated polystryene resin is esterified by the method of F. Gisin Helv. Chim. Acta.56, 1976 1973 . A solution of the cesium salt of t butyl oxycarbonyl D S p methoxybenzyl cysteine 24.95 mmoles in DMF 500 ml. is stirred with chloromethylated polystyrene resin Lab Systems, Inc. 50 g. 0.75 mmole Cl g. at room temperature for four days. The resin is separated by filtration and washed with 85 DMF 15 water and then with DMF alone. This wash sequence is repeated two additional times. After two more washings with DMF, the resin is suspended in DMF 500 ml. , and the suspension is stirred with cesium acetate 8 g. 41.7 mmole at room temperature for three days. The resin is separated by filtration and washed with 85 DMF 15 water and with DMF alone.This sequence is repeated two additional times. The resin is finally washed with chloroform and is suspended in chloroform contained in a separatory funnel. Fines are removed by drawing off liquid. This separation is repeated three additional times. The resin is collected by filtration and washed successively with 95 ethanol, benzene, and 95 ethanol. The latter two washes are repeated two additional times. The resin is dried overnight in vacuo at 400C. to give 58.1 g. of the title product. A portion of the resin is assayed for cysteine after hydrolysis using a 1 1 mixture of conc.hydrochloric acid dioxane in the presence of a small amount of dimethylsulfoxide.Found 0.237 mmole cysteine per g. of resin. Example BN t Butyloxycarbonyl D alanyl glycyl L S p methoxy benzyl cysteinyl L N o chlorobenzyloxycarbonyl lysylD alanyl L phenylalanyl L phenylalanyl D tryptophyl L Ng o chlorobenzyloxycarbonyl lysyl L O benzyl threonyl L phenylalanyl L O benzyl threonyl L O benzyl seryl D S p methoxybenzyl cysteine hydroxymethyl polystyrene resin ester N t Butyloxycarbonyl D S p methoxybenzyl cysteine hydroxymethyl polystyrene resin ester 7.0 g. , as prepared in Example A, is placed in the reaction chamber of a Beckman 990 peptide synthesizer and is treated according to Schedule A set forth below , N t butyloxycarbonyl L O benzyl serine being employed as the amino acid added in Step 11 thereof.After the final methylene chloride wash Step 18 , the product is washed three times with dimethylformamide DMF and is re coupled by following Step 11 of Schedule A. The product is then washed three times with DMF and is retreated by following Steps 12 18 of Schedule A. In a similar manner, the following protected amino acids are incorporated sequentially into the peptide resin N t butyloxycarbonyl L O benzyl threonine N t butyloxycarbonyl L phenylalanine N t butyloxycarbonyl L O benzyl threonine N t butyloxycarbonyl L N o chlorobenzyloxy carbonyl lysine N t butyloxycarbonyl D tryptophane N t butyloxycarbonyl L phenylalanine N t butyloxycarbonyl L phenylalanine N t butyloxycarbonyl D alanine N t butyloxycarbonyl L N o chlorobenzyloxy carbonyl lysine N t butyloxycarbonyl L S E methoxybenzyl cysteine N t butyloxycarbonyl glycine N t butyloxycarbonyl D alanine Steps 10 18 of Schedule A are not repeated during the incorporation of BOC Ala. After incorporation of the N terminal amino acid residue D alanine , the peptide resin is dried in vacuo. An amino acid analysis obtained by refluxing a portion of the peptide for 72 hours in conc.hydrochloric acid dioxane, 1 1 gives the following results, lysine being employed as the standard 2 Thr, 2.24 Ser, 1.01 Gly, 1.01 2 Ala, 2.10 3 Phe, 2.97 2 Lys, 2.00. SCHEDULE A Protocol for the removal of the tbutyloxycarbonyl a amino protecting group and the coupling of the amino acid to the peptide resin 1. Wash with CHCI3, three times. 2. To remove the t butyloxycarbonyl a amino protecting group, treat with a mixture of trifluoroacetic acid 28.8 , CH2C12 17.5 , 47.9 CHC13, and triethylsilane 5.88 for twenty minutes. Repeat one time. 3. Wash with CHCl3 two times. 4. Wash with CH2C12, one time. 5. Wash with 90 t BuOH l0 t AmOH, three times. 6. Wash with CH2C12, three times. 7. For neutralization, treat with 3 triethylamine in CH2C12, three times. 8. Wash with CR2,Cl2, three times. 9. Wash with 90 t BuOH 10 t AmOH, three times. 10. Wash with CH2C12, three times. 11. To couple the amino acid, treat with the protected amino acid 1.0 mmole g. resin and N,N dicyclohexylcarbodiimide 1.0 mmole . resin inCH2Cl2. Allow two hour reaction time. 12. Wash with CH2C12, three times. 13. Wash with 90 t BuOH 10 t AmOH. 14. Wash with CH2C12, three times. 15. For neutralization, treat with 3 triethylamine in CH2Cl2, three times. 16. Wash with CH2C12, three times. 17. Wash with 90 t BuOH 10 t AmOH, three times. 18. Wash with CH2C12, three times. The volume of solvent employed for each step is eight ml. g. of resin. Unless otherwise noted, the contact time for each step is three minutes. Example CN t Butyloxycarbonyl D alanyl glycyl L S p methoxybenzyl cysteinyl L Ni o chlorobenzyloxy carbonyl lysyl D alanyl L phenylalanyl L phenyl alanyl D tryptophyl L N o chlorobenzyloxycarbonyl lysyl L O benzyl threonyl L cyclohexylalanyl L O benzyl threonyl L O benzyl seryl D S ErmethOxy benzyl cysteine hydroxymethylpolystyrene resin ester N t Butyloxycarbonyl D S p methoxybenzyl cysteine hydroxymethyl polystyrene resin ester 7.0 g. , as prepared in Example A, is placed in the reaction chamber of a Beckman 990 peptide synthesizer and is treated according to Schedule A set forth in Example B ,N t butyloxycarbonyl L O benzyl serine being employed as the amino acid added in Step 11 thereof.After the final methylene chloride wash Step 18 , the product is washed three times with DMF and is re coupled by following Step 11 of Schedule A. The product is then washed three times with DMF and is retreated by following Steps 12 18 of Schedule A. In a similar manner, the following protected amino acids are incorporated sequentially into the peptide resin N t butyloxycarbonyl L O benzyl threonine N t butyloxycarbonyl L cyclohexylalanine N t butyloxycarbonyl L O benzyl threonine N t butyloxycarbonyl L N o chlorobenzyloxycarbonyl lysine N t butyloxycarbonyl D tryptophane N t butyloxycarbonyl L phenylalanine N t butyloxycarbonyl L phenylalanine N t butyloxycarbonyl D alanine N t butyloxycarbonyl L N o chlorobenzyloxy carbonyl lysine N t butyloxycarbonyl L s p methoxybenzyl cysteine N t butyloxycarbonyl glycine N t butyloxycarbonyl D alanine After introduction of BOC Phe at position 6, the peptide resin is divided into two equal portions andBOC D Ala and the remaining amino acid residues are introduced using only one portion. Steps 10 18 of Schedule A are not repeated during the incorporation of BOC Ala. After incorporation of the N terminal amino acid residue D alanine , the peptide resin is dried in vacuo. An amino acid analysis obtained by refluxing a portion of the peptide for 72 hours in conc.hydrochloric acid dioxane, 1 1 gives the following results, lysine being employed as the standard 2 Thr, 2.26 Ser, 1.03 Gly, 1.04 2 Ala, 2.18 2 Phe, 2.14 2 Lys, 2.00 Cha, 1.14. Example D N t Butyloxycarbonyl D seryl glycyl L tS 2rmethOxy benzyl cysteinyl L N o chlorobenzyloxycarbonyl lysyl L alanyl L phenylalanyl L phenylalanyl D tryptophyl L N o chlorobenzyloxycarbonyl lysyl L O benzyl threonyl L phenylalanyl L O benzyl threonyl L O benzyl seryl D S methoxybenzyl cysteine hydroxymethylpolystyrene resin ester N t Butyloxycarbonyl D S p methoxybenzyl cysteine hydroxymethyl polystyrene resin ester 5.5 g. , as prepared in Example A, is placed in the reaction chamber of a Beckman 990 peptide synthesizer and is treated according to Schedule A set forth inExample B , N t butyloxycarbonyl L O benzyl serine being employed as the amino acid added in Step 11 thereof.After the final methylene chloride wash Step 18 , the product is washed three times with DMF and is re coupled by following Step 11 of Schedule A. The product is then washed three times with DMF and is retreated by following Steps 12 18 of Schedule A. In a similar manner, the following protected amino acids are incorporated sequentially into the peptide resin N t butyloxycarbonyl L O benzyl threonine N t butyloxycarbonyl L phenylalanine N t butyloxycarbonyl L O benzyl threnoine N t butyloxycarbonyl L N o chlorobenzyloxy carbonyl lysine N t butyloxycarbonyl D tryptophane N t butyloxycarbonyl L phenylalanine N t butyloxycarbonyl L phenylalanine N t butyloxycarbonyl L alanine N t butyloxycarbonyl L NE o chlorobenzyloxy carbonyl lysine N t butyloxyzarbonyl L S p methoxybenzyl cysteine N t butyloxycarbonyl glycine N t butyloxycarbonyl D serine Steps 10 18 of Schedule A are not repeated during the incorporation of BOC Ala. After incorporation of the N terminal amino acid residue D valine , the peptide resin is dried in vacuo. An amino acid analysis obtained by ref fluxing a portion of the peptide for 72 hours in conc. hydrochloric acid dioxane, 1 1 gives the following results, lysine being employed as the standard 2 Thr, 1.80 2 Ser, 1.52 Gly, 1.02 Ala, 1.07 3 Phe, 2.88 2 Lys, 2.00. Example E N t Butyloxycarbonyl D seryl glycyl L S E methOxy benzyl cysteinyl L Nt o chlorobenzyloxycarbonyl lySyl L alanyl L phenylalanyl L phenylalanyl D tryptophyl L CN o chlorobenzyloxycarbonyl lysyl L O benzyl threonyl D phenylalanyl L O benzyl threonyl L O benzyl seryl D CS E methoxybenzyl cysteine hydroxymethylpolystyrene resin ester N t Butyloxycarbonyl D S E methoxybenzy cysteine hydroxymethyl polystyrene resin ester 3.5 g. , as prepared in Example A, is placed in the reaction chamber of a Beckman 990 peptide synthesizer and is treated according to Schedule A set forth inExample B , N t butyloxycarbonyl L O benzyl serine being employed as the amino acid added in Step 11 thereof.After the final methylene chloride wash Step 18 , the product is washed three times withDMF and is re coupled by following Step 11 of ScheduleA. The product is then washed three times with DMF and is retreated by following Steps 12 18 of Schedule A. In a similar manner, the following protected amino acids are incorporated sequentially into the peptide resin N t butyloxycarbonyl L O benzyl threonine N t butyloxycarbonyl D phenylalanine N t butyloxycarbonyl L O benzyl threonine N t butyloxycarbonyl L N o chlorobenzyloxy carbonyl lysine N t butyloxycarbonyl D tryptophane N t butyloxycarbonyl L phenylalanine N t butyloxycarbonyl L phenylalanine N t butyloxycarbonyl L alanine N t butyloxycarbonyl L N o chlorobenzyloxy carbonyl lysine N t butyloxycarbonyl L S p methoxybenzyl cysteine N t butyloxycarbonyl glycine N t butyloxycarbonyl D serine Steps 10 18 of Schedule A are not repeated during the incorporation of BOC Ala. After incorporation of the N terminal amino acid residue D valine , the peptide resin is dried in vacuo. An amino acid analysis obtained by refluxing a portion of the peptide for 72 hours in conic. hydrochloric acid dioxane, 1 1 gives the following results, lysine being employed as the standard 2 Thr, 2.00 2 Ser, 1.72 Gly, 1.25 Ala, 1.09 3 Phe, 2.97 2 Lys, 2.00. Example F N t Butyloxycarbonyl D seryl glycyl L S E methOxy benzyl cysteinyl L N o chlorobenzyloxycarbonyl lysyl L alanyl L phenylalanyl L phenylalanyl D tryptophyl L N o chlorobenzyloxycarbonyl lysyl L O benzyl threonyl L cyclohexylalanyl L O benzyl threonyl L O benzyl seryl D S p methoxybenzyl cysteine hydroxymethylpolystyrene resin ester N t Butyloxycarbonyl D S p methoxybenzyl cysteine hydroxymethyl polystyrene resin ester 7.0 g. , as prepared in Example A, is placed in the reaction chamber of a Beckman 990 peptide synthesizer and is treated according to Schedule A set forth in ExampleB , N t butyloxycarbonyl L O benzyl serine being employed as the amino acid added in Step 11 thereof.After the final methylene chloride wash Step 18 , the product is washed three times with dimethylformamide DMF and is re coupled by following Step 11 ofSchedule A. The product is then washed three times with DMF and is retreated by following Steps 12 18 ofSchedule A. In a similar manner, the following protected amino acids are incorporated sequentially into the peptide resin N t butyloxycarbonyl L O benzyl threonine N t butyloxycarbonyl L cyclohexylalanine N t butyloxycarbonyl L O benzyl thre,onine N t butyloxycarbonyl L N o chlorobenzyloxy carbonyl lysine N t butyloxycarbonyl D tryptophane N t butyloxycarbony L phenylalanine N t butyloxycarbonyl L phenylalanine N t butyloxycarbonyl L alanine N t butyloxycarbonyl L N o chlorobenzyloxy carbonyl lysine N t butyloxycarbonyl L S p methoxybenzyl cysteine N t butyloxycarbonyl glycine N t butyloxycarbonyl D serine After introduction of BOC Phe at position 6, the peptide resin is divided into two equal portions, and BOC D Ala and the remaining amino acid residues are introduced using only one portion. Steps 10 18 of Schedule A are not repeated during the incorporation of BOC Ala. After incorporation of the N terminal amino acid residue D serine , the peptide resin is dried in vacuo. An amino acid analysis obtained by ref fluxing a portion of the peptide for 72 hours in conc. hydrochloric acid dioxane, 1 1 gives the following results, lysine being employed as the standard 2 Thr, 2.32 2 Ser, 2.48 Gly, 1.45 Ala, 1.26 2 Phe, 2.06 2 Lys, 2.00 Cha, 1.23. FINAL PRODUCTS Example 1D Alanyl glycyl L cysteinyl L lysyl D alanyl Lphenylalanyl L phenylalanyl D tryptophyl L lysyl L threonyl L phenylalanyl L threonyl L seryl D cysteine. The protected peptido resin prepared inExample B 5.58 g., at a substitution level of 0.178 mmole g. resin is mixed with anisole 10.2 ml. and ethyl mercaptan 10.2 ml . The mixture is cooled with liquid nitrogen and liquid hydrogen fluoride 145 ml. is added by distillation. The mixture is then brought to OOC. and is stirred for two hours. Removal of hydrogen fluoride by distillation gives a residue to which is added ether at 00C. The solid is collected, washed with ether, and dried. The peptide is separated from the resin by extracting the solid with 0.2M acetic acid and 50 acetic acid. The extract is filtered through glass fiber filter paper to remove suspended insoluble material.The filtrate is chromatographed through a Sephadex G 25 Fine column under the following conditions solvent degassed 0.2M acetic acid column size 7.5 X 225 cm temperature 260C flow rate 1317 ml hour fraction volume 22.0 ml. A 6637 ml. sample is collected in large flasks and discarded before individual fractions are collected. A plot of absorbance at 280 mp of each fraction versus fraction number shows a large peak with a front side shoulder. W spectrographic analysis indicates that the fractions represented by the broad peak contain the desired product. Hence, fractions 52 85 7754 8502 ml, peak 8229 ml are combined. W spectrographic analysis of a sample of the combined fractions indicates that 514 mg. of the product is obtained. Free sulfhydryl content 98.0 of theoretical by Ellman titration Example 2 D Alanol glycyl L cysteinyl L lysyl D alanyl L phenylalanyl L phenylalanyl D tryptophyl L lySyl L threonyl L phenylalanyl L threonyl L seryl D cssteine cyclic 3 14 disulfide. The linear peptide prepared in Example 1 is air oxidized to the corresponding cyclic peptide by the following procedure The combined fractions obtained in Example 1 748 ml, theoretically containing 514 mg. of peptide are diluted with.9532 ml of distilled water to achieve a final solution having a concentration of 50 pg ml. Sufficient concentrated ammonium hydroxide is added to bring the pH to 6.7. The solution is then stirred at room temperature in the dark for 19 hours at which time Ellman titration of an aliquot indicates complete oxidation. The solution is concentrated in vacuo to a volume of about 110 ml. Glacial acetic acid 110 ml is added and the solution is desalted by chomatography on a Sephadex G 25 Fine Column under the following conditions solvent degassed 508 acetic acid column size 7.5 X 210 cm temperature 260C flow rate 1038 ml hour fraction volume 22.5 ml . A plot of absorbance at 280 mp of each fraction versus fraction number shows two large peaks.The first represents the aggregated forms of the peptide, while the second represents monomeric material.Fractions 64 103 4320 5220 ml. are combined and lyophilized to dryness in the dark. The solids are dissolved in 36 ml. of water, and the solution is buffered by addition of 2 ml of 1M ammonium formateformic acid, pH 4.25. The solution is applied to a glass column, 60 cm in length, packed with 1540 ml of reverse phase silica gel ca 20 lm, C18, 16.3 C , pre equilibrated with 28 acetonitrile in 0.5M ammonium formate, formic acid, pH 4.25. The column is eluted with the same solvent, and the fractions eluting between 2740 ml. and 3230 ml are combined. The pooled sample contains 193.5 mg of peptide as determined byW spectra. The pool showed a ratio, absorbance at 281 nm absorbance at 249 nm, of 2.01. The pooled sample is diluted 1 10 with distilled water, and pumped over a column 2.5 X 26 cm packed with amberlite XAD 2 resin Rohm and Haas Co. .The column is then washed with 250 ml of water, and finally the sample is eluted from the resin with 50 acetonitrile, 1 acetic acid in distilled water. A pool of 103 ml is collected on the basis of W spectral monitoring of the eluant stream. It contains ca 197 mg of peptide, with a ratio 281 249 lsm of 2.02.The solution is lyophilized and the resulting solid collected. Gross weight 204.5 mg, of which 176.5 mg is peptide on the basis of W spectral analysis.Amino acid analysis Gly, 1.01 Cys, 2.35 Lys, 2.0 Ala, 2.08 Phe, 2.97 Thr, 2.00 Ser, 0.89. The above results are expressed as ratios to Lys 2. All values are the average of 2 hydrolyses, with no added scavengers. The value for D Trp was not determined. Example 3D Alanyl glycyl L cysteinyl L lysyl D alanyl Lphenylalanyl L phenylalanyl D tryptophyl L lysyl Lthreonyl L cyclohexylalanyl L threonyl L seryl Dcysteine. The protected peptido resin prepared inExample C 5.53 g., at a substitution level of 0.176 mmole g. resin is mixed with anisole 10.1 ml. and ethyl mercaptan 10.1 ml . The mixture is cooled with liquid nitrogen and liquid hydrogen fluoride 126 ml. is added by distillation. The mixture is then brought to 0 C. and is stirred for two hours. Removal of hydrogen fluoride by distillation gives a residue to which is added ether at OOC. The solid is collected, washed with ether, and dried. The peptide is separated from the resin by extracting the solid with IM acetic acid and 50 acetic acid. The extract is lyophilized in the dark to dryness. Acetic acid 0.2M, 300 ml is added to the dry material, and the suspension is warmed to effect solution.The solution is chromatographed through a Sephadex G 25 Fine column under the following conditions isolvent degassed 0.2M acetic acid column size 10 X 210 cm temperature 260C flow rate 2572 ml hour fraction volume 64.3 ml. A 11,776 ml. sample is collected in large flasks and discarded before individual fractions are collected. A plot of absorbance at 280 mp of each fraction versus fraction number shows a broad peak with a back side shoulder. W spectrographic analysis indicates that the fractions represented by the broad peak contain the desired product. Hence, fractions 19 45 12i923 14,673 ml, peak 13,798 ml are combined. UV spectrographic analysis of a sample of the combined fractions indicates that 702 mg. of the product is obtained. Recovery 45.0 . Free sulfhydryl content 96.1 of theoretical by Ellman titration Example 4 D Alanyl glycyl L cysteinyl L lysyl D alanyl L phenylalanyl L phenylalanyl D tryptophyl L lySyl L threonyl L cyclohexylalanyl L threonyl L seryl Dcysteine cyclic 3 14 disulfide. The linear peptide prepared in Example 3 is air oxidized to the corresponding cyclic peptide by the following procedure The combined fractions obtained in Example 3 1750 ml, theoretically containing 702 mg. of peptide are diluted with 12,290 ml of distilled water to achieve a final solution having a concentration of 50 vg ml. Sufficient concentrated ammonium hydroxide is added to bring the pH to 6.7. The solution is then stirred at room temperature in the dark for 41 hours at which time Ellman titration of an aliquot indicates complete oxidation. The solution is concentrated in vacuo to a volume of about 80 ml. Glacial acetic acid 100 ml is added and the solution is desalted by chomatography on a Sephadex G 25 Fine Column under the following conditions solvent degassed 50 acetic acid column size 7.5 X 211 cm temperature 260C flow rate 113 ml hour fraction volume 19.8 ml. A 2975 ml sample is collected in large flasks and discarded before individual fractions are collected. A plot ot absorbance at 280 mp of each fraction versus fraction number shows two large peaks.The first represents, the aggregated forms of the peptide, while the second represents monomeric material.Fractions 109 128 4988 5362 ml. are combined and lyophilized to dryness in the dark. The resulting solid is dissolved in degassed 0.2M acetic acid 25 ml. and the solution is chromatographed on a SephadexG 25 Fine column under the following conditions solvent degassed 0.2M acetic acid column size 5 X 215 cm temperature 260C flow rate 800 ml hour fraction volume 14.65 ml. A 2303 ml sample is collected in a large flask and discarded before individual fractions are collected. A plot of absorbance at 280 mu of each fraction versus fraction number shows a single peak.W spectrographic analysis indicates that the fractions represented by the main part of this peak comprise the desired product. Fractions 85 106 3530 3854 mli peak, 3667 ml are combined and lyophilized in the dark to give the title peptide. W spectrographic analysis of the combined fractions before lyophilization indicated that 236.5 mg. of the product is obtained.Recovery, 33.7 from the linear form . Amino acid analysis Gly, 1.01 Cys, 2.05 Lys, 2.0 Ala, 2.15 Phe, 2.19 Thr, 2.14 Ser, 0.85. The above results are expressed as ratios toLys 2. All values are the average of 2 hydrolyses, with no added scavengers. The value for D Trp was not determined. The peak for Cha overlapped the NH3 peak in the amino acid analysis, so Cha was not determined. Example 5D Seryl glycyl L cysteinyl L lysyl L alanyl L phenylalanyl L phenylalanyl D tryptophyl L ly syl L threonyl L phenylalanyl L threonyl L seryl D cysteine. The protected peptido resin prepared inExample D 6.029 g., at a substitution level of 0.162 mmole g. resin is mixed with anisole 11 ml. and ethyl mercaptan 11 ml . The mixture is cooled with liquid nitrogen and liquid hydrogen fluoride 150 ml. is added by distillation. The mixture is then brought to OOC. and is stirred for 1.5 hours.Removal of hydrogen fluoride by distillation gives a residue to which is added ether at OOC. The solid is collected, washed with ether, and dried. The peptide is separated from the resin by extracting the solid with 1M acetic acid and 50 acetic acid. The extract is lyophilized in the dark to dryness. A mixture of 0.2M acetic acid 10 ml and glacial acetic acid 4 ml is added to the dry material, and the suspension is warmed to effect solution. Upon cooling, a small amount of precipitate separates. This is not removed by filtration. The sample is chromatographed through a Sephadex G 25 Fine column under the following conditions solvent degassed 0.2M acetic acid column size 7.5 X 150 cm temperature 260C flow rate 1644 ml hour fraction volume 24.67 ml. A plot of absorbance at 280 mu of each fraction versus fraction number shows a broad peak with a back side shoulder. W spectrographic analysis indicates that the fractions represented by the broad peak contain the desired product. Hence, fractions 205 230 5081 5755 ml, peak 5506 ml are combined. W spectrographic analysis of a sample of the combined fractions indicates that 524 mg. of the product is obtained. Free sulfhydryl content 91.1 of theoretical by Ellman titration Example 6D Seryl glycyl L cysteinyl L lysyl L alanyl L phenyl alanyl L phenylalanyl D tryptophyl L lysyl L threonyl L phenylalanyl L threonyl L seryl D cysteine cyclic 3 14 disulfide. The linear peptide prepared in Example 5 is air oxidized to the corresponding. cyclic peptide by the following procedure A sample of the combined fractions obtained in Example 5, theoretically containing about 260 mg.of peptide, are diluted with distilled water to achieve a final solution having a concentration of 50 pg ml. Sufficient concentrated ammonium hydroxide is added to bring the pH to 6.7. The solution is then stirred at room temperature in the dark for 41 hours at which time Ellman titration of an aliquot indicates complete oxidation. The solution is cdncentrated in vacuo to a small volume. Glacial acetic acid to 31 ml is added and the solution is desalted by chomatography on aSephadex G 25 Fine Column under the following conditions solvent degassed 50 acetic acid column size 5.0 X 215 cm temperature 260C flow rate 243 ml hour fraction volume 21.6 ml. A plot of absorbance at 280 mp of each fraction versus fraction number shows several large overlapping peaks. Fractions 93 110 2044 2508 ml. are combined and lyophilized to dryness in the dark.The resulting solid is dissolved in degassed 50 acetic acid and is rechromatographed on a column ofSephadex G 25 Fine, as before. The fractions eluted from 2034 to 2214 ml were pooled and lyophilized to dryness in the dark. The resulting solid is dissolved in degassed 0.2M acetic acid 12 ml. and the solution is chromatographed on a Sephadex G 25 Fine column under the following conditions solvent degassed 0.2M acetic acid column size 2.5 X 215 cm temperature 260C flow rate 119 ml hour fraction volume 12.5 ml. plot of absorbance at 280 mp of each fraction versus fraction number shows a single peak.W spectrographic anal rsis indicates that the fractions represented by the main part of this peak comprise the desired product. Fractions 82 89 1011 1111 ml peak, 1034 ml are combined and lyophilized in the dark to give the title peptide. W spectrographic analysis of the combined fractions before lyophilization indicated that 24.4 mg. of the product is obtained.Recovery, 9 from the linear form . Amino acid analysis Gly, 0.98 Cys, 1.50 Lys, 2.0 Ala, 1.03 Phe, 2.89 Thr, 1.84 Ser, 1.62. The above results are expressed as ratios toLys 2. All values are the average of 2 hydrolyses, with no added scavengers. The value for D Trp was not determined. Example 7D Seryl glycyl L cysteinyl L lysyl L alanyl Lphenylalanyl L phenylalanyl D tryptophyl L lysyl L threonyl D phenylalanyl L threonyl L seryl D cyste1ne. The protected peptido resin prepared inExample E 3.511 g., at a substitution level of 0.158 mmole g. resin is mixed with anisole 6.4 ml. and ethyl mercaptan 6.4 ml . The mixture is cooled with liquid nitrogen and liquid hydrogen fluoride 73 ml. is added by distillation. The mixture is then brought to 0 C. and is stirred for 1.5 hours. Removal of hydrogen fluoride by distillation gives a residue to which is added ether at OOC. The solid is collected, washed with ether, and dried. The peptide is separated from the resin by extracting the solid with IM acetic acid and 50 acetic acid. The extract is lyophilized in the dark to dryness. A mixture of 0.2M acetic acid 10 ml and glacial acetic acid 4 ml is added to the dry material, and the suspension is warmed to effect solution.Upon cooling, a small amount of precipitate separates. Addition of 5 ml. of glacial acetic acid followed by warming effected solution. The sample is chromatographed through a Sephadex G 25 Fine column under the following conditions solvent degassed 0.2M acetic acid column size 7.5 X 150 cm temperature 260C flow rate 1602 ml hour fraction volume 24.4 ml. A plot of absorbance at 280 mp of each fraction versus fraction number shows a broad peak. W spectrographic analysis indicates that the fractions represented by the broad peak contain the desired product. Hence, fractions 217 242 5227 5870 ml, peak 5581 ml are combined. W spectrographic analysis of a sample of the combined fractions indicates that 388.8 mg.of the product is obtained. Free sulfhydryl content 86 of theoretical by Ellman titration Example 8D Seryl glycyl L cysteinyl L lysyl L alanyl L phenylalanyl L phenylalanyl D tryptophyl L lysyl L threonyl D phenylalanyl L threonyl L seryl D cysteine cyclic 3 14 disulfide. The linear peptide prepared in Example 7 is air oxidized to the corresponding cyclic peptide by the following procedure The combined fractions obtained in Example 7 643 ml, theoretically containing 388.8 mg. of peptide are diluted with 7137 ml of distilled water to achieve a final solution having a concentration of 50 ug ml. Sufficient concentrated ammonium hydroxide is added to bring the pH to 6.7. The solution is then stirred at room temperature in the dark for about 40 hours at which time Ellman titration of an aliquot indicates complete oxidation. The solution is concentrated in vacuo to a volume of about 35 ml. Glacial acetic acid 35 ml is added and the solution is desalted by chomatography on a Sephadex G 25 Fine Column under the following conditions solvent degassed 50 acetic acid column size 5.0 X 215 cm temperature 260C flow rate 243 ml hour fraction volume 22.8 ml. A plot of absorbance at 280 mp of each fraction versus fraction number shows two large peaks.The first represents the aggregated forms of the peptide, while the second represents monomeric material.Fractions 90 125 2034 2797 ml. are combined and lyophilized to dryness in the dark. The resulting solid is divided into two approximately equal portions and each is taken up in about 25 ml of 50 acetic acid and rechromatographed as before in 50 acetic acid. The corresponding pools from the two reruns are lyophilized to dryness in the dark. The resulting solids are dissolved in degassed 0.2M acetic acid 15 ml. and the solution is chromatographed on a Sephadex G 25 Fine column under the following conditions solvent degassed 0.2M acetic acid column size 5.0 X 150 cm temperature 260C flow rate 450 ml hour fraction volume 15.75 ml. A plot of absorbance at 280 mp of each fraction versus fraction number shows a single peak.W spectrographic analysis indicates that the fractions represented by the main part of this peak comprise the desired product. Fractions 171 181 2688 2864 ml peak, 2757 ml are combined and lyophilized in the dark to give the title peptide. W spectrographic analysis of the combined fractions before lyophilization indicated that 86 mg. of the product is obtained.Recovery, 22.1 from the linear form .Amino acid analysis Gly, 0.97 Cys, 1.51 Lys, 2.04 Ala, 1.03 D andL Phe, 2.85 Thr, 1.83 Ser, 1.69. The above results are expressed as ratios toAla Gly 2. All values are the average of 2 hydrolyses, with no added scavengers. The value for D Trp was not determined. Example 9D Seryl glycyl L cysteinyl L lysyl L alanyl L phenylalanyl L phenylalanyl D tryptophyl L lySyl L threonyl L cyclohexylalanyl L threonyl L seryl Dcysteine. The protected peptido resin prepared inExample F 5.64 g., at a substitution level of 0.169 mmole g. resin is mixed with anisole 10.3 ml. and ethyl mercaptan 10.3 ml . The mixture is cooled with liquid nitrogen and liquid hydrogen fluoride 72 ml. is added by distillation. The mixture is then brought to OOC. and is stirred for two hours. Removal of hydrogen fluoride by distillation gives a residue to which is added ether at OOC. The solid is collected, washed with ether, and dried. The peptide is separated from the resin by extracting the solid with 1M acetic acid and 50 acetic acid. The extract is lyophilized in the dark to 25 ml. A solution of 0.2M acetic acid 275 ml is added to the solution of peptide, and the suspension is warmed to effect solution.The filtrate is chromatographed through a Sephadex G 25 Fine column under the following conditions solvent degassed 0.2M acetic acid column size 10 X 210 cm temperature 260C flow rate 2626 ml hour fraction volume 65.6 ml. A 11,869 ml sample is collected in large flasks and discarded before individual fractions are collected. A plot of absorbance at 280 mp of each fraction versus fraction number shows a broad peak with a back side shoulder. W spectrographic analysis indicates that the fractions represented by the broad peak contain the desired product. Hence, fractions 18 42 12991 14626 ml, peak 13854 ml are combined. UV spectrographic analysis of a sample of the combined fractions indicates that 742.5 mg. of the product is obtained. Recovery 48.2 free sulfhydryl content 93.5 of theoretical by Ellman titration Example 10D Seryl glycyl L cysteinyl L lysyl L alanyl L phenylalanyl L phenylatanyl D tryptophyl L lysyl L threonyl L cyclohexylalanyl L threonyl L seryl Dcysteine cyclic 3 14 disulfide. The linear peptide prepared in Example 9 is air oxidized to the corresponding cyclic peptide by the following procedure The combined fractions obtained in Example 9 1635 ml, theoretically containing 742.5 mg. of peptide are diluted with 13,215 ml of distilled water to achieve a final solution having a concentration of 50 vg ml. Sufficient concentrated ammonium hydroxide is added to bring the pH to 6.7. The solution is then stirred at room temperature in the dark for 41 hours at which time Ellman titration of an aliquot indicates complete oxidation. The solution is concentrated in vacuo to a small volume and 50 acetic acid is added to a total volume of about 250 ml. The solution is desalted by chomatography on a Sephadex G 25 Fine Column under the following conditions solvent degassed 50 acetic acid column size 7.5 X 211 cm temperature 260C flow rate 1200 ml hour fraction volume 20.2 ml. A plot of absorbance at 280 mw of each fraction versus fraction number shows a low, broad peak. Fractions 35 135 3577 5619 ml. are combined and lyophilized to dryness in the dark. The resulting solid is dissolved in degassed 0.2M acetic acid 25 ml. and the solution is chromatographed on a SephadexG 25 Fine column under the following conditions solvent degassed 0.2M acetic acid column size 5.0 X 215 cm temperature 260C flow rate 860 ml hour fraction volume 15.8 ml. A 2120 ml sample is collected in a large flask and discarded before individual fractions are collected. A plot of absorbance at 280 mp of each fraction versus fraction number shows a single peak.UV spectrographic analysis indicates that the fractions represented by the main part of this peak comprise the desired product. Fractions 97 115 3634 3935 ml peak, 3720 ml are combined and lyophilized in the dark to give the title peptide. W spectrographic analysis of the combined fractions before lyophilization indicated that 164.1 mg. of the product is obtained.Recovery, 22.1 from the linear form .Amino acid analysis Gly, 0.89 Cys, 1.75 Lys, 2,0 Ala, 0.91 Phe, 1.87 Thr, 1.81 Ser, 1.65. The above results are expressed as ratios toLys 2. All values are the average of 2 hydrolyses, with no added scavengers. The value for D Trp was not determined. The peak for Cha overlapped the NH3 peak in the amino acid analysis, so Cha was not determined. The effects of the tetradecapeptides ofFormula III on the inhibition of growth hormone, insulin, and glucagon can be elicited and demonstrated in the following test procedures A. Growth Hormone Inhibition In Rats This test is a modification of the method of P. Brazeau et al. Endocrinology, 94, 184 1974 . Male rats weighing 100 110 g. are divided into three groups of eight rats each. Each rat is administered sodium pentobarbital at a dose of 4 mg rat I.P. to stimulate growth hormone GH secretion. Simultaneously, one group of rats receives the test compound S.C. the second group receives somatostatin S.C. and the third group control receives saline S.C. . Twenty minutes later, the animals are decapitated and blood samples are collected. The serum concentration of growth hormone GH is determined by radioimmunoassay. The mean GH concentration standard error of the mean is calculated for each group. The percent inhibition of GH release as compared to saline controls is then calculated for the test compound and for somatostatin. When tested as above described, the peptides of Examples 2, 4, 6, 8 and 10, representative of the peptides of Formula III, gave the results set forth below in Table I TABLE I Growth Hormone Inhibition A D AlaÚ, D Ala5, D Trp8, D Cys14 Somatostatin Example 2 Does GH Serum Conc. ng ml InhibitionExp. ug kg Saline Somatostatin Compound Somatostatin Compound 1 50 65.6 18.6 2.0 0.3 52.5 98.6 2 84.1 18.5 7.1 3.8 39.1 94.9 138.2 33.5 2 50 34.3 20.1 57.9 2.5 14.8 10.9 81.8 2 37.5 11.9 54 0.25 51.0 14.1 37.4 8.15 34.5 3 50 20.1 13.5 86.7 25 2.8 0.2 98.2 2 27.4 11.9 81.9 1 30.6 16.0 79.8 151.5 40.9 TABLE I cont. B D AlaÚ, D Ala5,D Trp8, L ChaÚÚ, D Cys14 Somatostatin Example 4 Dose GH Serum conc. ng ml InhibitionExp. ug kg Saline Somatostatin Compound Somatostatin Compound 1 50 10.3 1.6 8.4 3.4 91 92 2 80.6 28.1 5.5 0.7 27 95 109.6 40.2 C D SerÚ, Ala5, D Trp8, D Cys14 Somatostatin Example 6 Dose GH Serum Conc. mg ml InhibitionExp ug kg Saline Somatostatin Compound Somatostatin Compound 1 50 5.5 1.4 4.0 0.5 93 95 2 32.0 9.9 15.5 5.4 56 79 73.2 36.7 TABLE I cont. D D SerÚ, Ala5, D Trp8, D pheÚÚ, D Cys14 Somatostatin Example 8 Dose CH Serum Conc. ng ml InhibitionExp. ug kg Sailine Somatostatin Compound Somatostatin Compound 1 50 24.7 17.8 40.0 13.4 64 39 2 76.8 21.0 79.6 3 36.2 0 0 66.0 32.9 E D SerÚ.Ala5, D Trp8,ChaÚÚ, D Cys14 Somatostatin Example 10 Dose GH Serum Conc. ng ml InhibitionExp. ug kg Saline Somatostatin Compound Somatostatin Compound 1 50 2.0 .1 2.2 0.1 98 98 2 74.6 27.3 68.8 28.2 28 34 103.5 36.3 Mean SEM B. Insulin and Glucagon Inhibition In Dogs A normal dog is fasted overnight. An intravenous I.V. infusion of the test compound dissolved in saline is begun. Thirty minutes thereafter an additional infusion of L alanine dissolved in saline is begun and is continued for a total of 15 minutes so that a total dose of about 1 mmole of L alanine per kg. body weight is given. Infusion of the test compound is continued for an additional 15 minute period. Blood samples are taken periodically before at 20, 10 and 1 minutes and after 5, 10, 15, 30, 35, 40, 45, 50, 60, 90, 120 and 150 minutes the start of the infusion of the test compound. The serum insulin and serum glucagon concentrations in the blood are determined by radioimmunoassay. A plot is made of the glucagon and insulin concentrations versus time.The plot obtained from the test compound is compared to plots obtained from somatostatin and saline controls in similar experiments. Infusion of L alanine in the absence of somatostatin or active test compound causes an abrupt increase in serum insulin and glucagon concentrations. The concentrations return to basal levels after theL alanine infusion is terminated. Infusion of somatostatin alone causes a decrease in basal serum concentrations of insulin and glucagon. In the presence of L alanine, somatostatin inhibits the increase in insulin and glucagon councentrations induced by the L alanine. When tested according to the procedure above described the peptides of Examples 2, 4, 6, 8 and 10 gave the following results InfusionPeptide Dose ug kg min ResultExample 2 0.098 No inhibition of 0.181 glucagon and insulin 0.291Example 4 o.ds No inhibition of glucagon and insulinExample 6 0.05 Significant inhibition of glucagon and insulinExample 8 0.20 No inhibition of glucagon and insulinExample 10 0.06 Partial inhibition of glucagon and insulatum.