# Aluminophosphorous compound, process for producing same and its use.

## Abstract
The present invention provides the following An aluminophosphorus compound wherein the atomic ratio of P to AI exceeds 1 1 and having anion exchange properties. A process for preparing such an aluminophosphorus compound comprising treating an aluminous compound, for example a zeolite, a clay, or alumina with a melt comprising a phosphate, for example ammonium dihydrogen orthophosphate, and removing excess phosphate from the compound thereby formed. A process for at least partially removing anions from an aqueous solution which comprises contacting the aqueous solution containing the anions with the aluminophosphorus compound. A process for the chromatographic separation of two anions in aqueous solution wherein the chromatographic stationary phase comprises the aluminophosphorus compound.

## Claims
We Claim 1. An aluminophosphorus compound characterised by having an atomic ratio of phosphorus to aluminium in excess of 1 1. 2. A compound as claimed in claim 1 wherein the said ratio is from 1.5 to 3. 3. A compound as claimed in claim 2 wherein the said ratio is from 2 to 2.5. 4. A compound as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 3 having anion exchange properties. 5. A compound as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 4 also containing nitrogen. 6. A compound as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 5 also containing silica. 7. A compound as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 6 not containing structural or coordinated water as shown by infra red absorbtion analysis. 8. A compound as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 7 having an x ray diffraction pattern showing some or all of the following lines or lines not differing substantially therefrom. d spacings A Intensity 5.78 VS 5.25 w 4.84 w 4.15 M 3.90 S 3.37 W 3.12 W 2.94 VS 2.60 VW 2.47 VW 2.42 W 2.31 W 2.06 W 1.94 M VS very strong S strong M medium W weak VW very weak. 9. A process for the preparation of an aluminophosphorus compound as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 8 characterised by treating an aluminous compound with a melt comprising a phosphate. 10. A process as claimed in claim 9 wherein the aluminous compound is a zeolite a clay or an alumina or a calcined derivative of any of the foregoing. 11. A process as claimed in claim 9 wherein the aluminous compound is a zeolite having a SiO2 to A1203 ratio of from 1 to 10. 12. A process as claimed in claim 9 wherein the aluminous compound is a kaolin group clay or a calcined derivative thereof. 13. A process as claimed in claim 9 wherein the aluminous compound is alumina. 14. A process as claimed in any one of claims 9 to 13 wherein the phosphate is an ammonium phosphate. 15 A process as claimed in claim 14 wherein the phosphate is ammonium dihydrogen orthophosphate. 16. A process as claimed in any one of claims 9 to 15 wherein the phosphate is in a weight excess over the aluminious compound. 17. A process as claimed in claim 16 wherein the excess is at least 3 fold. 18. A process as claimed in any one of claims 9 to 15 wherein the melt has a temperature not more than 100 bC above the melting temperature of the phosphate. 19. A process as claimed in any one of claims 9 to 18 wherein the aluminous compound is contacted with the melt for at least 5 hours. 20. A process as claimed in claim 19 wherein the aluminous compound is contacted with the melt for at least 7 hours. 21. A process as claimed in any one of claims 9 to 20 wherein the aluminophosphorus compound is treated with water or an aqueous solution to dissolve surplus phosphate therefrom. 22. An aluminophosphorus compound whenever prepared by a process as claimed in any one of claims 9 to 21. 23. A process for removing anions from an aqueous solution comprising contacting the aqueous solution with an aluminophosphorus compound as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 8 or 22. 24. A process as claimed in claim 23 wherein the anions are halide anions or hydroxyl anions. 25. A process for the chromatographic separation of two anions in aqueous solution wherein the chromatographic stationary phase is an aluminophosphorous compound as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 8 or 22. 26. A process for the preparation of an aluminophosphorous compound substantially as described with reference to any one of examples 1 to 10 herein. 27. An aluminophosphorous compound substantially as described with reference to any one of examples 1 to 10 herein.

## Description
Aluminium Compounds The present invention relates to aluminium compounds, more particularly to aluminophosphorus compounds. More particularly, the present invention provides a range of novel aluminophosphorus compounds having utility inter alia , as anion exchangers and a method by which they may be prepared. A wide range of inorganic cation exchangers is known including, for example, natural or synthetic zeolites and natural or synthetic clays and such cation exchangers are widely used in, for example, water treatment. However there are presently commercially available no reversible inorganic anion exchange materials. The aluminophosphorus compounds provided by the present invention are characterised by an atomic ratio of phosphorus to aluminium in excess of 1 1 that is, they contain more atoms of phosphorus than of aluminium. The aluminophosphorus compounds provided by the present invention may be prepared, also according to the invention, by treating an aluminous compound that is a compound containing aluminium combined with oxygen in a framework which may be, for example, a sheet, a layered or a three dimensional type of framework, and which may contain other atoms for example silicon which aluminous compound may, for example, be a natural or synthetic zeolite, or a natural or synthetic clay or alumina with a melt comprising a phosphate. The phosphate used to form the melt for the treatment of the aluminous compound is, preferably, an ammonium phosphate since these salts melt at not unduly high temperatures, and is, particularly preferably, ammonium dihydrogen orthophosphate NH4H2P04 which melts at 1900C. The treatment of the aluminous compound is preferably carried out at a temperature at least 20 C above the melting point of the phosphate and, suitably, at a temperature below the decomposition temperature of the phosphate and, preferably but not essentially, at a temperature not more than 100OC particularly preferably not more than 60 C above the said melting point. Suitably, treatment of the aluminous compound with ammonium dihydrogen phosphate may be conducted of from 2100C to 25O0C. A preferred procedure for conducting the treatment of the aluminous compound involves placing a layer of the compound upon a layer of the phosphate in a suitable vessel and heating the vessel so that the compound sinks into the phosphate as it melts. Alternative means of conducting the treatment will be readily apparent to those versed in the conduct of practical chemical operations such as, for example, the expedient of causing a melt of the phosphate to move upwardly into a suitably supported body of the aluminous compound. Preferably, the phosphate is in a weight excess over the aluminous compound, such excess suitably being at least 3 fold, for example at least 5 fold. The contact between the phosphate melt and the aluminous compound is preferably maintained for a period of time sufficient to allow the formation of the novel compounds of the invention to an appreciable extent, which time ls, preferably, at least 5 hours, particularly preferably at least 7 hours but which, more advantageously, is at least 12 hours for example more than 18 hours. It may be found desirable to use a contact time even in excess of this, for example up to 48 or 60 hours to maximise the yield of the desired aluminophosphorus product. After the treatment of the aluminous compound with the melt, the product mixture is preferably poured into boiling water, or a boiling aqueous solution of a salt, so as to dissolve surplus phosphate and the remaining solid is then separated, for example by centrifugation or filtration. Amongst zeolites which may be used to form the aluminophosphorus compounds of the present invention are those having the general formula. Na2O.Al203 . psic2 . qH2O in which q is usually non zero and in which p can very widely but preferably, has a positive, not necessarily integral, value up to 10. It is recognised that the zeolites may be such that Na2O in the above general formula is replaced, at least partially, by K20, NH4 20, CaO or other oxides, or by mixtures of such, or other, oxides.Examples of such suitable zeolites are zeolite A for which the value of p in the above general formula is about 2, zeolite X for which the value of p in the above general formula is about 2.5, zeolite Y for which the value of p in the above general formula is from about 3 to about 5 and clinoptilolite which is a naturally occuring zeolite in which the value of p in the above general formula is about 10 and in which formula some of the Na20 is replaced by K20. Amongst clays which may be used to form the aluminophosphorus compounds of the present invention are those of the kaolin group, for example kaolinite itself or meta kaolinite which may be obtained by calcining kaolinite at, for example, 5500C for 1 hour. During the treatment of the aluminous compound with the melt, when using an ammonium phosphate, the evolution of ammonia gas is observed despite the fact that the phosphate may be stable to decomposition at the temperature used. This ammonia is presumably produced when the phosphate reacts with the aluminous compound to incorporate phosphorus. When subjected to x ray powder diffraction investigations the aluminophosphorus compounds provided by the invention tended to show a substantial number of common identifying features together with features which could be attributed to residual quantities of the aluminous compound. For example, the products prepared according to the invention from zeolite A, zeolite X, zeolite Y, kaolinite, meta kaolinite and alumina all showed a substantial number of at least the more marked of the following d spacings or of d spacings not differing substantially therefrom, to an extent which would lead an expert in the interpretation of x ray powder diffraction patterns to ,deduce that all of the products showed a common feature not attributable to the starting materials and that that common feature, as judged by reference to published collections of x ray powder diffraction patterns, was novel.The d spacings referred to above are as follows. d spacings A Intensity 5.78 VS 5.25 W 4.84 W 4.15 M 3.90 S 3.37 W 3.12 W 2.94 VS 2.60 VhT 2.47 VW 2.42 W 2.31 W 2.06 W 1.94 M VS very strong S strong M medium W weak W very weak. Of course, other lines can be identified some of which can sometimes be attributed to, for example, residual quantities of the particular aluminous compound used or to a modified form thereof due, possibly, to the particular process steps used in the manufacture of the aluminophosphorus compounds. However the x ray powder diffraction patterns show no other identifiable crystalline substance. The aluminophosphorus compounds of the invention as already stated, have novelty by virtue of the preponderance of phosphorus atoms therein. It is more particularly envisaged that the compounds may, suitably, have a phosphorus to aluminium ratio of from about 1.5 to 3, for example from about 2 to about 2.5. A remarkable constancy has been found in the phosphorus to aluminium ratio which is thought to indicate a particular structural relationship between these elements. The compounds provided by the invention, where the aluminous compound contains silica, generally have a substantial silica content. It is not known whether this silica forms part of the framework of the aluminophosphorus compounds by isomorphous substitution for aluminium or whether it does not. It is deduced however, that it may not play an essential part in the compounds of the invention since that product may also be attained from alumina there being no silica present. Some at least of the compounds of the invention show a content of nitrogen remaining after the evolution thereof which occurs during the preparation of the compounds.Thermal analysis shows a characteristic endotherm between about 5000C and 6000C on the differential scanning calorimetry profile which cannot be explained by a loss of structural or co ordinated water since such is not shown to be present by infra red absorbtion analysis. It may be that the endotherm is due to a deammination reaction consistent with the presence of nitrogen. The anion exchange properties of the compounds of the invention lead to diverse uses therefor and the present invention further provides a process for at least partially removing anions from an aqueous solution which comprises contacting the aqueous solution containing the anions with an alumino phosphorus compound provided by the invention having anion exchange properties. Suitably the anions may be halide, for example fluoride anions. It may often be desirable, before the product is used, to make the material as homoanionic as possible by treatment with an aqueous solution containing a particular desired anion. While we have above referred especially to the anion exchange capacity of the compounds provided by the invention, it should be noted that they may have an appreciable although generally not very great cation exchange capacity. The term anion exchange has been used throughout this specification to refer tb the concomitant uptake of one anion and the release of another. It is not intended that the term be limiting to any particular mechanism by which this practical effect may be achieved. In respect of the compounds provided by the present invention the reference above to anion exchange properties is to be regarded as characterising the new materials, and not to be limiting on the invention to those aspects of the compounds actually in use as anion exchangers. In zeolites, it is known that the quantity and nature of various cations in the channels and cavities of the aluminosilicate framework affects the retention even of neutral molecules in the zeolite and also affects the catalytic properties of the zeolite and the cationcontaining zeolites are valuable as molecular sieves and catalysts. Similar applications for the compounds provided by the present invention are envisaged, especially in applications where the hydrophobicity of the materials affected differently by anions than by cations is of importance. The present invention also provides a process for the chromatographic separation of two anions in aqueous solution wherein the chromatographic stationary phase comprises an alumino phosphorus compound provided by the invention. Chromatographic separation processes may be performed in the usual manner by, taking advantage of the difference in affinity of the alumino phosphorus compounds for the anions in question. Following a conventional technique, the aqueous solution may be applied to a column containing the compounds provided by the invention so as to put the ions into a narrow band at one end of the column, and then the band may be transmitted towards the other end of the column, with progressive separation of the band into two or more bands, by application of a suitable eluent. This is, of course only an example of a possible procedure. It is not necessary that a column should be used for instance the compounds provided by the invention could be incorporated into a thin layer on a support plate. The present invention also provides catalysts consisting of or comprising the aluminophosphorus compounds provided by the present invention. The invention will now be illustrated by the following examples 1 to 10 with reference to Tables I to IV herein and Figures 1 to 6 attached hereto. Table I shows the x ray powder diffraction pattern of the zeolite 4A Q used in Example 1 and of the aluminophosphorus compound H prepared therefrom according to the invention. The symbol is is is used to denote a particular reflection in angstroms and the symbol nI Io its intensity as a . Table II shows the analysis by weight, expressed as oxides of the Hector Clinoptilolite used in Example 4 A and of the purified form thereof produced in the course of that Example B . Table III shows the x ray powder diffraction pattern of the Hector Clinoptilolite used in Example 4 A , of the purified form thereof B and of aluminophosphorus compound L prepared from B according to the invention. The symbols d and I Io have the meanings above ascribed to them Int denotes Intensity . Table IV shows the x ray powder diffraction patterns of the aluminophosphorus compounds prepared by Examples 4 10. The symbols used are as in Tables I and III. Figure 1 shows differential thermal analysis DTA curves for the zeolite 4A Q used in Example 1, the aluminophosphorus compound prepared therefrom H , the purified clinoptilolite prepared in Example 4 B and the aluminophosphorus compound prepared therefrom L . The ordinate is divided into arbitrary units and the abscissa into OC. Figure 2 shows differential scanning calorimetry DSC curves for the same materials Q , H , B and L . Again, the ordinate is divided into arbitrary units and the abscissa into OC. Figures 3 4 are scanning electron micrographs of the zeolite 4A Q used in Example 1 and of the aluminophosphorus compound prepared therefrom H . Figure 5 shows the infra red spectrograph of the materials Q , H , B and L . The abscissa is divided into wave numbers expressed in cm l. Figure 6 shows a plot of the mass of chloride eluted in micrograms on the ordinate against time in minutes on the abscissa from the aluminophosphorus compound prepared according to Example 2 from pelleted zeolite 4A. Example 1Preparative Zeolite 4A powder sodium form Q as supplied byLaporte Industries Limited of Widnes, England was used as the starting material A layer of Q was placed on top of nine times its weight of ammonium dihydrogen orthophosphate, and the materials were heated slowly to 2300C. From the time when the ammonium dihydrogen orthophosphate began to melt the mixture was occasionally stirred. A temperature of 2300C was maintained for eight hours. Then the mixture was poured, while still hot, into 20 times its weight of boiling water. After vigorous stirring, the product was centrifuged and the solid thus separated was washed five times with water and dried at 110 C. The product thus obtained will be referred to as H. Characterisation and properties of H a H was analysed by x ray fluorescence to determine theSi Al P ratio, and for comparison the starting material Q was analysed in the same manner. The results were as follows Si Al P 9 1.02 1 0 H 1.78 1 2.14 b H was found, by wet analysis, to contain 7.62 per cent by weight of Si. Wet analysis for Al and P is unfortunately difficult in their mutual presence. c The x ray powder diffraction patterns of Q and H are compared in Table I. No bulk NH4H2P04 phase which has a strong reflections at 5.32 A and 3.75 A was detected. 0There are reflections present having spacings above 5.78 A. These reflections may possibly be attributed to residual quantities of Zeolite 4A or a modified form thereof. TABLE I Q H d , I Io d , I Io 12.08 100 12.08 72 8.54 60 8.57 39 7.00 40 6.32 13 5.46 16 5.78 72 4.08 59 5.27 30 3.71 70 4.89 20 3.40 20 4.13 44 3.28 23 3.95 81 2.98 55 3.38 22 2.75 20 3.12 35 2.62 30 2.95 100 2.51 12 2.61 15 2.46 11 2.49 9 2.37 10 2.42 26 2.25 9 2.32 22 2.18 11 2.19 5 2.05 17 2.15 7 1.92 9 2.07 9 1.89 9 2.02 11 1.83 8 1.95 22 1.74 15 1.91 7 1.69 10 1.85 9 1.60 9 1.74 20 1.57 8 1.68 10 1.43 5 1.60 16 1.40 8 1.53 25 1.34 11 1.48 19 1.32 7 1.35 13 1.29 6 1.30 9 1.25 8 1.24 14 1.22 5 1.22 8 d DTA traces for Q and H are given in Figure 1, and DSC traces in Figure 2. e Scanning electron micrographs of Q and H are given asFigures 3 and 4 respectively. f Infra red spectra of 0 and H are given in Figure 5. It will be seen that Q displays a marked peak at about 1130 cm l g Water leaching of H removed 4.7 of the P present.This was demonstrated both by determining phosphate in the water used for leaching and by checking the maximum weight loss on repeated water washing. h H was placed in a tube with an aqueous solution of NaCl of 0.5 mol litre concentration and the tube was rotated horizontally overnight at 800C. The uptake of sodium from the solution was 2.8 of the exchangeable sodium content of an equal mass of O. In a similar experiment with KC1, the number of moles of potassium taken up from the solution was 3.2 of the number of moles of exchangeable sodium in an equal mass of Q. i H had an anion exchange properties but because of its particle size it was preferred to perform detailed experiments on material made from zeolite 4A pellets seeExample 2 .Example 2Preparative The starting material was sodium zeolite 4A pellets as supplied by Laporte Industries of Widnes, England. These pellets contain about 20 weight per cent of a binder in addition to the zeolite itself. The procedure of Example 1 was modified in that a boiling aqueous solution of NH4C1 of concentration 1 mol litre was used instead of boiling water, and in that an after treatment was performed. This after treatment involved placing the product in a tube with aqueous NH4Cl solution of concentration 1 mol litre at 800C and rotating the tube horizontally overnight. Thereafter, the product was filtered and the residue thus obtained was washed with water and dried at 1100C. This product is referred to as J.Characterisation and properties of J J 2g was washed with water until the washings contained no chloride, and then was placed in a column.The column had an outer diameter of 0.5 cm and the packed length of the column was 10 cm. Then an aqueous solution of NaF of concentration 0.1 mol litre was passed into the column. The rate of flow was 1 cm3 per 4 min. The total amount of C1 eluted is plotted as a function of time the time zero is arbitrary in Figure 6. The experiment shows the presence of exchangeable chloride anions in J.Example 3Preparation of purified sodium clinoptilolite B from Hector clinoptilolite A The Hector clinoptilolite was supplied by the BaroidDivision of National Lead USA and which according to the suppliers was of 85 95 purity. The analysis of this material which is referred to as A is given in Table II and the x ray powder diffraction pattern is given in TableIII. Lines marked in Table III are thought to be due to impurity phases. A was powdered, refluxed with water to remove soluble impurities refluxed with aqueous ammonium chloride solution saturated at room temperature to remove carbonates washed with water until chloride free treated with an aqueous 1.0 mol litre solution of NaCl to reduce the concentration of exchangeable cations other than sodium washed with water until chloride free and dried at 1000C in air. The analysis and x ray powder diffraction pattern of the product, B, are given in Tables II and III. TABLE II A B SiO2 61.10 67.22 A12O3 10.52 11.08 Fe2O3 0.91 0.78 TiO2 0.36 0.32 CaO 3.34 0.27 MgO 0.47 0.11 Na2O 5.30 5.38 K2O 1.48 0.60 loss at 1100C 8.36 6.17 Additional loss at 9000C 8.72 7.44 TOTAL 100.56 99.37 Preparation of an anion exchanger L from B This preparation followed that in Example 1 except that the zeolite starting material was B instead of Q. The product is referred to as L .Characterisation of L a L was analysed by x ray fluorescence, and for comparison B was analysed in the same manner. The results were Si Al P B 5.13 1 0 L 4.70 1 2.40 b L was found, by wet analysis, to contain 25.5 weight si. c The x ray powder diffraction pattern of L is given inTable III. No bulk NH4H2PO4 phase is evident. The reflections above 5.91 angstroms may be due to the presence of residual quantities of clinoptilolite or a modified form thereof. d The DTA traces for Band L are given in Figure 1, andDSC traces in Figure 2. e Infra red spectra of B and L are given in Figure 5.It will be seen that B displays a marked peak qt about 1100 cm l, f Water leaching of L removed 4.3 of the P present the technique was as described under g in Example 1 . g The experiment described for H on sodium and potassium exchange compared with Q see Example 1 characterisation section paragraph h was repeated for L compared with B.The percentages were 15 for sodium and 12.4 for potassium. h The product had anion exchange properties. TABLE III A B L d , Int. d , I Io d , I o. 11.4 w 8.70 80 8.91 56 8.8 s 7.80 55 7.68 56 7.8 s 6.81 57 7.45 44 6.8 ms 5.12 30 5.91 62 6.6 mw 3.95 100 5.42 40 5.2 mw 3.31 80 4.94 31 5.1 ms 3.14 44 4.17 56 4.62 m 3.09 47 3.96 80 4.5 mw 2.94 56 3.81 47 4.35 mw 2.76 38 3.39 61 4.22 mw 2.52 12 3.12 40 3.95 vs 2.42 19 2.97 100 3.85 m 1.94 15 2.43 21 3.31 s 1.80 17 2.33 17 3.13 m 1.48 17 2.03 16 3.0 m 1.97 16 2.94 s 1.75 17 2.77 s 1.69 11 2.70 m 1.61 11 1.51 17 1.48 13 1.38 11 vs very strong s strong ms medium strong m medium mw medium weak w weak vw very weak EXAMPLES 4 10 A series of preparations of aluminophosphorus compounds was undertaken using the following aluminous compounds as starting materials.EXAMPLE 4 Zeolite A powder six2 A12O3 2 1 Laporte Industries. 5 Zeolite A pellets as Example 4 but with 20 wt binder Laporte Industries. 6 Zeolite X powder Si02 A1203 2.45 1 Laporte Industries. 7 Zeolite Y powder SiO2 A1203 5.08 1 Laporte Industries. 8 Kaolinite Buca grade Freeport Kaolin Company. 9 Metakaolinite The Kaolinite of Example 8 calcined at 5500C for 1 hour . 10 Alumina 40 80 mesh . Laporte Industries. The following procedure was adopted. Ammonium dihydrogen orthophosphate was introduced into a 3 necked reaction flask which was fitted with a stirrer and an oilfilled glass tube containing a thermocouple one neck being left open. The flask was heated to melt the orthophosphate which was stirred vigorously. One tenth, by weight of the orthophosphate, of the appropriate aluminous compound was introduced into the molten orthophosphate through the open flask neck and a temperature of 230or was maintained in the flask content for 24 hours. In all cases ammonia was evolved. The hot mixture was then poured into 20 times its weight of boiling water which was then stirred and subjected to filtration to remove solids. The solids were washed several times with water and dried at llO C. On. x ray powder diffraction examination the products ofExamples 6 to 10 showed the patterns set out in Table IV below. Only the reflections above 1.5 angstroms are listed. The products of Examples 4 and 5 also showed patterns containing a substantial number of identifying features common with those of the other Examples leading to the conclusion that they also contained a novel aluminophosphorus compound according to the invention. TABLE IVExample Example Example 6 7 8 d Int d Int d Int 5.72 m 5.70 w 5.75 s 5.25 vw 5.20 vw 5.28 vw 4.80 vw 4.10 vw 4.85 w 4.18 vw 3.86 w 4.20 w 4.10 w 3.34 vw 4.12 m 3.89 m 2.91 w 3.90 s 3.35 vw 2.40 vw 3.37 w 3.10 vw 1.93 vw 3.11 vw 3.04 vw 1.52 vw 3.05 vw 2.93 m 2.94 s 2.64 vw 2.61 vw 2.59 vw 2.42 vw 2.41 vw 2.32 w 2.31 vw 2.29 vw 2.14 vw 2.19 vw 1.95 vw 2.15 w 1.92 vw 2.07 vw 1.83 vw 2.03 vw 1.73 vw 1.97 vw 1.64 vw 1.95 1.60 vw 1.90 vw 1.52 vw 1.85 vw 1.74 vw 1.63 vw 1.60 vw 1.53 w Example Example 9 10 d Int d Int 3.89 m 5.78 vs 3.35 vw 5.25 m 3.11 vw 4.83 w 2.92 m 4.21 m 2.59 vw 4.12 s 2.41 vw 3.89 vs 2.30 vw 3.62 vw 2.13 vw 3.35 m 2.02 vw 3.11 m 1.95 vw 3.04 w 1.83 vw 2.93 vs 1.72 vw 2.66 vw 1.59 vw 2.59 w 1.52 vw 2.52 vw 2.48 vw 2.41 m 2.38 w 2.32 m 2.28 m 2.22 vw 2.18 vw 2.13 w 2.11 vw 2.06 w 2.03 vw 2.00 vw 1.97 vw 1.95 m 1.92 vw 1.89 vw 1.87 vw 1.83 m 1.73 m 1.70 vw 1.67 w 1.64 vw Example 10 int 1.61 w 1.59 w 1.56 vw 1.55 vw 1.54 vw 1.52 m On analysis by x ray fluorescence the products showed the following Si Al P atomic ratios. Example 4 0.52 1.0 2.08 Example 6 0.50 1.0 2.08 Example 7 2.51 1.0 2.24 Example 10 0 1.0 2.02 Analysis of the product of Example 10 showed the presence of nitrogen. Infra red spectrophotometry did not reveal the presence of structural or co ordinated water.Thermogravimetric analysis showed a weight loss at 5000C 6000C. The product of Example 5 was examined with reference to its ability to exchange anions. A 4 g sample of the product was placed in a 0.5 cm diameter 20 cm high column and was eluted with 3 litres of 0.1 mol litre NaF. Testing with Ag NO3 showed the elution of metaphosphate ion PO3 . The column was then washed with distilled water many times.Then the column was eluted with a 0.1 mole litre NaOH solution and, using d fluoride specific ion electrode Orion Co , elution of fluoride was observed. Then the column was washed, once more, many times with distilled water and was eluted with a 0.2 mole litre NaF solution whereupon the elution of hydroxide was found to take place demonstrating anability for reversible anion exchange. The product of Example 4 and Example 10 were examined to determine their anion exchange capacity with respect to fluoride and capacities of 3.26 meg g and 0.8 meg g were noted.