# Acylated indole derivatives, processes for their preparation and pharmaceutical compositions and drugs comprising them.

## Abstract
The invention provides acylated indole derivatives of the following formula The invention also provides processes for producing the acylated indole derivatives by acylating a 3 unsubsti tuted indole derivative or 3 unsubstituted tetrahydroindole derivative with an acid anhydride in the presence of hydro gen iodide. Some of acylated indole derivatives have biological activities, particularly the ability to inhibit platelet aggre gation with a reduced tendency to ulcer formation.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. An acylated indole derivative of the formulaEMI133.1 wherein R1 represents a hydrogen atom or a lower alkyl group, R2 represents a lower alkyl group, R3 represents a hydrogen atom or a lower alkyl group, R4 represents a hydrogen atom, a hydroxyl group, a halogen atom, a lower alkyl group, or a lower alkoxy group, Z represents a phenyl or thienyl group or a phenyl or thienyl group sub stituted by the group R4, Y represents a bond, O , S , SO , or S02 , A represents a hydrogen atom, a lower alkyl group, a lower acyl group, a phenyl group, a phenylalkyl group, a 5 or 6 membered heterocyclic group having an oxygen, sulfur or nitrogen atom, or a phenyl, alkylphenyl or 5 or 6 membered O , S or N contining heterocyclic group substituted by the group R4, and n represents zero or an integer of 1 to 10 provided that when n is zero, Y represents a bond and A represents a lower acyl group or an optically active isomer t hereof or a salt thereof. 2. A compound according to claim 1 wherein R1 represents a methyl group. 3. A compound according to claim 1 or 2 whereinR2 represents an alkyl group having 1 to 3 carbon atoms. 4. A compound according to claim 1 wherein n is zero or an integer of 1 to 3. 5. A compound according to claim 1 wherein said acylated indole derivative is represented by the formulaEMI134.1 wherein R21 represents an alkyl group having 1 to 3 carbon atoms1 the two R4 s are identical or different, R4, Y and A are as defined in claim 1, and m represents zero or an integer of 1 to 3, provided that when m is zero, Y represents a bond and A represents a lower acyl group. 6. A compound according to claim 5 wherein said acylated indole derivative is represented by the formulaEMI134.2 wherein R41 represents a hydrogen atom, a hydroxyl group, a chlorine atom, a methyl group or a methoxy group, A represents a hydrogen atom, an alkyl group having 1 to 4 carbon atoms, an acyl group having 1 to 4 carbon atoms, a phenyl group or a 5 or 6 membered heterocyclic ring containing an oxygen, sulfur or nitrogen atom, and R is 0, 1 or 2 provided that when t is 0, Y represents a bond and A1 represents said acyl group. 7. A process for producing an acylated indole derivative of the formulaEMI135.1 wherein RÚ, Rê, R , R4 and Z are as defined in Claim 1, A represents a hydrogen atom, a lower alkyl group, a lower acyl group, a phenyl group, a phenyVikyl group, a 5 or 6 membered heterocyclic group containing an oxygen, sulfur or nitrogen atom, or a phenyl, phenylalkyl or 5 or 6 membered 0 , S or N containing heterocyclic group substituted by a hydrogen atom, a halogen atom, a lower alkyl group or a lower alkoxy group, and n represents an integer of 1 to 10, which process comprises condensing an indole derivative of the formulaEMI135.2 wherein R42 represents a hydrogen atom, a halogen atom, a lower alkyl group or a lower alkoxy group, and E represents a lower alkyl group, a lower acyl group, a phenyl group, a phenylalkyl group, a 5 or 6 membered heterocyclic group containing an oxygen, sulfur or nitrogen atom, or a phenyl, phenylalkyl or 5 or 6 membored 0 , S or N containing heterocyclic group substituted by the group R with an acid anhydride of the formulaEMI136.1 wherein Z1 represents a phenyl or thienyl group or a phenyl or thienyl group substituted by the group R42 or a protected hydroxyl group, in the presence of hydrogen iodide, and if desired, hydrolyzing the resulting product. 8. A process for producing an acylated indole derivative of the formulaEMI136.2 wherein R1, R2, R3, R4, n and Z are as defined with respect to claim 7, which process comprises condensing an indole derivative of the formulaEMI136.3 wherein R42 is as defined in claim 7, with an acid anhydride of the formula EMI137.1 wherein Z1 is as defined in claim 7, in the presence of hydrogen iodide, and if desired, hydrolyzing the resulting product. 9. A process for producing an acylated indole derivative of the formulaEMI137.2 wherein R1, R21 R3, R4, Z and n are as defined with respect to claim 7, which process comprises condensing an indole derivative of the formulaEMI137.3 wherein R42 is as defined in claim 7, with an acid anhydride of the formulaEMI137.4 wherein Z1 is as defined in claim 7, in the presence of hydrogen iodide, and if desired, hydrolyzing the resulting product. 10. A process for producing an acylated indole derivative of the formulaEMI138.1 wherein R, R, R, R, n and Z are as defined with respect to claim 7, and Aê is as defined below, which process comprises condensing an N hydroxyalkyl acylated indole derivative of the formulaEMI138.2 with an organic disulfide compound of the formula Aê SS Aê ...... IV wherein A2 represents a lower alkyl group, or a phenyl, phenylalkyl or 5 or 6 membered 0 , S or N containing heterocyclic group optionally substituted by a protected hydroxyl group or R42 as defined in claim 7, in the presence of an organic phosphine compound and a nitrogen containing basic compound. 11. A process for producing an acylated indole derivative of the formula EMI139.1 wherein R1 R2I R3, R42, n and. z are as defined with respect to claim 7, and Q represents a lower alkyl group, a phenylalkyl group, or a phenylalkyl group substituted by R42 which process comprises condensing an N hydroxyalkyl acylated indole derivative of the formulaEMI139.2 wherein Z1 is as defined in claim 7, with a halogen compound of the formula Q X V wherein Q is as defined above, and X represents a halogen atom, in the presence of a basic compound, and if desired, hydrolyzing the resulting product. 12. A process for producing an acylated indole derivative of the formula EMI140.1 wherein yl represents a bond or 0 , and R1, R2, , R4, n, n, A and Z are as defined with respect to claim 7, which process comprises condensing a tetrahydroindole derivative of the formulaEMI140.2 Wherein R42 and E are as defined with respect to claim 7. with an acid anhydride of the formulaEMI140.3 wherein Z1 is as defined in claim 7, in the presence of hydrogen iodide to form an acylated tetrahydroindole derivative of the following formulaEMI140.4 and then dehydrogenating the resulting product, and if desired, hydrolyzing the dehydrogenation product. 13. A process for producing an acylated indole derivative of the formulaEMI141.1 wherein R1 R2, R3, R42, n and Z are as defined with respect to claim 7, and T3 represents a hydrogen atom, or T2 defined below, which process comprises reacting an N halo or sulfonyloxyalkyl acyld indole derivative of the formulaEMI141.2 wherein Z1 is as defined in claim 7, and T1 represents a halogen atom, OS02C H3, orEMI141.3 with a thiocarboxylic acid or thiourea or an alkali metal salt thereof having the formula Tê S M ...... IX wherein T2 represents a lower alkyl or amidino group, and M represents a hydrogen atom or an alkali metal, and then if desired, hydrolyzing the resulting product. 14. A process for producing an acylated indole derivative of the formula EMI142.1 wherein R1 R2, R3, R4s n and Z are as defined with respect to claim 7, and A2 is as defined in claim 10, and p is 1 or 2, which process comprises oxidizing an acylated indole derivative of the formulaEMI142.2 in a manner known per Se. 15. A pharmaceutical composition for use in the inhibition of platelet aggregation, comprising 1 a pharmaceutically effective amount of an acylated indole derivative of formula 1 as defined in claim 5 or an optically active isomer thereof or a salt thereof, and 2 a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier. 16. A pharmaceutical composition for use in the inhibition of platelet aggregation, comprising 1 a pharmaceutically effective amount of an acylated indole derivative of the formula LI 2 as defined in claim 6 or an optically active isomer thereof or a salt thereof1 and 2 a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier. 17. A drug for use in the inhibition of platelet aggregation comprising a pharmaceutically effective amount of an acylated indole derivative of formula LI a as defined in claim 7 or an optically active isomer thereof or an salt thereof, and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier. 18. A drug according to claim 17 in a form suitable for oral administration.

## Description
DESCRIPTION ACYLATED INDOLE DERIVATIVES, PROCESSES FOR THEIRPREPARATION AND PHARMACEUTICAL COMPOSITIONS ANDDRUGS COMPRISING THEM This invention relates to acylated indole derivatives, a process for production thereof, and to a pharmaceutical composition containing such an acylated indole derivative as an active ingredient As acylated indole derivatives having pharmacological activities, indomethacin of the following formulaEMI1.1 and clomethacin of the formulaEMI1.2 have. been well known as compounds having anti inflammatory activities. It is well known on the other hand that these compounds have a strong tendency to induce ulcer formation, and should still be improved. Henry Invon et al. reported that acylated indole compounds of the following formulaEMI2.1 wherein R represants methyl, ethyl, isopropyl, iso butyl, cyclohexyl, methoxy, or Cl or Br substituted phenyl, and Rss represents hydrogen, methyl, ethyl, iso propyl, iso butyl, vinyl, n pentyl, benzyl, chloro or methoxy substituted benzyl, carboxymethyl, ethoxycarbonylmethyl or a carboxyethyl 5 dimethylamino ethyl, have fibrinolytic activity see Eur. J. Ned. Chem.Chimica Therapeutica, May June 1975 10, No. 3, pp. 276285 . Ryszard J. Grgglewiski et al. reported that a compound of the following formulaEMI2.2 has an action of inhibiting platelet aggregation seePharmacological Research Communications, vol. 9, No. 2, 1977 . However, acylated indole derivatives in which the 3 position of the indole skeleton is substituted by an acyl group other than pyridylcarbonyl and its 1position is substituted by an alkyl group or substituted alkyl group branched by an carbon atom have not been known to date. Investigations of the present inventors have shown that the compound reported by Ryszart J. Grgglewski et al. in which the 3 position of the indole skeleton is substituted by g pyridylcarbonyl group and its l poaition does not have a substitutent, certainly has an action of inhibiting platelet aggregation, but Qfl the other hind, has an unnegligible tendency to induce ulcer formation. It is an object of this invention therefore to provide novel acylated indole derivatives wherein the 3 position of the indole skeleton is substituted by a substituted or unsubstituted phenyl or thienyl group and its 1 position is substituted by an alkyl or aub stituted alkyl group branched by an a carbon atom Another object of this invention is to provide a novel process for producing said novel acylated indole derivatives, Still another object of this invention is to provide a pharmaceutical composition having the ability to inhibit platelet aggregation comprising an acylated indole derivative wherein the 3 position of the indole skeleton is substituted by a substituted or unsubstitu ted phenyl group, and its l position is substituted by an alkyl or substituted alkyl group branched by an a carbon atom. ret another object of this invention is to provide a pharmaceutical composition having the ability to inhibit platelet aggregation with a reduced tendency to induce ulcer formation. A further object of this invention is to provide a pharmaceutical composition having the ability to inhibit platelet aggregation with a biologically accep table low level of various side effects such as toxicity in single and continual administration, influences on the components which make up the blood, influences on various organs, and tendency toward ulcer formation. Other objects and advantages of this invention will become apparent from the following description. According to one aspect of this invention, these objects and advantages of this invention are achieved by acylated indole derivatives of the general formulaEMI4.1 wherein R1 represents a hydrogen atom or a lower alkyl group, R2 represents a lower alkyl group, R represents a hydrogen stom or a lower alkyl group, R4 repreeants a hydrogen atom, a hydroxyl group, a halogen atom, a lower alkyl group or a lower alkoxy group, Z represents a phenyl or thienyl group or a phenyl or thienyl group substituted by the group R4, Y represents a bond, . O , SP 0 or SO2 , A represents a hydrogen atom, a lower alkyl group, a lower acyl group, a phenyl group, a phenylgroup, a 5 or 6 membered heterocyclic group containing an oxygen, sulfur or nitrogen atom,Or a phenyl, phenmylalkyl or heterocyclie group enbstitnted by the group R4, and n is O or an integer of 1 to 10 provided that when n is 0,Y represents a bond and A represents a lower acyl group and the optically active isomers or salts thereof. The acylated indole derivatives of formula I provided by the present invention are structurally characterized by the fact that the 3 position of the indole skeleton is substituted by a substituted or unsubstituted benzoyl or thenoyl group and its l position is substituted by an unsubstituted or substituted alkyl group branched by an a carbon atom. In the above formula CI3, R1 represents a hydrogen atom or a lower alkyl group R2, a lower alkyl group R3, a hydrogen atom or a lower alkyl group and 4R , a hydrogen atom, a hydroxyl group, a halogen atom, a lower alkyl group or a lower alkoxy group. Unless otherwise specified, it should be understood that the lower alkyl groups for RÚ, Rê, R and R4 are alkyl groupe havlng 1 to 6 carbon atoms.These lower alkyl groups may be linear or branched, and include, for example, methyl, ethyl, n propyl, isopropyl, n butyl, iso butyl, sec butyl, n pentyl, and n haxyl. The balogen atoms for R4 are fluorinc, chlorine, bromine, and iodine. The lower alkoxy groups mean alkoxy groups having 1 to 6 carbon atoms, preferably 1 to 4 carbon atoms. Examples include methoxy, ethoxy, n propoxy, iso propoxy, n butoxy, n pentoxy, and n hexoxy. R1 is preferably hydrogen, methyl, ethyl, npropyl, or iso propyl, especially the methyl. R2 is preferably an alkyl group having 1 to 3 carbon atoms, i.e. methyl, ethyl, n propyl or iso propyl, especially the methyl, ethyl or n propyl. R3 is preferably hydrogen or methyl, especially the hydrogen. is is preferably hydrogen, hydroxyl, chloro, methyl or methoxy. Z in formula I represents a phenyl or thienyl group optionally substituted by R4 d As the thienyl or substituted thienyl group, 2 thienyl or substituted 2thienyl are preferred. As the substituted phenyl or substituted thienyl, mono substituted phenyl or thienyl is preferred. Examples of the group Z include phenyl, 2thienyl, o fluorophenyl, p fluorophenyl, o chlorophenyl, m chlorophenyl, p chlorophenyl, o tolyl, m tolyl, ptolyl, o methoxyphenyl, p methoxyphenyl, p hydroxyphenyl, 3 chloro 2 thienyl, 4 fluoro 2 thienyl, 5 methyl 2thienyl, and 4 methoxy 2 thienyl. Preferred groups Z are phenyl, 2 thienyl and substituted phenyl. Phenyl and 2 thienyl are especially preferred, and phenyl is most preferred. In formula tI3, Y represents a bond, O , S , SO or SO2 . A in formula 1 represents a hydrogen atom, a lower alkyl group, a lower acyl group, a phenyl group, a phenylalkyl group, a 5 or 6 membered heterocyclic group containing an oxygen, sulfur or nitrogen atom, or a phenyl, phenylalkyl or 5 or 6 membered 0 , S or Ncontaining heterocyclic group substituted by the group R4. The lower alkyl group is defined and exemplified hereinabove with regard to R1 through R4. The lower acyl group is an acyl group having 1 to 6 carbon atoms, preferably 1 to 3 carbon atoms, and includes, for example, formyl, acetyl, n propanoyl, nbutanoyl, iso butanoyl, n pentanoyl, or n hexanoyl. Examples of the phenylalkyl group are benzyl, a phenethyl, 3 phenethyl, and Y phenylpropyl. Benzyl and 3 phenethyl are preferred. Examples of the 5 or 6 membered heterocyclic group containing an oxygen, sulfur or nitrogen atom include oxygen containing heterocyclic groups such as furyl, pyranyl or l,3 dioxolane sulfur containing heterocyclic groups such as thienyl, tetrahydrothienyl or thiane nitrogen containing heterocyclic groups such as pyrrolyl, pyrrolidinyl, pyridinyl, piperidinyl, pyrazolyl, imidazolyl, pyrazinyl, pyrimidinyl or pyridazinyl oxygen and nitrogen containing heterocyclic groups such as oxazolyl, iso oxazolyl, furazonyl or morpholinyl, and sulfur and nitrogen containing heterocyclic groups such as thiazolyl, iso thiazolyl, thiadiazolyl or thiamorpholinyl. The phenyl, phenylalkyl or heterocyclic group may be substituted by the group R4 defined hereinabove. In formula cI3, n represents zero or an integer of 1 to 10, preferably zero or an integer of 1 to 3, provided that n is zero only when Y represents a bond and A represents a lower acyl group. Examples of the acylated indole derivatives of formula I are given below For convenience, they are classified by the definition of Y in formula I . Compounds wherein Y is an oxygen atom 100 3 Benzoyl l 1 hydroxy 2 propyl 2 methylindole 101 3 Benzoyl 1 1 hydroxy 2 butyl 2 methylindol 102 3 Benzoyl l l hydroxy 2 hexyl 2 methylindole 103 3 Benzoyl l l hydroxy 2 octyl 2 methylindole 104 3 Benzoyl l 3 hydroxy 2 butyl 2 methylindole 105 3 Benzoyl l 4 hydroxy 2 butyl 2 me thylindo le 106 3 Benzoyl l l hydroxy 3 pentyl 2 methylindole 107 3 Benzoyl l 6 hydroxy 2 hexyl 2 methylindole 108 3 Benzoyl l 7 hydroxy 2 heptyl 2 methylindole 109 3 3enzoyl 1 9 hydroxy 2 nonyl 2 methylindole 110 3 Benzoyl l ll hydroxy 2 undecyl 2 methyl indole 111 3 Benzoyl 1 1 hydroxy 2 propyl indole 112 3 Benzoyl 1 4 hydroxy 2 butyl indole 113 3 Benzoyl 5 chloro 1 1 hydroxy 2 propyl 2 methylindole 114 3 Benzoyl l l hydroxy 2 propyl 2, 5 dimethyl indole 115 3 Benzoyl 5 chloro 1 4 hydroxy 2 butyl 2 methylindole 116 3 Benzoyl 1 1 hydroxy 2 propyl 5 methoxy 2 methylindole 117 3 Benzoiyl 5 hydroxy 1 1 hydroxy 2 propyl 2 methylindo le 118 3 Benzoyl 4 hydroxy 2 butyl 5 methoxy 2 methylindole 119 3 Benzoyl l l hydroxy 2 propyl 2 isopropyl indole 120 3 Benzoyl 1 6 hydroxy 2 hexyl 2 isopropyl indole 121 3 Benzoyl 5 chloro 1 1 hydroxy 2 propyl indole 122 3 Benzoyl 1 4 hydroxy 2 butyl 2 isopropyl 5 methylindole 123 3 p Chlorobenzoyl 1 1 hydroxy 2 propyl 2 methylindo le 124 3 o Chlorobenzoyl 1 4 hydroxy 2 butyl 2 methylindole 125 3 o Fluorobenzoyl 1 4 hydroxy 2 butyl 2 methylindole 126 1 1 Hydroxy 2 propyl 2 methyl 3 o tolyl indole 127 1 1 Hydroxy 2 propyl 2 methyl 3 2 thenoyl indole 128 5 Chloro 1 1 hydroxy 2 propyl 2 methyl 3 2 thenoyl indone 129 3 4 Chloro 2 thenoyl 1 1 hydroxy 2 propyl 2 me thylindole 130 5 Chloro 3 p fluorobenzoyl 1 1 hydroxy 2 propyl 2 methylindole 131 3 Benzoyl 5 bromo 1 1 hydroxy 2 propyl 2 methylindo le 132 3 Benzoyl 5 fluoro 1 4 hydroxh 2 butyl 2 methylindole 133 1 4 Hydroxy 2 butyl 2 methyl 3 m tolyl carboxyl indole 134 3 m Fluorobenzoyl l l hydroxy 2 propyl 2 methylindole 135 3 Benzoyl 1 1 hydroxy 2 R propyl 2 methyl indole 136 3 Benzoyl 1 1 hydroxy 2 S propyl 2 methyl indole 137 3 Benzoyl 1 4 hydroxyh 2 butyl 2,5 dimethyl indole 200 1 1 Acetoxy 2 propyl 3 benzoyl 2 melthylindole 201 l 4 Acetoxy 2 butyl 3 benzoyl 2 methylindole 202 1 1 Acetoxy 2 propyl 3 benzoylindole 203 1 4 Acetoxy 2 butyl 3 benzoyl 2 isopropyl indole 204 1 1 Acetoxy 3 pentyl 3 benzoyl 2 methylindole 205 1 1 Acetoxy 2 butyl 3 benzyl 2 methylindole 206 1 1 Acetoxy 2 hexyl 3 benzoyl 2 methylindole 207 1 1 Acetoxy 2 octyl 3 benzoyl 2 methylindole 208 1 1 Acetoxy 2 propyl 2 methyl 3 thenoylindole 209 3 Benzoyl l l formyloy 2 propyl 2 methyl indole 210 3 Benzoyl 2 methyl 1 4 propanoyl 2 butyl indole 211 1 1 Acetoxy 2 propyl 3 benzoyl 5 chloro 2 methylindole 212 1 4 Acetoxy 2 butyl 3 benzoyl 2,5 dimethyl indole 213 1 1 Acetoxy 2 propyl 5 chloro 2 methyl 3 p to Lylcarbonyl indole 214 1 4 Acetoxy 2 butyl 3 benzoyl 5 methoxy 2 methylindo le 215 1 l Acetoxy 2 propyl 3 benzoyl 5 methoxy 2 methylindole 216 1 1 Acetoxy 2 propyl 3 p chlorobenzoyl 5 me thoxy 2 methylindole 217 1 1 Acetoxy 2 R propyl 3 benzoyl 2 methyl indole 218 1 1 Acetoxy 2 S propyl 3 benzoyl 2 methyl indole 219 1 1 Acetoxy 2 propyl 3 benzoyl 5 methoxy 2 .methylindole 300 3 Benzoyl 1 1 methoxy 2 propyl 2 methylindole 301 3 Benzoyl 1 1 methoxy 2 propyl indole 302 3 Benzoyl l l ethoxy 2 propyl 2 methylindole 303 3 Benzoyl 1 1 methoxy 2 propyl 2 isopropyl indole 304 3 Benzoyl 5 chloro 1 1 methoxy 2 propyl 2 methylindole 305 3 Benzoyl 1 1 isopropoxy 2 propyl 2 methyl indole 306 3 Benzoyl 1 4 methoxy 2 butyl 2 methylindole 307 3 Benzoyl 1 4 ethoxy 2 butyl 2 methylindole 308 3 Benzoyl 1 4 ethoxy 2 butyl 5 methoxy 2 methylindole 309 1 4 Ethoxy 2 butyl 2 methyl 3 p tolyl carboxyl indole 310 3 Benzoyl 1 4 methoxy 2 butyl 2,5 dimethyl indole 311 3 Benzoyl l l methoxy 2 butyl 2 methylindole 312 3 Benzoyl 1 1 ethoxy 2 butyl 2 methylindole 313 3 Benzoyl 1 1 benzyloxy 2 butyl 2 methyl indole 314 3 Benzoyl 5 methoxy 1 91 methoxy 2 butyl 2 methylindole 315 1 1 methoxy 2 propyl 2 methyl 3 thenoylindole 316 3 p chlorobenzoyl 1 1 methoxy 2 butyl 2 methylindole 317 3 p Chlorobenzoyl 1 1 methoxy 2 propyl 2 methylindole 318 3 Benzoyl 5 methoxy 1 1 methoxy 2 propyl 2 methylindole 319 3 Benzoyl 1 1 methoxy 3 pentyl 2 methylindole 320 3 Benzoyl 1 1 ethoxy 3 pentyl 2 methylindone 321 3 Benzoyl 5 chloro 1 1 methoxy 3 pentyl 2 methylindole 322 3 Benzoyl 2 methyl 1 1 alpha phenethyl 2 pentyl indole 323 3 Benzoyl l C l ethoxy 2 pentyl 5 hydroxy 2 methylindole 324 3 Benzoyl l l butoxy 2 pentyl 2 methylindole 325 3 Benzoyl l l heptyloxy 2 propyl 2 methyl indole 326 3 Benzoyl l 4 hexyloxy 2 butyl 2 methylindole 327 3 Benzoyl 1 7 methoxy 2 heptyl 2 methylindole 328 3 Benzoyl 1 7 ethoxy 2 heptyl 2 methylindole 329 3 Benzoyl l ll methoxy 2 undecyl 2 methyl indole 330 3 Benzoyl l ll ethoxy 2 undecyl 2 meth indole 331 RTI ID 11.7 3 Benzoyl 2 methyl l 7 propoxy 2 heptyl indole 332 1 11 Benzyloxy 2 undecyl 3 benzoyl 2methyl indole 333 3 Benzoyl l l ethoxy 2 hexyl 2 methylindole 334 3 Benzoyl l l methoxy 2 hexyl 2 methylindole 335 3 Benzoyl 1 1 methoxy 2 octyl 2 methylindole 336 3 Benzoyl l l ethoxy 2 octyl 2 methylindole 337 3 Benzogl 2 methyl l l propoxy 2 octyl indole 338 3 Benzoyl 5 chloro 1 1 methoxy 2 hexyl 2 methylindole 339 3 Benzoyl 1 1 methoxy 2 propyl 2,5 dimethyl indole 340 3 Benzoyl l C 4 ethoxy 2 butyl 2, 5 dimethyl indole 341 3 Benzoyl 5 bromo l l ethoxy 2 propyl 2 methylindole 342 3 p Methoxybenzoyl l l methoxy 2 propyl 2 methylindole 343 3 Benzoyl 1 1 o chlorobenzyloxy 2 propyl 2 methylindole 344 3 Benzoyl l 4 ethoxy 2 butyl 5 fluoro 2 methylindole 345 3 o Chloro benzoyl 1 4 methoxy 2 butyl 2 methylindole 346 3 Benzoyl 1 1 methoxy 2 R propyl 2 methyl indole 347 3 Benzoyl 1 1 methoxy 2 S ppropyl 2 methyl indole 348 3 Benzoyl 2 methyl 1 1 phenoxy 2 propyl indole 349 3 Benzoyl 2 methyl 1 94 phenoxy 2 butyl indole 350 3 Benzoyl 1 1 p chlorophenoxy 2 butyl 2 methylindole 351 3 Benzoyl 1 1 p methoxyphenoxy 2 propyl 2 me thylindole 352 3 Benzoyl 5 methoxy 1 1 p methoxyphenoxy 2 propyl 2 methylindole Compounds wherein Y is S , SO or SO2 400 3 Benzoyl 1 1 ethylthio 2 propyl 2 methyl indole 401 3 Benzoyl 2methyl 1 1 phenylthio 2 propyl indole 402 3 Benzoyl 2 methyl 1 1 methylthio 2 propyl indole 403 3 Benzoyl 1 1 isopropylthio 2 propyl 2 methylindole 404 3 Benzoyl 2 methyl 1 1 4 pyridylthio 2 propyl indole 405 3 Benzoyl 2 methyl 1 1 2 pyridylthio 2 propyllindole 406 1 1 Benzylthio 2 propyl 3 benzoyl 2 methyl indole 407 3 Benzoyl 2 methyl 1 1 5 methyl 1,3,5 thio diazol 2 ylthio propyl indole 408 3 Benzoyl 1 1 2 imidazolylthio propyl 2 methylindole 409 3 Benzoyl 1 4 ethylthio 2 hbutyl 2 methyl indole 410 3 Benzoyl 2 methyl 1 4 phenylthio 2 butyl indole 411 3 Benzoyl 2 methyl 1 4 methylthio 2 butyl indole 412 3 Benzoyl 1 4 butylthio 2 butyl 2 methyl indole 413 3 Benzoyl 2 methyl 1 4 4 pyridylthio 2 butylzindole 414 3 Benzoyl 2 methyl 1 4 2 pyridylthio 2 butylgindole 415 3 Benzoyl 2 methyl 1 4 alpha phenethylthio 2 butyl indole 416 l 4 Acetylthio 2 butyl 3 benzoyl 2 methyl indole 417 3 Benzoyl 1 l ethylthio 2 butyl 2 methyl indole 418 3 Benzoyl 2 methyl 1 1 phenylthio 2 butyl indole 419 3 Benzoyl 2 methyl 1 1 methylthio 2 butyl indole 420 3 Benzoyl 2 methyl 1 1 4 pyridylthio 2 butyldindole 421 3 Benzoyl 2 methyl 1 1 2 pyridylthio 2 butylzindole 422 3 Benzoyl 1 1 mercapto 2 propyl 2 methyl indole 423 3 Benzoyl 1 4 mercapto 2 butyl 2 methylindole 424 3 Benzoyl 1 1 mercapto 2 butyl 2 methylindole 425 3 Benzoyl l l ethylthio 3 pentyl 2 methyl indole 426 3 Benzoyl 2 methyl 1 7 phenylthio 2 heptyl indole 427 3 Benzoyl 5 chloro 2 methyl 1 1 methylthio 2 propyl indole 428 3 Benzoyl 1 4 ethylthio 2 butyl 5 methoxy 2 methylindole 500 3 Benzoyl 1 1 ethanesulfinyl 2 propyl 2 methylindole 501 1 1 Benzenesulfinyl 2 propyl 3 benzoyl 2 methylindole 502 3 Benzoyl 1 1 methanesulfinyl 2 propyl 2 methylindole 503 30Benzoyl 2 methyl l 1 4 pyridinesulfinyl 2 propyl indole 504 3 Benzoyl 2 methyl 1 1 2 pyridinesulfinyl 2 propyl indole 505 3 Benzoyl 1 4 ethanesulfinyl 2 butyl 2 methylindole 506 3 Benzoyl 1 4 methanesulfinyl 2 butyl 2 methylindole 507 1 4 Benzenesulfinyl 2 butyl 3 benzoyl 2 methylindole 508 3 Benzoyl 2 methyl 1 4 4 pyridinesulfinyl 2 butyl 3 indole 509 3 Benzoyl 2 methyl 1 4 2 pyridinesulfinyl 2 butyl 3 indol e 510 3 Benzoyl 1 1 ethanesulfinyl 2 butyl 2 methylindole 511 1 1 Benzenesulfinyl 2 butyl 3 benzoyl 2 methylindole 512 3 Benzoyl 2 methyl 1 1 4 pyridinesulfinyl 2 butyl3 indole 513 3 Benzoyl 2 methyl 1 1 2 pyridinesulfonyl 2 butyl indole 514 3 Benzoyl 1 1 methanesulfinyl 2 butyl 2 methylindole 600 3 Benzoyl 1 1 ethanesulfonyl 2 propyl 2 methyliudole 601 1 1 Benzenesuflonyl 2 propyl 3 benzoyl 2 methylindole 602 3 Benzoyl l l ethanesulfonyl 2 propyl methylindole 603 3 Benzoyl 2 methyl 1 1 4 pyridinesulfonyl 2 propylgindole 604 3 Benzoyl 2 methyl 1 1 2 pyridinesulfonyl 2 propyl indole 605 3 Benzoyl 1 4 ethanesulfonyl 2 butyl 2 methyl indole 606 3 Benzoyl 1 4 methanesulfonyl 2 butyl 2 methylindole 607 1 4 Benzenesülfonyl 2 butyl 3 benzoyl 2 methylindole 608 3 Benzoyl 2 methyl 1 4 4 pyridinesulfonyl 2 butylzindole 609 3 Benzoyl 2 methyl 1 4 2 pyridinesulfonyl 2 butylzindole 610 3 Benzoyl 1 1 ethanesulfonyl 2 butyl 2 methylindole 611 1 1 Benzenesulfonyl 2 butyl 3 benzoyl 2 methylindole 612 3 Benzoyl 2 methyl 1 1 4 pyridinesulfonyl 2 butylDindole 613 3 Benzoyl 2 methyl 1 1 2 pyridinesulfonyl 2 butyl indole 614 3 Benzoyl 1 1 methanesulfonyl 2 butyl 2 methylindole Compounds herein Y represents a bond 700 3 Benzoyl l isopropyl 2 methylindole 701 3 Benzoyl l 2 butyl 2 methylindole 702 3 Benzoyl 2 methyl 1 1 methyl 2 propyl indole 703 3 Benzoyl 2 methyl 1 92 pentyl ibndole 704 3 Benzoyl 2 methyl l 3 pentyl indole 705 3 Benzoyl 1 2 hexyl 2 methylindole 706 3 Benzoyl l 2 heptyl 2 methylindole 707 3 Benzoyl 2 methyl 1 2 octyl indole 708 3 Benzoyl 2 methyl 1 2 undecyl indole 709 3 Benzoyl l a phenethyl 2 methylindole 800 3 Benzoyl 2 methyl 1 3 oxo 2 butyl indole 801 3 Benzoyl 2 methyl 1 4 oxo 2 pentyl indole 802 3 Benzoyl 2 methyl 1 3 oxo 2 pentyl indole 8o 3 Benzoyl 2 methyl 1 5 oxo 3 hexyl indoleC 805 3 Benzoyl l l formyl l ethyl 2 methylindole 806 3 Benzoyl 1 1 formyl 2 propyl 2 methylindole 807 3 Benzoyl 1 1 f9ormylpropyl 2 methylindole 808 3 Benzoyl 1 1 formyl 2 butyl 2 methylindole Of the 3 acylated indole derivatives of formula I provided by this invention, those of the following formulaEMI16.1 wherein R21 represents an alkyl group having 1 to 3 carbon atoms, two groups R4 are identical or different and each represents a hydrogen atom, a hydroxyl group, a halogen atom, a lower alkyl group or a lower alkoxy group, Y represents a bond, 0 , S , So or S02 , A represents a hydrogen atom, a lower alkyl group, a lower acyl group, a phenyl group, a phenylalkyl group, a 5 or 6membered heterocyclic group containing an oxygen, sulfur or nitrogen atom, or a phenyl, phenylalkyl or 5 or 6 membered 0 , S or Ncontaining heterocyclic group substituted by the group R, and m is zero or an integer of 1 to 3 provided that when m is zero, Y represents a bond and A represent a lower acyl group, and the optically active isomers or salts thereof especially those of the following formulaEMI17.1 wherein R41 represents a hydrogen atom, a hydroxyl group, a chlorine atom, a methyl group or a methoxy group, Y is as defined with regard to formula I l, A1 represents a hydrogen atom, an alkyl group having 1 to 4 carbon atoms, an acyl group having 1 to 4 carbon atoms, a phenyl group, or a 5 or 6 membered heterocyclic group containing an oxygen, sulfur or nitrogen atom, and is 0, 1 or 2 provided that when is 0, Y represents a bond and A represents a lower acyl group, and the optically active isomers or salts thereof have biological activities, particularly the ability to inhibit platelet aggregation, and therefore, are provided by this invention as preferred compounds. In the acylated indole derivatives of formula wiz including formulae I Ú and I 2, the substituent at the l position.is branched at the a position, and therefore when the group R2 or R21 or cH3 differs from the group CH n Y A or CH2 m Y A or CH2 Y 1Ú , the carbon atom at the alpha position becomes an asymmetic carbon atom. Accordingly, the above formula I also encompasses optically active isomers with respect to the carbon atom at the alpha position. The acylated indole derivatives of formula CI3 including formulae I3 l and C1 2 can form salts with 4 basic compounds when the substituent R4 is a hydroxyl group, and cap form acid addition salts with acids when the substituent A is a nitrogen containing heterocyclic group such as pyridyl. Examples of such basic compounds include hydroxides, carbonate and hydrogen carbonates of alkali metals such as lithium, sodium and potasium or alkaline earth metals such as calcium and magnesium. They also include ammonia, primary, secondary or tertiary amines such as methylamine, ethylamine, butylamine, dimethylamine, di ethyl amine, cyclohexylmethyl amine, triethylamine and pyridine, and quaternary ammonium hydroxides such as tetramethyl ammonium hydroxide. Examples of the acids include mineral acids such as hydrochloric acid, hydrobromic acid, sulfuric acid and phosphoric acid, organic carboxylic acids such as acetic acid, propionic acid, oxalic acid, mandelic acid, maleic acid, fumaric acid, lactic acid and glutamic acid, and organic sulfonic acids such as methanesulfonic acid, ethanesulfonic acid, benzenesulfonic acid, p toluenesulfonic acid and cumylsulfonic acid. According to this invention, compounds of formula Wiz can be produced in the following manner. A Compounds of formula I wherein Y is an oxygen atom a Compounds of general formula tI wherein Y is an oxygen atom and A is a hydrogen atom or a lower acyl group can be produced in accordance with ReactionSchemes 1 to 4 below. b Compounds of general formula I wherein Y is an oxygen atom, A is a lower alkyl group, a phenylalkyl group or a phenyl alkyl group substituted by R can be produced in accordance with Reaction Schemes 5 to 8 below. c Compounds of general formula I wherein Y is an oxygen atom, and.A is a phenyl group, a phenyl group 4 substituted by R , or a heterocyclic group containing an oxygen, sulfur or nitrogen atom which is unsubstituted or substituted by R4 can be produced in accordance with Reaction Scheme 9 below. These reactions are described below. a Production of compounds of general formula I wherein Y is an oxygen atom and A is a hydrogen atom or a lower acyl group in accordance with ReactionSchemes 1 to 4 EMI20.1 EMI21.1 EMI22.1 EMI23.1 EMI24.1 EMI25.1 EMI26.1 Reaction Scheme 4 As shown in the above Reaction Schemes 1 to 4, the compounds of general formula I wherein Y is an oxygen atom and A is a lower acyl group 21, 31, 35, 46 can be produced by condensing the corresponding l wacyloxyalkyl 3 unsubstituted indoles 20, 30 with acid anhydrides of formula IIII in the presence of hydrogen iodine Reaction Schemes 1 and 2 or condensing the corresponding 1 acyloxyalkyl 3 unsubstituted tetrahydroindoles 35, 46 with the acid anhydries of formula III in the presence of hydrogen iodide, and then dehydrogenating the condensation product ReactionSchemes 3 and 4 . The compounds of general formula cID whereinY is an oxygen atom and A is a hydrogen atom 22, 32, 36, 47 are produced by hydrolyzing the compounds 21, 31, 35, 46 produced by the aforesaid acylation reaction using the acid anhydrides. The acylation reaction with the acid anhydrides of formula III constitutes one aspect of the process of this invention. a l Reaction Scheme 1 According to Reaction Scheme 1, the acylation reaction using acid anhydrides is carried out by condensing a l w lower acyloxyalkyl 3 unsubstituted indole of the following formula 20EMI27.1 wherein R1 represents a hydrogen atom or a lower alkyl group, R2 represents a lower alkyl, R3 represents a hydrogen atom or a lower alkyl group, R42 represents a hydrogen atom, a halogen atom, a lower alkyl group or a lower alkoxy group, and n is an integer of 1 to 10, with an acid anhydride of the following formula III EMI28.1 wherein represents a phenyl or thienyl group or a phenyl or thienyl group, sub stituted by R42 or a protected hydroxyl group, in the presence of hydrogen iodide to give a 3 acyl 1 lower acyloxyalkyl indole of the following formula 21EMI28.2 wherein R11 Rê, R3, n and Z1 are as defined R above, and R represents a hydrogen atom, a hydroxy group, a halogen atom, a lower alkyl group or a lower alkoxy group. Usually, the condensation reaction is carried out by heating 1 mole of the l w lower acyloxyalkyl S unsubstituted indole of formula 20 and about 0.5 to about 10 moles, preferably about 1 to about 5 moles of the acid anhydride of formula III in the presence or absence of an inert organic solvent in the presence of about 0.001 to about 2 moles, preferably about 0.01 to about 0.5 mole, of hydrogen iodide at a temperatureXof about 50 to about 180 c, preferably about 80 C to about 150 C. When the starting compounds are melted at the reaction temperature, the inert organic solvent is generally not absolutely required. From the standpoint of after treatment, such a solvent should better be not used in such a case. Suitable solvents are aprotic inert organic solvents, for example haloalkanes such as carbon tetrachloride, chloroform, and tetrachloroethane, and aromatic hydrocarbon solvents such as nitrobenzene, chlorobenzene, toluene and xylene. The reaction can usually be monitored by thinlayer chromatography, The reaction is completed usually in 10 minutes to 24 hours. In most cases, it comes to an end in about 20 minutes to about 3 hours. According to the acylation reaction, the 3position of the indole skeleton of the compound of formula 20 is acylated, and when the group R42 in the starting compound of formula 20 is a lower alkoxy group, a reaction may sometimes take place which induces the conversion of the group R42 into a hydroxgl group by the effect of hydrogen iodide. The final desired product can be isolated from the. resulting reaction mixture and purified usually by dissolving it in a water insoluble, good solvent for the final product, such as ethyl acetate, ether, chloroform, methylene chloride or benzene, then washing the solution successively with water, a saturated aqueous solution of sodium bicarbonate, water, and a saturated aqueous solution of sodium chloride, drying the washed product over anhydrous sodium sulfate, concentrating the product and chromatographing the resulting crude product on a column of silica gel carrier. Thus, the 3 acyl l w lower acyloxyalkyl indole of formula 21 is isolated in pure form. According to Reaction Scheme 1, the 3 acyl l lower acloxyalkyl indole of formula 21 obtained by the above described acylation reaction may be hydrolyzed to give a 3 acyl 1 hydroxyalkyl indole of the following formula 22EMI30.1 wherein R11 R2, R3, R4 and n are as defined above and Z represents phenyl or thienyl optionally substituted by R . This hydrolysis reaction can be applied to the reaction mixture obtained by the above acylation reaction, the crude pmduct obtained by treating it, or to the final purified product. When it is to be applied to the reaction mixture, the reaction mixture is dissolved in an organic solvent such as ethanol, methanol, tetrahydrofuran or dioxane when the reaction mixture contains a reaction solvent, the solvent is distilled off as much as possible beforehand . Then, an aqueous alkali solution such an aqueous solution of sodium hydroxide or potassium hydroxide is added in an amount slightly excessive with respect to a protective group to be removed by hydrolysis, the remaining acid anhyride and a carboxylic acid formed as a by product in the reaction. The mixture is then stirred at room temperature or optionally at an elevated temperature for 1 to several hours. After performing the hydrolysis in the above manner, the solvent in the reaction system is distilled off, and the residue is subjected to the same isolation and purifying procedure as described above for the 3 acyl l u lower acyloxyalkyl indole to obtain the 3 acyll w hydroxylalkyl indole of formula 22 in pure form. When the hydrolysis reaction is to be applied to the crude product or purified product, the operation of removing the reaction solvent is omitted, and otherwise, the same operation as above can be performed. According to the above hydrolysis reaction, the acyl group in the to acyloxyalkyl group is removed, and when the substituent which may be at Z is a protected hydroxyl group, i.e. an acyloxy group such as acetyloxy, formyloxy or benzoyloxy, this acyl group is usually removed together. Accordingly, the compound of formula 22 is prepared from the compound of formula 21. Thus, according to Reaction Scheme 1, 3 acylated indole derivatives of formulae 21 and 22 which fall within the formula 1 can be obtained which are structurally characterized by the fact that a carbon atom directly bonded to the a carbon atom in the substituent at the l position, i.e. the carbon atom, forms a methylene group CH2 having two hydrogen atoms. The 1 C w acyloxyalkyl 3 unsubstituted indo le 20 used in the acylation reaction in Reaction Scheme 1 can be produced in the following manner. A l Calkoxycarbonylmethyl indole of formula 12 is prepared by reacting an indole 10 commercially available, or can be prepared by the Fisher s indole synthesizing method in formula 10, R1 and R42 are as defined hereinabove with an a halocarboxylic acid ester 11 wherein X represents a halogen atom such as chlorine, bromine or iodine, R5 represents a lower alkyl group having 1 to 4 carbon atoms, and R2 is as defined hereinabove in the presence of an acid acceptor such as sodium hydride or potassium hydride in an inert organic solvent at a temperature between 200C to the refluxing temperature of the reaction system. Examples of suitable inert organic solvents used in the above condensation reaction are benzene, toluene, xylene, ethylene glycol dimethyl ether, diether, dioxane, tetrahydrofuran THF , dimethylformamide DNF , dimethylsulfoxide DMSO , and hexame thylpho sphoramide HMPA . The resulting compound of formula 12 is then reduced with lithium aluminum hydride in an inert solvent to form a l hydroxyethyl indole. Diethyl ether and mF are preferred as the inert solvent. The reaction is carried our for about 10 minutes to several hours at a temperature between 20 C and the refluxing temperature of the reaction system. The resulting compound of formula 13 is directly reacted with a halogenating agent such as phosphorus tribromide, thionyl chloride, thionyl bromide or hydrobromic acid, or with carbon tetrabromide in the presence of triphenylphosphine to produce a l haloethyl indole of formula 14. Each of these reactions is carried out in an inert organic solvent such as diethyl ether, THF, benzene, dichloromethane or chlorform, and is terminated in about 30 minutes to 24 hours by performing it at the same temperature as used in the aforesaid reducing reaction. The resulting compound of formula 14 is then converted to a Grignard reagent, and then reacted with a protected derivative of an hydrox yalkyl halide of formula 16 wherein R6 is a group capable of being easily removed by acid hydrolysis, such as tetrahydropyranyl, ethoxyethyl, methoxymethyl or t butyldimethylsilyl in the presence of a cuprous ion in a solvent such as diethyl ether or THF at 780C to room temperature for about 1 to about 24 hours. Or the compound of formula 14 is reacted with a Grignard reagent of formula 17 under the same reaction conditions as above. As a result, a lw protected hydroxyalkyl indole of formula 18 is obtained. The resulting compound of formula 18 is then deprotected by an acid such as hydrochloric acid, sulfuric acid, acetic acid or oxalic acid to be converted to a l u hydroxyalkyl indole of formula 19.Such a deprotection itself is well known. The resulting l hydroxyethyl indole of formula or or l w hydroxyalkyl indole of formula 19 is condensed with a lower monocarboxylic acid anhydride in pyridine to form a l lower acyloxyethyl indole from the compound of formula 13, and a l w lower acyloxyalkyl indole from the comoun compound of formula 19. These products are inclusively represented by formula 20. a 2 Reaction Scheme 2 According to Reaction Scheme 2, the acylation reaction using the acid anhydride III which constitutes one aspect of this invention is carried out by condensing a 1 w lower acyloxyalkyl 3 unsuhstituted indole expressed by the following formula 30EMI33.1 wherein R1 R2, R3, R42 and n are as defined hereinabove, with the acid anhydride of formula III in the presence of hydrogen iodide to give a 3 acyl 1 lower acyloxyalkyl indole of the following formula 31 EMI34.1 wherein all symbols are as defined above. This acylation reaction is carried out under the same reaction conditions as described hereinabove with respect to Reaction Scheme 1, and the final product is obtained by the same isolating and purifying operation as described hereinabove. According to Reaction Scheme 2, hydrolysis of the compound of formula 31 obtained by the aforesaid acylation reaction gives a 3 acyl l w hydroxyalkyl indole of the following formula 32EMI34.2 wherein all symbols are as defined herein above. This hydrolysis reaction is carried out under the same reaction conditions as described above in regard to Reaction Scheme 1, and the final product is obtained by the same isolating and purifying preperation. According to Reaction Scheme 2, 3 acylated indole derivatives of formula 31 or 32 which is embraced within formula I are obtained which are structurally characterized by the fact the carbon atom at the position in the substituent at the l position is a methylene group. The 1 acyloxyalkyl 3 unsubstituted indole 30 used in the acylation in Reaction Scheme 2 can be prepared in the following manner. The indole 10 is reacted with an a,,3 unsatura ted carboxylic acid ester of formula 23 wherein R2, R3 and R5 are as defined above in an inert organic solvent in the presence of, as a catalyst, a basic compound such as sodium hydride, sodium methoxide, sodium ethoxide, potassium hydride, potassium t butoxide, or potassium carbonate at a temperature of from 200C to the refluxing temperature of the reaction system to give a l alkoxycarbonylethyl indole of formula 24. This reaction is known as the Michael s addition reaction. The same solvent as used in the reaction of the compounds of formula 10 and 11 above can be used as the inert solvent in this reaction. The resulting compound of formula 24 is then reduced with lithium aluminum hydride to give a l hydro xypropyl indole of formula 25. The compound of formula 25 is halogenated to a compound of formula 26 which is then converted to a compound of formula 27 with or without going through a compound of formula 28 by the Grignard reaction. Deprotection of the compound of formula 27 gives a 1 u hydroxyalkyl indole of formula 9. The resulting compound of formula 25 or 29 is then condensed with a lower monocarboxylic acid anhydride in pyridine to give a l lower acyloxypropyl indole from the compound of formula 25 or a l w lower acyloxyalkyl indole from the compound of formula 29. These products are inclusively represented by formula 30. A series of the above reactiqns for preparing the compound of formula 30 from the compound of formula 24 are performed under the same conditions as in a series of the corresponding reactions described with regard toReaction Scheme 1. 3 3 Reaction Scheme 3 According to Reaction Scheme 3, the acylation reaction using the acid anhydride III which constitutes one aspect of this invention is carried out by condensing a tetrahydroindole derivative of the following formula 35EMI36.1 wherein RÚ, R2, R3 R42 and n are as defined hereinabove, with the acid anhydride of formula tIII in the presence of hydrogen iodide to give a 3 acyl 1 w lower acyloxyalkyl tetrahydroindole of the following formula 36EMI36.2 wherein R1 R2 R3 R4, n and Z1 are as defined hereinabove. This acylation reaction is performed under the same conditions for theXacylation of l w lower acyloxyalkyl 3 unsubstituted indoles described hereinabove with regard to Reaction Scheme 1, and the final product of formula 36 is obtained by the same isolating and purifying operation. According to Reaction Scheme 3, the isolated compound of formula 36 is then dehydrogenated to give a 3 acyl l iu lower acyloxyalkyl indole of the following formula 57 EMI37.1 4 wherein R2 R2, R4, R , n and Z1 are as defined hereinabove. This dehydrogenation reaction is carried out in an inert organic solvent usually at a temperature of 0 C to the refluxing temperature of the reaction system usually for 30 minutes to 72 hours using about 2 to about 10 moles of a dehydrogenating agent such as 2,3dichloro 5,6 dicyano p beznoquinone DDQ , 2,3,5,6 tetrachloro p benzoquinone Chloranil or 3,5,4, 6 tetrachloro o benzo quinone per mole of the compound of formula 36. This dehydrogenation reaction is likewise carried out in an inert organic solvent at a temperature of usually about 0 0C to the refluxing temperature of the reaction system for a period of usually 30 minutes to 72 hours using about 0.1 to about 10 moles of a dehydrogenating catalyst such as selenium, palladium carbon, platinum, or rhodium per mole of the compound of formula 36. Suitable inert organic solvents are aprotic inert organic solvents examples of which include ethers such as THF, dioxane, 1,2 dimethoxyethane, diethyleneglycol dimethyl ether, diethylene glycol diethyl ether, and diethylene glycol dibutylether, and aromatic hydrocarbons such as benzene, toluene, xylene, chlorobenzene, nitrobenzene, naphthalene and quinoline. Usually, the reaction can be monitored by thin layer chromatography. Isolation of the final product 3 from the reaction mixture and the purification can be performed usually by removing insoluble materials e.g., 2,3 dichloro 5,6 dicyano p dihydroquinone, or the remaining inert palladium carbon catalyst, etc. from the reaction mixture by filtration, distilling off the reaction solvent under reduced pressure, and then subjecting the residue to the. same treating operation as described inReaction Scheme 1. According to Reaction Scheme 3, hydrolysis of the 3 acyl 1 tu lower acyloxyalkyl indole of formula 37 formed by the above acylation reaction and the subsequent dehydrogenation gives a Saceyl l , hydroxyalkyl indole of the following formula 58 EMI38.1 wherein all symbols are as defined hereinabove. This hydrolysis reaction is carried out under the same conditions as described with regard to ReactionScheme 1, and the final desired product can be obtained by the same isolating and purifying operation. According to Reaction Scheme 3, there can be thus produced not only acylated indole derivatives of this invention included within formula I in which the a carbon atom and or carbon atom in the substituent at the l position, but also those in which all carbon atoms including these alpha and ss carbon atoms are substituted by a lower alkyl group R3 . The 1 acyloxyalkyl tetrahydroindole 35 used in the acylation reaction according to ReactionScheme 3 is prepared by condensing 1 mole of a 1,4 diketone of formula 33 wherein R1 and R42 are defined hereinabove with about 0.5 to about 5 moles of a primary amine of formula 34 wherein R2, R3 and n are as defined hereinabove in the presence of acetic acid and in the presence or absence of an inert organic solvent at a temperature of about 0 C to the refluxing temperature of the reaction system. Suitable inert organic solvents are, for example, benzene, toluene, xylene and dioxane. a 4 Reaction Scheme 4 According to Reaction Scheme 4, the acylation reaction using an acid anhydride which constitutes one aspect of the present invention is carried out by condensing a 1 acyloxyalkyl tetrahydroindole of the following formula 46EMI39.1 wherein all symbols are as defined hereinabove, with the acid anhydride of formula III in the presence of hydrogen iodide to give a 3 acyl l Ciu lower acyloxyalkyl tetrahydroindole of the following formula 47EMI39.2 wherein all symbols are defined hereinabove. This acylation reaction is carried out under the same conditions as described hereinabove with regard to Reaction Scheme 1, and the final desired product can be obtained by the same isolating and purifying operation. According to Reaction Scheme 4, dehydrogenation of the product 47 obtained by the acylation reaction gives the compound 21 mentioned above, and hydrolysis of the compound 21 gives the compound 22 described above. The dehydrogenation and hydrolysis reactions are carried out in the same way as described with regard toReaction Scheme 3. The l w acylox alkyl tetrahydroindole 46 used in the acylation reaction according to ReactionScheme 4 can be prepared in the following manner. One mole of the 1,4 diketone 33 is condensed with about 1 to about 2 moles of a mineral acid salt such as a hydrochloride, hydrobromide or sulfate of an a amino acid ester of formula 39 wherein R2 and R5 are as defined hereinabove in the presence of about 1 to about 3 moles of an acid acceptor such as sodium acetate, potassium acetate, sodium carbonate, potassium carbonate, sodium hydrogen carbonate or potassium hydrogen carbonate in acetic acid or an inert organic solvent containing acetic acid at a temperature of about OOC to the refluxing temperature of the reaction system.Suitable inert organic solvents are, for example, benzene, toluene, xglene and dioxane. The 1 alkyloxycarbonylmethyl tetrahydroindole of formula 40 wherein R42 is as defined hereinabove thus obtained is reduced with lithium aluminum hydride to give a l hydroxyethyl tetrahydroindole of formula 41, which is converted to a l haloethyl tetrahydroindole of formula 42 by halogenation. The compound of formula 42 is then subjected to a Grignard reaction to convert it to a 1 Cu protected hydroxyalkyl tetrahydroindole of formula 44 through or not through an intermediate of formula 43. Deprotection of the compound of formula 44 gives a l lD hydroxyalkyl tetrahydroindole of formula 45. The resulting l hydroxyethyl tetrahydroindole of formula 41 and l iu hydroxyalkyl tetrahydroindole of formula 44 are each condensed with a lower monocarboxylic acid anhydride in pyridine to give a l lower acyloxyethyl tetrahydroindole from the compound of formula 41, and a l , lower acyloxyalkyl tetrahydroindole from the compound of formula 44. These products are inclusively represented by formula 46. A series of reactions for production of the compound of formula 46 from the compound of formula 40 are carried out under the same conditions as in a series of the corresponding reactions in Reaction Scheme 1. As can be understood from the above description, when an optically active a amino acid is used as the a amino acid in formula 39 in the reaction of ReactionScheme 4, there can be obtained acylated indole derivatives of formula I expressed by formula 21 or 22 which are optically active at the a carbon atom of the substituent at the l position. According to Reaction Schemes 1 to 4, there can be advantageously produced 3 acyl 1 w hydroxyalkyl indole derivatives exemplified by compounds 100 to 137 given hereinabove, or 3 acyl l w acyloxyalkyl indole derivatives exemplified by compounds 200 to 219 given hereinabove. b Production of compounds of general formula CI wherein Y is an oxygen atom, A is a lower alkyl group or a phenylalkyl group, a phenylalkyl group substituted by R4 in accordance with Reaction Schemes 5 to 8 EMI42.1 Reaction Scheme 5EMI42.2 Reaction Scheme 6 EMI43.1 Reaction Scheme 7EMI43.2 Reaction Scheme 8 b l Reaction Scheme 5 According to Reaction Scheme 5, a 3 acyl l w hydroxyalkylindole of the following formula 48EMI44.1 wherein R1 R2 R3, R42 and n are as defined hereinabove, and zl represents a phenyl or thienyl group optionally substituted by R42 or a protected hydroxyl group, is condensed with a halogen compound of the following formula V Q X V wherein Q represents a lower alkyl group, a phenyl alkyl group, or a phenylalkyl group substituted by R42, and X represents a halogen atom, in the presence of a basic compound to give a 3 acyl 1 oxaalkyl indole of the following formula 49EMI44.2 wherein all symbols are as defined above. The condensation reaction etherification reaction is carried out by treating 1 mole of the compound of formula 48 with about 1 to about 10 moles of the halogen compound in an inert organic solvent in the presence of about 1 to about 5 moles of the basic compound at a temperature of about 780C to the refluxing temperature of the reaction system. In formula V , examples of the group Q are linear or branched lower alkyl groups having 1 to 6 carbon atoms such as methyl, ethyl, n propyl, iso propyl, n butyl, sec butyl, iso butyl, n pentyl and n hexyl, phenylalkyl groups with the alkyl group having 1 or 2 carbon atoms, such as benzyl, a phenethyl and ss phenethyl and such phenylalkyl groups substituted by the group R4.X is preferably a chlorine, bromine or iodine atom. Iodides and bromides are desirable as the halogen compounds of formula V in view of their respectivity. Examples include methyl iodide, ethyl iodide, ethyl bromide, n propyl iodide, iso propyl bromide, nbutyl bromide, n pentyl bromide, n hexyl bromide, benzyl bromide, a phenethyl bromide, ss phenethyl bromide, benzyl chloride, a phenethyl chloride, Fmethoxy a phenethyl bromide, and p chlorobenzyl chloride. These are merely exemplification of preferred compounds of formula V . Examples of preferred basic compounds are alkali metal hydrides or amides, such as sodium hydride, potassium hydride, sodium amide and lithium hydride. Preferred reaction solvents are aprotic inert organic solvents such as diethyl ether, THF, dioxane, 1,2 dimethoxyethane, ethylene glycol dimethyl ether, benzene, toluene, xylene, DMF, DMSO and HMPA. The compound of formula 49 is, if desired, subjected to hydrolysis to form the compound of formula I e. The compound of formula 48 overlap the compound of formula 38 prepared by Reaction ion Scheme 3. In other words, a compound of formula 38 in which R4 is R42 and Z is Z1is the compound of formula 48. b 2 Reaction Scheme 6 According to Reaction Scheme 6, a 3 acyl l oxaalkyl indole of the following formula 52 EMI46.1 wherein all symbols are as defined hereinabove, is obtained by condensing a l o hydroxyalkyl 3 unsub stituted indole of the following formula 50EMI46.2 wherein all symbols are as defined hereinabove, with the halogen compound of formula V in the presence of at basic compound, and then reacting the condensate further with the acid anhydride of formula III in the presence of hydrogen iodide. The above etherification reaction can be performed under the same reaction conditions as described above with respect to Reaction Scheme 5. The above acylation reaction can be performed under the same reaction conditions as described with regard to the acylation reaction involving use of the acid anhydride of formula ILL in Reaction Scheme 1. According to Reaction Scheme 6, hydrolysis of the compound of formula 52 under the same conditions as in Reaction Scheme gives a compound of the following formula 53 EMI47.1 wherein R1 R2 R , R4, n, Q and Z are as defined above. The compound of formula 50 can be prepared by dehydrogenating the compound of formula 45 in ReactionScheme 3 under the same dehydrogenation reaction conditions for the compound 36, and then hydrolyzing the product. b 3 Reaction Scheme 7 According to Reaction Scheme 7, the same compound of formula 49 as obtained in Reaction Scheme 7 can be obtained by condensing a 3 acyl 1 hydroxyalkyl tetrahydroindole of the following formula 54EMI47.2 wherein all symbols are as defined hereinabove, with the halogen compound of formula V in the presence of a basic compound, and then dehydrogenating the resulting 3 acyl 1 oxaalkyl tetrahydole of the following formula 55EMI47.3 wherein all symbols are as defined hereinabove. This etheriiication reaction can be performed under the same conditions as described hereinabove with regard to Reaction Scheme 5, and the dehydrogenation reaction can be performed under the same conditions as in the dehydrogenation reaction of the compound of formula 36 in Reaction Scheme 3. The compound of formula 54 overlaps some of the compounds of formula 236 in Reaction Scheme 3. b 4 Reaction Scheme 8 According to Reaction Scheme 8, a hydroxyalkyl tetrahydroindole of the following formula 56EMI48.1 wherein all symbols are as defined hereinabove, with the halogen compound of formula V in the presence of a basic compound to form a l oxaalkyl tetrahydroindole of the following formula 57EMI48.2 wherein all symbols are as defined hereinabove, then acylating the compound of formula 57 with the acid anhydride of formula III in the presence of hydrogen iodide to form a 3 acyl 1 oxaalkyl tetrahydroindole of the following formula 58 EMI49.1 wherein all symbols are as defined hereinabove, and dehydrogenating the compound of formula 58 to form the 3 acyl l oxaalkyl indole of formula 52.Hydrolysis of the compound of formula 52 gives the compound of formula 53. The above etherification reaction and dehydrogenation reaction can be performed under the same conditions as in Reaction Scheme 7. The acylation reaction and hydrolysis reaction can be performed under the same conditions as in Reaction Scheme 6. The compound of formula 56 is obtained by hydrolysis of the compound 35 in Reaction Scheme 3. According to Reaction Schemes 5 to 8, there can be advantageously prepared 3 acyl 1 lower alkyl or substituted or unsubstituted phenylalkyl oxyalkyl indole derivatives exemplified by compounds 300 to 347 exemplified hereinabove. c Production of compounds of general formula I wherein Y is an oxygen atom, and A is a phenyl group optionally substituted by the group R4, or a heterocyclic group containing an oxygen, sulfur or nitrogen atom and optionally substituted by the group R4 EMI49.2 EMI50.1 Reaction Scheme 9 According to Reaction Scheme 9, a 3 acyl 1 o aryloxyalkyl indole of the following formula 60EMI50.2 wherein Arl represents a henyl group optionally substituted by R42 or a protected hydroxyl group, or a 5 or 6 membered heterocyclic group con taining an oxygen, sulfur or nitrogen atom optionally substituted by R42 or a protected hydroxyl group, is prepared by condensing a 3 acyl l haloalkyl indole expressed by the following formula 59EMI50.3 wherein R, R, R, R42, n and Z are as defined hereinabove, and X represents a halogen atom, with an aromatic hydroxy compound of the formula VI Ar1 0H wherein Arl is the same as defined hereinabove, in the presence of a basic compound in an inert organic solvent. This condensation reaction etherification reaction can be performed by using 1 mole of the halogen compound of formula 59 and about 1 to about 2 moles of the aromatic hydroxy compound of formula VI in the presence of about 1 to about 3 moles of the basic compound at a temperature of about 780C to the refluxing temperature of the reaction system. Chlorine, bromine and iodine atoms are preferred as the halogen atom X in formula 59. The compound of formula 59 is prepared by halogenating some of the compounds of formula 38 in Reaction Scheme 3 performed under the same conditions as in the halogenation reaction of preparing the compound of formula 14 from the compound of formula 15 in Reaction Scheme 1 . Specific examples of Arl in formula VI include the optionally substituted phenyl or heterocyclic group which are exemplified as group A in formula I , and a phenyl or heterocyclic group substituted by a protected hydroxyl group. Examples of the aromatic hydroxy compounds of formula VI are phenol, p acetoxyphenol, p metoxyphenol, o chlorophenol, m cresol, p isopropylphenol, 3 allyl alcohol, 3 hydroxythiophene, and 4 hydroxypyridine. Preferred basic compounds include, for example, alkali metal hydrides or amides such as sodium hydride, potassium hydride, lithium hydride and sodium aside. The same aprotic inert organic solvents as used in the etherification reaction in Reaction Scheme 5 are preferred as the reaction solvent in the above reaction. According to Reaction Scheme 9, hydrolysis of the compound of formula 60 obtained by the above reaction under the same conditions as in the hydrolysis of the compound of formula 52 in Reaction Scheme 6 gives a compound of the following formula 61EMI52.1 R1, R2, n3, R42, n and Z are as defined herein above, Ar represents a phenyl group optionally substituted by R42 or a hydroxyl group, or a 5 or 6 membered heterocyclic group containing an oxygen, sulfur or nitrogen atom optionally substituted by R42 or a hydroxyl group. According to Reaction Scheme 9, 3 ocyl l w substituted or unsubstituted phenyl or heterocyclicoxyalkyl indole derivatives exemplified by compounds 348 to 352 given hereinabove which come within the definition of formula I of this invention. B Compounds of formula I wherein Y is a bond and A is a hydrogen atom These compounds can be produced in accordance with Reaction Schemes 10 to 13 below.EMI52.2 EMI53.1 Reaction Scheme 10EMI53.2 EMI54.1 Reaction Scheme 11EMI54.2 Reaction Scheme 12 EMI55.1 Reaction Scheme 13EMI55.2 EMI56.1 Reaction Scheme 14 According to Reaction Schemes 10 and 12 to 14, a l alkyl 3 unsubstituted indole having an alkyl group of the desired number of carbon atoms at the l position and represented by the following formula 65 EMI56.2 wherein R1 R2 R3, R42 and n are as defined hereinabove, is condensed with the acid anhydride of formula III in the presence of hydrogen iodide to give a 3 cyano lalkylindole of the following formula 64 having the alkyl group with the desired number of carbon atoms at the 1positionEMI56.3 wherein all symbols are as defined above. Hydrolysis of the compound of formula 64 gives a compound of the following formula 65 having the alkyl group of the desired number of carbon atoms at the l positionEMI57.1 wherein all symbols are as defined hereinabove. The above acylation reaction and hydrolysis reaction are carried out under the same conditions as described hereinabove with regard to Reaction Scheme 1. The l alkyl 3 unsubstituted indole of formula 63 which gives the 3 acylindole derivatives of formulae 64 and 65 which fall within the definition of formula I can be produced i in accordance with Reaction Scheme 10 by reacting 1 mole of the indole of formula 10 with about 1 to about 5 moles of an alkyl halide of formula 62 wherein R2, R3, X and n are as defined hereinabove in the presence of a basic catalyst in an inert organic solvent at a temperature of about OOC to the refluxing temperature of the reaction system ii in accordance with Reaction Scheme 12 by halogenating a l ashydroxyalkyl 3 unsubstituted indole of formula 69 wherein R1, Rê, R3 and R42 are as defined hereinabove, n is 1 to 10, r is 1 to 9, and n minus r is 1 to 9 under the same reaction conditions as in the production of the compound of formula 14 from the compound of formula 13 in Reaction Scheme 1, and condensing the resulting 1 w haloalkyl 3 unsubstituted indole of formula 70 wherein R1, R2, R3, R42, n and r.are as defined in formula 69, and X represents a halogen atom such as chlorine or bromine with a Grignard reagent of formula 71 wherein R3, X and r are as defined hereinabove under the same conditions as in the production of the compound of formula 18 from the compounds of formulae 14 and 17 in Reaction Scheme 1 tiii in accordance with Reaction Scheme 13 by reacting. the compound of formula 69 with metallic magnesium under the seme conditions as in the production of the compound of formula 15 from the compound of formula 14 in Reaction Scheme 1 to form a compound of formula 72 wherein R1, R2, R3, R42, X, n and r are as defined above , and condensing the compound of formula 72 with an alkyl halide of formula 73 wherein R3, X and r are as defined hereinabove under the same conditions as in the production of the compound of formula 18 from the compounds of formulae 15 and 16 in Reaction Scheme 1 or iv in accordance with Reaction Scheme 14 by condensing 1 mole of the l hydroxyalkyl 5 unsubsti tuted indole of formula 50 with about 1 to about 3 moles of a sulfonyl halide of the formula R6S02X wherein R6 represents a methyl group or p tolyl group and X represents a halogen atom such as chlorine or bromine, in the presence of a basic compound such as triethylamine or pyridine at a temperature of about 0 C to about 500C to form 2 1 organic sulfonyloxyalkyl 3 unsubstituted indole of formula 74 wherein R1, R2, R3, R42, R6 and n are as defined hereinabove , and, treating the compound of formula 74 with lithium aluminum hydride in an inert organic solvent such as diethyl ether, tetrahydrofuran or dioxane at a temperature of about 0 C to the refluxing temperature of the reaction system to remove the organic sulfonyloxy group. According to Reaction Scheme 11, 3 acyl 1 alkyl indoles of formulae 64 and 65 can be produced as follows The 1,4 diketone of formula 53 is condensed with the priory amine of formula 66 wherein R2, R3 and n are as defined hereinabove under the same conditions as in the production of the compound of formula j5 from the compounds of formulae 33 and 34 in Reaction Scheme 3 to afford a l alkyl 3 unsubstituted tetrahydroindole of formula 67 wherein Rl, R2, R3, R42 and n are as defined as above which is then converted to the compound of formula 64 through the compound of formula 68 under the same conditions as in the production of the compound 37 by dehydrogenation of the compound of formula 36 formed by acylation of the compound of formula 35 in ReactionScheme 3 the acylation reaction and dehydrogenation reaction . According to Reaction Schemes 11 to 14, 3 acyll alkylindole derivatives exemplified by compounds 700 to 709 exemplified hereinabove which come within the acylated indole derivatives I of this invention can be advantageously produced. c Compounds of general formula I wherein Y is a sulfur atom and A is a hydrogen atom or a lower acyl group These compounds can be produced in accordance with Reaction Scheme 15 below.EMI59.1 According to Reaction Scheme 15, 2 3 ecyl 1 halogeno or sulfonyloxyalkyl indole of the following formula 76EMI60.1 wherein R1, Rê, R3, R42, n and ZÚ are as defined above, and T1 represents a halogen atom such as a chlorine, bromine or iodine atom, OS02CH3 or OS024 CH3, is reacted with a thiocarboxylic acid or thiourea or an alkali metal salt having the following formula 77 T2 S M 77 wherein T2 represents an acyl group having 1 to 6 carbon atoms such as an acetyl, propionyl or amidino group, and M represents a hydrogen atom or an alkali metal such as sodium or potassium, to form a 3 acyl 1 acylthio or amidinothioalkyl indole of the following formula 78 EMI60.2 wherein RÚ, Rê, R , R42, n, Tê and ZÚ are the same as defined hereinabove.If desired, the compound of formula 78 is hydrolyzed to give a 3 cyl 1 mercaptoalkyl indole of the following formula 79 EMI61.1 wherein RÚ, R2 R3 R42, n and Z are defined hereinabove. The reaction between the compound of formula 76 and the compound of formula 77 is usually carried out in an inert organic solvent such as DMF, 5SO, HMPA, methanol, ethnol, acetone, ether, or THF at a temperature of about 0 C to the refluxing temperature of the reaction system for about 30 minutes to about 48 hours. In this reaction, about 1 to about 10 moles of the compound of formula 77 can be used per mole of the compound of formula 76. A compound of formula 78 in which T2 is a lower acyl group is embraced by formula I and constitutes part of the acyl indole derivatives of the present invention. If required, the compound of formula 78 is hydrolyzed under the same conditions as described hereinabove to form the compound of formula 79 which is one of the acylated indole derivative of this invention within formul. CI . The 3 acyl l hydroxya1ky1 indole of formula 75, a starting compound for production of the compound of formula 76, is included within the compound 38 of ReactionScheme 3. A compound of formula 76 in which T1 is a halogen atom can be prepared from the compound of formula 75 in the same way as in the production of the compound of formula 14 from the compound of formula 13 in accordance withReaction Scheme 1. A compound of formula 76 in which T1 is OSo2cH3 orEMI62.1 can be produced from the compound of formula 75 in the same way as in the production of the compound of formula 74 from the compound of formula 50 in Reaction Scheme 14. According to Reaction Scheme 15, 3 acyl l mercapto or lower acylthio alkyl indole derivatives exemplified by compounds 416 and 422 to 424 given hereinabove, which fall into the acylated indole derivatives of formula I of this invention, can be advantageously produced. D Compounds of formula I wherein Y is a sulfur atom, and A is a lower alkyl group, or a substituted or unsubstituted phenyl, phenylalkyl or heterocyclic group These compounds can be produced in accordance with Reaction Schemes 16 to 18.EMI62.2 D l. Reaction Scheme 16 According to Reaction Scheme 16, the 3 acyl 1 omercaptoalkyl indole of formula 79 obtained in accordance with Reaction Scheme 15 is condensed with a halogen compound of formula V Q X wherein C represents a lower alkyl group, a phenyl alkyl group, or a phenylalkyl group substituted by R42, or X represents a halogen atom, in the presence of a basic compound to give a 3 acyl l thianlkyl indole of the following formula 80EMI63.1 wherein RÚ,Rê, R3, R42, n Z1 and Q are as defined hereinabove. The above condensation reaction can be performed under the same conditions as described above with regard to Reaction Scheme 5. According to Reaction Scheme 16, there can be produced acylated indole derivatives of this invention in which the l position is replaced by an w lower alkylthioalkyl group or an assubstituted or unsubstituted phenylthioalkyl or phenylalkylthioalkyl group, as shown by formula 80. D 2. Reaction Scheme 17 According to Reaction Scheme 17, the 3 acyl 1 ashalogeno or sulfonyloxy alkyl indole of formula 76 obtained in Reaction Scheme 15 is condensed with the aromatic thiol compound of formula VI Arl SH VI in the presence of 2 basic compound in an inert organic solvent to afford a 3 acyl 1 orylthiaalkyl indole of the following formula 81EMI64.1 wherein all symbols are as defined hereinabove. The condensing reaction can be performed under the same conditions as described with regard to ReactionScheme 9. In this case, however, pyridine and sodium alkoxides such as sodium methoxide and sodium ethoxide can also be used as the basic compound. According to Reaction Scheme 17, acylated indole derivatives of this invention in which the 1position is substituted by an arylthiaalkyl group, as shown by formula 81, can be obtained. D 3. Reaction Scheme 18 According to Reaction Scheme 18, the 3 acyl 1 hydroxyalkyl indole of formula CI a1 the compound of formula 38 obtained by Reaction Scheme 3 is condensed with a disulfide compound of the following formula IV A2 S S A2 CIV wherein A2 represents a lower alkyl group, or a phenyl, phenylalkyl or 5 or 6 membered O , S or N containing heterocyclic group optionally substituted by R42, in pyridine in the presence of a trialkylphosphine to give a 3 acyl 1 thiaalkylindole of the following formula 82 EMI65.1 wherein all symbols are as defined hereinabove. The condensation reaction is carried out by contacting 1 mole of the compound of formula I al with about 1 to about 10 moles of the di sulfide compound in the presence of about 1 to about 10 moles of the trialkylphosphine at a temperature of about OOC to about 800C, Examples of the disulfide compound include di lower alkyl disulfides such as dimethyl disulfide, diethyl disulfide, di n propyl disulfide, diisopropyl disulfide, di n butyl disulfide, di n pentyl disulfide and di n hexyl disulfide di substituted or unsubstituted phenyl disulfides such as diphenyl disulfide, bis pchlorophenyl disulfide, bis o methoxyphenyl disulfide and di p tolyl disulfide di substituted or unsubstituted phenylalkyl disulfides such as dibenzyl disulfide, bis p methoxybenzyl disulfide, bis o chlorobenzyl disulfide, bis p chlorobenzyl disulfide, di a phenethyl disulfide, bis p chloro a phenethyl di sulfide, di ss phenethyl disulfide and bis p methoxy ss phenethyl disulfide and di substituted or unsubstituted heterocyclic group disulfides such as di 4 pyridyl disulfide, di 2 pyridyl disulfide, di 2 imidazolyl disulfide, bis 5 methyl 1,3,4 thiazol 2 yl disulfide, di 2 thiophene disulfide, di 3 thiophene di sulfide, di 2 furyl disulfide, di 2thiazolyl disulfide, di 2 pyrimidinyl disulfide and di 2 oxazolyl disulfide. Preferred trialkylphosphines are those having alkyl groups with 1 to 6 carbon atoms, such as trimethylpophoephoine, triethylphosphine, tri n butylphoephine and tri n hexylphosphine. Of these, tri n butylphosphine is especially preferred. The reaction is carried out in pyridine as a solvent, and is completed usually in about 1 hour to about 72 hours., If desired, the condensation product is hydrolyzed. Thus, compounds of formula 82 in which the groupZ and the group A2 are protected hydroxyl groups can be converted to the corresponding compounds in which these groups are converted to hydroxyl groups. According to Reaction Scheme 18, acylated indole derivatives of this invention can be produced in which the l position is substituted by an lower alkylthioalkyl group, an osubstituted or unsubstituted phenylthioalkyl or phenylalkylthioalkyl group, or an substituted or unsubstituted heterocyclic thioalkyl group, as shown by formula 82. According to Reaction Schemes 16 to 18, 3acyl l thiaalkyl indole derivatives exemplified by compounds 400 to 428 exemplified hereinabove which come within the acylated indole derivatives of formula CI can be advantageously produced. E Compound of general formula I wherein Y represents SO or S02 and A represents a lower alkyl group, a substituted or unsubstituted phenyl, phenylalkyl or heterocyclic group These compounds can be produced in accordance with Reaction Schemes 19 and 20.EMI66.1 Reaction Scheme 19 EMI67.1 Reaction Scheme 20 E l. Reaction Scheme 19 According to Reaction Scheme 19, the 3 acyl1 4 thiaalkylindole of formula 82 obtained in accordance with Reaction Scheme 18 is reacted with sodium perchlorate or sodium periodate in a solvent such as water, methanol, ethanol, THF or dioxane at a temperature of about 500C to 500C for a period of about 30 minutes to about 24 hours first reaction , or by reacting 1 mole of the compound of formula 82 with about 1 mole about 0.9 to about 1.2 moles of an oxidizing agent such as hydrogen peroxide, peracetic acid, performic acid, perbenzoic acid, m chloroperbenzoic acid, isobutyl hydroperoxide, sec butyl hydroperoxide, t butyl hydroperoxide,N bromosuccinimide NBS or N chlorosuccinimide NCS in a solvent such as acetic acid, methylene chloride, chloroform, 1,2 dichloroethane or benzene at a temperature of about 500C to 500C for about 30 minutes to about 24 hours second reaction , to give a 3 acyl l oxythiaalkylindole of the following formula 85 EMI67.2 wherein all symbols are as defined hereinabove. According to Reaction Scheme 19, 3 acyl 1 oxythiaalkyl indole derivatives exemplified by compounds 500 to 514 given hereinabove, which come within the definition of the acylated indole derivatives of formula I of this invention, can be advantageously produced. It 2. Reaction Scheme 20 According to Reaction Scheme 20, 1 mole of the 3 acyl 1 thialkylindole of formula 32 is reacted with at least about 2 moles, preferably about 2 to about 3 moles of the oxidizing agent used in the first reaction of Reaction Scheme 19 under the same conditions as in the second reaction of Reaction Scheme 18 to afrord a 3 acyl l dioxythiaalkylindole of the following formula 84EMI68.1 wherein all symbols are as defined hereinabove. According to Reaction Scheme 20, 3 acyl 1dioxythiaalkylindole derivatives exemplified by compounds 600 to 614 given hereinabove, whcch come within the acylated indole derivatives of formula I of this invention, can be advantageously produced. F Compounds of general formula CI wherein Y is a bond and A is a lower alkyl group. These compounds can be produced in accordance with Reaction Schemes 21 to 23 below.EMI68.2 EMI69.1 Reaction Scheme 22EMI69.2 Reaction Scheme 23 EMI70.1 Reaction Scheme 24 F 1. Reaction Scheme 21 According to Reaction Scheme 21. The indole of formula 10 is reacted with an oc haloketone of formula 85 wherein R2 is as defined hereinabove, and R7 represents a lower alkyl group, preferably an alkyl group having 1 to 6 carbon atoms under the same conditions as in the production of the compound of formula 12 from the compounds of formulae 10 and 11 in Reaction Scheme 1 to give a 1lower acylmethylindole of the following formula 86EMI70.2 wherein all symbols are as defined hereinabove. The compound of formula 86 is then acylated with the acid arihydride III in the same way as in Reaction Scheme 1, and if desired, hydrolyzed to afford a 3 acyl l lower acylmethylindole of the following formula 87EMI71.1 wherein all symbols are as defined hereinabove or the hydrolysis product of the compound of formula 87 which is expressed by the following formula 88EMI71.2 wherein all symbols are as defined hereinabove. F 2. Reaction Scheme 22 According to Reaction Scheme 22, the indole of formula 10 is reacted with an a,ss unsaturated ketone of formula 89 wherein R2, R3 and R7 are as defined hereinabove under the same conditions as in the production of the compound of formula 24 from the compounds of formulae 10 and 23 in Reaction Scheme 2, to afford l lower acylethylindole of the following formula 90EMI71.3 wherein all symbols are defined hereinabove.The compound of formula 90 is then acylated with the acid anhydride III in the same way as inReaction Scheme 2, and then hydrolyzed to give a 3 acyll lower acylethylindole of the following formula 91EMI72.1 wherein all symbols are as defined above, or the hydrolysis product of the compound of formula 91, which is expressed by the following formula 92EMI72.2 wherein all symbols are as defined hereinabove. F 3. Reaction Scheme 23 According to Reaction Scheme 23, a 3 acyl l acylalkyl indole of the following formula 94EMI72.3 wherein all symbols are as defined hereinabove.can be produced either by oxidizing a 3 acyl 1 hydro xyalkyl indole of the following formula 9 3 EMI73.1 wherein all symbols are as defined hereinabove, with a chromic acid type complex such as chromic acidpyridine complex Collin s reagent , pyridine dichromate PDC or pyridinium chlorochromate PDC in an inert organic solvent such as ether, T4F, methylene chloride, chloroform, carbon tetrachloride or acetone at a temperature of about OOC to about 500C, or by oxidizing the compound of formula 93 with dimethylsulfoxide in the presence of one of dicyclohexylcarbodiimide, oxalic chloride, thionyl chloride and acetyl chloride and one primary amine such as pyridine, s collidine and triethylamine at a temperature of about 7SOC to about 200C Moffat Oxidation Reaction . The compound Of formula 93, a starting material in Reaction Scheme 23, can be prepared in the same way as in Reaction Scheme 3 from a compound of formula 34 in which n is changed to n 1. F 4. Reaction Scheme 24 According to Reaction Scheme 24, a l ashydro xyalkyl 3 unsubstituted indole of the following formula 95EMI73.2 wherein all symbols are as defined hereinabove, is oxidized under the same conditions as in the production of the compound of formula 94 from the compound of formula i5 in Reaction Scheme 23, to give a l w acylalkyl indole of the following formula 96EMI74.1 wherein all symbols are as defined hereinabove. The compound of formula 96 is reacted with the acid anhydride of formula III in the presence of hydrogen iodide under the same conditions as in the production of the compound of formula 21 from the compound of formula 20 to give a compound of formula 97. Hydrolysis of the compound 97 gives a compound of formula 98. According to Reaction Schemes 21 to 24, 3 acyl l olower acylalkyl indole derivatives exemplified by compounds 800 to 808 given hereinabove, which come within the definition of the acylated indole derivatives of formula I of this invention, can be advantageously produced. The acylated indole derivatives of formula I provided by the present invention have a characteristic pharmacological action in that they have excellent ability to inhibit platelet aggregation with reduced tedency toward inducing ulcer formation. Thus, according to this invention, there is provided a composition having the ability to inhibit platelet aggregation comprising a pharmaceutically effective amount of an acylated indole derivative of the following formula I a EMI74.2 wherein R21 represents an alkyl group having 1 to 3 cabbon atoms, two groups R4 are identical or different and each represents a hydrogen atom, a hydroxyl group, a halogen atom, a lower alkyl group or a lower alkoxy group, Y represents a bond, 0 , S , SO or S02 , A represents a hydrogen atom, a lower alkyl group, a lower acyl group, a phenyl group, a phenylalkyl group, a 5 or 6 membered heterocyclic group containing an oxygen, sulfur or nitrogen atom, or a phenyl, phenylalkyl or 5 or 6 membered 0 , S or N containing heterocyclic group substituted by R4, and m is zero or an integer of 1 to 3 provided that when m is 0, Y represents a bond and A represents a lower acyl group.or an optically active isomer or salt thereof, and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier, or said composition in unit dosage form. In a preferred aspect, the present invention also provides a composition having the ability to inhibit platelet aggregation comprising a pharmaceutically effective amount of an acylated indole derivative of the following formula I b EMI75.1 wherein R41 represents a hydrogen atom, a hydroxyl group, a chlorine atom, a methyl group or a methoxy group, Y is as defined in formula I l, A1 represents a hydrogen atom, an alkyl group having 1 to 4 carbon atoms, a lower acyl group having 1 to 4 carbon atoms, a phenyl group, or a 5 or 6 membered heterocyclic group containing an oxygen, sulfur or nitrogen atom, and j is 0, 1 or 2 provided that when ss is 0, Y representsa bond and A represents said lower acyl group.or an optically active isomer or salt thereof, and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier, or said composition in unit dosage form. Usually, the acylated indole derivative of this invention is administered perorally or parenterally e.g., intrarectally, subcutaneously, intramuscularly, etc. as the aforesaid composition or a drug in unit dosage form composed of the aforesaid composition. Preferably, it is administered peroally or intrarectally, and this is convenient to patients. For oral administration, the composition is formulated into a solid or liquid preparation. Examples of the solid preparation are tablets, pills, powders or granules. In such a solid preparation, at least one active substance acylated indole derivative of the invention is mixed with at least one inert diluent such as calcium carbonate, potato starch, alginic acid or lactic acid. The mixture is formulated in a customary manner. Additives other than diluents, such as lubricants e.g., magnesium stearate , may also be incorporated. Examples of the liquid preparation for oral administration are an emulsion, a solution, a suspension, a syrup and an alixir. These liquid preparations contain common inert diluents such as water or liquid paraffin. These liquid preparations may also contain other auxiliary agents such as wetting agents, suspending aids, sweetenings, flavoring agents, aromas, and antiseptics. The liquid preparations may be made into capsules using an absorbent substance such as gelatin. A solid preparation for intrarectal administration may, for example, be a suppository containing at least one active substance and prepared by a method known per se. Preparations for parenteral administration are, for example, aseptic aqueous or non aqueous solutions, suspensions, and emulsions. Vegetable oils such as olive oils, propylene glycol, polyethylene glycol, and injectable organic esters such as ethyl oleate may, for example, be used as a non aqueous solvent or suspending agent. These preparations for parenteral administration may also contain auxiliary agents such as antiseptics, wetting agents, emulsifiers and dispersing agents. They can be sterilized by, for example, filtration on a bacterial holding filter, incorporation of a germicides, or by irradiation. Or an aseptic solid preparation may be produced and immediately before use, may be dissolved in aseptic water or aseptic solvents for injection. The acylated indole derivative of this invention can be converted into an inclusion compound with cyclodextrin. Such an inclusion compound has the advantage that a solid preparation containing such an inclusion compound, when administered orally to a warm blooded animal, has increased dispersibility in the stomach and increased absorption, and that the inclusion compound is easy to form into a solid preparation. The cyclodextrin includes a , ss and Y cyclo dextrins, and the ss cyclodextrin is preferred. The inclusion compound of the acylated indole derivative of this invention with cyclodextrin can be prepared, or for example, by a co precipitation method which comprises forming an aqueous solution of P cyclodextrin, adding the acylated indole derivative, stirring the mixture, and if required cooling the mixture to precipitate an inclusion compound a solvent evaporating method which comprises adding a solution of the acylated indole derivative in an organic solvent such as ethyl ether to an aqueous solution of a cyclodextrin, stirring the mixture, and then distilling off the organic solvent or a kneading method which comprises forming an aqueous slurry of P cyclodextrin, adding the acylated indole derivative or a solution of it in an organic solvent, and kneading the mixture by a ball mill, grinding machine, etc. The resulting inclusion compound can be directly used as a powdery drug. Or it can be formulated into tablets, granules, capsules, syrups, etc. by adding required amounts of excipients, binders, disintegrating agents, luster imparting agents, corrigents, smell modifiers, coloring agents, etc. Since the acylated indole derivative of this invention have the excellent pharmacological activities, it can be administered to warm blooded animals including man when it is desired to inhibit platelet aggregation or inhibit or prevent thrombus formation. For example, the acylated indole derivatives of this invention are useful for prevention of infarction of a cardiovascular system, prevention of post operative thrombosis, promotion of patency of a vascular prosthesis after surgical operation, and for prevention and treatment of atherosclerosis and arteriosclerosis. They are also used to prevent onset of cerebral ischemia in patients of senile diseases, and to prevent or treat myocardial infarction and a poplexy for a long period of time after their seizure. The present invention also provides a method for inhibiting platelet aggregation of a warm blooded animal, which comprises administering an amount effective for inhibition of platelet aggregation of the acylated indole derivative of formula I a or an optically active isomer or salt thereof to said warm blooded animals. The dosage of the acylated indole derivative of this invention is about 0.0005 to about 20 mg, preferably about 0.01 to about 10 mg, per kg of body weight per day.The dosage, however, is affected by the condition, body weight and age of a patient and the route of administration. The acylated indole derivative of this invention may also be used as an additive for fluids used in artificial circulation and perfusion outside the body of the blood, blood products, substitute blood, or those in separated parts of a body for example, limbs or organs either adhering to the parent body, stored after separation, or provided for transplantation, or adhering to a new body . Platelets clotted in such a circulating or perfusing fluids tend to clog vessels and circulating organs. This clogging can be avoided by the presence of the acylated indole derivative of this invention. For this purpose, the acylated indole derivative may be added gradually or at a time or in several portions to the circulating blood, the blood of a donor animal, parts of the body under pefusion separated from or adhering to the recipient ,or to two or all of these. The following Examples illustrate the present invention more specifically.Example 1 Synthesis of 1 l acetoxy 2 propyl 3 benzoyl 2 methylindole No. 200 1 2 Acetonylcyclohexanone 4.62g 30 millimoles , 4.60g 30 millimoles of alanine ethyl ester hydrochloride and 2.46g 30 millimoles of sodium acetate were suspended in 20 ml of acetic acid, and the suspension was heated under reflux for 3 hours After the reaction, the acetic acid was distilled off under reduced pressure. The resulting reaction product was dissolved in 200 ml of etbyl acetate, and washed with 100 ml of a saturated aqueous solution of sodium bicarbonate twice, 100 ml of water and then 100 ml of a saturated aqueous solution of sodium chloride.The organic layer was dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate, and the solvent was distilled off under reduced pressure.The resulting oily product was chromatographed on a silica gel column using benzene as an eluent to afford 3.Og yield 4236 of ethyl 2 4,5, 6, 7 tetrabydro 2 methylindol l yl propi onate. NMR CDCL O PPm 1.19 3H, t, J 7 Hz , 1.55 3H, d, J 7 Hz , 1.6 4H, m , 2.13 C3H, s , 2.4 4H, m , 4.17 2H, q, J 7 Hz , 4.73 1H, q, J 7Hz , 5.65 1H, s . 2 A solution of 3.50g 14.9 millimoles of the ethyl 2 4,5,6,7 tetrahiydro 2 methylindol 1 yl propionate obtained in 1 above in 20 ml of anhydrous ether was added dropwise to a stirred suspension of 566 mg 14.9 millimoles of lithium aluminum hydride in 30 ml of anhydrous ether.The mixture was stirred at room temperature for 16 hours, and a saturated aqueous solution of anhydrous sodium sulfate was added to decompose the excess of lithium aluminum hydride and the resulting aluminum compound. The ethereal layer was washed with a saturated aqueous solution of sodium chloride, and dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate. The solvent was distilled off under reduced pressure. The resulting oily product was dissolved in 10 ml of acetic anhydride and 10 ml of pyridine, and the mixture was stirred at room temperature for 18 hours. The pyridine and acetic anhydride were distilled off under reduced pressure, and the reaction product was dissolved in 400 ml of ether.The ethereal layer was washed successively with 100 ml of 1N hydrochloric acid, 100 ml of a saturated aqueous solution of sodium bicarbonate, 100 ml of water, and 100 ml of a saturated aqueous solution of sodium chloride. On distilling off the solvent under reduced pressure, 1 1 acetoxy 2 propyl 4,5,6,7 tetrahydro 2 methylindole yield 91 was obtained. NMR CDC 3, 8 ppm 1.48 2H, d, J 7Hz , 1.75 4H, m , 1.97 3H, s , 2.20 3H, s , 2.55 4H, m , 4.3 3H, m , 5.62 1H, s . 3 A mixture of 23.2g 0.099 mole of the 1 1acetoxy 2 propyl 4,5,6,7 tetrahydro 2 methylindole obtained in 2 above, 44.8g 0.198 mole of benzoic anhydride and 1 ml of 52 hydriodic acid was stirred at 145 0C for 2 hours in a stream of nitrogen with stirring. The reaction mixture was allowed to cool to room temperature, and dissolved in 300 ml of ethyl acetate. The solution was washed successively with 100 my of 1N aqueous sodium hydroxide solution, 100 ml of water and 100 ml of a satrurated aqueous solution of sodium chloride. The organic layer was dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate, and the solvent was distilled off under reduced pressure.The resulting blackish brown oily product was chromatographed on a silica gel column using benzene ethyl acetate 19 1 as an eluent to afford 29.6g yield 88 of 1 1 acetoxy 2 propyl 3 benzoyl 4,5,6,7 tetrahydro 2methylindole as an oil. NNR CDC 3, ppm 1.45 3H, d, J 8Hz , 1.6 4H, m , 1.94 3H, s , 2.2 2H, m , 2.24 3H, s , 2.6 2H, m , 4.2 4.7 3H, m , 7.3 7.6 3H, m , 7.6 7.8 2H, m . 4 2.69g 7.9 millimoles of the l 1 acetoxy 2 propyl 3 benzoyl 4,5,6,7 tetrahydro 2 methylindole obtined in 3 above, and 4.32g 18.9 millimoles of 2,3dichloro 5,6 dicyanobenzo 1,4 quinone were dissolved in 50 ml of dioxane, and the solution was heated under reflux for 4 hours. The dioxane was distilled off under reduced pressure, and 400 ml of ethyl acetate was added to the residue to dissolve the reaction product. The solution was filtered. The filtrate was washed with 200 ml of water, 100 ml of IN aqueous sodium hydroxide solution, 200 ml of water and 100 ml of a saturated aqueous solution of sodium chloride, followed by drying over anhydrous magnesium sulfate. The solvent was distilled off under reduced pressure.The resulting blackish brown oily product was chromatographed on a column of silica gel using benzene acetic acid 20 1 as an eluent to afford l.44g yield 5g of the desired compound No. 200 as an oil. IR CHCl3 cm Ú 1736, 1625, 1521, 1461, 1613, 1382, 1230, 1174, 1050. NME CDC 3, ppm 1.63 311, d, J 8Hz , 1.87 3H, s , 2.52 3H, s , 4.3 4.6 2H, m , 4.6 5.2 1H, m , 6.8 7.8 9H, in . Example 2 Synthesis of 3 benzoyl 1 1 hydroxy 2 propyl 2 methylindole No. 100 In a mixture of 10 ml of methanol and 5 ml of a 1N aqueous solution of sodium hydroxide was dissolved 597 mg 1.78 millimoles of the compound No. 200 obtained in Example 1. The solution was stirred at room temperature for 3 hours. Methanol was distilled off under reduced pressure, and the residue was dissolved in 50 ml of ethyl acetate. The solution was washed with 50 ml of water and 50 ml of a saturated aqueous solution of sodium chloride.The product was dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate, and the solvent was distilled off under reduced pressure to afford 520 mg yield 100 of the desired compound No. 100 as an oil. IR CHCl3 cm Ú 3400, 1620, 1576, 1513, 1462, 1412, 1390, 1273, 1230, 1163, 1056, 1131, 899. NMR CDCl3, ppm 1.60 3H, d, J 8Hz , 2.47 3K, s , 2,60 1H, br , 3.6 4.2 2H, m , 4,2 4,8 1H, m , 6.9 7.8 9H, m .Example 3 Synthesis of 3 benzoyl 1 1 ethoxy 2 propyl 2 methylindole No. 302 447 mg of the compound No. 100 obtained inExample 2 was dissolved in 20 ml of dimethoxyethane.While the solution was cooled with ice with stirring, 90 mg 1.2 equivalents of sodium hydride was added, followed by addition of 0.5 ml of ethyl bromide. The mixture was stirred overnight. The dimethoxyethane was distilled off under reduced pressure, and the reaction product was dissolved in 50 ml of ethyl acetate. The solution was washed first with 50 ml of water and then with 50 ml of a saturated aqueous solution of sodium chloride, followed by drying over anhydrous sodium sulfate. The solvent was distilled under reduced pressure, and the resulting oily product was chromatographed on a silica gel column using benzene ethyl acetate 20 1 as an eluent to afford 270 mg yield 56 of the desired compound No. 302 as an oil. IR CHCl3 cm Ú 2960, 2850, 1620, 1572, 1516, 1459, 1445, 1407, 1381, 1254, 1268, 1210 1230, 1168, 1100, 1070, 1025, 896, 696. NMR CDCl3, ppm 1.03 3H, t, J 6.5 , 1.60 3H, d, J 7 , 253 3H, s , 3.1 3.6 2ff, m , 3.7 4.2 2H, m , 4.67 1H, sextet , 6.9 7.9 9H, m .Example 4 synthesis of 3 benzoyl 1 1 methoxy 2 propyl 2 methylindole No. 300 The compound No. 100 obtained in Example 2 was reacted with methyl iodide in the same way as in Example 3 to afford the desired compound No. 300 . IR CHCl3 cm Ú 2950, 2900, 1620, 1572, 1515, 1450, 1403, 1374, 1267, 1225, 1200, 1165, 110 8, 1036, 895, 744. NMR CDCl3, 6 ppm 1.60 3H, d, J 7 Hz , 2.55 3H, s , 3.23 3H, s , 3.6 4.1 211, m , 4.5 5.1 1H, m , 6.9 7.9 9H, m .Example 5 Synthesis of 3 benzoyl 1 1 isopropoxy 2 propyl 2 methylindole No. 305 The compound No. 100 obtained in Example 2 was reacted with 2 bromopropane in the same way as in Example 3 to afford the desired compound No. 305 in a yield of 90 . NMR CDCl3, 6 ppm 0.92 3H, d, J 6 Hz , 1.04 3E, d, J 6 Hz , 1.61 3H, d, J 6 Hz , 2.51 3H, s , 3.37 1H, sextet, J 6 Hz , 3.82 2H, bd, J 6 Hz , 4.68 1H, sextet, J 6 Hz , 6.8 7.6 7H, m , 7.6 7.9 2H, m . IR CHCL3 cm Ú 2960, 1620, 1515, 1450, 1405, 1220, 1160, 1070, 1025, 920, 890, 740.Example 6 Syuthesis of 3 benzoyl 1 1 hepthyloxy 2 propyl 2 methylindole No. 325 The compound No. 100 obtained in Example 2 was reacted with n heptyl bromide in the same way as in Example 3 to afford the desired compound No. 325 in a yield of 42 . NMR CDCl3, ppm 0.83 br, t , 1,0 1.5 10H, br, s , 1.67 3H, d, J 7 Hz , 2.58 3H, s , 3.2 3.5 2H, m , 3.8 4.1 2H, m , 4.75 1H, sextet, J 7 Hz , 7.0 7.95 9H, m . IR CHCl3 cm 2950, 2900, 1620, 1405, 900.Example 7 Synthesis of l 1 acetoxy 2 R propyl 3 benzoyl 2 methylindole No. 217 The same reaction as in Example 1 was performed using DLalanine ethyl ester hydrochloride alpha D25 3.1 , c 1.00 methanol to afford the desired compound No.217 . alpha D19.2 9.6 , c 0.91 methanol,Example 8 Synthesis of l l acetoxy 2 S propyl 5 benzoyl 2 methylindole No. 218 The same reaction as in Example 1 was performed using I alanine ethyl ester hydrochloride alpha D25 3.8 , c 1.05 methanol to afford the desired compound No. 218 . alpha D19.2 10.7 , c 0.80 methanol.Example 9 Synthesis of 3 benzoyl 1 1 hydroxy 2 R propyl 2 methylindole No. 135 The compound No. 217 obtained in Example 7 was hydrolyzed to afford the desired compound No. 135 . alpha D19.2 20.0 , c 0.73 methanol. IR EBr cm l 3420, 1598, 1585, 1563, 1548, 1415, 1167, 1062, 867. NMR CDCl3, 6 ppm 1.60 3H, d, J 7Hz , 2.51 3H, s , 3.6 4.3 C2H, m , 4.3 4.9 1H, m , 6.9 7.8 9H, m .Example 10 Synthesis of 30 benzoyl 1 1 hydroxy 2 S propyl 2 methylindole No. 136 The compound No. 218 obtained in Example 8 was hydrolyzed to afford the desired compound No. 136 . alpha D19. 2 19.60, c 0.63 methanol. IR KBr cm Ú 3425, 1600, 1584, 1563, 1530, 1416, 1168, 1063, 863. NMR CDCl3, 6 ppm 1.60 3H, d, J 7 Hz , 2.51 3H, s , 3.6 4.3 2H, m , 4.3 4.9 1H, m , 6.9 7.8 9H, m .Example 11 Synthesis of 3 benzoyl 1 l methoxy 2 R propyl 2 methylindole No. 346 The compound No. 135 obtained in Example 9 was reacted with methyl iodide to afford the desired compound No. 346 . alpha D19.2 2.5 , c 0,84 methanol. IR liquid film cm Ú 3000, 1620, 1520, 1460, 1405, 1170, 1105, 900. NMR CDCl3 6 ppm 1.62 311, d, J 7 Hz , 2.51 311, s , 3.21 3H, s , 3.3 4.0 2H, m , 4.5 5.0 1H, m , 6,8 7.9 9H, m .Example 12 Synthesis of 3 benzoyl 1 l methoxy 2 S propyl 2 methylindole No. 347 The compound No. 136 obtained in Example 10 was reacted with methyl iodide to afford the desired compound No. 347 , alpha D19.2 1.6 , c 0.73 methanol. TR CHCl3 cm 1 3000, 1620, 1520, 1460, 1405, 1105, 900. NMR CDCl3, ppm 1.60 311, d, J 6 Hz , 2.51 3H, s , 3.21 3H, s , 3.3 3.9 211, m , 4.5 5.0 1H, m , 6.9 7.9 9H, m .Example 13 Synthesis of 3 benzoyl 1 1 hydroxy 2 propyl indole No. 111 , and 1 1 acetoxy 2 propyl 3 benzoylindole No. 202 1 0.6g of sodium hydride 50 , mineral oil was suspended in 5 ml of dimethylformamide. A solution of 1.17g 10 millimoles of indole in 10 ml of dimethylformamide was added dropwise to the suspension. After generation of hydrogen ceased, 1.6 ml of ethyl a bromopropionate was added dropwise, and reacted at room temperature for 5 hours.After the reaction, 100 ml of water was added to the reaction mixture, and the mixture was extracted with 100 ml of ethyl acetate. The organic layer was washed three times with 100 ml of water, and dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate. The solvent was distilled off under reduced pressure to afford an oily product0 NMR CDCl3, 6 ppm 1.12 3H, t, J 7 Hz , 1.72 3H, d, J 7 Hz , 4.13 2H, q, J 7 Hz , 5.05 1H, q, J 7 Hz , 4.87 lH, d, J 3 Hz , 6.95 7.40 4H, m , 7.55 7.75 1H, m . 2 The resulting product ethyl 2 indol 1 yl propi onate was reduced with 0.4g of lithium aluminum hydride in anhydrous ether. The product was acetylated with 5 ml of acetic anhydride and 10 ml of pyridine to afford l.69g yield 77 of l l acetoyy 2 propyI indole, NMR CDCl3, 6 ppm 1.50 3H, d, J 7 Hz , 1.85 3H, s , 4.08 2H, m , 4.77 1H, sextet, J 7 Hz , 6.52 1H, d, J 3 Hz , 6.9 7.4 4H, m , 7.5 7.75 1H, m . 3 A mixture of 1.51g 7 millimoles of the product obtained in 2 above, 3.14g 14 millimoles of benzoic anhydride and 0.2 ml of 5o hydriodic acid was stirred at 1400C for 1.5 hours. After the reaction, the reaction mixture was dissolved in 100 ml of ethyl acetate, and successively washed with 100 ml of a saturated aqueous solution of sodium bicarbonate, 100 ml of water and 100 ml of a saturated aqueous solution of sodium chloride. The product was dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate, and the solvent was distilled off under reduced pressure. The resulting oily product was chromatographed on a silica gel column using benzene ethyl acetate 25 1 as an eluent to afford 0.8g yield 37 of 1 1 acetoxy 2 propyl 3 benzoylindole No. 202 . NMR CDCl3, ppm 1.50 3H, d, J 7Hz , 1.83 3H, s , 4.0 ¹4 2H, m , 4.4 5.1 1H, m , 7.2 7.8 9H, m , 8.35 8.6 1H, m . 4 0.8g 2.5 millimoles of the product obtained in 3 above was hydrolyzed with 5 ml of a 1N aqueous solution of sodium hydroxide in 10 mi of methanol to afford the desired compound No. 111 in an amount of 595 mg yield 85P,o . 1, 3360 2970 1605 1570 1509 1481 Im 1460, 1407, 1382, 1306, 1230 1210, 1177, 1049, 875. NMR CDCl3 ppm 1.43 3H, d, J 7Hz , 3.2 1H, brs , 3.73 2H, br, s , 4.3 4.7 1H, m , 7.1 7.8 9H, m , 8.1 8.4 1H, m . Example 14 Synthesis of 3 benzoyl 5 chloro 1 1 hydroxy 2 propyl 2 methylindole No. 113 The same reaction as in Example 13 was performed using 5 chloro 3 methylindole and ethyl a bromopropionate to afford the desired compound No. 113 . Melting point 173 17500 ethanol NMR CDCl3, PPM 1.60 3H, d, J 7 Hz , 2.44 3H, 5 , 3.7 4.2 2H, m , 4.5 4.95 2H, m , 7.10 1H, dd, J 2, 9 Hz , 7.4 7.9 7H, m . IR KBr cm Ú 3455, 1602, 1572, 1520, 1450, 1410, 1358, 1230, 1216, 1164, 1078, 1048, 1008, 890, 878, 802, 798, 752, 722, 702. Example 15 Synthesis of 3 benzoyl 5 chloro 1 1 methoxy 2 propyl 2 methylindole No. 304 The compound No. 113 obtained in Example 14 was reacted with methyl iodide to afford the desired compound No. 304 . NMR CDCl3, ppm 1059 3H, d, J 7 Hz , 2.47 3H, 5 , 3.21 3H, s , 3.5 4.1 2H, m , 4.67 1H, m , 7.05 1H, dd, J 2, 9 Hz , 7.25 7.9 7H, m . IR CHCl3 cm Ú 1626, 1600, 1580, 1522, 1452, 1412, 1168, 1114, 1068, 1014, 940, 898.Example 16 Synthesis of 3 benzoyl 1 1 hydroxy 2 propyl 2,5 dimethylindole No. 114 The same reaction as in Example 13 was carried out using 2,5 dimethylindole and ethyl a bromopropionate to afford the desired compound No. 114 . NMR CDCl3, ppm 1.38 3H, d, J 6.5 Hz , 1.88 1H, dd, J 4.8 Hz, disappeared in D20 , 2.27 3H, 5 , 2.35 3H, s , 3.2 4.55 3H, m , 6.02 1H, s , 6.82 1H, dd, J l.9 Hz , 7.06 7.34 2H, m . IR KBr cm Ú 3370, 1600, 1582, 1562, 1516, 1402, 1236, 1180, 1158, 1052, 1016, 912, 888, 808, 794, 762, 732. Example 17 Synthesis of 3 benzoyl 1 1 ethoxy 2 propyl 2,5 dimethylindole No. 348 The compound No. 114 obtained in Example 16 was reacted with ethyl iodide to afford the desired compound No. 348 . Melting point 84 85 C cyclohexane . NMR CDG13, ppm 1.06 3H, t, J 7 Hz , 1.61 3H, d, J 7 Hz , 2.27 3H, s , 2.47 3H, s , 3.1 3.6 2H, m , 3.82 2H, dd, J 2, 7Hz , 4.4 4.93 1H, m , 6.82 7.9 8H, m . IR KBr cm1 1628, 1600, 1580, 1520, 1486, 1470, 1444, 1410, 1386, 1376, 1360, 1274, 1238, 1194, 1176, 1110, 1078, 1050, 900, 878, 792, 736, 708.Example 18 Synthesis of l l methoxy 2 propy1 2 methyl 3 thenoylindole No. 315 The same reaction as in Example 1 was carried out using 2 methylindole and methyl a bromopropionate to afford 1 1 acetoxy 2 propyl 2 methylindole. The product was hydrolyzed with sodium hydroxide, and then reacted with methyl iodide to form l l methoxy 2 propyl 2 methylindole.The product was then reacted with thiophenecarboxylic anhydride in 52Yo hydriodic acid to afford the desired compound No. 315 . IR CHCl3 cm Ú 1605, 1514, 1460, 1413, 1390, 1351, 1267, 1220, 1165, 1106, 1082, 834. NMR CDC13, 6 ppm 1.60 3H, d, J 6 Hz , 2.55 3H, 5 , 3.18 3H, s , 3.5 4.1 2H, m , 4.70 1E, sextet, J 6 Hz , 6.9 7.75 7H, m . Example 19 Synthesis of 1 1 hydroxy 2 propyl 2 methyl 3 o tolyl indole No. 126 The 1 1 acetoxy 2 propyl 2 methylindole obtained in Example 18 was acylated with o methylbenzoic anhydride, and then hydrolyzed to form the desired compound No. 126 . NMR CDCl3, 6 ppm 1046 3H, d, J 7 Hz , 2.21 3H,s , 2.40 3H, s , 3033 1H, bs , 3.45 4.20 2H, m . IR CHCl3 cm Ú 3400, 3040, 2920, 1600, 1565,, 1510, 1480, 1455, 1400, 1260, 1225, 1165, 1050, 920, 895, 760, 740.Example 20 Synthesis of l l acetoxy 2 propyl 3 benzoyl 5 methoxy 2 methylindole No. 219 , 3 benzoyl 1 1 hydroxy 2 propyl 5 methoxy 2 methylindole No. 116 , and 3 benzoyl 5 hydroxy 1 1 hydroxy 2 propyl 2 methylindole No. 117 5 Nethoxy 2 methylindole was reacted with ethyl alpha bromopropionate in the same way as in Example 13 to form 1 1 acetoxy 2 propyl 5 methoxy 2 methylindole. The resulting product was reacted with benzoic anhydride to obtain 1 1 acetoxy 2 propyl 3 benzoyl 5 methoxy 2methylindole No. 219 and 1 acetoxy 2 propyl 3 benzoyl 5 hydroxy 2 methylindole which were then hydrolyzed with sodium hydroxide to form the desired compounds No. 116 and No. 117 , respectively. Spectral data of the compound No. 219 IR CHCl3 cm Ú 2940, 1734, 1600, 1460, 1250 1210, 360. NMR CDCl3, ppm 1.60 3H, d, J 7 Hz , 1.89 3H, s , 2.47 311, s , 3.59 3H, s , 4.3 5.0 3H, m , 6,63 6l87 2H, m , 7.25 7.80 6H, m . Spectral data of the compound No. 116 IR CHCl3 cm Ú 3320, 2930, 2200, 1600, 1470, 1400, 1270, 1150, 900, 685. NMR CDCl3, ppm 1.57 3H, d, J 7 Hz , 2.41 3H, 5 , 2.7 1H, br, s , 3.57 3H, s , 3.7 4.8 3H, m , 6.57 6.83 2H, m , 7.20 7.75 6H, m . Spectral data of the compound No. 117 IR KBr cm Ú 3300, 3150, 1620, 1600, 1590, 1565, 1520, 1475, 1425, 1255, 1055, 880, 760. NMR DMSO d6, ppm 1.63 3H, d, J 7 Hz , 2.52 3H, s , 3.9 3H, m , 4.5 4.9 1H, m , 6.6 6.9 2H, m , 7.4 7.8 6H, m , 8.90 1H, br, s .Example 21 Synthesis of 3 benzoyl 5 methoxy 1 1 methoxy 2 propyl 2 methylindole No. 318 A mixture of 0.85g 3.2 millimoles of 5 methoxy1 1 methoxy 2 propyl 2 methylindole, 1.47g 6.4 millimoles of benzoic anhydride and 0.2 ml of 52 hydriodic acid was heated at 140 0C for 2 hours in a stream of nitrogen with stirring. The reaction mixture was worked up to separate 0.46g yield 43 of the desired compound No. 318 . IR CHCl3 cm Ú 2960, 2900, 1610, 1572, 1506, 1474, 1440, 1410, 1388, 1275, 1160, 1144, 1106, 1032, 905. NNR OI O 3, ppm 1.57 3H, d, J 7Hz , 2.47 3H, 5 , 3.20 3H, s , 3.59 3H, s , 3.60 2H, m , 4.63 1H, sextet, J 7Hz , 6.6 6.9 2H, m , 7.2 7.8 6H, m . Example 22 Synthesis of 3 benzoyl 2 isopropyl 1 1 methoxy 2 propyl indole No. 303 A mixture of 1.15g 5 millimoles of 2 isopropyll l methoxy 2 propyl indole, 2.26g 10 millimoles of benzoic anhydride and 0.3 ml of 52 hydriodic acid was heated at 14000 for 2 hours in a stream of nitrogen with stirring. The reaction mixture was worked up to separate 1.03g yield 62 of the desired compound No. 303 . IR CHCl3 CM Ú 3000, 2940, 1623, 1508, 1460, 1410, 1240 1205, 1103. NMR CDCl3, ppm 1.40 3H, d. 7 Hz , 1.43 3H, d, J 7 Hz , 1.60 3H, d, J 7 Hz , 3.23 3H, s , 3.67 1H, m , 3.80 2H, d, J 7 Hz , 4.83 1H, sextet, J 7 Hz , 6.8 7.9 9H, m .Example 23 Synthesis of 3 p chlorobenzoyl 1 l methoxy 2 propyl 2 methylindole No. 317 A mixture of 0.8g 4 millimoles of l 1 methoxy 2 propyl 2 methylindole, 3.48g 11.8 millimoles of pchlorobenzoic anhydride and 0.25 ml of 52 o hydriodic acid was heated at 1400C for 2.5 hours in a stream of nitrogen with stirring. The reaction mixture was worked up to separate 810 mg yield 66 of the desired compound No. 317 . IR liquid film cm Ú 2850, 1618, 1593, 1460, 1408, 1105, 1089, 898, 837. NMR CDCl3, ppm 1.62 3H, d, J 7Hz , 2458 3H, s , 3.26 3H, s , 3.8 2H, m , 4.76 1H, sextet, J 7Hz , 6.9 7.8 8H, m . Example 24 Synthesis of 3 benzoyl 1 1 hydroxy 3 pentyl 2 methylindole No. 106 The same reaction as in Example 13 was carried out using methyl 2 pentenoate and 2 methylindole to afford the desired compound No. 106 . IR CHCl3 cm Ú 3610, 3550, 3000, 2400, 1600, 1400, 1040, 900, 870. NMRCDCl3, ppm 0.75 3H, t, J 7Hz , 1.7 2.8 4H, m , 2.52 3H, s , 2.9 3.8 2H, m , 4.3 4.9 1H, m , 6.8 8.0 9H, m . Example 25 synthesis of 3 benzoyl 1 1 methoxy 3 pentyl 2 methylindole No. 319 The compound No. 106 obtained in Example 24 was reacted with methyl iodide to afford the desired compound No. 319 . IR KBr cm Ú 2945, 1617, 1520, 1410, 1233, 1105, 1077, 1052, 8950 NMR CDCl3, ppm 0.77 3H, t, J 7Hz , 1.6 3.5 6H, m , 2.51 3H, s , 3.20 3H, s , 4.2 4.8 1H, m 6.9 7.9 9H, m .Example 26 Synthesis of 3 benzoyl 1 1 ethoxy 3 pentyl 2 methylindole No. 320 The compound No. 106 obtained in Example 24 was reacted with ethyl iodide to afford the desired compound No. 320 in a yield of 58 . IR KBr cm Ú 2980, 2880, 1618, 1526, 1417, 1166, 1121, 861, 750. NMR CDCl3, ppm 0.76 3H, t, J 7Hz , 1.13 3H, t, J 7Hz , 1.6 3.1 6H, m , 2.53 3H, s , 3.1 3.6 2H, m , 4.3 4.9 1H, m , 6.9 7.9 9H, m .Example 27 Synthesis of 1 1 acstoxy 3 pentyl 3 benzoyl 2 methylindole No. 204 The compound No. 105 obtained in Example 24 was acetylated to afford the desired compound No. 204 in a yield of 76 . IR CHCl3 cm Ú 3480, 3000, 2900, 2400, 1900, 1740, 1620, 1580, 1520, 1460, 1410, 1170, 1100, 1040, 900, 670. NMR CDCl3, ppm 0.77 3H, t, J 7Hz , 1.6 2.8 4H, m , 1.90 3H, s , 2.52 3H, s , 3.4 4.7 3H, m , 6.8 7.9 9H, m .Example 28 Synthesis of 3 benzoyl 1 1 hydroxy 2 butyl 2 methylindole No. 104 , and l 1 acetoxy 2 butyl 3 benzoyl 2 methylindole No. 205 The same reaction as in Example 13 was carried out using ethyl a bromobutyrate to afford the desired compounds No. 104 and No. 205 . Spectral data of the compound No. 104 IR CHCl3 cm Ú 3370, 1613, 1573, 1512, 1460, 1448, 1410, 1390, 1230 1195, 1053. NMR CDCl3, ppm 0.72 3H, t, J 7 Hz , 1.7 2.5 2H, m , 2.38 3H, s , 3.0 3H, br , 3.6 4.5 3H, m , 7.8 8.75 9H, m . Spectral data of the compound No. 205 IR CHCl3 cm 1 1733, 1620, 1517, 1458, 1447, 1410, 1387, 1365, 1250, 1200, 1040. NMR CDCl3, ppm 0.80 3H, t, J 7Hz , 1.88 3H, s , 1.8 2.3 2H, m , 2.55 3H, s , 4.35 4.7 3H, m , 6.8 7.9 9H, m . Example 29 Synthesis of 3 benzoyl 1 91 methoxy 2 butyl 2 methylindole No. 311 The compound No. 104 obtained in Example 28 was reacted with methyl iodide to afford the desired compound No. 311 . IR CHCl3 cm Ú 1613, 1576, 1510, 1460, 1450, 1409, 1390, 1358, 1230 1210, 1168, 1005. NMR CDCl3, ppm 0.77 3H, t, J 7Hz , 2.32 quintet, J 7Hz , 2.53 3H, s , 3.18 3H, s , 3.55 4.1 211, m , 4.15 4.75 1H, m , 6.9 7.9 9H, m . Example 30 Synthesis of 3 benzoyl 1 1 ethoxy 2 hbutyl 2 methylindole No. 312 The compound No. 104 obtained in Example 28 was reacted with ethyl iodide to afford the desired compound No. 312 . IR CHCl3 cm 1 1616, 1513, 1460, 1448, 1410, 1230 1200, 1122, 1106. SMss CDCl3, ppm 0.77 3H, t, J 7Hz 1.02 3H, t, J 7 Hz , 1.8 2.4 2H, m , 2.52 3H, s , 3.05 3.7 2H, m , 3.7 4.1 2H, m , 4.2 4.7 1H, m , 6.85 7.8 9H, m .Example 31 Synthesis of 3 benzoyl l l hydroxy 2 heyl 2 methylindole No. 102 2 Methylindole 6.5 g 0.05 millimole was dissolved in 30 ml of dimethylformamide, and with stirring under ice cooling, 2.5g of sodium hydride 50 0 was added.After generation of hydrogen ceased, 10.5g of methyl abromocaproate was added dropwise, and reacted at room temperature for 3 days. Water 200 ml was added to the reaction mixture to stop the reaction. The mixture was then extracted with 200 ml of ethyl acetate, washed with water and an aqueous solution of sodium chloride, and then dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate. The dried product was concentrated under reduced pressure. The resulting oily product was chromatographed on a silica gel column using hexane ethyl acetate 15 1 as an eluent to afford 7.64g yield 59 of methyl 2 2 methylindol l yl caproate. The resulting ester 7.64g was dissolved in 40 ml of ether. With stirring under ice cooling, l.Og of lithium aluminum hydride was added. With ice cooling, the mixture was stirred at room temperature for 30 minutes, and treated with a saturated aqueous solution of sodium sulfate. The resulting oily product was chromatographed on a silica gel column using benzene as an eluent to afford 3.0g of 1 1 hydroxy 2 hexyl 2 methylindole. The resulting product 3.Og was reacted with 5 ml of acetic anhydride and 5 ml of pyridine to afford 3.25g of 1 1 acetoxy 2 hexyl 2 methylindole. The resulting acetate 3.25g 11.9 millimoles was benzoylated using 5.40g 24 millimoles of benzoic anhydride and then hydrolyzed to afford 2.05g yield 51 based on the acetate of the desired compound No. 102 . NMR CDCl3, ppm 0.78 3H, s , 0.9 1.4 4H, m , 1.6 2.1 2H, m , 2.43 3H, s , 3.3 1H, br , 3.5 4.4 3H, br, m , 7.0 7.85 9H, m . IR CHCl3 cm 3430, 2950, 2880, 1620, 1570, 1520, 1460, 1400, 1260, 1160, 1060, 890.Example 32 Synthesis fo 1 l acetoxy 2 hexyl 3 benzoyl 2 methylindole No. 206 500 mg of the compound No. 102 obtained inExample 31 was reacted with 2 ml of acetic anhydride and 2 ml of pyridine to afford 560 mg yield 100 of the desired compound No. 206 . NMR CDCl3, ppm 0.79 3H, brt, J 6 Hz , 1.0 1.5 4H, m , 1.88 3H, s , 1.55 2.0 2H,m , 2.58 3H, s , 4,4 4.8 311, m , 7.0 7.95 9X, m . IR CHCl3 cm Ú 2930, 1740, 1620, 1404, 890.Example 33 Synthesis of 3 benzoyl 1 1 methoxy 2 hexyl 2 methylindole No. 334 853 mg 2.5 millimoles of the compound No. 102 obtained in Example 31 was dissolved in 5 ml of dimethylformamide, and with stirring under ice cooling, 124 mg 1.1 equivalents of sodium hydride 52.9 was added to form the corresponding sodium salt. Then, 1 ml of methyl iodide was added, and the mixture was maintained at room temperature for 12 hours. The reaction mixture was worked up to separate the desired compound No. 334 in a yield of 85 . NMR CDCl3, ppm 0.82 3H, brt, J 6 Hz , 1.0 1.5 4H, m , 1.8 2.4 211, m , 2.56 3H, s , 3.22 3H, s , 3.6 4.15 2H, m, ABX , 4.25 4.9 1H, m , 7 0 8.95 911, m . IR CHCl3 cm Ú 2950, 1628, 1533, 1418, 1385, 1110, 895, 755. Example 34 Synthesis of 3 benzoyl 1 1 hydroxy 2 octyl 2 methylindole No. 103 The same reaction as in Example 31 was carried out using 2 methylindole and ethyl a bromocaprylate to afford the desired compound No. 103 . NMR CDCl3, ppm 0.81 3H, brt, J 6 Hz , 1.0 1.4 8H, m , 1.7 2.1 2H, m , 1.05 3H, t, J 7 Hz , 3.32 2H, q, J 7Hz , 2.45 3H, s , 3.80 2H,m , 4.2 4.7 1H, m , 7.0 7.9 9H, m . IR KBr cm Ú 3300, 2950, 1630, 1527, 1462, 1418, 1215, 1065, 748.Example 35 Synthesis of l l acetoxy 2 octyl 3 benzoyl 2 methylindole No. 207 The compound No. 103 obtained in Example 34 was acetylated to afford the desired compound No. 207 in a yield of 98 . IR liquid film cm1 3030, 2950, 2900, 1740, 1630, 1580, 1520, 1460, 1420, 1170, 1040, 900. NMR CDCl3, ppm 0.5 2.5 13H, m , 1.91 3H, s , 2.52 3H, s , 4.3 4.8 3K, m , 6.9 8.0 9H, m .Example 36 Synthesis of 3 benzoyl 1 1 methoxy 2 octyl 2 methylindole No. 335 The compound No, 103 obtained in Example 34 was reacted with methyl iodide to afford the desired compound No. 335 . IR KBr cm Ú 2950, 2900, 2870, 1630, 1600, 1530, 1460, 1420, 1220, 1120, 1080, 900, 800, 740. NMR CDCl3, ppm 0.6 2.3 13H, m , 2.53 3H, s , 3.55 3H, s , 3.5 4.0 2H, m , 4.2 4.8 1H, m , 6.9 7.9 9H, m . Example 37 Synthesis of 3 benzoyl 1 1 ethoxy 2 octyl 2 methylindole No. 336 The compound No. 103 obtained in Example 34 was reacted with ethyl iodide to afford the desired compound No. 336 in a yield of 80 . NMR CDCl3, ppm 0.81 3H, brt, J 6 Hz , 1.0 1.4 8H, m , 1.7 2.1 2H, m , 1.05 3H, t, J 7 Hz , 3.32 2H, q, J 7 Hz , 2.45 3H, s , 3.80 2H, m , 1. 4.2 4.7 1H, m , 7.0 7.9 9H, m . IR CRC 3 cm Example 38 Synthesis of 3 benzoyl 1 4 hydroxy 2 butyl 2 methylindole No. 105 1 2 Methylindole 13.1g 0.1 millimole was reacted with 23.6g 0.236 mole of methyl crotonate in 80 ml of dimethyl formamide in the presence of 0.6g 0.012 mole of sodium hydride at room temperature for 20 hours. After the reaction, water was added, and the reaction mixture was extracted with ethyl acetate. The organic layer was deried over anhydrous magnesium acetate, and concentrated to afford 34g of a crude product. The crude product was reduced with 9.5g 0.25 mole of lithium aluminum hydride in 250 ml of ether at room temperature for 18 hours with stirring.After the reaction, the reaction mixture was worked up with a saturated aqueous solution of sodium sulfate, washed with ether, dried over magnesium sulfate, and concentrated to afford 22.8g of a crude product. The product was chromatographed on a silica gel column using hexane ethyl acetate 2 1 as an eluent to afford 8.00g 39.4 millimoles yield 39.4 of 1 1 hydroxy 3 butyl 2 methylindole. NMR CDCl3, 6 ppm 1.30 br, 1H, OH , 1.57 d, 3H, J 7Hz, NCHCiI , 1.7 2.3 m, 2H, CH2CH2OH , 2.40 s, 3H, CH3 , 2.8 3.7 m, 2H, CH20H , 4.4 5.0 m, 1H, NCH , 6.16 s, 1H, proton at the 3 position of indole , 6.8 7.6 m, 4H, proton on the indole ring . IR liquid film cm 1 3300, 3000, 2900, 2850, 1600, 1540, 1450, 1405, 1355, 1335, 1300, 1230, 1160, 1140, 1100, 1035, 985, 950, 915, 840, 760, 740, 730. 2 8. 00g of 1 1 hydroxy 3 butyl 2 methylindole was reacted with 30 ml of acetic anhydride and 25 ml of pyridine for 20 hours to afford 9.Og 36.7 millimoles yield 93.2 of 1 1 acetoxy 3 butyl 2 methylindole. NMR CDCl3, ppm 1.57 d, 3H, J 7Hz, NCHCH3 , 1.92 s, 3H, OCOCH3 , 1.9 2.6 m, 2H, NCHCH2 , 2.38 S, 3H, CH3 , 3.6 4.2 m, 2H, CH20CO , 4.3 4.9 m, 1H, NCH , 6.26 s, 1H, proton at the 3 position of indole , 7.0 7.7 m, 4H, proton on the indole ring . 3 9.Og of 1 1 acetoxy 3 butyl 2 methylindole was reacted with 20.7g 91.8 millimoles of benzoic anhydride and 0.5 ml of hydriodic acid in an atmosphere of nitrogen at 14000 for 1.5 hours. After cooling, ethanol, water and sodium hydroxide were added to the reaction mixture. The mixture was stirred at room temperature for 3 hours to hydrolyze the reaction product. The product was concentrated under reduced pressure, extracted with ethyl acetate, washed with an aqueous solution of sodium hydrogen carbonate, dried and concentrated. The crude product was chromatographed on a silica gel column using hexane ethyl acetate 1 1 as an eluent to afford 6.69g 21.8 millimoles yield 59.4 of the desired compound No. 105 . NtYR CDCZ3, 6 ppm 1.63 d, 3H, J 6.5Hz, NCHCH3 , 1.9 2.5 m, 2H, NCHCH2 , 2.53 s, 3H, CH3 , 2.75 bs, 1H, OH , 3.1 3.7 m, 2H, CH20H , 4.5 5.2 m, 1H, NCH , 7.0 7.95 m, 9H, protons on the indole and benzene rings . IR EBr cm l 3350, 3000, 2880, 2830, 1600, 1565, 1505, 1450, 1435, 1400, 1350, 1295, 1260, 1220, 1160, 1150, 1075, 1050, 1030, 920, 890, 860, 790, 735, 705, 685.Example 39 Synthesis of 1 4 acetoxy 2 butyl 3 benzoyl 2 methylindole No. 201 Acetic anhydride 20 ml and 15 ml of pyridine were added to 2.26g 7.36 millimoles of the compound No. 105 obtained in Example 38, and the mixture was stirred at room temperature for 1 hour to decompose the acetic anhydride. The product was concentrated under reduced pressure. The crude product was dissolved in ethyl acetate and was washed successively with an aqueous solution of potassium hydrogen sulfate, an aqueous solution of sodium chloride and an aqueous solution of sodium hydrogen carbonate, dried over magnesium sulfate and concentrated to afford 2.70g of the crude product.The crude product was chromatographed on a silica gel column using hexane ethyl acetate 2z1 as an eluent to afford 2.29g 6.56 millimoles yield 89.2 of the desired compound No. 201 . NMR CDCl3, ppm 1.67 d,3H, J 7Hz, NCHCH3 , 1.93 s, 3H, OCOCH3 , 2.1 2.6 m, 2H, NCHCH2 , 2.57 s, 3H, CH3 , 3.8 4.4 Cm, 2H, CH20CO , 4.5 5.1 m, 1H, NCH , 7.03 8.0 m, 4H, protons on the indole and benzene rings . IR liquid film e 3019, 2949, 1730, 1615, 1570, 1510, 1450, 1405, 1380, 1360, 1300, 1230, 1165, 1130, 1100, 1050, 1030, 920, 890, 870, 795, 740, 715, 690. Example 40 Synthesis of 3 benzoyl 1 4 methoxy 2 butyl 2 methylindole No. 306 The compound No. 105 obtained in Example 38 1.50g 4.89 millimoles was reacted with 367 mg 7.35 millimoles of sodium hydride and 5 ml of methyl iodide in 8 ml of dimethoxyethane at room temperature for 20 hours.The reaction mixture was worked up to afford 1.514g of a crude product. The crude product was chromatographed on a silica gel column using hexane ethyl acetate 3 1 as an eluent to afford 1.301g 4.05 millimoles yield 82.9 o of the desired compound No. 306 . Melting point 91 9300 NMR CDCl3, ppm 1.65 d, 3H, J 7Hz, NCHCH3 , 1.8 2.5 m, 2H, NCHCH2 , 2.56 s, 3H, CH3 , 3.23 s, 3H, OCH3 , 3.30 t, 2H, J 6Hz, CH2O , 4.6 5.1 m, 1H, NCH , 7.0 8.0 m, 9H, protons on the indole and benzene rings . IR EBr cm l 3020, 2940, 2890, 2840, 1620, 1600, 1570, 1515, 1455, 1440, 1410, 1380, 1350, 1310, 1295, 1265, 1230, 1185, 1165, 1110, 1090, 1040, 1020, 920, 890, 865, 795, 740, 715, 690.Example 41 Synthesis of 3 benzoyl 1 4 ethoxy 2 butyl 2 methylindole No. 307 The compound No. 105 obtained in Example 38 1.50g 4.89 millimoles was reacted with 367 mg 7.34 millimoles of sodium hydride and 5 ml of ethyl iodide in 18 ml of dimethoxyethane at room temperature for 20 hours.The reaction mixture was worked up, and the crude product was chromatographed on a silica gel column using hexane ethyl acetate 3 1 as an eluent to afford 1.359g 4.06 millimoles 83.0 of the desired compound No. 307 . Melting point 74 to 76 C NMR CDCl3, ppm 1.10 t, 3H, J 7Hz, OCH2CH3 , 1.60 d, 3H, J 7Hz, NCHCH3 , 1.9 2.8 m, 2H, NCHCH2 , 2.57 s, 3H, CH3 . 3.0 3.55 m, 4H, CH20CH2 , 4.6 5.1 m, 1H, NCH , 7.0 8.0 m, 4H, protons on the indole and benzene rings . IR KBr cm Ú 3020, 2950, 2900, 2840, 1610, 1600, 1570, 1520, 1475, 1450, 1440, 1410, 1380, 1350, 1310, 1300, 1260, 1230, 1165, 1135, 1115, 1095, 1070, 1045, 1020, 1010, 985, 960, 920, 895, 870, 855 815, 795, 760, 740, 720, 690.Example 42 Synthesis of 3 o fluorobenzoyl 1 4 hydroxy 2 butyl 2 methylindole No. 125 The 1 l acetoxy 3 butyl 2 methylindole obtained in Example 38 was reacted with o fluorobenzoic anhydride, and the reaction product was hydrolyzed to afford the desired compound No. 125 . NMR CDCZ3, , ppm 1.55 3H, d,J 6Rz , 1.9 2.4 2H, m , 3.03 1H, bs , 3.1 3.6 2H, m , 4.5 5.1 1H, m . IR CHCl3 cm Ú 3450, 3050, 2970, 2930, 2870, 1605, 1570, 1510 1480, 1460, 1450, 1410, 1360, 1215, 1100, 930, 755, 630. Example 43 Synthesis of 3 benzoyl l 4 hydroxy 2 butyl 2,5 dimethylindole No. 137 The same reaction as in Example 38 was carried out using 2,5 dimethylindole and methyl crotonate to afford the desired compound No. 137 . NMR CDCl3, ppm 1.61 3H, d, J 7 Hz , 1.8 2.8 3H, m , 2.25 3H, s, 2.48 3H, s , 3.1 3.8 2H, m , 4.5 5.15 1H, m , 6.8 7.9 8H, m . IR KBr cm Ú 3370, 1584, 1562, 1516, 1404, 1234, 1180, 1158, 1052, 1016, 912, 888, 808, 794, 762, 730, 702, 696.Example 44 Synthesis of 3 benzoyl 1 4 methoxy 2 butyl 2,5 dimethylindole No. 310 The compound No. 137 obtained in Example 43 was reacted with methyl iodide to afford the desired compound No. 310 . NMR CDCl3, ppm 1.63 3H, d, J 7Hz , 2.29 3H, s , 2.49 3H, s , 3.23 3H, s , 1.8 3.5 411, m , 4.45 5.1 1H, m , 6.85 8.0 8H, m . IR EBr cm 1 1620, 1600, 1580, 1522, 1418.Example 45 Synthesis of 3 benzoyl 1 7 hydroxy 2 heptyl 2 methylindole No. 108 1 A solution 10 ml of 2.5g of 1 4 bromo 2butyl 2 methylindole in tetrahydrofuran was added to a mixture of 228 mg 9.4 millimoles of metallic magnesium and a trace of iodine, and the mixture was stirred at room temperature for 2 hours. Then, 100 mg of cuprous iodide and 5 ml of a tetrahydrofuran solution of 3.14g 14.1 millimoles of a tetrahydrofuran protected product of 3 bromo 1 propanol were added. The mixture was stirred at room temperature for 2 hours.After the reaction, the reaction mixture was extracted with ether, washed with a saturated aqueous solution of sodium hydrogen carbonate and a saturated aqueous solution of sodium chloride, dried over sodium sulfate, and concentrated under reduced pressure to afford 4.2g of an oily product. The oily product was deprotected with 37 HClO4 in 40 ml of methanol to afford l.404g of 1 7 hydroxy 2 heptyl 2 methylindole. NMR CDCZ3, o ppm 1.51 3R, d, J 7Hz , 2.34 3H, s , 3.43 3H, t, J 6Hz , 6.14 1H, bs , 6.8 7.6 4H,.m . 2 1. 372g of the 1 7 hydroxy 2 heptyl 2 methyl indole obtained in 1 above was acetylated with acetic anhydride and pyridine to afford 1.448g of the corresponding acetyl compound. 3 1.448g of the acetyl compound was reacted with 1.88 ml 10 millimoles of benzoic anhydride and then hydrolyzed to afford the desired compound No. 108 . IR CHCl3 cm 1 3700 3200, 2950, 1620, 1522, 1415, 1235, 1168, 545. Example 46 Synthesis of 3 benzoyl 1 7 ethoxy 2 heptyl 2 methylindole No. 328 The compound No. 108 obtained in Example 45 was reacted with ethyl iodide to afford the desired compound No. 328 in a yield of 16.9 . NMR CDCl3, ppm 0.83 2.4 8H, m , 1.11 3H, t, J 7 Hz , 1.63 3H, d, J 7 Hz , 2.57 3H, s , 3.30 2H, q, J 7Hz , 3.31 2H, t, J 7 Hz , 4.28 4.8 1H, m , 6.93 7.93 9H, m . IR CHCl2 cm Ú 3000, 2950, 2900, 1620, 1520, 1460, 1410, 1110, 900, 860.Example 47 Synthesis of 3 benzoyl 11 hydroxy 2undecyl 2 methylindole No. 110 The same reaction as in Example 45 was carried out using 1 4 bromo 2 butyl 2 methylindole and 7 bromoheptanol tetrahydropyranyl ether to afford the desired compound No. 110 . IR liquid film cm Ú 3700 3200, 2950, 1625, 1418, 548. NMR CDCl3, ppm 0.9 1.5 16H, br , 1.59 3H, d, J 7 Hz , 2.53 3H, s , 3.53 2H, t, J 6 Hz , 4.52 1H, br. sextet, J 7 Hz , 6.8 7.8 9H, m . IR CHCl3 cm Ú 3025, 2950, 2880, 1620, 1520, 1460, 1410, 1270, 1170, 1020, 900, 870.Example 48 Synthesis of 3 benzoyl 1 11 ethoxy 2 undecyl 2 methylindole No. 330 The compound No. 110 obtained in Example 48 was reacted with ethyl iodide to afford the compound No. 330 . EMR CDCZ3, ppm 0.9 2.33 19H, m , 1.62 3H, d, J 7 Hz , 2.56 3H, s , 3.36 2H, t, J 7 Hz , 3.39 2H, q, J 7 Hz , 4.3 4.8 1H, m , 6.9 7.9 9H, m . IR CHCl3 cm Ú 3000, 2950, 2900, 1620, 1520, 1460, 1410, 1270, 1170, 1110, 900.Example 49 Synthesis of 3 benzoyl l 1 ethylthio 2 propyl 2 methylindole No. 400 586 mg 2 mmoles of the compound No. 100 obtained in Example 2, 732 mg 6 miilimoles of diethyl sulfide and 1.5 ml 6 millimoles of tributylphosphine were dissolved in 1 ml of anhydrous pyridine. The solution was stirred at room temperature for 16 horus and then at 50 C for 8 horus. After the reaction, the reaction mixture was dissolved in 50 ml of ethyl acetate, and washed successively with 25 ml of 1N HC1, 20 ml of a saturated aqueous solution of sodium bicarbonate, 20 ml of water and 20 ml of a saturated aqueous solution of sodium chloride. The ethyl acetate layer was dried over magnesium sulfate, and the ethyl acetate was distilled off under reduced pressure to afford an oily product.The oily product was chromatographed on a silica gel column using benzene as an eluent to afford 519 mg yield 77 of the desired compound No. 400 . NMR CDCl3, ppm 1.08 3H, t, J 7 Hz , 1.71 3H, d, J 7 Hz , 2.28 2H, q, J 7 Hz , 2.60 3H, s , 3.18 2H, m , 4.75 1H, m , 7.0 8.0 9H, m . 1 IR OHO 3 cm 3000, 2945, 1620, 1522, 1460, 1415, 1267, 1166, 897. Example 50 Synthesis of 3 benzoyl 2 mettyl 1 1 phenylthio 2 propyl indole No. 401 The same reaction as in Example 49 was carried out at room temperature for 16 hours using diphenyl disulfide to afford the desired compound No. 401 . NMR CDCl3, 6 ppm 1.67 3H, d, J 7Hz , 2.32 3H, s , 3.50 2H, m , 4.67 1H, m , 7.0 8.0 14H, m . IR CHCl3 cm Ú 3050, 1618, 1520, 1457, 1405, 1223, 1163, 735. Example 51 Synthesis of 3 benzoyl 1 1 ethylthio 2 butyl 2 methylindole No. 417 The same reaction as in Example 49 was carried out using the compound No. 104 obtained in Example 28 and diethyl sulfide to. afford the desired compound No.417 in a yield of 75 . NMR CDCl3, ppm 0.79 3H, t, J 7 Hz , 1.07 3H, t, J 7 Hz , 1.85 2.50 4H, m , 2.60 3H, s , 3.18 2H, m , 4.16 4.60 1H, m , 6,86 8.00 9H, m . IR CHCl3 cm Ú 2950 2895, 1620, 1520, 1458, 1405, 1270, 1167, 908.Example 52 Synthesis of 3 benzoyl 2 methyl 1 1 phenylthio 2 butyl indole No. 418 The same reaction as in Example 49 was carried out at room temperature for 16 hours using the compound No. 104 obtained in Example 28 and diphenyl disulfide to afford the desired compound No. 418 in a yield of 69 NMR CDCl3, ppm 0.77 3H, t, J 7 Hz , 1.85 2.70 2H, m , 2.33 3H, s , 3.45 3.75 2H, m , 4.15 4.60 1H, m , 7.0 8.0 14H, m . IR CHCl3 cm Ú 1620, 1458, 1408, 902.Example 53 Synthesis of 3 benzoyl 2 methyl 1 1 methylthio 2 propyl indole No. 402 The same reaction as in Example 49 was carried out using dimethyl sulfide to afford the desired compound No. 402 in a yield of 54 . NMR CDCl3, o ppm 1.62 3H, d, J 7 Hz , 1.68 3H, s , 2.53 3H, s , 2.83 3.23 2H, m , 4.4 4.87 1H, m , 6.8 7.9 9H, m . 9H, 1 3020, 2945, 1622, 1525, 1460, 1409, IR CHCl3 cm 1270, 1168, 1057, 900.Example 54 Synthesis of 3 benzoyl 2 methyl 1 1 2 pyridylthio 2 propyl indole No. 405 The same reaction as in Example 49 was carried out at room temperature for 16 hours using 2,2 dithiodipyridine to afford the desired compound No. 405 in a yield of 99 . NMR CDCl3, ppm 1.77 3H, d, J 7 Hz , 2.47 3H, s , 3.82 2H, d, J 7 Hz , 4.95 1H, sextet, J 7 Hz 6.9 8.0 12H, m , 8.4 8.6 1H, m . IR CHCl3 cm Ú 3000, 1618, 1577, 1455, 1408, 1163, 1122, 895.Exampel 55 Synthesis of 3 benzoyl 1 4 ethylthio 2 butyl 2 methylindole No. 409 The same reaction as.in Example 49 was carried out using the compound No. 105 obtained in Example 38 and diethyl sulfide to afford the desired compound No.409 in a yield of 74 . NMR CDCl3, ppm 1.12 3H, t, J 7 Hz , 1.60 3H, d, J 7Hz , 2.2 2.6 6H, m , 2.60 3H, s , 4.8 1H, m , 7.0 8.0 9H, m . IR CHCl3 cm Ú 2980, 2945, 1619, 1520, 1458, 1407, 1262, 1167, 895.Example 56 Synthesis of 3 benzoyl 2 methyl 1 1 2 pyridylthio 2 butyl indole No. 421 The same reaction as in Example 51 was carried out using 2,2 dithiodipyridine at room temperature for 16 hours to afford the desired compound No. 421 in a yield of 68 . NMR CDCl3, ppm 0.79 3H, t, J 7 Hz , 2.40 3H, 5 , 1.90 2.40 2H, m , 3.86 2H, d, J 8 Hz , 4.50 5.00 1H, m , 6.80 8.57 13H, m . IR CHCl3 cm Ú 2980, 1620, 1580, 1520, 1455, 1407, 1126.Example 57 Synthesis of 3 benzoyl 2 methyl 1 1 4 pyridiylthio 2 propyl indole No. 404 The same reaction as in Example 49 was carried out at room temperature for 16 hours using 4,4 dithiodipyridine to afford the desired compound No. 404 in a yield of 58 . NMR CDCl3, ppm 1.77 3H, d, J 7 Hz , 2.41 3H, s , 3.4 3.8 2H, m , 4.4 5.1 1H, m , 6.8 7.9 llH, m , 8.0 8.33 2H, m . IR CHCl3 cm Ú 3005, 1625, 1577, 1525, 1460, 1408, 1268, 1167, 898. Example 58 Synthesis of 3 benzoyl 2 methyl 1 4 4 pyridylthio 2 butyl indole No. 413 The same reaction as in Example 49 was carried out at room temperature for 16 hours using the compound No. 105 obtained in Example 38 and 4,4 dithiodipyridine to afford the desired compound No. 413 in a yield of 75 . IR CHCl3 cm Ú 3000, 2450, 2400, 1620, 1580, 1400, 1260, 1020, 910.Example 59 Synthesis of 3 benzoyl 2 methyl l 1 4 pyridylthio 2 butyl indole No. 420 The same reaction as in Example 51 was carried out using 4,4 dithiodipyridine to afford the desired compound No. 420 in a yield of 78 . NMR CDCl3, ppm 0.80 3H, t, J 7Hz , 2.40 3H, s , 1.9 2.9 2H, m , 3.2 4.1 2H, m , 4.2 4.8 1H, m , 6.8 7.9 llH, m , 8.1 8.5 2H, m IR CHCB3 cm 1 2990, 1710, 1625, 1580, 1530, 1460, 1410, 1270, 1165, 905.Example 60 Synthesis of 3 benzoyl 2 methyl 1 4 2 pyridylthio 2 butyl indole No. 414 The same reaction as in Example 8 was carried out using 2,2 dithiodipyridine to afford the desired compound No. 414 in a yield of 74 . IR CHCl3 cm Ú 3000, 1620, 1580, 1520, 1460, 1405, 1260, 1120, 900. NMR CDCl3, ppm 1.65 3H, d, J 7Hz , 2.0 3.0 4H, m , 2.53 3H, s , 4.5 5.1 1H, m , 6.7 7.9 llH, m , 8.1 8.5 2H, m . Example 61 Synthesis of 3 benzoyl 2 methyl 1 4 phenyl thio 2 butyl indole No. 410 The same reaction as in Example 1 was carried out using the compound No. 105 obtained in Example 38 and diphenyl disulfide to afford the compound No. 410 in a yield of 79 0. NMR CDCl3, ppm 1.60 3H, d, J 7Hz , 2.1 2.9 4H, m , 2.58 3H, s , 4.8 1H, m , 7.0 8.0 1411, m . IR CHCl3 cm Ú 3025, 1620, 1580, 1520, 1460, 1410, 1270, 1170, 1030, 900.Example 62 Synthesis of 3 benzoyl 2 methyl 1 1 5 methyl 1.3,5 thiadiazol 2 ylthio propyl indole No. 407 2.62 g 0.02 mole of 2 mercapto 5 methyl1,3,4 thiadiazole was dissolved in 50 ml of methylene chloride. While the solution was cooled with ice with stirring, a solution of 4.46 g 1.1 equivalents of 85 m chloroperbenzoic acid in 20 ml of methylene chloride was added dropwise and reacted for 1 hour. After the reaction, the reaction mixture was washed with a saturated aqueous solution of sodium bicarbonate, water and an aqueous solution of sodium chloride, dried over magnesium sulfate, and then distilled under reduced pressure to afford 2.3 g 8.8 millimoles of a disulfide compound.Using the resulting disulfide and the compound No. 100 obtained in Example 2, the same reaction as in Example 49 was performed to afford the desired compound No. 407 in a yield of 57 . NMR CDCl3, ppm 1.77 311, d, J 6Hz , 2.43 3H, s , 2.63 3H, s , 3.90 2H, d, J 6Hz , 5.20 1H, sextet, J 6Hz , 7.0 7.9 9H, m . IR CHCl3 cm Ú 3000, 1620, 1520, 1460, 1410, 1380, 1270, 1165, 1070, 900. Example 63 Synthesis of l l benzenesulfinyl 2 propyl 3 benzoyl 2 methylindole No. 501 570 mg 1.54 millimoles of the compound No.401 obtained in Example 50 was dissolved in 50 ml of methanol, and an aqueous solution of 414 mg 1.93 millimoles of sodium metaperiodate in 30 ml of water was added. The mixture was stirred at room temperature for 2 hours in a stream of nitrogen. After the reaction, the reaction mixture was dissolved in 50 ml of ethyl acetate, and washed with 30 ml of water. The ethyl acetate layer was dried over sodium sulfate, and the ethyl acetate was distilled off under reduced pressure to form an oily product. The oily product was chromatographed on a silica gel column using a mixture composed of 67 of benzene and 33 of hexane as an eluent to afford 280 mg yield 47 0 of the desired compound No.501 . NMR CDC 3, 6 ppm 1.70 1.5H, d, J 7Hz , 1.80 1.5H, d, J 7Hz , 2.42 1.5H, s , 2.65 1.5H, s , 2.9 3.8 2H, m , 4.9 5.5 1H, m , 6.6 8.3 14H, m . R KBr cm Ú 1622, 1525, 1410, 1030, 742.Example 64 Synthesis of 3 benzoyl l 1 methanesulfinyl 2 propyl 2 methylindole No. 502 The same reaction as in Example 63 was carried out using the compound No. 402 obtained in Example 53 to afford the desired compound No. 502 in a yield of 71 . NMR CDCB3, ppm 1.77 3H, d, J 7Hz , 2.45 3H, s , 2.57 3H, s , 2.8 4.0 2H, m , 4.8 5.5 1H, m , 6 9 7.9 9H, m . IR KBr cm Ú 1621, 1520, 1462, 1405, 1273, 1232 1165, 1058, 1035, 900, 745. Example 65 Synthesis of 3 benzoyl 1 4 mercapto 2 butyl 2 methylindole No. 423 1.00 g 3.26 millimoles of the compound No.105 obtained in Example 38 and 1.75 g 6.52 millimoles of triphenylphosphine were dissolved in 30 ml of ether, and 2.21 g 6.52 millimoles of tetrabromomethane was added. The reaction was performed at room temperature for 12 hours. Then, the reaction mixture was worked up in a customary manner to afford 1.30 g of a crude product.The crude product was chromatographed on a silica gel column using benzene as an eluent to afford 1.17 g yield 97 of 3 benzoyl 1 4 bromo 2 butyl 2 methylindole.1.17 g of the resulting bromo substituted product and 241 mg 3.16 millimoles of thiourea were dissolved in 5 ml of dimethylsulfoxide and reacted at room temperature for 12 hours. After the reaction, the reaction mixture was poured into 20 ml of a 10 aqueous solution of sodium hydroxide. Then, a saturated aqueous solution of ammonium sulfate was added, and the mixture was extracted with ethyl acetate. The organic layer was washed, dried and concentrated to afford 873 mg of a crude product. The crude product was subjected to thin layer chromatography benzene ethyl acetate 97 3 to afford 350 mg yield 34Ph of the desired compound No. 423 . SMR CDCJ3, ppm 1.58 3H, d, J 7Hz , .57 3H, s , 4.8 1H, m , 6.95 7.9 9H . IR CHCl3 cm Ú 2550.Example 66 Synthesis of 1 4 benzenesulfinyl 2 butyl 3 benzoyl 2 methylindole No. 507 The same reaction as in Example 63 was carried out using the compound No. 410 obtained in Example 61 to afford the desired compound No. 507 in a yield of 79 . NMR CDCl3, ppm 1.62 3H, s , 2.47 1.5H, s , 2.50 1.5H, s , 1.9 3.3 4H, m , 4.3 5.2 1H, m , 6.6 8.15 14U, m . IR KBr cm Ú 3060, 2990, 2950, 1623, 1523, 1460, 1443, 1410, 1040, 745.Example 67 Synthesis of l l benzenesulfonyl 2 propyl 3 benzoyl 2 methylindole No. 601 592 mg 1.54 millimoles of the compound No.401 obtained in Example 50 was dissolved in 25 ml of methylene chloride, and 520 mg 3.00 millimoles of metachlorobenzoic acid was added. The mixture was stirred at room temperature for 16 hours. After the reaction, the reaction mixture was washed successively once with 30 ml of a saturated aqueous solution of sodium bicarbonate and three times with 30 ml of water. The methylene chloride layer was dried over magnesium sulfate, and the methylene chloride was distilled off under reduced pressure to afford an oily product. The oily product was chromatographed on a silica gel column using a mixture of 95 of benzene and 5 of ethyl acetate as an eluent to afford 382 mg yield 60 of the desired compound No. 601 . NMR CDCl3, ppm 1.70 3H, d, J 7Hz , 2.51 3H, s , 3.3 4.2 2N, m , 4.9 5.4 1K, m , 6.7 7.9 14H, in . IR KBr cm Ú 3060, 2990, 2940, 1623, 1525, 1460, 1445, 1413, 1302, 1146, 742.Example 68 Synthesis of 1 4 benzenesulfonyl 2 butyl 3 benzoyl 2 methylindole No. 607 The same reaction as in Example 67 was carried out using the compound No. 410 obtained in Example 61 to afford the desired compound No. 607 in a yield of 40 . NMRJ CDCl3, ppm 1.62 3H, d, J 7Hz , 2.48 3H, s , 2.2 3.1 4H, m , 4.3 5.0 1H, m , 6.8 7.9 14H, m . IR KBr cm 1 1622, 1523, 1468, 1442, 1410, 1302, 1143, 740.Example 69 Synthesis of 3 benzoyl 1 1 methanesulfonyl 2 butyl 2 methylindole No. 614 The same reaction as in Example 67 was carried out using the compound No. 402 obtained in Example 53 to afford the desired compound No. 614 in a yield of 26 . NMR CDCl3, ppm 1.75 3H, d, J 7Hz , 2.20 3H, s , 2.55 3H, s , 3.1 4.4 2H, m , 5.0 5.5 1H, m , 6.9 7.8 9H, m . IR Kbr cm1 3000, 2930, 1620, 1524, 1458, 1407 1295, 1133, 865, 742.Example 70 Synthesis of 3 benzoyl l 2 hexyl 2 methyl indole No. 705 1 39.4 g 0.30 mole of 2 methylindole, 19.9 g 0.30 mole of potassium hydroxide and 2.5 g 0.01 mole of 18 crown 6 were dissolved in 200 ml of benzene, and the solution was refluxed for 2 hours. Then, 80 ml of benzene having dissolved therein 48.0 g 0.29 mole of 2 hexylbromide was added, and the mixture was refluxed for 7.5 hours. Materials insoluble in benzene were removed by filtration. Ethyl acetate was added tithe filtrate, and the mixture was washed with water. The product was dried over magnesium sulfate, and concentrated to form an oily product. The oily product was purified by column chromatography to afford 5.90 g yield 9.5a 0 of 1 2 hexyl 2 methylindole. 2 The 1 2 hexyl 2 methylindole 5.90 g 27.4 millimoles , 13.0 g 57.6 millimoles of benzoic anhydride and 0.3 ml of a 52 aqueous solution of hydrogen iodide were reacted at 1450C for 1.5 hours in a stream of nitrogen. After the reaction, ethanol and an aqueous solution of sodium hydroxide were added. The mixture was stirred for 2 hours, extracted with ethyl acetate, washed with water, dried and concentrated to afford an oily product. The oily product was chromatographed on a silica gel column using hexane benzene 1 1 as an eluent to afford 6.56 g yield 75.0 of the desired product No. 705 . NMR CDCB3, ppm 0.83 3H, br, t , 1.0 1.4 4H, m , 1.60 3H, d, J 7Hz , 1.8 2.3 2H, m , 2.57 3H, s , 4.53 1H sextet, J 7Hz , 7.0 7.96 9H, m . IR CHCB3 cm l 3070, 2950, 2900, 1620, 1580, 1520, 1460, 1270, 1170, 1105, 1060, 1020, 910, 900. Example 71 Synthesis of 3 benzoyl 1 2 hepthyl 2 methylindole No. 706 The same reaction as in Example 70 was carried out using 2 bromoheptane to afford the desired compound No. 706 in a yield of 72.6 . NMR CDCl3, ppm 0.83 3H, br, t , 1.0 1.45 6H, m , 1.60 3H, d, J 7Hz , 1.6 2.1 2H, m , 2.57 3H, s , 4.50 1H, m , 7.0 7.95 9H, m . IR liquid film cm Ú 3070, 3020, 2950, 2900, 1620, 1580, 1520, 1460, 1410, 1380, 1320, 1270, 1170, 1020, 900.Example 72 Synthesis of 3 benzoyl 1 2 buty 2 methyl indole No. 701 2.25 g 11.08 millimoles of l 4 hydroxy 2 butyl 2 methylindole, 10 ml of pyridine and 0.86 ml of methane sulfonyl chloride were reacted at 0 C for 2 hours.After the reaction, the reaction mixture was extracted with ether, washed, dried, and chromatographed on a silica gel column using ethyl acetate benzene 1 9 as an eluent to obtain a mesylated compound. The mesylated compound was reduced with 0.5 g of lithium aluminum hydride, and chromatographed on a silica gel column using hexane benzene 3 1 as an eluent to afford 1.74 g of l 2 butyl 2 methylindole. The compound was acylated using 4.21 g 18.6 millimoles of benzoic anhydride and 0.15 ml of 521 0 hydriodic acid. After the reaction, the reaction mixture was chromatographed on a silica gel column using benzene ethyl acetate 25 1 as an eluent to afford the desired compound No. 701 . IR CHCl3 cm Ú 3000, 2950, 2900, 1620, 1570, 1520, 1460, 1410, 1380, 1360, 1270, 1100, 1020, 900. EMR CDCB3, ppm 0.76 3H, t, J 7Hz , 1.58 3H, d, J 7Hz , 1.66 2.4 2H, m , 2.50 3H, s , 4.4 1H, m , 6.73 7.8 9H, m . Example 73 Synthesis of 3 benzoyl 1 2 pentyl 2 methyl indole No. 703 1.09 g 4.63 millimoles of 3 benzoyl 2 methylindole was dissolved in 5 ml of hexamethylphosphoramide, and while cooling the solution, 278 mg 5.79 millimoles of sodium hydride 50 was added. Under ice cooling, the mixture was stirred for 30 minutes. Then, 1.13 ml 9.26 millimoles of 2 bromopentane was added, and the mixture was stirred at 90 C for 20 hours.After the reaction, 75 ml of water was added, and the mixture was extracted with ethyl acetate, washed with water, dried and concentrated under reduced pressure to afford an oily product. The oily product was chromatographed on a silica gel column using ethyl acetate benzene 1 50 as an eluent to afford 118 mg yield S 0 of the desired compound No. 703 . NMR CDCB3, ppm 1.60 3H, d, J 7Hz , 2.57 3H, s , 4.55 1H, br. sextet, J 7Hz , 6.8 7.6 7H, m , 7.6 7.9 2H, m . IR CHCl3 cm Ú 2960, 1622, 1515, 1458, 1408, 1227, 1168, 745.Example 74 Synthesis of 3 benzoyl l a phenethyl 2 methyl indole No. 709 The same reaction as in Example 73 was carried out using x phenethyl bromide to afford the compound No. 709 in a yield of 85 . IR KBr cm Ú 3080, 3000, 1610, 1600, 1540, 1460, 1400, 1350, 1230, 1160, 1060, 1020, 920, 880, 750. NMR CDCB3, ppm 2.00 3H, d, J 7Xz , 2.60 3H, s , 5.90 1H, 9, J 7Hz , 6.85 8.0 14H, m .Example 75 Synthesis of 3 benzoyl 1 1 formyl 2 propyl 2 methylindole No. 806 402 mg 1.3 millimoles of the compound No.100 obtained in Example 2 was dissolved in 10 ml of methylene chloride, and 328 mg 2.6 millimoles of pyridine dichromate was added. The reaction was performed at room temperature for 18 hours. Ether 50 ml was added to the reaction mixture, and insoluble materials were removed by filtration, The filtrate was concentrated under reduced pressure to afford an oily product. The qily product was chromatographed on a silica gel column using benzene ethyl acetate 9 1 as an eluent to afford 402 mg yield 100 of the desired compound No. 806 . NMR CDCl3, ppm 1.60 3H, d, J 7Hz , 2.60 311, s , 2.8 3.73 2H, ABX , 3.26 1H, sextet, J 7Hz , 7.0 8.0 9H, m , 9.76 1H, s . IR CHCl3 cm Ú 3000, 1730, 1620, 1410, 1170, 900.Example 76 Synthesis of 3 benzoyl 2 methyl 1 3 oxo 2 butyl indole No. 800 400 mg 1.7 millimoles of 3 benzoyl 2 methylindole was dissolved in 10 ml of hexamethylphosphoramide, and with stirring under ice cooling, 50 mg 0.6 equivalent of sodium hydride was added. After generation of hydtrogen ceased, 0.318 g 2.9 millimoles of 3 chloro2 butanone was added dropwise, and the mixture was stirred at room temperature for 1 hour. Ethyl acetate 50 ml was added, and the mixture was washed twice with 50 ml of water, and dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate. The solvent was distilled off under reduced pressure.The resulting oily product was chromatographed on a silica gel column using ethyl acetate benzene 1 20 as an eluent to afford 120 mg yield 25 of the desired compound No.800 . 16 1600 1510 1458 1400 IR CHC3 cm 1720, 1366, 1260, 1220, 1169, 1060, 1021, 893, 696. NMR CDCl3, 6 ppm 1.66 3H, d, J 7Hz , 1.93 3H, s , 2.60 3H, s . 5.00 1H, q, J 7Hz , 7.0 7.8 9H, m .Example 77 Synthesis of 3 b oyl 2 methyl l 4 oxo 2 pentyl indole No. 801 The same reaction as in Example 38 was performed using 3 penten 2 one to afford the desired compound No. 801 in a yield of 23 . NNR CDO 3, ppm 1.63 3H, d, J 7Hz , 2.07 3H, s , 2.64 3H, s , 3.2 34 2H, m , 5.1 5.5 1H, m , 7.0 8.0 9H, m . IR CHCl3 cm 3010, 1720, 1620, 1522, 1460, 1408, 1167, 1074, 900.ExamPle 78 in vitro platelet aggregation inhibiting activity The platelet aggregation inhibiting activities in vitro of test drugs including the acylated indole derivatives of this invention were assayed using guinea pigs PRP. The results are shown in terms of the concentration of a test drug which provided a 50 inhibition of platelet aggregation. As an aggregating agent, sodium arachidonate having a final concentration of 0.1 millimole was used. The results are shown in Table 1. Preparation of PRP, drug, and aggregating agent 1 Preparation of platelet enriched plasma Citrated blood consisting of 1 part by volume of 3.8 soidum citrate solution nd 9 parts by volume of blood was taken by cardiac puncture from male Hartley guinea pigs weighing 350 to 600 g. The citrated blood was centrifuged at 1000 rpm for 10 minutes at room temperature, and the supernatant liquid PRP was separated. The resulting PRP was stored at room temperature, and used as early as possible. PRP stored for more than 4 hours was not used. 2 Preparation of drugs Each test drug was dissolved in dimethlsulfoxide generally in a concentration of 10 mg ml. The solution was diluted with physiological saline to prepare 1 ml each of solutions having a concentration of 2500 g ml, 1000 pg ml, 750 pg ml, 5000 llg ml, 250 Ilg ml, and 100 Ilg ml, respectively. A compound having a free carboxylic acid as a residue, such as Indomethacin and Ibprofen, was dissolved in 0.1M NaHCO3 to provide a sodium salt solution having a concentration of 10 mg ml. The solution was similarly diluted with physiological saline to prepare a solution of a test drug. When as a result of the platelet aggregation inhibiting test, the drug completely inhibited platelet aggregation even when the concentration was 100 pg ml 10 llg ml calculated as the final concentration , the drug solution was further diluted with physiological saline 75 pg ml, 50 lLg ml, 25 pg ml and 10 pg ml , and the platelet aggregation inhibition test was performed further on these dilutions. 3 Preparation of and aggregating agent Sodium arachidonate Arachidonic acid 99 pure made by SigmaCompany was dissolved in Q.1M NaHC03 to prepare a 3.3mM solution of sodium arachidonate. The solution was diluted with physiological saline to form a lmM solution which was used in the test. The solution having a concentration of 3.3mM was stored as a base solution in a refrigerator, and the lmM solution was newly prepared from this base solution every time it was used for the test. Collage floating solution The collagent floating solution made by HormoneCompany of west Germany was diluted with physiological saline to a concentration of 100 kg ml for use in the test. Testing method for inhibition of platelet aggregation 1 Degree of platelet aggregation in a blank 50 e of physiological saline and 50 1L of the aggregating agent solution were added to 400 We of PRP which had been warmed in a cuvette at 37 0C in an aggregometer to aggregate the platelet. The aggregation curve was recorded for 3 minutes by an aggregometer a product of Bryston Company . The maximum degree of aggregation in this platelet aggregation was defined as the maximum degree of aggregation in the blank. 2 Adjustment of the intensity of aggregation by sodium arachidonate by measurement of the rate of platelet aggregation inhibi tion of at control compound 50 e of an Ibprofen solution 250 ELg ml or 100 llg ml was added to 400 ,uO of PRP, and the mixture was pre incuvated in a cuvette of the aggregometer with stirring for 2 minutes in the same way as in l above.Then, 50 e of a lmM solution of sodium arachidonate was added, and the platelet aggregation curve was recorded in the same way as in 1 above. From the curve, the maximum degree of aggregation was calculated, and the inhibiting rate was calculated in accordance with the following equation. Maximum degree of aggregation Inhibiting 100 in the Ibprofen added system x 100 rate Maximum degree of ggregation in the blank At this time, it is necessary to confirm that the inhibiting rate of a system having added thereto 250 Ug ml of Ibprofen is at least 50 , and the inhibiting rate of a system having added thereto 100 Ag ml ofIbprofen is not more than 50 o. If these inhibiting rates are not attained, the concentration of the solution of sodium arachidonate is not suitable, and therefore, its concentration should be re adjusted, and the test shall be performed again. 3 Test for inhibition of platelet aggregation 50 p of the test compound solution was added to 400 AB of PRP, and the mixture was pre incubated in the same way as in 2 above. Then, 50 pJ of the solution of sodium arachidonate having its concentration adjusted in 2 was added, and the aggregation curve was recorded for 3 minutes. The maximum degree of aggregation of platelet within this period was measured, and the rate of inhibition was calculated from the following equation.The minimum concentration expressed as final concentra tion of the drug whose inhibiting rate exceeded 50 was shown as an IC50 value. Maximum degree of aggregation Inhibiting 100 in the drug added system x 100 rate Maximum degree of aggregation in the blank For details of the in vitro platelet aggregation inhibiting test, see H. M. Davis, J. Phyllis, K.Paul and W. Terry Thromb. Res. 11, 217 226 1977 andR. E. Anderson and J. G. Foulks Thromb. Haemos. 36, 343 359 1976 . Table 1EMI122.1 tb Experiment SEP No. SEP Acylated SEP indole SEP derivative SEP 1050 SEP g m tb SEP 1 SEP 101 SEP 0.1 tb SEP 2 SEP 105 SEP 0.075 tb SEP 3 SEP 116 SEP 0.5 tb SEP 4 SEP 117 SEP 0.25 tb SEP 5 SEP 1 SEP 135 SEP 0.025 tb SEP 6 SEP 136 SEP 0.05 tb SEP 7 SEP 200 SEP 0.075 tb SEP 8 SEP 201 SEP 0.075 tb SEP 9 SEP 205 SEP 0.1 tb SEP 10 SEP 3 SEP 0.055 tb SEP 11 SEP SEP 302 SEP 0.055 tb SEP 12 SEP 306 SEP 0.25 tb SEP 13 SEP 307 SEP 0.25 tb SEP 14 SEP 311 SEP 0.25 tb SEP 15 SEP 312 SEP 0.25 tb SEP 16 SEP 315 SEP SEP 0.01 0.1 tb SEP 17 SEP 318 SEP 0.75 tb SEP 18 SEP 346 SEP 0.05 tb SEP 19 SEP 347 SEP 0.075 tb SEP 20 SEP 400 SEP 0.5 tb SEP 21 SEP 401 SEP 0.25 tb SEP 22 SEP 402 SEP 0.075 tb SEP 23 SEP SEP 405 SEP SEP 0.5 tb SEP 24 SEP 409 SEP SEP 0.25 tb SEP 25 SEP 800 SEP 0.05 0.1 tb SEP OH tb SEP I SEP 50 tb SEP 1 SEP 0OmPariSOn SEP 6 SEP on3 SEP COOR SEP 50 tb to be continued Table 1 continued EMI123.1 tb SEP No. SEP SEP Acylated SEP indole SEP derivative SEP IC50 SEP g m tb I SEP H SEP 5 tb 3 tb Comparison SEP mY SEP 0.075 tb SEP oA tb Example 79 extra vivo platelet aggregation inhibiting activity The platelet aggregation inhibiting activities extra vivo of drugs sampled at random were examined using guinea pigs. The drugs were used dissolved in propylene glycol to a concentration of 1 mg ml when the dosage was 1 mg kg , 10 mg ml when the dosage was 10 mg kg , and 30 mg ml when the dosage was 30 mg kg , The drugs were administered orally to male Hartley guinea pigs three a a group having a body weight of 300 to 350 g. Pro pylene glycol was administered to a control group. One hour, or 4 hours after the administration, citrated blood was taken out from the subject by cardiac puncture. The guinea pigs were caused to fast overnight before use. The inhibiting rate of the test drugs was measured as follows 450 1j of PRP was put into a cuvette of an aggregometer, and then 50 WE of the aggregating agent was added. The aggregation curve was recorded for 3 minutes, and the maximum degree of aggregation was measured.As a blank, the maximum degree of aggregation of PRP of the group of guinea pigs to which propylene glycol had been administered was measured. The rate of inhibition was calculated from the following equation. Maximum degree of aggregation of PRP in the test drug Inbibition 100 administered group x 100 rate Maximum degree of aggregtation of the blank PRP As the aggregating agent, 0.03 mM final concentration sodium arachidonate and 5 g ml final concentration collagen floating solution were used. The results are shown in Table 2. For details of the extra vivo platelet aggregation inhibiting test, see Davis. H. M., Phyllis, J.,Paul, K and Terry, W. Thromb. Res. 11, 217 226 1977 and Anderson R. E. and Foulks J. G. Thromb. Haemos. 36, 343 359 1976 . Table 2 EMI125.1 SEP Rate SEP of SEP inhibition SEP of tb SEP platelet SEP aggregation tb Experiment SEP Acylated SEP indole SEP Dosage SEP tb SEP No. SEP derivative SEP mg kg SEP Sodium SEP arachidonate SEP Collagen tb SEP After SEP After SEP After SEP After tb SEP 1 SEP hour SEP 4 SEP hours SEP 1 SEP hour SEP 4 SEP hours tb SEP 1 SEP 101 SEP 10 SEP 99 SEP 99 SEP 100 SEP 100 tb SEP 2 SEP 105 SEP 10 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 tb SEP 3 SEP 116 SEP 10 SEP 100 SEP 0.7 SEP 100 SEP 0 tb SEP 4 SEP 117 SEP 10 SEP 100 SEP 8.6 SEP 72.1 SEP 2.2 tb SEP 5 SEP 200 SEP 1 SEP 90.0 SEP 91.8 SEP SEP SEP 6 SEP 201 SEP 10 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 tb SEP 7 SEP 205 SEP 10 SEP 100 SEP 85.3 SEP 100 SEP 93.8 tb SEP 8 SEP 300 SEP 1 SEP 51.3 SEP 67.5 SEP 100 SEP 71.4 tb SEP 9 SEP 302 SEP 10 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP SEP SEP 10 SEP 306 SEP 10 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 tb SEP 11 SEP 307 SEP 10 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 98.3 SEP 100 tb SEP 12 SEP 311 SEP 10 SEP 68.8 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 81.1 tb to be continued Table 2 continued EMI126.1 SEP Rate SEP of SEP inhibition SEP of tb SEP platelet SEP aggregation tb Experiment SEP Acylated SEP indole SEP Dosage SEP tb SEP No. SEP derivative SEP mg kg SEP Sodium SEP arachidonate SEP Collagen tb SEP After SEP After SEP After SEP After tb SEP 1 SEP hour SEP 4 SEP hours SEP 1 SEP hour SEP 4 SEP hours tb SEP 13 SEP 312 SEP 10 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 tb SEP 14 SEP 318 SEP 10 SEP 100 SEP 14.0 SEP 97.7 SEP 0.5 tb SEP 15 SEP 400 SEP 10 SEP 100 SEP 67.4 SEP 100 SEP 100 tb SEP 16 SEP 401 SEP 10 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 tb SEP 17 SEP 405 SEP 10 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 tb SEP 18 SEP 409 SEP 10 SEP 100 SEP 48.8 SEP 100 SEP 100 tb SEP 19 SEP 414 SEP 10 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP SEP SEP 20 SEP 417 SEP 10 SEP 100 SEP 37 SEP 100 SEP 100 tb SEP 21 SEP 423 SEP 10 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 tb SEP 22 SEP 501 SEP 10 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 tb SEP 23 SEP 701 SEP 10 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP SEP SEP 24 SEP 800 SEP 10 SEP 100 SEP 66.7 SEP 100 SEP 48.4 tb to be continued Table 2 continued EMI127.1 SEP Rate SEP of SEP inhibition SEP of tb SEP platelet SEP aggregation tb Experiment SEP Acylated SEP indole SEP Dosage SEP tb SEP No. SEP derivative SEP mg kg SEP Sodium SEP arachidonate SEP Collagen tb SEP After SEP After SEP After SEP After tb SEP 1 SEP hour SEP 4 SEP hours SEP 1 SEP hour SEP 4 SEP hours tb SEP 4 SEP SEP 10 SEP 45.5 SEP 7.1 SEP 38.0 SEP 7.6 tb SEP 5 SEP SEP 10 SEP 56.3 SEP 37.3 SEP 66.7 SEP 66.7 tb SEP 6 SEP SEP 10 SEP 12.3 SEP 6.0 SEP 36.0 SEP 28.9 tb SEP 7 SEP SEP 10 SEP 62.3 SEP 9.5 SEP SEP Example 80 Action of causing trouble to the mucous membrane of the stomach Male S.D. rats 7 week old were caused to fact for 24 hours while allowing them to drink water freely. A test compound dissolved in propylene glycol was orally administered to these rats, and these rats were kept while causing them to fast.Then, the rats were knocked out to death, and lesions generated in the stomach were measured in the following manner. Ten minutes before killing the rats, 1 ,b Evans blue was intravenously injected to the rats in a dose of 0.5 ml rat to stain their body. Then, the rats were knocked out to death, and the stomack was taken out from each rat. 12 ml of 1 formal in was injected into the stomack to inflate it. The stomach was then dipped for more than 10 minutes in a 1 formalin solution, and fixed. After fixing, the stomach was incised along the glandular portion, and the length of a dye leaked portion that occurred in te stomach was measured under a solid microscope, and defined as the ulcer index mm , The results are shown in Table 3. For details of the test on the action of causing trouble to the mucous membrane of the stomach, see E. Adami, E. Marazzi Uberti, and C. Turba, Arch, int. Pharmacadyn., 147, 113 1964 . Table 3 EMI129.1 SEP Acylated SEP Number tb Experiment SEP indole SEP Dosage SEP of SEP the SEP U cer SEP Index SEP Incidence tb SEP No. SEP derivative SEP mg kg SEP rats SEP mm SEP SEP S.E. SEP tb SEP 100 SEP 10 SEP 1.1 SEP SEP 0.5 SEP 40 tb SEP 1 SEP 300 SEP 200 SEP 9 SEP 1.2 SEP SEP 0.3 SEP 55.6 tb SEP 400 SEP 9 SEP 1.4 SEP SEP 0.5 SEP 66.7 tb SEP 200 SEP 6 SEP 0.3 SEP SEP 0.2 SEP 33.3 tb SEP 2 SEP 302 SEP 400 SEP 10 SEP 0.9 SEP SEP 0.3 SEP 50 tb SEP 3 SEP 705 SEP 400 SEP 6 SEP 0 SEP 0 tb SEP 4 SEP 706 SEP 400 SEP 6 SEP 0.1 SEP 16.7 tb Comparison SEP SEP 100 SEP 6 SEP 1.5 SEP SEP 0.6 SEP 66.7 tb SEP 3 SEP 400 SEP 6 SEP 7.9 SEP SEP 2.3 SEP 100 tb SEP 5 SEP Controla SEP SEP 7 SEP 0 SEP 0 tb a Propyleneglycol 2m kg Example 81 Inclusion compound of the acylated indole derivative of this invention with cyclodextrin Ten grams of the compound No. 300 of this invention and 55.41 g 1.5 moles per mole of the compound No. 300 were mixed well in a mortar. Then 25 ml of water was added, and the mixture was stirred for 30 minutes. The mixture was then air dried, finely pulverized and sieved to form an inclusion compound of the compound No. 300 . In the same way as above, inclusion compounds of the compounds Nos. 105 , 302 , 307 , and 312 with cyclodextrin. Example 82 Forty parts by weight of microcrystalline cellulose, 5 parts by weight of carboxymethyl cellulose calcium and 0.5 part by weight of magnesium stearate were added to 40 parts by weight of the inclusicncompound of the compound No. 300 obtained in Example 81, and they were well mixed. The mixture was formed into tablets in a customary manner. Example 83 Four parts by weight of 3 starch paste was added to 4 parts by weight of the inclusion compound of the compound No. 300 obtained in Example 81. The mixture was extruded by a granulator to form granules.Example 84 Preparation of tablets Tablets were prepared each of which had the following composition. Active ingredient 100 mg Lactose 280 mg Potato starch 80 mg Polyvinyl pyrrolidone 11 mg Magnesium stearate 5 mg 476 mg The active ingredient, lactose and potato starch were mixed, and the mixture was egually wetted with a 209 0 ethanol solution of polyvinyl pyrrolidone. It was passed through a sieve having a mesh opening of 2.0 mn and dried at 4500. The dried product was again passed through a sieve having a mesh opening of 1.5 mm. The resulting granules were mixed with magnesium stearate, and compressed into tablets. Compounds No. 300 and No. 302 were used as typical examples of the active ingredient.Example 85 Preparation of ampoules Ampoules each of which had a capacity of 5 ml and the following composition were prepared. Active ingredient 100 mg Polyethylene glycol 600 200 ing Distilled water to make 5.0 ml Polyethylene glycol and the active ingredient were dissolved in water under nitrogen atmosphere, and boiled. They were cooled under nitrogen, and distilled.Pre treated water was added to the solution to adjust the total volume to 5.0 ml, and the solution was filtered in an aseptic condition. Production of the solution in this Example was carried out under scattering light Filling of the solution into ampoules was carried out in a stream of nitrogen, and sterilization was carried out at 12100 for 20 minutes. Compounds No. 400 and No. 402 were used as the active ingredients.Example 86 Preparation of capsules Hard gelation capsules were prepared each of which had the following composition. Active ingredient 100 mg Microcrystalline cellulose 195 mg Amorphous silice 5 mg 300 mg The finely divided active ingredient, the microcrystalline cellulose and the unpressed amorphous silica were fully mixed, and packed into hard gelatin capsules. Compounds No. 300 and No. 302 were used typically as the active ingredient. No experimental trouble occurred during the production.