# Method of reducing the level of catalyst residues in polymers.

## Abstract
Polymer containing catalyst residues from catalysts having at least one atom of halide are contacted with a treating agent comprising in combination a monoalkyl ether of a glycol and an alkylene oxide to reduce the level of catalyst residues in the polymer.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A method of reducing a level of catalyst residues in a polymer prepared by cata3ytic polymerization of at least one monomer in the presence of a catalyst system effective for said catalytic polymerization, said catalyst system having at least one component having at least one halogen atom which comprises contacting said polymer with a treating agent, said treating agent comprising in combination an alkyl monoether of a glycol, said alkyl monoether comprising an alkyl group having at least 3 carbon atoms and an alkylene oxide including in its molecular structure at least one oxirane group having the structureEMI20.1 wherein said alkyl monoether is present in an amount effective to prevent polymerization of said a lkylene oxide said alkylene oxide is present in an amount effective to scavenge said at least one halogen atom and said alkyl monether and said alkylene oxide are present in combination in an amount effective to reduce said level af catalyst residues in said polymer. 2. A method as in claim 1 wherein said glycol is selected from the group of glycols having the general formula HOl CH2 rCHRlO sH wherein R1 is a hydrogen or a methyl group r is an integer having a value of 1 or 2 and s is an integer having a value of 1, 2, or 3. 3. A method as in claim 1 wherein said glycol is selected from the group consisting of ethylene glycol, diethylene glycol, triethylene glycol, propylene glycol, and dipropylene glycol said alkyl monoether contains from 4 to 8 carbon atoms and can be of a linear or a branched nature and said alkylene oxide compound comprises compounds having from 2 to 8 carbon atoms and including in their structure at least one said oxirane group, and represented by the general formula EMI21.1 in which each R2 and R3 can be a hydrogen atom, an alkyl, cycloalkyl, or aryl group, or an epoxy containing cyclic or alicyclic hydrocarbon group and in which the Rê and or Rê and or R groups can be joined to form a carbocyclic group. 4. A method as in claim 1 wherein said alkyl monoether of a glycol comprises monobutyl , mono 2ethyl hexyl , and monooctyl ethers of ethylene glycol and propylene glycol, the monobutyl , mono 2 ethylbutyl , mono 2 ethylhexyl , and monooctyl ethers of dihydroxydiethyl ether diethylene glycol and dipropylene 1,2 glycol, and the monobutyl ethers of triethylene glycol. 5. A method as in claim 1 wherein said alkyl monoether is a monoalkyl ether of dihydroxydiethyl ether diethylene glycol . 6. A method as in claim 1 wherein said alkyl monoether is the monobutyl ether of dihydroxydiethyl ether diethylene glycol . 7. A method as in claim 1 wherein said alkylene oxide is selected from the group consisting of epoxyethane, 1,2 epoxypropane, 1,2 epoxybutane, 2,3 epoxybutane, 1,2,3,4 diepoxybutane, 1,2,4,5 diepoxypentane, 1,2,4,5,7,8triepoxyoctane, 2,3 epoxy 2, 3 dimethylbutane, 2,3 epoxy 2 methyl 3ethylpentane, epoxyethylbenzene, epoxyethylcyclohexane, epoxyethyl 3,4 epoxycyclohexane, 1,2 epoxycyclohexane, 2,3 epoxyethylcyclohexane, and 1,2 epoxycyclopentane. 8. A method as in claim 6 wherein said alkylene oxide is 1,2 propylene oxide 1,2 epoxypropane . 9. A method as in one of claims 1 to 8 wherein said alkyl monoether is present in an amount in the range of about 0.1 to about 15 gram moles per gram atom of total metal in said catalyst system said alkylene oxide is present in an amount in the range of about 0.5 to about 20 gram moles per gram atom of halogen in said catalyst system and said alkyl monoether of a glycol has a ratio relative to said alkylene oxide in the range of about 0.1 1 to about 10 1 wherein said ratio is calculated as the ratio of moles of said alkyl monoether employed per gram atom of total metal in said catalyst system charged to moles of said alkylene oxide employed per gram atom of halide in said catalyst system charged. 10. A method as in claim 9 wherein said alkyl monoether is present in an amount in the range of about 1.5 to about 6 gram moles per gram atom of total metal in said catalyst system. 11. A method as in claim 9 wherein said alkyl monoether of a glycol has a mole ratio relative to said alkylene oxide in the range of about 0.1 1 to about 4 1. 12. A method as in claim 9 wherein said alkyl monoether of a glycol has a mole ratio relative to said alkylene oxide in the range of about 0 2 1 to about 3 1. 13. A method as in one of claims 1 to 12 or 28 further comprising conducting said catalytic polymerization in a particle form process to form and recover said polymer as a finely divided solid dispersing said finely divided solid in a hydrocarbon diluent selected from the group consisting of said at least one monomer under conditions such that said hydrocarbon diluent is in liquid phase and contacting the thus dispersed polymer with said treating agent to extract said impurities in a temperature range and for a period of time effective to reduce said impurities to an acceptable level without causing the polymer to be degraded, thereby forming a polymer treating agent slurry and separating said polymer in solid state from said slurry, thereby forming solid polymer comprising finely divided polymer particles. 14. A method as in claim 13 further comprising the steps of washing said finely divided polymer particles by contacting same in countercurrent flow with a washing hydrocarbon in which a complex formed from said treating agent and catalyst residues are sufficiently soluble for effective washing and recovering a solid polymer substantially free of catalyst residues. 15. A method as in claim 14 wherein said washing hydrocarbon comprises a hydrocarbon having 3 to 7 carbon atoms under conditions such that said hydrocarbon remains in liquid phase. 16. A method as in claim 15 wherein said washing hydrocarbon is selected from the group consisting of pentane, heptane, and mixtures thereof. 17. A method as in claim 13wherein said at least one monomer comprises l olefins having from 2 to 20 carbon atoms said catalyst system comprises two or more components wherein a first component is a compound of a metal selected from Groups IV, V, VI and VIII of the Periodic Table according to Hendeleev, and a second component is selected from organometal compounds, metal hydrides, and metals of Groups I, II, and III of the Periodic Table. 18. A method as in claim17 wherein said first component comprising said compound of a metal ofGroups IV, V, VI, and VIII of the Periodic Table comprises the oxides, hydrides, halides, oxyhalides, and salts of organic acids having less than 20 atoms, of titanium, zirconium, chromium, thorium, molybdenum, and vanadium. 19. The method as in claim 17 wherein said first component is a compound of a metal of Group IV of the Periodic System having the formula n OR m wherein M is said metal of Group IV X is a halogen R is an organic radical having 20 or less carbon atoms and the sum m n equals the valence of the metal. 20. The method as in claim 19 wherein said compound is selected from the group consisting of titanium tetrabutoxide tetra n butyl titanate , tetra sec butyl titanate, tetraisopropyl titanate, tetra 2 ethylbutyl titanate, tetra 2ethylhexyl titanate, tetrastearyl titanate, tetraethyl titanate, tetra chloroethylititanate, tetra m tolyl titanate, tetraallyl titanate, tetracyclohexenyl titanate, tetracyclopentyl titanate, tetraethyl zirconate, tetramethyl zirconate, tetraisopropyl zirconate, tetraamyl zirconate, dichloro diethyl titanate . C12Ti OC2H5 2 , monochloro triethyl titanate ClTi OC2H5 3 dichioro diethyl zirconate C12Zr OC2H5 2 Hf OCH3 4, Th OC3H7 4, Th OC6H5 4, C13Ti OC6H4CH3 , Zr 0C4H7 4, Cl2Hf OC10H21 2, Th OC6H13 4, and Zr OC12H25 4 21. A method as in claim 13 wherein said first component is a titanium compound having the formula wherein TiXp OR 4 p R is a hydrocarbon group containing from 1 to about 20 carbon atoms such as alkyl, cycloalkyl, aryl, and combinations thereof X is a halogen selected from the group consisting of chlorine or bromine and p is an integer in the range of O to 4 inclusive provided that if p equals zero at least one other component of said catalyst system has at least one halogen atom. 22. The method as in claim 21wherein said first component is a titanium trichloride complex expressed as 3TiC13.AlC13. 23. The method as in claim 17 wherein said second component is selected from the group consisting of trimethyla luminum, triethylaluminum, triisobutylaluminum, tri nbutylaluminum, tri n pentylaluminum, triisooctylaluminum, tri ndodecylaluminum, triphenylaluminum, triethylgallium, triphenylgallium, tricyclohexylgallium, tri n butylindium, triethylthallium, diethylaluminum hydride, methylaluminum dichloride, dimethylaluminum chloride, ethylaluminum dichloride, dimethylaluminum chloride, di n butylaluminum bromide, isooctylaluminum diiodide, di n propylgallium fluoride, eicosylgallium dibromide, ditetradecylgallium fluoride, dicyclohexylgallium chloride, diphenylgallium bromide, diphenylindium chloride, dioctylindium fluoride, cyclohexylindium dibromide, 3 inethylcyclohexylaluminum dichloride, 2 cyclohexylethylgallium dichloride, p tolylberyllium iodide, di 3 phenyl l methylpropyl indium fluoride, and 2 3 isopropylcyclohexyl ethylthallium dibromide. 24. The method as in claim 17 wherein said second component is a metal hydride selected from the group consisting of aluminum hydride, lithium aluminum hydride, barium hydride, gallium hydride, indium hydride, sodium aluminum hydride, and potassium beryllium hydride. 25. The method as in claim 17 wherein said second component is an organoaluminum compound which can be expressed as AlRbY3b wherein R is a hydrocarbon group having 1 to about 20 carbon atoms such as alkyl, cycloalkyl, aryl, and combinations thereof, Y is a monovalent radical selected from the group consisting of the halogens and hydrogen, and b is an integer from 0 to 3 inclusive. 26. A method as in claim 17 wherein said catalyst system comprises third component selected from the group consisting of ethyl bromide, ethyl trichloro titanium, l bromobenzene, cyclohexyl chloride, alkali metal halides, ammonium halides, aluminum halides in which the catalyst system also includes another metal compound such as a titanium compound, halogens, hydrogen halides, complex hydrides, a mixture of an organic halide and a metal, and Grignard reagent. 27. A method as in claim 17 wherein said catalyst system is selected from the group consisting of a Aluminum trialkyls such as triethylaluminum or triisobutylaluminum and the tetravalent metal halides of the type represented by titanium tetrachloride b An organic halide such as ethyl bromide, a Group IV inorganic halide such as titanium tetrachloride, and a low valence metal selected from the group consisting of alkali metals, beryllium, magnesium, zinc, cadmium, mercury, aluminum, gallium, indium and thallium c A Group IV halide such as titanium tetrachloride, and a low valence metal such as sodium or magnesium d A mixture of titanium hydride and an aluminum alkyl halide such as a mixture of titanium hydride and ethylaluminum sesquichloride e An organoaluminum halide such as diethylaluminum chloride and a trivalent metal halide such as titanium trichloride f A mixture of molybdenum pentachloride and organometal compounds and halides such as triethylaluminum or ethylaluminum dichloride g A mixture of complex metal halides such as potassium fluotitanate, and an organometal compound and halides such as triethylaluminum or diethylaluminum chloride h A mixture of a derivative selected from the oxides of molybdenum, alkali metal, and ammonium molybdates, and an organometal halide such as isobutylaluminum dichloride i A mixture of a derivative of iridium, platinum and osmium selected from the group consisting of halides, oxides and complex compounds of iridium, platinum and osmium, said complex compounds corresponding to the formula M xM Xy wherein M is an alkyli metal or an ammonium radical, M is iridium, platinum or osmium, X is a halogen, and y is at least 1 and the sum of x and y is equal to the valence of M and a metallic organic compound exemplified by triethylaluminum j A mixture of a derivative of a metal selected from the group consisting of halides, oxyhalides, hydroxyhalides, oxyhydroxyhalides of a metal selected from the group consisting of molybdenum, tungsten, uranium, selenium, tellurium, and complex salts of said halides and said oxyhalides with a member selected from the group consisting of halides of sodium, potassium, lithium, rubidium, cesium and ammonia and an organometal compound exemplified by triethylaluminum k A chromyl halide and at least one material selected from the following group 1 a metal hydride or an organometal compound, 2 an organometal halide and 3 a mixture of an organic halide and a metal 1 1 A titanium derivative, 2 a complex hydride, and 3 a halide of aluminum m At least one halide of titanium, zirconium or hafnium and at least one hydride of lithium, sodium, potassium, rubidium, cesium, magnesium, calcium, strontium, barium, lanthanum or thorium n 1 A hydrocarbon derivative of one of the metals, zinc, cadmium, mercury, and magnesium and 2 a member selected from the group consisting of halides of titanium, zirconium, vanadium and molybdenum, oxyhalides of titanium, zirconium, vanadium, molybdenum and chromium, and complex salts of said halides and oxyhalides with a number selected from the group consisting of halides of the alkali metals and ammonia o 1 A tri or tetrahalide of titanium, zirconium, hafnium and germanium, 2 an organophosphorus containing compound and 3 at least one material selected from the following group a an organo metal halide, b a mixture of an organic halide and a metal, and c a complex hydride p 1 A tri or tetrahalide of titanium, zirconium, hafnium and germanium, 2 a peroxide of the formula R ÕOR where R is hydrogen, alkyl, aralkyl, alkaryl, cycloalkyl, acyl, alkyne, or aryl, and 3 at least one material selected from the following group a an organometal halide, b a mixture of an organic halide and a metal and c a complex hydride q 1 A tri or tetrahalide of titanium, zirconium, hafnium and germanium, 2 a metal alkoxide and 3 at least one material selected from the following group a an organometal halide, b a mixture of an organic halide and a metal, and c a complex hydride r 1 A halide of titanium, zirconium, hafnium or germanium, 2 a hydride selected from the group consisting of hydrides of aluminum, gallium, indium and thallium and complexes of said hydrides with alkali metal hydrides, and 3 an organic halide s 1 A halide of titanium, zirconium, hafnium, or germanium, 2 carbides and acetylenic compounds and 3 at least one material selected from the following group a an organometal halide, b a mixture of an organic halide and a free metal, and c a complex hydride. 28. A method as in claim 13 wherein said at least one monomer is propylene said catalyst system comprises a complex of titanium trichloride which can be expressed by the approximate formula 3TiC13.AlC13 and diethylaluminum chloride and said alkyl monoether of a glycol is a monobutyl ether of dihydroxydiethyl ether and said alkylene oxide is 1,2 propylene oxide epoxy propane .

## Description
Method of reducing the level of catalyst residues in polymers This invention relates to tne removal of catalyst residues from polymers. Various polymerization reactions are described in the literature and the polymerizations are usually carried out in the presence of catalysts. One of the problems encountered with polymers prepared by such processes concerns the presence in the polymer of unacceptable levels of catalyst residues or ash forming ingredients.The ash content of a product refers to catalyst constituents which are present in the polymer in unidentified form and which produce ash when the polymer is burned. The presence of these catalyst residues in the polymer adversely affects the color and heat stability of the polymer, as well as its electrical properties. The ash or catalyst residue in polymers is typically occluded in the polymer particles. To reduce the level of this residue to acceptable levels, a solubilizing or complexing agent must be transported through the polymer to the catalyst. The catalyst is then solubilized and transported out of the polymer particle whence it can be separated from the polymer by filtration or washing. This catalyst removal is preferably carried out without the generation of undesirable side products such as hydrogen halides but if such halides are produced a suitable scavenging system for such halides can also be advantageously employed. The ease with which the purification steps occur is a function of the size, shape, and polarity of the solubilizing agent and of the solubilized catalyst. It is also a function of the catalyst activity. Various treating methods have been proposed and tried by the prior art for the reduction of the level of such catalyst residues. For example, purification can be by treatment with anhydrous alcohols, alcoholic or aqueous solutions of acids, or complex forming organic compounds with a pretreatment in the presence of an alkylene oxide as disclosed in U.S. Patent 2,974,132. Alternatively, the polyolefin dispersion can be treated with an ether as disclosed in U.S. 3,045,002 and U.S. 3,083,192. Very satisfactory results have been obtained by the use, of the combination of a dicarbonyl compound and an alkylene oxide as disclosed in U.S. 3,219,647. In part, the combination of U.S. 3,219,647 is particularly advantageous because the alkylene oxide serves to scavenge the hydrogen halide evolved during the reaction of the treating agent with metal halides when such are present in the catalyst. This halide is most usually hydrogen chloride since the metal chlorides are usually employed as catalysts. HC1 can lead to significant operating problems, especially in commercial equipment, in the nature of potential corrosion of conduits and vessels. Moreover with certain types of chelating agents such as the dicarbonyl compounds only moderate rates of extraction are obtained when they are used to sequester the catalyst residues in the absence of the alkylene oxide. Also, it is believed that at least in some instances the hydrogen halide may tend to inhibit the chelating reaction. It has been found that alkylene oxides can function as deashing or treating agents. It has now been found however, that when only an alkylene oxide such as propylene oxide is used for deashing, long term commercial operations at the high reactor and contactor temperatures under olefin polymerizing conditions can result in plugging problems in the polyolefin recovery system. Analytical tests of the rubbery material causing the plugging problems revealed that poly alkylene oxide was a major constituent in this material. The formation of this polymer can eventually result in recovery of polyolefins having increased levels of poly alkylene oxides in the polymer product which can alter the polymer properties or processing.However, it has been found that in the presence of a dicarbonyl compound such as the conventional acetylacetone, formation of poly alkylene oxide was inhibited suggesting that the dicarbonyl compound inhibited its formation. Accordingly another advantageous aspect of the combination of the dicarbonyl compound and the alkylene oxide may rest, at least in part, upon the synergistic or cooperating combination of an alkylene oxide which scavenges hydrogen halide produced with another complexing compound which inhibits the formation of poly alkylene oxide. It has now further been found that compounds of the types hereinafter set forth and described according to the instant invention effectively inhibit the formation tof poly alkylene oxide while constituting in combination with an alkylene oxide an effective deashing treatment for polyolefins. It is an object of the present invention to provide a new process for producing polymers containing a low level of catalyst residue. Another object is to provide a process for treating polymers to reduce the level of catalyst residues associated therewith. A further object is to provide a process for producing polymer wherein the polymerization effluent containing liquid monomer s and solid polymer is treated so as to reduce the level of catalyst residues. A still further object is to provide such a process in which polymerization of alkylene oxide is inhibited. A still further object is such a process wherein such reduction of the level of said catalyst residues is not accompanied by evolution of undesirable hydrogen halides.Yet another object is to prevent the accumulation of solid polymer particles inEMI3.1 conduits and vessels of a i recovery system. It is yet another object of the present invention to provide a method of reducing the level of catalyst residues in polymers produced in the presence of a catalyst system wherein a halogen is a part of the catalyst complex. Other objects and advantages of the present invention will be apparent to those skilled in the art from the following discussion and the claims appended. In accordance with the instant invention, a method is provided for reducing a level of catalyst residues in a polymer prepared by catalytic polymerization in the presence of a catalyst system effective for said catalytic polymerization, said catalyst system having at least one component having at least one halogen atom which comprises contacting said polymer with a treating agent comprising in combination an alkyl monoether of a glycol, said alkyl monoether having an alkyl group having at least three carbon atoms, and an alkylene oxide as hereinafter described. In one broad aspect, the invention is thus applicable to reduction of the level of catalyst residues from polymers prepared in the presence of a catalyst system having at least one halogen atom. In most instances, the halogen atom will be connected to at least one metal atom. Mat constitutes an acceptable level of catalyst residues will vary depending on the catalyst system used, the polymerization systemEMI3.2 employed, and the uses to which the product will be placed. In theEMI4.1 polymerization of polypropylene, for example, using trichloride and DEAC, it is currently desirable to obtain purified polypropylene having no more than about 25 parts per million ppm titanium, about 75 ppm aluminum and no more than about 100 ppm each of ash and chlorides.Titanium is believed to contribute color and chlorides can cause problems in corrosion and stabilization. To achieve these currently desirable levels without a deashing step would require a high activity catalyst.However, this invention is also considered applicable to such high activity catalyst systems if deashing becomes necessary to achieve levels of catalyst residues lower than what is currently considered acceptable, i.e., the invention is not to be considered as limited by what are currently considered acceptable levels of catalyst residues. Accordingly, in a further broad aspect the instant invention relates to polymers produced using a catalyst system wherein such a deashing step is necessary to achieve desirable levels of ash and other components. As required, detailed embodiments of the invention are disclosed herein. However, it is to be understood that the disclosed embodiments are merely exemplary of the invention which may be employed in various forms. Therefore, specific structural and functional details disclosed herein are not to be interpreted as limiting but merely as a representative basis for teaching one skilled in the art to variously employ the present invention in any appropriate detailed structure. The system used for removal of catalyst residues by the method of the present invention includes using as a treating or deashing compound an alkyl monoether of a glycol. The alkyl monoether of a glycol can comprise alkyl monoethers of glycols, said glycols conforming, for example, to the general formula RO CH2 rCItR1 0 H where R1 is a hydrogen or a methyl group, r is an integer having a value of 1 or 2, and s is an integer having a value of 1, 2, or 3 in addition to glycols such as propylene glycol, dipropylene glycol and the like.Examples of such compounds include ethylene glycol 1,2 ethanediol , diethylene glycol dihydroxydiethyl ether , triethylene glycol, propylene glycol 1,2 propanediol , and dipropylene glycol 2,2 dihydroxydipropyl ether .EMI4.2 The alkyl group of the alkyl monoether of a glycol can contain at least 3 carbon atoms and can be of a linear or branched nature.Generally said alkyl group contains from 3 to 8 carbon atoms. In a preferred embodiment, said alkylgroup contains from 4 to 8 carbon atoms.Examples of specific compounds include the monobutyl , mono 2 ethylhexyl and monooctyl ethers of ethylene glycol and propylene glycol, the monobutyl , mono 2 ethylbutyl , mono 2 ethylhexyl , and monooctyl ethers of dihydroxydiethyl ether diethylene glycol and dipropylene 1,2 glycol, and the monobutyl ethers of triethylene glycol.The monoalkyl ethers of dihydroxydiethyl ether diethylene glycol are a presently preferred group of compounds with the monobutyl ether of dihydroxydiethyl ether diethylene glycol particularly preferred because of its efficacy, stability, and low order of toxicity. According to the present invention an alkylene oxide is used as a treating or deashing compound in combination with the monoether of a glycol for removing catalyst residues. The alkylene oxides used in the present invention are compounds containing at least 2 carbon atoms and preferably containing from 2 to 8 carbon atoms and which include in their molecular structure at least one oxirane group having the structureEMI5.1 These compounds can be represented by the general formula EMI5.2 in which each R2 group can be a hydrogen atom, an alkyl, cycloalkyl, or aryl group, or combination, e. g., alkylaryl or arylalkyl, or an epoxycontaining cyclic or alicyclic hydrocarbon group and in which the Rê groups can be joined to form a carbocyclic group. Typical compounds of this type include epoxyethane, 1,2epoxypropane, 1,2 epoxybutane, 2,3 epoxybutane, 1,2,3,4 diepoxybutane, 1,2,4,5 diepoxypentane, l,2,4,5,7,8 triepoxyoctane, 2,3 epoxy 2,3dimethylbutane, 2, 3 epoxy 2 methyl 3 ethylpentane, epoxyethylbenzene, epoxyethylcyclohexane, epoxyethyl 3,4 epoxycyclohexane, 1,2epoxycyclohexane, 2 ,3 epoxyethylcyclohexane, 1,2 epoxycyclopentane, and the like. A particularly preferred compound is 1,2 propylene oxide epoxypropane hereinafter sometimes referred to as propylene oxide. The present invention is particularly advantageous for removal of catalyst residues as hereinafter disclosed when an alkyl monoether of a glycol as described above is used in connection with an alkylene oxide as described above as a treating or deashing agent to reduce the level of catalyst residues in a polymer product of a catalyst system which catalyst system is also effective for polymerization of the alkylene oxide. Accordingly, in a preferred embodiment of the present invention, the alkyl monoether is used in combination with the alkylene oxide as a combination purification system to reduce the level of catalyst residues in a polymer product. The amount of alkyl monoether of a glycol used in the purification system broadly is an amount effective for removing catalyst residues and or for inhibiting the formation of poly alkylene oxide. The amount is at least 0.1 gram mole per gram atom of total metal in the catalyst system charged and can generally range from about 0.1 to about 15 gram moles per gram atoms of total metal in the catalyst system charged. Excellent results have been obtained when the alkyl monoether of a glycol is present in a range from about 1.5 to about 6 gram moles per gram atoms of total metal and more preferably in the range from about 1.5 to about 4 gram moles per gram atoms of total metal. The amount of alkylene oxide is an amount effective for scavenging halides produced during deashing treatment and or for removing catalyst residues.The amount is at least 0.5 gram mole per gram atom of total chloride in the catalyst system charged and can range generally from about 0.5 to about 20 gram moles per gram atom of halogen in the catalyst system charged. Excellent results have been obtained when the alkylene oxide is in the range of about 1 to 3 moles per gram atom of chloride and more preferably about 1.5 to about 2.5 moles per gram atom of chloride and these ranges are preferred for economy. When an alkyl monoether of a glycol and an alkylene oxide are used in combination the ratio of alkyl monoether of a glycol to alkylene oxide calculated as the ratio of moles of the alkyl monoether employed per gram atom of total metal in the catalyst system charged to moles of alkylene oxide employed per gram atom of halide in the catalyst systemcharged can range generally from about 0.1 1 to about 10 1.More preferably, the ratio of the alkyl monoether to the alkylene oxide is in the range of about 0.1 1 to about 4 1 and most preferably in the range of about 0.2 1 to about 3 1 or 1 1 to about 3 1 for excellent reduction of residual levels of ash and titanium. The alkyl monoether and or the alkylene oxide can be introduced directly by themselves into the contactor or contact zone, or they can be added separately, or in combination in solution in an inert hydrocarbon. The alkylene oxide is not a necessary component of a purification system if the sole and only object is to remove catalyst residues. However, in the combination of the present invention, the alkylene oxides are included to scavenge hydrogen halide formed in the reaction between metal halides and the alkyl monoether to minimize corrosion and other problems. Similarly, the alkyl monoether of the instant invention is not a necessary component of a purification system if the sole and only object is to remove catalyst residues.However, in the combination of the present invention, the monoalkyl ethers as herein described are included to inhibit the undesirable formation of polyEMI7.1 alkylene oxides which can cause plugging problems in ther eef recovery system or cause an increase in the level of the poly alkylene oxides in the polymer product which can alter the polymer properties or processing. The polymers which are treated in accordance with the present process are prepared, for example, from l olefins and or conjugated diolefins. The present invention is particularly applicable to the treatment of polymers which are prepared by polymerizing l olefins because such polymerization systems often employ catalysts having at least one halide atom. Preferably, the l olefins most often used contain from 2 to 20 carbon atoms.Examples of such monomers include ethylene, propylene, 1 butene, l pentene, 3 methyl l butene, l hexene, l heptene, l octene, 4 methyl l pentene, 3 methyl l hexene, 1,3 butadiene, isoprene, 2,3 dimethyl butadiene, 2 methoxybutadiene, l eicosene, 4ethyl l octadecene, 6 methyl l dodecene, 1,3 eicosadiene, 4,6 diethyl1,3 decadiene, 4,5 dimethyl l cotene, l hexadecene and the like. This invention is particularly applicable to the treatment of polypropylene to remove catalyst residues. The polymers contemplated include homopolymers, copolymers, terpolymers, and the like.Representative polymers include polyethylene, polypropylene, poly 4 methyl l pentene , ethylene propylene copolymers, ethylene l hexene copolymers, ethylenell decene copolymers, ethylene l butene l ,3 butadiene terpolymers, and the like. The invention is particularly applicable toEMI7.2 EMI8.1 the removal of catalyst residues from polypropylene and copolymers of propylene containing up to about 20 mole percent of ethylene or a higher l olefin. This invention in one of its broad aspects is applicable to the treatment of polymers prepared by the use of catalyst compositions comprising at least one component having at least one halogen atom effective for polymerization of l olefins and or conjugated diolefins.Frequently, such catalyst compositions include two or more components, for example, one of which may be a compound of a metal selected fromGroups IV, V, VI, and VIII of the Periodic Table according to Mendeleev, and the second component being selected from organometal compounds, metal hydrides, and metals of Groups I, II, and III of the PeriodicTable. Numerous examples of the catalyst compositions are well known in the art. The compounds of a metal of Groups IV, V, VI, and VIII of thePeriodic System include, for example, the oxides, hydrides, halides, oxyhalides and salts of organic acids, usually having twenty or less carbon atoms, such as formic acid of the said groups of metals, such as titanium, zirconium, chromium, thorium, molybdenum and vanadium. The compounds of a metal of Group IV of the Periodic System which can be employed can conform, for example, to the formula MXn OR m, where the sum m n equals the valence of the metal M, X is a halogen, andR is an organic radical usually having twenty or less carbon atoms, and preferably being an alkyl, cycloalkyl or aryl group or combinations, e.g., alkaryl and arylalkyl.Specific examples of such compounds are titanium tetrabutoxide tetra n butyl titanate , tetra sec butyl titanate, tetraisopropyl titanate, tetra 2 ethylbutyl titanate, tetra 2ethylhexyl titanate, tetrastearyl titanate, tetraethyl titanate, tetra chloroethyl titanate, tetra m tolyl titanate, tetraallyl titanate, tetracyclohexenyl titanate, tetracyclopentyl titanate, tetraethyl zirconate, tetramethyl zirconate, tetraisopropyl zirconate, tetraamyl zirconate, dichloro dimethyl titanate C12Ti OC2H5 2 monochloro triethyl titanate ClTi OC2H5 3 and the dichloro diethyl zirconate ClzZr OC2H5 . Also included are such compounds as Hf OCH3 4, Th OC3H7 4, Th OC6H5 4, Cl3Ti OC6H4CH3 , Zr OC4H7 4, Cl2Hf OC10H21 2, Th OC6H13 4, and Zr OC12H25 4. Of particular interest are such catalysts employing a titanium compound The titanium compound can be expressed, for example, as TiXp OR 4 p in which R is as above a hydrocarbon group containing from 1 to about 20 carbon atoms such as alkyl, cycloalkyl, aryl, and combinations, e.g., alkaryl and arylalkyl, X is a halogen usually chlorine or bromine, and p is an integer in the range of O to 4 inclusive, provided that when p is zero at least one other component of the catalyst system has at least one halogen atom. Examples of specific compounds include titanium tetrachloride, titanium tetramethoxide, titanium tetracyclohexyloxide, titanium tetrabenzyloxide, titanium chlorotrimethoxide, titanium dichlorodiethoxide, and titanium tribromo n butoxide, and mixtures. Another suitable titanium compound is titanium trichloride which can be prepared by reduction of titanium tetrachloride with hydrogen, aluminum, or an organometal compound such as diethylaluminum chloride. One commercially available titanium trichloride of interest is produced by aluminum reduction of the tetrachloride and is a complex generally expressed as TiC13.1 3 AlC13 or 3TiC13.AlC13 hereinafter expressed as 3TiC13.AlC13. Some examples of the second component which can be employed with the metal compounds described above include trimethylaluminum, triethylaluminum, triis obutylaluminum, tri n butylaluminum, tri npentylaluminum, triisooctylaluminum, tri n dodecylaluminum, triphenylaluminum, triethylgallium, triphenylgallium, tricyclohexylgallium, tri n butylindium, triethylthallium, diethylaluminum hydride, methylaluminum dichlori de, dimethylaluminum chloride, ethylaluminum dichloride, dimethylaluminum chloride, di nbutylaluminum bromide, isooctylaluminum diiodide, di n propylgallium fluoride, eicosylgallium dibromide, ditetradecylgallium fluoride, dicyclohexylgalliùm chloride, diphenylgallium bromide, diphenylindium chloride, dioctylindium fluoride, cyclohexylindium dibromide, 3methylcyclohexylaluminum di chloride, 2 cyclohexylethylgallium dichloride, p tolylberyllium iodide, di 3 phenyl l methylpropyl indium fluoride, 2 3 isopropylcyclohexyl ethylthallium dibromide, and the like. Some of the metal hydrides useful as the second component can include, as specific examples, aluminum hydride, lithium aluminum hydride, barium hydride, gallium hydride, indium hydride, sodium aluminum hydride, potassium beryllium hydride. The metals of the first, second and third groups useful in the second component are applicable as a class, the most important members being sodium, magnesium and aluminum. Of particular interest because of availability and efficacy are organoaluminum compounds which can be expressed as A1R v in whichR is as above, Y is a monovalent radical selected from among the halogens and hydrogen, and b is an integer of O to 3. Examples of specific compounds include trimethylaluminum, tridodecylaluminum, tricycl ohexylaluminum, triphenylaluminum, tribenzylaluminum, diethylaluminum chloride, ethylaluminum dichloride, isopropylaluminum dibromide, diisobutylaluminum hydride, and the like, and mixtures thereof. A third catalyst component which can be used advantageously with the first and second components described above is an organic halide or metal halide where.the organic radical is advantageously an alkyl, cycloalkyl or aryl group. In a preferred embodiment, the organic radical has thirty or fewer carbon atoms. Specific examples are ethyl bromide, ethyl trichloro titanium, l bromobenzene, cyclohexyl chloride. Also applicable are an alkali metal or ammonium halide, an aluminum halide where the catalyst also includes another metal compound such as a titanium compound , a halogen, a hydrogen halide, a complex hydride, a mixture of an organic halide and a metal, and Grignard reagent. A still more specific subgroup of catalysts where excellent color and low ash content are obtained by the practice of the invention include catalysts where an organometal compound is used in combination with a metal salt. The ratios of the catalyst compounds in a catalyst system can vary widely, depending upon the particular charge used and operating conditions, say from 0.02 to 50 mols of the first component per mol of the second catalyst component If a third component is present, the amount can vary from 0.02 to 50 mols per mol of the second component. Examples of some suitable catalyst systems in accordance with the foregoing disclosure are as follows a Aluminum trialkyls, e.g., triethylaluminum or triisobutylaluminum and the tetravalent metal halides of the type represented by titanium tetrachloride b An organic halide such as ethyl bromide , a Group IV inorganic halide such as titanium tetrachloride , and a low valence metal selected from the group consisting of alkali metals, beryllium, magnesium, zinc, cadmium, mercury, aluminum, gallium, indium and thallium, for example, magnesium, ethyl bromide and titanium tetrachloride, as such, or with the addition of metallic aluminum c A Group IV halide, for example, titanium tetrachloride, and a low valence metal identified in b , for example, sodium or magnesium d A mixture of titanium hydride and an aluminum alkyl halide, i.e., a mixture of titanium hydride and ethylaluminum sesquichloride e An organoaluminum halide such as diethylaluminum chloride and a trivalent metal halide such as titanium trichloride f A mixture of molybdenum pentachloride and organometal compounds and halides exemplified by triethylaluminum and ethylaluminum di chloride g A mixture of complex metal halides, exemplified by potassium fluotitanate, and an organometal compound and halides exemplified by triethylaluminum and diethylaluminum chloride h A mixture of a derivative selected from the oxides of, molybdenum, alkali metal and ammonium molybdates, and an organometal halide exemplified by isobutylaluminum dichloride i A mixture of a derivative of iridium, platinum and osmium selected from the group consisting of halides, oxides and complex compounds of iridium, platinum and osmium, said complex compounds corresponding to the formula M M X , wherein M is an alkali metal or an x y ammonium radical, M is iridium, platinum or osmium, X is a halogen, and y is at least 1 and the sum of x and y is equal to the valence of M and a metallic organic compound exemplified by triethylaluminum, for example, iridium chloride and triethylaluminum or ethylaluminum sesquichloride j A mixture of a derivative of a metal selected from the group consisting of halides, oxyhalides, hydroxyhalides, oxyhydroxyhalides of a metal selected from the group consisting of molybdenum, tungsten, uranium, selenium, and tellurium, and complex salts of said halides and said oxyhalides with a member selected from the group consisting of halides of sodium, potassium, lithium, rubidium, cesium and ammonia and an organometal compound exemplified by triethylaluminum, for example, molybdenum pentachloride and ethylaluminum dichloride k A chromyl halide and at least one of the following 1 a metal hydride or an organometal compound, 2 an organometal halide and 3 a mixture of an organic halide and a metal, for example, chromyl chloride, ethyl bromide and magnesium 1 A titanium derivative, a complex hydride, and a halide of aluminum for example, tetrabutyl titanate, lithium aluminum hydride, and aluminum chloride m At least one halide of titanium, zirconium or hafnium and at least one hydride of lithium, sodium, potassium, rubidium, cesium, magnesium, calcium, strontium, barium, lanthanum or thorium, for example, zirconium tetrachloride and calcium hydride n 1 A hydrocarbon derivative of one of the metals, zinc, cadmium, mercury, and magnesium and 2 a member selected from the group consisting of halides of titanium, zirconium, vanadium and molybdenum, oxyhalides of titanium, zirconium, vanadium, molybdenum and chromium, and complex salts of said halides and oxyhalides with a number selected from the group consisting of halides of the alkali metals and ammonia, for example,.diethylzinc and titanium tetrachloride o 1 A tri or tetrahalide of titanium, zirconium, hafnium and germanium, 2 an organophosphorus containing compound and 3 at least one of the following a an organometal halide, b a mixture of an organic halide and a metal, and c a complex hydride, for example, triethylaluminum, titanium tetrachloride and a triphenyl phosphine p 1 A tri or tetrahalide of titanium, zirconium, hafnium and germanium, 2 a peroxide of the formula R OOR where R is hydrogen, alkyl, aralkyl, alkaryl, cycloalkyl, acyl, alkyne, or aryl, and 3 at least one of the following a an organometal halide, b a mixture of an organic halide and a metal and c a complex hydride, for example, ethylaluminum sesquichloride, titanium tetrachloride and benzoyl peroxide q A tri or tetrahalide of titanium, zirconium, hafnium and germanium, a metal alkoxide and at least one of the following 1 an organometal halide, 2 a mixture of an organic halide and a metal, and, 3 a complex hydride, for example, ethylaluminum sesquichloride, aluminum ethylate and titanium tetrachloride r 1 A halide of titanium, zirconium, hafnium or germanium, 2 a hydride selected from the group consisting of hydrides of aluminum, gallium, indium and thallium and complexes of said hydrides with alkali metal hydrides, and 3 an organic halide, for example, titanium tetrachloride, lithium aluminum hydride and ethyl bromide s 1 A halide of titanium, zirconium, hafnium, or germanium, 2 carbide and acetylenic compounds and 3 at least one of the following Ca an organometal halide, b a mixture of an organic halide and a free metal, and c a complex hydride, for example, ethylaluminum sesquichloride, titanium tetrachloride and copper acetylide. Although specific examples of catalyst systems have been provided to illustrate the applicability of the present invention, the invention is not limited thereto but is considered applicable for deashing polymers prepared by any catalyst system containing at least one halide atom. One catalyst system which is preferred for use in the polymerization comprises a dialkylaluminum chloride and titanium trichloride, the latter compound preferably being prepared by reduction of titanium tetrachloride with aluminum. The reduction product thus prepared is a complex having the approximate formula 3TiC13.AlC13. The reduction reaction can be carried out at an elevated temperature, for example, at a temperature in the range of 360 to 6000F, preferably from 375 to 4500F. The amount of catalyst employed which is effective for polymerization can vary over a rather wide range and will depend at least to a certain degree upon the particular catalyst system utilized.However, the determination of the actual amount of the catalyst employed in any particular polymerization is well within the skill of the art. In general, the mole ratio of the organometal compound to the metal halide falls within the range of 0.02 to 50. Although not essential, it is often desirable to carry out the polymerization in the presence of elemental hydrogen, for example, to control the molecular weight of the product. In the preparation of polymers of monoolefins, a presently preferred procedure involves conducting the reaction in the presence of a catalyst comprising an alkylaluminum halide and a titanium trihalide, the temperature being maintained at a level such that the polymer is formed as a finely divided solid. The reaction is conducted in a suitable reaction diluent. While various hydrocarbons can be used as diluents, it is generally preferred that the polymerization be conducted as a mass operation in which the unreacted monomer acts as the diluent.By whatever means the polymerization is conducted, conditions are preferably maintained such that the polymer is formed and recovered as a finely divided solid particle form process . However, it is within the scope of the invention to be employed in conjunction with other polymerization processes such as liquid phase or gaseous phase processes. Broadly, the method of the instant invention comprises contacting the polymer under conditions effective for removal of impurities with amounts of treating agents according to the instant invention which are effective for removal of the impurities. When an alkyl monoether according to the instant invention is used in combination with an alkylene oxide, the amount of said monoether is preferably also effective to inhibit polymerization of said alkylene oxide and the amount of said alkylene oxide is also effective to scavenge any hydrogen halide produced. In the preferred practice of the invention the polymer is dispersed in solid state in a hydrocarbon diluent and treated in such dispersion, preferably under conditions such that the diluent remains in the liquid phase. In many instances it is convenient to conduct the polymerization using the liquid monomer as the reaction diluent under conditions to provide a pulverulent solid polymer and treat the polymer for removal of catalyst in this diluent after termination of the polymerization. However, it is within the scope of the invention to replace the unreacted liquid monomer after polymerization has been terminated with another hydrocarbon material and conduct the extraction step therein. Other suitable hydrocarbon diluents include paraffinic and aromatic hydrocarbons in which a catalyst deashing agent complex is sufficiently soluble for effective deashing.Generally, paraffinic hydrocarbons, for example those containing from such as 3 to such as 7 carbon atoms per molecule, such as pentane, heptane, mixtures thereof, and the like, can be used. In any case it is important to prevent contact of the system with air, water, or moisture prior to and during the extraction step. Extraction will be conducted in a temperature range and for a period of time effective to reduce the undesired impurities to an acceptable level without causing the polymer to be degraded. The time will vary with temperature, degree of mixing, etc., but will generally be from one minute to several hours, preferably 10 to 100 minutes. The resulting polymer slurry may then be passed to a filter, wherein the treated solid polymer is separated from the diluent which now As the results of Table I show, when no purification agent is used as in control run 1, a high level of ash 1460 ppm and high level of titanium 160 ppm are found in the polymer. Control runs 2 5 indicate that the moIiomethyl and monoetbyl ethers of diethylene glycol are not effective as purification agents for polypropylene. In contrast, control runs 6 and 7 demonstrate that the monobutyl ether of dietbylene glycol BC is particularly effective, even alone, in reducing the ash and titanium levels. It must be remembered that corrosive amounts of HC1 forms as a product, however.Invention runs 12 14, demonstrate that mixtures of the monobutyl ether of diethylene glycol and propylene oxide provide an excellent purification system. Propylene oxide itself, as control runs 8 11 show, yields good results. However, it must be remembered that polypropylene oxide can be formed which can result in clogged recycle lines. EXAMPLE II The polymerization recipe employed was as follows n hexane 100 milliliters ml 3TiC13.AlC13 0.4 grams g DEAC 3 0.909 g 5.0 ml, 25 wt. in n heptane propylene oxide 16.4 g 20 ml n butyl carbitol 5.2 g 30.6 mmoles , when used Into each 10 ounce 295 ml bottle was charged the n hexane. After purging the bottles with nitrogen, they were placed in a dry box and the DEAC and catalyst were added. The bottles were brought out, recapped, and the propylene oxide and n butyl carbitol, if used, added.Each bottle was tumbled at 700C for 4 hours in a bottle bath. On removal, the contents were poured into weighed aluminum pans to which was added methanol used to rinse out the bottles. No precipitate had formed in any of the bottles and only the control showed an increase in viscosity.Each pan was placed in a hood and the contents allowed to evaporate for 24 48 hours. The pans were then reweighed and the amount of residue determined. The results are shown in Table II. TABLE II Preparation of Polypropylene Oxide PPO Run Recovered Initial Weight a Polymer PPO No. weight, g g weight, g lieid, g 15 3.64 1.31 2.33 14 16 6.86 6.51 0.35 2 a Catalyst DEAC BC in run 16 These data show that polypropylene oxide can be formed by contact with the catalyst system employed in polymerizing propylene and which can be present in the reactor effluent slurry treated with the purification system. Run 16 indicates that the presence of the monobutyl ether of diethylene glycol substantially reduces the formation of polypropylene oxide since only one seventh 1 7 as much polymer formed as in control run 15 in the absence of the ether alcohol. EXAMPLE III Propylene was polymerized in liquid propylene in a continuous fashion by employing as the reactor a 15.2 cm diameter stainless steel pipe loop having a volume of 98.4 liters. The contents were continuously circulated by means of a pump. Catalyst was intermittently added in pulses about 60 minute and effluent intermittently taken off during each run. The catalyst consisted of 3TiCl3. AlCl3 of the type used inExample I and the cocatalyst was DEAC as a 25 wt. solution in n hexane.The concentration of DEAC varied from about 280 to 460 ppm based on the reactor contents as the mole ratio of DEAC to TiC13 was varied from about 3.2 1 to about 5.2 1. Triphenyl phosphite was added as a reactor adjuvant and molecular hydrogen was employed to control molecular weight of the polypropylene produced. The average residence time during polymerization was 1.8 hours, the reactor temperature was 790C, the propylene feed rate to the reactor was 48.8 liters hour, and at steady state conditions the reactor was operated to provide 40 wt. solids throughout all runs. The reactor effluent was passed to the bottom of a 3 stage contactor column having a capacity of 58.6 liters and operated so that the upper stage was at 740C, the middle stage was at 770C, and bottom stage was at 780C. Deashing chemicals tested included n butyl carbitol BC alone, propylene oxide PO alone, and a combination of the two. In these purification systems, one equivalent of the chemical used for Ti and Al removal is considered to be 3 moles of chemical per mole of combined Ti and Al compounds present. One equivalent of the chemical used for chloride scavenging propylene oxide is considered to be one mole of chemical per mole of chloride present. Unless specified to the contrary, the chemical was added to the bottom first stage of the contactor. The slurry leaving the contactor was then passed to a 15.2 cm diameter wash column where the catalyst residues solubilized in the contactor were washed from the slurry by a counter current flow of propylene at a temperature of 330C and a rate of 1.6 kg liquid wash propylene per kg of polypropylene contained in the slurry. The top of the wash column was maintained at 630C. Polypropylene was recovered from the washed slurry leaving the wash column and stabilized with 0.0005 kg of 2,6 di t butyl 4methylphenol per kg of polymer. The amount of ash and titanium in ppm of each polymer was determined as described in Example I. The polymerization and contactor conditions employed and the results obtained are given in Table III. TABLE III Polymerization and Purification of Polypropylene Mole Contactor H2O Ratio H2 Purification System PO In C3 Cat. Polymer Prod.Run a DEAC DEAC Mole Mole Ratios Input Output Wash Prod. Melt Ash TiNo. TiCl3 ppm PO b BC c BC PO Wt. Wt. ppm g g e Flow ppm ppm 17 C 3.99 424 0.10 7.0 0 0.47 0.14 30 2090 3.8 205 38 18 C 4.28 419 .08 7.2 0 .47 .07 30 2430 1.5 320 52 19 C 4.27 400 .11 16 0 .94 .50 30 2590 3.9 175 27 20 C 4.19 426 .11 15 0 .94 .74 1 2390 4.6 133 22 21 I 4.43 422 .11 7.7 1.8 0.23 .47 .14 2.5 2190 5.5 100 15 22 I 4.90 458 .11 13 3.7 0.28 .94 .35 2.5 2360 6.6 85 14 23 I 4.59 427 .08 1.7 3.9 2.3 .10 .02 5 2340 4.0 120 16 24 I 4.43 415 .08 1.7 3.9 2.3 .10 .01 2 2490 1.7 60 13 25 I 5.17 436 .08 1.7 2.1 1.2 .06 .01 2 2690 1.9 90 14 26 I 4.79 408 .08 1.7 3.6 2.1 .08 .01 2 2490 1.8 85 10 27 I 3.18 281 .08 2.0 6.0 3 .10 .01 2 2620 1.7 90 12 28 I 3.30 290 1.21 2.0 6.0 3 .10 .01 1.5 2510 4.9 80 12 a C represents a control run I represents an invention run. b Mole ration base on moles per gram atom of chloride. c Mole ratio based on moles per gram atom of total metals. d Mole ratio with BC based on total metals, i. e., Ti and Al, and PO based on chloride. e Productivity based on gram polymer per gram TiCl3 per hour. f BC to bottom stage of contactor, PO to top stage of contactor.The triphenyl phosphite ti CiCl3 mole ratio was 0.15 to 1 for runs 17 22 and 0.20 to 1 for runs 23 28. The results of control runs 17 20 indicate that propylene oxide is a fairly efficient purification agent when used alone, particularly, if low levels of water are present in the wash propylene note run 20 vs. runs 17 19 . Although no polypropylene oxide was detected in either the slurry leaving the contactor or in the recovered polypropylene in these tests it must be remembered that it was formed in tests with the commercial unit and that its presence resulted in line plugging problems. The results of invention runs 21 28 indicate that the BC PO system is effective in catalyst deashing. The results of run 24 shows that feeding BC to stage one of the contactor and PO to stage 3 of the contactor is no more effective than feeding both agents to stage one.The amount of titanium in the product is consistently low even when less than one equivalent 3 moles of the monobutyl ether of diethylene glycol BC is used per mole of aluminum and titanium present in the reactor effluent. In terms of mole ratios of BC to PO defined as the ratio of the moles of monobutyl ether to gram atoms of total metal in the catalyst charged to moles of propylene oxide per mole of chloride in the catalyst charged , invention runs 21 28 show that excellent reduction of ash and titanium is achieved from about 0.2 1 to about 3 1. Ash content in run 23 was higher than expected for no apparent reason. A comparison of runs 24 to 28 of Example III to runs 12 to 14 ofExample I indicate that addition of relatively large amounts of butyl carbitol in runs 12 to 14 was no more effective than the relatively smaller amounts employed in runs 24 to 28. Accordingly, amounts in ranges indicated by runs 24 to 28 are presently preferred, although amounts and ratios outside those ranges are also functional. As required detailed embodiments find illustrative, runs of the present invention have been disclosed herein. However, the instant invention is not limited thereby but by the claims appended thereto.