# Hart butter fat composition, its preparation and use in chocolate manufacture.

## Abstract
Hard butter fat comprising at least 75 symmetrical triglycerides of C₁₆ C₁₈ saturated fatty acids and C₁₈ cis unsaturated fatty acids and less than 13 unsymmetrical triglycerides of these same fatty acids, and having a stearic to palmitic acid ratio of from 1.2 1 to 2 1 and a melting point of less than 98.6 F.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A hard butter fat composition characterized by a from 75 to 99 by weight of a mixture of symmetrical triglycerides of the formula EMI26.1 b less than 13 by weight of unsvmmetrical triglycerides selected from the group consisting of EMI26.2 whereinEMI26.3 saturated fatty acid,EMI26.4 cis unsaturated fatty acid andEMI26.5 is a 16 or C18 saturated fatty acid said hard butter fat composition having a stearic to palmitic acid ratio of from 1.2 1 to 2 1 and a complete melting point of less than 98.6 F 37 C . A A chocolate confection characterized in that it comprises sugar, cocoa, and a fat composition according o any of Claims 1 to 7. 9. A composition useful for the manufacture of chocolate haracterized by a rom 5 to 95 of a composition according to Claim 7 and b from 5 to 95 cocoa butter. 10. A process for making a hard butter fat composition ccording to Claim 1 characterized by lowering the cncentration of unsymmetrical triglycerides in cocoa order to below 13 by weight of the cocoa butter. A A composition according to Claim 1 characterized inFat t least 90 of the cis unsaturated fatty acid is bleic acid. . A composition according to Claim 1 or 2 characterized in that said symmetrical triglyceride comprises at least 358 by weight of the hard butter and said unsymmetrical ariglycerides comprise less than 9 of the hard butter. 4. A composition according to Claim 3 characterized in that said symmetrical triglyceride comprises at least 90 of the hard butter and said unsymmetrical triglycerides comprise less than 5 of the hard butter. 5. A composition according to any of Claims 1 to 4 characterized in that said stearic to palmitic acid ratio is from 1.4 1 to about 1.8 1. 6. A composition according to any of Claims 1 to 5 caracterized by 30 to 60 palmitoyloleoylstearin 25 to 35 oleoyldistearin 10 to 20 oleoyldipalmitin and 5 to 10 other fat materials. 7. A fat composition for use in chocolate manufacture characterized by a from 65 to 95 of a hard butter composition according to any of Claims 1 to 6 and b from 5 to 35 butterfat.

## Description
ARD BUTTER FAT COMPOSITION, ITS PREPARATION AND USE IN CHOCOLATE MANUFACTURE This invention relates to the field of hard butter ccositions, confectioners butters, or cocoa butter equivalents. Cocoa butter has found extensive use in the food field as a key ingredient in the manufacture of chocolate.Cocoa butter has unique melting characteristics which give chocolate its exceptional quality of relative hardness at oom temperature, yet complete melting at body temperature.according to the literature, cocoa butter begins to often at 86 900F and completely melts about 95 E. For a natural fat this melting range is narrow. Cocoa butter is a natural product derived from. the cocoa bean. As such, it is subject to variations in price, supply, and composition. Table 1 shows analyses of natural cocoa butter from a number of different sources, and demonstrates the variability which one may anticipate in cocoa butter composition. Analysis of the composition of cocoa butter suggests that cocoa butter consists primarily about 70 80 of monounsaturated triglycerides, the major triglycerides of this type are oleoyldistearin, oleoylpalmitoylstearin, and oleoyidipalmitin a small percentage of linoleic acidcontaining glycerides are also present. Trisaturated triglycerides, as well as a number of liquid triglycerides principally of the unsymmetrical saturated diunsaturated SUU type, are also present. While the exact percentage of triglycerides making up cocoa butter itiay varv with the source, most investigators agree that these are the principal triglycerides present see Table 1 . TABLE 1 Triglyceride Composition of Natural Cocoa Butter Pencent a b c d e fP 26.2 26.4 24.3 26 24 28 25.3St 34.4 34.4 35.4 36 32 37 34.5 01 37.3 35.8 38.1 34 30 38 35.2 lie 2.1 2.5 2.2 3 2 4 3.3St P 1.3 1.3 1,5 1.4 1.4 1.4 PUP 4 . 16PUSt 57 37StUSt 22 28Total SUS 83 80 80 85 77 70 78 81PUU 14 17.6 15 20 21 15 20 17 SSS 2.0 0.9 2.0 2 1 3 1UUU 1.0 1.5 3 5 1 where P is palmitic, St is stearic Ol is oleic, Le is linoleic U is unsaturated, S is saturatedSource a Hilditch and Williams, The Chemical Censtitution of Natural Fats 4th Ed., 1964 b British Patent 1,390,936 Soeters et al, 1975 c Ganapathy, Indian Food Packer, 30, 28 1976 d Jack Wolf, Manufacturing Confecioner, 53 April, 1977 e C. J.Soeters, Fette Seifen Anstrichmittel 72, 711 1970 f Analyuses by Procter Gamble Company unreported The discovery of a satisfactory substitute for cocoa butter compatible with cocoa butter at levels up to 100 replacement would be useful. The desired substitute must, however, possess certain requirements in physical properties in order to be suitable as a cocoa butter substitute. It must possess a narrow melting point range, melt at or below body t emperature, be relatively tasteless or have a bland taste, be substantially odorless, and also be compatible with natural cocoa butter in all desirable ratios.Most importantly, it must temper under the same conditions as cocoa butter to the most stable crystalline phase. This is generally referred to as the beta ss or beta three B 3 phase However, as indicated in more detail below, various workers in the field have utilized different nomenclature, e.g. 52 State V, etc. Numerous attempts have been made to obtain a cocoa butter substitute or a better confectioners or hard butter fat by the hydrogenation of cottonseed and palm oils, interesterification of natural fats, fractional crystallization of palm oil, tallow and other natural fats. None of these methods has been wholly satisfactory in producing a cocoa butter substitute which when mixed with chocolate liquor cocoa nib , sugar, and other ingredients of chocolate will produce a chocolate confection using the same processing steps as are currently being used for added cocoa butter.Nor have they produced a fat which can be used to make equally good solid.and enrobed chocolate confections. In order to provide the expected chocolate properties of mouth melt and hardness plus resistance to bloom on storage, cocoa butter when tempered with the appropriate other ingredients must be in the proper crystalline state, called 5 3. This is not straightforward because cocoa butter exhibits polymorphism, that is, it can exist in several different crystalline forms, The alpha form changes at room temperatures to the beta prime 6 3 form, melting point 800 840F, which then changes more slowly to the stable beta three f3 3 modification with a melting point of 930 950F. The development of the correct form in the fat phase is an all important factor in the conditioning or tempering of chocolates prior to molding and enrobing.The mechanism of this tempering is complex since cocoa butter itself is a mixture of glycerides, each of which has its own polymorphic behavior. Although not completely understood, the mechanism of tempering of cocoa butter is further complicated by fats in the ingredients which are in the presence of cocoa butter in milk chocolate processing e.g. butterfat, coconut oil, peanut oil, etc. .For example, it is believed that the trans acidcontaining triglycerides in butterfat interfere with the formation of the ss 3 phase because they do not fit into the matrix formed by the symmetrical triglycerides in cocoa butter. It is believed that the saturated, short chain containing triglycerides of coconut oil interfere with the formation of the 5 3 phase for the same reason. Other materials which have been implicated in the unsatisfactory performance of cocoa butters are fatty acids, partial glycerides, and fully saturated triglycerides. Accordingly, it is an object of tis invention to produce a hard butter fat which has a clear advantage over cocoa butter in confection processing in that it tolerates crystal interfering materials such as trans acids trisaturates, and liquid triglycerides which are introduced into chocolate with butterfat, coconut oil, etc. It is a further object of this invention to produce a hard butter fat which has an advantage over cocoa butter because it can be mixed with 30 or more , er or milk fat based on the fat phase during the anufacture of milk chocolates without affecting the uaiity of the product or the processing conditions, Snereas cocoa butter cannot. It is also an object of the present invention o provide a hard butter fat which is completely comatible with cocoa butter and can be used to replace cp to 100 of the added cocoa butter in a chocolate ormulation without changing any of the processing conditions, e.g. enrobing, depositing, cooling and demolding. Furthermore, the hard butter fat herein tempers under the same or similar processing conditions as cocoa butter and cocoa butter containing chocolates to be stable S 3 crystalline structure of cocoa butter. Furthermore, it is an object to produce a range of hard butter fats which have the advantage that they can be used to make chocolate confections which possess various degrees of hardness. Disclosure of the Invention The present invention relates to a hard butter fat, comprising a from.75 to 99 of symmetrical tri glycerides of the formula EMI5.1 b less than 13 of unsymmetrical triglyceride of the formulaEMI6.1 wherein EMI6.2 saturated fatty acid moiety EMI6.3 cis unsaturated fatty acid moiety EMI6.4 saturated fatty acid moiety saidhard.butter fat having a stearic to palmitic acid ratio of from 1.2 1 to about 2 1 and a complete melting point of less than 9.60F. The balance of the composition is other fat materials. Definitions By hard butter fat is meant a fat which can be used to replace up to 100 of the cocoa butter added to a confection, in particular, chocolates. The hard butterfat can also be used in pharmaceutical preparations to replace cocoa butter. Hard butterfat, cocoa butter substitute and cocoa butter equivalent are used interchangeably herein. By C16 or C18 saturated fatty acid S herein7 are meant those saturated S fatty acids having.16 or 18 carbon atoms. They are stearic St and palmitic P acids. 3y C18 cis unsaturated fatty acid herein is meant those unsaturated fatty acids having one or more double bonds and which are the cis isomer. These Cl8 s unsaturated fatty acids include oleic 01 , linoleic Le , and linolenic Ln . By symmetrical disaturated cis unsaturated triglyceride SUS or symmetrical triglyceride reign, are meant those fatty acid esters of glycerine in which a saturated fatty acid occupies the 1 and 3 positions and the 2 position is esterif led with a cis unsaturated fatty acid. Examples of these SUS ompounds are oleoyldipalmitin, oleoyldistearin, palmitoyloeoylstearin, linoleoydipalmitin, lino eoyldistearin. Preferably, at least 90 of the cisunsaturated fatty acid is oleic. By unsymmetrical triglycerides herein are meant disaturated unsaturated triglyceride SSU , i.e. those esters of glycerine and fatty acids in which the 7 and 2 positions of the glycerine are esterified with a saturated fatty acid moiety and the 3 position is esterified with an unsaturated fatty acid and saturated diunsaturated triglycerides SUU , i.e., those esters of glycerine and fatty acids in which the 1 and 2 positions of the glycerine are esterified with an unsaturated fatty acid and the remaining position is esterified with a saturated fatty acid. By stearic to palmitic acid ratio St P is meant that the fat is analyzed to determine total stearic acid content and the total palmitic acid content and then the ratio of these acid contents is calculated. The stearic and palmitic acid moieties are expected to be distributed about the 1 and 3 posi.tions on the glycerine molecule. Any one triglyceride molecule can contain either two of the same fatty acids or one of each, that is, POP, POSt, or StOSt. By other fat materials are meant components such as those normally found in cocoa butter, i.e.free fatty acids, mono and diglycerides, unsaponiti able materials and similar lipids. Other tri glycerins such as trisaturated triglycerides, those containing trans unsaturated fatty acids and those found in natural oils and fats, as well as synthetic triglycerides, can be used herein. These other fat materials may be comprised of any number of carbon atoms. By comprising is meant that the composition can contain other materials so long as they do not affect the ability of the hard butterfat to function as a cocoa butter replacement. The term comprising encompasses the more restrictive terms, consisting of and consisting essentially of . All percentages used herein are by weight of the total composition unless otherwise designated. Composition The compositions herein comprise a mixture of triglycerides, with minor amounts of other fat materials such as mono and diglycerides as well as tree fatty acids. At least 75 of the composition is mixtures of symmetrical triglycerides SUS and less than 13 is unsymmetrical triglycerides. Surprisingly, the key to this invention is the control of the unsymmetrical triglyceride components.Although the mechanism is not known, and has not heretofore been disclosed, it is believed that these unsymmetrical triglycerides affect the crystalline matri which the hard butter must achieve upon tempering.It has been discovered that when the amount of unsymmetrical triglyceride is above 13 , the hard butter fat becomes increasingly intolerant to other crystalinterfering materials. then the level of unsymmetrical triglycerides is below 13t and the amount of symmetrical triglycerides is from 75 to 99 , the hard butter compositions herein can contain a number of other fat materials, including crystal interfering materials. Another aspect of this invention is that the stearic to palmitic ratio St P must be in the range of 1.2 1 to 2 1. This ratio can be used to independently control the hardness of the fats and thus the mouth melt of chocolate produced from these fats. Preferably theSt P will be from 1.3 1.5 in order to be equal to cocoa butter. However, if harder or softer fats are preferred, higher or lower St P ratios might be preferred. The preferred compositions are those in which the is SUS triglycerides are oleoyldipalmitin POP , oleoyldistearin StOSt and oleoylpalmitoylstearin POSt . A hard butter fat comprising from 30E to 60 POSt, and from 15 to 70 of oleoyldipalmitin, oleoyldistearin, and mixtures thereof is highly preferred. Preferably, the amount of unsymmetrical triglyceride will be from 1 to 9 , and most preferably from 1 to 5 of the C16 and C18 triglyceride composition. A typical hard butter fat herein will contain the following Most By Weight Preferred Preferred cis SUS 75 to 99 85 90Total SSU and SUU 13 9 c5 Other 25 6 5 The other fat materials which can be present in the compositiorl include monoglycerides, diglycerides, free fatty acids and trisaturated glycerides. These fat materials are found in many natural and synthetic fats and oils. Naturally occurring liquid triglycerides such as soybean oil, cottonseed oil, corn oil, rapeseed oil, sunflower seed oils, coconut oil, palm oil, peanut oil, etc. can also be present in the composition as can synthetic triglycerides. The other fat materials which comprise the balance of the composition are not subject to the limitation that they contain only C16 and C18 fatty acids. While the hard butter compositions herein can function effectively as cocoa butter equivalents in a composition containing up to 35 butterfat, and in the presence of other crystal interfering materials, one skilled in the art will recognize that there are limits as to the tolerance for each type and combination of crystal interfering material which may have an additive effect for any such fat composition. For example, up to 5 C16 or C18 trans fatty acid triglycerides, and up to 3 trisaturated triglycerides can be tolerated by the hard butter fats herein. Preparation The hard butter fats can be prepared by blending the pure triglycerides to the desired composition. How ever, the isolation from natural fats and oils and or the synthesis of pure triglycerides is difficult, timeconsuming, and expensive. Mixtures of the symmetrical triglycerides can be obtained from natural fats by crystallization or other isolation techniques. For example, the unsymmetrical triglycerides can be removed from natural cocoa butter by selective crystallization of the solid tryglycerides from various solvents, in particular acetone. Such a modified cocoa butter comprises at least about 90 of a mixture of oleoyldipalmitin POP , oleoyldistearin StOSt , and oleoylpalmitoylstearin POSt . Other conventional separation techniques, such as adsorption chromatography, etc. can be used to remove the unsymmetrical triglycerides and other fat components, as well as to adjust tile St P ratio of natural fats. These and similar techniques known in the art can be used to modify other fats, whether natural or synthetic, to obtain the desired compositions. The hard butter fat compositions can also be synthesized by using the process disclosed in U.S.3,809,711, issued May 7, 1974 to J. J. Yetter, Reissue 23,737 the disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference . This process involves reacting a partial polyol monocarboxylic acid ester with an acidic anhydride in the presence of perfluoroalkyl sulfonic acid catalyst to produce a specific complete mixed polyol ester. The catalyst allows the reaction to prc ceed with substantially no ester group rearrangement. The mixed polyol esters are chosen so that the specific stearic to palmitic acid ratio of the final fat is maintained. Thus, 1,3 diglycerides of palmitic and stearic acids can be esterified with oleic anhydride according to the 711 patent to produce a cocoa butter equivalent having the desired triglyceride composition. Boron trifluoride can also be used as a catalyst fo this type of synthesis. A description of this process is found in Reissue 28,728 of U. S. 3,808,245, issued to O Connor and Wyness, April 30, 1974 the disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference Other stereospecific synthetic techniques can aiso be used to produce the desired triglycerides. Chemical Analysis The triglyceride composition of natural fats has been studied byany different methods. Fractional crystallization, countercurrent distribution, various oxidation techniques, lipase splitti.ng techniques, programmed temperature gas chromatography GC , and thin layer chromatography on silver nitrate impregnated silica argentation TLC are the most often cited methods. For a good recitation of triglyceride analysis see Litchfield, Analysis of Tiacrides, Academic Press fl972. Van der Waal s fatty acid distribution theory when applied with the technique mentioned above has enabled investigators to make convenient and reasonably accurate estimates of the triglyceride compositions of most natural vegetable fats.However, the Van der Waal 1,3 random 2random distribution thedry is not applicable to the calculation of the triglyceride compositions of hard butter fats since in most cases the materials are fractions from natural fats or modified natural fats, and this theory does not apply to such fats. See Letters to the Editor , J.O.A.C.S., 902 f1979 . Therefcre, the routine analysis of the hard butters herein is done by argentation TLC, programmed temperature gas chromatography, fatty acid compcsition and lipase splitting. Argentation TLC uses silver nitrate as a complexing reagent in chromatographic separations.The triglycerides separate according to the degree of unsaturation and the position of the fatty acid in the molecule. Cis and trans fatty acids are also distinguishable. However, chain length of the saturated fatty acids cannot be determined by this method.Thus, silver nitrate chromatographic techniques can be used to distinguish between SOS, SSO and SLS, but not between POSt and POP or StOSt. For a detailed description of this process see Dallas and Padley, Lebensm. Wiss. u. Technol., 10, 332 336 1977 . The distribution df the triglycerides by fat carbon number of molecular weight can be obtained by programmed temperature gas chromatography. For a detailed description of this procedure see Eckert,Fette Seifen Anstrichmittel, 79, 360 362 1977 , andJurriens, J. Amer. O. Chem. Soc., 42, 9 1965 . By combining the results of these two analyses, a detailed compositional analysis can be calculated. rav Analvsis t Is noun .t fats may be crystallized in one of aplurality of forms, depending on the temperature and spced at which crystallization is permitted to take place. In this connection the reader is referred to Chapman, Chem. Rev., 62, 433 1962 and Lutton, J. Am. O. Chem. Soc., 43, 491 1966 , for a review of related details, especially those concerning means for identification of the various forms and their physical characteristics. As shown by Lutton, the use of X ray diffraction patterns is the most direct and can be the most informative technique for studying polymorphism. The identification, changes and transformation of forms can be followed from the H ray diffraction pattern. Because of the large differences between the width of and the length of long chain triglyceride molecules, the observed Ä ray diffractons fall conveniently into two groups corresponding to the long and short spacings.The long spacings are related to the distance between the planes formed by the methyl end groups and the horo spacings are related to the cress sectional rrangement. The long spacings for a particular phase are linear funotion of the number of carbon atoms in the constituent fatty acid chains. The number of constituent fatty acid chains has been r ferred to as the chan length multiplicity , and may be designated as doubel 2 , triple 3 , etc. for example, the beta 3 phase corresponds to triple chain lenyan multiplicity in th elong spacings . The short spacings are practically independent of the chain mengtn It is apparant, from the literature on the sub ect, that the identifying terminolygy for the crystalline forms o fats may vary depending on the investigator and in order that there may be no misunderstandings regarding tao meaning of the terms herein they have been compared in Table TABLE 2 Some polymorphs and states of cocoa butterl phase Statel Phase PhaseAlpha alpha II alpha alpha Beta prime ss IV ssí ssíStable beta ss V ss2 or ss 3 R. L. Wille and E. S. Lutton, J.Am.Oil Chem. Soc., 43 1966 . Larsson, Acta Chem.Scand., 20, 2255 1966 3U. Riiner, Lebensm. Wissench. Techol., j, 101 i97S The hard butter fats herein are character ized by their ability to temper to the stable H phase, more specifically, the ss 3 phase characteristic o cocoa butter. This phase is characterizes 7 a found ine pattern at 3. .20 angstrom , a strong line at about 4.6A , a distinctive three line pattern at 10.5, 12.6 and 15.8A , and two strong lines at 31.6 and 63A . A ten point scale, where 10 is excellent, is used to evaluate the X ray diffraction patterns of the hard butter. The scale is based on the ss 3 pattern, line resolution and intensity, and the a2 sence of non ss 3 lines. Typically for good perform ance in chocolate, a hard butterfat should have a minimal X ray grade of from 6 7, preferably it will be 8, and most preferably 9 1 . The X ray diffraction patterns described above ware obtained using a Phillips X ray diffraction spectrometer, equipped with a 60Kv copper target source, a scintillation counter, and a Moldel XRC 3100 power supply. The technique used to prepare solid fats for ray evaluation simulates the tempering procedure used in processing chocolate coatings before enrobing or molding. The technique is similar to the procedure used by Lutton J. Rmer. Oil Chem. Soc., 43, 491 1966 at page 492 , and Fincke Analytical Methods of the Office International de Cacao et du Chocolate, page 86 E lW61 . A small beaker or jar is selected so that 20 30g of fat will fill it about half full. The fat is melted and thoroughly mixed 120 1400F and then the temperature of the sample is.lowered to 70 800F with occasional stirring. This may be done in a water bath or at room temperature. Short exposure to lower temperatures 600F can be used to speed up the crystallization process however, the sample should be constantly stirred to prevent a rapid crystal growth. The sample is allowed to remain at room tempera ture until a grainy, paste like slurry of crystals has developed. The finer these crystals, the better.Occasional stirring is sufficient until crystallization starts, then more frequent stirring is necessary to maintain a fine crystal size. When the paste is thick enough to stand a stirring rod or thermometer up in it, but not completely solidified, the crystal slurry is slowly warmed with vigorous stirring. This can be done by short exposures to a water bath 100 llO F. The sample is warmed until most but not all of the crystals have remelted 82 890F . This temperature will depend on the melting point of the starting fat. The sample should still be turbid but pourable. If done slowly and carefully, the remaining crystals will be of the highest melting stable polymorphic form, and the sample is tempered. The maximum warming temperature for formation of S 3 phase fats is about 86 890F. The sample is cast in a smail vial 10 20 g and solidified at 60 F for 16 24 hours, then held at 70 F for 24 hours. The sample is then analyzed byX ray diffraction. Use the hard butter fat or modified natural fats prepared above can be used to make any number of confections. They can be substituted for up to 100 of the added natural cocoa butter now used in various confections such as milk chocolate, dark chocolates topical chocolates and other sweet snacks. Tha is, the hard butter fat can be used anywhere from 1 to 100 of the cocoa butter added to the formulation This is primarily due to the low level of ansymmetri cal triglycerides and to the ability of these fats to crystallize to the stable ss 3 form similar to cocoa butter. Preterred compositions of these hard butoe fat and cocoa putter f or use 9.s added fat , choco late manufacture are those comprising from 5 to 95 cocoa butter and 95 to 5 of the compositions or this invention. Table 3 summarized the composition of Four fats and cocoa butter. Fats 1 through 4 are cre tarred embodiments of this invention. TABLE 3 Compositional Data for Several Fats Cocoa Fat Fat Fat Fat Composition Butter 1 2 3 4 Cis SUS 76 91 93 86 89 ol unsymetricals 15 6 5 6 5 ther 9 3 2 t P 1.4 1.5 2.0 1. Fats 1 and 2 were prepared by the method described in Example 1. Fats 3 and 4 were preparc1 bya process as described in Example 2. Tolerance to trans triqlycerides in Fat Blends Summarized in Table 4 are X ray data demonstrating improved tolerance to SES disaturated C16 or C18 fatty acid elaidyl triglycerides . SES was present or added to each of the fats at 4.5 . The presence of this SES caused a change in the crystallization properties of these fats. TABLE 4 X ray Data Demonstrating Improved Tolerance to SES trans acids Fat Unsymmetricals SES X ray Grades cocoa butter 15 4.5 7Fat 1 6 4.5 9Fat 3 6 4.5 8 measured on fat blends as described in Example 5 Tolerance to trans triglyceride in Chocolate A further demonstration of this improved tolerance to trans fatty acid triglycerides occurred when milk chocolates were prepared according to the procedure in Example 4 from cocoa butter, Fat 1, andFat 3, all containing SES. Chocolate prepared at a butterfat level of 20 from the SES cor.taining cocoa butter did not enrobe well, did not set up and did not demold well. The solid bars showed signs of bloom formation. Chocolate prepared from Fats 1 and 3 containing SES enrobed well and had a viscosity only slightly higher than the control. The finished chocolate demolded well and showed good gloss. Tolerance to Trisaturates in Chocolates Improved tolerance to trisaturated trigly cerides was demonstrated when cocoa butter and Fat 1 containing hardened palm oil Iodine Value of 3 at levels of 28 and 4 were used to make four milk chocolate preparations containing 6.498 butterfat which is equivalent to 20 of the total fat system. Both chocolates prepared from cocoa butter andFat 1 containing hardened palm oil at the 2 and 4 leve solidified faster and were significantly more viscous than a typical chocolate made with cocoa butter. The chocolate prepared from the hardened palm o containing cocoa butter did not set up when passed through the cooling tunnel. Solid bars showed poor mold release at 2 and no mold release at the 4 hardened palm oil level. The chocolate bars assumed dull and grainy appearance soon after their removal from the cooling tunnel. On the other hand, chocolate prepared from Fat 1 containing both 2 and 4 hardened palm oil, while significantly more viscous at the enrobing temperature than a control sample of Fat 1 chocolate, did set up when cooled, and showed good gloss and good mold release. Tolerance to Trisaturates in Fat Blenchs 1 Fat blends were also made from Fat 1 and cocoa butter with 0.5, 2 and 4 hardened palm oil. those fats blends were evaluated by complete melting et, penetration data, and X ray analysis Directionally,Fat 1 showed better tolerance than cocoa butter for trisated triglyceride impurities. Both fats nad increased melting points and reduced ss 3 X ray quality wever t 1 was directionally better. These data emonstrate the improved tolerance to trisaturated 2iglycerides by the hard butter fats herein. to rance to Butterfat Milk choclate candies are conventionally pre pared using a fut system that is made up of cocoa butter and butterfat. The butterfat is usually present at about 20 of the fat muxture. In order to demonstrate th improved tolerance to butterfat, two milk chocolate smples containing 35 butterfat were prepared using cocoa butter and Fat 1 as in Example 4 . The cocoa butter chocolate CiC not enrobe well, did not set up, and did not demold well, whereas the chocolate prepared from Fat 1 enrobed well, demolded properly and gave no evidence of bloom formation. The Fat 1 chocoate also showed better heat Stability. these data demonstrate improved toler ance Ot the hard butter fat herein to added butterfat in chocolate processing.X ray data confirming this improved toler ance to butterfat are short in Table 5. A simulated chocolate rat phase oils Example 5 comprising a mix ture of 30 butterfat and 70 cocoa butter showed poor S 3 development X ray grade of 5 , ile a mixture of 30 butterfat, 22 cocoa butter and 48 Fat 1 a prererred embodiment of this invention showed good ss 3 development X ray grade of 8 . The 22 cocoa butter epresents te amount which would be added to the chocolate via the chocolate liquor. TABLE 5 X ray Data Demonstrating Improved Tolerance to ter Fat X ray Grade at Fats 2 Unsvmmetricals nutter Fat Levels 0 20 10 Cocoa butter 15 10 9 5 Fat 1 6 10 10 8 X ray scale fran 10 1 where 10 is excellent and 1 is very poor. as prepared in Example 5 Compatibility With Cocoa Butter Milk chocolate was also prepared using each designated fat according to a standard chocolatemaking procedure described in Example 3 wherein all the added cocoa butter has been replaced by Fats 1, 3 and 4. Table 6 shows the evaluation of the chocolate as prepared by Example 3 or 4. As is evident from this Table, Fats 1, 3 and 4 are compatible with cocoa butter in this context and can replace up to 100 of the added cocoa butter in chocolate. TABLE 6 Cocoa Butter Fat 1 Fat 3 Fat 4Processing good good good goodDemolding good good good goodGloss good good good goodBloom none none none noneHardness normal normal normal harderSnap good good good gooci Changing the Hardness of Chocolate Table 6 also demonstrates that the hardness of chocolate can be altered without affectIng any of the other important characteristics such as processing, gloss, bloom, etc.It is postulated that the chocolate mauve from Fat 4 is harder, due to its St P ratic f 1.9 1. For comparison, the St P ratio of cocoa butter is 1.4 1. A hard butter fat with an St P ratio of 1.2 1 ould make a chocolate which is softer than cocoa butter yet have properties equivalent to those shown in Table 6. The complete melting point of Fat 4 is 93 95 0F compared to 92 93 F for cocoa butter and 93 94 F for Fat 1. Thus the St P ratio can be used to provide a product with unique hardness and melting paint ranges. Other Uses The hard butter fats can also be used to modi fy the behavior of other fats and to replace cocoa butter in pharmaceutical preparations. For example, it can be used in a spreadaple eleaginous food, i.e. a margarine or butter substitute type product in which the cocoa butter iquivalent or hard butter fat affects the physical characteristics of art fat or oil shortening composition to lend additional stability to the product at room temperature at maintain or enhance a melt in the mouth effect when eaten Best Modes EXAMPLL 1 Preparation of Fat 1 To 50 lbs. of cold acetone about 32 F was added, with stirring7 5 1bs. of melted cocoa butter about 1300F . The mixture was stirred for an addi tional 1 z minutes, then covered and allowed to stand for about 16 hours r about 320 400F The solid fat was broken up and removed from ne acetone by vacuum filtration. The solids were washed with 25 Ibo. of cold acetone. The residual acetone was removed by evaporation on the steam bath and finally stripped off under vacumm. About 4.3 1 lows. of solid fat were recovered epresenting a yield of 80 . The composition of the starting cocoa butter and this modified cocoa butter are Coca Butter Modified SUS 75 91 SUU 16 5 Other ft materials 9 4 mp 92 93 F 93.2 93.8 F X ray excellent S 3 excellent S 3 grade 10 grade 10 St P 1.4 1.5 Fat 2 was alse prepared in a similar manner. EMAMPLE 2 Preparatiion of Fat 4 Palm oil having an iodine value of less than 4 was reacted with glycerine In a glycerolysis reaction using 0.2 sodium hydroxide as catalyst. The 1,3 diglycerides were separated from the glycerolysis reaction using a fractional crystallization which produces 1,3 saturated diglycerides of greater than 96 purity. This diglyceride was esterified with oleic anhydride, the ratio of oleic anhydride to 1,3diglycerides being about 1.5 1. The esterification was performed in accordance with the procedure described in Reissue Patent 28,737. The triglyceride was winterized, bleached, and deodorized to produce a cocoa butter replacement fat with a melting point of 93.20 to 94.70F. A chemical analysis of the fat was made using argentation TLC, programmed temperature gas chromatography, fatty acid analysis and lipase splitting. The following composition was calculated from this data.Triglyceride by Weight oleoyldipalmitin POP 11 oleoylpalmitylstearin POSt 39 oleoyldistearin StoSt 33 SSOSOO 9 SLS 6 monoglyceride .ï diglycerides 3 other materials 2.9St P 1.9 Fat 3 was prepared in a similar manner. Chocolate candies were made from Fat 4 and cocoa butter by the method described In Example 3. XAMPLE 3Preparation of Chocolate Bars ngredients hole milk powder 18 onfectioners sugar 47.6 Vanillin 0.05 Lecithin O.35 Added cocoa butter or hard butterfat 18.64 2 Blended chocolate liquor 14.0 Anhydrous butterfat 1.36 1contributes 5.13 fat 2contributes 7.00 fatThe fat and chlcolate liquor were melted to about 120 f. The sugar, milk powder, and crushed vanillin were dry mixed together in a planetary mixer. Onethird of the lecithin was then added to the dry mix, followed by the chocolate liquor, butterfat, and sufficient amount of the cocoa butter or hard butterfat to form a refinabl.e paste. This paste was then passed through a 3 roll of iner at approximately 375 to 450 p.p.s.i.The refined pat was then conched in aFrisse conch at 140 f for bout 5 hours, the remainder of the fat and lecithin added, and further coached at 140 F for another hour. Chocolate solid bars and enrobed candies were made from cocoa butter and from the fat prepared inExample 1. The candies ere evaluated by a panel in paired testing. The candies made from the hard butterfat from Example 1 were equally preferred to these made from cocoa butter when tested side by side. EXAMPLE 4Alternate Preparation of Chocolate Bars 20 butterfat4 35 butterfat5Ingredients s Whole milk powder 18.0 18.0Confectioners sugar 47.6 47.6Vanillin 0.05 0.05Lecithin 0.3.5 0.35Cocoa butter or hard fat2 18.64 13.83 3Blended chocolate liquor 14.0 14.0 Anhydrous butterfat . 1.36 6.17 supplies 5.13 of butterfat 2For chocolate samples to which SES or hardened palm oil was added, the materials were mixed with the cocoa butter or the fat at the indicated level seeExample 5 3supplies 7 cocoa butter 4 butterfat 20.1 5 butterfat 5.13 6.17 5.13 13.88 7.0 6 s7 The fat and chocolate liquor were melted to about 1200F. The sugar, milk powder, and crushed vanillin were dry mixed together in a Hobart mixer. One third of the lecithin was then added to the dry mix, followed by the chocolate liquor, butterfat, and sufficient amount of the cocoa butter or hard butter fat to form a refinable paste. This paste is then passed through a 3 roll refiner at approximately 375 to 450 p.s.i.The refined pat is then combined with the remaining fat in a Hob . t mixer and conched at 1200 1400F for about 5 hours. EXAMPLE 5 Preparation of Fat Blends Fat blends were prepared by melting the cocoa butter or hard butter fat, and then blending the fats at the desired level. hardened palm oil and SES were added to the medted fats as solids. SES Blends Cocoa butter and Fat 1 were each melted and 4.8 SES added to them. The fat blends contained 95.5 cocoa butter or Fat i, and 4.8 SES. Fat 3 contains 4.5 SES, therefore, 100 of Fat 3 was used in theX ray evaluations. Hardened Palm Oil Blends The composition of these fat blends are shown in Table 7. TABLE 7 Hardened Palm Oil Fat Rlends Fat Percent Hardened Palm Oil 0.5 2 4Cocoa butter 99.5 98 96Fat 1 99.5 98 96 utterfat Blends Butterfat blends were prepared from each fat as shown in Table 8. TABLE 8 Butterfat Blends z Butterfat Cocoa Butter 0 100 20 25 75 30 70 t Butterfat Fat 1 Cocoa Butter O 78 22 20 58 22 25 53 22 30 48 22 Fat blends made from Fats 2 and 3 were identical to those tabulated for Fat 1.