# Herbicidal compositions comprising a diphenyl ether compound in admixture with another herbicide.

## Abstract
Herbicidal mixtures comprising 1 a diphenyl ether compound of the formula I

## Claims
1. A herbicidal composition, comprising 1 at least one diphenyl ether compound of the formula I EMI60.1 or a salt thereof, wherein R1 is an alkyl group optionally substituted by one or more fluorine atoms or by an optionally substituted phenyl group Rê is a hydrogen atom, a fluorine, chlorine, bromine or iodine atom, or a nitro group R is a hydrogen atom a fluorine, chlorine, bromine, or iodine atom, an alkyl group, a trifluoromethyl group, or a cyano group R4 is a hydrogen atom, a fluorine, chlorine, bromine, or iodine atom, or a trifluoromethyl group R5 is a fluorine, chlorine, bromine, or iodine atom or a trifluoromethyl group and R6 is a hydrogen ato or an alkyl group of 1 to 4 carbon atoms and 2 another herbicide not of the formula I . 2 A herbicidal composition as claimed in claim 1, wherein the compound of formula I is one in which R1 is methyl or ethyl, R is nitro, R3 is fluorine or chlorine, R4 is hydrogen or fluorine, R5 is tri fluoromethyl and R6 is hydrogen. 3. A herbicidal composition as claimed in claim 1 where the compound of formula I is the one in which R1 i methyl, R2 is nitro, R3 is chlorine, R4 is hydrogen R5 is trifluoromethyl, and R6 is hydrogen. 4. A herbicidal composition as claimed in any of claims 1 to 3 wherein the amount of the herbicide of formula I is from 0.1 to 20 parts by weight per part by weight of the other herbicide. 5. A herbicidal composition as claimed in any of claims 1 to 4 wherein the herbicide not of formula I is a grass killing herbicide. 6. A herbicidal composition as claimed in claim 5 wherein the grass killing herbicide is an aryloxy phenoxypropionic acid or a salt, ester or amide thereof. 7. A herbicidal composition as claimed in claim 6 wherein the grass killing herbicide is the butyl ester of 2 4 5 trifluoromethylpyridyl 2 oxy phenoxy propionic acid. 8. A herbicidal composition as claimed in claim 7 wherein the diphenyl ether compound of formula I is N methanesulphonyl 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethyl phenoxy 2 nitrobenzamide. 9. A herbicldal composition as claimed in claim 5. wherein the grass Xilling herbicide is paraquat. 10. A herbicidal composition as claimed in claim 9 wherein the diphenyl ether compound of formula I is N methanesulphonyl 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethyl phenoxy 2 nitrobenzamide.

## Description
This invention relates to herbicidal mixtures, and to herbicidal compositions and processes utilising them. One component of the mixtures of the invention comprises a compound of the formula I below. Compounds of this formula have been described and claimed in ourEuropean Patent Application having publicaticn number 0003416. According to the present invention there are provided herbicidal mixtures comprising 1 at least one diphenyl ether comPound of the formula I EMI1.1 or 2 salt thereof, wherein R1is an alkyl group optionally substituted by one or more fluorine atoms or by an optionally substituted phenyl group Rê is a hydrogen atom, a fluorine, chlorine, bromine or iodine atom, or a nitro 3 group R3 is a hydrogen atom, a fluorine, chlorine, bromine, or iodine atom, an alkyl group, a trifluoromethyl group, or a cyano group R4 is a hydrogen atom, a fluorine, chlorine, bromine, or iodine atom, or a trifluoromethyl group R5 is a fluorine, chlorine, bromine, or iodine atom or a trifluoromethyl group and R6 is a hydrogen atom or an alkyl group of 1 to 4 carbon atoms and 2 another herbicide not of the formula I . When either of the groups R1 and R3 ws an alkyl group, it may be an alkyl group of, for example, 1 to 12 or more carbon atoms. Within this range, R1 and R may be, for example, an alkyl group of on to six carbon atoms, for example a methyl, ethvl, propyl, isopropyl, butyl, isobutyl, sec butyl or t butyl group. When R1 is an alkyl group substituted by phenyl it may be, for example, a benzyl group in which the phenyl radical may optionally be substituted, for example by one or more halogen atoms. When RÚ is a fluorine substituted alkyl group, it may be for example an alkyl group of 1 to 6 carbon atoms substituted by one or more fluorine atoms for example it may be a monofluoro , difluoro , or trifluoro methyl group. Compounds of formula I include, for example, those in which R1 is a methyl or ethyl group, R2 is a nitro group, R is a chlorine atom, R4 is a hydrogen atom, R5 is a chlorine atom or a trifluoromethyl group, and R6 a hydrogen atom. A further group of compounds of formula I are those in which RÚ is a methyl group Rê is a chlorine or bromine atom R3 is a chlorine atom R is hydrogen atom R5 is a chlorine atom or a trifluoromethyl group R6 is a hydrogen atom. Particular examples of compounds according to formula I are listed in Table I below TABLE 1 EMI3.1 COMPOUND SEP RÚ SEP Rê SEP R SEP R4 SEP R5 SEP R6 SEP MELTING tb NO SEP POINT SEP C tb SEP 1 SEP CH3 SEP NO2 SEP Cl SEP H SEP CF3 SEP H SEP 201 tb SEP 2 SEP C2H5 SEP NO2 SEP Cl SEP H SEP CF3 SEP H SEP 161.5 tb SEP 3 SEP C3H7 SEP NO2 SEP Cl SEP H SEP CF3 SEP H SEP 179 tb SEP 4 SEP C4H9 SEP NO2 SEP Cl SEP H SEP CF3 SEP H SEP 183 tb SEP 5 SEP C6H13 SEP NO2 SEP Cl SEP H SEP CF3 SEP H SEP 171 tb SEP 6 SEP CH3 SEP NO2 SEP Cl SEP H SEP CF3 SEP CH3 SEP 117 tb SEP 7 SEP CH3 SEP Cl SEP Cl SEP H SEP CF3 SEP H SEP 185.5 tb SEP 8 SEP CH3 SEP Cl SEP Cl SEP H SEP CF3 SEP CH3 SEP 116 tb SEP 9 SEP CH3 SEP Br SEP Cl SEP H SEP CF3 SEP H SEP 164 tb 10 SEP CH3 SEP Br SEP Cl SEP H SEP CF3 SEP CH3 SEP 108 tb 11 SEP CH3 SEP H SEP Cl SEP H SEP CF3 SEP H SEP 168 tb 12 SEP C4H9 SEP H SEP Cl SEP H SEP CF3 SEP H SEP 102 tb 13 SEP CH2C6H5 SEP H SEP Cl SEP H SEP CF3 SEP H SEP 186.5 tb 14 SEP CH3 SEP H SEP H SEP H SEP CF3 SEP H SEP 124.5 126 tb 15 SEP CH3 SEP H SEP CN SEP H SEP CF3 SEP H SEP 198 199 tb 16 SEP CH3 SEP NO2 SEP CN SEP H SEP CF3 SEP H SEP 171 172 tb 17 SEP CH3 SEP NO2 SEP Cl SEP H SEP Cl SEP H SEP 182 183 tb 18 SEP C4H9 SEP NO2 SEP Cl SEP H SEP Cl SEP H SEP 198 200 tb TABLE 1 CONTINUED... EMI4.1 COMPOUND SEP RÚ SEP Rê SEP R SEP R4 SEP R5 SEP R6 SEP MELTING tb NO SEP POINT SEP C tb 19 SEP CH3 SEP H SEP Cl SEP H SEP Cl SEP H SEP 184 187 tb 20 SEP CH3 SEP Br SEP Cl SEP H SEP Cl SEP H SEP 146 147 tb 21 SEP CH3 SEP NO2 SEP Cl SEP Cl SEP Cl SEP H SEP 227.5 228 tb 22 SEP CH3 SEP NO2 SEP Br SEP Br SEP Br SEP H SEP 237 239 tb 23 SEP CH3 SEP NO2 SEP CH3 SEP H SEP Cl SEP H SEP 177.5 178.5 tb 24 SEP isoC3H7 SEP NO2 SEP Cl SEP H SEP CF3 SEP H SEP 146 tb 25 SEP CH3 SEP H SEP CF3 SEP H SEP Cl SEP H SEP 129 130 tb 26 SEP CF3 SEP NO2 SEP Cl SEP H SEP CF3 SEP H SEP 100 tb 27 SEP C3H7 SEP Cl SEP Cl SEP H SEP CF3 SEP H SEP 146 tb 28 SEP C4H9 SEP Cl SEP Cl SEP H SEP CF3 SEP H SEP 149.5 tb 29 SEP CH3 SEP NO2 SEP F SEP Cl SEP Cl SEP H SEP 148 150 tb 30 SEP CH3 SEP I SEP Cl SEP H SEP CF3 SEP H SEP 165 166 tb 31 SEP CH3 SEP NO2 SEP Cl SEP CH3 SEP Cl SEP H SEP 203 204 tb 32 SEP CH3 SEP NO2 SEP Cl SEP H SEP F SEP H SEP 162 16326 tb 33 SEP CH3 SEP F SEP Cl SEP H SEP CF3 SEP H SEP 157 158 tb 34 SEP CH3 SEP NO2 SEP Br SEP F SEP Br SEP H SEP 167 169.5 tb TABLE 1 CONTINUED... EMI5.1 COMPOUND SEP RÚ SEP Rê SEP R SEP R4 SEP R5 SEP R6 SEP MELTING tb NO SEP POINT SEP C tb 35 SEP CH3 SEP H SEP Cl SEP H SEP Br SEP H SEP 184 185.5 tb 36 SEP CH3 SEP NO2 SEP Br SEP H SEP CF3 SEP H SEP 163 167 tb 37 SEP CH3 SEP NO2 SEP H SEP H SEP CF3 SEP H SEP 165 168 tb 38 SEP CH3 SEP NO2 SEP F SEP H SEP CF3 SEP H SEP 194 195 tb 39 SEP CH3 SEP NO2 SEP CH3 SEP H SEP CF3 SEP H SEP 170 171 tb 40 SEP CH3 SEP NO2 SEP Cl SEP Cl SEP Br SEP H SEP 196 199 tb 41 SEP CH3 SEP NO2 SEP CF3 SEP H SEP Cl SEP H SEP 155 tb 42 SEP CF3 SEP NO2 SEP Cl SEP Cl SEP CF3 SEP H SEP 242 243 tb 43 SEP CH3 SEP NO2 SEP I SEP H SEP CF3 SEP H SEP 211 tb 44 SEP CH3 SEP NO2 SEP Cl SEP F SEP CF3 SEP H SEP 171 172 tb 45 SEP CH3 SEP NO2 SEP Cl SEP Br SEP CF3 SEP H SEP 244 245 tb 46 SEP CH3 SEP NO2 SEP Br SEP Br SEP CF3 SEP H SEP 244 245 tb 47 SEP CH3 SEP H SEP CF3 SEP H SEP CF3 SEP H SEP 120 tb 48 SEP CH3 SEP NO2 SEP F SEP F SEP CF3 SEP H SEP 204 205 tb 49 SEP CH3 SEP NO2 SEP CH3 SEP H SEP CF3 SEP H SEP 232 233 tb 50 SEP nC4H9 SEP NO2 SEP F SEP H SEP CF3 SEP H SEP 165 166 tb 51 SEP CH3 SEP NO2 SEP Br SEP Br SEP Cl SEP H SEP 221 223 tb 52 SEP CH3 SEP NO2 SEP Cl SEP CN SEP CF3 SEP H SEP 204 205 tb TABLE 1 CONTINUED... EMI6.1 COMPOUND SEP RÚ SEP Rê SEP R SEP R4 SEP R5 SEP R6 SEP MELTING tb NO SEP POINT SEP C tb 53 SEP CH3 SEP NO2 SEP Br SEP H SEP Br SEP H SEP 148 150 tb 54 SEP CH3 SEP Cl SEP F SEP Cl SEP CF3 SEP H SEP 172 173 tb 55 SEP nC4H9 SEP Cl SEP F SEP Cl SEP CF3 SEP H SEP 139 tb 56 SEP CH3 SEP Cl SEP Cl SEP Cl SEP CF3 SEP H SEP 195 196 tb 57 SEP nC4H9 SEP Cl SEP Cl SEP Cl SEP CF3 SEP H SEP 177 tb 58 SEP C2H5 SEP NO2 SEP F SEP Cl SEP CF3 SEP H SEP 160 161 tb 59 SEP nC3H7 SEP NO2 SEP F SEP Cl SEP CF3 SEP H SEP 153 154 tb 60 SEP nC4H9 SEP NO2 SEP F SEP Cl SEP CF3 SEP H SEP 186 187 tb 61 SEP CH3 SEP H SEP F SEP Cl SEP CF3 SEP H SEP 153 154 tb 62 SEP CH3 SEP H SEP F SEP F SEP CF3 SEP H SEP 152 153 tb 63 SEP nC3H7 SEP NO2 SEP F SEP F SEP CF3 SEP H SEP 148 149 tb 64 SEP CH2CH2C6H5 SEP NO2 SEP Cl SEP H SEP CF3 SEP H SEP 166 168 tb 65 SEP CCH2CF3 SEP NO2 SEP Cl SEP H SEP CF3 SEP H SEP 127 130 tb Further examples of compounds falling within the scope of formula I include the following compound 5 4 bromo 2 chlorophenoxy 2 nitro N methanesulphonyl benzamide Compounds of formula I wherein the group R6 is a hydrogen atom are acids and form salts with bases. Both the acid and the salt forms of the compounds may be used as herbicides. Examples of salts include metal salts and salts formed from ammonium and substituted ammonium cations. Among the metal salts are those in which the metal cation is an alkali metal cation, for example sodium, potassium, or lithium, or an alkaline earth metal cation, for example calcium or magnesium.The substituted ammonium cations include mono , di , tri and tetrasubstituted ammonium cations in which the substituents may be for example an alkyl or alkenyl radical of 1 to 20 carbon atoms cptionally containing one or more hydroxy, alkoxy or phenyl substituents. Particular examples of substituted ammonium cations include isopropylammonium, triethanolammonium, benzyltrimethylammonium, morpholinium, piperidinium, trimethylammonium, triethylammonium, methoxyethylammonium, dodecylammonium and octadecylammonium, and the ammonium salts derived from the commercially available mixtures of amines sold under the TradeNames Armeen 12D, Armeen 16D, Armeen 18D, Armeen C,Armeen S, Armeen T and Armeen 0. The compounds of formula I may be prepared by methods known in themselves. Thus, compounds wherein R6 is hydrogen may be prepared by the method outlined inScheme A. Scheme AEMI8.1 In Scheme A, an appropriately substituted carboxylic acid III is converted into the corresponding acid chloride IV by treatment with at least one molar proportion of thionyl chloride or another chlorinating agent, for example phosphorus oxychloride or phosphorus pentachloride, according to conventional procedures. The acid chloride IV so obtained is then treated with an alkane sulphonamide of formula R1SO2NH2 in the presence of an acid acceptor to obtain the compounds of the formula I . The sulphonamides R1SO2NH2 are known or may be prepared by conventional methods. The acid acceptor may be a tertiary amine, for example dimethylaniline or pyridine. The acid acceptor may also be an alkali metal carbonate, for example anhydrous sodium or potassium carbonate. Alkali metal fluorides may also be used, for example potassium fluoride or caesium fluoride. The reaction is preferably carried out in a solvent. Where pyridine is the acid acceptor, the solvent may conveniently comprise an excess of pyridineOther solvents include ketones, for example acetone, methyl ethyl ketone, and methyl isobutyl ketone, and esters, for example butyl acetate. The reaction may be carried out in the temperature range from ambient temperatures to elevated temperatures, for example from 25 0C up to 1500C. The products I may be isolated by conventional methods. The carboxylic acids I II required for Scheme A are in a number of cases known compounds not already described in the literature may, however, be prepared by the methods described for the known compounds. Compounds wherein the group R5 is chlorine or a trifluoromethyl group, R is hydrogen, halogen, or 4 cyano, and R is hydrogen, halogen or trifluoromethyl, may be prepared by reacting at an elevated temperature m trifluoromethyl benzene substituted in the 4 position with a chlorine or fluorine atom, a with meta hydroxybenzoic acid in the presence of an alkaline agent, for example sodium or potassium carbonate or b with the i sodium or di potassium salt of meta hydroxy benzoic acid.when this approach is used, the Rê substituent required in the end product in the cases where Rê is not hydrogen may conveniently be introduced by halogenation or nitration of the diphenyl ether so obtained as illustrated in Examples 5 and 7. The reaction of the meta hydroxy benzoic acid and the 4 chloro or fluoro substituted trifluoromethyl benzene is generally carried out at a temperature of from about 500C to 180 0C in a polar aprotic organic solvent, for example dimethyl sulphoxide, dimethyl formamide, sulpholane, N methyl 2 pyrrolidone, hexamethylphosphoric triamide, and similar solvents.Other solvents may also be used for example methyl ethyl ketone. The nitration of the diphenyl ether so obtained may be carried out in a conventional way, for example by using a nitrating agent such as nitric acid sulphuric acid, or potassium nitrate sulphuric acid, optionally with a solvent such as ethylene dichloride, methylene dichloride, chloroform or perchloroethylene. In a second approach for preparing the carboxylic acids III , an ester, for example the methyl ester, of 5 halo 2 nitrobenzoic acid is reacted with a phenol of formula EMI10.1 in the presence of a base such as sodium or potassium hydroxide or carbonate, or the like. The reaction is preferably carried out at a temperature of 500C to 1800C in a dipolar aprotic solvent selected from those mentioned above or in a ketone e.g. methyl ethyl ketone or other convenient solvent which is inert to the reactants. This approach provides compounds of formula III in which the carboxy group is esterified. The ester group may be hydrolysed by standard procedures for example by treatment with acid or alkali to give compounds of formula III as illustrated in Example 8.This approach necessarily provides compounds III in which R2is a nitro group. If desired, the nitro group may be reduced by standard procedures to an amino group, diazotised, and converted into a bromine or chlorine substituent, as described inExample 10 thus providing compounds III in which R2 is bromine or chlorine. Similarly, the 2 iodo compound 30 was prepared by reducing the corresponding 2 nitro compound i.e. compound no 1 of Table I to the 2 amino derivative with titanium trichloride. The 2 amino derivative was dissolved in dilute sodium hydroxide containing sodium nitrite and added to aqueous fluoroboric acid to give the corresponding diazonium salt. This was filtered off as its fluoborate salt. The fluoborate was dissolved in acetone and treated with sodium iodide in acetone to give the 2 iodo compound no. 30. The 2 fluoro compound 33 was obtained by a similar procedure starting with ethyl 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy 2 nitrobenzoate. This was reduced to the corresponding 2amino compound with titanium trichloride the 2 amino compound diazotised, and diazonium salt isolated as its fluoborate. The diazonium fluoborate was heated to give ethyl 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy 2 fluorobenzoate. This was hydrolysed to the corresponding benzoic acid with sodium hydroxide solution at room temperature, and the benzoic acid converted to its acidchloride and reacted with methanesulphonamide to give compound no. 33 in the usual way. A third approach to preparing the carboxylic acids III is to react a substituted 4 chloro nitrobenzene with meta hydroxy benzoic acid in the presence of a base as described in the first approach above. Thus reaction of 3,4 dichloronitrobenzene with meta hydroxy benzoic acid gives 3 2 chloro 4 nitrophenoxy benzoic acid. The nitro group in this compound can then be reduced to an amino group by a conventional procedure, diazotised, and converted to a bromine or chlorine atom, as illustrated in Example 9. Another method of preparing the carboxylic acids III wherein one or both of the groups R and R4 are halogen atoms and R is a CF3 group comprises reacting a 2 amino 4 trifluoromethyl 6 hydrogen or halogen substituted phenol XI with a 5 fluoro or chloro 2 nitrobenzoic acid ester as shown below 7 EMI12.1 The reaction may be carried out using methyl ethyl ketone as a solvent and with anhydrous potassium carbonate as base. The reaction may be accelerated by heating. The amino group in the derivative XII may be diazotised and converted into a fluorine, chlorine, bromine or iodine substituent by conventional procedures. The compound of the invention by the process cf Scheme A. The 2 amino 4 trifluorsmethylphenois XI required for the reaction sequence just described may be prepared by conventional methods. Thus, 2 amino 6 fluoro 4 tri fluoromethylphenol may be prepared from 2 ritro 4 tri fluoromethylchlorobenzene by reacting the latter with sodium methoxide to give 2 nitro 4 trifluoromethylanisole, and reducing this compound to 2 amino 4 trifluorometl yl anisole. The latter compound may be diazotised and converted to its fluoborate salt and heated to give 2fluoro 4 trifluoromethylanisole. This may then be nitrated to form 2 fluoro 6 nitro 4 trifluoromethyl anisole, which is then reduced to give 2 amino 6 fluoro 4 trifluoromethylanisole.Finally the latter compound is heated with a demethylating agent, for example an excess of pyridine hydrochloride to give 2 amino 6fluoro 4 trifluoromethylphenol. By way of a further example, 2 amino 6 chloro 4trifluoromethylphenol may be prepared from 3 chloro 4 hydroxy benzotrifluoride by nitrating the latter compound to give 3 chloro 4 hydroxy 5 nitro benzotrifluoride. Reduction of the latter compound for example with sodium dithionite gives the required 2 amino 6 chloro 4 tri fluoromethylphenol. Compounds of formula I wherein R6 is an alkyl group may be prepared from the corresponding compounds wherein the group R6 is a hydrogen atom, by reaction with diazo alkane. Thus where R6 is a methyl group, the corresponding compound wherein R6 is hydrogen may be reacted with diazomethane and the corresponding compound wherein R6 is methyl recovered. The procedures for carrying out such methylation reactions are well known to those skilled in the art. The compounds of formula I are useful both as preand post emergence herbicides. Pre emergence herbicides are usually used to treat the soil in which a crop is to be planted, by application before or during seeding, or after seeding and before the crop emerges. Post emergence herbicides are applied after the crop plants have emerged from the soil. Compounds of formula Ij may be used as selective herbicides in a variety of crops, including for example cotton, soya bean, peanuts, sugar beet, peas, wheat, barley and rice. They may also be used as total herbicides. They may be applied by any of the conventional techniques for applying herbicides.When applied as pre emergence herbicides they may for example be sprayed on the surface of the soil before or during seeding, or after seeding and before emergence of the crop. In some situations for example in pre emergence application to soya bean crops it may be advantageous to incorporate the compound of the invention into the soil before planting the crop. This may be done by applying the compound to the surface of the soil and then discing or harrowing the soil to mix the compound with the soil.Alternatively use may be made of the applicators which have been developed for placing herbicides in a band beneath the surface of the soil. The second herbicidal component of the mixtures according to the invention may be a selective herbicide capable of being used in admixture with a compound of formula I to control weeds in crops, for example crops of soya bean, cotton, and peas. Alternatively, the second herbicidal component may be a non selective herbicide chosen to enhance the power of the compound of formula I as a total herbicide. Examples of herbicides for use in admixture with compounds of formula I include the following A. Benzo 2, 1, 3 thiadiazin 4 one 2,2 dioxides, e.g. those of formula EMI14.1 where R1O is C1 C6 alkyl, in particular the compound in which R10 is isopropyl, common name bentazon. Such mixtures are preferably applied post emergence.B. Aryloxyphenoxypropionic acids and their derivatives salts, esters, amides and the like . Examples of such acids are 2 3, 5 dichloropyridyl 2 oxy phenoxy 7propionic acid 2 4 5 trifluoromethylpyridyl 2 oxy phenoxy propionic acid 2 4 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy phenoxy propionic acid 2 4 2, 4 dichlorophenoxy phenoxy7propionic acid 2 4 6 chlorobenzoxazolyl 2 oxy phenoxy propionic acid 4 Methyl 4 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy phenoxybut 2 enoic acidC. Dinitrophenols, for example those of formula EMI15.1 where R11 is an alkyl group of 1 to 5 carbon atoms, and their derivatives, e.g. acetates in particular such compounds wherein R11 is methyl common name DNOC , tert butyl common name dinoterb or wherein R11 is sec butyl common name dinoseb and its ester dinoseb acetate.Mixtures with dinoseb may be used for example to control weeds in peanuts, and may be applied for example at the stage when the peanut plants are just breaking through the soil surface.D. Dinitroaniline herbicides, for example those cf formula EMI15.2 wherein R12 is hydrogen or C1 C6 alkyl, cycloalkyl or alkenyl, optionally substituted with halogen. R13 is C1 C6 alkyl R14 is hydrogen, methyl or amino and P15 is trifluoromethyl, C1 C6 alkyl, methyl sulphonyl or aminosulphonyl in particular N N diethyl 2,6 dinitro 4 trifluoromethyl m phenylenediamine common name dinitramine 2,6 dinitro NN dipropyl 4 trifluoromethylaniline common name trifluralin 4 sulphonamido 2,6 dinitro NN dipropylaniline common name oryzalin . Mixtures with these com pounds may be applied pre emergence or by incorpo ration into the soil before the crop is planted.E. Phenylurea herbicides, e.g. of formula EMI16.1 where R16 and R17 are independently hydrogen, chloro, C1 C4 alkyl or alkoxy, or trifluoromethyl in particular the compound in which R16 and R17 are both chloro common name diuron , the compound in which P16 is hydrogen and R17 is trifluoromethyl common name fluometuron . These mixtures may be used for example in cotton crops.F. 2 phenylpyridazin 3 ones, e.g. those of formula EMI16.2 where R20 is hydrogen or trifluoromethyl, R21 is chloro, bromo or methoxy and R22 is amino optionally methyl substituted or methoxy particularly 5 amino 4 chloro 2 phenylpyridazine 3 one common name pyrazon and 4 chloro 5 methylamino 2 3 tri fluoromethylphenyl 3 2H pyridazinone common name norflurazon . The mixture with norflurazon may be used for example in cotton crops.G. Triazine herbicides, for example of formula EMI17.1 wherein R26 is chloro, methoxy, methylthio or ethyl thio R27 is C1 C6 alkylamino, alkoxyalkylamino 28 or dialkylamino and R is C1 C6 alkylamino, alkoxyalkylamino, cyanoalkylamino, dlalkylamino or azido particularly 2 chloro 4 ethylamino 6 isopropylamino 1,3,5 triazine common name atrazine 2 chloro 4,6 di ethylamino 1,3,5 triazine common name simazine 2 azido 4 isopropylamino 6 methylthio 1,3,5 triazine common name aziprotryne 2 chloro 4 1 cyano 1 methylethylamino 6 ethyl amino 1, 3, 5 triazine common name cyanazine . Mixtures with cyanazine may be used, for example, in cotton.H. l alkcxy l alkyl 3 phenylurea herbicides, e.g. of formula EMI18.1 wherein R29 is hydrogen or chloro and R30 is chloro, bromo or ethoxy in particular 3 3,4 dichlorophenyl 1 methoxy 1 methylurea common name linuron 3 4 chlorophenyl 1 methoxy 1 methylurea common name monolinuron 3 4 bromo 4 chlorophenyl 1 methoxy 1 methylurea common name chlorobromuron I. Thiolcarbamate herbicides such as S propyl dipropyl thiocarbamate common name vernolate . Such mixtures may be useful in weed control in peanuts.J. 1,2,4 Triazine 5 one herbicides, e.g. cf formula EMI18.2 where R31 is C3 C6 alkyl or cycloalkyl, or phenyl and R32 is methyl or methylthio in particular 4 amino 4,5 dihydro 3 methyl 6 phenyl 1,2,4 triazine 5 one common name metamitron 4 amino 6 tert butyl 4,5 dihydro 3 methylthio1,2,4, triazine 5 one common name metribuzin .Mixtures with metribuzin may be used as pre or post emergence herbicides in soya bean crops. K. Benzoic acid herbicides, e.g. those of formula EMI19.1 wherein R33 is hydrogen, chloro or methoxy and R3 is hydrogen or amino especially 2,3,6 trichloro benzoic acid common name 2,3,6 TBA 3,6 dichloro 2 methoxybenzoic acid common name dicamba and 3 amino 2,5 dichlorobenzoic acid common name chlor amben . Mixtures with chloramben may be used for example in soya bean crops.L. Diphenylether herbicides, e.g. 4 nitrophenyl 2 nitro 4 trifluoromethyl phenyl ether common name fluorodifen methyl i 2,4 dichlorophenoxy 2 nitrobenzoate common name bifenox 2 nitro 5 2 ch.loro 4 triflucromethylphenoxy benzoic acid as its sodium salt or methyl ester and 2 chlorophenyl 3 ethoxy 4 nitro 4 trifluoromethyl phenyl ether.M. Miscellaneous herbicides including N chloroacetyl N methoxymethyl 2,6 diethylaniline alachlor N chloroacetyl N 3 methoxyprop 2 yl 2,6 diethylaniline metetilachlor N, N dimethyldiphenylacetamide common name diphenamid N l naphthylphthalamic acid common name naptalam and 3 amino 1,2,4 triazole. Mixtures with naptalam may be useful in crops of soya and peanuts.N. Bipyridylium herbicides, for example, salts of the 1,l dimethyl 4,4 bipyridylium ion common name paraquat and salts of the l,l ethylene 2,2 bipyridylium ion common name diquat . Mixtures with these herbicides may be useful in the direct drilling of soya bean crops. The expression direct drilling refers to the procedure in which a crop is sown into an area of land without prior cultivation the vegetation remaining from a previous crop is killed by treatment with a herbicide which does not affect the crop being sown.O. Phosphonomethylglycine herbicides, for example salts and esters of N phosphonomethylglycine common name glyphosate . Mixtures with these herbicides may be useful in the direct drilling of soya bean crops.P . Other miscellaneous herbicides include l acetamido 3 N trifluoromethanesulphonamido 4, 6 dimethylbenzene trade name Embark 4 benzenesulphonyl 2 methyl N methanesulphonylaniline common name perfluidone 3 phenyl 5 3 trifluoromethylphenyl N methyl 4 pyridone common name fluridone and the compound having the common name alloxydim sodium, of which the chemical structure is shown below EMI20.1 Mixtures containing perfluidone or fluridone may be useful for selective weed control in cotton. Another herbicide which may be mixed with compounds of formula I to provide mixtures for selective weed control in, for example, soya bean, is the compound 2 l ethoxyimino butyl 5 2 ethylthio propyl 3 hydroxy 2 cyclohexene l one, also referred to by its code number Nip55. Other herbicidal cyclohexen l one derivatives of formula similar to the above may also be mixed with compounds of formula I . Mixtures according to the invention generally contain from 0.1 to 20 parts, conveniently from 0.5 to 2 parts, by weight of herbicide of formula I per part by weight of other herbicide, depending on the relative activity of the components. In a number of cases the optimum benefit from the use of the combined herbicides results when the proportion of the herbicide of formula I is relatively high with respect to the other herbicide e.g. from 10 to 20 parts by weight of herbicide of formula I per part by weight of other herbicide . Likewise, the amount of the mixture to be applied will depend upon a number of factors, for example the particular plant species whose growth is to be inhibited, but in general an amount of from 0.1 to 5 kilograms per hectare is usually suitable.The skilled worker in the art will readily be able to determine suitable ratios and amounts for use by means of standardised routine tests, without undue experimentation. The compounds used in the invention are preferably applied in the form of a composition, in which the active ingredients are mixed with a carrier comprising a solid or liquid diluent. The solid compositions of the invention may be for example, in the form of dusting powders, or may take the form of granules. Suitable solid diluents include, for example, kaolin, bentonite, kieselguhr, dolomite, calcium carbonate, talc, powdered magnesia, and Fuller s earth.Solid compositions also include soluble powders and granules which may comprise a salt of a compound of the invention in admixture with a water soluble carrier, or a mixture of a compound of the invention wherein R6 is hydrogen with an alkali for example sodium or potassium carbonate when mixed with water the composItion gives a solution of a salt of the compound of the invention. Solid compositions may also be in the form of dispersible powders or grains comprising in addition to the active ingredient, a wetting agent to facilitate the dispersion of the powder or grains in liquids. Such powders or grains may include fillers, suspending agents and the like. Liquid compositions include aqueous solutions, dispersions and emulsions containing the active ingredient preferably in the presence of one or more surface active agents. Water or organic liquids may be used to prepare solutions, dispersions, or emulsions of the active ingredient. The liquid compositions of the invention may also contain one or more corrosion inhibitors for example lauryl isoquinolinium bromide. Surface active agents may be of the cationic, anionic or non ionic type. Suitable agents of the cationic type include for example quaternary ammonium compounds, for example cetyltrimethyl ammonium bromide.Suitable agents of the anionic type include for example soaps, salts of aliphatic mono esters of sulphuric acid, for example sodium lauryl sulphate and salts of sulphonated aromatic compounds, for example dodecylbenzenesulphonate, sodium, calcium and ammonium lignosuiphonate, butylnaphthalene sulphonate, and a mixture of the sodium salts of diisopropyl and triisopropyl naphthalenesulphonic acid.Suitable agents of the non ionic type include, for example, the condensation products of ethylene oxide with fatty alcohols such as oleyl alcohol and cetyl alcohol, or with alkyl phenols such as octyl phenol, nonylphenol, and octylcresol. Other non ionic agents are the partial esters derived from long chain fatty acids and hexitol anhydrides, for example sorbitol monclaura.e the condensation products of the said partial esters with ethylene oxide and the lecithins. The compositions which are to be used in the form of aqueous solutions, dispersions or emulsions are generally supplied in the form of a concentrate containing a high proportion of the active ingredient, the concentrate being diluted with water before use. These concentrates are usually required to withstand storage for prolonged periods and after such storage to be capable of dilution with water in order to form aqueous preparations which remain homogeneous for a sufficient time to enable them to be applied by conventional spray equipment. The compositions of the invention may contain, in addition to carriers and surface active agents, various other constituents te increase their usefulness. They may contain, for example, buffering salts to maintain the pH of the composition within a desired range antifreeze agents, for example urea or propylene glycol adjuvants, for example oils and humectants and sequestrants, for example citric acid and ethylenediaminetetracetic acid, which help to prevent the formation of insoluble precipitates when the compositions are diluted with hard water.Aqueous dispersions may contain anti settling agents and anti caking agents. The compositions may in general contain a dye or pigment to impart a characteristic colour. Agents for increasing viscosity may be added to reduce the formation of fine droplets during spraying, and thereby reduce spray drift. Other additives useful for particular purposes will be known to those skilled in the formulation art. In general concentrates may conveniently contain from 10 te 85 and preferably from 25 to 60 by weight of active ingredients. Dilute preparations ready for use may contain varying amounts of the active ingredient, depending upon the purpose for which they are to be used however, dilute preparations suitable for many uses contain between 0.01 and 10E and preferably between 0.1 and i by weight of the active ingredient. The invention is illustrated by the followingExamples, in which all parts are by weight and all temperatures in degrees Centigrade unless otherwise stated. Examples 1 to 21 are not examples of the invention but describe the preparation of compounds of formula I . EXAMPLE 1 This Example illustrates the preparation of compound no 1 of Table 1. 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy 2 nitrobenzOic acid 1.58 g was heated under reflux in an excess of thionyl chloride 20 ml for 90 minutes. The excess of thionyl chloride was removed in a vacuum and the remaining oil taken up in dry pyridine 20 ml . Methanesulphonamide 0.45 g was added and the mixture stirred at room temperature overnight. The pyridine was removed in a vacuum and the remaining oil mixed with 2 molar hydrochloric acid and extracted with ether 2 x 100 ml . The ether extracts were washed with water 100 ml , dried, and evaporated in a vacuum. The residual solid was recrystallised from isopropanol to give 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy 2 nitro N methanesulphonyl benzamide Compound no 1 with a melting point of 2010C. In a similar way, but using the appropriate carboxysubstituted diphenyl ether and the appropriate sulphonamide in place of methanesulphonamide, the compounds listed in Table 1 were prepared, except for compounds 6, 8 and 1C, whose preparation is described in Example 3. EXAMPLE 2 This Example illustrates a method of preparing compound no 1 of Table 1 alternative to that described inExample 1. 3 2 Chloro 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy benzoic acid 20.5 g was taken up in thionyl chlorIde 50 ml and heated under reflux for 2 hours. The excess of thionyl chloride was removed under reduced pressure. The acid chloride which remained was stirred and cooled in ice and salt while dry, cooled pyridine 50 ml was added. After 5 minutes, methanesulphonamide 6.4 g was added. When it had dissolved, the ice and salt bath was removed and the mixture was left at room temperature overnight. The pyridine was then removed under reduced pressure. The residue was washed with water and dissolved in ethyl acetate. The solution was washed with 2 molar hydrochloric acid, then with water, dried, and evaporated.The residue 22 g was recrystallised from a mixture of ethyl acetate and petroleum ether b.p. 60 80 giving 3 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethyl N methanesulphonyl benzamide with a melting point of 173 174 . The benzamide derivative so prepared 1.6 g was added to mixture of concentrated sulphuric acid 6.4 ml and dichloroethane 4 ml which was stirred and kept at 0 C in an ice and salt bath. After 5 minutes, potassium nitrate 0.51 g was added in portions over a period of 15 minutes. The mixture was stirred for a further 45 minutes at OOC and then stored at 18 0C overnight. The mixture was poured into ice and water 60 ml and then extracted with ethyl acetate. The ethyl acetate extract was washed with water, dried, and evaporated. The residue was crystallised twice from a mixture of ethyl acetate and petroleum ether b.p. 60 800 and gave compound 1 1.0 g identified by its melting point and spectral properties with the compound made inExample 1. EXAMPLE 3 This Example illustrates the preparation of compounds nos 6, 8 and 10 of Table 1. Compound no 1 1.8 g in diethyl ether 50 ml containing a little methanol was cooled to OOC while a solution of diazomethane in ether was added until the yellow colour of the solution did not disappear after addition. The solution was left overnight at room temperature and a drop of glacial acetic acid was added to destroy excess of diazomethane. The solvent was removed and the remaining oil taken up in ethyl acetate and the solution washed with sodium bicarbonate solution and then with water, dried and evaporated to yield an oil. This was extracted with boiling petroleum b.p. 60 80 C . The cooled extracts deposited an oil. This was dissolved in the minimum of diethyl ether and left to stand.The white solid which separated was collected and dried to give compound no 6 0.5 g .Compounds 8 and 10 were prepared in a similar way, using diazomethane and compounds nos 7 and 9 respectively as starting materials. EXAMPLE 4 This Example illustrates the preparation of 2 chloro 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy benzOic acid. A solution of 3 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy benzoic acid 5 g in glacial acetic acid 30 ml was heated under reflux while chlorine was passed through the solution for 5 hours. The solution was left to stand for two days at room temperature and then poured into cold water 500 ml . An off white gumcny solid separated.This was extracted with ethyl acetate and the extract dried and evaporated. The brown oil remaining was dissolved in sodium bicarbonate solution and the solution extracted with ethyl acetate. The aqueous solution was acidified with hydrochloric acid. The solution was decanted from the precipitated gum, and the gum taken up in boiling hexane. The hexane solution was filtered and allowed to cool. The required 2 chloro 5 2 chloro 4trifluoromethylphenoxy benzoic acid was obtaned 1.0 g as crystals of melting point 103 104 . This acid was used as starting material for compounds 7 and 8. EXAMPLE 5 This Example illustrates the preparation of 2 bromo 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy benzoic acid. Methyl 3 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy benzoate 10 g was heated under reflux in glacial acetic acid 50 ml while bromine 19.4 g was added dropwise over a period ofl hour. The mixture was heated under reflux for a further 4 hours, and further bromine 20 g added.The mixture was heated for a further 8 hours under reflux. The acetic acid and excess of bromine were evaporated off and the residue taken up in water and brought to pH7 with sodium bicarbonate. The solution was extracted with ether and then acidified. The gummy white solid which separated was extracted with dichloromethane.The dichloromethane solution was dried and evaporated to give a white solid. This was identified as 2 bromo 5 2chloro 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy benzoic acid. This acid 8 g was heated under reflux for 2 hours in thionyl chloride 80 ml and the excess of thionyl chloride then removed. The residue was treated at lo r with a solution of sodium 0.6 g dissolved in methanol 40 ml and then heated under reflux for 1 hour. The solvent was removed and the residue shaken with water and ether. Distillation of the ether solution gave the required methyl ester 5.2 g with a boiling range of 152 154 0.1 Torr. Alkaline hydrolysis of this ester gave the carboxylic acid required as starting material for the preparation of compounds 9 and 10 of Table 1. EXAMPLE 6 This Example illustrates the preparation of 3 4trifluoromethylphenoxy benzoic acid. 3 Hydroxybenzoic acid 6.9 g was added in portions to potassium hydroxide 6.9 g in solution in dry methanol 30 ml , with stirring. When addition was complete, the mixture was left for 15 minutes at room temperature and then the solvent removed under reduced pressure. The residue was dissolved in dimethylsulphoxide 30 ml and anhydrous potassium carbonate 2.5 g was added, followed by p chlorobenzotrifluoride 9.03 g in dimethyl sulphoxide 10 ml dropwise, with stirring. The mixture was stirred and heated at 1150C for 20 hours, then cooled and poured into water.. The mixture was extracted twice with ethyl acetate and the aqueous solution then brought to pH2 with concentrated hydrochloric acid. The solid which separated as dried and washed with petroleum b.p. 4060 C and recrystallised from a mixture of toluene and petroleum to give 6.6 g of the required 3 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy benzoic acid having a melting point of 140 142 0C, which was used as a starting material for compound no 14 of Table 1. EXAMPLE 7 This Example illustrates the preparation of 5 2 cyano 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy ber.zoic acid, used as the starting material for compound no 15 of Table 1, and of 2 nitro 5 2 cyano 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy benzoic acidr useful as the starting material for compound 16. a Preparation of 3 2 cyano 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy benzoic acid 3 Hydroxybenzoic acid 27.6 g , 4 chloro 3 cyanobenzotrifluoride 41.1 g and anhydrous potassium carbonate 55.2 g were stirred together for 71 2 hours at 100 C in dry dimethylformamide 500 ml and then left at room temperature for 65 hours. The solvent was then removed under reduced pressure and the residue taken up in water and acidified with dilute hydrochloric acid.The solid which separated was washed with water, dissolved in ether and the solution dried and concentrated.The colourless solid which separated was recrystallised to give the benzoic acid derivative 24.0 g wlth a melting point of 224 2262C. b Preparation of 5 2 cyano 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy 2 nitrobenzoic acid The product from a 9.22 g was added in portions to a mixture of 1,2 dichloroethane 25 ml and concentrated sulphuric acid 40 ml stirred at 0 C. Potassium nitrate 3.13 g was then added in portions with stirring at 0 C, over a period of 15 minutes. The mixture was then stirred at 0 C for 30 minutes, allowed to warm to room temperature, and poured into 200 ml of ice and water. The mixture was stirred until the ice had melted, and filtered with suction. The solid which separated on evaporation of the dichloroethane was washed with water and taken up in ether. The ether solution was treated with charcoal, dried and petroleum b.p. 40 600C added.The solid which separated was identified as the required benzoic acid derivative 7.8 g having a melting point of 190 192 0C. EXAMPLE 8 This Example illustrates the preparation of 5 2,4dichlorophenoxy 2 nitrobenzoic acid, useful as the starting material for the preparation of compound no 17 of Table 1. The known compound methyl 2 nitro 5 2,4 dichlorophenoxy benzoate 55.0 g was heated under reflux with 2 molar sodium hydroxide solution for 4 hours. The clear solution was cooled and acidified with hydrochloric acid.A yellow gum separated, which crystallised on stirring.The solid was recrystallised from toluene to give the required benozoic acid derivative 30.2 g , with a melting point of 167.5 169.5 C. EXAMPLE 9 This Example illustrates the preparation of 3 2,4dichlorophenoxy benzoic acid. a Preparation of 3 2 chloro 4 nitrophenoxy benzoic acid A mixture of 3 hydroxybenzoic acid 5 g , dimethyl formamide 50 ml , 3,4 dichloronitrobenzene 7 g and anhydrous potassium carbonate 10 g was stirred and heated at 1000C for 14 hours. The solvent was removed under reduced pressure and the residue poured into water and acidified with 2 molar hydrochloric acid. The yellow solid which separated was recrystallised from toluene to give the required benzoic acid derivative 8.0 g with a melting point of 172 173 C. b Concentrated hydrochloric acid 200 ml was added dropwise to a mixture of 3 2 chloro 4 nitrophnenoxy benzoic acid 20 g and granulated tin 40 g , the temperature being kept at 10 15 C. When addition was complete, the mixture heated at 600C for 43 minutes, ethanol 100 ml added, and the heating continued for another two hours. The mixture was allowed to cool, and the solid which separated was collected, dried, and extracted with hot methanol. Evaporation of the methanol extract gave the hydrochloride cf 3 1 anlno 2 chloro phenoxy benzoic acid 19.5 g , with a melting point of 22 232 0C decomp . c The product 10 g from paragraph a was dissolved in dimethyl formamide 150 inn , cooled to 5 100C and concentrated hydrochloric acid 40 ml added dropwise, the temperature being kept at 10 15 C. The mixture was then kept at 5 C while sodium nitrite 5.2 g in water 20 ml was added dropwise with stirring over a period of 30 minutes. The solution so prepared was added dropwise to a solution of cuprous chloride 19 g in concentrated hydrochloric acid 150 ml kept at 10 C, giving a thick green suspension. When addition was complete, the mixture was left to stand overnight and then heated to 600C for 30 minutes. The white solid was filtered off, dried, and recrystallised from petroleum 100 1200C to give 3 2,4 dichlorophenoxy benzoic acid 5.1 g with a melting point of 143 144 C.This compound was used as starting material for compound no 19 of Table 1. EXAMPLE 10 This Example illustrates the preparation of 2 bromc5 2,4 dichlorophenoxy benzoic acid useful as a starting material for compound no 20 of Table 1. a Preparation of 2 amino 5 2,4 dichlorophenexy benzoic acid hydrochloride. Concentrated hydrochloric acid 100 ml was added dropwise to a mixture of 5 2,4 dichlorophenoxy 2nitrobenzoic acid 10 g and granulated tin 20 g cooled to 10 150C. The mixture was then heated to 60 700C for 1 hour. Ethanol 100 ml was added and the mixture heated for a further 2 hours at 60 70 C. The precipitate was collected and recrystallised from ethanol to give the hydrochloride 3.8 g with a melting point of 166 168 C with decomposition. b Preparation of 2 bromo 5 2,4 dichlorophenoxy benzoic acid The product from a above 3.8 g dissolved in dimethyl formamide 100 ml was cooled to 5 C and concen trated hydrochloric acid 50 ml added. The solution was kept at 5 10 C while sodium nitrite 2.0 g in water 10 ml was added dropwise with stirring. The solution so prepared was added dropwise to boiling hydrobromic acid 48 75 ml containing cuprous bromide 7 g . When addition was complete the reaction was heated for another 15 minutes and then allowed to cool to room temperature.The mixture was diluted with water and extracted with ether. The ether extracts yielded an oil which solidified on standing and was recrystallised from petroleum b.p.100 120 C to give the bromo acid 1.0 g with a melting point of 132 133 C. EXAMPLE 11 This Example illustrates the preparation of compound no 21 of Table 1. a Preparation of ethyl 2 nitro 5 2,4,6 trichlorophenoxy benzoate. 2,4,6 Trichlorophenol 12.0 g and anhydrous potassium carbonate 44 g in dimethyl formamide 60 ml were heated under reflux for 90 minutes and then left to cool overnight. Half of the dimethyl formamide was then distilled off. The remaining solution was cooled to 150 1600C and ethyl 5 chloro 2 nitrobenzoate 13.3 g was added. The mixture was then heated under reflux for 8 hours. The dimethyl formamide was then removed under reduced pressure and the residue shaken with water 250 ml and ether 250 ml . The ether layer was evaporated and washed with water and then dried and evaporated. The remaining oil was distilled and the fraction 9.9 g boiling at 1900 0.1 Torr was collected and identified as the required ester. b Preparation of 2 ntro 5 2,4,6 trichlorophencxy benzoic acid The product from paragraph a 6.86 g in ethanol 50 ml was heated and stirred with a solution of sodium hydroxide 0.8 g in water 10 ml at 60 70 C for 4 hours.The mixture was then cooled and the ethanol removed under reduced pressure. The residue was diluted to 100 ml with water and brought to pH2 with concentrated hydrochloric acid. The solid which separated was collected and recrystallised from toluene to give the required benzoic acid derivative 4.26 g with a melting point of 192192.50C. c Preparation of compound no 21 The product from b above 1.5 g was heated to reflux in thionyl chloride 10 ml for 9 hours and the excess of thionyl chloride then removed under reduced pressure. The residue was taken up in pyridine 20 ml and stirred with methanesulphonamide 0.7 g for 7 hours and the solution then left to stand for two days. The pyridine was then removed under reduced pressure. The cil which remained was mixed with 2 molar hydrochloric acid 50 ml and the solution extracted with ether 100 ml . The ether solution was washed with water 100 ml and then dried and evaporated to give a solid which was recrystallised from toluene, to give 2 nitro 5 2,4,6 trichlorophenoxy N methanesulphonylbenzamide 1.05 g with a melting point of 227.5 C. EXAMPLE 12 This Example ilustrates the preparation of 2 nitro5 2,4,6 tribromophenoxy benzoic acid, useful as starting material for the preparation of compound no 22 of Table 1. a Preparation of ethyl 2 nitro 5 2,4,6 tribromophenoxy benzoate. Ethyl v chlorc 2 nitrokenzzate 10 g and 2,,6 tribromophenol 14.6 g were heated and stirred with sodium carbonate 6.1 g in dimethyl formaniide at 130cm for 17 hours. A further quantity of sodium carbonate 6.1 g was then added and the mixture heated under reflux for another 38 hours. The solvent was removed under reduced pressure ad the residue shaken with water and dichloromethane. The dichloromethane was dried and evaporated and the residue taken up in ether and the ether solution washed with water. The ether solution was dried and evaporated to leave an oil. This was distilled and the fraction 2.14 g boiling at 202 210 C 0.1 Torr collected. b Preparation of 2 nitro 5 2,4 2,4,6 tribromophenoxy benzoic acid The ester from a above 4.9 g was stirred ir. ethanol 50 ml with sodium hydroxide 0.4 g dissolved in water 5 ml at 60 70 C for 4 hours. The solvent was then removed under reduced pressure and the residue taken up in water and heated and stirred at 60 C for five minutes. The solution was cooled and brought to pH2 with hydrochloric acid and extracted with ether 200 ml . The ether extracts yielded an oil which was dissolved in sodium carbonate solution and the solution extracted with dichloromethane. The aqueous solution was then acidified and extracted with ether. The ether extracts yielded an oil which was recrystallised from a mixture of toluene and petroleum, to give the acid 1.86 g with a melting point point of 162 169.5 C. EXAMPLE 13 This Example illustrates the preparation of N methanesulphonyl 5 2 fluoro 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy 2 nitrobenzamide Compound no. 38 of Table I . a Preparation of methyl 5 2 fluoro 4 trifiuoromethyl phenoxy 2 nitrobenzoate. 3 Fluoro 4 hydroxybenzotrifluoride prepared as described in paragraph c of Example 16 0.6g in dimethylsulphoxide 5 ml was added in portions to a suspension of sodium hydride 50 oil dispersion, 0.16g, petroleum washed in dry dimethyl sulphoxide 10 ml and the mixture stirred at room temperature for 30 minutes. A solution of 3 methoxycarbonyl 4 nitrofluorobenzene 0.66g in dimethylsulphoxide 5 ml was then added.The mixture was stirred for 45 minutes and then heated at 100 for 90 minutes. The mixture was then cooled and poured into water 100 ml . The mixture was extracted with ether 150 ml and the extract washed with water 100 ml , dried MgS04 , and evaporated to give a yellow oil 0.8g which solidified. This was purified by thin layer chromatography on silica gel using a mixture of ether 1 volume and petroleum b.p. 60 800 5 volumes as eluent, to give a solid 0.5g identified as the required ester, with a melting point of 90.5 to 9l.50C. b Preparation of compound 38 The ester from b was hydrolysed to the corresponding carboxylic acid by treatment with hydrobromic acid in aqueous acetic acid as described in paragraph c of Example 18. The carboxylic acid was then con verted to the acid chloride and reacted with methanesulphonamide in the presence of caesium fluoride in butyl acetate, as described in paragraph c of Example 4. EXAMPLE 14 This Example illustrates the preparation of N methanesulphonyl 5 2, 4 bis trifluoromethylphenoxy 2 nitrobenzamide. Compound 39 of Table I . a Preparation of 5 2,4 his trifluoromethylphenoxy benzoic acid 2,4 Bis trifluoromethylbromobenzene 5.86g prepared by treatment of 2,4 di carboxybromobenzene with hydrogen fluoride and sulphur tetrafluoride , 3 hydroxybenzoic acid 2.76g and anhydrous potassium carbonate 5.52g were heated in dimethylsulphoxide 5 ml to 125 130 for 14 hours. The mixture was cooled and poured into ice and water 500 ml . The mixture was acidified HC1 and extracted with ether 300 ml . The extract was washed with water 2 x 300 ml , dried MgS04 , and evaporated to give a solid. Further solid was obtained by reextraction of the aqueous fractions with ether 250 ml .The solids were combined, taken up in hot toluene 60 ml and diluted with petroleum b.p. 60 80 to precipitate 3 hydrcxybenzoic acid. The mixture was filtered and the filtrate evaporated to give a solid. This was washed with petroleum b.p. 30 40 . The washings were evaporated to give more solid. The solids were combined and re crystallised from petroleum b.p. 80l000 to give the required carboxylic acid 0.5 g having a melting point of 133 1340. b Preparation cf 5 2,4 bis trifluoromethylphenoxy 2 nitrobenzoic acid. The carboxylic acid 1.05 g prepared as described in a was added to 1,2 dichloroethane 5 ml and concentrated sulphuric acid 5 ml at 0 . The mixture was stirred and kept at 0 5 while potassium nitrate C.33 g was added in portions over a period of 15 minutes. The mixture was stirred at 0 5 for a further 15 minutes, and poured on to ice and water 50 ml . The mixture was extracted with ether 2 150 ml and the ether extract washed with water 50 ml , dried MgS04 , and evaporated to give the nitro acid 1.1 g. c Preparation of compound 39 The product from b 1.0 g was heated under reflux in thionyl chloride 20 ml for 2 hours. The cooled solution was evaporated under reduced pressure to give an oil. This was taken up in dry butyl acetate 15 ml and treated with methanesulphonamide 0.48g and dried caesium fluoride 1.0 g . The mixture was stirred and heated under reflux for 3 hours. The cooled mixture was diluted with water and acidified with dilute hydrochloric acid. The mixture was extracted with ethyl acetate 2 x 30 ml . The extract was washed with water 2 x 50 ml and dried MgS04 . Removal of the ethyl acetate gave 2 solid which was triturated with ether 30 ml . The ether solution so obtained was diluted with petroleum b.p. 3O40O . The solid which separated 0.5 g was identified as compound no. 39, with a melting point of 170 171 after re crystallisation from isopropanol. EXAMPLE 15 This Example illustrates the preparation of Mmethane sulphonyl 5 2,6 dichloro 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy 2 nitrobenzamide compound 42 of Table I . a Preparation of 3,5 dichloro 4 fluorobenzotrifluoride 2,6 Dichloro 4 trifluoromethylaniline 6.5 g in concentrated hydrochloric acid 18 ml was cooled to 00C. Sodium nitrite 1.95 g dissolved in a little water was added slowly while the solution was stirred and kept below 5 C. When addition was complete the solution was stirred for 1 hour, filtered, and added to a solution of sodium fluoroborate 6 g in water 10 ml . The precipitate was washed with a little cold water and with ether, and dried. The solid was heated with the flame of a Bunsen burner until decomposition took place the product distilled from the reaction flask and was collected, taken up in ether, and washed with water. The ether solution was dried and evaporated to give an oil, which was distilled under reduced pressure to give the benzotrifluoride derivative 1.5 g . b Preparation of 3 2,6 dichloro 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy benzoic acid. The product from a 1.5 g was heated with 3hydroxybenzoic acid 0.95 g and anhydrous potassium carbonate 0.95 g in dimethyl sulphoxide 20 ml at 100 C for 2 hours. The mixture was diluted with water and the resulting precipitate 1.5 g collected, dried, and identified as the substituted benzoic acid, having a melting point of 204 C melte and resolidifies at 150 C . c Preparation of 5 2,6 dichloro 4 trifluoromethyl phenoxy 2 nitrobenzoic acid. The product from b 1.4 g in 1,2 dichloroethane 10 ml was cooled to 0 C and mixed with concentrated sulphuric acid 5 ml . The mixture was stirred while potassium nitrate 0.4g was added in portions over a period of 30 minutes. The mixture was then stirred at room temperature for 30 minutes, and then agitated with chloroform and water. The chloroform layer was washed with water, dried MgSO4 , and evaporated to give a yellow oil 1.05 g which solidified and was identified as the required substituted benzoic acid. After recrystallisation from a mixture of chloroform and hexane, the compound had a melting point of 162 163 . d Preparation of N methanesulphonyl 5 2,6 dichloro 4trifluoromethylphenoxy 2 nitro benzamide Compound 42 The acid prepared according to c above was converted to its acid chloride by treatment with thionyl chloride as described in Example 20. The acid chloride 0.73 g so obtained was taken up in pyridine 10 ml and cooled to OOC. Methanesulphonamide 0.3 g was added and the solution stirred at 0 0C for 1 hour and room temperature for 2 hours. The excess of pyridine was removed under reduced pressure and the residue treated with dilute hydrochloric acid. The buff solid so obtained was purified by thinlayer chromatography on silica gel using ethyl acetate containing 5 of methanol as the eluent. The sulphonamide compound 42 had a melting point of 242 2430C. The 2,6 dichloro 4 trifluoromethylaniline required for stage a of the above process was prepared as follows Chlorine was passed into a solution of p trifluoro methylaniline 3.46 kg in glacial acetic acid 7 litres .After 90 minutes the temperature had reached 60 and a solid was separating. Chlorination was continued for 13.5 hours, keeping the temperature between 60 and 900 with occasional warming. The suspension was filtered and the residue washed with 1 litre of cold acetic acid. The residue was then twice stirred with water 8 litres and sucked dry on the filter to give the required dichloro compound. EXAMPLE 16 This Example illustrates the preparation of Nmethanesulphonyl 5 2 chloro 5 fluoro 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy 2 nitrobenzamide. Compound no. 44 of Table I . a Preparation of 4 methoxy 3 nitro benzotrifluoride 4 chloro 3 nitrobenzotrifluorlde 112.8 g in methanol 200 ml was mixed with a solution of sodium 11.6 g in methanol 800 ml and stirred for 2 hours.The mixture was kept overnight and then stirred and heated under reflux for 3 hours. The solution was left overnight, filtered, and the solvent removed. The remaining oil was taken up in ether 50C mi and washed with water. The ether solution was dried and evaporated to give 4methoxy 3 nitrobenzotrifluoride 106 g . b Preparation of 3 amino 4 methoxy benzotrifluoride 4 Methoxy 3 nitrobenzotrifluoride 95 g in isopropanol 1.0 litre and water 250 ml was mixed with concentrated hydrochloric acid 15 ml . Iron powder 180 g was added and the mixture was heated and stirred under reflux. After 90 minutes the mixture was cooled to 50 C and filtered. The residue was washed with isopropanol and the combined filtrates evaporated. The residue was dissolved in toluene and the solution dried MgSO4 and evaporated. The residue was triturated with light petroleum b.p. 30 40 to give the 3 amino 4methoxybenzotrifluoride as a colourless solid 68 g . c Preparation of 3 fluoro 4 methoxybenzotrifluoride The product from b 57.3 g was added to concentrated hydrochloric acid 220 ml . The mixture was stirred vigorously and kept at 0 50C while a solution of sodium nitrite 24 g in water 40 ml was added dropwise. The solution was stirred for a further 30 minutes, filtered at 0 5 C, and poured into solution of sodium fluoroborate 80 g in water 100 ml with stirring. The mixture was cooled in ice salt and filtered. The residue was washed with dilute sodium fluoroborate, a little cold ethanol, and ether, to give the diazonium fluoroborate 70 g . This material 10 g was heated gently with the flame of a Bunsen burner until decomposition occurred. The product distilled from the reaction flask and was collected. The combined product from seven such decompositions about 35 g was distilled to give 3 fluoro 4 methoxybenzotrifluoride 32 g with a boiling point of 87 900 30 Torr. d Preparation of 3 fluoro 4 hydroxybenzotrlfluoride The product from c 5 g was fused with pyridine hydrochloride 25 g at 15 2000C for 210 minutes. The cooled reaction mixture was agitated with ether 150 ml and water 100 ml . The mixture was acidified HC1 and the ether layer separated and washed successively with water, sodium bicarbonate solution, and water, and then dried and evaporated to leave a colourless oil 4.2g identified as 3 fluoro 4 hydroxybenzo trifluoride. e Preparation of 3 fluoro 4 hydroxy 5 nitro benzotrifluoride The product from c 4.1 g in 1,2 dichloro ethane 25 ml was chilled to 10 C and concentrated sulphuric acid 25 ml added. The mixture was stirred and kept at 5 to 10 C while potassium nitrate 2.3 g was added in portions over a period of 30 minutes. The mixture was stirred for a further 30 minutes at below 0 C and then poured on to ice 150 ml . The mixture was extracted with chloroform 150 ml and the extracts washed with water 100 m.1 , dried MgSO and evaporated to give 3 fluoro 4 hydroxy 5 nitrobenzotrifluoride as a pale yellow liquid 4.1 g . f Preparation of 3 amlno 5 fluoro 4 hydroxy benzo trifluoride The product from e 4.1 g in water 50 ml was stirred vigorously while sodium dithionite hydrate iO g was added in portions. The mixture was stirred for 30 minutes and then ethanol 25 ml and further sodium dithionite 5 g were added. The mixture was stirred for another 15 minutes and then diluted to 400 ml, acidified HC1 and extracted with dichloromethane 4 x 200 ml .The dichloromethane extract was dried MgS04 and evaporated to give a yellow oil which crystallised on cooling.This was identified as 3 amino 5 fluoro 4 hydroxybenzotrifluoride 2.9 g . g Preparation of 3 f luoro 2 3 methoxycarbonyl 4 nitropher.oxy 4 trifluoromethyl aniline. The product prepared as described in f 8.9 g was heated and stirred under reflux in methyl ethyl ketone with anhydrous potassium carbonate 10.0 g and 3 methoxycarbonyl 4 nitro fluoro benzene 10.0 g for 4.5 hours.The mixture was filtered and the filtrate evaporated.The remaining brown solid was recrystallised from ethanol 75 ml to give a pale yellow solid 12.5 g having a melting point of 138 139 , identified as the required aniline derivative. h Preparation of 3 fluoro 2 3 methoxycarbonyl 4 nitrophenoxy 4 trifluoromethylbenzenediazonium fluoroborate. The product from g 12 g in trifluoroacetic acid 30 ml was diluted with 40 aqueous fluoroboric acid 30 ml . The solution was cooled to OOC and treated dropwise with stirring with a solution of sodium nitrite 2.45 g in water 6 ml over a period of 75 minutes, keeping the solution at about 3 C during the addition.The reaction mixture was the cooled to 0 C and kept at 0 5 C for 1 hour. Further fluoroboric acid 20 ml was added and the mixture kept at 0 C for another 30 minutes.The mixture was then filtered and the solid washed with a little cold ethanol, and then with ether, giving the required diazonium fluoroborate 14.4 g . i Preparation of methyl 5 2 chloro 6 flucro 4 tri fluoromethylphenoxy 2 nitrobenzoate. The product from h 7.0 g was finely powdered and added in portions over a period of 15 minutes to a solution of cuprous chloride anhydrous 4.06 g in dry dimethyl sulphoxide 60 ml . The mixture was stirred for a further 30 minutes, poured into a mixture of water and ice 300 mi and extracted with ether 3 x 100 m The ether extract was washed with water 2 x 100 ml , dried MgSO4 and evaporated to give an oil, which solidified. This material was purified by thin layer chromatography on silica gel using a mixture of ether 1 volume and petroleum b.p. 60 80 C 3 volumes as the eluent. The product so obtained 2.9 g had a melting point of 7980 C and was identified as the required methyl 5 2chloro 6 fluoro 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy 2 nitro benzoate. j Preparation of N methanesulphonyl 5 2 chloro 6 fluoro 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy 2 nitrobenzamide compound no. 44 . The ester prepared in i was hydrolysed to the corresponding carboxylic acid by treatment with hydrogen bromide in acetic acid. The carboxylic acid so prepared 2 5 was heated under reflux in thionyl chloride was removed under reduced pressure and the residue taken up in butyl acetate 30 ml and stirred and heated under reflux with dry caesium fluoride 3.0 g and methanesulphonamide 1 g for 2 hours. The solution was cooled, diluted with water 250 ml , and acidified HC1 . The mixture was extracted with ethyl acetate 300 ml . The extract was washed with water, dried MgS04 and evaporated to give an oil. Toluene was added and evaporated under reduced pressure. The remaining solid was recrystallised from isopropanol 10 ml .The recrystallised solid was washed with a little isopropanol and then light petroleum b.p. 30 40 to give the required benzamide derivative compound 44 as colorless crystals 1.6 g with a melting point of 171 172 . EXAMPLE 17 This Example illustrates the preparation of Nmethanesulphonyl 5 2, 6 difluoro 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy 2 nitrobenzamide compound 48 of Table I . a Preparation of methyl 5 2,6 difluoro 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy 2 nitro benzoate. The diazonium fluoroborate prepared as described in paragraph h of Example 16 7.0 g was suspended in carbon tetrachloride 400 ml . Aqueous fluoroboric acid 40 200 ml was added and the mixture was stirred while being irradiated by an internally placed medium pressure mercury vapour lamp for 6 hours. Further amounts of carbon tetrachloride 100 ml and fluoroboric acid 100 ml were then added and the mixture flushed continuously with a stream of nitrogen to aid mixing. After 4 hours, the solid was filtered off. The solid and the aqueous fluoroboric acid were returned to the reaction flask and the carbon tetrachloride washed with water 2 x 500 ml , dried, and evaporated to give a solid 2.1 g .Fresh carbon tetrachloride was added te the reaction flask and stirring and irradiation continued for another 8 hours. The carbon tetrachloride layer was separated, washed with water, and dried. Evaporation of the carbon tetrachloride gave a solid 2.3 g which was combined with the solid obtained earlier, and purified by thin layer chromatography on silica gel, using a mixture of ether 1 volume and petroleum b.p. 60 80 C 3 volumes as the eluent. The major component was extracted with ether ca. 1 litre . Evaporation of the ether gave a solid 2.55 g which was found to contain 85 of the required methyl 5 2, 6 difluoro 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy 2 nitrobenzoate upon examination by nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy. b Preparation of 5 2, 6 difluoro 4 trifluoromethyl phenoxy 2 nitrobenzoic acid. The product from paragraph a 2.4g in acetic acid 60 ml was mixed with hydrobromic acid 10 35 ml and stirred and heated under reflux for 6 hours. The solution was evaporated under reduced pressure and the residue re evaporated wit toluene 2 x 100 ml to remove traces of water and acetic acid. The oil so obtained was taken up in a little ether and filtered. The filtrate was diluted with petroleum b.p. 40 600C 200 ml and again filtered. A solid 1.49 g slowly crystallised from the filtrate. The solid was recrystallised from toluene. Thin layer chromatograpny showed that the recrystallised solid contained two components.This solid, and a further solid obtained by evaporating the toluene used for recrystallising It, were separately purified by thin layer chromatography on silica gel using a mixture of ethyl acetate, acetic acid, and water 250 5 1 as the solvent. The major component was extracted from the thin layer plates with ethanol. The solid so obtained was treated with 2 molar hydrochloric acid and extracted with ethyl acetate. The extract was dried and evaporated to give a solid. This was reevaporated with toluene to give a solid 1.2g identified as 5 2,6 difluoro 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy 2 nitrobenzoic acid, having a melting point of 149 150 C. c Preparation of N methanesulphonyl 5 2,6 difluoro 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy 2 nitrobenzamide The carboxylic acid from b l.l4g was heated under reflux for 2 hours in thionyl chloride 20 ml .The excess of thionyl chloride was removed under reduced pressure. The treatment with thlonyl chloride was repeated and the excess again removed. The remaining solid was taken up in dry butyl acetate 15 ml and heated under reflux with caesium fluoride 2.1g and methanesulphonamide 0.6g for 75 minutes. The mixture was cooled, diluted with ethyl acetate 150 ml and water 75 ml , and acidified HC1 . The organic layer was separated, washed with water 100 ml , dried MgS04 , and evaporated. Toluene was added to the residue and evaporated under reduced pressure. The remaining solid was recrystallised from isopropanol to give a colourless solid 0.838 g having a melting point of 204 205 identified as the required compound 48. EXAMPLE 18 This Example illustrates the preparation of Nmethane sulphonyl 5 2 methyl 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy 2 nitrobenzamide compound 49 of Table 1 . a Preparation of 4 hydroxy 3 methylbenzotrifluoride 3 Methyl 4 nitrobenzoic acid was converted to 3methyl 4 nitrobenzotrifluoride by treatment with sulphur tetrafluoride and hydrogen fluoride. The 3 methyl 4nitrobenzotrifluoride so prepared was reduced to 4 amino3 methyl benzotrifluoride. This was diazotised in the usual way e.g. as in paragraph a of Example 15 and the diazonium salt isolated as its fluoroborate. The 2methyl 4 triflucromethylbenzenediazonium fluoroborate so prepared 6.Og in dilute 2.5M sulphuric acid 150 ml was heated to 800 over a period of 10 minutes. The solution was then cooled by adding ice, and extracted with dichloromethane 2 x 100 ml . The extract was dried MgS04 and evaporated to give the phenol as a brown liquid. b Preparation of methyl 5 2 methyl 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy 2 nitrobenzoate The phenol prepared in a 3.52g was stirred and heated under reflux with 3 methoxycarbonyl 4 nitrofluoro benzene 4.0g and anhydrous potassium carbonate 3.0g in dry methyl ethyl ketone 50 ml for 6.5 hours. The mixture was cooled, left overnight, and filtered. The filtrate was evaporated and the residue extracted with petroleum b.p. 40 600 15C ml and ether 10 ml . The extract was filtered and evaporated to give the required ester as a viscous oil 6.6g . c Preparation of 5 2 methyl 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy 2 nitrobenzoic acid The product from b 6.6g in acetic acid 100 ml was mixed with 48 aqueous hydrobromic acid 65 ml . The mixture was stirred and heated under reflux for 7 hours.The solution was cooled and left for 48 hours. The solvents were removed and the residue mixed with toluene 200 ml . The toluene was evaporated off and the remaining solid dissolved in a little ether and the solution filtered.The ether solution was diluted with petroleum b.p. 4060 200 ml , quickly filtered, and allowed to stand. The colourless solid which separated 3.4g was recrystallised from a mixture of ether and petroleum b.p. 40 E00 . The product was identified as the required carboxylic acid, with a melting point of 156 157 . d Preparation of compound 49. The acid from c 1.15g was converted to the acid chloride and reacted with methanesulphonamide in butyl acetate in the presence of caesium fluoride as described for compound 39 in paragraph c of Example 14. The product was recrystallised from isopropanol and had a melting point of 232 233 . EXAMPLE 19 This Example illustrates the preparation of N meth ane sulphonyl 5 2 chloro 6 cyano 4 trifluoromethyl phenoxy 2 nitrobenzamide compound 52 of Table I . a Preparation of 3 carboxy 4 chloro S nitrobenzotri fluoride. Concentrated nitric acid 15.5 ml was added cautiously in portions to 4 chloro 3 cyanobenzotrifluorlde 50 S in concentrated sulphuric acid 150 mlj. The solution was warmed to 75CC when the reaction became exothermic the solution was then heated to 950 for 1.5 hours, cooled, and poured into ice. The solid was collected, dried and recrystallised from chloroform to give the carboxylic acid with a melting point of 175178 . b Preparation of 3 carbamoyl 4 chloro 5 nitro benzo trifluoride. The product from a 60 g was heated under reflux in excess of thionyl chloride for 2.5 hours. The excess of thionyl chloride was removed under reduced pressure and the remaining oil taken up in toluene 100 ml and slowly added with stirring to a concentrated solution of ammonia 200 ml d 0.88 with cooling to keep the temperature below 200. The mixture was extracted with ethyl acetate and the extract washed with water, dried MgSO4 and evaporated to give a light yellow solid. This was triturated with petroleum b.p. 30 400 and collected 31 g . A portion recrystallised from chloroform had a melting point of 142 lt3 . c Preparation of 4 chloro s cyano 5 nitro benzotri fluoride The amide prepared in b 30 g was heated under reflux in phosphorus oxychloride 100 ml for 3 hours and the solution then cooled and poured on to ice. The solid which separated was collected and identified as the required cyano compound. d Preparation of 3 amino 4 chloro 5 cyano benzotrifluoride. The cyano compound prepared in c 4 g was dissolved in isopropanol 30 ml , and water 15 ml and concentrated hydrochloric acid 1 drop added. The solution was stirred and heated to 650 with iron dust 0.96 g for 2 hours. The mixture was cooled and filtered. The filtrate was evaporated to give a solid .87 g with a melting point of 1020, identified as the required amino compound. e Preparation of 3 cyano 4,5 dichlorobenzotrifluoride The amino compound prepared in d 2.8 g was dissolved in concentrated hydrochloric acid 15 ml and cooled to 00. A solution of sodium nitrite 0.87 g in the minimum of water was added in portions, keeping the temperature below 4 . The solution was then stirred at 0 for 15 minutes. Cuprous chloride 3g, finely powdered was then added in portions and the solution warmed to 40 C over a period of 1 hour. The mixture was then cooled diluted with water, and extracted with ether. The ether extract was washed twice with dilute hydrochloric acid, dried MgS04 , and evaporated to give a yellow oil.This was taken up in a mixture of ether 1 volume and hexane 4 volumes and the solution filtered through chromatography grade silica gel. The filtrate was evaporated to give an oil 2.9 g identified as the required dichloro compound. f Preparation of 5 2 chloro 6 cyano 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy benzoic acid. The product from ei 2.3 g was heated with 3hydroxybenzoic acid 1.32y and anhydrous potassium carbonate 6 g in dimethyl sulphoxide to 1500 for 5.5 hours. The mixture was poured into water and the solution extracted with ether. The aqueous layer was then acidified HC1 and extracted with ether. This extract was dried MgS04 and evaporated to give a buff solid 1.52 g identified as the required substituted benzoic acid. g Preparation of 5 2 chloro 6 cyano 4 trifluoromethyl phenoxy 2 nitrobenzoic acid. The carboxylic acid prepared according to paragraph f 2.0 g in 1,2 dichloroethane 20 ml was slowly added with stirring to concentrated sulphuric acid 20 ml at 00. Potassium nitrate 0.62 g was added in small portions over a period of 20 minutes with cooling. The mixture was then stirred for another 30 minutes at 100C and poured into ice. The mixture was extracted with chloroform, and the extract washed with water, dried MgS04 , and evaporated to give an oil. Trituration with a mixture of ether and hexane gave a solid. This was purified by precipitation from ether solution by addition of hexane, and identified as the required nitro acid. h Preparation of compound 52. The acid prepared according to paragraph g 1.2g was converted to its acid chloride and reacted with methanesulphonamide in the presence of pyridine as described for compound 42 see paragraph d of Example 15 . The product 0.42 g had a melting point of 204205 . EXAMPLE 20 This Example illustrates the preparation of N methanesulphonyl 5 2 chloro 6 fluoro 4 trifluoromethyl phenoxy 2 nitrobenzamide compound 54 of Table I . 2 Chloro 5 hydroxybenzoic acid 1.5 g , 3 chloro4,5 difluorobenzotrifluoride 1.88 g and potassium carbonate 5g were heated with stirring to 80 for 2.5 hours. The mixture was agitated with ethyl acetate and dilute hydrochloric acid. The ethyl acetate layer was separated, washed with water, dried MgS04 , and evaporated to give a clear oii. Trituration with petroleum b.p. 60 800 gave a solid 2.57 g having a melting point of 1340C, identified as 2 chloro 5 2 chloro 6 fluoro 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy benzoic acid. The benzoic acid derivative so prepared 1.09 g was heated under reflux in thionyl chloride 20 ml for 2.5 hours and the excess of thionyl chloride removed under reduced pressure. The remaining oil was taken up in dry pyridine 2 ml , cooled to OOC and methane sulphonamide 0.5 g added. The solution was allowed to warm to room temperature and was then stirred for another 2 hours.The mixture was agitated with ethyl acetate and dilute hydrochloric acid. The ethyl acetate layer was dried MgS04 and evaporated to give an oil which solidified on trituration with petroleum with petroleum b.p. 30 40 and ether. The solid was twice recrystallised from a mixture of ether and petroleum to give N methanesulphonyl 2 chloro 5 2 chloro 6 fluoro 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy benzamide 0.36 g with a melting point of 172 173 C.The 3 chloro 4,5 difluorobenzotrifluoride used in the above process was prepared as follows 2,6 Dichloro4 trifluoromethylaniline 3.3 kg, prepared as in Example 15 in concentrated hydrochloric acid 25 litres was stirred for 1 hour and then cooled to 60C. A solution of sodium nitrite 1.41 kg in water 3 litres was added over a period of 4 hours keeping the temperature between 0 and 12 . The mixture was then stirred between 5 and Oo until all solid had dissolved 3.5 hours . The mixture was then added in 2 litre portions over a period of 35 minutes to a solution of cuprous chloride 1.5 kg in concentrated hydrochloric acid with stirring. The dark solution was left to stand for 30 minutes, filtered, and extracted with dichloromethane 1 x 15 litres, then 2 x 10 litres . The extracts were washed with water 2 x 25 litres dried MgS04 and evaporated under reduced pressure to give 3,4,5 trichlorobenzotrifluoride 2.2 kg with a boiling range of 981000 40 Torr. This trichloro compound 750 g was added to a solution cf potassium fluoride 920 g in sulpholane 3.75 litres which had previously been heated until liquid was distilling from the mixture at a still head temperature of 2700, so as to dry the reactants. The flask was then fitted with a Vigreaux column 24 long 61cm and a reflux divider. The mixture was heated under reflux for 5 hours, and the reflux divider then adjusted to collect liquid boiling at 120 or less. Heating was continued for 25 hours and 530 grams of distillate was collected. This was combined with a further quantity 520 g of liquid obtained from a similar preparation.A portion 745 g was distilled at atmospheric pressure after washing with water and drying MgS04 . The first runnings of the distillate b.p. 98 1060 were pure 3,4,5trifluorobenzotrifluoride 15 g . The next fraction b.p. 106 1300 contained a mixture of the trifluoro compound with some 3 chloro 4,5 difluorobenzotrifluoride 55 g . Finally, essentially pure 3 chloro 4,5 difluorobenzotrifluoride b.p. 130 136 was collected 580 g . EXAMPLE 21 This Example illustrates the preparation of N methanesulphonyl 5 2, 6 dichloro 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy 2 chloro benzamide compound 56 of Table I . 3,5 Dichloro 4 fluorobenzotrifluoride 2.0g , potassium carbonate 6.0 g and 2 chloro 5 hydroxybenzoic acid 1.5 g were heated and stirred in dry dimethylsulphoxide 25 ml at 80 C for 2.5 hours. The mixture was cooled and agitated with ethyl acetate and dilute hydrochloric acid. The ethyl acetate layer was washed with water, dried MgS04 , and evaporated under reduced pressure. The brown oil which remained was triturated with petroleum b.p. 60 800 to give a white solid 2.3g identified as 2 chloro 5 2, 6 dichloro 4 trifluoromethyl phenoxy benzoic acid, with a melting point of 158 159 0C. The benzoic acid derivative so prepared 1.0 g was heated under reflux in thionyl chloride 15 ml for 3 hours and the excess of thionyl chloride then removed under reduced pressure. The remaining oil was taken up in dry pyridine, the solution cooled to OoC and methane sulphonamide 0.8 g added. The mixture was stirred at OOC for 1 hour, allowed to warm to room temperature, and stirred for another 2 hours. The mixture was then agitated with ether and dilute hydrochloric acid. The ether layer was separated, dried MgS04 and evaporated to give an oil. This was triturated with a mixture of hexane and ether to give a white solid. This was taken up in ether and the solution washed three times with water, dried MgSO4 and evaporated to give an oil.This was triturated with hexane to give a solid. The solid was recrystallised from ether hexane to give a white solid with a melting point of 195 196 C melts and re solidifies at 162 C identified as compound 56. EXAMPLE 22 This Example illustrates an aqueous solution according to the invention.Compound no 1, as sodium salt 100 gBentazon, sodium salt 100 gWater to 1 litreThe other ingredients are dissolved in the water. EXAMPLE 23 This Example illustrates a dispersible powder formulation according t the invention.Compound no 7 100 gFluometuron 400 g Vanisperse CB dispersant 50 g serosol OT B wetter 20 gSpestone filler to 1 kgThe above ingredients are ground together to produce a powdered mixture. EXAMPLE 24 This Example illustrates an aqueous solution according to the invention.Compound no 1, sodium salt 100 gAlloxydim sodium 150 gWater to 1 litreThe other ingredients are dissolved in the water. EXAMPLE 25 This Example illustrates an emulsifiable concentrate according to the invention.Compound no 1 50 gButyl ester of 2 4 5 trifluoromethyl pyridyl 2 oxyl phenoxy propionic acid 100 g Lubrol N 13 emulsifier 50 g Arylan CA 50 gAcetophenone to 1 litreThe above ingredients are blended in a mixer. Below is given the constitution of the materials represented in the above Examples by Trade Marks. Lubr.ol N 13 nonyl phenol condensed with ethylene oxide Arylan CA solution of calcium dodecyl benzene sulphonate in butanol Aromasol H aromatic hydrocarbon Synperonic nonyl phenol condensed with propylene NPE 1800 oxide and ethylene oxideVanisperse CB sodium lignosulphonate Aerosol OT B sodium dioctylsulphosuccinate plus sodium benzoate Speseone china clay EXAMPLE 26 This Example illustrates the herbicidal activity of mixtures according to the invention. Compound no 1 ofTable I was mixed with various known herbicides and dispersed in water to provide spray compositions. These were then sprayed on to pot plants at the 2 to 5 leaf growth stage in the greenhouse.The rates were generally lower than those which would be applied in the field, since the young greenhouse plants are generally more tender and susceptible to herbicides than plants growing out of doors. The spray volume used was equivalent to 200 litres per hectare. The known herbicides were used in the form of their commercially available formulations. A surface active agent Agral 90, comprising a solution of a condensation product of r.onylphenol with from 7 8 molar proportions of ethylene oxide in alcohol was added to the spray compositions so that they contained 0.1 of Agral 90 in the final spray volume. The damage to the plants was assessed 18 to 21 days after treatment, on a scale of O to 9 where 0 is O to 10t damage and 9 is 90 to 100 . The known herbicides were as follows A Alloxydim sodium B Dichlofop methyl methyl ester of 2 42,4 dichlorophenoxy phenoxy propionic acid C Ethyl ester of 4 methyl 4 4 trifluoro nethyl phenoxybut 2 enoic acid D Methyl ester of 2 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy phenoxy propionic acid E Bentazon The results of the tests are given in Table II below. TABLE II EMI57.1 Known SEP Rate SEP of SEP Test SEP Plants SEP and SEP Amount SEP of SEP Compound SEP 1 SEP Applied tb Herbicide SEP Application SEP No SEP Compound SEP 1 SEP 0.2kg SEP Compound SEP 1 SEP 0.4kg SEP Compound SEP 1 tb SEP kg ha SEP Sy SEP Ip SEP Eh SEP Ec SEP Dg SEP Sy SEP Ip SEP Eh SEP Ec SEP Dg SEP Sy SEP Ip SEP Eh SEP Ec SEP Dg tb A SEP 0 SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP 1 SEP 5 SEP 8 SEP 0 SEP 2 SEP 1 SEP 7 SEP 8 SEP 1 SEP 4 tb SEP 0.3 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 2 SEP 8 SEP 6 SEP 2 SEP 4 SEP 9 SEP 7 SEP 6 SEP 2 SEP 7 SEP 9 SEP 9 SEP 7 tb SEP 0.6 SEP 0 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 8 SEP 8 SEP 2 SEP 5 SEP 9 SEP 9 SEP 8 SEP 2 SEP 8 SEP 9 SEP 9 SEP 9 tb B SEP 0 SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP 1 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 0 SEP 2 SEP 1 SEP 4 SEP 5 SEP 0 SEP 6 tb SEP 0.375 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 4 SEP 9 SEP 1 SEP 2 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 9 SEP 1 SEP 2 SEP 4 SEP 6 SEP 7 SEP 6 tb SEP 0.75 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 4 SEP 9 SEP 2 SEP 2 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 9 SEP 3 SEP 3 SEP 6 SEP 8 SEP 9 SEP 7 tb C SEP 0 SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP 1 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 1 SEP 4 SEP 2 SEP 7 SEP 4 SEP 3 SEP 7 tb SEP 0.25 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 3 SEP 9 SEP 9 SEP 3 SEP 7 SEP 6 SEP 9 SEP 9 SEP 2 SEP 7 SEP 6 SEP 9 SEP 9 tb SEP 0.5 SEP 0 SEP 1 SEP 3 SEP 9 SEP 9 SEP 2 SEP 6 SEP 5 SEP 9 SEP 9 SEP 3 SEP 8 SEP 6 SEP 9 SEP 9 tb D SEP 0 SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP 1 SEP 5 SEP 3 SEP 1 SEP 4 SEP 1 SEP 7 SEP 5 SEP 3 SEP 6 tb SEP 0.5 SEP 1 SEP 2 SEP 2 SEP 9 SEP 9 SEP 3 SEP 8 SEP 6 SEP 9 SEP 9 SEP 3 SEP 9 SEP 7 SEP 9 SEP 9 tb SEP 1.0 SEP 2 SEP 2 SEP 2 SEP 9 SEP 9 SEP 3 SEP 7 SEP 7 SEP 9 SEP 9 SEP 3 SEP 8 SEP 8 SEP 9 SEP 9 tb E SEP 0 SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP 1 SEP 7 SEP 6 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 8 SEP 7 SEP 6 SEP 6 tb SEP 0.2 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 1 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 2 SEP 7 SEP 6 SEP 2 SEP 2 SEP 2 SEP 9 SEP 7 SEP 7 SEP 4 tb SEP 0.4 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 2 SEP 8 SEP 6 SEP 3 SEP 2 SEP 2 SEP 8 SEP 7 SEP 7 SEP 6 tb The names of the test plants were as follows Sy Soyabean, variety Amsoy Ip Ipomoea purpurea Eh EuPhorbia heterophylla Ec Echinochloa crus galli Dg Digitaria sanguinalis A further test was carried out with mixtures of compound no 1 with 2 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy phenoxypropionic acid common name trifop methyl and with the butyl ester of 2 4 5 trifluoromethylpyridyl 2 oxy phenoxy propionic acid. These compounds are coded F and G respectively inTable III below. Compound G was formulated as an emul sifiable concentrate having the following compDsition Component Amount arams per litre Compound G 250 Arylan CA 25 Geopon SF 365 25 Aromasol H to 1 litreArylan SA is a Trade Mark for a composition comprising calcium dodecylbenzenesulphonate. Geopon SF 365 is aTrade Mark for a composition comprising a condensate of castor oil with 40 molar proportions of ethylene oxide.Aromasol H is a Trade Mark for a solvent comprising z mixture of trimethylbenzenes. The test was carried cut as described above, but with a slightly different range of test plants. The two additional species were Abutilon theothrasti Ab and Eleusine indica Ei . The results are given in Table III each figure is the average for three replicates, except the figures for Eleusine india which are for two replicates. TABLE III EMI59.1 Known SEP Rate SEP of SEP Test SEP Plants SEP and SEP Amount SEP of SEP Compound SEP 1 SEP Applied tb Herbicide SEP Application SEP No SEP Compound SEP 1 SEP 0.2kg SEP Compound SEP 1 SEP 0.4kg SEP Compound SEP 1 tb SEP kg ha SEP Sy SEP Ip SEP Ab SEP Ec SEP Dg SEP Ei SEP Sy SEP Ip SEP Ab SEP Ec SEP Dg SEP Ei SEP Sy SEP Ip SEP Eh SEP Ec SEP Dg SEP Ei tb F SEP 0 SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP 0.7 SEP 5.0 SEP 3.7 SEP 3.3 SEP 1.0 SEP 3.7 SEP 1.0 SEP 7.0 SEP 6.3 SEP 4.7 SEP 3.0 SEP 6.0 tb SEP 0.5 SEP 1.0 SEP 1.7 SEP 0 SEP 2.3 SEP 9 SEP 9 SEP 2.7 SEP 7.7 SEP 5.3 SEP 5.7 SEP 9 SEP 9 SEP 3.3 SEP 8.7 SEP 9 SEP 6.7 SEP 9 SEP 9 tb SEP 1.0 SEP 2.0 SEP 2.0 SEP 0 SEP 2.0 SEP 9 SEP 9 SEP 3.3 SEP 7.0 SEP 4.3 SEP 6.7 SEP 9 SEP 9 SEP 3.3 SEP 8.0 SEP 8.0 SEP 7.7 SEP 9 SEP 9 tb SEP 2.0 SEP 2.0 SEP 2.0 SEP 1.3 SEP 3.0 SEP 9 SEP 9 SEP 3.0 SEP 8.7 SEP 7.7 SEP 7.0 SEP 9 SEP 9 SEP 3.7 SEP 8.7 SEP 9 SEP 7.0 SEP 9 SEP 9 tb G SEP 0 SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP 1.7 SEP 6.7 SEP 6.3 SEP 4.0 SEP 8.0 SEP 6.0 SEP 1.3 SEP 8.3 SEP 8.3 SEP 8.7 SEP 8.7 SEP 7.0 tb SEP 0.5 SEP 0 SEP 0.3 SEP 0.3 SEP 9 SEP 9 SEP 9 SEP 2.3 SEP 5.0 SEP 7.0 SEP 9 SEP 9 SEP 9 SEP 2.3 SEP 7.7 SEP 9 SEP 9 SEP 9 SEP 9 tb SEP 1.0 SEP 0.7 SEP 1.3 SEP 1.0 SEP 9 SEP 9 SEP 9 SEP 2.3 SEP 8.0 SEP 8.3 SEP 9 SEP 9 SEP 9 SEP 3.3 SEP 8.0 SEP 9 SEP 9 SEP 9 SEP 9 tb