# Process for the preparation of pyridazine derivatives.

## Abstract
A 1 aryl 1, 4 dihydro 4 oxopyridazine carboxamide of the formula The amides of Formula I find use as plant growth regulators.

## Claims
Claims 1. A process for the preparation of a l aryl l, 4 dihydro 4 oopyridazine carboxamide of the formula EMI9.1 which comprises reacting, in a liquid medium, ammonia or an amine of the formula R NH2 with a hydrazone of the formula EMI9.2 where, in the above formulae, R1is hydrogen, C1 C6 alkyl, C1 C4 alkoxy, Cl C4 alkyl, C3 C8 cycloalkyl, C3 C8 cycloalkyl C1 C4 alkyl, halo C1 C6 alkyl, C1 C4 alkoxycarbonyl Cl C4 alkyl, bcnzyl or benzyl the ring of which is substituted with up to two of the same or different substituents selected from chloro, bromo, methyl, ethyl, methoxy, cyano, nitro and tri fluoromethyl R2 and R3 are hydrogen or C1 C4 alkyl X is selected from halo, trihialomethyl, nitro, C1 C4 alkyl, C1 C4 alkoxy, C1 C4 alkylthio, Cl C4 alkylsulfinyl, Cl C4 alkylsulfonyl, cyano and carboxy, the X substituents being the same or different when n is 1 and n is O or an integer from 1 3. 2. A process as claimed in Claim 1, wherein there is used at least one mole of the R NH2 reactant per mole of hydrazone and the reaction is carried out in solution at a temperature from 250C to 150 0C. 3. A process as claimed in Claim 2, wherein the reaction is carried out at a temperature from 400C to 800C. 4. A process as claimed in Claim 2 or 3, wherein the solvent medium contains excess R1NH2 reactant as a solvent. 5. A process as claimed in any one of Claims 2 4, wherein R1 is hydrogen, methyl, ethyl, propyl, butyl, hexyl, methoxycarbonylmethyl, cyclohexyl or benzyl,R2 and R3 are hydrogen, methyl or ethyl, and X is fluoro, chloro, bromo, iodo, trifluoromethyl, nitro, methyl, methoxy, methylthio, methylsulfinyl or methylsulfonyl. 6. A process as claimed in Claim 5, wherein R is hydrogen, methyl, ethyl, propyl or butyl. R2 and R3 are hydrogen or methyl and X is chloro, bromo or iodo. 7. A process according to any one of Claims 3 6 which comprises the additional step of cooling the resultant reaction mixture, adding it to water and extracting the desired product with a solvent. 8. A process as claimed in any one of Claims 1 7 as applied to the preparation of l 4 chlorophenyl l, 4 dihydro 4 oxypyridazine 3 carboxamide, N hexyl l 4 chlorophenyl l, 4 dihydro 4 oxopyridazine 3carboxamide, N methoxycarbonylmethyl l 4 chlorophenyl l,4 dihydro 4 oxo 6 methylpyridazine 3 carboxamide or l phenyl 1,4 dihydro 4 oxopyridazine 3 carboxamide. 9. A process as claimed in any one of Claims 1 7, wherein the hydrazone reactant is. 3 4 chlorophenylhydrazone 4 oxo 6 methyl 2 pyrone.

## Description
PROCESS FOR THE PREPARATION OF PYRIDAZINE DERIVATIVES This invention concerns an improved process for the preparation of pyridazine derivatives, namely l aryl 1,4 dihydro 4 oxopyridazine 3 carboxamides. The preparation of l aryl 1,4 dihydro 4 oxopyridazine 3 carboxylic acids via the rearrangement of a hydrazone in hot aqueous mineral acids or hot aqueous base is disclosed in Belgian Patent 864,704. These methods are additionally disclosed in British PatentSpecification 762,141 in United States Patent 2,835,671, in Helvetica Chimica Acta, 39, 1741 1956 , in the Journal of the American Chemical Society JACS , 78, 624 1955 and in JACS, 70, 2253 1948 . That l aryl 1,4 dihydro 4 oxopyridazine carboxylic acids can be esterified via Fischer esterification is disclosed in Helvetica Chimica Acta 39, 1741 1956 andUnited States Patent 2,835,671. The reaction of these esters with ammonia or primary alkyl amines to form l aryl 1,4 dihydro 4 oxopyridazine 3 carboxamides is also disclosed in this reference. The Fischer esterification method requires the isolation of the carboxylic acid prior to the esterification reaction.Fischer esterification reactions generally produce a crude product that is highly colored and rather impure.Several recrystallizations are often required to obtain material of adequate purity for analysis and testing. Fischer esterification generally requires several hours to several days before completion and gives low yields. Moreover, amidation requires additional time and subsequent lowering of yields. In accordance with the invention, there is provided a process for the preparation of a l aryl l, 4 dihydro 4 oxopyridazine carboxamide of the formula EMI2.1 which comprises reacting, in a liquid medium, ammonia or an amine of the formula R NH2 II with a hydrazone of the formula EMI2.2 where, in the above formulae, R1 is hydrogen, Cl C6 alkyl, Cl C4 alkoxy, C1 C4 alkyl, C3 C8 cycloalkyl, C3 C8 cycloalkyl C1 C4 alkyl, halo C1 C6 alkyl, c1 C4 alkoxy carbonyl C17C4 alkyl, benzyl or benzyl the ring of which is substituted with up to two of the same or different substituents selected from chloro, bromo, methyl, ethyl, methoxy, cyano, nitro and trifluoromethyl R and R3 are hydrogen or C1 C4 alkyl X is selected from halo, trihalometl, nitro, Cl C4 alkyl, Cl C4 alkoxy, Cl C4 alkylthio, C1 C4 alkylsulfinyl, Cl C4 alkylsulfonyl, cyano and carboxy, the X substituents being the same or different when n is 1 and n is zero or an integer from one to three.The amides of Formula I are useful as plant growth regulants and in particular as chemical hybridization agents. The reaction between the hydrazone and ammonia or amine is generally conducted at a temperature from 25 0C to 150 0C and preferably 400C to 80 0C and is also generally conducted in the presence of an inert solvent, particularly a cosolvent system. Also there will usually be used at least one mole of R NH2 reactant per mole of hydrazone. Furthermore it is convenient that the solvent medium contains excess R1NH2 reactant as a solvent. The term alkyl as used in this specification is meant to include both branched and straight chain alkyl groups also by the use of an unqualified term such as butyl, it is meant to include all the possible isomers. The term halo used herein means fluoro, chloro, bromo or iodo. Typical compounds of Formula II that can be utilized in the process of the invention include ammonia, methylamine, ethylamine, isopropylamine, n propylamine, n butylamine, sec butylamine, tert butylamine, n pentylamine, n hexylamine, methoxymethylamine, cyclohexylamine, cyclohexylmethylamine, benzylamine, chlorobenzylamine, glycine methyl ester and glycine. Typical inert solvents that can be utilized in solvent systems include aromatic hydrocarbons such as benzene, toluene, xylene and lower aliphatic alcohols such as methanol, ethanol, n propanol, n butanol and water A preferred process of this invention comprises using a hydrazone of Formula III wherein R2 and R3 are hydrogen, methyl or ethyl particularly hydrogen or methyl X is fluoro, chloro, bromo, iodo, trifluoromethyl, nitro, methyl, methoxy, methylthio, methylsulfonyl or methylsulfinyl particularly chloro, bromo or iodo and n is zero or the integer one or two.In this preferred process, there is also used ammonia or an amine of Formula 11 wherein R1 is methyl, ethyl, propyl, butyl, cyclohexyl, methoxycarbonylmethyl or benzyl. Finally, in this preferred process, there is used an excess of the Formula II compound as reaction solvent and there is used a temperature from 400C to 8OOC. Another feature of this invention involves the addional step of cooling the resultant reaction mixture, adding it in water, collecting the desired product by filtration or extracting it with an appropriate solvent. Appropriate solvents which can be utilized in this extraction procedure include methylene chloride, chloroform, carbon tetrachloride, benzene, toluene, xylene and diethylether. The isolated amide can, if desired, be treated with an aqueous or alcoholic solution of an alkali metal hydroxide such as sodium hydroxide or potassium hydroxide at reflux to form the corresponding sodium or potassium salt of the desired product.Alternatively, the amide can be treated at reflux with concentrated hydrochloric acid or 20 to 30 sulfuric acid until the free carboxylic acid is obtained. The following examples are presented to illustrate the process of the present invention. In the examples, percentages are on a weight basis unless otherwise indicated and degrees are in degrees Celsius. EXAMPLE 1Preparation of N ethyl l phenyl 1,4 dihydro 4 oxo6 methyl 3 carboxamide A suspension of 10 g of 3 phenylhydrazono 4 oxo6 methyl 2 pyrone 0.0436 moles in 100 ml of 35 aqueous ethylamine was refluxed for ten minutes, then cooled in an ice bath. The crystals that formed were collected by filtration and recrystallized from methylene chloride ether to yield 6.8 g of the desired product 61 yield , mp 169 70 C. EXAMPLE 2Preparation of N ethyl 1 4 chlorophenyl 1,4 dihydro 4 oxo 6 methyl 3 carboxamide A suspension of 8.0 g of 3 4 chlorophenylhydrazono 4 oxo 6 methyl 2 pyrone 0.0303 moles in 100 ml of 35 aqueous ethylamine was very briefly refluxed. As soon as the hydrazone dissolved the mixture was cooled and diluted with water. The solid that formed was collected by filtration and recrystallized from methylene chloride ether to yield 2.0 g of the desired amide 23 yield , mp 154 60C. EXAMPLE 3Preparation of N methyl 1 4 chlorophenyl l,4 dihydro 4 oxo 6 methylpyridazine 3 carboxamide A suspension of 8.0 g of 3 4 chlorophenylhydrazono 4 oxo 6 methyl 2 pyrone 0.0303 moles in 100 ml of 40 aqueous methylamine was refluxed for 15 minutes. The resulting clear orange solution was cooled to 10 C. The precipitate that formed was collected by filtration and recrystallized from methylene chloride ether to yield 5.6 g of the desired amide 66 , mp 237 80C. EXAMPLE 4Preparation of 1 4 chlorophenyl 1,4 dihydro 4 oxo 6 methyl pyridazine 3 carboxamide A suspension of 9.0 g of 3 4 chlorophenyl hydrazono 4 oxo 6 methyl 2 pyrone 0.0341 moles , 90 ml of concentrated ammonium hydroxide and 60 ml of methanol was refluxed for thirty minutes. The mixture was then cooled to 10 C. The solid that precipitates under these conditions was filtered and recrystallized from methylene chloride ether to yield 6.6 g of the desired amide 73 , mp 226 70C. EXAMPLE 5Preparation of N propyl l 4 chlorophenyl l,4 dihydro 4 oxo 6 methylpyridazine 3 carboxamide A suspension of 8.0 g of 3 4 chlorophenylhydrazono 4 oxo 6 methyl 2 pyrone 0.0303 moles in 25 g n propylamine 0.42 moles and 75 ml of water was refluxed very briefly, then cooled immediately.Extraction with methylene chloride 2 x 100 ml yielded a brown oil after evaporation.Recrystallization of this material from methylene chloride ether yielded 6.2 g of the desired amide 67 yield , mp 134 5 0C. EXAMPLE 6Preparation of N hexyl 1 4 chlorophenyl 1,4 dihydro 4 oxo 6 methyl pyridazine 3 carboxamide A suspension of 10 g of 3 4 chlorophenylhydrazono 4 oxo 6 methyl 2 pyrone 0.0379 moles , 12 g of n hexylamine 0.12 moles , 100 ml of methanol and 50 ml of water was refluxed for five minutes. The resulting deep orange solution was cooled and diluted with 300 ml of water. This mixture was then extracted with methylene chloride 3 x 100 ml . Evaporation of the organic extracts yielded an orange oil that crystallized on standing. Recrystallization from methylene chloride ether hexane yielded 4.5 g of the e desired amide 34 , rnp 113 8 C. EXAMPLE 7Preparation of N methoxycarbonylmethYl l t4 chlorophenyl 1, 4 dihydro 4 oxo 6 methylpyridazine 3 carboxamide A suspension of 11.4 g of 3 4 chlorophenyl hydrazono 4 oxo 6 methyl 2 pyrone 0.0435 moles in 100 ml of methanol containing 16.3 g of glycine methyl ester hydrochloride 0.130 moles was slowly added to 10.4 g of 50 aqueous sodium hydroxide. The resulting mixture was refluxed for 15 minutes, cooled, and poured into 400 ml of water. Extraction with 2 x 150 ml methylene chloride yielded a yellow solid. Recrystallization of this material from toluene yielded 6.3 g of the desired amide 43 yield , mp 166 80C. As stated above the improved process of the present invention produces higher yields of purer product at much shorter reaction times than processes utilizing Fischer esterification followed by amidation. Table I presented below gives a comparison of the process of the present invention as compared to standard Fischer esterification followed by amidation. TABLE IPresent Process Versus Fischer Eterification Amidation ProcessEMI8.1 Fischer Esterific ation Present Amidation Combined Present Process Process Reaction Process ReactionR X n Yield Time Yield Time H 4 Cl 60a x76 46 72 2 74 hrs. 73 30 minutesEt H 35a x77 25 20 2.5 22.5 hrs 61 10 minutes a Yield of corresponding ethyl ester.