# Substituted nitroimidazoles, process for their preparation and compositions containing them.

## Abstract
The invention provides dihydroxyisoxazolin 3 yl substituted 1 methyl 5 nitroimidazoles having the hydroxy groups on the 4 and 5 5 and 6 or 6 and 7 positions of the isoxazalin group, and their acid addition salts, as well as methods for producing the compounds and compositions containing them. The compounds of the invention have antibacterial and antiprotozoal activity in humans and animals and are particularly active against trypanosomiasis and trichomoniasis.

## Claims
WHAT IS CLAIMED IS 1. The compounds having the structural formula EMI12.1 wherein R is EMI12.2 and non toxic pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof. 2. The compound according to Claim 1 having the structural formula EMI12.3 and non toxic pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof. 3. The process for preparing a compound having the structural formula set forth in Claim 1 that comprises reacting a compound having the structural formula EMI13.1 with a cyclollexadiene having the structural formula EMI13.2 to obtain a compound having the structural formulaEMI13.3 where R is EMI14.1 and oxidizing the cyclohexane double bond. 4. A composition for the treatment of trypanosomiasis comprising an inert carrier and an effective amount of a compound as claimed in Claim 1. 5. The use in combating trypanosomiasis and trichomoniasis of a compound as claimed in Claim 1.

## Description
SUBSTITUTED NITROMIDAZOLLS This invention is concerned with substituted nitro imidazoles. The invention provides dihydroisoxazoldin 3 yl substituted 5 nitroimidazoles having tie structural formula EMI1.1 where R isEMI1.2 In accordan.ce with the invention, the novel compounds are prepared by Scheme I EMI2.1 Intermediate 5 was prepared by a 1,3 dipolar addition of the readily available l methyl 5 nitroimidazol 2 hydroxamoyl chloride 1 and 1,4 cyclohexadiene. The 5,6 dehydro nitroimidazole derivative 5 was converted by OSO4 catalyzed XC103 oxidation to the cis 5,6 diol 7 , while oxidation with m chloroperbenzoic acid tMC BA afforded an epoxide mixture which upon acid cleavage gave a mixture of trans diols.Addition of the nitrile oxide 1 to 1,3 cyclohexadiene likewise gave in good yield a major dehydro nitroimidazole analog, characterized by NMR as the 6,7dehydro compound 2 . The minor product was identified as the 4,5 dehydro compound. The same chemical transformation as for the 5,6 isomer afforded a cis 6,7 diol 4 and a well defined epoxide leading to a mixture of trans iols. The hydroxamoyl chloride 1 is prepared from the 2 formyl l methyl 5 nitroimidazole following procedures known in the art. For example, reaction with hydroxylamine is followed by chlorination with nitrosyl chloride. Preparation of the 2 formyl starting material is described in U.S. Patent 3,711,495 issuedJanuary 16, 1973. The reaction of an olefin with the hydroxamoyl chloride is carried out in the presence of an organic base, such as triethylamine. An inert solvent system is used, for instance, tetrahydrofuran is suitable.The reaction takes place in from one half to 2 hours at 0 25 C. The product is isolated by evaporating the solvent and purifying the residue by column chromatography. The oxidation of the intermediates 2 and 5 ar carried out in an inert solvent such as THF to which is adcled an aqueous solution of an oxidizing agent such as KC104 and a benzene solution of Iso4. The reaction is usually complete in 1 to 6 hours at a temperature range of boiling solvent to room temperature. The product is conveniently isolated by extracting the reaction mixture with an organic solvent, evaporating the solvent and purifying the residue by column chromatography. The novel compounds of this invention have antibacterial and antiprotozoal activity especially against human and animal trypanosomiasis, includingChagas disease, and trichomoniasis. Trypanosomiasis is a term used to describe a group of allied protozoal diseases, each of which.is due to infection with a species of the genus Tranosona. The important trypanosomes pathogenic to domestic animals are T. congolense, T. simiae, T. vivax, and T. brucei. The latter trypanosome is morphologically identical to T. gambiense, responsible for human sleeping sickness of Africa. A trypanosome found in the Western Hemisphere is T. cruzi which affects both domestic animals and man. Acute Chagas disease T. cruzi occurs predominantly in young children. The chronic form may be mild and asymptomatic, but complications from myocarditis and C.N.S. involvement may result with fatal outcome. The compounds of this invention have particular value in the control of trypanosomiasis and trichomoniasis in domesticated animals, particularly cattle. For this purpose, they may be administered orally with an ingestible carrier as a component of the animals feedstuff, in the drinking water, in salt blocks and in unit dosage forms such as boluses and drenches.The amount of active ingredient required for optimum control of trypanosomiasis varies in accordance with such factors as the particular compound employed, the species of animals to be treated, the species of infecting parasite, the severity of infection, and whether the compound is employed therapeutically or prophylactically. Tn general, the novel compounds of the present invention when administered orally to domestic animals in daily doses of from about 0.1 mg. to about 500 mg. per kilogram of animal body weight are highly effective in controlling trypanosomiasis and trichomoniasis without intolerable toxic effect. When these compounds are to be employed as therapeutic agents, good results are obtained when the animals are fed a daily dose of from about 5 mg. to about 500 mg. and preferably 15 mg. to 250 mg.per kilogram of body weight. The substituted imidazoles of the present invention may be administered, dispersed in or admixed with the normal elements of animals sustenance, i.e., the feed, drinking water or other liquids normally partaken by the animals. This method is preferred when it is desired to administer the active compounds continuously, either as a therapeutic or prophylactic agent, for a period of several days or more. When the novel compounds of the present invention above are provided as a constituent of the feed, the required dosage may be supplied with feed compositions containing from about 0.0001 to 3 percent by weight of the active compound. Such medicated fee compositions can be prepared for direct use by mixing the above amount of active ingredient directly with the feed. The medicated feeds may also be prepared by the use of feed supplements containing a higher concentration of the active ingredient uniformly dispersed in a solid edible carrier such as corn meal, wheat shorts, alfalfa, etc. In general, feed supplements containing from about 5 percent to about 50 percent by weight of active ingredient may be satisfactorily employed to supply the desired dosage in the finished feed. In the preparation of feed supplements, the active ingredient is added to the carrier and the whole mixed to give substantially uniform dispersion of the antitrypanosomiasis agent in the carrier. When the substituted nitroimidazoles of this invention are used in the prevention and treatment ofChagas disease and human sleeping sickness , thecompounds can be administered as intravenous, intramuscular, or interperitoneal injections suspended or dissolved in an inert non toxic pharmaceutically acceptable carrier. When used as a prophylactic, 2 12 ma. kg. of body weight are injected every 1 8 months. The compounds can also be used orally against Chagas disease or human sleeping sickness . The oral dosage is 3 20 mg. per kg. twice a day for 5 10 days. This invention is more fullv described in a reading of the following examples. EXAMPLE 1Preparation of 3 l Methyl 5 nitroimidazol 2 yl 3a,4,5 7a tetrahydro 1,2 bnziso3zole 2 A THF solution 250 ml. containing 1 methyl 5nitroimidazol 2 hydroxamic acid chloride 1 10.23 g., 0.05 mole and 1,3 cyclohexadiene 16.03 g., 0.2 mole was stirred in an ice bath. A solution of triethylamine 5.05 g., 0.05 mole, 6.97 ml. in THF 125 ml. was added slowly during 2 hours. Stirring continued for 1 hour at ice bath temperature. Then the mixture was allowed to come to 250C. and was allowed to stand at this temperature overnight. The reaction mixture was concentrated in vacuo at 500C. to afford an oily residue 12.4 g. which was dissolved in HCC13 and purified on a column of silica gel 360 g., E.Merck silica gel 60 prepared in HCC13. Fractions 13 to 52 100 ml., HCC13 show one spot in TLC SiO2, benzene EtOAc, 91 Rf 0.6 and were combined to yield 11.7 g. 94 crystalline 3 1 methyl 5 nitroimidazol 2 yl 3a,4,5,7a tetrahydro 1,2 benzisoxazole, melting point 137 90C.Elemental analysis C11H12N403 Calculated C, 53.22 H, 4.87 N, 22.57 Found C, 53.22 H, 4.83 N, 22.56. EXAMPLE laPreparation of 3 l Methyl 5 nitroimidazole 2 yl 3a, 6, 7, 7a tetrahydro l, 2 benzisoxazole Fractions number 55 through 69 of Example 1 contain the 4,5 double bond isomer of that compound, which is isolated by careful repeated chromatography on a 1000 silica gel plate 20 x 20 cm. and identified by its NMR spectrum. EXAMPLE 2Preparation of 2 3a,4,5,6,7,7a Hexahydro 6,7 oxido 1,2 benzisoxazol 3 yl l methyl 5 nitroimidazole 3 A solution of 3 1 methyl 5 nitroimidazol 2 yl 3a,4,5,7a tetrahydro 1,2 benzisoxazole 0.90 g., 3.6 mmole , m chloroperbenzoic acid 1.8 g. of 85 material, 8.8 mmole in HCC13 50 ml. was kept 48 hours at 250C. The reaction mixture was washed with aqueous Na2C03, H20, dried anhydrous MgS04 and concentrated in vacuo. Crystallization from acetone ether gave 420 mg. 448 of 2 3a,4, 5,6,7,7a hexahydro 6,7 oxidoF benzisoxazol 3 yl3 1 methyl 5 nitroimidazole, m.p. 144 700C. Recrystallized from acetone ether gave m.p. 150 1OC. Elemental analysis CllH12N404 Calculated C, 50.00 H, 4.58 N, 21.20 Found C, 49.88 H, 4.48 N, 21.68. EXAMPLE 3Preparation of 6,7 Cis Dihydroxy 3a,4,5,6,7, a hexahydro 3 l methyl 5 nitrrmldazol 2 yl 1,2 benzisoxoazl 4 To a solution of 3 l methyl 5 nitroimidazol 2 yl 3a,4,5,7a tetrahydro l,2 benzisoxazole 5.30 g., 21.4 mmole in THF 385 ml. stirred in an oil bath of 500C.was added in rapid succession an aqueous solution ofKC103 3.58 g., 29.2 mmole in 190 ml. of water and OsO4 1.1 mmole, 2.8 ml. of 10 w v 0sO4 in C6H6 . The reaction temperature was maintained with vigorous stirring for 3 hours, when TLC SiO2, ethyl acetate indicated completion of the reaction. The mixture was poured into water 500 ml. and extracted with ethyl acetate 3 x 250 ml. . The organic phases were combined, washed with saturate aqueous sodium chloride solution, dried anhydrousMgS04 and concentrated in vacuo. The residue was purified on a column of SiO2 700 g., E.Merck silica gel CO in ethyl acetate solution to give 3.3 g. crude 6,7 cis dihydroxy 3a,4,5,6,7,7a hexahydro 3 imidazol 2 yl 1,2 benzisoxoazol, crystallized from ethyl acetate ether to yield 2.8 g. 46 4 , m.p. 157 90C.Elemental analysis CllH14N405 Calculated C, 46.81 H, 5.08 N, 19.85 Found C, 46.64 H, 4.91 N, 1t.68. EXAMPLE 3aPreparation of 4,5 Cis Dihydroxy 3a,4,5,C,7,7a hexahydro 3 1 methyl 5 nitroimidazol 2 yl 1,2 benziso xazole Following the procedure of Example 3 using 3 1 methyl 5 nitroimidazole 2 yl 3a,6,7,7a tetra hydro 1,2 benzisoxazole in place of 3 1 methyl 5 nitro imidazole 2 yl 3a,4,5,7a tetrahydro 1,2 benzisoxazole, there is obtained 4 ,.5 cis dihydroxy 3a,4, 5, 6,7,7a hexa hydro 3 l methyl 5 nitroimidazol 2 yl l , 2 benzisoxazole. EXAMPLE 4Preparation of 3 l Methyl 5 nitroimidazol 2 yl 3a,4, 7,7a tetrahydro 1,2 benzisoxazole 5 A mixture of 1 2.05 g., 0.01 mole , 1,4cyclohexadiene 3.2 a., 0.04 mole in toluene 100 ml. was stirred under reflux for 3 hours, filtered hot and let cool to 250C. The filtrate was concentrated in vacuo, the residue dissolved in HCC13 and chromatographed on SiO2 E. Merck, silica gel 60 to give 3 1 methyl 5 nitro imidazol 2 yl 3a,4,7,7a tetrahydro l,2 benzisoxazoie as a light oil 0.917 g. 37 which solidified, m.p. 12360C. It was recrystallized from acetone ether, m.p.126 80C.Elemental analysis C11H12N403 Calculated C, 53.22 H, 4.87 N, 22.57 Found C, 53.53 H, 5.08 N, 22.36. EXAMPLE 5Preparation of 2 3a,4,5,6,7,7a Hexahydro 5,6 oxido 1,2 benzisoxazol 3 yl l methyl 5 nitroimidazole 6 A solution of 3 l methyl 5 nitroimidazol 2 yl 3a,4,7,7a tetrahydro 1,2 benzisoxazole 90 mg., 0.40 mmole , 3 ClC6H4C03H 180 mg., 0.88 mole in HCC13 4 ml. was stirred 16 hours at 250C. Workup with methylene chloride, saturated aqueous sodium bicarbonate and water and recrytallization from acetone ether gave 44 mg. 2 3a,4,5,6,7,7a hexahydro 5,6 oxido 1,2 benzisoxazol 3 yl l methyl 5 nitroimidazole, m.p. 171 30C. TLC showed one major and one minor spot, after recrystallizationTLC showed only one spot .Elemental analysis CllH12N404 Calculated C, 50.00 H, 4.58 N, 21.20 Found C, 50.28 H, 4.71 N, 21.11. EXAMPLE 6Preparation of 5,6 cis Dihydroxy 3a,4,5,6,7,7a hexahydr 3 1 methv1 5 nitroimldazol 2 yl 1,2 benzisoxazole 7 Reaction of 3 1 methyl 5 nitroimidazol 2 yl 3a,4,7,7a tetrahydro 1,2 benzisoxazole 248 mg., 1.0 mmole with KClo3 166 mg., 1.36 mmole, dissolved in 9 ml. of water and OsO4 0.13 ml., 13 mg. 0.05 mmole of 10 solution in C6H6 in THF 18 ml. is carried out for 3 hours at 50 C. Workup with water ethyl acetate and recrystallization from ethyl acetate yielded 135 mg. 5,6 cis dihydroxy 3a,4,5,6,7,7a hexahydro 3 l methyl 5 nitroimidazol 2 yl 1,2 benzisoxazole, m.p. 190 20C. Elemental analysis CllH14N405 Calculated C, 46.81 H, 5.08 N, 19.85 Found C, 46.81 H, 5.02 N, 19.53. EXAMPLE 7Preparation of 6,7 trans Dihydroxy 3a,4,5, 6,7,7a hexa hydro 3 1 methyl 5 nitroimidazol 2 yl 1,2 benzisoxazole A solution of 2 3a,4,5,6,7,7a hexahydro 6,7 oxido 1,2 benzisoxazol 3 yl 1 methyl 5 nitroimidazole 132 mg., 0.5 mmole in tetrahydrofuran 11 ml. is stirred at 180C. while perchloric acid 1.2 ml., 23 aqueous HC104 is added dropwise.The reaction mixture is kept for 2 hours at 180C., then dilute with HCCl31 washed with aqueous NaHCO3 solution and evaporated in vacuo to a pink glass, the major compound of which is identified by NMR and mass spectra as 6,7 trans dihydroxy 3a,4,5,6,7,7a hexahydro 3 tl methyl 5 nitroimidazol 2 yl 1, 2 benzisoxazole. EXAMPLE 7aPreparation of 5,6 trans Dihydroxy 3a,4,5,6,7,7a hexa hydro 3 1 methyl 5 nitroimidazol 2 yl 1,2 benzisoxazole Following the procedure of Example 7 using 2 3a,4,5,6,7,7a hexahydro 5,6 oxido 1,2 benzisoxazol 3 yl l methyl 5 nitroimidazole in place of 2 3a,4,5,6,7,7a hexahydro 6, 7 oxido l, 2 benzisoxazol 3 y1 1 methyl S nitroimidazole, one obtains 5,6 trans dihydroxy 3a,4,5,6, 7,7a hexahydro 3 1 methyl 5 nitroimidazol 2 yl 1,2 benz isoxazole.