# Dibble tube soil plug planter.

## Abstract
A planter is moved through a field to place two rows of four plants on the top of a planting bed 22 between adjacent irrigation furrows 20 . Plants ready for trans plant are disposed in trays 26 within polymerized cast soil plugs. Each plug is disposed within the tray 26 in a hole. Each tray 26 has rows and columns of plant receiving holes extending through each tray 26 . The planter carrying the plugs moves in increments and sets the planter mechanism in a stationary position over the top of the planting bed prior to plug planting. The tray 26 carrying the transplants is registered horizontally and vertically to a plug receiving cylinder by respective cams and a supporting chain. Upon registry, polymer plugs containing sprouted plants therein are ejected, typically eight at a time, by ejecting fingers penetrating the plant receiving holes. Ejection occurs with the plants hori zontally disposed into receiving concavities defined within a rotating cylinder. Rotation of the cylinder drops the ejected plants into receiving funnels, one for each plant. Upon return rotation of the cylinder, connection of a wind chest to the receiving funnel occurs with an air blast forcing the plug and carried plant downwardly through a tube. Plant downward travel halts at a reci procating plate. Insertion of the plug into the ground begins with penetration of the ground by a dibble spike followed by circumscribing penetration of a dibble tube J around the spike. When spike is withdrawn, the plant is reciprocated into registry with the dibble tube J and the plant blown under pressure down to the bottom of the dibble tube J . With the air pressure applied, the dibble tube J is retracted, leaving the plant in its wake. Compaction occurs by a soft wheel 64, 65 running over the newly sprouted plant. After planting eight plants simultaneously, the planter incrementally advances, leaving in its wake groups of plants, typically eight lettuce plants on 30,5 cm 12 inch centers staggered in ap proximate 15,25 cm 6 inch spacing one from another.