# Apparatus and process for inline filament winding.

## Abstract
An inline winding apparatus and process are provided for taking up a rapidly advancing filament, especially a glassy alloy filament of indefinite length at constant speed directly from a high speed continuous forming process without tension isolation. The winder is inherently load following and thus eliminates the need for any complex feedback control system. The winder comprises a winding reel rotatively driven by a synchronous hysteresis electri cal motor and selection means for independently adjust ing voltage and frequency input to the motor. The method of using the winder comprises preadjusting the frequency input to initially synchronize winder and filament speeds and preadjusting voltage input to select winding torque and initial winding tension. A transfer device is also dis closed wherein winding is transferred uninterruptedly from a wound, rotating reel to an empty, rotating wheel.

## Claims
WHAT IS CLAIMED IS 1. Apparatus for taking up an advancing filament from a rotating quench surface 13 at a substantially constant speed characterized by a a winding reel 15 in rotative communication with a synchronous hysteresis electrical motor 22 having a substantially constant pull down torque characteristic and b selection means for adjusting the voltage input to said motor to select winding torque and for adjusting the frequency input to said motor to select the rotational velocity of said motor at synchronous condition to be about two percent less than the angular velocity of said quench surface. 2. Apparatus, as in claim 1, wherein the moment of inertia of said motor is substantially less than the moment of inertia of said reel with a full winding of said filament. 3. Apparatus, as in claim 1 or 2, further comprising c cut and grip means for simultaneously cutting and securing said advancing filament at the core of said winding reel. 4. Apparatus, as in claim 3, further comprising d a pair of said winding reels symmetrically mounted on a rotatable transfer disk. 5. Apparatus, as in claim 4, wherein said filament has high tensile stiffness relative to the winding tension exerted by said winding torque. 6. A method for taking up an advancing filament from a rotating quench surface at substantially constant speed onto a winder having a winding reel driven by a synchronous hysteresis electrical motor, characterized by a adjusting the voltage input to said motor to select winding torque b adjusting the frequency input to said motor to select the rotational speed of saia winding reel such that the peripheral velocity of the core of said reel is about two percent less than the angular velocity of said quench surface and c security said advancing filament to the core of said winding reel, whereupon inline winding of said advancing filament proceeds. 7. A method, as in claim 6, wherein the iuO ment of inertia of said motor is substantially less than the moment of inertia of said reel with a full winding of said filament. 8. A method, as in claim 6 or 7, further coir prising d upon said reel becoming nearly filled, brinying the core of an empty reel of a second such winder into contact with a segment of said advancing filament, said second winder having been preadjusted as in steps a and b then e simultaneously cutting and securing said advancing filament at the core of said second winder, thereby continuing to wind said advancing filament uninterruptedly and f repeating indefintely steps d and e wherein said winders interchange operative status in alternating fashion. 9. A method, as in claim 8, wherein said filament has high tensile stiffness relative to the winding tension exerted by said winding torque. 10. A method, as in claim 8, wherein said filament is a glassy alloy filament continuously advancing from said rotating quench surface upon which said filament is continuously cast from a stream of molten alloy.

## Description
DESCRIPTION APPARATUS M4D PROCESS FOR INLINE FILAMENT WINDING BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION This invention relates generally to the inline winding of a rapidly advancing filament directly from a continuous forming process and specifically to the inline winding of a glassy alloy filament directly from a continuous casting process. Glassy alloys are of considerable technological interest owing to their extraordinary physical properties as compared to the properties characterizing the polycrystalline form of such alloys. The term glassy alloy is intended to refer to metals and alloys that are rapidly quenched from a liquid state to a substantially amorphous solid state, typically having less than about 50 crystallinity, and is considered to be synonymous with such terms as amorphous metal alloy and metallic glass . Glassy alloys are well documented in the literature. Representative examples are shown inU.S. Patent 3,856,513 Novel Amorphous Metals ... issued December 24, 1974 to H. Chen and D. Polk, hereby incorporated by reference. For an extensive background, see Metallic Glasses , American Society for Metals 1978 . In the production of glassy alloy continuous filaments, typically an appropriate molten alloy is quenched at extreme quench rates, usually at least about 10 50C per second, by extruding the molten alloy from a pressurized crucible by through an extrusion nozzle onto a high speed rotating quench surface, as is representatively shown in U.S. Patent 4,142,571 for ContinuousCasting Method for Hetallic Strips issued March 6, 1979 to M. Narasimhan, hereby incorporated by reference.Such filaments are necessarily thin, typically about 25 to 100 microns, owing to the extreme heat transfer requirements to prevent substantial crystallization, though considerable selectivity may be exercised respecting the transverse dimensions and cross section of the filament. Thus, the term filament is intended to include strips, narrow and wide, as well as wire like filaments. It is commercially desirable to wind the filament inline with its continuous casting process.However, successful inline winding of glassy alloy filaments is made difficult by several aspects. First, linear casting speeds are necessarily high, typically 1,000 to 2,000 meters per minute 37 to 75 miles per hour , as required to achieve the extreme quench rates discussed above. Second, tension isolation between the inline winder and the continuous casting process, as representatively shown in U.S. Patent 3,938,583 issued February 17, 1976 and hereby incorporated by reference, may produce objectionable surface striation and blemishing on the nascent hot filament, thereby undesirably inducing a high degree of directionality in the physical properties of the glassy alloy. Third, winding tension must be low so as not to disturb the nascent filament in the delicate quench zone as molten alloy is extruded onto the rotating quench wheel. Thus, to wind glassy alloy filament inline with its continuous casting process without tension isolation, the inline winder must provide extremely close speed matching of the winding surface with the rapidly advancing filament. Further, since the filament is wound onto a winding wheel, the diameter of the wound package will gradually increase and, as the diameter increases, the rotational speed of the winder must be correspondingly decreased to maintain a constant speed winding surface. The conventional approach in providing for constant speed inline winding relies upon complex feedback control systems, as representatively shown in U.S.Patent 4,146,376 Microcomputer Controlled Winder issued March 27, 1979 to J. Beckman and J. Lonberger.The present invention provides a simple and relatively inexpensive alternative for taking up a rapidly advancing filament by utilizing a winder that is inherently load following, thereby eliminating the need for any complex winding speed and torque controller. SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION The present invention takes advantage of the operating characteristics of a conventional synchronoushysteresis SH electrical motor, both in its normal and abnormal operating modes, to provide in simple and inexpensive fashion a load following inline winder, especially suited for taking up a glassy alloy filament advancing at constant speed directly from a sensitive, high speed continuous casting process. SH motors as normally used operate at constant rotational speed in spite of a varying torque load the synchronous mode .However, an abnormal operating mode the pull down mode is encountered upon the load torque reaching an upper limit the pull down torque at which point the motor slows down smoothly while continuing to exert a substantially constant torque the pull down torque . Both operating modes are important in the present invention. In the initial stage of taking up a continuous filament advancing at constant speed onto a reel, the motor operates in its synchronous mode whereby close speed matching of the peripheral speed of the core of the reel with filament speed is obtained by selectively preadjusting the frequency input to the motor. As winding begins, the radius of the winding increases thus, the constant speed filament immediately exerts a load torque on the motor tending to slow the rotational speed of the motor. Upon the load torque quickly reaching the value of pull down torque, the rotational speed of the motor begins to gradually slow in correspondence with the gradually increasing winding radius.However, during this pull down stage in the winding sequence, the motor continues to exert a substantially constant output torque pull down torque which is selectively predetermined according to the voltage input to the motor.Thus, there is not the usual dramatic tension increase on the filament during pull down winding as in the uncontrolled winding situation with the result that the delicate casting operation is not disturbed. Further, any need for tension isolators between the winding reel and the casting process is eliminated, desirably so since the nascent, hot filament is particularly susceptible to surface blemishing and distortion. Accordingly, the apparatus of the invention for taking up an advancing filament at a substantially constant speed, includes the elements a a winding reel in rotative communication with a synchronous hysteresis electrical motor having a substantially constant pull down torque characteristic and b selection means for adjusting the voltage input to the motor to select winding torque and for adjusting the frequency input to the motor to select the rotational speed of the motor at synchronous condition so as to match the speed of the filament. So that winding of the advancing filament may be transferred uninterruptively from a wound reel to an empty, rotating reel, the apparatus may further include the elements c cut and grip means for simultaneously cutting and securing the advancing filament at the core of the winding reel and d a pair of the winding reels symmetrically mounted on a rotatable transfer disk. Preferably, the moment of inertia of the motor is substantially less than the moment of inertia of the reel with a full winding of the filament, and the filament has high tensile stiffness relative to the winding tension exerted by the winding torque. The method of the invention for taking up an advancing filament at substantially constant speed onto a winder having a winding reel driven by a synchronoushysteresis electrical motor, includes the steps a adjusting the voltage input to the motor to select winding torque b adjusting the frequency input to the motor to select the rotational speed of the winding reel such that the peripheral speed of the core of the reel substantially equals the speed of the advancing filament and c securing the advancing filament to the core of the winding reel, whereupon inline winding of the advancing filament proceeds. So that winding of the advancing filament may be transferred uninterruptively from a wound reel to an empty, rotating reel, the method may further include the steps d upon the reel becoming nearly filled, bringing the core of an empty reel of a second such winder into contact with a segment of the advancing filament, the second winder having been preadjusted as in steps a and b then e simultaneously cutting and securing the advancing filament at the core of the second winder, thereby continuing to wind the advancing filament uninterruptedly and f repeating indefintely steps d and e wherein the winders interchange operative status in alternating fashion. BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS Further details are given below with reference to the embodiments shown in the drawings wherein FIG. 1 shows the winder of the present inven tion as applied to typical prior art apparatus for the continuous casting of glassy alloy filaments, wherein molten alloy is extruded through a nozzle onto a rotating quench wheel with the solidified advancing filament being taken up directly onto the winding reel. FIG. 2 illustrates an idealized torque versusspeed curve that is characteristic of SH electrical motors. FIGS. 3A through 3D show an operating sequence of an embodiment of the present invention, wherein two winders are symmetrically mounted on a rotatable transfer disk providing for uninterrupted winding transfer of the advancing filament from a wound, rotating reel onto an empty, rotating reel. DESCRIPTION OF THE PREFERRED EMBODIMENTS Referring specifically to the drawings, inFIG. 1, typical prior art apparatus for the continuous casting of a glassy alloy filament of indefinite length is illustrated to point out the general use of the present invention. Molten alloy is contained in a crucible 11 provided with a heating element 12. Pressurization of the crucible with an inert gas causes a molten stream to be extruded through a nozzle 19 at the base of the crucible onto a rotating quench wheel 13. The solidified, moving filament 14 after its breakaway point from the quench wheel is routed onto a winding reel 15. Reel 15 is secured with conventional chuck 20 to shaft 21 which is driven by SH motor 22 according to the present invention. Conventional braking means or transmission means 23 may optionally be interposed between motor 22 and reel 15.The rotation of quench wheel 13 is shown in the reverse casting mode however, the present invention may readily be applied to the forward casting mode. Monospiral winding is shown however, the invention applies equally to traverse winding. To initiate winding in conventional fashion, the filament is strung up by utilizing an aspirator not shown whereby the leading portion of the advancing fil ament is drawn through an aspirating nozzle. An operator then manipulates the aspirator to lay the advancing filament onto the core of the winding reel, rotating at a speed approximately matching that of the advancing filament. A trigger device 16, such as a photoelectric sensor and solenoid, then releases a spring loaded, pivotal gripping element 17 associated with the winding reel to cut and secure the advancing filament 14 to the reel 15, whereupon winding proceeds inline with the casting process. Representative examples of such cutand grip apparatus are shown in U.S. Patent 4,116,394 Moving Filament Gripping Mechanism issued September 26, 1978 to R. Smith et al., hereby incorporated by reference.Upon the winding reel becoming filled, the advancing filament may be cut and transferred to an empty, rotating reel by the transfer device discussed below. SH electrical motors are noted for their rather unusual operating characteristics in that rotational speed remains constant synchronous over a wide range of load torque and also in that as the motor is pulled down from synchronous speed under excessive load torque, the motor continues to operate with a substantially constant torque output. In FIG. 2, the idealized form of the characteristic curve for SH motors is illustrated rotational speed, w, vs. motor torque, Tm . The synchronous speed wO is selectable according to the frequency f of the voltage source for the motor, and the pull down torque Tx is selectable according to the voltage magnitude V of that source.The motor maintains the synchronous speed as the motor is loaded from a no load condition Tm up to the pull down torque Tm Tx . With further increasing load, the motor is pulled down smoothly from synchronous speed while the motor torque remains substantially constant. The general use of this type of motor for restrained winding constant linear winding speed may be understood with reference to a winding cycle. First, synchronous rotational speed wO is established as corresponding to the linear speed of the advancing filament. By adjusting the frequency f input to the motor, the tangential speed of the core of the winding reel can be set to equal that of the advancing filament.Allowance is made for thermal contraction of the filament as it cools in traveling from the casting zone to the winder. As the winder rotates at synchronous speed we , the motor will develop sufficient torque to match frictional and windage loads. This no load condition is shown at point 1 with the motor developing the corresponding no load torque To Upon the advancing filament being secured to the winding surface, the winder is subjected to a winding load almost immediately since the speed of the winding surface is restrained to match the constant filament speed as the wound radius begins to increase. As the motor attempts to maintain synchronous speed w , point 2 is reached virtually instantaneously thereby establishing an initial winding tension in the filament to maintain tautness.It is noted that for restrained winding, the winding tension is typically substantially less than the tensile stiffness of the filament so that elongation per unit length of the filament during winding is low . Winding torque Tw at point 2 is shown as the torque difference between no load torque To and pull down torque Tx . The magnitude of the pull down torque Tx is selected by adjusting the voltage magnitude V input to the motor. In the next phase as winding proceeds, the rotational speed continues to decrease with increasing wound radius since the filament speed is substantially constant. The motor, however, continues to operate while developing the pull down torque substantially .Eventually, the winding end point is reached at final rotational speed w, as shown at point 3. It is preferred that the motor have a low moment of inertia relative to the overall winder inertia in the fully wound configuration to promote the winder responding quickly in a substantially load following manner during pull down winding such that the tangential speed of the winding surface closely follows the filament speed. As an illustrative example, a winder of the present invention utilizes a 40.6 cm diameter monospiral winding reel having a 20.3 cm diameter core that is rotatively driven by a 1 5 horsepower SH motor ElectricIndicator Company, Norwalk, Conn. to take up an advancing glassy alloy filament directly from a continuous casting wheel. The glassy alloy filament is of an ironboron compositional base e.g. U.S. Patent 4,036,638 issued July 19, 1977 and has a rectangular cross section of 1.27 cm width and about 50 microns thickness.Casting speed of the filament is substantially constant at about 1150 meters per minute. The hot filament thermally contracts about 2 , as it travels from the quench wheel to the winding reel, so that the speed of the filament at the winder is about 1125 meters per minute. The line frequency to the motor is adjusted by conventional means to about 58.7 cps to establish synchronous speed at 1762 RPM which corresponds to a peripheral speed at the core of the reel that equals the speed of the advancing filament. The line voltage to the motor is adjusted by conventional means to about 230 volts to establish pull down torque at about 9.2 cm kg.Initial winding torque is about 75 of this value or 6.9 cm kg, allowing for frictional and windage losses, producing an initial winding tension of 0.68 kg, sufficient to suppress flutter of the filament in its span between the quench wheel and the winding reel. This winding tension produces a tensile stress in the filament of 2 about 107 kg cm , which is much less than the tensile modulus of the glassy alloy. The pull down characteristic may be slightly positive, e.g. a 20 smooth increase in torque during pull down, to approximately compensate for increased frictional loss of the reel during winding.To initiate winding, the leading segment of the advancing filament is directed from the quench wheel to the winding wheel using a conventional string up aspirator to contact the filament with the rotating core of the reel thereby triggering the cutand grip mechanism which secures the filament to the rotating core. Inline winding then proceeds for about 1.7 minutes with the wound radius increasing from the core to fill the reel and correspondingly with the reel speed smoothly decreasing from synchronous speed to about 880 RPM, as restrained by the constant speed filament. Winding tension generally decreases as an inverse function of the wound radius, the extent being somewhat dependent upon inertial characteristics of the wound filament on the reel. For this example, final winding tension would be about 60 of the initial winding tension.Generally, winding tension reduction in the course of winding a reel with a dense filament is desirable to avoid collapsing the chuck and making removal of the wound reel difficult. Winding is then transferred uninterruptedly to an empty, rotating winder, preadjusted to the synchronous condition, according to the transfer device discussed below. In FIG. 3, another embodiment of the invention is shown wherein two SH winders 31 and 32 are symmetrically mounted on a rotatable transfer disk 33 providing for uninterrupted winding transfer of the advancing filament 34 from a wound, rotating reel onto an empty, rotating reel. In sequence, FIGS. 3A through 3D illustrate the operation of the transfer device. In step A, SR winder 31 is shown taking up the advancing filament 34 as discussed above. SH winder 32 is rotating empty at synchronous condition having been preadjusted as discussed above.In step B, as winder 31 nears completion, the transfer disk 33 is rotated 900 to contact a segment of the advancing filament 34 with the rotating core of winder 32, thereby triggering its associated cut and grip mechanism to cut the filament at winder 32 and to secure the advancing segment to its core. In step C, the transfer disk 33 is rotated another 900 thereby beginning another cycle wherein the wound reel of winder 31 is replaced with an empty reel and winder 31 is brought back to synchronous speed. In step D, the winding and transfer operation continues. Thus, winders 31 and 32 interchange operative status in an indefinitely alternating manner. Although the present invention has been described in conjunction with preferred embodiments, it is to be understood that modifications and variations may be utilized without departing from the principles and scope of the invention as those skilled in the art will readily understand. Accordingly, such modifications and variations may be practiced within the scope of the following claims