# Hydrogenated high vinyl polybutadiene.

## Abstract
The composition described herein is a hydrogenated polymer derived from a polybutadiene having 85 100 , preferably 95 100 1,2 structure. The hydrogenated pro duct is an elastomeric material which is oxidation resistant and stable against ozone. Moreover, since the original high vinyl polymer may be made by a method which permits control of the molecular weight, the molecular weight of the ultimate hydrogenated products is also controllable. The control of molecular weight and microstructure give highly desirable properties in the ultimate elastomeric pro duct, and also control of tacticity and crystallinity.

## Claims
THE INVENTION CLAIMED IS 1. A polymeric composition having elastomeric properties and having improved resistance to aging comprising the hydrogenated product of a polybutadiene having 85 100 percent 1,2 microstructure, the unsaturation in said polybutadiene being at least 85 percent hydrogenated. 2. The composition of claim 1 in which said polybutadiene is at least 95 percent hydrogenated. 3. The composition of claim 1 in which said polybutadiene has 95 100 percent 1,2 microstructure. 4. The composition of claim 3 in which said polybutadiene is at least 95 percent hydrogenated. 5. The composition of claim 1 in which said hydrogenated polybutadiene has a molecular weight of .50,000 1,000,000. 6. The composition of claim 1 in which said hydrogenated polybutadiene has a molecular weight of 200,000 1,000,000.

## Description
HYDROGENATED HIGH VINYL POLYBUTADIENEBACKGROUND OF THE INVENTIONField of the Invention This invention relates to the production of elastomeric hydrogenated polybutadiene. More specifically it relates to an elastomer of controlled molecular weight and of desired branching in the microstructure. Still more specifically it relates to an elastomeric polybutadiene having good resistance to oxidation and stability against ozone.Related Prior Art The most pertinent references found with regard to hydrogenated products of polybutadienes having substantial amounts of 1,2 microstructure are the articles byE. W. Duck et al which appeared in Journal of the IRI , pages 223 227 of the October, 1968 issue and pages 19 22 of the February, 1972 issue. However, neither of these publications show the hydrogenation of polybutadienes having more than 60 vinyl structure. Langer et al, U. S. Patent No. 3,451,988 shows a method for preparing polybutadiene having higher amounts of 1,2 microstructure. However, there is no reference to hydrogenation of such products nor is there any indication of the properties or type of products produced by such hydrogenation. It would be expected that complete hydrogenation of a polymer containing substantially 100 1,2 microstructure would produce a product slmilar to polybutene l, which is available commercially as a tough plastic or resin suitable for molding or for extruding into pipe, etc. Such polybutene l products are described in a bulletin published by Skeist Laboratories, Inc. ofLivingston, New Jersey, on pages 77 81 of a section headed Specialty Polymers. These tough resins are also described in recent textbooks on polymers, such as organic Polymer Chemistry by K. J. Saunders, first published in 1973 by Chapman Hall London , distributed by John Wiley Sons New York , pp 67 68.SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION In accordance with the present invention it has been found that elastomers of good oxidation resistance, of good stability against ozone, good tacticity and crystallinity and of controlled molecular weight may be prepared by the hydrogenation of polybutadienes of controlled molecular weight having 85 100 , preferably 95 100 1,2 microstructure. The starting high vinyl polybutadiene may be prepared by any method suitable for this purpose but it has been found particularly effective to produce these high vinyl polybutadienes by an anionic catalyst system which gives control over the molecular weight produced. Particularly suitable for this purpose is an alkyl lithium catalyst modified with a chelating bifunctional Lewis base such as 1,2 di N methylpiperazinyl N ethane DMPE . The hydrogenation is effected by any appropriate method capable of hydrogenating advantageously 85 100 , preferably 95 100 , of the original unsaturation leaving residual unsaturation of 0 15 , preferably 0 5 . A particularly suitable catalyst system for this purpose comprises a combination of nickel, cyclohexene and triisobutyl aluminum as described more fully below. The hydrogenated high vinyl polybutadiene of this invention is particularly resistant to degradation by oxidation or ozone reaction. Since the high vinyl structure of the polybutadiene has little or no unsaturation in the linear chain, there is little likelihood that oxidation or ozone reaction will cause rupture of the linear chain. This resistance to oxidation and to ozone reaction is evident in the hydrogenated product by the accompanying resistance to degradation of the polymer chains. Moreover, since the anionic polymerization system permits close control of the molecular weight of the starting high vinyl polybutadiene, this means that the molecular weight of the ultimate product may be similarly controlled since the molecular weight of the hydrogenated product is substantially that of the starting high vinyl polymer. The molecular weight Mn of the hydrogenated product is advantageously in the range of 50,0001,000,000, preferably 100,000 1,000,000. Furthermore, narrow molecular weight ranges may be desired for specific properties, and the tacticity and crystallinity are likewise controllable. The hydrogenated high vinyl polybutadienes of this invention have high tack and high green strength similar to natural rubber. Moreover these new polymers have the low rebound and low air permeability characteristic of butyl rubber. Therefore these hydrogenated polymers combine desirable properties of both natural rubber and butyl rubber.PROCEDURE FOR PREPARATION OF HIGH VINYL POLYBUTADIENEOF CONTROLLED MOLECULAR WEIGHT The following typical procedure is used to prepare the high vinyl polybutadiene A cleaned 2 gallon stainless steel reactor equipped with stirrer, appropriate heating and cooling means, and appropriate inlets and outlets is prepared for reaction by filling it under a nitrogen atmosphere with hexane and adding n butyl lithium in an amount sufficient to react with impurities in the hexane and on the surface of the reactor. The mixture is stirred and heated to 1500F 650C for about an hour.Then this mixture is drained under a nitrogen atmosphere and the material discarded. Next 7.5 lbs. of a blend containing 24 1,3 butadiene 817 gms. butadiene and 768 of hexane is charged to the reactor under nitrogen and cooled to 410F 50C before adding 16.5 millimoles of n butyl lithium and 33 milimoles of 1,2 di N methylpiperzinyl N ethane DMPE . The temperature is maintained at 410F 50C and efficient stirring effected.After about 8 hours of reaction, the product is dropped into a large volume of isopropanol containing an antioxidant. The precipitated product is recovered and drumdried to give substantially 100 yield of a polymer having a molecular weight of about 50,000 Mn and a 1,2 content of substantially 100 . The molecular weight may be increased by decreasing the amount of n butyl lithium and decreased by increasing the amount of n butyl lithium, advantageously with appropriate changes in the amount of DMPE to give aDMPE Li ratio of approximately 2. This method of varying or controlling the molecular weight by varying the amount of catalyst used per mole of monomer is well known in the anionic polymerization art. The polymerization temperature has an effect on the 1,2 content of the product with increase in temperature within limits decreasing the 1,2 content, and vice versa within limits. It is generally desirable to maintain a temperature no higher than 410F 50C to obtain maximum 1,2 content as shown by the following table Approximate Temperature 1,2 Content Below 410F 50C 100 410F 50C 99.8 480F 90C 98 750F 240C 97 850F 290C 95 900F 320C 90 Above 900F 320C Less than 90 PROCEDURE FOR HYDROGENATION OF POLYBUTADIENE The high vinyl polybutadiene 1200 gms is dissolved in 5 gallons of toluene. This polymer solution is transferred to a stainless steel reactor equipped with means for stirring, heating and cooling and with inlet and outlet means.An additional gallon of toluene is added to the original mixing container to dissolve any residue of polymer and the resulting solution is also added to the reactor. The reactor is sealed and heated to 1300F 550C with stirring and sufficient vacuum is applied to remove any dissolved gases. Then the free space in the reactor is flushed twice with H2 to 50 psi. After each flushing, vacuum is again applied to remove traces of dissolved gases. Then, with a hydrogen atmosphere maintained, the hydrogenation catalyst is added which comprises Ni cyclohexene triisobutyl aluminum in the molar ratio of 1 1 3 4 and 25 5 millimoles of Ni per 100 grams of polymer. After the catalyst is added the temperature is raised to 170 1900F 77 880C and hydrogen introduced to 150 psi. Since the hydrogenation is diffusion controlled, rapid stirring is effected. When the hydrogen pressure drops to 75 100 psi, the reactor is repressurized with hydrogen to 150 psi. Generally hydrogenation is complete in 7 10 hours to 90 90 hydrogenation of the unsaturation. The following Table I compares various properties of typical unhydrogenated polybutadienes, both low and high vinyl, with the corresponding hydrogenated products and also with commercial polybutene l Unhydrogenated Hydrogenated Low High Low High Vinyl Vinyl Commercial Vinyl Vinyl 10 97 100 Polybutene l 10 97 100 Type ofProduct Rubbery Rubbery Plastic Plastic RubberyGreenStrength None Poor Good Good Very GoodTack None 1 ib. None 12 18 lbsOzone High Oxidizes Low re Very reReaction Fast Crosslinks action sistantTg 50 30 to 1000C to OOC . 250C Mo.Wt. 250,000 250,000 250,000 250,000Tensile Poor 300 400 800 900Strength psi psiElas Good Good None Poor Good ticityUse Tires Plastics Plastics Plastics Tires AdhesivesTm None 135 C 90 1000C None The following Table II shows a comparison of the tack for two polymers of comparable molecular weight and compounded similarly with standard modifiers, one being a polybutadiene of about 95 , 1,2 microstructure and the other of 80.0 1,2, and both being hydrogenated to about the same degree. TABLE II A B 1,2 Content 8 95.5 80.0 Hydrogenated 89 87Wind up Tack lbs X vs. X 13 4 0 vs. 0 13 4.4Average 13 4.2 The hydrogenated polymers of this invention have been found to be an excellent substitute in tire compositions for the relatively expensive natural rubber. For example a series of experiments are performed using six individual samples of hydrogenated polybutadiene, the polybutadiene having 99 122 content and hydrogenation is effected on 95 of the unsaturation.Six samples of the hydrogenated polymer are used, varying in molecular weight from 67000 to 3502000o The formulation comprises 60 parts by weight of hydrogenated high vinyl polybutadieneg 20 parts by weight of emulsion prepared styrene butadiene rubber SBR and 20 parts by weight of solution prepared styrene butadiene rubber SBR D together with standard modifiers such as carbon black, ZnO, stearic acid, sulfur, etc. A control is also tested in which 60 parts by weight of natural rubber is used in place of the hydrogenated polybutadiene. In running the comparrative tests the green stock is aged 5 days in each case. These comparative tests show the following results 1. The green strength properties of the hydrogenated polybutadienes increase with increase in molecular weight and compare favorably with the control. 2. Young s Modulux index YMI , a measure of wet traction, shows an improvement of the hydrogenated polybutadiene compositions over the control. 3. The rebound test shows an improvement in hysteresis as the molecular weight of the hydrogenated polybutadiene increases. 4. The strain strain property increases with increase in molecular weight of the hydrogenated polybutadiene. 5. The aging properties are generally good as compared to the control. 6. The ring tensile cure at 3000F to 100 modulus at 30 minutes is better than the natural rubber control. 7. Tensile strength of the hydrogenated polybutadiene is better than that for the natural rubber control. 8. The elongation of the hydrogenated polybutadiene is the same as for the natural rubber control. 9. The windup tack are approximately equivalent, 15 for the control and 14.5 for the hydrogenated polybutadiene. 10. The elongation is the same, 1250 for the control and 1250 for the hydrogenated polybutadiene. Moreover, the air impermeability of the hydrogenated high vinyl polybutadiene is excellent and is as good as butyl rubber. For example, in comparable formulations with SBR, the hydrogenated polybutadiene formulations give an air permeability value corrected to 0CC at 7 760 mm of 2.720 to 3.0 x 10 which can be compared with the value of 1.17 x 10 7 for the butyl rubber control. The hydrogenated products of this invention are particularly compatible and suitable for blending with polypropylene, polyethylene and polymers of other alphaolefines to produce thermoplastic elastomers having excellent aging properties, ozone resistance and paint adhesion. Thermoplastic elastomers are elastomers which may be readily processed, extruded or molded byconven tional thermoplastic methods and attain desirable physical properties without the necessity of vulcanization. Satisfactory blending of the products of this invention with alpha olefin polymers is particularly surprising in view of the fact that unhydrogenated polybutadiene, when blended with polypropylene and other polymeric alpha olefins, gives materials having poor properties Advantageously, in preparing these blends the polymeric alpha olefin has a melting point of at least 900C and this material is used in a proportion of about 15 48 by weight of the resulting blend. These blends may be prepared by mixing the respective materials and heating the mixture to a temperature above the melting point of the polymeric alpha olef in. The resulting blend may be reprocessed at any time by repeating the heating above the melting point of the polymeric alpha olefin. Advantageously the polymeric alpha olefin should be predominantly of isotactic configuration with a melt flow index of about 0o4 30 preferably about 2 12 ASTM No. Dip238 . As much as 15 atactic configuration in the polymeric alpha olefin may be tolerated without adverse effect on the resulting products. The polymeric alpha olefin is preferably derived from propylene but may also comprise polymers or copolymers of monomers having 2 8 carbon atoms, such as ethylene, l butene, l pentene, l hexene, 1 heptene, l octene, l nonene, 4 methyl pentene l, 3 methyl hexene l, 5 methylheptene l, etc. Advantageously the comonomers used in making the copolymers are other alpha olefins. In any case, the polymers and copolymers are such as to have melting points above 900C and to be predominantly of isotactic configuration. The melting point for polypropylene is advantageously about lS0 175 C, preferably 1600C. For polyethylene, the melting point range is advantageously about l27 l400C, preferably about 1359C. To facilitate the mixing or blending of the components it is desirable that the polymeric alpha olefin is used in particulate form, advantageously in sizes of at least 1 micron and preferably of at least 5 microns or even larger. The blending is advantageously effected on a mill or other conventional equipment such as Banbury,Brabender, screw extruder, etc. While certain features of this invention have been described in detail with respect to various embodiments thereof, it will of course be apparent that other modifications can be made within the spirit and scope of this invention, and it is not intended to limit the invention to the exact details shown above except insofar as they are defined in the following claims.