# N denitration of N,2,6 trinitroanilines with phase transfer catalysts.

## Abstract
A method for the N denitration of secondary N,2,6 trinitroanilines with phase transfer catalysts selected from quaternary ammonium salts.

## Claims
We claim 1. A process for the N denitration of a compound of formula EMI9.1 wherein R is C1 C6 alkyl, C4 C6 cycloalkyl, C1 C4 monohaloalkyl or C1 C4 alkoxy C2 C4 alkyl Y is C1 C4 alkyl, halogen or CF3 X is hydrogen, halogen, C1 C4 alkyl, C1 C4 alkoxy, C1 C4 monohaloalkyl or C1 C4 alkoxy C1 C4 alkyl comprising reacting the compound with 0.15 to 2.5 molar amount of a phase transfer catalyst of tetra n butylam monium salt, tricapryl methylammonium salt, benzyl trimethylammonium salt or benzyl triethylammonium salt in the presence of a water immiscible solvent of ethylene dichloride, chloroform, monochlorobenzene or carbon tetrachloride and in the presence of an aqueous solution of an alkali metal hydroxide or carbonate or ammonium hydroxide in amounts sufficient to maintain at least pH 7 throughout the reaction and wherein the thus obtained two phase reaction mixture is agitated at reflux until the reaction is essentially complete. 2. A process according to Claim 1 wherein R is C3 C6 alkyl, Y is C1 C3 alkyl or CF3, X is hydrogen, CH3 or CH3 OCH 3. A process according to Claim 2 wherein the compound is N l ethylpropylN ,2 ,6 trini tro3 ,4 xylidine. 4. A process according to Claim 3 wherein the phase transfer catalyst is benzyl triethylammonium chloride, the solvent is ethylene dichloride, and the base is sodium hydroxide. 5. A process according to Claim 4 wherein the phase transfer catalyst used in 1.0 to 1.2 molar amounts. 6. A process according to Claim 2 wherein the solvent is monochlorobenzene.

## Description
N DENITRATION OF N,2,6 TRINITROANILINES WITH PHASE TRANSFER CATALYSTS The invention provides a procedure for the rapid elimination of a nitro group attached to the amino function of a secondary trinitroaniline of formula I in order to facilitate the removal of the nitro group from nitration mixtures obtained during the preparation of herbicidal dinitroaniline compounds of formula II both schematically illustrated below EMI1.1 herein R is C1 C6 alkyl straight chain, or preferably branched, especially secondary alkyl , C4 C6 cycloalkyl, C1 C4 monohaloalkyl or C1 C4 alkoxy C2 C4 alkyl Y is C1 C4 alkyl, halogen or CF3 X is hydrogen, halogen, C1C4 alkyl, C1 C4 alkoxy, C1 C4 monohaloalkyl or C1 C4 alkoxy Cl C4 alkyl wherein the above denitration procedure comprises reacting the formula I compound with a phase transfer catalyst in the presence of an aqueous solution of a strong base, as hereinbelow discussed and described in detail. Among the compounds represented by formulae I and II , a preferred group of compounds are those wherein R is C3 C6 alkyl straight chain, or preferably a secondary alkyl Y is C1 C3 alkyl or CF3 X is hydrogen, CH3 or CH30CH2. The most preferred compounds of formulae I and II are those wherein R is l ethylpropyl Y is methyl or isopropyl X is methyl or methoxymethyl. The compounds of formula I are obtained as the unwanted by products of nitration reactions designed to prepare the herbicidal dinitroanilines of formula II . It should be noted here that, in the course of the above referred to nitration reactions, N nitroso dinitroanilines of formula IV are formed too. The above referred to nitration reaction is hereinbelow schematically illustrated EMI2.1 The unwanted by products of this reaction are EMI2.2 wherein in the above reaction scheme, R, X and Y are as hereinabove defined and V and W are both hydrogen, or if only one of them is hydrogen, then the other must be nitro. The compounds of formula III may be nitrated conveniently by dissolving same in an inert water immiscible solvent, such as ethylene dichloride, chloroform, carbon tetrachloride, monochlorobenzene, and the like, and preferably ethylene dichloride, and monochlorobenzene, and then the solution is added to a stirred nitration mixture consisting of nitric acid and sulfuric acid at a rate designed to control the ensuing exothermic reaction within the desired temperature limits. On completion of the reaction, the organic phase is separated. This phase contains in addition to the desired herbicides of formula II the N nitro I and N nitroso N dinitroaniline impurities. Obviously, formation of compounds of formulae I and 1V results in lower yields of the desired formula II herbicidal dinitroanilines.Advantageously, the formula IV impurities may be reconverted by chemical means to the desired formula II products, and, consequently, the yield of these herbicides II can be improved. More important , however, the fact that these unwanted impurities, especially of formula it , may be either completely eliminated from, or at least lowered to acceptable levels in the products II . Thus, it is known that formula IV nitroso compounds may be denitrosated with sulfamic acid to the corresponding formula II pesticides either by treating the nitration mixture or the isolated organic phase with suifamic acrid This denitrosation reaction may be carried out, however, more advaneageously by the method of United States Patent No. 4,137,917, issued January 16, 1979 Assigne. American Cyanamid Company , incorporated herein by way of reference, and illustrated in Example 5. It should be noted here, that the thermal decomposition of formula I N nitroanilines may also result in the formation of formula IV N nitrosoanilines, as illustrated below EMI3.1 wherein R, X and Y are as hereinabove defined. The significance of this exaction is in that after the N nitroso compounds of formula IV have been rnoved from the above discussed nitration mixture or the product isolated therefrom, any formula I N nitroaniline present in either the organic phase of the nitration mixture or in the product isolated therefrom, may thermally deeompose and regenerate this undesirable contaminant IV . The N denitration of secondary N nitroamines is known to take place when these compounds are heated in aqueous potassium hydroxide. We find, however, that this denitration does not proceed at an acceptable rate with the N,2,6 trinitroanilines of formula I of the present invention. Advantageously, by the novel method of the present invention,N nitroanilines of formula I may be removed from the abovesaid nitration mixtures or the products isolated therefrom with bases in the presence of phase transfer catalysts. Thus, the separated organic phase of a nitration mixture comprising a solution of compounds of formulae I , II and V in a solvent, such as ethylene dichloride, chloroform, carbon tetrachloride, monochlorobenzene, and the like, preferably ethylene dichloride, is first denitrosated by the method of United States Patent No. 4,134,917 and is then mixed with a phase transfer catalyst selected from tetraalkyl phosphonium salts such as tetra n butyl phosphonium chloride or acetate, or from quaternary ammonium salts such as tetra n butylammonium salts, tricapryl methylammonium salts, benzyl trimethylammonium salts, benzyl triethylammonium salts, and the like, wherein said quaternary ammonium salts are the chlorides, bromides and iodides, and are used in amounts of from about 0.15 mole to about 2.5 moles, and preferably 1.0 mole to 1.2 moles per mole of said formula I compound, and then an aqueous base, selected from sodium or potassium hydroxide or carbonate, ammonium hydroxide or carbonate, is added in amounts sufficient to maintain a pH of 7 or more throughout the reaction.The resulting two phase mixture is rapidly agitated at reflux by suitable means for a period of from 5 to 60 minutes, or until the reaction is essentially complete, and the amount of formula I compound originally present in said mixture is reduced to zero or to an acceptable level. Next, the two phases are separated, and the desired herbicidal 2,6dinitroaniline of formula II is recovered from the organic phase. Thus, for instance, 200 g of the organic phase of a nitration reaction, from which the Ngl ethylpropyl 2,6 initro N nitroso 3,4 xylidine has been removed by the denitrosation method of United States PatentNo. 4,134,917 and now comprises a solution of f20 g of N l ethylpropylt 2,6 dinitro 3,4 xylidine and 0.3 g of N l ethylpropyl N,2,6 trinitro 3,4 xylidine in 80 g of ethylene dichloride is mixed with 20 g of 10 sodium hydroxide solution and 0.36 g of benzyl triethylammonium chloride. The resulting two phase reaction mixture is agitated rapidly by suitable means and heated at reflux for one hour, diluted with water, the organic phase separated, and the product isolated by standard laboratory procedures. The isolated product is found to be free of the corresponding formula I nitramine. The invention of the present application is further demonstrated by the following non limiting examples. EXAMPLE 1 Deni tration of Ngl Ethylpropyl N,2,6 trinitro 3,4 xylidine. A solution of Nglethylpropyl 2,6 dinitro 3,4 xylidine 120 g and N l ethylpropylN,2,6 trinitro3,4 xylidine 0.3 g in ethylene dichloride 80 g is mixed with 10 sodium hydroxide solution 20 g and benzyl triethyl ammonium chloride 0.36 g . The reaction mixture is stirred and heated at reflux for one hour. Water 100 g is added, the phases are separated, and the aqueous phase washed with ethylene chloride 2 x 50 ml . The organic phase and washings are combined, and the solvent evaporated under vacuum to afford 120.59 g solid.By analysis, this solid contains 97.6 by weight of N l ethylpropyl 2 ,6dinitro 3 , 4 xylidine, 600 ppm of N l ethylpropyl N,26 trinitro3,4 xylidine and 60 ppm of N l ethylpropyl 2 ,6 dinitro N nitroso 3,4 xylidine EXAMPLE 2Denitration of N l Ethylpro pylYN 92 96 trinitro3 ,4 xylidine. To the isolated organic phase of a nitration mixture comprising a solution of NAl ethylpropyl 2 , 6dinitro3,4 xylidine a , N l ethylpropyl X,2,6 trinitro 3,4 xylidine b , and N l ethylpropylt2,6 dinitro N nitroso 3,4 xylidine c , in ethylene dichloride weight of solution 22.2 kg , is added a 15 aqueous sodium hydroxide solution 1.25 kg and benzyl triethylammonium chloride 0.136 kg , and the mixture is stirred and heated at reflux for 2 hours Next, water 11.32 kg is added, the mixture stirred, and the two phases are then separated. A sample of the organic phase is taken and evaporated to dryness under vacuum, and the solid residue analyzed.The data obtained are compared to those obtained by analyzing the solids isolated from the above referred to organic phase of a nitration mixture, and are shown below AnalysisEMI5.1 tb Compound SEP Start SEP End tb SEP a SEP 911 SEP 93.3 tb SEP b SEP 7368 SEP ppm SEP 3 SEP ppm tb SEP c SEP 130 SEP ppm SEP 103 SEP ppm tb It can be clearly seen from the above data, that the novel process of the present invention effectively removes the unwanted N nitro compound b from the crude reaction mixture. EXAMPLE 3Denitration of N 1 Ethylpropyl N ,2,6 trinitro 3 ,4 xylidine. A solution of N 1 ethylpropyl 2,6 dinitro 3,4 xylidine a , N 1 ethylpropyl N ,2 , 6 trinitro3 ,4 xylidine b , and N l ethylpropyl 2,6 dinitro N nitroso 3,4 xylidine c in ethylene dichloride weight of solution 200 g , is mixed with a 10 aqueous solution of potassium hydroxide 20 g and benzyl triethylammonium chloride 0.3164 g . The reaction mixture is stirred, heated to reflux in about 20 minutes and refluxed for one hour. Hot water 100 g at 820 C is added, the mixture stirred for 5 minutes, and then the phases are separated. The thus obtained organic phase is analyzed, and the data obtained are compared to those obtained by analyzing the solution prior to the denitration of same with the above base and phase transfer catalyst. AnalysisEMI6.1 tb Compound SEP Start SEP End tb SEP a SEP 58.6 . SEP not SEP determined tb SEP b SEP 1065 SEP ppm SEP 2 SEP ppm tb SEP c SEP 9 SEP ppm SEP 9 SEP ppm tb EXAMPLE 4Denitration of Ngl Ethylpropyl N,2,6 trinitro 3,4 xylidine. The experiment of Example 3 is repeated twice, using samples of the same solution, except that no benzyl triethylammonium chloride is added to the reaction mixtures. On completion of the reactions, the mixtures are worked up as in Example 3, and analyzed for Ngl ethylpropyl 2,6 dinitro 3,4 xylidine a , Ngl ethylpropyl N,2,6 trinitro 3,4 xylidine b , and N l ethylpropyl 2, 6 dinitro N nitroso 3 ,4 xylidine c . The thus obtained analytical data are compared to the values obtained by analyzing the starting material used in these runs the starting material is the same as the one used in said Example 3 . AnalysisEMI6.2 SEP tb SEP Sample SEP SEP SEP a SEP SEP SEP b SEP ppm SEP c SEP ppm tb Starting SEP Material SEP 58.6 SEP 1065 SEP 9 tb SEP Run SEP I SEP not SEP 6111 SEP 12 tb SEP determined tb SEP Run SEP II SEP 61.0 SEP 646 SEP 10 tb EXAMPLE 5Denitrosation of N 1 Ethylpropyl 2,6 dinitro N nitroso 3,4 xylidine with Diethyl Ketone. A glass pressure reactor is charged with an ethylene chloride solution 96.0 g of N 1 ethylpropyl 2,6 dinitro 3,4 xylidine 38.2 by weight 36.7 g and Ngl ethylpropyl 2,6 dinitro N nitroso 3,4 xylidine 13.4 by weight 12.9 g , concentrated hydrochloric acid 14.7 g and diethyl ketone 2.5 g , and the reactor is then sealed. The reaction mixture is heated to 80 85 C and stirred for 4 hours while the temperature is maintained at 80 88 C. The pressure increases within the vessel to a maximum of 1.68 kg cm2 and then slowly decreases to 1.26 kg cm2 in the course of the reaction. On completion of the reaction, the reactor is cooled down, vented, the pH of the reaction mixture adjusted to 10 with 10 sodium hydroxide and filtered.The filtercake is washed several times with ethylene di chloride, the organic layer separated, and the solvent removed under vacuum to afford 51.4 g of solid containing by analysis 93.3 by weight ofN 1 ethylpropyl 2,6 dinitro 3,4 xylidine 47.9 g and 0.01 by weight of N 1 ethylpropyl2 ,6 dinitro N nitroso 3 ,4 xylidine 0.51 g . EXAMPLE 6Preparation of N 1 Ethylpropyl 2,6 dinitro 3,4 xylidine. A nitration mixture is prepared by adding 70.5 nitric acid 145.2 g 1.625 mol and 94.5 sulfuric acid ll6.2 g 1.12 mol to water 58.8 g . To the above mixed acid, a solution of 94.6 pure N 1 ethylpropyl 3,4 xylidine 101.0 g 0.5 mol in ethylene chloride 143.5 ml is added over a period of 2 hours at 350 C. The reaction mixture is stirred at 350 C for one hour, and the aqueous phase is then separated. The organic phase is washed successively with 5 sodium hydroxide 300 ml and water 300 ml and is then dried over magnesium sulfate. The organic solution is then concentrated under vacuum at 700 C to yield 141.5 g of a solid containing 117.0 g 72.6 of title product. By the above procedure, but substituting monochlorobenzene for ethylene dichloride, the title product is obtained in similar yields and purity. EXAMPLE 7Denitration of N 1 Ethylpropyl N,2,6 trinitro 3,4 xylidine. The separated organic phase of a nitration mixture obtained by the procedure of Example 6, wherein the solvent of said organic phase is monochlorobenzene, is first denitrosated by the procedure of Example 5, and is then denitrated by the procedure of Example 2. The organic phase is analyzed before and after the denitration reaction. The data obtained are shown below AnalysisEMI8.1 tb Compound SEP Start SEP End tb SEP b SEP 1000 SEP ppm SEP 65 SEP ppm tb SEP 2 SEP ppm SEP tb SEP c SEP 20 SEP ppm SEP 6 SEP ppm SEP tb SEP 7 SEP ppm SEP tb In 30 minutes at 700C. After an additional 30 minutes at 87 C. A second experiment, performed as above, yields the following data AnalysisEMI8.2 tb Compound SEP Start SEP End tb SEP b SEP 2750 SEP ppm SEP 2 SEP ppm tb SEP 2 SEP ppm SEP tb SEP c SEP 42 SEP ppm SEP 14 SEP ppm SEP tb SEP 14 SEP ppm tb In 30 minutes at 700C. After an additional 30 minutes at 87 0C. In the above Examples, b and c have the same definition as inExample 2.