# Water absorbent starch copolymerisates and method for their preparation.

## Abstract
Water absorbent, starch copolymerisates which comprise a non linear lattice of starch chains linked together by polymeric linkages represented by the formula

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A water absorbent starch copolymerisate characterised in that it comprises the copolymerisat product of ethylenically unsaturated starch molecules and ethylenically unsaturated monomers with the ethylenically unsaturated monomers forming a connective polymeric linkage between the copolymerised starch molecules to provide a non linear lattice of a plurality of starch chains linked together by polymeric linkages represented by the formulaEMI33.1 wherein Starch represents a starch chain of D glucose units, Z represents an organo group which links theEMI33.2 group to the carbon atom of the starch chain by a sulphur atom or an oxygen atom, R is hydrogen or a monovalent organic radical, M represents a plural copolymerlsed ethylenically unsaturated monomers p representing the number of copolymerised monomeri units in the linkage, W is a water attractant g i linked to the polymeric linkage and n represents , the number of W moieties contained within the polymer. linkage of the copolymerised monomers with the number of w moieties being sufficient to impart waterabsorbency properties to the copolymerisate. 2. A water absorbent starch copolymerisate as claimed in claIm 1 eharacterised in that the Z organic group consists essentially of aEMI33.3 group unu R is at least one hydrogen or mono organo joined directly to the nitrogen atom by a monovaler bond. 3. A water absorbent starch copolymerisate as claimed in claim 1 or 2 characterised in that the ethylenicallyunsaturated starch molecules consist essentially of starch molecules and appendant ethylenic unsaturated ropes of a molecular weight ranging from greater than 50 to less than 300 and the degree of substitution of the ethylenically unsaturated appendant groups ranges from about 0.002 to about 0.1, and w is at least one anion, cation, nonion or zwitterion. 4. A water absorbent starch copolymerisate as claimed in any of claims 1 to 3 characterised in that the weight of ethylenically unsaturated monomer in the copolymerisate ranges from about 10 to about 1000 parts by weight for each 100 parts by weight of copolymerised ethylenically unsaturated starch and from about 25 ,0 to about 100 osb of the copolymerised ethylenically unsaturated monomer contains the W substituent. 5. A water absorbent starch copolymerisate as claimed in any of claims 1 to 4 characterised in that the copolymerised ethylenically unsaturated starch consists essentially of amylopectin hydrolysate with a degree of substitution of the starch ethylenic unsaturated groups ranging from about 0.005 to about 0.05. 6. A water absorbent starch copolymerisate as claimed in any of claims 1 to 5 characterised in that the copolymerised ethylenically unsaturated star.ch consists essentially of an acrylamide starch having a D.S. ranging from about 0.005 to about 0.05 and a D.E. ranging from about 0.25 to about 15, and in that the copolymerisate contains 100 parts by weight copolymerised ethylenically unsaturated sta rch hydrolysate, from about 100 to about 750 parts copolymerised ethylenically unsaturated monomer which contain W groups and fromO to about 200 parts by weight of copolymerised ethylenically unsaturated monomers devoid of V groups. 7. A method for preparing a water absorbent starch copolymerisate, characterised in that the copolymeri comprises a Jurality of starch chains linked together by polymeric linkages represented by the formula EMI35.1 in which Starch represents a starch chain of D glucope units, Z represents an organo group which links theEMI35.2 group to the carbon atom of the starch chain by a sulphur atom or an oxygen atom, R is hydrogen or a monovalent organic radical, A represents a plurality of copolymerised ethylenically unsaturated monomers with contain a sufficient number of w groups to impart water absorbency to the copolymerised product, p1 represents the number of copolymerised ethylenically unsaturated monomers linking together the starch onnlies. and further characterised. In that the method comp. copolymerising a starch chains containing appendant, termina ethylenic unsaturated groups represented the formula EMI35.3 wherein Starch, Z and H are as defined above. and a represents the degree of s1bsti j ic of the terminal unsaturated groups on tne starch chain, and b ethylenically unsaturated monomers represented the formula EMI35.4 wherein M represents an ethylen monomer, W represents at least one water attractant group or a precursor 6 a water attractant group, and n is an integer with the proviso that when the copolymerised M W n monomer consists essentially of a precursor of the water attractant group, a sufficient number of the precursor groups are derivatised to a water attractant group to impart water absorbing properties to the starch copolymerisate. 8. A method as claimed in claim 7 characterised in that W is at least one water attractant group or a precursor of a water attractant group which is an anion, cation, nonion, or zwitterion, and that Z represents an organo group which links the CRH group to the starch chain by an oxy moiety. 9. A method as claimed in claim 7 or 8 characterised in that Z comprises an organo group represented by the formula EMI36.1 and R is at least one hydrogen atom or a mono organo group joined directly to the nitrogen atom by a monovalent bond. 10. A method as claimed in any of claims 7 to 9 characterised in that the appendant ethylenic unsaturated groups of the starch chains consist essentially of groups having a molecular weight ranging from about 75 to about 150 and a represents a degree of substitution ranging from about 0.002 to about 0.1. 11. A method as claimed in any of claims 7 to 10 characterised in that from about 25 Vo to 100 by weight of ethylenically unsaturated monomers contain the i Wt W group and that the ccpolymerised weight of ethylenically unsaturated monomer ranges from about 10 to about 1000 parts by weight ethylenically unsaturated monomer for each 100 parts by weight ethylenically unsaturated starch. 12. A method as claimed in any of claims 7 to 11 eharacterised in that the ethylenically unsaturated starch consists essentially of an acrylamido starch hydrolysate having a D.S. ranging from about 0.005 to about 0.10 and a D.E. ranging from about 0.25 to about 15, and that 100 parts by weight of the ethylenically unsaturated starch hydrolysate is copolymerised with from about 100 to about 750 parts copolymerised ethylenically unsaturated monomers free from W groups and from 0 to about 200 parts by weight ethylenically unsaturated monomers free from groups. 13. A method as claimed in any of claims 7 to 12 characterised in that the starch chains consist essentially of an amylopectin hydrolysate and W represents at least one anion or cation. 14. A method as claimed in any of claims 7 to 13 characterised in that it includes the additional steps of applying the unpolymerised ethylenically unsaturated starch and ethylenically unsaturated monomers to a substrate and thereafter copolymerisit in situ the applied starch and monomers.

## Description
WATER ABSORBENT STARCH COPOLYMERISATES This invention relates to water absorbent starch copo lymerisates. Within recent years, certain derivatised starches capable of absorbing and retaining large amounts of water have been developed. These derivatised starches are frequently referred to as water absorbent starches .In U.S. Patent Nos. 3,935,099 and 3,997,484 both byWeaver et al. , starch polymers which reportedly absorb more than 1,000 times their own weight are disclosed.These water absorbent starches are generally prepared by grafting polyacrylonitrile to starch molecules and then derivatising the polyacrylonitrile chains to anions.The grafting is accomplished by free radical catalysis e.g., ceric or irradiation . The starch grafting process is difficult to control and time consuming.The achievement of a critical grafting level is an essential prerequisite for a water absorbent, end product.A series of derivatisation and neutralisation steps are typically used to convert the nitrile group to anions and a water absorbent starch product. This contaminates the product with salt. The water absorbency properties of these salt contaminated starches are seriously impaired when they are used in aqueous solutions which contain trace amounts of salts and minerals. It is also difficult to achieve uniform and reproducible water absorbency results. This apparently arises from difficulties in controlling the reaction. These water absorbent starch compositions are also deficient in certain other properties which are essential and desirahle for many end usages e.g., lack adhesisreness9 preCabricvation and shaping, film forming, bonding ceating5 etc. properties .This generally restricts their usage to limited areas of application e.g., separately contained by a waterpermeable enclosure or separately added or mixed to another substrate . In addition, these water absorbent starches Cannot be effectively used at high solid coating levens to be readily affired or bonded to a carrier or substrate or easily provided in a preformed shape. United States patent No. 3,661, 315 by Smith also diascloses analogous water absorbent starches wich are prepared by saponifying starch polyacrylonitrile graft deriva tives with certain alkali netal baseas. These water absorbent starch grafts reportedly absorb more than 50 times their weight of water. Tile Smith process and products suffer from similar deficiencies as mentioned above with respect to Weaver et al. There is a need in the art to more easily acid effectively prepare water absorbent starch compositions under conditions which provide greater uniformity and end product reproducibility. eater tolerande ano compatibility with aqueous solutions containig salt and mineral contaminants is also required. Even more imüportant, is the development of a water absorbent starch which can be easily bonded or affixed to a substrate or preformed. Such a water absorbent starch would considerably expand upon the versatilIty and usage of water absorbent aterches by the trade. An object of the inventIon is to provide a simple and reproducible method for preparing water absorbent staren compositions. Another object is to obtain water heorpent starch compositions which in comparison to existing water absorbent starches have improved verestility, utility and functional properties. A further object is to provide a method for applying or effixing, water absorbent starches to carriers or substrates or preparing preformed products and the products thereof. According to the rent onvention there s provided water absorbent starch copolymerisate which is capable for absorbing several times ist own weight of water, the starch copolymerisate oomprising the cot oly erisate product of ethylenically unsaturated starch molecules and ethylenically unsaturated monomers with the ethylenically unsaturated monomers forming a connective polymeric linkage between the copolymerised starch molecules to provide a non linear lattice of a plurality of starch chains linked together by polymeric linkages represented by the formula EMI3.1 wherein Starch represents a starch chain of D glucose units, Z represents an organo group which links theEMI3.2 group to the carbon atom of the starch chain by a sulphur atom or an oxygen atom, R is hydrogen or a monovalent organic radical, M represents a plurality of copolymerised ethylenically unsaturated monomers with p representing the number of copolymerised monomeric units in the linkage, W is a water attractant group or a hydrophilic moiety such as an anion,,cation, non ion, amphoteric, zwitterion or amphiphilic moiety or a mixture thereof linked to the polymeric linkage and n represents the number of W moieties contained within the polymeric linkage of the copolymerised monomers with the number of w moieties being sufficient to impart water absorbency properties to the copolymerisate. The water absorbent starches or their precursors may be prepared by a copolymerisation process which comprises copolymerising a starch chains containing appendant, terminal ethylenic unsaturated groups represented by the formula EMI4.1 wherein Starch, Z and R are as defli ed above and 11a represents the degree of substitution of the terminal unsaturated groups on the starch chain, and b ethylenically unsaturated monomers represented by the formula EMI4.2 wherein M represents an ethylenically unsaturated monomer, i2 W represents at least one water attractant group or a precursor thereof, and n is an integer to provide a cross linked lattice of 2 pl plurality of starch chains linked together by polvmeric linkages representedEMI4.3 wherein the Starch, Z, R, W and n are as defined above, M represents a plurality of copolymerised ethylenically unsaturated monomers which contain a sufficient number of W or W precursors within the polymeric linkage to impart water absorbency to the copolymerised product, and P represents the number of copolymerised ethylenically unsaturated monomers between juxtapositional starch chains. In the copolymerisation process, a wide variety of monomers may be used to prepare the water absorbent starch of this invention. The value of e n hiegel and the particular W or W precursors which are used in the copolymerisation process may very considerably. Some of the monomers will comtain W or in precursors e. g., n has a value of 1 to 5 while others may be free from the W or w precursor moieties e.g., n is o . Similarly, the copolymerised monomers may be essentially comprised of monomers which contain the W or W precursors.In the aforementioned formula, WI may be comprised of an ethylenically unsaturated portion of an organic group of the same chemical composition, or a mixture of different copolymerised monomers in which theM group differs in composition Likewise, the W or precursors may be the same or different in type.The amount of W monomer or W monomer precursors copolymerised with the starch is maintained at a level sufficient to impart water absorbency to the copolymerised starch product. If W precursors are solely used, then it is necessary to convert a sufficient number of precursors to the water attractant form to achieve the desired waterabsorbent, starch copolymerisate product. In comparison to existing water absorbent starches, the present starch copolymerisates are more versatile and useful. They may be prefabricated from water soluble or water dispersible, modified or hydrolysed starches into high molecular weight and cross linked, waterabsorbent starch copolymerisates. In general, the ethylenically unsaturated starches used herein are most typically provided in a water soluble form or may be easily converted to such a form. This renders the present invention particularly applicable to prefabricating operations wherein water or aqueous systems are used to disperse, dissolve or plasticise the starch.The invention therefore is ideally suited for most prefabricating operations e.g., coating, moulding, casting, extrusion, drying, sheeting, printing, bonding, encapsulating, gelling, impregnating, laminating, plasticising, etc. wherein the starch is initially provided in a form most suitable for prefabrication e.g., liquid, pliable, mouldable, etc. and then preformed and converted into a solid object. When sterch position of the ethylenically unsaturated such obtains may be derived from a variety of staron furces, including cereal, leguminous, tuber starches, Ilustrative starches include tapioca, high nylose, sweet potato, waxy maize, canna, arrowroot, wheat, sorghum, waxy sorghum, waxy rice, soya, rice, pea, amylose or amylopectin fractions , combInations thereof and the like. The starch amylose content affects the temperature at which a starch will convert to a water dispersible or starch paste form. The high amylose starches typically require elevated temperatures and pressures e.g., extrusion, jet cooking, etc , for uniform dispersal into aqueous systems. in contrast, starches of a lower amylose content e. g., 30 amylose or less are more easily dispersed or pasted in water e.g., 500 to 700C .Prepasted or pregelled starches an an amylose content of less than 50 normally disperse auto water at an ambient temperature e. g., 23 C . For many prefabricates, it is advantageous to modify or alter the starch chain to achieve a more functional versatile starch product. This may be accomplished derivatising the starch chains, so that they contain ther substituents e.g., esters or ethers which may ain cationic, anionic, non ionic, amphoteric, etc. ups . The ethylenically unsaturated starches may be exioed in the pregelled or prepasted from or hydrolyse ige, chemical or enzymatic hydrolysis of granular or granular ethylencally unsaturated starches to move upon their dispersibility into aqueous systems enylenically unsaturated dextrins, maltodextrins and ther low viscosity imparting athylencally unsaturated hydrolysates e.g., D.E. 0,2 to 90 , are particulary al salted for coating applications.Such ethylenitally ted starch hydrolysates provide a means for flowing a high solids and low viscodity system whith part orlarly well suited for aqueous coating and prefabricating app1. icatlons. Modification, derivatisation or hydrolysis of such starches may be accomplished prior or after its derivatisation to the ethylenically unsaturated form. Ethylenically unsaturated starches which contain hydrophobic substituents may be used but will typically require a dispersant. Water miscible, organo dispersants such as alkanols e.g. methyl, ethyl, isopropyl, or butyl alcohol , polyhydric alcohols e.g. glycerol, ethylene glycol , ethers, e.g. methyl, ethyl or propyl ethers, etc. , ketones methyl ethyl ketone, ethyl ketone, etc. , as well as conventional anionic, nonionic and cationic surface active agents or emulsifiers e.g., see MeCutcheon s Detergents and Emulsifiers North American Edition 1975 may be used to facilitate their conversion to a more water dispersible form. It is usually advantageous to employ hydrophilic, ethylenically unsaturated starches which will uniformly disperse into water at temperatures above the starch gelation point without the aid of water miscible organo dispersants or surfactant systems. Hydrophilic starches characterised as yielding a centrifugal starch residue of less than 25 0 , preferably less than 10 Clo upon immersion in water one part ethylenically unsaturated starch 100 pbw water for one hour at temperatures above their gelation point and centrifugation at 103g s for 10 minutes are most suitably used to coating and prefabricating applications. Hydrophilic ethylenically unsaturated starches containing pendant ethylenically unsaturated groups with polar moieties or substituents to impart hydrophilicity to the unsaturated portion of te starch molecule e.g hydroxy, carboxy, amide, car eamyl, suipnoamyl, imido, sulphoamino, thio, thiolamino, oxy, thiocarbonyl, sulphonyl, carbonyl, sulphoamido, quaternary ammonium halides, the alkali or ammonium salts are especially bugeful, The water dispersaible, ethylenically unsaturated taxches berein may be preparated by a variety of starch eesivatisation processes.Derivatisation recesses nich may be used to produce appendant, monoethylenically unsaturated groups include reacting alkali metal starch or hydroxyethylated starch salts with an alkyl propiolate to provide carboxylated vinyl starch ether reacting starch with ethylenically unsaturated organic carboxylip anhydrides e.g., methacrylic anhydride, etc or organic allyl halides e.g., allyl bromides, ally chloroformates, etc ., or epoxides e.g., butadiene monoxides, etc. to provide ethylenicaily unsaturated starch esters or ethers.The most suitable monoethylenic unsaturated starches are the starch esters of alpha, beta ethylenically unsaturated carboxylic acids e.g., acrylate methacrylate, crotonate, citraconate, itaconate starch esters as well Thr alkali salts and amides thereof, mixtures thereof and the like N allyl carbamate starch esters e.g., EMI8.1 glycidyl metharcrylate and glycidyl acrylate starch ethers e.g., ses U.S.PatentNo. 3,448,089 allyl starch ethers e.g., allyl, isopropenyl, etc. the allyl alkyl starch ethers e.g., ethyl, propyl, butyl, etc. starch ethers and the ally hylene oxide starch ethers allyloxyalkly starch ethers a.g., the allyl oxyethyl, oxynrosyl and oxybutyl, tc. starch ethers allyloxy hydroxyalkly starch e.g., poallyloxy 2 hydroxy propyl starch, etc. starch carylamides, etc. combinations thereof and the like. In a more limited embodiment of the invention, the ethylenically unsaturated starches comprise hose tarches which will readily and uniformly copolymerise th the bridging comonomers. Ethylenically unsaturated terches which contain polar groups immediately aditional to the unsaturated group and which activate the copolymerisability of the double bonds in the presence of free radical initiating systems are particularly well suited for this purpose.Such ethylenically unsaturated starches may be represented by Formula III EMI9.1 wherein starch is a starch chain of D glucose units, E represents an activating polar group juxtapositional to the ethylenic unsaturation, D is sulphur or oxygen,Q.is an organo group which divalently joins the D group to the activating polar group, R represents a monovalent group and a represents the D.S. i.e., the number of appendant ethylenic unsaturated groups per anhydroglucose unit of said starch chain . Typical juxtapositional activating polar groups i.e., E include carbonylEMI9.2 thiocarbonylEMI9.3 groups and the like.The ethylenically unsaturated portion of the starch chains are most typically comprised of appendant groups which individually have a molecular weight of less than 500 with those having an appendant molecular weight of greater than 50 but less than 300 preferably from 75 to about 150 M., being most typical. In a more preferred embodiment of the invent ion, theE group containsEMI9.4 radical, R is a hydrogen atom or a mono organo group which is joined directly to the nitrogen atom by a monovalent bond. In Formula III, Q may be any divalent organo group which joins the activating radical to the starch chain e.g., linked to D and aerylamlue nitrogen atoms via carbon linkages . The starch oxygen or sulphur atom and activating radical may be directly linked together by a single carbon atom or by an organo group which is Numethylol acrylamida whersin r und represent monovalent group.Substituted acrylamides which contai a reactive N methylol group linked to the acrylamide nitrogen atoms by intervening divalent a organo groups end starches containing cationic and anionic or ionic acrylamide substituents may be obtained y etherifying a starch with the appropriate N methylol corylamide e.g sodium 2 N methylol acrylamido 2 methylpropenesulphonate, a N methylol acrylamide quaternary ammonium ia ida such as 3 N methylol acrylamido 3 methyl butyl trimethyl ammonium chloride, etc. .Representative R s stltuents in V above include hydrogen, N arylol, the N alkylamines and N arylamines such as N methylol N ethylN n butyl N isobutyl N n dodecyi n octadecyl N cyclohexyl N phenyl N 2 hydroxy 1, 1 dimethylproply N p hydroxybenzyl N 3 hydroxybutyl N 4 hydroxy 3,5dimethylbenzyl N 3 hydroxy 1 1dimethyl N 2 hydroxy1,1 dimethylethyl N 2 hydroxyethyl N 5 hydroxyl naphthyl combinations thereof. and le Like. Illustrative acrylamide reactants B include N methylol amd N thiomethyl acrylamides such as N hydroxymethyl acrylamide N hydroxymethyl N 1 hydroxymethyl propyl acrylamide N hydroxymethyl 2 alklyl acrylamides, 3.g., N hydroxymethyl 2 methyl heptyl acrylamide n 1 hydroxymethyl 1 nonyl 2 methyl acrylamide N 1nydroxymethyl 2 methyl acrylamide N hydroxymethyl propyl acrylamide etc. . N mercaptomethyl acrylamide.N methylol N isopropyl acrylamide 3 N methylol acrylamido 3 methyl butyl trimethyl ammonium chloride cationic sodium 2 N methylol acrylamido 3 methyl propane sulphonate anionic CH2 C H C 0 N CH2 C CH3 2 CH2SO3 Na , combinations thereor and the alke. Reaction V may be suitably conducted in the no once of known acid or acid generating catalysts e.g., ammonium chloride or phosphate, mono ammonium acid phosphate, zinc chloride, etc. preferable at a temperature from about 700C to about 950U until the desired D.S. level is achieved. Conventional polymerisation inhibitors e.g., hydroquinone, its derivatives, 2,5 di t butylquinone, etc. prevent homopolymerisation of the starch acrylamide and acrylamide reactants. The starch acrylamides may be prepared via solution, slurry, dry, semi dry or other appropriate condensation processes. To prepare a starchacrylamide having a D.S. level of 0.03 or higher, it is desirable to uniformly disperse the acrylamide, acid or acid generating catalyst and polymerisation inhibitor throughout the starch reactant.Uniform dispersal of the N methylol acrylamide reactant, catalyst and polyicrisation inhibitor throughout the starch may be effectively accomplished by initially forming a starch slurry nr treating the starch with an absorbable dispersant media e.g., water in which the acrylamide, catalyst and polymerisation inhibitor are soluble or placed in mobile form and thereafter imbibing or absorbing the dispersant and its solutes into the starch granules. As more fully explained below, the most appropriate ethylenic unsaturates for optimum water absorbency will depend upon the starch chain type. An ethylenically unsaturated monogiucoside will typically require at least a D.S. of about 2.0 or more, whereas long chain starch chains e.g., unhydrolysed starch typically require a considerably lower D.S.. level e.g., 0.0002 to be water absorbent. Moreover, there exists a direct relationship between the D.S. for any given starch chain and the optimum water absorbency which may be achieved from the starch copolymerisate thereof. An. insufficient or excessive ethylenic unsaturation D.S. level will generq result in a copolymerisate having poor water absorbency properties. A D.S. deficiency will fail to provide the necessary multifunctional.polymerisation sites for the water absorbency materials. For a majority of starches opolymcrisate which is capable of whinc several times its own weight can e Typical l ained by conolymerising a starch which has an ethylenic insaturation ranging from about 0.002 D.S. to about .10 Higher ethylenic unsaturated D.S. levels e.g, O2 r higher will usually require more carefully controlled copolymerisation conditions with an appropriate proportion of ethylenically unsaturated monomers and type of monomer.Starch copolymerisates which typically absorb more than 10 times their weight in water are obtained from starches having an ethylenic unsaturation ranging from about 0.005 D.S. to about 0.05 i .S. For applications requiring a more highly water absorbant starch e.g., greater than 100 times the starch dry weight , it is advantageous to use starch substrates Wilich contain appendant ethylenic unsaturation at a level ranging from about 0.005 D.S. to about 0.01 D.S. The starch copolymerisate water absorbency properties are directly related to its lattice i.e., molecular configuration and its ionic hydrophilicity. characteristics of the starch chain and the alymeric linkages formed by the interpolymerised thylenically unsaturated monomers primarily dictate c copolymerisate lattice structure. Failure to hieve proper polymeric linkage or bridging between pach molecules will adversely affect the waterabsorbency properties of the starch copolyluerisate cessively long polymeric monomer linkages tend to ssult in an excessively open structure which adversely affects the water absorbency character of the starch copolymerisate lattice.Conversely, excessive cross inking e.g., high D.S. ethylenically unsaturated starch or an insufficient amount of copolymerised e.g., very short linkages between starch calcules tend to create a closed lattice and concomitant os water absorbency. The net ionic charge of tile copolymerisate in conjunction with its water porous lattice contributes to its water absorbtion and retention properties. Similarly, achievement of the optimum lattice and an insufficient ionic charge impairs its water absorbency.The combination of a proper lattice and a sufficient level of ionic charge to attract and absorb water molecules within its porous lattice provides maximum water absorbencyg In the water absorbent starch copolymerisate, the copolymerised ethylenic unsaturated monomers i.e., CtI pt of Formula I contain a sufficient number of hydrophilic substituents e.g., 4 W n of Formula I to impart waterabsorbency to the copolymerised starch product.Illustrative hydrophilic substituents include cationic, anionic, nonionic, ampholytic, zwitterionic, amphoteric moieties, mixtures thereof and the like. As mentioned above, it is unnecessary for each copolymerised monomeric unit to be a water attractant group. Thus, a significant portion of the polymeric chain units may be free from ionic substituents with the balance of the units providing a sufficient level of W substitution to render the starch copolymerisate water absorbent. The degree of W substitution necessary to achieve a water absorbent starch copolymerisate will depend upon a multiplicity of factors Factors such as the ionic charge and type of ionic substituents, proportions of ethylenically unsaturated starch to monomer, hydrophilicity and polarity of the copolymerised monomer units, etc. affect the required W substitution level.For most applicaticn, it is advantageous for the starch copolymerisate to contain either anionic or cationic substituents, A variety of conventional, ethylenically unsaturated monomers which either contain the water absorbt ve substituents or its precursors may be used to prepare the starch eopolymerisates herein. The polymeric linkages may be amphiphilic i.e., contain both polar insoluble and hydrophobic water insoluble grou nic monomers include ethylenically unsaturated comers which contain acid groups or acid salt groups or acid salt precursors. Exemplary anionic substituents include carboxylates, oxalates, benzoates, phosphonates, maleates, malates, phthalates, succinates, sulphate, sulphonates, tartrates, fumarates, mixtures thereof and the like.Illustrative ethylenically unsaturated cationic monomers include nitrogen containing cations such as primary, secondary and tertiary and quaternary ammonium compounds sulphur containing cationssuch as sulphonium salts, halides, etc. phosphorous containing cations such as phosphonium salts mixtures thereof and the like. Typical nitrogen containing cations include monomers represented by the formula M1 NR aRbRc Xwherein M represents an ethylenically unsaturated organo group, Ra Rb and R0 represents at tes one Thvdrogen atom or organo group, and X is an anion e.g.halide, acetate, CH3SO 4, C2H5SO 4, etc . Exemplary Ra,Rb and Rc mono organo groups include substituted and unsubstituted alkyl, monoheterocyclic e.g.peridine, morpholine, etc. , hydroxyalkly, aralkly, cycloalkly groups as well as cyclic and heterocyclic ,ups divalently bonded to the nitrogen atom e.g., 1a and Rb form a cyclic structure. The preferred nitrogen containing ethylenically unsaturated catioric monomers are the water soluble, monomeric salt3 such as he lower alkyls of 1 5 carbon atoms e.g. ethyl, ethyl, propyl polyoxyalkylene e.g. polyoxyethylene and polyoxypropylene , mixtures thereof and the like alkoxy e.g. methoxy, ethoxy, propoxy, etc. hydroxyalkly and polyhydroxyalkly e.g. hydroxyethyl, hydroxypropyl, dihydroxypropyl, dihydroxybutyl heterocyclic e.g. morpholine amines and amides bearing mono organics mixtures thereof and the like. Tie sulphur and phosphorus containing cationic monomers are similar to the aforementioned except either the phosphorous atom or sulphur atom replaces the nitrogen atom. The preferred phosphorus and sulphur cations are the phosphonium and sulphonium cationic salts. Water soluble, W ethylenically unsaturated monomers which contain an activating group adjacent to the ethylenic unsaturation e.g. wherein M contains a CH2 CR E radical with the activating group E and the R group being as defined above are preferred. Representative cationic monomers include the Nmethylol acrylamide reactants mentioned above, dimethylamino ethyl methacrylate t butylaminoethyl methacrylate 2 hydroxy 3 methacryloxypropyl trimethyl ammonium chloride allyl trimethyl ammonium chloride S allyl thiuronium bromide, S methyl allyl thiuronium methosulphate, diallyl dibutyl diammonium chloride, diallyl dimethyl ammonium methosulphate, dimethallyl diethyl ammonium phosphate.diallyl dimethyl ammonium nitrate, S allyl allylthiuronium bromide, N methyl 4 vinylpyridinium methosulphate, N methyl 2 vinylpyridinium methosulphate, allyl dimethyl beta methacryloxyethyl ammonium methosulphate, beta methacryloxymethyl trimethylammonium nitrate bet a methacryloxyethyl trimethylammonium p toiuene sulphonate, delta acryloxybutyl tributylammonium methosulphate, methally dimethyl 0 vinylphenyl ammoniumchloride, octyldiethyl m vinylphenyl ammonium phosphate, beta hydroxyethyl dipropyl p vinylphenyl ammonium bromide benzyl dimethyl 2 methyl 5 vinyl phenyl animonlum phoSnA 3 hydroxypropyl diethyl vinyl phenylammonium sulphate octadecyl dimethyl vinylphenyl ammonium p toluene sulphonate, amyl dimethyl 3 methyl 5 vinylphenyl ammonium thiocyanate, vinyloxyethyl triethyl ammonium chloride,N butyl 5 ethyl 2 vinylpyridinium iodide, N propyl 2 vinyl quinol inium methyl sulphate, N butyl 5 ethyl 3 Palladinium indide, N propyl 2 vinyl quinolixium de phane, allyl gamma myristamidopropyl dimethylphaniumchloride,methallyl gamma caprylamido propylmethyl ethyl ammonium bromide ally gamma canrylamidopropyl methylbenzyl ammonium phosphate, ethallylgamma myristamido propyl methyl alpha naphthylmethylammonium chloride, allyl gamma palmit amidopropyl ethyl hexyl ammonium sulphate methallyl gamma lauramidopropyl diamyl ammonium phosphate, propally gammalauramidopropyl diethyl ammonium phosphate, metflallyl gamma caprylamido propyl methyl beta hydroxyethylammonium bromide, allyl gamma stearamido propyl methyldihydroxypropyl ammonium phosphate, allyl gammalauramidopropyl benzyl beta hydroxyethyl ammonium chloride and methallyl gamma abietamidopropyl hexylgamma hydroxy propyl ammonium phosphate, vinyl diethylmethyl sulphonium iodide, ethylenically unsaturated nitrogen containing cations having the formulaCH2 CHQN R1R2R3 X such as disclosed in U.No. 3,346,563 by Shildneck et al. dth R1, It and X groups being defined as above, mixtures thereof r the like. Representative anionic monomers include vinyl sulphonic acid and vinyl sulphonates e.g. see U.S.Patent Nos, 3,970,604, by G. Wentworth and 2,859,191 7 Turnbull, etc. allyl sulphosuccinic acid and allyl sulphosuccinates e.h. see U.S. Patent Nos. 3,229,608 Ingleby et al. sulpho esters of alpha methylene carboxylic acids and salts thereof e.g. see U.S.Patent No. 3,024,221 by LeFevre et al. sulpho organic esters of fumaric and maleic acids and salt thereof e.g. see U.S. Patent No. 3,147,501 by Sheecz acids 3nd salts of sulphatoalkane acrylates and methacrylates .g see U.S. Patent Nos. 3,893,393 by Steckley n 3,711,449 by Brendley acrylamidoalkanesulphonic acid and salts e.g. see U.S.Patent No. 4,00s8,293 by Maska et al. and 3,946,139 by bleyle et al. , vinyl phosphonic acid and vinyl phosphonates alpha, betaethylenically unsaturated carboxylic acids, their salts e.g. acrylic acid, methacrylic acid, ethacrylic acid, propacrylic acid, butacrylic acid, itaconic acid, monoalkyl esters of itaconic acid, crotonic acid and crotonates, fumaric acid and fumarates, etc. , mixtures thereof and the like. The water absorbent starches may be prepared by initially copolymerising the starch with ethylenically unsaturated comonomers which contain reactive sites e.g.polar or unpolymerised ethylenic unsaturation which are then derivatised to W moieties. For example, the ethylenically unsaturated starches herein may be copolymerised with unsaturated precursors and converted to the anionic form such as by saponification to replace the alkyl ester group with a metal salt, and known techniques of derivatising organic compounds to acidic or the neutralised acid salt form. Preferably the starting monomers contain the hydrophilic structure or one which can be directly converted to its form by neutralisation. This will avoid the derivatisation step as well as the possibility of contaminating the copolymerisate with salts and minerals, and the need to wash and refine to remove such contaminants therefrom. The polymeric linkages between copolymerised starch chains may be comprised of interpolymerised ionic monomeric units and monomeric units free from tW substituents. The interpolymerised monomeric units free from N substituents may be selected from a broad range of ethylenicaíly unsaturated monomers. Uydrophil lc, and or hydrophobic comonomers may be used or this purpose. Illustrative interpolymerisect comonomers include vinyl aromatics e.g. styrene and styrene derivatives the alkyl esters of alpha, betaethylenically unsaturated acids the alpha, beta uzylaically unsaturated nitriles, alpha, heta chylenically unsaturated amides vinyl halides . ayl chloride and bromide , olefins such as mono nd di olefins vinylidene halide 3.5. vinyliden chloride and bromide , vinyl esters e.g. vinyl acetate and derivatives diesters of alpha beta ethylenically unsaturated dicarboxylic acids e dimethyl or diethyl itaconate, dimethyl or dimethyl maleate, diethyl or dimethyl fumarate, etc. alkyl vinyl hours such as methyl or ethyl vinyl ether, etc. alkyl vinyl ketones e.g. methyl vinyl ketone, etc. , mixtures thereof and the like. The polymeric linkages are advantageously predominantly comprised of polar or water soluble monomer units. Illustrative polar or water soluble comonomers free from W substituents which may be copolymerised with the W monomers and the starch include the hydroxyalkyl esters of alpha betaethylenically unsaturated carboxylic acids such as hydroxyethyl, hydroxyethoxyethyl, hydroxymethyl, 2 3dihydroxypropyl acrylates and methacrylates, di 2,3dihydroxypropyl fumarate, di hydroxyethyl itaconate ethyl hydroxyethylmaleate, hydroxyethyl crotonate, mixtures thereof and the like the lower ilkly esters of alpha, beta ethylenically unsaturated carboxylic acids e.g. C1 to C2 alkly ester of mono and dicarboxylic acid such as methyl and ethyl ester of acrylic betacrylic, itaconic, fumaric, crotonic, malais, nc. 3 methylamino propyl methacrylate 1 buryl aminoethyl methacrylate di methylaminoethyl methacrylate beta 5 butylamino ethyl acrylate 2 1,1,3,3 tetramethylbutylamino ethyl methacrylate, etc. alpha, beta ethylenically unsaturated nitriles e.g.acrylonitrile, methacrylonitrile, ethacrylonitrile,.etc. alpha, beta ethylenically unsaturated amides 0 amylamide and the N substituted acrylamides methyl, N e 07 , Num N N dimetayl and methyl,etc. acrylamides or methacrylamides methacrylamides in beta dimethylamino ethyl acrylam. here dimenshyammyethyl methacrylamide, etc. viny ester beta,anyl acetouse, etc. vinyl alcohol and viny ethers e.g. methyl or ethyl viny ether, diethylaminoethyl vinyl orher,. Alewhylaminoethyl vinyl sulphide, 5aminopentyl vinyl ether, 3 aminopropyl vinyl ether, 2 aminosthyl vi vi ether, J methylaminoethyl vinyl ether lkly vinyl ketones e.g. methyl vinyl ketone. etc. vinyl pyridine, vinyl pyrrolidone, mixtures thereof and the like. The proportions of eventually unsaturated starch copolymerised with the ethylenically unsaturated starch should typically be sufficient to provide a starch copolymerisate which is capable of absorbing at least 10 times its dry veight in water. The monomer type and starch type will affect the proportions needed to achieve optinum water absorbency. In general, the monomer dry weight will usually fall within the range of about 5 to acout 2000 parts by weight for each 100 parts by weight of the ethylenically unsaturated starch. For water absorbency properties which which exceed 50 times star copolymerisate weight about 10 to about 1000 parts t weight copolymerisable monomer for cach 100 parts by weight athylenically unsaturated starch is tipically required.The amount of W monomeric units within the polymeric linkage will usually comprise from about 25 to 00 of the copolymerised monomer weight and advantageously is leest a major weight of the polymeric linkage. Water absorbient copolymers capable of absorbing at least 100 times dry weight in water are most suisable rames from about 100 to about 750 parts by veight in monomer, and from 0 to about 200 parts by veight ethylenic monomer free from W monomers for each 100 parts by weght ethylenically unsaturated by The water absorbent starch copolymerlsates are advantageously prepared under aqueous pol , merisation conditions. Homogeneity of the reaetants throughout the aqueous phase results in more uniform and reproducible water absorbent properties.Ethylenically unsaturated starch and ethylenically unsaturated monomer systems which provide homogeneous dispersions essentially free from cent rifugal residue and or supernatant e.g. heated to a temperature above the starch gelation point to gelatinise the starch and centrifuged for 10 minutes at 103g s as evidenced by less than 10 0 by weight centrifuged residue preferablv less than 5 ,b are particularly well suited systems for preparing the water absorbent starch copolymerisates. In thermal fabrication processes e.g. moulding, calendering, extrusion, etcj, a relatively high monomer and starch to water weight ratio 5 1 to 9 1 is typically used. At the reduced water levels and elevated monomer levels, incompatibility of the ethylenic unsaturated monomer starch system can arise. Elevated fabricating temperatures and pressures may be used to improve upon the compatibility of this system. Likewise water miscible solvents in which the ethylenic unsaturated monomers are soluble e.g. such as glycerol or emulsifying agents may be effectively utilised to enhance the waterdispersibility of the monomer starch system into the aqueous phase.In extrusion operations, a sufficient amount of water with or without conventional starch plasticisers to convert the polymerisable mass to a molten plasticised mass at elevated temperatures e.g. 800 to 2500C and pressures is used. The molten mass is then extruded through a die orifice into an atmosphere of reduced pressure and temperature maintained below the boiling point , to produce void free extrudates and above its B P. to produce puffed extrudates. In reading applications it is particulary avenuageous no utilise a gelatinised or pregelatinised starch. Acuecus coating compositions containing the lew viscosisy ethylenically unsaturated starch hydrolysates are particulary useful when it is desired to coat substrates at dry binder weight levels of at least 40 .substrates nor be uniformly wetted and coated at solids levels ranging from about 50 c o, to 75 by weight with stability against syneresis, separation and viscosity hanges. Such coatings dry easily at nominal evaporatiot costs. Depolymerisation of the starch to the appropriate short chain length e.g. D.E. 0.2 100 for coating pplications may be accomplished by conventional saccharification and or thinning techniques e.g. cla or enzymaticv. The starch chains may be depolymerised to the appropriate chain lenght prior or after the ethylenically unsaturated derivatives are prepared.Starch enains having a degree of polymerisation comparable to that achieved by alpha amylase hydrolysis of starch to D.E. ranging from about 0.1 to 32 advantageously from about o.25 to about 15 and most preferably less than 10 may be effectively used to coat substrates. The reduced starch chain lenght will not adversely affect starch coating permanence provided the ethylenically unsaturated D.S. is sufficiently high enough to provide chains which contain multifunctional unsaturation sites. In most coating applications, the water content is typically adjusted to a fluidity most suitable to coat se substrate. The starch coating composition viscosity may vary considerably and depends to a large extent upon the type of coating operation employed e.g. from about to about 40,000 cps or higher for extrusion coating .The proportions of water, monomer and ethylenic unsaturated starch weight ratios may likewise vary considerably e.g., about 5 to about 10,000 parts by weight, i.e. pbw, water and about 1 to about 5,000 pbw monomer for each 100 pbw ethylenically unsaturated starch . In coating operations conducted under ambient temperatures, it is advantageous to utilise a homogeneous starch coating composition of viscosity greater than about 10 cps but less than 5,000 eps most typically between about 20 cps to 1,000 cps and containing frdm about 25to about 800 pbw water and about 10 to. about 2,000 pbw ethylenically unsaturated monomer for each 100 pbw ethylenically unsaturated starch.Water miscible organo solvents or surfactants are desirably incorporated into the coating composition for purposes of achieving homogeneity and a uniform monomer dispersion if the starch coating formulation contains a low amount of water and a high monomer concentration. Starch coating compositions which are adapted for use in high speed coating operations are typically formulated at a viscosity ranging from about 100 cps to about 300 cps with or without fugitive organo solvents or surfactants at about 30 to about 500 pbw water and about 25 to about 1,000 pbw preferably between about 50 to about 500 pbw ethylenically unsaturated monomer for each 100 pbw ethylenically unsatúrated starch. In formulations for high speed coating operations, starch coating homogeneity is more easily achieved by using less than 3 weight parts ethylenically unsaturated monomer for each 2 weight parts of water and preferably at a weight ratio of less than one part monomer for each water part. The copolymerisates are copolyenerised by conventional polymerisation initiating means. The unpolymerised starch and monomers may be conveniently prefabricated into the desired configuration and then conolymerised in situ via such conventional polymerisation initiating systems. The starch compositions will undergo copolymerisation upon exposure to conventional irradiation processes which generate in situ polymerisation initiators therein e.g. electron beamX rax, apaa ray, gamma ray, etc, initiation . Alsermativeir, free radical catalysts or free radical procursors iny be uniformly incorporated into the unbolvmerised starch composition which will then latently copolymerise upon exposure to appropriate initiating conditions e.g. photochemical, ultraviolet, heating or microwave techniques, etc. . Conventional free radical polymerisation initiators t levels sufficient to copolymerise the ethylenic unsaturated starch and monomer e.g. about 0.2 to about 20 on a starch monomer weight basis which may be incorporated into the starch composition include the organic and inorganic peroxides e.g. hydrogen peroxide, benzoyl peroxide, tertiary butyl hydroperoxide, diisopropyl benzene hydroperoxide, cumene hydroperoxide, caproyl peroxide, methyl ethyl ketone peroxide, etc., , oxidationreduction initiator systems ammonium, potassium or sodium persulphates or hydrogen peroxide with reducing agants, such as sodium bisulphites, sulphites, sulphoxylates, thiosulphates, hydrazine, etc. azo initiators e.g. atlary aliphatic az comtcunds which undergo homolytic diss .ation such as azo di isobutyronitrile, phenylazotrinphenylmethane, 1,1 azodicyclohexane carbonitrile, 1, 1 dimethilazoethane diazoamino compounds e.g. 3,3 dimethyl 1phenyl triazene and aryldiazo thioethers and other free radical generating catalysts such as certain aromatic ketones e.g. benzoin methyl ether, benzophenone and its derivatives , chlorinated aromatics as well as other free radical type of polymerisation initiators.Free radical initiator systems which require externally applied energy e.g. thermally, photochamical, etc. for free radical generation may e ed to provide a latently copolymerised system Advantageously the free radical polymeration initiators are uniformly dispersed throught to aqueous phase of the starch composition at levels ranging from about 0.3 0 to about 10 oh based on D olymerisable starch and monomer dry weight . Polymerisation initiation via U.V. and white light sources e.g. 200 430 nanometer nm range, such as by carbon arc lamps, Zenon lamps, high pressure mercury lamps is particularly useful in high speed coating operations. If desired, conventional photosensitisers e.g. triethanol amine soluble benzophenones, eosin sulphonates, methylene blue sulphinate, combinations thereof, etc. by active energy transfer may be incorporated into the starch composition to facilitate the copolymerisation initiation reaction. The ultraviolet polymerisation initiating processes are generally suitable for coatings or films of a thickness of less than about 20 mils preferably less than about 10 mils .Thicker starch polymerisate articles or films normally require higher penetrating irradiation devices e.g, X ray, electron beam, gamma generation, etc. or thermal induction. The ultra violet copolymerisation process is particularly effective for high solids starch coating applications e.g. about 55 Ó to about 75 0 dry solids because it simultaneously dries and copolymerises the starch coating In a single step. Water dispersible, non fugitive free radical initiating systems e.g.catalysts which evaporate or do not leave catalytic residue in the copolymerisate such as hydrogen peroxide are preferred. The water absorbent starch copolymerisates have a wide and divergent field of use. A major advantage of the water absorbent starches of this invention resides in the ability to apply the unpolymerised product to a substrate or prefabricate it into the desired shape or configuration and then convert it to a water absorbent, starch copolymerisate. Tile unpolymerised product can be applied to divergent substrates ranging from natural and Man made products and thereafter polymerised in situ to form an integrated product of unitary construction. t s advantage is particularly useful for applicaticas snerein it IS desirable to permanently affix or ialpregnate a natural or synthetic substrate e.g. films, webbings, fibres, filaments, etc. with the water absorbent starch. Illustrative applications for the water absorbent starches include hygenic pads, bandages, surgical and catamenial tampons, sanitary napkins, diapers, antiperspirant and deodorant pads, sponges, surgical pads, sorptive dental rolls, disinfectants, decorative seedling films, etc.If desired, the water absorbent s tarch copolymerisates may be admixed with natural and man made products for such divergent uses as cosmetics, water scavengers, paint removers, solid mmectants, pesticides, improving the water holding opacity of soils, catalysts or chemical carrier, binders, etc. The following examples are merely illustrative and should not be construed as limiting the scope of the invention EVuAMPLE I An aqueous acrylamidomethyl starch hydrolysate D.S. 0.009 was prepared employing the following proportions of reagents.Parts by weight phw Reagents 279 STA TAPE 100 Starchl 250 parts by weight dry starch 21 N methylolacrylamide as 60 aqueous soln 25.8 Ammonium hydrogen phosphate acid catalyst 0.004 Methyl hydroquinone polymerisation inhibitor 247 water 1 STA TAPE 100 manufactured by the A.E. Staley Manufacturing Company A low viscosity, acid thinned, granular waxy maize starch 100 amylo pectin typically characterised as having a Brookfield viscosity of about 500 cps No. 2 spindle, 20 rpm, 1500C at a dry solids of 40 to 45 and a D.E. of less than 1 cÖ. The ingredients were mixed and filtered on a Buchner funnel. The starch cake was suckled free of excess aqueous phase and the unwashed cake with 63 percent retention of non starch reagents was air dried to a ten percent drying loss. The dried reaction premix had the following ratios of reagents fpbw 250 starch 7.95N methylolacrylamide, 0.025 methyl hydroquinone 29 water. The powdered reaction premix.was layered onto a stainless steel tray and heated for 2 hours in a forced air oven at 75.50C. After resuspending in distilled water, filtering and washing free of unreacted reagent impurities, the dried product contained 0.10 percent nitrogen dry basis , which when corrected for the nitrqgen in the STA TAPE 100 starch 0.022 percent is equivalent to a D.S. of 0.009. Further information on the preparation of the acrylamidomethyl starches may be found in German Offenlegungsschritt 27 10 210. A portion of the acrylamidomethyl starch o,7 grams vas homogeneously dispersed into 8.43 grams water R5 minutes at its boiling point and cooled to ambient temperature in a 50 ml flask. Acrylic acid 0.48 grams and acrylamide 0.24 grams were homogeneously disersed into the acrylamido starch solution followed by the addItion of 0.0169 grams d.s.b. ammonium persulphate 2.28 aqueous solution and 0.0076 gram d.s.b. of sodium bisulpbide 1.04 aqueous solution Then 0.002 gram d.s.b. of ferrous sulphate 0.28 wt. FeSO4.7H2O aqueous solution was added which caused an exothermic copolymerisation of the ethylenic unsaturates. Within R minute the entire reaction medium had gelled 12.1 g into a copolymerisate which could be agitated with a magnetic stirrer. o convert the acrylic moieties to the anionic salt form, o.42 gram of solid potassium hydroxide was added. The resultant viscous dispersion 12.53 g total was then stirred for 15 minutes. The sample contained 15.24 wt. solids. The gel was then diluted to 5 wt. dry solids with 25.64 g distille water and allowed to stand fo 24 hours.Thereafth the dispersion 36.84 grams was further diluted with 55.26 g distilled water to provide a 2 gel solids dispersion. The viscosity of the dispersion respectively after standing for six and twenty three hours No. 4 spindle at 20 rpm was 500 cps and 3500 eps, The solids was again diluted with 90.52 g of distilled water 1 dry solids dispersion which after 29 hours standing h ad a 700 cps viscosity No. q spin at 20 rpm and after 55 hours a viscosity of 710 eps The 1 dispersion was ambiently air dried evaporating dish for 11 days . A 0.1526 g sample or the resultant gummy resin was transferred and bydiate with 11,35 grams of distilled water in a 15 ml centrifuge tube. The sample s swelled to t volume. The hydrated sample was centrifuged for15 minutes at 103g s.The supernatant liquid was decanted into a tared aluminum pan. 11.38 grams of the swollen gel was transferred to a 50 ml centrifuge tube and diluted with 11.38 grams of water and allowed to swell for 17 hours followed by centrifugation for 15 minutes at 103g s. The supernatent pH 6.6 along with the aforementioned supernatant was analysed for watersoluble starch 0.0423 grams or 27.7 by weight, via evaporation . The copolymerisate weight swelling ratio WSR was determined by the equation WSR wherein I, O and S respectively represent the weight of swollen insolubles, 9.63 grams original sample 0.1526 grams and and solubles, 0.0423 grams i.e., WSR O S 9.63 0.152b 0.0423 ELE2LE II A cationic, water absorbent starch copolymerisate was prepared by copolymerising in 34.6 pbw distilled water 8.5 pbw 0.008 moles acrylamidomethyl starch 0 d.s. 0.008 , 30.9 pbw CH2 C CH3 OCH OH CH2N CH3 3Cl Q.0199 moles and 11. 1 pbw acrylamide 0.0241 moles .The copolymerisation reaction was exothermically initiated with o.1 pbw ammonium persulphate 0.13 NH4 2S2O8 5 pbw water , 0.07 pbw sodium bisulphite 0.07 pbw NaHSo3 5 pbw water and 0.01 pbw FeS04.7H20 0.01 pbw FeS04.7H20 4.7 pbw water . Within 90 seconds the copolymerisation reaction was completed to yield a water absorbent, hydrated copolymerisate gel. This cationic gel was analysed in accordance with the test procedure of Example I at 250C.The copolymerisate contained 77 by weight insoluble copolymerisate solids and 27 by weight solubles and had a 152 WSR. The insoluble copolymerisate absorbed 152 times its dry weight of water at a pH 4.0 and 250C. EXAMPLE III Sivicnic water absorbient starch copolymerisate prepared by copolymerising 0.008 moles acrylamidomethy starch 0.3. 0.008 at 8.45 pbw , 0.0243 moles acrylamides 0 11.25 pbw and 0.01673 moles CH2 C CH3 OCH2CH2N CH3 3 CH3OSO3 30.82 pbw with the exothermic initiating system of Example ii. The resultant copolymerisate gel coopolymerisation completed within 150 seconds after initiation was admixed with 2000 ml. water and allowed to swell for 8 days at 25 C. The decanted supernatent liquid portion thereof contained 20.18 water solubles.The insoluble copolymerisate 79.82 of the total copolymerisable reactants absorbed 86 times it weight of water at pH 3 6 AND C. EXAMPLE IV Employing the polymerisate initiating system ofExample II, 10 pbw acrylamidomethyl starch D.S. 0.008 was copolymerised about 3 minutes in 56 pwb distilled water which contained 9 pbw potassium hydroxide with 12 pbw acrylic acid and 12 pbw acrylicThe anionic cooplymerisate gel tested via the Example IT, water absorbency test absorbed 119 times its i1y weight of water. This example was repeated agci with a 0.056 D.S. starch. The 0.056 D.S. copolymerisate gel only absorbed 27 times its dry weight in water.The lower water absorbency for the 0.56 D.S.acrylamidomethyl starch copolymerisate is apparently attributed to its more highly cross linked structure EXAMPLE V This example illustrates a water absorbent copolymerisable starch coating composition which may copolymerised in situ to provide a substrate e.g.textile, papers, etc. coated with the water absorb.starch copolymerisate. The copolymerisable coating composition pH 6.0 consisted of 10 pbw acrylic starch 0.01 D.S. 2, 47 pbw distilled water, 12 pbw acrylic acid, 12 pbw acrylamide, 9 pbw potassium. hydroxide and 10 pbw aqueous hydrogen peroxide 30 ,0 . Five grams of the copolvmerisable composition was placed in an aluminium weighing pan 2 or approx. 5 cmI.D. and irradiated an inch away from a 275 watt sun lamp for 1 minute to give a firm gel. Another portion of copolymerisable starch composition was applied with a No. 40 wire wound rod to a 4 x 12 10 cm x 30.5 cm glass plate and irradiated 6 passes at 20 ft. min. 6.2 m min at 1.5 3.8 cm under a Hanovia 679A lamp. The copolymerisable starch composition gelled on the first pass 1 6 sec. and converted to a dry film after the sixth pass through the irradiator .e. one second .The WSR for the resultant starch copolymerisates were 150. A 0.056 D.S. acrylamidomethyl starch was used instead of the 0.01 D.S. acrylamidomethyl starch to provide a copolymerisate with a WSR of 30. In another test, a 0.014 D.S. acrylamidomethyl starch was substituted for the 0.01 D.S. acrylamidomethyl starch reactant and applied to the glass plates with a No. 40 wire wound rod pH 6.2 25 36 cps viscosity, No. 1 spindle, at 20 rpm at 250C . ASter 4 passes through the irradiator, a dry, water absorbent film coating, 83.51 Vo insoluble copolymerisate dry solids and a WSR of 120 was obtained. This test was repeated by immersing three cotton cloth pieces 18 x 6 or approx. 45.7 x 15.2 cm in the 0.014 D.S. copolymerisable starch coating compositions, passing the coated cotton through the rolls of a BirchBrothers Padder, placing the coated cotton pieces on glass plates and then irradiating the three samples for 2 The 0.01 D.S. acrylamidomethbrl starch hydrolysate contained an average of approximately two aerylamidomethyl groups for each starch molecule 4,0 and passes. The dry coating addich was weight. The water swelling ratios were 120 for 4 irradiation passes, 86 for 8 passes and slightly more than 100 for the cloth which was exposed to 6 passes. Although the aforementioned Examples primarily Illustrate t use of relatively high molecular weight starch chains, he invention applies to a broad range of ethylenically unsaturated glucose containing monomeis such as those ranging from a completely hydrolysed stare e.g. dextrose to an unhydrolysed starch. The glucose containing monomers which contain multifunctional ethylenically unsaturated groups provide the necessary structure for the porous lyophilic network The most appropriate n.S. level for a glucosecontaining monomer will depend upon the number of glucos units present In its starch chain.To achieve multifunctional copolymerisable groups for a monosaccharide, disaccharide, trisaccharide or tetrasaccharide monomer would respectively require a D.S. of 2.0, 1.0, 0.66 and 9.5 with the oligosaccharides e.g. D.P. 4 and highe starch chains requiring a correspondingly lesser J to achIeve multifunctionality. In contrast, the higher molecular weight starches e.g. unhydroiysed starches will typically have multi functional copolymerisable groups at a D.S. of 0.0002 or les Since the starch copolymerisates as described herein possess a porous structure, their lyophilic properties can be altered via the composition and character o unsaturated starches, monomers and yophilic groups which are used in their preparation. By replacing tie polar, water attractant groups w th non polar and oil or solvent attractant groups, stand copolymerisates which may be tailor made to absorb specific solvents, chemicals and or water imtisoibl liquids e.g. oil are now possible. Similarly, lyophilic and amphophilic starch copolymerisates may be obtained by starch copolymerisates which contain both polar water soluble and hydrophobic, water insoluble substituents.