# Thermosetting resin composition.

## Abstract
A thermosetting resin composition is described compris ing A a hydrolyzable silyl groups containing compound selected from the group polyesters, vinyl polymers, diallyl phthalate compounds and diallyl phthalate copolymers or their mixtures and B an amino resin. The composition is curable upon exposure to heat, and has superior properties, such as hardness, toughness and stain resistance, when used for example as a coating. The composition can be utilized as a coating material.

## Claims
Claims 1. Thermosetting resin composition comprising the following compounds as the essential components A a silyl group containing compound containing at least one hydrolyzable silyl group in its molecule selected from the group polyesters, vinyl polymers, diallyl phthalate compounds and diallyl phthalate copolymers or their mixtures, and B an amino resin. 2. The composition according to claim 1, wherein said silyl groupscontaining compound is a polyester having a molecular weight of from 300 to 8000. 3. The composition accordingto claim 1, wherein said silyl groups containing compound is a vinyl polymer having a molecular weight of from 300 to 20,000. 4. The composition according to claim 1, wherein said silyl groupscontaining compound is a diallyl phthalate monomer or a diallyl phthalate prepolymer having a molecular weight of 20,000 or less. 5. The composition according to claim 1, wherein said silyl groupscontaining compound is a copolymer having a molecular weight of from 300 to 20,000 and comprising diallyl phthalate and an acrylic ester or methacrylic ester. 6. The composition according to claim 3, wherein said vinyl polymer is a polymer comprising acrylic ester or methacrylic ester. 7. The composition according to claim 5, wherein said polymer comprising diallyl phthalate and an acrylic ester or methacrylic ester contains diallyl phthalate from 5 to 100 mol . 8. The composition according to claim 1, wherein said amino resin is a melamine resin. 9. The composition according to claim 1, wherein said amino resin is a urea resin. 10 The composition according to claim 1, wherein said amino resin is a guanamine resin.

## Description
Thermosetting Resin Composition II Priority August 27, 1979, Japan, No. 109 364 79The present invention relates to a thermosetting resin composition.Compounds containing reactive silyl groups have a wide application in various technical fields such as paints, coating compositions, adhesives for rubber, silane coupling agents and sealants. In particular silyl groups containing compounds of the condensation type which cure at normal temperatures and contain hydroxy groups, acetoxy groups, oxime groups, alkoxy groups and the like as reactive groups have a particularly wide range of application. Although the inventors of the present invention already found such reactive silyl groups containing compounds aplicable in those uses and catalysts for curing them at room temperature or higher temperatures, they have never succeeded in obtaining such catalysts that yield thermoset products with satisfactory properties after short time curing.As a result of studying various kinds of catalysts, we could find that reactive silyl groups containg compounds can be cured at temperatures from 200 to 2800C in a rather short time such as from 45 to 60 seconds. That is to say, the present invention relates to a thermosetting resin composition comprising the following compounds as the essential components A a silyl groups containg compound containing at least one hydrolyzable silyl group in its molecule select ed from the group polyesters, vinyl polymers, di allyl phthalate compounds and diallyl phthalate co polymers or their mixtures, and B an amino resin.Said silyl groups containing compounds used in the present invention can be prepared by an addition reaction of a silane with compounds containing terminal carbon carbon double bonds or double bonds in their side chains in the presence of a platinum catalyst.The compounds containing terminal carbon carbon double bonds or double bonds in their side chains and to be used for preparing e.g. paints, coating compositions, rubber adhesives, silane coupling agents or sealants at which the present invention is aiming include 1 polyesters, 2 vinyl polymers, 3 diallyl phthalate compounds, 4 diallyl phthalate copolymers and the like.Polyesters containing terminal carbon carbon double bonds or double bonds in their side chains can be obtained by reacting for example a polyester containing terminal hydroxy groups, e.g. products sold unter the trade markDESMOPHENE manufactured by Japan Polyurethane Co., Ltd., with acryloyl chloride in the presence of a base such as sodium hydride or by a condensation reaction of a dibasic acid with a diol with a partial addition of allylglycidylether as a diol component. Such polyesters can be obtained also by a transesterification reaction between a polyester containing terminal hydroxy groups and a diallyl ester such as diallyl phthalate in the presence of a transesterifica tion catalyst such as toluene sulfonic acid.Such polyesters can be obtained also by a condensation reaction of an excess of a dibasic acid and a diol whereby allyl alcohol is added during or after the reaction. Furthermore, polyesters containing olefin groups of the allyl type in their molecule can be obtained by reacting acid anhydrides with epoxy compounds and with allyl alcohol in the presence of salts of tertiary amines or quaternary ammonium salts, in order to regulate their molecular weight and simultaneously to introduce allyl groups. In this reaction allyl groups can be introduced in the polymer by using allyl glycidylether as epoxy compound. Polyesters containing acryloyl or methacryloyl groups can be obtained according to known methods by condensation of diols with dibasic acids and acrylic acid or methacrylic acid.Vinyl polymers containing carbon carbon double bonds can be obtained by a radical homopolymerization of allyl acrylate or allyl methacrylate and the like or copolymerization of vinyl compounds such as styrene, gl methyl styrene, acrylic acid and its esters, methacrylic acid and its esters, acrylamide, vinyl acetate, ethylene, maleic anhydride and the like.Diallylphthalate compounds containing carbon carbon double bonds include monomers or prepolymers of diallyl phthalate.Commercially available diallyl phthalate compounds may be used.Diallyl phthalate copolymers containing carbon carbon double bonds can be obtained by copolymerizing diallyl phthalate with an acrylic ester or methacrylic ester in the presence of initiators for radical polymerization such as azo compounds, peroxides and the like. The number of double bonds can be controlled by changing the amount of diallyl phthalate used as a copolymerization component. Silanes, i.e. compounds containing at least one hydrogen atom bonded to a silicium atom include silane halogenides such as trichlorosilane, methyldichlorosilane, dimethylchlorosilane and phenyldichlorosilane, alkoxysilanes, such as trimethoxysilane, triethoxysilane, methyldimethoxysilane, methyldiethoxysilane and phenyldimethoxysilane, acyloxysilanes such as methyldiacetoxysilane and phenyldiacetoxysilane ketoximatesilanes such as bis dimethyl ketoximate methylsilane and bis cyclohexylketoximate methylsilane, and the like. When using organo halogen silanes they are substitued by other hydrolyzable groups after the hydrosilylation.Vinyl polymers containing silyl group arse obtained by copolymerizing a silyl group containing vinyl compound such as vinyltrimethoxysilane, methacryloxypropyltrimeth oxysilane or J methacryloxypropylmethyldimethoxysilane with a vinyl compound such as styrene,9 methylstyrene, acrylic acid and its esters, methacrylic acid and its esters, acrylamide, vinyl acetate, ethylene or maleic anhydride. Vinyl polymers containing silyl groups can be obtained also by reacting an organic polymer containing epoxy groups such as a copolymer of glycidyl methacrylate and a vinyl compound with t aminopropyltrimethoxysilane. Polyesters and vinyl polymers containing silyl groups can be obtained also by reacting an organic polymer, such as a polyester or a vinyl polymer containing carboxy groups with glycidoxypropyltrimethoxysilane. The silyl groupscontaining compounds obtained in such a manner contain at least one hydrolyzable group bonded to a silicium atom,These compounds can be cured in the presence of water. A variety of silyl groups may be obtained depending on their method of preparation.These silyl groups can be expressed by the following general formula EMI4.1 wherein R1 and R2 are hydrogen atoms or monovalent hydrocarbon groups containing up to 10 carbon atoms selected from the group alkyl groups, aryl groups and aralkyl groups X is an alkoxy group, hydroxy group, acyloxy group, aminoxy group, phenoxy group, Thicalkoxy group or amino group and a is an integer of from 0 to 2.Amino resins such as the various melamine resins, urea resins and guanamine resins having a bimolecular weight of up to 5,000 may be used. The amino resin used in an amount of from 5 to 50 parts by weight, preferably from 10 to 30 parts by weight per 100 parts by weight of the component A although the ratio is not particularly critical.Furthermore, ethyl silicate, methyltrimethoxysilane, silane coupling agents and other organopolysiloxanes containing at least one hydrolyzable group in their molecule can be incorporated into the thermosetting resin composition. The resin composition according to the present invention may be used as a fast baking coating composition for precoating metals, car bodies and car bumpers. The substrate can be for instance galvanized steel, aluminium or glass.The resin composition may be used in the form of a mixture with pigments, fillers and other conventional additives.Furthermore, it may be used in the form of a mixture with a known lacquer paint, acryl lacquer paint, thermosetting acrylic resin paint, alkyd resin paint, melamine resin paint or epoxy resin paint. The resin composition may be used also as an adhesive for bonding various substrates.The following examples illustrate the invention. Example 1A one liter stainless steel autoclave is charged with 148 g of phthalic anhydride, 46.4g of propylene oxide, 22.8 g of allylglycidylether, 11.6 g of allyl alcohol and 0.5 g of dimethylbenzylamine. The autoclave is closed and the mixture is heated at 1000C for 3 hours and then 46 g of propylene oxide are added to the reaction mixture. The reaction is continued for one further hour. Then the excess of propylene oxide is removed. A polyester having a molecular weight of 1,200 is obtained.A mixture of 100 g of this polyester and 9.5 g of acetic anhydride is heated at 1200C for 2 hours. Then the excess of acetic anhydride is removed under reduced pressure.22 g of the acetylated polyester obtained are reacted with 8.65 g of methyldichlorosilane in the presence of 0.0035 g chloroplatinic acid at 800C for 3 hours. Then the excess of methyldichlorosilane is removed under reduced pressure. Then 20 ml of methanol and 20 ml of methyl orthoformate are added to the residue. The mixture is stirred for one hour at room temperature and then low boiling substances are removed under reduced pressure to obtain a polyester containing silyl groups.Example 2A solution of 2 g azobisisobutyronitrile in a mixture of 30 g styrene, 16 g allyl methacrylate, 20 g methyl methacrylate, 19 g n butyl methacrylate, 14 g n butyl acrylate, 1 g maleic anhydride and 2 g n dodecylmercaptane are added dropwise to 100 g of toluene heated at 900C. After the addition the mixture is heated for 10 hours. A vinyl polymer containing unsaturated groups of the allyl type and having a molecular weight of 8000 is obtained. The infrared absorption spectrum shows the typical carbon carbon double bond absorption at 1648 cm 20 g of the solution of the vinyl eopolymer containing unsaturated groups of the allyl type are mixed with 1.5 g of methyldimethoxysilane and 0.0005 g of chloroplatinic acid in isopropanol.The mixture is heated at 900C for 6 hours in a sealed pressure bottle to obtain a vinyl polymer containing silyl groups. The absorption at 1 1648 cm 1 in its infrared absorption spectrum is no Longer observed.Example 3The reaction is carried out in the same way as in example 2 except that 31 g of diallyl phthalate are used instead of 16 diallyl methacrylate. A diallyl phthalate copolymer containing silyl groups is obtained.Example 4A solution of 2 g azobisisobutyronitrile in a mixture of 30 g styrene, 27 g t methacryloxypropyltrimethoxysilane, 20 g methyl methacrylate, 19 g n butyl methacrylate, 14 g n butyl acrylate, 2 g acrylamide, 5 g n butanol and 2 g n dodecylmercaptane are added dropwise to 100 g of toluene heated at 1000C. After the addition the mixture is heated for 10 hours. A vinyl polymer containing silyl groups and having a molecular weight of 9000 is obtained.Example 5 100 g of a diallyl phthalate prepolymer trade name Dap L manufactured by Osaka Soda Co., Ltd., iodine value about 80 , 0.00001 g of chloroplatinic acid and 1 g of hydroquinone are dissolved in 100 ml of toluene. Then 35 g of methyldiethoxysilane are added to this solution. The mixture is heated at 900C for 5 hours. A diallyl phthalate prepolymer containing silyl groups is obtained.A mixture consisting of 100 parts calculated as solids of a silyl groups containing compound obtained in example 1 to 5 and 100 parts of titanium dioxide is milled it a ball mill and then an amino resin is added in the ratio shown in the following Table I. The composition obtained is cured by heating for 45 seconds at 2800C.The pencil hardness test and the staining test by rouge and marking ink are carried out. The table shows a comparison of the results obtained with the results for resin compositions which were cured with conventional tin catalysts comparative examples . Table IEMI8.1 tb SEP tb SEP Amino SEP Pencil SEP Antistaining SEP properties tb SEP resin SEP Hardness SEP Wipi3 SEP lg SEP off SEP by SEP methanol tb SEP parts SEP Black SEP Red SEP mark tb SEP Rouge SEP marking SEP ing SEP ink tb SEP ink tb Example SEP 80S SEP 30 SEP H SEP o SEP A SEP x tb 1 tb Example SEP 22R SEP 20 SEP 2H SEP o SEP o SEP A tb 2 tb Com SEP Dibutyltin SEP 2B SEP x SEP x SEP x tb parative SEP dilaurate tb example SEP 20 tb Example SEP 208E 60 SEP 30 SEP 2H SEP o SEP A SEP x tb 3 tb Example SEP 6OR SEP 20 SEP 2H SEP o SEP o SEP A tb 4 tb Compara SEP Dibutyltin SEP HB SEP x SEP x SEP x tb tive SEP dilaurate SEP i tb example SEP 20 tb 4 tb Example SEP 91 55 30 SEP 2H SEP o SEP A SEP x tb 5 tb UVAN series manufactured by Mitsui Toatsu Chemicals, Inc. 80S specially modified melamine resin 208E 60 n butylated melamine resin 22R II 60R i butylated melamine resin 91 55 butylated benzoguanamine resin o Completely wiped off A A mark slightly left x Impossible to wipe off Black marking ink Oily ink black Red marking ink Oily ink red