# Pyridyloxyphenoxycrotonic acid derivatives, their preparation, compositions thereof and their use as selective weed control agents.

## Abstract
Compounds of the formula The novel compounds can be made by e.g. reacting 4 3,5 dichloropyridin 2 yloxy phenol with R₁HCH CHCOR₂ or R₁ HCH CHCN and if necessary transforming the product initially obtained.

## Claims
Claims 1, A compound of the formulaEMI39.1 where R1 is H, CH3, OH2CH3 or CH2OCH3 W is COOR2, CONR3R4, COSR5, COC1, CN orEMI39.2 R2 is H, C1 C4 alkyl, CH2CH2OCH3, CH2CH2OCH2CH3 or CH2CH2CH2OCH3 R3 is H, C1 O3 alkyl OCH3 R4 is H or C1 O3 alkyl R5 is C1 C4 alkyl and R6 and R7 are independently E or CH3 and agriculturally suitable salts thereof. 2. A compound of claim 1 wherein R1 is CH3. 3. A compound of claim 1 or 2 wherein W is COOR2or CN. 4. A compound of claim wherein R2 is H,CH3 or C2H5 5. A compound of claim 4 wherein R2 is H or CH3. 6. Methyl 4 4 3,5 dichloropyridin 2 yloxy phenoxy 2 pentenoate. 7. 4 4 3 , 4 3,4 Dichloropyridin 2 yloxy phenoxy 2 butenenitrile. 8. 4 4 3,5 Dichloropridin 2 yloxy phenoxy 2 pentenenitrile. 9. 4 4 3,5 Dichloropyridin 2 yloxy phenoxy 2 pentenoic acid and agriculturally suitable salts thereof. 10. The D enantiomers of the compounds of claims 1 to 9. 11. A composition for the control of undesirable vegetation comprising an effective amount of a herbicidal compound and at least one of a a surface active agent and b a solid or liquid diluent characterised in that said herbicidal compound comprises a compound of any of claims 1 to 10. 12. A method for the control of undesirable vegetation by applying to the locus of such undesirable vegetation an effective amount of a herbicidal compound, characterised in that said herbicidal compound comprises a compound of any of claims 1 to 10. 13. A method for the selective control of grass weeds in broadleaf crops by applying to the locus of such grass weeds in effective amount of a herbicidal compound, characterised in that said herbicidal compound comprises a compound of any of claims 1 to 10. 14. A process for preparing d compound ofClaim 1 where W is C02R2 or CN which comprises contacting, in the presence of a base, the compoundsEMI40.1 where R and R, are as proviously defined and where Z l 2 prviously is C1 or Br. 15. The process of Claim 14 wherein the product is hydrolyzed with acid or base to yield a compound of Claim 1 where W COOH. 16. A process for preparing a compound of 0 1 Claim 1 where W is CNR3R4 which comprises contactingEMI41.1 and RNR3R4, where R1, R3 and R4 are as previously defined. 17. A process for preparing a compound ofClaim 1 where W isEMI41.2 which comprises contacting the compoundsEMI41.3 and HSR5, where r1 and P5 are as previously defined, in the presence of a base. 18 . A process for preparing a compound ofClaim 1 where W is COC1 which comprises contacting a compound of the formulaEMI41.4 where R1is s previously defined with oxalyl chloride or thionyl chloride. 19. A process for preparing a compound of claim 1 where W isEMI42.1 which comprises reacting the acid chloride defined in claim 16 with 6 aminoethanol or a C methyl or dimethyl substituted derivative thereof and cyclizing the resulting amide.

## Description
Pyridyloxyphenoxycrotonic acid derivatives, their preparation, compositions thereof and their use as selective weed control agents Technical Field This invention relates to pyridyloEyphenoxy crotonate esters and related compounds which are useful as selective weed control agents. The compounds are especially useful for controlling grass weeds in broadleaf crops such as soybeans. The presence of undesirable vegetation causes substantial damage to useful crops, especially agricultural products that satisfy man s basic food and fiber needs, such as cotton, rice, corn, wheat, soybean and the like. The current population explosion and concomitant world food and fiber shortage underlie the need for improvements in the efficiency of producing these crops. Preventing or minimizing the loss of a portion of such valuable crops by killing or inhibiting the growth of undesired vegetation is one way of improving this efficiency. A wide variety of materials useful for killing or inhibiting controlling the growth of undesired vegetation is available such materials are commonly referred to as herbicides. The need exists, however, for still more effective herbicides that destroy or control weeds without causing significant damage to useful crops. Background Art Belgian Patent No. 875,880, dated August 16, 1979, to Ishihara Sangyo Kaisha, Ltd., claims herbicidal compounds of the formula EMI2.1 where X is hydrogen or halogen and R is alkyl of one to four carbon atoms. Belgian Patent 871,523 to Kumiai, dated October 31, 1977, claims diphenyl ether herbicides. The following compound is representative of this disclosure EMI2.2 German Patent 2,639,796, assigned to Rohm andHaas and dated September 3, 1975, claims diphenyl ether herbicides of the type represented by the following formula EMI2.3 where R4 is alkylene or alkenyl of up to 5 carbon atoms. Unexamined Japanese Patent 3,130,672, assigned to Ishihara Industries KK and dated April 18, 1977, claims phenoxy valeric acid derivatives such asEMI3.1 where X H or C1. German Patent 2,812,571, assigned to Ishihara Sangyo and dated July 21, 1977, claims phenoxy pyridine derivatives of the type represented by the formula EMI3.2 where X F or C1, Y H or C1, and n 0, 1 or 2. Summary of the Invention This invention relates to novel compounds ofFormula I, to their preparation, agricultural compositions containing them and to their method of use as preand post emergence herbicides.EMI4.1 where R is H, CH3, CH2CH3 or CH2OCH3 W is COOR2, CONR3R4, COSR5, COCK, CN orEMI4.2 R2is H, C1 C4 alkyl, CH2CH2OCH3, CH2CH2OCH2CH3 or CF.2CH2CH2OCH3 R3is H, C1 C3 alkyl or OCH3 R4 is H or C1 C3 alkyl R5 is C1 C4 alkyl and R6 and R7 are independently E or CH3 provided that when R3 is OCH3 then R4 is CH3. This invention also relates to agriculturally suitable salts of the above described compound where W is COOR2 and Rz is. hydrogen. The preferred salts are sodium or potassium salt. Detailed Description of the InventionPreferred Compounds Preferred for their high activity and or favorable cost are those compounds of Formula I wherein independently R1is CH3 andEMI4.3 More preferred for their higher activity and or even more favorable cost are those preferred compounds wherein W COOR2 and 5 R2 H, CH3 or C2H5. Most preferred for their even higher activity and or even more favorable cost are those more pre ferred compounds where R2 H or CH3. Specifically preferred for high activity and favorable cost are 4 4 3,5 dichloropyridin 2 yloy phenoxy 2 butene nitrile 4 4 3,5 dichloropyridin 2 yloxy phenoxyl 2 pentene nitrile Methyl 4 4 3,5 dichloropyridin 2 yloxy phenoxy 2 pentenoate and 4 4 3,5 dichloropyridin 2 yloxy phenoxy 2 pen tenoic acid. The D enantiomer is believed to be about twice as active as the racemate. Methods of Preparation The compounds of Formula I, in which W is 0 COR2 or CN can be prepared, as shown in Equation A, by the reaction of 4 3,5 dichloropyridin 2 yloxy phenol Formula II , Equation AEMI5.1 and a substituted alkenoic acid derivative of the Formula III, wherein R1 is as defined hereinbefore and wherein Z is C1 or Br. An approximately equimolar amount of the compound of Formula II and the compound of Formula III are contacted in the presence of a base. Suitable bases include an alkali metal or alkali earth metal hydroxide, hydride, carbonate, bicarbonate or alkoxide, for example, sodium methoxide or potassium t butoxide. The base is present in an amount of about 1 to 2 molar times the amount of the compound of Formula II.The reaction can be carried out in an organic solvent such as methylethyl ketone, tetrahydrofuran, dimethylformamide, dvmethylsulfoxide, or dioxane at temperatures about 200 1000C, preferably about 25 800C. In this reaction procedure and the reaction procedures relating to compounds IV, V, VI, described below pressure is not critical since pressures above and below atmospheric are suitable. For convenience, atmospheric pressure is preferred. The compounds of Formula II are known in the art, for example, in the teachings of U.S. 4,046,553 and Belgian Patent 865,136, the disclosures of which are hereby incorporated by reference. The substituted alkenoic acid derivatives of Formula III are prepared according to the teachings of Justis Liebigs AnnalenDer. Chemie 576, 155 1952 and Otdel, Whim. Nauk.1512 1960 , also hereby incorporated by reference. The compounds of Formula IV,EMI6.1 where R1 is as defined hereinbefore, can be prepared by the acidic hydrolysis of the compounds ofFormula I with hydrochloric acid or sulfuric acid, or by the basic hydrolysis of the compounds of Formula I with sodium hydroxide, potassium hydroxide, or barium hydroxide followed by acidification with hydrochloric acid or sulfuric acid. The preparation of the compounds of Formula IV can be carried out in a solvent such as a mixture of methanol and water, or of ethanol and water at temperatures of about 25 1000C. The compounds of Formula IVa,EMI7.1 in which R1 is as defined hereinbefore, can be prepared by treatment of the appropriate carboxylic acid IV with an excess of oxalyl chloride or thionyl chloride The compounds of Formula V,EMI7.2 in which W isEMI7.3 and where R1, R3 and R4 are as defined hereinbefore, can be prepared by contacting the above acid chloride IVa with the proper amine. Typically, the amine is present in an amount of about two molar times the amount of acid chloride. The reaction can be carried out neat or in an organic solvent such as methylene chloride, chloroform, tetrahydrofuran, or dioxane at ambient temperature.The acid chloride can be prepared by reacting the compounds of Formula IV with thionyl chloride, a method known in the art. The compounds of Formula VI,EMI8.1 in which W isEMI8.2 where R1 and R5 are as defined hereinbefore, can be obtained by reacting the corresponding acid chloride of the Formula IVa above with the proper mercaptan in the presence of a base. The acid chloride, the compound of Formula IV and the base are typically present in approximately equimolar proportions. The reaction can be carried out in an organic solvent such as methylene chloride, tetrahydrofuran or toluene. The reaction can be carried out at temperatures between about 0 and 1000C, preferably between about 250 and 500C.The base used for the preparation of the compounds of Formula VI can be a tertiary organic amine such as trimethylamine, triethylamine, N,N d methylaniline or pyridine, or alkali metal or alkali earth metal carbonate or bicarbonate. Agriculturally suitable salts of compounds ofFormula I are also useful herbicides and can be prepared by a number of ways known to the art. For example, metal salts can be made by treating compounds of Formula I wherein W isEMI9.1 and Rz is hydrogen with a solution of an alkali or alkaline earth metal salt having a sufficiently basic anion e.g. hydroxide, alkoxide, carbonate or hydride . Ammonium, amine, and quaternary amine salts can be made by similar techniques. Salts of compounds of Formula I wherein W isEMI9.2 and R2 is hydrogen can also be prepared by exchange of one cation for another. Cationic exchange can be effected by direct treatment of an aqueous solution of a salt of a compound of Formula I e.g.alkali metal or quaternary ammonium salt with a solution containing the cation to be exchanged.This method is most effective when the desired salt containing the exchanged cation is insoluble in water and can be separated by filtration. Exchange may also be effected by passing an aqueous solution of salt of a compound of Formula I e.g. an alkali metal or quaternary ammonium salt through a column packed with a cation exchange resin containing the cation to be exchanged. In this method, the cation of the resin is exchanged for that of the original salt and the desired product is eluted from the column. This method is particularly useful when the desired salt is water soluble. The compounds of Formula VII,EMI10.1 in which W is CN and R1 is defined as hereinbefore, can be prepared by the reaction of the phenol ofFormula II, and a substituted alkenenitrile derivative of the Formula III. The compounds of Formula VIII,EMI10.2 in which R1 is defined as hereinbefore, can be prepared by an acid chloride of Formula IVa with an appropriately substituted 6 aminoethanol. The resulting amide is cyclized in thionyl chloride to give the isox azolines, represented by Formula VIII. The D enantiomer, which is believed to be aboutEMI10.3 twice as active as the racemate, can be prepared by the reaction of a substituted phenol of the Formula II and the optically active t configuration alkenoic acid derivative or by resolution of the D,L carboxylic acid IV RlfH by crystallization of salts formed with optically active bases. Both methods are well known in the art. In the following examples, all parts and percentages are by weight and temperatures are in degrees centigrade unless otherwise specified. Example IMethyl 4 4 3, 5 dichloropyridin 2 yloxy phenoxy 2 pentenoate To 2.5 g 0.0098 mole of 4 3,5 dichloro 2pyridinyloxy phenol, and 1.5 g of potassium carbonate in 40 ml of methyl ethyl ketone, 2.5 g of methyl 4bromo 2 pentenoate, dissolved in 10 ml of methyl ethyl ketone, was added at room temperature with constant stirring. The mixture was heated at reflux for 20 hours. Upon cooling to room temperature, the mixture was filtered through celite and the insoluble materials washed with 50 ml of ethyl ether. An oily residue which remained after concentrating the filtrate under reduced pressure was dissolved in 125 ml of ethyl ether and washed with excess water.Drying over magnesium sulfate, charcoal filtering, and removal of solvent and volatile impurities at reduced pressure 0.35 mm Hg, 1.5 hours at 75 gave 2.5 g 60 of product, ND25 1.5790. IR neat 5.75 CO2CH3 , 5.95, 6.30 C C , 6.60, 6.90, 11.95 microns NMR CDC13 6 1.50 d, 3H, CH3, J 7 He , 3.75 s, 3H, OCH3 , 4.75 5.15 m, 1E, allylic hydrogen , 5.85 6.20 m, ln, vinylic proton , 6.70 7.20 m, 5H, vinylic proton and phenol protons , 7.60 7.90 m, 2H, pyridine protons . Example IIEthyl 4 4 3,5 dichloropyridin 2 yloxy phenoxy 2 butenoate To 5.1 g 0.02 mole of 4 3,5 dichloro 2pyridinyloxy phenol in 40 ml of methyl ethyl ketone is added 5.1 g of ethyl 4 bromo 2 butenoate, dissolved in 10 ml of methyl ethyl ketone, followed by the addition of 2.8 g anhydrous potassium carbonate. The mixture was ref fluxed 18 hours with continuous stirring. After evaporation of methyl ethyl ketone under reduced pressure, the residue was washed with water, extracted into ethyl ether, dried over magnesium sulfate, and concentrated. Purification by dry column chromatography in ethyl ether hexane 1 1 gave 0.6 g 8 of product. IR neat 5.75 CO2C2H5 microns NMR CDC13 6 1.30 t, 3H, CH3 , 4.30 q, 2H, OCH2 1 4.80 m, 2H, allylic protons 8.40 m, 2H, vinylic protons 7.0 8.0 m, 6H, aromatic protons . Following the teaching of Examples I and II, and by reacting 4 3,5 dichloropyridin 2 yloxy phenol and an appropriate haloalkenoate, the com pounds in Table 1 can be prepared. Table 1EMI13.1 R1 R2 NDH C2H5 1.5606CH3 CH3 1.5790CH3 CH2 3CH3CH3 CH CH3 C2H5CH3 CH2CH CH3 2C2H5 CH3 1.5628 CH2OCH3 CH CH3 2CH3 CH2CH2OC2H5CH3 C2H5 1.5589CH3 CH CH3 2CH3 C CH3 3CH3 CH2CH2CE3CH3 CH2CH2OCH3H CH3C2H5 CH2CH2 CH2OCH3 Example III 4 4 3,5 dichloropyridin 2 yloxy phenoxy 2 pentenoic acid To 13.0 grams of methyl 4 4 3,5 dichloro pyridin 2 yloxy phenoxy 2 pentenoate in a 250 mlEvlenmeyer flask, 11.0 grams of 50 sodium hydroxide was added, followed by the addition of 50 ml of methanol and 10 ml of distilled water. Initially, the mixture was warmed on a steam bath for 5 minutes to form a solution which was then stirred at room temperature for 2.5 hours. Excess water 150 ml was added and the solution neutralized with glacial acetic acid.The oily solid, which precipitated immediately, was extracted into 200 ml of ethyl acetate and separated. After washing the organic phase with brine, drying MgSO4 , and filtering, the solvent was evaporated to yield an oily residue which was crystallized from l chlorobutane, yield 5.5 g, m.p. 143 145 . NMR CDC13 d 1.35 d, 3H, CH3 4.50 5.00 m, 1H, allylic hydrogen 5.70 6.15 m s, vinylic proton 6.60 7.45, 7.60 7.90 m s, ArH and vinylic proton . IR Nujol 5.85 c o , 12.00 broad microns. By hydrolysis of an appropriate ester employing the procedure of Example III, the carboxylic acids in Table 2 can be prepared. Table 2EMI15.1 Example IVSodium 4 4 3,5 dichloropyridin 2 yloxy phenoxy 2 pentenoate A mixture of 1.2 grams 4 4 3,5 dichloropyridin 2 yloxy phenoxy 2 pentenoic acid and 0.2 grams powdered sodium hydroxide in 5 ml of methanol in a 50 ml flask was warmed on a steam bath for 10 minutes. After cooling to room temperature, excess ethyl ether was added with stirring and the insoluble product filtered, washed with ether and dried, yield 0.9 grams, m.p. 238 245 dec. . NMR tfa D d 1.65 d, 3H, CH3 4.95 5.20 m, 1H, allylic hydrogen 6.05 6.40 m s, 1H, vinylic proton 7.10 7.60, 8.15 8.65 m s, ArH and vinylic proton . IR Nujol 6.0 c c , 12.00 broad microns. Example VPotassium 4 4 3, 5 dichloropyridin 2 yloxy phenoxy 2 pentenoate In a 50 ml flask, a solution of 1.2 grams of 4 4 3, 5 dichloropyridin 2 yloxy phenoxy 2 pentenoic acid and 0.3 grams powdered potassium hydroxide in 5 ml of methanol was warmed on a steam bath for 10 minutes. Under reduced pressure, the solvent was removed and the remaining solid suspended in ethyl ether and filtered, yield 1.0 grams, m.p. 217 2260 dec. . N IR tfa D d 1.65 d, 3H, CH3 4.95 5.20 m, 1H, allylic hydrogen 6.00 6.40 m s, 1H, vinylic proton 6.95 7.60, 8.10 8.60 m s, ArH and vinylic proton . IR Nujol 6.00 c c , 12.00 broad microns. By treatment of the appropriate carboxylic acid with a suitable base such as ammonia, an amine, quaternary ammonium hydroxide, or alkali metal or alkaline earth hydroxide, hydride, carbonate, or bicarbonate, the following carboxylic acid salts may be prepared by the methods of Examples IV andV. Table 3EMI17.1 R1 n M m.p. C H 1 NaCH3 1 Na 238 2450 dec. CH3 1 K 217 2260 dec. CH3 1 LiCH3 1 HOCH2CH2 3NH CH3 1 NH4CH3 1 CH3NH3 C H 2 MgCH3 2 CaCH2OCH3 2 CaC2H5 1 HOCH2CH2 2NH2CH2OCH3 1 C 3 2NH2 CH3 1 HOCH2CH2NH3CH3 1 CH3 3NHCH3 1 CH3 4NCH3 1 CH3CH2 3NHCH3 1 HOCH2CH2 2NH2 Example VI N Methyl 4 4 3, 5 dichloropyridin 2 yloxy phenoxy 2 pentenamide The following procedure can be employed to make the title compound. To a mixture of 2.0 grams 4 4 3,5 dichloropyridin 2 yloxy phenoxy 2 pentenoic acid and 7 ml of toluene stirring magnetically in a 100 ml RB flask, 2.0 ml of oxalyl chloride was added at 00. Gradually, the stirred suspension was allowed to reach room temperature. After stirring overnight at room temperature, the initial suspension changed to a clear orange solution. Under reduced pressure, the toluene and excess oxalyl chloride was removed and the crude off white acid chloride remained. With cooling in an icebath, 25 ml of 40 methylamine solution was slowly added with occasional stirring by spatula. After stirring for 10 minutes, excess water was added and the oily brown insoluble solid was extracted into 150 ml of a ethyl acetate ethyl ether mixture 1 1 .The extract was washed twice with brine, dried MgS04 , filtered and evaporated to yield an oily residue which was crystallized from l chlorobutane, yield 1.0 gram, m.p. 147 149 . NMR tfa D d 1.60 d, 3H, CH3 3.20 s, 3H, CH3 5.00 5.45 m, lH, allylic hydrogen 6.25 6.75 m s, lH, vinylic proton 7.00 7.50, 8.05 8.70 m s, ArH and vinylic proton . IR Nujol 3.0 NH , 5.90 c o , 6.10 c c , 12.00 microns. By treatment of an appropriate acid chloride with an appropriate amine, by the procedure ofExample VI, the amides in Table 4 are prepared. Table 4EMI19.1 R1 R3 R4 m.p. C H H HCH3 H H 148 151 H CH3 HCH3 CH3 H 147 149 CH3 OCH3 CH3CH3 CH3CH3 CH2CH2CH3 HCH3 L CH3 CH CH3 2 HC2H5 CH3 C2H5CH2OCH3 CH3 CH CH3 2CH3 CH CH3 2 CH CH3 2CH3 C2H5 HCH3 CH CH3 2 H Example VIIMethyl 4 4 3,5 dichloropyridin 2 yloxy phenoxy 2 pentenethioate The following procedure can be employed to make tht title compound. To a mixture of 6.9 g of 4 4 3,5 dichloro pyridin 2 yloxy phenoxy 2 pentenoyl chloride and 2.0 g of triethylamine in 30 ml of methylene chloride, cooled in an ice acetone bath, add dropwise 1.1 ml of liquified methanethiol. Allow the reaction mixture to warm to room temperature, stir for 1 hqur, and wash with water. Remove methylene chloride under vacuum to afford methyl 4 4 3,5dichlorqpyridin 2 yloxy phenoxy 2 pentenethioate. By treatment of an appropriate acid chloride with an appropirate mercaptan following the procedure of Example VII, the thiolesters listed in Table 5 can be obtained. Table 5EMI20.1 R1 R5 H CH3CH3 CH3CH3 C 2H5 CH3 CH CH3 2CH3 CH2CH2CH2CH3 C 2R5 CH3 CH2OCH3 C2H5 CH3 CH CH3 C2R5 CH3 CH2CH CH3 2 Example VIII 4 4 3,5 dichloropyridin 2 yloxy phenoxy 2 pentenenitrile In a 100 ml RB flask, a mixture of 3.5 grams 4 3,5 dichloropyridin 2 yloxy phenol, 3.5 grams potassium carbonate, and 3.5 grams of 4 bromo 2pentenenitrile was stirred magnetically in 35 ml of dry acetonitrile at room temperature for 4 days.Ethyl ether 60 ml was added to the mixture and the resulting dark suspension filtered and the insoluble material washed with ether. The volume of the filtrate was increased to 350 ml by adding ethyl ether and then washed twice with water, once with saturated sodium bicarbonate and once with brine. After drying over MgSO4 and filtering, the solvent was evaporated to yield an oil, which was purified by silica gel column chromatography methylene chloride as the eluent and subsequent crystallization from hexane, yield 1.5 g, m.p. 93 960. NT R CDC13 d 1.45 d, 3H, CH3 4.70 5.20 m, 1H, allylic proton 5.45 5.85 m s, 1H, vinylic proton 6.60 7.30, 7.70 8.00 m s, ArH, and vinylic proton . IR Nujol 4.44 C N , 9.37, 11.95 broad microns. Example IX 4 4 3,5 dichloropyridin 2 yloxy phenoxy 2 butenenitrile To a mixture of 1.9 grams 4 3,5 dichloropyridin 2 yloxy phenol, 3.0 grams of potassium carbonate and 40 ml of methyl ethyl ketone stirring magnetically in a 100 ml RB flask, 4.0 grams 4bromo 2 butenenitrile was added and the mixture heated under reflux for 24 hours. Ethyl ether 150 ml was added at room temperature and the black suspension filtered and the insoluble material washed with ether. After transferring to a separatory funnel, the filtrate was washed with saturated sodium carbonate and water, dried MgSO4 , charcoal filtered and evaporated to yield a dark oil, which was purified by silica gel column chromatography l chlorobutane as the 25 eluent , yield 1.5 g ND 1.5681. IR neat 4.40 cm , 6.60, 7.00, 8.35, 12.00 broad microns. Example XOxazole 3,5 dichloropyridin 2 yloxy phenoxy 2 pentenyl 4,5 dihydro 4,4 dimethyl To 0.6 grams of N l,l dimethyl 2 hydroxy ethyl 4 4 3,5 dichloropyridin 2 yloxy phenoxy 2 pentenamide in a 50 ml flask, 1 ml of thionyl chloride was added and the mixture stirred at ambient temperature for 3.5 hours. Under reduced pressure, the excess thionyl chloride was removed and the remaining solid treated with saturated sodium bicarbonate, before extracting into 100 ml of ethyl ether. After washing with brine, the ether layer was dried MgSO4 , filtered and evaporated to yield 0.4 g of crude isoxazoline. IR neat 6.68 C N , 8.40, 9.40, 12.70 broad microns. The compounds in Table 6 may be prepared by methods analogous to those used in the preceedingExamples VIII, IX and X. Table 6EMI24.1 EMI24.2 tb SEP R1 SEP W SEP ND25 tb SEP H SEP CN SEP 1.5681 tb SEP CH3 SEP CN SEP 1.5572 tb SEP C2R5 SEP CN tb SEP 0 tb SEP H SEP CC1 tb SEP O tb SEP , SEP .. tb SEP CH3 SEP CC1 tb SEP CH3 SEP C tb SEP uOv tb SEP CR3 tb SEP N tb SEP CH3 SEP C SEP 1 SEP CH3 tb SEP C SEP CR tb SEP CR3 tb SEP H SEP C tb SEP xO tb Formulations Useful formulations of the compounds ofFormula I can be prepared in conventional ways.They include dusts, granules, pellets, solutions, suspensions, emulsions, wettable powders, emulsions, concentrates and the like. Many of these may be applied directly. Sprayable formulations can be extended in suitable media and used at spray volumes of from a few pints to several hundred gallons per acre. High strength compositions are primarily used as intermediates for further formulation. The formulations, broadly, contain about 1 to 99 by weight of active ingredient s and at least one of a about 0.1 to 20 surfactant s and b about 1 to 99 solid or liquid diluent s .More specifically, they will contain these ingredients in the following approximate proportions Percent by Weight Active Ingredient Diluent s Surfactant s Wettable Powder 20 90 0 74 1 10Oil Suspensions Emulsions, Solu tions including Emulsifiable Con centrates 5 50 40 95 0 15Aqueous Suspen sions 10 50 40 84 1 20Dusts 1 25 70 99 0 5Granules and Pellets 1 95 5 99 0 15High Strength Compositions 90 99 0 10 0 2 Lower or higher levels of active ingredient can, of course, be present depending on the intended use and the physical properties of the compound.Higher ratios of surfactant to active ingredient are sometimes desirable, and are achieved by incorporation into the formulation or by tank mixing. Typical solid diluents are described inWatkins, et al., Handbook of Insecticide DustDiluents and Carriers , 2nd. Edn., Dorland Books, Caldweil, N.J. The more absorptive diluents are preferred for wettable powders and the denser ones for dusts. Typical liquid diluents and solvents are described in Marsden, Solvent Guide , 2nd. Edn.,Interscience, New York, 1950. Solubility under 0.1 is preferred for suspension concentrates solution concentrates are preferably stable against phase separation at OOC. McCutcheon s Detergents andEmulsifiers Annual , MC Publishing Co., Ridgewood,N.J., as well as Sisely and Wood, Encyclopedia ofSurface Active Agents , Chemical Publ. Co., Inc.,New York, 1964, list surfactants and recommended uses.All formulations can contain minor amounts of additives to reduce foaming, caking, corrosion, microbiological growth, etc. Preferably, ingredients should be approved by the U.S. Environmental ProtectionAgency for the use intended. The methods of making such compositions are well known. Solutions are prepared by simply mixing the ingredients. Fine solid compositions are made by blending and, usually, grinding as in a hammer or fluid energy mill. Suspensions are prepared by wet milling see, for example, Littler, U.S. Patent 3,060,084 . Granules and pellets may be made by spraying the active material upon performed granular carriers or by agglomeration techniques. See J. E. Browning, Agglomeration , Chemical Engineering,December 4, 1967, pp. 147ff. and Perry s ChemicalEngineer s Handbook , 4th Edn., McGraw Hill, t1.Y., 1963, pp. 8 59ff. For further information regarding the art of formulation, see for example H. M. LQux, U.S. Patent 3,235,361, February 15, 1966, Col. 6, line 16 through Col. 7, line 19 andExamples 10 through 41 R. W. Luckenbaugh, U.S. Patent 3,309,192,March 14, 1967, Col. 5, line 43 through Col. 7, line 62 and Examples 8, 12, 15, 39, 41, 52, 53, 58, 132, 138 140, 162 164, 166, 167 and 169 182 H. Gysin and E. Kntsli, U.S. Patent 2,891,855,June 23, 1959, Col. 3, line 66 through Col. 5, line 17 and Examples 1 4 G. C. Klingman, Weed Control as a Science ,John Wiley Sons, Inc., New York, 1961, pp. 81 96 J. D. Fryer and S. A. Evans, Weed Control Handbook , 5th Edn., Blackwell Scientific Publications, Oxford, 1968, pp. 101 103. A. Wettable Powder Methyl 4 l4 3,5 dichloropvridin 2 yloxy phenoxy2 2 pentenoate 35 hydrous calcium silicate 61 sodium ligninsulfonate 3 sodium dioctylsulfosuccinate 1 The ingredients are thoroughly blended, passed through a hammer mill and sifted through aU.S.S. No. 50 sieve 0.3 mm openings before packaging. All compounds of the invention can be formulated in similar manner.B. Solution Methyl 4 f 4 3,5 dichlor6pyridin 2yloxy Fhenoxy 2 pentenoate 50 dimethylformamide 50 The ingredients are stirred together to make a solution for direct low volume application.C. Granule Solution of Example B 10 attapulgite granules 0.71 0.30 mm 90 The solution is sprayed upon the performed clay granules in a double cone blender.D. Emulsifiable Concentrates Methyl 4 14 3,5 dichloropyridin 2 yloxy phenoxy3 2 pentenoate 30 blend of oil soluble sulfonates and polyoxy ethylene ethers 6 cyclohexanone 64 The ingredients are combined and stirred with gentle warming to speed mixing. A fine screen filter is included in the packaging operation to remove any extraneous undissolved material. Compositions can contain, in addition to the active ingredients of this invention, other conventional agricultural chemicals such as fertilizers, plant growth modifiers or herbicides. For example, the compounds of Formula I can be combined with the following herbicides 1 5 tert butyl 3 2,4 dichloro 5 isopropoxy phenyl 1,3, 4 oxadiazol 2 one 2 6 methylthio 2,4 bis ethylamino s triazine 3 3 isopropyl lH benzo 2,1,3 thidiazin 4 one 2,2 dioxide 4 2,4 dichlorophenoxyacetic acid and related esters and salts 5 S 2,2,3 trichloroallyl diisopropylthiocar bamate 6 Methyl 2 t 2,4 dichlorophenoxy phenoxy propanoate 7 1, 2 dimethyl 3 , 5 diphenyl lH pyrazolium methyl sulfate and 8 4 chloro 2 butynyl 3 chlorocarbanilate. The compounds of Formula I can also be combined with other herbicides and are particularly useful in combination with bromacil 3 sec butyl 5 bromo 6 methyluracil , diuron 3, 3,4 dichloro phenyl l,l dimethylurea , 3 cyclohexyl 1 methyl 6 dimethylamino s triazine 2,4 1H,3H dione, paraquat l,l dimethyl 4,4 bipyridinum ion , m 3,3 di methylureido phenyl tert butylcarbamate, 2 methyl4 chlorophenoxyacetic acid, its salts or esters, 4 amino 6 tert butyl 3 methylthio as thio as triazine 5 4H one bentazone 3 isopropyl lH 2,1,3 benzothiadiazin 4 3H one 2,2 dioxide, and linuron 3 3,4dichlorophenyl l methoxy l methyl urea for controlling a broad spectrum of weeds. The agricultural chemicals listed above are examplary of the compounds which can be mixed with the active compounds and are not intended to limit the invention in any way.Use The compounds of the present invention are useful when applied as pre and or post emergence treatments for broad spectrum control of a wide variety of weed and brush species growing on industrial sites, storage lots, along fences and building foundations, along railroad and utility rights of way, etc. In addition, the compounds of the invention have utility for weed control in certain crops, such as soybean, cotton, sugarbeets and beans. These herbicides are particularly useful for selectively removing and controlling grass weeds, including volunteer corn, in broadleaf crops including soybeans, cotton, sugarbeets, beans, flax, cabbage, tomatoes, potatoes, peanuts, carrots, cucurbits, endive, beets, etc. Grassweeds include crabgrass, Digitaria.spp. , foxtail Setaria spp. , barnyardgrass Echinochloa crusgalli , wild oats Avena fatua , johnsongrass Sorghum hlepense , fall panicum Leptoloma ccanatum , cheatgrass Bromus tectorum , quackgrass Agropyron repens , and orchardgrass Dactylis glomerata . Compounds of this invention show a remarkable and unexpected degree of safety to broadleaf crops and an unusual phytotoxicity to grass weeds.whether applied to the soil before weeds and crops emerge, that is, preemergence or whether applied postemergence including spraying on the weeds and crops. In addition, the compounds are useful when applied as preemergence or postemergence treatments aione and in combination with other herbicides or surfactants for broad spectrum control of a wide variety of weeds and brush species growing on industrial sites, on storage lots and along fences, building foundations, railroad, highway and utility rights of way etc. Compounds of the present invention are considered to show an unexpected degree of safety on broadleaf crops as demonstrated by use of methyl 4 4 3,5 dichloropyridin 2 yloxy phenoxyi 2 pentenoate on soybean, cotton and beans. Compounds of the present invention are also considered to show an unexpected degree of safety on wheat.The compound methyl 4 4 3,5 dichloropyridin 2 yloxy phenoxy 2 pentenoate has been shown to selectively control weeds in wheat while the closely related compound methyl 4 4 3 tri fluoromethylpyridin 2 yloxy phenoxy 2 pentenOate caused severe wheat injury. The precise amount of the compounds of this invention to be used in any particular situation will vary widely according to the end result desired. Factors effecting the optimum rate of application include the plant species to be controlled, soil type, formulation used, prevailing weather conditions, foliage density, length of time for which residual activity is desired, etc.Broadly speaking, the compounds are used at levels at about 0.06 to 20 kilograms per hectare, preferably approximately 0.125 to 5 kilograms per hectare.In general, the higher rates of application from within this range will be selected for adverse conditions or where extended persistence in soil is desired, and the lower rates for weed control in crops. The herbicides effectively control grass weeds as demonstrated by the examples, but they do not control broadleaf weeds at low application rates.To obtain control of a wider spectrum of both broadleaf and grass weeds, combination treatments consisting of compounds of this invention with other herbicides effective on broadleaf weeds may be used to advantage. Combination treatments may be used with the components applied simultaneously as in a tank mix or mixed formulation, or sequentially with either or both components applied preplant incorporated, preemergence, postemergence, postemergencedirected, broadcast, band or spot treatment or any combination of these methods.The following examples of combination utility are cited Compounds of this invention with Other Herbicide Use bentazon post Soybeans 2,4 DB post Peanuts, Soybeans Alfalfa, Clover Simazin pre Nursery, Citrus, Peaches, Established Alfalfa pyrazon pre early post Sugarbeets silvex Fence lines, rights of ways dichloroprop post Brush, Release of EvergreensMCPB early post peas dicamba pre flax and rape desmediphaw post Sugarbeets prometryn pre Celery and CottonPhenmedipham post Sugarbeets acifluorofen Blazer post Soybeans 2 chloro N 4 methoxy 6 methyl 1,3,5 triazin 2 yl aminocarbonyl benzene sulfonamide Wheat and flax l methylethyl 2 4,6 di methoxy 1,3,5 triazin 2 yl aminocarbonyl amino sulfonyl benzoate Wheat and flax l methylethyl 2 4 methoxy 6 methyl 1,3,5 triazin 2 yl aminocarbonyl amino sulfonyl benzoate Wheat and flax dinoseb post Soybeans lenacil pre Sugarbeets bromoxynil post Wheat and barley fluometuron pre Cotton Example XI Seeds of crabgrass Digitaria spp. , barn yardgrass Echinochloa crusgalli , wild oats Avena fatua , Cassia tora, morningglory Ipomoea spp. , cocklebur Xanthium spp. , sorghum, corn, soybean, rice, wheat and nutsedge tubers were planted in a growth medium and treated preemergence with the chemicals dissolved in a nonphytotoxic solvent. At the same time, cotton having five leaves in cluding cotyledonary ones , bush beans with the third trifoliate leaf expanding, crabgrass with two leaves, barnyardgrass with two leaves, wild oats with one leaf, cassia with three leaves in cluding cotyledonary ones , morningglory with four leaves including the cotyledonary ones , cocklebur with four leaves including the cotyledonary ones , sorghum with three leaves, corn with three leaves, soybean with two cotyledonary leaves, rice with two leaves, wheat with one leaf, and nutsedge with three five leaves were sprayed. Treated plants and controls were maintained in a greenhouse for sixteen days. All species were compared to controls and visually rated for response to treatment seven and sixteen days after treatment.The ratings are based on a numerical scale extending from 0 no injury, .t rto 10 no kill. The accompanying descriptive sym bols have the following meanings B burn G growth retardation C chlorosis necrosis U unusual pigmentation E emergence inhibition and H formative effects. The ratings for the compound tested by this procedure are shown in Table 7 for 7 days after treating. Table 7EMI35.1 tb SEP o tb SEP u tb SEP z SEP 0 tb SEP w SEP u tb SEP ev SEP x tb SEP I SEP 2 SEP 1 tb SEP HX SEP X tb SEP u SEP ,O tb SEP u SEP ri tb SEP kg ha SEP 2 SEP ass tb SEP POST EMERGENCE tb SEP BUSHBEAN SEP O SEP SEP . SEP 0 tb SEP COTTON SEP O tb SEP MORNINGGLORY SEP O SEP 1 SEP 0 tb SEP COCKLEBUR SEP O SEP O SEP SEP SEP 0 tb SEP CASSIA SEP 0 tb SEP NUTSEDGE SEP O SEP 0 tb SEP w tb SEP CRABGRASS SEP lOC SEP 9H tb SEP BARSEARDGRASS SEP lOC SEP 3C,9H tb SEP WILD SEP OAIS SEP 7C SEP i SEP 2S,5H tb SEP HEAT SEP 5C SEP 0 tb SEP CORN SEP 5C SEP 2S,7H tb SEP SOYBEAN SEP O SEP 0 tb SEP RICE SEP 3C,9G SEP 1 SEP iC tb SEP SORGHUM SEP 9C SEP 2S, H tb SEP fRE EMERGECE tb SEP MORIGGIORY SEP O SEP 0 tb SEP COCKLEBUR SEP O SEP 0 tb i SEP CASSIA SEP O SEP o tb SEP h UTSEDGE SEP 0 SEP 1 SEP 0 tb SEP COCKLEBUR SEP SEP O SEP O SEP SEP tb SEP CASSIA SEP O SEP 0 tb SEP NUTSEDGE SEP O tb SEP CRABGRASS SEP bC,8G tb SEP BARNYARDGRASS SEP iCC SEP 9H tb SEP WILD SEP OATS SEP 2C SEP 8G SEP SEP 5G tb SEP WHEAT SEP 4G SEP 1 SEP o tb SEP CORN SEP 5C,9G SEP 2C SEP 9H tb SEP SOYBEAN SEP O SEP O tb SEP RICE SEP i SEP 9G SEP . SEP 2C,7G tb SEP L,rv SEP zzj tb SEP SORGHUM SEP OC,YG SEP 9G tb Table 7 continued EMI36.1 tb SEP m tb SEP o tb SEP o SEP 0 tb SEP o SEP o SEP C SEP 0 tb SEP 1 tb SEP o SEP 0 tb SEP U SEP n tb SEP 0 tb SEP U U SEP 0 tb SEP UIU SEP 0 tb SEP o tb SEP o SEP o tb SEP 4 tb SEP o SEP OZ tb POST EMERGENCE SEP SEP . SEP . tb BÜSHBEALS SEP O SEP O SEP O SEP O tb COTTON SEP 1B SEP O SEP u tb NORNINGGLORY SEP O SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 tb COCKLEBUR SEP 1B SEP O SEP 0 SEP 0 tb CASSIA SEP 1B SEP O SEP 0 SEP 0 tb NUTSEDGE SEP SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 tb CRABGRASS SEP 100 SEP lOC SEP lOC SEP loc tb BARdBYARDGRASS SEP 100 SEP lOC SEP lOC SEP lOC tb WILD SEP OATS SEP 100 SEP lOC SEP C SEP 80 tb iMEAT SEP 4G SEP 1C SEP 8C SEP 50 tb CORN SEP 8C SEP 100 SEP 1 SEP C tb SEP SOYBEAN SEP 100 SEP i SEP 100 SEP 2C SEP C tb RICE SEP 96 SEP 9G SEP 9C SEP 9G tb SEP SORGHUM SEP 100 SEP lOC SEP lOC SEP lOC SEP C tb PRE EMERGEN CE tb MORNINGGLORY SEP SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 36 SEP 0 tb SEP COCKLEBUR SEP O SEP 0 SEP i tb SEP CASSIA SEP O SEP 0 SEP 0 tb NUTSEDGE SEP O SEP O tb SEP CRABGRASS SEP 10E SEP IOE SEP lOE SEP SEP lOE tb SEP BARNYARDGRASS SEP IOE SEP I SEP lOE SEP i SEP 10C SEP OE tb SEP WILD SEP OATS SEP IOE SEP SEP IOE SEP SEP 100 SEP I SEP SC tb SEP WHEAT SEP 7G SEP 6G tb SEP CORN SEP 9G SEP 9G SEP SEP 9G tb SEP SOYBEAN SEP O SEP O SEP O SEP O tb SEP RICE SEP lOE SEP 10E SEP OE tb SEP SORGHUM5 SEP lOE SEP 1 SEP 9G SEP SEP zOE SEP OF.10E tb Table 7 continued EMI37.1 tb SEP vl tb SEP SEP ll tb SEP N SEP z tb SEP u SEP u tb SEP o tb SEP U SEP o SEP o tb SEP rl tb SEP tb SEP CZ tb kg ha SEP 0.4 SEP 0.4 tb POST RGENCE SEP 1 tb SEP 1 SEP 0 tb SEP BL1SHBEAN SEP 1 SEP C, SEP li tb SEP COTTON SEP i SEP eG tb SEP MORNINGGLORY SEP O SEP a SEP C tb SEP COCKLEBUR SEP O tb SEP t tb SEP CXSSIA SEP 1C SEP O tb SEP o tb SEP h r SEDGE SEP I SEP 0 tb SEP CRBGFSS SEP 10C SEP I SEP 2H tb SEP BfIGRSS SEP loc SEP lo tb SEP WILD SEP OATS SEP SEP 5C SEP I tb SEP iEkT SEP I SEP ii SEP i tb SEP CfLI SEP 4C SEP I tb SEP SOYEAN SEP 1C10 tb SEP RICE SEP 9C SEP 0 tb SEP SORGHUM SEP I SEP 100 SEP r SEP 6R tb PRE ERGBCE SEP i tb SEP 0 SEP 0 tb SEP YGPwNI GGLORY SEP O SEP O SEP W SEP 0 tb SEP COC .s5 BER SEP SEP O SEP O tb SEP CASSIA SEP 2C SEP O SEP tb SEP NtlT EDvE SEP O SEP O tb SEP CRtBGRASS SEP lOE SEP , SEP 2G SEP SEP BARS SEP RDG9uA S SEP lOC SEP 3S.8H SEP tb SEP WILD SEP OATS SEP 8G SEP 9c SEP 4r tb SEP sEEAI SEP 2G SEP O tb SEP CORN SEP 9G SEP G tb SEP SOR DD.N SEP 2H SEP O tb SEP RI SEP CE SEP 10E SEP SEP tb SEP SGRGHl SEP 9G SEP SEP 2s, SEP S tb Table 7 continued EMI38.1 tb SEP Cl SEP wOCHCH CHC02CH3 tb SEP ¹ SEP C,2R5 tb SEP N SEP 3 tb SEP kglha SEP 2 tb kglha SEP 2 tb SEP POST EMERGENCE tb SEP BUSHBEAN SEP O tb SEP COTTON SEP O tb SEP MORNINGGLORY SEP O tb SEP COCKLEBUR SEP O tb SEP CASSIA SEP O tb SEP NUTSEDGE SEP O tb SEP CRABGRASS SEP ,C tb SEP BARYYARDGRASS SEP 7C tb SEP WILD SEP OATS SEP Rr SEP r tb SEP vV tb SEP EAT SEP O tb SEP RICE SEP O tb SEP SORGHUM SEP 3G tb SEP PRE EMERGENCE tb SEP MORNINGGLORY SEP O tb SEP COCKLEBUR SEP O tb SEP CASSIA SEP O tb SEP NUTSEDGE SEP O tb SEP CR9BGRASS SEP se tb SEP BARNYARDGRASS SEP 9C SEP i tb SEP WILI SEP OATS SEP 76 tb SEP WHEAT SEP 6G tb SEP SOYBEAN SEP 4G tb SEP RICE SEP SEP lOE tb SEP SORGHITI SEP 7G tb