# A tool mounting and a cutter drum for earth excavating machines.

## Abstract
A tool mounting for earth excavating machines which in use is exposed to high axial forces. For purposes of decreas ing the standstill during replacement of the tool holder, the latter is formed as a readily detachable adapter. The tool and the adapter may be an integral unit so that the two members are jointly replaced.

## Claims
WHAT I CLAIM IS 1. In a planing machine for pavement profiling of the type comprising a rotating drum 16 having a helical ring 17 mounted thereon, a tool mounting comprising an elongated outwardly open groove 21 extending in the rotational direction of said drum, a first contact surface 35 on said ring, said first contact surface being located in said groove radially inwardly of the periphery of said ring, and a second contact surface 37 on said zing, said second contact surface being located radially outwardly of the periphery of said ring, said first and second contact surfaces 35,37 being opposed and converging in the rotational direction of said drum, thereby being adapted for securing thereto a cutting tool 18 by wedge action. 2. A tool mounting according to claim 1, wherein the major portion of the first contact surface 35 is located at the one side of a radial centre plane 30 through the ring 17 . 3. A tool mounting according to claim 2, wherein a first angle รงt between the radius R of the drum 16 and the second contact surface 37 is larger than a second angle between the radius R of the drum and the first contact surface 35 . 4. A tool mounting according to claim 3, wherein said first angle is obtuse and said second angle is acute. 5. A tool mounting according to claim 1, wherein at least one side wall 32 of the groove 21 and the side walls of the ring 17 run in parallel directions0 6. In a planing machine for pavement profiling of the type comprising a rotating drum 16 having a helical ring 17 mounted thereon. a tool mounting 22 on said ring, said tool mounting having an elongated outwardly open groove 21 extending in the rotational direction of said drum, a first contact surface 35 on said tool mounting, and a second contact surface 37 on said tool mounting, the major portion of said first contact surface being located in said groove 21 at the one side of a central plane 30 through said ring, said first and second contact surfaces 35,37 being opposed and converging in the rotational direction of said drum, thereby being adapted for securing thereto a cutting tool 18 by wedge action. 7. An assembly of a cutter drum 16 and cutting tool holders 19 for a road planing machine, said cutter drum having a helical ring 17 mounted thereon and each holder 19 being mounted by a tongue and groove connection comprising an outwardly open groove 21 formed in said ring, said groove including opposite side walls 32,33 extending in the direction of said ring, a first projection 34 extending laterally from one 33 of said side walls toward the other side wall, said first projection including a first contact surface 35 forming therebeneath an undercut portion 36 of said groove extending in the direction of said ring, said first projection terminating short of the front end of said groove to define an enlarged opening, said ring including a second contact surface 37 spaced outwardly of said first contact surface and extending at an angle relative thereto, and a tc gus o pr s aLL e ltAs on 20 Cf said cutting tool holder, one of the side walls of said extension including a second projection 23 extending laterally in the opposite direction relative to said first projection, said second projection including a third contact surface 24 , said cutting tool holder including a fourth contact surface 25 spaced outwardly of said third contact surface and extending at an angle relative thereto, said enlarged opening to said groove being sized to receive said extension and said second projection such that upon movement of said cutting tool holder toward the rear end of said groove, said second projection travels along said undercut portion of said groove, with said first and third contact surfaces and said second and fourth contact surfaces contacting one another to wedgingly secure said cutting tool holder to said cutter drum. 8. An assembly according to claim 7, wherein the first and second contact surfaces 35,37 are planar and convergent and the third and fourth contact surfaces 24,25 are planar and convergent. 9. An assembly according to claim 8, wherein said first projection comprises a pin 34 mounted in said one side wall 33 of the groove 21 and extending generally in the direction of the ring 17 . 10. An assembly according to claim 9, wherein said second projection 23 is defined by a recess in said tongue, said recess shaped similar to said pin and receiving the latter when said cutting tool holder is inserted into said groove. 11. An assembly according to any of claims 7 10, wherein said groove 21 is formed in a generally rectangular casing 22 , said casing being attached to the ring 17 , preferably by welding. 12. An assembly according to any of claims 7 11, wherein said cutting tool holder comprises an adapter 19 on which said third and fourth contact surfaces 24,25 are provided. 13. An assembly according to claim 12, wherein the cutting tool 18 is rotatably mounted in said adapter 19 . 14. An assembly according to claim 13, wherein said adapter 19 is provided with locking means 28 for securing said cutting tool 18 against axial withdrawal out of said adapter while permitting rotation of said cutting tool. 15. An assembly according to claim 14, wherein said locking means comprises a second pin 28 mounted inthe adapter 19 , said second pin projecting into an annular recess 29 on the cutting tool 18 . 16. A cutting tool holder intended to be attached to the cutter head of a machine for extraction of earth formations comprising an adapter 19 , said adapter having an extension 20 , said extension comprising a projection 23 which projects from said extension at the end thereof opposite to the cutting tool 18 , said projection including a first contact surface 24 , said adapter including a second contact surface 25 located between said first contact surface and the cutting edge 26 of said cutting tool, said first and second contact surfaces extending at an angle relative to one another, a bore 27 in said adapter for receiving said cutting tool, and locking means 28,29 in said adapter for preventing unintentional withdrawal of said cutting tool out of said bore. 17. A tool holder according to claim 16, wherein said locking means comprises a pin 28 which projects into an annular recess 29 on the cutting tool so as to permit rotation thereof. t A taVOl ii holder according to claim ib, wherein said first and second contact surfaces 24,25 converge in the working direction of the cutting tool 18 . 19. A tool holder according to any of claims 16 18, wherein said first and second contact surfaces 24,25 are intended to cooperate with corresponding surfaces 35,37 on the cutter head to wedgingly secure the adapter 19 thereto.

## Description
TOOL MOUNTINGThe present invention relates to earth excavating machines in general and more particularly to the attachment of cutting tools to such machines.According to one aspect of the invention the improved attachment is applied in road planing machines of the type comprising a rotating cutter drum on which a helical flange or ring is mounted0 Tungsten carbide tipped steel teeth are mounted on the flanges When the cutter drum rotates the teeth strip away concrete or asphalt pavement surfaces to a desired depth. The removed concrete may be re used as a base material and the removed asphalt may be used on secondary roads, reprocessed into a high quality mix or stock piled for use later on.In known road planing machines the teeth are mounted in tool holders which are attached to the flange by welding. In use high axial forces are applied on the teeth which means that the teeth will penetrate backwards into the tool holders, thereby damaging the latter. When a tool holder is to be replaced it has to be cut loose, whereupon a new tool holder is secured to the flange by welding. This is a time consuming and, due to the high machine cost, expensive operation.One object of the invention is to decrease the down time during replacement of a tool holder. This is attained by mounting the cutting tooth in an adapter and wedgingly securing the adapter to the drum so that the adapter is readily attach able and detachable.Another object of the invention is to increase the lengths of the replacement intervals of the tool holders. This is attained by using รง large wedge surface on the tool holder for taking up the axial forces acting on the tooth, thereby preventing the teeth from penetrating backwards. According to a general aspect of the invention the improved tool holder including an adapter is applied in earth excavating machines in general, particularly machines fcr extraction of earth formations such as coal and rock.The above and other objects of the invention are attained by giving the invention the characterizing features stated in the appending claims. The invention is described in detail in the following description with reference to the accompanying drawings in which two embodiments are shown by way of example. It is to be understood that these embodiments are only illustrative of the invention and that various modifications thereof may be made within the scope of the claims.In the drawings, Fig. 1 shows a side view of a road planing machine in which the invention is applied.Fig. 2 shows a perspective view of a cutter drum in the read planing machine.Fig. 3 shows in section a cutting tool mounted in a tool holder.Fig. 4 is a section taken on the line IV IV in Fig. 3. Fig. 5 is a section taken on the line V V in Fig. 3e Fig. 6 shows in section a cutting tool mounted in a tool holder according to another embodiment of the invention.The road planing machine 10 comprises a three point crawler suspension 11,12, an engine 13, an operators control console 14 and a rotary cutter assembly generally aenotea Dy 15. fhe removed material is brought to a pickup conveyor 38 which transports the material to a load out conveyor 31 from which the material is loaded on a truck. The rotary cutter assembly 15 comprises a rotary drum 16 on which a helical ring or flange 17 is attached. A plurality of cutting tools 18 are mounted on the flange 17 under mutual spacing. The cutting tool 18 is provided with a cemented carbide tip 26.In the embodiment according to Figs. 3 5 the cutting tool 18 is mounted in a tool holder which comprises an adapter 19.The adapter 19 has a tongue comprising an extension 20 which projects into an outwardly open groove 21 in a tool mounting comprising a casing 22. The casing 22 is welded to the flange 17. It is to be understood that the casing 22 forms part of the flange 17. The groove 21, thus, can be made directly in the flange. The extension 20 comprises a projection 23 which includes an outwardly directed contact surface 24. The adapter 19 includes a contact surface 25 which is located between the contact surface 24 and the tool tip 26. The contact surfaces 24,25 converge in the rotational direction of the drum 16.The side walls 32,33 of the groove 21 and the side walls of the ring 17 run in parallel directions. The adapter 19 is provided with a bore 27 in which the cutting tool 18 is received.A pin 28 is attached to the casing 22. The pin 28 projects into an annular recess 29 on the cutting tool 18 so as to provide a locking means for preventing unintentional withdrawal of the cutting tool out of the bore 27 while permitting rotation of the cutting tool. The contact surface 24 is located at the one side of a radial centre plane 30 through the ring 17. Preferably, the centre plane 30 coincides with the centre plane through the casing 22 and the tool 18. An angle gbetween the radius R of the drum intersecting the tip of the tool 18, on the one hand, and the contact surface 25, on the other hand, is larger than an anglers be tween the radius R and the contact surface 24. The angle gins obtuse and the anglers is acute.The anglesandi2are located on a rear side of the radius R relative to the direction of drum retation, and are located on the radially inward sides of the surfaces 24,25. A pin 34 is attached to the casing 22 in the side wall 33 of the groove 21 and extends in the direction of the ring 17. The pin 34 forms z projection from t he side wall 33 and includes a contact surface 35 which forms therebeneath an undercut portion 36 of the groove 21. The undercut portion 36 extends generally in the direction of the ring 17. The pin 34 terminates short of the front end of the groove 21 i.e. the left end in Fig. 3, to define an enlarged opening,The casing 22 includes a contact surface 37 which extends at an angle relative to the contact surface 35. The enlarged opening at the front end of the pin 34 is sized to receive the extension 20 and the projection 23 such that upon movement of the adapter 19 toward the rear end of the groove 21 the projection 23 travels along the undercut portion 36.The projection 23 is defined by a lateral recess in the extension 20 which recess is shaped similar to the pin 34 to receive the latter when the adapter 19 is inserted into the groove 21. The contact surfaces 35,37 on the casing 22 or ring 17, then, are contacting the contact surfaces 24,25 on the adapter 19, thereby wedgingly securing the adapter 19 to the drum 16. The contact surfaces 35,37 converge in the rotational direction of the drum 16. Preferably, all contact surfaces 24,25, 35,37 are planar. sIh use, the cutting tool 18 will penetrate backwards into the adapter 19. Due to the fact that the adapter is wedgingly secured it can readily be replaced by a new one when damaged. In the embodiment according to Sig. 6 the cutting tool and the adapter are made as an integral unit 39. This means that the axial forces applied on the cutting insert 26 are taken up by the contact surface 37 on the casing 22. This increases the length of the replacement intervals. The embodiment shown iu Fig. 6 is particularly riesignea icr cutting asphalt.