# Timer especially for household appliances.

## Abstract
The timer is of the type, in which the start thereof is realized by means of the cut out of an interrupter control led by the axial displacement of driving shaft 10 . The said shaft shows a crown 28 to retain cams 42 and 44 of a different ray and which are influenced by spring ed means 38 . With the group of cams 42 44 co operate contacts 54 , the last mentioned whereof is as sociated with a nose 50 retained by an elastic blade 48 and co operating alternatively either with the one or with the other of the said cams, in order to effect in such a way the normal cycle or a complemental cycle or integratable with the cycle or the cycles of the time lagging devices.

## Claims
CIiAI S 1. Timer, especially conceived for application on household appliances, in which the shaft is movable axially to control the operations of its motor means, characterized in that it is provided with at least one auxiliary cam 44 46 secured to said control shaft 10 co operating with at least one electric switch 52 55 to control the complementary operating cycle which may be inte grated with the cycle or cycles proper of the timer. 2. Timer according to claim 1, characterized in that it is provided with a supporting flange 24 secured to control shaft 10 of the timer in turn provided with a perforated disc 40 secured to auxiliary cam 44 46 and urged by spring means 38 which engage said disc by means of the axial stops 26 in said control shaft 10 . 3. Timer according to claims 1 and 2,characteri zed in that perforated disc 40 is provided at its periphery with a set of at least two cams 42 44 in which at least part of the profils of the elementary cams in the set is arranged in sca lar order to form radial shoulders or ledges for fixed stopping means 50 which thus govern the axial shifting of said set of cams with respect to electric switch 52 55 . 4. Timer according to claims 1 thru 3 characteri zed by a suitable shaped prong 50 secured to a blade 48 which is flexible radially with respect to the set of cams and rigid axially with respect to same, whilst it is operatably secured with the movable portion 55 of switch 52,54 and which prong co operates with the profiles and shoulders of said cams to hold the set of cams 42,44 axially in opposition to the action exerted by spring means 38 . 5. Timer according to claims 1 thru 4, characteri zed by an axially movable hollow tube 22 torsio nally secured and co axial with timer control shaft 10 , while the spring means 38 for the auxiliary cam or cams 42,44 are interposed between the latter and said hollow tube, which is in turn secured axially to timer supporting structure K by means of axial anchorage means 30 secured to the hollow tube and torsionally bound to said control shaft. 6. Timer according to claims 1 thru 5 characteri zed in that at least one of the auxiliary cams 44 of the set of cams 42 44 is provided with at least one radial notch 46 to house prong 50 in turn secured to blade 48 which constitutes the movable contact 55 of the elctric switch when said set of cams is shifted axially. 7. Timer according to claim 6, characterized in that radial notch 46 in a part of auxiliary cams 44 is shaped in scalar manner to control the opening and closing of the electric switch or switches. 8. Timer according to claims 1 thru 7, characteri zed by the form of construction illustrated in the attached drawing and substantially as descri bed for the purposes specified.

## Description
Application for Patent under the Europen Patent ConventionTitle TIMER ESPECIALLY DESIGNED FOR APPLICAUION IN HOUSEHOLD APPLIANCES Description This invention relates to a timer apt to control the operating time of electric circuits in general, especially electric circuits for household appliances. With reference in particular to timers which control the operating cycles of domestic appliances such as washing machines,cooking appliances ect, the operating cycles need to be varied with reference to the successive technological operations actuated in each case. It ensues that the control of said operations performed by the user reqlares timers the structures and operation of which are rather complex especially if the capacities of the user are considered. A typical, but not exclusive case is the operating control of washing machines, in which the timer must control the operating time of circuits involving thermal sources, devices to vary the quality and or flow rate and or the circulating intensity of washing and treatment liquids, depending on the material involved in each case. The satisfactory and rational performance of such requirements renders the structure and operations of the timers even more complex, with consequent higher cost The purpose of this invention is to Qbviate the above limitations and at the same time make it possible to meet rationally and without difficulty all the requirements normally attainable by the complete utilization of the machine controlled by the timer. The timer according to this invention, the shaft of which is movable axially to control operation of its motor means, is characterized in that at least one auxiliary cam is secured to said shaft and co operates with at least one elctric switch to control a complemantary operating cycle which may be integrated to the operating cycle or cycles proper of the timer itself. Advantageously, a set of at least two cams is secured to the control shaft of the timer and is urged by the spring means which keep it engaged with axial stopping means in said shaft., while at least a part of the profile of the elementary cams of said set of auxiliary cams is arranged scalar wise so that the radial shoulder ledges form fixed stopping means to govern the axial movement of said set of cams with respect to the electric switch. The fixed stopping means which govern the axial movement of the set of auxiliary cams, in opposition to the action of the spring means, consist of a suitable shaped prong secured a blade which is radially flexible with respect to said set of auxiliary cams but axially rigid and operatably secured to the movable part of the switch, whilst the prong or tooth engages both the profiles and the shoulder of the set of cams. The invention will now be described in conjunction with the attached drawings illustrating one preferred form of embodiment of the timer, the camshaft of which is axially lovable to actuate the general switch in said timer. In the drawings Figure 1 is an axial section of the interior of the timer according to the invention Figure 2 is a section taken on lines Il Il of figure 1 Figure 3 to 6, similar to Figure 2 show the different positions of the timer in the various operating phases controlled by it. In the drawings equal parts are identified by equal reference symbols the timer illustrated is of the known type and its control shaft 10 is actuated, for example by a synchronous motor via a suitable clutch. One of the ends of control shaft 10 is provided with an actuating button not shown apt to impart to the shaft both an angular motion and an axial motion in the direction of arrow Itxit in Figure 1, so as to actuate the main switch of the timer in the usual known manner. For this purpose, shaft 10 is secured to a collar 12 provided with suitable shaped peripheral notches 14 and 16 in which alternatively engages an elastic segment 18, in turn axially held by a ledge 20 in a hollow tube 22, to position the shaft axially. A flange 24 secured to shaft 10 terminates with a crown 26 the ends of which are provided with apertures 28, through which pass the axual appendices 30 of tube 22 which engage permanently the fixed part E of the timer, for example, the cover of same. It ensues that hollow tube 22 is caused to rotate by shaft 10 whilst it remains axially fixed with respect to same. A collar 32 is secured to hollow tube 22. One of the ends of said collar terminates with a flange 34 to hold aniactuate a set of cams 36 which cooperate, in the required sequence, with switches not shom , to control tlble different electric circuits. A spring 38 is interposed between collar 32 we a perforated dsc 40 supported and elastically urged by spring 38 against crown 26 of flange 24 to form in this manner a drive and coupling means for said perforated disc 40. The periphery of perforated disc 40 is shaped with sets of radial profiles graded with respect to each other, to form shoulders between the groups of contiguos profiles which act as axial stops. In the case illustrated, the periperhy of perforated disc 40 has two radial profiles 42 and 44 of different radii the second profile 44 is provided with at least 1 graded notch 46 to form a cam. Notch or cam 46 is offset at an angle from starting point 0 of the timer, by an angle , as shown in drawings from 3 to 6. It is obvious that the radial contour 42 in disc 40 may be in the form of a cam, rather than circular, depending on specific service requirements to be met with by the timer. Radial profiles 42 44 of disc 40 actuate one or more electric switches in the case illustrated, the group actuates a selector switch the movable contact of which consists of a flexible blade 48 one of the ends of which is secured to the base structure K of the timer and which is provided with a prong 50 cooperating both with the shoulder formed by profiles 42 and 44 and with cam 44. The other end of the blade 48 is provided with a contact 55 which cooperates alternatively with fixed contacts 52 and 54 thus forming a selector switch.The performance of the timer results clearly from the foregoing description. Taking into account that, when the time lagging device is at a standstill, the main switch is open and the other parts of the timer concerned, are in the position shown in Figures 1 and 2, where the elastic segment 18 is in engagement with notch 16. The cutout of the main switch and hence the start of the timer is obtained by acting on shaft 10, to displace it axially in the direction of the arrow. Supposing that the timer, object of the description, is specifically and advantageously used in connection with a cloth wating machine for the household, in such a case the switch 52 54 55 controls two programs, the first whereof to wash the usual garments and the second to wash delicate garments during the last mentioned program the heating is performed at a reduced and controlled temperature, both of the water used for washing and the rinsing water. The realization of either one or the other of the two aforesaid cycles is carried out by acting upon shaft 10 of the time lagging device, in order to impart, to the radial profiles of the disc, i.e. to cams 42 44, the desired angular position and thereafter the said shaft is drawn in the direction shown by arrow X, to close the main switch. From this instant onward the timer is actuated by its own motor and by performing the usual cycle, since the device stops automatically, as soon as the cams 36 thereof have reached the desired angular position or the Stop of the program related to the first cycle. To realize the second cycle, the same procedure is followed however, in this case it is necessary to take the angular position into consideration i.e. the starting position , which is shown by or is imparted to cams 42 44. To be exact, in case that notch 46 of cam 44 is next to, or close to nose 50 that is in the position shown in Figure 4 , contact 52 will remain closed in relation to the bottom profile of the said notch 46, to ben then opened, while successively and in relation with the profile of notch 46, contact 54 Figure 5 , closes. On the other hand, if shaft 10 is displaced in axial direction see arrow X , when notch 46 is displaced in respect to nose 50 see Figure 3 , in such a case the said nose 50 of blade 48 follows the profile of cam 42, i.e. contact 52 remains closed, until cam 44 of disc 40 reaches, with the notch 46 thereof, nose 50 of blade 48. In this case, the action of spring 38 pushes disc 40, with cams 42 and 44, toward the arrow, so that nose 50 engages notch 46.From this instant onward, contact 55 effects the aforesaid cycle, determined by the profile of notch 46. Figures from 3 through 5 show that, when a pre determined program is selected, which starts prior to the be ginning of angle scand between, and ,the contact which re mains closed is contact 54.0S the other hand, when a program is selected, which is comprised between the angular width of 06 , contact 52 is remaining closed. What stated above confirms that the scope of the invention is fully achieved, in simple, rational and economic manner. Moreover, the invention affords further advantages, in particular, the possibility to do away with the use of a pushbutton type switch on the device washing machine or similar machine , whilst programming of the timer is performed in such a way that each program is operated in the best way. Actually, each program is a compromise, due to the programs which precede or follow the program considered. On the contrary, with the timer according to this invention, it is possible to co ordinate the operating cycles of the user, with proper criteria. For example, in the case of a washing machine, it is possible to perform washing programs for woollen clothes which contemplate static heating of the water and pumping of the water with limited movement , pre washing for all programs, possibility to modify the water levels during a cycle, possibility to effect drying by cooling and or drying and, finally, the possibility to select the final phase if washing of del icate clothing is performed. It is obvious that in addition to the modifications on the timer already considered according to the invention, further modifications and changes may be introduced to meet the desired conditions, without departing from the scope of the invention.