# An optical coupling device.

## Abstract
A photothyristor 1 with a photodetector 2 is connect ed in parallel between gate G and cathode K of the photo thyristor 1 . The photodetector 2 is such that its impedance is decreased when it is struck by incident light. The photothyr istor 1 is turned OFF when the impedance of the photodetec tor 2 decreases. The photodetector 2 can be a bipolar pho totransistor 5 or an enhancement type photo field effect tran sistor 6 . A light emitting diode LED₂ is arranged opposite to the photodetector 2 in the optical coupling device. When light from light emitting diode LED₂ is incident on photodetector 2 the photothyristor is turned OFF.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. An optical coupling device comprising a photothyristor,characterised in that a photodetector . . of which element, tne 1mpeuance ls decreased when light is incident thereupon, is connected in parallel between or an anode a gate and a cathode of the photothyristor. 2. An optical coupling device as claimed in claim 1, wherein the photodetector element is a bipolar phototransistor, and wherein an element operable to emit light when a signal for turning OFF the photothyristor is applied thereto is arranged opposite to the phototransistor. 3. An optical coupling device as claimed in claim 1 wherein the photodetector element is an enhancement type photo field effect transistor, and wherein an element operable to emit light when a signal for turning OFF the photothyristor is applied thereto is arranged opposite to the field effect transistor. 4. An optical coupling device as claimed in claim 1, wherein the p ho tothyristor is a photo triac. 5. An optical coupling device comprising photosensitive means having first and second main terminals, which means are placed in a first state to pass or block current flowing between the first and second main terminals when light is incident thereupon, the photo sensitive means also having a control terminal, with a photodetector element connected in parallel between the control terminal and one of the first and second main terminals such that when light is incident upon the photodetector element the resulting change in impedance thereof causes the photosensitive means to change from the first state to a second state i.e. to block or to pass current flowing between first and second main terminals .

## Description
AN OPTICAL COUPLING DEVICE. The present invention relates to an optical device, e,g. a photocoupler or a photoisolator, utilising a thyristor. As is generally known in the art to which this invention pertains, an optical coupling device, e.g a photocoupler, utilizing a photothyristor has been widely used as a switching device or as an isolator.In an optical coupling device of this kind, a photodetector element constituted by a photothyristor, which can be turned ON by incident light, has been employed. However, to turn OFF such an optical coupling device a commutator circuit has had to be provided to turn OFF the anode current for example of the photothyristor. In other words, it has been necessary to decrease the anode current to below a minimum holding current, or to reverse bias the connection between the anode and cathode, in order to turn OFF the optical coupling device which has been turned ON by incident light.Such a commutator circuit has been complex and has occupied a substantial amount of space, and this fact has thwarted attempts to replace electromechanical relays in crossbar switches by optical coupling devices According to the present invention, there is provided an optical coupling device comprising a photothyristor, characterised in that a photodetector element, the of which impedance is decreased when light is incident thereupon or an anode is connected in parallel between a gate and a cathode of the photothyristor. According to the present invention there. is provided an optical coupling device comprising photosensitive means having first and second mainterminals,which means are placed in a first state to pass or to block current flowing between the first and second main terminals when light is incident thereupon, the photosensitive means also having a control terminal, with a photodetector element connected in parallel between the control terminal and one of the first and second main terminals such that when light is incident upon the photodetector element the resulting change in impedance thereof causes the photosensitive means to change from the first state to a second state i.e.to block or to pass current flowing between first and second main terminals . An embodiment of the present invention can provide a switch that may be operated by incident light which can, for example, replace electromechanical relays used in crossbar switches. More particularly, an embodiment of the present invention can provide an optical coupling device which can be turned ON and OFF by incident light without the need for a commutator for turning OFF anode current of a photothyristor of the device. This is conceived by diverting the fundamentals of the gate turn off GTO thyristor. In an optical coupling device, e ,g. a photocouplerJ embodying this invention a photodetector element is connected in parallel between gate and cathode of a photothyristor. In one embodiment of the invention, the photodetector element is a bipolar phototransistor, and there is provided opposite to the transistor an element which emits light when a signal to turn the photothyristorOFF is applied thereto. In another embodiment of the invention, the photodetector element is an enhancement type photo field effect transistor FET , and an element that emits light when a signal to turn the photothyristor OFF is applied to it is arranged opposite to the transistor. Reference will be made, by way of example, to the accompanying drawings in which Fig. 1 is a schematic illustration of the circuit illustrating fundamental features of an optical coupling device according to the present invention Fig. 2 is a schematic illustration of an equivalent circuit of a first embodiment of the present invention Fig. 3 is a schematic illustration of an equivalent circuit of a second embodiment of the invention Figs. 4 and 5 are schematic waveform diagrams illustrating the modes of operation of the first and second embodiments Fig. 6 is a schematic illustration of a circuit used in connection with experiments concerning the present invention Fig. 7 is a schematic waveform diagram illustratingON and OFF states of a thyristor current in connection with the circuit of Fig. 6 Figs. 8 and 9 are respective graphical illustrations of measured maximum thyristor currents which could be turned OFF in experimental circuits and Fig. 10 is a graphical illustration of the relationship between the current driving the photodetector element and the maximum thyristor current which could be turned OFF in experimental circuits relating to the present invention. Fig. 1 illustrates the principle of an optical coupling device embodying the present invention. InFig. 1 there is shown a known photothyristor 1 with an anode A and a cathode K to be connected in a conventional power source circuit, and a gate G for control signal input. In Fig. 1, a load L is connected between anodeA of the photothyristor and a power source E, and cathode K of the photothyristor is connected to earth level. A photodetector element 2 is connected in parallel between gate G and cathode K of the photothyristor.In the circuit shown in Fig. 1, when light irradiates the photothyristor 1, the photothyristor 1 is turned ON and a current flows from anode A to cathode K to drive load L. In this state, when light strikes or irradiates the photodetector element 2, the impedance of the element 2 is decreased to plaee the photothyristor 1 in anOFF state by effectively drawing electric charge in the base or gate of a transistor used as the photodetector element e.g. a N P N transistor . There is shown in Fig. 2 a first embodiment of the present inventionbased on the principle illustrated in Fig. 1 In Fig. 2, an optical coupling device 3 comprises a photothyristor 1 and a photodetector element 2 and light emitting diodes LED1 and LED2. The photothyristor 1 is represented in Fig. 2 by an equivalent circuit comprising a P N P type transistor TR1, a photodiode 4 and a N P N type transistorTR2. Transistors TR1 and TR2 are arranged in such a manner that the base of the transistor TR1 is connected in series to the collector of transistorTR2, and the collector of transistor TR1 is connected to the base of transistor TR2, with photodiode 4 connected between the bases of two transistors. Thus, the emitter of transistor TR1 corresponds to anode A see Fig. 1 and the emitter of transistorTR2 corresponds to cathode K see Fig. 1 of the photothyristor 1 of Fig. 1. Further, the collector of transistor TR1 and the base of transistor TR2 which are connectedfflcorrespond to the gate G of Fig. 1 Phototransistor 5 is used as the photodetector element 2 and is connected between gate G and cathode K. The optical coupling device 3 of Fig. 2 is constructed as a photocoupler, and a light emitting diode LED1, having anode A1 and cathode K1, is arranged opposite the photodiode 4, with a light emitting diode LED2, having anode A2 and cathode K2, arranged opposite the phototransistor 5. In this first embodiment, the photodetector element 5 is placed parallel between a P type gate G and a N type cathode K of a four layer PNPN structure photothyristor 1 represented in Fig. 2, by the two transistors TR1, TR2 and photodiode 4 , but the invention is not limited to such an arrangement for example a photodetector element may be connected in parallel, for example,between a N type gate and aP type anode. Next, details of the operation of the optical coupling device embodying the invention will be explained, reference being made to the waveforms illustrated inFig. 4 and Fig. 5 for this purpose. In order to bring about an ON state, current is caused to flow between anode A1 and cathode K1 of light emitting diode LED1 of Fig. 2, as illustrated inFig. 4 for example, making LED1 emit light. In terms of the equivalent circuit, photodiode 4 of the photothyristor, which is optically coupled to this light emitting diode LED1, causes photocurrent to flow to the base of transistor TR2 when the photodiode is struck by light from LED1. Because of this, transistor TR2 is turned ON and base current flows from transistor TR1.When such current is produced, transistors TR1 and TR2 are turned ON, and because of this the base current of transistor TR2 is supplied through the emitter and collector of transistor TR1, and the base current of transistor TR1 can flow through the collector and emitter of transistor TR2. As a result, the entire circuit is latched and a current flows between anode A and cathodeK independently of irradiation and non irradiation of light emitting diode LED1. Thus, the photothyristor 1 of Fig. 1 is turned ON. Next, in order to bring about an OFF state of photothyristor 1, a current is caused to flow between anode A2 and cathode K2 of light emitting diode LED2 corresponding to the photodetector element 5. The photodetector element 5, when struck by light from light emitting diode LED2, is turned ON, and bypasses shunts base current of transistor TR2 to turn that transistor OFF. Consequently, transistor TR1 is turnedOFF with its base current cut off, and thus photothyristor 1 is turned OFF. This turn OFF of photothyristor 1 is realized even if incident light from light emitting diode LED1 is continuously present.Thus, if, as illustrated in Fig. 5, light emitting diode LED emits light continuously from time T1 to time T2, during which light emitting diode LED2 is turned ON and OFF as shown, photothyristor 1 is turned OFF and ON in accordance with operation of LED2. Fig. 3 shows a second embodiment of the present invention. In Fig. 3 parts corresponding to those ofFig. 2 are given the same reference numerals. As will be apparent from a comparison of the embodiments ofFig. 2 and Fig. 3, the second embodiment is different from the first embodiment in that a N channel, enhancement type photo field effect transistor FET 6, the charact eristic impedance of which is decreased by incident light, is used as photodetector element 2. This photodetector element 6 is connected in parallel between gate G and cathode K of the photothyristor 1 in a manner similar to the connection of transistor 5 in the first embodiment. Again in Fig. 3 the photothyristor 1 is represented by an equivalent circuit . When the photodetector element 6 is struHkby light from light emitting diode LED2 for a predetermined length of time, the element 6 maintains low impedance and causes the photothyristor i.e. transistors TR1, TR2 and photodiode 4 to be turned from an ON state to an OFF state, by bypassing shunting plasma like electric charge in a base region of the photothyristor. It may be pointed out here that, although photodetector element 2 is either a phototransistor or an Nchannel, enhancement type photo field effect transistor in the first and second embodiments of the present invention illustrated above, other types of element may be selected as desired so long as the element has a characteristic such that its impedance is decreased by incident light. Further, the equivalent circuit of the abovedescribed embodiments was taken to relate to a photothyristor but such a limitation is not necessary, and the equivalent circuit may be taken to relate to any photo element or arrangement if that element may be turned OFF by decreasing the impedance between gate and cathode, as is the case with a photo triac, for example. Results of experiments conducted in connection with the present invention will now be described with reference to Fig. 6. In the circuit of Fig. 6 LED1, which is coupled with photothyristor 1, is fed with current through a resistor R1. LED2, which is coupled with photodetector element 6 in this case a phototransistor ,is fed with current through a resistorR2. The photothyristor 1 is arranged to switch a current from source Vc carried through a resistor RL There are schmatically indicated in Figure 6 means for sensing thyristor anode current IA and thyristor gate current IG IF1 IF2 are the driving currents of light emitting diodes LED1 and LED2. A photothyristor 1 used in the experiments was a product of Tokyo Shibaura Electric Co., Ltd. ofTokyo, Japan, known by the brand name TLP510G and havingVDRM of 400 V and IT RMS of 150mA, and as a photodetector element 5, a product of Fujitsu Co., Ltd. of Tokyo, Japan, known by the brand name of PF212M was selected. With IF1 lOmA, IF2 100mA and IA 34mA the thyristor 1 could be turned ON and OFF reliably, to switch the current 1A ON and OFF. By way of explanation, it should be pointed out that Fig 7 is a representation of photographs recorded by an.oscillograph. It will be seen from Fig 7 that whenLED1 was supplied with driving current IF1 10mA the thyristor 1 was turned ON i.e. IA goes to 34mA .When LED2 was subsequently supplied with driving current IF2 100mA the thyristor 1 was turned OFF i,e. IA cut off . The turn ON time ton was approximately and Xs, and turn OFF time toff approximately 40 ss. There is an upper limit to the value of thyristor current IA which can be turned OFF by the method used in the experiments, and results of measurements are shown in Figures 8 and 9 which shows ranges tested for turn OFF s. Fig. 8 concerns the abovedescribed photothyristor TLP510G, and Fig. 9 conerns 2SF350, a thyristor made by Fujitsu Co., Ltd. When the driving current IF2 of light emitting diodeLED2 is decreased, maximum value of current IA that can be turned OFF decreases. This is illustrated in Fig. 10 in which the points indicated by circles coneern thyristor 2SF350 and the points indicated by dots concern photothyristor TLP510G. The X marks show the conditions when gate and cathode are short cIrcuited. In order to turn OFF the photothyristor 1, it is necessary to bring the transistors having NPN and PNP structures into non saturated regions by extracting excess carriers in the transistor base, but it takes a determinate length of time designated by tstg to realize this. That is, taking the photothyristor 1 to be a four layer PNPN structure device, it may be useful to consider it to be equivalent to a PNP transistor seeTR1 in Fig. 1 and an NPN transistor see TR2 in Fig. 2 , together with a photodiode. The two middle layersNB,PB of the four layer structure might then be said to correspond to the bases of the two transistors and the PB NB junction might be taken to correspond to the photodiode see 4 in Fig.1 .Excess carriers in the base in plasma state pass through the base layer and are extracted from near, from the region of, the gate electrode of the thyristor and are concentrated toward the central part of the cathode electrode of the thyristor, and the period of time taken until plasma in the base is concentrated to within the effective diffusion length L n of the minority carriers in the base layer represents a first stage, with a substantial part of tstg taken up by thisfirst stage. The second stage is that period of time during which minority carriers are decreased until PBNB junction is no longer forward biased, and the duration of the second stage is normally small. The turn OFF gain ss of the photothyristor 1 is expressed by the following equation ss IA IG ............ 1 It is of course desirable for the value of ss to be large. max in relation to the abovedescribed t in the first stage is expressed by equation 2 below, and ss max in the second stage is expressed by equation 3 below ssmax 1 4Lnê Wpê........ 2 ssmax alpha npn alpha npn alpha pnp 1 ... 3 where Wp represents width of the p base below nE region e.g. the N type region corresponding to the emitter of TR2 ,Ctnpn and o pnp represent respectively Oc s of npn and pnp parts of the thyristor. ss max in relation to a GTO gate turn OFF element takes the smaller value of max and ssmax .It is necessary to increase ffi in order to increase the thyristor current which can be turned OFF and for that purpose, a design based on equation 3 to obtain a high value ct ppn and low value c pnp will suffice. In order to facilitate extraction of excess carriers in the base, a comb teeth type electrode pattern as practiced in GTO gate turn OFF thyristor is desirable, but it is to be noted that an appropriate hole must be provided to allow incident light to strike PB NB junction. As has been explained above, in an optical coupling device of the present invention, a photothyristor may readily be switched from ON state to OFF state by means of gate control as is the case with a gate turn OFF GTO thyristor by placing in parallel to the photothyristor, between gate and cathode thereof, a photodetector element the impedance of which is decreased by incident light. It will be understood that a reference to a photothyristor includes a reference to a phototriac. With the photodetector element of the invention, turn OFF may be relatively difficult as explained above if the thyristor current is too large, but experimentally it has been confirmed that.turn OFF is possible with 60mA thyristor current,.. The value of thyristor current which can be turned OFF depends on the structure of the device, so that further increase of this value can be expected. Moreover, by using light emitting diodes LED1 and LED2 in the present invention to control turn ON and turn OFF, a load circuit and a control circuit are completely isolated electrically to offer superior insulation characteristics.