# Benzo c pyran derivatives, process for their preparation and their use in perfumery.

## Abstract
Compounds having the formula They possess unique floral odours and are useful as ingredients of compounded perfumery compositions. Especially valuable are thos compounds wherein X is hydrogen and n and m have a value of one.

## Claims
WHAT WE CLAIM IS 1. A compound having the forEMI10.1 wherein X represents a hydrogen atom or an alkyl group having from 1 to 4 carbon atoms, m has a value of O or l, n has a value of 1 or 2, n m 2 and the dashed line indicates alternative positions for a unit of unsaturation. 2. A compound according to Claim 1 wherein X represents a methyl group. 3. A compound according to Claim 1 wherein X represents a hydrogen atom. 4. A compound according to any of the preceding Claims wherein n and m each have a value of 1. 5. A compounded perfumery composition which comprises a plurality of odiferous ingredient characterised in that it further comprises at least one compound having the formulaEMI10.2 wherein X represents a hydrogen atom or an alkyl group having from 1 to 4 carbon atoms, m has a value of O or 1, n has a value of 1 or 2, n m 2 and the dashed line indicates alternative positions for a unit of unsaturation. 6. A composition according to Claim 5 characteirised in that X represents a hydrogen atom. 7. A composition according to either of Claims 5 or 5 characterised in that n and m each have a value of 1. 8. A composition according to any of Claims 5, 6 and 7 characterised in that the composition further comprises one or more odoriferous chemicals selected from the group comprising linalol, linalylacetate, bergamot oil, grapefruit oil, lemon oil, orange oil, petit grain oil, hexylcinnamic aldehyde, benzylsalicylate, methyl ionones, 2 alkoxy 2, 6 dimethyl octan 7 ols, methylanthranilate, geraniol and nerol and esters thereof, neroli oil, farnesol. nerolidol, eugenol, isoeugenol, patchouli oil, vetiveryl acetate, cedryl acetate, p tertiary butyl cyclohexyl acetate and terpineol. 9. A composition according to Claim 8 characterised in that the compounds of formula I comprise from 2 to 15 parts by weight thereof. 10. A composition according to Claim 9 characterised in that the compounds of formula 1 comprise from 3 to 7 parts by weight thereof. 11. A process for the preparation of a compound having the formulaEMI11.1 whereir.X represents a hydrogen atom or an alkyl group having from 7 to w carbon atoms, R has 3 value of O or l, n has a value of 1 or 2, n m 2 and the dashed line indicates alternative positions for a unit of unsaturate characterised in that en alcohol having the formulaEMI11.2 yclised by heating in the presence of an acid. process according to Claim 11 characterised in that the acid is osphoric acid. . process according to Claim 12 characterised in that an acid solution comprising 15 to 35 by weight of acid is employed in a volume at least equal to trat of the organic phase. 44. A process according to Claim 11 characterised in that the acid is rres nt in the form of a solution of a sulphonic acid in an organic solvent, r, A process according to Claim 14 wherein the acid is para toluene sulphonic acid. 16. A process according to Claim II substantially as hereinbefore described with reference to the foregoing examples. 17. A compounded perfumery composition according to Claim 5 substantially as r reinbefore described with reference to the foregoing examples.

## Description
This invention is concerned with certain novel organic compounds and with perfumery compositions containing the compounds. It h,s been discover ed that these compounds exhibit unique, attractive odours which render then useful in ingredients of parfumery compositions which compositions find in a wide variety of applications. From our aspect our invention provides compounds of the formula EMI1.1 wherein X represents a hydrogen atom or an alkyl group having from 1 to 4 carbon atoms and m has a value 0 or 1, n has a value 1 or 2 and n 2 the dashed lines indicating alternative positions for a unit of un tur tion. Such compounds may be individual stereoisomers or mixtures of the possible stereoisomers of compounds having the above formula. These compounds have been discovered to have a fresh Flora1 type pe ot odour, with a blend of prominent neroili, bitter orange notes Further more, the odours of these compounds blend harmoniously with those o other known odiferous chemicals to produce useful compounded perfumery composi tions. The novel compounds of this invention are derivatives of 3, 3, 7, 8 tetramethyl 2 oxabicyclo 4,4,0 decane which will hereinafter be referred to for convenience as bigarade oxides. They may be employed as a major ingredient of these compositions depending upon the desired overall odour required. In general the bigarade oxides wi l constitue from 2 to 15, preferably 3 to 7 parts by weight of the composition. The parfumery compositions of this invention may find use as such or after dilution, but more usually they are added in small proportions to other materials such as space sprays or to soap cosmetic or deodorant compositions or to substrates such as fibre fabric or paper products in order to provide them with agreeable olfactory properties.Such compositions are products of commerce and they may comprise a simple or complex mixture of individual perfumery compounds. Thus, from a second aspect our invention provides a compounded perfumery composition comprising a plurality of odiferous chemicals together with at least one compound having the formula EMI2.1 wherein X and m and n are as hereinbefore defined. The unique fruity floral odours of the novel bigarade oxides of our invention find special use in compositions designed for use in various perfumed bath preparations such as bath salts etc. These novel perfumery compositions may be compounded according to recognised techniques of the perfumery arts employing known odoriferous perfumery ingredients such as those described in the standard textbooks of the art, e.g. Soap, Perfumery and Cosmetics by W.A. Poucher, 8thEdition, published by Chapman and Hall London 1974 Perfume and FlavourChemicals by S. Arctander published by the author Montclair 1969 Perfume and Flavour Materials of Natural Origin also by S. Arctander self published Elizabeth New Jersey 1960 and Perfume Technology byM. Billot and F.V. Wells published by Ellis Horwood Ltd. 1975. The relevant disclosures of these aforesaid textbooks are hereby incorporated by reference herein.Specific odoriferous ingredients which may be blended with the bigarade oxides in a compounded perfumery composition are the derivatives of 2, 6 dimethyl 2 alkoxy octan 7 ol as claimed in our DutchPatent Application No. 72. 15238 , vetivert oil, vetiverol, vetiveryl acetate guaic wood oil, esters of anthranilic acid such as the methyl, N methyl methyl, ethyl, phenyl ethyl, cinnamyl, linalyl, methyl and geranyl esters, benzyl acetate, lemon oil, dimethyl benzyl carbinol, dimethyl benzyl carbinyl acetate, rose absolute, jasmin absolute, ionones, iso nonyl acetate, methyl phenyl acetate, styrallyl acetate, B. phenyl ethanol, citronellol, citronellal, hydroxy citronnelal,geranium oil, geraniol, linalol, nerol, lavandin oil, linalyl acetate, patchouli oil, petitgrain oil, bergamot oil, heliotropin, ethylene brassylate, undecyl aldehyde, cinnamaldehyde, benzyl salicylate, cinnamyl alcohol, clove bud oil, bay oil, nutmeg oil, pimento berry oil, terpineol, ylang oil, benzyl benzoate, sandal wood oil, clary sage oil, amyl salicylate, labdanum resin, methyl ionones, dihydro myrcenol, orange oil, vanillin, ethylvanillin, olibanum resin, musk ambrette, rhodinol, mandarin oil, methylnonyl acetaldehyde, neroli oil, cedrol, oakmoss, isovalanone, eugenol, iso eugenol, cedarwood oil, p tert butyl cyclohexyl acetate. Typically the novel bigarde oxides are blended with at least two, usually at least five and preferably at least ten of the foregoing ingredients. Preferred compounds for present use are those wherein X represents a methyl group or a hydrogen atom. Most preferably the isomers wherein n and m have a value of 1 are used. Particularly preferred odoriferous ingredients for blending with the bigarade oxides are linalol, linalylacetate, bergamot oil, grapefruit ol lemon oil, orange oil, petitgrain oil, hexycinnamic aldehyde, benzylsalicy late, methyl ionnes, 2 alkoxy 2, 6 dimethyl octan 7 ols, methylanthran geraniol and nero and esters thereof, neroli oil, farnesol, nerolidol. eugeno I isoeugenol, atonoul i oil, vets very acetate, ceoryl acetate tiary butyl cyclohexy acetate and terpineol. The revel digrade oxides may conveniently be made by a multi spor thesis which uses the iene known as allo ocimene as its starting hatAllo acimene is readily available as a produkt of the thermal isomerisis of ocimen, a triene round as a oonstituent of several essential oils more usually from the thermal Isomerisationof a pinene. As a frst step in this synthesis allo ocimene is reacted with an urated dienophile having the formula CH2 CXY the reaction being the Diels Aldor addition. The reaction proceeds according to the follow quation EMI4.1 The desired intermediate for the production of the novel compound. of the invention is the compound of formula EMI4.2 t r be produced directly by using an unsaturated alcohol as the diene p n the above reaction, e.g. where X represents a hydrogen atom allyl a i can be used.Other dienophiles whcih yield adducts which can be c d to an alcohol having the above formula may also be employed and t t re of the substituent Y will vary acccrdingly. Thus acrolein, acry 1 d, acrylate esters and acrylic acid chloride can be employed. Fre r, in dly an unsaturated aldehyde is employed as the dienophile because cF s properties as a dienophile and the ease with which the adduct aldehyde c be converted to the desired alcohol intermediate. Thus in this caD of t rreferred compounds where X represents a hydrogen atom acrolein is adde f de none. The diels Alder addition can be carried out at elevared temperatures and pressures e.g. 120 to 180 C and 30 to 150 psi or at ambien temperatures n in the presence of a suitable electrophilic catalyst such a . The Diels Alder addition acrolein and allyl aldone i been reporte the Chemical Soceity of pages 106 sure describes the addition to a mixture of trans trans and trans cis allo ocimene. When using a mixture of these two stereoisomers we prefer to carry out the reaction under elevated temperatures and pressures. When the low temperature catalysed reaction is employed the trans cis isomer reacts extremely slowly.The Diels Alder addition is probably stereospecific and the product which is preferably separated by fractional distillation comprises a mixture of the four stereoisomeric adducts having the above formula. These adducts are then converted to the corresponding alcohols. In the preferred case the aldehydes are reduced using the conventional technique of synthetic organic chemistry. Where other dienophiles are employed in the addition step such as an unsaturated carboxylic acid, carboxylic acid ester and carboxylic acid chloride the adducts are likewise converted to the corresponding alcohols using conventional techniques. The conversion of the aldehyde to the corresponding alcohol may conveniently be achieved using catalytic hydrogenation i.e. heating the aldehyde adduct s at an elevated temperature of from 1500C to 1700C under superatmospheric pressure say 180 to 200 psi in an atmosphere of hydrogen gas and in the presence of a suitable catalyst. Preferably the catalyst employed is copper chromite but other conventional catalysts such as nickel, copper and palladium may be employed. Alternatively the reduction can be achieved using chemical methods in particular reduction with metal hydrides such as lithium aluminium hydride or sodium borohydride which regnts are normally added to the aldehyde as a solution in ether or water respectively, the reaction proceeding smoothly at ambient temperature.In conducting this reduction care should be taken to ensure that the ethylenic units of unsaturation present in the molecule are not attacked. The alcohols may be separated from the mixture of products formed using conventional technique e.g. fractional distillation or used directly in the next stage in the synthesis. The alcohol thus obtained may be cycles to the bigrade oxide by heating preferably under reflux in the presence of a protonic acid cataConveniently an aqueous so uQ 0 of a mineral acid or phosp.noric acid or organic solution of a sulphonic acid. The reaction will usually go to pletion under reflux within a period of a few nours e.g. 6 to 20 hours.Preferably an aqueous acid solution is employed as the catalyst, In order to seed te reaction a relatively concentrated solution e.g. a to 35 Ly weight is pret¹rab ly employed in such a quantity that the valure of the aqueous chase is at least r and preferably at least twice the volume of the organic phase. of more concentrated acid solutions gives a desirably high yield relatively short time e.g. 6 to 10 hours. The oil layer may be separathe from the aqueous layer and fractionated to give the desired bigarade f roduct. the use of organic solutions of sulphonic acids e.g. para toluene sulphonic acids in benzene or in an alkyl benzene speeds the reaction and favours the production of these novel compounds wherein n and m have a value of .. The organic layer is preferably washed with a dilute aqueous solution of i caustic alkali and the bigarade oxides are then separated by fractional JllaTh on. The product normally comprises a fixture of the various stereoisomers of compounds having the appropriate molecular formula as defined above. It wire normally comprise a mixture of the compounds wherein n has a value of 1 .h those wherein n has a value of 2. This mixture can be fractionated tc eparate those compounds having the above formula wherein n 1 from the where n 2. In the former the novel odoriferous character is more preneunced. However, the presence of the latter complements this odour ir Desirable mannor and preferably this separation step is omitted.Formathe of the compounds wherein n has a value of 2 is favoured by the treatmo of the alcohol with acid for a longer period or by using a stronger a The invention is illustrated by the following examples F 1. Preparation of 1, 6 dimethyl 3 isobutenyl 4 formyl cyclohexene 554g of allo ocimene 85 4E, 6Z 15 4E, 6E and 224 g of acroleinV placed in a stainless steel vessel which is equipped to withstand a b internal pressure at elevated temperatures. 1 gm of embanox, a polyr ration inhibitor, was added. The air in the vessel was displaced with and the vessel was closed. The temperature was raised to 165 170 C maintained in the range for 6 hours. The maximum pressure recorded was .T ss reaction mixture was then distilled and a mixture of four . s collected which represented a 70 yield of the desire entages of a termined by GLC to be as followas. EMI7.1 EXAMPLE 2 Preparation of 1, 6 dimethyl 3 isobutenyl 4 formy 408 g of allo ocimene 85 48 6Z, 15 4E 6E and 202 g of acrolein were placed in a stainless steel vessel which is equipped to withstand d internal pressure at elevated temperatures. 1 gm of hydroquinone, merisation inhibitor, was added. The air in the vessel t s displaced ith nitrogen and the vessel closed. The temperature was raised to and maintained in the range for 7.5 hours. The maximum pressure rece nd was 105 psi. The reaction mixture was then distilled and a mixture an Tour aldehydes collected which representend a 66 yield of the desired product.The percentages of adducts were A 4 , B 11 , C 74 and D 11 where eB, by C, D represent the isomers denoted as such in ExampleEXAMPLE 3 Preparation of 1,6 dimethyl 3 idobutenylen isoxy cyclonen 400 gm of the mixed aldehyde product obtained from above w in 200 mls of methanol and 8 gms of cooper chromite and shaken an of hydrogen at a temperature of 180 and a pressure of .9 J period of six hours. The product was filtered and distilled is of four isomeric alcohols in 85 yield. EXAMPLE 4 Preparation of 1,6 dimethyl 3 idobutenylen isoxy merryl 443 g of the mixed aldenyde product obtained from 2 obtes was 5g copper chromite and shaken in an atmosphere of hydrogen e 150 C and a pressure of 130 150 psi for 14 hours. The and distilled to give a mixture of four isomeric alcohols is 85. EXAMPLE of 3, 3, 7, 8 tetramethyl 2 oxabicyclo 4,4,0 dec 6 en. 1500 mls of a 10 aqueous solution of phosphoric acid were added to 500 gm of the alcohol mixture obtained in 3 above and the solution refluxed gently with stirring for a period of 8 hours. The oil layer was separated and washed with dilute aqueous caustic alkali, dried over magnesium sulphate and distilled to yield the desired product. EXAMPLE 6 Preparation of 3, 3, 7, 8 tetramethyl 2 oxabicyclo 4,4,0 dec 6 enes and 3,3,7, 8 tetramethyl 2 oxabicyclo 4,4,09 dec 7 enes. 3000 mls of a 30 S aqueous solution of phosphoric acid were added to 1160 g of the alcohol mixture obtained in 3 above. and the solution refluxed gently with stirring for a period of 12 hours. The oil layer was separated and washed with dilute aqueous caustic alkali and then water. The crude product was distilled to give a 74 yield of the six possible oxide isomers. EXAMPLE 7 Preparation of 3,3,7, 8 tetramethyl 2 oxabicyclo 4,4,0 dec 6 enes and 3,3,7, 8 tetramethyl 2 oxabicyclo 4, ,01 dec 7 enes. 20g of para toluene sulphonic acid in 3849 of ethylbenzene were added to 3849 of the alcohol mixture obtained in 3 above and the solution was stirred at 70 800C for 7.5 h. The reaction mixture was washed with dilute aqueous caustic alkali and ten water. The crude product was distilled to give a 77 yield of the six possible oxide isomers.EXAMPLE 8 A compounded perfumery composition was made up as follow all parts by weight Bergamot oil rinene Dimonene 120 frans ocimene 20 finalol 220 finalylacetate 30 Petitgrain oilTerpineolGeraniol 30Nerol 10 Neryl acetate 20Geranyl acetate Nerolidol 50Farnesol 20Indole 10 solution 25 in linalol Bigarade oxide Product of 80 Example 3 1000