# Projector for projecting electromagnetic control signals.

## Abstract
Remote control apparatus comprises a beam projector 10 which is controlled to alternately transmit rectangular cross sectional beams y, p of electromagnetic radiation substantially parallel to a projection axis. The beams y, p are respectively pulse modulated over a correspondingly distinct pulse rate frequency range to supply yaw and pitch information and are respectively scanned in a direction correspondingly orthogonal to its cross sectional length. The size format of the beam cross sections and the angle of the scan are controlled according to a predetermined time variable function. In a first time period, the largest cross sectional beams are alternately transmitted and the scan angle is decreased as a function of time, so that a fixed area of detectable information is available for detection with respect to an imaginary orthogonal reference plane moving along the projection axis at a rate corresponding to the predetermined time variable function. In subsequent time periods proportionately smaller cross sectional beams are transmitted and the scan angle is continually controlled. A first embodiment uses a single set of proportionately different size formatted cross sectional laser devices as a source of radiation 2 , a scanning mechanism 6, 7 and a fixed focus optical system including a beam chopper 12 , mirrors 16, 20 and lenses 18, 22 to effect alternately transmitted beams orthogonally oriented and scanned with respect to each other. The cross section of the beams can be altered by selectively energising one or other of the laser devices. A second embodiment employs two corresponding sets of proportionately different size formatted cross sectional laser sources a, b, c and a , b , c , a scanning mechanism 106, 107 and a non chopping fixed focus optical system including mirrors 116, 120 and lenses 118, 122 to effect alternately transmitted beams of selectable cross section, orthogonally oriented and scanned with respect to each other.