# Data communication method.

## Abstract
This invention concerns a data communication method and network, and in particular establishing communication security for data transmissions between a remote terminal and a host system. An embodiment of the invention includes a plurality of remote terminals 8, 9 and 10 and a host system each including respective data security devices 11, X capable of performing a variety of cryptographic operations. At initialization time, a host master key is written into the host data security device 11 and the host system generates a series of terminal master keys for the remote terminals. Protection is provided at the host for the terminal master keys by enciphering them under a variant of the host master key. The terminal master keys are then written into the data security devices X of the respective remote terminals to permit cryptographic operations to be performed. When a communication session is to be established between a designated remote terminal and the host system, a random number is generated and defined as a operational key enciphered under the host master key which permits the operational key to be used at the host system for enciphering or deciphering data operations. The host data security device 11, using the enciphered master key of the designated remote terminal X, transforms the enciphered operational key under control of the host master key into a form in which the operational key is enciphered under the terminal master key of the designated remote terminal. The operational key enciphered under the terminal master key of the designated remote terminal is transmitted to the remote terminal to permit the enciphered operational key to be used at the remote terminal for enciphering or deciphering data operations.