# Anti caking agent, a process for its preparation and its use.

## Abstract
Solid anti caking agent, based on inorganic powder material and hydrophobic organic compounds and a pro cess for its preparation. The agent contains inorganic powder, cationic amines, wax and alkoxylated alcohols or alkylphenols. The agent is in the form or prills, granules or the like, and is used for treatment of products, having a tendency to caking, especially for treatment of fertili zers, in order to make these products free flowing and non dusting. The anti caking agent is prepared by mixing the components at a temperature above the melting point for the organic compounds and conversion of the ob tained mixture to particulate form.

## Claims
Claims 1. Anti caking agent, in the form of prills, granules or the like, based on inorganic powder material and hydrophobic organic compounds, c h a r a c t e r i z e d in, that it comprises 20 to 60 per cent by weight of inorganic powder, 10 to 30 per cent by weight of a cationic amine, having the general formula RNH2 or RNH CH2 nNH2, wherein R is an aliphatic hydrophobic group, containing at least 12 carbon atoms , and n is 1 5, or a salt thereof, 5 to 35 per cent by weight of a wax, 0 to 20 per cent by weight of a fatty amide and 5 to 35 per cent by weight of an alkoxylated primary aliphatic alcohol, having at least 12 carbon atoms in the aliphatic group, or an alkoxyladen alkylphenol, wherein the alkyl group contains at least 8 carbon atoms. 2. An agent according to claim 1, c h a r a c t e r i z e d in, that t comprises an amine of the general formula RNH2, wherein R is an aliphatic hydrophobic group, having 12 t6 24 carbon atoms, or a salt thereof. 3. An agent according to claim 1, c h a r a c t e r i z e d in, that it contains a condensation product between a primary aliphatic alcohol, having at least 12 carbon atoms in the aliphatic group, and 15 to 120 moles of ethylene oxide, propylene oxide or a mixture thereof. 4. A process for the preparation of an anti caking agent in the form of prills, granules of the like, based on inorganic powder material and hydrophobic organic compounds, according to claim 1, c h a r a c t e r i z e d in, that 10 to 30 per cent by weight of a cationic amine, having the general formula RNH2 or RNH CH2 nNH2, wherein R is an aliphatic hydrophobic group, having at least 12 carbon atoms, and n is 1 5, or a salt thereof, 5 to 35 per cent by weight of a wax, 0 to 20 per cent by weight of a fatty amide, and 5 to 35 per cent by weight of an alkoxylated primary aliphatic alcohol, having at least 12 carbon atoms in the aliphatic group, or an alkoxylated alkylphenol, where the alkyl group contains at least 8 carbon atoms, are mixed at a temperature exceeding the melting point of all the components, whereafter 20 to 50 per cent by weight of inorganic powder material are admixed in order to obtain an intimate molten down mixture, which mixture is converted into particle form. 5. Use of an anti caking agent according to claim 1 for treatment of fertilizers.

## Description
Anti caking agent, a process for its preparation and its use The present invention relates to an agent for the treatment of products, which tend to cake, particularly for treatment cf fertilizers, in order to make these products free flowing and non dusting. ore particularly, the invention relates to such an agent, comprising both an inorganic material and organic compounds, and which agent is in the form of prills, granules or the like. It is well known to treat salts and fertilizers containing water soluble salts te prevent their caking during storage, transport and handling. Anti caking treatment can be carried out either with liquid or solid agents and in one or several steps.Different types of organi surface active compounds, such as fatty amines, salts of fatty amines, sulphonates etc. have since long been used for anti caking treatment. Arther inorganic powder materials such as talc, lime and clay have been used o a great extent, as they are advantageous from an economical point of view, and these inoranic materials are generally used in combination with organic anti caking agents.However, one disadvantage in using powders is, that they often give rise to serious dusting problems. A method and an agent for anti caking treatment, giving a considerable reduction of the dusting problems, have been sug gusted in the Swedish patent m48 116, which discloses a solid anti caking agent, comprising powder material and hydrophobing organic compounds, where the powder material is completely mixed into the organic phase and the mixture is converted to prills or granules. Amines have mainly been used as hydrophobing compounds in these agents. According to the present invention, it has been found, that an agent with extremely satisfactory anti caking effect, and which does not give rise to annoying dusting problems at handling or application, as it is in the form of prills or granules, is obtained by a combination of inorganic powder material and specific organic compounds in specific amounts.The agent of the invention contains certain alkoxylated compounds, and this gives a considerable increase of the anticaking effect in comparison with previously known, solid anti caking agents in a corresponding form. The inorganic powder material in the present agents is completely mixed into the organic phase and the composition is, by means of a special treatment step, converted into particle form, e.g. into prills or granules. Hereby an agent is obtained, which in itself is non dusting, and thus can be handled, transported and applied without dust problems. Products with a tendency to caking will, after treatment with the agents, show a clearly reduced tendency to dusting, compared with untreated products. The agent according to the invention contains 20 to 60 per cent by weight of an inorganic powder material, 10 to 30 per cent by weight of a cationic amine or salts thereof, 5 to 35 per cent by weight of a wax, 0 to 20 per cent by weight of a fatty amide and 5 to 35 per cent by weight of alkoxylated primary aliphatic alcohols, having at least 12 carbon atoms, or alkylphenols, having at least 8 carbon atoms in the all yl chain. By the above given combination of specific compcnents in specific amounts an agent is obtained, which gives surprisingly good anti caking effect, and products treated with the agent have a considerably reduced tendency to dusting. The selected components and their amounts make a complete mixing of the inorganic material into the organic phase possible and further it makes the conversion of the composition into particle form possible and also gives a product, which is solid at room temperature. In the present agents any known powder material can be used, e.g. kieselguhr, talcum, clays or mixtures thereof. The particle size of the powder material is not particularly important. It is, however, suitable that 50 per cent of the material has a diameter below 4Ojim and preferably 50 per cent of the material has a diameter below 20 Xm. A high content cf inorganic material is, of course, preferable from an economical point of view. Too high contents may, however, give rise to problems at the production of the agents and to dusting, and thus the content should be within the range of 20 te 60 per cent by weight, and preferably within the range 35 to 50 per cent by weight, based on the total composition. The organic phase of the agents comprises t rf o rent components, amines or amine salts, wax or a combination of wax and fatty amide and alkoxylated products. Of these components, the combination of amine products and the alkoxylated products contribute mainly to the anti caking effect, while the waxes are of particular importance for the reduction of dusting.The anti caking agent thus consists of 20 to 60 per cent by weight of Inorganic material, 10 to 30 per cent by weight of wax or a mixture of waxes, 0 to 20 per cent by weight of a fatty amide and 5 to 35 per cent by weight of an alkoxylated aliphatic alcohol or an alkoxylated alkylphenol. The caionic amines are present in the agents in amounts of 10 to 30 per cent by weight and the amines aremonosmines or diamines of the general formula RNH2 or RNH CH2 nNH2, wherein R is an aliphatic hydrophobic group, having at least 12 carbon atoms, suitably 12 to 24 carbon atoms, and n is 1 5, preferably 2, or salts thereof. The hydrophobic group can be straight or branched, saturated or unsaturated. R is suitably an alkyl group, containing 12 to 24 carbon atoms, and preferably 16 to 20 carbon atoms. Monoamines of above given formula, or salts thereof, are preferred. As examples of suitable amines can be mentioned tetradecylamine, hexadecylamine, octadecylamine and eicosylamine.Particularly suitable are the commercial amines, which comprise mixtures of amines, having varying carbon chain lengths, and which are obtained from different vegetable and animal fats and oils, for example from tallow. As examples of suitable salts of amines can be mentioned hydrochlorides, acetates and salts of the amines and fatty acids having about 6 to 22 carbon atoms, such as lauric acid and stearic acid. The agents contain 5 to 35 per cent by weight of wax.As wax materials, it is possible to use polyolefins, such as polyethylene, natural or synthetic paraffin waxes, microcrystalline waxes and mixtures of such waxes. Part of the wax can also be replaced by fatty amides, i.e. amides having hydrophobic groups, corresponding to those mentioned for the amine material.Amides can hereby be present in a weight ratio of up to 2 1 with respect to the wax. The wax is selected with respect to the fact, that it will give a suitable viscosity for the following conversion of the total nomposition into prills or gran ules By alkoxylated products are understood condensation products between ethylene oxide, propylene oxide or butylene oxide, preferably ethylene oxide and propylene oxide or mixtures thereof, and alcohols or alkylphenol. The alcohols are alkoxylated primary aliphatic alcohols having at least 12 carbon atoms in the aliphatic group, suitably 12 to 24 carbon atoms, and preferably 16 to 20 carbon atoms. Alkyl groups are preferred. The alkylphenols contain alkyl groups, having at least 8 carbon atoms suitably 8 to 20 and preferably 8 to 12 carbon atoms.As examples of suitable phenols can be mentioned nonylphenol and octylphenol. The alkoxylated aliphatic alcohols are preferred The amount of alkylene oxide groups is suitably within the range 15 to 120, and preferably within the range 20 to 100. 5 to 35 per cent by weight of alkoxylated products are present in the compositions. The agents according to the invention can be prepared by mixing the components at a temperature above the melting point of the organic compounds, in order that an intimate molten down mixture be obtained. The obtained mixture is thereafter converted to a particulate form, e.g. to granules, prills or pellets, e.g. by treatment in a granulator or spraying in a cooling tower for the formation of prills. At the blending of the components, colouring agents or fluorescent agents can, if desired, be introduced into the anti caking agents. The obtained particulate anti caking agents suitably have a diameter exceeding 0.4 mm. The agents according to the invention are mainly used for treatment of fertilizers. Treatment of fertilizers with the anti caking agents of the invention is suitably carried out at a temperature above the melting point for the agents, and the agents are suitably applied to warm fertIlizers, in order that they will melt out on these, e.g. in a drum. It is, of course, also possible to apply the agents in other manners, it is e.g. possible to cover the inner side of the treatingdrum, into which the fertilizer is introduced, with molten anti caking agent. The amount of anti caking agent required, in order to obtain a satisfactory effect, will, cf course, vary with the composition of the fertilizers and their tendency to caking. Amounts within the range of 0.03 to 0.4 per cent by weight, based on the fertilizer, can for example be used.In most cases, amounts within the range of 0.08 to 0.20 per cent by weight are used. Fertilizers, and other salts, treated with the present agents, have improved storage capability and reduced tendency to dusting, and, at the same time, the agents themselves do not give rise to dusting, and they can, thanks to their specific form, be handled and metered out in a simple manner. The invention also relates to a process for the preparation of the agents and to the use of the agents in accordance with what has been said above, and as defined in the claims. The invention is further illustrated in the following examples, which, however, are not intended to limit the same. Parts and per cent relate to parts by weight and per cent by weight, respectively, unless otherwise stated.Example 1 A mixture of 10 per cent by weight of a fatty amine having a chain length of Cl6l8, 30 per cent by weight of paraffin wax and 30.per cent by weight of an alcohol having a chain length of C16 18 etho xylated with 30 moles of ethylene oxide was melted in a reactor at 800C during vigorous stirring. 30 per cent by weight of talcum were then added during continued stirring and the obtained mixture was at 800C sprayed in a prilling tower. The droplets solidified during the free fall and prills having the following size distribution were obtained 2 4 mm 18 , 1 2 mm 74 j, 0.63 1 mm 7 , 0 0.63 mm l .Example 2 2000 grams of NPK 15 15 15 in the form of granules were warmed to 850C in a rotating bowl, whereafter 3.0 grams of anti caking agent were added. The rotation was continued at a constant temperature for 10 minutes, and hereby the agents melted out completely and covered the granules with a thin layer. The treated fertilizer was thereafter subjected to an accelerated storage test for 68 hours with programmed temperature variations between 35 and 38 0C at a relative humidity, corresponding to the CRH of the fertilizer under a pressure of 150 kPa, which corresponds to storage height of about 15 m. After storage the crush force, which is a direct measure of the caking tendency, was determined. The tendency to dusting of the treated fertilizer was determined by rotation of a sample of this in a drum for two minutes. The anti caking treatment was carried our with two different agents a a.previously known agent in the form of small prills and consisting of 50 i talcum and 50 fatty amines having a chain length of C1618, b an agent ccord ing to the invention in the form of small prills and consisting of 45 talcum, 20 , fatty amine having a chain length of Con6 18 10 .S polyethylene wax and 25 of an aliphatic alcohol, having a carbon chain length of C16 to C18, ethoxylated with 30 moles ethylene oxide. The results are shown in the Table below.Anti caking agent Crush force NlO1 Dusting mg kgUntreated NPK 15.4 7Agent a 4.6 7Agent b 2.0 4Example 3 2000 grams of NPK 15 15 15 were treated with 3.0 grams of different anti caking agents according to the invention in the form of small prills. The treatment and the tests were carried our in accordance with what is said inExample 1.Agents, having the following compositions, were tested a 45 5 talcum, 15 i fatty amine, 20 microcrystalline wax, 20 of an alcohol, having a chaIn length of C16 C18 ethoxylated with 30 moles ethylene oxide, b 20 talcum, 30 fatty amine, 15 microcrystalline wax, 35 ,0 of an alcohol, having a chain length of C16 C18 ethoxylated with 8C moles ethylene oxide, c 30 talcum, 10 a fatty amine, 30 paraffin wax, 30 of an alcohol, having a chain length of C16 C18 ethoxylated ith 30 moles ethylene oxide, d 45 talcum, 15 fatty amine, 20 of a mixture of microcrystalline was and fatty amide, 20 of an alcohol, having a chain length of C16 C18 ethoxylated with 80 moles of ethylene oxide, e 45 talcum, 15 fatty amine, 20 of a mixture of microcrystalline wax and fatty amide, 20 of a nonylphenol ethoxylated with 50 moles ethylene oxide. The fatty amine in all compositions had a chain length of C16 18 The results are shown in the Table below.Anti caking agent Crush force N 10 Dusting mg kgUntreated NPK 15.4 7Agent a 2.7 2Agent b 2.5 6Agent c 2.7 4Agent d 2.5 3Agent e 3.7 2