# 1 Alpha,3 beta dihydroxy steroid 5 enes from 1 alpha,2 alpha epoxy steroid 4,6 dien 3 ones.

## Abstract
Improved yields of 1 alpha,3beta dihydroxy steroid 5 enes are obtained by the addition of the alkali metal liquid ammonia reduction products of 1 alpha,2alpha epoxy 4,6 dien 3 one steroids to a quenching agent such as liquid ammonia ammonium chloride mixture. Specific steroids reduced by these procedures include 1 alpha,2alpha epoxycholesta 4,6 dien 3 one and 25 hydroxy 1 alpha,2 alpha epoxycholesta 4,6 dien 3 one.

## Claims
WHAT IS CLAIMED IS 1. A process for the preparation of a compound of the formulaEMI10.1 wherein R5 represents a group of the formulaEMI10.2 wherein R6 and R7 are each H or OH or together form a carbon carbon bond or epoxy group, R8 and R10 are each H or OH, and R9 is H, CH3 orC2H5, comprising adding the alkali metal liquid ammonia reduced steroid mixture to a liquid ammonia ammonium chloride mixture wherein the steroid is a compound of the formulaEMI10.3 wherein R1 is OH and R2 is H or R1 and R2 together form an epoxide group, R3 represents H, OH or reductively eliminatable atom or group and R4 is H cr R3 and R4 together form a carbon carbon bond and R5 is as defined above. 2. The process of Claim 1 wherein the alkali metal is lithium. 3. The process of Claim 1 wherein tetrahydrofuran is present in the solution. 4. The process of Claim 1 wherein tetrahydrofuran is present in the mixture. 5. The process of Claim 1 wherein the steroid is 1 alpha,2 alphaepoxycholesta 4,6 dien 3 one and the compound produced from the steroid is 1 alpha hydroxycholesterol. 6. The process of Claim 1 wherein the steroid is 25 hydroxy1 alpha,2 alpha epoxycholesta 4,6 dien 3 one and the compound produced from the steroid is 1 alpha,25 dihydroxycholesterol.

## Description
1 ALPHA,3 BETA DIHYDROXY STEROID 5 ENES FROM 1 ALPHA,2 ALPHA EPOXY STEROID 4,6 DIEN 3 ONES BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION 1. Field of the Invention This invention relates to reduction of 1 alpha,2 alpha epoxy steroid4,6 dien 3 ones directly to the corresponding 1 alpha,3 beta dihydroxy steroid 5 enes. 2. Description of the Prior Art 1 Alpha,3 beta dihydroxy steroid 5 enes are useful intermediates in the synthesis of 1 alpha hydroxy vitamin D derivatives. Barton et al, J.A.C.S. 95 8, 2748 1973 describe reduction of 1 alpha,2 alpha epoxycholesta 4,6 dien 3 one with large excesses of each of lithium metal and ammonium chloride in ammonia tetrahydrofuran at reflux to obtain 1 alpha,3 beta dihydroxycholest 5 ene which is a precursor of 1 alpha hydroxyvitamin D3. U.S. Patent No. 3,901,928 Hesse et al., issued August 26, 1975, describe direct reduction of 1 alpha hydroxy and 1 alpha,2 alpha epoxy steroid4,6 dien 3 ones and corresponding 6 substituted steroid 4 en 3 ones, where the 6 substituent is a reductively eliminatable atom or group, to the corresponding 1 alpha,3 beta dihydroxy steroid 5 ene by reaction with an alkali metal liquid ammonia or alkali metal liquid amine reducing agent in the presence of a proton source such as ammonium chloride. These references utilize various modes of addition to bring the reactants together. For example, a solution of the steroid is added in one or more portions to a solution of the alkali metal in liquid ammonia or a liquid amine, with subsequent addition in one or more portions of the proton source. Alternatively, improved yields and or greater ease of isolation of the reduced steroid are claimed if the proton source is initially present in the solution of the steroid starting material in liquid ammonia or liquid amine and the reducing agent is then added in portions. However, these procedures produce 6 ene compounds rather than the desired 5 ene compounds. U.S. Patent No. 3,966,777 Mazur et al., issued June 29, 1976, describe adding 1 alpha,2 alpha epoxycholesta 4,6 dien 3 one dissolved in a suitable solvent at a low temperature of about 300 to liquid ammonia, then adding ammonium chloride followed by lithium metal. Suitable solvents include ethers, such as tetrahydrofuran. An excess of ammonium chloride is added and is followed by addition of an excess of lithium. The ammonium chloride and lithium metal additions are repeated several times, usually between 4 and 7 times. The principal product is the undesired 1 alpha,3 beta dihydroxycholest 6 ene which is obtained in a yield of about 50 percent. Improved processes for these useful dihydroxy steroid 5 ene intermediates are needed in the synthesis of 1 alpha hydroxyvitamin D derivatives. SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION Improved yields of 1 alpha,3 beta dihydroxy steriod 5 enes are obtained by the addition of the alkali metallliquid ammonia reduction products of 1 alpha,2 alpha epoxy steroid 4,6 dien 3 ones to a liquid ammonia ammonium chloride quenching mixture. Steroids such as 1 alpha,2 alpha epoxycholesta 4,6 dien 3 one and 25hydroxy l alpha,2 alpha epoxycholesta 4,6 dien 3 one may be reduced by this procedure to 1 alpha,3 beta dihydroxycholest 5 ene 1 alpha hydroxycholesterol and 1 alpha, 3 beta,25 trihydroxycholest 5 ene 1 alpha, 25 dihydroxycholesterol . DESCRIPTION OF THE PREFERRED EMBODIMENTS This process is useful in the preparation of 1 alpha hydroxy steroids of the cholestane series which are precursors for 1 alpha hydroxylated vitamin D derivatives. The process of the present invention permits production of 1 alphahydroxycholesterol and 1 alpha,25 dihydroxycholesterol by a novel, heretofore unrecognized modification of a prior art process. An advantage of this process is the preparation of purified 1 alpha hydroxylated steroids in higher yields than obtained by any previously described method. The term cholestane series as used herein encompasses steroids having in the 17 position the C8 chain characteristic of cholestanes, as well as analogous compounds where this chain is unsaturated or is substituted with one or more hydroxy or methyl groups, these being the 17 side chains found in the D vitamins and vitamin D derivatives.Suitable ketone starting materials for the preparation of such 1 alpha hydroxy steroids of the cholestane series may be represented by the formulaEMI3.1 where R1 is a hydroxyl group and R2 is a hydrogen atom or R1 and R2 together form an epoxide group 0 3 and R3 may be hydrogen, hydroxide or a reductively eliminatable atom or group and R4 is a hydrogen atom or R3 and R4 together form a carbon carbon bond, and R5 is a groupEMI3.2 6 where R and R7 each is a hydrogen atom or hydroxyl group or together form a 8 1 carbon carbon bond or epoxy group. R8 or R 10, which may be the same or different, each is a hydrogen atom or a hydroxyl group, and R9 is a hydrogen atom or a methyl or ethyl group. Reduction of a compound of formula I using the process of this invention produces a 1 alpha,3 beta diol of the formulaEMI4.1 where R5 is as defined in formula I . Alkali metals which may be used in the reducing agent include lithium, sodium and potassium with lithium being the preferred metal. A preferred reducing agent is lithium in liquid ammonia. Proton sources which may be used in the reduction include ammonium and amine salts, e.g., salts derived from mineral acids, such as the halides, e.g., fluoride or chloride, nitrate or sulfate. The reduction is conveniently carried out in the presence of a solvent, preferably an inert organic solvent such as cyclic ether, e.g., tetrahydrofuran or dioxane or a hydrocarbon solvent such as hexane. It is advantageous to exclude moisture and or oxygen from the reduction svstem. When solvent is used, the reduction is conveniently carried out at a temperature between the freezing point of the solvent and 1000C, preferably in the cold. It is well accepted that vitamin D3 must undergo an obligatory twostep metabolism before its characteristic biological effects, intestinal calcium transport and bone calcium mobilization can be manifested. The ultimate metabolite now recognized as responsible for the known biological effects is 1 alpha,25 dihydroxyvilamin D3 1 alpha,25 dihydroxycholecal ciferol . Although 1 alpha,25 dihydroxyvitamin D3 is the most potent and fastest acting form of vitamin D3 known, it has been shown that the administration of I alpha hydroxyvitamin D3, an analog of vitamin D3, significantly reduces the time required for onset of the intestinal calcium transport and bone calcium mobilization responses, relative to compounds not containing the 1 alpha hydroxyl substituent. The use of 1 alpha hydroxyvitamin D. could circumvent metabolic disorders which prevent the 1 alpha hydroxylation from taking place biologically. The obvious therapeutic advantage of using compounds containing the 1 alpha hydroxyl moiety made the synthesis of 1 alphahydroxylated compounds a useful endeavor for the organic chemist. Crystalline 1 alpha,25 dihydroxyvitamin D3 was synthesized in 8 steps by Barton and coworkers beginning with 25 hydroxycholesterol 3. Chem. Soc.Chem. Comm. 203 1974 . The latter process described the advantageous, simultaneous introduction of the 1 alpha , and 3 beta hydroxyl moieties by the lithium liquid ammonia reduction of 25 hydroxy 1 alpha,2 alpha epoxycholesta4,6 dien 3 one. The advantage of this process is the predictable stereochemistry of the resulting hydroxyl groups. In the preferred embodiment described by Hessee, Rizzardo andBarton U.S. Patent No. 3,901,928, issued August 26, 1975 , the stated yield for the reduction by lithium liquid ammonia of 1 alpha,2 alpha epoxycholes.a 4,6 dien 3 one to 1 alpha,3 beta dihydroxycholest 5 ene was 39.5 percent 1.7 g product from 4.3 g starting material . The preferred embodiment described byHesse et al. in Example Ic that afforded the aforementioned yield consis.ea of the slow addition of a solution of 1 alpha,2 alpha epoxycholesta 4,6 dien one in dry tetrahydrofuran to a mixture of lithium and ammonium chloride in liquid ammonia containing dry tetrahydrofuran.When the blue color was discharged, steroid addition was discontinued and further lithium and ammonium chloride were added followed by further addition of the steroid solution. This sequence was repeated until all of the steroid was added. At this point, an additional U ece of lithium was added followed by additional ammonium chloride. One modification of this procedure consists of reducing 1 alpha,2 alpha epoxycholesta 4,6 dien 3 one in lithium ammonia prior to protonation of the reaction intermediate enolate with externally added solid ammonium chloride. Our determination that this externally supplied proton source must be added as rapidly as possible led to the present invention. More exactly, when the solid ammonium chloride was added slowly 40 to 150 minutes to the reduction reaction mixture, very little of the desired 1 alpha,3 beta dihydroxycholest 5 ene could be isolated. When the proton source was added rapidly less than one minute , the desired product was isolated in high yield.This procedure proved successful for small scale reactions 5 g or less , but failed completely when attempted on a scaled up batch 15 g . It was further deterrnined that the addition of the solid ammonium chloride to the larger scale reaction resulted in uncontrollable foaming, presumably due to heat generation within the reaction flask. As a result, it was necessary to add the solid ammonium chloride to the reduction mixture more slowly 40 two 55 minutes than had been determined conducive to the production of high yields of the desired reduction product, 1 alpha,3 beta dihydroxycholest 5 ene. It was found in the present invention that the yields of 1 alphahydroxylated steroids derived from the lithium ammonia reduction of 1 alpha,2 alpha epoxy steroid 4,6 dien 3 ones can be significantly increased by modifying the above procedures. More specifically, the modified reduction with lithium ammonia of the 1 alpha,2 alpha epoxycholesta 4,6 dien 3 one afforded high yields of 1 alpha hydroxycholesterol yields of 54 to 55 percent were consistently obtained after purification by direct crystallization . The process employed to obtain these high yields of 1 alpha hydroxycholesterol required rapid quenching of the lithium ammonia reduction product by inverse addition of the reaction mixture to a mixture of solid ammonium chloride in refluxing liquid ammonia with or without the presence of tetrahydrofuran.By utilizing the inverse addition procedure described above, it is possible to circumvent the problems associated with sloW addition of ammonium chloride to large reaction mixtures. By utilizing the inverse addition procedure, the reduction product is instantaneously protonated upon contact with the ammonium chloride. A unique result of the process of this invention is that it allows the rapid quenching of any lithium ammonia reduction product without regard to the size of the reduction scale up. Consistently higher yields of 1 alpha,3 beta dihydroxycholest 5 ene have been obtained using this process. For a fuller understanding of the nature of this invention, reference may be made to the following examples which are given merely to illustrate the invention and are not to be construed in a limiting sense. All weights, proportions and percentages are on a weight basis unless otherwise indicated. 0Likewise, all temperatures are C unless otherwise indicated. Example I This example demonstrates synthesis of 1 alpha hydroxycholesterol according to the prior art and is outside the scope of this invention. A three liter three neck round bottom flask was charged with 1000 ml liquid ammonia under a static nitrogen atmosphere. Lithium metal 13.7 g, 1.97 g atom was dissolved in the ammonia giving a deep blue black solution. 1 Alpha,2 alpha epoxycholesta 4,6 dien 3 one 11.10 g, 0.028 mole dissolved in 250 ml dry tetrahydrofuran was added dropwise in 30 minutes to the stirred lithium ammonia solution. After the steroid was added, the mixture was stirred at reflux 330C for 3 hours. Solid ammonium chloride 70 g was then added over 40 minutes after which the mixture was stirred an additional hour. Cautious quenching with 20 ml saturated, aqueous ammonium chloride resulted in complete bleaching of the reaction mixture. After standing overnight to evaporate the ammonia, the abundant salts were dissolved in water, and the entire mixture extracted with several aliquots of ether. The combined ether extracts were washed with water and evaporated to a small volume.The residue was dissolved in methylene chloride CH2C12 , dried with sodium sulfate Na2SO4 and evaporated to give 10.8 g of a brown orange syrup. TLC thin layer chromatography of this material indicated little 1 alpha,3 beta dihydroxycholesta 5 ene 1 alpha hydroxycholesterol present. Example II This example de lonstrates synthesis of 1 alpha hydroxycholesterol according to this invention and is within the scope of this invention. A one liter three necked round beltom flask was charged with 4G5 ml of liquid ammonia under anhydrous conditions. Lithium metal 6.33 g was added in small pieces to the ammonia resulting in a deep blue black solution.1 Alpha,2 alpha epoxycholesta 4,6 dien 3 one 5.1 g was dissolved in a 10O ml dry tetrahydrofuran and added dropwise to the stirred lithium ammonia solution over 30 minutes. The molar ratio of metal to steroid was 70 1. The dry ice acetone bath was removed and the mixture refluxed 330C for 2.25 hours.A quenching mixture was prepared in a second vessles and contained 200 ml liquid ammonia and 15 g solid ammonium chloride. Transfer of the reaction mixture alkali metal liquid ammonia reduction products of the steroid to the quenching mixture through a Teflon2 tube was accomplished with positive nitrogen pressure. An immediate bleaching occurred as the two liquids came in contact. Additional solid ammonium chloride 65 g total was added when the blue color persisted. After completing transfer, ammonia was allowed to evaporate and the salts dissolved in 100 ml water. The layers were separated and the water layer extracted with ether. The combined organic layers were washed with water until neutral, filtered through anhydrous sodium sulfate and concentrated to dryness. An amber solid 6.1 g which was 85 to 90 percent pure by TLC was crystallized from ethanol to obtain 2.83 g white crystals 54.6 percent yield 1 alpha hydroxycholesterol. Example III This example demonstrates synthesis of 1 alpha,25 dihydroxycholesterol according to the prior art and is outside the scope fo this invention. 110 ml dry ammonia was condensed into an appropriate receiver under anhydrous conditions. A total of 1.7 g lithium metal was added 0.1 to 0.3 g chunks to the liquid ammonia at 700C to give a deep blue black solution that was diluted with 70 ml dry tetrahydrofuran. 25 Hydroxy l alpha,2 alphaepoxycholesta 4,6 dien 3 one 1.2 g was dissolved in 30 ml dry tetrahydrofuran and added dropwise 65 minutes to the stirred lithium ammonia solution. The mixture was then stirred at reflux for 3 hours. Solid ammonium chloride 14.1 g was then added in 750 mg portions at 10 minute intervals to slowly quench the reaction enolate. Product worked up as described above.TLC showed at least 7 or 8 reaction products present of which 1 alpha,25 dihydroxycholesterol represented only ca 5 percent or less. No pure material was obtained after column chromatography. Example IV This example demonstrates synthesis of 1 alpha,25 dihydroxycholesterol according to this invention and is within the scope of this invention. Approximately 100 ml ammonia was condensed into an appropriate receiver under anhydrous conditions. A total of 1.7 g lithium metal was added in 0 small chunks to the ammonia at 70 C. The resulting blue black solution was stirred at 700C for 15 minutes, then diluted with 65 ml dry tetrahydrofuran.25 Hydroxy 1 alpha,2 alpha epoxycholesta 4,6 dien 3 one 1.2 g dissolved in 25 ml dry tetrahydrofuran was added dropwise in 25 to 30 minutes to the rapidly agitated lithium ammonia solution. The molar ratio of metal to steroid was 85 1.The addition funnel was washed with an additional 10 ml tetrahydrofuran. After stirring for 15 minutes at 700C, the reaction mixture was refluxed for 3 hours at liquid ammonia temperature. The entire reaction mixture was quenched by forcing it through c 2 mm Teflon tube into a receiving flask containing a stirred, refluxing mixture of ammonia, tetrahydrofuran and ammonium chloride. Transfer was affected by positive nitrogen pressure. The crude reaction mixture contains ca 50 percent desired product by TLC. After work up, the golden yellow foam was chromatographed over silica gel benzene ethyl acetate .1 Alpha,25 dihydroxycholesterol melts 171 to 1720C, solidifies and remelts 177 to 1780C was eluted from the silica gel in ethyl acetate to obtain 0.180 g 14.8 percent yield . While the invention has been described with reference to certain specific embodiments thereof, it is understood that it is not to be so limited since alterations and changes may be made therein which are within the full and intended scope of the appended claims.