# Anti inflammatory agent.

## Abstract
Aloctin A which has now been found to be useful as anti inflammatory agent, is shown in Biochem., 85, 163 171, 1979 and Japanese Patent Application Laid Open 73109 79. However, the anti inflammatory activity of Aloctin A has so far as is known not been heretofore described.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. Anti inflammatory agent containing as active component Aloctin A. 2. A anti inflammatory composition containing an essential active ingredient Aloctin A and a carrier therefor.

## Description
ABSTRACT OF DISCLOSURE Anti inflammatory agent containing as active componentAloctin A which is separated from Aloe arborescens Mill. BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION Aloctin A which has now been found to be useful as antiinflammatory agent, is shown in Biochem., 85, 163 171, 979 and Japanese Patent Application Laid Open 73109 79. However, the anti inflammatory activity of Aloctin A has so far as is known not been heretofore described. SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION The present invention relates to a new anti inflammatory agent. There is a report on two lectin separated from Aloe arborescens Mill. J. Biochem., 85, 163 171, 1979 . The present inventor has found that Aloctin A this beeing called lectin P 2 in said literature, Japanese Patent ApplicationLaid Open No. 73109 1979 shows the excellent anti inflammatory activity, by subsequent studies. The invention is based on this discovery. In the present invention there can be used not onlyAloctin A but also Aloctin A containing substances, e.g., the substance which is prepared by subjecting Aloe juice to salting out treatment, treating the resulting precipitate with alkaline aqueous solution to solubilize it, and then making the resulting solution acidic to form a precipitate hereinafter this called Aloe acidic precipitate . This Aloe acidic precipitate shows more than 50 carragenin edema inhibition to rat at a dosage of 2 50 mg kg by intravenous injection, and is also expected to be effective in the control of chronic inflammation. The acute toxicity of AloctinA in mice is 400 mg kg by subcutaneous injection, and therefore Aloctin A is a highly safe drug. The proper dose of Aloctin A for adult human varies by the cases, and is generally about 0.1 1.0 g.Administration can be done orally or subcutaneous injection, and it is also possible to apply the drug directly to skin.Suitable formulations are e.g., ointment, granule, tablet, capsule and injection. These formulations can be prepared in conventional manner using a general carrier or diluent. The invention will be illustrated in more details in the Example and Tests.EXAMPLE 1 kg of leaves of Aloe arborescens Mill is well crushed and the juice is filtrated with gauze. The juice is centrifuged for 30 minutes at 10,000 r.p.m. to remove contaminations and large substances. The supernatant is subjected to 0 40 ammonium sulfate fractionation, and then centrifuged for 30 minutes at 10,000 r.p.m. and obtain a precipitate.The precipitate is dissolved in 0.05 M sodium carbonate sodium bicarbonate buffer pH 9.5 and the resulting solution is subjected to dialysis against the same buffer to remove the salt, desalting and lyophilizing. Thus obtained precipitate is dissolved in sodium carbonate sodium bicarbonate buffer pH 9.5 , and then a small amount of 1 M of acetic acid is added to adjest the pH to 4.4. Centrifugation is carried out for 20 minutes at 10,000 r.p.m. to obtain the precipitate.The precipitate is lyophilized to give 60 mg of Aloe acid precipitate.TEST 1 ON THE INHIBITION OF EDEMA OF WE STAR MALE RAT Five ml kg of distilled water is administered orally toWistar male rat. Each group consists of 6 male rats of 120 140 g body weight. After 30 minutes, Aloe acidic precipitate is intravenously injected at a rate of 0.5, 1, 2, 5, 10, 25, and 50 mg kg, as a solution of isotonic sodium chloride, and then after 30 minutes 0.1 ml of 1 carragenin solution is injected to a hind paw of rat. The volume of hind paw after admistration of carragenin, is measured, and edema inhibition precentage is determined from the value before administration of carragenin.The results are shown in Table 1. Table 1Dosage Edema inhibition percentage mg kg 1 hr. 3 hr. 4 hr. 5 hr. 0.5 3.9 37.4 36.3 37.1 1 10.0 33.4 38.2 25.6 2 24.4 63.9 62.6 45.5 5 5.0 53.1 59.5 51.0 10 6.6 44.8 51.0 56.2 25 2.3 83.8 92.0 96.0 50 1.1 91.6 92.0 96.0 Test 2 Activity on ACII The activity of Aloe acid precipitate on ACII Ad3uvant Carragenin Induced Inflammation is tested in accordance with the method described by Mizushima et. al, in J. Pharm.Pharmacol., 24, 781, 1972 . Each group consists of 8 femaleSprague Dawley rats of 200 240 g body weight. 0.1 ml of adjuvant and Mycobacterium butyricum 0.6 mg 0.1 ml, in liquid paraffine are administered, and on the fifth day 10 mg kg of Aloe acidic precipitate in physiological saline solution is administered.On the 6th day after administration of adjuvant, 0.1 ml of 1 carragenin solution is administered, and the volume of hind paw is measured at 3 and 72 hours after carragenin administration. The edema inhibiting ratio is determined from both values of hind paw of pre and post administration of carragenin. Ten mg kg of aloe acidic precipitates in physiological saline are administered at 1 hour before and at 24 hours after administration of carragenin. Therefore, administration of the Aloe acid precipitate is carried out three times. Similar test is performed using cyclophosphamide as control. The results are shown in Table 2. Table 2 Drugs Dossage Edema inhibition percentage S.E. mg kg Acute Phase Delayed PhaseAloe acid precipitate 10 62.8 7.3 39.7 5.9 Cyclophosphami 10 13.6 3.0 1 50.0 2.5 2 de control 1 P 0.05 2 p 0.01 3 P 0.001