# 4,5 Diaryl alpha polyfluoroalkyl 1H pyrrole 2 methanols and 1 4,5 diaryl 1H pyrrol 2 yl polyfluoroalkanones, processes for preparing them and pharmaceutical compositions.

## Abstract
4,5 Diaryl α polyfluoroalkyl 1H pyrrole 2 methanols and 1 4,5 diary 1H pyrrol 2 yl polyfluoroalkanones are useful in treatment of inflammation and relieving pain.

## Claims
What is Claimed is 1. A compound of the formulaEMI47.1 wherein R H or C C2 alkyl R2 and R3 independently 3 pyridyl or whereEMI47.2 X H, F, C1, Br, NO2, C1 C2 alkyl, C1 C2 alkoxy, di C1 C2 alkyl amino or CH3S O n where n 0, 1 or 2 and Y H, F or C1 with the proviso that when Y is F or C1, then X is F or C1 R4 and R5 independently H, CF3, CF2H, CFCl2, CF2C1, CF2CF3 or C1 C3 alkyl with the proviso that no more than one of R4 orR5 can be selected from the group consisting ofH and C1 C3 alkyl and the further proviso that no more than one of R4 or R5 can be CF2CF3 or R4 and R5 taken together CF2CF2CFZ , where Z F, C1 or Br R6 H C1 C6 alkyl benzyl or benzyl substituted with F, C1, Br, N02 or CF3 R7 H C1 C6 alkyl benzyl benzyl substituted with F, C1, Br, NO2, CF3, C1 C2 alkyl, or C1 C2 alkoxy benoy1 or benzoylEMI48.1 substituted with F, C1, Br, NO21 CF3, C1 C2 alkyl,or C1 C2 alkoxy or COOR8 R8 C1 C4 alkyl phenyl phenyl substituted with Fr Cl, Br, NO2, CF3, C1 C2 alkyl,or C1 C2 alkoxy benzyl or benzyl substituted with F, C1, Br, NO2, CF3, C1 C2 alkyl or C1 C2 alkoxy with. the proviso that R6 cannot be H when R7 is alkanoyl, benzoyl or substituted benzoyl, or COOR8 or a pharmaceutically suitable acid addition salt whereR2 or R3 is 3 pyridyl or X is dialkylamino or a pharmaceutically suitable metal salt when R7 is H. 2. A compound of Claim 1 whereX H, F, C1, Br, C1 C2 alkyl, C1 C2 alkoxy, di C1 C2 alkyl amino or CH3S O n R4 and R5 independently CF3, CF2H or CF2C1 orR4 an R5 taken together CF2CF2CF2 R6 H andR7 H. 3. A compound of Claim 1 where R1 H or methyl. 4. A compound of Claim 1 where R2 and R3 independently EMI49.1 where X Cl, F or methoxy and Y H. 5. A compound of Claim 1 where R4 and R5 are both CF3. 6. A compound of Claim 1 where R6 H or methyl. 7. A compound of Claim 1 where R7 H. 8. A compound of Claim 1 whereR1 H or methyl R2 and R3 independenEMI49.2 where X C1, F or methoxy and Y H R4 and R5 are both CF3 R6 H or methyl and R7 H. 9. The compounds of claim 1 selected from 4t5 bis 4 luorophenyl dlrbis trifluoromethyl lH pyrrole 2 methanol,4 4 fluorophenyl 5 4 di methylaminophenyl , bis trifluoromethyl 1Hpyrrole 2 methanol, and 4,5 bis 4 fluorophenyl 1 methyl alpha , alpha bis trifluoromethyl 1H pyrrole 2 methanol. 10. A pharmaceutical composition consisting essentially of a suitable pharmaceutical carrier and an effective anti inflammatory amount of a compound of Claim 1 9. i1. A process for preparing a compound of Claim 1 which comprises a contacting a 2,3 diarylpyrrole of the formulaEMI50.1 with a polyfluorinated ketone or aldehyde or their various hydrates EMI50.2 where R1 R6 are as previous defined, in the absence or presence of a suitable acidic catalyst and optionally b contacting the product of step a with an alkylating or acylating agent and optionally, c converting the product of a or b into a pharmaceutically suitable salt. 12. A process for preparing a compound of Claim 1 which comprises a contacting a 1 4,5 diaryl lH pyr rol 2 yl polyfluoro l alkanone of the formula EMI51.1 with an organometallic agent R525 M Lit MgBr, or the like or a reducing agent to give compounds of Claim 1 where R1 R6 are as previously defined with R5 H or C C3 alkyl and R4 CF3, CF2H, CF2Cl CFCl2 or CF2CF3 and optionally b contacting the product of step a with an alkylating or acylating agent and optionally c converting the product of a or b into a pharmaceutically suitable salt. 13. A compound of the formulaEMI51.2 where R1 H or C1 C2 alkyl 1 12 R2 and R3 independently 3 pyridyl orEMI51.3 where X H, F, C1, Br, NO2, C1 C2 alkyl, C1 C2 alkoxy, di Cl C2 alkyl amino, or CH3S O n where n 0, 1, or 2. Y H, F or C1, with the proviso that when Y is F or Cl, then X is F or C1 R4 CF3, CF2H, CF2Cl, CFCl2, or CF2CF3 R6 H, C1 C6 alkyl, benzyl or benzyl substituted F, C1, Br, NO2 or CF3. 14. A compound of Claim 13 where R1 H or methyl. 15 AA compound of Claim 13 where R2 and R3 independently and Y H.EMI52.1 where X Cl, F or CH3O 16 A compound of Claim 13where R4 CF3 or CF2CF3. 17 . A compound of Claim 13where R6 H or methyl. 18 . A compound of Claim 13 where R H or methyl. R2 and R3 independently whereEMI52.2 X C1, F or CH3O and Y H. R4 CF3 or CF2CF3. R6 H or methyl. 19. The compounds of Claim 13 selected from 1 Z4,5 bis 4 methoxyphenyl 1H pyrrol 2 yl7 2,2,2, trifluoro 1 ethanone, l 14,5 bis 4 fluorophenyl 1H pyrrol 2 yl 2,2,2 trifluoro 1 ethanone, and bis 4 fluorophenyl 1H pyrrol 2 yl 2,2,3,3,3, penta fluoro 1 propanone. 20. A compound of Claim 13 whereinR1 H, methyl or ethyl R2 and R3 independently EMI53.1 where X H, F or CH30 with the proviso that R2 and R3 cannot both be phenyl R4 CF3, CF2C1, CFC12, CF2H or CF2CF3, and R6 H. 21.A compound of Claim 20 where R1 H or methyl. 22. A compound of Claim 20 where R, and R3 both EMI53.2 where X F or Cm 30. 23. A compound of Claim 20 where R4 CF3 or CF2CF3. 24. A compound of Claim 20 where R1 H or methyl R2 and R3 both EMI53.3 where X F or CH3O R4 CF3 or CF2CF3 25. The compound of Claim 20 which is 1 4 methoxyphenyl 1H Pyrro1 2 yl 2,2 3,3,3 pentafluoro 1 propanone. 26 . A pharmaceutical composition consisting essentially of a suitable pharmaceutical carrier and an antiinflammatory amount of a compound of Claim 20 25. 27. A pharmaceutical composition consisting essentially of a suitable pharmaceutical carrier and an anti inflammatory amount of the last, compound of Claim 19. 28. A process of furming a compound ofClaim 13 which comprises a contacting in an inert solventEMI54.1 andEMI54.2 where R1, R2, R3, R4 andR6 are as defined in Claim 36 and optionally b when R6 H, contacting the product of a with a base and an alkylating or benzylating agent.

## Description
TitleAnti inflammatory 4, 5 Diaryl a polyfluoroalkyl lH pyrrole 2 methanols and 1 4, 5 diaryl lH pyrrol 2 yl polyfluoroalkanones Background of the Invention This invention relates to antiinflammatory pyrroles. J. Szmuszkovicz et al., J. Med. Chem., 9527 1966 describe the synthesis and biological activity of a clinically tested antiinflammatory agent of the formulaEMI1.1 Yoshida,et al., U.S. Patent 3,709,906 discloses 5 alkyl 2,3 diphenylpyrrole derivatives which are useful as antiinflammatory agents. D. C. England, U.S. Patent 3,197,480 includes disclosure of the compound EMI1.2 Pharmaceutical use is not disclosed. A number of references, including W. D. Cooper,J. Org. Chem., 23, 1382 1958 P. E. Sonnet,J. Med. Chem., 15, 97 1972 and R. K. Mackie, et al., J. Fluorine Chem., 10 437 1977 describe the synthesis of 2 pyrrolyltrifluoromethyl ketone.EMI1.3 S. Clementi and G. Marino, J. Chem. Soc.,Perkins Trans., 2, 71 1972 describe the trifluoroacetylation of 2 alkyl pyrroles to give the corresponding trifluoromethyl ketones.EMI2.1 B. A. Trofimov,et al., Izv. Akad, Nauk. SSSR,Ser. Khim., 2639 1977 C.A., 88,74258d describe the synthesis of some l vinyl 4,5 alkylsubstituted pyrrole trifluoromethyl ketones.EMI2.2 There is a continuing need for safe and effective antiinflammatory agents. Inflammation is a disease process characterized by redness, fever, swelling, and pain. Arthritis, in its various forms, is the most prevalent, chronic, and severe of the inflammatory diseases. Traumatic injury and infection also involve inflammation, and antiinflammatory drugs are often used in their treatment.The usefulness of most commercial antiinflammatories is limited because of toxicity and adverse sideeffects. Many produce gastric irritation and other effects, such as changes in blood cells and central nervous system. Adreno cortical steroids produce gastric irritation and suppresion of normal adrenal function. In addition to anti.inflammatory properties, compounds within the scope of this invention have demonstrated analgesic activity in a test procedure. This additional property is desirable in treatment of arthritis or related diseases however, the compounds which exhibit this property can be employed solely to alleviate pain. Also, the present invention is directed to intermediates useful in preparation of antiinflammatory compounds. Summary of the Invention This invention relates to compounds of formula I, pharmaceutical compositions containing them, and methods of use of these compounds to treat arthritis and or alleviate pain in mammals.EMI3.1 wherein R H or C1 C2 alkyl R2 and R3 independently 3 pyridyl or whereEMI3.2 X H, F, C1, Br, NO2, C1 C2 alkyl, C1 C2 alkoxy, di C1 C2 alkyl .amino or CH3S O n where n 0, 1 or 2 and Y H, F or C1 with the proviso that when Y is F or C1, then X is F or Cl R4 and R5 independently H, CF3, CF2H, CFC12, CF2C1, CF2CF3 or C1 C3 alkyl with the proviso that no more than one ofR4 or R5 can be selected from the group consisting of H and C1 C3 alkyl and the further proviso that no more than one of R4 or R5 can be CF2CF3 or R4 and R5 taken together CF2CF2CFZ , where Z F, C1 or Br R6 H C1 C6 alkyl benzyl or benzyl substituted with F, C1, Br, NO2 or CF3 R7 H C1 C6 alkyl benzyl benzyl substituted with F, Cl, Br, NO2, CF3, C1 C2 alkyl,or C1 C2 alkoxy EMI4.1 benzoyl or benzoyl substituted with F, C1, Br, NO2, CF3, C1 C2 alkyl,or C1 C2 alkoxy or COOR8 R8 C1 C4 alkyl phenyl phenyl substituted with F, C1, Br, NO2, CF3, C1 C2 alkyl, or C1 C2 alkoxy benzyl or benzyl substituted with F, C1, Br, NO2, CF3, C1 C2 alkyl or C1 C2 alkoxy with the proviso that R6 cannot be H when R7 is alkanoyl, benzoyl or substituted benzoyl, or COOR8 or a pharmaceutically suitable acid addition salt where R2 or R3 is 3 pyridyl or X is dialkylamino or a pharmaceutically suitable metal salt when R7 is H. Also, the present invention is directed to novel intermediates of Formula II useful in preparation of the antiinflammatory compounds ofFormula I.EMI5.1 where R1 H or C1 C2 alkyl R2 and R3 independently 3 pyridyl orEMI5.2 where X H, F, C1, Br, NO2, C1 C2 alkyl, C1 C2 alkoxy, di C1 C2 alkyl amino, or CH3S O n where n 0, 1, or 2 Y H, F or C1 with the proviso that when Y is F or C1, then X is F or C1 CF3, CF2H, CF2Cl, CFC12, or CF2CF3 4 CF2 R6 H, C1 C6 alkyl, benzyl or benzyl substituted by F, C1, Br, NO2 or CF3. Also, this invention relates to a subclass of the compounds of formula II useful in treatment of inflammation, pharmaceutical compositions containing this subclass of compounds and methods of use of this subclass to treat arthritis.The subclass of formula IIa is where the substituents are EMI6.1 R1 H, methyl or ethylR2 and R3 independently EMI6.2 where X H, F or CH30 with the proviso that R2 and R3 cannot both be phenyl and R4 CF3, CF2C1J CFCl2, CF7H or CF2CF3. Preferred Formula I compounds for utility consideration or ease of synthesis are those in which, independently a R1 H or methyl or b R2 and R3 independently EMI6.3 and where X C1, F or methoxy and Y H or c R4 and R5 CF3 or d R6 H or methyl or e R7 H. Specifically preferred for the same reasons are a 4,5 bis 4 fluorophenyl a,a bis trifluoromethyl lH pyrrole 2 methanol b 4 4 fluorophenyl 5 4 dimethylaminophenyl a, a bis trifluoromethyl lH pyrrole 2 methanol and c 4,5 bis 4 fluorophenyl l methyl a,a bis trifluoromethyl 1H pyrrole 2 methanol. Preferred Formula II compounds for utility consideration ot ease of synthesis are those in which, independently ca R1 H or methyl or b R2 and R3 independently whereEMI7.1 X C1, F or CH3O and Y H or c R41 CF3 or CF2CF3 or d R6 H or methyl. Specifically preferred for the sarge reasons are a 1 4,5 bis 4 methoxyphenyl 1H pyrrol 2 yl 2,2,2 trifluoro 1 ethanone b 1 4,5 bis 4 fluorophenyl lH pyrrol 2 yl 2,2,2 trifluoro 1 ethanone and c 1 4,5 bis 4 f luorophenyl 1H pyrrol 2 yll 2,2,3,3,3 pentafluoro 1 propanone. Preferred constituents for antiinflammatory compounds of Formula IIa are where, independently a R, H or methyl or b R2 and R3 both EMI7.2 where X F or CH30 or c R41 2 or CF2CF3. The antiinflammatories are preferred due to utility considerations or due to ease of synthesis. Preferred antiinflammatory compounds are a 1 4,5 bis 4 methoxyphenyl 1H pyrrol 2 yl 2,2,3,3,3 pentafluoro l propanone and b 1 4,5 bis 4 fluorophenyl 1H pyrrol 2 yl 2,2,3,3,3 pentafluoro l propanone. Synthesis The compounds of Formula I can be prepared from 2,3 diarylpyrroles. One method of preparation of 2,3 diarylpyrroles involves reaction of substituted a aminodeoxybenzoins with acetylene diesters, followed by hydrolysis and decarboxylation according to the procedure used byJ. Szmuszkovicz,et al., J. Med. Chem., 9, 527 1966 and by U.S. Patent 3,462,451, the disclosures of which are hereby incorporated by reference, for the synthesis of 2,3 bis 4 methoxyphenyl pyrrole. Scheme I . Scheme IEMI8.1 Another method of preparation of 2,3 diarylpyrroles is a modification of the procedure of T. Severin and H.Poehlmann, Chem. Ber., 110, 491 1977 , hereby incorporated by reference, which described the preparation of monoaryl pyrroles. By using substituted desoxybenzoins, the desired 2,3 diarylpyrroles are formed. Scheme II . Sc .eme EMI8.2 Preparation of 2,3 diaryl 4 alkylpyrroles can be accomplished by several methods. First, 4,5 diarylpyrrole 3 carboxylate esters, prepared, for instance, by the method of A. M. van Leusen, et al., Tet. Letters, 5337 1972 can be reduced to the 2,3 diaryl 4 methylpyrroles by lithium aluminum hydride following the general procedure of R. L. Hinman and S. Theodoropulos, J. Org. Chem., 28, 3052 1963 , hereby incorporated by reference.EMI9.1 Secondly, 2,3 diaryl 4 alkylpyrroles can be prepared by the general procedure of N. Engel andW. Steglich, Angew. Chem. Int. Ed. Engl., 17, 676 1978 , hereby incorporated by reference, fromN allylcarboxamides.EMI9.2 These methods of preparation of 2,3 diarylpyrroles are described in European Patent 5,156 U.S. ApplicationSerial No. 10,259, filed February 8, 1979 . l Alkyl or benzyl 2,3 diarylpyrroles can be prepared from the corresponding 2,3 diarylpyrroles by treatment with a strong base, such as sodium hydride, followed by alkylation using an alkyl or benzyl halide or other suitable alkylating reagent, such as methyl iodide L signifies an appropriate leaving group, such as halide or sulfonate .EMI10.1 Introduction of the a polyfluoroalkylmethanol group can be accomplished in several ways first, by reaction of a 2,3 diarylpyrrole with a fluorinated ketone or aldehyde or their various hydrates.EMI10.2 This reaction can be conducted in a sealed pressure reactor at temperature from ambient to 2000C.It can also be conducted in a refluxing solvent such as toluene, in a flask with the fluorinated ketone or aldehyde, such as hexafluoroacetone monohydrate, sesquihydrate or trihydrate or trifluoroacetaldehyde hydrate. Acidic catalysts such as All3, BF3, p toluenesulfonic acid or trifluoroacetic acid can be used but are not required. Reaction times are usually 4 24 hours. The use of hexafluoroacetone trihydrate in ref fluxing toluene without catalyst is preferred. Secondly, addition of Grignard reagents to 1 4, 5 diaryl 1H pyrrol 2 yl polyfluoro l alkanones, can give compounds of Formula I. This reaction is particularly useful when R5 isC1 C3 alkyl.EMI11.1 1 4, 5 Diaryl lH pyrrol 2 yl polyfluoro l alkanones can be prepared from the corresponding 2,3 diarylpyrroles with R6 H, alkyl, benzyl or substituted benzyl , by treatment with a polyfluorinated acid anhydride in the absence or presence of a base, such as N,N dimethylaniline, The reaction can be run in any solvent which is inert to the reactants, at temperatures from 780C to the boiling point of the solvent, preferably at OOC. EMI11.2 R6 H, alkyl, benzyl or substituted benzyl Alternatively, the R6 group R6 r H can be introduced after the polyfluQroacyl group has been introduced into compounds with R6 H.The 1 4,5 diaryl 1H pyrrol 2 yl polyfluoro 1 alkanone with R6 H is contacted with a strong base, such as sodium hydride, followed by alkylation using an alkyl or benzyl halide or other suitable alkylating reagent, e.g., methyl iodide L signifies an appropriate leaving group, such as halide or sulfonate .EMI12.1 Thirdly, reaction of 1 4,5 diaryl lH pyrrol 2 yl polyfluoro 1 alkanones with reducing agents, such as NaBH4 or the like, can give compounds ofFormula I where R5 H.EMI12.2 Fourthly, compounds of Formula I withR6 and or R7 H can be prepared by alkylation of the corresponding compounds with R6 and or R7 H. Alkylation can occur on either or both the NH or OH, depending on the conditions of the reaction. Often mixtures of alk.ylated products are obtained. These alkylations can be conducted in the presence of a base, such as potassium carbonate, pyridine, triethylamine, potassiumt butoxide, sodium hydride or the like. L signifies an appropriate leaving group . EMI13.1 Fifthly, compounds of Formula I withR7 alkanoyl, benzoyl or substituted benzoyl, or COOR8 can be prepared from the corresponding compound with R7 H by treatment with a base followed by reaction with an acid chloride, or alternatively, by direct reaction with an acid anhydride.EMI13.2 Pharmaceutically suitable salts of the compounds of formula I can be of two types. First, when one or both aryl groups is a dialkylaminophenyl or a 3 pyridyl group, acid addition salts can be prepared by treatment of the free base I with the appropriate acid. Second, pharmaceutically suitable metal salts forming the salt of the acidic OH can be prepared by treatment of compounds of the formula I .with R7 H with strong bases such as hydroxides, alkoxies, or the like. In the following examples, all parts are by weight and temperatures are in degrees centigrade unless otherwise specified. Preparation 1 2,3 Diphenylpyrrole Method A A. Dimethyl 4,5 diphenylpyrrole 2,3 dicarboxylateIn a 2 1 RB 3 neck flask with mechanical stirrer and condenser was placed 76.7 g o.31 mole of desyl amine hydrochloride Pschorr et al, Chem.Ber., 35, 2740 1902 , 750 ml methanol, 88 g o.62 mole dimethyl acetylenedicarboxylate freshly distilled and 61 g o.75 mole anhydrous sodium acetate. The mixture was heated at reflux for two hours. Then another 44 g o.31 mole of dimethyl acetylendicarboxylate was added, and heating continued another two hours. While the reaction mixture was still at reflux, concentrated hydrochloric acid bow60 ml, to pHrv2 was added dropwise. The mixture was heated at reflux another hour, then poured into 2 1 water containing 2oo ml 10 sodium bicarbonate solution. With stirring, more sodium bicarbonate was added until the solution was neutral.The gummy solid which precipitated was collected and washed with water. Trituration of this gummy material with , Soo ml of 50 aqueous ethanol gave a tan powdery solid, which was recrystallized fromv85 aqueous ethanol to give 65.5 g 63 of white crystals, m.p. 191 20 Lit. m.p. 185 7 J.B. Hendrickson et al,J.Am.Chem. Soc., 86, 107 1964 . B. 4,5 Diphenylpyrrole 2,3 dicarboxylic Acid To a mixture of 57.5 g o.172 mole of dimethyl4,5 diphenylpyrrole 2,3 dicarboxylate in 350 ml methanol was added a solution of 71 g 1.78 mole of sodium hydroxide in 350 ml water. The mixture was heated at reflux for two hours, then cooled in an ice bath. The insoluble white crystals were collected and washed with cold methanol to give the bis sodium salt of the product. The still damp solid was dissolved in 1 1 cold. water and acidified with conc. hydrochloric acid. The precipitated product was collected by filtration, washed with water containing H1 hydrochloric acid, then air dried and finally dried in a vacuum oven at 1000 to give 50.0 g 95 of white solid, m.p. 216 2130 dec., depends on heating rate .C. 2,3 Diphenylpyrrole Method A A mixture of 20 g 0.065 mole of 4,5 diphenylpyrrole 2,3 dicarboxylic acid in 80 ml quinoline was heated at reflux in an oil bath bath 2300 until gas evolution stopped approx. one half hour . The reaction mixture was cooled and most of the quinoline was removed by distillation bp 58 o.2 mm . The partially crystalline residue was chromatographed on 300 g SilicAR CC 7, eluting with toluene to give 12 g 86 of faintly pink 2,3 diphenylpyrrole which could be further purified by recrystallization from ethanol water or by sublimation 5125 i o.2 mm to give white solid, m.p. 132 3 . Anal.Calcd. for C16H13N C, 87.64 H, 5.98 N, 6.39 Found C, 87.99 H 5.86 N, 6.50. Preparation 2 2,3 Diphenylpyrrole Method B A. Glyoxal mono dimethylhydrazone was prepared by the procedure of T. Severin and H. Poehlmann, Chem.Ber., 110, 491 1977 to give 36.1 g 80 of pale yellow liquid, bp 1090 22 mm lit. bp 900 16 mm .B. 4 Dimethylhydrazono 1,2 diphenyl 2 buten 1 one To a mixture of 19.6 g o.1 mole desoxybenzoin and 10 g 0.1 mole of glyoxal mono dimethylhydrazone in 100 ml ethanol was added dropwise a solution of sodium ethoxide prepared by dissolving 2.3 g 0.1 mole sodium metal in 100 ml ethanol. The mixture was heated at reflux for one half hour. TLC 90 10, toluene ethyl acetate showed a small amount of starting desoxybenzoin, so 2.0 g 0.02 mole of additional glyoxal mono dimethylhydrazone was added. Heating was continued another two hours. TLC at this time showed no starting material, and two clean close yellow product spots isomers . The mixture was poured into 1 1 ice water then extracted with methylene chloride.The organic extracts were dried and concentrated on a rotary evaportor to give 28.7 g 100 of yellow oil. The NMR showed the presence of two majorN CH3 2 containing materials product isomers . The crude oil crystallized from isopropanol to give one pure isomer of product, 13.4 g 48 , pale yellow crystals, m.p. 131 20. Anal. Calcd. for C18H18N2O C, 77.67 H, 6.52 N, 10.06. Found C, 77.44 H, 6.46 N, 10.17. C. 2,3 Diphenylpyrrole Method B A mixture of 3.1 g 0.011 mole of 4 dimethyl hydrazone 1 ,2 diphenyl 2 buten 1 one, 11.2 g 0.064 mole sodium hydrosulfide in 75 ml ethanol and 37.5 ml water was heated at reflux for three hours. The mixture was cooled and poured into 300 ml ice water.The white crystalline produce was collected, washed with water and air dried to give 1.9 g 79 , m.p. 130 1 , identical to product obtained via the decarboxylation, Method A. Preparation 3 2, 3 Diphenyl 4 methylpyrrole A. Ethyl 4,5 diphenylpyrrole 3 carboxylate was prepared by a procedure similar to that used by A.M.van Leusen et al, Tet.Letters, 5337 1972 for the preparation of the methyl ester. The ethyl ester was obtained as a white solid, m.p. 207 208.5 methyl cyclohexane toluene . Anal. Calcd. for C19H17NO2 C, 78.33 H, 5.88 N, 4.81 Found C, 77.92 H, 5.87 77.90 5.88N, 4.60 4.62.B. 2, 3 Diphenyl 4 methylpyrrole To a stirred slurry of 0.76 g 2O mmoles of lithium aluminum hydride in 25 ml THF was added dropwise a solution of 0.58 g 2 mmoles of ethyl 4,5 diphenylpyrrole 3 carboxylate in 5 ml THF. The mixture was heated at reflux overnight. After cooling, 0.8 ml water, 2.4 ml 15 sodium hydroxide solution and 0.8 ml water were added dropwise. The solids were removed by filtration and the filtrate concentrated by rotary evaporation. The crystalline residue was purified by chromatography on 50 g Silic AR CC 7 eluting with hexane toluene 90 10 to give 0.25 g of product, m.p. 163 4 . Anal. Calcd. for C17H15N C, 87.51 H, 6.48 N, 6.00 Found C,87.77 H, 6.60 N, 5.89. Preparation 4 2,3 Bis 4 fluorophenyl 4 methyl 1H pyrroleA. 3 4 Fluorophenyl 2 methyl 2 propen 1 al To a solution of 124 g 1 mole of 4 fluorobenzaldehyde and 8 g 0.143 mole of potassium hydroxide in 500 ml ethanol at room temperature was added dropwise a solution of 52.2 g 0.9 mole of propionaldehyde in 100 ml ethanol. After stirring for 0.5 hour, the mixture was acidified with acetic acid and concentrated by rotary evaporation. The residue was partitioned between methylene chloride and water. The aqueous layer was extracted three times with additional methylene chloride. The combined organic layers were dried and concentrated.Distil lation through a 12 inch vacuum jacketed column gave 113.5 g 77 of pale yellow low melting crystal line product, b.p. 70 720C 0.4 0.7 mm . Anal. Calcd. for C10H9FO C, 73.16 H,. 5.53 Found C, 72.89, 72.72 H, 5.66, 5.46.B. 3 4 Fluorophenyl 2 methyl 2 propen 1 ol To a solution of 113 g 0.69 mole of 3 4 fluor o phenyl 2 methyl 2 propen l al in 800 ml ethanol at 100C was added in portions 13.1 g 0.345 mole of sodium borohydride. After the addition was complete, the reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature overnight. The mixture was cooled i an ice bath while 350 ml of lN hydrochloric acid was added dropwise to give a final pH of . The mixture was dIluted with 500 ml water and extracted three times with methylene chloride.The organic extracts were dried and concentrated and the residue distilled to give 56.1 g 49 of colorless liquid, b.p. 68 700C 0.15 mm . Anal. Calcd. for CloHllFO C, 72.27 H, 6.67 Found C, 72.30, 72.38 H,6.6l, 6.62. C. l Chloro 3 4 fluorophenyl 2 methyl 2 cronene To a solution of 53.6 g 0.32 mole of 3 4 fluorophenyl 2 methyl 2 propen l ol in 100 ml methylene chloride was added dropwise a solution of 57.1 g 0.48 mole of thionyl chloride in l00 ml methylene chloride. The reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 2 hours, then concentrated by rotary evaporation. The product was checked by NMR, then used crude in the reaction with ammonia. D. 3 4 Fluorophenyl 2 methyl 2 propen l amine A quantity of 59.1 g 0.32 mole of l chloro 3 4 fluorophenyl 2 methyl 2 propene and 500 ml ethanol was loaded in a pressure vessel. The vessel was cool evacuated and 100 g of ammonia was added. The mixture was heated at 95 for 3 hours with shaking. The vessel was cooled, vented and the contents rinsed out with ethanol. The mixture was concentrated by rotary evaporation. The residue was diluted with 1.5 1 water and acidified with concentrated hydro chloric acid. This mixture was filtered to remove some insoluble solid undissolved amine hydrochloride . The aaueous filtrate was extracted with ether to remove any non basic impurities. The aqueous layer was combined with the insoluble solid and made basic with 5a sodium hydroxide solution. This was then extracted with ether and the ether extracts were dried and concentrated. Distillation of the rescue gave 22.8 g 438 of colorless licuid, b.p. 570C 0.2 mum . Anal. Calcd. for CloHl2FN C, 72.70 H, 7.32 N, 8.48 Found C, 72.67, 72.59 H, 7.48, 7.53 N, 8.31.E. 4 FluoroZ 3 4 fluorophenyl 2 methyl 2 propenyl 1 benzamide To a vigorously stirred mixture of 19.8 g 0.12 mole of 3 4 fluorophenyl 2 methyl 2propen l amine and 30.2 g 0.36 mole of sodium bicarbonate in 500 ml water at 50C was added dropwise 22.2 g 0.14 mole of 4 fluorobenzoyl chloride.The mixture was stirred another 3 hours at 50C then at room temperature overnight. The white solid which had formed was collected, washed with saturated sodium bicarbonate solution, then with water, then with hexane, then air dried to give 33.4 g 97 of product, m.p. 107 1090C. Anal. Calcd. for C17H15F2NO C, 7i.07 H, 5.26 N, 4.88 Found C, 70.85 H, 5.48 N, 4.70.F. 2,3 Bis 4 fluorothenyl 4 methyl lH yrrole Using the general procedure of N. Engel andW. Steglich, Angew. Chem. Int. Ed. Eel., 17, 676 1978 , to a slurry at room temperature of 28.7 g 0.1 mole of 4 fluoro N 3 4 fluorophenyl 2 methyl 2 propenyllbenzamide in 100 ml toluene containing 1 mlDMF, stirred under nitrogen, with a dry ice condenser attached, was added dropwise a solution of 39.6 g 28.3 ml, 0.4 mole of phosgene in 100 ml toluene.The mixture was warmed slightly with a heat gun, then stirred at room temperature overnight. The solution was concentrated by rotary evaporation to give a yellow oil. This was dissolved in 100 ml dry THF small amount of insoluble solid removed by decanting the solution and the solution was added dropwise to a cool 15 solution of 33.5 g 0.3 mole of potassium t butoxide in 150 ml DMSO. The dark purple solution was stirred at rJ200C for 1 hour, then was poured into 1 liter ice water.This was extracted with ether and the ether layers backwashed with water. Ee ether layer was dried and concentrated and the residue was chromatographed on 900 g of silica gel, eluting with hexane containing 10 40 toluene, to give, after recrystallization from methyl cyclohexane, 10.8 g 40 of white product, m.p. 126 70C. Anal. Calcd. for C17H13F2N C, 75.82 H, 4.87 N, 5.20 Found C, 75.87 H, 4.85 N, 5.13. Other 2,3 diarylpyrroles prepared by these procedures are given in Table I. Table I 2,3 DiarylpyrrolesEMI22.1 Preparation R2 R3 R1 m.p. C 5 4 C1C6H4 4 C1C6H4 H 124 127 6 4 FC6H4 4 FC6H4 H 119.5 120.5 7 C6H5 3,4 diClC H H 112 113 8 4 FC6H4 4 BrC6H4 H 129 130 9 C6H5 3 pyridyl H 190 192 10 4 CH3OC6H4 4 CH3OC6H4 H oil 11 4 CH3C6E4 4 CH3C6R4 H 128 129 12 4 FC6H4 4 CH3 2NC6H4 H 200 201 13 4 FC6H4 3 pyridyl H 173 174 14 4 FC6H4 4 CH35C6 4 H 164 165 15 4 FC6H4 4 CH3SO2C6H4 H 268 270 Example 1 4,5 Bis 4 chlorophenyl c cl bis trifluoromethyl lH pyrrole 2 methanol A mixture of 2.9 g 0.01 mole of 2,3 bis 4 chlorophenyl lH pyrrole and 2.5 g 0.011 mole of hexafluoroacetone trihydrate in 50 ml toluene was heated at reflux overnight. The mixture was concentrated on a rotary evaporation and the solid residue was chromatographed on 200 g silica gel eluting with toluene , then recrystallized from hexane to give 3.8 g of product, m.p. 144 1450C. Anal. Calcd. for C19H11Cl2F6NO C, 50.24 H, 2.44 N, 3.08 Found C, 50.05 H, 2.65 N, 2.84. Other 4,5 diaryl a,a bis trifluoromethyl lH pyrrole 2 methanols that can be prepared by this procedure are given in Table II. Table II 4,5 Diaryl a,a bis trifluoromethyl lH pyrrole 2 methanolsEMI24.1 Example R2 R3 R1 mp cc 2 C6H5 C6H5 H 96 97 3 4 FC6H4 4 FC6H4 H 112 113 4 C6H5 3,4 diC1C6H3 H 119 120 5 4 FC6H4 4 BrC 6H4 H 129 130 6 4 FC6H4 4 FC6H4 CH3 154 155.5 7 C 6H5 3 pyridyl H 201 203 HC1 salt m.p. 228 230 dec. 8 4 CH3OC6H4 4 CH3OC6H4 H 130 131 9 4 CH3C6H4 4 CH3C6H4 H 109 109.5 10 4 FC6H4 4 CH3 2NC6H4 H 136 137 HCL salt m.p. 225 dec. 11 4 FC6H4 3 pyridyl H 227 229 12 4 FC6H4 CH3SC6H4 H 167 168 13 4 FC6H4 4 CH3SO2C6H4 H 257 258 14 4 C2H5C6H4 4 C2H5C6E4 C2H5 15 4 FC6H4 4 NO2C6H4 H Following the procedure given in Example 1 with the appropriate 2,3 diarylpyrrole and polyfluorinated ketone, the following 4,5 diaryl alpha , alpha bis polyfluoromethyl 1H pyrrole 2 methanols can be prepared Table III . Table III 4,5 Diaryl alpha , alpha bis polyfluoromethyl lH pyrrole 2 methanolsEMI25.1 Example R2 R3 R4 R5 m.p. C 16 4 FC6H4 4 FC6H4 CF2CF2CF2 93 94 17 4 FC6H4 4 FC6H4 CF2C1 CF2C1 124 125 18 4 FC6H4 4 FC6H4 CF2H v2 3 113 115 19 4 FC6H4 4 FC6H4 CF2C1 CF3 107 108 20 4 FC6H4 4 FC6H4 CF2CF2CFCl 114 115 21 4 FC6H4 4 FC6H4 CF2CF2CFBr 121 122 22 4 FC6H4 4 FC6H4 CF2C1 CFCl2 109 110 23 4 C2H5OC6H4 4 C2H5OC6H4 CF2H CF H 24 4 C1C6H4 4 C1C6H4 CF2C1 CF2C1 25 4 FC6H4 4 CH3 S O2C6H4 CF2H CF3 26 4 C2H5 2NC6H4 4 FC6H.4 CF2H CF2C1 27 3 F, 4 ClC6H3 4 CH3OC6H.4 CF2Cl CF3 Example 28 4,5 Bis 4 fluorophenyl 1 methyl ,a bis tri fluorom.ethyl lH pyrrole 2 methanol A. 2,3 Sis 4 fluorophenyl 1 methyl lH pyrrole To a mixture of 1.5 g 0.038 mole of 60 sodium hydride dispersion and 100 ml DMSO was added dropwise a solution of 5.1 g 0,02 mole of 2,3 bis 4 fluorophenyl lH pyrrole in 25 mlDMSO. After the mixture was stirred one hour at room temperature, 5.6 g Q.04 mole . of methyl iodide was added dropwise, The mixture was stirred at room temperature overnight, then poured into water and extracted with ether. The ether extracts were backwashed with water three times, then dried and concentrated.The crude solid was recrystallized from hexane to give 4.3 g of product, m.p. 129 129.50.Anal. Calcd for C17Hl3F2N C, 75.82 H, 4.87 N, 5.20. Found C, 75.89, 75.78 H, 4.98, 4.97 N, 5.18, 5.10.B. 4,5 tis 4 fluorophenyl 1 methyl a,a bis trifluoromethyl lH pyrrole 2 methanol A mixture of 4.0 g 0.015 mole of 2, 3 bis 4 fluorophenyl l methyl lH pyrrole and 3.7 g 0.017 mole of hexafluoroacetone trihydrate in 75 ml toluene was heated at reflux overnight.Another 3.7g of hexafluoroacetone trihydrate was added and the mixture was heated at reflux overnight again. An additional 2.0 g of hexafluoroacetone trihydrate was added and the mixture was heated at reflux another eight hours. The mixture was washed twice with water, then the organic layer was dried and concentrated. The crude product was purified by chromatography on silica gel, eluting with hexane toluene mixtures to give, after recrystallization from hexane, 4.8 g of product, m.p. 130 1310. Anal. Calcd. for C20H13F8NO C, 55.18 H, 3.01 N, 3.22. Found C, 55.15, 55.24 H, 3.03, 3.00 N, 3.29, 3.23. Example 29 4,5 BisX4 fluorophenyl a trifluoromethyl lH pyrrole 2 methanol A mixture of 2.55 g 0.01 mole of 2, 3 bis 4 fluorophenyl 1H pyrrole and 1.3 g 0.011 mole of trifluoroacetaldehyde hydrate in 75 ml toluene was heated at reflux for 3.5 hours.The mixture was concentrated on a rotary evaporator.The residue was purified by chromatography on silica gel to give 1.9 g of product, m.p. 121 1220. Anal. Calcd. for C18H12F5NO C, 61.20 H, 3.42 N, 3.96. Found C, 61.24 H, 3.39 N, 4.12. Example 30 4, 5 Bis 4 methoxyphenyl a trifluoromethyl 1H pyrrole 2 methanol A. 1 4,5 Bis 4 methoxyphenyl 1H pyrrol 2 y13 2,2, 2 trifluoro 1 ethanone To a stirred solution of 2.5 g trifluoroacetic anhydride in 30 ml ether at O was added dropwise a solution of 2.8 g 0.01 mole of 2,3 bis 4 methoxyphenyl lH pyrrole and 1.5 g of N,Ndimethyl aniline in 20 ml ether. The mixture was stirred one hour at O , then diluted with more ether and washed with water, 1N hydrochloric acid, then water again. The organic layer was dried and concentrated.The residue was purified by chromatography on silica gel, eluting with toluene, to give, after recrystallization from methylcyclohexane, 2.2 g of product, m.p. 185 186.50. Anal. Calcd. for C20H16FNO3 C, 64.00 H, 4.30 N, 3.73. Found C, 64.35, 64.03 H, 4.41, 4.22 N, 3.61, 3.70.B. 4,5 3is 4 methoxyphenyl a trif1uoromethyl lH pyrrole 2 methanol To a stirred mixtureç of 1.9 g 0.005 mole of 1 4,5 bis 4 methoxyphenyl 1H pyrrol 2 yl 2,2,2 trifluoro l ethanone and 25 ml ethanol at O was added 0.4 g 0.01 mole of sodium borohydride all at once. The mixture was stirred at O 0.5 hour, then at room temperature 1 hour. The mixture was chilled in an ice bath and 40 ml of 1N hydrochloric acid was added dropwise. The mixture was poured into water and extracted with methylene chloride. The organic layers were dried and concentrated. The crude solid was triturated with methylcyclohexane and collected to give 1.6 g of product, m.p. 84 860. Mass Spectrum Calcd. for C20H18F3NO3 377.1238. Found 377.1243 Example 31 4 ,5 Bis 4 methoxyphenyl a methyl a trifluoro methyl lH pyrrole 2 methanol A solution of 3.8 g 0.01 mole of 1 4, 5 bis 4 methoxyphenyl 1H pyrrol 2 ylj 2,2,2 trifluoro l ethanone in 20 ml of THF was added dropwise to the Grignard reagent formed from 0.6 g 0.025 mole of magnesium turnings and 3.6 g 0.025 mole of methyl iodide in 30 ml ether.The mixture was stirred overnight at room temperature.Then 20 ml of saturated aqueous ammonium chloride was added dropwise. The mixture was transferred to a separatory funnel with 100 ml of 1N hydrochloric acid. The aqueous mixture was extracted with ether.The ether extracts were dried and concentrated and the residue was purified first by elution chromatography toluene ethyl acetate 90 10 , then by preparative HPLC to give 1.6 g of product, m.p. 111 112 . Anal. Calcd. for C21H20F3NO3 C, 64.44 H, 5.15 N, 3.58. Found C, 64.76, 64.77, H, 5.16, 5.17 N, 3.48, 3.39. Example 32 2,3 Bis 4 fluorophenyl 1 methyl 5 2,2,2 tri fluoro l methoxy l trifluoromethyl ethyl lH pyrrole A mixture of 2.1 g 0.005 mole of 4,5 bis 4 fluorophenyl , bis trifluoromethyl lH pyrrole 2 methanol, 1.4 g anhydrous potassium carbonate and 0.9 g 0.006 mole of methyl iodide in 25 ml DMF was stirred at room temperature overnightAnother 1.4 g of potassium carbonate and 0.3 g of methyl iodide was added and stirring was continued another two hours. The mixture was poured into water and extracted with ether. The ether layers were backwashed with water three times, then dried and concentrated.The residue was purified by chromatography on silica gel, eluting with hexane toluene 90 10 to give 1.7 g of the O,N dimethylated product, m.p. 133 134 from ethanol water . The infrared and nmr spectrum were consistent with the structure.Anal. Calcd. for C21Hl5F8NO C, 56.13 H, 3.36 N, 3.12. Found C, 56.01, 56.17 H, 3.49, 3.82 N, 3.20, 3.10. Eluted with toluene was the O methylated product, 2,3 bis 4 fluorophenyl 5 2,2,2 tri fluoro l methoxy l trifluoromethyl ethyl lH pyrrole, 0.12 g, mip. 108 1100 from ethanol water .The infrared and nmr spectra were consistent with the structure. Anal. Calcd. for r FT P NO C, 55.18 H, 3.01 N, 3.22. Found C, 55.61, 55.81 H, 3.07, 3.06 N, 3.19, 3.19. Example 33 2,3 Bis 4 fluorophenyl 5 2,2,2 trifluoro 1 phenyl methoxy 1 trifluoromethyl ethyl lH pyrrole Prepared by a procedure similar to that above, employing a bromotoluene in place of methyl iodide, there was obtained the O benzylated product, named above, obtained as an oil after purification by preparative HPLC.Mass Spectrum Calcd for C26EI17F8NO 511.1181. Found 511.1192. Example 34 4,5 Bis 4 fluorophenyl l methyl a,a bis trifluoro methyl .lH pyrrole 2 methanol, Acetate A mixture of 2.2 g 5 mmoles of 4,5 bis 4 fluorophenyl 1 methyl a, ct bis trifluoromethyl lH pyrrole 2 methanol and 50 ml of acetic anhydride was heated at reflux for 4 hours. The mixture was cooled and concentrated by rotary evaporation under reduced pressure. The residue was purified by preparative HPLC on silica gel, eluting with hexane toluene 50 50 . The 1.2 g of product so obtained was combined with 0.6 g of product from another preparation and recrystallized from hexane to give 1.0 g of white crystalline product, m.p. 102 103 . Anal. Calcd. for C22H15F8NO2 C, 55.36 H, 3.17 N, 2.93. Found C, 55.48 H, 3.29 N, 2.92. Example 35 4,5 Bis 4 fluorophenyl 1 methyl a,a bis trifluoro methyl 1H pyrrole 2 methanol, Benzoate A quantity of 0.85 g 7.5 mmoles of potassium t butoxide was added to a stirred solution of 2.2 g 5 mmoles of 4,5 bis 4 fluorophenyl l methyl cr,cr bis trifluoromethyl lH pyrrole 2 methanol in 50 ml glyme at O . After the mixture was stirred for 15 minutes, 1.1 g 7.5 mmoles of benzoyl chloride in 25 ml of glyme was added dropwise. The mixture was stirred at O for three hours1 then at room temperature for one hour. The mixture was poured into water and extracted with ether. The ether extracts were dried and concentrated to give the crude product as a solid. This was purified by preparative HPLC on silica gel, eluting with 50 50 hexane toluene to give purified product.This was combined with 0.6 g of product from another preparation and recrystallized from hexane methylcyclohexane to give 2.4 g of product, m.p. 154 155 . Anal. Calcd. for C27H17F8NO2 C, 60.12 H, 3.18 N, 2.60. Found C, 59.90 H, 3.36 N, 2.46. Example 36 4, 5 Bis 4 fluorophenyl l methyl a , a bis trifluoro methyl lH pyrrole 2 methanol, Methylcarbonate Prepared by a procedure similar to that above, employing methyl chloroformate in place of benzoyl chloride, there was obtained the methyl carbonate ester, named above, obtained as an oil, after purification by preparative HPLC. The IR, proton and fluorine NMR were consistent with the desired structure. Mass spectrum Calcd for C22H15F8NO3 493.0923 Found 493.0920. Following the procedures given in Examples 1 36, the following 4,5 diaryl alpha polyfluoroalkyl lH pyrrole 2 methanols can be prepared Table IV , Table IV 4,5 Diaryl alpha polyfluoroalkyl 1H pyrrole 2 methanolsEMI34.1 EMI34.2 tb Example SEP R1 SEP R2 SEP R SEP R3 SEP R SEP R4 SEP R SEP R SEP 7 SEP Melting SEP Point SEP eC tb 37 SEP 37 SEP H SEP 4 FC6H4 SEP 4 FC6H4 SEP CF2CF3 SEP H SEP H SEP H SEP 135 136 tb SEP 38 SEP H SEP 4 FC6H4 SEP 4 FC6H4 SEP CF2CF3 SEP CH3 SEP H SEP H SEP 98 99 tb SEP 39 SEP H SEP 4 FC6H4 SEP 4 FC6H4 SEP CF3 SEP CH3cH2CH2 SEP H SEP H tb SEP 40 SEP H SEP 4 FC6E4 SEP 4 FC6u4 SEP CF3 SEP CP2CF3 SEP H SEP H tb SEP 41 SEP H SEP 4 FC6H4 SEP 4 FC6H4 SEP CF3 SEP CF3 SEP 4 N02C6H4CH2 SEP H tb SEP 42 SEP H SEP 4 FC6H4 SEP 4 FC6H4 SEP CF3 SEP CF3 SEP C6H5CH2 SEP CH3 tb SEP 43 SEP H SEP 4 FC6H4 SEP 4 FC6H4 SEP CF3 SEP CF3 SEP C6H5CH2 SEP CH3C1 tb SEP o tb SEP 44 SEP E SEP 4 FC6H4 SEP C6 SEP 4 SEP CF3 SEP CF3 SEP CH3 SEP n C6H13C,1 tb SEP tb SEP 45 SEP H SEP 4 FCgHq SEP 4 80684 SEP CF SEP 083 SEP CH SEP 4 N02C6H4CH2 tb SEP H SEP 4 FC6H4 SEP 4 FC6H4 SEP CF3 SEP 3 tb SEP 46 SEP H SEP 4 FC6H4 SEP 4 FC6H4 SEP CP3 SEP a3 SEP CH3 SEP 4 ClC6H4C1, tb SEP 0 tb SEP 47 SEP H SEP 4 FC6H4 SEP 4 FC6H4 SEP F3 SEP CP3 SEP CH3 SEP C6H50C1r tb SEP o tb SEP 48 SEP H SEP 4 FC6H4 SEP 4 FC6H4 SEP CF3 SEP CF3 SEP CH3 SEP C6H5CH2O tb SEP tb Following the procedures given inExamples 1 36, the following intermediate compounds of formula II can be prepared Table V . Table VEMI36.1 melting R1 R2 R3 R4 R6 point C H 4 FC6H4 4 FC6H4 CF3 H 211 212H 4 CH3OC6H4 4 CH3OC6H4 CF2CF3 H 194 195H 4 FC6H4 4 FC6H4 CF2CF3 H 196 197.5 CH3 4 FC6H4 4 FC6H4 CF3 H 174 175H 4 CH30C6H4 4 CH3OC6H4 CF2C1 H H 4 FC6H4 4 FC6H4 CF2H H H 4 FC6H4 C6H5 CF2CF3 H H 4 FC6H4 4 CH30C6H4 CF2CF3 H C2H5 4 FC6H4 4 FC6H4 CF3 H H C6H5 C6H5 CF3 H 161 162 H 4 C1C6H4 4 C1C6H4 CF3 H 226 227 H 4 FC6H4 4 FC6H4 CF3 CH3 93 94 CH3 4 FC H 4 FC H CF3 H 174 175 64 64 CH2CH3 4 CH3OC6H4 4 CH30C6H4 CF2CF3 H H 4 FC6H4 3 pyridyl CF3 H H C6H5 RTI ID 36.8 3,4 C12C6H3 CF3 H H 4 FC6H4 4 CH3SC6H4 CF3CF2 H H 4 FC6H4 4 CH3 2NC6H4 CF3 H H 4 FC6H4 4 BrC6H4 CF3 H H 4 CH3C6H4 4 CH3C6H4 CF3 H H 4 C2H5OC6H4 4 C2H50C6H4 CF3 H H 4 FC6H4 4 FC6H4 CF2H H H 4 FC6H4 4 FC6H4 CF2C1 H H 4 FC6H4 4 FC6H4 CFC12 H H 4 FC6H4 4 FC6H4 CF3 C6H3CH2 H 4 FC6H4 4 FC6H4 CF3 4 NO2C6H4CH2 H 4 FC6H4 4 FC6H4 CF3 n C6H13 UTILITY a Antiinflammatory Compounds All compounds of formulae I and IIa are antiniflainmatory compounds useful for treatment of arthritis and related diseases. The compounds of formula II are intermediates useful for the preparation of compounds of formulaI. The subsclass IIa of formula II which has antiinflammatory properties can be either directly employed as anti inflammatory agents or can be used as intermediates in formation of the compounds of formula I. b Dosage Forms The antiarthritic and analgesic agents of this invention can be administered to treat arthritis or alleviate pain by any means that produces contact of the active agent with the agent s site of action in the body of a mammal. They can be administered by any conventional means available for use in conjunction with pharmaceuticals either as individual therapeutic agents or in a combintion of therapeutic agents. They can be administered alone, but are generally administered with a pharmaceutical carrier selected on the basis of the chosen route of administration and standard pharmaceutical practice. The tosage administered will, of course, vary depending upon known factors such ds the pharmacodynamic characteristics of the particular agent, and its mode and route of administration age, health, and weight of the recipient nature and extent of symptons, kind of concurrent treatment, frequency of treatment, and the effect desired. Usually a daily dosage of active ingredient of formula I can be about 0.01 to 40 milligrams per kilogram of body weight. Ordinarily, 0.05 to 20, and preferably 0.1 to 4 milligrams per kilogram per day given in divided doses 2 to 4 times a day or in sustained release form is effective to obtain desired results. Usually, a daily dosage of active ingredient of formula IIa can be about 1 to 100 milligrams per kilogram of body weight. Ordinarily, 2 to 50, and preferably 5 to 25 milligrams per kilogram per day given in divided doses 2 to 4 times a day or in sustained release form is effective to obtain desired results. Dosage forms compositions suitable for internal administration contain from about 1.0 milligram to about 500 milligram of active ingredient per unit for the formula I compounds and 50 to 500 milligrams of active ingredient per unit for the formula IIa compounds. In these pharmaceutical compositions, the active ingredient will ordinarily be present in an amount of about 0.5 95 by weight based on the total weight of the composition. The active ingredient can be administered orally in solid dosage forms, such as capsules, tablets, and powders, or in liquid dosage forms, such as elixirs, syrups, and suspensions it can also be administered parenterally, in sterile liquid dosage forms. Gelatin capsules contain the active ingredient and powdered carriers, such as lactose, sucrose, mannitol, starch, cellulose derivatives, magnesium stearate, stearic acid, and the like. Similar diluents can be usad to make compressed tablets. Both tablets and cap sules can be manufactured as sustained release products to provide for continuous release of medication over a period of hours. Compressed tablets can be sugar coated or film coated to mask any unpleasant taste and protect the tablet from the atmosphere, or enteric coating for selective disintegration in the gastro intestinal tract. Liquid dosage forms for oral administration can contain coloring and flavoring to increase patient acceptance. In general, water, a suitable oil, saline, aqueous dextrose glucose , and related sugar solutions and glycols such as propylene glycol or polyethylene glycols are suitable carriers for parenteral solutions.Solutions for parenteral administration contain preferably a water soluble salt of the active ingredient, suitable stabilizing agents, and if necessary, buffer substances. Antioxidizing agents such as sodium bisulfite, sodium sulfite, or ascorbic acid either alone or combined are suitable stabilizing agents. Also used are citric acid and its salts and sodium EDTA. In addition parenteral solutions can contain preservatives, such as benzalkonium chloride, methyl or propylparaben and chlorobutanol. Suitable pharmaceutical carriers are described in Remington s Pharmaceutical Sciences, E. W. Martin, a standard reference text in this field. Useful pharmaceutical dosage forms for administration of the compounds of this invention can be illustrated as follows Capsules A large number of unit capsules are prepared by filling standard two piece hard gelatin capsules each with 50 milligrams of powdered active ingredient, 175 milligrams of lactose, 24 milligrams of talc, and 6 milligrams magnesium stearate. A mixture of active ingredient in soybean oil is prepared and injected by means of a positive displacement pump into gelatin to form soft gelatin capsules containing 50 milligrams of the active ingredient. The capsules are washed in petroleum ether and dried. Tablets A large number of tablets are prepared by conventional procedures so that the dosage unit is 50 milligrams of active ingredient, 0.2 milligrams of colloidal silicon dioxide, 5 milligrams of magnesium stearate, 275 milligrams of microcrystalline cellulose, 11 milligrams of cornstarch and 98.8 milligrams of lactose. Appropriate coatings may be applied to increase palatability or delay absorption. Injectable A parenteral position suitable for administration by injection is prepared by stirring 1.5 by weight of active ingredient in 10 by volume propylene glycol and water. The solution is sterilized by filtration. Suspension An aqueous suspension is prepared for oral administration so that each 5 milliliters contain 10 milligrams of finely divided active ingredient, 200 milligrams of sodium carboxymethyl cellulose, 5 milligrams of sodium benzoate, 1.0 grams of sorbitol solution, U.S.P., and 0.025 milliliters of vanillin. Injectable A parenteral composition suitable for administration by injection is prepared by stirring 1 by weight of active ingredient in sodium chloride injection U.S.P. XV and sterilizing by filtration. Use To detect and compare the anti inflammatory activities of compounds in this series and standard drugs, a test was used based on a standard model of arthritis for which there is good correlation with human efficacy. The model is adjuvant induced arthritis in rats. Federation Proceedings, Vol. 32, No. 2, 1973, Models Used for the Study and Therapy of RheumatoidArthritis Symposium of the American Society forPharmacology and Experimental Therapeutics states The rat polyarthritis produced by intradermal injection of a suspension of Mycobacterium tuberculosis is mineral oil adjuvant has been used extensively for the screening of drugs of potential use in rheumatoid arthritis. Compounds of this invention have shown activity in adjuvant induced arthritis in rats which is widely recognized as a good model of human rheumatoid arthritis. METHODS Established Adjuvant Induced Arthritis in Rats Lewis . Wistar male rats Charles River BreedingLaboratories, Wilmington, Mass. weighing 175 220 grams were injected subcutaneously with. 0.1 ml of adjuvant in the plantar area of the right hind paw. The adjuvant was prepared by bead milling, heat killed, lyophilizedMycobacterium butyricum Difco t0640 in light mineral oil Fisher Scientific Co. 0 119 Paraffin OilSaybolt Viscosity 125 135 5 mg ml. Twenty non arthritic control rats were injected with mineral oil, The animals received water and Wayne Lab Blox ad libitum . The rats were held for 14 days to allow the development of polyarthritis. The volume of the uninjected, left hind paw of each rat was measured by using a Ugo Basile Volume Differential Meter, Model 7101.Adjuvant injected rats showing no evidence of arthritis were discarded and the rthritic rats were distributed into groups of 10 having equal mean paw volumes with equal standard deviation. Non arthritic oil injected control rats were distributed to 2 groups of 10.Suspensions of test compounds were prepared for dosing by bead milling 4 mm glass beads in rubber stoppered serum bottles for 4 5 hours in aqueous 1 polyvinyl alcohol, 5 gum acacia and 0.5 methylparaben. Test compounds were given orally by gavage once daily for 7 days days 14 20 . The 2 groups of oil injected, non arthritic control rats and the 2 groups of arthritic control rats received vehicle only for 7 days. Paw volumes uninjected left hind paw were measured 20 hours after the last dose on day 21 . while on a 10 hour light 14 hour dark cycle Percent decrease from control mean paw volume was calculated with the following formula Arthritic Vehicle Control Arthritic Treatment Mean Paw Volume ml Mean Paw Volume ml X 100 Arthritic Vehicle Control Non Arthritic Vehicle Mean Paw Volume m1 Control Mean Paw Volume ml Decrease from Control Mean Paw Volume Dose response regression lines of the decrease were plotted on semi log paper and the EDso for decrease from control paw volume was estimated by inspection. A procedure for detecting and comparing the anal gesic activity of compounds in this series and standard drugs for which there is a good correlatior with human efficacy is the phenylquinone writhing test. Phenylguinone Writhing Test The phenyiquinone writhing test, modified from Siegmund, et al., Proc. Soc. Sxp. Biol. Med., 95, 729 1957 , was employed. A test compound suspended in 18 methylcellulose was given orally to fasted 17 21 hours female white mice, 5 20 animals per double blind test. Aqueous 0.01 phenyl E benzoquinone phenyl quinone was injected intraperitoneally at 24 minutes later using 0.20 ml per mouse. Commencing at 30 minutes after the oral administration of the test com pound, the mice were observed for 10 minutes for a characteristic stretching or writhing syndrome which is indicative of pain induced by phenylquinone. The effective analgesic dose for 50 of the mice ED50 was calculated by the mcving average method of Thompson, W. R., Bact. Rev., 11, 115 145 1947 . RESULTS The antiarthritic and analgesic activity of some compounds of this invention are summarized in Table VI for the formula I compounds. The results are summarized in Table VII for the formula IIa compounds. Table VIAntiarthritic and Analgesic ActivityEMI45.1 tb SEP 54 tb SEP 2 087 SEP Adjwant SEP sl SEP Phenylquinone tb SEP R N SEP C OR7 SEP Adjuvant tb SEP Z SEP Arthrltisl SEP Phenylquinone tb R6 SEP 5 SEP ED50 SEP Writhing SEP ED50 tb SEP R tb Example SEP R SEP R SEP R SEP 4 5 SEP R SEP R SEP mg kg SEP tb SEP 1 SEP H SEP 4 C1C6H4 SEP 4 C1C6H4 SEP CF SEP CF3 SEP H SEP H SEP 7.0 SEP 108 tb SEP 2 SEP 8 SEP C6 SEP 5 SEP C6H5 SEP a3 SEP a3 SEP H SEP 8 SEP 42 181 SEP 135 tb SEP 3 SEP H SEP 4 FC6E4 SEP 4 FC6E4 SEP CF3 SEP CF3 SEP H SEP 8 SEP 3.5 SEP 108 tb SEP 4 SEP H SEP C6H5 SEP 3, SEP 4 C12C6E3 SEP CF3 SEP CF3 SEP H SEP H SEP 70 SEP 108 tb SEP 5 SEP H SEP 4 FC6H4 SEP 4 BrC6H4 SEP CF3 SEP CF3 SEP H SEP 6 SEP 6.0 SEP 135 tb SEP 6 SEP CH3 SEP 4 FC6H4 SEP 4 FC6E4 SEP CF3 SEP CF3 SEP H SEP H SEP 2.8 SEP 135 tb SEP 7 SEP E, SEP C6H5 SEP 3 pyridyl SEP a3 SEP CF3 SEP H SEP H SEP 41t1 18 SEP 78 tb SEP 8 SEP H SEP 4 CH3oC6H4 SEP 4 CH30C6H4 SEP CF3 SEP a3 SEP H SEP H SEP 4.0 SEP 5.2 tb SEP 9 SEP H SEP 4CH3C6E4 SEP 4 SEP CE3C6 SEP 4 SEP CF3 SEP a3 SEP H SEP H SEP 8.0 SEP 108 tb SEP 10 SEP H SEP 4 FC6E4 SEP 4 CH3 2NC6H4 SEP CF3 SEP H SEP H SEP 2.2 SEP 108 tb SEP 11 SEP H SEP 4 FC6E4 SEP 3 pyridyl SEP CF3 SEP a3 SEP H SEP H SEP 472 15 SEP 108 tb SEP 12 SEP H SEP 4 FC6H4 SEP 4 CH3SC6H4 SEP CF3 SEP CF3 SEP H SEP H SEP 9.0 SEP 108 tb SEP 13 SEP H SEP 4 FC6H4 SEP 4 CH3S02C6H4 SEP CF3 SEP a3 SEP H SEP H SEP 22Z 27 SEP 108 tb SEP 16 SEP H SEP 4 FC6H4 SEP 4 FC6H4 SEP CF2CF2CF2 SEP H SEP H SEP 1.3 SEP 108 tb SEP 17 SEP H SEP 4 FC6H4 SEP 4 FC6H4 SEP CF2C1 SEP CF2C1 SEP 8 SEP H SEP 6.5 SEP 108 tb SEP 18 SEP H SEP 4 FC6H4 SEP 4 FC6H4 SEP CHF2 SEP CF3 SEP H SEP H SEP 4.0 SEP 108 tb SEP 19 SEP H SEP 4 FC6H4 SEP 4 FC684 SEP CF2C1 SEP CF3 SEP H SEP H SEP 2.0 SEP 108 tb SEP 20 SEP H SEP 4 FC6H4 SEP 4 FC6H4 SEP CF2CF2CFC1 SEP H SEP H SEP 4.5 SEP 108 tb SEP 21 SEP H SEP 4 FC684 SEP 4 FC6E4 SEP CF2CF2CF8r SEP H SEP H SEP 20 SEP 108 tb SEP 22 SEP H SEP 4 FC6E4 SEP 4 FC6E4 SEP CF2C1 SEP CFC12 SEP H SEP H SEP 7.0 SEP 108 tb SEP 28 SEP H SEP 4 FC6E4 SEP 4 FC6E4 SEP a3 SEP CF3 SEP CH3 SEP H SEP 0.66 SEP 45 tb SEP 29 SEP H SEP 4 FC6H4 SEP 4 FC6H4 SEP a3 SEP H SEP H SEP H SEP 11 SEP 108 tb SEP 30 SEP H SEP 4 CH30C6H4 SEP 4 CH30C6H4 SEP CF3 SEP H SEP H SEP H SEP 5.5 SEP q08 tb SEP 31 SEP H SEP 4 CH30C6H4 SEP 4 CH30C6H4 SEP CF3 SEP CH3 SEP H SEP H SEP 1.25 SEP 23 tb SEP 32 SEP H SEP 4 FC6E4 SEP 4 FC6E4 SEP CF3 SEP CF3 SEP CH3 SEP CH3 SEP 5.5 SEP 108 tb SEP 33 SEP H SEP 4 FC684 SEP 4 FC684 SEP CF3 SEP CF3 SEP H SEP CH2C6E5 SEP 35Z 25 SEP tb SEP 34 SEP H SEP 4FCeH4 SEP 4 FC6H4 SEP CF3 SEP CF3 SEP Cm SEP 3 SEP CC83 SEP 2.5 SEP 108 tb SEP o tb SEP 35 SEP H SEP 4 FC6E4 SEP 4 FC6R4 SEP CF3 SEP CF3 SEP CH3 SEP Cm SEP 8, SEP 22Z 27 SEP 108 tb SEP 0 tb SEP 36 SEP H SEP 4 FC61 4 SEP 4 FC6H4 SEP CF3 SEP CF3 SEP CH3 SEP Coy83 SEP 46x 25 SEP 108 tb SEP 0 tb SEP 37 SEP H SEP 4 FC6H4 SEP 4 FC6E4 SEP CF2CF3 SEP H SEP H SEP H SEP 101 19 SEP 108 tb Values in parentheses represent the percent reduction in paw volume at the indicated dose. Table VIIIAdjuvant Arthritis ActivityÚEMI46.1 Adjuvant Arthritis R1 R2 R3 R4 ED50 mg kg H 4 CH3OCH4 4 CH3OC6H4 CF3 90 H 4 FC6H4 4 FC6H4 CF3 29 27 H 4 CH3OC6H4 4 CH3OC6 H4 CF2CF3 20 H 4 FC6E4 4 FC6H4 CF2CF3 25 CH3 4 FC H4 4 FC6H4 CF3 9 50 êValues in parentheses represent percent reduction in paw volume at the indicated dose.2Although not active at the dose tested, this compound is expected to have antiinflaratory activity at hiaher dosage levels.