# Housing for a working space equipment and profile piece for said housing.

## Abstract
Housing e.g. lamp housing or air outlet consisting of identical profiles completing an outline at least locally, these profiles having inwardly extending longitudinal rims and being interconnected by means of said rims.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A housing for a working space equipment, for example, a tubular lamp, comprising two longitudinal walls constructed in the form of profile pieces arranged at a distance from one another and being interconnected by means of coupling pieces, characterized in that the profile pieces mainly have the form of part of a tube and in that the two profile pieces are interconnected by means of joining coupling pieces, having identical profiles, at least one of which is locally discontinued and in that the identical profiles of the profile pieces and coupling pieces have inwardly extending longitudinal rims, which are engaged by tie means for the interconnection of the profile pieces and the coupling pieces. 2. A housing as claimed in claim 1, characterized in that the profile pieces mainly form one quarter of a tube wall. 3. A housing as claimed in claim 1 or 2, characterized in that the coupling piece is connected with two profile pieces by means of U shaped brackets gripping around longitudinal rims. 4. A housing as claimed in any one of the preceding claims, characterized in that switching means, for example, a contact box and or a connection for information and or communication apparatus are arranged in the housing. 5. A housing as claimed in any one of the preceding claims, characterized in that a transparent profile piece is arranged between profile pieces of a lamp housing 6. A housing as claimed in any one of the preceding claims, characterized in that the profile pieces are each provided with a rim into which snaps a mirror of a housing 7. A housing as claimed in any one ofthe preceding claims, characterized in that lamp carriers are adjustable in a direction of height with respect to the housing. 8. A housing as claimed in any one of the preceding claims, characterized in that the profile pieces have on the inner side at the centre of their form a longitudinal groove for receiving wiring, contact tape, mounting plate and or a partition. 9. A housing as claimed in any one of the preceding claims, characterized in that the housing constitutes a structural element of furniture figs. 15, 16 or a partition fig. 19 . 10. A housing as claimed in claim9, characterized in that at least one of the profile pieces of the housing hasexternal ribs for accommodating between them a rim of a wall figs. 17, 18 . 11. A housing as claimed in any one of the preceding claims, characterized in that the housing constitutes a coupling housing betwe en a floor lead system and a ceiling lead system. 12. A housing as claimed in any one of the preceding claims, characterized in that the housing comprises a profile piece which together with the profile piece of a neighbouring housing consists of a monolith. 13. A profile piece apparently intended for use as a longitudinal wall of a housing as claimed in any one of the preceding claims.

## Description
Housing for a working space equipment and profile piece for said housing The invention relates to a housing for a working space equipment, for example, a tubular lamp, comprising two longitudinal walls constructed in the form of profile pieces arranged at a distance from one another and being interconnected by means of coupling pieces. Such a housing is known in the form of a lamp housing from Dutch Patent Application No. 7609930. The invention has for its object to provide a housing of the kind set forth, which can be manufactured in a simple manner and has a fine appearance. To this end the profile pieces mainly have the form of part of a tube and the two profile pieces are interconnected by means of joining coupling pieces, having identical profiles, at least one of which is locally discontinued and the identical profiles of the profile pieces and coupling pieces have inwardly extending longitudinal rims, which are engaged by tie means for the interconnection of the profile pieces and the coupling pieces. In this way a housing is obtained, which mainly has a regular, for example, cylindrical appearance. The tubular appearance is particularly obtained when the housing designed as a lamp housing comprises a coupling piece in the form of a tubing part on the top side between the ends. The invention relates to and provides furthermore a profile piece apparently intended for use as a longitudinal wall of a housing in accordance with the invention. Such a profile piece according to the invention in conjunction with further profile pieces having an identical profile may form a tubular element in which one or more, preferably all equipments required for a working room, for example, lamps, switching material, wiring, contact tape, information, communication and ventilation means can be accommodated. The tubular housing may furthermore be part of a wall and or furniture structure. Profile pieces having identical profiles may furthermore be used mounting cylinders and structural components. In the following description with reference to a drawing the aforesaid and further features of the invention will be explained more fully. The drawing shows in fig. 1 a perspective view of part of an office room having a preferred embodiment of a housing in accordance with the invention constructed in the form of a lamp housing, fig. 2 an enlarged side elevation of the housing of fig. 1, fig. 3 a longitudinal sectional view of the housing of fig. 2, fig. 4 an elevational view taken in the direction of the arrows IV of fig. 3, fig. 5 an elevational view taken in the direction of the arrows V in fig. 2, fig. 6 a sectional view taken on the line VI VI in fig. 3, fig. 7 a sectional view taken on the line VII VII in fig. 3, fig. 8 a sectional view taken on the line VIII VIII in fig. 3, fig. 9 a sectional view corresponding to fig. 7 of a housing in accordance with the invention, in which the segments are disposed in a different manner, fig. 10 a perspective view of a housing in accordance with the invention, serving as an air outlet, fig. 11 a sectional view of a variant of the housing in accordance with the invention, figs. 12, 14 and 20 perspective views of different housings in accordance with the invention, fig. 13 a perspective, exploded view of the housing shown in fig. 12, figs. 15 and 16 different pieces of furniture having housings in accordance with the invention, fig. 17 detail XVII of fig. 16, fig. 18 a horizontal sectional view of a partition having a housing in accordance with the invention, fig. 19 a perspective view of a partition having a housing in accordance with the invention, fig. 21 a ceiling having different housings in accordance with the invention, figs. 22 and 23 different combinations of housings in accordance with the invention, figs. fig. 24 and 25 different profile pieces to form a housing in accordance with the invention and fig. 26 a ceiling having a raster of housings in accordance with the invention. Fig. 1 shows a working space in an office room. A housing according to the invention constructed in the form of a lamp housing 1 is hanging by wires 2 at a ceiling 3 over a desk 4. The lamp housing 1 comprises two profile pieces 5 forming two longitudinal walls spaced apart from one another and disposed each on one side of the place of a tubular lamp 6 and being interconnected by means of coupling pieces 7, 8, 9 and 10. Preferably, the profile pieces 5 as well as the coupling pieces 7, 8, 9 and 10 are mainly arcuate. The profile pieces 5 smoothly join the coupling pieces7, 8, 9, and 10 so that around, octogonal, hexagonal or oval section and hence a cylindrical or at least tubular appearance is obtained. The coupling pieces 7, 8, 9, and 10 are arranged at the ends of the lamp housing 1 and close technical spaces 11 and 12 round about, so that herein switching material such as a starter 13, a transformer 14 and a manual switch 15 can be accommodated.The ends are closed by covers 17 and 18 in which a contact box 19 for 220 V and a contact box 20 for telephone connection respectively are arranged. The profile pieces 5 and the coupling pieces 7, 8, 9, and 10 are preferably made from the same, preferably aluminium sections forming part, for example, one quarter of the tubular form and having inwardly extending rims 21, around which grips aU shaped bracket 22 for interconnecting the joined profiles. The rims 21 can, moreover, carry mirror 23 and or 24 figs. 6 and 7 or partitions 16 enclosing air channels 25 for drawing or supplying air fig. 11 . If the profile pieces 5 and the coupling pieces 7, 8, 9, and 10 have at the centre an extension 26 with a groove 27, a separating or mounting plate 28 can be arranged therein, which may carry technical switching material 13, 14 or other parts to be described more fully hereinafter. Above the tubular lamp 6 a transparent hood 30 may be arranged, for example, of transparent synthetic resin or a perforated plate between the profile pieces 5, the plate smoothly snapping in between them. In the variant shown in fig. 9 two hoods 30 of this kind are arranged one on each side of the tubular lamp 6. Such lamp housings 1 of figs. 1 and or 7 provide a very effective working space unit. Fastening of the unit at 60 to 70 cm above a desk and equipped with a 40 W tubular lamp provides about 800 Lux on the work surface and sufficient light for avoiding troublesome brightness ratios in the direct environment of the work. The invention thus provides a possibility of saving material and energy. The housing 66 of fig. 10 is a cylindrical air outlet and serves as such as a working space unit. Between the profile pieces 74 interrupted coupling pieces 84 are provided, in which an air outlet element 85 is arranged which mainly consists of a profile identical to the profile pieces 74, there being, however, arranged thereon a connecting nipple 86, with which an air outlet pipe can be connected.The housing 66 can conduct away the drawn in air in upward or downward direction. The tubular lamp 6 is preferably arranged in carriers 34, which can be fastened to a partition 35 so as to be adjustable in a direction of height see figs. 3, 6 and 7 for controlling the radiation downwards and also upwards in the case of fig. 7. Fig. 12 shows an electric column 29 standing on a floor 36 and being electrically connected to a cable channel 37 lying in the floor 36. This column 29 has a foot 38 screwed to the floor 36. The construction of the column 29 is illustrated in fig. 13. The column is a housing according to the invention mainly consisting of four identical profile pieces 5, which are interconnected by means of brackets 22 and guarded against relative, axial displacement by means of screws 39 passed across the foot 38 and the cover 40 respectively into the grooves 27. Below, the column has a lateral contact box 41 beneath a bent over covering plate 42 fastened to a carrier 28. The covering plate 42 is fixed by screws 43 in a groove 27. Above, the column 29 has a tubular lamp 6 screened by two hoods 30 arranged in the manner shown in fig. 9. The column 29 of fig. 14 is distinguished from that of fig. 12 in that the top end 44 joins a ceiling gutter 45 or a building profile according to Dutch Patent Application 7505763, in which electric wiring or contact strip is arranged, whilst the electric supply lead starts from the gutter 37, passes through the column 29 and connects a wiring system arranged in the ceiling. Thus the column 29 of fig. 14 constitutes a coupling member between a floor and a ceiling system. A housing without lamp is formed by one leg 46 and the three legs 47 of a table 48 of fig. 15. The leg 46 consists of a short column without a lamp substantially corresponding with the column 29 and constructed from four profile pieces 5 with a local contact box 41. The cover 49 of each leg has a console like extension 50, which is fastened by screws 51 to the table top 52 lying thereon. The same applies to the desk 53 of fig 16, in which the leg 47 has a contact box 41 above the table top 52 and joins via an elbow connection 54 a horizontal lamp housing 1, which is substantially identical to the lamp housing 1 of fig. 1 apart from the suspension to the connecting piece 54 and the lack of suspension wires 2.In the area of the table top 52 one of the four profile pieces 5 is replaced by a special profile piece 55 fig. 17 , which has two external cheeXs 56, in which a console 57 is fastened, to which the table top 52 bearing thereon is screwed. Such profile pieces 55 are, in great lengths, also suitable for construction of columns 58, as the case may be, together with profile pieces 5, for partitions 59 of fig. 18.In each profile piece 55 a wall rim 60 can be arranged and fastened therein. Thus one, two, three or four walls can extend from a column 58, whilst a corresponding number of profile pieces 5 is replaced by profile pieces 55. Without any objection a contact box 41 and or a lamp 6 may be arranged in a column 58 joining less than four walls see fig. 19 . The lamp housing 1 of fig. 16 without table top 52 constitutes in itself a light column 61 as shown in fig. 20.A hanging lamp housing 1 on an L shaped housing 62 as an anchorage of fig. 20 is illustrated in fig. 21, which shows in addition, a contact box 41 of a housing 64 suspended to a ceiling 63. As shown in fig. 22 two parallel housings 65 can be interconnected by a bracket profile 67 mainly consisting of two brackets 22 interconnected by a web 68. The other profile pieces 5 are interconnected by brackets 22. As shown in fig. 23 two profile pieces 5 can be united in back to back relationship to form a single profile piece 69, whilst they form each part of a housing 1,for example, to form a light trough comprising two series of parallel tubular lamps 6. The profile piece 70 of fig. 24 has two outer grooves 71 for fastening a housing constructed from such profile pieces 70 to a building or a piece of furniture and it has an inner groove 72 for receiving an electric cable 73. The profile piece 75 of fig. 25 has an inner groove 76 for a tape lead 77 and it has only one outer groove 78 for the suspension of the housing to be made therefrom. The rims 79 have furthermore narrow grooves 80 forming together with a further narrow groove 80 of a neighbouring profile piece 75 a peripherical channel, into which can be introduced a screw or a friction member by which two neighbouring profile pieces 75 are guarded against relative, axial displacement. Fig. 26 shows a raster of housings 82 suspended to a ceiling 81, said housings being intercoupled by cross pieces 83 and comprising optionally contact boxes 41 for 220V, telephone, telex and the like and or tubular lamps 6. By identical profile pieces 5, as the case may be, in conjunction with elbow shaped, cross shaped or T shaped coupling pieces housings can be combined to form raster, fur niture, wall and or ceiling parts, whilst all kinds of lamp housings can be formed thereby. In this way a fine, architectural entity can be created.