# Oriented polypropylene with linear low density polyethylene copolymer coating.

## Abstract
The present invention relates to heat sealable laminar thermoplastic films which may be heat sealed over a wide range of temperatures. The resultant heat seals exhibit a high heat seal strength. Such laminar structures comprise at least two layers of thermoplastic film, one of the layers being an oriented base layer and the other layer a heat sealable skin layer. Preferably the base layer is an alpha olefin such as polypropylene or copolymers thereof and the skin layer is preferably a linear, low density polyethylene copolymer, comprising ethylene which has been copolymerized with another alpha olefin in the presence of a stereospecific catalyst.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A laminar thermoplastic film comprising an oriented polypropylene base layer having at least one side coated with a copolymer characterized in that the copolymer comprises a polyethylene based copolymer comprising a linear, low density copolymer of ethylene and an alpha olefin having from 3 to 10 carbon atoms. 2. A laminar thermoplastic film in accordance with Claim 1 characterized in that said linear low density copolymer comprises a predominant amount of ethylene copolymerized with at least one of propylene, butene, pentene, hexene, octene, nonene, decene or 4 methyl pentene 1. 3. A laminar thermoplastic film in accordance with Claim 1 or 2 characterized in that said copolymer is prepared by polymerization in the presence of a stereospecific catalyst and has a density of from 0.900 up to 0.9w9 gram per cc. 4. A laminar thermoplastic film in accordance with any of Claims 1 to 3 characterized in that said polypropylene is biaxially oriented. 5. A laminar thermoplastic film in accordance with any of Claims 1 to 4 characterized in that said copolymer comprises at least 90 by veight of ethylene. 6. A laminar thermoplastic film in accordance with any of Claims 1 to 5 characterized in that said layer of copolymer comprises from 2 to 10 of the total thickness of the laminar film. 7. A laminar thermoplastic film in accordance with any of Claims 1 to 6 characterized in that the laminate is prepared by coextrusion of the individual layers.

## Description
ORIENTED POLYPROPYLENE WITH LINEAR LOW DENSITY POLYETHYLENE COPOLYMER COATING The present invention relates to laminar thermoplastic structures characterized by having a base layer and a heat sealable skin layer which may be formed by coextrusion of molten polymer layers through a common die orifice by adhesively bonding the individual layers together or by utilizing heat welding techniques to form the desired laminate structure. In packaging applications using thermoplastic films, for example polypropylene, it is usually necessary to seal the film during the packaging operation. This may be accomplished by using adhesives or by using heat sealing techniques the particular sealing technique chosen may depend on the properties of the thermoplastic films, the packaging application and the packaging technique being used. The use of heat sealing techniques on oriented film may result in the loss of orientation in the vicinity Or the heat seal. Heat sealed oriented films may therefore exhibit inferior and unacceptable film appearance and properties. In order to heat seal oriented film and obtain acceptable product propertiet, it ma be necessary to apply to the oriented film a coating or laminar layer which has a melting point which is less than the de orientation teripratLre of the oriented fill, to ailok heat sealing ci the thus coated oriented filr at a sealing temperature which is also less than the de orientation temDerature of the oriented film.The application of the heat sealable laminar layer to the base oriented film may be accomplished utilizing various techniques including melt estrusion of the heat sealable layer onto a preformed oriented base web, employing adhesive materials, or heat welding of the individual layers together. Preferably, however, a coextrusion technique may be employed whereby the individual layers when in molten form are brought together inside the confines of either a cast film die or a tubular die and the thus united molten polymer streams are subsequently extruded through a common die orifice to form the laminate base web which may be sequently oriented. In the past, coextruded oriented films have been prepared in which the oriented polypropylene core is coated with skins comprising an ethylene propylene random copolymer containing minor amounts of ethylene.Such laminar films exhibit high heat seal strengths, but because of the relatively high melting point of the copolymer skin, i.e., on the order of from about 285 0F to about 305 F, the temperature range over which usable heat seals may be formed, is narrow. Similarly, in the past, coextruded oriented films have been prepared wherein the core is an oriented polypropylene and the skin layers are comprised of low density polyethylene which has been polymerized utilizing conventional free radical catalyzed processes. In the case of such laminates, because of the lower melting point of the low density polyethylene skin resin than that of the hereinabove described ethylene propylene copolymer skins, a broader sealing range is achieved.However, the seal strength provided by skins comprised of such polyethylene homopolymer which has been poly prized by a free radical catalyzed process are not as high as those provided by an ethylene propylene random copolymer skin. Moreover, the haze and gloss values of such films are poorer than the haze and gloss values exhibited by oriented polypropylene films. The present invention provides for the manufacture of an oriented film laminate comprising the steps of bringing together in face to face engagement, preferably while in molten form, a base web such as polypropylene, for example, and a skin resin which has a lower melting. point than the polypropylene and subse auertlv crientino the coextruded base layer at a temperature below the melting point of the base polypropylene film. The low melting skin resins of the present invention are preferably polyethylene copolymers and particularly linear low density polyethylene copolymers. Commercial polyethylenes are sold as two distinct products, low density polyethylene and high density polyethylene. Low density polyethylene is manufactured by a high pressure, high temperature, free radical catalyzed process. Commercially available low to medium density polyethylene resins have densities in the range of 0.910 0.939 gram cc. Sometimes these resins are referred to as branched polyethylenes because the polymer chain contains branches. High density polyethylene resins, i.e., resins having densities ranging up to about 0.970 gram cc are manufactured at lower pressures and temperatures via heterogeneous ionic catalytic processes, for example, those utilizing and orzano metallic or a transition metal oxide catalyst. The products are linear, nonbranched polyethylene. To reduce the density of such high density polyethylene resins below the range of densities that are normally produced in such proceses, another alphaolefin or co monomer, may be copolymerized with the ethylene. If enough co monomer is added to the chain to bring the density down to 0.910 0.939 gram cc, then such products are known as linear, low density polyethylene copolymers. Because of the difference of the structure of the polymer chains, branched low density and linear, low density polyethylene have different properties even though their densities may be similar. For example, a comparison of the properties of film made from a linear low density polyethylene of resin density .922 with those of film made from a high pressure low density polyethylene of resin density .420 shows the former to have a higher modulus, yield strength, tensile strength and elongation at break, impact strength and tear strength than the latter. Linear low density polyethylene copolymers may be prepared utilizing the process, for example, as described in U.S. Patent Nos. 3,645,992 and 4,011,382, the disclosures of which are incorporated herein by reference. Such copolymers may have densities ranging from about 0.900 up to about 0.925 for low density polymers and from about 0.926 up to about 0.939 for medium density polymers. The co monomer which is copolymerized with the polyethylene is preferably an alpha olefin having from about 3 up to about 10 carbon atoms. The density of the ethylene copolymer is primarily regulated by the amount of the co mcnomer which is copolymerized with the ethylene. In the absence of the co monomer, the ethylene would homopolymerize in the presence of a stereospecific catalyst to yield homopolymers having a density equal to or above 0.95.Thus, the addition of progressively larger amounts of the comonomer to the ethylene monomer, results in a progressive lowering, in approximately a linear fashion, of the density of the resultant ethylene copolymer. The present invention provides heat sealable thermoplastic laminates which exhibit high heat seal strengths as well as broad heat seal temperature ranges.The laminate comprises a biaxially oriented polypropylene film base layer having external skin layers of a linear, low density copolymer of ethylene and another terminally unsaturated hydrocarbon monomer that has been polymerized in the presence of a stereospecific catalyst. Such ethylene copolymer skin layers preferably have a density of less than about 0.940. As hereinbefore described, the present invention is directed to the manufacture of an oriented polypropylene film that is heat sealable over a wide range of temperatures, such films additionally exhibitin a high level of heat seal strength. This may be accomplished by laminating, for example by coextrusion, a polypropylene core layer to one or more surface layers comprising a linear low density copolymer, such copolymer comprising ethylene and another terminally unsaturated hydrocarbon monomer, such monomers having been polymerized in the presence of an organo metallic catalyst such as, for example, a Ziegler type catalyst commonly employed in the low pressure polymerization process for the production of high density polyethylene ho polymers. Following coextrusion, the resultant laminar sheet may be oriented by any of the means for fi orientation common in the prior art. Although a wide variety of well known prior art techniques may be Provided to produce the desired bas laminar film and subsequently orient the base film, the prposes of description of particular embodiments of the present invention, the subject laminar films were prepared in accordance with the following procedure.The ethylene copolymer skin and polypropylene core resins were first separately formed into individual squire placues, 2 3 8 inches by 2 3 8 inches, having a core thickness of about 26 to 28 mils and skin thickness of about 2 to about 10 mils. A compsite, two ply structure was then assembled by joining the particular skin and core materials by heat sealing around the perimeter of tne asembly. The purpose of this heat sealing step was simply to ensure that the two plies did not become accidently separated during handling and prior to orien tat sn of the assembly. Biaxial orientation was accom plished by stretching the two ply assembly on a stretching apparatus manufactured by the T. M. Long ComF ny. This apparatus essentially consists of an oven er.lsing a rectangular stretching frame, the opposing sides of which can be caused to move apart while still retaining the rectangular configuration. Each side of the stretching frame is fitted with a plurality of pneu atically actuated pistons whose function it is to grip the sample plaque around its perimeter thereby transmitting to the sample the force required to stretch it. In practice, the sample is introduced into the stretching frame, gripped by the pneumatically actuated pistons and heated to the desired temperature. It is then stretched to the desired extent and at the desired rate in either or both directions.Heat sealing of the oriented laminar film structures was carried out by sealing the non polypropylene surfaces of two such oriented laminar films together utilizing a sealing pressure of about 5 p.s.i. and a dwell time of 2.0 seconds. Example 1 A 10 mil compression molded plaque of a copolymer of ethylene and 4 methylpentene 1 which comprised 2.0 by weight of 4 methylpentene 1, the copolymer resin having a melt index of 3.0 and a density of 0.925 gram cc and which was prepared utlizing a polymerization process which employed a stereospecific catalyst and a 27 mil compression molded plaque of polypropylene resin, having a density of 0.905 gram cc and a melt flow rate of 4.5 were assembled by heat sealing around the periphery of the plaques as described above. The assembly was subsequently inserted into theT. M. Long stretching apparatus and following preheating for about 1 minute at 312 F, was first stretched 5 times at a rate of about 25,000 percent per minute and then was stretched 7 times in a perpendicular direction to the first stretch at a rate of about 3,600 percent per minute.The heat seal properties of the film prepared in accordance with Example 1 as well as the properties of the films prepared in accordance with the succeeding examples including the prior art films are set forth in the following Table. Example 2 The procedure of Example 1 was followed except that the skin resin was a copolymer of ethylene and about 1.07R by weight of methylpentene 1 having a density of 0.935 gram cc and a Melt Index of 3.0. Example 3 The procedure of Example 2 was followed except that the compression molded plaQue of the ethylene 4methylpentene 1 copolymer skin resin was 2 3 mils in thickness. Example 4 The procedure of Example 3 was followed except that the skin resin was a copolymer of ethylene and octene 1 which was polymerized with a stereospecific catalyst .919 density, 6.0 Melt Index . Example 5 The procedure of Example 3 was followed except that the skin resin was a copolymer of ethylene and octene 1 which was polymerized with a stereospecific catalyst and that contained 2.55 octene 1 .921 density, 2.0 Melt Index . PRIOR ART EXAMPLES Example 6 The procedure of Example 3 was followed except that the skin was a polyethylene homopolymer that was produced by the high pressure, free radical catalyzed process .935 density, 3.0 Melt Index . Example 7 The procedure of Example 3 was followed except that the skin resin was a polyethylene homopolymer that was produced by the high presure, free radical catalyzed process .920 density, 0.3 Melt Index . Example 8 The procedure of Example 1 was followed except that the skin resin comprised a random copolymer of ethylene and propylene 3.0 ethylene, 4.5 Melt FlowRate, .905 density . ATBLE 1Film of Heat Seal Strength After Sealing AtExample 250 F, 260 F, 270 F, 280 F, 290 F, 295 F, 1 100 472 495 680 803 2 0 175 558 750 1188 3 13 285 453 525 568 4 60 394 457 565 652 5 15 158 468 505 537 6 3 18 235 273 395 7 0 8 25 223 215 8 0 0 0 0 200 600 In Table 1 there is set forth heat seal data which was obtained on the films produced in accordance with Examples 1 through 8 inclusive. It will be noted that the films of the present invention, i.e., Examples 1 through 5 inclusive, provide a much broader heat seal range than did the prior art film of Example 8, in which the skin layer of the laminate was constituted by an ethylene propylene copolymer. It will be further noted that the films of the present invention provided not only a broader sealing range but also higher heat seal strengths then the prior art films of Examples 6 and 7 in which the outer laminar skins consisted of polyethylene resins that had ben polymerized utilizing the free radical catalyzed process of the prior art. Although the present invention has been described with preferred embodiments, it is to be understood that modifications and variations may be resorted to, without departing from the spirit and scope of this invention, as those skilled in the art will readily understand. Such modifications and variations are considered to be within the purview and scope of the appended claims.