# A valve for use in well testing and a method of utilising said valve.

## Abstract
The present invention discloses a by pass valve 18 for use in well testing. It is desirable to test a petroleum formation under both static and flowing conditions. This has usually been effected utilising complicated and relatively expensive apparatus and procedures. The present invention provides for the use of a simple by pass valve 18 which can be retrievably located in well tubing by simple wire line techniques. The valve 18 of the present invention has a body 23,24 having a seat 26 therein, a valve member 27 being cooperable with said seat 26 . A first spring 29 urges the valve member 27 towards one of open and closed positions and a plunger 31 is con nected to the valve member 27 to move with the valve member 27 between the open and closed positions. The connection between the plunger 31 and the valve member 27 provides for movement of the plunger 31 relative to the valve member 27 after the valve member 27 reaches the other of said open and closed positions. A second spring 38 opposes relative movement between the plunger 31 and the valve member 27 and pulling means 43 are arranged to releasably latch onto the plunger 31 , latch release means 36 being arranged to release the pulling means 43 from said plunger 31 upon movement of the plunger 31 a selected distance towards said other position after the valve member 27 has moved to said other position. Thus the present invention basically provides a well testing system and method in which a by pass valve 18 is positioned in the tubing 14 and a probe 19 run on a line from the surface opens and closes the valve 18 with vertical movement of the probe 19 . The probe 19 when located in the valve 18 is exposed to formation fluids and may transmit back to the surface, or may record information about the formation. The probe 19 may also collect a sample of fluid to return to the surface with the probe.