# Oxamide derivatives, their use in stabilizing organic materials and stabilized organic materials containing the said oxamide derivatives.

## Abstract
Novel N,N bis alkylhydroxyphenyl alkanoyloxyhydrocarbyl oxamides which can be prepared by reacting an alkylhydroxyphenylalkanoic acid, an ester or anhydride thereof or a corresponding acid halide with an N,N bis hydroxyhydrocarbyl oxamide, are useful as stabilizers of organic materials normally subject to oxidative deterioration, e.g. polymers such as polyolefins. Methods of stabilizing organic materials subject to oxidative deterioration and stabilized organic materials with N,N bis alkylhydroxyphenyl alkanoyloxyhydrocarbyl oxamides are provided.

## Claims
WHAT IS CLAIMED IS 1. A compound characterized bv the formulaEMI18.1 in which each R1 independently is alkyl having up to about 8 carbon atoms including a tertiary carbon atom directly linked to the phenolic ring on which that R1 is a substituent, each Rê independently is H or alkyl having up to about 8 carbon atoms, and each X independently is a divalent hydrocarbon radical containing up to about 12 carbon atoms including from 1 to about 10 carbon atoms forming the shortest chain linking the adjacentEMI18.2 andEMI18.3 radicals in said compound. 2. A compound of Claim 1 characterized in that each R1 is the same alkyl and X is alkylene or phenylene. 3. A compound of Claim 2 characterized in thatX is alkylene containing not more than about I carbon atom more than the number of carbon atoms in said chain. 4. A compound of Claim 1 characterized in thatR1 is tertiary butyl and each R2 is tertiary butyl ortho to the hydroxy radical on the phenolic ring on which that R2is a substituent. 5. A compound of Claim 4 characterized in thatX is alkylene or phenylene. 6. A compound of Claim 5 characterized in thatX is alkylene containing not more than about 1 carbon atom more than the number of carbon atoms in said chain. 7. A compound of Claim 6 characterized in thatX contains 2 or 3 carbon atoms. 8. A compound of Claim 7 characterized in that x is ethylene. 9. A compound of Claim 5 characterized in that Xis meta phenylene. 10. A compound of Claim 5 characterized in thatX is orthophenylene. 11. A method for stabilizing organic material against oxidative deterioration, characterized by incorporating in organic material normally subject to said deterioration a stabilizing amount of a compound having the structural formulaEMI19.1 in which each R1 is independently alkyl having up to about 8 carbon atoms including a tertiary carbon atom directly linked to the phenolic ring on which that R1 is a substituent, each R2 is independently H or alkyl having up to about 8 carbon atoms, and each X is independently a divalent hydrocarbon radical containing up to about 12 carbon atoms including from 1 to about 10 carbon atoms forming the shortest chain linking the adjacentEMI19.2 andEMI19.3 radicals in said compound. 12. Method of Claim 11 characterized in that each R1 is tertiary butyl, each R2 is tertiary butyl ortho to the hydroxy radical on the phenolic ring on which thatR2 is a substituent and X is phenylene or alkylene. 13. Method of Claim 12 wherein said organic material is polyolefin. 14. Method of Claim 10 characterized in that said polyolefin is polyethylene or a copolymer of ethylene and propylene. 15. A composition of matter characterized by organic material normally subject to oxidative deterioration and a stabilizing amount of a compound having the structural formulaEMI20.1 in which each RÚ independently is alkyl having up to about 8 carbon atoms including a tertiary carbon atom directly linked to the phenolic ring on which that R1 is a substituent, each Rê independently is H or alkyl having up to about 8 carbon atoms, and each X independently is a divalent hydrocarbon radical containing up to about 12 carbon atoms including from 1 to about 10 carbon atoms forming the shortest chain linking the adjacentEMI20.2 andEMI20.3 radicals in said compound. 16. Composition of Claim 15 characterized in that each R1 is tertiary butyl and each R2 is tertiary butyl ortho to the hydroxy radical on the phenolic ring on which that R2 is a substituent and X is alkylene or phenyl ene. 17. Composition of Claim 1g characterized in that said organic material is polyolefin. 18. Composition of Claim 17 characterized in that the polyolefin is polyethylene or a copolymer of ethylene and propylene. 19. Composition of Claim 18 characterized in 1Shat x contains 2 or 3 carbon atoms. 20. Composition of Claim 18 characterized in that X is ortho or meta phenylene.

## Description
OXAMIDE DERIVATIVES, THEIR USE IN STABILIZING ORGANIC MATERIALS AND STABILIZED ORGANIC MATERIALS CONTAININGTHE SAID OXAMIDE DERIVATIVES As is known, many compounds have been found useful as stabilizers of organic materials e.gO polymers such as polyolefins against oxidative deterioration.Prominent among such compounds herein also called antioxidants are certain bis alkylhydroxyphenyl alkanoyl compounds such as bis alkylhydroxyphenyl alkanoyloxy all3iminoalkanes in U.S. Patent 3,441,575 issued 29 April 1969 to M. Dexter et al., bis alkylhydroxy phenyl alkanoylamidogalkanes in U.S. Patent 3,584,047 issued 8 June 1971 to M. Dexter et al., N,N bisralkyl hydroxyphenyl alkanoylj hydrazines in U.S. Patent 3,660,438 issued 2 May 1972 to M. Dexter and bis and tris g alkylhydroxyphenylj alkanoyloxyalkylj compounds having a heterocyclic nucleus containing an imidodicarbonyl group in U.S. Patents 3,763,093 issued 2 October 1973 to G.Kletecka et al. and 3,707,542 issued 26 December 1972 to D.H. Steinberg et al Although some of those compounds are effective antioxidants, new methods utilizing other compounds which are more effective are very desirable. It is also known that oxidative deterioration of many organic materials, e.g. polyolefins and particularly highly branched varieties thereof including polymers of propylene, is typically catalyzed catalytically accelerated in the presence of metal ions, e.g. ions of a heavy metal such as copper present in wire and cable commonly insulated with polyolefin or other organic materials, and that many compounds having good antioxidant properties in the absence of such metal ios are much less effective when such ions are present. Hence much attention has been paid to identification of compounds which inhibit such oxidation catalysis.In general and usually herein, such compounds are referred to as metal deactivators. Examples thereof are described in Stabilization of Polypropylene by R. H. Hansen et al.,Poly. Eng. Sci. 5, 223 1965 , New Antioxidant Metal Deactivator System for Polyolefins Used in Wire and Cable Applications by A. DiBattista et al., Soc. Plast. Eng., Tech.Pap. 21, 280 1975 and articles cited therein. Representative of such compounds are oxamide, oxanilide and oxalic acid benzylidene dihydrazide commonly called OABH which is among those most widely used commercially. Typically, however, the compounds most effective as metal deactivators are not highly effective in stabilizing organic materials against the oxidative deterioration that occurs in the absence of metal ions. Ideally, for stabilization of organic materials in the presence of metal ions, a compound would be bifunction al , i.e. effective as both antioxidant and metal deactivator.See Synthesis and Evaluation of New Stabilizers for Polyethylene Insulation by R. L. Hartless et al., Amer. Chem.Soc., Div. of Org. Coatings and Plastics Chem., Preprints 2 , No. 2 Sept. 1974 which suggests such use of several compounds including the condensation product of 3,5 di tertbutyl 4 hydroxybenzaldehyde with oxalyl dihydrazide, i.e.,OABH having 4 hydroxy and 3,5 di tert butyl substituents on each phenyl ring. Unfortunately, that compound suggested by Hartless et al. isn t notably effective, and extensive efforts to provide a more effective bifunctional compound by altering substituents on compounds of that general type have been generally disappointing. As observed in the article by Hartless rt al., tlt would be interesting to speculate on the chemical L fect of substituent alterations but unequivocal conclusions ore precluded for several reasons.Physical differences sol atilltyX diffusion rates, particle sizes, etc. between the compounds may be more important than chemical differences. This invention also relates to a method for stabilizing organic material against oxidative deterior ation by incorporating a stabilizing amount of a compound of the above formula in an organic material normally sub ject to said deterioriation and to compositions compris ing said organic materials and a stabilizing amount of said compound. Organic materials, especially polyolefins, particularly polyethylene and copolymers of propylene and ethylene, can be stabilized in accordance with this inven tion. Description of Preferred Embodiments As used herein, polyolefin means a polymer of olefinically most commonly a olefinically unsaturated monomers which can be unsubstituted and or substituted olefinic hydrocarbons. Also as used herein, copolymer of propylene and ethylene means a copolymer of monomers consisting essentially of propylene and ethylene at least about 0.5 and usually between about 1 and about 15 ethylene such as, e.g. random propylene ethylene copolymers containing from about 1 to about 3 ethylene and block propylene ethylene copolymers containing from about 5 to about 15 ethylene. In the foregoing rormula each R1, by including a tertiary carbon atom linked directly i.e. through no other atom s to the phenolic ring on which that R1 is a substituent, is tertiary alkyl e.g. t butyl, t amyl or t octyl .Preferably, R1 is t butyl. Although R2 may be H or alkyl having from 1 to about 8 carbon atoms, it is also desirably alkyl defined as R1 herein, preferab y t butyl, and is also preferably situated ortho to the hydroxy radical on the phenolic ring on which that R2 is a substituent. Each X in the foregoing formula is a divalent radical consisting of hydrogen and from 1 to about 12 carbon atoms. From 1 to about 10 typically not more than about 6 of those carbon atoms are te linking atoms in the shortest chain the chain containing least number of carbon atoms between theEMI3.1 andEMI3.2 ,radicals adjacent that X in the formula.Thus, that chain nsy be all or part of the carbon skeleton of an aliphatic Accordingly, new compounds which are advantageously effective as stabilizers of organic materials against oxidative deterioration are very desirable, and it is also very desirable to provide new compounds which are highly advantageous in deactivation of metal ions which catalyze the oxidative deterioration of such materials. In particular, it is very desirable to provide new compounds which are advantageously useful both for deactivation of metal ions to inhibit such catalysis and for stabilization of organic materials against oxidative deterioration which occurs in the absence of such metal ions.In view of the wide spread use of polymers such as various polyolefins in environments conducive to oxidative deterioration, new compounds which are specifically advantageous for any or all of those purposes in such polymers are especially desirable. Accordingly, it is an object of this invention to provide such compounds. Other objects will be apparent from the following in which percentages are by weight and temperatures are Centigrade except where otherwise noted. Summary of the Invention In accordance with the present invention, the afore mentioned advantages are provided by new compounds having the structural formulaEMI4.1 in which each R1 is independently alkyl having up to about 8 carbon atoms including a tertiary carbon atom directly linked to the phenolic ring on which that R1 is a substituent, eachR2 is independently H or alkyl having up to about 8 carbon atoms, and each X is independently a divalent hydrocarbon radical containing up to about 12 carbon atoms including from from 1 to about 10 carbon atoms forming the shortest chain linking the adjacentEMI4.2 andEMI4.3 radicals in said compound. radical, e.g. an acyclic alkylene CnH2n radical, a nonmajor portion of a cyclic hydrocarbon radical e.g. 2 or 3 consecutive carbon atoms in a phenylene or cyclohexylene ring or a combination thereof. Preferably X contains no olefinic unsaturation, and said chain contains preferably at least 2 carbon atoms and preferably not more than about 5 carbon atoms. Also preferably, each X contains not more than about 6 carbon atoms and thus can be desirably selected from phenylene and alkylene cyclic or acyclic containing up to about 6 carbon atoms. For uses of the compounds of this invention in stabilization of organic materials in the presence of metal ions which catalyze the oxidative deterioration of such materials, and particuarly for stabilization of polyolefins such as polyethylene and propylene ethylene copolymers in the presence of such ions, each X is advantageously not highly branched or otherwise sterically prominent in more than one direction.Thus when X is aliphatic, it preferably contains not more than about 1 carbon atom more than the number of carbon atoms in said shortest linking chain. Also for such uses when X r S aliphatic it is preferably a non tertiary devoid of tertiary carbon atoms radical and, even more desirably, such a radical containing 2 or 3 carbon atoms, i.e. n propylene, isopropylene or, most advantageously for many uses, ethylene.Similarly, when X contains a phenylene radical, it is preferably meta phenylene or, most advantageously for many uses, ortho phenylene. The foregoing describes preferred embodiments of the compounds of this invention. However, other compounds similar to those expressly described herein but differing somewhat structurally therefrom should be considered equivalents thereof to the extent that such differences do not preclude the advantageous properties of the novel compounds disclosed herein.E.g. such equivalent compounds may contain only one or more than two methylene groups in each of the alkylene radicals linking a hydroxyphenyl ring and a carbonyloxy radical therein, there may be one or more side chains e.g. an alkyl substituent on such alkylene radicals, the hydroxy radicals on the phenyl rings may be situated other than para e.g. ortho to the chain linking those rings, R1 and R2 may contain more than about 8 carbon atoms and or car bon branching different from that specifically described herein, X may contain more than about 12 carbon atoms and or the aforesaid shortest linking chain comprised by X may con tain more than about 10 carbon atoms. The compound represented by the foregoing formula when each R1 is tertiary butyl, each R2 is tertiary butyl ortho to the hydroxy radical on the phenolic ring on which that R2 is a substituent, and each X is ethylene, is herein designated N,N bis 2 3 3,5 di t butyl 4 hydroxyphenyl propionyloxylethylloxamide hereinafter BPEO . That compound can be prepared by reacting a lower alkyl e.g. methyl, ethyl or n butyl ester of 3 3,5 di t butyl hydroxyphenyl pro pionic acid with 1 2 of an equimolar amount of N,N bis 2hydroxyethyl oxamide. Preferably the reaction is carried out at a temperature between about 250 and about 2500, and in the presence of a suitable transesterification catalyst such as, e.g. stannous oxalate, dibutyl tin oxide or titanium tetra chloride or tetra C3 C4 alkoxide.Also preferably the reac tion is carried. out above the melting point of the oxamide reactant 172 730 to permit carrying out same without an extraneous reaction solvent. Thus most desirably the reaction is carried out between about 1750 and about 2300, and even more desirably at a temperature of art least about 1850.The prop ironic acid esters used in that reaction and preparations thereof are described in U.S. Patents 3,330,850 issued 2 May 1972 and 3,364,250 issued 16 January 1968 to M. Dexter et al. Similar esters containing only one or more than two methylene groups in the alkylene radical linking the hydroxyphenyl ring and carbonyloxy radical therein can be prepared as described by V. V. Ershov et al. in Izv. Akad. Nauk. SSSR,Ser. Khim 7, 1301 1965 . N,N bis 2 hydroxyethyl oxamide can be prepared as described by A. P. Phillips in J. Amer. 2hem Soc 73, 5557 1951 and W. H. Rauscher in J. Amer. Chem. Soc. 70, 438 1948 , i.e., by reacting ethanolamine with dimethyl or diethyl oxalate. Alternatively, BPEO can be made by reacting N,N bis 2 hydroxyethyl oxamide with 3 3,5 di t butyl 4 hydroxy phenyl propionic acid, which can be prepared from the aforesaid esters by conventional hydrolysis, or with the anhydride of that acid. In another preparation of BPE0, that same acid can be converted to a corresponding acid halide by reaction with SOC12 or SOBr2 in a suitable solvent e.g.hexane and then reacted with N,N bis 2 hydroxyethyl oxamide. Compounds of this invention in which R1 and or R2 are other than t butyl can be made by analogous procedures using differently alkylated phenols. Compounds in which X is other than ethylene can be made by analogous procedures in which the N,N bis 2 hydroxyethyl oxamide is replaced with a different N,N bis hydroxyhydrocarbyl oxamide in which each hydrocarbyl radical is X as defined herein. Such oxamides can be made by reacting dimethyl or diethyl oxalate with the appropriate aminophenol, cycloalkanolamine or alkanolamine. In another preparation of compounds of this invention, a suitably alkylated hydroxyphenylalkanoic acid is converted to its chloride and then reacted with an appropriate nitro alcohol to obtain the corresponding nitro hydrocarbyl ester which is reduced to the corresponding amine and then reacted with oxalyl chloride. The organic materials which can be stabilized by compounds of this invention include polyolefins which can be homopolymers of unsubstituted olefinic hydrocarbons such as, e.g. ethylene, propylene, l butylene, 1,3 butadiene and styrene, homopolymers of unsubstituted olefinic hydrocarbons such as, e.g. vinyl halides such as vinyl chloride and esters such as acetate, vinyl alcohols, acrylonitrile and methacrylonitrile, or copolymers of two or more of such substituted and or unsubstituted olefinic hydrocarbons. Also included are condensation polymers such as, e.g. polyalkylene oxides, polyurethanes, polycarbonates, polyesters such as polyethylene terephthalates and polyamides such as polyhexamethylene adipamide and polycaprolactam.Other organic materials which can be stabilized by this invention include lubricating oils, e.g. of the aliphatic ester type such as di 2 ethylhexyl azelate and pentaerythritol tetracaprolate, animal and vegetable derived oils such as linseed oil, fat, tallow, lard, peanut oil, cod liver oil, castor oil, palm oil, corn oil and cottonseed oil, fatty acids such as soaps, and other hydrocarbon materials such as gasoline, mineral oil, fuel oil, dryin oil, cutting fluids and waxes. In general, one or a mixture of the compounds of this invention is employed in a concentration between about 0.005 and about 5 of the organic material to be stabilized, although more or less can be used if desired. In many such organic materials., including particularly polyolefins, it is typically preferred to use such compounds in a concentration between about 0.01 and about 2 . In polymers of unsubstituted olefinic hydrocarbons such as, e.g. polyethylene or a copolymer of ethylene and propylene, it is generally most advantageous to use between about 0.5 and about 1 . For best results, such compounds should be generally dispersed substantially uniformly throughout the material to be stabilized. Any suitable dispersion technique e.g. melt blending can be used.If desired, and in some cases very advantageously, such compounds can be employed in combination with other stabilizers, e.g. dilauryl or distearyl ss thiodipro pionate, antiozonants, thermal stabilizers, ultraviolet light absorbers and or with coloring materials, dyes, pigments, metal chelating agents, etc. The following examples are illustrative only and do not imply any limitations on the scope Ïf this invention. EXAMPLE I 3 3, 5 di t butyl 4 hydroxyphenyl propionic acid 5.6 g 0.02 mole and thionyl chloride 5 g 0.04 mole are xefluxed in 50 ml heptane for 20 hrs. The resulting solution iss concentrated, N,N bis 2 hydroxyethyl oxamide 1.8 g 0.01 mole and 50 ml dry toluene are added and refluxing is con aria other 24 hrs.Cooling precipitates a white solid irhih, thflen recrystallized from ethanol, has a m.p. of 134 36C and analytical data infrared and nuclear magnetic resonance spectra consistent with that expected for N,N bis E2 E3 3,5 di t butyl 4 hydroxyphenyl propionyloxyJethyluoxamide BPEO . Yield was 4.8 g 69 . Found C, 68.16 H, 8.96 N, 4.38 theoretical C, 68.93 H, 8.68 N, 4.02 . EXAMPLE II When Example I is repeated except that 2.6 g 0.01 mole of o,o bis hydroxy oxanilide is the oxamide reactant, there is produced 5.5 g 69 yield of a solid having a m.p.of 187 910 and analytical data consistent with that expected for oZo bis 3 3,5 di t butyl 4 hydroxyphenyl propionylOxy oxanilide hereinafter OBPO . EXAMPLE III When Example I is repeated except that 2.0 g 0.01 mole of N,N bis 2 hydroxypropyl oxamide is the oxamide reactant, there is produced 6.0 g 83 yield of a solid having a m.p. of 124 28 and analytical data consistent with that expected for N,N bis 2 3 3,5 di t butyl 4 hydroxyphenyll propionyloxy propyl oxamide hereinafter B2PO . EXAMPLE IV 3 3,5 di t butyl 4 hydroxyphenyl propionic acid 5.6 g 0.02 mole and thionyl chloride 5 g 0.04 mole are refluxed in 50 ml heptane for 5 hrs. The resulting solution is concentrated and m nitrophenol 2.8 g 0.02 mole and 50 ml dry toluene are added. After refluxing another 20 hrs, the solvent is evaporated and the residue is recrystallized from 100 ml ethanol. 4.0 g. of the resulting solid is reduced in 100 ml methanol in the presence of 5 Pd on C in H2.When uptake ceases, the catalyst is separated by filtration and the solvent is evaporated. The residue is treated with oxalyl chloride 0.63 g 0.05 mole in 75 ml dry toluene.The solution is refluxed for 5 hrs and then concentrated.The residue is recrystallized from 25 ml toluene, providing a solid having a m.p. of 113 170 and analytical data consistent with that expected for m,m bis 3 3,5 di t butyl 4 hydroxy phenyl propionyloxyloxanilide hereinafter MBPO . Yield was 2.1 g 53X . EXAMPLE V When Example I is repeated except that 2.0 g 0.01 mole of N,N bis 3 hydroxypropyl oxamide is the oxamide re actant, there is produced 6.7 g 92 yield of a solid having a m.p. of 119 22 and analytical data consistent with that expected for N,N bis 3 E3 3,5 di t butyl 4 hydroxyphenyl propionyloxy propyl oxamide hereinafter B3PO . EXAMPLE VI When Example IV is repeated except that 2.8 g 0.02 mole of p nitrophenol is substituted for the m nitrophenol, there is produced 2.2 g 55S yield of a solid having a m.p. of 184 880 and analytical data consistent with that expected for p,p bisE3 3,5 di t butyl 4 hydroxyphenyl propionylOxy oxanilide hereinafter PBPO . EXAMPLE VII When Example I is repeated except that 2.6 g 0.01 mole of N,N bis 5 hydroxyamyl oxamide is the oxamide reac tant, there is produced 4.0 g 51 yield of a solid having a m.p. of 132 350 and analytical data consistent with that expected for N,N bis5 E3 3,5 di t buty1 4 hydroxypheny1 propionyloxy amyl oxamide hereinafter BPAO . EXAMPLE VIII When Example I is repeated except that 2.2 g 0.01 mole of N,N bis 2 hydroxy 1,1 dimethylethyl oxamide is the oxamide reactant, there is produced 3.6 g 48 yield of a solid having a m.p. of 156 59 and analytical data consistent with that expected for N,N bis 2 3 3,5 di t buty1 4 hy droxyphenyl propionyloxy l,l dimethylethyl oxamide herein after BPDEO . Examples IX XIV describe tests carried out to e valuate the compounds of this invention as stabilizers of or sonic materials against oxidative degradation. Since organic materials normally oxidize slowly at ambient temperatures, ven in the absence of antioxidant compounds, the testing of 44uch compounds must be conducted at elevated temperatures to utain tesults within a reasonable time. Hence the following tests were conducted at 120 1400. All polymers employed in these tests were unstabilized except as specifically noted herein EXAMPLE IX Compounds prepared in Examples I VIII and other stabilizers were incorporated in a concentration of 0.35 in a wire and cable grade copolymer of propylene and 1 15 ethylene.In the case of each compound, a 40 g sample was made by fusing a dry blended mixture of that compound and the copolymer resin in a Brabender mixer at 180, preheating without mixing for 3 min. and then mixing for 5 min. at a rotor speed of 70 rpm. A 0.6 mm thick sheet was prepared from each composition by compression molding in a picture frame mold at 1800 using molding cycles of 3 min. under no added pressure and then 2 min. at 3400 atm. followed by quench cooling in water. A 0.9 mm thick sandwich was prepared by laminating a 4 cm x 10 cm piece of 40 mesh cm Cu screen between 2 pieces of the sheet in a 1800 mold using molding cycles of 2 min.with no added pressure followed by 1 min. at 2040 atm. and then quench cooling in water. Each sandwich was aged at 1400 in a circulating hot air oven equipped with a rotating sample holder until obvious physical failure evidenced by cracking, crazing and or powdering, with the following results TABLE A Compound Exmployed 0.35 Hours to Failure OBPO Ex. II 1550 BPEO Ex. I 1500 MBPO Ex. IV 1375 B2PO Ex. III 1300 B3PO Ex. V 1125 PBPO Ex. VI 1025 BPAO Ex. VII 888 Goodrite 31251 625 Irganox 10242 525 BPDEO Ex. VIII 500 BPO3 412 BPEO thio oxamide analog4 72 BE05 48 BPEO oxalate isomer6 48 None 24 B. F. Goodrich Co. product 2,2 ,2 tris 3 3,5 di t butyl 4 hydroxyphenyl propionyloxyethyl isocyanu rate. 2Ciba Geigy Corp. product N,N bisC3 3,5 di t butyl 4 hydroxyphenyl propionyl hydrazine. 3N,N bisE3 3,5 di t butyl 4 hydroxyphenyl propyl oxamide. 4 4N,N bis 2 3 3,5 di t butyl 4 hydroxyphenyl propionyl oxy ethyl thio oxamide. 5N,N bis 2 3,5 di t butyl 4 hydroxybenzyloxy ethyl oxamide. 6Bis 2 3 3,5 di t butyl 4 hydroxyphenyl propionamido3 ethyl oxalate. EXAMPLE X Various concentrations of BPEO Ex. I were evaluated for stabilization of communications cable primary insula tion in comparison with a standard concentration of a commercially employed combination of Irganox 1024 and OABH. In a first set of tests simulating aging in unfilled air core cable, Cu screen containing samples of a propylene ethylene copolymer were prepared and aged as described in Example IX.In a second set simulating aging in filled cable, duplicate sandwiches were dipped in a standard petroleum jelly cable filler compound Witco 13C for 1 min. at 115 20 , aged at 70 for 10 days, wiped clean and then aged as described hereinbefore but at 1200.Results were as follows TABLE BCompound s Hours to FailureEmployed Undipped Samples Dipped Samples 0.25 Irganox 1024 340 370 and 0.1 OABH D U5S BPEO 140 125 0.10 BPEO 360 270 0.15 3PEO 700 450 0.20 BPEO 1090 630 1310 750 0.30 .3PE0 1480 980 TABLE B continuedCompound s Hours to FailureEmployed Undipped Samples Dipped Samples 0.35 BPEO 1660 980 0.40 BPEO 1760 1120 0.45 BPEO 1860 1200 0.50 BPEO 1900 1360 EXAMPLE XI Compounds prepared in Examples I VIII and other stabilizers were incorporated in a concentration of 0.25 together with 0.1 OABH in a propylene ethylene copolymer, and sandwiches were made of the resulting compositions as described in Example IX.The effectiveness of each compound was evaluated as described for undipped samples in ExampleX 1400 hot air oven with the following results TABLE CCompound Employed 0.25 together with 0.1 OABH Hours to FailureOBPO Ex. II 1032Irganox 10101 972MBPO Ex. IV 864Goodrite 3125 831BPEO Ex. I 814B2PO Ex. III 792B3PO Ex. V 684PBPO Ex. VI 684BPDEO Ex. VIII 546BPAO Ex. VII 480Irganox 1024 430BPEO oxalate isomer BPEO thio oxamide analog3 48 BEO4 48 Ciba Geigy Corp. product tetrakis methylene 3 3,5 di t butyl 4 hydroxyphenyl propicnyloxy methane. 2, 3, 4See Table A. EXAMPLE XII BPEO Ex. I was evaluated for stabilization of high density polyethylene in comparison with other compounds effective for that purpose. Samples for these tests were prepared using pellets of a conventional wire and cable grade high density polyethylene duPont Alathon 5496 in a Braben der mixer at 1800. After addition of 0.1 of an antioxidant compound and 0.1 of a metal deactivator 0.2 when the same compound is used as both based on the polymer weight, the molten polymer was mixed for 5 min. at a rotor speed of 70 rpm. Cu screen containing sandwiches were prepared as de scribed in Example IX except that 32 mesh cm Cu screen was used. Aging was carried out as in Example X except that both dipped and undipped samples were aged at 1200.Results were as follows TABLE D Hours to Failure Antioxidant Metal Deactivator Undipped Dipped Compound 0.1 0.1 Samples Samples BPEO BPEO 2500 1700 Irganox 1024 Irganox 1024 2320 1700 Irganox 1010 Irganox 1010 840 670 Irganox 1010 BPEO 2530 1190 Irganox 1024 BPEO 2410 1400 Irganox 1010 Irganox 1024 2340 1120 Irganox 1010 OABH 1800 1200 BPEO OABH 1450 1010 Irganox 1024 OABH 1310 990 EXAMPLE XIII Compounds prepared in Examples I VIII and other compounds having antioxidant properties were incorporated in a conventional general purpose molding grade block copclymer of approximately 90 propylene and 10 methylene. In these tests, 40 g. samples were prepared by dry mixing the powdered copolymer with 0.2 of the antioxidant compound based on the copolymer weight, preheating the mixture for 3 min. in a Bra bender mixer at 1800 and then mixing for 5 min. at a rotor Pced D 70 rpm. A 0.9 mm thick sheet was prepared from each somposltion by compression molding at 1800 in a picture frame o loiding cycles were 3 min. at no added pressure and then 2 min. at 3400 atm. followed by quench cooling in water.A 2.5 cm x 5.5 cm sample was cut from each molding sheet and aged in a circulating hot air oven at 1400 with the following results TABLE EAntioxidant Compound 0.2 Hours to FailureOBPO Ex. II 1740MBPO Ex. IV 1728BPEO Ex. I 1692Irganox 1010 1640B3PO Ex. V 1608B2PO Ex. III 1584Goodrite 3125 1536BPAO Ex. VII 1464BPEO thio oxamide analog 1320BPDEO Ex. VIII 1176PBPO Ex. VI 1152BPEO glycine isomer2 1152Irganox 10353 1104BPEO dihydrizide variation4 984Irganox 1024 912BPEO isomer homolog5 864BPEO oxalate isomer6 96None 24 1,6See Table A. 2N,N oxalylbis glycine 3 3,5 di t butyl 4 hydroxy phenyl propyl ester . 3Ciba Geigy Corp. product bFsC2 C3 3,5 di t butyl 4 hydroxyphenyl propionyloxy3ethyl3sulfide. 4N,N bIsE2 3 3,5 dI t butyl 4 hydroxyphenyl pro pionyloxy ethyl oxalyl dihydrazide. 5N,N oxalylbisE alanineE3 3,5 di t butyl 4 hydroxy phenyl propyl ester . EXAMPLE XIV Compounds prepared in Examples I VIII were inc or porated in a conventional general purpose molding grade homcpolymer of propylene Exxon E 115 . Tests were carried out using the compounds in two ways, i.e., as the sole antioxidant in a concentration of 0.2 , and as an antioxidant in a concentration of 0.1 together with 0.25 of antioxidant synergist dilaurylthiodipropionate. All concentrations were based on the weight of polymer employed. Samples were prepared by combining the homopolymer and antioxidant compound s in a Brabender mixer, heating at 1800 without mixing for 3 min. and then with mixing for 5 min. at a rotor speed of 50 rpm.A 0.9 mm thick sheet was prepared from each composition by compression molding at 1800 in a picture frame mold with molding cycles of 3 min. at no added pressure, 2 min. at 4080 atm. and 3 4 min. cooling in the mold under pressure. 2.5 cm x 5.5 cm samples cut from the resulting sheets were aged in a circulating hot air oven at 1400 with the following results TABLE F Hours to Failure 0.2 0.1 0.25 Antioxidant Compound No Synergist Synergist IncludedBPAO Ex. VII 792 11101B2PO Ex. III 480 650B3PO Ex. V 430 815BPDEO Ex. VIII 185 835BPEO Ex. I 175 250PBPO Ex. VI 120 290MBPO Ex. IV 120 215OBPO Ex. II 50 290None 24 1Sti11 running with no sign of imminent failure. From the foregoing data, it is apparent that compounds of this invention are advantageously useful in stabilization of organic materials such as polyolefins against oxidative deterioration in the presence of a metal which catalyzes such deterioration, and also advantageously useful or stabilization of organic materials in the absence of such azmetal. It is particularly apparent that in the presence of such a metal, compounds of this invention provide very signi flcant stabilization advantages without use of any other sta bilizer and that such advantages are surprisingly great, es pecfl y Sn view of the much less attractive results provided by alternate use of other compounds of only modestly different structure.