# Preparation of a mixture of polycyclic aromatic polycarboxylic acids soluble in acetone and in water, and mixture obtained thereby.

## Abstract
A process for preparing a mixture of polycyclic aromatic polycarboxylic acids that is substantially soluble in acetone and substantially soluble in water which comprises subject ing a slurry containing coal to reaction with aqueous nitric acid in an atmosphere containing molecular oxygen, mechan ically separating the solids in the resulting slurry, separating nitric acid and water from the resulting filtrate and then extracting the remainder of said filtrate with a polar solvent to obtain said mixture of polycyclic aromatic polycarboxylic acids substantially soluble in acetone and substantially solu ble in water.

## Claims
We claim 1. A process for converting a carbonaceous material to a mixture of polycyclic aromatic polycarboxylic acids that is substantially soluble in acetone and substantially soluble in water which comprises subjecting a slurry containing coal to reaction with aqueous nitric acid in an atmosphere containing molecular oxygen, mechanically separating the solids in the resulting slurry, separating nitric acid and water from the resulting filtrate and then extracting the remainder of said filtrate with a polar solvent to obtain said mixture of polycyclic aromatic polycarboxylic acids. 2. The process of claim 1 wherein said polar solvent is acetone. 3. The process of claim 1 wherein the nitric acid has a concentration of about 5 to about 90 per cent and the reaction is carried out at a temperature of about 150 to about 2000C. and a pressure of molecular oxygen of about 14.7 to about 1470 pounds per square inch gauge for about 0.5 to about 15 hours. 4. The process of claim 1 wherein the nitric acid has a concentration of about 10 to about 70 per cent and the reaction is carried out at a temperature of about 500 to about 1200C. and a pressure of molecular oxygen of about 73.5 to about 735 pounds per square inch gauge for about two to about six hours. 5. The process of claim 1 wherein the mechanical separation is effected by filtration. 6. The process of claim 1 wherein the separation of nitric acid and water from the filtrate is effected by distillation. 7. The process of claim 1 wherein the coal is lignite. 8. A mixture of polycyclic aromatic polycarboxylic acids substantially soluble in acetone and substantially soluble in water resulting from the process of of claim 1.

## Description
PROCESS FOR PREPARING ORGANIC ACIDS BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION 1. Field of the Invention This invention relates to a process for preparing a mixture of polycyclic aromatic polycarboxylic acids that is substantially soluble in acetone and substantially soluble in water which comprises subjecting a slurry containing coal to reaction with aqueous nitric acid in an atmosphere containing molecular oxygen, mechanically separating the solids in the resulting slurry, separating nitric acid and water from the resulting filtrate and then extracting the remainder of said filtrate with a polar solvent to obtain said mixture of polycyclic aromatic polycarboxylic acids substantially soluble in acetone and substantially soluble in water. This application is a continuation in part of our U.SPatent Application Serial No. 814,217, entitled Organic Acids and Process for Preparing Same, filed July 5, 1977, which in turn is a continuation in part of our U.S. Patent ApplicationSerial No. 696,752, also entitled Organic Acids and Process for Preparing Same, filed June 16, 1976. 2. Description of the Prior Art In our U.S. Patent Application Serial No. 814,217, entitled Organic Acids and Process for Preparing Same, filedJuly 5, 1977, which application is incorporated herein by reference, we disclosed a process for preparing a mixture of polycyclic aromatic polycarboxylic acids that is substantially soluble in acetone and substantially soluble in water which involved subjecting a slurry containing coal to reaction with aqueous nitric acid, mechanically separating the solids in the resulting slurry, separating nitric acid and water from the resulting filtrate and then extracting the remainder of said filtrate with a polar solvent to obtain a said mixture of polycyclic aromatic polycarboxylic acids substantially soluble in acetone and substantially soluble in water. We have now found, unexpectedly, that we can greatly increase the amount of acetone soluble, water soluble polycyclic aromatic polycarboxylic acids obtained in the process disclosed and claimed in said U.S. Patent Application SerialNo. 814,216 if we carry out the nitric acid reaction therein in an atmosphere containing molecular oxygen. The individual comppnents of the acetone soluble, water soluble polycyclic aromatic polycarboxylic acids obtained herein are believed to be composed of condensed and or non condensed benzene rings, with an average number of benzene rings in the individual molecules ranging from one to about three, but generally from one to two. On the average, the number of carboxyl groups carried by the individual molecules are believed to range from about two to about eight, generally from about two to about five, and the average number of nitro groups from 0 to about four, generally from 0 to about two.The average molecular weight of the mixture is believed to range from about 200 to about 500, generally from about 300 to about 400, and the average neutral equivalent will range from about 50 to about 200, generally from about 70 to about 120. A typical analysis of the desired mixture is defined below in Table I in approximate amounts. TABLE I Weight Per Cent Broad Range General Range Carbon 35 to 60 37 to 48 Hydrogen 1 to 5 3 to 4 Nitrogen 1 to 6 4 to 5 Oxygen 35 to 60 40 to 55 Sulfur 0.1 to 0.4 0 .1 to 0.3 Ash 0.1 to 5 0.1 to 2 In a preferred procedure herein there is introduced into a reactor an aqueous solution of nitric acid and a carbonaceous material. The nitric acid can have a concentration of about five to about 90 per cent, but preferably will be in the range of about 10 to about 70 per cent. The carbonaceous material is preferably a solid in the form of a slurry, for example, an aqueous slurry containing the carbonaceous material in particulate form and from about 50 to about 90 weight per cent of water. The solid carbonaceous material that can be used herein can have the following composition on a moisture free basis TABLE II Weight Per Cent Broad Range Preferred Range Carbon 45 95 60 92 Hydrogen 2.5 7 4 6 Oxygen 2.0 45 3 25 Nitrogen 0.75 2.5 0.75 2.5 Sulfur 0.3 10 0.5 6 The carbon and hydrogen content of the carbonaceous material will reside primarily in multi ring aromatic compounds condensed and or uncondensed , heterocyclic compounds1 etc. Oxygen and nitrogen are believed to be present primarily in chemical combination. Some of the sulfur is believed to be present in chemical combination with the aromatic compounds and some in chemical combination with inorganic elements associated therewith, for example, iron and calcium. In addition to the above the solid carbonaceous material being treated herein will also contain solid, primarily inorganic compounds which will not be converted to the desired organic mixture claimed herein, which are termed ash, and are composed chiefly of compounds of silicon, aluminum, iron and calcium, with smaller amounts of compounds of magnesium, titanium, sodium and potassium. The ash content of the carbonaceous material treated herein will amount to less than about 50 weight per cent, based on the moisture free carbonaceous material, but, in general, will amount to about OO1 to about 30 weight per cent, usually about 0.5 to about 20 weight per cent. nthracitic, bituminous and subbituminous coal, lignitic materiale, and other type of coal products referred to in ASTN D 388 are exemplary of the solid carbonaceous materials which can be treated in accordance with the process defined herein to produce the claimed organic mixture. Some of these carbonaceous materials in their raw state will contain relatively large amounts of water. These can be dried prior to use herein. The carbonaceous material, prior to use, is preferably ground in a suitable attrition machine, such as a hammermill, to a size such that at least about 50 per cent of the carbonaceous material will pass through a 40 mesh U.S.Series sieve. As noted, the carbonaceous material is slurried in a suitable carrier, preferably water, prior to reaction with nitric acid. If desired, the carbonaceous material can be treated, prior to reaction herein, using any conventional means, to remove therefrom any materials forming a part thereof that will not be converted in reaction with nitric acid herein. The reactant mixture in the reactor is stirred while being maintained at a temperature of about 150 to about 2000C., preferably about 50 to about 1200C., and a molecular oxygen pressure of about 14.7 to about 1470 pounds per square inch gauge about one to about 100 kilograms per square centimeter , preferably about 73 . 5 to about 735 pounds per square inch gauge about five to about 50 kilograms per square centimeter for about 0.5 to about 15 hours, preferably about two to about six hours.In order to obtain the desired mixture herein without losing appreciable amounts of carboxyl groups on the acids that are formed during the oxidation, and to obtain the desired acids in high yields in the reactor, it is absolutely critical that the reaction conditions therein, namely nitric acid concentration, temperature, pressure of molecular oxygen and reaction time, be so correlated to minimize and, preferably, to avoid decarboxylation Gaseous products, such as nitrogen oxides, if any, can be removed from the reaction zone. The reaction product is removed from the reactor in any convenient manner. We have found that the reaction product is soluble in, or reactable with, sodium hydroxide. At this point it is necessary to separate the oxidized product from the water and nitric acid associated therewith. This separation must be accomplished in a manner so that the car boxyl groups are not removed from the acid product. Distilla tion for the removal of water will not suffice, because under the conditions required for such separation, a significant loss of carboxyl groups would occur. Accordingly, we have found that a mechanical separation will suffice. The reaction product is therefore led to a first separator, which can be, for example, a filter or a centrifuge. The solids that are recovered in the first separator, also soluble in sodium hydroxide, are led to a second separator wherein they are subjected to extraction with acetone that is introduced therein. Such separation can be carried out at a temperature of about 200 to about 600C., preferably about 250 to about 500C., and a pressure of about atmospheric to about 500 pounds per square inch gauge about atmospheric to about 35 kilograms per square centimeter , preferably about atmospheric to about 100 pounds per square inch gauge about atmospheric to about seven kilograms per square centimeter .The solid material, insoluble in acetone, is removed from the second separator by one line and the acetone solution of the acid mixture by another line. The acetone solution can then be led to a drier or evaporator wherein acetone is separated therefrom by one line and an acetone soluble, water insoluble polyaromatic, polycarboxylic acid mixture is recovered by another line. As before, the acid mixture in the drier can be treated by so correlating the conditions therein to remove acetone therefrom in such manner so as to minimize and, preferably, avoid, decarboxylation.The temperature can be in the range of about 100 to about 600C., preferably about 200 to about 50 C., the pressure about 10 millimeters of mercury to about atmospheric, preferably about 30 millimeters of mercury to about atmospheric, for about 0.5 to about 24 hours, preferably about one to about five hours. The filtrate obtained in the first separator is removed therefrom and in all cases will contain water, nitric acid and most of the inorganic material ash that was present in the carbonaceous charge. Additionally, it contains the desired acetone soluble, water soluble organic acids desired herein. Separation of the filtrate into its component parts can be effected as follows. It can be passed to a distillation tower maintained at a temperature of about 500 to about 1000C., preferably about 700 to about 900 C. and a pressure of about 10 millimeters of mercury to about atmospheric, preferably about 30 millimeters of mercury to about atmospheric. Under these conditions nitric acid and water are removed from the distillation tower by one line and solids by another line. The solids are led to a third separator where they are subjected to extraction with acetone introduced therein. The conditions in the third separator are similar to those used in the second separator.A mixture of the acetone soluble, watersoluble organic acids desired herein is removed from the third separator by one line and substantially all of the inorganic material that was present in the carbonaceous charge by another line. Several runs were carried out in which a North DakotaLignite analyzing as follows, on a substantially moisturefree basis, was subjected to oxidation 65.03 weight per cent carbon, 4.0 weight per cent hydrogen, 27.0 weight per cent oxygen, 0.92 weight per cent sulfur, 0.42 weight per cent nitrogen and 0.04 weight per cent moisture. The ash was further analyzed and found to contain 43 weight per cent oxygen, 7.8 weight per cent sulfur and the remainder metals.In each of Runs Nos. 1, 2 and 3, 70 per cent aqueous nitric acid was gradually added over a period of two hours to a stirred slurry maintained at 700C. containing 800 grams of powdered lignite defined above corresponding to 540 grams of moisture free feed and 600 grams of water. In each of these runs the pressure in the closed reactor at the beginning was atmospheric and was permitted to rise during the course of the reaction to its autogeneous pressure. In Run No. 4, otherwise similar to Runs Nos. 1, 2 and 3, molecular oxygen was also continuously introduced into the reactor to maintain therein a pressure of 500 pounds per square inch gauge 34 kilograms per square centimeter over the course of the reaction At the end of the reaction period the product slurry was withdrawn from the reaction zone and filtered to obtain a solids fraction and a filtrate.The solids were extracted with acetone at atmospheric temperature and pressure. The acetone solution was then subjected to evaporation at atmospheric temperature and pressure to obtain the desired mixture herein. The acetone insoluble portion was found to be soluble in sodium hydroxide and to comprise organic acids of a relatively higher molecular weight than the acetone soluble portion. The work up of the filtrate was carried out as follows.Initially the filtrate was subjected to distillation to separate unreacted nitric acid and water therefrom. The remaining solids were subjected to extraction with acetone at atmospheric temperature and atmospheric pressure. The acetone solution was dried to remove acetone therefrom, resulting in the recovery of small amounts of the acetone soluble, watersoluble organic acids substantially completely soluble in sodium hydroxide. The residue was mainly ash. The data obtained are summarized below in Table III. TABLE III Weight Distribution of Polycyclic Aromatic Polycarboxylic Acide Total Acetone Insoluble Acetone Soluble, Acetone Soluble Total Aromatic Nitric Acid Water Insoluble, Water Insoluble, Water Insoluble, Acide Produced,Run No. Added, Grames Acids, Grams Acids, Grams Acids, Grams Grame 1 600 302.9 142.5 104.0 549.4 2 1200 107.0 156.0 174.0 437.0 3 1800 86.0 109.0 200.0 395.0 4 600 154.7 224.7 192.0 571.4 On a 100 per cent basis TABLE III cont d Total Nitric Acid ConsumedRun No. Grams 1 566.9 2 872.0 3 1050.0 4 453.0 The results obtained above are most unusual.Doubling the amount of nitric acid in Run No. 2 over that used in RunNo. 1 might have led one to expect an increase in the amount of acetone soluble, water soluble acids obtained, since the latter are believed to be a higher oxidation species of two other acids produced therein. Although there was an increase in the amount of acetone soluble, water soluble acids obtained in Run No. 2 over the amount obtained in Run No 1, this was done at the expense of a greatly increased consumption of nitric acid. Further increase in the amount of nitric acid employed in Run No. 3 still further increased the amount of acetone soluble, water soluble acids obtained but, again, at the expense of a still further increase in nitric acid consumption.However, when Run No. 1 was repeated, except that the process was conducted in an atmosphere containing molecular oxygen1 the amount of acetone solublc, water soluble acids obtained was about the same as in Run No. 3 but with less than half the consumption of nitric acid. Although we have stated above that the desired composition is acetone soluble and we have shown the use of acetone as suitable in the process defined herein, this has been done merely as a characterization of the composition and to exemplify one embodiment of our process. Many polar solvents alone, or polar solvents in combination with other solvents, can be used in place of acetone herein. Among the polar solvents, or combination of solvents, that can be used are methanol, ethanol, isopropanol, methyl ethyl ketone, tetrahydrofuran, dioxane, cyclohexanone, tetrahydrofurfuryl alcohol, acetone in combination with methanol, methyl ethyl ketone in combination with methanol, isopropanol or water, tetrahydrofuran in combination with methanol or water, dioxane in combination with methanol or water, etc. Obviously, many modifications and variations of the invention, as hereinabove set forth, can be made without departing from the spirit and scope thereof and, therefore, only such limitations should be imposed as are indicated in the appended claims.