# Ammoxidation of olefins with novel antimonate catalysts.

## Abstract
A catalyst comprising an oxide complex of the general formula Fe The catalysts are useful in the production of nitriles by the vapour phase ammoxidation of olefins, aldehydes and alcohols the vapour phase oxidation of olefins containing not more than three contiguous carbon atoms and the vapour phase oxydehydrogenation of olefins containing four or more contiguous carbon atoms. A particularly preferred catalyst according to the invention has the formula W

## Claims
Claims 1. A catalyst comprising an oxide complex of the following general formula Fe, Bi ,1 20Sbl 100 AaBbCc0x in which A represents Cu, Ce, U, V, Cr, Mn and or Te B represents an alkali metal, alkaline earth metal, Co, Ni, Zn, Cd, Rare earth, Ga, T1 and or Th C represents Mo, W, Nb, Ta, Sn, Ge, Ti, Zr, P, B and or As a is 0 20 b is 0 20 c is 0 20 a b c is greater than 0 and x is a number determined by the oxygen requirements of the other elements present. 2. A catalyst as claimed in claim characterised in thatC represents Mo, W, Nb and or Ta. 3. A catalyst as claimed in claim 1 or claim 2, characterised in that a and or c are greater than 0. 4. A catalyst as claimed in claim 3 characterised in that a and or c are at least 0.01. 5. A catalyst as claimed in any of claims 1 to 4 characterised in that it contains Mo and or W. 6. A catalyst as claimed in any of claims 1 to 5 characterised in that it contains Cu. 7. A catalyst as claimed in any of claims 1 to 6 characterised in that b is greater than 0. 8. An ammoxidation process for producing a nitrile in which an olefin, an aldehyde or an alcohol is contacted together with oxygen and ammonia in the vapour phase with a catlayst at elevated temperature, characterised in that the catalyst is a catalyst as claimed in any of claims 1 to 7. 9. An oxidation process for oxidizing an olefin in which an olefin having no more that three contiguous carbon atoms and oxygen are contacted at elevated temperature and in the vapour phase with a catalyst, characterised in that the catalyst is a catalyst as claimed in any of claims 1 to 7. 10. An oxydehydrogenation process wherein an olefin having four or more contiguous carbon atoms and oxygen are contacted at elevated temperature in the vapour phase with a catlayst, characterised in that the catalyst is a catalyst as claimed in any of claims 1 to 7.

## Description
TITLE Ammoxidation of Olefines with Novel Antimonate Catalysts The present invention relates to a novel catalyst and process for the catalytic vapour phase ammoxidation of olefines to nitriles using antimonate catalysts. U.S. 3,716,496 discloses a catalyst useful for the ammoxidation of olefines to nitriles having the formula Fe10Sb2060Me0.011Te0.055Q0.120O wherein Me is an element selected from the group consisting of V, Mo, and W and Q is an element selected from the group consisting ot Cu, Ag, Be, Mg, Ca, Sr, Ba, Zn, Cd, La, Ce and Al.Netherlands Patent 7,501,472 discloses similar catalysts, these catalysts also containing at least one of P and B. In commercial vapour phase processes for producing acrylonitrile, a liquid reaction product containing acrolein, acrylic acid and acetonitrile as well as acrylonitrile is normally obtainea. It is often dirficult to seperate acrolein, acrylic acid and or acetonitrile from this liquid reaction product, and hence processes yielding these unwanted liquid by products in significant amounts are disadvantageous commercially. Unfortunately, vapour phase ammoxidation processes using promoted Fe Te Sb Ox catalysts do yield these unwanted by products in significant amounts. Furthermore, tellurium in such catalysts tends to volatilize as tellurium oxide, which leads not only to a significant decrease in catalytic activity with time but also to significant pollution problems. It is therefore an object of the present invention to provide a process for the ammoxidation of olefins to nitriles in which the production of acrolein, acrylic acid and acetonitrile is significantly reduced by means of a catalyst not containing tellurium as an essential component. Thus, the present invention therefore provides a novel catalyst which comprises an oxide complex of the following general formula Fel 50Bio 1 20Sbl looAaBbCcOx in which A represents Cu, Ce, U, V, Cr, Mn and or Te B represents alkali metal, alkaline earth metal, Co, Ni, Zn, Cd, a rare earth, Ga, T1 and or Th C represents Mo, W, Nb, Ta, Sn, Ge, Ti, Zr, P, B and or As a is 0 20 b is 0 20 c is 0 20 a b c is greater than 0 and x is a number determined by the oxygen requirements of the other elements present. In addition, the present invention also provides a novel ammoxidation process in which an olefin together with oxygen and ammonia is contacted with a catalyst at elevated temperature, characterised in that the catalyst is a catalyst of the above composition. In accordance with another aspect of the present invention it has also been found that various aldehydes and acids can be ammoxidized with the catalysts according to the invention, and thus the present invention also provides ammoxidation processes of the type described above characterised in that the feed comprises an aldehyde and or alcohol rather than an olefin. Finally it has also been found that the catalysts of the present invention are effective in the oxidation of various olefines to oxygenated compounds and the oxydehydrogenation of various olefines to diolefins. Thus, the present invention provides two additional processes for the oxidation and oxydehydrogenation of olefines in which the olefin to be reacted together with oxygen is contacted with a catalyst characterised in that the catalyst is a catalyst of the formula given above. The novel catalysts of the present invention are particularly useful in the ammoxidation of olefines to nitriles. They can also be used, however, in the ammoxidation of alcohols and aldehydes to nitriles and in the oxidation of olefines to oxygenated compounds and the oxidative dehydrogenation of olefines to diolef ins and aromatics.Ammoxidation A wide variety of different reactants can be ammoxidized according to the present invention to produce nitriles. For example, olefines such as propylene and.isobutylene, alcohols such as t butylalcohol and aldehydes such as acrolein and methacrolein can be readily converted to nitriles according to the present invention. In general, compounds which can be converted to nitriles by the ammoxidation reaction according to the invention include 3 to 9 carbon atom hydrocarbons, which may be unsubstituted or substituted with oxygen or hydroxyl groups. Preferred starting materials are olefines, aldehydes and alcohols containing 3 or 4 carbon atoms. The general ammoxidation process for converting olefins, alcohols and aldehydes to nitriles is well known, and is described, for example, in U.S. Patent No. 3,546,138.In general, the ammoxidation reaction is accomplished by contacting the reactant, oxygen and ammonia with a particular catalyst in the vapour phase. The reaction according to the invention is carried out in the same manner and under the conditions generally set forth in this patent. In a preferred embodiment, the process according to this invention comprises contacting a mixture comprising propylene or isobutylene, ammonia and oxygen with the promoted catalyst of this invention at an elevated temperature and at atmospheric or near atmospheric pressure. Any oxygen source may be employed in this process,For reasons of economy, however, it is preferred that air is employed as the oxygen source. Form a purely technical viewpoint, relatively pure molecular oxygen will give equivalent results. The molar ratio of oxygen to olefin in the feed to the reaction vessel should be in the range of 0.5 1 to 4 1 and a ratio of from 1 1 to 3 1 is preferred. Low molecular weight saturated hydrocarbons do not appear to influence the reaction to an appreciable degree, and these materials can be present consequently, the addition of saturated hydrocarbons to the feed to the reaction is contemplated within the scope of this invention. Similarly, diluents, such as nitrogen and the oxides of carbon, may be present in the reaction mixture without harmful effect. The molar ratio of ammonia to olefin in the feed to the reactor may vary between about 0.05 1 to 5 1.There is no real upper limit for the ammonia olefin ratio, but there is generally no reason to exceed the 5 1 ratio. At ammonia olefin ratios appreciably less than the stoichiometric ratio of 1 1, varying amounts of oxygenated derivatives of the olefin will be formed. Significant amounts of unsaturated aldehydes, as well as nitriles, will be obtained at ammonia olefin ratios substantially below 1 1, i.e., in the range of 0.15 1 to 0.75 1. Above the upper limit of this range, the amount of aldehydes produced rapidly decreases.Within the ammonia olefin range stated, maximum utilisation of ammonia is obtained and this is highly desirable. It is generally possible to recycle any unreacted olefin and unconverted ammonia. Water can also be included in the feed although it is not essential. In some cases, for example, in fixed bed systems, water may improve the selectivity of the reaction and the yield of nitrile. However, reactions not including water in the feed are also within the scope of the present invention. In general, the molar ratio of added water to olefin, when water is added, is in the neighborhood of 01. 1 or higher. Ratios on the order of 1 1 to 3 1 are particularly desirable, but higher ratios may be employed, suitably up to about 10 1. The reaction is carried out at an elevated temperature such as 200 6000C, preferably 400 5000C. The pressure at which the reaction is conducted is also an important parameter, and the reaction should be carried out at about atmospheric or slightly above atmospheric 2 to 3 atmospheres pressure. In general, high pressures, i.e. above 15 atmospheres, are not suitable since higher pressures tend to favour the formation of undesirable by products. The apparent contact time is not critical, and contact times in the range of from 0.1 50 seconds may be employed. The optimal contact time will, of course, vary depending upon the reactant being used, but in general a contact time of from 1 15 seconds is preferred. The ammoxidation reaction according to the invention is carried out in the vapour phase. The process is normally conducted on a continuous basis using either a fixed bed or a fluid bed catalyst. However, a batch operation can be employed. The reaction product passing out of the reactor is normally in the form of a gas. Conventionally, this gaseous reaction product is treated to remove ammonia and then partially condensed either by indirect contact with a cooling medium or direct contact with water to form a liquid phase containing acrylonitrile, acrolein, acrylic acid, hydrogen cyanide and acetonitrile and a vapour phase containing carbon dioxide, carbon monoxide, nitrogen and water. The acrylonitirle is then separated from the liquid phase by a number of different techniques such as, for example, distillation or water extraction distillation.Additional steps can be employed to recover separately acrylic acid and or acrolein from the gross reaction product. In accordance with the present invention, the amount of acrolein, acrylic acid and acetonitrile produced by the ammoxidation reaction according to the invention are significantly reduced. Thus, separation of the acrylonitrile from the remaining components of the crude reaction product is simplified. Further, problems associated with disposal of the unwanted by products, such as water pollution, are greatly reduced.Oxidation As previously indicated, the catalysts according to this invention can also be used in the catalytic oxidation of olefines to various different reaction products. The reactants used in the oxidation to oxygenated compounds are oxygen and an olefin such as propylene, iso butylene and other olefines having up to three contiguous carbon atoms i.e. three carbon atoms arranged in a straight chain . The olefines may be in admixture with parafinic hydrocarbons, such as ethane, propane, butane and pentane for example, a propylene propane mixture may constitute the feed. This makes it possible to use ordinary refinery streams without special preparation. The temperature at which this oxidation is carried out may vary considerably depending opon the catalyst, the particular olefin being oxidized and the correlated conditions of the rate of throughput or contact time and the ratio of olefin to oxygen. In general, when operating at pressures near atmospheric, i.e., O.l.to 10 atmospheres, temperatures in the ranee of 1500C to 6000C may be advantageously employed. However, the process may be conducted at other pressures, and in the case where superatmospheric pressures, e.g., above 10 atmospheres are employed, somewhat lower temperatures are possible. In the case where this process is employed to convert propylene to acrolein, a temperature range of 2000C to 5000C has been found to be optimum at atmospheric pressure. While pressures other than atmospheric may be employed, it is generally preferred to operate at or near atmospheric pressure, since the reaction proceeds well at such pressures and the use of expensive high pressure equipment is avoided, and formation of undesired by products and waste is diminished. The apparent contact time employed in the process is not critical and it may be selected from a broad operable range which may range from 0.1 to 50 seconds. The apparent contact time may be defined as the length of time in seconds which a unit volume of gas measured under the conditions of reaction is in contact with the apparent unit volume of the catalyst. It may be calculated, for example, from the apparent volume of the catalyst bed, the average temperature and pressure of the reactor, and the flow rates of the several components of the reaction mixture. The optimum contact time will, of course, vary depending upon the olefin being treated, but in the case of propylene and isobutylene, the preferred contact time is 0.15 to 15 seconds. A molar ratio of oxygen to olefin of form 0.5 1 to 5 1 generally gives the most satisfactory results. For the conversion of propylene to acrolein, a preferred ratio of oxygen to olefin is from about 1 1 to about 2 1. The oxygen used in the process may be derived from any source however, air is the least expensive source of oxygen and is preferred for that reason. The addition of water to the reaction mixture in oxidation reactions can have a beneficial influence on the conversion and yields of the desired product, especially in fixed bed reactions. The manner in which water affects the reaction is not fully understood. In any event, it is preferred in fixed bed operation to include water in the reaction mixture, and in general a ratio of olefin to water in the reaction mixture of from 1 0.25 to 1 10 will give very satisfactory results while a ratio of 1 0.5 to 1X6 has been found the optimum when coverting propylene to acrolein. Inert diluents such as oxygen and carbon dioxide, may be present in the reaction mixture. Oxydehydrogenation In accordance with the present invention, the promoted catalyst system of the present invention can also be employed in the catalytic oxidative dehydrogenation of olefines to diolefins and aromatic compounds. In this process, the feed stream in vapour form containing the olefin to be dehydrogenated and oxygen is conducted over the promoted catalyst at a comparatively low temperature to obtain the corresponding diolef in. By the term olef in as used herein is meant open chain as well as cyclic olefines. The olefines dehydrogenated according to this invention have at least four and up to about nine non quarternary carbon atoms, of which at least four are arranged in series in a straight chain or ring. The olefines are preferably either normal straight chain or tertiary olefines. Both cis and trans isomers, where they exist, can be dehydrogenated. Among the many olefinic compounds which can be dehydrogenated in this way are butene l butene 2 pentene l pentene 2 pentenes, hexenes, etc. such as 2 methylpentene l, methylbutene l, 3 4 diemthyl pentene 1, 4 methyl pentene 2 heptene l octene l cyclopentene cyclohexene 3 methyl cyclohexene and cycloheptene. Open chain olefines yield diolefins, and, in general, six membered ring olefines yield aromatic ring compounds. The higher molecular weight open chain olefines may cyclize to aromatic ring compounds. The feed stock in addition to the olefin and oxygen may contain one or more paraffinic or naphthenic hydrocarbons having up to about ten carbon atoms, which may be present as impurities in some petroleum hydrocarbon stocks and which may also be dehydrogenated in some cases. The amount of oxygen is preferably within the range of from 0.3 to 4 moles per mole of double bonÅa created.Stoichiometricaily, 0.5 mole of oxygen is required for the dehydrogenation of one mole of a monoolefin to a diolefin.It is preferred to employ an excess of oxygen, e.g. an oxgyen olefin ratio of from 0.6 to 3, in order to ensure a higher yield of diolef in per pass. The oxygen can be supplied as pure or substantially pure oxygen or as air or in the form of hydrogen peroxide. When pure oxygen is used, it may be deisrable to incorporate a diluent in the mixture such as steam, carbon dioxide or nitrogen. The feed stock is preferably catalytically dehydrogenated in the presence of steam, but this is not essentail. Usually, form 0.1 to 6 moles of steam per mole of olefin reactant is employed, but amounts larger than this can be used. The dehydrogenation proceeds at temperatures preferably within the range of from 3000C to 10000C.Optimum yields are obtainable at temperatures within the range from 400 to 5500C. However, since the reaction is exothermic, temperatures in excess of 5500C should not be used, unless means are provided to carry off the heat liberated during the reaction. Due to the exothermic nature of the reaction, the temperature of the gaseous reaction mixture will be higher than the temperature of the feed entering the system by as much as 750C. The temperatures referred to are those of the entering gae feed near the reactor inlet. The preferred reaction pressure is approximately atmospheric, preferably within the range of from about 0.1 to about 5 atmospheres. Only a brief contact time with the catalyst is required for effective dehydrogenation. The apparent contact time with the catalyst can vary from about 0.5 up to about 50 seconds but higher contact times can be used if desired. At these contact times, comparatively small reactors and small amounts of catalyst can be used etfect ively. In carrying out the foregoing processes, any apparatus of the type suitable for carrying out oxidation reactions in the vapour phase may be employed. The processes may be conducted either continuously or intermittently. The catalyst may be a fixed bed employing a large particulate or pelleted catalyst or a fluid bed catalyst may be employed. The catalysts according to the present invention are oxide complexes of iron, bismuth and antimony promoted with various additional elements and are described by the following general formula Fe1 50Bi0.1 20Sb1 100AaBbCc0x wherein A represents Cu, Ce, U, V, Cr, Mn and or Te B represents an alkali metal, alkaline earth metal, Co, Ni, Sn, Cd, rare earth, Ga, T1 and or Th C represents Mo, W, Nb, Ta, Sn, Ge, Ti, Zr , P, B, and or As a is 0 20 b is 0 20 c is 0 20 a b c is greater than 0 and x is a number determined by the oxygen requirements of the other elements present. Of the catalysts according to this general formula those which contain both A and C elements are preferred.Catalysts containing Mo, W, Nb and or Ta are especially preferred. Catalysts in which C is a mixture of Mo and W are most preferred. When the catalysts contain both A and C elements, any amounts of these elements may be present within the broad ranges given in the generic formula above.Preferably however, the amounts of both the A and C elements are such that a and c are at least 0.01. These catalysts can be used either in unsupported form or supported on suitable carriers such as SiO2,A1203, BPO4, SbPO4, SOR2 and Alundum. The catalyst can also be coated on these supports by special techniques known in the art. These catalysts can be prepared by conventional techniques. In this regard, U.S. Patent No. 3,546,138, referred to above, teaches how catalysts of this type can be made. U.S. Patents Nos. 3,461,150 3,325,504 3,933,751 3,435,061 3,431,292 and 3,308,151 also disclose how catalysts of this general type can be made.Examples In order to more thoroughly describe the present invention, the following working examples in which propylene was ammoxidized to acrylonitrile are presented. In these examples, the term yield means moles product formed X 100 moles reactant fedExamples 1 3 50 W0.2Mo1Bi2Cu3Fe12Sb250x 50 SiO2 A catalyst of the above formula was prepared by the following procedure. 96.96 grams Fe N03 3 9H20, 1.08 grams NH4 6 W7 24 6H2 3.53 grams NH4 6Mo7024 4H20 19.40 grams Bi NO3 3 5H20 and 14.50 grams Cu NO3 2 3H20 were individually dissolved in small amounts of water at 600C with stirring. The individual solutions were then added together in the order given above, i.e. the W containing solution was first added to the Fe containing solution, then the Mo solution was added to the Fe W solution, and so forth until an aqueous solution containing Fe, W, Mo,Bi and Cu was obtained. To this salt solution was added 72.87 grams Sb203 which had been slurried in about 400 ml concentrated HNO3 at 60 700C for 1i hours.Sufficient reagent grade NHOH about 150 cc was then added to the mixture to adjust the pH to 2.0 and the mixture was then evaporated to dryness. The dired precipitation was heat treated in air for 3 hours at 2900C and then for 3 mote hours at 4250C. The resultant material was then screened to 20 35 mesh to produce the objective catalyst. 5 c.c.s of this catalyst was charged into a fixedbed reactor, and a feed comprising 1 propylene l.l NH3 10.6 air 4H2 0 was fed to the reactor at elevated temperature.The reaction temperature and the contact time were varied from example to example. The gross reaction product was recovered and analyzed. The results obtained are set forth in the following Table I. TABLE I W0.2Mo1Bi2Cu3Fe12Sb250x 50 Si02 Yield Contact Reaction Unreacted AcryloExample Time sec Temp. C Propylene nitrile 1 3 430 11.8 67.0 2 6 430 5.1 70.8 3 3 460 3.9 73.5 Yield Acro Acrylic Aceto sAN SelExample lein Acid nitrile HCN CO 002 ectivity 1 0.3 1.1 5.5 4.8 9.6 75.9 2 1.8 0.4 7.8 5.5 8.7 74.5 3 0.3 0.4 6.9 4.6 10.5 76.5 As will be noted from the foregoing experiments, acrylonitrile was produced in high yields with good selectivities. Moreover, the amounts of unwanted byproducts acrolein, acrylic acid and acetonitrile were very small. Thus, it will be appreciated that the present invention marks a significant improvment over many known processes for producing acrylonitrile which produce unwanted by products in significant amounts. Examples 4 10 Additional experiments in which proplyene was ammoxidized to acrylonitrile were conducted. These experiments were carried out in the same way as those of Examples 1 to 3 except that the feed consisted of 1.0 propylene l.lNH3 10.6 air 4.O H20, the contact time was 3 seconds and the catalyst used was different.The compositions of the various catalysts used in these experiments as well as the results obtained are set forth in the following Table II. TABLE IIEMI16.1 SEP tb SEP s SEP m SEP Oo tb 4 SEP Fel2sb25cro.2Bi2cu3Molox SEP 460 tb SEP 40 SEP Si02 tb 5 SEP Fe12Sb25Cr02Bi SEP Cu3Mo10x SEP SEP 430 tb SEP 40 SEP SiO2 tb 6 SEP Fe12Sb27W SEP Bi2Cu5Mo1Ox SEP SEP 460 tb SEP 40 SEP SiO2 tb 7 SEP Fe12Sb25W0.2Bi2Cu3Mo30 SEP SEP 460 tb SEP 40 SEP 5102 tb 8 SEP Fe12 SEP Sb25W SEP Mo3Ox SEP SEP 430 tb SEP 40 SEP Si02 tb TABLE II Continued Propylene Conversion ToEMI17.1 tb SEP I SEP s tb SEP rl SEP SEP 0 SEP I SEP tb Q SEP SEP tb a SEP cud SEP O tb e SEP a SEP h tb x SEP kO SEP kq SEP 0 SEP 00 SEP Od SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 tb 0 SEP 0 SEP o SEP 0 tb 4 SEP 12.2 SEP 60.2 SEP 9 SEP 0.5 SEP 1.9 SEP 0.3 SEP 1.2 SEP 23.7 SEP 68.6 tb 5 SEP 16.5 SEP 57.6 SEP o SEP 0.2 SEP 1.9 SEP 0.4 SEP 1.1 SEP 22.2 SEP 69.0 tb 6 SEP 22.1 SEP 43.1 SEP 3.5 SEP 0.2 SEP 2.3 SEP 0.3 SEP 0.4 SEP 28.1 SEP 55.4 tb 7 SEP 47.8 SEP 20.5 SEP 3.7 SEP 0.4 SEP 1.8 SEP 0.3 SEP 6.3 SEP 19.2 SEP 39.3 tb 8 SEP 39.3 SEP 29.2 SEP 0 SEP 1.1 SEP 5.1 SEP 5.1 SEP 9.6 SEP 10.6 SEP 48.2 tb TABLE II ContinuedEMI18.1 tb SEP CA SEP PropyLene SEP Conversion SEP Td tb SEP a SEP s tb SEP X SEP X tb SEP SEP o SEP tn tb X SEP o SEP m SEP Oo SEP SEP 0 SEP rs SEP 1 SEP tb SEP h SEP C SEP SEP SEP rlC1 SEP C SEP SEP C tb SEP r SEP . SEP SEP 1 SEP o SEP C SEP I tb C SEP Ed SEP 0 SEP a SEP 41 SEP a SEP SEP o SEP r SEP 0 SEP tb SEP o SEP Q SEP U SEP o SEP N SEP SEP rl SEP Q SEP Q, SEP 0 tb 0 0 SEP O SEP m SEP oc SEP k SEP M SEP z tb SEP Q SEP X SEP Ez SEP SEP t SEP SEP CLs SEP O SEP O SEP m SEP SEP 5 SEP 0 SEP tb 9 SEP Mn12Sb27W0.2Bi2Cu5Mo1Ox SEP SEP 400 SEP 58.5 SEP 10.8 SEP 30.4 SEP 26.2 tb SEP 40 SEP SiO2 tb 10 SEP Mn12Sb27W0.23i2Cu5M010x SEP SEP 430 SEP 61 1 SEP 8.3 SEP 30.6 SEP 21.4 tb SEP 40 SEP SiO2 tb Useful Liquid Products contains primarily acrylonitrile.