# Watershoes.

## Abstract
Devices which can be attached to a persons feet to enable him to walk on water. Each device comprises a lightweight floatable member 10 with foot attaching means 15 on the upper surface, front valve means 13 on the front lower surface, and rear means 11 on the lower surface to resist backward propulsion.

## Claims
Claims I. A device adapted to be attached to the foot of a person r propulsion on the surface of a body of water,comprising an elongated lightweight floatable member having means on its upper surface to attach to the foot of a person,front means on its lower surface to resist backward propulsion and rear means in the lower surface to resist backward propulsion. 2. A device made in accordance with Claim 1 wherein the said front means comprises a normally vertical member pivotable only in the rearward position by the force of water as it is propelled in the forward direction. 3. The device made in accordance with Claim I wherein said rear means comprises a rearwardly facing pocket. 4. A pair of devices made in accordance with Claim I and adapted to be attached to both feet of a person. 5. X device made in accordance with Claims I in combination with a floatable propelling rod. 6. Two devices made in accordance with Claim 1 and coupled together to form the support for a sailing vessel. 7. It is also possible to equip the waterschoes I0 with flexible fins 20 and stabilisation keels I3 Fig 8 and Fig 9

## Description
Background of IntentionThis invention relates to devices which enable a person to walk, ski or skate on a body of water,as for example,a lake,bay,river, canal,sea or ocean.One object of the present invention is to provide a device which can be worn on each foot of a person and can be used to walk on water.Other object and advantages of this invention will appear from the description and claims which follow,taken together with the appended drawings.The applicant,claims the benefit of the filing date of his prior foreign patent application,namely,Belgium Patent Application 4 4385 filed September 17,1979. Summary of Invention The invention Ihn its most general terms comprises an elongated lightweight body which can float on water and can be formed from a wide variety of water resistant materials such as foamed plastic such as polystryrene foam or polyester foam or naturally occuring water resistant materials which can float in water as for example,cork. On the top surface of the floatable body are means for inserting or attaching the foot of the person. The bottom surface which is immersed in the water has a front means preferably positioned below the toc portion of the foot and a rear means preferably positioned rearward of the heel portion of the foot for resisting rearward propulsion. The front means could coin rise a normally verticallypositioned member which pivots only to the rean. Such means can also be a flap extending across the floatable hody or rearwardly facing pockets,or a combination of flaps and pockets. The rear means ls similar to the front means and s preferably a marge central pocket yhich permits forward cotion but resists rearward motion when filled with water. The rear means can also have a large flap extendin acrose the floatable body. In addition stabilization fins can be provided on the lower surface at each corner and these cah also be prov ided with rearwardly facing pockets to restrain rearward moinn Propulsion is accomplished by manipulating floatable sticks or rods so as to get forward propulsion A preferred form of such propelling stick is an elongated rod having a floating member on the water and a small rudder member below the water In utilizing the invention, the person uses one propelling stick in each hand to obtain initial motion of the floatinhg bodies attached to his feet. The person at no time has his feet immer sed in the water and is thus literally walking on water. In addition to walking the inyention is also suitable for being pulled so as to skate or ski on the water.The. manipulations bij the person utilizing this invention are similar to snow skiing.While the preferred form of the invention for the purpose of walking on the water is to have an elongated floating member to which the foot is.attached,other shapes such as oval or souare can be mused The invention can also be used in combined form to form a catamaran sailing boat or with a pliable mast andsail to form a surf boat. Wheels can also be added with a water propeller. Very little power is needed to pull or propel since each floatable member is quite light as for example, 6 pounds 3 kg in weight. Breef Description of DrawingsFig. I is a side view of one embodiment of this invention where the foot is at rest. Fig. 2 is a rear view. Fig. 3 is a side view as in Fig. 1 but with the device in forward motion. Fig. 4 is a view of a prepelling rod.Fig. 5 is a perspective view of the invention in motion.Fig. 6 is a view of two coupled divices to form the base for a catamaran sailing boat. Fig. 7 is a bottom view of the divice of Fig. I. Specific Example of Invention Referring n ow to Fig. 1 to 5 there is illustrated therein a pair of water resistand,elongated foam plastic floatable bodies 9 and 10 for the left and right foot respectively of the person utilizing the invention. Each floatable body 9 and 10 sits in the water with the upper surface clear of the water so that the feet inserted into the foot supports 14 and I5 do not get wet. he lowest surface of each floatable body 9 and IO has a front restraining means 13 which comprises in this instance a pair of normally vertical but rearwardly pivotable flap members 13 located below the toe portion of the foot,and registering rearward facing pockets I3 a in Stabilizationfins I0a. Rearward of the hell portion of the foot and on the lower surface of the bodS is a pocket II in which the water is allowed to fill when the device is first placed into the water. Ls the person propels the floatable bodies forward in alternate in fashion by means of the propelling rods 16,the front flap members I3 are driven backward. The particular propolling rod I6 illustrated in the drawings has a handle portion I7,a relativery large floating member 18,and a below the surface rudder I9.As illuatrated in Fig. 6 two such divices san be combined together to form the base of a catamaran sail boat.