# A frozen sliced potato product that simulates deep fried potatoes and a method of manufacturing it.

## Abstract
A process for simulating the taste and texture of deep fat fried potatoes has been developed by heating frozen parfried potatoes. Raw potatoes are processed to achieve a composition having specific percentages of potato solids, oil solids and water for frozen distribution which when heated in an oven on a heat transferring apparatus delivers products having a composition, uniform color and crust thickness similar to freshly deep fat fried potatoes.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A frozen starch coated, par fried potato slices comprising 24 to 54 water by weight, 12 to 18 oil solids by weight and 28 to 58 potato solids by weight wherein the potato slices consist of whole potato strips that are to be heated in an oven to simulate deep fat fried potatoes. 2. The potato product of Claim 1 which comprises 45 to 54 water by weight, 13 to 17 oil by weight and 28 to 41 potato solids by weight. 3. The potato product of Claim 1 wherein the potato solids and oil solids total greater than 50 by weight of the potato comestible. 4. The potato product of Claim 3 wherein the oil solids is greater than 14 by weight of the potato comestible. 5. The potato product of Claim 4 wherein the surface layer of the potato has a substantially disrupted starch cellular structure which is acellular in appearance, although starch cell walls are present, and wherein said surface layer has little granular character which precludes a homogeneous appearance. 6. A frozen, starch coated, par fried, sliced potato product having a potato solids to water to oil ratio from 2.6 2.0 1 to 3.1 2.3 1 respectively. 7. The potato product of Claim 6 wherein the potato solids and oil solids total greater than 50 by weight of the potato comestible. 8. The potato product of Claim 7 wherein the oil solids is greater than 14 by weight of the potato comestible. 9. The potato product of Claim 8 wherein the surface layer of the potato has a substantially disrupted starch cellular structure which is acellular in appearance, although starch cell walls are present, and wherein said surface layer has little granular character which precludes a homogeneous appearance. 10. A method of manufacturing a frozen potato sliced product to be heated in an oven to simulate deep fried potatoes in which the potato is partially cooked by frying before freezing characterised in that whole potato strips are starch coated, oil soaked to provide a content in the slices by weight 24 to 5470 water, 12 to 80 dil solids and 28 to 58 potatoe solids, the oil soaked product is then par fried and frozen. AUSTRIA 1. A method of manufacturing a frozen potato sliced product to be heated in an oven to simulate deep fried potatoes in which the potato is partially cooked by frying before freezing characterised in that whole potato strips are starch coated, oil soaked to provide a content in the slices by weight 24 to 54 water, 12 to 82 oil solids and 28 to 58 potato solids, the oil soaked product is then par fried and frozen. 2. A method according to claim 1 in which the oil soaking results in a product comprising 45 to 54 water, 13 to 17 oil and 28 to 41 potato solids. 3. A process according to either of claims 1 and 2 characterised in that the potato solids and oils solids total is greater than 50 by weight of the final product. 4. A method according to claim 3 characterised in that the oil solid is greater than 40 by. weight of the potato product. 5. A method according to any one of claims 1 to 4 characterised in that the application of starch coating and treatment of the potato results in the surface layer of the potato having a substantially disrupted starch cellular structure which is acellular in appearance, although starch cell walls are present and wherein said surface layer has little granular character which precludes a homogeneous appearance. 6. A method according to any one of claims 1 to 5 characterised in that the potato solids to water to oil ratio is from 2.6 2.0 1 to 3.1 2.3 1 respectively.

## Description
SIMULATION OF DEEP FAT FRIED POTATOES DESCRIPTIONTECHNICAL FIELD The invention is in the general field of potato food products and of methods and apparatus for producing them and is particularly concerned with frozen French fries and the like, e.g., shoe string potatoes, as customarily packaged and sold in partially prepared condition to housewives, restaurants, and other consumers for rapid processing to the final product. French fries are presently packaged and sold in frozen, partially prepared condition for reheating in the oven immediately prior to being served.Partially prepared French fries are potatoes that have been washed, peeled, trimmed, sorted, cut, blanched and partially deep fat fried. A busy housewiff usually is not equipped for deep fat frying, especially one who buys the frozen product for convenience. In most instances, the product as purchased is placed in an oven in the frozen state and is heated to a temperature adequate for browning and warming. However, the oven reheated product is by no means the equivalent of a potato that has been completely deep fat fried. This is so because the desirable dehydration of surface areas of the potatoes that took place during the initial frying in deep fat is counteracted during oven reheating by moisture migrating from the center, without the compensating crisping effect of deep fat frying.This tends to make the oven reheated product limp and soggy. Moreover, such oven reheated, partially prepared French fries do not acquire the golden brown color of those completely deep fat fried.Thus, oven reheated frozen French fries of the type commercially available do not have the color, flavor, nor crispness customarily expected of French fries which have been completely deep fat fried, and are generally a disappointment to the purchaser. The two most serious problems encountered in the commercial manufacture of frozen partially prepared French fried potatoes are non uniform color formation and poor textural qualities affecting the palatableness of the oven reheated product. Ideally, upon oven reheating of partially prepared French fries, the potatoes should be golden brown in color for maximum consumer attractiveness. Also, the finished oven reheated product should have a crisp but not hard outer crust surrounding a mealy, white interior having the consistency of a baked potato. Obtaining these ideal characteristics from a frozen partially prepared French fried potatoes are difficult to obtain on a commercial scale for several reasons. First of all, environmental factors such as the source of the potatoes, their maturity when harvested, the conditions under which they have been stored, and the like all give rise to large variations in the composition of the raw potato which in turn make it difficult to achieve uniformity in the final product. Color formation in the finished fried potato is now known to be caused basically by the interaction of reducing sugars and amino acids, with ascorbic acid, proteins and other materials also playing a minor role in the color forming process. The environmental factors mentioned above definitely cause changes in the quantity of the color forming bodies contained in the raw potato or example, storage at low temperatures causes an increase in the reducing sugar content of the potatoes with a corresponding decrease in the starch content On the other hand, at high storage temperatures, the process is reversed, with increase in the starch content and decrease in the reducing sugar content.These variations are difficult to adjust in a com mercial process and make the problem of non uniform color formation a serious one in the industry. As for palatability of the product, it is a fact that after oven reheating, partially prepared frozen Fried potatoes are often excessively oily and limp with concave sagging surfaces and collapsed interiors. These textural deficiencies definitely make the product less acceptable and detract from its palatability. There have been proposed several methods in the prior art to overcome some of these problems. One of the most widely known of these is the step of dipping the cut potatoes in an aqueous solution of absorbable reducing sugars prior to frying in order to level out the variations in reducing sugar content of the raw potatoes. The idea here is that if a uniform sugar content can be establised in the raw potato, then the color developed from frying should also be uniform. Another method to overcome some of these problems is to coat the gelatinized surface of the potato product obtained after blanching with an aqueous suspension of gelatinized starch. This step has been described in Vahlsing, U.S. Patent No. 3,175,914 and Murray, U.S. Patent No. 3,597,227, as well asGold, U.S. Patent No. 3,424,591. However, this and other proposed suggestions have neither fulfilled initial expectations nor been widely accepted in the industry as a satisfactory solution to the problems. In the making of the present invention, it was a principal object to provide novel frozen, partially prepared French fries capable of reconstitution in the oven to a condition more nearly equivalent to freshly deep fat fried French fries then had heretofore been possible.DISCLOSURE OF THE INVENTION The general purpose of this invention is to provide partially prepared potato comestibles that approximate the attributes and characteristics of deep fat fried potato products upon reheating.The present invention consists of a novel frozen partially prepared potato composition. These products are particularly suited for a unique technique for cooking the frozen comestible to reproduce, color, taste, moisture and texture profiles of freshly deep fat fried potatoes. To obtain the desired uniform potato product color upon heating, the potato product should be par fried providing a slight brown color.A light brown color developed is more appealing to the consumer than the near white colored potatoes that do not appear to approximate the final finished product. The new partially prepared potato product comprises selected percentages of water, oil and potato solids to yield a frozen, starch coated par fried potato product having 24 54 water 12 18 oil and 28 58 potato solids by weight. It has been determined that there is definite correlation between the percentages of water, oil and potato solids and the texture of deep fat fried potatoes.One skilled in the art will appreciate that total solids is the combinations of potato solids and oil solids. It has been found that within these percentage of total solids to water, a more desirable product is produced. Surprisingly, the increase in the amount of oil solids does not result in a oily and soggy potato product. Heretofore, the prior art has produced potato comestibles of lower total solids. The higher total solids partially preparedFrench fried potatoes have been neglected because of the perceived high costs of raw materials and processing costs. However, when partially prepared potato products having high total solids are oven reheated, they are highly palatable without the accustomed excessive oiliness and without being limp with concave sagging surfaces and collapsed interiors. Because the oven reheated partially prepared potato products having high total solids obviates prior art problems, consumers are more inclined to purchase a superior product. The crust thickness of the ovenreheated potato product should closely approximate the crust thickness of deep fat fried potatoes. To achieve this, the partially prepared potato product should have a negligible crust thickness after parfrying, i.e., before reheating it to be served for consumption. These textural and color attributes have not been duplicated by oven heating prior art frozen partially prepared potato products. Preferably, the partially prepared potato comestible is heated on a heat transferring apparatus or device. A heat transferring apparatus or device is defined as a means of supporting discrete pieces of food in an oven, whereby the effect of conduction heating is minimized and the effect of convection heating is maximized. In order to maximize such type of heating, the amount of structure supporting the comestible in the oven should be minimized. It is an advantage object of this invention to develop an oven reheatable potato product that is significantly preferred to the prior art on the basis of taste eating satisfaction and are at parity with deep fat fried products. Another object of the invention is the provision of convenient preparation and clean up, whereby the time and effort involved is lessened. A further advantage is to provide a product having a storage life of at least six months in normal frozen distribution conditions, and thereby maintaining acceptable quality. It is still another object to provide products capable of being placed directly into an oven from the freezer and heated within ten minutes and which generate a deep fat fried flavor and aroma. Other objects, features and advantages of this invention will be apparent from the following detailed description and appended claims. DESCRIPTION OF PISOTOMICROGRAPHS Referring now to the figures Figures 1, and 2, show the granular nature of conventional frozen potatoes as received by fast food restaurants. Figure 1 magnification 63x depicts the surface of the potato while Figure 2 magnification 25x represents a cross sectional view of the potato. Figures 3, 4, and 5 shows the frozen product of this invention having an essentially completely disrupted cellular structure on the surface of the comestible which is acellular in appearance withlittle granular character although cell walls are present precluding a homogeneous appearance. Figure 3 magnification 50x depicts the surface of the potato, while Figures 4 magnification 20x , and 5 magnification 50x represent the cross sectional view of the potato. Figures 6, and 7 show the granular nature of frozen par fried potatoes sold at retail. Figure 6 magnification 50xj depicts the surface of the potato, while figure 7 magnification 20x represents the cross sectional view of the potato. Figures 8 and 9 show the acellular surface of deep fat fried potato as sold by fast food restaurants. Figures 8 magnification 50x and 9 magnification 20x represent the surface of the potato. Figures 10 magnification 50x and 11 magnification 20x show the oven prepared product of this invention having acellular structure similar to the deep fat fried potatoes of Figures 8 and 9. Figure 12 magnification 50x shows the granular surface structure of an oven prepared retail product. Figures 13, 14, and 15 show the modified product of this invention which has received no oil soak, but has received only starch coating. Figure 13 magnification llx and 14 magnification 20x depict a cross sectional view of the potato whileFigure 15 magnification 50x represents the surface of the potato. Figures 16, 17 and 18 show a modified product of this invention which has received no starch coating, but has received ony oil soaking. Figures 16 magnification 20x and 17 magnification 20x depict a cross sectional view of the potato whileFigure 18 magnification 50x represents the surface of the potato. Figures 19 and 20 show a 50 total solids potato that has not been starch dip nor oil soaked.Figure 19 magnification 50x depicts the surface of the potato surface while Figure 20 represents the cross sectional view of the potato. Figures 21, 22, 23 and 24 show the granular nature of other brands of par fried potatoes sold at retail. Figures 21 magnification 50x and 22 magnification 20x depict the granular nature of the surface cross sectional view of one retail brand. Figure 23 magnification 50x and 24 magnification 25x also depict the granular nature of the surface and cross sectional view of another retail brand. Globules of oil can be seen on the potato surface. Figure 25 magnification 50x represents the oven prepared product of Figures 23 and 24. The picture depicts the still predominant granular surface.BEST MODE FOR CARRYING OUT THE INVENTION The quality of French fries will vary with the potato used. This variance will occur both between different species of potatoes and the age of the potato within a given species. The variance is due to different chemical characteristics inherent in the potatoes, such as sugar content, starch content, and specific gravity. The problems caused by variations of such properties in potatoes are discussed in detail in Potato Processing, published in 1959 by the A.V.I. Publishing Co., Inc., Westport, Connect icut, and edited by W. F. Talbert and 0. Smith.Despite these variations, the present invention enables the production of superior quality French fry potatoes in a conventional home oven as compared to the same raw potatoes prepared by conventional potato processing which are subsequently reheated on a baking pan or ridged bottom tray in a conventional home oven. In accordance with the present invention, raw unpeeled white potatoes are obtained for processing.Any variety of potatoes is acceptable, for instanceGarnet Chili, Early Rose, Russet Rural, Peach Blow,Early Ohio, Triumph, Kennebec, Merrimack, Dells, Saco, Katahdin, Bounty, Cherokee, Chippewa, EarlyGem, Haig, Irish Cobbler, La Rouge, Norgold Russte,Norland, Onaway, Pungo, Red La Sorda, Red McGlure, Red Pontiac, Viking or White Rose. However, it is preferred to use Russet Burbank or Katahdin potatoes in the practice of this invention to obtain the best combination of internal texture and flavor in the final French fry potato product. The potatoes are washed, peeled, trimmed, sorted, cut and blanched. Each of these steps is well known in the art and discussed in detailed in the Potato Processing reference described above. The cut potato strips are further processed by one of three methods known in the art. In the first method, the cut potato strips are blanched in approx imately 740C to 930C approximately 1650F to 2000F water for 6 20 minutes, cooled to less than 380C approximately 1000F , then blanched again with approximately 740C to 930C approximately 1650 to 2000F water for 3 to 4 minutes, and treated with a dextrose dip at approximately 710C approximately 1600F for 30 seconds.In the second method, the cut potato strips are pre treated with water below approximately 680C approximately 1550F for 3 to 8 minutes, treated with sodium acid pyrophosphate and sulfur dioxide to a 4.0 pH, dried with approximately 930C to 1210C approximately 2000F to 2500F air for 12 minutes, and steam blanched at atmospheric pressure for 5 to 7 minutes. The third method, the cut potato strips are simply blanched for a longer period of time as known in the art. Generally, the cut potato strips are waterblanched prior to frying. Advantages of blanching include more uniform color of fried products, reduction of fat adsorption through gelatinization of the surface starch, reduced frying time since the potato is partially cooked by blanching, and improved texture of the final product. Blanching has a leeching effect on the sugars and serves to even out variations of sugar concentration at or near the surfaces of the cut potato strips. This gives a lighter and more uniform color on frying. One skilled in the art understands that it is common practice to operate two blanchers in series for greater flexibility and more effective control of product color. After blanching and after the gelatinized surface layer on the potato solids has been extracted of substantial amounts of soluble sugars, the surface layer is wetted with an aqueous suspension of a film forming hydrocolloid, glucose polymer, most preferably potato starch which is not pregelatinized. However, one skilled in the art will appreciate that gelatinized starch may also be used, but at lower concentrations. The starch bath provides a very accessible layer of starch on each potato piece. Without the starch treatment, the cut potato slices have only the natural starch which is imbedded in the potato cell matrix. The sliced, blanched potatoes are dipped in a potato starch solution of a concentration from 1 to 10 , most preferably at a concentration of 5 which is maintained from approximately 160C to 270C approximately 6O0F to sOOF . The potatoes should be dipped for 5 to 90 seconds, most preferably for 20 to 40 seconds. The concentration and temperature of the starch solution as well as the dipping time is controlled to coat the cut potato strips. The starch solution will contain more anylopectin than amylose. The amylopectin being a highly branched chain glucose polymer provides the desired film forming. Since the hydrocolloid film functions not only to minimize oil adsorption, but also to control moisture loss during frying and oven reheating, the amount of hydrocolloid on the potato surface, i.e., the film thickness, is important. A too thin film provides inadequate oil resistance and permits a high moisture and yield loss. Yet a heavy coating impairs the development of a uniform color and often leads to the rupture of the film from excessive internal pressure during frying or oven reheating.A heavy coating of starch also permits entrapment of oil and causes an undesirable mottled or speckled surface color. Moreover, when the starch coating is omitted, the potato product lacks freshly fried flavor and is less crisp. Ilowever, proper control of the film thickness can be achieved by adjustment of the viscosity and temperature of the aqueous treating solution and the contact time. After the cut potato slices have been starch coated, they are oil soaked. Oil soaking is for 2 to 6 minutes at a temperature of approximately 490C to 990C approximately 1200F to 2100F . More preferably, the oil soak is for 3 to 5 minutes at a temperature from approximatley 710 C to 880C approximately 1600F to 1900F . During oil soaking, the added starch layer gelatinizes substantially and the liberated amylose and amylopectin form a relatively homogenious layer of polysaccharide oil complex on the surface. The product is then par fried The par frying step produced what is known as a par fried or oil blanched potato. Par fries require but a minimum of frying at the processing plant.This accomplishes some browning and crisping as well as heating the potato strip. To have a palatable potato product which has a color similar to deep fat fried potatoes, the color must be partially developed before reheating it for consumption. As color development occurs, crust formation begins. Most importantly, par frying after oil soaking regulates the percentages of water and oil in the potato comestible. It is desirable that the range of water, oil and potato solids be from 24 54 water, 12 18 oil, and 28 58 potato solids by weight. More desirable, the potato product comprises 45 to 54 water by weight, 13 to 17 oil by weight and 28 to 41 potato solids by weight.Preferably total solids potato and oil should exceed 46 by weight with the oil content exceeding 12 by weight. More preferably the total solids potato solids and oil solids is greater than 50 .Moreover when the total solids is greater than 50 it is even more preferred to have the oil component greater than 14 of the potato product. Par frying is accomplished in a fryer where a somewhat higher and more nearly optimum temperature for development can be maintained as compared to the oil soak step. In the transfer from the oil soak to the par fryer the strips are agitated which ensures even color development and avoids light areas caused by two or more pieces sticking together throughout the frying process. The temperature of the parfryer ranges from approximately 1630C to 2180C approximately 3250F. to 4250F while the time may range from 10 seconds to 150 seconds. More preferably, the temperature ranges from apprxoimately 1770C to 2040C approximately 3500F to 4000F and the time of par frying ranges from 30 to 90 seconds. The high temperature par frying is essential to gain desired color, crust texture and to adjust oil and moisture levels. Upon exiting the fryer, the potato product should have a negligible a crust thickness. After par frying, the product is quick frozen in conventional manner at temperatures below the freezing point of water, and preferrably below 170C approximately 0OF . The starch coated, oil soaked, par fried potato products having high total solids content were viewed by a scanning electron microscope. The resulting images showed a distinct acellular structure of a polysaccharide oil molecule. This product was used as a control in evaluating other potato products. The following hypothesis is used to explain this phenomena of the invention. However, the hypothesis of the existence and mechanism by which the invention may operate is not designed to limit the scope of the present invention, but is advanced only as a means of explaining the effects produced.Verification of the polysaccharide oil complex hypotheses was attempted by processing potatoes with the starch bath and no oil soak, and with the oilsoak and no starch bath. Scanning electron microscopic photographs of the surface and cross section of each were compared to potato products that had been both starch coated and oil soaked. Taking the samples directly from the starch bath to the par fry gave much less indication of a layer of starch polymers. Apparently the high temperature frying gelatinized the starch but also dehydrated the surface before the granular nature was lost. The product from the oil soak but no added starch was more like the potato products that had been both starch coated and oil soaked, with a surface layer, similar but not as pronounced.The oil soak is most effective when there is a layer of starch readily available for gelatinization. It would be expected to effect the granules in the surface of the potato matrix, but not as completely. Uniformity of color and crust thickness in the potato product is further related to the method in which the partially prepared potato is heated for consumption. It has been found that a uniform heat transfer to the starch coated, oil soaked, par fried potato product more closely approximated the uniformity of color and crust thickness of deep fat fried potatoes. Products that are heated on a baking pan lack uniform heat transfer and the con ductive heating will cause a non uniform color and crust thickness where the pan contacts the comestible. Table I is a comparison of the composition of one product column A prepared by the starch dip, oil soak, par fry process invention to conventional frozen potatoes as received by fast foods stores column B and sold at retail for oven preparation column C . Par fried, fast food frozen shoe string potatoes Product B are dipped in an ungelatinized potato starch aqueous mixture to overtly coat the potato with ungelatinized potato solids. These potatoes are then subjected to an oil soak of from approximately 490C to 990C approximately 1200 2100F for a period of time from 2 6 minutes. Higher temperatures and or longer times, within the ranges are given, are required when the potato is frozen.Adjustment within the range of time and temperature is a routine matter so long as the finished product has surface characteristics by photomicrograph which indicate an acellular structure. The soaked unfrozen and partially gelatinized potato is then subjected to a par frying at a temperature of approximately 1630C to 2180C approximately 3250 4250F for from 10 150 seconds. The product, Product A , is then frozen for distribution and sale. The frozen product, A, is then reheated in a monolayer preferably in a manner optimizing convection as discussed in Canada Patent ApplicationSerial No. 332,054 filed July 18, 1979. When prepared on a screen in an oven its final composition is showing in A1. This product is compared to two samples cooked as follows. Frozen potatoes as received by a fast food chain are deep fat fried to the composition shown in B1. Retail frozen potatoes are oven heated and cooked to a composition shown in C1 with a employing a screen as in preparing A1 and b employing the conventional cookie sheet. It is evident that the cooked retail product composition C1 whether a cookie sheet or screen is employed, differs significantly from the finished product A1. The flavor and textural characteristics of the products of C1 also are significantly different compared to the product of this invention which is significantly preferred by the consumer. The invention product has flavor and texture characteristics in fact that are not appreciably different from the deep fat fried product BÚ. Appreciable flavor difference in CÚ product is caused by using a screen to optimize convection heating as compared to a cookie sheet.The product of this invention has improved texture and flavor compared to retail products oven prepared whether by screen or cookie sheet. When fresh conventionally preprocessed potatoes are subjected to ungelatinized potatoes starch dipping and oil soaking followed by par frying, similar improvements are apparent. Table I further demonstrates the principle that by starting with a unique frozen starch coated, oil soaked, partially prepared potato product which has a solids to water to oil ratio that is different from the prior art, one may obtain a potato product similar to deep fat fried potatoes. Histochemical examination of the product of this invention and selected commercial products indicated that this new product is unique in that it shows a distinctly intact and even cellular structure.A proteinaceous material is clearly visible in the outer layer of this new product. TABLE I FROZEN PRODUCTS AS SOLD A B C INVENTION FAST FOOD RETALLPRODUCT FROZE FROZEN FROZEN Potato Potato PotatoComposition Solids Water Oil Solids Water Oil Solids Water Oil 48 36 16 28 63 9 33 57 10Parts 2.9 2.2 1 3.2 7.0 1 3.2 5.6 1Range 2.6 3.1 2.0 2.3 1 2.8 3.7 6.4 7.8 1 2.5 3.7 4.8 6.7 1 FINAL PREPARED PRODUCT AS EATEN AÚ BÚ CÚ Oven Heated Deep Fat Fried Oven Heated Potato Potato PotatoComposition Solids Water Oil Solids Water Oil Solids Water Oil 50 33 17 47 35 18 52 37 11Parts 2.9 1.9 1 2.6 1.9 1 a 4.9 3.5 1Range 2.7 3.0 1.9 2.0 1 2.5 2.7 1.7 2.1 1 b 4.7 3.4 1 Table II further provides sensory information on the flavor, texture and appearance of commercial fast food French fried potatoes two commercial oven prepared brands of frozen French fried potatoes, X and Y the potato product of this invention, andFrench fried potatoes made in the home by deep fat frying. The sensory information was developed by six experienced panelists trained in product evaluation. Their conclusion was that the product of this invention was most similar to commercial fast food deep fat fried potatoes in flavor, texture, aroma and appearance. The commercial frozen potato comestibles sold at retail and the home fries were largely different from the product of this invention due to a burnt flavor noticeable in the home fries andProduct X , a more intense starch flavor in Product Y , a variable texture in Product X hard on one side, soft on the other , a mushy texture in home fries and Product Y , a lack of aroma in Product X , non uniform piece sizes and uneven color in the home fries and Product X . TABLE II COMMERCIAL COMMERCIAL FAST POTATO PRODUCT COMMERCIAL RETAIL ROME RETAIL FOOD PRODUCT OF INVENTION PRODUCT X FRIES PRODUCT Y Appearance Light golden brown light golden brown white w burned uneven med dark golden yellow sl mod uniform sl mod uniform side non uniform brown. mod uni brown, non piece size piece size piece size form piece size uniform piece sizeAroma sl mod browned sl mod browned very slight oil sl mod browned sl mod brown potato oil grease potato oil grease grease potato oil potato oil grease greaseFlavor Starch slight slight slight mod slight slight mod oil grease slight slight slight slight slight raw green potato slight slight very slight very slight very slight sweet slight very slight very slight slight salt slight burnt slight slight Impact moderate slight slight slight slight TABLE II Continued COMMERCIAL COMMERCIAL FAST POTATO PRODUCT COMMERCIAL RETAIL HOME RETAIL FOOD PRODUCT OF INVENTION PRODUCT X FRIES PRODUCT Y Texture surface oil slight slight thershold level slight slight crispoess slight slight variable very slight slight moisture oil release slight mod slight very slight slight slight description of breakdown crisp outside, crisp outside, variable hard on mushy starch mushy starchy soft center, least soft center burnt side, soft inside, skin inside, skin distinction be on white side separates and is separates and tween skin and slightly tougheris slightly center tougherMouthcoat slight slight very slight slight mod sight Table III further shows that by starting with a potato product having total solids above 46 , the resultant oven heated potato comestible closely approximate those qualities found in a potato product that has been deep fat fried. TABLE III PHYSICAL CHEMICAL COMPOSITION COMMERCIAL COMMERCIAL COMMERCIAL POTATO FAST FOOD RETAIL PRODUCT RETAIL PRODUCT PRODUCT OF PRODUCT x Y TNVENTION FROZENCOMPOSITION WATER 62 63 62 67 55 59 45 54 OIL 7 8 7 8 8 12 13 17 POTATO SOLIDS 29 30 35 31 31 34 28 41 TOTAL SOLIDS 37 38 33 38 41 45 46 76 TOTAL 100 100 100 100PREPARATION NEAT DEEP FAT TRANSFERRING FRIED BAKING PAN BAKING PAN APPARATUSREADY TO EATCOMPOSITION WATER 36 40 26 46 37 36 41 OIL 15 18 8 12 11 14 16 POTATO SOLIDS 44 49 46 62 52 47 49 TOTAL SOLIDS 60 64 57 74 63 62 63 TOTAL 100 100 100 100CRUST THICKNESS INCH 0.015 0.022 0.039 0.054 0.019 0.027 In one embodiment of this invention, cut potato strips are pre treated with water below approximately 680C approxiately 1550F for 3 to 8 minutes, then treated with sodium acid pyrophosphate and sulfur dioxide to a 4.0 ph, dried with approximately 930C to 1210C approximately 200 2500F air for approximately 12 minutes, steam blanched at atmospheric pressure for 5 to 7 minutes and frozen in a blast freezer. Each of these steps are known in the art.Next the frozen potato strips are starch coated by dipping the strips into a 4 potato starch bath for 30 seconds at a temperature of approximately 210C approximately 700F . The cut blanched, starch coated potatoes are then oil soaked in an approximately 820C approximately 1800F oil bath for 4 minutes. The cut blanched, starch coated, oil soaked potatoes are then par fried in 190 1930C approximately 375 3800F oil for 60 seconds. The resultant product is then positioned in a blast freezer until they are frozen to a temperature of about 170C approximately 0OF . The potato comestibles are subsequently packaged in combination with the heat transferring apparatus. Upon the heating the potato comestibles on the heat transferring apparatus, the resultant ratio between total solids and water as well as color, texture and crust thickness is comparable to potato strips having similar solids content that have been deep fat fried.