# DNA transfer vectors for human proinsulin and human pre proinsulin, microorganisms transformed thereby, and processes involving such substances.

## Abstract
A DNA having a base sequence coding for human proinsulin and a DNA having a base sequence coding for human pre proinsulin have been cloned, and novel recombinant DNA transfer vectors containing said cloned DNAs have been constructed. Novel microorganisms transformed by said recombinant transfer vectors have been obtained. Certain of said transformed microorganisms have demonstrated capability to express the cloned DNA s, synthesizing a protein comprising human proinsulin and a protein comprising human pre proinsulin.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A DNA transfer vector comprising a deoxynucleotide sequence coding for human pre proinsulin. 2. A DNA transfer vector comprising a deoxynucleotide sequence coding for human proinsulin. 30 A microorganism transformed by the transfer vector of claim 1 or 2. 4. A DNA transfer vector comprising a deoxynucleotide sequence coding for human pre proinsulin comprising a plus strand having the sequence 5 TCCTTCTGCCATG 24GCL 23X 22TY 22TGG 21ATG 20W 19X 18TY 18 X 17TY 17CCL 16X 15TY 15X 14TY 14GCL 13X 12TY 12X 11TY 11 GCL 10X 9TY 9 TGG 8GGL 7CCL 6GAK 5CCL 4GCL 3GCL 2GCL 1TTK1 GTL2AAK3CAJ4CAK5X6TY6TGK7GGL8QR9S9CAK10X11TY11GTL12GAJ13 GCL14X15TY15TAK16X17TY17GTL18TGK19GCL20GAJ21W22GZ22GCL23 TTK24TTK25TAK26ACL27CCL28AAJ29ACL30W31CZ31W32CZ32GAJ33 GCL34GAJ35GAK36X37TY37CAJ38GTL39GGL40CAJ41GTL42GAJ43X44 TY44GGL45GGL46GGL47CCL48GGL49GCL50GGL51QR52S52X53TY53CAJ54 CCL55X56TY56CL57X58TY58GAJ59GGL60QR61S61X62TY62CAJ63AAJ64 W65GZ65GGL66ATM67GTL68GAJ69CAJ70TGK71TGK72ACL73QR74S74ATM75TGK76QR77S77X78TY79CAJ80X81TY81GAJAAK83TAK84 TGK85AAK86TAGACGCAGCCCGCAGGCAGCCCCCCACCCGCCGCCTCCTGCACCG AGAGAGATGGAATAAAGCCCTTGAACCAGC poly A 3 wherein A is deoxyadenyl, G is deoxyguanyl, C is deoxycytosyl, T is thymidyl, J is A or G, K is T or C L is At T, C, or G M is A, C, or T X is T or C if Y is A or G and C if Y is C or T n Y is A, G, C or T if X n is C, and A or G if Xn is T W is C or A if Z is G or A and C if Z is C or T n n n Zn is A, G, C or T if Wn is C, and A or G if Wn is A 4Rn is TC if Sn is At G, C or T, and AG if 5n is T or C Sn is A, G, C or T if QRn is TC, and T or C if QRn is AG and, subscript numerals, n, refer to the position in the amino acid sequence of human proinsulin, to which each triplet in the nucleotide sequence corresponds, according to the genetic code, the amino acid positions being numbered from the amino end. 5. A DNA transfer vector comprising a deoxynucleotide sequence coding for human proinsulin comprising a plus strand having the sequence 5 TTK1GTL2AAK3CAJ4CAK5X6TY6TGK7GGL8QR9S9CAK10X11TY11GTL12GAJ13GCL14X15TY15TAK16X17TY17GTL18TGK19GCL20GAJ21W22GZ22GCL23TTK24TTK25TAK26ACL27CCL28AAJ29ACL30W31GZ31W32GZ32GAJ33GCL34GAJ35GAK36X37TY37CAJ38GTL39GGL40CAJ41GTL42GAJ43X44TY44GGL45GGL46GGL47CCL48GGL49GCL50GGL51QR52S52X53TY53CAJ54CCL55X56TY56GCL57X58TY58GAJ59GGL60QR61S61X62TY62CAJ63AAJ64W65GZ65GGL66ATM67GTL68GAJ69CAJ70TGK71TGK72ACL73QR74S74ATM75TGK76QR77S77X78TY78TAK79CAJ80X81TY81GAJ82AAK83TAK84 TGK85AAK86TAG 3 wherein A is deoxyadenyl, G is deoxyguanyl, C is deoxycytosyl, T is thymidyl, J is A or G K is T or C L is At T, C, or G M is A, C or T Xn is,, T or C if Yn is A or G and C if Yn is C or T Yn is A, G, c or T if X is C, and A or G if An is T Wrj is C or A if Zn is G or A, and C if Zn is C or T is is A, G, C or T if Wn is C, and A or C if Wn is A, QRn is TC if 5n is A, C, C or T, and AS if Sn is T or C Sn is A, G, C or T if QRn is TC, and T or C if QR is AG and, subscript numerals, n, refer, to the position in the amino acid sequence of human proinsulin, to which each triplet in the nucleotide sequence correspnnds, according to the genetic code, the amino acid positions being numbered from the amino end. 6. A microorganism transformed by the transfer vector of claim 4 or 5. 7. The plasmid pcHI 1. 8, The pla smid pcHP l,. 9. A microorganism transformed by the plasmid of claim 7 or 8. 10. A microorganism as in claim 9 wherein the organism is Eacherichia coli. 11. The microorganism as in claim 10 wherein the organism is Escherichis .coli HB 1O1. 12. A fusion protein comprising the amino acid sequence of human pre proinsulin as its C terminal sequence, and a portion of a procaryotic protein as its N terminal sequence. 13. fusion protein comprising the amino acid sequence of human proinsulin as its C terminal sequence, and a portion of a procaryotic protein as its N terminal sequence. 14. A process for prepsring a deoxynucleotide sequence coding for human proinsultn comprising the following steps 1 treating a cDNA,fragment comprising a nucleotide sequence coding for human pre proinsulin with a restriction endonuclease having a restriction site within the region coding for the pre peptide of pre prwoinsulin, 2 treating the deoxynucleotide sequence from step 1 containing the proinsulin coding sequence with T4 DNA poly erase in the presence of one deoxynucleotide triphosphate, such that exonucleolytic digestion from the 3 ends occurs up to a stopping point defined by the deoxynucleotide triphosphate, 3 repla cing the deoxynucleotide triphosphate with a different deoxynucleotide triphosphate, such that the digestion pro ceeds to a second defined stopping point, 4 reiterating step 3 as needed to digest the 3 end up to the first nucleotide of the sequence coding for proinsulin, the final digestion being carried out in the presence of dATP, and 5 treating the deoxynucleotide product from step 4 with S1 nuclease, to digest the 3 end up to the first nucleotide of the sequence coding for proinsulin. 15. The process of claim 14 wherein said restriction endonuclease is Hha I. 16. A process for preparing the deoxynucleotide sequence coding for human proinsulin comprising the following steps 1 cleaving a synthetic deoxynucleotide sequence coding for the B chain of human insulin and having at least one restriction siMe in common with human proinsulin cDNA into two fragments, said cleaving done by hydrolys is catalyzed by a restriction endonuclease recognizing said common restriction site, 2 cleaving a cDNA coding for human pre proinsulin into two fragments, said cleaving do ne by hydrolysis catalyzed by the same restriction endonuelease as used in step 1 , and 3 joining those fragments of steps 1 and 2 which together contain the coding sequence for human proinsuli n by blunt end ligation. 17. The proces s of claim 16 wherein said restriction endonuclease ia Alu I. 1 8. A process for preparing the deoxynucleotide sequence coding for humanproinsulin comprising the following steps 1 removing a portion of the deoxynucleotide sequence coding for human proinsulin by treating a cDNA coding for human pre proinsulin with a restriction endonuclease having a recognition site within the sequence coding for proinsulin, 2 synthesizing a.deoxynucleotide sequence capable of replacing the portion removed and coding for the same amino acids coded by the portion removed, and 3 joining the.deo.xynucleotide sequences. from steps 1 and 2 by blunt end ligation. 19. The process of claim 18 wherein the restriction endonuclease used in step 1 is Alu I. 20. A process for making insulin comprising the following steps 1 constructing a microorganism having a deoxnynucleotide sequence coding for a peptide comprising a a deoxy nucleotide sequence N N N . having a 5 and 3 end, wherein abcjNa, Nb and N may be A, T, G or C and j is any integer from c O to 100 such that N N N is not TGA, TAA or TAG, b a deoxynucleotide sequence coding for the B chain of human insulin attached to the 5 end of NaNbNC j and c a deoxynucleotide sequence coding for the A chain of human insulin attached ta the 31 end of NaNbNC j, 2 growing the microorganism under suitable conditions for the expression of a deoxynucleotide sequence coding for said peptide so that said peptide having the B chain of human insulin attached at its N terminus and the A chain of human insulin attached at its C terminus is produced,. 3 purifying the peptide with said attached B and A chains, 4 treating said purified peptide to form the disulfide cross links as found in insulin between said A and B chains, 5 treating said cross linked purified peptide with an enzyme preparation capabl.e of excising said A,and B chains from said peptide, said excised A and B chains having said disulfide cross links thereby forming insulin, and 6 purifying the insulin produced in step 5 . 21. The process of claim 20 wherein a deoxynucleotide sequence coding for the B chain of human insulin comprising a plus strand having the sequence 5 TTK1GTL2AAK3CAJ4CAK5 X6TY6TGK7GGL8QR9S9CAK10X 11TY11GTL12GAJ13GCL14 X15 TY TAK16X17TY17GTL18TGK19GCL20GAJ 21W22CZ22CCL23TTK24TTK25TA K26ACL27 CCL28AAJ,29ACL30 3 and a deoxynucleotide sequence coding for the A chain comprising a plus strand having the sequence 5 GGL66ATM67GTL68GAJ69CAJ70TGK71TGK72ACL73QR74S74ATM75TGK76QR77S77TY TY78TAK79CAJ80X81TY81CAJ82AAK83TAK84TGK85AAK86 3 wherein A is deoxyadenyl, G is deoxyguanyl, C is deoxycytos yl, T is thymidyl, J is A or C K is T or C L is A, T, C or C M is A, C or T Xn isT or C if Yn is A or G and C if Yn is C or T Y is A, G, C or T if Xn is C, and A or G if Xn is T n n is C or A if Zn is G or A, and C if Zn is C or T Zn is A, G, C or T if Wn is C, and A,or G if Wn is A QRn is TC if Sn is A, G, C or T, and AG if 5n is T or C n is A, G, C or T if QRn is TC, and T or C if QRn is AG and, subscript numerals, n, refer to the position in the amino acid sequence of human proinsulin, to which each triplet in the nucleotide sequence corresponds, according to the genetic code, the amino acid positions being numbered from the amino end. 22. Process for making a DNA transfer vector for use in maintaining and replicating a deoxynucleotide sequence coding for human pre proinsulin charact.eriz ed by reacting a deoxynucleotide sequence coding for human pre proinsulin with a DNA molecule prepared by cleaving a transfer vector with a restriction enzyme. 23. The process of claim 22, characterized in that the deoxynucleotide sequence coding for human pre proinsulin comprises a plus strand ha ing the sequence 5 t ATG24GCL 23X 22TY 22TGG 21ATG 20W 19GZ 19X 19TY 18 X1 17TY 17CCL 16X 15TY 15X 14TY 14GCL l3X 12TY 12X 11TY 11 GCL 10X 9TY 9TGG 8GGL 7CCL 6GAK 5CCL 4GCL 3GCL 2GCL 1TTK 1 GTL2AAK3CAJ4CAK5X6TY6TGK7GGL8QR9S9CAK10X11TY11GTL12GAJ13 GCL14X15TY15TAK16X17TY17GTL18TGK19GCL20GAJ21W22GZ22GCL23 TTK24TTK25TAK26ACL27CCL28AAJ29ACL30W31GZ31W32GZ32GAJ33 GCL34GAJ35GAK36X37TY37CAJ38GTL39GGL40CAJ41GTL42GAJ43X44 TY44GGL45GGL46GGL47CCL48GGL49GCL50GGL51QR52S52X53TY53CAJ54 CCL55X56TY56GCL57X58TY58GAJ59GGL60QR61S61X62TY62CAJ63AAJ64 W65GZ65GGL66ATM67GTL68GAJ68CAJ70TGK71TGK72ACL73QR74S74 ATM75TGK76QR77S77X78TY78TAK79CAJ80X81TY81GAJ82AAK83TAK84 TGK85AAK86TAG 3 whereinA is deoxyadenyl,G is deoxyguanyl,C is deoxycytosyl,T is thymidyl,,J is A or G K is T or C . L is A, T, C or G M is A, C orXn is T or C if n, is A or G and C if Y is C or T Yn is A, E, C or T if Xn is C, and A or G if Xn is T Wn is C or A if Zn is G or A, and C if ,Xn is C or T Zn is A, G, C or T if Wn is C, and A or G if ,Wn, is A URn is TC if 5n is A, E, C or T, .and AS if Sn is T or C S is A, G, C or T if QRn is TC, and T or C if QRn is AG and subscript numerals, n, refer to the position in the amino acid sequence of.human proinsulin, to which each triplet in the nucleotide sequence corresponds, according to the genetic code, the amino acid positions being numbered from the amino end 24. Process for preparing a deoxynucleotide sequence coding for human proinsulin for use in synthesizing human insulin characterized by hydrolyzing the 3 ends of a deoxynucleotide sequence coding for human pre proinsulin mai ntained and replicated according to the process of claim 22, by one or more cycles of stepwise exonucleolytic digestion catalyzed by T4 uNA polymerase acting in the presence of one deoxynucleotide triphosphate, then hydrolyzing the 5 ends of said deoxynucleotide sequence by a nucleolytic .digestion catalyzed by a nuclease enzyme specific for single stranded DNA having a 5 end. 25. The process of claim 24, characterized in that the sequence coding for human pre proinsulin is hydrolyzed at a specific site in a reaction catalyzed by HhaI endo nuclease prior to T4 DNA polymerase digestion. 26. Process for preparing a deoxynucleotide sequence coding for human proinsulin for use in synthesizing human insulin characterized by reacting a cDNA fragment coding for a portion of human proinsulin, prepared by cleaving a cDNA coding for human pre proinsulin, maintained and replicated according to the process of claim 22, with a restriction endonuclease having a unique recognition site within its deoxynucleotide sequence, with a chemically synthesized DNA whose deoxynucleotide sequence codes for that portion of human proinsulin not coded by said cDNA fragment, in a blunt end ligation reaction catalyzed by DNA ligase. 27. The process according to claim 26, characterized in that the restriction endonuclease is Alum. 28. The process of any of claims 24 to 27, characterized in that the deoxynucleotide sequence coding for human pro insulin comprises a plus strand having the sequence 5 TTK1GTL2AAK3CAJ4CAK5X6TY6TGK7GGL8QR9X9CAK10X11TY11GTL12GAJ13GCL14X15TY15TAK16X17TY17GTL18TGK19GCL20GAJ21W22GZ22GCL23TTK24TTK25TAK26ACL27CCL28AAJ29ACL30W31GZ31W32GZ32GAJ33GCL34GAJ35GAK36X37TY37CA38GTL39GGL40CAJ41GTL42GAJ43X44TY44GGL45GGL46GGL47CCL47GGL49GCL50GGL51QR52S52X53TY53CAJ54CCL55X56TY56GCL57X58TY58GAJ59GGL60QR61S61X62TY62CAJ63AAJ64W65GZ65GGL66ATM67GTL68GAJ69CAJ70TGK71TGK72ACL73QR74S74ATM75TGK76QR77S77X78TY78TAK79CAJ80X81GAJ82AAK83TAK84TGK85AAK86TAG 3 wherein A is deoxyadenyl, G is deoxyguanyl, C is deoxycytosyl,T is thymidyl,J is A or S K is T or C L is A, T, C or G M is A, C or T Xn is T or C if n is A or G and C if Yn is C orYn is A, G, C or T if X is C, and or C if X is T Wn is C or A if Zn is G or A, and C if Z is C or n Zn is A, C, C or T if Wn is C, and A or G if Wn is A QRn is TC if Sn is A, G, C or T, and AG if Sn is T or C A, is A, C, C or T if QRn is TC, and T or C if QRn is AG and subscript .numerals, n, refer to the position in the amino acid sequence of human proinsulin, to which each triplet in the nucleotide sequence corresponds, according to the genetic code, the amino acid positions being numbered from the amino end. 29. A process for making the plasmid pcHI 1 according to claim 22 or 23, chara.cterized in that the DNA molecule prepared by cleaving a transfer vector with a restriction enzyme is pBR322 and the restriction enzyme is PstI endonuclease. 30. Process for making a DNA transfer vector for use in maintaining and replicating a deoxynucleotide sequence coding for human proinsulin, characterized by reacting a deoxynucleotide sequence coding for human proinsulin, made according to any one of clsims 24 to 28, with a DNA mole cule prepared by cleaving a transfer vector with a restriction enzyme. 31. A process for making the plasmid pcHP 1 according to claim.30, characterized in that the DNA mblecule prepared by cleaving a transfer vector with a restriction enzyme is pBR322 and the restriction enzyme is PstI endonuclease. 32. Process for making an expression transfer vector in accordance with claim 22 or 30, for use in expressing a deoxynucleotide sequence coding for human pre proinsulin or human proinsulin, characterized in that the DNA molecule prepared by cleavi ng a transfer vector with a restriction enzyme is cleaved at a point within an expressible control region. 33. A process for making a fusion protein comprising the amino acid sequence of human pre proinsulin as its C terminal sequence and a portion of a procaryotic protein as its Nterminal sequence, characterized by incubating a microorganism transformed by an expression transfer vector comprising a deoxynucleotide sequence coding for human preproinsulin, prepared in accordance with the process of claim 22 or 23. 34. A process for making a fusion protein comprising the amino acid sequence of human proinsulin as its C terminal sequence, and a portion of a procaryotic protein as its Nterminal sequence, characterized by incubating a microorganism transformed by an expression transfer vector comprising a deoxynucleotide sequence coding for human proinsulin, prepared in accordance with the process of claim 30. 35. Process for synthesizing human proinsulin comprisingA and B peptides separated from each other by a C peptide, characterized by incubating a microorganism, transformed by an expression transfer vector comprising a deoxynucleotide sequence coding for said human proinsulin prepared in accordance with any of claims 24 to 28, under conditions suitable for expression of said sequence coding for human proinsulin, and purifying human proinsulin from the lysate or culture medium of said microorganism. 36. The process .of claim 35, characterized in that the deoxynucleotide sequence coding for the B chain of human insulin comprises a plu.s strand having the sequence 5 TTK1 GTL2AAK3CAJ4CAK5X6TY6TGK7GGL8QR9S9CAK1ûX11TY11.GTLs2 12CA313GCL14X15TY15TAK16X17TY17CTL18 TCK19 GCL20GAJ21 W22CZ22 CL 23TTK24TTK25 TAK26 ACL27CCL28AAJ9 ACL30 30 and the deoxynsscleotide sequence codingfor the A chain comprises a plus strand having the sequence 5 GGL66ATM67GTL68GAJ69CAJ70TGK7lTGK72ACL73QR74S74ATM75TGK76QR77S77X78TY78 TAK79CAJ80X81TY81CAJ82 AAK83TAK84TGK85AAK86 3t whereinA is deoxyadenylG is deoxyguanyl. C is deoxysytacyl, T is thymidyl, J is A,or G K is T or C L is A, T, C or G M is A, C or T, Xn is T or C if Yn is A or G and C if n is C or T Yn is A, G, C or T if Xn is C, and A or G if Xn is T Wn is C or A if Zn is G or A, and C if Zn is C or T A,, A, G, C or T if Wn is C, and A or E if Wn is A QRn is TC of 5n is A, G, C or T, and AS if 5n is T or C Sn is A, G, C or T if QRn is TC, and T or C if QR n is AG and subscript numerals, n, refer ta the position in the amino acid sequence of human proinsulin, to which each triplet in the nucleotide sequence corresponds, according to the genetic code, the amino acid positions being numbered from the amino end. 37. The process of claim 35, characterized in that the deoxynucleotide sequence coding for the human proinsulin comprises a plus strand having a the deo xynucleotide sequence NaNbNC j having a 5 and 3 end, wherein Na, Nb and Nc may be A, T, G or C and j is any integer from 0 to 100 such that NaNbNC is not TGA, TAA or TAG b a deoxy nucleotide sequence coding for the B chain of human insulin attached to the 5 end of NaNbNC j and c a deoxynucleo tide sequence coding for the A chain of human insulin attached to the 3 end of N5NbNc j. 38. Process for synthesizing human insulin character ized by oxidizing sufhydryl groups on the A and B peptides of human proinsulin, prepared in accordance with any of claims 35 to 37, to form disulfide crosslinks between said A and B peptides, and then excising the C peptide by an enzyme catalyzed hydrolysis ,specific for the bonds joining the C peptide to the A and B peptides.

## Description
DNA transfer vectors for human proinsulin and human pre proinsulin, microorganisms transformed thereby, and processes involving such substances. The invention relates to DNA transfer vectors comprising deoxynucleotide sequence codings for human proinsulin and human pre proinsulin. It also relates to microorganisms transformed thereby, and to processes involving such substances. The invention herein provides the isolated and purified hereinafter cloned human gene coding for proinsulin and the human gene coding for pre proinsulin, methods for isolating and purifying the genes and a method for transferring the ge nes ta and replicating the genes in a micro organism. The clo n ed genes are expressed by a host microorganism when fused with a host expressible procaryotic gene. Both genes are useful in the production of human insulin for therapeutic purposes. Insulin is a hormone produced primarily by the B cells of the pancreas. At the presant time, the use of this hormone in the treatment of diabetes is well known. Although slaughterhouses provide beef and pig pancreases as insulin sources, a shortage of this hormone is developing as the number of diabetics increases worldwide. Moreover, some diabetics develop an allergic reaction to beef and pig insulin, with deleterious effects. The ability to produce human insulin in quantities sufficient to satisfy world needs is therefore highly desirable. The present invention provides genes, which are insertable into microorganisms, which are useful in the production of human insulin. Insulin consists of two polypeptide chains, known as the A and B chains, linked together by disulfide bridges. The A chain consists of 21 amino acids and the B chain con sists of 30 amino acids. These chains are not synthesized independently in vivo but are derived from an immediate pre cursor, termed proinsulin Proinsulin is a single poly peptide chain that contains a peptide, termed the C peptide, which connects the A abd B chains. See Steiner, D.F. et al, Science 157 , 697 1967 . This C peptide is excised during the packaging of insulin into the secretory granules of pancreatic B cells prior to secretion. See Tager, H.S. et al., Ann. Rev. Biochem. 43, 509 1974 . The current view of the function of the C peptide is that it functions only in forming the three dimensional structure of the molecule.The amino acid sequence for human proinsulin, determined by conventional techniques, is given in Table 1. In this table the B chain is amino acids 1 30, the C peptide is amino acids 31 65 and the A chain is amino acids 66 86. Table 1 1 10 NH2 Phe Val Asn Gln His Leu Cys y Ser His Leu Val Glu 20 Ala Leu Tyr Leu Val Cys Gly G1u Arg Gly Phe Phe Try Thr 30 40 Pro Lys Thr Arg Arg Glu Ala Glu Asp L2u Gln Val Gly n 50 Val Glu Leu Gly Gly Gly Pro Gly Ala Gly Ser Leu Gln Pro 60 Leu Ala Leu Glu y Ser Leu Gln Lys Arg Gly Ile Va1 Glu 70 80 Gln Cys Cys Thr Ser Ile Cys Ser Leu Tyr Gln Leu Glu Asn 86 Try Cys AsnChemical synthesis of this sequence of 86 amino acids though feasible is difficult using conventional techniques. In the pancreatic B cells, the initial translation product is not proinsulin itself, but a pre proinsulin that contains more than 20 additio nal amino ac ids on the amino terminus of proinsulin. See Cahn, S.J. et al.,. Proc. Nat.Acad. Sci. USA 73, 1964 1976 and Lomedico, P.T. et al, Nucl. Acid Res. 3, 381 1976 . The additional amino acid sequence is termed the signal peptide. In human pre proinsulin, see Figure 2 , the signal peptide has twenty four amino acids and the sequence is NH2 Met24 Ala Leu Trp Met20 Arg Leu Leu Pro Leu Leu Ala Leu Leu Ala10 Leu Trp Gly Pro Asp Pro Ala Ala Ala. The twenty four amino acid sequence is thought to be a specific signal for the vectorial transport of the synthesized polypeptide into the endoplasmic reticulum of the B cell, and is cleaved away from proinsulin during this phase See Blobel, G. et al., 3. Cell. Biol.67, 835 1975 . Several instances of signal peptides are known for eucaryotic proteins to be transported across membrane barriers. A specific cleavage enzyme has been observed in a cell free system which hydrolyzes the peptide bond between the signal peptide and the active protein concomitant with passage through a cell membrane. See, Blobel, G. et al.,Proc. Nat. Acad. Sci USA 75, 361 1978 . Recent advances in biochemistry and in recombinant DNA technology have made it possible to achieve the synthesis of specific proteins under controlled conditions independent of the higher organism from which they are normally isolated.Such biochemical synthetic methods employ enzymes and subcellular components of the protein synthesizing machinery of living cells, either in vitro, in cell free systems, or in vivo, in microorganisms. In either case, the key element is provision of a deoxyribonucleic acid DNA of specific sequence which contains the information necessary to specify the desired amino acid sequence. Such a specific DNA is herein termed a gene. The coding relationship whereby a deoxynucleotide sequence is used to specify the amino acid sequence of a protein is described briefly, infra, and operates according to a fundamental set of principles that obtain throughout the whole of the known realm of living organisms. A cloned gene may be used to specify the amino acid sequence of proteins synthesized by in vitro systems. DNAdirected protein synthesizing systems are well known in the art, see, e.g. Zubay, G., Ann. Rev. Genetics. 7, 267 1973 .In addition, single stranded DNA can be induced to act as messenger RNA in vitro, resulting in high fidelity translation of the DNA sequence Salas, J. et al, 3. Biol. Chem.243, 1012 1968 . Other techniques well known in the art may be used in combination with the above procedures to enhance yields. Developments in recombinant technology have made it possible to isolate specific genes or portions thereof from higher organisms, such as man and other mammals, and to transfer the genes or fragments to a microorganism, such as bacteria or yeast. The transferred gene is replicated and propagated as the transformed microorganism replicates. As a result, the transformed microorganism may become endowed with the capacity to make whatever protein the gene or fragment encodes, whether it be an enzyme, a hormone, an antigen or an antibody, or a portion thereof. The microorganism passes on this capability to its progeny, so that in effect, the transfer has resulted in a new strain, having the described capability. See, for example, Ullrich, A., et al., Science .196, 1313 1977 , and Seeburg,P.H., et al., Nature 270, 486 1977 .A basic fact underlying the application of this technology for practical purposes is that DNA of all living organisms, from microbes to man, is chemically similar, being composed of the same four nucleotides. The significant differences lie in the sequences of these nucleotides in the polymeric DNA molecule. The nuc leotide sequences are used to specify the amino acid sequen ces of proteins that comprise the organism. Although most of the proteins of different organisms differ from each other, the coding relationship between nucleotide sequence and amino acid sequence is fundamentally the same for all organ isms.For example, the same nucleotide sequence which codes for the amino acid sequence of HGH in human pituitary cells, will, when transferred to a microorganism, be recognized as coding for the same amino acid sequence. Abbreviations used herein are given in Table 2. Table 2DNA deoxyribonucleic acid A AdenineRNA ribonucleic acid T Thymine cDNA complementary DNA G Guanine enzymatically synthesized C gytosine from an mRc TA sequence U Uracil mRNA messenger RNA ATP adenosine triphosphate dATP deoxyadenosine triphos TTP Thymidine triphosphate phate EDTA Ethylenedi2minetetra dGTP deoxyguanosine triphos acetic acid phate dCTP deoxycytidine triphos phate The coding relationships between nucleotide sequence in DNA and amino acid sequence in protein are collectively known as the genetic code, showin in Table 3. Table 3 Genetic Code Phenylalanine Phe TTK Histidine His CAK Leucine Leu XTY Glutsmine Gln CAJ Isoleucine Ile ATM Asparagine Asn AK Methionine Met ATG Lysine Lys Valine Val GTL Aspartic acid Asp CAK Serine Ser QRS Glutamic acid Clu CAJ Proline Pro CCL Cysteine Cys TCK Threonine Thr ACL Tryptophan Try TGG Alanine Ala GCL Arginine Arg WGZ Tyrosine Tyr TAK Clycine Gly GGL Termination signal TAJ Termination signal TGA Key Each 3 letter deoxynucleotide triplet corresponds to a trinucleotide of mRNA, having a 5 end on the left and a 3 end on the right. All DNA sequences given herein are those of the strand whose sequence corresponds to the mRNA sequence, with thymine substituted for uracil. The letters stand for the purine or pyrimidine bases forming the deoxynucleotide sequence. A adenine J A or G G guanine K T or C C cytosine L A, T, C or G T thymine M A, C or T X T or C if Y is A or C X C if Y is C or T Y A, G, C or T if X is.C Y A or G if X is T W C or A if Z is A or G W C if Z is C or T Z A, G, C or T if W is C Z A or G if w is A QR TC if S isA, G, C or T QR AG if S is T or C S A, G, C or T if QR is TC S T or C if QR is AG An important feature of the code, for present purposes, is the fact that each amino acid is specified by a trinucleotide sequence, also known as a nucleotide triplet. The phosphodiester bonds joining adjacent triplets are chemically indistinguishable from all other internucleotide bonds in DNA.Therefore the nucleotide sequence cannot be read to code for a unique amino acid sequence without additional information to determine the reading frame, which is the term used to denote the grouping of triplets used by the cell in decoding the genetic message. Many recombinant DNA techniques employ two clsss es of compounds, transfer vectors and restrictions enzymes, to be discussed in turn. A transfer vector is a DNA molecule which contains, inter alia, genetic information which ensures its own replication when transferred to a host microorganism strain. Examples of transfer vectors commonly u sed in bacterial genetics are plasmids and the DNA of certain bacteriophages.Although plasmids have been used as the transfer vectors for the work described herein, it will be understood that other types of transfer vectors may be employed. Plasmid is the term applied to any auto nomously replicating DNA unit which might be found in a microbial cell, other than the genome of the host cell itself. A, plasmid is not genetically linked to the chromosome of the host cell. Plasmid DNAs exist as double stranded ring structures generally on he order of a few million daltons molecular weight, although some are greater than 108 daltons i n molecular weight. They usually represent only a small percent of the total DNA of the cell.Transfer vectorDNA is usually sepa rable from host cell DNA by virtue of the great difference in size between them. Transfer vectors carry genetic information enabling them to replicate within the host cell, inmost cases independently of the rate of host cell division. Some plasmids have the property that their replication..rate can be controlled by the investigator by variations in the growth conditions. By appropriate techniques, the plasmid. DNA ring may be opened, a fragment of heterologous DNA inserted, and the ring reclosed, forming an enlarged molecule comprising the inserted DNA segment. Bacteriophage DNA may carry a segment of heterologous DNA inserted in place of certain non essential phage genes. Either way, the transfer vector serves as a carrier or vector for an inserted fragment of heterologous DNA. Transfer is accomplished by a process known as transformation. During transformation, bacterial cells mixed with plasmid DNA incorporate entire plasmid molecules into the cells. Although the mechanics of the process remain obscure, it is possible to maximize the proportion of bacterial cells capable of taking up plasmid DNA and hence of being transformed, by certain empirically determined treatments. Once a cell has incorporated a plasmid, the latter is replicated within the cell and the plasmid replicas are distributed to the daughter cells when the cell divides.Any genetic information contained in the nucleotide sequence of the plasmid DNA can, in principle, be expressed in the host cell. Typically, a transformed host cell is recognized by its acquisition of traits carried on the plasmid, such as resistance to certain antibiotics. Different plasmids are recognizable by the different capabilities or combination of capabilities which they confer upon the host cell containing them. Any given plasmid may be made in quantity by growing a pure culture of cells containing the plasmid and isolating the plasmid DNA therefrom. Restriction endonucleases are hydrolytic enzymes capable of catalyzing site specific cleavage of DNA molecules. The locus of restriction endonuclease action is determined by the existence of a specific nucleotide sequence. Such a sequence is termed the recognition site for the restriction endonuclease. Restriction endonucleases from a variety of sources have been isolated and characterized in terms of the nucleotide sequence of their recognition sites. Some restriction endonucleases hydrolyze the phosphodiester bonds on both strands at the same point, producing blunt ends.Others catalyze hydrolysis of bonds separated by a few nucleotides from each other, producing free single stranded regions at each end of the cleaved molecule. Such single stranded ends are self complementary, hence cohesive, and may be used to rejoin the hydrolyzed DNA. Since any DNA suscept ible of cleavage by such an enzyme must contain the same recognition site, the same cohesive ends will be produced, so that it is possible to join the heterologous sequences of DNA which have been treated with a restriction endonuclease to other sequences similarly treated. See Roberts, R.J., Crit. Rev.Biochem. 4, 123 1976 . Restriction sites are relatively rare, however the general utility of restriction endonucleases has been greatly amplified by the chemical synthesis of double stranded oligonucleotides bearing the restriction site sequence. Therefore virtually any segment of DNA can be coupled to any other segment simply by attach ing the appropriate restriction oligonucleotide to the ends of the molecule, and subjecting the product to the hydrolytic action of the appropriate restriction endonuclease, thereby producing the requisite cohesive. ends.See Heyneker,H.L., et awl., Nature 263, 748 1976 and Scheller, R.H. et al., Science 196, f77 T1977 . An important feature of the distribution of restriction endonuclease recognition sites is the fact that they are randomly distributed with respect to reading frame. Consequently, cleavage by restriction endonuclease may occur between adjacent codons or it may occur within a codon. More general methods of DNA cleavage or for end sequence modification are available. A variety of non specific endonucleases may be used to cleave DNA randomly, as discussed infra. End sequences may be modified by creation of oligonucleotide tails of dA on one end and dT at the other, or of dG and dC, to create sites for joining without the need for specific linker sequences. The term expression is used in recognition of the fact that an organism seldom if ever makes use of all its genetically endowed capabilities at any given time. Even in relatively simple organisms such as bacteria, many proteins which the cell is capable of synthesizing are not synthesized, although they may be synthesized under appropriate environmental conditions. When the protein product, coded by a given gene, is synthesized by the organism, the gene is said to be expressed. If the protein product is not made, the gene is not expressed. No rmally, the expression of genes in E. coli is regulated as described generally, infra, in such a mannner that proteins whose function is not useful in a given environment are not synthesized and metabolic energy is conserved. The means by which gene expression is controlled in. E.coli is well understood, as the result of extensive studies over the past twenty years. See, generally, Hayes, W., TheGenetics of Bacteria And Their Viruses, 2d edition, JohnWiley Sons, Inc., New York 1968 , and Watson, J.D., TheMolecular Biology of the Gene, 3d edition, Benjamin, MenloPark, California 1976 .These studies have revealed that several genes, usually those coding for proteins carrying out relaled functions in the cell, are found clustered together. in continuous sequence. The clu ster is called an op erQoA All genes in the operon are transcribed in the same direction, beginning with the codons coding for the Nterminal amino acid of the first protein in the sequence and continuing through to the C terminal end of the last protein in the operon. At the beginning of the operon, proximal to the N terminal amino acid codon, there exists a region of the DNA, termed the cont rol region, which includes a variety of controlling elements including the operator, promoter and sequences for the ribosomal binding sites.The function of these sites is to permit the expression of those genes under their control to be responsive to the needs of the organism. For example, those genes coding for enzymes required exclusively for utilization of lactose are normally not appreciably expressed unless lactose or an analog thereof is actually present in the medium. The control region functions that must b e present for expression to occur are the initiation of transcription and the initiation of translation. Expression of the first gene in the sequence is initiated by the initiation of transcription and translation at the position coding for the N terminal amino acid of the first protein of the operon.The expression of each gene downstream from that point is also initiated in turn, at least until a termination signal or another operon is encountered with its own control region, keyed ta respond to a different set of environmental cues. While there are many variations in detail on this general scheme, the import ant fact is that, to be expressed in a procaryote such as E. coli, a gene must be properly located with respect to a control region having initiator of transcription and initiator of translation functions. It has been demonstrated that genes not normally part of a given operon can be inserted with in the operon and controlled by it. The classic demonstration was made by Jacob, F., et al., J. Mol. Biol. 13, 704 1965 . In that experiment, genes coding for enzymes involved in a purine biosynthesis pathway were transferred to a region controlled by the lactose operon.The expression of the purine bio synthetic enzyme was then ob serv e d to be rep ressed in the absence of lactose or a lactose analog, and was rendered unresponsive ta the environmental cues normally regulating its expression In addition to the operator region regulating the initiation of transcription of genesl. downstream from it, there are knawn to exist codons which function as stop signals, indicating the C terminal end of a given protein. See Table 3. Such codons are known as termination signals and also as nonsense codons, since they do not normally code for any amino acid. Deletion of a termination signal between structural genes of an operon creates a fused gene which could result in the synthesis of a chimeric protein consisting of two amino acid sequences coded by adjacent genes, joined by a peptide bond. That such chimeric pro teins are synthesized when genes are, fused was demonstrated by Benzer, S., and. Champe, S, P., Proc. Nat. Acad. Sci. USA, 48, 114 1962 . Once a given gene ha s been isolated,purified and inserted in a transfer vector, the over all result of which is termed the cloning of the gene2 its availability in sub stantial quantity is assured. The cloned gene is trans ferred to a suitable microorganism, wherein the gene rep locates as the microorganism proliferates and from which the gene may be reisola ted by conventional means, Thus is provided a continuously renewable source of the gene for further manipulations, modifications and transfers to other vectors or other loci within the same vector. Expression is obtained by transferring the cloned gene, in proper orientation and reading frame, into a control region such that read through from the procaryotic gene results in synthesis of a chimeric protein comprising the amino acid sequence coded by the cloned gene. A variety of specific protein cleavage techniques may be used to cleave the chimeric protein at a desired point so as to release the desired amino acid sequence, which may then be purified by conventional means. Techniques for constructing an expression transfer vector having the cloud gene in proper juxtaposition. with a control region are described in Polisky, B., et al., Proc.Nat. Acad. Sci USA.73, 3900 1976 Itakura, K., et awl., Science 198, 4056 1977 Villa Komaroff, L. et al., Proc.. Nat. Aca. Sci USA 75, 3727 1978 Mercerau Puijalon,O., et al., Nature 275, 505 1978 , Chang, A.C.Y., et al.,Nature 75, 617 1978 , and in U.S. Application Serial No.933,035 by Rutter, et al. In summary, the process whereby a mammalian protein, such as human pre proinsulin or proinsulin, is produced with the aid of recombinant DNA technology first requires the cloning of the mammalian gene. Once cloned, the gene may be produced in quantity, further modified by chemical or enzy mic means and transfer red to an expression plasmid. The cloned gene is also useful for isolating related genes, or, where a fragment i s cloned, for isolating the entire gene, by using the cloned gene as a hybridization probe.Further, the cloned gene is useful in proving by hybridization, the identity or homology of independent isolates of the same or related genes. Because of the nature of the genetic code, the cloned gene, when translated in the proper reading frame, will direct the production only of the amino acid sequence for which it codes and no other. Some work has been performed on the isolation and puri fication of rat proinsulin. Ullrich, A. et al.,bsupra, and Villa Komaroff, L. st al., supra describe the isolation and and purification of the rat proinsulin gene and a method for transferring this gene to and replicating this gene in a microorganism. Ullrich et al. recovered several recombinant plasmids which contained the coding sequence for proinsulin, the 3t untranslated region and a part of the prepeptide. Expression of the rat DNA containing the insulin coding sequence was disclosed in application 933,035. Villa Komaroff et al. recovered one recombinant plasmid which contained the coding sequence for amino acids 4 86 of proinsulin.This proinsulin sequence was separated from amino acids 24 182 of penicillinase, B lactamase by the coding sequence for six glycines. This penicillinaseproinsulin coding seq uence was expressed to produce a fused protein. These article s describe some .of the basic procedures utilized in recombinant DNA technology. However, they do not describe the isolation and purification of the human pre proinsulin gene or human proinsulin gene. A different approach to obtain human insulin has been taken by Crea, R. et al., Proc. Nat. Acad. Sci USA 75, 5 765 1978 . This approach is to chemically synthesize coding sequences for 1 the A chain and 2 the B chain of human insulin, using codons favored by E. coli. These two sequences can then be inserted into plasmids which can be expressed to produce the A and B chains. Human insulin could then be generated by formation of the correct disulfide bonds between the two protein chains. The cloned gene for human pre proinsulin is useful in a variety of ways. Transposition to an expression transfer vector will permit the synthesis of pre proinsulin by a host microorganism transformed with the vector carrying the cloned gene. Growth of the trans formed host will result in synthesis of pre proinsulin as.part of a chimeric protein. If the procaryotic portion of the fusion protein is the signal portion of an excreted or otherwise compartmentalized host protein, excretion or compa rtNentization can occur greatly enhancing the stability and ease of purification of the pre proinsulin fusion protein.Additionally, where the procaryotic portion is short, excretion from the procaryotic host may be facilitate by the prepeptide itself, if the pre sequence functions in the procaryotic host as it does in the eucaryotic cell. The pre proinsulin gene may also be used to obtain the proinsulin gene using techniques as described below. The cloned pre proinsulin gene can be used in a variety of techniques for the production of pre proinsulin. Preproinsulin itself is useful because it can be converted to proinsulin by known enzymatic and chemical techniques. For example, the prepeptide can be removed by a soluble enzymatic preparation, as described by Blobel, G. et al., supra, specific for removal of signal peptides. The cloned proinsulin gene can be used in a variety of techniques for the production of proinsulin. The proinsulin, produced from either gene, itself is useful because it can he converted to insulin by known enzymatic and chemical techniques. SeeKemmber, W., et al., J. Biol. Chem. 242., 6786 1971 . The present invention includes a process for making aDNA transfer vector for use in maintaining and replicating a deoxynucleotide sequence coding for human pre proinsulin characterized by reacting a deoxynycleotide sequence coding for human pre proinsulin with a DNA molecule prepared by cleaving a transfer vector with a restriction enzyme. As disclosed herein, a cDNA having the base sequence coding for human pre proinsulin and a cDNA having the base sequence coding for human proinsulin have been cloned. The structure of the cloned cDNAs have been verified by nucleotide sequence analysis. The original source of genetic material was human insulinoma an insulin producing tumor . Messenger RNA was isolated from the cells. DNA complementary to the isolated messenger RNA cDNA was synthesized using reverse transcriptase, in two reaction cycles to generate double stranded cDNA, The uncleaved, heterogeneous, double stranded cDNA was treated to provide specific linker oligonucleotide sequences at each end, to facilitate insertion into a site of the same restriction specificity on a transfer vector. For cloning, a transfer vector providing good selection and stable replication properties was selected. The treated cDNA was inserted into a transfer vectpr at a predetermined site on the vector DNA to form a recombinant transfer vector, using currently available techniques. Host microorganism cells were transformed with the recombinant vector.Transformants were selected according to the criteria established for insertion at the predetermined site. Single colonies, each derived from a single transformed microorganism cell, were picked and grown in individual cultures to permit replication of the recombinant transfer vectorDNA clones. Transfer vector DNA was screened for insulin sequences by a modified colony hybridization method.Colonies yielding recombinant transfer vector DNA for insulin sequences were grown in larger individual cultures to isolate transfer vector DNA and to subject it to analysis.Appropriate clones were selected for definitive identification of the nucleotide sequence of the cloned pre proinsulin or proinsulin genes, and for transfer to appropriate expression plasmids. The present invention further provides a process for preparing a deoxynucleotide sequence coding for human proinsulin for use in synthesizing human insulin characterized by hydrolyzing the 31 end of a deoxynucleotide sequence coding for human pre proinsulin, maintained and replicated according to the process of the invention, by one or more cycles of stepwise exonucleolytic digestion catalyzed byT4 DNA polymerase acting in the presence of one deoxy nucléotide triphosphate then hydrolyzing the 5 t ends of said deoxynucleotide sequence by a nuc leolytic digestion catalyzed by a nuclease enzyme specific for single strandedDNA having a 5 end. The present inv enti on further provides a process for synthesizing human proinsulin comprising A and B peptides separated from each other by a C peptide, characterized by incubating a microorganism, transformed by an expression transfer vector comprising a deoxynucleotide sequence coding for said human proinsulin prepared as described wherein, under conditions suitable for expression of said sequenee coding for human proinsulin, and purifying human proinsulin from the lysate or culture medium of said microorganism. The present invention further provides a process for synthesizing human insulin characterized by oxidizing suI hydryl groups on the A and 8 peptides of human proinsulin, prepared as described herein, to form disulfide crosslinks between said A and B peptides, and then excising the C peptide by an enzyme catalyzed hydrolysis specific for the bonds joining the C peptide to the A and B peptides. The present invention provides the essential genetic elements needed for the production of human insulin by techniques adaptable to industrial processes. The naturally occurring structural gene has been cloned. Its expression in an appropriate host cell type, yields a protein product which is convertible to insulin by known methods. The present invention is fundamentally based upon the proinsulin molecule and takes advantage of the fact that the C peptide region of the proinsulin molecule permits a spontaneous folding such that the A and B chains are properly juxtaposed. In such configuration, the correct pairing of suIfhydryl groups is assured and the formation of the disulfide cross links, as found in the active insulin molecule, arp readily formed.Excision of the C peptide is carried out by the combined useof trypsin, or an enzyme having similar substrate specificity, and carboxypeptidaseB end cathepsin B to remove a C terminal arginine on the B strand, as described in the prior art. The entire structural coding portion of the human insulin gene has been cloned as described herein, including a portion of the 5 untranslated region, all of the prepeptide sequence, the entire coding sequence for the B, C andA peptides, and all of the 3 untranslated region. The choice of host cell will affect what portions of the cloned gene is used. The entire pre proinsulin coding sequence will be useful in transforming certain species of higher eucaryotic cells, since the presequence acts as a single peptide to promote excretion of the peptide from the cell. In addition, those eucaryotic cell lines capable of responding to the signal peptide will catalyze the specific removal of the presequence during transport of the protein across the cell membrane. In addiction, such cells may be capable of further processing the expression product by excising the C protein after catalyzing formation of the proper disulfide bonds. In procaryotic host cells, use of the proinsulin coding sequence is presently preferred. The step of converting proinsulin to insulin is carried out in detail using techniques known in the art. Two types of expression are already known, both involve inserting the proinsulin coding sequence in a region of transfer vector DNA whose expression was controlled by a procaryote promoter.In some cases, a portion of the pro caryotic structural gene and the promoter control is interposed such that the expression product is a fusion protein having its N terminal portion composed of the Nterminal part of the procaryotic protein and its C terminal portion is the cloned sequence, in this instance, pro insul i ne Expression of proinsulin as a human protein has the advantage that the fusion protein may be more stable in the host cell than proinsulin itself. In addition, where the procaryotic protein is one that is normally excreted from the host cell, the fusion protein may also be excreted, making it easier to purify the expression product. The use of fusion proteins has a disadvantage that they must be specifically cleaved to yield the desired product.In the case of proinsulin, techniques exist which take advantage of the sequence of the amino acid sequence of the protein, to specifically cleave a fusion proteins described in Example 2. The cloned coding sequence can also be expressed directly in the procaryoti,c cell by inserting the sequence directly adjacent to a promoter. The advantage in this instance is tht specific cleavage is unnecessary. The principle disadvantage is that further purification is necessary. The expression of mammalian genes inserted in E.. coli has now been obtained by insertion near the lac, trp and ss lactamase promoters. The, ls c promotBr i8 useful because its genetics are well characterized. There are two possible insertion sites, providing long and short procaryotic leaders for the fusion protein. A large variety of genetic variants is available, having various levels of endogenous repressor, being temperature inducible and the like. The trp promoter has the advantage of providing high levels of expression when induced. Expression plasmids having inserton sites in the trp promoter are available for all three reading frames.The beta lactamase promoter provides what amounts to a procaryotic signal protein, since the lactamase is normally excreted. The ss lactamase fusion product is also excreted, or found in the periplasmic space. As a result, fewer purification steps will be required to achieve pure proinsulin. The present invention takes advantage of the function of the C peptide of proinsulin, namely to facilitate the spontaneous folding of proinsulin to bring the A and B chains together in the correct configuration such that the sulfhydryl groups are properly paired and the correct disulfide cross links are formed, as found in insulin isolated from nature. Comparison of the C peptide sequences from various species shows that the C peptide sequences are not highly conserved during evolution. Therefore many substitutions of amino acids sequence are possible in the C peptide.In fact, the function of the C peptide may simply be a matter of providing an amino acid loop of proper length to allow the A and B chai nsxto fold together in the proper config uration. Consequently, almost any coding sequence could be inserted in place of the C peptide sequence of human proinsulin without substantially altering its primary function.There are, however, certain advantages favoring the use of the natural C peptide for example, removal of the peptide from the insulin preparations need not be complete, since the C peptide is a natural component of insulin preparations.Further more, it may hold some advantage in conferring the proper configuration on the insulin or in removal by enzymes. The present invention further demonstrates the universality of the genetic code. In particulars codons favored by mammalian cells are correctly translated in E. coli. Sub stitute codons, coding for the same amino acid, could be sub stituted in the sequence without affecting the sequence or function of the expressed protein. Therefore, the present invention is intended to encompass all synthetic coding variance of the basic coding sequence actually cloned here in, insofar as such variance code for human pre proinsulin and human proinsulin. Example I Cloned human pre proinsulin gene. Th e human insulin gene was cloned from RNA isolated from human insulinoma using the procedure described by Ullrich, et al , supra for iso lating RNA from islet cells. The RNA obtained as a pellet other centrifugation in 5.7 M CsC1 containing 100 mM EDTA, was used without further fractzonation as the template for cDNA synthesis using reverse transcriptase and SQ nuclease, as described by Ullrich, et al., supra. Approximately 40 no, of double stranded cDNA,was prepared from 130 ug of unfrac tionated RNA. The unfractionated cDNA was treated with terminal transferase in the presence of dCTP to generate oligo C tails on the 3 termini of the cDNA molecules. Similarly, the plasmid transfer vector pBR322 was cleaved with the restriction endonuclease Pst I and treated with terminal transferase in ,the presence of dGTP to generate oligo dG tails on the 3t t ermini of the linear plasmid DNA. The plasmid DNA thus treate d cannot form a circular DNA since the single stranded ends are not complementary. However, the oligo dC ends of treated cDNA are complementary with the oligo dG ends of the plasmid and can, therefore, be used to form circular plasmids having cDNA inserted at the Pst I site.Furthermore, the insertion regenerates both ends of the Pst I recognition sequences, at both ends of the insert, thereby providing for excision of the inserted sequences. See Villa Komaroff, et l, The foregoing tailing procedure was used to generate pBR 322 plasmids having a heterogeneous population of cDNA inserts at the Pat I site. Such plasmids would be ampicillin sensitive, since the Pst I site is in the B lactamase gene, but remain tetracycline resistant. E. coli stainX1776 was transformed with the plasmid DNA containing inserts.Five hundred and twenty five tetracycline resistant transformants were obtained. These were replica plated and screened for insulin sequences by in situ colony hybridization, essentially as described by Gruenstein and Hogness,Proc. Nat. Acad. Sci. USA 72, 3961 1975 . The previously cloned rat pre proinsulin cDNA Ullrich, A., et al, supra was used as a hybridization probe, after labelling the rat cDNA by nick translation using DNA polymerase I. Since the amino acid sequences of rat and human insulins are quite similar insulin, 92 ó homology proinsulin, 83 ó homology , it was anticipated that the cioned rat cDNA would cross hybrid ize with human insulin sequences under conditions of reduced stringency known in the art.Autoradiographyrevealed that two out of the 525 colonies hybridized with the cloned rat pre proinsulin I probe. Both colonies were ampicillin sensitive. The plasmids isolated from the colonies were approximately 250 base pairs bp and 500 bp longer than pBR322 itself. The larger plasmid was designated pcHI 1. The nucleotide sequence of the inserted cDNA fragment of pcHI 1 was determined by the method of Maxam and Gilbert, Proc. Nat, Acad. Sci. USA 74, 560 1977 . A schematic dia gram of. the insert is shown in Figure 1. The entire coding region fbr human pre proinsulin was contained in the insert, together with a po r fxDn of the 5 untranslated region, all of the 3 untranslated region and part of the 3 polydA region. The restriction sites used to cleave the insert for sequencing are also shown in Fig. 1, together with the direction of sequenceing in each fragment and the regions of overlap The mRNA sequence derived from the cDNA sequence, and the amino acid sequence deduced from one of the reading frames is shown in Fig. 2. The primary structure of human proinsulin determined in this manner agrees precisely with that obtained by previous amino acid sequenceing experiments Dayhoff, M.D., Atlas of Protein Sequence and Structure, 5, Supp. 2, pp. 127 130 1976 and Suppl. 3, pp. 150 151 1978 . The amino acids of the proinsulin coding sequence are numbered from 1 to 86 those of the pre sequence are numbered from 24 to 1.Fig. 2 further shows the location of certain restriction sites useful for the construction of the proinsulin gene from the pcHI 1 insert. It will be understood that the cDNA sequence of the coding strand of the pcHI 1 insert, is the same as that shown in Fig. 2 except that Thymine T is substituted for Uracil U . Large quantities of pcHI 1 and other plasmids are prepared by transforming E. coli HB 101 therewith. TheHB 101 strain therefore serves as a convenient host for maintaining and replicating plasmids having cloned inserts as described he rein. Example 2 Construction of pro ineulin transfer vector. The insert cDNA of pcHI t contains the entire coding sequence for human pre proinsulin. For certain applications, such as transfer to another species of eucaryotic cell, the normal processing and removal of the pre sequence and C peptide, and the attainment of a correctly folded configuration yielding active insulin may be expected. In other circumstances, transfer to a procaryotic. cell such as a bacterium, may be expected to yield the unprocessed protein. In the latter situation, construction of a coding sequence for proinsulin will be advantageous, since proinsulin is readily converted to active insulin in vitro, using techniques well known in the art.See Kemmler, W ., 8t al., 3. Biol. Chem. 242, 6786 1971 . Three alternative methods for construction of a proinsulin coding sequence are disclosed herein. A plasmid transfer vector comprising pBR32Z with an inserted proinsulin coding sequence is designated pcHP 1. A. A chemically s ynthesized coding sequence for the human insulin B chain has been described by Crea, R., et al.,Proc. Nat. Acad. Sci. USA, 75, 5765 1978 . The synthetic nucleotide sequence differsThrom the the naturally occurring sequence disclosed herein because the synthetic sequence was designed to exploit cordon assignments more favoured by a procaryotic host, such as E. coli. Also, a triplet coding for methionine was incorporated just prior to amino acid 1 phe . Fortuitously, however, the two sequences are identical in the region of amino acids 13 14, which region contains the only Alu 1 site common to both sequences. The locations of the Alu I sites on the natural sequence are shown in Fig. 2. Synthetic proinsulin DNA is treated with Alu I endonuclease to yield two fragments of 43 bp and about 56 bp, respectively. Similarly, the cDNA insert of pcHI 1 preferably obtained by Hha I cleavage as described in Example 2B, is cleaved by partial hydrolysis catalyzed by Alu I endonuclease to form fragments of about 75, 90, 110, 135, 165, 200, 245, 275, 375, and 455 bp, respectively these are fractionated by gel electrophoresis to obtain the 375 bp fragment, the result from a single site cleavage in the codon for amino acid number 14. The synthetic gene cleavage fragments and the 375 bp single site cleavage fragment of the cDNA insert are joined by blunt end ligation. Correct joining of the 43 bp synthetic fragment with the 375 bp cDNA fragment in maximized by providing that the 375 bp cDNA is present in molar excess.The possibilities for incorrect joining are also reduced by the fact that the synthetic fragments have single stranded protruding ends that are not complementary with these of the 375 bp cDNA fragment. The joined mo l ecXule , a composite of the synthetic seq cod uenCc ed oi methionine followed by amino acids 1 15, and the naturally occurring sequence coding for amino acids 14 86 of proinsulims constitutes a coding sequence for proinsulin.The proinsulin coding sequence may be inserted in any chosen expression plasmid by either filling or excising the singlestranded ends and then attaching the appropriate linker oligonucleotides. Expression yields a fusion protein which may be cleaved at the methionine residue by treatment with cyanogen bromide to yield proinsulin. Proinsulin is converted to insulin by the method of Kemmler, et al., supra. B. The cDNA insert of pcHI 1 has a Hha t site in the sequence coding for amino acids 14 to 13, as shown in Fig. 2. In addition, the transfer vector pBR322 has a Hha I site just 22 bp from the Pst I site at the 51 end of the insert. It is therefore possible to reisolate a sequence including all of the proinsulin coding sequence and a 22 bp region of pBR322 DNA, by treating pcHI 1 with Hha I endonuclease. This procedure is preferred to re isolating the insert with Pst I endonuclease, since the insert contains two internal Pst I sites and the yield of intact insert DNA by Pst I endonuclease treatment is low. The Hha I isolated sequence is also perfectly suitable for use in the procedures of Examples 2A and 2C herein. Treatment of either isolate with Hha I endonuclease results in cleavage of the plus strand between amino acids 14 and 13 of the pre sequence. The plus strand is defined as the strand whose nucleotide sequence corresponds to the mRNA sequence. Theminus strand is the strand whose sequence is complementary to the mRNA sequence . The remaining pre sequence may be specifically removed by exploiting the 3 to to 5 .exonuclease activity of 14 DNA polymerase, which acts on the minus strand at the pre sequence coding end, and on the plus strand at the opposite end.The exonucleolytic reaction may be stopped at a def ined nucleotide by putting the same nucleotide, in tri phosphate form, in the reaction mixture, The exonucleolytic action is then thwa. rtNewd by the polymerase activity of the enzyme which continually replaces the specific nucleotide, as described by Englund, P.T. in J. Bio. Chem. 24,6, 3269 1971 and in 3. Mol. Biol. 66, 209 1972 . The remaining pre sequence may be digested specifically to the N terminal phenylalanine codon of amino acid number 1 by three cycles of T4 polymerase digestion. Cycle 1 is carried out in the presence of TTP which will terminate digestion opposite the A of the glycine codon in amino acid position 7. Cycle 2 is carried out in the presence of dCTP, which terminates digestion opposite the G of codon position 5 Asp . Cycle 3 is carried out in the presence of dATP which terminates digestion opposite the T which is the first nucleotide of position 1 of proinsulin. After each cycle of T4 polymerase digestion, the triphosphate of the just completed cycle must be removed and the triphosphate for the forthcoming cycle introduced. Minicolumns of Sephadex G075 Sephadex is a Trademark ofPharmacia, Inc., Uppsala, Sweden are employed to separate triphosphates from the reaction mixture. The columns may be equilibrated with a suitable buffer and samples collected in a buffer containing the triphosphate of the succeeding cycle. In this way, enzyme comigrating with the DNA will not digest the DNA beyond the next selected stopping point.To prevent such digestion in the lower part of the column after resolution of the preceding triphosphate, the chroma tography is carried out in the cold 40C and elution is hastened by centrifugation. Alternatively, the enzyme is heat inactivated at 650C before the chromatography step.The succeeding cycle is then.initiated by addition of fresh, active enzyme. As a result of three T4 polymerase digestion cycles, the minus strand of the DNA is digested completely and specifically to the first codon of the proinsulin coding sequence. The sequence of the plus strand at the opposite end of the molecule which also has a 3 end, is such that only a few nucleotides are removed by the foregoing cycles of digestion. The plus strand at the pre sequence end is then specifically digested with S1 exonuclease, which acts on single stranded ends to yield a blunt ended molecule. Care must be taken ta prevent partial digestion by 51 nuclease beyond the beginning of the first codon. Such partial digestion may occur because of helix breathing , a partial and transitory unpairing of DNA strands. Breathing occurs throughout the molecule but most frequently in A T rich regions and at the ends of DNA molecules. A transitory unpairing at the A T rich codon number 1 could permit S1 nucleolytic action beyond the desired stopping point.Such a result is prevented by carrying out S1 digestion under conditions of maximum helix integrity low temperature room temperature or less and high salt which is normally employed in S1 reaction buffer. Samples of DNA obtained at successive stages of 51 nuclease digestion are cloned into a suitable transfer vector according to procedures known in the art. Sequence analysis of the smallest Alu I fragment of such clones is used to screen for pro insulin coding clones having the entire pre sequence removed. An attractive method for cloning the proinsulin coding cDNA involves the incorporation of oligo A tails, using terminal transferanee, on the 3 ends of the cDNA. Oligo T tails are generated on the 3 end at suitable site on an expression transfer vector, such as the EcoR1 site in the 8 galactosidase gene on plasmid pT5 Ullrich, A., et al .See also U.S. Patent Application 933, 035. Insertion of the proinsulin coding cDNA by the foregoing method yields a correctly oriented insert in phase as to reading frame with the ss galactosidase gene of the plasmid with a 1 6 probability. Expression of the oligo A tails results in the incorporation of lysine residues just prior to the beginning of the proinsulin sequence. Mild trypsin digestion of the fusion protein yields proinsulin, which is converted to active insulin as previously described. Alternatively, the fusion protein is treated with a combination of trypsin and carboxypeptidase B or cathepsin B to yield active insulin from the fusion protein in a single reaction. C. A proinsulin coding sequence is constructed by selective cleavage at an internal site in the proinsulin coding region, followed by ligation of a chemically synthesized sequence, coding for that part of the proinsulin coding region removed by the previous cleavage. The plasmid pcHI 1 is used as a source of the proinsulin coding region, which is selectively excised by treatment with Pst I endonuclease or preferably by treatment with Hha I endonuclease, as described in Example 2B. Either fragment, after isolation is treated with alkaline phosphatase to remove the 5 terminal phosphate groups, then cleaved by trsatinnt with a restriction endonuclease having a unique cleavage point in the proinsulin coding sequence. Preferably the restriction site is located near one of the ends of the proinsulin coding sequence. The Alu I site in region of amino acids 13 14 provides a convenient cleavage point see Fig. 2 . The Hha I fragment of pcHI 1 is partially cleaved with Alu I endonuclease to generate two fragments of approximately 76bp and approximately 375 bp, respectively. The Alu I fragments are fractionated by gel electrophoresis, as described in Example 2A, and the 375 bp fragment is recovered. A nucleotide sequence coding for the first 13 amino acids of proinsulin with a 5r terminal E on the plus stra nd , to complete the codon for ala nine at position 14, is synthesi 2ed by the phosphotriester methods, Itakura, K., et al., 3. Biol. Chem. 250, 4592 1975 and Itakura, K., et al., 3. AM. Chem. Soc. 97, 7327 1975 . The plus strand of the synthetic DNA has the sequence 3 TTTGTCAACCAACACCTG TGCEGCTCACACCTGGTGGAAC 5 , corresponding to the natural sequence. However, other sequences coding for the same amino acids may be synthesized. In general the sequence is 3 TTKGTLAAKCAJCAKXTYTGKGGLQRSCAKXTYGTLCAJG 5 .The result ing sequence is blunt end ligated with the approximately 375bp fragment of the Hha I fragment of pcHI 1. Since the latter has a 5 phosphate only at the end to be joined, the two fragments will be joined in the correct order. The synthetic fragment is correctly joined to the larger frag ment in approximatly 50 of the reactions. The ligase treated DNA is then cloned into a suitable expression plasmidt either by oligo A tailing, as described in Example 2B, or by attachment of linkers and insertion into expression plasmids of known reading frames. In the case of oligo A iled inserts, expression of proinsulin is observed in about 1 12 of the clones. In the case of direct insertion where the reading frame is known to be correct, the frequency of expression clones is about 50 . Example 3 Expression of human pre proinsulin andpr Dinsulin. The cloned inserts coding for pre proinsulin Example 1 or proinsulin Example 2 are inserted in an expression transfer vector. When the insertion occurs in the correct orientation with respect to initiation of translation at the insertion site, and the insert is in reading frame phase with the promoter and ribosome binding site, the protein product of the cloned gene is synthesized by actively metabolizing host cells transformed by the transfer vector. The protein product is a fusion protein if the expression transfer vector contains a portion of a procaryotic gene between the promoter and the insertion site. However the insertion may be made immediately adjacent to a promoter site.In such cases, the protein coded by the insert is synthesized direct ly. Both techniques present advantages and disadvantages. Fusion proteins have the advantage that they tend to stabilize the foreign protein coded by the inserted gene. Also, desirable functional properties such as excretion from the host cell are conferred by fusion with certain host proteins such as 8 lactamase. On the other hand, purification of the insert coded sequence is complicated by the general desirability of specifically removing the host portion of the fusion protein. Such removal is accomplished by known techniques as described in Examples 2A and 2B. Direct syn thesis of the desired protein obviates the need for specific cleavage but generally precludes the possibility of excretion from the host cell. Expression plasmids have been developed wherein express ion is controlled by the lac promoter Itakurset al., Science 198, 1056 1977 , Ullrich, A., et al., Excerpta.Hedica, 1979 by the trp promoter Martial, et alr Science 205, 602, 1979 and by the ss lactamase promoter, U.S. application.Serial No. 44,647. Expression is detected by measurement of a product cap able of binding immunochemically with anti insulin antibody, or anti proinsulin antibody. Radioimmunoass ay, in which the antibody is rÅadioactively labelled and antigen antibody pairs are precipitated by apreparation of heat killed Staphylococcu atreus C is employed. See Morgan and Lazarnw, Diabetes 1Z, 11 5 1961 and Kessler, S.W.,.J.8immunoi.,. 115 1617 197S7. Radioimmune screeningss as described by Erlich, H.A., et al.,Cell 1O, 681 1978 or by Broome, S. and Gilbert, W., Proc.Nat. Acad. Sci. USA, 75, 2746 1978 , is used for detecting expression in bacterial colonies. Fusion proteins indicative of expression are detected by comparing molecular weights of the host protein contributing the N terminal part of the fusion protein in host cells transformed by expression plasmids with and without an insert.A preferred variant is to employ the minicell producing E. coli strain P678 54 as host. Radioactively labelled amino acids are incorporated into minicell proteins, comparing strains transformed with expression transfer vectors with and without the inserted proinsulin coding sequence. The proteins are fractionated by SDS acrylamide gel electrophoresis and the protein positions detected by autoradiography. Expression of proinsulin is indicated by the presence of a labelled protein band found only in minicells transformed by the proinsulin expression plasmid. The position of the electrophoretic band provides a measure of the molecular weight of the expressed protein, and is consistent with the known length of the inserted gene and of the N terminal procaryotic portion. Removal of the procaryotic portion and conversion of proinsulin to insulin in vitro are carried out by known procedures, as described in detail supra.