# Low emissions prevaporization type combustor assembly.

## Abstract
The invention comprises a prevaporization type combustor assembly for gas turbine engines particularly adapted to reduce exhaust emissions to meet automotive requirements Fuel is laid on a wall 68 of a cylindrical prechamber 36 and evaporated from the wall by combustion air which is introduced through a swirler 38 at the upstream end of the prechamber. The inner surface 66 of the prechamber is artificially roughened by a grid of grooves 78, 80 to improve fuel evaporation. The fuel is laid on the wall from an annular manifold 70 extending around the upstream end of the prechamber through tangential orifices 76 leading from the manifold into the interior of the prechamber. More air enters through entrance ports 84 distributed around the prechamber towards its downstream end. The resulting lean fuel air mixture is delivered past an annular flow dam 64 at the outlet of the prechamber into a domed combustor chamber forming a reaction zone 28 which is abruptly enlarged from the prechamber. Still other air bypasses the prechamber and is directed through ports 104 formed in the dome of the combustor chamber where swirlers 106 direct the bypassed air into prevaporized fuel and air from the prechamber. The structure reduces pressure drop across the flow dam 64 while enhancing turbulent flow, recirculation, and good mixing in the reaction zone 28 . A dilution zone 30 downstream of the reaction has a circumferential array of dilution air ports which are of such shape as to be varied non linearly in area by a sliding ring valve 120 . The sliding ring valve is coupled to a second sliding ring valve 118 which varies the area of the air entrance ports in the prechamber 36 in a reverse sense to the dilution air ports.