# Device for character alignment in a serial printer.

## Abstract
A serial printer, which uses detent alignment of closely spaced type slugs 11 on a print wheel 1 . The detent alignment print hammer 15 is shaped 29 to avoid direct contact with type slugs 11 adjacent the desired type slug. The hammer 15 is shaped to cause the adjacent slugs 11 to be swept aside. Optionally, the character slugs may have tapered sides 31 to assist in the sweeping action.

## Claims
Claims 1. A serial printer in which character slugs ll having shaped alignment surfaces 11 are mounted on print wheel 1 and are rotated through a print station t, and a detent alignment print hammer l5 having a corresponding shaped alignment surface l9 is positioned to strike slugs 11 at the print station 2 , characterized in that the print hammer l5 is shaped 29 to cause adjacent character slugs ll to be swept aside. 2. The serial printer of Claim 1 wherein at least a portion of said character slugs lX have tapered sides 31 .

## Description
Serial printer The invention relates to serial printers and, more particularly, to high speed serial printers having print fonts arranged upon a disc member, which rotates the fonts past an impacting printing hammer at a print station generally designated as 2.In such printing systems, it is necessary to accurately position the print head as the print head contacts the print ribbon so that the printed characters will be aligned and spaced evenly. One method for assuring alignment of the print characters is shown in U.S.Patent 3,840,105. In that patent there is disclosed the use of a male shaped surface on the back of the print fonts, which is made to fit into a corresponding shaped female surface on the print hammer. As the print hammer moves into contact with the type font at a print station, the font is forced by the shaped surfaces to align with the print hammer resulting in aligned printed characters. This system is referred to herein as detent alignment. Because of room constraints around the print wheel circumference, character slugs must be placed immediately adjacent to one another, sometimes resulting in as little as several mils separation between adjacent characters. The detent alignment technique, however, requires a fairly wide hammer to ensure capture of the character slug.It can be seen accordingly that the print hammer can strike or at least cause a twisting torque to character slugs or type fonts adjacent the desired font. This is undesirable not only because of the damage the twisting impact can cause the adjacent font support beam, but because of the interference that can occur between the adjacent beam and the desired font support beam causing adjacent character printing and print misalignment. The invention as claimed is intended to provide a remedy. It solves the problem of how to design an alignment print hammer for aligning type fonts that will work satisfactorily even when the type fonts are relatively close together. This is accomplished by tapering the sides of the print hammer or type slugs or both. Both is preferable as explained below. One way of carrying out the invention is described in detail below with reference to the drawings, which illustrate only one specific embodiment, in which Figure 1 is a perspective view of the disc print wheel, hammer and motor drive of this invention. Figure 2 is a top view representation of the prior art detent alignment system showing a print hammer and two character slugs. Figure 3 is a top view representation of the detent alignment print hammer and two character slugs in accordance with this invention. The Figures show a serial printing apparatus including a print wheel disc generally designated as 1, a motor 5 for driving the print wheel and a print hammer 15 for striking and aligning the type font or character slugs 11. The print wheel 1 is mounted for rotation on shaft 3 of motor 5. Motor 5 can move wheel 1 in either a clockwise or counterclockwise direction as indicated by arrows 7. Print wheel 1 contains a plurality of outward extending beams or spokes 9 having print heads 11 formed thereon. On one face of print heads 11 are formed characters 13. The face of print heads 11 facing detent alignment hammer 15 is dihedral alignment surface 17 shaped to mate with the dihedral alignment opening 19 in alignment print hammer 15. The beams or spokes are bonded in hub 21, which is fitted to shaft 3 of motor 5. The prior art hammer and print heads are shown in Figure 2. As seen in Figure 2, the print hammer 15 is roughly aligned with the type slug lla. It can be seen that as hammer 15 is moved by, for example, a solenoid towards the type font lla in direction 27 and engages surface 17, that further movement in direction 27 towards the print ribbon not shown will cause hammer 15 to strike edge 28 of print head llb causing interference with the smooth flight of print head lla and causing a twisting torque of the beam supporting head llb and undesirable adjacent character printing. Referring now to Figure 3, there is seen a detent alignment print hammer 15 and type fonts or character slugs Ila and llb in accordance with this invention A portion of the sides of print hammer 15 has been removed to form tapered portion 29. It can be seen that when hammer 15 is moved forward in direction 27, character slug llb, the adjacent slug, will be swept aside by print hammer taper surface 29 instead of being directly impacted. A further improvement in operation is obtained where the type slugs are also tapered as shown in Figure 3.Here the sides of the larger type slugs represented by slug llb in Figure 3 are removed to form slanted surface 31. Not only has it been found that by tapering the surface of slugs ll,a greater misalignment between print hammer 15 and type slug lla can be tolerated, but it has been found that print wheel 1 can be rotated in a direction 7 while the print hammer 15 is in a forward position, which could increase printing speed. Obviously, surfaces 29 and 31 could be made in other shapes, for example, fillet, bevel, flute, etc. As will be obvious to one skilled in the art, there are many modifications to the invention, which will present themselves. All such modifications as naturally occur to those skilled in the art are deemed to fall within the scope of the attached claims. The illustrative embodiment depicted in the attached drawings is considered merely as an exemplary representation of one of the ways of practicing the invention.