# Anti electromagnetic radiation shield panel, structure designed with such panels, and method for the manufacturing thereof.

## Abstract
There is described an anti electromagnetic radiation shield panel for constructing spaces which are protected against said radiations, which is comprised of at least two layers of material between which is arranged a protective layer against said radiations. A structure designed with such panels and a method for the manufacture thereof are also described.

## Claims
CLAIMS. 1. Anti electromagnetic radiation shield panel for constructing spaces which are protected against said radiations, which is comprised ofat least two layers of material between which is arranged a protective layer against said radiations. 2. Panel as defined in claim 1, in which said protective layer against electromagnetic radiations is comprised of a metal or mete alloy. 3. Panel as defined in claim 1, in which said protective layer against electromagnetic rediations is comprised of a foil. 4. Panel as defined in claim 1, in which said protective layer.against electromagnetic radiations is comprised of a plate. 5. Panel as defined in claim 1, in which said protective layer against electromagnetic radiations is comprised of wires. 6. Panel as defined in claim 1, in which said protective layer against electronagnetic radiations is comprised of a fabric. 7. Panel as defined in claim 1, in which said protective layer against electromagnetic radiations is comprised of a knitted material. 8. Panel as defined in claim 1, in which said protective layer against electromagnetic radiations is comprised of an agglomerate. 9. Panel as defined in claim 1, in which said protective layer against electromagnetic radiations is comprised of a non woven material. 10. Panel as defined in claim 1, in which said protective layer against electromagnetic radiations is comprised of powders. 11. Panel as defined in claim 1, in which said protective layer against electromagnetic ra diations is comprised of a honeycomb structure. 12. Panel as defined in claim 1, in which said layers between which is enclosed said protec tive layer against electromagnetic raRations, have a foam structure. 13. Panel as defined in claim 12, in which said layers are made from synthetic foam. 14. Panel as defined in claim 1, in which said protective layer against electromagnetic ra diations and those layers between which said first layer is arranged, are chemically joined together. 15. Panel as defined in claim 14, in which said chemical joining is obtained by gluing or cemen ting. 16. Panel as defined in claim 1, which is provided on at least one side with at least one sound or heat isolating layer. 17. Panel as defined in claim 1, in which said protective layer against electromagnetic ra diations projects out of the panel adjacent that edge thereof which is to be connected to another panel, possibly at an angle thi ewith. 18. Panel as defined in claim 17, in which said protective layer against electromagnetic ra diations projects out of the panel at the level of a groove which will be filled with a protective, prefe rably resilient jointing mass. 19. Panel as defined in claim 1, in which at least on the panel outer side, there is provided a finishing layer which forms an overlapping for the edge of a following panel to be connected therewith, possibly at an angle thereto. 20. Panel as defined in claim 1, in which the edges of two panels to be connected together are made fast together along one direction at least by a so called tongue and groove connection. 21. Panel as defined in claim 1, in which the edges from two panels to be connected together are fastened together along one direction at least by a so called snap connection. 22. Panel as defined in claim 1, in which two panels connecting together are retained pulled together by mechanical sealing or locking means. 23. Panel as defined in claim 1, in which the panel is strengthened by a small beam along one direction at least. 24. Panel as defined in claim 1, which is strengthened in one direction at least by a flat iron. 25. Method for building a protective structure against electromagnetic radiations, in which when connecting at an angle two panels as defined in claim 1, those strips projecting out of the panel from the protective layers against electromagnetic ra .. diations, are bent towards one another and laid over one another, after which the obtained overlapping, possibly after gluing or cementing, is covered with a corresponding profiled section. 26. Method for building a protective against electromagnetic radiations with panels as defined in claim 1, in which when connecting overlapping components, that preferably triangular groove between two panels is filled with a resilient sealing joining mass.

## Description
Anti electromagnetic radiation shield panel, structure designed with such panels, and method for the manufacturing thereof . This invention relates to an anti electromagnetic radiation shield panel for constructing spaces which are protected against such radiations. Due to increasing use of electromagnetic radiation sensitive apparatus, it has become necessary to have structures which shpld completely against such radiations. Structures which provide radiation free spaces have to be comprised of walls, floors and a roof assernbly which are preferably build up from modular components such as panels. It is thus essential thereby that said panels make possible the forming of uninterrupted structures both in the horizontal plane and the vertical plane. Said panels have thus to be protective in themselves, but the seam or junction between said panels has also to insure a continuous shielding. When manufacturing shield structure or panels, the shielding material has been arranged up to now along one side thereof in such a way that special arrangements had to be provided to guard said material against punctures, damaging or other causes of leaks . The invention has for object to provide an original solution which obviates the above drawbacks and other drawbacks from the panels known up to now. For this purpose, the panel according to the invention is comprised of at least two layers of material beween which is arranged a protective layer against said radiations. In a preferred embodiment, those layers between which is enclosed said protective material against electromagnetic radiations, are comprised of synthetic material foam. The invention further pertains to a method for manufacturing panels according to the invention or structures obtained therefrom. other details and features of the inven tion will stand out from the following description given by way of non limitative example and with refe rence to the accompanying drawings, in which Figures 1 to 3 are section views through various corner connections between two panels. Figures 4 and 5 are section mews through panel connections according to the invention. The panels as shown in the figures may be considered as sandwich panels wherein the protec tive layer 1 against radiation is enclosed between two layers 2 from synthetic material. The connection between layer 1 and each synthetic foam layer 2 is made very simply and efficiently by gluing both materials. The synthetic foam layer 2 may be made from P.V.C or similar, while layer 1 may be formed by a foil, plate, fabric, knitted material, so called non woven1,material, wires, powders, agglo ,meates, honeycombs, or combinations thereof. The protective layer against electromagne tic radiations is a well known material. As exam ple therefrom may be mentioned the products sold by the firm Emerson and Cumming under the names ECCOSHIELD , WP3.CU or WP3.SS . Of course other products with the same properties are to be conside red. The glued connection of said various mate rials with foam layer 2 provides a very coherent material. The thickness of both layers 2 is so se lected that puncturing of said layers by inserts or nails is not to be feared. It is not only due to a deep enough thick ness of said layers but also due to the selection of a suitable foam structure that screws or other inserts may be used which will not pierce the protective layer 1 while still being embedded in said material strongly enough to make the fastening of all kinds of components possible. An advantage of the panels according to the invention is further to be found in oxidizing of the protective layer having no more to be feared as said layer is nowhere exposed to air. The uni form chemical binding of the protective layer 1 with foam layers 2 forms a structure having increased mechanical properties relative to such structures known up to now where the protective layer was fas tened locally to the wall or panel outer surface. Along at least one side but preferably along both inner and outer sides, the panel is further finished with finishing layers 3. A suita cable material therefor is formed by fibre glass reinforced polyester plates. Where required, a flat iron 4 figure 1 may further be mounted along at least one side to strengthen said panel. Said flat iron may also be fastened to the outer finishing layer 3 by gluing or cementing in 5. In the corner connection which is clearly shown with a section view in figure 1, the one panel is further provided with a small beam 6 and it is clear that such small beams from wood or metal, pos sibly from a suitable synthetic material, might be provided in other locaticns. To avoid any possibility of leaking for the electromagnetic radiations, the protective layer 1 reaches outside the panels shown both in 7 and in 8. This occurs at the level of grooves 9 which are filled afterwards with a resilient jointing mass 10 figure 1 . Those free strips overlapping each other from layer 1 of panel 7 and layer 1 of panel 8 may be cemented to one another with a tape 11, after which the corner connection proper may be finished on the Outer side, with an angle section 12. Said angle section may as well as the other components, be glued or cemented to the panels. It appears very clearly from the above description that the protective layer 1 is guarded against any puncture and damage and that the corner connections obtained thereby make under any condi tion, the leaking m of harmful electromagnetic ra diations impossible ffie 18Cfigure 1 is further provi ded outside said foam layers 2 and finishing layers 3, with an upstanding flange 13 having a bevelled free edge which forms together with the one fini shing layer 3 from panel 7, a groove 14 which is filled with the above mentioned resilient jointing mass in the shape of a tape 15. In figure 2 is shown a first variation of a corner connection between two panels 7 and 8. In this embodiment for each panel the protective layer 1 projects outside said panels in such a way that the mutually overlapping strips from the pro tective layers 1 cover a larger area. In this case also said strips are joined together by tapes 11. In the variation as shown in figure 3, the protective layer 1 runs so far in each panel 7 or 8 that a protective jointing tape 30 can connect both ends edges from said strips. The connecting tape 30 which is bent at an angle, has the same anti electromagnetic properties as said layers 1. The corner connection may be finished along the inner surface of the corner proper, with a foam material section 31. Figure 4 shows a section through a sidewise connection between two panels 16 and 17, both provi ded with a central protective layer 18, synthetic material layers 19, and inner and outer layers 20 which run out towards one another in the center area to form a connection having a tongue 21 and a groove 22. Those edges from protective layer 18 projecting outside said panels 16 and 17 are laid over or inside one another, while panel 16 is connected to panel 17 by using mechanical sealing means 23. Said sealing means may be ofany suitable and known type which makes it possible to pull the panels 16 and 17 together. It is clear that the connection by means of such or similar mechanical closing or sealing means may also be used for connecting two panels at an angle to one another r whereby the one panel is provi ded with an L shaped edge or flange. As shown in figure 5, panels 24 and 25 may be fastened together by means of a so called snap connection . In this case also the protective layer 26 runs out of the panel and said panel 25 has two lugs 27 which may be locked in the narrowed portion 28 of head 29 from panel 24. With such a connection also it is possible to use mechanical sealing means or to provide for gluing or cementing when the connection between two panels at least may be considered as a final struc ture. From the above description of the panels according to the invention and of the method for designing protective structures against electromagne tic radiations, it is clear that the required continuity between the various protective layers may be obtained in a very efficient way. Said various layers are then also generally protected against damaging or puncturing in such a way that it is no more to be feared that when mounting the panels or later on when driving nails or similar, the leaks to be avoided will occur. It is also clearthatbothe exception of the above described essential components, the panels may according to local or temporaty requirements, have a more intricate shape or another finished profile. It is also clear that heat or sound isolating mate trials may be used in various locations and with va rious sizes or thicknesses. It must be understood that the invention is in no way limited to the above embodiments and that many changes can be brought therein wifflhout depar ting from the scope of the invention as defined in the appended claims.