# Cloth molding process.

## Abstract
A method of molding cloth. A special multi layer cloth is first preheated and then drawn into a heated mold by means of a vacuum between the cloth and the mold. The cloth includes a fabric layer having a heat fixable fiber, stitches of the fabric having never been thermally set, a polyurethane foam layer and a polyvinyl chloride film layer bonded together. The cloth is preheated to at least the greater of the set temperature of the fabric layer and the softening tempera ture of the polyvinyl chloride film. The mold is heated to at least the same temperature. After the cloth has conformed to the contours of the mold, the cloth is either cooled in the mold or transferred to a cooler mold. The steps of heating the cloth in the mold and then cooling the cloth sets the stitch of the fabric to the contours of the mold. Polyurethane foam may then be poured into the mold and allowed to expand to form a seat cushion or the like.

## Claims
Claims L. A process for molding cloth including a fabric layer having a heat fixable fiber, and an elastic composition layer bonded to the fabric layer comprising drawing the cloth into a mold, heating the cloth to at least the heat fixable fiber set temperature and cooling the cloth so as to set the heatfixable fiber of the cloth to the shape of the mold. 2. A process according to claim 1 wherein the elastic composition layer includes a thermoplastic film layer the cloth being heated to at least the greater of the set temperature of the heat fixable fiber and the softening temperature of the fi m layer whereby, on cooling, both the heat fixable fiber and the film layer are set to the shape of the mold. 3. A process according to claim 1 or claim 2 wherein the cloth is drawn into the mold, the mold having a temperature at least equal to the heat fixable fiber set temperature and the mold heats the cloth to at least the heat fixable fiber set temperature or, where the elastic composition layer includes a thermoplastic film layer, the mold having a temperature at least equal to the greater of the heat fixable fiber set temperature and the softening temperature of the film layer, and the cloth is heated to at least the greater of the set temperature and the softening temperature. 4. A process acccording to claim 2 or claim 3 wherein the elastic composition layer includes, in addition to the thermoplastic film layer a flexible foam layer. 5. A process according to any one of claims 1 to 3 further comprising pouring foam into the mold, so as to fill the revezze side of the molded cloth with foam. 6. A process according to any one of claims 1 to 5 wherein the fabric has never been thermally set. 7. A process according to claim 6 wherein the cloth is heated to the required temperature during drawing of the cloth into the mold. 8. A process according to claim 3 wherein, after heating the cloth to at least the heat fixable fiber set temperature the cloth is drawn into another mold having a temperature less than the fiber set temperature. 9. A process according to any one of the preceding claims wherein the mold surface bears a pattern. 10. A process according to any one of thc preceding claims further comprising preheating the cloth prior to drawing the cloth into the mold. 11. Molded cloth or a cloth covered molded item when produced by the process according to anyone of the preceding claims. 12. A process for molding cloth comprising the steps of drawing the cloth into a mold, the cloth including a fabric layer, stitches of the fabric having never been thermally set, and an elastic composition layer bonded to the fabric layer and fixing the shape of the cloth to maintain the mold contours.

## Description
CLOTH MOLDING PROCESS BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION This invention relates to a method of molding cloth, and more particularly, to a method of molding a multi layer, vacuum formable cloth which may be employed as the outer covering of seat cushions, acoustical dividers and the like. The traditional method of making upholstered seat cushions involves 1 cutting the cover material according to an appropriate pattern 2 sewing the cut material and 3 stuffing the cushion. High labor costs result, since, in many situations, the cutting and sewing operations are extensive and much must be performed by hand. To reduce the cost of manufacturing seat cushions, a molding process was devised for manufacturing seat cushions comprising a foam portion having an integral vinyl cover. The vinyl covering is first heated and then drawn into a cold mold by means of a vacuum between the vinyl and the mold. As the vinyl cools, it assumes the contours of the mold. Foam is then poured into the mold to form the integral foam portion of the seat cushion,This process significantly reduces manufacturing costs and results in a superior seat. However, cloth has many advantages over vinyl. Specifically, cloth is water vapor permeable. Perspiration that normally collects behind a person sitting in a vinyl seat can pass through cloth and be evaporated so that cloth feels cooler during warm weather and warmer during cold weather. Furthermore, the feel of the cloth, the hand , is much more luxurious and elegant. To reduce the expense of cloth covered seats, attempts have been made to develop cloth molding processes similar to that described above with respect to vinyl. U.S. Patent 3,954,537 toAlfter et al discloses a process for producing multi layer sheets having a polyurethane foam layer bonded to a cross linked polyethylene foam layer.Alfter et al discloses that it is particularly advantageous to join the foam layers with further layers such as fabric to form upholstery components.Alfter relies on the strength of the bond between the polyurethane foam and polyethylene foam to accomplish the molding. However polyurethane foam in an uncured state can easily change shape. SinceAlfter relies on the bonding of two foam layers, and not on the setting in some manner of the outer fabric layer, intricate detail is most likely not possible, and since polyurethane foam in an uncured state can change shape easily, it appears likely that the fabric layer would tend to return to its flat shape. German Offenlegungsschrift 2,227,143 toBayer AG, discloses a seat cushion with a textile cover and a foam core. A fabric is bonded to a polyether urethane foam layer which in turn is bonded to a film sealing layer. This multi layer fabric is first heated to 700C 158OF and ten drawn into a mold. A soft foam is then poured into the mold to form a seat cushion. The following patents describe methods of forming a multi layer cloth similar to that described above U.S. Patent 3,941,633 Wang et al 1976 U.S. Patent 3,933,548 Anderson et al 1976 U.S. Patent 3,748,217 May et al 1973 British Patent 1,227,760 Dunlop 1971 Although the cloth molding processes described in Bayer and Alfter do work with some molds and fabrics, the applications are rather limited. For example, the Bayer Patent recites that only elastic knit fabrics may be employed. The complexity of the mold pattern is also significantly limited. In the Bayer and Alfter processes, the molded fabric will not retain the contours of more intricate or sharp mold features. One of the problems with the prior art procedures is that the stitch of the fabric layer is not set in the shape of the mold. Therefore, the fabric layer tends to pull against the other cloth layers or the underlying foam core. Over time, details of the mold will tend to flatten. SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION The nearly universal method of making fabric induces characteristics in the fabric which tend to work against a cloth molding process. After a fabric is knitted or woven, the fabric may then be bleached and either piece dyed or printed provided the yarn forming the fabric had not been dyed .After dyeing or after knitting or weaving, if yarn dyeing was employed the fabric is subjected to any one of a number of processes which are collectively called finishing. One of the most common finishing processes is tentering which sets the dimensions of a piece of fabric after knitting or weaving and dyeing. A tentering machine stretches the preferably wet fabric to shape as the fabric is passed over a source of heat. The heat serves to set the fabric stitch so that the fabric maintains the desired dimensions after removal from the tentering machine. During the calendering process, another commonly employed finishing step, fabric passes between a series of heavy, heated, steel rollers at pressures up to 2000 lbs. per square inch. Not only does the calendering process give the fabric a smooth and even luster, but also, the process sets the stitch of the material. Modern high speed production, not natural processes, cause shrinkage in cotton, nylon, rayon, and wool. The whole process of manufacture, from fiber procurement or creation, to final calendering subjects the fibers to constant stretching. To control shrinkage typically, a sample of material is washed and the shrinkage is measured. The degree of shrinkage of the sample piece is used to determine the degree to which larger pieces will shrink. The larger pieces are then mechanically compressed back to the dimensions it would have had if it had not been stretched during manufacturing. To accomplish this, the damp pieces are placed in firm contact with an elastomeric layer which is stretched over a roller. When the layer is allowed to contract, the cloth contracts with it The stitch of the fabric is then heat set to the smaller dimensions. Thus in many of the most common finishing steps the stitch of the fabric is heat set. These finishing processes are so common that it is difficult to obtain fabric, particularly synthetics, wherein the stitch has not been set. In fact, even some dyeing processes set the fabric stitch by subjecting the fabric to heat while under tension. Typical piece dyeing involves forming a rope with the piece of fabric. The rope is then circulated through a dye bath and a dryer under tension. This tends to set the fabric stitch. When the fabric stitch is heat set, the elasticity of the fabric is significantly reduced.Upholsterers in the past have found this characteristic particularly advantageous. A sewn cushion will become baggy with use if the fabric of the cover is too elastic. Heat setting solves the bagging problem. However, if the fabric elasticity is reduced the fabric will not be drawn into more intricate mold patterns and will not retain its shape. The Bayer disclosure teaches tho necessity of employing an elastic fabric in an attempt to overcome this problem. Almost any fabric has sufficient elasticity to be employed in the cloth molding process of the present invention, prior to finishing processes which set the fabric stitch. Furthermore, once the stitch of the fabric is set, it is rather difficult to recover the elasticity that the fabric originally had. We have found that it is particularly advantageous, and now propose to set the stitch of the fabric layer in the mcld. According to one aspect of the invention, therefore, a process for molding cloth including a fabric layer having a heat fixable fiber which, in a preferred embodiment has never been thermally set, and an elastic composition layer bonded to the fabric layer comprises drawing the cloth into a mold, heating the cloth to at least the heat fixable fiber set temperature, and cooling the cloth so as to set the heat fixable fiber of the cloth to the shape of the mold. The elastic composition layer may include a thermoplastic film layer, in which case the cloth is heated to at least the greater of the set temperature of the heat fixable fiber and the softening temperature of the film layer whereby, on cooling, both the heatfixable fiber and the film layer are set to. the shape of the mold. According to another aspect of the invention a process for molding cloth which includes a fabric layer the stitches of which have never been thermally set and an elastic composition layer bonded to the fabric layer, comprises draining the cloth into the mold and fixing, for example, by heating to the fiber set temperature, the shape of the cloth to maintain the contours of the mold. To accomplish heating of the cloth, the mold may already be heated to at least the fabric set temperature when the cloth is drawn into the mold.The heated cloth is then transferred and made to conform to a mold having a temperature below the fabric set temperature, or, alternatively, the initial mold is cooled. By this process the fabric stitch is set to the precise contours of thc mo d. A cloth having a fabric layer which has never been heat set and bonded to an elastic. Preferably thermoplastic, composition layer is drawn into the mold by the vacuum between the cloth and the mold. The mold has been or is then heated to a temperature sufficient to set the stitch of the fabric. The cloth is then transferred to and drawn into an identically shaped mold having a lower temperature also at part of the setting process , or, alternatively, the initial mold is cooled, after which foam is poured into the cooler mold. The other portion of the mold is positioned and the poured in place foam is permitted to expand. A finished seat cushion is then extracted from the mold. Since the mold is heated to the stitch setting temperature and since the cloth is then cooled, the fabric stitch is heat set to the shape of the mold. Therefore, the fabric layer works together with the underlying elastic composition layer so that the cloth or cushion maintains the shape of the mold after removal. In addition, since a hot mold is employed, and the cloth is pressed against the mold with a fair amount of pressure, the molding process tends to finish the cloth. Since the fabric stitch has not been previously heat set, the fabric is able to stretch sufficiently to conform to intricate mold patterns. The use of cloth, and particularly the cloth molding process of the present invention, results in numerous advantages. Cushion shapes that had heretofore been impossible, particularly in sewn construction, are easily obtained by the process of the present invention. The possible shapes include complex curves, concave and convex portions, tufts, and the simulation of tufting buttons. Many of these shapes have not even been possible with previous cloth molding processes. In addition to conforming to the more gradual contours of the mold, the cloth of the present invention will also conform to fine mold details. Thus, the surface of the mold may be patterned with a known cloth texture or even a texture that is impossible to weave or knit. An inlay can even be inserted in the mold to either give cloth different textures, or to add additional contours to a basic mold design. Labor savings are achieved with the cloth molding process of the present invention, because the cloth is processed and shaped much more quickly than in the traditional cutting and sewing process.Shapes commonly found in tufted furniture require yards of sewing. The assembly of tufts and tufting buttons also require extensive labor. With the present invention, they can be vacuum formed instantaneously, complete with simulated tufting buttons and poured in place foam. The present invention makes possible the exact duplication of shapes. The inaccuracies of sewn construction are eliminated. The integrity of the cloth is improved by this process since the cloth is held in place by a sandwich construction, thus eliminating the creasing or puckering of material which occurs in upholstered furniture after use. The durability of the resulting cushion is improved because the cloth composite and the polyurethane poured in place foam act as a unit.This improves the life of the cover, because it flexes with the foam rather than independent of it. The present invention may be employed to mold cloth for any conceivable application. Such applications include automotive vehicle seats, aviation seats, and dental chair cushions, drafting stool cushions, other seating applications padding for headboards, baby carriages, bar fronts, church kneelers, boots, school buses, and hand rails and paneling and wall coverings for elevators, offices, tables, and kitchen cabinets. If rigid or structural foam is employed as the poured in place foam, many advantages result.If the structural foam is employed as an office chairpan, it would be possible to use the method outlined above to cover the pan. The arm rest in chairs, automotive door side panels and the like could be molded with the covering cloth in one easy step. Similarly, office furniture molded into the wall might be a structural foam frame covered with the cloth as molded by the present invention. BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS These and other objects and advantages of the invention will become more apparent and more readily appreciated from the following detailed description of the presently preferred exemplary embodiment of the invention taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawing, of which FIGURE 1 is a cross section of the product of the present invention FIGURE 2 is an illustration of the preheating step of the present invention FIGURE 3 is an illustration of the cloth insertion step of the present invention FIGURE 4 is an illustration of the heating step of the present invention FIGURE 5 is an illustration of the foam pouring step of the present invention FIGURE 6 is an illustration of the curing step of the present invention FIGURE 7 is an illustration of the cushion extraction step of the present invention and FIGURE 8 is an illustration of the resulting product of the present invention. DESCRIPTION OF THE PREFERRED EMBODIMENTI. The Cloth An important aspect of the present invention is the particular type of cloth which is employed. Referring now to FIGURE 1, cloth 10 includes fabric layer 12 bonded to elastic composition layer 14. Fabric layer 12 is the exterior, decorative layer which enhances the appearance of the product resulting from the present invention. Also, the use of fabric enhances the thermal comfort of the product due to the air flow through the fabric. A. Fabric Layer Fabric layer 12 may be either knitted or woven. Knitted fabrics may be either warp knit or circular knit, single knit or double knit. Nearly any natural, artificial or synthetic material may be employed such as wool, cotton, polyamide, polyester, vinyl chloride, vinyl chloride acrylonitrile modacrylic or polyacryl fibers. Molding intricate patterns is more easily accomplished with fabrics having greater stretch.Therefore, the process is more easily performed with knitted materials than woven material since knitting produces a more elastic fabric than weaving.Polyamide, such as type 6 and type 6.6, polyester, vinyl cloride, vinyl chloride acrylonitrile copolymers, elastomer urethane and polyacryl fibers are preferable materials for weaving due to their inherent elasticity. Furthermore, the use as a ground yarn of the fabric of any of the texturized polyamide or polyester high elasticity yarns, or very high thermoplastic yarns like vinyl chloride and vinyl chloride acrylonitrile aids the molding process. Some fabrics are more easily heat set than others. For example, polyamide, polyester, vinyl chloride, vinyl chloride acrylonitrile are more easily heat set than cotton and wool. To maintain the maximum amount of elasticity in a fabric, it is preferred that the fabric stitch never has been thermally set. Many of the fabric finishing steps, such as tentering, calendering and shrinkage control heat the fabric, thus setting the stitch. The concept of setting the stitch is well known in the art and is easily measured by comparing the degree of elasticity of a fabric immediately after weaving or knitting, and again after finishing. If the fabric has become heat set during the finishing process, the elasticity is greatly reduced. Clearly, employing heat to dry a fabric as occurs in the tentering, calendering and shrinkage control processes sets the fabric stitch. Tensioning the fabric while it is heated increases the degree to which the stitch is set. In addition to many of the fabric finishing steps, some dyeing processes must be avoided. In many dyeing procedures the cloth is sewn into a rope and processed under tension. It is common to heat the dye bath to approximately the boiling point of water. The material is then dried at a raised temperature. This may heat set the fabric stitch.it has been found that yarn dyeing avoids this problem since the weaving or knitting process creates elasticity in the fabric. It appears that the real problem to be avoided is setting the stitch of the fabric rather than heat setting, in some manner, the yarns from which the fabric is created. The temperature to which a fabric may be heated before the stitch becomes set varies with the type of fabric. For example, the stitch of a polyamide fabric may become set at a temperaure of 930C 200OF . With some fabrics, particularly the more elastic ones, normal finishing may be employed since sufficient stretch remains in the fabric after finishing. Foam Layer In the preferred embodiment, elastic composition layer 14 includes foam layer 16 and film layer 18. Foam layer 16 must have good adhesion to both fabric 12 and film 18. Foam layer 16 is preferably any typical open microcell soft foam.The preferred embodiment employs polyester type polyurethane foam, although other foams are suitable, such as polyester polyether type polyurethane. An advantage of polyester type polyurethane is that it has a better memory . Polyester type foam tends to retain the shape in which it was molded better than polyether type polyurethane foam. Foam layer 16 allows movement of fabric 12 relative to film 18 and prevents the rupture of film 18 that might result from elongation of cloth 10 if fabric 12 were directly attached to film 18.Obviously, if an alternative method is employed to prevent rupturing, foam layer 16 would not be necessary. Foam layer 16 also improves the hand nor feel of cloth 10. Since foam 16 is preferably open celled, air may circulate through the foam thus improving the thermal comfort of the seat. Neoprene foam may also be used however, it is less desirable since it is a closed cell foam. In the preferred embodiment, foam 16 is 1.5 6 millimeters mm thick and has a density of 30 60 Kg m3. Also, foam 16 should stretch 300 400 before breaking. As the density of the foam increases, the degree to which the foam will stretch before breaking increases. The appropriate thickness of the foam should be determined by the particular application.The foam must not be so thick as to cause intricate patterns in a design to spring back after removal from the mold. On the other hand, a thicker foam layer enhances the hand and air permeability of the cloth.C. Film Layer Film layer 18 may be any elastic, preferably heat fixable, film which can adhere to both foam layer 16 and poured in place foam 20. Film 18 is preferably 0.03 0.7mm thick and is able to withstand a 400 surface deformation. For the invention to work properly, the stretch limits of elastic composition layer 14 must be approximately equal to or exceeding the stretch limits of fabric 12. The film should have a reasonably long life, must resist dry cleaning solvent, and not be affected by water, humidity or oxidizing agents. One purpose of the film 18 is to guarantee that the cloth is air tight so that it may be drawn into the mold by a vacuum. Another purpose is to prevent poured in place foam 20 from penetrating through fabric 12, thus ruining the aesthetic value of the product. Furthermore, the film must resist the chemical products in the poured in place foam. In the preferred embodiment, film 18 is polyvinyl chloride film. This film is closed cellular, and is well suited because it is a thermoplastic material. However, it hardens when plasticizers in the film migrate. Newly developed polymeric plasticizers may be employed to overcome the migration problem. If polyvinyl chloride is utilized as film 18, the thickness is preferably 0.1 0.3mm. The polyvinyl chloride film of the preferred embodiment has the following composition by weight of total Vinyl Chloride 50.0 55.0 Phosphate phthalate plasticizers 35.0 40.0 Light and heat stabilizers 2.0 Epoxy 0.5 Fillers pigments 7.5 If polyvinyl chloride is employed as film 18, it is preferable that it be coated on both sides with polyester type polyurethane film. FIGURE 1 illustrates polyvinyl chloride layer 22 coated on both sides with polyurethane film layers 24 and 26.Film layer 24 is preferably about 20 microns thick, while film layer 26 is preferably about 6 microns thick. Polyurethane film layers 24 and 26 permit bonding of polyvinyl chloride 22 to poured in place foam 20. Polyurethane coatings 24 and 26 also help stop the migration of plasticizers in polyvinyl chloride film 22. Polyester type polyurethane film may also be employed as film layer 18. This film is highly deformable with a poor memory under heat, because it is thermoplastic. These characteristics are obviously advantageous in the molding process of the present invention. It appears that a thickness of 0.2 0.6mm is preferred. Another advantage of this film is that it is water vapor permeable, enhancing the thermal comfort of the finished product. The major problem with this film is that pin holes tend to develop from gas bubbles created during manufacturing. This would permit poured inplace foam 20 to penetrate through fabric 12. To avoid this problem, the film must be cured very slowly. Otherwise, the bubbles burst during molding to create pin holes. Rubber may also be employed as film 18.The rubber must be unvulcanized and may be either natural or synthetic. The same type of rubber product that is used in bed sheeting is ideal. The major problem with rubber film is its odor. Anti oxidizing agents must be used. However, care must be exercised in choosing the anti oxidizing agents since many of the agents commonly used would migrate to the adjacent foam layers over approximately one year and distort the foam. However, non migrating oxidizing agents are well known. Blocking agents can be placed in the rubber that would break down at a predetermined temperature allowing the rubber to set or vulcanize during the molding process. When the rubber is vulcanized during the molding process, the rubber will hold the shape of the mold quite well afterwards. Ethylene vinyl acetate copolymer EVA may also be employed as film 18. This film is an elastomer and exhibits good stretch and poor memory at higher temperatures. However, EVA is sensitive to high temperatures. At about 1500C it begins to melt and form pin holes. EVA is weak in resisting abrasion. Pin holes form readily from handling.The film may be made by a rubber calendering system with which large quantities can be easily produced. A number of other films may also be used such as neoprene film.D. Bonding The Layers The bonding of the various layers within elastic composition layer 14 and the bonding of elastic composition layer 14 to fabric 12 must be carefully performed to avoid delamination.Polyvinyl chloride film 22 and polyurethane elastomer films 24 and 26 may be applied to foam interlayer 16 by a transfer process, well known in the art. Specifically, each film is applied as a liquid, the thickness being controlled by a blade.The film is then heated to jellification temperature by infra red lamps. A second controlled thickness is applied and heated after polyurethane foam 16 is applied, the films pass through calender rolls at room temperaure, after which the film is baked under infra red lamps. If unvulcanized rubber is employed as film 18, it is passed between calender rollers heated to a temperature less than the vulcanizing temperature. After film layer 18 is joined to one side of foam layer 16 to form elastic composition layer 14, the opposite side of foam 16 is heated, as in aReeves machine, and the fabric material is flamebonded thereto. It is not preferable to join both fabric 12 and film 18 to foam 16 by flame bonding, as this will result in a greater tendency for delamination of film layer 18. If foam layer 16 is eliminated, film layer 18 may be glued directly to fabric 12 using, for example, acrylic glue. When film 18 is applied to foam layer 16, the foam must be relaxed and not under tension.II. Molding Process Cloth 10, as described above and illustrated in FIGURE 1, is ideally suited for molding.Cloth 10 is first cut to size and, as illustrated inFIGURE 2, preheated to a temperature greater than the temperature at which fabric layer 12 is heat set and film layer 18 loses its memory its softening temperature . Either radiant heat or heated air may be employed. With polyvinyl chloride as film 18, polyurethane as foam 16 and either wool, polyester or polyamide as fabric 12, a temperature of between l380C 2800F and l600C 3200F has been found ideal. After preheating, hot cloth 10 is inserted in female mold portion 28 as illustrated in FIGURE 3. A hollow chamber lies directly beneath the outer contours of mold 28 to which the cloth must conform.Pin holes pass thorugh the outer contours so that the chamber communicates with the outside environment. A vacuum is applied to the chamber, thus drawing cloth 10 placed over mold 28 onto the outer contours, as illustrated in FIGURE 4. To insure that cloth 10 does perfectly conform to the contours of mold 28, more pin holes must be located near sharply varying contours of mold 28 than in the more flat portions of mold 28. Cloth 10 must be heat set in mold 28 to maximize its ability to retain its shape after the molding process. To this end, mold 28 is heated to the heat set temperature when cloth 10 is drawn therein. A temperature of 1490C 1820C 300 3600F has been found advantageous in the preferred embodiment. Cloth 10 may then be transferred to a cooler mold 29 see FIGURE 5 to enable the temperature of cloth 10 to drop at least l7 270C 30 500F to finish the setting process. Alternatively, mold 28 may be cooled to the same temperature. After the temperature of cloth 10 has been raised to 1600C and then cooled at least l70C, the stitch in fabric 12 is set in the shape of the mold, and therefore, cloth 10 is less likely to lose its shape after it is removed from the mold. Also, since cloth 10 is pressed against the mold walls while it is heated, the molding process finishes fabric 12. Foam 20 may then be poured into the cool mold in its liquid state. Cold cure, polyether type polyurethane foam may be employed, although any foam that adheres to film layer 18 may be used. For example, a rigid or structural foam may be employed, in which case the product may be used as a seat back, an arm rest, interior molding, or the like.Since a cold cure foam is used in the preferred embodiment, it is desirable that the female mold have a temperature below 380C about 1000F . Male mold portion 32 is then placed over the female portion as illustrated in FIGURE 6.After approximately 15 minutes foam 20 has fully expanded within the mold. The finished product may then be extractred from the female mold portion as illustrated in FIGURE 7. Thereafter, the cells of poured in place foam 20 may be broken by pressure applied by rollers, paddles, or the like. This increases the resiliency of the product, prevents shrinkage due to the contraction of gas within the cells upon cooling, and facilitates the circulation of air within a seat to improve the thermal comfort thereof. The result is a finished seat cushion, or the like, as illustrated in FIGURE 8. As indicated above, the ease of molding cloth 10 depends largely on the material used as fabric 12 and the intricacy of mold 28. With the process described above, relatively inelastic fabrics and complex molds may be employed.Specifically, the use of the process of the present invention enables cloth to be molded that has never been successfully molded before. Also, the present invention permits the use of molds of greater complexity than has ever been successfully used. In fact, the surface of mold 28 which contacts cloth 10 may be patterned according to a known cloth texture or even a texture that is impossible to weave or knit. Cloth 10 will take on this fine pattern and appear similar to the cloth the mold was patterned after. For example, smooth knit material can be given the appearance of aHarris Tweed, or even burlap. Obviously, as the texture of the material changes, not only the appearance, but also the feel and acoustical qualities of the cloth change. These other characteristics may be advantageous in certain applications. Instead of altering the surface of mold 28, mold 28 may be modified to accept inlays containing the various patterns. In this case, the same mold could be used to apply any number of patterns. This use of inlays greatly increases the flexibility of the molding process. In addition to creating inlays corresponding to fabric patterns, almost anything can be placed in the mold as an inlay. Wire mesh can be placed in the mold to product a recta ngular or diamond pattern. If a case for an instrument or tool is being molded, the actual instrument or tool can be placed in the mold, so that a recess is formed having the shape of the object to be inserted therein. The molding procedure outlined above has been found to produce the best results with the widest variety of molds and fabrics. However, if fabric 12 has not been subjected, during production, to a temperature high enough to set the stitch of the fabric, alternative molding processes may be employed. For example, the preheating step described above may be eliminated if the mold pattern is relatively simple or an elastic fabric, such as those having a base of texturized polyamide or polyester, is employed. Alternatively, cloth 10 may be cut to size, placed in a frame and heated by air to a temperature of 1210 1600C 2500 3200F while being pulled down into a female mold by means of a vacuum between the mold and cloth 10. The heat at this time sets the various layers of the cloth to the contours of the mold. The mold, together with cloth 10, may then be allowed to cool to about 380C 1000F . Foam 20 may then be poured into the mold in its liquid state. Cold cure, polyether type polyurethane foam is preferably employed, although any foam that adheres to film layer 18 may be used.Since a cold cure foam is used in the preferred embodiment, either female mold 28 must be cooled to a temperature below 380C about 1000F , or cloth 10 must be transferred to a cool female mold. The male mold portion is then placed over the female portion. After approximately fifteen minutes foam 20 will have fully expanded and the finished product may then be extracted. Alternatively, cloth 10 may be held to conform to the mold shape by the foam core or any other method well known in the prior art. The important point is that if the fabric stitch has not been previously heat set, the fabric will be able to stretch sufficiently to conform to intricate mold patterns. The following specific examples will serve to illustrate the cloth molding process of this invention. In all examples, fabric 12 was not subjected, during production, to a temperature high enough to set the stitch of the fabric. Therefore, in all examples, the final heat fixing of fabric 12 occurs in the mold. Example 1 A moldable cloth was prepared by flamebonding a double knit polyamide fabric to an elastic composition substrate. The fabric was made of texturized stretch yarn that had been piece dyed after knitting. The elastic composition substrate included an open cell polyester type polyurethane foam layer which had been cast or laid on a polyvinyl chloride film layer. The foam had between 90 and 100 pores per cubic inch, a density of 33 Kg m3 and a tensile strength of 300 elongation before breaking. The thickness of the foam was 3mm.The film had a thickness of 0.3mm and the following composition by weight Vinyl chloride 50.0 55.0 Phosphate phthalate plasticizers 35.0 40.0 Light heat stabilizers 2.0 Epoxy 0.5 Fillers pigments 7.5 On either side of the polyvinyl chloride layer was a layer of hydrolytically stable urethane to improve the adhesion between the poured in place polyurethane foam and the polyvinyl chloride. The thickness of the urehane film between the fabric and the polyvinyl chloride was 20 microns, and the thickness of the film between the polyvinyl chloride and the poured in place polyurethane foam was 6 microns. A seat cushion was made, employing this cloth, by first cutting the cloth to the required size, placing it in a frame, and heating it with radiant heat to a temperature of l600C 320OF . While the cloth was still hot, it was drawn into the female portion of a mold by means of a vacuum between the mold and the cloth. The cloth readily conformed to the contours of the mold. The mold had been heated to a temperature of 1710C 3400F . The heat of the cloth in the mold was sufficient to set the stitch of the fabric, and set the film. The cloth was then transferred to a female mold heated to 370C 99OF . Placing the hot cloth in the hot mold, followed by transfer to the cooler mold was sufficient to set the stitch of the fabric and the elastic composition layer to the shape of the mold. A polyether type polyurethane foam with a density of 52 Rg m3 was then poured in place. The male portion of the mold was placed over the female portion and the foam was permitted to expand for fifteen minutes. The product was then removed from the mold. Thereafter, the poured polyurethane cells were broken by pressure, and the product, a molded, poured in place cushion, was complete. Example 2 A moldable cloth was prepared in the same manner as in Example 1 except that the fabric was yarn dyed. The polyurethane foam of the elastic composition substrate had a density of 35 Kg m3 and a thickness of 1.5mm. Also, the thickness of the polyvinyl chloride film was 0.15mm. A seat cushion was made employing this cloth by cutting the cloth to size, placing the cloth in a frame and heating it by radiant heat to a temperature of 1490C 300OF . The heated cloth was then drawn into the female portion of a mold preheated to a temperature of 16600 330OF under vacuum. The cloth readily conformed to the contours of the mold. The cloth was then transferred to a female mold heated to 380C 100oF . Placing the hot cloth in the hot mold, followed by transfer to the cooler mold was sufficient to set the stitch of the fabric and the elastic composition layer to the shape of the mold. A polyether type polyurethane foam, with a density of 52 Kg m3 was then poured in place. The male portion of the mold was fitted over the female portion and the foam was allowed to expand within the mold for fifteen minutes. After removal of the product, the cells of the poured in place polyurethane foam were broken by pressure, and the product, a molded, poured in place seat cushion was complete. Example 3 A moldable cloth was prepared in the same manner as Example 1 except for the following differences. A yarn dyed double knit fabric having a polyamide base and a wool face was employed. The density of the polyurethane foam layer of the elastic composition substrate was 30 Kg m3. The thickness of the polyvinyl. chloride film was 0.2mm. The procedure of Example 1 was employed to form a seat cushion from the cloth, except for the following differences. The cloth was preheated by radiant heat to a temperature of l570C 315OF . The female portion of the mold had been preheated to a temperature of 1600C 320OF . The cloth was then transferred to a female mold heated to 380C 1000F . Example 4 A moldable cloth was prepared as in Example 2 except for the following differences. A double knit polyamide and polyester combination fabric was employed. The density of the polyurethane foam layer of the elastic composition layer was 30 Rg m3.The thickness of the polyvinyl chloride film was 0.25mm. The cloth was employed in the process ofExample 2 for making a seat cushion except for the following differences. The female mold was preheated to a temperature of 1710C 3400F . After the cloth was placed in the hot mold, the cloth was then transferred to a female mold heated to 370C 980F Example 5 A moldable cloth was prepared in a manner similar to Example 3, except for the following differences. A piece dyed, single knit polyamide fabric was employed. The thickness of the polyurethane foam layer of the elastic composition substrate was 0.15mm. This cloth was utilized to mold a seat cushion in a manner similar to that of Example 3 except for the following differences. The cloth was preheated to a temperature of 1490C 3000F . The mold was preheated to a temperature of 1680C 335OF . Although only a few exemplary embodiments of this invention have been described in detail above, those skilled in the art will readily appreciate that many modifications are possible in the exemplary embodiments without materially departing from the novel teachings and advantages of this invention. For example, the cloth may be drawn into the male portion of the mold. Accordingly, all such modifications are intended to be included within the scope of this invention as defined in the following claims.