# Foundry moulding compositions and method of making foundry moulds and cores.

## Abstract
Lactones, especially gamma butyrolactone, are used as curing agents for alkaline phenolic resins in foundry moulds and cores.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A foundry moulding composition comprising a granular refractory material from O.8 to 5 by weight of the granular refractory material of a binder comprising an alkaline phenolic resin, and, as curing agent for the resin, from 25 to l1O รณ by weight of the resin of a lactone. 2. A composition as claimed in claim 1 wherein the granular refractory material is silica sand, quartz, chl esite sand, zircon sand, olivine sand or a mixture thereof. 3. A composition as claimed in either claim 1 or claim 2 wherein the phenolic resin is a phenol formaldehyde resole resin in which the molar ratio of phenol to formaldehyde is fox 1 1 to 1 3. 4. A composition as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 3 including up to 3 by weight of the resin of at least one silane. 5. A composition as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 4 wherein the lactone is one or more of propiolactone, butyrolactone, valerolactone and caprolactone. 6. A composition as claimed in claim 5 wherein the lactone is gamma butyrolactone. 7. A method of making a foundry mould or core which comprises mixing granular refractory material with from 0.5 to 8 percent by weight on the weight of the refractory material of a binder comprising an alkaline phenolic resin and, as curing agent for the resin, from 25 to 110 percent by weight on the weight of the resin of a lactone, forming the mixture and ailowing the mixture to set. 8. A method as claimed in claim 7 wherein the granular refractory material is silica sand, quartz, chromite sand, zircon sand, olivine sand or a mixture thereof. 9. A method 2s claimed in either claim 7 or claim 8 wherein the phenolic resin is a phenol formaldehyde resole resin in which the molar ratio of phenol to formaldehyde is from 1 1 to 1 3. 10. A method as claimed in any one of claims 7 to 9 wherein up to 3 by weight of the resin of at least one silane is included in the mixture. 11. A method as claimed In any one of claims 7 to 10 wherein the lactone is one or more of propiolactone, butyrolactone, valcrolactone and caprolactone. 12. A method as claimed in claim 11 erein the lactone is gamma butyrolactone.

## Description
FOUNDRY MOULDING COMPOSITIONS AND METHOD OF MAKING FOUNDRY MOULDS ssND CORPS. This invention relates to foundry moulding compositions and, more particularly, to foundry moulding compositions which do not evolve pungent acid gases on thermal de Jmposition. The invention also comprises a process for the production of foundry moulds and cores using said compositions. Phenol fonncldehyde PF , phenol formaldehyde furfuryl alcohol formaldehyde condensation products, catalysed with strong acid catalysts, such as phosphoric acid, sulphuric acid and paratoluene sulphuric acid and the like, are well known zs binders for sand in the production of cold setting foundry moulds and cores.Aromatic sulphonic acids are more commonly employed than all other types but have the disadvantage that pungent fumes of sulphur dioxide are evolved on thermal decomposition. UF FA condensation products contain nitrogen which can form ammonia on thermal decomposition and this tends to neutralise the sulphur dioxide. However, nitrogen in the binder can react with certain metals, such as, for example, grey and nodular irons and steel, resulting in the formation cf small bubbles in the final casting, 2 defect knozn in the foundry industry as pinholing . The employment of UF FA binders is consequentlyestricted. Phosphoric acid may be employed as a catalyst but tends to build up on the sand on repeated attrition reclamation and this reduces the refractoriness of the sand. Phosphoric acid is also incompatible with PF FA condensation products and, as a result, the moulds and cores produced exhibit poor bond strengths. It is known from German Auslegeschrift 1065605 that lactones can act as hardeners for alkaline phenol aldehyde resins. This Auslegeschrift refers to the use of such resins as adhesives in producing wood laminates. U.S. Specification 3599433 suggest the use of similar res systems applied in dilute aqueous solutions as soil grouts. Neither of these documents suggest any use for such resin systems as foundry binders.This is not surprising because it is very well known in the foundry binder art that cold setting alkali curing phenol aldehyde resins tend to produce weak cores and or require the use of amine catalysts with the attendant disadvantages referred to above. We have now surprisingly found that the several disadvantages of the foundry binder compositions of the prior art can be overcome by employing an alkalicatalysed phenolic resin in conjunction with a lactone as a binder for foundry moulding compositions Such binders can be free from non metailic elements other than carbon, hydrogen and oxygen and do not evolve pungent acid fumes during thermal dccoositicn. Accordingly, the present invention provides a foundry moulding composition comprising a granular refractory material from 0.8 to 5 by weight of the granular refractory material of a binder comprising an alkaline phenolic resin and as a curing agent for the resin from 25 to 110 by weight of the resin of a lactone. The invention also provides a method of making a foundry mould or core which comprises mixing granular refractory material with from 0.5 to 8 percent weight on the weight of the refractory material of a binder comprising an alkaline phenrlic resin and, as curing agent for the resin, from 25 to 110 percent by weight on the weight of the resin of a lactone, forming the mixture and allowing the mixture to set. The granular refractory materials used in the present invention may be any of the refractory m gt erials commonly employed in the foundry industry for the production of moulds and cores, such as silica sand, quartz, chromite sand, zircon or olivine sand. The compositions of the invention have the particular advantage that the difficulties commonly associated with the bonding of sands of alkaline reaction, such as olivine and chromite, or beach sands containing shell fragments, and which arise from neutralisation or partial nutralisation of the acid catalyst used, are completely overcome, since in this invention the resin binder Is cured under alkaline conditions The invention is,therefore,of particular utility where it is necessary or desirable to employ alkaline sands. The phenolic resins used in the present invention are those based upon phenol or substituted phenols, such as phenol,m cresol,3,5 xylen 1 ol, resorcinol, or mixtures thereof and an aldehyde or mixtures thereof.The preferred materials are phenol and formaldehyde.Part or all of the formaldehyde may be provided in the form of paraformaldehyde paraform . The molar ratio of the phenol to the aldehyde will typically be from 1 1,0 to 1 3.0 and preferably from 1 1.5 and 1 2.6. The degree of condensation of the phenolic resin can most conveniently be described in terms of two parameters, the residual solids on heating at 1000C to constant weight and the viscosity of the solution. The phenolic resins used in the invention typically have solids of between 60 and 95 percent by weight and viscosities within the range 0.5 to 100 poises at 25OC The preferred materials are those with solids of from 80 to 95 percent and a viscosity between 5 and 15 poises. The proportion of alkaline phenolic resin used is from 0.8 to 5.0 percent, preferably from 1.0 to 2.0 by weight on the weight of the sand. To improve bond strength, it is preferred to add a silane, such as, for example, aminopropyltriethoxy silane, as an adhesicn promoter, to the compositions of the invention. The amount of silane employed will, typically be up to 3 percent and preferably from 0.1 to 0.5 percent by weight on the weight of the resin.K The alkaline phenolic resin includes an alkali to catalise the curing of the resin. Suitable alkalis include potassium hydroxide, sodium hydroxide, calcium hydroxide, magnesium hydroxide and mixtures thereofThe preferred alkali is potassium hydroxide. Preferably the alkali is included in the resin as an aqueous solution or dispersion, typically containing from 25 to 60 by weight on the weight of the solution or dispersion.For KOH the preferred concentration is about 50 h by weight. Typically the amount of alkali used will be in the range 15 to 6070 by weight 100 solids basis on the weight of the resin. The optimum amount in any particular case depends on the nature of the alkali and its concentration and, to some extent, on the nature of the resin and the lactone. By way of example, using a 50 aqueous solution of KOH and a phenolic resin with a solids context of about 80 percent, the amount of alkali will typically be from 15 to 40 percent and optimally between 20 and 30 percent. The lactone will typically be propiolactone, butyrolactone, caprolactone, or valcrolactone, or a mixture thereof. The preferred lactones are gamma butyrolactone and caprolactone. Based on the weight of the resin, the proporting of lactone will be from 25 to 110 percent, preferably between 40 and 60 percent by weight on the weight of the resin. The order of mixing the ingredients is not important but we have found that slightly higher strengths are obtained if the lactone is first mixed with the sand and the phenolic resin containing silane if used then added, followed by a solution of alkali. Immediately after preparation, the mix is discharged into a corebox or pattern mould and allowed to set. The time required for the moulding mixture prepared in this way to solidify may be varied from 2 minutes to 24 hours but we prefer to adjust the setting range to give a setting time within the range 5 to 45 minutes. The following Examples iliustrate the invention. Preparation of Phenol Formaldehyde Resole Resin 42.12 parts by weignt of 100X phenol were reacted in a stainless steel reactor with 53.7 parts by weight of 50 aqueous formaldehyde solution at a pH of 8.0 obtained by the addition of 1.5L of 32 caustic solution for 3 hours at 80 20C. The temperature was dropped to 50 SrOc. by reducing the pressure in the reactor and water distilled off at this temperature to obtain a viscosity of 400 cSt at 250C. 0.25 parts by weight of gamma aminopropyl triethoxy silane A. 1102 ex UnionCarbide were added slowly and the resin cooled to 4GOC and discharged. Preparation of Foundry Sand Core Mix Unless otherwise stated, the following procedure was employed for the examples which follow. 10o0 grammes of the selected sand were charged to a Fordath laboratory coremxer and mixed for 1 minute with 15 grammes of the phenol formaldehyde resin prepared as above. The lactone was then added and mixed for 1 minute. Finally, the alkali was added to the mix and mixed for a further i minute. Part of the mix was discharged and rammed into a waxed paper cup which was squeezed by hand to judge when setting occurred. 2 x 2 cylinder compression testpieces were prepared to the standard procedure recommended by I.B.F.Working Party P. All compression cores were made within 3 minutes of discharge of the mix .Compression cores were placed in a standard atmosphere at 2G C 50 rh and withdrawn at regular intervals up to 24 hours elapsed time for testing for compression strength. Effect of Order of Addition of Lactone and Resin Example 1 shows the effects of following the above procedure while Example 2 illustrates the effect, using the same formulation, of adding the lactone to the sand prior to the resin. Similar results are obtained in both cases. Effect of Proportion and Type of Alkali Example 4 shows that 5G percent caustic soda solution gives higher strengths than 32 percent solution. The setting time can be prolonged by decreasing the proportion added as can be seen by comparing Examples 3 and 4 . By replacing sodium hydroxide by potassium hydroxide longer setting times are obtained but strengths are reduced Example 5 . However, on increasing the proportion of 50 percent potassium hydroxide solution used, higher strengths are obtained Examples b and 7 . Effect of Proportion and Type of Lactone Caprolactone and valerolactone can be used in place of gamma butyrolactone but slower setting times and lower strengths are obtained Examples 8 and 9 . The optimum percentage of lactone appears to be between 30 and 60 of the resin, 455Gio giving the best strengths Examples 16,17,18,19 . Effect of Using Alkaline Sands Examples 12, 13 and i4 illustrate that the system sets using alkaline sands, such as Southport sea sand, divine and zircon, and that useable strengths are obtained. EXAMPLE 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 .8 9 SAND Chelford 50 400 400 400 400 400 400 400 400 400 Olivine Southport Zircon Redhill 65 RESIN 6 6 6 6 6 6 6 6 6 LACTONE Gamma butyro 2.8 2.8 2.8 2.8 2.8 2.8 2.8 Capro 2.8 Valero 2.8 ALKALI 32 NaOH 2.4 2.4 2.4 50 O tMOH 2.0 1.6 50 KOH 2.0 2.4 2.8 3.0SAND TEMPERATURE o 25 25 22 23 23 24 24 26 23BENCH LIFE MIN 5 5 5 6 9 5 4 .22 23SET TIME MIN 10 9 8 10 14 8 6 36 35COMPRESSION STRENGTH kN m2 after 1 hour 950 1280 2100 1775 950 172 5 2000 650 940 after 2 hours 1050 1820 2750 2550 1330 2450 3200 1825 1800 after 4 ours 1250 2050 34G0 3250 1775 3350 40Q0 1975 after 24 hours 3250 3750 4200 4100 3200 4800 5200 3550 4700AMBIENT CONTITIONS C e 24 24 22 22 22 22 22 26 21 R.H. 60 95 55 53 53 53 53 58 59TEST CONDITIONS OC 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 R.H. 50 50 50 50 50 50 50 50 50 EXAMPLE 10 11 12 13 14 15 SAND Chelford 50 400 400 400 Olivine 400 Southport 400 Zircon 400 Redhill 65 RESIN 6 6 6 6 6 6LACTONE Gammm butyro 1.4 1.4 1.4 1.4 1.0 Capro 1.4 2.8 1.4 1.4 1.4 1.0 Valero ALKALI 32 NaOH 50 NaOH 50 KOH 2.4 2.8 2.8 2.8 2.8 3.0SAND TEMPERATURE OC 26 22 23 23 23 23BENCH LIFE MIN 8 8 4 7 4 9SET TIME MIN 14 13 8 12 6 14COMPRESSION STRENGTH kN m2 after 1 hour 1185 990 1750 1200 4500 1975 after 2 hours 1925 1925 2250 2680 3400 2400 after 4 hours 2565 3050 2600 3150 2900 after 24 hours 5000 4300 2600 4800 10000 2900AMBIENT CONDITIONS C26 26 25 25 25 22 R.H.58 53 53 53 53 47TEST CONDITIONS C 20 20 20 20 20 20 R.H.50 50 50 50 50 50 EXAMPLE 16 17 18 19 20 21 SAND Chelford 50 400 400 400 400 400 Olivine Southport Zircon Redhill 65 400 RESIN 6 6 6 6 6 6LACTONE Gamma butyro 1.1 t.2 1.3 1.4 1.4 1.4 Capro 1.1 1.2 1.3 1.4 1.4 1.4 Valero ALKALI 32 NaOH 2.4 50 NaOH 50 KOH 3.0 3.0 3.0 3.0 2.8 SAND TEMPERATURE 0C 23 23 23 23 5 25BENCH LIFE MIN 8 7 6 5 7 7SET TIME MI 8 13 11 9 7 18 10COMPRESSION STRENGTH kN m2 after 1 hour 2370 2400 2400 2300 1770 990 after 2 hours 3150 3250 3400 3150 2760 1430 after 4 hours 3750 3700 3850 3900 3500 1975 after 24 hours 4050 4300 4850 4800 5130 3900AMBIENT CONDITIONS C22 22 22 22 18 a 25 R.H.4 47 47 47 65 48TEST CONDITIONS OC 20 20 20 20 5 20 R.H.50 50 50 50 72 50REMARKS Resin and alkali premixed