# Control polymerization of addition polymerizable monomers with small amounts of non conjugated difunctional monomers.

## Abstract
Inclusion in the reaction mass of certain difunctional monomers including divinylbenzene in controlled, minis cule proportions for polymerization of styrene and other monoethylenically unsaturated, addition polymerizable monomers provides either significantly increased rates of polymerization production of polymer product obtained at given molecular weight values or noticeably increased molecular weight values at fixed polymerization rates, or both to more or less desired individual effect extents.

## Claims
WHAT IS CLAIMED IS 1. Method of making thermoplastic addition polymers comprising a starting with a mass of a monoethylenically unsaturated, addition polymerizable main monomer which, including styrene per se, is co polymerizable with styrene b subjecting the mass a as a reaction mass to free radical polymerization conditions while c incorporating in the mass b prior to completion af polymerization a miniscule proportion of a difunctional monomer that is its essential structure at least substantially free of conjugated double bonds and which is interpolymerizable with styrene, the incorporated proportion being one that is on the order of less than one molecule of the difunctional monomer per each two integral unit, effectively by single polymer chains of polymerized main monomer a to be obtained as final product polymer. 2. Method of Claim 1, wherein the difunctional monomer is incorporated in the reaction mass in an effective amount of up to 600 ppm of unreacted monomer in the reaction mass. 3. Method of Claim 1, wherein the difunctional monomer is incorporated in the reaction mass in an amount of between 50 and 200 ppm of unreacted monomer in the reaction mass 4. Method df any one of Claims 1, 2 or 3, wherein the difunctional monomer is incorporated in the reaction mass at the commencement of polymerization. 5. Method of any one of Claims 1, 2 or 3, wherein the difunctional monomer is incorporated in the reaction mass during the polymerization. 6. Method of any one of Claims 1 to 5, wherein the main monomer mass a is at least substantially entirely an alkenyl aromatic monomer of the Formula CH2 CGAr, I wherein G is hydrogen or methyl and Ar is an aromatic radical including alkyl and halo ring substituted aromatics, of from 6 to 10 carbon atoms. 7. Method of Claim 6, wherein styrene is the alkenyl aromatic monomer of Formula I . 8. Method of any one of Claims 1 to 7, wherein the difunctional monomer is divinyl benzene. 9. Method of any one of Claims 1 to 7 wherein the difunctional monomer is diisopropenyl benzene. 10. Method of any one of Claims 1 to 10 including providing in the reaction mass between 1 and 15 weight percent, based on the weight of the reaction mass, a dispersed, unsaturated rubbery elastomer that is capable of being graft copolymerized by and is interpolymerizable with the main monomer.

## Description
CONTROL POLYMERIZATION OF ADDITION POLYMERIZABLE MONOMERS WITH SMALL AMOUNTS OF NON CONJUGATED DIFUNCTIONAL MONOMERS The use of difunctional monomers having unconjugated double bonds in their structures in free radical polymerization of various addition polymerizable, monethylenically unsaturated monomers, including, for example, styrene, is not new. As an illustration, U.S.Patent No. 2,089,444 deals generally with styrene polymer products made with small amounts of divinyl benzene. However, nothing in the prior art appears to teach or lead to effective and reliable molecular weight and or polymerization rate regulation in free radical addition polymerizations using very small, controlled quantities of difunctional monomers during polymerization of the addition polymerizable monomer. Thus, the present invention relates to an advantageous means of making various polymers, copolymers and inter and graft polymers and copolymers of styrene and other equivalent monoethylenically unsaturated, addition polymerizable monomers in such a way that, without resort to equipment alteration and or extraordinary process variation, the polymer product is obtained with generally higher molecular weight and better physical property characteristics, e.g. improved stress crack resistance and or the product is obtained at meaningfully accelerated rates of production under constant operating conditions.The technique of this invention requires the utilization of very small quantities of a difunctional monomer, such as divinyl benzene, in prescribed proportion added at the commencement of polymerization or subsequently to the reaction mass during the course of polymerization at an intermediate stage of conversion thereof, there being no particular changes s in apparatus and or basic processing procedure necessitated thereby. More particularly, this invention pertains to an improved and highly advantageous method of manufacture of thermoplastic addition polymers which comprises starting with a mass of a monoethylenically unsaturated, addition polymerizable main monomer intended for conversion to polymeric product which, including styrene per se, is co polymerizable with styrene subjecting the mass to free radical polymerization conditions while incorporating in the mass prior to completion of polymerization a miniscule proportion of a difunctional monomer that is at least substantially free of conjugated double bonds, excluding any which exist in a ring form, in its structure and which is interpolymerizable with styrene, the incorporated proportion being one that is on the order of less than one molecule of difunctional monomer per each two polymer chains of polymerized main monomer to be obtained as final product polymer. The basic principles of styrene and equivalent monomer polymerizations are widely known to those skilled in the art and are not described herein. The proportion utilized of the difunctional monomer should be less than one 1 molecule or mole, in gravimetric concept per each two 2 complete, integral unit polymer chains of the addition polymer being produced whether or not the polymer product is substantially strictly linear or more or less branch structured in its morphology. More than this of the difunctional monomer tends to create undesired cross linked polymer product networks. In most systems of interest, it is advantageous for the quantity of difunctional monomer employed to be not more than 600 parts per million by weight i.e., ppm l , based on the weight of the addition monomer in the reaction mass in which the difunctional monomer is included.Under extraordinary circumstances, however, one may use as much as 1,000 ppm of the difunctional monomer as in situations where the reaction mass contains literally abnormally high quantities of solvent and is being polymerized at unusually elevated temperature levels. With the normally encountered polymerization operations, more than 600 ppm of the difunctional monomer does cause unwanted gellation problems in the system. Between 50 and 200 ppm of the difunctional monomer are preferred. Although mass or bulk polymerization is preferably employed in the practice of the present invention, any process technique may be utilized including suspension, emulsion and solution procedures. Either thermal or catalyzed reactions may be utilized with normal operating temperature schedules involved in the manufacture. Thus, as in styrene polymerizations, the employed temperature for polymerization may fall in a wide range between 0 and 2000C depending more or less on such factors as monomer reactivity, catalyst usage if any, especially as to those operable at extreme low temperatures and so forth. Typically, a temperature which may be and often is varied during the course of the reaction in the range of from 80 1700C is employed.The reaction mass is ordinarily subjected to some form of agitation during polymerization. Conversion is ordinarily continued until at least 60 80 percent by weight wt. of polymer solids are obtained in the reaction mass.There are no practical limitations of apparatus usage involved in practice of the invention the set up associated with any given procedure being followed being generally utilizable therefor. While styrene is a preferred monomer, other alkenyl aromatic monomers or mixtures thereof with or without styrene can also be beneficially employed.These include those having the Formula CH2 CGAr, I wherein G is hydrogen or methyl and Ar is an aromatic radical, including various alkyl and halo ring substituted aromatics, of from 6 to 10 carbon atoms. Besides styrene, species illustrations of the indicated alkenyl aromatic monomers are alpha methyl styrene, vinyl toluene, the several chlorostyrenes such as the mono and dichloro variants , the dimethyl styrenes, vinyl naphthalene and so forth. Still other monomers that are adaptable for use in practice of the present invention include i vinyl halides, particularly vinyl chloride ii acrylonitrile and methacrylonitrile iii various vinyl organic acid esters such as vinyl acetate, vinyl propionate, etc. iv vinylidene chloride v acrylic and methacrylic acids and their addition polymerizable esters vi maleic anhydride and so forth. Divinylbenzene, divinyltoluene, diisopropenylbenzene and diisopropenyltoluene or mixtures thereof are particularly advantageous for utilization as the difunctional monomer in practice of the present invention. A number of others can, however, be utilized with advantage. These include those which are generally divinyl and or diisopropenyl in nature and are of a general structure according to one or another of theFormulae H2C CH R COO R O R CH CH2 I I C C R OR OR C C III EMI5.1 wherein each R, R and R can independently be on organic radical consisting of aliphatic, including cycloaliphatic, units containing from 1 to 12 carbon atoms aromatic, including substituted aromatic, units containing from 6 to 12 carbon atoms plus diacrylates, dimethacrylates, dimaleates and difumarates of the respective Formulae CH2 CH COO CHR CH2 CHRO yCOCH CH2 VI Diacrylate CH2 CCH3 COO CHR CH2 x CHRO yCOCCH3 CH2 VII Dimethacrylate HOOC CH CHCOO CHR CH2 xCHRO yCOH CH CH COOH VIII Dimaleate and or HOOC CH COO CHR CH2 xCHRO yCO CH CH COOH, IX Difumarate in each of which R is as above defined and x and y, independently, are integers having values between 1 and 100 as well as polyalkoxides of the Formula EMI6.1 in which x is an integer as above defined. It is interesting, and sometimes of benefit, that when higher molecular weight difunctional monomers of the Formulae II through X are employed unreacted residues thereof are frequently capable of advantageous functioning as plasticizers and or lubricants for the resulting beneficial polymer compositions in which they are contained. When rubber modified, impact grade plastics products are prepared, it is customary to incorporate in the composition from, 1 15 wt. of an unsaturated, graft copolymerizable stock of natural or synthetic rubbery elastomer for interpolymerization with the monoethylenically unsaturated monomer in the reaction mass all according to known procedures. Polybutadiene or a polybutadiene derivative may be employed as the modifying rubber, although, if desired, natural rubbers may also be used as may styrene butadiene polymers as, for example, of the well known GRS type , .polyether elastomers, etc. Polymer compositions prepared in accordance with the present invention are thermoplastic and are suitable for extrusion and injection molding. They are generally gel free when a 5 weight percent solution in toluene is prepared. When rubber modified impact grade plastic products are prepared, the rubber particles in the polymer matrix are cross linked and a toluene solution will exhibit only rubber gels which may or may not, depending on process conditions, contain occluded polymer of the matrix. The matrix polymer is substantially gel free. Practice of the present invention has, primarily, a pronounced desirable effect on the molecular weight of the involved product, tending to noticeably increase both the number average molecular weight i.e., M and the weight average molecular weight i.e., MW values, as determined by gel permeation chromatography , of the so processed material. It also has definite influence on rheology of the manufactured polymer product, especially as regards the important Nw Mn ratio.In this connection, an ideal Nw Mn ratio for most molding and extrusion purposes and especially insofar as concerns styrene polymer plastics products is on the the order of 2.0 3. Earlier addition of the difunctional monomer to the reaction mass usually gives a broader and numerically increasing spread of the resultant My nun ratio obtained in the achieved product this typically being in the range from 2.5 5.6. On the other hand, difunctional monomer incorporation after substantial conversion has occurred tends to render the realized Nw Mn ratio, in a more narrow and lesser decreasing spread in the neighborhood of an approximate 2.5 2.1 range this usually being observable when instead of going in with starting main monomer feed the difunctional monomer is added after, for example, at least half of monomer to polymer conversion has taken place i.e., upon reaching of 50 wt. polymer solids in the reaction mass . If desired, difunctional monomer addition can be incrementally made to the reaction mass during the progress of the polymerization, in which event somewhat compromised rheological influence may be noted which, in fact, may be desirable for getting specific, rather tailor made effects respecting the ratio of My nun in the obtained product . The outstanding feature in practice of the present invention is the great versatility it renders to polymerization procedures. Thus, for given operating conditions, product molecular weight can generally be increased by at least 10 or so with utilization of this invention. Conversely, if only a desired level of molecular weight as a standard is wanted, application of the present invention allows much faster rates so as to give greater production output from given apparatus units for manufacture.Yet additional to this, however, the present invention may be applied to produce acceptable polymer product at a given molecular weight standard using higher than normal operating temperatures for polymerization at correspondingly likewise increased unit output from given equipment installations which otherwise might have an intolerable deleterious molecular weight degradation effect on polymer product. The following illustrative examples show the simplicity and great benefit of the present invention.In all instances, the parts and percentages given are by weight, based on total weight of involved composition or reaction mass. All temperature readings are in C. First Illustration Several polybutadiene modified impact polystyrene products were made pursuant to the present invention using various amounts of divinyl benzene as a molecular weight control agent. A heat controlled and otherwise adequately outfitted and instrumented stirred kettle type of reactor was employed. The feed batch contained Parts, ppm or Ingredient 1,245 pts. Styrene Main Monomer 165 pts. Ethyl Benzene Viscosity, etc., Control Solvent Continued Parts, ppm or Ingredient 73.5 pts. Taktene 1202 Polybutadiene Rubber 2.1 IrgonoxX 1076 400 ppm Peroxide catalyst 26.25 ppm Mineral oil Irgonoxe 1076 is octadecyl 3 3 ,S di tert. butyl 4 hydroxpheny propionate having the structure EMI10.1 The catalyst was 1,1 bis di tert. butyl peroxy cyclohexane of the Structure EMI10.2 Three polymerizations were conducted under substantially constant temperature profiles of from 1040 to 1640C for 6.75 hours, the only difference being the amount of divinylbenzene in the feed.The results were as follows Divinylbenzene ppm 0 50 75 Solids 71.1 72.6 73.7Mw 250,000 275,000 281,000Mn 114,000 118,000 119,000 Mw Mn 2.2 2.3 2.4The increase in molecular weight and the M H n ratio with miniscule amounts of divinylbenzene being present in the feed is clearly seen.Second Illustration A polybutadine modified impact polystyrene product was made using diisopropenyl benzene DIPB as a molecular weight control agent. A heat controlled and otherwise adequately outfitted and instrumented stirred kettle type reactor was employed. The feed batch contained Parts or ppm Ingredient 1207 Styrene 134 Ethyl benzene 84 Taktene 1202 3.75 Mineral oil 2.25 Irgonox 1076 500 ppm Peroxide catalyst used in first example The second charge addition consisted of 300 ppm based on anticipated unreacted monomer at point of incorporation in the amount of 0.268 part DIPB mixed into 75 parts of the mixture of styrene ethylbenzene. After reactor charging, the following procedure and observation schedule was carried out time in minutes TimeFromStart Point Notations Zero 1 Commence heating and stirring. 40 2 Polymerization Temperature reached 1220 . 100 3 Solids in reaction mass pf 26.5 commat 1160. 130 4 Temperature increased by 5 to 125 level.150 5 Temperature raised another 3 reaction mass commat 124 . 160 6 Solids of 41.2 commat 126 . Second charge addition made 3 mintues later.170 7 Temperature raised another 30 reaction mass commat 128 . 190 8 Temperature raised another 30 reaction mass commat 1300. 205 9 Solids content 53.4 reaction mass commat 133.50. 210 10 Temperature raised another 50 reaction mass commat 1320. 230 11 Temperature raised another 50 reaction mass commat 1360. Continued TimeFromStart Point Notations 250 12 Temperature raised another 50 reaction mass commat 140.50. 270 13 Temperature raised another 5 reaction mass commat 1450, 290 14 Temperature raised another 50 reaction mass commat 1450. 310 15 Temperature raised another 50 reaction mass commat 152,50. 330 16 Temperature raised another 50 reaction mass commat 156.50. 350 17 Temperature raised another 50 reaction mass commat 1610, 370 18 Reaction mass commat 1640. Emptied reactor. Final solids 79.4 . Production devola tilized for 30 minutes in oven under 5 mm Hg max. pressure commat 215 . Indicates change in temperature control unit for reactor heating the reaction mass temperature not always corresponding to heat input demand.The MW Mn ratio was 2.339 as reckoned from an Mw of 277,000 and an Mn of 119,000.Third Illustration A number of Runs were made to produce ordinary, so called general purpose homopolystyrene by normal mass polymerization procedures using thermal influence alone for the free radical polymerization. A portion of the Runs were made in a standard recirculated coil reactor in which the monomeric styrene was pump forced through a heated tubular coil. In another portion of the Runs, polymerization was conducted in a type of equipment which actually was and is known as a Continuous Stirred TankReactor i.e., CSTR the same amounting to no more than a stirred, efficient mixing autoclave with a reflux column attachment permitting the reaction mass to be processed at the boil with condensed evaporated vapors continuously returned thereto via the reflux unit.In each of the series of Runs, some homopolystyrene i.e., PS was made in the conventional way without any additive. The remainder of the Runs in each series was made with differing additions in the starting monomeric styrene charge of divinylbenzene i e., DVB to provide increased reaction rate s . It is significant to bear in mind that, for most commercial styrene polymer preparations, a 25 hr.conversion figure is considered to be standard insofar as satisfactory rates of production are concerned. Further, the output with no DVB in the reaction mass was approximately 45 kg. hr. while that with 60 ppm DVB with no change in operating conditions was abut 67.5 kg. hr. and that with 120 ppm DVB was 77 kg. hr. The dramatic increase in production rate with no sacrifice of productPS quality is indeed significant. TABLE Characteristics and Properties of PS Controlled by DBV Incorporation During PolymerizationRun num 1 num 2 num 3 num 4Characteristic and or Property ppm DVB in Reaction Mass 0 60 120 120 Conversion per Hour 20.2 30.2 35.4 37.1Mn 126,000 125,000 103,000 115,000Mw 320,000 313,000 299,000 284,000Mw Mn 2.55 2.49 2.90 2.47Tensile Strength psi 6570 6540 6530 6480 kg sq. cm 461.9 459.8 459.1 455.6 Flexural Strength psi 14,050 13,600 14,700 13,730 kg sq. cm 987.8 956.2 1033.5 965.3 Melt Flow Resistance MFR Condition L 1.42 2.15 2.26 3.31Heat DistortionTemperature C 108 107 108 107Melt Tension 4.25 4.25 5.3 3.2 For Comparative pueposes, the Mw of the obtained polymer without DVB in the reaction mass would have been 200,000. Fourth Illustration A series of batch polymerizations comparing the effects of no divinylbenzene DVB with small amounts of DVB being added at various stages of polymerization were carried out. The charge to the reactor vessels was 25 grams Taktene 1202 6 grams Mineral oil 50 grams Ethyl benzene 1269 grams Styrene No catalystThe polymerizations were carried out at 1300 1650C to about 65 solids. The various runs and results were as follows DVB Mw Mn M v n None 265,000 124,000 2.14 150 ppm in original feed 403,000 163,000 2.47 150 ppm in at 30 solids 320,000 131,000 2.44 150 ppm in at 50 solids 308,000 150,000 2.05 This example illustrates that early addition of the difunctional monomer increases both the molecular weight and the Mw Mn ratio. The products of the foregoing illustrations were all thermoplastic polymers suitable for extrusion and injection molding, substantially free of gels and soluble in toluene at a 5 weight percent concentration.