# A thermal interface between surfaces of a heat source and heat sink.

## Abstract
A thermal interface between surfaces of a heat source and heat sink is provided. The interface is formed from an embossed, flexible, thin sheet or foil 14 of good heat conducting material e.g. aluminium or copper and is shown in the drawings in plan and section. The mating source and sink surfaces have smooth finishes and are similarly shaped. When the embossed sheet 14 is compressed between the surfaces, the amount of deformation of the sheet varies locally over the surfaces the accommodate and compensate for local variations in the spacing between the surfaces.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A thermal system in which heat is transferred through an interface between an extended substantially smooth heat emitting surface of a heat source and a parallel substantially smooth heat receiving surface of a heat sink, characterised in that the interface is formed from an embossed, crinkled, corrugated or like deformed sheet of good heat conducting material by positioning the sheet between the surfaces and evenly applying pressure between the surfaces of the heat source and sink so as to compress and deform the sheet therebetween, the amount of deformation of the sheet varying locally over the surface to accommodate and compensate for local variations in the spacing between the surface. 2. A thermal system as claimed in claim 1, further charac tensed in that the sheet is formed of aluminium or copper foil. 3. A thermal system as claimed in claim 1 or 2, further characterised in that the material of the sheet has a thickness of 2.5 x 10 3cms prior to embossing and after embossing has a thickness between 2.5 x 10 2cms and 3.7 x 10 2 cms. 4. A thermal system as claimed in claim 1, 2 or 3, further characterised in that the sheet is embossed in a regular matrix pattern, each embossment being between 2.5 x 10 2 and 5.0 x 10 2 cms square.

## Description
A THERMAL INTERFACE BETWEEN SURFACES OF A HEAT SOURCE AND HEAT SINK The invention relates to thermal systems in which heat is transferred through a thermal interface between a heat source and a heat sink. Where a thermal interface is to be formed by connecting two surfaces together, it is desirable that the surfaces be finished very smoothly to avoid cavities due to surface roughness and that the surfaces be similarly shaped so that they mate relatively well to avoid air spaces therebetween.In the situation where flat surfaces are involved, the machining tolerances are such that the surfaces cannot be made exactly flat, and consequently when they are brought into contact do not touch at all places. Air, being a good insulator, provides a high thermal resistance interface in the places where the surfaces do not touch. To overcome this high resistance, thermal greases or other good heat conductive materials such as liquids and gases have been used. The thermal greases work relatively well, but they have the disadvantage of seeping out of the interface and of being generally messy. U.S. specification No. 3,219,892 described an electric capacitor in which heat is transferred through aluminium plates forming a heat interface between the capacitor pack and the casing. The plates are bowed to contact the hottest portion of the capacitor pack and have marginal flanges which contact the cooler side walls of the casing. Such plates do not improve the heat transfer characteristics between mating surfaces and merely act to conduct heat between spaced regions. The present invention aims to reduce the thermal resistance to heat transfer between two closely adjacent heat emitting and heat recieving surfaces. Accordingly the present invention provides a thermal system in which heat is transferred through an interface between an extended substantially smooth heat emitting surface of a heat source and a parallel substantially smooth heat receiving surface of a heat sink, characterised in that the interface is formed from an embossed, crinkled, corrugated or like deformed sheet of good heat conducting material by positioning the sheet between the surfaces and evenly applying pressure between the surfaces of the heat source and sink so as to compress and deform the sheet therebetween, the amount of deformation of the sheet varying locally over the surface to accommodate and compensate for local variations in the spacing between the surface. An embodiment of the invention will now be described by way of example with reference to the accompanying drawings, in which Figure 1 is a cross sectional view through the embodiment, Figure 2 is a view of the line II II of Figure 1, Figure 3 is a view on the line III III of Figure 2, and Figure 4 is a diagrammatic perspective view showing one way in which a sheet member can be deformed. In this example, the embodiment comprises a so called gas encapsulated module somewhat similar to that disclosed in U.S. specification No. 3,993,123 but modified to embody the invention claimed herein. The module comprises an array of semi conductor chips 16 mounted on a pinned board 17. A heat conducting stud or cylinder 18 registered with each chip 16 and is urged into close thermal contact therewith by an associated spring 19.The studs and springs are received in blind bores 21 in a module housing 10. The space around the studs 18 is filled with an inert, good thermally conducting gas or vapour which in this example is helium. A thermal interface 20 fits between a heat sink cold plate 12 and the housing 10. The interface 20 is formed from an embossed thin sheet or foil 14 of good heat conducting material, such as aluminium or copper which is compressed between the plate 12 and the housing 10. The cold plate 12 is secured to the housing by clips or fittings 22. The module housing 10 serves as a heat conducting path for the heat generated in use by the chips 16. The heat passes from the chips 16 to the associated studs 18 and from the studs 18 through the gas to the housing 10. The heat is then conducted across the interface 20 to the cold plate 12. The surfaces forming the interface 20 have been carefully machined or formed and finished to a substantially smooth texture. Once these surfaces have been machined and finished they should substantially mate over their abutting areas.However, even though the surfaces have been machined flat and finished smooth, they cannot be made exactly flat and smooth because of the machining tolerances involved and the inability to remove all surface imperfections. Thus, there are air spaces or voids between the mating surfaces. Since air is an insulator, the thermal resistance of the interface formed by direct contact between the machined and smoothed surfaces would be relatively high because of the air voids there between. When the surfaces have been machined and smoothed, the embossed aluminium or copper thermal conductor 14 is located therebetween. The cold plate 12 and the module housing 10 top surface with the embossed material 14 located therebetween are clamped together by clamps 22 to give an even pressure of the mating surfaces towards one another.This mating pressure causes the embossed material 14 to deform as a function of the air voids or spaces between the mating surfaces thereby decreasing the thermal resistance of the thermal interface 20. Over areas of the mating surfaces which would actually contact one another i.e.between the air voids , the corresponding areas of the embossed foil 14 will be completely compressed and in those areas where there would be voids, that is, the surfaces do not make contact, the embossed foil will be non compressed or compressed as a function of the height of the void. We have found that surface machining can be performed accutately to within 2.5 to 5 x 10 cms. Even with these small voids, it has been found that 2.5 x 10 3cms thick aluminium fold embossed to a height between 2.5 and 3.7 x 10 cms and with an embossment width of between 2.5 and 5 x 10 2cms reduces the thermal resistance 30 to 100 of the original resistance having no interface material. A plan view of the embossed foil 14 used between the module 10 and the cold plate 12 of Figure 1 is shown in Figure 2. Figure 2 is taken on the line Il Il ofFigure 1 showing the foil 14 before deformation thereof caused by clamping the cold plate 12 to the housing 10.Figure 3 shows an enlarged, fragmentary cross sectional view taken along the lines III III of Figure 2. This shows the relative thickness t of the material and the height h and width w of the embossment. In this example t is 2.5 x 10 3cms, h is between 2.5 and 3.7 x 10 2cms and w is between 2.5 and 5 x 10 2cms. The bosses or proturberances 24 Figure 3 consist of substantially uniform small squares which tend to flatten out when subjected to a flattening pressure. Although the embossed foil is shown as being flat in Figures 2 and 3, it is flexible and, therefore, easily adaptable to other geometric shapes. During the lifetime of the cooling module shown in Figure 1, it may be necessary to service the module and thus remove the cold plate. The embossed thin heat conductive material is sufficiently cheap that a new piece of material can be inserted when reassembling the module. This provides a distinct advantage over the thermal greases utilized heretofore. It is relatively simple to emboss thin sheets of heat conductive material to obtain the advantages when used in a thermal interface. A sheet of commerical aluminium foil 26 approximately 2.5 x lOooms thick was inserted between a wire screen 28 having approximately 6 7 grids per cm, each grid cross over point being 3.3 x 10 2cms thick using 1.5 or 1.8 x 10 2cms wire, and a resilient material block 30 such as rubber. The embossing is obtained by applying a suitable downward pressure, indicated by the arrow in Figure 4, on the screen which presses against the foil backed by the rubber pad or block. The wire of the screen presses into the foil backed by the resilient material resulting in a boss or proturberance 24 in the foil at each grid square of the screen.The material cost for an embossed foil is negligible and manufacture thereof embossing is a simple manufacturing process. It is easy to apply and results in excellent reduction in thermal resistance of the interface.It can be adapted to any geometrical shape and allows the manufacturing tolerances on the interfacing parts to be less stringent. Since the initial foil material and the manufacture thereof is relatively cheap, the embossed foil is expendible and can be easily replaced when disassembly and reassembly is required. What is mechanically occurring, during the application of the pressure across the surfaces between which the embossed material is located, is that the embossing is flattening out at different rates and by different amounts throughout the surface area being joined. The rate and amount of deformation of the embossing is a function of the air voids or spaces. The arrangement reduces the interface resistance, thereby improving the thermal performance across the interface which in some cases is absolutely necessary in order to achieve a workable cooling scheme. While the invetnion has been particularly shown and described with reference to a particular example thereof, it will be understood by those skilled in the art that the various changes in form and detail may be made therein. Thus, the contacting surfaces need not be flat or plane. They may be of any matching or similar configuration.The thermal interface provided by the invention may be used in any apparatus or structure in which heat is to be transferred between two members by conduction between two mating surfaces.