# Process for the production of an immobilized enzyme system and the purification of glucose isomerase.

## Abstract
A composition comprising a thermally stable enzyme, for example intracellular or extracellular glucose isomerase, is purified by a method comprising heat treatment suitably at a temperature from 40 C to 80 C and removal of the solid mat ter formed. The resultant purified product, e.g. enzyme solu tion, is utilized to prepare an immobilized enzyme system which may be used to produce glucose from fructose. In a further embodiment a solution containing glucose isomerase is purified by acidification to precipitate proteinaceous solids, extraction of the solid with a buffer solution at pH 6 to 8, and salt fractionation of the extract solution.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A process for producing an immobilized enzyme system by immobilizing an enzyme on a solid support, characterized in that the enzyme to be immobilized, which is thermally stable, is purified by heat treatment of a composition containing the enzyme, removal of the solid matter formed by the heat treatment and recovery of a purified product containing the enzyme. 2. A method as claimed in claim 1 wherein the heat treatment is conducted at a temperature from 400C to 800C for a period of from 5 minutes to 120 minutes. 3. A method as claimed in claim 1 or 2 wherein either the composition is a suspension of cells which contain the thermally stable enzyme and whose cell walls are ruptured after the heat treatment so as to release their contents, or the composition is a suspension or solution obtained following rupture of the cell walls of cells containing the thermally stable enzyme. 4. A method as claimed in any of claims 1 to 3 wherein the enzyme is glucose isomerase. 5. A method as claimed in claim 4 wherein the glucose isomerase has been produced by microorganisms of the speciesActinoplanes missouriensis, Actinoplanes philippinensis,Actinoplanes armeniacus, Streptomyces olivochromogenes,Streptomyces venezuelae, Streptomyces coelicolor, Streptomyces aureus, Streptomyces griseolus, or Streptomyces virginiae. 6. A method as claimed in any of claims 1 to 5 wherein the purified product comprising the enzyme is a solution which is thereafter dialyzed. 7. A method as claimed in any of claims 1 to 6 wherein the solid support comprises gamma alumina contacted with polyethyleneimine and glutaraladehyde. 8. A process for purifying the enzyme glucose isomerase which comprises a treating an enzyme solution containing glucose isomerase with an acid in an amount sufficient to result in the solution having a pH from greater than 3.5 up to 4.5, thereby precipitating proteinaceous solids, and collecting the proteinaceous solids b extracting the proteinaceous solids with a buffer solution having a pH from 6 to 8 and collecting the extract solution c dissolving in the extract solution sufficient salt to attain from 40 to 45 of its saturation amount and collecting the resulting salt solution and d dissolving additional salt in the salt solution from step c in an amount sufficient to attain from 46 to 60 of its saturation amount and collecting solids containing purified enzyme. 9. A process as claimed in claim 8 wherein the buffer solution contains a buffer selected from imidazole, phosphate and tris hydroxymethylamino methane, and or the buffer solution contains divalent cobalt ions at a concentration from 10 4 to 10 2 molar or magnesium ions at a concentration from 10 3 to 10 1 molar. 10. A process as claimed in claim 8 or 9 wherein the acid is selected from hydrochloric, citric, acetic, propionic, butyric acid and organic sulfonic acids and or the salts used in steps c and d have a solubility in water at OOC at least equivalent to that of a 4 molar solution.

## Description
Process for the production of an immobilized enzyme system and the purification of glucose isomerase. This invention relates to the purification of a thermally stable enzyme, especially the enzyme glucose isomerase, and to the production of an immobilized enzyme system. It is known that fructose is substantially sweeter than glucose. Because the latter is relatively inexpensive and readily available, it is desirable to have an efficient and economical means of converting glucose to fructose. The alkaline isomerization of glucose yields fructose, but the prc duction of undesirable side products and the necessity of removing caustic and other materials from a food ingredient make this route unattractive. A more preferred isonerization method utilizes enzymes and this has the advantages of specificity of reaction and lesser likelihood of producing undesirable side products which have to be removed before the fructose containing material can be used in foods.The enzymes which effect the conversion of glucose to fructose are called glucose isomerases and are formed by bacteria such as those belonging to the genus Arthrobacter and the genusActinoplanes. These enzymes are water soluble, and if they are merely added to aqueous solutions of glucose the recovery of the enzyme for reuse is difficult and expensive. Using the enzyme only once also affords a process which is relatively expensive. Consequently, many techniques have been developed for immobilizing the enzyme in such a way that substantial enzymatic activity in isomerizing glucose to fructose is displayed while the enzyme itself remains rigidly attached to some water insoluble support, thereby permitting reuse of the enzyme over substantial periods of time and for substantial amounts of glucose containing solutions.One example of a method for immobilizing an enzyme is to be found in U.S. Patent 4,141,857, where a polyamine is absorbed on a metal oxide such as alumina, the resulting composite is treated with an excess of a bifunctional reagent, such as glutaraldehyde, so as to crosslink the amine, thereby entrapping the resulting polymer in the pores of the metal oxide, and thereafter the mass is contacted with an enzyme to form covalent bonds between the pendant aldehyde groups and amino groups on the enzyme.It is highly desirable that the material used in making the immobilized enzyme system should contain the desired enzyme, here glucose isomerase, in as chemically pure a state as possible, both to ensure maximum loading on the support and to ensure that the immobilized enzyme system will be homogeneous in respect of the kind of enzyme bound to the support, thereby ensuring maximum specificity, in the conversion of glucose to fructose in this case. This invention seeks to provide a method of producing an immobilized enzyme system. According to one aspect of the invention, a method of purifying a thermally stable enzyme, such as glucose isomerase, comprises heat treating a composition containing the enzyme, and removing the solid matter formed by the heat treatment from a purified product, e.g. a solution, comprising the enzyme. The thus purified enzyme, e.g. glucose isomerase,can then be immobilized on a solid support to form an immobilized enzyme system.A more specific version of this aspect, the individual features of which are preferred singly and in combination, comprises heat treating a cell free solution containing glucose isomerase at a temperature from 400C.to 800C for a period of from 5 minutes to 2 hours, removing solid matter produced thereby from a purified solution containing the glucose isomerase, and immobilizing the recovered glucose isomerase on a support matrix comprising gamma alumina coated with polyethyleneimine subsequently cross linked with an excess of glutaraldehyde so as to furnish a plurality of functional pendant groups. In a still more specific embodiment the glucose isomerase has been produced by a microorganism of the genus Actinoplanes or the genus Streptomyces. This invention also seeks to provide a method whereby a glucose isomerase solution may be further purified after such a heat treatment, for example after a solution containing glucose isomerase has been heated in the above temperature range for a period of from 5 to 60 minutes and then been cooled to a temperature of from OOC to 200C, and the precipitated material discarded. According to a second aspect of the invention a process for purifying the enzyme glucose isomerase comprises treating an enzyme solution containing glucose isomerase with an acid in an amount sufficient to result in the solution having a pH from 3.5 to 4.5, thereby precipitating proteinaceous solids, and collecting the proteinaceous solids, optionally resuspending these solids in a buffer solution having a pH of from 6 to 8 and collecting the resulting extract solution, optionally further purifying the enzyme solution by salt fractionation wherein a salt is added to the extract solution in an amount corresponding to 40 to 452 of its saturation amount and the solids which precipitate from this solution are discarded, and thereafter additional salt is dissolved in the salt solution so as to attain from 46 to 60, of its saturation amount and the solids containing the purified enzyme are then collected. A nine fold increase in specific activity, expressed in units of activity per milligram of protein, with total glucose isomerase recoveries of up to 85, may be realized by this procedure. Purification of an enzyme to be immobilized on a support matrix and to be utilized thereafter in an immobilized enzyme system has several purposes. One purpose is to maximize efficiency of immobilization, which is to say that it is desirable to immobilize the maximum amount of enzyme which is presented to a support matrix. Such a goal may beachieved by selectively removing from the enzyme preparation those materials which interfere with the enzyme immobilization process, or which compete with enzyme for sites on the support maxtrix which are responsible for enzyme immobilization. Another purpose of purification is to eliminate the materials which may be immobilized along with the enzyme and whose presence would be deleterious in some way to the desired enzymatic conversion.Such deleterious action would include a decrease in enzymatic activity, promotion of undesirable concurrent conversions, and a decrease in useful lifetime of the enzyme system. In this context, purification of an enzyme may be defined in two somewhat different ways. On the one hand, puri fication may be associated with a selective increase in the proportion of enzyme present relative to the total proteinaceous matter. This definition is akin to the more or less conventional chemical concept of purification and is the traditional definition of purification. In the case of enzymes, this concept of purification is measured by specific activity of the enzyme preparation, i.e. units of enzyme activity per mg. of proteinaceous matter. On the other hand, purification may be associated with achievement of a condition or status of an enzyme containing preparation such that the support matrix is blind to the presence of components other than enzyme.This definition is akin to selective removal of only those components which may interfere with the intended use of the desired component. In the case of enzymes used in immobilized enzyme systems, this latter concept of purification is measured by operational indicia, e.g. efficiency in immobilizing enzyme offered to the support matrix, specific activity of the immobilized enzyme system, specificity of the desired enzymatic reaction, useful lifetime of the immobilized enzyme system and stability of the immobilized enzyme system.It must be emphasised that in this latter concept of enzyme purification specific activity of the enzyme preparation is an inadequate index and even may be misleading. Unless stated otherwise, the term purification when used herein relates to this latter concept of enzyme purification, in contradistinction to the traditional concept of purification. The prior art describes a process for purification of glucose isomerase as exemplified in U.S. Patent 4,077,842.In this method a water miscible organic solvent, such as isopropyl alcohol, is added to an aqueous solution of the enzyme, resulting in precipitation of enzyme inactive matter. Solids are removed, and the solution is treated with a soluble magnesium salt, thereby causing precipitation of an enzyme magnesium complex which is recovered by suitable means. This method exemplifies traditional purification techniques. The necessity of resorting to extensive methods of purification under some circumstances is not denied. For example, such a method of purification may be desirable where the enzyme needs to be stored for long periods, especially in a dried state. However, we have found unexpectedly that a much sinpler, yet equally effective, expedient, namely thermal treatment, is available where a thermally stable enzyme is to be used in an immobilized enzyme system. In particular, heat treatment of a crude glucose isomerase containing composition causes precipitation of materials whose removal affords a solution of glucose isomerase from which the enzyme can be efficiently immobilized by a support matrix with the resulting immobilized enzyme system being operationally equivalent to those prepared from enzyme purified by traditional methods, such as the one described in the prior art. Glucose isomerase is an example of a thermally stable enzyme. Enzymes with glucose isomerase activity are produced by many microorganisms, including those of the genus Streptomyces, Lactobacillus, Curtobacterium, and Actinoplanes.Examples of particular species of glucose isomerase producers from the above genera include A. missouriensis, A.philippi nensis, A. armeniacus, L. pentosus, L. breves, C. citreum,C. luteum and C. helvolum, etc. The Streptomyces are particularly rich in glucose isomerase producers, and examples of such species includeS. olivochromogenes, S. venezuelae, S.coelicolor, S. aureus, S. griseolus, and S. virginiae. By way of illustration only, A. missouriensis may be cultured on a medium containing a suitable carbon source and other appropriate nutrients for a time sufficient to give maximum, or near maximum, glucose isomerase activity. Whole cells containing the enzymes are collected by suitable means such as filtration, washed, then freeze dried and resuspended in a buffer at a pH of 6 to 8. In a preferred embodiment the buffer is selected from imidazole, phosphate and tris hydroxymethylamino methane, including mixtures of two or all thereof. It is contemplated within the scope of this invention that other buffers may be used, but not necessarily with equivalent results.In addition, if so desired, the buffered solution may also contain divalent cobalt ions at a concentration in the range from 10 4 to 10 2 molar, and magnesium ions at a concentration in the range from 10 3 to 10 1 molar. To release the enzyme from the cells the cell walls must be ruptured. Examples of suitable means include chemical rup ture, as by digestion with a lysozyme enzyme preparation, or physical rupture, as by rending the walls with sound waves sonication or mechanical grinding. In one embodiment the enzyme may be released by sonication at a temperature between O 0C and 15 0C. The cell debris which is formed may be removed by any means known to those skilled in art, for example by centrifugation, to afford a solution containing the enzyme, e.g. glucose isomerase. A method wherein the cell debris is not removed prior to the heat treatment is also considered to be within the scope of this invention, although the results obtained from such a method are not necessarily equivalent. Such a crude enzyme extract, e.g. of glucose isomerase, is then subjected according to the invention to a heat treatment which performs the dual function of deactivating other enzymes and precipitating undesired material. Such treatment suitably comprises maintaining the glucose isomerase preparation at a temperature from 400C to 8O0C for a period of from 5 minutes to 120 minutes. In a preferred embodiment the en zyme preparation is heated to from 55 0C to 650C for a period of from 10 to 30 minutes or longer. The preparation then is preferably cooled rapidly to a temperature of from OOC to 200C, and material which precipitates is removed by suitable means, centrifugation for example, and discarded.The resultant solu tion of enzyme may then be immobilized directly. In another embodiment of this invention the steps of cell rupture and heat treatment may be reversed. Thus, a suspension of cells containing intracellular glucose isomerase may be maintained at a temperature from 400C to 800C for a period of 0 from 5 to 120 minutes, preferably from 55 C to 650C for a period from 10 to 30 minutes or longer. The suspension is then preferably cooled rapidly to a temperature from 0 0C to 200C, the cell walls ruptured by suitable means, as previously described, and the cell debris and coagulated organic material removed by suitable means, as by centrifugation. The clear supernatant solution may then be immobilized directly. If it is so desired, the resultant enzyme preparation may be concentrated as by ultrafiltration and or the preparation may be dialyzed against a suitable buffer. Alternatively, the enzyme preparation resulting from heat treatment may be utilized as the crude enzyme source in a more elaborate purification scheme, such as those based on solvent precipitation, or isoelectric point precipitation, or salt precipitation. It is to be emphasised, however, that immobilization of enzyme from the heat treated preparation alone gives an immobilized enzyme system which is operationally equivalent to that obtained from the more highly purified preparations. In those instances where an extensive purification of glucose isomerase is desired, a procedure subsequent to the heat treatment of the enzyme involving acid treatment salt fractionation may be used. Following the heat treatment at a temperature of from 400C to 80 0C for a period from 5 to 60 minutes, the mixture may be cooled rapidly to 0 0C 0 to 20 C and the precipitated material discarded. The subsequent operations in the present process are conveniently performed at temperatures in the range from OOC to 200C, and preferably in a range of from OOC to 50C. The cooled solution is acidified, generally until the pH is in the range from 3.5 to 5.0. In the case of glucose isomerase from A. missouriensis the preferred pH range is from 3.6 to 4.4. Examples of acids which may be used for the acidification are inorganic acids such as hydrochloric acid, organic carboxylic acids such as citric, acetic, propionic and butyric acids and organic sulfonic acids such as benzenesulfonic acid, toluene sulfonic acid and methanesulfonic acid. It is to be understood that these acids are not limiting on the invention, and that other acids may be used, but not necessarily with equivalent results. In a preferred embodi ment of the invention the acid employed is acetic acid. The solids which form upon acidification may then be collected by suitable means, such as centrifugation, and subsequently resuspended in a buffer, preferably a buffer selected from the aforementioned group of buffers, at a pH from 6 to 8. This buffer may also contain divalent cobalt ions or magnesium ions or a mixture thereof, in their aforementioned polarity ranges. Such resuspension is equivalent to extraction of glucose isomerase because not all of the solids obtained upon acidification are soluble in said buffer, and these solids are removed by suitable means and discarded. The enzyme in solution may now be further purified by salt fractionation. A salt is added to the cooled solution in an amount typically corresponding to 40 to 50 of its saturation amount i.e. the total amount of salt which can be dissolved in the solution . In a preferred embodiment, the salt has a solubility such that at least a 4 molar solution in water at 0 C can be obtained, but is otherwise without limitation.Examples of such salts include ammonium sulfate, ammonium acid sulfate, sodium chloride, potassium acetate, potassium carbonate, and potassium chloride. In another preferred embodiment the salt is an alkali metal or alkaline earth metal sulfate, such as Li2S04, Na2S04, K2S04, Rb2SO11, Cs2SO4 and MgS04. After allowing the solids to precipitate, suitably for a period from 5 to 60 minutes, preferably for a period from 10 to 20 minutes, the solids may be removed by suitable means and discarded.At this point an additional amount of the salt is dissolved such that the total amount in solution corresponds to from 41 to 60 of its saturation amount,sreferably from 50 to 50 of its saturation amount, thereby causing precipitation of glucose isomerase. After a period suitably of from 5 to 60 minutes, but preferably from 10 to 30 minutes, the precipitate of purified glucose isomerase may be collected by suitable means, such as centrifugation. Salts can be removed from the purified enzyme by any means, for example by dialysis or gel permeation chromatography. The solid which is collected as described above may be redissolved in a buffer solution containing a buffer, preferably selected from the above group, at a pH from 6 to 8, and which may also contain divalent cobalt and or magnesium ions in the above ranges. This enzyme solution may be dialyzed overnight against the same solvent used to dissolve the enzyme. The process carried out in this way can provide an enzyme with up to 9 fold purification, by which is meant that the specific activity, expressed in units of activity per milligram of protein, is about 9 fold greater for the final enzyme preparation than it was for the initial enzyme preparation.In addition, total recoveries of glucose isomerase can range up to 85 , by which is meant that the total activity of the final enzyme preparation can be up to 85 of that of the initial enzyme preparation. A surprising discovery is that solutions of certain compositions enhance the time periods during which glucose isomerase can be stored without losing substantial activity, and that these same solutions impart enhanced resistance to thermal deactivation of said glucose isomerase. These solutions contain glycerol in amounts ranging from 5 to 60 on a volumevolume basis, imidazole as a buffer at a pR of 6 to 8, divalent cobalt ion in a concentration of 10 4 to 10 2 molar, and magnesium ion in a concentration of 10 3 to 10 1 molar. The ability of the aforementioned solutions to impart these desirable properties to the enzyme will be shown in greater detail in the examples which are appended to the specification. The following examples illustrate the process of this invention but it is to be understood that this invention is not limited thereto.EXAMPLE 1 Actinoplanes missouriensis NRRL 3342 was cultured aero 0 bically at 29 C in a fermenter using the following medium per 10 liters 200 g Casein Hydrolysate 100 g Yeast Autolysate 50 g NaCl 5 g L Cystine 5 g Na2SO3 30 ml 1M MgSo4 7H2o 500 ml 1M Potassium phosphate buffer, pH 7.0 50 g 500ml Galactose, autoclaved separately. Cells were harvested by filtration after an inoculum of 0.05 volume of fresh, mature cultures. The cell paste was washed once with 0.05M phosphate buffer, pH 7.0, containing 9 g NaCl per liter to give a yield of cells of about 60 g dry weight per 10 liters having an enzyme activity of about 1200 units gram dry cells. Glucose isomerase catalyzes formation of an equilibrium mixture of glucose and fructose. The method of enzyme assay, utilized in these examples is to measure the initial rate of glucose formation from fructose at 600C as opposed to the usual assay method which measures the initial rate of fructose formation from glucose.A 1.0 ml portion of appropriately diluted enzyme or enzyme containing cells was mixed with an assay solution which contained fructose, 2.5M, tris hydroxy methylamino methane hydrochloride buffer, 2 x 10 2M, at pH 7.5, magnesium sulfate, 5 x 10 M, and cobaltous chloride, 5 x 10 M. After incubation at 600C for 30 60 minutes the reaction was terminated by addition of 1 ml of O.lN hydrochloric acid, and the glucose formed was measured with a glucose analyzer. One unit of glucose isomerase activity corresponds to formation of 1 micromole glucose per minute.Specific activity corresponds to micromoles of glucose formed per minute per milligram of protein used. The freeze dried cells were suspended in 50 mM imidazole buffer, pH 7.0, containing 10 2M MgS04 and 10 3M coy12, to a concentration of 5g w v and subjected to sonic disintegration at about 800 for 12 minutes. The sonically disintegrated mixture was centrifuged at 12,000 rpm for 10 minutes and the cell debris discarded. The supernatant was heated at 60 0C for 20 minutes, then cooled quickly in an ice bath. Precipitated protein was removed by centrifugation 12,000 rpm for 10 min. and discarded. The specific activity, i.e. the units of enzyme activity per mg of protein present, was about 1.8 in the extract before heat treatment, and about 3.7 in the heat treated preparation.Thus, heat treatment affords only a 2 fold increase in purity in the traditional sense. A support matrix comprising gamma alumina, 60 80 mesh, coated with polyethyleneimine subsequently cross linked with an excess of glutaraldehyde so as to furnish a plurality of pendant functional groups was used to immobilize the enzyme. The immobilization procedure included contacting, with agitation, the support matrix at a temperature from O 0C to 200C with the enzyme solution at a pH from 6 to 8 for a time from 6 to 30 hours. Excess solution was removed by decantation, the solid was washed with 2M NaCl to remove adhering but mobile enzyme, and finally washed with water. The immobilized enzyme system obtained thereby had an activity of 1150 1350 units per gram. The system was used as a fixed bed in the conversion of glucose to fructose, using 45 Cerelose as the feedstock at 6o0C and a pH of about 8 at a constant flow rate so as to afford initially about 42 conversion of glucose to fructose. The half life of columns so prepared was 35 40 days. For comparison, enzyme purified by more elaborate traditional means and which had a specific activity of about 16 units per mg protein afforded immobilized enzyme systems whose activity was 1200 1400 units per gm with half lives of 3540 days.EXAMPLE 2 The heat treated enzyme preparation of Example 1 was concentrated by ultra filtration, then dialyzed against a phosphate buffer at pom7. The resulting enzyme was immobilized by the procedure described in Example 1 to afford an enzyme system whose activity was 1150 units per gm and whose halflife under conditions of the aforementioned Example was 38 days.EXAMPLE 3 The heat treated enzyme preparation of Example 1 was further purified by precipitation of glucose isomerase with acetic acid at pH 4. The resulting solid was redissolved in a phosphate buffer at pH 7 and dialyzed against this same buffer. Immobilization as described in the previous examples gave a system whose initial activity was 1350 units per g, with a half life of 39 days under the conditions described in Example 1.EXAMPLE 4 To show that the support matrix was loaded with enzyme to its maximum capacity the following experiments were run. One gram of support was used to immobilize enzyme from heat treated solutions containing 1200, 1400, and 1700 units of glucose isomerase by the procedure given in Example 1.In each case the excess solution and rinses were analyzed for recovered enzyme, which amounted to 400, 600 and 900 units, respectively. Thus, 800 units of enzyme were loaded regardless of the amount afforded. In similar experiments where the enzyme was further treated as described in Example 2, 1000 2000 units of enzyme was offered to 1 gm of support matrix.The final immobilized enzyme system in all cases had an activity of 1200 1300 units per gm. The results of these experiments show the absence of material in the heat treated enzyme preparation which would interfere with glucose isomerase immobilization.EXAMPLE 5 Actinoplanes missouriensis NRRL 3342 was cultured 0 aerobically at 29 C in a fermenter using the following medium per 10 liters 200 g Casein Hydrolysate 100 g Yeast Autolysate 50 g NaCl 5 g L Cystine 5 g Na2 SO3 30 ml 1M MgS04 7H20 500 ml 1M Potassium phosphate buffer, pH 7.0 50 g 500 ml Galactose, autoclaved separately. Cells were harvested by filtration after an inoculum of 0.05 volume of fresh mature cultures. The cell paste was washed once with 0.05M phosphate buffer, pH 7.0, containing 9g NaCl per liter to give a yield of cells of about 60 g dry weight per 10 liters having an enzyme activity of about 1200 units gram dry cells. Enzyme activity was assayed as in Example 1. The freeze dried cells were suspended in 50 mM imidazole buffer, pH 7.0, containing 10 M Mugs04 and 10 3M CoC12, to a concentration of 5 w v and subjected to sonic disintegration at about 80C for 12 minutes All subsequent operations were carried out at O 40C except heat treatment of the enzyme. The sonically disintegrated mixture was centrifuged at 12,000 rpm for 10 minutes and the cell debris discarded.The supernatant 780 ml was heated at 600C for 20 minutes, then cooled quickly in an ice bath. Precipitated protein was removed by centrifugation 12,000 rpm for 10 min. and discarded. The supernatant 675 ml from heat treatment was further purified by acid precipitation. To the clear super nay ant solution, a 2N acetic acid solution was added until the pH of the enzyme solution reached pH 4.0. Precipitate was collected after several minutes by centrifugation 12,000 rpm . This pellet of protein was resuspended with a tissue homogenizer in about 170 ml of 0.2M of an imidazole buffer at pH 7.0 containing 10 M MgS04 and 10 3M Coy12. Insoluble precipitate was then removed by centrifugation. Solid ammonium sulfate was added to the clear supernatant to 45 saturation. After 15 minutes, the mixture was centrifuged 20 min. at 16,000 rpm and precipitate was discarded. The resulting supernatant received additional ammonium sulfate to 55 saturation. After 15 minutes, the precipitate was collected by centrifugation and dissolved in about 50 ml of O.05N of an imidazole buffer, pH 7.0, containing 10 2 MgS04and 10 3M Cowl2. The solution was dialyzed over night against the same buffer. The following table shows that about a 9 fold purification with over 80 recovery from crude extract was obtained. TABLE I Summary of the Purification of Glucose IsomeraseFraction Volume Activity Total Protein Specific Yield Purifi ml Units ml Units mg ml Activity cation units mg CrudeExtract 780 51.6 40,248 28.3 1.82 100 HeatTreatment 675 51.6 34,830 13.9 3.71 86.5 2.0AcidPrecipitation 192 135 25,920 15.8 8.54 64.4 4.7 45 55 NH4 2s04 63 528 33,264 33 16 82.6 8.8 The data of Table I clearly show that initially the enzyme preparation showed an activity of 1.82 units mg protein, whereas after the application of the process of this invention the enzyme preparation showed an activity of 16 units mg protein, corresponding to an increase of about 9 fold.There was initially present 40,248 units of activity, and after the application of the process of this invention there was present 33,264 units of activity, corresponding to recovery of over 80 glucose isomerase activity. The glucose isomerase so purified shows unexpected stability in a solution of an imidazole buffer, at neutral pH, containing glycerol and divalent cobalt ions. When stored in an aqueous solution containing 25 glycerol on a volume volume basis, imidazole buffer at pH 7.0, and 10 3 molar CoC12, the glucose isomerase showed no detectable decrease in activity after a month at either 40C or 400C. In stark contrast, the purified glucose isomerase showed loss of more than 50 of its activity when stored for 2 months at 400C in O.lN phosphate buffer. Addition of glycerol at a concentration of 25 to 50 on a volume volume basis, to the phosphate buffer did not have appreciable beneficial effects.That divalent cobalt ions impart thermal resistance to deactivation of purified glucose isomerase is shown dramatically by the following observation. Purified enzyme dissolved in an imidazole buffer at pH 7.0 containing 10 molar Cock2 showed no loss of activity when heated to 600C for 60 minutes. When the same enzyme was dissolved in the same buffer in the absence of divalent cobalt ions, there was more than a 30 loss of activity when heated to 600C for only 20 minutes. EXAMPLES 6 9 These examples show the pH range over which acidification is effective to purify glucose isomerase from A. missouriensis by precipitation. In all examples 30 ml of a heattreated enzyme solution were used. To each was added a sufficient amount of 1N acetic acid to adjust the pH in increments of 0.5 unit from a pH of 5.0 to 3.5. The resulting precipitate was separated from the supernatant solution and dissolved in a phosphate buffer. Total enzyme activity was measured for both the supernatant and the solution of the formed precipitate with the results shown in Table II. TABLE II Total Units of ActivityExample รง Supernatant Precipitate 2 5.0 1922 0 3 11.5 1972 0 4 4.0 0 1366 5 3.5 0 0 These data show that this enzyme is not precipitated at pH 4.5 and above, and that it is completely deactivated at pH 3.5 and below. Glucose isomerase from other microorganisms may have similarly narrow ranges of pH within which enzyme precipitation is effectively induced.EXAMPLES 10 14 Experiments to determine the optimum salt concentration for fractionation of glucose isomerase from A. missouriensis were performed in the following manner. To aliquot portions of equal volume of acid precipitated enzyme in a buffer there was added ammonium sulfate in concentrations ranging from 35 55 of its saturation amount. Solids were separated from the supernatant solution and dissolved in about 3 ml of phosphate buffer. One ml portions each of the supernatant and the solution from precipitated solids were assayed for glucose isomerase activity. Results are shown in Table III. TABLE IIIExample Saturation Level Activity per ml of NH4 2So4 Supernatant Precipitate 6 35 82.9 o 7 40 86.8 o 8 45 70.4 0 9 , 50 42.7 38.9 10 55 10.0 74.8 The data of Table III clearly show that when added at levels up to 45 of its saturation amount ammonium sulfate causes selective precipitation of glucose isomerase inactive proteins. After these are removed, further addition of ammonium sulfate causes selective precipitation of glucose isomerase active proteins, thereby effecting a purification of glucose isomerase.