# Self discharging vehicle.

## Abstract
Self discharging vehicle, for example a feed trailer for agricultural use, has a tippin body 12 and a power driven discharge impeller 16 which is mounted on the vehicle chassis 11 not on the body 12 adjacent an edge part of a wall 13 of the body 12 which part becomes the lower edge of its discharge mouth when it is tipped. During tipping the material is progressively displaced towards the impeller 16 which throws it clear, preferably to one side of the direction of travel. It is also preferred that the body 12 is raised during tipping and the impeller 16 is positioned at sufficient height to discharge the material over the top of feed fences of agricultural stock yards.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A self discharging vehicle for bulk material including a chassis a container body operatively mounted on the chassis for tipping movement relative thereto to displace a load of material in the body towards a discharge mouth thereof defined by edge arts of the body walls and an operatively power driven discharge Impeller characterised in that said impeller 16 is mounted at an operatively fixed location on the chassis 11 at or adjacent that wall edge part 19 which defines the lowermost edge of said mouth when the body 12 is tipped, the body moving relative to the impeller during tipping so that the load is progressively acted on by the impeller for discharge from the vehicle as tipping proceeds. A vehicle as in Claim 1 characterised in that said impeller 16 extends along said wall edge part 19 generally outside the envelope of the body 12 when the latter is upright. 3. vehicle as in Claim 1 or 2 characterised in tnat the body 12 Is mounted for angular movement about a tipping axis A fixed with respect to the chassis 11 . 4. A vehicle as in Claim 3 characterised in that said tipping axis A is substantially above the bettom level of the body 12 when the latter is upright and is coincident with or in near parallel relationship to the impeller 16 so that an upper zone of tn body is on a level to one side of the impeller in the upright position, and a lower zone of the body is elevated to the level of or above the impeller in the fully tipped pesits 5. a vehicle as in any one precading claim characterised in that the body 12 is tipped for discharge to on side of the path of travel of the vehicle as it moves ferward. 6. a vehicle as in any one preceding claim characterised in that the impeller 16 is rotatably driven about a horize tal av in cl s proxi ity to said wall edg part ,. 7. A Vehicle as in Claim 6 characterised in that the direction of rotation of the im ller 6 is such as to carry the rattrial over its axis of rotation B . 8. A Vehicle as in Claim 6 or 7 so far as dependent upon Claim 7 or 4 charactersed in that the axis of rotation B of the impeller 16 is co incident with or in near parallel relationship to the ti ing axis A of the body 12 .

## Description
SELF DISCHARGING VEHICLE. DESCIPTION This invention relates to vehicles, particularly but not exclusively tractor drawn trailers for agricultural use, for handling and discharging bulk material, for example silage or other fodder or processed feed served to stock at feed fences of yards or other enclosures in which the stock is wintered, or to stock in the field. Manual handli of such bulk materials as consolidated silage is extremely laborious and time conuming. fetid fences of stock yards are usually around 1.3 meters high and conventional feeding apparatus operates through the fence which is slow and inefficient as reasonable alignment with the fence openings is necessary for clear delivery. The object of the invention is to provide a bulk material vehicle of simple and reliable construction, which is easy to use and speedy in operation, and which will discharge at a height edge over the top of a feed fence. According to the invention there is provided a self discharging vehicle for bulk material including a chassis a container body operatively mounted on the chassis for tipping movement relative thereto to displace a load of material in the body towards a discharge mouth thereof defined by edge parts of the body walls and an operatively power driven disc r p. Impeller moulted at an operatively fixed location on the chassis at or adjacent that wall edge part which defines the lowermost edge of said mouth when the body is tipped, the body moving relative to thz impeller during tipping so that the load is progressively acted on by the impeller for discharge from the vehicle as tipping proceeds. One way of carrying out the invention is now described in detail with reference to the accompanying drawings illustrating a specific embodiment, in which Figure 1 is a perspective view of a feed trailer, and Figure 2 is a like view of the trailer with its body fully tipped. The vehicle shown is a feed trailer to be used in conjunction with the kind of yard feed fence referred to above or for other bulk handling functions and comprises a two wheeled tractor drawn chassis 11 on which is mounted a side tipping body 1 . Body 12 has an open top forming a discharge mouth and a rounded outer bottom wall. One side wall 13 Figure 1 is only approximately half the height of the remaining walls. The body is pivoted for tipping movement about a longitudinal axis A substantially coincident with the upper edge part of side wall 13, hinge shafts of the body on axis A being journalled on cantilever supports 14 at end of the chassis.Tipping is effected by hydraulic rams 15 one only visible in drawings acting between chassis 11 arid the respective ends of body 12 and corrected, in use, to the tractor hydnulic system. Also carried on supi,ort 14 spaced above and slightly laterally outwards from axis A is a rotary impeller 16 the full length of the body in the form of a shaft rotating about a longitudinal axis B having a series of staggered impeller blades 17. The impeller is rotated in the direction of arrow C from the tractor P.T.O. shaft by way of a belt or chain drive 18 mounted on the froiit cantilever support l Immedintely 1y l W imp I r I , i A L l,l t sill 19 fixed between supports 14. With body le in the upright position of Figure 1 the upper zone of the body is level with impeller 16 and lies entirely to one side thereof so that the body is unobstructed for loading e.g. with animal feed from a silage pit or heap using a tractor front loader or similar equipmeht. To serve the Silage or other feed to stock in a yard having a feed fence the trailer is simply driven along the fence so that sill 19 is over or adjacent to the top of the fence with impeller 16 rotating and the body being progressively tipped towards the position shown in Figure 2. As tipping proceeds the load is raised and slid sideways towards tht discharge mouth defined by the body wall edge parts so that the load is progressively acted on by the RTI ID 4.7 impeller 16 and discharged from the trailer over the fence. hen thc fully tipped position of Rigure 2 is reached the entire load will have been discharged as a lower zone of the body has then been elevated to or above the impeller 16. A pair of arcuate slots JU in the body and walls perlliits the body to tip past axis B and the supports of sill 19 so that impeller 16 call enter right into the lower zoile of body l ill the fully tipped position in close proximity to the edge part of wall 15 which part defindes the RTI ID 4.25 lowermost edge of thL discharge mouth of that body in that position. To further facilitate complete emptying of the body a planar false floor 21 Figure 2 is fit ted WI within thy side wall 13 andCart of tile curved bottom wall to form a downward Slope leading to sill 19 in the fully tipped position. The segmental sectioned space between floor l and the bottom wall contains ballast weighting to improve stability of the vehicle when the body is fully tipped and empty. The above construction is simple, has few moving parts, and is jrticularly convenient to Use arid maintain arid vaill result in considerable saving in time and labour particularly in distributing feed as described above in that Speedy non stop discharge can be effected over the top of the feed fence. It is antic ated that solf propelled or trailer vehicles embodying the invention may have other applications in the handling of bulk materiats particutarly where asy discharge at height from the ground is destrabte, e.g. in handling farmyard manure, houschold refuse or similar bulky materials. For some applications the body could be rear or front tipping inst ad of side tipping. As impeller 16 is journalled on a fixed mounting on the vehicle chassis it does not have to move with the body and the need for complex jointed or flexible drive connections or expensive hydraulic motors is avoided. It is preferred that impeller 16 rotates in direction C so that the feed or other material is carried above its axis of rotation to avoid risk of jamming or clogging between the impeller and the edge part of wall 13 or sill 19, and also to further increase the level at which discharge takes place Other for of Impeller iflight bt employed, e.g. a spiral auger or a flail type of beater, and the invention might be applied to vehicle bodies with other tipping movements e.g. rolling on a curved bottom or sliding in curved guides instead of tipping about a single axis.