# An ash disposal system for ash discharged from a coal fired combustion chamber.

## Abstract
Apparatus for handling ash produced in the combus tion of coal in the furnace 10 of a steam generator, in cluding an ash hopper 14 beneath the furnace 10 , a water transport system 26 for carrying the ash away from the hopper 14 , a screen arrangement 32 for separating most of the water from the ash, and a relatively small set tling bin 40 or tank for separating the ash from the re mainder of the water. The separated water can be recycled In a closed loop 44 , to be used again as the transport water.

## Claims
Claims 1. An ash disposal system for ash discharged from a coal fired combustion chamber, including an ash hopper 14 positioned beneath the combustion chamber 10 into which the ash falls, means 18,20 for maintaining a given water level 16 in the ash hopper 14 , a discharge opening in the bottom of the ash hopper 14 , through which the ash is discharged, screen means 34,36 for separating ash from water, pipe means 26 connecting the ash hopper 14 discharge opening with the screen means 32 , means for adding transport water to the pipe 26 at a point adjacent the ash hopper 14 discharge opening, means 42 46 for recycling the water separated in the screen means 32 back to the point adjacent the ash hopper 14 discharge opening, and means 38 by which the separated ash can be discharged from the screen means 32 . 2. An ash disposal system as set forth in Claim 1, including a holding tank 28 in the pipe means 26 upstream of the screen means 32 . 3. An ash disposal system set forth in Claim 2, wherein the screen means 32 includes a pair of screens 34,36 , the first of which separates coarse ash particles from the water, and the second of which separates fine ash particles from the water. 4. An ash disposal system as set forth in Claim 3, including a settling tank 40 downstream of the screen means 32 ash discharge opening 38 .

## Description
AN ASH DISPOSAL SYSTEM FOR ASH DISCHARGED FROM A COAL FIRED COMBUSTION CHAMBER The invention relates to an ash disposal system for ash discharged from a coal fired combustion chamber, particularly for the pretreatment to dewater bottom ash from a steam generator firing solid fuels. In coal fired steam generators, the manner inwhich the ash is disposed of is a matter of considerable importance.The equipment for handling the ash is costly and can require much maintenance. In prior systems, the ash is usually removed from an ash hopper beneath the steam generator furnace along with a considerable amount of water and allowed to settle out in dewatering bins over a long period of time, such as 18 hours. Thus, large amounts of water have to be stored and held in reserve, not only requiring much water but also a huge storage facility. Also, in colder climates, the dewatering bins are subject to freezing and plugging during the lengthy dewatering period. The invention as claimed is intended to provide a remedy. In particular, the invention provides an ash handling system for the furnaces of steam generators, including an ash hopper beneath the furnace, a water transport system for carrying the ash away from the hopper, a screen arrangement for separating most of the water from the ash so it can be recycled, and a relatively small settling bin for separating the ash from the remainder of the water. One way of carrying out the invention is described in detail below with reference to the drawing, wherein the figure is a sectional side view of an ash disposal system for the furnace of a steam generator. In the Figure, numeral 10 designates the furnace of a steam generator in which coal is burned as a fuel. Slag and ash fall through the bottom opening 12 into an ash hopper 14, which is kept filled with water to a level 16 by means of pipe 18, which continuously admits water to the hopper. An overflow pipe 20 keeps the water level constant. A valve 22 is periodically opened to discharge the ash. A clinker grinder 24 breaks up the large ash particles so that they will not become jammed in the discharge opening, and so that they may be easily transported in a stream of water away from the hopper 14. Generally, the material discharged from the hopper 14 contains 75 solids, and 25 water. Water is added to the transport pipe 26, so that the mix transported therein is 20 ash and 80 water. This mixture is transported to a holding or surge tank 28. A gate valve 30 in the bottom of tank 28 can be opened at short intervals, or be maintained in an opened position except when the equipment downstream thereof is being repaired, to discharge the ash and water into a vibrating dewatering screen arrangement 32. A pair of screens, 34 and 36, are continuously vibrated in any well known manner, to separate the ash from a majority of the water. The first screen 34 can separate out the more coarse particles, and screen 36 can remove the fines. The screens are preferably slightly inclined, so that the solids gravitate towards and are discharged through outlet 38. Some water will still be carried over with the ash. The mixture being discharged through outlet 38 will be approximately 25 water and 75 ash, and is discharged into holding tank 40. From here, it can be discharged into a truck, storage pond, etc. The water flowing through the screens is discharged through opening 42, and flows through pipe 44 and pump 46 back to the hopper discharge to be used again as transport water. From the above, it can be seen that a system is provided which eliminates the need for large settling tanks. The majority of the water can be quickly recycled, thus reducing the requirement for large quantities of water. Also, because very little time is involved, there are no freezing or plugging problems in the system.The majority of the water is constantly flowing.