# Connector for electric wires.

## Abstract
Connector for two or more parallel electrical wire ends 7 , consisting of a body 1 of electrically insulating material, a cap 9 of electrically insulating material, which is permanently connected with the body 1 , said body 1 being provided with a number of insert openings 4 for the wire ends 7 , and contact member 2 with recesses 3 aligned with the insert openings 4 and a spring member 5 with lips 6 for holding the wire ends 7 .

## Claims
C L A I M S 1. Connector for two or more parallel electrical wire ends, consisting of a cylindrical or polythedral body of electrically insulating material with a number of insert openings for the wire ends through the body, which openings being arranged in a ring, a spring member of elastic metal with a corresponding number of lips, a contact member connected with the body of insulating material, against which the wire ends can be pressed by the lips and cap of electrically insulating material, c h a r a c t e r i z e d in that the contact member 2,2t extends beyond one of the end faces of the body 1 of electrically insulating material, in that the outer surface of the contact member 2,2 is provided with a number of longitudinally extending recesses 3,3 for the wire ends 7 , substantially aligned with the insert openings 4 in the body 1 , and in that the spring member consists of a round or polygonal elastic metal disc 5 , its lips 6 being directed towards the outer face and the free end of the contact member 2 which disc 5 is held between said body 1 and the cap 9 , which cap 9 is connected permanently with said body 1 2. Connector according to claim 1, whereby the contact member consists of copper sheet or a sheet of other electrically conducting material, c h a r a c t e r i z e d in that the contact member 2 is cup shaped, with a corrugated sidewall for forming the recesses 3 for the wire ends 7 . 3. Connector according to claim 1 or 2, c h a r a c t e r i z e d in that the cap 9 of insulating material with its free edge fits around the outer periphery of the body 1 of insulating material and is connected therewith by screwing, clamping, glueing or welding.

## Description
Connector for electric wires. The invention relates to a connector for two or more parallel electrical wire ends, consisting of a cylindrical or polythedral body of electrically insulating material with a number of insert openings for the wire ends through the body, which openings being arranged in a ring, a spring member of elastic metal with a corresponding number of lips, a contact member connected with the body of insulating material, against which the wire ends can be pressed by the lips and a cap of electricallyssnsulating material. Such a connector is known from German Offenlegungsschrift 2.509.512. Connectors for electric wires are used in very large quantities.These connectors must be simple of construction, cheap, easy to use, provide a very good electric insulation even in moist surroundings and a very good electric contact between the wire ends. The known connector consists of a body of electric insulating material with a sleeve shaped metal contact member, whereby the wire ends are pressed against the innerside of the sleeve by means of a rather complicated spring member. The lips of the spring member are loop shaped. After inserting the wire ends in the connector the cap is mounted on the body, which cap is provided with a thickened stem, pressing the lips against the wire ends through the loops.This means that after inserting the wire ends the connector must still be closed by the cap. Further the wire ends are lying against the smooth innerface of the sleeve, which means that their position is not well determined. It is possible that the wire end does not lie between the belonging lip and the innerface of the sleeve. Moreover, the loop shaped lips do not prevent withdrawel of the wire ends. The present invention aims to provide a connector which avoids all these drawbacks. According to the present invention this is obtained in that the contact member extends beyond one of the end faces of the body of electrically insualting material, in that the outer surface of the contact member is provided with a number of longitudinally extending recesses for the wire ends, substantially aligned with the insert openings in the body, and in that the spring member consists of a round or polygonal elastic metal disc, its lips being directed towards the outer face and the free end of the contact member, which disc is held between said body and the cap, which cap is connected permanently with said body. For using this connector only the wire ends needs to be inserted in the openings.Undesired return movement is prevented, since the rather sharp ends of the lips hold the wire ends and will press the wire ends more powerful against the recess if one tries to draw back the wire end.If return movement is necessary for changing the connection the wire end can be removed by oscillating the wire end about its axis and simultaneously pulling the wire. The whole connector is closed already before inserting the wire ends. Further features and advantages of the invention will appear from the following description referring to the drawing, in which Fig. 1 is a perspectivic view of a first embodiment of the connector according to the invention, without cover cap Fig. 2 is a top view of the connector of fig. 1, also without cap Fig. 3 is a longitudinal section of this connector with spaced cap Fig. 4 is a view of a contact member for the connector according to a second embodiment of the invention and Fig. 5 is a side view of the contact member according to fig. 4. The connector according to the invention consist of a cylindrical or polythedral body of electrically insulating material, for instance synthetic resin. An oblong contact member 2 of copper or another electrically conducting material is with one end connected to said body 1. This contact member 2 is in cross section hexagonal. In each face a halfround recess 3 is present, which is aligned with one of the insert openings 4 in the body 1. These insert openings are arranged in a ring and extend through the body 1. Against an end face of the body 1 a round or hexagonal disc 3 of spring steel is arranged with upwardly and inwardly directed lips 6. When the stripped end 7 of an electrical wire 8 is inserted upwardly through the insert opening 4 in the connector, the end 7 pushes the lip 6 outwardly somewhat. The wire 8 cannot return.This also applies for the other wires, between which an electrical connection must be made. When a certain recess 3 needs not contain a wire end 7, the free end of the lip 6 lies at least partly within the recess 3. The connectors are. delivered provided already with a cover cap 9, also of electrically insulating material. This cap 9 is permanently connected with the outer periphery of the body 1 by screwing, clamping, glueing, welding or the like. This cap 9 insulates the metal parts of the connector, but serves also for holding the spring member 5 against an end face of the body 1. When for some reason it is desired to make the contact member of an electrically non conducting material, for instance at lowvoltage current, the body and the contact member can be one piece of electrically insulating material. In that case only the spring member 5 provides for the electrical contact. At an electrically conducting contact member it is not necessary to make the contact member 2 of solid copper or the like. It is also possible to make the contact member as a hollow sleeve, In that case it is possible to start from a cylindrical or multi lateral sleeve, which is provided with recesses by pressing or drawing. However, it is preferred to start from a plane sheet of metal and to form a kind of cup 2 with corrugated sidewall, see fig. 4 and 5. The valleys of the corrugations extend in a line with insert openings 4 and form the recesses 3 . This cup 3 is connected to a projection of the body 1. It is not necessary to connect it positively, since also the cap 9 can hold it.