# Pesticidal tetrazines, their use and compositions, processes for their preparation and preparation intermediates.

## Abstract
The tetrazines and dihydrotetrazines of the formula CHEM wherein R 1 , R 2 and R 4 , which may be the same or different, each represent hydrogen, phenyl, alkyl of 1 to 6 carbon atoms, or alkenyl or alkynyl of 3 to 6 carbon atoms, each of which may be unsubstituted or substituted by one or more halogen atoms, hydroxy groups, cyano groups, carboxy groups, alkoxycarbonyl groups of 2 to 5 carbon atoms or alkoxy groups of 1 to 4 carbon atoms or R 1 and R 2 together represent a single bond Hal represents fluorine, chlorine, bromine or iodine and R 3 represents 2 iodophenyl, 2,5 dihalophenyl, 2 methylthiophenyl, cyclohexyl, cyclohexylalkyl, cyclohexenyl, cyclohexadienyl, 1 napnthyl, 2 naphthyl or biphenylyl, each of the cyclohexyl, cyclohexenyl, cyclohexadienyl, naphthyl or biphenylyl moieties of which may be unsubstituted to substituted by one or more alkyl, alkoxy or alkylthio groups of 1 to 6 carbon atoms, hydroxy, mercapto or cyano groups, halogen atoms, alkanoyloxy groups of 2 to 6 carbon atoms, amino or phenylamino groups, or alkylamino or dialkylamino groups, each alkyl moiety of which is of 1 to 6 carbon atoms, are effective to combat pests, particularly acarids and their eggs. The compounds are new and processes for their preparation are described.

## Claims
1. The tetrazines and dihydrotetrazines of the formula EMI28.1 or of the formula EMI28.2 wherein R1, R2 and R4, which may be the same or different, each represent hydrogen, phenyl, alkyl of 1 to 6 carbon atoms, or alkenyl or alkynyl of 3 to 6 carbon atoms, each of which may be unsubstituted or substituted by one or more halogen atoms, hydroxy groups, cyano groups, carboxy groups, alkoxycarbonyl groups of 2 to 5 carbon atoms or alkoxy groups of 1 to 4 carbon atoms or R1 and R2 together represent a single bond Hal repre sents fluorine, chlorine, bromine or iodine and R3 represents 2 iodophenyl, 2,5 dihalophenyl, 2 methylthiophenyl, cyclohexyl, cyclohexylalkyl, cyclohexenyl, cyclohexadienyl, l naphthyl, 2 naphthyl or biphenylyl, each of the cyclohexyl, cyclohexenyl, cyclohexadienyl, naphthyl or biphenylyl moieties of which may be unsubstituted or substituted by one or more alkyl, alkoxy or alkylthio groups of 1 to 6 carbon atoms, hydroxy, mercapto or cyano groups, halogen atoms, alkanoyloxy groups of 2 to 6 carbon atoms, amino or phenyIamino groups, or alkylamino or dialkyl amino groups, each alkyl moiety of which is of 1 to 6 carbon atoms. 2. The compounds according to claim 1 wherein R1, R2 and R4 each represent hydrogen or alkyl of 1 to 4 carbon atoms, or R1 and R2 together represent a bond. 3. The compounds according to claim 1 or claim 2 whereinHal represents chlorine or bromine. 4. The compounds according to any of claims 1 to 3 wherein R3 represents 2 iodophenyl, 2,5 dihalophenyl or 2 methylthiophenyl. 5. The compounds according to any of claims 1 to 3 wherein R3 represents unsubstituted cyclohexyl. 6. The compounds 3 cyclohexyl 6 2 chlorophenyl 1,2 dihydro l or 2 methyl 1,2,4,5 tetrazine 3 2 iodophenyl 6 2 chlorophenyl 1,2 dihydro l or 2 methyl 1,2,4,5 tetrazine 3 2 iodophenyl 6 2 chlorophenyl 1,2,4 ,5 tetrazine 3 2 methylthiophenyl 6 2 chlorophenyl 1,2 dihydro l or 2 methyl 1,2,4,5 tetrazine 3 2,5 dichlorophenyl 6 2 chlorophenyl l,2 dihydro l or 2 methyl 1,2,4,5 tetrazine 3 2,5 dichlorophenyl 6 2 chlorophenyl l,2,4,5tetrazine 3 cyclohexylmethyl 6 2 chlorophenyl 1,2,4,5 tetrazine 3 cyclohexyl 6 2 bromophenyl 1,2 dihydro l or 2 methyl 1,2,4,5 tetrazine 3 cyclohexyl 6 2 bromophenyl 1,2,4, 5 tetrazine 3 cyclohexyl 6 2 fluorophenyl 1,2 dihydro 1 or 2 methyl 1,2,4,5 tetrazine 3 cyclohexyl 6 2 fluorophenyl 1,2,4, 5 tetrazine 3 1 methylcyclohexyl 6 2 chlorophenyl 1,2,4,5 tetrazine and 3 3 or 4 methyl 3 cyclohexen 1 yl 6 2 chloro phenyl 1,2,4,5 tetrazine. 7. 3 Cyclohexyl 6 2 chlorophenyl 1,2,4,5 tetrazine. 8. A pesticidal composition which comprises from 0.5 to 99 by weight of one or more compounds according to any of claims 1 to 7 in association with a suitable carrier and or surface active agent. 9. A method of combating acarids, their eggs or their larvae, which comprises applying to a site either infested or liable to infestation with them, an effective amount of one or more compounds according to any of claims 1 to 7. 10. A process for the preparation of a compound as claimed in claim 1 wherein a a compound of formula I wherein R1 and R2 represent other than a single bond is produced by reaching a substituted azine of the formula EMI31.1 wherein R3 and Hal are as defined in claim 1 and each X represents a leaving group is reacted with a hydrazine of the formula R1NH.NHR IV wherein R1 and R2 are as defined in claim 1 but do not together represent a bond or b a compound of formula I wherein R1 and R2 together represent a bond is produced by reacting a compound of formula I wherein at least one of R1 and R2 represents hydrogen with a suitable oxidising agent or c a compound of formula II is produced by reacting a thiadiazolium salt of the formula EMI32.1 wherein R1, R3 and Hal are as defined in claim 1, andX represents an anion with a hydrazine of formula R4NHNH2 wherein R4 is as defined in claim 1 to give the desired compound. 11. A compound of formula III, V, VI or VII as defined herein.

## Description
PESTICIDAL TETRAZINE DERIVATIVES AND CO8lPOSITIOTIS, PROCESSES FOR THEIR PREPARATION AND TtIEIR USE. This invention concerns certain tetrazines and dihydrotetrazines which are pesticidally active, particularly against acarids, their eggs and larvae, processes for their preparation, and compositions containing them. In one aspect, this invention provides the tetrazines and dihydrotetrazines of the formula EMI1.1 or of the formula EMI1.2 wherein R1, R2 and R4, which may be the same or different, each represent hydrogen, phenyl, alkyl of 1 to 6 carbon atoms, or alkenyl or alkynyl of 3 to 6 carbon atoms, each of which may be unsubstituted or substituted by one or more halogen atoms, hydroxy groups, cyano groupsr carboxy groups, alkoxycarbonyl groups of 2 to 5 carbon atoms or alkoxy groups of 1 to 4 carbon atoms or R1 and R2 together represent a single bond Hal represents fluorine, chlorine, bromine or iodine and R3 represents 2 iodophenyl, 2,5 dihalophenyl, 2 methylthiophenyl, cyclohexyl, cyclohexylalkyl, cyclohexenyl, cyclohexadienyl, l naphthyl, 2 naphthyl or biphenylyl, each of the cyclohexyl, cyclohexenyl, cyclohexadienyl, naphthyl or biphenylyl moieties of which may be unsubstituted or substituted by one or more alkyl, alkoxy or alkylthio groups of 1 to 6 carbon atoms, hydroxy, mercapto or cyano groups, halogen atoms, alkanoyloxy groups of 2 to 6 carbon atoms, amino or phenylamino groups, or alkylamino or dialkylamino groups, each alkyl moiety of which is of 1 to 6 carbon atoms. In another aspect, this invention provides a method of combating pests, especially acarids, their eggs or their larvaer which comprises applying to a site either infested or liable to infestation with them an effective amount of one or more substituted tetrazines or dihydrotetrazines of formula I and or formula II. In a further aspect, this invention provides a pesticidal composition which comprises one or more compounds of formula I or formula II as defined hereinbefore in association with a suitable carrier and or surface active agent. R1, R2 and R4 independently preferably represent hydrogen or alkyl of 1 to 6, especially 1 to 4, carbon atoms, which is preferably unsubstituted, for example methyl especially preferred , ethyl, n propyl, isopropyl or t butyl, or R1 and R2 together represent a single bond. When R1 or R2 represents hydrogen, the compounds of formula I are of course tautomeric with compounds of formula II. When R1 R2 or R4 When R1, R2 on R4 represents a substituted alkyl group, it may represent, for example, 2 chloroethyl, chloromethyl, cyanomethyl, carboxymethyl, methoxycarbonylmethyl or 2 methoxyethyl. Preferred alkenyl and alkynyl groups which R1, R2 and or R4 may represent are allyl and propargyl, which are preferably unsubstituted. When R1, R2 and or R4 represents phenyl, it is preferably unsubstituted. Hal preferably represents bromine or, especially, chlorine. When R3 represents 2,5 dihalophenyl, both halogen atoms are preferably the same, e.g. 2,5 dichlorophenyl or 2,5 dibromophenyl. When R3 represents cyclohexyl, it is preferably unsubstituted. When substituted, however, it is preferably substituted by one or more alkyl groups of 1 to 4, carbon atoms, e.g. methyl, ethyl, n propyl, isopropyl or t butyl groups. Specific mention may be made of the groups l methylcyclohexyl, 2 methylcyclohexyl, 3 methylcyclohexyl and 4 methylcyclohexyl. When R3 represents cyclohexylalkyl, the alkyl moiety is preferably of 1 to 4, carbon atoms, especially of 1 or 2, carbon atoms. Particularly preferred such groups are thus cyclohexylmethyl and cyclohexylethyl. The cyclohexylalkyl group is preferably unsubstituted.When substituted, however, it is preferably substituted by one or more alkyl groups of 1 to 4, carbon atoms, e.g.methyl, ethyl, n propyl, isopropyl or t butyl groups.Examples of such groups include 2 , 3 and 4 methylcyclohexylmethyl. When R3 represents cyclohexenyl, it may be a l cyclohexen l yl, a 2 cyclohexen l yl, or especially a 3 cyclohexen l yl group. It is preferably unsubstituted.When substituted, however, it is preferably substituted by one or more alkyl groups of 1 to 4, carbon atoms, e.g.methyl, ethyl, n propyl, isopropyl or t butyl groups.Examples of such groups include 3 methyl 3 cyclohexen yl and 4 methyl 3 cyclohexen l yl. When R3 represents cyclohexadienyl, it may be any appropriate such group. Specifically preferred are 2,5cyclohexadien l yl and 1,4 cyclohexadien l yl groups. The group is preferably unsubstituted. When substituted, however, it is preferably substituted by one or more alkyl groups of 1 to 4, carbon atoms, e.g. methyl, ethyl, n propyl, isopropyl or t butyl groups. Examples of such groups include 2 , 3 and 4 methyl 2,5 cyclohexadien l yl. When R3 represents a naphthyl group, it is preferably unsubstituted, and is desirably a l naphthyl group. When R3 represents a biphenylyl group, it is preferably unsubstituted, and is desirably a 2 biphenylyl group. The compounds of formula I or formula II wherein R3 represents 2 iodophenyl, 2,5 dihalophenyl, 2 methylthiophenyl or cyclohexyl substituted or unsubstituted represent an especially preferred group of compounds which exhibit particularly high activity, especially when, as preferred, R1 and R2 together represent a bond or one of R1, R2 and R4 represents methyl while the other represents hydrogen. The compounds of formula I or II wherein R3 represents unsubstituted cyclohexyl are especially preferred, particularly when R1 and R2 together represent a bond or one of R1, R2 and R4 represents methyl while the other represents hydrogen, and more particularly when Hal represents bromine or, especially, chlorine. These compounds possess sterilant activity on mite adults and also possess foliar systemic activity on plants. Particular mention may be made of the specifically preferred compound 3 cyclohexyl 6 2 chlorophenyl 1,2,4,5 tetrazine. In another aspect, this invention provides a process for the preparation of the compounds of formula I wherein R1 and R2 represent other than a single bond, in which process a substituted azine of the formula EMI6.1 wherein R3 and Hal are as defined hereinbefore and eachX represents a leaving group is reacted with a hydrazine of the formula R1NH NHR2 IV wherein R1 and R2 are as defined hereinbefore but do not together represent a bond to give the desired compound. The reaction is conveniently carried out at an ele vated temperature, e.g. from 300 to 100 0c, especially 50 to 80 C, in an appropriate solvent medium, e.g. an alkanol, e.g. ethanol, an ether, e.g. tetrahydrofuran, or a hydrocarbon. X preferably represents halogen especially chlorine or bromine , cyano, or C 1 to 4 alkoxy especially methoxy . The reaction of the compounds of formulae III and IV appears to give rise when R1 is not the same as R2 to a mixture of isomeric products. The present invention extends of course to cover the isomeric structures which may be produced. The substituted azines of formula III employed as starting materials in the above process may themselves be prepared by a process in which a compound of the formula EMI7.1 wherein R3 and Hal are as defined hereinbefore, and A represents CONH NHCO , CONH N CH , CH N NHCO or CH N N CH is halogenated to give the desired compound of formula III wherein X represents halogen, and the product is, if desired, reacted with an anion forming compound to give the corresponding compound where X represents a different leaving group. When A represents CONH NHCO , the halogenating agent is preferably a phosphorus pentahalide, especially phosphorus pentachloride or phosphorus pentabromide, and is preferably employed in a suitable solvent medium, for example a hydrocarbon or halogenated hydrocarbon, e.g.carbon tetrachloride or o dichlorobenzene. The reaction is conveniently effected at elevated temperature, e.g. from 70 150 , especially from 90 1100C. When A represents CONH N CH or CH N NHCO , the halogenation is desirably achieved in two stages by reaction of the compound of formula V with a thionyl halide, especially thionyl chloride, and with the halogen itself, especially chlorine. When A represents CH N N CH , the halogenation is conveniently achieved in a single step reaction with the desired halogen in an appropriate solvent medium, for example acetic acid. The compounds of formula V where A represents CONH NHCO may be prepared by a process in which a hydrazide of the formula R3 or R6 CONHNH2 is reacted with a compound of the formula R6 6r R3 COy, whereR3 is as defined hereinbefore, R6 represents 2 halophenyl, and Y represents halogen especially chlorine or bromine , hydroxy, C 1 to 6 alkoxy or a group R6 or R3 COO to give the desired compound. The reaction is preferably carried out in the presence of a base, e.g. an alkali metal hydroxide or carbonate, e.g. sodium hydroxide or carbonate, or an amine, e.g. triethylamine. The reaction is conveniently effected at a temperature of from 5 to 500C. The compounds of formula V where A represents CONH N CH or CH N NHCO may be prepared by reaction of a hydrazide of the formula R3CONHNH2 or R6CONHNH2 with an aldehyde respectively of the formula R6CHO or R3CHO. The hydrazides of formula R3 or R6 CONHNH2 employed as starting materials may be prepared by conventional processes, for example by reaction of hydrazine with one molar proportion of the appropriate acid or ester Razor 6R6 COOR where R represents hydrogen or alkyl, especially of 1 to 4 carbon atoms. The compounds of formula I wherein R1 and R2 together represent a single bond may be prepared from the corresponding compounds of formula I wherein at least one of R1 and R2 represents hydrogen by reaction thereof with a suitable oxidising agent. The preferred oxidising agent when R1 and R2 both represent hydrogen is an alkali metal nitrite, e.g. sodium nitrite, employed in the presence of an acid, and the reaction is desirably carried out in an appropriate solvent medium which is inert under the reaction conditions employed, e.g. glacial acetic acid. However, many other oxidising agents may be appropriate, particularly when one of R1 and R2 is other than hydrogen especially alkyl, e.g. methyl , for example air, permanganates e.g. potassium permanganate , chromium trioxide, dichromates e.g. sodium or potassium dichromate persulphates e.g. sodium persulphate , periodates e.g.sodium periodate , ceric ammonium nitrate, lead tetraacetate, hypochlorites e.g. sodium hypochlorite , chlorine, bromine, Caro s acid, chromyl chloride, ceric sulphate, sodium bismuthate, iodates e.g. potassium iodate and bromates e.g. potassium bromate . The conditions employed will in general be those normally employed for oxidation reaction using such reagents. Thus, for example, the solvents if any employed should be such that they are inert with respect to the reactants under the conditions employed. Suitable solvents for the oxidation reaction include glacial acetic acid, water, alkanols such as ethanol, and halogenated hydrocarbons, e.g. dichloromethane. The oxidation may be conveniently effected at a temperature of from 0 to 150 0C, preferably at a temperature of from 20 to 120 0C, except where the oxidising agent is an alkali metal nitrite, when the temperature employed is preferably 5 300C, especially 10 200C. In another aspect, this invention provides a process for the preparation of the compounds of formula II wherein a thiadiazolium salt of the formula EMI11.1 wherein R1, R3 and Hal are as defined hereinbefore and X represents an anion, is reacted with a hydrazine of formula R4NHNH2 wherein R4 is as defined hereinbefore to give the desired compound. The reaction is desirably effected in the presence of a solvent, e.g. an alkanol such as ethanol, and is preferably carried out at a temperature of from 20 0C to the reflux temperature, e.g. 1000C. X may represent any suitable anion, but is preferably halide, especially chloride, sulphate or p toluenesulphonate. The thiadiazolium salts of formula VI may themselves be prepared by a process in which a corresponding thiadiazole of the formula EMI11.2 wherein R3 and Hal are as defined hereinbefore is reacted with the appropriate compound of formula R1X to give the desired compound. The reaction may, if desired, be effected in an appropriate solvent medium, e.g. an aromatic hydrocarbon, e.g.toluene, or an alkanol such as ethanol, and at a temperature of from 60 C to the reflux temperature, e.g. 180 0C. The thiadiazoles of formula VII may themselves be prepared either by reaction of a compound of formula V wherein A represents CONH NHCO with phosphorus pentasulphide, or by reaction of a compound of formula III with a sulphide, for example sodium sulphide or phosphorus pentasulphide, especially the former, or a hydrosulphide to give the desired compound. The reaction involving phosphorus pentasulphide is desirably effected in an appropriate solvent medium, for example an aromatic hydrocarbon such as toluene. It may also be effected in the presence of a tertiary organic base. The base may act as the solvent medium, and may for example be pyridine, triethylamine or dimethylaniline.The reaction is desirably effected at a temperature of from 80 0C to the reflux temperature, e.g. 1200C. The sulphide or hydrosulphide employed in the reaction with the compound of formula III may alternatively be an alkali metal sulphide or hydrosulphide, e.g. sodium sulphide or potassium hydrosulphide, and the reaction is desirably effected in an appropriate solvent medium, e.g. an alkanol, e.g. ethanol, or a polar solvent, e.g.dimethylformamide, and at a temperature of from 5 C to the reflux temperature, e.g. 800C. The compounds of formula I and formula II are of general use as acaricides and or ovicides. They are of particular use against the eggs and larvae of acarids which attack plants, particularly the eggs of the red spider mite, Panonychus ulmi, but also against the eggs and larvae of other mite species, e.g. Tetranychus pacificus, Tetranychus urticae, Tetranychus cinnabarinus,Phyllocoptrata oleivora, Eutetranychus banski, Panonychus citri, Tetranychus MacDanieli, Tetranychus desertorum,Tetranychus turkestani, Tetranychus tumidus, andEotetranychus carpini. They also exhibit, however, activity against ticks and mites on animals, for example cattle tick Boophilus , sheep tick Ixodes , soft tick Rhipicephalus and poultry mites.In addition, they exhibit activity against aphids, particularly aphis fabae blackfly , megoura viciae vetch aphid , sitobion avenae grain aphid and myzus persicae peach potato aphid .Surprisingly, the compounds appear to be of useful low activity against predatory mites which feed on the mites which attack plants. The compounds are normally employed in the form of compositions. The compositions of the invention will normally be produced initially as formulations containing from 0.5 to 99 , preferably from 0.5 to 85 by weight, more usually from 10 to 50 by weight, of the active compounds, which are diluted if necessary before application to the locus to be treated such that the concentration of active ingredient in the formulation applied is from 0.05 to 5 by weight. The substituted tetrazines of formula I and formula II are generally water insoluble and may be formulated in any of the ways commonly adopted for insoluble compounds. For example, they may be dissolved in a water immiscible solvent, for example a high boiling hydrocarbon, as carrier, suitably containing dissolved emulsifying agents so that the composition acts as a self emulsifiable oil on addition to water. The substituted tetrazines may alternatively be admixed with a wetting agent with or without a solid carrier to form a wettable powder which is soluble or dispersible in water, or may be mixed with just a solid carrier to form a solid product. An aqueous suspension concentrate may alternatively be prepared by grinding the compounds with water, a wetting agent and a suspending agent. Solid carriers with which the substituted tetrazines may be incorporated include clays, sands, talc, mica or solid fertilizers, such products either comprising dust or larger particle size materials. The surface active agents used may comprise anionic surface active agents, for example mono or di esters of phosphoric acid with fatty alcohol ethoxylates or salts of such esters, fatty alcohol sulphates such as sodium dodecyl sulphate, ethoxylated fatty alcohol sulphates, ethoxylated alkylphenyl sulphates, lignin sulphonates, petroleum sulphonates, alkylaryl sulphonates such as alkyl benzene sulphonates or lower alkyl naphthalene sulphonates, salts of sulphonated naphthalene formaldehyde condensates, salts of sulphonated phenol formaldehyde condensates, or more complex sulphonates such as the amide sulphonates, e.g. the sulphonated condensation product of oleic acid and N methyl taurine or the dialkyl suipho succinates, e.g. the sodium sulphonate of dioctyl succinate. The surface active agents may also comprise non ionic agents, for example, condensation products of fatty acid esters, fatty alcohols, fatty acid amides or alkyl substituted phenols with ethylene oxide, fatty esters of polyhydric alcohol ethers, e.g. sorbitan fatty acid esters, condensation products of such esters with ethylene oxide, e.g. polyoxyethylene sorbitan fatty acid esters, block copolymers of ethylene oxide and propylene oxide, acetylenic glycols such as 2,4,7,9 tetramethyl 5 decyn 4,7 diol, or ethoxylated acetylenic glycols. The surface active agents may also comprise cat ironic agents, for example, alkyl and or aryl substituted quarternary ammonium compounds such as cetyl trimethylammonium bromide, or ethoxylated tertiary fatty amines. Preferred surface active agents include ethoxylated fatty alcohol sulphates, lignin sulphonates, alkyl aryl sulphonates, salts of sulphonated naphthalene formaldehyde condensates, salts of sulphonated phenol formaldehyde condensates, sodium oleoyl N methyltauride, dialkyl sulphosuccinates, alkyl phenol ethoxylates, and fatty alkyl ethoxylates. The pesticidal composition may be in the form of an aerosol composition, suitably using a cosolvent and a wetting agent, in addition to the propellant, which is suitably a polyhalogenated alkane such as dichlorodifluoromethane. The compositions according to the present invention may contain in addition to the substituted tetrazines other active insecticides, acaricides, ovicides, bactericides, fungicides or synergists. It has been found that particular advantages are obtained with mixtures with other acaricides, especially those which combat the motile stages, e.g. amitraz, azocyclotin, benzoximate, binapacryl, bromopropylate, calcium cyanamide, chlordimeform, chlorfenethol, chlorfenson, chlorobenzilate, chloromethiuron, chloropropylate, cyhexatin, dicofol, dienochlor, dinobuton, fenbutatin oxide, fenson, formetanate, propargite, tetradifon, tetranactin, or tetrasul, and particularly where the compound of formula I is 3 cyclo hexyl 6 2 chlorophenyl l,2,4,5 tetrazine. Synergists with which the present compounds may be admixed include piperonyl butoxide, piprotal, propyl isome and sesamin. Other pesticides with which the compounds may be admixed include the pyrethroids, e.g. pyrethrin I or II, cinerin I or II, jasmolin I or II, allethrin, barthrin, dimethrin, tetramethrin, resmethrin, bioresmethrin, decamethrin, alpermethrin, permethrin, fenvalerate or fluvalinate, and organophosphorus compounds such as dimethoate and malathion, carbamates such as bendiocarb, carbaryl and propoxur, and chlorinated compounds such asBHC, dicofol and tetradifon. The compounds may also be admixed with the pesticides fenazaflor, formetanate, chlordimeform, chlorobenzilate, quinomethionate, endosulfan, chlorodecone, chloropropylate, bromopropylate, thioquinox, dinocap, binapacryl, dinobuton, naled, monocrotophos, demeton, phorate, oxydemeton methyi, ethion, formothion, ethoate methyl, cyanthoate, EPN, carbophenothion, methidathion, chlorpyrifos, diazinon, azinphos ethyl, azinphos methyl, fenson, tetrasul, chlorbenside, chlorfensulphide, aldicarb, methomyl, methiocarb or benomyl. The method of combating pests, particularly acarids, their eggs or their larvae, provided by the present invention may be employed at any site where infestations of such pests are present or are liable to occur. Thus, they may be applied, for example, to plants or the soil. Plants which may be treated include food crops, for example, fruit trees and cereals, e.g. apples, pears, apricots, citrus fruits, maize, wheat or barley, beans, sugar beet, potatoes, carrots, or greenhouse crops, e.g.peppers, tomatoes, cucumbers, melons or strawberries, plantation crops, e.g. cotton or tobacco and ornamental crops. In their various applications the compounds of formula I and formula II may be used at various rates thus, for example, for the treatment of plants for the control of pests on plants the compounds are suitable applied at a rate of about 0.25 ss6 ounces per acre 17 1120g per hectare or at a concentration of 1 to 2000 ppm as appropriate, e.g. 100 to 1000 ppm, and preferably 0.5 4 ounces per acre 35 280g per hectare .Normally the compounds will be applied to the foliage of plants, but systemic activity has also been observed when applied to the soil around the base of the plants. The following Examples are given merely to illustrate the present invention. The temperatures given therein are in OC, and parts and percentages are by weight.Example 1 3 Cyclohexyl 6 2 chlorophenyl l,2 dihydro l or 2 methyl1,2,4,5 tetrazine a N Cyclohexylcarbonyl N 2 chlorobenzoyl hydrazine 2 Chlorobenzohydrazide 51.2g was added to sodium hydroxide 12g in water 250 ml and cyclohexanecarbonyl chloride 48g was added dropwise with stirring and cool ing in ice. The stirring was continued for 1 hour at room temperature and the formed solid was filtered off, washed with warm water and dried in vacuo to give 46.6g of desired product. b 2 Cyclohexyl 5 2 chlorophenyl l,3,4 thiadiazole The product of stage a 46.5g was dissolved in pyridine 230 ml , phosphorus pentasulphide 77.5g was added portionwise with stirring, and the mixture was refluxed for 48 hours and allowed to cool. The formed solid was filtered off, washed with water and acidified with hydrochloric acid with cooling in ice. The filtrate was evaporated down, diluted with water and more solid was filtered off. The product was recrystallised from isopropyl alcohol water to yield 21g. c 2 Cyclohexyl 5 2 chlorophenyl 3 or 4 methyl 1,3,4thiadiazolium methyl sulphate The product of stage b 21g and dimethyl sulphate 9.6g were heated on a steam bath for 2 hours and then at 150 0C for 2 hours. The melt was then cooled, triturated with ethyl acetate and extracted with acetone. The acetone was evaporated to dryness to give 21.2g of desired product. d 3 Cyclohexyl 6 2 chlorophenyl l,2 dihydro l or 2 methyl 1,2,4,5 tetrazine 3 or 4 Methy1 2 cyclohexyl 5 2 chlorophenyl 1,3,4 thiadiazolium methyl sulphate 21.2g was dissolved in ethanol 100 ml , hydrazine 5.5g was added, and the mixture was refluxed for 2 hours. It was then allowed to cool, the ethanol was evaporated off, and the residue was washed with water, taken up in ethyl acetate, washed with water, dried over magnesium sulphate and evaporated down to give 12.0g of desired product, mp 130 1320C.Example 2 3 Cyclohexyl 6 2 chlorophenyl 1,2,4,5 tetrazine The product of Example 1 12g was dissolved in acetic acid 70 ml , and the solution was added to potassium dichromate 13.4g in acetic acid 130 ml . The mixture was then heated on a steam bath for 1 hour, allowed to cool and poured into water 750 ml . The solid was then filtered off, washed with water and recrystallised from ethanol to give 4.5g of the desired product, mp 90 910C.Examples 3 17 By methods analogous to those of Examples 1 and 2, the following compounds were prepared 3. 3 2 Iodophenyl 6 2 chlorophenyl l or 2 methyl 1,2dihydro 1,2,4,5 tetrazine, mp 1530C.4. 3 2 Iodophenyl 6 2 chlorophenyl 1,2,4,5 tetrazine, mp 1450C.5. 3 2 methylthiophenyl 6 2 chlorophenyl l or 2 methyl 1,2 dihydro l,2,4,5 tetrazine, mp 1700C.6. 3 2,5 Dichlorophenyl 6 2 chlorophenyl l,2 dihydro l or 2 methyl 1,2,4,5 tetrazine, mp 166 1680C.7. 3 2,5 Dichlorophenyl 6 2 chlorophenyl l,2,4,5tetrazine, mp 180 1820C. 8. 3 Cyclohexylmethyl 6 2 chlorophenyl l,2,4,5 tetrazine,mp 660C.9. 3 Cyclohexyl 6 2 bromophenyl 1,2 dihydro l or 2 methyl 1,2,4,5 tetrazine, mp 108 0C. 10. 3 Cyclohexyl 6 2 bromophenyl 1,2,4,5 tetrazine, mp 89 910C. 11. 3 cyclohexyl 6 2 fluorophenyl l,2 dihydro l or 2 methyl 1,2,4,5 tetrazine, mp 940C. 12. 3 Cyclohexyl 6 2 fluorophenyl 1,2,4,5 tetrazine, mp 53 56 0C. 13. 3 l Methylcyclohexyl 6 2 chlorophenyl l,2,4,5 tetrazine, mp 690C.14. 3 1 Naphthyl 6 2 chlorophenyl 1,2 dihydro l or 2 methyl 1,2,4,5 tetrazine, brown oil.15. 3 l Naphthyl 6 2 chlorophenyl l,2,4,5 tetrazine, mp 142 C. 16. 3 2 Biphenylyl 6 2 chlorophenyl 1,2,4,5 tetrazine, mp 54 58 0C. Example 17 3 Cyclohexyl 6 2 chlorophenyl 1,2,4,5 tetrazine alternative route a N alpha 2 dichlorobenzylidene N chloro cyclohexyl methylene lhvdrazine N Cyclohexanoyl N 2 chlorobenzoyl hydrazine 28g , prepared as in Example l a suspended in carbon tetrachloride 100 ml was added over 10 minutes to a suspension of phosphorus pentachloride 46g in carbon tetrachloride 100 ml . The mixture was refluxed for 10 minutes and the carbon tetrachloride and phosphoryl chloride were removed in vacuo. The residue was treated with 60 80 petrol 150 ml and filtered. The petrol was then evaporated off in vacuo to give 29.7g of the desired product. b 3 Cyclohexyl 6 2 chlorophenyl l,2 dihydro l or 2 methyl 1,2,4,5 tetrazine Methyl hydrazine 18.4g and ethanol 200 ml were heated to reflux. Then the heating was stopped and the product of stage a 29.7g in ethanol 50 ml was added to maintain slow reflux. The mixture was then evaporated to low bulk and cooled in ice. Ice was added to the mixture slowly to give a solid which was filtered off, washed with water, then with 15 isopropyl alcohol water.Drying in vacuo gave 18.lg of desired product, mp 130 1320C. c 3 Cyclohexyl 6 2 chlorophenyl l,2,4,5 tetrazine The product of stage b was oxidised by the method ofExample 2 to give a product identical to that of Example 2.Example 18 3 3 or 4 Methyl 3 cyclohexen l yl 6 2 chlorophenyl 1,2,4,5 tetrazine a 3 or 4 Methyl 3 cyclohexenecarboxylic acid hydrazide 3 or 4 Methyl 3 cyclohexene carboxylic acid 56g was dissolved in a mixture of n butanol 30 ml and toluene 20 ml . Hydrazine hydrate 20 ml was then added, and the mixture was refluxed under a Dean and Stark apparatus until the theoretical quantity of water had been evolved.The mixture was then left to cool and crystallise to give 43.4g of the desired product. b l 2 Chlorobenzoyl 2 4 methylcyclohex 3 enoyl hydrazine Sodium hydroxide 8.8g was dissolved in water 300 ml and the hydrazide product of stage 2 30.8g was added. The suspension was stirred and cooled to 50C. Then o chlorobenzoyl chloride 38.3g was added dropwise. The mixture was stirred for 5 hours, the solid was filtered off and washed with water then with sodium bicarbonate solution. Drying yielded 57.2g of the desired product, mp 204 2080C. c N 2 dichlorobenzylidene N chloro 3 or 4 methyl3 cyclohexen l yl methylene hydrazine The product of stage b 28.2g was added portionwise to phosphorus pentachloride 42g in carbon tetrachloride 250 ml at reflux. The mixture was refluxed for 5 minutes and the carbon tetrachloride was evaporated off.Petrol was added to the residue and was filtered. The filtrate was evaporated to give an orange oil 30.lg of the desired product. d 3 3 or 4 Methyl 3 cyclohexen 1 yl 6 2 chlorophenyl l or 2 methyl 1,2 dihydrotetrazine The dichloroazine product of stage c 30.lg in ethanol 100 ml was added portionwise to methyl hydrazine 17.0g in ethanol 400 ml at reflux. The mixture was refluxed for 10 minutes, then the ethanol was evaporated off to low bulk. Ice was added to the residue to give an orange oil which was extracted into ether, then washed with water, dried over magnesium sulphate and evaporated to give 16.2g of the desired product as a yellow oil. e 3 3 or 4 Methyl 3 cyclohexen 1 yl 6 2 chloro phenyl 1,2,4,5 tetrazine The product of stage d 16.2g in acetic acid 120 ml was treated with potassium dichromate 15g . The product was chromatographed on silica gel and recrystallised from methanol to yield 0.6g of desired product, mp 98 1000C as a mixture of isomers.Example 19 Wettable powders were prepared with the following ingredients 1 2 Compound of Example 2 40 50 Reax 45L sodium lignosulphonate 5 8 Neosyl precipitated silica 10 China clay 45 40.6 Example 20 An emulsifiable concentrate was prepared with the following ingredients Compound of Example 2 100 g l Toximul D non ionic ionic blend of surfactants 25 g l Toximul H 75 g l Xylene to volumeExample 21 An aqueous suspension concentrate was prepared with the following ingredients Compound of Example 2 500 g l Polyfon H anionic defloculating agent 20 g l Pluronic P75 nonyl phenol ethylene oxide condensate surfactant 30 g l Antifoam RD silicone based antifoam agent 1.0 g l Kelzan xanthan gum suspending agent 1.0 g l Ethylene glycol 80 g l Formalin 1.1 ml l Deionised water 465 mlExample.A Aqueous acetone solutions containing 1000, 300, 100, 10, 3 and 0.3 ppm respectively of each of the compounds listed below together with 500 ppm of the wetting agentLissapol NX a nonylphenol ethylene oxide condensate were applied to 2 cm diameter discs cut from the leaves of french bean plants, Phaseolus vulgaris, each infested with 50 100 eggs of the greenhouse red spider mite, Tetanychus telarius. The treated leaf discs and mite eggs, together with controls treated with wetting agent alone were held at 25 0C for 5 days on moist filter paper. The percentage mortality of the mite eggs was then recorded, and theLC50 was determined and scored according to the following scale LC50 ppm Score 1000 0 300 1000 1 100 299 2 30 99 3 10 29 4 3 9.9 5 1 2.9 6 0.3 0.99 7 The results obtained were as follows Example No Score 1 6 2 7 4 6 8 6 10 7 16 6