# Container with label holding elements.

## Abstract
The invention relates to labeling a container. A con tainer 10 , for example a packaging for eggs, fruit or the like, has a lid portion 12 hinged to a base portion 11 . The lid 12 or hinge 13 has a flat internal surface 15 defining an area to which a label 23 is to be applied. For removably holding the label in position a plurality of projections 22 are disposed on the periphery of that area, which projections are moulded integrally with the container and extend in overlap ping, spaced relation with the area of the surface to which the label is to be applied.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A container 10 moulded from plastics material comprising a lid portion 12 hinged to a base portion 11 , the lid 12 or hinge 13 having a flat internal surface 15 defining an area to which a label 23 is to be applied, wherein for removably holding the label 23 in position a plurality of projections 22 are disposed on the periphery of said area, which projections 22 are moulded integrally with the container 10 and extend in overlapping, spaced relation with the area of said surface 15 to which the label 23 is to be applied. 2. A container as claimed in claim 1, wherein the container 10 , or at least said surface 15 to which a label 23 is to be applied, is formed of transparent material. 3. A container as claimed in claim 1 or claim 2, wherein the lid portion 12 is formed with at least one recess 20 31 , thy or each recess 20 31 having side walls surrounding a flat upper surface 15 32 to which a a label 23,33 is to be applied internally thereof, and wherein the projections 22 34 for holding the or each label 23 33 extend inwardly from the side walls of the respective recess 20 31 and lie parallel to the associated upper surface 15 32 . 4. A container as claimed in claim 1 or claim 2, wherein the hinge is a double hinge 13 having a flat web 42 interconnecting the lid portion 12 and the base portion 11 , and the label holding projections 44 are provided on the longitudinal edges of said web 5. A container as claimed in any one of the preceding claims, wherein the label holding projections are a series of pips 22 34 44 beneath which the edges of a label 23 33 43 may be tucked. 6. A container as claimed in any one of the preceding claims, wherein the container 10 is a packaging for eggs. 7. A container as claimed in any one of the preceding claims, having a label 23 33 43 applied to an internal surface lS 32 42 of the lid 12 or hinge 13 and being removably held in position by the projections 22 34 44 .

## Description
CONTAINERS This invention relates to containers. More particularly but not exclusively the invention relates to padkayings for eggs, fruit or the like. It is known to label an egg box by printing directly onto the material from which the egg box is formed. Another known system involves a labelling machine which applies a label to a desired suface of the egg box by adhesive. Neither of these systems provides the egg box with a label which is readily removable without tearing. According to the invention there is provided a container moulded from plastics material comprising a lid portion hinged to a base portion, the lid or hinge having a flat internal surface defining an area to which a label is to be applied, wherein for removably holding the label in position a plurality of projections are disposed on the periphery of said area, which projections are moulded integrally with the container and extend in overlapping, spaced relation with the area of said surface to which the label is to be applied. Preferably the container, or at least said surface to which a label is to be applied, is formed of transparent material. In one embodiment of the invention the lid portion is formed with at least one recess, the or each recess having side walls surrounding a flat upper surface to which a label is to be applied internally thereof, and the projections for holding the or each label extend inwardly from the side walls of the respective recess and lie parallel to the associated upper surface. In another embodiment of the invention the hinge is a double hinge having a flat web interconnecting the lid portion and the base portion,and the label holding projections are provided on the longitudinal edges of said web. Preferably the label holding projections are a series of pips beneath which the edges of a label may be tucked. The container is preferably a packaging for eggs, fruit or the like. The invention also provides a container as defined above having a label applied to an internal surface of the lid or hinge and being removably held in position by the projections. By way of example, specific embodiments in accordance with the invention will be described with reference to the accompanying diagrammatic drawings in which Figure 1 is a perspective view of an egg box with the lid open having a label applied internally of the lid, the label being partly cut away Figure 2 is an internal view of the lid of the egg box of Figure 1 Figure 3 is a section along line III III in Figure 2 Figure 4 is an internal view of the lid of another egg box having two labels applied internally of the lid and Figure 5 is a perspective view of a further egg box with the lid open having a label applied to the internal surface of a double hinge connecting the lid to the base of the egg box. Referring to Figures 1 to 3, a container 10 for packaging eggs comprises a one piece moulding of transparent, high impact polystyrene. The container has a base 11 and a lid 12 both of which are hinged to an intermediate web 13 constituing a double hinge.The base 11 has six egg receiving pockets 14 which are of conventional design, whilst the lid 12 has a single recess 20. The lid 12 has a flat upper surface 15 having an external peripheral rim 16 and, when the lid is closed, it is supported by posts 17 upstanding from the base 11.To releasably retain the lid in its fully closed position, there is provided a pair of interengaging pins 18 and sockets 19, the pins 18, in this embodiment, depending from the lid adjacent its edge which is opposite the lid hinge and the respective sockets 19 comprising upwardly open recesses in the base 11. The sides 21 of the recessed lid 12 have six pips 22 located adjacent the junctions of the sides 21 and the upper surface 15 of the lid. The pips are formed during the moulding of the egg box and extend inwardly of the lid and parallel to the upper surface 15 of the lid but spaced therefrom. The pips 22 thus define six slots for receiving the edges of the label 23 to be applied to the inner face of the upper surface 15 of the lid, and for removably holding the label in position. The label is thereby viewed through the upper surface 15 of the lid. It will be appreciated that in order that the label may be viewed from outside the egg box, it is sufficient for the lid rather than the whole egg box, or if desired only the upper surface 15 of the lid,. to be formed of transparent materal. Alternatively, this feature of the egg box described above may not be.required, in which case the egg box may be formed wholly of opague material, for example, foamed polystyrene. The label will then be seen only when the lid is opened. The embodiment of Figure 4 concerns an egg box similar to the one shown in Figures 1 to 3 except that the lid 30 has six egg receiving recesses 31 corresponding to the recesses in the base, instead of a single recess.Each set of three recesses 31 are joined to form a trough 35 extending longitudinally of the egg box, the trough having a flat base 32. In this embodiment two labels 33 are applied internally of the lid, one in each trough.Each label 33 is held in position within its own trough 35, in like manner to the label 23 of the embodiment of Figures 1 to 3, by four pips 34 moulded in pairs on opposite sides of the trough. Figure 5 shows a further embodiment of egg box in which the lid 40 is again connected to the base 41 by a web 42 constituting a double hinge, but in this embodiment a label 43 is applied to the inner face of the web 42 instead of internally of the lid. As in each of the other embodiments, the label 43 is held in position by a series of pips 44 which in this case are three pips integrally moulded along each longitudinal edge of the web. It will be appreciated that the label retaining pips 44 comprise projections which are additional to any others which may be provided due to the construction of the web 42 as a double hinge. Each of the embodiments of Figures 4 and 5, like the embodiment of Figures 1 to 3, may be moulded wholly or partly of transparent material or wholly of opaque material. An advantage of each embodiment of egg box described above is that the label may be manually applied to the egg box. The label is also readily removable from the egg box since it is applied to the egg box without the use of adhesive. This feature is another advantage if it is desired that the label should form a receipt of purchase to enable the purchaser to obtain a further item. Each of the specific embodiments shown in the drawings allows a removable label to he inserted into an empty carton prior to a conventional filling operation, the label being held positively in position within the lid or adjacent the web throughout the filling operation. Such a procedure is advantageous when compared with the usual step of weeding a label into each carton in a random fashion at some stage during the filling of the carton, the label remaining loose within the carton. The invention is not restricted to the specific details of the embodiments described above. For example, the container may be a carton or box for packaging other articles besides eggs, for example fruit.