# Pharmaceutical compositions for the treatment of neoplastic diseases and process therefor.

## Abstract
A pharmaceutical composition for the treatment of neo plastic diseases containing 2 amino 2 thiazoline or a physiologically acceptable salt thereof. The 2 amino 2 thiazoline or a physiologically acceptable salt thereof can be contained in an injection solution in lyophil ized form. The composition may be in solid or powder form and contain the 2 amino 2 thiazoline or a physiologically acceptable salt thereof in lyophilized form.

## Claims
ClAIMS 1. A pharmaceutical composition for the treatment of neoplastic diseases containing 2 amino 2 thiazoline or a physiologically acceptable salt thereof. 2. An injection solution for the treatment of neoplastic diseases containing 2 amino 2 thiazoline or a physiologically acceptable salt thereof. 3. An injection solution as claimed in claim 2 prepared from 2 amino 2 thiazoline or a salt thereof in lyophilized form. 11. A solid pharmaceutical composition containing 2 amino 2 thiazoline or a physiologically acceptable salt thereof in lyophilized form. 5. A lyophilized powder of 2 amino 2 thiazoline or a physiologically acceptable salt thereof. 6. The use of 2 amino 2 thiazoline and physiologically acceptable salts thereof in the treatment of neoplastic diseases. 7. The use of 2 amino 2 thiazoline and physiologically acceptable salts thereof in the treatment of cancer, particularly of bladder cancer. 8. A method of treatment neoplastic diseases in mammals which method is characterized by t he administration of 2 amino 2 thiazoline or a physiologically acceptable salt thereof to the being afflicted with the diseases. 9. A method as claimed in claim 8, characterized in that cancer is treated. 10. A method as claimed in claim 9, characterized in that bladder cancer is treated. 11. A method as claimed in claim 9 or claim 10, characterized in that the compound is administered parenterally, preferably intramuscularly. 12. A method as claimed in claim, characterized in that there is administered an injection solution prepared from 2 amino 2 thiazoline or a physiologically acceptable salt thereof in lyophilized form.

## Description
Pharraceutical Comoositions for the Treatment of NeoDlastic Diseases and Process therefor This invention relates to cheinotherapeutic agents for the treatment of malignant tumors or other cancerous conditions. The volume of research directed towards understan ding the causes and finding a cure for cancer has greatly increased in the last ten years as a result of increased public concern with the disease. An outgrowth of this research has been the discovery and utilization of a large nunber of anti cancer drugs. A common feature of these new drugs is their cytotoxic activity, ire., they act by killing the cell. The use of cytotoxic drugs has been a typical first step in the chemotherapeutic treatment of diseases caused by an aggressive cell. This was the case, for example, in the early treatment of tuberculosis, a disease which has now been largely conquered but which was once as dreaded as cancer is today. As indicated above, cytotoxic agents act by killing cells. Unfortunately, they are not selective and attack healthy or normal cells as well as foreign or diseased ones. Nevertheless, using such agents, skilled specialists were able to add 10 15 years to the life expectancy of persons afflicted with tuberculosis. However, a price had to be paid as the patient suffered terribly from the treatments with these toxic agents. For example, vomiting, hair loss, loss of teeth and other effects had to be endured. In view of the great shortcomings associated with the use of cytotoxic agents, it could not be said that tubercul osis was curable until non cytotoxic antibiotic drugs capable of selectively attacking the tubercu los is bacillus became available. Such drugs could be readily used by even general practitioners in relatively simple schemes of treatment. As a result, tuberculosis today has largely been eliminated. The chemotherapy of cancer is presently limited to cytotoxic drugs that kill. normal cells even as they attack the tumor cells. For certain kinds of cancer, skilled speciaiists using these agents, typically in combinations, have been able to maintain patients relatively free from disease for periods of ten to fifteen years. However, the patient undergoing treatment with these drugs has had to endure great suffering because the cytotoxic agents are severely toxic. Furthernore, the complexity of the treatments preclude their successful use by all but the most highly skilled physicians having access to the best medical facilities. Obviously, many of those who are afflicted with cancer, particularly in underdeveloped countries, do not have access to this kind of treatment.As a result, no one is yet prepared to characterize the limited success achieved using these drugs representing a cure for the cancer involved. That must await the availability of non toxic drugs that can be readily employed by any physician. In addition to leading to the discovery of additional cytotoxic agents to be added to the chemical arsenal of anti cancer drugs, the increased research of recent years has lead to discoveries which are laying the groundwork for a fundamental understanding of the nature of cancer.Out of that research has emerged the concept that the main biological and biochemical differences between a cancer cell and a normal cell are found in the plasma membrane and the cytoskeletal system of. contractile microfilaments which connect the plasma membrane with the cell nucleus. It has been postulated that the process by which a normal cell is transformed by a virus or chemical carcinogen to a tumor cell involves a disorganization of the cyboskeletal system of contractile filaments. Another discovery has been that cancerous cells lack the property of contact inhibition that is exhibited by normal cells. Contact inhibition is the property of normal cells when in contact that is manifest by the cessation of cell movement, cell growth and cell division.Because they lack this property, cancer cells when in contact continue to grow and divide. As a result, the cancer cells are highly invasive of adjacent normal tissue. Furthermore, the lack of contact inhibition can result in metastasis, the occurrence of secondary tumors at other body locations caused by tumor cells released into the blood stream. An important recent discovery has been the observation that tumor cells can be caused to undergo a reverse transformation in which the cells take on a morphology akin to that of normal cells in that the cytoskeletal system of contractile filaments in the cells is reorganized and the property of contact inhibition is restored by treatment with dibutyryl cyclic AMP adenosine monophosphate . Cyclic AMP is an agent that naturally occurs in low concentration in cells. However, it serves many cellular functions and, therefore, cannot be administered to huans in a dosage sufficient to restore contact inhibition in cancer cells. This observation has spurred the hope that a specific agent can be found which will induce reverse transformation in cancer cells and restore contact inhibition.Such an agent would be expected to arrest tumor growth and perhaps lead to a slow regression of the tumor by gradual repiacement of the tumorous cells with healthy ones. In view of the state of the art summarized above, one object of the present invention is to provide pharmaceutical compositions for the treatment of cancer in mammals, and particularly for the treatment of cancer in humans. In accordance with the present invention a dosage of 2 amino 2 thiazoline or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof to an afflicted subject, e.g., a mammal having a maliant tumor or other cancerous condition, in an amount effective to arrest or retard the growth of the tumor, causes reverse transformation of the tumor cells and or restores the property of contact inhibition.The administration of the drugs may be oral or parenteral, e.g. intramuscular or intravenous. 2 Amino 2 thiazoline is a known compound that has been described in the literature to be pharmaceutically active. However, up to now it was unknown that 2 amino2 thiazoline and physiologically acceptable salts thereof are useful in the chemotherapy of neoplastic diseases and malignant tumors of the kind that afflict humans and other mammals, particularly in the cure of human cancerA preferred species of cancer to be treated in accordance with the present invention is bladder cancer. Any salt of 2 amino 2 thiazoline with an organic or inorganic acid that is pharinaceutically acceptable in an effective amount may be used and the free base can also be used if it is free of polymers. In that regard, the salts of 2 amino2 thiazoline which are most useful in this invention are the salts with hydrohalic acids, especially the hydrochloride. In a specific embodiment of this invention the active agents are used as a lyophilized powder that is readily soluble in aqueous media and, therefore, well suited for formulations for oral or parenteral administration. To conveniently obtain a salt as a lyophilized powder, an aqueous solution of 2 amino 2 thiazoline is neu tralized to a pH of about 7 with a suitable acid. The neutralization may be conducted in the presence of mannitol, lactose, glycine, or other suitable supports for lyophilization. The neutralization should be effected as quickly as possible and the solution should be protected from light during the process After filtration, the solution is frozen and lyophilized using conventional freeze drying techniques. The resulting dry powder can be reconstituted with water for parenteral injection or used in the preparation of pills for oral administration.On the other hand the pure free base can be obtained from the salts in accordance with known methods, e.g. by reaction with an equivalent amount of a strong base. Tests on mice, rats and dogs have shown 2 amino 2thiazoline and 2 amino 2 thiazoline hydrochloride to be completely non toxic in doses up to 100 mg kg of body weight. 2 amino 2 thiazoline and 2 amino 2 thiazoline hydrochloride are also non toxic to humans in doses up to at least 100 mg kg. Therefore, the dosage administered can vary over a wide range, without concern that undesirable side effects will result from large dosages. An effective dosage in the process of the present invention may vary, for example, with the kind of malignancy involved. Typically, a dosage of from about 1 50 mg kg of body weight is administered daily for a sufficient time to arrest or retard the growth of the tumor1 to induce reverse transformation in malignant tumor cells and to restore the property of contact inhibition to those cells.Preferably, the d aily dosage rate will be in the range of from about 5 20 mg kg of body weight. While daily administration is preferred, it will be understood that other treatment schedules on other than a daily basis may be suitable in specific situations.As already indicated, 2 amino 2 thiazoline or its salts can be administered orally, preferably in pill form, or intramuscularly or intravenously, by injection of an aqueous solution. A suitable concentration of the injection solu tions is 1 100 ml kg, preferably 25 50 mg ml. The efficacy of 2 amino 2 thiajoline hydrochloride and its salts as non cytotoxic agents for treating malignancies, is shown by the following experiments. EXPERIMENTAL RESULTSRestoration of Contact Inhibition in Colonies of HelaCells using 2 Amino 2 thi2zoline Hela cells, a type of cell derived from human uterine tumor, were seeded in beagle culture flasks at the concentration of 50 cellsScm2. The cells were allowed to develop colonies during a period of 10 days with two changes of the medium on the second and sixth day. A tissue culture minimum essential medium of Eagle with 10 calf serum comprising amino acids, vitamins and glucose was employed. 2 Amino 2 thiazoline, obtained by treatment of the hydrochloride with a molar equivalent of sodium hydroxide, was added to the medium at varying concentrations on both the second day and the sixth day, after the ini tiation of the culture. A total of 3 flasks containing the cultured colonies were used for each concentration of 2 amino 2 thiazoline employed. On the tenth day, the cells were fixed in neutral formol and were stained with hematoxyline. A total of 500 colonies of the same size in each flask were counted at random and the percentage of colonies with contact inhibition planar morphology or without contact inhibition pyrimidal or acuminated morphology were noted. The results of these experiments are shown in Table I.As can be seen from that table, in those cultures which developed in the absence of the compound, about 50d of the colonies developed without contact inhibition. Those cultures treated with 2 amino2 thiazoline showed an increased amount of colonies with contact inhibition. At the maximum dosage, 100 of the colonies showed contact inhibition. This experiment demonstrates that 2 amino 2 thiazoline is able to restore contact inhibition in human tumor cells.Effect of 2 Amino 2 thiazoline Hydrochloride on Tumors in Humans Clinical trials with 2 amino 2 thiazoline hydrochloride have been conducted on 9 patients suffering from advanced metastastic bladder cancer, not amenable to any other treatment. The results of these trials are shown in Table II. Only patients with measurable and progressing bladder tumors and lung metastases the growth rate of which was measured weekly in X ray plates for serveral wees before beginning the treatment were admitted to the trial. The development of the bladder tumors was measured by cytoscopy after biopsy. TABLE I 2 Amino 2 thiazoline Colonies with Colonies without Total number of Mol contact inhibition contact inhibition colonies 0 58 42 100 1 42 100 2 59 41 100 5 75 25 85 10 86 14 75 20 100 0 45 TABLE II Clinical Study of the Effect of 2 Amino 2 thiazoline.HCl in Advanced CancerDiagnosis Measurable Total dose Toxicity Response lesion received bladder carcinoma lung and bladder 2.5 gr none complete remission bladder carcinoma lung and bladder 3.2 gr none partial remission bladder carcinoma lung and bladder 2.8 gr none complete remission bladder carcinoma bladder 3.7 gr none stabilization bladder carcinoma lung and bladder 4.9 gr none stabilization bladder carcinoma bladder 12 gr none complete remission bladder carcinoma lung and bladder 9.6 gr none complete remission bladder carcinoma lung and bladder 11.8 gr none stabilization bladder carcinoma lung and bladder 10.8 gr none stabilization This kind of patient was selected in order to determine whether administration of 2 amino 2 thiazoline would cause an arrest of tunor or a slow down in the rate of growth with eventual regression of tumor size. It was anticipated that tunor reduction, if it occurred, would be at a very slow rate since 2 amino 2 thiazoline is not cytotoxic. Instead, reduction in tumor size would occur by the replacement of tumor cells by normal cells. Each of the patients were intravenously administered 2 amino 2 thiazoline hydrochloride, as an aqueous solution 25 75 mg ml at the dose of 1.5 mg kg of body weight on a daily basis per 5 days, every three weeks the first 5 patients , and at at dose of 3 mg kg daily per 5 days every three weeks the following 4 patients . Table II shows the total dose of 2 amino 2 thiazo line hydrochloride received by each of the patients at the time the evaluation was made. None of the patients showed any toxicity and there were 4 objective responses mor than 50 reduction of tumor size out of the 9 cases as evaluated by the estimation of the combined area of lung metastasis and by the size of the cystoscopic lesion. The results of this study established that 2 amino2 thiazoline has anti tumor activity and, therefore, is effective as a non cytotoxic chemotherapeutic agent for the treatment of cancer.Effect of 2 Amino 2 Thiazoline in Mouse Tumors The effect of 2 amino 2 thiazoline on mouse tumors leukemia 1210 and Lewis Lung carcinoma was also tested. In these tests it was found that the drug was com pletely inactive in increasing the survival time of the mice inoculated with such tumors. However, it is knwon that the cells associated with those tumors are extremely undifferentiated from normal cells so as to have lost all or nearly all of the cytoskeletal system of contractile microfilaments. Such cells would be expected to be insensitive to agents which induce reverse transformation. Leukemia 1210 and Lewis Lung carcinoma are transplantable tumors and, upon transplantation, they have lost the tissue specific membrane receptors which are the target of 2 amino 2 thiazoline. While in the foregoing experiments, 2 amino 2 thiazoline was used alone, it is within the scope of this invention to employ 2 amino 2 thiazoline or a physiologically acceptable salt thereof as part of a broader scheme of treatment for cancer in combination with one or more cytotoxic agents such as cis platinum, 5 fluorouracil or methotrexate. The preceding description is but illustrative of the practice of the invention and it is to be understood that other expedients may be employed by those skilled in the art without departure from the scope of the invention. Data on human tumors have been provided for bladder cancer because in a preliminary study of the biochemical affinity of 2 amino 2 thiazoline with tumor membrane receptors, the affinity with the bladder tumor receptor was very high. However, 2 amino 2 thiazoline has also shown affinity for other tumor receptors of different tissue origin and in a preliminary clinical trial, stabilizaticn and minor remissions in tumors of various origins, are being shown. Therefore, it is claimed that 2 amino 2 thiazoline is an anti tumour agent for mammalian cancer acting without toxicity by inducing reverse transformation. Example 1 1 kg of 2 amino 2 thiazoline hydrochloride is dissol ved in 40 liters of water. Then, with continuous agitation and pH monitoring, 3,2 kg of mannitol and sufficient NaOH to bring the solution to pH 6 is added. The solution is filtered through a 0,2 p steril filter, aseptically subdivided into vials 5 ml each , rapidly frozen at 40 C and lyophilized. Example 2 Tablets for oral administration containing 2 Amino 2 thiazoline lyophilized 250 mg Mannitol 300 mg Conventional carrier materials 450 m 1000 mg Example 3 1 kg of 2 amino 2 thiazoline is dissolved in 40 liters of water. To the solution aqueous hydrochloric acid is added under continuous stirring and pH monitoring until the pH is about 7. The solution is filtered, subdivided into 5 ml vials under steril conditions, frozen rapidly and lyophilized. Example 4 Tablets for oral administration containing 2 Amino 2 thiazoline hydrochloride lyophilized 250 mg Mannitol 350 mg Conventional carrier materials 400 mg 1000 tug