# Process for the preparation of a therapeutically active substituted phenoxyacetic acid and a novel acid anhydride for use therein.

## Abstract
Tienilic acid, 2,3 dichloro 4 2 thienyl carbonyl phenoxy acetic acid, is advantageously made by reacting 2,3 dichloro 4 2 thienylcarbonyl phenol with chloroacetic acid anhydride and hydrolysing the novel anhydride, viz. 2,3 dichloro 4 2 thienylcarbonyl phenoxy acetic acid anhydride, so produced.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A process for the preparation of 2,3 dichloro 4 2 thienylcarbonyl phenoxy acetic acid of the formula EMI5.1 which comprises reacting 2 ,3 dichloro 4 2 thienyl carbonyl phenol with chloroacetic acid anhydride to give 2, 3 dichloro 4 2 thienylcarbonyl phenoxy acetic acid anhydride of the formula EMI5.2 and then hydrolysing the latter to give the compound of formula I. 2. A process according to Claim 1, in which the reaction of the said phenol with the chloroacetic acid anhydride is carried out in an aromatic or aliphatic hydrocarbon, ketone or ester, a halogenated hydrocarbon, an organic amide or a sulfoxide. 3. A process according to Claim 1 or 2, in which the said phenol is reacted with chloroacetic acid anhydride in the presence of an alkaline condensation agent. 4. A process according to Claim 3, in which the alkaline condensation agent is sodium carbonate or potassium carbonate. 5. A process according to Claim 3 or 4, in which the said alkaline condensation agent is used in admixture with a quaternary ammonium salt. 6. A process according to Claim 6, in which the said quaternary ammonium salt is trioctylmethylammonium chloride. 7. 2,3 Dichloro 4 2 thienylcarbonyl phenoxygacetic acid anhydride of the formula EMI6.1 8. Process for the preparation of 2,3 dichloro 4 2 thienylcarbonyl phenoxy acetic acid anhydride which comprises reacting 2,3 dichloro 4 2 thienylcarbonyl phenol with chloroacetic acid anhydride. 9. Process for the preparation of 2,3 dichloro 4 2 thienylcarbonyl phenoxyjacetic acid which comprises hydrolysing 2, 3 dichloro 4 2 thienyl carbonyl phenoxygacetic acid anhydride.

## Description
DESCRIPTION PROCESS FOR THE PREPARATION OF A THERAPEUTICALLY ACTIVE SUBSTITUTED PHENOXYACETIC ACID AND A NOVEL ACID ANHYDRIDE FOR USE THEREIN This invention relates to the preparation of 2,3 dichloro 4 2 thienylcarbonyl phenoxy acetic acid or tienilic acid of the formula EMI1.1 Tienilic acid is a known diuretic agent. The preparation of tienilic acid has been described in e.g. the French Patents Nos. 2,068,403 and 2,115,042. According to French Patent No. 2,068,403 tienilic acid is prepared from the ketone of formula EMI1.2 which is reacted in ethanolic solution with sodium methylate and chloroacetic acid ethyl ester, after which the tienilic acid ethyl ester formed is isolated and hydrolysed to give tienilic acid. The total yield is 68.7 per cent. In the process of French Patent No. 2,115,042 the sodium salt of the ketone of formula II is reacted with the sodium salt of chloroacetic acid in aqueous solution. The yield of tienilic acid is 60 per cent. It has now surprisingly been discovered that tienilic acid can be produced in a yield of 90 95 per cent if tienilic acid anhydride is made as an intermediate. The process of the present invention therefore comprises reacting 2,3 dichloro 4 2 thienylcarbonyl phenol of formula II with chloroacetic acid anhydride in the presence of an alkaline condensation agent to give tienilic acid anhydride of formula III below, which is then hydrolysed to tienilic acid. The reaction can be represented by the following formulae EMI2.1 Tienilic acid anhydride is a new chemical compound. It is preferably prepared from the ketone of formula II and chloroacetic acid anhydride by refluxing in a suitable organic solvent, which may be for example, an aromatic or aliphatic hydrocarbon, a ketone, an ester, a halogenated hydrocarbon, an organic amide or a sulfoxide.The alkaline condensation agent used may be, e.g., sodium or potassium carbonate. The addition of a quaternary ammonium salt together with the alkali carbonate has proved to be especially favourable. A suitable ammonium salt is, e.g., Aliquat 336 trioctylmethylammonium chloride . The addition of the ammonium salt accelerates the reaction considerably and increases the yield. When the desired product is tienilic acid itself, it is not necessary to isolate the intermediate anhydride of formula III. The hydrolysis can be performed in the same solution as the condensation by conventional methods, for instance by adding sodium hydroxide solution and reflexing. By extraction of the cooled solution with a suitable solvent, e.g., hot toluene, and cooling the extract, pure tienilic acid is obtained. In comparison with the known methods the process of the present invention gives much higher yields. Chloroacetic acid anhydride is a solid, almost odourless,reagent, which is easy to handle. The alkali metal carbonates and the ammonium salts are likewise easily handled. As the reaction, including the purification, can be performed in the same reaction vessel, the process of the invention is also simpler to perform than the known processes. It is thus economical and easily realizable on a technical scale. The invention is illustrated by the followingExamples Example 1 10 g of 2,3 dichloro 4 2 thienylcarbonyl phenyl, 4.0 g of chloroacetic acid anhydride, 50 ml of toluene, 8.0 g of sodium carbonate and 4.0 ml of dimethylsulfoxide are reflexed for 14 hours. The mixture is then cooled, 50 ml of water and 5 ml of 48 per cent sodium hydroxide solution are added, and refluxing is continued for a further 2 hours. The phases are separated and the toluene layer washed with water 20 ml . The combined aqueous layers are acidified with hydrochloric acid to pH 2 3 , and the product is extracted with hot toluene. The toluene solution is cooled and the product is filtered off. 11.0 g 90.0 of almost white tienilic acid, m.p 150153 C., are obtained. Example 2 10 g of 2,3 dichloro 4 2 thienylcarbonyl phenol, 4.0 g of chloroacetic acid anhydride, 50 ml of toluene, 4.0 ml of dimethylsulfoxide, 0.5 g of Aliquat 336 and 8.0 g sodium carbonate are ref fluxed for 2 hours. The reaction is then continued as described in Example 1. The yield is 11.5 g 95.0 per cent of white tienilic acid, m.p. 150,5 1530C. Example 3 10 g of 2,3 dichloro 4 2 thienylcarbonyl phenol, 4.0 g of chloroacetic acid anhydride, 40 ml of acetone and 5.0 g of potassium carbonate are refluxed for 24 hours. 50 ml of water and 5 ml of 48 per cent sodium hydroxide solution is added and the mixture is refluxed for 2 hours. The solution is cooled, the acetone is distilled off, and the solution is then washed with toluene. The aqueous layer is acidified with hydrochloric acid and the product is extracted with hot toluene. The toluene solution is cooled and the precipitate is filtered off. The yield of white tienilic acid, m.p. 150 153 0C., is 8 g 66 per cent .