# Combination lock.

## Abstract
A combination lock, particularly a domestic door lock, comprises a rotable and axially movable plunger 14 , a plurality of axially displaceable pins 17, 17a disposed around the plunger 14 , a rotary ward disc carried by the plunger slots 19, 20, 21 in the pins 17, 17a to allow rotary movement of the plunger 14 only when selected ones of the pins 17a are axially displaced relative to the remainder of the pins 17 , to have slots 19 therein aligned with the ward disc 18 , and a member 23, 24 carried by the plunger 14 and capable of moving the pins 17, 17a to an aligned position upon axial movement of the plunger 14 . A user can move said selected pins 17a to render the plunger 14 turnable to open the door and then easily pull or push the plunger to cause said member 23, 24 to re align the pins 17, 17a to prevent the selected pins 17a remaining depressed and the combination visible.

## Claims
CLAI S 1. A combination lock comprising a rotatable and axially movable plunger 14 , a plurality of axially displaceable pins 17, 17a around the plunger 14 , a rotary ward disc 18 carried by the plunger 14 and co operating with said pins 17, 17a to allow rotary movement of the plunger 14 only when selected ones of the pins 17a are axially displaced relative to the remainder of the pins 17 , and a member 23 or 24 carried b the plunger 14 and capable of moving the pins 17, 17a, to an aligned position upon axial movement of the plunger 14 . 2. A lock as claimed in claim 1 characterised in that it comprises a cylindrical barrel 11 closed at one end by front plate 12 , centrally of which a spigot 13 surrounds te outer end of the plunger 14 which terninates ill a handle 15 . 3. A loci as claimed in claim 2 wherein a number of equally spaced bore holes 16 in the Iront plate 12j around the spigot 13 allow the iieads of tile salie number of ins 17, 17a to project therefrom. 4, A lock as clained in claim 2 in whic the ward disc 18, is carried by the plunger 14 inside tne barrel 11 and selected ones of the pins 17a , have slots 19 which align with the ward disc 18j when those selected pins 17a are displaced relative to the other ins 17 . 5. A lock as clairied in claii 4, wherein each in 17, 17a also iias a slot 21 in its outer side in a corresponding position to the aligned slots 19, 20 . 6. A lock as claimed in claim 5 in which each pin has a centrally enlarged portion 22 , with inner and outer shoulders 29, 30 at respective ends, in which central enlarged portion said slots 19, 20, 21 are formed. 7. A lock as claimed in claim 6 in which a first said member 23, 24 is in the for of a scrambling plate 23 carried by the plunger 14 and can engage the outer shoulder 30 of the centrally enlarged portions 22 of pins 17, 17a and a second said member 23, 24 is in te form of a scratnbling plate 24 whici can engage the inner shoulders 30 of the said enlarged portions 22 of the pin 17, 17a . 8. A lock as claimed in claim 7 and wherein each pin 17, 17a has a rear portion 26 thereof shaped to engage a re setting member 28 relative to which it is normally axially slidable but not rotatable. 9. A lock as claimed in claim 8, wherein the re setting member is displaceable to allow each pin 17, 17a to be rotated through 180 t enable it to be included in or excluded from said selected plurality at the will of the user. 10. A lock as claimed in claim 9, wherein each pin 17, 17a has a rectangular rear end portion 26j engaged in a slot 27 in a re setting member in the form of a plate 28 , the plate 28 being displaceable against the action of a spring 30 to disengage said rectangular ed portions 26 or re settin. 11. lock as claimed in claim 9, wherein the re setting ember is in the or of a plug 34 having a cylindrical outer surface and detachably secured to the barrel 11 of the lock, each pin 17, 17a aving two complementarily curved convex surfaces 37 at its rear end spaced 1800 apart, enabling one or the other to be disposed adjacent the plug 34 . 12. A lock as claimed in claim 11, wherein a resilient ring 36 is located in an annular grooge 41 in the plug 34 . 13. A lock as claimed in clainn 12, wherein a second resilient ring 38 surrounds the rear end portions 26 of the pins 17, 17a .

## Description
DESCRIPTION This invention relates to a combination lock, for example or use as a .ront door lock, or for any other purpose wherein a rotary unlocking and locking notion is desired. Accordingly the invention provides a combination lock comprising a rotatable and axially movable plunger, a plurality of axially displaceable pins around the plunger, a rotary r disc carried by te plunger and cooperating wit said pins to allow rotary ovement of the plunger only when selected ones of the pins are axially displaced relative to tile re ainder, and a member carried by the plunger and capable of moving the pins to an aligned position upon axial movement of the plunger. Preferably the lock comprises a cylindrical barrel closed at one end by a front plate, centrally of which a spigot surrounds the outer end of a plunger terminating in a handle and around the spigot a number of equally spaced bore holes allow tie heads of the sate number of pins to project therefrom. ward disc may be carried by the plunger inside tile housing and selected ones of the pins may have slots which are aligned with the ward disc when tJey are displaced. Bach pin may also have a slot in its outer side in te corresponding position. Advantageously each pin has a central enlarged portion in which both said slots are formed. An outer setting plate carried by the plunger may engage the outer siloulders and an inner resetting plate may engage tile inner shoulders. The end of each pin remote from its head can be prevented from rotation by engagement with a resetting member, tbis member preferably being movable to allow each pin to be rotated throu 1500 so as to enable it to be chosen to be one of said selected ones or not as desired,By using the resetting member tne user can effectively select is own conblnation. The invention will be described further, by way of example, with reference t the accompanying draings which illustrate a preferred embodiment, it being understood that the following description is illustrative and not limitative of the scope of the invention. In the drawings FiC. 1 is a cross sectional elevation of a first preferred embodiment of lock of the present invention Fig. 2 is an end elevation of the lock of Fig. 1 and Fig. 3 is an exploded view showing a second embodiment of lock, similar to the lock of Fig. 1, but with a modification first preferred embodiment of lock 10 of the invention co prises a cylindrical barrel 11 closed at one end by a ront late 12. Centrally of the front plate 12 a spigot 13 surrounds the outer end of a plunger 14 terminating in a handle 15, and around the spigot 13 ten or any other number of equally spaced bores 16 allow the neads of the same number of pins 17 to project therefrom.The pins 17 are axially slidable. ward disc 18 is carried by the plunger 14 insi e the nousing and selected ones of the pins 17, for example the upper pin 17a in Fig. 1, have slots 19 which are ali ned with the ward disc 18 when they are displaced inwardly towards the inner end of the barrel 11. The remainder have slots 20 which are aligned with the ward disc 13 men they are not so displaced. Each of the pins 1 also has a slot 21 in its outer side in te corresponding position. Each pin 17 has a central enlarged portion 22 in which both said slots 19 20 and 21 are formed and inner and outer shoulders 29, 30 are at each end oX the central enlarged portion 22. An outer scrambling plate 23 carried by the plunger 14 can engage the outer shoulders 30 and an inner scrambling plate 24 can engage the inner shoulders 29. The pins 17 will nornally all lie in their iniier positions with their outer ends close to the surface of the front plate 12. To open the locl 1G under these circumstances the user pulls the plunger 14 outwardly to cause the inner setting plate 24 to push all the pins 17 to protrude fro the front plate 12. lle then pushes said selected pins 17a nowil only to himself inwards, enabling the ward disc 18 to rotate and thus the plunger 14. A non circular protrusion 25 on the inner end of the plunger can operate a sliding bolt or the like. After rotation of the plunger 14 and opening of say, a door, the selected pins 17a are still depressed, thus showing the combination. Thus after opening the door the user must depress or pull the plunger 14 to align all the pins 17 by the operation of one or other of scrambling plates 23 and 24 on the central portions 22 of te pins 17, 17a. so as to conceal or scramble the combination. The user can change the combination very simply. Each pin 17 is rotatably mounted by the barrel assembly 11 and its inner end as a non circular portion 26 slidable relative to a slot 27 in a slotted circular resetting ember in the for of a plate 28. By pressing this plate 2d, to the ieft in Fig. 1 against the action of a spring 30, te user is enabled to rotate the pins 17 to bring one or other of said slots 27 into its radially inner o erative position. The plate 2. can now be returned to the normal locking position.When the combination lock is used in comb nation with a convention Yale or like slidable blot on the inside of the door the lock can be made to act as a deadlock or a conventional spring lock b sc lccting the rotational position of the plunger 14 at which the pins 17 are reset. The invention is not linited to use in connection with domestic doors, but can be used in any situation where a lockable rotary element is desired. Indicia 31 may be rovided on tie inner end of the pins 17 to identify the position of the slots 27 wl en setting the combination. Deten eans are provided for retaining the pins in their various axial positions. Indicia 32 may also be provided on the ront of the casing in order to identify individual t ins. To secure the lock 10 to a door a front plate 12 can have threaded apertures not shown which can receive tie ends of set screws passing through the door front the inside.Alternatively, studs can extend from the plate 12 and be engaged by nuts on the inside of te door. Fig. 3 illustrates a variation of the lock 10. Plate 24 is a simple annulus and the rear of the lock comprises a closing plate 33 to which a plug 34 is securable by screws 35. An annular groove 41 in plug 34 accommodates a resilient ring 36 against which bears one of two concave surfaces 37 formed in a rear part of each of pins 1, A second resilient ring 33 surrounds the rear parts of pins 17. To re set the lock of Fig. 3, the screws 35 are re oved and plug 34 detached. The desired pins 17 can no be rotated to be fart Of or out of the group of selected pins l7a. The plug 34 is now replaced. A bolt operating tongue 39 is pivotally attached to the inner end of plunger 14 by a split peg 40.