# Control of adhesive bond thickness.

## Abstract
Glass beads having diameters within the range of from 100 to 400 micrometers and occupying up to 30 by volume of the mixture, are admixed with adhesive. When two sur faces to be adhered are pressed together, the glass beads produce a bond of a certain thickness. Because the bond thickness can be controlled in this way, the bond strength can also be so controlled. The method can be used for secur ing together parts of vehicle bodies.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. An adhesive which includes glass beads admixed therewith, the beado having diameters within the rangejof from 100 to 400 micrometers and occupying up to 30 by volume of the mixture. 2. An adhesive as claimed in claim 1, wherein tbt adhesive is of the cross linking polymeric tripe. 3. An adhesive as claimed in claim 2, wherein the adhesive is an epoxy based adhesive. 4. An adhesive as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 3, wherein the diameter of the beads is within the range of from 200 to 300 micrometers. 5. An adhesive as hereinbefore described with reference to the accompanying drawings. 6 T vo surfaces joined by an adhesive as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 5. 7. Two aluminium alloy parts joined by an adhesive as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 5. 8. A vehicle incorporating two body parts of aluminium alloy as claimed in claim 7.

## Description
AlY 1 tS This invention relates to adhesives.Although the various parts of motor vehicle bodies are usually welded or bolted together, it is sometimes advantageous for them to be secured together with adhesive. However, it is important for the bond to be of a certain strength, which depends on the thickness of the bond, but this is difficult to control The use of wires to space apart surfaces to be joined together. has been proposed in laboratory conditions, and in the aerospace industry adhesives in the form of film are used, the film containing an inert metric for deternining the thickness of the bond.The invention provides an adhesive which includes glass heads admixed therewith, the beads having diameters within the range of from 100 to 400 micrometers and occupying up to 30 by volume of the mixture.The use of glass ensures that the bond is of the desired thickness while not substantially affecting the strength of the bond.Advantageously, the adhesive is of the cross linking polymeric type and is referably an epoxy based adhesive The diameter of the beads is preferably within the range of from 200 to 300 micrometers.The invention is of particular use in the automotive industry, where body panels and other parts for example, of alloy, may be secured together by the adhesive.It should be nod there will normally be a certain amount of spread in the diameter of the beads, and the thickness of the bond will tend to lie in the region of. the diameter of the larger beads. The amount oflspread can be reduced by sieving, for example, until the range of diameters is 10 , preferably 5S. The beads may be but do not have to be spherical. It has been found that glass beads normally used for sandblasting known as ballotini are suitable for the present invention.An adhesive in accordance with the invention will now be described by way of example, with reference to the accompanying drawings, which are graphs of the strength and thickness of the bond at various strengths of mixture. The adhcsive mixture comprised EC 2214, a single part alur.inium fi led heat curing epoxy paste and balloting that is, beads of 180 to 300 urn diameter.A measured weight of epoxy paste was warmed to room temperaturet and a measured weight of ballotini was stirred in and thoroughly mixed by hand.Two sheets of 16 swg., Biometals BE 2, an aluminium magnesi Am alloy were then prepared. Strips of 130mm x 20mm were cut from the sheet which was degreased by swabbing with M.E.K. and then etched in chromic sulphuric acid solution for 5 minutes, rinsed with deionised water and then dried.The adhesive mixture was then applied to the strips, which were lightly pressed together until the minimum bond thickness was limited by the ballotini.Measurements were made on the specimens as follows.Referring to Figure 1, lap shear strength measured on a Mayes LU 50 testing machine at a strain rate of lmm min in AlNm 2 was measured at various ballotini loadings plot A and the avcrage bond thickness plot B was also measured. Five samples ere prepared for each loading illld the results averaged. Referring toFigure 2., five samples of various ballotini loadinys were again measured. Plot A shows initial peel strength in MNm 1, plot B shows continuous peel strength in MNm , both being measured on a Players LU 50 testing machine. Plot C shows average bond thickness. ith ballotini filled adhesive the bond thickness was consistently 0.24mm 0.O2mm and did not vary with ballotini additions up to 40 by weight. Beyond 40 there seemed to be a greater resistance to developing a single layer of the glass spheres and hence thicker bonds were formed. This was more apparent with the T peel specimens because the jigging method, using springclips to hold the specimens together, exerts relatively light loads.The addition of ballotini up to 40C0 by weight had no apparent effect on shear or peel strengths but at 50 there did seem to be some reduction in properties. The 40 ballotini addition also appeared to be the maximum limit at which there was easy mixing and handling of the material.Lap shear strength variation with exposure time to salt spray and i mid environments is s own in Figure 3.The reaction to aggressive environments of epoxy adhesives containing glass ballotini at 10 by volume was examined after a short exposure period of 4 weeks. Within this limited period there seemed to be no adverse reaction.The use of ballotini esLablishes a simple way to control bond line thickness and hence give uniformity of strenoth. There is also a cost advantage, the ballotin costing less than a comparable volume of adhesive.