# Herbicidal sulfonamides, and compositions, preparation and use thereof.

## Abstract
Sulfonamide derivatives of the formula The compounds may be made e.g. by reacting the appropriate 2 substituted benzene sulfonyl isocyanate or isothiocyanate with the appropriate aminopyrimidine or aminotriazine.

## Claims
Claims 1. A compound selected fromEMI114.1 whereinQ is O, S orEMI114.2 when Q is 0 or S then R is C1 C12 alkyl C3 C10 alkenyl C2 C6 alkyl substituted with one to four substituents selected from 0 3 atoms of F, C1, Br, 0 2 methoxy groups and 0 1 cyano groups CH2CN CH2CO2CH3 CH2CO2C2H5 C3 C6 alkenyl substituted with 1 3 atoms of F, Cl, Br C5 C8 cycloalkyl C5 C8 cycloalkenyl C5 C6 cycloalkyl substituted with any of one to four methyl groups, OCH3, alkyl of C2 C4, F, Cl or Br C4 C10 cycloalkylalkyl C4 C8 cycloalkylalkyl with 1 2 CH3 C7 C10 bicycloalkyl C7 C10 bicycloalkenyl C10 tricycloalkyl, C10 tricyloalkenyl EMI114.3 where R9 is C1 C3 alkyl or hydrogen, R10 and R11 a are independently h hydrogen, C1 C3 alkyl, Cl, Br, OCH3, OC2H5, or R10 and R11 may be taken together to form a 5 or 6 member ring EMI114.4 tb SEP 0 SEP 0 tb 0 SEP 0 tb and n is O, 1, 2 or 3 provided the total number of carbon atoms is 12 EMI115.1 A is 0, S A1 is O, S,SO2 1 R may. also be C3 C10 alkynyl C3 C6 alkynyl substituted with F, Cl or Br EMI115.2 C1 C2 alkyl orEMI115.3 where R and R . are as previously defined when Q is 0, then R is H, M, CH2CH2OR7, CH2CH2CH2OR7,EMI115.4 where R7 is CH2CH3, CH CH3 2, phenyl, CH2CH2Cl, CH2CCl3 EMI115.5 where R8 is CH3, CH2 CH2, CH CH3 2, phenyl, CH2CH2Cl, CH2CCl3, and n is 2 or 3 provided R has a total number of carbon atoms 13EMI115.6 where R12 is CH3, CH2CH3, CH CH3 2, or phenyl and 2 R may also be CH2OR8 where R is CH3 , CH3CH3, CH3 2CH , ClCH2CH2 ,.Cl3CCH2, phenyl,EMI116.1 CH3CH2OCH2CH2 or CH3OCH2CH2 where R10 and R11 are as previously defined when Q isEMI116.2 then R is hydrogen C1 C12 alkyl EMI116.3 CH2CH2CH2OR12 where R12 is as defined above and n is 1 3 C3 C10 alkenyl C3 C8 cycloalkyl C5 C6 cycloalkenyl C5 C8 cycloalkyl substituted with 1 to 3 substituents selected from 0 2 OCH3, 0 3 CH3 or C2H5 trifluoromethylcyclohexyl C4 C10 cyclo alkylalkyl C4 C8 cycloalkylalkyl substituted with 1 2 CH3 CH2CN CH2CH2CN EMI116.4 CCH3 N CH3 2 EMI116.5 where n, R9, R10 and R11 are as defined aboveEMI116.6 Where R is hydrogen,C1 C4 alkyl, OCH3, F, Br, C1, CF3, CN, NO2, SO2CH3, SCH3, N CH3 2 R is hydrogen, C C alkyl, OCR3, F, Br, C1 R is hydrogen, CR3, C1, F or Br R6 is hydrogen,C1 C6 alkyl, allyl, CH2CN or CH2CH2CN or R6 and R can be taken together to form CH2 4 , CH2 5, CH2 6, CH2CH2OCH2CH2 EMI117.1 with the proviso that when R id OCH3 or or OCH2CH3 then R6 is H or CH3 when R6 is or CH2CN then R is CH2CH2CN or CH2CN and R andR6 have a total number of carbon atoms 13 3 R may also be C3 C6 alkynyl EMI117.2 R2 is H, Cl, Br, F, C1 C3 alkyl, NO2, SO2CH3, OCH , SCH , CF , N CH , NH , or CN, R3 is H, C1, Br, F or CH3 R4 is H, or CH3 R5 is H, CH3, orM is an alkali metal W is oxygen or sulfur X is H, Cl, CH3, OCH3, OCH2CH3 or OCH2CH2OCH3 Y is H C1 C1 C4 alkyl C1 C4 alkyl substituted with OCH3, OC2H5, CN, CO2CH3, CO2C2H5, or 1 to 3 atoms of F, C1, Br C3 C4 alkenyl CH2C CR13 where R13 is H, CH3, CH2Cl A CH2 n A1 C1 C3 alkyl , and n , A and A1 are as previously defined EMI117.3 where L is NH2, EMI117.4 NH C1 C4 alkyl , N C1 C4 alkyl 2 C1 C6 alkoxy SCN N3 NR16R17 where R16 is H orCH3 and R17 is H OCH3, C1 C4 alkyl C1 C4 alkyl substituted wieh CN, CO2CH3, CO2C2H5 C3 C4 alkenyl or C2 C3 alkyl substituted with OCH3, OC2H5 or R16 and R17 can be taken together to form CH2CH2CH2CH2 , CH2CH2OCH2CH2 O R14 where R14 is C3 C4 alkyl C3 C4 alkyl substituted with 1 3 atoms of F, Clor Br C1 C4 alkyl substituted with cyano C3 C4 alkenyl, where R13 is as previously defined EMI118.1 SR15 where R15 is C1 C4 alkyl,C1 C2 alkyl substituted with CR, allyl, propargyl with the provision that when Y is 4 carbon atoms, R is 4 carbon atoms, when X is C1, then Y is C1, and when X andY are both H, then R is 4 carbon atoms 4 Y may also be F Br EMI118.2 C1 C4 alkyl substituted withEMI118.3 where L is NH2, OH,EMI118.4 NH C1 C4 alkyl , N C1 C4 alkyl 2 or C3 C6 alkoxy NR16R17, where R17, is C5 C6 alkyl or C1 C4 alkyl substituted withEMI118.5 L is also OH Z is CH or N Y1 is H, OCH3, CH3 5 Y1 may also be OCH2CH3 and X1 is H, C1, OCH3, OCH2CH3, CH3 providing that X1 and Y1 are not both simultaneously hydrogen and when R1 isEMI119.1 then R4 and R5 are both H and R is 5 carbon atoms, and a when Y is not as defined in 4 , then R must be as defined in 1 , 2 or 3 b when Y1 is not as defined in 5 , then R must be as defined in 1 , 2 or 3 and agriculturally suitable salts thereof. 2. A compound of Claim 1 in whichEMI120.1 R4 and R5 are H and W is O. 3. A compound of Claim 2 in which Q is oxygen. 4. A compound of Claim 3 in which R is Cl Có alkyl, C3 C4 alkenyl, CH2CH2Cl, CH2CH20CH3 or CH2OR ê8. 5. A compound of Claim 4 in which X is CH3 or OCH3. 6. A compound of Claim 5 in which Y is CH3, OCH3EMI120.2 7. A compound of Claim 6 in which R3 is H. 8. A compound of Claim 7 in which R2 is H. 9. A compound of Claim 8 in which R ê8 is CH3 orCH3CH2 and R is CH3, CH2CHzOCH3 orCH2CH2OC2H5. 10. A compound of Claim 1, t 2 methoxyethoxy methyl 2 4,6 dimethoxypyrimidin 2 yl aminocarbonyl aminosul fonyl benzoate and agriculturally suitable salts thereof. 11. A compound of Claim 1, 2 methoxyethoxy methyl 4 ethoxy 6 methyl 1,3,5 triazin 2 yl aminocarbonyl aminosulfonyl benzoate and agriculturally suitable salts thereof. 12. A compound of Claim 1, 4 chlorophenoxy methyl 2 C 4y6 dilmethylpyrinlidin 2 yl aminocarbonyluamlnosulfon yl benzoate and agriculturally suitable salts thereof. 13. A compound of Claim 1, methyl 2 4 1 carboxy ethoxy 6 methyl 1,3,5 triazin 2 yl aminocarbonyl amino sulfonyl benzoate and agriculturally suitable salts thereof. 14. A compound of Claim 1, C 2 methoxyethoxy methylj 2 4,6 dimethylpyrimidin 2 yl aminocarbonyl aminosulfon yl benzoate and agriculturally suitable salts thereof. 15. A compound of Claim 1, a chloro 2 butynyl 2 4 methyl6 methylpyrimidin 2 yl aminocarbonyl aminosulfonyl benzoate and agriculturally suitable salts thereof. 16. A composition suitable for controlling the growth of undesired vegetation comprising an effective amount of a herbicidal compound and at least one of the following surfactant, solid or liquid diluent, characterised in that said herbicidal compound comprises a compound of any of claims 1 to 15. 17. A method for controlling the growth of undesired vegetation by applying to the locus to be protected an effective amount of a herbicidal compound, characterised in that said herbicidal compound comprises a compound of any of claims 1 to 15. 18. A method for regulating the growth of plants which comprises applying to the locus of said plants an effective but substantially non phytotoxic amount of a plant growth regulant, characterised in that said plant growth regulant comprises a compound of any of claims 1 to 15. 19. A method for preparing a compound of claim 1 which comprises a reacting a compound of formula EMI122.1 whereinQ is OR is C1 C12 alkyl C3 C10 alkenyl C2 C6 alkyl substituted with one to four substituents selected from 0 3 atoms of F C1, Br, 0 2 methoxy groups C3 C6 alkenyl substituted with 1 3 atoms of F, C1, Br C5 C8 cyclo alkyl C5 C8 cycloalkenyl C5 C6 cycloalkyl substituted with any of one to four methyl groups, methoxy, alkyl substituents of C2 C4, F, C1 or Br C4 C10 cycloalkylalkyl C4 C8 cycloalkylalkyl with 1 2 CH3 CH2CH2OR7 CH2CH2CH2OR7 EMI122.2 where R7 is CH2CH3, CH CH3 2, phenyl, CH2CH2Cl, CH2CCl3 EMI122.3 EMI122.4 where R8 is CH3, CH2CH3 CH CH3 2, phenyl, CH2CH2Cl, CH2CCl3, and n is 2 or 3 R2 is H, C1, Br, F, C1 C3 alkyl, N02, OCH3, SCH3, CF3, SO2CH3, N CH3 2, CN R3 is H, C1, Br or CH3 and W is O or S with an appropriate amino pyrimidine or aminotriazine of formula HNR1R5 wherein R1 and R5 are as defined in claim 1 b reacting a compound of formulaEMI123.1 wherein Q, R2, R3 and R4 are as defined in claim 1, and R is as defined in claim other than H or M, with an appropriate triazine or pyrimidine isothiocyanate SCN R1 wherein R1 is as defined in claim 1 c methylating A compound of claim 1 whereinR4 is H, Q is 0, S orEMI123.2 R is as defined in a above and W is o to obtain a compound of claim 1 wherein R4 is methyl d reacting a carbamyl or thiocarbamyl chloride of formulaEMI123.3 wherein Q and R as as defined in a above andW is O or S, with the amine HNR1R5 defined in a above or e hydrolyzing an ester of claim 1 whereinR is other than H to obtain a compound of claim 1 wherein R is H, or esterifying a compound of claim 1 wherein R is H to obtain a compound of claim 1 wherein R is other than H.

## Description
herbicidal sulfonamides, and compositions, preparation and use thereof Background of the Invention This invention relates to novel N hetero cyclicaminocarbonyl arylsulfonamides in which the aryl radical is substituted by a carboxyl radical, ester, thioester or amide thereof. The compounds of this invention and their agriculturally suitable salts, are useful as agricultural chemicals, e.g. plant growth regulants and herbicides. Netherlands Patent 121,788, publishedSeptember 15, 1966, discloses the preparation of compounds of the following Formula and their use as general or selective herbicides EMI1.1 wherein R1 and R2 may independently be alkyl of 1 4 carbon atoms and R3 and R4 may independently be hydrogen, chlorine or alkyl of 1 4 carbon atoms. U.S. Patent 3,637,366 discloses compounds having the formula EMI1.2 wherein R1 is hydrogen cr lower saturated aliphatic acyl and R2 is hydrogen, 2 pyrimidinyl, pyridyl, amidino, acetyl or carbamoyl. The disclosed compounds are said to provide control of crabgrass, cress, endive, clover and Poa annua. French Patent No. 1,468,747 discloses the following para substituted phenylsulfonamides as.being useful as antidiabetic agents EMI2.1 wherein R a , halogen, CF3 or alkyl. Logemann et al. Chem Ab., 53, 18052 g 1959 , disclose a number of sulfonamides, including uracil derivatives and those having the formula EMI2.2 wherein R is butyl, phenyl, or R1 is hydrogen or methyEMI2.3 When tested for hypoglycemic effect in rats oral doses of 25 mg 100 g , the compounds in which R is butyl and phenyl were most potent. The others were of low potency or inactive. Wojciechowski, J. Acta. Polon. Pharm 19, p. 121 5 1962 them. Ab., 59 1633 e describes the synthesis of N 2, 6 dimethoxypyrimidin 4 yl amino carbonyl 4 methylbenzenesulfonamide EMI2.4 Based upon sinilarity to a known compound, the author speculated that the foregoing compound might have a hypoglycemic activity. Substituted pyrimidinyl sulfonylureas of the following formula, which are also para substituted on the phenyl ring, are disclosed in Farmco Ed. Sci., 12, 586 1957 Chem. Ab., 53, 18052 g 1959 EMI3.1 wherein R H or CH3. The presence of undesired vegetation causes substantial damage to useful crops, especially agricultural products that satisfy man s basic food and fiber needs, such as cotton, rice, corn, wheat, and the like. The current population explosion and con comitavt world food and fiber shortage demand improvements in the efficiency of producing these crops.Preventing. or minimizing loss of a portion of such valuable crops by killing, or inhibiting the growth of undesired vegetation is one way of improving this efficiency. A wide variety of materials useful for killing or inhibiting controlling the growth of undesired vegetation is available such materials are commonly referred to as herbicides. The need still exists however, for more effective herbicides. SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION According to this invention, there are provided novel compounds of Formula I and their agriculturally suitable salts, e.g. Na, R, alkyl ammonium, trichloro acetic acid, suitable agricultural compositions con taining them and methods of using them as general or selective pre emergence and post emergence herbicides and as plant growth regulants EMI4.1 whereinQ is 0, S orEMI4.2 when Q is O or S then R is Cl C12 alkyl C3 10 alkenyl C2 C6 alkyl substituted with one to four substituents selected from 0 3 atoms of F, C1, Br, 0 2 methoxy groups and 0 1 cyano group CH2CN CH2CO2Ch3 CH2CO2C2H5 C3 C6 alkenyl substituted with 1 3 atoms of F, C1,Br C5 C8 cycloalkyl C5 C5 cycloalkenyl CS C6 cycloalkyl substituted with any of one to four methyl groups, OCH3, alkyl of C2 C4, F, Cl or Br C4 Cl0 cycloalkylalkyl C4 C8 cycloalkylalkyl with 1 2 CH3 C7 C10 bicycloalkyl C7 C10 bicycloalkenyl C10 tricycloalkyl, C10 tricycloooalkenyl EMI4.3 where R9 is C1 C3 alkyl or hydrogen, R10 and R11 are independently hydrogen, C1 C3 alkyl, C1, Br, OCH3, OC2H3, or R10 and R11 may be taken together to form a 5 or 6 member ring EMI4.4 tb SEP O SEP , SEP SEP O SEP tb SEP O SEP SEP O tb and n is 0, 1, 2 or provided the total member of carbon atoms is 12 EMI5.1 A is 0, S A1 is 0, S, SO2 1 R may also he C3 C10 alkynyl C3 C6 alkynyl substituted with F, Cl or Br EMI5.2 C1 C2 alkyl orEMI5.3 where R10 and R11 are as previously defined when Q is 0, then R is H, M, CH2CH2OR7, CH2CH2Ch2OR7,EMI5.4 where R7 is CH2CH3, CH CH3 2, phenyl, CH2CH2Cl, CH2CCl3 EMI5.5 where R8 is CH2CH3, CH CH3 2, phenyl, CH2CH2Cl, CH2CCl3, and n is 2 or 3 provided R has a total number of carbon atoms 13 EMI5.6 where R12 is CH3, CH2Ch3, CH CH3 2, or phenyl and 2 R may also be CH2OR8 where R8 is CH3, CH CH3 2CH , ClCH2CH2 , Cl2CCH2, pnenyl,EMI6.1 CH3CH2OCH2CH2 or CH3OCH2CH2 where R10 and R11 are as previously defined when Q isEMI6.2 then R is hydrogen C1 C12 alkyl EMI6.3 where R12 is as defined above and n is 1 3 C3 C10 alkenyl C3 C8 cycloalkyl C5 C6 cycloalkenyl C5 C8 cyclo alkyl substituted with 1 to 3 substituents selected from 0 2 OCE3, 0 3 CE3 or C2H5 trifluoromethylcyclohexyl C4 C10 cyclo alkyl alkyl r Cs cycloalkylalkyl substituted with 1 2 CH3 CS2CN CE2CE2CN EMI6.4 N CH3 2 EMI6.5 where n, R9, R10 and R11 are as defined above EMI6.6 where R is hydrogen, C1 C4 alkyl, OCH3, F, Br,Cl, CF3, CN, NO2, SO2CH3, SCH3, N CH3 2 R is hydrogen, C1 C4 alkyl, OCH3, F, Br, C1 R is hydrogen, CH3, Cl, F or Br R6 is hydrogen, C1 C6 alkyl, allyl, CH2CN or CH2CH2CN or R6 and R can be taken together to form CH2 , CH2 5, CH2 6, CH2CH2OCH2CH2 orEMI7.1 with the proviso that whenR is OCH3 then R6 is CH3 when R6 is CH2CH2CN or CH2CN then R is CH2CH2CN or CH2CN and R andR6 have a total number of carbon atoms 3 R may also be C3 C6 alkynyl R1 isEMI7.2 R2 is H, C1, Br, F, C1 C3 alkyl, NO2, SO2CH3, OCH3, SCH3, CF3 N CH3 2, NH2, or CN R3 is H, C1, Br, F or CE3 R4 is H, or CH3 R5 is H, CH3, or OCH3 M is an alkali metal W is oxygen or sulfur X is H, Cl, CH3, OCH3, OCH2CH3 or OCH2CH2OCH3 Y is H C1 C1 C4 alkyl C1 C4 alkyl substituted with OCH3, OC2H5, CN, CO2H3, CO2C2H5, or 1 to 3 atoms of F, C1, Br C3 C4 alkenyl CH2C CR13 where R13 is H, CH3, CH2Cl A CH2 n A1 C1 C3 alkyl , and n , A and A1 are as previously defined EMI7.3 where L is NH2,EMI7.4 NH C1 C4 alkyl , N C1 C4 alkyl 2, C1 C6 alkoxy SCN N3 NR16R17 where R16 is H orCH3 and R17 is Z OCH3 C1 C4 alkyl C1 C4 alkyl substituted with CN, CO2CH3, CO2C2H5,C3 C4 alkenyl or C2 C3 alkyl substituted with OCH3, OC2H5 or R16 and R17 can be taken together to form CH2CH2CH2CH2 , CH2CH2OCH2CH2 O R14 where R14 is C1 C4 alkyl C2 C4 alkyl substituted with 1 3 atoms of F, Clor Br C1 C4 alkyl substituted with cyano C3 C4 alkenyl, where R13 is as previously defined EMI8.1 SR15 where R15 is C1 C4 alkyl,C1 C2 alkyl substituted with CN, allyl, propargyl with the provision that when Y is 4 carbon atoms, R is 4 carbon atoms, when X is C1, then Y is C1, and when X andY are both , then R is 4 carbon atoms 4 Y may also be F Br EMI8.2 C1 C4 alkyl substituted withEMI8.3 where L is NH2, OH, NCH3, NH C1 C4 alkyl , OCH3 N C1 C4 alkyl 2 or C3 C6 alkoxy NR16R17, where R17, is C5 C6 alkyl or C1 C4 alkyl substituted withEMI8.4 L is also OH Z is CH or N Y1 is H, OCH3, CH3 5 Y1 may also be OCH2CH3 andX1 is H, C1, OCH3, OCH2CH3, 3 providing that X1 and Y1 are not both simultaneously hydrogen and when R1 isEMI8.5 then R4 and R5 are both H and R is 5 carbon atoms provided that 1 when Y is not as defined in 4 , then R must be as defined in 1 , 2 or 3 2 when Y1 is not as defined in 5 , then R must be as defined in 1 , 2 or 3. More Preferred and in increasing order of preference for reasons of higher biological activity and or lower cost or both 1 Compounds of the generic scooe in which R1 isEMI9.1 R4 and R5 are H, and W is O. 2 Compounds of Preferred 1 in which Q is oxygen. 3 Compounds of Preferred 2 in which R isC1 C6 alkyl, C3 C4 alkenyl, CH2CH2Cl, CH2CH2OCH3, or CH2OR8. 4 Compounds of Preferred 3 in which X isCH3 or OCH3. 5 Compounds of Preferred 4 in which Y isCE3, OCE3 orEMI9.2 6 Compounds of Preferred 5 in whichR3 is H. 7 Compounds of Preferred 6 in whichR2 is B. B Compounds of Preferred 7 in which R8 is CH3 or CH3CX2 and R is CH3 CH2CH20CH3, or CH2CH2OCH2H5. Specifically Preferred for highest. activity and or lowest cost and or greatest ease of synthesis t 2 methoxyethoxy methyX 2 t 4 6 dimethoxypyrimidin 2 y1 aminocarbonyl aminosulfonyl benzoate. 2 methoxyethoxy methyli 2 4 ethoxy 6 methyl 1,2,5 triazin 2 y1 aminocarbonyl aminosulfonyl benzoate. t 4 chlorophenoxy methyl 2 4,6 dimethylpyrlmidin 2 y1 aminocarbonyl aminosulfonyl benzoate.methyl 2 4 1 carboxyethoxy 6 methyl 1,3,5 triazin 2 y1 aminocabonyl aminosulfonyl benzoate. 2 methoxyethoxy methyl 2 4,6 dimethylpyrímidin 2 y1 aminocarbonyl aminosulfonyl benzoate. 4 chloro 2 butynyl 2 4 methoxy 6 methylpyrimidin 2 y1 aminocabonyl aminosulfonyl benzoate. These compounds may be used in the form of an agriculturally suitable salt, where appropriate. Also included among the compounds of this invention are the compounds of Formula I in claim 1 of U.S. Application Serial No. 098,781 filed 30 November 1979. Synthesis Many of the compounds of Formula I are pre pared as shown in Equation 3 by the reaction of an appropriately substituted o carbonylbenzenesulfonyl isocyanate or isothiocyanate with an appropriate aminopyrimidine or aminotriazine. These compounds of Formula I can be converted into othercompounds of Formula I.as will be shown in subsequent equations. Thus, o carbonylbenzenesulfonyl isocyanates and sulfonyl isothiocyanates are important intermediates for the preparation of the compounds of this invention. Therefore, the synthesis of these is described in Equations 1 and 2. Equation 1EMI11.1 A mixture of the appropriate sulfonamide, e.g.an o alkoxycarbonyl benzenesulfonamide Ila such as the methyl ester, which is known in the art, an alkyl isocyanate such as butyl isocyanate and a catalytic amount of 1,4 diaza 22.2 bicyclcoctne DABCO in xylene or other inert solvent of sufficiently high boiling point e.g. 135 is heated to approximately 135 . Phosgene is added to the mixture until an excess of phosgene is present as indicated by a drop in the boiling point. The mixture is heated further to drive off the excess phosgene .After the mixture is cooled and filtered to remove a small amount of insoluble by products,.the solvent and alkyl isocyanate are distilled off in vacuo leaving a residue which is the crude sulfonyl isocyanate II.In Equation 1 Q is O R is C1 C12 alkyl C3 C10 alkenyl C2 C6 alkyl substituted with one to four substituents selected from 0 3 atoms of F, C1, Br, 0 2 methoxy groups C C alkenyl substituted with 1 3 atoms of F, C1, Br C5 C8 cyclo alkyl C5 C8 cycloalkenyl C C6 cycloalkyl substituted with any of one to four methyl groups, methoxy, alkyl substituents of C2 C4, F, C1 or Br C4 C10 cycloalkylalkyl C4 C8 cycloalkylalkyl with 1 2 CH3 CH2CH2OR7 CH2CH2CH2OR7 EMI12.1 where R7 is CH2CH3, CH CH3 2, phenyl, CH2CH2Cl, CH2CCl3 EMI12.2 EMI12.3 where R8 is CH3, CH2CH3 CH CH3 2, phenyl, CH2CH2C1, CH2CC13, and n is 2 or 3 R2 is H, C1, Br, F, C1 C3 alkyl, N02, OCH3, SCH3, CF3, SO2CH3, N CH3 2, CN R3 is H, Cl, Br or CH3 Where W S in Formula I the useful sulonyi isothiocyanate intermediates are prepared according to Equations 2 and 2 .Equation 2EMI12.4 The o carbonyl substituted sulfonamide is dissolved in dimethylformamide DMF with an equivalent amount of carbon disulfide and two equivalents of potassium hydroxide are added portionwise at room temperature. The mixture is stirred for 1 8 hours and diluted with ethyl acetate,. ethyl ether or similar aprotic solvent to cause the dipotassium salt of the dithiocarbamic acid to precipitate, The salt is isolated, dried and suspended in an inert solvent such as xylene, benzene, carbon tetrachloride or methylene chloride. Phosgene is added to the stirred suspension at below room temperature and the mixture stirred for 1 3 hours. In place of phosgene, a chloroformic ester e.g.metsyl chloroformate , phosphorus pentachloride ,sulfuryl chloride or thionyl chloride can be used. The sulfonylisothiocyanate which is formed is usually soluble in the solvent and is isolated by filtering off the inorganic potassium chloride and concentrating the filtrate. These isothiocyanates tend to be unstable and dimerize readily, Equation , however, the dimers can be usedEquation 2 EMI13.1 EMI14.1 in the same manner as the parent isothiocyanates for the purposes of this invention. The synthetic method chosen for the preparation of compounds of Formula I depends largely on the substituents R and R4. As shown in Equation 3, compounds of Formula I, wherein , R, R2 and R3 are as defined for Equation 1, are conveniently prepared by reacting an appropriately substituted carbonylbenzenesulfonyl isocyanate or isothiocyanate of Formula Ilb with an appropriately substituted aminopyrimidine or amino triazine of Formula III Equation 3EMI14.2 The reaction of Equation 3 is best carried out in inert aprotic organic solvents such as methylene chloride, tetrahydrofuran or acetonitrile, at ambient pressure and temperature.The mode of addition is not critical however, it is often convenient to add the sulfonyl isocyanate or isothiocyanate to a stirred suspension of amine III. Since such isocyan ates and isothiocyanates are liquids, low melting solids or are readily soluble in solvents such as those listed above, their addition can be easily controlled. The reaction is generally exothermic. In some cases, the desired product is soluble in the warm reaction medium and on cooling crystallizes in pure form. Other products which are soluble in the reaction medium are isolated by evaporation of the solvent, trituration of the solid residue with solvents such as l chlorobutane or ethyl ether, and filtration. As shown in Equation 3A compounds of Formula Ia, whereinR is not H or M, W is S and R5 is H, are alternatively prepared ty the reaction of an appropriately substituted o carbonylbenzenesulfonamide with the appropriate triazine or pyrimidine isothiocyanate of formula IIIA. Equation 3AEMI15.1 The reaction of Equation 3A is best carried out by dissolving or suspending the sulfonamide and isothiocyanate in a polar solvent such as acetone, acetonitrile, ethyl acetate or methyl ethyl ketone, adding an equivalent of a base such as potassium carbonate and stirring the mixture at ambient temperature up to the reflux temperature for one to twenty four hours. In some cases, the product precipitates from the reaction mixture and can be removed by filtration. The product is stored in dilute mineral acid, filtered and washed with cold water. If the product does not precipitate from the reaction mixture it can be isolated by evaportlon of the solvent, trituratlonof the residue with dilute mineral acid and filtering off the insoluble product. The heterocyclic isothiocyanates which are used in the procedure of Equation 3A are prepred, for example, according to the method of Japan patent Application Pub Kokai 51 143686,June 5, 1976, or that of W. Abraham and G. BarnikowTetrahedron 29, 691 7 1973 . As shown in Equation 4 compounds of Formula I, wherein Q is 0, S orEMI16.1 and R is as defined for Equation 1R4 is methyl and W is 0, can be prepared by methylation of salts IV wherein M is an alkali metal cation such as sodium derived from compounds of Formula I wherein R4 is hydrogen Equation 4EMI16.2 X being an incipient anion and n being an integer corresponding to the valence of X. The reaction of Equation 4 is best carried out in aprotic organic solvents such as tetrahydro furan, dimethylformamide, or dimethylacetamide, at ambient pressure and temperature. Methylating agents V, such as dimethyl sulfate or methyl iodide, can be employed. The desired product can be isolated by pouring the reaction mixture into water and filtering off the precipitated solid. As shown in Equation 5, compounds of Formula Ic, wherein Q is 0, S orEMI17.1 R and R4 are as defined forEquation 4, can also be prepared by the reaction of an appropriately substituted sulfonyl N methylcarbamyl chloride or sulfonyl N methylthiocarbamyl chloride of Formula VI with an appropirate aminopyrimidine or aminotriazine of Formula IIIEquation 5EMI17.2 The preparation of ureas and thioureas, like those of Formula Ic, from amines and carbamyl chlorides and thiocarbamyl chlorides is well known to the art.The reaction can best be carried out by adding equivalent amounts of the chlorides and amine III to an inert organic solvent, such as tetrahydrofuran, xylene, or methylene chloride, in the presence of an acid acceptor, such as triethylamine, pyridine, or sodium carbonate employing temperatures from 20 130 . Soluble products can be isolated by filtering off the precipitated salts and concentration of the filtrate.Insoluble products can be filtered off and washed free of. salts with water. The chlorides of Formula can be prepared by phtsgenation or thiophosgenation of N alkylsulfonamide salts. The sulfonamide salt is added to an excess of phosgene or thiophosgene in an inert organic solvent, such as tetrahydrofuran, toluene, or xylene, whereupon, after removal of the excess phosgene, the chloride VT can be isolated or reacted in situ with the amine III. Compounds of Formula Te, wherein R is H, can be prepared by hydrolysis of esters ofFormula Id wherein R is C1 q2 alkyl. As shown inEquation 6, alkali metal base catalyzed hydrolysis in aqueous methanol produces the alkali metal carboxylate from which the carboxylic acid is obtained by treatment with mineral acids such as EC1 Equation 6EMI18.1 The reaction of Equation 6 is best carried out in a solution containing the compound being hydrolyzed , 2 to 10 parts of methanol, 10 50 parts of water and 2 10 equivalents of a base such as sodium or potassium hydroxide maintaining the temperature at 30 900C for 3 24 hours.The reaction yields the soluble alkali metal salt of the carboxylic acid, which is suitable for the purposes of this invention.Conversion of these salts to the acid form is easily carried out by addition to the reaction medium of strong mineral acids, such as hydrochloric or sulfuric acid, causing the desired carboxylic acids to precipitate from solution. Compounds wherein W and Q are 0 and R is H can be converted to compounds of this invention where R is a higher alkyl or substituted hydrocarbyl group, as already disclosed herein, by the reaction of salts of the parent acid R H with R Halogen as shown inEquation 6A.Equation 6AEMI19.1 The reaction of Example 6A is of use where the intermediate compound R Halogen contains a readily replaceable halogen as is the case for substituted or unsubstituted allylic or benzylic halides, a halonitriles, or a halocarbonyl compounds. The procedure of Equation 6A is best carried out in inert polar solvents such as tetrahydrofuran, acetonitrile or acetone by combining the appropriately substituted carboxylic acid and base such as triethylamine or 1,4 diaza 2,2,2 bicyclooctane adding the appropriate halide and heating the mixture to reflux with stirring for 1 to 16 hours. The reaction mixture can be evaporated to dryness and the residue triturated with water, filtered and washed with water to separate the desired product from the water soluble salt. Certain compounds of Formula I, wherein a. is oxygen, are more conveniently prepared by reaction of the silver salt of the carboxylic acid and the appropriate R group containing a suitable leaving group such as iodide. Thus, a substituted iodobenzene is reacted with the silver carboxylate as inEquation 6B.Equation 63EMI20.1 in a suitable solvent such as acetonitrile between 0 and 800 for 1 6 hours. Esters where R is C3 Cs alkynyl are also con leniently prepared by this method. The silver salt is prepared by adding an excess of silver nitrate to an aqueous solution of the sodium carboxylate and filtering the precipitate and washing with water. ompounds ofFormula I wherein Y of group R1 containsEMI21.1 and L is OH can be prepared according to the procedure of Equation 6C wherein R, R2 R3, Q, R, W, X and Rx are as previously defined.Equation 6CEMI21.2 The reaction of Equation 6C is best carried out by suspending the compound being hydrolyzed in 10 to 100 parts of water with enough of a base such as sodium hydroxide or potassium hydroxide to obtain a pH of 10 to 14, ideally, a pn of 12, heating until a clear solution is obtained and then adjusting the pH to 1 3, preferably 3. The product is thus caused to precipitate in some instances and can be removed by filtration or it can be extracted into a polar organic solvent such as methylene chloride and isolated by evaporation of the solvent. When Q is NR6 the compounds can be prepared from the esters of this invention where R is C1 C4 preferably C1 by the reaction of the esters with dialkyl gluminum N alkylamide derivatives according toEquation 7, R, R1, R2, R3 and R6 being as previously defined.Equation 7EMI22.1 The intermediate alkylaminoaluminum compounds prepared according to A. Basha, M. Lipton and S. W.Weinreb, Tetrahedron Letters 4171 1977 , are co mingled with.a suspension of the esters .n toluene or similar inert solvent and the mixture is ref fluxed for one to six hours. The product can be isolated by evaporation of the solvent toluene, adding methylene chloride and aqueous hydrochloric acid to decampose the residual reaction mass and extracting the desired product into methylene chloride. Evaporation of the methylene chloride yields the desired product in sufficiently pure form for the purpose of this invention. Compounds of formula IID, wherein 0 isNR6 and R1, R2, R3 and B4 are as previously defined in the general formula, which are useful as intermediates in Equation 3A, are prepared as shown in Equation 7A. EMI23.1 The conditions described for Equation 7 are suitable for the conversion of the esters of formula IIc to the amides IId as shown in Equation 7A. The products of Equation 7A are especially useful for the preparation of compounds of formula Ia wherein Y has an ester substituent CO2 C1 C6 , by the route described in Equation 3A. When O is S, these compounds can prepared from the esters of this invention wherein QR is C C alkoxy preferably C1 by the reaction of the esters with the appropriate dialkylaluminum alkylthiolate according to Equation 8. Equation 8EMI24.1 The intermediate aluminum thiolates can be prepared according to R. P. Hatch and S. W. Weinreb,Journal of Organic Chemistry, Vol. 42, 3960 1977 .The reaction of the thiolate with the ester of this invention is best carried out in a neutral solvent such as toluene or xylene at reflux for one to three hours. Best results are obtained when the aluminum thiolate compound is present in excess of the stoichiometric amount required. Sulfonamides of formula IIb are also converted from carboxylic acid esters to the thiolesters as shown in Equation 8A according to the method ofR. P. Hatch and S. W. Weinreb as described forEquation 8 wherein R, R2 R3 and B4 are as previously defined. EMI25.1 The conditions described for Equation 8 are suitable for the conversion of the sulfonamides of formula IIb as shown in Equation 8A. The product of Equation 8A are especially useful for the preparation of compounds of formula Ia, wherein Y has a substituent CO2C1 C6 by the route described for Equation 3A. An alternate route to prepare compounds where R is bonded to Q. Q O at a secondary carbon involves the reaction of the appropriate dialkylaluminun alcoholate and an ester of this invention wherein R is a lower primary alkyl group, preferably methyl, according to Equation 9.Equation 9EMI25.2 The reaction is carried out in a neutral solvent such as toluene with a boiling point sufficiently high to brine about the desired reaction during reflux. The dialkylaluminum alcoholate being present in greater than an equivalent amount to the ester for best yields. After refluxing for 1 15 hours, the reaction mixture is decomposed with dilute hydrochloric acid and the product extracted into methylene chloride. Evaporation of the methylene chloride yields the desired compound sufficiently pure for the purposes of this invention. The product can be triturated with a solvent, e.g. l chlorobutane to remove impurities. The synthesis of heterocyclic amines nas Deen reviewed in The Chemistry of Heterocyclic Compounds a series published by Interscience Publ., New York and London. 2 Aminopyrimidines are described by D. J. Brown in The Pyrimidines, Vol. XVI of this series. The 2 amino 1,3,5 triazines are reviewed by X. R. Huffman and in The Triazines of this same series. The synthesis of triazines are also de scribed by F. C. Schaefer, U.S. Patent No. 3,154,547 and by K. R. Huffman and F. C. Schaeffer, J. Org. Chem. 28, 1516 1821 1963 . The preparation of agriculturally suitable salts of the compounds of Formula I, as well as starting materials and intermediates for said compounds, not otherwise described herein, is disclosed in our U.S. Patent Specification No. 4,127,405, to which the reader is referred for further information. The compounds of this invention may in general be made by the methods disclosed in our European Patent Specification No. 0007687, or by suitable variants thereof. The compounds of this invention and their preparation are further illustrated by the following examples wherein temperatures are given in degrees centigrade, and parts by weight unless otherwise indicated. EXAMPLE 1Methyl 2 isocyanatosulfonyl benzoate A stirred mixture containing 157 g of methyl 2 sulfamoylbenzoate, 73 g of butyl isocyanate, 0.3g of 1,4 diazabicyclo 2.2.2 octane and 1.0 Q of xylene was heated to reflux for one half hour. Phos gene gas was then passed into the system under a dry ice reflux condenser allowing the reaction temperature to drop to 1100. This addition was continued until the reflux temperature remained at 1200 without further phosgene addition. The temperature of the reaction mixture was then raised to 1360 tby removal of the dry ice reflux condenser after which it was cooled to room temperature and filtered.Evaporation of the filtrate yielded the desired crude sulfonyl isocyanate which could be purified by distillation at 132 1380C under 1.0 to 1.1 mm of mercury pressure. The product is extremely reactive with water so contact with moisture should be scrupulously avoided. EXAMPLE 2 Isocrocyl 2 isocyanatosulfonyl benzoate To 60.7 g .25 mole of isopropyl 2 sulfamoyl benzoate in 300 ml dry molecular sieves xylenes was added 25.0 g .25 mole n butyl isocyanate and .1 g l,4 diazabicyclo 2.2.2 octane. The mixture was heated to reflux temperature and phosgene was slowly bubbled through the solution for 2 hours. An infrared spectrum of the reaction mixture indicated formation of the desired sulfonylisocyanate 2250 cm The resulting cloudy solution was cooled to room temperature and decanted from a small amount of solid impurity. Evaporation of the resulting clear solution yielded the desired crude sulfonyl isocyanate, which was used in subsequent steps without further purification. EXAMPLE 3 N 4,6 Dimethylpyrimidin 2 y1 aminocarbonyl 2 methoxyearbonylbenzenesulfonamide To 37 g. of 2 amino 4,5 dimethylpyrimidine in 500 ml of anhydrous acetonitrile was added 67 g of 2 methoxycarbonylbenzenesulfonylisocyanate with stirring at ambient temperatures. The resulting mixture was thereafter stirred for sixteen hours and then filtered to remove the desired product which had precipitated as a white solid, m.p. 198 202 . It showed infrared absorption peaks at 1750, 1700, 1600 and 1550 1 consistent for the desired compound. EXAMPLE 4N 4 Methoxy 6 methylpyrimidin 2 y1 aminocarbonyl i methoxycarbonylbenz enesulf onamide To a stirred suspension of 1.4 g of 2 amino 4 methoxy irmethylpyrimidine in 30 ml of anhydrous methylene chloride was added at ambient temperature 2.4 g of 2 methoxycarbonylbenzenesulfonylisocyanate. After stirring for 16 hours, the foregoing mixture was filtered to remove unreacted amine, and the filtrate evaporated at temperatures up to 400 and reduced pressure. The resul tant residue was stirred in 25 ml of water, the pE ad justed to 10 by the addition of 50 sodium hydroxide and the solution filtered. Acidification of the fil trate to pH 3 with hydrochloric acid caused precipita tion of, the desired product which was removed by fil traction and dried to yield 0.8 g of product melting at 173 179 . It showed infrared absorption peaks at 1720, 1680, 1630 and 1550 cm 1, consistent for N 4 methoxy 6 methylpy rimidin 2 y1 aminocarbonyl 2 methoxycarbonylbenzene sulfonamide. EXAMPLE 5N 4,6 Dimethoxy 1,3,5 triazin 2 y1 aminocarbonyl 2 methoxycarbonylbenzenesulfonarnide A mixture of 1.6 g of 2 amino 4,6 dimethoxy1,3,5 triazine, 25 ml of anhydrous methylene chloride and 2.4 g of 2 methoxycarbonylbenzenesulfonylisocyanate was stirred at ambient temperature for 16 hours. It was then filtered to remove unreacted amine and the filtrate evaporated at temperatures up to 400 under reduced pressure. The residue was triturated with butyl chloride and filtered to yield the desired compound which melted above 170 with decomposition. EXAMPLE 6N 4 Methoxy 6 methyl 1,3,5 triazin 2 y1 aminocarbo nyl 2 methoxycarbanylbenzenesulfonamide To an anhydrous suspension of 1.4 g of 2 amino 4 methoxy 6 methyl l,3,5 triazine in 25 ml of methylene chloride was added with stirring at ambient temperature and pressure 2.4 g of 2 methoxycarbonyl bentenesulfonylisocyanate. The mixture was thereafter stirred for 16 hours and filtered. The filtrate was evaporated to dryness, the residue was triturated with butyl chloride and the product removed by filtration.The product thus obtained melted at 165t, and had absorption peaks in the infrared at 1550, 1600, 1680 and 1700 cm l and in the NMR,spectrum at 2.5, 3.65, 4.0 with an aromatic multiplet at 7.2 8 ppm. EXAMPLE 7 N 4, 6 dimethylpyrimidin 2 yl aminocarbonyl 2 car boxybenzenesulfonamide A . A mixture of 2.0 g of N 4,6 dimethylpyri midin 2 yl aminocarbonyl 2 methoxycarbonylbenzene sulfonamide and 11 ml of 50 aqueous sodium hydroxide was warmed on a steam bath with shaking 40 ml of water was added and heating and shaking continued during the next half hour. The resulting solution was then filtered and the filtrate acidified with hydrochloric acid to pH 2 to yield a precipitate which was isolated by filtration to yield the title compound, 0.7 g melting at 1600 with decomposition.The nuclear magnetic resonance spectrum showed resonance peaks for the methyl substituents on the pyrimidine ring at 2.66 ppm and the ring hydrogens at 7.2 to 8.4 ppm. The disappearance of the resonance peak at 4.0 ppm confirmed the conversion of the methyl ester to the carboxy group. EXAMPLE 8 N 4 Methoxy 6 methylpyrlmidin 2 yl aminocarbonyl 2 carboxybenzenesulfonamide 4.0 g of N 4 methoxy 6 methylpyrimidin 2 yl aminocarbonyll 2 methoxycarbonylbenzenesulfonamide was dissolved in a mixture of 20 ml of absolute ethanol, 2.5 ml of water and 2.5 g of potassium hydroxide. After stirring at 25O for 24 hours the mixture had become a semi solid mass. Enough cold water was added to dissolve the solid and the solution was acidified to pH 3 with concentrated hydrochloric acid. The resultant precipitate was isolated by filtration and washed with cold water.The precipitate was dried to afford 3.7 g of the title compound, melting at 195 2000. The nuclear magnetic resonance spectrum exhibited resonances for the methyl and methoxy substituents on the pyrimidine ring at 2.67 ppm and 4.20 ppm respectively. Peaks for the pyrimidine ring proton and phenyl ring protons were observed at 6.73 ppm and 7.9 to 8.6 ppm respectively. The disappearance of the resonance peak at 4.10 confirmed the conversion of the methyl ester to the carboxy group. Example 9 2 Benryloxystsbonyl N , 5 dimethylpyrimidin 2 yl aminocabonyl benzenesulfonamide To 1.75 g of 2 4,6 dimethylpyrimidin 2 y1 aminocarbonylsulfamoyl benzoic acid was added 0.51 g of triethylamine in 10 ml tetrahydrofuran and 0.88 g of ben y1bromide in 10 m1 of tetrahydrofuran. The mixture was heated to reflux for 1.5 hours, filtered and the tetrahydrofuran evaporated in vacuo. The residue was extracted with hot l chlorobutane, diluted with ethyl acetate, washed with water and saturated aqueous sodium bicarbonate. The organic phase was dried over magnesium sulfate, filtered and the solvents evaporated in vacuo.The resultant residue was crystalli ed from l chlorobutane to a melting point of 157 . This product showed absorption peaks in the infrared region at 1720, 1600, 1560 cm 1 consistent for the desired ester and absorption by nuclear magnetic resonance at 2.45C, singlet, for Cli3 5.3 singlet, CH2 on benzyl 6.65 singlet CH of pyrimidine and aryl peaks at 7 86. EXAMPLE 10 N 4,6 dimethylpyrimidin 2 yl aminocarbonyl 2 di methylaminocarbonylbenzenesulfonamide. To 4.1 g of N 4,6 dimethylpyrimidin 2 y1 2 methoxycarbonylbenzenesulfonamide in 75 ml of toluene was added 37 ml of a methylene chloride and toluene solution 3 5 containing 1.25 g of dimethylaluminum dimethylamide with stirring at ambient temperature.The mixture was heated to reflux 820C for two hcxas, cooled, 10 ml of methanol added and the solvents evaporated in vacuo. The residue was treated with a mixture of methanol, water and dilute hydrochloric acid and the precipitated product filtered off to yield 1.25 g of the desired product. Extraction of the aqueous filtrate with methylene chloride gave 1.12 g more product, m.p. 166 80C. The product showed NMR absorption peaks at 2.5 ppm, pyrimidine methyl 2.85 and 3.1 ppm, nonequivalent methyl groups of the dimethylamide 6.8 ppm, pyrimidins. H and 7.2 8.4 ppm, aromatic hydrogens. Example 11N 4,6 dimethoxypyrimidin 2 yl aminocarbonyl 2 isopropylaminocarbonylbenzenesulfonamide. To 4.5 g of N 4,6 dimethoxypyrimidin 2 yl amino carbonyl 2 methoxyzarbonylbenzenesulfonamide in 75 ml methylene chloride was added with stirring at ambient temperature, 37 ml of a methylene chloride solution containing 1.44 g of dimethyaiwminum isopropylamide. The mixture was heated to reflux and the methylene chloride removed by distillation while adding dry toluene until a temperature of 100 C was reached. Reflexing was continued for two hours at 1000C after which the mixture was cooled and 10 ml of methanol was added and the solvents evaporated in vacuo. The residue was then triturated with a mixture of methanol, water and dilute HCl and the product extracted from this aqueous slurry with methylene chloride. Evaporation of the methylene chloride extract yielded the product as a solid 4.28 g . Trituration of the product with l chloro butane gave 2.0 g of pure product m.p. 148 150 C which showed a single spot on TLC Silica gel, Acetone HexÅane 1 1, Rf 0.34 and gave absorption peaks in the NMR spectrum at 1.15, 4.0, 3.8 4.3 and 7.5 8.2 ppm. Elem. Anal. Calcd. for C17H21N5O65 Calc. C, 48.2 H, 4.96 N, 16.5. Found C, 48.1 H, 5.20 N, 16.0. Example 12 N 4,6 dimethoxy 1,3,5 triazin 2 yl aminothioxo methyl 1 2 methoxycarbonylbenzenesulfonamide A A mixture of 4.2 g of methyl 2 sulfamoyl benzoÅate, 4.0 g of 4,6 dimethoxy 2 isothiocyanato 1,3,5 triazine and 2.7 g of anhydrous potassium car bonate in 70 ml of acetone was warmed to 400 with stirring. After 2 hours a thick precipitate formed and stirring was continued for three more hours at ambient temperature. The precipitate was removed by filtration, suspended in 150 ml of water, stirred and the pH ad justed to 2 by the addition of hydrochloric acid. The desired product was removed by filtration washed with cold water and dried to yield 4.8 g of product melting at 165 170 . It showed infrared ab sorption peaks at 1760, 1650 and 1600 cm 1 and nuclear magnetic resonance peaks for the methoxy groups at 4.0 and 3.8 singlets and 8.0 8.7 multiplet con sistent for the desired product. EXAMPLE 13Methyl 2 4 1 carboxyethoxy 6 methyl 1,3,5 triazin 2 yl aminocarbonyl aminosulfonyl benzoate Methyl 2 isocwanatosulfonyl benzoate 10.1 g and 8.0 g of ethyl 2 4 amino 6 methyl 1,3,5 triazin 2 yl oxylpropanoate were stirred in 80 ml of methylene chloride at ambient temperature for 18 hours. An additional 2 g of the sulfonylisocyanate was added and the reaction mixture was stirred for four more hours and then 2 g more of the sulfonylisocyanate was added. After stirring for four more hours at ambient temperature, 400 ml of water was added and the pH of this mixture was adjusted to pH 8 by the addition of 10 aqueous sodium hydroxide.The aqueous phase was separated and acidified to pH 1 with hydrochloric acid to precipitate a thick white gum. Sufficient 50 aqueous sodium hydroxide was added to achieve pH 12 and the mixture was heated on a steam bath until a clear solution resulted. The solution was again acidifled with hydrochloric acid to pH 3 and the resultant cloudy solution was extracted with dichloromethane.The organic phase was dried and the solvent was removed to afford 3.7 g of the title compound as a glass. By using the procedures of Examples 1 to 13, or the methods described herein, the compounds of TablesI to IX may be prepared. Table IEMI36.1 EMI36.2 tb SEP SEP B SEP W SEP B SEP X SEP Y tb SEP QB SEP 2 SEP R, SEP 3 SEP U SEP R SEP 3 tb SEP 5 tb SEP OCH2C SEP SEP CCH2Br SEP E SEP H SEP SEP H SEP CE3 SEP H tb SEP OCE2C CE SEP 5 SEP H SEP O SEP c SEP H SEP C1 tb NHCE2C CE SEP 5 Cl SEP H SEP O SEP H SEP OC93 SEP 0CE3 tb SCE2C C SEP . SEP 5 3r SEP H SEP O SEP H SEP Cm SEP 3 SEP OCE3 tb SEP g tb SEP OCH2COCH3 SEP 502 SEP H SEP 0 SEP H SEP CE3 SEP OCH3 tb SEP S CH2 5 SEP C CH SEP 5 OCH3 SEP H SEP 0 SEP H SEP C83 SEP OCH3 tb SEP 3 CH3 SEP H SEP O SEP H SEP CH3 SEP Ci tb SEP SCH SEP 2COCH3 tb SEP SCE2C CCH3 SEP 3 i C3H7 SEP H SEP O SEP i SEP C83 SEP OC2R tb SEP N CH2C SEP C CCH3 SEP 3 SCE3 SEP H SEP 0 SEP H SEP CE3 SEP 0Cw3 tb SEP CE tb SEP SCR2C CCX2C1 SEP 5 SEP 3 C1 SEP O SEP H SEP CE3 SEP Or. 3 tb SEP 0 CH CE3 2 SEP 3 Cl SEP 3 Co3 SEP O SEP a SEP C83 SEP OCH3 SEP tb SEP o tEi2 SEP 34 SEP 5 F. SEP 3 Cl SEP 0 SEP 3 SEP SEP OC 3 tb SEP SCH2C SEP C C SEP CH3 SEP 3 SEP 5 Nc2 SEP 3 C1 SEP 0 SEP H SEP CE3 SEP oc 23 tb SEP Br SEP 5 Br SEP 3 Br SEP 0 SEP E SEP CEi SEP OC .3 tb SEP Br tb SEP SEP 2 SEP g,,,a SEP CEI, SEP CH tb SEP CcH2 SEP a SEP H SEP S SEP H SEP .2 tb SEP N CH2 3C SEP CH SEP H SEP s SEP O SEP CH3 SEP 0CH3 SEP OCH3 tb SEP CH CH3 SEP 2 tb SEP OCH2C SEP SEP CCH2 SEP F SEP CH SEP F SEP H SEP H SEP SEP CH3 SEP CH3 SEP CH3 tb Table I cont d EMI37.1 tb SEP QR SEP R2 SEP R3 SEP W SEP B5 SEP X SEP Y tb SEP SCH2C CCH2 SEP CH3 SEP S C1 SEP H SEP 0 SEP C SEP SEP CH tb SEP 0 tb SEP S CH COC2H5 SEP 6 C1 SEP H SEP O SEP CH3 SEP 0CH3 SEP CC2H5 tb SEP CH3 SEP tb SEP C SEP 2 4 SEP 3z SEP 3 CH3 SEP H SEP O SEP CH3 SEP CCH3 SEP OCE3 tb SEP SCH2C SEP C SEP CH2 6CE3 SEP i SEP H SEP 0 SEP H SEP CE3 SEP SCE2COOCE3 tb NH CH2 3C CH SEP H SEP O SEP H SEP i SEP CE3 SEP S CBZ 20CH3 tb SEP H SEP B SEP O SEP H SEP CEJ SEP SCH2CH3 tb SEP S SEP 1 tb SEP C1 SEP . tb SEP SCH2C SEP CCH2Br SEP 4 C1 SEP H SEP O SEP H SEP OCH3 SEP CH3 tb SEP O SEP ç SEP 2H5 SEP 2 SEP H SEP O SEP H SEP OCE3 SEP OCH3 tb SEP ,C SEP CH3 2C SEP 2 SEP CH2 SEP 4 C1 SEP 5 C1 SEP 0 SEP H SEP 3 SEP CH3 tb SEP CH3 tb SEP OCH2OCH3 SEP 4 C1 SEP 5 C1 SEP 0 SEP H SEP 3 SEP OCR3 tb SEP OCH20CH2CH20CH2CE3 SEP 4 F SEP H SEP O SEP H SEP OCR3 SEP 3 tb SEP OCH SEP 9 SEP r SEP 4 Br SEP H SEP O SEP H SEP OCR3 SEP CR3 tb SEP Br tb Table I cont d EMI38.1 tb SEP QR SEP R2 SEP R3 SEP W SEP Rs SEP X SEP Y tb SEP L SEP I tb SEP H SEP H SEP O SEP H SEP o SEP a SEP CE3 SEP OCX2CE SEP 3 tb SEP 0 tb oCa24 SEP H SEP H SEP 0 SEP H SEP CE3 SEP 0CR tb SEP O SEP C2H5 tb SEP SCH2C s SEP CCH2C1 SEP H SEP H SEP 6 SEP CB3 SEP OCBZCS tb SEP C2H5 tb EMI38.2 tb SEP C2H3 tb ocaz0CO SEP H SEP H SEP o SEP H SEP CH3 SEP OCH tb SEP C2H5 tb SEP 9, SEP CH2 3CH3 tb 0CH2OCH2CC13 SEP H SEP H SEP OH SEP CH3 SEP OCE2CN SEP tb SEP H tb SEP O SEP cue3 tb NSChC SEP H SEP H SEP 3 SEP O SEP H SEP 0CH3 SEP OCH2CN OCa.3 tb SEP OCP.3 tb EMI38.3 tb SEP 0 tb N SEP CH SEP C SEP SEP CCE SEP H SEP H SEP o SEP H SEP rH3 SEP CE2CR2 tb C2H5 tb OCH2 SEP QCR2CR2OCH2 SEP SEP F SEP H SEP 0 SEP H SEP OCE3 SEP OCH3 tb SEP 0 tb SEP n SEP E SEP 11 SEP 0 SEP E SEP CH SEP OCE2CF3 tb SEP OCH,COCH3 SEP H SEP H SEP 0 SEP H SEP CH3 SEP OCH2Cr3 tb SEP SEP CER tb Table I cont d EMI39.1 tb SEP QR SEP R2 SEP R3 SEP W SEP K5 SEP X tb SEP 5 tb SEP 0 tb scacDc3 SEP H SEP H SEP o SEP H SEP CR SEP OCHC02CH3 tb SEP ca3 SEP CH3 tb SEP CR3 tb SEP OCH20CH3 SEP H SEP H SEP o SEP H SEP CH3 SEP OCR2CO2CR3 tb CE2 SEP SEP H SEP H SEP O SEP H SEP CX3 SEP CH20CH3 tb SEP 0CR20CR2CR2C1 SEP H SEP H SEP O SEP CH3 SEP ca3 SEP CR3 tb NH SEP CR2 3 SEP S SEP H SEP H SEP o SEP H SEP CR3 SEP OCH2CE20Ch3 tb 2 SEP 9 SEP C2 SEP H5 SEP H SEP H SEP SEP H SEP CH3 SEP S3 tb SEP 25 tb SEP 07 tb SEP C SEP 2 SEP 4o SEP H SEP H SEP O SEP H SEP OCH3CH20CH3 SEP OCH2CH2 SEP 3 tb SEP Br tb SEP OCH2CECCHCH3 SEP H SEP H SEP o SEP H SEP OCR3 SEP n C SEP 3H7 tb SEP 0CR20CH2 CR20CR3 SEP H SEP E SEP O SEP H SEP OCH.3 SEP 0CR2CE20C3 tb SEP OCH2C SEP CR SEP CCH2CHZi SEP E SEP SEP H SEP O SEP H SEP OCU3 SEP CH2 2CN tb SEP OCH20CH2CC13 SEP n SEP H SEP O SEP E SEP OCR3 SEP CH2CH2CR20CR SEP 2CH3 tb SEP 0CR2OCR SEP CR SEP Cl SEP F. SEP H SEP o SEP H SEP OCH3 SEP NHCH2CO2CH3 tb SEP ca SEP CH3 2 tb SEP X SEP CR CCH33 22 SEP E SEP H SEP o SEP H SEP O OCCHH33 SEP CH2CO2CH3 tb SEP 0CR2 CR2 3CH3 SEP CC1, SEP 3 tb SEP 0 tb SEP tr tb SEP SCB SEP COCE3 tb SEP CH3 SEP SEP H SEP o SEP H SEP CH3 SEP cH2 3cH tb SEP SCH2C SEP 3 SEP CCH2CH2C1 SEP E SEP H SEP 0 SEP H SEP SOCH3 SEP CR2CC CR3 tb SEP NH SEP CR SEP C CCH3 SEP H SEP H SEP O SEP i SEP OCH SEP CH2CwC CU2C tb SEP 2 SEP CH2Cr SEP CH3 SEP 3 tb SEP NH SEP CR2CCH SEP E SEP H SEP O SEP R SEP OCR SEP 3 SEP WH n C4X9 tb SEP NCR2C CR SEP 8 SEP o SEP B SEP OCR3 tb SEP CE3 tb Table 1 cont d EMI40.1 tb SEP QR SEP R2 SEP R3 SEP W SEP K5 SEP X SEP y tb SEP 3 tb N, SEP CE2 4C SEP SEP CE SEP SEP o SEP H SEP OCE3 SEP N CR3 2 tb CH2CE SEP SEP CR2 tb O CE2 4C SEP SEP CE SEP H SEP E SEP o SEP E SEP OCE3 SEP SEP ARCH3 tb SEP cac4 2 SEP H SEP O SEP H SEP NC,H, tb oCa2o SEP H SEP 0 SEP H SEP ca3 SEP 3 SEP NCR1C32H5 tb SEP CE CH3 2 tb SEP OCE tb SEP SEP 3 SEP H SEP H SEP O SEP H SEP OC83 SEP SEP OCH 2CE2Br SEP . tb SEP OCR3 tb 0CH20CE2CE23 SEP OCE SEP H SEP H SEP o SEP H tb OCH2C CH SEP SEP H SEP H SEP o SEP H SEP CH3 SEP B9 tb OCR2C CCR2CI SEP H SEP g SEP 0 SEP K SEP CE3 SEP OCE2CCI3 tb SCH2C CCH2C1 SEP H SEP H SEP O SEP H SEP CE3 SEP oC82Ca2C82CS tb SEP 0 SEP 9 SEP CH3 SEP H SEP H SEP O SEP H SEP CH3 SEP OCE2CR CR2 tb SEP Br tb SEP N1CH2C CH SEP H SEP H SEP O SEP H SEP ca3 SEP SCR, C02CH3 tb SEP CH3 SEP CH3 tb SEP 0CH2C CH SEP H SEP H SEP 0 SEP H SEP ca3 SEP 0CR2C02n C6R13 tb SEP 0CE20CR2CR3 SEP H SEP H SEP O SEP H SEP CE3 SEP SCH2CR2CO2n C6R13 tb SEP SCR2C C CE2 5CH3 SEP H SEP .H SEP O SEP H SEP CR3 SEP OCH2CH20CE3 tb SEP N, SEP CE2 SEP 3C CCH3 SEP H SEP H SEP o SEP H SEP ca3 SEP SCa2Ca2SCa3 tb SEP CE SEP 0 tb SEP N CE2 4C,CE SEP H SEP H SEP O SEP H SEP CE3 SEP SCE2CH2SCE3 tb SEP C83 SEP O tb SEP OCE20CE CE3 2 SEP H SEP H SEP O SEP H SEP Ca3 SEP SCE2C83 tb SEP 0CE20CR2C SEP Cl3 SEP H SEP H SEP o SEP H SEP CR3 SEP SCR2CHCR tb SEP OCE20CE2CH20C83 SEP H SEP SEP H SEP O SEP H SEP CR3 SEP CR3 SEP m.p.56 58 C. tb SEP Oc82c SEP CCE2Cl SEP H SEP H SEP o SEP H SEP CR3 SEP OCR3 SEP m.p.183 185 C tb SEP 0CR20CR2CR20CR3 SEP H SEP H SEP O SEP H SEP OCH3 SEP OCR3 SEP m.p.123 1240C tb Table 1 cont d EMI41.1 tb SEP QR SEP R2 SEP R3 SEP W SEP R5 SEP X SEP Y SEP m.p. tb SEP 2 tb SEP CH3 tb SEP H SEP SEP H SEP O SEP O SEP H SEP CH3 SEP OCR3 tb SEP CH3 tb SCH2C Ca2 3CH3 SEP 4 C1 SEP H SEP o SEP H SEP OCR3 SEP OCR3 tb SCR SEP 2C CR SEP 4 C1 SEP H SEP O SEP H SEP CR3 SEP OCR3 tb OCH2 SEP w SEP CH3 SEP H SEP H SEP O SEP H SEP CE3 SEP N CH3 2 tb OCR SEP 20mC0l SEP H SEP H SEP O SEP H SEP CR3 SEP CR3 SEP 185 186 tb SEP OCR3 SEP 5 Cl SEP S SEP o SEP H SEP OCE3 SEP F tb SEP OCH3 SEP 5 Br SEP H SEP O SEP H SEP CR3 SEP Br tb SEP 0 tb SEP OCR3 SEP 5 NO2 SEP H SEP O SEP H SEP CH3 SEP COR tb SEP 0 tb SEP OCR3 SEP 5 OCR3 SEP H SEP O SEP H SEP CH3 SEP CNH2 tb SEP 0 tb SEP OCR3 SEP 5 SCH3 SEP H SEP O SEP H SEP CR3 SEP CNHCR3 tb SEP 0 tb SEP OCR3 SEP 5 C1 SEP 3 C1 SEP O SEP H SEP CH3 SEP CNHC2H5 tb SEP 0 tb SEP OCR SEP 5 C1 SEP 3 CR SEP O SEP H SEP CH3 SEP CNHCH2CH2CH3 tb SEP 3 SEP 3 SEP 3 tb SEP 0 tb SEP OCR3 SEP 5 F SEP 3 C1 SEP O SEP H SEP CH3 SEP CNRCR CR3 2 tb SEP 0 tb SEP .. tb SEP OCR3 SEP 5 N02 SEP 3 C1 SEP O SEP H SEP CH3 SEP CNE CR2 3CR3 tb SEP 0 tb SEP OCR3 SEP 5 Br SEP 3 Br SEP O SEP H SEP CH3 tb SEP o tb SEP OCR3 SEP H SEP H SEP 3 SEP CR3 SEP OCR3 SEP CNHCR2CH SEP CR3 2 tb SEP 0,, SEP CH3 tb SEP II tb SEP OC SEP 2H5 SEP H SEP H SEP O SEP CR3 SEP OCR3 SEP CNH CRCR2CR3 tb Table 1 cont d EMI42.1 tb SEP QR SEP R2 SEP R3 SEP W SEP R5 SEP X SEP y tb SEP L tb SEP 0 tb OCR SEP 3 CE SEP H SEP 0 SEP CE SEP OCR SEP CN CR3 2 tb SEP 3 SEP 3 SEP 3 SEP 3 tb SEP 0 tb SEP It tb SEP 0 CR, SEP CR2 SEP CR3 SEP H SEP H SEP O SEP H SEP OCE3 SEP OCR2COH tb SEP CR3 tb SEP 0 tb SEP ft tb SEP OCH2CH2C1 SEP H SEP H SEP O SEP H SEP OCE3 SEP C N1CR2CR2CR3 tb SEP CH3 tb SEP 9 tb SEP O n C3H7 SEP H SEP H SEP O SEP H SEP OCR3 SEP OCH COH tb SEP CH3 tb SEP 0 tb SEP 1 tb SEP OCH3 SEP H SEP H SEP O SEP H SEP OCR3 SEP CN CE2 3CE3 tb SEP CH3 tb SEP 0 tb SEP C2E5 SEP H SEP H SEP O SEP H SEP OCH3 SEP CNCH2CH CH3 2 tb SEP CH3 tb SEP 0 tb SEP t tb SEP OCH3 SEP 4 C1 SEP H SEP O SEP H SEP OCR3 SEP C2Hg 2 tb SEP o tb SEP 0 i C3H7 SEP H SEP H SEP O SEP H SEP OCH3 SEP oCH2ca2coH tb SEP 0 tb SEP tt tb SEP O n C3H7 SEP H SEP H SEP O SEP H SEP OCH3 SEP C ca2cH2cH2cH3 2 tb SEP o tb SEP 9 tb SEP C2E5 SEP H SEP H SEP O SEP H SEP OCR3 SEP CN,0CR3 tb SEP CH3 tb SEP 0 tb SEP OCH3 SEP 4 C1 SEP S C1 SEP O SEP H SEP OCH. SEP COCH3 tb SEP 0 tb SEP OCH,CH2CH3 SEP H SEP H SEP O SEP H SEP CE3 SEP COC2H5 tb SEP CS2CX tb Table I cont d EMI43.1 tb SEP QR SEP R2 SEP R3 SEP W SEP R5 SEP X tb SEP 0 tb SEP H2CR Cr3 2 SEP H SEP H SEP O SEP H SEP OCR3 SEP COCR2CR2CR3 tb SEP 0 tb SEP OCH2CR2CR CH3 2 SEP H SEP H SEP SEP H SEP 1 tb SEP 9 tb SEP OCR3 SEP 4 F SEP H SEP O SEP B SEP OCR3 SEP CO CR2 3CR3 tb SEP ., tb SEP 0CR2CH20CR2CH3 SEP H SEP H SEP O SEP H SEP OCR3 SEP SEP C SEP OCH SEP 2 SEP CH SEP SEP CH SEP 3 SEP tb SEP O tb SEP O CB2 1lCX3 SEP H SEP H SEP O SEP H SEP Cur3 SEP C OCH SEP CR tb SEP OCX SEP CH3 SEP H SEP H SEP O SEP H SEP CH3 SEP ,, SEP 23 tb SEP CR3 SEP CO 0CR2 5CR3 tb ocH cH cH cH2 2c 3 SEP H SEP g SEP O SEP H SEP CH3 SEP CB2COH tb SEP C2R5 SEP 0 tb SEP 25 SEP 0 tb SEP OCH CX2 7CH3 SEP H SEP H SEP o SEP H SEP CH3 SEP CH2CH2COH tb SEP CB2CB2CB3 tb OC2C, CRcR CR3 2 SEP H SEP H SEP O SEP E SEP CH3 SEP CE COH tb SEP Cl SEP CR3 SEP 0 tb SEP 3 SEP tb OCH SEP CE CC1 SEP B SEP HOH SEP CH3 SEP CH2CH2CH31 tb SEP 2 SEP 0 tb SEP SEP H SEP g SEP O SEP B SEP CH3 SEP CB SEP IHCOH tb SEP CH, SEP CR3 tb SEP OCBCRICBr SEP H SEP R SEP O SEP H SEP CH3 SEP SEP 9 SEP COH tb SEP 2 tb SEP CB3 SEP CH3 tb SEP 0 tb SEP 0 CR2 CR3 SEP H SEP H SEP 0 SEP H SEP OCi3 SEP CR SEP CR SEP CR SEP CR tb SEP 243 tb SEP 0 CR2 SEP 5CR3 SEP H SEP H SEP 0 SEP z SEP OCR3 SEP CH2CCOH tb SEP CH3 tb Table I cont d EMI44.1 SEP QR SEP W SEP R tb SEP h SEP h SEP w SEP BS SEP x tb SEP 0 tb SEP H SEP s SEP El SEP O SEP H SEP Col3 SEP CHfC 0CR3 tb SEP CS tb SEP 3 SEP O tb SEP oC CR3 3 SEP H SEP H SEP O SEP H SEP CR3 SEP CE2,C 0CR3 tb SEP o tb SEP o SEP CE SEP H SEP H SEP 0 SEP H SEP CR SEP IT tb SEP 25 SEP 3 SEP CH, SEP COB,. tb SEP 0 tb SEP oCl SEP H SEP X SEP H SEP O SEP H SEP CE3 SEP C cOcH3 tb SEP 0 tb SEP o tb SEP 25 SEP i2 5wa SEP H SEP H SEP O SEP H SEP CH3 SEP CR2 SEP CNE2 tb SEP 0 tb SEP CH2 0 SEP H SEP H SEP O SEP H SEP CH3 SEP CR2 21CNH 2 tb SEP 0 tb SEP CH2 SEP H SEP H SEP O SEP H SEP El SEP cH3 SEP cx2cEca3 tb SEP 0 tb SEP OCH2CH CH2 SEP H SEP H SEP SEP H SEP OCR3 SEP CR CNH2 tb SEP CX3 tb CE2CB2 SEP O SEP H SEP H SEP 0 SEP H SEP OCH3 SEP SEP C tb SEP L SEP .L tb oCH20C2H4Cl SEP H SEP H SEP 0 SEP H SEP CHO SEP CR20b NR CH2 3CH3 tb SEP L SEP U tb SEP 0 tb SEP II tb SEP OCH3 SEP H SEP H SEP O SEP H SEP OCHj SEP CR2 4OCR2CR2CR3 tb SEP o tb SEP ll tb OCR3 SEP H SEP H SEP O SEP H SEP OCR3 SEP CE2 4CO CE2 5CE3 tb SEP 0 tb SEP .. tb OCR3 SEP R SEP H SEP o SEP H SEP OCR3 SEP CR2 4CNH2 tb Table I continued EMI45.1 tb SEP QR SEP R2 SEP R3 SEP U SEP R5 SEP X SEP Y tb SEP 0 tb SEP ocH2CH2oCH3 SEP H SEP R SEP 0 SEP H SEP OCR3 SEP CR2CNRCR CR3 2 tb SEP O tb SEP UCH3 SEP 5 CF3 SEP H SEP o SEP H SEP CH3 SEP CR2CN CR3 2 tb SEP q tb SEP OCR3 SEP 5 N CE3 2 SEP H SEP O SEP H SEP CR3 SEP CRCR3 tb SEP CH3 tb SEP 0 tb SEP OCR3 SEP 5 SO2CH3 SEP H SEP O SEP H SEP CR3 SEP CH2zNR 2 ,3 tb SEP o tb OCR3 SEP 5 CN SEP H SEP 0 SEP H SEP CH3 SEP SEP CR2 4CNH CR2 3CR3 tb SEP p, tb OCR3 SEP 5 NX2 SEP H SEP O SEP H SEP CH3 SEP CR2 4CNHCR3 tb SEP O CH2 SEP CH3 SEP H SEP H SEP O SEP H SEP OCH3 SEP cE2 3cE cH3 2 tb SEP 0 tb 1 tb OCH.3 SEP H SEP H SEP O SEP H SEP tB SEP tb SEP 3 tb SEP OCH SEP 4 SEP H SEP H SEP O SEP H SEP CB3 tb SEP CE SEP CE3 2 tb SEP 0 tb SEP OCH SEP H SEP H SEP O SEP H SEP CH3 SEP CH2 4CNt CH2 3CH3 2 tb SEP 3 tb SEP 0 tb SEP OCH CH3 2 SEP H SEP z SEP O SEP H SEP CH3 SEP C, CN CR2 3CR3 2 tb SEP CR3 tb SEP CE30 tb SEP OCR2 SEP CR3 SEP H SEP H SEP O SEP 13 SEP CH3 SEP ca2c SEP CN CH3 2 tb SEP CH3 tb SEP OCR SEP SEP B SEP R SEP O SEP H SEP CB3 tb SEP C1 tb SEP Cl tb SEP OCR2CR CR3 2 SEP H SEP H SEP O SEP H SEP CH3 SEP COUCH3 tb Table 1 continued EMI46.1 tb SEP R tb SEP QR SEP 2 SEP 3 SEP U SEP S SEP X SEP yR9 tb 0CE2CR20CR3 SEP R SEP H SEP O SEP H SEP C113NI C82 SEP C83 SEP SEP 2 5CH3 tb O Cwd2CX2o 2C2H4cl SEP H SEP g SEP O SEP H SEP CE3 SEP S CR0CoR tb SEP .GCH2 SEP H SEP H SEP O SEP B SEP OCE SEP CR3 tb SEP 5 SEP 3 SEP cm3 tb SEP H. SEP H SEP R. SEP R SEP O SEP H SEP OCH3 SEP NECH2COH tb SEP 2 tb SEP 0 tb SEP OCH2CH CH2 SEP 5 Cl SEP i SEP 0 SEP H SEP OCR3 SEP NE CR2 4CNE2 tb SEP CR SEP tO tb SEP OCE2 C CH2 SEP H SEP H SEP O SEP H SEP OCH SEP N CH2 3C OCH3 tb SEP CH3 tb SEP 0 tb SEP C d3 SEP tb SEP OCH SEP C CE2 SEP H SEP H SEP O SEP H SEP CE SEP N, SEP CR, SEP CNECR3 tb SEP CR3CR3 tb SEP o tb SEP SEP o SEP B SEP ocz SEP Cs2cnaca3 tb SEP H3C SEP 0CR SEP CR SEP 2C11NECR3 tb SEP 3 SEP CR3 tb SEP CCR2 SEP H SEP H SEP 0 SEP H SEP OCR tb SEP 3 SEP H SEP O SEP 8 SEP OCH3 SEP N, CR2 4CN CR3 2 tb SEP cE3 SEP cE3 SEP o tb SEP H SEP 8 SEP E SEP H SEP O SEP H SEP OCH3 SEP N,CR2C N C2E5 2 tb SEP s SEP Ca3 SEP C83 tb SEP o tb SEP 1 tb SEP OCR SEP CR SEP H SEP H SEP O SEP H SEP OCE3 SEP N ca2 4C H tb SEP .2 tb SEP 0 tb SEP 2 SEP SEP C Cs SEP H SEP H SEP O SEP H SEP CH3 SEP N C82 3Co8 tb SEP 2 SEP CR3 SEP 1 tb SEP O i C3H7 SEP 5 C1 SEP H SEP O SEP H SEP OCH SEP N SEP GE2CNE2 tb SEP cE3 tb SEP C fl SEP 0 tb SEP 3 tb SEP O i C3H7 SEP 5 C1 SEP H SEP O SEP H SEP CH3 SEP NHCR2CRCE2COH tb Table 1 continued EMI47.1 tb SEP R SEP R2 SEP R3 SEP W SEP R5 SEP X SEP Y tb SEP 0 tb SEP OCH SEP 5 N02 SEP H SEP O SEP H SEP CR3 SEP NRCR2C9O CR2 2 SEP SEP 2 2 SEP 3CR3 tb SEP .. SEP .. tb SEP OCH3 SEP 5 N02 SEP H SEP O SEP H SEP OCR3 SEP SHCH2CH2CD C82 5CS3 tb SEP 0 tb SEP OCB3 SEP 5 NH2 SEP H SEP O SEP H SEP CR3 SEP CR SEP tb SEP 2 SEP 24 tb SEP CH3 tb SEP 0 tb SEP OCH3 SEP 5NH2 SEP H SEP O SEP H SEP OCH3 SEP N CR CO CR2 5CR3 tb SEP CE3 SEP CH3 tb SEP 0 CEI tb .E num S5 SEP H SEP H SEP 0 SEP H SEP OCR3 SEP F tb SEP SO tb 2 SEP 4 SEP 0 SEP H SEP H SEP O SEP H SEP OCH3 SEP Br tb SEP 0 tb SEP OCHCH2OCHCH3 SEP H SEP H SEP O SEP H SEP OCR3 SEP COH tb SEP 3 tb SEP CR SEP CR tb SEP 3 SEP 3 tb SEP OCHCH20CE2CC13 SEP H SEP H SEP O SEP H SEP OCH3 SEP CH2COR tb SEP CR3 SEP o tb SEP OCH3 SEP H SEP B SEP O SEP H SEP OCR3 SEP CH2 4CN CH3 2 tb SEP o tb SEP CH2CH20 2 SEP H SEP H SEP O SEP O SEP H SEP OCH3 SEP CR SEP 2C,RO0H tb SEP CH3,o, tb SEP OCR3 SEP H SEP H SEP O SEP H SEP OCH3 SEP CR2CCR2COCR CR3 2 tb SEP CR2 tb SEP 0 tb SEP OCH2CH3 SEP H SEP SEP H SEP O SEP H SEP OCH3 SEP CH2CH2CNOCH3 tb SEP CH3 tb SEP OCA2CH2CR2 SEP OCR3 SEP H SEP H SEP O SEP H SEP OCH3 SEP NH tb SEP ss SEP H SEP H SEP O SEP H SEP OCR3 SEP NiCH3 2 tb Table 1 cont d EMI48.1 tb SEP QR SEP B2 SEP R3 SEP W SEP R SEP X tb SEP CN tb SEP I SEP 3 tb SEP O CH SEP SEP H SEP SEP O SEP H SEP OCH3 SEP N tb SEP CE3 tb SEP O CH2 SEP 2 C, CCl2 SEP H SEP HE SEP O SEP H SEP OCH3 tb SEP Cl SEP 3 SEP 0 tb SEP cl SEP o tb SEP OCH,CCH SEP B SEP H SEP O SEP co SEP OCR2CR2COH tb SEP OCH2C CH SEP H SEP s SEP O SEP 3 SEP 2 SEP 2 tb SEP 0 tb SEP 1 tb OCR2C CE SEP H SEP H SEP O SEP CH3 SEP OCECOH tb SEP CH3 tb SEP 0 tb O2C CCR3 SEP H SEP H SEP O SEP 0CH3 SEP SCR2b 0H tb SEP 1 tb SEP II tb OCR2C CCR2CI SEP H SEP H SEP O SEP CH3 SEP COH tb SEP 0 tb 0CR20CR2CR20CR3 SEP H SEP H SEP O SEP CR3 SEP CNE2 tb SEP 0 tb SEP H SEP H SEP O SEP OCE3 SEP CR2CR2C 0H tb SEP Q SEP t tb OCHCOCH3 SEP H SEP H SEP O SEP CR3 SEP CR,COH tb SEP CR3 SEP CR3 tb SEP 3 tb SEP 0 tb SEP 1t tb OCH2OmaCl SEP H SEP H SEP O SEP OCH3 SEP CH2CoCH2CH3 tb SEP 0 tb SEP il tb SCR2C C CH3 SEP H SEP H SEP O SEP OCR3 SEP NECH COH tb SEP CH3 tb SEP 0 SEP 0 tb SEP n SEP 11 tb SEP I SEP H SEP H SEP O SEP CR SEP CNCB3 tb OCH,C0C2H5 SEP 3 tb SEP CR3 SEP OCR3 tb SEP 0 tb SEP ll tb SEP Omo SEP H SEP H SEP 0 SEP CR3 SEP CN CH3 2 tb Table I cont d EMI49.1 tb SEP QR SEP R2 SEP R3 SEP W SEP R3 SEP X tb SEP 0 tb SEP OCR SEP OCR2CR3 SEP H SEP H SEP O SEP H SEP OCR SEP CNHC2H tb SEP 2 SEP 3 SEP 25 tb SEP 0 tb OCH2C C CH2 óCH3 SEP H SEP H SEP O SEP H SEP OCR3 SEP COC2R5 tb 0 num Q03 SEP H SEP H SEP O SEP H SEP CH3 SEP Br tb SEP a SEP H SEP H SEP O SEP H SEP CEI3 SEP 0 tb O4 SEP SEP H SEP H SEP O SEP H SEP CH3 SEP CNHCH2CH3 tb SEP 0 tb SEP tb OCH SEP C C SEP H SEP H SEP H SEP O SEP H SEP OCR3 SEP CN CR2CR CR3 2 2 tb SEP 0 tb SEP ll tb OCH2C C CH2 3Br SEP u SEP H SEP O SEP Hl SEP OCH3 SEP COCR2CR3 tb SEP 0 tb OCR20CR2CR20CE3 SEP H SEP H SEP O SEP H SEP CH3 SEP CH2 4CN22 tb SEP 0 tb OCH20CH2CH2C1 SEP H SEP H SEP O SEP H SEP CH3 SEP CH2 3CN CE3 2 tb OCR2OCR CR3 2 SEP H SEP H SEP O SEP H SEP OCR3 SEP N, SEP CR2 SEP 5CR3 tb SEP CH3 tb SEP 0 tb OCR SEP 4 SEP OCH3 SEP OCH3 SEP H SEP H SEP O SEP H SEP OCR3 SEP N CH2 3CNH2 tb SEP 2 SEP 3 SEP H tb SEP 0 tb SEP ll tb OCH20CH2CC13 SEP H SEP H SEP O SEP H SEP CH3 SEP N, CR2 3C0 CR2 2CR3 tb SEP CH3 tb Table IIEMI50.1 EMI50.2 tb SEP QR SEP n SEP a, SEP UESIX, SEP X SEP P tb omE0QR3 SEP H SEP a SEP IZ SEP s SEP CR3 SEP CH3 SEP T tb OCH2CRE SEP E SEP O SEP H SEP CE3 SEP OCE3 SEP 0CE3 tb SEP 3 tb OCR2C CCR3 SEP H SEP H SEP OH SEP H SEP H SEP H tb OCaZCCR 3 SEP H SEP S SEP H SEP H SEP H tb OCE20CH3 SEP 3 C1 SEP H SEP O SEP H SEP H SEP CE SEP OCEL tb SEP 3 tb OCE3r SEP H SEP Br SEP 3 CEX SEP a SEP O SEP E SEP E SEP OCE3 SEP OCE3 tb SEP I tb SEP C1 tb SEP OCH SEP CECCE2 SEP 5 F SEP a SEP 0 SEP H SEP H SEP OCE3 SEP C 2 2c SEP SEP 2 tb SEP OCR2C C CH2 6CR3 SEP 5 SEP H SEP SEP R SEP 3 SEP OCH3 SEP OCS3 tb SEP oCE2C EE SEP FP SEP H SEP 3 SEP 3 SEP CII, SEP CB, tb SEP OCs2C ccE2cl SEP SC1 SEP H SEP o SEP H SEP CE SEP N CB, SEP 0 tb SEP 3 SEP 3 SEP N 3 2 tb SEP CR3 tb SEP 5 CIi, SEP H SEP H SEP O SEP a SEP 8 SEP G3 SEP CCH3 tb SEP CH3 tb SEP H SEP H SEP O SEP H SEP O SEP a SEP g SEP SEP 3 tb SEP OC CE3 2C SEP H SEP H SEP 0 SEP H SEP H SEP OCBj SEP SCH2cOcCH3 tb SEP SEP t2 SEP 8 SEP oc SEP s ca2 2ocH3 tb SEP OCE20CH3 SEP 4 C1 SEP H SEP O SEP H SEP U SEP OCES SEP OCR2CR2OCR2CR3 tb SEP CE SEP CE tb SEP 0 20 SEP 2 SEP 3 SEP 4 cl SEP 5 Cl SEP 0 SEP a SEP H SEP 3 SEP oC83 tb Table II cont d EMI51.1 tb SEP QR SEP R2 SEP R3 SEP W SEP R4 SEP R5 SEP X SEP Y tb SEP 5 tb ocE2ocE2cE2ocE3 SEP 4 F SEP ii SEP O SEP H SEP H SEP OCR SEP OCR3 tb OCR2Or SEP Br SEP 4 C1 SEP 5 SEP 5 C1 SEP O SEP H SEP H SEP OCR3 SEP CR3 tb ca2C SEP çH SEP 4 F SEP El SEP o SEP H SEP H SEP OC83 SEP CR3 tb C2E5 SEP C2Hg SEP 4 Br SEP H SEP o SEP H SEP H SEP OCR3 SEP CH3 tb SEP 0 tb SEP OCECOCH3 SEP H SEP B SEP O SEP H SEP H SEP H SEP OCE3 tb SEP 3 tb SEP CH3 tb SEP Br tb SEP Qe. SEP 8 SEP H SEP 0 SEP H SEP H SEP OCR3 SEP n C3H7 tb SEP 0CR20CR3 SEP H SEP H SEP O SEP H SEP H SEP OCR3 SEP CR SEP 2CR2CR2 SEP CR SEP 20CR3 tb SEP 0CR20CR2CR3 SEP H SEP H SEP O SEP H SEP H SEP OCE SEP CR2 SEP CN tb SEP oCH2OCE2CE2Cl SEP H SEP H SEP o SEP H SEP H SEP OCR3 SEP CR2CR2CN tb SEP OCR2OCR2CCl3 SEP H SEP H SEP O SEP H SEP H SEP OCR3 SEP CH2 SEP 3CU tb SEP 23 tb SEP 0CR20CR2CR20CR3 SEP H SEP E SEP o SEP H SEP H SEP OCR3 SEP SEP CE2 SEP 4CO2CE3 tb SEP OCH20CH2CH3 SEP E SEP E SEP O SEP H SEP 8 SEP OCR3 SEP KH2CE2C1 tb SEP OCEI2ClI2CE2C CCE3 SEP H SEP SEP O SEP H SEP 8 SEP OCR3 SEP CR SEP SEP 3Br tb SEP 23 tb SEP oCE2C CE3 2C CCE3 SEP H SEP H SEP û SEP H SEP H SEP OCR3 SEP CR2CR CH2 tb SEP oCE2C C SEP CH3 SEP H SEP H SEP 0 SEP H SEP H SEP OCR3 SEP C SEP CsCC83 tb SEP H SEP E3 SEP H SEP II SEP O SEP 8 SEP H SEP OCR3 SEP NB SEP nq3a7 tb SEP Br tb SEP CE3 tb SEP 3 SEP 23 tb SEP SEP 0C2H5 SEP H SEP II SEP O SEP H SEP H SEP OCR3 SEP CR SEP 2C02CR3 tb SEP OC2H5 SEP H tb SEP s SEP ç SEP C1 SEP H SEP E SEP o SEP H SEP H SEP oca3 SEP NRCR2CR20CH3 tb Table II cont d EMI52.1 tb SEP QR SEP h SEP R3 SEP W SEP R5 SEP t SEP y SEP X tb SEP O SEP tb S CXC s3 SEP H SEP a SEP H SEP H SEP a SEP OCR3 tb SEP 3 tb SEP CR3 tb N , Ca2 4C CE SEP a SEP a SEP o SEP a SEP R SEP CR3 SEP SCAR3 tb CR2CR CR2 tb NCR SEP CECH SEP H SEP H SEP O SEP H SEP a SEP 0CR2CH3 SEP CR3 tb CR2CR SEP 2 tb SEP OCR2CR2C CH SEP H SEP H SEP o SEP H SEP H SEP CH3 SEP S CE3 2 tb SEP Cf tb SEP c SEP H SEP x SEP o SEP H SEP U SEP OCE3 SEP OCE2CF3 tb SEP OCR2C SEP a2C1 SEP E SEP HO SEP X SEP a SEP OCE3 SEP 0CR2CR20CR3 tb SEP OCR2CECR SEP E SEP X SEP O SEP U SEP 8 SEP OCR3 SEP OCw2C220Ca2CE3 tb OC82C SEP U SEP E SEP O SEP O SEP H SEP U SEP C1 SEP Cl tb SEP C1 tb Ca2 SEP SEP H SEP X SEP O SEP H SEP E SEP CE3 SEP OCR2CSE2 tb SEP H SEP U SEP 0 SEP H SEP H SEP CR3 SEP CE tb SEP C1 SEP o SEP SEP CE3 tb SEP 3r SEP H SEP E SEP O SEP a SEP R SEP CR3 SEP oCE2cs SEP tb SEP oca2og SEP 0CH2CN. SEP a tb SEP OCH20C2E5 SEP SEP n C4Hg tb SEP 2 SEP 25 SEP , tb SEP E SEP a SEP o SEP E SEP E SEP CR3 SEP 0CE2CY tb SEP O SEP a tb SEP socs3 SEP H SEP H SEP O SEP u SEP H SEP CR3 SEP OCRzCN tb SEP CR3 tb SEP o tb SEP oCE3 SEP H SEP H SEP O SEP H SEP H SEP CH3 SEP ocH2cN n c3H7 tb Table II cont d EMI53.1 tb SEP QR SEP R2 SEP R SEP W SEP W SEP R4 SEP R5 SEP X tb SEP 5 tb SEP 4 SEP 0 SEP 0 tb SEP OCRO tb SEP H SEP H SEP O SEP H SEP CE3 SEP H SEP 22C tb SEP H tb SEP L 6 SEP C SEP OCR tb SEP SEP a SEP ED SEP o SEP a SEP a SEP 3 tb SEP S CR2 3CR3 SEP H SEP H SEP o SEP H SEP H SEP CR3 SEP OCZZZC tb SEP cE3 tb 0CR20CR CR3 2 SEP Ei SEP H SEP 0 SEP H SEP H SEP OCR2CR SEP 20CR3 SEP 0CR2CR20CR3 tb OC820CB2CC13 SEP H SEP H SEP o SEP H SEP H SEP OCE3 SEP CR SEP CR SEP 0CR tb SEP 3 SEP 22 SEP 3 tb 0CR20CR SEP CR SEP C1 SEP H SEP H SEP O SEP H SEP H SEP CEJ SEP CR SEP CR SEP OCR3 tb SEP 22 tb 0CR20CR2CR20CR3 SEP H SEP H SEP o SEP K SEP H SEP CR3 SEP O SEP CR SEP OCR3 tb SCHCOCH2CH3 SEP H SEP H SEP o SEP H SEP H SEP CR3 SEP OCB2CO,CB, tb SEP CH3 tb OCH20CH3 SEP H SEP H SEP o SEP H SEP H SEP CR3 SEP OCR SEP CR SEP 0CR3 tb SEP 3. tb OCR,C0CR3 SEP a SEP H SEP O SEP H SEP H SEP ca3 SEP OCR SEP CF tb SEP 23 tb SEP CH3 tb SEP H SEP H SEP a SEP H SEP o SEP fI SEP CR3 SEP OC a2Ca2oCw3 tb 0CR20CR2CR20CR3 SEP H SEP H SEP o SEP H SEP H SEP CR3 SEP OCR SEP CR tb OCR2C CR SEP E SEP H SEP o SEP a SEP H SEP wE3 SEP OCRCO SEP CR tb 3 SEP , SEP 23 tb SEP cE3 tb SEP N CE3 2ssµcE SEP H SEP H SEP O SEP R SEP H SEP CH3 SEP OCH2 SEP 3 tb SEP cE3 tb 6Th2C CC CR3 3 SEP k SEP H SEP O SEP H SEP H SEP CR3 SEP OCR CR3 2 tb OCH2CECCE2F SEP H SEP Pz SEP O SEP H SEP H SEP CE3 SEP OCR2CR2Cl tb OCR2C CCR2 SEP CR23r SEP H SEP H SEP O SEP H SEP H SEP CR3 SEP OCR2CCl3 tb OCH CH2 3C CH SEP H SEP H SEP 0 SEP H SEP H SEP CR3 SEP OCR2CH2 tb OCH20CH3 SEP H SEP E SEP O SEP H SEP H SEP ca3 SEP OCR2CR CH2 tb Table II continued EMI54.1 tb SEP QR SEP 5 SEP R, SEP w SEP RA SEP R SEP X SEP Y tb SEP S SEP x SEP y tb H SEP t SEP S SEP a SEP 0 SEP H SEP 8 SEP CR3 SEP 0CH2C1R tb SEP 3 tb 0E0Cg3 SEP X SEP R. SEP 0 SEP s SEP 8 SEP CE3 SEP OCE3 tb SEP Cl tb H SEP Br SEP H SEP H SEP O SEP s SEP g SEP CR3 SEP SCR2Co2CEs tb SEP Br tb SEP OCEI20 SEP r SEP H SEP S SEP 0 SEP 8 SEP E SEP CU3 SEP SCE2C82SCH3 tb SEP r tb SEP OC820C82CE3 SEP H SEP 8 SEP 0 SEP 8 SEP H SEP CR3 SEP o cE2 2oca cE 2 tb SEP 0 tb SEP OCR3 SEP 3 SEP H SEP H SEP 0 SEP w3 SEP E SEP CR3 SEP SCk225C33 tb SEP O SEP 0C2E5 SEP 8 SEP E SEP O SEP a SEP s SEP CR3 SEP OCE2CE2ScE3 tb SEP SCE SEP C 8,CE SEP C1 SEP s SEP 8 SEP 0 SEP a SEP a SEP CR3 SEP OCR2CE2sCR CR3 2 tb SEP OCR2OCR2CCl3 SEP 9 SEP 8 SEP 0 SEP 8 SEP R SEP CR3 SEP SCs2CX3 tb SEP oCE2OCU CR3 2 SEP H SEP E SEP O SEP s SEP 8 SEP CR3 SEP SCBZI,CS tb SEP CE2 SEP SEP E SEP 8 SEP 0 SEP s SEP s SEP CR3 SEP SEP SCU2CR CE2 tb SEP oca3 tb SEP CCH2 SEP E SEP U SEP o SEP E SEP E SEP CE3 SEP oCa3 tb SEP ocE3 tb SEP SCE2CECH SEP H SEP a SEP O SEP U SEP U SEP ova3 SEP OCR3 tb SEP SCH2C CCH CE3 2 SEP H SEP E SEP O SEP R SEP H SEP CR3 SEP CH3 tb SEP H tb Table II cont EMI55.1 SEP J SEP SEP B SEP I tb SEP QR SEP N SEP 5 SEP R, SEP W tb SEP OCE3 SEP H SEP H SEP C SEP H SEP H SEP CH3 SEP 0 tb SEP OCHOR tb SEP glass tb SEP CH3 tb SEP o tb SEP O CR2 9CR3 SEP H SEP H SEP O SEP H SEP B SEP OCR3 SEP SCHzCOH tb SEP 0 tb SEP COR tb SEP O n C SEP H SEP H SEP H SEP O SEP H SEP H SEP OCR3 SEP CE2c H tb SEP 0 tb SEP ,. tb SEP O n C SEP H SEP H SEP H SEP O SEP H SEP H SEP OCH SEP OCH2CH2COH tb SEP 0 tb SEP ll tb SEP 2 SEP 5 SEP H SEP H SEP O SEP H SEP H SEP OCR3 SEP SCHCOH tb SEP CH3 tb SEP 0 tb OCR2CR2OCR2CR2Cl SEP H SEP H SEP O SEP H SEP H SEP OCE3 SEP COH tb SEP 0 tb SEP 0 i C3H7 SEP H SEP H SEP O SEP H SEP H SEP CB SEP CR3 tb SEP CNH2 tb SEP 0 tb SEP o tb SEP C3 cE2 7CH3 SEP H SEP H SEP O SEP H SEP H SEP OCH3 SEP CNOCH tb SEP CR3 SEP CR3 tb SEP CH3 tb SEP 0 tb SEP Oc2 CR2 4CR2c1 SEP H SEP H SEP O SEP H SEP H SEP CH3 SEP tb SEP 0 tb SEP 1 tb SEP ll tb SEP OCR2CR2Br SEP H SEP H SEP O SEP H SEP H SEP OCR3 SEP CNH CH2 3CH3 tb SEP o tb SEP ll tb SEP 0 CR2CR20 2C2 SEP H SEP H SEP SEP H SEP g SEP OCR3 SEP CN CX3 2 tb SEP 0 tb SEP ll tb SEP OCE2CH CH2 SEP H SEP O SEP O SEP H SEP H SEP OCR3 SEP Ct CH2 3CH3 2 tb SEP 0 tb SEP O CH2 4CH SEP CR CR2 SEP H SEP H SEP O SEP H SEP H SEP OCH3 SEP COCH3 tb SEP 0 tb SEP ll tb SEP OCH3 SEP 4 C1 SEP 5 C1 SEP 0 SEP H SEP H SEP OCR3 SEP COCR CR3 2 tb SEP 0 tb SEP ll tb SEP OCH3 SEP 4 F SEP H SEP O SEP d SEP R SEP OCH3 SEP CO CH2 5CH3 tb SEP 0 tb SEP OCR3 SEP 4 Br SEP H SEP O SEP H SEP H SEP OCR3 SEP CR2COH tb Table II cont d EMI56.1 tb SEP QR SEP R2 SEP R3 SEP W SEP R4 SEP R5 SEP X SEP Y tb SEP 9 tb SEP O CR2 3F SEP H SEP H SEP O SEP H SEP H SEP OCH3 SEP CR2CON CR3 2 tb SEP o tb OCS2CR2C1 SEP Cr SEP H SEP H SEP o SEP H SEP H SEP CH3 SEP CR2CRH CR2 2CR3 tb SEP L tb H SEP SEP H SEP H SEP o SEP H SEP H SEP OCR3 SEP CH2C NH2 tb OCE2CC13 SEP H SEP H SEP o SEP H SEP H SEP CE3 SEP CE2coN ca3 2 tb SEP 0 tb OCR2CT3 SEP H SEP H SEP 3 SEP H SEP H SEP OCR3 SEP CR2CN CR2 3CR3 2 tb 9 tb CH2CR,CR3 SEP H SEP H SEP 0 SEP H SEP H SEP OCR3 SEP CR COH tb SEP CR3 SEP CR 3 SEP OCX3 tb SEP 3 SEP 0 tb O CR2 4CR3 SEP H SEP H SEP O SEP H SEP H SEP OCR SEP tb SEP 3 tb OC,RCX2CH2CH3 SEP H SEP H SEP O SEP H SEP H SEP 3 SEP CH NECE3 tb SEP CX3 SEP I SEP CR3 tb OCH2CHCH2CH3 SEP H SEP H SEP 0 SEP H SEP H SEP OCR3 SEP 9R N CR3 2 tb SEP C SEP 3 tb SEP 0 tb OCXCX2CE3 SEP H SEP num SEP H SEP SEP H SEP H SEP aEEM SEP CH3 SEP ,CECNE CH2 3CH3 tb SEP CH3 SEP 3 SEP g tb 0CH2C3r3 SEP H SEP E SEP 0 SEP H SEP H SEP CR3 SEP CR2CR2CNH2 tb SEP 0 tb OCUCR SEP Cl SEP H SEP U SEP O SEP H SEP H SEP OCR3 SEP CH2cH2c cH2 2cHi tb SEP 2 SEP L tb SEP CH2F tb SEP 0 tb OCH2 SEP s SEP Cl SEP H SEP H SEP O SEP H SEP H SEP OCH, SEP CR2CR2COH tb SEP o tb o CECH2Cl SEP R SEP R SEP O SEP H SEP H SEP H CHs 2CB3 tb SEP CH3 SEP SEP SEP 3 SEP tb SEP OCH CH2 3CE3 SEP H SEP E SEP O SEP R SEP H SEP OCH3 SEP CR2 2CNH2 tb SEP cE3 tb Table II continued EMI57.1 tb SEP QR SEP R2 SEP R3 SEP W SEP R4 SEP R3 SEP X SEP Y tb SEP SEP O tb SEP 0 SEP SEP H SEP H SEP O SEP H SEP H SEP CH3 SEP Ca2 SEP 2CI tb SEP 3 tb SEP SEP C8 SEP H SEP H SEP O SEP H SEP H SEP OCH3 SEP F tb 0 CR, SEP C SEP CR3 3 SEP H SEP H SEP o SEP H SEP H SEP OCH3 SEP Br tb SEP CR3 SEP 0 tb 0 CBCB2CH2CHICH2 SEP H SEP H SEP o SEP H SEP H SEP OCH3 SEP CO SEP CER2 SEP 5Ca3 tb SEP cH3 tb SEP H SEP SEP H SEP O SEP O SEP H SEP H SEP OCH3 SEP NH ca2 SEP 2ca3 tb SEP CH3 SEP ca3 SEP O tb SEP OCRCR SEP CR SEP H SEP H SEP o SEP H SEP H SEP OCR. SEP C CH2COH tb SEP 23 tb SEP CH SEP 3 SEP cE3 tb SEP OCH2CX20CX2CE.03 SEP H SEP H SEP 0 SEP H SEP H SEP OCH, SEP , SEP NH 5CH3 tb OCR2CR2OCR2CR3 SEP H SEP H SEP O SEP H SEP H SEP CH3 SEP N CE2 SEP 4 SEP 3 tb SEP CR3 tb OCH2CR2CR SEP 3 SEP H SEP H SEP O SEP H SEP H SEP OCR3 SEP N, 5 SEP CR3 tb SEP CR3 SEP O tb SEP H SEP N SEP H SEP O SEP H SEP H SEP OCH3 SEP ECH2CQH tb SEP 0 tb O C,CR2CR2CR3 SEP H SEP H SEP O SEP H SEP H SEP OCR3 SEP NHCER2CE2 tb SEP ca c 3 2 SEP GX tb SEP CCR2CR2OC2R4C1. SEP E SEP H SEP O SEP H SEP H SEP OCR3 SEP CR SEP 2CN, OCR3 tb SEP OCBz SEP 20 SEP H SEP H SEP O SEP H SEP H SEP OCH3 tb SEP o tb SEP 3 tb SEP 0 tb OCR2 SEP CR2CH2OCR CR3 2 SEP H SEP H SEP O SEP H SEP H SEP CH3 SEP NHCR2CNHCR3 tb Table II cont d EMI58.1 tb SEP QR SEP R2 SEP R3 SEP W SEP R4 SEP R5 SEP X SEP Y tb SEP 4 tb SEP 0 tb SEP tr tb SEP OC3ZCH2SC2a5 SEP a SEP H SEP O SEP H SEP H SEP C83 SEP NUCU2CN CR2 SEP 5CR3 2 tb SEP 0 tb SEP It tb SEP O CR2 3SCU3 SEP H SEP H SEP o SEP H SEP H SEP CR3 SEP N8CH2CNa C82 SEP 5CR3 tb SEP OCH2CH2SO2C2H5 SEP H SEP H SEP o SEP H SEP H SEP CH3 SEP N CH3 CE2CE2CH CH3 2 tb SEP O C82 3SOCH3 SEP H SEP R SEP 0 SEP U SEP U SEP ,N O tb SEP H SEP U SEP 0 SEP U SEP U SEP CR3 SEP NBZCOOH tb SEP OCj SEP h, tb SEP 3 tb SEP CH CH3 2 tb O SEP H SEP 8 SEP O SEP H SEP H SEP 53 SEP NCH2CNH2 tb SEP CE tb SEP 3 tb SEP 0 tb SEP 0q SEP 8 SEP CHJ SEP NBGI2UQs tb SEP C1 tb SEP Cl tb SEP H SEP H SEP O SEP o SEP H SEP H SEP CR2 SEP NRCE2CNHCR3 tb SEP 0 tb SEP o9 SEP HOE SEP H SEP H SEP CH3 SEP N CE2 4C0 CH2 2CH3 tb SEP Br SEP CU3 tb SEP OCR SEP H SEP g SEP 3 SEP , SEP 2 SEP CR3 SEP bTCR SEP CO SEP U tb SEP SEP 3J SEP cz3 tb SEP CU3 tb SEP 0 tb H SEP IT SEP H SEP O SEP H SEP U SEP CR3 SEP CH2COCH3 tb Table II cont d EMI59.1 tb SEP QR SEP R2 SEP R3 SEP W SEP R4 SEP R5 SEP X SEP Y tb SEP 0 tb SEP 0CE2 SEP U SEP H SEP O SEP H SEP E SEP CR3 SEP oCH2COH tb SEP 0 tb SEP OCR, SEP U SEP U SEP 0 SEP H SEP U SEP CR3 tb SEP OCR2COR tb SEP C83 tb SEP o tb SEP O CR2 SEP 4 0 SEP H SEP O SEP O SEP s SEP g SEP C83 SEP OCU2CR2C OH tb SEP 0 tb SEP ll tb SEP OCXt SEP 0 SEP H SEP H SEP O SEP H SEP 8 SEP CR3 SEP SCHJC OH tb SEP 0 tb SEP OCB SEP B SEP U SEP H SEP O SEP H SEP H SEP CR3 SEP SC,RCOR tb SEP CU3 SEP CU3 tb SEP o tb SEP o tb SEP O2mCH0 CH3 2 SEP H SEP H SEP o SEP 8 SEP U SEP C83 tb SEP 0 tb SEP ll tb CH2 SEP 29 SEP R SEP E SEP O SEP H SEP H SEP CR3 SEP CR2 CR SEP 20 0H tb SEP 25 tb SEP tb SEP m SEP H SEP H SEP o SEP H SEP H SEP CR3 tb SEP 1, tb SEP all tb SEP OCR2 SEP H SEP H SEP o SEP H SEP H SEP CH3 SEP CR2 SEP CNU2 tb SEP Cl tb SEP 0 tb SEP O SEP U SEP H SEP 0 SEP H SEP H SEP CH3 SEP 0CR2CNHCR3 tb SEP OCE29Br tb Table II continued EMI60.1 tb SEP QR SEP R. SEP R3 SEP w SEP R4 SEP 5 SEP X SEP Y SEP 9 tb SEP OCR SEP CE2OCH2C SEP Cl3 SEP H SEP s SEP O SEP R SEP s SEP OCE3 SEP ecacoa tb SEP CE SEP CR tb SEP 3 SEP 3 tb SEP 0 tb SEP O C82C SEP 2 SEP 2 SEP t SEP 8 SEP H SEP 0 SEP 8 SEP CH3 SEP OCH3 SEP OCH2COH tb SEP SEP CSCH20 2CH2CH2C1 SEP U SEP H SEP O SEP H SEP H SEP OCEI, SEP F tb SEP cX3 tb SEP OCH2CH2SCR CE3 2 SEP 8 SEP H SEP O SEP H SEP H SEP OCE3 SEP Br tb SEP 0 tb SEP OCE2CS SEP H SEP 8 SEP H SEP O SEP H SEP H SEP OCH3 SEP SCH2COR tb SEP CH3 SEP o tb SEP 1 SEP 3 tb SEP OC CH2 3CH3 SEP H SEP a SEP o SEP H SEP H SEP OCH3 SEP COE tb SEP CN SEP O tb SEP .. tb OCH2 C C C1 SEP H SEP H SEP 0 SEP H SEP H SEP OCH3 SEP CNH2 tb SEP C1 SEP Cl SEP o tb SEP to SEP CH2 4 C, CCl2 SEP H SEP H SEP O SEP H SEP H SEP OCH3 COCza5 tb SEP Cm SEP 9 tb SEP Ca2C CE SEP H SEP H SEP O SEP H SEP II SEP CH3 SEP Irn CH2 4C0 CR2 SEP 5CU3 tb SEP 0 tb SEP .. tb SEP 0CH2C CCCE2 3C SEP H SEP H SEP O SEP H SEP H SEP CR3 SEP NH,CR2CNH2 tb SEP CU3 tb SEP 0CE2 SEP C CCH3 SEP a SEP H SEP o SEP H SEP S SEP oca3 SEP NE CR2 5 SEP CR3 tb SEP 0 tb SEP OCH2CCC82Br SEP H SEP U SEP O SEP a SEP H SEP OCR3 SEP CH2 4CN CR2 3CR3 tb SEP 0 tb SEP rt tb SEP OCH20CH2C820CII3 SEP H SEP H SEP o SEP H SEP H SEP ca3 SEP CU2 3 SEP CNH2 tb SEP O SEP 9 SEP Br SEP o tb SEP Br. SEP U SEP H SEP 0 SEP H SEP H SEP CE3 SEP II tb SEP . COCH2CR3 tb SEP 0 SEP 9, tb SEP oCUC 0CH SEP R SEP R SEP O SEP H SEP H SEP OCH3CH2 4CIi13 2 tb SEP 3 tb SEP C83 tb Table II cont d EMI61.1 tb SEP QR SEP R2 SEP h SEP w SEP R3 SEP w SEP x tb SEP 0 tb SEP ll tb SCH,2C CCH3 SEP R SEP H SEP O SEP H SEP OCR3 SEP CNR CR2 4CR3 tb SEP CH3 tb oca,o SEP H SEP H SEP o SEP a SEP CE3 SEP F tb SEP CR3 tb SEP OCHCOC2Hs SEP a SEP H SEP O SEP H SEP CH3 SEP COCR3 tb SEP CH3 tb SEP 0 tb SEP H SEP H SEP O SEP H SEP OCR3 SEP CR3 tb SEP o SEP O tb SEP OCH20CH2CH3 SEP H SEP H SEP 0 SEP H SEP OCR3 SEP C C2H5 2 tb SEP 0 tb SEP OCH2CEC CE2 6CE3 SEP H SEP H SEP O SEP H SEP CH3 SEP CNO ,CR3 tb SEP CR3 tb SEP 0 tb SEP Ir tb SEP O SEP SEP CH3 2 SEP H SEP H SEP O SEP H SEP CH3 tb SEP Ha SEP o SEP a SEP CH3 tb SEP CH2COCR3 tb SEP Q tb SEP OCH2C C CH2 4C1 SEP H SEP H SEP SEP O SEP H SEP OCR3 SEP CH2c H tb SEP 0 tb SEP ll tb SEP OCH20CH2CH20CH2CH3 SEP H SEP H SEP O SEP H SEP CH3 SEP CNR2 tb SEP 0 tb SEP ll tb SEP OCH20CH2CH2C1 SEP H SEP H SEP O SEP H SEP CH3 SEP NR CR2 4COH tb SEP 0 tb SEP ll tb SEP OCH20CH CH3 2 SEP H SEP H SEP O SEP H SEP OCR tb SEP 2 SEP CU3 2 SEP a SEP a SEP 0 SEP H SEP OCR3 SEP SCR,C0H tb SEP CR SEP H SEP H SEP O SEP H SEP CH3 SEP R tb SEP 2 SEP 9 SEP 3 SEP OCH2COH tb SEP CH3 SEP O tb SEP 0CR20CR2CC13 SEP H SEP H SEP O SEP H SEP CH3 SEP SCH2CH2COH tb Table IIIEMI62.1 EMI62.2 tb SEP or. SEP h SEP x SEP x, SEP P, tb oc ca3 2cscH SEP H SEP H SEP S SEP s SEP CE tb SEP SEP 3 SEP 3 tb OC820CH2CC13 SEP 3 C1 SEP 5 Cl SEP 0 SEP OCE SEP OCH tb SEP 3 SEP 3 tb OCH2CECCH2sr SEP H SEP H SEP O SEP 3 SEP cur3 tb SEP 0 tb OCRCOC2U5 SEP H SEP H SEP O SEP 3 SEP OCR3 tb SEP CH3 tb OCH20C285 SEP H SEP H SEP O SEP OCR3 SEP OCR3 tb SEP 0 tb SEP 1B tb SCR,COC2U5 SEP 5 SO2CR3 SEP H SEP O SEP CR3 SEP OCR3 tb SEP CR3 tb NCR2CECR SEP H SEP H SEP S SEP OCB3 SEP OCH3 tb C2H5 tb ocg3 SEP SC1 SEP H SEP O SEP CE3 SEP OC2R5 tb ocs3 SEP Fob02 SEP H SEP O SEP CR3 SEP OC SEP 2H5 tb ocp5 SEP 5 CE 3 SEP , SEP O SEP CR3 SEP C2R5 tb o i c3H7 SEP 5 F SEP H SEP o SEP CR3 SEP OC2R5 tb fl SEP K tb o n c4Xq SEP E SEP H SEP O SEP OH SEP OCR tb SEP 3 SEP 25 tb SEP 4B9 SEP B SEP O SEP Cg3 SEP OC2H5 tb O tert Ck SEP 6 Cl SEP H SEP O SEP OC2H5 tb SEP OCH2OH2OC2H5 SEP H SEP H SEP O SEP H SEP OC2H5 tb Table III cont d EMI63.1 tb SEP QR SEP R2 SEP 5 SEP W SEP x SEP SEP xl SEP Ti tb SEP 0CH3 SEP H SEP H SEP S SEP 3 SEP OC2Us tb SEP OCE tb SEP 3 SEP 3 Cl SEP 5 Cl SEP O SEP OCR SEP C2a5 tb SEP 3 tb SEP OCR SEP 2CH2Cl SEP H SEP H SEP 0 SEP OCX3 SEP OC2i5 tb SEP OCH CH SEP 3 SEP H SEP H SEP O SEP C i SEP 3 SEP OCiH5 tb SEP I SEP 3 SEP 25 tb SEP CH3 tb SEP ca tb OCR2CC13 SEP H SEP H SEP 0 SEP C113 SEP oC2H tb ocn2cs3 SEP H SEP H SEP o SEP CR3 SEP OC2Hg tb SEP C CR2CH,cH3 SEP H SEP H SEP o SEP CH3 SEP OC2H5 tb SEP CU3 tb SEP o CU2 4CH3 SEP H SEP H SEP o SEP CH3 SEP C2E5 tb SEP SEP H SEP H SEP 0 SEP CR3 SEP OC2H5 tb SEP 5 tb .OCH CE3 2 SEP E SEP H SEP 0 SEP CR3 SEP Or285 tb SEP oa.2arcatCB SEP H SEP B SEP O SEP CIIJ SEP OC2Hg tb SEP H SEP 0 SEP CR3 SEP 0C2U5 tb SEP CH3 tb SEP oca SEP CHCH3 SEP H SEP H SEP o SEP CH3 SEP 0C2a5 tb SEP 3c33 tb SEP 2CBr3 SEP H SEP H SEP 0 SEP Ca tb SEP 0CR,CR2Cl SEP H SEP lI SEP O SEP CX3 SEP OC2H5 tb SEP CH3 tb SEP OCR3 SEP 5 CN SEP O SEP C SEP CR3 SEP OC2Hg tb SEP OCR SEP U SEP 0 tb SEP OCH3 SEP 5 F3 SEP SEP O SEP CH SEP OC2H5 tb SEP OCR3 SEP 5 502CX3 SEP H SEP O SEP CR3 SEP OC2E5 tb SEP OCH3 SEP 5 OCR3 SEP H SEP O SEP CR3 SEP OC2E5 tb SEP ocx2c SEP ca SEP a SEP E SEP o SEP ca3 SEP OC SEP 2R5 tb SEP OCR2C CCR3 SEP a SEP a SEP o SEP oca3 SEP oc2a5 tb SEP Oca2C CCR2 SEP a. SEP a SEP E SEP o SEP CR3 SEP OC2HS tb SEP 0CH20CR2CR20CR3 SEP a SEP a SEP O SEP OCR3 SEP OC SEP 2H5 tb Table III cont d EMI64.1 tb SEP QR SEP R2 SEP R3 SEP W SEP X1 SEP P1 tb SEP Cl tb X SEP a SEP E SEP O SEP CR3 SEP OCE5 tb SEP C1 tb SEP 0 tb OC,UCOCU3 SEP H SEP H SEP O SEP OCE3 SEP OC2R5 tb SEP t tb SEP CR3 tb oCa2o SEP commat SEP C1 SEP E SEP H SEP o SEP CR3 SEP C2a5 tb SCE2CECCE2Br SEP H SEP H SEP O SEP OCR3 SEP OC2z5 tb SEP 0 tb OCR, COC2U5 SEP H SEP H SEP O SEP OCR3 SEP OC2H5 tb SEP CR3 tb H SEP z SEP a SEP a SEP o SEP O SEP CR3 SEP OC2Hg tb SEP 25 tb 0CR20CR2CR3 SEP a SEP H SEP SEP CH3 SEP OC2H5 tb OCR2C C CR2 6 SEP H SEP 3 SEP 2 SEP 5 tb Table IVEMI65.1 EMI65.2 tb SEP QR SEP h SEP x1 SEP 1 tb OCR2C CR SEP H SEP H SEP O SEP OCE3 SEP CE3 tb SEP C CCR SEP Cl SEP 3 tb OC82CIICCH2C1 SEP SEP CE SEP OCR tb SEP 3 SEP 3 tb SCHOCH3 SEP 5 C CE3 SEP s SEP l SEP OC SEP OCR tb SEP 3 SEP 3 tb SEP CR3 tb oCH2OCU3 SEP H SEP 3 SEP OCR3 SEP 7c i3 tb SEP OCH3 SEP H SEP H SEP 0 SEP OCE3 SEP oc2R5 tb SEP OCE3 SEP H SEP H SEP O SEP 23 SEP OC2R5 tb SEP OC2E5 SEP 6 C1 SEP H SEP O SEP OCH3 SEP OC2n5 tb SEP OCR3 SEP 3 C1 SEP 5 Cl SEP SEP 0CR3 SEP C2E5 tb SEP 3 SEP 5 OCH3 SEP H SEP O tb SEP OCF SEP OCR3 SEP 0C2tL5 tb SEP OCR3 SEP 5 NO2 SEP SC1 SEP o SEP OCR3 SEP oc2a5 tb SEP C2s5 SEP 5 C1 SEP H SEP o SEP CE3 SEP OC SEP H tb SEP OcU2CH2C1 SEP H SEP H SEP SEP OCF.3 SEP C2E5 tb O cH2cH SEP o SEP 2CE3 SEP H SEP H SEP SEP OCH3 SEP 0C2H5 tb SEP 2223 tb CRCR SEP H SEP H SEP 0 SEP OCH3 SEP OC2 tb SEP 3 tb SEP CH3 tb Table IV cont d EMI66.1 tb SEP QR SEP R, SEP R, SEP w tb SEP I tb OCH,CH,Bt SEP H SEP O SEP O SEP CH2 SEP OC2it5 tb SEP C SEP 2 SEP H SEP H SEP o SEP OCH3 SEP OC2U5 tb SEP 2, SEP 2C,UCR3 SEP H SEP EI SEP 0 SEP OCR3 SEP OC2Bg tb SEP CH3 tb SEP O CH2 4CR3 SEP H SEP H SEP O SEP OCH3 SEP OC2Hg tb SEP 4 SEP 3 tb oCH CU3 2 SEP H SEP U SEP O SEP 013 SEP OC2 5 tb SEP 3 SEP i CN SEP U SEP O SEP Cz3 SEP OC,Hg tb SEP 0013 SEP 5 CF3 SEP E SEP SEP CH3 SEP oc2EI5 tb OCH3 SEP 5 502013 SEP H SEP O SEP CH3 SEP OC2EI5 tb OCHCH2CH3 SEP H SEP E SEP O SEP OCH3 SEP OC2HS tb SEP C112CH3 tb OCR2C,UCR2CR3 SEP H SEP U SEP 0 SEP OCH3 SEP OC2E5 tb SEP CR3 tb OCUCRCR SEP H SEP H SEP O SEP OCR3 SEP OC2E5 tb SEP 2 tb SEP CE3 SEP tE3 tb O SEP H2 SEP 3 SEP EI SEP U SEP U SEP 0 SEP OCH3 SEP OC tb SEP OCHCH2C1 SEP H SEP EI SEP 0 SEP OCE3 SEP C2H tb SEP 5 tb SEP CR2F tb OCH2CECE SEP EI SEP H SEP O SEP CH3 SEP OC SEP 2H5 tb OC8 SEP C CCH SEP fl SEP g SEP O SEP CH3 SEP OC2H5 tb OCR2C CCR2Cl SEP SEP H SEP O SEP OCR3 SEP 0C2H5 tb SEP OCR2OCR20013 SEP . SEP H SEP . SEP a SEP O SEP OCH3 SEP 0CORN tb SEP o O SEP SEP Br SEP H SEP g SEP o SEP OCS3 SEP OC2z5OCR3 tb SEP Br tb SEP 0 tb SEP OCR COCR SEP EI SEP g SEP o SEP CR3 SEP H tb SEP 1 SEP L5 tb SEP CR3 tb Table IV cont d EMI67.1 tb SEP QR SEP SEP R3 SEP W SEP h SEP Yl tb SCH2GCCE3 SEP H SEP H SEP o SEP OCR3 SEP oC2ES tb SEP 0 tb ci SEP H SEP U SEP U SEP 0 SEP OCR3 SEP OC2E5 tb 25 tb SEP ca3 tb 0CR20CR2CR3 SEP H SEP E SEP O SEP CR3 SEP OC2Hg tb Table V aEMI68.1 EMI68.2 tb SEP QR SEP R. SEP R3 SEP SEP X SEP Y tb SEP 0 tb SEP It tb OCRC OC SEP 2H5 SEP H SEP H SEP H SEP CE SEP CE tb SEP 3 SEP 3 tb SEP CH3 tb SEP 3 SEP O SEP 3 tb SEP F tb SEP 5 Cl SEP H SEP 3 SEP 2 SEP 2 SEP 3 SEP 0CE2OCR3 tb SEP SCE2CECCH3 SEP 3 Cl SEP 6 SEP H SEP CR3 SEP OCE2 tb SEP 3 SEP H SEP H SEP H SEP CE3 SEP F tb SEP OCR3 SEP H SEP H SEP CE3 SEP OCR3 SEP Br tb SEP 0 tb SEP OC3H7 SEP H SEP H SEP cE3 SEP coE tb SEP 9, tb SEP c C3X7 SEP E SEP H SEP H SEP OCR3 SEP ECRU2 tb SEP 0 tb SEP 3 SEP 5 CI SEP H SEP CR3 SEP CE3 SEP 0CR3 tb SEP 0 tb SEP oca3 SEP SC1 SEP 6 Cl SEP H SEP CE3 SEP CNnC2E5 tb SEP 0 tb SEP O CR2CH20 2CR3 SEP H SEP H SEP H SEP OCR3 SEP cN ca3 2 tb SEP CU3 SEP tb SEP .O CR2 CR CR,2 SEP H SEP H SEP H SEP OCR3 SEP OCHCOH tb SEP 0 tb IS SEP 5 SEP OC22CF3 SEP H SEP H SEP H SEP OCH, SEP CR, COCU CR3 2 tb SEP CH3 tb Table V a cont d EMI69.1 tb SEP R2 SEP R3 SEP R5 SEP X SEP y tb SEP R, SEP R SEP R, SEP X SEP Y tb SEP 0 tb SEP O CR2 4CR3 SEP s SEP H SEP H SEP CR3 SEP SCH2COH tb SEP OCH2C1UCa3 SEP H SEP H SEP H SEP OCR3 SEP N CR2 5 SEP CR3 tb SEP a tb SEP CX SEP tb SEP 0 tb SEP ocaca SEP ca, SEP H SEP R SEP H SEP OCR3 SEP N, SEP CR2C SEP OCR3 tb SEP CR3 SEP CR3 tb SEP 0 tb SEP . SEP tZ tb OCH2C CH SEP H SEP H SEP H SEP OCE2CH2COH tb SEP 2 tb SEP 0 tb SEP ll tb OCR2C CCR3 SEP H SEP H SEP H SEP OCH COH tb SEP cE3 tb SEP 0 tb OCB2C CH2C1 SEP H SEP H SEP CH3 SEP SCR2 SEP COU tb SEP 0 tb OCa20Ca2ca20Ca3 SEP H SEP H SEP H SEP COH tb SEP 0 tb 00CR3 SEP CH3 SEP H SEP E SEP CR3 SEP CNE2 tb SEP 0 tb OCHCOC2H5 SEP H SEP H SEP H SEP CHCOH tb SEP 25 tb SEP cE3 SEP CH3 tb SEP 0 tb OCR2O1 SEP commat SEP H SEP H SEP E SEP CH3 SEP NHCRC SEP OH tb SEP cE3 tb SEP 0 tb SCR2C CCR2Br SEP H SEP H SEP H SEP CN CR3 2 tb SEP 0 tb O SEP w SEP E SEP H SEP H SEP COC2H5 tb OC820CB2CEI3 SEP H SEP H SEP CH3 SEP Br tb Table V bEMI70.1 EMI70.2 tb SEP QR SEP b SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP T tb OCH20CH2CH2C1 SEP H SEP H SEP H SEP CH3 SEP OCE3 tb OCH2CECH SEP H SEP H SEP CH3 SEP CH3 SEP OCH3 tb NCH2CEC CH2 2CH3 SEP H SEP H SEP H SEP OCR3 SEP OCR3 tb CH3 tb NCR SEP C CH SEP H SEP H SEP CR3 SEP OC1 SEP OCR3 tb SEP 1 SEP L tb CH CH3 2 tb OCH3 SEP E SEP E SEP E SEP CR3 SEP SCU2C OH tb OCv3 SEP z SEP H SEP CR3 SEP CE3 SEP OCE CH3 COOH tb 25 SEP 5 NO2 SEP H SEP 3 SEP COOH tb O a C4a9 SEP 6 C1 SEP H SEP H SEP CR3 SEP COOH tb N C2Es 2 SEP l SEP CE SEP CONH tb N OCH, tb SEP 3 SEP H SEP H SEP H SEP OCR3 SEP C SEP 00CR3 tb CEI, tb O CH2CR20 2C2H5 SEP H SEP H SEP H SEP OCR3 SEP CH2COOH tb OCR, SEP CR3 SEP H SEP H SEP H SEP OCH3 SEP CH2CONH2 tb SEP CR tb SEP O CE2CHCH3 SEP H SEP H SEP H SEP CH3 SEP CH CH3 COoH tb SEP CH3 tb SEP O CH2 3CH3 SEP g SEP H SEP H SEP OCR3 SEP CH CH3 CON CE3 2 tb SEP 2CR2CR3 SEP H SEP H SEP H SEP CR SEP N CH2COOH tb SEP CR3 SEP 3 SEP H tb Table V bEMI71.1 EMI71.2 tb SEP QR SEP R2 SEP B SEP T tb OCHCH2CH SEP H SEP H SEP H SEP OCR SEP iT CBZCHZCOM12 tb SEP 3, tb SEP CR2CR3 SEP CH3 tb OCH2CH2CB2C83 SEP H SEP H SEP H SEP CH SEP N CHC02H tb SEP CR3 SEP CR3 tb SEP OCHCBCB, SEP a SEP H SEP H SEP CR3 SEP F tb SEP CH3 SEP CH3 tb SEP OCH2CBr3 SEP a SEP H SEP H SEP CR3 SEP Br tb SEP OCHCE2cl SEP E SEP H SEP H SEP OCR3 SEP COOC2H5 tb SEP CH2 tb SEP OC32C CH SEP H SEP u SEP 3 SEP 3 SEP Br tb SCH2C3CB SEP H SEP H SEP H SEP CR3 SEP N SEP CR3 SEP CR2 5 SEP CR tb OCR SEP CCH2CE13 SEP . . SEP EI SEP a SEP CR3 SEP 0CH2CH2COOH tb OCR2a CCH2Br SEP H SEP H SEP H SEP OCR3 SEP OCH CH3 COOH tb OCH20CH2CH20CE3 SEP H SEP H SEP CR3 SEP OCR3 SEP SCR2COOH tb CCB tb SEP H SEP H. SEP CH3 SEP CR3 SEP COOB tb SEP CR3 tb SEP 0 tb OCHCOCR SEP CR SEP H SEP H SEP CH3 SEP OCR3 SEP CONH2 tb SEP 3 tb SEP CH3 tb SEP H SEP O, SEP a SEP H SEP a SEP OCH3 SEP CH CH3 COOH tb SEP OCH20CH2CH3 SEP H SEP H SEP H SEP CH3 SEP CR SEP 2C00CR3 tb SEP OCE20CH2CH2Cl SEP H SEP H SEP CH3 SEP OCR3 SEP NHCEl CH3 COOR tb SEP OCH2C C CH2 6CE3 SEP H SEP H SEP H SEP OCR3 SEP CO C SEP 2H5 tb Table VIEMI72.1 EMI72.2 tb SEP QR SEP R2 SEP R3 SEP W SEP Rg SEP X SEP Y tb OOH2 SEP OR SEP H SEP z SEP S SEP CR SEP OCR SEP OCR tb SEP 3 SEP 3 SEP 3 tb OCB2CCCH2F SEP E SEP H SEP S SEP H SEP CR3 SEP CR3 tb SEP OCR3 SEP H SEP H SEP S SEP CH3 SEP OCH3 SEP OCR2COOH tb SEP SEP OCB3 SEP H SEP H SEP S SEP H SEP CU3 SEP OCH CR3 COOH tb SEP OCH3 SEP 3 SEP H SEP O SEP CE3 SEP OCH3 SEP OCH2CH2COOH tb Q CE SEP SEP CE SEP U SEP H SEP f SEP o SEP U SEP 0CK3 SEP SCE CE3 COOU tb SEP 29 SEP 3 tb O. CH2 4CHMCR2 SEP H SEP H SEP o SEP H SEP OCH3 SEP Br tb OCH SEP Cu SEP C1 SEP H SEP a SEP O SEP H SEP OCH3 SEP COOH tb CH SEP CHCR tb 2, SEP 3 SEP H SEP H SEP 0 SEP H SEP CR3 SEP CONE2 tb SEP cs3 tb O Cs2 4CP.3 SEP H SEP H SEP O SEP H SEP CH3 SEP COOCH3 tb OCUCR2CU2CU3 SEP H SEP H SEP O SEP H SEP CR3 SEP CR2CONHCR3 tb SEP CH3 tb OC,HCH2 SEP H SEP H SEP 0 SEP H SEP CH3 SEP CR2COOC2U5 tb SEP CH2CR3 tb SEP 2CR,CU2CR3 SEP H SEP a SEP O SEP H SEP CR3 SEP NaCH2C SEP 2CooCH3 tb SEP CR3 tb OCsCuCH3 SEP H SEP H SEP O SEP H SEP CH3 SEP N CH3 CH2COOH tb SEP 0 tb SEP CE3 SEP CH3 SEP , , tb SEP CR CH3 2 tb OCR3r3 SEP H SEP H SEP 0 SEP H SEP CH3 SEP N CU CO tb SEP C SEP CR3 tb Table VI a cont d EMI73.1 tb SEP QR SEP R2 SEP R3 SEP W SEP a5 SEP X SEP Y tb SEP L tb OC,UCU2Cl SEP a SEP a SEP o SEP a SEP CH3 SEP CON C2z5 2 tb SEP CU2F tb oca2ca2F SEP a SEP a SEP o SEP a SEP OCR3 SEP SCE2COOE tb oca2ccl3 SEP a SEP a SEP o SEP H SEP OCE3 SEP CR2CU2COO CR2 5CU3 tb OCU2C CU SEP a SEP a SEP o SEP CR3 SEP CR3 SEP OCE2CE2COO tb SCR2C CCR3 SEP a SEP a SEP o SEP CR3 SEP OCR3 SEP SCB2COOH tb OCR2C CCU2Br SEP R SEP a SEP S SEP H SEP CU3 SEP COOH tb CH2 cH2cH2 cH3 SEP SEP E SEP S SEP SEP OCH3 SEP CE CH3 COOR tb OCH COOC2E5 SEP H SEP H SEP O SEP E SEP OCa3 SEP CONHCH3 tb SEP ca3 tb OCH20 SEP 4 SEP H SEP H SEP O SEP SEP CE3 SEP COOCR3 tb OCU2OCR2CU2Cl SEP a SEP E SEP o SEP H SEP OCH3 SEP N CH2 5CB3 tb Table VI bEMI74.1 EMI74.2 tb SEP K2 SEP R3 SEP W SEP R5 SEP x SEP Y tb SEP O SEP SEP CE CH3 2 SEP H SEP H SEP S SEP CH3 SEP OCR3 SEP OCR3 tb SEP SCU2CaCCR2Cl SEP a SEP a SEP o SEP R SEP CU3 SEP OCR3 tb SEP NCE2C Ca SEP 3 Cl SEP H SEP S SEP SEP C93 SEP OCR3 tb CE2 5CE3 tb SEP OCR3 SEP a SEP H SEP S SEP CR3 SEP OCR3 SEP OCE2C O OH tb SEP O i C3 SEP 5 F SEP a SEP S SEP CU3 SEP OCH3 SEP SCE2C O OR tb SEP O CR 9CU3 SEP U SEP a SEP o SEP a SEP H SEP oca3 SEP OCU CU3 C O OE tb SEP o CR2CR20 2CU3 SEP a SEP E SEP o SEP H SEP OCR3 SEP OCH2CH2C O OR tb SEP O CH2 4CH SEP CH2 SEP a SEP E SEP o SEP SEP OCH3 SEP Br tb SEP O CH2CH CH3 2 SEP a SEP a SEP o SEP H SEP OCH3 SEP C O OU tb SEP o ca2 4ca3 SEP H SEP a SEP o SEP a SEP OCR3 SEP c o Na2 tb SEP OCH CH3 CH CH3 2 SEP H SEP a SEP O SEP E SEP OCR3 SEP CH2C O OR tb SEP OC CBr3 SEP a SEP a SEP o SEP a SEP OCH3 SEP CR2CH2C SEP O NHCH3 tb Table VI b cont d EMI75.1 tb SEP B2 SEP R2 SEP R3 SEP W SEP R5 SEP x tb OCH CE2F CH2C1 SEP H SEP a SEP o SEP a SEP OCR3 SEP tlEICII2C O OH tb oCa2CF3 SEP U SEP a SEP o SEP a SEP OCR3 SEP N C83 CH2C O NH2 tb SCB2C CH SEP H SEP a SEP O SEP CH3 SEP CH3 SEP S SEP CH2 SEP 2C SEP 0 OH tb OCR2C C CU2 2C1 SEP a SEP H SEP SEP E SEP CH3 SEP OCE CH3 C O OE tb SCR2a CCR2CI SEP H SEP H SEP O SEP H SEP OCH3 SEP C O l1H2 tb OCE20Ca2CH20Ca2Ca3 SEP H SEP a SEP S SEP H SEP OCH3 SEP C O OH tb SEP U SEP 4 SEP O SEP a SEP SEP CU3 SEP OCR3 SEP CH CH3 C O OH tb OCH CH3 C O OCa3 SEP H SEP a SEP O SEP CH3 SEP CR3 SEP NH CH2 4C O OH tb SEP Cl tb oca2o SEP 4 SEP Cl SEP a SEP a SEP o SEP a SEP CH3 SEP C O N CU3 2 tb SEP Cl tb OCR2OCR2CCl3 SEP a SEP a SEP o SEP a SEP OCR3 SEP N CE3 CE2 4CE3 tb Table VII aEMI76.1 EMI76.2 tb SEP R SEP R SEP R4 tb SEP 3 SEP 4 SEP 5 SEP w SEP x SEP y tb a SEP H SEP a SEP H SEP O SEP CH3 SEP OCB CB3 C O OH tb 6 C1 SEP H SEP CR3 SEP H SEP O SEP OCR3 SEP SCE2C O OH tb 6 C1 SEP H SEP H SEP a SEP S SEP OCH3 SEP C O OR tb 3 C1 SEP 5 C1 SEP H SEP H SEP S SEP OCE3 SEP C O N CH3 0CH3 tb SEP TABLE SEP VII b tb SEP SO tb SEP Wof tb SEP R, SEP Rf tb SEP 4 tb SEP C OB tb SEP R2 SEP R3 SEP R4 SEP K5 SEP W SEP X tb H SEP H SEP a SEP H SEP O SEP CR3 SEP OCIl2CH2C O OH tb H SEP E SEP EI SEP a SEP s SEP OCH3 SEP NUC O CR2C O OCU CH3 2 tb 4 C1 SEP 6 C1 SEP E SEP H SEP O SEP OCa3 SEP sCU CR3 C o OU tb Table VII cEMI77.1 EMI77.2 tb SEP R2 SEP R3 SEP W SEP 1 SEP 1 tb SEP 3 tb SEP H SEP SEP O SEP CE3 SEP OC SEP 2U5 tb SEP H SEP H SEP S SEP CH3 SEP OC2H5 tb SEP TABLE SEP VII d tb SEP W SEP N SEP i SEP 1 tb SEP R, SEP SO, tb SEP B3 SEP C OH SEP Yl tb SEP B tb SEP 2 SEP 0 tb SEP B2 SEP R3 SEP w SEP 1 SEP 1 tb a SEP E SEP o SEP OCR3 SEP OC SEP 2U5 tb H SEP H SEP S SEP OCH3 SEP OC SEP 2U5 tb 3 C1 SEP a SEP o SEP OCH3 SEP OC SEP 2U5 tb Table VIII aEMI78.1 EMI78.2 tb SEP R SEP R2 SEP R3 SEP R4 SEP R5 SEP R6 SEP W SEP x SEP Y tb CR3 SEP H SEP H SEP E SEP a SEP SEP O SEP OCR3 SEP OCH CH3 C O OH tb i C3H7 SEP E SEP H SEP H SEP H SEP H SEP O SEP OCH3 SEP SCH2C O OH tb CH2C6 SEP E SEP H SEP E SEP H SEP CH3 SEP S SEP OCH3 SEP OCE2CE2C O OE tb CE2C6H5 SEP E SEP a SEP H SEP H SEP C2U5 SEP O SEP CH3 SEP C O OH tb H SEP a SEP a SEP H SEP H SEP H SEP O SEP OCR3 SEP C O NH2 tb CH2CHsCH2 SEP H SEP a SEP H SEP H SEP H SEP S SEP OCE3 SEP C O NHCa CH3 2 tb 4 SEP H SEP H SEP E SEP H SEP CH3 SEP 0 SEP OCE3 SEP C O N CH3 2 tb C2U5 SEP E SEP H SEP H SEP H SEP CH3 SEP O SEP CE3 SEP C O OCH3 tb C2U5 SEP E SEP E SEP H SEP H SEP CH CH3 2 SEP 0 SEP CH3 SEP C O O CE2 5CE3 tb CH3 SEP H SEP H SEP H SEP H SEP CE3 SEP O SEP CH3 SEP CE2C O OH tb i C3g7 SEP E SEP E SEP H SEP H SEP H SEP O SEP CH3 SEP CH CH3 C O OCa3 tb CH2 20C2H5 SEP a SEP H SEP U SEP H SEP H SEP S SEP OCB3 SEP C O N CH3 0CH3 tb TABLE VIII a Cont d EMI79.1 tb SEP R SEP R2 SEP R3 SEP R4 SEP Rg SEP R6 SEP W tb SEP CU2 4 SEP H SEP H SEP H SEP a SEP SEP 0 SEP CH3 SEP SCH2CE2C O OH tb CU2 2O C 2 SEP E SEP H SEP a SEP a SEP SEP o SEP OCR3 SEP C O OH tb SEP CU2 2N CU2 2 SEP U SEP U SEP H SEP a SEP SEP o SEP OCH3 SEP c o Na2 tb SEP CU3 tb CH2C6H5 SEP H SEP H SEP H SEP H SEP H SEP O SEP CR3 SEP C O OCE3 tb CE2CECa SEP H SEP R SEP H SEP SEP SEP O SEP CH3 SEP CE2C O OCH CE3 2 tb CH2CECCE3 SEP a SEP H SEP H SEP U SEP CE3 SEP O SEP CH3 SEP SEP C O NE2 tb Cn 2Csc cE2 2cE3 SEP H SEP a SEP a SEP a SEP CE2CE cH2 SEP o SEP CH3 SEP oCU CU3 C 0 0U tb CU2C CCU CH3 2 SEP H SEP H SEP H SEP a SEP CU2CR3 SEP o SEP OCR3 SEP C O OCB,CB, tb R and R6 are taken together. Table VIII bEMI80.1 EMI80.2 tb SEP R2 SEP 2 SEP R3 SEP 4 SEP R SEP R6 SEP k, SEP g SEP y tb cE3 SEP a SEP H SEP H SEP H SEP H SEP O SEP OCH3 SEP OCB2C O OH tb CR3 SEP H SEP a SEP H SEP H SEP H SEP O SEP CR3 SEP SCE2C O OR tb C2H5 SEP 5 C1 SEP H SEP CH3 SEP H SEP H SEP O SEP CH3 SEP OCH CH3 C O OH tb CR3 SEP 4 C1. SEP 6 C1 SEP CR3 SEP CH3 SEP H SEP O SEP OCH3 SEP C O OE tb CR3 SEP H SEP H SEP H SEP H SEP H SEP S SEP C O N82 tb CR2 4CR3 SEP H SEP U SEP H SEP H SEP H SEP S SEP OCR3 SEP C O N CH3 2 tb Ca2 SEP 4 SEP a SEP H SEP E SEP a SEP H SEP O SEP CE30 SEP SCH CE3 C O OH tb H SEP H SEP H SEP U SEP H SEP B SEP o SEP OCH3 SEP SCE2CE2C O OR tb sec C4Eg SEP H SEP H SEP H SEP H SEP H SEP O SEP OCR SEP 3 tb C2H5 SEP H SEP H SEP a SEP H SEP CR3 SEP S SEP OCh3 SEP C O OC2H5 tb scc C4H9 SEP E SEP U SEP U SEP U SEP j C3U7 SEP S SEP OCE3 SEP C o o Ca2 5Ca3 tb SEP CR CR SEP H SEP 8 SEP H SEP a SEP H SEP O SEP 2 SEP CR2CR2C SEP no2 tb SEP CU2CH2 tb CU2 CR CR2 SEP H SEP U SEP E SEP E SEP H SEP o SEP CR3 SEP C CE3 2C O OH tb Table VIII b Cont d EMI81.1 tb SEP R SEP R2 SEP R3 SEP R4 SEP R5 SEP B6 SEP W SEP X SEP y tb SEP C82 20CH3 SEP H SEP H SEP H SEP H SEP CH3 SEP S SEP CH3 SEP OCU CU3 C O OE tb SEP 5R2 SEP C6 SEP 5 SEP H SEP H SEP H SEP H SEP H SEP O SEP OCR3 SEP SCH2C O OH tb SEP C SEP 2 4 SEP H SEP H SEP H SEP H SEP SEP O SEP CH3 SEP Br tb SEP CR2 5 SEP U SEP H SEP H SEP H SEP SEP 0 SEP C83 SEP C O OE tb SEP CR2 6 SEP H SEP H SEP H SEP H SEP SEP O SEP C83 SEP C O OCH3 tb SEP n C4Hg SEP H SEP H SEP H SEP H SEP n C3H7 SEP S SEP CR3 SEP C SEP O NH2 tb SEP CE2 6CH3 SEP H SEP H SEP H SEP H SEP n C3 SEP 0 SEP CR3 SEP OCH2CH2C O OH tb SEP C,R CR2 SEP CH3 SEP H SEP H SEP H SEP H SEP H SEP O SEP CH3 SEP N CE3 CH2C O NH2 tb SEP CH3 tb SEP cyclo C8H15 SEP H SEP H SEP H SEP H SEP H SEP O SEP CH3 SEP CB CB3 C O OH tb SEP H SEP H SEP H SEP H SEP 8 SEP H SEP o SEP CH3 SEP CH2C O OH tb SEP H SEP H SEP H SEP H SEP SEP H SEP O SEP CH3 SEP OCH CH3 C O OH tb CU2 5 SEP H SEP H SEP H SEP H SEP SEP o SEP C1 SEP CU2C O SEP NUCH3 tb CU2 5 SEP H SEP H SEP H SEP H SEP SEP O SEP OCR3 SEP CH2C O OH tb C CH3 3 SEP H SEP H SEP H SEP U SEP SEP O SEP CH3 SEP CH2C O N CH3 2 tb C1C CR SEP H SEP H SEP H SEP H SEP H SEP 0 SEP CH3 SEP sCR CU3 C 0 OU tb CR2C CCU3 SEP H SEP H SEP H SEP H SEP CE3 SEP 0 SEP OCH3 SEP C O OH tb SEP CH2C CCH CE SEP SEP H SEP H SEP H SEP H QLS5CIS SEP O SEP CH3 SEP C 0 0CR3 tb SEP CU2 CCR2CU3 SEP H SEP CH2 SEP CH3 SEP H SEP H SEP H Ci2Ci CH20 SEP CH3 SEP NH CE2 2C NH2 tb R and R6 are taken together. TABLE VIII c EMI82.1 R R2 R3 W R6 X1 Y1 H H H O H CH3 OC2H5 CH3 H H O H CH3 OC2H5 CH3 5 Cl H S H CH3 OC2H5 CH3 6 Cl H S H CH3 OC2H5 C2H5 H H O H CH3 OC2H5 sec C4H9 H H O H CH3 OC2H5 CH2 C CH H H O CH3 CH3 OC2H5 CH2C C CH2 2CH3 H H O H CH3 OC2H5Table VIII dEMI82.2 R R2 R3 W R6 X1 Y1CH3 H H O H OCH3 OC2H5C2H5 5 Cl H O H CH3 OC2H5 i C3H7 H H O H CH3 OC2H5 CH2C CH H H S H OCH3 OC2H5 CH2C CCH3 H H O H OCH3 OC2H5 Table IX aEMI83.1 EMI83.2 tb SEP QR SEP R2 SEP R3 SEP W SEP R5 SEP I tb sca3 SEP H SEP a SEP o SEP H SEP CH3 SEP Br tb SEP 0 tb SUCH3 SEP H SEP H SEP S SEP H SEP ca3 SEP COH tb SEP 0 tb SC2H5 SEP H SEP H SEP O SEP H SEP OCR3 SEP OCHCOH tb SEP cE3 tb SEP 0 tb SEP ll tb 5CR, SEP CR3 SEP H SEP E SEP o SEP H SEP OCR3 SEP CNE2 tb SEP CH3 tb SEP 0 tb 5CU,CR2CR3 SEP H SEP H SEP O SEP H SEP CR3 SEP 5CR2C R tb SEP CH3 tb SEP tb scaca2cl SEP H SEP H SEP o SEP H SEP OCR3 SEP COCR3 tb SEP CH3 tb SEP 0 tb SEP ll tb S CH CH2 CHBr SEP H SEP H SEP O SEP H SEP CH3 SEP NCHCC2COH tb SEP CR3 SEP CR3 tb SEP 0 tb SEP ll tb SEP Cg SEP H SEP H SEP o SEP H SEP CR3 SEP ocacou tb SEP 3 tb SEP CH3 tb SEP 0 tb SCH2C CCH CH3 2 SEP H SEP H SEP o SEP H SEP OCH3 SEP COH tb SEP 0 SEP 0 tb SEP SCECOCH3 SEP H SEP H SEP O SEP H SEP CR3 SEP CR SEP 2CR2 SEP C0H tb SEP ca3 tb SEP 0 SEP BHO SEP 0 tb SEP S 0 SEP H SEP H SEP o SEP H SEP OCR3 SEP N, CR2ONR2 tb SEP cE3 tb Table IX bEMI84.1 EMI84.2 tb SEP QR SEP R2 SEP R3 SEP W SEP R5 SEP X tb SEP o tb SCAR3 SEP H SEP H SEP o SEP E SEP CH3 SEP SCR2COU tb SEP 0 tb SC2H5 SEP H SEP H SEP o SEP H SEP OCR3 SEP OCHCOH tb SEP CH3 tb S n C5Hll SEP H SEP H SEP O SEP H SEP OCR3 SEP Br tb SEP 0 tb S n C8U17 SEP H SEP U SEP O SEP U SEP OCR3 SEP S CH COH tb SEP ca3 tb SEP o tb S n C4Hg SEP H SEP H SEP O SEP H SEP OC83 SEP OCR2CR2COU tb SEP 0 tb SEP .. tb S CR2 SEP H SEP H SEP O SEP Y SEP OCR3 tb SEP CU3 tb SEP 0 tb H SEP H SEP R SEP H SEP O SEP R SEP OCH3 SEP ca cNa2 tb SEP CH3 tb SEP 0 tb SCE2 SEP E SEP s SEP H SEP SEP R SEP CR3 SEP COCH3 tb SEP 0 tb SEP Ir tb SCE2 SEP C1 SEP C1 SEP H SEP H SEP O SEP s SEP CR3 SEP COC2H5 tb TABLE IX b cont d EMI85.1 tb SEP QR SEP R2 SEP R3 SEP W SEP R3 SEP g tb SEP 5CR, SEP CR3 SEP Hi SEP H SEP SEP E SEP OCR3 tb SEP CN CR2 3CR3 2 tb SEP cE3 tb SEP SCU cU2CR3 SEP H SEP H SEP o SEP H SEP OCH3 SEP CE2CH2CSECE3 tb SEP cE3 tb SEP 0 tb SEP SCH,CR2C1 SEP H SEP H SEP o SEP H SEP CR3 SEP CE2 480 CE2 3Ca3 tb SEP CR3 tb SEP S SEP commat SEP ci SEP X SEP U SEP 0 SEP U SEP CR3 SEP O CflCOH tb SEP CH3 tb SEP H SEP H SEP 0 SEP o SEP E SEP ca3 tb SEP 3 SEP CH3 tb SEP 0 tb SEP ll tb SCH2CECR SEP H SEP H SEP O SEP H SEP CR3 SEP COH tb SEP SCU2CECCR2Br SEP H SEP E SEP O SEP H SEP CH3 SEP SCECOH tb SEP ca3 tb SEP 0 tb SEP ri tb SEP SCR2C CCR2 6CU3 SEP H SEP H SEP O SEP H SEP ca3 SEP CN,CR3 tb SEP OCE3 tb SEP 0 tb SEP SffB CR3 2 SEP H SEP H SEP O SEP H SEP OCR3 SEP CE2 3CNH2 tb Table IX cEMI86.1 EMI86.2 tb SEP QR SEP R2 SEP R3 SEP W SEP xl SEP Ti tb SCECR3 SEP H SEP E SEP tb SEP 3 SEP U SEP H SEP 0 SEP CU SEP 25 tb SEP CH3 tb SCECX2CH3 SEP H SEP H SEP O SEP OCB3 SEP OC SEP 2U5 tb SEP CH3 tb SCR2CH3 SEP H SEP H SEP SEP OCR3 SEP OC2E5 tb SEP H SEP H SEP R SEP s SEP o SEP CR SEP OC2Es tb S CR, SEP CR2 SEP CCl3 SEP H SEP H SEP O SEP CH3 SEP OC2Hg tb SEP CU tb SEP 3 tb SEP S n C3H7 SEP H SEP H SEP O SEP OCH3 SEP OC2H5 tb SEP SCH3 SEP H SEP H SEP O SEP cE3 SEP OC2Hg tb SEP SCR2CECR SEP H SEP H SEP 0 SEP CH3 SEP OC2H5 tb SEP SCR2C CCU2Br SEP H SEP H SEP O SEP ocE3 SEP OC2H5 tb SEP SCH2CEC CE2 6CH3 SEP H SEP H SEP O SEP OCR3 SEP OC2Hg tb Table IX dEMI87.1 EMI87.2 tb SEP QR SEP R2 SEP R3 SEP W SEP X1 SEP 1 tb SCU,Ca3 SEP U SEP H SEP o SEP OCR3 SEP OC SEP H tb SEP 23 tb SEP CR3 tb SEP SCHCE2CH3 SEP H SEP H SEP O SEP OCH3 SEP OC2H5 tb SEP CR3 tb H SEP 4 SEP H SEP O SEP SEP OCR3 SEP OC2H5 tb SEP S CR, CR2CCi3 SEP H SEP H SEP O SEP CR3 SEP OC2Hg tb SEP cH3 tb SEP SUCH3 SEP H SEP H SEP O SEP CH3 SEP OC2Hg tb SEP S ti C5H11 SEP H SEP H SEP o SEP OCH3 SEP OC2Hg tb SEP SCR2a CCU2Cl SEP H SEP H SEP O SEP OCR3 SEP OC2S tb SEP H SEP a SEP H SEP o SEP O SEP CH3 SEP oc2a tb Formulations Useful formulations of the compounds of Formula I can be prepared in conventional ways. They include dusts, granules, pellets, solutions, suspensions, emulsions, wettable powders, emulsifiable concentrates and the like. Many of these may be applied directly.Sprayable formulations can be extended in suitable media and used at spray volumes of from a few liters to several hundred liters per hectare. High strength compositions are primarily used as intermediates for further formulation. The formulations, broadly, contain about 0.1 to 99 by weight of active ingredient s and at least one of a about 0.1 to 20t surfactant s and b about 1 to 99.9 solid or liquid diluent s .More specifically, they will contain these ingredients in the following approximate proportions TABLE X Weight Percent Active Ingredient Diluent s Surfactant s Wettable Powders 20 90 0 74 1 10Oil Suspensions, 3 50 40 95 0 15Emulsions, Solutions, including EmulsifiableConcentrates Aqueous Suspension 10 50 40 84 1 20Dusts 1 25 70 99 0 5Granules and Pellets 0.1 95 5 99.9 0 15High Strength 90 99 0 10 0 2Compositions Active ingredient plus at least one of a Surfactant or a Diluent equals 100 weight percent. Lower or higher levels of active ingredient can, of course, be present depending on the intended use and the physical properties of the compound.Higher ratios of surfactant to active ingredient are sometimes desirable, and are achieved by incorporation into the formulation or by tank mixing. Typical solid diluents are described inWatkins, et al., Handbook of Insecticide Oust Diluents and farriers , 2nd Ed., Dorland Books, Caldwell, NewJersey, but other solids, either mined or manufactured, may be used. The more absorptive diluents are preferred for wettable powders and the denser ones for dusts. Typical liquid diluents and solvents are described in Marsden, Solvents Guide, 2nd Ed.,Interscience, New York, 1950. Solubility under 0.1 is preferred for suspension concentrates solution concentrates are preferably stable against phase separation at 0 C. McCutcheon s Detergents andEmulsifiers Annual , MC Publishing Corp., Ridgewood,New Jersey, as well as Sisely and Wood, Encyclopedia of Surface Active Agents , Chemical Publishing Co.,Inc., New York, 1964, list surfactants and recommended uses.All formulations can contain minor amounts of additives to reduce foaming, caking, corrosion, microbiological growth, etc. The methods of making such compositions are well known. Solutions are prepared by simply mixing the ingredients. Fine solid compositions are made by blending and, usually, grinding as in a hammer or fluid energy mill. Suspensions are prepared by wet milling see, for example, Littler, U.S. Patent 3,060,084 .Granules and pellets may be made by spraying the active material upon preformed granular carriers or by agglomeration techniques. See J. E. Browning, Agglomeration , Chemical Engineering, December 4, 1967, pp. 147ff. and Perry s Chemical Engineer sHandbook , 5th Ed., McGraw Hill, New York, 1973, pp.8 57ff. For further information regarding the art of formulation, see for example H. M. Loux, U.S. Patent 3,235,361, February 15, 1966, Col. 6, line 16 through Col. 7, line 19 andExamples 10 through 41 R. W. Luckenbaugh, U.S. Patent 3,309,192,March 14, 1967, Col. 5, line 43 through Col. 7, line 62 and Examples 8, 12, 15, 39, 41, 52, 53, 58, 132, 138 140, 162 164, 166, 167 and 169 182 H. Gysin and E. Knusli, U.S. Patent 2,891,855,June 23, 1959, Col. 3, line 66 through Col. 5, line 17 and Examples 1 4 G. C. Klingman, Weed Control as a Science ,John Wiley Sons, Inc., New York, 1961, pp. 81 96 and J. D. Fryer and S. A. Evans, Weed ControlHandbook , 5th Ed., Blackwell Scientific Publications,Oxford, 1968, pp. 101 103. In the following examples, all parts are by weight unless otherwise indicated. Example 14Wettable Powder 2 methoxyethoxy methyl 2 C 4 ethoxy 6 methyl 1,3,5 triazin 2 yl aminocarbonyl aminosulfonyl benzoate 90 dioctyl sodium sulfossucinate 0.1 synthetic fine silica 9.9 The ingredients are blended and ground in a hammer mill to produce particles essentially all below 100 microns. The material is sifted through a U.S.S. No. 50 screen and then packaged. Example 15Wettable Powder 4 chlorophenoxy methyl 2 E 4,6 dimethyl pyrimidin 2 yl aminocarbonyl aminosulfonyl benzoate 40 sodium ligninsulfonate 20 montmorillonite clay 40 The ingredients are thoroughly blended, coarsely hammer milled and then air milled to produce particles essentially all below 10 microns in size.The material is reblended and then packaged. Example 16Oil Susoension 4 chloro 2 butynyl 2 4 methoxy 6 methylpyrimidin 2 yl aminocarbonyl aminosulfonyl benzoate 35 blend of polyalcohol carboxylic 6 esters and oil soluble petroleum sulfonates xylene 59 The ingredients are combined and ground together in a sand mill to produce particles essentially all below 5 microns. The product can be used directly, extended with oils, or emulsified in water. Example 17 Solution t 2 methoxyethoxy methyl 2 4,6 dimethy1pyrimidin 2 yl aminocarbonyl aminosulfonyl benzoat sodium salt water 95S The salt is added directly to the water with stirring to produce the solution, which may then be packaged for use. Examole 18Low Strength Granule methyl 2 4 1 carboxyethoxy 6 methyl 1,3,5 triazin 2 yl aminocarbonyl aminosulfonyl benzoate 0.1 attapulgite granules 99.9 U.S.S. 20 40 mesh The active ingredient is dissolved in a solvent and the solution is sprayed upon dedusted granules in a double cone blender. After spraying of the solution has been completed, the material is warmed to evaporate the solvent. The material is allowed to cool and then packaged. Example 19Dust E 2 methoxyethoxy methyl 2 5C 4,6 dimethoxy pyrimidin 2 yl aminocarbonyl aminosulfonyl benzoate 10 attapulgite 10 Pyrophyllite 80 The active ingredient is blended with attapulgite and then passed through a hammer mill to produce particles substantially all below 200 microns.The ground concentrate is then blended with powdered pyrophyllite until homogeneous. UTILITY The compounds of the present invention are active herbicides. They have utility for broad spectrum pre and or post emergence weed control in areas where complete control of all vegetation is desired, such as around fuel storage tanks, ammunition depots, industrial storage areas, parking lots, drive in theaters, around billboards, highway and railroad structures. Alternatively, the subject compounds are useful for the selective pre or post emergence weed control in crops, such as wheat and barley. The rates of application for the compounds of the invention are determined by a number of factcrs, including their use as selective or general herbicides, the crop species involved, the types of weeds to be controlled, weather and climate, formulations selected, mode of application, amount of foliage present, ect.In general terms, the subject comoounds should be applied at levels of around 0.06 to 10 kg ha, the lower rates being suggested for use on lighter soils and or those having a low organic matter content, for selective weed control or for situations where only short term persistence is required. The compounds of the invention may be used in combination with any other commercial herbicide examples of which are those of the triazine, triazole, uracil, urea, amide, diphenylether, carbamate and bipyridylium types. For use as a plant growth regulant, the compounds will be used in such manner and amount as to be effective but substantially non phytotoxic to the desirable plant species whose growth is to be regulated. The herbicidal properties of the subject compounds were discovered in a number of greenhouse tests. The test procedures and results follow. Test A Seeds of crabgrass Digitaria spp. , barnyardgrass Echinochloa crusgalli , wild oats Avena fatua , cassia Cassia tora , morningglory Ipomoea spp. , cocklebur Xanthium spp. , sorghum, corn, soybean, rice, wheat and nutsedge tubers cyprus rotundus were planted in a growth medium and treated pre emergence with the chemicals dissolved in a non phytotoxic solvent solution of the Compounds ofTable A.At the same time, cotton having five leaves including cotyledonary ones , bush beans with the third trifoliate leaf expanding, crabgrass, barnyardgrass and wild oats with two leaves, cassia with three leaves including cotyledonary ones , morningglory and cocklebur with four leaves including the cotyledonary ones , sorghum and corn with four leaves, soybean with two cotyledonary leaves, rice with three leaves, wheat with one leaf, and nutsedge with three five leaves were sprayed. Treated plants and controls were maintained in a greenhouse for sixteen days, then all species were compared to controls and visually rated for response to treatment. The ratings are based on a numerical scale extending from 0 no injury to 10 complete kill. The accompanying descriptive symbols have the following meanings C chlorosis necrosis G growth retardation H formative effects E emergence inhibition U unusual pigmentation. X axillary stimulation 6Y abscised flowers or buds and 6F delayed flowering. The data are summarized in Table A. Table AEMI95.1 EMI95.2 tb SEP kg ha SEP 2 SEP 0.4 tb SEP POST EMERGENCE tb SEP BUSHBEAN SEP 9C SEP SEP 9C SEP tb SEP COTTON SEP 9C SEP 9C tb SEP MORNINGGLORY SEP 10C SEP 9C tb SEP COCKLEBUR SEP lOC SEP 3C,9G SEP tb SEP CASSIA SEP lOC SEP 9C tb SEP NUTSEDGE SEP 9C SEP 9C tb SEP CRABGRASS SEP 9C SEP 5C, SEP 8G tb SEP BARNYARDGRASS SEP 9C SEP 6C, SEP 9H tb SEP WILD SEP OATS SEP 6C, SEP 9G SEP 3C, SEP 7G tb SEP WHEAT SEP 1C, SEP 5G SEP 1C tb SEP CORN SEP lOC SEP 9C tb SEP SOYBEAN SEP 9C SEP 9C tb SEP RIGE SEP 9C SEP 9C tb SEP SORGHUM SEP 5C, SEP 9G SEP 6C, SEP 9G tb PRE EMERGENCE tb SEP MORNINGGLORY SEP 9G SEP 9G tb SEP COCKLEBUR SEP 9H, SEP 9H tb SEP CASSIA SEP 3C, SEP 9G SEP 4C, SEP 9G tb SEP NUTSEDGE SEP 10E SEP 10E tb SEP CRABGRASS SEP 4C, SEP 9H SEP 2C, SEP 9G tb SEP BARNYARDGRASS SEP 5C, SEP 9H SEP 3C, SEP 9H tb SEP WILD SEP OATS SEP 1C, SEP 9G SEP 2C, SEP 8G tb SEP WHEAT SEP 7G SEP 4G tb SEP CORN SEP 9G SEP 9G tb SEP SOYBEAN SEP 9H SEP 9H tb SEP RICE SEP 10E SEP 10E tb SEP SORGHUM SEP 9H SEP 9G tb Table A cont d EMI96.1 EMI96.2 tb SEP kg ha SEP 0.4 SEP 0.4 SEP 0.4 tb SEP POST EMERGENCE tb SEP BUSHBEAN SEP 9C SEP 9C SEP 5C, SEP 8G, SEP 6Y tb SEP COTTON SEP 6C, SEP 9G SEP 9C SEP 2C, SEP 8G tb SEP MORGNINGGLORY SEP 10C SEP 10C SEP 1C tb SEP COCKLEBUR SEP 9C SEP 9C SEP 1H, SEP 6F tb SEP CASSIA SEP SEP 9C SEP 1C, SEP 6G tb SEP NUTSEDGE SEP 1C, SEP 7G SEP 5G SEP 4G tb SEP CRABGRASS SEP 1C, SEP 6G SEP 5G SEP 2G tb SEP BARNYARDGRASS SEP 10C SEP 2C, SEP 8H SEP 2C, SEP 6H tb SEP WILD SEP OATS SEP 2C, SEP 8G, SEP 5X SEP 0 SEP 1C tb WHEAT SEP 9C SEP 1C SEP 1C tb SEP CORN SEP 9C SEP 9G SEP 2C, SEP 8H tb SEP SOYBEAN SEP 9C SEP 5C, SEP 9G SEP 6G tb SEP RICE SEP 5C, SEP 8G SEP 3C, SEP 8G SEP 6G tb SEP SORGHUM SEP 9C SEP 9G SEP 1C, SEP 9G tb SEP PRE EMERGENCE tb SEP MORGNINGGLORY SEP 9G SEP 9G SEP 0 tb SEP COCKLEBUR SEP 9H SEP 9H SEP 4G tb SEP CASSIA SEP 9G SEP 9G SEP 1C tb SEP NUTSEDGE SEP 10E SEP 9G SEP 5G tb SEP CRABGRASS SEP 2G SEP 0 SEP 0 tb SEP BARNYARDGRASS SEP 3C, SEP 9H SEP 1C, SEP 7G SEP 5H tb SEP WILD SEP OATS SEP 8G SEP 4G SEP 2G tb SEP WHEAT SEP 6G SEP 0 SEP 2G tb SEP CORN SEP 1U, SEP 9G SEP 1U, SEP 9G SEP 1C, SEP 8G tb SEP SOYBEAN SEP 8H SEP 8H SEP 1C tb SEP RICE SEP 10E SEP 10E SEP 9H tb SEP SORGHUM SEP 9H SEP 9H SEP 1C, SEP 9G tb Table A cont d EMI97.1 EMI97.2 tb SEP kg ha SEP 0.4 SEP 0.4 tb SEP POST EMERGENCE tb SEP BUSHBEAN SEP 9C SEP 9C tb SEP COTTON SEP 5C, SEP 9G SEP 2U, SEP 5C, SEP 9G tb SEP MORGNINGGLORY SEP 9C SEP 9C tb SEP COCKLEBUR SEP 5C, SEP 9G SEP 9C tb SEP CASSIA SEP 1C, SEP 5G SEP 8C tb SEP NUTSEDGE SEP 9G SEP 9C tb SEP CRABGRASS SEP 5C, SEP 8G SEP 2C, SEP 7G tb SEP BARNYARDGRASS SEP 9 SEP 10C tb SEP WILD SEP OATS SEP 2C, SEP 9G SEP 5C, SEP 9G tb WHEAT SEP 2C, SEP 9G SEP 4C, SEP 8G tb SEP CORN SEP 9C SEP 8U, SEP 9C tb SEP SOYBEAN SEP 9C SEP 4C, SEP 9G tb SEP RICE SEP 5C, SEP 9G SEP 5C, SEP 9G tb SEP SORGHUM SEP 2C, SEP 9G SEP 5Z, SEP 9C tb SEP PRE EMERGENCE tb SEP MORGNINGGLORY SEP 8G SEP 9G tb SEP COCKLEBUR SEP 8H SEP 9G tb SEP CASSIA SEP 8G SEP 4C, SEP 9G tb SEP NUTSEDGE SEP 10E SEP 10E tb SEP CRABGRASS SEP 3G SEP 2C, SEP 8G tb SEP BARNYARDGRASS SEP 9H SEP 4C, SEP 9G tb SEP WILD SEP OATS SEP 1C, SEP 8G SEP 3C, SEP 9G tb SEP WHEAT SEP 1C, SEP 8G SEP 1C, SEP 9G tb SEP CORN SEP 1C, SEP 9G SEP 9H tb SEP SOYBEAN SEP 6H SEP 9H tb SEP RICE SEP 10E SEP tb SEP SORGHUM SEP 9H SEP 2C, SEP 9H tb Test 9 Two plastic bulb pans were filled with fertilized and limed Fallsington silt loam soil. One pan was planted with corn, sorghum, Kentucky bluegrass and several grassy weeds. The other pan was planted with cotton, soybeans, purple nutsedge Cyperus rotundus , and several broadleaf weeds.The following grassy and broadleaf weeds were planted crabgrass Diqitaria sanguinalis , barnyardgrass Echinochloa crusgalli , wild oats Avena fatua , johnsongrass Sorghum halepense , dallisgrass Paspalum dilatatum , giant foxtail Setaria faberii , cheatgrass Bromus secalinus , mustard Brassica arvensis , cocklebur Xanthium pennsylvanicum , pigweed Amaranthus retroflexus , morningglory Ipomoea hederacea , cassia Cassia tora , teaweed Sida spinosa , velvetleaf Abutilon theophrasti , and jimsonweed Datura stramonium . A 12.5 cm diameter plastic pot was also filled with prepared soil and planted with rice and wheat. Anather 12.5 cm pot was planted with sugarbeets. The above four containers were treated pre emergence with several test compounds within the scope of the invention. Twenty eight days after treatment, the plants were evaluated and visually rated for response to the chemical treatments utilizing the rating system described previously for Test A. The data are summarized in Table B. Note that certain compounds are useful as pre emergence treatments for weed control in wheat. Table BPRE EMERGENCE ON FALLSINGTON SILT LOAMEMI99.1 EMI99.2 tb rate SEP kg ha SEP 0.06 SEP 0.25 tb SEP CRABGRASS SEP 0 SEP 2G tb SEP BARNVARDGRASS SEP 0 SEP 3G, SEP 2H tb SEP SORGUHUM SEP 0 SEP 0 tb SEP WILD SEP OARS SEP 0 SEP 2H tb SEP JOHNSONGRASS SEP SEP 10E tb SEP DALLISGRASS SEP 0 SEP 3H tb SEP GIANT SEP FOXTAIL SEP 3H SEP 5G, SEP 5C tb SEP KY. SEP BLUEGRASS SEP 5G, SEP 5C SEP 5C, SEP 7C tb SEP CHEATGRASS SEP 3G SEP 7G, SEP 7C tb SEP SUGARBEETS SEP 5G SEP 3G tb SEP CORN SEP 0 SEP 7G, SEP 3C tb SEP MUSTARD SEP 7C, SEP 3C SEP 7G, SEP 3C tb SEP COCKLEBUR SEP SEP 5G tb SEP PIGWEED SEP SEP tb SEP NUTSEDGE SEP 0 SEP 6G tb SEP COTTON SEP 0 SEP 4G tb SEP MORNINGGLORY SEP 4G SEP 4G tb SEP CASSIA SEP 0 SEP 5G, SEP 2C tb SEP IESWEED SEP 0 SEP tb SEP VELVETLEAF SEP 0 SEP 2G tb SEP JIMSPWEED SEP 0 SEP 3G tb SEP SOYBEAN SEP 0 SEP 4G, SEP 2H tb SEP RICE SEP 4G SEP 7G, SEP 5H tb SEP WHEAT SEP 0 SEP 3G tb Table B cont d PRE EMERGENCE ON FALISINGTON SILT LOAMEMI100.1 EMI100.2 tb rate SEP kg ha SEP 0.06 SEP 0.25 tb SEP CRABGRASS SEP 0 SEP 0 tb SEP BARNVARDGRASS SEP 0 SEP 0 tb SEP SORGUHUM SEP 5G, SEP 3H SEP 7G, SEP 3H tb SEP WILD SEP OARS SEP 0 SEP 4G tb SEP JOHNSONGRASS SEP 0 SEP 3G tb SEP DALLISGRASS SEP 0 SEP 0 tb SEP Giant SEP foxtail SEP 0 tb SEP Ky. SEP bluegrass SEP 0 SEP 5G tb SEP Cheatprass SEP O SEP SEP 3G tb SEP Sugarbeets SEP 8G, SEP 8C SEP 9G, SEP 9C tb SEP Corn SEP 5G SEP 9G tb SEP Mustard SEP 8G.6C SEP 9G,9C tb SEP COCKLEBUR SEP 7G, SEP 3H SEP 8G, SEP 5H tb SEP PIGWEED SEP 10C SEP 10C tb SEP NUTSEDGE SEP 5G SEP 7G tb SEP COTTON SEP 8G, SEP 5H SEP 9G, SEP 5C tb SEP MORNINGGLORY SEP 7G, SEP 3H SEP 8G, SEP 3H tb SEP CASSIA SEP 9G, SEP 9C SEP 8G, SEP 7C tb SEP TESWEED SEP 3G SEP 6G tb SEP VELVETLEAF SEP 5G SEP 7G, SEP 7C tb SEP JIMSPWEED SEP 0 SEP 6G, SEP 4C tb SEP SOYBEAN SEP 6G, SEP 3H SEP 8G, SEP 5H tb SEP RICE SEP 5G SEP 6G, SEP 4C tb SEP WHEAT SEP 0 SEP 0 tb Table B cont d PRE EMERGENCE ON FALISINGTON SILT LOAMEMI101.1 EMI101.2 tb rate SEP kg ha SEP 0.03 SEP 0.12 tb SEP CRABGRASS SEP 2G SEP 7G tb SEP BARNVARDGRASS SEP 4G SEP 5G, SEP 4C tb SEP SORGUHUM SEP 6G, SEP 5H SEP 8G, SEP 5H tb SEP WILD SEP OARS SEP 0 SEP 3G tb SEP JOHNSONGRASS SEP 0 SEP 0 tb SEP DALLISGRASS SEP 0 SEP 2G tb SEP GIANT SEP FOXTAIL SEP 0 SEP 3G tb SEP KY. SEP BLUEGRASS SEP 3G SEP 6G, SEP 5C tb SEP CHEATGRASS SEP 0 SEP 6G, SEP 3C tb SEP SUGARBEETS SEP 8G, SEP 8C SEP 10C tb SEP CORN SEP 7G SEP 8G, SEP 5C tb MUSTARD SEP 8G, SEP 9C SEP 10C tb SEP COCKLEBUR SEP 7G SEP 7G tb SEP PIGWEED SEP SEP tb SEP NUTSEDGE SEP 6G SEP 7G tb SEP COTTON SEP 8G, SEP 5H SEP 8G, SEP 5H tb SEP MORNINGGLORY SEP 7G, SEP 3H SEP 8G, SEP 3H tb SEP CASSIA SEP 8G SEP 9G, SEP 5C tb SEP TEAWEED SEP 9G, SEP 6C SEP 5G, SEP 5C tb SEP VELVETLEAF SEP 9G, SEP 9C SEP 9G, SEP 9C tb SEP JIMSPWEED SEP 0 SEP 5G, SEP 5C tb SEP SOYBEAN SEP 8G, SEP 5H SEP 9G, SEP 9C tb SEP RICE SEP 7G, SEP 3C SEP 7G, SEP 7C tb SEP WHEAT SEP 0 SEP 0 tb Table B cont d PRE EMERGENCE ON FALLSINGTON SILT LOAMEMI102.1 EMI102.2 tb SEP rate SEP kg ha SEP 0.06 SEP 0.25 tb SEP CRABGRASS SEP 0 SEP 4G tb SEP BARNVARDGRASS SEP 0 SEP 6G, SEP 3C tb SEP SORGUHUM SEP 8G, SEP 5H SEP 10C tb SEP WILD SEP OARS SEP 3G SEP 5G, SEP 3H tb SEP JOHNSONGRASS SEP 4G, SEP 2H SEP 8G, SEP 5H tb SEP DALLISGRASS SEP 0 SEP 7G tb SEP GIANT SEP FOXTAIL SEP 3G SEP 5G tb SEP KY. SEP BLUEGRASS SEP 5G SEP 10C tb SEP CHEATGRASS SEP 6G, SEP 3C SEP 10E tb SEP SUGARBEETS SEP 6G, SEP 3H SEP 7G, SEP 3H tb SEP CORN SEP 3G SEP 9G, SEP 5H tb SEP MUSTARD SEP 6G, SEP 4C SEP 7G, SEP 5C tb SEP COCKLEBUR SEP 6G SEP 5G tb PIGWEED SEP SEP tb SEP NUTSEDGE SEP 7G SEP 10E tb SEP COTTON SEP 6G SEP 5G tb SEP MORNINGGLORY SEP 0 SEP 4G tb SEP CASSIA SEP 0 SEP 8G, SEP 4C tb SEP IESWEED SEP 0 SEP 4G tb SEP VELVETLEAF SEP 4G SEP 2G tb SEP JIMSPWEED SEP 0 SEP 0 tb SEP SOYBEAN SEP 0 SEP 5G, SEP 5H tb SEP RICE SEP 8G, SEP 8C SEP 10E tb SEP WHEAT SEP 3G SEP 6G, SEP 2C tb Table B cont d PRE EMETGENCE ON FALISINGTON SILT LOAMEMI103.1 EMI103.2 tb rate SEP kg ha SEP 0.06 SEP 0.25 tb SEP CRABGRASS SEP 0 SEP 4G tb SEP BARNVARDGRASS SEP 3G SEP 8G, SEP 3H tb SEP SORGUHUM SEP 4G SEP 10C tb SEP WILD SEP OARS SEP 0 SEP 7G, SEP 5C tb SEP JOHNSONGRASS SEP 5G SEP 10C tb SEP DALLISGRASS SEP 3G SEP 7G tb SEP GIANT SEP FOXTAIL SEP 5G, SEP 3H SEP 7G, SEP 5C tb SEP KY. SEP BLUEGRASS SEP 6G, SEP 2C SEP 10C tb SEP CHEATGRASS SEP 7G, SEP 6C SEP 10C tb SEP SUGARBEETS SEP 5G, SEP 2C SEP 10C tb SEP CORN SEP 6G SEP 9G, SEP 9C tb SEP MUSTARD SEP 6G SEP 10C tb SEP COCKLEBUR SEP 4G SEP 8G, SEP 3C tb SEP PIGWEED SEP 10C SEP 10C tb SEP NUTSEDGE SEP 6G SEP 9G tb SEP COTTON SEP 4G SEP 6G tb SEP MORNINGGLORY SEP 0 SEP 3G tb SEP CASSIA SEP 3G SEP 9G, SEP 9C tb SEP IESWEED SEP 0 SEP 6G, SEP 4C tb SEP VELVETLEAF SEP 0 SEP 6G, SEP 4C tb SEP JIMSPWEED SEP 0 SEP 4G tb SEP SOYBEAN SEP 3G SEP 7G, SEP 5H tb SEP RICE SEP 6G, SEP 4C SEP 10C tb SEP WHEAT SEP 2G SEP 5G tb Test C Twenty five cm diameter plastic pots filled withFallsington silt loam were planted with soybeans, cotton, alfalfa, corn, rice, wheat, sorghum, velvetleaf Abutilon theophrasti , sesbania Sesbania exaltata , Cassia Cassia tora , morningglory Ipomoea hederacea , jimsonweed Datura stramonium , cocklebur Xanthium pennsylvanicum , crabgrass Digitaria spp. , nutsedge Cyperus rotundus , barnyardgrass Echinochloa crusgalli , giant foxtail Setaria faberii and wild oats Avena fatua .Approximately two weeks after planting, the young plants and the soil around them were sprayed overall with the test chemicals dissolved in a non phytotoxic solvent. Two weeks after treatment, all species were compared to untreated controls and visually rated for response to treatment. The rating system was as described previously for Test A. The data are presented in Table C. The compounds tested by this procedure are useful for the post emergence control of weeds in wheat. Table CEMI105.1 EMI105.2 tb Rate SEP kg ha SEP 0.125 SEP 0.031 SEP 0.063 tb SEP Soybeans SEP 10G, SEP 6C SEP 10G, SEP 5C SEP 10G, SEP 8C tb SEP Velvetleaf SEP 9C SEP 7G, SEP 2C SEP 10C tb SEP Sesbania SEP 9C SEP 7G, SEP 3C SEP 10G, SEP 8C tb SEP Cassia SEP 10G, SEP 7C SEP 10G, SEP 5C SEP 10G, SEP 7C tb SEP Cotton SEP 9G, SEP 7C SEP 7G, SEP 3C SEP 10G, SEP 7C tb SEP Morningglory SEP 10G, SEP 7C SEP 7G, SEP 3C SEP 10G, SEP 5C tb SEP Alfalfa SEP 5G, SEP 2C SEP 9G, SEP 6C SEP 9G, SEP 5C tb SEP Jimsonweed SEP 6G SEP 4G SEP 8G, SEP 5C tb SEP Cocklebur SEP 10G, SEP 6C SEP 8G, SEP 2C SEP 10G, SEP 9C tb SEP Corn SEP 8G, SEP 3C SEP 6G, SEP 5H SEP 10G, SEP 4C tb SEP Crabrass SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 2G, SEP 1C tb SEP Rice SEP 7G, SEP 2C SEP 3G, SEP 2C SEP tb SEP Nutsedge SEP 7G SEP 4G SEP 9G, SEP 7C tb SEP Barnyardgrass SEP 8G, SEP 3C SEP 2G SEP 9G, SEP 2C tb SEP Wheat SEP 2G SEP 0 SEP 2G tb SEP Giant SEP Foxtail SEP SEP SEP 6G, SEP 1C tb SEP Wild SEP Oats SEP 2G SEP 0 SEP 7G, SEP 1C tb SEP Sorghum SEP 9G, SEP 3C SEP 7G, SEP 2C SEP 9G, SEP 3G tb Table C cont d EMI106.1 EMI106.2 tb Rate SEP kg ha SEP 0.125 SEP 0.031 tb SEP Soybeans SEP 10G, SEP 9C SEP 10G, SEP 8C tb SEP Velvetleaf SEP 10C SEP 10C tb SEP Sesbania SEP 10G, SEP 9C SEP 10G, SEP 8C tb SEP Cassia SEP 10G, SEP 9C SEP 10G, SEP 4C tb SEP Cotton SEP 10G, SEP 8C SEP 10G, SEP 4C tb SEP Morningglory SEP 10G, SEP 9C SEP 10G, SEP 8C tb SEP Alfalfa SEP 10G, SEP 9C SEP 10G, SEP 9C tb SEP Jimsonweed SEP 10G, SEP 7C SEP 10C tb SEP Cocklebur SEP 9G, SEP 2C SEP 8G, SEP 2C tb SEP Corn SEP 10G, SEP 7C SEP 10G, SEP 7C tb SEP Crabrass SEP 5G SEP 3G tb SEP Rice SEP 10G, SEP 3C SEP 10G, SEP 2C tb SEP Nutsedge SEP 9G, SEP 3C SEP 8G, SEP 2C tb SEP Barnyardgrass SEP 5G, SEP 1C SEP 4G tb SEP Wheat SEP 0 SEP 0 tb SEP Giant SEP Foxtail SEP 8G, SEP 2C SEP 7G, SEP 1C tb SEP Wild SEP Oats SEP 4G SEP 4G tb SEP Sorghum SEP 10G, SEP 3C SEP 10G, SEP 2C tb Test O Two ten inch in diameter plastic pans lined with polyethylene liners were filled with prepared Fallsington silt loam soil.One pan was planted with seeds of wheat Triticum aestivum , barley Hordeum vulgare , wild oats Avena fatua , downy brome Bromus tectorum , cheatgrass Bromus secalinus , blackgrass Alopecurus myosuroides , annual bluegrass Poa annua , green foxtail Setaria viridis , quackgrass Agropyron repens , Italian ryegrass Lolium multiflorum and ripgut brome Bromus rioidus .The other pan was planted with seeds of Russian thistle Salsola kali , tansy mustard Descuraina oinnata , smartweed Polygonum pennsylvanicum , tumble mustard Sisymbrium altissium kochia Kochia scoparia , shepherd s purse Capsella bursa pastoris , Matricaria inodora, black nightshade Solanum nirum , yellow rocket Barbarea vulgaris , wild mustard Brassica kaber and wild buckwheat Polygonum convolvulus . The above two pans were treated pre emergence. At the same time two pans in which the above plant species were growing were treated post emergence. Plant height at the time of treatment ranged from 1 15 cm depending on plant species. The compounds applied were diluted with a non phytotoxic solvent and sprayed over the top of the pans. An untreated control and a solvent alone control were included for camparison. All treatments were maintained in the greenhouse for 20 days at which time the treatments were compared to the controls and the effects visually rated. The recorded data are presented inTable 0. The rating system used was as described forTest A. The data indicate the utility of the test compounds for pre and post emergence weed control in crops such as wheat and barley. Table DEMI108.1 EMI108.2 tb SEP Post emergence SEP Pre emergence tb Rate SEP kg ha SEP 0.015 SEP 0.015 tb SEP wheat SEP 0 SEP 0 tb SEP barley SEP 0 SEP 0 tb SEP wild SEP oats SEP 0 SEP 0 tb SEP downy SEP brome SEP 0 SEP 1G tb SEP cheatgrass SEP 1G SEP 1C, SEP 1G tb SEP blackgrass SEP 1G SEP 1C, SEP 2G tb SEP annual SEP bluegrass SEP 2G SEP 2C, SEP 3G tb SEP green SEP foxtail SEP 1G SEP 1G tb SEP quackgrass SEP 0 SEP 2G tb SEP Italian SEP ryegrass SEP 1G SEP 1C, SEP 2G tb SEP ripgut SEP bromo SEP 0 SEP 1G tb SEP Russian SEP thistle SEP 7C SEP 3C, SEP 4G tb SEP tansy SEP mustard SEP 8C SEP 7C, SEP 8G tb SEP smartweed SEP 7C SEP 7C, SEP 7G tb SEP limhill SEP mustard SEP 10C SEP 10C tb SEP Kochia SEP 7C, SEP 7G SEP 9C tb SEP zphepherd s SEP purse SEP 10C SEP 8C, SEP 9G tb SEP false SEP chamomile SEP 7C, SEP 7G SEP 1C, SEP 3G tb SEP blank SEP nightshade SEP 1C, SEP 2G SEP 3C, SEP 5G tb SEP vellow SEP rocket SEP 9C SEP 5C, SEP 7G tb SEP wild SEP mustard SEP 10C SEP 9C tb SEP wild SEP buckwheat SEP 4C, SEP 5G SEP 3C, SEP 4G tb Table D cont d EMI109.1 EMI109.2 tb SEP Post emergence SEP Pre emergence tb Rate SEP kg ha SEP 0.06 SEP 0.06 tb SEP wheat SEP 0 tb SEP barley SEP 0 SEP 1C, SEP 2G tb SEP wild SEP oats SEP 0 SEP 2C, SEP 2G tb SEP downy SEP brome SEP 2C, SEP 2G SEP 3C, SEP 3G tb SEP cheatgrass SEP 1c, SEP 2G SEP 3C, SEP 4G tb SEP blackgrass SEP 1G SEP 2C, SEP 4G tb SEP annual SEP bluegrass SEP 1C,2G SEP 2C,3G tb SEP green SEP foxtail SEP 2G SEP 2C, SEP 3G SEP tb SEP guackrass SEP 2C, SEP 2G SEP 4C, SEP 5G tb SEP Italian SEP ryegrass SEP 2C, SEP 3G SEP 3C, SEP 5G tb SEP ripgut SEP brome SEP 1C,2G SEP 1C SEP 2G SEP tb SEP Russian SEP thistle SEP 10C SEP 8C tb SEP tansy SEP mustard SEP 10C SEP 9C tb SEP smartweed SEP 10C SEP 7C, SEP 8G tb SEP limhill SEP mustard SEP 1 SEP C SEP lOC tb SEP Kochia SEP 10C SEP 9C tb SEP shepherd s SEP purse SEP SEP lOC SEP lOC tb SEP false SEP chamomile SEP 10C SEP 7C, SEP 8G tb SEP black SEP nightshade SEP 7C, SEP 8G SEP 7C, SEP 8G tb SEP yellow SEP rocket SEP 10C SEP 9C tb SEP wild SEP mustard SEP 10C SEP 9C tb SEP wild SEP buckwheat SEP 8C SEP 5C, SEP 7G tb Table D cont d EMI110.1 EMI110.2 tb SEP Post emergence SEP Pre emergence tb SEP Rate SEP kg ha SEP 0.125 SEP 0.125 tb SEP wheat SEP 0 SEP 0 tb SEP barley SEP 0 SEP 0 tb SEP wild SEP oats SEP 0 SEP 0 tb SEP downy SEP brome SEP 1C, SEP 3G SEP 3G tb SEP cheatgrass SEP 2C, SEP 5G SEP 6G tb SEP blackgrass SEP SEP 4G tb SEP annual SEP bluegrass SEP 3G SEP 3G tb SEP green SEP foxtail SEP 0 SEP 0 tb SEP quackgrass SEP 1G SEP 3G tb SEP Italian SEP ryegrass SEP 4C, SEP 5G SEP 3G tb SEP ripgut SEP bromo SEP 0 SEP 1G tb SEP Russian SEP thistle SEP 10C SEP 4C, SEP 4G tb SEP tansy SEP mustard SEP 10C SEP 9C, SEP 9G tb SEP smartweed SEP SEP tb SEP limhill SEP mustard SEP 10C SEP 9C, SEP 9G tb SEP Kochia SEP 10C SEP 6C, SEP 7G tb zphepherd s SEP purse SEP 10C SEP 9C, SEP 9G tb SEP false SEP chamomile SEP 10C SEP 8C, SEP 8G tb SEP blank SEP nightshade SEP SEP 4C, SEP 5G tb SEP vellow SEP rocket SEP 10C SEP 7C, SEP 8G tb SEP wild SEP mustard SEP 10C SEP 10C tb SEP wild SEP buckwheat SEP 9C SEP 4C, SEP 5G tb Table D cont d EMI111.1 EMI111.2 tb SEP Post emergence SEP Pre emergence tb SEP Rate SEP hg ha SEP 0.03 SEP 0.03 tb wheat SEP 0 SEP 0 tb barley SEP 0 SEP 0 tb wild SEP oats SEP 0 SEP 0 tb downy SEP brome SEP 1G SEP 2G tb cheatgrass SEP 2G SEP 2G tb blackgrass SEP SEP 2G tb annual SEP bluegrass SEP 1G SEP 1G tb green SEP foxtail SEP 0 SEP 0 tb quackgrass SEP 0 SEP 1G tb Italian SEP ryegrass SEP 2C, SEP 2G SEP 0 tb ripgut SEP bromo SEP 0 SEP 0 tb Russian SEP thistle SEP 10C SEP 0 tb tansy SEP mustard SEP 10C SEP 2C, SEP 7G tb smartweed SEP SEP tb limhill SEP mustard SEP 10C SEP 4C, SEP 7G tb Kochia SEP 10C SEP 5G tb zphepherd s SEP purse SEP 10C SEP 8C, SEP 9G tb false SEP chamomile SEP 9C, SEP 9G SEP 5C, SEP 8G tb blank SEP nightshade SEP SEP 2G tb vellow SEP rocket SEP 10C SEP 5C, SEP 7G tb wild SEP mustard SEP 10C SEP 7C, SEP 7G tb wild SEP buckwheat SEP 4C, SEP 3G SEP 2C, SEP 3G tb Test E Purple nutsedge Cyperus rotundus tubers were planted about 2 cm deep in Fallsington silt loam soil contained in 10 cm diameter plastic pots. Five tubers were planted in each pot. Compounds of this invention were dissolved in a non phytotoxic diluent and sprayed at 560 l ha in four methods of application soil surface, tuber soil, soil incorporated and post emergence. The soil surface spray consisted of spraying the compound on the surface of the firmed covering soil. The tuber soil spray consisted of spraying the compound on exposed tubers and subtending soil before adding the untreated covering soil. Soil incorporated treatment consisted in mixing the compound with the covering soil before using it to cover the tubers. The post emergence treatment was sprayed on nutsedge foliage and the surrounding soil surface when nutsedge had emerged and grown to a height of about 12 cm. Pots receiving the post emergence treatments were placed directly in the greenhouse. Pots receiving the other treatments were misted with about 0.3 cm water before being transferred to the greenhouse. Response ratings assessed after four weeks are recorded in Table E based on the same rating system as described in procedureA. It may be seen that the test compound has utility for the control of nutsedge. Test E Nuts wedge TestEMI113.1 EMI113.2 tb SEP Response SEP Rating SEP After SEP 4 SEP weeks tb Rate SEP Preemerg. SEP SEP Tuber SEP Soil tb kg ha SEP Soil SEP Surface SEP SEP Spray SEP Incorp. SEP Postemerg. tb 1 128 SEP 2G SEP 3G SEP 3G SEP 0 tb 1 32 SEP 7G SEP 7G SEP 7G SEP 2G tb 1 8 SEP 8G SEP 8G SEP 8G SEP 4G tb 1 2 SEP 9G SEP 9G SEP 9G SEP lOC tb