# Elevator cab load measuring system.

## Abstract
Transducers TR1 and TR2 are located between the elevator cab 10 and the supporting frame 12 at points which lie along a line 35 that passes through the cab center of deflection 34. These transducers produce an analog output whose magnitude varies proportionally with the force applied through the transducer to the cab. The outputs of the transducers are summed together to give a signal propor tional to cab weight irrespective of the distribution of the weight. The actual sum corresponding to the empty car con dition is subtracted from the sum of the outputs of the trans ducers and the remainder is multiplied by the actual ratio between changes in car weight and changes in the sum of the transducer outputs. This yields the cab load.

## Claims
Claims 1. An elevator system wherein the cab is supported on a frame and passenger duty load is determined by means of a system comprising apparatus which is located between the cab and the frame and through which a portion of the overall cab supporting force is transmitted to a selected point or points on the cab, said apparatus generating a signal associated with the or each point, the magnitude of said sgnal s manifesting the force transmitted therethrough to the cab, the location of said point s being such that the supporting force transmitted through said point s is the same for a given weight regardless of the distribution of the weight in the cab, and means for summing said signals where there is more than one said signal, and for scaling said signal or said sum to determine passenger duty load. 2. An elevator system according to claim 1, wherein said apparatus includes a force transducer which is located substantially at the cab center of deflection. 3. An elevator system according to claim 1 wherein said apparatus includes two force transducers which are located on a straight line that passes substantially through the cab center of deflection at opposite points thereon with respect to the center of deflection. ii. An elevator system according to claims 1, 2 or 3 wherein the cab is resiliently supported at a plurality of support points including the point s to which force is transmitted through said apparatus to the cab. 5. An elevator system as claimed in any preceding claim comprising processing means for summing said signals when there is more than one said signal for assigning a cab weight parameter to said sum or signal for subtracting a first cab weight parameter reflecting the actual empty cab weight from said assigned parameter to produce a weight change parameter and for multiplying said weight change parameter by a second weight related parameter reflecting the relationship between the change in said sum or signal and actual cab weight to produce a second parameter reflecting the passenger duty load. 6. An elevator system according to claim 5 further comprising processing means for storing a third predetermined parameter reflecting estimated empty cab weight and a fourth parameter reflecting an estimated relationship between said sum and actual cab weight, and for adding corrections to said stored estimated parameters to generate said first and second cab weight parameters. 7. An elevator system according to claim 6, further comprising means for adjustably setting and generating said corrections, and processing means for selecting said corrections each time the passenger duty load is determined. 8. An elevator system according to claim 7, further comprising a multiplexer for sequentially selecting the or each said signal and said corrections, and processing means for controlling said multiplexer to sequentially select the or each signal and said corrections prior to the detennination of passenger load. 9. An elevator system according to claim 8, wherein, said signal s and said corrections are analog signals, and further comprising an A D converter, processing means for controlling said A D converter to convert each said signal and correction to a digital format, for use by said processor, following the selection of each said signal and correction. 10. An elevator system according to any of claims 6 to 9 wherein the correction for said first parameter reflects the difference between actual and estimated empty cab weight and said correction to said second parameter reflects the difference between estimated and actual full, maximum cab weight. il. An elevator system according to claim 10 wherein said corrections are obtained by adjusting said correction setting means when the cab is empty and fully loaded. 12. An elevator system wherein a cab is supported resiliently on frame at selected support points and cab weight is determined through the use of a load weighing system comprising two transducers which are located between the cab and the frame and through which a cab supporting force is transmitted to two corresponding points on the cab, each transducer generating a signal having a magnitude reflecting the force transmitted through the transducer to its corresponding point on the cab, said transducers being located at oppo site sides of the cab center of deflection andon a line that passes substantially through the center of deflection, and means for summing said signals, for scaling said sum to determine cab load and for subtracting empty cab load to determine passenger duty load. 13. An elevator system wherein the cab is supported on a frame and cab weight is determined through the use of a load weighing system which operates by sensing a supporting force between the frame and the cab at selected points which are related in that the aggregate force supporting the cab at those points is the same regardless of the weight distribution in the cab, generating a signal which is proportional to the sensed force at each point, and summing said signals, scaling said signals to determine cab load, and subtracting the empty cab load from the determined cab load to determine passenger duty load. 14. An elevator system according to claim 13 wherein said force is sensed at two points which are on opposite sides of the cab center of deflection and on a straight line substantially passing therethrough. 15. A load weighing system for use in an elevator system wherein the cab is supported on a frame, said system comprising apparatus which is located between the cab and the frame, said apparatus transmitting supporting force to the cab at selected points on the cab and generating a signal associated with each point, the magnitude of the signal reflecting the force transmitted to its corresponding point, said points being selected so that the sum of the forces at the pcints is substantially the same for a given weight regardless of the distribution of the weight in the car, and means for summing said signals, for scaling said sum to determine cab load and for subtracting empty cab load to determine passenger duty load. 16. A system according to claim 15 wherein said apparatus comprises a force transducer located substantially at the cab center of deflection. 17. A system according to claim 15 wherein said apparatus comprises two force transducers located at opposite sides of the cab center of deflection and on a straight line which passes substantially therethrough. 18. A system according to claim 15, 16 or 17 wherein the cab is resiliently supported at a plurality of support points including the points to which force is transmitted through the transducers. 19. An elevator passenger load detecting system for use with a cab structure wherein the cab is supported in a frame to which the cab hoisting apparatus connects, said system comprising two force responsive transducers which provide an output signal whose magnitude changes in proportion to the force applied by said transducers, said transducers being located between the frame and the cab along a line substantially through the cab s center of deflection, said transducers being oppositely located with respect to the center 6f deflection, and processing means for storing an estimated empty cab weight value and estimated change in the sum of said signals between said estimated empty weight and an estimated full cab weight for adding externally applied corrections to said stored parameters every time passenger load is computed to generate an actual empty cab weight value which equals the weight value reflected by the sum of said signals for an empty cab, and a full cab weight value which equals the weight value reflected by said sum when the cab is actually full for subtracting said actual empty weight value from the weight value reflected by said sum for multiplying the remainder by a coefficient reflecting the ratio between the sum and the difference between said actual empty weight and said actual full cab weight, and adjustable means for generating said corrections. 20. For use with a passenger duty load measuring system wherein passenger duty load is determined from empty cab weight and full cab weight, a calibration method comprising storing estimated weight values for the full and empty cab conditions, said estimated weight values being different from actual weight values, adjusting a trimmer circuit to produce a selectable correction parameter representing the difference between the stored empty weight value and the actual empty weight value for the cab, placing a weight in the cab, said weight equalling the maximum passenger load, adjusting a second trimmer circuit to produce a second selectable correctipn parameter representing the difference between the stored full weight value and the actual weight value obtained with said weight in the cab.

## Description
Description Elevator Cab Load treasuring SystemTechnical Field This invention relates to equipment for measuring elevator cab loads.Background Art Superior elevator performance is possible by controlling elevator cab movement in relation to actual cab loads. The ride, for. instance, can be smoother because unacceptable acceleration and deceleration rates can be avoided by controlling motor torque as a function of actual weight uneven or jerky car movement is thus prevented. Changes in cab weight at the floors can also provide an indication of car usage and from that cab allocation can be made in a way that providers minimum service request response time. The capability to know the cab weight at any instant in time consequently can be very useful in providing efficient, comfortable elevator service, mainly because operation can be tailored, in a dynamic way, to actual cab conditions.This capability also provides the possibility to conserve energy by tailoring power usage tp actual requirements. Systems that determine elevator cab weight have been in use for some time, and all of them operate on basically the same principle they measure a displacement resulting from the change in cab weight. The majority of these systems measure the change in the size of shock absorbing springs or pads that support the elevator cab withIn a surrounding car support structure to which the hoist ropes are connected. As the cab weight within that support structure increases, these support devices are compressed and the extent to which that compression changes with loads manifests the reactive force they exert on the cab to support the load thus it also indicates the load changes. By correlating the changes that occur when the cab is loaded and empty, the load can be determined but no with very great precision or repeatability.Other related systems measure the entire displacement, relative to the shaftway, from the stretching. that takes place in the hoist ropes as the loads change. Displacement measuring systems do not necessarily provide accurate, repeatable results and thus precise car motion control is not possible. One factor contributing to those inaccu racies is the inherent hysteresis in the elastomeric material used in the pads that are found in most systems for providing ride cushioning.This hysteresis often is significant and unpredictable and is particularly susceptible to changes in relation totemperature. Because of this, a system which is premised upon measuring the displacement of all the supporting buffers in order to determine the aggregate reactive force cannot be exceedingly precise. The inaccuracies are even worse in systems premised on sensing the change in cable length. One reason is that the length of the cable supporting the cab is not the same at the top and bottom of the shaftway, and as a result, the amount of cable stretch that occurs for a given weight is different at different points in the shaft.Another reason is that the stretch is. determined by the entire weight of the car structure, but that weight is significantly greater than the changes in sensed cab loads. Consequently, most of the cable stretch occurs from the entire car weight frame and cab . These systems therefore have poor resolution as well. Thus the state of the art manifests a pronounced need for far more precise load sensig weighing systems Disclosure of Invention According to the invention, there is provided an elevator system wherein the cab is supported on a frame and passengerlduty load is determined by means of a system comprising apparatus which is located between the cab and the frame and through which a portion of the overall cab supporting force is transmitted to a selected point or points on the cab, said apparatus generating a signal associated with the or each point, the magnitude of said signal s manifesting the force transmitted therethrough to the cab, the location of said point s being such that the supporting force transmitted through said point s is the same for a given weight regardless of the distribution of the weight in the cab, and means for summing said signals where there is more than one said signal, and for scaling said signal or said surn to determine passenger duty load. Rather than measuring cab weight indirectly, b first measuring displacement and from that determining the reactive force applied to the cab from an ideal elastomeric pad or spring, a system of the present invention employs a dramatically different approach the reactive force applied through the pad to the car is directly sensed by means of a force transducer which is located between the buffer and the cab support structure.Consequently, owing to the fact that the invention provides for direct weight measurement,transducers do not have to be fixed at each support point, because, at opposite points on a line that passes through the center of deflection, an aggregate force is provided which reflects the total force and the weight. Thus a single transducer may be used at the center of deflection of the cab, or pairs of transducers, located diametrically opposite to each other along a line passing through the center of deflection, may be used. The actual load is determined by referencing the reactive force sensed by tije transducer s to the total number of support points. Since the sum of the reactive forces is transmitted through the transducers and is proportional to the actual weight, that weight can be computed by summing the outputs of the transducers and scaling them to the maximum and minimum cab weight to compute the load.Thus, according to a preferred feature, the system comprises processing means for summing said signals when there is more than one said signal for assigning a cab weight parameter to said sum or signal for subtracting a first cab weight parameter reflecting the actual empty cab weight from said assigned parameter to produce a weight change parameter and for multiplying said weight change parameter by a second weight related parameter reflecting the relationship between the change in said sum or signal and actual cab weight to produce a secondparameter reflecting the passenger duty load. The empty weight of the cab produces a particular sum from the transducers and that sum is stored.From the maximum permissible car weight a coefficient is stored which represents the slope of the straight line connecting the minimum and maximum weight points.Computation of the passenger load is.made in accordance with this equation 1 LOAD KA sum MIEN. SUM where 2 KA max. load MAX. SUM MIN. SUM Since the load is computed by reference to the curve associated with the sum of the transducer outputs, the minimum sum and the maximum surn can be estimated, and those estimates may be stored and a correction for each can be provided that correction being significantly smaller than the estimate, thus avoiding poor resolution where car weights are much greater than the passenger loads that are measured. A feature of the present invention therefore is that it provides a system whose accuracy and repeatability is unaffected by the characteristics of the elastomeric buffers or springs that are used to support the cab. Another feature is that a system which uses only two transducers or even one, is considerably less expensive than prior art systems utilizing displacement detection devices at each of the support points. An embodiment of the invention will now be described by way of example and with reference to the accompanying drawings, in which Fig. 1 is an elevational view of a portion of a simplified elevator car structure in this structure one end of the cab is supported on a frame by a transducer and pad arrangement according to the present invention and the other end is supported by an elastomeric pad and a spacer. Fig. 2 is a diagram of a simplified eauivalent model of an elevator car structure the cab is resiliently mounted at si points at two of those points force sensing transducers are disposed between the cab and the structure and a pad is disposed between the transducer and the cab. Fig. 3 is a block diagram of a system embodying the present invention this system uses two force transducers which are located as shown by the transducers in Fig. 2. Fig. 4 is a graph which shows the relationship between reactive force and the combined output voltage for the two transducers that are shown in the exemplary system in Fig. 3. Fig. 5 is a flow chart that sets forth the routine for deriving load weight from two transducers in Fig. 4 by means oz a computer. In Fig. 1 the floor 10 of an elevator cab is attached to a frame 12 by means of a support assembly 14. This assembly includes 2 reactive force transducer 20, which is bolted by means of bolts 18 to the frame 12, and a resilient pad 22. A metal plate 24 is bolted to the cab floor lu, and a bolt 25 passes through the center of the transducer 20 and attaches to a plate 26. The cab is mechanically connected to the frame through the transducer by means of the bolt 25 and to the bolt through the pad. The transducer is of the beam type.These have a beam structure not shown extending from the fastening bolts 18 to the transducer center 21, which is essentially movable vertically with the car, whereas the outer portion 23 is fixed to the frame by the bolts18 and, hence, is not likewise movab le. Vertical reactive forces weight are applied through the bolt 25 and produce strains on these beams. The beams contain strain elements and a constant voltage is applied to these elements, and they produce a single transducer output voltage that changes prosortionally with the strain the vertical force on the transducer. An example of a suitable transducer of this type is modelB 600 018 made by Genesco Corporation. It has a gain of 0.2mV volts 1000 lb for a range from zero to one thousand pounds.Thus if 10 V.D.C. is applied, the output increases linearly from 0 to 2 mV for a 1000 lb load. Fig. 2 is a diagram of 2 simplified mechanical model of an elevator car the pads 22, for instance, are depicted by their function equivalents springs. The cab 10 is supported at six points on the frame 12. At two of these points 30, 32 support is provided by the assembly 14.At the other support points 36, 38, 39 and 40 an assembly 33 is used, and as shown in Fig. 1, it consists of the elastomer pad 22 and a spacer 27 which takes up the space of the transducer 20 that it replaces. The points 30, 32 are on a line 35 which passes through the center of deflection 34 of the floor 10. The points 36, 38 are on a line 37 which also passes through the center of deflection 34, and the points 39, 40 are on a line 41 which also passes through the center of deflection. The center of deflection CD is simply the point which moves only in the vertical direction, depending upon changes in weight W empty cab passengers applied to the floor, regardless of how the weight is distributed.If the weight is located on. the line 35 but not precisely at the center of the cab, i.e. at 34, it can be reflected back to the line 37. From that it creates a moment around each point 36, 38 and reactive force at each point similarly creates a moment around its opposite point. But when the floor is in equilibrium, the total reactive force at the points 36, 38 must equal a portion of the weight reflected on the line, but the magnitude of that portion does not change with the location of the weight, although that changes the tilt around the center of deflectiori. The sum of the moments around the points also equals zero in the equilibrium condition. Thus the location of the weight on the floor simply determines the ratio between the forces at the two points 36, 38 yet the sum remains the same for a given weight.This analysis assumes a simple beam extending between the points 36, 38 but it is equally applicable to a multisupported system, i.e. the model in Fig. 2. There b using the same procedure, reflecting the weight to the line of action between the support points, the force at any two points on opposite sides of the center of deflection on the same line passing therethrough is a portion of the overall weight of the car and does not var with the location of the weight. The effect of this is simply that if the pads all have substantially the same force coefficient, even though the floor tilts as the weight is moved around, the sum of the reactive forces at points 30, 32, for example, always provides the same portion of the overall eight. The center of deflection th erefore is simply the point at which there is no floor rotation from the moments and only resultant vertical displacement from the weight that effectively appears there. For another, simpler way, as weight is added to the floor, the sum of the reactive forces e.g. Fl, F2 at any two points substantially on a line passing through the center of deflection increases and no matter where the weight is applied, that sum is the same, even though the change it weight location causes in Fl and F2 may be different, depending upon the weight distribution. Thus Fl F2 weight N M number of transducers and N number of support points , assuming that the spring rates for the pads are the same.Thus, by summing the outputs rom the transducers TRl and TR2 the force can be determined simply by multiplying the force, which that sum represents, by three. Similarly, if four transducers one at each corner are summed together, their outputs represent an aggregate force which is two thirds of the total reactive force. Obviously, if 2 transducer and pad were to be located at the center of deflection, the reactive force at that point would be one seventh of the total weight again because there is no torque at the center of deflection. Therefore, by using force transducers to detect actual reactive forces it is possible to use one transducer at the center of deflection seven support points or two transducers TRl, TR2, e.g. at points 30, 32 on a line through the center of deflection, or more, according to the same principles. Fig. 3 is a block diagram of a system for determining load or passenger weight through the use of the two transducers TRl and TR2 in the model shown in Fig. 2. Each of these transducers has an associated output line 46 which is connected to a buffer amplifier 48 having an output line 42 which connects to an analog multiplexer A tiüÄ 52. Each transducer is powered from a constant DC voltage V which is supplied to an input 53 on each transducer. rom this voltage each.transducer produces an output voltage on its output line 46 and this output voltage is proportional to the reactive force which is applied through the transducer. Fig. 4 is a graph which shows the relationship between the combined outputs sum from the two transducers TRl and TR2 with respect to the total reactive force they supply to the car at their associated support points. Line A is based on the estimated outputs from these transducers when the car is empty and fully loaded Line B, however, represents the actual relationship and is derived from a computation using the equation defining the line A and modifying the slope and the minimum weight point based upon the difference between the estimated and actual car loads when the car is empty and full. This computational process is developed in greater detail later in this description. From the DC voltage V a circuit 45 provides a preadjustable DC reference voltage span adjust on its output line 51 to the multiplexer 52. A circuit 4 7 7 similarly provides a preadjustable reference voltage zero adjust on an output line 54 which goes to the multiplexer. Each of these circuits may be simply a potentiometer. The zero adjust A is the difference between an estimated minimum sum min sum 56 in Fig. 4 and the actual minimum sum 58 for the empty car likewise the span adjust SA is the difference between an estimated maximum sum max sum 60 and the actual maximum sum 62 when the car is fully loaded.The estimated minimum sum 56 is stored in aROM 71 which is part of a microcomputer 6t that is employed to carry out certain computationa routines to determine load weight from the transducers TRl andTR2 based upon the straight line equation defining the relationship between load weight and the transducer outputs. Also stored in the ROI is the slope K of the line A between the estimated points. In the system in Fig. 3 once the passenger load is determined it is supplied to a D A converter 73 over a line 57 from the computer. The D A converter produces an analog signal which may be supplied to a variet of possible car motion controls 68 these are generically depicted because they form no part owl the invention. Nevertheless, these controls may control elevator car motion, provide utilization monitoring or both. The flow chart which comprises Fig. 5 depicts a routine for selecting the analog transducer outputs, the analog span adjust SA and the zero adjust ZA and converting these analog signals into digital form and from that computing the load from a line equation defining the line B. Thins equation is 3 K X SA sum min sum ZA where X scales the span adjust SA to the line slope KA.Alternatively, the span adjust and zero adjust can be used tb define the beginning and end points of the line B and from that the slope, but there is an advantage in the former approach in that better resolution is provided because the change in the transducer outputs caused by passenger loads is much smaller than the actual output caused by the empty weight of the cab. The computer retrieves the analog information TR1 OUT, TR2 OUT, SA, ZA from the transducers and the span adjust and zero adjust circuits by the transmissidn of command signals to the A VUX unit 52 over a line 70 from the computer in order to select a particular multiplexer input which is then supplied over a line 72 to the.input of an A D converter 74. This converter, on a command over the line 70 from the computer, converts the analog in formation into digital fonn and supplies this digital information over a line 66 to the computer 64.This A D converter simply may be a counter whose output count is proportional to the analog signal that is supplied to its input from the multiplexer. The flow chart in Fig. 5 illustrates the sequential steps which are performed in a load computation routine LOAD by the computer, using the analog information from the transducers and the span and zero adjust circuits together with the stored slope KLWDROM and the stored minimum car weight sum bWDZROM . In this routine the I lultïplexer input containing TRl OUT is selected which causesTRl OUT to appear on the multiplexer output rine that goes to the A D converter. TRl OUT is then convertedL4 into a digital equivalent LWDl reflecting the transducer reactive force. LWDl is then stored L6 in the computer memory.TR2 OUT is then selected L8 and converted Ll0 into its digital equivalent LWD2 . LWDl and LWD2 are summed L12 and the sum LWDT is stored L14 in the computer memory. The zero adjust ZA is selected L16 and converted T18 to its digital force equivalent DZA which is then stored L20 in the computer memory. Similarly, the span adjust SA is selected L22 and then converted L24 to its digital equivalent DSA which is then stored L26 in the computer memory. The stored estimated minimum empty car weight sum LIZDZROM is recalled L2s and summed L30 with DZA to yield the corrected minimum load weight sum LWDZ . The stored estimated slope KLWDROtS is recalled L32 and summed L34 with a correction x DSA to yield the corrected slope KLWD.. As previously stated, X is a stored coefficient for properly scalingDSA to the slope. The corrected minimum load weight sum LWDZ is subtracted from the actual load weight sum LWDT and the remainder is multiplied by the corrected slope KLlVD to yield the load KLwDLBS . A similar procedure obviously may be utilized with more than two transducers, for instance four, and in that case the difference in the routine would principally be the inclusion of additional steps for retrieving the outputs from the transducers and providing for their conversion into a digital format and then summing them with the outputs from the transducers TRl and TR2. Obviously, the span adjust and zero adjust would have to be different because the overall sum of these transducers would be greater reflecting the greater aggregate reactive force that is being sensed. The previously described routine provides the most accurate way to compute the load from the analog outputs provided by the transducers because the ratio between the passenger loads and total car load are actually small in most applications this particular routine avoids resolution problems. Further, while the computer has been shown and discussed for performing these computations, they no doubt can also be done in a totally analog circuit or one consisting of discrete logic circuits. Still a computer based approach is preferred because it can be done as a routine in a computer that is used to control many other elevator motion functions. The foregoing is a description of a preferred 9mbodinient of the invention yet it may suggest to one skilled in the art numerous modifications, variations and alterations in and to the embodiment shown and described without departing from the true scope of the invention embodied therein and described in the following claims.