# Pyrazino benzoxazepine and benzthiazepine derivatives, processes for their production and pharmaceutical compositions containing them.

## Abstract
Compounds of formula I,

## Claims
WHAT WE CLAIM IS 1. A compound of formula I,EMI17.1 wherein R1 is hydrogen, alkyl of 1 to 4 carbon atoms, hydroxyalkyl with a maximum of 4 carbon atoms, which may be acylated by an alkanoyl group of 2 to 18 carbon atome, alkoxyalkyl with a maximum of .6 carbon atoms, cycloalkyl of 3 to 6 carbon atoms, cycloalkylalkyl of 4 to 7 carbon atoms or a group of formula II,EMI17.2 wherein R5 is hydrogen, halogen, alkyl or al koxy of 1 to 4 carbon atoms, and either i X is CH2 and n is 0, 1, 2 or 3 or ii X is CO and n is 1, 2 or 3 or iii X is 0 and n is 2 or 3 and R2 and R3 are independently hydrogen, halogen, trifluorpmethyl or alkyl, alkoxy, alkylthiO alkylsulfinyl or alkylsulfonyl, each of 1 to 4 carbon atoms and R4 is hydrogen, alkyl or alkoxy of 1 to 4 carbon atoms, Z is O or S , with the proviso that, when R3 is trifluoro methyl, alkoxy, alkylthio, alkylsulfinyl or alkylsulfonyl, R4 is other than alkoxyor an acid addition salt thereof. 2. A process for the production of a compound of formula I, as defined in claim 1, which comprises reacting a compound of formula III, EMI19.1 wherein R21 R3, R4 and Z are as defined in claim 1. and y is a leaving group, with a compound of formula IV,EMI19.2 wherein R1 is as defined in claim 1. 3. A compound of claim 1, wherein R1 is hydrogen, alkyl of 1 to 4 carbon atoms, hydroxyalkyl with a maximum of 4 carbon atoms or alkoxyalkyl with a maximum of 6 carbon atoms, R2 is hydrogen, halogen, alkyl or alkoxy of 1 to 4 carbon atoms, R3 and R4 are hydrogen and Z is O . 4. A compound of claim I, wherein R1 is hydrogen, alkyl of 1 to 4 carbon atoms, hydroxyalkyl with a maximum of 4 carbon atoms, alkoxyalkyl with a maximum of 6 carbon atoms or a group of formula II, wherein R5 is hydrogen, halogen, alkyl or alkoxy of 1 to 4 carbon atoms, and either i X is OH2 and n is O, 1, 2 or 3 or ii Xis CO and n is 1, 2 or 3 or iii Xis O and n is 2 or 3, R2 is hydrogen, halogen, alkyl or alkoxy of 1 to 4 carbon atoms, R3 is hydrogen, halogen, trifluoromethyl or alkyl, alkoxy or alkylthio, each of 1 to 4 carbon atoms, R4 is hydrogen, alkyl or alkoxy of 1 to 4 carbon atoms and Z is O . 5. A compound of claim 1, which is 11 4 methyl l piperazinyl pyrazino 2,3 b l,5 benzoxazepine. 6. A pharmaceutical composition comprising a compound of claim 1 in free base form or in pharmaceuti cally acceptable acid addition salt form in association with a pharmaceutical carrier or diluent.

## Description
PYRAZINOBENZOXAZEPINE DERIVATIVES, PROCESSES FOR THEIRPRODUCTION AND PHARMACEUTICAL COMPOSITIONS CONTAININGTHEM The present invention relates to pyrazinobenzoxazepines, processes for their production and pharmaceutica compositions containing them. The present invention provides compounds of formula I,EMI1.1 wherein R1 is hydrogen, alkyl of 1 to 4 carbon atoms, hydroxyalkyl with a maximum of 4 carbon atoms, which may be acylated by an alkanoyl group of 2 to 18 carbon atoms, alkoxyalkyl with a maximum of 6 carbon atoms, cycloalkyl of 3 to 6 carbon atoms, cycloalkylalkyl of 4 to 7 carbon atoms or a group of formula II,EMI2.1 wherein R5 is hydrogen, halogen, alkyl or al koxy of 1 to 4 carbon atoms, and either i X is CH2 and n is 0, 1, 2 or 3 or ii X is CO and n is 1, 2 or 3 or iii X is O and n is 2 or 3 and R2 and R3 are independently hydrogen, halogen, trifluoromethyl or aikyl, alkoxy, alkylthio, alkylsulfinyl or alkylsulfonyl, each of 1 to 4 carbon atoms and R4 is hydrogen, alkyl or alkoxy of 1 to 4 carbon atoms, Z is O or S , with the proviso that, when R3 is trifluoro methyl, alkoxy, alkylthio, alkylsulfinyl or alkylsulfonyl, R4 is other than alkoxy. Any alkyl, alkoxy or alkylthio radical of 1 to 4 carbon atoms is preferably of 1 to 3 carbon atoms, especially 1 and 2 carbon atoms. Hydroxyalkyl has preferably 2 or 3 carbon atoms. Preferably the hydroxy group is attached to a carbon atom other than the carbon atom adjacent to the nitrogen atom. The alkoxy moiety in alkoxyalkyl is preferably located in the terminal position of the alkylene chain which preferably has 2 or 3, especially 2 carbon atoms. The alkoxy radical in alkoxyalkyl is preferably methoxy. Cycloalkyl or the cycloalkyl moiety of cycloalkylalkyl is conveniently cyclopropyl or cyclopentyl. The alkyl moiety of cycloalkylalkyl is conveniently methyl. Halogen means fluorine, chlorine, bromine or iodine, preferably fluorine or chlorine, especially chlorine. R1 is preferably hydrogen, alkyl or a group of formula II, R5 is preferably hydrogen or fluorine. X is preferably CH2 or CO , n is preferably 1 or 3. R2 is preferably hydrogen, halogen or alkoxy. R3 is preferably hydrogen, halogen or alkyl. R4 is preferably hydrogen.When R2 and R3 are other than hydrogen, Rq is preferably in position 8. Z is preferably 0 . The present invention also provides a process for the production of a compound of formula I as defined above, which comprises reacting a compound of formula III, EMI4.1 wherein R2, R3, R and Zare as defined above and y is a leaving group, with a compound of formula IV,EMI4.2 wherein R1 is as defined above. The reaction may be effected in conventional manner for the production of similar compounds. Y is preferably chlorine. The process may be conveniently effected at a tem perature Ct fran 20 to 170 C in an inert organic solvent such as toluene, methylenchloride or dioxane. When R1 is hydrogen conveniently a compound of formula III is added to a solution of a compound af formula IV. The starting material of formula III may be prepared in known manner, e.g. as described herein, for example via the corresponding lactam, e.g. by reaction with phosphoroxychloride. Insofar as the production of starting materials is not particularl described these compounds are known or may be produced in analogous manner to known compounds. Free base forms of the compounds of formula I may be converted into acid addition salt forms in conventional manner and vice versa. Suitable acids are e.g.maleic acid, oxalic acid, methanesulphonic acid, hydrochloric acid and hydrobromic acid. In the following Examples the temperatures given are in degrees Centigrade and are uncorrected. In the table the following abbreviations are used monomÅaleate monooxalate EXAMPLE 1 11 4 thyl l piperazinyl pyrazino 2,3 b 1,5 benaxazepine 3.6 g 1 methylpiperazine are added to a stirred suspension of 4.2 g 11 chloro pyrazino 2,3 b l,5 benz oxazepine in 50 ml as. toluene. Stirring is maintained for four hours at room temperature. 100 ml water and 100 ml ethyl acetate are added and the mixture well shaken. The organic phase is filtered, dried over anhydrous magnesium sulphate and evaporated. The residue is dissolved in ethanol and 1 equivalent of maleic acid in ethanol is added, to yield the heading compound in monomaleate salt form, m.p. 190 191 . The starting material 11 chloro pyrazino 2,3 b7 tl,5 benzoxazepine may be obtained as follows a pyrazino 2,3 b benzoxazepin 11 10H one OH one A solution of 51 g 3 bromo pyrazine 2 carboxylic acid in 130 ml hexamethylphosphorotriamide is cooled to 10 and treated under stirring dropwise with 18 ml of thionyl chloride4 After 5 minutes there are added in one portion 27.3 g of owmnophenol and the reaction mixture i8 stirred for 2 honri at room temperature. The mixture is poured on tce and extracted with ethyl acetate.The organic layer was washed with 2N hydrochloric acid, 2N sodium carbonate and finally with water, dried over anhydrous magnesium sulphate, filtered and evaporated. The residue is treated with 2.2 1 of 0.1 N sodium hydroxide and stirred at 700 for 15 hours. The resulting solid is filtered, washed with water and dried in vacuo at 800 to yield the heading compound, m.p. 269 2720. b ll chloro pyrazino 2z3 b l 5 benzoxazepine 16 g of pyrazino 2,3 b 1,5 benzoxazepine 11 10H one, 140 ml of phosphoroxychloride and 5.6 ml of N,N dimethylaniline are refluxed for 15 hours. Residual phosphoroxychloride is removed by distillation.The residue is dissolved in methylene chloride and poured on ice. The methylene chloride layer is washed with 4N hydrochloric acid and water, dried over anhydrous magnesium sulphate and evaporated to give the heading compound, m.p. 123 1i60, In analogous manner to that described in Example 1, the following compounds of formula I are obtained, wherein Z is 0 EMI8.1 tb Example SEP R1 SEP R SEP Ra SEP R4 SEP m.p. tb SEP 2 tb SEP 2 SEP H SEP H SEP H SEP H SEP 223 224 tb SEP 3 SEP CH2CH2OH SEP H SEP H SEP H SEP 218 220 SEP dec. tb SEP 4 SEP H SEP 8 C1 SEP H SEP H SEP 197 199 SEP dec. tb SEP 5 SEP CH3 SEP 8 C1 SEP H SEP H SEP 118 119 tb SEP 6 SEP CH2CH2OH SEP 8 C1 SEP H SEP H SEP 230 232 SEP dec. tb SEP 7 SEP CH3 SEP H SEP CH3 SEP H SEP 171 173 SEP tb SEP 8 SEP CH3 SEP H SEP CH3 SEP CH3 SEP 175 177 SEP tb SEP 9 SEP CH3 SEP H SEP C1 SEP H SEP 134 135 SEP F tb SEP 10 SEP H SEP H SEP H SEP CH3 SEP 197 198 SEP tb SEP 11 SEP H SEP H SEP CH3 SEP H SEP 178 180 SEP tb SEP 12 SEP H SEP H SEP C1 SEP H SEP 184 186 SEP tb SEP 13 SEP 02H5 SEP H SEP H SEP H SEP 170 171 SEP tb SEP 14 SEP OH SEP OH3 2 SEP H SEP H SEP H SEP II SEP 145 148 SEP tb SEP 15 SEP CH2CH2OCH3 SEP H SEP H SEP H SEP 157 158 SEP tb SEP 16 SEP H SEP 8 CH3 SEP H SEP H SEP 196 197 SEP tb SEP 17 SEP CH3 SEP 8 OH3 SEP H SEP H SEP 171 172 SEP tb SEP 18 SEP H SEP 7 CH3 SEP H SEP H SEP 215 216 SEP tb SEP 19 SEP CH3 SEP 7 CH3 SEP H SEP H SEP 160 162 SEP tb SEP 20 SEP H SEP 8 OCH3 SEP H SEP H SEP 178 180 SEP tb SEP 21 SEP CH3 SEP 8 OCH3 SEP H SEP H SEP 159 161 SEP tb SEP 22 SEP H SEP 8 F SEP H SEP H SEP 181 182 SEP tb SEP 23 SEP CH3 SEP 8 F SEP H SEP H SEP 170 SEP tb SEP 24 SEP CH3 SEP H SEP H SEP CH3 SEP 178 179 tb SEP 25 SEP CH2CH2 SEP SEP H SEP H SEP H SEP 140 141 tb SEP 26 SEP CH2CH2 SEP e SEP 8 OCH3 SEP H SEP H SEP 215 216 tb SEP SEP dec. tb SEP 27 SEP CH,CH, SEP H SEP H SEP CH3 SEP 201 203 tb SEP 27a SEP CH2CH2 SEP t SEP H SEP C1 SEP CH3 SEP 204 208 SEP tb EMI9.1 tb Example SEP R1 SEP 2 SEP R3 SEP R4 SEP m.p. tb 28 SEP CH2CH2 SEP t SEP H SEP CH3 SEP H SEP 136 138 tb SEP OH2 2O SEP H SEP H SEP H SEP 160 162 tb SEP 2 SEP 2 SEP dex. tb SEP 30 SEP CH2 3CO SEP e SEP F SEP H SEP H SEP H SEP 130 131 tb SEP 31 SEP CH2CH2 SEP t SEP H SEP C1 SEP H SEP 135 137 SEP F tb SEP OH SEP 2 SEP e SEP H SEP H SEP H SEP 137 138 tb .33 SEP 2 SEP 2 SEP 9 SEP H SEP H SEP H SEP 119 121 tb SEP C1 tb SEP 34 SEP CH2 2CH2 SEP H SEP H SEP H SEP 133 135 tb SEP r SEP tb SEP 35 SEP H SEP H SEP CH3 SEP CH3 SEP 200 202 tb SEP 36 SEP OH2CH2 SEP H SEP CH3 SEP CH3 SEP 182 183 tb SEP 37 SEP H SEP 8 C1 SEP CH3 SEP H SEP 192 193 tb SEP 38 SEP CH3 SEP 8 C1 SEP CH3 SEP H SEP 189 192 tb SEP 39 SEP 2 SEP t SEP 8 Cl SEP CH3 SEP H SEP 212 213 tb SEP SEP dec0 tb SEP 40 SEP CH3 SEP 8 C1 SEP C1 SEP H SEP 207 209 tb SEP 41 SEP H SEP H SEP CH3 SEP H tb SEP 42 SEP CH2CH2 SEP e SEP 8 Cl SEP H SEP H tb EMI10.1 tb SEP Example SEP R1 SEP b SEP R2 SEP 3 SEP R4 SEP m.p. tb SEP 43 SEP CH2 SEP SEP H SEP H SEP H tb SEP 44 SEP CH2 SEP SEP H SEP C1 SEP H tb SEP 45 SEP CH2 SEP SEP 8 C1 SEP H SEP H tb SEP 46 SEP SEP H SEP H tb SEP 47 SEP H SEP H SEP H tb SEP 48 SEP CH3 SEP H SEP OCH3 SEP H tb SEP 2 SEP 2 SEP e SEP H SEP OCH3 SEP H tb SEP 50 SEP H SEP H SEP C1 SEP CH3 tb 51 SEP CH3 SEP H SEP C1 SEP CH3 SEP 121 123 tb SEP 52 SEP CH3 SEP H SEP SOH3 SEP H tb SEP 53 SEP CH3 SEP H SEP SOCH3 SEP H tb SEP 54 SEP H SEP CH3 SEP H tb In analogous manner to that described in Example 1, the following compounds of formula I are obtained, wherein Z is S Example R1 R2 R3 R4 m. p.55 H H H H 158 161 56 CH3 H H H 171 173 57 H 8 C1 H H 191 192 dec. 58 CH3 8 C1 H H 148 149 59 CH CH OH 8 C1 H H 235 237 dec. 60 CH2CH2OH H H H 253 256 naphthalene 1,5 disulpho nate aec. 61 CH3 7 C1 H H 169 170 62 H 7 C1 H H 209 211 63 CH3 8 F H H 64 H 8 F H H 65 CH3 8 F CH3 H 66 CH3 8 F Cl H 67 CH3 H CH3 H 68 CH3 H C1 H 69 CH3 H SCH3 H 70 CH3 H SOCH3 H 71 CH3 H SO2CH3 H 72 CH3 8 Cl CH3 H 73 H 8 C1 CH3 H 74 CH3 8 C1 C1 H The starting material ll chloro pyrazinot2,3 b 1,5 benzothiazepine for Example 55 may be prepared as follows a 3 2 amino henylthio pyrazine 2 carboxylic acid methyl eser A mixture of 18 g 3 bromopyrazine 2 carboxylic acid methyl ester, 13.4 g 2 amino thiophenolhydrochloride and 250 ml triethylamine is refluxed for 3 hours. Thereafter the solvent is evaporated and the residue treated with methylene chloride and water. The organic phase is dried over sodium sulphate and evaporated, whereby there is obtained the heading compound, which after recrystallisation from ethyl acetate has a m.p. of 155 1560. b pyrazino 2 3 bltlL5lbenzothia2eEin ll lOH oneFreshly prepared sodium methylate from 1.8 g of sodium in 200 ml abs. toluene and 16.8 g 3 2 aminophenylthio pyrazine 2 carboxylic acid methyl ester are stirred together at room temperature for 15 hours.The mixture is poured on ice and the resulting precipitate filtered, whereby there is obtained the heading coMpound, which after recrystallisation from ethyl acetate has a m,p. of 280 2820, c ll chloro pyrazinof2z3 b rlL51benzothiazesinnIn analogous manner to that described in Example lb there is obtained the heading compound. The compounds of formula T exhibit pharmacolo gical activity. In particular, they exhibit sleep inducing activity, as indicated in standard tests. For example in one test according to the principles of A.O. Sayers and G. Stille, Electroenceph. Clin. Neurophysiol. 27, 87 89 1969 , the sleep inducing activity in rats is observed after a single peroral administration of from about 0,5 to about 80 mg kg animal body weight. The compounds are therefore indicated for use as sleep inducing agents. For this use an indicated daily dose is from about 1 to about 100 mg conveniently given shortly before retiring to sleep. Additionally, the compounds of formula I exhibit neuroleptic activity, as indicated in standard tests. For example, in one standard test an inhibition of spontaneous motor activity is observed in mice on p.o. administration of from 1 to 50 mg kg anir,al body weight cf the compounds in accordance with the principles of Caviezel and Baillod Pharm. Acta Helv. 195E , 33, 465 484 The compounds are therefore indicated for use as neuroleptic agents. For this use an indicated daily dose is from about 50 to about 500 mg, conveniently given in divided doses 2 to 4 times a day in unit dosage form containing from about 12.5 to about 250 mg, or in sustained release form. Additionally, the compounds of formula I exhibit antidepressant activity, as indicated in standard tests, for example, by an inhibition of tetrabenazine induced catalepsy and ptosis in rats on intraperitoneal administration of from 5 to 15 mg kg animal body weight in accordance with the method described by Stille Arznei mittel Forsch. 1964, 14, 534 . The compounds are therefore indicated for use as antidepressant agents. For this use an indicated daily dose is from about 5 to about 150 mg, conveniently administered in divided doses 2 to 4 times a day in unit dosage form containing ftom about 1.25 to 75 mg, or in sustained release form. The compounds of formula I may be administered in pharmaceutically acceptable acid addition salt form. Such acid addition salt forms exhibit the sane order of activity as the frec base forms. The present inven tion also provides a pharmaceutical ccmposition com prising a compound of formula I, in free base form or in pharmaceutically acceptable acid addition salt form, in association with a pharmaceutical carrier or diluent. Such compositions may be in the form of, for example, a solution or a tablet. The sleep inducing activity and the neuro leptic activity is the preferred utility for compounds of formula I. The compounds of formula I wherein Z is o , especially those of Examples 1 and 25 are especially indicated as sleep inducing agents. The compounds of Examples 5, 7, 9, 31, 38, 58and 68 are especially indicated as neuroleptic agents. In one group of compounds R1 is hydrogen, alkyl of 1 to 4 carbon atoms, hydroxyalkyl with a maximum of 4 carbon atoms or alkoxyalkyl with a maximum of 6 carbon atoms, R2 is hydrogen, halogen, alkyl or alkoxy of 1 to 4 carbon atoms, R3 and R4 are hydrogen and Z is O . In another group of compounds R1 is hydrogen, alkyl of 1 to 4 carbon atoms, hydroxyalkyl with a maximum 0 4 carbon atoms, alkoxyalkyl with a maximum of 6 carbon atoms or a group of formula II, wherein R5 is hydrogen, halogen, alkyl or alkoxy of 1 to 4 carbon atoms, and either i X is CIS2 and n is O, 1, 2 or 3 or ii X is CO and n is 1, 2 or 3 or iii X is O and n is 2 or 3, R2 is hydrogen, halogen, alkyl or alkoxy of 1 to 4 carbon atoms, R3 is hydrogen, halogen, trifluoromethyl or alkyl, alkoxy or alkylthio, each of 1 to 4 carbon atoms, R4 is hydrogen, alkyl or alkoxy of 1 to 4 carbon atoms and Z is O .