# WASHING MACHINE BASKET POSITIONING DEVICE

## Claims
1. Einrichtung zum Positionieren der Trommel einer Toplader Waschmaschine, mit einem elektronischen Geschwindigkeitsregler SR zum Regeln der Umdrehungsgeschwindigkeit des die Trommel antreibenden Elektromotors M , einer von Hand betätigbaren Drucknopf Schaltvorrichtung P , die bei Betätigung die Trommel in die Lage versetzt, sich langsam zu drehen, indem dem elektronischen Geschwindigkeitsregler SR eine geeignete Bezugsspannung zugeführt wird, dadurch gekennzeichnet, daß außerdem vorgesehen sind

## Description
The present invention relates to a device for positioning the basket of a top loading washing machine of the type defined in the preamble of claim 1. A problem with top loading washing machines is that, after washing or if the machine is stopped during the wash cycle for loading additional items, the basket must be positioned so that the opening is at the top. This can be done manually but is an awkward operation in that the weight is usually unevenly distributed causing the basket to resist rotation. This problem has been partially overcome by means of devices of the above specified kind, such as that disclosed in FR A 2364286. This prior document discloses a device by which when the wash cycle is over, the user can make the basket rotate slowly by pressing a push switch which controls an electronic speed regulator of the motor which drives the basket. As soon as the user, looking through the port or opening of the machine, sees that the basket has reached the desired position, he releases the push switch and the basket stops. This known device can be dangerous for the user when the operation is carried out with the port open. Further it is quite difficult to obtain accurate positioning of the basket since to achieve this a quite exceptional speed of reaction of the user is required. The problem of bringing the basket a top loading washing machine to a halt in a predetermined position has been also discussed in DE U 6603447. The object of the present invention is to provide a device, by which the inconveniences of the prior devices can be overcome. This object is achieved according to the invention by means of a device of the above specified kind, characterised in Claim 1. The invention will now be described in detail with reference to the attached drawing, provided by way of a non limiting example and showing a partial block diagram of the electric circuit on a washing machine according to the present invention. The letter M in the Figure represents the motor for turning the basket, T a Triac for controlling the speed of the motor and SR a speed control unit which controls the speed of the motor via the said Triac. The said control unit comprises a DC SUPPLY circuit and a Motorola Semiconductors TDA 1085 integrated circuit IC. Further details concerning the integrated circuit IC and its application can be found in the Motorola Preliminary Information N 3 publication, August 1978, relative to the TDS 1085. The 220V a.c. main voltage is supplied to the two terminals marked 220V in the Figure. P represents a 2 way push button switch. When the button is pressed, one way connects one main terminal to the anodes of two diodes D₁, D₂ while the other connects one end of a resistor R₁ to pin 5 of IC. The cathode of diode D₁ is connected both to the supply circuit of unit SR and to Triac T. To the cathode of the other diode D₂ it is connected via a 5.6 Kohm resistor R₂ the parallel of a 10 µF condenser C₁ and a diode Z. The condenser C₁ supplies the electronic circuit of the device and is connected The collector of the phototransistor PT is also connected to a 1 µF condenser C₂ and the base of transistor TR₁. The collector of the same transistor is also connected to the base of the transistor TR₂ and the other end of resistor R. The emitter of the transistor TR₁ is grounded via a first light emitting diode LD₁. The emitter of transistor TR₂ is grounded via a second light emitting diode LD₂ of the H21A1 unit and a further 1 Kohm resistor R₅ connected in series. The circuit described operates as follows With the machine off at the end of the cycle or stopped by the operator , the operator presses button P. Voltage is supplied via diodes D₁, D₂ to IC, the Triac and the automatic electronic positioning circuit. As the 1 µF condenser C₂ is discharged, transistor TR₁ is disabled and its collector voltage high transistor TR₂ is saturated so that the second light emitting diode LD₂ is on the phototransistor PT is saturated with low collector voltage and the 1 µF condenser C₂ remains discharged. Via resistor R₁ current is supplied to pin 5 of IC. This current is such that the motor, together with the basket, starts turning slowly. The basket is fitted mechanically with a cam with a stick out section which, when the opening of the basket is at the top, intercepts the ray of light between the second light emitting diode LD₂ and the phototransistor PT. At this stage, the phototransistor PT is disabled and the 1 µF condenser C₂ is charged to about 1.2V. Transistor TR₁ is then saturated and its collector voltage falls. The first light emitting diode, LD₁, comes on and the motor stops whereas transistor TR₂ is disabled and the second light emitting diode LD₂ goes off. The circuit remains in this condition until the operator, seeing the light of diode LD₁, releases button P. This cuts off supply to the circuit so that the 100 µF condenser C₁ discharges into transistor TR₁ until the 1 µF condenser C₂ is also discharged. The circuit is now in the initial operating condition. If, however, button P is pressed again with the basket opening at the top , diode LD₁ comes on immediately and the basket stays still. This is because the stick out on the cam continues to intercept the ray of light thus disabling the phototransistor. The advantages of the present invention will be clear from the description given. In particular, the operator does not need to see the basket or calculate the exact time to release the push button when the basket opening reaches the top.