# Dentifrice and method for controlling calculus.

## Abstract
A dentifrice suitable for removing calculus and pre venting the build up of calculus on tooth enamel which contains strontium edatate and a ricinoleate, which have been found to provide a synergistic effect in both removal of calculus and prevention of its build up.

## Claims
THE CLAIMS 1. A water containing dentifrice consisting essentially of strontium edatate in an amount sufficient to provide from about 2.5 wt to about 25 wt. of strontium ion and from about 0.1 wt. to about 10 wt. of a ricinoleate compound, said dentifrice being free from strontium edatate sequestering Ca, Mg, Al, Sn metal. 2. A dentifrice according to claim 1 in which the ricinoleate is sodium ricinoleate. 3. A method for controlling calculus which comprises applying to the teeth a water containing denti frice consisting essentially of strontium edatate in an amount sufficient to provide from about 2.5 wt. to about 25 wt. of strontium ion and from about 0.1 wt. to about 10 wt. of a ricino leate, said dentifrice being free from strontium edatate sequestering Ca, Mg, Al, Sn metal. bMENDEI ICLAIMS 1. A ster ontaining dentifrice comprising strontium edatate and a ricinoleate, said dentifrice being free fro strontium edatate sequestering Ca, Mg, Al or Sn metal 2. A dentifrice according to claim 1 wherein the strontium edatate is present in the amount of about 2.5 wt. to about 25 wt. . 3. A dentifrice according to claim 1 or 2 wherein the edatate is the di sodium strontium salt of ethylene diamine tetraacetic acid. 4. A dentifrice according to any of the previous claims wherein the ricinoleate is present in the amount of 0.1 wt.S to about 10 wit.. 5. A dentifrice according to any of the previous claims wherein the ricinoleate is sodium ricinoleate.

## Description
DENTIFRICE AND METHOD FOR CONTROLLNG ZALCULUS This invention relates to dentaL hygiene and, in particular, provides a dentifrice having valuable properties in the removal and prevention of calculus.BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION It is known that water containing dentifrices which include strontium and sequestering agents such as EDTA are effective in the treatment of hyper sensitive dentin, gingivitis and periodontitis, apparently through the mechanism of substituting strontium for calcium in the calcium hydroxy apatite of the tooth Schole et al U. S. Patents 3,699,221 and 3,988,434 . It is also know that ricinoleic acid and various esters and salts which are surface active agents exhibit a higher contact angle with tooth enamel than other surface active agents.SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION In accordance with the present invention a watercontaining dentifrice including both strontium edatate and a ricinoleate provide a synergistic action in the removal of calculus from teeth and also in the prevention of its build up. It is understood by strontium edatate reference is made to the strontium chelate of EDTA and preferably the disodium strontium salt of ethylene diamine tetraacetic acid. h hen strontium edatate is present in an aqueous composition, the strontium is available in ionic form. Generally, the amount of strontium present in the dentifrice can be up to about 25 wt.g of strontium ion in the toothpaste but much smaller amounts, as low as 2.5 wt. , are effective. The strontium edatate can be formed in advance or can be prepared in the dentifrice as a mixture of a water soluble salt ofEDTA together with a pharmacalogically innocuous water soluble strontium salt, preferably in equivalents such that the pH will remain neutral. The ricinoleate can be any of the alkali metal salts of ricinoleic acid d 12 hydroxy cis 9 octadecenoic acid , but preferably is the sodium salt. The amount of the ricinoleate is not particularly critical and can be as high as 10 wt. .Amounts as low as Ol wt.t are, however, also effective. The preferred proportions in the water containing dentifrice are 10 by weight of strontium, calculated ds disodium strontium ethylene diamine tetra acetate and 0.5 by weight of ricinoleate, calculated as the sodium salt. The dentifrice product used should not include any calcium or other metal, salt or compounds from which any such metal would be sequestered by, and form the corresponding calcium or other metal chelate with the EDTA salt or chelate residue of the strontium chelate in the product. In other words, the dentrifice products of the invention should not include any of the water insoluble calcium, magnesium or aluminum compounds ordinarily incorporated as adjuvant bulk excipients in dentrifices, for example, as the abrasive ingredient, such as calcium carbonate, calcium pyrophosphate, magnesium oxide, aluminum oxide or hydroxide, and the like. So also, tin compounds, e.g., stannous fluoride and stannous chlorofluoride, likewise should be excluded. In place of the foregoing water insolubie bulk excipients for abrasive and other purposes, water insoluble barium and strontium salts, for example, barium sulphate, barium carbonate, strontium carbonate and strontium phosphate can be used. The ricinoleate, being a surface active wetting agent which is compatiblewithstrontium, generally will obviate the need of other wetting agents. The following are examples of several dentrifices in accordance with the invention. EXAMPLE 1 TOOTHPASTE Di sodium Salt of Ethylenediamine Tetraacetic Acid 20 gramsStrontium Chloride 6H20 20 gramsStrontium Carbonate 25 gramsSodium Ricinoleate O.SgramAlgin 1 gramEssential Oils for flavoring 1 gramPropylene Glycol 25 gramsAlcohol 0.9gram Water quantity sufficient to make 100 grams EXSa1PLE 2 TOOTHPSTE Strontium Edatate 30 gramsBarium Sulfate 30 gramsSodium Ricinoleate 1.0 gramAlgin 1 gramEssential Oils for flavoring 1 gramPropylene Glycol 20 gramsAlcohol 0.9 gramWater quantity sufficient to make 100 grams EXAMPLE 3 TOOTHPASTE Strontium Edatate 8.0 gramsStrontium Carbonate 25.0 gramsMethyl Salicylate 1. 25grams Water 33 ccNatrosol 1.7 gramsSodium Ricinoleate .1 gramCpc .3 gramSodium Saccharin 1.2 gramsPropylene glycol 25 ccWater sufficient to make 100 grams EXAMPLE 4 6 TOOTHPASTE Preparation 4 5 6Strontium Edatate 30 20 10 gramsStrontium Carbonate 25.0 25.0 25.0 gramsCetyl Pyridinium chloride 0.5 0.5 0.5 gramOil of cassia 0.75 0.75 0.75 gramOil of wintergreen 1.0 1.0 1.0 gramPropylene glycol 25.0 25.0 25.0 gramsNatrosol 1.7 1.7 1.7 gramsSaccharin 1.2 1.2 1.2 gramsSodium Ricinoleate 1.5 .5 .1 gramsWater QSAD to 100 grams Strontium edatate is prepared by mixing equimolar amounts of strontium chloride hexahydrate and sodium ethylene diamine tetraacetic acid in hot distilled water, typically at 700C, for a period of 20 minutes.The weight of strontium edatate is calculated as sodium strontium ethylene diamine tetraacetate and does not include the chloride present. As the ligand is formed, the two hydrogen ions are released for each molecule of Na2 EDTA which results in a decrease of solution pH from about neutral to about 4, indicating the formation of the ligand. Strontium carbonate or other abrasive then is slowly added to the mixture and heating and mixing are continued as the strontium carbonate or other abrasive is mixed.When strontium carbonate is used, a reaction takes place with a visible evolution of carbon dioxide as the vapor. This reaction continues for about three to four hours at 700C. The mixture is allowed to cool and additional ingredients such as propylene glycol and the like are added as well as make up water for that lost during the mixing of the strontium carbonate, Na2 EDTA and strontium chloride. In Example 1, an excess of strontium chloride was utilized and hence this is separately stated. In Example 2, barium sulfate was substituted for strontium carbonate. In a preferred alternate method of manufacture, Strontium edatate can be made by adding strontium carbonate to an aqueous solution of Di sodium EDTA at a temperature 700C 800C. The Strontium Carbonate is added slowly. At the completion of the reaction the pH will be between 7 and 8 which is adjusted by adding HC1. The bulk excipient or abrasive, such as Insoluble Metaphosphate IMP or Strontium Carbonate is added. The mixture is completed with the addition of Thickening Agent Natrosol , Humectant Sorbitol andGlycerine , Surfactant Sodium Ricinoleate and flavoring. EXAMPLE 7 Liquid DentrificeSodium Ricinoleate 0.5 gramGlycerine 20 gramsOil of cloves 0.3 gramOil of spearmint 0.3 gramOil of cassia 0.3 gramSaccharin 0.5 gramStrontium edatate 10 gramsTincture cudbear 0.6 gramWater quantity sufficient to make 100 cc The alcohol and glycerine are added to one another and stirred together, and, the ricinoleate then is dissolved in the alcohol and glycerine solution. The saccharin then is stirred in and also the tincture cudbear for coloring. Then the strontium edatate crystalline is stirred in and followed by the flavoring ingredients, namely, the oils of cloves, spearmint, and cassia and finally the water is added, and the whole is stirred to uniformity. The toothpastes of Examples 1 6 are utilized following a regular daily routine preferably twice a day. The liquid dentifrice of Example 7 is preferably used as a mouthwash and can be diluted in water, as with any ordinary mouthwash, and preferably is used at least twice a day.