# Novel sulfonamides, compositions containing them, and methods for controlling the growth of undesired vegetation using them.

## Abstract
Compounds of general formula

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. Compounds of general formulaEMI52.1 whereinA isEMI52.2 in which R1 isEMI52.3 ,F,Cl,Br,CH3,OCH3,NO2,CF3,SO2NR7R8, S O nR 8,EMI52.4 OSO2R10orEMI52.5 in which O is O,S orEMI52.6 in which R13 is H, C1 C2 alkyl or OCH3, R6 is C1 C4 alkyl, C3 C4 alkenyl or CH3OCH2CR2, or, when Q is 0, then R6 may also be ClCH2CH2, or R6 and R13 taken together form CH2CH2CH2CH2 or CH2CH2OCH2CH2 ,R7 and R8, which may be the same or different, are C1 C4 alkyl provided that the total number of carbon atoms in R7 and R8 is less than or equal to five, n is O, 1 or 2, R 8 is C1 C3 alkyl, R9 is H or C1 C4 alkyl, and R10 is C1 C4 alkyl or CF3, R2 is H, C1, CH3, CF3, NO2 or OCH3, and R3 is H, F, C1, Br, CH3, OCH3, NO2, C02R11 or S O nR12 in which R11 is C1 C4 alkyl, R12 is C1 C3 alkyl, and n is as defined above W is O or S R4 is H or CH3 andR5 isEMI53.1 in which R14 is H or CH3,Z is CH or N,Y is F, C1, Br, C1 C2 alkyl, OCH3, OCH2CH3 or CH3OCH2, andEMI53.2 in which R1, isEMI54.1 ,F,Cl,Br,OCH3,NO2,OF3,SO2NR7R8, S O nR8,EMI54.2 OSO2R10 orEMI54.3 in which O,R6,R7,R8,R9,R10 and n are as defined above, R2, is H, C1, CH3, CF3, NO2 or OCH3, R3, is H, F, C1, Br, CH3, OCH3, NO2, C02B11 or S O nR12 in which R11, R12 and n are as defined above, R15 is H, C1 C4 alkyl, C3 C4 alkenyl or OCR3, 15 is H, C1 C6 alkyl or cycloalkyl, phenyl, or phenyl optionally substituted by CF3, F, NO2, CN, 1 2 C1, 1 2 Br, 1 2 CH3 or 1 2 OCH3, and R17 is C1 C6 alkyl or cycloalkyl, phenyl, or phenyl optionally substituted by CF3,F,N02, CN, 1 2 C1, 1 2 Br, 1 2 CH3 or 1 2 OCH3 with the provisos that 1 when X is H or CH3, then Y is other than CH3, OCR3 or OCH2CH3 2 when Y is F, Cl or Br, then B5 isEMI54.4 3 when R15 is OCH3, then R16 is CH3, and 4 when R13 is OCH3, then R6 is CH3 and the agriculturally suitable salts thereof. 2. Compounds according to claim 1 in which W is O and R4 is H. 3. Compounds according to claim 2 in which R1 and orR1, areEMI55.1 N02 g C1, S02NR7R8,EMI55.2 , S O nR8, orOSO2R10. 4. Compounds according to claim 3 in which B5 isEMI55.3 5. Compounds according to claim 4 in which R is the same as R1, R2 is the same as R2, R3, is the same as R3, and R3 is in the 2 position of the pyridine ring. 6. Compounds according to claim 5 in which R15 isC1 C2 alkyl, CH2 CH CH2, OCH3 or H and R16 is H,C1 C3 alkyl, phenyl or phenyl optionally substituted by CF3,NO2, 1 2 Cl, CH3 or OCH3. 7. Compounds according to claim 6 in which R17 isC1 C3 alkyl, phenyl or phenyl optionally substituted by Cl, Br, CH3 or OCH3. 8. Compounds according to claim 7 in which R2 is H. 9. Compounds according to claim 8 in which R6 isC1 C3 alkyl or CH2CH CH2 R13 is CH3 R1 is NO2,SO2N R7,R8 2,EMI55.4 SO2B or OSO2CH3 and R3 is C1 or SO2CH3 provided that the total number of carbon atoms in R7,R8 is not greater than four. 10. Compounds according to claim 9 in which Z is CH. 11. Compounds according to claim 10 in which X is H,EMI56.1 orCF3SO2 12. Compounds according to claim 11 in which X isEMI56.2 wherein R15 is H, C1 C3 alkyl or OCH3, and R16 is H or C1 C3 alkyl. 13. Compounds according to claim 11 in which X isEMI56.3 wherein R16 is C1 C3 alkyl. 14. Compounds according to claim 11 in which X isEMI57.1 wherein R17 is C1 C3 alkyl. 15. A compound according to claim 1 which is methyl 2 4 amino 6 chloropyrimidin 2 yl aminocarbonyl aminosulfonyl benzoate. 16. A compound according to claim 1 which is dimethyl 2,2 6 chloropyrimidin 4,2 diyl bis aminocarbonyl amino sulfonyl bis benzoate . 17. A compound according to claim 1 which is N t4 2 chlorophenyl sulfonylamino carbonylamino 6 methyl 1,3,5 triazin 2 yl acetamide. 18. A compound according to claim 1 which is methyl 2 4 acetylamino 6 methyl 1,3,5 triazin 2 yl aminocarbonyl aminosulfonyl benzoate. 19. A composition suitable for controlling the growth of undesired vegetation which comprises an effective amount of a compound according to any one of claims 1 to 18 together with at least one surfactant, and or solid or liquid diluent. 20. A method for controlling the growth of undesired vegetation in a locus which comprises applying to the locus an effective amount of a compound according to any one of claims 1 to 19. AUSTRIAN CLAIMS 1. A process for the preparation of compounds of general formulaEMI58.1 whereinA isEMI58.2 in which R1 isEMI58.3 ,F,Cl,Br,CH3,OCH3,NO2,CF3,SO2NR7R8, S O nR 8,EMI58.4 OSO2R10orEMI58.5 in which Q is O,S orEMI58.6 in which R13 is H, C1 C2 alkyl or OCH3,R6 is C1 C4 alkyl, C3 C4 alkenyl or CH3OCH2CH2, or, when Q is 0, then R6 may also be ClCH2CH2, or R6 and R13 taken together form CH2CH2CH2CH2 or CH2CH2OCH2CH2 ,R7 and R8, which may be the same or different, are C1 C4 alkyl provided that the total number of carbon atoms in R7 and B8 is less than or equal to five, n is O, 1 or 2, R is C1 C3 alkyl, 9 is H or C1 C4 alkyl, and R10 is C1 C4 alkyl or CF3, R2 is H, Cl, CH3, CF3, NO2 or OCH3, and R3 is H, F, C1, Br, CH3, OCH3, NO2, CO2R11 or S O nR12 in which R11 is C1 C4 alkyl, R12 is C1 C3 alkyl, and n is as defined above W is O or S R4 is H or CH3 and R5 isEMI59.1 orEMI59.2 in which R14 is H or CH3,Z is CH or N,Y is F, Cl, Br, C1 C2 alkyl, OCH3, OCH2CH3 or CH3OCH2, andX is H, EMI59.3 EMI59.4 EMI60.1 in which Q,R6,R7,R8,R81,R9,R10 and n are as defined above, R2, is H, Cl, CH3, CF3, NO2 or OCH3, R is H, F, C1, Br, CH3, OCH3, NO2, C02R11 or S O nR12 in which R11, R12 and n are as defined above, R15 is H, C1 C4 alkyl, C3 C4 alkenyl or OCH3, R16 is H, C1 C6 alkyl or cycloalkyl, phenyl, or phenyl optionally substituted by CF3, F, NO2, CN, 1 2 C1, 1 2 Br, 1 2 CH3 or 1 2 OCH3, and R17 is C1 C6 alkyl or cycloalkyl, phenyl, or phenyl optionally substituted by CF3,F,NO2, CN, 1 2 Cl, 1 2 Br, 1 2 CH3 or 1 2 OCH3 with the provisos that 1 when X is H or CR3, then Y is other than CH3, OCR3 or OCH2CH3 2 when Y is F, Cl or Br, then R5 isEMI60.2 3 when R15 is OCH3, then R16 is CH3, and 4 when R13 is OCH3, then R6 is CH3 and the agriculturally suitable salts thereof which comprises reacting a compound of formula ASO2NCW wherein A and W are as defined above with a compound of formulaEMI61.1 wherein R4 and R5 are as defined above . 2. A process according to claim 1 wherein the reaction is effected in the presence of an inert aprotic organic solvent selected from acetonitrile, tetrahydrofuran and methylene chloride. 3. A process according to either of claims 1 and 2 wherein the reaction is effected at a temperature of from 25 to 81 C. 4. A process for the preparation of compounds of general formula I as defined in claim 1 in which W is O, R4 is H, and B5 isEMI61.2 in which R14 is H Z is CH Y is C1 and X isEMI62.1 EMI62.2 orEMI62.3 in which R 1, R 2, R 3, R15, R16 and R17 are as defined in claim 1 , which comprises reacting, in a first stage, a compound of formulaEMI62.4 with a compound of formula PH in which P isEMI62.5 EMI63.1 orEMI63.2 in which R1, R2, R3, R15, R16 and R17 are as defined in claim 1 , and, in a second stage, reacting the product of said first stage with a compound of formula ASO2NH2 in which A is as defined in claim 1 . 5. A process according to claim 4 in which the product of the first stage is reacted with the compound of formula ASO2NH2 without being isolated from the reaction medium in which it is formed. 6. A process according to either of claims 4 and 5 wherein the reactions of the first and second stages are effected in the presence of an inert aprotic solvent selected from acetonitrile, tetrahydrofuran and methylene chloride. 7. A process for the preparation of compounds of general formula I as defined in claim 1 in which W is O,R4 is H and B5 isEMI63.3 in which R14 is H, Z and Y are as defined in claim 1, and X isEMI64.1 which comprises reacting a compound of formuEMI64.2 in which A, Z and Y are as defined in claim 1 with acetic anhydride. 8. A process for the preparation of compounds of general formula I as defined in claim 1 in which W is O, R4 is H and B5 isEMI64.3 in which R14 is H, Z and Y are as defined in claim 1, and X isEMI64.4 in which R16 is as defined in claim 1 , which comprises reacting a compound of formulaXIV as defined in claim 7 with a compound of formula R16 NCO in which R16 is as defined in claim 1 . 9. A process for the preparation of compounds of general formula I as defined in claim 1 in which N is O, R4 is H and B5 isEMI65.1 in which R14 is H, Z and Y are as defined in claim 1, and X isEMI65.2 CR3SO2 or CF3SO2 in which R15, R16 and R17 are as defined in claim 1 , which comprises reacting a compound of formula XIV as defined in claim 7 with a compound of formula X C1 in which X is as defined above . 10. A composition suitable for controlling the growth of undesired vegetation in a locus which comprises a compound of formula I as defined in claim 1 together with at least one surfactant, and or solid or liquid diluent. 11. A method for controlling the growth of undesired vegetation in a locus which comprises applying to said locus an effective amount of a compound of formula I as defined in claim 1.

## Description
Novel sulfonamides, compositions containing them, and methods for controlling the growth of undesired vegetation using them This invention relates to novel sulfonamides exhibiting herbicidal activity. The presence of undesired vegetation causes substantial damage to useful crops, especially agricultural products that satisfy man s basic food and fiber needs, such as cotton, rice, corn, wheat, soybeans and the like. The current population explosion and concomitant world food and fiber shortage demand improvements in the efficiency of producing these crops.Preventing or minimising the loss of a portion of such valuable crops by killing or inhibiting the growth of undesired vegetation is one way of improving this efficiency. A wide variety of materials useful for killing or inhibiting controlling the growth of undesired vegetation is available such materials are commonly referred to as herbicides. Netherlands Patent 121,788 claims herbicides such as EMI1.1 where in and R2 C1 Cg alkyl and R3 and R H, Cl or C1 C4 alkyl. In adition, U.S. Patent 4, 127, 405 teaches herbioidal compounds such as that o tne formula EMI2.1 The need exists, however, for still more effective herbicides that destroy or control weeds without causing significant damage to useful crops. We have now found novel compounds which may be useful as general or selective pre emergence and postemergence herbicides and or plant growth regulants. According to one aspect of the present invention there are provided compounds of general formulaEMI2.2 whereinA isEMI2.3 in which R1 isEMI3.1 F, C1, Br, CH31 OCH3,NO2,OF3, SO2NR7R8, S O nR 3,EMI3.2 OSO2R10 orEMI3.3 in which Q is O,S orEMI3.4 in which R13 is H, C1 C2 alkyl or OCH3, R6 is C1 C4 alkyl, C3 C4 alkenyl or CH3OCH2CH2 or, when Q is 3, then R6 may also he ClCH2CH2, or R6 and R13 taken together form CH2CH2CH2CH2 or CH2CH2OCH2CH2 R7 and R8, which may be the same or different, are C1 C4 alkyl provided that the total number of carbon atoms in R7 and R8 is less than or equal to five, n is O, 1 or 2, R8 is C1 C3 alkyl, R9 is H or C1 C4 alkyl, and R10 is C1 C4 alkyl or OF3,R2 is H, C1, CH3, CF3, NO2 or OCH3, andR3 is H, F, C1, Br, CH3, OCH3, NO2, CO2R11 ofS O nR12 in which R11 is C1 C4 alkyl, R12 is C1 C3 alkyl, and n is as defined above W is O or S R4 is H or CH3 andR5 isEMI4.1 orEMI4.2 in which R14 is H or CH3,Z is CH or N,Y is F, C1, Br, C1 C2 alkyl, OCH3, OCH2CH3 or CH3OCH2, andEMI4.3 in which Q, R6, R7, R8, R 8, R9, R10 and n are as defined above, R2 is H, C1, CH3, CF3, NO2 or OCH3,R 3 is H, F, Cl, Br, CH3, OCH3, NO2, CO2R11 or S O nR12 in which R11, R12 and n are as defined above, R15 is H, C1 C4 alkyl, C3 C4 alkenyl or OCH3, R16 is H, C1 C6 alkyl or cycloalkyl, phenyl, or phenyl optionally substituted by CF3, F, NO2, CN, 1 2 C1, 1 2 Br, 1 2 CH3 or 1 2 OCH3, and R17 is C1 C6 alkyl or cycloalkyl, phenyl, or phenyl optionally substituted by CF3, F, NO2, CN, 1 2 C1, 1 2 Br, 1 2 CH3 or 1 2 OCH3 with the provisos that 1 when X is H or CH3, then Y is other than CH3, OCH3 or OCH2CH3 2 when Y is F, C1 or Br, then R5 isEMI5.1 3 when R15 is OCH3, then R16 is CH3, and 4 when R13 is OCH3, then R6 is CH3 and the agriculturally suitable salts thereof. Preferred Compounds Preferred for reasons of higher biological activity and or lower cost and or greater ease of synthesis are 1 Compounds of the general formula I in which W is oxygen and R4 is hydrogen 2 Compounds of Preferred 1 in which R1 and R1, areEMI6.1 S O R8 and OS02R10 3 Compounds of Preferred 2 in which R5 isEMI6.2 4 Compounds of Preferred 3 in which R1 R, R2, R2 and R3 R3 and R3 is in 2 position of the pyridine ring 5 Compounds of Preferred 4 in which R15 is C1 C2 alkyl, CH2 CH CH2, OCH3 or H and R16 is H, C1 C3 alkyl, phenyl or phenyl optionally substituted with CF3, NO2, 1 Cl, CH3 or OCH3 6 Compounds of Preferred 5 in which R17 is C1 C3 alkyl, phenyl or phenyl optionally substituted with C1, Br, CH3 or OCH3 7 Compounds of Preferred 6 in which R2 is H 8 Compounds of Preferred 7 in which R6 is C1 C3 alkyl or CH2CH CH2 and R13 is CH3 R1 is NO2, SO2N R7,R8 2, SO2N CH3 , SO2R8 , OSO2CH3 and R3 is C1, or SO2CH3 OCH3 provided that the total number of carbons for R7,R8 is 4 9 Compounds of Preferred 8 in which Z is CH 10 Compounds of Preferred 9 in which X isEMI7.1 11 Compounds of Preferred 9 in which X isEMI7.2 12 Compounds of Preferred 9 in which X is H .13 Compounds of Preferred 9 in which X isEMI7.3 14 Compounds of Preferred 9 in which X isEMI8.1 15 Compounds of Preferred 9 in which X isEMI8.2 16 Compounds of Preferred 9 in which X is CH3SO2 17 Compounds of Preferred 9 in which X is CF3SO2.18 Compounds of Preferred 13 in which R15 is H, C1 C3 alkyl or OCH3 and R16 is H or C1 C3 alkyul.19 Compounds of Preferred 14 in which R16 is C1 C3 alkyl.20 Compounds of Preferred 15 in which R17 is C1 C3 alkyl. Esceciallv Preferred for highest activity and or lowest cost and or greatest ease of synthesis are methyl 2 4 amino 6 chloropyrimidin 2 hl aminocarbonyl aminosulfonyl benzoate dimethyl 2,2 6 chloropyrimidin 4,2 diyl bis aminocarbonyl aminosulfonyl bis benzoate N 4 2 chlorophenyl sulfonylamino carbonylamino 6 methyl 1,3,5 triazin 2 yl acetamide methyl 2 4 acetylamino 6 methyl 1,3,5 triazin 2 yl aminocarbonyl amino sulfonyl benzoate. Synthesis Synthetic methods for the preparation of compounds of formula I i.e. of formulae II, III, IV and V are shown in the following Equations 1A, B, C and D. Compounds of Formulae II V are conveniently prepared by reacting either one or two equivalents of an appropriately substituted benzenesulfonylisocyanate or pyridine sulfonyl isocyanate with an appropriately substituted diaminopyrimidine or triazine.Equation 1EMI9.1 EMI10.1 The reactions of Squationsl are best carried out in inert aprotic organic solvents such as acetic nitrile, tetrahydrofuran of methylene chloride. The reaction temperature can range from 250C to 81 C.The reaction tie can range from 3 96 hours depending upon the reactivity of the aminoheterocycle. In some cases, the desired product crystallizes from the reaction medium and may be filtered. Other products which are soluble in the reaction medium are isolated by evaporation of the solvent, trituration 0 te residue with solvents such as ethyl ether, 1 chlorobutane or hexanes and filtration. Other compounds in the scope of this invention are prepared as shown in Equation 2.Equation 2 EMI10.2 The intermediate 4 chloro 2,6 diisocyanatopyrimidine, XIII is prepared as described in AngewChem. Int. Ed. Engl. 10, 402 1971 . Compounds ofFormula VI may be prepared by sequential addition of one equivalent of a nucleophile defined as PH, followed by one equivalent of the appropriately substituted benzenesulfonamide, or pyridine sulfonamide to XIII. The reaction of Equation 2 is best carried out in inert aprotic organic solvents such as acetonitrile, tetrahydrofuran or methylene chloride. Another route to compounds of this invention is shown in Equation 3A.Equation 3EMI11.1 The synthetic method for the preparation ofFormula VII is as described in Equation 3A. A mixture of the appropriately substituted XIV can be heated in acetic anhydride to give compounds of Formula VII. Similarly, compounds of Formulae VIII, IX, X, XI and XII can be prepared according to Equations 3B, 3C, 3D, 3E and 3F.Equations 3B, C, D, E and FEMI11.2 EMI12.1 EMI13.1 Starting materials and intermediates for compounds not otherwise described herein are disclosed in U.S. patent 4,127,408 and The Chemistry of Heterocyclic Compounds, The Pyrimidines , Tnterscience Publishers, D. J. Brown, S. F. Mason 1962 . The preparation of compounds of this invention are further illustrated by the following examples. Example 1 2 4 amino 6 chloropyrimidin 2 yl aminocarbonyl aminosulfonyl benzoic acid, methyl ester To a warmed mixture containing 1.4 g 0.01 mole 2,4 diamino 6 chloropyrimidine in 50 ml acetonit ile is added 2.4 g 0.01 mole 2 carbomethoxybenzenesulfonylisocyanate. The reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for four days. The reaction mixture was filtered And e precipitate washed with ether.The filtered solid wa air dried and purified in the following manner. an aqueous suspension of the reaction mixture was added n propylalair.e and the aaueous mixture filtered. The resultant clear solu tion was carefully acidified with concentrated HC1 to pH 1 2. The mixture was filtered, washed it ether and air dried to yield a white solid, m.p. 170 1720C.The infrard spectrum showed characteristic absorption bands at 1740, 1700 cm . The NNR ana rass spectral data are consistent for the desired product. Example 2 2,2 6 cloropyrilln 2, diylbis aminoczrb aminosulfonyl bis benzoic acid, dimethyl ester To a warmea mixture containing 0.72 g 0.005 mole 2,4 diamino 6 chloropyrimidine in 60 ml acetic nitrile is added 4.3 g 0.018 mole 2 carbomethoxy benzenesulfonylisocyanate. The reaction is heated to reflux temperature for four days. After cooling to roan temperature, the resultant precipitate was filtered and dried to yield0.8 g, m.p. 206 210 . The infrared spectrum shows characteristic absorption bands at 1725, 1675 cm 1.Elemental analvsis Call. C, 42.14 H, 3.05 N, 13.40 C1, 5.65 S, 10.23 Found C, 42.2 H, 3.1 N, 14.2 C1, 6.6 S, 10.3 Example 3 N 4 2 Chlorophenyl sulfonylamino carbonylamino 6 methyl 1,3,5 triazin 2 yl acetamide To 15 ml acetonitrile is added 1 g 0.006 mole N 4 amino 6 methyl l, 3,5 triazin 2 yl acetamide and a catalytic amount of dabco triethylenediamine . To this suspension is added 1.8 g 0.008 mole 2 chlorobenzenesulfonylisocyanate. The mixture is heated to 400C and is kept at 400C for 1 hour. The mixture is then cooled down to room temperature and is stirred at room temperature overnight. The solid is then collected by filtration, washed with acetonitrile, methylene chloride and n butyl chloride, and dried to yield 2 g, m.p. 211 213 C The infrared spectrum shows characteristic absorption bands at 1655 cm , 1700 cm . NMR is consistent for the desired product. Compounds of Tables I VI can be prepared according to Equations 1 3, as previously described. Table 1EMI16.1 EMI16.2 tb SEP R1 SEP R2 SEP R4 SEP x SEP F SEP B14 tb SEP 0 tb 4OC2C2CC, SEP H SEP H SEP C1 SEP O SEP H tb SEP 2 SEP 2 SEP 2 SEP 3 SEP H SEP H SEP Cl SEP 0 SEP H tb SEP 0 tb SEP O SEP 0 tb SEP 5 Cl SEP z Ci SEP H SEP to SEP N .SG2 SEP SEP SEP C1 SEP O SEP H tb SEP O SEP C1 tb SEP Cl SEP H SEP d SEP N SEP NuSOo SEP o SEP Cl SEP S SEP H tb SEP ESO, tb SEP O SEP CH3 tb SEP Cd3 SEP 5 CH3 SEP H SEP NESO2 SEP X SEP C1 SEP O SEP H tb SEP cs.R3 tb SEP 0 SEP 0 tb SEP OCH, SEP OCX3 SEP H SEP H SEP 2 SEP C1 SEP O SEP H tb SEP O SEP O tb SEP A SEP OCH3 SEP H SEP H SEP i SEP SOCH3 SEP O SEP H tb SEP O SEP O tb SEP 0CH3 SEP Y. SEP H SEP SEP CH3 SEP O SEP H tb SEP 0 SEP O SEP C1 tb A SEP OCH3 SEP H SEP H SEP A SEP no SEP 4 SEP C1 SEP O SEP H tb Table I continued EMI17.1 tb SEP R1 SEP R7 SEP R4 SEP X SEP z SEP w SEP Fizz SEP W SEP R14 tb SEP 0 tb SEP 0C SEP H SEP H SEP OCH SEP N SEP H SEP OCH3 SEP C1 SEP O SEP H tb SEP CH3 tb SEP O SEP O tb N SEP OCH3 SEP H SEP E SEP N SEP SEP C1 SEP o SEP H tb SEP H tb SEP Cl SEP 6 C1 SEP H SEP H SEP C1 SEP O SEP H tb SEP O SEP C1 tb SEP C1 SEP 6 Cl SEP H SEP ¹ SEP Cl SEP O SEP ta tb SEP . U.502 SEP tb SEP Cl tb SEP 0 tb SEP Br SEP H SEP H SEP SEP F SEP 9 SEP O SEP 1 tb SEP 0 tb SEP CH3 SEP 5 CH3 SEP H SEP X SEP Cl SEP 0 SEP ti tb SEP 9 tb SEP SCH3 SEP H SEP E SEP No SEP C1 SEP C1 SEP O SEP H tb SEP o SEP CH3 tb SEP S 2Ch3 SEP H SEP H SEP SEP AK SEP oly SEP Cl SEP O SEP H tb SEP 0 tb SEP NO2 SEP H SEP H SEP A SEP CF SEP C1 SEP O SEP H tb SEP .3 tb SEP CF3 SEP H SEP H SEP Cl SEP 0 SEP H tb SEP CF3 SEP H SEP H SEP SEP C1 SEP O SEP H tb Table I continued EMI18.1 tb SEP R1 SEP R, SEP R4 SEP X SEP Y SEP W SEP R14 tb SEP G tb SEP I SEP 3 tb sO2N CH3 2 SEP H SEP CH SEP Cl SEP 0 SEP H tb SEP O SEP 0 tb SEP 8 SEP H SEP H SEP RSO2 SEP 4 SEP C1 SEP O SEP H tb SEP 0 tb SEP O SEP o SEP CE3 SEP tb SEP Nwso SEP Cl SEP O SEP H tb SEP CR3 SEP H SEP H tb SEP 0 SEP 0 tb SEP H SEP H SEP N N SEP Cl SEP o tb Table 1EMI19.1 tb SEP ion d tb SEP R1 SEP R2 SEP 4 SEP X SEP Y SEP W SEP R tb SEP X SEP Y SEP W SEP R14 tb SEP o SEP S CH2 2CH3 tb SEP SCH2CH2CH3 SEP H SEP H SEP SEP SEP NHS02 SEP CH3 SEP O SEP H tb SEP CH3 SEP CHo SEP 202S tb SEP S02 CH2 2CH3 SEP H SEP H SEP SEP NHSO, SEP CH3 SEP o SEP H tb SEP CH SEP O tb SEP SO SEP 2N SEP CH3 SEP H SEP H SEP CH3 SEP 0 SEP H tb SEP CH2 3CH3 tb SEP O SEP 0 tb SEP 2 SEP 3 SEP 3 SEP H SEP H SEP H SEP oCH3 SEP CH, SEP C1 SEP 0 SEP H tb SEP 23 tb SEP 0502 SEP CH3 tb SEP O SEP tb SEP OSO,CH3 SEP H SEP H SEP SEP C1 SEP 0 SEP H tb SEP 0 tb SEP ll tb SEP OS02 SEP CH2 3CH3 SEP H SEP H SEP SEP NCH3 SEP C1 SEP 0 SEP H tb SEP 0 tb SEP OSO,CF3 SEP H SEP H SEP CH3 SEP Cl SEP 0 SEP H tb SEP 0 tb SEP S02NCH3 SEP H SEP H SEP SEP sCH3 SEP Cl SEP 0 SEP H tb SEP 0CR3 tb SEP 0 tb SEP C1 SEP 5 CF3 SEP H SEP SEP INCH3 SEP C1 SEP 0 SEP H tb SEP 3 tb SEP 0 tb SEP Cl SEP 5 NO9 SEP H SEP Cl SEP 0 SEP H tb SEP o tb SEP tb SEP C1 SEP 6 OCH SEP H tb SEP 3 SEP 3 SEP C1 SEP 0 SEP H tb SEP 0 tb SEP C1 SEP H SEP SEP CH3 SEP Cl SEP 0 tb Table 1 cont d EMI20.1 tb SEP R1 SEP R2 SEP R3 SEP X SEP Y SEP W SEP R14 tb SEP , , SEP z SEP CH3 SEP , , tb SEP XNu SEP H SEP H SEP SEP CH3 SEP Cl SEP O SEP H tb SEP CH3 tb SEP O SEP 0 tb SEP SEP N SEP CH2CH3 SEP H SEP H SEP SEP NCR3 SEP C1 SEP O SEP EI tb SEP 23 tb SEP H tb SEP O SEP 0 tb SEP 9 SEP N CH SEP H SEP H SEP H SEP NCH3 SEP C1 SEP O SEP H tb SEP OCH3 tb SEP 0 tb SEP OCH3 SEP H SEP H SEP SEP SEP OCH3 SEP CH2CH3 SEP O SEP H tb SEP 3 SEP 23 tb SEP 0 SEP tb SEP C1 SEP H SEP H SEP H SEP CH20CH3 SEP SEP iI tb SEP O SEP 0 tb SEP XOCH3 SEP H SEP H SEP SEP XNHSO2 SEP XO SEP SEP C1 SEP O SEP H tb SEP MISO, tb SEP Q SEP 0 tb SEP Ir OCH, SEP H SEP H SEP CH tb 3 SEP OCH3 SEP H SEP H SEP SEP X SEP N SEP SEP Cl SEP 0 SEP H tb SEP CH tb SEP 3 tb SEP O SEP 0 tb SEP II SEP Ir tb SEP SEP SOCH3 SEP H SEP H SEP SEP N CR2 C CH2 SEP Cl SEP O SEP a tb SEP H SEP H tb SEP 0 SEP 0 tb SEP SOCH3 SEP H SEP H SEP SEP Ir N CH,CH, CH CH2 SEP C1 SEP O SEP CH2 SEP H tb SEP H tb Table 1 cont d EMI21.1 tb R1 SEP R2 SEP R4 SEP X SEP Y SEP W SEP R tb SEP e SEP 14 tb SEP O SEP 0CH3 tb Cl SEP H SEP H SEP SEP NH CH3 SEP C1 SEP O SEP H tb SEP 0 tb C1 SEP H SEP H SEP o NNR SEP CH3 SEP C1 SEP O SEP H tb SEP 0 SEP CS SEP Br SEP C1 SEP O SEP H tb C1 SEP H SEP H SEP SEP XNH SEP X SEP Br SEP C1 SEP O SEP H tb SEP 0 tb C1 SEP H SEP H SEP SEP SEP commat SEP F SEP C1 SEP O SEP H tb SEP 0 tb C1 SEP H SEP H SEP SEP SEP SEP NO2 SEP C1 SEP O SEP H tb SEP 0 tb C1 SEP H SEP H SEP SEP sO SEP s SEP CN SEP Cl SEP O SEP H tb SEP O SEP C1 tb C1 SEP H SEP H SEP SEP to SEP commat SEP C1 SEP C1 SEP O SEP H tb SEP 0 SEP bur tb Cl SEP H SEP H SEP SEP SEP SEP Br SEP C1 SEP O SEP H tb SEP O SEP Bf tb Cl SEP H SEP H SEP SEP XO SEP commat SEP Br SEP C1 SEP O SEP H tb 0 tb C1 SEP H SEP H SEP SEP , SEP X SEP 0 SEP CF3 SEP C1 SEP O SEP H tb C1 SEP H SEP H SEP H SEP C1 SEP O SEP H tb C1 SEP H SEP H SEP H SEP C1 SEP O SEP H tb Br SEP H SEP H SEP H SEP C1 SEP O SEP CH3 tb SEP F SEP H SEP H SEP h SEP C1 SEP O SEP CH3 tb Table IIEMI22.1 EMI22.2 tb SEP R1 SEP R2 SEP R, tb SEP R1 SEP R2 SEP RW SEP X SEP y SEP N SEP R tb SEP 14 tb SEP O SEP O SEP eQ2C tb SEP N SEP OCR3 SEP H SEP H SEP SO2 SEP OCR3 SEP 0 SEP H tb SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP O SEP C1 tb SEP N SEP II SEP 0 SEP H tb SEP OCH3 SEP H SEP H SEP NHSO2 SEP OCR3 tb SEP 3 tb OCH3 SEP X SEP , SEP a, SEP CR3 SEP OCR3 SEP O SEP H tb SEP OCE SEP 8 SEP tb O SEP O SEP 3 tb SEP OCH3 SEP H SEP H SEP N SEP OCR3 SEP o SEP H tb SEP CY. SEP 2CH2CY SEP 3 tb SEP o SEP O tb SEP OCH3 SEP H SEP H SEP N SEP SEP OCH3 SEP O SEP H tb SEP H SEP CF3 tb SEP 0 tb SEP N tb SEP H SEP OCH3 SEP A tb SEP OCH3 SEP H SEP , SEP H SEP A SEP N SEP SEP SOCH3 SEP SEP H tb SEP H SEP F tb SEP O SEP 0 tb N SEP SOCH3 SEP H SEP H SEP N , SEP OCR3 SEP 0 SEP H tb SEP H tb SEP N02 tb OCH3 SEP H SEP H SEP NNR CN SEP OCR3 SEP 0 SEP H tb SEP H tb Table II continued EMI23.1 tb SEP R1 SEP R2 SEP R SEP X SEP Y SEP SEP Rl4 tb SEP O SEP 0 tb SEP OCH3 SEP H SEP H SEP N SEP Cl SEP OCR3 SEP H tb SEP R SEP Cl tb SEP O SEP 0 tb SEP OCH3 SEP H SEP H SEP SEP Ns SEP SEP Br SEP 0CR3 SEP O SEP H tb SEP H SEP Br tb SEP O SEP 0 tb SEP A SEP OC.v3 SEP H SEP H SEP N SEP N SEP H3 SEP OC13 SEP O SEP H tb SEP H tb SEP 0 SEP 0 tb N SEP OCR SEP H SEP H SEP N SEP DCH3 SEP OCH3 SEP o SEP H tb SEP H tb SEP MY tb SEP H SEP g SEP v SEP OCR3 SEP SEP H tb SEP O SEP F tb r SEP H SEP H SEP S02M SEP OCH3 SEP SEP H tb SEP O SEP Cl tb Cl SEP 6 Cl SEP H SEP SHS02 SEP SEP SEP OCH3 SEP O SEP H tb SEP Cl tb SEP O SEP Br tb Br SEP H SEP E SEP SEP 25 2 SEP 4 SEP OC113 SEP SEP H tb SEP 3 tb H SEP 5 CH tb SEP 3 SEP 3 tb SEP 2 SEP OCR SEP H tb SEP 3 tb SEP CR3 tb Table II continued EMI24.1 tb SEP R1 SEP R4 SEP Ra SEP X SEP y SEP tb SEP SEP CH SEP O tb SEP I SEP CR3 SEP H SEP N SEP 2 SEP OCR3 SEP 0 tb SEP N SEP H tb SO2N SEP 2 tb SEP CR3 SEP CR3 2N02S tb SEP 0 SEP 0 tb SEP OC . .3 SEP X SEP H SEP SEP NE SO2 SEP S SEP SEP OCH SEP 0 SEP H tb SEP 3 tb SEP CR302 SEP C tb SEP O SEP 0 tb SEP NOCH3 SEP H SEP H SEP N SEP 0CR3 SEP 0 SEP H tb SEP CE,O,C tb SEP O SEP 0 tb SEP NOCH3 SEP d SEP H SEP A SEP 2.SO SEP SEP 0CR3 SEP O SEP H tb SEP CR3O2C tb SEP 0 tb SEP N tb SEP OCH3 SEP H SEP H SEP N s yo SEP CH3 SEP O SEP H tb SEP CX302C tb SEP O SEP 0 tb SEP H SEP H SEP N SEP 0CR SEP 0 SEP R tb SEP NOCF SEP HS02 SEP OCH3 SEP 3 tb SEP CH302C tb SEP O SEP 0 tb SEP A SEP OCH3 SEP H SEP H SEP SE.SO2 SEP SEP M2CH3 SEP SEP H SEP tb SEP A SEP 0 SEP 3 SEP 2 tb SEP OCX3 SEP H SEP H SEP SEP SITS02 SEP 4 SEP OCH2CR3 tb SEP CY.302C tb Table II continued EMI25.1 tb SEP R1 SEP R2 SEP RL SEP X SEP W SEP R14 tb SEP 0 tb CC.i3 SEP C SEP E SEP 6sÇ,So SEP OCI SEP 0 SEP O SEP H tb SEP J tb SEP CH3O tb SEP 0 tb SC3 SEP H SEP SSO SEP OCI13 SEP O SEP H tb C 3S tb SEP 0 tb S02C r3 SEP H SEP H SEP NN sO SEP OCH3 SEP O SEP H tb SEP Cm3 SEP 502 tb SEP 0 tb SEP A tb NO, SEP E SEP F SEP NRSO SEP SEP Our3 SEP O SEP H tb SEP 02N tb SEP 0 tb CF3 SEP H SEP SQr SEP commat SEP OC.3 SEP O SEP H tb SEP CF3 tb SEP 0 tb SEP Jk tb SEP OCR SEP H SEP H SEP H SEP S SEP F tb SEP 3 tb SEP O SEP Cl tb SEP Cl SEP H SEP H SEP SEP iA1SOv SEP v SEP OCH3 SEP O SEP 11 tb SEP 3 tb SEP O SEP C1 tb SEP Cl SEP H SEP H SEP SEP 1IN 5O SEP N SEP OCH2CR3 SEP 0 SEP H tb SEP O SEP C1 tb SEP Cl SEP H SEP H SEP SEP ESO2 SEP X SEP CH3 SEP O SEP H tb Table IIIEMI26.1 EMI26.2 tb SEP R1 SEP 2 SEP 4 SEP X SEP SEP W SEP R14 tb SEP 0 tb SEP OCR3 SEP H SEP H SEP H SEP C1 SEP O SEP H tb C1 SEP H SEP H SEP H SEP C1 SEP o SEP H tb SEP SUCH3 tb SEP SO SEP H SEP H SEP H SEP rl SEP O SEP H tb SEP 2 SEP CF tb SEP 3 tb SEP O SEP 0 tb SEP 0 tb SEP A SEP O SEP C SEP CR tb SEP OCH3 SEP H SEP NHSO2 SEP X SEP Cw3 SEP O SEP K tb SEP NRSO tb SEP O SEP SEP CH SEP O tb SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP CH30V tb SEP OCH3 SEP H SEP H SEP yPS02 SEP t SEP C1 SEP o SEP H tb SEP O SEP C tb SEP Cl SEP H SEP H SEP SEP NHSO2 SEP t SEP C1 SEP O SEP H tb EMI27.1 EMI27.2 tb R3 SEP 4 SEP SEP Y SEP Y SEP W SEP Rla tb SEP L t tb SEP 0 tb 2 Cl SEP H SEP SEP XNHSO2 SEP T SEP Cl SEP O SEP H tb SEP O tb 2 Cl SEP H SEP SEP oNHSO2 SEP X SEP Cl SEP O SEP H tb SEP CO2CF3 tb 2 Cl SEP F SEP SEP XNCH3 SEP Cl SEP O SEP H tb SEP , SEP , tb SEP 0H tb 2 Cl SEP H SEP SEP sCH3 SEP Cl SEP O SEP H tb SEP 0 tb 2 Cl SEP F SEP SEP XX SEP Cl SEP O SEP H tb SEP 0 tb 2 Cl SEP H SEP SEP XX SEP Cl SEP Cl SEP O SEP H tb SEP 0 tb 2 Cl SEP F SEP SEP OCH3 SEP Cl SEP O SEP H tb SEP 0CF3 tb SEP 0 tb 2 Cl SEP H SEP SEP NO SEP SEP Cl SEP O SEP H tb SEP 0 tb 2 Cl SEP F SEP SEP to SEP SEP F SEP Cl SEP O SEP F tb SEP 0 tb 2 Cl SEP H SEP SEP NN7d SEP SEP Cl SEP O SEP F tb SEP 0 tb 2 Cl SEP CH3 SEP SEP CHB SEP Cl SEP O SEP H tb SEP 0 tb 2 Cl SEP H SEP SEP NCR3 SEP Cl SEP O SEP CH3 tb SEP 0 tb 2 3r SEP H SEP SEP . SEP , SEP SEP Cl SEP SEP H tb SEP 0 SEP 7 tb 2 r SEP H SEP SEP riC.i SEP SEP H tb SEP j tb Table IV cont d EMI28.1 tb R3 SEP R4 SEP X SEP Y SEP W SEP R14 tb SEP 4 tb SEP 0 tb 4 C1 SEP CR3 SEP CH3 SEP C1 SEP O SEP H tb SEP 0 tb 2 CH3 SEP H SEP NCR3 SEP C1 SEP O SEP H tb SEP 0 tb 2 OCH3 SEP H SEP SEP SEP NCR3 SEP C1 SEP O SEP H tb SEP 0 tb 2 NO2 SEP H SEP SEP SOCH3 SEP C1 SEP O SEP H tb SEP o SEP O tb 2 SEP SEP SEP OCH3 SEP H SEP SEP NOTCH tb SEP It SEP H SEP NOCH3 SEP Cl SEP 0 SEP H tb SEP O SEP 0 tb SEP H SEP SEP SEP O SEP SEP H SEP SEP SEP NLNH CR3 SEP C1 SEP O SEP H tb SEP ll tb 2 SCH3 SEP H SEP I1 NHCH SEP C1 SEP O SEP H tb SEP 3 tb SEP 0 tb SEP ll tb S SEP 2C SEP 3 SEP H SEP SEP sOCH3 SEP C1 SEP O SEP H tb SEP 0 tb 2 SCR SEP 2CR2CR3 SEP H SEP OCH3 SEP C1 SEP O SEP H tb SEP 0 tb SEP ll tb H SEP H SEP SEP NOCH3 SEP C1 SEP O SEP H tb Table VEMI29.1 EMI29.2 tb R3 SEP R4 SEP X SEP Y SEP tsT SEP R14 tb SEP 0 tb 7 C1 SEP H SEP I1 CH SEP CH SEP O SEP H tb CF SEP H SEP H tb 2 Cl SEP F SEP CR3 SEP 3 tb SEP 0 tb SEP ll tb 2 Cl SEP F SEP SEP XNHCH SEP CH3 SEP SEP F tb SEP 3 SEP 3 tb SEP 0 tb 2 Cl SEP F SEP O SEP CF3 SEP 0 SEP H tb 2 C1 SEP OCH3 SEP CH3 tb SEP 0 tb 2 Br SEP H SEP Q SEP 0 SEP SEP CH3 SEP 0 SEP H tb SEP 0 tb 2 F SEP H SEP SEP 0C1 SEP OCH3 SEP 0 SEP F tb SEP 0 tb 2 C1 SEP F SEP SEP HS02 SEP OCH3 SEP 0 SEP H tb SEP 0 SEP 1 tb 2 Cl SEP H SEP NSO2ffiym SEP OCH3 SEP F tb SEP N SEP 3 tb SEP C1 tb Table VIEMI30.1 EMI30.2 tb R3 SEP R4 SEP X SEP W SEP R14 SEP Y tb SEP O SEP Cl tb 2 Cl SEP H SEP SEP sNHSO2 SEP O SEP O SEP H SEP C1 tb SEP 0 tb 2 C1 SEP H SEP SEP SHCH3 SEP O SEP 0 SEP H SEP C1 tb SEP 0 tb 2 Cl SEP R SEP OCH SEP O SEP H tb O SEP 3 tb 2 C1 SEP TR SEP SEP sO SEP SEP C1 SEP O SEP H SEP C1 tb SEP 0 tb 2 Cl SEP H SEP SEP sNH SEP SEP Cl SEP O SEP H SEP C1 tb Formulations Useful formulations of the compounds ofFormula I can be prepared in conventional ways.They include dusts, granules, pellets, solutions, suspensions, emulsions, wettable powders, emulsifiable concentrates and the like. Many of these may be applied directly. Sprayable formulations can be extended in suitable media and used at spray volumes of from a few liters to several hundred liters per hectare. Righ strength compositions are primarily used as intermediates for further formulation. The formulations, broadly, contain about 0.18 to 999 by weight of active ingredient s dnd at least one of a about 0.1 to 20 surfactant s and b about 18 to 99.9 solid or liquid diluent s . ore specifically, they may contain these ingredients in the following approxirnate proportions Table V Weight Active Ingredient Diluent s Surfactant s Wettable Powders 20 90 0 74 1 10Oil Suspensions, Emulsions, Solu tions including Emulsifiable Concentrates 3 50 40 95 0 15 Aqueous Suspensions 10 50 40 84 1 20 Dusts 1 25 70 99 0 5 Granules and Pellets 0.1 95 5 99.9 0 15 High Strength Compositions 90 99 0 10 0 2 Lower or higher levels of active ingredient can, of course, be present depending on the intended use and the physical properties of the compound.Higher ratios of surfactant to active ingredient are sometimes desirably, and are achieved by incor poration into the formulation or by tank mixing. Typical solid diluents are described in Watkins, et al., Handbook of Insecticide DustDiluents and Carriers , 2nd Ed., Dorland Books,Caldwell, New Jersey. The more absorptive diluents are preferred for wettable powders and the denser ones for dusts. Typical liquid diluents and solvents are described in Marsden, Solvents Guide , 2nd Ed., Interscience, New York, 1950.Solubility under 0.1 is preferred for suspension concentrates solution concentrates are preferably stable against phase separation at OOC. McCutcheon s Detergents and Emulsifiers Annual , MC Publishing Corp., Ridgewood, New Jersey, as well as Sisely and Wood, Encyclopedia of Surface Active Agents , Cynical Publishing Co., Inc., New York, 1964, list surfactants and recommended uses. All formulations can contain minor amounts of additives to reduce foam, caking, corrosion, microbiological growth, etc. The methods of making such compositions are well known. Solutions are prepared by simply mixing the ingredients. Fir.e solid compositions are made by blending and, usually, grinding as in a hammer or fluid energy mill. Suspensions are prepared by wet milling see, for example, Littler, U.S. Patent 3,060,084 . Granules and pellets may be made by spraying the active material upon preformed granular carriers or by agglomeration techniques. See J.Browning, Agglomeration , Chemical Engineering, December 4, 1967, pp. 147ff. and Perry s ChemicalEngineer s Handbook , 4th Ed., McGraw Hill, New York, 1963, pp. 8 59ff. For further information regarding the art o formulation, see for example H. M. Loux, U.S. Patent 3,235,361, February 15, 1966, Col. 6, line 16 through Col. 7, line 19 andExamples 10 through 41. R. W. Luckenbaugh, U.S. Patent 3,309,192,March 14, 1967, Col. 5, line 43 through Col. 7, line 62 and Examples 8, 12, 15, 39, 41, 52, 53, 132, 138 140, 162 164, 166, 167 and 169 182. H. Gysin and E. Knusli, U.S. Patent 2,831,855, June 23, 1959, Col. 3, line 66 through Col. 5, line 17 and Examples 1 4. G. C. Klingman, Weed Control as a Science ,John Wiley Sons, Inc., New York, 1961, pp. 81 96. J. D. Fryer and S. A. Evans, weed ControlHandbook , Sth Ed., Blackwell Scientific Publications, Oxford, 1963, pp. 101 103. In the following examples all parts are by weight unless otherwise indicated. Example 4Wettable PowderDimethyl 2,2 6 chloropyrimidine 2,4 diylbis aminocarbonyl aminosulfonyl lbis benzoate 50 sodium alkylnaphthalene sulfonate 2 low viscosity methyl cellulose 2 diatomaceous earth 46 The ingredients are blended, coarsely hammer milled and then air milled to produce particles essentially all below 10 microns in diameter. The product is reblended before packaging. Example 5Granule wettable powder of Example 4 5 attapulgite granules 95 U.S.S. 20 40 mesh 0.84 0.42 mm A slurry of wettable powder containing 25 solids is sprayed on the surface of attapulgite granules in a double cone blender. The granules are dried and packaged. Example 6Oil SuspensionDimethyl 2,2 6 chloropyrimidine 2,4 dilllbis aminocarbonyl aminosulfonyl bis benzoate 25 polyoxyethylene sorbitol hexaoleate 5 highly aliphatic hydrocarbon oil 70 The ingredients are ground together in a sand mill until the solid particles have been reduced to under about 5 microns. The resulting suspension 22y be applied directly, but preferably after being extended with oils or emulsified in water. Example 7Low Strength GranuleDimethyl 2,2 6 chloropyrimidine 2,4 diylbis aminocarbonyl aminosulfonyl bis benzoate 0.18 attapulgite granules 99.5 U.S.S. 20 40 mesh The active ingredient is dissolved in a solvent and the solution is sprayed upon deducted granules in a double cone blender. After spraying of the solution has been completed, the material warmed to evaporate the solvent. The material 5 allowed to cool and then packaged. Example Wettable Powder Methyl 2 4 amino 6 chloropyrimidin 2 yl aminocarbonyl aminosulfonyl benzoate 80 sodium alkylnaphthalenesul fonate 2 sodium ligninsulfonate 2 synthetic amorphous silica 3 kaolinite 13 The ingredients are blended, hammer milled until the solids are essentially under 50 microns, reblended and packaged. Example 9Extruded PelletMethyl 2 4 amino 6 chloropyrimidin 2 yl amino carbonyl aminosulfonyl benzoate 25 anhydrous sodium sulfate 10 crude calcium ligninsulfonate 5 sodium alkylnaphthalenesul fonate 19 calcium magnesium bentonite 598 The ingredients are blended, hammer milled and then moistened with about 12 water. The mixture is extruded as cylinders about 3 mm diameter which are cut to produce pellets about 3 mm long. These may be used directly after drying, or the dried pellets may be crushed to pass a U.S.S. No. 20 sieve 0.84 mm openings . The granules held on a U.S.S No. 40 sieve 0.42 mm openings may be packaged for use and the fines recycled. Example 10Wettable PowderMethyl 2 4 amino 6 chloropyrimidin 2 yl amino carbonyl aminosulfonyl benzoate 20 sodium alkylnaphthalenesul fonate 48 sodium ligninsulfonate 4 low viscosity methyl cellulose 35 attapulgite 69 The. ingredients are thoroughly blended.After grinding in a hammer mill to produce particles essentially all below 100 microns, the material is reblended and sifted through a U.S.S. No. 50 sieve 0.3 mm opening and packaged. Example 11.High Strength ConcentrateMethyl 2 4 amino 6 chloropyrimidin 2 yl amino 2 yl amino carbonyl aminosulfonyl benzoate 99 silica aerogel 0.58 synthetic amorphous silica The ingredients are blended and ground in a hammer mill to produce a material essentially ali passing a U.S.S. No. 50 screen 0.3 mm opening .The concentrate may be formulated further necessary. Example 12Aqueous SuspensionMethyl 2 4 amino 6 chloropyrimidin 2 yl amino carbonyl aminosulfonyl bienzoate 40 Polyacrylic acid thickener 0.3 Dodecylphenol polyethylene glycol ether 0. Disodium phosphate 1 Monosodium phosphate 0.58 Polyvinyl alcohol 1.0 Water 56.7 The ingredients are blended and ground to gether in a sand mill to produce particles essentially all under 5 microns in size. Example 13GranuleMethyl 2 4 amino 6 chloropyrimidin 2 yl amino carbonyl aminosulfonyl benzoate 80 wetting agent 1 crude ligninsulfonate salt containing 5 208 of the natural sugars 105 attapulgite clav 9 The ingredients are blended and milled to pass through a 100 mesh screen. This material is then added to a fluid bed granulator, the air flow is adjusted to gently fluidize the material, and a fine spray of water is sprayed onto the fluidized material. The fluidization and spraying are continued until granules of the desired size range are made.The spraying is stopped, but fluidization is continued, optionally with heat, until the water content is reduced to the desired level, generally less than 18. The material is then discharged, screened to the desired size range, generally 14 100 mesh 1910 149 microns , and packaged for use. The compounds of Formula I are useful as herbicites. They may be applied either pre or postemergence for the control of undesired vegetation in noncrop areas or for selective weed control in certain crops, e.g., wheat. Some of these compounds are vse ful for the pre and or post emergence control of nutsedge. By properly selecting rate and tine of application, compounds of tis invention may be use to modify plant growth beneficially. The precise amount of the compound of Formula I to be used in any given situation will vary according to the particular end result desired, the use involved, the weeds to be controlled, the soil type, the formulation and mode of application, weather conditions, etc. Since so many variables play a role, it is not possible to state 2 rate of appli cation suitable for all situations. Broadlv speaking, the compounds of this invention are used at levels of about 0.01 to 20 kg ha with a preferred range of 0.1 to 10 kg ha. The lower rates of the range will generally be selected for lighter soils, for selective weed control in crops, or in situations where maximum persistence is not necessary.Some of the compounds of Formula I can be used at ver low rates for plant growth modification, but higher rates may also be useful, depending on factors such as crop being treated, timing of treatment, etc. The compounds of Formula I may be combined wit other herbicides and are particularly useful in com bination with 3 3,4 dichlorophenyl 1,1 dimethyluree, the triazines, suc as 2 chloro 4 ethvlamino 6 isopropylamino s triazine, the rails such as 5 bromo 3 sec butyl 6 methyl uracil, N phosphonomethyl glycine, 3 cyclohexyl 1 methyl 6 dimethyl amino s triazine 2,4 1H,3H dione, N,N dimethyl2,2 diphenylacetamide, 2,4 dichlorophenoxyacetic acid and closely related compounds , 4 chloro 2butynyl 3 chlorophenylcarbamate Carbyne , diisopropylthiolcarbamic acid, ester with 2,3 dichloro allyl alcohol Avadex , diisopropylthiolcarbamic acid, S 2,3,3 trichloroallyl ester Avadex BW ethyl N benzoyl N 3,4 dichlorophenyl 2 aminopropionate Suffix , 1,2 dimethyl 3,5 diphenylpyrazolium methyl sulfate Avenge , methyl 2 4 2,4 dichlorophenoxy phenoxyl propanoate Holelon , amino 6 tert butyl 3 methylthio 1,2,4 triazin 5 4H one Lexone , 3 3,4 dichlorophenyl l methoxy lmethylurea Lorox , 3 isopropyl 1H 2,1,3 benzothiodiazin 4 3H one 2,2 dioxide, alpha , alpha , alpha trifluoro 2,6 dinitro N,N dipropyl p toluidine, 1,1 dimethyl4,4 bipyridinium ion, monosodium methanearsonate, 2 chloro 2 ,6 diethyl methoxymethyl acetanilide, and 1,1 dimethyl 3 alpha , alpha , alpha trifluoro m tolyl urea Cotoran . The activity of compounds of formula I was investigated in a number of greenhouse tests. The tests are described and the data resulting from them are shown below. Test Procedure A Seeds of crabgrass Digitaria spp. . barnyardgrass Echinochloa cruscalli , wild oats Avena fatua , Cassia tora, morningglory Ipornoea spp. , cocklebur Xanthium spp. , sorghum, corn, soybean, rice, wheat and nutsedge tubers were planted n growth medium and treated pre emergence with te chemicals dissolved in a non phytotoxic solvent.At the same time, cotton having five leaves including cotyledonary ones , bush beans with the second trifoliate leaf expanding, crabgrass with two leaves, barnyardgrass with two leaves, wild oats with one leaf, cassia with three leaves including cotyledonary ones , morningglory with four leaves including the cotyledonary ones , cocklebur with four leaves including the cotyledonary ones sorghum with three leaves, corn with three leaves, soybean with two cotyledonary leaves, rice with to leaves, wheat with two leaves, and nutsedge with three five leaves were sprayed.Treated plants and controls were maintained in a greenhouse for sixteen days, then all species were compared to controls and visually rated for response to treat ment. The ratings are based on a numerical scaie extending from 0 no injury, to 10 complete kill.The accompanying descriptive symbols have the following meanings G growth retardation C chlorosis necrosis D defoliation E emergence inhibition H formative effects ano U unusual pigmentation. The data for compounds tested by this procedure are in Table A Table AEMI41.1 tb SEP C tb SEP tb SEP 0 SEP tb SEP C tb SEP WA tb SEP z SEP C, tb SEP . SEP tb SEP kg ha SEP 0.4 SEP 0.4 tb SEP POST EM.ERGcSCE tb SEP BUS Bru SEP 8D SEP 7G SEP 6Y SEP 9C tb SEP COTTON SEP 3C SEP 3H SEP 6G SEP 5C,9G tb SEP MORNINGGLORY SEP 4C SEP 9C SEP 10C tb COCKLBUR SEP 2C SEP , SEP 9C tb SEP CASSIA SEP p SEP 6C SEP 90 tb L SEP SUTSEDGE SEP 9G SEP 9C tb SEP CRABGRASS SEP 2C SEP 70 SEP 2C,9 tb SEP BAPSiARDGRASS SEP 9C SEP 10C tb SEP WILD SEP OATS SEP 2C SEP 9G SEP 3C SEP 90 tb SEP 2C.3G SEP SEP 2 SEP 3C SEP 8G tb SEP CORN SEP nC.9H SEP 6U SEP 9G tb SEP SOYBEAN SEP 2C SEP 3H SEP 9G SEP 4C,9G tb SEP RICE SEP So SEP 90 tb SEP SORGHUM SEP C.9C SEP 10C tb SEP PRE EMERGENCE tb SEP MORNINCOLORY SEP SG SEP 90 tb SEP COCKLEBUR SEP 9G SEP 9H tb SEP CASSIA SEP 7G SEP 5C,9G tb SEP NO SEDGE SEP 10E SEP 10E tb SEP C2ABGRtSS SEP iC SEP 3G SEP 6G tb SEP BARN YARD0RASS SEP I SEP 2C SEP 9F SEP 9H tb SEP WILD SEP OATS SEP I SEP lC,80 SEP 3C,9H tb SEP WHEAT SEP 7G tb SEP lC,9C SEP 5C,3G tb SEP SOY3tAN SEP 6H SEP H tb SEP RICE SEP fizz SEP 10E tb SEP SoRGoE t SEP 3C.9R tb Test Procedure B Two plastic bulb pans were filled with fertilized and limed Fallsington silt loam soil.One pan was planted with corn, sorghum, Kentucky bluegrass and several grassy weeds. The other pan was planted with cotton, soybeans, purple nutsedge Cyperus rotundus , and several broadleaf weeds. The foliowi grassy and broadleaf weeds were planted crabgrass Digitaria sanguinalis , barnyardgrass Echinochloa crusgalli , wild oats Avena fatua , johnsongrass Sorghum halepense , dallisgrass Paspalum dilatatum , giant foxtail Setaria faberii , cheatgrass Bromus secalinus , mustard Brassica arvensis , cocklebur Xanthium pensylvanicum , pieed. Amaranthus retroflexus , morningglory Ipomoea hederacea , cassia Cassia tora , teaweed Sida spinosa , velvetleaf Abutilon theophrasti , and jimsonweed Datura stramonium .A 12.5 cm diameter plastic pot was also filled with prepared soil and planted with rice and wheat. Another 12.5 cm pot was planted with sugar beets. The above four containers were treated preemergence with several test compounds within the scope of the invention. Twenty eight days after treatment, the plants were evaluated and visually rated for response to the chemical treatments utilizing the rating system described previously for Test A. The data are summarized in Table B. Table B cont d EMI43.1 tb SEP PRE EJIERGENCE SEP ON SEP FALLSI GTON SEP SILT SEP LOM 1 tb SEP O SEP SEP 2 tb SEP 2 tb SEP COUCH, SEP Ci tb SEP n.0 tb SEP Rate SEP kç hs SEP n SEP ha SEP O SEP n6 SEP SEP 0.2 tb SEP Crabçrass SEP 50 SEP 7C SEP 8G SEP 3C tb SEP Barnarderas SEP 6C .3N SEP 8C,5 n SEP lOC tb SEP Sorzhuo SEP 10C SEP 10C tb SEP wield SEP Ozts SEP 3G,2C SEP hS SEP 10C SEP 1 tb SEP Johnsoncrass SEP 9G,6C SEP 9G,9C SEP lOC tb SEP Dalliszrass SEP 5G, SEP 6C SEP 9G SEP 9d tb SEP Giant SEP foxtail SEP SEP 5G SEP 15C tb SEP Kv. SEP blue ress SEP 6G SEP 1 SEP C SEP 7G SEP tC SEP 9c SEP 9C tb SEP Cheaterass SEP 8G,7C SEP 8 SEP 10C SEP lOC tb SEP Sucarbeets SEP 7G,7C SEP 10C SEP 8Gr8C tb SEP Corn SEP 70 SEP 7R SEP 80 SEP SC SEP 10C tb SEP Mustard SEP 10C SEP lOC SEP 10C tb SEP Cocklebur SEP 7G,5H SEP 70 SEP SH tb SEP Pi SEP weed tb SEP NutsedBe SEP 1QE SEP 10E SEP 10E tb SEP Cotton SEP O SEP 2H SEP 80 SEP SR tb SEP Morning SEP R SEP lorv SEP 3G SEP 6G SEP 7G,5H tb SEP Cassia SEP 5G SEP 8G SEP 8C SEP .8G,9C8G, tb SEP weed SEP O SEP 8E SEP 10E tb SEP Velvetleaf SEP 7,5H SEP 10C SEP 10C tb SEP Jinsonweed SEP Q SEP n SEP 5G,6C tb SEP Soybean SEP 7G SEP I SEP ...7G, SEP 5H SEP 7G,5H SEP 8H tb SEP Rice SEP I SEP 10F SEP 10E tb SEP Wheat SEP 4 SEP 80 SEP 8G, SEP 8C tb 4 tb Table BEMI44.1 tb SEP PRE DIERGENCE SEP OS SEP FAlLSI SEP GTON SEP SILT SEP LOtM tb SEP 0 tb SEP C SEP N SEP Cl tb SEP eS 2S SEP Do tb SEP N SEP . tb SEP COOCH3 SEP so SEP tb SEP 2 tb SEP COUCH3 tb SEP ccccii. tb Rite SEP kqXha SEP 0.03 SEP 0 SEP 12 SEP 0.12 tb SEP Crabgrass SEP n SEP n SEP 0 tb SEP barns SEP rod SEP ardar2 s SEP Q tb SEP Sorçhu SEP 7G,3 r tb ats SEP Ozts SEP n SEP 0 SEP SEP SEP 0 tb Johnsonrass SEP 70 SEP 3H tb Dallis SEP rass SEP Q tb Giant SEP foxtail SEP n tb SEP Kv. SEP blueerass SEP n SEP 35 tb SEP Cheat SEP asps SEP n SEP SEP 3s tb SEP Suàrbeets SEP n tb Corn SEP O SEP 25 tb Mustard SEP n SEP 8G,3C tb Cocklebur SEP O SEP 0 tb Pi eed tb Nutsed SEP e SEP 2t SEP 8G tb Cotton SEP O SEP I SEP 20 tb Morning SEP 1 SEP ing,orv SEP n SEP O tb SEP Cassia SEP 5 SEP O tb Teavseed SEP tb 0 tb SEP SEP e SEP SEP . SEP in tb i so SEP weed SEP O tb SEP Sovbean SEP O SEP 0 tb Rice SEP 70 SEP SR tb Wheat SEP SEP O tb SEP l tb Table B cont d EMI45.1 tb SEP PRE DIERGENCE SEP ON SEP FALLSINCTON SEP SILT SEP LOAM tb SEP SEP tb SEP 0 tb SEP X SEP a 0 tb SEP z SEP Zf SEP ZAZ tb SEP X SEP SEP 1 1 tb SEP 2 0 tb SEP w tb SEP Rate SEP lcg ha SEP 0 SEP 06 SEP O SEP 0 SEP 2 tb SEP Crab SEP n SEP n tb SEP Barnvardorass SEP n tb SEP Sorghum SEP RFI tb SEP Wild SEP Oats tb SEP Johnson SEP SEP n SEP 3r, tb SEP Dallis SEP rass SEP tb SEP Giant SEP foxtail SEP n SEP n tb SEP Kv. SEP blueorass tb SEP Cheatgrass SEP n tb SEP Su SEP arbeets SEP n tb SEP Corn tb SEP ustard SEP PC.RL SEP 8r,.9e tb SEP Cocklebur SEP n SEP 7 tb SEP Pinweed SEP n SEP n tb SEP Nutsede SEP n SEP 1 SEP i tb SEP Nutsedoe SEP SEP SEP n SEP n SEP . tb SEP Cotton tb SEP Mornin SEP lorv tb i SEP Cassia tb SEP T SEP aweed tb SEP V SEP lv SEP e tb SEP Jimsonweed SEP n tb SEP Sovbean SEP 3H SEP 2G,W tb SEP Rice SEP 4G SEP 7G,8C tb SEP Wheat SEP 0 SEP 6G, SEP 5C tb l tb Test Procedure C Two 25 cm 1G inch in diameter plastic pans lined with polyethylene liners were filled with prepared Fallsington silt loam soil. One pan was planted with seeds of wheat Triticum aestivum , barley Hordeum vulgare , wild oats Avena fatua , downy brome Bromus tectorum cheatgrass Bromus secali nus , blackgrass Alopecurus myosuroides , annual bluegrass Poa annua , green foxtail Setaria viridis , quackgrass Agropyron repens , Italian ryegrass Lolium multiflorum and ripgut brome Bromus rigidus .The other pan was planted with seeds of Russian thistle Salsola tali , tansy mustard Descuraina pinnata , smartweed Polygonum pensylvanicum , tumble mustard Sisymbrium altissium , kochia Kochia scoparia ,shepherd s purse CaPsella bursa pastoris , Matricaria inodora, black night shade Solanum nigrum , yellow rocket Barbarea vulgaris , wild mustard Brassica kaber and wild buckwheat Polygonum convolvulus The above two pans were treated pre emergence. At the same time two pans in which the above plant species were growing were treated post emergence. Plant height at the time of treatment ranged from 1 15 cm depend ing on plant species. The compounds applied were diluted with a non phytotoxic solvent and sprayed over the top of the pans. An untreated control and a solvent alone control were included for comparison. All treatments were maintained in the greenhouse for 20 days at which time the treatments were compared to the controls and the effects visually rated. The recorded data are presented in Table C. Table CEMI47.1 tb SEP T tb SEP X SEP so2 2E Cz tb SEP SO2NH4 SEP tb SEP N SEP O tb SEP CCOCH. tb SEP 3 SEP MI C iH SO tb SEP COOCH3 tb SEP Post emergence SEP Pre emergence tb SEP Rate SEP kq ha SEP 0.06 SEP 0.06 tb 1 tb SEP wheat SEP 0 tb SEP barlev SEP 0 tb SEP wild SEP oats SEP 0 SEP 1G tb SEP downv SEP brome SEP 2C, SEP 3G SEP lC SEP 10 tb SEP cheatgrass SEP 3C, SEP 6G SEP 6C SEP 70 tb SEP blackgrass SEP bC, SEP iG SEP 1C SEP 30 tb SEP annual SEP bluegrass SEP 5 SEP 5G tb SEP green SEP foxtail SEP j SEP 1C, SEP 2G SEP 1G tb SEP quackgrass SEP zG SEP 1C SEP 2G tb SEP Italian SEP ryegrass SEP 3G SEP 3C SEP 40 tb SEP ripgut SEP brome SEP 0 SEP SEP 0 tb SEP Russian SEP thistle SEP 2G SEP SEP SEP SEP 2C SEP 30 tb SEP tansy SEP mustard SEP 3C SEP 60 SEP 8C SEP 80 tb SEP smartweed tb L tb SEP jimhill SEP mustard SEP SEP 7C SEP 8G SEP 10C tb SEP Kochia SEP 2G SEP 3C SEP 40 tb SEP shepherd s SEP purse SEP 8C SEP 80 SEP 5C SEP 40 tb SEP false SEP chamomile SEP 3 SEP 4G SEP 3C SEP 30 tb SEP black SEP nightshade SEP 3C SEP 2 SEP 0 tb SEP vellow SEP rocket SEP X SEP , SEP 8wG SEP 6C SEP 5G tb SEP wild SEP mustard SEP 10C SEP 8C SEP 8G tb SEP wild SEP buckwheat SEP 3C SEP 30 SEP 3C SEP 40 tb Test Procedure D Purple nutsedge Cyperus rotundus tubers were planted about 2 cm deep in Fallsington silt loam soil contained in 10 cm diameter plastic pots. Five tubers were planted in each pot. Compounds of this invention were dissolved in an non phytotoxic diluent and sprayed at 560 l ha in four methods of application soil surface, tuber soil, soil incorporated, and post emergence. The soil surface spray consisted of spraying the compound on the surface of the firmed covering soil. The tuber soil spray consisted of spraying the compound on exposed tubers and subtending soil before adding the untreated covering soil. Soil incorporated treatment consisted in mixing the compound with the covering soil before using it to cover the tubers. The post emergence treatment was sprayed on nutsedge foliage and the surrounding soil surface when nuts edge had emerged and grown to a height of about 12 cm. Pots receiving the postemergence treatments were placed directly in the greenhouse. Pots receiving the other treatments were misted with about 0.3 cm water before being transferred to the greenhouse. Response ratings assessed after four weeks are recorded in Table D based on the same rating system as described in procedure A. Table DNutsedge ControlEMI49.1 EMI49.2 tb SEP Response SEP Rating SEP after SEP 4 SEP wks tb SEP Rate SEP Preemerg. SEP Tuber SEP Soil tb Postemerg. tb SEP kg ha SEP Soil SEP Surface SEP Spray SEP Incorp. tb SEP 0.008 SEP 2G SEP 2G SEP 2G SEP 2G tb SEP 0.031 SEP 2G SEP 2G SEP 3G SEP 4G tb SEP 0.125 SEP 5E,8G SEP 10E SEP 8E,8G SEP 3C,7G tb Test Procedure E Twenty five cm diameter plastic pots filled with Fallsington silt loam were planted to soybeans, cotton, alfalfa, corn, rice, wheat, sorghum, velvetleaf Abutilon theophrasti , sesbania Sesbania exaltata , cassia Cassia tora , morningglory Ipomoea hederacea , jimsonweed Datura stramonium , cocklebur anthium pensylvanicum , crabgrass Digitaria spp. , nutsedge Cyperus rotundus , barnyardgrass tchinochloa crusgalli , giant foxtail Setaria faberii and wild oats Avena fatua .Approximately 2 1 2 weeks after planting, the young plants and tne soil around them were sprayed overall with the test chemIcals dissolve in a nonphytotoxic solvent. Fourteen days after treatment, all species were compared to untreated controls and visually rated for response to treatment.The rating system was as described previously for Test A. the data are presented in Table E Table EEMI51.1 tb SEP 0 tb I SEP NN0 tb SEP COOCH3 SEP C1 tb SEP Rate SEP 1 SEP n SEP k SEP n SEP .nF SEP ha tb SEP Soybeans SEP loc SEP lOC SEP 10C SEP 1C SEP 9G,6C tb SEP Velvetleaf SEP SEP SEP 9G,5C tb SEP Sesbania SEP lOC SEP SEP 8G,4C tb SEP Cassia SEP lng.,an SEP 0 SEP 100 SEP 7 SEP lOG,7C SEP 6G,2C tb SEP Cotton SEP R SEP 3C SEP 6G,3C SEP 6G,3C tb SEP Morningglory SEP lnr SEP i SEP 10G SEP 7C SEP 8G,3C SEP i SEP 6G,2C tb SEP SEP 1 SEP 10G, SEP 7C SEP 8G, SEP 3C SEP 6G,2C SEP 1 tb SEP Alfalfa SEP 1 SEP ne SEP j SEP 1 SEP Oc SEP 9C SEP 7G,2C tb SEP Jimsonweed SEP SEP SEP SEP 0 tb SEP Cocklebur SEP 9C SEP 9f SEP SEP 7G,3C SEP 8G,5C tb SEP Corn SEP qf., C. SEP 9,5G SEP 9G,SH SEP 4G,4H tb SEP Crabgrass SEP qc,an SEP 9G SEP 1G SEP O tb SEP Rice SEP d SEP 90 SEP 3C SEP 7G,3C SEP 7G,X SEP 7G,2C tb SEP Nutsedge SEP 9G SEP 7G,1C SEP 7G tb SEP Barnyardrass SEP ln.r SEP 9G15C SEP 9G,5C SEP 7G,1C tb SEP Jheat SEP 7G. SEP r SEP 7G,2C SEP 2G SEP 0 tb SEP , SEP . SEP , SEP , tb SEP Giant SEP Foxtail SEP SEP SEP 8G,JC tb SEP Wild SEP Oats SEP lnnf6 SEP 9G,4C SEP 8G,2C SEP 4G tb SEP Sorohum SEP snG SEP 8C SEP 90 SEP 9G,4C SEP 9G,2C tb SEP L SEP f tb