# A method for making a stabilized sulfur containing amino acid fortified foodstuff.

## Abstract
Better tasting and more stable sulfur containing amino acid fortified foodstuffs are provided. Improved sulfur contain ing amino acid fortified foodstuffs, comprising an intimate mixture of said amino acid and a sulfur containing amino acid compatible edible material are disclosed. Some shelf stable examples of the invention are 1 N acetyl L methionine NALM suspended in a plastic triglyceride fat or a liquid oil, and 2 said NALM triglyceride suspension mixed with dry, tex turized meat analog granules. The invention provides improved shelf stable sulfur containing amino acid fortified foodstuffs by effectively protecting the sulfur containing amino acid from any destabilizer components present in certain foodstuff ma terials before said sulfur containing amino acid is mixed with foodstuff materials containing said destabilizer components.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A storage stable sulfur containing amino acid composition characterised by an intimate mixture of a a sulfur containing amino acid selected from the group consisting of N acyl L methionine, N acyl L cystine, N acyl L ysteine and the salts, esters and derivatives thereof, wherein the acyl group is derived from fatty acids having from 1 to 24 carbon atoms, and the ester group is derived from fatty alcohols having from I to 22 carbon atoms, and b a sulfur containing amino acid compatible material selected from the group consisting of an edible triglyceride, a starch, a fat ethyl cellulose gel, a protein rich material, and gum arabic. 2. A composition according to Claim 1 characterised in that the amino acid compatible material is tristearin. 3 A composition according to Claim I or 2 characterised in that the sulfur containing amino acid is selected from the group consisting of N acetyl L methionine and the esters and salts thereof wherein the ester group is derived from fatty alcohols having from 1 to 22 carbon atoms, and wherein the salt is selected from the group consisting of edible alkaline and alkali earth metal salts. 4. A fortified foodstuff characterised in that it comprises a storage stable sulfur containing amino acid composition according to any of Claims 1 to 3 optionally together with foodstuff material comprising an amino acid destabilizing component. 5. A fortified meat analog characterised by comprising a cocrystallate consisting of an alkali metal or alkaline earth metal salt of a sulfur containing amino acid and an effective amount of a soluble, edible cocrystallizer material, wherein said cocrystallizer material is selected from the group consisting of alkali and alkali earth metal salts of halides, phosphates and nitrates, suitable organic acids and their salts, crystalline starches, suitable polyhydric alcohols, crystalline cellulose, crystalline sugars, and mixtures thereof and an edible triglyceride, said cocrystallate being mixed with said triglyceride. 6. A fortified foodstuff characterised by an intimate mixture of a water insoluble salt of an amino acid selected from the group consisting of N acyl L methionine,N acyl L cystine and N acyl L cysteine, and meat analog particles. 7. A method of making a storage stable sulfur containing amino acid fortified foodstuff characterised by forming an intimate mixture of a a sulfur con taining amino acid selected from the group consisting of N acyl L methionine, N acyl L cystine, N acyl L cysteine and the salts, esters and derivatives thereof, wherein the acyl group is derived from fatty acids having from 1 to 24 carbon atoms, and the ester group is derived from fatty alcohols having from 1 to 22 carbon atoms, and b a sulfur containing amino acid compatible material selected from the group consisting of an edible triglyceride, a starch, a fat ethyl cellulose gel, a protein rich material, and guni arabic. 8. A method according to Claim 7 characterised in that he intimate mixture comprises a mixture of said sulfurcontaining amino acid and either a liquid triglyceride or a protein isolate. 9. A method according to Claim 7 characterised in that the intimate mixture comprises a sulfur containing amino acid encapsulated either with a starch or gum arabic. 10. A method according to any of Claims 7 to 9 characterised in that the sulfur containing amino acid is contained and protected in said mixture by said sulfurcontaining amino acid compatible material, and wherein said mixture is then mixed with meat analog particles containing a destabilizer component

## Description
STABILIZED SULFUR CONTAINING AMINO ACID COMPOSITIONS, THEIR USE IN FORTIFIED FOODSTUFFS AND PROCESSES OF MAKING TIEREOF This invention relates to nutritionally useful, sulfur containing amino acid food additives, methods of making them, and the fortification of foodstuffs with them. There is considerable impetus to satisfy the protein requirement in the diet of man with protein derived exclusively from vegetable sources. There are essentially two reasons which compel human populations to look to vegetable proteins for a substantial, if not an exclusive, source of dietary protein. The paramount reason is one of efficiency. That is, at least in certain parts of the world, it is no longer feasible, from the standpoint of consumption of energy, to grow a crop to feed livestock to obtain required dietary protein. The second reason is best couched in terms of nutrition and health. S1U factured foodstuffs based on vegetable proteins afford the possibility of ultimately achieving a perfect balance of nutrients with controlled exclusion of certain identified detrimental Scents, such as cholesterol.And, there are subsidiary reasons involving the factor of convenience, and, to some, reasons of personal conviction. There appears to be no question as to the capacity to obtain vegetable proteins in sufficient quantity.Success in the agriculture of, for example, the legumes and in particular soy have assured the ready procure ment of vegetable protein in quantity. And this assurance of quantity is, in pat, attributable to the development of associated technologies to exploit and make available this source of native vegetable protein. Now the principal concern is one of quality of that vegetable protein If the vegetable protein is not nutritionally the equivalent of protein derived from animal sources, that is, of comparable quality, the fact that the vegetable protein is obtainable in quantity is of lessened significance. The fact is that proteins derived from a chosen plant species source are not of comparable nutritional quality to animal sources This is evident, in part,. by examination of the amino acid. content, or profile, of a chosen plant protein. Fortification of proteinaceous foodstuffs withr e.g. sulfur containing amino acids, and particularly with respect to methionine, has typically involved direct addition of DL methionine as the free acid. However, attempts. to fortify nethionine deficient foodstuffs with free DI methionine proved unfeasible because of a severely intractable flavor problem. It was discovered that foodstuffs so fortified with DL methionine developed off flavors and became discolored.This effect was particularly noticeable for foodstuffs that were either heatedtprior to eating, or were stored for an indefinite period in a hydrated condition, but the effect was also noticed after dry storage The chemical basis for the generation. of these off flavors and unsightly discolorations was, in part, attributable to the well known .Stre.ckerdegradation or more commonly, the Maillard. reaction chemical browning The Maillard reaction. is particularly distressing when sulfur containing amino acids are involved because of the generation and liberation. of noxious mercaptans and sulfides, e.g methional is freely formed in foodstuffs fortified with methionine.Also, distinct from the Maillard reaction, degradative reactions, such as those involving these sulfurcontaining amino acids, adversely affect flavor. eed less to say, alternate means were sought to alleviate the sulfur amino acid deficiencies in vegetable derived proteins. Some prior art methods are designed to defeat the Maillard reaction in the face of free addition of selected amino acids. Representative diverse means suggested by the prior art are 1 encapsulation of the free amino acid 2 simultaneous incorporation of certain alleged anti browning agents, e.g. pyrocarbonic acid esters, and O carboxy anhydrides of anhydroxy acids U.S. Patent 3,337,348 granted Aug. 22, 1967 and 3 utilization of the plastein reaction. This last mentioned means involves the bonding of the added amino acid by peptide linkage to protein molecules which constitute the bulk of the proteinaceous component of the foodstuff. All of the above listed means are of limited practical utility. Consequently, the prior art continued the search for means in circumvention of theMaillard reaction.Among these means were suggested the utilization of less tasteful derivatives of certain amino acids which were relatively inert to degradation yet nutritionally available on ingestion. For example, some success has been achieved in derivatization of certain sulfur containing amino acids, especially methionine. For example, Ralph AnthonyDamico and Robert Wayne Boggs in U.S. Patent 3,878,305,April 15, 1975, discovered that certain N acyl Lmethionine NALM compounds, exhibit increased stability, attenuated taste characteristics and are nutritionally available. Damico and Boggs in U.S. Patent 3,952,115 achieved additional successes on ester derivations ofN acyl L methionine. The teachings of U.S. Patents 3,878,305 and 3,952,115 are incorporated herein in their entirety, particularly the types of amino acids disclosed therein. NALM and its derivatives were developed to deliver the essential nutrient, methionine, in a more stable and palatable form. Although NALM is considerably more stable than methionine, NALM related off flavors have been detected in aged meat analogs and peanut butters. It is an object of the present invention to reduce or eliminate the undesirable off flavors and the instability of NALM and similar sulfur containing amino acid food additives in certain types of food compos.tions. This and other objects will become apparent in the tight of this disclosure. Summary. of the Invention Better tasting and more stable NALM and related sulfur containing amino acid fortified foodstuffs are provided Improved sulfur containing amino acid fortified foodstuffs, comprising an intimate mixture of Åa sulfur containing amino acid and a shelf stable su2jfur containing amino acid compatible edible material are disclosed. N acetyl L methionine RAI M suspended in a fat or oil and said suspension applied to the surface of dry, texturized meat analog granules are tlso shelf stable examples of the invention. The invention provides improved shelf stable sulfurcontaining amino acid fortified foodstuffs, preferably by selective treatment mixing, suspending, dispersing, coating and or encapsulating of the sulfur containing amino acid and or any foodstuff material containing an amino acid incompatible component. The amino acid is treated with a shelf stable, sulfur containing amino acid compatible edible material, before mixing the sulfur containing amino acid with any incompatible foodstuff material containing a destabilizer compound .The method comprises chemically inactivating potential destabilizing reactions in said fortified foodstuffs by separation. Detailed Description of the Invention A detailed description of the invention is conveniently presented by discussion of two interrelated topics A identification and preparation of preferred sulfur containing amino acid additives and preferred fortified foodstuffs and B the significance of a more stable and better tasting improved NALM fortified foodstuff.Identification and Preparation of the StableImproved NALM Fortified Foodstuffs It was surprisingly discovered that sulfurcontaining amino acids and certain edible materials are compatible and stable upon shelf storage while others were not. A preferred embodiment of the present invention is a sulfur containing amino acid suspended or dispersed in a liquid or softened plastic fat or oil.Such a suspension or dispersion can be spread over the surfaces of foodstuffs, e.g. certain meat analog granules, which contain what is referred to herein as a fooc t tuff containing a sulfur containing amino acid destabilizer or as a foodstuff containing a sulfurcontaining amino acid incompatible component . A destabilizer is a component which reacts with the sulfur containing amino acid to generate volatile sulfur compounds. A key principle of the present invention is selective mixing and protection of the sulfurcontaining amin acid from destabilizer components. Foodstuffs and edible materials which do not contain a destabilizer are shelf stable or compatible when in intimate contact with the sulfur containing amino acids. Some examples of compatibles are edible fats and oils, including but not limited to hardstock emulsifiers and ethyl cellulose fat emulsions, starches, soy protein isolate and gum arabic. It was surprisingly discovered that soy isolate is a shelf stable compatible material, while certain soy concentrates are incompatibles11 because they apparently contain a destabilizer As used herein, the term sulfur containing amino acid is intended to cover all of those acids including their derivatives, salts and esters Preferred acids including their derivatives, salts and or esters are N acyl L methionine, N acyl cystine, N acyl cysteine and mixtures thereof. These preferred acids are disclosed in the two Damico et al. patents, supra.A most preferred class of amino acid material is a cocrystallate comprising an edible salt of said preferred sulfur containing amino acid and an effective amount of a water soluble edible cocrystallizer effective amount of a water soluble edible cocrystallizer material . wherein the N acyl substituent is derived from a fatty acid having from L to 24 carbon atoms, and wherein said edible salt selected from the group consisting of edible alkali and alkaline earth metals, and wherein said cocrystallizer material is selected from the group consisting of alkali and alkaline earth metal salts of halides, phosphates and nitrates, suitable organic acids and their salts, crystalline starches , suitable polyhydric alcohols, crystalline cellulose, crystalline sugars1 flavorous mixtures such as hydrolyzed vegetable proteins hydrolyzed yeast extracts and meat flavors.. The preferred amino acid cocrystallates are prepared by dissolving at least one amino acid material in water along with an effective amount of at least one edible cocrystallizer material. Then the solution is preferably neutralized to form a salt of the amino acid. Generally, an effective amount of cocrystallizer material will be such that the ratio by weight of the amount of cocrystallizer to the amount of edible amino acid salt is from about 0X9 1 to about 6 1. Equal amounts of amino acid and cocrystallizer appear to work best. Of course, the solution is neutralized with an appropriate edible base like NaOH,Ca OH 2, KOH, or the like. The final pH range of the solution can be from 5 to 10 and more preferably from 6 to 8. The mixture of amino acid salt and cocrystal lizer material is then dried using an appropriate technique. Freeze drying is preferred. Sodium chloride, although somewhat hygroscopic itself, is surprisingly a more preferred cocrystallizer material. Monosodium glutamate, tartaric acid, sodium tartrate, sodium valerate and suitable vegetable gums can also be used as cocrystallizer material. Other specific cocrystallizer materials contemplated by this disclosure include sugars, and any like edible material which allows the successful dehydration of the amino acid material to provide a stable dehydrated solid sulfur containing amino acid material. Dry proteinaceous foodstuff materials contem plated by this invention include, among the oil seeds peanut, cottonseed, soybean, safflower, sesame, sun flower, rapeseed and flax meal linseed meal among the milk protein products casein, non fat milk solids, or whey protein among the cereal grains whey gluten wheat, corn, barley, oats, rice, rye, wheat bran, and wheat germ among the plant proteins leaf e.g. alfalfa and coconut among the single cell proteins yeast, and petroleum, methane and carbohydrate feeding inicrobts among the animal proteins collagen gelatin keratin, offal, akdd silk waste. Also contemplated by this invention are manufactured proteinaceous foodstuffs formulated in part from selected proteins from the above representative enumeration. In this respect it is understood that the proteinaceous source material may be fortified directly and thereby provide a nutritionally balanced proteinaceous foodstuff useful either alone or in combination with other ingredients as a manufactured foodstuff or fortification may be effected during formulation of the manufactured proteinaceous foodstuff. Knowing the composition of the proteinaceous foodstuff which it is desired to supplement with the amino acid food additive described herein, and the level which it is desired to supplement the food stuff, a person of ordinary skill in the art will have no difficulty in determining how much of a particular shelf stable sulfur containing amino acid material should be used. In general, it will be found that an amount such as from about 0.1 to about 5 byweight of the protein level of the food to be supplemented will be satisfactory. A preferred range is from about Q.5t to about 2 I 29 by weight of the protein in the foodstuff. Amounts outside these ranges can, however, be used if the desired supple mentation can thereby be achieved. The examples herein of stabilized sulfurcontaining amino acid additives andZcr stabilized proteinaceous foodstuffs fortified with sulfurcontaining amino acids are given to indicate and highLight preferred products contemplated in the instant invention. Some of the following example. were subjected to a Rapid Aging Test.Description of Rapid Aging Test 1. A sample is placed in a headspace flask and the flask sealed. 2. The sealed flask is placed in an oil bath maintained at 900C for 16 hours. 3. The flask is cooled to room temperature, 30 ml. of water added and the flask placed in an oil bath maintained at 450C for 15 minutçss 4. The headspace was analyzed using a modified version of the procedure described hy von Sydow, EX, Anderson, J., Anjou, K., Karisson, G., Land, D. andGriffiths, N., Lebensia., Wiss. u. Technol., Vol. 3 1970 , 11 12. The headspace sample was transferred from the headspace flask to the cold trap by passing nitrogen over the sample contained in the flask at a flow rate of 50 ml min. The sweep time was varied depending on the size of the sample desired for analysis and is defined for each table. EXA1PLE 1Sodium NALM, NaCl Cocrystallate Suspended inMelted Fat and Applied to the Surface of Extrudate Two grams of NaCl and 0.5 g of N acetyl Lmethionine NALD1 were dissolved in 30 ml of water and the pH of the solution brought to 6.75 by the addition of O .lN NaOH. The resulting solution was freeze dried. wight tenths of a gram of the resulting freeze dried cocrystallate was added to 4 g of melted fat in a test tube immersed in a silicone bath maintained at 80 C.A fine stream of nitrogen was bubbled through the melted fat in order to suspena the sodium NALM NaCl cocrystallate One and two tenths grams of the suspension were applied to the surface of 3.75 g of freeze dried soy based meat analog extrudate using a transfer pipet. The resulting sample was used insthe rapid aging test and proved to be a shelf stable sulfurcontaining fortified foodstuff. See Table 1,Sample 1. EXAMPLE 2NALM, Melted Fat, Applied to the Surface of Extrudate Three hundred and thirty nine mg of finely groundNALM were added to 10 g of melted fat mix in a test tube immersed in a silicone oil bath maintained at 650C.Suspension af the NALM was achieved by bubbling a fine stream of nitrogen through the melted fat One and three tenths grams of the suspension were applied to the surface of 3.75 g of freeze dried soy based meat analog extrudate using a transfer pipes. The resulting sample was subjected to the rapid aging test. This sample showed improved shelf stability over similar prior art amino acid fortified foodstuffs.SeeTable I, Sample 2 The rapid aging test results of the products of Samples 3 5, 7 and 8 illustrate what kind of things happen when an unstabilized sulfur containing amino acid material is intimately mixed with a destabilizer containing foodstuff materia . EXAMPLE 3Aqueous NALM, Extrudate freeze dried NALM 0.113 g was dissolved in 30 ml of water and the solution added to 15 g of soy based meat analog extrudate containing 25 water contained in a plastic dish. The extrudate was stirred until nearly all of the solution was absorbed and then freeze dried. The freeze dried sample was ground with a mortar and pestle and 3.75 g were subjected to the rapid aging test. The results showed incompatibility. See Table 1, Sample 3. EXAMPLE 4Aqueous Sodium NALM,Extrudate freeze dried IQAItI 0.113 g was dissolved in 15 ml of water and the pH of the solution brought to 6.75 by the addition of 0.lN sodium hydroxide solution. The solution was diluted to 30 ml and added to 15 g of soy based meat analog extrudate containing 25 H20 The extrudate was stirred until nearly all of the solution was absorbed. After freeze drying, the sample was ground with a mortar and pestle, and 3.9 g of the round sample was used in the rapid aging test.See Table I, Sample 4. EXAMPLE 5Aqueous Sodium t4ALM, Nay1, Extrudate freeze dried One hundred and thirteen mg of NALM and 0.4 g of NaCI were dissolved in 15 ml of water. The pH of the solution was brought to 6.75 by the addition of O.1N sodium hydroxide, diluted to 30 ml and added to 15 g of soy based meat analog extrudate containing 25 water . The extrudate was stirred until nearly all of the solution was absorbed, then freeze dried. The freeze dried sample was ground with a mortar and pestle and a 3.9 g of the ground sample was used in the rapid aging test. See Table I, Sample 5. EXAMPLE 6Sodium NALM NaCl cocrystallate Extrudate dry ingredients ground together Three and seventy five hundredths g of freezedried soy based meat analog extrudate and 0.193 g of a freeze dried mixture of sodium NALM and MaCl 1 4 sodium NADI NaCl were ground together in a mortar and pestle. The test results shown in. Table I,Sample 6, show an improved shelf stable fortified foodstuff. EXAMPLE 7 NALM, Extrudate dry ingredients ground together Thirty eight mg of NALM and 3.75 of freeze dried extrudate were ground together with a mortar and pestle. The resulting sample was used in the rapid aging test. See Table I, Sample 7. EXAMPLE 8Peanut Butter NALM Fifteen g of peanut butter were heated at 90 C, 38 mg of NALM added, the mixture stirred with a magnetic stirrer and subjected to the rapid aging test. See Table I, Sample 8. EXAMPLE 9Peanut Butter Sodium NALM NaCl cocrystall.ate The experiment described in 8 above was repeated substituting 0.199 gof a sodium NALM NaCl mixture 1 4 ratio for the NALM. The test results shown inTable I for Sample 9 illustrate an improved shelf stable fortified foodstuff relative to Sample 8. TABLE I GENERATION OF VOLATILE SULFUR COMPOUNDS IN THE RAPID AGING TEST 900C, 16 hours Volatile Sulfur Compounds Formed in Headspace Samples Subjected Hydrogen Methyl Dimethyl Dimethyl to Rapid Aging Test Sulfide Mercaptan Sulfide Sulfide Peak area measurements3 sulfur detector response x 10 1 Sodium NALM,NaCl cocrystallate, melted fat, applied 0 0 2 0 to the surface of extrudate 2 NALM, melted fat, 21 1 105 81 applied to the surface of extrudate 3 Aqueous solution 0 0 285 1 of NALM, added to extrudate, then freeze dried 4 Aqueous solution 11 0 584 45 of sodium NALM added to extrudate then freeze dried 5 Aqueous solution . 35 0 850 25 of sodium NALM, NaCl, added to extrudate, then freeze dried 6 Sodium NALM NaCl 14 4 33 33 cocrystallate extrudate dry in gredients ground together 7 NALM, extrudate R O 75 143 824 dry ingredients ground together 8 Peanut butter 247 427 410 5 NALM 9 Peanut butter 0 17 150 0 sodium NALM NaCl cocrystallate A sweep ti.llle of 5 minutes 5U ml N2 minute was used to collect tile headspace for analysis. Sodium NALM NaCL cocrystallate suspended in melted fat and applied to the surface of dry extrudate is stable in a rapid aging test Table I, Sample 1 . The stability of NALM suspended in melted fat is also improved Sample 2 . The superior stability of the low hygroscopic Na NALM NaCI cocrystallate melted fat applied to dry meat analog extrudate as compared to comparable amounts of an aqueous NALM additive applied to meat analog alone or in a melted fat, is demonstrated by these data. The fat. coated sodium chloride sodium salt of NALM cocrystallate is therefore most preferred Sample 1 vs. Samples 3, 4, 5 Decomposition is pronounced when aqueous solutions of NALM, sodium NALM, or sodium NALM plus NaCl are intimately mixed with extrudate, freeze dried and subjected to the rapid aging test Table I, Samples 3, 4 and 5 . Although some decomposition occurs when a sodium NALM NaC1 cocrystallate is dry mixed ground with extrudate and. subjected to the rapid aging test, this composition is much more stable than a dry mix of free NALM extrudate mixture. However, the difference in the quantity of volatile sulfur compounds may be due in part to a difference in the degree to which the two samples. were ground. Decomposition is pronounced when a peanut butter composition containing NALS is subjected to a rapid aging test. Considerably less decomposition occurs when the same peanut butter composition containing sodium NALM NaCl cocrystallate is used Table I,Samples 8 and 9, respectively . Peanut butter apparently contains some destabilizers which are manifested under the rapid aging test conditions described below Examples SQ 16 and Table II show procedure and data, respectively, which further demonstrate the significance of the present invention in the context of a stabilized encapsulated sulfur containing amino acid mix with a soy protein based meat analog extrudatc. Examples 10, 11, 12, 13, 14 and 15 relate to encapsulated NALM. Khe material used in these examples comprise 18.06 of an amino acid blend and 81.94 of the encapsulating material The amino acid blend consisted of 53 parts L lysine hydrochloride, 28 partsNALM and 19 parts L threonine. These materials were made by mixing the amino acids in an aqueous solution and spray drying. The material was spray dried using an air inlet temperature of 3100F, a nozzle type 28 60, and a pressure of 2500 pisa, EXAMPLE 10NALM Encapsulated in Starch Seventy five hundredths 0.75 of a gram of a commercially encapsulated NALM was subjected to the rapid aging test. Starch was the encapsulating agent and NALM comprised 5 of the encapsulated material.See Table II, Sample 10. EXAMPLE 11NALM encapsulated in starch mixed with ground, freeze dried extrudate Three and seventy five hundredths 3.75 grams of freeze dried soy based meat analog extrudate were ground with a mortar and pestle. The sample was transferred to a screw capped vial, 0.75 g. of starch encapsulated NALM added and the vial. shaken until the sample was thoroughly mixed. The sample was then subjected to the rapid aging test. No dimethyl sulfide was detected in the headspace upon analysis. See Table II, Sample 11. EXAMPLE 12NALM encapsulated in starch and mixed with freeze dried extrudate coated with fat Three and seventy five hundredths 3.75 grams of freeze dried soy based meat analog extrudate were ground with a mortar and pestle and then transferred to a small screw capped bottleOne gram of a melted, partially hydrogenated vegetable oil was added and the vial shaken until the sample was thoroughly mixed. Seventy five hundredths gram of starch encapsulated NALM was added and the sample again shaken until thoroughly mixed. The sample was then subjected to the rapid aging test. The excellent results are shown inTable II, Sample 12 . Only 0.4 x 103 units of dimethyl sulfide were measured on the Sulfur Detector EXAMPLE 13NALM encapsulated in gum arabic Sart as Example 10 but with gum arabic instead of starch as the encapsulating agent. Only 12 x 103 detector units of dimethyl sulfide were measured.See Table II, Sample 13. EXAMPLE 14NALM encapsulated in gum arabic and mixed with ground, freeze dried extrudate Same as in Example 11 but with NALM encapsulated in gum arabic rather than starch.See Table II, Sample 14. EXAMPLE 15 NALM encapsulated in gum arabic and mixed with ground, freeze dried extrudate coated with fat Same as Example lZ but using NALM encapsulated in gum arabic rather than in starch. See Table II, Sample 15. EXAMPLE 16NALM mixed with ground, freeze dried extrudate coated iith fat Three and seventy five hundredths 3.75 grams of freeze dried soy based meat analog extrudate were ground with a mortar and pestle and then transferred to a small, screw capped bottle. One gram of a melted, partially hydrogenated vegetable oil was added and the vial shaken until the sample was thoroughly mixed. Thirtyeight milligrams 38 of NALM were added. and the sample again shaken until thoroughly mixed. The sample was then subjected to the rapid aging test. The results show that coating the meat analog extrudate with the oil was not sufficiently effective to protect the NALM from partial decomposition. Table II, Sample 16 TABLE II GENERATION OF VOLATILE SULFUR COMPOUNDS IN THE RAPID AGING TEST 90 C., 16 hours Volatile Sulfur Compounds Formed in Headspace Dimethyl Sulfide Samples Subjected Peak Area Measurements 3 to Rapid Aging Test Sulfur Detector Response x 103 10 NALM encapsulated 0 in. starch 11 NALM encapsulated in 0 starch mixed with ground freeze dried extrudate 12 NALM encapsulated in starch and mixed with 9.4 freeze dried extrudate coated with fat 13 NALM encapsulated . 12. in gum arabic 14 NALM encapsulated in 0.4 gum arabic and mixed with ground, freeze dried extrudate 15 NALM encapsulated in 3 gum arabic and mixed with ground, freeze dried extrudate coated with fat 16 NALM mixed with 114 aground, freeze dried extrudate coated with fat A sweep time of 5 minutes 50 ml of N2 minute was used to collect the headspace for analysis. E mtPLE 17Tristearin added to freeze dried extrudate containing NALM NALM 0.113 g was dissolved in 30 ml of water and the solution added to 11.25 g of dry soy based meat analog extrudate contained in a plastic dish. The extrudate was stirred until nearly all of the solution was absorbed and then freeze dried Three grams of melted tristearin were applied to the surface of the freeze dried extrudate. The sample was then subj ected to a rapid aging test at 600C. See Table III, Sample 17. EXAMPLE 18NALM suspended in tristearin and added tc freeze dried extrudate Three hundred and thirty nine 339 mg. of finely ground tULLS were added to 9 g. of melted tristearin in a test tube immersed in a silicone oil bath maintained at 900C. Suspension of the NAIM was achieved by bubbling a fine stream of nitrogen through the melted tristearin. Three and one tenth 3.1 grams of the suspension were dripped on the surface of 11.25 g. of freeze dried soy based meat analog extrudate using a transfer pipet.The resulting sample was subjected to a rapid aging test at 60 C. See Table III, Sample 18. ThiS is a preferred embodiment of the present invention. Exampie 18 demonstrates the stabilizing effect of coating NALM with tristearin prior to mixing with soy protein based meat analog extrudate granules. TABLE III GENERATION OF VOLATILE SULFUR COINPOUNDS IN THE RAPID AGING TEST 6O0C, 16 hours Volatile Sulfur Compounds Formed in Headspace Dimethyl Sulfide Samples Subjected Peak Area Measurements 3 to Rapid Aging Test Sulfur Detector Response x 10 17 Tristearin added to 159 freeze dried extrudate containing NALM 18 NALkI suspended in O trsteari and added to freeze dried extrudate A sweep time of 15 minutes 50 ml of N2 snnute was used to collect the headspace for analysis. Each sample contained 113 mg of NALM. EXAMPLE 19Crystalline NALM One hundred and thirteen 113 milligrams ofNALM were subjected to the rapid aging test The results Table IV, Sample 19 show that crystallineNALM itself is shelf stable. EXAMPLE 20Meat Analog Granules with 0.75 NALM Eleven and twenty ive hundredths 11.25 grams of a dry soy based meat analog containing 0.7590 free NALM dry basis were subjected to a rapid aging test. A substantial amount of dimethyl sulfide 780 x 103 detector units was generated.See Table IV, Sample 20. EXAMPLE 21 eat Analog Extrudate Eleven and twenty five hundredths 11.25 grams of a dry soy based meat analog extrudate were subjected to a, rapid aging test Sample 21, Table IV .Compared with the product of Example 20 Sample 20 inTable IV , very little dimethyl sulfide is generated from this analog sample. EXAMPLE 22Meat Analog Extrudate NALM Same as Example 3 but used 11.25 g. of dry sample in test rather than 3.75 g. See Table IV,Sample 22. Ex4PT.E 23 Promosoy 100 Soy Concentrate Fifteen grams of Promosoy 100, a soy concentrate, were mixed with 50 ml. of water and freeze dried. The freeze dried sample was then subjected to the rapid aging test. This sample, Promosoy 100, comprises about 60 70 protein. Very little dimethyl sufide was detected. Table IV, Sample 23 . EXAMPLE 24 Promosoy 100 NALM One hundred and thirteen 113 milligrams of NALM were dissolved in 50 ml. of water and added to 15g. of Promosoy 100. After thorough mixing the sample was freeze dried. The freeze dried sample was subjected to the rapid aging test. A substantial amount of dimethyl sulfide was generated 1000 x 103 detector units . EXAMPLE 25 Supro 620T Soy Isolate NALM One hundred and thirteen 113 milligrams of NALM were dissolved in 40 ml. of water. The solution was added to 8 g. of Supro 620T a commercially available soy isolate , mixed well and freeze dried. Two and sixty sevè hundredths 2.67 g. of the freeze dried material was subjected to the rapid aging test. Almost no dimethyl sulfide was detected. Table IV, Sample 25 . EXAMPLE 26Protein Rich Soy Concentrate Thirty three and seventy five hundredths 33.75 grams of a protein rich soy concentrate containing 87 protein were thoroughly wet with 90 ml. of water containing Cup339 g. of NALM. The sample was freezedried. Eleven and twenty five hundredths 11.25 grams of the freeze dried sample was subjected to the rapid aging test. Very little dimethyl sulfide was detected. Table IV, Sample 26 . EXAMPLE 27Carbohydrate Rich Soy Protein Four and one half grams of a fat free soy protein fraction containing 41 protein and rich in carbohydrates were thoroughly wet with 10 ml. of water containing 0.226 g. of NALM and then freeze dried.Eight tenths of a gram of the freeze dried sample was subjected to the rapid aging test. Unlike Samples 25 and 26, which were made with soy isolate and protein rich soy concentrate, significant amounts of dimethyl sulfide were detected. Table IV, Sample 27 EXAMPLE 28Soy Based Meat Analog GranulesStored at lOOoF for 3 Months 0.75 NALM An aqueous solution of NALM was added to a soy based meat analog and the resulting mix was air dried in a hot air dryer. The analog, containing 0075t NAIM dry basis , was stored in a sealed pouch at LQOoF for three months. Fifteen grams of sample were transferred to a headspace flask, 30 ml. of water added and the headspace analyzed.Substantial amounts of dimethyl sulfide were detected in the head space Table IV, Sample 28 . Substantial off flavor was also detected in the aged samples. The character of the off flavor was similar to that of dimethyl sulfide. TABLE IV GENERATION OF VOLATILE SULFUR COMPOUNDS IN THE RAPID AGING TEST 900C, 16 hours Volatile Sulfur Compounds Formed in Headspace Dimethyl Sulfide Samples Subjected Peak Area Measurements 3 to Rapid Aging Test Sulfur Detector Response x 10 19 Crystalline NALM 0 20 Meat Analog Granules 780 with 0.75 NALM 21 Meat Analog Extrudate 34 22 Meat Analog Extrudate 1,700 NALM 23 Promosoy 100 3 soy concentrate 24 Promosoy 100 NALM 1,000 25 Supro 620T soy 1 isolate NALM 26 Protein Rich Soy . 4 Concentrate 87 protein 27 Carbohydrate Rich Soy 500 Concentrate 41 protein 28 Soy Based Meat Analog 1,300 stored at 1000F for 3 months contained 0.75 NALM A sweep time of 15 minutes 50 ml. of N2 min. was used to collect the headspace for analysis in Examples 19, 24 and 28. A sweep time of 5 minutes was used in Examples 25 27. Data included for comparison purposes. Examples 25 and 26, which correspond to Samples 25 and 26 in Table IV, further highlight the stabilizing benefits of the selective treatment mixing of a sulfurcontaining amino acid NALM with foodstuffs which do not contain a 11destabilizer . Separation of the NALM from the extrudate may also be accomplished by adding the NALM to the extrudate as a stabilized gel. Such a stabilized fat composition may be formed in the following manner EXAMPLE 29 70 90 parts of liquid soybean oil i.v. 107 is added to 10 parts ethyl cellulose having about 2.58 ethoxyl groups glucose unit and a viscosity designation of 45 cps. The resulting mixture is heated with stirring at a temperature of 200at until the ethyl cellulose is completely dispersed. The mixture is then allowed to cool to 800C, 10 parts of finely ground NALM added and the mixture stirred and cooled to room temperature 25 C . On cooling, a stabilized fat gel is formed.The stabilized fat gel is chopped into pieces having a particle size of from about 2 to 10 mm. An appropriate amount of this material is then mixed with the analog. EXAMPLE 30 A further method of preventing interaction ofNALM with a meat analog is to use it in a water insoluble form, e.g. as the calcium salt. Thus, 371 mgs. of the calcium salt of NALM is suspended in 45 ml of water and added to 15 g of meat analog extrudate. The extru date is stirred until nearly all of the water is absorbed.The product is then freeze dried. EXAMpLE 31 Another method of preventing interaction of NALM with an analog product is to add it to the analog as a water in oil emulsion. This can be done as follows a Twenty five g of vegetable oil, 2.5 g of hardstock and 22.5 g of hardened coconut oil is mixed and heated at 1500F until a clear solution results b Dissolve 0.75 g of sodium alginate and 7.5 g of NALM in 42 ml of water shear mixing and heat llQ F can be used to speed solution c Cool the oil phase to its cloud point d Add the aqueous phase to the oil phase gradually while mixing at moderate to high shear rates and while cooling the oil phase e After complete addition of the aqueous phase, continue mixing and cooling until a plastic mass forms at approximately 80OF . An appropriate quantity of this plastic fat can then be mixed with dry analog granules.