# Tyrosine derivatives, a process for preparing the same and a pharmaceutical composition containing the same for treating hypertension.

## Abstract
Tyrosine derivatives having the formula

## Claims
EMI13.1 1. Compounds having the formula a EMI13.2 wherein A is H, C2 C4 alkanoyl, benzoyl, substituted benzoyl, phen C2 C4alkanoyl or substituted phen C2 C4 alkanoyl, R1 is H, C1 C4alkyl, phenyl, substituted phenyl, pben C1 C4 alkyl, substituted phen C1 C4 alkyl and substituted or unsubstituted heteroaryl group having 5 6 ring members and 1 3 hetero atoms selected from 0, N and S, X is O or S andR2 is an acyl radical of the formulaEMI13.3 wherein R3 is C1 C17 alkyl, phenyl, substituted phenyl, phen C1 C4 alkyl, substituted phen C1 C4 alkyl, heteroaryl having 5 6 ring members and 1 3 hetero atoms selected from 0, S and N or said heteroaryl C1 C4 alkyl, b the compound of Formula I wherein A is H, c the compound of Formula I wherein A is H and having the D isomer configuration, or d the compound of Formula I wherein A is H and having the L isomer configuration. 2. The compounds of Claim 1, general FormulaI i having the specific formula EMI14.1 ii the compounds of Formula III wherein X is S, iii the compounds of Formula III wherein X is O, iv the compounds of Formula III wherein A is H and X is O v the compounds of Formula III wherein R3 is alkyl, A is H, and X is O or vi the compounds of Formula III wherein R3 is C CH3 3, A is H, and X is O. 3. The compounds of Claim 1, Formula I having the specific formula A EMI14.2 and R1 is H or CH3, B the compounds of Formula IV wherein P1 is CH3, C the compounas of Formula IV having theD isomer configuration, D the compounds of Formula IV having theL isomer configuration, E the compound of Formula IV wherein R1 isCH3 and having the D isomer configuration or F the compound of Formula IV wherein R1 isCH3 and having the L isomer configuration. 4. A pharmaceutical composition for treating hypertension in human beings containing an effective amount of a compound of Claim la . 5. A process for preparing compounds of the formula EMI15.1 wherein A is H, C2 C4 alkanoyl, benzoyl, substituted benzoyl, phen C2 C4alkanoyl or substituted phen C2 C4 alkanoyl, R1 is H, C1 C4alkyl, phenyl, substituted phenyl, phen C1 C4 alkyl, substituted phen C1 C 4 alkyl and substituted or unsubstituted neteroaryl group having 5 6 ring members and 1 3 hetero atoms selected from 0, N and S, X is O or S andR2 is an acyl radical of the formulaEMI16.1 wherein R3 is C1 C17 alkyl, phenyl, C R3 substituted phenyl, phen C1 C4 alkyl, substituted phen C1 C4 alkyl, heteroaryl having 5 6 ring members and 1 3 hetero atoms selected from 0, S and N or said heteroaryl C1 C4 alkyl, which comprises a coupling of a compound of the formulaEMI16.2 with a compound of the formulaEMI16.3 wherein Y is COOH or COOM where M is alkali metal, Z is a halogen or a substituted SO3 group and R4 is an amino protecting group, to obtain a compound of the formula EMI16.4 b removing the R4 protecting group from the FormulaV compound to obtain the formula I compound. Claim for Austria A process for preparing compounds of the formula EMI18.1 wherein A is H, C2 C4 alkanoyl, benzoyl, substituted benzoyl, phen C2 C4alkanoyl or substituted phen C2 C4 alkanoyl, R1 is H, C1 C4alkyl, phenyl, substituted phenyl, phen C1 C4 alkyl, substituted phen C1 C4 alk yl and substituted or unsubstituted heteroaryl group having 5 6 ring members and 1 3 hetero atoms selected from 0, N and S, X is O or S and R2 is an acyl radical of the formulaEMI18.2 wherein R3 is C1 C17 alkyl, phenyl, substituted phenyl, phen C1 C4 alkyl, substituted phen C1 C4 alkyl, heteroaryl having 5 6 ring members and 1 3 hetero atoms selected from 0, S and N or said beteroaryl C1 C4 alkyl, which comprises a coupling of a compound of the formulaEMI19.1 with a compound of the formulaEMI19.2 wherein Y is COOH or COOM where M is alkali metal, Z is a halogen or a substituted SO3 group and R4 is an amino protecting group, ta obtain a compound of the formula EMI19.3 b removing the R4 protecting group from the FormulaV compound to obtain the formula I compound.

## Description
Title TYROSINE DERIVATIVES, A PROCESS FOR PREPARINGTHE SAME AND A PHARMACEUTICAL COMPOSITIONCONTAINING THE SAME FOR TREATING HYPERTENSIONBackground of the Invention The present invention concerns certain derivatives of tyrosine and their use as pharmaceuticals especially as antihypertensive agents. Tyrosine is an a amino acid represented the formulaEMI1.1 where OH may be in the para position p tyrosine meta position m tyrosine or the ortho position o tyrosine .The L isomer of p tyrosine or its methyl ester when injected interperitoneally caused a reduction in blood pressure in test animals rats Sved et al., Proc. Natl. Acad.Sci. 76, 3511 3514, July, 1979 Shalita et al.,Experientia 33, 1430 1431 1974 . L p tyrosine, when fed orally to spontaneously hypertensive SH rats, was reported to cause a slight but non continuing reduction in blood pressure Osumi et al., Japan J. Pharmacol. 24, 715 720 1974 . m tyrosine has antihypertensive activity in combination with a hydrazino decarboxylose inhibitor U.S. 3,839,585 . Tyrosine derivatives have been discovered which are useful as hypertensive agents, particularly when orally administered.Summary of the Invention Tyrosine derivatives of the formulaEMI2.1 and use as pharmaceuticals.Description of the Preferred Embodiments An embodiment of the present invention is compounds of the formulaEMI2.2 and pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof wherein A is H, C2 C4 alkanoyl, phen C2 C4 alkanoyl,sub stituted phen C2 C4 alkanoyl, benzoy or sub stituted benzoyl, R1 is H, C1 C3alkyl, phenyl, substituted phenyl, phen C1 C 4 alkyl, substituted phen C1 C4 alkyl and substituted or unsubstituted heteroaryl group having 5 6 ring members and 1 3 hetero atoms selected from 0, N and S, X is O or S, preferably 0, andR2 is an acyl radical of the formulaEMI2.3 whereinR3 is C1 C17alkyl, phenyl, substituted phenyl, phen C1 C4 alkyl, heteroaryl having 5 6 ring members and 1 3 hetero atoms selected from O, S and N or said heteroaryl C1 C4 alkyl. The pharmaceutically acceptable salts of the formula I compounds are the salt with appropriate and generally art recognized organic or inorganic acids.Suitable organic acids are the carboxylic acids exemplified by acetic acid, oxalic acid, pamoic acid, pivalic acid, fumaric acid, lauric acid, maleic acid, hexanoic acid, citric acid, and the like and noncarboxylic acids such as isethionic acid, methanesulfonic acid and the like. The inorganic acids include the hydrohalides such as HC1, HBr and HI, phosphoric acid, sulfuric acid and the like. The compound of formula I has a first chiral center at the NH2 bearing carbon atom and a second chiral center is possible at the CH position when theR1 substituent is other than H. Thus, there are four possible stereoisomeric configurations of the formula I compound. The symbols used to designate the isomeric configurations are L and D, 1 and d, and and R and S or combinations thereof. Where no isomer designation is indicated for a formula or a named compound all the individual isomers, mixtures thereof and racemates are included. Where a designation is given e.g. S , R , L or D, it refers to the configuration at the first chiral center only. The A substituent may be H, C2 C4 alkanoyl such as, acetyl or butanoyl, benzoyl, phen C CA alkanoyl such asEMI3.1 substituted benzoyl or substituted phen C1 C4 alkanoyl wherein the substituents are C1 C4 alkyl, C1 C4 alkoxy, or halo the substituted phen Cl C alknaoyl or benzoyl groups being illustrated by EMI3.2 p butylphenylEMI4.1 and the like, the mono substituted phenyl moiety being preferred. H is a more preferred definition of A. The R1 group includes H, C1 C4alkyl such as methyl, isopropyl, butyl and the like phenyl substituted phenyl wherein the substituents are halo, C1 C4 alkoxy or C1 C4alkyl such as 2, 6 dibromophenyl, p chlorophenyl, butoxyphenyl, 3,5 dimethylphenyl, isopropylphenyl, p tolyl, p chloro o tolyl and the like, with the monosubstituted phenyl moiety being preferred substituted phenyl moiety and phen C1 C4 moieties are defined as above and substituted or unsubstituted heteroaryl groups having 5 6 ring atoms containing 1 3 hetero atoms selected from O,S and N, said substituents being the same as those listed above for the phenyl moiety.Illustrative of the heteroaryl groups are pyridinyl, pyrazinyl, pyrimidinyl, pyridazinyl, 1,2,4 oxadiazolyl, 1,3,4 thiadiazolyl, oxazolyl, thiazolyl, Cl pyridyl, isooxazolyl, isothiazolyl, imidiazolyl, thriazolyl, thienyl, furyl, picolyl and the like. R2 is an acyl radicalEMI4.2 wherein R3 is as defined above. Illustrative of suitable R3 groups isCH3, hexyl, t butyl, heptadecyl, l methylpropyl, isopropyl, t butyl and the like, phenyl, p chlorophenyl, 2,4dimethoxyphenyl, xylyl, isopropylphenyl, 2 bromo 4ethoxyphenyl and the like, imidazolyl, pyridyl, pyrazinyl, 1,3,4 thiadiazolyl, furyl, thienyl, oxazolyl, picolyl, thiazolyl and the like. Compounds of the formulaEMI4.3 EMI5.1 are preferred. Another preferred group of compounds are those of Formula II or III when A is H, and especially where X is O. A more preferred group of compounds has the formulaEMI5.2 wherein R1 is H or C1 C3alkyl, phenyl and monosubstituted phenyl, and R3 is C1 C7alkyl, phenyl, monosubstituted phenyl, pnen C1 C4alkyl and monosubstituted phen C1 C4 alkyl, heteroaryl having 5 6 ring members selected from pyrazinyl, pyridyl, thienyl, furyl, pyridazinyl, thiazolyl, imidazolyl, 1,3,4 thiadiazolyl and picolyl. Particularly preferred compounds have the formulaEMI5.3 where R1 is H or CH3 and R3 is C1 C4alkyl, phenyl, monosubstituted phenyl, benzyl, monosubstitutedbenzyl, pyridyl, imidazolyl, picolyl or pyrazinyl. Especially preferred compounds have the formulaEMI6.1 wherein R1 is H or CH3 and R3 is C1 C4alkyl. Compounds of the formula VI wherein R1 is CH3 are particularly preferred. The compounds of formula I are useful for treating hypertension in human hypertensive patients when administered orally or parenterally. Oral administration is preferred. The daily dosage range may be varied as required. Useful daily dosage ranges are from about 50 mg. to about 3000 mg, preferably from about 250 mg to about 2000 mg. and more preferably from about 250 mg. to about 1500 mg. For parenteral administration, appropriate dosage forms are exemplified by solutions, elixirs, dispersions and emulsions. For oral administration, suitable dosage forms are liquid e.g. solutions, emulsions, dispersions etc., as well as solid e.g. tablets, capsules, troches and the like. The various dosage forms are prepared using conventional compounding procedures and ingredients, when necessary, such as diluents, carriers, and the like. Compounds of the present invention may be prepared by any convenient process. One such process is illustrated by the following set of equations EMI7.1 Compound 1 may have A as H or one of the other acyl groups defined above X is O or S. The R4 group on the amino function is a blocking or protecting group and functions to protect the amino group from reacting in the reaction sequence. Any conventional N blocking group may be used. Suitable groups are illustrated by carbobenzyloxy, p methoxy carbobenzyloxy, trifluroacetyl, t butoxycarbonyl and the like. The group Y in intermediate 1 may be COOH, or COOM where Mis an alkali metal. Z in intermediate 2 is halogen e.g. C1 Br, especially C1, or a substituted SO3 group, such asEMI7.2 nitrophenylsulfonyl and the like. The coupling reaction of 1 and 2 is carried out using conventional reaction conditions to obtain the intermediate 3. Intermediate 3 is then appropriately deblocked to remove the R4 protecting group to yield product 4. The product 4 may be resolved into its isomers, if desired, by conventional means. In a more preferred embodiment of the reaction sequence illustrated above, A is H and Y is halo, preferably C1. Coupling esterification processes are illustrated in U.S. 3,983,138 and British Pat. 1,548,715, said teachings being incorporated herein by reference as necessary. Intermediates of formula 2 where Z is halo may be prepared as illustrated by the following reaction equationsEMI8.1 This preparation involves reacting a suitable aldehyde or thioaldehyde 5 with a haloacyl compound 6 in fused Zinc12 under appropriate conditions. The following Examples illustrate the preparation of representative compounds of the present invention. EXAMPLE 1 A. 1 2, 2 Dimethyl l oxopropoxy ethyl S a phenylmethoxycarbonyl amino tyrosinate To a solution of S Q phenylmethoxycarbonyl amino tyrosine 9.4 g, 0.03 mol in dry DMF 50 ml was addedjunder NEt3N 4.2 ml., 0.03 ml. followed by a chloroethylpivalate. After stirring at 950C for 6 hours, the reaction mixture was poured into H2O and the product extracted with EtOAc 3X . The organic layer was washed with saturated aq. NaHCO3, saturated aq. NaCl, dried filtered and concentrated to dryness.The residue was chromatographed on silica gel and the product eluted with CHCl3 to yield 6.4 g 59 of 1 2,2 dimethyl 1 oxopropoxy ethyl S alpha phenylmethoxycarbonyl amino tyrosinate. B. l 2,2 Dimethyl l oxopropoxy ethyl S tyrosinate hydrochloride hemihydrate A suspension of l 2,2 dimethyl l oxopropoxy ethyl S alpha phenylmethoxycarbonyl amino tyrosinate 6.4 g, 0.014 mol in CH3OH 35 ml , EtOH 35 ml and 8.85 N HC1 EtOH 1.7ml was hydrogenated with 10 Pd C catalyst 2 g at an initial pressure of 47 psi for 6 hours. After removing catalyst by filtration, the solvents were removed under reduced pressure. The residue was covered with EtOAc Et2O and stirred at room temperature to yield 3.4 g 67 of l 2,2 dimethyl 1 oxopropoxy ethyl S tyrosinate hydrochloride hemihydrate m.p. 145 158 C. EXAMPLE 2 1 2,2 Dimethyl l oxopropoxy methyl S tyrosinate hydrochloride The preparation of l 2,2 dimethyl l oxopropoxy methyl S tyrosinate hydrochloride was similar to the synthesis of l 2,2 dimethyl l oxopropoxy ethyl S tyrosinate hydrochloride but using chloromethylpivalate in place of a chlaroethylpivalate yield of l 2,2 dimethyll oxopropoxy methyl S tyrosinate hydrochloride was 76 J M.P. 135 1400C. The next example illustrates an intermediate preparation. EXAMPLE 3 Preparation of a Chloroethylpivalate Zinc chloride, 400 mg., was fused at 0.2 0.5 mm pressure and cooled to 25 30 0C. under nitrogen. Pivaloyl chloride, 48 g. 0.40 mole was added to the fused zinc chloride followed by acetaldehyde, 19.2 g. 0.44 mole .During addition of the acetaldehyde, which was done as rapidly as possible, the reaction mixture was stirred and cooled to prevent loss of acetaldehyde due to the exothermic nature of the reaction. After heating at reflux for 1 hour, distillation gave 36 g. 55 of a chloroethylpivalate, b.p. 32 34OC. at 4 mm. Other compounds, which may be prepared using the processes described herein or available in the art, are tabulated below. Claims to the invention follow the table. TABLE 1 EMI11.1 COMPOUNDS SEP OF SEP FORMULA tb AO SEP CH2 COO CH X R3 tb Example SEP R1 SEP X SEP R3 SEP A tb 4 SEP H SEP 0 SEP CH3 SEP H tb 5 SEP C3H7 SEP 0 SEP C17H35 SEP H tb 6 SEP C2H5 SEP 0 SEP C7H15 SEP H tb 7 SEP C6H5 SEP 0 SEP C CH3 3 SEP H tb 8 SEP Cl C6H4 SEP 0 SEP C6H5 SEP H tb 9 SEP CH3 SEP 0 SEP CH3 SEP H tb 10 SEP xylyl SEP 0 SEP C4H9 O C6H4 SEP H tb 11 SEP CH3 O C6H4 SEP 0 SEP C6H5 CH2 SEP C6H5 CH2 12 SEP C2H5 C6H4 CH2 2 SEP 0 SEP Cl C6H4 CH2 SEP CH3 13 SEP 2 pyridyl SEP 0 SEP CH3O C6H4 CH2 4 SEP CH3 CH2 2 14 SEP 2 imidazolyl SEP 0 SEP xylyl SEP Cl C6H4 15 SEP 2 thiazolyl SEP 0 SEP imidazolyl CH2 SEP 2,6 diCH3 C6H3 CH2 16 SEP 1,3,4 thiadiazolyl SEP 0 SEP 3 pyridyl SEP C6H5 17 SEP oxazolyl SEP 0 SEP picolyl SEP H tb 18 SEP furyl SEP 0 SEP thienyl SEP H tb 19 SEP thienyl SEP S SEP furyl SEP H tb TABLE 1 cont. EMI12.1 Example SEP R1 SEP X SEP R3 SEP A tb 20 SEP picolyl SEP S SEP thiazolyl SEP H tb 21 SEP CH3 SEP S SEP isooxazolyl SEP H tb 22 SEP H SEP S SEP 1,3,5 SEP thiadiazolyl SEP H tb 23 SEP CH3 SEP S SEP pyrazinyl SEP CH3 CH2 24 SEP pyrazinyl SEP S SEP pyridazinyl SEP tolyl CH2 3 25 SEP tolyl SEP S SEP C2H5 SEP CH3O C6H4 CH2 26 SEP pyrimidinyl SEP S SEP C4H9 SEP H tb 27 SEP CH3 SEP S SEP furyl CH2 4 SEP C6H5 28 SEP isothiazolyl SEP O SEP triazolyl SEP 3,5 diBr C6H3 CH2 Ao is o, m or p preferably m or p and most preferably p