# N Amides of 2 benzothiazolinone and their use as plant growth regulants.

## Abstract
N Amides of 2 benzothiazolinone have been found to be effective in regulating the growth of leguminous plants. The invention relates to a method of regulating the growth of leguminous plants characterised by applying to the plant locus an effective plant growth regulating amount of an N amide of 2 benzothiazolinone having the formula The invention also relates to a plant growth regulating composition characterised that said composition comprises from about 5 to 95 parts by weight of a 2 oxo 3 benzothiazoline acetamides as defined above. Novel 2 oxo 3 benzothiazoline acetamides are also part of the invention.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. An N a de of 2 benzothiazolinone characterized by the formulaEMI20.1 wherein T is trifluoromethyl and halo, n is 0 or 1 m is an integer from one to four and R is selected from the group consisting of heterocyclics selected from the group consisting of morpholino, cis and trans 2,6 dimethylmorpholino, cisand trans 2,5 dimethylpyrrolidino, 3 azabicyclo 3.2.2 nonyl, and ethyl N piperazinocarboxylate. 2. A compound of Claim 1 characterized in that R is selected from the group consisting of morpholino, cis and trans 2,6 dimethylmorpholino and ethyl N piperazinocarboxylate. 3. A compound of Claim 1 characterized in that m is one. 4. A method of regulating the growth of leguminous plants characterized by applying to the plant locus an effective plant growth regulating amount of an N amide of 2 benzothiazolinone having the formula EMI21.1 wherein T is trifluorcmethyl and halo, n is 0 or 1 m is an integer from one to four and R is selected from the group consisting ofEMI21.2 wherein X and Y are independently selected from the group consisting of hydrogen, halogen, lower alkyl and trifluoromethyl R1 is hydrogen or lower alkyl and II heterocyclics selected from the group consisting of morpholino, cis and trans 2, 6 dimethylmorpholino, cis and trans 2,5 dimethyl pyrrolidino, 3 azabicyclo 3.2.2 nonyl, and ethyl N pipera z inocar boxylate. 5. A method of Claim 4 characterized in that R isEMI21.3 6. A method of Claim 5 characterized in that R1 is hydrogen. 7. A method of Claim 4 characterized in that m is one. 8, A method of Claim 7 characterized in that R isEMI21.4 9 A method of Claim 8 characterized in that R1 is hydrogen. 10. A method of Claim 4 characterized in that R is a heterocyclic selected from the group consisting of morpholino, cis and trans 2,6kimethylmorpholino, cis and trans 2,5 dimethylpyrrolidino, 3 azabicyclo 3.2.2 nonyl, and etherN piperaz inocarboxylate. 11. A method of Claim 10 characterized in that m is one. 12. A plant growth regulating composition characterized that said composition comprises from about 5 to about 95 parts by weight of a 2 oxo 3 benzothiazolineacetamide having the formulaEMI22.1 wherein T is trifluoromethyl and halo, n is O or 1 m is an integer from one to four and R is selected from the group consisting ofEMI22.2 wherein X and Y are independently selected from the group consisting of hydrogen, halogen, lower alkyl and trifluoromethyl R1 is hydrogen or lower alkyl and II heterocyclics selected from the group consisting of morpholino, cis and trans 2,6dimethylmorpholino, cis and trans 2, 5aimethylpyrrolidino, 3 azabicyclo 3.2.2 nonyl, and ethyl N piperazinocarbcxylate the remaining parts being composed of one or more suitable carriers, diluents and or adjuvants. 13. A composition of Claim 12 characterized in that R isEMI22.3 14. A composition of Claim 13 characterized in thatR1 is hydrogen. 15. A composition of Claim 12 characterized in that m is one. 16. A composition of Claim 15 characterized in that R isEMI23.1 17. A composition of Claim 16 characterized in thatR1 is hydrogen. 18. A composition of Claim 12 characterized in that R is a heterocyclic selected from the group consisting of mor pholino, cis and trans 2,6 diimethylmorpholino, cis an trans 2,5 dimethylpyrrolidino, 3 azabicyclo 3.2.2 nonyl, and ethyl N piperazinccarboxylate. 19. A composition of Claim 18 characterized in that m is one.

## Description
N PMIDES OF 2 BENZOTHIAZOLINONE This invention relates to certain N amides of 2benzothiazolinone and their use as plant growth regulants.More specifically, the invention relates to amides having the formula EMI1.1 wherein T is trifluoromethyl and halo, n is O or 1 m is an integer from one to four and R is selected from the group consisting ofEMI2.1 wherein X and Y are independently selected from the grcp consisting of hydrogen, halogen, lower alkyl and trifluoromethyl R1 is hydrogen or lower alkyl and II heterocyclics selected from the group consisting of morpholino, 2,6 cis and trans dimethylmorpholino, cis and trans 2,5 dimethylpyrrolidino, 3 azabicyclo 3.2.2 nonyl, and ethyl N piperazinocarboxylate.Preferably, , is one. The term lower alkyl as used herein is understood to mean those alkyl groups having from one to five carbon atoms inclusive. It is contemplated that the term alkyl includes primary, secondary and tertiary alkyls. As a means of clarification, the heterocyclic moieties of the foregoing formula are defined below. The term morpholino is understood to mean a radical having the structureEMI2.2 the term cis and trans 2,6 dimethylmorpholino is understood to mean a mixture of radicals having the following structuresEMI3.1 the term cis and trans 2,5 diethylpyrrolidino is understood to mean a mixture of radicals having the structureEMI3.2 the term 3 azabicyclo 3.2.2 nonyl is understood to mean a radical having the formulaEMI3.3 and the term ethyl N piperazinocarboxylate is understood to mean a radical having the formulaEMI3.4 In accordance with the novel aspects of the present invention, N amides of 2 benzothiazolinone of the foregoing formula have been found to be effective in regulating the growth of leguminous plants, such as soybeans. The compounds are especially effective in altering the leaf morphology of leguminous plants. Leguminous plants have canopies that effectively inhibit sunlight from reaching the lower leaves. For Example, only about 50 of a soybean plant s leaves intercept light from photosynthesis. Approxunately 85 of the light is absorbed by the outer layer of leaves. Many researchers feel that by altering the morphology of the leaves such that the canopy is altered, light may fall more deeply into the canopy and yields could be increased. Weber, in Field Crop Abstracts,Vol. 21, No. 4, pages 313 317, states that greater light penetration, resulting in greater amount of the soybean plant canopy having a light intensity above 150 f.c., generally led to higher seed yields .Johnson et al, in Crop Science,Vol. 9, pages 577 581, states that adding light increased the yields of bottom, middle and top canopy positions of soybean plants 30, 20 and 2 , respectively . Thus, it would be highly beneficial if a method was found whereby the canopy of such plants could be altered such that a greater number of leaves could be illuminated. As noted, the amides of the present invention are effective plant growth regulants. They are especially effective in altering the leaf morphology of leguminous plants. The ters plant regulant or plant growth regulant , as employed in this application, connotes a material which serves to modify the normal sequential development of a treated plant to agricultural maturity. Such modification may result from the effect of material on the physiological processes of the plant or from the effect of said material on the morphology of the plant. It should additionally be recognized that modifications may also result from a combination or sequence of both physiological and morphological factors. Modifying effects of a plant regulant are probably most readily observed as changes in the size, shape, color or texture of the treated plant or any of its parts. Similarly, changes in the quantity of the plant fruIt or flowers are also cuite apparent from simple, visual inspection. The above changes may be characterized as an acceleration or retardation of plant growth, such as increase or decrease in dry weight accumulation, stature reduction, leaf or canopy alteration, increased branching, terminal inhibition, increased flowering or fruit set. Modifications in the normal sequential development of a treated plant to agricultural maturity may also be mani fester by reduced transpiration or increased carbohydrate deposition or protein content. It is to be understood that the regulation of plants in accordance with the instant invention does not include the total inhibition or the killing of such plants. Although phytotoxic amounts of the materials disclosed herein might be employed to exert a herbicidal killing action, it is contemplated herein to employ only plant regulating amounts of such materials in order to modify the normal sequential development of the treated plant to agricultural maturity. The application of a plant regulating amount may be applied to plants in sequence at various stages of the plants development to obtain various desirable responses.As may be expected, and as is apparent to those skilled in the art, such plant regulating amount will vary, not only with the material selected, but also with the modifying effect desired, the species of plant and its stage of development, the plant growth medium and whether a permanent or transitory effect is sought. It is presently known that certain benzothiazyl compounds possess herbicidal activity. U.S. Patent No. 3,069,429 discloses the use of derivatives of 4 halogeno 2 oxobenzothiazolin 3 ylacetic acid to kill weeds. U.S. Patent No. 3,651,074 and 3,839,349 disclose the use of certain 2 oxo 3 benzothiazolines as a herbicide. None of these patents, however, disclose the use of the specific benzothiazolines used in accordance with the present invention to regulate the growth of plants. Further, none of these patents disclose the use of such benzothiazolines to alter the canopy of leguminous plants. It is further known that certain benzothiazyl compounds possess plant growth regulating activity. U.S. PatentNo. 2,468,075 discloses the use of such compounds as abscission agents. Japanese Patent No. 71 21378 discloses that snch compounds possess plant growth regulating activity, but does not disclose any specific uses. Japanese Patent No. 73 10182 discloses the use of benzothiazyl compounds as grafting agents for tree root growth. V.S. Patent No. 3,661,921 discloses 2 oxo 3 benzothiazolineacetamides as anti flammatory agents.U.S. Patent No. 4,049,419 discloses the use of certain 2 cxo 3 benzothiazolineacetamides as plant growth regulants. The prior art does not disclose, however, the hetero cyclic amides of 2 benzothia olinone of the foregoing formula nor does the prior art disclose the use of the vides of the foregoing formula as a plant growth regulant for leguminous plants. Generally, the amides of the invention are prepared by reaction of the appropriate acid chloride of 2 benzothiazo linone with the appropriate amine. Said acid chlorides may be prepared in accordance with U. S. Patent No. 4,075,216 wherein the preparation of 2 oxo 3 benzothiazolineacetyl chloride is disclosed. That application discloses N substituted 2 benzothiazolinones including certain N acetamides of 2 benzothiazolinone. Alternatively, amides of the foregoing formula in which R isEMI6.1 may be prepared by reacting 2 benzothiazolol with the appropriate chloroalkylanilide. To illustrate the method for preparing the compounds of the invention, the following examples are presented. Said examples are meant to be for illustration only and are not included as a limitation on the scope of the invention. Example 1 To a stirred slurry containing 15.9 grams 0.07 mole of 2 oxo 3 benzothiazolineacetyl chloride in 200 ml of heptane, 0.2 moles of cis and trans 2,5 dimethylpyrrolidine is added in one portion. The stirred reaction mixture is heated at reflux for six hours and held at 25 300C. for about 18 hours. After addition of 800 ml of water, stirring is continued at 25 300C. for 30 minutes. The solid is collected by filtration, washed with water until neutral to litmus and air dried at 25 300C. Analytical data is summarized in Table I, below. Examples 2 16 The procedure of Example I is repeated utilizing in lieu of cis and trans 2,5 dimethylpyrrolidine the following amines.Example 2 3 azabicyclo 3.2.2 nonaneExample 3 ethyl N piperazinecarboxylateExample 4 m trifluoromet hyl aniline Example 5 m chloroanilineExample 6 o chloroanilineExample 7 o fluoroanilineExample 8 E fluoroaniline Example 9 2 chloro 5 trifluoromethylar.iline Example 10 cis and trans 2,6aimethylmorpholine Example 11 2 trifluoromethyl 4 chloroanilineExample 12 3,5 ditrifluoromethyianiline Example 13 3 trifluoromethyl 4 chloroaniline Example 14 m fluoroanilineExample 15 p chloroaniline Example 16 aniline Example 17 The procedure of Example 1 is repeated utilizing 5 chloro 2 oxo 3 benzothiazolineacetyl chloride in lieu of 2 oxo 3 benzothiazolineacetyl chloride and m trif luoromethylaniline in lieu of cis and trans 2,5 dimethylpyrrolidine. Example 18 To a stirred solution containlng 15.1 grams 0.1 mole of 2 benzothiazolol, 6.6 grams 0.1 mole of 85 potassium hydroxide, 200 ml of acetone and 10 ml of water, 0.1 mole of 2 chloro N isopropylacetanilide is added in one portion. The stirred reaction mixture is heated at reflux for six hours and at 25 300C. for 18 hours. After the addition of 800 ml of water, stirring is continued for.30 minutes. The solid is collected by filtration, washed with water until the washings are neutral to litmus and air dried at 25 300C. The product, m.p. 165 1660C., is obtained in 89 yield. After recrystallization from isopropyl alcohol, it melted at 166 1670C. Example 19 To a stirred solution containing 8.4 grams 0.055 mole of 2 benzothiazolol, 3.7 grams 0.055 mole of 85 potassium hydroxide, 100 ml of DMF and 10 ml of water, 12 grams 0.05 mole of 2 chloro 2 ,6 diethyl N methylacetanilide is added in one portion. The stirred reaction mixture is heated at 80 900C. for 24 hours. After cooling to 250C., 800 ml of water is added and stirring continued at 25 300C. for 30 minutes. The solid is collected by filtration, washed with water until the washings are neutral to litmus and air dried at 25 300C. The product, m.p. 161 1620C., is obtained in 935 yield. After recrystallization from isopropyl alcohol, it melted at 163 164 C. Analytical data for the compounds of Examples 1 19 is summarized in Table I, below. Table I EMI10.1 EMI10.2 Example SEP Percent SEP Percent SEP C SEP Percent SEP H SEP Percent SEP N SEP Percent SEP S tb Number SEP T SEP R SEP m.p. C. SEP yield SEP Calc d. SEP Found SEP Calc d. SEP Found SEP Calc d. SEP Found SEP Calc d. SEP Found tb SEP CH3 tb SEP tb 1 SEP H SEP N SEP 167 8a SEP 74 SEP 62.04 SEP 61.94 SEP 6.25 SEP 6.30 SEP 9.65 SEP 9.71 SEP 11.04 SEP 11.07 tb SEP tb SEP CH3 tb SEP CH2 tb SEP tb 2 SEP H SEP N SEP 198 9b SEP 81 SEP 64.53 SEP 64.52 SEP 6.37 SEP 6.41 SEP 8.85 SEP 8.88 SEP 10.13 SEP 10.08 tb SEP tb SEP CH2 tb 3 SEP H SEP N NCOC2H5 SEP 165 6 SEP 57 SEP 55.00 SEP 55.19 SEP 5.48 SEP 5.53 SEP 12.03 SEP 12.00 SEP 9.13 SEP 9.11 tb SEP tb SEP O tb 4 SEP H SEP NH SEP 241 2 SEP 93 SEP 94.54 SEP 54.57 SEP 3.15 SEP 3.16 SEP 7.95 SEP 8.02 SEP 9.10 SEP 9.12 tb SEP CF3 tb Table I Cont d EMI11.1 EMI11.2 Example SEP Percent SEP Percent SEP C SEP Percent SEP H SEP Percent SEP N SEP Percent SEP S tb Number SEP T SEP R SEP m.p. C. SEP yield SEP Calc d. SEP Found SEP Calc d. SEP Found SEP Calc d. SEP Found SEP Calc d. SEP Found tb 5 SEP H SEP NH SEP 242 3 SEP 98 SEP 56 52 SEP 56.40 SEP 3.48 SEP 3.49 SEP 8.79 SEP 8.81 SEP 10.06 SEP 10.16 tb SEP Cl tb 6 SEP H SEP NH SEP 218 9 SEP 90 SEP 56 52 SEP 56.49 SEP 3.48 SEP 3.49 SEP 8.79 SEP 8.78 SEP 10.06 SEP 10.11 tb SEP Cl tb 7 SEP H SEP NH SEP 211 2 SEP 95 SEP 59.59 SEP 59.40 SEP 3.67 SEP 3.71 SEP 9.27 SEP 9.21 SEP 10.61 SEP 10.54 tb SEP F tb 8 SEP H SEP NH F SEP 215 6 SEP 90 SEP 59.59 SEP 59.71 SEP 3.67 SEP 1.71 SEP 9.27 SEP 9.32 SEP 10.61 SEP 10.63 tb Table I Cont d EMI12.1 EMI12.2 Example SEP Percent SEP Percent SEP C SEP Percent SEP H SEP Percent SEP N SEP Percent SEP S tb Number SEP T SEP R SEP m.p. SEP C. SEP Yield SEP Calc d. SEP Found SEP Calc d. SEP Found SEP Calc d. SEP Found SEP Calc d. SEP Found tb SEP Cl tb SEP 9 SEP H SEP NH SEP 212 3 SEP 89 SEP 49.69 SEP 50.18 SEP 2.61 SEP 2.77 SEP 7.24 SEP 7.22 SEP SEP SEP CF3 tb SEP CH3 tb 10 SEP H SEP N O SEP 187 8 SEP 75 SEP 58.80 SEP 58.61 SEP 5.92 SEP 5.98 SEP 9.14 SEP 9.07 SEP 10.47 SEP 10.52 tb SEP CH3 tb 11 SEP H SEP NH Cl SEP 251 2b SEP 92 SEP 49.69 SEP 49.55 SEP 2.61 SEP 2.64 SEP 7.24 SEP 7.15 SEP 8.28 SEP 8.37 tb SEP CF3 tb SEP CF3 tb 12 SEP H SEP NH SEP 272 3c SEP 82 SEP 48.58 SEP 48.67 SEP 2.40 SEP 2.45 SEP 6.66 SEP 6.65 SEP 7.63 SEP 7.73 tb SEP CF3 tb Table I Cont d EMI13.1 EMI13.2 Example SEP Percent SEP Percent SEP C SEP Percent SEP H SEP Percent SEP N SEP Percent SEP S tb Number SEP T SEP R SEP m.p. SEP C. SEP Yield SEP Calc d. SEP Found SEP Calc d. SEP Found SEP Calc d. SEP Found SEP Calc d. SEP Found tb SEP CF3 tb 13 SEP H SEP NH Cl SEP 260 1c SEP 93 SEP 49.69 SEP 49.72 SEP 2.61 SEP 2.65 SEP 7.24 SEP 7.31 SEP 8.28 SEP 8.39 tb SEP F tb 14 SEP H SEP NH SEP 238 9c SEP 95 SEP 59.59 SEP 59.50 SEP 3.67 SEP 3.68 SEP 9.27 SEP 9.28 SEP 10.61 SEP 10.69 tb 15 SEP H SEP NH Cl SEP 247 8d SEP 94 SEP 56.52 SEP 56.72 SEP 3.48 SEP 3.74 SEP 8.79 SEP 9.04 SEP 10.06 SEP 9.88 tb 16 SEP H SEP NHC6H5 SEP 216 7a SEP 77 SEP 63.36 SEP 63.28 SEP 4.25 SEP 4.27 SEP 9.85 SEP 9.87 SEP 11.28 SEP 11.36 tb Table I Cont d EMI14.1 EMI14.2 Example SEP Percent SEP Percent SEP C SEP Percent SEP H SEP Percent SEP N SEP Percent SEP S tb Number SEP T SEP R SEP m.p. SEP C. SEP Yield SEP Calc d. SEP Found SEP Calc d. SEP Found SEP Calc d. SEP Found SEP Calc d. SEP Found tb SEP CF3 tb 17 SEP 5 Cl SEP NH SEP 241 2c SEP 94 SEP 49.69 SEP 49.64 SEP 2.61 SEP 2.60 SEP 7.24 SEP 7.27 SEP 8.29 SEP 8.33 tb 18 SEP H SEP N SEP 166 7a SEP 89 SEP 66.23 SEP 66.17 SEP 5.56 SEP 5.59 SEP 8.58 SEP 8.63 SEP 9.82 SEP 9.89 tb SEP CH CH3 2 tb SEP C2H5 tb 19 SEP H SEP N SEP 163 4a SEP 93 SEP 68.82 SEP 68.52 SEP 6.05 SEP 6.14 SEP 7.64 SEP 7.66 SEP 8.75 SEP 8.90 tb SEP SEP C2H5 tb SEP CH3 tb a SEP Recrystallization SEP from SEP isopropyl SEP alcohol. tb b SEP Recrystallization SEP from SEP toluene. tb c SEP Recrystallization SEP from SEP ethyl SEP acetate. tb d SEP Recrystallization SEP from SEP DMF. tb e SEP Recrystallization SEP from SEP methyl SEP alcohol. tb In accordance with the novel aspects of the present invention, the amides of the foregoing formula are used as the active ingredient in compositions that are useful as plant growth regulants. In practicing the plant growth regulating methods of this invention, the active ingredient can be used alone or in combination with a material referred to in the art as an aduvant in liquid or solid form. The plant growth regulating compositions of this invention are prepared by admixing the active ingredient with an adjuvant including diluents, extenders, carriers and conditioning agents to provide compositions in the form of fInely divided particulate solids, granules, pellets, wettable powders, dusts, solutions and aqueous dispersions or emulsions.Thus, the active ingredient can be used with an adjuvant such as a finely divided particulate solid, a solvent liquid of organic origin, water, a wetting agent, dispersing agent, or emulsifying agent or any suitable combination of these. When applying the active ingredient to leguminous plants, useful finelydivided solid carriers and extenders include, for example, the talcs, clays, pumice, silica, diatomaceous earth, quartz, Fullers earth, sulfur, powdered cork, powdered wood, walnut flour, chalk, tobacco dust, charcoal and the like. Typical liquid diluents useful in applying the active ingredient to leguminous plants include, for example,Stoddard solvent, acetone, alcohols, glycols, ethyl acetate, benzene ar.d the like. Such leguminous plant growth regulating compositions, particularly liquids and wettable powders, usually contain as a conditioning agent one or more surface active agents Ir. amounts sufficient to render a given composition readily dispersible in water or in oil.By the term surface active agent it is understood that wetting agents, dispersing agents, suspending agents and emulsifying agents are included therein. Such surface active agents are well known and reference is made to U.S. Patent No. 2,547,724, columns 3 and 4, for detailed examples of the same. Compositions of this invention generally contain from about 5 to 95 parts active ingredient, about lt 1 to 50 parts surface active agent and about 4 to 94 parts solvent, all parts being by weight based on the total weight of the composition. Desirable modification of leguminous plants may be achieved by applying the above described plant regulants to the plant locus. The term plant locus is understood herein to include the plant growing medium, such as the soil, as well as the seeds, emerging seedlings, roots, stems, leaves, flowers, fruits or other plant parts. The application of liquid and particulate solid compositions of the active ingredient can be carried out by conventional techniques utilizing, for example, spreaders, power dusters, boom and hand sprayers and spray dusters. The compositions can also be applied from airplanes as a dust or spray.If desired, application of the compositions of the invention to leguminous plants can be accomplished by incorporating the compositions in the soil or other media in the area where modification of the plants is desired. To illustrate the variety of regulatory responses observed, the compounds of the invention were tested in accordance with the following procedure. A number of soybean plants are grown from seeds in plastic pots in the greenhouse for a period of one week at which time the plants are thinned to one plant per pot. When the second trifoliate leaf is fully expanded, the plants are treated with a solution of the active ingredient in acetone and water.Aqueous Tween 20 is used as a surfactant. When the fifth trifoliate leaf of the control is fully expanded, the treated plants are compared with the nontreated control plants and the observations recorded. Table II, below, summarizes those results and observat ions. Table IICompound of RateExample No. kg ha Observations 1 2.8 Leaf alteration, altered canopy. 0.56 No response. 0.112 No response. 2 2.8 Leaf alteration. 0.56 Leaf alteration. 0.112 No response. 3 2.8 Leaf distortion of new growth, leaf alteration of new growth, leaf inhibition, stature reduction, altered canopy. 0.56 Leaf distortion of new growth, leaf alteration of new growth, altered canopy, chlorosis. 0.112 Leaf alteration. 4 2.8 Increase in dry weight accumulation. 0.56 No response. 0.112 Leaf alteration. 5 2.8 Leaf alteration of existing growth, decrease in dry weight accumulation. 0.56 Leaf alteration, decrease in dry weight accumulation. 0.112 Decrease in cry .weight accumulation. 6 2.8 Leaf alteration of new growth, leaf inhibition, altered canopy. 0.56 Leaf alteration of new growth, leaf inhibition, altered canopy. 0.112 Leaf alteration of new growth, leaf inhibition, altered canopy. Table II Cont d Compound of RateExample No. kg ha Observations 7 2.8 Leaf alteration of new growth, leaf inhibition, altered canopy. 0.56 Leaf alteration of new growth, leaf inhibition. 0.112 Leaf alteration of new growth. 8 2.8 Leaf alteration of existing growth, leaf alteration of new growth, leaf inhibition, altered canopy. 0.56 Leaf alteration of new growth. 0.112 No response. 18 2.8 No response. 0.56 No response. 0.112 Increase in dry weight accumulation. The above data illustrates that the compounds of the invention are rather effective in altering the leaf morphology of soybean plants. Such alteration may lead to enhanced photosynthesis. In selecting the appropriate non toxic rate of application of the active ingredient to leguminous plants, it will be recognized that precise rates will also be dependent upon the mode of application, such as soil incorporation, band application, pre plant seed treatment, result desired and various other factors known to those skilled in the art. In applications to the soil habitat of germinant seeds, emerging seedlings, and established vegetation for the regulation of plant growth, the active. ingredients are applied in amounts of from about 0.05 to about 20 pounds per acre or more 0.056 to 22.4 kilos hectare . Foliar application is particuiarly advantageous and is preferred, especially at rates from about 0.1 to about 5.0 pounds per acre 0.112 to 5.6 kilos hectare . Although this invention has been described with respect to specific modifications, the retails thereof are not to be construed as limitations, for it will be apparent that various equivalents, changes and modifications may be resorted to without departing from the spirit and scope thereof and it is understood that such equivalent embodiments are intended to be included herein.