# Thermoplastic films for soil treatment and method of maintaining fumigants in contact with soil.

## Abstract
Thermoplastic films comprising laminates of polyethylene and a relatively thinner nylon layer are emp loyed as protective coverings over agricultural fields, which have been treated with fumigants. The improved resistance to fumigant vapor penetration of such laminates results in improved retention of the volatile fumigant materials in con tact with the soil which is being treated.

## Claims
WHAT IS CLAIMED IS 1. An agricultural fumigant barrier film, comprising a laminate of a polyethylene film and a nylon 6 coating layer. 2. The laminate of claim 1 wherein said polyethylene is high density polyethylene. 3. The laminate of claim 2 wherein said high density polyethylene is a copolymer of ethylene with a minor amount of octene l. 4. The laminate of claim 1 wherein said polyethylene contains a minor amount of an ionomer resin blended therein. 5. The laminate of claim 1 wherein said nylon 6 layer comprises no more than 20 of the overall thickness of said laminate. 6. A method for maintaining volatile agricultural fumigants in intimate contact with soil which comprises injecting said fumigants into said soil and subsequently covering the fumigant treated soil with a laminar film comprising a layer of polyethylene having adhered thereto a layer of nylon 6.

## Description
THERMOPLASTIC FILMS FOR SOIL TREATMENT The present invention relates to laminar plastic films such as laminates of high density polyethylene with nylon. Such films are particularly suited for protecting soils which have been previously treated with fumigants such as methyl bromide and chloropicrin, preventing escape of the applied fumigants until they have completely saturated the soil being treated. Soil fumigation is employed extensively in certain growing areas in order to pretreat soil prior to planting in an effort to eradicate or reduce inoculum of soil pathogens. In some instances, soils are fumigated when specific diseases that cause unacceptable losses occur. Generally, soil fumigation is employed to treat soil which is to be planted with so called high risk high value crops including for example, tobacco, strawberries, tomatoes, ornamental plants, and the like. It has been found that in the absence of such fumigation treatment, buildup of soil born diseases that attack the root systems of such crops will occur and cause unacceptable crop losses. Agricultural soils are routinely fumigated with volatile chemicals such as methyl bromide or mixtures of methyl bromide with chloropicrin.These gases are injected into the soil to be treated with commercially available equipment. Because it may take up to 48 hours, and in some cases a week or more, following treatment before the gases have effectively saturated the soil , and in view of the fumigants high toxicity as well as its relatively high cost, it is desirable that the fumigant treated soil be completely covered with a barrier material such as for example, a thermoplastic sheet, immediately after it has been injected into the soil. Currently in agricultural fumigation of soils, the barrier film which is most commonly employed is a low density polyethylene sheeting. However, it has been found that the conventional low density polyethylene films currently used as fumigant barriers offer only very limited resistance to the penetration of the fumigant vapors so that approximately 1 2 to 2 3 of the fumigant gas, such as methyl bromide and or chloropicrin, after being applied to a field, escapes through the low density polyethylene barrier film. In addition to the attendant expense of the lost fumigant, there is increased concern regarding the adverse environmental aspects of soil fumigation and the escape into the atmosphere of such highly toxic gases. More stringent regulations limiting atmospheric emissions of this type may be forthcoming from regulatory agencies in the future.Another obvious disadvantage of escaping fumigants is the potential health hazards which are posed to individuals working in the immediate area, as well as residential areas which may surround farms employing such hazardous and toxic fumigant materials. Attempts to replace low density polyethylene films, because of its poor barrier characteristics, with other materials such as polyester films, saran films and the like, all of which offer some improved barrier characteristics over monolayer low density polyethylene, have met with little success in view of the economic disadvantages attendant with the employment of such costly film substitutes.Unfortunately, until the advent of the present invention, monolayer low density polyethylene film has been the only effective film available in the quantity, cost, and with the physical strength requisites required for commercial fumigation. A basic objective of the present invention is to provide effective soil fumigation with a minimum disturbance of the environment. Accordingly the present invention provides a retentive soil cover of high mechanical strength which allows the quantity of toxic fumigant chemicals employed to be reduced by upwards of fifty percent of the quantities which are currently employed when low density polyethylene alone is used as the barrier film. These objectives are met when, in accordance with the present invention, a barrier film is provided in the form of a laminate comprising a layer of polyethylene having bonded thereto a thin coating layer of nylon6. It has been found that when such a film is employed as a barrier covering over fumigated soil areas, escape of the volatile fumigant gases is dramatically reduced in comparison to when low density polyethylene coverings are utilized.Tne laminar films of the present invention may be formed by extrusion coating a preformed film, e.g. polyethylene, with a thin coating of nylon 6.Alternatively, the films may be preformed by extrusion and subsequently laminated together in the presence of adhesive materials, and the like. A still further method for producing polyethylene nylon 6 laminates comprising coextrusion, tubular or cast, of respective layers of the molten resinous materials through a common die orifice, utilizing coextrusion tecnniques which are well known to those skilled in the art. This latter technique of coextrusion is the preferred method for the production of the present laminates, although other hereinbefore described techniques may also be employed. Nylon is a generic name for polyamide polymers characterized by the presence of the amide group CONH .Nylon 6, the grade of nylon used in the present invention, is a polymer of caprolactam. Commercially employed fumigating techniques will vary according to the soil being treated, the nature of the terrain, the crop for which the field is being prepared, and the nature of the problem the fumigation is intended to attack, for example a fungus, insect, bacteria or weed. Commercially available fumigating equipment includes vehicles such as a full tracked tractor upon which may be mounted a series of tanks containing the various fumigants being used. Metering devices measure selected dosages of fumigants which are drilled or injected into the soil as the tractor moves across the field. Attached to the same tractor and positioned behind the fumigant injectors, is a unit which carries the rolls of plastic barrier film.The fim dispenser unit covers over the ground as soon as the fumigants are applied, thereby minimizing the escape of the applied fumigants. The nylon polyethylene coextruded films of the present invention provide exceptional gas barrier resistance and the mechanical strength required for such field applications. The optimum thickness of the laminar barrier films of the present invention is generally dependent upon factors which include resin costs, effective barrier properties, mechanical strength necessary for handling in field applications, and similar considerations. Gauges in excess of 300 microns 10 mils for example, while providing effective barrier properties, may present problems in handling and application to the soil being treated. It has been found that the laminar structures of the present invention when employed in thicknesses of from 10 microns 0.5 mil to 80 microns 3 mils , and preferably from 30 to 50 microns 1 to 2 mils are quite effective. The ratio of nylon layer thickness to high density polyethylene layer thickness may vary widely. However, preferred thickness ratios of nylon to polyethylene are from about 1 40 up to about 1 4, and preferably about 1 9. In the following Example, a nylon 6 high density polyethylene laminate having an overall thickness of about 33 microns 1.3 mils was prepared.The nylon layer was approximately 3 microns 0.1 mil and the high density polyethylene layer was about 31 microns 1.2 mils . It has been found that the chemical resistance of the nylon, even in gauges as low as 3 microns 0.1 mil , significantly improves the barrier resistance of the resultant laminates in contrast to the conventional low density polyethylene single layer films which are currently commercially employed. The following Example sets forth one of the coextrusion techniques which may be employed to produce the barrier laminate films of the present invention. In the Example a laminate comprising high density polyethylene and nylon was prepared. However it will be understood that other forms of polyethylene, including low density polyethylene and copolymers thereof and high density polyethylene homopolymers may also be employed. EXAMPLE 1 High density polyethylene resin blended with approximately 8 of an ionomer resin identified by the manufacturer as Surlyn were fed into the hopper of a standard thermoplastic extruder. The Surlyn resin was employed in the present Example as an adhesion promoting agent which enhances the bonding characteristics of the high density polyethylene resin layer to the applied nylon 6 layer. The high density polyethylene resin employed was a copolymer of ethylene and about 3 by weight of octene l. This resin is identified by the manufacturer as Alathon 7810, and has the following typical physical properties for a 31 microns 1.2 mil film extruded at a 4.3 1 blow up ratio Density .945 g ccMelt Index .25 g 10 min.Tensile Yiel MD 2 x 104 kPa 3,000 psi TD 2.1 x 104 kPa 3,100 ps i Elongation MD 660 2 min. TD 730 Secant Modulus MD 5.5 x 10 kPa 80M psi TD 5.7 x 105 kPa 82M psi Elmendorf Tear MD 1.8 g micron 45 g mi TD 9.7 g micron 250 g mxl Spencer Impact 1.2 x 10 2 Nm micron 2.8 in. lbs mil Dart Drop 26 4.53 g micron 115 g mil Tear Propagation MD 3.2 Kg forceASTM D 2582 TD 3.7 Kg force The Surlyn, ionomer adhesion promoter resin, employed is of the type disclosed and described in detail in U.S. Patent No. 3,496,061. Nylon 6 resin was introduced into a satellite extruder and molten nylon resin was fed into the same tubular die as the high density polyethylene Surlyn mixture. The nylon 6 resin was identified by the manufacturer as CAPRON 8207, and had the following physical properties Density 1.13 g ccTensile, Yield 8.14 x 10 kPa 11,800 psi ASTM D 638 Deflection Temperature 60 0C 140 F. ASTM D 648 at 1.82 x 103 kPa 264 psi stress The resultant two ply laminated film produced in accordance with the present Example comprised adhered layers of the high density ethylene octene l copolymer ionomer mixture layer and the relativately thin nylon 6 layer, and had the following properties Film Gauge 30 microns 1.0 mil. Blow up Ratio 4 1 Tensile, Ultimate MD 5.63 x 104 kPa 8170 psi TD 3.0 x 104 kPa 4400 psi Tensile, Yiel MD 1,9 x 104 kPa 2800 psi TD 2 x 104 kPa 3000 psi Elongation MD 560 TD 4802 Tear Elmendorf MD 1.1 g micron 28 g mil TD 17 g micron 440 g mil Thickness of HDPE 31 microns 1.2 mils layer Thickness of nylon 3 microns 0.1 mil layer The film produced in accordance with Example 1 was tested for its resistance to the diffusion of methyl bromide and chloropicrin therethrough.The following is a description of the apparatus, as shown in FIGURE 1, which was employed to test the diffusion rates of the laminates produced in accordance withExample 1, and also to compare them with commercially available low density polyethylene films which are currently employed as fumigant barriers. As shown schematically in FIGURE 1 the diffusion testing apparatus consisted of two units, a top unit, not shown, which is an exact mirror image of the bottom unit illustrated in FIGURE 1. The device comprises an aluminum plate 11, hollowed on its backside surface by machine milling and having a flat face 11 . Rubber gasket 12 and plate 13 are attached to the undersurface of aluminum plate 11 with screws not shown around the perimeter of the hollow backside of plate 11 to provide a water tight seal. Inlet valve 16 and outlet valve 16 are located at opposite ends of plate 11 and are provided for the circulation of temperature controlled water. The mating half of the apparatus not shown , which is a mirror image of the apparatus shown in FIGURE 1, was connected in series to complete the water circuit.Polyethylene separation sheet 15, into which is cut an oblong hole 17, hole 17 being the active area of diffusion, is adhesively secured to the face 11 of plate 11. In operation, a piece of film to be tested was stretched across the face of the polyethylene sheet 15. The mating plate not shown was subsequently interfaced and the two were then pressed together withC clamps to provide a gas tight seal. Water circulation was begun at room temperature 250C and a known concentration of methyl bromide in air, flowing at 20 ml min., was attached to inlet valve 16 of the lower plate. The gas flowed across the open hollow space of plate 11 and was vented through outlet valve 16 . To the inlet valve 16 of the upper plate was attached a supply of clean air, also flowing at the rate of 20 ml min., flowing in a direction opposite the gas flow in the lower plate.The air and any diffused methyl bromide contained therein, existing through oulet valve 11 of the upper plate, was conducted via stainless tubing to a gas chromatograph not shown for periodic analysis. When equilibrium diffusion was attained, indicated by a series of gas chromatograph recorder peaks of equal height, the water temperature was increased to 30 C and measurements made until a steady state was again attained. In successive steps, the temperature was raised to 40, 50 and finally to 60 C. Such temperature conditions are likely to be encountered in the field at the barrier film surfaces. The diffusion tests for chloropicrin were identical to those for methyl bromide. The following Table I sets forth the numerical results of the testing. The values are expressed as ml liter of gas diffusing per hour, per square meter, per mil. For comparison, diffusion values for a typical one mil low density polyethylene film are included in the following Table. The gas concentrations for the testing were 40 ml of methyl bromide per liter of air and 22 ml of chloropicrin per liter of air. TABLE I 33 micron HDPE nylon 3 micron nylon 1.3 mil HDPE nylon .1 mil nylon 3 micron 1 mil LDPETemperature methyl bromide Chloropicrin methyl bromide Chloropicrin 25 C 0.02 0.06 0.04 mil 8.9 30 0.06 0.08 0.07 12.9 55.5 40 0.11 0.16 0.14 20.0 68.3 50 0.28 0.29 0.28 27.3 70.7 60 0.51 0.50 0.51 33.9 98.4 Test piece of film programmed 2 hr at 25 , 1 hr at each of the other temp, 16 hr overnight at 40 , and 1 hr at 60 , Diffused chloripicrin not measurable. It will be seen from the foregoing Table, when contrasted with conventional monolayer low density polyethylene barrier films, the nylon polyethylene laminates of the present invention provide vastly superior resistance to diffusion of methyl bromide and chloroDicrin therethrough.