# Heat exchanger core and heat exchanger comprising such a core.

## Abstract
The outermost tubes 50 of a heat exchanger core 20 have not previously been cooled as adequately as the interior tubes 50 by the flow of air between the fins 40 and the tubes 50 . In this invention a cover 80,85 is connected over the edges 45 of the fins 40 defining a respective one of first and second end surfaces 70,75 and is spaced from the air inlet surface 60 of the core 20 . Consequently, the outermost tube 50 , which is nearest the cover 80,85 is cooled substantially to the same degree as the other tubes 50 . In one example, about a 5 increase in the thermal efficiency of the core 20 is attained.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A heat exchanger core 20 comprising a plurality of closely spaced fins 40 having peripheral edges 45 defining an air inlet surface 60 , an air outlet surface 65 , and first and second end surfaces 70575 and at least one tube 50 extending through the fins 40 spaced from the air inlet surface 60 ,character ised in that one of the first and second core end surfaces 70, 75 is provided with a first cover 80, 85 , the cover being spaced from the air inlet surface 60 . 2. A heat exchanger core 20 according to claim 1, characterised in that the core 20 is positioned with the inlet surface oriented at between 100 and 400 to the direction of incident air flow in use, with the first and second end surfaces offset in the air flow direction. 3. A heat exchanger core 20 according to claim I or claim 2, characterised in that the other of the first and second end surfaces 70, 75 is provided with a second cover 85,80 , the second cover being spaced from the air inlet surface 60 . 4. A heat exchanger core 20 according to any of claims 1 to 3, characterised in that the or each cover 80, 85 is spaced from the air inlet surface 60 a distance substantially equal to the spacing of the tube 50 from the inlet surface 60 . 5. A heat exchanger core 20 according to any of the preceding claims, characterised in that the or each tube 50 is spaced from the air outlet surface 65 , the or each cover 80,85 being spaced from the air outlet surface 65 a distance substantially equal to the spacing of the tube 50 from the outlet surface 65 . 6. A heat exchanger core 20 according to any of the preceding claims characterised in that there are a plurality of substantially parallel tubes so and in that the spacing between the or each cover 80,85 and a nearest one of the tubes 50 is substantially equal to half the spacing between adjacent tubes 50 . 7. A heat exchanger core 20 according to any of the preceding claims, characterised in that the or each cover 80,85 has a width D2 substantially equal to the elongate dimension D1 of the cross section of the or each tube 50 , the or each cover 80,85 being substantially parallel to a respective adjacent tube 50 . 8. A heat exchanger core 20 according to any of the preceding claims characterised in that the or each cover 80 is formed of a plurality of tabs 88 which are formed by extensions of the fins beyond the peripheral edges 45 at the respective first and second end surfaces 70, 75 of the core and which are bent over into a plane substantially parallel to a respective adjacent tube 50 . 9. A heat exchanger core 20 according to any of the preceding claims, characterised in that the or each tube 50 has an elongate cross section, the tube being positioned with the elongate dimension extending generally between the air inlet and the air outlet surface. 10. A heat exchanger core according to claim 8 and claim 9 characterised in that each tab has a dimension D3 substantially equal to the elongate dimension D1 of the cross section of the or each tube. 11. A heat exchanger 10 comprising first 20 and second 25 heat exchanger cores according to any of the preceding claims, the cores 20,25 being mounted in a generally V configuration with the first end surfaces of the cores at the apex of the V . 12. A heat exchanger 10 according to claim 8, wherein the heat exchanger has three or more heat exchanger cores mounted in a zig zag arrangement with alternately first end surfaces 70 and second end surfaces 75 of adjacent cores adjacent one another. 13. A heat exchanger 10 according to claim 11 or claim 12, characterised by a gap 90 between adjacent first end surfaces 70 of adjacent cores 20,25 .

## Description
HEAT EXCHANGER CORE. This invention relates to a heat exchanger core, and, more particularly, to a core construction for increasing heat rejection and improving cooling. Heat exchangers, such as those used in earthmoving vehicles, must have sufficient capacity to cool the engine by the passage of air through and around the heat exchanger core. In the past, it has at times been necessary to use large fans operating at relatively high speeds to provide sufficient air flow through the heat exchanger core. Unfortunately, large fans may use excessive power and cause vibration and noise which is undesirable. Current noise regulations, in fact, restrict the use of large noisy fans so that other means must be found to provide effective cooling without excessive noise, One way to increase cooling capacity is shown inU.S.Patent Specification No. 4,034,804. This specification discloses a radiator operable with a flow of air for cooling a quantity of water and is formed as zig zag or folded walls, each of which contains air ducts. Cooling water tubes with elongate cross sections are arranged in a number of flat cores being of the same width as the tube widths. The upper and lower sides of the cores are located in the front and rear planes, respectively, of the radiator. The cores are connected together alternately on their front and rear sides in an airtight manner.Similarly,Figure IP, page 866 of the technical paper, A HighPerformance Radiator by Asselman, Mulder, and Meijer presented at the 1972 Intersociety Energy ConversionEngineering Conference, shows core connection members which completely cover the ends of the fins. The zig zag pattern increases the cooling capacity by increasing the radiator surface area exposed to the flow of air without increasing the frontal area of the radiator. However, a problem exists with the zig zag core patterns disclosed above in that the air duct surfaces of the respective core connection members are shaped and positioned substantially differently from the air duct surface of the respective cooling water tubes such that the outermost ducts at both ends of the cores, formed by the respective outermost tube, core connection member, and adjacent fins, do not provide the same resistance to air flow as the ducts formed between adjacent tubes and fins. Consequently, the outermost tubes at both ends of the cores are not cooled to the same degree as the other tubes.Hence, such folded or zig zag pattern cores have heretofore not been fully effectively utilized at or near their maximum cooling efficiency. Another problem with such zig zag pattern cores is that the cores become plugged with debris at the apexes defined by the zig zag pattern. U.S. PatentSpecification No. 4,034,804 illustrates one solution to this debris problem in the form of a fine gauze placed around the outside of each core. Another attempt to solve this problem is described in U.S. PatentSpecification No. 4,116,265. This latter specification discloses gaps between converging, adjacent cores which are closed by movable plugs during normal use and and which are opened when periodic debris purging is performed. U.S.Patent Specification No.4,076,072 discloses a zig zag pattern of cores which are spaced apart a short distance so as continually to permit debris that would normally pile up in the converging trough to go on through. It is therefore desirable to have a heat exchanger core which will more closely approach theoretical efficiency for cooling. It is also desirable to avoid the debris collection problem in such an efficient heat exchanger core. In accordance with the present invention a heat exchanger core comprises a plurality of closely spaced fins having peripheral edges defining an air inlet surface, an air outlet surface, and first and second end surfaces and at least one tube extending through the fins spaced from the air inlet surface wherein one of the first and second core end surfaces is provided with a first cover, the cover being spaced from the air inlet surface. Preferably, the core is positioned with the inlet surface oriented at between 100 and 400 to the direction of incident air flow in use, with the first and second end surfaces offset in the air flow direction. The or each tube may have an elongate cross section the tube being positioned with the elongate dimension extending generally between the air inlet and the air outlet surface. Preferably, a heat exchanger has first and second such cores the cores being mounted in a generally V configuration with the first end surfaces of the cores at the apex of the Vl . Two examples of a heat exchanger incorporating cores in accordance with the present invention are illustrated in the accompanying drawings, in which Figure 1 is a plan of one example Figure 2 is an isometric view showing a portion of an end surface of one of the heat exchanger cores shown in Figure 1 and, Figure 3 is an enlarged partial view, similar .to Figure 2, of a core of a second example. Figure 1 shows a self purging heat exchanger 10 having first, second and third cores 20,25,30 arranged in a zig zag or V patterns as viewed from the top.Air flow direction is as indicated by unnumbered arrows. Each of the cores 20, 25, 30 is formed seeFigure 2 of a plurality of fins 40 having peripheral edges 45 and at least one cooling water tube 50 of elongate cross section which extends through the fins 40. Referring once agains to Figure 1, each of the cores, 20, 25, 30 has an air inlet surface 60, an outlet surface 65, and first and second end surfaces 70, 75, all of which are defined by the peripheral edges 45. The tubes 50 are spaced from the inlet surface 60. The cores 20,25, are angularly oriented to each other in a generally V configuration with an included angle of generally between 200 and 800 for efficient cooling and space utilization. In this configuraticn, the inlet surface 60 of each core 20,25 is positioned generally at an angle between 100 and Zo with the flo of air approaching the inlet surface. The first end surfaces 70 of the cores 20 and 25 are adjacent to one another. A small gap 90 will generally be present between the first end surfaces 70 of the cores 20,25 . The gap 90 is generally sized to allow debris, but not too much air, to flow therethrough.Where there is an end core such as the third core 30, a gap co will generally he present between the frame member 95 and the first end surface 70 of the core 30. Moreover, gap 90 will generally have a size approximately equal to tat of the gap 90. Each core 20,25,3D has a pair of covers 80,8R which are substantially parallel to the tubes 50 and are connected over the edges 45 of the fins 40 which define the respective first 70 and second 75 end surfaces of the respective cores 20,25,30. In each of the cores 20,2 ,3u, the leadina edge of each tube 50 and the covers 80,85 are spaced from the inlet surface r,0 substantially the same distance in order to provide efficient cooling without excessive turbulence and also to facilitate sliding and rolling of debris toward the bottom of the tV . Fioreover, the covers, for example 80 see FIG. 2 , generally have a dimension D2 approximately equal to the dimension D1 of each tube 5C. Preferably, there are a plurality of generally equally spaced tubes 50 and the spacing, between each of the outermost tubes 50 and adjacent covers EC,84 is substantially equal to half the spacing between adjacent parallel tubes 50. In such 2 situation, the outermost tubes 50 are cooled substantially to the same degree as are any of the other tubes 50. it is also preferred that the tubes 50 and the covers 80,85 are spaced substantially the same distance from the outlet surface 65 in each of the respective cores 20,25,30 to provide efficient cooling. Turning to Figure 3, there is partially shown therein a core 20 of an alternate embodiment of the present invention. Each core has a pair of covers one of which 80 is shown,formed of a plurality of tabs 88. The tabs 88 form extensions of the nsfbeyond the respective first and second end surfaces 70,75 of the respective cores. Moreover, each tab 88 is bent over in the same direction and generally parallel to the respective tubes 50. Each of the tabs 88 generally has a tab dimension D3 approximately equal to the dimension Dl of each tube 50 and the spacings of the tabs 88 from the inlet surface 60 is substantially equal to the spacing of the tube 50 from the inlet surface 60. The covers of this example function substantially the same as the above described covers 80, 85. During operation, air approaches the heat exchanger 10 from the direction shown by the arrows inFigure 1. The air then passes through inlet surfaces 60, through air ducts formed between adjacent tubes 50 and adjacent fins 40, and then out the outlet surfaces 65.Air passing via inlet surfaces 60 adjacent the first and second end surfaces 70,75 passes through air ducts formed between respective covers 80,85, a nearest tube 50, and adjacent fins 40 and out the outlet surfaces 65. Improved heat exchanger cores provide much improved cooling of the tubes nearest the end surfaces. of the core. This, in turn, provides a larger approximately 5 in one example cooling capacity for the entire heat exchanger assembly. By spacing cover 85 from the inlet surface, cover 85 does not block air flow to the adjacent tube 50. By spacing cover 80 from the inlet surface, any debris passing through the gap 90 does not hang up thereon and is readily purged from the radiator. When, in accordance with one embodiment of the invention, there are a pair of the cores in a V configuration, and when there is a gap 90 between the pair of cores, debris is readily purged from the assembly. Such heat exchanger cores as are disclosed herein are useful as cores for radiators such as those used in vehicles, particularly earthmoving vehicles.