# Method for preparing a two component polyurethane lacquer atomisable from a pressurised container.

## Abstract
A method is described for the preparation of a two component polyurethane lacquer which is atomisable from a pressurised container e.g an aerosol can , the lacquer con sisting of i as basic lacquer component, a hydroxyl group containing copolymer of specified composition, dissolved in an organic solvent, which is contained together with a specified propellant in a first pressurised container and ii as hardener component, a polyisocyanate of specified NCO group content, dissolved in an organic solvent, which is con tained together with a specified propellant in a second pres surised container. The ready for use lacquer is obtained by transferring the contents of one pressurised container into the contents of the other pressurised container and mixing the two components together. The individual components in their separate pressurised containers are storage stable for at least one year and the mixture of the two components is sprayable for a period of up to 2 3 days.

## Claims
WE CLAIM 1. Method for the preparation of a product, atomisable from a pressurised atomising container, which is a two component polyurethane lacquer in which a prepolymer comprising a copolymer containing 1 to 7 wt. of hydroxyl groups based upon styrene, vinyl toluene, methacrylic acid esters and or acrylic acid esters with 1 to 8 carbon atoms in the alcohol residue as well as hydroxyalkyl acrylates and or methacrylates with 2 to 4 carbon atoms in the alcohol residue, or mixtures of such copolymers, as the first component, which may contain also inorganic and or organic pigments, flow agents, anti settling agents, thixotropic agents, reaction accelerators, matting agents and other addit ives, is dissolved in an organic solvent and is filled together with a propellant into a first pressurised container and in which furthermore a hardener based upon a polyisocyanate containing 10 to 25 wt O NCO groups, dissolved in an organic solvent, is filled as second component together with a propellant into a second pressurised container, and wherein for prepar ation of the ready for use lacquer the one component is transferred from its pressurised container into the pressurised container of the other component and mixed with the said other component, characterised in that i for a prepolymer containing up to 2 wit. hydroxyl groups there is used as propellant propane, butane, monofluorotrichloromethane, difluorodichloromethane, dimethyl ether, nitrogen or mixtures thereof and for a prepolymer with more than 2 wt. hydroxyl groups there is used as propellant dimethyl ether or a mixture of dimethyl ether, propane, and or butane, ii for the hardener, nitrogen is used as propellant, and iii the amounts of the prepolymer present in the first pressurised container and of the polyisocyanate present in the second pressurised container are so proportioned that on combination of the two components a mixture results which contains 60 to 96 wt. t prepolymer and 4 to 40 wt. hardener. 2. Method according to claim 1, characterised in that a dissolved prepolymer with up to 2 wt.r hydroxyl groups is filled into the first pressurised container in an amount of 30 to 70 wt.t of the total charge and as the rest of the charge is used monofluorotrichloromethane, difluorodichloromethane or a mixture of 10 to 30 wt.ot monofluorotrichloromethane and 90 to 70 wt o difluoro dichloromethane. 3. Method according to claim 1, characterised in that a dissolved prepolymer with up to 2 wt.r o hydroxyl groups is filled into the first pressurised container in an amount of 70 to 90 wt. S of the total charge and the rest of the charge is propane. 4. Method according to claim 1, characterised in that a dissolved prepolymer with up to 2 wt.X hydroxyl groups is filled into the first pressurised container in an amount of 50 to 70 wt. of the total charge and the rest of the charge is a mixture of 15 parts by weight propane and 85 parts by weight butane. 5. Method according to claim 1, characterised in that a dissolved prepolymer with up to 7 wt.r o hydroxyl groups is filled into the first pressurised container in an amount of 40 to 60 wt,9d of the total charge and the rest of the charge is dimethyl ether. 6. Method according to claim 1, characterised in that a dissolved prepolymer with up to 7 wt. hydroxyl groups is filled into the first pressurised container in an amount of 20 to 60 wt. of the total charge, and the rest of the charge is a mixture of 15 parts by weight propane and 85 parts by weight butane in an amount of 40 to 20 wt. of the total charge and also dimethyl ether in an amount of 40 to 20 wt. of the total charge. 7. Method according to any one of claims 1 to 6, character ised in that the hardener is filled into the second pressurised container at such a pressure that the pressure in the second pressurised container is greater than the pressure in the first pressurised container containing the prepolymer. 8. Method according to any one of claims 1 to 7, character ised in that the prepolymer is filled into the first pressurised container at such a pressure that the pressure in the first pressurised container amounts to 3 to 5 bar at 200C and that the hardener is filled into the second pressurised container at such a pressure that the pressure in the second pressurised container amounts to 12 bar at 200C.

## Description
METHOD FOR PREPARING A TWO COMPONENT POLYURETHANE LACQUER ATOMISABLE FROM A PRESSURISED CONTAINER. The invention concerns a method for the preparation of a two component polyurethane lacquer atomisable from a pressurised container, the lacquer consisting of i a basic lacquer component in the form of a prepolymer containing hydroxyl groups which is dissolved in an organic solvent and is contained together with a propellant in a first pressurised container, and ii a hardener component on the basis of a polyisocyanate dissolved in an organic solvent which together with a propellant is contained in a second pressurised container, and the lacquer being obtainable in ready foruse form by transfer of one component from its pressurised container into the pressurised container of the second component and mixing the two components. Two component polyurethane lacquers are characterised by good weather resistance and chemical resistance, high mechanical resistance and good adhesion to the substrate. They are excellently suited, therefore, both for a first coat and as a repair lacquer and they can in the second case also be applied over old onecomponent coatings. High quality two component polyurethane lacquers have been applied up to the present time only with the spray gun an aerosol product is not available.A two component polyurethane adhesive is already known from US Patent 3343718, according to which a base component from adipic acid and hexane triol together with a propellant propane is contained in a first pressurised container and a hardener component consisting of a polyisocyanate together with a propellant a mixture of monofluorotrichloromethane and difluorodichloromethane is contained in a second pressurised container, and the ready for use adhesive is obtained when one component is transferred from its pressurised container into the pressurised container of the second component and both components are mixed however, this principle cannot be adapted as it stands to two component polyurethane lacquers, such as are known for example fromGerman Auslegeschrift 1247006.The prepolymers used as the basic lacquer components are poorly compatible with the common propellants such as monofluorotrichloromethane Rll , difluorodichloromethane R12 , propane, butane, etc.In many cases before, but at the latest after, the addition of the isocyanate hardener, insoluble products are formed in the form of sludge or lumps, so that the lacquer can no longer be applied. Some prepolymers are known which are compatible with the common propellants, but these prepolymers give coating films whic do not have adequate surface hardness, chemical resistance and solvent resistance. All hitherto known attempts to make available twocomponent polyurethane lacquers in pressurised containers, such as aerosol cans, have remained unsuccessful up to now, because both the individual components in separate pressurised containers as well as the mixture of the two components in a single aerosol can had an inadequate storage stability for all practical purposes. Hence there was the problem of making available a two component polyurethane lacquer which not only has good application and film properties such as good weather resistance, chemical resistance, resistance to mechanical stress, good adhesion to other polyurethane lacquers, insensitivity of the film towards atmospheric moisture as well as traces of grease and oils, and rapid hardening to avoid dust settlement, but also is compatible with propellants, the components of which are capable of being stored for a long period of time separately in their own pressurised containers and which, after the two components have been mixed, has a storage stability adequate for practical use. According to this invention this problem has been solved with a method for the preparation of a twocomponent polyurethane lacquer in which a prepolymer comprising a copolymer containing 1 to 7 wt. of hydroxyl groups based upon styrene, vinyltoluene, methacrylic acid esters and or acrylic acid esters with 1 to 8 carbon atoms in the alcohol residue as well as hydroxyalkyl acrylates and or hydroxyalkyl methacrylates with 2 to 4 carbon atoms in the alcohol residue, or mixtures of such copolymers, as the first component, which may contain also inorganic and or organic pigments, flow agents, anti settling agents, thixotropic agents, reaction accelerators, matting agents and other additives, is dissolved in an organic solvent and is filled together with a propellant into a first pressurised container and in which furthermore a hardener based upon a polyisocyanate containing 10 to 25 wt. S NCO groups, dissolved in an organic solvent, is filled as second component together with a propellant into a second pressurised container, and wherein for preparation of the ready foruse lacquer the one component is transferred from its pressurised container into the pressurised container of the other component and mixed with the said other component, characterised in that i for a prepolymer containing up to 2 wt. hydroxyl groups there is used as propellant propane, butane, monofluorotrichloromethane, difluorodichloromethane, dimethyl ether, nitrogen or mixtures thereof and for a prepolymer containing more than 2 wt. hydroxyl groups there is used as propellant dimethyl ether or a mixture of dimethyl ether, propane and ar butane, ii for the hardener, nitrogen is used as propellant, and iii the amounts of the prepolymer present in the first pressurised container and of the polyisocyanate present in the second pressurised container are so proportioned that on combination of the two components a mixture results which contains 60 to 96 wt. prepolymer and 4 to 40 wt.X hardener. Surprisingly it has been found that the twocomponent polyurethane lacquer propellant combinations defined above are stable for at least a year in respect of the basic lacquer component and the hardener component in separate pressurised containers, whilst the mixture of the two components in a single pressurised container is still sprayable after 2 to 3 days. In distinction from the state of the art, this substantial increase in the application time of the two component aerosol lacquers ensures their usefulness under all usual practical conditions. The basic lacquer component contains as prepolymer a copolymer of styrene and or vinyltoluene, esters of methacrylic acid and or acrylic acid with 1 to 8 carbon atoms in the alcohol residue as well as hydroxyalkyl acrylates and or hydroxyalkyl methacrylates with 2 to 4 carbon atoms in the alcohol residue. Examples of such prepolymers are copolymers of 1. Methyl methacrylate, ethyl methacrylate or isobutyl methacrylate and hydroxyethyl or hydroxypropyl or hydroxybutyl acrylate and or the corresponding hydroxyalkyl methacrylates 2. Styrene and hydroxyethyl or hydroxypropyl or hydroxybutyl acrylate and or the corresponding hydroxyalkyl methacrylates and 3. Vinyltoluene and the hydroxyalkyl acrylates and or methacrylates mentioned in 2. The components of the copolymers are selected in such a way that the final copolymer contains 1 to 7 wit., preferably 1.3 to 6 wt. of hydroxyl groups. Frequently it is desirable to make the copolymers more elastic than is the case with the above examples 1 to 3. For this purpose one can replace the so called hard monomers methyl methacrylate, styrene and vinyltoluene by up to 50 wt. of methyl acrylate, ethyl acrylate, butyl acrylate or 2 ethylhexyl acrylate. Such copolymers may for example have the following monomer composition 40 60 wt.34 styrene, vinyltoluene or methyl methacryl ate. 10 50 wt. hydroxyethyl acrylate, hydroxypropyl acrylate or the corresponding methacryl ates and 10 50 wt. methyl acrylate, ethyl acrylate, butyl acrylate and or 2 ethylhexyl acrylate. The preparation of such copolymers is described in German Auslegeschrift 1247006. The prepolymer as a rule is dissolved in an organic solvent or solvent mixture. Suitable solvents are toluene, xylene, higher boiling aromatic hydrocarbons and their mixtures, acetic acid esters, ketones such as methylethyl ketone or methylisobutyl ketone, ester ethers such as 2 methoxyethyl acetate and 2 ethoxyethyl acetate and mixtures of them. Methylisobutyl ketone and 2 ethoxyethyl acetate have proved to be especially advantageous solvents. The concentration of the prepolymer in the solution depends upon the viscosity of the solution. The solution should not be too thin since then the film formation of the lacquer is inadequate and the lacquer readily sags it should also, however, not be too viscous because then adequate atomisation is not achieved but more or less large drops are formed.In general a concentration of 50 to 60 wt. pre polymer in the solution, or of 30 to 60 wt. including the solvents from the lacquer recipe, gives a satisfactory application. Inorganic or organic pigments may be dispersed in the solution of the prepolymer. Examples of inorganic pigments are titanium dioxide, iron III oxide iron oxide red , iron II,III oxide iron oxide black , barium sulphate, lead chromate and silica examples of organic pigments are phthalocyanines, Heliofast Black Bayer AG ,Permanent Yellow and Permanent Red. The pigments may be used singly or in the form of mixtures. The pigment content in the prepolymer solution may amount to 20 to 45 wit. . In addition to pigments, the usual flow agents, anti settling agents, thixotropic agents, accelerators, matting agents and other additives may be contained in the basic lacquer component. The prepolymer solution forming the basic lacquer component, which may also contain the abovementioned pigments and additives, is filled into an aerosol pressurised container in the form of a spray can, into which the propellant is introduced by known methods.With prepolymers which contain 1 to 2 wt. hydroxyl groups, propane, butane, monofluorotrichloromethane Rll difluorodichloromethane R12 , dimethyl ether, nitrogen or mixtures thereof are used as propellant These propellants are also compatible with the reaction mixture of basic lacquer component and hardener component. If the prepolymer of the basic lacquer component contains more than 2 wt. Ohydroxyl groups, it is no longer compatible with all the propellants mentioned above in this case, the best propellant is dimethyl ether. A mixture of dimethyl ether and propane butane may also be used. The filling ratio of the basic lacquer component to the propellant depends on the propellant selected and the viscosity of the mixture of prepolyrner and propellant.The amount of propellant must be enough to ensure complete emptying of the lacquer from the aerosol can. As the basic lacquer component may consist of various prepolymers with different properties, and many combinations of propellants are possible, no guide values can be given for the filling ratio of basic lacquer component and the particular propellant selected can be determined very quickly by simple spray tests. The following filling ratios serve as an indication 30 70 wt. basic lacquer component with 1 to 2 wt. hydroxyl groups 70 30 wt. Rll 12 1090 or Rll 12 3070 70 90 wt. basic lacquer component with 1 to 2 wt. hydroxyl groups 30 10 wt. propane 50 70 wt. basic lacquer component with 1 to 2 wt. hydroxyl groups 50 30 wt. propane butane 10 85 40 70 wt.9t0 basic lacquer component with 1 to 7 wt. o hydroxyl groups 60 30 wt. dimethyl ether 20 60 wt. basic lacquer component with 1 to 7 wt. hydroxyl groups 40 20 wt. propane butane 15 85 40 20 wt.o o dimethyl ether The two first figures of the four figure number give the percentage content of Rll, the two last figures give the percentage content of R12 in the propellant mixture. The number before the oblique gives the parts by weight of propane, the number after the oblique gives the parts by weight of butane in the propellant mixture. The operating pressure with normal aerosol cans 0 amounts to about 3 to 5 bar at 20 C this gives an average working pressure on atomisation of 2.5 to 3 bar. The hardener component of the two component polyurethane lacquer consists of polyisocyanates containing 10 to 25 wt. isocyanate groups, dissolved in organic solvents.The polyfunctional isocyanates may be aliphatic or aromatic isocyanates. As hardener component, a reaction product of 3 mol. isophorone diisocyanate and 1 mol. trimethylolpropane with 15 to 16.5 wt. NCO groups, a reaction product of 3 mol. toluylene diisocyanate and 1 mol. trimethylolpropane with about 17 wt. of NC0 groups, and an aliphatic triisocyanate containing biuret groups with about 21 wt. NCO groups which is obtained by reaction of 3 mol. hexamethylene diisocyanate with 1 mol. water, have proved to be especially advantageous. The polyfunctional isocyanate is dissolved in an organic solvent. Suitable solvents are glycol esters of acetic acid and aromatic hydrocarbons. The concentration of the isocyanate in the solvent amounts suitably to 50 to 75 wt. . The isocyanate solution is filled into a pressurised container e.g. a pressure can with an overflow valve into which nitrogen is then filled as propellant gas. The filling ratio of isocyanate solution to nitrogen is not critical the amount of nitrogen must be enough in order to empty the isocyanate solution from the pressurised container completely and to reach a final pressure which is higher than the filling pressure of the can containing the basic lacquer component. For normal pressure atomiser cans, with a permissible internal pressure of 20 bar at 500C, the pressure amounts to about 12 bar at 200C. With the separate storage of the basic lacquer component and the hardener component in their separate cans, the components are storage stable for about a year. To obtain a ready for use lacquer the hardener component is transferred to the spray can containing the basic lacquer component. This filling is carried out by connecting the overflow valve of the pressurised container containing the hardener with a combined filling and atomisation valve on the spray can containing the basic lacquer component. As the pressurised container containing the hardener is at a higher pressure than is the case with the spray can containing the basic lacquer component, the nitrogen drives the hardener solution into the spray can. After completion of this filling the two lacquer components are mixed with one another by shaking the spray can.The lacquer is then ready for use and can be sprayed. The storage stability of the lacquer containing the hardener amounts to at least 24 hours, often 48 to 72 hours. The mixing ratio of the basic lacquer component to the hardener component is so selected that the ratio of the hydroxyl groups in the prepolymer to the NCO groups in the polyfunctional isocyanate hardener is in the range 1 0.8 to 1 1.25. Prepolymers which contain 1.3 to 4 wt.s o OH groups, and which are combined with a polyfunctional isocyanate containing 10 to 25 wt. NCO groups in such amounts that for every OH group there are 1.0 to 1.25 NCOgroups, give lacquers which yield films having good surface hardness and good resistance to solvents.If prepolymers with 4.1 to 6 wt. OH groups are combined with polyfunctional isocyanates containing 10 to 25 wt. NCOgroups in such amounts that there are 1.0 to 1.25 NCO groups for each hydroxyl group, then lacquers are obtained which give films with good surface hardness, abrasion resistance and good resistance to chemicals. In order to obtain a ready for use lacquer by simple mixing of the basic lacquer component with the hardener component in the spray can, the amount of the prepolymer in the spray can and the amount of isocyanate hardener present in the second pressure container are so proportioned that on combining the two components a mixture is formed which contains 60 to 96 wt. prepolymer containing hydroxyl groups and 4 to 40 wt. of polyfunctional isocyanate, both figures being based on the solids composition of the mixture. The coatings described dry after atomisation from the spray can to be assembly resistant in about 90 to 100 minutes and they then crosslink at room temperature in one to seven days. Full strength properties are attained after about seven days. The lacquer films have good weather resistance and chemical resistance which increase with increasing content of hydroxyl groups in the prepolymer. They have a high degree of mechanical serviceability, have good adhesion on one and two component coatings and do not show, on application to one component coatings, any lifting of these coatings. On application the two component polyurethane lacquers are not sensitive to air currents, atmospheric moisture or traces of grease and oil on the substrate. Since they dry rapidly, dirt formation due to dust is largely avoided. No stringent requirements are placed on the pretreatment of the substrate for old coatings it is good enough to rub down lightly and clean.Due to the rapid drying, the good filling power and the freedom from sagging or running of the applied lacquer, many defects of the substrate are covered over. The invention is illustrated by the followingExamples but is not, however, limited thereby. EXAMPLE 1Two component white, silk aerosol lacquer.Basic lacquer component The starting material for the basic lacquer component was a 60 solution in xylene and butyl acetate of a prepolymer of 11 wt. hydroxyethyl methacrylate 35 wt. styrene 15 wt. vinyltoluene 19 wt. t 0 butyl acrylate and 20 wt. 2 ethylhexyl acrylate. The 60 solution of the prepolymer contained 1.36 wt. hydroxyl groups and a 50 solution of the prepolymer had a viscosity of about 90 sec efflux time, measured in the DIN cup with an efflux nozzle of 4mm diameter at 200C. 40 g of the 60 solution was ground with 42 g of a pigment mixture of titanium dioxide and barium sulphate on a roller mill, thinned with the solvents mentioned to a solids content of ca. 66 wt. and filled into the first spray can. Then an equal amount by weight of Rll 12 1090 as propellant was filled into the spray can. The product had a storage stability of at least one year.Hardener Component 7 g of a 67 solution of an aromatic triisocyanate on the basis of 1 mol. trimethylolpropane and 3 mol. toluylene diisocyanate with a NCO content of about 17 wt. , based on the solvent free product, in 2 ethoxyethyl acetate xylene 1 1 by weight was filled into a second pressurised container, which was then filled with nitrogen as propellant up to 10 to 12 bar pressure at 2OOC The product had a storage stability of at least one year.Two component aerosol mixture The contents of the second pressurised container hardener component were emptied into the first pressurised container spray can and mixed with the basic lacquer component by shaking. The mixture could be sprayed and applied satisfactorily for up to 72 hours after preparation. It gave a white, silky lacquer film with all the properties of a high quality two component polyurethane lacquer. EXAMPLE 2Two component yellow oranqe, qlossy aerosol lacquerBasic lacquer component The starting material for the basic lacquer component was a 601 0 solution in 2 ethoxyethyl acetate of a prepolymer of 11 wt. hydroxyethyl methacrylate 35 wt. styrene 15 wt. vinyltoluene 19 wt. butyl acrylate and 20 wt. 54 2 ethylhexyl acrylate The 60 solution of the prepolymer contained 1.36 wt. hydroxyl groups and a 50 solution of the prepolymer had a viscosity of about 90 sec efflux time, measured in the DIN cup with an efflux nozzle of 4mm diameter at 200C. 46 g of the solution of the prepolymer was ground on a roller mill with a pigment mixture ofPermanent Yellow, lead chromate and silica, thinned with the given solvent to a solids content of about 55 wt. and filled into a spray can. The same amount by weight ofR11 12 3070 was filled in as propellant. The product was storage stable for at least one year.Hardener component 11 g of a 75 solution of an aliphatic triisocyanate containing biuret groups, which was obtained by reaction of 3 mol. hexamethylene diisocyanate and 1 mol.water and had a NCO content of about 21 wt. based on the solvent free product, was filled into a second pressurised container which was then filled up with nitrogen to a 0 pressure of about 10 to 12 bar at. 20 C. The product was storage stable for at least one year.Two component aerosol mixture The contents of the second pressurised container were combined with the basic lacquer component in the first pressurised container as in Example 1. The mixture could be sprayed and applied satisfactorily for up to 72 hours after preparation. It gave a yellow orange coloured glossy lacquer film with the properties of a high quality two component polyurethane lacquer. In the preceding Examples low crosslinking lacquers are described. The following Examples illustrate high crosslinking lacquers. EXAMPLE 3Two component olive qreen, matt aerosol lacquerBasic lacquer component As prepolymer was used a copolymer of 49 wt. hydroxypropyl methacrylate 11 wt. methyl methacrylate 40 wt. styrene The 60 solution of the prepolymer contained 5.8 wt. hydroxyl groups and a 50 fc, solution in 2 ethoxyethyl acetate had a viscosity of 160 sec measured in the 0DIN cup with an efflux nozzle of 4 mm diameter at 20 C. 34 g of the 60 solution of this prepolymer in 2 ethoxyethyl acetate was ground in a roller mill with 43 g of a pigment mixture of iron oxide red, iron oxide yellow, chromic oxide, Heliofast Black and barium sulphate, thinned with 23 g of the solvent mentioned and filled into a spray can. To 70 wt. of this basic lacquer component, 30 wt. of dimethyl ether was then added as propellant.The storage stability of the product amounted to at least one year.Hardener component The hardener component consisted of 20 g of a 75 solution of an aliphatic triisocyanate containing biuret groups which is obtained by reaction of 3 mol.hexamethylene diisocyanate and 1 mol. water and contains about 21 NCO groups. The hardener was contained with nitrogen as propellant in a second pressurised container with a filling pressure of about 10 to 12 bar at 200C and had a storage stability of at least one year.Two component aerosol mixture By combining the basic lacquer component and the hardener component in a spray can a lacquer was obtained which was sprayable at room temperature for up to 48 hours and gave a lacquer film with the properties of a twocomponent polyurethane lacquer. EXAMPLE 4Two component liqht ivory, silk aerosol lacquerBasic lacquer component The prepolymer was obtained from 49 wt. hydroxypropyl methacrylate 11 wt.z methyl methacrylate and 40 wt. styrene The 60 solution of the prepolymer contained 5.8 wt.o hydroxyl groups and a 50 0 solution in 2 ethoxyethyl acetate had a viscosity of 160 sec measured in the DIN cup with an efflux nozzle of 4 mm diameter at 200C. 40 g of the 60 o solution of this prepolymer in 2 ethoxyethyl acetate were ground in a roller mill with 36 g of a pigment mixture of titanium dioxide, iron oxide yellow, iron oxide red and barium sulphate.After thinning with 24 g of the given solvents 70 wt. of the basic lacquer component and 30 wt.s o of dimethyl ether as propellant were filled into a spray can. The product had a storage stability of at least one year.Hardener component The hardener component consisted of 25 g of the product described in Example 3.Two component aerosol mixture The ready for use lacquer was obtained as described in Example 3 and could be applied for up to 48 hours. The lacquer film thus obtained had all the properties of a high quality two component polyurethane lacquer. S EXAMPLE 5Two component liqht qreen, high qloss aerosol lacquer 54 g of a 60 o solution of the prepolymer described in Example 4 in 2 ethoxyethyl acetate was ground with 21 g of a pigment mixture of titanium dioxide and phthalocyanine green on a roller mill, thinned with 25 g of the given solvents and filled into a spray can. To 70 wt. of this basic lacquer component was added 30 wt. of dimethyl ether as propellant. The mixture had a storage stability of at least one year. As hardener was used the one described inExample 3 of which 33 g were filled into a second pressurised container with nitrogen as propellant. The lacquer obtained by combining the two components in the spray can was sprayable at room temperature for up to 48 hours and gave lacquer films with all the properties of a high quality two component polyurethane lacquer.