# Dental appliance and method of manufacture.

## Abstract
A tooth crown or the like dental appliance made of a fired ceramic which undergoes substantially no shrinkage when fired, the appliance being made by forming a compact of the raw pre fired ceramic with an undersurface shaped for a precise fit onto the prepared tooth on which the appliance is to be used, and thereafter firing the compact to dense, hard monolithic structure.

## Claims
What is claimed is 1, A method for making a dental appliance adapted to be secured to a natural tooth after the natural tooth has been prepared, by removing portions tHereof, for reception of the appliance, said method comprising the steps of forming a compact of a raw particulate shrink free ceramic to provide said compact with a recess as an undersurface and with an upper surface which at least approximates the shape of the natural tooth prior to preparation of the tooth for said appliance, said recess having a shape substantially identical to that of the tooth after its preparation for the appliance and thereafter firing said compact to a hard monolithic body substantially identical in shape and size to said compact prior to firing. 2. A method as set forth in Claim 1 wherein said fired body is coated with a veneer which simulates the appearance of the natural tooth and is then again fired to cure the veneer. 3. A method for making a dental appliance comprising the steps of preparing a die having a shape substantially identical to that of a prepared tooth to which the appliance is to be secured, forming against said die a compact of a raw particulate shrink free ceramic and thereafter firing said compact to dense monolithic structure. 4. A method as set forth in Claim 3 wherein said compact is formed against said die in a mold cavity having sad die as a wall portion thereof 5. A method for making a dental appliance to be secured to a prepared tooth comprising the steps of a. taking an impression of the prepared tooth in a body of pliant material thereby to form an impression in said body of material identical in shape to that of the prepared tooth b, molding another body of material into and against said impression thereby to form a die which is a replica of the prepared tooth c. molding a body of thermoplastic material against said die and shaping the exposed surface portions of said body of thermoplastic material to the shape desired for the external surfaces of the appliance d. shaping a body of material against the shaped body of thermoplastic material while the shaped body of thermoplastic material remains on said die, thereby to form a female mold with an internal shape identical to the external shape of the body of thermoplastic material e. applying heat to said body of thermoplastic material to cause its removal from said die and female mold thereby to provide a mold cavity between said die and female mold f. forming a body of particulate raw shrinkfree ceramic in said mold cavity thereby to form a compact of said raw shrink free ceramic having as an undersurface a recess of a shape identical to that of the die and having an upper surface of a shape identical to that of the female mold and g. thereafter firing said compact to a hard monolithic ceramic body of a shape and size substantially identical to the shape and size of said compact prior to said firing. 6, A dental appliance adapted to be secured to a prepared tooth, said appliance comprising a hard monolithic body of shrinkvfree ceramic having a surface portion in the form of a recess shaped for a substantially perfect fit onto the prepared tooth. 7, A dental appliance as set forth in Claim 6 wherein surface portions of said body other than those of the recess are coated with a veneer which simulates natural tooth appearance and which has a coefficient of thermal expansion which at least approximates that of said body.

## Description
DENTz APPLIANCE AND METHOD OF MANUFACTURE TECHNICAL FIELD This invention relates to a method for the fabrication of dental appliances such as crowns, bridges and the like, and to dental appliances made by such method. For simplicity, the invention and its background will herein be principally with reference to tooth crowns and their manufacture, though it will be understood that the invention has application to other dental appliances such, for example, as dental bridges. BACKGROUND ART A dental crown is one of the most important restorations in dentistry in that it affords the restoration of deteriorated teeth to a state of health and function. One of the prime requisites for a successful dental crown is that it adapt as perfectly as possible to the prepared tooth structure i.e. the tooth is milled to a desired shape upon which the dental crown is placed . Anything less than substantially perfect fit, especially at the crown margin, can result in mechanical failure such as crown fracture or loosening or biologic failure such as decay, periodontal disease, or occlusal problems. At the present state of the art the materials available for the fabrication of crowns include the noble metals such as gold base alloys, acrylics such as polymethyl methacrylate, dental porcelain, or a composite of a metal and a compatible porcelain or acrylic. At the present date the most widely employed method of fabricating dental crowns is to cast a metal substrate which is subsequently covered with a dental porcelain veneer. The metal substrate is obtained by an indirect process known as the lost wax technique. Specifically, the substrate is first formed and shaped in wax. This involves making an impression of the prepared tooth, casting dental stone against the impression to form a master die, molding a body of wax against the master die and then shaping the upper portions of the wax body to duplicate the external shape of the tooth crown desired.The wax form must then be accurately converted to the metal. To accomplish this the wax form is invested into a refractory material, thus forming a mold. The wax is then eliminated by melting or burning, thus creating a cavity into which the metal, heated to a molten state, is cast. Hence, the wall of the cavity intended to be an exact replica of the prepared tooth can suffer inaccuracies because of the three step technique needed to prepare it preparation of the master die, preparation of the wax form from the master die, and preparation of the mold from the wax form. This renders the process technique sensitive. The process is even further technique sensitive in that each metal alloy possesses a specific casting shrinkage for which there must be accurate compensation.This compensation is critically dependent upon the proper selection and skillful manipulation of all materials employed. The technique is sensitive in that failure can occur at any of the numerous steps involved, such as distortion of the wax form, improper investing procedure, inadequate expansion of the mold, improper burn out procedure, or improper melting and casting of the metal. A principal drawback of this technique is that many hours are consumed before a failure in the casting stage can be detected.The success or failure of the composite ceramic metal crown is also greatly dependent on the proper finishing and handling of the surface of the metal to which the ceramic is applied. Proper finishing which is difficult and time consuming, is essential to the successful bonding of the ceramic to the metal substrate. Still further, the inherent physical differences between the porcelain veneer and the metal substrate, such as differences in thermal expansion, give rise to numerous potential avenues for failure. An alternative technique, which eliminates the need for a metal casting, is to form the crown of a dental porcelain with a thin underlayer of platinum foil. The thin platinum foil is carefully shaped to a replica of the prepared tooth and the dental porcelain is then overlaid onto the foil which supports the porcelain during the subsequent firing cycles necessary.This procedure is extremely technique sensitive, requiring skillful and meticulous processing. Proper and accurate shaping of the platinum foil over the replica is extremely difficult and frequently leads to poorly fitted crowns. Additional problems of fit arise due to the shrinkage of the dental procelain which often distorts the thin platinum matrix during firing.It is therefore more difficult to obtain the desired fit with this crown as compared to the cast metal porcelain composite. DISCLOSURE OF THE INVENTION The present invention provides a dental appliance which has exzellent strength, durability, density, appearance and fit but yet which can be made at relatively low cost both by reason of the material used and, even more significantly, by reason of simplified processing. In accordance with the invention, the tooth crown or other dental appliance has a tooth engaging substrate formed of a shrink free ceramic. Where, as is generally the case, it is desired that the appliance have greater translucence and closer color match to that of the natural tooth, the substrate is coated on its outer surfaces with a porcelain or glaze veneer having the whiteness and degree of translucency desired. A preferred shrink free ceramic for the practice of the invention will be described in detail hereinafter however, suffice it to say at this point that by the term shrink free ceramic is meant a ceramic made from a ceramic powder formulation which, when compacted and then fired to maturity, converts to a dense, hard, monolithic body which has substantially the same volume and shape as were the volume and shape of the ceramic ponder compact prior to firing. Because the ceramic does not undergo shrinkage when fired to maturity, i.e. to high strength and hardness, the.powder compact can, prior to firing, be formed to the identical size and shape desired for the crown or other appliance with complete assurance of the required perfect fit to the prepared tooth to which it is to be secured. And because the ceramic powder can be readily molded at relatively low temperature into a compact of any desired shape and with the resulting compact itself being relatively soft such that portions thereof can be easily removed for any further shaping as might be required, the invention provides much simplified processing for dental crowns or other appliances having the required perfect fit along with high strength and all other desired characteristics. Fundamentally, the method of the present invention involves only three essential steps, namely 1 preparation of a die which is an exact replica of the prepared tooth to which the crown or other dental appliance is to be fitted 2 molding or otherwise forming a compact of the raw particulate shrink free ceramic against the die and simultaneously, or thereafter, shaping the remaining surface portions of the compact to the shape and size desired for the appliance and 3 firing the so shaped compact to its maturing temperature. As a last step, generally necessary for purposes.of matching the appearance of the natural tooth, the fired shrink free ceramic substrate, so manufactured, is coated with a suitable porcelain veneer or glaze thereby completing preparation of the appliance which is thereafter secured to the prepared tooth. As will be discussed in greater detail hereinafter, the first step that of preparing the die can be accomplished by the technique currently and for many years used for preparation of the master dies for making dental crowns and other appliances by the prior art methods such as those described above. Then, a mpld is prepared with the die as a wall portion thereof. To this end wax which can be a wax such as paraffin or some other thermoplastic such as an acrylic or other synthetic thermoplastic polymer can be molded against the die, after which the remaining surfaces of the resultant wax body can be shaped to duplicate the external crown shape desired. Dental stone or the like is then cast against the wax body thereby to form a mold in which the die itself serves as the mold wall intended to be an exact replica of the prepared tooth. Mold preparation is completed by melting or burning out the wax or other thermoplastic material.Such mold is then used for shaping the shrink free ceramic to the crown shape desired. Hence, the surface portion of the crown which fits against the prepared tooth is formed by shaping it against the die itself rather than against a mold wall prepared from a wax body shaped by molding the wax against the die. This process simplification greatly increases the closeness and accuracy of fit of the crown to the prepared tooth and it is enabled by the fact that the shrink free ceramic can be shaped at low temperature, as compared with the temperatures required for casting metal. In the preferred method as just described, the entire final shape of the shrink free ceramic compact is accomplished simultaneously with the shaping of that portion of the compact which, after firing, is to fit against the prepared tooth. However, it is within the purview of the invention to form the non tooth engaging portions of the compact to the final desired shape subsequent to forming the compact against the die. That is, the wax body formed against the die can, if desired, be shaped on its external surfaces only roughly to the external shape desired of the compact, leaving it for further and final shaping of such surfaces of the compact after it has been molded. As has already been mentioned, such final shaping of the powder compact is relatively simple, since the compact is quite soft prior to firing. The above and other features and advantages of the invention will appear more clearly from detailed description of preferred embodiments which follows. BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS FIGURE 1 is a flowchart showing steps involved in the practice of a preferred embodiment of the invention FIGURE 2 is schematic view of molding apparatus for practice of the preferred embodiment and FIGURE 3 is a cross sectional view of a dental appliance embodying and fabricated by the method of the present invention. BEST MODE FOR CARRYING OUT THE INVENTION As has already been made clear, a key feature of the present invention is the use of shrink free ceramic as the material for the dental appliance substrate. Various shrink free ceramics have been proposed for use as industrial ceramics but before further discussing them, it is appropriate to mention briefly some of the characteristics of more conventional ceramics and their manufacture. Conventional ceramic bodies, typically alumina ceramics, are manufactured by forming a raw batch of the desired ceramic ingredients in particulate form, e.g.aluminum oxide plus a binder, molding or otherwise forming the raw batch into a compacted body, and then firing the compacted body to sinter or vitrify the ceramic. During the firing operation there is considerable shrinkage generally from about 10E to 20which means that the compact must be made larger than the desired fired body. Also, because shrinkage is never exactly uniform throughout the body, there is always a certain amount of warpage or distortion though with good quality control it is generally possible to maintain warpage or distortion within the bounds of normal tolerances for electrical insulators, mechanical components and the like industrial ceramic bodies. Shrinkage occurs for one of a combination of two reasons. First, no matter that even high pressure is used to mold or otherwise form the compact, the density of the compact is not as high as theoretically possible there is always come porosity to the end that there is some shrinkage when the compact fires to a high density non porous monolith. The use of an organic binder in the compact, which is generally desirable to add green strength,may contribute to the porosity of the compact since it is vaporized or burned out during the subsequent firing operation to mature the ceramic to dense monolithic structure. Secondly where the ceramic ingredients undergo chemical or crystalline transformation durinc the firing, if the ceramic formed is of greater density and lesser volume than the raw ceramic ingredients, then this also contributes to the shrinkage. Generally, reason 1 cannot be entirely eliminated even for the manufacture of shrink free ceramic bodies. However, in the case of most shrinkfree ceramic bodies, the formulation of raw particulate ceramic ingredients is one wherein one or more of the ingredients undergo either chemical or crystalline transformation during the firing and with the resultant ceramic formed by way of the chemical or crystalline transformation occupying a greater volume than that of the raw ingredients, to the end that this increase in volume exactly compensates for the decrease in volume caused by reason 1 . Hence, for example, it is known that kyanite converts to mullite and silica upon firing, the combined volumes of the mullite and silica being greater than the volume of the kyanite.Accordingly, it is known to formulate a ceramic batch of kyanite, generally along with other ceramic ingredients, the amount of kyanite being such as to produce, during firing, a volume increase sufficient to compensate for the shrinkage which would otherwise occur by reason of the inclusion of binder and the relatively high porosity of the compact prior to firing.Various and diverse examples of shrink free ceramics are discussed in the article entitled PorcelainsHaving Low Firing Shrinkage , Volume 43, No. 5 1964 Ceramic Bulletin of the American Ceramic Society.United States Patent 3,549,393 Elarde also discloses such ceramics. In addition to being shrink free, the ceramic used in the practice of the invention should have high flexural strength preferably above 15,000 psi , high compressive strength preferably above 50,000 psi , low porosity and commensurately high density preferably above 80 of the theoretically highest density possible for the ceramic used , and a low coefficient of thermal expansion preferably below 8.0 x 10 6O C . The preferred shrink free ceramic, and processing thereof, for the practice of the present invention is that set forth in United States PatentApplication P 400 in the names of Lynn B. Starling,James E. Stephan, and Robert D. Stroud, filed concurrently herewith. Such shrink free ceramic body utilizes the fact that when aluminum oxide and magnesium oxide combine, during firing, to form magnesium alumina spinel MgO A1203 there is a volume increase. Also, in this preferred shrink free ceramic the binder used is a silicone resin containing a high percentage upwards of about 50 by weight SiO groups to the end that upon binder burnout during firing, a major portion thereof remains in the resulting ceramic body as silica or silicate. The following is the most preferred batch formulation for such shrink free ceramic A12O3 particle size, .4 to 100 grams 10 microns average 2.5 microns Awl 203 325 mesh, Tyler 40 grams Bao sio2 A1203 glass 30 grams 53 BaO, 42 SiO2, 5 A1203 MgO 200 mesh, Tyler 20 gramsEdgar plastic kaolin 9 gramsCalcium stearate 2 gramsAcrawax C steryl amide wax, 2 grams melting temperature 290OF silicone resin 28 grams The variated particle size of the ceramic batch is to provide high compaction density. The calcium stearate and Accrawax function as lubricants during the compaction operation.When the above body is fired to a temperature of about 13000C, the magnesia and some of the alumina combine to form the spinel, and other of the ingredients, including silica from the silicone resin, form a glassy phase, the resultant matured body being possessed of a high density approximately 2.7g cc. , excellent physical strength flextural strength upwards of 15,000 psi compression strength upwards of 50,000 psi and a low coefficient of thermal expansion below 6.0 x 10 6O C . During the firing there is no significant shrinkage, and in this regard it is desirable to fire the ceramic on a gradual schedule, for example, by first gradually heating to about 5000C and holding the body there for about 16 hours, and thereafter gradually raising the temperature, over a period of about 9 hours, to 1300 13200C, but with substantially no hold being required at this highest firing temperature. By way of the gradual heating, escape of SiO groups from the silicone resin is inhibited to the end that substantially all of the SiO groups of the silicone resin remain in the fired body as silicate. As discussed in the aforementioned patent application filed concurrently herewith, variations from the above formulation can be used, the key ingredients in the preferred formulation being the alumina and magnesia, the glassy or glass forming ingredients to provide a glassy phase and silicone resin having a high percent of SiO groups upwards of 50 to function as the binder. It will be also understood that whereas the afore described ceramic has, to date, been found to be best and hence is most preferred, other shrinkfree formulations can be used for the practice of the invention. Reference is now made to the flowchart shown in FIGURE 1. The first step involves preparation of the die to the precise shape of the prepared tooth. This can be accomplished in the manner currently used and well known to those skilled in dental art. Briefly, the dentist prepares the tooth to be crowned by removing enough of the tooth structure to allow proper thickness of the final crown, after which the dentist secures a negative of the prepared tooth with a suitable impression material. The die is then made by molding or casting dental stone or the like into the negative. Thereafter this die is related to a model of the opposing arch upper to lower teeth on an articulator which simulates jaw movements.Where the die at this stage is of multiple teeth, the dies for the individual teeth to be crowned are then separated by fine saw blades to allow easy manipulation of the dies and then trimmed, i.e. ditched, such that the margins the exact point where the crown is to end are visible and accessible, all as well known in the dental art, Next the die, duplicative to the tooth to be crowned, is secured to form a portion of a mold for the molding of the shrink free ceramic raw batch.Reference is made to FIGURE 2 which depicts such a mold. In FIGURE 2, 10 is the die the outer surface 12 of which is duplicative of the prepared tooth to be crowned and the lower portion of which is simply a base set into an anchoring material 14, such as gypsum, within a recess in a lower mold block 16.Within a recess 18 in an upper mold block 20 is a female mold 22 the inner surface 24 of which defines, in combination with the die, the mold cavity 26 for molding the shrink free ceramic formulation. An opening 28 is provided for admission of the shrinkfree ceramic formulation into the mold and a second opening 30 is provided as a vent for the escape of air during the admission. Prior to use of the mold for molding the shrink free ceramic it is best to apply to the surface of the mold cavity a thin film of a suitable mold release agent, such as stearic acid or colloidal graphite. Cardinal to the invention is that a shrinkfree ceramic formulation be shaped against the die under sufficient pressure to assure complete conformity of the shrink free ceramic formulation to the die. It is desirable, though not essential to the practice of the invention in its broadest scope, to accomplish this by a molding operation wherein the mold shape is such that the outer surfaces of the substrate which is molded are of the final shape desired. This involves preparation of the female mold to provide such shape and this can be accomplished by the use of a lost wax technique.That is, a wax, such as paraffin, or a thermoplastic polymer such as an acrylic or the like heat softenable material is applied over the surface of the die and built up and sculptured to the external shape of the desired substrate after which a material,sch as gypsum, is cast against the wax or the like material and allowed to set to hardness. The assembly is then heated to burn out or melt out the wax, thermoplastic polymer or the like. Particularly where the mold is so prepared so as to mold the shrink free ceramic formulation to the final shape desired for the substrate, it is preferred that the molding operation be one of transfer molding, as set forth in the aforementionedPatent Application P 400 filed concurrently herewith.Briefly, the method involves the preparation of a pre form of the compacted shrink free ceramic formulation, this pre form being thereafter heated sufficiently to where it is flowable and the material thereof transferred by pressure into the mold. Just as is true of compression molding and injection molding, either of which can be used for the practice of the invention, transfer molding is broadly well known in the plastics molding art. In this regard, it should be mentioned that where the binder used in the shrinkfree ceramic formulation is a silicone resin, the overall formulation can be considered, for purposes of molding, as a highly filled organic polymer, and since silicone resin softens prior to curing, it can be either compression molded at a temperature to cause it to cure or it can be injection molded at a lower temperature at which it remains a thermoplastic. Where the preferred shrink free ceramic formulation specified above is used and is formed into a compact by molding, it is quite satisfactory to use a molding temperature of about 1500C. The molding can also be accomplished by the so called isostatic molding technique which is well known in the industrial ceramics manufacturing art and which is really more in the nature of a cold pressing operation. Briefly, isostatic molding involves the use of an elastomeric mold to which hydraulic or the like external pressure is applied thereby to compress and compact the ceramic raw batch contained therein into a self sustaining compact. As has been alluded to earlier herein, it is not necessary to the practice of the invention, in its broadest scope, to mold the shrink free ceramic formulation to the precise external shape desired for the substrate but rather it is only necessary to mold the tooth engaging portion thereof i.e. the portion molded against the die to the final desired shape. Hence, the mold surface portion depicted at 24 in FIGURE 2 need not be shaped to the precise external shape desired for the substrate. Instead, the substrate can be molded to another external shape, e.g. to only approximately the final external shape desired, and then after the molding operation, the final desired external shape can be imparted to the molded substrate as by removing portions thereof to impart the final desired shape.This is easily accomplished because the shrink free ceramic in its unfired state is quite soft, with a chalk fike consistency, and hence can be readily sculpted, Of course in all cases the sprue and any flash are best removed prior to firing. After the molding operation the molded substrate is fired to mature the ceramic as previously described. Since there is no shrinkage during the firing operation, the fired crown is of precisely the same shape and volume as prior to firing. As a last step, generally necessary to simulate the appearance of a natural tooth, a veneer is applied to the fired substrate. This involves coating the external surfaces of the substrate with a porcelain frit or glaze and then heating to cure the veneer. It will be understood that the precise composition of the veneer will depend on the whiteness and translucency desired for the crown, or other appliance, and the degree of whiteness of the substrate itself. Hence, in some instances the veneer can be a translucent glaze and in other substances, more common, it will be a white dental porcelain of the general type currently used for veneering cast metal substrates. However, in all cases it is preferred that the veneer selected have a coefficient of thermal expansion which matches or is close to that of the fired shrink free ceramic substrate. FIGURE 3 is illustrative of a crown made in accordance with the invention, the crown consisting of the shrink free ceramic substrate 32 coated with a thin veneer 34 and secured by a suitable dental cement to the prepared tooth 36. It will be understood that whereas the invention has been described in its details with reference to preferred embodiments thereof, various changes and modifications may be made all within the full and intended scope of the claims which follow.