# A container provided with antiflame outer lining for contents heating.

## Abstract
This invention relates to a container made with a sheet material formed of several connecting superimposed layers forming a unitary body, of which the inner one 1 is adapted to contact the contents, while the outer one 5 has flameproof properties, that is it is capable of transmitting heat without burning allowing thus the container contents to be heated. An intermediate layer 3 works as a support, while other layers 2,4 are optional and work as connecting elements.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A container for packing different products, even food products, and allowing the contents heating without transferring it into another container, wherein the container consists of a plurality of superimoosed layers, the inner one 1 of which meets the requirements of its contents and another layer 3 works as a support, characterised in that an outer one 5 is provided, which has flameproof properties while allowing the transmission of heat to the inner contents. 2. A container according to Claim 1, characterized in that the outer layer 5 is made by paper treated with flameproof products. 3. A container according to Claim 1, characterized in that the outer layer 5 is made by a paint having flameproof properties. 4. A container according to Claim 1, characterized in that the outer layer 5 is made by an aluminium layer. 5. A container according to any of the preceding claims characterized in that the inner layer 1 and the outer layer 5 are connected to the support layer 3 through intermediate connecting elements 2 and 4 respectively .

## Description
A CONTAINER PROVIDED WITH ANTIFLAME OUTER LINING FOR CONTENTS HEATING . This container may be of different shape and size and in addition to having the prescribed characteristics for containing food products it is externally lined with a flameproof material capable of transmitting heat, which allows the setting of the container directly on the fire, thus avoiding the use of additional conventional pots.The accompanying drawing shows by mere way of unrestrictive example sone exemplary embodiments on enlarged scale of the composite material formed of layers almost perfectly contacting one another. In case, also the provision could be made for an empty hollow space through the use of spacers. Some layers may be made of treated paper in order to have the flameproof characteristics or to meet the requirements of sanitary and hygienical provisions for containers of foodstuffs, food products, medicines and the like. Some layers could be formed of knawn paints as commercially available, or new marketed patented products.In the accompanying drawing Figs. 1 and 2 show two examples of container, the walls of which have been cut away by a section showing the composition thereof andFig. 3 is a view showing a section portion for the two containers of Figs. 1 and 2.The composite material used for making this new container is thus obtained, as unrestrictive bun demonstrative example, by coupling the elements in the order herein listed polythene sheet 1 directly contacting the general contained liquid or foodstuff aluminium sheet 2 inner support 3 made of cardboard for stiffening purpose connecting element 4 and externally flameproof layer 5, capable of transmitting heat to allow, when desired, to heat the contents or use them when they are warm, whereupon the container may be disposed of.According to an example of embodiment, the flameproof layer 5 is made by an aluminium layer connected through an adhesive 4 to a support cardboard 3. Aecording to another embodiment the aluminiun layer 5 is directly applied to the support. The flameproof layer can be made by a paperboard inpregnated by any flameproof substance which is glued or otherwise fixed to support 3. The flameproof layer 5 can be also made by a simply highly flameproof paint layer which can be directly applied to support 3 or through a connecting element 4 working as an intermediary. One or more layers which constitute the walls of the container may be replaced by paints or linings applied during manufacture.The present invention has the remarkable advantage of operating as a protective package of the contents and being also effective for heating thereof at the time of use. This avoids the transferring of the contents into another pot to bring it to the desired teperature, thus avoiding a conventional step which has the disadvantage of having to wash out the used auxiliary container.