# A process for the production of 2 substituted 6 alkoxycarbonyl 8 ethyl 5 oxo 5,8 dihydro pyrido 2,3 d pyrimidines and of corresponding free acids.

## Abstract
The invention relates to a process for the preparation of 2 substituted 6 alkoxycarbonyl 8 ethyl 5 oxo 5, 8 dihydro pyrido 2, 3, d pyrimidines and corresponding free acids, having the following general formula

## Claims
CLAIMS 1 A process for the preparation of 2 substituted G alkoxycarbonyl 8 ethyl 5 oxo 5, 8 dihydro pyrido 2,3 d7 pyrirhidines, having the general formulaEMI8.1 wherein R1 H CIJ C H 3 2 5 R2 Cl, CH3O, C2H5O, CH3OS, CH3SO2, starting from the corresponding tetrahydro derivatives, characterized in that the latter are treated under hot conditions with an oxidizing agent and in an acidic or neutral medium, so as to obtain the aforesaid compounds of formula A . 2 A process according to claim 1, characterized in that said oxidizing agent is selected among alkaline dichromates and permanganates, manganese dioxide and nitric acid. 3 A process according to claim 1, characterized in that said oxidation is carried out in medium which is neutral or made acidic by acetic acid or aqueous acetic acid. 4 A process according to claim 1, characterized in that 6 carbethoxy 8 ethyl 2 ethoxy 5 oxo 5, 8 dihydro pyrido 2, 3 d1 pyrimidine, having the formula A wherein R1 is C H and R2 is C2hl5O, starting from the corresponding tetrahydro derivative, is prepared. 5 A process according to claim 4, characterized in that the oxidation is carried out with manganese dioxide and the reaction mixture is main tained at the refluxing temperature. G A process according to claim 4, characterized in that an alkaline dichromate is used in the oxidation and the reaction mixture is maintained at a temperature of between 400C and the boiling temperature of tile solvent. 7 6 ethoxy carbonyl 8 ethyl 2 ethoxy 5 oxo 5. 8 dihydro pyrido 2, 3 d pirimidine.

## Description
A process for the production of 2 substituted 6 alkoxycarbonyl 8 ethyl 5 oxo 5, 8 dihydro pyrido 2 3 d7 pyrimidines and of corresponding free acids. The present invention relates to a novel process for the production of 2 substituted 6 alkoxycarbonyl 8 ethyl 5 oxo 5, 8 dihydro pyrido 2, 3 d7 pyrimidines and their free acids, having the following general formula EMI1.1 wherein R1 H, CH3, C2H5 2 Cl, CH3 O, C2H 5 CH 3 CH3SO2 as well as their use in the condensation with secundary amines for the preparation of compounds having a relevant bacteriostatic activity, such as the pyromidic and the pipemidic acids.As a matter of fact, the compounds of the class A constitute, as it is known from the prior art, useful intermediates for the production of the afore said acids and the several processes, as used up to date for their production, consisted in reacting the corresponding 5, 6, 7, 8 tetrahydroderivatives with a halogen, preferably bromine, a in the elimination of a molecule of the corresponding hydrogen halide by means of a tertiary amino base, preferably triethylamine.According to further suggested processes, the used of quinone reactants, such as chloranile is foreseen, without any advantage from the point of view of the industrial process.It has been now found that the 5, 6, 7, 8 tetrahydroderivatives can be dehydrogenated to the corresponding compounds of general formu la A by means of a group of oxidizing compounds, which are less expenSive, give place to very high yields and require for their in dustrial use a less sophisticated and safer technology with respect to that needed for the use of bromine or of other halogens.These oxidizing compounds, which act according to a mechanism different from that of the halogens, are for instance alkaline dichroma tes, alkaline permanganates, manganese dioxide, nitric acid.Their action takes directly place in solution or suspension, which is preferably neutral or.made acidic by the addition of acetic acid and aqueous acetic acid, or of diluted mineral acids, directly leading to desired product without using other reactants, as it was necessary in the case of using bromine or sulfuryl chloride which then required triethylamine as the acceptor of hydrogen halide in Åa subse quent step.Thus, according to the process of the present invention, a compound having the general formula B EMI2.1 R1 H, CH3, C2H5 R2 Cl, CH3O, C2H5 CH3S, CH3SO2 is reacted with an oxidizing compound, preferably selected among dichromates and permanganates of alkali metals, manganese dioxide and nitric acid, the reaction being carried out in hot conditions until the conversion is completed.More particularly, the 6 carbethoxy 8 ethyl 2 ethoxy 5 oxo 5, 8 dihX dro pyrido l 2, 3 d7 pyrimidine I has been found to be especially useful for the preparation with high yields of the above mentioned acids.It is thus prepared, according to the present invention, from 6 etho xycarbonyl 8 ethyl 2 ethoxy 5 oxo 5, 6,7, 8 tetrahydro pyrido g2, 3 d7 pyrimidine II , according to the following scheme EMI3.1 In turn, the compound II is prepared in two steps, according to the prior art, starting from 2 ethoxy 4 chloro 5 carbethoxy pyrimidine, which is condensed with ethyl 3 ethylamino propionate in the presen cP of an acid acceptor and then cyclized in the presence of alkaline alcoliolates. The following examples illustrate the invention, without having limi ting meaning.EXAMPLE 1Preparation of 2 methoxy 5 oxo 6 carbethoxy 8 ethyl 5, 8 dihydro pyri do 2, 3 d pyrimidine.5 grams of 2 methoxy 5 oxo 6 carbethoxy 5, 6, 7, 8 tetrahydro pyrido 2,3 d pyrimidine are hot dissolved in 100c.c. of tolueneThe solution is added with 5 g of manganese dioxide and the mixture is refluxed for 8 hours. The reaction mixture is then hot filtered and the residue is further washed with toluene. By removing the solvent a solid is obtained which crystallizes from isopropanol there are obtained 4 g of product having M. p. 150 0 C. Yield 80. 5 EXAMPLE 2According to the process of example 1 there is prepared, from.the corresponding tetrahydro derivative, 2 ethoxy 5 oxo 6 carbethoxy 8 ethyl5, 8 dihydro pyrido 2, 3 d7 pyrimidine. Yield 78. 5 110. M. p. 149 C. EXAMPLE 3 By the same process there is prepared1 from the corresponding tetrahydro derivative, 2 methylme rcapto 5 oxo 6 carbet hoxy 8 ethyl 5, 8 dihydro pyrido 2, 3 d7 pyrimidine. Yield 84,2 . Melting point 147 149 C.EXAMPLE 4A 1 liter flask is charged with 250 g of water and 160 mls of 12. 5 nitric acid.The solution is heated to 75 80 C and at this temperature 50 g of 6 carbethoxy 2 methylthio 5 oxo 8 ethyl 5, 6, 7, 8 tetrahydro pyrido 2, 3 d7 pyrimidine are added in portions. The oxidation reaction begins after 3 4 portions of the compound to be oxidized have been added.The internal temperature of the flask is maintained at 750C to 80 C, by slightly heating. Once the addition of intermediate compound is completed, after about 30 minutes, the suspension is brought to about 90 95 0C and then maintained at that temperature for 30 minutes.Thereafter the reaction mixture is cooled to the room temperature.The resulting white product is decanted. The acid mother liquor is removed by siphoring and 150 mls of water are added to the flask the reaction mixture is stirred for 5 minutes and then decanted again. The supernatant water is removed by siphoning and then 90 mls of 5 M potassium hydroxide and 150 mls of water are added, whereby all the product is dissolved, 50 mls of chloroform are added to this solution.The reaction mixture is stirred for 5 minutes and then the two phases are allowed to separate. The chloroform phase is removed and the washing with chloroform 50 mls is repeated. The reaction mixtu re is maintained under stirring for 5 minutes, the two phases are allowed to separate, and the chloroform phase is removed. By adding 40 mls of diluted acetic acid 1 1 a precipitate is obtained from the aqueous phase up to pH 5 5. 5. The product is filtered, washed with water and then with ethanol.There are obtained 38. 5 g of 2 methylthio 5 oxo 8 ethyl 5, 8 dihydro pyrido 2,3 d pyrimidin 8 carboxylic acid, will a yield of 8 wil I respect to the compound to be oxidized . M.p. 254 2660C. EXAMPLE 5Preparation of 6 ethoxycarbonyl 8 ethyl 2 ethQxy 5 oxo 5, 8 dihydro pyrido 2, 3 d7 pyrimidine.To a solution of 5. 8 g of the corresponding tetrahydro derivative in 30 mls of acetic acid, heated to 500 C, 8 g of sodium bichromate, as a solution in 35 mls of water, are dropwise added. The addition takes place in 30 minutes.The deep green solution is furthermore stirred for one and half hours at 500C and then diluted with 3 times the volume thereof with cold water. T ne resulting suspension is neutralized with sodium hydroxide pH 7 and extracted with CHCl3. The organic phase, after drying on Na SO and concentration to dry 24 residue, gives place to a white precipitate which is crystallized from isopropanol 2 1 there are obtained 4. 5 g of product m. p. 1440C . Yield 78. 1 .EXAMPLE 6 90 g of 2 ethoxy 4 chloro 5 carbethoxy pyrimidine, 270 mls of toluene and 58. 5 mls of triethylamine are charged in a 1 liter flask.60.7 g of ethyl ss ethylamino propionate in 60 mls of to uene are then dropwise added under stirring.During the addition, the temperature does tend to increase thus the addition is cautiously carried out in order not to pass 500C. The reaction mixture is then maintained under stirring for 2 hours at 500C, cooled, filtered, and the residual triethylamine hydrochloride is washed with 30 mls of toluene the toluene solution is thereafter washed with 50 mls of water the reaction mixture is dried over anhydrous sodium sulphate, and brought to dry condition, giving place to 133 g of raw 2 ethoxy 4 ss ethylamino ethyl propionate 5 carbethoxy pyrimidine, which is directly used for the subsequent step. 170 mls of anhydrous dimethylformamide DMF , 31 g of podium eft he late are charged in a 500 ml flask, and, under stirring, 133 g of raw 2 ethoxy 4 P ethylamino ethyl proplonate 5 carbethoxy pyrimidine in 133 mls of anhydrous DMF are dropwise added, by controlling that the the temperature of 200C is not overcome.The reaction mixture is maintained under stirring for one hour at room temperature, and then the heating bath is brought to 500C and the reac tion mixture is distilled under vacuum.The reaction mixture is cooled and then poured in 1. 4 litres of water and ice the pH is brought to 4. 9 by means of 35 mls of acetic acid.The precipitate is filtered and washed with water. After drying, 111 g are obtained with a yield of 97 with respect to the ethoxy chloro derivative . M. p. 92 95 C.EXAMPLE 7 65. 4 g of hexahydrate piperazine are charged in a 500 ml flask.When the piperazine is completely melted, 33 g of 6 carbethoxy 8 ethyl 8 etboxy 5 oxo 5, 8 dihydro pyrido 2, 3 d7 pyrimidine are added. 0The mixture is brought to a temperature of between 87 and 90 C. and is maintained under stirring for 90 minutes.After cooling, 140 mls of water and 7 g of NaOH in 85 mls of water are added. The reaction mixture is then stirred for 3 hours at room temperature and filtered.The filtrate is brought to pH 7 by means of acetic acid, cooled and filtered, and then dried in an oven for a night under vacuum. There are obtained 29. 5 g with a yield of 86 .The product is purified by dissolution in aqueous acetic acid and subsequent further precipitation by neutralization, 25. 5 g of anhydrous product being thus obtained with a melting point of about 255 C. Yield 74. 5 .EXAMPLE 8 34. 8 g of 2 ethoxy 5 oxo 8 ethyl 5, 8 dihydro pyrido 2, 3 d1 6 carbe thoxy pyrimidine, 25. 5 g of pyrrolidine and 73 mls of toluene are charged in a 250 mls flask. The mixture is maintained under stirring for 2 hours at 900C. The wlwole reaction mixture is poured into 500 mls of water, filtered and the residue remaining on the filter is carefully washed with water, in order to eliminate the residual pyrrolidine, and dried in an oven giving place to 37 g of product with a yield of 98 and a melting point of 195 1960C. The resulting product is saponified in diluted aqueous alkali. Be cooling and the making it acidic, there is obtained the pyromidic acid, having melting point of about 310 C. Yield 989 From the preceding examples it is clear that, by means of the process of the present invention, it is possible, once the oxidizing agent and the solvent are carefully selected, to prepare the compounds of formula A either as esters and as free acids more particularly, the former are obtained when the oxidizing agent is manganese dioxide or an alkaline dichromate and the solvent is acetic acid aqueous or diluted , or a mineral acid also in diluted form , such as for instance sulphuric acid. It is important when the intermediate A serves for further reactions, in which the form of free acid might be an obstacle with respect to an easy occurrence of the next step.