# Underwater seismic source and its use.

## Abstract
The invention provides a sound source for use in underwater seismic testing, the source comprising a substantially linear array of a predetermined number of air guns of differing volumes. The spacing between the guns is determined by a weighted centroid distribution , this being determined by selecting a predetermined mathematical window function which is positive at all points within the window and which approximates to the Fourier transform of a single square wave, the width of the window being selected to correspond to the desired length of the array, and then dividing the area under the curve into areas which are the same in number as the air guns, and the relative proportion between the areas under the curve being the same as the relative effective weights of the individual air guns in the array. The centroid of each such area is then determined, and the positioning of the air guns is proportional to the separation of the centroids measured on the x axis of the function. The mathematical window function may be a Hanning or a sinc function, for example. The effective weights i.e. the primary pressure amplitude responses of the air guns preferably increase symmetr ically from the ends of the array towards the mid point thereof.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A sound source for use in underwater seismic testing, which source comprises a substantially linear array of a predetermined number N of air guns of differing volumes, the air guns being spaced apart at intervals that are in relative proportion to each other according to the intervals between the centroids of the same number, , of areas under a predetermined mathematical window function, wherein a the magnitude of each of the respective areas is such that the ratio between the area in question and the whole area under the said function is the same as the ratio between the effective weight of the air gun whose position will relate to the centroid of the area in question and the total effective weight of all the air guns and b the mathematical window function is selected so that 1 the width of the window relates to the length of the array 2 the function is positive at all points within the window and 3 the function approximates to the Fourier transform of a single square wave. 2. A sound source as claimed in claim 1, wherein the effective weights of the air guns increase symmetrically from the ends of the array towards the mid point thereof. 3. A sound source as claimed in claim 1 or 2, wherein the mathematical window function used to determined the position of the air guns within the array is a Hanning function. 4. A sound source as claimed in claim 1 or 2, wherein the mathematical window function used to determine the position of the air guns within the array is a sinc function. 5. A sound source as claimed in any preceding claim, wherein there are an odd number of air guns in the array. 6. A sound source as claimed in claim 5, wherein there are seven air guns in the array. 7. A sound source substantially as described in the foregoing example. 8. A method of underwater seismic testing, in which a pressure wave is initiated by a sound source as claimed in any preceding claim, and reflected and or reflected and refracted waves are detected bg a hydrophone array.

## Description
UNDERWATER SEISMIC TESTING This invention relates to underwater seismic testing. Conventional methods of seismic exploration involve the initiation of seismic waves which travel through the formations of interest and suffer reflection and refraction by various layers. One or more receivers is or are located so as to pick up wave forms which have been reflected or reflected and refracted by the formation o interest. When seismic exploration is carried out on land, a variety of sources can be used to initiate the seismic wave. For underwater seismic exploration, the most widely used source is a device known as an air gun.This expels a plug of compressed air directly into the water in which the air gun is immersed. This results in a wave front travelling away from the air gun, the wave front being largely undisturbed by the water through which it travels. At the sea bottom, the wave front continues travelling downwards into the submarine structure. The strata which lie beneath the sea cause a seismic wave to be reflected and refracted, and resultant wave reflections are detected by one or more hydrophones which is or are suspenaed1 n the water. By analysing the response from the or ech hydrophone, information about the submarine geology is obtained. A major disadvantage of the air gun in underwater testing is that the air expelled from the gun acts as a bubble which oscillates. Thus, instead of producing a single wave front, an air gun tends to produce a plurality of waves which correspond to the oscillations of the air bubble. Thus a repetitive wave form results.This is undesirable because it renders difficult the diagnosis of the information received by the hydrophones. A number of arrangements have been devised in an attempt to minimise this difficulty associated with air guns. One of these arrangements is to modify the air gun it self by using what is known as a wave shape kit .This is a mechanical device which is attached to the air gun and which, in effect, damps the oscillation of the air bubble produced when the air gun is fired.Another arrangement is to employ a plurality of air guns which are fired simulataneously, but which expel a different volume of air into the water.This results in a series of bubbles of different sizes, which consequently oscillate at different rates. The overall effect is to amplify the principal wave front while diminishing the subsequent wave pulses due to destructive interference. Quite commonly both of these techniques may be used in combination resulting in mixed volume arrays of air guns individually fitted with waveshape kits. The radiated pressure amplitude, or the effective weight of each individual gun in an array is then determined in a complicated manner by particulars of the waveshape kits and by the effective yolumes of compressed air that are released by the individual guns. A practice that is sometimes used to improve the directional response of an array of sources qr receivers is to assign different weights to equally spaced elements in the array, the individual weights being calculated according to a variety of alternative mathematical criteria. Examples of amplitude weighted array designs are described in Geophysics volume 23, pages 1 to 25, for instance. Thus, reflected seismic waves that emerge at angles close to the vertical are enhanced by employing suitable amplitude weighted arrays whereas seismic noise that propagates in a near horizontal direction is diminished. A further technisue that can be employed to enhance the directional response of an array of seismic sources or receivers is known as distance weighting. This technique is conventionally applied to the locations of hydrophones, each having equal sensitivity or weight, which detect the reflected or reflected and refracted seismic waves which emerge from the underwater strata after the air guns have been fired. In the technique of distance weighting, a plurality of hydrophones is arranged in line, with the hvdrophones spaced apart from one another by predetermined distances. The separation between individual hydrophones is generally calculated so as to give what is termed a centroid distribution the mathematical technique for carrving out the calculation is described in U.S. patent No. 3,400,783.The aim is to locate the hydrophones according to a linear density which approximates to the area under t truncated sinc function. This idea is also described inGeophysics volume 21, pages 354 to 355. It is important to note that conventional amplitudeweighting and distance weighting methods cannot readily be applied in the design of directional air gun arrays.In a mixed volume air gun array the weights of individual elements are not independent variables at the disposal of the designer, but are dictated by the need to suppress bubble pulse radiation. Likewise the separation between elements in an air gun array is to some extent governed by the need to avoid, or in some cases to deliberately induce, interaction effects between adjacent elements so as to modify bubble behaviour in a preferred manner. A further technique for improving the results of underwater seismic exploration by the use of directional source arrays is described in British Patent No. 1,417,948.This technique involves the use of an elongate seismic source comprising a plurality of individual s ound sources which are concentrated in a series of arrays distributed over the length of the source. We have now devised a technique for underwater seismic investigation which does not require the use of 2 plurality of arrays disposed over the length of an elongate seismic source, as is required by British patent No. 1,417,948. The technique simultaneouslyembodies the advantages of conventional amplitude weighting and distance weighting in a relatively simple underwater sound source. According to one aspect of the present invention, there is provided a sound source for use in underwater seismic testing, which source comprises a substantially linear array of a predetermined number N of air guns of differing volumes, the air guns being spaced apart at intervals that are in relative proportion to each other according to the intervals between the centroids of the same number, X, of areas under a predetermined mathematical window funct ion, wherein a the magnitude of each of the respective areas is such that the ratio between the area in question and the whole area under the said function is the same as the ratio between the effective weight of the air guns whose position will relate to the centroid of the area in question and the total effective weight of all the air guns and b the mathematical window function is selected so that 1 the width of the window relates to the length of the array 2 the function is positive at all points within the window and 3 the function approximates to theFourier transform of a single square wave. The invention also provides a method of underwater seismic testing in which a substantially linear array of air gun sources of differing volumes is spaced out in accordance with the procedure just recited. The number of air guns, the individual volumes and the total volume are predetermined by means well known in the art to obtain a seismic signature of suitable peak amplitude and peak to bubble amplitude ratio, as is illustrated hereinafter by Figure 2, for example. The contribution or weight of each individual gun to the peak pressure signal can then be determined by experimental observation or by calculation. The magnitude of each of the N respective areas under the predetermined mathematical window function is determined as a function of the primary pressure amplitude response i.e. the effective weights, of the air guns. The mathematical window function can be, for example, a sinc function sin x x or a Hanning function 1 cos 2 X L . The substantially linear array is preferably syntrical both with respect to the amplitudes of the air guns and their respective spacings. Consequently it is preferred that the mathematical window function is also a szzetrical function. The number N can be odd or even.A wave shape kit can be used on any or all of the air guns. The invention is illustrated by the following example. EXAMPLE An array of seven air guns was selected1 the relative outputs of the guns being determined by experiment as follows 0.58 0.9 0.69 1.0 0.69 0.59 0.58 The volumes of the guns were 180, 235, 360, 540, 360, 235 and 180 in . The effective length of the array was chosen to be 100 metres. As the mathematical function, a Hanning function was selected with the periodL 100 metres, i.e. f x 1 cos 2 vx L, within the range 50 x 50. The following steps illustrate the calculation of the distances between the individual air guns and the centre of the array. Area of half array equalsEMI6.1 Scaling the weights so that wi 50, wi 4.72, 2 kZwi 100 4.72 k 21.19.Thus scaled weights W0 21.19 w1 14.62, w 2 12.50, w3 12.29.Distance x1 EMI6.2 EMI6.3 These equations can be solved using graphical methods, or by means of successive approximation techniques that converge upon the exact solution. One such iterative technique gives EMI7.1 where n is the number of iterations and the prime denotes differentiation. Applying this technique to the equations of the present Example gives x, 9.208, x2 r 17.355, x3 28.282, and it is understood that x0 is at the centre of the array which comprises an odd number of elements N 7 in the present example. The actual overall length of the array between extreme elements is thus 56.564m although the distribution of elements is such as to approximate the response of a weighted array of lOOm total length. Once an array has been designed in this manner it is a simple matter to adjust the breadth of the passband in the wavenumber response by scaling the array dimensions according to a common factor. Scaling the results of the above example such as to arrive at an overall array length of 80 metres, and rounding off the result to an intezlnumber of metres, givN x1 13, x2 24, and x 3 40. The amplitude response of this particular weighted array as a function of wavenumber, i.e. reciprocal wavelength , is shown in Figure 1 of the accompanying drawings. Figure 2 shows the far field pressure response of the air gun array, while Figure 3 shows the amplitude spectrum of the pressure response as a function of frequency. The air guns were located at a depth of 5 metres.Figure 2 shows the peak to peak ratio between the primary pulse and residual bubble pulses to be 14.2 1. The peak to peak pressure variation of the primary pulse was 31 bar m. In a further aspect of the invention the technique described above is applied to underwater seismic sources other than air guns.