# Apparatus and method for automatically inserting at least one electrical contact into an electrical connector.

## Abstract
Apparatus and method for automatically inserting at least one electrical contact of the type having a retention portion into an electrical connector 31 adapted to receive and retain the contact by a contact retention mechanism in a corresponding cavity 62 formed in the connector 31 and located at a contact unloading position 61 , the apparatus comprising an indexing device 32 for positioning the con nector 31 so that the corresponding cavity 62 thereof is aligned with the unloading position 61 an orienting device 12,26 , including a vibrating unit 12 , for orienting the con tact in a predetermined direction at a contact loading position 44 a guiding device 52 extending from the contact loading position 44 to the contact unloading position 61 for guiding the contact from the loading position 44 to the correspond ing cavity 62 of the connector 31 and a regulated air pres sure source 30 operatively associated with the guiding device 52 for controllably propelling the contact through the guiding device 52 and into the corresponding cavity 62 of the connector 31 .

## Claims
Claims 1. An apparatus for automatically inserting at least one electrical contact 14 of the type having a retention portion 21 into an electrical connector 31 adapted to receive and retain the contact 14 in a corresponding cavity 62 of the connector 31 by a contact retention mechanism 70,72 , characterized in that it comprises guide means 52 190,1914,236 extending from a contact loading position 1414 159 to a contact unloading position 61 238 adjacent the connector 31 for guiding the contact 114 from the loading position 1414 159 to the cavity 62 of the connector 31 and propelling means 30 156 operatively associated with said guide means 52 190,1914,236 for controllably propelling the contact 14 , said guide means 52 190,1914, 236 guiding the propelled contact 14 into the cavity 62 . 2. An apparatus as claimed in claim 1, characterized in that said propelling means 30 156 comprises a regulated air pressure source for producing a forward propelling air pressure force. 3. An apparatus as claimed in claim 2, characterized in that it includes means 32 2146 having a support surface for supporting the connector 31 thereon. 14. An apparatus as claimed in claim 3, characterized in that it includes generating means 314,80 operatively associated with said base means 32 for controllably producing an air pressure force in the cavity 62 to seat the retention portion 21 of the contact 114 within the contact retention mechanism 70,72 . 5. An apparatus as claimed in claim 14, characterized in that said generating means 314,80 includes a second regulated air pressure source 34 for producing a reverse propelling air pressure force. 6. An apparatus as claimed in claim 5, characterized in that said generating means 34,80 includes a seating tool 80 having a hole extending therethrough and aligned with the cavity 62 of the connector 31 for placing the cavity 62 in fluid communication with the second air pressure source 34 . 7. An apparatus as claimed in claim 2, characterized in that said guide means 52 190,1914,236 includes tubing 52 190 having a passage 192 extending therethrough between the first and second ends 50,59 193,195 thereof and adapted to receive the contact 14 therein at the first end 50 1,93 and adapted to release the propelled contact 114 at the second end 59 195 thereof. 8. An apparatus as claimed in claims 5 and 7, characterized in that there is provided an alignment tool 76 having an aperture extending therethrough aligned with the passage of the tubing 52 and the cavity 62 of said connector 31 at said unloading position 61 , said alignment tool 76 being adapted to reduce the amount of air flowing in a reverse direction from the cavity 62 and into the passage of the tubing 52 at the unloading position 61 . 9. An apparatus as claimed in claim 5, characterized in that there is provided a movable stop 58 operatively associated with the tubing 52 for blocking air flowing in a reverse direction within the passage of said tubing 52 at said loading position 1414 . 10. An apparatus as claimed in claim 1, characterized in that it includes positioning means 12,26 112,124 130, 160 for positioning the contact 14 at the loading position 44 159 so that the contact 114 is oriented in a predetermined direction. 11. An apparatus as claimed in claim 10, characterized in that said positioning means 12,26 includes orienting means 12,26 adapted to receive the contact 14 for orienting the received contact 114 . 12. An apparatus as claimed in claim 11, characterized in that said orienting means 12,26 includes a vibrating unit 12 for orienting the contact 14 by vibrational energy. 13. An apparatus as claimed in claim 11, characterized in that there is provided inspecting means 24 operatively associated with said positioning means 12,26 for inspecting an oriented contact 14 for defects. 14. An apparatus as claimed in claim 11, characterized in that said orienting means 12,26 includes a rotary indexer 26 having at least one contact receiving passage 40 for receiving the contact 114 oriented in a first direction and releasing the contact 14 oriented in a second direction. 15. An apparatus as claimed in claims 1 and 3 for automatically inserting a plurality of electrical contacts 114 of the type having a retention portion 21 into an electrical connector 31 adapted to receive and retain the contacts 114 in a corresponding plurality of spaced cavities 62 formed in the connector 31 , characterized in that said means 32 2146 for supporting the connector 31 thereon comprises indexing means 32 2146 for moving the connector 31 relative to the guide means 52 190,1914,236 so that the cavities 62 of the connector 31 are successively aligned with said guide means 52 190,194,236 so that the contacts 114 are propelled into their corresponding cavities 62 . 16. An apparatus as claimed in claims 10 and 15, characterized in that said positioning means 12,26 112,124130,160 is adapted to position the contacts 114 at the loading position 1414 159 one at a time so that each of the contacts 114 is oriented in a predetermined direction. 17. An apparatus as claimed in claim 1, characterized in that it comprises guide support means 142,212,214, 216 for supporting said guide means 190,1914,236 adjacent the contact loading and unloading positions 159,238 to prevent movement of said guide means 190,1914,236 adjacent the contact loading and unloading positions 159,238 . 18. An apparatus as claimed in claims 7 and 17, characterized in that said guide support means 1142,212,2114, 216 is adapted to rigidly hold the tubing 190 at the first and second ends 193,195 thereof for limiting movement of the tubing 190 in a radial direction and in an axial direction. 19. An apparatus as claimed in claim 18, characterized in that said guide support means 1142,212,2114,216 includes an elongated holder 212 having an axial hole 226 extending completely therethrough and receiving the tubing 190 therein adjacent the second end 195 of the tubing 190 , the cross sectional area of the hole 226 being substantially equal to the cross sectional area of the tubing 190 along the entire length of the hole 226 to limit movement of the tubing 190 in the radial direction. 20.An apparatus as claimed in claim 19, characterized in that said elongated holder 212 has first and second end portions 228,230 , said hole 226 extending through said end portions 228,230 , and in that said guide support means 1142,212,214,216 includes a pair of clamps 232,2314 , said clamps 232,234 removably clamping said tubing 190 within said end portions 228,230 to limit movement of the tubing 190 in the axial direction. 21. An apparatus as claimed in claims 7 and 20, characterized in that said guide means 190,194,236 further includes a terminal part 236 removably supported adjacent the unloading position 238 by one 234 of said clamps 232,2314 , said terminal part 236 having a bore 238 corresponding to said unloading position extending completely therethrough, communicating and aligned with the passage 192 at the second end 195 of the tubing 190 to receive the propelled contact 14 . 22. An apparatus as claimed in claim 19, characterized in that said guide support means 142,212,214,216 includes a support structure 214 and mounting means 216 for mounting said holder 212 to said support structure 214 , said holder 212 being secured to said mounting means 216 . 23. An apparatus as claimed in claims 7 and 17, characterized in that said guide means 190,194,236 further includes a beginning part 194 having an aperture 200 extending completely therethrough, said beginning part 194 being removably held adjacent the loading position 159 by said guide support means 1142,212,214,216 , and said beginning part 194 communicating and being aligned with the passage 192 of the tubing 190 at the first end 193 thereof to release the propelled contact 114 into said passage 192 . 214. An apparatus as claimed in claim 18, characterized in that said guide support means 142,212,214,216 includes a housing 1142 for supporting said tubing 190 at the first end 193 thereof, said housing 142 having a housing cavity 150 and a hole 159 communicating the housing cavity 150 and the passage 192 of the tubing 190 , said loading position 159 being located within said housing cavity 150 and corresponding to said hole . 25. An apparatus as claimed in claims 2 and 24, characterized in that said air pressure source 156 is in fluid communication with said housing cavity 150 to propel the contact 114 at the loading position 159 . 26. An apparatus as claimed in claims 10 and 25, characterized in that said positioning means 112,1214 130,160 includes a movable slide member 160 slidably mounted within said housing cavity 150 , said slide member 160 receiving a contact 114 at a contact receiving position 152 and releasing the contact 114 at the loading position 159 , and said slide member 160 reciprocating between said receiving position 152 and said loading position 159 . 27. An apparatus as claimed in claims 15 and 17, characterized in that said indexing means 246 includes one base member 248 movable with respect to said guide support means 1142,212,2114,216 for supporting the connector 31 thereon to move therewith, and in that there is provided retaining means 274,278,280 288 operatively associated with said one base member 248 for controllably retaining said one base member in a first fixed position relative to the guide means 190,1914,236 , a first cavity 62 of the connector 31 being aligned with the guide means 190,1914,236 at the unloading position 238 . 28. An apparatus as claimed in claim 27, characterized in that said retaining means 274,278,280 288 includes a held piece 274,278 mounted to said one base member 248 and a holding piece 280 288 mounted to said guide support means 1142,212,2114,216 for selectively holding and releasing said held piece 2714,278 , said holding piece 280 288 selectively holding said one base member 248 and said held piece 2714,278 in a plurality of fixed positions, and said holding piece 280 288 releasing said held piece 274,278 to permit said one base member 248 to move between different fixed positions, different corresponding cavities 62 of the connector 31 being aligned with said guide means 190,1914,236 at the unloading position 238 . 29. An apparatus as claimed in claim 28, characterized in that said held piece 274,278 comprises a loca ting plate 274 and said holding piece 280 288 comprises a lever 281 , said locating plate 274 being adapted for holding engagement by said lever 281 at a plurality of positions on the locating plate 274 arranged in a predetermined array corresponding to the arrangement of the cavities 62 of the connector 31 . 30. An apparatus as claimed in claim 29, characterized in that said locating plate 274 has a plurality of apertures 278 formed therein having said predetermined configuration, and said lever 281 includes a projection 280 adapted to be received in said apertures 278 for selectively holding said one base member 248 in one of said fixed positions. 31. An apparatus as claimed in claim 27, characterized in that there is provided indicator means 298,302,304 operatively associated with said one base member 248 for indicating the position of said one base member 248 relative to said guide means 190,194,236 . 32. An apparatus as claimed in claim 31, characterized in that it includes a main support structure 114 , and in that said indexing means 246 includes another base member 252 mounted to said main support structure 114 , said indicator means 298,302,304 being operatively associated with said other base member 252 for indicating the position of said one base member 248 relative to said guide means 190,194,236 . 33. An apparatus as claimed in claim 32, characterized in that said indicator means 298,302,304 includes a pointer 304 mounted on one of said base members 2148,252 and a plate 298 mounted on the other one of said base members 2148,252 and having indicia 302 formed thereon, said pointer 3014 pointing to one of said indicia 302 to indicate one of said positions of said one base member 248 relative to said guide means 190,1914,236 . 34. An apparatus as claimed in claim 33, characterized in that there is provided actuating means 292 operatively associated with said one base member 248 for moving said one base member 248 relative to said other base member 252 . 35. An apparatus as claimed in claim 27, characterized in that there is provided a jig 258 mounted to said one base member 248 for removably mounting said connector 31 to said one base member 2148 . 36. An apparatus as claimed in claim 35, characterized in that said jig 258 includes securing means 2614,266 for securing said connector 31 to said jig 258 , said securing means 2614,266 being adjustable to selectively secure different types of connectors 31 to said jig 258 . 37. A method for automatically inserting at least one electrical contact 14 of the type having a retention portion 21 into an electrical connector 31 adapted to receive and retain the contact 114 in a corresponding cavity 62 formed in the connector 31 , characterized in that it comprises the steps of positioning the contact 14 at a contact loading position 144 159 propelling the contact 114 and guiding the contact 14 along a predetermined path from the contact loading position 44 159 to a contact unloading position 61 238 aligned with the cavity 62 of the connector 31 . 38. A method as claimed in claim 37, characterized in that the step of positioning includes the step of orienting the contact 114 so that said contact is oriented in a predetermined direction at the contact loading position 1414 159 . 39. A method as claimed in claim 37, characterized in that said step of propelling comprises the step of applying an air pressure force to one end of the contact 114 . 140. A method as claimed in claim 39, characterized in that said step of guiding includes the step of conducting the contact 14 so that the other end of said contact 14 precedes the one end of said contact 14 throughout the movement of said contact 14 along the predetermined path. 141. A method as claimed in claim 37, characterized in that said predetermined path is defined by a guide means 52 190,1914,236 from the contact loading position 44 159 to the contact unloading position 61 238 and into the cavity 62 of the connector 31 , and in that there is provided the step of supporting the guide means 52 190,194,236 adjacent the contact loading and unloading positions 44,61 159, 238 to prevent movement of the guide means 52 190,194,236 adjacent the contact loading and unloading positions 44,61 159,238 . 42. A method as claimed in claim 37, characterized in that there is provided the step of positioning the connector 31 so that the cavity 62 thereof is aligned with the unloading position 61 238 , said step of positioning the connector 31 including the steps of placing the connector 31 on a base member 64 2148 at a predetermined position thereon, and moving said base member 64 248 . 43. A method as claimed in claim 42, characterized in that there is provided the step of locking said base member 248 after said moving step so that the cavity 62 of the connector 31 is held in alignment with the unloading position 238 during the guiding step. 44. A method as claimed in claim 42, characterized in that said step of positioning the connector 31 includes the step of mounting the connector 31 on said base member 248 .

## Description
Apparatus and method for automatically inserting at least one electrical contact into an electrical connector This invention relates to apparatus and method for automatically inserting at least one electrical contact of the type having a retention portion into an electrical connector adapted to receive and retain the contact in a corresponding cavity of the connector by a contact retention mechanism. Electrical connectors are utilized in electrical instrumentation to connect together the multiplicity of wires carrying electrical power and signals within and between different electrical instruments making up the system or systems.For example, in the aerospace field, as electronic systems become more and more complex, the systems are miniaturized to minimize their weight and size. Hence the electrical connectors interconnecting the systems must also be reduced in size. In some instances electrical connectors may carry hundreds of electrical contacts to interconnect hundreds of wires.Each of the contacts and wires associated with such a connector is quite small about 13mm long with a diameter of about 0.75mm . Some connectors provide for rear insertion and release of electrical contacts while others provide for front insertion and release of electrical contacts. Examples of a prior art electrical connector having insertable and removable contacts may be found in U.S. Patent 3,165,369 and U.S.Patent 3,221,292. For many years connector manufacturers have been improving and developing means to retain electrical contacts in the electrical connector so that they may be easily inserted and removed with little or no dislocation of the contacts on insertion, removal and mating. For example, the U.S.Patents 14,082,398 and 4,157,806 disclose electrical inserts for retaining a plurality of electrical contacts in an electrical connector having a plurality of radially deflectable contact retaining fingers. While there have been many efforts to improve and develop means to retain electrical contacts in the electrical connector, little effort has been exerted to disc over wa ys for more efficiently and economically inserting the electrical contacts into the electrical connector. The only known prior method of inserting electrical contacts into connectors was to insert such electrical contacts manually as shown in FIGURES 6 through 8 of the U.S. Patent 14,082,398. In another known system the electrical contacts are loaded into a transfer block unit which in turn may be used to position the electrical contacts above the cavities formed in the connector after which the electrical contacts are individually inserted by hand.Oftentimes such manually inserted electrical contacts do not obtain a positive seat in their respective retention systems within the connector. Because such insertion is done manually, the time required to assemble a completed connector assembly is great and, therefore, the assembly operation is costly. The present invention overcomes the limitations and disadvantages of the prior art by providing an apparatus for automatically inserting at least one electrical contact of the type having a retention portion into an electrical connector adapted to receive and retain the contact in a corresponding cavity of the connector by a contact retention mechanism, said apparatus comprising guide means extending from a contact loading position to a contact unloading position adjacent the connector for guiding the contact from the loading position to the cavity of the connector and propelling means operatively associated with said guide means for controllably propelling the contact, said guide means guiding the propelled contact into the cavity. A preferred method according to the invention of inserting such an electrical contact into an electrical connector includes the steps of positioning the contact at a contact loading position propelling the contact and guiding the contact along a predetermined path from the contact loading position to a contact unloading position aligned with a corresponding cavity of the connector. According therefore to the invention there is provided apparatus and method for automatically inserting at least one electrical contact into an electrical connector which reduce the cost and time associated with the assembly of electrical contacts in an electrical connector and which insure, on the one hand, that an inserted electrical contact is positively seated within the electrical connector and, on the other hand, that electrical contacts are accurately inserted within their corresponding cavities of the electrical connector. The manner of carrying out the invention is described in detail below with reference to the drawings which illustrate several embodiments of this invention, in which FIGURE 1 is a schematic sectional view, partially broken away, of a first embodiment of the present invention FIGURE 2 is a slightly enlarged sectional view, partially broken away, of the first embodiment of the present invention FIGURE 3 is a side elevational view of an electrical contact used in the apparatus of the first and second embodiments of the present invention FIGURE 4 is a perspective view of a connector used with the apparatus of the first and second embodiments of the present invention FIGURE 5 is a perspective view, partially broken away, of the second embodiment of the invention FIGURE 5a is a sectional view of the second embodiment of the invention FIGURE 6 is a sectional view, partially broken away, of the second embodiment of the present invention and FIGURE 7 is a sectional view, partially broken away, and in cross section of the second embodiment of the present invention. With reference to the drawings, a first embodiment of an apparatus for automatically inserting electrical contacts into an electrical connector is collectively designated by reference numeral 10 in FIGURE 1. The apparatus 10 includes a vibrating bowl 12 adapted to receive a plurality of electrical contacts of the type exemplified by the contact generally indicated at 14 in FIGURE 3. The contacts are also generally of the type disclosed in U.S. Patent 3,725,81414. More specifically, the contact 14 includes a holder portion 16 for holding a bundle of fine brush wires 18 having angled end surfaces 20. The contact 114 also includes an enlarged retention portion or shoulder 21 which is received and retained within a connector as is described in greater detail below.The contact 114 further includes a tail portion 22 having a tapered end surface 23. In the first embodiment it is assumed that the tail portions of the contacts are heavier than the holder portions of the contacts. In general, the bowl 12 vibrates the contacts received therein and causes them to move upwardly so that the contacts are aligned or oriented as they exit the bowl 12, holder portion first. An inspecting device 24 inspects the oriented contact to determine whether a particular contact should be accepted or rejected. The apparatus 10 further includes a rotary indexer 26 which receives the inspected contacts, rotates about its axis 27, and releases the contacts oriented so that the tail portions are first. A slide unit 28 allows the contacts one at a time into an air chamber 29 in a transfer tube 55.A first regulated air pressure source 30 produces a forward air pressure force in the air chamber 29 behind a positioned contact 114 at its holder portion 16 to thereby propel the contact 14 through the tube 55 and into a cavity 62 in a connector 31 which is supported on a conventional X Y indexing table 32. The apparatus 10 also includes a second regulated air pressure source 34 for producing a reverse air pressure force in the cavity to seat the retention portion 21 of the contact 14 within the connector 31. Considering the apparatus 10 in greater detail, the vibrating bowl 12 preferably comprises a conventional motorized vibrating unit or bowl sold by Hanson Systems Incorporated of North Attleboro, Massachussets which vibrates the contacts which are positioned therein so that the contacts move upwardly on a grooved upwardly sloping surface, the contacts being held within the groove which extends upwardly on the sloping surface. The tail portions of the contacts are heavier than the holder portions of the contacts, so that the contacts exit the bowl 12 one at a time, holder portions first. The contacts are then received in a transfer tube 36 which conveys the contacts by air pressure or other means such as by gravity into the inspecting device 24 which may include therein a conventional optoelectronic circuit for generating a signal which would indicate whether a particular contact is to be accepted or rejected. For example, a particular contact could be rejected if its tail portion entered the inspecting device 24 before its holder portion or if the tail portion of a particular contact was too short or bent or even if the wires of the contact were bent or splayed. After exiting the inspecting device 24, holder portions first, the contacts enter a second transfer tube 38 under the influence of gravity or air pressure and exit the tube 38 through a flared opening 39 at a contact receiving station 42 at the indexer 26. Each of the contacts enter one of the contact receiving passages 40 formed in indexer 26 through its outer circumferential surface 141 and which are adapted to receive a contact at the receiving station 142 and release the contacts at a releasing station 1414. Each of the contact receiving passages 140 includes a holder receiving portion 146 and a tail receiving portion 148 for receiving the holder and tail portions of the contacts such as holder and tail portions 16 and 22, respectively, of the contact 114. At the releasing station 1414 the contacts enter a flared opening 50 of the upper part 53 of a third transfer tube 52 which extends from the releasing station 1414, to the slide unit 28 and to the connector 31. The third transfer tube 52 extends into and is held within a cylinder 54 of the slide unit 28 having a bore 56 extending transversely to the tube 52 to interrupt movement of contacts through the third transfer tube 52. A solenoid operated piston 58 is slidably disposed within the bore 56 to alternately and controllably establish and interrupt fluid communication between the upper part 53 of the third transfer tube 52 and a lower part 55 of the third transfer tube 52.The lower part 55 of the tube 52 has first and second ends 57 and 59, respectively, and a passage 63 extending therethrough between the first and second ends 57 and 59, respectively. When the piston 58 is retracted a single contact is allowed to enter the air chamber 29. A holder illustrated at 60, which comprises an air trap, temporarily holds the contact within the air chamber 29 until the piston 58 is extended over the lower part 55 of the third transfer tube 52 to thereby seal the lower part 55. The first air pressure source 30 is activated by the extension of the piston 58 within the bore 56 to thereby induce or shoot air into the lo wer part 55 of the third transfer tube 52 at the holder part of the contact to thereby propel the contact into one of the cavities 62 formed in the connector 31 so the contact enters the cavity with its tail portion first. Each of the transfer tubes 36, 38 and 52 preferably comprises a semi rigid clear plastic tubing which may comprise shrink polyoleofin. The X Y table 32 includes a top base member 64 which supports the connector 31 at its top surface 66. TheX Y table also includes a lower base member 68 which supports the top base member 64 to move thereover. The top base member 64 moves conventionally in a plane perpendicular to the tube 52 at an unloading position 61 relative to lower base member 68 of the X Y table 32 to thereby move the connector 31. The top base member 64 of the X Y table 32 is manually movable so that the cavities of the connector 31 are successively aligned with the second end 59 of the lower part 55 of the third transfer tube 52 at the unloading position 61.Alternatively, the X Y table 32 could be moved in an automatic fashion such as by conventional tape programming. Each of the propelled contacts such as the contact 14 is retained within its respective cavity 62 by a contact retention mechanism. For example, in the specific embodiment of the invention shown in FIGURES 1 and 2, the contact retention mechanism includes a contact retention cone comprising retention fingers 70 integral with the connector 31 and a plurality of axially extending ribs 72, also integral with the connector 31. The fingers 70 are located coaxially within each cavity 62 and taper radially inwardly to forward free ends 71 which terminate a predetermined distance from the rearwardly facing shoulder 714 on each of the ribs 72. The fingers 70 are resiliently radially expandable to allow movement of the retention portion of the contact therepast. Examples of similar contact retention mechanisms of electrical connectors are shbwn in the previously mentioned U.S. Patent 14,157,806. As shown in this U.S. patent, such contact retention mechanisms are formed by using core pins and core bushings to form mold cavities in which thermoplastic material in liquid form is poured and allowed to harden. As shown in FIGURE 2 by phantom lines, an alignment tool 76 is press fit into the second end 59 of the lower part 55 of the third transfer tube 52 to guide the contacts into their cavities 62 so that the shoulder portion of each contact is disposed between the ends 71 of the fingers 70 and the shoulders 74. The alignment tool 76 is made from the particular molding core pin used in forming the fingers 70 in the cavity 62. The tool 76 is made by forming an axial bore through the core pin to allow passage of a propelled contact therethrough and etching the core pin with acid on its outer surface so that the alignment tool 76 fits within a chamfered portion 78 of the cavity 62. The alignment tool 76 reduces the reverse flow of air pressure from the cavity 62 and back into the lower part 55 of the third transfer tube 52 by filling the slots between the fingers 70 such as slot 80 . The apparatus 10 also includes a seating tool indicated in phantom at 80 connected in fluid communication with the second air pressure source 34 by tubing 82. The seating tool 80 allows the second air pressure source 34 to induce an air pressure force between the fingers 70 and the shoulders 74 of the connector 31 to seat the shoulder portions of the contacts therebetween. If the contact is not seated within the contact retention mechanism due to excessive icicle flash, a bent tail portion of the contact, bent wire brush, or insufficient air pressure in the air chamber 29, the contact will be expelled from the cavity 62 through the chamfered portion 78 of the cavity 62. Like the alignment tool 76, the seating tool 80 is made from the particular molding core bushing of the molding apparatus which made the ribs 72. The tool 76 is made by etching the outer surface of the core bushing with acid to fit within a lower portion 84 of the cavity 62 and by forming an axial bore through the core bushing to allow air to flow therethrough. The apparatus 10 operates by, first vibrating the contacts within the vibrating bowl 12 to align and orient the contacts. The aligned contacts are then rece ived within an in specting device 24 which will generate a signal to indicate whether a particular contact is positioned improperly or is defective. The inspected contacts are then received with their holder portions inserted first within the rotary indexer 26 which in turn moves the contacts to the releasing station 44 and releases them, tail portions. first. The slide unit 28 then operates to allow one contact at a time into the air chamber 29 by retracting and extending to seal the lower part 55 of the third transfer tube 52.The first air pressure source 30 then shoots air into the air chamber 29 at the holder portion of the contact to propel the contact into an aligned cavity 62 formed in the connector 31. The contact is then either seated within the contact retention mechanism or expelled from the connector 31 by applying a reverse air pressure within the cavity 62. Thereafter, the X Y table 32 on which the connector 31 is mounted is moved so that a second cavity of the connector 31 is aligned with the second end 59 of the lower part 55 of the third transfer tube 52 so that a second contact can be propelled and received therein. With reference to the drawings, a second and preferred embodiment of an apparatus for automatically inserting electrical contacts into an electrical connector is collectively designated by the reference numeral 110 in FIGURE 5. As in the first embodiment, oriented contacts are positioned at a contact loading position adjacent the first end of tubing and are propelled by an air pressure source so that the contacts move within the tubing. The tubing guides the contacts one at a time from a position adjacent the contact loading position to a position adjacent the contact unloading position and into a connector exemplified by the connector 31 shown in FIGURE 14. The contacts to be loaded within the connector 31, as exemplified in FIGURE 14, have. tail portions which are heavier than their holder portions. The vibrating bowl 112 is substantially the same as the vibrating bowl 12 of the first embodiment and vibrates the contacts until the contacts exit the bowl 112 with their tail portions first. The apparatus 110 includes a main support structure generally indicated at 114 for supporting the other various components of the apparatus 110. The bowl 112 is mounted on a support plate 116 by bolts 118. In turn, the support plate 116 is mounted to a horizontal frame member 120 of the main support structure 114 by bolts 122. The contacts exit the bowl 112 at a support member 123 secured thereto to vibrate therewith and which has a groove 125 formed in its upper surface to receive the contacts therein. The groove 125 is aligned with a tapered slot 127 formed between projecting arms 128 of an air cylinder housing 129 of an air cylinder 1214. The air cylinder 124 includes a slide rod 130 having a contact receiving passage formed therein for moving a contact positioned therein. The contacts which exit from the grooved support member 123 fall between the downwardly sloping arms 128 of the housing 129 and are caught therebetween at the lower surface of the shoulders or retention portions of the contacts so that the relatively heavy tail portions of the contacts extend into the slot 127, the contacts being substantially vertical as shown in phantom in FIGURE 3. As more and more contacts are positioned on and between the arms 128, the forwardmost contact falls between the arms 128 at its widest position and into the passage formed in the slide rod 130. The air cylinder 124 is supported on the support plate 116 by a vertical support member 126. The slide rod 130 of the air cylinder 124 moves the contacts one at a time in a controlled fashion to a position immediately above a first transfer tube 136 to fall therein and into a pressurized venturi tube 138, the tail portion of the contact being the first part of the contact to enter the transfer tube 136.The contact is oriented tail portion down in both transfer and venturi tubes 136 and 138, respectively. The contact is sucked or pulled into the venturi tube 138, through a block 1140 which supports one end of the tube 138, and into a housing generally indicated at 1142 which supports the block 140 at its top surface 1414. The transfer tube 136 and the venturi tube 138 are coupled together by a fitting 137. The housing 142 generally comprises a U shaped structure having integrally formed upper arm and lower arm members 146 and 1148 which define a housing cavity 150 therebetween. The upper arm member 146 includes a pair of spaced first and second passages 152 and 154 extending therethrough between the top surface 144 and the housing cavity 150. The first passage 152 is adapted to receive a contact therein at a contact receiving position. The second passage 154 establishes fluid communication between the housing cavity 150 and an air pressure hose 156 which is secured at the top surface 144 of the housing 142 at one end thereof by a fitting 158 and which is connected at its opposite end to a regulated air pressure source not shown but similar to the air pressure source 30 of the first embodiment which is able to supply the required air pressure. The lower arm member 148 includes a third passage 159 which extends therethrough from the housing cavity 150 to the lower surface 161 of the housing 142 and which is aligned with the second passage 154 formed through the upper arm member 146. A generally rectangular slide member 160 which is fixedly mounted to a cylindrical rod 162 is slidably mounted within the housing cavity 150 and is held therein by a vertical face plate 164 of the housing 142. The rod 162 and the mounted slide member 160 form the reciprocating members of an air cylinder generally indicated at 166 which is mounted to a vertical support member 168 of the support structure 1114 by bolts 170 only one of which is shown . The air cylinder 166 is controlled to extend and retract the rod 162 within the housing 142 in a conventional fashion by means of air flowing in air pressure hoses 172 and 174 of the air cylinder 166. As best shown in FIGURE 5a, a contact receiving aperture 176 extends through the mounted slide member 160 and the rod 162 between the upper and lower arm members 146 and 148, respectively, at a position spaced along the rod 162 such that the contact receiving aperture 176 is aligned and communicates with the first passage 152 when the rod 162 is totally retract ed, and is also aligned and communicates with the second and third passages 154 and 159, respectively, when the rod 162 is in its fully extended position. Also mounted on the rod 162 of the air cylinder 166 are a pair of plate shaped stops 178 and 179 spaced apart on the free end 180 of the rod 162. A vertical stopping member 182 is alternately engaged by each of the stops 178 and 179 in the extended and retracted positions of the rod 162 to limit the movement of the rod 162 and insure that the contact receiving aperture 176 is correctly aligned with the first passage 152 and, subsequently, with the second and third passages 154 and 159. Also fixedly mounted on the rod 162 at its opposite end is a disc 184 which is adapted to engage and disengage first and second micro switches 186 and 188, respectively, which in turn provides control signals indicating retraction and extension of the rod 162, respectively. This apparatus 110 also includes a single piece of clear, flexible, plastic tubing which preferably comprises shrink polyoleofin generally indicated at 190. Referring to FIGURES 6 and 7, the tubing 190 has a tubing passage 192 extending completely therethrough between first and second ends 193 and 195 of the tubing 190. The first end of the tubing 190 is supported in alignment with and in fluid communication with the third passage 159 in the lower arm member 1148 adjacent the lower surface 161 of the housing 142 by an elongated part or fitment generally indicated at 194 which is threaded at its outer surfaces at opposite end portions 196 and 198. The one end portion 196 is threadedly received within a lower threaded portion of the third passage 159.The fitment 194 includes an axial fitment hole 200 which includes a first hole portion 202 having a first diameter at the one end portion 196 and which has a second hole portion 2014 at the opposite end portion 198 adapted for receiving the first end 193 of the tubing 190. The diameter of the first hole portion 202 is substantially equal to the inner diameter of the plastic tubing 190 while the diameter of the second hole portion 2014 is substantially equal to the outer diameter of the plastic tubing 190. For example, the inner diameter of the plastic tubing 1.90 preferably equals approximately 2 mm while the outer diameter of the plastic tubing 190 equals approximately 3.2 mm. The first end 193 of. the plastic tubing 190 is secured within the second hole portion 2014 and against a tapered shoulder portion 206 of the fitment 194 by a threaded nut 208 which has a central aperture 210 extending completely therethrough defined by a threaded inner wall of the nut 208. The plastic tubing 190 is secured at its second end 195 by an elongated tube holder generally indicated at 212 in FIGURE 7. As shown in FIGURE 5, the tube holder 212 is fixedly mounted to a second vertical support member 214 by a mounting support 216. The mounting support 216 may be secured to the second vertical support member 214 by mounting bolts or by welding. As shown in FIGURE 7, the tube holder 212 is held within a central passage 218 formed through the mounting support 216 between a collar portion 220 of the tube holder 212 and a locking C ring 222 disposed in an annular groove 224 formed in the outer surface of the tube holder 212. The plastic tubing 190 extends through an axial passage 226 formed through the tube holder 212. The diameter of the axial passage 226 is substantially equal to the outer diameter of the plastic tubing 190. At opposite ends of the tube holder 212 there are formed first and second integral sleeves 228 and 230, respectively. The axial passage 226 extends completely therethrough and each of the first and second sleeves 228 and 230 are threaded at their outer surfaces to receive corresponding locking nuts 232 and 234, respectively, which are likewise threaded and have central apertures 233 and 235, respectively, formed therethrough, to receive and secure the tubing 190 within the sleeves 228 and 230. A terminal part comprising a metal air tip generally indicated at 236 has a bore 238 extending completely therethrough and which is removably held adjacent an unloading position as shown in FIGURE 5 by a radially extending collar portion 242 of the locking nut 234 at a shoulder portion 244 of the air tip 236. The shoulder portion 21414 is tapered at its end surface 240 to place the bore 238 in fluid communication and in alignment with the passage 192 at the second end 195 of the tubing 190. Referring again to FIGURE 5 the apparatus 110 includes an X Y table generally indicated at 246 which preferably comprises a Rapid Position Table Model 2000 sold by Assembly Engineers, Inc. of Los Angeles, California. TheX Y table 246 includes a first base member 2148, a second base member 250, and a third base member 252. The third base member 252 is fixedly secured to a horizontal frame member 254 of the main support structure 114. Both the first and second base members 248 and 250, respectively, are supported on the third base member 252 to move in a direction indicated by arrow 259 on bearings contained within races not shown between the second and third base members 250 and 252, respectively.The first base member 248 is supported on the second base member 250 to move in a direction indicated by arrow 256 also on bearings contained within races not shown disposed between the first base member 248 and the second base member 250. A rectangular locating jig generally indicated at 258 is fixedly mounted at the top surface 260 of the first base member 248 such as by bolts 262 only two of which are shown . The locating jig 258 includes a pair of upwardly projecting locating pins 264 and 266 adapted to be received within a pair of locating holes 268 and 270, respectively, formed through the ends of the connector 31. The locating pin 266 is slidably adjustable within an elongated slot 272 formed through the top surface of the locating jig 258 to allow the locating jig 258 to accomodate connectors of various lengths or, in other words, connectors which have varying numbers of cavities formed therein. The connector 31 is press fit over the locating pins 264 and 266 at the locating holes 268 and 270, respectively, to thereby securely hold the connector 31 on the locating jig 258. Also mounted on the top surface 260 of the first base member 248 is a removable locating plate 2714 removably mounted thereon by bolts 276. The locating plate 2714 has a plurality of arranged apertures 278 formed therein at,its,top surface corresponding to the configuration and number of cavities formed in the connector 31. Each of the apertures 278 is adapted to receive a conical point 280 which extends radially from a lever arm 281 pivotally mounted between a pair of supporting arm members 282 by a pivot rod 284. The opposite end of the lever arm 281 is connected to a piston rod 286 of a second air cylinder generally indicated at 288 to move therewith.When the piston rod 286 is extended by the second air cylinder 288, the lever arm 281 pivots about the pivot rod 284 so that the conical point 280 extends into one of the apertures 278 to thereby hold the locating plate 274 and, thereby, the first base member 248 in position. The apertures 278 of the locating plate 274 are configured in the same array as the cavities 62 are configured at the top surface of the connector 31. As can be readily appreciated, if a connector of a different size or having cavities of a different configuration is mounted on the locating jig 258, a locating plate having apertures of corresponding configuration is used in place of the locating plate 2714. When the piston rod 286 is retracted the lever arm 281 pivots about the pivot rod 284 so that the conical point 280 is moved upwardly thereby releasing the locating plate 2714. A third micro switch 290 is actuated by the lever arm 281 adjacent the piston rod 286 to produce a signal indicating when the piston rod 286 is retracted and extended. The first base member 248 also has fixedly secured thereto a handle mechanism generally indicated at 292 including an I shaped block 294 extending radially from one edge surface of the, first base member 248. The handle mechanism 292 also includes a handle 296 secured to the block 294 and adapted to be gripped by the operator of the apparatus 110 to move the first base member 248 in the direction indicated by the arrows 259 and 256. The third base member 252 has a visual guide plate 298 removably mounted thereto by bolts 300. The guide plate 298 has, formed thereon spaced indicia 302 which represent the various cavities 62 formed in the connector 31. A pointer 304, which is fixedly mounted to the block.294 and extends therefrom, indicates or ,points out which one of the cavities 62 is positioned immediately below the air tip 238 at the unloading position. The visual guide plate 298 is preferably formed of a magnetic substance so that a flexible magnetic gauge comprising an L shaped plate member 306 may be placed or positioned over certain ones of the indicia 302 so that the operator of the apparatus 110 can more easily ascertain which one of the spaced indicia 302, the pointer 304 is pointing to. A push button 308 is provided on the block 294 so that the operator can push the push button 308 while at the same time holding onto the handle 296. The button 308 initiates the automatic insertion of contacts such as the contact 14 as shown in FIGURE 3 into connectors such as the connector 31 to be received and held therein. Initially, a first contact which exits from the vibrating bowl 112 is positioned above the transfer tube 136 by the air cylinder 124 and pulled therethrough and through the venturi tube 138 into the first passage 152 and then into the aligned contact receiving aperture 176 at a contact receiving position 153 wherein the rod 162 is fully retracted, the stop 178 engaging the stopping member 182. The operator of the apparatus 110 positions the connector 31 on the locating jig 258 and moves the first base member 248 so that a first cavity formed in the connector 31 is aligned with the air tip 236 at the contact unloading position as indicated by the pointer 304.At that time, the operator pushes the push button 308 to actuate the second air cylinder 288 to cause the rod 286 to extend and the conical point 280 to extend into one of the apertures 278 representing the first cavity thereby holding the first base member 248 in position. At this time the X Y table 246 and the connector 31 are locked in alignment for contact insertion. When the rod 286 is fully extended the lever arm 281 engages the third micro switch 290 which, in turn, activates the air cylinder 166 by a solenoid air valve. The rod 162 of the air cylinder 166 extends until the disc 184 contacts or engages the second micro switch 188 which activates the air pressure source similar to air pressure source 30 by a solenoid air valve to provide a forward air pressure force of approximately 2.8 kg cm2 in the air pressure hose 156 and into the second passage 154 formed in the upper arm member 1146. When the slide member 160 is fully extended the contact receiving aperture 176 is aligned with the second passage 154 and the third passage 159 so that the first contact is propelled through the third passage 159, through the fitment hole 200, through the tube passage 192, through the air tip bore 238 and into the aligned cavity. When the rod 162 is in its fully extended position the second stop 179 engages the stopping member 182. As previously mentioned the contact is retained within the cavity by the particular contact retention mechanism formed therein. When the operator realizes that the contact has been inserted the operator releases the push button 308 which allows the second air cylinder 288 to retract the rod 286 to pivot the lever arm 281 about the pivot rod 284 thereby allowing the conical point 280 to release the first base member 248 at the locating plate 274. At the same time, the third micro switch 290 causes the air cylinder 166 through its solenoid air valve to retract the rod 162 and the disc 184 activates the first micro switch 186 which, in turn, causes the air cylinder 124 through its solenoid air valve to move a second contact over the tube 136 to be pulled therethrough and through the venturi tube 138, through the first passage 152 and into the contact receiving aperture 176. The operator again moves the X Y table 246 by means of the handle 296 such that the pointer 3014 indicates that another cavity of the cavities 62 is aligned at the unloading position and may receive a contact therein and the operator may again press the push button 308 to begin the cycle again.