# N Substituted alpha amino acids, processes for making them and pharmaceutical compositions containing them.

## Abstract
Compounds of the formula II These compounds are prepared by methods usual for an alogous compounds.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A compound of the formula II or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt, ester or bioprecursor thereof EMI33.1 wherein R1 represents an optionally substituted aryl, aralkyl, aromatic heterocyclic or aromatic heterocyclylalkyl group, and R2 represents a phenyl group optionally substituted with C16 alkyl, halogen, hydroxy, trifluoromethyl or methylenedioxy, with the proviso that when R1 is benzyl, R2 is phenyl, 4 chlorophenyl, 2 hydroxyphenyl, a C10H7 or B C ,H7 , the compound of formula II is not in the DL form. 2. A compound according to claim 1, in which E1 represents phenyl or benzyl optionally substituted with halogen, lower alkyl or hydroxyl, or a 5 or 6 membered heterocyclic group containing one or more nitrogen, oxygen or sulphur atoms and optionally substituted with lower alkylene, or a bicyclic aromatic hetero cyclic group containing one or more nitrogen, oxygen or sulphur atoms. 3. A compound according to claim 1 or claim 2, in which R2 is a 4 halophenyl group. 4. A compound according to any one of claims 1 to 3, in which R1 is an indolylmethyl or 2 picolyl group. 5. A compound according to claim 1, of general formula III or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt, ester or bioprecursor thereofEMI34.1 wherein R2 is as defined with respect to formula II , R is phenyl optionally substituted with halogen or hydroxy, a 5 or 6 membered heterocyclic group containing one or more nitrogen, oxygen or sulphur atoms, or a bicyclic aromatic heterocyclic group containing one or more nitrogen, oxygen or sulphur atoms, x and y are each an integer of from 1 to 4, and Z is an oxygen or sulphur atom or is a bond. 6. A compound according to claim 5, in which R4 is a phenyl, 4 hydroxyphenyl, 4 chlorophenyl, indolyl or pyridyl group. 7. A compound according to claim 5 or 6, in which x and y are each 1 or 2. 8. A compound according to any one of claims 1 to 7, in the optically active L forr.. 9. A process for preparing a compound of formula II which comprises reacting an amino compound of formula IV EMI35.1 wherein R1 is as defined with respect to formula II and any reactive groups therein may be protected, and Rx is hydrogen or a carboxy blocking group, with a carbonyl compound of formula V R2 CHO V wherein R2 is as defined with respect to formula II and any reactive groups may be protected, followed by reduction of the resulting Schiff s base with â suitable hydridic reducing agent, or hydrogen in the presence of a catalyst and thereafter, if necessary, carrying out one or more of the following steps i removing any carboxyl blocking group RX ii removing any protecting groups on R1 or R2 iii converting the product into a pharmaceutically acceptable salt, ester or a pharmaceutically acceptable bioprecursor. 10. A process for preparing a compound of formula II , which comprises reacting a compound of the formula VI R1 CO CO RX VI in which R1 is as defined with respect to formula II and Rx is as defined with respect to formula IV with a compound of formula VII NH2 CH2 Rê VII in which R2 is as defined with respect to formula II , followed by reduction of the adduct. 11. A process for preparing a compound of formula II , which comprises reacting an amino compound of formula IV as defined in claim 9 with a compound of formula VIII R2 X VIII wherein R2 is as defined with respect to formula II , and any reactive groups may be protected, and X is a halide and thereafter where necessary carrying out steps i iii as described in claim 9. 12. A process for preparing a compound of formula II which comprises reducing with a hydridic reducing agent an N acyl compound of formula IX EMI37.1 wherein R1 and R2 are as defined with respect to formula II , Rx is hydrogen or a carboxyl blocking group, and thereafter, if necessary, carrying out one or ore of steps i iii as described in claim 9. 13. A pharmaceutical composition comprising a compound according to any one of claims 1 to 8, or when made by a process according to any one of claims 9 to 12 together with a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier or excipient. 14. A pharmaceutical composition according to claim 13, in unit dosage form. CLAIMS EMI38.1 1. A process for preparing a compound of formula II or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt, ester or bioprecursor thereof EMI38.2 wherein R1 represents an optionally substituted aryl, aralkyl, aromatic heterocyclic or aromatic heterocyclylalkyl group, and R2 represents a phenyl group optionally substituted with C16 alkyl, halogen, hydroxy, trifluoromethyl or methylenedioxy, with the proviso that when R1 is benzyl, R2 is phenyl, 4 chlorophenyl, 2 hydroxyphenyl, a C10H7 or C16H7 , the compound of formula II is not in the DL form, which comprises reacting an amino compound of formula IV EMI38.3 wherein R1 is as defined with respect to formula II and any reactive groups therein may be protected, and Rx is hydrogen or a carboxy blocking group, with a carbonyl compound of formula V R2 CHO V wherein R2 is as defined with respect to formula II and any reactive groups may be protected, followed by reduction of the resulting Schiff s base with a suitable hydridic reducing agent, or hydrogen in the presence of a catalyst and thereafter, if necessary, carrying out one or more of the following steps i removing any carboxyl blocking group RX ii removing any protecting groups on R1 or R iii converting the product into a pharmaceutically acceptable salt, ester or a pharmaceutically acceptable bioprecursor. 2. A process for preparing a compound of formula II defined in claim 1, which comprises reacting a compound of the formula VI R CO C02R VI in which R1 is as defined with respect to formula is II and Rx is as defined with respect to formula IV , with a compound of formula VII NH2 CH2 R2 VII in which R2 is as defined with respect to formula II , followed by reduction of the adduct. 3. A process for preparing a compound of formula II as defined in claim 1, which comprises reacting an amino compound of formula IV as defined in claim 1 with a compound of formula VIII R2 X VIII wherein R2 is as defined with respect to formula II , and any reactive groups may be protected, and X is a halide and thereafter where necessary carrying out steps i iii as described in claim 1. 4. A process for preparing a compound of formula II as defined in claim 1, which comprises reducing with a hydridic reducing agent an N acyl compound of formula IX EMI40.1 wherein R1 and R2 are as defined with respect to formula II , RX is hydrogen or a carboxylblocking group, and thereafter, if necessary, carrying out one or more of steps i iii as described in claim 1. 5. A process according to any one of claims 1 to 4, in which R1 represents phenyl or benzyl optionally substituted with halogen, lower alkyl or hydroxyl, or a 5 or 6 membered heterocyclic group containing one or more nitrogen, oxygen or sulphur atoms and optionally substituted with lower alkylene, or a bicyclic aromatic heterocyclic group containing one or more nitrogen, oxygen or sulphur atoms. 6. A process according to any one of claims 1 to 5, in which R2 is a 4 halophenyl group. 7. A process according to any one of claims 1 to 6, in which R1 is an indolylmethyl or 2 picolyl group. 8. A process according to any one of claims 1 to 7, in which the compound of formula II is in the optically active L form.

## Description
N Substituted amino Acids, Processes For Making Them And Pharmaceutical Compositions Containing Them This invention relates to a class of N substituted amino acids which are potentially useful in the treatment of atherosclerosis. The invention also relates to processes for the preparation of such compounds and pharmaceutical compositions comprising them. N Substituted a amino acids, in particularN benzyl a amino acids, have been used extensively as protected derivatives for use in peptide synthesis however, relatively few simple amino acid derivatives have been investigated in respect of bioactivity. The N substituted DL amino acids of formula I are known from J. Pharm. Soc. Japan, 1978, 98 7 869 879.EMI1.1 wherein R is phenyl and Ra is benzyl, 4 chlorobenzyl, 2 hydroxybenzyl, a CloH7CH2 t 6 cloH7cH2 and cyclo C6H11 and wherein R is hydrogen and Ra is benzyl and 4 chlorobenzyl. Biological tests, including antibacterial activity and the action on central nervous, circulation and muscular systems were carried out however, the publication discloses that none of the compounds showed much activity. It has now been found that a class of N substituted amino acids, many of which are novel compounds, promote a more favourable composition of lipoproteins in the bloodstream, i. e. they are either especially hyperalphalipoprotein aemic i.e. raise the bloodlevels of highensity lipoproteins HDL , with same hypobetalipoproteinagnic behaviour i.e.lower blood levels of the low density lipoproteins LDL and or the very low density lipoproteins VLDL or exert both effects. Accordingly the present invention provides an a amino acid derivative of formula II or a pharmacertically acceptable salt, ester or bioprecursor thereof EMI2.1 wherein R1 represents an optionally substituted aryl, aralkyl, aromatic heterocyclic or aromatic heterocyclylalkyl group, and R2 represents a phenyl group optionally substituted with C16 alkyl, halogen, hydroxy, trifluoromethyl or methylenedioxy, with the proviso that when R1 is benzyl, R2 is phenyl, 4 chlorophenyl, 2 hydroxyphenyl, a C10H7 or 6 CloH7 the compound of formula II is not in the DL form. Preferably R1 represents phenyl or benzyl optionally substituted with halogen, lower alkyl or hydroxyl, or a 5 or 6 membered heterocyclic group containing one or more nitrogen, oxygen or sulphur atoms and optionally substituted with lower alkylene, or a bicyclic aromatic heterocyclic group containing one or more nitrogen, oxygen or sulphur atoms. Preferred R1 groups are indolylmethyl, or 2 picolyl. A preferred R2 group is the 4 halophenyl group, particularly 4 chlorophenyl. Compounds of formula II contain at least one assymetric carbon atom marked by the a and hence may exist in two optically active forms the D form and the L form or as an optically inactive racemate.Included within the scope of this invention, therefore, are the substantially pure optical isomers, the racemate and mixtures thereof. Preferably the compounds II are in the substantially pure L form. The term pharmaceutically acceptable bioprecursor used above requires some explanation. It is, of course, common practice in pharmaceutical chemistry to overcome some undesirable physical or chemical property of drug by converting the drug into a chemical derivative which does not suffer from that undesirable property, but which, upon administration to an animal or human being, is converted back to the parent drug. For example, if the drug is not well absorbed when given to the animal or patient, by the oral route, it may be possible to convert the drug into a chemical derivative which is well absorbed and which in the serum or tissues is reconverted to the parent drug.For example, if the drug is unstable in solution, it may be possible to prepare a chemical derivative of the drug which is stable and may be administered in solution, but which is reconverted in the body to give the parent drug. The pharmaceutical chemist is well aware of the possibility of overcoming intrinsic deficiencies in a drug by chemical modifications which are only temporary and are reversible upon administration to the animal or patient. For the purpose of this specification the term 1,pharmaceutically acceptable bioprecursor of a drug means a compound having structural formula different from the drug which nonetheless, upon administration to an animal or human being, is converted in the patient s body to the drug. Suitable pharmaceutically acceptable bioprecursors include in vivo hydrolysable ester groups. Examples of groups which hydrolyse readily in the body to produce the parent acid include acyloxyalkyl groups such as acetoxymethyl, pivaloyloxymethyl, a acetoxyethyl, a acetoxybenzyl and a pivaloyloxyethyl groups alkoxycarbonyloxyalkyl groups, such as ethoxycarbonyloxymethyl and a ethoxycarbonyloxyethyl dialkylaminoalkyl groups such as dimethylaminomethyl, dimethylaminoethyl, diethylaminomethyl or diethylaminoethyl and lactone groups such as phthalidyl. Suitable carboxylic acid salts of compound II include alkali metal salts such as lithium, sodium and potassium, other metal salts such as barium, calcium, aluminium or ammonium or substituted ammonium salts. Suitable acid addition salts of compound II included inorganic salts such as the sulphate, nitrate, phosphate and borate, hydrohalides such as the hydrochloride, hydrobromide and hydroiodide, and organic acid addition salts such as acetate, oxalate, tartrate, maleate, citrate, succinate, benzoate, ascorbate, methanesulphonate and p toluenesulphonate. Preferred esters of the compounds of formula II are lower alkyl esters, particularly the methyl ester. A sub group of compounds within the scope of this invention comprises compounds of formula III or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt, ester or bioprecursor thereof EMI5.1 wherein R2 is as defined with respect to formula II ,R4 is phenyl optionally substituted with halogen or hydroxy, a 5 or 6 membered heterocyclic group containing one or more nitrogen, oxygen or sulphur atoms, or a bicyclic aromatic heterocyclic group containing one or more nitrogen, oxygen or sulphur atoms, x and y are each an integer of from 1 to 4, and Z is an oxygen or sulphur atom or is a bond. Preferably R4 is phenyl, 4 hydroxyphenyl, 4chlorophenyl, indolyl or pyridyl. Preferably, x and y are each lor 2. The compounds of this invention may be prepared by reacting an amino compound of formula IV EMI6.1 wherein R1 is as defined with respect to formula II and any reactive groups therein may be protected, andRx is hydrogen or a carboxy blocking group, with a carbonyl compound of either formula V R2 CHO V wherein R2 is as defined with respect to formula II and any reactive groups may be protected, followed by reduction of the resulting Schiff s base with a suitable hydridic reducing agent, or hydrogen in the p esence of a catalyst and thereafter, if necessary, carrying out one or ..ore of the following steps i removing any carboxyl blocking group RX ii removing any protecting groups on R1 or R2 iii converting the product into a pharmaceutically acceptable salt, ester or a pharmaceutically acceptable bioprecursor. Suitable carboxyl blocking derivatives for the group group C02R in formula 11 include salts and ester derivatives of the carboxylic acid. The derivative is preferably one which may readily be cleaved at a later stage of the reaction. Suitable salts include tertiary amine salts, such as those with tri lower alkylamines,N ethylpiperidine, 2,6 lutidine, pyridine, N methylpyrrolidine, dimethylpiperazine. Suitable ester forming carboxyl blocking groups are those which may be removed under conventional conditions. Such groups for Rx include methyl, ethyl, benzyl, p methoxybenzyl, 2,4 ,6 trimethylbenzyl, 3,5 di tbutyl 4 hydroxybenzyl, benzoylmethyl, p nitrobenzyl, 4 pyridylmethyl, 2,2,2 trichloroethyl, 2,2,2 tribromoethyl, t butyl, t amyl, diphenylmethyl, triphenylmethyl, adamantyl, 2 benzyloxyphenyl, 4 methylthiophenyl, tetrahydrofur 2 yl, tetrahydropyran 2 yl, pentachlorophenyl, p toluenesulphonylethyl, methoxymethyl, a silyl, stannyl or phosphoruscontaining group, such as described above, or an in vivo hydrols,rsable ester radical such as defined above. The carboxyl group may be regenerated from any of the above esters by usual methods appropriate to the particular Rx group, for example, acid and base catalysed hydrolysis, or by enzymically catalysed hydrolysis, or by hydrogenation. The formation of the Schiff s base is carried out in an organic solvent or solvent mixture and, depending upon the stability of the Schiff s base, it may be isolated and purified or partially purified before reduction. The choice of organic solvent and reaction conditions will be influenced by the solubility and reactivity of the starting materials and the resultingSchiff s base. The reaction is generally carried out in a hydrocarbon or ethereal solvent at a moderate temperature i.e. greater than room temperature, the reflux temperature of the solvent being selected for convenience. The period for which the reaction is allowed to proceed depends upon the particular starting materials employed. The course of the reaction may be followed by conventional methods such as thin layer chromatography and terminated when an optimum quantity of product is present in the reaction mixture. Suitable hydridic reducing agents for reduction of the Schiff s base include sodium borohydride and borane trimethylamine complex. Suitable reaction solvents and reaction conditions are discussed in H.0. House Modern Synthetic Reactions 2nd edition chapter 2. Suitable catalysts for use in the catalytic hydrogenation of the Schiff s base include platinum oxide and Raney nickel. In cases where the Schiff s base is unstable or where isolation of the Schiff s base is undesirable the amino compound of formula IV and carbonyl compound of formula l v may be dissolved or suspended in organic solvent, mixed, and reduced in situ with a hydridic reducing agent. Suitable hydridic reducing agents include sodium cyanoborohydride which is preferably used in a protic solvent such as an alcohol, in particular methanol. The compounds of the present invention may also be prepared by reacting a compound of the formula VI R1 CO C02RX VI in which R1 is as defined with respect to formula II and Rx is as defined with respect to formula IV with a compound of formula VII NH2 CH2 R VII in which R2 is as defined with respect to formula II followed by reduction of the adduct. A further process for preparing the compounds of the present invention comprises the reaction of an amino compound of formula IV as defined hereinbefore with a compound of formula VIII R2 x VIII wherein R2 is as defined with respect of formula II , and any reactive groups may be protected, and X is a halide and thereafter where necessary carrying out steps i iii as described hereinbefore. PreferablyX is chloride, bromide or iodide. The compounds of the present invention may also be prepared by reducing with a hydridic reducing agent an N acyl compound of formula IX EMI9.1 wherein RÚ and Rê are as defined with respect to formula II , Rx is hydrogen or a carboxyl bloc iing group, and thereafter if necessary carrying out one or more of steps i iii as described hereinbefore. Suitable hydridic reducing agents include the borane dimethylsulphide complex which is conveniently used in ethereal solvents such as tetrahydrofuran. The N acyl compounds of formula IX nay be prepared by reacting an amino compound of formula VI as defined hereinbefore wherein the amino group is optionally substituted with a group which permits acylation to take place, and wherein RX is hydrogen or a carboxyl blocking group, with an N acylating deriv ative of an acid of formula X Rê.C02H X wherein R2 is as defined with respect to formula II above. Suitable groups which permit acylation to take place and which are optionally present on the amino group of the starting material of the formula X include N silyl, N stannyl and N phosphorus groups, for example trialkylsilyl groups such as trimethylsilyl. A reactive N acylating derivative of the acid X is employed in the above process. The choice of reactive derivative will of course be influenced by the chemical nature of the substituents of the acid. Suitable N acylating derivatives include an acid halide, preferably the acid chloride or bromide.Acylation with an acid halide may be affected in the presence of an acid binding agent for example tertiary amine such as triethylamine or dimethylamiline , an inorganic base such as calcium carbonate or sodium bicarbonate or an oxirane, which binds hydrogen halide liberated in the acylation reaction. The oxirane is preferably a C16 1,2 a1ky1ene oxide , such as ethylene oxide or propylene oxide. The acid halide may be prepared by reacting the acid x or a salt thereof with a halogenating e.g. chlorinating or brominating agent such as phosphorus pentachloride, thionyl chloride or oxalyl chloride. Alternatively, the N acylating derivative of the acid X may be symmetrical or mixed anhydride. Suitable mixed anhydrides are alkoxyformic anhydrides. Alternative N acylating derivatives of acid X are the acid azide, or activated esters such as esters with 2 mercaptopyridine, cyanomethanol, p nitrophenol, 2,4 dimitrophenol, thiophenol, halophenols, including pentachlorophenol, monomethoxyphenol or 8 hydroxyquinoline or amides such as N acylsaccharins or N acylphthalimides or an alkylidene iminoester prepared by reaction of the acid X with an oxime. Other reactive N acylating derivatives of the acid X include the reactive intermediate formed by reaction in situ with a condensing agent such as a carbodiimide, for example N,N diethyl , dipropyl or diisopropylcarbodiimide, or N ,N dicyclohexylcarbodiimide. The condensation reaction is preferably carried out in an organic reaction medium, for example methylene chloride, dimethylformamide, acetonitrile, alcohol, benzene, dioxan, or tetrahydrofuran. In order to put the compounds of the invention to use as medicinal agents, they are presented as pharmaceutical compositions in a variety of dosage forms. This invention therefore also includes a pharmaceutical composition which comprises a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier or excipient together with a compound of formula II or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt, ester or bioprecursor thereof. The compositions may be formulated for administration by any route, although an oral administration is preferred. The compositions may be in the form of tablets, capsules, powders, granules, lozenges, or liquid preparations, such as oral or sterile parenteral solutions or suspensions. Unit dose presentations forms for oral administration may be tablets and capsules and may contain conventional excipients such as binding agents, for example syrup, acacia, gelatin, sorbitol, tragacanth, or polyvinylpyrollidone fillers, for example lactose, sugar, maize starch, calcium phosphate, sorbitol or glycine tabletting lubricants, for example magnesium stearate disintegrants, for example starch or sodium starch glycollate or pharmaceutically acceptable wetting agents such as sodium lauryl sulphate. The tablets may be coated according to methods well known in normal pharmaceutical practice. Oral liquid preparations may be in the form of, for example, aqueous or oily suspensions, solutions, emulsions, syrups, or elixirs, or may be presented as a dry product for reconstitution with eater or other suitable vehicle before use.Such liquid preparations may contain conventional additives such as suspending agents, for example sorbitol, syrup, methyl cellulose, gelatin, hydroxyethylcellulose, carboxymethyl cellulose, aluminium stearate gel or hydrogenated edible fats, emulsifying agents, for example lecithin, sorbitan monooleate, or acacia non aqueous vehicles which may include edible oils , for example almond oil, fractionated coconut oil, oily esters such as glycerine, propylene glycol, or ethyl alcohol preservatives, for example methyl or propyl p hydroxybenzoate or sorbic acid, and if desired conventional flavouring or colouring agents. For parenteral administration, fluid unit dosage forms are prepared utilizing the compound and a sterile vehicle, and depending on the concentration used, can be either suspended or dissolved in the vehicle. In preparing solutions the compound can be dissolved in water for injection and filter sterilized before filling into a suitable vial or ampoule and sealing. Advantageously, adjuvants such as a local anaesthetic, preservative and buffering agents can be dissolved in the vehicle. To enhance the stability, the composition can be frozen after filling into the vial and the water removed under vacuum. Parenteral suspensions are prepared in substantially the same manner except that the compound is suspended in the vehicle instead of being dissolved and sterilization cannot be accomplished by filtration.The compound can be sterilized by exposure to ethylene oxide before suspending in the sterile vehicle. Advantageously, a surfactant or wetting agent is included in the composition to facilitate uniform distribution of the compound. The compositions may contain from 0.1 to 99 by weight, preferably from 10 60 by weight, of the active material, depending on the method of administration.The dosage employed for adult treatment will of course depend on the dose response characteristics of the particular active ingredient but will normally be in the range 50 mg to 5 g day. The following Examples illustrate the preparation of the compounds of this invention. Example 1Preparation of N 3,4 methylenedioxybenzyl L phenylalanineEMI15.1 To a mixture of L phenylalanine 3.3g, 20mM and piperonal 3.0g, 20mM in methanol 20ml was added sodium cyanoborohydride 1.26g, 20mM portionwise over ten minutes. The reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for two hours, acidified with 10 hydrochloric acid then brought to pH 6 with 10 sodium hydroxide solution. The precipitate was filtered off, washed with water and methanol and then dried under vacuum to yield N 3 ,4 methylenedioxybenzyl L phenylalanine 3.7 g 62 as a white micro crystalline solid m.p. 2260 dec . Found, C, 67.75 H, 5.97 N, 4.70 C17H17N04 requiresC, 68.21 H, 5.73 N, 4.67 vmax KBr , 1620 cm 20 0 max a D 27.5 in 6N HCl AcOH 1.1. 6 dl TFA 3.5 2H, m , 4.5 3H, m , 6.02 2H, s , 6.84 3H, m , 7.18 5H, m . Example 2Preparation of N 4 chlorobenzyl L phenylalanineEMI16.1 A mixture of L phenylalanine 20g, 0.12M and 4 chlorobenzylaldehyde 16.9g, 0.12M in methanol 300 ml was stirred at room temperature for 30 minutes then sodium cyanoborohydride .6g, 0.12M added in one portion. The reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature overnight.The precipitate was then filtered off and washed well with methanol and water and dried under vacuum to yield N 4 chlorobenzyl Lphenylalanine 20g, 58 as a white microcrystalline solid m.p. 229 230 dec Found, C, 65.96 H, 5.65 N, 4.77 C1, 12.39 C16H16C1N02 requires C, 66.32 H, 5.56 N 4.83 Cl, 12.24 . vial KBr 1620 cm 20 o CL D 30.47 in 6NHCl AcOH, 1 1 6 dl TFA , 3.45 2H, m , 4.45 3H m , 7.4 9H, m The compounds of Examples 3 to 10 were prepared using the method described in Example 2. Example 3N 4 Chlorobenzyl D phenylalanineEMI17.1 m.p. 222 224 dec . Found, C, 66.12 H, 5.18 N, 4.76 Cl 12.58 C16H16C1NO2 requires C, 66.32 H, 5.56 N, 4.83 C1, 12.34 . v KBr 1620 cm a 20 29.6 in 6N HCl AcOH, 1 1. dl TFA 3.46 2H, m , 4.40 3H, m , 7.30 9H, m Example 4N 4 Bromobenzyl L phenylalanineEMI18.1 m.p. 226 228 dec . Found, C, 57.28 H, 4.90 N, 4.35 Br 23.60 C16H16BrN02 requires C, 57.49 H, 4.83 N, 4.18 Br 23.91 . max KBr 1570 cm Ú. alpha 20 D 26.0 in 6N HCl AcOH, 1 1. dl TFA , 3.5 2H, m , 4.45 3H, m , 7.3 9H, m .Example 5N 3 Trifluoromethylbenzyl L phenylalanineEMI18.2 m.p. 208 210 dec . Found C, 63.48 H, 5.19 N, 4.33 C17Hl6F3NO2 requires C, 63.15 H, 4.99 N, 4.33 . max KBr 1620 cm Ú . alpha 20 D 33.8 in 6N HC1 AcOH 1 1 d1 TFA , 3.5 2H, m 4.5 3H, m , 7.5 9H, m . Example 6N 4 Hydroxybenzyl L phenylalanineEMI19.1 m.p. 224 226 dec . Found C, 71.07 H, 6.32 N, 5.118 C16H17NO3 requires C, 70.83 H, 6.32 N, 5.16 . N KBr 1780 cm 1 1 TUFA 3.5 2H, m , 4.4 3H, m , 7.2 9H, m .Example 7N 4 Chlorobenzyl DL 4 chlorophenylalanineEMI19.2 m.p. 214 217 Found, C, 59.07 H, 4.70 N, 4.49 C1, 21.58 C16H15C12N02 requires C, 59.27 H, 4.66 N, 4.32 C1, 21.87 . max KBr 1605 cm Ú. 6 dl TFA , 3.43 3H, m , 4.43 3H, m 7.26 8H, 2 overlapping ABq . Example 8N 4 Chlorobenzyl S benzyl L cysteineEMI20.1 m.p. 201 202 Found C, 59.98 H, 5.44 N, 4.22 C1, 10.82 S, 9.48 C17H18C1NO2S requires C, 60.80 H, 5.40 N, 4.17 C1, 10.56 S, 9.53 . max KBr 1610 cm Ú. a 20 21.80 in 6NHCl AcOH 1 1. 6 TFA 3.2 2H m , 3.7 2H, s , 4.0 1H, br s , 4.2 2H, m , 7.4 9H, m .Example 9 N 4 Chlorobenzyl L a aminobenzeneacetic acidEMI20.2 m.p. 212 213 . Found C, 64.9 H, 4.94 N, 5.08 C1, 12.84 C15H14C1N02 requires C, 65.34 H, 5.08 N, 5.08 C1, 12.87 . max KBr 1565 cm Ú. alpha D 20 127.99 in 6NHCl AcOH 1 1. TFA d1 4.4 2H, s , 5.25 lH, s , 7.5 9H, m . Example 10N 4 Chlorobenzyl D alpha aminobenzeneacetic acidEMI21.1 m.p. 214 215 . Found C, 64.79 H, 5.07 N, 5.36 C1, 13.13 C15H14C1N02 requires C, 65.34 H, 5.08 N, 5.08 Cl, 12.87 . N KBr 1565 125.82 in 6NHCl Ac0H 1 1. 6 TFA d1 4.4 2H, s , 5.25 1H, s , 7.5 9H, m .Example 11Preparation of DL 2 4 Chlorobenzylamino 3 2 pyridyl propionic acidEMI21.2 A mixture of DL ss 2 pyridyl alanine dihydrobromide 4.94g, 15mM in water 50ml was neutralised to pH 7 with solid sodium carbonate. Methanol 25mL , 4 chlorobenzaldehyde 2.81g, 20mM and sodium cyanoborohydride 4.0g 64mM were added and the mixture stirred at room temperature for 18 hours. The white precipitate which formed was filtered off, washed with water and methanol and dried to give DL 2 4 chlorobenzylamino 3 2 pyridyl propionic acid 1.5g 34 as a white microcrystalline solid, m.p. 214 215 . Found C, 61.63 H, 5.15 N, 9.27 C1, 12.15 . C15H15C1N202 requires C, 61.96 H, 5.20 N, 9.64 C1, 12.20 . max KBr 1612 cm 1. dl TFA , 4.13 2H, m , 4.63 2H, m , 4.86 1H, m , 7.47 4H, S , 8.13 2H, m and 8.70 2H, m . The compound of Example 12 was also prepared using the method described in Example 11. Example 12DL 2 4 Chlorobenzylamino 3 4 pyridyl propionic acidEMI23.1 sublimes 250253O. Found C, 61.76 H, 5.02 N, 9.50 C1, 12.24 . C15H15C1N202 requires C, 61.90 H, 5.20 N, 9.64 Cl, 12.208 . vmax KBr 1615cm . 6 dl TFA max 3.87 2H, m , 4.56 2H, S , 4.80 1H, m , 7.45 4H, S , 8.13 2H, d, J6Hz and 8.78 2H, d, J6Hz .Example 13An alternative method of preparation of DL 2 4 Chloro benzylamino 3 2 pyridyl propionic acidEMI23.2 A mixture of DL ss 2 pyridyl alanine hydrobromide 12.3g, 37mM in water lOOml was neutralised to pH 7 by stirring with excess of a prewashed ion exchange resin Amberlite IR 45 OH . Filtration and evaporation of the filtrate to dryness gave the free amino acid 5.1g, 30mM , m.p. 208 210 C Lit. m.p. 209 212 C . The free amino acid 5.lg, 30mM was redissolved in water 100 mL and methanol 50mL , 4 chlorobenzaldehyde 4.5g, 30mM and sodium cyano borohydride 6.0g were added. After stirring the mixture at room temperature for 18 hours the dense white precipitate was filtered off, washed with water and methanol and dried to give DL 2 4 chlorobenzylamino 3 2 pyridyl propionic acid as a white microcrystalline solid 2.4g, 27 . Physical constants and spectral data identical to those given for Example 11. G. Slater and A.W. Somerville, Tetrahedron, 23 2823 1967 Example 14N 4 Chlorobenzyl DL tryptophanEMI25.1 A mixture of DL tryptophan methyl ester 4.2 g, l9mM and 4 chlorobenzaldehyde 2.48 g, 18mM in benzene 100 ml was heated under reflux using a Dean and Stark apparatus for 5 minutes. The reaction mixture was cooled and evaporated to dryness to yield the crude Schiff s base, 8 g, N KBr 638, 1730, max 3330 cm This was hydrogenated at atmospheric pressure in methanol 100 ml with platinum oxide 200 mg catalyst until one equivalent of hydrogen had been absorbed. The catalyst was filtered off and the solvent evaporated to yield N 4 chlorobenzyl DLtryptophan methyl ester, 6 g, as a yellow oil which crystallised on standing, m.p. 96 97 , vmax KBr 1730 cm Hydrolysis of the methyl ester was accomplished by heating under reflux for 2 hours with aqueous methanolic sodium hydroxide 1.5 g, NaOH in 100 ml, 50 H20 MeOH . The reaction mixture was cooled, the methanol removed under reduced pressure and the residual aqueous solution diluted to 100 ml. This solution was extracted with chloroform to remove impurities, and the aqueous layer acidified with 2N hydrochloric acid.The precipitated product was filtered, washed well with water and dried under vacuum to yield pure N 4 chlorobenzyl DL tryptophan 2.6 g, 45 as a white solid, m.p. 223 228 dec . Found C, 65.50 H, 5.19 N, 8.34 C1, 10.82 M 328. C18H17C1N202 requires C, 65.75 H, 5.21 N, 8.52 l Cl, 10.78 M 328 . vmax KBr 1575, 1585, 3485 cm 6 d6 DMSO , 3.1 2H, m 3.4 1H, m , 3.88 2H, d,J 3Hz , 6.0 2H, broad s, D20 exchangeable , 7.25 9H, m 10.82 1H, s, D20 exchangeable . The following compound was also prepared by the method described in Example 14.Example 15 DL 2 4 Chlorobenzylamino 4 phenylbutyric acidEMI26.1 m.p. 236 237 Found C, 67.10, H, 5.97 N, 4.82 C1, 11.98 C17H18ClN02 requires C, 67.21 H 6.64 N, 4.61 C1, 12.25 . vmax KBr 1580 cm 1. 6 dl TFA 2.5 2H, m , 2.95 2H, m , 4.2 3H, m , 7.25 9H, m . Example 16Preparation of essentially racemised N 4 chlorobenzyl a aminobenzeneacetic acidEMI27.1 Optically pure L a aminobenzeneacetic acid 20 154.50 in 1N HC1 was converted to the methyl ester hydrochloride by treatment with refluxing methanolic hydrogen chloride. The amino ester, liberated from the hydrochloride salt by dilute sodium bicarbonate solution, was converted to N 4 chlorobenzyl a amino benzeneacetic acid as described in Example 14.m.p. 2500 Found, C, 64.72, H, 4.95 N, 4.98 C1, 13.24 C15H14C1N02 requires C, 65.34 H, 5.08 N, 5.08 Cl, 12.87 . max KBr 1585 cm . a D20 1.28 in 6N HC1 AcOH 1 1. dl TFA 4.4 2H, s , 5.28 1H, s , 7.5 9H, m Example 17 N 4 chlorobenzyl tyrosine EMI28.1 Starting from L tyrosine and proceeding as Example 16, N 4 chlorobenzyl tyrosine was prepared, m.p. 220 2220C 20 alpha D20 0 dec , a 20 4.06 in 6NHC1 AcOH 1 1, Found C, 62.37 H, 4.94 N, 4.44, C1, 11.36 C16H16NO3Cl requires C, 62.85 H, 5.28 N, 4.58 C1, 11.60 . max KBr 1585 cm 1 6 d, TFA , 3.40 2H,m , 4.40 3H,m , 7.03 4H,A2B2, J 7Hz , 7.30 4H,A2B2, J 7Hz . Example 18Preparation of N 4 chlorobenzyl L phenylalanine methyl esterEMI29.1 Triethylamine 3.2 ml, 2.48g, 23.18 mM was added to L phenylalanine methyl ester hydrochloride 5g 23.18 mmole in ethanol 70 ml and the mixture stirred briefly. To this solution 4 chlorobenzaldehyde 3.24g, 23.18 mM and Adams catalyst 300 mg was added and the mixture hydrogenated at atmospheric pressure and room temperature. After one equivalent of hydrogen had been absorbed, the reaction was stopped celite added and the mixture filtered through celite.Evaporation of the solvent yielded an oil which was partitioned between water and ether, the organic layer was washed well with water then dried anhyd. MgS04 . Removal of the drying agent and solvent yielded N 4 chlorobenzyl L phenylalanine methyl ester as an oil 5.8g 68 Found M 303.1051 C17H18C1N02 requires 303.1026 . N film 1745cm 1. 6 CHC13 , 1.85 1H, s , 3.0 max 2H, d J 6Hz , 3.5 lH, ABX, JAX 6Hz, JAB 1Hz , 3.75 5H, m 7.2 9H, m . Example 19N 4 Chlorobenzyl L phenylalanine methyl ester hydrochlorideEMI30.1 N 4 Chlorobenzyl L phenylalanine methyl ester 1.1 g from previous example in dry ether 20 ml was treated with dry ether saturated with hydrogen chloride until no further precipitate formed.The solid was filtered off and recrystallised from isopropyl alcohol dry diethyl ether to yield N 4 chlorobenzyl L phenylalanine methyl ester hydrochloride as white needles 0.82 g, 66 m.p. 148 150 FoundC, 60.12 H, 5.28 N, 4.11 C1, 20.82 C17HlgCl2N202 requires C, 60.00 H, 5.63 N, 4.12 C1 20.84 . max KBr 1750 cm 1. a D 32.94 in 6NHCl AcOH, 1 1 6 CDC13 , 3.6 6H, singlet on a complex multiplet 4.18 2H, s , 7.4 9H, m . For each of the above examples, the other optical forms of the compounds L , D or DL may be prepared using an appropriate optical form L , D or DL of amino acid reactant. Thus, N 4 chlorobenzyl D phenylalanine may be prepared by using D phenylalamine in place of L phenylalanine in Example 2. Similarly, L or D 2 4 chlorobenzylamino 3 2 pyridyl propionic acid may be prepared by using D or L ss 2 pyridyl alanine in place of DL ss 2 pyridyl alanine in Example 11. Biological Data The compounds of the Examples above were tested for their effects on serum lipids in vivo using normolipidaemic rats. Protocol Male Sprague Dawley rats, 80 100 g, were randomised into groups of 8 after 5 7 days of feeding on the diet. The compounds were fed to the rats at a concentration of 0.1 of the powered diet i.e. approximately 100 mg kg day , unless otherwise stated. The control groups were fed only the diet. At the end of the experiment, i.e.after 7 days, the rats were killed and their individual total serum cholesterol and triglyceride measured in mg 100 ml using a Technicon Autoanalyser. The high density lipoprotein HDL cholesterol fraction, which was obtained from the serum by precipitation with heparin manganous chloride, was only measured on pooled samples from each group. The results are shown in Table 1 below.Model A used an Oxoid diet. Model B used a semi synthetic diet rich in sucrose and cholesterol TABLE 1EMI32.1 tb SEP Percentage SEP differencef SEP from SEP control SEP values SEP in tb SEP Compound SEP of SEP Rat tb SEP Example SEP No. SEP Model SEP Total SEP Serum SEP Total SEP Serum SEP High SEP Density tb SEP cholesterol SEP triglyceride SEP lipo protein SEP HDL tb SEP cholesterol SEP tb SEP SEP tb SEP 1 SEP A SEP SEP 8 SEP 31 SEP SEP 10 tb SEP SEP tb SEP 2 SEP A SEP 31 SEP 40 SEP SEP 20 tb SEP SEP tb SEP B SEP 14 SEP 44 SEP SEP 24 tb SEP SEP tb SEP 3 SEP B SEP 49 SEP 67 SEP SEP 68 tb SEP 4 SEP A SEP 43 SEP 40 SEP SEP 40 tb SEP SEP tb SEP 5 SEP A SEP 47 SEP 41 SEP SEP 51 tb SEP 6 SEP A SEP SEP 9 SEP SEP 3 SEP SEP 14 tb SEP SEP tb SEP 7 SEP A SEP 56 SEP 50 SEP SEP 66 tb SEP SEP tb SEP 8 SEP A SEP 52 SEP 35 SEP SEP 61 tb SEP tb SEP 11 SEP B SEP 27 SEP 27 SEP SEP 43 tb SEP 12 SEP B SEP 10 SEP 10 SEP SEP 14 tb SEP SEP tb SEP 14 SEP A SEP 36 SEP SEP 8 SEP SEP 29 tb SEP 15 SEP A SEP 68 SEP 11 SEP SEP 62 tb SEP 16 SEP A SEP 79 SEP SEP 7 SEP 104 tb 17 SEP 17 SEP A SEP SEP 9 SEP 18 SEP SEP 18 tb SEP tb 18 SEP A SEP 25 SEP 43 SEP SEP 56 tb This compound was tested at 0.05 of the diet Analysis carried out on pooled samples indicates lower and indicates higher than control values Statistically significant at p 0.05