# Process for the thickening of organic liquids and product thereof.

## Abstract
Organic C₅ 14 hydrocarbon liquids are thickened or gelled by addition of barium di dodecylbenzene sulphonate in neutral form at concentrations of 0,1 to 20 by weight. The wa ter content of the barium compound is from 0.1 to 5 by weight.

## Claims
PROCESS FOR THE THICKENING OF ORGANIC LIQUIDS ANDPRODUCT THEREOFCLAIMSI. A process for thickening organic hydrocarbon liquids containing from five to fourteen carbon atoms which comprises dissolving therein barium di dodecylbenzene sulphonate in essentially neutral form at a concentration in the range 0, 1 to 20 by weight, the water content of the barium compound being from 0, 1 to 5 by weight of that compound. 2. A process according to claim 1 in which the water concentration is from 0, 5 to 3, by weight of the barium compound. 3. A process according to Claim 1 or claim 2 in which the amount of barium compound is from 1, 0 to 5 by weight of the organic liquid used. 4. Thickened hydrocarbon liquids containing essentially neutral barium di dodecylbenzene sulphonate in a concentration of 0, 1 to 20 by weight, the total amount of water present, calculated on the weight of the barium compound not exceeding 5 by weight thereof.

## Description
PROCESS FOR THE THICKENING OF ORGANIC LIQUIDS ANDPRODUCT THEREOF Metal salts of fatty acids, in particular aluminium soaps derived from fatty acids such as lauric, naphthenic, and oleic acids and from mixed fatty acids derived from coconut oil, have been used to prepare gels of hydrocarbon liquids, notably gasoline fuels. Such gels are, however, unstable in the presence of various substances.Formulations based on naturally occuring materials also tend to be variable in performance. We have now found that barium digdodecyl benzene sulphonate is capable of thickening certain organic liquids, in a rather specific manner. Alkali metal sulphonates are described extensively in the literature. Calcium and barium are commonly used metals and the sulphonate may be essentially pure material, or, more commonly a mixed petroleum sulphonate with a given average molecular weight.The stoichiometry of the compound is variable. For many applications excess base is present. US Patent 3 694 179 describes methods of making overbased barium dodecylbenzene sulphonate. By the term overbased is therein meant containing a greater than stoichiometric amount of barium for full neutralisation of the sulphonic acid. Water is present in the reactions involved which is later distilled off and a solution of the desired overbased sulphonate is obtained in xylene, which gels after the xylene is distilled off.The product re dissolves in benzene. We have found that while overbased barium dodecylbenzene sulphonate has a lower tendency to gel certain hydrocarbon solvents, the neutral material has a much higher tendency to gel such solvents. Overbased metal including barium sulphonates are known from U.K. Patent 1 155 203 as additives for lubricating oils, that is, oils of high carbon number, say C16 and above. At page 4 line 67 et seq. the known relationship of increased viscosity with degree of overbasing is discussed. Surprisingly the metal sulphonate system of the present invention shows a contrary result. Overbased and neutral metal sulphonates and their solutions in organic solvents are mentioned in UK Patents 920 035, 944 218, 1 472 735 and 1 172 779 and US Patents 4 145 302. UK Patent 1 222 770 describes the production of calcium and barium sulphonates and their eventual solution in high molecular weight paraffinic oil. aIn Example 4 a solution of propylene polymer mol wt 430 alkylated benzene sulphonate in paraffin oil viscosity 105 SUS at 37. 8 C is reacted with barium nitrate and baryta to give a neutral product. The concentration of active material is at least 35 by weight and even so, a non gelled material is obtained. With barium chloride a gel is obtained. The present invention shows effects quite. contrary to such observations since low concentrations of the selected barium compound in low molecular weight solvents gel, while high molecular weight solvents do not gel. US Patent 3 311 567 describes 1 I 0 by weight solutions of alkali and alkaline earth metal solutions in organic solvents such as benzene. The sulphonates described are mixed hydrocarbon sulphonates and we have found that such materials give solutions as promised in that specification no gels are formed. Barium di dodecylbenzene sulphonate as such is not proposed in US Patent specification 3 311 567. Indeed, that compound has Åa molecular weight of around 770 800 which is higher than the upper limit of 700 proposed in the above US specification. However the basis for the calculatA5n of the figure of 700 therein is not clear.It has been found that Wnder specified conditions low concentrations of certain barium sulphonates give especially useful and unexpected results. The present invention provides a process for thickening organic hydrocarbon liquids containing from five to fourteen carbon atoms which comprises dissolving therein barium di dodecylbenzene sulphonate in essentially neutral form at a concentration in the range v 0, 1 to 20 by weight, the water content of the barium compount being from 0, 1 to 5 by weight of that compound, The water content is critical. The technically interesting aspect of the invention is the formation of a gel and for a given solvent there is an optimum water concentration. This is typically in the range 0, 5 to 3,0 by weight of the barium compound, preferably 1, 5 to 3, 0 .The amount of barium compound used is less critical and will depend more on the degree of thickening required 0, 5 to I, 0 gives weak gels, 1, 0 to 8 gives stronger gels, above this level very strong gels may be obtained which may be too stiff to handle for some applications. 1, 0 to 5 is usually the most cost effective amount. By essentially neutral we mean a barium compound not containing significant excess of containing either acid or base In practice this is conveniently defined in terms of pH of an aqueous dispersion of the barium compound to be used. It should be in the range 5 to 10, preferably 6 to 9, more preferably 6, 5 to 8, 5.High pH eg. above 10 is characteristic of the overbased materials discussed above. Hydrocarbons with or containing more than 14 carbon atoms are not effectively thickened. Thus lubricating oil and crude oil is not usefully thickened and chlorinated hydrocarbons are not thickenedGels can be broken by the addition of polar solvents, such as acetone. The thickening effect of barium di dodecyl benzene sulphonate is most marked in the case of aliphatic hydrocarbons, of for example n hexane. More polar liquids may also be thickened effectively for example aromatic hydrocarbons such as xylene and benzene , gasoline and white spirit . The invention therefore also provides thickened hydrocarbon liquids containing essentially neutral barium di dodecyl benzene sulphonate in a concentration of 0, 1 to 20 by weight, the total amount of water present, calculated on the weight of the barium compound not exceeding 5 by weight thereof. The origin of the water is not especially important it may be provided by the barium compound or the system to be thickened. The gel will tolerate the presence of dissolved and suspended additives to an extent dependent upon the physical state solubility and polarity of the additive. The limit of concentration of additive is best determined by small scale trial. Insoluble solids such as salts and pigments are well tolerated. Higher molecular weight hydrocarbons, chlorinated hydrocarbons, or surface active agents are also useable in amounts up to about 955 preferably up to 70 , weight even though they do not produce gels alone. Some gels have thixtotropic properties which may be useful in some applica tion. Applications of thickened or gelled products include paints, inks, polishes, paint strippers, plastics and pesticide compositions. The invention is illustrated by the following Examples and comparative data are given to demonstrate the critical nature of certain parameters.EXAMPLE 1 1 gm of barium di dodecyl benzene sulphonate BaDBS was added to 100g. of xylene a mixture of ortho, meta and para isomers and allowed to stand for I hour at 570 C. The mixture was then stirred for 30 seconds using an Ultraturrax 1 mixer operating at medium speed and allowed to stand at 570C for 15 minutes. This gave a standard 1 by weight mixture of the barium compound in xylene. For higher concentrations of the barium compound, further quantities of barium di dodecyl benzene sulphonate were added to the standard mixture, the resulting mixture allowed to equilibrate at 570C for 15 minutes, stirred by means of the Ultraturrax mixer until apparently homogeneous and then allowed to stand for 15 minutes at 57 C. Mixtures containing 2,3,4,5 and 10 percent by weight of the barium compound were thus prepared. Each of the mixtures was allowed to cool and the viscosity measured at 400C Experiment A and 200C Experiment B by means of a Brookfield RVT viscometer spindle 5, speed LOO . The viscosity values measured in centipoise are shown underExperiments A and B of Table I. TABLE IEMI5.1 tb Concentration SEP SEP Viscosity SEP SEP c SEP entipois SEP e tb of SEP BaDBS tb percent SEP by SEP weight SEP Experiment SEP A SEP Experiment SEP B tb SEP 1 SEP 100 SEP 140 tb SEP 2 SEP 420 SEP 560 tb SEP 3 SEP 940 SEP 1060 tb SEP 4 SEP 1040 SEP 1680 tb SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP SEP 2160 SEP 2480 tb SEP 10 SEP SEP Thick SEP gel SEP SEP Thick SEP gel tb Viscosity not determinable The procedure of this example was repeated with similar amounts of other metal compounds as follows. aluminium monostearate aluminium distearate calcium distearate calcium di dodecylbenzene sulphonate aluminum di dodecylbenzene sulphonate hydroxide. No significant gelling or thickening was observed with any of the above, except with aluminium mono stearate. However, in ageing tests, the aluminium compound showed instability. Results of such tests were as follows. Additive abbreviations. A aluminium monostearate 13 barium di dodecylbenzene sulphonate . EMI6.1 tb Additive SEP g SEP of SEP addi tb SEP tive SEP per SEP Viscosity SEP cps SEP at SEP 2000 SEP SEP after tb SEP 100 SEP g SEP SEP xy SEP ageing SEP after SEP given SEP times SEP hours tb SEP lene tb SEP 0 SEP 1 SEP SEP 16 SEP 72 tb SEP A SEP 1 SEP 200 SEP 40 SEP 0 SEP nm tb SEP B SEP I SEP 1 SEP SEP 140 SEP 160 SEP 160 SEP nm tb SEP A SEP 3 SEP 480 SEP 240 SEP nm SEP 40 tb SEP B SEP 3 SEP 1060 SEP 1060 SEP nm SEP 1120 tb SEP A SEP 4 SEP 760 SEP nm SEP 240 SEP nm tb SEP 3 SEP 4 SEP 1680 SEP nm SEP 1680 SEP nm tb SEP A SEP 5 SEP 1080 SEP 720 SEP 360 SEP nm tb SEP B SEP 5 SEP 2480 SEP 2480 SEP 2520 SEP nm tb nm not measured.EXAMPLE 2 Example 1 was repeated using n hexane in place of xylene.The results of viscosity measurements of the mixtures at 400C Experiment C and 200C Experiment D are shown in Table 2.Gelling occured in this case without large increases in viscosity. TABLE 2EMI6.2 tb Concentration SEP Viscosity SEP centipoise SEP tb of SEP BaDBS tb percent SEP by SEP weight SEP Experiment SEP C SEP Experiment SEP D tb SEP 1 SEP 40 SEP 40 tb SEP thin SEP gel SEP thin SEP gel tb SEP 2 SEP 80 SEP 40 tb SEP gel SEP gel tb SEP 3 SEP 3800 SEP Thick SEP gel tb SEP gel tb SEP 5 SEP Thick SEP gel SEP Thick SEP gel tb SEP 10 SEP Thick SEP gel SEP Thick SEP gel tb EXAMPLE 3 Example 1 was repeated,using separately benzene, white spirit, and diethyl ether in place of xylene. 1 percent by weight of barium di dodecyl benzene sulphonate in benzene or white spirit gave a thin gel, 5 and 10 by weight a thick gel.Ten percent by weight of barium di dodecyl benzene sulphonate in diethyl ether gave a thick solution having the consistency of syrup.EXAMPLE 4 This example demonstrates the effect of varying water content of the barium di dodecylbenzene sulphonate . About 500 g the barium compound was prepared by neutralising barium hydroxide in aqueous solution with the sulphonic acid. The product was washed and drained and heated in an air current at 800 C. Periodically as the barium compound dried, samples of about 3 g were removed and dispersed in xylene 97 g . The resultant dispersion was assessed after 48 hours.Water content of the dispersion was measured, and calculated as a percentage of the weight of barium compound, BaDBS EMI7.1 tb SEP wt. SEP Water SEP content SEP Assessment tb SEP 19 SEP No SEP dispersion SEP SEP BaDBS SEP settles tb SEP 10 SEP No SEP dispersion SEP SEP BaDBS SEP coagulates tb SEP 5. SEP 8 SEP Part SEP only SEP BaDBS SEP dissolves tb SEP 4. SEP 7 SEP BaDBS SEP dispersed SEP cloudy tb SEP viscosity SEP 518 SEP cps tb SEP 3. SEP 8 SEP BaDBS SEP dispersed SEP cloudy tb SEP viscosity SEP 740 SEP cps tb SEP 2. SEP 9 SEP BaDBS SEP dispersed SEP cloudy tb SEP viscosity SEP 21. SEP 000 SEP cps tb EMI8.1 tb wt. SEP Water SEP SEP content SEP Assessment tb SEP 2.0 SEP BaDBS SEP dispersed SEP SEP clear SEP gel tb SEP viscosity SEP 113.000 SEP SEP cps tb SEP 1.6 SEP BaDBS SEP dispersed SEP SEP clear SEP gel tb SEP viscosity SEP not SEP measured tb SEP 1.0 SEP BaDBS SEP dispersed SEP SEP SEP clear SEP gel tb SEP viscosity SEP 33. SEP 000 SEP cps tb SEP 0. SEP 7 SEP BaDBS SEP dispersed SEP . SEP SEP clear SEP gel tb SEP viscosity SEP 28. SEP 000 SEP cps SEP tb Viscosities given are an average of two or three separate experiments . EXAMPLE 5 The example shows how the neutrality of the barium di dodecylbenzene sulphonate affects its thickening properties.The material was prepared from an aqueous solution of barium hydroxide which was mixed with dodecylbenzene sulphonic acid.pH was monitored continually and samples were removed at various pH levels then dried to 3 weight water. The barium compound was dissolved in xylene at a level of 3 by weight and the viscosity measured after 48 hours at 200C.EMI8.2 tb Ph SEP of SEP suspension SEP Viscosity SEP cps tb at SEP sampling tb SEP 7.20 SEP 2320 tb SEP 8.98 SEP 2288 tb SEP 9.57 SEP 1960 tb SEP 9.85 SEP 1300 tb SEP 11.40 SEP 1152 tb