# Silicon alloyed steel.

## Abstract
This invention is related to a high strength steel provided with a bainitic austenitic microstructure which is accomplished by isothermal heat treatment. Said steel contains various alloying elements in the following amounts expressed as weight percentage Carbon C 0.8 1.2 Silicon Si 2.0 2.6 Manganese Mn 0.3 1.0 , preferably 0.3 0.5 , the remainder consisting of iron and normal impurities.

## Claims
Claims 1. High strength steel provided with a bainiticaustenitic microstructure which is accomplished by isothermal heat treatment, c h a r a c t e r i z e d in that the steel contains various alloying elements in the following amounts expressed as weight percentage Carbon C 0.8 1.2 Silicon Si 2.0 2.6 Manganese Mn 0.3 1.0 , preferably 0.3 0.5 , the remainder consisting of iron and normal impurities. 2. Steel according to claim 1, wherein the alloying sumC Si 2.9 3.4 . 3. Steel according to claim 1 or 2, c h a r a c t e r i z e d in that it contains one or more of the following alloying elements with the following contents Chromium Cr 0.01 1.0 , preferably 0.01 0.5 56 Nickel Ni 0.01 1.0 , preferably 0.01 0.5 Niobium Nb 0.001 0.1 , preferably 0.001 0.05 Aluminum Al 0.001 0.1 , preferably 0.001 0.05 Molybdenum Mo 0.01 0.5 , preferably 0.3 0.5 4. Steel according to claim 1, 2 or 3, c h a r a c t e r i z e d in that it has been provided with a dual phase microstructure produced by isothermal heat treatment carried out at a temperature of 350 4500C, the microstructure mainly consisting of upper bainite and residual austenite and wherein the proportion of residual austenite is 30 40 by volume. 5. Steel according to claim 1, 2 or 3, c h a r a c t e r i z e d in that it contains a dual phase microstructure obtained by isothermal heat treatment carried out at a temperature of 280 3500C the microstructure mainly consisting of lower bainite and wherein the proportion of residual austenite is 30 40 .

## Description
Silicon alloyed steel.The present invention relates to an Si alloyed high carbon steel, which by isothermal heat treatment obtains particularly advantageous strength and toughness properties and which is useful especially in wearing parts subjected to heavy impacts.For such wearing parts it is generally known to useMn alloyed austenitic steel, so called Hadfield steel, when, in addition to abrasion resistance, toughness is required of the part.If toughness is not necessary it is possible to use e.g.high carbon chromium alloyed steels 1.0 C, 12 Cr .Both such steels have several drawbacks. Hadfield steel 1.0 C, 13 Mn is difficult to manufacture, it can only be formed by casting and its corrosion resistance and weldability are poor. Due to the high Mn alloy content this steel is also expensive.High carbon chromium steels, on the other hand, are brittle and their workability is poor. They are also expensive due to high alloy content.The advantageous mechanical properties of the steel according to the present invention are based on the bainitic austenitic dual phase microstructure obtained in the isothermal heat treatment. The bainitic component of the microstructure gives the steel good initial hardness and rich residual austenite gives it strong strain hardening capacity.The chemical composition figures stated in the following are based on the weight.In the present steel, advantage has been taken of a known effect of silicon to prevent carbide formation. By increasing the silicon content of a high carbon steel up to 2.0 3.0 , carbide formation can be prevented during isothermal decomposition of austenite at a suitable temperature.The use of silicon as an alloying element is known e.g. in spring steels wherein C and Si contents are generallyC 0.8 , Si 2.0 . In these steels, Si alloying is generally used as an alloying element increasing hardenability and tempering resistance.Commonly known are also low carbon high Si alloyed steels C 0.1 , Sic 2.0 4.0 which are used as core plates of electromagnets. The purpose of Si alloying is to prevent the formation of carbide cementite , when after the austenitizing the steel is allowed to decompose isothermally to upper bainite within a temperature range of 350 4500C or to lower bainite within the temperature range of 280 3500C. Thus, the obtained bainitic ferrite only contains 0.01 of carbon. With carbide formation prevented, carbon must diffuse into the remaining austenite as the bainite reaction proceeds. This, on the other hand, increases the stability of austenite with increasing carbon content.If for example the carbon content of a steel is 1.0 and it decomposes to 50 bainite without carbide formation, the carbon content of residual austenite increases to appr. 2 .Thus, by controlling the composition C and Si content of the steel, decomposition temperature and holding time, it is possible to control the bainite austenite ratio obtained as a result of the decomposition of austenite. The following examples illustrate mechanical properties obtained with the steel according to the invention.The chemical compositions of the example steels are presented in Table I. Table I.Steel C Si Mn Cr Ni Cu Cl1 C Si 1 0.80 2.07 0.48 0.24 0.11 0.16 0.033 2.87 2 0.78 2.45 0.55 0.07 0.07 0.01 0.034 3.23 3 0.93 2.33 0.48 0.03 0.01 0.01 0.030 3.26 4 0.98 2.49 0.51 0.02 0.01 0.01 0.030 3.47 5 0.80 2.40 0.52 0.79 0.01 0,01 0.035 2.91The test steels were heat treated as follows austenitizing 920 10300C, 10 min. isothermal bainitizing at 3800C, 3500C or 3200C, water cooling. The test specimen were subjected to tensile tests performed with an 0 8 mm tensile test specimen, to impact tests KV and residual austenite content was determined with X ray measurements. Test results are illustrated in Table II. EMI4.1 Steel SEP TB SEP Rp SEP 0.2 SEP Rm SEP A5 SEP Z SEP KV SEP Austenite SEP HV SEP 30 SEP Bainitizing tb SEP C SEP N mmê SEP N mmê SEP SEP SEP 20 C SEP content SEP N mmê SEP time, SEP min. tb SEP J SEP tb 1 SEP 380 SEP 1020 SEP 2378 SEP 30.0 SEP 28.5 SEP SEP 33 SEP 393 SEP t SEP SEP 0.5 tb SEP 1045 SEP 1344 SEP 17.0 SEP 32.5 SEP SEP 27 SEP 393 SEP t SEP SEP 2.0 tb 2 SEP 380 SEP 895 SEP 1360 SEP 33.4 SEP 25.0 SEP 35.0 SEP 37 SEP 392 SEP t SEP SEP 0.5 tb SEP 955 SEP 1365 SEP 36.1 SEP 34.0 SEP 21.3 SEP 33 SEP 406 SEP t SEP SEP 2.0 tb 3 SEP 380 SEP 917 SEP 1433 SEP 29.0 SEP 24.5 SEP 26.0 SEP 38 SEP 385 SEP t SEP SEP 0.5 tb SEP 947 SEP 1461 SEP 35.0 SEP 31.0 SEP 14.0 SEP 32 SEP 398 SEP t SEP SEP 2.0 tb 4 SEP 380 SEP 880 SEP 1185 SEP 13.7 SEP 12.3 SEP 18.6 SEP 48 SEP 379 SEP t SEP SEP 0.5 tb SEP 350 SEP 880 SEP 1290 SEP 19.8 SEP 14.5 SEP 16.7 SEP 48 SEP 383 SEP t SEP SEP 2.0 tb 5 SEP 350 SEP 1243 SEP 1603 SEP 32.2 SEP 38.3 SEP 34.0 SEP 37 SEP 430 SEP t SEP SEP 3.0 tb SEP 1229 SEP 1602 SEP 30.6 SEP 38.6 SEP 30.0 SEP 30 SEP 430 SEP t SEP SEP 24.0 tb 5 SEP 320 SEP 1403 SEP 1746 SEP 23.7 SEP 47.5 SEP 44.0 SEP 34 SEP 520 SEP t SEP SEP 3.0 tb SEP 1345 SEP 1703 SEP 23.0 SEP 47.1 SEP 41.0 SEP 25 SEP 515 SEP t SEP SEP 24.0 tb Table II. By comparing the strength and toughness values obtained with residual austenite contents, it can be seen that the best combinations of properties are accomplished with the residual austenite content between 30 and 40 96. Thus, the yield strength will be Rp 0.2 850 N mm2 and the tensile strengthRm 1300 N mm2 when the isothermal bainitizing temperature 0TB is 380 C. Lowering the bainitizing temperature below 3500C increases the strength of the steel considerably. The bainitizing time will then be longer and the microstructure obtained is lower bainite. Elongation to fracture A5 20 96. Too low a C Si content leads to a too small amount of residual austenite with the stronger but more brittle bainite controlling the properties. This is the case with the example steel 1. Thus, C Si must be 2.80. Too high a C Si content, on the other hand, leads to a too high residual austenite content. Thus, the residual austenite is too much in control of mechanical properties, the strength thus remaining lower. Thus, the residual austenite is also mechanically more unstable which impairs the elongation to fracture. This is the case with the example steel 4. Thus,C Si must be 3.5. According to the test results, the most suitable range for the sum is C Si 2.90 3.40 , however with C 0.8 and Si 2.0 . Thus, the elongation to fracture A5 is 30 40 and consists mainly of uniform elongation which is an indication of strain hardening capacity found only in austenitic Hadfield manganese steel and stainless steels.However, in unworked condition, yield strength of both of these steels is 50 of the yield strength of the steel of the present invention.In order to improve its heat treatment properties, the steel according to the invention can be alloyed with austenite stabilizing alloying elements, such as manganese and nickel, up to appr. 1 . Thus, for the C content, it is necessary to take into account the effect of the additional alloying on the stability of austenite. Also carbide forming chromium and niobium can be used in alloying. The former improves hardenability on large bar diameters and it can be used in amounts 1 , preferably 0.5 . Niobium, on the other hand, can be used to control grain growth properties. The alloying amount needed for this is 0.1 . Al alloying is preferable for binding of free nitrogen in ferritic bainite which is advantageous for toughness, particularly at low temperatures. The alloying amount needed for this is 0.1 .The steel according to the invention has produced a combination of strength and toughness properties that has been impossible to obtain with prior art steels. Moreover, since these properties are achieved by simple isothermal heat treatment and inexpensive alloying, the steel according to the invention can be expected to receive wide acceptance and to be widely used in applications requiring high strength and good abrasion resistance.