# Catalyst and process for catalytically cracking a sulfur containing hydrocarbon feed with reduced sulfur oxides emission during catalyst regeneration.

## Abstract
A catayst suitable for use in catalytic cracking comprises a mixture of different types of particles of which one type type A is present in a major concentration and another type type B is present in a minor concentration. The type A parti cles comprise one or more Group VIII noble metals prefer ably platinum composited with a support comprised of a crystalline aluminosilicate component distributed in an active cracking matrix, suitably a matrix of silica alumina. The type B particles comprise at least one Group IIA metal preferably magnesium composited with a support suitably silica magnesia or silica magnesium which may also con tain a dispersed crystalline aluminosilicate zeolite compo nent. When used in a process for the continuous catalytic cracking of a sulfur containing hydrocarbon feed, the regen eration of the spent catalyst causes at least some of the sul fur in the coke deposited on the catalyst to be fixed as the sulfate in the regenerated catalyst, thereby reducing the sul fur oxides content of the regenerator flue gas, and sulfate in the regenerated catalyst is reduced to liberate H₂S on trans fer to the hydrocarbon cracking zone.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A catalyst composition characterized by comprising an admixture of composite particles, which admixture comprises a a major component particle in a concer,tration of greater than 50 percent, based on the total weight of the catalyst, and comprising a Group VIII noble metal composited on an aluminosJlicate zeolite containing refractory inorganic oxide support in concentration in the range of from 1 to 5C parts per million parts by weight of total catalyst, for providing priincipa ly cracking and combustion promoting functions, and b a minor component particle present in the admixture in a concentration of less than 50 percent, based on the total weight of the catalyst and comprising a Group II A metal composited with a refractory inorganic oxide support in a concentration in the range of from 1 percent to 50 percent, based on the weight of the minor component particles. 2. A composition according to claim 1 characterized in that the support of the major component particles is comprised of an aluminosilicate zeolite dispersed in a silica alumina matrix. 3. A. composition according to claim 1 or claim 2 characterized in that the support of the major component particles is comprised of ultrastableY faujasite and porous alumina dispersed in a silica alumina matrix. 4. A composition according to any one of claims 1 3 characteri7ed in that the refractory inorganic oxide support of the minor component particles is comprised of an aluminosilicate zeolite dispersed in a silica magnesia matrix. 5. A composition according to any one of claims 3 4 characterized in that the aluminosilicate zeolite of the support of the major component particles or the minor component particles of both is rare earth exchanged. 6. A composition according to any one of claims 1 5 characterized in that the major component particles are present in the admixture in a concentration in the range of from greater than 50 percent LO 95 percent and the minor component particles are present in the admixture in a concentration in the range of from 5 percent to less than 50 percent. 7. A composition according to any one of claims 1 6 characterized in that the concentration of the Group VIII noble metal component is in the range of from 0.1 part to 10 parts per million parts by weight of total catalyst. 8. A composition according to any one o claims 1 7 characterized in that the Group VIII noble metal contained on the major component particles of the admixture is platinum or palladium. 9. A composition according to any one of claims 1 8 characterized in that the concentration of the Group II A metal component contained on the minor component particles of the admixture is in the range sof from 5 percent to 20 percent. 10. A composition according to any one of claims 1 9 characterized in that the Group II A metal component contained on the minor component particles of the admixture is magnesium. 11. A process for cracking a sulfur containing hydrocarbon feed in a cracking reaction zcie at cracking conditions by contact with a particulate cracking catalyst to produce C3 product liquids and gases, cracking reaction zone flue gas being formed and coke and sulfur deposited on s id catalyst during cracking, the catlyst is transferred to a catalyst regeneration zcne wherein it is contacted with an oxygen containirg gas and the coke and sulfur deposits gasified and removed from the catalyst by burning, and the coke depleted catalyst is recycled to said cracking reaction zone for contact with additional fresh feed hydrocarbon, characterized by contacting the sulfur containing hydrocarbon feed in the said cracking reaction zone with a catalyst composition of any one of claims 1 10 and then transferring the catalyst composition to the regeneration zone whereby sulfur is fixed on the minor component particles, sulfur dioxide is converted to sulfur trioxide and formed into a Group 11 A metal sulfate thus at least partly supressing ihe sulfur oxides mission which normally occurs with release of the regeneration zone flue gas, and thereafter recycling the regenerated catalyst composition to the cracking reaction zone wherein Group II A metal sulfate is reacted to form, from said sulfate, principally hydrogen sulfide, which is released with the flue gases from the cracking reaction zone.

## Description
Catalyst and Process for Catalytically Cracking a Sulfur Containing Hydrocarbon Feed with Reduced Sulfur Oxides Emission During Catalyst Regeneration Many refinery units provide stocks to form the gasoline blending pools which serve as supplies of motor gasoline. For example, stocks of natural or straight run gasoline are produced from virgin feeds by straight dis tillation. Alkylation units are employea to react low molecular weight olefins and paraffins to provide stocks within the gasoline boiling range. Cracking units are employed to reduce the molecular weight of feeds, and thereby provide stocks boiling in the gasoline range.Both virgin and cracked feeds in the gasoline boiling range, including naphtas, may be subjected to catalytic reforming, or hydroforming, to provide upgraded stocks, particularly stocks of increased octane With the phaseout of lead anti knock compounds it continues a formidable challenge for the refiner to maintain gasoline pools at the octane levels demanded and, the problem is aggravated by the deplction of conventional petroleum supplies which creates an increased need to process heavy feedstocks such as residua, unconventional heavy crudes and the like for conversion to gasoline. Cracking processes, both thermal and catalytic, have constituted the heart of petroleum refining operations for several decades. The purpose of both types of process is the same, i.e., to break heavy molecular feed components into lower boiling, adore valuable components. The thermal process, which has now been largely replaced by the more effective catalytic proccss, accomplishes this result by h.eat, whereas the catalytic process breaks the large molecules by contact be een a heavy feed and an active catalyst at lower temperatures than used in thermal prosrsses. The reactions which occur in the catalytic cracking operation are quite complex. Thay include not only carbon carbon bond scission but isomerization, alkylation dehydrocyclization, hydrogen transfer, etc. During the crocking operation a carbonaceous material, or coke, is inevitably deposited on the catalyst. The catalyst, in such unit, is regenerated in a separate vessel, i.e., a regenerator, by burning off the coke to restore its activity.Commonly, the catalyst is continuously cycled between the reactor and regenerator.During cracking the catalyst contacts sulfur containing feed hydrocarbons which may be in liquid, gaseous or mixed phase.Within the reactor the feed sulfur is converted to hydrogen sulfide, carbon axysulfide, normally liquid organic. sulfur compounds, and the residual sulfur is contained in the coke deposit. Much or the sulfur is removed from the reactor via the reactor flue gas effluent stream. After passage through the crÅacking zone, the catalyst is passed to the regeneration zone where the coke deposits, which also contain sulfur, are burned off in an oxygen containing atmosphere at controlled conditions to produce carbon monoxide and carbon dioxide gases. In the combustion most of the sulfur present is converted to sulfur dioxide, and a minor proportion is converted to sulfur trioxide.These gases are conventionally removed from the regeneration zone, or regenerator, as a portion of the regenerator flue gas effluent stream. it is known, e.g., as described in U.S. 3,835,031, that certain high activity catalysts formed by compositing compounds comprised of alkaline earth or Group II A metals such as magnesium and calcium with a crystalline aluminosilicate, or 11molecular sieve component dispersed in silica alumina matrix, will transfer sulfur from the regenerator, where iZ is present in the form of sulfur oxides, to the reactor where the sulfur is released as hydrogen sulfide with the flue gas from the reactor. The chemistry of the sulfur transfer reaction between the alkaline earth cf Group II A metal, e.s., magnesium in the form of an oxide as disclosed in U.S. 3,835,031, supra, is believed to proceed in the regen2rator as follows.. 1 MgO 1 2 2 S 2 MgcO4 The reaction, however, does not go to completion. The sulfur, to the extent that it forms magnesium sulfate, becomes unavailable for exit with the flue gas from the regenerator and It is passed to the reactor. The reuc tions which are believed to occur in the reactor, and stripper are as follows 2 MgSO4 4H2 MgS 4H2O MgS H2O MgO H2SOn stripping, the magnesium sulfide is thereby hydrolyzed with steam and the sulfur exits with the reactor flue gas as hydrogen sulfide. The recovery of hydrogen sulfide from the reactor flue gas is considerably less expensive than the removal of sulfur oxides from the regenerator flue gas.This is because it is relatively simple to separate the C3 liquid hydrocarbons from the off gases from the reactor in a gas recovery unit and scrub the off gases from the reactor with an amine solution to remove the hydrogen sulfide. This is inexpensive as compared with the separation of sulfur oxides from a regenerator flue gas by conventional methods, and, of course, this type of operation is far superior to one wherein sulfur must be recovered in two separate operations fr om the flue gases of both the regenerator and reactor.TheGroup II A metals might also be composited on a silicamagnesia support to promote sulfur transfer However, octane losses result from the use of these types of catalysts prepared with a silica magnesia matrix and, r these reasons, even the complete removal of suifur oxiaes from regenerator flue gas in this manner cannot compensate for these adverse çonsequences. Thu, the formation of catalysts by the addition of the alkaline earth or Group II A metals to such supports causes the octane rating of the gasoline cr naphtha fraction to be substantially reduced, typically by 1 or 2 octane numbers. Various promoters have been added to such catalysts for the purpose of improving coke burn off. In U.S. 2,647,860 it is proposed to add chromic oxide to a cracking catalyst to promote combustion of carbon monoxide to carbon dioxide and to prevent afterburning. U.S. 3,364,136 discloses the use of partIcles containing a small pore molecular sieve with which is associated a transition metal from Groups I B, Il B, VI D, V.II B and VIII of the Periodic Table, or compounds thereof. Tn U.S. 4,072,600, Group VIII noble metals or rhenium have been added as promoters to cracking catalysts to promos carbon monoxide combustion in tha regenerator. In U.S. 4,115,250 there is also presented a survey of prior art patents relating to carbon monoxide combustion promoters for use in catalytic cracking processes. The patent, additionally specifically discloses a process and catalyst use for .promoting both carbon monoxide combustion and sulfur oxides oxidation. The process is one for reducing the amount of carbon monoxide and sulfur oxides in the flue gas from the regenerator by contacting and reácting carbon monoxide and oxygen, in the presence of molecular oxygen, with a carbon monoxide oxidation promoter comprised of a Group VIII noble metal or compound of a Group VIII nobly metal1 or copper and chromium associated with a particulate solid which is physically admixed with a cracking catalyst. The catalyst is constituted of a substantially silica free alumina phase free from said metals or compound of said metals. Sulfur oxides are reacted in the regenerator flue gas with silica free alumina as a discrete phase of the catalyst to form a sulfur containing solid in t .e catalyst, and hydrogen sulfide is formed in the cracking zone by conta .ting the sulfur containing solid with the hydrocarbon feed. In .he past, it has been common practice to dispose of the regenerator flue gas as waste by simply venting it as a plume to the atmosphere. Within recent years, hover, sulfur pollution, particularly sulfur oxides pollution, ilas been recognized as a serious health hazard, and such method of disposal is no longer a viable option. The CleanAir Act requires that significant amounts of the sulfur be removed from a flue gas prior to its discharge to the atmosphere. Whereas it is a relatively simple matter to scrub sulfur, as hydrogen sulfide, from reactor flue gases, it is not so simple, as suggested, to remove sulfur oxides from regenerator flue gases.Moreover, the removal of sulfur is not. so simple even with the use of Group Il A sulfur transfer catalysts, for these catalysts are not nearly as effective as desirable. There is a basic need in the industry for more effective sulfur transfer catalysts, and processes for promoting effective sulfur transfer from tho regenerator to the reactor. It is, accordingly, a primary objective of the present invention to supply these needs, particúlarly by providing catalyst and process capable of catalytically cracking a sulfur containing hydrocarbon feed, while simultaneously, substantially eliminating sulfur oxides from the effluent gas streams of the regenerators or regeneration zones of catalytic cracking units. A particular object is to provide said novel catalyst, and process utilizing said catalyst within the reactor or reaction zone of a catalytic cracking unit to provide an effective slfation step in the regenerator as represented by equation 1 . supra, to convert significantly all of the sulfur te a sulfate for transfer to the reactor for cracking sulfur containing hydrocarbon feuds, whereupon the sulfur iR then reacted and evolved as hydrogen sulfide with the reactor flue gas from which reactor flue gas effluent the hydrogen sulfide can be much more readily, and economically rernoved. These objects and others are achieved in accordance with the present invention emboding a catalyst, and process utilizing said catalyst fcr catalytically cracking a sulfurcontaining hydrocarbon feed, and for the fixation of sulfur by the catalyst and transfer thereof front the catalyst regenration zone to the reaction zone of a catalytic cracking unit.The catalyst comprises an admixture of composite particles, one type of particle being present in major concentration for providing principally cracking and combustion promoting functions, and the other present in lesser concentration for propriding principally sulfur fixation and transfer functions.The major component particle, or particle which provides the cracking and combustion promoting functions, is constituted essentially of one or more Group VIII noble metals PeriodicTable of the Elements, Sargent Welch Scientific Company,Copyright 1968 preferably platinum, composited with a support comprised of a crystalline albino silicate or molecular sieve component distributed in an active cracking catalyst matrix, suitably one constituted of a refractory inorganic oxide, preferably silica alumina and it may also contain clays, or alumina, or both, etc.The minor component particle, or particle which provides the sulfur fixation and transfer functions, on the other hand, is comprised of one or more alkaline earth metals, or alkaline earth metal compounds, i.e., a metal, or metals of Group II A, preferably magnesium, composited with a refractory inorganic oxide support, suitably silica magnosia or silica alumina, which may also contain a crystalline aluminosilicate zeolite component dispersed within atsilica magnesia or silica alumina support matrix and which may also contain clays, or alumina, or both, etc. Additional components may also be present in the circulating catalyst stream such as an oxidation promoter contained on a suitable support. In the regeneration zone coke Is burned from the catalyst, the alkaline earth metal oxide, e .g., the magnesium oxide, being further oxidized to produce magnesium sulfate as in equation 1 , supra. This reaction is believed to involve two steps, an oxidation step as follows 3 SO2 1 2 O2 SO3 ar.c a fixation step, as follows 4 MgO SO3 MgSO4The major component particle, aside from providing a cracking function, promotes combustion and increases the oxidation of sulfur dioxide to sulfur trioxide in the regenerator, as in step 3 , supra, thereby increasing the driving force for the fixation reaction wherein sulfur trioxide is reacted with the alkaline earth metal oxide to form an alkaline earth metal sulfate, as in step 4 , supra. The major component particle, aside from its role of providing a cracking function, provides a synergistic effect whereby greater amounts of the sulfur is converted to the sulfate and transferred to the reactor wherein it is reacted as in step 2 , supra, and released as hydrogen sulfide with the cracked products. The major component particle of the catalyst mixture is employed in concentration greater than 50 percent, based on the weight of the total catalyst mixture, but preferably the major component particle is employed in concentration ranging from greater than 50 percent to about 95 percent, and more preferably from about 90 percent to about 95 percent. The minor component particle is preferably employed in the cata lyst mixture in concentration ranging from about 5 percent to just below 50 percent, more preferably from about 5 percent to about 10 percent, based on the weight of the total catalyst mixture . The limiting factor n the sequence of steps 3 and 4 is thus believed reaction 3 , or oxidation step wherein the sulfur dioxide reacts with the oxygen to form sulfur trioxide. The fixation step 4 is quite rapid, and hence the effectiveness of the overall sulfur transfer reactions is believed to deper.d on the rate at wilich the sulfur dio ,bide is converted to sulfur trioxide. In acccrdancc with the present invention, a very large part or essentially all of the, sulfur within the regeneration is converted into magnesium sulfate, or fixed, and the sulfur is therefore rendered unavailable for the formation of sulfur oxides, cr other compounds which could be evolved from the regeneration zone as a part of the regenerator flue gas. Thus, the sulfur is fixed, and then returned to the reaction zone as a sulfate wherein it is further reacted and evolved as hydrogen sulfide with the reactor flue gas. Additionally, a bonus benefit of the catalyst of this invention is that wherein within the regenerator the combustion of CO to CO.2 is promoted, this yielding additional heat economies and emission control benefits. In the preparation of either the major and minor componeflc particles the metal, or metals, are suitably added to a particle by imFregnation and the composites are subse quently calcined. Exemplary of the Group VITI noble metals added to the major component particles are ruthenium, rhodium, palladium, osmium, iridium, platinum and the like, and exemplary of the Group II A metals added to the minor component particles are berylium, calcium, strontium, barium, magnesium and the like.Magnesium, and platinum or palladium, especially platinum, are added in the preferred combinations, Suitably, the,GroupVIII noble metal, or metals, is added as a salt, or salts, to a support, and it is added in concentration sufficient to provide from about 0.1 part to about 50 parts, preferably from about 0.1 part to about 10 parts, and more pre .ferably from about 0.1 part to about 1 part metallic metal, based on a million parts by weight of the total catalyst dry basis . The Group I A metal, on the other hand, is added to a support in concentration ranging from about 1 percent to about 50 percent, preferably from about 5 percent to about 20 percent, based on the weight cf the minor cortiponent particles dry basis .Though i.mpregnat on from an aqueous or nonaqueous solution is. a preferred method of adding these components to a support, any of the conventional methods will suffices. Where more than one metal is added by impregnation, the support can be contacted in sequence with a solution which contains one metal and than with a solution which cuntains another or more than one metal may be added simultaneously from a single solution. In its preferred aspects the process is one wherein a conventional sulfur bearing catalytic cracker feed, suitably a gas oil, is catalytically cracked in a reaction zone at conditions such as described below Major Operating Typica Process Preferred Process Variables Conditions ConditionsPressure, Psig 0 50 5 30Reactor Temp., F 800 1100 900 1030Space Velocity,W W Hr 2 200 5 150 Catalyst Oil Ratio, Instantaneous Vol.qf Reactor S ace lbs. per lb. of oil 2 12 4 8During the cracking reaction lower boiling hydrocarbon components are formed, and sulfur is deposited on the catalyst with the coke and transported to the regeneration zone. The coked sulfur containing catalyst is stripped of volatiles, and then transferred to the regeneration zone.There, the catalyst is contacted with a gas containing controlled amounts of molecular oxygen to burn off the coke, this being accomplished at temperatures ranging from about 1000 F to about 1500 F, preferably from about 11000F to about 14000F, at residence times ranging from about 0.1 hour to about 1 hour, preferably from about 0.1 hour to about O.2 hour. Generally, a residue of from about 0.05 percent to about 0.8 percent coke, based on the weight of the catalyst dry basis , remains after regeneration.During the coke bun the flue gases which are evolved generally contain no more than about 30O parts per million by volume vppm sulfur, which constitutes about a ninety percent reduction as contrasted with operations with conventional sulfur transfer catalysts. After regeneration the catalyst is recycled to the catalytic reaction zone. The invention will be more fully understood by reference to the following non limiting examples which pre sant comparative date illustrating its more salient features.All parts are given in terms of weight.EXAMPLE 1 The following demonstrates that MgO will act to effect sulfur transfer. However, a catalyst prepared with a silica magnesia matri. for the purpose of effecting sulfur transfer is generally to be avoided because silica magnesia, as earlier suggested, is very detrimental to octanes This is shown buy the following comparative data set forth in TableI.The data was obtained by cat cracking a virgin gas oil at similar conditions, over rare earth exchanged catalysts, similar except that one of the catalysts was constituted of silica magnesia matrix, which also contains about 20 percent kaolin, and the other of silica alumina matrix TABLE I Silica Magnesia Matrix Effects on Cracked Product Yield Composition 1 RE2O3 Exchanged Synthetic Faujasite CREY 2 Matrix Silica Magnesia Silica AluminaConversion Vol. B 77.0 77.0 Hydrogen Wt. FF 3 0.04 0.05 C1 C2 Wt. FF 1.8 2.0 Total C3 s Vol. FF 8.7 12.0 Total C3 Olefin Vol. FF 7.6 10.8 Total C4 s Vol. FF 9.0 11.2 Total C4 Olefin Vol. FF 3.8 4.8 Total i C4 Vol. FF 4.6 5.8 C5 Gasoline Vol. FF 69.5 65.0 C5 Gasoline Conversion 0.90 0.84 Octane No. RON 0 58.0 90.0 RON 3 cc TEL 97.1 97.6 MON 0 76.0 78. MON 3 cc TEL 84.5 86.5 Gravity API 61.1 56.7 Aniline Point F 98 81Light Crude Oil Vol. FF 14.3 10.0 Gravity API 20.8 16.0 Aniline Point F 90 78 640 F Residue Gravity API 7.0 11.2Aniline Point F 118 148Coke Wt. FF 3.8 3.8 1 Constant severity, WHSV 10, c o 4 4.0, reactor temp. 920 F 2 Calcined rare earth exchanged Y type faujasite. 3 FF based on fresh feed. 4 weight ratio of catalyst to oil.EXAMPLE II Table II, 2 tabulation of data from additional runs, illustrates the effect of the present invention with rare earth exchanged faujasite containing catalysts. Catalyst A, as demonstrated in the table represents a commercially available catalyst which was impregnated with 2 wt. MgO. Cata lyst B was constituted of a dry blond of 90 Catalyst A plus 10 of a commercially available zeolite catalyst made with a silica magnesia matrix. Catalyst C was constituted of a dry blend of 90 of a Pt promoted 15 ppm Pt commercially available catalyst with 10 of a commercially available zeolite catalyst made with a silica magnesia matrix. In these tests a synthetic flue gas was passed over 20 ramps of each catalyst placed in a 12000F captive fluid bed. The synthetic flue gas was composed of 6.8 Vol. O2, 9.0 Vol. CO, 84.Q Vol. N2 and contained 2300 vppm SO2.The synthetic flue gas was fed to the captive fluid bed at a rate of 180 cc min for a period of 20 minutes. The results are based on analytical measurements obtained on a sample taken 15 minutes into the 20 minute test period. TABLE II Catalyst A B C Flue Gas Feed SO2, vppm 1783 1450 292 2300 CO2 CO 0.83 0.81 0 The performance of Catalyst A shows, as known in the art, that the incorporation of MgO results in some reduction of SO2 in the flue gas. The performance of Catalyst B that comprises a relatively small amount of silica magnesia containing catalyst provides a comparable reduction in 5,02 emissions The performance of Catalyst C shows that a small amount of an oxidation promoter operating in conjunction with a sulfur transfer agent results in dramatically lower SO2 emissions than would be expected from the presence of 10 of a silica magnesia catalyst the sulfur transfer agent in the composite catalyst without the noble metal promoter. EXAMPLE III The data presented in Table III below illustrates that the catalyst system of the present invention provides a synergistic reduction in S02 emissions when a small amount of MgO is impregnated on a rare earth exchanged faujasite con taining catalyst. In these tests, Catalyst D is representa tive of commercially available Davison CBZ 1 catalyst which contains rare earth treated faujasite ccntained in a silica alumina matrix with added kaolin. It is impregnated with 2 wt. MgO. Catalyst E is a dry blend of a comme cially available catalyst which contains essentially no MgO and 2 wt. of a commercially available oxidation promotion catalyst known to contain PL. Catalyst F was constituted of a dry blend of 98 wt. Catalyst A and 2 wt. of a commercially available oxidation promotion catalyst known to contaiii Pt. These tests were performed identically to those of Example I except that the synthetic flue gas consisted of 6.2 Vol. 02, 6.8 Vol. CO, 1.7 Vol CO2, 85.0 Vol N2 and 1700 vppm SO2. TABLE III Catalyst D E F SO2 Reduction 18 36 99 Flue Gas C02 CO 3.6 cc The performance of Catalyst D shows that impregnation of MgO results in a small reduction in S02 emissions. The performance of Catalyst E shows an enhanced reduction in S02 but this is probably an oxidation of S02 to SO3. The performance of Catalyst F demonstrates a remarkable synergistic effect when both the oxidation promoter and the. sulfur transfer agent are employed in the catalyst system of the present invention. EXAMPLE IV The data presented in Table IV below illustrates that the present invention provides a synergistic reduction in SO2 emissions with ultra stable Y faujasite containing catalysts. The test procedure and gas composition for this example are the same as those for Example I. In the tests, Catalyst G was constituted of a catalyst comprising ultra stable Y faujasite and porous alumina in a silica alumina matrix. Catalyst H was a replicate of Catalyst G but contains 17C ppm Pd. Catalyst I was a replicate of Catalyst G impregnated with 2 wt. MgO. Catalyst J was a dry blend of 50 wt. Catalyst H and 50 wt. Catalyst I. TABLE IV Catalyst G H I J Flue Gas Feed 502, vppm 1961 1741 2196 1270 2300 co2 co 0.96 oj 1.06 . 0 The performance of Catalyst G shows perhaps a marginal SO2 emission reduction perhaps provided by the alumina. The performance of Catalyst H shows that the mere incorporation of Pd alone did not markedly reduce SO2 emissions. The performance of catalyst I indicates that the mere impregnation of MgO does essentially nothing to reduce 502 emissions on a USY catalyst.However, the performance of Catalyst J demonstrates a synergistic effect on USY containing catalyst when both an oxidation promoter and a sulfur transfer agent are used. Example V t The data presented in Table V show that impregnation or. MgO into a USY containing catalyst is very detrimental to octanes. These data wee obtained in a fully integrated reac tor stripper regenera.tor pilot plant at a 4 catalyst to oil ratio and 9250F with a conventional gas oil feed. In the data presented, Catalyst K was constituted of catalyst comprising ultra stable Y faujasite and porous alumina in a silica alumina matrix. Catalyst L was a similar catalyst impregnated with 0.85 wt. MgO. Both catalysts were steamed at 1400 F for 16 hours with 100 steam at 0 psig to simulate equilibration prior to evaluation TABLE VCatalyst K LYields commat 70 Vol. 4300FConversion C5 4300F, Voi. 60.5 61.5 C4 , Vol. 8.6 8.0 C3 , Wt. 4.2 3.9 Coke, Wt. 2.80 3.30 Dry Gas, Wt. 6.1 5.7C5 430 F, Octanes RONC 93.4 92.1 MONC 80.8 79.5The results show that such an impregnation is detrimental to octanes, both research and motor. Conversion of Units In this patent specification, temperatures expressed in OF are converted to C by subtracting 32 and then dividing by 1.8. eights given in pounds 1bs are converted to kg by multiplying by 0.4536. Pressures given in pounds per square inch psi are converted to kg cm by multiplying by 0.07031.