# Antibiotic compositions.

## Abstract
Antibiotic compositions comprising certain novel com binations of macrolide and aminoglycoside antibiotics or their physiologically acceptable salts have been found par ticularly effective in the treatment of colibacillosis in pigs. They are also of value as growth promoters and in improving the feed utilization in pigs. They are also valuable in control ling the growth of mycoplasma in mammalian tissue cul tures.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. An antibiotic composition comprising a macrolide antibiotic selected from the group consisting of tylosin, leucomycin, magnamycin, spiromycin and oleandomycin or a physiologically acceptable salt thereof and an aminoglycoside antibiotic selected from the group consisting of tobramycin, apramycin, nebramycin Factor 5, gentamicin and neomycin or a physiologically acceptable salt thereof. 2. An antibiotic composition as claimed in claim 1, wherein the macrolide antibiotic is tylosin or a physiologically acceptable salt thereof. 3. An antibiotic composition as claimed in claim 1 or 2, wherein the aminoglycoside antibiotic is tobramycin or a physiologically acceptable salt thereof. 4. An antibiotic composition as claimed in claim 1 or 2, wherein the aminoglycoside antibiotic is apramycin or a physiologically acceptable salt thereof. 5. An antibiotic composition as claimed in claim 1 comprising tylosin or a physiologically acceptable salt thereof and tobramycin or a physiologically acceptable salt thereof. 6. An antibiotic composition as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 5 for use as a growth promoter or to improve feed utilization in pigs. 7. An antibiotic composition as claimed n any one of claims 1 to 5 for use in controlling the growth of mycoplasma in mammalian tissue culture. 8. An antibiotic composition as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 5 for use in treating coli bacillosis in pigs. 9. An antibiotic composition as clained in claim 8, wherein the macrolide is tylosin or a physiologically acceptable salt thereof and the aminoglycoside is apramycin or a physiologically acceptable salt thereof. 10. An antibiotic composition as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 9 which comprises tylosin phosphate and apramycin sulfate.

## Description
ANTIBIOTIC COMPOSITIONS This invention relates to certain novel combinations of macrolide and aminoglycoside antibiotics which have been found to be particularly effective in the treatment of colibacillosis in pigs and are also valuable as growth promcters and i improving feed utilization in that srecies. They also have value in the control of mycoplasma growth in mammalian tissue cultures. The macrolice and aminoglycoside antibiotics comprising the compositions are all known. Tylosin,U.S. Patent 3,178,341, Merck Index th Ed., No. 9486 is sold commercially as a veterinary antibiotic spiromycin is disclosed in U.S. Patent 2,943.023,Merck Index 9th Ed., No. 8525 leucomycin is disclosed in Merck Index 9th., No. 5307 magnamycin is disclosd in U.S. Patent 2,960,438 and Mercy Index 9th Ed., No.1812 and oleandomycin is disclosed in U.S Patent Wos 2,757,123 and 2,842,481 and Merck Index 9th Ed., No.6671. The aminoglycoside antibiotics tobramycin and apramycin are alternatively known as nebramycin factors 6 and 2 respectively. Tobramycin, apramycin and nebramycin factor 5 are members of the nebramycin complex of antibiotics produced 5 Streptomyces tennibrarius and are described in U.s. Patert 3,691,279.Tobramycin is use clinically in human medicine.Neomycin is disclosed in U.S. Patent 2,799,620 while gentamicin is disclosed in u.S. Patent 3,091,572 and Merck Index 9th Ed., No. 4223. According to the present invention there is provided an antibiotic composition comprising a macrolide antibiotic selected from the group consisting of tylosin, leucomycin, magnamycin, spiromycin and oleandomycin or a physiologically acceptable salt thereof and an aminoglycoside antibiotic selected from the group consisting of tobramycin, apramycin, nebramycin Factor 5, gentamicin and neomycin or a physiologically acceptable salt thereof. The invention also provides a method for promoting the growth or improving feed utilization in pigs by administering thereto an antibiotic composition as. described above. The invention also provides a method for controlling the growth of mycoplasma in mammalian tissue culture by applying to said tissue culture an antibiotic composition described above. The invention also provides a method for treating colibacillosis in pigs which comprises administering to said pigs an antibiotic composition as described above. The antibiotic compositions of this invention are useful in the control of mycoplasma and in particular mycoplasma that are resistant to the individual antibiotics. The synergism of the compositions was demonstrated in mammalian tissue cultures where mycoplasma are frequent and often unrecognized contaminants. The mycoplasma contamination of tissue culture preparations of various cell lines, for example in the propagation of animal virus, can ruin the culture preparation and in some instances after culture has been maintained for several weeks. The synergistic activity of the compositions of this invention is best demonstrated against resistant mycoplasma in mammalian tissue culture.The term, resistant mycoplasma, as used herein refers to mycoplasma which are resistant to both the macrolide antibiotics and the aminoglycoside antibiotics comprising the compositions of this invention at minimal inhibitory concentrations higher than those generally observed with the antibiotics against various microorganisms. A number of mycoplasma are resistant to the antibiotics comprising the compositions of this invention. Prevalent among resistant mycoplasma contaminants in mammalian tissue culture preparations are strains of M. hyorhinis. M. gallisepticum resistant strains are also frequent contaminants. The synergistic compositions of this invention inhibit the growth of resistant mycoplasma microorganisms at low concentrations when the individual antibiotics are ineffective alone at high concentrations.The followingTABLE 1 lists the minimal inhibitory concentrations MIC in mcg. ml for the individual macrolide and aminoglycoside antibiotics and their combinations.The MIC values were obtained with mammalian tissue cultures contaminated with the designated mycoplasma in experiments carried out as follows. Suspensions of monkey kidney cells, LLC MK2, in medium 199 Morgan et al., Proc. Soc. Ex . Bio.Med, 73, 1 1950 , were inoculated with cultures of the indicated mycoplasma to achieve an inoculum concentration of 1.5 X 107 organisms ml of cell suspension.Control cultures and the mycoplasma positive cultures included in each test were incubated at 370C for 3 5 days. After incubation the medium in all cultures was changed to 1 horse serum in Medium 199 containing 1.68 g of sodium bicarbonate per liter. The tissue cultures innoculated with mycoplasma except for mycoplasma positive control cultures were then treated with the indicated individual antibiotics alone or with the combination of antibiotics shown inTABLE 1. When combinations of antibiotics were tested equal amounts of the antibiotics were used. Solutions of the antibiotics were made up inMedium 199 containing 1.68 g of sodium bicarbonate per liter of medium. The solutions were sterile filtered through a millipore filter having a 0.2 micron porosity and were stored at 4oC prior to use. Two fold dilutions of the antibiotic solutions were made and each antibiotic solution was added to separate cultures to determine the minimal inhibitory concentration. The medium in each culture was changed twice a week with fresh antibiotic solution at the same concentration being added at each medium change. After two weeks, medium changes were made without antibiotic for two more weeks. Samples of the cultures were taken before each medium change in the last two weeks and were cultured to determine the presence of mycoplasma. TABLE 1 MINIMAL INHIBITORY CONCENTRATIONS OF ANTIBIOTICS vs MYCOPLASMA IN LLC MK2 TISSUE CULTURE Minimal Inhibitory Concentration Antibiotic Mycoplasma mcg ml Tylosin M. Hyorhinis HHê 250 Tobramycin M. Hyorhinis RH2 62.5 Combination M. Hyorhinis HR2 15.6 Tylosin M. Hyorhinis 100 Tobramycin M. Hyorhinis 100 Combination M. Hyorhinis Tylosin M. Hyorhinis HER3 200 Tobramycin M. Hyorhinis HEK3 500 Combination M. Hyorhinis HEK 3.1 Tylosin tar M. Hyorhinis HH 200 trate Tobramycin M. Hyorhinis RH 200 sulfate Combination M. Hyorhinis RH 1.5 Tylosin tar M. galzisepticum 800 trate 36 F Tobramycin M. gallisepticum 36 F4 100 Combination M. gallisepticum 25 36 F4 Tylosin M. gallisepticum 413135 800 Tobramycin M. gallisepticum 200 413135 Combination M. gallisepticum 12.5 TABLE 1 continued Minimal Inhibitory Concentration Antibiotic Mycoplasma mcg ml Tylosin Swine L3F12F76 200Tobramycin Swine L3F12F76 50Combination Swine L3F12F76 1.5Tylosin M. Ryorhinis RH 200Apramycin M. Hyorhinis HE 600Combination M. Ryorhinis HH 12Tylosin M. Ryorhinis 400Gentamicin M. Hyorhinis 100Combination M. Hyorhinis 0.78Tylosin M. Hyorhinis RH 800Nebramycin M. Hyorhinis HH 200 Factor 5Combination M.Hyorhinis HH 25Tylosin M. Hyorhinis 200Neomycin M. Ryorhinis 100Combination M. Hyorhinis 6.3Spiromycin M. Hyorhinis RH 800Tobramycin M. Hyorhinis HH 200Combination M. Ryorhinis RH 1.5 TABLE 1 continued Minimal Inhibitory 1 ConcentrationAntibiotic Mycoplasma mcg ml Magnamycin M. Hyorhinis RH 800Tobramycin M. Ryorhinis RH 200Combination M. Ryorhinis RH 1.5Leucomycin M. Hyorhinis RH 400Tobramycin M. Hyorhinis RH 200Combination M.Ryorhinis RR 0.78Oleandomycin M. Byorhinis RH 400Tobramycin M. Ryorhinis RH 200Combination M. Hyorhinis RH 100 1 Combinations of the indicated antibiotics contained equal amounts of each antibiotic.2 M. hyorhinis R.R. is an isolate from human heart tissue 3 M. hyorhinis REX is an isolate from human embryonic kidney tissue 4 M. gallisepticum 36F is a strain of a chicken mycoplasma 5 M. gallisepticum 41313 is a strain of a chicken mycoplasma 6 Swine L3F12F7 was a mycoplasma isolated from swine and from its characteristrics appears to be Mycoplasma arqinini As is shown in Table 1 the mycoplasma employed in the test were controlled only at high concentrations by the individual antibiotics. However when one of the macrolide aminoglycoside compositions of this invention was used the mycoplasma were controlled at greatly reduced concentrations. In each combination the individual antibiotics were present in equal parts. The compositions of this invention are nontoxic to mammalian tissue and can be used to maintain cell lines free of contamination by mycoplasma. The compositions can also be used in conjunctio with other antibiotics which are commonly used in tissue cultures to prevent bacterial contamination but which are ineffective in controlling mycoplasma. For example the synergistic compositions can be used with a penicillin such as penicillin G or with streptomycin, two antibiotics commonly used in tissue cultures. A preferred composition of this invention is tylosin tobramycin. This composition has consistently exhibited low minimal inhibitory concentrations against mycoplasma which tylosin or tobramycin alone control only at high minimal inhibitory concentrations. Table 2 which follows contains the results obtained with numerous combinations of tylosin and tobramycin which inhibited the growth of M. hyorhinis in tissue culture preparations using monkey kidney cells LLC MK2. The tests were conducted in the following manner. Tissue cultures of LLC MK2 cells were inoculated with M. hyorhinis culture five days prior to the addition of tylosin tobramycin combinations con taining varying proportions of the antibiotics and at various concentrations. Medium changes were made at three to five day intervals with antibiotics addition at each change. Samples of the culture media were taken at each media change and assayed for mycoplasma.The data in Table 2 illustrate various proportions of the antibiotics in combinations which inhibited the growth of M. hyorhinis. TABLE 2 Inhibition of M. hyorhinis in LLC MK2 Tissue Culture by Tylosin Tobramycin Compositions Tobramycin Tylosin mcg ml plus mcg ml 12 1 6 1 3 1 2 2 1 6 0.5 12 All of the combinations of tylosin and tobramycin shown in Table 2 inhibited the growth of mycoplasma for from five to eight samplings covering a period of three and a half weeks. When used alone tylosin and tobramycin exhibit much higher MIC values as shown in Table 1. The data in Table 2 demonstrate the low concentrations at which the antibiotic compositions of this invention are synergistically effective. Compositions containing from one part of tobramycin or greater to 3 parts of tylosinor greater by weight are preferred synergistic compositions. Another preferred conposition of this invention comprises tylosin in combination with apramycin. As is shown in Table 1, the solution containing 12 mcg ml of tylosin and 12 mcg ml of apramycin inhibited mycoplasma whereas the MIC for apramycin alone was 600 mcg ml and that for tylosin alone was 200 mcg ml. A further preferred composition comprises tylosin in combination with gentamicin. In contrast to the synergism demonstrated by the macrolide antibiotic aminoglycoside antibiotic compositions of this invention a number of macrolidemacrolide antibiotic combinations showed little if any enhanced activity in the control of mycoplasma in tissue cultures. The macrolide and aminoglycoside antibiotics forming the synergistic compositions can be in a suitable acid addition salt form or as the free bases. These antibiotics form salts with mineral acids and carboxylic acids. Examples of such salts are tylosin hydrochloride, tylosin tartrate, tylosine phosphate, spiromycin adipate, spiromycin hydrochloride, oleandomycin hydrochloride, leucomycin hydrobromide, magnamycin tartrate, tobramycin sulfate, apramycin hydrochloride, neomycin sulfate, neomysin hydrochloride, gentamicin hydrochloride, and gentamicin sulfate. The antibiotic formulations of this invention can be prepared by mixing the dry antibiotic powders of the free base or a salt form thereof or, alternatively solutions of the antibiotics of the appropriate con centration can be mixed to obtain a solution of the two antibiotics of the desired concentration. The individual antibiotics are appreciably soluble in aqueous media and solutions of the formulations in aqueous tissue culture medium are desirably used in controlling mycoplasma contamination in mammalian tissue cultures. The synergistic antibiotic compositions of this invention can be used to inhibit the growth of mycoplasma in a wide variety of mammalian tissue and thus prevent the contamination and loss thereof. For example, a composition of the invention can be employed in mammalian tissue cultures used in the preparation of plasminogen activator according to the method described by Hull et al., U.S. Patent 3,904,480. The antibiotic compositions of this invention generally comprise the.mdcroiide antibiotic in tHe ratio by weight to the aminoglycoside antibiotic of from 15 1 to 1 15. A preferred ratio by weight of the macrolide to the aminoglycoside is 3 1 to 1 3. A preferred antibiotic composition of this invention, tylosin in combination with apramycin, is also useful in enhancing the growth in past weaned pigs. The tylosin apramycin combination demonstrates higher feed utilization and higher weight gains in post weaned pigs than does either antibiotic when administered alone. The efficacy of the tylosinapramycin combination in enhancing feed utilization and weight gain in post weaned pigs was determined in animal trials carried out as follows. The trials were carried out in pens with 6 pigs per pen for 28 days. The pigs were of mixed sex having an average initial body weight of 12.89 kg. and an average age of six weeks. The animals received water before and after feeding. The animals were fed twice daily with feed having the following composition. Ingredient Percent Wheat 21 Barley 23.5 Corn 20 Fish meal 2.5 Yeast 1 Wheat bran 10 Alfalfa Soybean meal 14 Oat hulls 1.8 Calcium phosphate 1 Calcium carbonate 1.1 Sodium Chloride 0.1 Premix SV12 1 Premix SO4 0.5 The tylosin apramycin combination was compared in the trials with tylosin alone and with apramycin alone. The antibiotics and the combination thereof were administered in the animal feed at a level of 100 ppm, and, in the case of the combination at 100 ppm for each antibiotic. The combined results of two like trials are shown below in TABLE 3. TABLE 3 Comparative Weight Gains And Feed Utilization in Pigs Treated With Apramycin Tylosin, Tylosin And Apramycin Negative TylosinTreatment Control Tylosin Apramycin Apramycin Conc. in Feed ppm 100 100 100 100Number of animals n 70 71 72 72Number of replic. n 12 12 12 12Initial weight x 13,11 13,03 12,55 12,85 kg per animal ts 0,81 1,04 0,58 0,71 V 6 8 5 6 Rel 100 99 96 98 Final weight x 25,00 25,58 25,62 26,71 kg per animal s 1,48 1,65 1,14 1,49 v 6 6 4 6 Rel 100 102 102 107 Daily gain x 425 449 467 495 g per animal s 40 62 38 44 v 9 14 8 9 Rel 100 106 110 116 Daily feed in x 0,92 0,92 0,92 0,94 take kg per s 0,06 0,06 0,04 0,05 animal v 7 6 4 5 Rel 100 100 100 102 Feed efficiency x 2,14 2,07 1,96 1,90 kg feed kg s 0,10 0,17 0,09 0,09 gain v 4 8 4 5 Rel 100 97 92 89 In Table 3 the statistical symbols have the following meanings x means 5 s standard devia tion v coefficient of variances and Rel. comparison treatments to negative controls in percentage. As shown in TABLE 3 the pigs treated with tylosin apramycin combination showed higher weight gains and better feed efficiency on the 28 day trial than did the pigs treated with tylosin alone or with apramycin alone. In a second test the efficacy of the tylosin apramycin combination was demonstrated in controlled studies in weanling pigs. The results show that pigs treated with the antibiotic combination had a significantly greater reduction in the incidence ofE. coli diarrhea than did the pigs treated with apramycin alone or with tylosin alone. Further the pigs treated with the antibiotic compositions showed higher average daily weight gains and greater improved feed efficiency than did pigs treated with either antibiotic alone. The following Table 4 shows the results obtained in a 21 day study with weanling pigs.Tylosin and apramycin were each administered in the feed at a level of 110 ppm. The antibiotic combination was likewise administered in the feed containing both antibiotics at the 110 ppm level. The results are shown as a percentage increase over a non treated control group as calculated from the statistical evaluation of the data obtained in the study. TABLE 4Treatment Percent Increase Over Controls Average Daily Improved Feed Reduction of Weight Gain Efficiency DiarrheaApramycin 19.0 10.3 42.8Tylosin 29.7 11.4 26.4Tylosin 40.6 16.1 48.7 Apramycin As shown in Table 4 tylosin when used alone was effective in improving feed efficiency, weight gain and in reducing the incidence of diarrhea. Apramycin when used alone likewise showed its known effectiveness in each category. Surprisingly, the use of both antibiotics in combination showed greater improvement in each category than did the use of apramycin alone. As noted above, tylosin was not previously known to be effective in the treatment of colibacillosis in post weaned pigs and, consequently the greater effectiveness of the tylosin apramycin combination over that displayed by apramycin was unexpected. The method of this invention comprises administering to weanling pigs a therapeutically effective amount of tylosin and apramycin. The total amount of both antibiotics as well as the proportionate amounts of each which may be administered can vary. The effective concentration of the antibiotics in the animal s feed can depend on such factors as the severity of the disease, and the age and weight of the animals.The concentration of both antibiotics together in the feed can generally be between 50 ppm and 1000 ppm with the preferred ratio by weight of tylosin to aptamybIn Ïf frOm s lito I 5. A generally useful concentrationf both antibiotics together in feed is between 100 ppm and 300 ppm. A preferred concentration is about 220 ppm. A most preferred ratio by weight of the antibiotics is 1 1. Tylosin and apramycin are basic substances which form salts with mineral acids, carboxylic acids and sulfonic acids such as the hydrochloride, sulfate, phosphate, tartrate, citrate, laurylsulfate, hexanoate, benzenesulfonate, and like salts. The salt form of the antibiotics as well as the free base form can be employed in the method of this invention. Preferred salts of tylosin are the tartrate and the phosphate salts. Preferred salts of apramycin are the sulfate and hydrochloride salts. The tylosin and apramycin can be formulated together in a premix or in separate prefixes for mixing with the final feed. Alternatively, the two antibiotics can be mixed directly into the final feed. The antibiotics in the base form ae apprecia bly soluble in water as are the salts of the, anti biotics. The antibiotics and preferably the salt forms thereof can be added to the animal s drinking water to form solutions at therapeutically effective concen trations. As with the concentration in the animal s feed the concentration of the antibiotics in drinking water may be varied. Concentrations of both antibiotics of between 10 mcg ml to 500 mcg ml, with a ratio of the antibiotics by weight of 5 1 to 1.5, are generally sufficient to provide control and treatment in the animals.A preferred concentration of the antibiotics in the drinking water is between 50 mcg ml to 300 mcg ml, While the antibiotic compositions of tylosin and apramycin are most practically administered in the animal s feed or drinking water the compositions are also effective when injected into the pigs. For administration by injection the two antibiotics can be formulated with a suitable pharmaceutically acceptable diluent such as water, physiological saline or dextrose. The administration of the tylosin apramycin compositions by injection can be used to treat weanling pigs which are too debilitated by the disease to eat or to consume a sufficient amount of the medicated feed.In such instances the antibiotic compositions can be administered to the pigs by daily injection. Alternatively the antibiotics can be formulated in suitable oral dosage forms, for example in tablets, capsules, or suspensions, and administered to pigs which are incapable of eating a sufficient quantity of the medicated feed. The efficacy of the tylosin apramycin combination in the treatment and control of colibacillosis is shown by the results obtained in a 21 day trial with weanling pigs. The pigs were divided by weight into treatment and control groups of eight pigs. Each treatment was randomly assigned to three groups. The animals were fed a normal ration ad libitum with the treatment groups receiving feed containing 110 ppm of each antibiotic. Weight gains, feed efficiency and the incidence of diarrhea were used to measure the response to treatment. The results obtained after 21 days are shown in Table 5. TABLE 5 TYLOSIN APRAMYCIN 21 DAY TREATMENT OF WEANLING PIGSTreatment Average Average Feed Diarrhea Daily Daily Efficiency Index gain kg Feed kg Control 0.23 0.42 1.81 2.84Apramycin 0.29 0.47 1.64 1.64Tylosin 0.31 0,51 1.62 2.10Tylosin 0.34 0.51 1.53 1.46 Apramycin 1 Tylosin phosphate and apramycin sulfate at 110 ppm in feed. Tylosin apramycin combination at 110 ppm of each antibiotic in feed. 2 The diarrhea index was based on the following system with scoring twice daily for the first 13 days and once on the 14th day. 1. Formed stools only. 2. Formed stools, 50 unformed. 3. Unformed stools, 50 unformed. 4. Unformed stools only. 5. Liquid stools only. The accompanying drawing graphically shows the plot of the mean diarrhea scores vs time in days obtained in the above study. Plotted are the mean scores obtained with the control group and the treated groups. As shown by the plot of the mean scores for the group treated with the tylosin apramycin combina tion the incidence of diarrhea was significantly lower than the incidence for the group treated with apramycin alone. The graph also shows that tylosin alone was of some effectiveness in reducing the incidence of diarrhea. In carrying out the method of this invention the weanlings are treated with the antibiotic combination from the time of weaning to 3 4 weeks post weaning. In the case of severe disease incidence the treatment can be maintained for a longer time if necessary. The data presented in Table 4 above show the difference in the incidence of diarrhea between the treated groups and the control group expressed as the percentage of the control incidence. The tylosin apramycin compositions of this invention demonstrate synergistic activity against strains of Pasturella hemolytica. This organism can cause pneumonia in cattle which in cases of severe infection can lead to death. The synergism of the tylosin apramycin combination was demonstrated in vitro against P. hemolytica strain 41D. Tylosin alone had a minimal inhibitory concentration of 50 mcg ml and that for apramycin alone was 25 mcg ml. The synergistic activity of the combination of the two antibiotics was determined by the checkerboard titration method. In this method two antibiotics are tested in serial dilutions and in all combinations of these dilutions together to find the concentrations of each antibiotic, both alone and in combination, that inhibit growth of the test microorganism.The nature of the interaction between the two antibiotics may be determined algebraically or geometrically. In the algebraic method, the concentration of each antibiotic in the combination that inhibits growth is expressed as a fraction of the concentration that produces the same effect when the antibiotic is used alone. When the sum of these fractions is one, the combination is additive when the sum is less than one, the combination is synergistic and when the sum is greater than one, the combination is antagonistic. Below are shown the calculations using data obtained in the in vitro test of tylosin, apramycin and the combination of the two antibiotics against P.hemolytica. Tylosin alone MIC 0 mcg ml apramycin MIC 25 mcg ml Tylosin Apramycin 25 50 0.8 25 1 12.5 50 6.25 25 1 6.25 50 12.5 25 1 The following antibiotic compositions are preferred compositions Tylosin Tobramycin Tylosin Apramycin Tylosin Gentamicin Leucomycin Tobramycin Spiromycin Tobramycin Magnamycin TobramycinEspecially preferred compositions are tylosin tobramycin, tylosin apramycin, and tylosin gentamicin. The antibiotic compositions of this invention are, as described hereinabove, valuable in veterinary medicine in the treatment of various animal diseases.The compositions are also valuable in controlling mycoplasma contamination in the propagation of virus by the tissue culture method. The following examples further illustrate the present invention. Example 1 Cell suspensions of LLC MK2 Monkey kidney cell line in Medium 199 containing 1 house serum of 4 ml volumes in tissue culture flasks were inoculated with a 3 day old culture of Mycoplasma hyorhinis 5 X 108 organism per ml in Eaton s broth . Approximately 2 to 3 of the mycoplasma culture per volume of the cell suspension was used. After inoculation the cell suspensions were incubated at a temperature of 37 C for form three to five days. Control cultures were also made up in the same manner. After incubation the medium in the control cultures and the mycoplasma positive cultures was replaced with fresh Medium 199 containing 1.68 g of sodium bicarbonate and 1 horse serum. The cultures were then treated with solutions of tylosin, tobramycin, and with the combination of tylosin and tobramycin in Medium 199 containing 1.68 g of sodium bicarbonate per liter. Solutions of each individual antibiotic and of the combination at a concentration of 1000 mcg ml were prepared. The solution of the combination had a concentration of each antibiotic of 1000 mcg. By two fold serial dilution solutions at various concentrations down to 0.39 mcg ml were prepared. Each of the antibiotic solutions was added to a separate flask containing the tissue culture. The tissue culture medium was replaced in each flask twice a week and at each medium change for two weeks a fresh solution of the antibiotic at the same concentration was added. After two weeks fresh medium replacements were made for two more weeks without the addition of antibiotic. Samples of each culture were taken before each medium replacement and were cultured to determine the presence of mycoplasma.The minimal inhibitory concentration of the individual antibiotics and of the combination, tylosin and tobramycin, was the lowest concentration of the antibiotic in a given tissue culture which failed to culture for mycoplasma on sampling. The minimum inhibitory concentration for tylosin alone was 100 mcg ml. and for tobramycin alone was 100 mcg ml. while for the combination the MIC was 3 mcg ml. Example 2 When tylosin, apramycin, and the tylosinapramycin combinations were evaluated in tissue culture contaminated with M. hyorhinis H. H. according to the method and procedures employed as described by Example 1 tylosin alone had an MIC of 200 mcg ml., apramycin alone had an MIC of 600 mcg ml. while the tylosinapramycin combination had an MIC of 12 mcg ml. Example 3 By employing M. Iworhinis in the procedure ofExample 1 and substituting gentamicin for tobramycin and tylosin gentamycin for the tylosin tobramycin combination, tylosin alone had an MIC of 400 mcg ml.The combination of tylosin gentamicin had an MIC of 0,78 mcg ml. Example 4 The combination, leucomycin tobramycin, was substituted for the tylosin tobramycin combination used in Example 1. Leucomycin alone had an MIC of 400 mcg ml., tobramycin an MIC of 200 mcg ml. while the combination had an MIC of 0.78 mcg ml. Example 5 Ninety six weanling pigs averaging 6.0 kg in weight were randomly allocated by weight into 12 pens of 8 pigs per pen. Four treatments were used in the study as follows 1 Non medicated controls 2 apramycin fed at 110 ppm 3 tylosin phosphate fed at 110 ppm and 4 apramycin sulfate and tylosin phosphate both fed at 110 ppm. Each treatment was replicated through three pens. The pigs were fed for 21 days ad libitum a ration of 20 protein corn soy meal with some rolled oats included for roughage. Vitamins and minerals were added as needed to balance the ration. The only difference in the rations fed to all pigs was the inclusion of the appropriate antibiotic or antibiotic combination in each of the medicated rations. All feed was weighed as fed, with the feed remaining at the end of the weigh period, weighed and discarded. The pigs were weighed at the initiation of the study and weekly thereafter. Diarrhea scores were maintained on a pen basis. The scoring was done by the same person on a twice daily schedule for the first 13 days and once only on the 14th day The scoring index was the same as that shown in footnote 2 of Table 5. An extra pen of pigs was maintained for bacteriological surveys. These pigs were sacrificed as diarrhea was first observed as occurring following allocation of animals to individual pens and prior to the feeding of any medicated rations. The number of beta hemolytic E. coli per ml of duodenum or ileum contents was determined for the sacrificed animals. The results demonstrated the presence of E. coli at levels of 107 and 108 in the duodenum of the two animals assayed. Negative results were obtained on culturing for salmonella. The results of the study expressed in weight gain, reduced incidence of diarrhea and improved feed efficiency are shown in Tables 4 and 5 herein.