# Control system for stopping spindle at predetermined rotational position.

## Abstract
A system for stopping a spindle 7, which is provided in a machine tool, in such a manner that a specified point on the spindle 7 is stopped at a predetermined rotational position. The system includes means for detecting the direction of spindle rotation. When the spindle 7 arrives at a region where it is to be controlled in order to stop at the predeter mined rotational position, a position deviation signal RPD is applied as the input signal of a speed control loop for control ling the rotation of the spindle 7. This signal leads the specified point on the spindle 7 to the predetermined rota tional position, from the direction in which the spindle 7 is rotating, on the basis of the direction signal from the detect ing means. That is, the specified point on the spindle 7 is guided to the predetermined rotational position from a direc ion which is the same as the direction of rotation.

## Claims
CLAIN0S 1. A control system for stopping a spindle at a predetermined rotational position, for driving a spindle in such a manner that a positional deviation between the present rotational position of a specified point on the spindle and a predetermined rotational position at which the specified point is to be stopped, is reduced to zero, thereby to stop the specified point on the spindle at the predetermined rotational position, which control system comprises detection means for detecting the direction of spindle rotation DC voltage generating means for generating a DC voltage which is positive or negative depending upon the direction of spindle rotation as detected by said detection means and means for generating a rotational position deviation signal on the basis of the positive or negative DC voltage from said DC voltage generating means, the rotational position deviation signal having such a polarity that the spindle is capable of being stopped at the predetermined rotational position regardless of whether the spindle is rotating in the forward or reverse direction. 2. A control system for stopping a spindle at a predetermined rotational position, for driving a spindle in such a manner that a positional deviation between the present rotational position of a specified point on the spindle and a predetermined rotational position at which the specified point is to be stopped, is reduced to zero, thereby to stop the specified point on the spindle at the predetermined rotational position which control system comprises detection mean s for detecing the direction of spindle rotation DC voltage generating means for generating a DC voltage which is positive or negative depending upon the direction of spindle rotation as detected by said detection means means for generating a coarse rotational position deviation signal on the basis of the positive cr negativeDC voltage from said DC voltage generating means, the coarse rotational position deviation signal having such a polarity that the spindle is capable of being stopped at the predetermined rotational position regardless of whether the spindle is rotating in the forward or reverse direction and a sensor for producing an output signal of zero volts when the specified point on the spindle arrives at the predetermined rotational position, and for producing a positive or negative output signal when the specified point on the spindle is in the vicinity of the predetermined rotational position to the left or right thereof, thereby to produce a fine rotational position deviation signal which crosses the zero volt level in use, whereby, the coarse rotational position deviation signal from said means ior generating the same is delivered as the rotational position deviation signal until the specified point on the spindle reaches the vicinity ofthe predetermined rotational position, and the fine rotational position deviation signal from said sensor is delivered as the rotational position deviation signal after the specified point on the spindle has reached the vicinity of the predetermined rotational position. 3, A control system according to claim 1 or 2 which is such that when it is in use, the spindle which is rotating in either the forward or reverse direction may be stopped once and then made to rotate in the same direction by the rotational position deviation signal, thereby to stop the specified point on the spindle at the predetermined rotational position. 4. A control system according to claim 1, 2 or 3 which is such that, when it is in use, the spindle, which is rotating in either the forward or reverse direction, may reach a speed corresponding to an initial value of the rotational deviation signal during the deceleration of the spindle, the spindle may continue to be rotated in the same direction at the time said speed is reached, by the rotational position deviation signal thereby to stop the specified point on the spindle at the predetermined rotational position.

## Description
Control System for Stopping Spindle at Predetermined Rotational Position This invention relates to a system for stopping a spindle at a predetermined rotational position. machine tools with an automatic tool changing function are well known in the art. Thes e are machine tools that perform machining work automatically while various tools are changed, also automatically. The tools carried on such machines are changed in the following manner. First, a magazine holding a number of tools is revolved to bring a vacant tool holding portion of the magazine into position directly above a spindle mechanism. The spindle mechanism, which is grasping an old tool to be exchanged for a new on e, is then projected forwardly, after which the magazine positioned above the spindle mechanism is lowered to permit the old tool to be received and grasped by the vacant tool holding portion of the magazine. The spindle mechanism is then retracted so that the old tool separates from the spindle, thereby transferrin g the old tool to the magazine.Next, the magazine is revolved to bring the desired new tool into position in front of the spindle, and the spindle mechanism is projected forwardly to allow the spindle to receive and to grasp the new tool. Finally the magazine is raised away from the spindle to complete the tool change operation. It is required in the tool change mechanism of the foregoing type that a prescribed part of the spindle, such as a key member, be stopped accurately at the correct rotational position in order to permit the fitting portions of the spindle and tool to mate with each other smoothly.More specifically, a key is mounted on the spindle anda keyway is formed in the tool in order to mate with the key.The smooth mating of the spindle and tool requires that the spindle be positioned and stopped to provide the correct alignment of key and kevay. meeting the above requirement necessitates a high spindle positioning accuracy of from 0.1 to 0.2 degrees in terms of the angle of rotation of the spindle. The conventional automatic tool change mechanisms are provided with a photoelectric detector or with a limit switch mechanism which detects the rotational position of the spindle key in order to facilitate the smooth mating of the spindle and tool. The arrangement is such that the spindle is brought to a stop at the prescribed position by the application of a mechanical brake which is actuated in response to a signal from the key position detecting means. The foregoing apparatus not only fails to provide the desired positioning accuracy but has a stopping mechanism that experiences wear with long use since the mechanism relies upon mechanical pin or brake means or the like.Such wear, particularly of a brake shoe or pin, makes it progressively more difficult to stop,. thy spindle at the prescribed position, and the result is that the automatic changing of tools cannot proceed smoothly. Accordingly, there is a need for a control system which is capable of stopping a spindle at a predetermined rotational position with a high degree of accuracy by purely electrical means, without relying upon a mechanical pin or mechanical brake mechanism to stop the spindle in performing an automatic tool change operation. On the other hand, numerically controlled machine tools are being applied increasingly to the boring of such workpieces as automobile engine boxes. Such boring work requires the use of thicker boring bars or cutters in view of preventing chatter by increasing rigidity. There are cases, however, where the use of thicker diametered boring bars cannot be avoided, as in the case of boring a hole whose dimensions are such that the thicker boring bars cannot be inserted. This point will be elaborated on in the following description of a boring machine tool. Fig . 1 is an illustrative view of a boring machine tool in simplified form. Provided are a headstock 201, a boring bar 202, and a cutting tool 203. A workpiece 204, which is carried on a table 205, includes holes 204a, 204at for receiving the boring bar 202, and a hollow portion 204b.In the boring machine tool of this type, the cutting tool 203 is inserted into the hollow portion 204b of the workpiece 204 through either the insertion hole 204a or 204a , after which the workpiece is moved relative to the cutting tool to permit the cutting tool to bore the workpiece in a prescribed manner. The holes 204a, 204a , since they are eventually to be covered, are comparatively small in diameter. It is therefore necessary to select a boring bar 202 of a small diameter, as shown in Fig. 2, in order to prevent the cutting tool 203 from contacting the periphery of the hole 204a when the boring bar is inserted into and withdrawn from the interior of the workpiece. The small diameter boring bar experiences chatter during machining so that a high degree of accuracy cannot be achieved. Proposed methods of solving the above problem are shown in Figs. 3 and 4, wherein arrangements are adopted that permit the utilization of a boring bar 202 of a larger diameter. In accordance with the method of Fig. 3, the center of the boring bar 202 is offset from the center of the hole 204a along the Y axis when the boring bar is inserted and withdrawn, the cutting tool 203 being positioned so as to coincide with the Y axis. It should be noted, however, that the choice of the X axis here is illustrative only. In accordance with the method of Fig. 4, a cutting tool insertion notch 204c is formed in the workpiece 204 so as to communicate with the insertion hole 204a, and the cutting tool 203 is so positioned as to coincide with the notch 204c when the boring bar is inserted and withdrawn.Both methods depicted in Figs. 3 and 4 reduce Vibration by allowing the use of a boring bar of a larger diameter.When the cutting tool is inserted into the workpiece and when its rotation is stopped after a machining operation, both of the above methods require that the spindle of the machine tool be stopped accurately at a predetermined rotational position which is the positive Y axis in the arrangement of Fig. 3 and the position of the cutting tool insertion slot 204c in the arrangement of Fig. 4. In other words, in order to eliminate chatter and effect a rigid machining operation by employing a boring bar of a larger diameter, a control system is required through which the spindle mounting the boring bar can be stopped at a predetermined rotational position. To this end, the present inventors have already proposed a system for stopping a spindle at a predetermined rotational position through purely electrical means. With this proposed system, however, it is required that the spindle be rotating in a certain direction, such as the forward direction, in order to stop the spindle at the predetermined rotational position. It is not possible to stop the spindle at said position when it is rotating in the other direction, namely the reverse direction. Accordingly, when the spindle is rotating in the reverse direction, it is necessary to bring the spindle to a halt and then rotate it in the forward direction to stop it at the predetermined rotational position. This procedure is annoying and may give the operator a sense of unease. More importantly, in a boring machine where boring is taking place by rotating the spindle in the reverse direction, a problem is encountered since the cutting tool must be rotated in a direction opposite to that of the machining direction, namely in the forward direction, at the conclusion of the boring work in order to properly orient the cutting tool so that it may be withdrawn from the hole in the workpiece.The problem is that the cutting edge of the tool may contact the workpiece.in a direction opposite to that of the cutting direction and produce a flaw such as a kerf in the side wall of the bore. Since the flaw lowers the value of the article it is necessary to remove the flaw by a costly and time consuming grinding process. Still another drawback is the considerable time required to finally stop the spindle at the predetermined rotational position. This is because the spindle, which is rotating in the reverse direction in the above example, must first be halted, rotated again in the opposite forward direction, and then brought to a stop at the predetermined position.Since this troublesome operation must be repeated for changing tools and for inserting and withdrawing the boring bar, considerable machining time is lost so that the overall mach ning efficiency declines. According to a first aspect of the present invention there is provided a control system for stopping a spindle at a predetermined rotational position, for driving a spindle in such a manner that a positional deviation between the present rotational position of a specified point on the spindle and a predetermined rotational position at which the specified point is to be stopped, is reduced to zero, thereby to stop the specified point on the spindle at the predetermined rotational position, which control system comprises detection means for detecting the directibn of spindle rotation DC voltage generating means for generating a DC voltage which is positive or negative depending upon the direction of spindle rotation as detected by said detection means and means for generating a rotational position deviation signal on the basis of the positive or negative DC voltage from said DC voltage generating means, the rotational position deviation signal having such a polarity that the spindle is capable of being stopped at the predetermined rotational position regardless of whether the spindle is rotating in the forward or reverse direction. According to a second aspect of the present invention there is provided a control system for stopping a spindle at a predetermined rotational position, for driving a spindle in such a manner that a positional deviation between the present rotational position of a specified point on the spindle and a predetermined rotational position at which the specified point is to be stopped, is reduced to zero, thereby to stop the specified point on the spindle at the predetermined rotational position, which control system comprises detection means for detecting the direction of spindle rotation DC voltage generating means for generating a DC voltage which is positive or negative depending upon the direction of spindle rotation as detected by said detection means means for generating a coarse rotational position deviation signal on the basis of the positive or negativeDC voltage from said DC voltage generating means, the coarse rotational position deviation signal having such a polarity that the spindle is capable of being stopped at the predetermined rotational position regardless of whether the spindle is rotating in the forward or reverse direction and a sensor for producing an output signal of zero volts when the specified point on the spindle arrives at the predetermined rotational position, and for producing a positive or negative output signal when the specified point on the spindle is in the vicinity of the predetermined rotational position to the left or right thereof, thereby to produce a fine rotational position deviation signal which crosses the zero volt level in use, whereby, the coarse rotational position deviation signal from said means for generating the same is delivered as the rotational position deviation signal until the specified point on the spindle reaches the vicinity of the predetermined rotational position, and the fine rotational position deviation signal from said sensor is delivered as the rotational position deviation signal after the specified point on the spindle has reached the vicinity of the predetermined rotational position Embodiments of the present invention provide control systems for stopping a spindle at a predetermined rotational position regardless of whether the spindle is rotating in the forward or reverse direction. A preferred embodiment of the present invention may provide a novel control system for stopping a.spindle at a predetermined rotational position in a short period of time regardless of whether the spindle is rotating in the forward or reverse direction. Preferably, there may be provided a novel control system for stopping a spindle at a predetermined rotational position regardless of whether the spindle is rotating in the forward or reverse direction, and which will not flaw a workpiece in a boring operation at such time that the spindle is stopped at said position. Other features and advantages of a preferred embodiment of the invention will be apparent from the following description taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings. Fig. 1 is an illustrative view showing a boring machine tool in simplified form Fig. 2 is an illustrative view showing the positional relationships among a cutting tool, a boring bar and a hole, located in the workpiece, for receiving the cutting tool and boring bar Figs. 3 and 4 are illustrative views shoving methods of inserting a boring bar into a hole located in a workpiece Fig. 5 is a block diagram which is useful in describing in outline a control apparatus for stopping a spindle at a predetermined rotational position in accordance with the present invention Figs. 6A and 6B are illustrative views showing the arrangement of a position sensor, and Fig. 6C is a waveform diagram of output signals associated therewith Figs. 7A and 7B are illustrative views showing the internal structure of the position sensor of Fig. 6, andFig. 7C is a waveform diagram of output signals associated therewith Fig. 8 is a circuit diagram of a portion of the position sensor of Fig. 6 Figs. 9A through 9D are illustrative views which are useful in describing the operation of the position sensor Figs. 10A and 10B are waveform diagrams associated with the control system of the present invention Figs. llA and llB are detailed circuit diagrams of principal portions of a rotational position deviation signal generating circuit Fig. 12 is a waveform diagram of signals associated with the rotational position deviation signal generating circuit of Fig. 11 and Figs. 13A and 13B are illustrative views which are useful in describing the operation of a DC voltage generating circuit. Referring now to Fig. 5, there are provided a speed command circuit 1 for producing a speed command CV, and an orientation command circuit 2 for producing an orientation command ORCM. A speed control circuit 3 includes an adder 3a, a phase compensating circuit 3b connected to the output of the adder, a voltage to phase converter 3c connected to the output of the phase compensating circuit, and a thyristor converter 3d connected to the output of the coil verter 3c. The adder 3a is adapted to deliver a difference voltage, representative of a speed deviation, between the voltage of the speed command CV and the voltage of an actual speed signal, during a speed control operation, and to deliver a difference voltage between a rotational position deviation RPD and the actual speed AV.The phaes compensating circuit 3b subjects the output voltage of the adder 3a to a phase compensation by advancing or retarding its phase. The voltage to phase converter 3c controls the firng angle of each thyristor in the thyristor converter 3d in accordance with the output voltage of the phase compensating circuit 3b. The thyristor converter 3d operates in accordance with the controlled firing angles of its thyristors to convert the three phase voltage from a three phase power supply 3e into a direct current to vary the value of the voltage applied to a DC motor which will be described later, thereby to regulate the speed.at which the motor rotates. The DC motor is designated at numeral 4 and serves as a spindle drive motor. As the DC motor 4 rotates, a tachometer generator 5 generates a voltage in accordance with the motor speed.The rotational motion of the DC motor 4 is transmitted through a gear mechanism 9 to a spindle 7. The spindle 7 is coupled to a spindle mechanism 6 which mounts a tool 8. It should be noted that the gear mechanism 9 may be replaced by a belt mechanism which employs a timing belt or the like A rotational position sensor 10 is adapted to detect the rotational position of the spindle 7 and comprises a magnetic body 10a which is attached to the spindle 7, a sensing portion 10b which is attached to a stationary portion of the machine such as the spindle bearing portion so as to confront the magnetic body 10a, and an electrical circuit 10c, as shown in Figs. 6A and 6B.The position sensor 10 produces a fine position deviation signal DV2 and an approach signalASV, shown in Fig. 6C, which vary in accordance with the rotational deviation of the spindle 7 with respect to a predetermined rotational position OS at which a spe cified point on the spindle is to be stopped. An orientation control circuit 11 includes a rotational position deviation signal generating circuit lla which receives the fine position deviation signal DV2, the approach signal ASV, and the signal AV, indicative of the actual speed of the spindle, provided by the tachometer 5, and which produces the rotational position deviation signalRPD which serves as a spindle speed command signal when an operation for stopping the spindle at the predetermined rotational position is being carried out, an orientation completion signal ORDEN, and a zero speed signal VZR.The orientation control circuit 11 includes also a loop changeover circuit llb for actuating a loop changeover switch 12 on the basis of the orientation command signal ORCM from the orientation command circuit 2 and the zero speed signal VZR from the position deviation signal generating circuit gila. Reference will now be had to Figs. 6A and 6B for a fuller understanding of the structure and operation of the position sensor 10, Fig. 6A showing a front view andFig. 6B a plan view for a case in which the magnetic body 10a is mounted on the spindle 7. It should be noted that the sizes of the magnetic body 10a and sensing portion lOb are exaggerated in comparison with the spindle 7. The magnetic body 10a is so mounted on the spindle 7 that the center of the magnetic body 10a will coincide with the center of the sensing portion 10b when a specified point on the spindle is located at the predetermined rotational position at which said point is desired to be stopped.As the spindle 7 rotates the electrical circuit lOc produces the fine position deviation signal DV2 and the approach signal ASV having the waveforms shown in Fig. 6c. The magnetic body 10a, as shown in Fig. 7a, has magnets 10a , 10a , possessed of a triangular cross section, mounted in a case 10a in such a manner than the intensity of the magnetic field changes from S to N in the direction of spindle rotation, i.e.1 in the direction of the arrow.The sensing portion 10b is mounted on a mechanically stationary portion of the machine so as to confront the magnetic body lOa, and includes three saturable reactorsSRA1, SRA2, SRA3 provided in a case 10b and aligned in the direction of spindle rotation, as shown in Fig. 7a.Each of the saturable reactors comprises coils L1, L2 wound on a core CR, as shown in Fig. 7b. The coils L1, L2 on each core have the same number of turns and are wound in opposite directions. The coils on each core share a common terminal TA to which a high frequency signal is applied, and signals which are in accordance with the rotational position of the magnetic body 10a are obtained from the terminals TB, TC of respective coils. Included in the electrical circuit 10c is a circuit shown in Fig. 8, associated with a corresponding one of the saturable reactors SRA for processing the signal produced by the reactor. Included in the electrical circuit 1 0c are a pulse oscillator OSC for generating a 100kHz high frequency signal, an isolating transformer ITR, and half wave rectifiers HWR1, HWR2. The saturable reactor SRA is excited by the high frequency pulse signal HFP through the intermediary of the isolating transformer ITR. As a result, an analog output voltage is obtained across the terminals a, b of the circuit, which output voltage is proportional to the external magnetic field next whose strength varies in accordance with the rotational position of the magnetic body iota. The action of the analog output voltage which is obtained across the terminals a, b and which depends upon the rotational deviation of the spindle 7 will now be described in connection with the reactor SPA2 shown inFig. 7. hen the magnetic body 10a is remote from the saturable reactor SRA2 so that the external magnetic field acting upon the reactor has a value of zero, the highfrequency pulse signal HFP acts about the vertical zero line of the reactor B H curve as its center, as shown inFig. 9A. In other words, the number of lines of flux cutting the coils L1 L2 are equal. so that the output voltages from the terminals TB, TC are equal in amplitude but displaced in phase by 180 degrees.It should be noted that the core forming the saturable reactor SRA has a hysteresis characteristic which is so small as to be negligible. Since the voltages from the terminals TB, TC are rectified by the respective half wave rectifiers HER1, Her2, t e potentials at the terminals a, b are equal, so that the voltage across a, b is zero.Now, as the spindle 7 rotates and the magnetic body 10a approaches the centrally located saturable reactor SRA2, the external magnetic field Hext being generated by the magnetic body begins to act upon the saturable reactor SRA2. If we let hQ denote the field generated by the high frequency pulse signal HFP, a flux in accordance with hg Hext will cut the coil L1, as shown in Fig. 9B, and a flux in accordance with hQ Hext will cut the coil L2.If this is expressed by a B H curve, the high frequency pulse signal HFP will act about the line H,,t as its center with respect to the coil L1, as shown in Fig. 9C, and about the line Hext with respect to the coil L2, as depicted in Fig. 9D. Therefore the negatively directed flux which cuts the coil L1 causes saturation of the core so that there is a smaller amount of variation, whereas the negatively directed flux which crosses the coil L2 does not cause saturation so that there is a greater amount of variation. In view of the fact that the induced voltage e takes on the value Nd dt where N is the number of turns , the potential at the terminal b will become greater than the potential at terminal a, giving rise to a potential difference across the terminals.This potential difference will vary in the manner of the fine position deviation signal DV2 ofFig. 7C and, as the magnetic body 10a continues to rotate, will become zero when the center of the magnetic body 10a coincides with the center line of the saturable reactorSRA2. The result is an analog voltage signal having maximum and minimum values. Similarly, the saturable reactors SRA1, SRA3 on the left and right sides of the sensing portion 10b, respectively, and the two half wave rectifiers associated with each reactor, cooperate to produce a potential difference across the terminals a, b of each corresponding circuit. This potential difference also defines an analog voltage signal, similar to that of the fine position deviation signal DV2, having maximum and minimum values.Thus, the analog voltage signals associated with the reactors SRA1, SRA3 also depend upon the rotation of the magnetic body 10a on the spindle 7. The electrical circuit 10c of the position sensor 10 further includes a conversion circuit for producing a signal DV3, shown in Fig. 7C, by subjecting to a 180 degree phase conversion the analog voltage signal which is obtained from the saturable reactor SRA3 and which varies in accordance with the rotational movement of the magnetic body l0a, and a circuit which produces the approach signal ASV, also shown in Fig. 7C, by adding together the signalDV3 and the analog voltage signal, denoted by DV1, which is obtained from the saturable reactor SRA1 and which varies in accordance with the rotational movement of the magnetic body 10a. The approach signal ASV indicates that a specified point on the spindle 7 has reached an area in the environs of the predetermined rotational position. The operation of the rotational position deviation signal generating circuit ila will now be described with reference to Figs. 5 and l0A. The rotational position deviation signal generating circuit l la, shown in Fig. 5, receives the fine position deviation signal DV2 and the approach signal ASV from the position sensor 10, and the actual speed signal AV from the tachometer 5. The signal AV is integrated within the circuit lia, and the output signal resulting from the integration operation is subtracted from a yet to be described initially set voltage ISV Vi when the spindle is rotating in the forward direction, and Vi when the spindle is rotating in the reverse direction . Thus the signal AV is converted into a coarse position deviation signal CPD. The voltage value V. of the voltage ISV has been set so as 1. to be equal to a rotational position deviation voltage which corresponds to one revolution 3600C of the spindle.Further, the rotational position deviation signal generating circuit lia forms a bias signal BIS, retained within the circuit, having an amplitude which is equivalent to the peak value of the fine rotational position deviation signal DV2. When the speed command CV falls to zero in accordance with an orientation command signal ORCM from the orientation command circuit 2, the rotational speed of the spindle diminishes and eventually at time tl falls to zero zero speed signal VZR goes to logical 1 . When this occurs, the rotational position deviation signal generating circuit lla produces the initially set voltageISV from the time that the zero speed signal VZR goes to logical ii 1 until the time t2 at which the spindle initial ly reaches the predetermined rotational position. Before proceeding further, it will be assumed that the spindle is rotating in the forward direction at the time that it is to be stopped at the predetermined rotational position .Thereafter, as the spindle continues to rotate and the magnetic body lOa the specified point on the spindle approaches the predetermined rotational position for the second time, the coarse position deviation signal CPD, whose polarity will be negative, is produced until the magnetic body l0a draws near to the area NCP defined between e1 and 61 in the environs of the predetermined rotational position,. that is, until it arrives at the position 82. Furthermore, the bias signal BIS Vj is produced until the abovementioned area NCP is reached. The fine position deviation signal DV2 is generated after the magnetic body 10a has reached and entered the area NCP in the environs of the predetermined rotational position. The result of these operations is the rotational position deviation signal RPD, whose polarity will be negative, which is shown in Fig. l0a. It should be noted that the bias signal waveform BIS may be excluded from the signal RPD by setting 62 equal to 81. If the spindle is to be stopped at the predetermined rotational position while rotating in the reverse direction, Vi is delivered as the signal ISV, a coarse position deviation signal of a positive polarity as the signal CPD, and Vj as the signal BIS. The result is the rotational position deviation signal RPD whose polarity will be positive. The operation of the control circuit for stopping the spindle at a predetermined rotational position will now be described with reference to Fig. lOb for a case in which the spindle 7 is rotating in the forward direction.It should be noted that the rotational position deviation signal RPD in Fig. lOb is shown in the form of its absolute value. During rotation of the spindle the changeover switch 12 is connected to the a side in Fig. 5, thereby forming a speed control loop. More specifically, the adder 3a receives the speed command signal CV and the average speed signal AV from the tachometer 5, and responds by delivering a rotational speed deviation voltage. The voltage to phase converter 3c controls the firing angle of the thyristors in the thyristor converter 3d in accordance with the speed deviation voltage, the thyristor converter 3d thereby regulating the voltage applied to the DC motor 4. As a result, the actual speed of the motor 4 is regulated to bring it into coincidence with the speed command.Therefore the speed control loop regulates the speed of the motor so as to rotate the spindle at approximately the command speed. When the machining work is completed under these conditions, a control device, such as a numerical control device, instructs the orientation command circuit 2 to apply the orientation command signal ORCM to the loop changeover circuit llb at the time t0 to place this circuit in the set state. At the same time, the orientation command signal ORCM is applied to the speed command circuit 1, so that the speed command CV drops to a voltage of zero. The actual speed of the spindle consequently decreases and reaches zero at time tl.When this occurs, the zero speed signal VZR is generated within the position deviation signal generating circuit lla, and causes the loop changeover circuit lib to changeover the switch 12 to the side b, so that circuit operation now changes from speed control to position control, The position deviation signal generating circuit lla produces first the initially set voltage ISV Vi at the same time that the speed zero signal VZR is produced. In response to thiss ignal the spindle begins to rotate again so that the signal AV indicative of the actual speed of the spindle rises to assume the value Vi.As the magnetic body 10a continues to rotate and reaches the predetermined rotational position for the first time time t2 , the rotational position deviation signal generating circuit lla begins generating the coarse position deviation signal CPD. As the spindle continues to rotate and the magnetic body lOa approaches the area in the environs of the predetermined rotational position time t3 , the position deviation signal generating circuit lla produces the bias signal BIS. Then, when the magnetic body l0a arrives at the abovementioned area time t4 , the fine position deviation signal DV2 starts being generated.When the signal DV2 has decreased to zero, namely when the central portion of the magnetic body the specified point on the spindle is directly confronting the central portion of the saturable reactor SAR2, the spindle stops rotating. This completes positioning control of the spindle. Reference will now be had to Figs. llA and llB for a fuller understanding of the principal portions of the rotational position deviation signal generating circuit lla, and ta Fi. 13 for a description of a DC voltage generating circuit which generates the voltages Vi, Vi as the signalISV in accordance with the direction of spindle rotation.Portions in Figs. llA and llB identical with those of Fig.5 are denoted by like reference characters and are not described again in order to avoid prolixity. The DC voltage generating circuit, denoted at numeral 100 in Fig. llA, generates a DC voltage RDV whose polarity depends upon the direction of spindle rotation. An operational amplifier AMP amplifies the output AV of the tachometer 5, the output AV representing the actual speed of the spindle. The amplified signal, namely a voltage AV indicative of actual spindle speed, is applied to comparators COPS, COMB.The comparator COMA compares the amplitude of the voltage AV with a reference voltage refv 75mV , and delivers a signal at logical O when AV refv, and at logical 1 when AV S refv. The comparator COMB compares the amplitude of the voltage AV with a reference voltage refv 75mV , and delivers a signal at logical 1 when AV refv, and at logical 0 when AV c refv.This is shown in Fig. 13A. The voltage level of logical O is higher than 4.5 volts, and the voltage level of logical 1 is lower than 0 volts. In accordance with the foregoing, the outputs of comparators COMA, COWS are 1 and O , respectively, when the spindle is rotating in the forward direction, and O and 1 , respectively, when the spindle is rotating in the reverse direction. Setting means PDS such as a switch is provided to preset the direction from which the spindle will be stopped at the predetermined rotational position. A connection between the points a, c and between the points b, d will allow the spindle to be stopped at the predetermined position when it is rotating in the forward direction, whereas a connection between the points b, c and between the points a, d will allow it to be stopped at the predetermined position when rotating in the reverse direction. Designated at ND1 and ND2 are NAND gates which deliver their outputs to a latch circuit LTC. The latch circuit LTC produces a rotational direction signal PhS which is sent to an analog circuit PNDG for producing a DC voltage RDV whose po larity depends upon the logical value of the signal FWD. If the outputs of the NAND gates ND1, ND2 are denoted by C and D, rqspectivel, and if the preset rotational direction is the forward direction, then C, D and the signal FWD will be related in the manner shown inFig. 13B when the spindle is rotating in the forward direction and when it is rotating in the reverse direction. When the rotational direction signal FWD is logical O spindle is rotating in the reverse direction , a PNP transistor TR is rendered conductive so that the analog circuit PNDG delivers a 7.5 volt DC voltage RDV. When FlD is a 1 spindle is rotating in the forward direction , on the other hand, transistor TR is cut off so that the analog circuit PEDG dlivers a 7.5 volt DC voltage RDV. A circuit 101 is provided to form the initially set voltage ISV and the bias voltage BIS, to integrate the actual speed of the spindle the AV signal voltage .and to subtract the output voltage resulting from the integration operation the actual rotational position of the spindle from the initially set voltage ISV. Specifically, the DC voltage RDV obtained from the DC voltage generating circuit 100 is the 7.5 volt signal if the spindle is at rest or if it is rotating in the forward direction, or the 7.5 volt signal if the spindle is rotating in the reverse direction. The DC voltage RDV charges a capacitor C through an amplifier AMP1 and a switch Sg, the voltage charged in the capacitor C becoming the value Vi or Vi of the initially set voltage ISV.If the voltage of the actual speed signal AV is applied to the circuit 101 through either switch or S7 after the switch Sg has been opened, the capacitor C charges or discharges at the time constant RC in accordance with the direction of spindle rotation, and the coarse position deviation signal CPD, obtained due to the Aubstraction of the voltage, resulting from the integration of the actual speed AV, from the initially set voltage ISV, appears at the output of the amplifier Abc2. The amplifier AMP2, resistor R and capacitor C form an integration circuit.If the switches Sg, Slo are closed after the voltage of the coarse position deviation signal CPD reaches a specified value, the circuit 101 acts as an amplifier, and the bias signal BIS at the specified level is obtained at the output of the amplifier AMP2. In other words, in accordance with the particular combination and timing of the opening and closing operation of the switches S7 through S1O, first the initially set voltage ISV is delivered, then the coarse position deviation signal CPD, and finally the bias signal BIS. Numerals 102, 103 denote changeover circuits for switching gain in accordance with gear ratio. These circuits are operable to set the gain of the position control loop high when the gears between the DC motor 4 and the spindle 7 are set low reduction ratio high , and to set the gain low when the gears are set high reduction ratio low , that is, to set the gain low in comparison with the gain for the high reduction ratio. More specifically, when the reduction ratio is high, switches S7, S2 are closed to raise the gain, and when the reduction ratio is low, switches Sg, S3 are closed to lower the gain. This eliminates spindle hunting and overshoot when stopping the spindle at the predetermined rotational position, and permits the spindle stopping operation to be completed in less time regardless of the scale of the reduction ratio. Denoted at 104 is a well known absolute value circuit which takes the absolute value of the output from the circuit 101. A comparator 105 detects whether or not the coarse position deviation signal CPD has fallen below a predetermined level, and produces a signal NRPS which indicates that the predetermined portion the magnetic body lOa has drawn near the area in the environs of the predetermined rotational stopping position. The signal WRAPS closes the switches Sg, S10. A gain adjustment circuit 106 adjusts the gain in accordance with the gap between the magnetjcbody 10a and the sensing portion lOb, and produces the detection voltage DV2 the fine position deviation voltage having a prescribed slope. A slicer circuit 107 slices the approach signal ASV at a predetermined level and produces a signalLS which indicates that the magnetic body has reached the area in the environs of the predetermined rotational position. The signal LS opens the switches Sg, S6 and closes switch S4. As a result, the fine position deviation signal DV2 is delivered as the deviation signal. A forward reverse changeover circuit 108 has its switch Sg closed in a case where the spindle is controlled by rotating it in the forward direction, and its switch S6 closed in a case where the spindle is controlled by rotating it in the reverse direction. An in position signal generating circuit 109, comprising a comparator, monitors the fine position deviation signal DV2 and generates the in position signal INPOS when the spindle is within range of the predetermined rotational position. Thereafter a signal indicating completion of the orientation operation is sent to the numerical control unit. Comparators 110, 111 monitor he fine position deviation signal DV2 and produce signals NEG , POS ùpon detecting whether the spindle is approaching the predetermined rotational direction while rotating in the reverse direction signal NEG at logical 1 or while roating in the forward direction signal POS at logical 1 , respectively. One of the switches Sg, Sg will be closed and the other will be opened by the signals VZR and LS depending upon which of the signals NEG, POS is a 1 .A waveform synthesizing circuit 112 delivers either the fine position deviation signal or the coarse position deviation signal in accordance with the open or closed state of the switch S4, S5 or S6. A speed detection circuit 113 receives the voltage AV indicative of the actual speed of the spindle and generates the zero speed signalVZR when AV falls to zero. An orientation completion signal generating circuit 114 receives the in position signalINPOS, the zero speed signal VZR and the orientation command signal ORCM, and takes the logical product of these signals, thereby producing the orientation completion signal ORDEN when INPOS, VZR and ORCM are all at logical 1 . In summary, if the orientation command signal ORCM goes to logical 1 , at time to, the command speed voltageCV drops to zero volts, so that the actual speed decreases, with the voltage indicative of the actual speed dropping to zero volts and the zero speed signal VZR going to logical 1 . When this occurs the loop changeover switch 12 is switched over to the side b, one of the switches S2, S3 is closed in accordance with the low high setting of the gears, and one of the switches Sg, S6 is closed inaccord ance with the direction, either forward or reverse of spindle rotation. This forms a position control loop, with the initially set voltage ISV being delivered from the changeover switch 12. It should be noted that the switch Sg is closed, and that switches S7, S8, Slo are open. The DC motor 4 shown in Fig. 5 begins rotating again so that the spindle is rotated and reaches the predetermined rotational position the first time i.e., the signal LS is a tl , and the in position signal INPOS is a 1 . Hence, at time t2, switch Sg is opened and one of the switchesS7, S8 is closed in accordance with the low high setting of the gears. Therefore the coarse position deviation signal CPD is obtained from the changeover switch 12.Thereafter, as the actual speed and the position deviation decrease and the spindle approaches the area in the environs of the predetermined rotational position time t3 , the comparator 105 issues the signal NRPS logical 1 , whereby the switches Sg and S10 are closed. As a result, the bias signal BIS of the prescribed level is delivered from the changeover switch 12. As the spindle continues to rotate at a slower speed and reaches the area NCP in the environs of the predetermined rotational position time t , the signal LS goes to the 1 level, switches Sg, S6 are opened, and switch S4 is closed. Hence, the fine position deviation signal DV2 is delivered from the changeover switch 12.When the magnetic body lOa the predetermined point on the spindle comes within range of the predetermined rotational position, the in position signal INPOS is generated. This is followed by the actual speed of the spindle falling to zero, whereupon the speed zero signalVZR returns to logical 1 . This completes the control operation for stopping the spindle at the predetermined rotational position, the orientation completion signalORDEN being delivered from the orientation completion signal generating circuit 114. In the foregoing it was described that the opera tion for stopping the spindle at the predetermined position is carried out after the actual speed has dropped to zero.However, this can be performed when the actual speed has reached a certain speed other than zero. In accordance with the present 3TM1nnt as described above, a spindle can be stopped at a predetermined rotational position with a high accuracy without relying upon contacting parts such as a mechanical brake. A highly accurate proximity switch is provided and adapted to pro duce a fine position deviation signal when a specified point on the spindle has reached the vicinity of the predetermined rotational position, whereby an extremely high accuracy on the order to from 0.30 to 0.05 can be obtained, as confirmed by measurements. Furthermore, since the spindle can be stopped at the predetermined rotational position from both the forward and reverse directions, the control operation requires less time so that machining efficiency is improved. In addition, highly precise machining can be achieved and flawing of the workpiece eliminated during a boring operation since the spindle can be stopped at the predetermined position without requiring a reversal in direction. Although the invention has been described in its preferred form with a certain degree of particularity, it is obvious that many modifications and variatibns are possi Plc in the light of the above teachings. It is therefore to bye understood that within the scope of the appended claims, the invention may be practiced otherwise than as specifically described. The described embodiment provides a system for stopping a spindle 7, which is provided in a machine tool, in such a manner that a specified point on the spindle 7 is stopped at a predetermined rotational position. The system includes means for detecting the direction of spindle rotation. When the spindle 7 arrives at a region where it is to be controlled in order to stop at the predetermined rotational position, a position deviation signal RPD is applied as the input signal of a speed control loop for controlling the rotation of the spindle 7. This signal 3eads the specified point on the spindle 7 to the predetermined rotational position, from the direction in which the spindle 7 is rotating, on the basis of the direction signal from the detecting means. That is, the specified point on the spindle 7 is guided to the predetermined rotational position from a direction which is the same as the direction of rotation.