# Emulsions of vinyl resins and their use in coating compositions.

## Abstract
Vinyl resins containing carboxyl or sulfonic acid functionalities can be formulated as stable aqueous microemulsions suitable for preparing coatings by converting them to ionomers in a mixture of solvents and water.

## Claims
WHAT IS CLAIMED IS 1. Method of preparing aqueous microemulsions of vinyl resins having carboxylic or sulfonic groups therein which comprises vigorously blending said resins with a water miscible base, water, at least one organic watermiscible solvent which has an affinity for said resins and a boiling point below 1600C., an organic and a water miscible co solvent which is a poor solvent for said resins but is miscible with the organic solvents and has a boiling point above that of the organic solvents and water. 2. Method of preparing aqueous microemulsions of vinyl resins having an average particle size of 0.02 to 0.14 microns which comprises blending A a normally solid vinyl resin containing carboxylic or sulfonic acid groups and having the following moieties copolymerized hereinEMI53.1 EMI54.1 wherein m and n are percentages each having a value of 0 99 t is a percentage having a value of 0 59Z p is a percentage having a value of 1 30 when q 0 q is a percentage having a value of 1 30 when p 0 with the proviso that mnn t is 70 70 and 992, that m n t p q 100 , that when m O, n is at least 1 and that when n w O, mis at least 1 wherein X is a monovalent radical selected from the group consisting of H and lower alkyls having 1 4 carbons W is a monovalent radical selected from the group consisting of H, lower alkyls, aryl having 6 to 9 carbons,EMI54.2 wherein a is an integer having values of 1 3,EMI54.3 OR wherein R is a C1 C18, alkyl, OH,EMI55.1 N R1 2 wherein RI is a monovalent radical selected from the group consisting of H, methyl or ethyl, and CN Y is a monovalent radical selected from the group consisting of H, methylEMI55.2 wherein b is an integer having values of 0 4 and Z is a monovalent radical selected from the group consisting ofEMI55.3 OH, SO3H and C6H4 SO3H, with the proviso that Y and Z are never COOH and 503H at the same time, B sufficient water miscible base to neutralize 10X to 1005 of said carboxylic or sulfonic acid groups, C 1 to . 200 parts, per 100 parts by weight of vinyl resin of a water miscible normally liquid solvent for said vinyl resin having a boiling point of up to 160 C., selected from the group consisting of lower aliphatic ketones, esters or ethers having 3 to 6 carbon atoms and cycloaliphatic ketones or ethers having 4 to 6 carbon atoms D 1 to 200 parts, per 100 parts by weight of vinyl resin, of a normally liquid co solvent which is miscible with water and solvent C , having a boiling point greater than that of solvent C , selected from the group consisting of 1 glycol monoalkyl ethers having the formula EMI56.1 where each of R , R is H or CH , r is an integer 3 having values of 1 to 3 and R is an alkyl group having 1 to about 4 carbon atoms, 2 aliphatic acidic ethers having the formula EMI56.2 wherein R is an alkyl group having 1 to 4 carbon atoms 3 amino esters having the formula EMI56.3 4 amino ketones having the formula EMI56.4 5 aliphatic alcohols having the formula R2OH, where R2 is alkyl having 1 to 5 carbons, 6 aliphatic carboxylic acids having the formula EMI56.5 where R3 is H or alkyl having 1 to 4 carbons, 7 aliphatic amines having the formula EMI56.6 where R4 and B5 are E or alkyl having 1 to 6 carbons and R6 is alkyl having 1 to 6 carbons with the proviso that the total number of carbons in the sum of R4 R5 R 6 6, 8 aliphatic amino ethers having the formula EMI57.1 where R7 is methyl or ethyl, and g has values of 1 4, 9 aliphatic dialkyl amides having the formula R CON R7 2 8 72 where R8 is H or alkyl having 1 to 5 carbons, 10 N Hydroxymethyl acrylamide and N hydroxymethyl methacrylamide having the formula CH CR CONHCH OH 2 9 2 where B is H or CH 9 3 11 cycloaliphatic ether alcohols having the formula EMI57.2 R OH 10 where R10 is alkylene having 1 to 3 carbons and v is an integer having values of 1 to 5, 12 hydroxy esters having the formula EMI57.3 13 hydroxy ketones having the formula EMI58.1 E sufficient water to provide an aqueous microemulsion having a total solids content of up to 60 by weight. 3. Method claimed in claim 2 wherein the vinyl resin contains 60 to 91 weight vinyl chloride, 10 to 25 weight vinyl acetate and 1 to 15 carboxyl containing ehtylenically unsaturated hydrocarbon, preferably maleic acid or fumaric acid, 4. Method claimed in claim 2 wherein the vinyl resin contains 75 to 99 weight vinyl chloride and 1 to 25 acrylic or methacrylic acid copolymerized therein. 5. Method claimed in claim 2 wherein a mixture of an vinyl chloride vinyl acetate maleic acid terpolymer and a vinyl chloride vinyl acetate glycidyl acrylate or methacrylate terpolymer or a vinyl chloride vinyl acetate hydroxy alkyl acrylate or methacrylate terpolymer having 2 to 3 carbons in the alkyl group or a vinyl chloride vinyl acetate vinyl alcohol terpolymer is used. 6. Method claimed in claim 2 wherein the vinyl resin is a terpolymer of vinyl chloride, vinylidene. chloride and an ethylenically unsaturated carboxylic acid, preferably maleic acid or fumaric acid,or acylic or methacrylic acid. 7. Method claimed in claim 2 wherein the vinyl resin is a copolymer of vinyl chloride and an ethylenically unsaturated carboxylic acid, preferably acrylic or methacrylic acid. 8. Method claimed in claim 2 wherein the vinyl resin is a copolymer of vinylidene chloride and an ethylenically unsaturated carboxylic acid. 9. Method claimed in claims 2 8 wherein the vinyl resin A is first dissolved in the solvent C and co solvent D , contacted with base B and then emulsified with water. 10. Method claimed in claim 2 8 wherein the vinyl resin A is pulverized and added to a mixture of base B , solvent C , co solvent D and water with vigorous agitation. 11. Method claimed in claims 2 10 wherein a crosslinking amount of a thermosetting resin is blended into the microemulsion. 12. Method claimed in claims 2 11 wherein the thermosetting resin is an epoxy resin, a hexamethoxymethylmelamine or a methylated urea formaldehyde resin. 13. Microemulsion obtained by the method claimed in claims 1 12.

## Description
BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION This invention pertains to the preparation of stable aqueous mlcroemulsions of carboxylic acid or sulfonic acid containing vinyl resins in a solventico solvents mixture by converting said vinyl resins to jonomers. Vinyl resin lacquers are old in the art and have enjoyed commercial success for coating various substrates with clear vinyl coatings. The coating operation however, involves the removal of large quantities of organic solvents in which the vinyl resins are dis solved. For ecological and anti pollution considerations solvent based coatings are undesirable. This has led to consideration of water borne resin systems for coating applications. It has not been found feasible to simply substitute a water borne system for the vinyl resin lacquers for several reasons. While one may make vinyl resin latexes by emulsion polymerization these polymerization techniques require the presence of components in the polymerization recipe which have a deleterious effect on the final coating.This is particularly true in can coatings where such criteria as blush resistance and water resistance particularly at pasteurization temperatures is required. The presence of surfactants required to maintain stable emulsions increases the susceptibility of resin coatings on substrates to brcak down in contact vith water. It is therefore an object of this invention to afford r water borne vinyl resin which is free of sur fctants. SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION It has nov been found that water borne vinyl resin systems meeting the objects of this invention are provided by stable aqueous microemulsions of vinyl resins having an average particle size of 0.02 to 0.14 microns prepared by vigorously blending vinyl resins having carboxylic or sulfonic acid groups therein with a base, water, at least one organic water miscible solvent which has an affinity for said resins and a boiling point below 160 C and an oreanic, vater miscible co solvent which is a poor solvent for said resins but is miscible with the organic solvents and has 1 boiling point above that of the organic solvents. It is preferred to prepare these microemulsions by blending A a normally solid vinyl resin con taming carboxylic or sulfonic acid groups and having the following moieties copolyrerized hereinEMI2.1 EMI3.1 wherein m and n are percentages each having a value of 99 , t is s percentage having a value of 0 59 p is a percentage having a value of 1 30 when q I 0 q is a percentage having a value of 1 30 when p 0 with the proviso that m n is 70 and 99Z, that m m n t p q 100 , that when m C, n is at least l and that when n 0, u is at least 1 wherein X is a monovalent radical selected from the group consisting of E and lower alkyl having 1 4 carbons W is a monovalent radical selected from the group consisting of H, lower alkyl, aryl having 6 to 9 carbons,EMI3.2 wherein is an integer having values of 1 3, EMI4.1 wherein R is a C1 C18 alkyl OH,EMI4.2 wherein R is nonovalent radical selected from the group consisting of H, methyl or ethyl, and CN Y is a monovalent radical selected from the group consisting of H, methyl,EMI4.3 wherein b is an integer having values of 0 4, and Z is a monovalent radical selected from the group consisting ofEMI4.4 SO3R and C6H4 SO3H, with the proviso thatY and Z are never COOH and S03H at the same time, B sufficient vater miscible base to neutralize 10 to 100 of said carboxylic or sulfonic acid groups, C 1 to 200 parts, per 100 parts by weight of vinyl resin, of a water miscible normally liquid solvent for said vinyl resin having a boiling point of up to 160 C., selected from the group consisting of lower aliphatic ketones esters or ethers having 3 to 6 6 carbon atoms and cycloaliphatic ketones or ethers having 4 to 6 carbon atoms D 1 tc 200 parts, per 100 parts by weight of vinyl resin, of a normally liquid co solvent which is miscible with water and solvent C , having boiling point greater than that of solvent C , selected from the group consisting of I glycol monoalkyl ethers having the formulaEMI5.1 where each of R R is H or CH3 r is an integer having values of 1 to 3 and R is an alkyl group having 1 to 6 carbon atoms0 2 aliphatic acidic ethers having the formula EMI5.2 wherein R is an alkyl group having 1 to 4 carbon atoms 3 amino esters having the formula EMI5.3 4 amino ketones having the formula EMI5.4 5 aliphatic alcohols having the formula R2OH, where R2 is alkyl having I to S carbons, 6 aliphatic carboxylic acids having the formula EMI6.1 where R3 i H or alkyl having 1 to 4 carbons 7 aliphatic amines having the formula EMI6.2 where R4 and R5 are H or alkyl having 1 to 6 carbons and R6 is alkyl having 1 to 6 carbons with the proviso that the total number of carbons in the sum of R a 4 5 R6 6. 8 aliphatic amino ethers having the formula EMI6.3 where R7 is methyl or ethyl, and t has values of 1 4, 9 aliphatic dialkyl amides having the formula R8 CON R7 2 where R8 is H or alkyl having I to 5 carbons, 10 N Hydroxymethyl acrylamide and N hydroxymethyl methacrylamide having the formula CH2 CR9CONHCH2OH where R9 is H or CH3, 11 cycloaliphatic ether alcohol having the formula 11 cycloaliphatic ether alcohols having the formula EMI7.1 where R10 is alkylene having 1 to 3 carbons and v is an integer having values of 1 to 5, 12 hydroxy esters having the formula EMI7.2 13 hydroxy ketones having the formulaEMI7.3 and E sufficient water to provide an aqueous microemulsion having a total solids content of up to 60 by weight. The vinyl resins useful in this invention in their broadest sense are copolymers of vinyl. chloride vinylidene chloride or both copolymerized with a vinyl comonomer containing at least one carboxylic acid group a COOH or sulfonic acid group SO3H Exemplary resins include copolymers of vinyl chloride and acrylic or methacrylic acid, vinyl chloride and maleic acid. or vinyl chloride and styrene sulfonic acid Co polymers of vinylidene chloride and acrylic or methacrylic acid, vinylidene chloride and maleic acid, or vinylidene chloride and styrene sulfonic acid, These vinyl resins also encompass three component copolymers containing for example the following monomers copolymerized therein vinyl chloride vinyl acetate acrylic acid vinyl chloride vinyl acetate maleic acid vinyl chloride vinyl acetate crotonic acid vinyl chloride vinyl acetate 5 norbornene 2,3di carboxylic acid, monobutyl ester vinyl chloride vinyl acetate funaric acid vinyl chloride methyl nethacrylate maleic acid vinyl chloride acrylonitrileZmalesc acid vinyl chloride styrene maleic acid vinyl chloride vinyl stearate maleic acid vinyl chloride 2 propenyl acetate maleie acid vinyl chloride hydroxypropylacrylate maleic acid vinyl chioride glycidyl methacrylate maleic acid vinyl chloride acrylamide maleic acid vinyl chloride vinyl alcohol maleic acid vinyl chloride vinyl butyl ether maleic acid vinyl chloride ethyl acrylate maleic acid vinyl chloride ethyleneJmaleic acid vinyl chloride ethylene acrylic acid vinyl chloride propylene maleic acid vinyl chloride styrene acrylic acid vinyl chloride vinyl acetate styrene sulfonic acid vinyl chloride vinyl acetate vinyl sulfonic acid, and the like as well as other terpolymers in which vinylidene chloride is substituted for vinyl chloride in this list. In addiction four component quadripolymers can also be used wherein both vinyl chloride and vinylidene chloride are copolymerized with the other comononers shown in the terpolymer in the preceding paragraph. The amount of each monomer copolymerized in the vinyl resins is not narrowly critical. The ethylenlcally unsaturated carboxylic acid enumerated above as well as the other cononomers are commercially available. The more common sulfonic acid containing monomers are also commercially available or can be synthesized by sulfonation of ethylenically unsaturated monomers ranging from aliphatic monomers, such as, ethylene to aromatic monomers, such as, styrene, with knows sulfonation agents such as, listed in UnitProcesses in Organic Synthesis by P.H. Groggins, McGrawHill Co., Inc., page 262 NYC 1947 . The invention is not limited to single copolymers and so various combinations of two or more of these vinyl resins can be emulsified as well. Preferred vinyl chloride resins include vinyl chloride terpolymers having 60 to 91 weight 2 vinyl chloride, 10 to 25 weight Z vinyl acetate and 1 to 15 weight of maleic acid, fumaric acid or crotonic acid copolymerized therein.Such terpolymers may be obtained commercially or may be synthesized by a free radical initiated polymerization of vinyl chloride, vinyl acetate and maleic acid, or maleic anhydride, fumuric acid or crotonic acid. The above described vinyl chloride resins can also be blended vith vinyl chloride vinyl acetate terpolymers containing glycidyl or hydroxyalkyl acrylates or methacrylates having 2 or 3 carbons in the alkyl group to afford crosslinked coatings. One can also add thermosetting resins, such as, epoxy resins ures resins and melamine resin. to obtain a higher degree of crosslinking. Preferred epoxy resins include liquid and solid diglycidyl ethers of bisphenol A which are commercially available and described in Epoxy Resins by H. Lee and K, Neville, McGraw Hill and Co., Inc. NYC 1957. incorporated herein by reference. Preferred melamine resins are the hexatnethoxy methylmelamine resins. Preferred urrea resins are the methylated urea formaldehyde resins. These are commercially available. Blush or whitening of the coatings is deter mined subjectively, a test well known to those skilled in the art. Cross hatch adhesive failure determinations are made scratching r cross on the coated substrates with a sharp pointed instrument, pressing sections of Scotch tape across the scratched portions and then ripping theScotch tape away from the coated surface. Failures are indicated by the amount by coating which pulls away fron the substrate. It is a unique feature of the xlcroemulsions described herein that very thin continuous protective films can be laid on both metallic and non metallic substrates. The resultant films are pin hole free, blush resistant and adhere tenaciously to the substrates.It is unexpected that these film properties are provided without the necessity of utilizing leveling aids or plasticizers. While it is not necessary if viscosity d justments of the microemulsions is desired minor amounts, i.e. up to.8 of the weight of vinyl resins, of thickening agents can also be included in the composition used to emulsify the vinyl resins. Suitable thickening agents include such water soluble resins as, hydrolyzed polyvinyl acetates or polyvinyl alcohol water soluble cellulose derivatives, e.g.. hydroxyethyl cellulose, polyethylene glycols, acrylic or methacrylic acid poly mere,poly caprolactone , polyvinyl pyrrolidone. and poly methylvinyl ether , Other additives known to those skilled in the art can also be incorporated into the microemulsions if desired.These include dyes, pigments, fillers, antioxidants, ultraviolet stabilizers, and heat stabil izers. Tor the purposes of this invention the tem water miscible base is used in the broad sense of any proton acceptor which will neutralize the acid functionalities in the vinyl resin. i.e., COOH or SO3H groups and whose solubility is at least 1. . per 100 cc of water. Exemplary bases which may be organic or inorganic, include alkali metal or alkaline earth hydroxides such as, sodium hydroxide, potassium hydroxide, lithium hydroxide magnesium hydroxide, calcium hydroxide, strontium hydroxide a or barium hydroxide, and ammonium hydroxide organic amines including monoalkylamines, alkenediamines, alkanolamines. aromatic amines, cyclic amines, or alkyl amines.For economic reesons and ready availability alkali metal, alkaline earth and ammonium hydroxides are preferred in organic bases. In coating application it is preferred to use volatile bases which are fugitive and consequently reversible ionomers are formed. For example, ammonium hydroxide or lower molecular weight alkylamines form monomers which afford coatings wherein the ionomer moieties revert to acid and from which the base, being fugitive is removed. This enhances blush resistance and minimize color formation upon exposure of the final coating to the elements. Particularly preferred alkyl amines include monomethyl amine, dimethyl amino, trimethyl amine, and triethyl amine. In general, preferred alkyl gamines have. the formula EMI12.1 wherein each of Ra, Rb and Rc in H or a C1 C6 alkyl with the proviso that Ra Rb Rc 6 carbons, Preferred alkylene diamines have the formula H2N D xNH2 where x 1 8 and D is alkylene radical. Preferred alkanolamines include mono , di . and tri ethanolamine, N methyl ethanolamine, N.Ndimethylethanolamine, N,N die hyl ethanolamine, Naminoethylethanolamine, and N methyl diethanolamine. Preferred cyclic gamines include morpholine,N methyl morpholine, piperidine, pyrrolidine. piperazine, N methyl piperazine, N 2 hydroxyethyl piper azine, N aminoethyl piperazine, 2,5 dimethyl piperazine, and hexamethylene tetramine. Preferred lower aliphatic ketone solvents include acetone. methyl ethyl ketone HEX , diethyl ketone, methyl n propyl ketone, methyl isopropyl ketone, acetyl acetone, and l methoxy 2 propane. Preferred lower aliphatic esther solvents include methyl formate, ethyl formate, methyl acetate, ethyl acetate. and isopropyl acetate. Preferred lower aliphatic ether so ents include diethyl ether, ethyl propyl ether, and di npropyl ether. Preferred cycloaliphatic ketones solvents include cyclobutanone, cyclopentanone, and cyclohexanone. Preferred cycloaliphatic ether solvents in dude, dioxanc, and tetrahydrofurane. Depending on the particular vinyl resin used it may be preferable to use mixtures of these solvents rather than a single solvent. For Example with a vinyl chloride vinyl acetate maleic acid terpolymer the combination of acetone with another ketone such as, methyl ethyl ketone will give microemulsions superior to those formulated with acetone alone. Exemplary co solvents are presented below. Representative glycol monoalkyl ethers are monomethyl, ethyl, propyl, butyl ethers of ethylene glycol, diethylene glycol, triethylene glycol, propylene glycol, dipropylene glycol, and phenyl glycol ether. Representative aliphatic acidic ethers include ethoxyacetic acid, alpha methoxt propionic acid, dimethoxy acetic acid, and ethoxy propionic acid. Representative amino esters include methyl ss aminopropinate, ethyl aminoacetate, and ethyl amin,opropionate Representative amino ketones include amino acetone, and 2 aminobutanone. Representative aliphatic alcohols include, methanol, ethanol, propanols, butanols, and pentanols. Representative aliphatic carboxylic acids include formic, acetic, propionic, and butyric Representative aliphatic amines include methylamine, dimethylamine, methyl ethylamine, dimethylamine.triethylamine, n butylamine, and hexyamine. Representative aliphatic amino ethers include gamma methoxy n propylamine, gamma ethoxy n propylamine, ss methoxy isobutylamine, and ss ethoxy n butylamine. Representative aliphatic dialkyl mlée include N,N dimethylformamide, N,N diethylformamide, andN,N dimethyl acetamide. Representative cycloaliphatic ether alcohols include glycol and tetrahydrofurfuryl alcohol. Representative hydroxy esters include methyl lactate methyl ss hydroxypropionatc and ethyl ss hydroxypropionate. Representative hydroxy ketones include 1hydroxy 2 propanone, 1 hydroxy 3 butanone 3 methyl 4 hydroxy 2 butanone 1 hydroxy 2 pentanone, and 4 hydroxy2 pentanone. The order of addition of the components used to prepare these microemulsions is not critical. Thus for example one may first make a varnish of the vinyl resin with the solvent and co solvant, followed by conversion to an ionomer with base and then emulsification with water. The water can be added to the varnish or vice verso. One may also make these microemul ions from dry vinyl resin rather than r varnish thereof, by adding pulverized resin pellets to a mixture of solvent, Co solvent, base and water. The degree of neutralization of the acid moieties in the vinyl resin components can as pointed out above vary over a wide range. i.e., from 10 to 100 . The optimum degree of neutralization depends upon the amount of acid moiety in the vinyl resin. Thus for example a vinyl resin containing a lov amount of acid moiety, e.g.. 2 or 3 weight Z should be neutralized with base to a much greater extent than s vinyl resin containing a large amount of acid moieties.This is believed to be due to the higher polarity of the higher acid moiety containing vinyl resins. No special equipment is needed to effect emulsification other than agitation or mixing equipment known to those skilled in the art. While not wishing to be bound by any theoretical explanation, it is believed that the formulation of the micr emulsions of this invention is achieved without the necessity of employing surfactants by the use of a combination of A an organic solvent which Ci is water miscible, i.e., at least 1 and preferably 102 water is soluble in said solvent on a weight basis li has an affinity for the vinyl resin used, i.e., the solvent resin interaction is greater than the resin resin interaction iii has 1 boiling point below 160 C., B an organic co solvent, which i is as water miscible as the solvent in tii is s poor solvent for the vinyl resin used i.e., the o solvent resin interaction is the resin resin interaction iii has a boiling point greater than the above mentioned solvent and C a vinyl resin containing an ionomer functionality copolymerized therein. The above described combination of solvent and co solvent surprisingly lowers the interfacial tension between the vinyl resin and the aqueous phase while avoiding coagulation, This affords the formation of a microemulsion where the mice lies are stabilized by the ionomer repulsion of the ionomer moiety and the surfactant like property of the co solvent. When this stage is reached it is no longer necessary to have the solvent present and concentration of microemulsion can be effected to afford a higher solids content. In the application of these microemulsions to a substrate to form a coating the co solvent also can be removed from the system with the water leaving only the vinyi resin to constitute the coating.In the case of vinyl resins neutralized with a volatile base, the ionomer in the vinyl resin reverts to the original free acid moiety. The invention is further described in theExamples which follow. All parts and percentages are by weight unless otherwise specified.EXAMPLE 1 PREPARATION OF SODIUM IONOMER MICROEMULSION To a varnish composed of 56 . of BakeliteVMCA vinyl resin a terpolymer containing 81 vinyl chloride, 17Z vinyl acetate and 2 maleic acid copolymerlzed therein , 65.3 g. of each of butyl Cellosolve trade mark of Union Carbide Corporation for the monobutyl ether of ethylene glycol , and 65.3 g. of methyl ethyl ketone was was added with vigorous stirring 258 g. of an aqueous solution containing 0.7725 g. of sodium hydroxide.Mixing was carried out in a high speed Waring Blender for 10 minutes. An aqueous emulsion of jonomer, that is, VHCA terpolymer neutralized with base to contain sodium meleate moieties rather than maleic acid moieties, was obtained which was uniform and translucent. The Brookfield viscosity of this emulsion was 21 centipoise. The pH was 7.8 at 25 C. The average size of the micelles measured by the scanning electron microscope technique, was found to be 0.04 0.05 microns.This is within the range of microemulsion particles as defined in Advances in Colloid and Interface Science 4, pages 231 300 1975 , edited by K. Shinoda and S. Friberg. EXAMPLE 2 PREPARATION OF AMMONIUM IONOMER MICROEMULSION The procedure described in Example 1 was repeated with the exception that 2.33 g. of 58 aqueous ammonium hydroxide solution was substituted for the sodium hydroxide. A translucent, uniform, microemulsion was obtained having a Brookfield viscosity of 24 centipoise.EXAMPLE 2a PREPARATION OF AMMOXIUM IONOMER MICROEMULSION The procedure described in Example 2 was repeated with the exception that the 65.3 g. of MEK was replaced by an equal amount of methyl acetate A translucent, uniform microemulsion was obtained having a Brookfield viscosity of 25.6 cps at 26 C.EXAMPLE 3 CONCENTRATION OF AMMONIUM IONOMER MICROEMULSION The microemulsion prepared in Example 2 was stripped under vacuum at 45 C. uzing a Rinco rotary evaporator. A total of 219.8 g. of Condensate was collected containing water, butyl, Cellosolve and all of the MEK. The residual microemulsion remaining in the pot contained 28 of ionomer resin, 22 of butyl Cellosolve and 482 of water. The emulsion was uniform, very fluid and could be diluted with water or butyl Cellosolve without breaking the microemulsion.EXAMPLE 4 PREPARATION OF TRIMEIHYLAMINE IONOMER MICRO EHULSION The procedure used in Example 1 was repeated with the exception that, the vinyl resin was neutralized with 5.6 g. of a 25 trimethylamine solution in methanol.A uniform, translucent, ionomer microemulsion was obtained, which had a Brookfield viscosity of 17.6 centipoise at 25.5 C.EXAMPLE 4a PREPARATION OF TRIMETHYLAMINE IONOMER MICROEMULSION The procedure described in Example 4 was repeated vith the exception that the MEK vas replaced with an equivalent amount of a 111 weight ratio mixture ofMEK acetone. A uniform, translucent ionomer microemulsion was obtained having a Brookfield viscosity of.lg centi poise at 260C. EXAMPLE 4b PREPARATION OF TRIMETHYLAMINE IONOMER MICROEMULSION Example 4 was repeated with the exception that the MEK was replaced by an equivalent amount of a 5 1 weight ratio mixture of MEK methyl isobutyl ketone. A uniform, translucent, ionomer, microemulsion was obtained having e Brookfield viscosity of 20 centipoise at 26 C.EXAMPLE 4c PREPARATION OF TRIMETHYLAMINE IONOMER MICROEMULSION Example 4 was repeated with the exception that the MEK was replaced by an equivalent amount of a tetrahydrofuran. A uniform translucent ionomer, aicro emulsion was obtained having a Brookfield viscosity of 20 centipoise at 26bC EXAMPLE 4d PREPARATION OF TRIMETHYLAMINE IONOMER MICROEMULSION Example 4 was repeated with the exception that the MEK was replaced with an equivalent amount of cyclohexanone. A milky, uniform, ionomer microemulsion was obtained.EXAMPLE 4e PREPARATION OF TRIMETHYLAMINE IONOMER MICROEMULSION Example 4 was repeated with the exception that the HER was replaced by an equivalent amount of diethyl ketone. A milky, uniform, ionomer microemulsion was obtained.EXAMPLE 4f PREPARATION OF TRIMETHYLANINE IONOMER MiCROEMULSION Example 4 was repeated with the exception that the butyl Cellosolve was replaced by an equivalent amount of l butoxyethoxy 2 propanol. A uniform, translucent, ionomer micr emulsion was obtained having a Brookfield viscosity of 18 centipoise at 250C.EXAMPLE 4g PREPARATION OF TRIMETHYLAMINE IONOMER MICROEMULSION Example 4 was repeated with the exception that the butyl Cellosolve was replaced by an equivalent amount of n butanol. A uniform, translucent, ionemer microemulsion was obtained having a Brookfield viscosity of 16 centipoise at 250C. EXAMPLE 4h PREPARATION OF TRIMETHYLAMINE IONOMER MICROEMULSION Example 4 was repeated with the exception that the butyl Cellosolve was replaced. by an equivalent amount of ethoxy triglycol. A uniform, milky ionomer microemulsion was obtained having a Brookfieid viscosity of 21 centipoise at 26 C. EXAMPLE 4i PREPARATION Or TRIMETHYLAMINE MONOMER MICROEMULSION Example 4 was repeated with the exception that the butyl Cellosolve was replaced by an equivalent amount of butyl Carbitol a tradename of Union CarbideCorporation for the monobutyl ether of ethylene glycol .A uniform, slightly translucent, ionomer, microemulsion was obtained having a Brookfield viscosity of 16 centipoise at 23.50C. and a pH of 7.4.EXAMPLE 4j PREPARATION OF TRIMETHYLAMINE IONOMER MICROEMULSION Example 4 was repeated with the exception that the butyl Cellosolve was replaced by an equivalent amount of Propasol Solvent A a tradename of UnionCarbide Corporation for l propoxy ethoxy 2 ethanol . A uniform. slightly translucent, ionomer microemulsion was obtained having a Brookfield viscosity of 18 centipoise at 25 C. and a pH of 7.55. EXAMPLE 4k PREPARATION OF IRIMETHYLAMINE IONOMER MICROEMULSION Example 4 was repeated with the exception that the butyl Cellosolve was replaced with an equivalent amount of glycidol 2,3 epoxy l propanol . A uniform milky ionomer microemulsion was obtained having aBrookfield viscosity of 21 centipoise at 26 C.EXAMPLE 5 PREPARATION OF SODIUM IONOMER HICROEMULSION The procedure used in Example 1 was repeated with the exception that the co solvent employed was butyl Carbitol tradenark of Union Carbide Corporation for the nonoburyl ether of diethylene glycol instead of butyl Cellosolve. A uniform, translucent ionomer microemulsion was obtained, which had a Brookfield viscosity of 16.8 centipoise at 23.50C. and a pH of 7.4EXAMPLE 6 PREPARATION OF SODIUM IONOMER MICROEMULSION Example 1 was repeated with the exception that the co solvent was Propasol Solvent P tradename of Union Carbide Corporation for C4HaOCH2CH CH3 OH , instead of butyl Cellosolve.A uniform, translucent microenulsion was obtained which had a Brookfield viscosity of 20 centipoise at ambient temperatures. EXAMPLE 7 PREPARATION OF A 2 AMINO 2 METHYL 1,3 PROPANEDIOL IONOMER MICROEMULSION The procedure described in Example 1 was repeated with the exception that 2.1 g. of 2 amino 2 methyl l,3 propanediol was used in place of the sodium hydroxide. A uniform, translucent emulsion was obtained.The microemulsion had a Brookfield viscosity of 24 centipoise and a pH of 7.4 at ambient temperatures.EXAMPLE 8 PREPARATION OF SODIUM IONOMER MICROEMULSION The procedure described in Example 2 was used with the exception that Bakelite VMCC vinyl resin a terpolymer containing 832 vinyl chloride, 16 vinyl acetate and 1 maleic acid copolymerized therein was used in place of the VMCA vinyl resin. A uniform, translucent microemulsion was obtained having a Brookfield viscosity of 20 centipoise at ambient temperatures. The microemulsions described in Examples 1 8 can be deposited on various substrates and evaporated to provide continuous coatings thereon. In the case ofExamples 1, 5, 6 and 8 the coatings are continuous films of sodium ionomer. In the case of Examples 2, 3, 4, 7 and 8, the coatings are continuous films of terpolymers containing free carboxyl groups rather than ionomers.EXAMPLE 9 PREPARATION OF MIXED TRIMETHYLAMINE IONOMER MICROEMULSION To a varnish composed of 37.33 g. of BakeliteVMCA vinyl resin 18.67 g. of Bakelite VEPR vinyl resin a terpolymer containing 80 vinyl chloride, 11 of vinyl acetate and 9 glycidyl methacrylate copolymerized therein having a number average molecular weight of about 8370 , 65.3 g. of butyl Cellosolve and 65.3 g. of MEK was added slowly an aqueous solution containing 3.73 g.of trimethylamine as a 25 solution in methanol and 258 g. of water. A uniform milky microemulsion was obtained. A 400 g. portion of this microemulsion was stripped under vacuum at 45 C. to an microemulsion weighing 190 g., corresponding to a resin solids content of 26.37.. The stripped microemulsion had a Brookfield viscosity of 22.4 centipoise at 25iC and a pH of 6.85. EXAMPLE 10 EVALUATION OF MICROEMULSTON FROM EXAMPLE 9 Tne stripped microemulsion prepared in Example 9 was coated on various metallic substrates used in the industry for fabricating 2 piece cans. The microemulsion showed excellent wetting characteristics, good thermal stability during baking. good blush resistance, and smooth, glossy finishes. The type of substrate used, baking conditions and test results are shown in Table I with an epoxy resin control. TABLE I CROSS EATCHSUBSTRATE BEKE CYCLE BLUSH ADHESIVE FAILURE, American Can Co, 4 min. at Very a 365 F, 185 C. Slight 0Budium coated steel body can blanksContinental Can Co.Budium a coated 4 min. at Very tin free steel body 365 F,185 C. Slight 0 can blanksAlcoa 5182 4 min. at c 350 F 177 C Moderate 0 cleaned onlyAlcoa 5182 4 min. at converted d and 350 F, 177 C. None 0 cleaned c Electrically Coated 4 min. atTin Plate e 350 F, 177 C. None 0American Can Co. 4 min. atE 81 Epoxy r 320 F, 160 C. None 100 coated steel body can blanksFOOTNOTES FOR TABLE I a Budiun is a Trademark of E.I. duPont de Nemours for a polybutadiene coating used on can liners. FOOTROTES FOR TABLE I CON T b Alcoa 5182 is an aluminum magnesium alloy sold by the Aluminum Co. of America. c Cleaned with detergent to remove surface oil. d Surface after cleaning converted to amorphous coating, such as, phosphate chromate, or the like. e Steel body blanks for cans coated with tin and abbreviated as ETP. f E 81 epoxy is a urca forraldehyde resin bisphenol A solid epoxy resin formulation In contrast to the above results except for E 81 epoxy coated steel, emulsions of the same terpolymers containing ionic or non ionic surfactants as emulsion stabilizers wnet coated onto the same substrates in the same runner showed severe blush and or adhesion failure. EXAMPLE 11 PREPARATION OF MIXED TRIMETHYLAMINE IONOMER MICROEMULSION A stripped microemalsion of Bakelite VMCA and VERR was prepared as in Example 9 with the exception that the relative amounts vinyl resin used changed as shown in the following formulations INITLAL MICROEMULSION VXCA 33.6 g. VERR 22.4 g. Butyl Cellosolve 65.3 g. MEK 65.3 g. Trimethylamine 25 solution in methanol 3.36 g. Water 258 g. STRIPPED EMULSION VMCA VERR 3 2 28.7 Organic Components 24.37. Water The stripped microemulsion was uniform and had a Brookfield viscosity of 33.6 centipoise at 24.5C. EXAMPLE 12 EVALUATION OF XICROEMULSION FROM EXAMPLE 11 The stripped vinyl resin microemulsion prepared in Example 11 was applied on typical substrates for fabricating 2 piece cans. The levels of performance of the resulting can coatings were compared with those obtained by the application of the same vinyl resins from organic solvents. The results are delineated in TablesII and III respectively. TABLE II CROSS HATCH ADHESIVESUBSTRATE BAKE CYCLE BLUSH FAILURE.American Can Co., 4 min atBudium coated 320 F,160 C. None 0 steel body blanks for canContinental Can Co. 4 min. atBudium coated tin 320 F,160 C. None 0 free steel body blanks for cansAlcoa 5182 4 min. at cleaned only 350 F,170 C. Moderate 0Alcoa 5182 4 min. at converted and 350 F,170 C. None 0 cleanedElectrically 4 min. at coated tin plate 350 F,170 C. None 0 ETP American Can Co. 4 min. at coated with E 81 320 F,160 C. None 100Epoxy coated steel body can blanks TABLE III CROSS HATCHSUBSTRATE BAKE CYCLE BLUSH ADHESIVE FAILUER, American Can Co. Budium coated 4 min. at steel can 320 F,160 C. None 0 blanksContinental 4 in. atCan Co. 320 F.160 C. None 40Budium coated steel can blanksAlcoa 5182 4 min. atCleaned Only 350 F,177 C. Slight to 0 ModerateAlcoa 5182Converted and 4 min. atCleaned 350 F,177 C. None 0ElectricallyCoated Tin 4 min, atPlate ETP 350 F,177 C. None 0 1 The vinyl resins were applied from solutions in 1 1 butyl Cellosolve MEK mixture. EXAMPLE 13 PREPARATION OF AMMONIUM IONOMER MICROEMULSION To an aqueous solution containing 65.3 g. of butylCeilosolve, 65.3 g. of MEK, 2.33 g. of ammonium hydroxide 58Z and 258 g. of water was added 56 g.of solid Bakelite VMCA vinyl resin with agitation. The resin was converted immediately into a uniform translucent microemulsion. After standing for one day at room tem perature, the microemulsion exhibited a Brookfield viscosity of 59.2 centipoise and a pH of 8.8. EXAMPLE 14 PREPARATION OF TRTMETHYLAMINE TONOMER MICROEMULSION CONTAINING EPOXY RESIN To a varnish composed of 2.8 g. of ERL 2774 a liquid epoxy resin derived from bisphenol A and epichlorohydrin having an epoxy equivalent of 185 200, 56 g. of Bakelite N CA vinyl resin, 52.2 g. of ethylCellosolve and 78.4 g. of MEr, there was added with vigorous stirring an aqueous solution containing 3.92 g. of trimethylamine 25 solution in methanol and 258 g. of water. The mixing was carried out in aWaring Blender for 10 minutes. A milky, uniform microemulsion was obtained. This microemulsion when applied to various substrates and dried produced a protective coating.This demonstrates a variation of the invention where a thermosetting resin can be added to the microemulsion to provide a highly crosslinked coating.EXAMPLE 15 PREPARATION OF TRIMETHYLAMINE IONOMER MICROEMULSION CONTAINING COAL TAR FILLER To a mixture of 28 g. of Bakelite VMCC vinyl resin, 28 g. of Koppers Co. refined pitch K 374 a coal tar , 65.3 g. of MEK, was added with vigorous stirring, and aqueous solution containing 258 g. of water and 5.6 g. of a 25 trimethylamine solution in methanol A fine uniform microemulsion was obtained which when deposited on various substrates and dried provides a protective coating.EXAMPLE 16 PREPARATION OF AMMONIUM IONOMER MICROEXULSION To a varnish composed of 33.6 g. of vinyl resin VMCA, 22.4 g. of Bakelite VROH vinyl resin a ter polymer containing 80 vinyl chloride, 5 vinyl acetate and 15 hydroxypropyl acrylate copolymerized therein , 65.3 g. of butyl Cellosolve and 65.3 g. of MEK was added with vigorous stirring an aqueous solution containing 258 g. of water and 1.4 g. of a 58 ammonium hydroxide solution. A uniform milky microemulsion was obtained. After standing at room temperature for 48 hours, the microemulsion had a Brookfield viscosity of 17.6 centipoise and a pH of 8.45. This microemulsion when applied to various substrates and dried affords a protective coating.EXAMPLE 17 PREPARATION OF AMMONIUM IONOMER MICROEMULSION To a varnish composed of 56 g. of BakeliteVMCA vinyl resin, 52.5 g. of ethyl Cellosolve, and 78.4 g. of MEK, was added with vigorous stirring, an aqueous solution containing 2.33 g. of a 58 ammonium hydroxide solution and 258 g. of water. The microemulsion obtained had a solids content of 12.5I. It was stripped under vacuum at 450C until the solids content reached 27.52. A white, uniform microemulsion was obtained having aBrookfield viscosity of 24 centipoise at 24iC and a pH of 7. After standing at room temperature for one month there was no change in either viscosity or stability.This microemulsion when applied to various substrates and dried provided protective coatings.EXAMPLE 18 PREPARATION OF AMMONIUM IONOMER MICROEMULSION CONTAINING MELAMINE To a varnish composed of 37.33 g. of BakeliteVMCA vinyl resin, 10.67 g. of Bakelite VROH vinyl resin, 10 g. of Cymel 301 a melamine resin sold by AmericanCyanamide Co. , 65.3 g. of butyl Cellosolve and 65.3 g. of MEK was added with vigorous stirring, an aqueous solution containing 258 g. of water and 1.56 g. of a 58 , a noniu hydroxide solution. A white, milky microemulsion was obtained having a Brookfieid viscosity of 17.6 centipoise and a p9 of 8.35 at room temperature. This microemulsion is also susceptible to concentration to a solids content of 29. and 2 Brookfield viscosity of 72 centipoise by stripping under vacuum at 450C., with breaking the emulsion. A 400 g. portion of the original microemulsion was condensed to 178.5 g.of microemulsion which when coated on a set of 32 mil ground steel panels and baked in air oven at 365 F 1850C. for 4 n inutes provided glossy coatins which showed good resistance to rubbing with acetone.EXAMPLE 19 PREPARATION OF AMMONIUM IONOMER MICROEMULSION MIXED WITH HYDROLYZED POLYVINYL ACETATE AND HEXAMETHOXYMETHYLMELAMINE An aqueous solution containing 6 parts by weight of Gelvatol 20 30 85 hydrolyzed polyvinyl acetate sold by Monsanto Co. , 3 parts by weight of Cymel 301 hexamethoxymethylmelamine sold by Cyanamid Co. , 3 parts by weight of ammonium hydroxide 58 and 244 parts of water was mixed thoroughly with a varnish consisting of 60 parts by weight of Bakelite VMCC vinyl resin, 30 parts by weight of Bakelite VERR vinyl resin, 118 parts by weight of MER and 20 parts by weight of butyl Cellosolve. A high speed, high shear blender was used. The resultant microemulsion having a solids content of 21Z was concentrated under vacuum affording a microemulsion containing solids of 401, 55, water, 4 butyl Cellosolve and about 1 ammonium hydroxide. This microemulsion was very utiforn and milky, showed Tyndall scattering had aBrookfield viscosity at 26.50C. of 75 centipoise had a flow time in a No. 4 Ford cup of 15 seconds at 26.5 C., and had a pH of 7.5. The average particle size, determined by electromicroscopy, was below 0.15 microns. These mi croemuls ions were stable on storage at room tet perature for more than 6 months. They provide protective coatings when deposited on suitable substrates and baked. EXAMPLE 20 PREPARATION OF AMMONIUM IONOMER MICROEMULSIONS MIXED WITH HYDROLYZED POLYVINYL ACETATE AND UREA FORMALDEHYDE RESIN Following the procedure described in Example 19 with the exception that an equivalent weight of Beetle60 normally liquid butylated urea formaldehyde resin available from American Cyanamid Co. , was substituted for Cymel 301, a microemulsion was obtained containing total solids of 407. 552 water, 4 butyl Cellosolve and about 1 ammomium hydroxide. This microemulsion was milky and uniform, had a pH of 7.2 and a Brookfield viscosity at 27 DC. of 196 centipoise. This microemulsion provides a protective coating on substrates when deposited thereon and baked. EXAMPLE 21 PREPARATION OF AMMONIUM IONOMER MICROEMULSION MIXED WITH HYDROLYZED POLYVINYL ACETATE AND HEXAMETHOXYETHLMELAMINE Example 19 was repeated with the exception that 1.38 parts by weight of a 17 1 mixture of MER butyl Cellosolve was used The resultant microemulsion contained 41 solids, 56 water, 2 butyl Cellosolve and about 12 ammonium hydroxide. The microemulsion hat a Brookfield viscosity at 28 DC. of 500 centipoise and a pH of 7.25.It provides protective coatings on substrates after baking.EXAMPLE 22 PREPARATION OF AMMONIUM IONOMER MICROEMULSION MIXED WITH HYDROLYZED POLYVINYL ACETATE AND HE A1ETH OXYMETlYLMELAMI NE Example 19 was repeated with the exception that 138 parts by weight of a 9 1 mixture of MEK and butylCellosolve was used The resultant microemulsion contained 40 solids, 56 water, 3 butyl Cellosolve and about 1Z amnoniun hydroxide. Its pH was 7.4 and Brookfield viscosity 78 centipoise at 290C. It provides protective coatings on substrates after baking.EXAMPLE 23 PREPARATION OF AMMONIUM IONOMER MICROEMULSION MIXED WITH HYDROLYZED POLYVINYL ACETATE AND UREA FORMALDEHYDE RESIN Example 19 was repeated with the exception that 138 parts by weight of an 18 1 weight ratio of MEK to butyl Cellosolve was used and an equivalent weight ofBeetle 60 was substituted for the Cymel Ol. The resultant emulsion contained 42 solids, 55Z water, 2Z butyl Cellosolve and about 1 a monium hydroxide. The resultant microemulsion had a pH of 7.3 and a Brookfield viscosity of 188 at 29C. It provides e protective coating for substrates when deposited thereas and baked. EXAMPLE 24 PREPARATION OF AMMONIUM IONOMER MICRO EMULSION MIXED WITH HYDROLYZED POLYVINYL ACETATE AND HEXAMETHOXYMETHYLMELAMINE Example 19 was repeated substituting an equivalent weight of Bakelite VMCA vinyl resin for Bakelite VMCC vinyl resin, Elvanol 51 05G 86Z hydrolyzed polyvinyl acetate available for DuPont , and using 138 parts of a 13 1 ratio of MZK butyl Cellosolve. The resultant microemulsion contained 42 solids, 54 water, 3 butylCellosolve and about 1Z ammonium hydroxide. Its pH was 7.1 and Brookfield viscosity 330 centipoise at room temperature. This microemulsion provides a protective coating for substrates when applied and baked.EXAMPLE 25 PREPARATION OF AMMONIUM IONOMER MICRO EMULSION MIXED WITH HYDROLYZED POLYVINYL ACETATE AND HEXAMETHOXYMETHYLMELAMINE Example 19 was repeated with the exception that an equivalent weight of Bakelite VMCH vinyl resin a terpolymer containing 86 vinyl chloride, 13 vinyl acetate and 1 maleic acid copolymerized therein for Bakelite VMCC vinyl resin. The resultant microemulsion contained 40 solids, 55 water 4 butyl Cellosolve and about 1 ammonium hydroxide. Its pH was 7.8 and Brookfield viscosity 87 centipoise at 260C. This microemulsion provides a protective coating when applied to substrates and baked.EXAMPLE 26 PREPARATION OF AMMONIUM MONOMER MICRO EMULSION FROM SOLID VINYL RESIN A mixture composed of 65.3 g. of each of butylCellosolve and MEK, 2.33 g. of ammonium hydroxide 58 in water and 258 g. of water was thoroughly mixed in a Waring Blender. Then 56 g. of pulverized BakeliteVMCA vinyl resin was introduced into the mixture in theWaring Blender with vigorous agitation. Blending was continued for a total of 10 minutes during which time the temperature of the blend rose to 480C. A translucent, uniform microemulsion was obtained having a Brookfield viscosity of 59 centipoise at 250C. and containing 12.5 total solids.EXAMPLE 27 PREPARATION OF TRIMETHYLAMINE IONOMER MICROEMULSION To a varnish composed of 28 g. of BakeliteVMCA vinyl resin, 65.3 g. of MEK and 2.8 g. of aqueous trimethyl solution 257. in water was added with vigorous stirring, 320.3 g. of an aqueous solution containing 127.6 g. of N methylolacrylamide. A uniform translucent, ionomer microemulsion was obtained. This microemulsion was concentrated under vacuum at 45eC to a vinyl resin content of 18 by weight. The resultant highly uniform microenulsion had a pH of 7.1 and a Brookfield viscosity of 16.8 centipoise at 23.50C. EXAMPL 28 PREPARATION OF 2 AMINOETHANOL IONOMER MICROEMULSION The procedure described in Example 1 was repeated with the exception that the 0.7725 g. of sodium hydroxide was replaced by 0.75 g. of 2 aminoethanol and the Bakelite VMCA vinyl resin was replaced with an equivalent amount of a 3.2 weight ratio mixture ofBakelite VMCA vinyl resin Bakelite VERR vinyl resin. A uniform, milky, ionomer microemulsion was obtained having a Brookfield viscosity of 19 centipoise at 250C.EXAMPLE 29 PREPARATION OF N,N DIMETHYLETHANOLAMINE IONOMER MICROEMULSION To a varnish composed of 33.6 g. of BakeliteVMCA vinyl resin, 22.4 g. of Bakelite TRR vinyl resin, 97.95 g. of MEK, 24.50 g. of buty Cellosolve and 8.17 g.of ethyl Cellosolve was added with vigorous stirring, 259.3 g. of an aqueous solution containing 1.25 g. of N,N dimethylethanolamine. A uniform, milky, ionomer microemulsion was obtained. This was concentrated under vacuum at 45 C. yielding a uniform, microemulsion containing 30 total solids having a Brookfield viscosity of 28 centipoise at 25 C. EXAMPLE 30 PREPARATION OF TRIETHYLAMINE IONOMER MICROEMULSION To a varnish composed of 78.36 g. of BakeliteVMCA vinyl resin 52.24 g. of Bakelite NERR vinyl resin, 32.85 g. of butyl Cellosolve and 97.75 g. of MEK. was added with vigorous stirring 261.7 g. of an aqueous solution containing 3.7 g. of triethylamine. A uniform, milky, ionomer microemulsion was obtained which was concentrated under vacuum to yield a microemulsion containing 43.7 total solids and having a Brookfield viscosity of 71.2 centipoise at 230C. EXAMPLE 31 PREPARATION OF N METHYL MORPHOLINE IONOMER MICROEMULSION To a varnish composed of 44.79 g. of BakeliteVMCA vinyl resin, 29.86 g. of Bakelite VERR vinyl resin, 97.95 g. of MEK, 24.5 g. of butyl Cellosolve, and 8.17 g. of methyl Cellosolve, was added with vigorous stirring, 259.99 g. of an aqueous solution containing 1.9 g. ofN methyl morpholine. A uniform, milky ionomer microemulsion was obtained which was concentrated under vacuum to yield 2 microemulsion containing 35.7 total solids and having a Brookfield viscosity of 156 centipoise at 230C.EXAMPLE 32 PREPARATION OF TRIMETHYLAMINE IONOMER MICROEMULSION CONTAINING HYDROXYL MODIFIED EPOXY RESIN To a varnish composed of 87.07 g. of Bakelite CA vinyl resin, 32.65 g. of ethyl Cellosolve and 97.95 g. of MEK was added with vigorous stirring an aqueous solution containing 8.7 g. of trimethylamine 251 solution in water , 24 g. of LSU 494 a water dilutable hydroxyl modified epoxy resin having an epoxy value of 0.013 and an hydroxyl value of 0.30 equivalents g.sold by Ciba Geigy Co. , 5 g. of Cymel 301 and 258 g.of water. A uniform, slightly translucent ionomermicroemulsion was obtained. This microemulsion was concentrated under vacuum at 460C. to yield a microemulsion of the following composition Vinyl resin 36 LSU 494 9 Cymel 301 2 Solvents 8 Water 45Z The concentrated icroemulsion was highly uniform with a Brookfield viscosity of 88 centipoise at 230C. and a pH of 6.85. Aft . a storage period of 5 months the microemulsion was still stable. It was applied to three metallic substrates normally used for fabricating 2piece cans, viz., Aluminum A 376 Alcoa 5182 cleaned only . Aluminum A 272 Alcoa 5182 conversion coated and cleaned and ETP.Application conditions used to form coatings on these substrates are presented in Table IV together with blush and adhesion test results of the resultant coatings. TABLE IV CROSS HATCH ADHESIVESUBSTRATE BAKE CYCLE BLUSH FAILURE,Aluminum A 376 4 min. at 177 C. None 0 2 min. at 196 C. None 0 Aluminum A 272 4 min at 177 C. None 0 2 min. at 196 C. None 0 ETP 4 min. at 177 C. None 0 2 min. at 1960C. Slight EXAMPLE 33 PREPARATION OF TRIMETHYLAMINE MONOMER MICROEMULSION CONTAINING HYDROXYL MODIFIED EPOXY RESIN Example 33 was repeated with the exception that the 5 g. of Cymel 301 was replaced with 5 g. ofCymel 303 a hexamethoxymethylmelamine produced byAmerican Cyanamid Co. . A uniform slightly translucent ionomer microemulsion was obtained.This was stripped under vacuum at 460C. to yield a microemulsion having a total solids content of 47.2 and a Brookfield viscosisty of 90.4 centipoise at 26 C. EXAMPLE 34 PREPARATION OF TRIMETHYLAMINE IONOMER MICROEMULSION CONTAINING HYDROXYL MODIFIED EPOXF RESIN Example 33 was repeated with the exception that the 5 g. of Cymel 301 was replaced .y 5 g. ofCymel 350 a melamine resin sold by American Cyanamid Co. . A uniform, slightly translucent ionomer microemulsion was obtained. This was concentrated under vacuum at 45 C. to yield a microemulsion having a total solids content of 41.5, a Brookfield viscosity of 39.2 centipoise at 26.50C. and a pH of 7.05EXAMPLE 35 PREPARATION OF AMMONIUM IONOMER MICRO EMULSION CONTAINING HYDROXYL MDDIFIED EPOXY RESIN To a varnish composed of 87.07 g. of BakeliteVMCC vinyl resir a terpolymer containing 83 vinyl chloride, 16 vinyl acetate and 1X maleic acid copolymerized therein having e number average molecular weight of 14,800 , 36.65 g. of ethyl Cellosolve and 97.95 g.of MEK, was added with vigorous stirring an aqueous solution containing 3.63 g. of ammonium hydroxide 58 .19 g. of LSU 494 epoxy resin, 3.5 g. of Beetle 60 urea resin, and 258 g. of water. A unirort, milky ionomer microemulsion was obtained. This was stripped under vacuum at 470C. to yield a microemulsion having a total solids content of 45 and a Brookfield vis osity of 36 centipoise at 26 C. EXAMPLE 36 PREPARATION Or AMMONIUM TONOMEP MICRO EMULSION MIXED WITH HYDROLYZED POLYVINYL ACETATE Example 19 was repeated with the exception that the mixed vinyl resins were replaced with 90 g. ofBakelite VMCC vinyl resin and the Cymel 301 resin was eliminated from the formulation A uniform, milky, ionomer microemulsion was obtained. This was concentrated under vacuum to yield a microemulsion having a total solids content of 40 and Brookfield viscosity of 170 centipoise at 240C. A portion of the stripped emulsion was mixed thoroughly with 31 parts of l butoxyethoxy 2 propanol per hundred parts of vinyl resin. The resultant microemulsion was uniform and exhibited a Brookfield viscosity of 252 centipoise and a No. 4 Ford cup, viscosity of 27 seconds at 24 C This microemulsion was used to coat subs crates with P draw down rod. The substrates were window glass plates, 25 mil aluminum Q panels sold by the Q panel Co. and 10 mil cold rolled steel panels smooth finish. After drying overnight at room temperature, clear, coherent coatings were obtained on all of these substrates. EXAMPLE 37 PREPARATION OF AMMONIUM MONOMER MICROEMULSION MIXED WITH HYDROLYZED POLENINYL ACETATE Example 36 was repeated with the exception that the Gelvatol 20 30 was replaced with Gelvatol 20 90.A uniform, milky, ionomer microemulsion was obtained.This was stripped under vacuum at 45 C. to yield a microemulsion having a total solids content of 29Z and aBrookfield viscosity of 86 centipoise at 26 C EXAMPLE 38 PREPARATION OF AMMONIL M IONOMZR MICRO EMULSION MIXED WITH HYDROLYZED POLYVINYL ACETATE Example 19 was repeated with the exception that the Bakelite VMCC vinyl resin was replaced by an equal amount of Bakelite VMCA vinyl resin and theCymel 301 was replaced by a equal amount of Beetle 60.A uniform milky ionomer microemuision was obtained.Upon vacuum stripping at 470C., a microemulsion having a total solids content of 41 and Brookfield viscosity of 3064 centipoise at 23 C. was obtained. This microemulsion can be diluted with water without breaking down. This was demonstrated by the data shown below GREYS OF WATER TOTAL BROOKFIELD OBSERVATIONADDED TO 135 g. SOLIDS VISCOSITY OFOF MICROEMULSION BY CENTIPOISE MICROEMULSION WEIGHT 41 3064 uniform 23.1 35 704 49 5 30 232 86 4 25 72EXAMPLE 39 PREPARATION OF AMMONIUM IONOMER MICROEMULSION To an aqueous solution containing 244 g. of water, 6 g. of Gelvatol 20 90, 3 g. of Beetle 60 and 3 g.of ammonium hydroxide 58Z was added with vigorous stirring, a varnish composed of 60 g. Bakelite VMCC vinyl resin, 30 g. of Bakelite VERR vinyl resin, 117.5 g. of MEK and 19.5 g. of butyl Cellosolve. A uniform, milky, ionomer microemulsion was obtained. This was concentrated under vacuum to yield a microemulsion having a total solids content of 40Z and a Brookfield viscosity of 908 centipoise at 24 C.EXAMPLE 40 EVALUATION OF AMMONIUM IONOMER MICRO EMULSION MIXED WITH HYDROLYZED POLYVINYL ACETATE The concentrated microemulsion prepared inExample 19 was applied on typical substrates for fabricating 2 piece cans. The performance data of the resultant can coatings in blush resistance and wet adhesion are shown in Table V. TABLE V CROSS HATCH ADHESIONSUBSTRATE BAKE CYCLE BLUSH FAILURE Continental Can 4 min. atCo. Budium 173 C. None 0 coated tin free 4 min. at steel can blank 185 C. None 0 American Can Co. 4 min. atBudium coated 173 C. None 0 steel can blanks 4 min. at 185 C. None 0 Aluminum A 272 4 min. at 1770C. None 07. 2 min. at 195 C. None 0 Aluminum A 376 4 min. at 177 C. None 0 2 min. at 195 C. None 0 ETP 4 min. at 1770C. None 0 2 min. at 195 C. None 0 EXAMPLE 41 PREPARATION OF AMMONIUM IONOMER HICRO EMULSION CONTAINING CARBOWAX 1000 To a varnish composed of 87.87 g. of BakeliteVMCA vinyl resin, 32.65 g. of ethyl Cellosolve, and 97.95 g. of MEK, was added with vigorous stirring an aqueous solution containing 258 g. of water. 3.62 g. of ammonium hydroxide 58 , 24 g. of Carbowax polyethylene glycol1000 a tradename for Union Carbide Corporation polyethylene glycol having a formula molecular weight range of 950 1050 , and 5 g. of Beetle 60. A uniform, milky ionomer microemulsion was obtained.This was stripped under vacuum to yield a microemulsion having a total solids content of 45.6Z and.a Brookfield viscosity of 112 centipoise at 250C.EXAMPLE 42 PREPARATION OF TRIMETHYLAMINE IONOMER MICROEMULSION CONTAINING CARBOWAX 1000 AND CYMEL 301 To a varnish composed of 87.07 g. of BakeliteVMCA vinyl resin, 32.65 g. of ethyl Cellosolve and 97.95 g. of MEK was added with vigorous stirring an aqueous solution containing 258 g. of water and 8.7 g.of trimethylamine. A uniform, milky ionomer microemulsion was obtained. This was concentrated under vacuum to yield e microemulsion having a Brookfield viscosity of 176 centipoise at 25.50C. One hundred grams of the above described microemulsion was mixed with 10 g. of Carbowax polyethylene glycol 6000 and 2 g. of Cymel 301 yielding a microemulsion having a rookfield viscosity of 832 centipoise at 25.5 C. This microemulsion was deposited on an aluminum h 272 panel and baked at 177 C. for 4 minutes. A clear, coherent coating was produced on the panel.EXAMPLE 43 PREPARATION OF TRIMETHYLAMINE IONOMER MICROEMULSION CONTAINING CELLOSIZE AND CYMEL 301 The blending procedure described in Example 43 was repeated with the exception that the aqueous solution was replaced by one containing 239 of water, 20 g. of 5 solution of Cellosize QP 40 in water Cellosize is a tradename of Union Carbide Corporation, for hydroxyethylcellulose 2 g. of Cymel 301, and 8.7 g. of a solution of trimethylamine 257. in water . A uniform, milky ionomer microemulsion was obtained. This was stripped under vacuum to yield a microemulsion having a total solids content of 36.7Z and a Brookfield viscosity of 656 centipoise.EXAMPLE 44 PREPARATION OF TRIMETHYLAMINE IONOMER MICROEMULSION CONTAINING CELLOSIZE AND CYMEL 301 Example 43 was repeated with the exception that the Ceilosize QP 40 was replaced with an equal amount of QP 300. The stripped microemulsion was uniform and had a total solids content of 37 and aBrookfield viscosity of 352 centipoise at 250C.EXAMPLE 45 PREPARATION OF AMMONIUM IONOMER MICRO EMULSION CONTAINING CELLOSIZE AND CYMEL 301 To a varnish composed of 60 g. of BakeliteVMCC vinyl resin, 30 g. of Bakelite VERR vinyl resin, 85.25 g. of MEK and 45.35 g. of butyl Cellosolve, was added with vigorous stirring an aqueous solution containing 249 g. of water, 10 g. of a 5 Cellosize QP 15,000 solution in water, 2 g. of Cymel 301, and 2.5 g. of aqueous ammonium hydroxide 58 . A uniform, milky ionomer m.icroemulsion was obtained. This was stripped under vacuum to yield a microemulsion having a total solids content of 38 and a Brookfield viscosity of 294 centipoise at 270C.EXAMPLE 46 ELECTRODEPOSITION OF TRIMETHYLANINE IONOMER MICROEMULSION Example 4 was repeated with the exception that only one half of the amounts of Bakelite VMCA vinyl resin and trimethylamine was employed to make the varr.ish and aqueous solution respectively. A uniform, translucent ionomer nicroemulsion was obtained. This was concentrated under vacuum until the total solids content reached 8.5. The pH of the microemulsion was adjusted to 7.5 by the addition of more trimethyl amine. The microemulsion was then placed in a pyrex glass electrodeposition cell. Pairs of 0.064 inch diameter copper rods were employed as the electrodes which were connected to a 12 volt D.C. battery through a manual switch. With the distance between the electrodes fixed and a constant depth of immersion of the electrodes, a series of the copper rods were exposed to conditions wherein anodic electrodeposition took place. The relation between dry film thickness as a function of time of passage of current is shown in Table VI. Film thickness obtained by simply dipping the rods is also shown. TABLE VI COATING THY CRESS IN MILSTIME IN BY ELECTRO BY DIPPSECONDS DEPOSITION ING 5 0.75 Nil 10 1.25 Nil 20 1.75 Nil 30 2.50 0.25 50 4.0 0.50 The dried coatings obtained either at ambient temperature or by baking at elevated temperatures were coherent and glossy.EXAMPLE 47 PROPERTIES OF DRIED COATINGS FROM IONOMER MICROEMULSION lo a varnish composed of 90 g. of BakeliteVMCC vinyl resin, 117.5 g. of MEK and 19.5 g. of butylCellosolve was added with vigorous stirring an aqueous solution containing 244 g. of water, 6 g. of Gelvatol20 30, 3 g. of Cymel 301, and 2 g. of aqueous ammonium hydroxide 582 . A uniform, milky ionomer microemulsion was obtained which was concentrated under vacuum to yield a microemulsion having 39 total solids and aBrookfield viscosity of 89.6 centipoise at 25C. This was then thinned with 77.7 phr of butyl Cellosolve to yield a microemulsion containing 30 total solids. This microemulsion was applied with a drawdowa rod onto panels of 10 mil steel type D 36 CR steel , aluminum 25 mil Q panel and window glass panels. The coatings were air dried to yield a 1 mil thick, clear, glossy coating on all three substrates.The following coating properties were obtained COATINGPROPERTY ON Al ON STEEL ON GLASSScotch tape adhesion, cross hatched PASS PASS PASSGardner Impact in inch lbs. ASTM 2794 69 Forward 1001 1002Reverse 80 1002 substrate punctured 2substrate severely distortedEXAMPLE 48 PROPERTIES OF DRIED COATINGS FROM IONOMER MICROEMULSIONS A microemulsion prepared as in Example 48 was thinned with 31 phr of butoxyethoxy 2 propanol to yield a uniform ionomer microemulsion having a total solids of 34.6 . This thinned microemulsion was applied with a drawdown rod onto the same three substrates as in Example 47. The coatings were air dried to yield 1 mil thick, clear, glossy coatings on all three substrates. The following coating properties were obtained. COATING PROPERTY ON Al ON STEEL ON GLASS Cross hatched scotch tape adhesion PASS PASS PASS Gardner Impact in inch lbs. ASTM 2794 69 COATING PROPERTY ON Al ON STEEL ON GLASSForward 1001 1002Reverse 80 1002 substrate punctured substrate severely distorted The above described microemulsion was also applied to 2 smooth finished oak panel, 1 4 thick, with a draw down rod. Upon drying a coherent, glossy coating was obtained.EXAMPLE 49 PREPARATION OF AMMONIUM MONOMER MICROEMULSION When a varnish composed of 65 g. of a terpolymer containing 80Z vinyl chloride, 18 styrene and 27. acrylic acid and copolyierized therein, 117.5 g.of MEK, and 19.5 g. of butyl Cellosolve is added with vigorous stirring to an aqueous solution containing 244 g.of water, 6 g. of Gelvatol 20 30, 3 g. of Cymel 301 and 3 g. of aqueous ammonium hydroxide solution 58 , a uniform ionomer microemulsion is obtained. EXAMPLE 50 PREPARATION OF AMMONIUM MONOMER MICROEMULSION When a varnish composed of 65 g. of a ter polymer containing 60 vinyl chloride, 39 vinylidene chloride and 1 acrylic acid copolymerized therein, 117.5 g. of MEK and 19.5 g. of butyl Cellosolve is added with vigorous stirring to an aqueous solution containing 244 g. of water, 6 g. of Gelvatol 20 30, 3 g. of Beetle 65, and 3 g. of aqueous ammonium hydroxide solution 58Z , a uniform, milky ionomer microemulsion is obtained. EXAMPLE 51 PREPARATION OF AMMONIUM MONOMER MICROEMULSION When a varnish composed of 65 g. of a terpolymer containing 60 vinyl chloride, 36 methyl methacrylate and 4 methacrylic acid copolymerized therein, 85 g. of MEK, and 5 g. of butyl Cellosolve is added with vigorous stirring an aqueous solution containing 244 g.of water and 5 g. of an aqueous ammonium hydroxide solution 5E , a uniform, ionomer microemulsion is obtained. EXAMPLE 52 PREPARATION OF TRIMETHYLAMINE MONOMER MICROEMULSION Wner. a varnish composed of 65 g. of a terpolymer containing 80 vinyl chloride, 16 vinyl acetate and 4 5 norbornene 2,3 dicarboxylic acid mono n butyl ester copolymerized therein, 65 g. of butyl Cellosolve, and 65 g. of MEK is added with vigorous stirring to an aqueous solution containing 258 g. of water and 8 g. of an aqueous solution of trimethylamine 255 a uniform, ionomer microemulsion is obtained.EXAMPLE 53 PREPARATION OF TRIMETHYLAMINE IONOMER MICROEMULSION If Example 52 is repeated with the exception that the vinyl resin is replaced with an equivalent amount of a terpolymer containing 80Z vinyl chloride, 17 styrene and 3 p styrenesulfonic acid copolymerized therein, a uniform ionomer microemulsion is obtained.EXAMPLE 54 PREPARATION OF TRIMETHYLAMINE IONOMER MI CROEMULS ION If Example 52 is repeated with the exception that the vinyl resin is replaced by an equivalent amount of a terpolymer containing 80 vinyl chloride, 18 vinyl acetate and 2 fumaric acid copolymerized therein, a uniform ionomer microemulsion is obtained.EXAMPLE 55 STABILITY or SODIUM IONOMER MICROEMULSIONS AT VARYING DEGREE OF NEUTRALIZATION In order to demonstrate the effect of neutralization of the basic acid containing vinyl resin on the stability of the resultant ionomer microemulsions prepared in accordance with this invention, the technique described in the previous examples was used with a vinyl terpolymer containing 43.6 vinyl chloride, 26.9 vinyl acetate and 29.5 acrylic acid copolymerized therein. A mixture of cyclohexanone, HEK and water in a ratio of 2 3 12 by weight was employed together with sufficient of the above described terpolymer to afford a polymer concentration of 1.17 . Neutralization was effected with varying amounts of a O.0968N sodium hydroxide solution in water. The degree of neutralization and the stability of the resultant microemulsion in minutes is delineated in Table VII. TABLE VII STABILITY OF MICROEMULSION VERSUS DEGREE OF NEUTRALIZATION a DEGREE OF NEUTRALIZATION STABILITY IN MINUTES None O 9.4 15 25 19 37 60 47 TABLE VII CON T a DEGREE OF NEUTRALIZATION STABILITY IN MINUTES 59 60 73 100 200 87 100 240 a Time elapsed before phase separation of the microemulsion occurred.EXAMPLE 56 EFFECT OF SOLVENT CO SOLVENT RATIOS ON VINYL CHLORIDE TERPOLYMER TRIMETHYLAMINE MICROEMULSIONS The procedure described in Example 4 was used to prepare a trimethyl ionomer microemulsion ofBakelite VMCA vinyl resin at varying ratios of butylCellosolve to MEK. The total formulation consisted of 12.442 resin, 29 butyl Cellosolve plus MEK, 1.24Z of a 25Z methanolic solution of trimethylamine and 57.32Z water. The quality of the microemulsion at varying ratios of MEK to butyl Cellosolve is demonstrated in Table VIII. Using either the solvent, MEK or the co solvent, butyl Cellosolve alone afforded unsatisfactory results. TABLE VIII MER BUTYL CELLOSOLVEWT.RATIO OUALITY OF MICROEMULSIONButyl Cellosolve only difficult to dissolve and disperse immediate resin separation 0.16 translucent, fairly uniform stable 0.20 0.25 translucent, uniform stable 0.50 1.0 1.36 1.50 1.60 1.88 very slightly translucent, uniform stable 2.0 rilky, uniform and stable 2.3 milky, uniform and less stable 3.0 ,, 4.3 It MEK only immediate resin separation