# Pre mix for forming a self hardening composition, self hardening composition and composite comprising the same, laminate and insulating structure made from the composite.

## Abstract
A self hardening composition may be made by mixing an alkaline earth metal halide, preferably calcium or magne sium chloride or mixture thereof, calcium metasilicate, sodium fluorosilicate, an aluminum silicate clay such as kaolin, sodium silicate and water. A pre mix for use in the formation of such a composition can be made up by omit ting the sodium silicate and water or by incorporating dry sodium silicate with the other ingredients. The self hardening composition formed in accordance with the invention may be used as a bonding composition which will provide insulation against temperature extremes whilst retaining bond strength and avoiding the emission of toxic fumes when sublected to extreme heat or fires. Composite materials may be made up by mixing expand ed aggregate materials and or reinforcing fibers with such self hardening compositions. These composite materials may be employed in the production of laminates by adher ing layers thereof to facing sheets or may be employed as such in the formation of insulating structures by pressing or extruding such composite materials to produce a desired shape.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A pre mix for the formation of a selfihardening composition by the addition to said pre mix of sodium silicate and water comprising an alkaline earth metal halide, calcium metasilicate, sodium fluorosilicate and an aluminum silicate clay e.g. Kaolin . 2. A pre mix as claimed in claim 1, wherein the alkaline earth metal halide is magnesium chloride, calcium chloride or a mixture thereof. 3. A pre mix as claimed in claim 1 our claim 2 mixed with dry sodium silicate. 4. A self hardening composition comprising an alkaline earth metal halide, calcium metasilicate, sodium fluorosilicate, sodium silicate, an aluminum silicate clay and water. 5. A composition as claimed in claim 4 containing 3 5 by weight of the alkaline earth metal halide, 0.5 1.5 by weight of calcium metasilicate, 0.5 1.5 by weight of sodium fluorosilicate, 30 408 by weight of sodium silicate, and 0.02 0.04 by weight of the aluminum silicate clay. 6. A composition as claimed in claim 4 or claim 5, wherein the sodium silicate and at least part of the water is provided in the form of R sodium silicate solution. 7. A composition as claimed in any one of claims 4 to 6, wherein the alkaline earth metal halide is magnesium chloride, calcium chloride or a mixture thereof, preferably CaC12.MgC12. 8. A composition as claimed in any one of claims 4 to 7, wherein the aluminum silicate clay is kaolin. 9. A composition as claimed in any one of claims 4 to 8, wherein the amount of sodium silicate is 35 39 by weight. 10. A composition as claimed in any one of claims 4 to 9, wherein the sodium silicate has a fla2O SiO2 ratio of 1 1.65 3.9. 11. A self hardening composite material comprising an expanded aggregate material and or reinforcing fibers, mixed with from 10 35 by weight of the material of the ingredients of a composition as claimed in any one of claims 4 to 10. 12. A laminate comprising a composite material as claimed in claim 11 hardened and firmly adhered to a facing sheet. 13 An insulating structure which has been made hy pressing or extruding a composite material as claimed in claim 11 to a desired shape and allowing the composite material to harden. 14. Any one of the ingredients as referred to in the definition of a pre mix in any one of claims 1 to 3, of a composition in any one of claims 4 to 10 or of a composite material in claim 11 for use in the formation of such pre mix, composition or composite material or for use in the formation of a laminate as claimed in claim 12 or an insulating structure as claimed in claim 13, said ingredient optionally being associated with instructions for such use. CLAIMS FOR AUSTRIA 1. A method for the preparation of a pre mix suitable for the formation of a self hardening composition by the addition to said pre mix of sodium silicate and water, which method comprises mixing an alkaline earth metal halide, calcium metasilicate, sodium fluorosilicate and an aluminum silicate clay e.g. kaolin . 2. A method as claimed in claim 1, wherein the alkaline earth metal halide is magnesium chloride, calcium chloride or a mixture thereof. 3. A method for the preparation of a pre mix suitable for the formation of a self hardening composition by the addition said pre mix of water, whirs method comprises mixing an alkaline earth metal halide, calcium metasilicate, sodium fluorosilicate, an aluminum silicate clay e.g. kaolin and dry sodium silicate. 4. A method for the preparation of a self hardening composition, which method comprises mixing an alkaline earth metal halide, calcium metasilicate, sodium fluorosilicate, sodium silicate, an aluminum silicate clay and water. 5. A method as claimed in claim 4, wherein the ingredients are mixed in proportions so as to provide in the xesulting self hardening composition 3 5 by weight of the alkaline earth metal halide, 0t5 1,58 by weight of calcium metasilicate, 0,5 1.5 by weight of sodium fluorosilicate, 30 40 by weight of sodium silicate, and 0.02 0.04 by. weight of the aluminum silicate clay. 6. A method as claimed in claim 4 or claim 5, wherein the sodium silicate and at least part of the water in the resulting composition are provided by mixing the other ingredients with a sodium silicate solution. 7. A method as claimed in any one of claims 4 to 6, wherein the alkaline earth metal halide is magnesium chloride, calcium chloride or a mixture thereof, preferably CaCl2.NgCl2. 8. A method as claimed in any one of claims 4 to 7, wherein the aluminum silicate clay is kaolin. 9. A method as claimed in any one of claims 4 to 8, wherein the amount of sodium silicate employed is 35 398 by weight of the composition. 10. A method as claimed in any one of claims 4 to 9, wherein the sodium silicate employer mas a Na20 SiO2 ratio of 1 1.65 3.9. 11. A method for preparing a self hardening composite, which method compies mixing an expanded aggregate material and or reinforcing fibers with from 10 35 by wei.ght of the overall composite of the composition ingredients used in a method as claimed in any one of claims 4 to 10. 12. A laminated product comprising a composite layer firmly adhered to a facing sheet, the composite layer having been formed by hardening a composite prepared by a method as claimed in claim 11. 13. A insulating structure which has been produced by pressing or extruding a composite prepared by a method as claimed in claim 11 to a desired shape and allowing the pressed or extruded composite to harden.

## Description
PRE MIX FOR FORMING A SELF HARDENING COMPOSITION, SELF HARDENItiG COMPOSITION AND COMPOSITE COMPRISING THE SAME, INNATE AND INSULATING STRUCTURE t9DE FROM Hr COMPOSITE AND INGREDIENT FOR USE IN ANY OF THE AFORESAID This invention relates to a pre mix composition which, upon admixture with sodium silicate and water, can produce a self hardening composition hawing a number of advantageous features. Many adhesives and bonding compounds in present use are derived from petro chemical or organic sources. These materials can emit toxic products or ignite in a fire, often resulting in ignition or degradation of particles bonded therewith to form further toxic products, exposure to which can be fatal in confined spaces. Other bonding compounds adapted for compositions which will withstand extreme temperatures are kiln dried, fired or otherwise subjected to external heating to achieve satisfactory bonding, e.g., fired bricks, tiles, etc. Utilising the present invention, a compositlon for insulating materials may be made bar cold mixing various components to make a bonding compound that can be intermixed with perticulate fillers such as expanded perlite, fiber glass, mineral fibers orwools or diatomite to form a paste. The paste can be molded, pressed or otherwise formed into structured products using conventional machines.The bonded products formed therefrom insulate against extremes of temperature but lose no bond strength and emit no toxic fumes when subjected to extreme heat or fires. According to the present invention there is provided a pre mix for the formation of a self hardening composition by the addition to said pre mix of sodium silicate and water comprising an alkaline earth metal halide, calcium metasilicate, sodium fluorosilicate and an aluminum silicate clay e.g. kaolin . Another pre mix of the invention may comprise, in addition to previously mentioned ingredients, dry sodium silicate. The invention further provides a self hardening composition comprising an alkaline earth metal halide, calcium metasilicate, sodium fluorosilicate, sodium silicate, an aluminum silicate clay and water. The alkaline earth metal halide is preferably a chloride see later . In a preferred compositional aspect, this invention provides a self hardening comDosition consisting of 3 55 by weight of an alkaline earth metal chloride, 0.5 1.5 by weight of calcium metasilicate, 0.5 1.5 by weight of sodium fluorosilicate, 30 40 by weight of sodium silicate, 0.02 0.04 by weight of an aluminum silicate clay, and water. A further aspen of this invention is a selfhardening composite material comprising 10 35 by weight the ingredients of the foregoing self hardening compositiont adr mixed with. an expanded agreggate material andjor reinforcing fibers. The present invention is ideally suited to the fire proofing of building or other structures either by providing an integral part of such structures or by providing an insulating coating. The expression alkaline earth metal chloride is used herein and means MgC12 or CaC12 or a mixture thereof, preferably a 1 1 mixture thereof represented by the formula CaCl2.MgCl2. Calcium metasilicate is represented by the formulaCaSio3, whether in the dL pseudowollastonitel or wollastonite form. Sodium fluorosilicate, silicofluoride or hexafluorosilicate is represcnted by the formula Ma2SiF6. The term aluminum silicate clay as used herein includes non expanding clays, of which kaol4nite, halloysite, illite and attapulgite are exemplary. However, kaolin is preferred. Sodium silicate as used in the specification and claims is generally represented by the formula Na2SiO3 and is also known as water glass a concentrated solution or sodium metasilicate. Sodium silicate includes products expressed as having various ratios of Na20 SiO2. Typically, in the practice of this invention, sodium silicate is used in the form of a solution in which the SiO2 Na2O molar ratio is 1.65 3.9. A preferred sodium silicate has a specific gravity of 1.387 at 499.3 per litre. Solutions of sodium silicate used in the practice of this invention usually contain about 30 40 of solids, i.e., solutions of above about 340 Baume will be used. Most preferably, the bonding compositions of this invention will contain 35 39 by weight of sodium silicates.Therefore, sodium silicate solutions above about 390 Baume are usually used. The self hardening compositi9ns of this invention may be made by combining the solid ingredients, for example, with paddles or mechanically opposed rotating arms. To this pre mix can be added sodium silicate solution or dry sodium silicate to produce another type of pre mix . Mixing is continued until the product has an acceptable viscosity, preferably of the order of 26 centipoise at 68.40F. If the bonding composition is being used without fillers, the material is fabricated into the desired shrine and permitted to set under ambient conditions. The time required for setting is dependent upon ambient temperature and open time required. Rule of thumb is 30 minutes at 600F ambient at which point the product has the following characteristics Conductivity is subject to fillers used and end product needs.As a rough guide 25mm at 18 lb ft3 will come out at 0.04 0.06 W m deg. C. or better . Low temperatures ranges down to minus 1000C. or better dependent upon known prior specifics.The bonded product has a hard rigid set and face Natural colour is pearl white. Crushing strength..,. Cwithout any other addictions apart from perlite and bonding compoundL zs 40kg in 2. At the end of 1 3 hours curing is complete, as indicated by surface hardness. Because the compositions of the invention are selfhardening, it will be understood that the ingredients are mixed just prior to use. If desired, the solid ingredients can be premixed and shipped dry. At the point of use, the solid ingredients can then be combined with sodium silicate solution. It will be appreciated that the use of the selfharding compositions of the invention per se in forming insulating structures or laminated materials including facing sheets is envisaged. However, so called composite materials are highly preferred for such uses. Accordingly, in preferred embodiments, 10 35 by weight czf the present bonding self hardening composition iv extended with an expanded aggregate material and or reinforcing fiber material to provide fire retardant light weight air curable composites. Expanded aggregate material as used herein includes, but is not limited to, cellular perlite, vermiculite, cellular glass, expanded slag, cellular diatomite and cellular pumice. However, the foregoing are preferred, most preferably expanded or cellular perlite and cellular diatomite. The expanded aggregate material used in the practice of this invention usually has a particle size of from 150 microns to 4750 microns depending upon the specifications of structured end product requirement However, maternal muesli of 2400 4750 microns is generally preferred. Thc density of the expanded aggregate materials can be from 2h 11 lb ft3 C40 180 kg mê , S although aggregates having densities of 5 11 1b ft 90 180 kg m are preferred.Preferred sieve size of expanded perlite particles is 3000 6000 microns, with particle size expanded running from 3irLTfl to 7mm. Reinforcing fibers include, but are not limited to, organic fibers and fiber glass. Fiber glass is preferred owing to resistance to combustion. Organic fibers include natural fibers such as cellulose and wood fibers and synthetic fibers, e.g., from to 1 inches in length. In the practice of the invention, the filler being bonded may be mixed with the cold self hardening bonding composition to form a paste which may be shied by extrusion or pressing at 7 40 psi or higher pressures to the required shape, and predetermined product strength required. Structured end products with densities of 10 to 39 1b ft may be obtained in this fashion. Addition of inorganic viscosity increasing agents, e.g., Sodium Silicate in solution at S G 1.387 4.864 pounds per U.S. gallon. to the basic bonding compound up to a level of up to 10 by weight will extend curing time. The curing time can be decreased by the addition of up to AZ by weight of inorganic filler, e.g., Kaolin, Diatomaceous Earth,Fine Mica, Vermiculte, Talc etc. to the self hardening composition or composites made therefrom. The process of mixing of the basic self hardening bonding compound and curing the products through stacking and shipping of structured end products is therefore carried out without application of external heat for drying or curing. It will be understood that the composite materials containing the self hardening composition of this invention can, while the composites are in the form of a paste of the required density, be formed, pressed or molded under varying pressures between sheets to form double or single faced laminates. Either facing sheet of the thus formed laminate is of metal, cardboard, plastic, fiber glass, paper or any other material which will adhere to the composite material, which will dry and cure at ambient temperature. Preferred laminates are those wherein the filler is fiberglass and the facing sheet is metal or fiber glass. With respect to the self hardening composition of this invention, the most preferred embodiment is that wherein the alkaline earth metal chloride is Caul2 lzgC12, the aluminum silicate clay is kaolin, the amount of sodium silicate is 35 39t by weight and the molar ratio Na2O SiO2 is 1 1.65 3.9. Of the composites prepared in accordance with the invention, one which is particularly preferred is that wherein the expanded aggregate material is cellular perlite, vermiculite, cellular glass, expanded slag, cellular diatomite or cellular pumice. Aliother particularly preferred composite contains both one of the foregoing types of aggregate and a reinforcing filler selected from fiber glass or mineral fiber Naturally, the present invention embraces methods of making the present pre mix, composition composite or laminate. The invention also provides an insulating structure Cand a method of making the same comprisina a composite of the invention pressed or extruded to the desired shape. Further provided by the invention is any ingredient for any of the above soecified uses i.e. when intended or particularly suitable for such uses, whether associated with instructions or not . In the following Examples, which are to be construed as merely illustrative and not limiting upon the scope of the invention, the temperatures are set forth uncorrected in degrees Celsius unless otherwise indicated, all parts and percentages are by weight. EXA P .LE 1 Preparation of Self Hardening Comoosition The following dry ingredients were mixed together by a rotary mixer by weightMagnesium Calcium Chloride CaC12 MgC12 4Calcium Metasilicate CaSlO3 2Sodium Fluorosilicate 1Kaolin 1 32 To the resulting dry mix was added 93 31 32 by weight of commercial sodium silicate solution 40.50Baume, Na20 SiO2 ratio 1 1.65 3.9. . The mixture was stirred to a viscosity of 26 contiDoise, EXAMPLE 2 8 by weightExpanded Perlite Particles 63 90Bonding Compound of Example 1 10 37 The particles to be bonded were first dry mixed together by mechanically opposed rotating arms and then mixed with the bonding compound in the cold state.The resulting mass was stirred to a paste, which was shaped by application of pressure from 15 38 psi into structural products. ExAMpLE 3 by weightFibers Organic 68 84Diatomite 5 17Bonding Compound of Example 1 23 35 The composite was mixed as in Example 2 and pressed at 17 psi to obtain structural products, which cured at ambient conditions within 1 3 hours to a product having the following characteristics Pearl white coloured rigid board with perlite particles shape clearly visible. Capable to be handled and used and when tapped with the finger, gives a resonant solid sound. EXAMPLE 4 by weightExpanded Perlite Particles 25 56Organic Fibers 32 45Bonding Compound of Example 1 18 29 A composite material was obtained as in Example 2 EX2MPLS 5 by weightExpanded Perlite Particles 60 85Fiber Glass 5 12Bonding Compound of Example 1 10 34 Composite material obtained as in Example 2 had the following characteristics A rigid light weight 17 22 lb ft dry faced core material that had high thermal insulation qualities. Non hygroscopic with free moisture content maximum 0.5 . Appearance pearl white. softening point 9000 1100 C. 1600 2000 F. Fusion point 12800 13500C. 2300 24500F. Products structured from examples 1,2,3,5,6,7, were inert.Some unlaminated ,ore material, made fror example 5, in accordance with the present invention in the form of dry panels with a specific density of 27 lb ft 432 kg m in 1.0 metre lengths as cold mixed formed and cured panels.These panels were used to form a dry board encasement fire protection cover for a structural steel column and was submitted to a time and temperature test curve of British Standard 476 part 8 1972 in the following categories Dry panels encasement at 50mm 2 inches thick with no laminates either side Stability 120 mins. Re load Satisfied Fire resistance 120 mins. Dry panels encasement at 25mm 1 inch thick with no laminates either side Stability 60 mins Re load Satisfied Fire resistance 60 mins Further tests showed that the foregoing panels were completely incombustible and non toxic when submitted to furnace temperatures of 2,000 F. for extended periods and not subject to loss of bond when direct flame in the same temperature range, was applied to any face of the material for extended periods. The foregoing examples relate to a rigid dry formed panel, but by the very nature of complete compounds and aggregates, and by the very low psi pressures required to form a desired end product, it is possible to press and mold to any shape that it is capable to be so produced from existing plant and equipment with a modification being made to the feed, and pressure applied in order to retain the known and natural insulation qualities and geodedic strengths that is found in pre expaned perlite particles of all grade sizes. EXAMPLE 6 Composites containing up to 55 of fiber glass see Example 4 had better load bearing characteristics and higher shear strength than those of Example 2. EXAMPLE 7 Composites of the following compositions are prepared as in Example 2 by weightExpanded Perlite Particles Large Grade 63 74Kaolin 4 7Glass Fibers One Inch Long 1 5Bonding Compound of Example 1 10 28 The products were structured as core materials having a nominal density of 15 to 28 lb ft3, and laminated on each face with aluminum foil air laid fiber glass sheeting, etc. EXAMPLE 8 Bonding material was made as in Example 1 from the following by weightMagnesium Chloride 4Calcium Metasilicate 1Sodium Fluorosilicate 1Kaolin 1 32 To this dry mixture was added sodium silicate solution 40 420 Be., the combination mixed to a viscosity of 26 centipoise. Bonding material was formulated with expanded fillers and or fibrous fillers as in Examples 2 7. The behavior of products was similar. The preceding examples can be repeated with similar success by substituting the generically or specifically described reactants and or operating conditions of this invention for those used in the preceding examples. From the foregoing description, one skilled in the art can easily, without departing from the spirit and scope of the Invention, make various changes and modifications of the invention to adapt it to various usages and conditions.