# Water soluble monoazo dyes.

## Abstract
Water soluble monoazo dyes which, in the form of the free acids, have the formula CHEM wherein A represents the residue of a diazo component of the benzene series containing a single sulphonic acid group and optionally one or more other substituents, R 1 represents hydrogen or lower alkyl and each of R 2 and R 3 independently represents hydrogen, optionally substituted alkyl or phenyl, or R 2 and R 3 together with the nitrogen atom to which they are attached form a saturated ring. The dyes are applicable as acid dyes to natural and synthetic polyamide textile materials on which they give fast bright yellow shades.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A water soluble monoazo dye which, in the form of the free acid, has the formula EMI17.1 wherein A represents the residue of a diazo c omponent of the benzene series containing a single r,ulphonic acid group and optionally one or more other substituents, R1 represents hydrogen or lower alkyl and each of R2 and independently represents hydrogen, optionally substituted alkyl or phenyl, or R2 and R3 together with the nitrogen atom to which they are attached form a saturated ring. 2. A water soluble monoazo dye according to claim 1 wherein R is hydrogen or methyl. 3. A water soluble monoazo dye according to claim 1 or claim 2 wherein each of R2 and R3,independently is hydrogen or lower alkyl. 4. A water soluble monoazo dye according to any one of the preceding claims wherein A is a sulphophenyl radical containing either one or two chlorine substituents. 5. A water soluble monoazo dye according to claim 4 wherein A is a radical of the formulaEMI17.2 6. A water soluble monoazo dye according to claim 5 having the formula EMI18.1 7. A method for the preparation of water soluble monoazo dye as defined in claim 1 which comprises diazotising a monosurphenated optionally substituted aniline and coupling the diazo compound so obtained with a diaminopyrimidine of the formula EMI18.2 wherein R1, R2 and R have the meanings given in claim 1. 8. A process for the coloration of poly3mide textile materials which comprises applying thereto a water soluble monoazo dye as defined in claim 1.

## Description
TITLEWATER SOLUBLE MONOAZO DYES This invention relates to water soluble monoazo dyes and their application to polyamide textile materials. According to the invention, there are provided water soluble monoazo dyes which, in the form of the free acids, have the formula EMI2.1 wherein A represents the residue of a diazo component of the benzene series aontaining a single sulphonic acid group and optionally one or more other substituents, R1 represents hydrogen or lower alkyl and each of R2 and R3 independently represents hydrogen, optionally substituted alkyl or phenyl, or 22 and 23 together with the nitrogen atom to which they are attached form a saturated ring. The expressions lower alkyl and lower alkoxy used herein mean alkyl and alkoxy groups containing from one to rour carbon atoms. It is preferred that R1 is hydrogen or methyl.The optionally substituted alkyl groups represented by R2 and R3 are preferably optionally substituted lower alkyl groups. Examples of substituents which may be present on the alkyl groups include hydroxy, lower alkoxy, cyano and phenyl groups. It is preferred that each of R2 and R3 independently is hydrogen or lower alkyl. in one class of dyes of the invention, A is a suiphophenyl radical which may contain one or more other substituents1 for example chlorine, bromine, cyano, nitro, carboxy, lower alkyl, lower alkoxy or acetylamino. Within this class, it is preferred that A is a sulphophenyl radical containing either one or two chlorine substituents, especially a radical of formula EMI3.1 In a second class of dyes of the invention, A is a radical of the formula EMI3.2 wherein R4 and R5 independently represent hydrogen, chlorine, lower alkyl or lower alkoxy and X represents NH , CH2 or especially 0 .Within this class, it is preferred thatA is a radical of the formula EMI3.3 In other dye of the invention, A may be a radical of the formula EMI4.1 wherein one of R6 and R7 is sulpho and the other is nitro. In further dyes of the invention, A may. be a radical of the formula EMI4.2 wherein the benzene ring contains one or more other substituents, especially chlorine atoms. The dyes of the invention may be prepared by diazotising a monosulphonated optionally substituted aniline and coupling the diazo compound so obtained with a diaminopyrimidine of the formula EMI4.3 wherein R1, R2 and R3 have the meanings given above. As examples of monosulphonated optionally substituted anilines there may be mentioned orthanilic, metanilic and sulphanilic acids and the various toluidine, anisidine, nitroaniline and aminoacetanilide sulphonic acids. Particularly important are the monosulphonated anilines containing one or two chlorine substituents, especially 2,5 dichloroaniline 4 sulphonic acid, 2,3 dichloroaniline 4 sulphonic acid, 2 chloroaniline 4sulphonic acid and 2 chloroaniline 5 sulphonic acid. Other useful diazo components include phenoxysulphonylaniline and phenylaminosulphonylaniline sulphonic acids and nit rodiphenylamine suiphonic acids. As examples of coupling components there may be mentioned 2 diethylamino 4 amino 6 methylpyrimidine, 2 ethylamino 4 aminopyrimidine, 2 anilino 4 amino 6 methylpyrimidine, 2 dibenzylamino 4 amino 6 methylpyrimidine, 2 bis hydroxyethylamino 4 arsino 6 methylpyrimidine and 2 2 ethylhexylamino 4 amino 6 methylpyrimidire. The coupling components may be prepared by conventional methods. Thus, a substituted guanidine of the formula EMI5.1 wherein R2 and R3 have the meanings given above, may be reacted with malic acid or ethyl acetoacetate to give, respectively, aminohydroxypyrimidines having the structures EMI6.1 These products, when treated with a chlorinating agent such as phosphorus oxychloride, give the corresponding compounds in which the hydroxy group is replaced by chlorine and these compounds may be converted to the corresponding amino derivatives by reaction with ammonia. The reactions leading to the formation of the dyes of the invention may be performed using conditions that have been fully described in the prior art for such reactions. Similarly, theses may be isolated by known methods and, as in the case of other dyes containing sulphonic acid groups, it is often convenient to isolate and use the dyes in the form of their water soluble salts, particularly their alkali metal or ammonium salts and especially sodium salts. Other useful salts include amine salts such as mono , di and triethanolamine salts.it is to be understood that the invention relates to both the free acids and their salts. The dyes of the invention are suitable for applying to polyamide textile materials such as wool and silk but especially to synthetic polyamide textile materials, for example nylon 66 and nylon 6, using any of the general methods known for the application of acid dyes to such materials. The dyes are characterised by bright, strong, pure yellow shades. They are rapid dyeing asd are very compatible with other rapid dyeing dyes making them particularly suitable for use in mixture shades. The dyeings have excellent light fastness and good fastness to both wet and dry treatments. When used in dyeing processes, the dyes of the invention are particularly notable for their excellent levelling properties on synthetic polyamide materials.In this respect, they are superior to closely related dyes described in United Kingdom Patent SpecificationNo.1455194. The invention is illustrated but not limited by the following Examples in which all parts and percentages are by weight. Example 1 2,5 dichloroaniline 4 sulphonic acid 9.3 parts is dissolved in 250 parts of hot water containing 20 parts of 8 sodium hydroxide solution. After cooling to O 5 C, 18 parts of 13. sodium nitrite solution are added followed by 10 parts of concentrated hydrochloric acid. After stirring for 1µ hours, excess nitrite is removed by the addition of sulphamic acid. 5.4 parts of 2 diethylamino 4 amino 6 methylpyrimidine are dissolved in 25 parts of acetic acid containing ice and 10 parts of a surface active agent Dispersol OG and the diazonium salt solution is added. The pH is adjusted to 7 by the addition of sodium hydroxide solution whereupon coupling occurs rapidly.After A hour, the precipitated dye is filtered off, washed with cold water and dried. The product dyes nylon fibres in a brilliant yellow shade having excellent fastness properties.Example 2 A dye having similar properties is obtained when the 2,5 dichloroaniline 4 sulphonic acid of Example 1 is replaced by an equivalent amount of 2,3 dichloroaniline4 sulphonic acid.Example 3 A dye having similar properties is obtained when the 2,5 dichloroaniline 4 sulphonic acid of Example 1 is replaced by an equivalent amount of 2 chloroaniline 4sulphonic acid.Example 4 A dye having similar properties is obtained when the 2,5 dichloroaniline 4 sulphonic acid of Example 1 is replaced by an equivalent amount of 2 chloroaniline 5sulphonic acid.Example 5 A dye having similar properties is obtained when the 2,5 dichloroaniline 4 sulphonic acid of Example 1 is replaced by an equivalent amount of 4 phenoxysulphonylaniline 4 sulphonic acid. Further Examples of dyes of the invention which may be prepared by methods analogous to that described in Example 1 are given in Tables 1 and 2. The dyes listed in Table 1 have the structure EMI9.1 and are identified in the Table by the substituents A1 A5 When applied to nylon, the dyes give greenish yellow shades except when otherwise stated. Table I EMI10.1 Example SEP A1 SEP A2 SEP A3 SEP A4 SEP A5 SEP Shade tb 6 SEP SO3H tb 7 SEP SO3H tb 8 SEP SO3H tb 9 SEP Cl SEP SO3H tb 10 SEP Cl SEP SO3H tb 11 SEP SO3H SEP Cl tb 12 SEP SO3H SEP Cl tb 13 SEP SO3H SEP Cl tb 14 SEP SO3H SEP Cl tb 15 SEP SO3H SEP Cl tb 16 SEP SO3H SEP Cl tb 17 SEP Cl SEP SO3H SEP Cl tb 18 SEP SO3H SEP Cl SEP Cl tb Table 1 continued EMI11.1 Example SEP A1 SEP A2 SEP A3 SEP A4 SEP A5 SEP Shade tb 19 SEP SO3H SEP Cl SEP Cl tb 20 SEP SO3H SEP Cl SEP Cl tb 21 SEP SO3H SEP Cl SEP Cl tb 22 SEP SO3H SEP OCH3 tb 23 SEP SO3H SEP OCH3 tb 24 SEP SO3H SEP CH3 SEP Cl tb 25 SEP SO3H SEP Cl SEP CH3 tb 26 SEP SO3H SEP NHCOCH3 tb 27 SEP COOH SEP SO3H tb 28 SEP NO2 SEP SO3H SEP Reddish tb yellow tb 29 SEP NO2 SEP SO3H tb 30 SEP SO3H SEP NO2 SEP Orange tb 31 SEP SO3H SEP NO2 tb Table 1 continued EMI12.1 SEP I SEP I tb Z SEP A1 SEP A2 SEP ari tb SEP 32 SEP sO3H SEP n SEP n tb SEP SEP 8 SEP 8 SEP m tb SEP 34 SEP 5O3H SEP NO2 tb SEP 35 SEP ON SEP 5O3H tb SEP SEP z SEP z SEP O tb SEP yellow tb SEP 37 SEP Br SEP S03H SEP Br tb SEP l SEP Cl SEP HO3SOSO2 SEP l tb SEP N SEP N tb SEP Q tb SEP o SEP O SEP Q tb SEP 39 SEP Cl SEP o z tb SEP 40 SEP Cl SEP HO SEP m SEP 0502 SEP Cl SEP Reddish SEP n SEP n SEP n tb SEP m SEP 8 SEP 8 tb SEP w tb SEP N SEP m tb SEP SEP oQ tb SEP r SEP O SEP U1 SEP sq SEP V SEP C tb SEP s SEP o tb Table 1 continued EMI13.1 tb SEP a tb SEP P tb SEP tr tb SEP Ln tb SEP 4 tb SEP SEP s SEP tb SEP N tb SEP o tb SEP SEP tb SEP Ben tb SEP 43 SEP HO3s7 SEP 0502 SEP CH3 tb SEP Y SEP X tb SEP i SEP HO3SOH2S02 tb SEP I SEP I SEP I tb SEP cU SEP cu SEP cu tb SEP a SEP a tb SEP M SEP tt SEP f tb SEP n SEP n tb SEP E SEP E SEP 8 tb SEP coc SEP O tb SEP rs tb SEP S SEP X SEP t SEP ts tb SEP 9 tb Table 1 continued EMI14.1 tb SEP Cg SEP o, SEP a, SEP 4 tb SEP ro SEP m tb SEP . SEP s tb SEP 4 SEP c SEP HO3 NHSO2 SEP SEP Cl SEP yellow tb SEP 48 SEP SEP Orange tb SEP SEP SEP SEP 7 SEP 7 tb SEP 8 SEP 1 tb SEP 50 SEP Cl SEP HO3SH4C25O2 SEP SEP Cl SEP Reddish tb SEP yellow tb SEP SEP . SEP tb SEP 52 SEP HO SEP 5H SEP C SEP NHSO SEP SEP Cl tb SEP 3 SEP 42 SEP 2 tb SEP E SEP S SEP O SEP SEP O SEP u SEP N tb The dyes listed in Table 2 have the structure EMI15.1 and are identified in the Table by the substituentsR1 R3. When applied to nylon, the dyes give greenish yellow shades.Table 2EMI15.2 tb Example SEP R1 SEP R2 SEP R3 tb SEP I tb 53 SEP OH SEP H tb SEP 3 tb SEP 54 SEP n SEP t SEP 1I SEP C SEP H tb SEP 25 tb SEP 55 SEP tl SEP tl SEP n C SEP p7 tb SEP 56 SEP VI SEP II SEP n C4H9 tb SEP 57 SEP ll SEP I1 SEP cR tb SEP cH3 tb SEP 58 SEP 1 SEP 11 tb SEP c OHOH tb SEP 23 tb SEP 59 SEP I, SEP ,l SEP C2R40H tb SEP 24 tb SEP 60 SEP It SEP 11 SEP C2H4CN tb SEP 24 tb SEP 61 SEP V1 SEP a SEP CH2c6H5 tb SEP 62 SEP 1I SEP st SEP OH2OH SEP C SEP H tb SEP 265 tb Table 2 continued EMI16.1 tb SEP Example SEP R1 SEP B2 SEP tb SEP 63 SEP H SEP C2H5 SEP C2R5 tb SEP 6 SEP H SEP C2Hs SEP 2II tb SEP 65 SEP tl SEP 1 tb SEP 66 SEP 11 SEP I1 SEP CR, tb SEP OH tb SEP OH3 tb SEP 67 SEP CH3 SEP OH3 SEP 1 SEP OH3 tb SEP 68 SEP 1I SEP 1I SEP C25 tb SEP 69 SEP n SEP t1 SEP n C4H9 tb SEP 70 SEP 1 SEP C2H5 SEP zl tb SEP 25 tb SEP 71 SEP l SEP tl SEP OH2C6H5 tb SEP 72 SEP 1I SEP n C SEP 7 SEP n C SEP f7 tb SEP 73 SEP 4 SEP 9 SEP n C4H9 tb 74 SEP tI SEP C SEP H SEP OH SEP C SEP H SEP OH tb SEP 24 SEP 24 tb SEP 75 SEP I1 SEP OH2OH2OH20OH3 tb SEP 76 SEP . SEP n SEP 2 SEP ethyl SEP hexyl tb SEP 77 SEP n SEP t SEP phenyl tb SEP 78 SEP II SEP SEP ,C SEP CH,C,H, tb SEP 78 SEP n SEP 265 tb