# Textile finishing.

## Abstract
A method finishing keratinous textile articles, for ex ample wool fabrics, which comprises treating the articles with an anti felt polymer for example isocyanate functional or bunte salt functional polymers, and a polymer of chlor inated ethylenically unsaturated monomer, for example polyvinyl chloride, polyvinylidene chloride, polypropylene, and dichlorobutadiene. Thereafter, the articles are treated with an anionic titanium or zirconium complex at low pH. Textiles so treated exhibit both shrink resistant and flame retardant properties.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A method finishing keratinous textile articles which comprises treating the articles with an anti felt polymer and a polymer of a chlorinated ethylenically unsaturated monomer, and thereafter treating the articles with an anionic titanium or zirconium complex at low pH. 2. A method according to claim 1 in which the anti felt polymer is an isocyanate functional polymer or a bunte salt functional polymer. 3. A method according to claim 2 in which the polymer is a polycarbomyl sulphonate 4. A method as claimed in claim 2 in which the polymer has the following structure EMI14.1 Wherein N is about 13. 5. A method as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 4 in which the chlorinated polymer is polyvinylchloride, polyvinylidene chloride, polychloroprene, or dichlorobutadiene. 6. A method as claimed in claim 5 in which the chlorinated polymer is a copolymer of polychloroprene and 2,3 dichloro 1,3 butadiene. 7. A method according to any one of claims 1 to 6 in which the titanium or zirconium is applied by exhaustion as an anionic complex with flouride, citrato, or tartrato ions at a pH in the range of 1 to 4. 8. A method according to any one of claims 1 to 7 in which the anti felt polymer is resent on the articles in the range 0.2 to 2 , the chlorinated polymer is present on the articles in the range 1 to 4 and the titanium or zirconium is present in the range 0.5 to 2.5 or 1 to 5 respectively calculated as oxide . 9. A method as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 8 in which the keratinous fibres are wool fibres. 10. A method as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 9 in which the textile article is a fabric. 11. A method as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 10 in which the polymers are applied by exhaustion, dipping, spraying or padding.

## Description
TEXTILE FINISHING This invention relates to a method of finishing keratinous fibres to render textile articles made from such fibres resistant to area felting shrinkage and flame retardant. Keratinous fibres, e.g. wool, are naturally flame retardant, but increasing stringency of regulations in various countries has meant that certain constructions of wool fabrics, or fabrics for certain end uses, e.g. in aeroplanes, and for clothing to provide protection against heat and flames, require an additional flame retardancy treatment. The titanium and zirconium flame retardancy treatments described in our U.K. PatentNos. 1,372,694 and 1,379,752 have proved eminently suitable for improving the flame retardancy of wool textiles to meet the standards imposed by, various legislative bodies. The above treatments are. fast to machine washing but, as is well known, wool textiles tend, according to construction, to felt when washed in a machine and hence shrink. Many methods for rendering wool textiles shrink resistant are available but are in general not compatible with the above treatments because of curing difficulties at low pH values, or the shrinkresist polymer applied adds to the fuel contribution, i.e. increases the combustibility, of the textile, thereby at least partly negating the flame retardancy treatment. Certain shrink resist processes involving chlorination are not incompatible with the above treatments, nor do they add significantly to the fuel value of the textile but are generally not desirable becuase chlorination lowers the water repellency and causes difficuIties with dyestuffs.There is also the disadvantage of an extra processing step involving noxious chemicals. According to the present invention there is provided a method finishing keratinous textile articles which comprises treating the articles with an anti felt polymer and a polymer of a chlorinated ethylenically unsaturated monomer, and thereafter treating the articles with an anionic titanium or zirconium complex at low pH. The process is generally applicable to watersoluble curable shrink resist polymers and prepolymers and especially those having ionic charges. Isocyanate functional polymers, and especially blocked isocyanate polymers, are preferred particularly water soluble blocked isocyanates such as polycarbomyl sulphonates.Examples of suitable polymers include polycarbamoyl sulphonates, bunte salt polymers, the amphoteric polymers of our British Patent No. 1,547,958, and anionic acrylate emulsions. Cationic polymers such as a polyamideephichlorhydrin polymer, or azetidinium polymers, may also be used provided they are compatible with the chlorinated polymer emulsion used, if a cationic emulsion is employed. When the preferred chlorinated polymer emulsions are used, which are anionic, it is preferred to use anionic anti felt polymers. Especially preferred are the polycarbomyl sulphonates described inU.K. Patent No. 1,419,306. These may conveniently be prepared from polymeric di or poly isocyanates by treatment with sodium bisulphite. Preferred polycarbomyl sulphonates have polyoxyalkylene, e.g. polypropylene oxide, backbones and three carbomoyl sulphonate groups.Particularly preferred compounds have the following structure EMI3.1 wherein n is about 13. Such a compound is available commercially under the name Synthaprett BAP Bayer . Preferred curable polymeric materials have a polymeric chain backbone and at least two thiosulphate groups per molecule. The chain may advantageously be a polyoxyalkylene, e.g. polyoxypropylene, chain.Particularly preferred materials of this type have the following structural formula EMI4.1 where n is about 13. Prepolymers of this type are disclosed in our British Patent No. 1,423,342. A suitable compound is available commercially under the name Lenkroian SHR3s. It has been found that this type of polymer gives a very good handle to the treated fabric, especially when used with the Neoprene polymer mentioned hereinafter. The polymer of a chlorinated ethylenically unsaturated monomer combines with the anti felt polymer to give a shrink resist effect, and thus allows less polymer to be used than would be necessary if it were used alone. Since the chlorinated polymers in general do not add to the fuel value of the textile and may even impart a degree of flame retardance, a net lowering of the fuel contribution of the shrink resist treatment can be obtained. The surprising properties of these polymers lie in their capacity both to enhance the shrink resist qualities of other polymers, particularly polycarbomyl sulphonates and bunte salts, and enhance the flame retardant properties of the titanium and zirconium complexes. The chlorinated polymers which may be used include in general, polyvinyl chloride, polyvinylidene chloride, polychloroprene, and dichlorobutadiene. In general the higher the chlorine content of the polymer the better its flame retardancy characteristics, but this criterion is affected by other factors.Most of these polymers are too hard alone and therefore are available as copolymers with such monomers as acrylonitrile or methacrylic acid.The latter add to the fuel value d the copolymer and in certain cases may render the polymer unsuitable.In general most commercially available polyvinylchloride compositions are unsuitable for this reason.We have found that for augmenting the shrink resist effect thereby allowing the use of less anti felt polymer while keeping the fuel contribution as low as possible, the preferred chlorinated polymers are Polidene 33 041 a polyvinylidene chloride copolymer Scott Bader Co. Tod. and Neoprene 400 a copolymer of polychloroprene and 2,3 dichloro 1,3butadiene Du Pont , especially the latter. The treatment with titanium or zirconium may be carried as described in our above U.K. Patents.In brief the metals are applied, preferably by exhaustion as anionic complexes with flouride, citrato, or tartrato ions at a PH in the range 1 to 4. The titanium treatment is more effective, weight for weight, than the zirconium treatment but leads to a slight yellow colouration and should generally be used only with dark shades or where colouration is immaterial. The quantities of agents may vary within wide limits subject to the desired degree of shrinkresistance, the flame retardancy required, and such factors as the substrate, coreactants, and so on.Thus in general the anti felt prepolymer may be applied in the range 0.1 to 10t oww, preferably 0.2 to 2 , the lowest amount compatible with adequate shrink resistance being chosen. The chlorinated polymer may be used in amounts of from 1 to 10 with 1. to.4 being preferred. The titanium or zirconium treatments may be applied in the ranges of 0,5 to 2.5 or 1 to 5 respectively calculated as oxide again depending on the substrate and the level of flame retardancy required. The keratinous fibres may be for example mohair, alpaca, vicuna, angora, or especially wool, and the textile article may be in the ftrm of loose stock, slivers, slubbings rovings, yarns, fabrics, made up garments or carpets, preferably fabrics. The shrink resist treatment may be carried out in any suitable manner e.g. exhaustion, dipping, spraying or padding, preferably the latter, and the flame retardancy treatment is preferably carried out by exhaustion from long liquor. The invention will be illustrated further by the following examples. The test methods used were as follows Felting Shrinkage This was determined after 1 hour and 3 hours in an International Cubex Washing Machine, using a phosphate buffer at PH7 and 40 C with liquor ratio 15 1, and total load I kg made up with polyester makeweights. The.results are expressed as percentage area felting shrinkage. Flame Resistance Test This was evaluated according to FederalAviation Regulations 25.853b, a vertical flame test with a 12 second ignition time. To meet this standard the after burning time should not exceed is Beconds and the char length should not be more than 8 inches, tested in both the warp and weft directions. Wash fastness of the flame retardancy effect is determined after 10 and 20 washes in aKenmore Model 21900 washing machine at 400C, liquor ratio 1 36, load 1.8 kg using 90g Bold washing power per 65 litres. Examples 1 to 10 Lankrolan SHR3 and Neoprene 400 were padded onto a wool serge fabric. The fabric was dried and then cured at 1500C for 5 minutes. Zirconium flame retardant treatment was applied by immersing the fabric at 1 20 liquor ratio in a bath containing 108 oww HC1 37 4 oww citric acid and 6 oww K2TiF6 for 30 minutes at 600C, liquor ratio 1 30, by rinsing and drying. The area felting shrinkage of the fabric after 3 hours test and the FAR 25.853B test results are given in Table i below for a variety of component concentrations. TABLE 1SHRINK RESISTANCE AND FLAME RETARDANCE EMI8.1 Flame Retardance SEP F.A.R. SEP 25.853b tb Area SEP Felting SEP Before SEP Washing SEP After SEP 10 SEP Washes SEP at SEP 40 C tb Shrinkage tb EXAMPLES SEP Treatment SEP Warp SEP Weft SEP Warp SEP Weft tb in SEP tb SEP B.T. SEP C.L. SEP B.T. SEP C.L. SEP B.T. SEP C.L. SEP B.T. SEP C.L. tb 3 SEP Hrs. tb Untreated SEP 100 SEP wool twill SEP fabric SEP 18 SEP 15 SEP F.L. SEP 15 SEP F.L. SEP SEP SEP 1. SEP 0.5 SEP Lankrolan SEP SHR3 Zirpro SEP 17 SEP 15 SEP F.L. SEP 15 SEP F.L. SEP SEP SEP SEP 2. SEP 1.0 SEP Lankrolan SEP SHR3 Zirpro SEP 14 SEP 15 SEP F.L. SEP 15 SEP F.L. SEP SEP SEP SEP 3. SEP 1.5 SEP Lankrolan SEP SHR3 Zirpro SEP 8 SEP 15 SEP F.L. SEP 15 SEP F.L. SEP SEP SEP SEP 4. SEP 2.0 SEP Lankrolan SEP SHR3 Zirpro SEP 4 SEP 15 SEP F.L. SEP 15 SEP F.L. SEP SEP SEP SEP 5. SEP 0.3 SEP Lankrolan SEP SHR3, SEP 2 SEP Neoprene SEP 400 Zirpro SEP 6 SEP 1.0 SEP 1.5 SEP 4.0 SEP 1.5 SEP 13.0 SEP 4.0 SEP 3.0 SEP 3.0 tb 6. SEP 0.3 SEP Lankrolan SEP SHR3, SEP 3 SEP Neoprene SEP 400 Zirpro SEP 4 SEP 3.0 SEP 1.5 SEP 5.0 SEP 1.6 SEP 18.0 SEP 5.0 SEP 9.0 SEP 3.5 tb 7. SEP 0.6 SEP Lankrolan SEP SHR3, SEP 2 SEP Neoprene SEP 400 Zirpro SEP 4 SEP 4.0 SEP 1.5 SEP 9.0 SEP 2.0 SEP 14.0 SEP 5.0 SEP 19.0 SEP 5.5 tb 8. SEP 0.6 SEP Lankrolan SEP SHR3, SEP 2 SEP Neoprene SEP 400 Zirpro SEP 3 SEP 3.0 SEP 2.0 SEP 4.0 SEP 1.5 SEP 12.0 SEP 4.5 SEP 3.0 SEP 3.0 tb 9. SEP 0.9 SEP Lankrolan SEP SHR3, SEP 2 SEP Neoprene SEP 400 Zirpro SEP 2 SEP 4.0 SEP 1.5 SEP 8.0 SEP 2.0 SEP 8.0 SEP 3.5 SEP 10.0 SEP 4.0 tb 10. SEP 0.9 SEP Lankrolan SEP SHR3, SEP 2 SEP Neoprene SEP 400 Zirpro SEP 2 SEP 1.5 SEP 5.0 SEP 1.5 SEP 7.0 SEP 3.5 SEP 12.0 SEP 3.5 tb All concentration based on solids and on the weight of wool.Lankrolan SHR3 40 solids content B.T. burning time in secondsC.L. char length in inchesNeoprene 400 50 solids contentF.L. full length 12 inches pad dry cure 5 minutes, 150 C Zirpro 10 HCl 37 , 4 citric acid, 6 K2TiF6, 30 minutes at 60 C, liquor ratio 1 30. The Lankrolan SHR3 treatment is not compatible with the titanium flame retardant treatments Examples Nos. 1 3 . The addition of Neoprene 400 to the Lankrolan SHR3 not only makes the shrinkresist treatment compatible with the flame retardant treatment but it also allows the lower concentration of Landrolan SHR3 to be used to achieve adequate shrink resistance Examples Nos. 4 10 . In other words the incorporation of Neoprene 400 imparts flame resistance to Lankrolan SHR3 and it also acts as a shrink resist agent. ExamPle it Synthappret BAP 0.4 oww NaHCO3 1 oww and Neoprene 400 3 were padded onto a wool serge fabric. The fabric was dried and then cured at 140 C for 5 minutes.Zirconium flame retardant treatment was applied by immersing the fabric at 1 20 liquor ratio in a bath containing 108 aww HC1 37t , 4 oww citric acid and 8 oww R2ZrF6 for 30 minutes at 700C, followed by rinsing and drying. The area felting shrinkage of the fabric was zero after 1 hour and 2 after 3 hours test and the fabric passed the FAR 25.853b test in both the warp and weft directions. It was also observed that the smooth drying properties of the fabric given this treatment were exceptionally good, and that the spray rating, according to B.S. 3702, was unchanged by the treatment. A similar fabric given a chlorination treatment showed a marked deterioration in spray rating.Examples 2 to 9 In these examples the Synthappret and Polidene were applied to various fabrics by a pad dry cure route and the Zirpro zirconium flame retardant treatment was applied as in Example 11. The results are given in the Table 2 below. EMI10.1 Ex. SEP Treatment SEP Area SEP Felting SEP Flame SEP resistance SEP FAR SEP 25.853b tb No. SEP Shrinkage SEP SEP Before SEP After SEP 10w. SEP After SEP 20w. tb 1hr. SEP 3 SEP hrs. SEP Washing tb SEP BT SEP CL SEP BT SEP CL SEP BT SEP CL tb Fabric SEP 1 SEP Wool SEP serge,197 SEP g mê tb Untreated SEP 6 SEP 40 SEP 15 SEP F.L. SEP 15 SEP F.L. SEP 15 SEP F.L. SEP 15 SEP F.L. tb 2 SEP 0.75 Synth.BAP.1.75 SEP Polidene SEP 33 041 SEP 3 SEP 1 SEP 0 SEP 5 SEP 0 SEP 5.5 SEP 0 SEP 6.0 tb 3 SEP 0.25 Synth.BAP.2.25 SEP Polidene SEP 33 004 SEP 2 SEP 9 SEP 2 SEP 4.5 SEP 1 SEP 4.5 SEP 0 SEP 5 tb SEP Fabric SEP 2 SEP woll SEP upholstery SEP fabric SEP 354 SEP g mê tb Untreated SEP 31 SEP 68 SEP 15 SEP F.L. SEP SEP 4 SEP 0.75 Synth.BAP SEP SEP 0.5 SEP NaHCO3 SEP 1.75 tb SEP Poliedene SEP 33 041 SEP 3 SEP 5 SEP 2.5 SEP 3.5 SEP SEP 5 SEP 1.0 Synth.BAP SEP SEP 0.5 SEP NaHCO3 SEP SEP 1.5 tb SEP Poliedene SEP 33 041 SEP 3 SEP 4 SEP 10 SEP 5 SEP SEP 6 SEP 0.5 Synth.BAP SEP SEP 0.5 SEP NaHCO3 SEP 2 tb SEP Poliedene SEP 33 004 SEP 1 SEP 10 SEP 2.5 SEP 2.5 tb SEP Fabric SEP 3 wool SEP upholstery SEP fabric SEP 475g mê tb Untreated SEP 13 SEP 24 SEP 715 SEP F.L. SEP SEP 7 SEP 1.0 Synth.BAP SEP SEP 0.5 SEP NaHCO3 SEP 1.5 tb SEP Poliedene SEP 33 041 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1.5 SEP SEP 8. SEP 0.75 Synth.BAP SEP SEP 0.5 SEP NaHCO3 1.75 tb SEP Poliedene SEP 33 021 SEP 1 SEP 5 SEP 2.5 SEP 1.5 SEP SEP SEP Fabric SEP 4 SEP wool SEP upholstery SEP fabric SEP 483 SEP g mê tb Untreated SEP 10 SEP 20 SEP 15 SEP F.L. tb 9. SEP 0.5 Synth.BAP SEP SEP 0.5 SEP NaHCO3 SEP SEP 2 SEP 0 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1.5 tb SEP Polidene SEP 33 041 tb B.T. Burning time in seconds C.L. Char length in inches F.L. Full length 12 inches The upholstery fabrics were not tested for flame resistance after washing.The spray rating of both the treated and untreated samples was 3 in each case. Example 20 An all wool gaberdine fabric, 270 g m2, was treated with 1.25 Synthappret BAP, 1.258 Neoprene 400 and 1 NaHC03 by the pad dry cure technique, curing being achieved by heating to 150 0C for 5 minutes. Thereafter, in a separate bath, the fabric was given a zirpro treatment with 10 Hcl 378 , 4 citric acid, and 6 K2 Ti F6 for 30 minutes at 70 0C at a fabric to liquor ratio of 1 25. The results are given in Table 3 below.Example 21 Example 20 was repeated with the inclusion of 3 FC214 a fluorocarbon supplied by the 3M Company in the Zirpro treatment. As can be seen from Table 3 below, this resulted in a fabric which was shrink resistant, flame retardant, and oil and water repellant, the first three properties being fast to severe washing at 600C and the last fast to at least 20 washes at 400C. TABLE 3EVALUATION OF MULTI PURPOSE FINISCHES ON A 100 WOLL GABERDINE FABRIC 270 g mê EMI12.1 Flame retardance SEP AATCC SEP Spray SEP Rating SEP B.S. SEP 3702 tb Felting SEP Shrinkage SEP Oil SEP Rating tb SEP B.S. SEP 3119 3120 SEP 118 1975 tb Example SEP Treatment SEP B.W. SEP A SEP 20 SEP W SEP 40 SEP A SEP 25 SEP W SEP 60 tb 3 SEP hr SEP 3 SEP hr SEP Cubex tb No. SEP B.W. SEP A SEP 20 SEP W SEP 40 SEP A SEP 25 SEP W SEP 60 SEP B.W. SEP A SEP 20 SEP W SEP 40 SEP A SEP 25 SEP W SEP 60 tb Cubex SEP SEP A SEP 25 SEP W SEP 60 SEP W.I. SEP R SEP W.I. SEP R SEP W.I. SEP R tb Untreated SEP 20 SEP 63.7 SEP Fail SEP Fail SEP Fail SEP 0 SEP SEP SEP 12.9 SEP 2 SEP SEP SEP SEP 20 SEP 1.25 Synthappret SEP BAP, SEP 1.25 Neoprene SEP 400, SEP 0.3 SEP Pass SEP Pass SEP Pass SEP 0 SEP 13.8 SEP 2 SEP SEP SEP SEP 1 SEP NaHCO3 Zirpro SEP 1 tb 21 SEP 1.25 Synthappret SEP BAP, SEP 1.25 Neoprene SEP 400, SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP Pass SEP Pass SEP Pass SEP 6 SEP 6 SEP 5 SEP 0.3 SEP 5 SEP 0.8 SEP 5 SEP 13.9 SEP 2 tb 1 SEP NaHCO3 Zirpro SEP 2 tb Treatment from a separate bath B.W. Before WashingA 20 W 40 After 20 washes at 40 CA 25 W 60 After 25 washes at 60 C, Wascator, liquor ratio 1 10W.I. Weight increase in during spray testR Rating 5 best, 1 worst . Oil rating 8 best, 0 worstZirpro 1 10 HCl 37 , 4 citric acid, 6 K2 Ti F6, 30 min 70 C, liquor ratio 1 25Zirpro 2 10 HCl 37 , 4 citric acid, 6 K2 Ti F6, 3 FC 214, 30 min 70 C, liquor ratio 1 25Synthappret BAP Bayer and Neoprene 400 Du Pont applied by pad dry cure 5 min,150 C technique.All concentrations expressed in solids, except FC 214 3 M Company as supplied. Thus it can be seen that the process of the invention enables a shrink resistant and flame retardant finish to be applied to wool fabrics by a simple route using commercìally available chemicals, without adversely affecting properties such as water repellency.