# Process for the oxidation of lupulones to hulupones.

## Abstract
The process for producing hulupones by oxidation of lupulones, using an oxygen containing gas, in a substantial ly aqueous, alkaline reaction medium is improved by carrying out the reaction using conditions under which the hulu pones precipitate from the reaction medium, as a sodium or potassium salt. Hulupones are known substances which can be used as bittering agents, particularly in the brewing industry.

## Claims
CLAItRIS 1. A process for the oxidation of lupulones to hulupones,,uzing an oxygen containing gas, in a substantially aqueous reaction medium rendered alkaline using a sodium ion or potassium ion containing alkalyzing agent, characterised in that the process is carried out under conditions under which substantially all of the hulupones precipitate from the reaction medium as a sodium or a potassium salt. 2. A process according to claim 1, wherein substantially all the hulupones are caused to precipitate from the reaction medium as a sodium or potassium salt by using an initial concentration of lupulones in the range from 15 to 30 percent on a weight per volume basis. 3. The process according to claim 2, wherein said initial concentration of lupulones is in the range from 20 to 25 percent. 4. A process for the oxidation of lupulones to hulupones, using an oxygen containing gas, in a substantially aqueous reaction medium rendered alkaline using an alkalyzing agent, characterized in that the reaction is carried out in a reaction medium in which either sodium ions are present at a concentration in the range from 0.5 to 3.0 molar, or potassium ions are present at a concentration in the range from 1.0 to 5.0 molar. 5. A process according to claim 4, wherein sodium ions are present at a concentration in the range from 0.5 to 3.0 molar, and said sodium ion concentration is achieved by the use of a sodium ion containing alkalyzing agent. 6. A process according tolaim 4, wherein sodium ions are present at a concentration in the range from 0.5 to 3.0 molar, and said sodium ion concentration is achieved by using a sodium ion containing alkalyzing agent and by adding a supplementary sodium ion source. 7. A process according to claim 6, wherein said sodium ion containing alkalyzing agent is sodium hydroxide, sodium carbonate or sodium phosphate and said supplementary sodium ion source is sodium chloride, sodium sulfate or sodium acetate. 8. A process according to claim 4, wherein potassium ions are present at a concentration in the range from 1.0 to 5.0 molar, and said potassium ion concentration is achieved by the use of a potassium ion containing alkalyzing agent. 9. A process according to claim 4, wherein potassium ions are present at a concentration in the range from 1.0 to 5.0 molar, and said potassium ion concentration is achieved by using a potassium ion containing alkalyzing agent and by adding a supplementary potassium ion source. 10. A process according to claim 9, wherein said potassium ion containing alkalyzing agent is potassium hydroxide, potassium carbonate or potassium phosphate and said supplementary potassium ion source is potassium chloride, potassium sulfate or potassium acetate.

## Description
PROCESS FOR THE OXIDATION OF LUPULONES TO HULUPONES This invention relates to an improved method for winning bitter substances from hops and rendering them suitable for use as bittering agents in beer making. More particularly, it relates to an improved process for converting the so called beta acid component of the hop resins from hop cones, which are normally discarded in conventional brewing processes, into a form which can be used satisfactorily as a bittering agent in beer making. This process is an oxygenation reaction, in which lupulones are converted into hulupones. The term lupulones is understood to include not only lupulone itself, but other compounds present in the beta acid component, including colupulene. Similarly, the term hulupones is understood to include not only hulupone itself, but other compounds present in oxidised lupulones, including cohulupone. Processes for the oxygenation of lupulones to hulupones are described in Belgian Patent No. 805,280 British Patent No. 701,177 and United States PatentsNos. 4,013,721 3,977,953 and 2,652,333. This invention provides an improvement in the process for producing hulupones by oxidation of lupulones, using an oxygen containing gas, in a substantially aqueous reaction medium rendered alkaline by the addition of an alkalyzing agent.Said improvement consists of carrying out the process using conditions under which the hulupone product precipitates out of the reaction medium as the sodium or potassium salt. Precipitation is caused to occur quite conveniently by using a sodium ion or potassiumion containing alkalyzing agent, and running the process with a high initial concentration of lupulones.The same effect, i.e. that of causing the hulupones to precipitate as a sodium or potassium salt, is also achieved by using a reaction medium in which there is a high concentration of sodium or potassium ions.When a high sodium or potassium ion concentration is used, the sodium or potassium ions can be derived from the alkalyzing agent, or from a supplementary sodium ion or potassium ion source. Additionally, when a high sodium ion or potassium ion concentration is used, the sodium or potassium ions can be derived partly from the alkalyzing agent and partly from a supplementary sodium ion o,r potassium ion source. Hops have been used in the brewing industry for hundreds of years, on account of their content of bitter substances. In a conventional brewing process, the hop cones are boiled with sweet wort in a copper kettle for about one to two hours, and then the wort is filtered and allowed to cool. During this boiling process, only a portion of the hop resins the socalled alpha acids or humulones is extracted, and considerable residue the so called beta acids or lupulones remains on the hop strainer. The latter material is then discarded. On the other hand, it was discovered that if hop cones which had been aged were examined, the lupulones had been partially converted into hulupones. These latter substances are freely soluble in the wort and have an excellent bitter taste. Following this discovery, much effort was expended to try and bring about the lupulone to hulupone conversion artificially, and in a manner that would be fast and economical enough to permit utilization of the lupulone containing material which had previously been discarded. Several methods have been developed for the oxidative conversion of lupulones to hulupones. For example, the conversion can be carried out using oxygen in the presence.of sodium sulfite in alcoholic solution, or with sodium peroxydisulfate in ethanol.In another method lupulone containing substances were dissolved in trichloroethylene and treated with oxygen. However, the simplest and most convenient method of carrying out this conversion comprises dissolving lupulone containing material in a substantially aqueous reaction medium, at an alkaline pH, and treating this solution with oxygen gas, optionally in the presence of a catalyst. Although this method has been used successfully, it suffers from disadvantages, and the purpose of the present invention is to provide an improvement in this process. Said improvement comprises conducting the reaction using conditions under which substantially all of the hulupone product precipitates from the reaction medium as a sodium or a potassium salt. This offers the unexpected advantage of providing a higher yield of hulupones and of providing hulupones of higher purity then has been possible hitherto.In particular, the expedient of causing the products to precipitate avoids the problem of overoxidation, a common problem with the prior art processes. Additionally, by causing the products to precipitate, a purer product is obtained, since impurities are retained in solution. The present invention offers the further advantage of simplified isolation of products. Whereas prior art processes require that the reaction mixture be acidified and extracted with a water immiscible organic solvent, the process of the present invention allows direct isolation of the hulupone salts. Additionally, the use of concentrated solutions offers economic advantages and advantages of convenience when working on an industrial scale. In carrying out the process of this invention, lupulones, or lupulone containing material, are dissolved in a substantially aqueous solution, at a pH in the range from about 10 to about 14, preferably 13 to 14. This solution is then contacted with an oxygen containing gas, at a temperature in the range from about 25 to about 1000C., preferably 50 900C.It is possible simply to bubble the oxygen containing gas through the reaction medium, with good agitation however, particularly when working on a large scale, it is usually more convenient to use a sealed reaction vessel containing the lupulone solution and substantially pure oxygen gas. Under these conditions the pressure inside the reaction vessel is usually in the range from about 10 to about 120 psig, with a pressure of about 50 to about 100 psig being preferred. The pH value of 10 to 14 is achieved by adding an alkalyzing agent to the reaction medium, and a wide variety of alkalyzing agents can be used, including both organic and inorganic types. The major requir ments for the alkalyzing agent are that the PKa a of its conjugate acid must be sufficiently high that a pH of 10 to 14 can be achieved, and the alkalyzing agent must not adversely interact with either the lupulone reactant or the hulupone product. Examples of organic alkalyzing agents are tertiary amines, such as triethylamine or N methylpiperidine examples of inorganic alkalyzing agents are the hydroxides, carbonates and phosphates of the alkali metals, e.g. the hydroxides, carbonates and phosphates of sodium and potassium. Sodium hydroxide and potassium hydroxide are particularly useful agents. The term oxygen containing gas refers to pure oxygen and to oxygen diluted with inert diluents such as nitrogen and argon, and it includes air. Reaction times vary according to a variety of factors, such as the reaction temperature, the concentration of the lupulone solution and the partial pressure of the oxygen. However, at a temperature of 50 to 900C., and working in a sealed vessel with pure oxygen at a pressure of about 50 to 100 psig, with lupulone concentrations of about 5 to 30 on a weight per volume basis, reaction times of about 0.5 to 2 hours are commonly used. In any event, it is usually preferable to monitor the reaction by following oxygen uptake. Usually the reaction is stopped when from about 100 to about 170 mole percent of oxygen has been absorbed, based on the initial lupulone starting material. As indicated hereinbefore, the process of this invention is carried out under conditions which cause the hulupone product to precipitate as its sodium or potassium salt. This is most simply achieved by using a sodium ion.or potassium ion containing alkalyzing agent and working at higher initial concentrations of lupulones than have been used hitherto. Specifically, it has been found that when a sodium ion or potassium ion containing alkalyzing agent is used, substantially all the hulupones i.e.at least 85 will precipitate if an initial concentration of lupulones of between 15 and 30 percent, on a weight per volume basis, is used. The preferred initial lupulone concentration is 20 to 25 percent. The process of this invention can also be carried out at initial lupulone concentrations of less than 15 percent, Under these circumstances, the hulupone product is induced to precipitate as its sodium or potassium salt by conducting the reaction in the presence of a large excess of a cation selected from the group consisting of sodium and potassium. Effectively, this depresses the solubility of the sodium or potassium salt of the hulupone, and thus causes it to precipitate. Using this technique, initial concentrations of lupulones of as low as about 3 percent can be oxidized efficiently. The amount of excess sodium or potassium ion varies with the initial concentration of the lupulones, but total concentrations of sodium ions from about 0.5 to about 3.0 molar, and total concentrations of potassium ions from about 1.0 to about 5.0 molar, are normally used. Clearly, cation concentrations from the higher ends of these ranges are used when the initial concentration of lupulones is low, while cation concentrations from the low ends of these ranges are used when the initial concentration of lupulone is high. In order to achieve the excess sodium ion or potassium ion levels, it is possible simply to use an excess of a sodium ion containing or potassium ion containing alkalyzing agent. Thus, when a sodium ion concentration of 0.5 to 3.0 molar is required, sufficient sodium ion containing alkalyzing agent, such as sodium hydroxide, sodium carbonate or sodium phosphate, or mixture thereof, is added to give the requisite concentration. In like manner, when a potassium ion concentration of 1.0 to 5.0 molar is required, sufficient potassium ion containing alkalyzing agent, such as potassium hydroxide, potassium carbonate or potassium phosphate, or mixture thereof, is.added to give the requisite concentration. However, when using a sodium ion containing or potassium ion containing alkalyzing agent, it is possible to use a reaction medium in which some of the sodium or potassium ion comes from the alkalyzing agent and the remainder comes from the addition of one or more supplementary cation sources. Additionally, when using an alkalyzing agent which does not contain sodium or potassium ions, it is possible to use a reaction medium in which all the sodium or potassium ion comes from the addition of one or more supplementary cation sources. A wide variety of supplementary cation sources can be used. The major requirements for such an agent are that it liberates ionic sodium or potassium on dissolution in water, and that the counterion thus liberated does not adversely affect the lupulones or the hulupones. Sodium or potassium salts of both inorganic and organic acids can be used however, for reasons of accessibility and economy, convenient supplementary sodium ion sources are sodium chloride, sodium sulfate and sodium acetate, and convenient supplementary potassium ion sources are potassium chloride, potassium sulfate and potassium acetate. As indicated hereinbefore, the process of this invention represents an improvement over known processes for oxidizing lupulones to hulupones, with oxygen gas, in a substantially aqueous, alkaline medium. It is known that such processes can be carried out in the presence of a wide variety of catalysts, and it is to be understood that the improvement disclosed and claimed herein applies equally well to catalyzed as well as uncatalyzed processes. It is known that both homogeneous and heterogeneous catalysts can be used and that heterogeneous catalysts can be used in both supported and unsupported forms. The improvement of this invention applies in all situations. In particular, the improvement applies to the processes disclosed in United StatesPatents Nos. 4,013,721 and 2,652,333, and BelgianPatent No. 805,280. The hulupone product obtained from the process of this invention is readily isolated by conventional techniques. For example, the product can be recovered simply by filtration, and it can be purified by known methods for hulupone compounds, if desired. In the case wherein a heterogeneous catalyst has been used, a simple method of purification which is often used involves dissolution of the hulupone in methanol, filtration of the methanol solution and removal of the methanol by solvent evaporation. The following examples are provided for further illustration however, they are not to be construed as imposing any limitations on this invention, since many variations are possible without deviating from the spirit and scope thereof. EXAMPLE 1 Oxidation of a Colupulone Lupulone Mixture Using a Cobaltic Oxide Catalyst To a solution of 100.0 g. 246 mmole of a 65 35 colupulone lupulone mixture, in 500 ml. of 1.SM sodium hydroxide, 1.0 g. of cobaltic oxide catalyst was added. The reaction vessel was charged with nitrogen to 30 psig, and then heated to 600C. with shaking. At this point the shaking was stopped, the nitrogen pressure was released, and the reaction vessel was charged with oxygen to a pressure of 70 psig. The vessel was shaken and heated for 40 minutes. During this period the temperature and pressure varied according to the following Time Pressure Temperature Minutes psig C. 0 70 80 1 65 80 2 62 80 3 60 88 4 57 88 6 54 98 9 52 98 11 repressurized 70 98 13 68 98 20 65 98 28 62 98 40 60 98 At this point the shaking was stopped, the reaction vessel was cooled, and the oxygen pressure was released. Total oxygen consumption was 350 mmole, which is equivalent to 1.42 mole per mole of lupulones. The supernatant liquid was removed by decantation, and the residue was washed twice with 150 ml. of water. This afforded 63.0 g. of crude cohuluponehulupone product. The product was assayed by ultraviolet spectroscopy, according to standard techniques. The assay indicated that the crude product contained 50 hulupones, which corresponds to a 40 yield. The product was also assayed by high pressure liquid chromatography HPLC , according to standard techniques. This assay indicated that the crude product contained 34 cohulupone and 19 hulupone.This corresponds to a 42 yield of hulupones. EXAMPLE 2 Oxidation of Colupulone To a solution of 5.0 g. 12.5 mmoles of colupulone in 25 ml. of 1.5 M sodium hydroxide in a pressure bottle, was added the catalyst see Table I, below .The reaction vessel was heated to the reaction temperature Table I , pressurized to 55 60 psig with oxygen, and shaken until the pressure drop leveled off. The reaction vessel was cooled to room temperature, and the supernatant liquid was removed by decantation. The residue was washed with water and then it was dissolved in methanol. The methanol solution was filtered except for Run 5 , and evaporated to dryness in vacuo to give the crude product. The product was assayed for cohulupone by ultraviolet spectroscopy, according to standard techniques. TABLE I EMI12.1 Product tb Reaction SEP Oxygen SEP Crude SEP purity SEP Yield tb Temperature SEP time SEP uptake SEP yield SEP sodium SEP corrected tb Run SEP Catlayst SEP SEP C. SEP SEP mins SEP mmole SEP g. SEP cohulupone SEP for SEP purity tb 1 SEP 151 SEP mg. SEP of SEP 10 tb platinum on carbon SEP 25 SEP 91 SEP 20.5 SEP 3.05 SEP 53.6 SEP 38 tb 2 SEP 60 SEP mg. SEP of SEP 10 tb platinum on carbon SEP 100 SEP 64 SEP 19.0 SEP 2.79 SEP 57.7 SEP 38 tb 3 SEP None SEP 80 SEP 42 SEP 19.0 SEP 2.28 SEP 61.7 SEP 33 tb 4 SEP 51 SEP mg. SEP of SEP 10 tb platinum on carbon SEP 50 SEP 40 SEP 20.2 SEP 2.65 SEP 70.0 SEP 44 tb 5 SEP 203 SEP mg. SEP sodium tb vanadate SEP 80 SEP 50 SEP 20.1 SEP 2.95 SEP 55.6 SEP 39 tb 6 SEP 39 SEP mg. SEP of SEP platinum SEP 80 SEP 31 SEP 22.7 SEP 2.76 SEP 62.4 SEP 41 tb 7 SEP 47 SEP mg. SEP of tb cobaltic SEP oxide SEP 80 SEP 35 SEP 17.3 SEP 3.39 SEP 57.9 SEP 46 tb 8 SEP 47 SEP mg. SEP of tb platinum SEP oxide SEP 80 SEP 63 SEP 19.6 SEP 2.43 SEP 70.2 SEP 40 tb EXAMPLE 3 Oxidation of Colupulone in the Presence of Sodium Sulfate To a solution of 2.5 g. 6.24 mmole of colupulone and 5.4 g. 38 mmole of sodium sulfate in 38 ml. of 0.5 M sodium hydroxide, in a pressure vessel, was added 95 mg. of 10 platinum on carbon. The reaction vessel was heated to 800C. and pressurized to 60 psig with oxygen. The reaction vessel was then shaken until the pressure drop leveled off.This required 100 minutes, and the oxygen uptake was 10.0 mmole.The supernatant liquid was removed by decantation, and the residue was washed with water and dissolved in methanol. The catalyst was removed by filtration, and then evaporation in vacuo afforded 1.47 g. of a light brown solid, containing 58 cohulupone sodium salt, according to an assay by ultraviolet spectroscopy. EXAMPLE 4 The procedure of Example 3 is repeated, except that the sodium sulfate is replaced by 76 mmoles of sodium chloride and sodium acetate, respectively.This affords, in each case, cohulupone sodium salt. EXAMPLE 5 Cohulupone Potassium Salt To a solution of 6.0 g. 15 mmole of colupulone and 4.0 g. 23 mmole of potassium sulfate in 38 ml.of 1.5 M potassium hydroxide, in a pressure vessel, is added 100 mg. of 10 platinum on carbon. The reaction vessel is heated to 800C., and then it is pressurized to 60 psig with oxygen. The reaction vessel is shaken until the pressure drop levels off.The reaction vessel is cooled and opened, and the reaction mixture is filtered. The residue is washed with a small volume of cold water, and then methanol is added. The insoluble material is removed by filtration, and then the methanol is removed by evaporation in vacuo, to give cohulupone potassium salt. EXAMPLE 6 The procedure of Example 5 is repeated, except that the potassium sulfate is replaced by 90 mmoles of potassium chloride and potassium acetate, respectively.This affords, in each case, cohulupone potassium salt. EXAMPLE 7 Oxidation of a Crude Beta Acid Fraction of Hop Extract To 50 ml. of a basic aqueous hop extract fraction, 1.4 M in sodium hydroxide, and containing 8.65 g. 21.4 mmole of beta acids according to an assay by ultraviolet spectroscopy, in a pressure vessel, was added 101 mg. of cobaltic oxide. The reaction mixture was heated to 80cC., pressurized to 70 psig with oxygen, and then shaken until the pressure drop began to level off. This took 24 minutes, and the oxygen consumption was 30.8 mmole. The supernatant liquid was removed by filtration, and the residue was washed with water. The residue was then dissolved in methanol. The methanol solution was filtered and then evaporated to dryness to give 6.57 g. of a light brown solid. Assay by ultraviolet spectroscopy indicated that the product contained 36.2 hulupones 33 yield .