# Fastening devices combined with locks.

## Abstract
A lock assembly of the type including a slidable bolt and catch arrangement for use on the leading edge of a roller shut ter, sliding door, or window, comprising a cylinder lock 8 , a cam plate 10 mounted on the rear end of the cylinder 9 of the lock so as to be rotatable with the cylinder, a bolt 15 slid able in a plane perpendicular to the axis of the cylinder lock, a cam follower 14 on the bolt, an enclosed space into which one end 19 of the bolt projects, spring means 21 to urge the bolt towards said space, and a catch 28 adapted to be se cured in a base, adapted to fit into said enclosed space and adapted to engage said end of said bolt, so that the catch can not be withdrawn from the enclosed space unless the bolt is retracted.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A lock assembly comprising a cylinder lock, a cam plate mounted on the rear end of the cylinder of the lock so as to be rotatable with the cylinder, a bolt slidable in a plane perpendicular to the axis of the cylinder lock, a cam follower on the bolt, an enclosed space into which one end of the bolt projects, spring means to urge the bolt towards said space, and a catch adapted to be secured in a base, adapted to fit into said enclosed space and adapted to engage said end of said bolt, so that the catch cannot be withdrawn from the enclosed space unless the bolt is retracted. 2. A lock assembly as claimed in claim 1, wherein the enclosed space is enclosed on three sides defined by a first and second plane parallel to a plane containing the axis of the bolt, and by a third plane perpendicular to the axis of the bolt on the far side of the enclosed space from the bolt. 3. A lock assembly as claimed in claim 2, wherein the enclosed space is also enclosed on a fourth side defined by a fourth plane parallel to said third plane but on the side of the space near to the bolt, the means for enclosing said space on said fourth side being a wall having an aperture through which the bolt can pass. 4. A lock assembly as claimed in claim 2 or 3, wherein the enclosed space is also enclosed on a fifth side defined by a fifth plane perpendicular to the first and second planes, and on the far side of the space from the catch. 5. A lock assembly as claimed in any of the preceding claims, wherein the cylinder lock, cam plate, bolt and spring means are mounted on a front plate forming a side of the assembly parallel to a plane containing the axis of the bolt. 6. A lock assembly as claimed in any preceding claim including means at the rear of the assembly to retract the bolt manually. 7. A lock assembly as claimed in any preceding claim such that when the bolt is in an extended position, the cylinder lock is in a first key release position. 8. A lock assembly as claimed in any preceding claim, including means to lock the bolt in a retracted position. 9. A lock assembly as claimed in claim 8, wherein the cam plate is adapted to be rotatable with the cylinder through an angle of 1800, such that when the bolt is in a retracted position, the cylinder lock is in a second key release position, in which position the lock can be set to lock the bolt in a retracted position on release of a key from the lock. 10. A lock assembly as claimed in claim 6, wherein the means to retract the bolt is provided by a pin insertable through a slot into the bolt.

## Description
Improvements in or relating to locksThe present invention relates to locks, more particularly for shutters and doors, as used for example on the windows and entrances of business premises, particularly roller shutters for lock up shops or vehicles.Such shutters are normally made of channel slats of aluminium or other metal.Various types of lock are available for such shutters, including that of my UK patent application No. 2027 IIIA. However, there is a need for a robust lock to be used on the leading edge of such a shutter or door, in order to secure it to a base, such as the ground, a floor or sill or a frame member, including a vertical frame member if the shutter is horizontally slidable rather than vertically slidable, for instance in the case of a sliding door or a concertina type door.The present invention provides a lock assembly comprising a cylinder lock, a cam plate mounted on the rear end of the cylinder of the lock so as to be rotatable with the cylinder, a bolt slidable in a plane perpendicular to the axis of the cylinder lock, a cam follower on the bolt, an enclosed space into which one end of the bolt projects, spring means to urge the bolt towards said space, and a catch adapted to be secured in a base, adapted to fit into said enclosed space and adapted to engage said end of said bolt, so that the catch cannot be withdrawn from the enclosed space unless the bolt is retracted.Normally the enclosed space is enclosed on 3 sides, i.e. two planes parallel to a plane containing the axis of the bolt and a third plane perpendicular to the axis of the bolt on the far side of the enclosed space from the bolt. The space may also be enclosed by a fourth plane parallel to said third plane but on the side of the space near to the bolt provided that there is an aperture in the enclosing wall through which the bolt can pass. Furthermore, the space is also preferably enclosed by a fifth plane perpendicular to the first two planes and on the far side of the space from the catch.In some cases, such as a shop where the owner lives on or over the premises, it may be desirable to be able to retract the bolt from the rear of the assembly without moving the cylinder lock which can normally only be operated by a key from the front of the assembly .In one embodiment of the invention, therefore, means are provided to retract the bolt manually from the rear of the assembly.Three embodiments of the invention are illustrated in the accompanying drawings, in which Figure 1 is a rear elevation of a lock assembly showing the bolt extended and the catch in the locked position but omitting the rear plate Figure 2 is an underneath plan view in the direction A in Figure 1 but omitting the catch unit Figure 3 is a rear elevation of the rear plate Figure 4 is a top plan view of the catch unit, showing the catch in a stored position,Figure 5 is a rear elevation of a second embodiment of the invention, showing the bolt extended and the catch in a locked position, but omitting the rear plate Figure 6 is a rear elevation of the embodiment of Figure 5, showing the bolt retracted and the catch in a released position, but omitting the rear plate.Figure 7 is an underneath plan view partly cut away and omitting the catch of a third embodiment of the invention.The lock assembly comprises a lock unit 1 and a catch unit 2. The lock unit 1 includes a front plate 3 of steel having a top flange 4 extending rearwardly and a rear plate 5 having two side flanges 6, 7 extending forwardly, so that the combination of plates and flanges forms a box which is only open at the bottom. Alternativel y, the side flanges may be provided on the front plate, or overlapping or abutting flanges may be provided on both the front and rear plate. If desired, another flange can be provided to partially close the bottom also. A cylinder lock 8 is mounted in the front plate with the keyhole extending forwardly. The cylinder lock in this embodiment is of the cam type as described in my Patent Application No. 16 2 78, such as the kind commercially available under the name L F Double Safe from Lowe Fletcher, which has two key release positions in which the lock is set.As shown in Figures 1 and 2, the rear of the cylinder 9 has a cam plate 10 secured thereto by a screw 11 with a fibre washer 12 between the plate and the screw . The cam plate 10 is of generally rectangular shape with rounded corners, the axis of attachment to the cylinder 9 being close to one of the short sides of the rectangle so that the greater part of the cam plate forms a wing 13 projecting from the rear of the cylinder at right angles to the axis of the cylinder. It will be appreciated that the shape of the cam plate can be varied, provided that it has the desired action on the cam follower 14 to be described below .A bolt 15 is slidable on the face of the base plate 1, being located in two U shaped brackets 16, 17 welded to the base plate. The bracket 17 has a flange 18 which is also riveted to the base plate. The locking end of the bolt 15 has a chamfered surface 19. The abutment end 20 of the bolt is acted upon by a compression spring 21 housed inside bracket 17 and retained by a split pin 22 passing through two holes in the limbs of the bracket.Projecting from the rear surface of the bolt is a cam follower 14, which in this embodiment is a screw. Adjacent to the screw 14 there is a cylindrical keyhole 23 bored into the bolt.The front plate 3 also has a pair of bolt holes 24 which are surrounded by a pair of spacing sleeves 25 extending rearwardly. These sleeves may be attached to the front plate as shown or they may be loosely carried on bolts inserted through the bolt holes.Referring to Figure 3, the rear plate 5 has a pair of bolt holes 26 aligned with the bolt holes 24 and also has a slot 27 through which a cylindrical key can be inserted to engage the cylindrical keyhole 23 and retract the bolt manually from the rear. The catch unit 2 includes a catch 28 which in this embodiment is cast in brass. The catch is pivotally mounted on a shaft 29 journalled in a pair of side plates 30 which between them define storage space 31 for the catch. Each side plate 30 is joined to a top plate 32 projecting at right angles to the side plate. The catch may, of be lie rigidly mounted in an upstanding position.The catch 28 has a nose defined by inclined or rounded leading surfaces 33, 34. The inner face of the catch has a recess 35 into which the locking end of bolt 15 extends see Figure 1 .On the outer face of the catch there is a cylindrical keyhole 36, similar to that on the bolt 23 .Figures 5 and 6 show a second embodiment of the lock assembly of the invention. The wing 13 of the cam plate 10 is cut off at an angle allowing the cam plate to be rotated through an angle of 1800 from the position shown in Figure 5 to the position shown in Figure 6. The cylinder lock 0 has two key release positions 180 apart, in both of which the lock is set when the key is withdrawn. A bolt stop is provided by a screw 14a projecting from the face of the bolt 15. When the bolt is extended, as shown in Figure 5, the screw 14a abuts the bracket 16 to prevent the spring 21 from urging the abutment end 20 of the bolt clear of the bracket 17. The cut off angle of the wing 13 is such that the wing 13 clears the screw 14a during rotation. In use, the lock unit is secured on the rear of the slat at the leading edge of a shutter not shown . The front plate 3 is shaped to fit at the back of the leading slat, which normally is not channel shaped as it has a flange at the trailing edge but not at the leading edge. It is necessary to cut an aperture through the slat to receive the cylinder lock so that the keyhole of the cylinder lock appears at the front of the slat. Two bolt holes aligned with bolt holes 24 are also cut through the slat.The lock unit is suitably bolted to the slat by dome headed bolts extending through the slat, the front plate 3, sleeves 25, and rear plate 5, with nuts beyond the rear plate.The catch unit is set into the ground or floor or other base, preferably so that the top plates 32 are flush with the surrounding surface. For example, the catch unit may be set in concrete or it may be bolted or otherwise secured in position. The arrangement of top plates and side plates in the catch unit may be varied or replaced by other suitable means for retaining the catch in the base. Alternatively the catch may be made as part of, or a fitting for, a frame member against which the shutter is to be closed.In the embodiments as shown, the catch unit can be stowed out of the way when it is not in use. See Figure 4 . Prior to use, the catch is pulled up into an upright position, suitably by means of a cylindrical key or rod inserted into keyhole 36. The leading edge of the shutter is then brought to meet the catch and the catch enters the enclosed space defined by front plate 3, rear plate 5 and side flange 6. The leading surface 34 on the nose of the catch pushes against the chamfered surface 19 on the bolt 15 and causes the bolt to retract against the pressure of the spring 21. When the catch progresses further into the enclosed space, the bolt comes into line with the recess 35 on the catch and the spring pressure on the bolt causes it to enter the recess. The catch is then held within the locking unit.In order to retract the bolt, and release the catch, the cylinder lock can be operated by a key holder from the front of the shutter. According to the embodiment of Figures 1 and 2, rotation of the key in the lock causes rotation of the cam plate 10 anticlockwise in Figure 1 and the cam plate acting on cam follower 15 causes the bolt to retract sufficiently so that the locking end is withdrawn from recess 35. When the catch has been released, the lock must be returned to its rest position as shown in Figure 1 before the key can be withdrawn. Thus the locking unit is set for use again.According to the embodiment of Figures 5 and 6, the bolt is retracted in the same manner as descrIbed above. However, when the key is rotated through 1800 to rotate the cam plate 10, it moves between two key release positions, corresponding to the positions of the cam plate 10 as shown inFigures 5 and 6 respectively. Advantageously, the key holder may withdraw the key from the lock to set the lock when the bolt is retracted and the catch has been released as shown in Figure 6, thus holding the cam plate in the position shown which acts to hold the bolt in a retracted position, allowing the key holder the freedom of using both hands to lift the shutter, or slide open the door as the case may be. Alternatively, the angular separation of the key release positions may be varied from 1800 e.g. an angular separation of 450 or 900 would suffice.The catch can also be released by a person at the rear of the shutter, by inserting a cylindrical key into the hole 23 in the bolt and sliding it to the right in Figure 1. After release of the catch, the bolt slides back again to its extended position under spring pressure. The hole 23 may be internally screw threaded and the cylindrical key may be a bolt which can be screwed into the hole 23.If there is limited space behind the shutter for example because of a wall , the lock unit of the present invention may be secured to the front face of the leading slat by bolts passing through the front plate 3, rear plate 5 and then through the slat. If the leading slat has a bottom lip which extends forwardly, an opening is cut in this lip to allow the catch to pass through it.In another embodiment of the invention, there is no rear plate, but a channel shaped housing is provided on the rear face of the front plate, this housing being open to the bottom and being shaped to define an enclosed space to receive the catch. An aperture is cut through one channel wall of the housing to allow the bolt to enter the enclosed space. A cover may also be provided for the rear of the cylinder lock in this embodiment.The lock assembly of the present invention can be used in different locations and the words top and bottom have been used in the foregoing description to relate to positions in the drawings, not necessarily to positions when the assembly is in use.For instance, in the further embodiment shown in Figure 7, the lock assembly of the present invention may be used in conjunction with a concertina door, or any type of sliding door, wherein the lock assembly is positioned at right angles to the projection shown in the previous Figures with the bottom of the lock assembly at the leading edge of the door. In a concertina door having a channel section as its leading edge, the lock assembly may conveniently be fitted into the channel. As shown in Figure 7, the lock assembly is generally similar to that shown in Figures 5 and 6 but the side flanges 36 and 37 are provided on the front plate. The rear plate 35 extends on both sides beyond the flanges 36 and 37, and screw holes 38 are provided in both of the extended side portions. The rear plate 35 is also provided with a cover flange 39 perpendicular to the plate. The cover flange has an aperture not shown through which the catch enters the space into which the bolt projects.An opening is cut in the rear face of the channel section leading portion of the door, the opening being large enough for the front plate of the lock assembly to pass through it but not large enough for the extended rear plate to pass through. The extended side portions of the rear plate are bolted to the door section by bolts passing through the screw holes 38. The cover flange laps over the leading edge of the door section, through which an aperture is cut to enable the catch to pass through. Another aperture is cut through the front face of the door section to accommodate the front of the cylinder lock 8.Where the lock assembly of the present invention is used in conjunction with either sliding doors or shutters, it may be advantageous from the point of view of additional security to provide a channel or recess into which the leading edge incorporating the lock assembly may be adapted to fit. This makes it difficult to tamper with the catch when the door or shutter is closed. In this instance the catch would be secured within the channel or recess and would normally be rigidly mounted since there would be no need for the catch to pivot into a stored position. The means for retracting the bolt from the rear could suitably comprise a knob or other projection extending rearwardly from the bolt.The lock assembly of the present invention is economic to produce, easy to fit and easy to operate. It is well protected against damage, whether accidental or deliberate, but in the event of a component needing to be replaced, this can be done without major difficulty or expense.