# Improvements in or relating to pipe joints and pipe couplings.

## Abstract
The invention provides a coupling for pipes or pipe like members including an annuiar sleeve member 2 having an open end an annular internal recess 3 in the sleeve member 2 extending from the open end thereof a spring washer 4 disposed in the annular recess 3 at the end thereof remote from the open end of the sleeve 2 , and having radially inwardly extending teeth 5 which, in an unstressed condition, project beyond the internal wall 6 of the sleeve 2 and are inclined in a direction axially inwardly of the sleeve 2 an annular insert 7 secured within the annular recess 3 at or adjacent the open end of the sleeve 2 and the annular insert 7 having an internal annular groove 9 within which is located a resilient elastomeric annular member adapted to constitute a sealing member 10 for the coupling.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A coupling for pipes or pipe like members characterised by an annular sleeve member having an open end an annular internal recess in the sleeve member extending from the open end thereof a spring washer disposed in the annular recess at the end thereof remote from the open end of the sleeve, and having radially inwardly extending teeth which, in an unstressed condition, project beyond the internal wall of the sleeve and are inclined in a direction axially inwardly of the sleeve an annular insert secured within the annular recess at or adjacent the open end of the sleeve and the annular insert being provided with an internal annular groove within which is located a resilient elastomeric annular member adapted to constitute a sealing member for the coupling. 2. A coupling as claimed in claim 1 characterised in that it is formed of polyethylene material. 3. A coupling as claimed in any one of the preceding claims characterised in that the annular insert is secured within the annular recess by welding or fusing. 4. A coupling as claimed in any one of the preceding claims characterised in that the resilient elastomeric annular member is in the form of an 0 ring of circular or oval cross section. 5. A coupling as claimed in any one of the preceding claims characterised in that said annular internal recess is shouldered part way along its length, the end thereof remote from the open end of the sleeve having a smaller internal diameter than the remainder of the recess. 6. A coupling as claimed in claim 5 characterised in that the annular insert is located within the portion of the annular recess having the larger internal diameter. 7. A coupling as claimed in claim 6 characterised in that the inner end of the annular insert constitutes a side wall of an annular groove locating the spring washer. 8. A coupling as claimed in any one of the preceding claims characterised in that the sleeve member is part of a pipe work fitting. 9. A coupling as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 8 characterised in that the sleeve member is a double ended sleeve having internal recesses, spring washers, inserts, and sealing members at each end so as to provide a coupling member as such between two pipes or pipe like members. 10. A pipe joint characterised by incorporating a coupling as claimed in any one of the preceding claims.

## Description
Improvements in or relating to pipe joints and pipe couplings This invention relates to pipe joints and pipe couplings. More particularly the invention relates to such joints and couplings for connecting pipes or pipe like members of plastics or soft metals such as copper to other pipes or pipe like members or to pipe work fittings such as elbows, T junctions, valves, etc. According to the invention there is provided a coupling for pipes or pipe like members including an annular sleeve member having an open end an annular internal recess in the sleeve member extending from the open end thereof a spring washer disposed in the annular recess at the end thereof remote from the open end of the sleeve, and having radially inwardly extending teeth which, in an unstressed condition, project beyond the internal wall of the sleeve and are inclined in a direction axially inwardly of the sleeve an annular insert secured within the annular recess at or adjacent the open end of the sleeve and the annular insert being provided with an internal annular groove within which is located a resilient elastomeric annular member adapted to constitute a sealing member for the coupling. The couplings may be of polymeric material and may be of polyethylene material. The annular insert may be secured within the annular recess by welding or fusing. The resilient elastomeric annular member may be in the form of 0 ring and may be of circular or oval cross section. With a coupling according to the invention as hereinabove defined, the joint is made by inserting a pipe of a sliding fit into the open end of the sleeve member. The sealing member is deformed and compressed by the pipe as it is inserted so as to provide its required sealing effect.The teeth of this spring washer are then deflected axially inwardly of the sleeve member i.e. the direction of their original inclination by the passage of the pipe. Any subsequent attempt to remove the pipe will tend to straighten the deflected teeth of the spring washer which will therefore bite into the pipe and resist outward movement of the pipe. The invention includes within its scope joints formed in this manner. The sleeve member may be part of a pipe fitting of the kind mentioned earlier or may be a double ended sleeve having internal recesses, spring washers, inserts, and sealing members at each end so as to provide a coupling.member as such between to pipes or pipe like members. In order that the invention may be more readily understood one embodiment thereof will now be described by way of example with reference to the accompanying drawing which is a sectional elevation of a joint illustrating a coupling in accordance with the invention. The joint shown in the figure is intended for use with, for example a hot water pipe work system and includes a pipe 1 of cross linked polyethylene, and a coupling including a sleeve member 2 of the same material. The coupling and sleeve members typically may comprise one arm of a T connector coupling. The sleeve member 2 is provided with an annular internal recess 3 extending from the open end of the sleeve member. It is to be noted that the annular recess 3 is of a stepped configuration having two separate internal diameters. The axially innermost portion of the recess 3 from the open end of the sleeve has a lesser internal diameter and carries a stainless steel spring washer 4.The washer 4 has radially inwardly extending teeth 5 which project inwardly of the internal wall 6 of the sleeve member 2. The axially outer portion of the annular recess 3 from the open end of the sleeve carries an annular insert 7 formed of cross linked polyethylene. It is to be observed that the internal diameter of the annular insert 7 corresponds to that of the sleeve 2 so that the internal wall of the annular insert is flush with the internal wall 6 of the sleeve member 2. The annular insert is also provided with a radially outwardly directed flange portion 8 thereby providing an axial end wall to the sleeve 2. An internal annular groove 9 is provided within the annular insert 7 within which is mounted a sealing member 10 in the form of a 0 ring of a rubber resistant to the effects of hot water such as an ethylene propylene copolymer rubber. The coupling illustrated is assembled firstly by inserting the washer 4 within the annular recess 3, fitting the annular insert member into place within the recess 3 prior to cross linking , fusing the insert in place within the sleeve 2 by a known fusion technique, and then polymer cross linking the assembly in known manner. Finally the 0 ring 10 is push located into its groove 9 within the annular insert 7. As can be seen from the figure, the pipe 1 is a sliding fit within sleeve 2 and annular insert 7. When fitted within the sleeve 2, the pipe compresses the sealing member 10 from its normal circular cross section thereby effecting a normal compression seal. Movement of the pipe 1 inwardly axially of the coupling past the teeth 5 of the washer 4 has resulted in the pipe being scored as indicated at 11. Any attempt to remove the pipe 1 from the sleeve 2 in the position indicated in the figure will tend to straighten the teeth 5 which will thereby bite further into the pipe 1 resisting removal thereof. Although pipe 1 is shown formed wholly of polyethylene, it will be appreciated that the embodiment of the invention illustrated is equally applicable with, for example, polyethylene pipe having an internal metal liner. The arrangement hereinabove illustrated in accordance with the present invention has the advantage that there is no interference between the sealing ring 10 and the washer member 4 which could under certain working conditions affect the satisfactory functioning of the joint. In addition we have found that the provision of an accurate annular groove or cavity for the sealing member 10 ensures a consistent sealing surface between the pipe 1 and the ring 10. Yet again an advantage of the embodiment of the invention hereinabove described and illustrated is the considerable surface area of fusion between the insert member 7 and the sleeve 2, leading to a considerable strength in the arrangement without increasing outside dimensions of the coupling.