# Safety device for door.

## Abstract
A safety device for doors is to enable e.g. a hotel bedroom door to be locked independently of the conventional lock already provided on that door. It comprises a steel plate 10 to extend between the door 20 edge and the adjacent frame 30 part, with a first abutment 12 to engage the frame 30 and a second abutment 22 which is slidable on the plate 10 , with stop means 26 engageable with the plate 10 to fix the second abutment 22 in position and hence hold the door 20 closed.

## Claims
CLAIt S 1. , safety device for a door comprising a member having a unitary first abutment to engage one part of a door frame, a detachable second abutment to engage the opposite face of the door, and a stop which is engagable xrith said member and which serves to prevent detachment of the second abutirnt and hence hold the door closed. 2. A device as claimed in Claim 1 wherein said member comprises a steel plate and the unitary first abutment projects from the plate at one end thereof tile detachable second abutment comprising a part which is slidable along the length of said steel plate and the second abutr.lent per se extends in the direction oppcsite to that of the first abutment. 3. A safety device as claimed in Clain 2 wherein said plate is provided with a series of spaced apertures in any of which the stop is engageable to limit sliding movelnent of said second abutment. 4. A safety device as clained in Clain 3 wherein said apertures are elongated slots and the stop member is a wedge having a maximum dimension greater than the length of the slots. 5. A safety device as claimed in Claim 4 wherein said second abutment is provided with a recess to accommodate the edge stop member during storage and transportation. G. A safety device substantially as described.

## Description
DESCRIPTIO SAFETY DEVICE FOR DOOR This invention relates to safety devices for use with doors and door frances, and has for its object to provide a compact and portable device which may be used for exan.ple by the occupant of a hotel hedroom to provide a degree of security and safety, additional to that provided by the usual door lock. In accordance with the invention a safety device fcr a door comprises a member having a unitary first abutment to engage one part of a door frame, a detachable second abutment to engage tile Opposite face of the door, and a stop which is engageable with said nerber and which serves to prevent detachment of the second abutment and hence hold the door closed. Cne presently preferred embodiment of the invention is now ore particularly described with reference to the accompanying drawings wherein Figure 1 is a perspective view of a safety device Figure 2 is a fragmentary sectional plan view s hcaw i ng the device in the course of installation Figure 3 is a view similar to Figure 2 but showing the device completely installed and Figure 4 is a view showing the device in a storage or transport condition. Preferring nov. to the drawings, the devic comprises three components. Firstly there is a render 10 in the forn of a generally flat plate provided 57ith an abutment 12 projecting from the plate conveniently at one end of the plate. The abutment 12 rray he of such dimensions as to enter into the latch accornodating recess of the keeper plate mounted on the dcor frame with which the device is to be used. The plate is formed with a series of generally parallel slots such as 14, 16 and 18 each of which is of a length slightly less than th maximum width dimension D as hereinafter described. The second component of the device comprises a second abutment 22 which is unitary with a part 24 arranged to be a sliding fit on and along the plate and the abutment 22 then projects generally parallel to the abutment 12 but in the opposite direction. The third component comprises a key or edge 26 which is conveniently pressed out of the material of the plate leaving aperture 28, and this key tapers along its length having the maximum dimensionD at one end as mentioned. In use, and as shown in Figure 2, the plate is located to project to the interior of the room which is to be secured and abutment 12 is located in the latch recess of the keeper attached to the door frame 30. The door 20 is then closed and the door latch 32 is received in the recess and holds the plate 10 in position. The second component is then threaded on to the plate and the abutment 22 is moved up against the inner face of the door. the ky 26 is passed throu one of the slots, and tlie one, selected will depend upon the dimension t etween the planes occupied by the first and second abutnents. The key wedges the second component in position and hence holds the door shut even if the latch is released from. the keeper. Finure 4 shows that the part 24 ray be made with a shallow recess cr joggled part 32 to allow the icy to he inserted between it and the plate 10 so as to hold the three components tcclether in store and transport. The device may be made of relatively small dimensions so as to he easily stowed in a jacket pocket.