# Process for preparing anti allergy naphthotriazoles.

## Abstract
Process for the preparation of compounds of the formula I CHEM and pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof wherein R1, R2, R3 and R4 which may be the same or different, represent hydrogen, halogen, nitro, lower alkyl or lower alkoxy, where lower means of up to six carbon atoms, or any adjacent two of R1 to R4 taken together represent an alkylene group containing from 3 to 5 carbon atoms or a 1,4 buta 1,3 dienylene group, by removing an N protecting group Q from a compound of formula II CHEM d

## Claims
Claims 1. A process for the preparation of a compound of the formula I EMI8.1 or a. pharmaceiitically acceptable salt thereof wherein R1, R2, R3 and R4 which may be the same or different represent hydrogen, halogen, nitro, lower alkyl or lower alkoxy, where lower means of up to six carbon atoms or any adjacent two of R1 to R4 taken together represent an alkylene group containing from 3 to 5 carbon atoms or a 1,4 butà 1,3 dienylene group, characterised by i deprotecting a compound of formula II EMI8.2 wherein Q is a N protecting group at N l or N 3 and the other variables are as defined and optionally thereafter salifying the compound of the formula I so formed. 2. A process according to claim 1, characterised in that Q is 4 methoxybenzyl. 3. A process according to claim 1 or 2, characterised in that Q is removed by acid catalysis. 4. A process according to claim 3, characterised in that acid used is trifluoroacetic acid. 5. A process according to any one of claims 1 to 4, characterised in that R1 and R4 are hydrogen and R2 and R3 are the same or different and are methyl, ethyl or n propyl. 6. A process according to claim 5, characterised in that the compound of the formula I is 4,9 dihydro 6, 7 dimethyl 4,9 dioxo lH naphtho 2,3 d v triazole. 7. A process according to claim 5, characterised in that the process is for the preparation of the sodium salt of the compound of claim 6. 8. A compound of the formula II EMI9.1 wherein Q is a N protecting group at N l or N 3 and the other variables are as defined. 9. A compound according to claim 8, characterised in that Q is 4 methoxy,2,4 dimethoxybenzyl or 2,4,6 trimethoxybenzyl.

## Description
PROCESS FOR PREPARING ANTI ALLERGY COMPOUNDS This invention relates to a process for preparing anti allergy compounds. European Patent Application No. 78300485.6 published 13t June, 1979 and allowed US Patent Application Serial No.953,464 disclose that compounds of the formula I EMI1.1 and pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof whereinR1, R2, R3 and R4 which may be the same or different represent hydrogen, halogen, nitro, lower alkyl or lower alkoxy, where lower means of up to six carbon atoms or any adjacent two of R1 to R4 taken together represent an alkylene group containing from 3 to 5 carbon atoms or a 1,4 buta 1,3 dienylene group, are of value in the prophylaxis of diseases in which the symptoms are controlled by mediators of the allergic response.Examples of such diseases include bronchial asthma, rhinitis, hayfever and allergic eczema. These European and US Patent Applications also describe a process for the preparation of the compounds of the formula I . A new process for the preparation of the compounds of the formula I has now been discovered. Accordingly, the present invention provides a process for the preparation of a compound of the formula I as hereinbefore defined, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, which process comprises deprotecting a compound of formula II EMI2.1 wherein Q is a N protecting group at N l or N 3 and the other variables are as defined. Suitable examples of Q groups are labile benzyl groups such as C16 alkoxy substituted benzyl groups, for example 4 methoxybenzyl, 2,4 dimethoxybenzy or 2,4,6 trimethoxybenzyl. Such Q protecting groups may be removed from a compound of the formula II in any convenient manner, for example by acid catalysis. It is preferable to use the t methoxybenzyl protecting group which is readily removed using trifluoroacetic acid, the course of the cleavage being followed by NMR spectroscopy. Suitably temperatures of around 20 800C can be used, with a suitable reaction time being around 3 4 hours. Other strong acids such as methanesulphonic acid behave similarly. Compounds of the formula II , which as novel intermediates form an important part of this invention, may be prepared by reacting a compound of the formula III EMI3.1 with an azide QN3. It will be appreciated from the foregoing that a particularly preferred azide will be 4 methoxybenzyl azide. This reaction may be carried out by reaction of the compound of formula III with the azide at temperatures between 30 and 800C, preferably 500C, in a suitable organic solvent such as N,N dimethylformamide DMF ethyl acetate or toluene. Preferably DMF is the solvent, more preferably ethyl acetate. The reaction time is dependent on the solvent and temperature but is usually in the order of 3 24 hours. With unsymmetrical quinones a mixture of N l and N 3 benzyl naphthotriazoles will usually be formed. These may be sepa may be separated by conventional techniques such as column chromatography if required or deprotection as a mixture to give a single N H naphthotriazole as a common product. It will be appreciated that although it is believed that the process of this invention is applicable to the preparation of any compound of the formula I , it will be especially useful in the preparation of compounds of the formula I that we stated in the European and US Patent Applications to be of particular interest. Such compounds are as follows One group is that in which at least one of R1 to R4 is hydrogen and the remainder are as previously defined.An example of such a compound is 4,9 dihydro 6,7 dimethyl 5 nitro 4,9 dioxo lH naphtho2, 3 d triazole. A further group is one where two of R1 to R4 are hydrogen and the remainder are as previously defined. An example of such a compound is 4, 9 dihydro 5 , 6 dimethyl 4 , 9 dioxo lH naphtho 2,3 d triazole. One preferred sub group of compounds of formula I is that in which Rl and R4 are hydrogen and and R3, which may be the same or different, represent methyl, ethyl or n propyl. In the European and US Patent Applications the compound 4, 9 dihydro 6 , 7 dimethyl 4 , 9 dioxo lH naphtho 2,3 d v triazole, and its salts especially its sodium salt are highlighted. In a preferred embodiment of this invention the process is adapted for the preparation of this compound, or of its salts. This adaptation is readily achieved by use of a compound of formula II whereinR1 and R4 are hydrogen, and R2 and R3 are both methyl. As disclosed in the European and US Patent Applications, the triazole moiety of the compounds of formula I has an acidic hydrogen, and accordingly may form salts, including pharmaceutically acceptable salts. These include aluminium, alkali metal and alkaline earth metal salts such as the sodium, potassium and magnesium salt and salts with organic bases such as amines or amino compounds including physiologically active amines such as ephedrine. The sodium and . ephedrine salts are preferred Salts may be made by conventionally reacting the compound of the formula I with the relevant metal or oxide or a base or basic salt thereof as appropriate or with the relevant base as appropriate. Salts may be interconverted by passage through a suitable ion exchange column. The following Examples illustrate the process of this invention Example 1 a 4, 9 Dihydro 6 ,7 dimethyl 4,9 dioxo l 6 methoxybenzyl naphtho 2,3 3 v triazole D.1 6,7 Dimethylnaphtho 1,4 quinone 2.0 g, 0.0108 mole and p methoxybenzyl azide 0.49 g, 0.030 mole were dissolved in DMF 25 ml and the mixture stirred at 500C for 18 hours. The mixture was cooled and the DMF removed using a rotary film evaporator.The brown residue 2.7 g was chromatographed on silica gel Merck 7729 eluting with 3 7 chloroform light petroleum 600 800 to give 0.157 g 15.3 of the title compound 0 Mpt 178 9 Analysis Calculated C, 69.16 H, 4.93 N, 12.1 Found C, 68.45 H, 4,83 N, 11.99 Nmr 6 CDC13 8.1 s, lH 8.0 s, lH 7.55 d, 2H 6.9 d, 2H 6.0 s, 2H 2.4 s, 6H . The same reaction effected in ethyl acetate resulted in a 42 yield of the title compound. b Deprotection of D.1 with trifluoroacetic acid to give 4, 9 dihydro 6 , 7 dimethyl 4 , 9 dioxo lH naphtho 2,3 d v triazole. 4,9 Dihydro 6,7 dimethyl 4,9 dioxo l p methoxybenzylnaphtho 2,3 d v triazole 155 mg, 0.45 mole was dissolved in trifluoroacetic acid TFA 5 ml . After 8 hours at 25 the solution was diluted with an equal volume of water when a solid precipitated, this was filtered off and discarded.The aqueous TFA liquors were treated with more water 30 ml which yielded another precipitate. This was filtered off and dried to give the title compound as its monohydrate 64 mg, 60.8 , Mpt 239 450 physical data identical to authentic material cf EP 78300485.6 or USSN 953,464 . Example 2 a 49 Dihydro 49 dioxo l 4 methoxybenzyl naphthot2t3 d v triazole D.2 1,4 Naphthoquinone 1.20g, 0.0075 mole and 4 methoxybenzylazide 0.40g,0.0025 mole were dissolved in ethyl acetate 50ml and the mixture ref fluxed for five hours and then cooled overnight. The solution was shaken with a solution of ferric chloride O.5g in 50ml of O.2N HC1 . The ethyl acetate was separated, washed with water lx50ml , dried and evaporated. The residue was purified by chromatography on silica gel,gradient eluting with ethyl acetate light petrol b.p. 60 800. Naphthoquinone was recovered first 0.710g, 59.2 followed by the title compound 0.431 g, 55.1 Mpt 1940 NMR CDC13 6 3.8 s, 3H, OCH3 5.96 s, 2H, PhCH2 7.2 AB, dd, J 9Hz, Ev 54Hz, 4H 7.8 m, 2H 8.3 m, 2H, C5 C8H s . b Deprotection of 4,9 dihydro 4,9 dioxo 1 4 methoxybenzyl naphtho 2,3 d v triazole with trifluoroacetic acid to give 4,9 dihydro 4,9 dioxo 1H naphtho 2,3 d v triazole. 4,9 Dihydro 4,9 dioxo 1 4 methoxybenzyl naphtho 2,3 d v triazole 0.025g was dissolved in trifluoroacetic acid 2ml and the solution heated to 500. After 5 hours the mixture was cooled and the solvent evaporated. The residue was treated with hydrochloric acid 5N,5ml and the mixture again evaporated to dryness. This residue was taken up in a mixture bf ethyl acetate 5 ml and sodium hydroxide solution N, 5 ml . After shaking the phases were separated and the ethyl acetate layer was extracted with water 3 ml . The combined aqueous phases were acidified to pH 1 with hydrochloric acid and extracted with ethyl acetate 2 x 11 ml .The organic layers were combined, dried and evaporated to yield l,4 dihydro l,4 dioxonaphtho t2,3 d v triazole 0.014 g, 89.7 Mpt 2500, NMR identical to authentic material Mpt 2500 cf EP 78300485.6 or USSN 953,464.