# The preparation of graft copolymers, poly vinyl chloride compositions containing them and reactors useful in preparing them.

## Abstract
Polymers useful as impact modifiers for poly vinyl chloride are prepared by grafting, in a melt reaction, mono mer comprising at least 50 by weight methyl methacrylate to one or more polymers of ethylene, not including high density polyethylene. A preferred extruder process for prepar ing the modifiers is disclosed. The invention also extends to blends of poly vinylchloride and impact modifing polymer of monomer comprising at least 50 by weight of methyl methacrylate grafted onto the ethylene polymer s and to the preferred extruder reactor having a melt zone 27 separate zone 12 for monomer addition, separate and downstream therefrom, a zone 20 for initiator addition, separate and downstream therefrom, a reaction zone 22 and separate and downstream therefrom a devolatilisation zone 23 . The modi fiers of the invention.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A process for producing a graft copolymer which comprises a introducing one or more polymers of ethylene, not including high density polyethylene, into a melt reactor, b introducing monomer comprising at least 50 by weight methyl methacrylate, and c polymerizing the monomer in the presence of catalyst and a melt of the polymer s under such conditions as to cause graft polymerization, but in the absence of solvent which dissolves or swells the polymer. 2. A process as claimed in Claim 1 wherein the polymer s comprise one or more of the following ethylene propylene copolymers, ethylene propylene diene terpolymers, ethylene vinyl acetate copolymers, ethylene ethyl acrylate copolymers, and mixtures of ethylene propylene copolymer s and low density polyethylene polymer s . 3. A process as claimed in Claim 1 wherein the melt reactor is an extruder reactor. 4. A process as claimed in Claim 3 wherein the extruder reactor is a twin screw counter rotating, tangential extruder having a monomer addition zone, a separate initiator addition zone downstream of the monomer addition zone, and a separate reaction zone. 5. A process as claimed in Claim 4 wherein the monomer addition zone comprises a flighted screw section and is such that monomer addition takes place on full screws under full pressure, but not under high shear. 6. A process as claimed in any preceding claim wherein the ratio of monomer added to polymer is 5 95 to 50 50 by weight. 7. A process as claimed in any preceding. claim wherein the catalyst is present in an amount of 0.01 to 4 by weight based on monomer. 8. A process as claimed in any preceding claim wherein the catalyst comprises 2,5 dimethyl 2,5 di tbutoxyhexyne 3. 9. A process as claimed in any preceding claim wherein the reaction temperature is 1000C to 225 0C. 10. A process as claimed in Claim 9 wherein the temperature is 1500C to 2000C. 11. A composition comprising polyvinyl cnloride and impact modifying polymer of monomer comprising at least 50 by weight grafted onto one or more polymers of ethylene not including high density polyethylene. 12. A composition as claimed in Claim 11 wherein the impact modifying polymer has been made by a process as claimed in any of Claims 1 to 10. 13. An extruder reactor comprising an extruder having a melt zone 27 , a separate zone 12 for monomer addition, separate and downstream therefrom, a zone 20 for initiator addition, separate and downstream therefrom, a reaction zone 22 and separable and downstream therefrom a devolatilsation zone 23 . 14. An extruder as claimed in Claim 13 wherein the monomer addition zone 12 has at least one flighted screw such that, in use, the monomer addition takes place on full screws under full pressure but not under high shear 15. An extruder as claimed in Claim 13 or 14 which is a twin screw counter rotating tangential extruder.

## Description
THE PREPARATION OF GRAFT COPOLYMERS, POLY VINYL CHLORIDE COMPOSITIONS CONTAINING THEM AND REACTORS USEFUL IN PREPARING THEM.This invention is concerned with the preparation of graft copolymers. In the invention a melt graft polymerisation process is used and the copolymers prepared are suitable for impact modification of poly vinylchloride and other vinylchloride polymers, referred to collectively herein as PVC.Conventional impact modifiers for PVC are multiple stage polymers having a butadiene or a methyl acrylate or ethyl acrylate first stage, and methyl methacrylate, acrylonitrile and or styrene in one or more subsequent stages. U.S. Patents 2,892,809 2,943,074 3,251,904 teach typical modifiers.Chlorinated polyethylene and ethylene vinyl acetate have also been shown to be useful, see Encyclopedia of Polymer Science and Technology, under ImpactResistance, PVC and Plasty a Kaucuk 13, 129 and 193 1976 and Plastics Technology, July 1975, page 48.Each of these prior modifiers suffer from one or more disadvantages in the area of weatherability, impact efficiency, compoundability, processability into blends with PVC or properties of blends with PVC.Steinkamp et al., in U.S. Patent 3,862,265, show improvements to polyolefins in flow and adhesion by a controlled reaction, often involving degradation, in an extruder in which initiator is injected under conditions of either maximum distribution or intensive mixing wherein appreciable rheological, i.e. molecular weight distribution, changes in said base polymer occur. In some embodiments monomers are also grafted during the degradation process. The extruder reactors shown by Steinkamp have a first polymer addition and melting zone, a second zone for monomer and initiator addition and reaction, and a third zone for vacuum devolatilization and extrusion or removal of product.In the second zone, the mixing is highly intensive in a very short period of time. Materials can be added prior to the reaction zone, become mixed by extruder action, and thence conveyed to the reaction zone where they are available to participate in the reaction. Steinkamp does not show graft polymers which are useful as impact modifiers for PVC.Nowak et al., in U.S. Patent 3,177,269 teach an extruder grafting process using an olefinic polymer substrate and grafting thereto acrylic acid, methacrylic acids, or mixtures thereof. The graft polymer is recovered by use of an inert solvent, and is used as a molding resin.Jones et al., in U.S. Patent 3,177,270, teach a process similar to Nowak, supra, except using monovinyl aromatic compounds as the grafting monomer.Fournier et al., in Canadian Patent 1,003,145 teach a process of preparing graft polymers by solution polymerization in inert solvent wherein a resin forming monomer is grafted to a rubbery copolymer of at least two alpha monolefins such as ethylene propylene copolymers or ethylene propylene diene terpolymers.The resin forming monomer can be styrene, vinyl chloride, methyl methacrylate, or other monomers or mixed monomers. The graft is isolated by precipitation with methanol, and is used as an impact modifier for certain plastics suchas styrene methyl styrene, styrene methacrylic acid, styrene methyl methacrylate and styrene acrylonitrile.Other prior art of interest is U.K. PatentSpecifications 1,119,629 and 1,158,980.This invention provides a process for producing graft copolymer which comprises a introducing one or more polymers of ethylene, not including high density polyethylene into a melt reactor, b introducing monomer comprising at least 50 by weight methyl methacrylate MMA , and c polymerizing the monomer in the presence of catalyst and a melt of the polymer s under such conditions as to cause graft polymerization, but in the absence of solvent which dissolves or swells the polymer.Graft polymers can be made by the process of the invention which all weatherable, highly efficient, modifiers for PVC with which they are readily compatible.In other words we have found that ethylene polymers, which are normally incompatible with PVC by ordinary mixing techniques and because of this incompatibility form polyblends with PVC which are non uniform in appearance and non resistant to impact, can be compatibilized with PVC by grafting them with methyl methacrylate, for example by the melt reaction of the invention, to form polyblends which are highly impact resistant, and weather resistant as well.Suitable ethylene polymers are ethylene propylene copolymer EP , ethylene vinyl acetate copolymer EVAc , ethylene ethyl acrylate copolymer EEA , low density polyethylene LDPE , ethylene propylene diene terpolymer EPDM , and other polymers of ethylene, but high density polyethylene HDPE is not suitable and should not be included. These copolymers are readily available as commercial products.Apart from the methylmethacrylate the monomer can contain other monoethylenically unsaturated monomer, for example vinyl monomer such as vinyl acetate, other methacrylate than the methyl ester, styrene and substituted styrenes, C1 to C6 alkyl acrylates, acrylic and methacrylic acids, acrylonitrile, vinyl chlrodie, maleic anhydride and other copolymerizable monoethylenically unsaturated monomers too numerous to mention.The selection of comonomers should be restricted, however, to these types and amounts which do not detract from the impact modification efficiency attained when using methyl methacrylate alone as the grafting monomer. One particular monomer system is a mixture of MMA and vinyl acetate in a 90 10 ratio, but all MMA is preferred from a convenience standpoint.This invention therefore also extends to PVC compositions containing impact modifying polymer of monomer comprising at least 50 by weight grafted onto one or more polymers of ethylene not including high density polyethylene.Any melt reactor device which is capable of melt masticating polymer,receiving and thoroughly mixing monomer and initiator before and or during the initiation of polymerization of said monomer, and finally removing excess monomer via a devolatilizing procedure, is suitable. For example, an extruder, a sigma mixer, aBrabender, can be used. However, an extruder has been found to be a highly preferred melt reactor device, and especially certain specific types of extruder reactors have been found to be advantageous. The invention extends to most extruder reactors having at least five zones a polymer melt zone, a monomer addition zone, a separate initiator addition zone subsequent tb the monomer addition zone, a separate reacting zone, and a separate devolitalization zone the extruder being most preferably of the counter rotating tangential twin screw type.It is preferable that the monomer addition zone be a flighted section where in monomer addition takes place on full screws under full pressure, but not under high shear.In accordance with a preferred method of the invention, referring to the accompanying drawing, which is a sectional elevational view of the extruder cavity but a side elevational view of an extruder screw as a suitable extruder reactor, polymer to be grafted is introduced to the extruder through a suitable feed port 11, melted and conveyed to the monomer addition zone 12 which is bounded on its proximal and distal ends by non flighted tight fitting segments 18 and 19. Segment 19 could suitably alternatively be flighted or even reverse flighted. The constraints placed upon these screw segments which define the beginning and end of the monomer addition zone are only those which are necessary effectively to restrain the passage of monomer and polymer from the monomer addition zone into the next extruder zone until said monomer and polymer are intimately mixed.Passing from the monomer addition zone 12, the monomerpolymer mix is conveyed into an initiator addition zone 20, the proximal and distal ends of which are bounded likewise by segments 19 and 25 which restrict movement of monomer polymer and initiator until thorough and uniform blending of these materials has occurred. It is possible that some decomposition of initiator to radical fragments occurs in this zone, but the bulk of the reaction occurs in the next zone 22 which is the reaction zone, typically but not necessarily, the largest of the zones.This reaction zone is similarly bounded on its ends by tight fitting sections 25 and 26 which prohibit back mixing into the preceding zone or escape of volatiles into the next zone 23 which serves as the devolatilization zone where excess monomer is removed through vacuum vent 14 so that the grafted product is obtained with in strand form at the die purification step necessary.The five zone grafting extruder system described herein is a distinct improvement over many prior art systems as it has safety advantages. Since initiator never has access to large amounts of heated monomer, in the case of breakdown or power failure a runaway reaction is avoided. Also the danger of the monomer addition line being plugged because of polymer formation in the addition line itself, at or near the addition port nozzle, is minimised. Another advantage is that once the mix of monomer, polymer, and initiator enters the reaction zone, the temperature of the mix is high enough to produce extensive free radical decomposition and commence grafting of monomer to polymer, assisting formation of a uniform product.The following non limiting Examples 1 to 18 and 20 to 22 are presented to illustrate some embodiments of the invention. Example 19 is comparative. All parts and percentages are by weight unless otherwise indicated.EXAMPLE 1An ethylene propylene EP copolymer was fed at a rate of 25 g. minute into a counter rotating, tangential, twin screw extruder, having a cavity as illustrated in the drawing. The polymer was added at polymer addition port 11, and fluxed and conveyed across an unflighted tight fitting compounding screw segment 16 into a monomer addition zone 12 bounded on its distal end by another cylindrical compounding section 19.In this addition zone methyl methacrylate uninhibited was added commat 50 cc. minute via addition port 15.Mixing of polymer and monomer occurred and the mixture passed over a cylindrical compounder 19 into an initiator mix zone 20 where initiator in toluene solution 25 g. 2,5 dimethyl 2, 5 di t butylperoxy hexyne 3 Lupersol 130 diluted to 1 liter with toluene was added via part13 commat 8 cc. minute . Mixing of the three components polymer, monomer, and intiator solution continued until the mix passed over a double compounding section 25 cylindrical and double reverse compounders in tandem , into a lengthy reaction zone 22 which itself contained many tight compounding sections designed in these cases not to form separate and distinct additive mixing zones but rather to bring about continued and thorough mixing of the reactants throughout the reaction zone. The material finally passed into a devolatilizing zone 23 where excess volatiles were removed via port 14.For every 100 g. of polymer fed to the extruder, 140 g. of graft product was obtained at die 24. The temperature of reaction was set at 1750C.EXAMPLE 2As example 1, replacing 100 EP polymer with a mixture 25 75 of EP LDPE. Each 100 g. of polymer fed yielded 130 g. of product.EXAMPLE 3As example 1, replacing 100 EP polymer with a mixture 75 25 of EP LDPE. Each 100 g. of polymer fed yielded 133 g of product.EXAMPLE 4As example 1, using ethylene vinyl acetate 91E 9VA in place of EP rubber. Each 100 g of polymer fed yielded 119 g.of product.EXAMPLE 5As example 1, substituting 100 EP rubber with 75 parts EVA 91E 9VA and 25 parts EP. Each 100 g. of polymer fed yielded 116 g of product.EXAMPLE 6As example 1, substituting 100 EP rubber with 25 parts EVA 91D 9VA and 75 parts EP. Each 100 g of polymer fed yielded 118 g of product.EXAMPLE 7As example 1, replacing 100 EP copolymer with EVA 95E 5VA . Each 100 g of polymer fed yielded 133 g of product.EXAMPLE 8As example 1, replacing 100 EP copolymer with a blend of 75 parts LDPE and 25 parts EP. Each 100 g of polymer fed yielded 133 g of product.EXAMPLE 9As example 1, replacing 100 EP copolymer with a mixture of 25 parts LDPE and 75 parts EP. Each 100 g of polymer fed yielded 133 g of product.EXAMPLE 10To a three quart working capacity sigma mixer Teledyne Readco whose temperature was controlled by aHAAKE circulating oil bath set at 150 C was charged 1200 g. of EP rubber. When temperature of the mixer had reached 1000C, 314 g. of MMA uninhibited monomer containing 8.6 g. of Lupersol 130 was added all at once and the mixer sealed. The mixer was operated at 75 RPM s throughout the reaction procedure.The monomer polymer mix was masticated and well blended while the temperature of the reactor rose to 1300C.At that time, 2.9 g. of t butylperoctoate in 86 g.of MMA uninhibited monomer was added to the reaction chamber via a Lapp pump. Addition was complete in 14 minutes toluene was used to clean the lines up to the reactor to assure that all initiator solution was added to the reactor and no initiated monomer remained in the addition lines . A very rapid exotherm accompanied the addition of the low temperature initiator system. Peak temperature was 175 0C after about twenty minutes. One hundred minutes after addition was complete the reactor temperature was 1550C. The reactor was evacuated to remove unreacted monomer.One thousand, five hundred and seven 1507 grams of polymer were obtained. EXAMPLE 11 As example 1, using an initiator solution containing l octene as a grafting aid 25 g. of Lupersol 130 plus 50 g. of l octene diluted to 1 liter with toluene . EXAMPLE 12 As example 11 using a 95 parts MMA S parts hydroxyethylmethacrylate HEMA monomer feed. EXAMPLE 13 As example 11 using a 90 parts MMA 10 parts vinyl acetate. EXAMPLE 14 As example 11 using ethylene ethylacrylate as the grafting substrate. EXAMPLE 15 As example 1, using EPDM as the base polymer. EXAMPLE 16 As example 15, using 90 MMA lOVAc as the monomer system. EXAMPLE 17 As example 1, using LDPE as the polymer, and MMA as the grafting monomer. EXAMPLE 18 As example 1, adding calcium carbonate filler to the polymer feed port 11 along with the base polymer. EXAMPLE 19 Comparative A solution grafted EP g MMA was made by charging 40 g. of the same EP as used in Example 1 into a pressure bomb along with 493 g. of benzene solvent sealed and heated to 900C to yield a cement. To this cement after cooling to room temperature was added 62.5 g. of MMA and 1.225 g. of di t butylperoxide. The bomb was resealed, stirred and heated to 1250C overnight. The product graft was precipitated in MeOH in a Waring blender filter, concentrated on a rotary evaporator and dried in a vacuum oven. The graft polymer produced was formulated withPVC and compared with the analogous graft polymer of the invention. The results are reported in Example 22.The lower temperature impact efficiency of this comparative graft polymer prepared in accordance with the prior art was markedly lower.EXAMPLE 20As Example 1 employing a 90 methyl methacrylate 10 maleic anhydride monomer mix, and an ethylene ethyl acrylate feedstock polymer.EXAMPLE 21As Example 1 using a 25 EP 75 EVA blend as the polymer feed.EXAMPLE 22Performance of Various Grafts ln PVCGraft Type Example No. Formulation Notched Izod Impact ft lbs in. Room Temp. 16 C EP g MMA 1 1 17 EP g MMA 1 2 25 EP g MMA VA 13 1 18 EPDM g MMA 15 1 17 EPDM g MMA VA 16 1 18 EVA g MMA 7 3 21 EEA g MMA MAH 20 3 18 LDPE g MMA 17 4 21 25EP 75LDPE g MMA 2 4 21 25EP 75EVA g MMA 21 3 22 Comparative Extruder Graft vs.Solution Graft EP g MMA 1 3 24 22EP g MMA 19 3 23 14Comparative grafted Polymer EP 1 0.9 EPDM 1 0.9 These results demonstrate that the modifier of this invention made in Example 1 has substantially the same impact modification properties as the Comparative material at room temperature but that whereas the Comparatuve material falls away in performance at the lower temperature, indicating rapid embrittlement, the modifier of the invention retains its performance within normal experimental error . This coupled with the weatherability of saturated modifiers, such as those of the invention, which is known to be better in general than unsaturated monomers such as those based upon butadiene, indicates the advantageous properties of the modifiers of the invention. Formulations 1 100 PVC K 69 11 modifier 2.2 dibutyltin dioxide stabilizer. 2 100 PVC K 69 7 modifier 2 lubricating processing aid 2 stabilizer. 3 100 PVC K 69 8 modifier 2.4 acrylic processing aid 0.4 lubricant l ethylene bis stearamide 2 dibutyltin dioxide stabilizer 10 TiO2. 4 100 PVC K 69 4 modifier 2.4 acrylic processing aid 0.9 ubricant 1 ethylene bis stearamide l4 Tit2 2 dibutyltin dioxide stabilizer.