# A method and apparatus for testing the effectiveness of chemicals such as scale inhibitors or scale removers.

## Abstract
A method for testing the effectiveness and performance of chemicals in a scale forming liquid, in particular scale inhibitors, comprising the steps of supplying 1,2 the liquid through a test circuit 11 , measuring 5 and recording 7 continuously the inlet pressure to a test circuit 11 during a predetermined time, adding 3 subsequently the chemicals to be tested to the liquid, and at each addition measuring 5 and recording 7 continuously the pressure to the test circuit 11 . A method for testing chemicals such as scale removers in a scale forming liquid, comprising the steps of supplying 1,2 the liquid through a test circuit 11 and after scale has been deposited from the liquid, adding 3 suitable chemicals to the test circuit 11 and continuously measuring 5 and recording 7 the pressure decrease in the test circuit 11 . An apparatus for carrying out the above mentioned methods.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. An apparatus for testing the effectiveness and performance of chemicals, in particular scale inhibitors or scale removers characterized by at least one flow line, in which a test circuit is present, at least one means adapted to supply a constant flow of a scale forming liquid from a storage vessel to the test circuit through the flow line at a given flow rate, at least one means adapted to add chemicals to the liquid, at least one means adapted to measure continuously the inlet pressure to the test circuit during a predetermined time and means adapted to record the measured pressure values at a controlled temperature. 2. The apparatus as claimed in claim 1, characterized in that the test circuit is a capillary test tube. 3. The apparatus as claimed in claim 2, characterized in that the test tube is 1 m long and has an inside diameter of 1 mm. 4. The apparatus as claimed in any one of claims 1 3, characterized by a thermostatic bath, in which the test circuit is placed. 5. The apparatus as claimed in any one of claims 1 4, characterized by a means adapted to adjust the time during which the inlet pressure is measured and recorded. 6. A method for testing the effectiveness and performance of chemicals in a scale forming liquid, in particular scale inhibitors, characterized by the steps of supplying at a given flow rate the liquid through a flow line, in which a test circuit is placed, measuring and recording continuously the inlet pressure to the test circuit during a predetermined time at a controlled temperature, thus obtaining data which represent the tendency of scale forming of the liquid in the test circuit, adding subsequently the chemicals to be tested in successively different concentrations to the liquid, at each addition measuring and recording continuously the pressure to a predetermined length of the flow line, which length serves as the test circuit, at a controlled temperature during a predetermined time, thus obtaining a set of data which represent the tendency of scale forming of the liquid in the test circuit after the chemicals have been added. 7. The method as claimed in claim 6, characterized by the step of comparing the obtained results after adding chemicals with the data of the blank liquid, which data are reference data. 8. The method as claimed in claim 6 or 7, characterized in that a dosage of a chemical is added to the blank liquid to increase the scaling tendency of said liquid. 9. The method as claimed in claim 8, characterized in that a dosage of 50 mg l carbonate ions is added to the liquid. 10. The method as claimed in any one of claims 6 9, characterized in that the chemicals to be tested are successively added in concentrations in the range of 0 20 mg l. 11. A method for testing the effectiveness and performance of scale removers in a scale forming liquid, characterized by the steps of supplying at a given flow rate the liquid through a flow line, comprising a test circuit, subsequently removing scale in the test circuit after said scale has been deposited from the liquid, by adding suitable chemicals to the test circuit and at each addition continuously measuring and recording the pressure decrease in the test circuit, thus obtaining a set of data which represent the tendency of scaleremoving from the liquid. 12. The method as claimed in claim 11, characterized in that the added chemicals are crown ethers.

## Description
A METHOD AND APPARATUS FOR TESTING THE EFFECTIVENESS OF CHEMICALS SUCH AS SCALE INHIBITORS OR SCALE REMOVERS The invention relates to a method and apparatus for testing the effectiveness and performance of various chemicals which can be added to liquids to prevent undesired phenomena, such as deposits, which may occur in, for example, flow lines or equipment used in the boiler feed water industry, power plants, etc.under certain circumstances. The invention relates in particular to a method and apparatus for testing the effectiveness and performance of various scale inhibitors or scale removers. When a liquid flows through a flow line scale formation and deposition may occur in the flow line and scale could adhere to the flow line wall. The deposition of scales, in particular mineral scales, such asCaCO3, CaSO4 and BaSO4 from a scale forming liquid is a major problem in liquid consuming and or liquid producing processes.Serious damage is often caused by such scales to all kinds of equipment, including valves, heat exchangers, pumps, etc., which are used in said liquid consuming and or liquid producing processes. Scale inhibitors are widely applied in order to prevent scale formation and scale deposition from a scale forming liquid.Scale removers are applied to remove scale, which has been deposited from the liquid. Liquid consuming processes are for example carried out in oil fields. In particular a liquid, such as water, is consumed in large quantities, said water, for example, being used for water flooding in oil reservoirs. Water flooding is a known technique to improve the oil field product on and will not be described here in detail. Further, most oil fields produce not only oil, but also water. Waters used for water flooding just as produced oil field waters often form scale deposits in wells and flow lines. Some of the most serious problems due to scale formation in oil field systems are stuck downhole pumps, plugged well bores, plugged tubing strings and perforations, stuck valves, plugged flow lines, etc. At the moment these scale problems show up, it is usually too late for a simple cleaning job and costly repairs of sometimes complicated systems may be required. In practice, scale prevention is doneby the injection of various commercially available chemicals into the produced oil field water and or the water used for water flooding. Many chemical service companies are offering scale inhibitors for which they claim a certain performance. This performance, however, can only be verified after application in practice for some time and it is very difficult and timeconsuming to carry out in the field an evaluation of a number of scale inhibitors. So, testing the effectiveness and performance of scale inhibitors is therefore usually restricted to laboratory tests on model water systems. The object of the invention is providing a method for testing the effectiveness and performance of commercially available scale inhibitors and their compatibility with other chemicals, such as oxygen scavengers, demulsifiers, biocides on location to assist in the selection of the most effective chemicals. Another object of the invention is providing a compact apparatus for testing the performance of a number of commercially available scale inhibitors on location. Another object of the invention is providing an apparatus and a method for selection and ranking of available scale inhibitors and for reg ar quality control checks on chemicals. Another object cf the invention is providing a method and an apparatus for testing the effectiveness and performance of scale removers. The invention therefore relates to an apparatus for testing the effectiveness and performance of chemicals, in particular scale inhibitors or scale removers characterized by at least one flow line, in which a test circuit is present, at least one means adapted to supply a constant flow of a scale forming liquid from a storage vessel through the flow line at a given flow rate, at least one means adapted to add chemicals to the liquid, at least one means adapted to measure continuously the inlet pressure to the test circuit during a predetermined time and means adapted to record the measured pressure values, at a controlled temperature. The invention further relates to a method for testing the effectiveness and performance of chemicals in a scale forming liquid, in particular scale inhibitors, characterized by the steps of supplying at a given flow rate the liquid through a flow line, in which a test circuit is placed, measuring and recording continuously the inlet pressure to the test circuit during a predetermined time at a controlled temperature, thus obtaining data, which indicate the tendency of scale forming of the liquid in the test circuit, adding subsequently the chemicals to be tested in successively different concentrations to the liquid, at each addition measuring and recording continuously the pressure to a predetermined length of the flow line, which length serves as the test circuit, at a controlled temperature during a predetermined time, thus obtaining a set of data which indicate the tendency of scale forming of the liquid in the test circuit after the chemicals have been added. The invention further relates to a method for testing the effectiveness and performance of scale removers in a scaleforming liquid characterized by the steps of supplying at a given flow rate the liquid through a flow line, comprising a test circuit, subsequently removing scale in the test circuit after said scale has been deposited from the liquid, by adding suitable chemicals to the test circuit and at each addition continuously measuring and recording the pressure decrease in the test circuit, thus obtaining a set of data which represent the tendency of scale removing from the liquid. By application of the technique according to the invention commercially available scale inhibitors and scale removers can be tested and ranked in the field in a simple, reliable and cheap manner. The invention is based upon the measurement of the rate of plugging of a test circuit by scale deposition and adherence to the test circuit wall. The test circuit is a part of a flow line and has, for example, a metal wall or a glass wall. In pumping a liquid through a flow line a certain pressure drop exists over a predetermined part of the flow line which serves as the test circuit. This pressure drop is known, because the inlet pressure to the test circuit is measured and the outlet pressure of the test circuit is atmospheric. When water flows through a flow line at a given flow rate without using a scale inhibitor, scale for example CACAO scale 3 is formed in the test circuit and could adhere to the circuit wall. The inside diameter of the test circuit will subsequently be reduced, which results in an increase in pressure drop across the test circuit. According to the invention the pressure to the inlet of the test circuit is measured continuously and the measured pressure is recorded during a predetermined time, giving the change in pressure drop across the test circuit. Said predetermined time may be adjusted by means of a time adjuster. The predetermined time may be set arbitrarily. The results of the pressure measurements and recordings and the time adjustments are represented in any suitable manner. This may be done for example in a graphical manner which results in a pressure drop versus time curve. The only criterion taken is whether an inlet pressure increase can be noticed or not. The time required to build up a certain pressure drop represents the tendency of scale forming and deposition in the liquid. When a certain dosage of a scale inhibitor having a predetermined concentration is injected along with the water, the pressure build up is retarded or completely absent. Again the inlet pressure is measured and recorded continuously during a predetermined time and represented for example in a pressure drop versus time curve. The time required to build up a certain pressure drop compared with the data obtained for the scaleforming liquid gives a reliable indication of the effectiveness of the scale inhibitor. The longer the time, the better the scale inhibitor at given test conditions.This procedure is repeated for a plurality of different concentrations of the said scale inhibitor and subsequently for a plurality of scale inhibitors at various concentrations and the obtained pressure drop versus time curves at various concentrations of scale inhibitors are found to be related to the effectiveness of the chemical added. To compare inhibitive performances of the various chemicals it is necessary to use a blank liquid, i.e. a well defined liquid with reproducible scaling performance within a certain time, said blank liquid should be the same liquid, to which the scale inhibitors are added. For this purpose tap water may be used. Other suitable blank scale forming waters may be used, for example artificial sea water. To achieve a distinct pressure build up within a certain time the scaling tendency of these blank test waters involved may be increased by addition of a certain dosage of scale forming ions, for example carbonate ions. When a scale inhibitor has proven to be effective at a certain dosage rate, it is possible to investigate other chemicals with respect to their compatibility with the scale inhibitor by injecting those chemicals at the same time. The present invention will now be described by way of example in more detail with reference to the drawings, in which fig. 1a shows schematically an example of the apparatus according to the invention fig. 1b shows schematically another example of the apparatus according to the invention fig. 2 represents a pressure drop versus time curve showing the scaling tendency of two suitable test waters fig. 3 represents a pressure drop versus time curve, representing the influence of addition of a certain scale inhibitor having a predetermined concentration to the test waters, which are used in the apparatus as represented in figs. la and ib fig. 4 shows a similar curve as was shown in fig. 3, but in this example a higher concentration of scale inhibitor was added fig. 5 shows a similar curve as was shown in fig. 3 and fig. 4, but in this example a higher concentration of scale inhibitor was added than in case of fig. 4 fig. 6 shows a pressure drop increase versus concentration inhibitor curve, representing the pressure drop increase after 4 hours testing in tap water. Referring now to fig. 1a an apparatus for testing scale inhibitors or scale removers is shown schematically. From a suitable storage vessel 1 water is pumped by any suitable pump 2 into a flow line at a flow rate of 1.6 l h. By means of a chemical dosage pump 3 chemicals in various concentrations such as scale inhibitors or scale removers, can be added to the water. To achieve a good mixing intensity between the chemical to be tested and the scale forming liquid an inline magnetic stirrer 4 is installed in the flow line. The pressure drop across the flow line is indicated by a pressure gauge 5 and may also be registered on a recorder T by means of a pressure transducer 6 which converts a mechanical signal into an electrical one. For safety reasons a safety pressure switch 8 which is connected in any suitable manner to a pressure control unit 9 may be inserted in the flow line to prevent the pressure exceeding a predetermined maximum allowable pressure, in this example 1500 mbar. Upon reaching said maximum allowable pressure the total apparatus is rendered inoperative by switching off its power supply. The duration of a test can be varied with the aid of a time adjuster, which in this example is represented together with the pressure control unit 9. The actual test circuit is placed in a thermostatic bath 10 and is represented at 11.During a test the test circuit is heated to a suitable determined temperature, in this example about 90 0C. After each test the test circuit is cleaned by flushing the flow line and the circuit with any suitable liquid, for example 0.1 N hydrochloric acid. Fig. lb shows an advantageous example of the apparatus of the invention, comprising a storage vessel 1 and each flow line having a pump 2, a chemical usage pump 3, a stirrer 4, a pressure gauge 5, a pressure transducer 6, a pressure switch 8 and a test circuit 11. Both test circuits 11 are placed in a thermostatic bath 10. Both transducers 6 are connected in any suitable way with the recorder 7. Both pressure switches 8 are connected in any suitable way with the pressure control unit and time adjuster 9. Each chemical dosage pump 3 is connected in any suitable way with each flow line. Figs. 2 6 represent the results of a number of comparative tests of a known scale inhibitor, which has been carried out with the apparatus and the method according to the invention. The inhibitor, which has been tested, was successively added to the two test waters in successive concentrations in the range of 0 20 mg l, respectively. In fig. 2 5 the horizontal axes represent the adjusted test time in hours, whereas the vertical axes represent the obtained pressure drop in bar. Fig. 2 represents the results of two suitable test waters, viz. tap water curve I and artificial sea water curve II , both enriched with 50 mg l dissolved carbonate. The composition of these two waters is given in Table 1 below TABLE 1 Composition of suitable test watersEMI8.1 tb Component SEP Concentration, SEP mg l tb SEP Tap SEP water SEP Artificial SEP sea SEP water tb SEP Ca2 SEP 93 SEP 396 tb SEP Mg SEP tb SEP not SEP not SEP present SEP 0.02 tb SEP SO42 SEP 59 SEP 2820 tb SEP Cl SEP 185 SEP 20500 tb SEP HCO3 SEP 198 SEP 73 tb SEP CO SEP not SEP present SEP 17 tb SEP Na SEP K SEP 70 SEP 12450 tb Fig. 3 represents the results of the addition of a certain inhibitor in a concentration of 2 mgA to the test waters as used in fig. 2. Fig. 4 represents the results of adding the same inhibitor as used in fig. 3 in a concentration of 5 mg l. Fig. 5 represents the results of adding the same inhibitor as used in fig. 2 and fig. 3 in a concentration of 10 mg l. Fig. 6 shows a pressure drop increase versus concentration inhibitor curve after 4 hours testing in tap water. The wrtical axis represents the pressure drop increase in bar, whereas the horizontal axis represents the inhibitor concentration in mg l. From the curves of figs. 2 6 it can be seen that the rate of pressure drop increase depends on the concentration of the scale inhibitor added to the water. It will be clear that no pressure drop exists if the path of the curve is horizontal, so that no plugging exists. So, the path of these curves can be considered as being related to the effectiveness and performance of the scale inhibitor. A great variety of scale inhibitors can be tested with the apparatus of the invention. The test results of a number of scale inhibitors are summarized in Table 2 below by way of example.It will be appreciated that Table 2 is not an exhausting example. TABLE 2 Effectiveness of commercially available scale inhibitors EMI10.1 SEP Pressure SEP increase SEP in SEP millibar tb SEP after SEP four SEP hours SEP testing SEP Minimum SEP dosage SEP for tb SEP Dosago SEP complete SEP inhibition tb SEP Concentration SEP inhibitor SEP mg l SEP mg l SEP mg l tb Inhibitor SEP tested SEP recommanded tb SEP Artificial SEP sea SEP water SEP Tap SEP water SEP by SEP Artificial SEP Tap tb SEP manufacturer SEP sea SEP water SEP water tb SEP 2 SEP 5 SEP 10 SEP 2 SEP 5 SEP 10 tb Calgon SEP S SEP 31 SEP 60 SEP 20 SEP 0 SEP 740 SEP 80 SEP 0 SEP n.a. SEP 10 SEP 10 tb Dowell SEP L SEP 50 SEP 20 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 490 SEP 390 SEP 0 SEP 1 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 10 tb Dowell SEP L SEP 49 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 850 SEP 50 SEP 0 SEP 1 SEP 5 SEP 2 SEP 10 tb Patrolite SEP SP SEP 181 SEP 40 SEP 30 SEP 20 SEP 420 SEP 560 SEP 890 SEP n.a. SEP 10 SEP 10 tb Cynamid SEP P SEP 35 SEP 100 SEP 80 SEP 70 SEP 330 SEP 270 SEP 250 SEP n.a. SEP 10 SEP 10 tb Aquachem SEP A SEP 920 SEP 700 SEP 290 SEP 20 SEP 170 SEP 100 SEP 0 SEP n.a. SEP 10 SEP 10 tb Aquachem SEP A SEP 910 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 140 SEP 80 SEP 2 10 SEP 2 SEP 2 tb Conquest SEP 126 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 230 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 1 10 SEP 2 SEP 5 tb Conquest SEP 121 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 110 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 1 10 SEP 2 SEP 5 tb Conquest SEP 103 SEP 30 SEP 30 SEP 0 SEP 360 SEP 350 SEP 360 SEP 1 10 SEP 10 SEP 10 tb Conquest SEP 100 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 30 SEP 40 SEP 1 10 SEP 2 SEP 2 tb Nalfloc SEP V SEP 950 SEP 100 SEP 0 SEP SEP 120 SEP 20 SEP SEP 4 SEP 6 SEP 4 SEP SEP 5 tb n.a. not available Concentration from data obtained in earlier tests. The flow line comprising the test circuit may be made of any material suitable for the purpose, for example polyethylene. An advantageous test circuit which can be used is a stainless steel capillary test tube, 1 m long and having 1 mm inside diameter. Any wall material suitable for the purpose may be used. The flow regions and test conditions are such that the temperature of the water entering the test circuit almost immediately approaches the temperature of the bath. The temperature of the bath can be any tenterature suitable for the purpose. The water may be pumped by any suitable pump at any variable flow rates. If a stirrer is used, said stirrer may be any stirrer suitable for the purpose. Tests may be carried out with any suitable maximum allowable pressure. Any suitable pressure measuring means may be used. The duration of a test can be any suitable time length. A very advantageous embodiment of the apparatus of the invention comprises more than two supply lines, each line comprising a test circuit and other equipment belonging to it. It will be appreciated that the invention is not restricted to testing scale inhibitors. The invention can also be used in an advantageous manner to test the effectiveness and performance and the compatibility of scale inhibitors with various chemicals, such as corrosion inhibitors, oxygen scavengers, biocides, etc. Further, it will be clear to those skilled in the art that any test liquid suitable for the purpose may be used. It will further be appreciated that the results of the continuous pressure measurements and recordings and time adjustments may be processed by any suitable processing means such as a computer.According to the invention it is also possible to remove scale after it has been formed in the test circuit by adding suitable chemicals to the liquid. Examples of such chemicals are crown ethers, dewaxers, etc. After said chemicals have been added to the test circuit, the pressure decrease across the test circuit is measured and recorded continuously. Various modifications of the invention will become apparent to those skilled in the art from the foregoing description and accompanying drawings. Such modifications are intended to fall within the scope of the appended claims.