# Vinyl chloride polymers.

## Abstract
The invention relates to a process for the suspension polymerization of vinyl chloride, if so desired with one or more copolymerizable monomers, with monomer soluble, radical forming initiators, and in the presence of suspending agents, to vinyl chloride polymers with at least 70 by weight of vinyl chloride units having good processing properties. This suspension polymerization of vinyl chloride, is car ried out according to the invention in the presence of prefer ably 0.005 0.5 parts by weight per 100 parts by weight of monomer of primary suspending agents and of 0.005 0.5 parts by weight of polyvinyl acetate with a low degree of solvolysis per 100 parts by weight of monomer.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A process for the preparation of vinyl chloride polymers by suspension polymerization of vinyl chloride, if so desired with 30 by weight at most of one or more copolymerizable monomers, with monomer soluble, radical forming initiators and in the presence of primary suspending agents, this process being characterized in that this suspension polymerization is carried out in the presence of 0.005 0.5 parts by weight of polyvinyl acetate with a low degree of solvolysis as defined above per 100 parts by weight of monomer, besides with a primary suspending agent known as such. 2. A process according to claim 1, characterized in that the polyvinyl acetate with the low degree of solvolysis has a degree of polymeriza tion of between 100 and 10000 is used. 3. A process according to any one of the claims 1 2, characterized in that the polyvinyl acetate with the low degree of solvolysis has a degree of solvolysis of 2 14 moles Z. 4. A process according to claim 3, characterized in that the polyvinyl acetate with a low degree of solvolysis has a degree of solvolysis of 3 12 moles . 5. A process according to any one of the claims 1 4, characterized in that 0.005 0.5 part by weight of the primary suspending agent is used per 100 parts by weight of monomer. 6. A process according to claim 5, characterized in that, as primary suspending agent, polyvinyl alcohol with a degree of solvolysis of between 70 and 90 moles Z, one or more cellulose derivatives or mixtures thereof are used. 7. A process according to claim 6, characterized in that, as cellulose derivative, hydroxypropyl cellulose, methylhyroxypropyl cellulose andlor hydroxyethyl cellulose are used. 8. A process according to claim 1 as substantially described in the speci fication and or in the examples. 9. Vinyl chloride polymers prepared according to any of the claims 1 8.

## Description
VINYL CHLORIDE POLYMERS The invention relates to a process for the suspension polymeri zation of vinyl chloride, if so desired with one or more copolymerizable monomers, with monomer soluble, radical forming initiators, and in the presence of suspending agents, to vinyl chloride polymers with at least 70 by weight of vinyl chloride units having good processing pro perties. The suspension polymerization of vinyl chloride, if so desired with copolymerizable monomers, is generally known and is carried out extensively on a technical scale. Liquid vinyl chloride is suspended in water and polymerized with monomer soluble, radical forming initiators at temperatures of between 30 OC and 80 C. The polymerization takes place in the monomer droplets. Usual initiators are lauroylperoxide, dialkylpercarbonates, specifically diisopropyipercarbonate, azo compounds, specifically azo bis isobutyronitrile, sulphonyl peroxides, spe cifically acetylcyclohexanesulphonylperoxide. Suspending agents are used in order to promote and to stabilize the distribution of monomer or monomers in the aqeous phase and in order to prevent the agglomeration of polymer particles during the polymerization. Usual suspending agents are gelatine, cellulose derivatives, polyvinyl alcohols and polymeric suspending agents based on maleic acid or acrylic acid, for instance copolymers of maleic acid and vinyl acetate. It has been found that particle size, porosity and bulk density of the polymer, specifically of polyvinyl chloride, and consequently the processing properties as well, can be influenced by the choice of the suspending agents. Particularly with vinyl chloride polymers in which softeners are incorporated, a definite influence of the suspending agents used in the polymerization process is apparent. For the incorporation of plasticizers, the polymer must have sufficient porosity. Generally, it is true that so called fish eyes, i.e. nongelled portion, will be less frequent as the porosity increases. Since the toxious properties of vinyl chloride have become known, the demands on the removal thereof from the polymer have increased. Vinyl chloride has been found to be easier to remove from the polymer as the porosity increases. High porosity of the polymer often goes with a low bulk density. At a given porosity, however, the bulk density has been found to differ. As the bulk density increases, the processability, particularly the throughput in extruders, improves. The purpose, therefore, is to prepare vinyl chloride polymers of which the bulk density at a certain, desired porosity is as high as possible. On account of the influence of the suspending agents on a number of properties of the polymer, the choice thereof is particularly important. By modification of the suspending agents it is tried to ever further improve the properties of the polymers to be prepared. It is known, for that purpose, to add to the usual primary suspending agent, which is understood to be a water soluble suspending agent, a secondary suspending agent, which is understood to be a suspending agent not soluble in water. The results will then be far better than those obtained when only the primary suspending agent is used. Thus from the Nederlands patent application 7714034 it is known that vinyl chloride polymers having good porosity, a large BET surface area, a narrow particle size distribution, few fish eyes in processing, and good plasticizer take up can be prepared by suspension polymerization of vinyl chloride, if so desired with copolymerizable monomers with monomer soluble, radical forming initiators, in the presence of primary and secondary suspension agents, by carrying out the polymerization in the presence of 0.005 0.5 parts by weight of a primary suspending agent known as such per 100 parts by weight of monomer and as secondary suspending agent 0.005 0.5 parts by weight, per 100 parts by weight of monomer, of a polyvinyl alcohol with a degree of polymerization of at least 250 and preferably at least 350, with a degree of solvolysis of 40 to 70 moles X and with a narrow distribution of the degree of hydrolysis. As primary suspending agent, a polyvinyl alcohol with a degree of solvolysis of 70 to 90 moles X is preferably used. The above mentioned polyvinyl alcohols, characterized by, among other things, a certain degree of solvolysis, and used as suspending agents, are prepared by solvolysis of polyvinyl acetate, because polyvinyl alcohol cannot be directly prepared by polymerization of vinylalcohol, which is tautomeric with acetaldehyde. In an aqueous or alcoholic environment polyvinyl acetate can be converted, with an acid or an alkali as catalyst, into polyvinyl alcohol. With hydrolysis in an aqueous environment acetic acid will be released and with alcoho lysis in an alcoholic environment an acetic ester will be released. The term solvolysis comprises both conversions. The solvolysis may be effected completely or partially. A partially solvolyzed polyvinyl alco hol can be regarded as a copolymer of vinyl acetate and vinyl alcohol, but is in practice referred to as polyvinyl alcohol, with the degree of hydrolysis, or better the degree of solvolysis, being stated. The effect of the secondary suspending agents, such as polyvi nyl alcohol with a degree of solvolysis of 40 to 70 moles X, preferably 50 to 60 moles , and a narrow distribution of the degree of hydrolysis, is explained in the Netherlands patent application 7714034, from the presumption that this secondary suspending agent is forced into the boundary surface of the vinyl chloride monomer and the water, so that it very favourably influences the structure of the PVC to be formed. Despite the very good results achieved according to the Netherlands patent application 7714034, the method described there shows a great disadvantage. The polyvinyl alcohol with a degree of solvolysis of 40 to 70 moles Z, more in particular 50 to 60 moles Z, with a narrow distribution of the degree of hydrolysis, to be used as secondary suspending agent, is expensive. According to the invention, a result even better as that according to the Netherlands patent application 7714034 strongly reduced number of fish eyes while the other properties of the PVC stay virtually the same is obtained if the suspension polymerization of vinyl chloride, if so desired with 30 by weight at most of one or more copolymerizable monomers, is carried out with monomer soluble, radical forming initiators and in the presence of preferably 0.005 0.5 parts by weight per 100 parts by weight of monomer of primary suspending agents in the presence of 0.005 0.5 parts by weight of polyvinyl acetate with a low degree of solvolysis as defined below per 100 parts by weight of monomer. Polyvinyl acetate is to be understood as a polymer of vinyl acetate which is hardly solvolyzed and therefore has a degree of solvolysis of 2 14 moles , often even of 3 12 moles . It is surprising that such a relatively cheap polyvinyl acetate with a low degree of solvolysis, which can no longer act as a suspending agent, because the number of hydroxyl groups contained in it are too small for this purpose, has an even better effect as an expensive secondary suspending agent as described in the Netherlands patent application 7714034. According to the invention this polyvinyl acetate may contain minor quantities of other monomers incorporated by polymerization, e.g.to 20 Z by weight. Usual primary suspending agents are gelatin, polymeric suspending agents based on maleic acid or acrylic acid, for instance copolymers of maleic acid and vinyl acetate. Very suitable primary suspending agents are polyvinyl alcohols with a degree of solvolysis of 70 to 90 moles X and cellulose derivatives, specifically hydroxypropyl cellulose, methylhydroxypropyl cellulose and hydroxyethyl cellulose.Very suitable also are mixtures of the above polyvinyl alcohols and or cellulose derivatives. The invention is further eluc1K ated by the following nonrestrictive examples and comparative experiments.Example 1 An enameled autoclave of 100 1 is filled with 26.0 kg vinylchloride, 36.4 kg water, 15.6 g polyvinyl alcohol with a degree of solvolysis of 79 moles Z and a degree of polymerization of 1700 and 10.4 g polyvinyl acetate with a low degree of solvolysis and a degree of polymerization of 330, the degree of solvolysis being about 5 moles . While being stirred, the whole is heated to 330.5 K and is kept at this temperature until the pressure in the autoclave, which was about 950 kPa, falls to about 800 kPa. The pressure is subsequently relieved and the polymerization is discontinued. The polyvinyl chloride is subsequently recovered from the suspension and is dried. Of this polyvinyl chloride the bulk density, the average particle size and the porosity are determined. The average particle size d is determined by the sieve analysis method described by Rosin and Rammler in Kolloid Zeitschrift 67 1934 , pages 16 26, and Chem. Ing. Tech., 24 1942 , pages 25 31. The porosity E is determined by the mercury intrusion method at a pressure of 12 MPa. L.A. de Wit and J.J.F. Scholten, J. Cat.36 1975 , pages 36 47, give a general exposition of the theory of this method and Guyer, Bohlen and Guyer, Helv. Chim. Acta 42 1959 , page 2103, describe an apparatus for the measuring of the porosity according to this method. For the polyvinyl chloride a d of 167 pm, and an E of 0.21 x 10 3 m3 kg and a bulk density of 525 kg m3 are found. Example 2 In a way similar to that of example 1, vinyl chloride is poly merized, except that polyvinyl acetate with a low degree of solvolysis and a degree of polymerization of 1480, the degree of solvolysis being about 5 moles X, is used. In a way similar to that of example 1, a d of 175 Sm, an E of 0.22 x 10 3 m3 kg and a bulk density of 525 kg m3 are found for the polyvinyl chloride. Example 3 In a way similar to that of example 1, vinyl chloride is poly merized, except that polyvinyl acetate with a low degree of solvolysis and a degree of polymerization of 3470, the degree of solvolysis being 5 moles X, is used. In a way similar to that of example 1, a d of 171 pm, an E of 0.20 x 10 3 m3 kg and a bulk density of 536 kg m3 are found for the polyvinyl chloride. Example 4 In a way similar to that of example 1, vinyl chloride is poly merized, except that, instead of 10.4 g, 20.8 g of the same polyvinyl acetate with a low degree of solvolysis is used. In a way similar to that of example 1, a d of 139 pm, an E of 0.30 x 10 3 m3 kg and a bulk density of 484 kg m3 are found for the polyvinyl chloride. Example 5 In a way similar to that of example 2, vinyl chloride is poly merized, except that, instead of 10.4 g, 20.8 g of the same polyvinyl acetate with a low degree of solvolysis is used. In a way similar to that of example 1, a d of 150 pin, an s of 0.30 x 10 3 m3 kg and a bulk density of 480 kg m3 are found for the polyvinyl chloride.Example 6 In a way similar to that of example 2, vinyl chloride is polymerized, except that, instead of 10.4 g, 20.8 g of the same polyvinyl acetate with a low degree of solvolysis is used. In a way similar to that of example 1, a d of 144 pin, an E of 0.25 x lo 3 m3 kg and a bulk density of 521 kg m3 are found for the polyvinyl chloride.Example 7 In a way similar to that of example 1, vinyl chloride is polymerized, except that, instead of polyvinyl alcohol, hydroxypropyl cellulose and, instead of 10.8 g, 15.6 g of the same polyvinyl acetate with a low degree of solvolysis is used. In a way similar to that of example 1, a d of 160 Fm, an E of 0.25 x 10 3 m3 kg and a bulk density of 517 kg m3 are found for the polyvinyl chloride.Comparative experiment 1 In a way similar to that of example 1, vinyl chloride is polymerized, except that no polyvinyl acetate with a low degree of solvolysis is added. In a way similar to that of example 1, a d of 240 Wm, an E of 0.17 x 10 3 m3 kg and a bulk density of 535 kg m3 are found for the polyvinyl chloride.Comparative experiment 2 In a way similar to that of example 1, vinyl chloride is polymerized, except that no polyvinyl acetate with a low degree of solvolysis is added, but, instead, 20.8 g of a secondary suspending agent, viz. a polyvinyl alcohol with a degree of solvolysis of 55 moles X and a degree of polymerization of 580 and with a narrow distribution of the degree of solvolysis, i.e. more than 80 has a degree of solvolysis of between 45 and 65 moles x which does behave as a secondary suspending agent . In a way similar to that of example 1, a d of 155 pin, an E of 0.29 x 10 3 m3 kg and a bulk density of 490 kg m3 are found for the polyvinyl chloride.Comparative experiment 3 In a way similar to that of comparative experiment 2, vinyl chloride is polymerized, except that, as secondary suspending agent, an otherwise identical polyvinyl alcohol with a degree of polymerization of 1450 is used. In a way similar to that of example 1, a d of 135 pm and an of 0.33 x 10 3 m3 kg and a bulk density of 480 kg m3 are found for the polyvinyl chloride. The above examples show that the effect of the degree of poly merization of the polyvinyl acetate with a low degree of solvolysis on the product properties of the polyvinyl chloride is negligible. For practical reasons, however, preference is given to the use of polyvinyl acetate with a low degree of solvolysis and a degree of polymerization of between 100 and 10000. Furthermore a number of test is carried out in the course of which the number of fish eyes is determined by gelating a composition of 100 parts by weight of PVC and 50 parts by weight of dioctyl phtalate on a roller at 150 C, mixing it for another 7 minutes after the gelation and processing it into a 0.1 mm film and counting the number of dots per 100 cm2. From these tests it appears that PVC prepared according to the invention has an average number of fish eyes of about 2 and PVC prepared according to the Netherlands patent application 7714034 an average number of fish eyes of about 5.