# Preparation of 2 oxazolines by cyclodehydration process employing inorganic iron salts as catalysts.

## Abstract
A cyclodehydration process for preparing 2 oxazolines by reacting in liquid phase a an N 2 hydroxyalkyl carboxamide with b a small but catalytic amount of an ironcontaining compound that has minimum solubility of at least 100 parts per million in the reaction mixture. The reaction is normally conducted at temperatures of 180 C to 200 C and under reduced pressure. Both 2 H and 2 substituted 2 oxazolines are prepared by this process. Yields of 83 percent or more are obtained.

## Claims
1. A cyclodehydration process for preparing a 2 oxazoline characterized by reacting in liquid phase a an N 2 hydroxyalkyl or N inertly substituted 2 hydroxyalkyl carboxamide or a carboxylic acid amine salt precursor of said carboxamides with b a small but catalytic amount of a soluble inorganic iron containing compound, said iron containing compound not being an iron oxide. 2. A process as in Claim 1 wherein said N 2 hydroxyalkyl carboxamide has the formulaEMI11.1 wherein R is hydrogen, alkyl of from 1 to 17 carbon atoms or phenyl, R1 and R2 are each independently hydrogen, lower alkyl, hydroxymethyl or alkanoyloxymethyl groups of up to 17 carbon atoms, and R3 and R4 are each hydrogen. 3. The process of Claim 2 and further characterized in that R is methyl, ethyl or phenyl and R1 R4 are each hydrogen. 4. The process of Claim 1 and further characterized in that said catalyst is charged in amounts of from 0.005 to 0.4 mole of iron containing compound per mole of carboxamide reactant. 5. The process of Claim 1 and further characterized in that the reaction is conducted under conditions of temperature and pressure such that the 2 oxazoline product is removed from the reaction mixture as a volatile gas as it is formed. 6. The process of Claim 1 and further characterized in that the iron containing compound is one or more of ferrous chloride, ferric chloride, ferrous bromide, ferric bromide, ferrous iodide, ferric iodide, ferrous sulfate and ferric sulfate.

## Description
PREPARATION OF 2 OXAZOLINES BY CYCLODEHYDRATION PROCESS EMPLOYING INORGANIC IRON SALTS AS CATALYSTS This invention pertains to a novel cyclodehydration reaction which produces 2 oxazolines using soluble iron containing compounds as the catalyst, where the term soluble is defined in the following description. The 2 oxazolines are a known class of compounds whose chemistry has been summarized by Wiley et al., Chemical Reviews, Vol. 44, 447 476 1949 Seeliger et al., Angew. Chem. International Edition,Vol. 5, No. 10, 875 888 1966 , and Frump, ChemicalReviews, 1971, Vol. 71, No. 5, 483 505. The 2 oxazolines correspond to the general formulaEMI1.1 wherein R is hydrogen, hydrocarbyl or inertly substituted hydrocarbyl, and R1 R4 are each independently hydrogen, hydrocarbyl, or an inertly substituted hydrocarbyl group. The best known oxazolines are those in which R is hydrogen, alkyl or phenyl and R1 and R2 are hydrogen, lower alkyl or hydroxymethyl or derivatives thereof e.g., esters and R3 and R4 are each hydrogen. 2 H 2 Oxazoline is the first member of the oxazoline series and corresponds to formula II.EMI2.1 The 2 H 2 oxazolines and particularly II above are generally quite different from the corresponding 2 substituted 2 oxazolines. This is illustrated by the fact that many conventional processes for preparing 2 substituted 2 oxazolines are not particularly satisfactory for the preparation of the corresponding 2 H 2 oxazolines. For example, many 2 substituted 2 oxazolines are conventionally prepared by dehydrochlorinating an N ss chloroalkyl carboxamide with aqueous alkali. Compound II, on the other hand, is produced by this process in only very low yields and is accompanied by decomposition of the desired product. See H. Wenker, J. Am. Chem. Soc., 60, 2152 1938 . Another common technique for preparing 2 oxazolines is the cyclodehydration of N ss hydroxyalkyl carbox amides over various catalysts. Litt et al. U.S. Patents 3,681,329 and 3,681,333, both issued August 1, 1972 claimed that 2 H 2 oxazolines could be prepared by contacting the appropriate formamides with compounds of manganese, cobalt, molybdenum, tungsten and the rare earth metals. Unfortunately, there is no experimental data in Litt et al. which would substantiate this allegation. Hess teaches in U.S. Patent 2,844,589, issuedJuly 22, 1958 that II can be prepared by a cyclodehydration of N 2 hydroxyethyl formamide in the presence of a dehydrating agent specifically diatomaceous earth, sulfuric acid, aluminum oxide and iron oxide . ThisHess citation is considered to be the most pertinent prior art.The yields reported by Hess were higher than the yield reported by Wenker but were still rather low and commercially unsatisfactory. In contrast to this, Litt et al. teach in U.S. Patent 3,562,263, issuedFebruary 9, 1971, that 2 substituted 2 oxazolines are prepared in excellent yield by cyclodehydration of N 2 hydroxyalkyl carboxamides over aluminum oxide. In view of these differences between 2 H 2 oxazolines and 2 substituted 2 oxazolines in the various methods of preparation, it was surprising to find a class of compounds which would catalyze the cyclodehydration of N 2 hydroxyethyl formamides and carboxamides to form the corresponding 2 H 2 oxazolines or the 2 substituted 2 oxazolines. The present invention is a cyclodehydration process for preparing a 2 oxazoline characterized by reacting in liquid phase a an N 2 hydroxyalkyl or n inertly substituted 2 hydroxyalkyl carboxamide or a carboxylic acid amine salt precursor of said carboxamides with b a small but catalytic amount of a soluble inorganic iron containing compound, said iron containing compound not being an iron oxide. The discovery that iron containing compounds would catalyze the instant cyclodehydration reaction was most surprising for reasons set forth above and particularly in view of the teaching by Litt et al. in U.S.Patents 3,681,329 and 3,681,333, both previously identified, that iron compounds are inferior catalysts in this reaction. The N 2 hydroxyalkyl carboxamides used in the instant process are a known class of compounds which can be represented by the formulaEMI4.1 wherein R and R1 R4 are each independently hydrogen, hydrocarbyl or inert hydrocarbyl groups, i.e., inert in the instant process. Preferred reactants are those wherein R is hydrogen, alkyl of from 1 to about 17 carbon atoms or phenyl and R1 and R2 are hydrogen, lower alkyl C1 C6 , hydroxymethyl or alkanoyloxymethyl groups alkyl C O OCH2 of up to about 17 carbon atoms and R3 and R4 are hydrogen. Most preferred reactants are those wherein R is hydrogen, methyl, ethyl or phenyl, and R1 R4 are each hydrogen. These preferences are based upon the commercial availability of the ethanolamines which are used in preparing such carboxamides. The N 2 hydroxyalkyl carboxamides are conveniently and typically prepared by reacting a carboxylic acid or a lower alkyl ester of a carboxylic acid with an ethanolamine of the formula IV. 2 NH2 CR1R2 CR3 R4 OH wherein R1 R4 have the meaning described above. The carboxylic acid amine salt which is formed initially in these reactions can be used in the instant process in place of the carboxamide. When such carboxylic acid amine salts are used, the carboxamide is generated in situ. The catalysts in the instant cyclodehydration reaction are iron containing compounds. Suitable catalysts are inorganic and organometallic iron compounds which are soluble in the carboxamide reactant or liquid reaction medium. The term soluble means that the iron containing compound has at least a minimum solubility e.g., about 100 parts per million or more at the reaction temperature. Examples of suitable iron containing compounds which can be used as catalysts include ferrous chloride, ferric chloride, ferric bromide, ferric iodide, ferrous sulfate, ferric sulfate, ferric ammonium sulfate, ferric potassium sulfate, ferric octoate, iron pentacarbonyl, ferric acetate, ferric acetylacetonate, ferric ammonium oxalate, ferric benzoate, ferric citrate, ferric naphthenate, ferric phosphate and ferrous acetate.The inorganic iron compounds are preferred and the iron chlorides, bromides, iodides and sulfate are more preferred. Ferrous and ferric chlorides and sulfates are the most preferred catalysts. The iron containing compounds are used in the instant process in small but catalytic amounts. Normally the iron containing compounds are added in amounts of from about 0.005 to about 0.4 mole of iron containing compounds per mole of carboxamide reactant but more or less of the iron containing compounds can be used, if desired. The instant cyclodehydration reaction may be conducted neat or in solution with a suitable inert solvent. By inert is again meant inert in the process.Suitable such inert solvents include, for example, chlorinated hydrocarbon solvents, aromatic hydrocarbon solvents, cycloaliphatic hydrocarbon solvents and aliphatic hydrocarbon solvents. It is preferred, however, to conduct the reaction without any solvent added i.e., neat . The reaction temperature must, obviously, be sufficient to promote the cyclodehydration reaction and is normally selected in the range of from about 1400C to about 280 C. Preferred reaction rates have been observed at temperatures of from about 1600Cto about 2500C. The instant cyclodehydration reaction is also preferably conducted under reduced pressure. By conducting the reaction in this manner, product recovery is facilitated in that frequently a reaction temperature may be chosen which is above the boiling point of the 2 oxazoline product and below the boiling point of the N 2 hydroxyalkyl carboxamide reactant. In this manner, the 2 oxazoline can be removed from the reaction mixture as a volatile gas essentially as fast as it is formed.This is very desirable since the instant cyclodehydration reaction is a reversible process and by removing the products, the reaction is forced to completion by substantially reducing the reverse reaction. Water normally codistills with the 2 oxazoline product. The instant process may be conducted in a batch process or in a continuous manner. In the preferred continuous process the N 2 hydroxyalkyl carboxamide reactant is metered into the reaction vessel at essentially the same rate as the 2 oxazoline and water are removed overhead as volatile gases.Example 1 Preparation of 2 H 2 Oxazoline N 2 Hydroxyethyl formamide 100.2 g 1.125 mole and ferrous chloride tetrahydrate 1.58 g 0.008 mole was added to a reaction vessel equipped with a stirring means, heating means, and a distillation means comprising a distillation column with a takeoff head and receiver, and a vacuum source. The pressure over the reaction mixture was adjusted to 50 mm Hg and the temperature raised to 1800C 1870C. The head temperature of the distillate was between about 370C and about 420C.The material collected from the overhead distillate was a water white liquid weighing 89.5 g. Analysis of this water white liquid using gas chromatography indicated that it was 79.2 weight percent oxazoline, and a KarlFischer analysis indicated that the material was 19.9 weight percent water. The yield derived from this analytical data indicated that 2 H 2 oxaozline was produced in 88.7 percent of theoretical yield, based on the N 2 hydroxyethyl formamide charged to the reaction vessel. The 2 H 2 oxazoline can be recovered from the aqueous distillate, if desired, by solvent extraction using chloroform or other inert water immiscible organic solvents.Example 2 2 H 2 Oxazoline was prepared in approximately 84 percent yield following the procedure of Example 1, except for using FeS04 7H20 as the catalyst.Example 3 Similar to Example 1, 2 H 2 oxazoline was prepared in approximately 82 percent yield using hydrated ferric sulfate in place of ferrous chloride as the catalyst. By way of comparison, it is noted that Hess in U.S. Patent 2,844,589 produced 2 H 2 oxazoline in extremely low yields using ferric oxide as the catalystWe observed similar poor yields in experiments using ferric hydroxide and ferrous gluconate as catalysts in attempts to prepare 2 H 2 oxazoline. These iron compounds were insoluble in the N 2 hydroxyethyl formamide reactant under conditions set forth in the above examples.Example 4 Using the apparatus described in Example 1, an aliquot of N 2 hydroxyethyl propionamide amounting to approximately 0.3 mole and ferric chloride about 0.05 mole were charged to the reaction vessel and the pressure reduced to 120 mm Hg. The reaction mixture was then heated to approximately 2000C and held at this reaction temperature until material began to distill overhead. At this point, additional N 2 hydroxyethyl propionamide was added dropwise at approximately 1.4 g minute. During this addition, the pot temperature was maintained at approximately 200 C and the water white distillate came overhead at a temperature of from 650C to about 720C. After the addition was complete, the pot temperature was raised to approximately 2500C to drive off residual amounts of the 2 ethyl 2 oxazoline.The distillation head temperature reached a maximum of 900C in this postheating period. The distillate was a water white liquid upon cooling which was analyzed by gas chromatography and Karl Fischer titration. This analytical data showed that 2 2 ethyl 2 oxazoline was thus produced in 90 percent yield, based upon the amount of N 2 hydroxyethyl propionamide charged to the reaction vessel.Example 5 Using the procedure set forth in Example 4, 2 ethyl 2 oxazoline was produced in 90.2 percent yield using ferrous chloride tetrahydrate in place of the ferric chloride catalysts. Example 6 2 Ethyl 2 oxazoline was produced in approximately 76 percent yield in a batch process by warming the salt of propionic acid and ethanol amine over ferrous chloride tetrahydrate approximately 2 mole percent to approximately 2000C 50 mm Hg. There was a pause in the rise in temperature during which the acid amine salt was converted to the amide. Otherwise, the reaction proceeded essentially the same as Example 5 above. The product was similarly recovered as an overhead distillate with water.Example 7 In a similar batch process, 2 ethyl 5 methyl 2 oxazoline was produced in approximately 84 percent yield by cyclodehydrating N 2 hydroxypropyl propionamide over ferrous chloride tetrahydrate. The reaction proceeded very rapidly under somewhat milder conditions 1650C .