# Castor wheel provided with universally activated locking device.

## Abstract
The invention relates to a castor 1 which comprises a locking device that can be actuated by different types of mechanisms, i.e. the locking device can be universally actuated. Therefore the castor comprises a locking device provided with a slide like locking member 9 which is hooked shaped and guided so as to be radially moveable in a housing 4 fixed to one of the parts 3 of the castor and is urged in one direction. One end 10 of the slide being adapted to fit into recess 11 and the end portion at the other end 12 being bent. One or more apertures 18, 21 are provided in the housing, and different means provided for moving the slide. These means may be formed separated or in combination by a cable, draw rod 17 , pedal 32 or the like.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A castor comprising a first part in which the wheel is mounted and a second part on which the first part is mounted so that it can swivel, and means for locking the swivelling movement of the first part in at least one position of the castor, the said means having a locking device movable mounted on one of the parts which is adapted to fit into a recess in the other part, wherein the locking device comprises a slide like locking member which is hooked shaped and guided so as to be radially moveable in a housing fixed to one of the parts of the castor and is urged in one direction by a spring, one end of the slide being adapted to fit into said recess and the end portion at the other end being bent such thÅat the end edge of the slide is displaced above or below the plane of the slide, while the bent part of the hook projects from the housing, one or more apertures being provided in the housing, and different means being provided for moving the slide against the force of said spring. 2. A castor in a accordance with claim 1, wherein means for moving he slide is formed by a cable, draw member or the like which is connected to the hooked shaped slide. 3. A castor in accordance with claim 1 or 2, wherein means for moving the slide is formed by a wedge shaped rod adapted to be pushed through an aperture in a side wall of the housing, the said aperture being located at the level of the end edge of the end part of the hooked slide and the portion of the slide adjacent to its end edge partly overlapping the said aperture. 4. A castor in accordance with claim 1 or 2, wherein means for moving the slide is formed by a cam located within the housing, with a shaft through an aperture in the upper part of the housing, and means for rotating the shaft with the cam connected thereto, the cam supports against the end part of the hooked slide, so that on rotating the shaft the cam can gradually push said end part. 5. A castor as claimed in claims 1 4, wherein a bearingelement is located in the bent part of said hooked slide. 6. A castor in accordance with claim 5, wherein means for moving the slide is formed by at least one cam on a shaft mounted in said bearing element and means for rotating said cam such that said cam surface can push against the end part of a lateral part of the housing facing said cam. 7. A castor in accordance with claim 6, wherein the end part of the lateral part of the housing has a somewhat curved shape and the cam surface ofsaid cam comprises two parts mainly positioned in a right angle to each other, each part being curved to a complementary shape. 8. A castor in accordance with claim 5, wherein means for moving the slide is formed by a shaft or rod mounted in the bearing element and projecting at at least one end from the bearing element and a cam rotatably mounted in at least one aperture in a lateral face of the housing with a cam surface supporting against the inner part of the shaft or rod which on moving said cam upwards or downwards can push said shaft or rod radially outwards.

## Description
Castor wheel provided with universal activated locking deviceThe invention relates to a castor comprising a first part in which the wheel is mounted and a second part on which the first part is mounted so that it can swivel, and means for locking the swivelling movement of the first part in at least one position of the castor, the said means comprising a locking device movable mounted on one of said parts and adapted to fit into a recess in the other part.A lockable castor of this type is desired when carriages provided with castors are required to be not only highly manoeuvrable but also capable of running as coupled trains. ofAccording to known castor arrsngements this type British patent 851.157 the locking device is formed by a pawl adapted to turn on a horizontal pivot mounted in one of the parts of the castor. The US patent 3.026.558 discloses a locking device comprising a plunjer mechanism, which can be activatedby a lever.The main disadvantage of known locking device being the fact that it can only be actuated by one type of mechanism, e.g. by or a pedal or a lever or a cable.The object of the invention is to provide a castor of the type described whereby the same locking device can be actuated by different types of mechanisms, i.e. the locking device can be universally actuated. This object is achieved by the measure that said locking device comprises a slide like locking member which is hooked shaped and guided so as to be radially moveable in a housing fixed to one of the parts of the castor and is urged in one direction by a spring, one end of the slide being adapted to fit into recess and the end portion at the other end being bent such that the end edge of the slide is displaced above or below the plane of the slide while the bent part of the hook projects from the housing, one or more apertures being provided in the housing, and different means being provided for moving the slide against the force of said spring. The means for moving the slide may be formed separated or in combination by a cable, draw rod, pedal or the like which are fastened to the bent part of said hooked slide.Additionally or instead of this, means may be provided in the form of a wedge shaped rod adapted to be pushed through an aperture in a side wall of the housing, the said aperture being located at the level of the end edge of the hooked end portion of the slide and the portion of the slide adjacent to its end edge partly overlapping said aperture.Instead of the above mentioned wedge shaped rod, means for moving the slide may be provided in the form of a cam located within the housing, with a shaft through an aperture in the upper part of the housing, and means for rotating the shaft with the cam connected thereto, the cam supports against the end part of said hooked slide such that on rotating the shaft the surface of the cam can gradually push said end away.A bearing element may advantageously be located in the bent portion of said hooked slide.In this case means for moving the slide may be formed by at least one cam on a shaft mounted in the bearing element and means for rotating the shaft, so that the cam surface can push against the end edge of a lateral part of the housing facing the cam.The end edge of the lateral part may have a somewhat curved form and the cam surface can have two parts positioned mainly in a right angle to each other, each of which is curved to a complementary shape.The means for moving the slide may also be formed by a shaft or rod mounted in the bearing element and projecting at at least one end from the bearing element, and a cam rotatably mounted in at least one aperture in a lateral part of the housing, with a cam surface bearing against the inner edge of the shaft or rod, which on moving upwards or downwards, can force the shaft or rod radially outwards.The present invention will now be described in detail with reference to the drawings. Fig. 1 is a perspective view of Åa castor with a locking means in accordance with the invention. Fig. 2 is a sectional view along the line II II in fig. 1. Fig. 3 is a sectional view according to fig. 2 showing slide moving means having the form of a wedge shaped rod. Fig. 4 is a sectional view according to fig. 2 showing slide moving means in the form of a cam located in the housing. Fig. 5 is a sectional view according to fig. 2 showing slide moving means in the form of a cam mounted in a bearing element. Fig. 6 shows an alternative embodiment of the cam shown in Fig. 5, and Fig. 7 is a sectional view according to fig. 2 showing a cam mounted on the housing.As shown in figs. 1 and 2, the castor comprises a first part in the form of a swivelling fork 1 in which a wheel 2 is mounted and a second part 3 which is, for example, adapted to be fastened to a truck alld to which the fork 1 is fastened so that it can swivel. A housing 4 is mounted on the upper part 3 and has an upper member 5, two side members 6 and 7 and a bottom part 8.A slide like member 9 is moveably guided in housing 4. End part 10 of slide 9 is adapted to fit into recess 11 in swivelling fork 1, so that the swivelling movement of wheel 2 can be locked. The other end of hooked slide 9 is bent, such that the other end part 12 is displaced above the surface of the slide. Slide 9 is urged inwards by means of spring 13, one end of the spring is fasten to housing 4 at point 14 and the other end to a pin 15 which passes through slide 9, pin 15 thus at the same time can serve as a stop for determining the outermost position of the slide thereby supporting against the lateral part of housing 4.A bearing member 16 is located in the bent part of hooked slide 9.A cable or draw rod 17 is fixed to the slide, by means of which the slide can be pushed to the right against the force of the spring so that end part 10 of slide 9 is released from the recess 11.As shown in fig. 3, a slot shaped aperture 18 is located in the side part 7 of housing 4. Through said aperture a wedgeshaped rod 19 can be pushed into the housing from outside.By this the end part 12 of the curved part of said slide is pushed to the right in the drawing, whereby the end part 10 is released from recess 11.As shown in fig. 4, also a cam like member 20 can be applied mounted in aperture 21 of top part 5 of housing 4. Member 20 being rotatable by means of handle 22. Member 20 comprises a cam surface 23 which supports against the end edge 12 of the bent part of slide 9 and being shaped such that on rotation of cam 20 slide 9 is moved to the right, by means of which end part 10 of slide 9 is released of recess 11. Fig. 5 shows the application of a foot pedal 24 which is rotatably mounted in a bearing element 16. The foot pedal comprises a cam surface consisting of two parts 25 and 26 positioned mainly in a right angle to each other. Parts 25 and 26 have a somewhat curved form which is complementary to the curve of edge 27 of lateral part 7 of housing 4. On moving the pedal 24 downwards cam surface portion 25 presses against edge 27, by means of which side 9 is moved to the right until cam surface portion 26 supports against edge 27, which prevents pedal 24 springing up again.In fig. 6 a member 28 is rotatably mounted in bearingelement 16 while it can be turned by means of lever 29, so that its surface 30 supports against edge 31 of side wall 6 of housing 4, by means of which slide 9 is moved to the right and end part 10 of the slide is released. Finally, fig. 7 shows the application of a foot pedal 32 which is pivotably mounted in apertures 33 in side parts 6 and 7 of housing 4 and provided with a cam surface 34.This surface can cooperate with a rod 5 fastened in bearingment 16, so that on moving down pedal 32 cam surface 34,elerod 35 and slide 9 are moved to the right, causing the release of end part 10 of said slide. The locking device for the swivelling movement of the castor as herein before described has a compact structure, mainly due to the designs of a slide and housing, and does not sppport project above the mounting surface of the portion 3 of the castor. The slide is light but stiff and can be easily moved in horizontal direction. It can absorb relatively large forces in the transverse direction mainly duo to its improved guidance, so that the castor can be locked with scarcely any play. The hooked shaped slide member can be activated in various ways, manually or automatically, therefore due to the invention a wide field for applying said castor is obtained.