# Process for coating underwater surfaces with wax and coating compositions thus applied.

## Abstract
In a process for coating a surface intended for underwater use with wax in which the wax is applied as an aqueous dispersion, the dispersion also contains a film forming, air drying, water dispersible polymer in an amount of up to 50 wt, by weight of the coating, preferably from 1 to 25 wt. The polymer may be a vinyl polymer or copolymer, preferably an acrylate polymer or copolymer. The addition of the polymer increases the toughness and flexibility of the coating and can be used to control the porosity of the coating and hence the rate of release of any biocide present in the coating.

## Claims
What we claim is 1. A process for coating a surface intended for underwater use with wax comprising applying to the surface an aqueous dispersion of a wax, char cterised in that the dispersion contains also a film forming, air ying, water dispersible polymer in an amount c up to 50 wt by wight of coating. 2. A pr szess as claimed in claim 1, characterised in that the coating contains from 1 to 25 wt of polymer. 3. A process as claimed in claim 1 or 2, characterised in that wax and polymer dispersions are formed separately and are mixed. 4. A prowess as claimed in claim 1, 2 or 3 characterised in that the polymer is a vinyl polymer, preferably an acrylate polymer. 5. A process as claimed in any of claims 1 to 4, characterised in that the Dlymer is a copolymer of methyl methacrylate and butyl acr ate. 6. A process as claimed in any of claims 3 to 5 characterised in that the polymer dispersion contains, from 15 to 75 wt of polymer, preferably from 25 to 55 wt. 7. A process as claimed in any of claims 1 to 6 wherein the polymer disprsion contains a dyestuff. 8. A process as claimed in any of claims 2 to 7 wherein the coating contains a biocide. 9. A costing applied to a surface intended for underwater use whenever applied by a process as claimed in any of claims 1 to 8.

## Description
TREATMENT OF UNDERWATER SURFACES This invention relates to the application of a wax coating to surfaces intended for underwater use, e.g. ships hulls, and to the surfaces so treated. The coating of surfaces intended for underwater use with wax to reduce roughness, corrosion and fouling has already been proposed. A particularly suitable method of application of the wax is described and claimed in the complete specification of UK Patent No. 1479701, the process claimed being a process for coating a surface intended for underwater use with wax, characterised in that the wax is applied as an aqueous dispersion of a wax. Surfaces coated with wax applied as described are also claimed. The wax coating may contain a biocide effective against marine weed and or shell growth. Thus, the complete specification of UKPatent No. 1479702 describes and claims a process for coating a surface capable of underwater use with wax, characterised in that the wax coating has a thickness of from 5 to 500 micrometres and contains at least one biocide dispersed or dissolved in the wax which is effective against marine weed and or shell growth when so dispersed or dissolved. Surfaces coated with wax applied as described are also claimed.The complete specification of UK PatentApplication No. 37377 76 describes and claims a film forming wax composition suitable for use as a marine anti fouling coating containing an organo tin ester of an oxidised wax on an aliphatic fatty acid, and a method of protecting an underwater surface from marine fouling comprising coating the surface with a film of wax as described. It has now been found that a further improvement in the quality of the wax coating can be obtained if a polymer dispersion is used in combination with a wax dispersion. One area of improvement may be in increased flexibility and toughness and hence a decrease in the tendency of the coating to crack or craze during use. Another area of improvement may be in controlling the porosity of the wax coating and hence the rate of release of any biocide present. According to the present invention, a process for coating a surface intended for uderwater use with wax, comprising applying to the surface an aqueous dispersion of awax is characterised in that the dispersion contains also a film forming, air drying, water dispersible polymer in an amount of up to 50 wt by weight of the coating, preferably in an amount of from 1 to 25 , and more particularly from 2 to 15 . The polymer is, as indicated above, film forming and preferably has a low film forming temperature, e.g. a minimum film forming temperature below 50C, since the coatings may have to be applied at low ambient temperatures. Another requirement of the polymer is that it should be air drying, i. e. that it forms films on drying in air without the need for any chemical reaction such as cross linking or curing. The third requirement of the polymer is that it should be waterdispersible, i.e. capable of forming stable aqueous dispersions. This applies to the dispersions on their own and in admixture with wax dispersion. Preferably, the wax and polymer dispersions are prepared separately and are mixed prior to the application to the surface to be coated. The mixing may be immediately prior to the application. Besides being compatible, the dispersions should aslo mix readily. To ensure compatibility and ready mixing, the type of polymer dispersion is preferably the same as that of the wax dispersion, i.e.they are both anionic, which is preferred, or both cationic or nonionic. The wax and the polymer have to be film forming so the dispersions, as applied, will normally be liquid solid dispersions. However, they may be prepared as liquid liquid emulsions and in certain circumstances may be liquid liquid up to application provided a stable water resistant film is produced. The terms dispersion and emulsion as use in this specification are to be understood in this sense. Having regard to the requirements set out above the preferred polymers are vinyl polymers or co polymers. Polymer systems such as epoxy resin systems requiring two components and chemical curing are not suitable. Within the vinyl polymers are vinyl acetates and vinyl acetate vinyl chloride co polymers or, preferably, acrylic polymers or co polymers. Particularly preferred polymers are acrylate polymers this term being understood to include acrylates and methacrylates and to include both homopolymers, which are preferred, and co polymers with styrene. In one example of a suitable, available aqueous acrylate polymer dispersion, the dispersion may be a co polymer of methyl methacrylate and a minor proportion of butyl acrylate, which may be present in molar proportions of from 60 40 to 40 60. Thus, suitable acrylate polymer dispersions are those sold older the Registered TradeMark Revacryl by the Harlow Chemical Company, e.g. that sold asRevacryl 105. Revacryl 239 may also be suitable as may acrylate polymer dispersions sold by BP Chemicals Limited under the Trade Mark Breon , e.g. Breon 2671E2. Other film forming polymers available as aqueous dispersions include modified, e.g. carboxylated styrene butadiene rubbers such as Breon 6480 sold by BP Chemicals Limited, carboxylated nitrile rubbers such as Breon 1571 and Breon 1574 sold by BP Chemicals Limited, and emulsifiable polyethylenes such as PolyethyIenes 629, 540 and 580 sold by Allied Chemicals Limited. The polymer content of the dispersion may be from 15 to 75 wt, preferably 25 to 60 wt and, as discussed in more detail hereafter, the wax dispersion may similarly contain from 15 to 75 wt of wax, preferably 25 to 55 wt. The dispersions may be used in the required quantities to give the required amounts of polymer in the finished coating. The wax dispersions may be prepared and have the characteristics described in the complete specification of UK Patent No. 1479701. Thus the dispersions may be prepared by emulsifying wax and water at a temperature above the melting point of the wax in the presence of an emulsifying agent and allowing the emulsion to cool. The average wax particle size may be from 0.05 to 10 micrometres and the emulsion may be passed through a homogeniser, e.g. a Manton Gaulin Homogeniser to ensure a small wax particle size. The dispersion may contain 15 to 75 wt of wax by weight of the dispersion, preferably 25 to 55 wt and may have a viscosity at 250C such as to produce shear stresses of 0.05 to 88.0 Newton metres 2 at shear shear rates of 7 to 1142 seconds . Ata shear rate of 100 sec preferred viscosities are from 0.004 to 0.1 Newton seconds metres 2 The emulsifying agent may be present in an amount of 0.2 to 10 wt by weight of the dispersion, preferably 1.0 to 5.0 wt and is preferably anionic, as indicated above. Preferred emulsifiers are amine salts of carboxylic acids particularly ammoniacal or ethanolamine salts of stearic or oleic acids. A wide range of waxes may be used, preferably having a melting point of 45 to 1200C and a penetration of 1 to 60 10 as measured by 10 ASTM D1321. Preferably the wax is predominantly mineral wax derived from petroleum, e.g. paraffin or microcrystalline wax, but minor amounts of other waxes may be present, e.g. chlorinated or oxidised waxes, Montan wax, ozokerite, ceresine, carnauba wax and FischerTropsch wax. Other components of the wax dispersion, preferably in amounts of not more than 5 wt, may be polyisobutylene as a softener and plasticiser, a water soluble cellulose polymer as a bodying agent for the dispersion, a polyethylene glycol as a protective colloid for the wax particles to prevent agglomeration, and an alcohol, e.g.2 ethyl hexanol as a bubble release agent to give a smooth finished coating. The thickness of the finished coating may be from 5 to 500 micrometres preferably 50 to 400 micrometres, control being achieved by control of the viscosity of the dispersion and rate of application. As previously indicated, the use of aqueous wax dispersions besides giving a smooth coating is also advantageous in that the coating has a degree of permeability to water so that any anti fouling agent incorporated in the wax coating can be gradually released. It has been found that the quantity of polymer present in the finished coating does affect its permeability and that at the upper end of the defined range of polymer the coating may be relatively impermeable. Such quantities may be used if the primary requirement is increased flexibility and toughness of the coating. It has also been found, however, that within the preferred range of 1 to 25 it is possible to retain sufficient porosity to give controlled leaching of biocide and to balance this with a more modest but acceptable increaSe in flexibility and toughness. The finished wax coatings are likely to be light in colour and may be t ansparent or translucent. It may be convenient therefore to add a dyestuff to the dispersion so that the coating can be clearly seen and its retention on the surface monitored. Adding a dyestuff to the wax dispersion can affect the stability of the dispersion. It has been found that the acrylate polymer dispersions are less sensitive to dyestuffs and in a preferred embodiment the acrylate polymer dispersion may contain a dyestuff preferably in an amount of from 1 to 25 wt by weight of the dispersion. The invention is illustrated by the following examples. Example 1 An aqueous wax dispersion was formed from the following components. wtParaffin wax of 60 620C melting point 3600 g 20.0Montan wax LP wax ex Hoechst A.G. 900 g 5.0 Polyisobutylene of 350 M Hyvis 03 360 g 2.0 n Stearic acid Prifac 014 420 g 3.5Triethanolamine 188 mlPolyethylene glycol of 1500 M.W. 90 g 0.5 Carbowax 1500 2 ethyl hexanol 67.4 ml 0.3Hydroxyethyl cellulose aqueous solution 6.3 1 0.35 Cellosize QP 4400L at a concen zation of lOg litre Water 6.1 1 balance The dispersion was formed by stirring the components except the triethanolamine at 80 0C in a 20 litre container. The triethanolamine was added slowly and stirring at 500 rpm was continued for 30 minutes at 800C.The mixture was passed through a Manton Gaulin homogeniser at 800C and 2000 psig and then cooled rapidly to 300C by means of a heat exchanger. 40 g of Revacryl Registered Trade Mark 105 sold by the HarlowChemical Co. were stirred into 80 g of the above wax dispersion. The wax dispersion and the wax polymer dispersion were sprayed onto mild steel test plates to a dried film thickness of 300 microns. The waxpolymer film contained 44 wt of polymer by weight of film. The dried films were immersed in sea water. After 2 days the wax polymer film was intact, clear and had an increased toughness compared with the film of unmodified wax which was opaque and showed some cracking. The Revacryl 105 dispersion used was a colloid free dispersion containing 52 molar of methyl methacrylate and 48 molar of butyl acrylate and had the following properties.Solids content 50.0 pH 8.8Brookfield LVT spindle 3 speed 30 500 cP spindle 3 speed 60 150 cPSpecific gravity of dispersion 1.05Specific gravity of polymer 1.10Particle size, weight average 0.2 micronMinimum film forming temperature 30C Example 2 An aqueous wax dispersion was formed from the following components. wtParaffin wax of 60 620C melting point 45Montan wax LP wax ex Hoechst A.G. 5Polyethylene glycol of 1500 M.W. 0.5 Carbowax 1500 Stearic acid Prifac 014 2.3Triethanolamine 1.15 Polyisobutylene of 350 M Hyvis 03 2.5 n 2 ethyl hexanol 0.1Hydroxyethyl cellulose Cellosize QP 4400L 0.075Tritbutyltin oxide 3.4Water balance The dispersion was formed as described in Example 1. The Revacryl 105 dispersion of Example 1 was coloured green by the addition of 15 parts of a dye Liquid Green 1001 to 100 parts of the dispersion. This coloured dispersion was then mixed with the wax dispersion in the ratio of three parts wax dispersion to one part polymer dlspersion. The wax polymer dispersion was sprayed onto the u der water surface of a 24000 NT tanker in dry dock on top of anti fouling paint. Two 4 metre wide strips were applied on either side of the ship using AtlasCopco A6F spray units with 0.021 inch, 65 degree spray tips. The wet film thickness was 400 microns and the films dried to give semitransparent dark green films containing 22 wt of polymer. Visual under water inspection after three months showed that the films were free of fouling and in good condition. Example 3 wtParaffin wax of 60 620C melting point 44Montan wax LP wax ex Hoechst A.G. 5Polyethylene glycol Carbowax 1500 0.5Stearic acid Prifac 014 2.3Triethanolamine 1.15Polyisobutylene Hyvis 03 4 2 ethyl hexanol 0.3Hydroxyethyl cellulose Cellosize QP 4400L 0.05Tributyl tin oxide 3.4Water balance The dispersion was formed as described in Example 1 by blending the components in a 2 litre vessel. This emulsion was sprayed onto mild steel test plates dry film thickness raj 300 microns and dried to a clear film. To 100 parts of the above wax emulsion 20 parts of Revacryl 105 polymer dispersion were added with stirring. The resultant waxpolymer dispersion was also sprayed onto mild steel test plates dry film thickness 300 microns and dried to a clear film containing 14 of polymer. The wax and wax polymer coated test plates were immersed at 2 ft depth from a jetty on the Isle of Wight. Regular inspections over a period of 25 weeks showed that the wax polymer film had a greater resistance to cracking and crazing. Example 4 A series of dispersions were prepared using the dispersions and method of Example 3, and the dispersions were sprayed onto test plates to give dried films also as in Example 3. The proportions of the dispersions were varied, however, to give films containing different amounts of pclymer. The dispersions were sprayed onto mild steel test plates to a film thickness of 300 microns and immersed in sea water at Singapore for 6 months. The degree of fouling was assessed visually at the end of this period. The dispersions used and the results obtained are shown in Table 1 below. Table 1EMI8.1 tb SEP Dispersions SEP Used SEP Fouling SEP Assessment tb SEP Wax SEP Polymer SEP Polymer SEP in SEP Abundance SEP Average SEP Coverage SEP X SEP tb Dispersion SEP Dispersion SEP dry SEP film SEP Size tb SEP SEP wt SEP SEP wt SEP SEP wt tb SEP 90 SEP 10 SEP 10 SEP 3 SEP 5mm SEP dia SEP 10 tb SEP 4 SEP microscopic SEP 70 tb SEP 95 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 3 SEP 5mm SEP dia SEP 20 tb SEP 100 SEP nil SEP nil SEP 1 SEP 3mm SEP dia SEP C SEP 10 SEP 10 SEP tb SEP microscopic SEP SEP 90 tb Rated usually on a scale from 1 Rare to 6 Super abundant The fouling assessment of all three plates was good having regard to the severe nature of the test, viz. immersion using static plates in a tropical sea for 6 months. The tests, therefore, showed that up to 10 wt of polymer could be incorl orated into a wax film without significantly reducing the porosity and hence the leaching of biocide.