# Process for recovering uranium from wet process phosphoric acid.

## Abstract
Recovery of uranium from wet process phosphoric acid by liquid liquid extraction with organic esters of phosphoric acid. The sulphate content of the phosphoric acid is adjusted to a value less than 2 wt. by addition of a compound of a biva lent metal, and separation of the metal sulphate precipitate formed. By this process a minor amount of extractant has to be used.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. Process for recovering uranium from wet process phosphoric acid by liquid liquid extraction with organic esters of phosphoric acid, characterized in that the sulphate content of the phosphoric acid to be extracted is adjusted to a value of less than 2 wt. , calculated relative to the quantity by weight of P205 in the phosphoric acid, by addition of a compound of a bivalent metal that reacts with sulphate ions to form a sulphate insoluble in phosphoric acid and separation of the metal sulphate precipitate formed. 2. Process according to Claim 1, characterized in that the sulphate con tent of the phosphoric acid to be extracted is adjusted to a value of less than 0.6 wt. , calculated relative to the quantity by weight of P205 in the phosphoric acid. 3. Process according to either of Claims 1 and 2, characterized in that the sulphate content is decreased by addition of a calcium and or barium compound and separation of the calcium and or barium sulphate formed. 4. Process according to any of Claims 1 3, characterized in that calcium and or barium carbonate or sulphide are added to the phosphoric acid to be extracted. 5. Process according to any of Claims 1 4, characterized in that the fluorine content of the phosphoric acid to be extracted is adjusted to a value of less than 0.7 wt. , calculated relative to the quantity by weight of P205, by addition of a compound of a bivalent metal in excess relative to the sulphate and or addition of a silicon compound or mixture of a alkali metal compound and a silicon compound. 6. Process according to any of Claims 1 5, characterized in that the nitrate content of the phosphoric acid to be extracted is adjusted to a value of 0.5 5 wt. , calculated relative to the quantity of P205. 7. Process according to Claim 6, characterized in that the nitrate con tent is adjusted by addition of nitric acid and or nitrates. 8. Process according to Claim 1, substantially as described and further elucidated in the examples. 9. Uranium containing extract obtained by application of the process according to any of Claims 1 8.

## Description
PROCESS FOR RECOVERING URANIUM FROM WET PROCESS PHOSPHORIC ACID, AND URANIUM PRODUCT OBTAINED BY THIS PROCESS The invention relates to a process for recovering uranium from wet process phosphoric acid by liquid liquid extraction with organic esters of phophoric acid. Such a process is known from Ind. and Eng. Chem. 49 1957 No.4, p. 628 638, in which alkyl phosphates and alkyl pyrophosphates are named as extractants, Ind. Eng. Chem. 11 1972 No. 1, p. 122 128 and 13 1974 No. 3, p. 286 291, in which mixtures of alkyl phosphates and trialkylphosphine oxides, and mixtures of alkylphenyl phosphates dissolved in an aliphatic hydrocarbon such as kerosene are respectively named. A disadvantage of this known process is that only part of the uranium present in the phosphoric acid is extracted, so that multi stage extraction is necessary. In this extraction process part of the extractant is lost with the phosphoric acid solution, which, with the very high price of the extractant, raises the cost price of the process considerably. The present invention provides a process by which it is possible to extract uranium from wet process phosphoric acid with a considerably smaller quantity of extractant than in the known process and in which extractant losses are also considerably lower. According to the invention, this is achieved by adjusting the sulphate content of the phosphoric acid to be extracted to a value of less than 2 wt. , calculated relative to the quantity by weight ofP205 in the phosphoric acid, by addition of a compound of a bivalent metal that reacts with sulphate ions to form a sulphate insoluble in phosphoric acid and separation of the metal sulphate precipitate formed. The sulphate content of the phosphoric acid to be extracted is preferably adjusted to a value of less than 0.6 wt. , calculated relative to te quantity by weight of P205 in the phosphoric acid. Examples of suitable metallic compounds are oxides, hydroxides and salts such as carbonates, sulphides, nitrates, phosphates and chlorides of calcium, magnesium and barium. Mixtures of such compounds may also be applied. A calcium and or barium compound is preferably applied as metallic compound. Carbonates and sulphides are especially suitable calcium and or barium compounds, because in application thereof the anions do not remain behind in the phosphoric acid. The quantity of metallic compound to be added is not critical, it should merely be sufficient to react with an amount of sulphate in the phosphoric acid such that the residual sulphate content is reduced to below 2 wt. , and preferably below 0.6 wt. , calculated relative to the quantity by weight of P205. Preferably, a quantity of metallic compound is applied that is at least equivalent to the quantity of sulphate in the phosphoric acid to be extracted. If a metallic compound is applied that also reacts with other components present in the phosphoric acid, the quantity of metallic compound to be added should be of course be adjusted accordingly. The metal sulphate precipitate formed after the addition of the metallic compound can be separated from the phosphoric acid in various ways, for example by filtration, centrifugation, decantation.The precipitate contains, in addition to the insoluble metal sulphate formed, part of the fluorine compounds and metallic contaminants present in the wet process phosphoric acid. The quantity of these contaminants in the precipitate is determined by the nature and quantity of the metallic compound applied and the grade of wet process phosphoric acid applied, among other factors. The precipitate can be further processed in various ways, optionally with recovery of the original metallic compound reactive with sulphate ions. The process according to the invention can be applied in combination with various extracting agents for uranium known per se, such as a mixture of di 2 ethylhexyl phosphoric acid and trioctylphosphine oxide in kerosene, or a mixture of mono and dioctylphenyl phosphoric acids in kerosene. The uranium can be recovered from the extracting agent by a known method, too, for instance by precipitation using ammonium carbonate. The process according to the invention can in principle be applied to various grades ofwet process phosphoric acid. Because it has, however, been found that the efficiency of uranium extraction decreases with increasing P205 content of the phosphoric acid, dilute phosphoric acid is preferably used as starting material, for instance with a P205 content of 30 wt. or lower. It has, furthermore, been found thtr the uranium extraction efficiency is adversely affected by soluble fluorine compounds in the phosphoric acid. By the process according to the invention, part of these fluorine compounds are separated from the phosphoric acid with the metal sulphate precipitate, so that further removal of the fluorine is not usually necessary.If a wet process phosphoric acid with a high fluorine content is used as starting material, the fluorine content can be lowered by addition of an excess, relative to the sulphate to be removed, of a reactive metallic compound and or by addition of silicon compounds optionally mixed with alkali compounds. The fluorine content of the phosphoric acid to be extracted is preferably adjusted to a value of less than 0.7 wt. , calculated relative to the quantity by weight of P205 in the phosphoric acid. It has, furthermore, been found that the uranium extraction efficiency can be increased by adding to the phosphoric acid a small amount, e.g. 0.5 5 by weight, of nitrate ions, calculated to the quantity of P205. This can be achieved by adding to the phosphoric acid to be extracted a small amount of nitric acid and or nitrate, e.g.ammoniumnitrate. The invention is further elucidated with reference to the following examples.Example 1Test No. 1 Into a beaker, 100 gram wet process phosphoric acid with aP205 content of 30 wt. , an S04 content of 1.5 wt. , a fluorine content around 1.2 wt. and a uranium content of 120 ppm was introduced. A 1 wt. solution of a flocculant was then added under stirring in a quantity of 4 ml flocculant litre phosphoric acid. The clear upper layer was then separated from the precipitate formed, which contained the greater part of the organic contaminants and inert components of the phosphoric acid. Into the liquid thus separated a quantity of solid BaC03 was added under stirring, in a 40 wt. excess relative to sulphate. In the process a precipitate was practically instantaneously formed that was subsequently filtered off. Solid potassium chlorate was added to the filtrate in a quantity of 100 mg 100 gram H3P04, after which the mixture was stirred for approx. 5 minutes, thus to convert the tetravalent uranium to the hexavalent state. To the resulting liquid, an extracting agent was added in a volume ratio of 1 2 relative to the phosphoric acid, which agent consisted of a solution of 0.5 mole di 2 ethylhexyl phosphoric acid and 0.125 mole trioctylphosphine oxide in 1 litre kerosene. The resulting mixture was stirred vigorously for 10 minutes at a temperature of 45 C. The mixture was then allowed to stand for 0.5 hour, forming a two layer system, and the aqueous, H3P04 containing lower layer was then drained off. Using X ray fluorescence analysis and liquid scintillation counting, the uranium content of both the drained off H3P04 containing phase and the extracting agent phase was determined. The results are summarized in Table 1.Test No. 2 The process of Test No. 1 was repeated, but using an excess of 10 wt. BaC03 relative to sulphate. The analysis results are again summarized in Table 1.Test No. 3 The process of Test No. 1 was repeated, but using a deficiency of 30 wt. BaC03 relative to sulphate. The analysis results are again summarized in Table 1.Test No. 4 The process of Test No. 1 was repeated without addition of BaC03. The analysis results are summarized in Table 1.Test No. 5 The process of Test No. 1 was repeated, with the concentration of sulphate in the solution being adjusted to 1.5 wt. after separation of the precipitate containing sulphate and fluorine. The analysis results are summarized in Table 1. Table 1 wt. S04 wt. F after extraction in H3P04 in H3P04 U content U content D sol. sol. in H3P04 in extr. sol. liquorTest No. 1 0.1 0.2 25 ppm 305 ppm 12Test No. 2 0.1 1.0 26 ppm 300 ppm 11.5Test No. 3 0.5 1.1 29 ppm 293 ppm 10Test No. 4 1.5 1.2 42 ppm 251 ppm 6Test No. 5 1.5 0.1 38 ppm 265 ppm 7D here signifies quantity by wt. uranium in extraction liquor quantity by wt. uranium in phosphoric acid after extraction It can be clearly concluded from the analysis results seeTest 1, 2, 3 rel. to blank test 4 that the S04 content of the liquid be extracted has a very distinct influence on the uranium extraction efficiency, and that the fluorine content see Test 5 rel. to blank teC 4 exerts much less influence.Example 2Test No. 6 In the same way as in Example 1, uranium was extracted from phosphoric acid. In this case the uranium in the liquid was not, after separation of the barium sulphate containing precipitate, oxidized wit potassium chlorate, however, but reduced with iron turnings 4 gram Fe 100 gram H3P04 , the solution stirred for 15 minutes, and the undissolved iron subsequently removed with a magnet.The analysis results are summarized in Table II.Test No. 7 The process of Test No. 6 was repeated, but adding only a 10 excess of BaC03 relative to sulphate. The results are summarized inTable II. Test No. 8 The process of Test No. 6 was repeated, but adding a deficiency of BaC03, however. The analysis results are summarized in Table II.Table II wt. S04 wt. F after extraction in H3P04 in H3P04 U content U content D sol. sol. in H3P04 in extr. sol. liquorTest No. 6 0.1 0.2 85.5 ppm 111 ppm 1.3Test No. 7 0.1 1 113 ppm 23 ppm 0.2Test No. 8 1 1 116 ppm 12 ppm 0.1 From the analysis results it appears that although the extraction efficiency of the extractant is fairly low on a reduced U4 containing H3P04 solution, the removal of sulphate and fluorine causes, in this case too, a considerable increase in uranium extraction efficiency. Example 3Test No. 9 The process of Test No. 1 was repeated, but without treating the solution with potassium chlorate.The analysis results are summarized in Table III.Test No. 10 The process of Test No. 9 was repeated, but without addition ofBaC03.The analysis results are summarized in Table III. Table III wt. S04 wt. F after extraction in H3P04 in H3P04 U content U content D sol. sol. in H3P04 in extr. sol. liquorTest No. 9 0.1 0.2 29 293 10Test No. 10 1.5 1 74 148 2