# Household appliance.

## Abstract
A base of a household appliance or a stove has a rack of tubes 16, 17 with adjustable sliding feet 20 for the adjustment of height. A removable front piece 21 which is easy to remove for cleaning has a break line 24 for breaking away a portion of the same in order to adjust the machine to a low standard height. The front piece can be adapted on the rack by means of clamps.

## Claims
Claims 1. A household appliance in the form of a stove, a machine, or the like, including a base with a removable front piece, c h a r a c t e r i z e d in that the base 10 is comprised of tubes 16, 17 having fixing points 15 for a body, an envelope or the like, of the appliance, and downwardly bent tube ends 18, 19 , into which feet 20 are adjustably screwed. 2. A household appliance according to Claim 1, c h a r a c t e r i z e d in that the tubes 16, 17 are crossed and interconnected in the cross point. 3. A household appliance according to Claim 1, c h a r a c t e r i z e d in that a front piece 21 has a longitudinal break line 24 forming an indication for dividing the piece. 4. A household appliance according to Claim 1, c h a r a c t e r i z e d in that around three of the vertical sides of the base plate walls 25 are disposed enclosing a storage room within the base. 5. A household appliance according to Claim 4, c h a r a c t e r i z e d in that the plate walls 25 , the front piece 21 and a bottom form a displaceable drawer in the base 10 .

## Description
Household appliance The present invention relates to a household appliance in the form of a machine, stove, or the like, especially a base included in said appliance positioned on the floor alined with a work bench. A base consists usually of a frame with four sides on which wheels or sliding feet are mounted. The base is primarily used for supporting said appliance, but may also be a height adjusting means by which an inclination or irregularity in the floor can be eliminated. It is, however, impossible to reach the rear feet for adjustment, if the base is a frame and the appliance is pushed in between e.g. a couple of cabinets. It is therefore desirable to produce a more flexible base in which one of the sides can be removed and the adjustment carried out on all feet through an opening in the base. By the present invention a base with four adjustable feet supporting an open tube structure is presented and provided with a front piece which is removable and constituting the front of the base. Such a structure of the base allows an access to all feet from the open front. Owing to the tube structure the room within the base will be easily accessible and easily kept tidy. The room can, of course, be used as a storage room. When the base is included in a machine some of the apparatus thereof can be positioned in the base room. These advantages of a base according to the invention will be achieved when it is carried out in accordance with the characterizing part of Claim 1. An embodiment of an appliance with a base according to the invention is described in the following with reference to the accompanying drawing, which shows in fig. 1 an exploded view of the base and a plate envelope of said appliance and fig. 2 a sectional view of a fastening detail of the front piece of the base. A base 10 of a stove or the like 11 having a plate envelope shown above the base is shown in fig. 1. The envelope and the base are normally joined by means of screws 12 entered into holes 13 through a flange 14 of the envelope and drilled holes 15 in the base. This one is made of bent tubes 16, 17 which are crossed and have ends 18, 19 bent downwards. In the cross point the tubes are interconnected by means of welding, soldering or the like, thus forming a stable rack. The tubes are in the centre of the rack bent somewhat up and down, respectively, so that all the corners of the rack are positioned in one and the same plane.The downwardly bent ends 18, 19 are internally threaded to form a hold for the sliding feet 20, which in the shown embodiment are constituted of screws.When a screw is screwed up or down in its hole in the tube end the height of the corresponding corner above the floor is altered so that a height adjustment thereby will occur.The screws are long enough for adjusting the appliance into several standard heights thereof. The base is completed with a front piece 21 which is attached to the front legs of the rack by means of a clamp 22 fig. 2 . The clamp is positioned in a pocket 23 flanged of the plate constituting the front piece. This one is easy to remove and attach without tools as it is kept in place only by means of these clamps. The front piece is shown in full height on the drawing which corresponds to the highest standard height of kitchen bench cabinets. By a lower standard height a lower front piece is used. This one can be achieved from the shown piece by dividing the same. The front piece is therefore properly provided with a break line 24, where it is easy to break so that one of the pieces then constitutes the said lower front piece. The base can also be completed with another plate member 25 in the shape of three wails which cover the other three sides of the base. The embodiment now described can be considered an example how to realize the invention. Also variations of this embodiment are included in the inventive idea, the clamps may e.g. be replaced by other fastening means, such as screws, hooks, etc. and the sliding feet by link rollers. When using the storage room within the base this room may properly be provided with a drawer.