# Laminating wax for packaging laminates.

## Abstract
Laminates useful for packaging fatty food products such as butter comprise a layer of metal foil adhered to a layer of vegetable parchment by means of a wax based adhesive comprising a flexible microcrystalline wax with 2 to 20 per cent by weight of an alpha methylstyrene resin.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A wax based composition which comprises a microcrystalline wax and from 2 to 20 percent by weight with respect to the wax, of an alpha methylstyrene resin having a softening point of less than 850C. 2. A composition according to claim 1 in which the resin comprises a homopolymer of alpha methylstyrene. 3. A composition according to claim 1 or 2 in which the composition comprises approximately 6 percent by weight of the resin. 4. The composition according to any of claims 1 to 3 in which the microcrystalline wax has a penetration of 40 to 60 ASTM D 1321 . 5. The composition according to any of claims 1 to 4 in which the microcrystalline wax has an oil content of 3 to 5 percent by weight. 6. A packaging laminate which comprises a layer of metal foil adhered to a layer of paper by means of a wax based laminating composition as claimed in any of claims 1 to 5. 7. A laminate according to claim 6 in which the metal foil is aluminum foil. 8. A laminate according to claim 7 in which the paper is vegetable parchment. 9. A laminate according to claim 8 in which the paper is untreated vegetable parchment.

## Description
LAMINATING WAX FOR PACKAGING LAMINATES This invention relates to waxes which are useful for making packaging laminates, especially metal foil paper laminates used for packaging fatty products such as butter. Fatty products such as butter may be packaged in laminates of metal foil generally aluminum foil, and paper. The foil and the paper may be joined together by a suitable adhesive. The paper generally used for this purpose is vegetable parchment, also known as sulfur paper. Paper of this type is composed exclusively of vegetable fibers and has been subjected to treatment in successive baths of concentrated sulphuric acid in order to remove residual impurities and modify the cellulosic chains and render the resulting product waterproof. The paper can be treated with metal salts or complexes to improve resistance to water or fats. The treatment is usually effected by contacting the paper with a solution of the metal salt or complex.Chromium salts and complexes are particularly useful in this respect, especially the complexes of chromium chloride with long chain fatty acids such as stearic acid. The treatment with the metallic salts or complexes may be carried out so as to effect only a surface treatment or, alternatively, to impregnate the paper with the metallic compound throughout. If necessary, treatment with the metallic compound may be followed with a heating step. Vegetable parchment or sulphur paper which has not been treated with one of these metallic compounds possesses a lower resistance to water and fat than the treated paper and when the non treated paper is used in the packaging laminates, the product is often unsatisfactory, possessing inadequate resistance to water. We have now found that satisfactory packaging laminates for fatty products such as butter can be made by using a laminating adhesive comprising a flexible microcrystalline wax and 2 to 12 , preferably about 6 , by weight with respect to the wax, of an alpha methylstyrene resin with a softening point of less than approximately 850C. The paper may be of the treated or untreated type, with good results being obtained in either case, although the superior water resistance obtained with the present laminating waxes enables the untreated types to be used for a greater number of applications. The microcrystalline wax which is the main constituent of the adhesive is, as is well known, a complex mixture of molecules of paraffinic wax and other types of hydrocarbon. The flexible microcrystalline waxes used in the present compositions have a melting point from 600 to 800C, an oil content of 1 to 5 , preferably 3 to 5 , and a needle penetration of 40 to 60 at 250C. At higher temperatures, the penetration will be greater, for example, about 250 at 420C. The penetration is measured in accordance with ASTM D 1321 and is measured in units of 0.1 mm. Microcrystalline waxes are generally obtained by extracting heavy distillates from the second distillation of crude oil with suitable selective solvents such as methyl ethyl ketone. Depending on the conditions with which the distillation and extraction have been carried out and on the nature of the solvent and of the heavy distillate once the second distillate has been freed of its aromatic and asphaltic components it is possible to obtain microcrystalline waxes with differing compositins and properties. The present compositions employ laminating grade waxes, that is, microcrystalline waxes which are used for preparing laminates. These waxes contain sufficient oil to provide good flexibility and high bonding strength on various substrates. When microcrystalline waxes having all the desired properties are not available, it is possible to use mixtures of microcrystalline waxes. By modifying the relative proportions of two or more microcrystalline waxes it therefore becomes possible to prepare a laminating wax having the optimum combination of properties. The alpha methylstyrene resin used in the present compositions is a homopolymer or copolymer of alpha methylstyrene. Copolymers with other unsaturated monomers are possible, particularly those containing at least 50 of units derived from alpha methylstyrene, but its homopolymers are preferred. The softening point of the resin should be less than 850C. Resins of this type are commercially available under the trademarksKRISTALEX and PICCOTEX. The alpha methylstyrene resins used in the present compositions are able to wet the paper effectively, thus preventing dimensional variation of the paper when in contact with water and giving a better bond to the metal foil. This effect is particularly notable with untreated vegetable parchment. This behavior is in contrast to that of various synthetic and wood aliphatic resins aliphatic lignin resins which remain adhered to the foil after the laminate has been immersed in water. The alpha methylstyrene resins also conform to the requirements of materials to be used for butter packaging, thereby permitting their use for this purpose. The metal used in the laminate will normally be aluminum and this may be embossed or printed with designs or indicia according to the desire of the user.The foil may be laminated to the paper using conventional laminating procedures for this purpose.Suitable laminating techniques generally consist in coating the metal foil with a suitably proportioned quantity of the wax resin mixture and then bringing the coated surface into contact with the other material and cooling the assembly so as to solidify the wax adhesive, ensuring lamination. The conditions of operation, advancing speed, temperature of application of the mixture, cooling temperature, will be easily adapted in relation to the properties of the adhesive mixture. The wax compositions of the present invention give good adhesion between the metal foil and untreated vegetable parchments i.e. parchments which have not been wholly or partly impregnated with chromium salts or complexes. This is a particular advantage because it enables satisfactory laminates to be produced using untreated paper. However, treated paper may be used if desired. Suitable treating materials include the stearic acid complexes of chromium chloride, for example, the product sold by E. I. duPont de Nemours andCompany under the trademark Quilon . In the following Examples which are given to illustrate the invention, the test employed consisted of measuring the force expressed in g. cm. length of sample required to delaminate the vegetable parchment from the aluminum foil. Tests were carried out both on dry samples of the laminate and after immersion in water. Example 1 A mixture was made of two microcrystalline waxes having the following characteristics MOBIL WAX 2360 melting point C 75.4 penetration at 250C mm. X 10 26 penetration at 420C mm. X l0l 150 max. kinematic viscosity at 990C cSt 11.4MOBIL WAX 2370 melting point C 76.5 penetration at 250C mm. X lOl 46 penetration at 420C mm. X 1 220 250 kinematic viscosity at 990C cSt 14.6 The relative quantities of these two waxes in the mixture were 68 parts by weight of MOBILWAX 2370 and 20 parts by weight of MOBILWAX 2360. This mixture of waxes was blended with various alpha methylstyrene resins as follows Kristalex F 85 softening point 850C approximately Kristalex 3070 softening point 700C approximately Piccotex 75 softening point 750C approximately Piccotex 100 softening point 100 C approximately Piccotex 120 softening point 1200C approximately. The results obtained by using these mixtures to prepare laminates of untreated vegetable parchment and aluminum foil are given in Table 1 below. The delamination force is reported both with dry laminate and after immersion in water for 12 and 24 hours. TABLE 1Wax mixture 88 88 88 88 88 parts by weight Resin parts by weight Kristalex 85 12 Kristalex 3070 12 Piccotex 75 12 Piccotex 100 12 Piccotex 120 12Delamination force g cm 1 when dry 43 48 53 incompatible when immersed 1 hr. 46 55 60 24 hrs. 45 60 63 i delamination speed 10 cm min., coating of 10 g m2 on non treated vegetable parchment laminated to aluminum sheet 20 micron thickness at 1000C , 1.5 secs., pressure 2 bars.The results above demonstrate the desirability of using resins with softening points below 850C. Example 2 Blends of MOBILWAX 2360, MOBILWAX 2370,Kristalex F85 and Kristalex 3070 were prepared and used in laminating aluminum foil and untreated vegetable parchment in the manner described in Example 1. The resulting laminates were then tested for delamination force with the dry laminate and after 1 hr and 24 hrs.immersion. The results are shown in Table 2 below. TABLE 2MOBILWAX 2370 80 70 72 74 76 78 70 72 74 76 78MOBILWAX 2360 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20KRISTALEX F85 10 8 6 4 2KRISTALEX 3070 10 8 6 4 2Delamination force g cm Dry 40 50 53 48 50 48 55 60 48 45 45Immersed, 1 hr. 0 50 50 53 55 50 60 60 54 50 40Immersed, 24 hrs. 0 45 50 50 55 50 55 55 50 50 40 Example 3 Two samples of MOBILWAX 2370 having different bonding strengths were used in this Example. One sample Sample A had a bonding strength equal to the dealumination force in the tests described in Example 1 above of 40 g. cm. and was otherwise similar in its properties to the MOBILWAX 2370 described in Example 1.The second sample Sample B had a bonding strength of 28g. cm. and was otherwise similar to the MOBILWAX 2370 of Example 1. Blends were made of 80 parts by weight ofSample A or Sample B with 20 parts by weight of MOBILWAX 2360. The two blends were then blended with Kristalex 85 in the proportions of 94 parts by weight wax to 6 parts by weight resin. The resulting blends, Blends A and B respectively based on Samples A and B , were then used to prepare laminates of foil with both treated and untreated regetable parchments. The laminates were then tested in the manner described above. The results are given in Table 3 below. TABLE 3 Blend A Blend BASTM color less than 0.5 less than 0.5Odor slight slightRelative Density at 200C 0.92 0.92Softening point, oC. 78.2 77.6Kinematic viscosity, 100 C cSt 14.50 14.70Penetration, 250C 40 54 420C 140 170Bonding strength Al Al, g cm 45 38 Al untreated parchment dry 50 42 immersed 1 hr. 54 52 immersed 24 hrs. 55 55 Al treated parchment dry 50 40 immersed 1 hr. 55 48 immersed 24 hrs. 55 48