# Crude oil having improved cold flow properties.

## Abstract
The cold flow properties of petroleum oils, especially crude oils, are improved by the addition of a special copolymer of ethylene and vinyl acetate. The special copolymer contains 22 to 36 by weight of vinyl acetate, has a melt flow index of 50 to 1000 and it contains less than 14 pendant methyl groups per 1000 carbon atoms of the copolymer.

## Claims
r 1. The use of a copolvmer of ethylene with vinyl acetate, which a contains 22 to 36 by weight of vinyl acetate based on the weiqht of the copolymer, b has a melt flow index of 50 to 100 g l0 minutes as measured accordinq to British Standard 2782 Part 1 105of 1976 using a 2.16 kq load, and c contains less than 14 pendant methyl groups per 1000 carbon atoms of the copolymer as determined by nuclear magnetic resonance. to improve the cold flow properties of a petroleum oil. 2. The use according to Claim 1, wherein the copolymer has a melt flow index of 200 to 700. 3. The use according to Claim 1 or Claim 2, wherein the copolymer contains 5 to 11 pendant methyl groups per 1000 carbon atoms of the copolymer. 4. A crude oil composition which contains as additive to improve the cold flow properties, 0.005 to 1 by weight based on the crude oil, of a copolymer of ethylene with vinyl acetate which a contains 22 to 36 by weight of vinyl acetate based on the weight of the copolymer, b has a melt flow index of 200 to 700 g 10 minutes as measured according to British Standard 2782 Part 1 105of 1976 using a 2.16 kg load, and c contains 5 to 11 pendant methyl groups per 1000 carbon atoms of the copolymer as determined by nuclear magnetic resonance. 5. A petroleum oil composition which contains, as additive to improve its cold flow properties, 0.001 to 80 by weight based on the oil, of a copolymer of ethylene with vinyl acetate said copolymer having a a T5 in the range 55 to 600C, b a Tc in the range 47 to 540C c a Tp in the range 68 to 730C, and d a Tm in the range 84 to 870C. 6. A composition according to Claim 5, in which the oil is a crude oil. 7. A composition according to either Claim 5 orClaim 6 in which the amount of the copolymer is 0.005 to 1 .

## Description
EMI1.1 This invention relates to a petroleum oil having improved cold flow properties because of the addition of a selected copolymer of ethylene with vinyl acetate. The use of copolymers of ethylene with vinyl acetate known as EVA as pour point depressants for crude oils, heavy fuel oils and middle distillate fuels has been disclosed in British patents 900 202 and 1 147 904. It has now been discovered that the potency of EVA copolymers as cold flow improvers is enhanced by selecting EVA copolymers containing particular amounts of vinyl acetate and having a particular type of molecular structure. Accordingly, this invention provides a petroleum oil having improved cold flow properties and containing a copolymer of ethylene with vinyl acetate wherein the copolymer a contains from 22 to 36 preferably 25 to 33 by weight of the copolymer of vinyl acetate, b has a melt flow index of 50 to 1000 preferably 200 to 700 g 10 minutes as measured according to British Standard 2782 Part 1 105of 1976 using a 2.16 kg load, and c contains less than 14 preferably 5 to 11 pendant methyl groups per 1000 carbon atoms of the copolymer as determined by nuclear magnetic resonance.Pendant methyl groups are methyl groups which are attached to the carbon chain of the copolymer either directly or as part of a larger alkyl group which is itself attached directly to the chain. Structure I illustrates a directly attached pendant methyl group.EMI1.2 Structure II illustrates methyl groups attached as part of pendant butyl groups. EMI2.1 Preferably, at least 90 of the pendant methyl groups should be attached to the chain as part of larger alkyl groups, preferably as part of an alkyl group containing at least 4 carbon atoms. Reducing the number of pendant methyl groups appears to make the EVA copolymer more potent in its effect on the crystallisation of material in the oil and therefore improves the flow of the oil when cold. It is also preferred that the EVA should have particular melting and crystallisation characteristics as determined by a process known as differential scanning calorimetry known as DSC . DSC comprises heating and or cooling the EVA under conditions such that the change in temperature of the EVA is constant with respect to time.This enables physical changes such as melting and crystallisation to be monitored by measuring the heat changes necessary to maintain a constant change in temperature with respect to time. A particular DSC procedure hereinafter referred to as the DSC 160 test consists of heating a sample of EVA from 00C to 1600C at a rate of increase in temperature of 20C per minute, maintaining the EVA at 1600C for 2 minutes, then cooling it back to 00C at a rate of cooling of 20C per minute, maintaining the EVA at 00C for 2 minutes and then reheating it to 1600C at the rate of 20C per minute. During cooling the temperatures at which crystallisation commences T5 and at which the rate of crystallisation with respect to time reaches a maximum Tc are noted. During re heating the temperatures at which the rate of melting reaches a maximum with respect to time Tp and at which melting is complete Tm are noted. A preferred EVA has a a T5 of over 520C, especially in the range 55 to 600C, and or b a Tc of over 450C, especially in the range 47 to 540C, and or c a Tp of over 650C, especially in the range 68 to 10 730C, and or d a Tm of over 820C, especially in the range 84 to 870C. The EVA copolymer may be conveniently made by a freeradical initiated copolymerisation of ethylene with vinyl acetate. Examples of such a process are given in Chapter 2 of the second edition of the book Polythene , edited byA Renfrew and P Morgan and published in 1960 in London byIliffe. Preferably, the EVA is made using a continuous stirred autoclave process carried out at a pressure of from 100 to 300 MN m2 and a temperature of from 120 to 2500C. If chain transfer agents are used in the copolymerisation, they are preferably hydrogen or alkanes, especially propane. The econditions of pressure, temperature and the concentration of chain transfer agent are adjusted to obtain the required melt flow index. The EVA may be added to crude oil, heavy fuel oils especially fuel oils containing distillation residue lubricating oils or middle distillates, especially gas oils such as Diesel oil. The EVA may be pumped into oil wells to reduce the tendency for crystallised waxes to impede the flow of crude oil from the well. Concentrations of 0.001 to 10 especially 0.005 to 1 by weight of EVA on the weight of oil are preferred.However, masterbatches of EVA and oil cont fling much higher concentrations of EVA e.. up to 80 may be used to facilitate dispersion of the EVA in an oil. The invention is illustrated by the followingExamples. EXAMPLES Samples of crude oil from North Africa were each in turn heated to 900C, held at that temperature for 2 minutes and then cooled to 600C at a constant rate of cooling at 20C per minute using the DSC technique. The temperature at which crystallisation commences T5 and at which the rate of crystallisation with respect to time reaches a maximum Tc was noted and entered into Table 1. This procedure was carried out on a sample of oil containing no EVA Comparative Example A , on samples of oil containing various concentrations as set out in Table 1 of a commercially available EVA Comparative Example B and on samples of oil containing various concentrations also set out in Table 1 of a preferred EVA Example 1 . The commercially available EVA contained 28 by weight of copolymerised vinyl acetate, had a melt flow index of 400 g 10 minutes and contained 18.7 pendant methyl groups per 1000 carbon atoms of the copolymer.About 50 of the pendant methyl groups were attached directly to the copolymer chain and about 50 were attached as part of a larger alkyl group. The melting and crystallistion characteristics of this EVA as determined by the DSC 160 test are set out in Table 2. The preferred EVA also contained 28 by weight of copolymerised EVA and had a melt flow index of 400 g 10 minutes. The preferred copolymer contained only 8.8 pendant methyl groups per 1000 carbon atoms of the copolymer and over 90 of these were attached to the copolymer chain as part of an alkyl group containing at least four carbon atoms. The preferred EVA had been made by a free radical initiated copolymerisation of ethylene and vinyl acetate carried out continuously in a stirred autoclave reactor using propane as a chain transfer agent. Although the DSC is not necessarily a very sensitive test for assessing the improvement in cold flow properties in petroleum oils, it nevertheless indicates that crystallisation occurs at lower temperatures in the presence of the preferred EVA from which it can be deduced that the cold flow properties of the oil will be improved. TABLE 1EMI5.1 tb Example SEP Concentration SEP of SEP T SEP OC SEP SEP Tc SEP 0C SEP tb SEP EVA SEP g SEP SEP by SEP weight tb SEP A SEP 53 SEP 50 tb SEP 0.001 SEP i SEP SEP 49.5 tb SEP B SEP 0.01 SEP 52.0 SEP 49.5 tb SEP 0.25 SEP 52.5 SEP 49.5 tb SEP 1.0 SEP 47.0 SEP 43.5 tb SEP 0.001 SEP 52.0 SEP tb SEP 1 SEP 0.01 SEP 51.0 SEP 49.0 tb SEP 0.25 SEP 50.5 SEP 48.5 tb SEP 1.0 SEP 45.0 SEP 42.5 tb TABLE 2EMI5.2 tb SEP EVA SEP T SEP OC SEP SEP TCOC SEP SEP TP C SEP Tm SEP 0C SEP tb Commercial SEP EVA SEP 49.0 SEP 39.0 SEP 60.0 SEP 81.0 tb Preferred SEP EVA SEP 57.0 SEP 49. SEP S SEP SEP 70.5 SEP 85.0 tb