# Structure for retrofitting corrugated building exteriors.

## Abstract
A building structure comprising a corrugated protec tive layer 11 having crests 17 and valleys 18 , a plural ity of rigid metal securement strips 26 applied over the corrugated protective layer 11 , an outer weather resistant covering 38 applied over the rigid metal securement strips 26 , and connecting means 22 for securing said building elements together. A layer of insulation 37 may be included between the rigid metal securement strips 26 and exterior weather resistant covering 38 . The outer weather resistant covering 38 , the layer of insulation 37 , and the metal securement strips 26 can be secured to the corrugated protective layer 11 without disturbing the preexisting structure.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A building structure comprising a corrugatedlike inner sheath configurated with crests and valleys, characterized by a plurality of rigid metal securement strips applied in a spaced arrangement over the inner sheath so as to transversely span the crests of the sheath, an outer weather resistant covering applied over the rigid metal securement strips, and connecting means for securing said building elements together. 2. The building structure of claim 1, wherein the inner sheath is secured to its substructure by fastening means which extends through and projects exteriorly of the inner sheath, and characterized in that the metal securement strips are secured to the inner sheath. by attachments to said fastening means. 3. The building structure of claim 2, wherein the inner sheath is a member selected from the group consisting of a cement asbestos roof and a metal sheeting roof, the inner sheath being secured to a plurality of underlying parallel spaced purl ins by horizontally extending fasteners whose upper ends extend through and project exteriorly of the crests of the inner sheath, and characterized in that each of the metal securement strips comprises a long, thin strip wh.ich is secured to the inner sheath by attachments to the upper ends of the fasteners. 4. The building structure of claim 3, wherein the inner sheath. is secured to the underlying purl ins by horizontally extending bolts whose upper free ends extend through and project exteriorly of the crests of the inner sheath, a washer and nut combination being placed onto each of the bolts and adjacent the crest upper surface to fasten the bolt, and characterized in that each of the metal securement strips comprises a long, thin strip having a longitudinally extending central section with downwardly and outwardly extending sidewalls integrally connected along the two longitudinally extending edges of the central section, and apertured dimples centrally located on the strip central section and spaced along its length so as to enclose each of the washer and nut combinations and to permit the bolt upper free end to penetrate through its aperture, and a second washer and nut combination is placed onto each of the bolts and adjacent the dimple upper surface to fasten the bolt. 5. The building structure of claim 4, characterized in that the longitudinally extending metal securement strips of each roof span comprise a number of strips placed lengthwise one after the other in an end to end overlapping arrangement. 6. The building structure of any of claims 1 to 5, characterized in that a layer of insulation is included between the metal securement strips and outer weather resistant covering. 7. The building structure of claim 6, characterized in that the outer weather resistant covering comprises a roll formed aluminum sheet. 8. The building structure of claim 6 or 7, characterized in that the layer of insulation is a foam plastic insulation board, a composite foam cellulose fiber insulation board, a perlite insulation board, a composite board of perlite and plastic foam, a rigid wood fiber insulation board, and a surfaced semi rigid blanket thermal insulation. 9. The building structure of claim 7, characterized in that the outer weather resistant covering, the layer of insulation and the metal securement strips are secured together by fasteners which penetrate through the three said building elements. 10. A method of installing an exterior structure onto an existing corrugated like inner sheath configurated with crests and valleys, characterized by securing a plurality of rigid metal securement strips in a spaced arrangement over the inner sheath so as to transversely span the crests of the sheath, and further securing an outer weather resistant covering over the rigid metal securement strips.

## Description
This invention relates to a structure for retrofitting corrugated building exteriors. There is a need to better thermally insulate the exterior roof and wall structures of existing buildings retrofit in these times of diminishing and ever more costly energy resources. The escalation of energy costs in recent years has been accompanied by increased concern on the part of home owners, the owners of commercial buildings, builders and utility companies for economical, high efficiency thermal insulation systems. The task of insulating existing buildings Cretrofitting is often complicated because of the design and or composition of the particular structures already in place in these buildings. Where the exterior surface of the building is in the shape of corrugations or regularly or irregularly spaced configurations of equal or dissimilar height or the like, it is difficult and costly to properly and securely attach a retrofitted building structure to the surface. Furthermore, whatever attachment method is employed should not adversely affect the insulating efficiency of the retrofitted structure. In addition, it is advantageous if the preexisting building structure can be utilized without any basic changes to that structure. Timber battens have heretofore been used as fastening means in building structures, as, e.g., on flat concrete roofs. Unfortunately, there are various drawbacks in the use of this type of fastening system, among which may be mentioned its combustibility, susceptibility to drying out, warping and cracking, less than desirable strength to weight ratio and dimensional stability, and undesirably thick cross sectional profile. Presently, there are literally thousands of buildings whose roofs are in need of repair. The existing roofs, having seen years of service and weathering, are deteriorating and rusting out, are under insulated, and are subject to leaks, etc. These buildings with roll formed metal or corrugated cement asbestos roofs enclose millions of square feet of uninsulated space. It would be highly desirable if a strong, lightweight, incombustible, simple, easily installed and economical to utilize fixing structure could be found for the application of an insulation layer and cover sheet assembly to these difficult to insulate corrugated structures. It is therefore an object of the present invention to provide an improved insulated building structure, which is designed for application to the exterior side of an existing corrugated like building structure, particularly to a corrugated like roof structure. The present invention provides a building structure comprising a corrugated like inner sheath configurated with crests and valleys, a plurality of rigid metal securement strips applied in a spaced arrangement over the inner sheath. so as to transversely span the crests of the sheath an outer weather resistant covering applied over the rigid metal securement strips, and connecting means for securing said building elements together. The present invention also provides a method of installing an exterior structure onto an existing corrugated like inner sheath configurated with crests and valleys, comprising securing a plurality of rigid metal securement strips in a spaced arrangement over the inner sheath so as to transversely span the crests of the sheath, and further securing an outer weather resistant covering over the rigid metal securement strips. In accordance with the invention, the metal strips securely attach a retrofitting structure to the exterior of a corrugated like building structure without basically altering the preexisting building structure. The metal strips are applied so as to span the surface profile of the existing building structure from edge to edge in a grid like manner, the strips being positioned on and lying transverse to the crests of said exterior. An insulation layer may be applied over the network of rigid metal strips to provide a complete insulating envelope over the existing building structure.The outer weather resistant covering is applied over the insulation to form a weatherproof barrier. The assembly of rigid metal securement strips of the invention provides a unique interface between existing and new building structures, and functions as both an attachment means and a support for the application of the new retrofitted structure to the existing one. The interface securement system of the invention can be utilized for the external retrofit of an insulation board and covering assembly to the corrugated exteriors of both roofs and walls. The securement system is especially suited for the retrofit of existing buildings with corrugated cement asbestos roofs and walls, where the existing panel hook bolts can be used for securing the system, without the need for any loosening or removal of the hook bolts. The invention will now be described with reference to the accompanying drawings, in which Figure 1 is a fragmentary perspective view of a roof structure illustrating the application of this invention, with portions broken away to show the internal construction of the structure including the existing roof sheet, metal securement strips, insulation layer and weatherproof barrier Figure 2 is a cross sectional profile of another existing roof sheet which can be retrofitted in accordance with this invention Figure 3 is an enlarged fragmentary top view of the metal securement strip of Figure 1, showing the dimple for accommodating the washer and nut of the existing roof bolt Figure 4 is a cross sectional view taken on line 4 4 of Figure 3 and Figure 5 is an enlarged fragmentary perspective view of a metal securement strip constructed in accordance with another embodiment of the invention. This invention will be described as embodied in a retro fitted roof structure constructed with the arrangement of the parts as illustrated in Figure 1. The attachment and insulation systems of the invention are especially useful in retrofitting existing corrugated roofs of commercial buildings. It is to be understood, however, that the dimensions, arrangement and assembly of the parts shown in this typical construction could be changed in various ways, and the concept of the invention would still be effective in providing for the secure attachment of an exterior structure, especially an insulating one, to a corrugated like building structure configurated with crests and valleys. Referring now in particular to Figure 1, there is illustrated an existing roof structure 10 comprising, in general, a roof sheet 11 secured to a supporting skeletal framework, which is provided by a plurality of spaced, longitudinally extending purl ins 12 only one shown in Figure 1 . By way of example, the roof of a commercial building might have 23 such purlins. The purlins are conventionally mounted on underlying rafters in a parallel spaced relation. Each purlin 12 preferably has an approximately I shaped cross sectional configuration formed by a longitudinally extending upper flange 13 connected to a lower flange 14 by a central web portion 15, the upper and lower flanges extending perpendicularly to web 15.The configuration of purlin 12 can be formed such that relatively thin light material can be used to fabricate the purlin which yet retains suf ficient strength to form adequate support in the roof structure. The roof sheet 11 comprises a cement asbestos composite, a suitably protected metal sheeting, such as painted galvanized steel, painted aluminum alloys, asphaltasbestos coated galvanized steel, etc. or any other conventional existing roof structure and usually consists of a plurality of individual sections 16. Sections 16 have a generally corrugated profile, which is characterized by crests 17 and valleys 18 connected by inclined side walls 19 See Figure 1 . The crested profile of the existing roof sheet to be retrofitted in accordance with the invention can have a virtually unlimited number of configurations, both sinusoidal and non sinusoidal. Any existing roof surface which has crests capable of being spanned can be retrofitted.The cross sectional profile of another such existing roof sheet 11 configurated with crests and valleys is illustrated in Figure 2.Sections 16 are adapted to span over the upper surfaces of adjacent purlins 12. This roof sheet arrangement, however, may vary with the specific building site being retrofitted. The individual sections 16 are conti guously aligned in an overlapping side by side and end to end arrangement to form the existing roof sheet 11, and are secured together to purlins 12, with 4 sections overlapping in the roof field and 2 sections overlapping at the roof perimeter. For purpose of illustration in the cutoff view of Figure 1, only a perimeter roof overlap 20 is shown. The attachment can be accomplished by any suitable fastening means, including rivets, nuts and bolts, etc. Each roof section 16 can also be secured to purlin 12 at various intermediate points along its side length, such as at point 21 shown in Figure 1.Roof sections 16 are advantageously secured to purl ins 12 by fasteners placed through their crest portions. Suitable fasteners 22 for securing the roof section or sections to the purlin are shown in Figure 1.Fastener 22 comprises a roof bolt 23 clamping the purl in 12 and sections 16 together and extending through sections 16 with a washer and nut combination 24 securing the sections at the upper end of the bolt.As can be seen in Figure 1, the washer and nut combination 24 is located adjacent the upper surface and at the crest of a given roof sheet section, with the upper end 25 of the bolt projecting a short distance beyond the washer and nut combination. In practice a weatherproof cap or shield is placed over the exposed portion of bolt 23 above washer and nut combination 24 to protect the threads, otherwise exposed to the elements. To this point, a conventional roof structure has been described.The improved structure for retrofitting the existing building exterior will now be described. Referring now to Figure 1, each attachment strip 26 comprises an elongated sheet of metal which is secured to the existing roof structure, preferably at points along the upper surface of the roof sheet 11 at the crests thereof. Suitable methods of securement include through fasteners to the existing purl in or girt, welding to the existing roof or wall sheet, etc. Securement strip 26 advantageously comprises a long, narrow, rigid strip of metal which is applied transversely to the crests 17 of roof sheet 11. A number of strips 26 can be placed lengthwise one after the other in an end to end abutting or overlapping arrangement to thereby span the entire roof sheet being covered in a continuous manner from one edge of the roof to the other. Rows of strips 26 are spaced from each other to form a spaced grid. One such overlapping point 27 of two aligned strips is shown in Figure 1. The sheet metal strip 26 of this invention provides excellent structural characteristics while reducing weight and providing a structural shape which can be readily fabricated from sheet metal. Strips 26 can be fabricated with varying characteristics to meet different requirements of shape, strength, weight, thickness ratio, etc. For example, in roofs the strips must have sufficient lateral strength to support whatever loading is placed thereon and to resist wind loadings that might tend to lift the roof assembly.The securement strips of the invention can have anv convenient shape and thickness that accomplish the dual purposes of securing and supporting the retrofitted building assembly to the existing corrugated structure.In some cases the existing configuration may dictate special adaptations of the strips, as illustrated by the dimples utilized in the roof structure of Figures 1, 3, and 4. Strip 26 can suitably have a thickness gauge of from about 18 to 12 gauge. In a preferred embodiment, securement strips 26 are fabricated from 16 gauge galvanized metal. Two emb.odiments of the securement strip of the invention are illustrated in Figures 3 4 and Figure 5.The emb.odiment illustrated in Figures 3 4 has a central section 29 with downwardly and outwardly extending sidewalls 30 and 31 integrally connected along the longitudinally extending edges 32 and 33, respectively, of the central section, and with apertured dimples 34 spaced along its length. Central section 29 is parallel to the upper surface of purlin flange 13. Sidewalls 30 and 31 are disposed at an acute angle a with reference to the plane of central section 29. Angle a may vary from about o o to 90, relative angle to the plane of central section 29. By way of illustration the horizontal distance b see Figures 3 and 4 between the free edges of sidewalls 30 and 31 may be 3 3 4 inches the height of central section 29 above the horizontal plane perpendicular to crest 17 may be 3 8 inch the diameter of dimple 34 at its base may be 1 inch the height of dimple 34 above central section 29 may be 1 4 inch the diameter of hole 35 of the dimple may be 3 8 inch and the acute angle a 0 may be a 45 angle. In the construction shown in Figure 1, the metal securement strips or plates 26 of the invention are applied to the top surface of the existing roof, the plates being applied directly over and parallel to the existing purlins. The points of attachment of strips 26 to roof sheet 11 are made to coincide with locations of the washer nut bolt end or shank 25 assemblies which project above sheet 11. Dimples 34 see Figures 3 and 4 are centrally located along the central section 29 of each strip 26 to accommodate these projecting assemblies.Dimple 34 forms an apertured, convex shaped cover for the enclosed assembly with central hole 35 through which extends the upper free end portion or shank 25 of bolt 23.It is a simple matter to place strip 26 over the aligned upper ends 25 of exposed bolts 23 after removing the protective cap from each bolt. After the placement of the strip, a washer and nut 36 are placed over the strip 26. In the fully fastened position, washer and nut 36 are positioned on dimple 34. Figure 5 shows an alternative embodiment of the strip of the invention comprising a long, relatively thin strip of metal 28 which is flat and without a dimple at its fastener opening. This strip can be utilized, for example, where there are no projecting assemblies, such as those previously described, above roof sheet 11. The embodiment of the invention of Figure 1 illustrates an insulated retrofit of the existing roof structure. In this embodiment, thermal insulating material 37 is secured over the installed securement strips 26. Thermal insulating material 37 can advantageously comprise a rigid foam plastic thermal insulation board which is nailed or otherwise secured as a sheathing to form an insulating layer between old roof 11 and the outside new roof sheet 38, as necessary for weathering requirements not otherwise provided by the exterior of the new thermal insulation layer see Figure 1 . A foam plastic thermal insulation board, with vapor barrier characteristics, i.e., with a permeance of less than 1 perm and thus capable of interfering with the passage of moisture, is suitable for implementing this invention.The preferred foam plastic thermal insulation board 37 is a product made with a polyurethane or polyisocyanurate foam core with metal sheet facers. These facers may be aluminum adhered to the face of the foam core during the process of manufacture. The aluminum facers can act as heat reflective surfaces and as liquid or gas barriers, since the metal sheets will not permit fluids to penetrate.A suitable foam plastic thermal insulation board is one made by The Celotex Corporation of Tampa, Florida under the designation Thermax Insulation Board. Typical thermal insulation board dimensions are 4 feet wide x 12 feet long x 1 1 2 inches thick although boards of different dimensions may just as well be used to implement this invention. Both rigid and non rigid insulating layers can be employed in the building structure of the invention.The insulating material can be introduced in the form of loose fill, can be foamed in place, can be nailed, or otherwise installed by any conventional method. Other insulating materials which can be used include surfaced semi rigid blanket thermal insulation, surfaced rigid cellulosic fiber board, perlite mineral fiber, and foam board composites of the above. The thermal insulating layer of the invention can form part of a composite construction having an insulating core member and an exterior weatherproof covering member. Alternatively, a separate weatherproof exterior covering, such as the roll formed metal roof sheet 38 shown in Figure 1, can be employed. Exterior sheathing for th roof structure can be provided by any conventional weatherproof barrier used for this purpose. Figure 1 illustrates an advantageous method of securing the new insulation sheathing 37 and roof sheet 38 to the retrofitted roof structure in accordance with the present invention. Insulation boards 37 are laid down so that their long edges run parallel to crests 17 of the existing roof sheet, and the edge portions 39 along th.e width of the boards are perpendicular to said crests, with all butted joints overtaped with 2 inch wide pressure sensitive vapor barrier tape. Where necessary, shanks 25 are shortened to prevent them from projecting above insulation boards 37 when the latter are set in place. Roof sheet 38 is next applied over insulation sheathing 37 and secured in place by suitable fasteners. As seen in Figure 1, fasteners 40 can be placed so as to lock together sheet 38, sheathing 37 and securement strip 26.At appropriately spaced intervals along each course where the roof sheet 38 and insulation sheathing 37 retrofit composite lies over the corresponding securement strip 26, fasteners 40 are driven through said composite into the underlying securement strip. Other fastening means can, of course, be employed. For example, a single fastener can be driven through the entire retrofitted composite, including the securement strip, and into the existing corrugated roof sheet. In a typical retrofitted roof structure of the invention, a roll formed aluminum roof sheet 38 is applied over insulation board 37 and secured at 8 inches on center laterally perpendicular to crests 17 and 5 1 2 feet on center longitudinally parallel to crests 17 to the retrofit securement plates 26 with self drilling fasteners 40, each having a stainless steel washer, neoprene grommet and plastic cap.Flashing at the roof edges can be installed in a conventional manner. Where required for flashing securement, fasteners can be secured through top sheet 38 and insulation board 37 into the top center of the lapped roof corrugations. The retrofitting securement strips of the invention provide a highly effective interfacial attachment system for securely linking together dissimilar roof sheets Cexisting new . They provide a thin profiled interface which permits a completely insulating thermal envelope to b.e installed over an existing roof and or wall structure. The securement strips are especially effective in providing an interfacial attachment substrate to existing corrugated cement asbestos roof and walls, utilizing existing panei hook bolts of the structure for attachment. No removal or loosening of the hook bolt is required. Furthermore, shorter retrofit fasteners may be used, since they are not required to penetrate through the total old and new composites. Also, the strips furnish a high degree of lateral stiffness to wide pitch existing roofs. The metal securement strips of the invention fill an urgent need for a low profile substrate to existing exterior roofs and walls of pre engineered buildings buildings with roll formed metal panel or corrugated cement asbestos exterior cover sheeting . The substrate provides a lightweight but strong securement ground to receive a retrofit insulation board and retrofit cover sheet through fasteners securing the retrofit composite to the low profile substrate.