# Pasteurized therapeutically active protein compositions.

## Abstract
Compositions containing thermally sensitive, thera peutically active proteins are pasteurized without substan tial loss of therapeutic activity by mixing the protein com position with a pasteurization stabilizing amount of a poly ol prior to pasteurization. Pasteurized compositions con taining therapeutically active proteins, which have hereto fore been unattainable, can be prepared by the method of the invention.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A protein composition substantially free of infective hepatitis comprising a thermally sensitive, therapeutically active protein selected from the group consisting of antihemophilic factor Factor VIII , fibronectin, FactorVIII inhibiting bypass activity substance, a modified immune serum globulin, fibrinogen, a l antitrypsin, plasma growth hormone, somatomedin, prealbumin, plasminogen streptokinase complex, ceruloplasmin, transferrin, haptoglobin, defatted albumin, defatted Plasma Protein Fraction human , kininogen, hemoglobin and prekallikrein. 2. A pasteurized composition comprising a thermally sensitive, therapeutically active protein selected from the group consisting of antihemophilic factor Factor VIII , fibronectin plasma, an immune serum globulin, Factor VIII inhibiting bypass activity substance, a modified immune serum globulin, fibrinogen, a l antitrypsin, plasma growth hormone, somatomedin, prealbumin, plasminogen streptokinase complex, ceruloplasmin, transferin, haptoglogin, defatted albumin, defatted Plasma Protein Fraction human kininogen, hemoglobin and prekallikrein. 3. The freeze dried composition of claim 1 or 2. 4. A method for pasteurizing a composition containing a thermally sensitive, therapeutically active protein capable of being stabilized during pasteurization in the presence of a polyol, which comprises a mixing the composition with a polyol, said polyol being present in an amount sufficient to stabilize the protein during pasteurization and b heating the mixture at a temperature and for a time sufficient to pasteurize the protein composition. 5. The method of claim 4 wherein the composition is mixed with an aqueous solution containing about 10 to saturation of a polyol, on a weight to volume basis. 6. The method of claim 4 or 5 wherein the composition inStep a is mixed further with an amino acid in an amount sufficient to stabilize the composition during pasteurization. 7. The method of claims 4 to 6 wherein the pH of the mixture of Step a is about 5.5 8.0. 8. A method for imparting thermal stability at a temperature of about 60 75 C. to a composition containing a thermally sensitive therapeutically active protein capable of being stabilized in the presence of a polyol which comprises incorporating into said composition a polyol in a thermalstabilizing amount. 9. The method of claims 4 to 8 wherein the thermally sensitive, therapeutically active protein is selected from the group consisting of antihemophilic factor Factor VIII , fibronectin, plasminogen, albumin, an immune serum globulin, a modified immune serum globulin, antithrombin III, Plasma Protein Fraction human , Factor VIII inhibiting bypass activity substance, fibrinogen, a l antitrypson, plasma growth hormone, somatomedin, prealbumin, plasminogen streptokinase complex, ceruloplasmin,hemo globin, transferrin, haptoglobin, kininogen and prekallikrein. 1O. The method of claims 4 to 9 wherein the protein composition in Step a is mixed further with an amino acid in an amount sufficient to stabilize the protein during pasteurization and the pH of the mixture is about 5.5 8.0.

## Description
PASTEURIZED THERAPEUTICALLY ACTIVE PROTEIN COMPOSITIONS 1. Field of the Invention This invention relates to and has among its objects novel compositions for therapeutic use and methods of making them. It is a particular object of this invention to provide pasteurized compositions containing therapeutically active proteins. Further objects of the invention will be evident from the following description wherein parts and percentages are by weight unless otherwise specified. 2. Description of the Prior Art Many useful blood fractions and blood proteins are obtained from human blood plasma by fractionation according to known techniques such as, for example, the alcohol fractionation method of Cohn described in U.S. Patent No. 2,390,074 1945 and the Journal of theAmerican Chemical Society, Vol. 68, page 459 1946 and theRivanolR ammonium sulfate method. The aforementioned methods as well as other variations and techniques are summarized in The Plasma Proteins , second edition, Volume III, pages 548 550,Academic Press, New York, New York 1977 . These blood fractions contain biologically active proteins that possess certain therapeutic qualities.For instance, Factor VIII or antihemophilic factor is useful against hemophilia plasminogen is a precursor of plasmin for treatment of acute thromboembolic disorders immune serum globulin IgG is employed in the treatment of congenital gamma globulin deficiency, measles, poliomyelitis and hepatitis A and B fibronectin has been identified as active in treatment of burns, shock, cancer, etc. antith mbin III is a coagulation inhibitor, cryoprecipitate itself may be used directly for classic hemophilia Plasma Protein Fraction human and albumin are useful in treatment of shock due to burns, crushing injuries, abdominal emergencies, and any other cause producing a predominant loss of plasma fluids and not red cells immune globulin, intravenous modified immune serum globulin is a substitute for immune serum globulin administerable in larger quantities Factor VIII inhibitor bypassing active FEIBA substance described in U.S. Patent 4,160,025 as a blood coagulation promoting preparation for Factor VIII inhibitor patients 0 l antitrypsin can be employed in the treatment of emphysema plasma growth hormone corrects pituitary growth deficiency, somatomedin is useful in correcting growth deficiencies, other immune serum globulins, e.g., IgA, IgD, IgE, andIgM, may be employed to treat various immune protein deficiencies prealbumin U.S. Patent 4,046,877 is employed to increase immunologic competence plasminogen streptokinase complex U.S. Patent 4,178,368 can be administered to patients for treatment of thromboembolisms ceruloplasmin, transferrin, haptoglobin, and prekallikrein have reagent and other uses. One problem confronting users of plasma, plasma fractions, and compositions containing individual blood proteins is the thermal instability of the therapeutically active proteins contained therein. In many cases, substantial, and sometimes complete, losses of activity are observed if these proteins are heated above physiological temperatures, i.e., above about 40 45 C. Consequently, these items require special care during preparation and storage to minimize such deactivation. The thermal instability of the aforementioned proteins renders them unpasteurizable. Therapeutically active proteins isolated from plasma may contain viruses, e.g., hepatitis virus, present in the source material for the protein fraction, namely, blood from a donor. A risk of contracting hepatitis exists, therefore, for those receiving unpasteurized fractions from blood plasma fractionation because the presence of the virus cannot be detected with certainty by any known procedure. In a large number of situations, this risk is outweighed by the detriment to a patient in not receiving the therapeutic plasma fraction as determined by the physician. Some therapeutically active proteins derived from plasma have been pasteurized successfully. For example, it is well known that albumin can be pasteurized by heating at 600C. or 640C. for 10 hours Gellis et al., J. Clin. Invest.,Vol. 27, pages 239 244 1948 in the presence of certain stabilizers such as acetyl tryptophan and sodium caprylate.Individuals receiving this pasteurized material did not contract hepatitis, thus indicating the inactivation of hepatitis virus while retaining the activity of albumin under the afore described heating conditions. Plasma Protein Fraction human is also stabilized during pasteurization by the above method. A process for pasteurizing plasminogen is disclosed by Baumgarten et al. in U.S. Patent 3,227,626. An aqueous preparation containing 0.25 20 milligrams per milliliter mg ml of plasminogen and further containing 0.1 0.5 molar lysine with 9 pH of 5.3 7.5 was heated at 600C. for 10 hours. As the patentee states, hepatitis virus was destroyed and the danger of transmitting hepatitis was removed with retention of plasminogen activity. Attempts to pasteurize plasminogen under the above conditions in the absence of lysine resulted in complete destruction of plasminogen activity. It is interesting to note that plasminogen cannot be stabilized with Nacetyl tryptophan and sodium caprylate during pasteurization, nor can albumin and Plasma Protein Fraction human be pasteurized in the presence of lysine. Singher has described a process for treating plasminogen to produce a material that is not contaminated with hepatitis virus U.S. Patent 2,897,123 . In the patented pasteurization technique aqueous solutions of plasminogen are heated at about 600C. for about 10 hours. The activity of plasminogen is retained if the solutions have a pH in the range not less than 3 nor greater than 6.5 and an ionic strength not greater than 0.3. Another method for removing hepatitis virus from a biological material is described in U.S. Patent 4,168,300.The material to be treated is contacted with a preparation, which may be agarose gel or beaded polyacrylamide plastic coupled with a variety of hydrophobic ligands. Plasma and albumin were subjected to the above purification technique to remove hepatitis virus. Aqueous solutions of the enzyme thrombin have been stabilized Seegers, Arch. Biochem., 1944, Vol. 3, pages 363 367 during heating at SO0C. in the presence of saturation amounts of certain glycosides. The stabilized solutions were heated at the above temperature for a period of 48 hours or more with minimal loss of dstiVity. On the other hand, Seegers also discloses that glycosides and polyols have only minimal effectiveness in stabilizing the enzyme prothrombin. The reversible denaturation of lysozyme and ribonuclease was studied byGerlsma et al., lint. J. Pept1ae Protein Res., Vol. 4, pages 377 383 1972 .The authors found that certain polyhydric alcohols increased somewhat the temperatures at which these enzymes were denatured. Finally, Simpson et al., in J. Am. Chem. Soc., Vol. 75, No. 21, pages 5139 5152 1953 andDonovan in J. Sci. Fd. Agric., Vol. 28, pages 571 578 1977 noted that the denaturation temperature of ovalbuirin an egg white protein was raised slightly in the presence of sucrose in aqueous solutions of the protein. However, Donovan points out that the temperatures of denaturation of ovalbumin and S ovalbumin are 84.50C. and 92.50C., respectively. Furthermore, ovalbumin and S ovalbumin, as well as the aforementioned enzymes, have no therapeutic activity in treating disorders in humans, whereas blood plasma proteins are therapeutically active. In fact, as mentioned below, proteolytic enzymes deactivate blood plasma proteins. Singher, in the aforementioned U.S. Patent, lists some methods of destroying hepatitis virus. The least effective of these methods involves the use of either nitrogen mustard or ffi propiolactone. High energy irradiation in appropriate dosage is effective but destroys biological activity when applied to human blood products. Heat is recognized also as effective against hepatitis virus, the preferred treatment being heating the material at 600C. for 10 hours. Higher temperatures above 700C.for shorter intervals or lower temperatures for longer intervals have also been tried with successful results. However, it is important to note that higher temperatures are undesirable because of the potential for denaturation of the proteins. Furthermore, lower temperatures for long intervals are to be avoided because various proteolytic enzymes are activated under these conditions, and these activated enzymes cause protein degradation. Also, the use of temperatures lower than 60 C. for pasteurization has not been shown to consistently yield a material that does not contain the infective virus. As mentioned above, the recognition that heating at 60 C. and 640C. for 10 hours successfully destroys the hepatitis virus in albumin was made by Gellis et al., supra. Gellis et al. proved experimentally that albumin heated under the above conditions did not transmit hepatitis even if hepatitis virus was present prior to pasteurization. However, the author noted that hepatitis virus survived heating at 560C. for one hour, a temperature usually employed for the inactivation of viruses. Thus, although heating atiemperatures of about 56 0C. for one hour will deactivate most viruses, hepatitis virus is not inactivated and materials containing hepatitis virus, which are heated at 560C. for one hour, cause infection of hepatitis in individuals receiving such materials. In German Offenlegungsschrift No. 29 16 711 which is no prior publication to the instant invention, a method is described for heat stabilisation of aqueous solutions of plasminogen, antihemophilic factors II, VIII and XIII and antithrombin III by adding an amino acid and a monosaccharide, oligosaccharide or sugar alcohol to the solutions. Summary of the Invention The invention described herein provides means for obviating the above outlined problems. In the method of the invention certain compositions containing thermally sensitive, therapeutically active proteins are rendered heat stable during pasteurization or heating at a temperature of about 60 750C. by mixing with heat stabilizing or pasteurization stabilizing amounts of a polyol. Pasteurized compositions containing t erapeutically active proteins heretofore unobtainable are available as a result of the process of our invention by heating a mixture of unpasteurized protein composition and a polyol suspended or solubilized usually in an aqueous medium at a temperature and for a time sufficient to pasteurize the protein composition. Significantly, the heat sensitive protein composition can be pasteurized with a polyol as the sole heat stabilizing agent. Following pasteurization or heat treatment, the polyol is removed totally or in part, as desired, from the protein composition by conventional techniques, and the pasteurized protein composition is processed according to conventional procedures for its ultimate therapeutic use. The primary advantage of the invention is the availability of thermally stable and pasteurized therapeutically active protein compositions, which heretofore have been unknown and unattainable. Since the therapeutically active protein compositions of the invention can be heated with minimal loss of activity under conditions known to inactivate hepatitis virus, these valuable materials can be administered to patients, who can obtain the full therapeutic benefits thereof with a substantially reduced risk of being infected by the hepatitis virus Another advantage of the invention is that it may be applied to blood plasma prior to fractionation, to partially fractionated blood plasma, and to individual blood plasma fractions, as well as to individual blood plasma proteins themselves. Thus, the versatility of the present process can be seen.Pasteurization of blood plasma prior to fractionation allows fractionation techniques other than the Cohn process to be applied to whole plasma. In this fashion the yield of albumin can be increased by about 20 or more. To date the Cohn process has been relied upon to secure certain therapeutic fractions such as immune serum globulin which without pasteurization have a historv of beina non hepatitis infective. It must be remembered that immune serum globulin has not been pasteurized prior to this invention. Brief Description of the Drawings Fig. 1 is a three dimensional view showing the relationship between sucrose concentration, concentration of modified immune serum globulin, and percent change in opalescence after pasteurization in the presence of sucrose. Description of the Preferred Embodiments As mentioned above, the products of the invention include pasteurized or heat treated compositions comprising a thermally sensitive, therapeutically active protein capable of being stabilized during pasteurization or heating at temperatures of about 60 750C., preferably about 60 7Pc. when mixed with thermal stabilizing or pasteurization stabilizing amounts of a polyol, the pasteurized compositions containing or being free of polyol. In the method of the invention, the protein composition to be pasteurized is suspended or dissolved in an aqueous medium with an amount of polyol sufficient to stabilize the protein composition during subsequent pasteurization. The concentration of polyol necessary to stabilize a protein composition in accordance with this invention depends on the type and concentration of therapeutically active protein in the protein composition and on the type of polyol itself. Generally, the thermalstabilizing amount or pasteurization stabilizing amount should be within the range of about 1 1000 parts,preferably 5 100 parts, of polyol per part of total protein in the. protein. composition. Generally, about one part of protein composition is mixed with about 1 500 parts, preferably 4 200 parts, of an aqueous medium containing at least about 1Q , preferably at least about 30 , to saturation, preferably at the temperature of pasteurization of polyol, on a. weight to voluma basic, The therapeutically active protein is considered to he stabilized if it retains a substantial portion, i.e., at least 40 , of its therapeutic activity during pasteuriz ation. It is preferred that 7a or more of the therareutic activity of the protein composition be retained during pasteurization.Consequently, the amount of polyol to be added should be such as to retain the above recited amount of therapeutic activity. After the protein composition has been mixed with the polyol, the mixture is heated at a temperature and for a time sufficient to pastuerize it. Thus, the mixture is pasteurized upon heating it under conditions known to inactivate hepatitis virus. Effective pasteurization to inactivate hepatitis virus and to substantially reduce the risk of hepatitis infection is obtained by heating an unpasteurized protein composition at a temperature of about 60 750C., preferably about 60 700C. for a period of about 10 hours, usually about 62 650C. for about 10 hours. The pasteurization is carried out under pH conditions which approximate physiological conditions. Thus, the pH of the mixture usually should be within the range of about 5.5 8.0, preferably about 6.0 7.5. In general, physiological conditions are desirable, where possible, during pasteurization to insure the least disturbance to the therapeutically active protein composition. The amount of a particular polyol required to stabilize a specific protein composition during pasteurization and the conditions necessary to pasteurize the composition can be determined readily by one skilled in the art using pilot trials in accordance with the teaching contained herein. Following pasteurization the mixture of polyol and protein composition may be treated to remove all or part of the polyol. Conventional techniques can be employed to achieve this end. For example, the mixture can be dialyzed or diafiltered using an appropriate semi permeable membrane. Other means of removing the polyol will be suggested to those skilled in the art. The pasteurized mixture may be treated to remove water therefrom by procedures well known in the art. For instance, the mixture can be freeze dried or ultrafiltered and then freeze dried. Furthermore, the mixture can be sterile filtered by conventional methods prior to water removal. The pasteurized protein compositions of the invention can be formulated into pharmaceutical preparations for therapeutic use. To prepare it for intravenous administration the protein composition is dissolved usually in water containing physiological substances such as sodium chloride, glycine, and the like and having a buffered pH compatible with physiological conditions.Generally, guidelines for intravenously administered protein compositions are established by governmental regulation. Thermally sensitive, therapeutically active proteins included within the scope of the invention are those proteins generally administered to patients for preventative and or curative purposes, which lose some therapeutic activity when heated above about 40 450C. and which are capable of being stabilized during pasteurization or heating at a temperature of about 60 750C. in the presence of a polyol. Examples of therapeutically active Proteins that may be pasteurized in accordance with the present invention, by way of illustration and not limitation, are those proteins derived from venous blood plasma or placental plasma and include blood plasma, partially fractionated blood plasma, individual blood plasma fractions, and individual blood plasma proteins.Thus, for example, protein compositions pasteurizable by the method of the invention may include as the therapeutically active protein plasminogen, albumin, antihemophilic factor Factor VIII , Plasma Protein Fraction human ,hemoglobin, fibronectin cold insoluble globulin , an immune serum globulin such as IgG, IgA, IgD, IgE, and IgM, high molecular weight kininogen 90,000 106,000 , an immune globulin, intravenous modified, either chemically or enzymatically or by fractional separation, immune serum globulin , FEIBA, antithrombin III, alpha 1 antitrypsin, plasma proteins molecular weight 1000 30,000 having growth activity, such as plasma growth hormone, somatomedin, prealbumin, plasminogen streptokinase complex, ceruloplasmin, transferrin, haptoglobin, and prekallikrein, etc., and mixtures thereof. In addition, pasteurized compositions containing defatted albumin and defatted Plasma Protein Fraction human , i.e.,PPF human , are available through the invention. The term defatted means that the albumin and PPF human contain no more fatty acid material than that present in the native state prior to pasteurization. The pasteurized defatted compositions can be administered to patients who cannot tolerate infusion of high fatty acid material such as that obtained using standard pasteurization stabilizing agents, namely, sodium caprylate and sodium acetyl tryptophanate. It is noteworthy that antihemophilic factor B Factor IX and prekallikrein activator cannot be pasteurized in the presence of a polyol in accordance with the above method. Indeed, these proteins lose substantially all their therapeutic activity under conditions under which the aforementioned protein compositions retain a substantial portion of their activity. The term polyol means a substance with more than one hydrcDcyl group OH and includes polyhydric alcohols and carbohydrates such as sugars. It is preferred that the polyol be water miscible, physiologically compatible with the protein, and have a low molecular weight, i.e., a molecular weight less than about 5000. Higher molecular weight polyols, e.g., polysaccharides such as dextrin, starch, glycogen, cellulose, pentosans, pectin, hemicellulose, and the like, are not preferred for use in the present method because they are generally water immiscible and are difficult to separate from the protein composition after pasteurization has been completed. Typical examples of sugars that may be employed in our method are mono , di , and trisaccharides such as arabinose, glucose, galactose, fructose, ribose, mannose, rhamnose, sucrose, maltose, raffinose, melezitose, and so forth.Exemplary of polyhydric alcohols or reduced sugars, included within the purview of the invention are erythritol, ribitol, sylitol, sorhitol, mannitol, etc. Also within the compass of the invention are mixtures of polyols and substances that produce a polyol in the presence of water or heat such as hydrates, actonides, or the like. It has been found that the fibrinogen Factor I content of the protein composition to be pasteurized is an important factor, the higher the fibrinogen content, the greater the amount of carbohydrate needed. The fibrinogen content of the protein composition should he no greater than about 60 , based on the weight of total protein, or no greater than Q.6 based on the weight of solution at, for example, 54 sucrose weight to volume . m a preferred embodiment the protein composition should contain no greater than 40 fibrinogen, based on the weight of solution. rf the amount of fibrinogen in the composition to be pasteurized exceeds the above limits and the amount of carbohydrate is not increased, the thermal stability imparted to the therapeutically active proteins by the polyol is substantially reduced or lost completely. A protein composition having a fibrinogen content greater than 60 can Be pasteurized in accordance with our method 1 if the concentration of fibrinogen in the solution is below 0.6 , preferably below 0.48 or 2 if a protein capable of being stabilized during pasteurization such as albumin and the like is first added to the protein composition to lower its fibrinogen content to less than 60 the added protein generally should have the characteristic of being easily separable from the initial protein composition if necessary it may be also that the added protein is compatible with the intended therapeutic use of the initial protein composition and, thus, need not be removed therefrom , or C31 if at least about 5 parts of carbohydrate are used per part of fibrinogen. The method of the invention may he used also in conjunction with other methods for inactivating hepatitis virus such as pasteurizing protein compositions in the presence of other stabilizers such as amino acids or heating protein compositions in the presence of substances known to kill hepatitis virus. As the amino acid one way employ lysine, arginine, leucine, isoileucine, methionine, phenylalanine, threonine, tryptophan, valine, alanine, aspartic acid, cysteine, glutamic acid, glycine, histidine, proline, serine, tyrosine, and the like. Substances producing the aforesaid amino acids such as an amino acid salt and the like also may be used. It should be understood that amino acids in the absence of a polyol are not effective pasteurization stabilizing agents for those protein compositions that have been unpasteurizable prior to this invention. Important products of this invention include pasteurized aqueous mixtures of polyol and therapeutically active protein compositions. Also included within the scope of this invention are pasteurized compositions free of polyol but containing a therapeutically active protein and those pasteurized protein compositions being free of polyol and water. Pharmaceutical preparations containing therapeutic amounts of a protein composition pasteurized in accordance with the present invention are also contemplated. Particular products of the invention are pasteurized compositions containing therapeutically active proteins that have not been pasteurized prior to this invention. For example, the products of the invention include pasteurized compositions containing anti hemophilic factor Factor VIII , plasma growth hormone, fibronectin, l antitrypsin, ceruloplasmin, an immune serum globulin, somatomedin, prealbumin, an immune globulin, intravenous, plasminogen streptokinase complex, transferin, plasma, prekallikrein, or Anti Inhibitor Coagulant Complex commonly referred to as Factor VIII Inhibitor Bypassing Activity substance FEIBA . As mentioned above the pasteurized products of the invention may be incorporated into pharmaceutical preparations, which may be used for therapeutic purposes. However, the term pharmaceutical preparation is intended in a broader sense herein to include preparations containing a protein composition pasteurized in accordance with this invention used not only for therapeutic purposes, but also for reagent purposes as known in the art four tissue culture wherein organisms such as viruses for the production of vaccines, interferon, and the like, are grown on plasma or on plasma factions, e.g., Cohn Effluent II III, Cohn Fraction IV, Cohn Fraction V, and so forth etc. For any of the above uses it is advantageous that the protein composition be free of infective hepatitis as provided in the instant invention. The pharmaceutical preparation intended for therapeutic use should contain a therapeutic amount of a pasteurized protein composition, i.e., that amount necessary for preventative or curative health measures. If the pharmaceutica. preparation is to be employed as a reagent, then it should contain reagent amounts of pasteurized protein composition. Similarly, when used in tissue culture or a culture medium the pasteurized protein composition should contain an amount of protein composition sufficient to obtain the desired growth.It should be obvious that protein compositions pasteurized in accordance with this invention will not contain infective amounts of viruses and other organisms which are inactivated under the pasteurization conditions. The invention described above is demonstrated further by the following illustrative examples. Example 1. Pasteurization of Antihemophilic Factor A. Four vials of ROATEt antihemophilic factor Factor VIII produced by Cutter Laboratories, Inc., Berkeley,California were reconstituted in 10 ml. of water for injection wit each 1.9 mg. of protein ml . The trials were pooled and treated with sucrose 0.8 g ml . The mixture was heated at 600C . for 10 hours to pasteurize it and then dialyzed overnight against final container AHF buffer 0.3M glycine, 0.15M sodium chloride, O.OlM sodium citrate, and 1 dextrose . As a control another vial of KOATE antihemophilic factor was reconstituted with 10 ml. WFI and saturated with sucrose. The sample was stored at 50C. and was not heated at 600C. for 10 hours. The stored sample was dialyzed as described in the preceding paragraph. The pasteurized sample and the control from above were assayed as follows Total protein was determined by absorbancy measurements at 280 nanometers. Procoagulant activity VIII C was assayed by one stageActivated Partial Thromboplastin Time APTT test modified from the methods of Langdell et al., J. Lab. Clin. Med., Vol. 41, pages 637 647 1953 and Proctor et al., Am.J. Clin. Path.,Vol. 36, page 212 1961 . Ristocetin Willebrand factor activity VIII R WF was assayed with gel filtered platelets according to the method of Olson et al., Am. J. Clin. Path., Vol. 63, pages 210 218 1975 . Quantitative factor VIII antigen VIII R Ag determinations were done according to the procedure of Laurell,Anal. Biochem., Vol. 15, pages 45 52 1966 . Antiserum against the Factor VIII related proteins was obtained from Behring Diagnostics Sommerville, New Jersey . Protein species distribution was assayed by cellulose acetate electrophoresis. The results are summarized in the table below. TABLE 1 VIII C ml A20 Recovery of VIII CSample units units Pasteurized 2.0 2.5 63bControl 3.1 3.6 66bFeed 22.2 17 a units VIII C units A280 X 100 units VIII C feed units A280 feed b These results indicate that the loss in AHF activity observed results from procedures other than the pasteurization step, such as the dialysis procedure. B. AHF concentrate was prepared by a modified method of Hershgold et al., J. Lab. and Clin. Med., Vol. 67, pages 23 32 1966 from fresh frozen human plasma. To an aqueous solution of AHF concentrate was added enough sodium citrate and sodium chloride to achieve concentrations of 0.01M and O.15M, respectively, and glycine was added to a concentration of 1.6M. The mixture was held at 5 C. for 1 hour. The precipitate that formed was collected by centrifugation and removed. The solution was dialyzed against O.lM glycine, 0.01M citrate, and 0.15M sodium chloride using an Amicone hollow fiber system Amicon Corp., Bedford,Massachusetts to reach final container levels of the above materials. The AHF solution was concentrated by means of ultrafiltration using an Amicon PM10 membrane to an A280 of 20.Following this step. the AHF solution was mixed with enough sucrose to yield a sucrose solution cantaining 0.8g ml . The mixture was heated at 60 C. for 10 hours to pasteurize it and then dialyzed against final container AHF buffer. The pasteurized AHF concentrate was analyzed according to the procedures enumerated in Part A of this Example.The results are tabularized in Table 2. Example 2 Pasteurization of Modified Immune Serum Globulin Modified immune serum globulin MISG was prepared according to the method disclosed in U.S. Patent No. 3,903,262 herein incorporated by reference . The so prepared MISG after diafiltration was treated with sucrose by the addition of 0.8 g. sucrose per milliliter of MISG solution 54 . The mixture was heated at 600C. for 10 hours to pasteurize it. The pasteurized material was diluted with an equal volume of WFI and diafiltered against WFf using a Romicon GM 80 diafilter Romicon Corporation, Woburn, Massachusetts for seven volume exchanges at room temperature and physiological pH of about 6.8 4. After diafiltration, the MISG solution was formulated to give a 5 MISG aqueous solution containing O.lN glycine and 10 maltose and then was sterile filtered. RecoverySample Vol. A280 VIII C VIIIR WF VIII Ag VIII Ag VIII C VIIIR WF 1. u ml u ml u ml VIII WF Pasteurited 2.89 5 1.1 1.6 1.8 1.6 66 61Feed solution 1.93 8.1 3.6 3.0 8.8 2.9 100 100 As a control an unpasteurized 5 MISG aqueous solution containing 0.1M glycine and 10 maltose was prepared from MISG as produced by the process of U.S. Patent No. 3,903,262. The pasteurized MISG solution and the control were assayed for anticomplement AC activity and measles, polio, and diphtheria potencies. Also, SDS PAGE patterns were compared for the pasteurized MISG solution and the control. Anticomplement Activity Anticomplement activity was measured by a standard dilution assay. Typically, 0.2 ml.of two fold serial dilutions of the test substance was incubated for 2 hours at 370C. with two full units of guinea pig complement in 0.4 ml. of saline. One full unit of complement is that amount which causes complete hemolysis of 0.4 ml. of a 1 percent suspension of sensitized sheep erythrocytes . The residual complement was then determined by addition of 0.4 ml. of a 1 suspension of sensitized sheep erythrocytes and incubation for an additional 30 minutes at 370C. The degree of hemolysis was estimated visually and the anticomplement titer was taken to be the greatest dilution of test substance which gave at least 50 percent hemolysis. Antibody titers Measles, polio type II and mumps antibodies were determined by tissue culture neutralization assays. Varicella zoster antibodies were estimated by complement fixation. Tetanus and diphtheria antibodies were evaluated by neutralization of the toxins in guinea pigs. Antistreptolysin 0 was determined by hemolyses of sheep red blood cells. Rabies antibodies were evaluated using the rapid fluorescent focus inhibition test RFFIT . Group B streptococcal activity was carried out using a guinea pig peritoneal phagocytic assay. Anti A, Anti B were evaluated using the standardizedCoomb s test. Prekallikrein activator PKA and activatable F.XII were measured using a two stage N benzoyl L arginine ethyl ester hydrochloride BASE assay procedure. Physical Tests Gel permeation chromatography was carried out at room temperature using two 2.6x90 cm. columns in series containing Bio Gels A l.5m BioRad Laboratories,Richmond, California . SDS PAGE sodium dodecylsulfate polyacrylamide gelelectrophoresis was carried out using 5 gels. When SDS is added to a protein solution, it binds to the protein giving the complex a very large negative charge. In the process, all noncovalent interactions are disrupted. Resolution of the individual subgroups is then possible by taking advantage of the molecular sieving properties of polyacrylamide gels. Ultracentrifuge UC analysis UC analysis is carried out using the sedimentation velocity method. The sedimentation coefficient S, reported in Table 3, is a measure of the rate of sedimentation at 200C. in water S20W and is dependent on the weight and shape of the particleEMI19.1 X distance from center of rotation X angular velocity, radians sec K time, sec Pasteurized MISG meets all proposed requirements of the Bureau of Biologics of the Food and Drug Administration. A 5 solution of unpasteurized starting MISG was heated at 60 C. in the absence of sucrose. The MISG gelled in 75 minutes. The results are summarized in Table 3 It is apparent from Fig. 3 that the lower limit of sucrose concentration possible to secure pasteurization of a 5 solution of MISG is about 33 , which corresponds to the addition of 0.5 g. of sucrose per ml. of solution. Gelation occurs whenever added sucrose is less than 0.29. my. Opalescence is indicative of degree of deactivation of MISG U.S. Patent 4,186,192 . TABLE 3EMI20.1 tb ASSAY SEP Control SEP 5 SEP MISG SEP PASTEURIZED SEP 5 SEP MISG tb Antibody SEP Scren tb Streptolysin SEP 0, SEP Todd SEP 625 SEP 625 tb SEP units tb Varicella SEP Zoster SEP 1 64 SEP 1 64 tb Measles SEP 0.5 SEP 0.3 tb Polio, SEP Type SEP II SEP 0.2 SEP 0.3 tb Diphtheria, SEP units ml SEP 1 2 SEP 192 SEP tb Tetanus, SEP units ml SEP 20 SEP 20 tb Rabies, SEP IU ml SEP 64.6 SEP 53.8 tb Anti SEP A SEP 1 8 SEP 1 8 tb Anti SEP B SEP 1 4 SEP 1 4 tb Group SEP B SEP Streptococcal SEP SEP tb SEP Activity tb Chemical tb Anticomplement SEP Activity SEP 7.6 SEP 10 tb SEP mg C SEP H50 SEP tb PKA, SEP mu ml SEP 13.8 SEP 0 tb Activatable SEP F SEP XII SEP O SEP 0 tb Physical tb Gel SEP Permeation SEP Chrom. tb SEP SEP Void SEP 2.3 SEP 6.5 tb SEP SEP Dimer SEP 8.8 SEP 8.3 tb SEP SEP Monomer SEP 88.3 SEP 85 tb SEP SEP Monomer SEP 0.7 SEP 0.2 tb SDS PAGE tb SEP SEP Dimer SEP SEP 0 SEP 1.4 SEP tb SEP H2L2 SEP 3.2 SEP 3.3 tb SEP H2L SEP 4.5 SEP 3.4 tb SEP H2 SEP 5 SEP 3 tb SEP HL SEP 8.1 SEP 7.4 tb SEP H SEP 52.5 SEP SEP 53.7 tb SEP L SEP 26.6 SEP 27.8 tb Ultracentrifuge SEP Initial SEP month SEP initial SEP 1 SEP RTI ID 20.6 month SEP tb SEP 5 C SEP 37 C SEP 5 C SEP 37 C tb Material SEP between SEP 96 SEP 99 SEP 94 SEP 98 tb SEP 6.0 7.5 SEP 520 SEP W tb Material SEP between tb SEP 7.6 12.0 SEP S20 SEP W SEP SEP SEP 4 SEP 1 SEP 6 SEP 2 tb Example 3 Pasteurization of Plasminogen Plasminogen was prepared as follows Cohn Fraction III derived from human plasma The Proteins , Vol. II, 1954, pages 663 754, Academic Press, New York, N.Y. was suspended in 0.1M sodium phosphate, 0.15M sodium chloride at pH 7.5.Plasminogen was isolated by a method similar to that disclosed by Deutsch et al., Science, 1970, Vol. 170, pages 1095 1096 using lysine covalently coupled to a maleic anhydride tetraethylene glycol dimethacrylate copolymer instead of a lysineSepharose affinity medium. The so prepared plasminogen 0.7 mg was placed in a vial and reconstituted with 1 ml. of water for injection. The plasminogen solution was treated with sucrose 0.8 g ml and heated at 600C. for 10 hours to pasteurize it.The yield of plasminogen was determined by first activating it to plasmin using streptokinase. The resulting plasmin was used to cleave standardized. amounts of BAEE and the extent of cleavage was monitored spectrophotometrically at 255 nanometers nm . The recovery of active plasminogen was 4 times as great as that for the control sample which was treated as follows 0.7 mg. of so prepared plasminogen was reconstituted in a vial by addition of 1 ml. of water for injection. The plasminogen solution was heated at 600C. for 10 hours in the absence of sucrose. Analysis of the product was by the aforementioned technique Example 4 Pasteurization of Plasma Human blood plasma 300 ml. , obtained from donor plasma according to standard manufacturing techniques was treated with sucrose 0.8 g ml .The plasma sucrose solution was heated at 600C. for 10 hours to pasteurize it.No gelation was observed. The pasteurized plasma was diluted to twice its volume using 0.45 saline and was diafiltered against normal saline using an Amicon PM10 filter to remove added sucrose and then was concentrated by ultrafiltration to its original volume using the above filter. As a control 10 ml. of human blood plasma from the same source as above was heated at 600C. in the absence of sucrose. The pasteurized plasma of the invention and unpasteurized starting plasma were analyzed by cellulose acetate electrophoresis CAE . The results are outlined in the following table. TABLE 4 Globulins Sample Albumin a1 m 2 Pasteurized plasma 61 2.7 8.5 10.7 6.9 10.2Starting plasma 54.2 4.7 11.7 10.9 6.3 12.2Control Gelled It. is noteworthy that no new peaks were seen by CAE analysis in the pasteurized plasma sample. Example 5 Pasteurization of Albumin Dried Cohn Fraction V greater than 96 albumin powder 62.5 g was suspended in 1.2 1. of 0.15M saline. To this suspension was added 31.75 g of washed activated charcoal.The pH of the suspension was adjusted to 3.0 by addition of 6N hydrochloric acid, and the suspension was stirred for 1 hour.Following centrifugation, the suspension was filtered through a Whatman No. 54 filter. The pH of the filtrate was adjusted to 7.04 by addition of 6N sodium hydroxide and 10 ml of the solution was sterile filtered through a 0.2 micron filter. The sterile filtered solution was treated with sucrose 0.8 g ml and heated at 600C. for 10 hours to. pasteurize it. No gelation occurred during pasteurization.Sucrose was removed after pasteurization by dialysis against 0.9 saline. SDS PAGE analysis of the pasteurized albumin gave substantially the same results as those obtained for the unpasteurized starting albumin. As a control a 5 solution of albumin was prepared as described in paragraph one of this example and heated at 600C the solution was not treated with sucrose prior to heating. The albumin gelled within the pasteurization period. Example 6 Pasteurization of Fibrinogen One vial of Parenogens fibrinogen manufactured byCutter Laboratories, Inc., was reconstituted in 100 ml. of water.The fibrinogen concentration in the reconstituted vial was 1000 mg 100 mi. as measured by Radial immunodiffusion RID using a M Partigens fibrinogen plate Behring Diagnostics,American Hoechst Corp., Somerville, New Jersey . Aliquots of the fibrinogen solution were diluted in 0.07M sodium citrate and pasteurized in 54 sucrose at 600C. The results are summarized in Table 5. TABLE 5Sample No. Fibrinogen Concentration Observations mg 100 ml 1 1000 Gelled in less than 20 min. 2 800 Gelled in less than 20 min. 3 600 Gelled in less than 20 min. 4 400 Slightly opalescent after 18 hrs. 5 200 Slightly opalescent after 18 hrs 6 100 Clear after 18 hours 7 50 Clear after 18 hours These data show that fibrinogen is thermally stable at 600C., 10 hours when present in concentrations less than 400 6e0 mg 100 ml. 0.4 0.6 . In the range of 400 600 mg 100 ml.the solutions became slightly opalescent indicating the onset of denaturation. Gelation results directly from protein denatu ration which is accompanied by substantial loss of activity . Sample 7 Effect of Fibrinogen Concentration on Pasteurization of AHF To four final container lots A D of KOATEs AHF and one in process lot E was added enough sucrose to make the concentration therein about 54 56 . The fibrinogen content of each lot was determined by RID and cellulose acetate electrophoresis CAE the RID method gives the amount of fibrinogen in the solution wheres the CAE method gives the amount of fibrinogen in the protein compo sition. The lots were heated at 600C. for 10 hours the results are outlined in Table 6. TABLE 6Lot Fibrinogen by Fibrinogen by Observations CAE RID A 41 568 No gelation B 35 194 No gelation C 37 190 No gelation D 62 477 Gelation E 66 940 Gelation Example 8 DNA Polymerase Tnactivation as a Measure of Reduction of Hepatitis Introduction The hepatitis B virus HBV , the causal agent of serum hepatitis, has a diameter of 42 nanometers nm and is comprised of an outer surface coat and a 27 nm inner core.A unique DNA dependent DNA polymerase is associated with the core of the virus. It is believed that this enzyme is responsible for endogenous DNA synthesizing activity. Kaplan et al., J. Virology, Vol. 12, pp. 995 1005 1973 were able to confirm the presence of this enzyme in preparations rich in Dane particles. It was further shown that the peak enzyme activity seemed to correlate with the presence of Dane particles or cores when pellets of HB5Ag were fractionated by sucrose density gradient ultracentrifugation. These Dane particles are usually found in very high concentrations during an acute infection with Hepatitis B virus. Bradley et al., Nature, Vol. 251, pp. 356 357 1974 found DNA polymerase activity appearing in the serum of four of four chimpanzees after inoculation with HBV and before the appearance of HBsAg or clinical disease. Although the infectivity of purified Dane particles has not been rigorously tested, it has been suggested by Robinson et al., New England J. Med., Vol. 295, pp. 1232 1236 1976 that, if indeed the Dane particles represent the infectious form of the HBV, plasma infectivity might be expected to correlate better with DNA polymerase DNAP activity than with HBsAg values. Until infectivity of the Dane particle is proven conclusively, however, it must be recognized that DNAP activity could be mani fested in an otherwise non viable virus. The assay used in this Example is a modification of the method developed by Robinson et al., supra. Four nucleotides, adenine triphosphate ATP , cytosine triphosphate CTP , guanosine triphosphate GTP , and thymidine triphosphate TTP were employed in the DNA synthesizing procedure. Two of the nucleotides, dCTP and cGTP were radiolabelled with tritium. The DNA synthesizing action was allowed to proceed at 370C. for 3 hours. Depending on the activity of the enzyme, variable amounts of radiolabel were incorporated into the DNA. After trichloroacetic acid precipitation and appropriate washing of the precipitate, the samples were counted in a scintillation counter. source of Hepatitis 3 virus The virus was purified from EBsAg positive plasma by the following procedure. The above plasma was thawed and clarified by centrifugation at 6000 rpm, for 60 minutes at 400C. The supernatant was then cantrifuged at 50,000 xg for 16 hours at 40C. to concentrate the virus.The resultant pellet was resuspended in 20 of the original plasma volume using 0.01M Tris hydrochloric acidCTris HC1Z, 0.001M sodium ethylenediaminetetraacetate CNa2EDTA 0.1M sodium chloride all, 0.1 volume to volume mercaptoethanol and 0.1 mg ml bovine serum albumin BSA and was clarified at 5000 rpm for 30 minutes at 40C. to remove insoluble material. Experimental Approximately 0.1 ml. of virus preparation from above was added to 0.9 ml. of 5 albumin containing about 54 sucrose 0.8 g. of added sucrose ml . The mixture was heated at 600C. for 10 hours. Another sample prepared as above was heated at 640C. for 10 hours. Approximately 0.1 ml. of virus preparation from above was mixed with 0.9 ml. of 5 intravenous ISG containing about 54 sucrose, and the mixture was heated at 600C. for 10 hours. The above was repeated at 64 0C. for 10 hours using a similarly prepared intravenous ISG sample. As a control 0.9 ml. of 5 albumin in 0.004M sodium caprylate SC and 0.004M acetyl L tryptophan AT was mixed with 0.1 ml. of the above prepared virus, and the mixture was heated at 600C. for 10 hours. Another 0.9 ml. sample of the above 5 albumin with stabilizers was mixed with 0.1 ml. of virus preparation and heated at 640C. for 10 hours. Heating the above controls at 600C. and 640C. for 10 hours was shown by Gellis et al., supra, to inactivate hepatitis virus to a non infective level as shown by results obtained in the inoculation of human volunteers. The term substantially free of infective hepatitis means free of active hepatitis virus to a non infective level. The results are summarized in Table 7. Tris hydrochloric acid Tris hydroxymethyl aminomethane hydrochloric acid. Table 7 DNAP inactivation aSample Pasteurization stabilizers 64 C, 10 hrs 600C, 10 hrs 5 albumin 54 sucrose 89 63 5 intravenous ISG 54 sucrose 96 92Control 0.004M SC, 90 92 0.004M AT a Samples were assayed in duplicate. The data show that heating at 640C. for 10 hours produces approximately the same level of inactivation of DNAP in al samples and heating at 60 C. for 10 hours produces the same level of DNAP inactivation in the control and intravenous ISG samples.Consequently, since the level of DNAP inactivation in the samples pasteurized at 640C. for 10 hours in accordance with the method of the invention is approximately the same as that in the control samples which are known to be non hepatitis infective when pasteurized as above, it may be assumed that the samples of the invention are also non hepatitis infective. Example 9 Pasteurization of Prekallikrein Prekallikrein was prepared as follows Human plasma was dialyzed against 0.05M Tris, 0.2 Polybreneesolution at pH 8.0 to lower its ionic strength. The dialyzed plasma was then applied to a DEAE Sephadex commat A50 column and fractionated.The active prekallikrein peaks were pooled and then contacted with Concanavalin A Sepharose The Concanvalin A Sepharose was washed, and prekallikrein was eluted with O.5Mo methyl mannoside. The prekallikrein enriched solution 0.5 mg protein ml was dialyzed and sterile filtered. Five milliliters of prekallikrein solution was mixed with sucrose 0.8 g ml and heated at 600C for 10 hours. The recovery of prekallikrein activity was determined by first activating it to kallikrein using excess prekallikrein activator PRA or Factor XIIa . The resulting kallikrein was used to cleave standardized amounts of benzoyl arginine ethyl ester tBAEE . The extent of cleavage was monitored spectrophotometrically at 253 nanometers nm .The recovery of prekallikrein activity was 85 . As a control one ml. of prekallikrein solution without sucrose was heated at 600C. Total activity was lost within three hours no visual precipitation was observed. Example 10 Pasteurization of Fibronectin Fibronectin was prepared by the method described byEngvall et al., Int. J. Cancer, Vol. 20, page 2 1977 by the gelatin Sepharosesaffinity medium method. Fibronectin was eluted from the affinity medium by washing with 4M urea. To remove urea the fibronectin urea eluate was diafiltered using an Amicone hollow fiber membrane cartridge with a nominal retention of 10,000 molecular weight against Buffer A in 10 sucrose 0.1 g ml . The retentate was analyzed for. fibronectin content by gel electrophoresis on unreduced and reduced sodium dodecylsulfate SDS polyacrylamide gel. The fibronectin band accounted for greater than 90 of the protein visible on the gel. The molecular weight of the fibronectin on unreduced SDS polyacrylamide gel was 400,000 500,000 the reported molecular weight is 450,000 500,000 by Yamada et al., Nature, 1978, Vol. 275 , page 179. The molecular weight of the. fibronectin on reduced SDS polyacrylamide gel was 250,000 270,000 the reported value is 210,000 250,000 by Yamada et al., supra. The fibronectin was identified further by its amino acid composition, which agreed with that reported by Yamada et al., Biochemistry, 1977, Vol. 16, page 5552. An antibody to the above prepared purified fibronectin was prepared and it cross reacted with commercially available fibronectin Collaboration Research, Inc., Waltham, Massachusetts .In immunodiffusion studies the above prepared fibronectin showed a line of identity with the commercial fibronectin when both samples were cross reacted against the above antibody. The above prepared fibronectin was demonstrated to be greater than 95 pure as determined by stained SDS polyacrylamide gels. Run A. The retentate 3.6 1. was mixed with additional sucrose such that the final concentration of sucrose was 57 0.81 g ml. The mixture was pasteurized by heating at 600C. for 10 hours, was cooled, and was diafiltered againstBuffer A several volume exchanges using an Amicono cartridge as described above to remove sucrose Then. the solution was sterile filtered in Buffer A 0.05M Na3P04 buffer pH7.6. and 0.lM NaCI The activity of the pasteurized fibronectin Run A was determined by the following assays Rat Liver Slice Assay described by Molnar et al. inBiochemistry, Vol. 18, page 3909 1979 .The assay was performed in scintillation vials with 12 to 16 pg. of added fibronectin, 10 units of heparin, gelatin coated latex particles labeled with 1251 10,000 cpm added to each vial , trebs Ringer buffer to a final volume of 1.2. ml., and a 100 150 mg. slice of fresh rat liver. This mixture was incubated for 30 minutes at 30 370C. with shaking. Uptake of labeled gelatin latex, was enhanced up to 10 fold by native fibronectin and by sucrose pasteurized fibronectin, but not by fibronectin which was heated at 600C.for more than 30 minutes in the absence of sucrose. Agglutination Assay described by Check et al. in the J.. Reticuloendothelial Soc., Vol. 25, pages 351 362 1979 .The assay was performed in a manner similar to the liver slice assay. Fibronectin 2 to 31 pg, sometimes up to 600 pg was added to vials containing 10 units of heparin, 300 pI. of a 0.68 solution of unlabeled gelatin coated latex, and Krebs Ringer buffer to a final volume of 1.2 ml. Vials were shaken for 30 minutes at 30 370C. Agglutination was scored visually by noting a transition from a milky solution to a clear solution with clumped particles. Activities are expressed as the lowest added amount of fibronectin at which agglutination occurs, and sucrose pasteurized fibronectins caused visible agglutination of gelatin latex particles at 8 23 pg of added fibronectin vial.Fibronectin heated at 60 C. for more than 30 minutes in the absence of sucrose had to be added at levels more than 570 Fg vial to show agglutination, indicating a considerable loss of activity. Run B. The experiment of Run A was repeated with the following addition retentate after mixing with sucrose, was combined with arginine to a final concentration of arginine of 0.5 molar. Run C. The experiment of Run B was repeated but no sucrose was added to retentate not in accordance with the invention . Run D. The experiment of Run C was repeated with 0.5 molar lysine in place of the arginine not in accordance with the invention . Run E. As a control retentate 3.6 1. was heated at 600C. for 10 hours , and was cooled, diafiltered and sterile filtered as described in Run A. Run F. As a control retentate 3.6 1. was constituted with sucrose to a concentration of 57 as in Run A and held at 5 C. for 10 hours. This sample was not heated. Samples from Runs B E were analyzed by the aforementioned assays. The results from Runs A E are outlined in the following table. TABLE 8Run Pasteurization Conditions Recovery of therapeutic activity 60 C., 10 hours Agglutination assay Rat liver slice assay A 57 sucrose 105 120 B 57 sucrose, 0.5M arginine 1l8 60 ca 0.5M arginine 10 Da 0.5M lysine 5 Ea control 1 0 Fa control, held at 50C. 100 100 for 10 hours a Not in accordance with the invention but provided for purposes of comparison. The state of the pasteurized fibronectin was assessed by two additional assays Slectrophoresis in non denaturing buffers on polyacrylamide gels Peacock, A.C., et al., Science 147, 1451, 1965 . Samples of fibronectin were heated at 600C. inBuffer A and examined by the above procedure. After 12 minutes at 600C. pronounced changes were evident in the patterns on the stained gels, indicating aggregation and unfolding of the protein. In contrast, fibronectin pasteurized as above in 57 sucrose for 10 hours showed only a single band, as did unheated fibronectin. The relative mobility of both samples was the same. These results demonstrate that fibronectin does not aggregate or show other structural changes during pasteurization in sucrose. Immunological Tests by the method of quantitative microcomplement fixation Arnheim, et al., 1967, J. Bio Chem.,Vol. 242, p. 3951. For each sample of fibronectin a reaction curve with specific antiserum was determined. The reaction tubes contained 0.5 ml. of diluted antiserum, 0.5 ml. of antigen 3 1000 ng of fibronectin , and 0.5 ml of guinea pig complement.Antiserum to fibronectin was diluted 1 6000. Results of microcomplement fixation tests were expressed as a percent of the reactivity of unheated purified fibronectin. Fibronectin pasteurized for 10 hours at 600C. in 54 sucrose showed a 7 12 weaker reaction with antiserum than did unheated fibronectin. For this sensitive test such a variation in cross reactivity is indicative of little or no change. For example, when unheated fibronectin was compared with human plasma containing native fibronectin a 17 308 change was noted. In other protein systems changes of this magnitude are observed between pairs of proteins which differ by single amino acid substitutions Reichlin, J. Mol. Biol., Vol. 64, p. 485, 1972 or very slightly in conformation Prager, et al., Immunochemistry,Vol. 3, p. 831, 1974 . These results demonstrate that the structure of fibronectin essentially was unaltered by sucrose pasteurization. Example 11 Pasteurization of Effluent Il 111 Effluent II III was prepared by the alcohol fractionation method of Cohn QU.S. Patent 2,390, 74 and Journal of the American Chemical Society, supra . The effluent was stored at 800C. until use. A sample 930 g. of Effluent II III was diafiltered against 5.0 kg. of WFI and ultrafiltered until the retentate equalled 420 g., the pH 6. 9 of the retentate was raised to 6.87 by addition of 4N sodium hydroxide. Sodium chloride 3.4 g. was added to 400 ml. of the diafiltered sample, which was then sterile filtered. To 100 ml. of the so prepared Effluent II III was add ed 80 g. of sucrose. The mixture was heated at 600C. for 16 hours to pasteurize it. The pasteurized sample was analyzed by CAE, which showed 4 peaks, albumin purity 79.6 As a control CAE was applied to Effluent II III that had not been heated the analyses gave 4 peaks, albumin purity 83.9 .The results indicate that a substantial portion of the activity of the Effluent II III was retained during the pasteurization process. The pasteurized sample was dialyzed against 0.85 sodium chloride 1 400 v v and concentrated to an A280 of 33.0 the original A280 . The sample was sterile filtered and then frozen at 400C. Example 12 Pasteurization of Antihemophilic Factor Two vials each from three lots CLots A, B, andC of KOATE antihemophilic factor were reconstituted in la ml. of water for injection WFI each approximately 20 mg of protein ml . The vials were poo.led and treated with sucrose at 0.8 g ml 54 or 1.2g ml 70 . Insoluhles were removed by centrifugation, The mixtures were then heated at 600C. for 10 hours to pasteurize them. As a control, reconstituted antihemop hilic factor was treated with sucrose at 0.8 g ml or 1.2 g ml. The control and the pasteurized samples from above were assayed according to the method of Example 1. The results are summarized in Table 9 below. TABLE 9 Recovery of VIII C Amount of sucrose q ml Lot 0.8 1.2 A 51.4 61.7 B 38.5 69.4 C 23.8 66.0Average 37.9 65.7 Example 13 Effect of Carbohydrate Concentration on Stability of Antihemophilic Factor An AHF solution was prepared by a modified method of Mozen, Rev. Hematol., Vol. 1, pages 135 160 1980 .