# Antigens from Trypanosoma cruzi, purification thereof, and their use in vaccines.

## Abstract
An antigenic preparation contains antigens free from lipid which are isolated from the microsomal fraction of T.cruzi epimastigotes. Disruption of the epimastigotes followed by centifugation and separation of the microsomal fraction, followed by cleaving off the lipid moiety with a detergent yields the microsomal antigens. Their immunogenicity is enhanced by removal of material under 50 000 molecular weight, especially of material under 300 000 molecular weight. The preparation is incorporated into a vaccine. Two doses of the vaccine each containing the antigen from 10⁸ 10⁹ epimastigotes, injected 14 days apart confer immunity to Chagas Disease, which is uncurable by chemotherapy.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. An antigen preparation obtained from the epimasti gote stage of T. cruzi characterised in that the preparation comprises microsomal antigen in a substantially lipidfree form. 2. An antigen preparation as claimed in claim 1 wherein the antigen substantially free of material cf molecular weight below 50 000. 3. An antigen preparation as claimed in claim 1 or claim 2 wherein tije, antigen is substantially free of material of molecular weight below 300 000. 4. A process fo r production of the antigen characterised by the three steps ol a disrupting the epimastigote growth stage of T.cruzi organisms b separating a fractior containing a relatively increased proportion of microsomal antigen and c solubilising to antigen fraction so obtained by ths use of agents capable of cleaving off the lipid moiety oJ the microsomal antigens. A A process as claimed in claim, 4 wherein a killing agent is added to te disrupted epimastigotes. 6. A process as claimed in claim 4 or claim 5 where in the solubilising agent is a pharmaceutically acceptable detergent. 7. A process as claimed in any one of claims 4 to 6 comprising an additional fractionation step and the selection of the fraction with hlghest immunogenicity, before step c . 8. A process as claimed in any one of claims 4 to 7 comprising the additional step of removal of material having a molecular weight of less than 50 000 9. A process as claimed in any one of claims 4 to 8 comprising the additional step of removal of material having a molecular height less than 300 000. 10. A vaccine for inducing immunity againt T. cruzi characterised in hat it comprise an antigen preaparation as described in arty one of claims 1 to 3. 11. A vaccine as claimed iii claim in 10 which also comprises an adjuvant.

## Description
This invention relates to a vaccine againstChargas disease. More particularly, this invention relates to a purified Trypanasoma cruzi antigen cbtined fo the cultured epimastigote stage of the parasite. Trypanasomes are osrotrophic protozoa which are frequently parasitic in vertebrates, developing whithin cells and free in the blood stream where they absorb nutrients from the infected lost. Infections are readily transmitted via intermediate insect vectors. The AmericanTrypanasoma cruzi causes Chagas disoase which is endemic in several. countries of Contral and Scuth America, especially Mexico, Brazil, Chile, Argentina and Venezuela, as well as in parts of the southern United States.Common vertrebate hostes include man, hodsehold pets, for example dogs and cats, and wild mameals, for example bats, certain monkeys and oppossums. Because the organismus are casily transmitted by the common reduviid bags, the incidence of human infections by virulent T. cruzi is very high. The World Health Organisation estimated in 1970 WHO Scientific Publication No.195 that at least seven millioil people in Latin America are infected with T cruzi, wTith another 35 million persons exposed to infections by this parasite. Chagas disease is especially dangerous because at the present time there are no satisfactory prophylactic or curative therapeutic agents available, and because, as far as is known, once the disease is contracted by a patient, the individual remains infected until death.While T.cruzi is transmitted to man and animals naturally by blood sucking bugs, transmission by blood transfusion has become the second most important means of transmission in recent years. A number of different morphological stages ofT. rruz are known to exist depending on the evironment in which they occur. The morphological stages that occur in the body of the infected mammel are the trypomastigote and amastigote stages. When these worms are placed into in vitro axenis culture or are ingested by the insect vector. they may be induced into change into a third type called the epimastigote. Tis latter stage is relatively easily grown and has becn utilised for many years in the production of antigen for studies involving immunisation as well as f or diagnostic procedures. Because of the present lack of effective chemotherapeutic treatment for Chagas disease, several attempts have been made to develop vaccines effective for immunis at ion and diagnostic agents for the demonstration of protective antibodies. Vaccines and other antigenic prepaiai ions which have been used with the AfricanSleeping sickness c using trypanasomes are unsuitable for ust with the American T. cruzi which is a morphologically, biologically, pathologically and immunologically distinct protozoan. Experimental vaccines against T. cruzi have previously been prepared from the epimastigote stage present in axenic culture and in the insect vector, or from immunologically related protezoa. Antigens have been prepared for immunological studies of Chagas disease by several methods. The mechanical rupture of T.cruzi organismus has been accomplished by freeze thawing, trituration with or without beads, and sonicaticn, and evidence that mice are partially protected frojn acute trypanasomiasis by the injection of homogenates, obtained by these physical methods has been reported Johnson P., and Neal, R.A.,Nature, 1963, 200, 83 Goble F.C. et al., J.Parasito, 1964, SO Supple. , 19 Senccu, H. et al. Nature, 1966. 203, 309 310 and Seneca. H. 8th International Congress of internal Medicine, 1965, page 356, Buenos Aires,Argentina . However, generally a decrease in parasitaemia but little increase in survival vas observed. It has also been shown that a homogenate of cpimastigotes of T. cruzi prepared by 140 atm. of pressure in a nitrogen atmosphere with precise temperature control showed enhanced stability for 8 hours and protective activity in mice against subsequent challenge with lethal doses of the parasite. The homogenate prepared at this pressure preserved the sulJcellular structures intact and permitted their isolation rSegura, E.L. et al. J.ProLozool, 21, 571 574 . Subsequent to this work,Gonzalez Cappa S.M ct ai J.Parasitology 1976, 62,130 and Segura, E.L. et al. ibid. 131 disrupted epimasti gotes of T.cruzi by nitrogen cavitation and separated fractions of the homogenate by centrifugation. They discovered that protective activity was closely related with the flagellar fraction since immunisation of mice by the intraperitoneal rcute with this fraction gave.90 survival. The so called membrane fraction showed some activity, but was not as efficient as the flagellar fraction, whilst no activity was shown by cell saps and protection was very poor for the microsomal fraction. It has now been found that a most effective micro somal antigen against T. cruzi infection may be obtained b a disruption of the epimastigot stage of the organism and by a solubilisation of the fraction which is enriched in microsomal antigen. Such solubilisation involves a treatement which claves off and removes the lipid moiety ol such antigens. According to the present invention in one aspect therefore there is provided an antigen preparation obtained from the epimastigote stage of T. cruzi, said antigen comprising the microsonal antigan in a substantially lipid free form. In a particular aspect such preparation is substantially free from material of epimastigote origin having a molecular weight of less about 50 ECO. The epimastigote stage of T. cruzi for use in the present invention may conveniently be grown in axenic culture, for carsple in Bone lipid Parent s mediiim 5 rabbit serum or stearate Boné, G.J. and Parent, J.Gen.Öicrobiol. 1963, 31, 261 266 . The organismus are allowed to groqn at 24 C to 30 C preferably 26 C for up to 9 days after which time they are harvested and washed, for example, in 0.15M saline solution or phosphate buffered saline. The organismus obtained in this manner are then subjected to a process fOT the separation of microsomal antigens fron other antigens such as for instance those associated with the flagellae, and the solubilisation of the same by chemical means.According to another aspect there is provided a process of preparing the said antigen preparation, which comprises the steps of a disrupting the epimastigote growth stage ofT. cruzi organismus b separating a fraction containing a relatively increased proportion of microsomal antigens and c solubilising the antigen fraction so obtained by the use of agents capabJe of cleaving off the lipid moiety of the microsomal antigens. In a particular aspect such a process includes a removal of material having a molecular weight of less than about 50,000, for instance by means of molecular sieving. Furthermore the process may also include an additional preliminary fractisation cf tie antigen material for instance by the use of centrifugation in a density gradient and a selection of the fraction with the highest immunogenicity i.e. the peak fraction showing tilt highest purity in respect of protective antigens. After harvesting and washing the organisms from a T. cruzi culture, the cells are disrupted by known techniques, such as freeze thawing or pressure cavitation, been according to the present invention it is preferred to ilse ultrasenication of the cell suspension to destroy the cellular and subcellular structure, in order to relase cellular material thereform, particularly on small scale. The disruption of the epimastigote growth stage is done not only to release cellular material but also to sure that no viable organisms remain.In addition, to make quite certain that no live organisms are left after ultrasonication, it is preferable that a killiny agent, for example formalin, as added to the ultrasonicate to a final concentration in the range of 0.01 to 1.00 preferably 0.1 . For a small volume of material, up to 50 ml., ultrasonication is conveniently performed by means of ultrasonic waves having a wavelength in the range of 15 to 25 Kliz, and amplitude of 5 to 20, preferabjy Z lim, peak to peak, for a period of about one minute.One commercial scale, other methods of disruption may well be more advantageous. After disreption, the resulting homogenate is fractionated for instance by differential centrifugation. Firstly, the homogenate my be centrifuged at 900C to 15 000 g., preferably 12 000 g. for a time sufficient to allow complete deposition of unwanted lllaterial from the resulting supernatant liquid. Normally this can take time of the order of 10 minutes. Subscquent to this centrifugation, the supernatant layer is removed and further centrifuged at 90 000 to 120 000 g., preferably about 102 000g. for approximately one hou to achieve a deposition of particulate material, repro senting the fraction containing microsomal antigens. The material from the separation step is either directly subjected to solubilisation or else is subjected to further fractionation such as centrifugation on a gradient before solubilisation. The incorporations of such an additional purification step has the advantage that a more potent antigen results although the overall yic d of the material may then be lower. Solubilisation for the purposes of the present invention involves tile use of an agent which increases the water solubility of the microsomal antigen by means of splitting off its lipid component, without damaging Such immunogenicity. Such agents include detergents, including both the non ionic and ionic types. The former may be represented by agents like Triton or Nonidet, Registered Trade Marks Manufactured by Rohm and Hass and by Shell, respectivelly . the latter includes deoxycholate, and ammoniy LO, but a solution of sodium dodecyl sulphate is most preferred. Pharmaceutically acceptable detergents are recommended for the purpose, although tke free remnants of the agent are normally separate from the antigen whenever molecular sieving succeeds solubilisation. The concentration of. the detergent i preferably from 0.1 to 2.0 usually around 0.5 . The quality of the antigen can he further improved by incorporating a fractionation step in the process before solubilisation, for instance by zonal gradient fractionation or by centrifugation on a sugar gradient.Conveniently the material deposited after the centrifugatlon at high speed is resuspended in a sugar solution, for example a sucrose solution, haing a concentration in the range of 0.05N o 0.5M, preferably 0.1M to most preferably 0.25M, which liquid suspension is then layered onto a linear sugar, for example sucruse gradient from 10 to 50 snd centrifuged at 50 000 to 80 000 g. for approximately fifteen hours. After this tic material at the 30 to 50 level, preferably around the 36 level, is collected. Aftcr solubilising tb antigenic fraction so obtained, the molecular sieving is performed by method well known in the art, for instance by employing zeolites which are natural hydrous metal alurtino silicates containing regular channels of molecular dimensions throughout their very open crystal structures. Alternatively, cross linked dextrans may be used. By selecting appro priate agents for the purpose, material having a molecular weight of greater than 50 000 can be retained.This porticn has been found to be highly immunogenic in tests carried out in vivo. The liquid passing through the zeolite is discarded and the retained material is eluted by known methods to provide the desired purified fraction. The antigens obtained in this manner include those which have either a molecular weight higher than 50 000 or comprise aggregates of smaller components. The later type of material can provide improved immunogenicity for the preparation. An even more immunogenic antigen may be prepared by further molecular sieving. Although material which is free of material of epimastigote origin having a molecular weight of ess than S9 000 already manifests improved antigenicity, it has been found that further fractionation to remove material with a molecular weight of less than 300 000, provides a further increase in antigonicity. The removal of material having a M. Wt. of 300 000 can either be performed subsequent to the first molecular sieving operation wherein material having a M.Wt. of 50 000 has been removed, or else be done directly after t solubilisation with a molecular sieve of appropriate capability. he modified microsomal antigens of epimastigote origin prepared according to the present invention 3r.ay have additional advantages in view of the preferential removal of antigens with the flagellae of the organisms. Since the latter type of antigen is likely to give rise to andesirable Autoimmunogenic side effects, the antigen produced in th manner of the present invention would reduce such risks. The antigen as hereinbefore defined may be formulated into vaccines suitabl for administration to susceptible hosts, such as mammals, including humans at risk to be intected with T. cruzi. This may conveniently be done b suspcnding the antigen in a pharmaceutically accept able carrier, for example phosphate buffered saline. According to the present invention in a further aspect, there is provided a vaccine for immunisation against . cruzi, which comprises an antigen as herein before defined, in a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier. Preferably the antigen is combined with an adjuvant for stImulating the immune response of the infected b.o3t and therefore increasing the effectiveness of the vaccine.Suitable adjuvants for use in the present invention include Fround s complete adjuvant, and more particularly saponin for animals, and Corynebacterium parvum cupervax or aluminium hydroxide, for humans. After formulation the vaccine is conveniently incorporated into a sterile container, which is then sealed and stored at a low temperature, for example 4 C, or may be freeze dried. The vaccines of the present invention are desirably administered by subcutaneous or intramuscular injection although the intravenous injection route may be employed.The dose may be administered to hosts ar one unit, or as a multiplicity of sub doses over a period of time.A more suitable schedule is to administrer two doses of the vaccine with 7 to 56 preferably 14 day interval between them. If longer protection is required then boostcr dose shuuld be given at approximately yearly intervals. Each dose of an immunising injection desirably contains the product of 107 to 1010 epimastigotes, more preferably 108 to 109 epimastigotes. The present invention in a further aspect provides a method for the prevention of T cruzi infection in susceptible hosts, comprising the administration of an effective anti protozoal dose of a vaccine, as hereinbefore defined, to the host. The following Example serves to illustrate the present invention but is not intended to limit it in any way.EXAMPLE 1 A culture of epimastigotes of T. cruzi was grown in Boné and Patent s liquid medium Boné, G.J., et al.,J. Gen. Microbiol., 1963, 31, 261 266 with 5 rabbit serum added. The cultures were established with 1 x 107 epimastigotes ml. and incubated at 26 C for 4 7 days, in glass bottles, containing 1000 ml. of the medium, with gentle agitation. At the end of the culture period, the medium contained ca 4 x 108 epimastigotes ml.These were separated from the supernantant by centrifugation at 2000 g for 15 minutes, then washed twice with phospiate buffcred salinc. The deposit q was resuspended in phosphate buffered saline t4 x 10 organisms ml and then subjected to ultrasonication at 20 KHz frequency, and 12 m amplitude for about 1 minute. The disrupted cultured epimastigotes of T.cruzi were centrifuged at 12 000 g. for 10 minutes and the deposit was discarded. The resulting supernatant was then centrifuged at 102 000 g. for a further 10 minutes.The deposited material was subsequently resuspended in 0.25M sucrose solution and layered onto the surface of a linear sucrose gradient, from 10 50 , and centrifuged at 64 OOOg. for 4 nours. The material at the 36 level was collected and a sample was examined using an electrom microscope to confirm the ultra structure or the collected fraction which appeared to be microsomal . The immunogenicity of a sample of this fraction was tested before being subjected to molecular sieving according to the following procedure. Groups of 10 mice were immunised with whole ultrasonicate or the fraction prepared as above with saponin 50 g as adjuvant. Each vaccine dose ontained the product of 108 epimastigotes. As controls, one group of micro was kept unvaccinared and one group received saposin only. Two doses of vaccine were injected subcutaneously, with an interval of 14 days, and the mice were challenged 14 days after te second immunising dose by the subcutaneous injection of 2 x 104 homologous blood trypomastigotes. Th following results were obtained Mean parasitaemia Mean time to on day 11 death max 42 Treatment survival score 0 10 in days Untreated 0 10 8.8 14.1Saponin only 0 10 8.7 14.2Whole sonicate 3 10 5.6 26.9 saponinIsolated fraction Saponin 8 10 2.5 36.6 The fraction isolated as above was solubilised in an aqueous 0.5t solution of sodium dodecyl sulphate and then subfractionated by ,olecular sieving to yield four fractions of different molecular weights Sol. 1 M.Wt.up to 10 COO Sol. 2 M.Wt.10 00 50 000 Sol. 3 M.Wt.50 000 3000 000 Sol. 4 M.Wt.greater than 3000 000 The immunogenicity of each of the above four subfractions was tested according to the following pro cedure Group of 10 male CD l mice were given two subcutaneous immusing injections with an interval of 14 days. Each antigen dose contained the product of 108 epimastigotes. Saponin was used as adjuvant 50 g dose , The mice were challenged 14 days after the second immunising dose by the subcuraneous inJection of 2 x 104 homologous blood trypomastigotes. The following results were obtained Mean parasitaemia Mean time to on day 11 death max 42 Treatement Survival score 0 10 in days Sol. 1 Saponin 1 10 5.1 22.2Sol. 2 Saponin 0 10 4.0 16.8 Sol . 5 Saponin 4 10 2.7 32.0Sol. 4 Saponin 8 10 1.3 39.5