# Amidotetrazole compounds and processes for their preparation.

## Abstract
Compounds are disclosed of general formula I The compounds may in general be prepared by a con densation reaction or where R¹ represents an amino group by reduction of the corresponding compound where R¹ represents a nitro group. The compounds are described as having anti inflam matory and analgesic activity as well as good therapeutic indices.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A compound of general formula I EMI10.1 wherein R1 is a hydrogen atom or a nitro or amino group and Rê is a hydrogen atom or R1 and R2 both represent chlorine atoms. 2. 1 Phenyl 5 1 4 chlorobenzoyl 5 methoxy 2 methylindol 3 ylacetamido tetrazole. 3. A method of preparing a compound of general formula I , wherein R1 and R2 are as defined in claim 1 except that R1 is not an amino group, which comprises condensing an activated derivative of general formula II EMI10.2 where X is a leaving group with a l phenyl 5 aminotetrazole of general formula III EMI11.1 where R1 is a hydrogen atom or a nitro group and R2 is a hydrogen atom or R1 and R2 both represent chlorine atoms and recovering the desired compound of general formula I 4. A method of preparing a compound of formula I as defined in claim 1 wherein R1 is an amino group which comprises reducing a compound of formula I where R1 is a nitro group and recovering the desired compound of formula I , where R1 is an amino group. 5. A pharmaceutical composition which comprises, as active ingredient at least one compound of general formula I as defined in claim 1 together with a physiologically acceptable carrier or excipient therefor. 6. A pharmaceutical composition which comprises as active ingredient l phenyl 5 1 4 chlorobenzoyl 5 methoxy 2 methylindol 3 ylacetamido3 tetrazole. 7. A method according to claim 3, substantially as herein described with reference to any of the specificExamples 1 to 3. 8. A method according to claim 4, substantially as herein described with reference to Example 4. 9. A pharmaceutical composition according to claim 5 substantially as wherein described with reference toExample 5 10. Use of a compound of general formula I as defined in claim 1 as an anti inflammatory and or analgesic agent.

## Description
TITLEAmidotetrazole Compounds and Processes for theirPreparation. This invention relates to amidotetrazole compounds, to processes for their preparation and to pharmaceutical compositions containing them. More particularly the invention relates to certain l phenyl 5 amidotetrazoles and processes for their preparation. The present invention provides a compound of general formula I EMI1.1 wherein Rl is a hydrogen atom or a nitro or amino group and R2 is a hydrogen atom or RÚ and Rê are both chlorine atoms. A particularly preferred compound according to the invention is l phenyl 5 l 4 chlorobenzoyl 5 methoxy 2 methylindol 3 ylacetamido tetrazole. Compounds of general formula I may be prepared by condensing. an activated derivative of general formula 11 EMI2.1 wherein X is a leaving group with a l phenyl 5 aminotetrazole of general formula III EMI2.2 where R1 and R2 are as defined for formula I except that R1 is not an amino group, to give the desired compound of general formula I where R1 and R2 are as defined for formula III . The compound of formula I where R1 is an amino group may be prepared by reduction of the compound of formula I where R1 is a nitro group. The reduction may be performed, for example, by hydrogen in the presence of a catalyst, such as platinum, in a suitable solvent, such as a mixture of tetrahydrofuran and anhydrous ethanol. The activated derivative of general formula II may be, for example, an acid halide such as the acid chloride, an ester such as the nitrophenyl or pentachlorophenyl ester, an acid anhydoide or a product of the reaction of the free acid of formula IV EMI3.1 with a coupling agent such as carbonyl diimidazole or dicyclohexylcarbodiimide. The condensation reaction of the derivatives of general formula II with the l phenyl 5 aminotetrazoles of formula III is generally performed in a solvent, optionally at an elevated temperature. The precise reaction conditions however, depend on the nature of the activated derivative used. Thus, for example, when an acid halide is used the reaction may be performed in a solvent such as tetrahydrofuran in the presence of an organic base such as pyridine or triethylamine at a temperature such as the reflux temperature. The activated derivatives of general formula II may be prepared from the acid of formula IV by known procedures. For example, the acid chloride of formula II may be prepared by reaction of the acid of formula IV with thionyl chloride, phosphorus pentachloride or oxalyl chloride preferably in a solvent such as cyclohexane at the reflux temperature. An ester of formula II may be prepared, for example, by reaction of the acid of formula IV with an alcohol preferably in the presence of an acid catalyst such as a mineral acid, for example hydrochloric acid. An anhydride of formula II may be prepared, for example, by reaction of the acid of formula IV with an acid anhydride such as trifluoroacetic anhydride, an acid chloride such as acetyl chloride or an alkyl or aralkyl haloformate such as ethyl or benzyl chloroformate. The acid of formula IV is a known compound which may be prepared, for example, by the method described inBritish Patent Specification No. 997638. The aminotetrazoles of formula III are also either known compounds or may be prepared by conventional methods from known starting materials for example, by .the methods described inBritish Patent Specification No. 1,208,116 or by Garbretch et al in Journal of Organic Chemistry, Volume 18, page 1020 1953 We have found that the compounds of general formula I exhibit both anti inflammatory activity and analgesic activity in the rat. Moreover, the compounds have good therapeutic indices, the therapeutic index of 1phenyl 5 1 4 chlorobenzoyl 5 methoxy 2 methylindol 3 ylacetamido tetrazole being particularly advantageous.The anti inflammatory activity was determined by the Freund adjuvant arthritis test Pearson, C.M. Proc. Soc. Exp. Biol.Med 91, 95 1956 and analgesic activity was determined by applying an increasing pressure to the inflamed paw Randall,L.O. Selitto, J.J., Arch. Int. Pharmacodyn, 111, 409 1957 and recording pain threshold. These tests indicate the potential use of the compounds of general formula I for the treatment of inflammatory diseases, in particular, chronic inflammatory diseases such as arthritis. Thus, the present invention further provides a method for the treatment of a patient suffering from an inflammatory disease which comprises administering to the patient an effective amount of a compound of general formula I . The invention also provides a pharmaceutical composition comprising a compound of general formula I together with a physiologically acceptable carrier or excipient. The compounds may be formulated in conventional manner for administration by any convenient route for example, for oral, rectal, or parenteral administration. For oral administration, the pharmaceutical composition may take the form of, for example, tablets, capsules, powders, syrups or suspensions prepared by conventional means with physiologically acceptable excipients. The compounds of general formula I may be formulated for rectal administration for example, in the form of suppositories using a conventional suppository excipient.The compounds may also be formulated for parenteral administration in dry form for reconstitution before use, or as a sterile suspension. A proposed daily dose for administration to man is 50 mg to 2500 mg total daily dose which may be conveniently administered in one to four doses per day. The invention is further illustrated by the following Examples. The abbreviation THF is used to represent tetrahydrofuran. EXAMPLE 1 l Phenyl 5 1 4shlorobenzoyl 5 methoxy 2 methylindol 3 ylacetamidoatetrazole a 1 4 chlorobenzoyl 5 methoxy 2 methylindol 3 ylacetyl chloride A mixture of l 4 chlorobenzoyl 5 methoxy 2 methylindol 3 yl acetic acid 16.0 g and thionyl chloride 7.5 g in cyclohexane 100 ml was refluxed for 2 hours until a solid precipitated. The mixture was cooled and the precipitate was collected by filtration and washed with petroleum ether b.p. 60 800C . The washed precipitate was dried 400C to yield the title compound 16.1 g m.p. 125 1270C. b l Phenyl 5 El 4 chlorobenzoyl 5 methoxy 2 methylindol 3 ylacetamidoltetrazole The chloride of part a 19.0 g in THF 150 ml was added slowly with stirring to a solution of 1 phenyl5 aminotetrazole 11.0 g and pyridine 5 ml in THF 100 ml . The mixture was refluxed for 5 hours then cooled and filtered. The filtrate was collected and the solvent distilled off under reduced pressure to leave a brown oily residue. The residue was added to methanol to precipitate a solid which was collected by filtraticn and washed with hot methanol to yield the title compound 15.5 g m.p. 183 1850C I.R. 3200 W , 1715 m , 1680 s,sh , 755 s cm . EXAMPLE 2 1 3,4 Dichlorophenyl 5 1 4 chlorobenzoyl 5 methoxy 2 methylindol 3 ylacetamido tetrazole A solution of the product of Example l a 13.1 g in THF 100 ml was added dropwise to a mixture of 1 3,4 dichlorophenyl 5 aminotetrazole 10 g triethylamine 5 ml and THF 200 ml . The mixture was refluxed for 2h, cooled, filtered and the solvent was removed under reduced pressure to give a residue. A mixture of cyclohexane ethyl acetate acetone 4 4 2 was added, the mixture was filtered and the solvent removed under reduced pressure to give a yellow gum which crystallised from ethanol to yield the title compound 2.15 g m.p. 173 l750C. Found C 54.74 Calc. 54.80 H 3.25 3.36 N 14.93 14.74 C1 18.44 18.66 .EXAMPLE 3 i 4 Nitrophenyl 5 1 4 chlorobenzoyl 5 methoxy 2methylindol 3 ylacetamido tetrazole A solution of the product of Example 1 a 95 g in TRF 500 ml was added dropwise to a mixture of 1 4nitrophenyl 5 aminotetrazole 62 g triethylamine 30 ml and THF 900 ml , refluxed for 13h, cooled and filtered.The solvent was removed under reduced pressure to give a solid gum which was dissolved in ethyl acetate 1000 ml and washed with 10 hydrochloric acid and water. By partial evaporation of the solvent a precipitate was obtained which was filtered and crystallised from ethanol to yield the title compound 47 g m.p. 198 200 C. .Found C 53.42 Calc. 57.19 H 3.34 3.69 N 17.12 17.96 C1 6.26 6.49 .EXAMPLE 4 1 4 Aminophenyl 5 Ll 4 chlorobenzoyl 5 methoxy 2 methylindol 3 ylacetamido tetrazole The product of Example 3 18 g was dissolved in a mixture of THF and anhydrous ethanol 4 1 and reduced by catalytic hydrogenaticn Pt02 3 atm. of hydrogen .The catalyst was filtered off and the solvent was removed under reduced pressure to obtain a solid. The solid was treated with hot methanol, filtered, and the title compound 2 g m.p. 185 1870C obtained by repeated chromatography on silica gel using a cyclohexane ethyl acetate acetone 4 4 2 mixture as eluent. Found C 60.49 Calc. 60.52 H 4.27 4.29 N 19.14 19 C1 7.02 6.87 .EXAMPLE 5 The following are examples of different types of pharmaceutical compdsitions according to the invention.Capsules mg capsuleActive ingredient 100.0Microcrystalline cellulose 97.0Magnesium stearate 3.0 Still Weight 200.0TabletsFilm Coated mg tabletCoreActive ingredient 100.0Microcrystalline cellulose 97.0Magnesium stearate . 3.0Film coatingHydroxypropylmethylcellulose 4.5Titanium dioxide 1.2 Weight 205.7Suppositories mg suppositoryActive ingredient 200.0Suppository base 2500.0 Weight 2700.0 Any conventional base may be used. The anti inflammatory activity of the compounds was determined in rats with adjuvant arthritis Pearson,C.M. Prod. Soc. Exp. Biol. Med., 91, 95, 1956 induced by intradermal injection into the tail of 0.1 ml of a fine suspension of Mycobacterium butyricum in liquid paraffin 6 mg.ml After 14 days, animals were chosen on the basis of their arthritic score and test compounds, suspended in gum acacia, were then orally administered once a day for 14 days. At the end of this period, animals were scored again and percentage inhibition versus first score was calculated. Comparisons with controls were performed by the Dunnett test. The following results were obtained for the compounds of the Examples Example No. Oral Dose. Inhibition mg.kg 1 1 6.25 59 2 50.0 40.3 3 10.d 47.7 4 50.0 44.8Toxicity rihe compounds are in general non toxic at therapeutically active doses. For example, the compound of Example 1 has an LD50 value in the rat in excess of 3000 mg.kg 1 orally.