# Current mirror circuit.

## Abstract
A current mirror circuit 20 formed of a PNP NPN transistor 201 employs as its load an I²L circuit 30 , an injector 31 of the I²L circuit 30 being common with those of another group of I²L circuits 40 , and a predetermined current being derived from the PNP NPN transistor 201 of the current mirror circuit 20 .

## Claims
Patent Claims 1. A current mirror circuit, characterized by a first transistor 201 which has a plurality of collectors, in which the first collector is fed back to a base of said first transistor 201 , in which an output current is derived from the second collector, and whose emitter is connected to a power supply Vcc a second transistor 203 which has a plurality of collectors 34...36 , in which the first collector 36 is fed back to the base 33 of said second transistor 203 , in which the second collector 35 is connected to said first collector of said first transistor 201 , and whose emitter is grounded and a third transistor 204 whose base is grounded, whose collector is connected to said base 33 of said second transistor. 203 , and whose emitter 31 serves as a current supplying terminal. 2. A current mirror circuit according to claim 1, characterized in that the feedback of the first collector of said first transistor 201 to said base thereof is effected through a fourth transistor 202 , a collector of which is grounded, a base of which is connected to said first collector of said first transistor 201 and an emitter of which is connected to said base of said first transistor 201 . 3. A current mirror circuit according to claim 2, characterized in that said first and fourth transistors 201, 202 are PNP transistors, said second transistor 203 is an NPN transistor, said third transistor 204 2 is a lateral PNP transistor, an I L is constructed of said second and third transistors 203, 204 and said emitter 31 of said third transistor 204 serving as 2 an injector of said I2L is constructed in common with an injector of a logical circuit of an I 2L construction. 4. A current mirror circuit according to any of claims 1 to 3, characterized in that said base 33 of said second transistor 203 is provided with a switching element or switching circuit 50 which is connected to either an earth terminal or an open terminal. 5. A current mirror circuit according to any of claims 1 to 4, characterized in that an area of said second collector 35 of said second transistor 203 is made n times n positive integer our fraction as large as an area of said first collector 36 thereof and an area of said second collector of said first transistor 201 is made m times m positive integer or fraction as large as an area of said first collector thereof, whereby a current to be derived from said second collector of said first transistor is made n x m times as high as a base current of said second transistor 203 . 6. A current mirror circuit according to claim 1, 4 or 5, characterized in that said second transistor 203 is an NPN transistor, said third transistor 204 is a lateral PNP transistor, an I 2L is constructed ofSaid second and third transistors 203, 204 , and an emitter 31 of said third transistor serving as an s q injector of said I L is constructed in common with an 2 injector of a logical circuit of an I L construction.

## Description
Current Mirror Circuit This invention relates to a semiconductor integrated circuit, and more particularly to a current mirror circuit. Especially, the invention is concerned with a current mirror circuit which employs an integrated injection logic circuit I2L . The I2L is a new logical circuit which was published in, for example, H.H. Benger and S.K. Wiedman MergedTransistor Logic MTL A Low Cost Bipolar Logic Concept IEEE J. of SSC, sc 7, 5, p. 340 346 1972, Oct , and K. Hart and A. Slob Integrated Injection Logic ANew Approach to LSI IEEE J. of SSC, sc 7, 5, p.346 351 1972, Oct . The I2T has attracted attention for such reasons as capability of a high density of integration, wide application, and capability of coexistence with conventional bipolar transistors. 2 Fig. 1A shows an equivalent circuit of an I L, while Fig. 1B shows a sectional structure of elements.As illustrated in Fig. 1A, the I L is expressed as a combination of a common base PNP transistor 11 and a common emitter NPN transistor 12. The emitter I of the transistor 11 is usually called injector , and a power supply is connected to this terminal. The base B of the transistor 12 is used as an input terminal, and the collectors C1 to C3 are used as output terminals so as to derive outputs in the multi collector type. The transistor 12 is such that the emitter and collector of a conventional planar transistor are inversed, and the emitter E is grounded. The situation above described is apparent from the sectional view of Fig. 1B.The PNP transistor 11 is constructed of a lateral transistor, the emitter of which is formed of a P type semiconductor region 13, the base of which is formed of an epitaxially grown semiconductor layer 14 of N type conductivity and the collector of which is formed of a P type semiconductor region 15. The NPN transistor 12 is constructed with the collectors formed of N type semiconductor regions 16, the base formed of the P type semiconductor region 15 and the emitter formed of the N type epitaxial semiconductor layer 14. A buried layer 191 of N type conductivity and a semiconductor region 192 of N type conductivity serve to lead out a common earth terminal. The region 192 is also called collar region of N conductivity for preventing the influence of parasitic transistors.Besides contacting with the layer 191, the region 192 is sometimes formed with a shallow portion so as to surround the I L. Shown at 10 is a semiconductor substrate of P type conductivity. The substrate 10 is a silicon Si substrate, and the semiconductor layer 14 is an Si epitaxial layer. The semiconductor regions 13, 15, 16 and 192 and layer 191 are formed by thermal diffusion, ion implantation, etc. As seen from Fig. 1B, the collector of the PNP transistor 11 and the base of the NPN transistor 12 are formed by the identical P type semiconductor region 15. The base of the PNP transistor 11 and the emitter of the NPN transistor 12 are formed by the N type epitaxial layer 14 in common. The I2L above stated occupies a small area, is capable of low power operation and is easily brought into coexistence with other functional circuits employing bipolar transistors, so that it is being applied extensively. However, when it coexists with the other functional circuits employing bipolar transistors, the 2 area of the circuit portion other than the I L is large and the power dissipation thereof is high, and the features of the I 2L are often lessened as to the wholeLSI. When a minute current is needed as the injector 12 current of the I2L, a current mirror circuit is often employed as a constant current supplying means. The current mirror circuit is a circuit which provides a current equal to a certain reference current given current from an output terminal. In case where the current mirror circuit is constructed of a multi collector transistor, currents which correspond to the area ratios of the respective collectors can be supplied. A prior art current mirror circuit is shown in Fig.2A. In this circuit, current I21 which is derived from collectors C4 and C5 is equal to current I22 which flows through a resistor R. In case of using this circuit as a current source for supplying a low current approximately several pA or below , the resistor R requires a great resistance value several hundreds KQ or above . With ordinary bipolar transistor processes, accordingly, a pinch resistor must be used. The pinch resistor, however, has the disadvantages that the area is large, that the temperature dependence is inferior, and that a large margin is required for the design on account of a large dispersion and an inferior precision. Fig. 2B shows a plan pattern for the case that the circuit of Fig. 2A is constructed of an integrated circuit. A P type region 21, an N type region 22, and Ptype regions 23, 24 and 25 form the emitter, the base, and the collectors of a multi collector PNP transistor 201, respectively. A P type region 26, an N type region 27, and a P type substrate 28 form the emitter, the base, and the collector of a PNP transistor 202, respectively.Regions 291 and 292 shown by a one dot chain line areP type and N type regions respectively, which constitute the pinch resistor. Parts shown by broken lines are metallic interconnections. As apparent from Fig. 2B, the pinch resistor occupies most of the region of the current mirror circuit. By way of example, when a current of 1 llA is to be derived from the collectors C4 and C5 under Vcc 5V, the resistance of the resistor R needs to be about 4 MQ. Then, the occupying area of the resistor part only becomes 310 x 180 pom2, which is very unfavorable. An object of this invention is to eliminate the disadvantage of the prior art current mirror circuit and to provide a current mirror circuit which does not employ a pinch resistor. Another object of this invention is to provide a current mirror circuit which is conStructed by exploiting an I 2L and which is suitable for use in an integrated 2 circuit made up of a large number of I L s. The subject matter of this invention resides in a current mirror circuit in which an I2L is employed as a load of the current mirror circuit made up of the PNP NPN transistors shown in Fig. 2A, the injector of theI 2L being common to those of another group of I2L s, wherein a predetermined current is derived from the PNP NPN transistor of the current mirror circuit. In the accompanying drawings Fig. 1A referred to above is a circuit diagram for explaining an I2 Fig. 1B referred to above is a sectional view of the structure of elements in the I2 of Fig. lA Fig. 2A referred to above is a circuit diagram for explaining a prior art current mirror circuit Fig. 2B referred to above is a plan pattern view showing the case that the circuit of Fig. 2A is constructed of an integrated circuit Fig. 3A is a circuit diagram showing an embodiment of this invention Fig. 3B is a plan pattern view showing the case that the circuit of Fig. 3A is constructed of an integrated circuit and Fig. 3C is a sectional view of elements taken along line B B in Fig. 3B. Hereunder, this invention will be described in detail with reference to an embodiment of a current mirror circuit as illustrated in Figs. 3A, 3B and 3C. Shown in Fig. 3A by a broken line 40 is a logical 2 circuit portion which is constructed of an I L. An in jector current Iinj flows from a power supply Vcc through a resistor Rc to a common injector line 32. The broken line 30 designates a load portion of the current mirror circuit. It constitutes the current mirror circuit to gether. with a further part shown by the broken line 20. 2 In the current mirror circuit of Fig. 3A, an I L which is made up of a lateral PNP transistor 204 and an inverse NPN transistor 203 is provided instead of the resistor R of the prior art current mirror circuit inFig. 2A. The injector of this I2L is used in common with those of the I 2L logical circuit portion. In the I2L 30, one collector 36 of the multi collector NPN transistor 203 is connected to the base of the transistor 2 itself. When a base terminal 33 of the I L 30 is open and current is permitted to flow from an injector terminal 31, it holds that I31 I32. Since I32 I33, it holds that I31 I33. Merits of the present circuit are as follows. 1 The current caused to flow to the injector 31 of the I L is obtained by using the injectors of another I 2L within the same chip in common. Accordingly, it is unnecessary to provide a pinch resistor anew, and the area can be made smaller than in the prior art to the extent that the pinch resistor has been replaced by one 2 stage of I L gate. For example, in case of supplying a current of 1 UA under Vcc 5 V, the resistance of the resistor in the circuit of Fig. 2A is several Mn. A plan view in the case of forming the resistor of a pinch resistor was shown in Fig. 2B. In contrast, a plan view of the I L current mirror circuit according to this invention is shown in Fig. 3B, and an area less than 1 10 of that of the resistor portion in the prior art suffices. Fig. 3B is a plan pattern showing the case that the current mirror circuit of Fig. 3A is put into an integrated circuit, while Fig. 3C is a sectional view taken along line B B ih Fig. 3B. in these figures, numerals 51, 52 and 53 designate diffusion regions ofN type conductivity, which form the multi collector parts of the I L. Numeral 50 designates a diffusion region of P type conductivity which serves as the injector. Numeral 54 indicates a P type semiconductor e.g., Si substrate, and numerals 55 and 56 indicateN type regions which are diffused layers or epitaxially grown layers. 2 Since no pinch resistor is employed in the current mirror circuit portion, currents of small dispersion and high precision can be supplied. 3 If the current I33 which the current mirror circuit supplies is caused to flow through another logical circuit of I2L different from the part 40, both the current source and the logical circuit are constructed of I2L circuits. Accordingly, the balance of currents is easily taken, and the circuit design is conspicuously facilitated. The current mirror circuit 20 of PNP transistors and the f2L 30 can have currents set at desired magnitudes by varying the areas of the collectors of the respective transistors, i.e. PNP transistor 201 and NPN transistor 203. By way of example, the areas of the collectors 51 and 53 are made equal, and the area of the collector 25 is made double that of the collector 23.Alternatively, the area of the collector 53 is made double that of the collector 51, and the areas of the collectors 23 and 25 are made equal. At this time, it holds that I33 2 I31. 4 By controlling the voltage of the base terminal 33 in Fig. 3A, the currents I33 can be switched. By way of example, when the terminal 33 is brought to the earth potential level by the use of a switching element or switching circuit 50 , the I2L 30 is cut off and the current mirror circuit is also cut off. The switching element or switching circuit 50 sets the potential of the terminal 33 at the open state or the earth state. Accordingly, it is not required to cause any unnecessary current to flow, and the power dissipation of the circuit can be lessened. 2 5 By adding a collector terminal 34 to the I L 30, the circuit can be operated while monitoring the currents. As explained above, the current mirror circuit of this invention is very useful as a minute current source of small area and high precision. According to this invention, the current mirror circuit can be provided by making the best use of the great merit of the I 2L so that the area of the device is small. It is also possible to change the polarities of voltages by making the transistors 201, 202 and 204NPN transistors and the transistor 203 a PNP transistor conversely to the foregoing embodiment.