# Plasmid vectors, plasmids and their preparation, and cloning processes using them.

## Abstract
Novel cointegrate plasmids pUC1012 and pUC1013, which are obtained by covalent linkage of the E. coli plasmid pBR322 to the Streptomyces espinosus plasmid pUC6, novel plasmids pUC1015 and pUC1022, which are obtained by restructuring plasmid pUC1012, and novel plasmids pUC1016 and pUC1023 which are obtained by restructuring plasmid pUC1013. These plasmids are useful as cloning vehicles in recombinant DNA work. For example, using DNA methodology, a desired gene, e.g. the insulin gene, can be inserted into one of the plasmids and the resulting plasmid can then be transformed into a suitable host microbe which, upon culturing, produces insulin.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A plasmid vector selected from E. coli CSH5O pUC1012 , E. coli CSH50 pUC1013 , E. coli CSHSO pUC1O15 , E. coli CSH5O pUC1016 , E. coli RR1 pUC1022 and E. coli RR1 pUC1023 , having the respective NRRL deposit accession numbers B 12106, B 12107, 3 12150, B 12151, B 12183 and B 12184. 2. A plasmid selected from those designated pUC1012, pUC1013, pUClOl5, pUC1016, pUC1022 and pUC1023, respectively characterised by the restriction maps of Figures 2, 3, 4, 5, 10 and 11 of the accompanying drawings. 3. A process for preparing cointegrate plasmids pUC1012 and pUC1013, which comprises linearising plasmids pBR322 and pUC6 and ligating the resultant linear plasmidDNA. 4. A process for preparing plasmid pUC1O1S or pUC1016, which comprises digesting pUC1012 DNA or pUC1013DNA with restriction endonuclease XhoI and ligating the largest fragment of the resultant fragmented linear plasmid DNA. A A process for preparing plasmid pUC1022, which comprises digesting pUC1012 DNA with restriction endonuclease PvuII and ligating the largest fragment of the resultant fragmented linear plasmid DNA. 6. A process for preparing plasnid pUC1023, which comprises digesting pUClOl3 DNA with restriction endonuclease PvuII and ligating the fragment of the resultant fragmented linear DNA which contains the ampicillin resistance gene. 7. A cloning process which comprises transfoiming a plasmid according to any of claims 2 to 6 into a suitable host. 8. A process according to claim 7 wherein the host is a bacterium. 9. A process according to claim 7 when appendent to claim 3 or claim 4 wherein the host is E. coli CSH5O. 10. A process according to claim 7 when appendent to claim 5 or claim 6 wherein the host is E. coli RR1.

## Description
PLACID VECTORS, PLASMIDS AND THEIR PREPARATION, AND CLONING PROCESSES USING THEM This invention relates to plasmid vectors, plasriids, their preparation and cloning processes using them. The development of plasmid vectors useful for recombinant DNA genetics among microorganisms is well known. The editorial in Science 196 April, 1977 gives a good summary of DNA research. This editorial is accompanied by a number of supporting papers in the same issue ofScience. Similar DNA work is currently being done on industrially important microorganisms of the genusStreptomyces, e.g. as reported by Bibb et al, Transform ation of plasmid DNA into Streptomyces at high frequency ,Nature 274, 398 400. Although plasmid DNA has been detected in several streptomycetes, as reported by tuber et al A general method for lysis of Streptomyces species , Can. J. Microbiol. 24, 631 632 by Schrempf et al Isolation of covalently closed circular deoxyribonucleic acid from Streptomyces coelicolor As 2 , J. Bacteriol.121, 416 421, by Umezawa, 1,Microbial secondary metabolites with potential use in cancer treatment Plasmid involvement in biosynthesis and compounds , Biomedicine 26, 236 249 and by Malik Preparative Method for the isolation cf super coiled DNA from a chloramphenicol producing streptomyces , J. Antibiotics 30, 897899, only one streptomyctte plasmid has been physically isolated and extensively characterised in the literature, by Schrempf et al, supra. See also Bibb et al, A DNA cloning system for interspecies gene transfer in antibiotic producing Streptomyces11, Nature 284, 526 531. The existence of other plasmids in the genus Streptomyces has been inferred from reported genetic data as follows 1 Akagawa, H., Okanishi, M. and Umezawa, H. 1975. A plasmid involved in chloramphenicol production in streptomyces venezuelae Evidence from genetic map ping. J. Gen. Microbiol. 90, 336 346. 2 Freeman, R. F. and Hopwood, D. A. 1978. Unstable naturally occurring resistance to antibiotics in Strepto myces J. Gen. Microbiol. 106, 377 381. 3 Friend, E. J., Warren, M. and Hopwood, D. A. 1978. Genetic evidence for a plasmid controlling fertility in an industrial strain of Streptomyces rimosus. J. Gen. Microbiol. 106, 201 206. 4 Hopwood, D. A. and Wright, H. M. 19 3. A plasmid of Streptomyces coelicolor carrying a chromosomal locus and its inter specific transfer. J. Gen. Microbiol. 79, 331 342. 5 Hotta, K., Okami, Y. and Umezawa, H. 1977. Elimination of the ability of a kanamycin producing strain to bio synthesize deoxystreptamine moiety by acriflavine. J. Antibiotics 30, 1146 1149. 6 Kirby, R., Wright, L. F. and Hopwood, D. A. 1975. Pl asmi d determi ned antibiotic synthesis and resistance in Streptomyces coelicolor. Nature 254, 265 267. 7 Kirby, R. and Hopwood, D. A. 1977.. Genetic determina tion of methylenomycin synthesis by the SCPI plasmid of Streptomyces coelicolor A3 2 . J. Gen. Microbiol. 98, 239 252. 8 Okanishi, M., Ohta, T. and Umezawa, H. 1969. Possible control of formation of aerial mycelium and antibiotic production in Streptomyces by episodic factors. J. Antibiotics 33, 45 47. Plasmid pUC6 was isolated from Streptomyces espinosus biotype 23724a, NRRL 11439. Plasmid pBR322 is a well known plasmid which can be obtained fromE. coli RR1, NRRL B 12014. The restriction endonuclease map for pBR322 is published Sutcliff, J. G. pBR322 restriction map derived from the DNA sequence accurate DNA size markers up to 4361 nucleotide pairs long. Nucleic Acids Research 5, 2721 2728, 1978. This map is incorporated herein by reference to the above publication.BRIEF SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION Piasmids pUC1012 and pUC1013 are obtained by the in vitro covalent linkage of the E. coli plasmid pBR322 to the S. espinosus plasmid pUC6. The procedure for constructing these novel cointegrate plasmids comprises cutting pBR322 and pUC6 to give linear plasmid DNA, and ligating with T4 NA ligase to give the cointegrates. Specifically, plasmid pUC6 is inserted via its BglII restriction site into the BamHl site of the E. coli vector plasmid pBR322. Because of the two possible orientations of insertion of pUC6 into pBR322, two different recombinant plasmids, i.e., pUC1O12 and pUC1013, are constructed and isolated. The plasmid cointegrates, advantageously, are transformed into a suitable host, for example, E. coli. Plasmids pUC1015 and pUC1O16 are obtained by restructuring plasmids pUC1012 and pUC1013, respectively. This restructuring is achieved by digestion of the parent plasmids with restriction endonuclease XhoI to obtain a digest of plasmid DNA, and ligating the largest DNA fragment after purification by agarose gel to obtain the novel plasmids of the invention. These plasmids are transformed into E. cofi CSH50 by use of well known procedures. pUC1O1S is derived from plasmid pUC1012 by in vitro deletion of 2.0 kilobases of DNA. pUC1016 is derived from plasmid pUC1013 by deletion of 2.0 kilobases of DNA. The smaller plasmids pUC1015 and pUC1016 contain single restriction sites for the restriction enzymesPstI, EcoRI, HindIII, XhoI and Boll. Plasmid pUC1022 is derived from plasmid pUC1012 by the in vitro deletion of approximately 9. 1 kb of the pUC1012 DNA sequences. The deleted sequences are between PvuII restriction endonuclease sites in pUC1012, thus giving pUC1022 a single PvuII site. pUC1022 confers ampicillin resistance upon its host and has a molecular weight of ca.2.8 x 106 daltons. Plasmid pUCl023 is similarly derived from plasmid pUC1013 by in vitro deletion between PvuII restriction sites. Plasmid pUC1023 has a single PvuII cleavage site, confers ampicillin resistance upon its host, and has a molecular weight of ca. 2.2 x 106 daltons. Plasmids pUC1O12, pUC1013, pUCPO1S, pUC1O16, pUC1O22 and pUC1023 are characterized by the restriction maps shown in Figures 2, 3, 4, 5, 10 and 11, respectively, of the drawings. The restriction endonuclease abbreviations shown in the drawings are standard and well known in the art. Plasmids pUC1012 and pUC1013 exhibit copy numbers varying from about 1 18 copies per E. coli chromosome. Characterization of pUC1012 by electron microscope heteroduplex analysis gives the results shown in the table following. Electron micrographs were taken on a JEOL JEM1OOS electron microscope and were calibrated for magnification errors using a diffraction grating. Coutour Length in Microns uia Single Double DNA Species Total S t r a n d e d SS Stranded DS SS Totalb pUC6 2.87 0.17 pBR322 1.48 0.06 pUC1012 4.06 0.16 pUC6 pUC1012 HdC 3.96 0.10 1.16 0.20 2.81 0.22 0.29 pBR322 pUC1012 Hdc. 3.93 0.40 2.36 0.27 1.57 0.05 0.60 a These values are the average of at least eight molecules. 6 b Assuming a molecular weight of 2.6 2,8x10 for pBR322 and a 6 molecular weight of 6.0x10 for pUC6, pBR322 and pUC6 should constitute approximately 30 and 70X, respectively, of the genome of pUC1012. c Heteroduplex Hd . DNA species to.be heteroduplexed were mixed in 50 iil of TE buffer 10 rrfil Tris HCl, 1 mM EDTA, pH 8.0 so that 0.1 u9 of each plasmid was present. This sample was denatured by the addition of 20 iil 1 NNaOH and incubated at room temperature for 10 minutes. The sample was neutralized by addition of 30 l of 1 M Tris .HCl, pH 8.4 and 100 wl of 0.2 M EDTA, pH 8.4. The reannealing was conducted by sequential dialysis in a 70 v v formamide, 0.1 M Tris.HCl, 0.01 M EDTA, 0.25 MNaCl, pH 8.4 buffer for 2 hours at room temperature and in 50 v v formamide, 0.1 M Tris HCl, 0.01 M EDTA, pH 8.4 buffer for at least 2 hours at 4 C.The only exception to this was with the pBR322 heteroduplex to recombinant plasmids in which 85 formamide was used in the first dialysis buffer. DNA preparations were diluted 1 1 with 50 formamide buffer containing 0.2 mg. ml. cycochrome C. Approximately 50 ul of this spreading solution was spread over a hypophase consisting of 18X v v formamide, 0.01 M TrisHCl and 0.001 M EDTA, pH 8.4 using a glass ramp. The DNA was picked up on grids coated with nitrocellulose and these were rotary shadowed with a 80 20 platinum palladium alloy. Plasmid pUC6 is obtainable from the novel microorganism Strepto myces espinosus biotype 23724a, NRRL 11439. This plasmid can be obtained from NRRL 11439 by growing the culture on a suitable medium, fragmenting the mycelia, incubating the fragmented mycelia, harvesting the culture after a suitable time, and then lysing the mycelia. From this lysate it is possible to isolate essentially pure pUC6. pUC6 is characterized by standard characterization tests which include its molecular weight, approximately 6.0 megadaltons, sensitivity to re restriction endonucleases, infra, and presence at 20 40 copies per S.espinosus NRRL 11439 cell.REFERENCE TO THE DRAWINGS FIGURE 1 This shows the isolation scheme of the cointegrate plasmids. FIGURE 2 Restriction endonuclease cleavage map for pUC1012. FIGURE 3 Restriction endonuclease cleavage mpa for pUC1013. FIGURE 4 Restriction endonuclease cleavage map for pUC1015. FIGURE 5 Restriction endonuclease cleavage map for pUC1016. FIGURE 6 Restructuring scheme in preparing pUC1O1S. FIGURE 7 Restructuring scheme in preparing pUC1016. FIGURE 8 Restructuring scheme in preparing pUC1022. FIGURE 9 Restructuring scheme in preparing pUC1023. FIGURE 10 Restriction enconuclease cleavage map for pUC1022. FIGURE 11 Restriction endonuclease cleavage map for pUC1023. Note When plasmids pUC1012 and pUC1013 are maintained in a DNA modification proficient host such as E. coli CSH50, the BclI restriction sites are modified such that they can not be detected by BclI digestion. However, maintenance of pUC1012 or pUC1013 in a modification deficient host allows the demonstration of the presence of BclI restriction sites. The maps are constructed on the basis of plasmids pUC1012 and pUC1013 having a molecular weight of ca. 8.5 megadaltons or a molecular length of ca. 12.9 kilobases. The restriction endonuclease abbreviations are as follows 1 BglII is an enzyme from Bacillus glo bigii 2 BclI is an enzyme from Bacillus caldolyticus 3 PvuII is an enzyme from Proteus vulgaris and 4 XhoI is an enzyme fromXanthomonas holicola. pUC1012, pUC1013, pUC1O1S, pUC1016, pUC1022 and pUC1023, can be used to create reccmbinant plasmids which can be introduced into host microbes by transormation. The process of creating recombinant plasmids is well known in the art. Such a process comprises cleaving the isolated vector plasmid at a specific site s by means of a restriction endo nuclease, for example, BglII, XhoI, and the like. The plasmid, which is a circular DNA molecule, is thus converted into a linear DNA molecule by the enzyme which cuts the two DNA strands at a specific site. Other non vector DNA is similarly cleaved with the same enzyme.Upon mixing the linear vector or portions thereof and non vector DNA s, their single stranded or blunt ends can pair with each other and in the presence of a second enzyme known as polynucleotide ligase can be covalently joined to form a.single circle of DNA. The above procedure also can be used to insert a length of DNA from a higher animal into pUC1012, pUC1013, pUC1015, pUC1016, pUC1022 or pUC1023. For example, the DNA which codes for ribosomal RNA in the frog can be mixed with pUC1016 DNA that has been cleaved. The resulting circular DNA molecules consist of plasmid pUC1O1S with an inserted length of frog rDNA. The recombinant plasmids containing a desired genetic element, prepared by using pUC1012, pUC1013, pUC1015, pUC1016, pUC1022 or pUC1023, can be introduced into a host organism for expression.Examples of valuable genes which can be inserted into host organisms by the above described process are genes coding for somatostatin, rat proi nsul in, interferon, and proteases. The usefulness of plasmids pUC1012, pUC1013, pUC1O1S, pUC1016, pUC1022 and pUC1023 is derived from their capacity to function as plasmid vectors in industrially important microorganisms, e.g., Strep . tomyces. Also, pUC1O1S, pUC1016, pUC1022 and pUC1023 are especially useful because of their single restriction sites. Hence, cloning of genetic information from Streptomyces into pUC1012, pUC1013, pUC1O1S, pUC1016, pUC1022, or pUC1023 provides a means of increasing the production of commercially important products from these organisms, e.g., antibiotics. This approach is compared to the concept of cloning genes fort antibiotic production into the well characterized Escherichia coliK 12 host vector system. The E. coli system has the disadvantage that it has been found that genes from some Gram psitive organisms, e.g.,Bacillus, do not express well in the Gram negative E. coli host.Likewise, plasmids from Gram negative organisms are not maintained inGram positive hosts, and Gram negative genetic information is either expressed poorly or not at all in Gram positive hosts. This clearly argues for the advantage of a Gram positive host vector system and argues the usefulness of plasmid pUC1012, pUC1013, pUC1O1S, pUC1015, pUC1022, or pUC1023, in such a system. In general, the use of a host vector system to produce a product foreign to that host requires the introduction of the genes for the entire biosynthetic pathway of the product to the new host. As discussed above, this may lead to problems of genetic expression, but may also generate new and or increased problems in the fermentation of the microorganisms and in the extraction and purification of the product.A perhaps more useful approach is to introduce a plasmid vector into a host which normally produces the product and clone onto that plasmid the genes for biosynthesis of the product. At the very least,problems of fermentation and product extraction and purification should be minimized. Additionally, in this cloning system it may not be necessary to clone and amplify all the genes of the biosynthetic pathway, but rather it may be necessary only to clone regulatory genes or genes coding for the enzymes that are rate limiting in product biosynthesis.Since pUC1012 and pUC1013 are cointegrate plasmids, they can be used to clone DNA sequences in E. coli or within the genera of Streptomyces and Micromonospora, as well as within other microbes. DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTIONThe Microorganisms and Plasmids The following microorganisms are available from the permanent collection of the Northern Regional Research Laboratory, U.S. Depart ment of Agriculture, Peoria, Illinois, U.S.A. NRRL B 12110 E. coli CSH50 NRRL B 11439 S. espinosus biotype 23724a NRRL B 12014 E. coli RR1 pBR322 NRRL 8 12106 E. coli CSH50 pUC1012 NRRL By12107 E. coli CSH50 pUC1013 NRRL B 12150 E. coli COSH50 pUC1O1S NRRL B 12151 Eo coli CSH5O pUC1016 NRRL B 12183 E. coli RR1 pUC1022 NRRL B 12184 E. coli RR1 pUC1023 NRRL B 12186 E. coli RR1 These deposits are available to the public upon the grant of a patent t the assignee, The Upjohn Company, disclosing them.The deposits are also available as required by foreign patent laws in countries wherein counterparts of the subject application, or its progeny, are filed. However, it should be understood that the availability of a deposit does not constitute a license to practice the subject invention in derogation of patent rights granted by governmental action. The following examples are illustrative of the process and products of the subject invention but are not to be construed as limiting. All percentages are by weight and all solvent mixture proportions are by volume unless otherwise noted.Example 1 Isolation of Vector pBR322 DNA from i coli NRRL B 12014 A 100 ml. culture of E. coli RR1 pBR322 is grown overnight inL broth which consists of the following ingredients Bacto tryptone Difco 10 g. liter Bacto yeast extract Difco 5 liter NaCl 5 g. liter Ampicillin 50 mg. liter The cells are recovered by centrifugation at 17,000 x g. for 10 minutes in a refrigerated centrifuge. The pellet is suspended in 2.5 ml. 50 mM tris buffer pH .8 containing 25 sucrose. One half ml. of lysozyme stock solution is added 5 mg. ml. in TES buffer . The mixture is allowed to stand in ice for 5 minutes. At this point 1 ml.EDTA 0.25 M, pH 8 is added and the mixture is again allowed to stand in ice for 5 minutes. One and a quarter ml. of 5 N NaCl and 1 ml. 10 SDS sodium dodecyl sulfate are then added. The mixture is shaken on a Vortex and incubated at 370C. for 20 minutes. Then 10 iil of ribonuclease 20 mg. ml. is added and the sample is again incubated at 370C. for 20 minutes. The mixture is then kept in ice overnight and then centrifuged at 35,000 x g. for 30 minutes in a refrigerated centrifuge. 2 ml. of the supernatant solution lysate are carefully removed with a pipette. Four and one half ml. of TES buffer 30 mM tris.HCl, pH 8, 5 mM EDTA Na2, 50 mM NaCl are mixed with 1.5 ml.EtBr ethidium bromide stock 1 mg. ml. in TES buffer and 7.5 g. solidCsCl. After the salt has dissolved, 2 ml. of the lysate, described above, is added and the mixture is.transferred into a polyallomer tube fitting a titanium 50 50 Ti head Beckman ultracentrifuge . The tubes are filled to the top with mineral oil and centrifuged in aBeckman ultracentrifuge at 40,000 rpm in a 50 Ti head at 150C. for at least 2 days. The DNA is located under a long wave UV lamp and the heavier band containing the plasmid DNA is removed with a syringe by puncturing the tub wall from the side.The samples are extensively dialysed against 200 volumes of TES buffer at 4 C. Following dialysis, 1 10 sample volume of a 3 M NaAcetate stock solution is added and the plasmid DNA is precipitated by the addition of 2 volumes of cold ethanol. The resulting pellet is then lyophilized and redissolved in 200 iil 10 mM tris buffer, pH 7.8 containing 1 mM EDTANa2 and frozen for storage.Example 2 Isolation of Plasmid pUC6 from a Biologically Pure Culture of itreptomvces espinosus, biotype 23724a, NRRL 11439 The spores from a biologically pure culture of Streptomyces espinosus biotype 23724a, NRRL 11,439, are inoculated into 10 ml. of the following Difco Antibiotic Medium No. 3 Broth Difco Labs.,Detroit, Michigan 0.15 Beef extract 0.15 yeast extract 0.5 peptone 0.1 glucose 0.35 NaCl 0.368 K2HPO4 0.132 KH2PO4. The medium has previously been sterilized in a 50 ml. Erlenmeyer flask. After inoculation, the flask is incubated at 370C. for about 36 to 48 hours on a Gump or New Brunswick rotary shaker operating at 100 250 rpm. Upon completion of the incubation, the mycelia broth suspension in the flasks is homogenized under sterile conditions and is then mixed in a sterile 125 ml. Erlenmeyer flask containing 10 ml.of the above medium and also, advantageously 68 w v sucrose and 1 w v glycine. The addition of sucrose and glycine facilitates the subsequent lysing of the cells. The amounts of sucrose and glycine in the medium can be varied by routine adjustments with the goal being to facilitate the subsequent lysing of the cells. The flask is then incubated further for another 36 to 48 hours at 370C. on a Gump rotary shaker, as above. After this incubation, the mycelia are separated from the broth by low speed centrifugation, for example, at 6000 x g. for 15 minutes at 40C. and decantation of the supernatant from the mycelial pellet. The supernatant is discarded and the pellet is resuspended in 1.5 ml. of an isotonic buffer containing ethylenediaminotetraacetic acid EDTA and sucrose, e.g., TES buffer E0.03 M tris hydroxymethyl aminomethane Tris , 0.005 M EDTA and 0.05 M NaCl pH 8.03 containing 20 w v sucrose. Next, 1.5 ml. of a 5 mg. ml. solution of lysozyme in the same buffer is added and the mixture is incubated at 370C. for 30 minutes with occasional mixing. Then, 1.5 ml. of 0.25 M EDTA pH 8.0 is added and this mixture is incubated 15 minutes at 370C. Subsequently, the cell suspension is lysed by the addition of 2.5 ml. of a lytic mixture, e.g. 1.0 w v Brij 58 a detergent sold by Pierce Chem. Co., Rockford, Illinois , 0.4g w v deoxycholic acid, 0.05 M Tris pH 8.0 and 0.06 M EDTA and incubation of this mixture at 37 C. for 20 minutes. The lysate is then sheared by passing it 5 10 times through a 10 ml. pipette. The sheared lysate is then digested with ribonuclease 140 vg ml. and pronase 300 vg ml. for an additional 20 minutes at 370C. Alternatively, the cell lysozyme EDTA mixture can be digested with ribonuclease and pronase before lysis with a lytic agent such as 2 sodium dodecyl sulfate in water. This crude lysate material is then mixed with a salt, for exam ple, cesium chloride preferred , and cesium sulfate, and the inter calating dye ethidium bromide to give a solution of density p 1.550. This solution is centrifuged to equilibrium at 145,000 x g. is6pycnic density gradient centrifugation . The covalently closed circular plasmid DNA is then visible in the centrifuge tube under long wave ultraviolet 320 nm illumination as a faint fluorescent band below the intensely flu6resent.band of linear chromosomal and plasmid DNA s. Covalently closed circular plasmid DNA is prepared for character ization by removing it from the isopycnic gradients, extracting the ethidium bromide by two treatments with one third volume of isopropyl alcohol and then dialyzing the aqueous phase against an appropriate buffer, e.g., 0.1 x SSC buffer 0.015 M NaCl, 0.0015 M sodium citrate pH 7.4 to yield essentially pure pUC6. Characteristics of pUC6 Molecular Weight ca. 6.0 megadaltons Copies per Cell 20 40 Restriction Endonuclease Sensitivities pUC6 has the following sensitivities to restriction endonucleases. Plasmid Sensitivities to Restriction Endonucleases Cleavage Sites num Cleavage Sites Enzyme pUC6 Enzyme pUC6 Bgi 7 jlII Bglll 1 BamHI O HpaI O HpaII Many HindIlI O EcoRI O KpnI O PstI 0 PvuII 4 MboII 5 AvaI 7 XbaI O XhoI 2 SalI 5 6 Soma I Smal HinclI 7These results were obtained by digestion of pUC6 DNA in the presence of an excess of restriction endonuclease. The number of restriction sites were determined from the number of resolvable fragments in either 0 7 or 1.0 agarose gels.Example 3 Preparation of Cointegrate Plasmids pUC1012 and pUC1013 Plasmids pUC6 and pBR322, prepared as described above, are linearized by digestion with restriction endonucleases BglII and BamHI respectively. Plasmid pBR322 DNA is digested with BamHI restriction enzyme by mixing 50 ul. of DNA 0.5 g solution in TE buffer 0.01 M Tris .HCl, 0.001 M Na2 EDTA pH 8.0 with 50 vl of 2X re sitriction buffer Post et al., Cell 15, 215 229, 1978 and 4 units ofBamHI enzyme preparation. This mixture is incubated at 370C. for 1 hour. The digest is then applied to a 1 preparative low melting point agarose gel and electrophoresed for 3 hours at 50 volts and 4 C.The resolved DNA fragments are visualized by ethidium bromide staining and long wave ultraviolet light illumination. The region of the gel containing the DNA iS excised from gel and heated to 65 C. in the presence of 1.5 ml. of TE buffer to melt the gel and release theDNA from the gel matrix. This suspension is chilled and centrifuged at 37,000 xg to pellet the agarose. The supernatant is decanted and saved. The agarose pellet is extracted a second time by heating to 650C. with TE buffer. The two supernatants are pooled and ethanol precipitated by the addition of 0.1 volume of Na Acetate and 2 volumes 95 ethanol at 200C. The DNA precipitate is collectd by centrifugation at 85,000 xg at 4 C. for 60 minutes. The precipitate is redissolved in 100 vl of TE buffer.This sample is used for ligation as described below. Plasmid pUC6 is subjected to BglII digestion in a reaction mixture containing 50 pl of pUC6 DNA 0.5 9 solution in TE buffer and 50 pl of 2X BglII restriction buffer and 4 units of BglII enzyme.This mixture is incubated at 37 C. for one hour and the digest placed in and isolated from a preparative agarose gel electrophoresis system as described above. For ligation, 25 pl of BamHI digested pBR322 DNA, 25 vl of BglII digested pUC6 DNA and 20 vl DD H20 are combined. Ten ul 100 mM DDT, 10 pl 50 mM MgCl2 and 10 iil of 0.5 mM ATP are combined with the restricted DNA mixture. Finally, 1.0 u of T4 DNA ligase is added and the sample is kept in ice for 1 2 days. For transformation into E. coli CSHSO, inoculum is grown overnight in L broth and diluted 1 100 into fresh L broth the next day.The cells are incubated at 370C. and allowed to grow to an OD6so of 0.2. At this point 50 ml. of culture is centrifuged in the cold, the pellet resuspended in 20 ml. cold 100 mM Call2, incubated at OOC. for 20 25 minutes and centrifuged again. The pellet is then resuspended in 0.5 ml. cold 100 mM CaCl2 solution and kept at 0 40C. for 24 hours. Dagert, M. and Ehrlich, S. D. 1979, Gene 6 23 28 One hundred iil of pUC1012 and pUC1013 ligase mixture see above is mixed with 500 vl cell suspension. This mixture is kept in ice for 10 minutes, and then at.370C. for 5 minutes.Ten to 20 ml. of L broth is added and the cell suspension is incubated 1 2 hours at 370C. Next, 100 vl aliquots are plated on freshly prepared agar plates containing 25 ml. of L broth, 1.5 agar, and 50 wg of ampicillin ml. Colonies are selected and scored for tetracycline sensitivity. Suspected recombinant DNA containing transformants are then grown in 25 ml. cultures. Cleared lysates are prepared by pelleting the cells from the culture medium at 10,000 xg. The pellet is resuspended in 10 ml. of cold TES buffer 30 mM Tirs.HCl, 5 mM Na2 EDTA and 50 mM NaCl, pH 8.0 and pelleted again.This pellet is resuspended in 1 ml. of TES buffer containing 20 sucrose. 0.2 ml. of lysozyme solution 5 mg. ml. in TES is added and incubated on ice 15 minutes at which time 0.4 ml. of 0.25 M Na2 EDTA pH 8.0 is added and the incubation continued 15 minutes. 1.6 ml. of a lytic mix 1 Brij 58, 0.4X Na deoxycholate, 0.05 M Tris.HCl, 62.5 mM Na2 EDTA pH 8.0 is added and the lysate incubated an additional 15 minutes at 4 C. The lysate is sheared by passage 5 times through a 10 ml. pipette. The bulk of the cellular DNA and debris are removed by centrifugation at 48,000 xg for 30 minutes. The cleared lysate is digested successively for 15minute intervals with pancreatic RNAse A 100 mcg. ml. and Pronase 200 mcg. ml. at 370C. These lysate are then centrifuged in a CsClethidium bromide isopycnic density gradient. Plasmid DNA isolated from these gradients is characterized by digestion with restriction endonuclease. Example 4 Preparation of Plasmid pUC1O1S Plasmid pUC1012, prepared as described in Example 3, is linearized by digestion with restriction endonuclease XhoI as follows Approximately 0.5 9 of pUC1012 DNA in 25 ul of TE buffer is mixed with an equal volume of 2X XhoI restriction enzyme buffer 0.3M NaCl, 12 mM Tris.HCl EpH 7.4, 12 mM MgCl2, 12 mM 2 mercaptoethanol and two units of XhoI restriction enzyme. This sample is digested for one hour at 37 C. The resulting digest is then applied to a 1 preparative low melting point agarose gel and electrophoresed for 3 hours at 50 volts and 4 C. The remainder of the agarose gel procedure is as described above in Example 3. The resulting largest fragment of pUC1012 DNA precipitate is ligated, as described above in Example 3. Transformation of the ligated plasmid, which is now plasmid pUC1015, into E, coli CSH50 is as described in Example 3.Example 5 Preparation of Plasmid pUC1O1G By following the procedures of Example 4, but replacing the starting plasmid pUC1012 with plasmid pUC1013, there is obtained plasmid pUC1016. Transformation into E. coli CSH 50 is accomplished by the procedures of Example 3.Example 6 Preparation of Plasmid pUC1022. Plasmid pUC1012, prepared as described in Example 3, is linearized by digestion with restriction endonuclease PvuII as follows Approximately 0.5 iig of pUC1012 DNA in 25 ul of TE buffer is mixed with an equal volume of 2X PvuII restriction enzyme buffer 0.3M NaCl, 12 mM Tris.HCl gpH 7.4j, 12 mM MgCl2, 12 mM 2 mercaptoethanol and two units of PvuII restriction enzyme. This sample is digested for one hour at 37 C. The resulting digest is then applied to a 1X preparative low melting point agarose gel and electrophoresed for 3 hours at 50 volts and 4 C. The remainder of the agarose gel procedure is as described above in Example 3. The resulting largest fragment of pUC1012 DNA precipitate is ligated, as described above in Example 3. Transformation of the ligated plasmid, which is now plasmid pUC1022, into E. coli RR1 is as described above in Example 3, with the exception that E. coli RR1 is substituted for. E. coli CSH5O. Example 7 Preparation of Plasmid pUC1023 By following the procedures of Example 6, but replacing the starting plasmid pUC1012 with plasmid pUC1013, and, also, ligating the fragment containing the ampicillin resistance gene of the digested plasmid DNA, there is obtained plasmid pUC1023. Transformation intoE. coli RR1 is accomplished by the procedures of Example 3, with the exception that E. coli RR1 is substituted for E. coli CSH50. Recombinant plasmids were characterized by cleavage with restriction endonucleases. Restriction endonucleases were obtained as commercial preparations from Miles Laboratories and New England Biolabs. Enzyme digestions were prepared in accordance with the conditions specified by the suppliers using at least a two fold excess of endonuclease. The digested samples were applied to 0.7 1 agarose gels and were electrophoresed for 2 hours at a constant applied voltage of 10 15 v cm of gel height. Sharp, P. A., Sugden, J. and Sambrook, J. 1973.Detection of two restriction endonuclease activities in Haemophilus parainfluenzae using analytical agarose ethidium bromide electrophoresis. Biochemistry 12, 3055 30633. The molecular weights of restriction fragments were determined relative to the standard migration patterns of bacteriophage lambda DNA digested with enzyme HindIII EMurray, K. and Murray, N. E. 1975. Phage lambda receptor chromosomes for DNA fragments made with restriction endonuclease 111 of Haemophilus influenzae and restriction enconuclease I of Escherichia coli. J. Mol. Biol. 98, 551 564 or EcoRI Helling, R. B., Goodman, H M. and Boyer, H. W. 1974.Analysis of endonuclease R EcoRI fragments of DNA from lambdoid bacteriophages and other viruses by agarose gel electrophoresis. J. Virology 14, 1235 12443. Cointegrate plasmids pUC1012 and pUC1013, and restructured plasmids pUC1O1S, pUC1016, pUC1022 and pUC1023 can be isolated from theirE. coli hosts by well known procedures, e.g., using the cleared lysate isopycnic density gradient procedures described above. Once transformants containing pUC1012, pUC1013, pUC1O1S, pUC1016, pUC1022, or pUC1023 are identified, they are separated as pure entities in a pure culture. These plasmids can be differentiated as distinct entities by their unique restriction patterns as would be predicted by their restriction maps. As shown herein, plasmid pUC1012 or pUC1013 can be used as a substrate for in vitro deletion restructuring, e.g., pUC1012 or pUC1013 can be digested with XhoI and PvuII to form derivatives lack ing some of the BclI, XhoI and PvuII restriction sites. This advan tageously also gives a smaller plasmid. Examples of other vectors which can be used in the invention as a substitute for pBR322 are pBR313, which codes for ampicillin and tetracycline resistance, pSC101, which codes for teteracycline resistance, pCR11, which codes for kanamycin resistance, X bacteriophage vectors, for example, charon phages, and yeast 2 plasmid DNA. Examples of other hosts for the vectors are any E. coli K 12 derivative Bacteriological Reviews, Dec. 1972, pages 525 5573 these have been approved by the NIH Guidelines and yeasts, other fungi, or other bacteria. It is recognized that these latter hosts would also have to be approved by the NIH Guidelines. The work described herein was all done in conformity with physical and biological containment requirements specified in the NIHGuidelines.