# Substituted benzamides.

## Abstract
Compounds of formula I and pharmaceutically accept able salts thereof

## Claims
Claims 1. A compound of formula I and pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof EMI36.1 wherein R1 is a C16 alkoxy group R2 and R3 are the same or different and are hydrogen. halogen, CE3, C1 7 acyl, C1 7 acylamino, C16 alkyl S O n wherein n is 0, 1 or 2, nitro, or amino, aminocarbonyl or amino sulphonyl optionally substituted by one or two C1 6 alkyl groups or R1 and R2 taken together are methylendioxy or 2 ethylenedioxy in which case R3 is any one of the groups given for R1 and R2 above R4 is hydrogen or C1 6 alkyl R5 is hydrogen, C1 6 alkyl, phenyl or phenyl C1 6 alkyl, either of which phenyl moieties may be substituted by C 1 6 alkyl, C16 alkoxy, CF3 or halogen, and R6 is hydrogen or R5 and R6 are attached to two adjacent carbon atoms and form together with these two carbon atoms a fused benzene ring, which benzene ring may be substituted by C16 alkyl, C16 alkoxy, CF3 or halogen and j is 1 to 4 and p is O to 2 and q is O to 3. 2. A compound of formula I wherein the moiety of formula II EMI37.1 has the structure III EMI37.2 3. A compound according to claim 1 or 2 wherein the moiety of formula V EMI37.3 has the structure VI EMI37.4 wherein j is 1 or 2 q is O to 2, p is O to 2, and R8 is hydrogen, C16 alkyl, phenyl or phenyl Cl 1 6 alkyl, either of which phenyl moieties may be substituted by C16 alkyl, C16 alkoxy, CF3 or halogen. 4. A compound according to claim 3 wherein p is O or 1. 5. A compound according to claim 3 or 4 wherein q is O or 1. 6. A compound according to any one of claims 3 to 5 wherein R8 is hydrogen or methyl. 7. 4 Amino 5 chloro 2 methoxy N 3 quinolizidinylmethyi benzamide. 8. Isomer A of 4 amino 5 chloro 2 methoxy N 3 quinolizidinyl methyl benzamide. 9. A process for the preparation of a compound according to claim 1 characterised by reacting an acid of the formula X EMI38.1 or a reactive derivative thereof with a compound of formula XI EMI38.2 the variables groups being defined in claim 1, and thereafter if desired or necessary converting a group R 2 or R in the thus formed compound of the 3 formula I to another group R2 or R3. 10. A pharmaceutical composition comprising a compound according to any one of claims 1 to 8 and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier. 11. A compound according to claim 1 for use in treatment of disorders related to impaired gastric emptying.

## Description
SUBSTITUTED BENZAMIDES This invention relates to novel substituted benzamides having useful pharmacological properties, to pharmaceutical compositions containing them, and to a process for their preparation. West German Offenlegungsschrift No.27 48 260.6 discloses that compounds of the formula A , and their pharmaceutically acceptable saltsEMI1.1 wherein R1 is a C 1 6 alkoxy group R2 and R3 are the same or different and are hydrogen, halogen, CF3, hydroxy, C16 alkoxy, C27 acyl, amino, amino substituted by one or two C16 alkyl groups, C27 acyl amino, amincarbonyl or aminosulphone optionally substituted by one or two C1 6 alkyl groups, C1 6 alkylsulphone or nitro groups X is either a nitrogen atom, in which case m n is 3 to 5, m is 2 to 4 and n is 1 to 3 or X is Cli in which case m n is 2 to 5, m is 1 to 5, and n is 0 to 4 p is 0 to 3 R4 is hydrogen, C16 alkyl, phenyl or phenyl C1 6 alkyl, either of which phenyl moiety may be substituted by C16 alkyl, C16 alkoxy, CF3 or halogen, and R5 is hydrogen or R4 and R5 are attached to two adjacent carbon atoms and form together with these two carbon atoms a fused benzene ring, which benzene ring may be substituted by C16 alkyl, C16 alkoxy, CF3 or halogen have useful pharmaceutical activity.For example it was disclosed that such compounds may be used for treatment of disorders of the gastro intestinal function, such as retarded gastric emptying, dyspepsia, flatulence, oesophagal reflux, peptic ulcer and the like and or for the treatment of emesis. It has now been found that a certain class of substituted benzamides structurally distinct from those compounds of the formula A also has useful pharmacological activity. For example the compounds have a stimulatory effect on gastric motility, and thus may be used in the treatment of disorders related to impaired gastrointestinal motility such as retarded gastric emptying, dyspepsia, flatulence, oesophagal reflux, peptic ulcer and emesis. The compounds also have a good theraFeutic ratio based upon CNS effects. Accordingly, the present invention provides a compound of the formula I , and pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof EMI2.1 wherein R1 is a C16 alkoxy group R2 and R3 are the same or different and are hydrogen. halogen, CF3, C1 7 acyl, C 7 acylamino, C1 6 alkyl S O n wherein n is 0, 1 or 2, nitro, or amino, aminocarbonyl or aminosulphonyl optionally substituted by one or two C16 alkyl groups or R1 and R2 taken together are methylendioxy or ethylenedioxy in which case R3 is any one of the groups given for R1 and R2 above R4 is hydrogen or C16 alkyl R5 is hydrogen, C1 6 alkyl, phenyl or phenyl C16 alkyl, either of which phenyl moieties may be substituted by C16 alkyl, C16 alkoxy, CF3 or halogen, and R6 is hydrogen or R5 and R6 are attached to two adjacent carbon atoms and form together with these two carbon atoms a fused benzene ring1 which benzene ring may be substituted by C16 alkyl, C1 6 alkoxy, CF3 or halogen and j is 1 to 4 and p is 0 to 2 and q is 0 to 3. Within formula I there is a group of compounds wherein R1, R4, R5, R6, j, q and p are as defined andR2 and R3 are the same or different and are hydrogen, halogen, CF3, C1 7 acyl, C1 7 acylamino, C1 6 alkyl sulphonyl, nitro or amino, aminocarbonyl or aminosulphonyl optionally substituted by one or two C1 6 alkyl groups. Suitable examples of the group R1 include methoxy, ethoxy and n and iso propoxy. Preferably R1 is a methoxy group. Suitable examples of the groups R2 and R3 include the following atoms and groups hydrogen, chlorine, bromine, CF3, formyl, acetyl, propionyl, n and isobutyryl, formylamino, acetylamino, propionylamino, nand iso butyrylamino, methyl, ethyl or and n and iso propylsulphone, nitro, amino, aminocarbonyl and aminosulphonyl and amino, aminocarbonyl, and aminosulphonyl substituted by one or two methyl, ethyl, nor iso propyl groups. When R1 and R2 taken together,are methylenedioxy or ethylenedioxy, they are most suitably ethylenedioxy. Particularly suitable R2 and R3 groups include hydrogen, halogen, amino, and acylated amino as defined. It is generally preferred that R2 is in the 4position relative to the carbonyl side chain for greater activity in the resultant compound of the formula I . For the same reason it is generally preferred that R3 is in the 5 position relative to the carbonyl side chain. Particularly preferred R2 groups include 4 amino and 4 acylated amino as defined. Preferably R2 is 4 amino. Particularly preferred R groups include 3 5 halo, such as 5 chloro. Preferably the amide and side chain nitrogen atoms are separated by 2 or 3 carbon atoms Suitable examples of R4 include hydrogen, methyl, ethyl, n and iso propyl, n , sec and tert butyl, preferably hydrogen or methyl, in particular hydrogen Suitable examples of R5 include hydrogen, methyl, ethyl, n and iso propyl, n , sec and tert butyl phenyl, phenyl methyl, phenylethyl, phenyl n propyl phenyl iso propyl, phenyl n , sec and tert butyl, any of which phenyl moieties may be substituted by alkyl, C16 alkoxy, CF3 or halogen. Suitable examples of such optional phenyl substituents include methyl, ethyl, n and iso propyl, n , sec and tert butyl methoxy, ethoxy, n and iso propoxy CF3, fluoro, chloro and bromo. Preferred examples of R5 include hydrogen methyl1 phenyl and benzyl. Often R5 will substitute the carbon atom that is adjacent to the nitrogen atom in the R5 R6 substitued ring. Mostly such a R5 group will be methyl. When R5 and R6 represent a fused benzene ring, suitable optional substituents of that fused benzene ring include methyl, ethyl, nand iso propyl, n , secand tert butyl methoxy, ethoxy and n and iso propoxy CF3, fluoro, chloro and bromo. Suitably q is 0, 1 or 2, preferably 1. Suitably p is 0, 1 or 2, preferably 1. Often both p and q will be 1. The pharmaceutically acceptable salts of the compound of the formula I include acid addition salts with conventional acids such as hydrochloric, hydrobromic, phosphoric, sulphuric, citric, tartaric, lactic and acetic acid and the like. The pharmaceutically acceptable salts of the compounds of the formula I also include quaternary ammonium salts.Examples of such salts include such compounds quaternised by compounds such as R7 Y wherein R7 is C16 alkyl, phenyl C1 6 alkyl or C57 cycloalkyl, and Y is an anion of an acid. Suitable examples of R7 include methyl, ethyl and n and iso propyl and benzyl and phenylethyl. Suitable examples of Y include the halides such as chloride, bromide and iodide. From the aforesaid it will be seen that favourably the moiety of formula II EMI5.1 in a compound of the formula I will have the structure III . EMI6.1 A suitable moiety of formula II may also be of formula IV EMI6.2 Similarly, the moiety of formula V EMI6.3 in a compound of formula I favourably has the structure VI EMI6.4 wherein j is 1 or 2 q is O to 2, p is O to 2, and R8 is hydrogen, C1 6 alkyl, phenyl or phenyl Cl 6 alkyl, either of which phenyl moieties may be substituted by C16 alkyl, C1 6 alkoxy, CF3 or halogen. Suitably q is O or 1 and p is O or 1. When p is O or 1, q may also suitably be 2. Preferably q and p are both 1. Suitable and preferred examples of R8 include those listed hereinbefore for R5 Often R8 will substitute the carbon atom that is adjacent to the nitrogen atom in the R8 substituted ring. Particularly preferred examples of R8 include hydrogen and methyl. The moiety of formula V , as defined, in a compound of formula I can also suitably have the structures VII , VIII or it . EMI7.1 wherein q is O or 1, p is O or 1 and Rg is hydrogen, C16 alkyl, C16 alkoxy, CF3 or halogen, and j is as defined. q and p are preferably 1. Suitable examples of Rg include hydrogen and the groups listed hereinbefore as suitable optional substituents for the fused benzene ring that can be formed by R5 and R6 and the carbon atoms to which they are attached in formula I . It will of course be realised that the compounds of the formula I have asymmetric centres, and thus are capable of existing in a number of stereoisomeric forms. The invention extends to each of these stereoisomeric forms, and to mixtures thereof including racemates . The different stereoisomeric forms may be separated one from the other by the usual methods1 or any given isomer may be obtained by stereospecific or asymmetric synthesis. The invention also provides a process for the preparation of a compound of the formula I , which process comprises reacting an acid of the formula X EMI8.1 or a reactive derivative thereof, with a compound of formula XI EMI8.2 the variable groups being as defined in formula I and thereafter if desired or necessary converting a groupR2 or R3 in the thus formed compound of the formula I to another group R2 ore3. Reactive derivative when used herein means a derivative of the compound X which can be reacted with the compound XI to form an amido linkage between the acid group of the compound X and the amino group of the compound XI . Often this reactive derivative will be the acid halide, such as the acid chloride, of the acid X . In such cases, the reaction will normally be carried out in an inert solvent, preferably in the presence of an acid acceptor. The inert solvent can be any solvent inert to both reactants, such as benzene, toluene, diethylether and the like. The acid acceptor is suitably an organic base such as a tertiary amine e.g. triethylamine, trimethylamine, pyridine or picoline, or an inorganic acid acceptor, such as calcium carbonate, sodium carbonate, potassium carbonate or the like.It should also be noted that it is possible to use certain acid acceptors as the inert solvent, for example organic bases. Another useful reactive derivative of the acid IX that may be used is an acid ester, such as a methyl, ethyl, propyl or butyl ester, in which case the reaction is normally carried out by heating the reactants together in an inert solvent such as ethylene glycol. The reaction may also be carried out by forming an anhydride of the acid X in the usual manner, and reacting that with the compound XI normally a conventional mixed anhydride will be used or by reacting the acid X and the compound XI in the presence of a dehydrating catalyst such as a carbodiimide, for example dicyclohexyl carbodiimide. The intermediates of the formulae X and XI are either known compounds or can be prepared by analogous processes to known compounds. Compounds of formula X for example may be synthesised from the corresponding ketone which is converted to a nitrile using P toluene sulphonyl methyl isocyanate followed by reduction with a reducing agent such as lithium aluminium hydride. The acid addition salts of compounds of the formula I may be prepared in entirely conventional manner by reacting a compound of the formula I in base form with the chosen acid. The quaternary ammonium salts of the compounds of the formula I may be prepared in conventional manner for such salts, such as by reaction of the chosen compound of the formula I with a compound R7Y as defined. This reaction is suitably carried out in an appropriate solvent such as acetone, methanol, ethanol, dimethylformamide and the like, at ambient or raised temperature and pressure. The interconversion of suitable groups R2 and R3 after formation of a compound of the formula I may be carried out by conventional methods. By way of example, nitro groups may be reduced to amino groups in the normal manner, and acylamino groups may be converted to amino also by conventional methods. Also a compound of the formula I wherein R2 or R3 is halogen can be prepared by a conventional halogenation of the corresponding compound of the formula I wherein the said R2 or R3 is hydrogen. Accordingly it will be realised that compounds of the formula I containing an R2 or R3 group which is convertible to another R2 or R3 group are useful intermediates, and as such form an important aspect of the invention. The compounds of the formula I have useful pharmaceutical properties. The invention thereof also provides a pharmaceutical composition comprising a compound of the formula I or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, together with a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier. Such compositions may be adapted for oral or parenteral administration, and as such may be in the form of tablets, capsules, syrups, reconstitutable powders, injectable and infusable solutions or suspensions and the like the compositions may also be in the form of suppositories and the like. Normally orally administrable compositions are preferred. Tablets and capsules for oral administration may be in unit dose presentation form, and may contain conventional excipients such as binding agents, fillers, tabletting lubricants, disintegrants, and acceptable wetting agents and the like. The tablets may be coated according to methods well known in normal pharmaceutical practice. Oral liquid preparations may be in the form of, for example, aqueous or oily suspensions, solutions, emulsions, syrups, or elixirs, or may be presented in a dry product for reconstitution with water or other suitable vehicle before use. Such liquid preparations may contain conventional additives such as suspending agents, emulsifying agents, nonaqueous vehciles which may include edible oils , preservatives, and if desired conventional flavouring or colouring agents, and the like. For parenteral administration, fluid unit dosage forms are prepared utilizing the compound of the formula I and a sterile vehicle. The compound, depending on the vehicle and concentration used, can be either suspended or dissolved in the vehicle. In preparing solutions the compound can be dissolved for injection and filter sterilized before filling into a suitable vial or ampoule and sealing. Advantageously, adjuvants such as a local anaesthetic, preservatives and buffering agents can be dissolved in the vehicle. Parenteral suspensions are prepared in substantially the same manner except that the compound is suspended in the vehicle instead of being dissolved and sterilized by exposure to ethylene oxide before suspending in the sterile vehicle. Advantageously, a surfactant or wetting agent is included in the composition to facilitate uniform distribution of the compound. As is common practice, the compositions will usually be accompanied by written. or printed directions for use in the medical treatment concerned. It will of course be realised that the precise dosage used in the treatment of any of the hereinbefore described disorders will depend on the actual compound of the formula I used, and also on other factors such as the seriousness of the disorder being treated. The invention further provides a method of treatment of maladies in humans comprising the administration of an effective amount of a compound of the formula I or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof. The effective amount will depend in the usual way on a number of factors such as the nature and severity of the malady to be treated, and the actual compound used. Usually we have found that a dose of 0.1 to 50 mg kg per day is quite sufficient to achieve a satisfactory treatment. By. way of illustration, unit doses will suitably contain 0.1 to 20 mg of the compound of formula I , for example 0.5 to 10 mgs, administered2 to 6 times per day. Compounds of the formula I have the ability to potentiate the effect of conventional analgesics in migraine treatment when administered concurrently with the analgesic. Thus the invention provides a pharmaceutical composition comprising a compound of the formula I and an analgesic. The compound of the formula I and the analgesic, such as aspirin or paracetamol, will be present in the composition in amounts generally similar to their usual effective dose. The composition can be a combination product, for example a tablet or capsule containing both a compound of the formula I and an analgesic for oral administration, or a twin pack comprising the two active ingredients made up for separate administration. The invention accordingly provides a method of treatment of migraine comprising the administration to the sufferer of a compound of the formula I and an analgesic. The following Examples illustrate the invention EXAMPLE 1 4 AcetVlamino 5 chloro 2 methoxy N 3 quinolizidinvl methyl benzamide sa EMI13.1 4 Acetylamino 5 chloro 2 methoxy benzoic acid 2.2 g was heated at 500 with thionyl chloride 20 ml for 30 minutes. The solvent was evaporated, toluene was added and re evaporated. The crude acid chloride was dissolved in toluene 70 ml , and triethylamine 5 ml was added, followed by 3 aminomethylquinolizidine 1.4 g .After 30 minutes, dilute sodium hydroxide 10, 5 ml was added, and the mixture extracted with ethyl acetate 3 x 100 ml . The organic extracts were combined, dried and evaporated to give an oily residue. Chromatography on neutral alumina 100 g, 5 deactivated with water eluting with ethyl acetate afforded one of the isomers A, 1.2 g, 37 of 4 acetvlamino 5 chloro 2 methoxy N 3 quinolizidinyl methyl benzamide as a gum. Later fractions consisted of a mixture from which the second isomer B, 0.5 g, 15 of 4 acetylamino 5 chloro 2 methoxv N 3 quinolizidinyl methv1 benzamide, m.p. 174 60 crystallised. EXAMPLE 2 4 Amino 5 chloro 2 methoxv N 3 quinolizidinvl methvl benzamide 2 EMI14.1 Isomer A 1.2 g of i 4 acetylamino 5 chloro 2 methoxy N 3 quinolizidinyl methyl benzamide was heated at reflux with potassium hydroxide 0.5 g in ethanol 10 ml and water 2 ml for 3 hours. Solvent was evaporated and the residue dissolved in ethyl acetate and water. The ethyl acetate extracts were combined dried and evaporated to give, after recrystallisation from ethyl acetate light petroleum, one of the isomers A, 0.81 g, 76 of 4 amino 5 chloro 2 methoxy N 3 quinolizidinyl methyl benzamide, m.p. 167 8 Similarly, hydrolysis of isomer B 0.5 g of 4 acetylamino 5 chloro 2 methoxy N 3 quinolizidinylmethyl benzamide gave one of the isomers B, 0.35 g, 78 of t 4 amino 5 chloro 2 methoxy N 3 quinolizidinvl methvl benzamide, m.p. 209 11 . All spectra were recorded in deuterochloroform as solvent unless otherwise stated and chemical shifts are quoted in unitsExample 1 Isomer A 1.74 1H, s, aromatic H , 1.84 1H, S, aromatic H , 1.95 2.30 2H, broad m, CONH and NHCOCH3 , 6.03 3H, S, OCH3 1 6.15 6.50 2H, m, NHCH2 , 7.1 9.0 19H, m, remaining H including 3H singlet at 7.73 for NHCOCH3 . Isomer B 1.74 1H, s, aromatic H , 1.84 1H, s, aromatic H , 2.08 2.42 2H, broad m, CONH and NHCOCH3 , 6.03 3H, s, OCH3 , 6.55 6.80 2H, m, NHCH2 , 7.0 9.0 19H, m, remaining H including 3H singlet at 7.75 for NHCOCH3 . Example 2 Isomer A 1.92 1H, S, aromatic 6H , 2.07 2.40 1H, broad m, CONH , 3.70 1H, s, aromatic 3H , 5.54 2H, s, NH2 , 6.13 3H, S, OCH3 , 6.20 6.57 2H, m, NHCH2 , 7.1 9.0 16H, remaining H . 2 Isomer B 1.95 1H, S, aromatic 6H , 2.2 2.45 1H, broad m, CONH , 3.73 1H, S, aromatic 3H , 5.53 2H, S, NH2 , 6.15 3H, S, OCH3 1 6.55 6.85 2H, m, NHCH2 I 7.05 9.1 16H, m, remaining H . Examples 3 to 12 The following compounds 3, 5, 7, 9 and 11 were prepared in a similar manner to Example 1 and compounds 4, 6, 8, 10 and 12 were prepared in a similar manner to Example 2. Example 3 4 Acetarnido 5 chloro 2 methoxy N l guinolizidinyl methyl benzamide 3 EMI16.1 Trituration of the crude oil product with ether ethylacetate 4 1 gave a solid which was separated and discarded. Evaporation of the mother liquors gave an oil which consisted of a mixture of isomers of the title compound 4.0 g, 70 . Example 4 4 Arnino 5 chloro 2 methoxv N 1 1 quinolizidinyl methyl benzamide 4 EMI17.1 Following the procedures outlined in Example 2 , the isomer mixture of t 4 acetamido 5 chloro 2 methoxyN l quinolizidinyl methyl benzamide 4.0 9 was converted to the crude product. Chromatography on Brockman II basic alumina 200 g , using methylene chloride as eluant, afforded one of the isomers A, 0.9 g, 15 of 4 amino 5 chloro 2 methoxy N 11 quinolizidinyl methyl benzamide mp 155 6 . Elution with chloroform gave a mixture from which a solid was obtained, mainly isomer B 1.0 g, 20 of t 4 amino 5 chloro 2 methoxy N l quinolizidinyl methyl benzamide mp 118 25 . Isomer A 1.91 1H, s, aromatic 6H 2.0 2.45 1H, broad m, CON 3.63 1H, s, aromatic 3H 5.2 5.5 2H, broad s, NH2 6.09 3H, s, OCH3 6.2 6.75 3H, m, NHCH2 andoN CHs 7.0 9.0 15H, remaining Isomer B contains some Isomer A 1.91 1H, s, aromatic 6H 1.8 2.5 1H, broad m, CONH 3.63, 3.66 lH,2 s , aromatic 3H 5.3 5.6 2H, broad s, NH2 6.09, 6.14 3H, 2 s, OCH3 6.05 6.8 3H, m, NHCH2 and N CH 7.0 9.0 15H, remaining H Example 5 4 Acetamido 5 chloro 2 methoxy N ss 4 guinolizidinyl ethyl benzamide 5 EMI19.1 The title compound was isolated as a mixture of isomers 7.6 g, 40 mp 174 50C. 1.80 1H, s, aromatic H 1.92 1H, s, aromatic H 1.9 2.2 2H, broad s, CON and NHCOCH3 6.03 3H, s, OCH3 6.3 6.8 4H, m, NHCH2 , N CH and CH2 CH N 7.5 9.0 20H, m, remaining H including 3H singlet at 7.73 for NHCOCH3 Example 6 4 Amino 5 chloro 2 methoxy N ss 4 quinolizidinyl ethyl benzamide 6 EMI20.1 The title compound was isolated as a mixture of isomers 3.2 g, 50 mp 140 4 C. 1.92 1H, s, aromatic 6H 2.1 2.5 1H, m, CONH 3.67 1H, s, aromatic 3H 5.2 5.5 2H, m, NH2 6.15 3H, s, OCH3 6.2 6.9 4H, m, NHCH2 N CH and CH2 CH N 7.6 9.0 16H, m, remaining H Example 7 4 Acetamido 5 chloro 2 methoxy N 3 1 azabicyclo 5, 4, Ol hendecyl methyl l benzamide 7 EMI21.1 The title compound was prepared as a mixture of isomers 6.0 g, 75 and was isolated as an oil. 1.78 1H, s, aromatic H 1.89 1H, s, aromatic H 1.7 2.3 2H, m, CONH and NHCOCH3 6.13 3H, s, OCH3 6.1 6.8 m, 3H, NHCH2CH and N CH 7.0 9.0 m, 20H, remaining H including 3H singlet at 7.73 for NHCOCH3 Example 8 4 Amino 5 chloro 2 methoxy N 3 1 azabicyclo 5,4, 4, 0 hendecyl methyl benzamide 8 EMI22.1 The title compound was prepared as a mixture of isomers 2.5 g, 60 mp 136 400C. 1.94 1H, s, aromatic 6H 2.1 2.5 1H, m, CONH 3.68 lH, s, aromatic 3H 5.2 5.5 2H, m, NH2 6.15 3H, s, OCH3 6.4 7.0 3H, m, NHCH2CH and N CH 7.1 9.0 17H, m, remaining H Example 9 4 Acetamido 5 chloro 2 methoxy N 61 methyl 3 quinolizidinyl methyl benzamide 9 EMI23.1 The title compound was prepared as a mixture of isomers 5.0 g, 45 mp 147 500C. Example 10 4 Amino 5 chloro 2 methoxy N 6 methyl 3 quinolizidinylmetyl benzamide 10 EMI24.1 The title compound was prepared as a mixture of isomers 2.9 g, 70 mp 134 70C. d6DMSO 2.0 2.4 1H, m, CONH 2.31 1H, s, aromatic 6H 3.51 1H, s, aromatic 3H 4.0 4.3 2H, m, NH2 6.19 3H, s, OCH3 6.1 7.3 4H, m, NHCH2 , N CH , N CH CH3 8.0 9.2 18H, m, remaining H including 3H doubled.at 9.03, J 6Hz, CH CH3 . Example 11 4 Acetamido 5 chloro 2 methoxy N 2 ind methyl benzamide 11 EMI25.1 The title compound was prepared as a mixture of isomers 4.2 g, 90 and was isolated as an oil. Example 12 4 Amino 5 chloro 2 inethoxy N 2 indolizidinyl methyl benzamide 12 EMI26.1 The title compound was prepared as a mixture of isomers 1.3 g, 35 mp 159 600C. 1.93 1H, s, aromatic 6H 1.8 2.1 1H, m, CONH 3.70 1H, s, aromatic 3H 5.4 5.7 2H, m, NH2 6.12 3H, s, OCH3 6.3 6.7 2H, m, NHCH2 6.8 9.0 14H, m, remaining H Example 13 4 Acetamido 5 chloro 2 methoxy N 3 indolizidinvl methyl benzamide 13 EMI27.1 Following the procedures outlined in Example 1 , the 3 aminomethylindolizidine 3.0g was converted to the product as a mixture of isomers.Chromatography on Brookman II basic alumina 300 9 , using methylene chloride 0.5 methanol as eluant, gave one of the isomers of 4 acetamido 5 chloro 2 methoxy N 31 indolizidinyl methyl benzamide A, 2.0 9, 27 mp 121 2 . Elution with methylene chloride 2.5 methanol gave the second isomer B, 5.0 g, 67 of 4 acetamido 5 chloro2 methoxy N 3 indolizidinyl methyl benzamide mp 108 9 C. Isomer A 1.87 1H, s, aromatic H 1.90 1H, s, aromatic H 1.6 2.1 2H, m, CONH and NHCOCH3 6.07 3H, s, Ooh3 6.0 9.0 19H, remaining H including 3H singlet at 7.74 for NHCOCH3 Isomer B 1.88 1H, s, aromatic H 1.92 1H, s, aromatic 1.6 2.0 2H, m, CONH and NHCOCH3 6.11 3H, s, OCH3 6.0 9.0 19H, remaining H including 3H singlet at 7.74 for NHCOCH3 Example 14 4 Amino 5 chloro 2 methoxy N 3 indolizidinyl methyl benzamide 14 EMI29.1 Following the procedures outlined in Example 2 ,Isomer A 2.0 g of 4 acetamido 5 chloro 2 methoxyN 3 indolizidinylmethyl benzamide 13 was converted to one of the isomers A, 1.3 g, 70 of 4 amino 5chloro 2 methoxy N 3 indolizidinyl methyl benzamide, mp 164 6 . Similarly isomer B 5.0 g of 4 acetamido 5 chloro 2 methoxy N 3 indolizidinyl methyl benzamide 13 was converted to one of the isomers B, 2.5 g, 56 of 4 amino 5 chloro 2 methoxv N 3 indolizidinvl methyl benzamide, mp 169 71 C. Isomer A 1.89 1H, s, aromatic 6H 1.7 2.1 1H, m, CONH 3.70 1H, s, aromatic 3H 5.6 5.8 2H, m, NH2 6.11 3H, s, OCH3 6.05 9.00 16H, m, remaining H Isomer B d6DMSO 1.90 1H, s, aromatic 6H 1.9 2.25 1H, s, CONH 3.71 1H, s, aromatic 3H 5.4 5.8 2H, m, NH2 6.14 3H, s, OCH3 6.0 9.0 16H, m, remaining H Example 15 2 Methoxy 5 sulphamoyl N 3 indolizidinylmethyl benzamide 15 EMI31.1 Ethyl chloroformate 1.3 g was added, dropwise, to a cooled OOC solution of 2 methoxy 5 sulphamoyl benzoic acid 2.8 g and triethylamine 1.7 ml in dry dimethylformamide 20 ml and the solution was stirred at OOC for 30 minutes. A solution of t 3 aminomethylindolizidine 1.8 g in dry dimethylformamide 5 ml was added and the reaction mixture was stirred overnight. An excess of saturated sodium bicarborate solution was added and the mixture was evaporated to dryness. Extraction with chloroform, drying K2C03 and concentration gave an oil.Column chromatography on neutral de activated ldE water alumina gave, on elution with chloroform, initially a mixture of isomers, followed on further elution, by one of the isomers A, 0.9 g, 21 or 2 methoxy 5 sulphamoyl N 3 indolizidinylmethyl benzamide, mp 177 90. Re columningof the mixture, first on silica, eluting with 40 methanolic ethyl acetate and subsequently on 10 deactivated alumina eluting with chloroform gave the other isomer B, 0.6 9, 14 of 2 methoxy 5 sulph anoyl N 3 indolizidinyl methyl benzamide , mp 185 60C. Isomer A d6DMSO 1. 6 1.9 2H, m, CONH including 1H, d, at 8.21 J 2.4Hz for aryl 6 H 2.12 1H, d,d, aryl 4 H J 2.4Hz, 8.7Hz 2.6 2.85 3H, m, SO2NH2 including 1H, d at 7.29 J 8.7Hz for aryl 3 H 6.05 3H, s, OCH3 5 6.3 9.0 remaining H including d DMSO and HOD at 6.71 Isomer B 1.6 1.85 2H, m, CONH including 1H, d at 8.34 J 2.5Hz for aryl 6 H 2.09 1H, d,d, aryl 4H J 2.5Hz, 8.7Hz 2.5 2.85 3H, m, S02NH2 including 1H, d at 7.34, J 8.7Hz for aryl 3H 6.00 3H, s, OCH3 6.2 9.0 remaining H including d DMSO and HOD at 6.69 PHARMACOLOGICAL DATA GASTRIC MOTILITYIncrease in Intraqastric Pressure in the rat The compounds of the Examples were tested for pharmacological activity in increasing intra gastric pressure in the rat. Intragastric pressure changes were recorded from previously starved conscious and restrained rats using a fluid filled catheter inserted into the lumen of the stomach via a permanent gastric fistula. The catheter was connected to a physiological pressure transducer and pressure changes recorded on a hot wire pen recorder. In each animal a pre dose period of 40 minutes was allowed to obtain a measure of spontaneous activity. An index of activity was obtained by measuring the average height of pressure waves during 10 minute periods. Values for 4 such periods were obtained during assessment of spontaneous activity and for the 40 minute period after the administration of the Compounds. Student t test was applied to the difference in average values obtained for spontaneous and post compound activity. The minimum dose for activity is shown in Table 1. TABLE 1 Dose mq kq Compound of Example No. Subcut oral 2 Isomer A 0.2 5.0 2 Isomer B 5.0 5.0 14 Isomer B 0.2 CNS EFFECTS Compounds were also tested for their ability to inhibit apomorphine induced stereotypy in rodents.Inactivity in these tests may be indicative of a low propensity to produce extra pyramidal side effects in man. The tests used were as follows.Inhibition of apomorphine induced biting in the rat Apomorphine 5 mg kg sc induces a stereotypic gnawing behaviour in rats which can be measured by a subjective scoring system score 0 animal behaving normally score 1 increased locomotion activity with occassional sniffing and licking score 2 persistent licking of the bars of the cage with occassional biting score 3 more sustained biting score 4 intense biting at a particular part of the cage, animal no longer moving about. Animals are individually placed in wire cages and after being allowed to become acclimatised are injected with apomorphine 5 mg kg sc. Stereotypy is scored at 10 min intervals for 90 mins after apomorphine. Compounds are administered subcutaneously 15 minutes after the apomorphine. Compounds of Examples 2 A and B , 4 A andB , 8, 12 and 14 A and B were inactive in this test.Inhibition of apomorphine induced climbing in the mouse This test is based on that described by Protain,P. et al 1976 Psychopharmacol. 50, 1 6. Apomorphine 1 mg kg sc induced mice to climb the wall of a wire cage inverted food hopper 11 x 7.5 x 18 cm high . Mice acclimatised in their home cages in groups of 5 are placed under the hoppers immediately after the injection of apomorphine 1 mg kg SC. At 10, 20 and 30 minutes after injection climbing behaviour scored. The mice are observed for 30 seconds and scored according to the position in which they spend the majority of time score 0 four paws on floor of cage score 1 2 paws only on walls score 2 all four paws on wall of cage. The scores at all 3 times for each mouse are summed for apomorphine only and for apomorphine plus compound groups of mice Inhibition of climbing is then calculated as follows.EMI35.1 tb SEP inhibition SEP SEP 100 SEP SEP 100 SEP SEP SEP Total SEP scores SEP of SEP drug SEP treated SEP group tb SEP Total SEP scores SEP of SEP apomorphine SEP only tb SEP group SEP tb The Compound of Example 2 Isomer A was inactive in this test.The Compound of Example 14 has an ED50 of 20 mg kg sc Isomer A . 15 mg kg sc Isomer B .Toxicity No toxic effects were observed in the above tests.