# Tractors and fittings therefor.

## Abstract
A fitting for a tractor of the kind comprising an accessory carrying support device 10 and means 26, 27 for attaching the support device to the rear of a tractor 28 the support device having wheels 13 arranged to bear at least part of the load of the support device, and means 19 for steering the wheels of the support device, the steering means being arranged to synchronise the steering movement of the support device with the steering movement of the tractor.

## Claims
Claims 1. A fitting for a tractor, the fitting comprising an accessory carrying support device 10 and means 26, 27 for attaching the support device to the rear of a tractor, characterised in that the support device has wheels 13 arranged to bear at least part of the load of the support device, and means l9a, 19b for steering the wheels of the support device, the steering means being arrangeable to synchronise the steering movement of the support device with the steering movement of the tractor. 2. A fitting as claimed in Claim 1, adapted for attachment to an agricultural tractor. 3. A fitting as claimed in Claim 1 or Claim 2, the support device being arranged to carry an accessory in the form of a pair of pivotally mounted lifting arms 43 , for example for lifting a bucket, scoop, fork, snowplough, agricultural or other implement positioned between the arms. 4. A fitting as claimed in Claim 3, in which the pair of arms 43 is detachable from the support device. 5. A fitting as claimed in Claim 1 or Claim 2, the support device being arranged to carry an accessory in the form of a forklift mechanism 50, 51 or other vertically extending mechanism. 6. A fitting as claimed in Claim 5, in which the lifting mechanism is detachable from the support device. 7. A fitting as claimed in Claim 1, or Claim 2, the support device being arranged to carry an accessory in the form of a three point linkage 52, 53 . 8. A fitting as claimed in Claim 7, in which the three point linkage is hydraulically adjustable. 9. A fitting as claimed in Claim 7 or Claim 8, in which the three point linkage is detachable from the support device. 10. A fitting as claimed in Claim 2 or any one of Claims 3 to 9 when dependent from Claim 2, in which the means 26, 27 for attaching the support device to the rear of an agricultural tractor comprises means to attach the support device to the three point linkage at the rear of an agricultural tractor. 11. A fitting as claimed in any one of the preceding claims, in which the steering means l9a, l9b comprise means which, when the support device is attached to a tractor having steerable front wheels 29 and the front wheels of the tractor are turned, turn the wheels 13 of the support device in the opposite direction to the direction in which the front wheel of the tractor are turned. 12. A fitting as claimed in Claim 11, in which the steering means l9a, l9b comprise a control unit 30 which is connected to the wheels of the support device and is connectable to the steerable front wheels of a tractor to which the support device is attached, the control unit being operable by a driver of the tractor to steer both the wheels of the tractor and the wheels of the support device. 13. A fitting as claimed in Claim 11, in which the steering means 19a, l9b comprise a control unit 38 connectable between the steerable wheels of the tractor and the steerable wheels of the support device so that when the steering wheel 41 of the tractor is turned, the steerable wheels of the tractor and the wheels of the support device operate in synchronism. 14. A tractor or other vehicle provided with a fitting as claimed in any one of the preceding claims.

## Description
Tractors and fittings thereforThe invention relates to tractors and to fittings W refor. Tractors such as aFricultural tractor vehicles are well known. It is also well known that accessories may be attached to a tractor, such as buckets end fork lifts.Such accessories are normally either mounted at the front of the tractor on specially provided lifting arms, or at the rear of the tractor on the conventional three point linkage.If the accessories are mounted at the front of the tractor, there is the inconvenience of fitting the special lifting arms, and there are a number of other disadvantaees. When the accessory is raised to carry a load, driving visibility is obscured, and furthermore, if a very heavy load is carried, it may be necessary to fit counterweights to the tractor. A further severe disadvantage is that the accessory is not very manoeuvrable and it may take several back and forward movements of the tractor to negotiate the accessory into a desired position for loading or urloridinpr. If the accessories are mounted at the rear of the tractor, they can be fitted more conveniently, using the conventional three point linkage, and visibility is no longer obscured.However counterweights may still be needed when lifting a heavy load, and manoeuvrability is still limited. Sne invention as claimed solves the problem of providing accessories such as a bucket or fork lift which is more manoeuvrable than the known accessories, and can support rreater locus without the need for counterweights. The invention provides a fitting for a tractor, the fitting comprising an accessory carrying support device and means for attaching the support device to the rear of the tractor, characterised in that the support device has wheels arranged to bear at least part of the load of the support device, and means for steering the wheels of the support device, the steering means being arrangeable to synchronise the steering movement of the support device with the steering movement of the tractor.With the fitting according to the invention, any load is at least partially supported by the wheels of the support device, rendering counterweights on the tractor unnecssary, and since the steering movement of the support device is synchronised with the steering movement of the tractor, any accessory carried by the support device is extremely maneeuvrable and may, for example, be reversed into a space by means of a single reverse movement of the tractor, whereas a conventional accessory might require the tractor to reverse once, move forward, and then reverse again to position the accessory in the same space.The fitting may be adapted for attachment to an agricultural tractor.The support device may be arranged to carry an accessory in the form of a pair of pivotally mounted lifting arms, for example for lifting a bucket, scoop, fork, snowplough, agricultural or other implement positioned between the arms.Preferably the pair of arms is detachable from the support device.The support device may be arranged to carry an accessory in the form of a forklift mechanism or other vertically extending lifting mechanism. The lifting mechanism is preferably detachable from the support device. The support device may be arranged to carry an accessory in the form of a three point linkage, for example similar to a conventional three point linkage of an agricultural tractor. The three point linkage may be hydraulically a ustaSle and is preferably detachable from the support device.Preferably the means for attaching the support device to the rear of an agricultural tractor comprises means to attach the support device to the three point linkage at the rear of an agricultural tractor.Preferably the steering means comprise means which, when the support device is attached to a tractor having steerable front wheels and the front wheels of the tractor are turned, turn the wheels of the support device in the opposite direction to the direction in which the front wheels of the tractor are turned.The steering means may comprise a control unit which is connected to the wheels of the support device and is connectable to the steerable front wheels of a tractor to which the support device is attached, the control unit being operable by a driver of the tractor to steer both the wheels of the tractor and the wheels of the support device.Alternatively the steering means may comprise a control unit connectable between the steerable wheels of the tractor and the steerable wheels of the support device so that when the steering wheel of the tractor is turned, the steerable wheels of the tractor and the wheels of the sunport device operate in synchronism.By way of example, specific embodiments of the invention will flow be described, with reference to the accopanying drawings, in which Figure 1 is a diagrammatic side view of one embodiment of tractor fitting according to the invention, attached to a conventional agricultural tractor, and carrying an accessory in the form of a pair of lifting arms Figure 2 is a plan view of the fitting shown in Figure 1, to a small scale and with the accessory removed Figure 3 is an exploded perspective view of the support device Figure 4 is a diagrammatic plan view showing that the steering movement of the wheels of the support device and the front wheels of the tractor to which it is fitted are synchronised Figure 5 is a plan view illustrating the steering means of the support device Figure 6 is a plan view of an alternative embodiment showing an alternative steering means Figure 7 is a side view of the support device carrying a different accessory andFigure 8 is an exploded perspective view of the support device carrying yet another accessory.The support device shown in Figures 1 to 3 comprises a support frame 10 which is generally rectangular with a horizontally extending cross member 11. At the base of the frame there is an axle 12 carrying at each end a wheel, only one wheel 13 being shown in Figure 3 for the sake of simplcity. The axle 12 is journalled in bearings in lugs 14 welded to the base of the frame 10. At the top and bottom of the frame 10 there is a horizontal lug 15 and each of these lugs is pivotally connected between a pair of lugs 16, the two pairs of lugs 16 being arranged one each at the top and bottom of a vertically extending generally triangular support plate 17.The frame 10 can thus pivot with respect to the support plate 17 about a vertical axis 18. A single acting hydraulic ram 19 is connected between a pair of lugs 20 on each side of the plate 17 and a lug 21 mounted on the cross member 11 of the frame 10. Pivotal movement of the frame 10 about a vertical axis can thus be controlled by these rams.The plate 17 is in turn pivotally mounted on a horizontal support plate 22, lugs 23 at the base of the support plate being pivotally connected between pairs of lugs 24 projecting upwardly from the plate 22. The plate 17 is thus free to rock with respect to plate 22 about a horizontal axis, taking the frame 10 with it, within limits defined by a pair, of inclined flanges 25 welded to the plate 22. There are two spaced apart lugs 26 projecting from the plate 22 and there is also a pair of lugs 27 projecting from the flanges 25. The two lugs 26 together with the pair of lugs 27 form a three point connection at the three corners of a triangle by means of which the support device can be connected to the conventional three point linkage at the rear of a tractor indicated generally in Figures 1 and 2 by the reference numeral 28. The support device, although connected to the tractor, bears its own weight on its wheels 13. In use the conventional tractor three point linkage is allowed to move freely so that the wheels 13 can move up and down freely with respect to the tractor, carrying the support dev ce with them, so that all six wheels can remain in contact with the ground, whatever the terrain.If the ground should be slightly higher at one side of the support device than at the other, this can be accommodated by rocking of the support plate 17 about the horizontal support plate 22.To make the support device, and hence any accessory mounted thereon, particularly manoeuvrable, the rams 19 which control the pivoting of the frame 10 about a vertical axis, and hence control the steering of the wheels 13, are arranged to operate in synchronism with the steering of the tractor.As shown in Figure 4, the arrangement is such that when the steerable front wheels 29 of the tractor pivot about a vertical axis in one direction, the wheels 13 pivot about the axis 18 in the opposite direction. Figure 4 shows a tractor arranged on its turning circle, with the support device following in synchronism. Figure 4 enables geometric calculations to be made for the purpose of designing the rams 19 so that they are in the correct position and have the correct properties for providing the necessary movement of the wheels 13 for a corresponding movement of the wheels 29.In the embodiment shown in Figure 5, a hydraulic control unit 30 is provided having four ports. A first port 31 is connected by hydraulic piping to one of the rams 19a of the support device. The other ram 19b of the support device is connected by hydraulic piping to one end of a double acting ram 37. The other end of the double acting ram 37 is connected by hydraulic piping to another port 36 of the valve 30. In use the double acting ram 37 is positioned to control the steering of the front wheels 29 of the tractor 28. The other two ports 32 and 34 of the valve 30 are connected by hydraulic piping respectively to the output 33 and input 35 of a hydraulic power unit of the tractor. The conventional steering of the tractor utilising the steering wheel is not used when the tractor is being manoeuvred with the support device fitted thereto.If it is desired to turn to the right, the valve 30 is moved by the driver of the tractor into a position in which port 32 communicates with port 31 and port 34 communicates with port 36. Thus hydraulic oil from the power unit of the tractor flows into ram 19a causing the wheels 13 to pivot about a vertical axis in an anti clockwise direction as viewed in Figure 5. The action of ram 19a causes ram 19b to retract, so hydraulic fluid is forced from ram 19b into ram 37 causing this ram to retract and turn the wheels 29 about a vertical axis in a clockwise direction. Hydraulic fluid which is forced out of the ram 37 passes through the valve 30 and back to the hydraulic power unit of the tractor.When it is desired to turn the tractor to the left, the valve 30 is moved into a second position in which port 36 is connected to port 32 and port 31 is connected to port 34. Hydraulic fluid is thus forced into ram 37, causing it to extend and turn the wheels 29 anti clockwise. Fluid from the other side of the piston of ram 37 is forced into ram 19b causing the wheels 13 to pivot clockwise. The ram 19a retracts and hydraulic fluid from this ram passes via the valve 30 back to the inlet 35 of the hydraulic power unit of the tractor.Figure 6 shows an alternative embodiment in which the steering of the wheels 13 is controlled by a valve 38 connected by hydraulic piping between the rams 19a and 19b and the output 39 and input 40 of a hydraulic power unit of the tractor 28. Steering of the front wheels 29 of the tractor is controlled in a conventional manner by operation of the steering wheel 41. However the valve 38 is coupled to the steering system of the tractor so that when the wheels 29 are turned clockwise as viewed in Figure 6 hydraulic fluid is able to flow from the outlet 39 to the ram 19a causing the wheels 13 to pivot anti clockwise. Fluid returns from ram 19b via the valve 38 to the input 40. When the tractor wheels 29 pivot in the opposite direction, the reverse occurs.Figure 1 shows an accessory in the form of a pair of lifting arms being attached to the frame 10. The accessory comprises a support framework 42 to which a boom is pivotally connected, the boom comprising a pair of spaced apart lifting arms 43. Lifting of the arms 43 is controlled by a pair of rams 44 connectable to a hydraulic power unit of the tractor. A lifting bucket 45 is pivotally mounted between the arms 43, the pivoting of the bucket being controlled by a pair of levers 46. Each lever is pivotally mounted at 47 on one of the arms 43. One end of each lever 46 is pivotally connected by a link 48 to the bucket 45 and the other end of each arm 43 is connected by a ram 49 to the support 42.The geometry of the accessory is such that if the length of the rams 49 is kept fixed, the orientation of the bucket 45 remains fixed as the arms 43 are raised and lowered. Thus material can be scooped up in the bucket 45, the bucket then being positioned with its mouth vertical.The arms 43 can be raised and the bucket 45 will remain with its mouth vertical. After the load has been removed to a point where the load is to be released, the rams 49 can be retracted and this will cause the bucket 45 to tip up and empty its load.The support 42 carrying the arms 43 is readily detachable from the frame 10 and can be replaced by other accessories.As indicated in Figure 7 for example, a vertical mast 50 can be attached to the frame 10, carrying a hydraulically operated forklift 51. As shown in Figure 8, a pair of pivotable links 52 may oe connected to the frame 10, together with a pair of lugs 53, the two links and the pair of lugs together forming a three point linkage which is similar to the conventional three point linkage on a tractor. Any of the agricultural implements which are normally fitted to the three point linkage of a tractor can be fitted to the three point linkage shown in Figure 8, with the advantage that the steerable frame 10 gives greater manoeuvreability and will support a greater weight than can be supported on the conventional three point linkage of a tractor. The links 52 may be provided with hydraulic controls operable from a hydraulic power unit of the tractor, in the same way that conventional tractor linkages are hydraulically operable.I have found that since support devices as shown in the accompanying Figures have their own support wheels, they can support greater loads than support devices mounted directly on a tractor, without the need to fit special counterweights to the tractor. Furthermore the fact that the steering of the support device can be synchronised with that of a tractor to which it is fitted makes the support device more manoeuvreable than if it was mounted directly on a tractor or was mounted on a non steerable trailer. Any accessory which is fitted to the frame 10 will of course make the same movements as the frame 10 when the frame 10 is steered. Since the support device can be connected to the conventional three point linkage of a tractor, no special fitting brackets are required. The invention is not restricted to the details of the foregoing embodiments. For instance the wheels 13 may be connected mechanically or hydraulically to a power unit of a tractor to which the support device is fitted, to provide power for driving the wheels 13. The invention may have useful industrial applications as well as agricultural applications, and the devices shown may be adapted for attachment to industrial tractors or other industrial vehicles.The fitting may be permanently connected to a tractor, so that the tractor takes the form, for example, of a six wheeled tractor, the steering of the rear wheels being synchronised with the steering of the front wheels, and the rear end of the tractor comprising an accessory carrying support device.