# New thiadiazol compounds and processes for their preparation.

## Abstract
Thiadiazol compounds of the formula

## Claims
1 e A thiadiazol compound of the formulaEMI41.1 wherein R1 is amino, lower alkalinoylamino, phosphonoarnino or lower alkylideneamino substituted with di lower alkylamino andR2 is lower alkyl, and its reactive derivative at the carboxy group and salt thereof. 2 . Syn isom.er of a compound of claim 1 . whereinEMI41.2 tb R1N SEP S SEP group SEP isRl4 N tb 3. A compound of claim 2 , wherein RÚ is amino. 4 A compound of claim 3, which is 2 ethoxyimino 2 5 amino 1,2,4 thiadiazol 3 yl acetic acid syn isomer . 5 . A process for preparing a,compound of the formula EMI41.3 2 wherein Rê is lower alkyl or a salt thereof, which comprises subjecting a compound of the formula EMI41.4 wherein R2 is as defined above and Ria is lower alkanoylamino, or a salt thereof, to elimination reaction of the protective e group of amino. 6. A process for preparing a compound or the formula EMI42.1 wherein R1 is amino, phosphonoamino, lower alkanoylamino or lower alkylideneamino substituted with di lower alkylamino and Rê is lower alkyl, or a salt thereof, which comprises subjecting a compound of the formula EMI42.2 wherein Rib is lower alkanoylamino, phosphonoamino or lower alkylideneamino substituted with di lower alkylamino and R7 is lower alkyl,, to hydrolysis and further reacting the resulting compound with a compound of the formula Rê ONH2 wherein R2 is as defined above or a salt thereof.

## Description
NEW THIADIAZOL COMPOUNDS AND PROCESSES FOR THEIRPREPARATIONThis invention relates to new thiadiazol compounds.More particularly it relates to new thiadiazol compound which are useful as intermediates for preparing new cephem compounds as claimed in application number 79 102 224.7 and herein after described. The present application is a divisional application from the above mentioned parent application.In this specification the final new cephem compounds are called object compounds and the new thiadiazol compounds are called starting compounds. Objects of the into of the pare application are to provide ne 7 substituted 3 cephem 4 carboxylic acid and pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, which exhibit excellent antimicrobial activities against a wide variety of pathogenic microorganisms including Gram negative andGram posItive bacteria, processes for preparation of the same, pharmaceutical composition comprising one of the same as an active ingredient, and a method of using the same prophylactically and therapeutically for treatment of infectious diseases caused by pathogenic microorganisins in human being and animals The object 7 substituted 3 cephem 4 carboxylic acid is novel and can be represented by the following general formula I .EMI2.1 wherein RÚ is amino or a protected amino, Rê is lower alkyl, R is hydrogen or lower alkyl, R4 is hydrogen, acyloxy lower alkyl, acylthio lower alkyl or a heterocycliocthio lower alkyl which may be substituted with suitable substituent s and R5 is carboxy or a protected carboxy. The present invention, the object 7 substituted 3 cephem 4 carboxylic acid I can be prepared by the following processes. Process l EMI3.1 or its reactive derivative or its reactive derivaat the amino group or a tive at the carboxy salt thereof group or a salt thereofEMI3.2 or a salt thereofProcess 2EMI3.3 EMI3.4 tb Elimination SEP of SEP the tb protective SEP group tb of SEP carboxy tb or a salt thereofEMI3.5 or a salt thereof process 3EMI4.1 Ic CIV or a salt thereof or its reactive derivative at the mercapto groupEMI4.2 or a salt thereofProcess 4EMI4.3 EMI4.4 tb Elimination SEP of SEP the tb protective SEP group SEP of tb amino tb or a salt thereofEMI4.5 or a salt thereof wherein R1, R2, R3, R4 and R5 are each as defined above R5a is a protected carboxy R4a is a group which can be substituted by a group R4b S wherein R4b is acyl or a heterocyclic group which may be substituted with suitable substituent s A is lower alkylene R4b is as defined above R4c is a heterocyclicthio lover alkyl substituted with protected amino lower alkyl or protected amino arA R4d is a heterocyclicthio lower alkyl substituted with amino lower alkyl or amino. Among the starting compounds of the present invention, the compound III is novel and can be prepared by theEMI5.1 tb following SEP preparations. tb SEP . SEP . SEP Int oductlon tb SEP 1 SEP halogenation SEP Introduction tb SEP N H SEP 11 SEP MSCN SEP SEP group SEP of SEP the SEP protective tb SEP H2N C C SEP vr SEP group SEP of SEP amino tb SEP S tb SEP V SEP I SEP vI SEP I SEP SEP 2 tb or a salt thereof EMI6.1 tb SEP R7 SC SEP tb SEP h SEP 7 tb SEP NCO0R6 SEP L SEP SR tb SEP 0Rla SEP Rla SEP N SEP 14 SEP COCH tb SEP 1 SEP , SEP sR7 tb SEP 3 SEP 3 tb SEP X tb SEP Acid SEP and or SEP 1 SEP la SEP N C0C0SR7 tb SEP acid SEP anhydride SEP R SEP a4Sss SEP Hydrolysis SEP tb SEP 4 SEP XI SEP 5 tb SEP Elimnalkon tb SEP R2 ONi SEP of SEP t he SEP protectizr2. tb SEP 2 SEP of SEP the SEP protective. tb SEP SIR SEP NC COOH SEP SEP groupgroup SEP of SEP amino tb SEP or SEP a SEP salt SEP thereof, SEP Rla4J5,N SEP fl SEP tb SEP SEP 6 SEP 2 SEP S SEP N SEP SEP 7 tb OR tb SEP 7 SEP R2 SEP IE 2 SEP I SEP I SEP I SEP a tb SEP XII tb SEP SEP 6 or SEP a SEP salt. SEP thereof tb SEP N SEP C COOH tb SEP KZN SEP N tb SEP S SEP N tb SEP OR2 tb SEP lib tb wherein Rê is as defined above, R6 is a protective group of carboxy, M is an alkali metal, Rla is a protected amino and R7 is lower alkyl. In the object compound I and the stirring compound III , the partial structure represented by the formula EMI7.1 is to be understood to include both of the geometrical structures represented by the formulae EMI7.2 In this specification, with regard to all the compounds having the above mentioned partial structure, the corn pounds having the geometrical structure shown by the formula A are referred to as tlsyn isomer1 and the compounds having the alternative one shown by the formula At as anti isomer Regarding the object compound of the formula I and the starting compound of the formula III as mentioned above, it is also to be understood that said object and starting compounds may include tautomeric isomers relating to their thiadiazolyl group.That is, in case that the group represented by the formula EMI7.3 wherein RÚ is amino or a protected amino in formula of said object and starting compounds take theEMI7.4 tb formula SEP B tb SEP B tb SEP R SEP S tb wherein RÚ is as defined above said group of the formula EMI7.5 may be also alternatively represented by its tautomeric formula EMI8.1 wherein RÚ is imino or a protected imino . That is, both of the said group B and may be in the state of equilibrium as so called tautomeric forms which can be represented by the following equilibrium EMI8.2 wherein R1 and RÚ are each as defined above . In the present specification including claims and examples, the object and starting compounds. having said group are represented by using one of the expressions therefor, namely the formula EMI8.3 only for the convenient sake. Suitable pharmaceutically acceptable salts of the object compound I are conventional non toxic salts and may include aninorganic salt, for example, a metal salt such as an alkali metal salt e.g., sodium salt, potassium salt, etc. and an alkaline earth metal salt e.g., calcium salt, maanesium salt, etc. , ammonium salt etc. an organic salt, for example, an organic amine salt e.g., trimethylamine salt, triethylamine salt, pyridine salt, procaine salt, picoline salt, dicyclohexylamine salt, N,N dibenzylethylene diamine salt, N methylglucamine salt, diethanolamine salt, triethanolamine salt, tris hydroxymethylamino methane salt, phenylethylbenzylamine salt, dibenzylethylenediamine salt, etc. etc. an organic carboxylic or sulfonic acid salt e.g., acetate, maleate, tartrate, methanesulfonate, benzene sulfonate, toluenesulfonate, etc. an inorganic acid salt e.g,, hydrochloride, hydrobromide, sulfate, phosphate, etc. a salt with a basic or acidic amino acid e.g., arginine, aspartic acid, glutamic acid, lysine, etc. and the like. In the above and subsequent descriptions of the present specification, suitable examples and illustration of the various definitions which the present invention intends to include within the scope thereof are explained in detail as follows. The term lower is used to intend a group having 1 to 6 carbon atom s , unless otherwise provided. Suitable protected amino may include an acylamillo and amino group substituted by a conventional proptective group other than the acyl group, such as ar lower alkyl e.g., benzyl, trityl, etc. ar lower alkylidene e.g., benzylidene, etc. , lower alkylidene substituted with lower alkoxycarbonyl or di lowe.r alkylamino e.g., 1 ethoxycarbonyl 2 pyrolidene, dimethylaminomethylene, etc. , phosphono or the like Suitable protected imino may include an acylimino and imino group substituted by a conventional protective group other than the acyl group such as aforesaid ar lower alkyl or the like. Suitable acyl and acyl moiety in the terms acylamino , acylimino , acyloxy lower alkyl11 and acylthio 1 ower alkyl may include carbamoyl, aliphatic acyl group and acyl group containing an aromatic or heterocyclic ring. And, suitable examples of the said acyl may be lower alkanoyl e.g., formyl, acetyl, propionyl, butyryl, isobutyryl, valeryl, isovaleryl, oxalyl, succinyl, pivaloyl, etc. , preferably one having 1 to 4 carbon atom s , more preferably one having 1 to 2 carbon atom s lower alkoxycarbonyl having 2 to 7 carbon atoms e.g., methoxycarbonyl, ethoxycarbonyl, propoxycarbonyl, 1 cyclopropylethoxycarbonyl, isopropoxycarbonyl, butoxy carbonyl, t butoxycarbonyl, pentyloxycarbonyl, t pentyloxycarbonyl, hexyloxycarbonyl, etc. , preferably one having 3 to 6 carbon atoms lower alkanesulfonyl e.g., mesyl, ethanesulfonyl, propansulfonyl, isopropanesulfonyl, butanesulfonyl, etc. arenesulfonyl e.g., benzenesulfonyl, tosyl, etc. aroyl e.g., benzoyl, toluoyl, naphthoyl, phthaloyl, indancarbonyl, etc. ar lower alkanoyl e.g., phenylacetyl, phenylpropionyl, etc. ar lower alkoxycarbonyl e.g. benzyloxycarbonyl, phenethyloxycarbonyl, etc. and the like. The acyl and acyl moiety as stated above may have 1 to 3 suitable substituent s such as halogen e.g., chlorine, bromine, iodine or fluorine , hydroxy, cyano, nitro, lower alkoxy e.g., methoxy, ethoxy, propoxy, isopropoxy, etc. , lower alkyl e.g., methyl, ethyl, propyl, isopropyl, butyl, etc. , lower alkenyl e.g., vinyl, allyl, etc. , aryl e.g., phenyl, tolyl, etc. , or the like. Suitable lower alkyl and lower alkyl moiety in the terms acyloxy lower alkyl , acylthio lower alkyl and heterocyclocthio lower alkyl may include one having 1 to 6 carbon atom s , such as methyl, ethyl, propyl, isopropyl, butyl, isobutyl, tert butyl, pentyl, tert pentyl, hexyl or the like,preferably one having 1 to 3 carbon atom s . Suitable protected carboxy may include esterified carboxy in which said ester may be the ones such as lower alkyl ester e.g., methyl ester, ethyl ester, propyl ester, isopropyl ester, butyl ester, isobutyl ester, butyl ester, pentyl ester, t pentyl ester, hexyl ester, l cyclopropylethyl ester, etc. , wherein lower alkyl moiety may be preferably one having 1 to 4 carbon atom s lower alkenyl ester e.g., vinyl ester, allyl ester, etc. lower alkynyl ester e.g., ethynyl ester,propynyl ester, etc. mono or di or tri halo lower alkyl ester e.g., 2 iodoethyl ester, 2,2,2trichloroethyl ester, etc. lower alkanoyloxy loaler alkyl ester e.g., acetoxymethyl ester, propionyloxymethyl ester, butyryloxymethyl ester, valeryloxymethyl ester, pivaloyloxymethyl ester, hexanoyloxymethyl ester, 2 acetoxyethyl ester, 2 proplonyloxyethyl ester, etc. lower alkanesulfonyl lower alkyl ester e.g. , mesyl methyl ester, 2 mesylethyl ester etc. ar lower alkyl ester, for example, phenyl lower alkyl ester which may be substituted with one or more suitable substituent s e.g., benzyl ester, 4 methoxybenzyl ester, 4 nitrobenzyl ester, phenethyl aster, trityl ester, diphenylmethyl ester, bis methoxyphenyl methyl ester, 3,4 dimethoxybenzyl ester, 4 hydroxy 3,5 diterti arybutylbenwyl ester, etc. aryl ester which may have one or more suitable substi tuent s e.g., phenyl ester, tolyl ester, tertiarybutylphenyl ester, xylyl ester, mesityl ester, cumenyl ester, etc. , and the like.Preferable example of protected carboxy may be lower alkoxycarbonyl e.g., methoxycarbonyl, ethoxycarbonyl, propoxycarbonyl, butoxycarbonyl, t butoxycarbonyl, t pentyloxycarbonyl, hexyloxycarbonyl, etc. having 2 to 7 carbon atoms, preferably one having 2 to 5 carbon atoms and phenyl lower alkoxycarbonyl which nay be substituted with nitro e.g., 4 nitrobenzyloxycarbonyl, benzyloxycarbonyl, 4 nitrophenethyloxycarbonyl, etc. Suitable heterocyclic group and heterocyclic moiety in the term a heterocycllcthio lowerdalkyl means saturated or unsaturated, monocyclic or polycyclic heterocyclic group containing at least one hetero atom such as an oxygen, sulfur, nitrogen atom and the like.And, especially preferably heterocyclic group may be heterocyclic group such as unsaturated 3 to 8 membered heteromonocyclic group containing 1 to 4 nitrogen atom s , for example, pyrrolyl, pyrrolinyl, imidazolyl, pyrazolyl, pyridyl, and itsN oxide, pyrimidyl, pyrazinyl, pyridazinyl, triazolyl e.g., 4H 1,2,4 triazolyl, 1H 1,2,3 triazolyl, 2H 1,2,3triazolyl, etc. , tetrazolyl e.g., 1H tetrazolyl, 2Htetrazolyl, etc. , etc. saturated 3 to 8 membered heteromonocyclic group containing 1 to 4 nitrogen atom s , for example, pyrrolidinyl, imidazolidinyl, piperidino, piperazinyl, etc. unsaturated condensed heterocyclic group containing 1 to 5 nitrogen atom s , for exanple, indolyl, isoindolyl, indolizynyl, benzimidazolyl, quinolyl, isoquinolyl, imidazolyl, benzotriazolyl, tetrazolopyridyl, tetrazolopyridazinyl, dihydrotriazolopyridazinyl, etc. unsaturated 3 to 8 membered heteromonocyclic group containing 1 to 2 oxygen atom s and 1 to 3 nitrogen atom s , for example, oxazolyl, isoxazolyl, oxadiazolyl, e.g., 1,2,4 oxadiazolyl, 1,3,4 oxadiazolyl, 1,2,5 oxadiazolyl, etc. etc. saturated 3 to 8 membered heteromonocyclic groug containing 1 to 2 oxygen atomCs and l to 3 nitrogen atom s , for example, morpholinyl, etc. unsaturated condensed hetrocyclic group containing 1 to 2 oxygen atom s and 1 to 3 nitrogen atom s , for example, benzoxazolyl, benzoxadiazolyl, etc. unsaturated 3 to 8 membered heteromonocyclic group containing 1 to 2 sulfur atom s and 1 to 3 nitrogen atom s , for example, thiazolyl, thiazolinyl, thiadiazolyl e.g., 1,2,4 thiadiazolyl, 1,3,4 thiadiazolyl, 1,2,5 thiadiazolyl, etc. , etc. saturated 3 to 8 membered heteromonocyclic group containing 1 to 2 sulfur atoms and 1 to 3 nitrogen atom s , for example, thiazolidinyl, etc. unsaturated 3 to 8 membered heteromonocyclic group containing a sulfur atom, for example, thienyl, etc. unsaturated condensed heterocyclic group containing I to 2 sulfur atom s and 1 to 3 nitrogen atom s , for example, benzothiazolyl, benzothiadiazolyl, etc. and the like wherein said heterocyclic group may be substituted with one or two suitable substituent s such as lower alkyl e.g., methyl, ethyl, propyl, isopropyl, butyl, iso butyl, pentyl, hexyl, etc. , preferably one having 1 to 3 carbon atom s lower a.lkylthio e.g., methylthio, ethylthio, pro pylthio, etc. lower alkenyl e.g., vinyl, allyl, butenyl, etc. , preferably one having 2 to 3 carbon atom5 lower alkenylthio e.g., vinylthio, allylthio, butenylthio, etc. , preferably one having 2 to 3 carbon atoms aryl e.g., phenyl, tolyl, etc. halogen e.g., chlorine, bromine, iodine or fluorine amino di lower alkylamino lower alkyl e.g., dimethylaminomethyl, dimethylaminoethyl, dimethylaminopropyl, diethyl aminopropyl, diethylaminobutyl, etc. carboxy lower alkyl e.g., carboxymethyl, carboxyethyl, carboxypropyl, etc. , preferably one having 2 to 4 carbon atoms esterified carboxy lower alkyl wherein the esterified carboxy moiety is exemplified above amino lower alkyl e.g., aminomethyl, aminoethyl, aminopropyl,1 aminomethyl, aminobutyl, etc. , preferably one having 1 to 3 carbon atom s protected amino lower alkyl wherein the protected amino and lower alkyl moieties are each as exemplified above, preferably lower alkoxycarbonylamino lower alkyl e.g., methoxycarbonylaminomethyl, ethoxycarbonyl aminomethyl, t butoxycarbonylaminomethyl, t butoxy carbonylaminethyl, t butoxycarbonylaminopropyl, 1 t butoxycarbonylaminomethylethyl, etc. , more preferably one having 3 to 9 carbon atoms, or lower alkanoylamino lower alkyl e.g., acetyl aminomethyl, acetylaminoethyl, acetylaminopropyl, 1acetylaminomethylethyl, etc. , more preferably one having 2 to 5 carbon atoms carboxy esterified carboxy as exemplified above, preferably lower alkoxycarbonyl., more preferably one having 2 t, o 3 carbon atoms lower alkoxy lower alkyl e.g., methoxymethyl, methoxyethyl, methoxypropyl, ethoxymethyl, ethoxyethyl, etc.3, preferably one having 2 to 5 carbon atoms hydroxy lower alkyl e.g., hydroxymethyl, hydroxyethyl, hydroxypropyl, hydroxybutyl, etc. , preferably one having I to 9 carbon atom s lower alkylthio lower allkyl e.g., methylthiomethyl, methylthioethyl, methylthiopropyl, ethylthiomethyl, etc. , preferably one having 2 to 3 carbon atoms sulfo lower alkyl e.g., sulfomethyl, sulfoethyl, sulfopropyl, sulfobutyl, etc. , prefarably one having 1 to 2 carbon atom s acyl lower alkyl wfrerebi the acyl and lower alkyl moieties are each as exemplified above, preferably lower alkanesulfonyl lower alkyl e.g., mesylmethyl, mesylethyl, ethanesulfonylmethyl, etc. more preferably one having 2 to 3 carbon atoms acylamino lower alkyl wherein the acyl and lower alkyl moieties are each as exemplified above, preferably lower alkanesulfonyl amino lower alkyl e.g., mesylaininomethyl, mesyl aminoethyl, mesylaminopropyl, ethanesulfonylamino methyl, etc. , more. preferably one having 2 to 3 carbon atoms carboxy lower alkylthio e.g., carboxymethylthio, carboxyethylthio, etc. , preferably one having 2 to 3 carbon atoms oxo halo lower alkyl e.g., chloromethyl, chloroethyl, dichloroethyl, trichloroethyl, trifluoromethyl, trichloromethyl, trifluoroethyl, etc. , preferably trihalo lower alkyl, more preferably one having 1 to 2 carbon atom s lower alkylamino e.g., methylamino, ethylamino, propylamino, isopropylamino, etc. , preferably one having 1 to 2 carbon atom s protected amino as exemplified above or the like. Suitable lower alkylene may include straight or branched bivalent aliphatic hydrocarbon residue having I to 6 carbon atom s , such as methylene, ethylene, methylethylene, propylene, trimethylene, 2 methyltrimethylene or the like, and preferably one having 1 to 4 carbon atom s , more preferably one having 1 to 2 carbon atom s and the most preferably one having 1 carbon atom. Suitable protected amino lowjr alkyl, protected amino and amino lower alkyl being the substituent of a heterocyclic thio lower alkyl for R4c and R4d can be each referred to the ones as exemplified above. Suitable protective group of carboxy may be referred to the ones exemplified as aforementioned ester moiety in the esterified carboxy group. Preferable example of protective group of carboxy may be lower alkyl as mentioned above. Suitable alkali metal may include sodium, potassium, lithimn, etc. Preferred embodiments of the object compound I are as follows.Preferred embodiment of R1 is amino, acylamino more preferably lower alkanoylamino y di lower alkylamino lower alkylideneamino or phosphonamino Rê is lower alkyl R3 is hydrogen or lower alkyl R4 is hydrogen acyloxy lower alkyl more preferably lower alkanoyloxy lower alkyl or carbamoyloxy lower alkyl, most preferably lower alkanoyloxymethyl or carbamoyloxymethyl acylthio lower alkyl more preferably lower alkanoylthio lower alkyl, most preferably lower alkanoylthiomethyl tetrazolylthio lower alkyl more preferably tetrazolylthiomethyl substituted with lower alkyl, lower alkenyl, lower alkoxy lower alkyl, lower alkylthio lower alkyl, hydroxy lower alkyl, amino lower alkyl, lower alkoxy carbonylamino lower alkyl, lower alkanoylamino lower alkyl, di lower alkylamino lower alkyl, sulfo lower alkyl or carboxy lower alkyl thiadiazolylthio lower aikyl more preferably thiadiaQolylthiomethyl which may be substituted with lower alkyl, lower alkoxy lower alkyl, lower alkylthio lower alkyl, lower alkenylthio, carboxy, lower alkoxy carbonyl, hydroxyClowerDalkyl, amino lower alkyl, lower alkoxycarbonylamino lower alkyl, amino, lower alkyl . amino, halo lower alkyl, carboxy lower alkylthio lower alkanesulfonyl lower alkyl, lower alkanesulfonyl amino lower alkyl or carboxyClower alkylthio triazolylthio lower alkyl more preferably triazolyl thiomethyl substituted with lower alkyl, lower alkenyl or lower alkoxy lowar alkyl pyrazinylthio lower alkyl more preferably pyrazinylthiomethyl thiazolinylthio lower alkyl more preferably thiazolinylthiomethyl tetrazolopyradazinylthio lower alkyl more preferably tetrazolopyridazinyl thiomethyl or dihydrotriazolopyridazinylthio lower alkyl m more preferably dihydrotriazolopyridazinylthio methyl substituted with oxo and carboxy lower alkyl and R5 is carboxy or phenyl l6wer alkoxycarbonyl substituted with nitro. The processes for preparing the object compounds are explained in details in the following.Process 1 The object compound I can be prepared by reacting the compound II or its reactive derivative at the amino group or a salt thereof with the compound III or its reactive derivative at the carboxy group or a salt thereof. Suitable reactive derivative at the amino group of the compound II may include conventional reactive derivative used in amidation, for example, Schiff s base type amino or its tautomeric eanime type isomer formed by the reaction of the compound II with a carbonyl compound a silyl derivative formed by the reaction of the compound 11 with a silyl compound such as bis trimethylsilyl acetamide, trimethylsilyl acetamide or the like a derivative formed by reaction of the compound II with phosphorus trichloride or phosgene, and the like. Suitable salt of the compound II may include an acid addition salt such as an organic acid salt e.g., acetate, male ate, tartrate, benzenesulfonate, toluenesulfonate, etc. or an inorganic acid salt e,g., hydrochloride, hydrobromide, sulfate, phosphate, etc. a metal salt e.g., sodium salt, potassium salt, calcium salt, magnesium salt, etc. ammonium salt an organic amine salt e.g., triethylamine salt, dicyclohexylamine salt, etc. , and the like. Suitable reactive derivative at the carboxy group of the compound III may include an acid halide, an acid anhydride, an activated amide, an activated ester, and the like. The suitable example may be an acid chloride an acid azide a mixed acid anhydride with an acid such as substituted phosphoric acid e.g., dialkylphosphoric acid, phenylphosphoric acid, diphenylphosphoric acid, dibenzylphosphoric acid, halogenated phosphoric acid, etc. , dialkylphosphorous acid, sulfurous acid, thiosulfuric acid, sulfuric acid, alkylcarbonic acid, aliphatic carboxylic acid e.g.,. pivalic acid, pentanoic acid, isopentanoic acid, 2 ethylbutyric acid, acetic acid or trichloro acetic acid, etc. or aromatic carboxylic acid e.g., benzoic acid, etc. a symmetrical acid anhydride an activated amide with imidazole, dimethylpyrazole, triazole or tetrazole or an activated ester e.g., cyanomethyl ester, methoxymethyl ester, dimethyliminomethyl tCH3 2N Cli ester, vinyl ester, propargyl ester, p nitrophenyl ester, 2,4 dinitrophenyl ester, trichloro phenyl ester, pentachlorophenyl ester, mesyl phenyl ester, phenylazophenyl ester, phenyl thioester, pnitrophenyl thioester, p cresyl thioester, carboxy methyl thioester, pyranyl ester, pyridyl ester, piperidyl ester, 8 quinolyl thioester, or an ester with N,Ndimethylhydroxylamine, 1 hydroxy 2 1H pyridone, N hydroxysuccinimide, .N hydroxyphthalimide or 1 hydroxy 6 chloro 1H benzotriazole, and the like. These reactive derivatives can be optionally selected from them according to the kind of the compound III to be used. The salts of the compound III may be salts with an inorganic base such as an alkali metal salts e.g., sodium or potassium salt , or an alkaline earth metal salt e.g., calcium or magnesium salt , a salt with an organic base such as trimethylamine, triethyl amine, pyridine, a salt with an acid e.g., hydrochloric acid or hydrobromic acid or the like. The reaction is usually carried out in a con ventional solvent such as water, acetone, dioxane acetonitrile, chloroform, methylene chloride, ethylene chloride, tetrahydrofuran, ethyl acetate, N, N dimethyl formamide, pyridine or any other organic solvent which does not adversely influence to the reaction. Among these solvents, hydrophilic solvents may be used in a mixture with water. IYhen the compound I II is used in free acid form or its salt form in the reaction, the reaction is preferably carried out in the presence of a conventional condensing agent such as N,N dicyclohexylcarbodiimide N cyclohexyl N morpholinoethylcarbodiimide N cyclohexyl N 4 diethylaminocyclohexyl carbodiimide N,N diethylcarbodiimide N,N diisopropylcarbodiimide N ethyl N 3 dimethylaminopropyl carbodiimide N,N carbonylbis 2 methylimidazole pentamethylene ketene N cyclohexylimine diphenylketene N cyclohexylimine ethoxyacetylene ethyl polyphosphate isopropyl polyphosphate diethyl phosphorochloridite phosphorus oxychloride phosphorus. trichloride phosphorus pentachloride thionyl chloride oxalyl chloride triphenylphosphine N ethyl 7 hydroxybenzisoxazolium fluoroborate N ethyl 5 phenylisoxazolium 3 sulfonate 1 p chlorobenzenesulfonyloxy 6 chloro 1H benzotriazole so called Vilsmeier reagent, for example chloromethylene dimethylammonium chloride produced by the reaction of dimethylformamide with thionyl chloride or phosgene, a compound produced by the reaction of dimethylformamide with phosphorus oxychloride, etc. or the like. The reaction may be also carried out in the presence o an inorganic or an organic base such as an alkali metal hydroxide, 2n alkali metal bicarbonate, alkali metal carbonate, alkali metal acetate, tri lower alkylamine, pyridine, N lower alkylmorpholine, N,N di lower alkylbenzylamine, N,N di lower alkylaniline as exemplified below, or the like. When the base or the condensing agent is in liquid, it can be used also as a solvent. The reaction temperature is not critical, and the reaction is usually carried out under cooling or at ambient temperature. In the present reaction, a syn isomer of the object compound I can be obtained preferably by con ducting the reaction of the compound II with a syn isomer of the start compound III . In the present reaction, amino group for R1 in the compound III may be converted into a protected amino group to give the compound I wherein RÚ is a protected amino n the course of the reaction according to reaction . conditions, and this case is also. included within the scope of the present reaction. Process 2 The object compound Ib or a salt thereof can be prepared by subjecting the compound Ia or a salt thereof to elimination reaction of the protective group of carboxy. Suitable salt of the compound Ia can be preferred to the acid addition salt exemplified fo the compound II . The present reaction is carried out in accordance with a conventional ethod such as hydrolysis, reduction or the like, In case that the protective group is an ester, the protective group can be eliminated by hydrolysis.Hydrolysis is preferably carried out in the presence of a base or an acid. Suitable base may include an inorganic base and an organic base such as an alkali metal e.g., sodium, potassium, etc. , an alkaline earth metal e.g., magnesium, calcium, etc. , the hydroxide or carbonate or bicarbonate thereof, trialkylamine e.g., trimethylamine, triethylamine, etc. , picoline, 1,5 diazabicyclo 4,3,0 none 5 ene, 1,4 diazabicyclo 2, 2,2 octane, 1,8 diazabicyclo 5,4,0 undecane 7, or the like. Suitable acid may include an organic acid e.g., formic acid, acetic acid, propionic acid, trifluoroacetic acid, etc. and an inorganic acid e.g., hydro chloric acid, hydrobromic acid, sulfuric acid, etc. . The reaction is usually carried out in a solvent such as water, an alcohol e.g., methanol, ethanol, etc. , a mixture thereof or any other solvent which does not adversely influence to the reaction. A liquid base or acid can be also used as the solvent. The reaction temperature is not critical and the reaction is usually carried out under cooling to warming. Reduction can be applied preferably for elimination of the protective group such as 4 nitrobenzyl, 2 iodoethyl, 2,2,2 trichloroethyl, or the like. The reduction method applicable for the elimination reaction may include, for example, reduction by using a combination of a metal e.g., zine zinc amalgam, etc. or a salt of chrome compound e.g., chromous chloride, chromous acetate, etc. and an organic or inorganic acid e.g., acetic acid, propionic acid, hydrochloric acid, etc. and conventional catalytic reduction in the presence of a conventional metallic catalyst e.g., palladium carbon, etc. . Process 3 The object compound Id or a salt thereof can be prepared by reacting the compound Ic or a salt thereof with the compound IV or its reactive derivative at the mercapto group. Suitable salt of the compound Ic can be referred to the ones exemplified for the compound II . Suitable reactive derivative ae the mercapto group of the compound CIV may include a metal salt such as an alkali metal salt e.g., sodium salt, potassium salt, etc. or the like. The present reaction may be carried out in a solvent such as water, phosphate buffer, acetone, chloroform, nitrobenzene, , methylene chloride, ethylene chloride, dimethylformamide, methanol, ethanol, ether, tetrU.iydro furan, dimethylsulfoxide, or any other organic solvent which does not adversely affect the reaction, preferably in ones having strong polarities. Among the solvents, hydrophilic solvents may be used in a mixture with water.The reaction is preferably carried out in around neutral medium. lYhen the compound Ic or the compound IV is used in a free form, the reaction is preferably conducted in the presence of a base, for example, inorganic base such as alkali metal hydroxide, alkali metal carbonate, alkali metal bicarbonate, organic base such as trialkylamine, and the like. The reaction temperature is not critical, and the reaction is usually carried out at ambient temperature, under warming or under slightly heating. Process 4 The object compound If or a salt thereof can be prepared by subjecting the compound Ie or a salt thereof to elimination reaction of the protective group of amino. Suitable salt of the compound Ie may include a metal salt, ammonium salt, an organic amine salt and the like as aforementioned. The present elimination reaction is carried out in accordance with a conventional method such as hydrolysis reduction a method by reacting the compound lie wherein the pretective group is acyl group with iminohalogenating agent and then with iminoetherifying agent, and, if necessary, subjecting the resulting compound to hydrolysis or the like. The hydrolysis may include a method using an acid or base or hydrazine and the like.These methods may be selected depending on the kind of the protective groups to be eliminated. Among these methods, hydrolysis using an acid is one of the common and preferable method for eliminating the protective group such as substituted or unsubstituted alkoxycarbonyl e.g., t pentyloxycarb onyl, t butoxy carbonyl, etc, alkanoyl e.g., formyl, etc. , cycloalkoxycarbonyl, substituted or unsubstituted aralkoxycarboxyl e.g., bcnzyl oxcarb onyl, substituted benzoyloxycarbonyl, etc. , substituted phenylthio, substituted aralkylidene, substituted alkylidene, substituted cycloalkylidene, ar lower alkyl e.g., benzyl, trityl, eto. or the like. Suitable acid may include an organic or an inorganic acid, for example, formic acid, trifluoro acetic acid, benzenesulfonic acid, p toluenesulfonlc acid, hydrochloric acid and the like, and preferable acid is,for example, formic acid, trifluoroacetic acid, hydrochloric acid, etc. The acid suitable for the reaction can be selected according to the kind of protective group to be eliminated. When the elimination reaction is conducted with the acid, it can be carried out in the presence or absence of a solvent. Suitable solvent may include a conventional organic solvent, water or a mixture thereof. then trifluoroacetic acid is used, the elimination reaction may preferably be carried out in the presence of anisole. The hydrolysis using hydrazine is commonly applied for eliminating the protective group, for example, succinyl or phthaloyl. The hydrolysis with a base is preferably applied for eliminating acyl group, for example, haloalkanoyl e.g., dichloroacetyl, trifluoroacetyl, etc. etc.Suitable base may include, for example, an inorganic base such as alkali metal hydroxide e.g., sodium hydroxide, potassium hydroxide, etc. , alkaline earth metal hydroxide e,g., magnesium hydroxide, calcium hydroxide, etc. , alkali metal carbonate e.g., sodium carbonate, potassium carbonate, etc. , alkaline earth metal carbonate e.g., magnesium carbonate calcium carbonate, etc. , alkali metal bicarbonate e.g., , sodium bicarbonate, potassium bicarbonate, etc.. , alkali metal acetate e.g., sodium acetate, Potassium acetate, etc. , alkaline earth metal phosphate e.g., magnesium phosphate, calcium phosphate, etc. , alkali metal hydrogen phosphate e.g., sodium hydrogen phosphate, dipotassium hydrogen phosphate, etc. , or the like, and an organic base such as trialkylamine e.g., trimethylamine, triethylamine, etc. , picoline , N methylpyrrolidine, N methylmorpholine, 1,5 diazabicyclo 4,3,0 none 5 ene, 1 4 diazabicyclo 2,2,2 octane, 1,5 diazabicyclo 5,4,0 undecene 5 or the like. The hydrolysis using a base is often carried out in water, a conventional organic solvent or a mixture thereof. Among the protective group, the acyl group can be generally eliminated by hydrolysis as mentioned above or by the other conventional hydrolysis. In case that the acyl group is halogen substituted alkoxycarbonyl or 8 quinolyloxycarbonyl, they are eliminated by treating with a heavy metal such as copper, zinc or the like. The reductive elimination is generally applied for eliminating the protective group, for example, hetroalkoxycarbonyl e.g., trichloroethoxycarbonyl etc. , substituted or unsubstituted aralkoxycarbonyl e.g.benzyloxycarbonyl, substituted benzyloxycarbonyl etc. , 2 pyridylmethoxycarbonyl, etc. Suitable reduction may include, for example, reduction with an alkali metal borohydride e.g., sodium borohydride, etc. and the like. The reaction temperature is not critical and may be suitably selected in accordance with the kind of the protective group of the amino group and the elimination method as mentioned above, and the present reaction. is preferably carried out under a mild condition such as under cooling, ae ambient temperature or slightly elevated temperature. The present reaction includes within its scope, the cases tht the protected carboxy group forR5 is transformed into the free carboxy group in the course of the elimination reaction as mentioned above or in the post treatment of the reaction mixture or reaction product. The preparation for preparing the starting compound III are explained below in detail. Preparation I The compound VII can be prepared by reacting the compound V or a salt thereof with halogenating agent and the compound VI . Suitable halogenating agent to be used in the present reaction may include bromine, chlorine and the like. The present reaction is preferably carried out in the presence of a base such as an inorganic base or an organic base, for example, alkali metal carbonate, alkali metal alkoxide, trialkylamine or the like. The present reaction is usually carried out in a solvent such as an alcohol e.g., methanol, ethanol, etc. or ally other solvent which does not adversely affect the reaction. The reaction temperature is not critical and the reaction is usually carried out under cooling or at ambient temperature .In this reaction, R6 of the compound V may be converted into other protective group of carboxy according to reaction conditions and kinds of the protective group and it is included within the scope of the present reaction,Preparation 2 The compound VII I can be prepared by subjecting the compound VII to introduction reaction of the protective group of amino. The present process can be carried out in a conventional manner and when the protective group of amino to be introduced into the amino group is acyl, the reaction can be carried out in substantially the same manner as that of Process 1. Accordingly, the detailed explanation therefor is to be referred to said Process 1.Preparation 3 The compound X can be prepared by reacting the compound VIII with the compound IX . This process is usually carried out in the presence of base such as an alkali metal hydride e.g., sodium hydride, potassium hydride, etc. , an alkaline eart metal hydride e.g., calcium hydride, etc. and the like, and usually carried out in a solvent such as dimethylformamide or any other solvent which does not adversely affect the reaction. The reaction temperature is not critical and the reaction is usually carried out under cooling, at ambient temperature or under warming.Preparation 4 The compound XI can be prepared by reacting the compound X with an acid and or acid anhydride such as acetic acid and or acetic anhydride. The reaction of this process can preferably be carried out in the presence of alkali metal perhaloate e.g., sodium perchlorate, sodium periodate, potassium perchlorate, etc. , alkaline earth metal perchlorate e.g., magnesium perchlorate, calcium perchlorate, etc. and the like, and an acid such as an organic acid e.g., formic acid, acetic acid etc. or an inorganic acid e.g., hydrochloric acid . The reaction temperatur is not critical and the reaction is usually carried out under warming. Preparations 5 and 7 The preparation 5 and 7 can be carried out in a conventional manner as shown in Process 2 or 4 In the preparation 5 , according to reaction conditions, there may be obtained the product having Rla or the product having amino group instead of Rla, and they are subsequently reacted with the compound XII or a salt thereof to give the compound IIIa or IIIb , respectively, as show in Preparation 6 .Preparation 6 Suitable salt of the compound XII is a conventional acid salt such as an inorganic acid salt e.g., hydrochloride, etc. and an organic acid salt e.g., p toluenesulfonic acid salt, etc. . then salt of said compound XIII is used in is process, the reaction is usually carried out in the presence of a base such zs an alkali metal hydroxide e.g., sodium hydroxide, potassium hydroxide, etc. .The reaction is usually carried out in a solvent such as water, an alcohol e.g., methanol, ethanol, etc. or any other solvent which does not adversely affect the reaction.The reaction temperature is not critical and the reaction is usually carried out at ambient temperature. In the aforementioned reactions and or in the post treatment of the reactions of the present invention, the aforementioned tautomeric isomers may occasionally be transformed into the o other tautomeric isomers and such case is also included in the scope of the present invention. In case that the object compound I is obtained in a for of the free acid at 4 position and or in case that the object compound I has free amino group, it may be optionally transformed into its pharmaceutical ly acceptable salt as aforementioned by a conventional method. The object compound. I and pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof of the present invention are all novel compounds which exhibit high antibacterial activity, inhibiting the growth of a wide variety of pathogenic microorganisms including Gram positive and Gram negative bacteria and are useful as antibacterial agents. Now, in order to show the utility of the object compound I , with regard to some representative compounds of this invention, the st data on the in vitro anti bacterial activity are shown in the following. Test Compounds 1 7 2 Methoxyimino 2 5 amino 1,2,4 thiadiazol 3 yl acetamido 3 1 methyl 1H tetrazol 5 ylthio methyl s cephem 4 carDoxylic acid syn isomer 2 7 2 Methoxyimino 2 5 amino 1,2,4 thiadiazol 3 yl acetamido 1,3,4 hiadiazol 2 lth 2 3 cephem 4 carbo.xylic acid syn isomer 3 7 2 Methoxyimino 2 5 amino 1,2,4 thiadiazol 3 yl acetamido 3 1 2 aminoethyl 1H tetrazol 5 yl thiomethyl 3 cephem 4 carboxylic acid syn isomer 4 7 2 Ethoxyimino 2 5 amino 1,2,4 thiadiazol 3 yl acetamido 3 1,3,4 thiadiazol 2 yl thiomethyl 3 cephem 4 carboxylic acid syn isomer 5 7 2 Methoxyimino 2 5 amino 1,2,4 thiadiazol 3 yl acetamido 3 1 2 hydroxyethyl 1H tetrazol 5 yl thiomethyl 3 cephem 4 carboxylic acid syn isomer 6 7 2 Methoxyimino 2 5 amino 1,2,4 thiadiazol 3 yl acetamido 3 tetrazolo 1,5 b pyridazin 6 yl thiomethyl cephem 4 carboxylic acid syn isomer 7 7 2 Isopropoxyimino 2 5 amino 1,2,4 thiadiazol 3 yl acetamido 3 l,3,4 thiadiazol 2 yl thiomethyl 3 cephem 4 carboxylic acid syn isomer 8 7 2 Methoxyimino 2 5 amino 1,2,4 thiadiazol 3 yl acetamido 3 1 allyl 1H tetrazol 5 yl thiomethyl 3 cephem 4 carboxylic acid syn isomer 9 7 2 Ethoxyimino 2 5 amino 1,2,4 thiadiazol 3 yl acetamido 3 cephem 4 carboxylic acid syn isomer 10 7 2 Methoxyimino 2 5 amino 1,2,4 thiadiazol 3 yl acetamido 3 1 3 aminopropyl 1H tetrazol 5 yl thiomethyl 3 cephem 4 carboxylic acid syn isomer Test Method In vitro antibacterial activity was determined by the two fold agar plate dilution method as described below. One loopful of an overnight culture of each test strain in Trypticase soy broth 108 viable cells per ml. was streaked on heart infusion agar HI agar containing graded concentrations of test compounds, and minimal inhibitory concentration MIC was expressed in terms of g ml. after incubation at 370C for 20 hours. Test Results EMI31.1 Test SEP M SEP I SEP C SEP g ml tb SEP Bacteria SEP Test SEP Compound tb 1 SEP 2 SEP 3 SEP 4 SEP 5 SEP 6 SEP 7 SEP 8 SEP 9 SEP 10 tb SEP B. SEP subtilis tb 3.13 SEP 3.13 SEP 6.25 SEP 3.13 SEP 6.25 SEP 3.13 SEP 1.56 SEP 3.13 SEP 12.5 SEP 6.25 tb ATCC SEP 6633 tb E. SEP coli SEP NIHJ tb 0.2 SEP 0.05 SEP 0.2 SEP 0.2 SEP 0.1 SEP 0.1 SEP 0.78 SEP 0.1 SEP 0.05 SEP 0.1 tb JC SEP SEP 2 tb Kl. SEP pneumoniae tb 0.2 SEP 0.1 SEP 0.1 SEP 0.39 SEP 0.05 SEP 0.39 SEP 3.13 SEP 0.39 SEP 0.2 SEP 0.2 tb 12 tb SEP Pr. SEP vulagris tb 0.2 SEP 0.2 SEP 0.1 SEP 0.2 SEP 0.05 SEP 0.2 SEP 0.39 SEP 0.39 SEP 0.05 SEP 0.78 tb 2 tb SEP Ps SEP aeruginosa tb 6 25 SEP 3.13 SEP 6.25 SEP 3.13 SEP 12.5 SEP 12.5 SEP 3.13 SEP 6.25 SEP 3.13 SEP 12.5 tb NCT 10490 tb For therapeutic administration, the object compound I f the res ent invention is used in the form of conventional pharmaceutical preparation which contains said compounds, as an active ingredient, in admixture with a pharmaceutically acceptable carriers such as an organic or inorganic solid or liquid excipient which is suitable for oral, parenteral or external administration.The pharmaceutical preparations may be in solid form such as capsule, tablet, dragee, ointment or suppository, or in liquid form such as solution, suspension, or emulsion.If needed, there may be included in the above preparations auxiliary substances, stabilizing agents, wetting or emulsifying agents, buffers and the other commonly used additives. While the dosage of the compounds may var r from and also depend upon the age, conditions of the patient, a kind of disease, a kind of the compound I to be applied, etc., an average single dose of about 50 mg., 100 mg., 250 mg, and 500 mg. of the object compound I of the present invention has proved to be effective in treating diseases infected by pathogenic bacteria. In general, daily dose between 5 mg. and about 3,000 mg. or even more may be administered to a patient. The following Preparations and Examples are given for the purpose of illustrating the present invention Preparation 1 Preparation of Methyl 5 aminc 1,2,4 thiadiazole 3 carboxylate. To a solution of 1 ethoxycarbonformamidine. hydrobromide 16.6 g. in absolute methanol 84 ml was added a solution of sodium 1.93 g in absolute methanol 42 ml at 0 C. To the mixture were added alternately bromine 12.8 g and a solution of sodium 1.93 g in absolute methanol 42 ml at 0 C and then to the suspension was added potassium thiocyanate 8.1 g in absolute methanol 100 ml . The reaction mixture was stirred for an hour at 00C and for an additional 6 hours at ambient temperature. The mixture was filtered through cellulose powder and the filtrate was evaporated to dryness. The residue was dissolved in a mixture of ethyl acetate and water, and then the ethyl acetate layer was separated and dried over anhydrous magnesium sulfate. The solvent was evaporated and the residue was triturated with diethyl ether to give the title compound 9.0 g , mp. 202 to 205 C. I.R. Nujol 3400, 3250, 3100, 1710, 1610, 1540 cm Ú N.M.R. d6 DMSO 6 3.85 3H, s , 8.25 2H, s Preparation 2 Preparation of Methyl 5 formamido l,2,4 thiadiavole 3 carboxylate. To a mixture of formic acid 33 g and acetic anhydride 22 g was added methyl 5 amino 1,2,4 thiadiazole 3 carboxylate 6.2 g , and then the mixture was stirred for 2 days at ambient temperature. The reaction mixture was concentrated under reduced pressure and the residue was triturated with a mixture of diethyl ether and n hexane to give the title compound 7.2 g , mp. 210 to 2150C. I.R. Nujol 3100, 1720, 168Q cm 1 N.M.R. d6 DMSO 3.90 3H, s , 8.85 1H, s Preparation 3 Preparation of 5 Formamido 3 2 methylthio 2 methylsulfinylacetyl 1,2,4 thiadiazole. To a mixture of methyl 5 formamido l,2,4 thiadiazole 3 carboxylate 9.2 g and methyl methylthiomethyl sulfoxide 6.1 g in N,N dimethylformamide 100 ml ,was added 50 sodium hydride 7.1 g with cooling in an ice bath. The mixture was stirred for an hour at ambient temperature and tor an additional one hour at 40 C. After cooling to ambient temperature, methylene chloride 300 ml was added to the reaction mixture, and the resulting precipitates were collected by filtration and washed with methylene chloride. The precipitates were added to a stirred mixture of hydrochloric acid 14.7 ml , ice water 200 ml and methylene chloride 200 ml .An insoluble material was filtered off and the methylene chloride layer was separated from the filtrate. The solution was dried over anhydrous magnesium sulfate, evaporated and the residue was triturated with diethyl ether to give the title compound 4.5 g , mp. 130 to 1320C. I.R. Nujol 3100, 1680, 1670 cm 1 N.M.R. d6 DMSO 2.22 3H, 2s 2.28 2.68 2H, 2s 2.85 5.70 1H, s 5.8Q 8.86 1H, s Prepar ation 4 Preparation of S methyl 5 formamido 1,2,4 thiadiazol 3 yl thioglyoxylate. A mixture of 5 formamio 3 2 methylthio 2 methylsulfinylacetyl 1,2,4 thiadiazole 0.85 g and sodium periodate 0.2 g in glacial acetic acid 10 ml was stirred for 45 minutes at 700C. .The reaction mixture was evaporated and the residue was dissolved in a mixture of ethyl acetate and water.The mixture was adjusted to pH 7 with an aqueous solution of sodium bicarbonate and treated with an aqueous solution of sodium thiosulfate. The organic layer was separated, dried over anhydrous magnesium sulfate and evaporated to dryness. The residue was triturated with a mixture of diethyl ether and petroleum ether to give the title compound 280 mg , mp. 186 to 1870C. I.R. Nujol 3100, 1680, 1660 cm Ú N.M.R. d6 DMSO 6 2.55 3H, s , 8.95 1H, s Preparation 5 Preparation of 2 Methoxyimino 2 5 formamido 1,2,4 thiadiazol 3 yl acetic acid syn isomer . A mixture of S methyl 5 formamido l,2,4 thiadiazol 3 yl thioglycoxylate 231 mg in methanol 2 ml and lN aqueous solution of potassium hydroxide 3.5 ml was stirred for an hour at ambient temperature. The mixture was adjusted to pH 7.6 with 1N hydrochloric acid, followed by an addition of. 0 methylhydroxylamine hydrochloride 90 mg and stirring for 30 minutes at ambient temperature. The reaction mixture was neutralized with an aqueous solution of sodium bicarbonate and concentrated to remove methanol. The concentrated aqueous solution was adjusted to pH 4 with.hrdrochloric acid and washed with ethyl acetate. The aqueous layer was adjusted to pH 1 with hydrochloric acid, saturated with sodium chloride and extracted with ethyl acetate.The extract was evaporated to dryness and the residue was triturated with diethyl ether, collected by filtration and then dried to give the title compound 80 mg , mp. 185 to 1860C. I.R. Nujol 3150, 1720, 1690 cm 1 N.M.R. d6 DMSO 3.98 3H, s , 8.84 lH, s Preparation 6 Preparation of 2 Methoxyimino 2 5 formamido 1,2, 4 thiadiazol 3 yl acetic acrid sm isomer A mixture of 5 formamido 3 2 methylthio 2 methylsulfinylacetyl 1,2,4 thiadiazole 3.2 g and sodium periodate 0.8 g in glacial acetic acid 32 ml was stirred for 45 minutes at 700C. The resulting mixture was evaporated and the residue was washed with n hexane and then thereto were added methanol 20 ml and 1N aqueous solution of potassium hydroxide 40 ml . The solution was stirred for an hour at ambient temperature. The reaction mixture was adjusted to pH 8 with lN hydrochloric acid, followed by an addition of 0 methylhydroxylamine hydrochloride 0.96 g and stirring for an hour at ambient temperature. The reaction mixture was neutralized with an aqueous solution of sodium bicarbonate and concentrated to remove methanol. The resulting aqueous solution was washed with ethyl acetate, adjusted to pH 1 with 10 hydrochloric acid, saturated with sodium chloride and extracted with with ethyl acetate The extract was dried over anhydrous magnesium sulfate, evaporated, and the residue was triturated with diisopropyl ether ta give the title compound 1.02 g , mp. 185 to 1860C.Preparation 7 Preparation of 2 Methoxyimino 2 5 amino 1,2,4 thiadiazol 3 yl acetic acid syn isomer . A solution of 2 methoxyimino 2 5 formamido 1,2,4 thidiazol 3 yl acetic acid syn isomer 1.4 g in lN aqueous solution of sodium hydroxide 19.1 ml was heated at 500 to 550C for an hour. To the solution was added conc.hydrocllloric acid 1.9 ml under cooling in an ice bath. The mixture was saturated with sodium chloride and extracted with ethyl acetate.The extract was dried over anhydrous magnesium sulfate and evaporated to dryness. The residue was triturated with diethyl ether to give the title compound 0.9 g mp. 180 to 182QC dec. . .I.R. Nujol 3450, 3250, 3100, 171S, 1610, 1530 cm Ú N.M.R. d6 DMSO 3.90 3H, s , 8.10 3H, broad s Preparation 8 A mixture of 5 formamido 3 2 methylthio 2methylsulfinylacetyl 1,2,4 thiadiazole lû g and sodium periodate 2.0 g in glacial acetic acid 5û ml was stirred for 50 minutes at 70 C. The solvent was evaporated and the residue was washed with n hexane. To the residue was added lN aqueous solution of sodium hydroxide 160 ml and the mixture was stirred for an hour at ambient temperature. To the reaction mixture was added 0 ethylhydroxylamine hydrochloride 3.5 g and the solution was adjusted to pH 3 to 4 with 10 hydrochloric acid and then stirred for an hour at ambient temperature.After an insoluble material was filtered off, the filtrate was washed with ethyl acetate, adjusted to pH 1 with 10 hydrochloric acid and extracted with ethyl acetate.The extract was dried over magnesium sulfate and evaporated to dryness. The residue was triturated with a mixture of diethyl ether and diisopropyl ether to give 2 ethoxyimino 2 5 formamido 1,2,4 thiadiazol3 yl acetic acid syn isomer 4.5 g , mp. 165 to 168 C dec. . I.R Nujol 3450, 3170 3050, 1730, 1690, 1595, 1565 cm Ú N.M.R. d6 DMSO 6 1.30 3H, t, J 7Hz , 4.30 2H, q, J 7Hz , 8.87 1H, s Preparation 9 The following compounds were obtained according to a similar manner to that of Preparation 8. 1 2 Propoximino 2 5 formamido 1,2,4 thiadiazol3 yl acetic acid syn isomer , mp.168 to 1700C dec. . I.R, Nujol 3250, 3140, 1720, 1690, 1590, 1530 cm Ú N.M.R. d6 DMSO 6 0.90 3H, t, J 6Hz , 1.4 1.9 2H, m , 4.17 2H, t, J 6Hz , 8.85 1H, s 2 2 Isopropoxyimino 2 5 formamido 1,2,4 thiadiazol3 yl acetic acid syn isomer , mp. 180 to 1820C dec. . I,R. Nujol 3230, 1720, 1690, 1590, 1530 cm Ú N.M.R. d6 DMSO 6 1.25 6H, d, J 6Hz , 4.2 4.7 lH, m , 8.85 lH, s Prenaration 10 A mixture of 2 ethoxyimino 2 5 formamido 1,2,4 thiadiazol 3 yl acetic acid syn isomer 4.4 g and IN aqueous solution of sodium hydroxide 54. ml was stirred for 2 hours at 50 to 55 C. The mixture was cooled in an ice bath, acidified with hydrochloric acid 5.4 ml and extracred with ethyl acetate. The extract was dried over magnesium sulfate and evaporated to dryness.The residue was triturated with diethyl ether to give 2 ethoxyimino 2 5 amino 1,2,4 thiadiazol 3 yl acetic acid syn isomer 2.92 g , mp. 168 to 1700C dec. . I.R. Nujol 3450, 3370, 3250, 3150, 1665, 1610, 1530 cm Ú N.M.R. d6 DMSO 6 1.22 3H, t, J 7Hz , 4.17 2H, q, J 7Hz , 8.17 2H, broad s Preparation 11 The following compounds were obtained according to a similar manner to that of Preparation 10,. 1 2 Propoxyimino 2 5 amino 1,2,4 thiadiazol 3yl acetic acid syn isomer , mp. 100 to 103 C ec. . I.R. Nujol 3620, 3520, 3350, 3120, 2600 2500, 1720, 1620, 1550 cm 1 N.M.R. d6 DMSO 1.00 3H, t, J 6Hz , 1.3 2.0 2H, m 4.13 2H, t, J 6Hz , 8.17 2H, broad, s 2 2 Isopropoxyimino 2 5 amino 1,2,4 dhiadiazol3 yl acetic acid syn isomer , Mp. 152 to 155 C dec. . I.R. Nujol 3450, 3300, 3200, 1730, 1620ä, 1530 cm Ú N.M.R. d6 DMSO 1.22 6H, d, J 6Hz , 4.1 4.6 1H, m , 8.20 2H, broad s