# Composition of make up for eyes.

## Abstract
Eye make up compsn. contains an inorganic binding agent I . Pref. I is a CaSO4 deriv. hemi or di hydrate etc. including plaster gypsum cement , calcinated prods. of mineral mixts. mostly CaSO4 , or prods. obtd. by burning stones or rockets. Compsn. is wetted with a polar wetting agent esp. H2O to become a pourable suspension which is then cast in moulds and allowed to set. Compsn. contained plaster 10 pts. , pigment 2 pts. , TiO2 10 pts. , timica 30 pts. , viscous oil 15 pts. , and H2O 55 pts. . Use of I allows a make up compact or disc to be prepd. without the use of high pressures, and the formed discs don t fall out of the containers, etc. In addn., binding agents such as microcellulose are not needed.

## Claims
C L A I M S 1. Composition of make up for eyes, characterized in, that the composition contains an inorganic binding agent. 2. Composition according to claim 1, characterized in, that the inorganic binding agent is a calcium sulfate compound. 3. Composition according to one of the claims 1 or 2, characterized in, that the composition is wetted by a polar wetting agent to a pourable suspension or slurry. 4. Composition according to one of the claims 1, 2 or 3, characterized in, that the composition has grown stiff or dried up to a coherent mass. 5. Composition according to one of the claims 1, 2, 3 or 4, characterized in, that the composition contains plaster gypsum cements and or calcinated products of mineral mixtures of which the greater part consists of calcium sulfate. 6. Composition according to one of the claims 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5, characterized in, that the composition contains as an inorganic binding agent a product obtained by burning stones or rockets. 7. Method to make a coherent ma ss of eye make up powder, characterized in, that a certain quantity of an inorganic binding agent is added to a certain quantity of eye make up powder and that next this mixture is wetted by a polar wetting agent, for example water, to a pourable suspension or slurry. 8. Method according to claim 7, characterized in, that after the slurry has been poured for example into small containers and the slurry has grown stiff or dried up, the obtained product is slightly compressed.

## Description
Composition of make un for eyes The invention relates to a composition of make up for eyes or eye shadow and a method to make a compact make up powder for eyes. Generally known is a little container or box in which a disk of a certain quantity of compact eye shadow powder is fixed and which powder is used by ladies to change their colour of the skin near their eyes. This disks of compact eye shadow powder is manufactured by mixing a certain quantity of eye shadow powder with a certain quantity of a binding agent first and then to compress under a high pressure, 32 35 atmosphere, this mixture to a disk or compact. As binding agents for example are used micro cellulose, dextrin starchgum or carboxyl methyl cellulose. The obtained disks are fixed in little containers and covered by a transparant lid. The aim of the invention is a composition of make up for eyes or eye shadow and a method to make a compact of make up powder for eyes, where the use of high pressure is no longer needed to obtain a compact eye make up powder. According to the invention the composition of the makeup for eyes comprises an inorganic binding agent in the preferred composition the binding agent used is a calcium sulfate compound, such as CaS04.2H20, CaSO4.12H2O, etc. Through wetting the composition by a polar wetting agent, such as water, the composition becomes a pourable suspension or slurry which after pouring dries up and grows stiff so that a coherent mass is formed. The pourable suspension for example can poured directly into the little containers of boxes by means of a filling machine after filling, the little containers can be covered by a transparant lid. After the slurry is grown stiff it is directly ready for use. If desired the coherent mass can be slightly compressed so to improve the aspect of the final product. Hereinafter will be described the method to make a coherent compact or disk of eye make up powder or eye shadow.A certain quantity of eye make up powder is mixed with a certain quantity of an inorganic binding agent then this mixture is wetted by a pol ar wetting agent, for example water, untill a slurry or pourable suspension is obtained and finally a number of little containers or boxes are filled with a desired quantity of this slurry. After the slurry has grown stiff or dried up the obtained product can be slightly compressed. Also as a binding agent can be used plaster gypsumcement , calcinated products of mineral mixtures of which the greater part consists of calcium sulfate or also products obtained by burning stones or rockets. Ground gypsum CaSO4.2H20 can serve as a substance of eye make up powder. By using a weighed quantity of plaster CaS04. H20 as a binding agent there is no longer the need to use the afore mentioned binding agents such as microcellulose. In the method according to the invention there is no longer the obligation to compress the eye make up powder by means of high pressure to obtain a compact disk of the make up powder. A great economic benefit is yield, due to the fact that the eye make up powder mixture can be poured directly into the little containers no longer the disks have to be fixed into the containers the disks of powder also won t fall out of the containers what happened once in a while with the disks made under high pressure. A special advantage of the method of manufacturing according to the invention are the unlimited possibilities to shape the thus obtained compact eye make up powder. Example of a pourable slurry of an eye make up powder according to the invention is Plaster 10 partsPigment 2 partsTitaniumdioxyde 10 partsTimica 30 partsViscous oil 15 partsWater 55 parts