# Thermochromic polyacetylenic composition, process therefor, temperature measuring and indicia displaying devices and process for recording and thereafter erasing images.

## Abstract
Certain polyacetylenes exhibit reversible color changes at transition temperatures in the range 180 to 220 C., wherein the thermochromic cycles can be repeated many times with no apparent degradation and little change in spectroscopic properties. These thermochromic polyacetylenes are useful in temperature indicator and indicia display devices. A process for laser beam recording of images is de scribed employing such thermochromic polyacetylene, in which the hysteresis properties of the polyacetylene can be adjusted to allow storing and thereafter erasing the formed image.

## Claims
Claims 1. A thermochromic polyacetylene composition selected from the group consisting of 1 polydiacetylenes obtained by polymerizing monomers having the following formula A RNHOCO CH2 n C C C C CH2 n OCONHRÚ wherein a n is 4 and R and R can be the same or differ ent and are isopropyl, n octadecyl, linear C1 C4 p or m alkylphenyl, o or m chloro phenyl or linear C1 C4 monochloroalkyl b n is 3 and R and R can be the same or different and are linear C1 C4 m alkylphenyl, or m or p chlorophenyl c n is 2 and R and R can be the same or differ ent and are linear C1 C4 m alkylphenyl, p methoxyphenyl or linear C1 C4 m alkoxyphenyl 2 polyacetylenic network polymers obtained by 1,4 addition of crosslinkable polyacetylenes having the following formulas B OCONH CH2 6 NHOCO CH2 n C C C C CH2 2 C C C C CH2 n x wherein x is large and n is an integer from 2 6 C OCONH CH2 6NHOCO CH2 n C C C C CH2 2 2C C C C CH2 n x wherein x is large and n is 3 and copolymers formed from monomers of the above formula B , and formula C wherein n is 3 3 partially polymerized acetylenic compounds contain ing from about 0.1 to about 50 weight percent poly mer obtained by polymerizing acetylenic composi tions having one of the above formulas A or C , or one of formulas D, E or F below formulas A and C being rewritten below as A and C A RNHOCO CH2 n C C C C CH2 n OCONHR wherein a n is 4 and R and R are p chlorophenyl or p bromophenyl b n is 3 and R and R can be the same or dif ferent and are linear C4 C18 alkyl, linear C1 C4 o alkoxyphenyl or linear C1 C4 o alkylphenyl c n is 2 and R and R can be the same or dif ferent and are linear C2 C18 alkyl, or m chlorophenyl d n is 1 and R and Rt can be the same or dif ferent and are linear C6 C18 alkyl C fOCONH CH2 6 NHOCO CH2 n C C C C CH2 2 2C C C C Ch2 n x wherein x is large and n is 2 or 4 D RNHOCO CH2 n C C C C Ch2 2 C C C C CH2 n OCONHR where in a n is 4 and R and R can be the same or dif ferent and are linear C1 C18 alkyl b n is 3 and R and.R can be the same or dif ferent and are linear C1 C18 alkyl c n is 2 and R and R can be the same or dif ferent and are linear C2 C18 alkyl E RNHOCO CH2 n C C C C CH2 2 2 C C C C CH2 n OCONHR wherein a n is 4 and Rand R can be the same or dif ferent and are linear C2 C18 alkyl b n is 3 and R and R can be the same or dif ferent and are linear Cl Cl8 alkyl c n is 2 and R and R can be the same or dif ferent and are linear Cl Cl8 alkyl or phenyl F HO CH2 n C C C C CH2 2 C C 2 wherein n is 2 or 3. 2. The partially polymerized acetylenic compounds of claim 1 containing from about 0.5 to about 10 percent by weight polymer. 3. A composition of claim 1 wherein R is the same as R . 4. A composition of claim 1 obtained by polymerizing a monomer of formula A wherein n is 4 and R is isopropyl and R is n octadecyl. 5. A composition of claim 1 wherein the thermochromic polyacetylene is substantially crystalline. 6. A composition of claim 1 wherein the thermochromic polyacetylene possesses a hysteresis transition temperature which is at least about 50C below its thermochromic transition temperature. 7. A process for producing thermochromic polyacetylenes of claim 1 which comprises the steps of 1 irradiating a monomer oz formula A , or B , or C where n is 3 with at least about 0.1 Mrads of gamma radiation at room temperature, or its equivalent at other temperatures and 2 extracting out unpolymerized monomer from the irradiated polyacetylene. 8. The process of claim 7 wherein the monomer of formula A , B or C is irradiated with gamma radiation of a dosage of at least 5 Mrads at room temperature, or its equivalent at other temperatures, whereby a relatively low hysteresis transition temperature is obtained. 9. A process for producing thermochromic partially polymerized acetylenic compositions of claim 1 containing from about 0.1 to about 50 weight percent polymer which comprises thermally annealing a monomer of formulas A , C , D , E or F or irradiating such monomer with ultraviolet radiation or gamma radiation up to a dosage of about 5 Mrads at room temperature, or its equivalent at other temperatures. 10. A device for measuring and optionally for recording temperature comprising a substrate having deposited thereon at least one thermochromic polyacetylene formed by polymerizing an acetylenic compound containing at least one CC CC group. 11. A device for displaying indicia comprising a substrate having deposited thereon at least one thermochrornic polyacetylene, formed by polymerizing an acetylenic compound containing at least one CEC CEC group in the form of a symbol. 12. The device of either claim 10 or 11 wherein the thermochromic polyacetylene is a composition of claim 1 and possesses a hysteresis transition temperature which is at least about 50C below its thermochromic transition temperature. 13. In a process for recording and thereafter erasing images, wherein a thermochromic layer on a substrate is exposed to a laser beam thereby forming an image by the resulting heating of the thermochromic layer above its thermochroinic transition temperature, the improvement which comprises forming said layer from at least one thermochromic polyacetylene, formed by polymerizing an acetylenic compound containing at least one C T C C group, said thermochromic polyacetylene possessing a hysteresis transition temperature which is at least about 50C below its thermochromic transition temperature and maintaining said layer, after exposure, between its thermochromic transition temperature and its hysteresis transition temperature to store the image while recording the same and thereafter cooling said layer below the hysteresis transition temperature to erase the image. 14. The process of claim 13 wherein the thermochromic polyacetylene is a composition of claim 1 and possesses a hysteresis transition temperature which is at least about lO0C below its thermochromic transition temperature.

## Description
DESCRIPTION THERMOCHROMIC POLYACETYLENIC COMPOSITIONS, PROCESSES THEREFOR, AND USE THEREOF IN TEMPERATURE MEASURINGDEVICES AND FOR RECORDING AND THEREAFTER ERASING IMAGES BACKGROUND OF THE ItEENTION 1. Field of the Invention This invention relates to thermochromic polyacetylenes useful in temperature indicator, indiciadisplay and laser writing device applications.2. Description of the Prior Art Examples of organic polymers which evidence thermochromic properties, that is, evidence a reversible change of color with temperature are rare in contrast to photochromic polymers. Poly dodeca 5 ,7 diyn l,12 diol bis ethylurethane , called poly ETCD , has been observed to change reversibly from green to red in the temperature range of 1200 to 1400C, as disclosed inU.S.N.T.I.S., AD Rep. 1974, No. 783709 9GA, from Govt.Rep. Announce. U.S. 1974, 74 21 , 51 and G. J.Exarhos, W. M. Risen, Jr., and R. H. Baughman, Journal of American Chemical Society, Vol. 98, pp. 481 487, 1976 . U.S.P. 3,501,297 Creamens, 1970 describes a mixture of 7,9 hexadecadiyndioic acid and monomethyl ester of 7,9 hexadecadiyndioic acid forming a blue colored image upon electron beam irradiation wherein the blue color can be reversibly converted to a red color by heating above 500C and returned to the blue color upon cooling to below 500 C. Certain diacetylenes capable of forming images on exposure to radiation are described in U.S.P.3,822,134 1974 . Mention is made of stabilizing and fixing the resulting image by heating the irradiated diacetylene to a temperature range, below the melting point, wherein the irradiated image permanently changes color. U.S.P. 3,999,946 1976 describes diacetylenes containing at least two conjugated CC groups being capable of undergoing irreversible color changes, upon thermal annealing or exposure to radiation, utilized as integral time temperature history indicators. U.S.P. 3,723,121 1973 describes a process for laser beam recording utilizing a chromatic polyacetylenic material containing at least two acetylenic linkages in a conjugated system, such that the material is converted by absorption of incident laser radiation to a color which transmits the incident laser beam wherein no further change takes place. However, the patent does not describe the use of materials which will undergo this process in a reversible manner, to allow storing and thereafter erasing the formed image, which is an important factor in the utility of such materials for laser recording applications. Journal of Polymer Science, Polymer LettersEdition, viol. 16 of Nov. 1978, pp. 607 614 Patel et al. discloses diacetylenes of the formula, RNHOCO CH C C C C CH OCONHR 2n 2n where n is 3 or 4 and R is CH2 CO2Z, with Z n butyl or ethyl, as crystalline diacetylene polymers, soluble in chloroform. No mention is made of any therrnochromic properties of the compounds. German Patents 1,940,690 1971 , 1,940,691 1971 and 1,940,692 1971 describe the use of compounds such as the phenyl, naphthyl, n butyl, cyclohexyl, p tolyl and p chlorophenyl urethane derivatives of 2,4hexadiyn 1,6 diol and 3,5 octadiyn 1,8 diol in a process for forming picture like images, process for preparation of fibrous polymers, and as hardenable materials formed by irradiation, respectively. However, no mention is made of any thermochromic properties which such materials may possess. SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION It has now been found that certain acetylenic monomers, specified below, form polymers upon thermal annealing or exposure to radiation which exhibit thermochromic behavior. The thermochromic behavior is unpredictable and has been found to occur in certain narrow classes of polyacetylenic compounds. In accordance with the present invention there is provided a thermochromic polyacetylene composition selected from the group consisting of 1 polydiacetylenes obtained by polymerizing monomers having the following formula A RNHOCO CH2 n C C C C CH2 n OCONHR wherein a n is 4 and R and R can be the same or differ ent and are isopropyl, n octadecyl, linear C C4 p or m alkylphenyl, o or m chloro phenyl or linear C1 C4 monochloroalkyl b n is 3 and R and R can be the same or different and are linear C1 C4 m alkylphenyl, or m or p chlorophenyl c n is 2 and R and R can be the same or differ ent and are linear C1 C4 m alkylphenyl, p methoxyphenyl or linear C1 C4 m alkoxyphenyl 2 polyacetylenic network polymers obtained by 1,4 addition of crosslinkable polyacetylenes having the following formulas B OCONH CH2 6 NHOCO CH2 n C C C C n 22 2nx wherein x is large and n is an integer from 2 6 C OCONH CH2 6 NHOCO CH2 n C C CH2 2 9C C C C CH2 n x where in x is large and n is 3 and copolymers formed from monomers of the above formula B , and formula C wherein n is 3 3 partially polymerized acetylenic compounds contain ing from about 0.1 to about 50 weight percent poly mer obtained by polymerizing acetylenic composi tions having one of the above formulas A or C , or one of formulas D, E or F below formulas A and C being rewritten below as A and C A RNHOCO CH2 n C C C C CH2 n OCONHR wherein a n is 4 and R and R are p chlorophenyl or p bromophenyl b n is 3 and R and R can be the. same or dif ferent and are linear C4 C18 alkyl, linear C1 C4 o alkoxyphenyl or linear C1 C4 o alkylphenyl c n is 2 and R and R can be the same or dif ferent and are linear C2 C18 alkyl, or m chlorophenyl d n is 1 and Rand R can be the same or dif ferent and are linear C6 C18 alkyl C f OCONH CH2 6 NHOCO CH2 n C C C C CH2 2 2C C C C CH2 n x wherein x is large and n is 2 or 4 D RNHOCO CH2 n C C C C CH2 2 C C C C CH2 n OCONHR wherein a n is 4 and Rand R can be the same or dif ferent and are linear Cl Cl8 alkyl b n is 3 and Rand R can be the same or dif ferent and are linear C1 C18 alkyl c n is 2 and R and R can be the same or dif ferent and are linear C2 C18 alkyl E RNHOCO CH2 n C C C C CH2 2 2 C C C C CH2 n OCONHR where in a n is 4 and R and R can be the same or dif ferent and are linear C2 C18 alkyl b n is 3 and Rand R can be the same or dif ferent and are linear C1 C18 alkyl c n is 2 and Rand R can be the same or dif ferent and are linear C1 C18 alkyl or phenyl F HO CEl2 n C C C C CH2 2 C C 2 wherein n is 2 or 3. A process is provided for producing thermochromic polyacetylenes which comprises the steps of 1 irradiating a monomer as shown for formula A , B , or C above with at least about 0.1 Mrads of gamma radiation at room temperature or its equivalent at other temperatures and 2 extracting out unpolymerized monomer from the irradiated polyacetylene. A specific embodiment of this process is provided wherein irradiation is with a dosage of at least 5 Mrads at room temperature, or its equivalent at other temperatures, whereby a relatively low hysteresis transition temperature is obtained. Also provided is a process for producing thermochromic partially polymerized acetylenic compounds containing from about 0.1 to about 50 weight percent polymer which comprises thermally annealing a monomer as shown above for formulas A , C , D , E , or F or irradiating such monomer with ultraviolet radiation or gamma radiation up to a dosage of about 5 Mrads at room temperature, or its equivalent at other temperatures. Also provided is a device for measuring temperature comprising a substrate having deposited thereon at least one thermochromic polyacetylene of claim 1. There is further provided a device for displaying indicia comprising a substrate having deposited thereon at least one thermochromic polyacetylene of claim 1, in the form of a symbol. Further provided is an improvement in a process for recording and thereafter erasing images, wherein a thermochromic layer on a substrate is exposed to a laser beam thereby forming an image by the resulting heating of the thermochromic layer above its thermochromic transition temperature, which improvement comprises forming said layer from at least one thermochromic polyacetylene of claim 1, said thermochromic polyacetylene possessing a hysteresis transition temperature which is at least about 50C below its thermochromic transition temperature and maintaining said layer, after exposure, between its thermochromic transition temperature and its hysteresis transition temperature to store the image while recording the same and thereafter cooling said layer below the hysteresis transition temperature to erase the image. Brief Description of the Drawing Figure 1 illustrates the hysteresis curve of poly 5,7 dodecadiyn 1,12 diol bisethylurethane poly 60ETCD , polymerized by a dosage of 50 Mrads of Co y radiation. The curve is obtained by plotting temperature vs. absorption edge in electron volts eV , wherein the absorption edge is the energy value at which the material begins to strongly absorb incident light. An energy value of 1.9 eV indicates the material appears green gold to the eye and an energy value of 2.2 eV indicates the material appears red.The curve illustrates that poly ETCD appears red when heated at 120 1300C, the thermochromic transition temperature, but has to be cooled to about 510C, the hysteresis transition temperature, in order to reversibly revert to the original green gold color. DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION The thermochrornic polyacetylenes of this invention are derived from acetylenic monomers or polymers containing at least one CC C C group, and the term thermochromic as used herein refers to a reversible color change upon heating or cooling which is observed for the polyacetylenes of this invention. The term polyacetylene as used herein includes polydiacetylenes, polyacetylenic network polymers, and partially polymerized acetylenic compounds. The term polydiacetylene is used herein to describe polymers produced by 1,4 addition from monomers having formula A . The term polyacetylenic network polymer is used to describe the polymers produced from the cross linkable polyacetylenes of formula B and formula C wherein n is 3, by an intermolecular 1,4 addition reaction. Compositions of formulas B and C which are polymers formed from hexamethylene diisocyanate and the appropriate acetylenic diol, are referred to as crosslinkable polyacetylenes and usually have values for x of above 1. By the term crosslinkable is meant that the polymers contain CC C C functionality, and can undergo 1,4 addition with other C C C C functionalities in neighboring polymer chains. The term partially polymerized acetylenic compounds is used to describe mixtures of monomer and polymer containing up to about 50 weight percent polymer, obtained by polymerizing acetylenic compounds of formula C , D , E , or F . The monomers for producing the polyacetylenes are generally colorless and undergo a color change upon thermal annealing or exposure to radiation. This color change is associated with an intermolecular 1,4 addition polymerization reaction between adjacent CC CC functionalities. In general, the color change is a progressive process to either red or blue through gradations of shades. At higher conversions usually above 10 the red or blue coloration of the polyacetylene will significantly intensify resulting in a dark coloration. The polyacetylene at high conversions may also exhibit a metallic luster. It has been unexpectedly found that certain polyacetylenes undergo a reversible color change from dark or metallic color to a bright red or orange color at a temperature below their respective melting points.For example, poly 5,7 dodecadiyn 1,12 diol bis n octadecylurethane undergoes a reversible thermochromic transition from a black brown color at about 1300C to a bright orange color at 1400C and the cycle can be repeated many times with no apparent degradation of the polymer properties. This thermochromic property is associated with only a fe specific types of polyacetylenes and the behavior is generally not predictable. The observance and measurement of the thermochromic behavior is usually accomplished on any type of conventional melting point apparatus, such as a FisherJohns melting point apparatus, having a means for clearly viewing the color change and the thermochromic transition temperature and a means for cooling the heated polyacetylene to complete the thermochromic cycle. The thermochromism may also be monitored using absorption, normal incidence reflection, or diffuse reflectance spectroscopy. The thermochromic polyacetylenes of this invention can be obtained by polymerization in the solid state by thermal annealing below the melting point of the monomer, or by exposure to actinic radiation. It is preferred to use actinic radiation for the polymerization process such as ultraviolet, electron beam, alpha , beta or gamma radiation, and the like, and it is particularly preferred to use gamma radiation produced from a Co60 source, or ultraviolet radiation. By the term solid state is meant a physical state which can be completely amorphous, substantially crystalline, or amorphous with crystalline regions randomly located within the solid. It is preferred to use a substantially crystalline monomer for producing the thermochromic polyacetylenes, since in general they produce substantially crystalline polyacetylenes which possess optimum thermochromic characteristics. Substantially crystalline polyacetylenes are preferred in the invention. The thermochromic polyacetylenes of this invention produced by solid state polymerization are either fully polymerized or partially polymerized. By fully polymerized is meant that about 50 100 by weight of the monomer has been polymerized and most of the unreacted monomer extracted out from the crystalline polymer by a suitable solvent. In the case of the partially polymerized acetylenic compounds, from about 0.1 50 weight percent of the monomer has been polymerized, and the unreacted monomer is not extracted out. Thus, the term partially polymerized refers to a mixture of monomer and polymer, containing from about 0.1 to about 50 weight percent of polymer and preferably from about 0.5 to about 10 weight percent polymer. The partially polymerized acetylenic compounds of this invention are remarkable in that generally the fully polymerized monomer does not exhibit thermochromic properties whereas the unextracted partially polymerized polyacetylene of the same monomer does. For example, partially polymerized 5,7 dodecadiyn 1,12 diol bis pbromophenyl urethane is thermochromic whereas the fully polymerized monomer is not. However, the reverse is true for 4,6 decadiyn l,l0 diol bis ethoxycarbonylmethylurethane . The extent of polymerization is easily determined by extraction of unreacted monomer from the irradiated sample using a suitable solvent for the monomer but a nonsolvent for the polymer. The weight of the resulting polyacetylene compared to the weight of starting monomer represents percent of the conversion. The mechanism for thermochromism is not understood though it is believed to relate in specific fully polymerized materials to changes in crystal packing at the thermochromic transition, which affects the backbone bonding sequence and is not predictable in any straightforward way. Therefore, thermochromism is not predictable and it cannot be said that a general homologous series of compounds or general isomeric series of compounds will all exhibit the effect. For example, poly 5,7 dodecadiyn l,12 diol bis n hexylurethane is thermochromic, whereas poly 5,7 dodecadiyn 1,12 diol bis cyclohexylurethane is not. This unexpected thermochromic effect also extends to partially polymerized acetylenes.For example, partially polymerized 4,6 decadiyn l,l0 diol bis o tolylurethane is thermo chromic, but partially polymerized 4,6 decadiyn 1,12diol bis p tolylurethane is not. To further illustrate the uniqueness and novelty of these compounds, the following is a Table listing by formulas, general classes of polyacetylenes derived by polymerizing monomers of the indicated formulas which include thermochromic and nonthermochromic members. TABLE I Fully Polymerized Polyacetylenes derived froln the following monomers A RNHOCO CH2 n C C C C CH2 n OCONHR where R R Thermochroinic R n Non thermochromic R ethyl prior art 4 iso propyl n p bromophenyl n butyl n o methoxyphenyl n hexyl n cyclohexyl n octyl n cyclopropyl n dodecyl n t butyl n octadecyl n o tolyl n octadecyl isopropyl n p chlorophenyl ethoxycarbonylmethyl n m methoxyphenyl n butoxycarbonylmethyl m tolyl p tolyl n o chlorophenyl 2 chloroethyl ethoxycarbonylmethyl 3 n hexyl n butoxycarbonylmethyl n n butyl m tolyl n o chlorophenyl m chlorophenyl n p tolyl p chlorophenyl n 2,5 dimethylphenyl p methoxyphenyl n o methoxyphenyl m tolyl 2 m nitrophenyl m methoxyphenyl n cyclohexyl p methoxyphenyl 2, 2,6 dimethylphenyl o tolyl p ethoxyphenyl n n hexyl n n butyl 2, 2,5 dimethylphenyl TABLE I Continued Polyacetylene Network Polymers B OCONH CH2 6 NHOCO CH2 n C C C C CH2 C C C C CH2 n 2 x Thermochroiaic Non Thermochromic n 2,3,4 n l C OCONH CH2 6 llHOCO CH2 n C C C C CH2 2 2 C C C C CH2 n x Thermochromic Non Thermochromic n 3 n l Partially polymerized Acetylenic Compounds derived from the folloying monomers A RNHOCO CH2 n C C C C CH2 n OCONHR where R R Thermochromic R n Non Thermochromic R p bromophenyl 4 n hexyl n butyl 3 p tolyl n hexyl o methoxyphenyl n o tolyl n ethyl 2 cyclohexyl n butyl n n hexyl n butoxycarbonylmethyl m chlorophenyl n n hexyl 1 n butyl D RTI ID 12.7 RNHOCO CH2 n C C C C CH2 2 C C C C CH2 n OCONHR where R R Thermochromic R n Non Thermochromic R methyl 4 phenyl ethyl methyl 3 phenyl ethyl 2 methyl E RNHOCO CH2 n C C C C CH2 2 2 C C C C CH2 n OCONHR where R R Thermochromic R n Non Thermochromic ethyl 4 methyl methyl 3 phenyl ethyl F HO CH2 n C C C C CH2 2 C C 2 Thermochromic Non Thermochromic n 2,3 n 1,4 The thermochromic polyacetylene compositions of this invention are selected from the group consisting of the solid state polymerization products of specific sub classes of the compositions of formulas A , B , C , D , E and F , as above set out in the Summary of the Invention. Copolymers of formula B , and of formula C where n 3, are also a subject of this invention.For example, a thermochromic polyacetylene of formula B may contain both chain segments where n is 2 and where n is 3. Further included is a thermochromic polyacetylene copolymer containing chain segments of formula B where n is 2 and of formula C where n is 3. Thus, all copolymers of formula B and of formula C where n is 3, which are thermochromic after the solid state reaction, are included within the scope of this invention. The radicals R and R can be the same or different. Thermochromic polyacetylene compositions are preferred where R is the same as R . Polydiacetylenes of formula A wherein n is 4 and R and R are the same and are isopropyl, n octadecyl, or m tolyl are specific preferred embodiments of this invention since they exhibit very sharp thermochromic color transitions. Included among the polyacetylene compositions listed in the Summary of the Invention, are specific examples selected from the group consisting of those listed in the following Table II by formula and assignedRoman numerals. The Roman numerals are included as they are used in the Examples below, for convenient reference to specific compounds. TABLE II Fully Polymerized Diacetylenes derived from the following monomers 1. Monomers A RNHOCO CH2 n C C C C CH2 n OCONHR n R R Roman Numeral 4 iso propyl I n n butyl 11 n hexyl III n octyl IV n dodecyl V n octadecyl VI R n dodecyl, VII R isopropyl ethoxycarbonylmethyl VIII n butoxycarbonylmethyl IX m tolyl X p tolyl XI o chlorophenyl XII 2 chloroethyl XIII 3 ethoxycarbonylmethyl XV n butoxycarbonylmethyl XVI m tolyl XVII m chlorophenyl XVIII p chlorophenyl XIX 2 m tolyl XX m methoxyphenyl XXI p methoxyphenyl Polyacetylene Network Polymers derived from the following monomers OCONH CH2 6 NHOCO CH2 n C C C C CH2 2 C C C C CH2 n x 4 XXII 3 XXIII 2 XXV C OCONH CH2 6 NHOCO CH2 n C C C C CH2 2C C C C CH2 n x 3 XXVI TABLE II Continued Partially Polymerized Acetylenic RTI ID 15.1 Compounds derived from the following monomers A RNHOCO CH2 n C C C C CH2 n OCONHR n R R Roman Numeral 4 p bromophenyl XXVIII 3 n butyl XXIX n hexyl XXX o methoxyphenyl XXXI o tolyl XXXII 2 ethyl XXXIII n n butyl XXXIV n hexyl XXXV n butoxycarbonylmethyl XXXVI m chlorophenyl XXXV1I 1 n hexyl XXXVIII C OCONH CH2 6 NHOCO CH2 n C C C C CH2 2 2C C C C CH2 n x 4 XXV 2 XXVII D RNHOCO CH2 n C C C C CH2 2 C C C C CH2 n OCONHR 4 methyl XLI ethyl XLII 3 methyl XLIII 2 ethyl XLIV E RNHOCO CH2 n C C C C CH2 2 C C 2 4 ethyl XLV 3 methyl XLVI RTI ID 15.12 ethyl XLVII 2 methyl XLVIII ethyl XLIX phenyl L F HO CH2 n C C C C CH2 2 C Cl2 3 LI 2 LII Synthesis of Thermochromic Polyacetylenes In order to obtain the thermochromic polyacetylenes of the present invention and in particular to obtain these polymers in high yields, it is usually necessary to obtain acetylenic monomers with precursor crystal phases having suitable molecular packing in the solid state. Monomers suitable for making the polymers of the invention can be prepared by broadly known methods such as described in U.S.P. 3,999,946, supra. For example mono and bisurethane derivatives can be prepared by reacting the corresponding diyn ol or diyndiol with a suitable isocyanate. Thus, 5,7 dodecadiyn1,12 diol bis n octadecyl urethane VI is prepared by reacting 5,7 dodecadiyn 1,12 diol with n octadecyliso cyanate. A catalyst may be added to the reaction mixture to increase the reaction rate to produce the desired acetylenic monomer. Conventional tin catalysts e.g., dibutyltin di 2 ethylhexanoate, DBTE , and tertiary amines e.g., triethylamine, TEA have been used as catalysts. The reaction mixture may also be warmed as, for example, to about 450 to 550C to speed up the reaction. Such heating, however, is not required..The desired diyn ol or diyn diol can also be prepared by conventional methods. Thus, for example, 5,7 dodecadiyn l,l2 diol is prepared by the oxidative coupling of the corresponding alkyne, i.e., 5 hexyn l ol. Following preparation of the desired monomer, it is generally crystallized from an appropriate solvent, from the melt, or from the vapor so as to provide a solid monomer, preferably in a substantially crystalline phase, which is polymerizable. Suitable solvents employed in a solution crystallization include alkyl esters of monocarboxylic acids, alkyl alcohols, paraffins, olefines, benzenes, alkylated benzenes, ethers, ketones, petroleum ether, halogenated hydrocarbons and water. Representative examples include ethyl acetate, methyl propionate, methanol, ethanol, butanol, isopropanol, hexane, heptane, 1,4 dimethylheptane, toluene, xylene, trimethylbenzene, ethylether, isopropylether, 1,2 dimethoxyethane, tetrahydrofuran, dioxane, acetone, ethylmethyl ketone, chloroform, dichloromethane and trichloromethane and mixtures thereof.Especially preferred as crystallizing solvents are 1,2 dimethoxyethane, dioxane, tetrahydrofuran, petroleum ether, acetone, chloroform, benzene, methanol, ethanol, xylene, ethylacetate and water. Crystallization may, for example, be effected by room temperature evaporation of solutions containing from 0.0001 to 0.5 part, and preferably about 0.002 to 0.2 part by weight of monomer per part by weight of solvent or solvent blend. Alternatively, other conventional crystallization procedures may be used such as by sublimation or by cooling a saturated solution to a sufficiently low temperature usually at or above room temperature that the required crystallization occurred. A process for producing the fully polymerized thermochromic polyacetylenes disclosed herein is also a subject of this invention and comprises the steps of 1 irradiating a monomer of the above formula A , or B , or C where n is 3, with at least about 0.1Mrads of gamma radiation at room temperature or its equivalent at other temperatures and 2 extracting out unpolymerized monomer from the irradiated polyacetylene. The term 0.1 Mrads of gamma radiation at room temperature or its equivalent at other temperatures indicates that the dosage of gamma radiation required for polymerization will vary with the temperature at which the irradiation is conducted. Higher temperatures will in general require lesser amounts of gamma radiation and conversely, lower temperatures, i.e. below room temperature, will generally require slightly larger amounts of gamma radiation. It is preferred to use a dosage of gamma radiation in the range of about 15 to 100 Mrads, but higher or lower dosages can also be employed. Extraction of the monomer from the irradiated sample can be accomplished by the use of organic solvents such as dialkyl ethers, alcohols and ketones representative examples are diethylether, methanol, ethanol, acetone and methylethylketone, acetone being preferred. A process for producing thermochromic partially polymerized acetylenic compositions containing from about 0.1 to about 50 weight percent polymer is also a subject of this invention, and comprises thermal annealing a monomer of formula A , C where n is 2 or 4, D , E , or F or irradiating such monomer with ultraviolet radiation or gamma radiation up to a dosage of about 5 Mrads at room temperature or its equivalent at other temperatures. Thus, as described above, dosages larger than 5 Mrads are generally required at radiation temperatures below room temperature, and vice versa since the required dosage of gamma radiation will vary in general with the temperature at which the radiation is conducted.This is with the proviso that no more than about 5 Mrads or its equivalent of gamma radiation is used, since higher dosages can lead to highly polymerized materials which are not thermochromic. Ultraviolet radiation of short or long wavelength can be employed to produce the partially polymerized polyacetylenes. Radiation in the vicinity of 300 nm is most efficient for polymerization. Usually, radiation times of 30 minutes to 16 hours are sufficient to produce the partially polymerized polyacetylenes with a conventional lamp having an intensity of about 6000 microwatts at a distance of 15 381 mm from the source, or its equivalent. Thermal annealing can also be employed to produce the partially polymerized polyacetylenes and usually a temperature from 200 to 2000C is used.Higher temperatures below the melting point of the polymerizing phase are generally preferred over lower temperatures since shorter thermal annealing times are generally required in order to obtain a desired degree of polymerization. The infrared spectra of the polyacetylenes are essentially identical to those of the monomers, indicating that the polymers possess the same functionality as the monomer. Raman spectral evidence indicates that 1,4 addition reaction has occurred at the C C C C group within the monomer molecule. The Raman intense vibration, at about 2260 cm uC,C , which is characteristic of the CrC CrC functionality of the monomer, disappears and is replaced by Raman intense 1 vibrations between 1450 and 1540 cm and between 2060 and 2140 cm 1 in the polymer.X ray diffraction data indicate that the repeat dimension in the chain direction is approximately 4.9 A or a multiple thereof , which confirms the spectral evidence that the polymerization has proceeded by a 1,4 addition reaction. Hysteresis Effect of Polyacetylenes The polyacetylene compositions of this invention as listed in the Summary of the Invention, generally exhibit a hysteresis effect that is, after inducing the color change by heating above the thermochromic transition temperature, the material must be cooled below and, in some cases, substantially below said transition temperature, to a temperature designated the hysteresis transition temperature , whereupon the original color reappears. Other polyacetylenes, formed by polymerizing an acetylenic compound containing at least one CSC CIC group, also exhibit a hysteresis effect in certain instances. For example, as shown inFig. 1, the thermochromic transition temperature for poly 5,7 dodecadiyn 1,12 diol bis ethylurethane poly ETCD is about 1300C.This polyacetylene has to be cooled to a temperature of about 510C, its hysteresis transition temperature, before the original color of the polyacetylene is restored. In general, the hysteresis effect requires cooling to a temperature of about 30 to 800C below the thermochromic transition temperature in order to restore the original color.The hysteresis temperature is found to be dependent upon the compositions of individual polymers. For example, by contrast, the hysteresis transition temperature for poly 5,7 dodecadiyn 1,12 diol bis octadecylurethane is only about 30C below the thermochromic transition temperature. In certain embodiments of the thermochromic polyacetylene compositions of this invention, the polyacetylene possesses a hysteresis transition temperature which is at least about 50C below its thermochromic transition temperature. Such difference of at least 50C between the thermochromic transition temperature and hysteresis transition temperature is desirable for use in particular applications of temperature indication, indicia display devices and laser writing devices as discussed below. The hysteresis transition temperature can also be varied, in accordance with this invention, by the radiation dosage used to effect polymerization.Normally, a radiation dosage of at least about 15 to 50Mrads is required to produce a high monomer to polymer conversion. The higher dosages will generally produce higher monomer to polymer conversion. These larger dosages of radiation produce polyacetlenes having a lower hysteresis transition temperature than obtained using smaller dosages of radiation, even though unreacted monomer is extracted from the polyacetylene in each case. This effect is not understood but probably relates to the higher crystallographic perfection of the polyacetylene achieved at larger dosages of radiation. Thus, for poly ETCD above referred to, the thermochromic transition temperature is about 1300C, after exposure to radiation do sages effective to produce polymerization. If 100 Mrads are used to form the polymer, the hysteresis transition temperature is about 280C.If 50 Mrads are used, the hysteresis transition temperature is about 510C. If 25 Mrads are used, the hysteresis transition temperature is about 690C. Thus, higher dosages of radiation to produce the polyacetylene, producing higher percent conversions of monomer to polymer, will generally result in lower hysteresis transition temperatures and conversely, smaller dosages will generally result in higher hysteresis transition temperatures. This technique of varying the hysteresis transition temperature is a general one for thermochromic polyacetylenes that exhibit hysteresis in their thermochromatic behavior. A specific embodiment of the process for producing thermochromic polyacetylenes comprises irradiating a monomer of formula A , or 3 , or C where n is 3 with gamma radiation of a dosage of at least 15 Mrads at room temperature or its equivalent at other temperatures, whereby a relatively low hysteresis transition temperature is obtained.Temperature Indicator Device Utilizing ThermochromicPolyacetylenes Thermochrornic polyacetylene compositions are useful in temperature measuring devices. Such a device comprises a substrate having deposited thereon at least one thermochromic polyacetylene formed by polymerizing an acetylenic compound containing at least one CC CC group, which thermochromic polyacetylenic composition possesses a hysteresis transition temperature at least about 50C below its thermochrornic transition temperature. Representative examples of suitable polyacetylenes for use in temperature measuring devices include poly 5,7 dodecadiyn 1,12 diol bis ethylurethane , poly 5,7 dodecadiyn 1,12 diol bis n butylurethane , poly 3,5 octadiyn l,8 diol bis p methoxy phenylurethane , 5,7,11,13,17,19 tetracosahexayn 1,24 diol, and others as herein described. The thermochromic polyacetylene can be applied to the substrate mixed with a binder, lacquer or other suitable conventional material to adhere the crystals to the substrate.The thermochromic polyacetylene is chosen such that the polymer has a thermochromic transition temperature in the temperature region of interest, e.g. the 130 1400C region, where one could use poly 5,7 dode cadiyn l,l2 diol bis n octadecylurethane which undergoes a color change from brown black to orange at about 1300C. The substrate which is employed in the device will be chosen with reference to the intended use, and may be such as filter paper, cardboard, a flexible polymer such as polyethylene, polypropylene and the like. The hysteresis in thermochromic behavior of the polyacetylenes can be used to construct a reversible recording thermometer. Such a device would work in either of two different ways. First, if the hysteresis temperature is well below use temperature and the thermochromic transition temperature is in the temperature range to be measured, a color change corresponding to a transition from the low temperature phase to the high temperature phase records that the device has been exposed to a temperature. This response could be erased by cooling the device to below the hysteresis transition temperature.Second, if the thermochrornic transition temperature is well above device use temperature and the hysteresis transition temperature is in the measurement range, a color change corresponding to a transition from the high temperature phase to the low temperature phase indicates that the device has been cooled to below the hysteresis temperature. This reponse could be erased by heating to above the thermochromic transition temperature. For many purposes, in a recording thermometer in accordance with this invention the thermochromic polyacetylene possesses a thermochromic transition temperature of at least about 250C, and a hysteresis transition temperature which is at least about 50C below said thermochromic transition temperature. Given the thermochromic transition temperatures of the polyacetylenes of this invention, one skilled in the art will be able to devise suitable combinations of thermochromic polyacetylene, binder, adhesive, substrates and conventional materials to provide temperature measuring devices for use in desired applications. Indicia Display Device Utilizing Thermochronic Polyacetylenes The thermochromic polyacetylenes described above are also useful in devices for displaying indicia, comprising a substrate having deposited thereon at least one thermochromic polyacetylene, formed by polymerizing an acetylenic compound containing at least one C C CC group, in the form of a symbol. This device is similar in principle to the temperature indicator device described above, except that it displays indicia such as symbols comprising numerals, letters, words and the like and combinations thereof.The difference between this device and the temperature indicator device is that instead of being uniformly applied dispersed in a suitable medium containing a binder, lacquer or other suitable conventional vehicle onto a substrate, the thermochromic composition is painted on a substrate in the form of the particular desired symbol such as a number, letter, word or the like or combinations thereof.The thermochromic polyacetylene is again chosen such that the symbol will appear at a certain predetermined temperature determined by the thermochromic transition temperature of the polyacetylene and if it is desired to temporarily store the produced colored symbol, use is made of a thermochromic polyacetylene possessing a hysteresis transition temperature no greater than about 50C below its thermochromic transition temperature. The following example illustrates this device. Thermochromic polyacetylene XIV was incorporated into HALARe 300 a thermoplastic polychlorotrifluoroethylene polymer made by Allied ChemicalCorporation by milling 5 weight percent of the polyacetylene into the polymer at 2600C and then molding into a film at the same temperature. The resulting film was placed over a number, 1950C , written on a double side sticky tape. As the resulting film was black and opaque at room temperature, the number 1950C was invisible. The tape was then stuck on the hot plate. The hot plate was gradually heated to a temperature of 1950C. The Halar film turned orange color thereby allowing the number 195 C written on the underlying tape to become visible through the film.When the hot plate was cooled, the Halar film turned back to black and the number 195 C again became invisible. A number of heating and cooling cycles were run, with the same results. Other combinations of thermochromic polyacetylenes, binder, adhesive, substrate and conventional materials to use the device in a desired application will be obvious to one skilled in the art. Process for Laser Beam Recording of Images An improved process for laser beam recording of storable and erasable images is also a subject of this invention, wherein a thermochromic layer on a substrate is exposed to a laser beam thereby forming an image by the resulting localized heating of the thermochromic layer above its thermochromic transition temperature.The present improvement comprises forming said layer from at least one thermochromic composition formed by polymerizing an acetylenic compound containing at least one C C CEC group, especially such composition as herein described, possessing a hysteresis transition temperature which is at least about 50C below its thermochromic transition temperature and maintaining said layer, after exposure, between its thermochromic transition temperature and its hysteresis transition temperature to store the image while recording the same and thereafter cooling said layer below its hysteresis transition temperature to erase the image.Use of a composition having a hysteresis transition temperature 50C or more, preferably at least 100C, below its thermochromic transition temperature enables storing the image without danger of overheating while recording the image, or danger of accidentally erasing it by inadvertent cooling through a small temperature interval. As a specific example, a layer comprising poly ETCD above discussed under the heading Elysteresis Effect of Polyacetylenes formed by irradiating theETCD monomer at room temperature with 50 Mrads of y radiation, is exposed to a laser beam thereby forming an image which is red. The unexposed portion of the layer is brown black. By maintaining the temperature of the exposed layer between 1300C, the thermochromic transition temperature, and 51 C, the hysteresis transition temperature, the red image is stored. By lowering the temperature to below 51 C, the image is erased. If polyETCD made by irradiating monomer with 100 Mrads of gamma radiation is used, the temperature must be lowered to about 280C, in order to erase the image.Thus, by selecting a thermochromic polyacetylene with a desired thermochromic transition temperature, one skilled in the art will be able to vary the hysteresis transition temperature, by utilizing different dosages of radiation to fit desired applications. Preparation of the thermochromic polyacetylenes of the present invention and use thereof is illustrated by the following Examples, which should not be construed as being limitations on the scope and spirit of the invention. Parts are by weight unless otherwise indicated. EXAMPLE 1 Synthesis of Poly 5,7 dodecadiyn 1,12 diol bis n octadecylurethane l VI A mixture of 40 parts 5,7 dodecadiyn 1,12 diol, 215 parts 1,2 dimethoxyethane, 1 part dibutyltin di 2ethylhexanoate and 15 parts triethylamine was prepared and the resulting mixture was stirred virgorously. A solution of 133 parts n octadecylisocyanate in 44 parts of 1,2 dimethoxyethane was added dropwise over a period of 60 min. The reaction temperature rose to 420C from 180C within 50 min. and then subsided. After the addition, 80 parts of l,2 dimethoxyethane was then added to the reaction mixture and the mixture was stirred for an additional 2 hrs. To this mixture was added 1390 parts of heptane.The precipitate was collected by filtration, washed with petroleum ether bp 30 60 C and dried, giving 154.6 parts 99 yield of desired product, mp 18 119 C. Anal calculated C50H92N204, C, 76.47 H, 11.81 N, 3.578 found C, 75.57 H, 11.65 N, 3.43 . IR KBr pellet 3330 cm N H stretching , 2920 2850 cm C H stretching , 1680 cm 1 C O , 1530 cm 1 N H bending , 1470 cm 1 C H , 1260 cm 1 C O C stretching . Upon exposure to light, the crystals changed to blue, indicating the compound was solid state polymerizable.Solid State Polymerization. A Thermal Polymerization. About 0.39 parts of the monomer was melted and then cooled to room temperature. The resulting melt grown monomer was then heated at 110 C for 15 days, giving rise to a brownred product. Removal of unreacted monomer residue by extraction with 200 parts of hot dioxane provided 0.09 parts 24 conversion of orange red polymer. Upon heating fom room temperature to 1900C, this orange red polymer did not show any color change. Raman C C1 2111 2095 cm 1 and C C 1526 1483 1450 cm 1. B Gamma Ray Induced Polymerization. 1 About 0.28 parts of the monomer crystal lized from dioxane was irradiated with gamma rays at a dose rate of 1 Mrad hr to a dosage of 50 Mrad. The resulting black powder was extracted with 80 parts of hot dioxane to remove unreacted monomer residue, providing 0.18 parts 63 conversion of orange red polymer, m.p.163 175 C. IR KBr pellet 33000 cm 1 N H streching , 2900 2850 cm 1 C H stretching , 1680 cm 1 C O , 1520 cm 1 N H bending , 1460 1 C H , 1240 cm 1 C O C stretching . Raman C C 2106 cm tVc c 1527 1496 1451 cm 1. X ray 118 cyrstalline. Upon heating from room temperature to 1600C, the orange red poly mer did not show any color change. 2 About 0.67 parts of the monomer crystalized from l,2 dimethoxyethane heptane was melted and cooled to room temperature. The resulting melt grown monomer was subjected to 50 Mrad of y radiation at a dose rate of 1 Mrad hr. The resulting black material was extracted with 160 parts of hot dioxane to remove unreacted monomer residue, providing 0.51 parts 77 conversion of black brown polymer, m.p. 190 200 C. Anal calculated for C50H92N2O4 n C, 76.47 H, 11.81 T4, 3.57 found C, 75.20 , 75.14 I1, 11.60 1N, 3.50 , 3.41 . IR KBr pellet 3320 cm N H stretching, 2920 2850 cm 1 C H stretching , 1650 cm 1 1 1 C O , 1520 cm N H bending , 1460 cm C H bending , 1250 cm C O C bending . Raman v CC 2076 cm and C C 1453 cm 1. X ray 30 crystaline.Thermochromism. Tests for thermochromicity were carried visually on a temperature controlled hot stage. It was noted that the black brown polymer crystals obtained from the melt grown monomer evidenced dramatic, reversible color change. The polymer crystals changed to bright orange from black brown starting at about 1300C and completed the color change at about 1400C. The original color was obtained on cooling. This thermochromic cycle could be repeated many times with no apparent degradation. In addition, this material was also investigated using diffuse reflectance spectroscopy. At the thermochromic phase transition at about 1300 C, the absorption peak shifts from 615 nm to 520 nm. The hysteresis for this material was about 30C.Further investigation showed that another phase of the same polymer also changed from black brown to orange at 1300C, but upon further heating above 2000C, it showed a sharp change from orange to yellow. If the polymer was then cooled below 2000C, the orange color returned, but not the black brown color.The polymer was carried through the orange yellow transformation over many cycles with consistently vivid change in color through the transformation temperature. This thermochromic polymer was successfully incorporated into both high density polyethylene and a thermoplastic fluorocarbon polymer, sold under the trade designation Halar 300 by Allied Chemical Corporation, without modifying the thermochromic behavior. A film of a mixture of 5 thermochromic polymer in 95 Halar 300 exhibited a dramatic reversible color change from reddish orange to yellow over many cycles in the range 19C 2000C. However, if the film was heated overnight at 2300C, the yellow color became permanent. EXAMPLE 2Synthesis of Poly t5,7 dodecadiyn 1,12 diol bis n ode cylurethane V Following the procedure of Example 1, 7.0 parts of 5,7 dodecadiyn 1,12 diol and 17.4 parts of n dodecylisocyanate were reacted in the presence of 0.15 part dibutyltin di 2 ethylhexanoate, 2.2 parts of triethylamine and 173 parts of 1,2 dimethoxyethane.After stirring at room temperature for 16 hrs, 410 parts of heptane was added to the reaction mixture.The precipitate was collected by filtration, washed with heptane and dried, resulting in 20 parts 90 yield of powdery monomer, mp 115.8 116.6 C. IR KBr pellet 3300 cm N H stretching , 2910 2840 cm C H stretching , 16370 cm 1 C C , 1520 cm 1 N H bending , 1460 cm 1 C H bemding , 1260 1240 1220 cm 1 C O C . About 0.28 parts of the powdery monomer was subjected to 50 Mrad of y radiation at a dose rate of 1 Mrad hr. The resulting irradiated sample purple colored was extracted with 200 parts of dioxane at 400C for 1 hr to remove any non polymerized monomer, yielding 0.20 parts 72 conversion of dark purple polymer IIA , m.p. 1770 1800C. Anal. Calc d for C38H68N204 x C, 74.01 H, 11.11 N, 4.54 . Found C, 72.91 H, 10.95 N, 4.438. rR KBr pellet 3300 cm N H stretching , 2900 2840 cm C H stretching , 1680 cm C O , 1520 cm N H bending , 1460 cm C H bending , 1260 1240 cm C O C . Raman v CC 2075 cm and C C 1451 cm X ray anal 29 crystalline. Upon heating on a temperature controlled hot stage, the polymer crystals were observed to exhibit thermochromic behavior. At 1200C the polymer is purple and at 1600C it is red. In a separate run, 0.52 parts of melt grown monomer was exposed to 50 Mrad of y radiation at a dose rate of 1 Mrad hr. The resulting irradiated sample purple colored was extracted with 200 parts of dioxane at 500C for 1 hr to remove any unpolymerized monomer, providing 0.49 parts 94 conversion of dark purple polymer V , m.p. 1800 1900C. IR KBr pellet 3300 cm N H stretching , 2900 2840 cm cm N H stretching , 2900 2840 cm C H stretching , 1670 cm 1 C O , 1520cm 1 N H bending , 1460 cm 1 C H bending, 1250 cm 1 C O C . x ray anal, 35 crystalline. Raman C C 2076 2106 sh cm 1 and C C 1451 1490 sh cm . Anal.Calc d for C38H68N204 x C, 74.01 H, 11.11 N, 4.54 found C, 73.26 H, 11.12 N, 4.57 . Upon heating on a temperature controlled hot stage, the polymer crystals were observed to exhibit thermochromic phenomena between 1200 and 1600C similar to that described above. EXAMPLE 3 Synthesis of Poly 5,7 dodecadiyn 1,12 diol n octadecyl isopropylbisurethane VII A mixture of 40 parts of methanol, 0.2 part hydroxylamine hydrochloride, 0.2 part cuprous chloride, 18.3 parts 5 hexyn l ol isopropylurethane, 17 parts water and 14 parts 70 ethylamine was prepared and the contents were stirred and kept under a nitrogen blanket.About 12.5 parts 6 bromo 5 hexyn l ol were added dropwise to the mixture over a period of about 30 minutes at a temperature range of about 350 to 400C. An exotherm which developed during the addition was controlled with cooling. After the addition was completed, the contents were stirred at 350 to 370C for about 45 minutes, and 0.6 part potassium cyanide was added. The contents were mixed with 100 parts water and then extracted with ether. The ether extracts were dried and concentrated under reduced pressure yielding 23.5 parts of a viscous yellow liquid which was 5,7 dodecadiyn 1,12diol monoisopropylurethane. Following the general procedure of Example 1, the above formed dodecadiyn ol isopropylurethane was reacted with n octadecylisocyanate to form 5,7 dodecadiyn 1,12 diol n octadecyl isopropylbisurethane VII which had a melting point of l05 1080C. The material was recrystallized from acetone to yield a blue powder with melting point 110 llloC. The brown black powder, which was obtained by irradiating the n octadecyl isopropyl bisurethane of 5,7 dodecadiyn 1,12 diol with 50Mrads of tradiation, exhibited thermochromic behavior after the as polymerized material was extracted with acetone.The thermochrolaic behavior was evidenced on aFisher Johns melting point apparatus in which the thermochromic transition from a brown black to a dark red was observed at 180 2050C. This color change was reversible over many cycles observed for the polymer, EXAMPLES 4 19 Utilizing the general procedure of Example 1, the following thermochromic polydiacetylenes were prepared, as tabulated in Table III. The appropriate diols and isocyanates used to prepare the monomer are listed. In some instances the monomers obtained were crystallized, either from the melt or from solution in a solvent such as ethyl acetate or acetone hexane. The mode of polymerization was either by thermal annealing or by gamma radiation. Where gamma radiation was employed, the conditions used were a dosage of 50 Mrad delivered at a rate of 1 Mrad hr.Generally after polymerization, the product was extracted with boiling dioxane or acetone to remove unreacted monomer. Color of the polymer after extraction, percent conversion values, and melting points are also given for each thermochromic polymer in Table IV. Unless otherwise indicated, the Raman spectral bands for each polymer are in the region of about 9 C C 2060 to 2140 cm 1 and a C C 1450 to 1540 cm and unless otherwise indicated, the infrared spectrum of the monomer was substantially the same as for the resulting polymer. TABLE III Starting MaterialsEx. Polymer Diyndiol Isocyanate 4 I 5,7 dodecadiyn 1,12 diol isopropyl 5 11 n n butyl 6 IIIA n n hexyl 7 IIIB 8 IVA n octyl 9 IVB n n 10 X n m tolyl 11 XI p tolyl 12 XII n o chlorophenyl 13 XIII n 2 chloroethyl 14 XVI 4,6 decadiyn 1,10 diol m tolyl 15 XVII n m chlorophenyl 16 XVIII n p chlorophenyl 17 XIX 3,5 octadiyn 1,8 diol m tolyl 18 XX n m methoxyphenyl 19 XXI n p methoxyphenyl Polymers IIIA and IVA were not recrystallized IIIB andIVB were crystallized from the melt. TABLE IV Polymer Color Conversion m.p. OC Polymer I dark green gold 99 230 240 II n 96 230 250 IIIA n 64 201 203 IIIB 75 199 201 IVA green gold 61 196 199 IVB gold 90 194 199 V dark purple 94 180 190 VI brown black 77 190 200 VII brown black 88 195 208 Monomer X metallic green gold 98 110 XI green gold 97 163 XII n 96 102 XIII n 96 106 XVI n 93 93 XVII dark 100 95 XVII I green gold 98 150 XIX dark 92 136 XX dark 96 141 XXI dark 97 206 EXAMPLE 20 Synthesis of 5,7,11 dodecatriyn 1 ol precursor for C F4 diol and 5,7,11,13 octadecatetrayn 1,18 diol BD4 diol . The term, C F4 diol, refers to the diol used to make the urethane derivatives of formula C and diol of formula F where in each case n 4 and the term, BD4 diol, refers to the diol used to make the urethane derivatives of formulas B and D where in each case n 4. A mixture of 60 parts methanol, 0.15 part cuprous chloride, 40 parts 70 ethylamine in aqueous solution and 1.5 parts of hydroxylamine hydrochloride was prepared. After stirring the contents a short time, 10.9 parts 1,5 hexadiyn was added in one portion. The contents.were cooled to 150C., and 25.0 parts 6 bromo 5 hexyn 1 ol in 16 parts methanol were added dropwise over a period of 20 minutes while maintaining the temperature between 150 to 250C. After stirring for 4 hours the solvent was removed leaving a dark viscous layer. The triyn ol was extracted from the reaction mixture by adding 240 parts of petroleum ether 600 1100C boiling range to the reaction mixture, and heating and stirring and decanting the top layer of the mixture. The extraction was repeated twice, and the petroleum ether solutions were refrigerated at 260C.The product formed was a white viscous layer on the bottom of the petroleum ether which was isolated by decanting off the petroleum ether and which was subsequently used for forming the C F4 diol in Example 21. The tetrayn diol BD4 diol was isolated by adding 50 parts glacial acetic acid to the remaining portion of the reaction contents, heating, and adding 150 parts of hot water while stirring, after which the contents were refrigerated at 80C. The product BD4 diol, crystallized out, was isolated by filtering and then purified by dissolving in 280 parts hot xylene and refrigerating the xylene extract at 8 C. After crystallization and filtration, the product was washed with petroleum ether and dried in a vacuum oven in the dark, to yield 7.5 parts of final product BD4 diol , light in color and fluffy in texture. The melting point of the tetrayn diol BD4 diol was 118.80 to 121.40C. Example 21Preparation of 5,7,11,13,17,19 tetracosahexayn 1,24 diol C P4 diol . A mixture of 2 parts cuprous chloride, 12 parts methanol, and 4 parts N,M,N ,N tetramethylethylenediamine was prepared. To this mixture was added 5,7,11 dodecatriyn l ol, produced in Example 20, dissolved in 12 parts methanol over a period of 15 minutes while oxygen was moderately bubbled through the reaction contents. After 1 hour, oxygen flow was stopped and the methanol was distilled leaving a semi viscous residue.To this was added 100 parts of 3D1 hydrochloric acid while stirring, causing product to precipitate. It was collected by filtration, washed once with 25 parts 2N hydrochloric acid and several times with water. The solid was dissolved in 200 parts xylene and the solution was refrigerated at 80C. Subsequent crystallization and filtration yielded 6.0 parts of fluffy product, C F4 diol, which turns blue in daylight. The melting point of the material was 101.00 to 104.10C. Example 22Synthesis of 4,6,10,12 hexadecatetrayn 1,16 diol BD3 diol , and 4,6,10 undecatriyn l ol precursor for CF3 diol . The term BD3 diol refers to the diol used to make urethane derivatives of formulas B and D where in each case n 3, and the term CF3 diol refers to the diol used to make urethane derivatives of formula C and diol of formula F where in each case n 3. Following the general procedure of Example 20 but utilizing 5 bromo 4 pentyn 1 ol instead of 6 bromo 5 hexyn l ol , 4,6,10,12 hexadecatetrayn 1,16 diol BD3 diol was obtained having smelting point of 126.5 to 127.80C. Also produced from the reaction was 4,6,10 undecatriyn 1 ol, used to make CF3 diol in Example 23. Example 23Synthesis of 4,6,l0,12,16,18 docosahexayn 1r22 diol CF3 diol Following the general procedure of Example 21, the triyn ol produced in Example 22 was converted to 4,6,10,12,16,18 docosahexayn 1,22 diol CF3 diol .This material is also a thermochroic polyacetylene of this invention having the Roman numeral LI, and is the thermochromic polymer of formula F where n 3. The melting point of the desired hexayn diol LI was 189.8 to 191.40C. Example 24 Synthesis of 3,5,9,11 tetradecatetrayn 1,14 diol BD2 diol and 3,5,9 decatriyn l ol precursor for C F2 diol The term BD2 diol refers to the diol used to make urethane derivatives of formulas B and D where in each case n 2 and the term C F2 diol refers to the diol used to make urethane derivatives of formula C , and diol of formula F where in each case n 2. Following the procedure of Example 20 but utilizing 4 bromo 3 butyn l ol instead of 6 bromo 5hexyn l ol, the above 3,5,9,11 tetradecatetrayn 1,14 diol BD2 diol was prepared yielding a white polymer which turns red purple in daylight. The melting point was 151.2 152.20C. Also produced from the reaction was 3,5,9 decatriyn l ol which crystallized as white flakes m.p. 50.2 50.60C, which change to red slowly. This product was used to make CF2 diol inExample 25. Example 25Synthesis of 3,5,9,11,15,17 eicosahexayn 1,20 diol C F2 diol . Following the general procedure of Example 23, the triyn ol produced in Example 24 was converted to 3,5,9,11,15,17 eicosahexayn 1,20 diol C F2 diol . This material is also a thermochromic polyacetylene of this invention having the assigned Roman numeral LII and is the thermochromic polymer of formula F where n 2.No melting point of the product was obtained since it polymerized during heating. The white powdery polymer LII which was obtained from the reaction slowly turns blue purple in daylight. Example 26Synthesis of poly 5,7,11,13 octadecatetrayn 1,18 diol hexamethylene diurethane XXII . In a reaction vessel 1.35 parts BD4 diol produced from Example 20 was reacted with 0.84 parts hexamethylene diisocyanate in 70 parts tetrahydrofuran at room temperature for 2 hours in the presence of a catalytic amount of DBTE and TEA identified under the heading Synthesis of Thermochromic Polyacetylenes , above . The desired product, XXII, was collected by filtration, washed, and vacuum dried resulting in 1.9 parts of a fine fluffy off white powder, melting point 160.6 to 165.40C. Examples 27 28 Following the general procedure of Exmple 26,XXIII was prepared from BD3 diol and hexamethylene diisocyanate to yield a light tan product having a melting point of 165.8 to 168.80C and XXIV was prepared from BD2 diol and hexamethylene diisocyanate yielding a while fluffy material which did not melt below 3000C. Example 29Synthesis of poly 5,7,11,13,17,19 tetracosahexayn l,24 diol hexamethylene diurethane XXV . In a reaction vessel 1.73 parts C F4 diol produced from Example 21 was reacted with 0.84 parts hexamethylene diisocyanate in 70 parts of tetrahydrofuran at room temperature for 4 hours in the presence of a catalytic amount of DBTEand TEA see Example 26 .The product was precipitated with heptane and filtered.After washing several times with heptane, it was vacuum dried to yield 1.7 parts of XXV, a light tan fluffy material, melting point, 161.3 to 165.10C. Examples 30 31 Following the general procedure in Example 29,XXVI was prepared from CF3 diol and hexamethylene diisocyanate yielding a white product which turns blue slowly, which did not melt up to 3000 C and XXVII was prepared from C F2 diol and hexamethylene diisocyanate which did not melt up to 3000C. The compositions XXII to XXVII, exclud ing compositions XXV and XXVII, in Examples 26 31 were irradi ated with 15 Mrads of gamma radiation or long wave ultraviolet radiation for times of 30 minutes to 16 hours at a distance of 10 254 mm from the source, wherein the UV source had an intensity of about 6000 microwatts at 15 381 mm , followed by extraction with acetone to yield the thermochromic polyacetylene network polymers of this invention. Compositions XXV and XXVI I were irradiated with the ultraviolet source described above for shorter times producing thermochromic partially polymerized polyacetylenes. The fully polymerized materials were non thermochromic. Examples 32 44 The following Examples illustrate partially polymerized acetylenic compounds which are formed by reacting a diyn diol with an isocyanate as described in Examples 1 and 2, and then polymerizing the resulting monomer crystallized from acetone hexane by thermal annealing at room temperature for about 2 3 months. The resulting partially polymerized acetylenic compounds were not extracted following thermal annealing.In general, the percent conversion of the polymers in the polymerizations is about 0.1 to about 10 . Melting points of the starting monomers are included in theExamples where appropriate. TABLE VPartiallyPolymerizedAcetylenic m.p.Compounds Diol Isocyanate OC XXVII I 5,7 dodecadiyn p bromophenyl 155 1,12 diolXXIX 4,6 decadiyn n butyl 110 1,10 diol XXX n n hexyl 112XXXI n o methoxyphenyl 117XXXII n o tolyl 254XXXIII 3,5 octadiyn 1,8 diol ethyl XXXIV n n butyl 156XXXV n n hexyl 149 XXXVI I n m chlorophenyl 143XXXVIII 2,4 hexadiyn 1,6 diol n hexyl 84 Synthesis of 5,7,11,13 octadecatetrayn 1,18 diol bismethylurethane XLI . Following the general procedure of Example 1, 1.3 parts BD4 diol, 40 parts tetrahydrofuran, 1.14 parts of methyl isocyanate, 0.2 parts DBTE, 4 parts TEA see Example 26 were mixed together and allowed to react at room temperature for 1.5 hours. The product was precipitated by the addition of 175 parts n hexane and was filtered and washed several times with additional n hexane. After drying, 1.8 parts of product, XLI, was obtained, giving a conversion of 93.8 of light tan fluffy material. The product was dissolved in 40 parts hot acetone followed by 40 parts hot petroleum ether and refrigerated at 8 C to crystallize it. The isolated product was a light tan fluffy powder having a melting point 165.40 to 166.60C. Examples 46 48 Following the above general procedure ofExample 45, the following urethanes were prepared utilizing the designated diol and isocyanate starting materials. TABLE VI No. Diol Isocyanate Melting Point OC XLII BD4 Ethyl 152.2 to 153.9XLIII BD3 Methyl 173.0 to 174.1XLIV BD2 Ethyl 208.0 to 209.1 Example 49 Synthesis of 5,7,11,13,17,19 tetracosahexayn 1,24 diol bisethylurethane XLV Following the general procedure of Example 1, 1.3 parts C F4 diol, 40 parts tetrahydrofuran, 1.42 parts ethyl isocyanate, 0.2 parts DBTE, and 4 parts TEA seeExample 26 were mixed together and allowed to react at room temperature for 1.5 hours. The product was precip itated by the addition of 175 parts n hexane and was quickly filtered and washed several times with additonal n hexane. After drying, 2.3 parts of product XLV was obtained representing a 95.8 conversion.The product had a fluffy texture it changes blue very rapidly when exposed to daylight. The product was recrystallized by dissolving in 40 parts hot acetone followed by 20 parts hot petroleum ether. The precipitate turned blue during crystallization at about 80C. The melting point of the material was 146.40 to 148.80C. Examples 50 to 54 Following the general procedure of Example 49, the following urethanes were prepared in like manner. TABLE VIICompound Diol Isocyanate Melting Point OC XLVI CF3 Methyl 202.6 to 204.2 XLVII n Ethyl 196.9 to 200.1XLVIII C F2 Methyl Does not meltXLIX Ethyl n n n L n Phenyl No melting point TABLE VIII The following Table VIII lists the thermochromic polyacetylenes of this invention, by Roman numeral as listed in Table II, illustrating the individual transition temperature and the reversible color change occurring at that temperature. In general, the thermochrornic transition can be repeated many times with no apparent degradation of the crystals. These tests were carried out visually on a Fisher Johns melting point apparatus. TABLE VIII The rmochromic PolyacetyleneAccording toRoman Numeral Temp. of in Table II Transition Color Change I 1500 1600C gold to red II 125 135 gold to red III 1950C gold to red IVA 1900 1950C dark gold to red IVB 1200 1700C gold to red V 1200 1600C purple to red VI 130 140 C black brown to bright orange VII 1800 1850C black brown to red VIII 1350C green gold to red IXA 110 C green gold to red IXB 137 C red to yellow X 1750 1800C green gold to red XI 1800 2000C green gold to red XII 1650 1750C green gold to red XIII 137 150 C green gold to red XIV 195 C green gold to orange XV 185 C green gold to red orange XVI 175 180 C green gold to red XVII 170 180 C dark gold to red XVI II 2070 2270C green gold to red brown XIX 185 195 C dark gold to red XX 1950 2050C dark gold to red XXI 185 195 C dark gold to red XXII 10 115 C blue purple to brown red XXII I 950 1000C red brown to orange brown Alkoxy carbonylmethyl diacetylenes of Formula A known per se but not for thermochromic uses CompoundsVIII and XIV are ethoxy and IX and XV are n butoxy carbonylmethyl n is 4 for VIII and IX and 3 for XIV. and XV. See Patel et al. cited above under Description of the Prior Art. TABLE VIII Continued ThermochromicPolyacetyleneAccording toRoman Numeral Temp. of in Table II Transition Color Change XXIV 1300 1350C red brown to orange brown XXV 950 1000C blue to red XXVI l000 l050C blue purple to red purple XXVI I 550 600C blue red to orange red XLI 950 1000C blue to red purple XLII 650 700C blue purple to red purple XLIII 1000 1050C blue to red purple XLIV 600 650C blue purple to red purple XLV 850 900C blue to red purple XLVI 850 900C blue purple to red purple XLVI I 650 700C blue purple to red purple XLVIII 750 800C blue to red purple XLIX 650 700C blue purple to red purple L 1150 1200C blue to red LI 550 600C blue to red LII 650 700C blue purple to red Example 55 The partially polymerized acetylenic compounds XXVI II to XXXVII I were tested for thermochromic behavior as follows Each partially polymerized compound was annealed in a test tube at the following temperatures 1800C liquid nitrogen , 780C dry ice acetone mixture , 250C room temperature . The colors of the crystals were compared with color tabs from the MunsellBook of Color MacBeth Color and Photography Division,Kollmargen Corporation, Newburgh, New York, 1973 .The following table shows hue symbol numbers for the partially polymerized acetylenic compounds at different temperatures TABLE IX MUNSELL COLOR CODEPolymer 250C Liquid N2 Dry Ice 700CXXVIII 2.5 R 8 6 10 PB 4 8 10 PB 7 10 10 R 7 10XXIX 7.5 PB 5 8 7.5 PB 6 10 2.5 P 6 6 7.5 PB 5 8XXX 7.5 PB 4 10 7.5 PB 3 10 10 P 5 12 7.5 PB 4 10XXXI 2.5 RP 7 10 7.5 1RB 6 8 5 P 7 8 2.5 RP 7 10 XXXII 5 P 7 8 10 PB 7 8 10 PB 7 8 7.5 P 7 8XXXIII 5 PB 6 8 2.5 PB 7 6 5 PB 6 8 7.5 PB 6 10XXXIV 2.5 RP 7 10 5 P 6 6 7.5 P 7 8 2.5 RP 7 8XXXV 10 PB 6 8 2.5 P 8 4 5 P 7 8 2.5 RP 7 8 XXXVI 7.5 R 4 12 7.5 R 3 6 7.5 R 4 6 7.5 R 5 12XXXVII 7.5 PP 3 4 7.6 PB 2.5 4 5 P 3 4 7.5 RP 4 8XXXVIII 7.5 RP 3 6 2.5 P 2.5 4 2.5 PP 3 4 7.5 RP 4 8 Example 56 The following thermochromic polyacetylenes were molded into films which were strong and pliable and were useful as temperature indicator devices. The polyacetylenes are also capable ofbeing incorporated into thermoplastic polymers, such as Halar 300 and useful as temperature indicators. A. Thermochromic polydiacetylene XIV wassuccessfully incorporated into a film of Halar 300, made by Allied Chemical Corporation , by molding at 2600C. The film containing 5 of the polydiacetylene, was black in color. It turned orange color at 1960C upon heating and black upon cooling to room temperature. The polydiacetylene XIV was molded at 2100C to obtain a film about 3 mil thick. The polydiacetylene film showed a green gold to orange color transition at 1960C. The film was reasonably strong the strength was comparable to that of polyethylene film and was pliable. B. Thermochromic polydiacetylene XV was molded at 2000C into a thin about 3 mil film. The film was green gold in color at room temperature. Upon heating, the film turned red orange at about 1850C. The film turned metallic green gold upon cooling. The film was reasonably strong strength comparable to that of polyethylene and was pliable. The polydiacetylene XV was incorporated intoHalar 300, by molding at 2600C. The resulting Halar film containing 5 of the polydiacetylene was black in color. It turned orange at 1850C upon heating and reverted to black upon cooling to room temperature. C. The test for thermochromism of polydiacetylene VIII was carried out visually on a Fisher Johns melting point apparatus. The polymer crystals turned red orange from metallic green gold at 1350 C. The crystals turned metallic green gold with a slight reddish tint upon cooling to room temperature. Thermochromic polydiacetylene VIII was molded into film about 3 mil thick at 1500C. The film was pliable and dark red in color at room temperature. Upon heating, the film turned light pink at 1350C. Upon cooling, it turned back to dark red. The thermochromic polydiacetylene VIII was incorporated into Halar 300, by molding at 2600C. The resulting Halar film containing 5 of the polydiacetylene was red in color. It turned orange at 1350C upon heating and turned red upon cooling to room temperature. D. The test for thermochromism of the polydiacetylene IX was also carried out visually on aFisher Johns melting point apparatus. The polymer crystals turned red from metallic green gold at 110C and turned yellow from red at about 1370C. Upon cooling to room temperature, the crystals turned dark red with some green gold color tint. The thermochromic polydiacetylene IX was molded into film about 3 mil thick at 1500C. The film was pliable and dark red in color. Upon heating, the film turned light pink at 110 C. Upon cooling, it turned dark red. The thermochromic polydiacetylene IX was incorporated into Halar 300, to form a polymeric film by molding at 2600C. The resulting Halar film containing 5 of the polydiacetylene was red in color. It turned light orange at 1100C upon heating and turned red on cooling to room temperature. The thermochromic polydiacetylene IX was highly soluble in organic polar solvents such as acetone, tetrahydrofuran and chloroform. The polyd iacetylene was dissolved in acetone 1 g in 100 mL . A very thin coating red in color of the polydiacetylene was obtained by dipping a glass slide in the solution or by spreading the solution on a polyethylene film and allowing the solvent to evaporate. The coating turned orange at 115QC and yellow at 1350C.