# Lift fixture.

## Abstract
A lift fixture 10 for holding and centering a workpiece 93 includes a handling ring 16 defined by a yoke 17 and a clamp slide 20 mounted on the yoke, means 48 for closing the clamp slide 20 , a support apparatus 12 for positioning the handling ring 16 , and a plurality of angularly spaced holding mechanisms 33,34,40,41 for gripping the work piece 93 . The holding mechanisms 33,34,40,41 are mov ably mounted to the handling ring 16 so as to move relative to the ring along a line generally tangent to the workpiece 93 . The holding mechanisms 33,34,40,41 are biased to a centered position, as by springs 87,88 , so that when the workpiece 93 is lifted, it is urged to a centered position within the ring 16 .

## Claims
Claims 1.. A lift fixture 10 for holding and , centering a workpiece 93 comprising a yoke 17 having arms 22,23 on either side of the yoke longitudinal axis and adapted to be positioned about the workpiece 93 a clamp 20 mounted between the yoke arms 22,23 means 48 for driving said clamp 20 between an open position and a closed position adjacent the workpiece 93 a plurality of angularly spaced holding mechanisms 33,34,40,41 adapted to grip the workpiece 93 , a portion of said holding mechanisms being carried by said yoke 17 and a portion being carried by said clamp 20 means 57 for movably mounting each of said holding mechanisms 33,34,40,41 to one of said yoke 17 and clamp 20 to permit motion of said holding mechanisms 33,34,40,41 relative to said yoke 17 and clamp 20 along a line generally parallel to a tangent line of said workpiece 93 and means 87,88 for biasing each of said holding mechanisms 33,34,40,41 to a preselected centered position relative to its respective mounting means 57 , whereby gripping and lifting of the workpiece 93 by the holding mechanisms 33,34,40,41 permits said biasing means 87,88 to equalize the forces acting between said holding mechanisms 33,34,40,41 through the workpiece 93 thereby centering the workpiece 93 within the lift fixture 10 . 2. The lift fixture 10 of claim 1 wherein said holding mechanisms 33,34,40,41 comprise a pad assembly 67 and a carriage assembly 69 for sup porting said pad assembly 67 relative to tne lift fixture 10 . 3. The lift fixture 10 of claim 2 further including means 75,76,81,82 for pivotally mounting said pad assembly 67 to said carriage assembly 69 . 4. The lift fixture 10 of claim 2 wherein said holding mechanisms 33,34,40,41 are positioned on a common plane extending between said yoke arms 22,23 . 5. The lift fixture 10 of claim 4 further including means 75,76,81,82 for mounting said pad assembly 67 to said carriage assembly 69 for pivotal motion about an axis generally perpendicular to said plane. 6. The lift fixture 10 of claim 1 wherein said mounting means 57 includes a rod 84 for each of said holding mechanisms 33,34,40,41 fixed to one of said yoke 17 and clamp 20 and means 81 on each of said holding mechanisms 33,34,40,41 for engaging said rod 84 and permitting linear movement therealong. 7. The lift fixture 10 of claim 1 wherein said biasing means 87,88 is a pair of springs 87, 88 associated with each of said holding mechanisms 33,34,40,41 , each of said springs 87,88 biasing said holding mechanisms 33,34,40,41 in opposite directions. 8. The lift fixture 10 of claim 1 wherein said holding mechanisms 33,34,40,41 are mounted at an angle of approximately 450 relative to said yoke longitudinal axis. 9. The lift fixture 10 of claim 8 wherein the number of holding mechanisms 33,34,40,41 is four, a pair being carried by each of said yoke 17 and said clamp 20 . 10. The lift fixture 10 of claim 9 wherein each of said holding mechanisms 33,34,40,41 is oriented at an angle of approximately 900 relative to an adjacent holding mechanism 33,34,40,41 .

## Description
Description Lift FixtureTechnical Field This invention relates generally to a material handling device for lifting and locating a workpiece and, more particularly, to such a device which grips and centers the workpiece without scuffing.Background Art Grawey U. S. Patent No. 4,053,272, entitled Apparatus and Method for Forming a TubeArticle on a Core , issued October 11, 1977 and assigned to the assignee of the present invention, discloses an exemplary apparatus for forming on a disintegrable sand core a tube article made from uncured elastomeric material, such as rubber. This sand core,during the manufacturing operation, must be lifted from a transporting pallet or conveyor, moved to and from the apparatus and turned so that layers of rubber material may be applied to both sides of the core. Of particular importance in the manufacture of such tubes or tires is the proper formation of the oval, toroidal sand core in preparation for the wrapping of material thereabout. Obviously, handling and wrapping of the core at all stages of manufacture must be done with great care and accuracy to ensure that an unwrapped or partially wrapped core will have a properly prepared surface for further wrapping so that the final manufactured tire will be free from blemishes and perfectly balanced. Thus, any material handling mechanism used to move or turn the core cannot damage or scuff the core. Otherwise, the finished tube or tire will be out of round or defective. Yet, sufficient force must be applied by the handling mechanism to lift and locate the core. Heretofore, material handling mechanisms employed for this purpose have not been entirely satisfactory in the automated production of these tubes. No mechanism has beer found which is capable of use with cores of various size, which does not scuff the core, and which allows exact positioning of the core at a work station. The present invention is directed to overcoming one or more of the problems as set forth above.Disclosure of Invention To overcome the problems associated with prior art constructions, a lift fixture is provided with self centering holding mechanisms including pads which are movable relative to the lift fixture tangentially with respect to the surface of a workpiece that may be of varying size. When the workpiece is lifted, the action of the centering means automatically shifts the workpiece to the center of the lift fixture without undesirable scuffing of the surface in contact with the holding pads. In accordance with the invention, the lift fixture includes a yoke and a movably mounted clamp slide which extends between the yoke arms so as to define a handling ring, the clamp slide being driven to a closed position by a fluid motor. The lift fixture has three or more angularly spaced pads, a portion of which are movably mounted on the yoke and a portion of which are mounted on the clamp slide. In an exemplary embodiment of the invention, the holding devices have resilient pads which are carried on carriages which, in turn, are mounted for linear movement on the yoke and clamp slide. The resilient pads make intimate contact with and minimize scuffing of the core as the holding mechanisms are moved against the core. In one aspect of the invention, the carriages engage and move along a linear slide rod and the resilient pads are pivotally mounted to the carriage.Preloaded springs acting on opposite sides of the carriage maintain the carriage in a centered position on the rod and bias the holding aevice toward a workpiece centering position when the workpiece floats between the self centering pads. In another aspect of the invention, the lift fixture is mounted on a support apparatus having horizontal, vertical, swinging, and rotational movement such that the lift fixture can be moved to any desired position. As a result, the lift fixture can transport the workpiece to any desired location or turn the workpiece over.Brief Description of Drawings Fig. 1 is a top view partially in section of an exemplary lift fixture constructed in accordance with the present invention Fig. 2 is an elevational view of the lift fixture of Fig. 1 Fig. 3 is an enlarged, fragmentary elevational view of a holding mechanism shown spaced from the workpiece Fig. 4 is an enlarged, fragmentary elevational view similar to Fig. 3, but showing the holding mechanism in contact with the workpiece Fig. 5 is an exploded, perspective view partially in section of one of the holding mechanisms Fig. 6 is a bottom view of the holding mechanism taken along line 6 6 of Fig. 5 Fig. 7 is an enlarged cross sectional view taken along the lines 7 7 of Fig. 6 and Fig. 8 is a schematic view of an alternative embodiment of the lift fixture utilizing three holding mechanisms.Best Mode for Carrying Out the Invention In the exemplary embodiment of the invention shown in Figs. 1 through 7, a lift fixture, generally designated 10, is carried by a support apparatus, broadly designated 12. The support apparatus 12 is adapted to position the lift fixture 10 in desired location and orientation. The support apparatus 12 includes a robot, a part of which is shown and designated 13, capable of horizontal, vertical, and swinging motion, and a rotary actuator 14 for rotating the lift fixture 10 one hundred eighty degrees. The lift fixture 10 is seen to include a handling ring 16 comprising a horseshoe shaped yoke 17 having a base portion 18 fixed to the support apparatus 12 and a clamp slide 20 mounted to the yoke 17 and extending between.the arm portions 22 and 23 of the yoke 17.The arm portions 22 and 23 are spaced on either side on the central longidutinal axis of the yoke 17. The yoke 17 as shown in Fig. 2 comprises an upper plate 25, a lower plate 26, and various crosspieces 28,29,30 and 31 as shown in Fig. 1 , which are secured between the upper and lower plates 25 and 26 and which maintain the plates in spaced relation and provide structural rigidity. Mounted to the yoke 17 at an angle of ninety degrees relative to each other and at an angle of forty five degrees relative to the yoke longitudinal axis are a pair of holding mechanisms 33 and 34. The clamp slide 20 comprises an upper plate 36, a lower plate 37, and a crosspiece 38. Mounted to the clamp slide 20 at ninety degrees relative to each other and at an angle of forty five degrees relative to the yoke longitudinal axis are a pair of holding mechanisms 40 and 41. Each end 43 of the clamp slide 20 is mounted for linear movement via bushings 44 to a clamp slide shaft 46 carried in each of the yoke arm portions 22 and 23. Movement of the clamp slide 20 along the yoke longitudinal axis, as indicated by arrow 47, is effected by a fluid clamping motor, or jack 48, located in each of the yoke arm portions 22 and 23. Each of the jacks 48 has an air cylinder 49 secured to the yoke crosspiece 29 and a rod 50 having a bifurcated end 52 pivotally connected to a clamp slide. bracket 53, the bracket 53 extending through a slot 55 defined in the yoke crosspiece 30. Each of the holding mechanisms 33,34,40 and 41 is movably mounted to its respective yoke 17 or clamp slide 20 by way of a mounting assembly 57.As shown herein, the holding mechanisms 33,34,40 and 41 are mounted on a common plane on the inside of the handling ring 16. Each mounting assembly 57 includes a base plate 58 fixed, as by bolts not shown , to the yoke crosspiece 28 Fig. 1 or to the clamp crosspiece 38 Figs. 3 and 4 , a pair of spaced apart, upright end plates 60 and 61, and a pair of spaced, parallel guide shafts 63 and 64 Figs.5 and 6 extending between the end plates 60 and 61 and held in place by retaining rings 66. The guide shafts 63 and 64 of each of the holding mechanisms is oriented at an angle of forty five degrees relative to the yoke longitudinal axis. Each of the holding devices 33,34,40 and 41 comprises a pad subassembly 67 and a carriage subassembly 69. The pad subassembly 67 includes a flat plate 70 Fig. 5 , a deformable soft rubber pad 72 on the topside of the plate 70 enclosed by a suitable cover bonded to the plate 70, and a pair of pin brackets 75 and 76 depending from the underside of the plate 70. The carriage subassembly 69 includes a flat plate 78, four sleeves, each designated 79, fixed to the bottom of the plate 78, and a centrally located pivot block 81 extending above and below the plate 78. The sleeves 79 are arranged in co linear pairs and slide linearly along the guide shafts 63 and 64 carried by the end plates 60,61 to mount the carriage subassembly 69 on the mounting assembly 57. Linear ball bearings not shown in the sleeves 79, with suitable retainers and seals, reduce friction between the shafts 63,64 and the sleeves 79. The upper end of the pivot block 81 is connected between the pin brackets 75 and 76 by a pivot pin 82 so as to mount the pad subassembly 67 to the carriage subassembly 69 and mounting assembly 57. A rod 84, which is also a part of the mounting assembly, extends through the pivot block 81 and is centrally fixed by retaining rings 85 between the end plates 60 and 61 of the mounting assembly 57 parallel to the guide shafts 63 and 64. The axis of the rod 84 is transverse to the axis of the pin 82.Preloaded springs 87 and 88 coiled about the rod 84, one on opposite sides of the pivot block 81, provide a spring force acting between the end plates 60 and 61 and the washers 90 and 91 located on either side of the pivot block 81. The springs 87 and 88 bias each of the pad subassemblies 67 and carriage subassemblies 69 of the holding mechanisms 33,34,40 and 41 to a longitudinally centered position relative to its respective mounting assembly 57. In operation, the lift fixture 10 is positioned over the workpiece 93, as seen in Figs.2 and 3, and is lowered onto the workpiece 93 with the clamp slide 20 in open position as seen in phantom in Fig. 1. At this point, the lift fixture 10 is not in contact with the workplece 93. The robot 13 then maneuvers tne lift fixture 10 to, center the workpiece 93 as close as possible between the yoke arms 22 and 23. The robot 13 then slowly drives the yoke 17 toward the workpiece 93 along the mid circumferential plane of tne workpiece until the so called stationary holding mechanisms 33 and 34 contact the circumferential surface of the workpiece 93 with a measurable predetermined force.The holding mechanisms 33 and 34 operate in a manner similar to that described below with respect to the holding device 41. Thereafter, the clamp slide 20 is moved by the jack 48 from its open position along the yoke longitudinal axis to a closed position until the so called moving holding mechanisms 40 and 41 make contact with the workpiece 93. When the clamp slide holding mechanisms 40 and 41 contact tne workpiece 93, the pad subassemblies 67 will not move along the circumferential surface of the workpiece 93. However, as shown in Fig. 4, the pad subassembly 67 will pivot clockwise, as shown by arrows 95, to align itself tangentially witn the workpiece outer surface. AS the clamp slide 20 continues to close toward the left, as depicted by arrows 96 in Figs.3 and 4, the mounting assemblies 57, which are fixed to the clamp slide 20, also move leftward, but the holding mechanism will not move to any great degree with respect to the workpiece. instead, the holding mechanism 41 will move rightward relative to the leftward moving mounting assembly 57 as shown by arrows 98 along a line generally parallel, to the tangent line of the workpiece at the point of pad contact. This relative movement is against the biasing force generated by the rightmost spring 88. When the pressure applied to the workpiece through the holding mechanisms 33,34,40 and 41 is sufficient, retraction of the jacks 48 is terminated and the workpiece is lifted from the table surface 99 by the robot 13. Once the workpiece 93 is elevated from the table, the workpiece will be retained within the handling ring 16. The holding mechanism springs 87 and 88 acting through the workpiece 93 will equalize pressure between the respective matched springs 87,88 of teach spring pair to bias the workpiece to a centered position along the longitudinal axis of the yoke. The lateral center of the workpiece 93 is known from the amount of clamp slide closure. In Fig. 8, the arrangement of three holding mechanisms 100 is shown schematically in a lift fixture of alternative construction. Herein, the holding mechanisms 100, as indicated by arcuate arrows 102, are located one hundred twenty degrees, plus minus five degrees relative to each other with one lying on the yoke longitudinal axis passing through an actuator 114 of robot 113. As indicated by arrows 103, the holding mechanisms 100 have pads 104 movable tangentially relative to the workpiece 93.When the workpiece 93 is lifted, the holding mechanisms 100 provide pressure distributed equally to the workpiece 93 to center the workpiece.Industrial Applicability The lift fixture described herein may be applied in the manufacture of large tire carcasses for tractors and the like, but is not limited to that application. Typically, this type of tire carcass has an outside diameter of fifty to sixtyfour inches or more and weighs five hundred pounds or more. Thus, it can be seen that the lift fixture can be employed with a wide range of core sizes. In this application, the springs 87 and 88 have a preload of approximately fifty pounds. The holding mechanisms can move linearly about one inch in either direction relative to their centered position with the pad subassembly plates 70 being spaced about five eighths of an inch from the carriage subassembly plates 78 to permit a small degree of pivotability therebetween. With a five hundred pound core, the pads will deflect about one fourth of an inch under a one hundred pound load. The tacky carcass surface will not slide relative to the pad surface. This lack of relative movement minimizes or eliminates scuffing of the core surface by the holding pads when the core is engaged and lifted during a transporting or centering operation. Other aspects, objects and advantages of this invention can be obtained from a study of the drawings, the disclosure and the appended claims. The invention may be summarized as follows 1. A lift fixture 10 for holding end centering a workpiece 93 comprising a yoke 17 having arms 22,23 on either side of the yoke longitudinal axis and adapted to be positioned about the workpiece 93 a clamp 20 mounted between the yoke arms 22,23 means 48 for driving said clamp 20 between an open position and a closed position adjacent the workpiece 93 a plurality of angularly spaced holding mechanisms 33,34,40,41 adapted to grip the workpiece 93 , a portion of said holding mechanisms being carried by said yoke 17 and a portion being carried by said clamp 20 means 57 for movably mounting each of said holding mechanisms 33,34,40,41 to one of said yoke 17 and clamp 20 to permit motion of said holding mechanisms 33,34,40,41 relative to said yoke 17 and clamp 20 along a line generally parallel to a tangent line of said workpiece 93 and means 87,88 for biasing each of said holding mechanisms 33,34,40,41 to a preselected centered position relative to its respective mounting means 57 , whereby gripping and lifting of the workpiece 93 by the holding mechanisms 33,34,40,41 permits said biasing means 87,88 to equalize the forces acting between said holding mechanisms 33,34,40,41 through the workpiece 93 thereby centering the workpiece 93 within the lift fixture 10 . 2. The lift fixture 10 of item 1 wherein said holding mechanisms 33,34,40,41 comprise a pad assembly 67 and a carriage assembly 69 for,supW porting said pad assembly 67 relative to tne lift fixture 10 . 3. The lift fixture 10 of item 2 further including means 75,76,81,82 for pivotally mounting said pad assembly 67 to said carriage assembly 69 . 4. The lift fixture 10 of item 2 wherein said holding mechanisms 33,34,40,41 are positioned on a common plane extending between said yoke arms 22,23 . 5. The lift fixture 10 of item 4 further including means 75,76,81,82 for mounting said pad assembly 67 to said carriage assembly 69 for pivotal motion about an axis generally perpendicular to said plane. 6. The lift fixture 10 of item 1 wherein said mounting means 57 includes a rod 84 for each of said holding mechanisms 33,34,40,41 fixed to one of said yoke 17 and clamp 20 and means 81 on each of said holding mechanisms 33,34,40,41 for engaging said rod 84 and permitting linear movement therealong. 7. The lift fixture 10 of item 1 wherein said biasing means 87,88 is a pair of springs 87, 88 associated with each of said holding mechanisms 33,34,40,41 , each of said springs 87,88 biasing said holding mechanisms 33,34,40,41 in opposite directions. 8. The lift fixture 10 of item 1 wherein said holding mechanisms 33,34,40,411 are mounted at an angle of approximately 450 relative to said yoke longitudinal axis. 9. The lift fixture 10 of item 8 wherein the number of holding mechanisms 33,34,40,41 is four, a pair being carried by each of said yoke 17 and said clamp 20 . 10. The lift fixture 10 of item 9 wherein each of said holding mechanisms 33,34,40,41 is oriented at an angle of approximately 900 relative to an adjacent holding mechanism 33,34,40,41 . 11. The lift fixture 10 of item 1 wherein the number of holding mechanisms 100 is three, each of said holding mechanisms 100 being oriented at an angle of approximately 1200 relative to the adjacent holding mechanisms 100 . 12. The lift fixture 10 of item 11 wherein one of said holding mechanisms 100 is mounted on one of said yoke 17 and clamp 20 generally along the yoke longitudinal axis. 13. The lift fixture 10 of item 1 wherein said driving means 48 comprises a fluid cylinder 49 having a retractable rod 50 for moving said clamp 20 along said yoke longitudinal axis. 14. A lift fixture 10 for holding and centering a workpiece 93 comprising a yoke 17 having arms 22,23 adapted o be positioned about the workpiece 93 a clamp 20 mounted between the yoke arms 22,23 means 48 for driving said clamp 20 between an open position and a closed position adjacent the workpiece 93 a plurality of angularly spaced holding means 33,34,40,41 , a portion thereof being carried by said yoke 17 and a portion being carried by said clamp 20 each of said holding means 33,34,40,41 including a rod 84 extending between end plates 60,61 fixed to the respective one of said yoke 17 and said clamp 20 pad assembly 67,69 slidably mounted on said rod 84 associated therewith each holding means 33,34,40,41 having a pair of springs 87,88 acting on either side of said pad assembly 67,69 and preloaded to maintain said said pad assembly 67,69 in a preselected centered position on said rod 84 , whereby gripping and lifting of the workpiece 93 solely by said pad assembly 67,69 permits said springs 87,88 to equalize the forces between the respective springs through the workpiece 93 thereby centering the workpiece 93 within the lift fixture 10 .