# Device interfacing a microprocessor bus and a synchronous periphery of sensors and drivers.

## Abstract
This device basically consists of a random access mem ory performing as an image of the periphery conditions, and of the circuits controlling the addressing, the reading and the writing in the memory said circuits permit either the access to the memory by the processor or the synchronous reading or writing of a plurality of sample frames directed to or coming from the periphery. The memory is organized in blocks of as many rows as are the samples in each frame each block is associated with either sensors or drivers, and the processor can have access for the reading or writing to any row in each block, while the access for the synchronous reading or writing is possible only to the rows of the blocks associated with drivers or sensors, respectively.

## Claims
Patent claims 1. Device interfacing a bus of a microprocessor designed to process the signalling criteria of a telecommunications network, and a periphery consisting of sensors and or drivers designed to pick up from and distribute to the network said criteria, the device operating according to working cycles divided into a plurality of time slots comprising a first part allotted to operations requested by the microprocessor asynchronous operations and a second part in which the device receives from or sends to the periphery serial and synchronous frames, comprising as many time slots as there are in one of said cycles, each time slot being allotted to a sample of a criterion concerning a network device or to a redundancy bit, the device comprising a random access memory and the relative control circuits for the addressing, the reading and the writing, which circuits during the first part of each time interval allow the access to the memory by the microprocessor,while during the second part they allow the reception and emission of said frames .under the control of a time base of the device, said interfacing device being characterized in that said memory ME1 , that is to form a centralized image of the periphery, easily accessible by the microprocessor, is organized in blocks of rows, each block being wholly associated with sensors or drivers and consisting of as many rows as are the time slots in a working cycle in that during the first part of each time slot in a cycle said control cir cuits MX2, ME2, LA allow the access to any row of any block of the memory ME1 for both write and read operations, whereas during the second part of each time interval they allow the access to a row of each block associated with sensors for a synchronous write operation, and to a row of each block associated with drivers, for a synchronous read operation characterized also in that each row comprises a first group of cells, each associated in one to one correspondence with a sensor or a driver or a redundancy, and storing a bit representing the logic state of a same criterion, and other cells storing parity bits relevant to. the bits stored in the first group of cells, the first group of cells containing as many cells as are the frames that can be sent or received in parallel.2. Device according to claim 1, characterized in that said control cir cuits comprise a three input and one output mu,ltiplexer MX2 , the first input of which corresponds to the control of the memory for the operations requested by the microprocessor, while the second and the third inputs are designed respectively to the memo ry control for synchronous read and write operations and are con nected to said time base BT from which they receive the addresses involved in the operation a control input of the multiplexer MX2 being connected to a logic network LA that receives from the time base BT the most significant bits of each address, identifying a block of rows inside the memory, and that during the second part of each time slot positions the multiplexer on the second or the third inputs dependant on whether the operation concerns a block of rows associated with sensors or a block of rows associated with drivers. 3. Device according to claims 1 or 2, characterized in that during a working cycle, said control circuits allow the access with different periodicities to the rows associated to the different criteria, for the read or write operations requested by the microprocessor. 4. Device according to claim 2, characterized in that the second input of the multiplexer MX2 is directly connected to the time base and receives therefrom the write addresses, so as to control the se quential write operations in the blocks of rows associated with the sensors, and the third input of the multiplexer MX2 is connected to an erasableprogrammable read only memory ME2 that receives the addresses sequentially generated bythetime base BT and changes the order thereof so that no bits of signalling criteria in the frames emitted towards the periphery simulate the bit sequences designed to synchronize the periphery operation with the time base of the device. 5. Device according to claims 1 to 4, characterized in that it further comprises means GP1, MX1 designed to insert into the frames emitted towards the periphery synchronism sequences and bits of serial parity relative to the bits forming the frame, said means being controlled by said erasable and programma e read only memory ME2 . 6. Device according to claims 1 to 5,characterized in that it comprises input and output circuits IP, UP for connection to the periphery, each of them being associated with a memory block and receiv ing from or sending to the periphery as many frames in parallel as are the cells in the first group of cells of each row of the random access memory ME1 , the circuits that receive the frames from the periphery IP1, IP2 comprising means CPl. .. . CPl 6 for checking the serial parity in the individual frames, means MX4 for introduc ing the result of said check in place of the bits of serial parity, and means GP2, GP3 for generating bits of parallel parity relative to the bits present in a same time slot in all the frames. 7. Device according to claims 1 to 6, characterized in that it also comprises an input output circuit IE for connection to the micro processor, comprising means P5, FF allowing the access to the memory until the beginning of a guard time Tg , that comprises the second part of each time slot and has such duration as to allow the effectuation of an operation requested before the beginning of said second part of the time interval and to delay until the end of the guard time the effectuation of an operation requested after the beginning of the guard time.

## Description
DEVICE INTERFACING A MICROPROCESSOR BUS AND A SYNCHRONOUS PERIPHERY OF SENSORS AND DRIVERSDescription The present invention relates to data processing systems for telecommunications networks, and more particularly it concerns a device interfacing a microprocessor for processing the signalling criteria of such a network, and a synchronous periphery of sensors and drivers for picking up from and distributing to said network such criteria. The invention can be pyeferably, but not exclusively applied to processing units associated to electromechanical telephone exchanges. It is known. that nowadays many electromechanical exchanges are equipped with processors that receive information represented by the electrical criteria present in determined wires or devices and process it, to supply real time information on the good operation of the exchange, or statistical data, or information necessary to offer new services to the subscribers e. g. charge documentation and the like . As a result of the processing, new control criteria can be sent to the exchange. Generally the sensors and drivers one placed near the devices from which they pick up or to which they distribute said criteria, and are equipped with multiplexing or demultiplexing units allowing the transfer of serial and synchronous signal frames to and from the processor. The term synchronous is used here to denote that each criterion of the controlled or supervised devices is allotted a well defined time slot in the frame. By this disposition the connection between the periphery sensors and drivers and the centralised part processor requires a limited number of wires, thus reducing installation costs. Besides the dialogue between the two parts is minimal, as the identity of the device to which a given information pertains can be immediately deduced from the position of the information in the frame this minimization of the dialogue allows the use of a periphery having a rather simple structure. However, a processor operates in asynchronous way, that is it receives and emits the information at the most convenient instants therefore, in order tomaintainthe synchronous periphery structure a system is necessary which interfaces said periphery and the the processor, and which is able to dialogue in an asynchronous waywith processor and to receive from orto sendtothe periphery the synchronous frames this interfacing system, that is generally connected to the processor bus, will be located near the processor, for the same reasons that suggest the location of sensors and drivers near the exchange devices. A number of devices interfacing a synchronous periphery of sensors and or drivers and a control processor, that may be a microprocessor, are already known. Yet the known devices operate in connection with general purpose processors that conveniently process the telephone signalling only if they are free from all repetitive tasks, such as signal integration, time metering and the like. These tasks are then carried out by the interface that acts as an actual preprocessor, and stores and makes available for the main processor data already processed instead of samples of the voltages forming the signalling criteria. The object of the invention is to provide an interfacing de vice designed to cooperate with a microprocessor which is just designed to control a telephone network, and is therefore equipped with the instructions necessary to carry out the preprocessing operations that in the prior art are carried out by the interface. Obviously in this case the interface is to make available to the processor the actual criteria instead of data obtained therefrom it will act as an image of the periphery, organizing the criteria sa that the processor may have always at its disposal the updated periphery situation, and may read or update the various criteria at the most suitable instant on the basis of the nature of the criteria themselves. It is a particular object of the present invention a device interfacing a bus of a microprocessor for processing the signalling criteria of a telecommunications network, and a periphery consisting of sensors and or drivers for picking up from and distributing to the network said criteria, the device operating according to working cycles divided into a plurality of time slots comprising a first part allotted to operations requested by the microprocessor asynchronous operations and a second part in which the device receives from or sends to the periphery serial and synchronous frames, comprising as many time slots as there are in one of said cycles, each time slot being allotted to a sample of a criterion concerning a network device or to a redundancy bit, the device comprising a random access memory and the relative control circuits for the addressing, the reading and the writing, which circuits during the first part of each time slot allow the access to the memory by the microprocessor while during the second part they allow the reception and emission of said frames under the control of a time base the device being characterized in that said memory, which is to form a centralized image of the periphery, easily accessible by the processor, is organized in blocks of rows, each block being wholly associated with sensors or drivers and consisting of as many rows as are the time slots in a working cycle in that during the first part of each time slot in a cycle said control circuits allow the access to any row in any block of the memory for both write and read operations, whereas during the second part of each time interval they allow the access to a row in each block associated with sensors for a synchronous write operation, and to a row in each block associated with drivers for a synchronous read operation in that each row comprises a first group of cells, each associated in one to one correspondence with a sensor or a driver or a redundancy and storing a bit representing the logic state of a same criterion, and other cells storing parity bits relative to the bits stored in the first group of cells, the first group of cells containing as many cells as are the frames that can be received and or emitted in parallel. The foregoing and other characteristics of the present invention will become clearer from the following description of a preferred embodiment thereof given by way of example and not in a limiting sense, in which Fig. 1 shows the insertion of the invention into a telephone exchange associated with a processor Fig. 2 is a block diagram of the invention Fig. 3 is a block diagram of the input gates for connection to the periphery Fig. 4 is the block diagram of the output gates for connection to the periphery Fig. 5 is a block diagram of the input output logic for connection to the processor Figures 6A, 6B, 6C are qualitative diagrams of some control or timing signals. In Fig. 1 a telephone exchange CT equipped with a processor EL is connected to a number of units PS1... PSk.... PSn forming the synchronous periphery of sensors and drivers picking up the criteria to process in EL and distributing control criteria as a result of the processing. Blocks PS1. . PSk... . PSn on the one side cyclically pick up the criterial from all the devices to be surveyed as schematically represented by connections 1 and organize them into serial frames that are sent in parallel, via balanced lines 2, towards one or more devices IF1 . . IFm that interface the synchronous periphery with asynchronously operating processor EL. Reversely, blocks PS1. .. PSn receive in parallel from their respective interfaces IF1.. IFm, through balanced lines 3, serial frames of criteria and distribute said criteria through connections 4 to the exchange devices to be controlled. The sensing part of blocks PS will for instance consist of banks of multiplexers controlled by a local i. e.peripheral timing unit synchronized by the centralized part by means of signals inserted in the frames sent along lines 3 moreover they will also comprise circuits converting the level of the criteria picked up from the value utilized in the exchange to a value apt to the transmission along lines 2, and inserting into the frames the necessary redundancies more particularly parity bits and information on the good operation of the periphery. By way of example, the frames will be assumed to consist of 128 bits of data and other information for a total duration of 8 ms. The driving part of blocks PS will consist of banks of demultiplexers for the parallelization of the information contained in the serial frames, of staticization registers, of circuits bringing the signal level from the value used for the transmission on lines 3 to that required by the exchange devices, and of circuits checking the redundancies in the arriving signals. If the centralized part interfaces IF1. . IFm and processor EL is duplicated for reliability purposes, blocks PS will also contains far as the drivers are concerned, switching circuits connecting the periphery to either of the twin units on the basis of the orders supplied by EL. All the circuits that implement the above mentioned functions for the sensors and the drivers are well known in the art and do not require any detailed description. Interfaces IF1.... IFm, connected to processor bus 5, must form a centralized image1 , easily accessible by the processor, of the state of the periphery. Consequently, each unit IF will basically consist of a random access memory and of the logic circuits for the memory addressing, reading and writing. In that memory the frames coming from or sent to the periphery will be synchronously written or read, and words containing a certain number of bits, each associated to one sensor or driver in the periphery, will be asynchronously read or written. As the synchronous frames comprise also redundancy bits parity, synchronism words for the peripheral time bases, etc.. , units IF will also comprise circuits checking or inserting said bits. To operate as described above, units IF present a working cycle subdivided into a number of elementary time slots a small fraction of each time slot will be allotted to the synchronous operations frame reception and emission while the remaining time will be allotted to the asynchronous operations requested by the processor. Suitable timing signals control the alternance of the two operation modes. More particularly, the access to the interface by EL will be immediately granted if the access request arrives and can be satisfied within the time allotted to the asynchronous operations otherwise the request will be satisfied during the subsequent period allotted to the processor. To this aim a guard time will be provided which begins before the period allotted to synchronous operations, which comprises such a period and establishes the limit past which the re quests made by EL will not satisfied immediately. With the above assumptions for the frame length, each time slot of the working cycle of a unit IF will last 62. 5jigs the time devoted to synchronous operations may last 2 us, and the guard time can begin jys before the time allotted to synchronous operations, for a total duration of 5 is. Supposing also that TTL logic circuits are used for implementing the interface, during the time of 2,is four synchronous operations can be effected carom four write operations, in case that the periphery associated to a unit comprises only sensors, to four read operations, in case the periphery is composed of drivers only, including all the intermediate combinations . The input or output frames can then be divided into four groups and each synchronous operation will concern a bit of all the frames in a group. By way of example hereinafter reference will be made to the effectuation of two write and two read operations. The structure and the operation of device IF will be descibed in further detail hereinafter, with reference to Fig. 2. Processor EL will be a microprocessor designed to process the telephone signalling this means that the instructions for the signalling preprocessing will be microprogrammed in said processor an example is described in SEM Studio di strutture per un sistema elaborativo modulare a microprocessori , CSELT Rapporti Tecnici,Vol. VI, n. 2,Giugno 1978. The use of a telephonic processor is es sential for the interface to be an image of the periphery and to be free from processing tasks. In Fig. 2 reference MEI denotes the random access memory forming the main element of the interface. Such a memory is organized into words containing as many bits as are the frames written or read in each synchronous operation i. e. as are the frames in a group , as well as a number of parity bits. The whole of the words concerning a group of frames is allotted a memory block and therefore each block is entirely associated with sensors or drivers. By way of example the words may consist of 16 data bits and two parity bits, one for each data bit octet this means that each synchronous operation concerns 16 frames. Under the above assump tions, the memory will consist of 4 blocks of 128 words each comprising 18 bits, that is of 512 words. Obviously, the memory capacity could be increased by increasing the time devoted to the synchronous operations. However that would be to the detriment of the processing power and therefore big exchanges will be associated with more blocks IF as represented inFig.1 , and therefore with more memories ME1, each forming the image of a determined portion of the periphery. The data to be written are sent to MEI via an 18 wire connection or bus 6 that can receive the data from either the processor through bus 5 thereof, an input output logic IE and a bus 61 or the periphery through connections 2, input gates IP1, IP2, a bidirectional bus 8, a transceiver or bidirectional buffer RT andaunidirectional bus 60 . The data read are presented on a bus 7 and are sent either to the processor through a bus 71, logic IE and bus 5 or to the periphery through bus 70, a multiplexer MX1, buffer RT, bus 8, output gatesUP1, UP2 and connections 3 . The addresses and the read write commands are sent via a multiplexer MX2, that receives them either from the processor for the asynchronous operations or from a time base BT for the synchronous operations . Multiplexer MX2 has three inputs and one output. The first input, selected for the asynchronous operations, receives from logic IE the addresses through a connection 11 and the write read command via a wire 12 . The second input, selected during the synchronous write operations, receives from time base BT the write addresses the most significant bits that identify one out of the four blocks of 128 words are present on a connection 13, while the least significant bits that identify the word in the block are present on a connection 14. A further input wire 15, connected to a fixed logic level, sends the memory the synchronous write command. The third input, selected in case of synchronous read operation, is connected to connection 13 and to an output 16 of anEPROM memory ME2 addressed by the bits present on connection 14 ME 2 will then have as many memory positions as are in a block ofME1 the tasks of this memory will be described hereinafter, in connection with the operation of the apparatus. The outputs of MX2 are connection 17 for the addresses, and wire 18 for the commands. The positioning of the multiplexer is controlled in conjunction by a bit Ts, supplied by the time base and distinguishing by its logic value the time allotted to synchronous operations from the time allotted to the asynchronous operations, and by the output bit of a logic network LA controlled by the two most significant bits of each address, present on connection 13. During the time allotted to the asynchronous operations for instance when Ts is 0 , MX2 will always be positioned on its first input, whatever the output signal of LA may be during the time intended for the synchronous operations, the output signal of LA will set MX2 on the second or the third input, according to whether a write or a read operation is to be effected. The structure of LA is therefore related with the configuration of memory ME1, i. e. with the association of the different blocks with sensors or drivers. If ME 1 has the above described structure, logic LA may consist of a four input and one output multiplexer MX3, controlled by the bit pattern present on connection 13. Two inputs for instance the first two are steadily connected to a logic value 1 that, transferred to the output, means for instance synchronous writing the remaining two inputs are connected to logic value 0 to mean the reading. Obviously the inputs can be associated with 1 and 0 in alternate way. A A logic network of this kind allows an easy adaptation to periphery configurations different from the described one in fact it will be enough to connect to 1 or to 0 a different number of inputs of MX3 in order to obtain a control of MX2 corresponding to the new configuration. As shown, the positioning of MX2 on the second or third input depends upon the bits present on connection 13 which bits depend in turn on the subdivision into blocks of the memory in this v ay during the synchronous write operations only the rows of the blocks associated with the sensors will be addressable, while during synchronous read operations only the rows of the blocks associated with the drivers will be addressable. During asynchronous operations the processor has on the contrary access for both the write and read operations to any row of the memory, independant of its being allotted to sensors or drivers this allows for instance the consecutive effectuation of a write and a read operation on the same row, as it can be requested by diagnostic tests on the memory. Multiplexer MX1 presents four multiple inputs and one multiple output a firstinput is connected to bus 70 that carries the data read in the memory and directed to the peripery a second input is connected to the output of a parity generator GPl ihose input is connected to bus 70 two further inputs are connected in a fixed way to logic values 0 and 1 respectively. Parity generator GP1 is subdivided into sixteen sections, associated each to one of the wires that in bus 70 carry the data bits, and generates bits of serial parity in the output frames the two fixed inputs also with 16 wires are utilized to insert into the output frames the synchronism words for instance 8 consecutive bits at logic level 1 preceded and followed by one bit at logic level 0 . The control of MX1 is supplied by signals present on an output 20 of memory ME2, and identifying the time slots allotted to parity and synchronism. The output of MXI is connected to the unidirectional input of buffer RT. Buffer RT is wholly conventional for instance it will be realized by open collector components. RT will be enabled by signal TS that is, during the time allotted to synchronous operations the direction of the data passage is determined by the output signal of logic LA wire 19 that as said canses the reading or writing in the memory. Gates IPI,IP2, that in the example considered are associated each with sixteen lines 2 that is with as many lines as are the frames that can be processed in parallel have basically the tasks of transforming the levels of the signals present on lines 2 into logic levels, more particularly TTL levels checking the parity in the arriving serial frames, by replacing each parity bit by a bit denoting the check result generating the parity bits parallel parity in the groups of bits sent In parallel onto bus 8. Gates UP1, UP2, associated withs 16 output lines 3, must store the lata read in the memory for the whole duration of a time slot that is 62.5 us transform TTL logic levels into levels apt to the transmission on balanced lines 3. The ratio between the number of input and output gates will be different in the case of periphery configurations different from the ones considered above. More particularly if the periphery consists only of drivers, input gates IP will be dispensed with if the periphery consists only of sensors, gates UP can be eliminated. In the latter case, the date input of MX1 bus 70 can be fixedly connected to a logic level 0 that corresponds to the emission of empty data frames also the input to the parity bus 70 will be connected to a fixed logic level more particularly 1, in case of odd parity the inputs relative to the synchronism will be still connected as shown in the Figure the output of MX1 will be directly connected to lines 3 through driving circuits therefore practically only the synchronism signals will be present on these lines. For their operation circuits IP, UP receive from the time base the two most significant address bits connection 13 , the signal denoting the read write operations wire 19 and other signals TI, T2 generated by the time base these segnals will be examined in further detail hereinafter. Circuits IP are also connected to output 30 of a decoderDE1, that has its input connected to output 20 of ME2 and has the task of recognizing the time slot devoted to the parity. Circuit IE controls the dialogue between IF and the processor it will be enabled to receive from or transmit to the processor the data, out of the guard time signal Tg , while the data transmission and reception to and from the memory is enabled during the time allotted to the asynchronous operations signal Ts a possible embodiment of IE is represented in Figure 5. The drawing also shows that the time base generates two further signals Ia, Ib that are sent to the processor to indicate the beginning of a synchronous write operation in a memory block and the beginning of the write operation in the second half of the block. Thus the processor knows which half of the block contains the updated data, so that two asynchronous readings of data obtained from a same synchronous scanning are avoided. In Figure 3, line receivers LR1... LR16 of anyknown type are connected in the sixteen lines 2 1 2 16 associated to one of the gates IP, to convert the balanced signals present on said lines 2 into TTL signals utilized in the interface IF. Outputs 21 1. 21 16 of receivers LR1.... LR16 are connected both to a first group of inputs of a multiplexer MX4 and to the inputs of as many circuits CP1.... CP16 that check the parity serial parity in the frames transmitted on lines2 Outputs 22 1.... 22 16 of circuits CP1.... CP16 are connected to a second group of inputs of multiplexer MX4. MultiplexerMX4 is usually positioned on its first group of inputs, and passes to the second group of inputs in the time slots allotted to the parity bits the command is supplied by signal Tp present on output 30 of decoder DEI Figure 2 . Circuits CP, well known in the art, are timed by signal T1, that establishes the instant of loading of the bits in CP. The multiple output of MX4 consists of sixteen wires 23 1.... 23 8, 23 9... 23 16 connected in parallel to as many inputs of an output buffer BUI, advantageously fabricated with open collector tristate components two further inputs of BUI are connected respec tively to the outputs 24, 25 of two parity generators GP2, GP3. Said parity generators are connected to the eight outputs 23 1... .23 8 and 23 9.... 23 16 of MX4,respectively,and at each time slot generate the parity bit relative to the eight bits simultaneously present on their inputs. The output of BU1 is bus 8. BU1 is enabled by the output signal of a comparator CM1, in which a code identifying circuit IP is preset. The comparator recei ves through connection 13 the most significant bits of the address of rela tive to a write operation in the memory, and emits the output signal when the address indicates the block of memory with which that circuit IP is associated. Comparator CM1 is enabled by the signal present on wire 19 when a write operation in memory MEI is being effected. With reference to Figure 4, an output gate UP is connec ted to bus 8 through a conventional input buffer BE1, having sixteen outputs 26 1,26 ló connected to as many registers RG1.... RG16, for instance D type flip flops. The register outputs are connected to lines l. . .3 16 through driving circuits LD1. .. LD16 that convert the TTL signals utilized in the interface into the balanced signals utilized for the transmission on said lines. The bit loading into the registers is controlled by the output signal of an AND gate P1, that receives at an input the timing signal T2 and at a second input the output signal of a comparator CM2, wherein a code for the identification of circuit UP is set. In the same way as CMI Figure 3 , CM2 has the input connected to connection 13 and emits the output signal when the write operation in the memory concerns the block associated with that circuit UP. The operation of CM2 is enabled by the signal present on wire I9 during a read operation in the memory. Even though bus 8 comprises 18 wiresjonly 16 outputs ofBE1 are utilized, as the two parity bits associated to each read word are not to be transferred the periphery. In Fig. 5 processor bus 5 has been represented as split into connection 50 for data and addresses,and wires 51,52,53, 54 conveying respectively a timing signal SYNC, a signal OUT indicating that the processor requests a write operation in the memory that is a data output , a signal INP indicating that the processor requests a read operation in the memory data input in the processor and a signalRPY indicating that the request has been accepted by the interface. Connection 50 and wires 51, 52, 53 are connected to input buffer BE2, that is permanently enabled. Wire 54 is the output of an open collector output buffer BU2. Output wires 50 of BE2 corresponding to connection 50 are connected to the input of a register RE that is controlled by signal SYNC that denotes the validity of an address sent by the processor and stores the addresses, keeping them available for the whole operation. A first set of outputs of RE, corresponding to those which in connections 50, 50 convey the address of the memory position interested in the operation, forms connection 11. A second set of outputs 50 , corresponding to those wires which in connections 50, 50 carry the address of unit IF interested in the operation, is connected to the input of a comparator CM3. A code for the identification of unity IF is set in this comparator, which emits a signal on its output 55 when the address sent by the processor and the address set in the comparator are the same. This signal enables BU2 and it is also sent to an input of 2 input AND gate P2, whose second input is connected to output wire 52 of BE2 corresponding to wire 52 on which the signal OUT is present . The output of P2 is connected to an input of an AND gate P3, whose output is wire 12 that carries the write command to memoryME1 Figure 2 . The other input of P3 is connected to output Q wire 54t of a set reset flip flop FF whose set input is connected to output 56 of a 2 input OR gate P4, that receives at the second input the signal INP through output wire 53 of BE2 . The reset input of FF is connected to the output of a 2 input NAND gate P5, that has an input connected to output 56 of P4 and receives at the other input, as enabling signal, the signal Tg that is, P5 can let through the operation requests signals INP, OUT that arrive out of the guard time. The output signal of FF is signal RPY that therefore can be sent to the processor through wire 54 , buffer BU2 and wire 54 when a request for operation write or read operations arrives out of the guard time. As to the data, wires 50 outgoing from BE 2 enter also a further input buffer BE3 of the open collector type, which is enabled during the time intended for asynchronous operations signal Ts the output of BE 3 is bus 61. Bus 71 conveying the data read is connected to the input of an output buffer BU3 of the open collector type, enabled by the output signal of aNAND gate P6, having three inputs connected to wires 53 , 54 , 55 BU3 lets then through the data present at its input when a read operation in the memory has been requested by the unit IF of which BU3 makes part, and the request can be satisfied. The output of BE3 is a bus 50a that joins the connection 50. Figures 6A 6C show qualitatively some of the timing signals previously mentioned. The signals are identified both by their symbols and, whenever possible, by the reference numerals denoting the wires or connections on which they are present. More particularly, in Figure 6A there is represented a part of a 128 bit frame, with the assumption that the last bit is the parity bit whose time slot is identi fied by the passage to 1 of signal Tp. The passage to I of signals Ts and Tgidentifies the time allotted to synchronous operations and the guard time. Signal T1, whose period is equal to the bit time, determines when passing to 1 the loading of the bits into circuits CPl. CP16 Figure 3 . To allow the result of the parity check on the last frame bit to be loaded into the memory, the passage to 1 of T1 must precede the time allotted to the synchronous operations pulse of signalTs . For instance, the leading edge of T1 can occur at half time slot and the time allotted to synchronous operations can begin near the end of the time slot. The pulse of T1 may even coincide with that of Tg. It is to be appreciated that in the drawing the durations of the pulses of Ts and Tg are slightly exaggerated to make the drawing clearer. Fig. 6B shows the signals relating to the synchronous operations for the i th time slot. The signal R W present on connection 19 has been supposed to be 1 during the write operation and 0 during the read time.Consistently with Figure 2, the two write operations W1, W2 have been supposed to take place one after the other and to precede the two read operations R1, R2 . Signal T2 has a period equal to the duration of a synchronous operation and passes to 1 substantially at half the time allotted to each operation. Signals R W and T2 have been represented only during the time allotted to synchronous operations and during the time allotted to read operations, respectively, as they are of no interest out of these time periods. In Figura 6C references A D in the row allotted to bus 50 denote respectively the presence on the bus of addresses or data. The signal SYNC confirmation of address validity passes to 1 somewhat after the sending of the address into bus 50a and remains at 1 substantially for the whole operation signals INP, OUT are sent i. e. they pass to 1 a little while after the end of address transmission and remain present until the reception of signal RPY by E2 afterwards they pass to 0. Signal RPY passes to 1 as a consequence of the arrival of INP or OUT the passage to 1 is immediate if INP or OUT arrive out of the guard time, otherwise it will take place after the end of the guard time. RPY remains at 1 until about the end of the operation and its reset causes the reset of SYNC. The operation of our invention will be now described, by investigating first the operations of circuits TP, UP, IE and then the read and write operations in the memory. These latter operations will be described in the sequence synchronous writing, asynchronous reading, asynchronous writing and synchronous reading, and correspond to picking up the state ofthe periphery from the sensors, transferring the information to the processor for the necessary processings, writing in the memory the commands for the drivers as results of the processings, and transmitting said commands to the periphery.A Input output circuits. l Gates IP Fig. 3 At each time slot of the frame, the signals present on the 16 lines 2 1 .. 2 16 Figure 3 connected to one of the gates for instance IP1 are received by circuits LR, converted into the form apt to the operation of the interface circuits, and then sent to multiplexer MX4 and parity check circuits CP1. . . CP16 where they are loaded when signal T4 Figure 6A passes to 1. Until the beginning of the time slot allotted to to serialgparity, signal Tp on wire 30 remains 0 and positions MX4 Figure 3 so as to let through the bits present on wires 21 and to send them on lines 23.These bits are then sent to output buffer BU1 together with the two bits of parallel paritf, which are generated by GP2, GP3 for the two data bit octets lines 23 1 to 23 8 and 23 9 to 23 16 and are present on wires 24,25.When the address supplied by the time base through wires 13 indicates gate IP1 and the signal R W on wire 19 is 1 for instance during the first quarter of the period allotted to the synchro nous operations, denoted by W1 in Figura 6B buffer BU1 is enabled byCM1 to let through on bus 8 the 18 bits present at its inputs. In the subsequent quarter of the period allotted to the synchronous operations in that time slot time w2 , the second gate IP2 will be addressed and the other 18 bits will be transferred onto bus 8. During the time slot allotted to the parity bit the last inFigure 6A signal Tp passes to 1 and then MX4 becomes connected to wires 22, picking up from CPl.. . CPl6 the result of the parity check effected on the frame. When Ts passes to 1, BU1 can be again enabled and then the result of said check is transferred onto bus 8.2 Gate UP Fig. 4 At each time slot, the bits present on bus 8 upon a synchronous reading in the memory signal R W at 3Figure 6B pass through input buffer BE1 and arrive at registers RGl...RG16. Considering gateUP1, when the address on wire 13 indicates such a gate time R1, Figure 6B the output of CM2 is activated as soon as signal T2 passes to 1, registers RG1... Rig16 transfer the 16 bits to the output. Through driving circuits Lid1. . . LD16 said bits are brought to the level suitable for the transmission on lines 3 1... 3 16 and transferred onto said lines, where they remain present till gate UP1 is addressed again. The same operations are carried out for gate UP2, during the last quarter of the time allotted to synchronous operations timeR2, Figure 6B .3 Logic IE Figure 5 The processor sends onto wires 50 the address concerned by the operation, that through input buffer BE2 arrives at the input of register RE. Then signal SYNC is sent and it causes, through BE2 and wire 51 , the loading of the address bits into RE. As a consequence the address part thatidentifies module IF is presented on wires 50 while that relative to the memory cell passes onto wires 11 both address parts are kept present for the whole duration of the operation.If for instance circuit IE associated with IF 1 is considered, when the address on wires 5011 coincides with that set in comparator CM3, comparator output 55 is activated. Once the loading of the addresses has been effected, the processor sends through wire 52 or 53 the signal that indicates the type of operation INP or OUT , said signal passing onto wire 52 or 53 through buffer BE2. Whichever signal is sent, OR gate P4 presents it on wire 56 to the input of gate P5 and to the set input of FF. If the signal arrives before the guard time pulse a in row 52 53 of Figure 6C gate P5 is enabled and sets to 1 output Q of FF wire 54 , signal RPY . As output 55 of CM3 has been activated, bufferBU2 is enabled and then signal RPY can be sent to the processor. As a consequence the processor can send the data to be written or receive the read data hexagon D in Figure 6C, row 50 . In case of a write operation, gate P2 transfers1signal OUT toP3. Signal RPY is 1, and then the request for the write operation passes onto wire 12 towards the memory. The processor sends then the data that through bus 50, buffer BE2, wires 50 and buffer BE3 are presented onto bus 61 signal. OUT has been supposed to arrive before the guard time thus BE3 will be enabled signal Ts at 0, that is Ts at 1 . Approximatively at the end of the sending of data, signalRPY is reset, what causes signal SYNC to be reset. Signal OUT had already been reset after the passage to 1 of RPY, as it was no longer necessary. In case of a read operation, signal INP present on wire 53 is sent to P6 that has already received the signal present on wire 55 upon the activation of output 54 of FF, P6 enables buffer BU3 that transfers the bits of wire 71 onto bus 50a, and then onto bus 50. If the signal indicating the type of operation arrives after the beginning of the guard time Tg at I , as it happens for pulse b in row 52 53 of Figure SC, gate P5 is disabled as Tg is O as a consequen ce output Q of FF, and then the signal on wire 54 or 54, are at 0, that is signal RPY is not sent to the processor. The presence of a logic level 0 on wire 54 disables gates P3 and P6 and hence buffer BU3 the disabling of gate P3 prevents the possible write command from being sent to ME1 Figure 2 through wire 12, while the disabling of P6, and then of BU3 prevents the data present in case of reading on bus 71 from being sent to the processor. This situation lasts for the whole guardltime as soon asTg returns to 0, and therefore Tg passes to 1, output Q of FF passes to 1 and then signal RPY is emitted the whole process develops in the same way as seen above.B Operations on the memory 1 Synchronous write operation. In the synchronous write operation the bits relative to 32 frames, divided into two groups of 1 6 frames,must be transferred into the memory It will be supposed that each frame comprises in succession first all the criteria of a first devicewthen all the criteria of the second device and so on, and that simultaneous time slots in the 16 frames of a group are allotted to homologous criteria considering also redundancies as criteria . This arrangement is preferred as it makes the processor tasks easier. Taking this into account, during the synchronous writings signals Ts and R W are both 1 Figure 6B . Therefore buffer RT Figure 2 is enabled to connect to write bus 60 and then to bus 6 bus 8 carrying the bits outcoming from gates IP1, IPZ. Further more the bit pattern on wires 13 will address one of the memory blocks associated with the sensors, so that multiplexer MX2 is po sitioned onto its second input signal R W at 1 and transfers onto wires 17, 18 the write command and the addresses. The time base sequentially generates all 128 addresses of a block at each address, 16 bits relative to a same criterion and two parity bits will be memorized. When the write operation concerns the first and the 65 th rows, signals Ia, Ib will be sent to the proces sor by BT.With the assumption that two memory blocks are asso ciated with sensors, two rows, one for each block, will be written in each time slot both rows are addressed by the bit pattern on wires 14. The row of a block may or may not contain the same cri teria as the homologous row of the other block.2 Asynchronous read operation. This operation is effected, as mentioned, if the cdrresponding request arrives out of the guard time, that is while Tg is 0. Under these conditions in fact signal RPY, whose presence is necessary to enable circuit IE to let through onto bus 5 the data present on bus 7 and therefore 71 , can be emitted. In this phase multiplexer MX2 is positioned on its first input and it transfers onto connection 17 the address supplied by EL Figure 1 through bus 5, circuit IE and connection 11. As stated in connection with the operation of IE, during the reading phase neither wire 12 nor wire 17 are energized. This con dition is interpreted by ME1 as read command and the word memo rized at the wanted address is transferred onto bus 7. The read address, being supplied by the processor, is asynchronous and therefore some words could be read more fre quently than others. The reading periodicity will of course depend upon the type of criterion for instance dialling criteria could be read everylOms, while a reading every second will be sufficient for the conversation criterion. This fact requires that all bits in a memory row concern a same criterion, what is easy to obtain by the organisation described for the serial frames.3 Asynchronous write operation This operation is carried out in the same way as the asynchronous read operation. If the write request arrives out of the guard time, logic IE is enabled to transfer the data onto bus 61 and then onto bus 6 such enabling remains until signal Ts passes to 1. During the write operations wire 12 is energized then MX2, that is posi tioned on its first input, transfers onto wire 18 the write command represented by the signal present on said wire 12. During this phase the processor will advantageously write in sequence all the words relative to a same criterion in this way the blocks of ME1 allotted to the drivers will be organized into groups of homologous rows.4 Sinchronous read operation. In the synchronous read operation, frames organized in the same way as those present on lines 2 one to be sent on lines 3, that is all the criteria of a first device are sent first, then all the criteria of the second device, etc. Criterionhomogeneityin simultaneous time slots of the dif ferent frames is ensured by the fact that the read operation is effec ted by rows, and each row contains only homologous criteria. During this phase signal T1 is 1 and signal R W on wire 19 is 0. Therefore MX2 is positioned on its third input and picks up the least significant address bits from memory ME2, instead of receiving them directly from the time base. There is no command on wire 18, and then ME1 is informed a reading is to be effected. Buffer RT will connect bus 8 to the output of MX1 and then to buses 70 and 7 . When the addresses correspond to time slots allotted to the actual telephone criteria, MX1 will be positioned on the input directly connected to bus 70 and it will send said criteria to gates UP1, UP2 during the time slots allotted to serial parity or to syn chronism the signal present on output 20 of ME2 will position MXl onto the input connected to parity generator GP1 or to fixed logic lever 0, 1. Obviously also during these time slots the bits are emitted at the instants determined by signals Ts and R W. The two output gates UP1, UP2 will be enabled after each other in the same time slot, that is, also the reading concerns two rows per time slot. As mentioned, in the memory bloks allotted to the drivers the homologous criteria are written in groups of subsequent rows therefore, in case of a rigidly sequential reading i. e. carried out as the writing the bit patterns on lines 3 could simulate the synchronism words a sequence of 8 bits at I, followed by one bit 0, in the described embodiment . EPROMmemory ME2 has been introduced to avoid this said memory, on the basis of the sequential addressing supplied by BT, generates such an address sequence as to prevent the occurrence of the above situation . For instance, if four criteria per device are emitted and one of them has logic value 1 only once in a frame, memory ME2 will modify the sequential address so that the reading of criteria is effected device by device in this case at most 7 consecutive bits may be at 1 whilelas mentioned, synchronism word requires a sequence of 8 bits. This situation occurs for instance in exchanges which provide for the identification of a calling party at a timewthe identification being effected by sending to an exchange device a suitable identification signal that is then looked for in a sensors frame. In this way only one identification bit for each frame is at logic level 1. If this is impossible, a number of bits, always at logic level 0, are to be inserted in suitable frame positions, chosen so as to interrupt the possible sequence of logic 1 in the information obviously this entails a reduction in the number of drivers which can be controlled. Generally it may be said that the association between the inputs and outputs of ME 2 will depend upon the configuration of the synchronism words, on the nature of the criteria to be driven and then on the exchange structure, as well as on the way in which the proces sor writes in the memory. Obviously, the processor could already write the criteria so as to allow a sequential read operation in that case memory ME2 can be dispensed with. An organization like the one above offers a number of advantages first the processor is not linked to the frame repetition rate and therefore it can operate in really asynchronous way with respect to the periphery. In addition, the parallel processing of a high number of samples of the same criterion allows real time observe tion also of fast phenomena and the reduction of the complexity of the input output circuits for connection to the periphery. Furthermore, since the processor has access to all the memory blocks independant of their being allotted to sensors or drivers, the usual memory exercising can be performed, with evident diagnostic advantages finally the storage of all the samples forming a frame, including check bits, makes the latter bits directly available for the processor, so that the check of the good operation of the perphery and the connection lines with the interface is made easier. It is clear that what described has been given only by way of example and not in a limiting sense and that variations and modifications are possible without going out of the scope of the invention.