# Vehicle sill structure.

## Abstract
A vehicle body comprises a sill 30 along a lateral end of a floor panel 32 forming a lower side of a door opening. The sill is an open section, one piece member having an opening 60 extending throughout the length thereof. A cover 62 of a plastic material is removably attached to the sill in a manner to define a closed sill configuration.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A vehicle body comprising a floor panel 32 a sill 30 along a lateral extremity of said floor panel and defining a lower side of a door opening 38 a pivotal door 40 for closing the door opening and a weatherstrip 46 mounted on the door to provide a seat between the door and the sill, c h a c t e r i z e d by that said sill is an open section, one piece member. 2. A vehicle body as set in forth in Claim 1, c h a r a c t e r i z e d by that said sill 30 is of a downwardly and laterally outwardly open angle like section and includes a first upstanding wall section 48 attached at the lower end thereof to a lateral end of said floor panel and a second upstanding wall section 50 spaced laterally outwardly from said first upstanding wall section and forming a sealing surface for said weatherstrip. 3. A vehicle body as set in forth in Claim 2, c h a r a c t e r i z e d by concealing means 62,64 for concealing the opening of said sill. 4. A vehicle body as set in forth in Claim 3, c h a r a c t e r i z e d by that said concealing means comprises a cover 62 removably attached to said sill in a manner to define a closed sill configuration. 5. A vehicle body as set in forth in Claim 3, c h a r a c t e r i z e d by that said concealing means comprises a molding 64 attached to said door and depending to lie adjacent said sill when the door is in its closed position. 6. A vehicle body as set in forth in Claim 2, c h a r a c t e r i z e d by at least one reinforcing plate 66 having a peripheral portion shaped to fit a side surface of said sill and attached to said sill to impart a rigidity. 7. A vehicle body as set in forth in Claim 2, c h a r a c t e r i z e d by that said second upstanding wall section 50 slightly descends laterally outwardly. 8. A vehicle body as set in forth in Claim 3, c h a r a c t e r i z e d by that said sill 30 further includes a substantially horizontal wall section 54 interconnecting the upper ends of said first and second upstanding wall sections 48,50 and a free end wall section 56 extending laterally outwardly, in a slightly descending manner, from the lower end of said second upstanding wall section to terminate a downwardly turned, short flange 58 depending slightly inwardly.

## Description
DESCRIPTION The present invention relates in general to vehicle bodies and more particularly to sill structures thereof. In Figs. 1 and 2, a typical sill 10 of a vehicle body is shown which is formed from a side sill inner panel 12 and a side sill outer panel 14. The side sill panels are joined together at their respective upper and lower edges to define a hollow or closed sill configuration, i.e., the sill is of a closed section.The sill 10 is attached to a lateral end of a floor panel 16. A welt 18 is disposed in a manner to cover the joined upper edges of the side sill panels 12 and 14. A door 20 is shown to comprise a door inner panel 22 and a door outer panel 24, and a weatherstrip 26 of a resilient material is mounted in the lower end section of the door 20 in a manner to contact a sealing surface 28 of the side sill outer panel 14 to provide a seal between the sill 10 and the door 20 when the door is closed. The sill structure described above has the disadvantage that it is impossible or at least difficult to assuredly apply a coating on the interior surfaces of the side sill panels when the body is processed by electrodeposition painting since the sill is of a closed section. In order to protect the sill against corrosion, it is thus necessary to treat the sill by, for example, applying a rust proof oil on the interior surfaces of the side sill panels after the process of electrodeposition painting of the vehicle body. This inevitably results in an increased manufacturing cost. According to the present invention, there is provided a vehicle body which comprises a floor panel a sill along a lateral extremity of the floor panel and defining a lower side of a door opening a pivotal door for closing the door opening and a weatherstrip mounted on the door to provide a seal between the door and the sill in which the sill is an open section, onepiece member. The present invention enables to assuredly and easily apply a corrosion resistant coating such as a coating by electrodeposition painting to the both side surfaces of the sill, thereby eliminating the necessity of treating the sill by applying a rust proof oil or the like. It is accordingly an object of the present invention to provide a new and improved vehicle body which enables to assuredly and easily apply a corrosion resistant coating to the both side surfaces of its sill and improve the corrosion resistant quality of the sill. The features and advantages of the vehicle body according to the present invention will become more clearly appreciated from the following description taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings, in which Fig. 1 is an exploded, perspective view of a sill of a prior art vehicle body with which the present invention is concerned Fig. 2 is a cross sectional view of the sill ofFig. 1 and its adjacent parts Fig. 3 is a perspective of a sill and its adjacent parts of a vehicle body according to an embodiment of the present invention Fig. 4 is a cross sectional view of the sill ofFig. 3 and its adjacent parts Fig. 5 is an exploded, perspective view of the sill of Fig. 3 and its adjacent parts and Fig. 6 is a cross sectional view of a sill and its adjacent parts of a vehicle body according to another embodiment of the present invention. Referring to Figs. 3 to 6, inclusive, a vehicle body according to the present invention is shown to comprise a sill 30 which is disposed along a lateral extremity of a floor panel 32 and longitudinally extends between a front pillar 34 and a rear fender 36 seeFig. 3 . The sill 30 is an open section, one piece member made of steel and forms a lower side of a door opening 38. A door 40 is shown in Figs. 14 and 6 as formed from outer and inner door panels 42 and 1414 and hingedly or pivotally mounted at the front end thereof to the front pillar 34 to open and close the door opening 38. A weatherstrip 46 of a resilient material is mounted on the door 40 to provide a seal between the door and the sill. In the foregoing structure, it is to be noted that according to the present invention the sill 30 is an open section, one piece member. More specifically, the sill 30 is of a downwardly and laterally outwardly open angle like section and includes a first upstanding wall section 48 and a second upstanding wall section 50 spaced laterally outwardly from the first upstanding wall section. The first upstanding wall section 48 is welded or otherwise attached at the lower end thereof to a flanged lateral end of the floor panel 32. In this connection, the sill 30 is further welded or otherwise attached at the front end thereof to the front pillar 34 and at the rear end thereof to the rear fender 36 and a rear fender protector 52.The second upstanding wall section 50 slightly descends laterally outwardly and forms a sealing surface for contacting the weatherstrip 46. The sill 30 further includes a substantially horizontal wall section 54 interconnecting the upper ends of the first and second upstanding wall sections 48 and 50 and a free end wall section 56 extending laterally outwardly, in a slightly descending manner, from the lower end of the second upstanding wall section 50 to terminate a downwardly turned, short flange 58 depending slightly inwardly. With the foregoing shape, the sill 30 thus has an opening 60 extending throughout the length thereof. For aesthetic purposes, concealing means is used in the illustrated embodiments for concealing the opening 60 of the sill 30. In the embodiment of Fig. 4, the concealing means is shown to comprise a cover 62 which is removably attached with screws to the sill 30 in a manner to define a closed sill configuration. The cover 62 is made of a corrosion resistant material such as plastics and formed as a finishing or garnish member having, for example, a plurality of parallel grooves on the exterior surface thereof. As shown in Fig. 5, the cover 62 is longitudinally separated into two pieces which are joined at the mating ends when attached to the sill 30, though it may alternatively be one piece of the same length as the sill. In the embodiment of Fig. 6, the concealing means is shown to comprise a door molding 64 of a corrosionresistant material such as plastics and attached to the lower section of the door 40. The molding has a depending wall section which depends to lie adjacent the sill 30 when the door 40 is put in its closed position. The vehicle body may further comprise reinforcing means in order to increase the rigidity or stiffness of the sill 30. In Figs. 3 and 14, the reinforcing means is shown to comprise a plurality of reinforcing plates 66 each having a peripheral portion shaped to fit an inner side surface of the sill 30. The reinforcing plates are made of steel and welded to the sill at suitable positions thereof. From the foregoing, it will be understood that since the sill is an open section, one piece member according to the present invention, a coating can be easily and assuredly applied to the both side surfaces of the sill when the vehicle body is processed by electro deposition painting. This imparts a good corrosionresistant quality to the sill and eliminates the necessity of additionally treating the sill by, for example, applying a rust proof oil after the process of electrodeposition painting of the vehicle body. Further, a refined appearance of the vehicle body can be easily and economically attained by using the sill cover or the door molding which effects a good flexibility in design of the vehicle body. For example, in many conventional vehicles, a black color coating is applied to a side sill outer panel for the purpose of attaining such an effect that the vehicle body looks smaller than its actual bottom to top size. By suitably selecting the color of the sill cover in connection with the body color, such an effect can be easily and economically attained according to the present invention. Obviously, many variations and modifications of the present invention are possible in light of the above teachings. It is, therefore, to be understood that within the scope of the appended claims, the invention may be practiced otherwise than as specifically described.