# Benzaldehyde derivatives for use as a chemical intermediate.

## Abstract
The invention provides the novel chemical intermediate 4 4 chlorophenyl benzaldehyde, or the hydrate thereof pro cesses for its production and for its conversion to the known compounds 4 4 chlorophenyl benzyl alcohol and 4 4 chlorophenyl benzyl chloride and bromide. These latter compounds are intermediates known for use in the manufacture of anti arthritic benzyloxyacetic acids of the formula

## Claims
Claims What is claimed is 1. 4 4 Chlorophenyllbenzaldehyde having the formula EMI13.1 or the hydrate thereof. 2. A process for the manufacture of 4 4 chlorophenyl benzaldehyde, or the hydrate thereof, characterised by formylating 4 chlorobiphenyl. 3. A process according to claim 2 characterised in that the formylation is performed by reacting 4chlorobiphenyl a , with a mixture of carbon monoxide and hydrogen chloride in the presence of aluminium chloride or b , with hexamethylenetetramine in the presence of a strong acid optionally followed by hydrate formation. 4. A process according to part a of claim 3 characterised in that the reaction is performed in the presence of cuprous chloride as a carrier or promoter. 5. A process according to part b of claim 3 characterised in that the strong acid is trifluoroacetic acid. 6. A process for the manufacture of 4 4 chlorophenyl benzylalcohol which comprises reducing 4 4 chlorophenyl benzaldehyde or the hydrate thereof by a known procedure. 7. A process for the manufacture of 4 4 chlorophenyllbenzyl chloride or bromide which comprises carrying out in sequence the steps of i , reducing 4 4 chLorophenyllbenzaldehyde or the hydrate thereof, and ii , reacting the tkus formed 4 4 chlorophenyl benzyl alcohol with a conventional chlorinating or brominating agent in both steps using known procedures. 8. A process for the manufacture of a compound of the formula EMI14.1 wherein Re is hydrogen or a 1 4C alkyl radical, andRf is a l 4C alkyl radical or a phenyl radical optionally bearing a halogeno radical, or a baseaddition salt or a l 4C alkyl ester thereof which comprises carrying out the known steps of reacting a base addition salt of 4 4 chlorophenyl benzyl alcohol with a halogenated compound of the formula Hal CReRf CO9Rg V wherein Re and Rf have the meanings defined above, Rg is hydrogen or a l 4C alkyl radical, and Hal. is a chloro, bromo or iodo radical, followed if necessary by hydrolysis to the carboxylic acid, base addition salt formation or 1 4C alkyi ester formation depending on the nature of Rg said process characterised in that the 4 4 chlorophenyl benzyl alcohol is obtained by reduction of 4 4 chlorophenyl benzaldehyde or the hydrate thereof by a known procedure. 9. A process according to claim 8 characterised in that in the starting material of formula V Re andRf are both methyl radicals. 10. A process for the manufacture of a compound of the formula EMI15.1 wherein Re is hydrogen or a 1 4C alkyl radical, andRf is a l 4C alkyl radical or a phenyl radical optionally bearing a halogen radical, or a baseaddition salt or l 4C alkyl ester thereof which comprises carrying out the known steps of reacting 4 4 chlorophenyl benzyl chloride or bromide with a base addition salt of a compound of the formula HO CReRf C02Rg VI wherein Re, Rf and Rg have the meanings defined above, followed if necessary, by hydrolysis to the carboxylic acid, base addition salt formation or l 4C alkyl ester formation, depending on the nature of Rg said process characterised in that the 4 4 chlorophenyl benzyl chloride or bromide is obtained by reduction of 4 4 chlorophenyl benzaldehyde or the hydrate thereof to give 4 4 chlorophenyl benzyl alcohol which is then reacted with a suitable chlorinating or brominating agent in both cases, using known procedures. 11. A process according to claim 10 characterised in that in the. starting material of formula VIRe and Rf are both methyl radicals, or Re is a methyl or ethyl radical and Rf is a phenyl radical. Claims for Austria ãt is clailned is 1. A process for the manufacture of 4 4 chlorophenyl benzaldehyde having the formula EMI16.1 or the hydrate thereof characterised by formylating 4 chlorobiphenyl. 2. A process according to claim 1 characterised in that the formylation is performed by reacting 4 chloro biphenyl a , with a mixture of carbon monoxide and hydrogen chloride in the presence of aluminium chloride or b , with hexamethylenetetramine in the presence of a strong acid optionally followed by hydrate formation. 3. A process according to part a of claim 2 characterised in that the reaction is performed in the presence of cuprous chloride as a carrier or promoter. 4 A process according to part b of claim 2 characterised in that the strong acid is trifluoroacetic acid. 5. A process for the manufacture of 4 4 chlorophenyl henzylalcohol which comprises reducing 4 4 chlorophenyl benzaldehyde or the hydrate thereof by a known procedure. 6. A process for the manufacture of 4 4 chlorophenyl benzyl chloride or bromide which comprises carrying out in sequence the steps of i , reducing 4 4 chlorophenyl benzaldehyde or the hydrate thereof, and ii , reacting the thus formed 4 4 chlorophenyl benzyl alcohol with a conventional chlorinating or brominating agent in both steps using known procedures. A A process for the manufacture of a compound of the formula EMI17.1 wherein Re is hydrogen or a l 4C alkyl radical, andRf is a l 4C alkyl radical or a phenyl radical optionally bearing a halogeno radical, or a baseaddition salt or a 1 4C alkyl ester thereof which comprises carrying out the known steps of reacting a base addition salt of 4 4 chlorophenyl benzyl alcohol with a halogenated compound of the formula Hal CReRf C02Rg V wherein Re and Rf have the meanings defined above, Rg is hydrogen or a l 4C alkyl radical, and Hal. is a chloro, bromo or iodo radical, followed if necessary by hydrolysis to the carboxylic acid, base addition salt formation or l 4C alkyl ester formation depending on the nature of Rg said process characterised in that the 4 4 chlorophenyl benzyl alcohol is obtained by reduction of 4 4 chlorophenyl benzaldehyde or the hydrate thereof by a known procedure. 8. A process according to claim 7 characterised in that in the starting material of formula V Re andRf are both methyl radicals. 9. A process for the manufacture of a compound of the formula EMI18.1 wherein Re is hydrogen or a l 4C alkyl radical, andRf is a 1 4C alkyl radical or a phenyl radical optionally bearing a halogen radical, or a baseaddition salt or l 4C alkyl ester thereof which comprises carrying out the known steps of reacting 4 4 chlorophenyl benzyl chloride or bromide with a base addition salt of a compound of the formula HO CReRf C02Rg VI wherein Re, Rf and Rg have the meanings defined above, followed if necessary, by hydrolysis to the carboxylic acid, base addition salt formation or l 4C alkyl ester formation, depending on the nature of Rg said process characterised in that the 4 4 chlorophenyl benzyl chloride or bromide is obtained by reduction of 4 4 chlorophenyl benzaldehyde or the hydrate thereof to give 4 4 chlorophenyl benzyl alcohol which is then reacted with a suitable chlorinating or brominating agent in both cases, using known procedures 10. A process according to claim 9 characterised in that in the starting material of formula VIRe and Rf are both methyl radicals, or Re is a methyl or ethyl radical and Rf is a phenyl radical.

## Description
Benzaldehyde Derivatives for Use as a Chemical Intermdediate This invention relates to a novel benzaldehyde derivative which is useful as a chemical intermediate, to a process for its manufacture, and to processes for its conversion to valuable end products. More particularly the invention concerns the novel compound 4 4 chlorophenyl benzaldehyde, its production from 4 chlorobiphenyl and its conversion to 4 4 chlorophenyl benzyl alcohol and 4 4 chlorophenyl benzyl chloride which are themselves useful intermediates in the manufacture of known antiarthritic benzyloxyacetic acid derivatives. The production of various p substituted benzaldehyde derivatives is described in West German Offenlegungsschrift No. 2801887. However there is no mention of the production of the compound of formula I below. According to the invention there is provided the novel chemical intermediate of the formula EMI1.1 known as 4 4 chlorophenyl benzaldehyde, or the hydrate thereof. The invention further provides a process for the manufacture of the intermediate of formula I which comprises reacting 4 chlorobiphenyl with a mixture of carbon monoxide and hydrogen chloride in the presence of aluminium chloride optionally followed by conventional hydrate formation. It will be appreciated that this process is an example of the well known Gatterman Koch reactions reviewed by Olah and Kulin in Friedel Crafts and related reactions Vol. ISIS, p.1154 1162, InterscienceNew York, 1963 and may be carried out under the standard conditions well known in the art for that reaction. Accordingly, the process is generally carried out under a pressure in the range, for example, 70 to 250 bars and at a temperature in the range, for example, 20 to 50 C. Alternatively, the process may be carried out in the presence of cuprous chloride as a promoter or carrier in which case a reduced pressure in the range, for example, 1 to 5 bars and a temperature in the range, for example, 20 to 1000C. may be employed.In either case the process may conveniently be carried out in the presence of a suitable solvent or diluent, for example carbon disulphide, benzene, chlorobenzene or nitrobenzene. The hydrogen chloride and carbon monoxide may be provided from separate pressurised cylinders.Alternatively, they may be conveniently provided as an equi molar mixture by the reaction of chlorosulphonic acid with formic acid, or by the reaction of benzoyl chloride with formic acid. As a further alternative, the necessary hydrogen chloride may be produced in situ b,y tne reaction of aluminium chloride with water since less than stoichiometric quantities of hydrogen chloride may be used in the process and the carbon monoxide provided from an external pressurised cylinder. The invention also provides a further process for the manufacture of the intermediate of formula I or a hydrate thereof which comprises reacting 4 chlorobiphenyl with hexamethylenetetramine in the process of a strong acid optionally followed by hydrate formation. A particularly suitable strong acid is, for example, trifluoroacetic acid, which may also conveniently function as solvent for the process. The process is conveniently performed at a temperature in the range, for example, 20 1000C. The intermediate of formula I may be converted to the known chemical intermediate 4 4 chlorophenyl benzyl alcohol by a conventional reduction process, which process is provided as a further feature of the invention. Suitable reducing conditions are provided by, for example, alkali metal complex hydrides such as sodium or potassium borohydride or lithium aluminium hydride, catalytic hydrogenation such as hydrogenation in the presence of palladium charcoal, sodium dithionite, and reducing metal systems, such as those based on iron, nickel or zinc. The reduction may be carried out under the standard conditions well known for the above mentioned reagents. Thus, in general, the reduction is carried out at a temperature in the range, for example, 20 to 1000C., and in the presence of a suitable solvent or diluent, for example water, ethanol, 2 propanol or acetic acid, or a mixture of two or more thereof it being understood that when lithium aluminium hydride is u as reducing agent, a non aqueous solvent or diluent, such as tetrahydrofuran must be used. The starting intermediate of formula I may conveniently be reduced in the above process immediately following its formation in the Gatterman Koch reaction and without being separately purified. In which case, no additional solvent need be added, but it is desirable to add a catalytic amount of a suitable quaternary ammonium salt such as cetyltrimethylammonium chloride as a phase transfer catalyst. 4 4 Chlorophenyl benzyl alcohol and the corresponding benzyl chloride are intermediates known for use in the synthesis of anti arthritic benzyloxyacetic acid derivatives a of tbe general formula EMI4.1 wherein Ra and Rb are independently hydrogen or l 4C alkyl radicals, and the base addition salts and simple esters thereof, and in particular of the compound wherein Ra and Rb are both methyl radicals UK patent specification Serial No 1,140,7481 and b , of the general formula EMI4.2 wherein Re is hydrogen or a l 4C alkyl radical, andRd is a phenyl radical optionally bearing a halogeno radical, and the base addition salts and simple esters thereof, and in particular of the compounds wherein Rc is a methyl or ethyl radical and Rd is a phenyl radical European patent application,publication No. 9306A1 . 4 4Chlorophenyl benzyl alcohol has hitherto only been obtained by hydrolysis of 4 4 chlorophenyl benzyl chloride which was itself obtained by reaction of 4 chlorobiphenyl with chloromethyl ethers UK patent specification Serial No. 1,140,748 . Although this latter procedure is satisfactory for small scale manufacture, it is unsuited to large scale manufacture except in expensive, specially built plant because of the difficulties associated with handling the potentially toxic chloromethyl ethers. Further, since 4 4 chlorophenylAbenzyl alcohol may be readily converted by redaction with conventional chlorinating or brominating agents well known in the art for example thionyl chloride, phosphorus tribromide or phosphoryl bromide1 into the corresponding benzyl chloride or bromide, the use of the intermediate of formula I also allows these latter compounds to be obtained if necessary on a large scale from 4 chlorobiphenyl without the use of hazardous chloromethyl ethers. The latter process is also provided as a feature of the. invention. According to a further feature of the invention there is provided a process for the manufacture of a compound of the formula EMI5.1 wherein Re is hydrogen or a 1 4C alkyl radical., andRf is a l 4C alkyl radical or a phenyl radical optionally bearing a halogen radical, or a baseaddition salt or a 1 4C alkyl ester thereof which comprises carrying out the known steps of reacting a base addition salt of 4 4 chlorophenyl benzyl alcohol with a halogenated compound of the formula Hal.CReRf.C02Rg V wherein Re and Rf have the meanings defined above, Rg is hydrogen or a l 4C alkyl radical, and Hal. is a chloro, bromo or iodo radical, followed if necessary, by hydrolysis to the carboxylic acid, base addition salt formation or l 4C alkyl ester formation depending on the nature of Rg said process characterised in that the 4 4 chlorophenylAbenzyl alcohol is obtained by reduction of the intermediate of formula , for example using a procedure specified hereinbefore. The known steps in the above process are described in UR patent specificaiton Serial No.1,140,748, and European patent application, publicationNo. 9306A1 which documents are incorporated herein by reference. However, the necessary base addition salts of 4 C4 chlorophenyl benzyl alcohol are, for example, alkali metal salts such as the sodium or potassium salt and a preferred halogenated compound of formula V is, for example, ethyl 2 bromo 2 methylpropionate when the compound 2 4 4 chlorophenyl benzyloxy 2 methylpropionic acid, or a base addition salt thereof, is required as final product. The reaction with the halogenated compound of formula V may be carried out at a temperature in the range, for example, 20 1000C. and in a solvent or diluent, for example, chlorobenzene, toluene, xylene or dimethylformamide, or in a mixture of two or more thereof. Rg is preferably a methyl, ethyl orbutyl radical, and the necessary hydrolysis step in such a case is preferably carried out using an aqueous alkali metal hydroxide, for example aqueous sodium or potassium hydroxide, at a temperature in the range, for example 20 to 1000C., and optionally in the presence of a solvent or diluent, for example ethanol, methanol or 2 propanol.The initially formed alkali metal salt may be converted to. the free acid by a conventional acidification procedure. The process is of particular value for the production of that compound of formula IV in which Re and Rf are both methyl radicals, or non toxic baseaddition salts thereof. According to a further feature of the invention there is provided a process for the manufacture of a compound of the formula IV wherein Re andRf have the meanings defined above, or a base addition salt or a l 4C alkyl ester thereof which comprises carrying out the known steps of reacting 4 4 chlorophenyl benzyl chloride or bromide with a base addition salt of a compound of the formula HO. CReRf.CO2Rg VI wherein Re, Rf and Rg have the meanings defined above, followed if necessary, by hydrolysis to the carboxylic acid, base addition salt formation or 1 4C alkyl ester fbrmation, depending on the nature of Rg, said process characterised in that the 4 4 chlorophenyl benzyl chloride or bromide is obtained by reduction of the intermediate of formula I to give 4 4 chlorophenyl benzyl alcohol which is then reacted with a suitable chlorinating or brominating agent, for example using a procedure specified hereinbefore. The known steps in the above process are also described in UK patent specification Serial No.1,140,748 and European patent application, publicationNo. 9306A1. However, suitable base addition salts of the compounds of formula VI are, for example, alkali metal salts such as the sodium or potassium salts, and when Rg is hydrogen, di salts such as di alkali metal salts are preferred, The salts may conveniently be formed by reaction of the compound of formula VI with an appropriate base, such as sodium or potassium hydroxide or hydride, prior to the main process.The reaction of the 4 4 chlorophenylAbenzyl chloride or bromide with a base addition salt of a compound of formula VI may be generally carried out in a solvent or diluent, such as chlorobenzene, toluene, xylene or dimethylformamide, or in a mixture of two or more thereof, and at a temperature in the range, for example, 20 1500C., and more particularly, 60 1200C. Preferred compounds of formula VI are, for example, the ethyl esters of 2 hydroxy2 phenylpropionic acid, 2 hydroxy 2 phenylbutyric acid and 2 hydroxy 2 methylpropionic acid. Preferred values for Rg and suitable hydrolysis conditions are, for example, as described for the preceding process. The process is of particular value for the production of those compounds of formula IV wherein Re and Rf are both methyl radicals or Re is a methyl or ethyl radical and Rf is a phenyl radical, or a baseaddition salt thereof. The invention is illustrated by the following non limiting Examples in which i all evaporations unless otherwise stated were carried out under reduced pressure and ii yields, where given, are purely illustrative and are not to be construed as the maximum attainable.Example 1 A mixture of 4 chlorobiphenyl 18.8 g. and aluminium chloride 29.5 g. was stirred in chlorobenzene 150 ml. at 55 600C., in a pressure vessel. The vessel was pressurised to 30 psi 2.1 bar with an equimolar mixture of carbon monoxide and hydrogen chloride prepared by the action of 98 lOO formic acid on chlorosulphonic acid . These reaction conditions were maintained for a period of 4 days. After this time the reaction mixture was added, with stirring, to a mixture of ice 500 g. and water 500 g. . The organic phase was extracted with chlorobenzene 50 my, . The combined organic phases were then washed successively with 2M hydrochloric acad 100 ml. and water 2 x 100 ml. . The organic phase containing 4 4 chloro phenyllbenzaldehyde was then stirred with an aqueous solution of sodium borohydride 1.2 g. 0.03 moles in water 20 ml. containing cetyltrimethylammonium bromide 0.1 g. and potassium hydroxide 0.1 g. for 3 hours at 35 400 C. After the reduction was complete the excess sodium borohydride was destroyed by the careful addition of a small amount of dilute hydrochloric acid. The organic phase was then washed with water 2 x 100 ml. and the organic solvent removed by azeotropic distillation with water. The aqueous slurry of crude product was filtered and the precipitate was washed with water 100 ml. and dried.The solid 17.2 g. obtained was recrystallised from toluene cyclohexane to give 4 4 chlorophenyl benzyl alcohol mop. 134 1350C. in 52 overall yield.Example 2 To a solution of 4 chlorobiphenyl 18.8 g. in chlorobenzene 75 ml. contained in a pressure vessel was added aluminium chloride 26.6 g. , cuprous chloride 3.7 g. and water 0.25 ml. . The vessel was evacuated to approximately 0.0267 bar, agitated and pressurised to approximately 2.1 bar with carbon monoxide. The reaction mixture was then heated at approximately 400C. for 30 hours, additional carbon monoxide being added as required to keep the pressure constant. The reaction mixture was then poured, with stirring, into cold water 250 ml. and the organic phase separated and washed consecutively with equal volumes of 10 w v sodium acetate solution and then water.The organic phase was then separated, dried Na2S042 and evaporated onto chromatographic silica gel 40 g. . The residue obtained was added to the top of a column of chromatographic silica gel 160 g made up in carbon tetrachloride. The column was first eluted with carbon tetrachloride and then with chloroform, The initial fractions 2 x 50 ml containing mainly residual 4chlorophenyl and chlorobenzene çere discarded.Subsequent fractions were combined and evaporated to give 4 4 chlorophenyl benzaldehyde, as a solid in 43 yield Em.p. 117 1190C. after recrystallisation from acetonitrile NMR CDC13 100 MHz .S 7.35 7.65 multiplet, 4 aromatic protons 7.87 AB quartet, 4 aromatic protons, J 9H 10.05 singlet, 1 aldehydic proton ppm relative to TMSll. Example 3 Thionyl chloride 41.8 g. was added dropwise during 2 hours to a stirred suspension of 4 4 chlorophenyl benzyl alcohol 50 g. in toluene 500 ml. andN,N dimethylformamide 5 ml. maintained at 18 220C. The resulting solution was stirred for a further hour and then added to a stirred solution of sodium acetate 200 g. in water 1 1. . The organic phase was washed with water 500 ml. , dried Na2S04 and evaporated to give 4 4 chlorophenyl benzyl chloride as a solid in 50 yield m.p. 66 690C., after recrystallisation from petroleum ether b.p. 60 800C. J. Example 4 A solution of methyl 2 hydroxy 2 phenylbutyrate 8.9 g. in dry dimethylformamide 9 ml. was added to a stirred suspension of sodium hydroxide 2.13 g. 57 dispersion in mineral oil in dry dimethylformamide 40 ml. over 45 minutes, under an atmosphere of nitrogen.The temperature of the solution rose to 440C, and after stirring for a further 2 hours, a solution of 4 4 chloro phenyl benzyl chloride 10.9 g. in cyclohexane 108 ml. was added and the solution was stirred at room temperature for 70 hours, Formic acid 1.8 ml. was added and the solution was poured into water t60 ml. . The organic phase was separated and washed with water 60 ml. .Methanol 7 ml. and sodium hydroxide 3.7 gtl were added to the separated organic phase and the mixture was heated under reflux for 2 hours. Cyclohexane 12.5 ml. was added and the stirred mixture was heated to distillation, After collection of 16.5 ml.of the distillate the mixture was cooled to 20 to 250CThe solid which formed was collected, washed with cyclohexane 75 ml. , dried and added to a stirred mixture of ethyl acetate 100 ml. and 2M hydrochloric acid 100 ml. .The organic phase was separated, washed with water 50 ml . and evaporated to give an oil which after recrystallisation from a mixture of ethyl acetate 11 ml. and petroleum spirit b.p. 60 800C. 79ml. gave 2 4 4 chlorophenyl benzyloxy 2 phenylbutyric acid 12.7 g. , m.p. 128 1300C. Example 5 Sodium hSdride 1.0 g. of 60 w w dispersion in oil was added to dry N,N dimethylformamide 65 ml. under a nitrogen atrosphere. A solution of the methyl 2 hydroxyisobutyrate 2.55 g. in N,N dimethylformamide 15 ml. was added dropwise to the stirred suspension during 30 minutes maintaining the temperature in the range 20 to 250C. The resultant solution was stirred for a further 1 hour. A solution of 4 4 chlorophenyl benzyl chloride 5.15 g. in dry N,N dimethylformamide 20 ml. was added to the reaction mixture during 30 minutes maintaining the temperature in the range 20 to 250C. The subsequent mixture was stirred for 18 hours at 30 C under a nitrogen atmosphere. The precipitate was removed by filtration and the filtrate evaporated.The resultant oil was mixed with ethanol 100 ml. , water 20 ml. and caustic liquor 4 ml. and then heated at 1000C. for 1 hour. The mixture was again evaporated and the residue was partitioned three times between water 500 ml. and toluene 100 ml.lThe aqueous phase was steam flistilled to remove any remaining toluene and acidified with concentrated hydrochloric acid t ca 5 ml. to give 2 4 4 chloro phenyl benzyloxyj 2 methylpropionic acid as a white solid 3.5 g. ., m.p. 141 1450C. Example 6 Trifluoroacettc acid 150 ml. was added slowly to a mixture of 4 chlorobiphenyl 18.9 g. and hexamethylenetetramine 28.0 g. . An exothermic reaction occurred with the temperature of the mixture rising to 50 to 700C. The mixture was heated under reflux for 12 to 16 hours, the progress of the reaction being followed by thin layer chromatography SiO2 CHC13 . The solution obtained was concentrated to low volume in vacuo and the residual liquors added to an excess of ice water. The mixture was basified to pH 9 10 with solid sodium carbonate and then extracted with ether 3 x 200 ml. . The extracts were dried MgS04 and evaporated. The solid residue obtained was recrystallised once from petroleum ether b.p. 60 800C and once from acetonitrile to give 4 4 chlorophenyl benzaldehyde as a solid in 30 yield, having an identical NMR spectrum to that described in Example 2.