# Apparatus for determining the position of a source of electromagnetic radiation relative to a remote object.

## Abstract
Apparatus for determining the position of a source 30 of electromagnetic radiation relative to a remote object 20 is disclosed. A multicomponent radiating means 40 of unknown orientation is provided having components cen tered about the origin of the source. A plurality of electrical signals are applied to the components of the multicomponent source to generate a plurality of electromagnetic fields. The electromagnetic fields are distinguishable from one another. A multicomponent receiving means 21 is disposed on the remote object. The multicomponent receiving means is pro vided with at least three orthogonal components 22, 23, 24 for detecting and measuring components of the electro magnetic fields transmitted from the source. The source and receiving means are adapted for operation at a separation distance sufficient to ensure that the far field components of the electromagnetic fields are substantially greater in mag nitude than the near field components of the fields. Analyzing means 50 is associated with the receiver for converting the components of the electromagnetic fields into source position relative to the remote object without a priori knowledge of the orientation of the sensor or the relative orientation of its com ponents. The analyzing means operates open loop with respect to the source and determines source position with at least one ambiguous combination of orientation or position.