# Mold intended for use in the manufacture of concrete roof tiles.

## Abstract
In the manufacture of concrete roof tiles, a mold is used with a surface against which the tile being made rests during the molding and drying procedure. Said surface determines the appearance of the back of the tile, while its front is formed by a profile means. According to the invention the mold com prises a body 1 having torsional and bending rigidity and a cover of wear resistent rubber 2 which covers at least one side of the body. The outside 6 of the cover forms said mold surface.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. Mold intended to be used in the manufacture of concrete roof tiles, said mold, with a surface against which the tile being made is to rest during a molding and drying procedure, thereby determining the appearance of the back of the tile while the front of the tile is formed by passing the tile being made and resting on the mold through a profiling machine, characterized in that the mold comprises a body 1 having torsional and bending rigidity, one side 3 of which agreeing as to shape at least approximately with the appearance of said mold surface and a cover 2 of wear resistent rubber or plastic covering said one side of the body, the surface 6 of the cover facing away from said side of the body constituting the mold surface. 2. Mold according to Claim 1, characterized in that the surface of the cover 2 facing the body 1 is made with wart projections 4 which fit into corresponding holes 5 in the body 1 . 3. Mold according to Claim 1, characterized in that the cover 2 is made so that it can be forced over the body 1 . 4. Mold according to Claim 1, characterized in that the cover 2 is vulcanized onto the body 1 . 5. Mold according to Claim 1, characterized in that the body 1 is made of expanded metal, for example, and the rubber cover is thus fastened to the body 1 via the cavities in the expanded metal.

## Description
Mold intended for use in the manufacture of concrete roof tilesThe present invention relates to a mold intended for use in the manufacture of concrete roof tiles, said form, with a surface against which the tile being made lies during a molding and drying procedure, determining the appearance of the back of the tile, the front of the tile being formed by passing the tile being made and resting in the mold through a profiling machine.Conventional molds of the above mentioned type are usually made of light metal and are subjected to heavy wear and fatigue so that each mold only lasts for a relatively limited number of roof tiles. Another and perhaps even more serious disadvantage is that a release agent is required in the mold in order to be able to separate the tile from the mold after drying. Puel oil is usually used as a release agent, and it would be desirable to avoid using this primarily for environmental considerations but also in view of the rising price of oil. Yet another disadvantage of molds of conventional type is the high noise level during manufacture as a result of metal to metal contact while transporting the mold with a tile resting thereon.The purpose of the present invention is to achieve a mold for manufacturing concrete roof tile which does not have the above mentioned disadvantages. This is achieved by the wear portion of the mold being made of a wear resistent elastomer, and the mold having the characteristics revealed in the accompanying main claim.To prevent slipping between the body and the cover, the cover can be provided with nipple like projections which fit into corresponding holes in the body. Alternatively, it is possible to vulcanize the cover and the body together and even with this process the metal body can be used repeatedly. By making the cover so that it can be forced over the body, however, costs may be kept down for replacing covers. The cover is quite simply forced over the old body after the old worn out cover has been removed,The invention will now be described in more detail with reference to the accompanying drawing in which Figs. la and lb show schematically a cover and a body, respectively, in a mold for manufacturing ridge tile. Fig. 2 shows in detail an example of how slipping can be prevented between the cover and the body.In the drawing, 1 indicates a body having torsional and bending rigidity, of sheet steel, aluminum or composite material, for example, eventuelly having a so called honeycomb core. 2 designates a cover of wear resistent rubber. The top side 3 of the body as shown in the drawing is made so that it at least approximately agrees with the desired shape of the mold. The cover 2 is made so that it can be forced over the body 1. To prevent slipping between the body 1 and the cover 2, the cover is provided on its inside with pegs 4 see Fig. 2 which fit into corresponding holes 5 in the body. The top surface 6 of the cover 2 as shown in the drawing is the mold surface in the mold which determines the appearance of the back of the tile.It is clear that the invention must not be considered limited to the embodiment described above and shown in the drawing.Rather, it can be modified in many ways within the scope of the inventive idea. For example, the cover can be made so that it encloses the body on all sides. The cover should then suitably be vulcanized together.