# Method for inhibiting the growth of clostridium botulinum and the formation of enterotoxin in poultry and fish products, and in smoked meat.

## Abstract
The growth of Clostridium botulinum and the produc tion of enterotoxin in meat, poultry and fish products, such as smoked bacon, is inhibited by adding to such products an effective amount of a compound selected from the group consisting of hypophosphorous acid, and salts thereof. Such additives may be present in combination with minor amounts, i.e., 40 ppm of sodium nitrite.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A meat, poultry or fish product to which has been added from about lot,000 ppm to about 3,000 ppm of a compound selected from hypophosphorous acid, sodium hypophosphite, potassium hypophosphite, calcium hypophosphite, magnesium hypophosphite and manganese hypophosph ite. 2. The meat product of claim 1 to which has been added sodium hypophosphite. 3. The meat product of claim 1 which also contains sodium nitrite. 4. The product of claim 1 which has been smoked. 5. A method of inhibiting the production of enterotoxin from Clostridium botulinum in smoked meat, poultry and fish products which comprises the step of adding thereto from about 1,000 ppm to about 3,000 ppm of a compound selected from hypophosphorous acid, sodium hypophosphite, potassium hypophosphite, calcium hypophosphite, magnesium hypophosphite and manganese hypophosph ite. 6. The method of claim 5 wherein sodium hypophosphite is added to the product. 7. The method of claim 5 wherein sodium nitrite is also added to the product. 8. The method of claim 7 wherein the product is smoked. 9. Bacon, which has been smoked in the presence of from about 1,000 ppm to about 3,000 ppm of a compound selected from hypophosphorous acid, sodium hypophosphite, potassium hypophosphite, calcium hypophosphite, magnesium hypophosphite and manganese hypophosphite. 10. The bacon of claim 9 which has been smoked in the presence of sodium hypophosphite. 11. The bacon of claim 9 which has been smoked in the presence of sodium nitrite. 12. A method of inhibiting the production of enterotoxin from Clostridium botulinum in smoked bacon which comprises the step of adding thereto from about 1,000 ppm to about 3,000 ppm of a compound selected from hypophosphorous acid, sodium hypophosphite, potassium hypophosphite, calcium hypophosphite, magnesium hypophosphite and manganese hypophosphite. 13. The method of claim 12 wherein the sodium hypophosphite is added to the bacon. 14. The method of claim 12 wherein sodium nitrite is added to the bacon. 15. The method of claim 5 wherein said product is smoked fish. 16. The method of claim 5 wherein said product is a comminuted meat product. 17. The method of claim 5 wherein said product is a poultry product.

## Description
COMPOSITIONS AND METHOD FOR INHIBITING THE GROWTH OFCLOSTRIDIUM BOTULINUM AND THE FORMATION OF ENTEROTOXININ MEAT, POULTRY AND FISH PRODUCTS This invention relates to a composition which inhibits the growth of Clostridium botulinum in meat, poultry and fish products. For many years, it has been standard practice to add sodium nitrite to preserve meat products such as ham, bacon, and other meats, e.g., frankfurters, bologna, Thuringer sausages and salami, having a small particle size. The sodium nitrite is added to inhibit the growth of Clostridium botulinum and the production of enterotoxin in the meat products during storage. The addition of sodium nitrite also maintains a pleasing pink color in the meat. The presence of sodium nitrite as a food additive, and particularly the presence of sodium nitrite in bacon and other smoked meats that are cooked at high temperatures, has become of increasing concern with the knowledge that sodium nitrite can combine with secondary and tertiary amines in cooked meats particularly bacon to form nitrosamines. Many nitrosamines have been shown to be carcinogens in animals, and the nitrosamine that is commonly found in fried bacon, nitrosopyrrolidine, is a known carcinogen. It is quite obvious that reducing the nitrites present in smoked meat and fish is a desirable goal, but it is also necessary to prevent the production of deadly botulinal toxin that may occur on storage.Because of the widespread concern with the use, toxicity and necessity of nitrite addition in food products, this problem has received increasing attention.It is known to reduce the amount of sodium nitrite by substituting for a part of it large amounts of sorbic acid and its salts.This combination of additives has the disadvantage that some persons of the population have developed allergic reactions after eating lnitrite sorbate smoked products. Another approach to solving the N nitrosamine problem is the addition of materials to suppress Nnitrosamine formation. A cooperative American MeatInstitute study which involved eight firms using their commercial production techniques, indicated that in commercial production, a tocopherol in combination with sodium erythorbate isoascorbate or sodium ascorbate did suppress N nitrosamine formation. Dispersion of the a tocopherol in the pickle was occasionally a problem, and a surface active agent was mixed with the a tocopherol to improve dispersion. The lowest level of nitrosopyrrolidine 0.4 to 2 parts per million was obtained with 120 parts per million nitrite, 550 parts per million erythorbate or ascorbate and 550 parts per million a tocopherol. Since June 15, 1978 the United States Department of Agriculture has required that all bacon produced using nitrite must employ 120 parts per million of sodium nitrite or 148 parts per million of potassium nitrite to prevent formation of botulinal toxin and 550 parts per million sodium ascorbate or sodium erythorbate to inhibit formation of nitrosamines. More recently, the United States Department ofAgriculture has approved a bacon process using a blend of microorganisms lactobacilli that is incorporated in the curing pickle to promote production of lactic acid and reduce potential nitrosamine formation. During smoking, the culture reduces the pH of the meat, which, in turn, reduces the residual nitrite content in the final product. Both factors, lower pH and reduced residual nitrite content, reduce subsequent nitrosamine formation at the time of frying. The current levels of 120 parts per million sodium nitrite and 550 parts per million sodium erythorbate isoascorbate are still employed in the process. Sodium nitrite is also added to comminuted meat products obtained by different treating operations such as grinding, chopping, slicing and emulsifying and are completely mixed up to a certain stage of the manufacturing cycle with salt and eventually other ingredients. When used throughout the following specification and claims, the term comminuted meat products shall include but not be limited to chopped or ground beef, pork, lamb, turkey and chicken which may be mixed with each other and with protein isolates from soya beans, whey, and single cell proteins from various fermentation processes. In accordance with the present invention, the growth of Clostridium botulinum and the production of botulinal toxin is inhibited during storage of meat, poultry and fish products by addition thereto of an effective amount of a compound selected from hypophosphorous acid, sodium hypophosphite, potassium hypophosphite, calcium hypophosphite, magnesium hypophosphite and manganese hypophosphite. Sodium hypophosphite is conveniently used in the form of its monohydrate,NaH2PO2.H2O. When hypophosphorous acid or its nontoxic salts are present in the meat or fish product in effective quantities the amount 120 to 156 ppm of sodium nitrite that is customarily added to such meat and fish products may be reduced to one third of that amount or eliminated entirely.The addition of hypophosphorous acid and or a salt of hypophosphorous acid is believed to suppress or block the formation of N nitrosamines upon cooking meat and fish products containing sodium nitrite. The amount of hypophosphite salt or hypophosphorous acid that is added may vary with the meat product, the particular salt and the presence or absence of sodium nitrite and desirably is about 1,0003,000 parts per million. It is preferred that about 3,000 parts per million of hypophosphite salt be added if all sodium nitrite is eliminated from the meat or fish product. About 1,000 parts per million of sodium hypophosphite is effective when 40 parts per million of sodium nitrite is also present in the meat composition. As indicated above, the potassium and calcium or manganese hypophosphite salts may be employed in similar amounts with good results. The choice of a particular hypophosphite salt will depend upon its cost and relative effectiveness. It is preferred that the meat or fish product be smoked for best results. In the practice of the present invention, the hypophoaphorous acid or its salt may be added to the meat or fish directly, or added with the pickle in solution or solid form , or rubbed into the meat or fish. While hypophosphorous acid and its salts may be added to fish and comminuted meat products, e.g., frankfurters, it is of particular advantage when added to meat products such as ham and bacon either before or after smoking as bacon in particular has the potential of forming nitrosamines if cooked in the presence of substantial amounts of sodium nitrite. The invention is further illustrated by the following examples. Temperatures are in degrees Centigrade and quantities are expressed in parts by weight and parts per million ppm unless otherwise indicated. EXAMPLE I The effect of variable quantities of sodium nitrite and sodium hypophosphite on the pH, color and odor of ground pork before and after heating to 550C is determined by placing in each of 11 beakers, 99 grams of ground pork fresh boneless pork hams . The cure ingredients are dissolved in 10 ml of water and adjusted to provide 1.5 sodium chloride, 0.3 CURAFOS a curing agent manufactured by the Stauffer Chemical Company, Westport, Connecticut 06880, and consisting of a blend of sodium tripolyphosphate and sodium hexametaphosphate and 550 ppm sodium erythorbate based on the weight of ground pork in each beaker . From 0 to 120 parts per million of sodium nitrite and from 0 to 4,000 parts per million of sodium hypophosphite are then added to the 11 beakers and the meat product in each beaker is mixed with the curing agent and additives. The quantities of sodium nitrite and sodium hypophosphite added to each of the 11 beakers is indicated in Table I samples 1 11 . The color, odor and pH of the meat is noted with respect to each of the 11 samples. The beakers are covered with aluminum foil and heated in a water bath at 550C for 7 hours. After heating the color, odor and p vof the meat in each beaker is again recorded.The results are summarized in Table I. It will be noted from Table I that the addition of sodium hypophosphite to ground pork at levels of 1,000 4,000 ppm has no adverse effect on pH, color or odor. EXAMPLE II A. Example I above is repeated using 57.5 gram samples of ground pork in each of 9 beakers and adjusting the 10 ml solutions of curing agent to provide 0.1 sucrose, 2.0 spdium chloride, 0.3 CURAFOS and 550 ppm sodium erythorbate based on the weight of the pork . The quantities of sodium nitrite and sodium hypophosphite added to each of the 9 beakers is indicated in Table II samples 1 9 . The pH of the meat in each sample is noted the beakers are covered with aluminum foil and heated in a water bath at 550C for 6 hours. The pH of the meat in each beaker is again recorded after heating. The effect of varying the quantities of sodium nitrite and sodium hypophosphite on the meat samples is shown in Table II column A . B. Example II A above is repeated as described in the preceding paragraph except that 55.5 grams of ground pork containing 30 fat is substituted for the fresh boneless pork hams used in Examples I andII A . The effect on pH of varying the amounts of sodium nitrite and sodium hypophosphite before and after heating is shown in Table II column B . It will be noted from Table II that within the variation and amounts of sodium hypophosphite investigated, there is no appreciable affect on the pH of the meat. EXAMPLE III This experiment was designed to test for botulinum toxin in unswollen packages of bacon 9 different bacon samples that have been treated with various quantities of sodium nitrite and sodium hypophosphite , after 4, 7, 10, 14, 25 and 56 days storage at 250C. Four packages of each bacon sample were prepared to be tested after each storage interval. However, those packages that swelled were not tested. Moreover, at the time that all packages of a particular bacon sample had swollen, toxin tests on that sample were terminated. Each of the 9 bacon samples weighs approximately 33 pounds and is manufactured in a commercial meat processing plant. A conventional pickle solution 550 ppm sodium erythorbate, 0.3 sodium tripolyphosphate, 1.5 sodium chloride and 0.11 sucrose based on meat weight is used . The pickle solutions that are used to prepare each of the 9 different bacon samples differed, however, in the quantities of sodium nitrite and sodium hypophosphite added. The pickle solutions are pumped into 10 12 pound pork bellies to get approximately a 13 weight gain. After pumping, the bellies are smoked for 7 hours to an internal temperature of 530C. The average yield after smoking is about 101 . The calculated amount of each ingredient that is designed to be present in each sample of smoked bacon is shown in Table III.Sample 9 containing 120 ppm sodium nitrite and no sodium hypophosphite is representative of bacon that is currently marketed.This sample is included as the sample for comparison since it represents the U.S. Department of Agricul ture s required level of sodium nitrite in bacon. The cured smoked bellies are cooled, sliced and each of the bacon samples are analyzed random onehalf pound samples for pH, fat, protein, salt, moisture and sodium nitrite according to Association ofOfficial Analytical Chemists procedures. These data are summarized in Table IV. Slices of bacon for testing are randomly picked from the 9 sliced bacon samples. The slices are uniformly inoculated 0.25 ml for 100 grams of bacon with a heat shocked suspension of Clostridium botulinum spores. The inoculum consists of 4 type A strains and 5 type B strains 36A, 52A, 77A, 10755A, ATCC 7949, 41B, 53B, 213B and Lamanna B . The average inoculum level is between 100 and 500 spores per gram of bacon.Twenty eight vacuum packages 100 grams of bacon per package of inoculated bacon is prepared for each of the 9 bacon samples. Four packages from each sample are examined immediately for toxicity, Clostridium botulinum, heat shocked and unheated . The results are summarized in Table V. The remaining 24 packages of each sample are incubated at 270C and tested for botulinum toxin after 0, 7, 10, 14, 24 and 56 days storage. Procedures for assaying samples for Clostridium botulinum toxin are the same as those reported byChristiansen et al. 1974 Appl. Microbiol. 27 733737 except that samples are homogenized prior to testing and toxicity of the supernatant fluid is determined immediately by injecting 2 mice with heated fluid and 3 mice with unheated fluid. The results of this experiment are summarized in Table VI, which shows in each column the number of packages found to be toxic over the number of packages tested. With respect to each bacon sample, the test is terminated when all of the packages remaining in storage become swollen. It will be noted from Table VI that toxins were found in packages that had not swollen 7 14 days storage .Samples containing 40 ppm sodium nitrite plus 1,000 3,000 ppm sodium hypophosphite showed a delay in onset of toxin formation in comparison to bacon containing only 40 ppm of sodium nitrite. These samples were also superior during storage to the control sample 9 120 ppm sodium nitrite . EXAMPLE IV Example III above is repeated in that 25 packages of each of the 9 bacon samples inoculated with Clostridium botulinum as described above in Example III are incubated at 270C and tested for toxicity at various intervals when the package becomes swollen. The cumulative number of packages that swell and the number of the swollen packages that are found to be toxic are summarized for days 9 through 49 in Table VII. The combined results days elapsed to first detection of toxin for the 9 inoculated samples as determined from Examples III and IV are summarized inTable VIII. It is noted from Table VIII that the samples containing 40 ppm sodium nitrite and 1,000 and 3,000 ppm sodium hypophosphite and only 3,000 ppm sodium hypophosphite showed a longer delay in onset of toxin formation in comparison to bacon containing only 120 ppm of sodium nitrite. EXAMPLE V Ten packages of bacon 100 grams each of uninoculated bacon were prepared from the 9 bacon samples produced in accordance with Example III and having the composition indicated in Table IV are incubated at 270C for various periods of time. The cumulative number of packages that swell and the storage time prior to the occurrence of swelling is summarized inTable IX. EXAMPLE VI In a manner similar to that described above inExample III, fresh salmon may be steeped in a pickle solution containing 1.8 kilograms of salt, 680 grams of sugar, 16 grams of saltpeter and 454 grams of sodium hypophosphite dissolved in 22.7 liters of water.After 12 hours, the fish is removed from the pickle solution washed under running water and smoked for 5 hours to an internal temperature of 800C. The smoked salmon may be stored over a substantial period of time without spoilage. EXAMPLE VII A typical frankfurter product may be prepared by combining the following ingredients for each 45.360Kg of meat processed Lean Beef Trimmings 15 fat 11.340 KgFat Beef Trimings 50 fat 11.340 KgLean Pork Trimmings 25 fat 11.340 KgFat Pork Trimmings 50 fat 11.340 KgWater 13.608 KgSalt 1.134 KgSugar 0.680 KgCorn Syrup 1.134 KgFlavoring or Spices 0.227 KgSodium Hypophosphite 0.136 KgSodium Erythorbate 0.025 KgSmoke Flavoring 0.085 Kg The above mixture of ground meats, water and spice is further mixed in a larger mixer or chopped on a bowl chopper. This mixture is passed through an emulsifier, stuffed into artificial casings and linked to the desired size. The frankfurters so obtained are processed in ovens until the internal temperature reaches 1600C. The frankfurters are allowed to cool to room temperature, chilled and packaged. The processed frankfurters, which contain 0.136Kg 3,000 parts per million of sodium hypophosphite may be stored over a substantial period of time without spoilage. In a similar formulation the amount of sodium hypophosphite per 45.360 Kg of meat may be reduced from 0.136 Kg to 0.045 Kg 1,000 ppm and 0.0018 Kg of sodium nitrite per 45.360 Kg of meat 40 parts per million may replace the larger quantity of sodium hypophosphite in the frankfurter formulation. Such processed frankfurters retain the desirable color and flavor characteristic difficult to reproduce without nitrite and are stable upon storage over a substantial period of time. EXAMPLE VIII A processed poultry product may be prepared by combining the following ingredients for each 45.36Kg of poultry processed Chicken 39.01 KgChicken Fat 6.35 KgWater 17.2 KgSalt 1.81 KgDextros 0.45 KgSeasonings 0.23 KgSodium Hypophosphite 0.136 KgSodium Erythorbate 0.025 Kg The above mixture of ground chicken, water and seasoning is further mixed in a larger mixer or chopped on a bowl chopper. This mixture is passed through an emulsifier, stuffed into artifical casings and linked to the desired size. The product so obtained is processed in ovens until the internal temperature reaches 1600C. They are then allowed to cool to room temperature, chilled and packaged. The processed chicken, which contains 0.136 Kg 3,000 parts per million of sodium hypophosphite may be stored over a substantial period of time without spoilage. In a similar formulation the amount of sodium hypophosphite per 45.360 Kg of poultry may be reduced from 0.136 Kg to 0.045 Kg 1,000 ppm and 0.0018 Kg of sodium nitrite per 45.360 Kg of poultry 40 parts per million may replace the larger quantity of sodium hypophosphite in the poultry formulation. Such processed poultry retains the desirable color and flavor characteristic difficult to reproduce without nitrite and are stable upon storage over a substantial period of time. TABLE I Color, Odor, and pH of Ground Pork Before and After Heating at 550C for 7 Hours. Trial 1. Before Heating After HeatingSample pH Color Odor pH Color Odor 1 5.81 pale pink no off odors 6.10 tan no off odors 2 3.80 6.15 3 5.86 6.14 4 5.83 6.13 5 5.80 6.12 6 5.81 tan 6.16 pink 7 5.80 tB 6.06 8 5.83 6.04 9 5.84 II 6.04 10 5.81 6.03 II 11 5.82 6.06Sample 1 contains neither sodium nitrite nor sodium hypophosphite.Sample 2 contains no sodium nitrite and 1,000 ppm sodium hypophosphite.Sample 3 contains no sodium nitrite and 2,000 ppm sodium hypophosphite.Sample 4 contains no sodium nitrite and 3,000 ppm sodium hypophosphite. Sample 5 contains no sodium nitrite and 4,000 ppm sodium hypophosphite.Sample 6 contains 40 ppm sodium nitrite and no sodium hypophosphite.Sample 7 contains 40 ppm sodium nitrite and 1,000 ppm sodium hypophos phite.Sample 8 contains 40 ppm sodium nitrite and 2,000 ppm sodium hypophos phite.Sample 9 contains 40 ppm sodium nitrite and 3,000 ppm sodium hypophos phite.Sample 10 contains 40 ppm sodium nitrite and 4,000 ppm sodium hypophos phite.Sample 11 contains 120 ppm sodium nitrite and no sodium hypophosphite. TABLE II pH of Ground Pork Before and After Heating at 550C for 6 Hours. Trial 2 and 3. Before Heating pH After Heating Sample A B A B 1 5.72 5.79 5.94 5.95 2 5.72 5.76 5.93 5.98 3 5.70 5.80 5.92 5.99 4 5.71 5.78 5.92 5.97 5 5.72 5.80 5.94 5.99 6 5.71 5.81 5.95 5.98 7 5.71 5.80 5.94 6.02 8 5.72 5.81 5.95 6.00 9 5.72 5.81 5.94 6.01Sample 1 contains neither sodium nitrite nor sodium hypophosphite.Sample 2 contains no sodium nitrite and 1,000 ppm sodium hypophosphite.Sample 3 contains no sodium nitrite and 2,000 ppm sodium hypophosphite.Sample 4 contains no sodium nitrite and 4,000 ppm sodium hypophosphite.Sample 5 contains 40 ppm sodium nitrite and no sodium hypophosphite.Sample 6 contains 40 ppm sodium nitrite and 1,000 ppm sodium hypophosphite. Sample 7 contains 40 ppm sodium nitrite and 2,000 ppm sodium hypophosphite.Sample 8 contains 40 ppm sodium nitrite and 4,000 ppm sodium hypophosphite.Sample 9 contains 120 ppm sodium nitrite and no sodium hypophosphite. TABLE III Desired Concentration of Ingredients in Finished Bacon Sodium Sodium Sodium Sodium Nitrite Hypophos Erythorbate TripolyphosphateSample ppm phite ppm ppm 1 0 0 550 0.3 2 0 500 550 0.3 3 0 1000 550 0.3 4 0 3000 550 0.3 5 40 0 550 0.3 6 40 500 550 0.3 7 40 1000 550 0.3 8 40 3000 550 0.3 9 120 0 550 0.3 TABLE III continued Desired Concentration of Ingredients in Finished Bacon Sodium Chloride Sucrose Sample 1 1.5 0.11 2 1.5 0.11 3 1.5 0.11 4 1.5 0.11 5 1.5 0.11 6 1.5 0.11 7 1.3 0.11 8 1.5 0.11 9 1.5 0.11 TABLE IV Chemical Analysis of Bacon Protein Moisture Salt Brine NaNO2Sample Fat ppm pH 1 56 8.2 33 1.7 4.9 1 6.70 2 56 .9 34 1.8 5.1 1 6.40 3 62 7.2 29 1.8 5.9 2 6.58 4 56 8.5 33 1.7 4.8 2 6.53 5 59 7.8 31 1.6 5.1 7 6.54 6 59 8.2 30 1.5 4.7 13 6.63 7 50 9.2 38 2.0 5.0 10 6.43 8 58 8.2 30 1.6 4.9 8 6.39 9 60 7.6 30 1.6 4.9 37 6.58 TABLE V Clostridium botulinum Counts of Inoculated Bacon C. botulinum gm Sodium Sodium Nitrite HypophosphiteSample ppm ppm Heat shockeda Unheated 1 0 0 150 280 2 0 500 45 280 3 0 1000 720 720 4 0 3000 130 130 5 40 0 230 280 6 40 500 3300 1400 7 40 1000 720 280 8 40 3000 720 720 9 120 0 720 1430Geometric Mean 370 450 aSamples heat shocked at 80 C for 10 min. TABLE Vi Effect of Sodium Hypophosphite and Sodium Nitrite on Toxin Production by C. botulinum in Bacon. Data for unswollen packages. Days at 270CSample 0 4 7 10 14 24 35 1 0 1 0 4 1 4 2 4 T 2 0 1 0 4 0 4 0 4 T 3 0 1 0 4 1 4 1 4 1 4 T 4 0 1 0 4 0 4 0 4 0 4 0 1 T 5 0 1 0 4 0 4 0 4 1 3 T 6 0 1 0 4 1 4 2 4 2 4 T 7 0 1 0 4 0 4 0 4 0 4 0 4 T 8 0 1 0 4 0 4 0 4 0 4 0 4 0 1 9 0 1 0 4 0 4 0 4 2 4 TT Tests for toxicity terminated since all remaining packages had swollen.Sample 1 contains neither sodium nitrite nor sodium hypophosphite.Sample 2 contains no sodium nitrite and 500 ppm sodium hypophosphite.Sample 3 contains no sodium nitrite and 1,000 ppm sodium hypophosphite.Sample 4 contains no sodium nitrite and 3,000 ppm sodium hypophosphite.Sample 5 contains 40 ppm sodium nitrite and no sodium hypophosphite.Sample 6 contains 40 ppm sodium nitrite and 500 ppm sodium hypophosphite.Sample 7 contains 40 ppm sodium nitrite and 1,000 ppm sodium hypophosphite.Sample 8 contains 40 ppm sodium nitrite and 3,000 ppm sodium hypophosphite.Sample 9 contains 120 ppm sodium nitrite and no sodium hypophosphite. TABLE VII Effect of Sodium Hypophosphite and Sodium Nitrite on Swell Rates a and Toxicity of Bacon Inoculated with Clostridium botulinum Days at 270CSample 9 10 12 14 17 21 1 2a 6 19 25 T 2 b 6 18 24 2 2 9 23 25 T 1 8 19 20 3 2 10 21 1 8 16 4 4 17 O O 5 1 10 21 25 1 7 14 15 6 3 17 3 14 7 1 1 6 O O O 8 5 5 1 1 9 4 O a Cumulative swells.b Cumulative toxic swells.T All samples in swollen test terminated. TABLE VII Continued Effect of Sodium Hypophosphite and Sodium Nitrite on Swell Rates a and Toxicity of Bacon Inoculated with Clostridium botulinum Days at 270CSample 24 27 29 31 37 49 3 24a 25 T 18 b 18 4 25 T 1 5 T 6 25 T 19 7 16 17 21 21 25 T O O O O O 8 12 15 23 24 24 25 4 4 4 4 4 4 9 13 18 23 25 T 4 5 5 5 a Cumulative swells. b Cumulative toxic swells.T All samples in swollen test terminated. TABLE VIII Time to First Toxic Sample for Bacon Inoculated with Clostridium botulinum Time to FirstSample Toxic Sample Days 1 7N 2 9S 3 7N 4 17S 5 12S 6 7N 7 37 8 17S 9 19NN First Toxic sample was a nonswell.S First Toxic sample was a swell. TABLE IX Effect of Sodium Hypophosphite and Sodium Nitrite on Swell Formation in Uninoculated Bacon a Days at 270CSample 12 14 17 21 24 29 31 49 1 10 T 2 0 10 T 3 3 6 10 T 4 3 7 .8 9 T 5 1 5 9 10 T 6 1 8 8 9 11 T 7 1 2 4 6 6 8 10 8 1 3 8 10 T 9 1 2 5 6 9 10 T a Cumulative swells.T All sample swollen and experiment terminated.