# Automotive transmission shifter.

## Abstract
An automotive transmission shifter having a pull type actuator and comprising a stationary base 16 adapted to be mounted in an automotive vehicle and an upstanding shift lever 11 pivotable in the base. A detent shaft 20 is mounted for movement in the base adjacent the lower end of the shift lever and must be aligned with a gate 24, 25 to allow entry into a locked out gear position. A manually actuable pull 41 is disposed on the upper end of the shift lever and a flexible actuator link 40 extends from the detent means to the pull. In order that the link may be adapted to the length of the shift lever, the link is tensioned between the detent and the pull by racks of teeth 60, 61 disposed on the upper end of the actuator link and a tooth engaging means in the form of pawl arms 62, 63 on the pull for engaging the teeth on the actuator link in a one way ratchet like fashion. The link is of moulded Nylon and is guided by a slot 72, 73 through which a pivot shaft 75 passes and by tabs 90, 91 on the lower portion of the shift lever engaging in channels 85 in the link.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. An automotive transmission shifter comprising a stationary base C16 adapted to be mounted to an automotive vehicle, a gate 24, 25 disposed in the base, a pivotable upstanding shift lever 11 extending from the base, detent means 20 mounted for movement adjacent the lower end of the shift lever, the detent means being alignable in the gate to allow entry into a locked out gear 5, R , a manually actuable pull C41 disposed on the upper end of the shift lever, a flexible actuator link 40 extending from the detent means to said pull, and detent engaging means 42 for engaging the detent disposed adjacent the lower end of the actuator link, racterized by a plurality of teeth 45 disposed on the upper end of the actuator link and tooth engaging means 48 disposed on the pull for engaging the teeth on the actuator link in a one way ratchet like fashion and thereby tensioning the link between the detent engaging means and the pull. 2. A transmission shifter as claimed in Claim 1 in which the said plurality of teeth comprise first and second racks 60, 61 of oppositely facing teeth disposed on opposite sides of the actuator link and the tooth engaging means comprises first and second resilient pawl arms 62, 63 for engaging the first and second racks, respectively, in a ratchet like fashion. 3. A transmission shifter as claimed in Claim 2 in which both pawl arms are cantilevered from a common base member 70 and both pawl arms extend upwardly and toward each other. 4. A transmission shifter as claimed in Claim 2 or Claim 3 in which each tooth is provided with an upwardly facing surface forming an acute angle C with respect to the vertical for camming the pawl arms over each of the teeth when the pull is urged downward with respect to the actuator link. 5. A transmission shifter as claimed in Claim 2 or Claim 3 or Claim 4 in which each tooth is provided with a downwardly facing surface forming an acute angle d with respect to the horizontal for retaining the pawl arms thereunder in a ratchet like fashion. 6. A transmission shifter as claimed in any ofClaims 2 to 5 in which each of the racks of teeth is provided with first and second shoulders 65, 66 which bound the sides of the rack and are separated by a distance W2 slightly greater than the width W1 of the toothengaging portion of the respective pawl arm such that the pawl arm is restrained therebetween in a track like fashion. 7. A transmission shifter as claimed in any ofClaims 1 to 6 in which the shift lever is tubular, the actuator link extends therethrough, and the pull comprises a pull ring encompassing and slidably engaging the tubular shift lever, the pull ring including a generally cylindrical plug 70 which slidably engages the interior of the shift lever and includes the tooth engaging means. 8. A transmission shifter as claimed in any ofClaims 1 to 7 in which the shift lever is pivotable about first and second generally orthogonal axes 12, 15 and the detent engaging means 42 includes guide means 72, 73 for the actuator link encompassing a pivot shaft C75 disposed on one of the first and second axes. 9. A transmission shifter as claimed in any ofClaims 1 to 8 in which the lower portion 79 of the shift lever is of sheet metal and includes first and second opposing walls 82, 83 each formed with an inwardly projecting lanced tab 90, 91 , the actuator lirl being formed with a pair of oppositely facing tz ks in which the tabs slidably engage. 10. A transmission shifter as claimed in any ofClaims 1 to 6 in which the detent engaging means comprises a pivotable motion reversing two armed lever 103 journalled on a pivot shaft 75 disposed on an axis about which the shift lever pivots, the actuator link engaging one arm and a push rod 106 engaging the other arm of the motion reversing lever, the push rod engaging the detent means 20, 154 .

## Description
AUTOMOTIVE TRANSHISSION SHIFTER This invention relates generally to lockouts for automotive transmission shifters and more particularly to an improved pull type lockout actuator. Various types of lockout mechanisms have been provided with automotive transmission shifters. In one type of reverse gear lockout, the gear selecting shift lever must be simultaneously lifted and aligned with a gate before the shift lever can be pivoted into engagement with a reverse gear actuator. In another type of reverse gear lockout, biasing means is provided to normally bias the gear selecting shift lever away from the reverse gear actuating position. Thus, to shift into reverse with this type of lockout, a force substantially greater than the normal gear shifting force is required to overcome the lockout bias. Still other types of reverse gear lockout mechanisms used with automotive transmissions employ a so called positive lock comprising a mechanical stop or the like which may be removed only by some action independent from the normal shifting action of the gear selecting shift lever. For example, with such a lockout, reverse gear may only be entered by actuating a separate reverse gear lockout lever that is independent from the principal gear selecting shift lever. Of these prior art positive lock lockout mechanisms, those employing a push button release or pull ring release disposed on the handle of the gear selecting shift lever are most desirable. The advantages of this type of lockout mechanism centre about operator convenience and aesthetic appeal. In prior art pushbutton or pull ring actuated positive lock type lockouts a rigid push or pull rod is used to interconnect the pull ring or pushbutton disposed atop the shift lever and a displaceable detent means disposed in the body of the transmission shifter.The principal problem with prior art lockout actuators of this type stems from the fact that a separate push or pull rod must be designed for each shift lever having a different length or angular orientation with regard to the body of the shifter. Of course, this adds to the cost of the shifter. Furthermore, these push and pull rods must be manufactured to certain dimensional tolerances and failure to meet these tolerances results in the additional cost of hand fitting the rod or accepting the cost of discarding a certain percentage of the rods. Flexible actuator links in the form of push or pull rods are found in the prior art for interconnecting shift lever mounted pushbuttons or pull rings and a lockout actuator or gear detent means disposed in the body of the shifter. Typically, these flexible rods function much like a flexible shielded cable known in the art as a Bowden cable and in one prior art pushbutton detent actuator a flexible polymeric push rod is used that extends through a tubular shift lever handle. The structurally rigid tubular shift lever handle provides the necessary support for the polymeric push rod in effect forming a Bowden cable. While these arrangements accomodate shift levers having various bends or angular orientations with respect to the body of the shift lever, these devices do not readily accommodate shift levers having different lengths. These and other problems in the prior art are solved by the provision of a plurality of teeth on the upper end of a flexible actuator link connecting a pull on the upper end of the shift lever and detent engaging means and tooth engaging means on the pull for engaging the teeth on the actuator link in a one way ratchetlike fashion to thereby tension the link between the detent engaging means and the pull. The actuator link may be moulded from a suitable polymeric material such as Nylon and the flexible actuator thus accommodates shift levers having various shapes or angular orientations with respect to the body of the shifter Furthermore, the actuator link may be provided with a rack of teeth of sufficient length to accommodate a wide range of shifter lengths.Once the rack of teeth is threaded through the tooth engaging means disposed on the pull, and the actuator link is tensioned between the detent engaging means and the pull, the excess length of the actuator link extending above the pull may simply be severed. The invention may be carried into practice in various ways but three transmission shifters embodying the invention will now be described by way of example with reference to the accompanying drawings, in which Figure 1 is a side elevational view, partially in section, of the first transmission shifter Figure 2 is a rear elevation partially in section of the shifter shown in Figure 1 Figure 3 is a shift pattern for the shifter shown in Figure 1 Figure 4 illustrates a rot configuration for forming reverse and fifth gear lockout gates in the base of the shifter shown in Figures 1 and 2, the positions of the detent shaft for the various gear positions being illustrated in phantom Figure 5 is a rear elevation of the lower portion of the actuator link of the shifter Figure 6 is a side elevation of the actuator link shown in Figure 5 Figure 7 is a section of the actuator link shown in Figure 6 taken along line VII VII of Figure 6 Figure 8 is a partial section of the top portion of the actuator link taken along line VIII VIII inFigure 10 Figure 9 is a side elevation of the top portion of the actuator link Figure 10 is a rear elevation of the top portion of the actuator link Figure 11 is a cross section of the actuator link taken along line XI XI in Figure 10 Figure 12 is a detailed view of the uppermost portion of the actuator link Figure 13 is a top view of the pull ring Figure 14 is a side elevation of the pull ring Figure 15 is a section of the pull ring taken along line XV XV in Figure 13 Figure 16 is an enlarged section of the interengagement of a rack of teeth and the tooth engaging means of the shifter shown in Figures 1 to 15 Figure 17 is a view similar to Figure 1 but with some parts omitted of a modified transmission shifter, the shift lever having a stamped rather than a tubular shift lever handle Figure 18 is a rear elevation of the shifter shown in Figure 17 Figure 19 is a front elevation of the upper portion of the shifter shown in Figures 17 and 18 and Figure 20 is a rear elevation similar to Figure 18 of another modified transmission shifter. Figures 1 and 2 show a gimbal type transmission shifter 10 for operating a manual transmission by first and second flexible shielded cables known in the art as Bowden cables. The upstanding shift or gear lever 11 is pivotable about a first axis 12 disposed on a shift lever carrier 13. The shift lever carrier 13 is pivotable about a second axis 15 disposed on a stationary base 16 that is adapted to be mounted to an automotive vehicle. The first and second axes 12 and 15 are mutually orthogonal. A first Bowden cable is connected directly to the lower end of the shift lever 11 by a pin 18. A second Bowden cable is connected to the carrier 13 by a bell crank and suitable linkage not illustrated herein. Pivotal motions of the shift lever 11 about the first and second axes 12 and 15 are transmitted to the remotely located transmission by first and second Bowden cables to effect transmission gear changes.A typical transmission shift pattern for a five gear manual automotive transmission shifter with reverse is illustrated in Figure 3. The shift lever 11 is moved along the vertical lines in Figure 3, such as between the first and second gear positions,by pivotal motion of the shift lever 11 about the first axis 12. The shift lever is moved along the horizontal lines in Figure 3, such as between the N1 2 and the N, positions, by 1,2 pivotal movement of the shift lever 11 and carrier 13 about the second axis 15.In the normal operation of the shifter, positive mechanical stops are encountered when the operator attempts to shift into either the reverse or fifth gear positions such as, for example, when the operator attempts to shift from the N1 2 position to the NR position or from the N3 4 position to the N5 position in an attempt to enter either reverse or fifth gears, respectively. The present invention more particularly relates to an actuator for removing this positive mechanical stop. In this case, the positive mechanical stop is provided by a detent shaft 20 movably mounted adjacent the lower end of the shift lever 11 and extending through the shift lever carrier 13 and the base 17. Opposing ends 21 and 22 of the detent shaft 20 extend through slots in the base 16. With reference also to Figure 4, opposing sides of the base 16 are provided with first and second slots 24 and 25. The upper slot 25 is considerably longer than the lower slot 24 and the detent shaft 20 is normally spring biased downwardly into the first slot 24 by leaf springs 27 and 28. As the shift lever 11 and carrier 13 are pivoted about the second axis 15,the N, and N3,4 positions are defined by interference between the detent shaft 20 and the ends 30 and 31 of the first slot 24.The second slot 25 provides first and second gates disposed in the base to allow eritry of the shift lever to either the NR or N5 positions. Entry into these positions is effected by upward displacement of the detent shaft 20 which provides for further rotation of the shift lever 11 and carrier 13 about the second axis 15 in either the direction of the NR or N5 positions by virtue of the fact that the second slot 25 is somewhat longer or larger than the first slot 24. Eventually interference between the detent shaft 20 and the ends 34 and 35 of the second slot 25 define the NR and N5 positions, respectively. Thereafter, the shift lever 11 is pivoted about the second axis 13 to fully engage either the reverse or fifth gear positions. A flexible lockout actuator link 40 extends from a manually actuated pull 41 disposed on the top of the shift lever 11 to the detent shaft 20 movably mounted adjacent the lower end of the shift lever 11. The actuator link is preferably formed from a flexible polymeric material such as moulded Nylon and is illustrated in further detail in Figures 5 to 12. The actuator link 40 includes detent engaging means 42 disposed on the lower end of the link. A plurality of teeth 45 forming a rack is disposed on the upper end 46 of the actuator link 40. The teeth have upper flanks which are inclined at angles to the vertical and lower flanks which are inclined upwardly and inwardly at small angles to the horizontal. The pull 41 is provided with tooth engaging means 48 for engaging the teeth 45 on the actuator link 40 in a one way ratchet like fashion.The flexible actuator link 40 is thus tensioned between the detent engaging means 42 and the pull 41 by the ratchet like interaction of the teeth 45 and the tooth engaging means 48 disposed on the pull 41. Because of the flexible nature of the actuator link 40, shift levers 11 having various shapes or angular orientations with respect to the base 16 of the shift lever may be easily accommodated with the same actuator link 40. Furthermore, shift levers having various lengths are accommodated by the ratchet like interaction between the pull 41 and the actuator link 40. More specifically, once the shifter 10 is assembled with the flexible actuator link 40 threaded upwardly the length of the tubular shift lever 11, the upper portion 46 of the actuator link 40 will extend from the top of the shift lever 11.The pull 41 is then dropped over the top of the shift lever 11, the tooth engaging means 48 of the pull 41 extending into the interior of the tubular shift lever 11 through a slot 50, best illustrated in Figure 2 When the pull 41 is dropped over the top of the shift lever 11, the upper portion 46 of the flexible actuator link 40 is simultaneously threaded or drawn through the tooth engaging means 48. As best illustrated in Figures 9 and 12, the upper end 46 of the flexible actuator link 40 is tapered to a point 51 that facilitates insertion of the flexible actuator link into the tooth engaging means 48.Once the rack of teeth 45 is engaged by the tooth engaging means 48, the flexible actuator link 40 is tensioned by the ratchet like engagement of the teeth 45 and the tooth engaging means 48, snugly tensioning the flexible actuator link 40 between the detent engaging means 42 and the pull 41 thus accommodating shift levers of different lengths. Any portion of the flexible actuator link 40 extending above the pull 41 may be severed thereafter.Once the pull 41 is connected to the actuator link 40, a shift lever handle or knob, illustrated in phantom at 52, is mounted atop the shift lever 11. The shift lever handle 52 may be appropriately positioned on the shift lever 11 such that, when the lockout pull 41 is manually actuated by the operator, the lockout pull 41 bottoms against the lower end of the shift lever handle 52, preventing over tensioning of the flexible lockout actuator link 40. As previously noted, in this case the shift lever 11 is a tubular member and the flexible lockout actuator 40 extends therethrough. In this case, the flexible lockout actuator link 40 may be provided with one or more spherical guides 55 for slidably engaging the interior of the tubular shift lever 11 and thus reducing friction between the actuator link 40 and the shift lever 11. The spheres 55 may be moulded in situ on the flexible actuator link 40. The flexible actuator link 40 is preferably a flat strip of Nylon and, with particular reference now to Figure 8, the top portion 46 of the flexible actuator link 40 preferably includes first and second oppositely opposing linear arrays or racks 60 and 61, respectively, of the teeth 45. The first and second racks 60 and 61 are disposed on opposing sides of the flat strip like body of the actuator link 40. With reference now to Figures 15 and 16, it is illustrated that the tooth engaging means 48 preferably comprises finst and second resilient pawl arms 62 and 63 for engaging the first and second racks 60 and 61 of the actuator link 40, respectively. The pull 41 and the resilient pawl arms 62 and 63 are preferably moulded from a polymeric material such as Nylon. The racks 60 and 61 do not extend completely across opposing faces of the actuator link 40 but are bordered by shoulders 65 and 66 disposed on opposing sides of the racks 60 and 61 and best illustrated in Figures 10 and .11. Each of the resilient pawl arms 62 and 63 has a width W1, best illustrated in Figure 14, that is slightly less than the width W2 of the first and second racks 60 and 61, best illustrated in Figure 10.The pawls 62 and 63 thus ride between the shoulders 65 and 66 in a track like fashion. For illustrative purposes, the angles Stand of the teeth from which the first and second racks 60 and 61 are composed may be approximately five and twenty degrees, respectively, and the angles X and e in Figure 16 defining the configuration of the first and second pawls 62 and 63 may be approximately thirty and fifty degrees, respectively. The minimum thickness W3 of the flexible link in way of the first and second racks 60 and 61, best illustrated in Figure 8, should be approximately equal to the width W4 of the gap between the first and second resilient pawls 62 and 63. When the pull 41 is dropped over the end of the shift lever 11 during the assembly of the lockout actuator, the tapered end 51 of the lockout actuator, best illustrated in Figure 12, facilitates insertion of the top portion of the actuator between the first and second resilient pawls 62 and 63. As the top of the actuator link 40 is drawn upwardly between the resilient pawls 62 and 63, little or no resistance is met until the first set of opposing teeth of the first and second racks 60 and 61 is met by the pawls 62 and 63. Thereafter, a moderate amount of upward force is sufficient to cam the resilient pawl arms 62 and 63 over successive sets of teeth until the tooth engaging means 48 of the pull ring 41 bottoms in the slot 50 of the shift lever 11 and snugly tensions the flexible actuator link 40 between the pull 41 and the detent engaging means 42.The one way ratchet like engagement of the pawl arms 62 and 63 and the tooth rack 60 and 61 prevent the actuator link 40 from moving downwardly relative to the pull 41. Thus, when the pull 41 is manually actuated upwardly relative to the shift lever handle 11, the actuator link 40 is drawn upwards. If the operator applies sufficient upward force on the pull ring 41 to overcome the spring biasing force of the leaf springs 27 and 28, the detent shaft 20 is drawn upward into a gate provided by the second slot 25 in the base 16, allowing the operator to selectively enter either the reverse or fifth gear positions. In the case where the pull ring 41 surrounds a tubular shift lever handle 11, preferably the tooth engaging means 48 is incorporated in a cylindrical plug 70 that is slightly smaller in diameter than the inside diameter of the tubular shift lever handle 11. The plug 40 slidably engages the sides of the shift lever handle 11 to guide the reciprocatable pull 41 and the actuator link 40. With particular reference now to Figures 1, 2, 5 and 6, it is illustrated that the detent engaging means 42 of the actuator link 40 preferably includes a first guide means 71 comprising first and second generally vertically oriented and opposing faces 72 and 73 which slidably engage opposite sides of a pivot shaft 75 centered on the first axis 12. The actuator link 40 is widened in the area of the first guide means 71 to provide wide bearing surfaces between the pivot shaft 75 and the first guide means 71 and effectively stabilize the link 40 therearound. The shift lever 11 comprises a tubular upper portion 78 and a stamped metal lower portion 79. The tubular upper portion 78 of the shift lever 11 is secured to the stamped metal portion 79 by welding. The stamped metal lower portion 79 comprises first and second opposing stampings 80 and 81. The first and second stampings 80 and 81 define generally parallel first and second opposing walls 82 and 83. A second guide means is formed on the bottom of the flexible actuator link 40. The second guide means comprises a pair of tracks or channels 85 and 86 formed on opposite sides of the actuator link 40. The first and second walls 82 and 83 of the stampings 80 and 81 are provided with inwardly lanced projecting tabs 90 and 91, respectively. The lanced tabs 90 and 91 project into the tracks or channels 85 and 86, respectively, top guide the reciprocatable actuator link 40.Furthermore, the width W5 of the lower portion of the actuator link 40 is approximately equal to the distance between the first and second walls 85 and 86 of the stam pings 80 and 81 to further stabilize the lower end of the actuator link 40. The detent engaging means 42 disposed on the lower end of the actuator link 40 further comprises a slot 95 through which the detent shaft 20 extends. The lower end of the actuator link 40 thus encompasses the detent shaft 20 to ensure that the detent shaft moves therewith. Figures 17, 18 and 19 show a pull type actuator adapted for use with a stamped shift lever 100. In many applications, the stamped shift lever 100 is preferred simply as a cost reducing expediency. Again, a pull 41 including tooth engaging means 48 is reciprocatably mounted on the top portion of the shift lever 100.However, in this case, the detent engaging means 42 comprises a pivotal motion reversing lever 103 journalled on the pivot shaft 75 centered on the first axis 12.The lever 103 includes first and second lever arms or ends 104 and 105. The flexible actuator link 40 engages the first arm 104 of the lever 103 and a rigid push rod 106 engages the second arm 105 of the lever 103. Both the flexible actuator link 40 and the push rod 106 pivotally engage the first and second arms 104 and 105 of the lever 103. In the case of the actuator link 40 this is accomplished by providing the lower end of the actuator link 40 with a cylindrical tie or T 110 that is journalled in a cylindrical socket formed in the bifurcated end 111 of the first arm 104. Pivotal motion between the second arm 105 and the rigid push rod 106 is accommodated by providing the end 114 of the push rod 106 with a 900 bend and then journalling the end in an aperture disposed in the second arm 105. The actuator link 40 is comprised of first and second angularly intersecting linear segments 120 and 121 to accommodate the relative positions of the pull 41 and the first arm 104. The body of the actuator link 40 is again preferably formed from a moulded Nylon, part having a generally strip or flat cross section. The central axes of the highest moments of inertia of each of the linear segments 120 and 121 of the flexible actuator link 40 are disposed approximately orthogonal to one another. The lower end 130 of the push rod 106 slidably engages a bore in a weld pin 131. The weld pin 131 thus serves as a guide for the push rod 106 which reciprocates along with the actuator link 40 when the operator manually actuates the pull ring 41. The push rod 106 further includes a shoulder 132 and a coil spring 133 compression mounted betwe en the shoulder 132 and the weld pin 131. Thus, the push rod 106 is spring biased upwardly by the spring 103. The lower end 130 of the push rod 106 includes a foot 140 which abuts the detent shaft 20. In this case, the leaf springs associated with the detent shaft 20 spring bias the detent shaft 20 in an upward rather than a downward direction. The first and second slots 24 and 25 disposed in the base 16 are reversed from the orientation illustrated in Figure 4, the smaller first slot 24 being disposed above rather than below the second slot 25. Thus, when the pull ring 41 is manually actuated upward by the operator, the reciprocating actuator link 40 pivots the lever 103 displacing the push rod 106 downward overcoming the spring biasing force of the coil spring 133 to displace the detent shaft 20 downwardly from the first slot 24 into the second slot 25.The larger second slot 25 provides the additional clearance necessary to pivot the shift lever 100 and the carrier 13 about the second axis 15 an amount sufficient to allow the operator to selectively enter the reverse and fifth gear positions. In all other regards the operation of the shifter illustrated in Figures 17 to 19 is the same as that previously illustrated. Figure 20 illustrates a shifter which is similar in many respects to that shown in Figures 17 to 19 but wherein a pivotal detent pawl 154 is employed rather than the reciprocating detent shaft 20. The pawl 154 is rnnalled in the carrier 13 about a pin 155. The lower end 130 of the push rod 106 abuts a platform 156 formed on one end of the pawl 154. The opposite end 160 of the pawl 154 normally engages a portion 161 of the base 16 limiting rotation of the shift lever 10o and carrier 13 about the second axis 15 and thus normally preventing entry into the reverse gear position. To ensure interference between the end 160 of the pawl 154 and the portion 161 of the base 16 the end 160 of the pawl 154 is spring biased downwardly by a tension mounted coil spring 163.The base 16 also includes a gate or window 166 to permit entry into the locked out gear position when the pivotal pawl 154 is actuated. More specifically, when the pull ring disposed atop the shift lever 100 is manually actuated the lower end 130 of the push rod 106 is displaced downwardly engaging the platform 156 of the pawl 154. This pivots the pawl 154 in the counterclockwise direction, when sufficient force is applied to overcome the tension spring 163, displacing the end 160 of the pawl 154 upwardly into alignment with the gate 166 disposed in the base 16. With the pawl 154 aligned with the gate 166 the operator is provided with the additional clearance necessary to pivot the shift lever into the locked out gear. Normally this type of lockout is used to provide a reverse gear lockout in a four or five forward gear shifter having an H type shift pattern like that illustrated in Figure 3.