# Concrete curing membrane.

## Abstract
A concrete curing membrane is formed by an emulsion including water, a film forming ingredient and a minor prop ortion of a photoinitiator, and an emulsifier for the film forming ingredient. The photoinitiator is preferably acetophenone, benzophenone, benzoin or a benzoin ether and preferably less than 1 by weight is present in the emul sion.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A composition for forming a concrete curing membrane, comprising an emulsion comprising as the continuous phase water, and characterised in that the disperse phase comprises a film forming ingredient which forms a film having C C linkages, and an emulsifier for the filmforming ingredient, and a minor proportion of a photoinitiator which upon exposure to light releases free radicals. 2. A composition according to Claim 1, characterised in that the photoinitiator is acetophenone, benzophenone, benzoin or a benzoin ether. 3. A composition according to Claim 1 or 2, characterised in that the concentration of the photoinitiator is less than 1 by weight. 4. A composition according to Claim 3, characterised in that the concentration of photoinitiator is less than 0. by weight. 5. A composition according to any preceding Claim, characterised in that the film forming ingredient comprises a wax. 6. A composition according to Claim 5, character ised in that the wax is a petroleum wax. 7. A composition according to any preceding Claim, characterised by a cationic emulsifier. 8. A composition according to any preceding Claim, characterised by a non ionic wetting agent. 9. A method of forming a curing membrane on a body of setting concrete characterised by applying thereto an emulsion according to any preceding Claim, allowing the emulsion to be broken to form a film and leaving the formed film for sufficient time to allow it to be broken down by ultra vidlet light, at a rate controlled by the amount of photoinitiator present. 10. For use in a composition according to any of Claims 1 to 8 or the method of Claim 9, a composition of matter comprising a wax and a photoinitiator. 11. A composition according to Claim 10, including an emulsifier for the wax.

## Description
CONCRETE CURING MEMBRANE The invention relates to a curing membrane of the type which is applied to the surface of setting con crete in order to delay the evaporation of the gauging water, so improving the quality of the concrete formed. In practice, a chemical composition is applied to the concrete and this breaks down to form a chemical membrane on the surface of the concrete. According to the invention, a composition for forming a concrete curing membrane comprises an emulsion comprising as the continuous phase water, and as the disperse phase a film forming ingredient which forms a film having C C linkages, and a minor proportion of a photoinitiator which upon exposure to light releases free radicals1 and an emulsifier for the film forming ingredient. The film forming ingredient preferably comprises a wax, most preferably a petroleum wax. Such a wax typically has C C linkages in the long chain molecules and such linkages can be broken by attack by free radicals. The photoinitiator may be acetophenone, benzo phenone, benzoin or a benzoin ether. In the presence of ultra violet light these chemicals break down to release free radicals. The concentration of photoinitiator present will determine the rate at which the film is to be broken down. Generally the curing membrane film is advantageously present on the concrete for 14 to 28 days and to ensure that the film is thereafter broken down the concentration of the photoinitiator should be adjusted appropriately to the ultra violet rays of the prevailing light. For example, the concentration of photoinitiator in a composition to form a membrane for use in a hot weather climate will be much less than in one for use in Great Britain.In general, the concentration of the photoinitiator will be less than 1 by weight, preferably less than 0.5 by weight. The emulsion includes an emulsifier, most preferably a cationic emulsifier in order that the emulsion may be broken by the alkaline nature of the setting concrete. If there is a tendency for the emulsion to be broken too rapidly so that wax droplets are fromed on the concrete instead of a film, this may be arrested by the inclusion of a non ionic wetting agent in the emulsion. The emulsion may be applied to the setting concrete in any convenient way it is preferred to spray the emulsion on the concrete. The emulsion should be applied as soon as possible after the concrete has been surface finished, i.e. trowelled, tamped or textured.It is preferred that the concrete be free of surface water if such water is present it should be removed before the emulsion is applied to the setting concrete. The invention further includes a method of forming a curing membrane on a body of setting concrete comprising applying thereto an emulsion as defined above, allowing the emulsion to be broken to form a film and leaving the formed film for sufficient time to allow it to be broken down by ultra violet light, at a rate controlled by the amount of photoinitiator present. The invention includes as a new composition of matter, a wax and a photo initiator which upon exposure to ultra violet light releases free radicals, optionally with an emulsifier for the wax, preferably a cationic emulsifier. An embodiment of the invention is given by way of illustration in the following example in which all parts are by weight. Example A petroleum wax 200 parts was melted with stirring and a cationic emulsifier 50 parts was blended in, followed by benzoin n butyl ether 0.5 parts and then the whole was mixed with hot water 750 parts to form an oil in water emulsion. The formed composition was cooled and a further amount of non ionic ethoxylated fatty alcohol wetting agent 50 parts of 1 1 aqueous solution was added. The emulsion was then sprayed onto a setting body of concrete at ambient temperature of 20 C. The emulsion broke on contact with the concrete to form a film which cured and then lasted as a curing membrane for 21 days.