# Method and apparatus for reducing the loss of power in an electromechanical energy conversion device.

## Abstract
A system is disclosed for controlling the conversion of electrical energy to mechanical energy as well as for control ling the conversion of mechanical energy to electrical energy. In a separately excited electromechanical energy conversion device, power losses are minimised by simultaneously con trolling the currents flowing in the different windings of the device such that these currents are related by a predeter mined optimising function. This system is applicable to a wide variety of electric motors and generators.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A method for minimizing, by use of a predetermined optimizing function, the loss of power in a separately excited electromechanical energy conversion device and in a controller of said energy conversion device, said energy conversion device having n spatially fixed windings, n 1, for providing a first magnetic field, and having m movable windings, m 1, for producing a second magnetic field which opposes said first magnetic field produced by said n spatially fixed windings, such that said first magnetic field produced by said n spatially fixed windings can be varied, at least in part, independently of said second magnetic field produced by said m movable windings,said method comprising the step of first generating a command signal having a magnitude A the step of generating currents I1 A ,12 A ,...,In A in said n spatially fixed windings, respectively and the step of generating currents 1n 1 A , In 2 A ,..., Inm A in said m movable windings respectively wherein said currents I1 A , I2 A ,. .. 1n A ,In 1 A , In 2 A , In R A are selected in such a manner that their magnitudes as a function of said command signal magnitude A satisfy said predetermined optimising function and wherein said predetermined optimising function takes into account the incremental changes in said first and second magnetic fields caused by each of said n m currents in each of said n m windings. 2. An apparatus for minimizing, by use of a predetermined optimizing function, the loss of power in a separately excited electromechanical energy conversion device and in a controller of said energy conversion device, said energy conversion device having n spatially fixed windings, n 1, for providing a first magnetic field, and having m movable windings, m I, for producing a second magnetic field which opposes said first magnetic field produced by said n spatially fixed windings, such that said first magnetic field produced by said n spatially fixed windings can be varied, at least in part, independently of said second magnetic field produced by said m movable winding, said apparatus comprising means for first generating a command signal having a magnitude A means for generating currents I1 A , I2 A ,..., In A in said n spatially fixed windings, respectively and means for generating currents In 1 A , 1n 2 A ,..., In m A in said m movable windings, n m respectively wherein said currents I1 A , I2 A ,..., In A , In 1 A , In 2 A ,..., In m A are selected in such a mauner that their magnitudes as a function of said command signal magnitude A satisfy said predetermined optimising function and wherein said predetermined optimising function takes into account the incremental changes in said first and second magnetic fields caused by each of said n m currents in each of said n m winding. 3. An apparatus as in claim 2 wherein the n spatially fixed windings comprise at least a shunt field winding and a separately excited field winding, and wherein the immovable windings comprise armature windings wherein said means for generating currents I A , I2 A , ..., A includes function generator means for generating one of last said currents in the separately excited field winding, said function generator means receiving said command signal and receiving a signal representing the magnitude of current in said shunt field winding. 4. An apparatus as in claim 2 wherein the n spatially fixed windings comprise at least a shunt field winding and a separately excited field winding, and wherein the. m movable windings comprise armature windings wherein said means for generating currents I1 A , I2, A ,.., In A includes function generator means for generating one of last. said currents in the separately excited field winding, said function generator means receiving a signal representing the magnitude of current in said armature windings and receiving a signal representing the magnitude of current in said shunt field winding. 5. An apparatus as in claim 2 wherein the n spatially fixed windings comprise at least a separately excited field winding, and wherein the m movable windings comprise armature windings wherein said means for generating currents I1 A r 12 A , ..., In A includes function generator means for generating one of last said currents in the separately excited field winding, said function generator means receiving said command signal. 6. An apparatus as in claim 2 wherein the n spatially fixed windings comprise at least a separately excited field winding, and wherein the m movable windings comprise armature windings wherein said means for generating currents I1 A , I2 A ,..., In A includes function generator means for generating one of last said currents in the separately excited field winding, said function generator means receiving a signal representing the magnitude of current in said armature windings. 7. An apparatus as in claim 2 wherein the n spatially fixed windings comprise at least a separately excited field winding, a nd wherein the m movable windings comprise armature windings wherein said means for generating currents 1n l A r In 2 A ,,..,In m A includes function generator means for generating last said currents in the armature windings, said function generator means receiving said command signal. 8. An apparatus as in claim 2 wherein the n spatially fixed windings comprise at least a separately excited field winding, and wherein the m movable windings comprise armature windings wherein said means for generating currents 1n l A ,, In 2 A , , Inm A includes function generator means for generating last said currents in the armature windings, said function generator means receiving a signal representing the magnitude of current in said separately excited field winding.

## Description
METHOD AND APPARATUS FOR REDUCING THE LOSS OF POWER IN AN ELECTROMECHANICAL ENERGY CONVERSION DEVICE This invention relates to a method and apparatus for minimizing the loss of power in a separately excited electromechanical energy conversion device and in its controller. An electromechanical energy conversion device having n spatially fixed windings, n I, for producing a magnetic field, and having m movable windings, m I, for producing a magnetic field whlch opposes said magnetic field produced by said n spatially fixed windings, is separately excited if said magnetic field produced by said n spatially fixed windings can be varied, at least in part, independently of said magnetic field produced by said m movable windings.For example, in a separately excited dc motor generator, the n spatially fixed windings can be any combination of constantly excited field windings, series field windings, and shunt field windings, with at least one separately excited field winding. The m movable windings can be armature windings. Hereafter, unless otherwise stated, the term field will be used to refer to the electrical circuit of field winding s . Also, the term armature will be used to refer to the electrical circuit of armature winding s .This terminology is common in the literature. Description of the Prior Art First, the conversion of electrical energy to mechanical energy in a dc motor will be considered. Heretofore, the speed and torque control of a separately excited motor, in the low speed running mode, was carried out by maintaining the field current constant and varying the armature voltage, and in the high speed running mode, by maintaining the armature yoltage constant and varying the field current. This type of two speedrange controller was modified by Ohmae et al. ReferenceU.S. Patent number 4,037,I44 as follows I Assume that the field magnetic flux is developed in proportion to the field current IF. II Assume that the field magnetic flux is independent of the armature current 1A III Assume that the field circuit resistance is not a function of field current IF. IV Assume that the armature circuit resistance RA is not a function of armature current IA. V Then the electrical power loss W T 2 2 A 1F I is minimized whenEMI2.1 VI Therefore, modify a two speed range controller to maintain the relationship of IF to IA as given in V , unless the value of IF thus calculated exceeds minimum or maximum limits. In the latter case, maintain IF above the minimum limit or below the maximum limit, respectively. The maximum limit on IF is stated by Ohmae et al. to be that level of current which causes the field magnetic circuit to be saturated. For a range of IF below this limit, assumptions I and II are invalid. The reason for this is that the incremental change in the field magnetic flux caused by a change in the field current is a function of both the field current magnitude and the armature current magnitude. Assumptions III and IV can also be significantly inaccurate. The present invention can achieve higher efficiency because it is not based on the above assumptions. The implementation of VI by Ohmae et al. still requires a two speed range controller. The present invention provides a simpler apparatus. The present invention provides a method for minimizing, by use of a predetermined optimizing function, the loss of power in a separately excited electromechanical energy conversion device and in a controller of said energy conversion device, said energy conversion device having n spatially fixed windings, n I, for providing a first magnetic field, and having mmovable windings, m I, for producing a second magnetic field which opposes said first magnetic field produced by said n spatially fixed windings, such that said first magnetic field produced by said n spatially fixed windings can be varied, at least in part, independently of said second magnetic field produced by said m movable windings, said method comprising the step of first generating a command signal having a magnitude A the step of generating currents Il AJtI2 A ,...In A in said n spatially fixed windings, respectively and the step of generating currents 1n m A in said m movable windings, respectively said currents I1 A ,I, A ,...,I, A rI t n l In 2 A ,...,In m A are selected in such a manner that their magnitudes as a function of said command signal magnitude A satisfy said predetermined optimizing function and said predetermined optimizing function takes into account the incremental changes in said first and second magnetic fields caused by each of said n m currents in each of said n m windings. The present invention also provides an apparatus for minimizing, by use of a predetermined optimizing function, the loss of power in a separately excited electromechanical energy conversion device and in a controller of said energy conversion device, said energy conversion device having n spatially fixed windings, n 1, for providing a first magnetic field, and having m movable windings, m 1, for producing a second magnetic field which opposes said first magnetic field produced by said n spatially fixed windings, such that said first magnetic field produced by said n spatially fixed windings can be varied, at least in part, independently of said second magnetic field produced by said m movable windings, said apparatus comprising means for first generating a command signal having a magnitude A means for generating currents 11 A , I2 A ,.. ,In A in said n spatially fixed windings, respectively and means for generating currents 1n m A in said m movable windings1 respectively said currents I1 A ,I2 A A gln 1 A , In 2 A ,...,InFm A are selected in such a manner that their magnitudes as a function of said command signal magnitudeA satisfy said predetermined optimizing function and wherein said predetermined optimizing function takes into account the incremental changes in said first and second magnetic fields caused by each of said n m currents in each of said n m windings. Preferably the n spatially fixed windings comprise at least a shunt field winding and a separately excited field winding, and the m movable windings comprise armature windings said means for generating currents 11 A ,12 A , ...,In A includes function generator means for generating one of last said currents in the separately excited field winding, said functiongçerator means receiving said command signal and receiving a signal representing the magnitude of current in said shunt field winding. Alternatively n spatially fixed windings comprise at least a shunt field winding and a separately excited field winding, and the m movable windings comprise armature windings said means for generating current I1 A ,I2 A , ...,In A includes function generator means for generating one of last said currents in the separately excited field winding, said function generator means receiving a signal representing the magnitude of current in said armature windings and receiving a signal representing the magnitude of current in said shunt field winding. Alternatively the n spatially fixed windings comprise at least a separately excited field winding, and the m movable windings comprise armature windings said means for generating currents I1 A ,I, A , ..,In Al includes function generator means for generating one of last said currents in the separately excited field winding, said function generator means receiving said command signal. Alternatively the n spatially fixed windings comprise at least a separately excited field winding, and the m movable windings comprise armature windings said means for generating currents I1 A ,I2 A , 1n A includes function generatqr means for generating one of last said currents in the separately excited field winding, said function generator means receiving a signal representing the magnitude of current in said armature windings. Alternatively the n spatially fixed windings comprise at least a separately excited field winding, and the m movable windings comprise armature windings said means for generating currents In l A , I A ,. . . ,I A includes function generator means for n 2 n m generating last said currents in the armature windings, said function generator means receiving said command signal. Alternatively the n spatially fixed windings comprise at least a separately excited field winding, and the m movable windings comprise armature windings said means for generating currents 1n l A , In 2 A ,...,InFm A includes function generator means for generating last said currents in the armature windings, said function generator means receiving a signal representing the magnitude of current in said separately excited field winding We may thus provide a method and apparatus for minimizing a the loss of power in a separately excited electromechanical energy conversion device and in its controller, and b both for the conversion of electrical energy to mechanical energy as well as for the conversion of mechanical energy to electrical energy for a wide variety of motors and generators, including devices having a shunt field as well as devices lacking a shunt field. Other aspects of the present invention will be evident to those skilled in the art from the description of the preferred embodiments and from the claims. In the drawings FIG. 1 is a block diagram of a separately excited electromechanical energy conversion device with a Long shunt field FIG. 2 is a block diagram of a separately excited electromechanical energy conversion device with a Short shunt field FIG. 3 is a block diagram of one embodiment of the present invention FIG. 4 is a block diagram of another embodiment of the present invention FIG. 5 is a block diagram of another embodiment of the present invention FIG. 6 is a block diagram of another embodiment of the present invention FIG. 7 is a block diagram of another embodiment of the present invention FIG. 8 is a block diagram of another embodiment of the present invention FIG. 9 is a schematic of an External Command Device FIG. 10 is a schematic of a Function Generator FIG. 11 is a schematic of an Armature ControllingCircuit FIG. 12 is a schematic of a Field ControllingCircuit FIG. 13 is a schematic of an Armature DrivingCircuit and FIG. 14 is a schematic of a Field Driving Circuit.DESCRIPTION OF THE METHOD OF THE PRESENT INVENTION The following derivation is applicable to a dc motor generator with an armature, a permanent magnet field, a constantly excited field, a series field, a long shunt field or a short shunt field, and a separately excited field. The predetermined optimizing function fOPT is derived, wherein fOpT gives the desired relationship between the currents in the various windings of the device in order òr the total power loss in the device and in its controller to be minimized. For other types or other configurations of energy conversion devices, a similar derivation will produce the corresponding predetermined optimizing function fOpT. In applying this method, approximations of fOpT can be used, with the resulting power losses dependent upon the accuracy of the approximation. Examples of approximations of fOpT that can be used are a power series approximation a piecewise linear approximation and a sum of step functions approximation. Furthermore, the currents in the various windings of the energy conversion device can each be a different function of the command signal that operates the controller, as long as these currents satisfy the predetermined optimizing function fOPT. That is, if the amplitude of the command signal is Ar and if the current in winding i of the energy conversion device is where 1 i nFm, then over all power losses are minimized if I1 A , I2 A ,...,In A , In 1 A , In 2 A , ... 1n m A satisfy the predetermined optimizing function foPT. Because the method of the present invention can be practiced in different ways, the drawings relating to the description of this method show only the driving circuits of tbe controller connected to the energy conversion device. FIG. 1 illustrates a controller connected to a device with a Long Shunt Field 1. FIG. 2 illustrates a controller connected to a device with a Short Shunt Field 2. For the energy conversion device and the controller, 2 2 2 2 Power Lost Ipê.RP IAê.RAl IP IA ê.RA2 IFê.RF fI 2 R 1 where Ip Shunt Field current IA Armature current IF Separately Excited Field current IC Constantly Excited Field current RP resistance of Shunt Field 1 in FIG. 1, 2 in FIG. 2 RF sum of resistance of Separately Excited Field 3 in FIGS. 1 and 2 and Separately Excited Field Driving Circuit 4 in FIGS. 1 and 2 RC sum of resistance of Constantly Excited Field 5 in FIGS. 1 and 2 and Constantly Excited Field Driving Circuit 6 in FIGS. 1 and 2 RAl and RA2 are defined differently for the LongShunt configuration and the Short Shunt configuration the sum of resistance of Series Field 8 and Armature 9 FIG. 1 or RAl resistance of Armature 9 FIG.2 RA2 resistance of Armature Driving Circuit 10 FIG. 1 or RA2 sum of resistance of Series Field 8 and Armature Driving Circuit 10 FIG.2 By using these two definitions for RAl and RA2r the following discussion applies to both the Long Shunt configuration FIG.1 and the Short Shunt configuration FIG.2 , although the remaining drawings illustrate only the Long Shunt configuration. T IA.fE IP,IA,IF,IC, IA fE where T mechanical torque input or output strength of Permanent Magnet Field 7in FIGS. 1 and 2 Substituting IA T into 1 fEEMI9.1 tb Power SEP Lost SEP SEP Ip SEP . SEP Rp SEP f SEP SEP . SEP RA1 SEP Ip SEP f SEP SEP . SEP RA2 tb SEP E tb SEP SEP 12 SEP R SEP SEP 12 SEP R tb SEP F SEP F SEP C SEP C SEP 2 tb Differentiating 2 with respect to IF and setting the result equal to zero EMI10.1 tb a SEP Power SEP Lost SEP SEP 2.I SEP .Rp. SEP P SEP SEP I SEP 2 SEP a SEP p, SEP ar, tb SEP a SEP 1F SEP Rp SEP a1 tb SEP T2 SEP 2 SEP f SEP 2 SEP A1 SEP a SEP SEP 2 SEP RAl SEP al SEP af tb SEP A SEP 4 SEP fE 2 SEP A SEP SEP 2.R SEP . SEP fE SEP E tb SEP A SEP F SEP Al tb SEP f SEP T SEP tb SEP SEP 2.tIp SEP Tf SEP SEP v SEP 2 SEP coif tb SEP E SEP . I Ip tb SEP SEP Ip SEP ThfE SEP 2 SEP razz. I Ip SEP a tb SEP 2 SEP a SEP RF tb SEP SEP a SEP 1F tb Substituting IA for Tin 3 fEEMI10.2 fE Ip,IA,IF,IC, can be measured, for example, by performing a blocked rotor test on the energy conversion device.With IC and constant, T can be measured for different values of Ip, IA, and IF Then T fE Ip,IA,IF IATherefore, 4 can be solved numerically to giveIF fOPT IA,IP fOPT is the optimizing function referred to previously.If the energy conversion device lacks a shunt field, then 4 becomesEMI11.1 where RA RAl RA2 5 can be solved numerically for IF fopT IA or IA fOPT IF If RA and RF have only small nonlinearities, then a R a RF and a 1F are small and 5 becomes EMI11.2 Accordingly, the power loss minimization of the present invention is achieved for separately excited electromechanical energy conversion devices having a shunt field by controlling the separately excited field current, IF, so as to be fOPT IA,Ip , where IF fOPT IA,Ip is the solution to 4 . Accordingly, the power loss minimization of the present invention is achieved for separately excited electromechanical energy conversion devices lacking a shunt field by simultaneously controlling the armature current, IA, and the separately excited field current, IF, such that IF fOPT IA or IA fOPT 1 IF , where the latter is the solution to 5 . DESCRIPTION OF THE APPARATUS OF THE PRESENT INVENTION 1. Two embodiments of the present invention for separately excited electromechanical energy conversion devices having a shunt field are described. a FIG. 3 is a block diagram of one embodiment of the present invention. The External Command Device 11 generates a current command VIApC to the ArmatureControlling Circuit 12. This in turn operates theArmature Driving Circuit 10, causing the Armature 9 and the Series Field 8, in parallel with the ShuntField 1, to have a total current equal to IA Ip flowing in them.Shunt Field current Ip is detected by the Shunt Field Current Sensor 13 which outputs signal VIpD to the Function Generator414. The latter, which also receives VIAPC from the External CommandDevice, generates a current dommand VIFC to the FieldControlling Circuit 15, where VIFC OPT VIAPC VIPD , VIPD . This in turn operates the Field DrivingCircuit 4, driving current IF through the SeparatelyExcited Field 3, where IF fOPT IA, Ip . b FIG. 4 is a block diagram of another embodiment of the present invention. The External Command Device 11 generates a command VAC to the Armature ControllingCircuit 12. This in turn operates the Armature DrivingCircuit 10. Armature current IA is detected by theArmature Current Sensor 16, which outputs signal VIAD to the Function Generator 14. Shunt Field current is detected by the Shunt Field Current Sensor 13, which outputs signal VIpD to the Function Generator.The latter generates a current command VIFC to theField Controlling Circuit 15, where VIFC fOpT VIAD, VIpD . This in turn operates the Field Driving Circuit 4 driving current IF through the Separately Excited Field 3, where IF fOPT IA,Ip . If there is no permanent magnet field and no constantly excited field in the energy conversion device, and if this embodiment is used for converting mechanical energy to electrical energy, the fOpT may have to be changed slightly to make IF nonzero when 1A is zero. Otherwise, generation may not be able to start up. 2. Four embodiments of the present invention for separately excited electromechanical energy conversion devices lacking a shunt field are described. a FIG. 5 is a block diagram of another embodiment of the present invention. The External Command Device 11 generates a current command VIAC to the ArmatureControlling Circuit 12. This in turn operates theArmature Driving Circuit 10, causing the Armature 9 and the Series Field 8 to have current IA flowing in them. VIAC also operates the Function Generator 14 which generates current command VIFC to the FieldControlling Circuit 15, where VIFC fOPT VIAC This in turn operates the Field Driving Circuit 4, driving current IF through the Separately Excited Field 3, where 1F fOPT IA . b FIG. 6 is a block diagram of another embodiment of the present invention. The External Command Device 11 generates a command VAc to the Armature Controlling Circuit 12. This in turn operates the Armature DrivingCircuit, 10. Armature current IA is detected by theArmature Current Sensor 16, which outputs signal VIAD to the Function Generator 14. The latter generates a current command VIEC to the Field Controlling Circuit 15 , where VIFC fOpT VIAD This in turn operates the FieldDriving Circuit 4, driving current IF through theSeparately Excited Field 3, where IF fOpT IA . If there is no permanent magnet field and no constantly excited field in the energy conversion device, and if this embodiment is used for converting mechanical energy to electrical energy, then fgpT may have to be changed slightly to make IF non zero when IA is zero. Otherwise, generation may not be able to start up. c FIG. 7 is a block diagram of another embodiment of the present invention. The External Command Device 11 generates a current command VIFC to the Field ControllingCircuit 15. This in turn operates the Field DrivingCircuit 4, driving current IF through the SeparatelyExcited Field 3. VIFC also operates the FunctionGenerator 14, which generates a current command VIAC to the Armature Controlling Circuit 12, where l VIAc fgpT l vIFc . This in turn operates the ArmatureDriving Circuit 10, causing the Armature 9 and the SeriesField 8 to have current IA flowing in them, where 1A OPT IF d FIG. 8 is a block diagram of another embodiment of the present invention.The External Command Device 11 generates a command VFC to the Field Controlling Circuit 15.This in turn operates the Field Driving Circuit 4.Separately Excited Field current IF is detected by theSeparately Excited Field Current Sensor 17, which outputs.signal VIFD to the Function Generator 14. The latter generates a current command VIAC to the Armature lControlling Circuit 12, where VIAC fOPT VIFD . This in turn operates the Armature Driving Circuit 10, causing theArmature 9 and the Series Field 8 to have current IA flowing in them, where IA fOPT 1 IF 3. These embodiments of the present invention are constructed with functional blocks whose implementation is known to those skilled in the art. However, for completeness, a brief description of some of the ways in which each functional block can be implemented is included. The numbers refer to FIGS. 3 through 8. a The External Command Device 11 can be a voltage source, such as a variable resistor with one end grounded, the other end connected to a fixed voltage, and the center tap as the output. b The Armature Controlling Circuit 12 and the FieldControlling Circuit 15 can each be implemented as a time ratio control circuit. This can be a pulse width modulator operating at a fixed frequency. It can also be a voltage to frequency converter operating with a fixed pulse width. Variable pulse width and variable frequency operation can be combined together to achieve time ratio control, also c The Armature Driving Circuit 10 and the FieldDriving Circuit 4 can each be implemented by various power switching devices combined with a diode. Driven by a time ratio control circuit, the switching device is operated to be alternately on conducting or off non conducting . The diode allows current to flow in the load during the time that the switching device is off.Silicon controlled rectifiers, power transistors,Darlington transistors, and power field effect transistors are all commonly employed in this application. For high current controllers, a parallel connection of these parts can be used to achieve the desired current handling capability. d The Armature Current Sensor 16, the Shunt FieldCurrent Sensor 13, and the Separately Excited FieldCurrent Sensor 17 can each be implemented by a noninductive resistor, such as those used as ampere meter shunts. Another type of device that can be used is aHall effect current probe. e The Function Generator 14 can be implemented by using one of several analog techniques. A power series l approximation of fOpT or fOpT 1 can be constructed with multipliers and summing amplifiers. A piecewise linear 1 approximation of fopT or fOpT can be built using amplifiers and diodes. An excellent reference on this topic is the Nonlinear Circuits Handbook published by Analog Devices, Inc., Norwood, Massachusetts 02062, 1974, chapter 2 1. A combination digital and analog technique can also be used. A Read Only Memory ROM serves as a look up table for the desired function. The ROM is addressed by the digital output of an analog to 1 digital converter for FOPT or f IF ror converters for fopT IAIp . The output of the ROM feeds a digital to analog converter to change the digital value of the function to analog form. 4. FIGS. 9 through 14 are the schematic of a controller designed for use in an electric vehicle.This controller can drive a dc motor or it can operate the motor as a generator to recharge the vehicle sbatteries regenerative braking . Each figure of the schematic shows one functional block of FIG. 5, upon which this controller is based. a FIG. 9 is the schematic of an External CommandDevice. The armature current command VIAC is selected by the multiplexer 18 from the analog output of either the 5 kilohm potentiometer in the accelerator pedal 19 or the 5 kilohm potentiometer in the brake pedal 20,The selection of the command source is made by the digital signal BRAKED, which comes from a switch in the brake pedal 21. The signal SHUTDOWN turns off the controller when neither pedal is engaged or when both pedals are engaged. b FIG. 10 is the schematic of a Function Generator.Armature current command VIAC is compared to two reference voltages by comparators 24 and 25. The digital outputs of the comparators control the multiplexer 26, which selects a fixed offset through the X inputs of the multiplexer to be added to a selected fraction ofVIAC through the Y inputs of the multiplexer .The result is the field current command VIFC The values of the resistors are chosen to make VIFc fopT V. for the particular motor being used. fOpT VIAC is approximated by a four section piecewise linear function of VIAC The first three sections are achieved by selecting resistor values to make the fractions of VIAC going into the Y inputs of the multiplexer equal to the slopes of the piecewise linear approximation above each of the first three breakpoints, and by selecting the values of the remaining resistors to make the fixed off sets going into the X inputs of the multiplexer such thatVIFC fOpT VIAC at the first three breakpoints of the piecewise linear approximation. The fourth section is a current limit region, and is reached when the CurrentLimit Sense input of the Field Controlling CircuÅat pulse width modulator 37 in FIG. 12 receives a signal greater than 200 millivolts. c FIG. 11 is the schematic of an Arnature ContrqllingCircuit. The output of the current sensor 27 is amplified times 32 by a differential amplifier circuit whose active elements are amplifiers 28 and 29. The multiplexer 61 selects between an inverting differential amplifier circuit and a non inverting differential amplifier circuit. This is necessary because current in the current sensor flows in one direction during accelerating and in the other direction during braking. The pulse width modulator 30 receives its current command VIAC from the External Command Device FIG. 9 and receives a reference related to the amount of current flowing in the armature from the output of the differential amplifier circuit. The output of the pulse width modulator is low true ANDed separately with ACCELERATEB and BRAKEB by OR gates 31 and 32.The resulting signals and their complements, namely PWMACCELB and PWMACCEL, andPWMBRAKEB and PWMBRAKE, operate the Armature DrivingCircuit.SYNCB and CT connect to the Field Controlling Circuit FIG. 12 and synchronize the pulse width modulator in that circuit with the Armature Controlling Circuit pulse width modulator. d FIG. 12 is the schematic of a Field ControllingCircuit. The output of the current sensor 35 is amplified times 32 by a differential amplifier circuit whose active element is amplifier 36. The amplifier s output provides the pulse width modulator 37 with a reference related to the amount of current flowing 4n the field winding. The pulsewidth modulator receives its current command VIFc from the Function Generator FIG 10 .SYNCB and CT originate in the Armature ControllingCircuit FIG. 11 and synchronize the pulse width modulatorr 30 and 37 in the two controlling circuits.The output of the pulse width modulator 37 isPWMFIELDB. This signal and its complement, PWMFIELD, operate the Field Driving Circuit. e FIG. 13 is the schematic of an Armature DrivingCircuit. In the accelerating mode, when PWMACCEL goes high transistor 39 turns on, which then turns on the high current transistor 40. When PWMACCEL is low, there is no base drive to transistor 40 from transistor 39.Also, PWMACCELB is high, turning on transistor 41, which then turns on transistor 42. The latter removes stored charge from high current transistor 40, causing it to turn off rapidly. When high current transistor 40 is off, current flowing in the armature can continue to circulate through diode 43. The result is a dc dc converter from t to the motor back emf, where V back emf. In the regenerative braking mode, when PWMBRAKEB goes low transistor 44 turns on, which then turns on the high current transistor 45. When PWMBRAKEB is high, there is no base drive to transistor 45 from transistor 44. Also, PWMBRAKE is low, turning on transistor 46, which then turns on transistor 47. The latter removes stored charge from high current transistor 45, causing it to turn off rapidly. When high current transistor 45 is off, current flowing in the armature can flow through diode 48 into the V supply. The result is a dc dc converter from the motor back emf to V where V back emf. This circuit is rated for 20 Amperes of armature current. For each additional 20 Amperes of current, the circuitry within the dotted line 49 must be replicated and added in parallel to that shown in FIG. 13. If this is done, then the values of the base resistors 50 and 51 for high current transistors 40 and 45, respectively, must be selected individually for each of the paralleled transistors such that they share their load equally. f FIG. 14 is the schematic of a Field DrivingCircuit Its operation is identical to that of theArmature Driving Circuit in the accelerating mode. g The following table gives the manufacturer and the manufacturer s part number for the integrated circuits and transistors in this controller. Two gates from the same integrated circuit together in parallel for greater drive capability is indicated by Reference No. Part No. Manufacturer 18,61 CD4007C National Semiconductor Corp. Santa Clara, California, USA.22 MM74C86 National Semiconductor Corp.23, 33, 34, 38 MM74C04 National Semiconductor Corp. 26 CD4052C I 31, 32 MM74C32 24,25,28,29,36 LM224 Motorola, Inc., Phoenix, Arizona, U.S.A. 40,59 MJ11033 Motorola, Inc., 45 My11032 a 42,57 2N3906 I1 II 47 2N3904 U 52,53,54,55 in4003 60 MR1121 30,37 SG1524 Silicon General Inc. Garden Grove, California USA.43,48 6220135CJ Westinghouse Electric Corp., Youngwood, Pennsylvania, USA.39,41,56,58 RCP701D RCA Corportion, Somerville, New Jersey, USA.44,46 RCP700D RCA Corportion, Somerville, New Jersey, USA. The above description of the present invention provides a general method for improving the operating efficiency of electromechanical energy conversion devices and also provides several embodiments of the invention. Controllers embodying the present invention can be used, for example, in industrial motor control, electric vehicle control including both accelerating and regenerative braking and the control of generators.Additional possible variations of the method and apparatus of the present invention will be evident to those skilled in the art.