# Process for producing a stretch blow molded polypropylene bottle.

## Abstract
Method of molding a bottle shaped container of orientation molded polypropylene resin. To produce a bottle shaped container of polypropylene resin having superior transparency, this method comprises the steps of rapidly heating the inside surface P1 of a parison P molded in cylindrical shape with or without a bottom at higher than approx. 170 to 220 C which is the melting point of the poly propylene resin by a heat source 1 , then quenching the parison P to thereby remove a number of fine ribs produced due to the strain at the inner surface of the parison P , and then molding the parison P by the usual heat blow molding process into a bottle shaped container.

## Claims
Claims 1. A stretch blow molded polypropylene bottle which is characterized by that the inside is very smooth and free from fine streaks which are formed by strain. 2. A process for producing a stretch blow molded polypropylene bottle which comprises heating rapidly, followed by cooling rapidly, the inside of a parison formed into a cylinder with or without a bottom, to 1700C to 2200C which is the melting point of polypropylene, and subsequently molding the parison into a bottle by a usual blow molding process. 3. A process for producing a stretch blow molded polypropylene bottle which comprises heating rapidly, followed by cooling rapidly, the inside of a parison formed into a cylinder with or without a bottom, to 1700C to 2200C which is the melting point is polypropylene, when blow molding the parison into a bottle.

## Description
SPECIFICATION STRETCH BLOW MOLDED POLYPROPYLENE BOTTLE AND PROCESS FOR PRODUCING THE SAMETechnical Field The present invention relates to a stretch blow molded polypropylene bottle having high clarity and a process for producing the same.Background Art To date, polyvinyl chloride bottles are generally known as plastics bottles having clarity. Polyvinyl chloride bottles, however, have become less used than before on account of problems encountered in the disposal of used bottles and toxicology of monomers contained in polyvinyl chloride. One of the materials which can replace polyvinyl chloride as a molding material for plastics bottles is polypropylene.Polypropylene, however, is not as clear and mechanically strong as polyvinyl chloride. In order to improve the properties of polypropylene, stretch blow molding is employed when polypropylene bottles are produced. Stretch blow molding crystallizes molecules in the resin and provides bottles with clarity, mechanical strength, and gas barrier properties. Stretch blow molded polypropylene bottles are still inferior in clarity to polyvinyl chloride bottles. There has been a strong desire for polypropylene bottles which are at least as clear as polyvinyl chloride bottles.Disclosure of Invention The present invention has been completed to satisfy the above mentioned desire, based on the finding that the poor clarity of polypropylene bottles is attributable to many fine streaks which are formed by strain on the bottle inside wall.By making the inside of the bottle extremely smooth, it is possible to make the bottle as clear as polyvinyl chloride bottles. The polypropylene bottle of this invention has a very smooth inside surface free of fine streaks, as shown in Fig.9. It was found that many fine streaks which are formed by strain on the inside wall of the bottle are remains of the fine streaks formed on the inside wall of the paris on prior to blow molding. According to the process of this invention, the blow step starts after the fine streaks on the inside of the parison have been removed by the method mentioned below. In the first method, the inside of the bottomed parison or unbottomed cylindrical parison is heated rapidly to l700C to 2200C which is a melting point of polypropylene and then cooled rapidly. After this heat treatment, which causes many fine streaks to disappear, the parison is heated and blowmolded into a bottle in a usual manner. In the second method, the inside of the bottomed parison or unbottomed cylindrical parison is heated rapidly to l700C to 2200C which is a melting point of polypropylene simultaneously with blow molding step. The heating of the inside of the parison causes fine streaks to disappear. Whichever method is employed, the inside of the parison becomes very smooth and is free of fine streaks, as shown inFig. 8, and the inside of the bottle molded, followed by rapid cooling, from such a parison is also smooth and free of fine streaks, as shown in Fig. 9. The conventional polypropylene bottles are very poor in clarity because many fine streaks formed on the inside of the bottle scatter light, causing the bottle to look white. In contrast, the polypropylene bottles of this invention has very smooth inside surface which makes the bottles look very clear. Incidentally, experiments revealed that when the inside of the parison is heated rapidly and then cooled slowly, the irregularity of the fine streaks is enhanced by increased strain. See Fig. 10. Therefore, it is necessary that the inside of the parison be cooled rapidly after heating, even in the case where the heating step is followed immediately by blow molding step. It has been confirmed that the bottles which are blowmolded after rapid cooling of the parison inside exhibits greatly improved clarity,, mechanical strength, and gas barrier properties. Presumably, this is because the crystallinity of polypropylene increases to a greater extent due to rapid heating and rapid cooling. As will be apparent from the above mentioned, the bottles produced according to the process of this invention are as clear as polyvinyl chloride bottles and has high mechanical strength and gas barrier properties. All is required in the process of this invention is to heat and cool rapidly the inside of the parison prior to blow molding.The process is simple, and yet provides stretch blow molded polypropylene bottles.Brief Description of Drawings Fig. 1 is a partly cutaway front view of a bottle of this invention. Fig. 2 is a partly cutaway front view of a parison which has undergone heat treatment on the inside. Fig. 3 is a longitudinal sectional view of a parison which is undergoing heat treatment on its inside. Fig 4 is a horizontal sectional view of a parison which is undergoing heat treatment on its inside simultaneously with heating for blow molding. Fig. 5 is a longitudinal sectional view of a parison which is undergoing heat treatment on its inside simultaneously with heating for blow molding. Fig. 6 is an enlarged view of the inside of the parison before heat treatment. Fig. 7 is an enlarged view of the inside of the conventional bottle. Fig. 8 is an enlarged view of the inside of the bottle which has undergone heat treatment according to the present invention. Fig. 9 is an enlarged view of the inside of the bottle of this invention. Fig. 10 is an enlarged view of the inside of the parison which has been cooled slowly after heat treatment.Best Mode for Carrying Out the Invention We will describe an example of the first process for molding the bottle according to the present invention. As shown in Fig. 3, an injection molded or extrusion molded polypropylene parison P , with or without bottom, is fitted to a guide 2 in which is installed a heating means 1 such as an infrared heater which is as long as the parison.The heating means 1 is activated so that the inside P1 of the parison is heated to about 1700C to 2200C which a melting point of polypropylene. Subsequently, the inside P1 of the parison and the parison P are cooled rapidly. This rapid heating relieves strains, permitting the fine streaks on the inside tordisppear and making the inside very smooth. The smoothness of the inside wall is fixed by rapid cooling. The parison which has undergone rapid heating and cooling is subsequently heated and stretch blow molded into a bottle in a usual manner. In an example of the second process for producing bottles according to the present invention, the parison is heated externally by a usual heater 3, and at the same time, the inside of the parison is heated by a heating element 5 placed in the parison, as shown in Figs. 4 and 5. The heating element emits heat upon activation by high frequency supplied from a high frequ ency transmitter 4. Thus, the inside of the parison is heated to 1700C to 2200C which a melting point of polypropylene. While hot, the parison is molded into a bottle by stretch blow molding. The second process, in which the heating of the parison inside is accomplished simultaneously with the usual heating process for blow molding, requires no additional steps but does require a special mandrel to hold the parison. The first process, on the other hand, requires no special equipment but takes additional time.