# Fuel level gauge.

## Abstract
In an external casing 5 arranged vertical to fuel surface in a fuel tank of vehicles or the like are provided a slender resistance body 6 along the axial line of the external casing 5 , a contact member 7 in sliding contact with the resistance body 6 and a support block 16 or float 22 for arranging the contact member 7 in the most suitable contact with the resistance body 6 . The shape of contact point of the contact member 7 is arranged in such form as is capable of lessening the resistance of its contact with the resistance body 6 to an extent as feasible as possible. In order to avoid bad influence on the action of the resistance body 6 and contact member 7 , there is formed a recess portion at the bottom of the external casing 5 for the fuel gauge.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. In a vertically set fuel gauge having a float adapted to move up and down following a change in the height of fuel surface and a contact member attached to said float and adapted to take out a change in fuel surface as an electric signal of change in resistance value, an assembly structure of a contact at member in a vertically set fuel gauge, which comprises at least pair of contact elements in a confronting manner, around both lateral surfaces of a resistance body and a support block adapted to hold a contact member consisting of said contact elements and formed with a guide hole for regulating the position of said resistance body and said float 2. In a system for fixing a contact member, as claimed in c laim 1, an assembly structure of a contact member which comprises said contact member, having a base portion corresponding to said support block and at least a pair of contact fingers extending inwardly from both ends of said base portion. 3. In a system for fixing a contact member, as claimed in claim 2, an assembly structure of a contact member, which comprises said contact fingers in two series extending in parallel inwardly of four corners of said base portion of contact member. 4. In a system for fixing a contact member, as claimed in claims or the assembly of said contact member, which comprises the contact point of said contact member in sliding contact with said resistance body being shaped in slender form. 5. In a system for fixing a contact member, as claimed in claims 2, 3 or 4, an assembly structure of a contact member having contact fingers, at least one of said contact fingers having a length and mass different from those of the other. 6. In a system for fixing a contact member, as claimed in claim 1, an assembly structure of a contact member which comprises said support block having bottom formed lateral walls sufficient to house the base portion of said contact member and a guide hole piercing the center of said support block for insertion of the resistance body. 7. In a system for fixing a contact member as claimed in claim 6, an assembly structure of a contact member having a guide hole formed little larger than the croos sectional shape of said resistance body. 8. In a system for fixing a contact member, as claimed in claims 1 or 6, an assembly structure of a contact member which comprises said float being formed with a groove sufficient to hold said support block. 9. In a vertically set fuel gauge having a float adapted to move up and down following a change in the height of fuel surface, a contact membKer attached to said float and adapted to ,take out a change in the height of fuel surface as an electric signal of a change resistance value, an assembly structure of said contact member which comprises at least a pair of contact elements in a confronting manner and in contact with both lateral surfaces of said resistance body, and a support block adapted to hold a contact member consisting pf said contact elements and formed with a guide hole for regulating the position of said resistance body, and float, said support block being formed with projections for controlling contact pressure between said support block and resistance body. 10. wIn a system for fixing contact member, as claimed in claim 9, an assembly structure of a contact member, which comprises said projections being formed with such inclination as may come in contact with part of contact fingers of said contact member so that said contact fingers under the required pressure can be pressed against at least the resistance circuit pattern of said resistance body. 11. In a system for fixing a contact member, as claimed in claims 9 or 10, an assembly structure of a contact member, which comprises said projections being formed integral with said support block. 12. In a system for fixing a contact member, as claimed in claim 9, an assembly structure of a contact member, which comprises said contact member having at least a series of contact fingers in a confronting manner in parallel with said resistance body, at least one of said contact fingers being so formed as may show a length or mass different from those of the other fingers. 13. In a system for fixing a contact member, as claimed in claim 12, an assembly structure of a contact member, which comprises said projections of support block being adapted to adjust its position corresponding to the construction of said contact ,fingers. 14. In a vertically set fuel gauge having a float adapted to move up and down following a change in the height of fuel surface and a contact with a resistance body, to take out a change in the height of fuel surface as an electric signal of a change in resistance value, an assembly of a contact member which comprises at least a pair of contact elements in a confronting manner around both lateral surfaces of said resistance body and said float being adapted to hold said contact member and formed with a guide hole for regulating the position of said float with said resistance body. 15. In a system for fixing a contact member in a vertically set fuel gauge, as claimed in claim 14, an assembly structure df a contact member, which cdmprises said float having a portion of a depth sufficient to house the base portion of said contact member. 16. In a system for fixing a contact member, as claimed in claim 15, an assembly structure of a contact member which comprises said holding portion of float being formed with projections for controlling pressure contact between the contact fingers of said contact member and said resistance body. 17. In a Vertically set fuel gauge having a float adapted to move up and down following a change in the height of fuel surface and a contact member attached to said float and adapted, while in contact with said resistance body, to take out a change in the eight of fuel surface as an electric signal of a change in resistance value, a structure of a ontact member in a vertically set fuel gauge, which comprises the contact point of said contact member in sliding contact with said resistance body being shaped in slender form 18. In a structure of a contact member in a vertically set fnel gauge, as set forth in claim 17,, a structure of contact member being formed of the material of said contact member in an integral body by extrusion.. 19 In a vertically set fuel gauge having a float adapted to move up and down following a change in the height of fuel surface and a contact member attached to said float and adapted, while in contact with said resistance body, to take out a change in the height of fuel surface as an electric signal of a change in resistance value, a fuel gauge which comprises a recess being formed at the bottom of an external casing for the fuel gauge. 20. In a vertically set fuel gauge, as claimed in claim 19, a vertically set fuel gauge Xlhich.comprises said recess being formed high in the center so as to cause the lower end of said resistance body to project outwardly from the bottom of said external casing.

## Description
DESCRIPTION Vertically Set Fuel Gauge and Assembly Structure of the Same and Contact MemberThireof Background of the Invention 1 Field of the Invention This invention relates to a fuel gauge for use in vehicles or the like and more particularly, to a new assembly structure of a vertically set fuel gauge and its contact member. In further detail, the invention relates to a construction of a vertically set fuel gauge having a contact member in contact with a resistance body of the vertically set fuel gauge, said.contact member being attached to a float in optimum condition whereby it is made possible to measure the most accurate fuel surface. 2 Description of the Prior Art For measuring the amount of fuel remaining in a tank of vehicles such as automobiles or the like, the conventional method consists mainly in using a float adapted to move up and down according to a change in the height of fuel surface, converting the displacement of the float to a circular motion of an electric contact point at the ena of an arm connected to the float, taking out the change in the height of fuel surface as an electric signal of said contact point sliding in a coil resistance body, thereby permitting said electric signal to indicate the remaining amount of fuel by means of a bimetal or coil type receiver unit. Accordingly, such conventional method has several drawbacks such as an unsatIsfactory accuracy of the coil resistance body itself, a sho t range of sliding movement, low degree of absolute accuracy fo the displacement of fuel surface. Moreover, since the float is connected Moooteo Ue of said arm, an ample spacing is required for installation of the fuel gauge, and when the fuel tank is of a transformed shape, there occurs no linear change in resistance value for the remaining amount of fuel. As means for overcoming such drawbacks, various kinds of vertically set fuel gauge have been proposed in recent years. The structure of such a vertically set fuel gauge consists of an upper lid attached to a fuel tank, a fuel suction pipe either or not piercing the lid for communication with the inside of the fuel tank, a metal for installing a terminal and a resistance body in a direction vertical to fuel surface in the fuel tank. In this case, the resistance body is formed of an aluminum base plate having its surface treated by anodic oxidation or a base.plate of paper impregnated with phenol resin having a conductive metal foil of high specific resistance applied either to one surface or both surfaces thereof, thus forming a suitable resistance pattern by etching. Around this resistance body are provided a float adapted to move up and down following a change in the height of fuel surface, a contact member attached to the float and adapted to contact the resistance body for detecting a change in resistance value, an external casing designed to protect said elements and formed with orifices for damping a sudden change in the height of fuel surface and a bottom plate for holding at least the lower end of the resistance body of the structural members of the fuel gauge at the bottom of the external casing.In this case, it is in common with the conventional method that an electric signal as a change in resistance value is transmitted to a direct read out meter or differential coil type meter to indicate the amount of fuel in an analog or manual manner, and said electric signal is treated by A D conversion to indicate the amount of fuel in a digital manner. Partidularly, however, the resistance pattern by etching or similar treatment whereby it is rendered possible to enhance absolute accuracy of the resistance pattern in a simple manner and to make the resistance pattern conform to a transformed shape of the fuel tank, thus ensuring a linear relationship between the amount of fuel and resistance pattern and moreover, since the resistance body can be provided in slender form, it is easy to enhance a decomposed function of change in the height of fuel surface and besides, owing to the auction of orifices of the external casing, it is also possible to prevent an abrupt change in the height of fuel surface which may arise from swinging movement of the vehicle. Consequently, it is possible to apply a system of high accuracy to an indication meter, which is characteristic of vertically arranged fuel gauges of this kind. However, as shown inFig. 1, in the conventional system, wherein the contact member 1 attached to the float in the external casing 4 is arranged in parallel with the lengthwise diraction of the resistance body, it has been confirmed that there occurs a difference in sliding frictional resistance of the contact member, defending on its up and down sliding diraction along the resistance body 3.Namely, in such an example as shown in the drawing wherein the contact member is attached to the upper end of the float and its lower end is permitted to come in sliding contact with the resistance body, frictional resistance shows up smaller at the time of ascent of the contact member 1 than at the time of its descent in relationship with buoyance of the float 2, and consequently, hysteresis of resistance value tends to become large due to the up and down movement of the float, thus lowering the measuring accuracy of the fuel gauge.More apparently, when the float is elevated and its buoyance comes in equilibrium with frictional resistance of contact point of the contact member 1, such point H1 is read out as the level of fuel surface at that time, whereas, when the float 2 is lowered and its gravity comes in equilibrium with frictional resistance of the contact point, such point H2 is read out as the level of fuel surface. Therefore, a reading between the time of elevation and lowering of the float 2 cannot be consistent with the amount of displacement of fuel surface in practical instances. For this reason, hysteresis of resistance value in terms of a resistance body will become large due to the up and down movement of the float 2 until it provides a large factor for lowering the accuracy of indication of measurement by the fuel gauge. On the other hand, fuel surface in the fuel tank tends to tilt or swing in a complicated manner according to the movement of the vehicle or ship so that the float too will swing in the same manner. In particular, when there occurs an abrupt swing or inclination of fuel surface, coercive external force is transmitted to the condition of contact between the contact member 1 and the resistance body 3 via the float 2, and when the float is forced to swing or tilt irregularly and vehemently, the contact member will be extremely pressed against the resistance body 3, thus leading to the danger of permanent transformation of the contact member 1 and change of its spring constant. If so, it is impossible to maintain an optimum electriccontact sliding between the contact member 1 and the resistance body 3 to cause a factor of fundamentally impairing the accuracy of measurement, which should be cosidered a very unfavorable codition.Summary of the Invention The fundamental object of the invention is to provide a vertically set fuel gauge which can resolve several problems or drawbacks inherent in the conventional fuel gauge, as already explained in a simple manner hereinbefore, and morc particularly, to provide a new assembly structure of a contact member and a float. Other objects of the invention are to provide an assembly structure of a contact member in a vertically set fuel gauge suitable for preferably reducing error in the indication value of fuel surface level, which error may arise from the difference in frictional resistance following the up and down sliding of the contact member, and at the same time, for ensuring a smooth optimum condition of contact between the contact member and the resistance body even in the case of tilting or swinging of fuel surface. With a view to obtaining the aforesaid objects, according to the present invention, there are provided at least a pair of contact elements in a confronting manner around both lateral surfaces bf a resistance body and a support block adapted to hold said contact elements and formed with a guide hole for regulating the position of the resistance body and float. The support block can be formed in an integral body of plastic material with high molding accuracy so that said support block itself housing the contact member of said contact elements can function to maintain an optimum sliding contact between the resistance body and the contact member.The guide hole is so formed in the center of said support block as to pierce therethrough and adapted to regulate the movement of the floss not beyond a constant extent in order that complicated movement of the float following the swing or inclination of fuel surface may not be transmitted to the contact member directly whereby it is possible to maintain a satisfactory condition of sliding contact between the resistance body and the contact member. In a preferred embodiment of the present invention, there is provided a pair of contact elements in a confronting manner around both lateral surfaces of the resistance body through the float and the support block. The contact elements are formed in an integral body of conductive resilient. metal plate by punching and they are provided with a pair of contact point fingers or preferably with two pairs and particularly, in case the contact member of said contact elements is provided with two pairs of contact pqint fingers, it becomes possible to eliminate an undesirable rotary moment imposed on said contact point fingers.In another preferred embodiment of the present invention showing an assembly structure of the contact member, the float itself can be provided with the function of a support device so that said support block can be dispensed with, thus reducing the number of parts for use in the present invention. In still another preferred embodiment of the present invention, the contact point of the contact member for sliding contact with the resistance body can be shaped into a long circle or ellipse in. the direction of sliding whereby it is possible to preferably reduce the difference in upward or downward sliding resistance of the contact point in contact with the resistance body and to prevent jumping of the contact point, thereby enhancing the accuracy of measurement of fuel surface. In still another preferred embodiment of the present invention, the bottom of an external casing for a vertically set fuel gauge is formed centrally high so that bad influence on the structure ofthe contact member can be avoided, such bad influence being likely to occur due to dust or impurities of water. With reference to the accompanying drawings wherein like numerals designate like parts throughout, the present invention can be better understood by those skilled in the art and the objects and advantages of the invention will become apparent.Brief Description of the Drawings Fig. 1 is a conceptual cross sectional view showing the structure of a contact member in a vertically set fuel gauge according to the conventional system Fig. 2 is a view illustrating hysteresis with respect to the sliding direction of the contact member of Fig. 1 Fig. 3 is a perspective view showing a decomposed structure assembly of contact member in a vertically set fuel gauge according to a preferred embodiment of the present invention, together with part of an external casing, as seen from downward Fig. 4 is a view taken along a central cross section of the structure in assembled form of Fig. D Fig. 5 is a plan view of a support block according to the present invention Fig. 6 is a view taken along central cross section of the structure of Fig. 5 Fig. 7 is an developed view of a contact ii. member according to the present invention Fig. 8 is a perspective view of a float in another preferred embodiment of the present invention, concurrently serving as a support block in function Fig. 9 is a conceptual enlarged view of a contact condition between the contact point of the contact member and the resistance body of Fig. 1 Fig. 10 is a conceptual perspective view showing the structure of a contact member in part in a vertically set fuel gauge according to the present invention Fig. 1 1 is a conceptual cross sectional view of the bottom construction of an external casing for a vertically set fuel gauge according to the conventional system and Fig. 12 is a conceptual cross sectional view of the bottom construction of an external casing for a vertically set fuel gauge according to the present invention.Detailed Description of the Invention With reference to the preferred embodiments shown in the accompanying drawings, the invention will be explained in detail hereinafter. Referring to Fig. 3 through Fig. 6, for example, an external casing 5 of the required diameter is formed from an aluminum material by punching and provided with orifices not shown in the proximity of its upper and lower ends respectively for damping an abrupt change in fuel surface, the bottom of the external casing being inclined toward its external circumference so as to prevent small solid precipitates contained in fuel from impairing a resistance body 6 and a contact member7. Along the axial line of the external casing is disposed said resistance body in upward and downward extension and, needless to say, the resistance body may have its base material formed of paper impregnated with phenol resin having the required circuit pattern formed thereon. But, in the case of taking into account the problem of warping to occur on the base material, it is preferable to form the required circuit pattern 6A by etching on a chromium foil pasted to an iron plate or metal plate with its surface subjected to an electric insulating treatment or to an aluminum plate treated by anodic oxidation.Though not shown in the drawings, the back surface of the resistance body may be formed with an earth circuit pattern and another pattern may be provided either at the side of the required circuit pattern or at the side of the earth circuit pattern, so as to take out a warning signal of remaining fuel.As shown in Figs. 3 and 4, the contact member 7, support block 16 and float 22 are so arranged as inserted onto the resistance body 6 wormed in the aforesaid manner. As is apparent from Figs. 3 and.7, the contact member 7 may be formed in an integral body from a conductive resilient metal plate by punching for contacting purposes, and it consists of a base portion 8 confronting the support block 16, two series of contact fingers 9 12 in inward parallel in confrontation extending from four corners of the base portion 8, a contact 13 of suitable extruded height attached to the top end of each finger, an opening 14 formed in the center of the base portion 8 for insertion of the resistance body 6 and at least some holes 15 formed therein for fixing the support block by means of screws S. As shown in the drawings, the contact 13 is preferably shaped in elliptical or long circular form conforming to the direction of its sliding and contact with the resistance body for reducing hysteresis.As shown in Fig. 7, when the fingers 9 12 are bent in the manner showe v the arrows, they confrcnt each other in extension so as to pinch the resistance body from both sides until they can slide in contact with the resistance body 6 while being arranged in the direction horizontal with fuel surface. According to this arrangement of the contact fingers 9 12, hysteresis at their up and down sliding contact with the resistance body can be reduced remarkably and contact pressure of the contacts 13 with the resistance body may also be reduced thus prolonging the life time of the, fingers.As illustrated in the preferred embodiment with two series of contact fingers, such arrangement is considered preferable in that it is possible to offset a rotary and bending moment imposed on the base portion of the contact member through the contact fingers as compared with cases where for example, the contact fingers 9, 10 or 11. 12 are arranged in the form of one pair only. Incidentally, while the contact fingers are formed with equal width and length and the entity of the contact member 7 is constituted in a symmetric manner as shown in the drawings, it may also be considered effective that the width or length of the contact fingers be made different or some material, whether analogous or heterogenous, may be pasted onto the contact member, in yiew of the fact that covibration of the contact fingers due to external vibration can be prevented..In this preferred embodiment, the contact fingers 10, 12 are disposed on the required circuit pattern 6A of the resistance body and the other contact fingers 9, 11 are disposed on the earth circuit pattern the back surface thereof but converse arrangements will not cause any problem whatsoever nor do they cause any discrepancy in the procedure of assembling in each case. As illustratrated in Fig. 3, 5 and 6, the support block 16 which is received the contact member 7 is shaped in rectangular form, which may be integrally cut out or extruded from a material of duracon or the like and is provided with at least rectangular bottom formed lateral walls 17 and 18, a centrally pierced rectangular guide hole 19 for insertion of the resistance body 6 and piercing holes 20 confronting the fixing holes 15 for the contact member 6. As shown in Fig. 5, the width of the glide hole 19 may be such that when the float 22 is rotated to a maximum extent, its diagonal points A and B come in contact with the resistance body and in this stage, both contacts in the contact fingers 9 12 cannot be separated from the resistance body and either of them or both cannot suffer any permanent transformation or a change in spring constant.Typically, it is desirable to make said width W about 1 mm larger than the thickness of the resistance body.Particularly, as shown in the drawings, in the case of forming inwardly inclined projections 21 at each two places of both lateral walls 18, the contact member 7 may be positioned in place by means of said projections 21 and both lateral walls 17 and 18 and especially, the projections 21 may serve to hold the proximity of base portion of the contact fingers 9 l2i thus regulating the pressure of sliding contact with the resistance body 6 automatically and most suitably, so that it is made easy to bend the contact fingers, to adjust contact pressure with the resistance body and to assemble the contact member with the support block 16.In the preferred embodiment, the projections 21 for regulating contact pressure are constituted so as to, be formed with the other parts in an integral body, but, as explained already before, if a covibration preventive means is applied to the contact fingers, the projections will be improved so as to be adjusted or fixed separately and movably so that it comes.possible to take care of imparting most suitable contact pressure to the contact fingers separately. The support block 16 holding the contact member 7 can be attached to the float 22. In this case, as shown inFig. 4, the bottom of the float 22 is formed with a groove 23 of a depth sufficient to receive the support block 16 and the central part thereof is.formed with an insert hole24 for piercing the resistance body therein and also with screw holes 25 for fixing the support block 16 and the contact member 7. As shown in the drawings, it is possible to form the float 22 into a circular colum of suitable float material such as nitrile phenol foaming resin in conformity to the shape of the external casing 5. The recess indicated at 26 in Fig. 4 can be provided as an escape portion for a metal attached to a lid body of the external casing and also for terminals or the like. In the aforesaid preferred embodiment, the contact member 7 is attached to the float 22 through the support block 16 in point of structure, but by selecting a suitable float material for use, it is possible to form such float 22A, shown in Fig. 8, as is formed with a holding portion 27 for the contact member 7 to satisfy the function of the support block 16, a guide hole 28, fixing holes 29 and projections 30 in an integral manner. In this kind of arrangement, the number of necessary parts can be further reduced and low costs be expected. As described hereinbefore, with respect to the assembly structure of the contact member in a vertically set fuel gauge, the contact member is such that it slides in contact with the resistance body from both sides in a confronting manner and is arranged in horizontal condition with fuel surface and therefore, it is confirmed that hysteresis of up and down sliding of the contact member can be reduced satisfactorily, as compared with the arrangement of a contact member along the lengthwise direction of a resistance body inherent in the conventional system. Thus, according to the present invention, the support block serves to regulate the relationship of sliding contact between the contact member and the resistance body, thereby simplifying the assembling operation. Moreover, the support block is provided with projections for automatically regulating sliding contact between the contact fingers of the contact member and the surface of the resistance body so that an operation of adjusting contact point pressure during assembling operation of the contact member can be not only omitted but also contact pressure be maintained for use over long periods of time in the most suitable manner.Moreover, even if complicated external vibration such as running vibration of vehicles is imposed on the float through fuel surface and the float is caused thereby to tilt or swing irregularly, said support block can ensure a smooth and satisfactory contact between the resistance body and the contact member thereby effectively eliminating bad influences such as permanent transformation of the contact member or a change in spring constant. So, the assembly structure of the present invention is entitled to the most suitable means for measuring fuel surface with high accuracy and reliability. As shown in Figs. 1 and 9, the contact member 1 for use in this kind of fuel gauge has heretofore been formed of a thin phosphorus bronze plate or beryllium copper plate and the contact point IA at the top end of said contact member is formed into a bottom like shape which is fixed by welding, waxing or fastening means.In view of the contact surface between said contact point lA and the resistance body 3, such condition approximately amounts to a point contact at the initial stage, causing so serious trouble but during its use over long periods of time, it usually tends to wear out and increase its contact surface until contact resistance becomes largely increased, leading to an extremely undesirable condition. ,For the material of the contact point lA, cheap copper alloy is used in general but the increase in contact area, as mentioned above, will result in lowering the contact surface per unit area and an oxidized film formed on the contact point cannot be removed naturally so that such tendency presents itself as a problem in the accuracy of measurement, For this reason, the contact point has to be formed of a precious metal such as palladium, gold or platinum making the structure of the contact member very expensive in manufacture. By the way, in Fig. 1, numeral 2 designates a float and 4 an external casing for the fuel gauge, respectively. According to the present invention, as shown in Fig.10, the contact point 13 is extruded by pressing so as to project from the contact member 7 and formed into a long circle in the sliding direction in an integral manner.When the contact point 13 is shaped in slender form in the sliding direction, its contact surface with the resistance body, in use for long periods of time, can be maintained at an almost constant level. Consequently, it is possible to maintain contact pressure at a low level in stable condition and to lessen its wear against contact with the resistance body. Therefore, even when using some such cheap copper alloy for the material of the contact member 7, it is possible to remove an oxidized film formed on the surface of the contact point 13 very easily.Moreover, when the contact point 13 is shaped in slender form, as mentioned above2 it is possible to reduce resistance during the transfer of said contact point between the coils of circuit pattern of the resistance body and to prevent jumping of the contact point, all of which may be taken as concurrent advantages. In this kind of fuel gauge, as mentioned above, the resistance body vertically set in the external casing is arranged in the fuel tank but, as shown in Figs. 1 and 11, dust or impurities of water in the fuel tank are likely to enter the external casing 4 through its orifice 4A, and such impurities tend to be heaped at the bottom 4B of the external casing 4. Since the lower end 3A of the resistance body 3 is positioned at the bottom of the external casing 4, such impurities in heaped condition will gradually come in contact with the lower end 3A of the resistance body 3 so that there occurs the danger of quickening the impairment of the resistance pattern. On the other hand, such bad tendency increases the dander of shorting the resistance pattern and the circuit pattern which will lower the accuracy of meassurement to an extreme extent.Such impurities having entered the external casing 4 will not flow out naturally from the external casing 4 but increase in heaps at all times. Under these circumstances, in order to avoid this inconvenience, the lower end 3A of the resistance body, for example, may be so arranged as to be spaced part from the bottom 4B of the external casing which may look like some solution of said inconvenience at a glance. However, with such arrangement of the remaining amount of fuel cannot be achieved, with the result that the indication of remaining fuel may have to be given up at 20 or thereabouts, which is considered an undesirable factor. In the preferred embodiment of the present invention, therefore, in view of the aforesaid trouble, as shown inFig. 12, a bottom portion 5B formed either integral with the external casing 5 or separately formed, may be provided with a recess 5C in a position lower than the support portion of the lower end 6A of the resistance body 6. Owing to this arrangement, dust or impurities entering the external casing 5 through the orifice 5A may be accumulated at said recess 5C without being heaped at the lower end of the resistance body.Thus it becomes possible to prevent the shorting or impairment ofthe resistance body 6 due to impurities entering the external casing as is often the case with the conventional system and to permit measurement of the remaining fuel till an end in a satisfactory manner. The shape of said recess 5C has only to be so arranged as suitably inclined from the portion of bottom of the external casing in support of the lower end 6A of the resistance body for permitting the accumulation of impurities at said recess 5C in a natural manner. According to the preferred embodiment of the present invention, as explained above, since the bottom of the external casing for fuel gauge is formed into a recess for the accumulation of impurities, it is possible to protect the lower end of the resistance body from damage and preferably, to enhance the accuracy of measurement of the remaining amount of fuel, thereby furthering improvements in the reliability of this kind of fuel gauge. While the present invention has been explained with reference to the preferred embodiments, in the accompanying drawings, it is apparent that various modifications and alternatives can be made without departing from the spirit of the appended claims, and it is also apparent that the present invention is not limited to the accompanying drawings though reference is made to them for illustrative purposes.