# Passive safety belt system.

## Abstract
In a motor vehicle having a front hinged door 26 and an adjacent seat 10, a safety belt system, the safety belt com prises a lap strap 14, a shoulder strap 16 and a common strap 20 interconnected to form a three point safety belt. The free ends of the lap and shoulder straps 14 and 16 are connected to the rear edge of the door 26. The common strap 20 is con nected to an inertia reel 28 mounted inboard of and adjacent to the bottom of the back of the seat 26. A puller strap 30 interconnects a point 18 on the safety belt with a point 32 on the vehicle so that, when the door 26 is opened the puller strap 30 applies a force to the shoulder strap 16, thereby displacing the junction 18 between the lap, shoulder and common straps 14, 16 and 20 out of the plane containing their anchorages 22 and 24 and the inertia reel 28.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A passive safety belt system for a motor vehicle having a seat 10, 110 located adjacent to a front hinged door 26, 130 the system comprising a shoulder strap 16, 116 , a lap strap 14, 114 and a common strap 20, 120 interconnected to form a three point safety belt, the free ends of the shoulder, lap and common. straps being connected to respective anchorage means, one of which incorporates an inertia reel 28 , the anchorage means for the lap strap and the common strap each being connected to a respective one of a first point 22, 128 on the door in proximity to the bottom rear corner thereof and a location 28, 122 on the vehicle inboard of and adjacent to the bottom of the back of the seat 10, 110 and the anchorage means 24, 12a for the shoulder strap 16, 116 being connected to a point above the ancborage means 22, 122 for the lap strap 14, 114 such that its location relative to the anchorage means 22, 122 for the lap strap 14, 114 is not affected by opening of the door 26, 130 , characterised by puller means 30, 48, 68, 76, 100, 134 interconnecting a point on the safety belt with a point on the vehicle such that, when the door 26, 126 is opened the puller means applies a force to the shoulder strap 14, 114 thereby to displace the juncation 18, 118 between the lap, shoulder and common straps out of the plane containing the two anchorage means 22, 24 122, 324 and the guide means 28, 128 in a direction away from the seat 10, 110 . 2. A safety belt system according to claim 1, characterised in that the puller means 30, 48, 68, 76, 100, 134 is of constant length. 3. A safety belt system according to claim 1 or 2, characterised in that the inertia reel forms part of the anchorage 28, 128 for the common strap 20, 120 . 4. A safety belt system according to claim 1, 2 or 3, wherein the lap and shoulder straps 14, 16 are attached to the rear edge of the vehicle door 26 , characterised in that the puller means 30, 48, 68, 76, 100 is arranged to interconnect a point on the safety belt which is inboard of the seat when the door is closed and a point 32, 42, 66, 74, 98 on the vehicle in front of and above the knees of an occupant of the seat 10 . 5. A safety belt system according to claim ,characterised in that the puller means is connected to the vehicle at a fixed vocation 32 on the fascia immediately below the windscreen. 6. A safety belt system according to claim 4, characterised in that the puller means is connected to the vehicle by means of a slider 42, 66 mounted on a track 44, 62 which is fixed to the vehicle with the end nearer to the door 26 higher than the other end. 7. A safety belt system according to claim 4 characterised in that the puller means 100 is connected to an arm 92 which is mounted on the vehicle for movement about a transverse pivot axis 96 the end of which nearer to the door 26 is Jowerrthan the other end. 8. A safety belt system according to claim 1, 2 or 3, wherein the lap and shoulder elements 114 and 116 are anchored inboard of the seat 110 and the guide means 128 , together with the inertia reel, are mounted on the door 130 , characterised in that the puller means 134 interconnets the junction 118 between the lap, shoulder and common straps 114, 116, 120 and a runner 136 movable along a track 132 which extends forwardly from a point on the door 130 in proximity to the guide means 128 , so that, when the door 130 is shut, the puller means 134 does not obstruct the winding of the common strap 120 on to the inertia reel.

## Description
Passive Safety Belt System This invention relates to a passive safety belt system for a motor vehicle of the type in which the belt is moved away from the body of the user when the corresponding vehicle door is opened. It is an object of the present invention to provide a system of the foregoing type in which the power used to move the safety belt is derived from the opening and closing movement of the vehicle door. According to the invention, a motor vehicle has a front hinged door and an adjacent seat provided with a safety belt system comprising a shoulder, strap, a lap strap and a common strap interconnected to form a three point safety belt, the free ends of the shoulder, lap and common straps being connected to respective anchorage means, one of which incorporates an inertia ree3, the anchorage means for the lap strap and the common strap each being connected to a respective one of a first point on the door in proximity to the bottom rear corner thereof and a location on the vehicle inboard of and adjacent to the bottom of the back of the seat and the anchorage means for the shoulder strap being connected to a point ahove the anchorage means for the lap strap such that its location relative to the anchorage means for the lap strap is not affected by opening of the door, the safety belt system further comprising puller means interconnecting a point on the safety belt with a Doint on the vehicle such that, when the door is opened the puller means applies a force to the shoulder strap thereby to displace the junction between the lap, shoulder and common straps out of the plane containing the two anchorage means and the guide means in a direction away from the seat. Preferably the inertia reel forms part of the anchorage for the common strap and the puller means is of constant length. When the invention is applied to a safety belt system. of the type in which the lap and shoulder straps are attached to the rear edge of the door, the puller means may be arranged to interconnect a point on the safety belt which is inboard of the seat when the door is closed and a point on the vehicle in front of and above the knees of an occupant of the seat. In one form of the invention, the puller means comprises a flexible element made, for example, of webbing or cord. In another form of the invention, the puller means comprises a rigid element such as a rod which may be bent at an intermediate point along its length tofacilitate movement around the steering wheel of the vehicle. The point on the vehicle to which the puller means is connected may be a fixed location on the fascia immediately below the windscreen. Alternatively, the point may be movable, for example in the form of a slider mounted on a track, the end of which nearer to the door is higher than the other end, or the end of an arm mounted on a transverse pivot axis, the end of which nearer the door is lower than the other end. In a preferred form of the invention the lap and shoulder straps are formed as a single continuous length running freely through a guide member which is attached to the end of the common strap, and the puller means comprises a flexible element running freely through the guide member and attached tithe shoulder strap at a point spaced from the guide member. The guide member may comprise a ring which need not be circular. A ternatively, it may be a more complex component having separate apertures for the lap and shoulder straps and the pu ler member respectively. When the invention is applied to a safety belt system of the type in which the lap and shoulder elements are anchored inboard of the seat and the guide means, together with the inertia reel are mounted on the door, the puller means may interconnect the junction between the lap, shoulder and common straps and a runner movable along a track which extends forwardly from a point on the door in proximity to the guide means so that, when the door is shut, the puller means does not obstruct winding of the common strap onto the inertia reel. A system of this type is particularly suited for use in a sports car here it is not feasible to provide a safety belt anchorage near the top rear corner of the door. Preferably the track is in abutment with the door along its entire length, with its forward end in proximity to the bottom edge of the window in such door. Embodiments of the invention will now be described, by way of example, with reference to the accompanying drawings, in which Figures 1 and 2 are perspective views of the interior of a motor car in accordance with a first embodiment of the invention, with the door adjacent to the seat provided with the safety belt closed and open respectively Figures 3 and 4 are perspective views, corresponding toFigures 1 and 2, of a second embodiment of the invention Figures 5 and 6 are perspective views, corresponding toFigures 1 and 2,of a third embodiment of the invention Figures 7 and 8 are perspective views, corresponding toFigures 1 and 2, of a fourth embodiment of the invention Figures 9 and 10 are perspective views, illustrating two alternative forms of guide member for use with the embodiment shown in Figures 7 and 8 Figures 11 and 12 are perspective views, corresponding toFigures 1 and 2, of a fifth embodiment of the invention and Figures 13 and 14 are perspective views, corresponding toFigures 1 and 2, of a sixth embodiment of the invention. Figures 1 and 2 show the driver s seat 10 of a motor car 12 in accordance with the invention. A safety belt for the driver consists of a single length of webbing, forming the lap element 14 and the diagonal element 16 which runs freely through e flattened ring 18 connected to one end of another length of webbing fòrm ng the common element 20 of the safety belt. The free ends of the lap and diagonal elements 4 and 16 are connected to respective anchorages 22 and 24 near the bottom and top rear corners of the adjacent door 26 of the car. The free end of the common element 20 is connected to an inertia reel 28 mounted on the floor of the car on the inboard side of the seat 10 and adjacent to the back thereof. In accordance with the invention, a piece of webbing 30 is connected between a point on the common element 20 adjacent to the ring 38 and a point 32 in the centre of the fascia just below the windscreen. The length of the webbing 30 is chosen so that it hangs in a position so as not to obstruct access to the handbrake and gear lever not shown . When the car door 26 is closed, the safety belt comprising the elements 14, 16 and 20 is in a configuration to be used by the driver of the car 12 and is not affected by the piece of webbing 30. When the door 26 is opened the resulting pull on the lap and diagonal elements 14 and 16, particularly the latter, causes webbing to be,drawn off the reel 28. Initially the piece of webbing 30 bas no effect but, when it tightens, it pulls the ring 18 and the adjacent elements of the safety belt away from the body of the driver until, when the door 26 is fully open, the safety belt is in the configuration shown in Figure 2. A similar system may be provided for the front seat passenger. It will be appreciated that the choice of the length of the piece of webbing 30 is a compromise between not interferring with access to the handbrake and gear lever when the car door 26 is closed, which dictates that the length shall be as long as convenient, and maximising the extent to which the safety belt is pulled away from the body of the driver when the door 26 is open, which dictates that the length should preferably be no longer than the distance between the point 32 and the rim of the steering wheel 34. This compromise can be improved by replacing the fixed anchorage point 32 with a moveable anchorage point. Figures 3 and 4 illustrate an alternative arrangement in which a movable anchorage point is provided, as applied to a car 40. Those parts of the system which are equivalent to corresponding parts of the system shown in Figures 1 and 2 are denoted by the same reference numerals and will not be described in detail. The movable anchorage takes the form of a slider 42 mounted on a track member 44 which, together with a corresponding track member 46 of an equivalent system for the front passenger s seat not shown forms a V shape projecting rearwardly and downwardly from the fascia. The slider 42 is connected to a point on the common element 20 of the safety belt adjacent to thering 18 by a cranked rigid member 48 having a long limb 50 which, when the car door 26 is closed, as shown inFigure 3, extends substantially forwardly from the common element 20 and a short limb 52 which is attached to the slider 42. When the car door 26 is opened, webbing is pulled off the reel 28 as before. The cranked member 48 is lifted up by the safety belt and the slider 42 travels along the track 44 until the cranked member 48 abuts against the steering wheel 34.The cranked member 48 then pivots on the edge of the steering wheel 34, to bring the short limb 52 thereof to a more horizontal orientation with the result that the end of the long limb 50 which is attached to the safety belt is drawn forwardly towards the steering wheel. Thus the cranked configuration of the member 48 serves both to improve access to the handbrake and gear lever not shown and to increase the distance by which the safety belt is drawn away from the body of the driver. The rigid member 48 may be replaced by a piece of webbing or other flexible connecting material if desired. Similarly, a rigid member may be used with the system of Figures 1 and 2. Figures 5 and 6 illustrate a car 60 fitted with another system in accordance with the invention. Once again, those parts which are equivalents to parts of the system shown in Figures 1 and 2 are denoted by the same reference numerals and will not be described in detail. The V shaped track arrangement, 44, 46 of the system shown in Figures 3 and 4 is replaced by an X shaped track arrangement consisting of track members 62 and 64. The track member 62 carries a slider 66 which is connected by a piece of webbing 68 to the common element 20 of the safety belt adjacent to the ring 18. The track member 64 carries a slider not shown for a corresponding system for the front passenger seat. The operation of the system is similar to that of the system shown in Figures 3 and 4, the crossing track members 62 and 64 not interferring with the operation because the webbing 68 extends from the slider 66 approximately in the plane of the X shape. The webbing 68 may be replaced by a rigid member suitably shaped to avoid interferring with the track member 64. Figures 7, 8 and 9 illustrate a car 70 fitted with a further system in accordance with the invention. Piece again, those parts which are equivalent to corresponding parts of the system shown in Figures 1 and 2 are denoted by the same reference numerals and will not be described in detail. The V shaped track arrangement 44, 46 of the system shown in Figures 3 and 4 is replaced by a similar track arrangenent, consisting of two track members of which only the track member 72 is illustrated. The track member 72 is curved so that although its upper end region follows substantia ly the same path as that of the track member 44, its lower end region is displaced forwardly so as not to project as far back in the car towards the seats. The track member 72 carries a slider 74 which is connected to a piece of webbing 76. The piece of webbing 76 is threaded through the ring 18 and stitched to the diagonal element 16 at a point 80 Figure 9 which is spaced apart from the ring 18. When the door 26 is fully open, as shown in Figure 8, the piece of webbing 76 pulls some of the diagonal element 16 through the ring 18 so as to effectively increase the length of the lap element 14. This prevents the lap element 14 from pulling the ring 18 downwards, with the result that it is located substantially on a straight line between the slider 74 and the anchorage 24 at the top rear corner of the door 26 compareFigure 6 . Figure 9 shows the parts of the safety belt immediately adjacent to the ring in more detail, with the door in a half open position. It will be seen that the flexible element 76 is stitched to the side of the diagonal element 16 which faces the user s body so as to be appropriately positioned to run through the ring 18 without interferring with the co operation between the latter and the three elements 14, 16 and 20 of the safety belt when the door is closed. Figure 10 illustrates an alternative guide member 80 for connecting the three elements of the safety belt and the piece of webbing 76 for use in place of the ring 18. The guide member 80 consists of a ring having a cross bar 82 thereby providing three separate transverse elements round which the lap and diagonal elements 14 and 16, the common element 20 and the piece of webbing 76 can be led. This allows the piece of ebbing 76 to be stitched, at a point 84yon the opposite side to that of the user s body in use. Figures 11 and 12 illustrate a car 90 fitted with another system in accordance with the invention. Once again, those parts which are equivalent to corresponding parts of the system show inFigures 1 and 2 are denoted by the same reference numerals and will not be described in detail. The curved track members of the system shown in Figures 7 and 8 are replaced by cranked lever 92 which is pivotally mounted beneath the fascia 94 of the car 90. The fascia 94 is shown broken away and, as can be seen, the axle 96 on which the lever 92 is mounted extends generally transversely of the car 90 but its end nearer the door 26 is lower than its other end. The effect of this is that, as the lever 92 pivots upwardly from the position shown in Figure 11 to the position shown in Figure 12, its outer end 98 moves closer to the door 26. The free end 98 of the lever 92 is connected to the ring 18 by a piece of webbing 100, similar to the piece of webbing 96 of Figures 7 and 8.Preferably, the piece of webbing 100 extends through the ring 18 and is stitched to the diagonal element 16 at a point spaced apart from the ring 18, in a similar manner to that described with reference to Figures 9 and 10. When the door 26 is opened, the diagonal element 16 of the safety belt pulls on the piece of webbing 100 which in turn pulls on the free end 98 of the lever 92. Because of the downward slope of the axle 96, the piece of webbing 100 exerts a force on the lever 92 with a.sufficient component in a direction perpendicular to the axle 96 for the lever 92 to be lifted from the position shown inFigure 11 to the position shown in Figure 12. The cranked formation of the lever 92 enables it to perform this movement without being obstructed by the fascia 94. The free end 98 of the lever 92 thus follows a similar path to that of the slider 74 of Figures 7 and 8 but the system shown in Figures 11 and 12 has the advantage that it can be installed without requiring any modification of the fascia 94. The foregoing embodiments of the invention are not suitable for use in an open top sports car because, in the absence of a B post extending up to a cuntrail, it is not feasible to provide a safety belt anchorage in proximity to the top rear corner of the vehicle door.Figures 13 and 14 show the driver s seat 110 of a motor car 112 in accordance with the invention. A safety belt for the driver consists of a single length of webbing forming the lap element 114 and the diagonal element 116 which runs freely through a flattened ring 118 connected to one end of another length of webbing forming the common element 120 of the safety belt. The free ends of the lap and diagonal elements 114 and 116 are connected to respective anchorages 122 and 124. The anchorage 122 is mounted on the transmission tunnel of the vehicle while the anchorage 124 is mounted on a transverse bar 126 which extends across the vehicle immediately behind the seats. In a two seater sports car, this bar 126 may conveniently form the support for a parcels shelf not shown .The free end of the common element 120 is led through a guide 128 in proximity to the bottom rear corner of the adjacent door 130 on to an inertia reel not shown concealed behind the door trim panel. In accordance with the invention, a track 132 is mounted on the door 130 so as to extend between a point adjacent to the guide 128 diagonally, forwardly and upwardly towards the top front corner of the door. A piece of webbing 134 extends between the ring 118 and a runner 136 which is slidably mounted on the track 132.The connection between the piece of webbing 134 and the diagonal element 116 may be similar to that illustrated in Figure 9 orFigure 10. When the car door 130 is closed, the safety belt comprising the elements 114, 116 and 120 is in a configuration to be used by the driver of the car 12 and is not affected by the piece of webbing 13A. When the oor 130 is opened, the piece of webbing 134 pulls the slider 136 away from. the end of the track 132 adjacent to the guide 128 and, at the same time, lifts the elements 114, 116 and 320 away from the body of the driver, freeing him to 3eave his seat. The length of.the piece of webbing 134 is chosen to be such that, when the door 130 is fully opened, the diagonal element 116 and the piece of webbing 134 are in an approximately straight Zine between the anchorage 124 and the slider 136. As an alternative to providing the transverse bar 126, the back of the seat 110 may be reinforced sufficiently to permit the anchorage 124 to be attached directly to it.