# Copying apparatus.

## Abstract
A graphic engine in which a document reading array 3 and an array of marking elements 5 are supported on the same elongate support member 1 . The support member 1 is scanned in a direction 6 orthogonal to the direction 12 of the document to be read 15 and the record receiving member 15 . The support member 1 is preferably supported by E shaped resilient mounts 7 for axial oscillation to reduce the number of reading and marking elements required.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A graphic engine characterised by an elongate support member 1 having thereon an array of reading elements 3 and an array of marking elements 5 and means 13 for axially oscillating said support member 1 in spaced relationship to both a document to be copied 15, 37 and a record receiving member 11 and means 19, 23 for providing orthogonal relative movement between said support member 1 and both said document 15, 37 and said record receiving member 11 . 2. The graphic engine of claim 1 including means for advancing said support member 1 . 3. The graphic engine of claim 1 including means for advancing both said document 15 and said record receiving member 11 . 4. The graphic engine of any one of claims 1 to 3 wherein said marking elements 5 are drop on demand ink jets. 5. The graphic engine of any of claims 1 to 4 wherein said means for axially oscillating the support member 1 , includes a resilient mount 7 of E shape, the outer limbs of which are secured to a frame, and the central limb of which is secured to the support member.

## Description
GRAPHIC ENGINE This invention relates to a graphic engine, that is to say an apparatus capable of reading graphic information and of marking copy material in accordance with graphic information. Imaging systems are known in which an array of reading elements is used to read, for example, printed material, and in which an array of marking elements is used to print, for example, on paper copy material.Typically the array of elements is caused to scan in an oscillatory manner while the printed material or material to be printed is moved relative to the oscillating member. These systems can be used in copiers, printers, facsimile transceivers and for other uses. The graphic engine of this invention may also be used for those purposes but, for simplicity of understanding, will be described herein as an ink jet copier however, where appropriate, reference will be made to the other uses. Ink jet systems are known in which an array of ink jets is caused to scan reciprocally across a record receiving member to form images thereon. The invention as claimed is intended to provide a very economical and compact graphic engine having low power requirements, and is characterised by an elongate support member having thereon an array of reading elements and an array of marking elements and means for axially oscillating said support member in spaced relationship to both a document to be copied and a record receiving member and means for providing orthogonal relative movement between said support member and both said document and said record receiving member. The oscillating support member is preferably supported by resilient mounts that eliminate rolling, sliding or rubbing friction while allowing oscillation in an axial direction only. These mounts minimize the swing or pendulum effect, which would normally cause the oscillating member to move toward and away from a tangentially aligned fixed surface, such as a record receiving member, as will be explained further herein. The oscillating member can remain in one location with a document to be copied and a record receiving member advanced past it or the document and recordreceiving member can remain stationary, and the oscillating member advanced. Two ways of carrying out the invention are described below with reference to the drawings, in which Figure 1 is a perspective view of a simplified graphic engine in accordance with this invention, which shows the relationships of the various components. Figure 2 is a side sectional view of the graphic engine of Figure 1 showing in addition a document to be read and a document drive means. Figure 3 is a side view of a second simplified embodiment of the present invention in which the oscillating image reading and image forming support member is advanced, and the document to be read, here a page of a bound volume, and the record receiving member are held stationary. Referring now to Figure 1, there is shown a raster input scan raster output scan RIS ROS support member 1, which may be, for example, of a plastic material. Supported on RlS ROS support member 1 are scanning reading means represented here by circles 3, which may be, by way of example, photodetectors. Also supported on RIS ROS support member 1 are marking elements 5 see Figure 2 , which, in this exemplary instance, are drop ondemand ink jets. Conveniently, one marking element can be provided for each reading element however, this is not necessary. RIS ROS support member 1 is suspended for axial oscillatory movement in the directions shown by arrow 6 by nexure mounts 7, which act as multiple compounded cantilever springs. Each flexure mount is an E shaped leaf spring, with the ends of the outer limbs of the E secured to base 9, and with the end of the central limb secured to the support member 1.The nexure mounts 7 being relatively wide minimize sideways movement of support member 1. Further, since the whole nexure mount 7 is resilient not only does support member 1 pivot about the top edge 8 of flexure mount 7, but the top edge 8 of mount 7 pivots about the line of contact 10 between mount 7 and base 9. This double pivoting action keeps support member 1 in spaced relationship to record receiving member 11 and document to be read 15 see Figure 2 during its complete travel better than would result from a single pivot action. The hanging flexure type of mount used here also eliminates any rolling, sliding or rubbing friction that would be present in conventional apparatus. The stiffness of the flexure may also be increased by use of additional springs if desired. The apparatus is also relatively quiet in operation.Support member 1 is oscillated by oscillating means 13, which may be, for example, a solenoid. Solenoid 13 is also fixed to base 9. In addition to the oscillation of RIS ROS support member 1, it is necessary to provide relative movement between member 1 and the document to be read 15 see Figure 2 and or the record receiving member 11. The relative movement is at right angles, i.e., orthogonal, as shown by arrow 6, which represents the axial oscillation of RIS ROS support member 1 and arrow 12, which represents the motion of record receiving member 11. It should be noted that RIS ROS support member 1 scans rapidly in comparison with the velocity of movement of document 15 or record receiving member 11.Typical means for moving document to be read 15 and record receiving member 11 are shown in Figure 2. Referring now to Figure 2, which represents a simplified sidesectional view of Figure 1, document 15, which is to be read, is guided by leat spring fingers 17 into contact with drive guide roller means 19, which, when driven by motor 20, pulls document 15 across the reading path of photodetectors 3 through image reading station designated generally as 25. Document 15 and roller 19 are not shown in Figure 1 to simplify understanding of the construction of RIS ROS support member 1. Leaf spring fingers 21 are used to guide record receiving member 11, which may be, for example, paper, into contact with drive guide roller 23. Roller 23 driven by motor 24 guides and pulls record receiving member 11 through the image marking station designated generally as 27.Controller 29 is used to receive the input signal 31 from the photodetectors 3 and to produce an output signal 33 to ink jets 5Controller 29 is conveniently mounted on oscillating RIS ROS support member 1. Where the graphic engine is to be used as a copier, a document to be copied 15 and a copy sheet 11 are fed into the nip formed by leafspring fingers 17 and drive roller 19 and leaf spring fingers 21 and drive roller 23, respectively. Solenoid 13 is activated causing RIS ROS support member 1 to oscillate axially a distance approximately equal to the distance between photodetectors 3 to ensure that all areas of document 15 are read or scanned by photodetectors 3. Drive roller motors 20 and 24 are activated causing rotation of rollers 19 and 23 in such manner that document 15 and recordreceiving member 11 are advanced at about the same speed in synchronization. The document 15 and copy 11 may be advanced either stepwise or continuously.As document 15 is advanced, it is scanned by photodetectors 3, which send signals 31 to controller 29. Controller 29 in response to input signals 31 provides output signals 33, which trigger the appropriate ink jets 5. In this manner, a copy is formed on sheet 11 corresponding to the document 15. Since, according to this invention, the photodetector array 3 and the ink jet marker array 5 are integrally arranged on the same carriage 1, they execute the same motion relative to the copy 11 document 15. Each mark corresponds to a true optical density at its location. However, if the orthogonal motion is constant speed, the locations fall along sine waves and typically would not form a rectangular grid. In the copying mode, regularity of dot placement may well suffice, and rectangularity of dot placement patterns may not be required. In this event, constant paper 11 document 15 speed may be used. Since corresponding phase points in each sine wave are equally spaced by an integral number of wavelengths, then if the wavelength of the sine wave is made equal to the desired vertical spacing of dots, then dots for any column, which are placed at the same phase point, will be equally spaced from their adjacent dots in the same column. This is most easily done by placing dots only during one direction of dot transport motion. The cost, however, is in jet duty factor.The jets are off during every return half cycle. Duty factor may be restored, however, if the oscillation frequency is doubled and if dots are placed only in alternate columns during each direction of jet transport motion. This corresponds to a horizontal interlace of dots during each half cycle of bar 1 oscillation Where the graphic engine of this invention is to be used as a facsimile transmitter, read signals 31 are sent by controller 29 in an appropriate form represented by signal 32 to a remote transceiver or printer. Similarly, where the graphic engine of this invention is to be used as a facsimile receiver, a signal 34 received from a remote transmitter, such as another facsimile transceiver, is used to produce signal 33 to control marking elements 5.Where it is desired to use the graphic engine as a printer, obviously signal 34 may be provided from any number of sources including computers and electronic word processors. It can be seen that the apparatus as described can be made relatively inexpensively, can be made compact and has a very low power consumption.The source of ink not shown may be located externally to the RIS ROS support member 1 and connected by one or more flexible tubes not shown to ink jets 5. Similarly, the power source to the photocells and the controller is not shown but would be connected by fine wires. Referring now to Figure 3, there is shown an apparatus for copying from, for examp e, bound volumes in which the RIS ROS support member is not only oscillated but is advanced both past the material to be copied and the record receiving member 11. RIS ROS support member 1, photodetectors 3, ink jets 5 and controller 29 are suspended and used as described in reference to Figures and 2. Here, however, a platen 35 is provided for supporting bound volume 37. In operation RlS ROS support member 1 is advanced by cables 34 and 36 wound on drive motors 40 and 41, respectively, which pull support member 1 in either direction as indicated by arrow 39 while photodetectors 3 scan bound volume 37. Ink jets 5 form an image on stationary recordreceiving member 11.This apparatus eliminates the requirement for advancing document 15 and copy 11 at the same speed in registration however, the apparatus is more complex in that obviously the mechanism required to advanceRIS ROS support member 1 is more complicated than the mechanism required to advance two sheets of, for example, paper. The width of the arrays of photodetectors 3 and ink jets 5 is conveniently about the same width as the document desired to be copied. Relative motion between the marking jets 5 and detectors 3 and the copy 11 document 15 has been described as two dimensional. The higher speed motion is sinusoidal along the array bar 1 axis while lower speed motion in direction 12 is orthogonal to that axis. If the orthogonal motion is constant speed, then the loci of marked scanned points will be sine waves. If the second motion is intermittent, instantaneous, and if it occurs during each reversal of the first motion, then the loci of marked points will form square waves.If the intermittent motion is generated by a stepper motor 20, 24, and if the jets 5 and detectors 3 are interrupted during the stepping motion, then the loci of marked scanned points are straight line segments parallel to the array axis. If the amplitude oscillation is great enough, the straight line segments generated by adjacent jets 5 and detectors 3 during their active periods form continuous straight raster scan lines across an entire page. Although the above disclosure was directed to the use of ink jet marking, obviously marking elements 5 could be, for example, magnetic, electrostatic, thermal printers or other means in which case record receiving member 11 would be of a suitable compatible material for example, heat sensitive paper would be used if thermal printing were utilized. Ink jet printing is preferred, however, because it is a non contact technology with its inherent advantages and has relatively low power requirements. Although specific components have been disclosed herein, many modifications and variations will occur to those skilled in the art. Such modifications and variations are intended to be included within the scope of the appended claims. For example, the reading elements could be charge couple devices, thin film deposits, magnetic pickups and other well known devices.