# An improved aluminium bronze alloy.

## Abstract
An aluminium bronze alloy for forming products in which the wear resistance property of the alloy is of importance, the alloy including within the matrix thereof intermetallic parti cles of a metal silicide such as chromium or manganese sili cide which take the form of asperities at the free surface of the alloy and protrude therefrom to structually reinforce the alloys aluminium oxide film.

## Claims
Claims. 1. An aluminium bronze alloy comprising by weight 6 to 15 aluminium and including within the matrix thereof intermetallic particles of metal silicide for increasing the wear resistance of the alloy. 2. An aluminium bronze alloy according to Claim 1, wherein the intermetallic particles of metal silicide have a greater hardness than the matrix of the alloy and form asperities at the free surface thereof. 3. An aluminium bronze alloy according to Claim 2, wherein the asperities of metal silicide which protrude from the free surface of the alloy structurally reinforce the alloys aluminium oxide film at said free surface. 4. An aluminium bronze alloy according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the intermetallic particles are formed substantially of chromium silicide. 5. An aluminium bronze alloy according to any one of Claims 1 to 3, wherein the intermetallic particles are formed substantially of manganese silicide. 6. An aluminium bronze alloy according to any one of Claims 1 to 3, wherein the intermetallic particles are formed substantially of.iron silicide. 7. An aluminium bronze alloy according to any one of the preceding vlaims, comprising by weight 6 to 15 aluminium, 0.1 to Q,30 o silicon and 0.1 to 0.4 chromium or 0.1 to 5 manganese or a combination thereof. 8. An aluminium bronze alloy according to Claim 7, comprising by weight 10.1 aluminium, 0.25 silicon, 0.1 chromium, and 1.5 iron or equivalent iron content, the balance being copper and the usual impurities. 9. An aluminium bronze alloy according to Claim 7, comprising by weight 10.5 aluminium, 0.2 to 0.3 silicon, 0.2 to 0.3 chromium, 1 manganese, up to 1.5 iron, and up to 0.5 nickel, the balance being copper and the usual impurities. 10. An aluminium bronze alloy comprising by weight 6 to 15 aluminium and including chromium and silicon wherein the silicon content is equal to or geater than the chromium content. 11. An aluminium bronze alloy according to Claim 10, wherein the chromium content of the alloy comprises by weight 0.1 to 0.4 chromium. 12. An aluminium bronze alloy for forming gears and other power transmission products comprising by weight o to 11 aluminium, 0.4 chromium, 0.25 silicon and up to 2.00 manganese, the balance being copper and the usual impurities. 13. An aluminium bronze alloy for forming slides support plates guides and forming rolls and equipment used in the processing of metals comprising by weight 11.5 to 12. 5 aluminium, 0.4 chromium, 0.25 silicon, and up to 2.0z ó manganese, the balance being copper and the usual impurities. 14. An aluminium bronze alloy for forming press tool inserts and forming dies comprising by. weight 14 aluminium, 0.4 chromium, 0.29 silicon, and up to 2.00 manganese, the balance being copper and the usual impurities. 15. An aluminium bronze alloy according to any one of Claims 12, 13, or 14, wherein the alloy contains up to 1.5 iron and the silicon content is equal to or greater than the chromium content.

## Description
An improved aluminium bronze alloy1 This invention relates to aluminium bronze alloys and more particularly, but not exclusively, to aluminium bronze alloys which are utilised to form products in which the wear resistance properties of the alloys are of importance. It is already known that certain aluminium bronze alloys have good wear resistance properties and such alloys have been used to form products such as bearings, gears and press tools. The useful life of such products is largely dependent upon, and is limited by, the wear resistance properties of the alloys from which they are formed, and the object of this invention is to provide an aluminium bronze alloy in which said properties of wear resistance are improved. According to one aspect of this invention, an aluminium bronze alloy comprises by weight 6 to 15 aluminium and includes within the matrix thereof intermetallic particles of metal silicide for increasing the. wear resistance of the alloy. Preferably, the intermetallic particles of metal silicide have a greater hardness than the matrix of the alloy and form asperities at the free surface thereof. Preferably, also, the asperities of metal silicide which protrude from the free surface of the alloy, structurally reinforce the alloys aluminium oxide film at said free surface. The intermetallic particles are, preferably, formed substantially of chromium silicide or, alternatively, the particles may be formed substantially of manganese silicide. As a further e ternative, the intermetallic particles may be formed substantially of iron silicide. Preferably, the aluminium bronze alloy comprises by weight 6 to 15 aluminium, 0.1 to 0.3 silicon and 0.1 too.4 chromium or 0.1 to 5 manganese or a combination thereof. The aluminium bronze alloy, preferably, comprises by weight 10.3 aluminium, 0.25 silicon, 0.1 chromillm, 1. 5 iron or equivalent iron content, the balance being copper and the usual impurities. Alternatively, the aluminium bronze alloy may comprise by weight 10.5 aluminium, 0.2 to 0.3 silicon, 0.2 to 0.3 chromium, 1 manganese, up to 1,5 iron, up to 0.5 nickel, the balance being copper and the usual impurities. According to another aspect of this invention, an aluminium bronze alloy comprises by weight 6 to 15 aluminium and includes chromium and silicon wherein the silicon content is equal to or greater than the chromium content. Preferably, the chromium content of the alloy comprises by weight 0.1 to 0.4 chromium. According to a further aspect of this invention, an aluminium bronze alloy for forming gears and other power transmission products comprises by weight 9 to 11 aluminium, 0.4 chromium, 0.25 silicon and up to 2 manganese, the balance being copper and the usual impurities. According to yet another aspect of this invention, an aluminium bronze alloy for forming slides support plates guides, rolls and equipment used in the processing of metals comprises by weight 11,9 o to 12.X o aluminium, 0.450 chromium, 0.29 silicon, and up to 2.00 manganese, the balance being copper and the usual 6 impurities. In yet a further aspect of this invention, an aluminium bronze alloy for forming press tool inserts and dies comprises by weight 14 aluminium, .0.4 chromium, 0,250 osilicon, and up to 2,00b o manganese, the balance being copper and the usual impurities. Preferably, in the alloys according to said further aspect of this invention, to said yet another aspect of this invention, and to said yet a further aspect of this invention, the alloy contains up to 1.5 iron and the silicon content is equal to or.greater than the chromium content. This invention will now be described with reference to specific examples of aluminium bronze alloys, but it will be apparent that this invention is generally concerned with obtaining improved wear resistance properties of the entire range of aluminium bronze alloy comprising by weight 6 k to 15 aluminium. In such aluminium bronze alloys, it is well known that during relative movement of interacting surfaces, the rate of wear is dependent upon a number of factors including, for example, the co efficient of friction between the mating surfaces and the type of lubrication provided therebetween. However, it is also considered that the shearing of the aluminium oxide film on an aluminium bronze alloy surface is at least in part responsible for the deterioration of the wearing surface particularly, as this leads to the formation of abrasive debris which creates further wearing of the surface.Consequently, it is envisaged that any improvement which can be obtained in the stability of this aluminium oxide film will increase the wear resistance properties of suckiÅaluminium bronze alloys. Tribology tests, i.e. wear resistance tests, involving relative movement of interacting surfaces of specific alloys under controlled conditions of loading and lubrication were carried out on a standard aluminium bronze alloy consisting by weight of 10.5 aluminium and 4 iron, the balance being copper and the usual impurities and the weight loss of the test specimen was determined. An identical tribology test was then carried out on a first test aluminium bronze alloy which contained additions of chromium and silicon but had compatible properties such as, for example, hardness, to the standard alloy. This first test aluminium bronze alloy consisted by weight of 10.1 aluminium, 1.5 iron or equivalent iron content, 0.1 chromium, and 0.25 silicon, the balance being copper and the usual impurities.The results of the tribology tests showed that the wear resistance of this first test aluminium bronze alloy was four times greater than the standard aluminium bronze alloy. Similar tests on a second test aluminium bronze alloy consisting by weight of 10.5 aluminium, O. 2 to 0.3 chromium 0.2 to 0.3 silicon, 1 manganese, up to 1.5 iron and up to 0.5 nickel, the balance being copper and the usual impuritiesnalso showed that this alloy had improved wear resistance over the standard aluminium bronze alloy. Additional tests indicate that these improved wear resistance properties are obtained over the entire range of aluminium bronze alloys by adding silicon in the range 0.1 to 0.3 by weight, chromium in the range 0.1 to 0.4 by weigh , and manganese in the range 0.1 to 0.54 0 by weight. Furthermore, it is also found to be beneficial for the silicon content of the alloy to be equal to or greater than the chromium content of the alloy, particularly, where the alloy contains iron. These additions of chromium, silicon and manganese to the liquid aluminium copper alloy result in the format ion of a number of intermetallic compounds which may exist separately or be a combination of the following compounds MnA16, MnA14, MnAl1, Mn3, Al10, Mn4, Al11, MnAl3, MnCr Al12, MnSi 2 Al6, CrSi2, CrSi, Cr Si Cr3 Si, NnSi2 MnSi, Mn5Si3, Mn3Si, CrAl7, Cr2A111, Cr5Al8, Cr2Al, CrAl , CrAl3, and Cr2Al. When the surface of an aluminium bronze alloy is moved relatively to an interacting surface and load is applied thereto, wear of the surface of the aluminium bronze alloy takes place and is due in part to the shearing of the aluminium oxide film on the aluminium bronze alloy. This shearing of the aluminium oxide film causes deterioration of the wearing surface and this leads to the formation of abrasive debris which creates further wearing of the surface. The aluminium bronze alloys referred to abovepwhich are the subject of this invention, have been shown to maintain a considerably more stable oxide film and the stability of the oxide film is considered to be due to the reinforcement of the oxide film by intermetallic particles formed substantially of chromium silicide and or manganese silicide. It has also been found that in alloys containing iron, iron is present in these complex silicides and therefore in such a case, the silicides are formed of various percentages of chromium, manganese and iron. Examination of test specimens of the aluminium bronze alloys shows that the intermetallic particles are small, are uniformly distributed throughout the matrix of the alloy and are very much harder than the matrix. Furthermore, the intermetallic particles protrude from the free surface of the alloy in the form of minute asperities which are better able to sustain load supplied thereto than the normal aluminium bxide film. As these asperities are much harder than the matrix, they offer considerable resistance to shear and readily form oxide layers so as to resist welding to the mating surface under conditions of boundary lubrication. These aluminium bronze alloys are most suitably prepared by melting the correct proportions of aluminium and copper in a coreless induction furnace and adding thereto manganese, silicon and chromium in that order to the high temperature liquid. The liquid having these additions is then mixed mechanically and is then poured without any undue delay. It has been found that such alloys are not sensitive to small proportions of impurities with the exception of lead, arsenic and bismuth and conveniently may contain up to 0.5to iron, zinc, tin, vanadium, titanium, molybdenum, nickel, cobalt and tungsten. Where the alloys are to be manufactured in oil fired furnaces, it has been found to be beneficial for the higher melting point constituents to be added as master alloys of copper. It is also envisaged that in aluminium bronze alloys containing by weight up to 12 aluminium, the distribution and size of the intermetallic particles can be modified by utilising various forms of heat treatment such as a solution treatment, and precipitation or age hardening.In addition, it has also been found that the additions of chromium silicon and manganese do not impair the already good corrosion resistance properties of aluminium bronze alloys and the improved wear resistance of the aluminium bronze alloys containing chromium silicon and manganese are still retained when the alloy is applied as a weld deposit. It is apparent that the aluminium bronze alloys according to this invention can be produced in a cast or wrought condition thereby facilitating economic production of various forms of components. It is considered that such aluminium bronze alloys having an aluminium content in the range of 6 to 11 o by weight aluminium, and a hardness in the range of 180 to 280 Vickers pyramid number would be suitable, due to their increased wear resistance for the formation of gears of various types, particularly, worm wheels and other power transmission products. One particularly suitable aluminium bronze alloy for the formation of such products comprises by weight 9 to 11 aluminium, 0.4 chromium, 0.2it silicon, and up to 2.009 manganese, the balance being copper and the usual impurities. It is also envisaged that where such aluminium bronze alloys have an aluminium content in the range of 11 to 15 by weight and a hardness in the range of 250 to 350 Vickers pyramid number, the alloy will be particularly useful for forming components such as slides, and support plates of machine tools, and guides and forming rolls and similar equipment used in the processing of other metals where an important criterion is the wear resistance of such products. It is considered that an aluminium bronze alloy comprising by weight 11.5 to 12.so aluminium, 0.4 chromium, 0.2it silicon, and up to 2,009 p manganese, the balance being copper and the usual impurities, would be particularly suitable for the production of such products. Furthermore, in aluminium bronze alloys having an aluminium content in the range of 11 to 15neo by weight, and a hardness in the range of 300 to 450 Vickers pyramid number, it is considered that such alloys would be suitable for the production of press tool inserts and forming dies where the hardness and wear resistance thereof are predominant requirements so that such products will maintain their profile without causing damage to the components being formed thereby. It is envisaged that one particularly suitable aluminium bronze alloy for forming such products would comprise by weight 14pro aluminium, 0.4 chromium, 0.25 silicon, and up to 2.0 manganese, the balance being copper and the usual impurities. In the alloys previously described which are suitable for forming gears, worm wheels, other power transmission products, slides, support plates of machine tools, guides and forming rolls, press tool inserts and dies, it is found that such alloys can usefully contain up to 1,50 0 iron. Where such an iron content is included in the alloy it is then desirable to increase the silicon content so that the silicon content is equal to or greater than the chromium content.