# In mold coating compositions and a method for making coated molded articles.

## Abstract
An in mold coating composition includes a polyurethane polyacrylate or polymethacrylate which is a reaction product, substantially free of unreacted NCO radicals, of an organic di isocyanate, a hydroxy alkyl acrylate or methacrylate and an or ganic diol in combination with copolymerizable alpha , beta ethylenically unsaturated monomer. The coating composition also contains initiators for addition polymerization and fillers possibly including inert particulate fillers, pigments, and may contain mold release agents. The coating composition is ap plied in a matched metal mold after a fiber reinforced thermos et plastic article has been shaped within the mold. The coating composition is applied by opening the mold and introducing the coating composition, thereafter closing the mold and re taining the mold in the closed condition until the plastic article is further cured and the coating composition is cured.

## Claims
TITLE In mold coating compositions and a method for making coated molded articles CLAIMS 1. An in mold coating composition comprising A. a polyurethane polyacrylate or polymethacrylate which is the reaction product, substantially free of unreacted TCO radicals of 1 an organic diisocyanate 2 a hydroxy alkyl acrylate or nethacrulGte 3 an organic diol, selected from alkylene diols, alkylene diol esters and polyesters alkylene diol ethers and polyethers B. copolymerizable alrha , beta ethylenically unsaturated monomer C. an initiator for addition polymerization 3. fillers 2. A composition as claimed in claim 1 wherein the molar ration of said organic diol to said hydroxy alkyl acrylate or methacrylate is 0.15 to 0.5 and the amount of said organic diisocyanate is sufficient to develop a iCC OII ratio of C.9 to 1.0 in the composition. 3. A composition as claimed in claim 1 or 2 wherein the said organic diisocyanate is toluene diisocyanate. 4. h composition as claimed in claim 1, 2 or 3 wherein the said organic diol is difunctional polyester of adipic acid and diethylene glycol. 5. Acompositionasclaimed in claim 1, 2 or 3 wherein the s id organic diol is polypropylene glycol. . 7 ccmrosition as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 5 wherein 0.075 to .0 parts by weight of the sid polyuret ane polyacrylate are provided for each part by weight of the said ethylenically unsaturated copolymerizable monomer. 7. A method for producing a coated, molded, fiber reinforced thermoset plastics article comprising producing a fiber reinforced, thermoset plastic article in a matched metal mold opening the said mold after the article has attained its intended shape introducing into the open mold a composition as claimed in my one of claims 5 to 6 closing the mold and thereby spreading the said composition over at least one surface of the said article retaining the mold in the closed comdition at a molding temperature until the said article is further cured and the said composition is cured openn the mold and recovering a molded, fiberreinforced thermoset plastic article having an adherent coating over at least one surface thereof. 8. A method as claimed in claim 7 wherein said fiberreinforced thermoset plastics material is made from a composition comprising A. an unsaturated polyester resin B. a copolymerizable monomer for the unsaturated polyester resn 5. fillers D. a catalyst for the condensation pol n ierization of the ursaturated polyester resin with the copolymerizable monomer E. a mold release agent and F. glass fiber reinforcing material. 9. A molded article produced by a method as claimed in claim 7 to 8.

## Description
gIgIE In mold coating compositions and a method for making coated molded articles DLSCRIPTION This invention concerns in mold coating compositions and a method of producing thermoset fiber reinforced molded articles having in mold applied coatings. Fiber reinforced, thermosetting resinous products are produced in elevated temperature, matched metal molds.One of the shortcomings of this process is that the molded article surface tend to be irregular and tends to have surface exposure of the reinforcing fibers, usually glass fibers. The in mold coating technique has been developed to improve the quality of the surface of a molded article after the curing of the article in a matched metal mold has been substantially advanced, see U.S. patent 4,0nz1,578. In the matched metal molding process, two or more shaped mold elements cooperate to define a mold cavity. A molding composition polymerizable thermosetting resin and fibrous reinforcing material and usually fillers, catalysts, mold release agents, and other reagents is introduced into a mold cavity between the matched metal mold surfaces. The shaped mold elements are bought together to spread the molding composition t rouftout the mold cavity and to confine the molding composition until curing is essentially completed. The heated mold elements initiate polymerization.When the polymerization is well advanced, i.e., tl e article has assured tle shape of the mold cavity, the mold s rf cos are separated slightly, usually a distance from 3 to 40 mils, and a liquid, in mold, coating composition is injected under pressure into the mold cavity. Thereafter the mold elements are again brought together under pressure which causes the liquid coating composition to disperse over the surface of the partiallycured article and to conform with the surface of the contiguous mold element. after a suitable time, the polymerization of the article is essentially completed and the polymerization of the coating composition is essentially completed.At that time the mold elements are separated and the coated, molded article is removed. Two component in mold coating compositions are mown, for example from U.S. patent 4,081,5 8, which employ polyisocyanates as one ingredient and hydroxy terminated high molecular weight unsaturated polyester resin as another ingredient. These compositions have limited pot life after being mixed and must be used promptly. These compositions have exhibited some inadequate adhesive properties. There is a demonstrated need for a single component coating composition which can be prepared and retained for extended periods of time by the molding operator. According to the present invention, an in mold coating composition is provided for thermoset fiber reinforced plastic molded articles. The composition includes a polyurethane polyacrylate or polymethacrylate and copolymerizable ethrlenically unsaturated monomer along with a polymerization initiator and fillers which may include inert particulate fil ers, pigments, mold release agents. The polyurethane polyacrylate or poly methacrylate is a reaction product, substantially free of unreacted NCO radicals of 1. an organic diisocyanate 2. a hydroxy alkyl acrylate or methacrylate 3. an organic diol. he polyurethane polyacrylate or polymethacrylate preferably constitutes from 0.075 to 5.0 parts by weight for each part by weight of the ethylenically unsaturated copol merizable monomer. The polyurethane polyacrylate or polymethacrylate may be an oligomer which can be prepared by combining an organic diisocyanate, a hydroxy alkyl acrylate or methacrylate and an organic diol. preferred organic diisocyanate is toluene diisocyanate TDI . The readily available mixture of the 2,4 and 2, 6 isomers of TDI is useful. Other organic diisocyanates include isophorone diisocyanate, polymethylene polyphenyl diisocyanate. In general a mixture of polyisocyanates and monoisocyanates having an ISiCC equivalent of 1.8 to 2.2 is useful and can be categorized as a diisocyanate for the present purposes. In general these materials include hydroruz ethyl acrylate or methacrylate, hydroxy propyl acrylate or methacrylate, hydroxy butyl acrylate or methacrylate, a hydroxyl group preferably being attached to the beta carbon of the alkyl radical. The alkyl radical may contain up to 8 carbon atoms. The follozsing structural formula describes useful hydroxy alkyl acrylates and methacrylates EMI4.1 wherein R E or CH3 and n an integer from 2 to 8. An organic diol is employed as the core of the oligomer which comprises the polyurethane polyacrylate or methacrylate. The proportion of organic diol in the polyurethane polyacrylate influences the size of each oligomer. Useful organic diols include alkylene diols such as ethylene glycol, propylene glycol, diethylene glycol, dipropylene glycol, polyethylene glycol, polypropylene glycol, hydroxy alkyl ethers of butane diol and the like diester diols such as the diester reaction product of dicarboxylic acid or anhydride and an organic diol as already described, for example, a diester of adipic acid and diethylene glycol is a useful organic diol or the present purposes. Alylene oxide adducts of diester diols may be employed. Vrom 0.15 to 0.5 mols of the organic diol are supplied for each mol of the hydroxy alkyl acrylate or methacrylate.The organic diisocyanate is supplied such that the NCO W ration in the system is 0.9 to 1.0. The polyurethane polyacrylate or methacrylate is formed by combining the organic diol, the organic diisocyanate and the hydroxy alkyl acrylate or mehtacrylate in the presence of a suitable catalyst for the reaction of radicals with hydroxy radicals, for example, a tin catalyst. A preferred procedure is to combine tle organic diisocyanete with the hydroxy alkyl acrylate or methacrylate to produce a urethane product having an acrylic or methacrylic radical and an unreacted NCO radical. That monoisocyanate is then combined with the organic diol at about OOC until substantially ll of the NCO radicals are reacted.The resulting oligomer is dissolved in a suitalbe ethylenically unsaturated copolymerizable monomer to reduce the viscosity of the mixture to a useful level. In general the polyurethane polyacrylate will comprise from 7 to 90 percent by weight of the resinous ingredients of the coating composition and the copolymerizable ethylenically unsaturated monomer will comprise from 93 to 10 percent of the resinous ingredients of the coating composition . Thus the polyurethane polyacrylate constitutes from 0.075 to 5.0 parts by weight for each part by weight of the ethylenically unsaturated copolymerizable monomer. Copolymerizable monomers include styrene, alpha methyl styrene, divinyl benzene, vinyl toluene, diallyl phthalate, acrylate or methacrylate esters such as ethyl acrylate, methyl acrylate, propyl acrylate, butyl acrylate, hexyl acrylate and the corresponding nethacrglaes ethylene glycol diacrylate, ethylene glycol dimethacrylate, acrylic and methacrylic esters of diepoxides such as the acrylic or methacrylic diester of the diglycidyl ether of bisphenolw e in mold coating composition may contain inhibitors and stabilizers to retard premature polvmerization of the composition in the manner well known in the molding composition arts. A catalyst for the reaction of radicals and C radicals also is included, preferably a tin catalyst such as dibutyl tin dilaurate or stannous octoate. Mold release agents such as zinc stearate are included in the composition. Inert particulate fillers and opacifiers may be added along with pigments if desired. An initiator for addition polymerization of te acrylates and copolymerizable monomers is included, e.g., organic peroxide initiators. The molded articles customarily are fabricated from unsaturated polyester resin compositions which include A. an unsaturated polyester resin usually formed by polyesterification of organic polyols and organic polycarboxylic acids, at least a portion of which includes ethylenically unsaturated polycarboxylic acid B. copolymerizable monomer for the unsaturated polyester resin, usually styrene C. fillers, including particulate inert fillers, D. catalyst for the condensation polymerization of the unsaturated polyester resin with the copoly merizable monomer E. mold release agents B. glass fiber reinforcing materials. he molding composition is introduced into a matched metal mold at temperatures usually in the range of 3000. he mold is closed and the molding composition is allowed to polymerize and assume the shape o the interior of the mold. After the molded article has at least partially polynerized and assumed the shape of the interior of the mold, the old is opened and an in mold coatln composition is introduced. Thereafter the mold is closed once more csin the coating composition to spread over at least one surface of the molded article. The mold is retained in a closed position for a sufficient period to allow the molded article th complete further curing and to allow the coating composition to be cured as an adherent coating over at least one surface of the molded article. Thereafter the mold is opened and the thermoset glass fiber reinforced plastic molded article is recovered having a cured, adherent coating of the present coating composition over at least one surface thereof. The invention will now be further described by means of the following examples Example 1. To prepare a polyurethane polyacrylate, the following ingredients were combined in a reactor 1 mol toluene diisocyanate, a mixture of the 2, 4 and 2, 6 isomers 1 mol hydroxy ethyl methacrylate 1 2 mol of a difunctional polyester formed by reaction of adiptic acid and dicthylene glycol, said polyester having a low acid number and having a hydroxyl number from 200 to 210 dibutyl tin dilaurate catalyst, 1 3 percent by weight of toluene diisocyanate 500 p.p.r. a stabilizer 200 p.p.m. an inhibitor. Initially the toluene diisocyanate was combined with the hydroxy methyl methacrylate in the presence of the tin catalyst at about 65 C. Thereafter the polyester was added slowly to the reaction kettle at about 800 C until substantially all of the NC0 radicals had been reacted. . in in mold coating composition was prepared from 70 parts by weight of the described polyurethane polyacrylate resin and 30 parts by weight styrene. This resinous mixture was combined with zinc stearate as a mold release agent, calcium carbonate filler, pigment tastes and t butyl perbenzoate catalyst. The resulting mixture exhibited good shelf life in the absence of a catalyst and exhibited good catalyzed pot life after the catalyst was added. An in mold coated article was prepared in a mold comprising a 14 x 14 flat sheet of glass fiber reinforced polyester, 1 8 thick. The coating composition was introduced into the open mold in a sufficient quantity to provide a coating 3 mils thick. The mold was retained at 300 0F for 2 minutes. The resulting product had a coating exhibiting pencil hardness 11 Gardner gloss 35 600 angle adhesion good color uniform. Example 2. A polyurethane polyacrylate was prepared by combining, as described in Sxamplr 1, the followin in redients 1 mol toluene diisocyanate, a mixture of , 4 and 2, G isomers 1 mol hydroxy ethyl acrylate 0.5 mol polypropylene glycol, 1000 molecular weight. 70 parts by weight of the resulting polyurethane polyacrylate were mixed with 30 parts by weight styrene. The resulting styrene solution of polyurethane polyacrylate was combined with a dimethacrylate ester of the diglycidyl ether of bisphenol in a styrene solution. The resulting mixture contained 1 part by weight of the styrene solution and 1 part by weight of the dimethacrylate ester of the diglycidyl ether of bisphenol A in 30 percent styrene. This resinous mixture was combined with catalysts and fillers and applied as a coating to the s nme 14 x molded article described in Example 1 at 3000 for 2 minutes. The resulting coated article had hardness F a gloss of 42 600 angle adhesion excellant