# Glassware washing apparatus.

## Abstract
A glass washing machine 10 includes a circular glass rack 74 supported for rotation and divided into three sepa rate sections by partitions 90a, 90b, 90c . The rack 74 may be turned to move each section successively from a glass load ing station to a wash compartment wherein the glasses are washed and rinsed, and finally to an unloading station which is accessible for removal of the clean glasses. The bottom and side edges of the partitions 90a, 90b, 90c bounding the wash compartment are sealed to a housing 12 of the machine by seal strips 136 . Sealing curtains 144, 146 seal the top por tions of the partitions on their surfaces which face into the wash compartment.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. Glassware washing apparatus comprising a housing 12 presenting a loading zone for receiving dirty glassware, a washing zone for washing and rinsing the glassware and an unloading zone for unloading of clean glassware an opening in the housing providing access to the loading and unloading zones a rack 74 mounted in the housing for rotation about a generally vertical axis, the rack being adapted to receive and support glassware thereon a plurality of partitions 9ova, 90b 90c carried on the rack for rotation therewithand dividing the rack into a plurality of separate compartments each of which moves among the loading, washing and unloading zones upon rotation of the rack and means 46 for washing the glassware disposed on the rack in the compartment positioned in the washing zone, and means 46, 170 for subsequently rinsing the glassware disposed on the rack in the compartment positioned in the washing zone whereby dirty glassware can be loaded into one of the compartments at the loading zone, then rotated with the one compartment into the washing zone for washing and rinsing therein and then rotated with the one compartment into the unloading zone for unloading. 2. Apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the rack 74 is generally circular and the partitions 90a, 90b, 90c are oriented at substantially 1200 relatively to one another, whereby the compartments are substantially equal in size. 3. Apparatus according to claim 1 or claim 2, wherein the rinsing means includes a generally vertical conduit 170 extending in the washing zone and having a plurality of vertically spaced outlets 172 for discharging rinse water from the pipe onto the glassware, whereby material is rinsed off of the outside surfaces of tile bottoms of the individual glassware articles when the glassware articles are in inverted positions on the rack. 4. Apparatus according to any one of the preceding claims, including a removable hood 96 supported on the housing at a location to cooperate therewith in a manner to enclose the washing zone. 5. Apparatus according to claim 4, including an upper edge of the housing on which the hood is supported, the upper edge having a flange 106 thereon extending inwardly and downwardly into the washing zone and a lower edge of the hood having a flange 110 thereon extending inwardly and downwardly into the washing zone and overlying the flange of the upper edge to support the hood on the housing. 6. Apparatus according to claim 5, wherein the lower edge of the hood overlaps the upper edge of the housing outwardly thereof. 7. Apparatus according to any one of the preceding claims, including a basin 26 in the housing underlying the washing zone and having a bottom panel 30 spaced well below the rack, the washing means comprising a spray arm 46 disposed in proximity to the bottom panel and operable to spray washing fluid against glassware in the washing zone. 8. Apparatus according to claim 7, including means 48 mounting the spray arm for rotation about a generally vertical axis pump means 38 for pumping washing fluid into the spray arm means 50 for effecting rotation of the spray arm about the axis and a plurality of outlet opening 52 in the spray arm for discharging the washing fluid in a spray against glassware in the washing zone, each outlet opening being elongate and having a longitudinal axis which is at an angle to the longitudinal axis of the spray arm, whereby the washing fluid encounters the glassware in the washing zone in a path effecting swirling motion of the fluid around the inside surfaces of glassware articles disposed on the rack in inverted positions. 9. Apparatus according to claim 7, including a pump 38 in the basin operable to pump washing fluid into the spray arm for spraying against the glassware and to pump the washing fluid out of the basin after the glassware has been washed a first intake port in .the basin for directing washing fluid into the pump for pumping into the spray arm a second intake port in the basin for directing washing fluid into the pump for pumping out of the basin, the first and second intake ports being spaced apart and a screen element 60 substantially surrounding the first intake port to prevent solid particles from entering the first port, whereby solid particles are pumped out of the basin through the second intake port. 10. Apparatus according to any one of the preceding claims, including means 144,146,112,136,138,139 for sealing the partitions with the housing in a manner to seal the washing zone from the loading and unloading zones, thereby preventing leakage of water out of the washing zone. 11. Apparatus according to any one of claims 1 to 9, wherein each partition has a top edge portion, a side edge portion and a bottom edge portion and including seal means 144,146,112,136,138,139 providing liquid tight seals between the housing and each edge portion of the partitions which define the compartment located in the washing zone. 12. Apparatus according to any one of claims 1 to 9, including means 144,146 providing fluid tight seals between the housing and the surfaces of the partitions facing into the washing zone. 13 Apparatus according to any one of claims 1 to 9, including a sealing curtain 144,146 mounted to a top portion of the housing for sealing against the top portions of the partitions means 162 urging the curtain toward a raised position wherein the partitions can pass beneath the curtain upon rotation of the rack and means 164 for lowering the curtain from its raised position to a sealing position wherein the curtain effects a liquid tight seal against the surface of the adjacent partition facing into the washing zone. 14. Apparatus according to claim 13, wherein the rack includes a centre post 78 defining the axis of rotation of the rack, the lowering means comprising a pIn element 164 projecting outwardly from the post at a location wherein upon rotation of the rack, the pin element engages the curtain in a manner to pull the curtain downwardly from its raised position to its sealing position. 15. Apparatus according to any one of claims 1 to 9, including a first seal element 144 mounted on a top portion of the housing at a location above the washing zone adjacent one side thereof, the first seal element effecting a liquid tight seal with the partition located adjacent the one side of the washing zone, the seal being effected adjacent the top of the partition on a side thereof facing into the washing zone a second seal element 146 for sealing against the partition located adjacent the other side of the washing zone a bracket 150 carrying the second seal element means 154, 156 mounting the bracket to the top portion of the housing at a location above the washing zone adjacent the other side thereof, the mounting me ans permitting pivotal movement of second seal element between a raised position wherein the partitions can pass beneath the second seal element and a sealing position wherein the second seal element effects a liquid tight seal with the partition located adjacent the other side of the washing zone, the seal being effected adjacent the top of the partition on a side thereof facing into the washing zone means 162 for biasing the second seal element toward the raised position and means 164 for lowering the second seal element to the sealing position thereof in response to movement of a partition to a position adjacent the other side of the washing zone. 16. Apparatus according to claim 15, wherein the rack includes a centre post 78 defining the axis of rotation of the rack, the lowering means comprising at least one laterally projecting element 164 carried on the post at a location to engage the bracket 150 in a manner to move the second seal element downwardly to the sealing position thereof whenever one of the partitions approaches the other side of the washing compartment. 17i Apparatus according to claim 15, wherein the rack includes a centre post 78 defining the axis of rotation of the rack, the lowering means comprising a laterally projecting element 164 for each partition, the elements projecting from the post at locations generally above the respective partitions and engaging the bracket 150 in a manner to move the second seal element to the sealing position when the respective partitions approach the other side of the washing zone. 18. Apparatus according to any one of claims 1 to 9, including a generally circular rim 82 for the rack projecting generally upwardly therefrom, an outer edge portion of each partition being located adjacent to the rim a first seal element 136 mounted on the housing and overlapping the outer edge portion of a partition located adjacent one side of the washing zone in a manner to effect a seal against the partition and a second seal element 138 mounted on the housing at a location generally below the first seal element, the second seal element effecting a seal against the rim of the rack at a location adjacent the partition positioned at the one side of the washing zone. 19. Apparatus according to claim 18, including a pair of plate members 118 each having an upper surface means 126 for removably mounting the plate members to the housing at locations wherein the upper surfaces underlie the washing zone adjacent opposite sides thereof a lower edge portion of each partition extending below the rack and a seal element 112 carried on the lower edge portion of each partition, the seal elements effecting seals against the upper surfaces of the plate members when the partitions carrying the seal elements are moved to positions adjacent the opposite sides of the washing zone. 20. A method of washing glassware articles and the like, the method comprising the steps of loading dirty glassware articles onto a rotatable rack 74 with the glassware articles in inverted positions rotating the rack to position the dirty glassware articles in an enclosed wash compartment, directing a liquid spray generally upwardly toward the glassware articles to wash them in the wash compartment thereafter rinsing the glassware articles in the wash compartment, the rack remaining stationary in the same position during the spray directing step and the rinsing step rotating the rack to remove the clean glassware articles from the wash compartment and unloading the clean glassware articles from the rack. 21. A method according to claim 20, including the step of sealing the wash compartment during the spray directing step and the rinsing step. 22. A method according to claim 20 or claim 21, wherein the rinsing step comprises directing a liquid spray generally horizontally across the inverted glassware articles to rinse materials off of the bottoms of the articles. 23. A method according to any one of claims 20 to 23, wherein the spray directing step comprises directing the liquid spray into the glassware articles in a manner to effect swirling motion of the liquid around the interior surfaces of the articles.

## Description
GLASSWARE WASHING APPARATUS This invention relates to the washing of glassware such as glasses and other drinking vessels. In commercial establishments such as bars, hotels and restaurants, a large number of glasses are required and there is a corresponding need to wash glasses on a large scale. Although many different types of glass washing machines have been proposed, none of them has been entirely saitsfactory in all respects. The machines that are currently available are characterised by excessive cost and complexity, due in large part to their complicated structural and geometric arrangement.In a typical machine, the dirty glasses are loaded into one zone, prerinsed in another zone, washed in another zone, rinsed in still another zone, and are finally moved to an unloading zone where the clean glasses are removed. As can easily be appreciated, a machine constructed in this fashion necessarily has a large number of compartments which unduly complicates the structure.and makes the machine too bulky to conveniently fit beneath a bar or counter. Furthermore, it is necessary to move the glassware from one compartment to another between each successive cycle of the machine. Also the compartments are not adequately sealed or otherwise isolated from one another, and soapy water and food residue can pass between the compartments and become deposited on the clean glassware. Inefficiency of operation is another characteristic of existing glass washing machines.Typically, only a small number of glasses are washed at a time, the result being excessive consumption of hot water and electricity.Another and perhaps more significant problem is the inability of existing machines to thoroughly wash the glassware. Ordinarily, a spray arm sprays water upwardly inside of the inverted glasses. The water spray has a velocity component only in a direction tangent to the spray arm, and the water thus impinges on only one side of the interior of the glass i.e., the side facing in opposition to the direction of movement of the spray arm. The water then simply drains out of the glass along the side impacted by the spray, and there is no appreciable swirling action inside of the glass or any other motion of the water which causes it to contact the entirety of the inside surface of the glass.Consequently, lipstick, food residue and other materials often remain on the glasses and the effectiveness of the washing operation suffers accordingly.In a typical unit, food particles which are removed from the glassware are recirculated through the pump unit along with the wash water and are thus sprayed with the water against the glassware, thereby further detracting from the effectiveness of the machine. It is also common for soapy water and food residue to remain on the concave bottom surfaces of the inverted glasses. Past attempts to rinse material off of the bottom surfaces, as exemplified byU.S. Patent No. 3,942,545 to Flynn, have involved a large number of overhead spray pipes and other complicated plumbing configurations which make the machine overly complex and costly.As shown in the aforementioned Flynn patent, the wash spray is normally provided by a spray arm located closely below the rack on which the glassware is supported. Due to the close proximity of the spray arm to the glasses, the arm must be long enough to reach the glasses which are farthest from its centre. Therefore, a relatively long spray arm is required and an uneven spray pattern results in the typical situation where the glasses are . ashed in an area having an unusual shape. Another difficulty with existing machines is the inaccessibility of the components for periodic cleaning and for purposes of inspection and L aintenance operations. It is the primary object of the present invention to provide an improved glass washing machine which is constructed in a simpler and more compact fashion than existing machines. According to the invention, glassware washing apparatus comprises a housing presenting a loading zone for receiving dirty glassware, a washing zone for washing and rinsing the glassware and an unloading zone for unloading of clean glassware an opening in the housing providing access to the loading and unloading zones a rack mounted in the housing for rotation about a generally vertical axis, the rack being adapted to receive and support glassware thereon a plurality of partitions carried on the rack for rotation therewith and dividing the rack into a plurality of separate compartments each of which moves among the loading, washing and unloading zones upon rotation of the rack and means for washing the glassware disposed on the rack in the compartment positioned in the washing zone, and means for subsequently rinsing the glassware disposed on the rack in the compartment positioned in the washing zone whereby dirty glassware can be loaded into one of the compartments at the loading zone, then rotated with the one compartment into the washing zone for washing and rinsing therein and then rotated with the one compartment into the unloading zone for unloading. Means are preferably provided for sealing the partitions with the housing in a manner to seal the washing zone from the loading and unloading zones, thereby preventing leakage of water out of the washing zone. The seal means preferably assures that the wash compartment is sealed from the inside. This important feature may be achieved by a sealing curtain mounted to a top portion of the housing for sealing against the top portions of the partitions means urging the curtain toward a raised position wherein the partitions can pass beneath the curtain upon rotation of the rack and means for lowering the curtain from its raised position to a sealing position wherein the curtain effects a liquid tight seal against the surface of the adjacent partition facing into the washing zone. A swirling action of the wash water around the entire inside surfaces of the glasses being washed may be achieved by arranging the outlet openings of a spray arm at an angle which imparts velocity components both radially and tangentially of the spray arm, thereby effecting swirling motion of the spray and thorough washing of the glasses. The apparatus may include a removable hood supported on the housing at a location to cooperate therewith in a manner to enclose the washing zone.Preferably the apparatus then includes an upper edge of the housing on which the hood is supported, the upper edge having a flange thereon extending inwardly and downwardly into the washing zone and a lower edge of the hood having a flange thereon extending inwardly and downwardly into the washing zone and overlying the flange of the upper edge to support the hood on the housing. With this construction there is no need for gaskets or other seal elements between the hood and the cabinet of the machine, due to the unique manner in which the hood and cabinet fit together. There may be a basin in the housing underlying the washing zone and having a bottom panel spaced well below the rack, the washing means comprising a spray arm disposed in proximity to the bottom panel and operable to spray washing fluid against glassware in the washing zone. By recessing the spray arm within Åa deep basin which underlies the wash compartment, the length of the spray arm can be reduced while still permitting the spray to reach the glasses most remote from its centre. The apparatus may include a pump in the basin operable to pump washing fluid into the spray arm for spraying against the glassware and to pump the washing fluid out of the basin after the glassware has been washed a first intake port in the basin for directing washing fluid into the pump for pumping into the spray arm a second intake port in the basin for directing washing fluid into the pump for pumping out of the basin, the first and second intake ports being spaced apart and a screen element substantially surrounding the first intake port to prevent solid particles from entering the first port, whereby solid particles are pumped out of the basin through the second intake port. Food or other particles which are removed from the glasses are thus prevented from recirculating along with the wash water. An example of a glass washing machine in accordance with the invention is illustrated in the accompanying drawings, in which Figure 1 is a perspective view of the machine Figure 2 is a side elevation with a portion of the machine housing cabinet broken away for purposes of illustration Figure 3 is a front elevation, with portions of the cabinet broken away for purposes of illustration Figure 4 is an enlarged plan, with portions broken away Figure 5 is a fragmentary view on an enlarged scale taken generally on the line 5 5 of Figure 3 Figure 6 is a fragmentary view taken generally on the line 6 6 of Figure 4 in the direction of the arrows, with portions broken away Figure 7 is a fragmentary sectional view on an enlarged scale taken generally on the line 7 7 ofFigure 6 and, Figure 8 is a fragmentary sectional view on an enlarged scale taken generally along line 8 8 of Fig. 6.Referring now to the drawings in detail, numeral 10 generally designates a glass washing machine constructed in accordance with the present invention. The machine includes a sheet metal housing or cabinet 12 having a rectangular box like configuration. The cabinet includes opposite side walls 14 and 16, a front wall 18, a rear wall 20, and a horizontal bottom panel 22. The housing is open at the top and is equipped with four legs 24 which support the unit on a floor or another surface.As best shown in Fig. 2, the back half of the housing is provided with a basin 26 located below the washing zone of the machine, as will be more fully explained. Basin 26 has a back panel 28 which extends along the back wall 20 of the housing. A bottom panel 30 of the basin is located well above panel 22 of the housing, while a vertical partition 32 forms the front wall of the basin. A flange 34 is turned rearwardly from the upper edge of partition 32. The opposite sides of the basin are formed by inclined panels 36 see Fig. 3 extending from side walls 14 and 16 to connection with the side edges of bottom panel 30.An electric pump 38 is mounted to bottom panel 30 of the basin by means of a plurality of bolts 40 which attach a flange 42 of the pump to the underside of panel 30. Pump 38 is a conventional electrically driven centrifugal pump having a rotary impeller 44 located adjacent to the upper surface of panel 30. Pump 38 delivers water to a rotary spray arm 46 formed by horizontal pipe mounted on top of the pump unit. Spray arm 46 has a central fitting 48 which mounts the arm for rotation about its center. Arm 46 has a pair of side outlet openings 50 only one of which is visible in Fig. 3 located near opposite ends of the arm and on opposite sides of same. When liquid under pressure is pumped into spray arm 46, it discharges out of the side openings 50 and thereby effects rotation of the spray arm in the direction indicated by the arrow in Fig.5.With continued reference to Fig. 5 in particular, spray arm 46 has a plurality of nozzles 51 spaced along its length on the upper side of the arm. Each nozzle has an elongated spray outlet 52 having its longitudinal axis offset from the length axis of the spray arm by the acute angle A. The angle A is preferably in the range of approximately 85t 750 such that the axis of each spray outlet 52 is oriented at an angle of between 50 and 150 relative to a tangent line of the spray arm passing through the center of the opening. As will be explained more fully, angling of the spray openings 52 in this manner effects swirling motion of the liquid spray when it impinges on the inside of the glassware.Pump 38 is a reversible dual pump which operates in one mode recirculating to pump the liquid in basin 26 into the spray arm 46 and in another mode drain mode to pump the liquid in the basin out of the unit through a drain pipe 54 Fig. 2 which connects with the pump. The basin 26 is equipped with a pair of removable trapezoidal plates 56 which taper as they extend toward the pump and which are each provided with a pair of down turned flanges 58 extending along the side edges of the plate. Each flange 58 carries a mesh screen 60 which extends downwardly from plate 56 and contacts the floor panel 30 of the basin.Plates 56 are removable from the basin and have openings which receive small pins 62 extending upwardly from pump 38. The pins 62 assure that plates 56 and the screens 60 they carry are properly located in the basin.Pump 38 has a pair of diametrically opposed intake ports not shown for the recirculating mode which are located radially outwardly of pins 62. These ports are the intake ports for the recirculating pump which pumps liquid to spray arm 46, and they are both completely enclosed by the mesh screens 60. Consequently, food particles and other foreign materials are unable to enter the recirculating intake ports which connect with spray arm 46, due to the filtering effect provided by the screens. A second pair of diametrically opposed intake ports which serve as inlets for the drain mode i.e., the drain pump which pumps liquid into the drain pipe 54 are located 900 from the intake ports for the recirculating pump. Accordingly, the intake ports for the drain pump are not enclosed by the screens and are able to receive any foreign material located in the basin 26.The front housing wall 18 has a rectangular opening that is normally closed by a hinged door 64. As shown in broken lines in Fig. 2, a control panel 66 is carried on the inside surface of door 64 and includes the components which control operation of the glass washing machine and the dispensing of chemicals into the wash water and the rinse water, as will be described more fully. The controls are conventional and their manner of construction and operation are well known. The front portion of the cabinet located forwardly of partition 32 serves as a storage area in which chemicals and other materials may be stored.A horizontal panel 68 extends forwardly from partition 32 and is located slightly below the upper edge of the partition. Panel 68 connects with the front wall 18 of the housing and extends between the side walls 14 and 16. Panel 68 is equipped with a drain fitting 70 which connects with a drain pipe 72. Pipe 72 extends downwardly below fitting 70 and past pump 38 through the back wall 20 of the housing in order to drain off any water disposed on panel 68.A removable carousel or glass rack is generally designated by reference numeral 74. The glass rack is circular and includes a plurality of radial spokes or wires 76 which cooperate to provide a horizontal surface on which the glasses are supported in inverted positions. Each wire 76 extends outwardly from the lower end portion of a vertical post 78 located at the center of the rack. Post 78 carries a circular flange 80 to which the end portions of the wires may be tack welded or otherwise secured. The wires 76 are welded or otherwise secured at their outer ends to the lower edge portion of a circular metal band forming a rim 82 which extends well above the wires in order to prevent glassware from inadvertently sliding off of the rack. As best shown in Fig. 2, a vertical rod 84 extends downwardly from the bottom of post 78 through a small opening formed in flange 34.Rod 84 is received in a sleeve bushing 86 which is secured to partition 32 adjacent the flange 34. Rack 74 is thus supported on the cabinet for rotation about the vertical axis defined by the center post 78.Rack 74 is equipped with three identical partitions 90a, 90b and 90c which are spaced apart at 1200 intervals in order to divide the rack into three equally sized compartments. As will be more fully described, one compartment receives dirty glasses while another compartment holds the glasses that are being washed and the third compartment holds the clean glasses. The lower edge of each partition is located slightly below the surface defined by the wires 76, and the partitions extend from post 78 outwardly to the rim 82. The inner edge of each partition is bolted or otherwise secured to a bracket plate 92 mounted to post 78. The outer edge of each partition is secured to a bracket plate 94 See Fg. 6 mounted to the inside surface of rim 82. A removable hood 96 encloses the glass washing compartment of the machine which is defined above basin 26 and between the partitions 90b and DOc which are positioned toward the back of the machine. Hood 96 has opposite side panels 98, a back panel 100, and a top panel 102. The hood is open at the front to provide access to the loading compartment located between partitions 90a and 90b and to the unloading compartment located between partitions 90a and 90c when the rack is positioned as shown in Fig. 1.The front edges of side panels 98 are inclined and are provided with an in turned flange 104 which also extends along the front edge of top panel 102. A flange 106 is turned inwardly and downwardly from the top edge of each housing wall 14, 16, 18 and 20. As best shown in Fig. 6, the side panels 98 and the back panel 100 of the hood extend downwardly below the top edge of the housing in overlapping relation thereto outwardly of the housing walls. The lower edge portion of the hood is turned upwardly as indicated at 108 and is turned inwardly and downwardly to provide a flange 110 which is inclined at the same angle as flange 106. Flange 110 rests on top of flange 106 in a flush fit therewith in order to support hood 96 on top of the cabinet of the machine.Since the crack between flanges 106 and 110 is oriented at an upwardly inclined angle, the water spray in the wash compartment of the machine is unable to leak through the crack between the hood and the cabinet. Consequently, no gaskets or other seal elements are required between the hood and cabinet. Hood 96 can be removed from the machine simply by lifting it off of the cabinet.Each partition 90a, 90b and 90c projects below the surface formed by wires 76. As shown in Fig. 8, the lower edge of each partition carries a seal strip 112. Each seal st rip 112 is held in place by a bracket plate 114 which receives a plurality of screws 116. The seal strips 112 on the partitions which define the wash compartment of the machine seal against respective plates 118 mounted to the cabinet at locations below and adjacent to opposite sides of the wash compartment. The forward edge of each plate 118 has a downwardly turned flange 120 Fig. 2 which engages the upper edge of partition 32 to assist in maintaining the plate in the proper position. The side edge of each plate 118 rests on an angle member 122 Fig.6 which is welded or otherwise secured to the inside surface of the adjacent cabinet side wall The edge of each plate 118 opposite flange 120 is provided with an inclined flange 124 which is contacted by seal strip 112, as best shown in Fig. 8. In this manner, the bottom portions of the partitions are sealed against plate 118 in order to seal off the wash compartment of the machine from the remaining compartments.As shown in Fig. 6, each plate 118 is held in place by a vertical plate 126 having an in turned flange 128 at its bottom edge which engages the upper surface of plate 118. Plates 126 extend along the opposite side walls 14 and 16 of the cabinet, and each plate 126 has an inclined flange 130 at its upper edge which fits closely beneath the flange 105 formed on the upper edge of the cabinet wall. Plates 126 thus snap in place beneath flange 106 and may be removed by pulling or prying them from beneath the flange. With plates 126 removed, the horizontal plates 118 may be removed from the machine for cleaning or other purposes.An angle bracket 132 Fig. 4 is welded to the inside surface of each plate 126. Each angle 132 carries a pair of spaced apart bracket plateS134 which serve to mount three seal strips 136, 138 and 139 adjacent each side of the wash compartment. A plurality of screws 140 are threaded between plates 134 in order to tightly clamp the seal strips between the plates. The seal strips on each side of the unit may be formed from a single piece of rubber or the like which is slit in two places to form the separate seal strips 136, 138 and 139. The upper seal strip 136 in each set effects a seal against the side edge portion of the adjacent partition, while the intermediate seal strip 138 seals against the outside surface of rim 82. The lower strip 139 seals against the side edge of that portion of the partition which projects below rim 82.In this fashion, the partitions and rack are sealed against the housing on opposite sides of the wash compartment of the machine. Since the upper and lower seal strips 136 and 139 can overlap with the adjacent partition while the lower seal strip 138 must contact the outer surface of rim 82, as shown in Fig. 4, it is preferred that the seal strips be separate from one another.Hood 96 is equipped with a pair of seal curtains 144 and 146 which seal against the upper edge portions of the partitions located adjacent the opposite sides of the wash compartment. Each seal curtain 144 and 146 includes a plurality of adjacent seal ribbons 148 which are arranged in three layers each having its ribbons overlapping or staggered with respect to the ribbons in the adjacent layer, as shown in Fig. 6. The three layers of ribbons thus present a barrier which prevents liquid from leaking through the curtain.The ribbons 148 in each curtain have their upper portions clamped between a pair of plates 150 which are held together by a plurality of screws 152. One of the plates 150 in each pair is attached to a horizontal rod 154 which is supported for rotation within an elongate tube 156.Each tube 156 is connected at its inside end with a collar 58 mounted to the underside of the upper panel 102 of the hood. The top end of post 78 is received closely within collar 158 and is rotatable therein. The outer end of each tube 156 connects with a lug 160 which is secured to the underside of panel 102. Each rod 154 is rotatable within its tube 156 so that the curtains can move between the positions shown in solid lines and broken lines inFig. 7. A seal flap 148a projects upwardly from between each pair of plates 150 in order to seal against the hood panel 102, as shown in Fig. 7.Since the glass rack 74 is turned in the direction indicated by the arrow in Fig. 4, the seal curtain 144 on the left side of the unit seals against the adjacent partition on the side thereof which faces into the wash compartment, as shown in Fig. 1 for partition 90b.However, the partition 90 located at the opposite side of the wash compartment approaches the other curtain 146 from inside of the wash compartment. If the seal provided by curtain 146 is formed against the outwardly facing side of the partition as would normally occur due to the direction in which the partition approaches the curtain , liquid could possibly leak over the top of the partition and into the clean glass compartment defined between partitions 90a and 90e in Fig. 1. To prevent this, a.torsion spring 162 see Figs. 6 and 7 is coiled around the rod 154 from which curtain 146 is suspended. One end of spring 162 bears against panel 102, while the other end of the spring engages one of the plates 150 to thereby continuously urge curtain 146 toward the raised position shown in broken lines in Fig. 7. In this position, the lower edge of curtain 146 is raised sufficiently to permit the partitions to pass beneath it. Post 78 carries near its upper end three outwardly projectinq pins 164 which serve to lower curtain 146 from the broken line position of Fig. 7 to the sealing position shown in solid lines. Pins 164 are spaced around post 78 at20 intervals and are located directly above the partitions 90a, 90b, and 90c. The inside ribbons 148 in each curtain are provided with a slit 166 see Fig. 6 through which the pins 164 pass during rotation of the glass rack. A generally L shaped plate 168 is secured to plate 150 and is located adjacent slit 166 to reinforce the seal curtain in the area of the slit.As shown in Figs. 2 and 4, a vertical spray pipe 170 extends within the wash compartment of the machine at one corner thereof. Pipe 170 is connected with a source of fresh rinse water which is directed into pipe 170 during the rinse cycle of the machine and which discharges through a series of vertically spaced slots 172. The slots are spaced vertically apart and face generally into the wash compartment, extending through an arc of approximately 1200. In operation of the machine, dirty glasses are loaded into the loading compartment of rack 74 which is defined at the left front of the unit between partitions 90a and 90b when the rack is positioned as shown in Fig. 1 . The dirty glasses are placed on wires 76 in inverted positions, and when the loading compartment is full, rack 74 is rotated by hand through an arc of 1200 to position the dirty glasses in the wash compartment located within hood 96 between partitions 90b and 90c . . Seal strips 112 provide seals between the bottom portions of the partitions and the housing, while seal strips 136, 138 and 139 provide seals between the housing of the machine and the side edges of the partitions and glass rack.Seal curtain 144 provides a water tight seal against the top portion of the adjacent partition on the side of the partition which faces into the wash compartment. As the partition on the opposite side of the wash compartment approaches seal curtain 146, pin 164 engages plate 150 and pulls curtain 146 downwardly from the position shown in broken lines in Fig. 7 toward the sealing position shown in solid lines. Curtain 146 thus seals against the surface of the adjacent partition which faces into the wash compartment in order to prevent leakage of any liquid over the top of the partition.When the dirty glasses have been positioned in the wash compartment, a wash cycle of the machine is initiated by the controls on the control panel 66 mounted on the inside surface of door 64. During the wash cycle, detergent chemicals are dispensed into basin 26 and, along with the water in the basin, are pumped into spray arm 46. The liquid discharging through the side openings 50 causes arm 46 to rotate, and the water and chemicals are sprayed generally upwardly out of the nozzle openings 52. Due to the angled orientation of the nozzle openings relative to the direction of rotation of the spray arm, the spray provided by the spray arm has significant velocity components both radially and tangentially of the path of the arm.As a result, the liquid is directed in a path causing it to swirl around the entire inside surfaces of the inverted glasses in the wash compartment, thereby thoroughly cleaning the glasses.Since the spray arm 46 is recessed well below the glass rack in proximity to the bottom of basin 26, the spray has sufficient room to spread out such that it can reach the glasses most remote from the center of the spray arm.Consequently, a relatively short spray arm is able to effectively and uniformly spray the glasses supported on the fan shaped portion of the glass rack located within the wash compartment of the machine. Any food particles which are washed off of the glasses and into basin 26 encounter the screens 60 and are thus not recirculated along with the wash water against the glasses.Once the wash cycle has been completed, pump 38 enters the drain mode and begins pumping the wash water out of basin 26 through the drain pipe 54. Any food scraps or other solid particles are drawn off of screens 60 during the drain cycle and are pumped out of the unit through pipe 54. A rinse cycle is then initiated, and fresh water is delivered to pipe 170. The rinse water discharges through slots 172 in a fan shaped pattern and in a plurality of spaced apart horizontal planes. Consequently, the rinse water rinses any food residue or soapy water off of the bottom surfaces of the inverted glasses in the wash compartment. Since slots 172 are located at various elevations, glasses of varying heights are accommodated. The rinse water within basin 26 is pumped into spray arm 46 and discharges through the nozzles 52 during recirculation of the rinse water in the rinse cycle. The rinse water swirls around the inside surfaces of the glasses in order to thoroughly rinse them of soap suds and the like. Chemicals which sanitize and chemicals which inhibit spotting of the glasses are preferably injected into the rinse water by the controls on panel 66. At the end of the rinse cycle, the rinse water remains in basin 26 and is used during the next wash cycle of the machine.Once the wash and rinse cycles have been completed, rack may remain stationary or it may be rotated to position the clean glasses in the unloading compartment of the machine between partitions 90a and 90c in Fig. 1 . As the glass rack rotates, pin 164 clears the lower edge of plate 150, thus releasing curtain 146 and permitting its spring 162 to return it to the raised position shown in broken lines in Fig. 7. The next partition can thus pass beneath the lower ridge of curtain rod 46. The pin 164 passes through the slit 166 in the curtain after it has cleared plate 150.The clean glasses may be removed from the unloading station of the machine as needed, and dirty. glasses may be deposited in the loading station at the same time. Dirty glasses may be loaded into the machine and clean glasses may be removed from the machine while the glasses in the wash compartment are being washed and or rinsed, before initiation of the wash cycle, or after completion of the rinse cycle. It is contemplated that the glass rack will normally be rotated one increment each time the loading compartment becomes filled with dirty glasses. A fresh set of clean glasses is then rotated simultaneously into the unloading compartment, and the clean glasses may be removed as needed. In this manner, each of the three compartments of the glass rack serves successively as a loading compartment, a wash and rinse compartment, and an unloading compartment.Since the glasses are washed and rinsed in the same compartment, there is no need for separate compartments to effect washing and rinsing, and the size of the machine is reduced accordingly. Also, the glass rack need not be rotated immediately following completion of the wash cycle in order to permit rinsing to be carried out in a separate compartment, since the rinse cycle automatically follows the wash cycle and is carried out in the same compartment with the rack remaining stationary in the same position. Hood 96 and rack 74 can be easily removed from the machine for purposes of cleaning and maintenance. With the glass rack removed, basin 26 is readily accessible to permit removal of the screens 60 and to provide access to the spray arm 46. In addition, the horizontal plate 118 and the vertical Plates 126 may be removed for cleaning and to permit inspection and periodic replacement of the seal elements 136, 138 and 139. Seal curtains 144 and 146 are carried on hood 96, while seal elements 112 are carried on the partitions. Replacement of the seal elements is thus easily carried out.