# Substituted bis imidazolidines and their use as stabilizers for polymers.

## Abstract
Substituted bis imidazolidines having the general for mula

## Claims
CLAIMSI Substituted bis imidazolidines of the general formula EMI14.1 wherein A is an aromatic or an alkyl substituted aromatic radical havina from 6 to 8 carbon atoms, a saturated or unsatu rated, linear or branched alkylene radical having from 1 to 18 carbon atoms, or a simple or substituted cyclo alkvlene radical having from 3 to 18 carbon atoms R1, R2, R3 and R4, which may be the same or different, are each an alkyl radical having from 1 to 4 carbon atoms, or R1 and R2 together and R3 and R4 together form a cyclo alkylene radical having from 3 to 12 car bon atoms R5 is hydrogen or an alkyl or alkylene radical havina from 1 to 12 carbon atoms or a cvclo alkvl radical hav ino from 3 to 12 carbon atoms, or an aralkvl radical having from 7 to 18 carbon atoms R6, R7, R8, and Rg, which may be the same or different, are each hydrogen or a linear or branched alkvl radi cal having from 1 to 6 carbon atoms n is a whole number comnrised between 0 and 1 when n is 0, radical R10 may be omitted and in such a case the two carbon atoms, containing R10 radical, are linked to each other bv a double bond. 2 Substituted bis imidazolidines of the general formula I , according to claim 1, wherein A is an alkylene having from 2 to 6 carbon atoms, a phenvlene or a methyl phenylene radical R1, R2, R3 and R4 are each a methyl 3 R5 is a methyl or hydrogen and R6, R7, R8, R9 and R10 are each hydrogen. 3 Comnositions of thermoplastic synthetic polymers, stabi lized to oxidation, heat and light, having incorporated therein, in an amount sufficient to prevent any degrada tion of the polymer, a substituted bis imidazolidine of the general formula EMI16.1 wherein A is an aromatic or an alkyl substituted aromatic radi cal having from 6 to 8 carbon atoms, a saturated or unsaturated, linear or branched alkylene radical hav ing from 1 to 18 carbon atoms, or a simnle or substi tuted cyclo alkylene radical having from 3 to 18 car bon atoms R1, R2, R3 and R4, which may be the same or different, R2, R3 are each an alkyl radical having from 1 to 4 carbon atoms, or R1 and R2 together and R3 and R4 together form a cyclo alkylene radical having from 3 to 12 car bon atoms R5 is hydrogen or an alkyl radical having from 1 to 12 carbon atoms or a cyclo alkyl radical having from 3 to 12 carbon atoms, or an aralkyl radi cal havina from 7 to 18 carbon atoms R6, R7, R8, and R9, which may be the same or different, are each hvdroaen or a linear or branched alkyl radi cal havina from 1 to 6 carbon atoms n is a whole number comprised between 0 and 1 when n is 0, radical R10 may be omitted and in such a case the two carbon atoms, containing R1Q radical, are linked to each other by a double bond. 4 Compositions according to claim 3, wherein the substitut ed imidazolidines having general formula I are present in an amount ranaina from 0.018 to 5 bv weiaht on the weight of the polymer. 5 Comnositions according to claim 3 or 4 wherein the syn thetic thermonlastic polymer is polyolefin. 6 Comnositions according to claim 5, wherein the polyole fin is polypropylene consisting prevailingly of isotac tic macromolecules. 7 Comnositions according to claim 5 or 6, wherein the sub stituted imidazolidines having general formula I are present in an amount ranging from 0.01 to 2 by weight on the weight of the polyolefin. 8 Comnositions according to claim 3 or 4, wherein the thermonlastic synthetic polymer is polyvinylchloride or polyvinvlidene chloride. 9 Comnositions according to claim 8, in which the sub stituted imidazolidines having aeneral formula I are present in an amount ranging from 0.01t to 1 by weight on the weight of the polymer. 111 Comnositions according to claim 3 or 4, in which the thermonlastic synthetic polymer is a polyurethane or a polvamide. 11 Comnositions according to claim 10, in which the sub stituted imidazolidines having general formula I are present in an amount ranging from 0.01 to 5 by weight on the weight of the polymer. 12 Compositions according to claim 3, in which the sub stituted imidazolidines having general formula I are employed in admixture with other known additives select ed from the group consisting of anti oxidants, U.V. radiation absorbers, pigments, fillers, basic nitrogen containing polycondensates and auxiliary stabilizers. 13 Compositions according to claim 12, in which the ratio by weight of the known additives to the substituted imi dazolidines having general formula I is from 0.5 1 to 3 1.

## Description
The present invention relates to substituted bis imidazolidines and to the use thereof as stabilizers of thermoplastic polymeric substances. It is known that the actinic radiations, particularly in the near ultraviolet region, have a deleterious effect on the annearance and pronerties of organic polymers. For instance, normally colorless polyesters yellow on exposure to sunliaht. The rate of air oxidation of polyolefins is materially accelerated by ultraviolet light. Polystyrene discolors and crack, with accompanying loss of its desirable oronerties, when exposed to actinic light, etc. It has been proposed to stabilize polymeric materials against ultraviolet light deterioration by the use of various types of comnounds contrasting and preventing such an effect. Known compounds belonging to such class of stabilizers are the derivatives of 2,2,6,6 tetra alkyl piperidine. In order, however, for a stabilizer to be successfully utilizable in practice, it should not only contain active functional groups but it should also show optimum values for some chemical and physical properties, among which principallv volatility, water extraction, solubility and compatibility with the product to be stabilized, diffusibility in the product etc. Thus, for instance, a highly volatile stabilizer cannot find a useful utilization because it is eliminated or its quantity decreases during the moulding or spinning process of the stabilized product. Similarly, even a water soluble stabilizer does not make it possible to provide protection for a longer period of time, especially not when the sta bilized product is to aet into contact with water during its use. The obect of the present invention is that of providina a compound that, besides having active functional arouns, has all the requisites that will render it industrially in terestina. The Applicant has now discovered that the above. object is achieved by using substituted bis imidazolidines havina the qeneral formula EMI2.1 wherein A is an aromatic or alkyl substituted aromatic radical hav ina from 6 to 18 carbon atoms, a saturated or unsaturated, linear or branched alkylene radical having from 1 to 18 carbon atoms, or a simtle or substituted cyclo alkylene radical having from 3 to 18 carbon atoms R1, R2, R3 and R4, which may be the same or different, each is an alkyl radical having from 1 to 4 carbon atoms or R1 and R2 toaether and R3 and R4 together form a cyclo alky lene radical having from 3 to 12 carbon atoms R5 is a hydrogen or an alkyl radical having from 1 to 12 carbon atoms or a cyclo alkyl radical havina from 3 to 12 carbon atoms or an aralkyl radical havinq from 7 to 18 carbon atoms R6, R7, R8, Rg and R10, which may be the same or different, are each hydrogen or a linear or branched alkyl radical having from 1 to 6 carbon atoms and n may be O or 1 when n is 0, the radical R10 may be omitted and in such a case the two carbons, containing R1 n radical, are linked to each other by a double bond. The present invention provides, too, compositions based on thermoplastic synthetic polymers, stabilized to ageing and oxidation, containing, as a stabilizer, a substituted bis imidazolidine having general formula I indicated herein before in an amount sufficient to prevent any degrading action of the polymer. The present preferred substituted bis imidazolidines, having general formula I , for use in the embodiment of the present invention are those in which A is an alkylene havin from 2 to 6 carbon atoms, a phenylene radical or a me thl nenylene radical R1, R2, R3 and R4 are each a methyl R5 is hydrogen or a methyl and R6, R7, R8, R9 and R10 are each hydrogen. The compounds of general formula I may be synthesized according to any conventional method known in the literature. Thus, for instance, the comnounds having general formula I can be synthesized bv reacting a di aldehyde with N,N di 2,2,6,6 tetra alkyl 4 piperidyl ethylene diamine, accord ina to the following reaction scheme EMI4.1 The condensation reaction is carried out hy heating the mixture of the two reactants II and III , in either the Presence or absence of a solvent or a dispersant or of a dehydratinq aaent which, by absorbina the condensation water, facilitates the completion of the reaction. The substituted ethylen diamine II may be synthesized according to any conventional method known in the literature such as, for instance, by hydrosenatina, under pressure and in the presence of a hydrogenation catalyst such as platinum, an ethvlene diamine and an alkyl substituted 4 piperidone mixture, according to the following reaction scheme EMI5.1 The substituted bis inidazolidines of general formula I may be used as stabilizers of organic materials usually subiect to dearadation due to the action of heat, oxvgen and attinic liaht. The materials which can be stabilized with the above reported compounds are mainly synthetic polymeric oraanic substances which include, for instance nolvolefins, such as olefin homonolymers, among which high and low density polyethylene, polypropylene, polystyrene, polybutadiene, polyisotrene, and the likes and conolymers of the olefins with other ethylenically unsaturated mono mers, such as ethylene propylene copolymers, styrene bute ne copolymers, styrene butadiene copolymers, styrene acry lonitrile copolymers and acrylonitrile styrene butadiene cotolymers polyvinyl chloride and polyvinylidene chloride, including both the homonolymers and copolymers of vinyl chloride and of vinvlidene chloride with each other or each of them with vinyl acetate or with other ethylenically unsaturated monomers nolyacetals, such as polyoxymethylene and polyoxyethylene polyesters, such as polyethylene terephtalates polyamides, such as Nylon 6, Nylon 6 6 and Nylon 6 10 polyurethanes polyçarbonates butadiene styrene copolymers natural and synthetic rubbers, etc. Such svnthetic polymers can be used in the form of tow der, granules, or shaped articles such as, for example, fi bres, films, sheets and other shaned articles or latexes or foams. Among the ahove synthetic polymers, the most suitable ones for being used according to this invention, are the polyolefins deriving from monomers having general formula R CH CH2, wherein R is an alkyl or aryl grout, or hydrogen. The present preferred polyolefin is polypronylene consistine Prevailinsly of isotactic macromolecules and obtained bv polymerization of pronylene, in the presence of stereospecific catalvst. The amount of substituted bis imidazolidine, having general formula I , to be added to the substance to be stabilized, according to this invention, is not critical and may varv in a wide range as function of the type, properties and particular uses of the substance. Generally, said stabilizers can be added in amounts ranging from 0.01 to 5.0 by weight in practice, however, the effective amount varies as a function of the type of substance to be stabilized.Thus, for example, in the case of polyolefins, the effective amount can range from 0.01 to 2 by weight, in the case of polyvinyl and polyvinylidene chloride, such amount can range from 0.01 to 1 by weight while, in the case of polyurethanes and polvamides, such amount may range from 0.01 to 5 by weight. The stabilizer havina general formula I may be emploved either alone or in admixture with other known additives such as anti oxidizers, ultraviolet ray absorbers, pigments, fillers, basic nitroaen containing polycondensates, other stabilizers, etc. Some examnles of such additives are oxi benzo triazoles, oxi benzo phenones, Ni stahilizers, metal soaps, phenolic antioxidants, phosthites, thioesters, hydroquinone derivatives, triazine compounds, acyl amino phenols, benzyl phosphonates, etc. Such additives may be used alona with the substituted bis imidazolidines, having general formula I , according to the present invention, in a ratio by weight ranging from 0.5 1 to 3 1. The comnounds having general formula I or the mixture containina said comnounds can be incorporated into the syn thetic polymer or the substance to be stabilized according to any known procedure and at any stage either before or after polymerization or during the manufacture of the shaped article from the polymer. Thus, for example, it is possible to effect a simnle admixing of the additives in powder form, under stirrinq, to the polymer or the polymer can be mixed together with a solution of the stabilizers in a suitable solvent, which will successively be evaporated or the stabilizers can be added to the polymer at the end of the polymerization process. Furthermore, it is possible to get the stabilizing action bv applyina the stabilizer on the manufactured article, for example, by dipping it into a solution or dispersion of the stabilizer, and then by evatorating the solvent or the dispersant, or by dissolving the stabilizer in a suitable solvent and then by spraying the solution on the surface of the manufactured article. The following non limiting examples are given for a more detailed understanding of the present invention and for further enabling those skilled in the art to practice the same. In the example, the parts are given by weight, unless othenzise specified. EXAMPLE No. 1 2,2 p phenylene bis 1,3 di 2,2,6,6 tetramethyl 4 piperi dvl imidazolidine. 5n.5 a of N,N di 2,2,6,6 tetra methyl 4 piperidyl ethylendiamine and 10 g of terephthalic dialdehyde were introduced into a 250 ml reactor. After having evacuated the oxygen from the reactor by reneated introduction and evacuation of nitrogen, the mixture was heated up to meltina point.Thereunon, the mixture was additioned with 100 ml of toluene and the solution thus obtained was then heated up to boiling coin. The developed vapours were gathered and condensed in a Marcusson water separator. The heating of the mixture was continued until the vapors did not contain any more water. By cooling the residual solution in the reactor, a precipitate was obtained which was filtered and crystallized by ethyl acetate. Thereby a white crvstalline powder was obtained showing a melt point of 263 C. On the basis of the nuclear magnetic resonance N.M.R. , nitrogen percentage, molecular weight and of the mass spectrum analyses, to the obtained product the following structural formula was attribut ed EMI10.1 EXAs sPLE 2 The process modalities of example 1 were repeated, by reactina 34 g of N,N di 2,2,6,6 tetra methyl 4 piteridyl ethylene diamine with 5 q of glutaric dialdehyde.A white powder was obtained showing a melt point of 124 125 C, and to which, through analyses of N.M.R., nitrogen percentage, mass ssectrum and molecular weight, the following structural formula was attributed EMI11.1 Stabilization tests. 200 cc of chloroform, containing dissolved therein one of the comnounds of examples 1 and 2 in amounts as indicated in the Table, were added to 300 a of non stabilized polypropylene, having an intrinsic viscosity, measured in tetraline at 1300C, of 162 cc g, a residue, after the extraction of the crude polymerizate with n heptane, of 96.58 and an ash content of 80 ppm. Each mixture was stirred for about 6 hours at room temperature, in a rotary evanorator and then dried at 500C, at 0,01 mm of He, for 1 hour. The additioned powder so obtained was extruded through a Brabender extruder, at 2200C, and granulated. The granules were transformed into films having an uniform thickness of 50 60 microns. On the films so produced, the thermo oxidative and the nhoto oxidative stahilities were determined. The thermo oxidative stability was determined by measurina the induction period IP , considered as the time required for getting a quick increase of the oxygen absorbing rate, at different temperatures and under a pressure of 760 mm ofHg of oxygen. To determine the induction period of the thermo oxidation, 0.2 g of the above film were cut up into pieces and 3 introduced into a cell of about 50 cm in which an oxygen atmosphere was created by repeatedly removina and introduc ing oxygen. The cell was then immersed into a thermostatical ly heat stabilized bath, maintained at the wanted tempera ture, and connected with an oxvgen absorption measuring device, eauinned with recording systems of the absorbed volumes. As photo oxidative stability, the embrittlement time was measured. As embrittlement time was considered the time reauired to cause the runture of the film by only one bend ing at 1800 after exposure to the Xenotest 1200, under the following operative conditions temperature of the black panel 45 C relative humidity 50t alternate exposure to the maximum ultraviolet intensity. The values of the induction period IP and of the embrittlement time to the Xenotest, are recorded on the followina table TABLEEMI13.1 tb Compound SEP of SEP Thermo oxidative SEP Photo oxidative tb SEP example SEP SEP by SEP weight SEP stability SEP in SEP h SEP stability SEP in SEP h tb SEP Nr. tb SEP at SEP 1700C SEP at SEP 1500C SEP tb SEP 0 SEP SEP 0 SEP 24 SEP 100 tb SEP 1 SEP 0.3 SEP 13 SEP 300 SEP 1100 tb SEP 1 SEP 0.5 SEP 18 SEP 490 SEP 1800 tb SEP 2 SEP 0.5 SEP 16 SEP 420 SEP 1900 tb