# Automatic tool changer and tool storage arrangement for machine tool.

## Abstract
A combined tool storage and tool change arrangement for use with a machine tool of the type which includes a power driven rotatable spindle 82 having a socket which receives a tool shank of a predetermined size. The tool storage arrange ment comprises a main tool storage magazine 90 with a plurality of tool receiving sockets 100 sized to respectively receive a tool having a shank of said predetermined size. Means is provided for moving the main tool storage magazine 90 whereby to present a predetermined tool receiving socket and the tool therein to a first tool transfer point 478 . An auxiliary tool storage magazine 400 is provided for receiving and storing a plurality of tools 600 having shanks of a differ ent size than said predetermined size. The auxiliary tool stor age magazine 400 has a shank of said predetermined size whereby the auxiliary tool storage magazine 400 may be stored in a socket of the main tool storage magazine 90 . Means 94 is provided for transferring the auxiliary tool stor age magazine 400 having a desired assortment of tools thereon from the main tool storage magazine 90 to a tool transfer station contiguous the spindle 82 of the machine tool. Means is provided at the tool transfer station for indexing the auxiliary tool storage magazine 400 whereby to present a predetermined tool carried by the auxiliary tool storage magazine 400 to a proper position for transfer to the spindle 82 of the machine tool, and a tool transfer means 96B is provided for transferring the predetermined tool from the auxiliary tool storage magazine 400 to the spindle 82 of the machine tool. The auxiliary tool storage magazine 400 is provided with sockets for receiving tools 600 stored thereon, and the sockets are sized to receive tools 600 having shanks of a size which is different than said predetermined size. The spindle 82 is provided with an adapter 500 to receive a tool having the shank of different size. The adapter 500 itself has a shank of said predetermined size, whereby the adapter 500 may be stored in the main tool storage magazine 90 , and whereby the adapter 500 may be received by the socket of the machine tool spindle 82 .