# Stand for stationary rolling line.

## Abstract
The invention concerns improvements to stands 20 in stationary rolling lines, comprising two rolls 29 superim posed with a horizontal or upright axis, whereby said rolls 29 are of a replaceable type, said improvements comprising, in coordinated cooperation with a pack unit 21 of rolls 29 complete with housings 27 and means to uphold and posi tion 30 the rolling equipment and able to be dismantled and re installed by simple withdrawal and reintroduction, one or more of the following means to adjust axially the upper roll means to swing at least one housing 27 , being placed advan tageously on a plane passing through the lengthwise axis of the roll 29 means for lengthwise positioning and guiding present in the supports 34 of the housings 27 28 and in the housings 28 located at one side of said pack unit 21 bear ing structure means 22 with means to adjust the rolls means for lengthwise positioning 25 24 26 and means 34 to sup port the rolls and means for simultaneous coupling uncoupling of the extensions. The invention also concerns the stands in stationary rolling lines which adopt one or more of said improvements.

## Claims
CLAIMS I. Improvements to stands 20 in stationary rolling lines, comprising two rolls 29 superimposed with a horizon ontal or upright axis, whereby said rolls 29 are of a replaceable type, said improvements being characterised by comprising one or more of the following, in coordinated co operation with a pack unit 2I of rolls 29 complete with housings 27 and with means 30 to uphold and position the rolling equipment, said unit 2I being able to be dismantled and re installed by simple withdrawal and re introduction means 36 to adjust axially the upper roll, means 39 to swing at least one housing 27 , being located advantageously on a plane passing through the length . wise axis Oi the roll 29 , means 87 for lengthv ise positioning and guiding, being. present in the supports 34 of the housings 27 28 and in the housings 28 located at one side of said pack unit 2I , bearing structure means 22 with means 88 for adjusting the rolls, means for lengthwise positioning 25 24 26 c nd means for supporting 34 the rolls, and means 89 for the simultaneous coupling uncoupling of the extensions 56 . 2. Improvements to stands 20 in stationary rolling lines, as in Claim I, characterised by the fact that tile means 36 for axial adjustment of the upper roll comprise. in mutual cooperation and coordination a movable ring nut I38 with clamping functions screwed. onto 3m anchorage ring nut 62 which is anchored in a known matter to a bearing means solidly fixed axially to the roll 29 and which can be screwed onto a fixed threaded ring nut 162 fixed solidly to the hous ,ing 28 . 3. Improvements to stands 20 in stationary rolling ,lines, as in Claim I, characterised by the fact that the ,means 39 to swing at least one housing 28 are placed . advantageously on a plane assing through the lengthwise .axis of the roll 29 and comprise a rounded sliding block . 4I and advantageously adjustable cotter means 40 , which ,cooperate with the groove 32 present in the housings 28 . and with the guides 35 present in the standards 34 . . 4. Improvements to stands 20 in stationary rolling lines, as in Claim I, characterised by the fact that the .lengthwise positioning and guide means 87 present in the supports 34 of the housings 7 28 and in the housings . 28 located on one side of the pack unit 21 comprise groove means 32 and guide means 35 cooperating vith each other. 5. Improvements to stands 20 in stationary rolling lilies, as in Claim I, characterised by the fact that the .baring structure means 22 comprise a base 24 to guide .and uphold vertical and lengthwise positioning means 23 , whereby clamp type anchorage means 26 are present. . 6. Improvements to stands 20 in stationary rolling lines, as in Claim I and Claim 5, characterised by the fact ,that the vertical and lengthwise positioning means 23 con tain the drive groups 60 5I 52 53 for vertical actuation of the rolls 29 . . 7. Improvements to stands 20 in stationary rolling .lines, as in Claim I and in Claim 5 or 6, characterised by the fact that the shafts 53 of the drive groups comprise frontal coupling means 65 and alignment means 66 and co operate with rotational clamping means 69 64 for vertical .fixture of the adjustment axles 54 . 8. Improvements to stands 20 in stationary rolling lines, as in Claims i 5 and in one or another of the claims thereafter, characterised by the fact that, when the pack unit 2I is dismantled, the adjustment axles 54 togethcr vth the end part 67 act as supporting feet. 9. Improvements to stands 20 in stationary rolling lines, as in Claims I 5 and in one or another of the Claims thereafter, characterised by the fact that the adjustment axles 54 include at their end a recess or protrusion 64 which is stationary or rotates and with which a clamping tooth 69 cooperates. IO. Improvements to stands 20 in stationary rolling lines, as in Claims I 5 and in one or another of the Claims thereafter, characterised by the fact that the vertical and lengthwise positioning means 23 include lateral guiding . and positioning standards 34 which are separate at their . top. II. Improvements to stands 20 in stationary rolling lines, as in Claim I, characterised by the fact that the means 89 for simultaneous coupling uncoupling of the ex . tensions 56 comprise a U sh ped eiement 74 enclosing within its sides at least part of the t o extensions 56 and supporting and positioning the same, whereby said Ushaped element 74 can be roved axially to the rolls 29 with drive means 80 , and whereby there are advantageously lengthwise guide means 81 . 12. Improvements to stands 20 in stationary rolling lines, comprising two rolls 29 superimposed with a horizontal or upright axis, whereby said rolls 29 are of a replaceable type, said improvements being characterised by adopting one or more of the improvements according to ClaimsI to IS inclusive. I3. Improvements to stands 20 in stationary rolling lines, comprising two rolls 29 supel imposed with a horiz ontal or upright axis, whereby said rol ls 29 are of replaceable type, and stands 20 in stationary rolling lines comprising two rolls 29 superimposed with a horizontal or upright axis, whereby said rolls 29 are of a replaceable type, as in one or another of the Claims hereinbefore, as described and shown and for the purposes allowed.

## Description
Description of the invention entitled Improvements to stands in stationary rolling lines, and stands in stationary rolling lines thus improved in the name of DAIJIILI C. Off.Mecc. S.p.A. at BUTTRIO submitted on under No. This invention concerns improvements to stands in stat ionary rolling lines to be more exact, the invention con .cerns improvements to two high stands, the rolling line being kept stationary. The invention also concerns two high. stands in stationary rolling lines. The invention refers in particular to horizontal and .or upright two high stands wherein the rolls group can be dismantled and replaced quickly. To be more precise, the invention refers to a two high stand with a stationary or substantially constant rolling line wherein the rolls together with the housings can be removed and replaces. The invention envisages a plurality of improvements which can be adopted partly or wholly in a two high stand, and therefore envisages a two high stand in which one or more of the improvements according to the invention are ad opted. The first relevant improvement according to the invention consists in havinv embodied the rolls roup as one single, compact assembly, complete with housinge and rolling equipment and able to be dismantled and reassembled as one.single unit. The very great advantages which this improvement offers are evident, as follows Ease and speed of replacement of the rolling unit. Ability to carry out simplified maintenance in suitable places. Ability to fit out the unit previously elsewhere. Reduction in the costs of investment and operation. These and yet other advantages arise from said improvements. To bring this about, steps have been taken to embody a tvJo high stand with supports for the housings which also act functionally as standards, the bearing frame being reduced to a service unit for the positioning and ad justment controls. A further improvement rise in the operating ability to use the supports of the lower and or upper housings as means for anchoring the platform that upholds and positions the rolling equipment. h variant of this improvement envisages the anchoring of said platform that upholds and positions the rolling equipment, on a support anchored to the connecting sleeve between the supports of the housings. The advantage provided by these improvements is obvious, for they make possible the perfect equipping of a unit in the specific shop concerned and not in the rolling line, with a clear gain in the time and quality of the work and its outcoms. A further improvement springs both from the fact that such a single unit is steered razz positioned lengthwise by guides cooperating vith the supports of the housings of only one side, the supports of the other side being free to slide lengthwise, and also from the fact that such a unit allows said guided supports to be able to swing within a desired. arc. This improvement is highly relevant inasmuch as its allows straight roller bearings to be used and also permits bending in the structure of the rolling unit, this bending being absorbed directly by the structure of the unit itself without the structure of the sustaining, adjusting and po sitioning framework being affected. This enables the highest rolling pressures and the longest v orking life of the roller bearings fitted to be attained. Moreover, by permitting the employment of two thrust bearings, one for each roll, the invention enables the axial thrusts generated even during the rolling of structural sections to be sustained and thus makes it possible to obtain more perfect finished products. A further improvement is offered by the system for bearing the unit on the framework. This system visualises not only self alignment during installation but also envis ages the unloading of the force of weight and the vertical forces in a direct way such as to obviate an malous stresseE in the rolling unit. The advantage of this improvement is clear, in that it enables the hole structure of the unit to be lightened by creating elements which are specialised structurally and functionally and which are suitable for their specific tasks. Furthermore, the system for disconnecting and reconnecting the extensions is an important improvement since the extensions are actuated simulatneously by a U shaped element operated by suitable means such as jacks or linearly actuat ing screws. This improvement is important in that it enables the extensions to be kept positioned on the bearing structure, tbuc obviating unnecessary repetitive operations. The invention also envisages other improvements which will become clear hereinafter in the description.. The invention, therefore, visualises improvements to stands in stationary rolling lines, said stands comprising.. two rolls superimposed with horizontal or vertical axis, vehereby the rolls are of a replaceable type, said improve . ments being characterised by comprising one or more of the . following, in coordinated cooperation with a pack rolling unit complete with housings 2nd with means to sustain and position the rolling equipment, said unit being able to be removed and reinstalled by simple extraction and reintroduct ion means tor axial adjustment of the upper roll, means for swinging at least one housing, said means being positioned advantageously on plane passing through the . lengthwise axis of the roll, . guide means for lengthwise positioning, located in the supports of the housings situated on one side of said pack unit, bearing structure means with means for adjusting the rolls, means for their lengthwise positioning ,nd means for sus . taining the rolls, . and means for the simulatneous anchoring and releasing of the extensions. he invention also refers to stands in stationary rol ling lines, whereby said stands comprise two rolls super imposed with a horizontal or vertical axis and said rolls . are of a replaceable type, said stands being characterised by including in coordinated cooperation a pack rolling unit complete with housings and with means to sustain and posit ion the rolling equipment, said unit being able to be remov . ed and reinstalled by simple extraction and reintroduction, whereby said stands adopt one or more of the improvements proposed. With the help of the attached tables, which are given as non restrictive examples, let us no see a preferential solution of the invention. The tables show the following Fig.I shows a rolling stand according to the invention Fig.2 shows the pack unit Fig.3 shows the bearing structure means Fig.4 gives a variant of the unit of Fig.2 Fig.5 shows a diagram of the vertical adjustment of the rolls and the control of the extensions Fig. 6 shows half a stand cut away vertically along an adjustment cotter means Fig. 7 gives an upright lengthwise section of the stand .Fig.8 shows the means upholding the rolls and the clamping means Fig.9 gives a variant of Fig.8 . Fig.I0 shows the variant of Fig.9 along the section AA . Fig.II gives a ftont diagrantic vie of the means for si multaneous anchoring and releasing of the extensions . Fig.I2 gives a detail of Fig. II according to a horizontal section Fig.I3 shows a variant of Figs. 8 9 . Fig.I4 shows a stand vith vertical rolls according to the invention. . With reference to the figures, the same warts or parts .performing the same functions bear the same reference numbers.. A plurality of the figures shots a horizontal stand, . b t the latter can be embodied in a vertical form, as in .Fig.I4. In the tables we have the following.. Fig.I shows a two high stand 20 in a stationary rolling ine, consisting of a pack unit 21 and structural bearing means 22. The structural bearing means 22 comprise the basic frame 24, which supports and guides the vertical and length wise positioning means, vihich can be anchored to the support . ing and guiding base 24 with clamps 26 actuated mechanically or hydraulically in a knovin manner.On the vertical and lengthwise positioning means 23 are envisaged the groups 25 which, in our example, contain the means upholding the rolls 34 134 and the means to adjust the rolls 88. Of the four standards 34 which rise above the vertical and lengthwise positioning means 23, one pair I34 has up right guides whereas the other pair 234 has a flat guiding surface.. The two standards I34 include some guides 35 which cooperate with the grooves 32 present in the upper and loner housings 28, whereas the upper and lower housings 27 have smooth sides so as to be suitable for cooperating with the ,pair of standards 234. The guides 35 and grooves 32 constit . ute the lengthwise positioning and guide means 87 present in one pair of standards 134 and in one pair of housings 28. The rolls 29 are located between the housings 27 28 and are upheld and positioned thereby. One or more visual means 33 may be present on housing so as to read the value of the adjustment.. As indicated hereinafter, means 30 to support and po position the rolling equipment are envisaged as being between the housings I27 and 128. The screw means 31 can be used for the vertical adjustment of said means 30.. For the actuation of the means located in 25 that po position the rolls vertically, the h nivlheel 60 or motor means or geared motor ra eans not sllorln here can be used but are not relevant to the purposes of the invention. The guides 35 integral ith the standards I24 cooperate . with the grooves 32 said guides 35 have length vhich is advantageously less than that of the grooves 32, so that the swinging means 39 can be fitted. Said means 39 for swing ing the housings 28 and 128 consist of cotter means here consisting of an adjustable screw and of a rounded guide block 41. The guide block 41 can protrude into the groove 32 or caui be inserted at least partially into a suitable seating machined in the housing beside the groove 32. The guide 35 is introduced between the cotter means 40 and the guide block 4I. The cotter means 40 and guide block 41 lie on a plane passing through the axis of the roll For the lengthwise positioning o the two rolls 29 I29, so as to mske their gr oves mate together, there are employ ed the lengthwise positioning means and means for axial ad justment of the upper roll 36, which act in our example on the upper roll 29. Said positioning means 36 can be actuated with the handwheels 37 and 38, as will be seen better here inafter. The upper housings 28 and 27 include suitable eyelets 42 for attachment to lifting means.The means 30 for supporting and positioning the rolling equipment can also be installed on auxiliary supporting and clamping menus 43, as can be seen in the example of Fig. 4. Said auxiliary supporting and clamping means 43 are anchored in a middle position, in cooperation with the protect ive sleeves 46, between the upper 27 28 and lower 127 128 housings. Said supporting means 43 have an offshoot 44 that extends inwards between the housings with a guide onto which . the means 30 are secured.The adjustment means 31 can be of the type of Fig.2 or of Fig.4 or of any other desired type. In the variant of Pig.4 the supporting means 43 have a suitable projecting ridge 45, which cooperates with a slid ing means 47 actuated in our example by the jack 48 solidly fixed to a standard 34, so as to form the means 49 clamping the pack unit 21 when the latter has been inserted into the bearing structure means 21. Fig.5 shows diagrammátically the means for adjusting 88 the rolls 29 and the drive system employing extensions 56. By acting on the lever 60 or on the motorized means that replaces it or integrates it, the shaft 50 is made to rotate in the required direction and the worm screws 5I I5I are thus set in rotation. The possible presence of an intermediate joint which can be introduced or removed as wished and which is placed between the two worm screws 51 1 51 enables the extent of adjustment to be increased. The worm screws 5I I5I actuate the toothed wheels 52I52 that set the shafts 53 I53 in rotation. When the pack unit 21 is installed, the shafts 53 153 are connected to the adjustment axles 54 154, which comprise the screws 55 I55. Said screws 55 I55 cooperate with threaded means 59 in the housings 27 28 so as to position the latter.Instead of the aforesaid intermediate joint, the system of Fig.7 can be embodied wherein the shaft 50 passes inside the shaft I50, and both shafts can be connected together with the pin 260 which connects the crank 60 to the disk I60If the crank 60 and disk 160 are connected, the two screws ,5I I5I v ork together otherwise only the screw I5I wors. s. The joint 360 can be envisaged if it is wished to motor ise the shaft 50, that is to say, if it is wished to fit a drive group to obviate use of the crank 60. As can be seen in Fig.7, the housing 27 28 are connected ,ed by stays with pins 58.. To adjust or position the roll 29 lengthwise in respect of the lower roll 129, the handwheel 38 is slackened off, so that the ring nut controlled thereby unlocks the anchor .age ring nut 62 controlled by the handwheel 37 next, the handwheel 37 is operated, and the ring nut 62 is moved backwards or forwards, cooperating thereby with the fixed ring.nut I62 solidly secured to the housing 28, which draws with itself the roll 29 in a knows manner, namely by drawing a bearing solidly fixed axially to the roll 29. When the roll 29 has been positioned, the ring nut of the handwheel is re clamped. As said earlier, motion is taken from the toothed wheels 52 to tum the shafts 55. Between the toothed wheel 52 and. shaft 55 there is a connecting joint, the whole being con tained in the means 25, which also contain the clamping means 73 in the example of Fig.8. The joint consists of frontal joint 65 which permits the terminal portion 55 to mesh with the upper part of the shaft 53. The upper part of. the shaft 53 also comprises a housing within which is lodged the tapered alignment element 66. Below the tapered element ,66 there is the projection 67, which acts as a foot. The whole is contained within the means 25, which are covered during the working phase by the cover 63 solidly fixed to the shaft 55. The end portion of the shaft 55 has a recess or protru .sion 64, within which is lodged the tooth 69 that clamps the shaft 55 to the shaft 53 but permits the joint rotation of ,the shafts 55 and 53. The recess or protrusion 64 can be .stationary or rotating on the axle 54. The tooth 69 is retractable and is advantageously thrust elastically by the means 71 and can be operated by hand for instance, with the means 72 which also permit clamping or with the jack I72. The shaft 53 is advantageously bored axially 68 so as . to enable the upper seatings to be cleaned automatically. , Pig.9 includes two variants of Fig.8. In said variants, in Fig.9 the clamping means 69, being operated by means 272, 372 which in the example shove are jack means 83, act on the groove 64 present below the gear wheel 52. If fluid under pressure is delivered through I84, the chamber I85 is filled and the means 69 are clamped, whereas .if the fluid is sent through the duct 84, the chamber 85 is filled and the means 69 are unclamped. This is so because the plunger 86 is solidly fixed to the body 372 of the clamp ,ing means 69. With this system a more precise and accurate..alignment is obtained and the organs are less heavily stres sed.In the lay out shown in Fig.I3 the tooth 69 clamps the shaft 55 to the shaft 53 by means of a bush 264 containing a rolling bearing which permits the joint rotation of 55,52. and 53 through the frontal toothing 65. This solution chang es the sliding friction of 69 and 55 into rolling friction . when the stand is in a vertical position.. Fig.II and I2 shove the simultaneous uncoupling coupling means 89 of the extensions 56 156. A substaltially U shaped element 74 encloses the two extensions 56156 at their sides .and supports and positions them. The end part of the extensions 56 has a collar 75 which can be engaged in a swinging manner in the U shaped element 74 Fig.12 . The U shaped elements 74 can run on guides 81 or on other guides prearranged for the purpose and anchored to . the body 23. If the jack 80 is operated, the U shaped element 74 is brought towards the structure 23 or is taken away therefrom.. When it is taken away, the U shapea element 74 moves back . wards the collar 75, which drags with it the toothed sleeve 76, of which the spherical toothing is meshed with the sleeve 78 and allows the shaft 77 to swing within a certain angle in respect of the axis of the roll 29. The sleeve 76, when it withdraws, takes with it the sleeve 78 as well, and when the peripheral toothing of the sleeve 78 becomes disengaged from the toothing on the ring 79 mounted on the roll 29, the extension is free. The reverse operation takes place during reinstallation.Instead of the jack 80 a screw mechanism 180 can be envis aged or another mechanism deemed suitable for the purpose and more satisfactory for the specific task. To dismantle the pack unit 21, steps are taken to dismantle the extensions 56 156 next, the housings 27 127 28128 are opened slightly and a desired distancing means is introduced within them then the housings themselves are reclosed until said distancing means is gripped. Then the blocks 69 or 49 are freed and the pack unit 21 can be with drawn. ViIen the housings are to be dismantled, they can be withdrawn sideays owing to the pre arranged dimensions of the design. We have described improvements here and have shown some solutions which can be adopted as examples. However, the pr portions and sizes can be varied, and it is also possible to dd, remove, integrate o replace parts one or more of the proposed improvements can be adopted, zs also can equi valent solutions, etc. These and other variants are possible for a technician in this field.